

THE HOUSE
J2S-F
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OP
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
WHO IS MY ENEMY ? —PAGE 20
“The Bulletin.” Vol. 75—No. 3880
Wednesday, June 23,1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
FROM SOUTHAMPTON THE
PILGRIM FATHERS
LEFT THEIR ADVENTURING
IN the shadow of Southampton’s ancient
waiis stands this graceful monument
which records the fact that it was from
the near-by West Quay on the 15th
August, 1620, that the small company
of Pilgrim Fathers embarked in the May-
flower to found the new England States
of America. The monument by R. M.
Lucas is surmounted by a replica of the
Mayflower and was erected by the
citizens of Southampton in 1912.
The old walls, a portion of which can
be seen in the above picture, are part
of Southampton's proud history. They
were originally built in Saxon times;
re-built and improved in the 10th century,
they extend about one and a quarter miles
in circumference. The famous Bargate
still dominates the main street of
Southampton ; West Gate and Bridewell
Gate are other notable features of the
wall which at one point has three stone
cannon balls embedded in the structure;
these were among many which were
dredged from the river where they were
dropped, apparently from the fleet of
ships which were loading there for the
expeditions which fought at Crecy and
Agincourt.
Throughout the centuries commerce
has flourished at Southampton whose
men have a great seafaring tradition and
they have taken a large share in the
development of the Empire. Many of
her citizens speak with pride of their
relations overseas and recall how, in
times of war, they have returned to give
their services in the fight for freedom.
During the D-dqy period of the Second
World War, thousands of vessels were to
be seen on Southampton Water. With
deafening roar and to the accompaniment
of frequently wailing sirens and the ratt-
ling of flying-bombs, ceaseless streams
of troops, trucks, guns, jeeps, tanks and
all the accoutrements of modem war
swept through Southampton, converging
on the waterfronts which saw yet another
page of history being written.


WRITE FOR PROFIT
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Stndents
letters:—
"My earnings from.my writing total almost
£70.”- (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lOO/10/9.”
“1 have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I Shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
fd
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
■ ——CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To SIOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 1154) AGE.
The Red Page
MENDELSSOHN
If Philip Radcliffe’s study of Mendels-
sohn (Dent) in Dent’s Master-Musician
series edited by Eric Blom is a good
sample of the long list of studies in this
series, it must be a pretty good series;
as indeed, from earlier volumes reviewed
here, it seems.
There is an admirably terse life of the
composer; then a chapter-by-chapter
study of his works under the headings
of “chamber-music,” “symphonies,”
“concertos,” etc.; a chapter on his
general characteristics; a calendar of
events in his life ; a catalogue of his
works, arranged in sections (songs, operas,
incidental music, etc.) and with opus-
numbers ; a list of “personalia”—people
mentioned in the book with short notes
of who they were ; a bibliography and an
index. ,At their moderate price a library
of these studies is possible to the average
listener-to-music; and although the
studies of individual works are by no
means, exhaustive, the survey of the com-
plete field of a composer’s work should
be valuable to buyers of gramophone
records, etc.
Jacob Ludwig Felix Mendelssohn was
bom in 1809, son of a banker of Ham-
burg. His mother, a Saloman, was a
musician, an artist, and a student of
English, French, Italian and Greek. Her
brother was cursed and cast-off by his
mother when he turned Christian, calling
himself Bartholdy. Mendelssohn’s father
decided to bring his children up Chris-
tians, and they were all baptised Mendels-
sohn-Bartholdy. The mother and father
later became Christians too.
Felix and his sister Fanny studied piano,
violin and harmony; they were both
composing at eleven years of age; and
Felix had made his concert-debut in a
trio for piano and two horns at nine. He
wrote his “Andante and Rondo Capric-
cioso” at 15, and the “Midsummer
Night’s Dream” overture at 17. He must
be still the greatest prodigy since Mozart;
and Mr. Radcliffe makes a comparison
and a distinction:
With Mozart he had more in common
[than with Beethoven, whom he greatly
admired]; both developed early and had an
exceptionally fluent technique. Mendels-
sohn’s development was far less steady;
his early works contain things far more
imaginative and individual than anything
that Mozart wrote at the same age, but in
later years, though they do not show the
total decline that is sometimes imagined,
his inspiration was undoubtedly more fitful.
He could approach Mozart’s polish and
beauty, but he could not combine it in
Mozart’s unique way with a disturbingly
intense personal emotion.
Then again, the word “prig” twangs
here and there through Mr. Radcliffe’s
little symphony. Mendelssohn could
sing as beautifully as Mozart, but where
Mozart took his butterfly-net to an
eighteenth-century Cupid, Mendelssohn
preferred the wings of a dove ; and where
Mozart was satisfied to chronicle the
deplorable morals of his time in opera,
Mendelssohn preferred to lead the soul
towards pure, but somewhat chilly, per-
fection in oratorio.
The cloud of disapproval from which
Mendelssohn’s genius is now, perhaps,
emerging hovered also over Mozart’s for
some time after his death, Mr. Radcliffe
assures us. With Mozart, no doubt, it
was hard to believe that anything so
simple and easy could be great; but with
Mendelssohn this feeling is complicated
by the inability of our hardened times to
believe that virtue can produce anything
good in art.
Yet even our times must admit it; he
was virtuous, but great. “It seems hardly
to have aged at all,” says Mr. Radcliffe,
contrasting the violin-concerto with the
piano-concertos; and indeed there it
stands, beating off the attacks of critics of
generation after generation with its sheer
translucence. Prizes are awarded by the
critics of our times for profundity, for
novelty, for technical brilliance, for
research into tradition. The one prize
they are unlikely to offer is for clarity—
but that is awarded again and again by
the public, and most especially to
Mendelssohn.
Mendelssohn knew Goethe; the young
genius and the old got on very well to-
gether. He also knew Victoria and
Albert;
Socially, the climax of this stay in Eng-
land [1842] was the visit to Buckingham
Palace, of which Felix wrote a charming
account to his mother. Of course there was
music; Mr. Mendelssohn was led to the
organ and played “How lovely are the
Messengers,” from “St. Paul” with Prince
Albert manipulating the stops. Then the
Queen sang; she produced Felix’s first set
of songs and, as luck would have it, chose
to sing “Italien,” which was not his com-
position but one of the songs by Fanny
[his sister] that he had included in the set.
“Then I was obliged to confess,” Men-
delssohn wrote, “that Fanny had written
the song and to beg her to sing one of
my own also. If I would give her plenty of
help she would gladly try, she said, and
then she sang the ‘Pilgerspruch,’ ‘Las dich
nur,’ really quite faultlessly, and with
charming feeling and expression.”
Then the Prince Consort sang the “Ernte-
lied” from the same set, and finally Felix
improvised with great success, introducing
themes from most of the pieces of music
that had just been performed. Later he
obtained permission to dedicate the “Scot-
tish” symphony to the Queen.
The other scene which most stands out
from this record of endless effort and
comings-and-goings all over Europe is of
the first performance of his operetta
“Son and Stranger,” written to celebrate
his parents’ silver wedding, a “wholly
delightful little work,” says Mr. Radcliffe,
“that should be better known”:
The part of Schulz was written for
Wilhelm Hensel, now married to Fanny; as
he was tone-deaf the part was written on
one note only, which, however, he failed
to find at the first performance on 26th
December [1829], despite the fact that,
according to Devrient, “it was blown and
whistled to him on every side.” Shortly
before the performance there was a disturb-
ing incident: Devrient, who was to sing
the chief baritone part, was summoned to a
concert at the Crown Prince’s, which
threatened to prevent him from returning
in time for the performance of the operetta.
This threw Felix into a state of almost
hysterical agitation, and he alarmed the
company by beginning to talk incoherently,
in English, and only recovered after twelve
hours’ sleep.
Aged 20; very truly Mr. Radcliffe
says:
But there is one quality in his music that
seems rather to stand aside from his daily
life; it is what Professor Gerald Abraham
has described as “the sweet Virgilian
purity of his idyllic passages.”
Braddon Novel
Russell Braddon, the Australian whose
prison-camp book, The Naked Island,
was one of the most talked-about of the
World War 11 books, has now produced
a curious novel, Those in Peril (Hutchin-
son), devoted, not to those in peril on the
sea, but to young seamen in peril ashore.
It hasn’t taken him long in Great
Britain to understand thoroughly a Glas-
wegian boy, farmed-out from an orphan-
age to a fisherman’s widow. The child
grows up, taking a great variety of odd
jobs in his ’teens; bellboy, switchboard-
operator, in hotels, helper in a bakery,
can-boy in a quarry, chorister in a boys’
choir doing theatrical circuits—through
all of which Braddon follows him know-
ledgably; the point being that he could
have succeeded at any of these jobs, with
his clear, innocent eye on the main
chance ; but none really mattered to him.
Next he follows his earliest wish to go
to sea, on a trawler ; and here Braddon
is very good on his tough young Aber-
deen shipmates’ head-fighting methods —
“putting the head across” a man—hold-
ing a man by his shoulders or lapels and
bashing his face in with the front of
your head.
The hero is next shown gaining his
highest ambition: entering the Navy as
a stoker ; and he is shown as contented
and happy in the Navy until, at the sug-
gestion of his messmates, he gets the
padre to write to the authorities to find
out where his parents are. When the
padre breaks the news that his mother’s
husband did not acknowledge him as his
son, and that his mother has since be-
come a prostitute, the hero cuts loose,
and on his first long leave back in Eng-
land, deserts.
From here on, Braddon puts Willie
through the hoops of London’s under-
world; the grimy underworld of the
tramp and fugitive. He is seen dealing
with razormen attacking him for the £2O
he is taking to pay for faked identity-
papers, cadging free drinks, pretending
to promise favors to seedy gentlemen
who buy him drinks and invite him home
to their flats, and knocking them out
and stealing their possessions when he
gets there. Taken by the police and put
back in the Navy, he deserts again and
again.
But the continued friendship of a fat
old innkeeper and the love of a girl he
meets back at a dance in Aberdeen fin-
ally straighten him out; he gets out of
the Navy by falsely confessing that he
is bi-sexual, the novel leaves him
heading for marriage and a return to the
sea.
A more experienced novelist would
have varied the straight line of this nar-
ration, and shown less sympathy for the
main character, a sympathy which is con-
fessed propaganda for better treatment of
boys from bad homes or without parents:
but as a study of such a boy and what
makes him tick it is unexceptionable and
it makes up for its lack of novelistic in-
cident with its presentation of contem-
porary British low-life, carefully ob-
served ; and with one first-class story—
the South African negro, arrested for
crossing the street against a red light,
who explained that he had thought the
green lights were for white pedestrians
only.
“Gentleman Jim”
James J. Corbett’s The Roar of the
Crowd (Phoenix House), a reprint of the
book that came out in 1925, has, of
course, historico-sporting interest. Cor-
bett, at one,time or another, fought just
about everyone who was anyone in his
day—a fairly long one —except the Aus-
tralian Frank Slavin. A few names from
that list is a roll-call out of the past;
Joe Choinyski, Jake Kilrain, Peter Jack-
son, Charley Mitchell, John L. Sullivan,
Bob Fitzsimmons, Tom Sharkey, Jef-
fries. . .
In The Roar of the Crowd Corbett’s
fights are described in some detail; go-
ing back to the inevitable “boy at
school” and other obscure champions.
Of the more famous fights, such as the
ones with Sullivan, Fitzsimmons and
Jeffries, there is the interest of comparing
the account of a principal with the
versions that have come down to us.
There are, too, severely practical com-
ments on technique, training and the like.
Odd bits of information, such as the
comment that under the old rules a
skilful fighter could fight a thousand
rounds with less fatigue than a modern
fighter would experience from a 20-round
bout; and the scouting of the idea that
a heavy man, by “lying-on” his lighter
opponent, necessarily tires him. Corbett
says that Jeffries did this to him. But
that wasn’t why he was beaten. He was
knocked out when he felt fresh and con-
fident, and for that, he says, there were
various good and reasonable explanations,
but they all boil down to the fact that he
didn’t get out of the way.
The book has another interest —what
may be loosely called a human one —
coming from closely-woven components
of realism and color. There is the
authentic charm and color of the period
arid, securely linked to it, the background
of family-life. Corbett’s parents were
Irish immigrants, poor, but intensely
proud of their son’s rise in status to the
position of a bank-clerk. There were 10
children, and parental authority was
real enough to keep Corbett an amateur
after he had acquired a considerable local
fame as a pugilist; and, merging with
this, there is the larger background of a
frugal, thriving, lusty Irish-Americanism
with, as its most exuberant symbol, the
great John L. Sullivan. Which brings in
the portraits of contemporaries.
In a foreword to the 1925 edition
Robert Gordon Anderson wrote of
“his story, as he told it to me.” This
seems to lay a vulgar ghost that com-
monly troubles the readers of books by
“names.” Because, obviously, by frankly
admitting his existence, a ghost-writer
ceases to be one and materialises into a
literary collaborator. Everyone feels
happier, because it is, after all, a bit
much to expect of a man that he should
be a champion writer as well as a cham-
pion boxer; or even a competent one.
He may have literary leanings (who
hasn’t?), but this isn’t the same thing.
Gene Tunney indulged in a literary cor-
respondence with George Bernard Shaw,
and even —it is said —exposed a newborn
novel to that terrifying critic. But, car-
ried to such lengths, an element of snob-
bery may be suspected in the relationship,
on both sides. It isn’t likely a man could
find time to master two such exacting
trades. Or, if he had the time (which
seems to presuppose either a life-sentence
in jail, or money), there seems no earthly
reason why he should want to.
Not that The Roar of the Crowd is a
masterpiece. It’s the story of a boxer,
his rise to the position of champion of
the world, his defeat and professional
decline. But it is head-and-shoulders
above the books of its kind that came
tumbling after it. They still tumble, in
many-colored jackets, from the busy
presses ; and most of them have a strong
smell of scissors-and-paste.
In The Roar of the Crowd there is
evidence of genuine collaboration, in the
literary sense: and this, at its best, is no
easy task. The ability to clothe the living
thought in appropriate words, without
losing the idiom, to interpret character,
is itself a form of creation, and a respect-
able one. But both sides must contribute
something. The thought must be there in
the first place.
Taken all round, it is an extraordinary
and interesting book, with qualities of
realism that place it in a class of its own.
Fights, and fighters, are the main subject;
and some taste for the subject is necessary
for full enjoyment. But, this boon
granted, it would be a fit companion on
the bookshelf for the English classics on
prize-fighting; somewhere near Hazlitt’s
and Thackeray’s descriptions, for in-
stance, and within shoulder-distance of
the “Fanning Tinman” in Lavengro.
Reviewed Briefly
Lost Splendour: Prince Felix Youssou-
pbff (Cape). Such smashing headlines
were made by Felix when, first, he
assassinated Rasputin—“executed” is the
word he and his co-killers prefer —and
next when he sued for defamation the
studio which included him in the film
about the Mad Monk, that this, his auto-
biography, has about it something of the
anticlimax which goes with the disinter-
ring of old bones. Nonetheless, unham-
pered by any reticences, evidently very
well pleased with his aristocratic status
(which confesses a dash of illegitimacy
for which , Frederick William IV of
Prussia is credited and thanked), the
Prince tells a fascinating story of the
nobility of Russia (no one else counted!)
in its glamorous days of high-living, shal-
low thinking, vast riches vulgarly
flaunted and blood-stained callousness all
hard to fit in with modern times. Felix
was very much part of his period. His
father was Governor-General of Mos-
cow, his mother important enough to
criticise the last Tsarina to her face, and
Felix “married royal,” cousin-cloSe to
our own Royal Family, both Mountbat-
ten and Windsor. Youssoupoff promises
a Vol. II covering his post-exile (from
1919) life which will ring more realis-
tically in 1954.
# % *
Murder in Haste: Heather Gardiner
(Hutchinson). A second thriller by the
young former bookshop-proprietor of
Perth, now in England, this time set in
Sydney, where the narrator, a woman-
social-columnist, discovers a mysterious
girl-migrant from England dead in the
home of one of Sydney’s best families.
The murderer may be: the ageing head
of the family; his beautiful, too-young
and too-roving-eyed second wife; his en-
gaged daughter ; her medical fiance ; their
interior-decorator friend ; or the mysteri-
ous and handsome young man who sinis-
terly shadowed the victim when the nar-
rator first saw her in a coffee-shop. Once
again the model for Miss Gardiner’s
detection is the woman-impregnated
atmosphere of Mignon Eberhart, full of
horrible moments with the lights out; all
the men hovering around in their soli-
citous and deceitful way; and there is
even an attempt to drown the heroine in
the surf.
♦ » * •
Land of the Niamoo : Marcel le Roy
(Barker). Translated from the French, this
is a travelogue of Upper Guinea, the
Ivory Coast and Liberia by a French
mining-engineer who took special notice
of the natives, describing an exorcising
ceremony in which the women sing “Hu-
ho on the men!” after one has died in
childbirth, a rare occasion; a woman-
chief and her ladies-in-waiting; an ex-
sergeant-major of the French Foreign
Legion who has come back to live, a
naked negro, among his tribe ; and
especially the child-dancers of Liberia,
members of troupes of wandering vaude-
villians: there is a photograph of them,
two little girls performing, the others
standing-by, their hands on their hips,
smiling with pretended interest at the
other children’s act, exactly as troupes of
tumblers and contortionists do on our
variety-stages. There are many plates,
very good and very frank.


#
wcehly news
of activities ,
values and advantages from Anthony Horderns 9
TRY THESE
SERVICES
use our
convenient
Lay-by
Service
It’s a wonderful help
when special bargains are
being offered. Just a small
deposit secures the goods
for you, then pay the
balance off in convenient
monthly payments.
Country customers, too,
can lay-by, just by for-
warding us the deposit
(4/- in the £) . We’ll
reserve whatever you want
by monthly payments till
finalised. Second Floor.
at your
Service our
Catering
Staff!
If you’ve a party, wed-
ding reception or cele-
bration, our catering ex-
perts will arrange every-
thing for you . . . food
decorations and cutlery.
We’ll lend our cutlery,
crockery and glassware
for that special occasion
—the charges are very
moderate. Ring M 2401.
Dial
M 2401
ash for
Copyright
for service
T.0.P.5., our Telephone
Orders and Personal
Shopping Service, is the
easy, modern way to shop.
Specially instituted for
the benefit of our cus-
tomers who for various
reasons\ find it inconven-
ient to come to town,
T.O.P.S. is open from
8.30 a.m. every day,
Monday to Saturday.
Forget-me-not
A special service instituted
by T.O.P.S. to help you
remember those easily
forgotten anniversaries,
birthdays, etc. Just ring
M 2401 and let T.O.P.S.
register it so that they
can ring you and remind
you in plenty of time
next year.
T.O.P.S
m
N'"
mm.
’ ::3&S8888&
I i: <
f MM
m
t> ■:•. f
wm
- }**(& *
mmMMrnM
m
m
\
m
IS' ’.«? '
i ...... \
/ <s
■ \
Wmrn
m
Our
beautiful
fimtomniirarv Shop
is a harem for
1_
f
Xf you’re dreaming of a home furnished in the modern manner with tasteful, "glossy magazine-
pieces that can lift a home right out of the ordinary without lifting the budget sky high
... our wonderful CONTEMPORARY SHOP can make those dreams come true. High
above the street, indeed high above the usual standard of furniture show-rooms, this
ultra-smart shop within a shop-the CONTEMPORARY SHOP-was specially designed
for your convenience along sth Avenue lines by our own furniture designers. Here,
in this ultra smart shop within a shop, is every facility for you, the home planner, to select
furniture and furnishing with the help of our three experienced interior designers. Here, you will
-C^/v
see carpets, ceramics, accessories and stark little knick-knacks*
Here, too, you can seek guidance on how to plan a
colour scheme to suit your home and surroundings,
complete a half-furnished room or furnish a new home.
* . %
Come, bring your plans and problems in —let us help you
create an unusual and individual furnishing scheme!
Buy your home plans at our . . .
"Home Plans Bureau
v
Here you can choose a plan to suit your type ot land and to pander to your own particular tastes from
our wide range of at least 25 moderately priced plans all designed by well-known Sydney architec
Lh"th 5 copies of specifications for
6 gits. This includes any necessary ground level alterations.
d
fd
fdf
df
d
PHONE
T.O.P.S. (M 2401) FOR YOUR ORDER OR MAIL TO BOX 2712, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY,


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 23, 1954
VoL 75—No, 3880
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
A NATIONAL OUTLOOK NEEDED
When in his policy-speech last month the Prime
Minister spoke of the need for co-ordinating the
planning of public works he was giving official voice
to what many people have been saying for a long time,
and the proposal he made seemed to be one that
deserved to meet with general approval from all who
have the development of the Commonwealth at heart.
Mr. Menzies’s undertaking was:
We will therefore ask the States to co-operate in
the creation of a small advisory body of highly expert
persons to serve as a National Development Commis-
sion, acting in association with the Department of
National Development, to report to both Common-
wealth and States upon the economies and relative
importance of particular proposals. This will not
only influence public opinion and Government action
but will produce authoritative reports upon particular
projects, irrigation, power, laud-settlement, which
may well attract private enterprise both locally and
overseas.
In the absence of such a body, Australian de-
velopment may be actually hindered by election
?r° mi ,| Se f about specific local projects, made without
regard to any Australian pattern.
The least that could be expected in response to
that proposal was that the State Premiers would go
to the next Loan Council meeting with open minds on
the subject and prepared to discuss the Prime Minister’s
suggestion, but the Premiers of the two largest States
have already made it clear that their attitude will be
one of outright opposition.
Nothing more has been heard from the Prime
Minister regarding his plan, but a report from Canberra
which seems quite likely to be well founded, suggests
that the Government will take the line that although
it can t without the consent of the States dictate how
money raised by public loans shall be spent, it can
claim some say in the spending of money which it
advances out of its own revenues to supplement loan
funds. This seems indisputable, and can scarcely be
considered an infringement of State rights. Despite
their criticism of a few weeks ago, it is not likely that
the “Labor” Premiers will be too proud to swallow
their principles and prejudices and accept funds from
Federal revenue, in which case they will probably
agree to join in establishing a Development Committee
on that limited basis. This would at any rate be a
start.
Such a committee would have to consider not only
the priority of works listed by a State, but also the
relative importance, from a national viewpoint, of
rival schemes in various States. It might, for example,
have to decide whether an irrigation project in one
State was as important to the general development
of the Commonwealth as a similar project in another.
No doubt this would meet with much opposition, but
the principle is already established to a certain extent.
Only three States benefit directly from the Snowy
Mountains Scheme, yet all six contribute to its cost
through taxes. The Joint Coal Board is the result of
an agreement between Canberra and New South Wales,
but the Commonwealth’s share of the cost comes out of
taxes collected from the whole of Australia. No
direct benefit accrues to Queenslanders from the
East-West railway or to Tasmanians from the Port
Augusta-Alice Springs line, yet as taxpayers they
contributed to the initial cost and still help to bear
losses when incurred.
There are many such examples; it is impossible
to relate Commonwealth expenditure in any particular
area to the revenue collected in that area and no
attempt has ever been made to do so. Nor should it be.
Commonwealth money should be spent where it can
do the most good for Australia. At the present time
it is almost indisputable that this implies giving special
consideration to development schemes in the northern
part of the continent, where potentialities are great
but population scanty. There is nothing novel in this
suggestion. Less than three years ago the State leaders
were quite unanimous on the justice of it. At the
Premiers’ Conference in Canberra on August 16, 1951,
Premier Gair urged that in the interests of defence the
Commonwealth should liberally subsidise development
in “the vulnerable States of Queensland and West
Australia.”
Works in his own State which he thought might
be given special attention included the Tully Falls
hydroelectric scheme, the Burdekin irrigation project
and the Mareeba-Dimbulah irrigation scheme. He
was probably agreeably surprised at the acceptance, in
principle at any rate, of his proposition. Mr.
McDonald, then Premier of Victoria, said he quite
agreed that Queensland, unaided, could not develop
the State “as it should be developed for defence
purposes. He considered that “in the past we have
concentrated on the development of Victoria and
New South Wales, neglecting to a considerable degree
the development of our northern areas.”
All parties and all States are in agreement that an
empty North is a danger to the whole of Australia,
and a national policy aimed at developing and peopling
the territory “north of 28” should have the approval of
all but the most parochial-minded.
“Labor” in Dissolution
Labor” had a fine problem delivered on its doorstep
a * Co 2f erences in Melbourne and Sydney last week,
and the Federal leaders must look forward with little
enthusiasm to caucus meetings. It is clear,
apart from anything else, that the sectarian
issue is part of the explosive which is rending
the party in pieces, and that it must presently
be brought into the open. Everybody within the move-
ment knows exactly what was meant by Senator
Kennelly, the retiring Federal secretary of the party,
when he said at the Melbourne conference that the
industrial-groups were being used by outside
influences to dictate the policy of the Labor party ”
JJs provoked a heated outburst from a
Mr McMahon, the assistant-secretary of the party,
who said that “he did not mind Communists getting
down in the industrial gutter, but he did not expect to
find a leading member of the Labor party getting down
with them.”
The fight is now on not only between the industrial-
groups and the Communists, but between the industrial-
groups (backed by the Keon group) and the con-
trollers of the party in Victoria, with a somewhat
similar schism in being in N. S. Wales, where the
A.W.U., least affected at any time by Communist
infiltration, withdrew its heads from the A.L.P.
executive and had to be placated by a resolution moved
by the A.L.P. general secretary, which enjoined the
industrial-groups not to interfere in the affairs of the
A.L.P.-controlled unions unless asked to do so by the
unions themselves.
When the next Triennial Conference of Federal
“Labor” meets the industrial-group issue will be
inescapable, and discussion will centre round the status
of the groups as political entities and the need for a
Federal policy, With little Napoleons like Mr. Laurie
Short, who has followed the example of his Red pre-
decessor in the secretaryship of the Ironworkers and
begun to tour the world and dictate foreign policy to
the nation, in the field it is inevitable that
some of the industrial-group leaders should
develop political ambitions, and the result seems likely,
before next election, to produce a flourishing trade in
Parliamentary tombstones both in the Federal and
State caucuses.
Meantime newer issues will pave the way for a
fresh type of leadership, the present repositories of
Federal authority within the party having agreed
obligingly to tear each other to political pieces to make
way for their industrial adversaries.
What is taking place in Victoria, the determinative
State in Federal “Labor” politics, is the real indicator
of the immediate trends as is the industrial-group row
of the longer term probabilities. In Victoria the
electors in general have already sensed “Labor’s”
position and indicated it in the Federal-election vote
which, in that State, was most unfavorable to the party
by comparison with other States.
In the A.L.P. conference last week in Melbourne
the faction fights to destruction were a stage ahead of
those in N. S. Wales, where only the preliminaries were
being fought by the union wing, and politicians were
still able to keep in the background. In Victoria,
however, the battle seems to have reached the semi-
finals. There Senator Kennelly, the retiring Federal
secretary and a member of Parliament, was at open
war with “Labor” members of caucus. Peters, M.P.,
described his statement that “Labor would be haunted
for years by its election policy” as “utter treachery.”
And utter treachery to Dr. Evatt and Mr. Calwell, in
particular, it was indeed, since the Senator went so far
as to ask his leaders to prove to him how the means-
test could be abolished without increasing taxation and
risking inflation. He, in fact, tore the ground completely
from under the feet of the whole of “Labor’s” Federal
fiscal policy, and representations as presented as stated
to the electors during the campaign by the party’s
leaders. And when this was combined with an attack
on the intolerance of Mr. Calwell —who had earlier
regretted that another M.P., Mr. Crean, should
criticise the party leadership—in seeking to suppress
free opinion within the party, it became not merely
heresy but open insurrection.
Difference even developed between Mr. Calwell
and Senator Kennelly as to whether caucus had indeed
endorsed the abolition of the means-test; and Mr.
Crean’s vigorous disclaimer that he had helped to
work out the cost of means-test abolition was scarcely
likely to produce harmony in future relationships.
The prize for the best joke of the two A.L.P.
conferences goes to D. Lovegrove, the erstwhile-
Communist head of the Melbourne political industrial
wing, who “denied strongly that there were any splits
in the Labor movement in Victoria.”
There are no more than there are in N. S. Wales,
where there are none —only widening chasms caused
by sectarianism, differences over the liquor question,
dissatisfaction with the Evatt policy and growing
distaste for the shabbiness of the Cahill regime, with its
constant flouting of public opinion and its constant
failure to investigate the gravest kind of charges against
the police.
If the managers of the Canberra caucus this year
decide to let out some seating in the caucus-room on
meetings-days to the John Wren stadium interests there
should be money in the project.
Manganese Wanted, Too
“Dowl” : Prospectors for uranium, or indeed all
prospectors and country folk, could well keep
manganese in the forefront of their minds. Manganese
—atomic symbol Mn —is an essential element in the
manufacture of iron and steel, and it has not yet been
found in any great quantity in Australia.
The first iron ore used at Lithgow in a hot-blast
furnace was procured from Carcoar (N.S.W.) in 1907.
At first it contained a convenient proportion of Mn,
but the quarry had not progressed far in 1908 when
the overall proportion suddenly increased to such an
extent as to make the pig-iron unsuitable for foundries.
In those days the iron was used mostly for castings, in
contrast with its preponderating use later for con-
version to steel, for which a Mn content of around
2 per cent, is desirable.
The situation was critical, because no analytical
method of estimating the proportion of Mn in iron
ore was known which was rapid enough for practical
utility in a hand-to-mouth quarry. However, an
adequate method was devised under the pressure of
necessity at an all-night laboratory vigil, with satisfac-
tion to the deviser similar to that derived from major
coups of operators in different fields. Within a few days
a bush laboratory was fulfilling its purpose at Carcoar.
Incidentally, the young Australian put in charge of
that shack of science went later to learn steelmaking
in England, and returned to move up to the top of the
ladder at the Newcastle steelworks founded seven years
after his debut at Carcoar.
Iron ore devoid of Mn was obtained from 1910
to 1916 from Tallewang (N.S.W.), and this offset the
excess in the Carcoar ore. When Carcoar was worked
out in 1923 it has given less than a million tons, and
Tallewang’s tally, when exhausted in 1926, was half as
much.
The next notable episode in the Mn story was in
1915, when ferro-manganese containing about 80 per
cent, of Mn, an indispensable adjunct of the ferrous
industry, became unprocurable from overseas because
of the war. G. and C. Hoskins, Ltd. (to become
Hoskins Iron and Steel Co., Ltd., in 1919, and Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel, Ltd., in 1928), pioneered its
production, by this time having a second blast-furnace,
and being in a position to use the older furnace for
the purpose before it was put off for relining. The
ferro-manganese was of high quality, and its produc-
tion was repeated at intervals thereafter either at
Lithgow, Port Kembla or Newcastle, so that since 1915
Australia has been independent of imports of this
ferro-alloy. The earlier campaigns of its production
entailed busy searching for native Mn ore, another
emergency enforced by necessity, and some odd deals
ensued, since the ore often occurs capriciously under-
ground with little evidence on the surface. Thus
£5OOO was paid for a good-looking deposit at
Danglemah, from which only a truckful or so of ore
was obtained, whereas at a very small fraction of that
cost the Grenfell show was acquired, which, despite its
almost negligible area of outcrop, opened up to yield
requirements for many years. Eventually Grenfell and
one or two smaller shows petered out, and Mn ore was
imported.
Returning to the iron-ore aspect, it has been seen
that Carcoar (1907 to 1923) was rather overendowed
with Mn, and Tallewang (1910 to 1926) had none.
Whyalla (South Australia) came on the scene for the
Newcastle works in 1915, and Cadia (N.S.W.), for
Lithgow in 1918. Whyalla, as well as having tonnage
beside which the N.S.W. ores had mere poundage, so
to speak, has an excellent but heterogeneous Mn
content. Every required type of iron ore, high or low
in Mn, is provided there by expert classification. When
the Cadia ore, free from Mn, lost the complemental
Carcoar ore in 1923, recourse was had for a while to
admixture of manganiferous ores midway between iron
and manganese ores, from sundry small shows in the
western districts. This practice was soon superseded
as the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. made available to
Lithgow supplies of Whyalla ore containing an
appropriate proportion of Mn for mixing with the
Cadia ore, and the arrangement continued until 1928,
when A. I. and S. transferred to Port Kembla, and
Cadia was closed. Thenceforth the Port Kembla
furnaces were fed with Whyalla ore.
There was a period, from 1941 to 1944, when the
loss of ore-ships by enemy action compelled the
industry to augment its ore-supplies by recourse to
N.S.W. deposits, to the amount of more than one-
and-a-third-million tons brought to the two steelworks
by rail.
The merger with B.H.P. in 1935 relieved
the anxieties of A. I. and S. about iron-ore
supplies, and was of benefit to the industry and the
nation. The A.I.S. iron-ore leases at Yampi (W.A.),
came into the pool, and shipments have been coming
to the ironmaking ports from there in recent years
for use in minor proportions with the Whyalla ore.
The Yampi ore doesn’t contain Mn, and it appears
that Australia will continue to depend on Whyalla for
iron ore furnished with Mn until further notice.
Fortunately there is enough rich ore at Whyalla for a
long time. The day will come when native ores not
yet found, or poorer ores already known, will come
into the picture. No one should neglect an opportunity
to discover a broken or unbroken hill of iron ore in
Australian territory, or a substantial occurrence of the
black ore which gives a black streak and should
contain upwards of 70 per cent, of the oxides of Mn,
equivalent to about 50 per cent, of Mn.


LA RONDE


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Budget and Tax-cuts
When the new Federal Parliament opens
its first session will be the Budget session.
In his policy speech Mr. Menzies stressed
that it was not a Budget speech, but his
enunciated policy forecast tax-reductions.
Six days before the House of Representa-
tives election Mr. Menzies explained the
position:
The financial year has some weeks yet to
run. The accounts are not closed, nor
have next financial year’s estimates been
even roughly made up. Under these
circumstances, while a policy has been
pronounced, it would be irresponsible to
guess at a Budget simply to bid for votes.
In any event, Budgets should never be
announced in advance, for to do so would
be to cause serious interruption to normal
business and bring profits only to the
gamblers.
The extent of the tax-cuts we can make
will bre affected by what this year’s “surplus”
turns out to be, by the new estimates, by
the state of trade and confidence, and by a
careful selection of the taxes which it would
do the most good to reduce. That is why
we will consider such large items as income
tax, sales tax, excise, depreciation allowances
in the light of higher replacement costs,
and so on. That we will go to the proper
and possible limits in making our selection
and particular decisions, nobody, looking at
the past two years, need doubt.
This country is still in need of tax-
cuts, especially in regard to industry.
Australia is facing growing competition
from overseas producers and manufac-
turers, and taxes enter into costs, as
well as dulling incentives and inhibiting
capital investment. Personal taxation,
with another cut of 10 p.c. or thereabouts,
would not be so bad ; but company taxa-
tion by present methods and at present
rates has little to justify it. It has been
the practice in the past to “slug” the
“big companies” regardless of how many
small shareholders may own them; but
it is becoming increasingly clear that
companies, large and small, have the chief
responsibility for developing Australia,
and that much of what they earn is
ploughed-back into industry and is not
distributed to shareholders.
The Federal Government’s income-tax
receipts during 1954-55 will be based on
the income of companies, businesses and
land-men during the year now closing,
and, under the pay-as-you-earn system,
upon most salary- and wage-incomes for
1954-55. The Government is assured of
a large source of income tax in respect
of manufacturing industries and dis-
tributing enterprises during the coming
term, since the year now about to close
was the busiest on record. The wool-
cheque for the past season was also a
good one —about the same as last
year’s—and most other land indus-
tries fared well; the new financial year’s
tax will be based on these figures. But
during 1954-55, when these taxes have to
be paid, some of the land industries,
notably wheatgrowing, may find their
tax-assessments onerous, and could be in
need of help.
The Division of Industrial Develop-
ment, Canberra, has noted the record
manufacturing production of the present
year, but says the expansion is unlikely
to go on at the same rate during the new
financial year because of limited labor
supplies and growing competition from
imports. It forecast that “the past year’s
increase in total manufacturing output
may even-out on a high plateau, and will
probably not rise much further for the
time being.”
Assuming that the source of taxation
from secondary industry remains at
about the same level during 1954-55, the
Government can make its future tax-
plans with some assurance in respect of
this part of the economy. And if im-
ports continue to grow, as is generally
forecast, the revenue from Customs
duties should correspondingly increase.
But our capacity to import depends upon
our revenue from exports, and among
our exports wheat at the present time is
an uncertain item.
Wheat and defence could, in fact, be
the most upsetting factors in the Menzies-
Fadden Budget for 1954-55. In 1952-53
Australia exported wheat valued at £52
million and flour worth £37 million. The
figure for the present year will be a
little lower. But for 1954-55 Australia
is expected to have an unexportable
wheat surplus bigger than our usual
home-consumption requirements, and
world prices are on the decline. The
extent of this drop is not yet clear.
The wheat industry will deserve assist-
ance from the Australian consumer in
the event of any reduction of world prices
below Australian costs of production.
For about 15 years wheat for bread
and stock-feed in the Commonwealth has
been sold below world-parity prices, and
at one stage the Chifley Government was
selling wheat to New Zealand at below
the world price to help out its
fellow-Socialists. If the wheatgrower’s
income falls in the coming year
there will be a drop in his eventual tax-
able income, and, on the other side of the
Budget, an increase in expenditure
because of possible assistance to him. It
is unlikely, however, that the Govern-
ment’s obligation, at worst, would exceed
£2O million a year in this respect. But a
lower wheat cheque will affect many
dependent industries.
What additional defence problems will
arise out of the situation in Indo-China
it is difficult to visualise at this stage
because of the apparent disunity of the
major Western Powers over the same
question. It is possible that Australians
commitments will not exceed the £2OO
million budgeted for in the last Estim-
ates ; what they will amount to partly
depends upon what happens in Korea
also.
But if our defence obligations involve
us in an expenditure of more than £2OO
million during 1954-55, the extent of
tax-reductions may not be so great as
many people now hope.
Wheat
Wheat has become embarrassingly a
surplus world product. The surplus is
having political as well as economic reper-
cussions in the United States, Canada and
Australia.
Australia during the present season
harvested just on 200 million bushels.
Only in 1947-48, when 220 million
bushels was harvested, and 1949-50 (218
million bushels), have there been heavier
crops. The average yield of 18.6 bushels
an acre was only exceeded in 1952-53 ;
and, of course, the higher the yield per
acre the lower the average cost of cul-
tivation and harvesting.
Australia began the present wheat-
selling season with stocks of 37.7 million
bushels of wheat (including flour) on
hand. Consumption within Australia is
usually equivalent to about 75 million
bushels a year, and the surplus is exported.
In order to start next season clear of
stocks Commonwealth exports would
need to run to about 160 million bushels.
Last season our exports totalled 102
million bushels, and this season’s sales
look like being smaller, so that the carry-
over might be anything up to 100 million
bushels.
The position is similar in most pro-
ducing countries. Surplus has been
added to surplus since the end of the
1951-52 season, the current season be-
ginning with a world surplus of about
1000 million bushels, compared with about
600 million bushels two years earlier.
World stocks unsold at the end of July
this year will be bigger still, and in order
to induce sales of Canadian wheat the
Government in Ottawa has reduced the
export price. The U.S. Government has
done the same.
The International Wheat Agreement,
which allowed consuming countries to
buy wheat at below the soaring grain
prices of a few years back, expired in
1953, and a new one, with a minimum
price for Australian wheat of about 14s.
a bushel, f.o.b. (maximum 18s. 5d.),
has been drawn up. The new
agreement was signed by 41 import-
ing countries and four exporting coun-
tries. (It covers about two-fifths
of the world’s wheat trade.) The
United Kingdom withdrew from
the agreement. Australia’s export
quota is reduced from over 80 million
bushels to 48 million bushels. Previ-
ously wheat under the agreement was sold
at the maximum price of 16s. 6d, com-
pared with the Wheat Board’s basic
export price of 21s. 6d. for “free” wheat.
I.W.A. wheat and “free” wheat have
been virtually the same price for several
months. The world price started to fall
just over 12 months ago, and the Aus-
tralian export price was down to 15s, 9d.
in April, since when it has declined
further.
The home-consumption price of wheat
has been fixed at 14s. a bushel, or the
ruling I.W.A. price at the beginning of
the season if less than 145., but not less
than the cost of production. This cost
has been determined in Australia at
12s. 7d, a bushel, f.o.r. ports, for the
1953-54 season.
The world position is still not definite.
It may be some time before the price
position clears, but it seems certain that
there will be a surplus-wheat problem on
Australia’s hands before the end of 1954,
and it will involve both storage and
finance problems. The wheatgrower, be-
cause of the fact that he has provided
Australian consumers with grain well
below world parity for over a decade,
will be entitled to every reasonable aid
if he finds himself in serious difficulty.
Fortunately he has had several years of
prosperity in which to rehabilitate him-
self from his pre-war condition.
Cahill Gets His Orders
“I do not have to come before you, cap
in hand, and say, ‘Sorry! It just could not
be done’,” said Premier Cahill in a pas-
sage of his speech at the A.L.P. confer-
ence wherein he boasted that his Govern-
ment had “honored every undertaking.”
He was not referring, of course, to under-
takings given to the electors, but to those
given to previous A.L.P. conferences or
to the party executive. A more correct
way of putting it would have been to say
that he had carried out their instructions.
In the year his report covered, the most
important of these chores was the intro-
duction of compulsory unionism, a job
handed to him by the unions but to which
no reference had been made in his policy
speech. Less far-reaching, but just as
blatant a use of power for party pur-
poses, was the eleventh-hour change in
the system of voting for Sydney City
Council elections.
Cap in hand or heart in mouth, it
made little difference to the conference
delegates. They applauded Cahill heart-
ily, told him what a good fellow he was
and then, by way of proving their admira-
tion for his leadership, rapped him over
the knuckles and gave him a new set of in-
structions. These came in the form of reso-
lutions from the Industrial Committee,
which were adopted after debate. The
committee regretted that the liaison which
should exist between it and the Govern-
ment was non-existent, and it blamed the
Government because “the legislation
proposed by the Government is a direct
negation of everything for which the
trade-union movement stands.” The chief
items referred to here were Cahill’s ten-
tative suggestions for extending petrol-
trading hours and for handing over con-
trol of shopping hours to local-govern-
ment.
The strictures were a trifle unkind.
After all, Cahill had come to heel quickly
as soon as the unions concerned had
cracked the whip. Still, to make his
position quite clear, conference resolved
that it is the duty of an elected Gabor
Government to carry out the policy of the
A.L.P. as determined by conference; they
should not depart from that principle, as
it is contrary to the wishes of the Gabor
movement to vest in any other authority
the right to make laws and regulations
that are at present covered by the In-
dustrial Arbitration Act, the Factories and
Shops Act or Sunday Observance Act.
A further resolution was aimed at
ensuring that Ernie O’Dea’s Shop Assist-
ants’ Union did not lose its informers’
fees for pimping on breaches of the Shop-
ping Act. Indeed, the Government was
“instructed” to see that this privilege was
extended
to allow all unions to have the unrestricted
right to police and prosecute for breaches
of the Acts concerning their calling.
It seems quite clear that despite the
recommendations of the Industrial Com-
mission and the feeling of Cabinet there
will be no general extension of petrol-
selling hours and that local councils will
not be given power to regulate shopping-
hours within their boundaries.
Cahill may not have gone to the con-
ference with his cap in his hand, but he
certainly came away with his orders in
his pocket.
Who Can Lead "Labor 11 ?
“In the ACT”: Problems facing
“Labor” as a result of the failure of the
Evatt policy to bribe the electorate into
sufficient support go far deeper than the
possible struggle for leadership of the
Parliamentary party in Canberra. That
struggle is perhaps inevitable, with the
“Doc.” doing his best to forestall it by
declaring that the vote on May 29 was
a censure of the Menzies Government
and that “Labor” gained about 5 per
cent, overall —a fallacious proposition—
but it could be averted, simply by the
mutual jealousies of the factions which
comprise the caucus.
The real need in Australia appears to
be a restatement of “Labor” policy in
the light of the clearly-expressed opinions
of a great majority of Australians on
such aspects of it as nationalisation,
social services, home-ownership and the
like. The Parliament and the country
will be better off if the Opposition puts
its house in order, discards some dead
policy-wood (and perhaps a few dead-
heads in the process), and reaches agree-
ment on vital matters.
This is a task not merely for the “front”
men who are in Parliament, but for the
trade-union officials and others who do
so much of the talking at annual A.L.P.
conferences, and who are popularly sup-
posed to pull political strings from
obscure rooms in trades-halls. In the
process of restating Socialist policy in
terms which can be understood by Aus
tralians (new and old) in this modern
age, and which may prove acceptable to
a large segment of the community, there
could be opportunities for discovering
some new and dynamic leader who may
lead some sort of a national revival of the
party. This would be far better than the
unedifying spectacle of caucus struggle
at Canberra, with the old guard of Evatt
Calwell, McKenna and co. fighting with
backs to the wall against, say, Clyde
Cameron, Nelson Lemmon, Crean
Makin and Allan Fraser, with Bourke
of Fawkner collecting some kudos on
the sidelines by saying “I told you so.”
Certainly the “Labor” bunch to sit in
the new House does not seem to have
the makings of effective leadership
Lemmon may have the ability which
Chifley is supposed to have seen in him
but he won’t be popular if he tries to
muscle-in on top of more consistent seat-
holders, and Pollard and Clarey are both
feeling their advancing years. Evatt may
see his chance in all this, and he could
show real statesmanship by leading the
movement to find a leader and a policy
In some respects his situation resembles
that of Menzies in 1944, when the non-
Socialist Parliamentary parties were
divided and intriguing, and there were
a dozen splinter-groups outside Parlia-
ment. Menzies took the initiative in call-
ing a conference, framing a policy and
working to the point of exhaustion in
rallying State groups and getting a fine
crop of candidates selected. This bore
some fruit in 1946, and was triumphantly
successful in 1949, It is still the main-
stay of Liberalism.
Whether Evatt could or would do
something of the sort is open to question.
But if he does not, then some other
“Labor” man should make a move. Any
daggers, peashooters and sackcloth-and-
ashes should be put aside, and a vigor-
ous effort made to rally the different
brands of Socialists into a coherent group
which must avoid any temptation to fol-
low Communist policy at a distance, and
on the other hand seek to offer an alter-
native to the Liberals’ thrice-endorsed
policy. Here is the occasion. Where is
the man?
Sectarian Issues
“Mugga Way”: One of the reasons for
the decline and fall of “Labor” has cer-
tainly been the strong sectarian wedge
driven between the far-Left of the party
and the strongly Roman Catholic Right.
The issues raised under religious pressures
have influenced (and clouded) policy-
making and affected party activity 4n the
Parliaments and outside for more years
than the oldest member can remember,
and they are likely to play a major part
in whatever new set-up is devised by the
party bosses now.
Catholic Action is especially strong in
Victoria, and its influence among many
unions is considerable and growing. It
will be heard in caucus in future with
more emphasis, and Dr. Evatt, who has
tried to get the opposing “wings” to flap
together in some semblance of level flight,
is likely to find himself more tossed about
than ever.
“Labor” is the only party where the sec-
tarian issue obtrudes itself, stemming from
an ancient association of transplanted
Irish “rebels” with the early Australian
radicals, and it will be interesting to see
what influences get to work in the
inevitable moves to discover a new and
more acceptable policy on which to
rebuild, if possible, the poor remnants
of the former “Labor” stronghold.
A Maoriland Masterpiece
“D.E.”: Does anyone read Erehwon
nowadays? Maorilanders should, if only
for sentimental reasons, since Butler gave
his satirical romance a Maoriland setting
and wrote the first draft of it when a
South Island sheepfarmer, as he was for
five prosperous years. But it is worth
reading, and re-reading, for other than
sentimental reasons. It is a masterly
criticism of our machine-made civilisa-
tion, with uncannily prophetic passages
and startlingly modern touches.
In the daily papers there have been
accounts of the discovery of “thickly-
populated valleys, previously unknown,”
in the central west of New Guinea. The
discoverers “flew over rugged mountain
country in which ranges rise 12,000 ft.,
and valleys are 5000 ft. above sea-level;
in one were green rectangular fields en-
closed by hedges and trees, the whole
area being extensively cultivated.” A
contemporary parallel to Butler’s “dis-
covery” of Erehwon, except, of course.
(Continued on next page)


that he didn’t fly. After traversing his
ranges he “saw large pine forests and the
glitter of a noble river winding its way
upon the plains; also many villages and
hamlets,”
In our dailies also there was a warn-
ing to our machine-made civilisation in
its latest developments against recourse
to the cobalt-bomb. Said Sir George
Thomson, a Nobel Prize winner for
physics and chairman of Britain’s first
committee on atomic energy, employ-
ment of this frightful machine “would be
world-suicide, not war.” It is scarcely
too much to say that this is Butler over
again. When he imagined his land of
thinkers there was, of course, no cobalt-
hydrogen- or atom-bomb, nor any inter-
nal-combustion engine, but with the eye
of genius he perceived that the rapid in-
vention of and increasing dependence on
machines, in process of time possibly
developing a perverted consciousness,
would eventually force mankind to
choose between destroying machines and
being itself destroyed, as were the people
of Nagasaki and Hiroshima. In respect
of the machines we call bombs mankind
has to make that choice now.
“How many men at this hour are living
in bondage to their machines? How
many spent their whole lives in tending
them by night and day? Machines
have preyed upon man’s grovelling pre-
ference for his material over his spiritual
interests. They will only serve on con-
dition of being served, and that too upon
their own terms. The moment their
terms are not complied with they jib, and
either smash themselves and all they can
reach or refuse to work at all There
is probably no known machine which is
more than a prototype of future mech-
anical life. The present machines are
to the future as the early Saurians to
man. The largest of them will probably
greatly diminish in size.” All this would
be accepted as an acute and deeply-true
study of things and trends in 1954. Yet
it was placed before the British public
when Queen Victoria was still in middle
life. ,
Decidedly, Erehwon is a book to be
read for its style, which is brilliant, and
studied for its essential wisdom.
POLITICAL POINTS
State public servants in New South
Wales figured in the honors list this
month for the first time in a decade. No
doubt the Royal visit was the explana-
tion, but no one yet knows whether
Cahill had a permanent change of heart
or whether it is just a case of temporary
hypnosis induced by the Royal smile.
• •
On Monday Tasmanian “Labor” com-
pleted its 20th successive year in office.
A. G. Ogilvie became Premier on June
21, 1934, and led the Government for
five years. He was succeeded by E.
Dwyer-Gray, who handed over the reins
six months later to R. Cosgrove. That
was on December 18, 1939 ; Cosgrove has
led the Ministry ever since, except for a
couple of months at the beginning of
1948, when he stepped down for the
duration of a royal commission in
which he was personally involved, E.
Brooker was his stand-in for that period.
For the past five years “Labor’s” hold on
the Treasury benches has been rather
tenuous; party strengths, excluding the
Speaker, are equal, and an Independent
holds the balance of power. The next
five-yearly election is due in April, 1955.
• •
France’s 20th Government since the
war, under the Premiership of Mendes-
France, has taken office on unusual terms
—a promise to resign within a month if
it has not reached a settlement of the Indo-
China war. His plea is that France needs
peace in order to proceed with rehabilita-
tion. What it probably needs even more
is a revision of the system which gives the
country a new Government every few
months.
• •
The Gaullists are taking a more active
part in French affairs. Laniel’s Cabinet
of 38 included three Gaullists, and it was
the first time the party had consented to
join a coalition. Mendes-France has
increased their representation to four,
although his whole team comprises only
29. Gaullist portfolios include Defence,
Public Works, Reconstruction and a
Ministry for Tunisia and Morocco.
• •
Cahill announced that legislation was
being prepared to reform the liquor laws.
He didn’t give details, but the A.L.P.
conference promptly told him he was not
to extend hotel hours without a refer-
endum. There was no pretence of any
high-souled motive about the instruction ;
it was just that conference felt any other
move would be political suicide.
• •
Melbourne, the first Australian city to
have a drive-in cinema and a drive-in
bank, is now promised five more drive-in
theatres and a drive-in store. If this trend
continues legislators in Spring-street will
be expecting a drive-in Parliament House
with Government-supplied cars.
• •
•
The trouble which flared up at the
weekend in Guatemala has been smoulder-
ing since 1952, when the near-Communist
Arbenz Guzman Government expropri-
ated big landholdings—“big” meaning
anything over 667 acres —for redistribution
among the peasants and agricultural
laborers. Rebel forces have apparently
been organising in the neighboring
republics—Mexico, Honduras, Salvador
and Nicaragua—as well as in Guatemala
itself, and President Guzman doesn’t seem
able to count on much support from his
own Army.
Guatemala’s neighbors have not been
happy at the possibility of the republic be-
coming a Red base, and America has been
giving them arms under its foreign-aid
plan. Guzman has been getting arms
from Iron Curtain countries, and
Honduras and Nicaragua have expressed
fear of his intentions. In the circumstances
they can’t be expected to feel much
sympathy for their Red neighbor.
The Security Council was to meet on
Monday to consider Guatemalan charges
of aggression by her neighbors. The U.S.
State Department had already announced
that it regarded the incident as a rebellion
and not an invasion; Moscow radio and
Tass newsagency had taken the line that
the attack was “an open violation of the
liberty and independence of the
Guatemalan people,” and that it was made
“by bands recruited and armed with
American money.” It seemed that the
Security Council debate would proceed
on those lines.
Six years ago British Honduras,
Guatemala’s other border-State, was
under threat from Guatemala. Following
a suggestion that B.H. might be incor-
porated in a British Caribbean Federa-
tion, Guatemala protested, and a phony
movement in Belize agitated for union
with Guatemala. Guatemalan troops
massed on the frontier, but when the
cruiser Sheffield dashed to British
Honduras the crisis passed, though the
frontier remained closed for three years.
In 1951 Guatemala again raised terri-
torial claims to British Honduras. These
were rejected by Britain.
• e
Esperance Downs (B. 2/6/’54) isn’t the
only new area about to be opened-up
for settlement in WA.’s Bight country.
Further west 500,000 acres of mallee land
between the Gairdner and Pallinup rivers
is being considered for soldier-settlement.
THE BELLBOY
The proposal is to cut-up the area into
2500-acre blocks for mixed farming.
Rainfall averages about 20in., and a spur
railway from the main Albany line is
just outside the boundary of the project.
• «
Distribution of census-forms to house-
holders for the big count on lime 30 will
begin tomorrow. It is obligatory for every
head of a household to fill-in the ques-
tionnaire, and there is a £5O penalty for
making an untrue statement. There s one
exception; the question relating to
religion may be left unanswered, if so
desired.
• •
Vic, A.L.P. has abandoned its advocacy
of proportional-representation for muni-
cipal elections. Reason for the change is
the realisation that p.-r. is responsible for
putting two Communists on the Sydney
City Council.
• •
A case to be heard by the Full High
Court on August 17 will be watched
with interest by the meat-export trade.
It began in Adelaide as a police-prosecu-
tion under the South Australian Act con-
trolling the slaughter and export of meat
and has been transferred by consent to
the High Court. Noarlunga Meat, Ltd.,
is charged with having slaughtered
lambs for export after having been
refused a State licence. The defence is
that the company’s premises had been
licensed and registered under the Com-
monwealth Commerce (Meat Export)
Regulations, and that the carcasses were
delivered to the Australian Meat Board
for export to Britain. The S.A. Govern-
ment contends that this granting oiTegis-
tration conferred no positive right o
slaughter, and that if it did so, it is
invalid.
• •
Cain’s vast liquor-reforms become law
in Victoria on June 30, after which date
diners at hotels and licensed cates will be
able to acquire headaches over their meals
until 10 p.m. on weekdays and Saturdays
and on Sundays at midday as well as at
dinner. After that date also peak-hour
drinkers will have 15-minutes’ grace
to drain their last pot before being thrown
out. Equally sweeping changes are hourly
expected in that other Augean stable the
slum position.
• •
Cahill must be very annoyed with the
“Sydney Morning Herald.” Granny gets
the overwhelming proportion of classified
ads. in Sydney, and until a fortnight ago
these included several columns a week of
announcements calling for tenders for
N. S. Wales Government contracts. On
Saturday, June 12, those accustomed to
looking for these in the “Herald” looked
in vain Instead, the ads. filled a page
in the “Telegraph.” It is not yet known
whether N. S, Wales public servants have
been instructed to ban the “Births, Mar-
riages and Deaths” section of the
“Herald,” but this will probably follow
in due course.
It’s a wonder some bright boy didn’t
think of transferring the tender-ads. t
the party’s “News Review” as a circula-
tion-booster. Then they could have been
set on the “Herald’s” linotypes as before.
• •
~ -r PWord has been visiting
W h atmay fi b e
orpr®. s -d ker f^ u spots
m the vicinity of Crocker
been making the geiger-counters click
excitedly. Of Victoria Hut, t e t
promising, Play ford says.
ma?er, ng whic a h bS StX appeal? to
be proceeding in depth and is of a quality
which can be treated by known methods at
Port Pirie.
Test-drills are proceeding, and a com-
plete survey of the area is planned.
• •
.
The Opposition parties in the Victorian
Parliament seem closer to agreement
than at any tim& since the Cam Govern-
ment came to power. They are planning
ahead for next year s Legislative Council
elections.
• •
“Stromlo” * Two-thirds of Australia has
r ssa
preliminary maps which will be the basis
of new standard maps. The national map-
ping office of the Department of the
Interior hopes to simplify the work and
gain greater accuracy by a new type of
surveying instrument, a geodimeter,
which measures distances up to 25 miles
with an error of less than three inches.
This is used at night, its operator calcu-
lating by electronic measurement the
time taken for light signals to travel to a
distant mirror and return. Wonder how
long it will be before the abos substitute
it for their smoke-signals?
• e
The way things are going the last Vic-
torian Clydesdale will soon be sent to the
taxidermist preparatory to being placed
alongside Phar Lap in the Melbourne
Museum. Victorian Department of Agri-
culture has announced that in contrast
with the 1000 draught stallions registered
in 1939 there are now only 83.
' • •
“Feng-Shui”: Having discovered in
New Guinea a’ hitherto unknown tribe
completely shut away from the rest of
civilisation by a vast rampart of moun-
tains, the authorities propose to extend
control into the region. What on earth
can those people have done to deserve
that punishment?
• •
Britain may be using atomic power
sooner than was expected. Sir George
Nelson, head of the company which
makes the Canberra bombers, in a paper
delivered at a convention of electric-
power engineers last week, put the date
as close as 1956. By the end of that year,
he forecast, the nuclear-power station
now being built at Sellafield in Cumber-
land should be feeding electricity into
the national power network.
“Melbn”: Richmond*City Council has
found a way of making a bit of money
out of the remnants of the Royal-visit
decorations by letting an arch for three
years at a rental of £4OO to advertise
petrol. Other advertisers are offering
Melbourne Council £lOO a week for the
use of the Swanston-street arch with the
alleged abo motives. The same concern
asked for permission to erect two other
arches, but got a flat refusal. Yet the
A.B.C. is allowed to disfigure the facade
of the Town Hall with portraits of im-
ported conductors and musicians and
singers.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
TlfE certainly do puzzle these New
Australians. In the first race most
of the bunch around the wireless at the
local had backed Mokey, s.p. It got
there by a whisker and Anselmo was
jubilant, until the call came over that it
had weighed-in light. That took some ex-
plaining ; Anselmo was still bubbling
when the sporting-edition arrived. It
had it that Mokey had stolen the lead
before the turn, held on to it just long
enough to win, but was disqualified for
light-weight, having dropped his lead in
the straight. Then Anselmo went up in
the air: “Da Mokey he steala da lead,
he droppa da lead, he holda da lead, he
winna da race, he losa da race; I winna
da punt, I losa da dough. Yes? No? I
no know. NO! I chucka da punt. I tossa
da pitch!”—“Emjai.”
*l*
“E. & 0.E.”: A ship without a home-
port is making first visits to Tasmania and
South Australia. The General Guisan,
she belongs to the Suisse Atlantique S.A.
Co., with headquarters at Lausanne,
though she is registered at Basle. Built
in England, the ship is manned by Swiss
and Italian seamen on a fifty-fifty basis.
The engineers are Dutch, captain and
chief officer both Italian. At present
under charter to the Port Line, General
Guisan might appear to be a ship of
Babel, or a floating U.N.O.—except that
she works,
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Tickertype”: Andy pushed a trolly in
the bakery. Nobody suspected he was
ambitious till he gave notice that he was
leaving for a new job. It wasn’t the
conditions or the pay in the bakery that
worried him, he said. “Then is the new
job a better one?” I asked. Andy thought
for a while, then nodded slowly: “Yeah
—they got bigger trollies at the new
place.”
“Gee Dee”: Appreciate that neat refer-
ence in “Old Blades, Old Shavers”'
(B. 9/6/’54) to the author’s razor being
a “bar-sinister” descendant of the cut-
throat—but the term (a fond one of
novelists when writing on heraldry) is
a heraldic impossibility. In heraldry a
bar is a horizontal band across the field
of the shield, narrower than a fess, wider
than a barrulet, seldom —if ever —used
singly. It can be indented, engrailed,
wavy, embattled, dovetailed, couped and
a couple of other things: but it cannot
be sinister. It is always symmetrical
about the centre line of the field ; there
is as much of it on the dexter, or right
side, as on the sinister, or left side. So
there’s no such beastie as a “bar-sinister,”
nor ever was.
♦> ♦>
“Jemac”: Revolt in. the Press? Sydney
“Sun” has at last described a robbery,
and the men who did the job, as other
than “daring.” Object of the sortie,
in a Marrickville (Sydney) factory,
was three-and-a-half tons of soft-
lead, The reporter found the
thieves “brazen.” Very refresh-
ing. Even more apt if the stuff
pinched had been brass.
“Supersonic”: The U.S. Air Force’s
“human cannon-ball,” Lieutenant-Colonel
John P. Stapp, recently broke all ground-
speed records by riding a rocket-propelled
rail-sled at 421 miles an hour. He
proved, too, that it’s safest in an aircraft
accident to sit facing the tail. That’s the
way Stapp rides, pinioned to the throne
of his machine in experiments to test
effects of “G” (gravity changes in flight)
on jet-pilots. In one test Stapp stopped
his machine fast enough to make him
suffer 46.8 Gs. for .008 second —equiva-
lent to driving a motor-car into a stone-
wall at 120 miles an hour. The impact
made the colonel’s body weigh nearly
four tons. His blood, for that .008 sec-
ond, became three-times as heavy as
mercury. Aviation medicine-men are
fighting G, which they believe has killed
a substantial proportion of people in
plane crashes. Both the R.A.F. and
America’s Military Air Transport Service
have adopted rear-facing seats as safer;
both have highly-convincing evidence
against seating passengers facing the
engines.
***,<&
“Rann”; I’m sure the N.S.W. Teachers’
Federation did not really mean this state-
ment published in the current issue of
“Education”;
... .on a number of occasions a visitor has
gone to a hospital and found that the
patient has been discharged. This is very
disappointing, not only to the visitor; but
it must be equally disappointing to the
patient.
£♦
“Rigel”: British Service authorities
must be much less squeamish than Aus-
tralian ditto about tattooed officers (B.
9/6/’54). Air-Marshal Sir Thomas Elm-
hirst, C,-in-C. of India’s Air Force in
1948-50, is tattooed on both forearms
(at least), extensively but not indecor-
ously. India being a bit warmish, it is
usual to appear in a short-sleeved snirt
even at high-level day-time functions.
The C.-in-C. didn’t seem to suffer any
embarrassment through his decorated
forearms,
“Muskeen”: Tattoo-marks are not a
bar to officer’s rank ; that aspirant for a
commission must have over-assessed his
performances at the O.C.T.U. In spite
of five decorations on my arms, I have
“Just the thing, sir, for a domesticated husband .”
been commissioned from the ranks on
active service in two wars. Of course
there are tattoos and tattoos. Mine are
all highly respectable.
*t* &
“Prad”: The distinction of discovering
the oldest piece of fresh German sausage
in Australia came the way of excavators
preparing for the erection of a new
kindergarten at Ballarat (Vic.). Sealed
from air, it was as fresh as the day it was
buried some 60 years back.
❖ ❖ *X*
“Barnacle Bob”: That shakings-cask
(B. 19/5/’54) was indeed a perk for the
mate; what went into it was of no conse-
quence to the crew, but what once came
out was interesting enough. Old
“Whiskers,” with his big square box
trundling along on two wheels, was well-
known around Plymouth. One day, when
he was leaving the ship, a lorry clipped
off one of his wheels, and the loaded
contraption capsized bottom-up in the
dock-entrance. Unluckily for Whiskers,
first on the scene to lend a helpful hand
were the gate policeman and a Customs
officer. As they heaved the box clear
there was exposed a large coil of what
looked like tarred-hemp rope. But only
some of the shakings were hemp—mostly
they were leaf-tobacco beautifully laid-up
and wormed, parcelled and served, so that
nobody but a Customs officer could say
it was anything but hemp. Whiskers and
the mate didn’t forget that trip’s perks
for a year or two.
♦jt *j«
“C. 8.”: On a quiz-session: “What’s
a cyclone?” “An aeroplane,” “No, it
isn’t. It’s a hurricane.” “Well, that’s an
aeroplane!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Zake”; As well as losing his head
literally (B. 16/6’54), Haydn was in the
habit of losing it figuratively—over
women. He started by falling in love
with the daughter of a wigmaker; when
she refused him he married on the
rebound her sister, just as Mozart was to
do some 20 years later. Haydn’s wife
developed into one of history’s worst
termagants. Despite his pock-marked
face, polyp-enlarged nose, heavy underlip
and protruding bottom-
teeth, Haydn had a strong
attraction for women; the
widow of the Queen’s
music-master in London
was one of his conquests,
and at least two other Eng-
lish ladies with whom he
had friendships he separ-
ately described as “the most
beautiful woman I ever
saw.” When he was 46 and
Prince Nicolaus’s kappelmeister he fell in
love ,with Luigia Polzelli, a singer whose
husband was in the orchestra. But the lady
was interested only in money; and ex-
tracted from Haydn a written promise to
marry none but her if his wife died,
She became the first bereaved, and heart-
lessly married someone else ; the corn-
poser’s wife lived to plague him till he
was 67. But so amiable and vindictiveless
was Haydn that he left the Polzelli a
small annuity in his will.
♦j* ■)£♦ ♦jt
“Clooter”: They’re still coming at one
a minute —especially the female kind. The
sailmaker on our liner was a bearded
pirate who plied his needle in his cubby
aft on the games-deck. Two elderly
ladies condescended to chat with him, and
one asked him if he was capable of mak-
ing a model sailing-vessel and putting it
in a bottle, as she believed the art had
died out. He assured her that it hadn’t,
and that for a pound (sterling) he would
deliver the goods. He did, two days later.
The gratified lady paid over the money.
Next day she went ashore at Naples and
prominent among the pedlars was one
with a stock of exact replicas of her
ship-in-bottle— at 6s. each.
♦♦♦ &
“Bellfield”; We were seeing a travel-
ler off on an overseas liner when a damsel
in the party contracted a toothache. My
wife had aspirins, but the sex can’t seem
to manage their favorite cure-alls with-
out water. I located a bathroom. There
were three taps; one marked “hot,” an-
other “cold” and the third unmarked.
With the voice of experience I advised:
“I wouldn’t drink the cold if I were
you—it might make the tooth worse.”
“But I couldn’t drink hot water,” the girl
protested. No doubt it was a hang-over
from the times when I read “Goldilocks”
that made me say; “The other one
should be just warm.” The damsel
placed the aspirins on her tongue, put
her mouth under the tap—and suddenly
cast-up in a very unlady-like manner.
“Macnell” has been holding out on me.
How was I to know they have saltwater
in taps on ships?
❖ *t* ❖
“Civav”; Indicative of national char-
acteristics? Keeping to their biggest-in-
the-world line, the Yanks have announced
a new Mark of their 836 global-bomber
—the bird which now carries a fighter-
bomber in its belly, and can operate at
the extremely high take-off weight of 200
tons. On the other side of the pond, the
British were faced with the high produc-
tion- and maintenance-costs of specialised
radar equipment, such as the Moving
Target Indicator (this blots out the echoes
of everything except aircraft and vehicles
actually moving on the aerodrome). So
the bright boys of London Airport got
hold of a batch of War Office mine-
detectors, set them into the perimeter
tracks, and wired the lot to the control-
tower. Each metal aircraft’s position is
now automatically monitored as it passes
above the detectors, even when invisible
to the controllers. Installation and main-
tenance costs are negligible compared
to radar.
FRENCH COAL
“The French Coal Board is planning to dye
coal different colors to prevent retailers mixing
qualities.”
To those not in the mining game
Two bits of coal may seem the same,
But here the user may be had —
One may be good, the other bad,
And yet in France, it would appear
{Of course, it could not happen here)
They sell mixed coal to those who buy it:
Fed up, the board says, “Let us dye it!”
So coal will come in every hue —
In coolest shades of green and blue;
And red-hot mommas tastes be met
By hotter red or violet,
And naughty French girls will attire
Their wayward heads in coals of fire,
And strikers suffer from the lack
Of coal to be considered black ;
And dreaming fireside panoramas
Turn into technicolor dramas
Of coal that’s dyed, but can’t remember.
And so becomes a dying ember.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


AUSTRALIAN writers don’t get much
in their own land, but they don’t
fare a lot better in other countries,
either. I have just received what’s left
of £lOO advance on royalties of a book
published in Britain. My literary-agent
took £lO, and earned it, and the British
Treasury £4O 10s. of the remainder,
leaving me with £49 10s. I can now
understand why Shaw, who sold by the
million, died a comparative pauper; and
I am still puzzling out what the British
Treasury has done for me which will
give it a good conscience about pinch-
ing half my earnings. Still, I can get
some satisfaction from the fact that the
£4O 10s. pulled out of me will enable
some poor cove in the Welfare State to
“On the contrary; he's just a publisher—the rest are famous authors."
get his teeth pulled out for nothing.—
“Spokeshave.”
+++
“Peter R.”: When details were released
of the Nautilus, the American atom-
powered submarine, there were doubtful
looks among Navy types. The Nautilus
is designed to travel at 30 knots sub-
merged, which is very well in theory;
but in practice high underwater speeds
can be extremely dangerous. The Royal
Navy discovered this at the end of War
I, when it built the old K-class sub-
marines. These boats were designed with
steam engines, to keep up with the Fleet
on the surface. When they dived, the fires
were shut-down, but the boilers con-
tinued to make enough steam to operate
the turbines for the first 10 to 15 minutes
underwater. This meant that submerged
speed, for that time, was almost 20 knots,
and the boats were found to react in-
stantly and violently to the slightest
alterations of trim. Several were lost
before this was realised ; either by losing
control in a steep dive and plunging
down until pressure crushed the hulls,
or by diving into the bottom hard enough
to disable them. After the tragedy of the
Kl 3 the remainder of the class was
scrapped. That was about 1920, and until
now no other boat has been built that
would approach their speed. I wish the
Yanks luck—but they’d better look out
for trouble.
♦> *i* *>
“Muskeen”: Combles, on the Somme,
was one place I know of that
was “invested” in War I (B. 2/6/’54).
The French came up the Maurepas
Ravine on the south, and the British went
through on the north. It was the first
time I’d heard the term, and I could not
help thinking that, although from a mili-
tary point of view thd operation was a
successful investment, the retummg citi-
zens with their money sunk in real-
estate might not regard it in the same
light.
% +J+
“Dicky”: I’m an Australian, born and
bred, but Charles Shaw (B. 2/6/’54) has
made me homesick for London. Tell
him to be careful, London does that sort
of thing to people. Tell him, too, he can
buy a copy of “The Times” from the
newspaper - man at Gloucester- road
station without ordering it, and, if he
wants to find out what’s on, the same
cove will let him thumb through the
papers without asking him to buy them,
supplying a few Cockney witticisms for
good measure. And he might say “Good-
day” to the bloke who has the flower-stall
close by, because he once thrust a free
armful of golden flowers into my arms
when I had stopped to admire them and
was too broke to buy them. And tell him
if he drops one of those odd-shaped three-
pences into the cap of the one-armed
cove who is always there, singing “Lady
of Spain,” I’ll buy him a beer when he
comes back.
$
“Mach Sonic”: Exit two unforgettable
loves of World War II flyers—the Spit-
fire and the Wellington. The last of
Britain’s 20,351 Spits has just finished its
last op.—photographing Communist
bandits’ hide-outs in Malayan jungle.
The last Wimpey made its final flight
in a demonstration over South Wales.
ITie Spitfires descended from the sleek,
blue Supermarine 5.6.8. seaplane which
won the Schneider Trophy and flew a
world soeed-record of 379.05 m.p.h. back
in 1931. First Spitfire fighters to be
delivered to an air-squadron came off
their production-line in September, 1938.
Wartime Spits totted-up 935,000 sorties
against the enemy. The twin-engined
Wimpey carried thousands of Australian
crewmen over Europe and the Middle
East. First Wimpey to take-off on an
angry mission left Mildenhall at 6.15
p.m. on September 3, 1939, to attack
German warships off the Danish coast;
the total 11,461 of them dropped close on
100,000 tons of bombs in the war. The
type was useful, capable of taking
terrific punishment and popular among
the blokes who flew it. It remained
on ops. till a few months before the war
ended. It is almost certain that two Spit-
fires and the last Wellington will be
kept as museum-pieces to honor these
classic aircraft.
■£+
“Crunch”: At last I’ve seen the great
Garbo! She stars in “Mari© Walewska,”
which has been revived in Melbourne.
The Garbo legend was born before I
was; I own to resenting the way critics
“I suppose it's me for the jolly of top-bunk again tonight ."
raved about the unsurpassable greatness
of one who achieved fame by saying, “I
want to be alone.” They said these
modern stereotyped glamor-dolls could
never equal her. Thought this was just
a facet of the old-timers’ “things aren’t
what they used to be” —till I saw her.
They even tell me “Marie Walewska”
is not one of her best. If it’s a fair
sample of the films of the 1930’s then
let me add my youthful voice to those
that yearn after “the good old days.”
“Sister Ellell”: The honorary, doing
his ward-rounds, indicated to Matron that
he would gaze down the patient’s throat.
Matron turned, and said to the very new
nurse, “Bring me a spatula.” The lassie,
frightened and clueless, scuttled off.
Presently she returned —with the house-
keeper, who stood there very uncom-
fortable, as the wards were never her
domain. Then Matron, holding out her
hand for the tongue-depressor, glimpsed
the lady. After a bit of parlez-vous, it
transpired nurse thought the request was
to “Bring Miss Batchelor.” So she did,
* *X* *>
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): Some time back a
friend, whose young wife had dropped
dead that afternoon, agitatedly asked us
up to his hotel room. On
the wallpaper beside the
shaving-mirror, a message
in writing identical with his
wife’s (not normally a
scribbler on walls) faced
us: “I am so sorry that
The message trailed
off as though the writer
had not strength to con-
tinue. It wasn’t till after
the distressing business of
the funeral that I remem-
-1 bered husband and wife
conversed always in their
own language, not English.
I’d given it up, till a recent
visit to the hospital; there
I heard an Indian patient
grieving for her dead baby in
English, in her sleep. With neither woman
was English her mother tongue, though
they spoke (and the earlier-mentioned
wrote) it fluently. Something to do with
an English-speaking environment? Or
what?
“8.K.G.”: With prospect of their
Degraves-street subway under
street nearing its completion, Mel-
bourne’s City Fathers are acting like the
father of the debutante. No “coming out”
has been watched with greater interest
by the boys at the Town Hall. The more
hard-bitten citizenry, however, are in-
dined to view the proceedings a little
askance, as the blushing deb. has taken
something over 25 years to appear. Now,
with the purchase by the State of Snow’s
building adjoining the subway on
Flinders-street (to house the lottery), the
project’s name has inevitably been
changed to “Tatt’s Tunnel.”
*
“Kellick”: Nosey was the ship’s cham-
pion leadswinger, and if he ever missed
his daily loaf at the sick-bay it was be-
cause he really was crook. Our senior
M.O. had long since given him away.
Came the day when a bright young man
fresh from university joined the ship as
junior surgeon. Warned about Nosey,
he decided to get in the first blow; when
an arm was bared to show some imagin-
ary soreness, he said, “Come now, if we
were both civilians, you wouldn’t come
to me with that, would you?” “No,
sir,” flashed Nosey, “I’d send for you.”
❖ ❖
“F.S.”: Joseph Burke, Professor of
Fine Arts at Melbourne University, said
the other day that the man-in-the-street
was a patron of the arts, whether he
bought a tie, a motor-car or a house. He
might have added “or a painting.” The
prof, was quite right, however. Unfor-
tunately, what stands between the man-in-
the-street and his getting a beautiful tie
or house is that he will always choose in
terms of the prevailing fashion. One of
the newly-rich who had established him-
self in Toorak asked a distinguished
artist to paint a portrait of his wife in
his new house. He was hurt and sur-
prised when the artist said: “I could no
more paint a portrait in that house than
a hen could lay an egg in a furnace.”
*l* ❖ ❖
“A. Moral”: Thousands of R.A.A.F.
types will retain varying memories of 11
Personnel Depot and Reception Centre,
situated in Cannon Place, on the front
at Brighton (Eng.). Here’s mine. Many
passing through the depot wangled un-
official but pleasant living-out arrange-
ments in private dwellings sited so close to
the Centre that there was clear audibility
between parade-ground and flanking
houses. One frosty morning, at roll-
call, no response was made when the
name of Flight-Sergeant Psmith was twice
called by a fire-eating W.O. Just as the
absentee’s name was called for the third
time, a second-floor window in a neigh-
boring block of flats was raised, and in
informal, friendly and feminine tones
came the announcement: “E’ll be darn
in a minute. Ducks!”
♦l* ❖ *
C. 8.”: A New Australian artist, up-
standing and well-groomed, met at a
party an Australian girl who expressed
surprise at finding he was an artist. “But,”
she said, “I thought artists were dirty
people.” “So some of the great ones
were,” he said. “Well, you’re not,” she
retorted. “I wish I was,” he answered.
“Why?” asked the damsel. Said the
New Australian: “Michael Angelo was
so interested in his painting that he didn’i
have time for washing ; his socks grew to
his feet when he was ' painting the
frescoes in the Sistine Chapel.”
VERY ELUSIVE
“Many a hostess seeks despairingly the secret
of throwing a really successful cocktail-paity.
Women’s magazine.
It’s as simple as can be.
Make it late in afternoon
(.For that is the hour, you see,
That is most inopportune );
Stack as many as you can
Till they’re standing pan to pan,
So tightly squeezed they’re anchored,
permanently —
This will readily ensure
That from some contiguous bore
There’s no escaping t forcefully or
gently.
Simply for convention’s sake
{Otherwise they’ll think you’re rude),
Introductions you must make ;
But just heed this certitude:
It’s a fiver to a bob
That among the milling mob
If you happen to be heard you’ll not
be heeded —
And, to be quite candid, you
From this point could take a pew.
For as hostess you will not be missed
nor needed.
As the atmosphere gets thick.
Sun-tanned frankfurts sleek and thin
They can harpoon with a stick,
To be drowned down in the gin.
Some will yap of Freud and Stein
In a manner asinine,
Particularly those who’re rather arty.
Wit there’ll be, you understand, . /
But ’twill all be second-hand —
The genuine stuff not toted to your
party.
The gardenias in the trough
Will be reeling from the dregs
Tossed by those who fear to quaff
Lest they’re “funny in the legs.”
Fag-burns on the moquette suite;
Olives —ugh ! The endless bleat.
Yet this will be the sum of all your
labors:
That the ever-mounting din
{Chief by-product of the gin)
Will render you so snaky with the
neighbors.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Dropped in from across-Tasman with
ideas on Sydney’s radio and theatricals.
Red Moore, remembered this side
as the chief convulser of the Kiwis.
Moore’s impersonations, particularly of
a soulful Bing Crosby and that French
professor addressing a girls’ school, were
as clever and funny as you’d get. The
Kiwis finally broke-up last January.
What are they doing now? Of the top-
fiighters, Terry Vaughan is assistant to
Frank Tait in Melbourne; Stan Wineera
is welding in Wellington, his pre-Kiwi
profession; of the “ladies,” John Hunter
is touring, a very good Puck (accord-
ing to Press notices) in “A Midsum-
mer Night’s Dream,” and Wally Prictor
is running a rest-home for sick mongs
and moggies. London is Moore’s Mecca,
though he’ll have a shot at forming his
own entertainment-group in Sydney
before shoving-off.
9 •
Herewith Sydney Pollock, who has vet-
ted hundreds of Australian ships for their
seagoing certificates. Born in Sydney, of
an old seafaring family—his father and
both grandfathers seafaring engineers—
educated at Sydney’s Fort Street at the
time J. W. Turner was moulding the
future pillars of the nation. Pollock went
to sea, dodged submarines in War I
(some of them in Billy Hughes’s ships),
and changed from Burns Philp to be-
come N.S.W. Marine-branch engineer
SHIPS
and ship-surveyor in 1922. Transferred
to the newly-formed Commonwealth
Marine Deparment next year, he had the
privilege of surveying the first ship dealt
with. He shifted to Brisbane, then to
Melbourne and a senior position, and
was engineer and ship surveyor-in-chief
when, the other day, he retired.
e •
Passed on in Adelaide at 72, Garnet Vere
Portus, Adelaide University’s history-
professor for 14 years till 1948. In 1951
he joined a Unesco commission formed
to compile a scientific and cultural his-
tory of mankind —the only Australian
selected. This was right in his hand;
he’d been concerned with university
history-teaching since 1914, and had
produced just on a dozen books.
Rhodes man for 1907, while at Oxford
he gathered degrees of 8.A., B.Litt. and
M.A., as well as inclusion in the English
International Rugby Union team. His
only son, John Portus, navigating D.F.C.,
Commonwealth Conciliation Commis-
sioner since 1944, also played Rugby,
for his State —and another more violent
game with a German U-boat, which
ended with the enemy’s sinking and the
aircraft in the sea, though with all
R.A.A.F, players surviving.
• •
A civil C.B.E. came to Professor Harold
Leslie Martin, of Melbourne, who in
War II concerned himself with electronic
development, particularly radar. He is
chairman of the Commonwealth Defence
Scientific Advisory Committee.
• •
Landed C.8.E., Group-Captain Colin
Thomas Hannah, R.A.F., now of Middle
Brighton, Melbourne, who is an aide to
the Queen. Appointed Director-General
of Personnel in 1952, in the late war he
commanded No. 6 General Recco Squad-
ron, which did a lot to keep the Japs on
the move in New Britain and New
Guinea.
0.8. E. to James Lampard Paton, Old
Digger, Perth accountant and company-
director. Founder of the Westralian Surf
Life Saving Association, he has also been
the Cottesloe club’s president, captain and
secretary. In business, growers’ rep.
of Co-operative Bulk Handling, Ltd.
(W.A.), for 15 years and director of a
large accountancy firm, politically he was
for years president of the State’s
Liberals.
• •
“Fairf”: As Jack Read says (B.
9/6/’54), many people believe Tommy
Uren would have beaten Les Darcy. But
one fellow did not: Uren himself. “I
sparred with Darcy in the gym. once,” he
told me, about 28 years ago; “I don’t
think I’d have ever held the middleweight
title if he had stayed in Australia.” It
is true that Uren was wonderfully
“shifty.” “Never pose,” he used to drum
into the boys in his gym. at Fairfield
(Sydney), his contention being that a
moving target was harder to hit, and a
constantly-moving boxer could dart in or
out before a stationary opponent could
get started. It was when, against Len
Johnson, he broke his own rule that his
followers realised his stamina was going ;
Johnson knocked him out. As regards
Tommy’s livelihood in later life: three or
four years ago he was working at Cocka-
too Dock as a plumber’s-laborer.
• •
“C.A.A.”; Gold-medal of the Aus-
tralian Society of Dairying Technology
for 1954 —the society’s highest award—
goes to G. Loftus Hills, of C.5.1.R.0.
It’s for outstanding service to dairying.
Hills has been in charge of the dairy-
products research section; in the late
war he perfected a technique for shipping
dehydrated butterfat to England, when
refrigeration shipping-space available was
very short. More recently he has indi-
cated the cause of deterioration in stored
dairy-products and, in particular, of
butter.
o e
The Forbes family of Mount Lofty
(S.A.) would seem to have a lien on
Military Crosses. Brigadier Alexander
Forbes won his in War I (in 1938 he
organised the unveiling of the Villers-
Bret. war-memorial by George VI). The
brig.’s eldest son, Lieutenant A. J, Forbes,
collected his M.C, in War 11. Now comes
news of another of the three sons, Lieu-
tenant Patrick Forbes, awarded a similar
distinction; venue, Korea. Lately of
the Second Australian Royals up there,
Patrick is now with the Commonwealth
Battle School in Japan.
• ®
Both the Deputy Director-Generalcy
of Education and the Directorship of
Secondary Education in Queensland
become vacant at the end of this month
with John Hill leaving school. An Eng-
lishman who settled in Rockhampton
Grammar School before War I, Hill was
shortly afterwards away again, bound
Gallip. with the 15th Battalion. With
M.C. added to scholarly degrees, he re-
turned to Rockhampton, this time head
of the city’s technical college. A few
years later he was inspector of the
State’s technical colleges, and climbed
rapidly to his present posts.
• •
Claude Esdaile Prior, gone on in
Manly (N.S.W.), will be missed at the
Imperial Service Club, for which he had
qualified in both World Wars. His mili-
tary life was a series of repeats. Coy.-
commander and adjutant of a machine-
gun battalion in the first war, in the early
part of Hitler’s he commanded a battalion
of similar weapons. In 1911, cadet-cor-
poral of the N.S.W. contingent, he was
in London for George V’s coronation ;
in 1937, adjutant of the Australian con-
tingent, he was back there for George
Vi's crowning. Middle East colonel
(Sixth Div.), he came home brigadier, to
be in turn military-secretary, to adminis-
ter both Eastern and Southern Com-
mands, and to be senior Australian mili-
tary observer for the U.N.O. Commis-
sion in Indonesia. A Manly-dweller for
33 years, he had had just on a year as
general-secretary of the seaside suburb’s
Chamber of Commerce.
• •
Captain G. Geddes, first of Fremantle’s
two new pilots who are to cope with the
increasing volume of shipping when the
refinery at Kwinana is in full production,
learnt to steer ships during 18 years’ ser-
vice with the A.U.S.N. He’s been master
of a flotilla of ships, one of which car-
ried Diggers to Pacific islands in War 11.
“X.S.”: There is a rebuke to Mel-
bourne in the death of old Bill Bull in
a Fitzroy police-cell. Bill was the elderly
abo. who enlivened the streets by playing
his plaintive laments on a gumleaf and
getting drunk on the proceeds. The only
thing the authorities could think to do
with him was to send him to jail for
contravening the regulations regarding
street entertainment; he was in and out
of quod once a week for over a genera-
tion. The police said he was a gentle-
man, and he always had on his fine old
face that benign expression which is
characteristic of his race. He was one
of the last full-blooded aborigines in
the State: his was one of the portraits
Percy Leason, one-time Bulletin car-
toonist, painted when, 25 years ago, he
recorded the features of the 30 full-
bloods then remaining.
• •
“Cauboy”: Dame Sybil Thorndike
and her actor-director husband, Lewis
Casson, will signalise the half-centenary
of the doyen of English actresses with
an Australian tour next month, devoted
to Shaksperian verse-readings and
scenes from the plays. Dame Sybil was
already high in her stage-career when
she asked Shaw to give her the lead in
“Candida”; Shaw told her to go and
get a husband, a home and four children
and try again. After she had fulfilled
these requirements she repeated the
request, and Shaw wrote: “You may.”
Australia hasn’t seen her for 22 years.
She then played “Saint Joan,” “Captain
Brassbound’s Conversion,” Euripides and
Ibsen, “Macbeth” and some lesser fry
among the modern playwrights,
• •
G. J. Connor, economist of the Board
of Works, who played a major role in
the drawing-up of the “master-plan” for
Melbourne, is off to America under a
Smith-Mundt Fulbright scholarship to
study local government and town-plan-
ning. Believed to be the first time the
U.S. Government has awarded the
scholarship to a town-planner.
• #
“Pip Tok”: Travel, soldiering and a
mixed-grill of athletics have filled the life
of Dick Trutwin, a recent addition to the
Westralian Education Department. Born
in India, he took up ski-ing in 1950 while
serving in Germany with the British Army
of the Rhine. Besides winning the down-
hill ski-ing championship of that Army,
he successfully contested similar events in
several European centres. Thick horn-
rimmed glasses suggest the student rather
than the athlete, but this has not pre-
vented him from representing his college
at hockey, which he learned to play in
India, besides playing baseball and tennis,
and also swimming. He now has his
athletic eye on Rugby Union.
• o
There’s many a War II swaddy who
has had James Harris on his back—or
at least his trade-mark. For Harris, in
his three factories in Coventry (Eng.),
during the war turned out millions of
yards of webbing for belts, haversacks
and suchlike soldiering appurtenances.
But Goering fixed all that, and with a
RIBBONS
large proportion of his ribbon-producing
plant blown to ribbons, Harris looked
afield to start afresh. Result, in Too-
woomba on the Downs, the first ribbon-
weaving factory in Queensland, the looms
staffed largely by Harris’s employees
from Coventry. Thence roll out ribbons
by the mile, as well as the trade-labels
on Laconia blankets, Stamina cloth and
so forth. High up in Coventry’s Rotary,
Harris is rising in its Toowoomba coun-
terpart.
The Raynor sisters, for long prominent
in nipper-education in Australia, con-
scious that puppetry is playing an in-
creasingly large part in European educa-
tion-methods, looked round for one who
could educate children into using their
inventiveness and imagination; give
them a break from the factual chores of
history, geography and such. Choice was
Walter Wilkinson, of London, master of
the craft for a quarter of a century, and
here victimised by fellow-puppeteer
PUPPETS
Heth. Strikingly like Norman Lindsay
in appearance, earnestness and voice,
Wilkinson can fairly claim to have started
the modem renaissance in puppet- and
marionette-theatre. With his brother and
sister-in-law (painters all three) he began
in 1925, and became renowned enough
in Britain and Europe to be invited to a
recent puppet-festival in the U.S. The
Yanks were so impressed by what he
could do with his hand-operated puppets
(as opposed to their multi-stringed
marionettes) that his visit inaugurated
a nation-wide puppet-phase. While vaga-
bonding about Wilkinson puts his ex-
periences and impressions into travel-
books —eight so far, one of them,
Puppets in Yorkshire, a Book Society
choice.
e •
“Hyanlo”: Retired after sixteen years
as Anglican rector of St. John’s, Forbes
(N.S.W.), Canon Arthur White origin-
ated the Anzac Dawn Service in Aus-
tralia. An Englishman, he enlisted in the
Ist A.1.F., padre, and conducted the
first Dawn Service while a rector in
Westralia. not long after the Armistice.
His wife, who died two years ago, was a
nursing Sister in the same war, and was
wounded in a Zeppelin raid on London;
his son is a Duntroon product with
Korean experience. The canon, at 70,
reckons he’s far from finished yet—he’s
gone missioning in Queensland.
9 •
Into the Silence:
At Burnie (Tas.) at 66, Andrew Bell Morrison,
manager of the V.D.L. Co. since 1946. Arriv-
ing in Melbourne from Scotland in 1924, he
was for a time associated with McKay Massey
Harris before crossing to Tasmania. In most of
Bumie’s commercial and social bodies, he was
also a champion bowls-player.
In Melbourne, Edward Francis Cummins,
Boer War man and prominent in Labor. He
was in the police force, resigned during the
police strike and rejoined to fight for improved
conditions.
At Armidale (N.S.W.), at 80, Sir Hugh Croft,
leading New England grazier. A keen worker
in district councils and pasture-protection, he
represented New England at Rugby Union in
his day. Eldest son Bernard succeeds to the
baronetcy, which was created in 1671.
In Wellington (N.Z.), Harold Gerard, who
published the now defunct “New Zealand
Times,” and who was a many-sided secretary
—of the Public Service Appeal Board, private-
secretary to War I Minister of Defence, and
to the Administrator of Samoa. Rejoining the
Civil Service in 1921, he put in 21 yea«s as
chief clerk of the Department of Agriculture.
At 69, in Adelaide, Lieutenant-Colonel Harold
Susman, initiator of South Australian A.I.F.
recruits into War II Army ways as O.C. of
Wayville Showground camp. He had also
commanded Warradale camp. With the 33rd.
Battalion in War I, severely wounded at
Messines in 1917, in private life he was a
warehouseman and addicted to fishing and
bowls. His only son was in the War II R.A.A.F.
At 60, in Melbourne, Tom Hastie, chairman
of many companies, member of the old sth
Battalion, known for, among other things, its
public-school company and members who have
done well. Wounded at Cape Hellas, Hastie
won M.C., went to France and Belgium, and
finished as major. His cheque-book was always
open to Old Diggers.
In London, at 74, Lord Camrose, boss of
London “Daily Telegraph,” brother of Lord
Kemsley and at one time controller of the
biggest newspaper proprietary in the world.
Three of his four sons are in the newspaper
game.
At Leonora (W.A.), at 65, Bertram Harold
Harris, chief-accountant of the Sons of Gwalia,
Ltd. Foundation-member and president of two
local co-operative societies, he was for several
years chairman of the Leonora District Hospital
board.
At 92, in Melbourne, Thomas George Wragge,
son of a pioneer who established Merino flocks
which later became famous and helped found
many N.S.W. flocks. He owned the 100,000-
acre Tulla station.


THE FIRSTBORN


ABORIGINALITIES
’yyHEN I was an inspector of schools
’ * in outback N.S.W. I received a
complaint from the Farmers and Settlers’
Association that the teacher at one small
school was not only inefficient, but used
to drink a bottle of beer at the school
every day. I made a visit. There were
over 500 empty beer-bottles stacked
neatly under the school; also, he was an
indifferent teacher. I called on the
F. and S. secretary and told him the
teacher would be transferred. That
evening apparently every farmer who' had
a child at the school drove into town to
interview me, and beg me to leave the
teacher there for another six months.
Reason? “He’s our wicketkeeper, and
we can’t get another!” —“Blanc.”
* * * *
“Mero”: During the Eddie Wardian
era in Papua it was a serious offence to
assault a native in any circumstances, a
state of affairs which the indigenous
population exploited to full advantage.
At the slightest provocation the brown-
skinned employee would bolt for the
local magistrate and “make talk,” One
case before the District Officer was a
very delicate affair: it involved Napoleon
“If it's not reply-paid I Won't answer it."
Bonaparte, a houseboy in the D.O.’s
residence, as plaintiff, and Mrs. D.O. as
defendant. Napoleon alleged that Mrs.
D.O. had assaulted him for merely wiping
his nose on the tea-towel. Not only had
she criticised his ancestors in an unbe-
coming manner but she had hit him over
the head with a pack-saddle. As this
item of equipment had never graced the
station, his Worship was loathe to give
credence to the accusation, until, with-
out any adjournment, Napoleon raced
away from the court-house, returning
presently with Exhibit “A” —Mrs. D.O.’s
corsets!
»’* * *
“Dicky”: I watched as he preened
himself in front of the glass. Obviously
a fop, he was most particular with his
toilet, and it took him some time, while
he viewed himself critically from side
to side, with frequent change of position,
before he had himself as neat as he
wanted. Satisfied at last, he tried to lift
the chrome-frame that encircled the
windscreen which he had been using as a
mirror; then, disgusted with his failure
to add something really spectacular to
his playground, the bower-bird hopped
off the bonnet of the car and went after
glitter more easily thieved,
* * * ♦
“Warihi”: Paparoa, in Maoriland’s
North Auckland province, is to have a
living memorial to the dead—to the army
of axemen who felled the great kauri
forests. And, ironically, a grove of
kauris has been set aside for the purpose.
But vandals were bigger foes to forest-
conservation than the axeman ; especially
the gum-diggers, who set fire to the im-
mense kauri forest at Puhipuhi and
destroyed timber which now would have
a value of £5O million. There have been
very big kauri trees. Old hands at
Mercury Bay claim that a stump was
found of 'a tree cut in the ’thirties of
last century which measured 28ft. in
diameter. “Tanemahuta,” the 2000-year-
old show kauri of the Dominion, does
not come up to that.
* * * «
“Civav”: East Gippsland’s creek-
names (B. 19/5/’54) at least have variety,
which is more than can be said for
northern Queensland. Driving down
from Darwin any creek would have been
welcome at first; but after Charters
Towers streams were frequent. The first
Six-mile Creek was idly noted; crossing
the Six-mile Creek again some miles
south we wondered at its peculiarly wan-
dering course. Next afternoon the Six-
mile Creek turned-up again, and the
following day we crossed it once more.
From Clermont onwards it became a
regular landmark, almost an old friend —
no matter which road we took it always
crossed a Six-mile Creek. We finally lost
the creek just south of Brisbane. Where
all those creeks were six miles from we
never discovered.
• * • «
“Gumsucker”: Didn’t “Quo Vadis”
make hard work of it by entering the
water to “tickle” his perch (B. 2/6//S4)?,
As a kid in Victoria, I tickled many a
perch in old water-filled quarry-holes
round Ballarat by lying flat on the bank
and feeling down and along until con-
tact with the gills was made, then plung-
ing thumb into the opening, while grip-
ping with the fingers of both hands —
and so a perch of even a couple of pounds
might be lifted to the bank. Adult-
hood brought a trip to Scotland, where
I was initiated into the “tickling” of
trout along the upper reaches of the
Clyde ; done in exactly the same way,
though game was more plentiful, the
trout having a habit of sleeping or rest-
“He's a bad influence to the other birds."
ing at about arm’s-length under water.
There, though, lying prone' on the bank
served a twofold purpose, for “tickling”
was poaching and was severely frowned
upon, with patrolling gillies eager to haul
the offender before his Worship, who in-
variably awarded “Five-pounds or one
month.” Tickling on the Clyde was
therefore done on moonless nights,
* * * *
“Derwent”; The swarms of sea-lice,
or “trail,” trouble shark-fishermen by
scoffing anything fleshy left on the lines
overnight (they’ll clean-up a shark in
about four hours, leaving only an empty
shell looking like a semi-inflated paper-
bag), but they are occasionally put to use.
In Tasmanian waters huge deep-sea
crabs running to 201 b. or more, with a
creamy shell and great fat claws, are
brought up in the crayfish-pots. The
flesh is good eating, sweeter than that of
the cray. Fishermen frequently prepare
them as “curios.” A small nick is made
at the joint of one of the claws, then
the lice are allowed to get to work, and
soon have the shell devoid of its con-
tents. The specimen is then dried, given
a clean-up, painted with a coat of lacquer,
and fixed on a sheet of ply-board.
♦ * ♦ *
“Mark Three Star”: In reply to
“G.1.H.” (B. 9/6/54) I would suggest
that a Boer soldier might have asked the
same question reversed: “Why do Lee-
Enfields make a double-report, and the
Mauser a single crack? In other words,
the double-report is heard only at some
distance from the rifle, out in front of it.
Both rifles, Lee-Enfield and Mauser,
make a double-report, consisting of the
explosion of the charge and the impact
of the bullet in the air. The person firing
hears one sound only, however, because
to him the sounds are simultaneous. The
bullet starts off at 2000 ft. per second (the
velocity of Boer War ammunition), while
the sound follows at 1100 f.p.s. Thus,
at 500yds. the sound is 0.8 seconds be-
hind, and a person below the bullet there
hears two sounds; that made by the
bullet first, followed by the sound of the
rifle. If he fires back he hears a single-
report from his own rifle, but the other
chap hears two. With higher velocities in
present-day rifles the bullet gets there
sooner, the sound takes just as long—
hence the interval between the two sounds
is greater. With earlier weapons, such
as the Martini-Henry, the bullet-velocity
was so close to that of sound that no
such effect occurred.
“W.J.W.”: First produced in quantity
about 1941, plastic high-explosive was
available to Australian troops a couple
of years later, and beck me immediately
popular. It had a detonation-rate of
about 8000 metres a second, compared
with about 7300 for tetryl, T.N.T. and
guncotton, and about 6000 for gelignite,
That gives it a higher cutting-rate but
makes use of both a detonator and a
primer advisable, though nine times out
of 10 you’d get away with det. alone. It
was its plastic qualities that endeared it
to our “ginger-beers.” It could be
moulded into position under the flange
of a railway-line or pressed in against the
bearer of a bridge, and the close contact
thus established made it considerably more
effective. Towards the end of the war it
was superseded in war-heads by an ex-
plosive with a detonation-rate of 14,000
metres a second, but none of that reached
Australia. I doubt if this rate will be
bettered now. The A-bomb hasn’t alto-
gether dispensed with chemical explosives,
but it has made further research along
those lines redundant.
OFFICE BOY
Black hair slicked down, and his thin frame
thrust into readymades, the office boy’s
sprawling at table by an outer window, piled
with terrifying sheets, quadruplicate,
three furrows ploughed in his low brow,
Gary, parents christened him, it seems—
for reasons that are only found in dreams. . .
Apollo, is his the Now
budding, golden, irreclaimable,
for which white creaking dotards always sigh?
And even middle-age
mourns o’er a global stomach or one knee
that turned rheumatic?
This old-man face on skinny shoulders set,
depressed, hands-deep-in-pockets, head-thrust-
forwaxd gait,
and frame ill nourished?
What’s bludgeoned all our days?
Are there no treasure-islands left in all the
world,
Beaten by sky-blue combers, with palm plumes’
green
symmetry, brown of matsails, and out-riggers,
and the lovenote of the conch?
Has the silver flight of gulls and blue-eyed terns
been swallowed by a tape-recorder, and the last
basso of a king-breaker sunk into
cicada-whirring of pneumatic drills?
Even as I muse,
my theory to confuse
(as usual) Gary has fixed me with grey irises
remote and sage:
“I hope we don’t work late.
I’m only half-way through me pigeon cage.
Take me an age, I’d say,
and the mother-homer’s eggs out any day!”
(A bright flush starts to grow).
“I’ve got two homer pigeons. Did y’ know?”
Homer pigeons. . ,
Something in his pinched white face
lights this drab place
with tingling life. The bare wall sings
to lyric murmurs and the pulse of wings
flecked with greenish purple in the light,
till color, flight, and sun
and dreaming wizened Gary merge in one!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.
Cloud of Thirst
TN “Australian Bush Ballads” (B.
A 5/5/’54) Douglas Stewart mentioned
that “Banjo” Paterson’s “The City of
Dreadful Thirst” was apparently written
from a Bulletin Aboriginalities par.
The Paterson ballad concerned a
stranger from Narromine who had a
terrible tale about happenings there.
Among all the rainless drought-clouds,
one had finally settled; it was a “cloud
of thirst”:
It wasn’t like a common cloud, ’twas more
a sort of haze;
It settled down about the streets, and
stopped for days and days:
And not a drop of dew could fall, and not
a sunbeam shine
To pierce that dismal sort of mist that hung
on Narromine.
The Narromine folk, said the stranger,
could not leave the bars of the pub.
Everyone was drinking solidly; all
afraid to leave in case the cloud of thirst
killed them. At last the liquor gave out.
Some shearers “found some kerosene
and settled down again,” but the narra-
tor and “all the squatter chaps” ‘'stag-
gered to the train,” which carried them to
safety, for “once outside that cloud of
thirst we felt as right as pie.” The
stranger intended returning to Narromine
because he heard that the cloud of thirst
had “shifted on to Bourke.”
Here is the paragraph which seems to
have inspired “Banjo,” from a July, 1899,
Bulletin :
A young and verdant reporter in W.A.
struck against something more sudden than
usual in Mt. Malcolm district, and thus
records it in the cold print of a Perth daily:
“One peculiar feature about the place is
that waves of insobriety pass over the town
at intervals, and nearly every man is a vic-
tim. One resident told the writer that these
waves were most peculiar things, aftd that
scarcely anyone seemed to be able to with-
stand them. They were like a willy-willy, but
no one knew how they arose, or where they
came from, and they disappeared as rapidly
as they came, and left merely devastated
marks behind them, and no one who got in
the way escaped injury.”
N.K.


Jack Davey looks into the Airfare.
. . - i t-i..• j ** A iYm<
There’s always a chuckle from the unexpected *^ r s a "f e fun is always
MDaveTaf£Sf master of ceremonies. Even listeners can win prizes m
JACK DAVEY’S AMPOL SHOW
“NUMBER PLEASE”
EVERY FRIDAY AT 8 P.M.
2GB - SAW ■ 4BH - SDN ■ 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT 2CA
3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
-S MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
d
HEARING
CENTRES
(The Electrocoustic Co.)
10 MARTIN PLACE (Opp. G.P.0.). BL2OIB.
TRANSISTOR *
Hearing Aids
Following wide publicity given TRANSISTOR
HEARING AIDS, recently .Telex cordially mvite
those interested to TRY —BEFORE YOU BUY
the TELEX Transistor—American and Engusn.
TELEX make no extravagant claims about
Transistors—which have been available for some
time because, like INVISIBLE EARPIECES,
Transistors are NOT SUITABLE to all types of
Hearing Loss, and can only be fitted successfully
in certain cases. The exclusive Telex
Home Trial
is essential.
'
(See Pink Page
210 In Tel. Dir.)
(Transistors merely take the place oJ_
VALVES in a Hearing Aid and make
batteries last longer.)
HEARING
MEXB.; 250 Collins
BRIS.: 127 Adelaide
ADEL.: 66 Bundle
PERTH: 49 William
HOBART: 104 Collins
SYDNEY: 10 Martin
N’CASTLE: Hunter
Thorn sts.
St.
St.
St.
St.
St.
PI.
and
AIDS
most country towns throughout AUBT.
and In most capital cities throughout the worm.
Mail this Coupon for Full Particulars.
Name Address *
“Clunesman”: Mention here of the
insistence of Mohammedans on killing
their own meat recalls an old Afghan
who used to have a store near Wave
Hill station in the N.T. When a stock-
camp was killing in the vicinity he used
to come over and bleed the kill. There
was however, no Koran stuff about him ,
but’then, he was an outcast—he wore
a hat. One of his countrymen, who des-
pised him for abandoning his turban, used
to smoke by holding the cigarette in his
cupped hand at the little-finger end and
sucking smoke from between the thumb
and bent forefinger.
* * * *
“Archaen”: Some months ago a par.
described how the Islington railway
THE first association in this part of file
world for the purpose of making
the chips fly in public contest was
formed, not in Tasmania in 1892, as com-
monly stated, but at Nymagee (N.S.W.)
10 years earlier. The local smelting-
works chose box-logs, dry and solid, of
not less than 14in, diameter, for the first
public axemen’s struggle. There were
two choppers, with two such logs each
to get through. James Rydberg parted
his first log in 3 min. 6 sec., and the
second in 5 min. 12 sec., which landed
him first-money two chips ahead of
Tommy Combo, an aborigine.—“Hay-
band.”
* * ♦ ♦
“Sebak”: Christopher Kock was, of
course, speaking symbolically when he
wrote of the girl with “ancient hair;
Grandma’s hair” (“The Boy Who
Dreamed the Country Night” poem, B.
26/5/’54), but a young matron of my
acquaintance can go farther back than
that —she possesses her great-grand-
mother’s hair. It is woven into a cord-
like bracelet so delicate in texture and
so cleverly executed that only a minute
examination can convince an observer
that the fine fabric really is human hair.
The tasselled ends are finished with
dainty golden bells, and the mineral is
very little more golden in color than the
hair. Nearly 200 years ago, in Heligo-
land, a bridegroom conceived the idea of
having a bracelet made from some of
the hair of his 21-year-old bride. He little
knew that he had created, at a time
when one James Cook was yet to be
elevated to captain’s rank, an heirloom
that would eventually find its way to
Australia.
* * ♦ *
“Narumee”: 1 always did think the
kookaburra’s voice was an odd choice
as signature-tune of the Radio
Australia feature “My Son£ Goes Round
The World”; evidently the 8.8. C. thinks
so, too. In a recent broadcast of Alice
In Wonderland the kooka’s cackle was
a feature of the sound-effects during the
recitation of “Jabberwocky.” It heralded
the approach of the frumious Bander-
snatch !
workshops (S.A.) cut a slice
off the Huckitta meteorite
from Central Australia with a
diamond-toothed saw. Now
Bill Cassidy—here from the
U.S.A. under the Fulbright
scheme to study our collec-
tions of meteorites —has shown
the S.A. Museum a much
simpler and cheaper way. An
electric-motor provides the
power for moving a blade of
22-gauge soft iron to and fro.
The actual sawing is done by
grains of carborundum fed
into the cut, mixed with
soluble oil. Similar machines,
with quartz-sand as the
abrasive, are used for sawing
blocks of marble. It takes
several weeks to get through
the extremely tough nickel-
iron alloy of a big metallic
meteorite, but there is little
expense beyond cost of the
power, a few pounds of
abrasive and an occasional
new iron blade.
* * *
“Alma”: Can’t accept “Hayband’s”
contention (B. 2/6/’54) that sheep take
no notice of wind-direction. On me
plains, mustering Merinos is always sim-
plified if there has been a wind blowing
from the same quarter for a couple of
days. As they feed into the wind, it s
a safe bet that they will be in that corner
of the paddock from which the wind is
blowing.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: I’d like to see Hedley
(“The Perishers” short-story, B.
26/5/’54), with author Nancy Cato as
offside, doing that welding job on their
busted radiator-tank, because it would
be the first I’d seen in 40-years’ experi-
ence. Modern radiator-cores are—even
some early ones were —thin sheet-copper
and/or tubes (for heat-conductivity),
joined to brass tanks (for durability), the
whole “sweated” together with high-class
solder. What Hedley’s welding heat
would do to that combination can be
imagined In Medley’s tool-kit there was
probably' a tube o£ one of the excellent
adhesive compounds on the market
today Used in conjunction with that
wasted piece of waterproof sleeping-bag,
a fine “eet-vou-home” repair would have
restdted and Hedley and his missus
would be with us today. Perish the
thnnobt i
g *
“W PT ” • Smoke curling from that
par. on the coast-banksia (B. 2/6/’54)
reminded me that we preferred to smoke
the porous stems of the banksia flowers;
the real bush-cigar. You simply put one
end in your mouth, lit the other and
puffed. It was a satisfying smoke, I
knew one cove who, even after he could
“Now We're past the sound-barrier I can talk freely—Chiselface!"
afford the best, preferred his bush-cigars,
and always carried a few in his silver
cigar-case.
* ♦ * *
•
“Salmon Gums”: Kangaroos have
practically taken over much of W.A.’s
pastoral country from the Murchison to
the Kimberleys, so C.5.1.R.0. officers
are being stationed at Woodstock to
try to find some way to control them.
It won’t be easy. They are in unbe-
lievable numbers — i qne station kille
23,000 in one season and hardly noticed
the difference —and you can t lay poison-
baits amongst a mixed herd of ’roos and
sheep and cattle and hope to come out on
top. Unless, of course, there’s some
poison that ’roos like and sheep won t
touch. One poison they’re trying is
“1080,” which has been used successfully
against some pests overseas. The classic
example of its use was against a plague of
mice which for a time halted reafforesta-
tion in pine-country in Canada. Ine
practice was to leave trees to seed at
intervals, relying on natural germination
to restore the forests; l v b Sn the ß s™ re-
the seeds as fast as they fell. IBefore re
seeding from a helicopter the torestere
decided to f , br "^“f rn^‘ so ”^ al ‘ S ’ tiv e
possible without destroying the native
birds. It was found that birds have prac-
tically no sense of simellbut have keener
vision than almost all animals, ana it
was reasoned that sight is the dominant
sense in their search for food. Further
research revealed that birds won’t take
even the most attractive food if it’s dyed
green, particularly a certain shade. Übvi-
ously this color doesn t suggest anything
edible to them. So wheat poisoned with
“1080” and dyed green was broadcast,
It got the mice, and the birds were un-
harmed.
“Bass”: Archdeacon Wollaston, whoso
journal gives a picture of life in W.A.
less than 20 years after the founding of
the colony, recounts that when two of his
sons were leaving the State, a third
brother accompanied them on horseback
from Bunbury, on the west coast, about
200 miles across-country to Albany, on
the south coast. They took Wollaston s
faithful old steed Hotspur, a pony, and
a hired horse; but when they reached
Albany there was no food there, so they
put the horses in the care of a native.
He turned them loose, and they went
bush. Edward, who seems to have been
a resourceful youth, got home by walking,
getting a lift from a sandalwood-cutter,
and finally borrowing a horse from a post-
man. He did the trip in 14 days—not bad
going in rough, largely uninhabited
country. But Hotspur’s performance was
as good. He took only a day longer to
reach home —and he couldn’t ask direc-
tions, nor get a lift!
AEROPLANE AT NIGHT
There are no cars
Where the road lies dark and empty
Beyond Katunga, out where
The Roopena hills he cold and bare
Outlined against the stars.
But when I hear that far-off note,
High above in the icy wind.
The mail-plane flying towards the sea
With sparkling lights and throbbing throat,
Then will I stand and dream
Of the mile upon empty mile
To where the shining cities he,
Till the drone of engines die:
The sound of journeys, sound of exile.
S.A.
KEVIN R. RYAN.


jpp”f
m 4 .
■
SjMjff&ggZ I I 'i
~v-a v • --?iV J;, iMsI
i
% !
■
IB
1
-
a
BRVJ
I
5 ■;•«...
TV"
is
■
: ' ■ : ,
v wm
mi
gk Vli
l&a
&V .
V'
:r:#3
„ .4
■HPnwyflii
«£i£i
■
“2bu asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes. Sir ? ’•
Those who travel widely, for business or for
pleasure, must have observed how frequently
Be\SONand HEDGES Super Virginia cigar-
ettes, made from the finest of fine tobaccos, are
called for to distinguish any special occasion
when only the best will do.
fd
f
df
d
Benson and Hedges are proud to announce that their
Super Virginia Cigarettes are available in the world’s most
famous liners, including the following great ships:
QUEEN ELIZABETH - QUEEN MARY • EMPRESS OF FRANCE
UNITED STATES • AMERICA • LIBERTE • ILE DE FRANCE
PARAGUAY STAR • CAPE TOWN CASTLE • DURBAN CASTLE
EMPRESS OF SCOTLAND • WINCHESTER CASTLE • CARONIA
BLOEMFONTEIN CASTLE • EDINBURGH CASTLE • SAMARIA
STIRLING CASTLE • GOTHIC • ANDES • DOMINION MONARCH
CORINTHIC • HIGHLAND BRIGADE • HIGHLAND CHIEFTAIN
HIGHLAND PRINCESS • HIGHLAND MONARCH • ORONSAY
CHUSAN • ORONTES • ORCADES • ALCANTARA • HIMALAYA
STRATHMORE • ORION • MALOJA • OTRANTO • MAURETANIA
There are also SPECIAL VIRGINIA CORK TIPPED
for those who prefer them.
BENSON (3 HEDGES LTD ■ OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
TBW/ISS
ADD
without FAG!
WITH A
£23/io/-
personal portable
ADDING MACHINE
Thousands of country as well as city users.
Here’s a “lifesaver” for the man who is plagued with “doing
the books. Contex eliminates tedious additions, and exaspera-
ting errors. Contex supplies the answers with infallible accuracy
in £.s.d., whole numbers, decimals, weights or measures Any’
one can use it efficiently after 5 minutes’ practice.
Handsome
carrying case,
55/- extra.
fdf
Write to
SYDNEY:
169 Liverpool St.
ADELAIDE:
29 Grenfell St.
MELBOURNE
375 Collins St
PERTH:
C. Stott & Co.,
Howard St.
BRISBANE:
256-278 Wickham St.,
Valley
Also at:
HOBART, LAUNCESTON,
DEVONPORT
Business Rollery.Etc
The Titanium Story
Wednesday of last week
Austral Malay Tin (Sydney)
announced that it was abandon-
ing its option over the Jerusalem
Creek (Evans Head, N.S.W.)
property of Titanium Minerals,
Ltd., following the receipt of a
report on an exhaustive analysis
of a sample of the mineral-
bearing sand by the C.5.1.R.0.
In the announcement to the Press
no values were given, but it is
believed that the tin content of
the wash reported on by the
C.5.1.R.0. was minute, and of
no commercial value.
For two or three weeks prior
to the abandonment of the
option there were optimistic
stories circulating around Pitt-
street to the effect that early
estimates of 3ylb. tin to the yard
would be sustained; in
the circumstances Austral
Malay, which received the
C.5.1.R.0. report on June 9, was
wise in making a decision about
the option as soon as possible,
though it was entitled to wait
until the end of this month
before announcing it.
Announcement of its decision
on June 16 cut short—for a day
or two —unwarranted specula-
tion in the shares. During last
week the ss, Titanium scrip had
sold as high as 13s. On June 17
they sold down to 75.; then, on
new market “furphies,” they
started to recover, but relapsed
to 6s.
The most spectacular part of
Titanium’s Stock Exchange
career belongs to earlier this
year. After considerable boring
of the Jerusalem Creek property,
Austral Malay had samples of
the wash assayed, and results
were passed on to Titanium
Minerals, with reservations as to
checking. These assays led to
reports of 3£lb. tin values, though
they were not circulated by
Austral Malay. The ss. shares
leapt to 325. 6d.
Austral Malay was aware that
assays of low-grade tin-ore were
difficult and unreliable, especially
when, as in this case, there could
be interference by a preponder-
ance of titanium minerals. So
duplicates of some of the samples
were sent for checking to three
other independent sources in
Sydney, to the Geological Survey
Department of Malaya and to
England.
Figures from the first four
sources soon showed a very
much lower tin content than
indicated in the first assays, and
this fact was announced by
Austral Malay on April 14.
Titanium shares promptly
slumped to under ss. They then,
on market gossip, recovered to
last week’s figure of 135., until
the C.5.1.R.0. report confirmed
the low tin and gold values
reported by Austral Malay on
April 14. The vision of fabulous
tin values thereupon vanished in
the eyes of realistic speculators.
Prospects of Titanium as a
producer of titanium minerals
(rutile, zircon, ilmenite, etc.) is
a matter for separate study. How
the co. is equipped, financially
and otherwise, to develop its
properties should be made known
to shareholders as soon Us
possible.
A more complete story of
events is due from Titanium
anyway. Though Titanium
directors thought fit on June 15
to state that Austral Malay had
received a report from the
C.S.l.R.O.—apparently without
knowledge of what it fore-
shadowed—up to the weekend
they had not elaborated on
Austral Malay’s bad news. And
already in the byways of the
market new share-boosting
“furphies” were abroad. The
Bulletin has ascertained that
one of these stories, mentioning
"There's a Miss Jones to see you, sir—with twins.”
overtures from a well-known
mining group, is unfounded.
A matter-of-fact statement
from the Titanium board would
settle rumors emanating from
outside the company, and let
shareholders know what the
future really holds for them. As
it is, the co.’s scrip has become
a plaything of speculators on the
Stock Exchange. “Suckers” not
“in the know” have lost many
thousands of pounds through
backing unofficial “stories” con-
cerning Titanium shares.
Oil-share Activity
Sydney was rife with rumors
on Monday about an oil-strike in
Papua. Anyone recently arrived
from New Guinea was the centre
of attention in city clubs and
brokers’ offices. Generally these
visitors, with complacently dead-
pan countenances, spoke of
an oil-strike as a matter
of course, but their stories
varied in color and drama.
(One was to the effect that oil
had already been struck at
Kariava and that the directors
took the lid off the well every
now and again to see that every-
thing was still okay.) Buying
or selling orders received
by sharebrokers from remote
Pacific islands were weighed for
their possible significance.
Guarded and completely non-
committal statements by people
connected with Oil Search or
Australasian Petroleum (the drill-
ing co.) were resurrected and
analysed for any ulterior mean-
ing. Castles of lucre were built in
the air on the probable market
reaction in the event of Omati
“coming in.”
The one obvious thing about
Omati No. 1 bore is that Aus-
tralasian Petroleum is keen on
the area; another bore is now
being drilled in close proximity,
and that hasn’t happened at any
of the previous areas selected.
Permeable conditions have been
revealed, and the gas-flow from
Omati No. 1 has some signi-
ficance. But, up to Monday, no
oil —officially, anyway.
On Friday Oil Search shares
went to 275., compared with
23 s, a week earlier. There are
now 8,324,206 shares issued by
Oil Search, Ltd., and that repre-
sents only a one-tenth interest in
Australasian Petroleum and
Island Exploration. The market
was thus valuing Omati pros-
pects, and what went with them,
at about £ll5 million. There
was much Vestibule speculation
as to what price Oil Search shares
might go to if an oil-strike was
announced. If they went to 505., in
any such an event the field would
be capitalised at about £2lO
million. They are rather awesome
figures even for a producing oil-
field. But the sharemarket is in
an excitable frame of mind.
Another thing was noticeable
in last week’s generally firmer oil-
share market. It was that new-
comers to the list were not parti-
cularly popular, Australian Oil
and Gas, with a call payable on
Saturday last (making 2s. paid)
was sold at KM, a share. Aus-
tralasian Oil Exploration, which
has been talking of uranium
interests (as well as oil permits
in W.A. and Queensland), was
traded-in extensively at ss. sd,
(Is. 6d.-paid shares). Oil Drilling
and Exploration (paid to a
shilling) opened at 25., and was
then traded at prices down to
Is. 9d,
The fact that the public no
longer loves oil-scrip for itself
alone, but now at least asks for
an oily smell as well as printer’s-
ink on the share-certificates, will
discourage underwriters of new
oil-floats and make promoters
hesitate. A little more of the
previous enthusiasm and the
whole mainland of Australia
would have been pegged-out.
The Ampol companies were
firmer on the Stock Exchanges
last week. In W.A. Rough
Range No. 1 is down, to 9704 ft.,
with the drill still in hard rock.
The drilling rate is now under
100 ft. a week. (Oil-sands wera
encountered in this same hole at
3650 ft.) Deep-drilling at Cape
Range is now to be undertaken.
Canmaking and Containers
During the year which
will end on June 30, J.
Gadsden Australia, Ltd.,
Gadsden-Hughes, Ltd., and Con-
tainers, Ltd., all engaged in mak-
ing a variety of metal cans and
other containers, should have
been busier than in 1952-53, in
spite of the falling-off in canned-
food exports.
The record fruit-crop last
summer was followed by great
canning activity, which tended to
offset the decline in the process-
ing of vegetables and meats.
There has been an exceptional
demand for paint, with conse-
quent call for cans. Sales cf
bottle-seals have been at a record
level.
Something like 60-70 p.c. of
Australia’s canned-food produc-
tion is exported, and the world
market for canned meat, jam,
fruit, etc., is becoming more com-
petitive. A shrinkage in the
food section is the most threaten-
ing danger to canmakers during
the 1954-55 term. The paint
industry is likely to remain busy,
and petroleum and wax products
promise to call for a record
quantity of cans and tins.
A dividend of 7 p.c. (tax-free)
from J. Gadsden was forecast in
the brokers’ memorandum of
issue a couple of months ago,
Gadsden-Hughes has been pay-
ing 7 p.c. Containers, Ltd.,
paid 6 p.c. for 1952-53, and
interim for the current term has
been at the rate of 7 p.c, p.a. All
three stocks are priced to yield
5.8 p.c. at present market prices.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers* Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL'’ ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“protecta” self-registering tills
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE colours
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Jackson* 1
vtxm
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Public Notice
WE, HANS LESPA. of Latvian nationality,
born at Riga, Latvia, and POSA-
ANTONIA LESPA. of Latvian nationality,
born at Libau, Latvia, both resident six
years in Australia, now both residing at
488 Bourke Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
intend to apply for naturalisation, under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
!
X
mm
>
#
J^Sfc
, rz**t~~-***~" —
Jumper uses machine
These are the hands of a former State Champion
broad-jumper of Queensland. Today they oper-
ate a book-keeping machine in Australia’s biggest
bank—the Bank of New South Wales.
Over 8,000 pairs of hands work in the
“Wales”— providing banking services essential
to modern trade and industry. They are willing
to work for you, too.
u, tl
/<
V 0^
Consuli and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5410C
THE
4
OVEN
A G A
Regd. Trade Mark
COOKER
has a special oven for
every cooking purpose;
ROASTING...
BAKING...
SIMMERING...
V and WARMING
df
df
This sparkling and spacious Cooker
enables you to cook everything at once:
roast a joint, bake a cake, simmer
sauces, heat soups, cook vegetables and
warm plates, all at the same time.
The Aga Model E has three hotplates,
too, in addition to the four automatic-
ally adjusted ovens. Meals are prepared
almost without attention. There is no
fuss, no bother with Aga, no waiting
for ovens to heat, no constant stoking!
Service is immediate, day and night,
for the Aga burns continuously. There
are no fires to light, no smoke, no
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in New Zealand in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for Aga Cooker
and Bendix Home Washer
280
■|c The correct grade
of coke now in
ample supply.
fumes, and a rub-over with a clean,
damp cloth keeps the Aga’s shining
vitreous enamel immaculate.
The Aga is the world’s most economi-
cal Cooker, too! Thermostatic control
ensures that no matter how much or
how long you cook, you cannot exceed
the modest maximum amount specified
by guarantee.
POST TO-DAY FOR A FREE LEAFLET
NEW SOUTH WALES _ _ _ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
BUEENSLAND _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Sts., Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST BROS. LTD., Perth
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Scene: The Albert Hall.
Occasion: Mass-meeting follow-
ing the Conservative Womens
Conference. Speaker : The
Prime Minister.
In high fettle, Sir Winston
Churchill gave this audience —
long regarded as one of the
Conservative party’s most
sensitive barometers —a resume
of his two-and-a-half years in
office. His address was packed
with Churchillisms. As was
evident from the advance-copy
of his speech, some were puck-
ishly forethought; but, equally,
others were spontaneous flashes
of merriment.
After referring briefly to the
state the country was in when
he took over, following six years
of war and a further six years
of Socialist administration, and
to the “gravest economic and
financial blunders” into which
blind partisanship and eagerness
for popularity had led them, he
went on succinctly to demon-
strate Britain’s recovery. He
then paid tribute to the achieve-
ments of his lieutenants and
summarily dismissed, one by
one, the chief misrepresentations
of his political opponents.
He relished wtih delightful
understatement and rich panto-
mimic gesture his digs at the
Socialists’ foibles love of
queues, controls and bureaucracy
—and reaffirmed his confidence
in the British people, in “hard,
patient, steadfast work without
undue courting of popularity”,
and, in his theme, “Set the
people free.”
This was the essential
Churchill, alert, gay, proud,
quick-witted, confident and of
immortal spirit. From a seat
directly in front of him he seemed
amazingly fit for his 79 years.
If last year’s stroke has left its
mark in a slightly distorted
mouth and in a noticeable
impediment to his speech, his
eyes are lively, and his face,
though waxy and cherubic, is
unlined.
Yet there was also much to
suggest that the body is frailer.
Tears welled into his eyes, and
he was obviously overcome by
the warmth of his reception. At
times there was a John o’ Gaunt
ring to his inflexions. He
poignantly corrected the begin-
ning of one sentence from “We
shall live to see...” to 11 You
may live to see
Helping Themselves
Churchill applied the same
tone of impending valediction
to his entreaty for a dispassion-
ate hearing of the M.P.s’ claim
for more pay. It was received
in pained embarrassment—the
one portion of his address that
excited disapproval and not
acclamation.
The public, of whom so many
suffer the same plight as their
elected legislators —inability to
live within their income—is
piqued and irate. How nice,
they say, to be able to grant
yourself a 50 p.c. increase in pay!
Other issues, such as the fact
that members have to bear their
own expenses and are cruelly
underpaid by comparison with
other countries, carry little force.
Then there are the old folk, the
war pensioners and those
struggling on small fixed in-
comes. There are rising
waters of wage-claims beating
against the flood-gates. Will
not the M.P.s’ blinkered self-
interest cause the dam to burst?
There are also important
matters of principle, expressed
with furious vehemence by “The
Times.” M.P.s have no right
to compensate themselves for
rises in the cost of living. They
are responsible for it. Member-
ship of the Commons must not
develop into an attractive career
with non-contributory pensions
—and slavish adherence to the
party-machines. It is wrong,
thunders “The Times”, that
M.P.s should pay their own
expenses. Therefore, give them
recompense in kind, expenses
allowances, secretarial assistance
and so on; but don’t allow
them to have a flat increase in
pay.
In the event, the idea of an
amendment which the
Chancellor recommended mem-
bers to support—providing for
an expenses allowance of up
to £5OO a year, was eloquently
torn to shreds in the debate and
subsequently defeated.
Revue Walkabout
A glance down the London
playbill proves that just about
one half of the 36 advertised
shows are on the lighter side —
singing and dancing or farce.
Of these, at least seven are
revues. There have, in fact,
been four revue premieres in
less than three weeks. Too
many? Perhaps. But theatre
folk must live. The holiday
season is on us and managements
must cater for the theatre’s
“passing trade.” This is a
perilous venture, for not only
are production costs heavy, but
an exceptionally warm summer
can empty the theatres. Hence
the popularity of the intimate
revue which costs compara-
tively little to put on.
After three such in one week,
this playgoer finds himself a
triffle dizzy from his reactions
to sophistication and able to
express himself in prose only
with difficulty. (Rhymed
couplets, feminine endings and
pungently-expressed topicalities
are catching.)
“Going to Town” (Sf. Martin s
Theatre) is a refurbished edition
of a revue from the Lyric,
Hammersmith. The sketches
and lyrics are the work of Alan
Melville and Paul Dehn. Mr.
Melville is an old hand whose
long practice has, perhaps,
rather taken the edge off his
impact. His rhyming is ingenious
and superlatively expert, but his
one-time sureness of theatrical
effect is less evident in his
sketches. The skit on a music-
hall family, brash and facile
after a lifetime on the boards,
is a meritorious exception. Mr.
Dehn, who is a poet as well as
a comparative newcomer to
the theatre, introduces freshness,
sentiment and tenderness to his
lyrics. His mordant take-off of
the yellow press in search of
dirt is richly satirical. A hard-
working team of ten (5 m., 5 f.)
has three principals, all of whom
have their individual moments.
Maybe they too have become
a little hard-and-fast, for they
seem less amenable to production
than the other players whose
acting is better and commend-
ably versatile. Surprisingly,
“Going to Town” enjoys tax-
remission as “culture.”
“Cockles and Champagne,’
at the Saville, is less / a revue
than a spectacular cabaret
spliced with an incongruous
dash of the music-hall. By
popular standards there is some-
thing for all tastes, including
the “blue.” Unfortunately, as
sometimes happens in show-
business, the many hands who
combined to provide this lavish
fare badly over-reached them-
selves. The first night was too
long and marred by stage-
mismanagement. And the
second night—our night—was
jumpy from reaction and a
hurried rearrangement of the
programme. No one seemed to
know who was who or what
was what. The show may now
have settled down.
“Do Look In” at the tiny
private Irving Theatre is sub-
stantially Australian creation.
It is devised and produced by
Trafford Whitelock, now of
the 8.8. C., who must have set
up a record by staging a late-
night revue that is quite devoid
of questionable gags. His pro-
duction has style but is a little
too swift, becoming breathless
in its anxiety not to drag, and
could be improved visually.
Hugh Hastings’s contributions
as actor are keenly pointed
in the best revue tradition (he
is not new to this medium), but
he would have been well advised
to have omitted his fatuous
parody on “Seagulls Over
Sorrento.”


33-39 HUNTER St M
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
ORANGE and
TAM WORTH
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
ODR WILL is first and foremost a business
'VT'OUR Will is probably the most important document that you will
ever sign. Failure to treat it as a business matter of the highest
importance may prove costly to your family.
The best procedure is to discuss your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited, The Company has more than 65
years experience in Estate administration and is well qualified to guide
you in your planning.
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by a Solicitor.
This will involve the appointment of an Executor and Trustee. If you
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as sole Executor —or jointly
with a relative or friend—you will be following the lead of many of
our wisest and most successful citizens.
The services Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has to offer, and
the charges, are set out in the Company’s helpful and informative booklet.
Your Executor and Trustee.” ’Phone 80377 or write for a copy to-day.
DIRECTORS;
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.0., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN 0. LEWIS;
D, R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
James Hardie Asbestos, Ltd.
TPHOUGH a comparative newcomer on
1 ’Change, the scrip—it was listed as
recently as 1952—0 f this old-established
organisation ranks high in the invest-
ment category. The price of the parent
co.’s f.-p. £1 shares advanced from
41s. 6d. a year ago to 50s. early in 1954,
reached 535. at the end of March, and
rose to 545. ( cum . Is. 6d. final div.),
following publication of the latest
accounts, lift in the div. from 8 p.c. to
12| p.c., and announcement of a one-
for-ten bonus share-issue (£115,000) to
those on the register at May 14. The
gift will lift paid capital to £1,265,000,
which also includes £631.227 of bonus-
scrip scattered in 1948 and 1951.
Of the 12£ p.c. div., p.c. was paid
from a tax-free reserve, in which there
is still £129,726, and the final distribu-
tion was at the rate of 15 p.c. p.a. On
£1,265,000 of capital 15 p.c. would call
for £112,027 less profit than was claimed
last term. Buyers recently offered 495.
for scrip with no sellers offering. At
495. the return would be 5.1 p.c. on a \2\
p.c. div. basis, or 6.1 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
distribution. With things as they are 15
p.c. would appear to be a reasonable
expectation for the current term.
The group consists of parent holding
co. and two main operating subsidiaries,
James Hardie Asbestos Pty,, Australia,
and James Hardie Asbestos Pty., New
Zealand. A third and smaller offshoot,
Asbestos Mines Pty. (N.S.W.), supplies
some of the raw material to the group’s
half-dozen factories in the Common-
wealth-—one each in N. S. Wales and
Victoria and two each in Queensland and
Westralia—and one at Penrose, across
the Tasman. The principal products are
absestos-cement flat and corrugated
sheets, guttering, down-pipes and flue-
pipes, water-pipes, con-
duit, “Tilux,” brake-linings, insulating
materials and terra-cotta roofing tiles. A
jointly-owned concern, in which Wun-
derlich, Ltd,, is the other partner, turns
out asbestos-cement sheets, etc., in
South Australia,
For the most part demand for the co.’s
products has run ahead of expanding
factory output during the post-war years,
and the growth in turnover and increase
in efficiency have more than taken care
of buoyant costs. Even during the 1953
term, when output of some of the fac-
tories receded, net earnings took a leap
of £93,432, due in part to lower allow-
ance for depreciation. Last term sales
gathered momentum as the year advanced,
costs were steadier and the rate of Aus-
tralian co.-tax was lighter. The improve-
ment in declared net earnings, however,
was only £7942:
Parent 00.
ar - _ ~ To Re- Re-
oJ.. Prone. Dividends. serves. serves.t
£ £ £ £
Reserves capitalised, £248,513 .. 881,017
1949 •• , 82 > 969 81P-C- = 65,039 17,930 398,947
Added reserves. £3948 .. .. 402,895
1950. .104,028 10 p.c. = 76.551 27,477 430,372
Added reserves, £3248 .. .. 433,620
1951. .364,605 10 p.c. = 76,551 288,054 721,674
Consolidated Figures.
Added reserves, £3334 .. .. 1,910,253
Reserves capitalised, £382,714 .. 1,527,539
1952. .200,403 8 p.c. ■= 91,929 108,474 1,636,013
Added reserves, £3451 .. .. 1,639,464
1953. .293,835 8 p.c. = 92,000 201,835 1,841,299
Reserves appear on acquisitions of
assets, £6913 .. .. .. .. 1,848,212
Added reserves, £78,572 .. .. 1,926,784
1954. .301,777 12* p.c. =143,750 158,027 2,084,811
t Subject to goodwill, £98,449 at 31/3/’54.
The £301,777 of profit was written after
dropping £78,572 from somewhere into
reserves, allowing a liberal £354,400 (up
£184,533) for depreciation and a gener-
ous £324,045 (down £36,853) for taxa-
tion, and sending £27,170 (down £3844)
to the employees’ provident fund. The
£301,777 was 23.8 p.c. on capital as it
now stands, or 26.5 p.c, on capital as it
stood at the close of accounts, as against
25.5 p.c. and 17.4 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding years.
There were healthy movements in
balance-sheet figures:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
_ ~ , 1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,150,000 £1,150,000 £1,150,000
Reserves .. .. 1,636,013 1,841,300 2,084,811
Mortgage .. .. 300,000 300,000 300,000
Overdraft .. .. 238,805 571.776
Creditors, etc. .. 721,566 650,487 1,040,587
Tax provision ~ 562,468 709,188 614,496
Pinal dividend .. 46,000 46,000 86,250
£4,654,862 £5,268,751 £5,276,144
Freeholds, plant,
etc 2;097,738 2,298,324 2,231,209
Shares . . .. 171,658 173,433 158,983
Stocks .. .. 1,456,968 1,889,865 1,736,023
Debtors .. .. 763,214 741,846 868,160
Cash, bonds .. 66,826 66.835 183,370
Goodwill ... .. 98,448 98,448 98,449
£4,654,852 £5,268,751 £5,276,144
To wipe out the overdraft (£571,776 at
the previous balance), carry an extra
£126,314 of book debts and strengthen
the holding of cash, etc., by £116,535,
stocks were reduced by £153,842 and the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.
was increased by £390,100. Stocks,
which dominate the financial structure,
appear at the lower of cost or market
value. Including shares in other cos.,
the year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£905,093) was
£310,565.
As for the current term, demand pro-
mises to continue at a high level, and
wage and other costs look like remaining
steadier than they have been for some
time, all of which augur well for another
good showing at next balance.
Edwards Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
■jPDWARDS DUNLOP’S scrip is sound
industrial equity, which has always
commanded a high premium in the mar-
ket. Still, for reasons to be stated pre-
sently, the return to shareholders hasn’t
been as good as the declared rates of
dividend and periodic new share-issues
might suggest.
Well-entrenched, financially and other-
wise, the co. handles all kinds of paper,
printers’ requisites, fancy-goods, etc. It
enjoys Commonwealth-wide connections,
a subsidiary in London looks after over-
seas buying, and the management, which
has grown up in the business, has ex-
hibited an aptitude for adapting the under-
taking to changes in the economic climate.
Post-war development has been rapid,
earnings have been buoyant and conser-
vatively stated, reserves are strong (over
one-and-a-half times paid capital at April
30 last), and the div., steady at 10 p.c.
for the 11 years to 1949, rose to \\\ p.c.
in 1950, followed by 12| p.c. for the next
three years and then 15 p.c. last term.
Since 1947 £345,424 of new share-capi-
tal, which brought with it £319,235 of
share-premiums, has been gathered, mak-
ing paid capital £721,329—the last
£120,231 of it was issued at a premium
of 50 p.c, a month before the close of
last accounts. Over the last seven years
divs, have averaged 12 p.c., which is
equal to only 6.3 on the total amount
(capital and share-premiums) put up by
shareholders during this period. Simi-
larly 15 p.c, would be equal to a wink
under 8 p.c., or 10 p.c. on the last
£120,231 of capital already referred to.
The higher the rate of premium
charged the more unreal, and therefore
misleading, becomes the nominal or de-
clared rate of dividend. Many, there-
fore, fail to see the virtue of charging
the owners of a business a premium on
capital put up by them to finance ex-
pansion of their own undertaking, and
at the same time question the wisdom of
the practice in a period when capital is
under increasing fire from the Left.
The investor who bought, say 100 new
E.D. shares at 645. 6d. in June, 1947,
and exercised his rights to all new issues
since, would now hold 176 shares at an
average cost of 555. Id. each, giving a
return of 5.4 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
At the current market price of 595. 6d
he can also see a capital gain of 4s. sd.
per share (£3 8-odd) if he cares to
take it. The immediate return at 595, 6d.
is 5 p.c. on the basis of last terra’s distri-
bution. A feature which intrigues the
market is the £1,130,263 of reserves
(51s. 4d, per share), and the possibility
that some of them might be capitalised
in the not-too-distant future.
Last term more paper of all kinds
became available from both overseas and
local sources, and for the most part
demand kept in step with the increased
supplies, and prices strengthened. Turn-
over (amount not stated) was “consider-
ably larger,” and declared net earnings
took a leap of £30,541;
a . To Re- Re-
Apr#, Profit. Dividends. ■ serves, serves.
£ £ £0 £
1949.. 52,462 10 p.e. = 46,865 6,097 720,864
Profit sale of assets, £17,043 .. .. 737,907
1950.. 64,454 11$ p.c. = 62,005 2,449 740,856
Unexplained addition, £199,438 .. 939,794
1951.. 75.492 12$ p.c. = 68,895 6,597 946,391
Share premiums, etc., £50,085 .. 996,476
1952.. 84,229 12$ p.c, = 72,020 12.209 1,008,685
1953.. 83,632 12$ „ „ 75,145 8,487 1,017,172
From inner reserves, etc, £28,977 .. 1,046,149
Share premiums, £60,115 .. ..1,106,264
1954.. 114,173 15 p.c. = 90,174 23,999 1,130,263
The £114,173 of profit was arrived at after
allowing an unstated amount for taxa-
tion, writing-off the year’s expenditure of
£23,928 on plant, etc., and earmarking
£5OOO to be spent on a new goods-lift and
£15,000 for the employees’ provident
fund. The £114,173 was 18.9 p.c. on the
£601,158 of capital actually employed,
as against 12.9, 14.6, 13.7, 11.7 and 11.3
p.c. back to 1949, The disclosure of
£28,977 of inner reserves, mainly from
provision against possible recession in
stock values, can be taken as an indica-
tion that the board is satisfied, with the
outlook in this respect.
Balance-sheet movements are encour-
aging, too;
„ , , 1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £601,158 £601,158 £721,389
Reserves .. .. 1,008,685 1,017,172 1,130,263
Creditors, etc.* .. 871,508 321,303 574,477
Tax reserve .. 432.050 294,897 209,112
Final div. ~ 18.786 18,786 33,815
£2,932,187 £2,253,316 £2.669,056
Freeholds . . 177,685 178,598 192,248
Stocks .. .. 1,272,549 916,725 1,001,678
.U,ui,ors . . . . 1,198,584 896,540 1,149,234
Cash, bonds and
shares .. .. 283,419 261,453 325,896
£2,932,187 £2,253,316 £2,669,056
* Including provisions, etc.
The improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£1,659,404) was £219,692.
The growth of £252,694 in book-debts and
of £84,953 in stocks is evidence of ex-
panding activity, to help meet which
£253,174 was added to the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors, etc.
Cottee’s Passiona, Ltd.
nrHIS prosperous cordial and jam
A manufacturer’s £1 ords., which fluc-
tuated between 335. 9d. and 425. in 1953,
last sold at 505., cum the tax-free final
dividend of 2s. 2.4 d. and cum
rights to a new one-for-three par
issue. Allowing for the div. and broker-
age, and exercise of the rights,
the net cost per share to a buyer at
50s. would be reduced to 40s. 10d., at
which figure the yield on a 15 p.c. basis
is 7.3 p.c. Rights to the issue may pro-
vide a cheaper buying opportunity; if
they become available at, say, 20s. an
investor would get a fully-paid share for
40s. 6d., and, on a 15 p.c. basis, a yield
of 7.4 p.c.
Cottee’s was formed in 1927, but
didn’t join the Sydney ’Change-list till
October ’52. Shareholders have done
well out of the co. since the last war
gave a powerful stimulus to Australian
food-processors and engendered inflation-
ary and other influences which meant
further prosperity when it ended. In 1942
ord. capital was £20,000; it now stands
at £150,000, of which no less than £85,000
is accounted for by gift-scrip issues. In
the 11 years to 1952 profits before tax
averaged £30,106, ord.-holders collected
cash divs. averaging 17.8 p.c., and a lot
of money was left in the business besides.
Here are tne earnings for the following
two years;
, Dividends —^
Prefs. Ord.
5& 8 To Re- Re-
March, Profit, p.c. serves, serves.
£££ £ £ .
Revaluation assets, £65,000 .. .. 157,896
Reserves capitalised, £65,000 .. .. 92,896
1953 .. 34,961 3,514 15 p.c. = 22,500 8,947 101,843
1954 .. 43,893 3,514 16 „ ~24,000 16,379 118,222
Reserves now total £118,222, which raises
the assets-backing per £1 ord., including
the proposed issue, to 31s. lOd.
High-quality cordials, fruit-juices, jams,
fruit-spreads, peanut butter and jellies
are the principal lines Cottee’s turns out
from its Leichhardt, Sydney, headquar-
ters and branch factories in Melbourne
and Sydney, which are partly supplied
by its orchard properties in N. S. Wales
and Queensland. The co. also
operates factories in South Africa
and New Guinea. The products
are distributed to grocers, milk-
bars and other retail outlets in
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth and Newcastle by its own sales-
vans; agents look after other cities and
country centres.
Four franchised bottling cos., with
which Cottee’s is closely associated,
aerate and bottle Passiona and other
concentrates in Sydney, Melbourne, Bris-
bane and Perth. These cos. are reported
to be making good progress; last term
Cottee’s collected £2060 in dividends
from them, as against £792 in 1953. In
addition, there are some 100 licensed
bottlers throughout the Commonwealth,
most of which have been bottling car-
bonated Passiona for 10 years or more.
Sales in the year to March 31 last
increased by 29 p.c., but profits before
tax fell by £12,095 to £66,893. Directors
explain that price-cuts caused a drop in
gross profits, which, however, was largely
offset by economies resulting from higher
turnover. After providing £21,027 less
for tax at £23,000, net profit was £43,893
(up £8932), which covered the pref.
charge (£3514) and 26.9 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal, compared with 20.9 in 1953. A 1 p.c.
bonus was added to the 15 p.c. div.,
mainly, it seems, to mop up remaining
tax-free funds. The whole of the 16 p.c.
distribution was tax-free in shareholders’
hands. There is nothing in the outlook
to suggest a slip in sales in the current
term, but the outcome depends to a cer-
tain extent on weather conditions.
Balance-sheet movements were in the
right direction:
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref. .. £68,300 £68,300 £68,300
Ord 85,000 150,000 150,000
Reserves .. 139,248* 101.843 118,222
Mortgage .. 38,498 87,258 35,960
Overdraft .. 81,185 14,415 87,144
Tax provision .. 80,000 66,452
Creditors ~ 78,248 94,291 75,335
Final div. .. 16,757 18,257
£490,479 £562,864 £619,670
Freehold and
leaseholds .. 110,521 175,236 181,584
Plant, vehicles,
etc 73,229 91,238 127,214
Shares in fran-
chised cos. .. 1,336 15,849 15,849
Stock .. ~ 258,235 210,043 187,456
Debtors .. 46,741 69,859 104,804
Cash, etc. .. 417 639 2,763
£490,479 £562,864 £619,670
* Includes tax provision and final div.
The co. used retained profits, £72,729
from its bankers and £22,587 released by
a reduction in stocks to clip £32,504 off
the amounts owing to the taxgatherer and
other creditors, spend £42,324 net on
premises and plant and to carry £34,945
more book-debts. The new capital should
help improve the ratio of liquids to cm\
rent commitments. Of the pref. capital,
£3300 carries 8 p.c. and £65,000 5 p.c.;
the latter is held by the A.M.P. Society
and is redeemable over 13 years from
1956.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys. 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents
Trade Marks.—Advt.
A SOUND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION
Providing profit-
able protection
for policyhold
ers, while pro-
viding funds
to assist
Australia's
develop-
ment.
Every Year
a Bonus Year
Ulii
nil
Mill
■MU
lUu
■ in
■ AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN Llfi
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BWBO6I.
TO-DAY'S PROTECTION TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
This Prospectus is dated the ninth day of June, 1954.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated in the State of Victoria on 19th December, 1928, under the Compan.es Act 1928)
Prospectus of an Issue at par (£100) of £1,500,000
f
o
o
rm
/
niDIEMABLE 31st MARCH 1958, 31st MARCH 1960, or
REDEEMABLE ... T opf/on If applicants, specified at time of application)
Payable on application, or by instalments 25% on application and 75% on
31st MARCH 1964
or before 30th Sept., 1954
application ffiSSfcSS
S %& ’"JrtJz SITTSS&ftS
Australian Sank L«nd
or The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
DIRECTORS oia, irhat,,
FREDERIC ERNEST BUNNY, Monato Close, Kooyong: Solicitor (
MAURICE SHMITH, Hotel Windsor. Spring Street, Melbourne; Company
Director (Deputy Chairman). , Elsternwick;
TIMOTHY GEORGE JONES, "Rlppomea, Hotham Street,
NEWTON, 209 Domain Road, South Yarra; Warehouseman.
S Ss LANE. 28 Albany Road, Toorak; Company Director
WaSr Sard GRENVILLE HISCOCK, 65 Huntingtower Road,
Malvern; Solicitor.
Tfct Perpetual SSS 5f United,
me rerpei 100-104 Queen Street, Melbourne.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS TO THE ISSUE
lan Potter & Co.. 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AUDITORS' REPORT
60 Collins Place, Melbourne. C.l.
25th May. 1954.
The Directors, T ,
Industrial Acceptance Corporation Ltd., .
60 Collins Place, MELBOURNE, G.I.
Dea A S Sl Auditors of Industrial Acceptance Corporation Limited, we report
that the net profits of the Company in respect of the three years ended
31st December. 1953. were as set out hereunder:-
Year ended 31st December, 951 £1 407 690
Year ended 31st December, 952 f l T04Q44
Year ended 31st December, 1953 £1,756.945
Tn arrivina at the above-mentioned figures no charge has been made to
l A for taxes paid or payable on income earned during that period, and
Sf of Subsidiary Companies are only taken into account to the extent
of dividends received from them in each year. .
The Paid-up ds^l^
1 December! ?951. 31st December. 1952, and 31st December. 1953,
Wete s% CiSiwe Preference Shares: 1951 1952 1953
Paid-up Capital at year end £500,00° £ 500,000 £5^ uou
Dividends 5% 5% 5%
o;
2±“ a t f v the paid-up Ordinary Capital was increased to £2,000,000 and
on* 30th 1954, a final dividend of 6d. per share (10%) was paid on
the increased capital. , .
No accounts have been prepared for audit in respect of any period since
31st December, 1953. ... t
This Report was prepared for inclusion in a Prospectus for the issue ot
£1 500.000 Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock.
Yours faithfully,
L. B. WALLACE,
R. G. WALLACE,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.).
STATUTORY INFORMATION
1. There are no founders, management or deferred shares.
2. The minimum amount which in the opinion of the Directorsmust be
raised by the present issue of debenture stock m respect of working
is £1.500,000. The amount of preliminary expenses of £45 000 will
underwriting, commission and brokerage) which is estimated at £45.000 will
be paid out of the income of the Company.
3. No shares or debentures have been issued or agreed to b «
within the two preceding years as fully or partly paid up otherwise than
to cash No amount has been paid within the two preceding years or is
intended to be paid to any promoter.
4. The total amount paid within the two preceding years as commission
or b-okerage for procuring subscriptions for shares and debenture s
the Company was £136,050 and on the present issue oommlMion Is payable
to the Underwriting Brokers at the rate of 2 per cent., out of wldch brokerage
at the rate of 14 per cent, will be paid to Members of recognised blocK
Exchanges in Australia on the nominal amount of debenture stock allotted In
respect of applications lodged by them.
5 The dates of and parties to any material contract (not be fl
contract entered into in the ordinary course of the business carriedl on
intended to be carried on by the Company or a contract entered into mor
San two yLrs preceding the date of issue of this Prospectus) and a
reasonable toe and place at which such material contracts or a copy
thereof may be inspected are as follows: , , . . ..
(a) Supplemental Trust Deeds dated 9th December. 1952, and 2nd April,
1954. made between the Company and The Perpetual Executors
Trustees Association of Australia Limited.
(b) Three Debentures date 12th February, 1954, and two Debentures
1 dated 24th May. 1954, given by the Company to The Perpetual
Executors and Trustees Association of Australia Limited.
<c) Acknowledgments of indebtedness, dated respectively 15th December,
(C) V 952 Lith April. 1954, and 4th May. 1954. given by the Company
to The Perpetual Executors and Trustees Association of Australia
(d) Agreements dated 27th January, 1953. 10th Noyaaber. *“ d
3rd June, 1954, between the Company an^ T William lan Potter.
Henry Arthur Pitt. Cecil Thomas Looker, Noel Keith Miller and
Geoffrey Donald Brown, carrying on business as lan Potter a
for the underwriting of Debenture Stock and Shares. rvffl,-.
Copies of the above-mentioned Agreements may be inspected at the Uthce
of the Company set out hereunder during usual business hours.
6. The Date of Allotment of Debenture Stock subscribed pursuant to
this Prospectus shall not be later than 31st August, 1954. p , .
7. The Auditors of the Company are Lionel Ballard Wallace and Robert
Gordon Wallace (practising as L. B. Wallace 6 Son), Chartered Accountants
(Aust.), 60 Collins Place, Melbourne, 233 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, and
31 Mary Street, Brisbane. r IA4
8. The solicitors of the Company are Messrs. Corr & Corr, ot IU4
Queen Street, Melbourne. . n ... .
9. The secretary of the Company Is Donald Hugh Ross, of 60 Collins
Place, Melbourne, Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
10. The Company has established a place of business in
New South Wales at 200 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
d
fd
f
d
|»ert Harper & Co., Ltd.
THOUGH in the difficult
dry-goods trade, where com-
ion is keen and margins
ow, Harper’s is a sound
k* offering a satisfactory
age return, with reasonable
I-term prospects and good
rity for capital,
he co. manufactures, imports
distributes a wide range of
;ery lines; its warehouses,
tered throughout the Cora-
iwealth, are fed from well-
ipped factories at Melbourne,
ney, Brisbane and Perth ; and
co. trades on short-term both
>uyer and seller. The policy
been to keep the div. steady
j p -C —an annual event since
B—and8 —and sweeten it with bonus
itions in the better years,
ince the war an expanding
ne market, spurred by
nigration and inflation, has
orbed the increasing output
the factories, on which a lot
uoney has been spent recently
extensions and modernisation,
hough turnover kept on
landing, net earnings dropped
m £49,730 in 1949 to £32,138
1952 —due mainly to steeply
ng wage and other costs,
ecially inter-State transport—
i then advanced by £4269 in
following term and by
5,697 for the 12 months
/ered by the latest accounts:
. Dividends —^
A B
Pref. Ord. Ord. Re-
Profit. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. 6 p.c. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
10 p.c.
.. 37,581 10,500 24,000 2400 684,151
Fnexp. addition, £942 . ■ 685,093
rofit, sale assets, £5321 .. 690,414
8 p.c.
.. 32,138 10,500 19,200 2400 690,452
'rofit, sale assets, £5555 .. 696.007
.. 36,407 10,500 19,200 2400 700,314
'rofit, sale assets, £504 .. 700,818
:o long-service leave pro-
vision, £9,000 .. ..691,818
10 p.c. 6 p.c.T
.. 63,104 10,500 26,400 1200 716,822
Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO. f For
six months.
ist term’s £63,104 of profit,
ritten after allowing whatever
is considered necessary/for de-
eciation and taxation, covered
e 7 p.c, pref. div. (£10,500) and
!.7 p.c. on the £280,000 of ord.
ipital. On paid capital
430,000) and reserves
716,822) combined, the years
*ofit was only 5.5 p.c., which
nphasises the importance of
iserves as a factor in the
ividend-rates as well as the
ifficulty of squeezing much
rofit out of this class of trade.
l 2 p.c. bonus was added to the
p.c. div,, making 10 p.c. for
le year, and the average for the
ist decade 9.2 p.c.
It was not until last term that
le co. began to reap the full
lenefits from both output and
mit costs of recent capital outlay
m plant, etc., including some
very modern” packing equip-
nent installed at the Melbourne
actory only a year ago. Wdn
he easing of import restrictions,
iteadier wage-rates and distn-
mting costs, and lower rate of
10.-tax, the co. itself was able to
show a more marked improve-
uent in net earnings, despite the
fact that the increase in retail
grocery sales throughout the
Commonwealth for the 12
months of 1953 was little more
than one-third of the previous
year’s increase.
There is nothing to worry
about in the finances:
Paid capital— 1953.
Pref £150,000 £160,000
Ord .. 240.000 280,000
“B" .. 40,000 ' „
Reserves .. 700,314 i 16,82
Tax reserve .. 63.977 60.259
Overdraft •• 33,057
Creditors, etc.
Final dividend 10,800 18 .8
£~U376,791 £1,372,851
Freeholds .. 390,401 890.228
Plant, etc. .. 318,009 317,657
Stocks .. 331.492 824,568
Debtors .. 176,639 173,
Govt, securities, „ Q „ ,
cash, etc. . . 80.250 86,654
Goodwill .. 80.000 80 ' 000
£1,376,791 £1,372,861
During the year £27,697 was
snipped off the overdraft. Of the
growth of £14,967 in the amount,
coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
£9OOO was provision for long-
service leave. The more-or-less
liquid surplus (£358,957) was
£17,032 stronger. On fixed assets
1:525 more was written-off than
ras spent, which suggests that the
yrogramme of expansion and
nodernisation is virtually
omplete.
The immediate outlook favors
mother good showing at next
valance. The f.-p. £1 ords. have
lad a fairly steady market
iround 335. over the last 12
uonths. The return at 335. is
5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
prefs, at 255. yield 5.6 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £7 2s. 7d. prefs.
and 655. 6d. ords.
One of the most spectacular of
recent developments in goldmin-
ing in Westralia has been the
enrichment at depth of Hill 50 at
Mt. Magnet. On June 11 the co.
reported that the main crosscut
on the 1060 ft. level had been
extended 180 ft., the last 20ft. of
which averaged 5 oz. gold per ton
over a width of 108 in. —a very
handy reserve for use as a
sweetener to ore from the rest of
the mine. For the 48 weeks to
May 8 the mill treated 88,737
tons for 50,9800 z. fine gold, an
average 11.49dwt. per ton. For
the last four weeks of the period
the feed averaged 13.35dwt. per
ton. Since June 30, 1953, the co.
has paid divs. totalling 6s. per
Is. share, and another Is. 6d. per
share is to go out on August 18
next, making aggregate distribu-
tions £625,000 since the co.
returned to the in
November, 1952. Paid capital
is £150,000, and the Is. shares,
which sold at 41s. each m
December, 1953, recently fetched
645. Two other cos. —Hill 50
Extended and Hill 50 Central
have taken up leases adjoining
Hill 50 in the hope that they
might meet with similar luck,
which is by no means certain.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Australia (paid
capital £52,219 in 2s. 6d. shares),
a prospecting concern in the
Western Mining Corp. stable, has
applied for leases and options in
the Cloncurry district (N.Q.), °n
which extensive showings of
uranium are said to have been
found. Any benefits from the
co.’s activities in connection with
uranium will belong 75 p.c. to
W.M.C. and 25 p.c. to G.M.A.
The latter co.’s shares, which had
dropped to Is. 3d. in the market
during 1953, fetched 9s. 6d. last
week.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The Governor and Lady Brooks,
attended by Captain T. Kirwan Taylor,
were at the opening of the Spotlight
Theatre’s presentation of “The Cure For
Love” at the Arrow. The vice-regal party
was received by the manager, Michael
Collins, and the company’s hostesses,
Mrs. V. Sisson and Misses Betty Fames
and Joan Cunliffe. A lovely garnet-red
satin gown was worn by Lady Brooks
with a white Arctic-fox fur. Red was
also chosen by Mrs. S. R. Birch for her
velvet evening-coat. Mrs, John Carrodus
wore a short evening-frock of black-and-
cyclamen-printed brocade with a blue-
fox cape ; Mrs. F. S. Walsh added to her
black evening-frock a jacket of cream-
and-pink Chinese brocade. Betty Excell
covered her frock with a full-length grey-
squirrel coat. *
V V #
A classical gown of magnolia-toned
French brocade was worn by Helen
Sutherland, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Cecil Maule, of Canterbury, for her wed-
ding at Melbourne Grammar School
with John Peter, only son of Colonel
Alex Dennett, M.L.A., and Mrs. Dennett,
of Caulfield. An Elizabethan collar and
a long train were features, and the finger-
tip tulle veil was held with a pearl coronet.
The bouquet was of magnolias. Matron-
of-honor was Mrs. William Rankin, the
bridesmaids June Buxton and the bride-
groom’s sister, Diana. Their gowns were
of moss-green velvet, and they wore
coronets of pearls with gun-metal trim-
mings to match their sandals. The bou-
quets were of green slipper-orchids.
Reception was at No. 9 Darling-street.
☆ * *
Madame Chambrelent’s current col-
lection of day-frocks has been designed
for retail in quality-salons at medium-
to-high prices. Elegant lines, colors and
materials are all in the Chambrelent
tradition, and fabrics comprise silk,
rayon, nylon and cotton, locally-made,
and imported.
Several frocks suitable for late-after-
noon wear were also adaptable for in-
formal-dining or party-wear. One
attractive frock, “Flemington,” made of
a mixture of rayon and nylon in dark-
and light-grey tonings, had a wide white
pique-bow at the neckline; black buttons
were used to give it a double-breasted
effect. Another, “About Town,” of deep-
brown alpaqa, was cut on button-through
lines, but with the belt discarded took on
the new Princess line. When worn with
the narrow tie-belt fullness was drawn
to the back of the skirt. Beneath a wide
Peter Pan collar a crisp white “clerical”
tie was a contrasting note.
Gay Day,” a slim, sleeveless cotton
frock, had a deep-purple pattern on
white. Unusual little pockets, were set
high in the wide revers, which extended
to the waist, forming a deep V-neckline.
“Cruise,” a silver-grey pure-silk-shirting
frock, was a simple button-thro ugh style.
A white rayon-faille patterned with a
tiny black sprig was used to make two
contrasting styles A simple, slim-skirted
one had push-up three-quarter-length
sleeves and a crossover bodice, with
inch-wide black edging finishing in a
flat bow at one side of the waist; the
other style had a wide, flaring skirt, a
black patent belt and a “scooped-out”
neckline. Very kind to the “difficult”
figure was “Gracious Lady.” Made in
pure silk in a soft-fawn shade patterned
in jade, green and white, it had un-
pressed pleats across the front of the
skirt and a plain back. The bodice fea-
tured a deep V-neck, a small collar across
the back and three-quarter-length sleeves.
* * *
Audiences at the Tivoli for the first
of the four matinees given by Florence
Desmond were fascinated to find that
this star can change not only her voice
but her whole appearance and personality
with each character she portrays. Her
sketch of Bette Davis holding a party
for the veteran winners of screen
“Oscars” was itself a winner. She por-
trayed Marlene Dietrich, Katherine Hep-
burn and Judy Holliday very cleverly;
but best of her caricatures were Olivia
de Haviland and Queen Victoria. Noted
among those enjoying the show were
Mrs. David Martin, Mrs. Gordon Chirn-
side and her niece, Jane Chirnside, Mrs.
Rod Andrews and Mrs. F. W. Tellick
More than 1000 attended Prince
Henry’s Hospital annual ball, held at
the Roy ale in the presence of the Gover-
nor and Lady Brooks, who were wel-
comed by the ball-president, Mr, I. L.
Schroder, and Mrs. Schroder. The ball-
room was decorated with poinsettias,
yellow “pokers,” hydrangeas, chrysan-
themums and gold-painted leaves, whilst
the small tables carried blue iris, gerberas
and croton-leaves.
The six debutantes; presented to their
Excellencies wore frocks of white nylon-
organza with bouffant skirts and fitted
bodies of white satin and organza. They
carried posies of deep-red carnations and
roses in silver holders.
Lady Brooks wore a pale-hyacinth-
blue French-crepe gown made with a full
skirt; the bodice had a wide shoulder-
drape, which finished in a fichu at the
back of the waist. Glittering diamente
was sprinkled over the drape and Lady
Brooks carried a presentation posy of
deep-gold roses.
In the official party were Mr. and Mrs.
W. K. Burnside (the latter, who is pre-
sident of the central council of auxiliaries,
chose a gown of Kelly-green organza
with a jewelled bodice), the Hon. Simon
Warrender and his wife (she in a sweep-
ing gown of dove-grey crepe contrasted
with a deep stole of shocking-pink satin),
Mr. and Mrs. L. J, Dooling (her gown of
delicate lace being in deep-brown ton-
ings), Dr. and Mrs. Murray Tallent, Col.
R. J. Wallis and the matron of Prince
Henry’s, Miss A. Morgan.
Mrs, Lytton Stephens has been preside-
ent of the board of management of the
Women’s Hospital for the past twelve
months; before that she had devoted
many years of service to the hospital in
many capacities. She has three daughters:
Mrs . Harold Clapp, Mrs. Ellery Ryan
(who is in England with her husband, a
recently-elected Fellow of the Royal
College of Surgeons) and Mrs. Jim For-
rest. Mrs. Stephens, who has travelled
extensively, spends her time between the
hospital, her Toorak home and the sea-
side at Portsea.
Bowls of yellow “pokers,” green
hydrangeas and scarlet holly-berries
decorated the nurses’ recreation-hall in
Tracy House when president Mrs, Lytton
Stephens and members of the board of
management gave a late-afternoon party
to thank Mrs. Frank Tait and her com-
mittee for organising their Mothers’ Day
Concert, which netted £2OOO for the
Women’s Hospital. Miss Florence Des-
mond, who had made a special trip from
Adelaide to star in the concert, received
a life-governorship. Mrs. Tait handed
over the cheque to Mrs. Stephens, but
before the party was over further dona-
tions from Conway Weickhardt—for
items from Miss Desmond and BBC.
pianist Harry Jacobsen— swelled the sum
by £250. Guests included Mrs. John
Casson, Mesdames W. Dooley, H. Cant-
well, E. M. Cornfoot, C. Weickhardt
and Noreen Reedy.
* # #
The American Women’s Auxiliary to
~* e Children’s Hospital celebrated its
23rd birthday by holding a luncheon at
the Palais de Dance, St. Kilda. In this
time the American Women’s Auxiliarv
has raised £35,000 for the hospital. Two
foundation-members, Mrs. Herbert Allen
and Mrs. E. G. Saenger, were among the
90 present. Mrs. J. Saulwick, the third of
the original members and still active on
the auxiliary, is at present in America.
SYDNEY
Gala previews of films in aid of
charity are becoming such a feature of
social life that the correct wear for such
do’s is deserving of notice. The premiere
of “Hobson’s Choice’ at Hoyts’ Double
Bay Theatre, arranged by the committee
of the Black-and-White Ball in aid of
the Blind Institution, provided many
examples of correct and lovely dressing,
although there were some strapless bouf-
fant dresses which seemed a bit out of
place, and some street dresses which
rather spoiled the “gala” effect.
Outstanding were Mrs. Dick Allen’s
long, narrow, black skirt worn with a
flame-jersey crossover top and a blue-
fox cape, and Mrs. Paul Cullen’s short,
pleated white lace accented by a brown-
mink cape. Among those who wore furs
of breath-taking beauty were Mrs. Noel
Vincent, Mrs. Alan Copeland, Mrs. L.
K. Martin and Mrs. Ernest Turnbull,
who, with Mrs. H. Livingston, were
with film-star Robert Newton. Mrs.
Livingston wore a ballerina of deli-
cate black lace with large pale-pink roses.
Mrs. Lennox Bode looked striking in a
white cloth coat over a slim dress, and
Mrs. Jim Coleman’s brilliantly-patterned
skirt, with its black-jersey top, had a
dashing American effect. Among those
selling programmes were Mrs. Graham
Crouch, Sue Playfair and Dinah Cullen,
who wore a particularly lovely white
guipure-lace top with a blue-grey taffeta
skirt.
* * *
There has been a certain Swedish flavor
about town this week with exhibitions at
David Jones’ three stores of what the
Swedes can do in art and manufacture.
The kitchen at the George-street store
particularly has the women gasping and
the men surreptitiously taking measure-
ments.
Cupboards are faced with pale-beech,
polished and finished with a washable,
stainless varnish. They have magnetic
catches and are all compartmented for
every type of utensil (the compartments
in the cutlery-drawer lift out in one piece,
so that the drawer can be cleaned).
Working-benches are broader than usual,
so that cupboards can be brought down
quite low and still leave room for work-
ing. Each has a little grille with a tray
underneath it on to which crumbs can
be swept. There are two drawers lined
and lidded with tin for bread and sugar
or anything that has to be kept specially
dry. Corner-space is utilised with a revolv-
ing cupboard, and windows also revolve,
so that they can be cleaned easily.
The stove has two ovens, one on top
of the other, and in the top one there is
a window and a light. This idea of seeing
what’s cookin’ ” is carried out in the
glass saucepans, fireproof and beautifully
designed. The kitchen-chair (of polished
beech) may be hoisted and adjusted to any
height and position. There are extra
benches which slide into the service-
bench; a special sink for rubbish-
disposal ; a tea-towel rack that swings out
cupboard; doors like wooden
blinds, plastic covered on the servery
cupboards, and plastic tiles on the floor.
The display of kitchenware (all stainless-
steel, glass or earthenware) and of fabrics
and glassware generally is a lesson in
achieving beauty in everyday things
through purity of line coupled with
imagination, and in making the decora-
tion follow and emphasise that line There
is a feeling of “quality” and good crafts-
manship about all these Swedish products
though in the realm of chinaware it is
clear that the English are still on top.
* ☆ *
The Theatre for Children at Reiby-
place, Circular Quay, has tried the experi-
ment during its present season of holding
two sessions, one at 11 am. and the other
at 2.30 p.m., and have been so successful
it has extended the season for another
three Saturdays, the last of which will be
on July 10. The play, by Rosemarie
Benjamin, is about a little girl who dreams
of a toy-shop in which the toys come to
life, and includes a shadow-show. The
entranced attention of the 100 or so
children who fit into the theatre makes it
very clear that children do not have to be
taught to love the theatre but merely to
be offered it.
* ☆ *
New American way to describe people
who just can t manage; “They're so cope-
less.”
To aid the Dr. Barnardo Homes the
Ladies’ Auxiliary of the Royal Empire
Society entertained about 100 guests at a
musicale last Wednesday, with Lady
Harrison as guest-of-honor. Among the
guests were Lady Berryman, Mrs. Emesi
Burbridge, Mrs. R. Scammell, Miss M
Gillespie, Mrs. W. R. Dovey, Mrs.. Allen
Williams, Mrs. Norman Jenkyn, Mrs.
M. Selby Davidson, Mrs. D. Service and
Miss Jessie Sisson (who will be remem-
bered by many Australian travellers for
her work with the Bank of N.S.W. Travel
Bureau in London). The hostesses, Mrs.
Harry Twigden and Mrs. Hermon Slade,
also arranged the musical programme, in
which the artists were Marie Tysoe, James
Wilson, Betty Lurie and George
Humphrey.
Mrs. Laurie Knight, of Strathfield, is
well-known as Dorothy Dodd, composer
of many popular songs and of the Eng-
lish lyric of the hit-tune “Granada.”
Since writing the words for “Granada”
five years ago Mrs. Knight has written
English lyrics for about 20 songs of many
languages. She has also written words
and music for a musical-comedy, “Lead-
ing Lady,” and has had about 30 songs
published, including “When Winter
Turns to Spring,” and “People in the
Park.” One of her newest Philip’s re-
cordings is “Part of the Charm of Paris.”
Mrs. Knight first won recognition when
at the age of 20 she appeared on “The
Youth Show” (which was responsible for
discovering much talent, including that
of Joy Nicholls). She has two young
children, Elisabeth {spelt with an “s”)
aged three, and Bruce, who is eight
months. Photo by Dorothy Welding.
The Governor, Sir John Northcott,
will be present at the Lady Mayoress’s
Ball on Thursday, September 23, and
will receive the debutantes. Mrs. A. Ross-
Davidson will be matron-of-honor, and
the debs, will be escorted by air-cadets
of the City of Sydney Squadron and the
University Squadron. Already two func-
tions have been organised to help defray
expenses of the ball, which is in aid of
the Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund. The
first is a “picture-show” afternoon-tea
arranged by Mrs, L. Larbalestier at the
Town Hall on July 16, and the second
a luncheon at the Rhinecastle Cellars
organised by Mrs. C. M. Guiney for
August 11.
* * *
Miss Eva Burnside, of Wahroonga,
who on her 100th birthday during the
week said, “7 oday I start my second cen-
tury,” has never eaten fruit or green
vegetables and has lived mainly on bread,
meat, potatoes and milk. Let’s hope the
children don’t read this, or there’ll be
more trouble than ever about those vege-
tables they’re always being forced to
eat,
* ☆ ☆
It gave one something of a jolt to read
that Dr. Edith Sitwell had been created
Dame of the British Empire at the re-
cent Birthday Honors, for the Sitwells’
personal publicity has always been so
good that one had somehow got the im-
pression that they had all had every con-
ceivable bestowable honor “built-in.”
* ☆ ☆
The musicale held in Anthony
Hordern’s gallery amid the paintings of
the Royal Art Society’s Autumn Exhibi-
tion was a very successful and enjoyable
one, even though Richard (“Much Bind-
ing”) Murdoch was prevented from
attending almost at the last moment.
Mrs. Erik Langker was hostess, and Mrs.
Roy Harrison presented a much-
appreciated programme, which included
Barbara Wheatley (soprano), Michael
Khlentzos (tenor) and Clara Skriptchenko
(pianist), with Kevin Brennan as compere.


LIGHTING UNIT
10 K.V.A. petrol driven lighting
set. Meadows 13 H.P., water
cooled motor (with 1 2 gal. tank)
direct-coupled to 240 volt, 50
cycle alternator, complete with
exciter, battery charger, self
starter, volt-, amp- and fre-
quency - meters. Change - over
switch and voltage controller.
The whole mounted on heavy
steel chassis and ready for im-
mediate use. No concrete floor
required. Any trial.
Price £3OO.
Apply “Lighting Set,” Box 40,
P. 0., Hornsby, N.S.W.
J//te Alt-BRITISH
IoiUaKEU
iUr- W _
gtißia>ai€
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & CO, LTtt, LONDON
From
25/-
to
65/-
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
Have you tried
c ALBANY?
The cigarette
CLAIRE BLOOM
would offer you..
Who says cigarettes don’t have personality?
Not Albany smokers ! They will tell you that Albany
have a subtle difference which sets them apart. It’s
not idle chance which leads that well-known person-
iiiiiiiii
m
m
■sv:
*TT-->i!
■vr-r
w:
iii
44RS
PULL OP CHARACTER AS THE PEOPLE WHO SMOKE THEM
ality, Claire Bloom, to
smoke —and to offer
k—these mild and
flavourful
cigarettes.
CORK OR
FILTER
TIPPBD
F. L. Smith Ltd., Burlington
Gardens, Old Bond Street f
London, W.l.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
SYDNEY FILM FESTIVAL
WINTER was throwing very
’ ’ few degrees about at Sydney
University’s first film-orgy ; and
those of the 1500 overcoated,
rugged, blanketed, tartan-
trousered men, women and
children who qualified as
Ph. Ph. D.’s (Philm Phestival
Doers), moving the complete
cycle of three sessions a
day in each of four large halls,
were able to watch Joan of Arc
burning with a certain amount of
envy. Over the weekend the
present reviewer attended 10
sessions (missing an extra Science
session) and saw some 32 films,
long and short.
At the show of Australian
amateur films, all in color, one
learned for the first time that
Keith Hall, of Brisbane, had
headed the U.S. Amateur Cinema
League awards of 1953 with “The
Old House,” a fine example of
what an amateur can do with a
man, a woman, a child, a camera,
a bit of countryside, a brook and
a feeling for the first rule of
lyrical art: that the work must
use up all its few materials and
no more.
That same terse quality was
present in “Fisherman’s Luck,”
by John Simpson, of Adelaide,
about the small boy who catches
no fish and buys some to take
home. “The Lady Bird,” a
nature-study by Gil Nicholls
(Victoria), which was among the
U.S. League’s first 10 for 1953,
was a completely satisfying job ;
but yet another of the league's
“best 10” (there must be Aus-
tralians on their committee),
“The Enchanted Isles,” by Alt'
Bartlett (Brisbane), a Whitsunday
Passage travelogue, was much
too gaudy both in presentation
and commentary.
A demonstration by Byram
Mansell of his methods of paint-
ing designs on silk scarves made
a first-rate color-subject for
“Fantasy in Color,” by G.
Hurlstone (Sydney), spoiled by
poorly-handled irrelevancies of
the Mansell garden and arrival
and departure of the girl who
modelled the scarves. Mrs. E.
Gason’s “Interlude in Italy”
overdid the grief of two Italian
parents who found that a passing
Australian hadn’t met their son
in Australia.
A skit on tl\e Melbourne-
Sydney feud, “Tale of Two
Cities,” 'by Max Knobel
(Victoria), in a praiseworthy
effort at subtlety, missed making
all its points clearly, and a skit
on Adelaide by V. Branson, of
that city, spoiled some good
comic ideas with scenes based on
the theory that to dive into a pile
of luggage and wave your legs
wildly constitutes hilarious farce.
Of the long narratives, the 1927
silent “The General,” with Buster
Keaton, was a reassurance to
anyone who might have doubted
the preservative value of style;
packed with brilliant invention,
superbly directed, not a gesture
lost, not a possibility wasted;
here indeed, in the almost-
exhaustive study of the humor
that can be got out of a railway-
engine and a civil war, one felt
in the presence of serene and
assured art.
The brilliant new French farce
“Jour de Fete” is a study of how
much humor can be got out of a
village postman and his bicycle ;
Jacques Tati’s miming has more
variety and subtlety than
Keaton’s, and the burlesque film
of American mechanisation and
speed which inspires Tati to
emulation is a little entertain-
ment on its own ; but you could
not say that the new French film
is better entertainment than the
old American film, even to
present-day audiences.
Similarly Dreyer’s silent “Joan
of Arc,” with Marie Falconetti,
which is mainly a study of heads
and expressions of Joan and her
judges, has nothing to be
ashamed of in the presence of
Rosselini’s “Germany, Year
Zero,” though this tragedy of the
boy who killed his invalid father
because they couldn’t go on feed-
ing him, and then jumped off a
building himself, offers, in the
ghastly ruins of Berlin, no
changes of mood, contrasts of
comedy with tragedy, important
with unimportant, that are the
triumphs of the method of the
make-it-up-as-you-go producer:
it is neither good Rosselini nor
pure tragedy; many of the
circumstances are faked and not
inevitable.
Rene Clair’s first sound-film,
“Sur Les Toits de Paris,” was
curiously dated: the big man,
Fred, for instance, and the
heroine might have come out of
a Keystone comedy, and no one
would have been surprised had
they begun to jerk about at the
old hopped-up speed; never-
theless, there was a bedroom
scene of the girl, anxious only
to sleep, flapping like an angry
hen at her importunate lover,
that seemed to remind the adult
audience of something.
Of all the documentaries the
most startling was “Grass,” a
1924 silent film of the annual
migration of a tribe of Persian
nomads with their goats and
cattle across a rushing river and
barefoot through snow over a
12,000 ft. mountain to new
pastures —a finer film than the
erosion-study, “The Plow That
Broke the Plains,” or even
“World Without End,” a side-by-
side study of the efforts of
Unesco workers in Mexico and
Siam. For the terrific effort of
the tribesmen, swimming their
cattle across the river, marching
barefoot strung-out in miles of
black zigzag on the white slopes
of the mountain, or of a girl
climbing almost straight up
rocks with a calf slung around
her shoulders, is matched by the
effort of the camera-team.
Cooper and Schoedsack, and their
Englishwoman writer ; and this
effort is felt in the film and adds
to its excitement.
Heyer’s new Birdsville Track
film “Back of Beyond,” stands
up well in this company; the
scenes of the truck-driver danc-
ing with the dressmakers’
dummy on the banks of the
Cooper, and the interpolated
story of the two little girls who
got lost in the desert, are really
good. An earlier Bulletln
criticism stated its only draw-
back: that it is a long truck-
journey from nowhere to
nowhere for no reason. They
don’t show the huge cattle-runs
that make it necessary—unless
you take it in with “Overlanders
of Tomorrow,” which shows
stud-bulls being flown north for
the first stud-cattle-auction to be
held there, and has a pleasant
few incidental scenes of an out-
back picnic race-meeting.
Of somewhat the same kind,
“And Now Miguel” shows the
life of a boy on a Mexican
sheep-farm, a fairly conventional
film, as is “School’s Out” (M.
Scales), a straightforward story
of the efforts made by authorities
to amuse Sydney’s children and
keep them out of mischief during
holidays. Some of the things
they get up to without guidance,
now —that would make a film!
But what makes convention
and what living art? A while
ago the Homolky-Nagy films of
wild-life, monuments of patience
and fidelity, excited everyone;
but although “Kingdom of the
Waters” is not hard to sit
through, the after-effect of these
superb pictures of seabirds eat-
ing fish, polecats eating sea-
birds’ eggs and sea-eagles eating
polecats, is of a dismal and
endless hurdy-gurdy. One turns
gratefully to the Foldes couple's
study of their own garden, with
its opening and closing flowers
and birds picking the tops off
milk-bottles. The little trick by
which they end “On Closer
Inspection” with a puff of wind
scattering the seeds of a puff-
ball is a triumph of art over all
the endless reiterations of natural
sequences by Homolky-Nagy.
Another little novelty, the
Canadian “The Switchman,” was
simply made of the reveries of
an old Russian migrant to
Canada spoken behind shots of
his nightly work, the cleaning of
the snow from the points of
Canadian tramlines—most of his
life-story, alas, was lost either
because of faulty recording of
his mutter or poor reproduction.
An English film showed many
cartoons by Leonardo da Vinci,
most from the Queen's collec-
tion ; and an American film
showed a little story made by
combining pictures from a set
of Japanese roll-books (stories
told in continuous strips of
pictures); both films were
magnificently done. There was
also an English study of the very
modern sculptor Henry Moore,
his studio and works; and a film
by Dreyer of the sculptures of
Thorvaldsen —one would say
Dreyer was much better at film-
ing marble to look like skin if
one could feel that Moore hadn’t
so severely handicapped his
cameraman. And there were
some American cowboy ballads,
illustrated with stills of casual
sketches.
In the Leonardo film, alone in
all the festival, one noticed the
music, largely because of Raws-
thorne’s name among the
credits; and there it occurred to
the reviewer that maybe the times
and their techniques have com-
bined to invent a contemporary
music which is not so much
meant to be heard as to be over-
heard ; maybe concerts of new
music would sound better as a
background to bridge-playing,
conversation, eating or love-
making by the audience. Indeed,
one found it almost impossible
to follow the cowboy ballads
because of the sketches —and if
the festival as a whole proved
anything, it proved that you do
not always gain by adding
things: sound on top of mime
may add to its possibilities, but
it tends to take away from its
unity.
The cartoons were disappoint-
ing. The best was a beautifully-
drawn little skit on the history
of Canadian transportation, “The
Romance of Transportation.”
The Foldes’ history of the world
from chaos to the present chaos
entitled “Animated Genesis”
had some complicated routines
of formal color, abstract shapes
in moving patterns, and a
frightening spider of a devil
tempting and preying on man;
but somewhere it missed fire ; its
didacticism was of the kind that
tells you brilliantly what you
already know.
In the same way the Dutch film
“Kermesse Fantastique,” a
grouping of dolls in a kind of
celestial Luna Park, a thing of
great ingenuity and complex
manipulation, had the fault of
clockwork: that once you get it
going it loses interest. “Shoe-
maker and Hatter,” a rather stiff
little parable of free-trade, made
its points with bright determina-
tion ; but the Australian cartoon
“Rabbit’s Stew” (Porter), a
technical success, was woefully
poor in invention.
Professor Stout and his com-
mittee propose a bigger and
brighter festival next year, and
no doubt by then one will be
sufficiently recovered to go to it.
Dali in Rome
Even the paintings of Salvator
Dali are asleep for the siesta
from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m., with all
the rest of Rome except the
vigilant bureaucracy; so an Aus-
tralian named George Mulgrue,
who used to be storyteller for
the A.8.C., demonstrates the
splendors of F.A.O.
F.A.0., pronounced Fow, has
something to do with U.N.O. and
other alarming letters of the
alphabet, and is housed in a vast,
beautiful beehive, very stream-
lined and air-conditioned, de-
signed by Mussolini for the
Italian civil service and com-
pleted by the Americans. Mr.
Mulgrue, who is its information
department, presses a buzzer for
pamphlets which I lose; but not
before I learn that Fow governs
the food of the world, more or
less, and that it is doing an in-
valuable service by spraying the
mountain Indians of Peru with
D.D.T., to delouse them. The
lice carry typhus.
Fow is the new world-order,
the international bureaucracy
sitting in air-conditioned rooms
decorated with poker-work after
the style of Paul Klee, pressing
all-powerful buzzers. Ido not
like anything about it except a
superb marble double-staircase
designed by Mussolini, which
nobody ever uses because
(a) there is the lift, and (b) the
stairs are so slippery that you
could only break your neck on
them.
It is 3.30 p.m. Rome wakes.
Thirty-five policemen, all armed
with revolvers, lurk for no per-
ceptible reason in the gigantic
shadows of the Colisseum. There
is nothing to shoot except cats,
tourists and the ghosts of Caesars.
Bronze chariots leap magnifi-
cently into the sky on top of the
memorial to Victor Emmanuel,
known with some justice as “the
wedding-cake.” A French nun
who also speaks English leads
the way with infinite courtesy,
about two-miles further than
need be, by the street of the four
fountains back to the Piazza
Quirinale and Dali.
Dali is up three flights of
marble stairs, guarded by seven
policemen, thronged by sight-
seers: after all, next to Picasso,
he is the most curious artistic
phenomenon of the age and lat-
terly, since he turned Catholic,
has acquired a new, semi-official
eminence. There is talk of a
commission to illustrate Dante’s
Inferno.
In the first room of his exhi-
bition there are panels of water-
colors, very slight, hastily dashed-
off, unfinished —a mildly attrac-
tive impression of crowds of
pink angels flying nowhere in
(Continued on page 27)


Who is my enemy?
By STEPHEN KELEN
WHAT makes people in
other parts of the world
different from us here in
Australia? Why can’t
they settle their disputes in our
democratic manner, no matter
how grave their differences?
Who is the enemy in their
midst? What kind of force can
completely disturb a peaceful
countryside, making beasts out
of men, planting fear of the next
moment in their hearts, as it
enters the family circle, taking
the breadwinner away? What
evil power is it that fills souls
with torment of terror, making
them fear their neighbors, their
dearest friends, even their kith
and kin?
Who are the men, who could
make you realise just how
valueless life is, and, at the same
time, make you love this earthly
existence more than ever
before?
In the past there was very
little contact between Australians
and these people of “uncertain
existence,” but to-day, with the
influx of thousands of newcomers
—most of them could tell you
fantastic and incredible stories of
escape from the European cata-
clysm—there seems to be a better
understanding, a deeper apprecia-
tion of the problems of millions
of unfortunates in some unhappy
corners of our bothered world.
I am one of those persons.
TVrOW I live in a Sydney suburb
on the North Shore. I
pass through a street on my way
to the ferry-wharf every morn-
ing, without fear of the terror
that has shadowed so many
Europeans, and is still with them.
When I first saw that hilly
street, I had a feeling that I had
been there before, because I re-
membered another one —similar,
but so far from here, in Buda-
pest. Yes, there were the same
kinds of trees, cottages, peace ... ;
Until one day, just after the First
World War, I was playing in
front of our home with the other
kids ; a young boy in the third
year of school.
The postman passed. He was
a thin man, with a moustache
carefully waxed, several inches
long. For months, with the other
boys, we had planned and saved
money to buy a large pair of
scissors to cut off the postie’s
moustache. Then X saw Mother
coming out of the cottage. She
called me over.
“Steve,” she said haltingly,
“your father is coming home.
To-night, or to-morrow morning.
The war is over, son.”
This was the First World War.
I can’t remember much about it,
and how the people reacted, but
I can clearly recall Father’s
homecoming, and all that hap-
pened afterwards. He was a cap-
tain in the Hungarian Army, and
I so proud of his rank, till I saw
him. He looked haggard, worn-
out ; he seemed to me a stranger,
but he was my parent, and I
rushed up to him, for an embrace
and a kiss.
“Stay away from me, boy,”
he cried out. “I’m filthy. I
shouldn’t have come home this
way. But I wanted to come
home so very much, as quickly
as I could.”
Mother was worried. Sooth-
ingly she said: “Your bath will
be ready in a few minutes,
Albert. Cheer up, please, and
don’t frighten the boy. The war
is over. Remember?”
“You are right, Pauline,”
Father sighed. “The war is over.
The Austro-Hungarian mon-
archy has crumbled to pieces.
Now, perhaps, we’ll be able to
gain our independence, get away
from the Austrians and Ger-
mans, from all the big nations,
and live in peace. Perhaps we
can make a fresh start: the three
of us and our country.”
After Father had his bath, we
sat down to caraway-seed-soup,
and marrow, our staple food that
year, all through the year. I
eyed it with disgust. But Father
. . . the way he ate —ravenously,
gulping, swallowing, stuffing the
marrow down his throat!
Amazed, I watched him.
Father noticed my be-
wilderment. “Go on, eat,
boy; eat,” he urged me.
“When you’re hungry, you
eat anything. These are
times when people ought to
be grateful for any kind of
food. Just to survive. Exist
from one day to another.
Waiting and hoping. We just
have to sit tight and wait for it
to clear, to see things more
settled.”
’W/AITING was not easy.
** Budapest was terror-
stricken. The country’s collapse
in the aftermath of a terrible
war was complete. Bitter men
returned from the fronts, feeling
they had been cheated by their
leaders.
Coming home from school, I
spotted a group of people sur-
rounding a soldier in tatters. He
was a wild-looking, unkempt and
bearded man. But his eyes ex-
pressed so much sorrow and
suffering that they frightened
me; they almost made me cry.
The soldier stood on some
sort of box, and, in a throaty,
deep voice, addressed the crowd.
“The war is over, they say.
Well” —he laughed bitterly—‘l
can tell you a little secret: it
isn’t. There’s fighting in West-
ern Hungary. But our soldiers
are not fighting the enemy now.
They are killing each other,”
He paused for a moment, then
with a terrible irony he went on:
“Well, didn’t you people know
that? Or do you pretend? I
know, it’s much easier to close
your eyes, and hide in some safe
corner till the danger passes. Is
that it?”
Now a voice in the crowd
called out: ‘‘All right. You’re
on the soap-box, soldier, what
do you suggest we should do?”
“I’ll tell you,” the soldier
shouted without hesitation. “Stop
fighting. If we all decide on
that, there’ll be no more killing
each other.”
Now a woman’s bitter, jeering
voice called out: “You’re talking
to civilians. You’re the soldier,
you’re the killer.”
“You keep your trap shut,”
another woman attacked the
interjector. “My husband was a
soldier, too. He didn’t kill any-
one. He was killed. I have a
boy like this one,”
The woman pointed, and the
soldier looked at me. The huge
crowd’s interest was focused on
me now. I felt thoroughly
ashamed.
“And what do you say, boy?”
the soldier asked me. “Do you
think soldiers are killers?”
“I don’t know,” I mumbled.
“My father was a soldier, too.
He just came home. He said the
war was over.”
I could not bear the tension
any longer, and ran away. I ran
until my breath stopped me.
There I stood, at a lonely street-
corner, panting. Then I realised
it was no good running away.
The soldier’s eyes were still star-
ing at me, and I could hear the
woman’s voice, debating whether
soldiers are killers or not.
I edged up to Father, who was
sitting in a worn-out armchair,
filling his pipe with a mixture of
tobacco and dried leaves.
“Father,” I mumbled in a
hardly-audible tone.
“Yes?”
“Father, are you a killer, too?”
Mother was sitting at the win-
dow, straining her eyes in the
twilight of the room, mending
socks. She looked up, alarmed.
“What a stupid question to ask!
Have you gone crazy, Steve?”
“A woman in the street said,”
I went on, “that soldiers are
killers. Then another one said,
they were not. Father, have you
ever killed somebody? The
enemy, I mean. They told us in
school that it’s a good thing to
kill the Rumanians, because
they’re trying to take our coun-
try.”
Father seemed perplexed. He
put his pipe down, and looked
straight into my eyes. He hesi-
tated for a moment, and slowly
he said; “No, boy, I’m not a
killer. If I ever killed somebody
they made me do it.”
This I could not understand.
“Who made you do it. Father?”
“All right, Steve. Come along,
you are upsetting your father.”
But I refused to move. I just
stood there, looking at Father.
He nervously fidgeted his pipe,
looked at me with his warm,
brown eyes filled with suspicion,
and pain.
“We have enough trouble
without the boy asking so many
silly questions,” he suddenly
erupted. “Why don’t you stop
asking questions? Questions all
the time. You are too young to
understand. Too young. Under-
stand?”
I could bear his look no
longer. “Yes, Father,” I said,
and sauntered out of the room.
r pHE city was full of strange
events I could not compre-
hend, but the man to whom I
looked up, the only person whose
opinion I completely trusted, re-
mained a silent, irritable and
frightened man.
One early morning, when I
was about to leave to go and
play with the other kids, I
bumped into him at the gate.
“Where are you going?” he
asked tersely.
“Out to play with the other
kids. Father.”
) “You can’t leave the house!”
he said. “Revolution. The
Karolyi Government is out. The
Communists have taken over.”
I didn’t know much about the
Kdrolyi or any other Govern-
ment, nor the Communists. I
was only a kid, very much afraid,
because my father perspired pro-
fusely, and was wiping his face
with a soiled handkerchief,
tinted with blood.
In the next few days our whole
mode of living changed. Our
house became more like a forti-
fication than an abode of ordin-
ary, peaceful families. The gate
was closed, and the heads of the
six families and the caretaker
were on guard day and night,
watching through a spy-hole,
with a rifle at the ready.
“If the war’s over,” I asked
Father one afternoon, after he
came off guard-duty, “why do
you have to carry a rifle. Father?
You spend hours at the gate,
ready to shoot? Why?”
Father tried to be patient. It
was a great effort for his tired,
overstrained nerves. “We must
try to defend ourselves, Steve,”
he said.
“Defend ourselves? Here?
In Budapest? Why? Who is our
enemy?”
“The irresponsible elements in
the community.”
“And who are the irrespon-
sible elements. Father?”
“Well, it’s hard to explain, but
we have to maintain law and
order. We must defend our lives
and belongings.” By now the
veneer of patience had worn
off, and Mother had to take the
brunt of Father’s irritability.
“Pauline,” he cried out, “can’t
you take this boy away? How
am I to explain these things to
him, when I myself don’t know
the answer? ”
C'CHOOL holidays came to an
abrupt end. The new Gov-
ernment reopened the schools,
but instead of the old national
anthem, “God Bless the Hun-
garian,” another song, the “Inter-
nationale,” had to be sung on
the very first morning of our
return.
The teacher, a new man we
had not seen before, sang it first,
and then we had to follow as he
sang it again. I was strangely
excited. Standing among the
boys, I was singing the new
“anthem” with them. But in the
middle of it I stopped singing.
Some of the boys were just
standing there, tight-lipped. 1
could hardly wait to ask them at
recess why they kept silent.
“Why didn’t you sing, Korom-
pay?” I asked a “silent” one, a
friend of mine, who lived in the
house next to ours.
He was a tall, serious-looking
little man, who liked books bet-
ter than sports or play. He never
spoke much, and seldom was
exuberant as other boys were.
His answer and tone of voice
came as a complete surprise to
me.
“People who sing that song
are our enemie|, that’s why.” He
spoke with great conviction.
“How do you know?”
“Father told me.”
“But a song is a song,” I said.
“It’s the words that count, you
fool,” he remonstrated. “And
you shouldn’t sing it, either. You
don’t belong to their class. Can’t
you understand?”
“No, I’m sorry, I can’t.”
I was completely bewildered;
and next afternoon, when
Korompay came over in the
courtyard of the big house where
we lived then, I was even more
confused.
The courtyard led to a large,
beautiful garden with huge trees,
flower-beds and butterflies. There
was peace in the garden while
the war was on. But now Ali,
the caretaker’s son, a squat little
fellow, with closely-cropped hair,
protruding cheekbones, and blue
eyes, which strangely contrasted
with their slanted, almost Orien-
tal frames, called out: “Let’s
play Reds and Whites. The Reds
come with me.”
“And the Whites behind me,”
Korompay faced him, defiantly.
The boys divided into two
groups. There was the strange
light of utmost excitement in
their eyes. It frightened me.
There I stood, between the
opposing parties, who decided to
fight their own war.
“Whose side are you on,
Steve?” I heard Korompay’s
challenge.
“I don’t know. All this seems
silly to me. What’s the differ-
ence? Reds or Whites? What
are you going to do, Korom-
pay?”
“Fight,” Korompay announced
in a martial tone.
“Fight!” Ali echoed his an-
tagonist’s mood.
“Yes, fight,” Korompay re-
peated in a martial tone.
“You mean really fight?” I
asked incredulously. “Like you
did in school yesterday? You
were bleeding, and so was the
other chap. It’s dangerous.”
“Yes, just like that,” Korom-
pay exclaimed. “But now we’re
going to kill each other. Pop
said the Whites and Reds can’t
live together.”
“Then I shan’t play. I don’t
want to kill anybody,” I de-
clared.
“Traitor! Make him a
prisoner!” Korompay shouted.
I started to run towards the
stairs, up to the third floor,
where we lived, my one desire
to reach the protection of our
home, to see Father. He seemed


to me big, strong, reassuring
even in his misery.
“What’s the matter?” Father
asked. “You’re out of breath.”
I did not dare tell him. “Noth-
ing, Father, nothing,” I mut-
tered.
“Come in; go to your room
and keep quiet,” he warned me.
WE had visitors.' There was
the smell of strange men
in the air. Then I spotted three
hats casually thrown on the hall
table. Voices drifted from the
dining-room, X heard Mother
speaking.
“Yes, gentlemen?”
“We came to you, Mrs. Kelen,
because you’re a teacher of his-
tory and geography. We need
teachers in the schools,” one of
the men spoke.
Father hurried towards the
dining-room. Before he entered,
he turned to me:
“Go to your room. Now!”
He closed the door behind
him, and I remained in the hall,
listening anxiously.
“Excuse me interrupting,”
Father said, “but my wife hasn’t
taught since we were married.
A good many years.”
“We don’t care about that,”
the same strange voice said with
emphasis. “It’s her duty to
teach. By the way, what are
your political views?”
There was a moment’s silence.
Then Father, with a tremor in his
voice, answered:
“X have none. I only want to
work, and live. That’s all.”
“Ah,” the same voice said with
biting irony, “I understand. You
have no political convictions,
Captain.”
In a quick, excited and
anxious voice Mother said:
“They’re right, Albert. They
haven’t enough teachers, I know
that much. It’s my duty to go
and teach, no matter what the
circumstances. I’ll gladly come,
gentlemen.”
Now a new voice spoke,
threateningly. “But we are not
gentlemen. Comrade Kelen.”
Comrade —that was a new
word in my vocabulary, and I
pondered over it a long time
after the strangers had left.
Father bitterly abused Mother.
“You shouldn’t have done it!
It’s dangerous, Pauline. There
are less teachers now. Why?
Because the teachers are afraid
to teach.”
“I’m afraid, too, Albert. But
do you think they gave me any
choice? Besides, it’s my duty to
teach children, when they call
me to do so. The children need
teachers.”
morning Mother went
to the school in Heart-street,
to teach elementary history and
geography. She came home
tired, to find me on the sofa,
in great pain.
“Steve, Steve, what’s the
matter?” she asked anxiously.
“My stomach,” I groaned.
“What happened, Steve?
What happened to your
stomach?”
“I drank too much.”
“You , . . drank too much?”
Mother’s presence made me
feel easier.
“Yes, Mother,” I said. “Water.
We had a competition. Who was
able to drink most. It’s good
for you. It fills up your stomach,
and you don’t feel so hungry
then.”
Mother started to cry. I
found that strange. “I’ll call the
doctor,” she said.
“Don’t, Mother, please. I feel
better already. Honest I do.”
She sat next to me on the sofa,
stroked my hair and spoke
softly:
“Don’t ever do it again, Steve.
Promise! These days might
decide your whole life. You must
be careful. The storm will blow
over and there’ll be peace again.
Some kind of peace. And then
you won’t have to drink water
instead of eating food. And
don’t wander about too much.
The streets are dangerous,
Promise? Please.”
“Yes, Mother, I promise.”
But I didn’t keep my word. I
couldn’t. The streets were excit-
ing, so full of adventure. With
the other boys I went down to
the Danube: there, in the mud,
under the Ferencz jozset Bridge,
we dug out weapons and
ammunition.
“Each one of you take one,”
said Ali, handing out the rifles
an d revolvers. “We might need
them. Here, Steve, you have
one, too. This is only a revolver,
Smaller than the rifles, but you
aren’t on our side altogether.”
“This one can kill a man,
too?” I asked.
“Yes,” Ali said with contempt,
“Not as well as the big ones, but
it’ll do you.”
At home I sneaked into my
room, and hid the revolver
behind the wardrobe. In the hall,
once more, I saw the three hats,
I listened.
“Comrade Kelen,” I heard the
stranger speak again. “We have
bad reports about you. You
are not teaching what you ought
to teach.”
Mother spoke in a soft but
determined voice. “I understand,
You don’t want me to teach the
children the way I was taught,
You don’t want me to tell them
the truth. I saw your programme
for teachers, you want me to
teach in that spirit, and not as
things Really are?”
“Precisely, Comrade Kelen.
I’m glad you can see our point
of view.” „ .
“Yes. I see your point of vrew
very clearly.”
“Then, I take it you’re going
to adapt’, yourself to our pro-
I’m not going to adapt
myself’ to your programme,
Su asked me to go'and teach,
S !3?£Sr ned
BiiolviU no/telflfekto Innocent
children. I’m not going to poison
minds ”
tfleir minds . . .
Now another voice, smooth,
but with a menacing quality that
frightened me, spoke slowly,
deliberately
reactionary and as
such ylu’re ddlfa gS deal of
harm to yourself, and other
members of your family. You
have a child, haven’t you? A
boy.”
“Yes, I have. What about
him?”
“Don’t you think he should
be brought up the right way?”
the smooth-voiced man said.
“Is that all, gentlemen?”
Mother asked.
“Yes, for the time being, Mrs.
Kelen,” another voice said, with
an ominous emphasis on the
Mrs.
SOON after these menacing
visitors left. Father came
home. He was breathless with
excitement.
“Did you hear the latest,
Pauline? The Whites occupied
Szeged. Horthy and his army
are advancing on Budapest. I’ll
tell you, you’d better stop teach-
ing under the Reds, Pauline.
You’d better stop, before it’s too
late.”
“No, Albert,” Mother said in
her soft but determined voice.
“I will go on teaching the way 1
was taught.”
Mother went to school next
morning as usual. She usually
came home late in the after-
noon, but she was not home by
evening. Father was restless.
“Where’s Mother, Father?” I
asked him. “Why isn’t she
home yet?”
“Tell me, Steve, did anyone
come here yesterday?” he asked,
“Yes. The three men who
made Mother go and teach,
Where’s Mother?”
With alarm I noticed that
Father’s eyes were dewed with
tears. The harshness of his
voice was gone. He tried to
console me: “Your mother will
be back soon. Don’t think about
it, Steve. Your mother will come
back. Now go out and play with
the other boys.”
As soon as I put my foot in the
courtyard, a hostile group of
Reds surrounded me. Ali was
their leader. 7
“Give me back that pistol!
he yelled at me.
“Why? What’s the matter,
Ali?” I asked him, frightened,
because I could feel real hate in
his voice.
“‘Why?’ he asks!” Ah
turned jeermgly to the others,
• 111 tell you why. You re our
enemy, now Stay away from
our gang, if you value your
life
But why?
“Do you know what happened
“/started to tremble. I forgot
about the hostile boys who
surrounded, me. Imploring
™
%&&£'***£**
"SSS An enemy?
Who told you?
“Dad. He says your mother s
y
against the people.
I couldn’t really fathom what
Ali was saying, but I felt it was
something terrible, degrading.
“You’re a liar, Ali!” I pro-
tested. “My mother is uobody’s
enemy. She’s good, kind.”
“Yeah? Then why did they
put her in jail?”
I think this was the moment
when I fully realised that I had a
mother, and how much I loved
her. And I hated Ali, I was
determined to defy him, even if
he was the leader of the Reds.
“I’m not going to give you
back the pistol. I’m going to
keep it. And if you don’t shut
up, I’m going to tell my father
on you.”
Ali ejaculated a conceited
laugh.
“Mother’s little milk-sucker,”
he teased. “You think your
father will help you? Now I’ll
tell you something. You want
to know? They might take him
away, too,”
They. Always they. Who are
they ? Those menacing, terrible
people, they.
Later in my life, when I
witnessed upheavals in other
countries, when I saw blood spilt
on the pavements of Santiago de
Chile, the panic-stricken natives
in the islands, Chinese seeking
refuge in Hong Kong, and
Japanese Christians who
whispered to me of their agony
in pre-war Tokyo, all these
people when speaking of their
persecutors, in no matter what
language, always referred to
them as THEY.
They seemed to be a group of
menacing persecutors from
another planet, trying to invade
the peaceful existence of the
little people, who held them in
an awe that even feared to
mention their name.
I looked at Ali. There he
stood, grinning, so superior . . .
Blood rushed to my head. I was
about to attack him, when I
heard Mother’s voice, so clearly,
so audible as if she were really
talking to me.
“Don’t fight, Steve. Never
fight. Fighting gets you
nowhere.”
The voice was so real, that I
turned around, thinking that
Mother stood behind me . .
but no one was there.
Then I saw Mr. Szabo, the
caretaker, standing in front of
their small flat, smoking his
pipe. He spat out and yelled :
“Get away from there, Ali.
Don’t talk to him. He’s a
bourgeois.”
Mr. Szabo’s announcement
surprised me even more than
Ali’s attack. We had always
been kind to his family. Every
Christmas Ali, and Ilonka, his
sister, were invited, and there
was always a present for them
under the richly-clad tree. There
was no end to the way the
Szabos praised Mother’s “great
heart.”
I didn’t know then, but realised
it later, just how much hate a
feeling of inferiority works up
in small-minded people. The
kinder you are to them, the more
they hate you for it. Every time
a present is accepted, behind the
mask of smiling gratitude lives
the deep-seated humiliation
caused by your kindness. But,
also, there is a frustrated sense
of love in these people, the pro-
found desire rather to give than
to accept. It all depends whether
the urge to humiliate their bene-
factors, or the logic of gratitude
gets the upper hand in their
turmoil of emotions.
I WENT to school feeling very
lonely and desperate.
The Reds shunned me. But
Korompay and his followers
came to me before the lessons
commenced.
“We’ve heard all about your
mother. I’m sorry, Steve. I
hope she’ll be able to escape.
And please forgive us, because
we thought that you and your
family sided with the Reds. I
saw you with Ali’s gang. And
my dad told me that your old
man refused to have anything to
do with ... well, with some plans
I cannot mention. Maybe,” he
said, “you behaved the way you
did, because you wanted to spy
on Ali’s gang.”
I didn’t really know what a
spy was, and I doubt that
Korompay did. But his supposi-
tion hurt me all the same.
“Fm not a spy,” I protested.
“And my father said that he has
no political convictions. All he
wants is to live and work and
to be left alone.”
“Never mind, Steve,”
Korompay whispered knowingly.
“We’ll talk about this later. I
know, you mustn’t tell even your
closest friend.”
I felt terribly humiliated.
More than from Ali’s attack.
Why doesn’t Korompay believe
me? I was on the verge of
crying. Then Professor Kormos
entered the class-room.
He was a tall, gaunt-looking
man, with fiery eyes and a wild
look about him. But his voice?
Calm and soothing, like a smooth
tropical lake. He looked at us
for a moment, then said:
“Don’t sit down yet, boys.
Remember every word I say.
The Rumanians are only six
miles from Budapest. We have
lost the war and have to pay for
it. The Rumanians are going to
occupy our city. They will be in
our midst for only God knows
how long. Ignore them. Behave
as if they were not here at all.
Remember, they are our mortal
enemies. Remember that we are
Hungarians. And now let us
sing our national anthem.”
There was silence. Professor
Kormos looked at us alarmed.
“I told you to sing our national
anthem.”
“Which one, sir?” one of the
boys asked.
Professor Kormos hesitated
for a moment. Then, with great
reluctance, he said, “Both,”
Instantly cacophony broke
loose in the class-room. Korom-
pay and his followers sang “God
Bless the Hungarian,” his
antagonists with equal deter-
mination yelled the “Interna-
tionale.” I remained helplessly
silent. I didn’t know what to
do, what to sing.
Professor Kormos stood it for
a moment or so, then he cried
out:
“For God’s sake stop it, stop
it at once, you, you barbarians,
you cannibals. Stop this non-
sense. Sit down, and shut up.
All of you!”
At recess, in the streets, in
houses adults and children alike
were talking, talking but one
subject:
“The Reds have suffered a
great defeat. The Rumanians
are going to occupy Budapest.”
I rushed home to warn Father,
as if he wouldn’t be able to get
this piece of intelligence. I
found him sitting in an arm-
chair. He looked old, dejected
and very lonely. He looked up
at me. Our eyes met. There
was a hurt, pensive expression
in his eyes.
“Father,” I burst cfut, forget-
ting our personal plight, “the
Rumanians are coming! The
enemy . . . what are we going
to do, Father?”
“And what do you want me
to do?” he asked in a tired
voice that gripped my heart. I
was so disappointed. “I can’t
do anything. I’m not even a
soldier any longer. A soldier,
who could go and fight them.”
'THE doorbell rang.
“Go and see who it is,
Steve,” Father said.
My Aunt Theresa stood in the
doorway. She was a small
woman, with a happy, round
face and the rosiest complexion
I have ever seen. She spoke in
a carefree, high-pitched tone.
“Oh, Stevie, you have grown.”
“Come in, Theresa,” Father
called out with tired impatience.
“All right, Stevie,” she said.
“I want to speak to your father
alone. Go to your room. I’ll
call you later. I have a nice
little present for you. Now, be
a good boy.”
But I didn’t go to my room.
Somehow I felt that Aunt
Theresa, who seldom came to
see us, had something important
to tell. I stood behind the door
and listened.
“Did you go there?” Father
asked Aunt Theresa.
“Yes, Albert.”
“How is she? What are they
going to do with her?”
“Next Friday . . .”
“Next Friday, what?”
(i Continued on next page)


INSURE YOUR SMOKING
REQUIREMENTS
Take no chances of future shortages
★ Register for a permanent weekly or monthly
supply
FINE CUT-
LOG CABIN
CAPSTAN
CHAMPION
HAVELOCK
READY RUBBED—
CHAMPION RUBY
CAPSTAN
STATE EXPRESS
COUNTRY REGISTRATION WELCOMED
JUDAH & DAVID
106 BURWOOD RD., BURWOOD, N.S.W.
PHbNE UJ4044
Missing Beneficiary
Re Estate of WILLIAM GRAHAM SMITH.
Would any person knowing the where-
abouts of WILLIAM JAMES SMITH, a
son of James Foote Smith, please com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE
for Victoria, 412 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
Between
Ourselves
df
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “tnust” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help"
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
“A group of political prisoners
will be executed. And she is in
that group.”
“Did you . . . did you speak
to her?”
“They wouldn’t let me,
Albert.”
“Now only the Rumanians
can save Pauline. Oh, God, let
them arrive in time.”
I was dumbfounded. The
Hungarian Reds were to execute
Mother, The Rumanians would
save her. The Rumanians are
our enemies. It was so difficult
for a small boy to sum-up the
situation, find the real values and
loyalties in his confused life.
“Not a word to the boy,”
Father warned Aunt Theresa.
I heard their footsteps
approaching the door. I fled to
my room. Aunt Theresa and
Father found me there.
“Here’s my present for you,
Stevie.” Aunt Theresa handed
me something wrapped in silver-
paper.
I unwrapped her gift. It was
a dark-brown-colored, muddy-
looking something, I eyed it
suspiciously.
“What’s this?” I asked, not
knowing what to do with the
stuff.
“Go on, taste it, it’s very
delicious.” Aunt Theresa tried
to encourage v me.
“It’s chocolate.” Father tried
to be helpful.
I had heard a lot about
“chocolate,” but this thing
looked like mud to me. Then,
with great hesitation, I broke a
piece off and put it in my mouth.
First it tasted bitter, then sweet.
There was a delicious flavor in
it, and I chewed it slowly.
“It’s good,” I mumbled.
“You mustn’t eat it. You
should melt it on your tongue,
Stevie.” Aunt Theresa broke
another piece off and demon-
strated the art of enjoying a
piece of chocolate.
While I munched this new
delicacy I forgot about Mother,
the Rumanians, Ali—all I was
concerned with was my desire
to eat more chocolate, pounds
and pounds of it.
“Well, I’ll be leaving now.”
Aunt Theresa disturbed my piti-
ful gorging. “You behave your-
self, Stevie. Don’t be a nuis-
ance to your father. He’s got
enough trouble as it is . . .”
Aunt Theresa’s warning
brought me back from my happy
chocolate-munching. Suddenly,
desperately, I wanted to see my
mother. “Aunt Theresa,” I de-
manded, “where’s Mother? I
want to see Mother. You must
tell me where she is.”
“Mother will be back soon,
son. As soon as the Rumanians
come. They’ll set your mother
free,” Father blurted out.
“Albert, you talk too much.
Have more sense,” Aunt
Theresa reproached him. “I
must leave you now. See you
tomorrow, Stevie.”
“I’ll see you out, Theresa.”
Through the closed door I
heard their muffled conversation,
“You’re a queer bird, Albert,
First you warn me not to tell
Stevie anything and then you
tell him.”
“Well, I did tell him,” Father
said defiantly. “I should have
told him everything right away.
He ought to know. He should
take it to his heart. I want to
implant the idea in him that
this is no place to live. I want
him to go away from here. Far
away. England, America, Aus-
tralia or New Zealand . . . Any
place. Only away from here. I
had a chance before the war
broke out. But business was
too good then . . . It’s always
difficult for the prosperous to
leave. Yet I knew, I knew.”
“Don’t tell him, Albert. Not
just yet. He is too young to
understand. Promise? Please,
promise.”
“All right, Theresa, I promise.
I’ll wait.”
TT was Sunday next day.
A Korompay came along.
“You’d better come with us,
Steve,” he urged. “Ah’s gang
wouldn’t have you, anyway.
We’re going down to the Danube
to try finding some weapons and
ammunition. Say, did Ali find
some? You went with them.
Did they? Go on, tell me!”
“I don’t know,” I said sul-
lenly. All I wanted was to retire
into a corner and cry.
But Korompay insisted. “You
must tell us. It’s your duty. The
only way to save your mother.
We must find weapons so that
we can fight the Reds and
Rumanians when our time
comes. Dad says that Admiral
Horthy is going to beat them
both, and he needs allies within
the city. Come, don’t be a
cowajrd.”
So I went with Korompay and
his mob.
The city was in complete tur-
moil. At street-corners machine-
guns were mounted. People
were stopped by grim-looking,
leather-coated guards. Nobody
paid attention to us. We were
just kids. At last we came to
the river. I found a bunch of
old papers. Instead of looking
for weapons I started to fold the
papers.
“Are you crazy? Come and
look for guns and ammunition.
What are you doing, anyway?”
Korompay asked.
“I’m making ships,”
“Ships out of paper? What
a silly thing to do.”
“No, it isn’t,” I insisted.
While I argued I finished the
first ship. I went to the water’s
edge and put my vessel on the
stream. I watched it battling
against the waves and wished I
could sail with it out to sea to
those faraway, peaceful lands
Father mentioned to Aunt
Theresa.
A UNT THERESA came
again. v Once more I stood
behind the door,
“Have you tried to bribe
them?” Father asked her.
“They laughed at me. I only
had White money. They said
it’s not worth the paper it’s
printed on. Albert, oh, God,
I’m so terribly afraid.”
Even I knew that only green
banknotes had value.
In revolutions not only people
but also currencies lose identity.
And in those turbulent months,
after World War I in Hungary
the “old money” with the color
of green was in circulation, but,
also, the various Governments
issued a new series printed on
thin, white paper. Not one or
the other had any responsible
backing, but the peasants, who
had food, still accepted the old
currency, more out of supersti-
tion than for any logical rea-
son. Therefore the “green
money” had a hundred times
the value of the white.
“Theresa, I must go to the
prison,” I heard Father saying.
“I was a coward sending you
with money and appealing to
‘influential people.’ In reality
I was hiding from them, trying
to save my own skin. Not
caring about her. Avoiding the
issue, I must not be a coward,
Theresa. I must love her more
than I love my life.”
“Shh!” Aunt Theresa spoke
very fast, her voice trembled
with excitement. “Don’t be a
fool, Albert. What do you •
want to do? Fight them. With
your fists against machine-guns?
Can’t you realise how powerless
we are?”
“I’ve got a gun.”
“And what do you think
you’ll be able to do with your
gun?”
The shrill sound of the front-
doorbell silenced their argument.
I went to open the door. Mr.
Szabo, the caretaker, stood at
the doorstep. He smiled at me
sheepishly. All his cocksure-
ness was gone. Father came
out and saw him.
The caretaker bowed very
low and spoke in a manner he
used to before the Communists
took power. “Captain Kelen,
excuse me for disturbing you
like this, but the Rumanians are
in the city, I just thought to
come and tell you. It may be
a good thing. I mean . . . Mrs.
Kelen . . .”
Father looked at the crawling
creature with contempt.
“I thought you were a Com-
munist, Mr. Szabo. I see no
reason why you should be re-
joicing . .
“Who? Me? Never!” Mr.
Szabo protested. “I was only
pretending. For the good of all
who live in this house.”
“You fool, Albert!” Aunt
Theresa hastily interrupted.
“Why on earth are you arguing
with him? Is it important?
Now is the time to come into
the open. Here’s your chance
to save Pauline. The Allies
will save her. Hurry to the
Rumanian headquarters and ask
for their protection.”
Father, Aunt Theresa and
Mr. Szabo rushed out of the
flat. Nobody worried about me.
I stood on the threshold, dumb-
founded. I couldn’t, I just
couldn’t understand it. Father
was going to the Rumanians,
the enemy!
The enemy?
It was before noon that the
three of them left. Night came,
but none of them returned. I
didn’t dare to leave the flat.
In the morning Mrs. Szabo
came up.
She was a good-hearted pea-
sant woman wearing a kerchief
around her head, and a dozen
skirts were fastened to her waist
in the age-old fashion of the
village she came from —a good,
simple soul just as confused as
I was.
“You’d better come down to
our place and have some break-
fast, Master Steve,” she invited.
“I’m not hungry,” I rejected
her, and would have cried out,
but for my pride in this great
fear that overwhelmed me. Both
my parents were gone. I felt so
lonely and helpless. Suddenly I
saw Mrs. Szabo as she really
was, a poor, frightened woman
who was prepared to share her
family’s meagre rations with
me,
“All right Mrs Szabo, TU
com t%. ,hank y °“ V “ y
much.”
After the breakfast, in my
anxiety, I went through the
courtyard into the big garden
I hid myself behind a tree, knelt,
down, looked up to the sky and
in a tearful voice began to pray.
“Oh, God, merciful Father,
let my parents come back. Let
us live in peace, dear God, oh
Jesus, help us.”
Then I muttered the Lord’s
Prayer. I lost all sense of time.
I just knelt there, gazing into
the blue, trying to visualise
Mother and Father, trying to re-
member the time we had all
happily lived together. But I
could not remember that. It
never happened. Father was
away during the war and by
the time he returned there was
the revolution . , .
6 6CJTEVE, Steve, where are
you?” I heard Father’s
cry, but I thought it was
imagination.
“Steve! Steve!” I heard
Father calling persistently.
I ran as fast as I could. In
the courtyard before the Szabos’
flat Mother and Father stood,
huddled, miserable. Mother
wore dark glasses. I hardly
recognised her.
“Mother!” I cried out, and
rushed to embrace her, but
father warded me off.
“Careful, son. Your mother’s
very sick. Her nerves are bad,
she’s half-blind. You mustn’t
trouble her.”
But my mother opened her
arms, held me close and kissed
me. Her passionate kisses were
frightening, and it was strange
to see her so thin, with those
dark glasses. Her lovely, soft
skin seemed to have gone rough.
Instinctively I took Mother’s
hand and led her towards the
staircase. She came, slowly, with
uncertain steps, half-blind, and
I could have cried out in my
despair, asking:
“What have they done to you.
Mother?”
In the semi-darkness of our
flat Mother was wandering
from one room to another. She
went into the kitchen, straining
her poor eyes, trying to pick up
the threads of her former life,
wanting so badly to attend to
her household duties, but she
could hardly see, and helplessly
sat in Father’s armchair.
“Oh,” she sighed. “Such
terrible disorder. I’m so- help-
less.”
“Don’t worry, dearest Pauline.
The main thing is that you’re
home. Safe.”
“Safe? Yes. They just came
in time. We were to be executed
in two hours.”
“Who came in time. Mother?”
I asked.
“The Rumanians,” Mother
answered,
“The Rumanians have saved
your mother’s life,” Father
explained.
* Suddenly I saw Professor
Kormos standing on the dais,
warning the class of the forth-
coming events.
“They couldn’t!” I protested.
“The Rumanians are our
enemies.”
“Our enemies?” Mother asked
in a soft, but deeply bitter voice.
“Then our enemies have saved
my life, Steve.”
I just stood there, amazed.
And then, confused as I was, I
asked the painful, perplexing
question:
“Who is my enemy?”
■pjATHER wanted to take
Mother away for a rest. But
Mother refused to go. She in-
sisted on reporting to the school
authorities next morning. Aunt
Theresa, who came to stay with
us till Mother’s health improved,
took her there. She came back
late in the afternoon.
“I’m going to look after small
children, Albert. They gave me
a job in a kindergarten,” she
announced with a brave, timid
smile.
“You’re not well enough,”
Father protested.
“They impressed the fact on
me that at no other time was it
more necessary to have people
look after children than in
these critical days. I just had
to do it, Albert. And, believe
me, I feel a lot better. It will
do me a lot of good to look
after the children. Don’t worry,
/ I’ll be all right.”
And so she carried the torch
of her profession right through
the Rumanian occupation. Every
morning I led my half-blind
mother the two miles to the
kindergarten and fetched her in
the afternoon. Then the
Rumanians left Budapest and
Admiral Horthy’s “White
Army” marched in.
X>UT the terror did not stop, it
rather increased. Jews were
beaten to death, intellectuals
massacred. Most families,
including ouf own, had all valu-
ables packed, and slept fully
clad, ready to escape or be taken
into custody . . , Reds, Whites,
Rumanians, whom I still didn’t
know whether to hate or love ...
The whole world seemed to have
turned against the ordinary man.
Some of our neighbors dis-
appeared. Mostly the men.
Their wives sat in the corridors
of the house, huddled together,
praying, hoping and crying. The
people lived in a ferment of
terror. In their minds there was
but one question: “Who is going
to be next?”
The streets were infested with
strange-looking men in all kinds
of uniforms. The Communists,
in their leather-coats, disap-
peared, only to have their places
taken by others wearing feathers
in their caps. Rights of citizens,
safety were empty words. Now
the only law was the man with
the gun, who belonged to the
right mob. Only the bullies and
pimps, who continuously asked
questions, and terrorised defence-
less people, could consider them-
selves safe. Suspicion and fear


1
Circular Chart* for ail type*
of fiecording ifulrunwtts
tor tny class o» Mithtasry
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Specialty
JAC'W'SrO’SUIUVAN%L6£
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
inis
lion
a
ai work
LOOK AT THESE LOW PRICES:
BASIC TRACTOR: Kerosene-operated with electric
lighting and starting, belt pulley, drawbar, inde-
pendent turning brakes, hour meter, sponge seat, chaff
screen and canvas engine cover —all as standard
equipment —with 4 steel wheels, 30 x 5 (fronts),
55 x 9 (rears), with spade lugs—£799.
OPTIONAL WHEEL AND PNEUMATIC TYRE EQUIP-
MENT: 6.00 x 19, front; 11 x 36, rear; pressed steel
centres—£Bo additional.
7.50 x 18, front; 14 x 30, rear; pressed steel centres
—£lB6 additional.
7.50 x 18, front; 14 x 30, rear; heavy duty centres
(front centres 146 lbs. each, rear centres 630 lbs.
each) —£264 additional.
OPTIONAL EXTRA EQUIPMENT: 108" axle, £l5;
hydraulic lift and PTO, £99/18/-; overload release,
£l9; hand clutch, £6/5/-.
All prices F.O.R. Capital Cities.
Diesel models and row-crop models with twin front
wheels are available.
NOTE: Tractor has now been increased a full 10% in
brake and drawbar h.p., and new modified front and
steering make if more robust, extra strong. Hydraulic
lift and P.T.O. controls now engage independently—
operate separately or togetherl
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
BMC
d
fd
f
Complete this coupon—or call or phone—and your nearest
Nuffield Dealer will arrange a special demonstration on your
property.
COUPON
Fill in this coupon. Address an envelope to the Nuffield Dealer in your
town' or to your Distributor (listed below).
PLEASE USE BLOCK LETTERS
NAM E
ADDRESS
ACREAGE MAIN CROP
OTHER USES FOR TRACTOR
DISTRIBUTORS—
New South Wales- PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-FALKINER
PTY. LTD, Queensland: HOWARDS LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY
LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania.
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
KiilFPiFin f AIKTRAIIA) PTY. LTD . A UNIToF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION I (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
ruled in the hearts of ordinary
men. 1
The Whites and their followers
stood at street-corners, eager to
pounce on their victims. What ;
they demanded was an identi-
fication-card everyone was sup-
posed to carry. But not every-
body had one. So a piece of
paper meant death or life. The
neutrals, who were not on the
extreme right or left, like my
father, men, whose only identifi-
cation was that they were still
alive, answered with cunning.
They counterfeited or bought
papers.
Money, jewellery, estates all
lost their value, because one
could never know if they would
possess it the following day. Yet
wealth had more importance
than ever before, because bribes
paid to the right officials often
meant escape from death.
People were afraid to go to
the streets. It was a matter of
life or death, where a person
happened to be at a given
moment. Some men, who had
been the loudest Communists —
Mr. Szabo was one of them—
joined the ranks of the Whites.
They were brutes, more willing
tools for the Whites, than any
of the other Rightists, who acted
out of conviction. Nobody was
safe, not even those who gained
their momentary victory. I
aged years, and so did the other
boys. We grew up within a few
months, but this was not a
healthy maturity.
T WENT one afternoon as usual
A to bring Mother home from
the kindergarten.
“Let’s hurry home, Steve,” she
urged me in her soft voice, now
full of tension.
“Why, Mother? Father told
me to be careful, when I lead
you. You mustn’t strain your-
self.”
“Don’t argue. Please, Steve.
Let’s hurry.”
“What’s the matter, Mother?
You look so upset.”
“Nothing is the matter. Only
let’s hurry, hurry!”
Father was waiting at the
door. I could see on hi§ face
that he had something important
to tell,
“I just received a letter from
your friend Julius Hadrian,” he
said. “An invitation. He says
there’s a lot of food in his village.
We’d be better off there. I’ll go
and see the man in charge of the
kindergarten tomorrow. lam
sure he’ll let you off ... ”
“You don’t havfe to, Albert,”
Mother interrupted. “They told
me today that I’m not wanted,”
“Your health? ...”
“No, Albert, it is not my
health. They said I was teaching
during the Communist regime.
They said we can consider our-
selves lucky if we don’t get into
trouble.”
“But, Pauline, don’t they
know about the way you defied
the Communists? Your death ■
sentence?”
“Yes, Albert, they know about
that, too. It’s another bad mark
against us. The enemy saved me.
It will be a good thing to go and
see Julius Hadrian. We might
be safer there.”
A/fY parents took me to a little
village near Buda. We left
the tiny railway-station, and
walked through the main street,
towards the lower village, where
Julius Hadrian, the teacher, lived.
We did not get very far, when
a queer, frightening procession
came to view. A man, half-
naked* painted in red and bleed-
ing freely, could be seen, fol-
lowed by three men on horse-
back, each of them holding a
whip lashing him savagely and
often. On both sides of the
man’s Calvary peasants stood,
most of them watching indif-
ferently, but some of the women
were sobbing aloud.
Father stopped. Then, in a
terrible voice, he cried out:
“Julius! Julius Hadrian!”
“What is it, Albert?” Mother
asked. “Tell me, what is it?
I can’t see.”
“Hadrian, our friend ...”
Father stammered his explana-
tion. “Three men on horseback
are beating him, and he is bleed-
ing. They’ve painted him red.
He’s practically naked. Wsfit
here, Steve. Take care of your
mother.”
Meanwhile that bewildering
procession was coming nearer.
Father ran to Hadrian.
“Julius . . . Julius Hadrian!
What are they doing to you?”
Hadrian stopped for a
moment, only to receive another
cut.
“I don’t know you! ” he cried
out. “Get out of my way!
Can’t you see? If I don’t march
fast enough, they punish me.”
Father faced the man who hit
Hadrian.
“Stop this barbarity!” he
demanded.
“Do you want to join him,
perhaps?” the terrorist asked in
a menacing, malicious tone.
“It’s no use, Albert,” Hadrian
muttered quickly, in an under-
tone. “Go before it’s too late.
I’m sorry I brought you here to
this. God bless you all, and tell
Pauline to carry on, no matter
what happens. She belongs to
us, underpaid, terrorised
Hungarian teachers. Go now,
please, go.”
“No, you’d better stay,” one
of the terrorists called to Father.
Father was running towards
the station. We stood amongst
the crowd. I wanted to follow
him, but Mother pressed my
hand to stay.
“Don’t move, don’t move!”
she whispered tensely.
The peasants knew that we
belonged to the escaping man.
Some of the peasant women
surrounded us, to shield and
hide us. These people were on
our side, but too weak, too sup-
pressed, to do anything.
"Father escaped to Budapest
train." For thlee more years
Mother remained half-blind ;
then, slowly, gradually she
regained her sight.
The doctor, an old friend of
the family, often came, and
always said, “Nerves, Pauline.
Nothing but nerves. Rest will
cure you. A lot of rest.”
At one of his visits he said,
“My, this boy has grown. What
do you want to be, when you
grow up, Steve?”
“A teacher, sir. Just like
Mother and Mr. Hadrian.”
Yes, I wanted to be a teacher,
just like Julius Hadrian, who
collapsed and died outside the
village, where he taught
freedom, democracy, human
rights ... The Communists
called him a reactionary ; to the
Whites he was a Commums....
T HAVE followed in the wake
‘ of my paper ship. Perhaps
through shea fortune or plain
determination 1 was ante io
emigrate to a country where the
lives of innocents are protected,
a land which gave me a home,
rights and security. I became an
Australian.
But the struggle between the
forces of good and evil was not
over. The killing of innocents
went on—is still going on, per-
haps more subtly, in a more
terrifying manner than ever
before.
In Sydney I have met a
Latvian, whom the Communists
hanged, cut down and left for
dead, but he lived on to come out
to Australia. And I met another
fellow, whom the -Nazis shot.
The bullet hit him and he fell
into the Danube. He swam in
icy waters for miles. Peasants
rescued him, half-dead, and
nursed him back to life. Today,
he, too, lives in Australia.
In comparison with the
stories some of the New Aus-
tralians who arrived recently
could tell, mine is a mild fairy-
tale.
T DREAMT and worked to
bring Mother and Father to
Australia. It never came to
that. Father, more than sixty
years old, was taken and shot by
the Germans as a hostage during
a Hungarian uprising in the last
war. Mother survived the war.
I received a telegram from her
in 1944 through the International
Red Cross. So there was still
hope to bring her out to this
wonderful land. Then, three
years later, in my sixth year in
the Australian Army, I landed
with the Occupation Forces in
Japan. We were camped between
Kure and Hiroshima in a God-
forsaken place called Kaitaichi.
And there, one day, the postman
passed.
“Eh, Steve, here’s a letter for
you,” he said. “I want the stamp.
It comes from somewhere in
Europe. Don’t forget the stamp.
I’m collecting them.”
I looked at the Yes,
it was from Hungary. The
address was in small handwriting,
so similar to Mother’s. Anxiously
I tore the envelope open. But
the letter was not from Mother ;
a friend wrote it.
The letter said that Mother
died soon after the Russians
occupied Budapest. Her last
words were my name, and her
great desire to come and live
with me in Australia.
May I then dedicate these lines
to her, and all others who had
never left the middle-road of
humanity, who never strayed into
the jungle of hatred and politics.
TOWER VIEW, MAITLAND
Here looking down on swallows and the surprise
Of the worshipful company of chimneys, strangely hatted,
Unheeding the wind’s resentment, eyes
Invade this fief of Hunter, flattered
With levee, bridge and limp green flags of willow
Above the wrinkled skin and saurian breath.
His swelling rage placated, slow
Dragon coils at rest.
From this stone eyrie let the vision wing
To pierce the hills’ apocalyptic mist,
Focus the blurred immediate, ring
Discord full close. Mute, diminished,
The highway’s cavalcade unrolls from time s
Oiled spool: the technicolor scene imposed
On the grey print of lonely teams,
A city in their loads.
This is the climate of aspiration where
Needled spires point the true north and roofs
Crown rising stone like hands at prayer;
Where faith is the deep-set roots
Of trees that, though endowered with the iacaranda s
Private heaven, await through night
The absolution of the rain,
The benediction of the light.
N.S.W.
R. D. MURPHY.


COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
CENSUS
30th June, 1954.
A Census will be taken of all persons in the Common-
wealth on the Night of Wednesday, 30th June, and all
such persons are required to furnish the particulars
specified in the Census Form.
An authorised Collector will leave a Census Form at
each dwelling on or before Wednesday, 30th June, and
will call for the completed Form on or shortly after
Thursday, Ist July.
Any person who has not received a Census Form by
Census Night must attend On Thursday, Ist July, at the
nearest Post Office or Police Station and complete the
necessary Form.
All information furnished in the Census Form, or given
to a Collector, will be treated as strictly confidential.
If required, Census Collectors will render assistance in
completing the Census Form.
S. R. CARVER,
Acting Commonwealth Statistician.
PENALTY
[For Refusing to Supply the Required
■{ Information
[For Wilfully Untrue Statement ..
£lO
£5O
C 1.42.54
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “Tbe Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
f
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £3 Foreign .... £2/10/-
(Please add exchange to country cheques)
PURDEY ALSO SERVED
by
Bernard.
Harris
OF all the square-pegs I
have ever known I think
Neville Purdey was, in
some respects, the hardest
to fit anywhere. I was first
introduced to him in a latrine in
the Initial Training School at
Bradfield Park.
On the eve of one of the
periodic examinations during
our I.T.S. course, Reg Carothers
and I, although that night the
camp was closed, paid our
respects to our folks in Home-
bush and Rose Bay respectively.
We met at Lindfield station
some time after midnight,
pleasantly yarned our way
through the balmy, early-
autumn night to the environs of
the R.A.A.F. establishment,
stumbled round the wire fence
until we located the well-beaten
track which marked the thinly-
camouflaged hole in the fence,
had a chat and a smoke with a
picket who should have run us
in for breaking camp, and made
our way to a latrine, where we
came upon a huge, dark, sloe-
eyed man in a blue goon-suit
seated’ on the shining concrete
floor, his back supported by a
door-post, while he assiduously
studied a book on elementary
radio theory. This apparition
looked up shortly at Reg and
grunted something.
Reg said: “Not a very com-
fortable place to bum the mid-
night oil, Neville.”
The man, in a high, thin but
precise and well-controlled voice,
said something to the effect that
a community, however military,
which demanded the extinguish-
ing of all but latrine lights by
10 pun., could scarcely be
dubbed civilised.
“In fact,” Neville went on,
still fixedly studying a page of
his book, “this darkness-
complex is neither civilised nor
sanitary. Apart from the fact
that light is our best antiseptic,
this ill-ventilated place might
give a man his death of cold.”
At first I had taken Neville
for a drunk with a latrine fixa-
tion, but now I could see, from~
his clear speech and his precise
air, that, although there was some
indefinite vagueness about his
whole person, he was as sober
as a judge.
“It’s about time to pack up
and sleep, don’t you think?” Reg
suggested mildly.
A frown of sheer worry
puckering his olive brow,
Neville squinted up at Reg
through his long, black eyes as
he said:
“Mark you, dear boy! I have
been in this den of iniquity for
one solid month, enviously
watching you fellows have the
time of your lives. And what
have I been doing? Nothing at
all. Nothing but tiptop and
dah-dit and scribble. Nothing
but elementary Morse-code. I
have not opened a book except
a Morse book; I have not
listened to a lecture because
those two horrifying sounds
have claimed my whole attention
all day and every day. I have
not gone on leave for a solitary
hour.
“And where am I now? Tak-
ing one word a minute if I’m
lucky, but more often freezing
at the first dah.” Neville
pointed his oratorical finger
straight at my nose. “I enlisted
with the express purpose of
learning to be a pilot, not to
learn the forty ways of whistling-
up your dog. But that’s beside
the point. I am here, gentlemen,
because I know nothing about
what the examiner wants to
know tomorrow; and I fully
intend to pursue my studies here
all night. So, if you would be
so kind, leave me to my lonely
labors. Good-morrow, chaps,
and may your sleep be sounder
than mine,”
Reopening his study book
with a grand flourish and
huddling his huge body into an
attitude of intense studiousness,
Neville seemed to retire com-
pletely from our presence, and
we left him without further ado.
Outside, Reg said: “That’s
Neville Purdey, honors-graduate
of Sydney University. Not wet,
but somehow woeful. If he
ever does better than four words
a minute, his flight will eat its
forage-caps.”
“Don’t you think you ought
to tell him,” I said, “that the test
in radio theory tomorrow is on
part two of the book? He
appears to be studying part one.”
As Reg retraced his steps to
Neville Purdey’s study, I walked
slowly towards my hut, thinking
how tragic it sometimes was that
a grown man was willing, from
motives of mere patriotism, to
forsake a successful career and
risk his very sanity in frantic
attempts to master some trifle
for which he was totally unfitted.
A T the end of his course
Neville Purdey passed all
tests brilliantly except that in
Morse-code. He was scrubbed
off that course but allowed to
join the next one which was
beginning. Meanwhile my own
course found itself at a loose
end. The next school wasn’t
ready to take us, so that we
spent a month or so on odd jobs
about the place. We whiled
away an enjoyable week or two
at Richmond chopping up air-
craft wreckage. Then we did
some good work about the
kitchens at Bradfield Park, some
of us becoming so adept at the
degooing of pig-tins that the
corporal in charge of the tail-
end of the messes, a veritable
artist of this degooing process,
was almost in tears when we
were posted to other stations.
On his new course, Neville
Purdey determinedly attacked
his Morse-code, but it was soon
evident that his subject was get-
ting the upper hand. His grand
manner and his grandiloquent
oratory gradually fo'rsook him,
and it was absolutely heart-
rending to see him during stand-
down hours interminably pacing
the by-ways of the camp, feet
beginning to plod, shoulders
hunched, lips muttering endless
dits and dahs.
Everybody who learned Morse
in a hurry in the R.A.A.F. went
Morse-happy to a certain
degree; but an unfortunate few
completely succumbed to the
disease and had to have it
purged out of them. There were
many ways of diagnosing the
complaint, but the safest and
surest was to place the suspect
in the middle of a bare forty-acre
paddock and watch him care-
fully. He was all right if he
merely heard signals coming in,
but if he began to answer them
he was due for the rest-cure.
After a few weeks on the new
course, Neville Purdey, it was
obvious even without applying
this method of diagnosis, was in
the throes of the disease. He
was beginning to give at the
knees when he walked; his face
was assuming that frowning,
pinched, irrational expression;
his temper was becoming
vicious at the slightest interrup-
tion to his studies and he began
to intersperse his mumbled
signals with horrid colloquialisms
which were completely foreign
to his tongue.
I don’t know what finally hap-
pened, but when I left Bradfield
Park for Ballarat, he was a walk-
ing patient in the sick-quarters,
gloomily wandering about as if
in search of something mighty
elusive as he helped the nurses
with their chores,
HAVING completed my
course in nav.-wireless at
Ballarat and Mount Gambler
and finding myself again at a
loose end awaiting the
R.A.A.F.’s pleasure in the matter
of an operational-training post-
ing, I was pigeonholed to Port
Pirie, there to function as
w.-op. on the trainee-observers’
flights ; and who should turn up
there a month later, fresh,
happy, fully-recovered, and,
above all, with a pass in I.T.S.
Morse-code, but Neville Purdey
himself.
By some remarkable means
Neville had overcome his defect
of natural rhythm or hearing or
whatever had rendered him
hopeless at the code, and had
passed through his third I.T.S.
course with sweeping success.
But he had been categorised, not
for pilot but for air-observer
training,
lip was supremely confident of
attaining to any speed at all in
Morse-code, and his ardor was
not a whit dampened by the fact
that in his whole operational
career as a navigator he would
probably never listen to a Morse
signal nor touch a Morse key.
So Neville was most contented at
Port Pirie for a time and every-
thing went well until he began
flying.
Now, it is by no means
uncommon or unnatural for a
person to suffer airsickness on
his first flight, and his second,
and even on subsequent flights ;
but most bodies will adopt
themselves sooner or later to the
new element. There are an
unfortunate few, however, with
whom airsickness is an incurably
chronic complaint; and after a
time it became apparent that
poor Neville was one of these.
He was violently sick shortly
after take-off on his initial air-
experience ; and in every flight
thereafter it was just a question
of when it would happen and
how severe it would be. During
the first few months of his fly-
ing career, his unhappy progress
was marked by the innumerable
bulging paper-bags and brim-
ming berets he miserably cast
upon the length and breadth of
South Australia, Victoria and the
Southern Ocean.
White-faced and sweating, he
endured every flight like a true
Briton, doggedly pursuing his
plotting and his other duties dur-
ing the unhappy intervals be-
tween his preoccupation with his
sickness; and, green and half-
dead, he would lie on a seat in
the flight-office after landing,
waiting for his protesting frame
to settle down till the next time.
How he endured the agony of it
nobody will ever know, but he
did not speak about it himself;
and, indeed, if he had been at
all of the common calibre, he
would have reported the matter
to those in authority, and, after
due perseverance, would hav.
been scrubbed from flying.
But Neville was no ordinary
man, and he labored on for
months, time after time meticu-
lously scrubbing out aircraft
which he had inadvertently
sullied, waning progressively
worse until, finally, as he
walked towards the hangars to
board an aircraft, he had only
to raise his eyes to the unoffend-
ing kite to be sick on the spot.
Naturally, he tried every
known remedy and improvised
many of his own, to no avail.
He became thin and weary. He
lost all zest for life; and finally
he appeared to be fast heading
towards death. But fortunately
at this stage some dastardly
informer, compelled, perhaps, by
sheer pity, revealed Neville’s
plight to the knowing ones; and,
as I left on posting to West Sale,
the medical staff had him on his
back, pumping vitamins and
calories into him by the gross.
WEST SALE was as restful as
a home for convalescents;
even the mess was subdued,
whatever the hour, because the
C.O. drank nothing stronger than
sarsaparilla, and would put a
man on the dry for ordering two
stout shandies.
I had been posted there to do
a course of air-gunnery; but
after doing one - hour - fifty
minutes in the air, trying to hit
the Pacific with three-hundred
rounds in what was officially
known as air-to-water exercise,
I found myself dubbed instructor
and flying with less veteran
gunners to instruct them in air-
gunnery. Whether the Ansons
at West Sale had ever carried
flying gunnery-instructors before
I never inquired, and I don’t
know if it was customary for
officers to go there as pupils. I
just assumed, with the average
airman’s biased intolerance of
the management of the R.A.A.F.,
that one of the mighty had de-
cided that the presence of Reg
Carothers and myself there
would have been embarrassing
if we had taken lessons with the
airmen who, most of them, had
been only a few days in the
R.A.A.F., and were to be straight
gunners after a few weeks’
course.
So, after one short exercise,
we had been raised to our new
status, so that we could wipe our
mouths in comfort in the officers’
mess, while our fellow-pupils
pushed forward a tin plate for
plum-duff elsewhere. At any
rate, we were content. We
knew our guns slightly and we
knew our turrets and, strangely
enough, when our forty-four
days of instructing were over,
what we couldn’t do with a
o Continued on page 30)
THE DOGGER
Who’dl be a lonely man,
Who’d be a dogger
Following where the dingoes
follow
Sly shadows of water?
Who’d drive the hot red plain
In an old tin-lizzy,
Round and round on stone and
sand,
Sun blazing crazy?
Who’d lay the poison bait
When the moon is lonely,
Hanging his scalps in the cooli-
bah-tree
That rustles like dry money?
Who’d live the dingo’s life
For love and such small profit?
Why, Leather-faced Jack he’d do
just that
And he thinks nothing of it.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


Holding the Dingo Hordes
Out Where the
Dog-fence Runs
By SYDNEY SMITH
THE N. S. Wales dog-proof
fence is 357 miles long—
and it is doing a successful
job. too. Yet few people
know of its existence, and fewer
still know anything about it.
Set up and constantly main-
tained against dingo invasion, it
shuts in that top corner of N. S.
Wales you see on a map, part of
it thus running along the Queens-
land and part along the South
Australian border. Everything
about it is tough—the country ;
the conditions; the tempera-
tures ; the job of keeping the
fence there at all in the face of
such things as duststorms which
can leave sections of it com-
pletely buried in their wake.
N. S. Wales—it should be
explained—is marked out in
three land divisions: Eastern
and Central, in which a great
proportion of the land is free-
hold, and Western (where the
fence is), comprising an area of
80,318,708 acres, no less than
76,000,000 acres of which is
leasehold land owned by the
Government. To give an idea
of its vastness, the Western
Division covers two-fifths of the
whole State; it is larger than
Great Britain, with 3865/ square
miles to spare.
Practically all grazing country,
varying in carrying-capacity from
one sheep to three acres to one
sheep to 50 acres or more (and
hence making large holdings
necessary to give occupiers a
decent living), this Western
Division is administered by a
commission of three members
appointed for a 10-years’ term
and responsible to the State
Government: their services can
only be terminated by a resolu-
tion carried by both Houses of
Parliament. X was one of its
members from 1934 to 1944.
Most Australians, by now,
know something of the enemy
the fence is there to guard
against. William Dampier, in
his Voyage of the Roebuck
(1698-99), told of his men seeing
“two or three beasts like hungry
wolves, lean like so many
skeletons,” on the north-western
coast of what is now Western
Australia. It is held that the
Australian dingo originally came
from India along the Malayan
Peninsula before the land-bridge
sank under the sea. Certainly he
has much in common with the
wild dog of India, still to be
found in the Himalayas, and
known there as the “dhole.”
At all events, from the earliest
days of Australian land-settle-
ment the dingo has caused
trouble. Sheep are an easy prey
to him, and so also are calves,
and even sick or injured cattle.
He does not kill just, for the sake
of food ; he kills for the sake of
killing. He may attack a flock
of sheep at night, killing one
outright for food, but maiming
30 or 40 others that eventually
die of blood-poisoning. Some-
times several dingoes will
combine and muster the sheep
with the ability of well-trained
sheep-dogs. These packs have
known to drive a flock of
sheep to some spot where escape
is quite impossible, and then
turn-on their wholesale slaughter.
That, briefly, is the kind of
enemy the dog-proof fence has
to cope with. As a commission-
member, in addition to presiding
over Land Courts, etc., I had
the fence under my immediate
direction. I traversed the whole
357-miles length of it about four
times yearly, to keep au fait with
everything that was happening ;
and believe me much does
happen and quickly, too.
When, for instance, a section
of the fence is covered with sand
after a violent duststorm, a new
fence has to be erected over the
portion that is buried —you can’t
shift the sand!
The fence runs 217 miles along
the border between N. S. Wales
and Queensland, and 140 miles
between N. S. Wales and South
Australia. Its background story
is that in 1889 the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment erected a rabbit-proof
fence along the boundary be-
tween its State and South Aus-
tralia, from the Murray River up
to the comer, a distance of 346
miles. South Australia had no
interest in its maintenance, and
owners in N. S. Wales had to
pay for its upkeep. In 1906 it
was proclaimed a “barrier
fence,” and then the three boards
of the adjoining Pastures Pro-
tection Districts had the obliga-
tion of maintaining it forced on
them.
In 1910 South Australia
erected a dingo-proof fence for
a distance of 53 miles south from
the Queensland border, and
pointed out to N. S. Wales that
its erection would mean the
diverting of dingoes into this
State unless the remainder of the
“barrier fence” was made dog-
proof.
By 1912 the invasion of
dingoes from South Australia
had become so great and menac-
ing that N. S. Wales decided it
would be to the advantage of
both States to erect and maintain
an effective dog-proof fence for
a length of 132 miles, including
the 53 miles already erected, each
State to bear half the cost. In
1913 both Governments agreed
on this and the fence came into
being in 1916. South Australia
supervised and carried out the
work of maintenance, N. S.
Wales meeting half the cost.
In 1934, however, South Aus-
tralia said it had no further
interest in the fence and handed
it over lock, stock and barrel.
The decision of the South Aus-
tralian Government not to con-
tribute was difficult to under-
stand, seeing that practically all
the trade of the north-western
part of N. S. Wales goes to
South Australia. If the fence
was not properly maintained and
the dingo took possession the
loss in revenue to South Aus-
tralia would be very heavy. To
say the least, it was bad
politics.
It was just at this time that I
was appointed a member of the
Western Lands Commission. My
first act was to have another
eight miles added to the South
Australian section, making it 140
miles long.
The South Australian length
of the fence is patrolled by an
overseer and six boundary-riders
by means of horse-vehicles and
motor-trucks; up to 1939 only
camels were used. Each
boundary-rider is responsible for
maintaining and keeping in good
repair about 23 miles of fencing.
The fence —south to north —
runs mostly through sandhill
country, and consequently the
upkeep requires constant- and
efficient supervision. The
frequent duststorms make it
necessary for the men to be
ready at a moment’s notice in the
event of portion of the fence
being sanded over, or in case of
a “blow-out” —i.e., the sand
blown away from under the
fence. In some parts, both on
the South Australian and Queens-
land boundaries, three fences
have been erected, one on top of
the other, which means 19ft. 6in.
of fence —13ft. underground and
6ft. 6in. above!
Sometimes when a “blow-out”
occurs you will find the fence
perhaps 3ft. or 4ft. above
ground, and it has to be lowered.
The sand, of course, would
blow through the fence if there
was nothing to stop it, but with
dry herbage—especially “roly-
poly”—a wall is erected and the
sand thus banks up.
When I took over control, the
boundary-riders along the South
Australian stretch were housed
in shacks made of bushes with a
tent, inside, and they had to travel
miles on their camels to get water
for themselves and their animals.
The overseer had an old two-
roomed hut —if you could call it
such—like the leaning tower of
Pisa. With the temperature often
reaching 120 degrees in the
shade, and with the duststorms
on top of that, these arrange-
ments obviously called for recti-
fication in some way or other.
Moreover, in a case of sickness
or accident a boundary-rider
could die and no one know any-
thing about it. In fact there were
cases of this actually happening.
The first necessity for these
men —and, yes, their families —
was water, to save the long treks
to get it. Sites were selected and
six sub-artesian bores were put
down.
Next, cottages—of steel and
iron, to combat the destructive-
ness of white-ants —were erected
at the six bore-heads. They com-
prised three rooms, a kitchen, a
wide veranda all round, netted
to keep out flies and other
insects, and, above all, a bath-
room with water laid on from
the bore.
At the overseer’s headquarters
—moved from Boulka to Smith-
ville (named after myself)—l
had a pedal-wireless installed so
that those employed on the fence
could keep in touch with Broken
Hill, 160 miles away, and the
Flying Doctor there. Arrange-
ments were also made whereby
employees on the fence paid a
small annual fee entitling them
and their families to the free
services of the Flying Doctor,
transport by plane to Broken
Hill and hospital accommodation
during illness.
The Queensland-border fence
(217 miles) also has a history.
Many years ago a rabbit-proof
fence was erected along this
border, but it got into a state of
disrepair simply because N. S.
Wales would not contribute its
share for maintenance. The
Queensland Government there-
fore decided to have a rabbit-
proof fence of its own about one
chain in on the Queensland side
of the border, and thus there
was the spectacle of two fences
running side-by-side with one
chain between them!
In 1914 the influx of dingoes
from Queensland was so great
that they were a real menace to
the leaseholders on the N.S.W.
side of the fence. The lessees
thereupon formed a Queensland
Border Trust and made, at their
own expense, 132 miles of the
fence dog-proof. In 1916 a
further 35 miles was similarly
dealt with, while the balance of
50 miles was completed in 1918.
In 1919, however, several
portions of the fence broke down
—owing to severe duststorms in
some parts and to Bulloo River
floodwaters in another part —
and the dingoes came through
in hordes. The position was so
serious that the N.S.W. Govern-
ment passed the Wild Dog
Destruction Act in 1921, and the
control of dingo-destruction was
placed under the jurisdiction of
the Western Lands Commission.
To pay for maintenance of the
fences along both borders the
commission is empowered to
impose a rate not exceeding
1 /25th of a penny per acre per
annum on all land in the Western
Division, except land within a
municipality, town or village.
The rate imposed for the last 20
years has never exceeded 1 / 60th
of a penny. The amount col-
lected each year is also sub-
sidised by the Government to the
extent of 25 per cent.
In the same year as the Wild
Dog Destruction Act was passed,
the Queensland Government
gave the N.S.W. Government a
lease of the Queensland fence —
the one that was made dog-
proof —for a period of 999 years
at a peppercorn rental per
annum. One of the conditions
of the lease is that the fence at
the end of the 999 years must be
handed back to the Queensland
Government “in good and sub-
stantial repair and condition in
all respects.”
The Queensland Government
also gave the N.S.W. Govern-
ment full power to enter .upon
the land, 217 miles long by one
chain wide, for the purpose of
effecting repairs and maintain-
ing the fence. This strip of land
is now to all intents and purposes
in N. S. Wales, as the only
portion of the old fence existing
are odd posts here and there,
standing out in the open country
like the ruins of Pompeii.
The 10 men on the Queens-
land-border fence (including
overseer) are now housed in
comfortable cottages, erected
after the Western Lands Com-
missioners took over control in
1921 (their conditions were far
superior to those* of the men on
the South Australian-border
fence until the commission took
control of it also in 1934). The
Queensland-border men work
their fence with horses.
To give some idea of the de-
predations of the dingo it might
be mentioned that prior to the
two fences being made dog-
proof many lessees had to walk
off their holdings. Prior to the
passing of the Wild Dog Destruc-
tion Act, and the fences being
effectively repaired, big amounts
were paid in bonuses (a bonus
of £2 per dog is paid). In 1911
no fewer than 4284 dingoes were
destroyed in N. S. Wales, and in
the following years to 1923 the
m average was over 2000 per
annum. From then on the
menace has gra du ally
diminished, until now it is a
rarity to pay bonuses on more
than 50 dingoes per annum, and
this includes tame dogs gone
wild. This is a tribute to the
work of the overseers and men
employed on both border-fences.
Today the whole 357-miles
length of the dog-proof fence is
connected by telephone, known
as the Sydney Smith Telephone-
line. Erection of this line was
expedited because of the follow-
ing incident: In 1934, my first
year of office, I was at Urisino
station, 165 miles west of Bourke,
preparatory to driving a further
60 miles to the Queensland-
border fence. The overseer was
to meet me for ttye purpose of
selecting a bore-site on the fence,
but just before leaving Urisino
I received a telephone-message
from Milparinka, 115 miles
away, stating that the overseer
had broken his leg and was in
Tibooburra Hospital.
Subsequently I found that it
was the boundary-rider at whose
place the overseer was staying
prior to meeting me next day
who had had his leg broken, by
a kick from a horse. If the
overseer had not thus chanced to
be staying the night, the
boundary-rider’s wife—she had
two little children—would have
had to walk 30 miles over sand-
hills and rough country to get
{Continued on page 30)


SHEAF
STOUT
#
%
in every
There's 9
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
55.176.16
★ NOW AVAILABLE
AT ALL HOTELS
Missing Friend
WOULD any person knowing the where-
abouts of the driver of a green late
model Ford or Chevrolet Utility Truck
■which was involved in an accident with
Motor Vehicle MW93O on the Narrandera-
Grong Grong road about seven miles east
of Narrandera at approximately 6.80 p.m.
on 26th April, 1954, or anything con-
cerning the accident communicate with
the nearest Police Station or MESSRS.
MATTHEWS & DANGAR, Solicitors,
Narrandera, urgently. '
WILiTgILBERT OWEN BAXTER, nephew
of JOHN OWEN, of Boulder, please com-
municate with JACKSON, McDONALD,
CONNOR & AMBROSE. Solicitors, 55 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth.
Public Notices
I, ELIZABETH HELVY KOUROFF, of
Russian nationality, born at Batalpashinsk,
Russia, resident two years in Australia,
now residing at Daclea, Courland Street,
Randwick, intend to apply for naturalisa-
tion under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
L ZELMA BIKKEL, of Hungarian
nationality, born at Arkos, Rumania,
resident 7 years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 5 Marne Street, Vaucluse, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Sporting Notions
Apart from Karendi’s 9.9
the Doomben Ten Thousand —to
be run over seven furlongs les
93yds., on Saturday, July 3
weights appear to be on a flatter
ing scale, and at this stage the
sprint bears a fairly open appear
ance. Karendi’s rise in weigh
follows his Doncaster and Strad
broke wins, so he was due for it
At all events, owners of some
of the other contenders now fee
they have a chance of success
and among those that mighi
make it interesting are Birdwood,
Lord Bosworth, True Leader and
Desert Warrior, not overlooking
the present favorite, Gresford.
The handicapper’s job is to try
to bring his horses together, and
opinion is that Karendi’s 7ib.
extra for his Stradbroke success
won’t unduly burden him.
Gresford drew attention to
Doomben Ten Thousand pros-
pects when he cleared out with
the appropriately named Q.T.C.
Lightning Handicap in 58isec.,
a five-furlongs record for the
Ascot track. Australia’s best for
five furlongs, 58isec., is held by
All Love, a former speedy two-
year-old, and was registered at
both Randwick and Flemington.
By overseas standards, 58isec. is
modest, as several sprinters have
covered the distance in 56sec. or
better and the world-record is
54-|sec. The new record at
Ascot recalled a crack performer
over short disances of 50 years
ago—the flying galloper Machine
Gun. At Riccarton (N.Z.), in
November, 1904, he ran five fur-
longs in 58sec., carrying the
welter weight of 11.5. That is a
fraction better than the Aus-
tralian record. Two other New
Zealanders later recorder
57.4/ssec.
• c* • •
Gallant Archer ran 11 furlong
at the fast Ascot (Brisbane) traci
in Australian-record time o
2min. 15isec. in winning the
Q.T.C. Moreton Handicap. Hi
6-to-4-on supporters had an
anxious moment or two before
the decision by a nose-margin
was semaphored. Previous bes
for the distance, 2.15}, was made
by Burlesque at Caulfield m
November, 1934, so it had stooc
for close-on 20 years. Roya
Strip in New Zealand ran 2.15
last November, which time
equalled the English record made
in 1921 by Abbot’s Trace, while
it also was close to the world’s
best, 2.14}, standing to the credii
of American galloper Man o’
War, made in June, 1920.
Gallant Archer’s record places
Brisbane in the Commonwealth
list of fastest times for the first
time in several years. Spear
Chief ran two miles in 3.19| at
Ascot in 1939, and that was the
best for the distance till Comic
Court reduced it to ll years
later.
*
• • • '•
After New Zealander and hot
favorite Lancaster had made an
exhibition of his 10 opponents
in the rich Brisbane Cup—Lord
Forrest and Kowhata were in the
minor places—it was announced
that he could be purchased at
£15,000, but there was no rush
of buyers. After all, the gelding
is rising six years, and, as he won
the Q.T.C. race with 8.8, he seems
bound to get his share of weight
in the Melbourne Cup, for which
he is to be set. As Gold Scheme
won the rich Sydney Cup, New
Zealanders have scooped the pool
so far this year, and their success
says little for Australian staying
talent.
Small fields in both the Sydney
Cup and the Brisbane Cup have
caused the AJ.C. and the Q.T.C.
some concern. In rkces for stakes
of £12,000 clubs expect to attract
a top-class field of stayers. That
certainly wasn’t a feature of the
Brisbane Cup.
Tecora, winner of the Second
Minook Two-year-old at Caul-
field, is raced by W. Collie, for
whom he is trained by D. M.
Bradfield. The colt is a son of
“Must you show off?”
imported Masthead from Surma
and was bred by E. A. Under-
wood. Surma was foaled in 1944
and got by Dhoti (imp.) from
Battle Royal by The Night Patrol
(imp.) from Battery Queen by
Comedy King (imp.) from Cross
Battery by Stepniak. Tecora
thus belongs to a staying family.
Sir Masthead won at up to 14-
miles in England. The 1919 Mel-
bourne Cup winner. Artillery-
man, figures in the dam’s
pedigree. He was by Comedy
King (imp.) from Cross Battery.
Melbourne’s crack horseman Bill
Williamson won on Tecora, - and
also landed the first division of
the two-year-old event on hot
favorite Clear Springs, who also
had won at his prior Caulfield
start. Williamson has now ridden
63£ winners this season. Clear
Springs was the first winning
favorite in Melbourne for 24
races.
As soon as the two horses in-
volved in the closest of finishes
at Canterbury, favorite Prince o’
Scots and Durabay, had flashed
past the judge’s-line, long odds
were demanded by bookmakers
about Durabay, whose rider, N.
McGrowdie, rode to the win-
ner’s-stall before the result was
semaphored. Some punters laid
6 and 7 to 1 on Durabay, but
the photo showed him beaten by
a narrow margin. Evidently the
supposed infallible service sup-
plied to bookmakers by alleged
experts at picking the winner on
these occasions, or whatever it is
that brings about the laying-on
of such extravagant odds—this
time on a loser —was astray.
Anyway, jockeys should be pre-
vented from taking horses into
the winner’s-stall until the
numbers are semaphored.
Despite prior failures, Ocean
Flight had an easy task in win-
ning the Canterbury Two-year-
old Maiden for colts and geld-
ings. He was favored by a clear
run along the rails when the
leaders swung wide on the home-
turn. Veterinary-surgeon Viv
Davis, an S.T.C. committeeman
and the club’s hon. consulting
vet., bred the colt, who is by
Channel Swell (imp.) from Rap-
ture by Constant Son (imp.). He
is closely related to noted per-
former Amounis, and is a brother
to Lloric, an A.J.C. Breeders’
Plate winner.
Connections of ex-country
galloper Burradella had some-
thing to go on before his race at
Canterbury, the second-last on
the programme, the Second
Croydon Stakes. Burradella, at
the same track 10 days earlier,
had finished strongly in third
place to Silvero and Darling Mac
and on that occasion was backed
from 100 to 1 to 66’s. Daring
Mac won the First Croydon
Stakes on Saturday and Silvero
finished a sound third to Plato
and Nagpuni in the Flying, This
form pointed soundly to Burra-
della as a good show in his race,
yet four runners had backing
ahead of him. However, some
smart' punters forced his price
down from 15’s to 7’s, and he
won nicely.
• • •
Trained at Rand wick by H
Plant, Vienna Moon, a smart
two-year-old Hunter’s Moon
(imp.) colt from Miss Begonia,
has won at two of his last four
starts, both successes being at
provincial meetings. The colt is
a half-brother to the speedy
Henry The Seventh, now racing
in Brisbane; one of the fastest
horses on Sydney courses but not
possessed of the strongest heart.
Miss Begonia, dam of Vienna
Moon, is by Madagascar (imp.)
from Begonia by The Welkin
(imp.), and traces back to
Trenton, a noted stayer of the
early years. Begonia is a sister to
Myosotis, the dam of Chatham,
one of Australia’s greatest milers
-—dual winner of the A.J.C.
Epsom, three times winner of the
Craven Plate and three times
successful in the V.R.C. Lin-
lithgow Stakes. He also won the
Doncaster with 10.4.
Sitting on top of the world
after he had won the English
Derby on Never Say Die, Eng-
land’s 18-year-old crack jockey
Lester Piggott is now sitting at
home—and maybe reflecting on
his amazing turn of fortune
within the space of days. He
won’t be allowed to return to
the racecourse until the Jockey
Club stewards renew his riding-
licence. They withdrew it fol-
lowing an inquiry at Ascot into
the riding of his Derby mount,
Never Say Die, at the subsequent
Royal Ascot meeting. No indi-
cation was given as to how long
Piggott would be kept from race-
riding. He has ridden 300 win-
ners and has been suspended a
number of times, though only
for short periods. Cabled reports
were that Piggott tried to drive
Never Say Die through a gap as
the field hit the home-straight,
but he was blocked and there
was bumping. English stewards
are severe on jockeys if these are
the facts. In Australia the
offence would mean a reprimand
or at most a comparatively light
penalty.
Flimsy tote tickets (10s.) issued
in the enclosure at Epsom (Eng.)
have the code-word perforated,
as well as number of the race and
horse’s racebook number. Tote-
ticket forgers would have a job
in England. The Betting Control
Board prints the tickets —win,
place, doubles and “forecast.”
Last-named interested Australia
visitors to the Derby,
“forecast” betting the punter h
to place the first and seconc
horses in their correct order, anc
can operate on all races whe
there are three to seven starter
Place-betting pays three, as
Australia, when there are eight
more runners,
Sydney’s leading jocke
Neville Sellwood, has earnec
upwards of £lOO,OOO for owne
so far this season, but his thic
and-thin supporters, as in th
case of most prominent horse
men, are showing a loss by fo
lowing all his mounts on a £
straight-out basis. Sellwood
earnings based on prizemone
wins, plus losing mounts (an
he’s had upwards of 200 of thes
this season), have netted him
least £lOO a week —most likel
more, when presents ar
included.
* * *
Victoria wiped the Australia
Rules floor and the surroundin
countryside with the South Au
contingent of invaders —26.16 t
a very poor 6.9. The invader
bumped hard, and that seeme
about the sum of their talent.
* * ♦
In the big Rugby Union
game at Sydney Cricket Ground
on Saturday the N.S.W. team —
on paper probably the bes
State team since the war —
seemed to have the Fijians wel
beaten in the first half. It was
not a spectacular game, Jo
Levula, for the Fijians, con-
tributing color in a couple o;
fine runs, and young winger
Tony Fox scoring a try worth
seeing, but the Fijians were too
loose, and the N.S.W. team —
the backs, anyway—played with
a copybook precision which
was admirable Rugby, but, as
a spectacle, rather tame.
Levula’s try was a beauty, anc
a movement which didn’t come
off was also worth comment:
a run on his opposite wing, then
a kick and a follow-through,
which didn’t have much hope,
so far as Levula was concerned,
but which left the way clear for
the other winger, following fast,
to snap up the ball from the
scramble. But he was dumped
before he went far. Levula, too,
dropped the ball a good many
times.
At half-time N.S.W. was
leading 16-8. At full-time the
scores were 24-19, the Fijians’
way : which tells the whole
story.
* * *
The English Rugby League
team beat Queensland 34-32, in
what most observers agree was
a poor game, by international
standards. England’s colored
winger Billy Boston scored three
good tries.
Laurie Metcalf (10.9) and
Graham Moffit (10.7), heading
the latest Leichhardt bill,
turned on a slamming-bee, but
Metcalf was the better boxer,
and got it on points. In the
eight-round support Stan Davis
met Stan Davis, the encounter
being won per t.k.o. by Stan
Davis, not to be confused with
Stan Davis, who lost.


Fop Sale
WATSON’S BAY, V.P. COTTAGE,
Brick/Fibro, 2 8.R., close beach,
trams, furn„ £3500, or exchange for
coastal farmlet. Write Owner, 24 Cliff
St., Watson’s Bay, Sydney.
Divorce Notices
' IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JAMES BALDRY formerly of 35
Rosalind Street North Sydney. —TAKE
NOTICE that HARRY RICHARD MOY
has filed a- Petition No. 4982 of 1953 for
divorce against his wife BELLA MOY on
the ground that she has committed
adultery with you If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court House
King street Sydney in the State of New
South Wales by the 15th day of October
1954 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from JOHN WARREN
BINNEY, Solicitor, of 79 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Act-
ing Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
M’atbimoniad Causes Jurisdiction.
TO BELLA MOY formerly of Rosalind
Street North Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE
that HARRY RICHARD MOY has filed
a Petition No. 4982 of 1953 for divorce
on the ground that you have committed
adultery with JAMES BALDRY If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court House King Street Sydney
in the State of New South Wales by the
15th day of October 1954 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
JOHN WARREN BINNEY, Solicitor, of
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HAROLD WILLIAM MEHAN late of
Barton Street Mayfield.—TAKE NOTICE
that EVELYN ETHEL MEHAN has
filed a Petition for Divorce'No. 2043 of
1954 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 15th October 1954 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
J. BIRNIE JACKSON & COATES, Solici-
tors, of 117 Pitt Street, Sydney—o. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
TO ALAN EDWARD COOK formerly of
Healesville and formerly of Kew in the
State of Victoria but now of parts
unknown Sales. TAKE NOTICE
that your wife PATRICIA MARIE COOK
has instituted proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Victoria seeking
dissolution of her marriage to you on
the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards and unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s office
of the Supreme Court of Victoria at Mel-
bourne on or before the 20th day of
August 1954 the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs and if you intend to defend
this suit you must also file an answer
in the said office on or before the 30th
day of August 1954. —LESLIE COHEN
& FREADMAN, of 422 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
MOBILE WORKSHOP TRUCK
Ideal for station mechanic. Thames 3 ton chassis (less than 500
miles) with steel panelled body; wood floor; large perspex window
in roof; quick-action, heavy-duty, folding steps; double doors give
40in. wide access; mounted with as new Armstrong Siddeley 14 H.P.
Diesel, direct-coupled to 9 K.V.A., 3 phase 415 volt alternator,
complete with silencer, automatic voltage control, meters, switch
panel, etc.
Cab fitted with cross bubbles for levelling—steel levelling ramps
for 3 wheels.
Inside measurements of body, 7ft. wide, lift, long, 7ft. 4in. head
room. Registered until 29th January, 1955.
Just the thing for mounting lathe, welder, grinder, etc., for self-
contained mobile workshop.
This unit is as new, was made up to conduct experiment now
concluded.
Apply “WORKSHOP,” c/- BOX 906, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
F*uoi inihe
Ihdurc
Have you noticed how so much in Life goes by
iccident? The relative unimportances of today become
the vital decisive factors of tomorrow.
The truth of it came home to me this week when
I read of public concern for the revival of migration
to this country. Some of the hundreds of thousands
who have come here in the last few years have bee
British, others have been Europeans of various
nationalities.
Now were it not for one of those accidents of
History this great land might have been in other hands
than our own, and Britons might have been foreigners
seeking domicile in Australia today.
A Dutch ship from the Indies, the Duyfken, was
skirting Cape York Peninsula in ieQe Acapcmthe
Gulf of Carpentaria carries its name. Another Dutcn
man, Hartog, preceded the Englishman Dampier in
touching our western shores.
Abel Tasman had come and gone 126 years before
Captain Cook saw the real richness from the eastern
coastline and proclaimed the prize for Britain m 17-
La Perouse, the Frenchman, was navigating the; Aus-
tralian coast in the wake of Captain Phillip m 1788.
It is well for us to get this segment of History in
proper sight for I believe that only by appreciating our
extreme good fortune as inheritors can we do justice
to Australia—and ourselves. •
What have we here? A partly opened treasure
store covering 2,974,580 square miles of the earth A
kind land, glad in its harvests; stocked, but not fully,
to cattle; supplying 41 per cent, of the worlds wool,
encasing minerals rich for the atomic age;; with
external territories stretching from New Guinea to the
the Australian Antarctic at Heard and Macquarie
Islands . ..
A land crying for water, transport, mechanisation,
to bring it to full flowering.
Would other peoples have done better than we, in
the time we have had to develop it? The answer doesn t
matter _it could only end in the speculative.
But what does matter is that now, with all resolu-
tion, we should work and plan to be deserving of this
fortune. That’s the task. And it doesn t allow of
accident.
//./VasTwj'S
particular. There are three
minute portraits of women, post-
card-size, admirable as far as
they go.
The real Dali is in the other
two rooms. There is one of his
large flying Crucifixions, perhaps
the one that made some sort of
sensation in Glasgow, thin, shiny
and poster-like. There are
assorted cadavers and entrails.
Portraits made-up wholly of the
globular eyes of snapper. A
large portrait of a skull with
little skulls in the mouth and
eye-sockets. Pink angels sitting
by desolate seas. A most in-
genious piece of trick-painting —
like some of James Gleason’s
pranks with eyes, or like the
portrait of Christ which used to
open and shut its eyes in Swain’s
window in Sydney —in which
the head of an elderly nun dis-
solves into two old ladies with
white muffs, then reassembles.
There is a lot of his famous
jewellery, which, like Picasso’s
bicycle-handle sculpture, is Dali’s
latest device to catch the public
eye. A moonstone eye stares
wetly from its ruby socket. Two
lolling lips of rubies part to dis-
close a row of pearls like eggs
in a red basket. Odd segments
of the human anatomy are
pierced by metallic arrows. Gilt
hands clutch at nothing. A lop-
sided ruby heart —the piece de
resistance —eternally beats by
some electrical device in a cage
of golden ribs.
The jewellery is crude. The
oils are too thin and shiny to
please—they all have to be
shown in dim light—and, though
one grows accustomed to horror-
painting and surrealism just as
repellent can be found in the
frescoes at Pompeii, I really do
not care to see a civilised man
dabbling his hands in entrails.
It all seems to be only a moder-
ately clever art, and the only
things that amuse me in the show
are a number of elephants walk-
ing in the heavens on long thin
mantis-like legs, which remind
me a little of the extremely witty
elephants of Heinrich Kley, and
also a little of the drawings of
“Emett” in “Punch.”—D.S.
Stage and Music
Stem’s Recitals
Since he was in Sydney seven
years ago, Isaap Stern has geared
a deeper interpretative maturity
to his dazzling technique.
Of the six sonatas he played,
that by Cesar Franck gave the
most striking evidence of the
change. Sharing with his con-
temporary Brahms, on the other
side of the Rhine, a style which
fused the classical and romantic,
the Frenchman added an ingre-
dient peculiar to himself, a
spiritual ecstasy. It looms large
in parts of his violin sonata,
yet it fits in naturally with pages
of earthly joyousness. And it is
the best example of the cyclic
form in the literature for the
instrument. Stern’s playing of
it was magnificent.
There were also Beethoven s
“Spring” Sonata, still verdantly
fresh; Brahms’s No. 3 in D
Minor, the best dramatic quali-
ties, of which were drawn from
the deep-singing G-string; the
Prokofieff in F Minor, combin-
ing furious energy and strong
rhythms with a dash of fantasy ;
Handel’s D Minor, its graceful
phrases embellished with in-
genious filigree-work; and
Bartok’s No. 1, a dose of musical
bitter-aloes.
There were three unaccom-
panied works by Bach ; dominat-
ing these was the Chaconne from
the D Minor Partita, which
Stern built up, over a beautifully-
laid ground-bass, to a colossal
piece of architecture in sound.
One of the most attractive of
the shorter pieces was the too-
seldom-heard Haydn’s “Adagio, ’
a gently-flowing stream of rich
melody. The Introduction and
Rondo Capricciozo made a
polished exposition of Saint
Saen’s most felicitous style;
there was a charming Kreisler
arrangement of a little Rondo
from Mozart’s Haffner Seren-
ade ; two Dances from Proko-
fieff’s “Romeo and Juliet,” in
which wit was fitted ballet-shoes ;
and the intensely devout Nigun
from Bloch’s “Baal Shem” Suite.
Fireworks were provided by
Paganini’s “La Camponella” and
Ravel’s “Tzigane.”
Alexander Zakin collaborated
at the piano in the chamber-
music with great skill, and else-
where as accompanist with a
rich appreciation of the key-
board’s exact value.
“Dear Charles”
“Dear Charles,” by Alan Mel-
ville (an adaptation from the
French), is keeping Melbourne
Comedy audiences simmering
with laughter at the story of an
authoress, thrice an unmarried
mother, who suddenly feels
under an obligation to legitima-
tise her three grown-up children.
She invites the various
fathers, now greying around the
temples, to her flat in Paris to
get acquainted with their off-
spring, whom none of them
knew existed. This situation is
usually termed French and
daring, but, although it may be
French, it’s certainly not par-
ticularly daring, and it isn’t re-
viewed from any human angle.
It becomes, in fact, a vehicle
for Miss Sophie Stewart, a
charming actress, to give a
superb display of dressage, and,
having avoided all the hurdles,
to ride gaily to the final curtain.
Nobody else matters much in
the smartly-done production,
and, in any case, Ellis Irving,
Clement McCallin and Tony
Thawnton are in such an awk-
ward situation as the discarded
lovers that everything they do
can’t help seeming awkward.
The same applies to Richard
Meikle, Michael Plant and
Fenella Maguire as the children
with de facto fathers.
* ❖ ❖
“Waltz of the Toreadors”
“Waltz of the Toreadors”
(Independent, Sydney) offers a
much less liverish evening than
most of Anouilh’s plays. Though
its formula is that of a good bed-
room-farce, it differs from ortho-
dox bedroom-farce in two most
curious ways: one is the abrupt
plunge into sour tragedy when
the action finally enters a bed-
room ; the other lies in its being
a bedroom-farce with a “mes-
sage.” It is also a glistening
fountain of words, and Lucienne
Hill’s sensitive translation of
Anouilh’s sentient French de-
serves praise.
The play demands fine acting
and gets it, notably from Marcel
Wattel as General Saint-Pe. The
poor old General, so dreads hurt-
ing others that he remains
shackled to a hellish wife, who,
among other neurotic blandish-
ments, insists she has lost the
use of her legs T she hangs on,
however, to the use of her
tongue, and her curses scorch the
bedclothes. Diana Bell attacks
this role with gusto, and Madame
le Generate spews malice like a
geyser of scorpions.
Nonetheless, the General has
a passable time of things, what
with having enough money, fat
doses of wit from the local
Docteur, and the housemaids.
A stirring-up is given this provin-
cial stew when Mile, de Sainte-
Euvert arrives’'from Paris. She
and the General have been loftily
in love, per mailbox, for 17
years, and she feels it is high
time to get their love onto a less
lofty plane.
Despite the plot’s comic
absurdities, Jean Blarney recap-
tures, here, the leisured grace of
a vanished class. There is even
something supremely ladylike in
the way she blows down the
muzzle of her pearl-handled
revolver, trying to put it in
working order. (“It, too, has been
waiting for 17 years.”)
The “message” behind all this?
Perhaps Anouilh agrees with
Andre MaUrois that “Civilisa-
tion’s deadliest inventions are
gunpowder and romantic love.”
G. P.
♦♦♦
“Romeo and Juliet ”
The Sydney Con. Opera
School’s production of Gounod’s
charming setting of the Shak-
speare play was a big advance on
anything it had previously
attempted. The cast was the
strongest yet assembled, there
was an engaging spontaneity and
freshness in the love-scenes, and
an excellent realism about the
duels between Tybalt and
Mercutio and Romeo and
Tybalt.
Marjorie Conley, as fair a
Juliet as any Romeo might wish
for, was the surprise of the night;
her singing and acting have
improved out of sight since last
season. Michael Khlentzos was a
manly Romeo, and his tenor,
weak only in the low regions,
rang out brilliantly at times.
A classical performance came
from a newcomer, Rodney
Smith, whose Mercutio was
always full of fire. He adds a
fine baritone to an impressive
appearance and natural acting-
ability. His Queen Mab aria
was most attractively sung.
* ❖ ❖
“II Seraglio”
The National Opera Com-
pany’s production of “II
Seraglio” was not up to the
standard of the performance of
“II Trovatore” with which the
company opened its current
Sydney season.
It has more spoken dialogue
than most Mozart opera buffa,
and a plot which moves slowly;
so, if the piece is not to lag, it
must have tiptop dressing and
decor and principals who can
sing with rare judgment and
command a wide range of speech-
inflexion, expression and gesture.
Those standards were rarely
reached.
It was, however, Frank Lisle’s
opera. As Osmin, factotum of
the Bashaw Selim, from whose
Turkish harem two captured
European girls are being rescued
by their lovers, he cursed and
rampaged his way through every
scene with telling vigor and
using his fine bass most effec-
tively.
Robert O’Donnell skipped
around joyously enough as
Pedrillo, his tenor just barely
adequate; Leslie Adams’s
Belmont lacked color, though at
times he achieved Mozartian
delicacy with his light tenor;
Alan Light, in the non-singing
role of the Bashaw, went too
close to eisteddfod-elocution
style.
Tais Taras, appealing enough
to the eye, sang Constance in a
soprano inclined to harsh edges
on full volume, but elsewhere of
pleasing timbre. Betty Prentice
was a suitably-pert Blonda, her
coloratura singing a delight.
The orchestra under Georg
Tintner handled Mozart’s nimble,
melodious score sattslactonly.


\\w-
Senator McCarthy and
the Catholic Church
Is it true that an increasing num-
ber of Catholic Church leaders in
the TJ.S.A. are condemning Senator
Joseph McCarthy? The current issue
of the League of Rights’ INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY answers this ques-
tion in an article exposing how the
Communist-inspired smear campaign
is being directed against an Ameri-
can patriot. The daily press features
every criticism of McCarthy while
suppressing the praise of Cardinal
Spellman and other prominent
THE INTELLIGENCE SURVEY
also brings to Australians the full
text of McCarthy’s great speech,
“Twenty Years of Treason,” which
has never been answered. Every
month this publication makes avail-
able to Australian patriots objective
comment, articles and vital informa-
tion concerning the Communist con-
spiracy against Christendom.
Single issues of THE INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY: 4/-, post free.
Annual subscription: £2 25., post
free. Order from The Victorian
League of Rights (non-party; non-
sectarian), 343 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
PATTERN FOR CONQUEST
In asking to have the follow-
ing “memorandum” printed in
the “Congressional Record”
(U.S. equivalent of “Hansard”),
Senator William F. Knowland
described it as “some informa-
tion which came to me, purport-
ing to be an outline of Mao Tse-
tung’s memorandum on the new
programme for world revolution,
carried to Moscow by Chou
En-lai in March, 1953. I believe
the information substantially
states the Communist policy on
world revolution”:
• * ♦
Asia to be the. Immediate
Goal. —-Due to the profound
leadership of Comrade Stalin,
amazing achievements have been
made in the great task of world
revolution. The success that has
been attained both in Europe and
Asia after World War II is
entirely attributable to Comrade
Stalin’s able and correct guid-
ance and direction. May his
wisdom still guide us.
It appears that the time has
come that we have to look upon
Asia as our immediate goal. In
the present circumstances, any
vigorous action in Europe such
as internal revolution, effective
infiltration, or intimidation into
inaction or submission is now
impossible [Communist termin-
ology is different; this represents
what it really means]. More
forcible measures may bring
about a war. In Asia*, on the
contrary, such tactics will yield
an abundant harvest.
♦ -r *
World War to be Temporarily
Avoided. —There is no assurance
of victory because of the higher
rate of industrial production and
larger stockpile of atomic
weapons on the part of the
capitalist countries, incompletion
of anti-atomic defences of the
industrial areas and oil-installa-
tions in the Soviet Union and
immaturity of China’s agricul-
tural and industrial develop-
ments. Consequently, until we
are certain of victory, we have to
take a course which will not lead
to war.
* * *
Diplomatic Offensive. The
United States must be isolated
by all possible means. Britain
must be placated by being con-
vinced that there is possibility of
settling the major issues between
the East and the West, and that
the Communists and the capitalist
countries can live in peace.
Opportunities for trade will have
a great influence on the British
mind.
In the case of France, her war-
weariness and fear of Germany
must be thoroughly exploited.
She must be made to feel a sense
of greater security in co-
operating with us than with the
Western countries,
Japan must be convinced that
rearmament endangers instead of
guaranteeing her national
security, and that, in case of war,
the American forces distributed
all over the world cannot spare
sufficient strength for the defence
of Japan. Rearmament is, there-
fore, an expression of hostility
toward her potential friends. Her
desire to trade will offer great
possibilities for steering Japan
away from the United States,
♦ * ♦
Military Preparedness. —As a
final goal, there should be in East
and South-East Asia (after these
areas are liberated) 25-million
well-trained men who can be
immediately mobilised. These
men are to be held in readiness
for emergency. They will achieve
two purposes. On the one hand
-St. Louis (U.S.A.) “Post-Dispatch”
THE REAPER
they will force the capitalist
countries to keep on increasing
defence expenses until economic
collapse overtakes them. On the
other hand, a mere show of force,
when the time is ripe, will bring
about the capitulation of the
ruling cliques of the countries to
be liberated.
* * *
The Korean War. The
important reason that we cannot
win decisive victory in Korea is
our lack of naval strength.
Without naval support, we have
to confine our operations to
frontal attacks along a line
limited by the sea. Such actions
always entail great losses, and
are seldom capable of destroying
the enemy. In March, 1951, I
suggested to Comrade Stalin to
make use of the Soviet sub-
marines in Asia under some
arrangement that the Soviet
Union would not be apparently
involved in the war. Comrade
Stalin preferred to be cautious
lest it might give the capitalist
imperialists the pretext of
expanding the war to the con-
tinent. I agreed with his point
of view. Until we are better
equipped for victory, it is to our
advantage to accept agreeable
terms for an armistice.
♦ * ♦
Formosa. —Formosa must be
incorporated into the People's
Republic of China because of the
Government’s commitment to
the people. If seizure by force is
to be avoided for the time being,
the entry of the Chinese People’s
Government into the United
Nations may help solve this
problem. If there should be
serious obstacles to the immediate
transfer of Formosa to the
control of the People’s Govern-
ment, a United Nations Trustee-
ship over Formosa as an inter-
mediary step could be taken into
consideration.
♦ ♦ *
Indo-China. —We shall give
the maximum assistance to our
comrades and friends in Indo-
China, The experiences we have
had in Korea should enrich their
knowledge in fighting for libera-
tion. The case of Indo-China
cannot be compared with that of
China. In Indo-China, as in
Korea, there is serious interven-
tion of the capitalist bloc, while
in China there was nothing so
direct and vigorous. The experi-
ences in Korea tell us that so
long as there is foreign interven-
tion and so long as we have no
naval support, military opera-
tions alone cannot achieve the
objective of liberation.
The military operations in
Indo-China should be carried out
to such an extent as to make the
war extremely unpopular among
the French people and to make
the French or Americans
extremely hateful among the
Indo-Chinese people. The
object is to force the French
to back out of Indo-China, pre-
ferably through the face-saving
means of an armistice. Once
foreign intervention is out of the
picture, vigorous propaganda,
infiltration, forming united fronts
with the progressive elements in
and outside the reactionary
regimes will accelerate the
process of liberation. A final
stroke of force will accomplish
the task. Two years may be
needed for this work.
* * *
Burma, Thailand, Indonesia
and Malay Peninsula. —After the
liberation of Indo-China, Burma
will fall in line, as a good founda-
tion has already been laid there.
Then the reactionary ruling
clique in Thailand will capitulate
and the country will be in the
hands of the people. The libera-
tion of Indonesia, which will fall
to the Communist camp as a ripe
fruit, will complete the circle
around the Malay Peninsula.
The British will realise, in these
circumstances, the hopelessness
of putting up a fight and will
withdraw as quickly as they can.
We expect that the whole process
will be completed in or before
1960.
* *
Japan and India.—By 1960
China’s military, economic and
industrial power will be so
developed that with a mere show
of force by the Soviet Union and
China the ruling clique of Japan
will capitulate and a peaceful
revolution will take place. We
must be on guard against the
possibility that the United States
will choose to have war at this
moment. She may even want the
war earlier. The defensive and
offensive preparations of the
Soviet Union and China must,
therefore, be completed before
1960. Whether we can prevent
the United States from starting
the war depends upon how much
success we have in isolating her
and how effective is our peace
offensive. If the war can be
averted, the success of our plan
of peaceful penetration for the
other parts of Asia is almost
assured.
In the case of India, only
peaceful means should be
adopted. Any employment of
force will alienate ourselves from
the Arabic countries and Africa,
because India is considered to be
our friend.
* * *
Arabic Countries and Africa. —
After India has been won-over,
the problems of the Philippines
and the Arabic countries can be
easily solved by economic co-
operation, alliances, united
fronts and coalitions. This task
may be completed in 1965. Then
a wave of revolution will sweep
over the whole continent of
Africa and the imperialists and
the colonisationists will be
quickly driven into the sea. In
fact, this powerful movement
may have been under way much
earlier.
With Asia and Africa discon-
nected from the capitalist
countries in Europe, there will be
a total economic collapse in
Western Europe. There capitula-
tion will be a matter of course.
* * 3*
The United States. —Crushing
economic collapse and industrial
breakdown will follow the Euro-
pean crisis. Canada and South
America will find themselves in
the same hopeless and defence-
less condition. Twenty years
from now, world revolution will
be an accomplished fact. If the
United States should ever start a
war, she would do so before the
liberation of Japan, the Philip-
pines and India. The courses of
action in that event are outlined
in the Memorandum on Military
Aid.
Communist Defiance
David Lawrence, editor of
“U.S. News and World Report,”
has consistently maintained that
negotiations with Communists
are futile, and that a clear
demonstration of strength and
the readiness to use it are the
only things the Soviet appreciates.
His examination here of the
background to Communist
intransigence ties in remarkably
well with the appraisal of the
Geneva Conference by Malcolm
Muggeridge, editor of “Punch,”
as “another Munich”:
“The attitude of the Com-
munist negotiators at every con-
ference or discussion or negotia-
tion since 1945 has been in the
main the same. Minor conces-
sions on inconsequential matters
have been made, but these serve
only to emphasise what has not
been conceded.
“Some consciousness of
strength must actuate the Com-
munists to express publicly their
contempt for the Western nations
and to carry on simultaneously
their steady encroachment on the
smaller countries of the free
world. What is back of it all?
“What is the basis for such
confidence? It must be that they
are sure we will not throw the
first bomb, and there may be
good reasons why they them-
selves plan never to throw one,
either.
“The biggest source of reliance
for the Soviets must be the con-
viction that the democracies will
surrender area after area without
a fight—that they will give-in :o
almost any demand rather than
risk the fury of another world
war. The Communists are


Calorific
Value
|
i
i
IK
:
a
Ik
PULVERISED FUEL FIRING-TYPE E MILLS
a
jpmmra
3
SKB
H
OIL AND
GAS BURNER
The calorific value of a fuel is realised to the
maximum degree as useful energy, only
through efficient combustion; and efficient
combustion must be sought in many different
ways with different fuels. No one has been
more closely concerned with the problem
than Babcock & Wilcox, the world’s leading
makers of steam-raising plant, who have, over
a period of 75 years, developed methods and
equipment for the most efficient burning of
the widest diversity of fuels both solid and
liquid, from coal and oil to bagasse and black
liquor.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OE AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK. N.S.W,
Branch Office and Agencies in all Slates
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
encouraged in this belief by the
disunity of the Allies and by
their hesitancy to face facts.
“Just as Hitler was convinced
that Britain and France wouldn’t
wage an all-out war in 1939, and
that he could add Poland to his
list of conquered countries, so
the Soviets, looking about m
Asia as well as Europe, see the
extent of their own influence
widening all the time without any
really serious resistance. Our
[U.S.] stand in Korea would have
been impressive if we had allowed
our Air Force to bomb bases in
Manchuria and to destroy the
lines of supply from China *o
Korea, and if our Navy had
been allowed to blockade the
China coast, as our joint Chiefs-
of-Staff recommended. But our
European allies vetoed that plan
in the autumn of 1950.
“So the Soviet rulers are play-
ing here the same game that
Hitler played and that, to a some-
what lesser extent, the Japanese
war-lords played in their negotia-
tions with us in the summer and
autumn of 1941. The Com-
munists lead from strength, and
they will continue to do so until
the Western countries have a plan
for united action that looks
militarily as if it could be effec-
tive whenever the challenge
comes. As Secretary of State
Dulles says, we must be ready
to take the risks of peace or we
will find ourselves in war.
“There is no substitute for
military strength when dealing
with a ruthless and intransigent
foe. The test is here now in the
Indo-China situation. The
peoples of Soviet Russia and the
satellite States will be
emboldened to throw off the
Communist yoke only if they are
sure we are strong enough to
checkmate the Kremlin’s march.
“Moral force —the attempt to
win away the peoples of Soviet
Russia and China from the
Moscow clique and the Peiping
clique, respectively—must go
hand-in-hand with the build-up
of our military power in Europe
and Asia. Then, and only then,
will it be possible for interna-
tional conferences to succeed in
settling disputes between the East
and the West.”
Gibraltar
Answering one of the
spasmodic outbreaks of Spanish
feeling about Gibraltar, Sir
David Kelly, in London “Sunday
Times,” avers that Spain has
no moral, historical or legal
claim to the Rock.
Ethnographically, he points
out, the inhabitants are not
mainly Spanish, the Spanish
section of about 6000 having
migrated to San Roque when the
Rock was taken for the British
Crown on July 24, 1704. Of the
1952 population of 24,085, the
majority were of Italian origin,
with Maltese next, A Spanish
minority is mainly dependent on
the dockyards and other public
works needed by the great naval-
base.
Historically, it is not a part of
ancient Spain. The oldest inhabi-
tants are the monkeys, and there
is no sign of permanent human
habitation before 711 a.d. In
that year a Moorish chief built a
castle on the Rock to secure his
communications while invading
Spain, and, except for a brief
period of Spanish conquest, it
remained Moorish until 1462, or
for 727 years.
The Spaniards occupied it from
1462 until 1704, a total of 242
years, and eight years less than
British occupation. Further, the
Spanish title rested purely on
conquest, whereas that of Britain
rests also on a series of solemn
treaties:
“In international law, the
British claim is complete. By
the Treaty of Utrecht (1713)
‘The Catholic King hereby for
himself, his heirs and successors’
gave to the British Crown ‘the
full and entire property’ in the
whole of Gibraltar ‘to be held
and enjoyed absolutely with all
manner of right for ever without
any exception or impediment
whatsoever.’
“The British Crown agreed that
if ever it were to be given up,
‘a preference... .shall be given
to the Crown of Spain. This
clear title was, in effect, con-
firmed by the Treaty of Seville
(1729), the Treaty of Vienna
(1731), and notably by the Treaty
of Versailles ri7B3).
“This last treaty followed a
four-year siege by France and
Spain which had completely
failed, and the Spanish Govern-
ment had let it be known that the
claim to , Gibraltar would be
dropped in return for the cession
of Minorca and Florida.
“These two territories were
—Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun”
PROGRESS OF MANKIND
therefore returned to Spain by
the treaty, and if such claims
are to be pressed, Britain might
well ask—if Gibraltar could be
given up—for the return of
Florida, which Spain sold to the
U.S.A. in 1819!
“This was not an imposed
peace dictated to a. defeated
country; it was freely made be-
tween two independent States,
both of which were undefeated,
but anxious to end a long and
costly war. Thus there can be
few overseas territories belong-
ing to any State which are held
by a legal title so clear and so
repeatedly confirmed.”
Australia—U.S. View
“A staunch and potentially
strong ally protecting the
southern flank of the Pacific
basin” is the assessment of Aus-
tralia in a “U.S. News and World
Report” examination of the
country as a member of the
possible South-East Asia line-up
against Communism.
“If the enemy wins Indo-China
by one means or another,” the
paper adds, “Australia is to
become the key in a new defence-
line for the West.
“Military experts, forced to
take a close look at this area
because of what is happening in
South-East Asia, find a country
stronger today than when it was
fighting alongside the United
States in World War 11.
“It has more people, with a
total population of nearly nine-
million, It has a small but high-
calibre fighting-force, vigorous
new industries and other strategic
resources, now being developed
with imagination and energy.
“The limited peace-time armed
force, like almost everything else
in Australia, is a product of a
chronic weakness in this country
—not enough people. More than
600,000 migrants from Britain
and Europe have been brought
in since the war under a Govern-
ment programme to build-up
population, but manpower is still
woefully short.
“Despite an intensive campaign
to coax more people into the
country, the goal of 20-million
people is still years away. It
may never be achieved.
“In the past, however, nothing
has ever interfered with Aus-
tralia’s ability to fight, once the
chips are down. And this time—
despite traditional ties to Britain
—there is no question among
observers that the Australians are
following U.S. leadership in
South-East Asia.
“Military men say that, if the
U.S. should ever be forced to
use ‘massive retaliation’ against
Communist aggression, the Aus-
tralians will go along, perhaps
gingerly. And if a big war
explodes in Asia they will be in
quickly—and all the way.
“Even without war, the vast
Australian continent is beginning
to emerge now as a key in any
new ‘collective-security’ arrange-
ment the U.S. may undertake to
, 1 r *u inrnafk
check further Com ‘
m the Pacific.
No Difference
On tke proposed visit of Attlee,
Revan and co. to Communist
China, London ’ “Financial
Times” notes that “cynical
members of the Socialist party
are reported to be congratulating
themselves on the decision of
their executive to dispatch both
Mr. Attlee and Mr. Bevan on a
trip to China”:
“By exporting to the East the
heads of both wings of that
brawling party, they hope for a
quiet summer in which many a
Socialist bruise may be plastered
over with vinegar and brown
paper.
“Nobody among the Socialists
seems to have given a thought to
the effects upon our allies of this
official party-visit, led by a
former British Prime Minister
and by the man most ambitious
to step into his shoes.
“The Americans are quite right
to complain bitterly about the
appeasing mission of Mr. Attlee
and his colleagues to Mr. Mao
Tse-tung. But there should be
loud complaints in this country,
too.
“This China venture brings to
a head an important question:
Ought members of Parliament to
be perpetually jaunting round the
world at other people’s expense?
Are they wise to put themselves
under an obligation to foreign
Governments by freely accepting
their hospitality?
“We are all familiar with our
sagacious constitutional laws
against M.P.s holding ‘offices of
profit under the Crown.’ Perhaps
the time has come to introduce
a new rule against their accepting
vacations at the expense of
foreign dictators.”
Meanwhile, as a London
“Daily Mail” columnist remarks,
“When Mr. Attlee and Mr. Bevan
get to China they will find that
their hosts recognise no split in
the British Labor party. In a
new reference-book published for
Chinese schoolteachers both
appear under one heading:
‘Foreign reactionaries.’ ”
Free-trade in Books
One United Nations project
which is making some headway
is the Unesco proposal that there
should be no Customs-duties on
books, newspapers, magazines,
works of art, music-scores, educa-
tional films, scientific equipment
and articles intended for the use
of the blind.
“Up to date,” Toronto “Globe
and Mail” has commented,
“17 countries have accepted
this Unesco scheme, but the
list includes only two of the
major Powers, Britain and
France. The others are a curious
international assortment: Cam-
bodia, Laos and Vietnam, the
three Associated States of Indo-
China ; Yugoslavia, Egypt, Israel
and Pakistan; Ceylon, Siam and
the Philippines; Cuba and El
Salvador; Sweden, Switzerland
and Monaco.
“One interesting point about
this group is that a majority of
its members would ordinarily be
classified as ‘backward’ by
Western standards. They are
apparently more concerned about
cultural exchange than some of
the ‘advanced’ nations. A second
point to note is that no State
behind the Iron Curtain has
joined the league for free-trade
in ideas.
“The Unesco plan is an
excellent one, and it should have
suppor t of every civilised
countrv. Regardless of vested
interests, there should be no tax-
barrier to the circulation of
books or anv other things which
could help nations to understand
notber »
'
Various Voices
The Archbishop of Canter-
bury : “The greatest danger of
today is not the hydrogen-bomb.
At its very worst, all that could
do would be to sweep a vast
number of persons at one
moment from this world into the
other, and more vital world, into
which, anyhow, they must all pass
some time.”
John Cowles [president of
Minneapolis, U.S.A., “Star and
Tribune”): “Too many
Americans, including again too
many members of Congress, seem
to assume that the United States
can unilaterally decide what we
want to do, crack the whip like
a circus ringmaster, and compel
our allies to jump through the
hoop. I don’t believe it is that
simple.”
„,. f r . „
British tramp Ernie Henson,
on the Welfare State: We have
been registered, checked, urged
into newfangled reception-
stations, persuaded to take
regular jobs, bathed, questioned
and generally treated as pre-
historic freaks.”
„ c (IT ,
Harold E. Stassen: The
Kremlin leaders have not yet
learned that there has never been
and never will be freedom from
war as long as there is war on
freedom
E. H. C. Leather, British Con-
servative M.P.: “The question
at issue in Germany is unhappily
not ‘Will the Germans rearm?’—
of course they will, sooner or
later, and nothing but force can
ever stop them. The only ques-
tion worth considering is ‘How
will the Germans rearm?’ It is
notable that our Bevanite friends
make passionate speeches against
rearming Western Germany, but
I have yet to hear one of them
even protest mildly about the
rearming of Soviet Eastern
Germany.”


TILLEY Regd. Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
L
For quality —for economy —for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hows on 1J pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer’s Representatives: (“THE guardsman 1
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.|.
While import restrictions
remain you may have diffi-
culty in obtaining; HULKS’
products. ,
STOP SMOKING
It is now possible to stop
smoking easily and quickly
with a fried and tested
method. Become a non-
smoker again and enjoy
good health once more. For
details (sent in plain enve-
lope) send your name and
address with stamp to;
AUSTRALIS SALES,
Box 36, P.O. Cremorne,
N.S.W.
Browning gun or a Bristol turret
their inventors wouldn’t know
about.
We were happy—eating and
sleeping well, playing billiards
and ping-pong and drinking
weak lemonade, and going out
two or three times a day in
Ansons with three pupils apiece
who were supposed to fire three-
hundred rounds each at the sea,
at a drogue or at a target on the
ground.
I was perfectly happy—until
one day the übiquitous Neville
Purdey turned up to take the
gunnery course. Perhaps I
should have been overjoyed, not
only because Neville seemed fit
and well again hut also because,
after being scrubbed off two
I.T.S. courses and an observers’
course, he had been surprisingly
permitted, with all the official
odds against him, to undertake a
straight gunner’s course.
In addition, Neville was most
sanguine in his assurances that
this course would be successful;
for now he had cured his air-
sickness. Worry, anxiety, appre-
hension, everything in that line,
Neville assured me, were the
root causes of the disease. The
hurry and bustle of navigation,
combined with the novelty of
flying, had befen primarily the
reason for his discomfiture. The
gunner’s job was relatively easy
and unworrying, and in addition
he had found a new and
marvellous elixir which made
airsickness practically impossible.
My remaining scepticism on
that score was not the cause of
my unhappiness with regard to
Neville. What really touched me
was the obvious change in him,
A certain crust of something—
carelessness, perhaps, or bravado
—was fast hemming-in his
unique innate refinement and
his delicately cultivated condes-
cension. In fact, one might say
he was becoming common and
coarse, even as all other airmen.
For instance, on the very day
he reached West Sale, he said
about one rather obese officer
who did not favorably impress
him: “I should hesitate to say
that he was a swine; but I
shouldn’t wonder, if one of his
cheeks \*£ere cured, that it would
do very well for Christmas.”
And I felt that, in this condition,
Neville’s excellent morale might
be to collapse with a
further great blow.
However, when Neville com-
pleted his first two, air-gunnery
exercises without feeling the
slightest touch of sickness, I
began to feel quite pleased on
that score at least.
HTHEN came the terrible day
•*- when all my fears were
realised.
My second trip on that day
was at 1430 hours with Flight-
Sergeant Clifford, pilot, Neville,
and two other veteran pupils
who had previously fired at least
a thousand rounds at something
or other. As we took off I was
contemplating a good hour’s
sleep, because these veterans
should be able to deal with most
gun-stoppages and, best of all,
the part of the cabin behind the
rear main- spar would not be
awash, as so often was the case,
with the malodorous results of
airsickness. X had had a late
night the night before, so I
settled back dreamily and
watched the passing scene as we
climbed to two-thousand and
flew towards the coast; but I
was destined to have no sleep
and a strenuous hour into the
bargain.
Firstly, the towing-aircraft was
ten minutes late and Clifford,
who was one of the young pilots
with a couple of hundred hours
who were sent to training
stations such as West Sale for
experience, spent the time prac-
tising steep turns. No doubt
Clifford eventually blossomed
into a competent pilot, but in the
bud his latent prowess was well
concealed. He handled his air-
craft as a rough bullocky might
handle his team, and went at a
turn as a bull at a gate.
So our second bit of trouble
naturally followed: a small thin
gunner passed through all the
stages of white and green and
then spread his breakfast all over
the floor, and the smell of the
returned fried chops, onions and
oatmeal porridge, the sharp
odor of spent cordite, the effect
of gun explosions and the engine
noises on the semicircular
canals, and the G caused by
rough turns aided by a certain
amount of bumpiness caused by
upcurrents off the water —all
these conspired to make the
other pupil sick.
To walk from the rear spar to
the turret-door was to paddle
through the remains of two
obviously excellent breakfasts.
One chap did have the decency,
amid all the confusion, to use a
paper-bag, but he held it until
the bottom fell out of it, so he
might as well have used the
floor. Neville, I thought, looked
a bit white at this, but he smiled
and bore up well, now and again
nervously feeding a white pill
into his iqouth.
Thirdly, our gun had every
stoppage known to mankind,
and then more. Our trace-
ajpmunition was faulty, our gun
had seen better days, and, for the
most part, nobody but myself
could get a peep out of it, I
spent most of the trip climbing
into and out of the turret, a feat
which, in an Anson, should never
be done more than twice on an
empty stomach.
The exercise required the tow-
ing battle-aircraft to fly over the
sea parallel with the coast, while
our attacking Anson flew in
pursuit three-hundred yards in-
shore on a track itself parallel
with that of the battle, overtak-
ing and passing the drogue, then
turning away until the drogue
had gone by before coming in
again for a further pursuit.
Naturally, the gunner could only
fire during the overtaking
process, when the planes were
on parallel tracks ; and, time and
again, we flew in, overtook and
disengaged without firing a shot.
Then from my stand near the
turret-door, in the watery mess
which behaved like bilge-water
in the scuppers of a boat, I
tugged the gunner’s trousers,
beckoned him down, stepped
back to let him out, climbed to
the turret-seat, cleared the stop-
page, perhaps fired a few rounds
as a test, climbed back and
allowed the gunner to resume his
seat, only to have him fire a few
rounds at the next engagement
and then struggle with further
stoppages.
Neville, who fired last, had the
worst luck of the three. He had
only to look at the gun and it
struck for better conditions, and,
bulky object though he was, he
was in and out of that turret-
door so many times, catching his
clothes and parachute-harness
(which he insisted on wearing)
on everything, becoming wedged
for minutes on end in the most
incongruous attitudes, that
finally his antics ceased to be
amusing and settled down as just
part of our normal existence.
Suddenly he became violently
sick. He vomited in the turret,
out of the turret, half-way in
and half-way out, until he was
no more than a nauseating mass.
At last his spirit broke, or per-
haps reasserted itself, for he
climbed out of the turret, stood
erect, threw off his harness and
yelled at me:
“You can have your bloody
gun, your bloody planes, your
whole bloody Air Force!”—and
no amount of persuasion could
induce him to do anything but
sit down stolidly and look a
picture of utter rebellious misery.
I coi>ld see that his morale was
broken indeed.
T CLIMBED into the turret to
A fire his remaining two-
hundred rounds to see if I could
hit the drogue and improve his
score. We were hovering off
target, waiting for the drogue
and our sister Anson, who was
firing to disengage, to pass, and I
could see that we had almost
reached the southern end of the
range, where the Battle would
wave her wings as a signal that
she was turning, turn on to a
reciprocal course, and cruise
along as before while the
Ansons played with her.
I had plenty of time to get set
for our first run'after the turn,
so I decided to walk forward to
Clifford and ask him if he would
run in closer to the drogue, so
that I could almost poke the
gun into the drogue’s ribs and
riddle it, in order to cheer up
our friend, the big, heart-broken
gunner. At three-hundred yards
a drogue looks a mighty big
target, and, after you make all
your allowances for deflection
and relative speed and the rest,
and watch all your trace flying
clean through the drogue, you
expect the counters at the drogue
dropping site to find hundreds
help, with the temperature in
the vicinity of 100 degrees.
That impressed on me how
necessary it was for all the
cottages along the two borders
to be connected by telephone.
Our predecessors in office had
thought of erecting a line along
the Queensland fence only, and
had obtained an estimate of the
cost for the 217 miles. As the
amount of £lO,OOO was con-
sidered too costly the idea was
not gone on with.
I discussed the matter with the
two overseers, and the upshot
was that, whereas 217 miles was
to cost £lO,OOO, I was able, with
the enthusiastic co-operation of
the two overseers and the men
employed on both fences, to have
the 357 miles erected for under
£3000!
The line is working admirably,
and is recognised as the longest
independent telephone-line in the
world (it is “independent” in
that it is not connected with the
public telephone system con-
trolled by the Federal Govern-
ment throughout Australia).
Since its erection many lives
have been saved, and this is not
confined to those people
employed on the fences. Further-
more, many persons have
received prompt medical atten-
tion, whereas before the advent
of the line they would have been
days, or perhaps weeks, before
they could have got such aid.'
Also, this telephone has been
the means of enabling overseers
and boundary-riders to contact
each other immediately in the
event of assistance being
required to do some important
and necessary work on the fence
to prevent dingoes getting
through. Previously any
boundary-rider concerned would
perhaps have had to travel 20 to
30 miles by slow transport to
get assistance, when he should
have been standing-by where
he required the help.
Previously, too, any com-
munication from Sydney to the
overseer on the South Australian
fence would take at least 14 days
before it could reach him and
his reply get back to Sydney.
Now a telegram can be sent in
the morning to Hungerford, at
the eastern end of the Queens-
land fence, and the boundary-
rider stationed there telephones
it round the fence to Smithville
and the reply is in Sydney the
same afternoon.
My own first visit to these
fences was a trip to remember.
Starting from Sydney, I first had
a 22-hours’ train journey to
Broken Hill—7oo miles—and
then 100 miles by car before
reaching the fence. The two
overseers met me in Broken Hill,
and my secretary made the
fourth member of the party.
The first night was spent at
Quinyambie station, owned by
the late Sidney Kidman. This
holding then comprised 297,000
acres.
Early next morning we were
on our way, arriving at the head-
quarters of the South Australian
fence-overseer at Boulka about
10 o’clock. This was 200 miles
from Broken Hill, and consisted
of a two-roomed hut in which
no human being, let alone man
and wife, should have been asked
to live. The temperature was
115 degrees in the shade, with a
duststorm raging in all its
intensity.
Staying at Boulka until 3 p.m.,
we then decided to move on, and
it was now our troubles began
in earnest. With four stiff sand-
hills to negotiate in every mile
the radiators of our cars boiled
incessantly. To make matters
worse, one of our water-supply
drums leaked, and we were left
with just a small waterbagful.
Eventually we made for the un-
occupied homestead at Tilcha,
another Kidman property, in
South Australia. Reaching there
in the dark, we found a dam
full of water, and also found
that the homestead was gradually
being sanded-up. We played
our car-lights into the kitchen,
and so could see to boil the
billy and get ourselves a meal.
Next morning the temperature
had fallen to such a degree that
it was bitterly cold. We reached
the “corner,” where the three
States meet, at midday. At this
spot, which is near nowhere,
there is a surveyor’s peg, and
also a tin into which the few
persons who ever visit there drop
their visiting-cards or a piece of
paper with their names written
thereon.
From the “corner” we had to
travel over some very large and
difficult sandhills along the first
part of the Queensland fence.
We turned off for Tibooburra,
the most north-westerly town in
N. S. Wales, which we reached at
midnight, and after a night’s rest
were back at the Queensland
fence next morning, and
travelled along it to its most
easterly point. We reached
Bourke the following evening,
and then a train journey of 500
miles to Sydney.
In the course of my duties —
holding courts in various centres,
visiting the fences, etc.—l
travelled in nine years on that
job 139,519 miles!


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT CHENANA late of The
Valley Brisbane Queensland. TAKE
NOTICE that DAMARIS MABEL
BLANCHE CHENANA has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4008 of 1953 (Federal
Matrimonial Cause) on the ground of
desertion without cause continuously for
three years or upwards under Queensland
law If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney hy
27th September 1954 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from C.
JOLLIE SMITH & CO., Solicitors, of 185
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—o. A. H.
HARMES, Acting Registrar.
Missing Friend
ANNIE BRENNAN
WILL ALBERT JAMES HENRY BREN-
NAN, son of JAMES ALBERT BRENNAN
and ANNIE BRENNAN (formerly BALL),
who was bom at Collingwood in 191*3, or
any person knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
POWER! PRICE! PERFORMANCE!
The Australian-made
McCORMICK
INTERNATIONAL
FARMALL
E
today’s greatest tractor value!
awv nuns
DIESEL
TRACTOR...
Hitch a four furrow plough to this husky Farmall and break twenty
or more acres per day. This latest, greatest, most manoeuvrable
all-purpose Farmall Super AMD has more power, speed and
matched equipment than any other all-purpose tractor on the
market. Let your local I.H. dealer give you the price and full
information.
There's 26 inches clearance beneath the
rear axle housing and adjustable rear
wheel tread from 52 to 88 inches, or up
to 100 inches on special axle. Farmall
Super AMD is designed for three-point
linkage, two-way hydraulic remote-
control for trailing implements and lift-
all cylinders for front mounted equipment.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. OF AUST. PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.) DISTRICT SALES OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES.
GL464-36
INTERNATIONAL
BUILDER OF ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT
df
HARVESTER
FOR ESSENTIAL WORK
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Home-builder, Brisbane Waters
(N.S.W.), frame already erected, wants
to know where can obtain log-cabin,
cyprus-pine weatherboards —5831.
Woman writer, Sydney, requires
quiet self-contained flat or flatette,
convenient to city. References. —5832.
Words of poem containing the
lines:
On the banks of the Shannon when
Sheleagh was nigh.
No blithe Irish lad was happy as 1.
—5840.
To buy, copy of The Bulletin Reciter
and The Bulletin Book o-f Humorous
Verse and Recitations. —5834.
Gent, Sydney, wants small fur-
nished flat or flatette, near Sydney.
References. —5833.
Widow, Sydney, wants small fur-
nished flat or flatette, handy to city.—
5838.
Young man (24), Sydney, journalist,
experience on country Press, wants
position on provinicial newspaper. —
5837.
Does Anybody Know?
Origin of the N.S.W. place-name,
Come-by-chance?—5829.
Information Sought
(7) How many lighthouses have been
put up at Eddystone? (2) A brief
history of the Eddystone light ? (i)
Where exactly is Eddystone ?
(1) Four, though the first one never
actually functioned. (2) In 1696
Henry Winstanley, “pseudo-engineer,
mountebank and eccentric,” was given
a contract to draw the plans and
proceed with the construction of a
lighthouse. He designed a tower
resembling a “fantastic pagoda”; but
while it was building Winstanley was
captured by a French privateer and
his handiwork destroyed. On his
release he tackled the job again, but
in 1703 there was a terrific storm,
and Winstanley and his tower were
both swept into oblivion. The second,
built by Rudyerd of wood on a stone
base, was completed in 1709, and gave
a good light till it was destroyed by
fire in 1755. The third, “a noble and
graceful column,” the model for other
lighthouses, was designed by John
Smeaton, and completed on August
24, 1759. It was built of quick-
setting cement from the blue lias cliffs
at Watchet (Somerset). The fourth
(and still-standing) lighthouse was
designed by Sir James Douglass,
engineer-in-chief to the Trinity Cor-
poration. Work was begun on it on
July 17, 1878, and it was completed on
June 1, 1881. The light was shown
for the first time on May 18, 1882.
(3) It is nine miles from the Cornish
coast, and 14 miles south-south-west
of Plymouth. It marks a group of
rocks which lie in the fairway from
the Start to the Lizard, and which are
visible only at ebb-tide.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning Henry
Halloran, an Australian poet who did
some writing for The Bulletin in its
very early years?
Henry Halloran was a son of
Laurence Halloran, a schoolmaster,
and was bora at Cape Town in 1811.
Educated at his father’s school, in
1827 he entered the Survey Office as a
clerk. He rose to a high post in the
public service, and resigned in 1878.
Outside his work his main interests
were military (in 1854-71 he was
lieutenant in the volunteer mounted
forces) and literary. His verse gained
the praise of D. H. Deniehy, but is
purely imitative and mildly pleasing;
his best service to literature was
probably his encouragement of Henry
Kendall, for whom in 1863 he obtained
a clerkship in the Survey Office. The
verse, scattered through newspapers,
magazines and pamphlets, was col-
lected in 1887 under the title Poems,
Odes, Songs. Halloran died at Ash-
field (N.S.W.) on May 19, 1893.
* * * *
Details of the career of a bush-
ranger named Jackey lackey?
William Westwood (Jackey Jackey)
was transported in 1837 at the age
of 16 and took to the bush in the
Goulburn (N.S.W.) district in 1840.
For some time he robbed mail-coaches
on the Bungendore-road; growing
more daring, he frequented the main
southern road, and even visited
Sydney. In 1841 he was captured
and sentenced to penal servitude for
life, and after an attempt to escape
from Cockatoo Island (Sydney) was
sent to Port Arthur (Tas.). He
escaped, but was caught in Hobart
and sent to Norfolk Island. There in
July, 1846, he headed a riot, killed
four policemen and was hanged on
October 13 when only 26.
♦ * * *
Some details of the life of Eliza
Winstanley ?
She was born in Sydney in 1818,
went on the stage at 16 and quickly
became Sydney’s leading actress.
She married Henry O’Flaherty, a
musician, in 1841, and in 1845 left
for Europe. She was successful m
England and, after a trip to America
in 1848, was a star in Charles Kean’s
company. In 1865 she abandoned the
stage for literature, after having writ-
ten her first novel, Twenty Straws
(published in 1864). This has an
Australian background as have others
among her books. She wrote a num-
ber of serials for “Bow Bells,” a
journal she edited for some years. She
died in Sydney in 1882, a few years
after her return from abroad.
Brief Answers
J.C.N.: The Penguin Book of
Modern American Verse edited by
Geoffrey Moore, obtainable from any
leading bookseller A.R.D.; Con-
cise Usage and Abusage by Eric
Partridge, published by Hamish
Hamilton, London R.M.A.: The
study of Christopher Marlowe that
you require is The Overreacher by
Harry Levin, published by Faber and
Faber, London... .W.M- '• T. A. G.
Hungerford has written two novels,
The Ridge and the River and Rivers-
lake....F.D.W.: Write C. B. Berc-
kelman, Hon. Secretary, Book Col-
lectors’ Society of Australia, Box
905, G.P.0., Sydney... .H.M.P.: For
• * .
particulars of the course in Australian
Literature being conducted by the De-
partment of English, Canberra Uni-
versity College,, write Mr. T. Inglis
Moore, University College, Canberra,
R.M.: Copies of the Pastoral In-
dustry Award, setting out wages and
conditions of employment in the pas-
toral industry, are available from the
n.S.W. Registry of the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court, 119 Phillip-
street, Sydney, at a cost of os. od.
each... ..J.McL.: Write Industrial
Registrar’s Office, Dept, of Labor
and industry, 53 Martin-place, Syd-
ney....H.S.: The three poems by
Denton to which you refer
appeared in The Bulletin on the
following dates: “The Deep Wells,’
Feb 3, 1954; “Garden of Darkness,’
Jan. 27, 1954; and “Loneliness,”
Jan. 20, 1954... .8.P.: Firmin Me-
Kinnon’s death was recorded in The
Bulletin in a paragraph published
J; U tissue of March 25, 1953....
. Dr. E. Morris Miller,
Jl Fitzrov-ulace Hobart... .P.O’R.:
bne Clover burr was two
. and the billabongs were
j, j p , j s tbe o p en i ng line of C. H.
Souter’s poem “Irish Lords’’....
and ]yf ernor i a i Fund, 46 Wallace-
Newto wn, Toowoomba (Q.).
ah • til Onlv for age benefits,
nn ; for familv sunerannuation or
miners > benefits’ (2) Under the re-
. al arrangeme n{ between the two
countries residence in Australia is
residence in New Zealand provided
m IN country for
twentv vearfor more. . JA.O’K.:
“The Man from Ironbark” was writ-
ten by A B (“Banjo”) Paterson, and
aonears in The Collected Verse of
Mo^AnZta/vSfe puSed by Angu
and Robertson, Sydney... .L.S.. I
1S not our practice to furnish the
private address of a contributor with-
out his or her permission. A letter
addressed to the contributor care of
U s will be forwarded... .A.8.W.:
“Bellerive” is the nom-de-plume of
j oe Tishler. He lives in Melbourne
and was 83 on March 18 last....
L.S.: Write Mr. J. K. Moir, Box
1663, G.P.0., Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne... .M. A. J.: J. F. Archibald
died on September 11, 1919
J.C.C.; Thumbs Up by Jack Lusby
was published by Frank Johnson, 350
r „. ctrppf Svdnev. in 1941. It has
George ree , y y j rs
been out of print r seve y
E.K.. Suggestthat o«P
he Un,ted States i "° a^et . streetj
vice Library, A b
Sydney•.• •• w.N. • Sydney,
Anonymous has an oce
fuead teienhone-number is
reagh-street, reiepn
uw//«.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
D.G.: We fancy that the present
Poet Laureate said much the same
thing half a century ag0....D.L.:
“Reflections on a Visit to Bobbin
Head in My Father-in-law’s Holden on
Mothers’ Day, 1954” is definitely not
Bulletin material... .8.E.; Five
lines from “Salute to Sydney” with
apologies to our Melbourne readers:
A city of cheers, a city of fame;
A city of beers, a city of game;
A city of leisure, a city so green ;
A city of pleasure, a city serene.
Sydney ! Queen city of Australia !
B.D.: Bill is on the outer
G.R.S.: No nearer to publication
standard.... J.O’C.: Here goes:
She had a good squint at me shoes,
And then at me crumpled suit,
Gazed at me dial for signs of the booze
Then said: You low-down, rotten coot.
Your children haven’t eaten all day.
All because you’ve guzzled up your pay.
P.A.C.: There are a lot of
wrinkles to be ironed out there.. * •
N.H.: You will have to do a lot better
than that... ;N.M.: “Never Again”
has a dinkum ring about it
I met him in the lock-up cell.
Like him, I wasn’t feeling very well.
We shared our fags, cursed the cops.
And decided to give up the hops.
M.A.: Afraid Rosa is not
destined to be a Bulletin heroine.
T.A.W.: Sorry, but they won’t
be crowing in our columns... .E.S.:
Interesting enough. The trouble il
that it has been done over and over
again R.T.: Put it aside and tackle
it again later... .H.U.P.: “The Black
Lily” didn’t take root at 252 George-
street J.M.C.: Send it to one of
the dailies that go in for that sort of
thing J. 0.: Just f.a.q. small boy
and puppy story K.M.: Not even
loose change for that story of petty
trickery J.F.: Grieved to note that
poor old Mum is still not getting
what she iwants... .E.A.: Not inter-
ested in such tales of the supernatural.
K.McA.: It would take a Brian
James to do full justice to that situa-
tion H.H.L.: The sanitary-con-
tractor is on his way home R.D. :
Suggest that you send him to a dogs’
home A.L.: Several thousand
miles off our beat H.W.: Cut it
down to paragraph-length R.T:
“Hocking stepped forward into
forgetfulness.” Too right, he did—
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
, tihbtt Al , .„, in
into the basket J.R. .M nght i
f n s n q^L way ’ p e^ e P t <^ t e wh®
too quiet. ...P.R.. Ihe Man Who
Met Himself’’met himself leaving our
j‘ ’ : . . Turned a cod
sh°ti ,de y to the girl from Vmus. ...
H.D.C.. Npt bad for a first effort,
try US again when you are more
experienced E.W.: Poverty
Street” would have been better done
by Kyhe Tennant or Ruth Park,
whom you might read with profit....
S.C.: Didnt fancy those comic cop-
Tb Paljon, ***£ £
thousand other “Shearer’s Night in
Tnwn” Irie! R M Not mmirn-
S™ “ wteX BM• It
ri „„ L; uuer i rV ’ Firi’will
Vi?®, SJL* fir-
a“9“er uoreen. ~ .r.j.n..
k;cL rt . thni
dosshnfiS Viar’s an unimaginative
e n p . *
ounen.... llk. . a comioridoi
SOm "°“ e p haS
now and then... .W.C.R.. Nothing
new in My v T f A rSt ™
School . . ._N^B.. Can t see you cash-
mg a Bulletin cheque yet awhile.


V
Delightful Ceilings
Available in a variety of modern
designs, Wunderlich Ceilings are fire-
safe and afford freedom from stain-
ing, flaking and cracking. Use them
in your new home or to cover right
over stained and faulty ceilings in
your present home.
Call at Baptist Street, Redfern,
Showrooms, 'phone MX2411 or write
Wunderlich Limited for designs and
prices.
'fin r/ef/ir/i
ETAI CEILINGS
BEAUTi fill - PERMANENT • MODERN
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows,
Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illustrated is the
“FARMERS’ BOY” DUSTER AND
FERTILISER SPREADER
Write to your nearest State
Distributor for free •particulars:
N.8.W.: Grazcos Co-operative
Ltd., 46 Young St, Sydney.
BW 4261. Victoria: Grazcos Co-
operative Ltd., 90 William St,
Melbourne. MU 8551. Q’land:
Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd., 443
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
FA 2631. Tasmania: Cameron
& Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St., Launceston. Laun. 2645.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St, Sydney.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
W TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
BACKGROUND TO BEEF
nrHE meat trade in Britain will
-*■ be in private hands again
very soon. The implications of
this, not only for Australia, but
for other countries, such as
Argentina, have been commented
on at some length and with some
subtleties by experts in various
parts of the world, and, from
time to time, the more pertinent
of the comments have been noted
on this page. At the present stage
it is interesting to look at the
background of the beef industry
in Australia.
The bulk of production is in
the North. Cattle were introduced
into Queensland in 1829, the first
breed being Shorthorns. It was
some time before Herefords and,
later, Aberdeen Angus cattle
were introduced. There have
been remarkable fluctuations in
the cattle-population of the
State: a big rise from 1860 to
1894 (when it was 7,013,000); a
drop of 4,500,000-head from 1895
to 1903 ; an increase of 3,000,000-
head from 1904 to 1914 ; a loss
of 700,000 in the 1914 drought;
a rise of 2,270,000 by 1921.
Early increases were due to a
number of factors: new land,
with unspoiled native grasses,
good seasons, little disease. The
cattle-tick hadn’t arrived in
Queensland. Turnoff was small,
demand being mainly for heavy
animals for boiling-down. In the
middle and late ’nineties the tick
caused big losses, and tick and
drought have been the major
factors in losses since. The
drought of 1900-1902 caused vast
losses, and in the following year
the cattle-population of Queens-
land was only 33 per cent, of the
peak population in 1894. This
peak was regained in 1921,
largely due to the high prices
brought about by World War I,
although there had been a serious j
drought in 1915-16. The slump
in cattle in 1921 caused a depres-
sion in the industry, and it had
not recovered when it was hit
again by the general depression
in the ’thirties. In 1922 beef was :
sold at 9s, per 1001 b.
This background, combined
with overstocking, silting-up of
waterholes, and other aspects of
bad management in individual
cases, has had its effect on the
industry. There has been a great
improvement, and conditions
now have no parallel with con-
ditions in earlier days of low
prices and little veterinary know-
ledge. But the early, and crush-
ing, setbacks prevented a great
deal of long-range capital
development.
Of recent years, general legisla-
tion has had its effect on cattle-
production in Queensland, as in
every State in the Common-
wealth. The social justice, or
injustice, of price-fixing is beside
the point. Its effect on the
industry has been bad, since there
is no encouragement to produce
quality meat. But the production
of quality meat is becoming more
and more important on the world
markets.
Cattle do not convert animal-
food into human-food as
efficiently as many animals do
(the classical instance is the pig);
therefore feeding them is, in
terms of food-values, expensive.
But beef on the domestic market
is, relatively, cheap. Hence,
cattle must be fed as cheaply as
is practical, and the cheapest
food is grass.
But in Queensland there are
seasonal fluctuations in the food-
value of pasture, and this has its
effect on the type of beast on the
market. In the major beef-areas
of the Fitzroy and Dawson, for
instance, cattle normally increase
in weight during the eight
months from November to June,
and lose weight from July to
October. In the tropical zone
the period in which increases
may be expected decreases as one
goes north. In South Queensland,
in favorable years, there may be
only a few weeks when cattle
lose weight.
A beast on average pasture
might be expected to gain at the
rate of per day, or to reach
the desired weight of 11001 b. in
two to two-and-a-half years, but
the beast that gains at for
eight months, and loses at the
rate of 11b. per day for four
months, will gain only 2401 b. per
year, and will take four years to
reach slaughter-point. And then
he won’t be the blocky short-
boned type various U.K.
authorities are always advising
cattlemen to breed for the U.K.
market.
Demand has had a great
influence, of course, and always
will. In the 1860’s boiling-down
At the Sydney Show Large Blacks were seen again for the first
time for years. Above is a good sort of English boar.
works were established in many
parts of Queensland, mainly in
the cattle-country, and movement
of mobs was local. But in the
1880’s and 1890’s freezing-works
were built on the coast, export
of frozen-beef and canned-meat
increased, and the pattern was
set for the migration of big mobs
from north and west to east and
south for slaughter.
This has continued. But,
incidentally, this pattern of
movement has brought a spread
of disease: cattle-tick, tick-fever,
ephemeral-fever and buffalo-fly
being brought to the east coast.
Cattle-tick has spread south, into
N.S.W. Pleuro-pneumonia went
from south to north originally
(1860-64), when the North was
stocking, and has come south
into the more closely-settled areas
many times since—the latest
occasion (according to N.S.W.
Minister for Agriculture
Graham) in 1954.
Breeding and fattening aside,
it is obvious that soft, young
cattle cannot walk, or even travel
by rail, long distances and retain
their condition for killing. But
many cattle in central and
northern Queensland are on poor
feed for six months of the year,
growth is slow, and losses of
calves and breeders high. Cattle
are often six years old when
marketed.
The answer seems to be to get
them away at an earlier age—
they could be fattened in the
safer districts. Stock-routes and
transport are difficulties, but,
even so, there will probably be
a development in this direction.
In southern Queensland there is
some prejudice against buying
stores from the north, and this
may hinder any large-scale trade
in young stores for a time. And
this is another reason why young
cattle are retained on the
breeding-properties.
In the Northern Territory the
same general problems of
distance from markets, stock-
routes, mortality, etc., arise. But,
according to A. L. Rose, chief
veterinary officer for the
Territory (“Australian Veterinary
Journal,” May, 1952), it is a good
deal more stable in its rainfall
than is generally supposed:
“Although the Northern
Territory comprises about
500,000 sq. miles, nevertheless it
is safer and surer in regard to
rainfall than any large or small
district throughout the length and
breadth of this continent.”
Huge losses prior to the early
1920’5, in Rose’s opinion, were
caused by (1) stocking of country
with some natural water, but not
enough for a dry spell; (2)
overstocking through natural
increase and lack of permanent
stock-routes, which meant that if
waterholes had dried-up on a
route, owners had to hold cattle
for another year; and, if that
year was a bad one, losses were
great.
Difficulties still exist, and
nothing short of railway-
communication seems likely to
solve the transport difficulty.
Bores have been established
steadily, since 1925, and parti-
cularly since War 11. Recent
Commonwealth Government
moves in regard to stock-routes,
investigations into water-
conditions in the Territory and
certain other encouragement
indicate that the future of the
Territory is being fairly carefully
considered.
So far as the major cattle-
areas are concerned, the diffi-
culties are great. It is not true,
as certain articles in the Press at
times imply, that a wave of some
Ministerial wand will convert our
“undeveloped North” into a vast
storehouse of cattle. In fact,
historically, overstocking has
been the great trouble. On the
other hand, much has been done,
particularly in the control of tick,
and the introduction of tick-
resistant breeds of cattle.
Concerning beef-production in
the safe areas, close to markets,
Franklin and others have done
important research on feeding.
The practical application of some
of this, however, remains tied to
costs. Even so, there will prob-
ably be a stimulus in cattle-
breeding in the south, pasture-
improvement and improved
techniques of management
gradually influencing not only
quality but the quantity of cattle
raised. Geddes, of Sydney Uni-
versity, has the interesting theory
that under a system of more
efficient utilisation of water in
medium-to-low-rainfall areas, the
balance of beef-production will
shift from north to south. That,
too, is possible.
Muscovy Ducklings
“Quorn”: Starting with a few
Muscovy ducklings, and anxious
to know something about their
laying-habits, I asked everyone
I knew who had kept the birds,
but could get no accurate infor-
mation. Looked-up articles m
various books, encyclopaedias,
etc.; still failed to find what £
wanted, so wrote to the S.A.
Department of Agriculture, and
received a letter almost by return-
-post. For the benefit of others
who may be interested I quote
from it:
Birds hatched about the middle of
November would be likely to com-
mence laying about May, and the
likely sequence of laying for the first
season is normally about 65 to 70 eggs
in four clutches of around 19 eggs per
clutch.
The first clutch should not be used
for breeding, as it is desirable that
the duck be about nine-months before
breeding from it; also the eggs are
small and fertility may be doubtful in
this first lot.
After resting for about 10 days to a
fortnight the duck should recommence
laying, and the second clutch would
be about 18 eggs. After a rest of
another month a furthter clutch could
be expected, and then this is repeated
again.
It is usually possible to obtain 40-50
ducklings from a first-season duck
during 12 months. In the second
season three clutches comprising
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6,
Send name and address with
postal note.


LYSAGHT SHEEP
SEIF FEEDER
T 1
r
3C,
-TV
,u
... . ■
-V
If
■■A
If »
{S »
&
seas
n
W<. »*. .«#»' ' --V
* vA- , -. J*
V** <<» sT ' ,
I J
P -
i.v ■' - •’>*-
□
cr
:■-•
: •>
c^J
Sliding Hinged Roof for ease in
filling.
50 BUSHELS CAPACITY.
Rigid construction with Heavy
Gauge Sheets.
Opening adjustable for various
grades of feed.
Swinging Trough prevents blockage.
Sloping Sides prevent build-up of
feed in Troughs.
Sturdy Skid Baseband Lugs for
Towing.
• Overall Trough length, 16ft. (Bft. each side).
PRICE: (Assembled or Prefabricated) £42 (At Works)
Write for further Information and agents names to
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PYY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
or JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD., w all capital cities
around 35-40 ducklings, could be ex-
pected, and, in the third season, about
30-35 ducklings in three clutches.
From the above it would appear ad-
visable to remove the first 15-20 eggs
laid, and then, when the duck recom-
mences laying, it could be allowed to
sit on the second clutch. This would
enable the production of a number of
ducklings before Christmas, and some
may be expected for the Easter market
from the last two clutches of the year.
Muscovy eggs, by the way,
have a hatching-period of 35
days. Other ducks hatch their
eggs in 28 days.
Calculating age for marketing
is important. Well-grown
Muscovy ducklings are ready to
market at 13-16 weeks. When the
laying-habits are understood it is
simple to plan for a special
market. Miss it, and the price
drops shillings per pound, in
South Australia, anyway; and
the cost of feeding them properly
isn’t light.
Merino Wethers
“Pat O’Day”: Strong tendency
lately to buy young Merino
wethers (one-year to two-and-a-
half-years), preferably full-
wooled. Graziers, even more
than dealers, are more-or-less
gambling on this class of sheep.
A Monaro (N.S.W.) man
denies the gamble; says it’s safe
if a few rules are kept in mind.
They’re simple. Uniformity
(including one mark), large
frames, medium to fine wool
(about 645. to 705.) of decent
length, no footrot, fluke or scour
(symptoms aren’t hard to pick),
and age: generally, it’s unsound
to buy any Merino over three-
years.
A Riverina grazier only dis-
poses of aged sheep and other
culls, concentrates on getting
“every ounce” of wool from
when they are lambs until they
are four-year-olds, and has been
getting away with twice-yearly
shearing. March-shearing of
ewes before May-lambing,
general shearing in November,
including the ewes, wethers (a
nice line of big-framed Merinos)
being the main bale-fillers.
Planting Trees
“Brock”: When thinking of
windbreaks, or shade- and
shelter-trees in the paddock,
think first of those natives with
a reputation for hardiness.
Australian trees not only stand
long dry-spells and drought
better than most importations;
on the whole they grow more
quickly and, wattles excepted,
live to a fair age (some decora-
tive strangers don’t).
Best to get trees that grow
well in your own district, of
course; if, for a reason, you
look farther afield, study rain-
fall and soil in the tree’s type of
country carefully before making
a decision. That made, and if
you intend to plant annually,
it will pay to keep a few seed-
boxes, or to start a small
nursery. In America it has been
found that where seed is
collected from vigorous trees in
the district, seedlings are almost
100 per cent, acclimatised.
Only the hard-shelled seeds
need pre-planting treatment by
soaking in hot water. This
shortens the germination-period.
When they soften or swell,
seeds should be sown as soon
as possible. In districts where
frosts are heavy, seeds shouldn’t
be planted until spring. Seed-
box, or nursery-bed, needs a
sunny position protected from
wind. Good drainage is
essential.
If the soil is a' sandy loam,
with a higher proportion of
loam than of sand, moisture
is retained longer, germination-
percentages are higher, and root-
development is more sturdy.
Moisten the soil thoroughly
before sowing, sprinkle the seed
over it evenly, and cover with
a layer of dry soil. Scrapings
of surface-soil from beneath the
native wilga, boonery, kurra-
jong, myall, wattles, etc., are good
for this purpose. When the soil
is continuously soaked, seed rots ;
if allowed to dry-out, germina-
tion is poor and developing root-
systems die-off. Germination of
seed of different trees varies from
a few days to over 12 months ;
most eucalypts germinate in
from seven to 14 days.
Seedlings should be planted
in jam-tins, or another bed,
when the second or third set
of leaves appears. Pierce
bottoms of tins and cover holes
with rubble for good drainage.
Seedlings should be spaced 7in.
apart in the rows, and lOin. to
12in. (according to size) should
be left between rows. When
the bed is inclined to dry-out,
a thin layer of decaying leaves
or straw over the bed helps
to preserve moisture. All this,
of course, is still the nursery-
stage of the project.
In preparing land for a wind-
break, plough to a depth of
about 6in. before winter. Before
planting, plough again (to a depth
of 18in. this time), bring the
soil to a fine tilth and level-
off. Dig holes 2ft. square and
18in. deep for individual trees.
A couple of inches of rotted
manure or leaves in the bottom
of the hole helps give the tree
a good start. Holes should be
square; roots have difficulty
in working their way out of a
round hole.
When the soil is hard, both
the windbreak-area and the
holes should be prepared months
ahead —gives sun, wind, frost
and rain a chance to work on the
soil and make it more friable.
Young trees shouldn’t be planted
on the permanent site until they
are from Ift. to 2ft. high. When
lifted from the bed, a ball of
soil should be left clinging to the
roots; when being transplanted
from a tin, the bottom of the
tin should be cut out with a tin-
opener, and the baby tree drawn
through this opening to avoid
disturbing the roots.
Planting in the permanent posi-
tion, make sure there is a depres-
sion around the tree, so that it
can take advantage of any
moisture that’s about. Give a
good watering, and continue the
treatment for a few weeks, until
the tree is quite established.
Tying the young tree to a stake
helps, particularly in windy
places. And, of course, put a
tree-guard or netted fence around
it, as protection against stock
and rabbits.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
The predicted dry spell is now with us, and this should
operate over all but the southern belt of the Continent (with
special effect in each locality) and along the coast of New
South Wales. July and August may have some relief-rains
at times, and late in September there may be quite a good
fall, fairly general rain continuing into October. There are,
of course, all sorts of local variations which cannot be dealt
with in a general statement; as they affect only narrow strips
of country, they are not of general interest, but can be given
to people inquiring from any special locality. The sun is
still devoid of spots, but the change to the new epoch must
be fairly close now. The recent character of cyclical
importance was the early cold snap.
Establishing Clover
“Beenaround”: While sod-
seeding machinery has now be-
come available in Australia for
establishing clover in permanent,
coastal pastures, with little or no
loss of pasture, this job can also
be done effectively by natural
means.
Every coastal dairyfarmer
must have observed at some time
how patches of clover spring-up
on a well-dunged part of the
paddock.
This establishment can be
intensified with little trouble*
either by growing a small area of
clover or temporarily fencing-off
a corner of the pasture where
clover is abundant, putting the
cattle on to graze the clover when
it is seeding, and then sending
them out to the pasture in which
the clover is to be established.
The dung-pats full of clover-
seed smother the grass tempor-
arily, and the clover is estab-
lished with the new pasture-
growth which eventually comes
through. Sprinkling the dung-
pats with super, will also help the
clover at the expense of the grass.
Cattle usually leave dung-pat
pasture-growth alone for some
time, because of its low sugar-
content, and the clover becomes
well established.
Feeding purchased clover-seed
or advanced clover-hay contain-
ing seed is also effective and may
be simpler still.
The use of electric-fencing to
seed a pasture-paddock with
clover per medium of the cow,
strip by strip, would give any
desired concentration of clover in
the paddock.
Crosscuts
“Chesborough”: Some details
of a new process in manufactur-
ing cheddar cheese, which cuts
time (from when starter is added
until curd is pressed) from about
seven to three hours, were given
at the last meeting of the
American Dairy Science Associa-
tion ; body, texture and flavor
as good as, or better than,
Cheddar produced by present
methods.
“Aphro”: At Ohio (U.S.A.)
vitamins added to mushroom-
beds are reported to have
increased yields 50 per cent.;
B - complex - group ingredients
(among others used) included
riboflavin, niacin, thiamine and
pantathenic-acid, a combination
of these four having greatest
effect. At 3s. 6d. a half-pound in
Sydney, a 50 per cent, increase in
the crop might be worth feeding
the fungus vitamins—or, again, it
might not be, depending on what
the growers get. But, anyway,
it’s an interesting development,
“C.A.A.”: Overseas competi-
tion in the canvas-goods market,
and big stocks of fibre and straw
on hand, have forced an Aus-
tralian reduction in acreage
from 20,000 to 8200 acres,
according to a statement by the
Flax Production Committee.
* * *
A United States Department
of Agriculture survey shows the
U.S. cattle r population at
94,677,000-odd head. Cattle
numbers have increased for the
past five years. But so, of
course, has the human popula-
tion.
Farm Hints
“Big Billy”: In pest-control,
prevention is important, so
breeding-places in the garden
should be destroyed. Allow a
reasonable period (three weeks
or more) between the last spray-
ing of vegetables and harvesting,
especially with compounds toxic
to humans. If it's necessary to
spray shortly before harvesting,
use nicotine sulphate, HETP or
TEPP, the'toxic effect of which
disappears a day or so after
application.
“Garden”: Hens need a little
more than the usual feed during
winter. Taking as a standard
the ration recommended by the
S.A. Department of Agriculture,
we increased the daily food by
one-fifth. Eggs from our pullets
average, in June, over 60 per
cent. State average for pullets
in June is 40 per cent. Local
demand for eggs (in a district
where hens are kept) is strong.
“Fellaheen”: Worth remem-
bering, if you’re the boss, that no
man will take the trouble to get
a tractor to its peak if he knows
someone else will be driving it
tomorrow. So don’t switch jobs
needlessly.
“Mid-west”: Leaf - curl of
stone-fruit trees is most preva-
lent when wet weather follows
the spring. The infection, if
not checked, can result in trees
losing all their leaves. Young
trees may never develop satis-
factorily. Spray the trees with
Bordeaux mixture when the
buds are swollen. If the weather
is cool and moist a second spray-
ing, when the buds are showing
color, is recommended.
“J.D.”: Answer these ques-
tions before you decide to
irrigate; Does your soil absorb
|in. or more water in an hour?
Will it hold over iin. of water
per foot, of soil? Does it drain
easily? Is salt-content low? If
the answer to all these is yes, go
ahead. If not, think twice.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Spare Parts
The end of the wet season found me
with a small supply of repairable equip-
ment salvaged from the annual .clean-up.
It included a semi-rotary pump with a
twisted valve-flap, three sets of multi-
grips with the bolts chewed off, and an
expansive-bit minus the large cutter.
I went to various hardware-shops to
buy replacements, but I still have the
junk on my hands. Valve-flaps for semi-
rotaries aren’t sold separately, although
they’re a mere half-ounce of cast-brass,
machined on the surface —outside value,
2s. 6d. The salesman said that they
weren’t obtainable and the only thing to
do was to buy a new pump at £3 7s. 6d.
Bolts for multigrips aren’t for sale,
either. They’d run out at about 6d. each,
but another 15s. has to be spent to replace
the whole tool. The excuse for the cutter-
blade for an expansive-bit is that the
tools are made in America, and “it’s a bit
hard to get spares.” A blade would cost
10s., but a new bit costs £2 7s. 6d.
All of which indicates that something
smells in the replacement game. It
shouldn’t be too hard to cast a few hun-
dred extra valve-flaps, or turn a few
hundred extra bolts, or send a few extra
blades with the bits. But that would
evidently prolong the life of the article
sold.—O. J. (Q.).
Grammar
“Recla” (B. 26/ 5/’54) would be doing
Australian children and their faulty
grammar greater service if he did not
indulge in loose colloquialisms, such as
“he’s wrong.... .some children don’t and
won’t conform, but there’s always a
sprinkling of pupils ”
This slipshod style of writing has given
rise to the flippant and derisive expression
“journalese,” sarcastic synonym of
Burmese, Cingalese, Japanese, Chinese.
Even C. R. Jury, ex-Professor of English
Language and Literature at the Univer-
sity of Adelaide, uses it in a weekly con-
tribution to this city’s “Sunday Adver-
tiser.”
That style of writing should be left
to the typewriter-pounding prodigies of
the synthetic Press. — Virgil (S.A.).
“Stamp News”
“Stamp News,” a new philatelic news-
paper, deserves acclaim on several
grounds. First, it is genuinely a news
paper; it prints informative and educa-
tional, matter of general, as well as phila-
telic, interest. Second, while only in its
third issue, it is maintaining its initial
standard, noteworthy because many such
ambitious projects peter-out after the
first one. Third, it is published in the
N. S. Wales country town of Dubbo.
Essentially, “Stamp News” caters for
what is known as the “thematic” stamp-
collector. It’s subject-matter is the story
behind the picture on the stamp. If stamp-
collecting in a mild form of insanity, the
thematic collector is the link between the
sane and insane. He has no ambition to
gather all the stamps of the world (or
even of one country); his purpose is to
illustrate some theme by the relevant
pictures that have appeared on stamps.
If his theme is music, he displays por-
traits of composers and players, of opera-
houses, of scenes from operas. Or it may
be aviation (there is a stamp depicting
Leonardo da Vinci’s idea flying-
machine) ; or flowers, or insects, or the
world’s famous bridges. The scope is
very wide.
This specimen of collector digs out
from reference-books the life-history of
the composer, or the name o£ the engineer
who built the bridge, and so forth. His
album becomes a modest encyclopaedia
and much less boring than pages and
pages of stamps depicting, say, some past
monarch.
All countries are now alive to the value
of collector-sales of stamps; to some of
the smaller it is a vital part of the budget.
Pictorial and commemorative stamps, re-
dundant for postal usage, have been flow-
ing from the presses for years. There is
no limit to what can be illustrated on a
postage-stamp —anything from a country’s
wogs to its historical assassinations. The
“thematic” collector welcomes his choice
of them all.— Hist (N.S.W.).
No Begins
If you go to the races in Victoria and
have a bet on the tote the Government
has no compunction whatever in taking
its cut of your ss. and passing it on to
the hospitals. If you back a winner with
a bookmaker the Government has no
qualms about grabbing a share for the
Treasury per medium of the winning-
bets tax.
All of which suggests that, when it
comes to accepting money from gamb-
ling, the Government’s conscience is
easy. But just try to raise a few shillings
for your pet charity by getting people to
estimate the length of a piece of string
or the number of beans in a bottle and
the whole weight of the Government’s
legal machinery comes down on you.
The committee of a Victorian country
hospital lately wrote to . the Crown Law
Department asking whether such com-
petitions were permissible in aid of hos-
pital funds. The department replied that
guessing-competitions were regarded as
a matter qf chance and illegal if permis-
sion were not given by the Attorney-
General under the provisions of Section
88 Police Offences Act, 1928.
Safer to stick to the horses. They’re
in the clear. Game of skill. — Sub. (Vic.).
Bread
Sharp variation in temperatures has
a lot to do with poor quality of bread.
In bakehouses temperatures are taken
of all ingredients before doughmaking
begins. Then a figure is arrived at which
will ensure that the dough will be ready
in time for the bakers to start work on.
A change in temperature between the
finishing of the dough and the starting-
time of the bakers means that the dough
is ready either too early or too late, and
that the resulting bread is not up to
standard. — Doughman (Q.).
Japanese Trade
There are some unexpected angles
in the Jap-trade controversy, one
being the fact that many Jap goods,
including some shirts, pyjamas and
crockery, are now dearer than similar
products from elsewhere. Another is
the small part in imports played by those
Jap products with which we were most
familiar before the war, but which are
classified as “less essential.” This was
due to a deliberate policy of getting from
Japan primarily those things which Aus-
tralian industry needed most.
Imports of cultured pearls, china and
crockery, toys, beads, cigarette-lighters,
fishing - appliances, fountain-pens and
pencils and imitation jewellery were
valued at only £4851 in 1952-53 out of
total imports of £A4.7 million. Even in
the peak year of Jap imports, 1951-52,
when the total of £A43.6 million
approached the value of our exports to
Japan (£A48.5 million), the amount
OF ify
“But, Muriel, this is just for fun!”
under those headings was only £37,033.
In 1950-51 it was a paltry £BOO.
There doesn’t seem to be much cause
for alarm among those Australians who
are making these kinds of goods.—
“Stromlo” (N.S.W.).
Japanese readiness to accept the strin-
gent conditions laid down for their 25
pearl-fishing vessels allowed to operate
in the Arafura Sea pending a decision by
the World Court on the Australian con-
tinental-shelf claim shows the wealth of
that region.
The Japs have to keep in sped-
fied areas, well away from Darwin,
stay more than 10 miles offshore except
in emergencies, and collect shell only of
the specified minimum size or larger,
They will have to furnish returns of their
take, and agree to inspection on the same
basis as Australian pearlers. All this, says
“No, I didn't win them, madam. I have a shop."
Commerce Minister McEwen, will safe-
guard Australia’s interests in the pearling
industry in the waters adjacent to our
coast.
It will be interesting to see how
their return at the end of the season com-
pares with that of the Australian-owned
fleets.—M.C. (N.S.W.).
Car-stealing
The recovery of 94 per cent, of stolen
cars in N. S. Wales (B, 12/5/’54) is
pretty good and may explain why the
thieves are charged with the minor
crime of “illegal use” and get off with a
fine. Convicted for theft, their penalty
would probably be much higher, pos-
sibly a jail-term.
Doubtless, many of these people have
every intention of returning the “bor-
rowed” vehicles, but what would happen
if someone went around pinching milk-
money, keeping proper tally in a book
and fully intending to return it when he
was subsequently in the chips? Would
he be charged with “illegal use”? Not
on your life —it would be common or
garden theft, with 14 days as a cure-all.
—Karrimba (Vic.).
South Australia Goes Ahead
Even before the discovery of uranium-
ore at Radium Hill (north-east S.A.) and
of pitchblende deposits (which ’contain
uranium) at Myponga, South Australia
was going ahead very nicely. Now, since
the uranium finds, the State is becoming
the centre of interest in the Common-
wealth.
The State’s achievements since the end
of World War II include the opening-up
and working of the Leigh Creek coal-
field, the establishment of Woomera
rocket-range, the big A.M.P. settlement-
scheme in the south-east, and expansion
on Kangaroo Island. Many new second-
ary industries have begun operations in
recent years—including some heavy in-
dustries—and other# are nearly at the
production-stage.
The State should be well-satisfied with
its recent farm-production, including
record grain-harvests in the last few
years. Mining, too, has been on the up-
and-up, with iron-ore production hitting
an all-time peak.
The State Government’s works-pro-
gramme has been marked by wise allot-
ment of priorities, with emphasis on
genuinely developmental works. Over
the past year the extension of the State’s
water-reticulation and electric-power
systems has received concentrated atten-
tion.
Much of the credit for all this must
go to Premier Tom Playford, now the
only non-Labor State Premier in office.
In his 15 years of office he’s done every-
thing he could to encourage industrial
enterprise and, when he has scented the
possibility of a new industry for the State,
he has always gone after it with his ears
back. And he is now determined to
establish Australia’s first atomic-power
plant in S.A.
No other State can boast of the same
economic stability and industrial pro-
gress.—Kros (S.A.).
Cutting Building Costs
Though the housing situation has im-
proved considerably, there’s still a big lag
in home-building, and new methods are
needed.
Several Australian experts have lately
been investigating building developments
in the U.S.A.; some of their findings
should receive practical application here.
Mervyn Jones, technical adviser to the
building-materials division of C.S.R.,
says that home-building in the U.S. is
done mostly by “what we would call
speculative builders, working to highly-
competitive standards of cost and
quality.” The Government contents it-
self with ensuring, through its agencies,
the provision of the necessary finance to
home-builders. The results are houses
—quickly, cheaply and in plenty.
Another angle to speedy construction
is the increasing use in the U.S. of light-
weight materials —a certain means of
cutting-down expenses. John O’Keeffe,
at present in the U.S. with the Australian
Building Industry productivity team, says
that lightweight concrete, with a perlite
product, has contributed to an outstand-
ing saving in materials. (Perlite, which
has good thermal and fireproofing pro-
perties, has only one-tenth the weight of
sand or gravel.)
By using these lightweight aggregates
in the construction of a bank in Dallas
(Texas), 1800 tons of steel were saved.
That meant an overall reduction in dead-
load of conventional materials of some
15,000 tons.
The chairman of the Victorian Hous-
ing Commission’s architects’ panel,
Harold Bartlett, pointed out as late as
April this year that building costs in Mel-
bourne could be cut 30 p.c. if builders
could be certain of getting materials and
labor when they’re wanted. He added
that in America the builder has no such
worries about materials or labor short-
ages—nor, therefore, has the prospective
home-owner. In consequence building is
that much cheaper in the U.S.
It certainly looks as if Australia could
profit from studying and adopting Ameri-
can methods of home-building. — Keima
(Q.).


Savings Bank Loans
As lately stated here, of a total of
£234 million held by the State Savings
Bank of Victoria on account of deposi-
tors, a mere £l4 million has been loaned
through its Credit Foncier Department
for housing and similar loans. The
balance of deposits are mainly invested
in Government and semi-Governrnent ,
loans.
That, no doubt, is one reason why the *
rate of interest paid to depositors is so
small. Another reason is the high cost
of running the bank. Salaries paid ate
much the same as those of trading-bank
officers, but there can be no comparison
of work involved.
Savings-bank hours are very short.
With them it is largely a matter of receiv-
ing and paying out small amounts—work
which, in the main, could be performed
by any intelligent youngster. Their
managers are not called on to use dis-
cretion in the matter of overdrafts—they
have none. Overseas exchange and all the
multiplicity of other work handled by
the trading banks are not touched. Even
with housing loans, savings-bank mana-
gers are not required to make the valua-
tions.
Surely the making of such a valuation
for a very conservative loan could be
entrusted to them. Trading-bank man-
agers do it, and a lot more involved
Valuing than that, and no charge is made
to the customer.
In a current newspaper there’s a sav-
ings-bank advertisement calling for one
valuer at £1250 a year and two cadet-
valuers at £1025 a year each. How many
other valuers are on the pay-roll?
It’s a pity that the Savings Bank does
not have shareholders and a board of
directors. —Depositor (Vic.).
Labor and the Means Test
The Menzies Government’s plan runs
to about the financial limit of possibility
or probability in the pensions field. But
Dr. Evatt and his followers abused
Menzies and Fadden for not failing lor
their own remarkable scheme. Labor’s
advertising declared that “Menzies lias
the audacity to say that Australia can’t
afford to give these people [pensioners]
a fair deal” and their £4 a week each ;
that he “tries to back up his lies with faked
figures.” Labor, it appeared, could “pro-
vide the money without increasing the
burden of taxation,”
In 1946 I. T. Lang, always full of in-
genious financial schemes, advocated the
abolition of the means-test in the Federal
Parliament, and Mr. Burke, member for
Perth and Mr. Chifley’s right-hand man,
attacked him:
I ask honorable members to consider
who would benefit from the abolition of
the means-test. It is obvious that not one
penny of the extra money which would
have to be raised would go to those v.T-O
have only the basic pension on which to
live. It would go to those who, in addition
to the pension, were in receipt of other
incomes... .Thus the honorable member
who claims to be the champion of the
underprivileged would’ deny those most
in need of it any of the extra money he
proposes to hand out... .He would give
all to those in receipt of fairly substantial
incomes.
And listen to Mr. Rosevear (“Hansard,”
November 26, 1946) speaking on the same
subject:
If the honorable member for Reid con-’
curs with the Opposition in the means by
which the Opposition proposes to finance
the abolition of the means-test, he is in
favor of an entirely new and additional
scheme of taxation in the guise of a com-
pulsory contribution to a national insur-
ance fund. If he does not, there is only
one way in which he can finance any scheme
which involves the abolition of the means-
test. Governments cannot get money out
of thin air. There is only one way Govern-
ments can get money, mid that is by taxing
it out of the people... .It would be inter-
esting to hear some of the advocates of the
abolition of the means-test tell us exactly
how they propose to abolish it without
inflicting further taxes on the people of
this country.
Mr. Rosevear Was Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and he left the chair
to make that speech.
This came from Mr. Daly, now Whip
of Dr. Evatt’s party (“Hansard,” July 31,
1946):
Let us examine what abolition of the
means-test would entail How would
the money be provided? We cannot print
banknotes for the purpose of meeting the
cost of social services The additional
estimated cost resulting from the aboli-
tion of the means-test on invalid and old-
age pensions would call for a total
contribution of 13s. per breadwinner and,
of course, that could not be paid by
unemployed persons, pensioners and per-
sons over the age of 65 years....and that
does not take into account the expansion
of social-service plans, including health
and various other schemes which Labor
has in view. :
It would have been interesting during
the election to hear any of these
purveyors of commonsense on the same
"Well! Aren’t I an old silly?”
platform with Dr. Evatt or Mr, Calwell.
-K. (Q-).
Melbourne Slums
According to Harold Bartlett, chairman
of the Victorian Housing Commission’s
panel of architects, Melbourne will never
get rid of its slums if it waits until whole
neighborhoods can be demolished and
rebuilt. The Bulletin said that years ago
when the Government’s slum-abolition
move was started. ,
Only a small proportion of the houses
are beyond help ; the rest are more solidly
built than the Commission’s latest houses,
and if left to themselves will last longer.
Most of them are better-looking and some
have been regarded as good enough to
figure in a book on Melbourne’s early
architecture.
Allthey lack is sanitation. That includes
air and light, which could be provided by
putting in windows, remodelling interiors
and knocking out walls. The beautiful
old terrace-houses are ideal subjects for
this kind of treatment— Bumpkin (Vic.).
Queensland’s Population
At the Federal Convention of 1897
statistics were quoted showing the pro-
bable future populations of the Austra-
lian colonies, estimated approximately
from the average rates of increase during
ten years from 1881 to 1891.
A comparison of this forecast with the
actual populations of the States today
shows how far we have fallen short of
the goal visualised by the protagonists
of Federation 57 years ago. The figures
presented to the 1897 convention indi-
cated that by 1941 N. S. Wales would
head the list with 8,000,000; Queensland
next with 7,500,000; then Victoria,
4,000,000; W.A., 1,500,000; S.A.,
600,000 ; and Tasmania, 400,000. It adds
up to about 22,000,000.
These days, Queensland, with the
greatest population- and production-
potential of all the States, has been
lagging behind in its population growth
since 1945-46, when it had the highest
rate of all the States. In the three finan-
cial years after 1945-46, Queensland
ranked fourth, fifth, and fourth respec-
tively ; in the following three years it was
last, and in 1952-53 it was fifth.
The reasons? Some of them are set
out in an analysis by F. D. Gillies in
“Economic News,” published by the
Queensland Bureau of Industry:
Since the war, Queensland has had
the lowest rate of net migration in Aus-
tralia.
Queensland’s expenditure per head
(from its own resources) is well above
similar figures of all other States except
N. S. Wales.
Queensland ranks fourth in the Com-
monwealth’s estimation of State needs
for financial assistance. In 1927-28 and
from 1930-31 to 1940-41 Commonwealth
expenditure in Queensland from revenue
averaged only about 50 per cent, of the
taxation collected from the State. The
Commonwealth still spends less on
Queensland than it collects from it.
For the six years 1947-53 Queensland
received only 13.93 per cent, of total
Federal capital allocations to all States.
If the Federal Government had allo-
cated migrants and expenditure on capi-
tal works and services on a current-
population basis, Queensland would have
received, from 1947-48 to 1952-53, a
total of 39,000 additional migrants and
£3,344,000 additional money.
If the distribution had been on a popu-
lation-potential basis Queensland would
have received up to 48 per cent, of the
total. In that case, additional migrants
would have numbered 221,000 and addi-
tional capital would have been £206
million.
Since capital expenditure is a vital
element in increasing population, it is
significant that there is not a single, large-
scale Commonwealth project under way
in Queensland, although many millions
of pounds are being spent in the southern
States.— Ci.em Lack (Q.).
English Exams
Abolition of the teaching of grammar
(B. 5/5/’54) is too drastic a step, but
“Wackford” is right in holding that too
much formal grammar is being taught. A
survey of grammar questions in Inter-
mediate Certificate papers over the last
ten years or so shows that the examiners
have much the same view.
In 1943 the following question was set:
Analyse the following passage, naming
the principal and subordinate clauses, and
showing their relation to each other.
Also
Parse the underlined [ital.] words:
He was greatly distressed when he lost
his compass, for in the dense forest he
could scarcely see the sky. As, however,
necessity is the mother of invention, he
selected a tall tree to the very summit of
which he climbed. If he had not done so
he would never have seen that curl of
smoke which told him, to his joy, that a
human habitation was near.
I wonder how many Arts graduates
could get full marks for that?
In 1948 there was still a large slab for
analysis, but the parsing had been changed
and showed the first signs of improve-
ments to come.
While mixing the pudding, I was annoyed
by an angry wasp.
Parse mixing. Why would it be incorrect
to say: “Mixing a pudding, a wasp buzzed
angrily”?
There were several similar questions
where the candidate had to show some
knowledge of the use of the correct forms.
In 1952 the questions were different
entirely from those set nihe years earlier.
Straight-out parsing and analysis had gone
and the following type of questions had
been set:
He chained the dog. He entered the house.
Combine these sentences in three different
ways, first using a phrase instead of one
of the sentences, then using an adverbial
clause, and finally using a co-ordinate
conjunction. . , .
Write a sentence beginning Trudging
slowly along the street, the old man
Let your sentence contain a phrase, an
adjectival clause, a principal clause and a
noun clause. The clauses may be in any
order you please.
“Recla” and Martin Haley (B. 26/5/’54)
would argue that to answer those ques-
tions a child still has to learn grammar-
terms and -rules. Quite so, but he is
now making some use of what he learns.
No longer is he learning grammar merely
to pull passages to bits; rather he is
building them up from what he knows.
He can see now not only why a word is
a certain part of speech but why it is
necessary to have that particular part of
speech in the sentence. Grammar at last
has some point for him. —Rann (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 283
Across
l_Xhey slow down the flying leaders
of the trumpet, trambone, flute,
horn, clarinet, and oboe depart-
ments. (9)
8— A camel is inclined to be dwell-
ing. (5) .
9 Rival for the rubber fiddlestnng
graduate before tea. (11)
11 —Henry I goes to the little sister
with foul breath. (9)
13 — Clamorous and inquisitive about
ego. (5)
14— Some Melbourne readers take it
with sugar. (5) , . ,
15— A Burrinjuck orchardist origin-
ally dispossessed. (4)
18— Non-professional work, by Mac-
auley. (3)
19 — Disappointments for batsmen
bowled by underarms. (5)
21 —The odds are against a serpent.
23 The Spanish moustache of St.
Erasmus (4)
24 — Bill passed between one hundred
and one plants. (5)
28 — Australian cape for a 17th-century
English dramatist turning to a
method. (5)
29 — Joker accompanies Her Majesty
Queen Elizabeth with it, the timer
being so creditable. (4, 5)
30 — A social bounder and a space
bounder with a redback Welsh
arranger of battle. (11)
32 Sat back with the parent apple.
33 The outer coating the successful
service by a famuy with Cancer.
(9)
Down
1— What can always be seen with the
pigheaded cask. (8)
2 I keep the insect away from the
timber aid to calculation. (7)
3 This war among spooks. (7)
4 Born. (3)
5 Gharles goes about in prisoners
impediments. (6)
6 Columbia has a morning on the
heath. (7)
7 Farewell failures by a keeper.
. (3-3)
10 —Search here and there to choose
actors for a box. (4, 5)
12—Direction let the editor be passed
down the throat. (9)
16 — Benedictine kingdom without its
king. (3)
17— Manuscript. (2)
Exist. (2)
20—It is very much out-of-date to,
know a song from opera flower.
(8)
22 —Noticed a dry-weather irritation
which may be undercutting a wet-
weather aid tb spinners. (7)
24 Animal to turn up in Arthur’s
place. (7)
25 — Auto runs over a Dr. Caractacus.
(7)
26 Barker consumed the office of an
influential Venetian act on the
entrance. (6) w
27 What kind of tiger would Mac-
beth rather see than Banquo s
ghost. (7)
31 —Island group off North Australia.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 282


>
C’ll
£
m
(I
%
B ATT ERIE
MADE IN HYPLATE AND STANDARD TYPES
with improved plates and separators designed to incorporate latest overseas developments
for cars, trucks, tractors, earthmovlng equipment, motor cycles, radio and home lighting by
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY COMPANY LIMITED. Birmingham Street, Alexandria. N.S.W.
DISTRIBUTED IN AUSTRALIA BY:—
New South Wales!
Century Storage Battery Co. Ltd., Birmingham
St., Alexandria.
Smith Sons & Rees Limited, 30-32 Wentworth
Ave., Sydney.
Bradley Bros. Ltd.. 55-39 Wentworth Avenue.
Sydney.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney.
Industrial Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd..
Parramatta Road, Lidcombe.
>
Lower Rlverina:
Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.. 515 Kiowa St.,
Albury.
Queensland:
P• H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty., 123
Charlotte St., Brisbane.
Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Limited, Bundaberg.
Advanx Tyre & Motor Service, 61 Sheridan St,,
Cairns,
Lawrence Mater Company, Bolaover St., Rock'
Hampton.
Corner & Co. Pty. Ltd., Ellena St., Mary-
borough.
Gympie Machinery fit Electrical Coy., Mary St.,
Gympie.
Jas. Croker & Sons, Mackay.
Victoria*
Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd., Macaulay
Rd., North Melbourne.
South Australia:
Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd. (Sole Conces-
slonairea), 15 Ackland St., Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd., 22 Stirling St, Perth.
Tasmania:
C. C. Boag, 158 Collins St., Hobart: T. & G.
Building, Launceston.
North Australia:
Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pty. Ltd., Darwin.
fd
