

THE HOUSE
è
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
Beginning: “FEATHER YOUR NEST”
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75-No. 3892
Wednesday, September 15, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
ADDRESS: “NO. 1, LONDON”—THE WELLINGTON MUSEUM
ONE of the most famous houses in Britain is Apsley House, which stands at
the beginning of Piccadilly by the main entrance to Hyde Park, and is
known as “Number One, London.” This dignified stone house was acquired
by the first Duke of Wellington, Victor of Waterloo, in 1817, two years after
the famous battle, and since that time it remained in the Wellington family
until 1947, when the present Duke presented it to the nation. In 1952 it was
opened to the public as the Wellington Museum, in which are displayed a
magnificent and historic collection of paintings and precious objects, officially
valued at half-a-million pounds. It is administered by the Victoria and
Albert Museum, of which it is a branch.
Apsley House was originally built (1777-8) to the design of Robert Adam,
but considerable additions, including the familiar portico, were made after it
had been purchased by the Duke, who lived there for a period of ten years;
he died on Sept. 14th, 1852. Before its opening as a museum the whole house
was expertly restored and its magnificent apartments now stand as rare
examples of 18th-century interior decoration. Their contents include valuable
pictures, plate, porcelain, batons, orders and decorations, l aniture and
personal relics.
In the Muniment Room the Duke’s orders and decorations glitter with
diamonds and rubies and there, too, can be seen the sword ano belt he wore
at Waterloo, a tricolour standard captured at the battle, and many elaborately
fashioned gifts presented to the victorious commander by the Allied Powers.
Personal relics include his dressing case, razors and scissors, pills and tooth
brushes; and slips of yellow parchment skin still bearing pencilled orders
written in action.
Standing at the foot of the graceful stairway that leads to the upper
floors is an 11-foot high statue of Napoleon, carved by Canova from a single
block of white marble. Before it was bought by the British Government in
1816 it had been stored in the Louvre. From the handsome Piccadilly Drawing
Room, on the first floor, which contains the beautiful Sevres porcelain presented
by Louis XVIII of France, visitors pass through the Portico Room to the
Waterloo Gallery. This great room, ninety feet in length, with windows
overlooking the park, has been described as the most splendid room in
London. It was the scene each year on June 18th of the Duke’s Waterloo
Banquets, attended by officers who had fought under him in the historic
battle. Stretching down the middle of the room is the highly polished
banqueting table on which stands the centre-piece of the gilt dinner service
presented in 1814 by the Prince Regent of Portugal. On the walls hang magnifi-
cent pictures by such masters as Velasquez, Rub'ens, Van Dyck and Goya.


NOIIOWOHd NIM
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-stuuy
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith ./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
I 100 Russell St., Melbourne; 140 Castlereagh St.,
I Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
, CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
I To STOTT’S; Please send me, free and without
• obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
I
I MY NAME
J ADDRESS
j (S»B. 1754) AGE
The Red Page
PSYCHIATRIC "SONNETS"
Dr. Merril Moore, the psychiatrist-
poet of Boston, who has written 100,000
“sonnets” since he was 18, reaches the
present reviewer in the roundabout way
of a little book published in New Zea-
land: From A Psychiatrist’s Notebook
(Pegasus) —he was two years in Auckland
and Wellington with the U.S. Army in
1942-40.
The 47 “sonnets” in this book are really
worth looking at; hardly any book of
verse except, say, Shakspeare’s plays,
would contain as much of the human
material of poetry as is to be found here
so tightly packed; for each piece, of
seldom longer than 14 lines, is a study
of a different person ; a compressed case-
history :
He suffered from creative mentality;
It was a dreadful thing that kept hint up
And made him struggle when he wished to
lie down
In pools of occasional serenity.
Mountains were not mountains to him, they
were more;
Mrs. Woodridge was more than a society
matron;
Languages hopped in, verbs conjugated
themselves,
Bicarbonate of Soda became Natron.
Doing excessive violence to simile
He never could leave well enough alone;
Whenever a ripple started in the pond
It never stopped but struck the other shore
In endless reverberation, mystery. . .
A widening curve of inconsistency.
Certainly this disease of whooping-
things-up, which is to be found in a great
deal of modern poetry turning a simple
statement into yards and yards of
associated ideas, does not afflict Dr.
Moore:
She was not good looking but she had a nice
Personality. Which she kept on ice.
On a Greyhound bus she met a young
Diesel engineer
Who had been discharged that day from
the U.S. Navy
After serving 39 months or so in the Pacific.
He was going to Chicago. He persuaded her
Somehow into a small second-rate hotel
Where they spent seven days of her vacation
Mostly in bed, getting up to go out and eat.
She said it was the best vacation she ever
had
One would like to go on quoting (suf-
fering, no doubt, from “creative mental-
ity”) ; but let us come to the point, which
is that Dr. Moore is worth reading
because, more clearly and compactly, and
certainly more authoritatively, than most
living poets, he can give you human types
and feeling in the exact symbols in
which they manifest themselves —and
those symbols constitute the images of
poetry.
But they do not constitute all of poetry.
Dr. Moore’s “sonnets” are certainly not
sonnets in the poets’ sense ; his occasional
rhymes are occasionally effective; but
the lack of overall design and movement
leaves them what, in fact, he describes
them: notes from a notebook.
At that, they are no worse in design
than a great deal that passes for poetry
today: we are in danger of forgetting
that a work of art is not something hauled
out of the void, but an inherited plan,
like a motor-car, or organism, like a
racehorse, both of which are to be
developed, but can be developed only as
completed wholes ; and we may some-
times forget that we can recognise genius
but not say where it comes from.
Collins "New" Classics
The Collins Clear-type Press editions
in which so many formerly studied their
classics and standard novels are growing
an inch taller this year, and a little wider,
into a longish, narrowish book, about
x 4|in.; the old maroon cloth with
narrow impressed grooving has given
way to a plain, thicker cloth (there are
samples of maroon and blue) with gold
titling and no ornament.
Samples received are in small but very
clear type (two printed in Amsterdam,
by the way); Essays, Letters and Poems
by Charles Lamb are on paper less opaque
than the others, and it is possible to read
page 19 through the blank-page 17 ; but
the Complete Comedies by William
Shakespeare, Madame Bovary and For
the Term of His Natural Life are well up
to the standard of clarity so long adver-
tised by this library.
The Shakspeare comedies make a 750-
page job; no double-columns; the verse
spread fairly across the page; edited by
Peter Alexander, and with a satisfyingly
factual introduction limited to what
little is known of the five periods of
Shakspeare’s life and then (a really sen-
sible idea) two pages on the first folio
and the quartos. Marcus Clarke’s novel
has an introduction by George Ivan
Smith, who was well-known in Sydney as
an organiser of “what-are-we-young-
people-going-to-do-now? ” broadcasts be-
fore he went over to the 8.8. C.; his
other distinction is to have spent most
of his childhood in prison—as son of one
of Australia’s most enlightened prison-
governors ; and in this capacity he speaks
with some authority on Marcus Clarke
and the prison-system generally.
The translation of Flaubert’s Madame
Bovary is by J. Lewis May, who also
introduces the Lamb essays and selec-
tions ; and both these books have short
biographies prefixed by one “H. d. R.”
Each volume has a pen-portrait of the
author facing the title-page.
The publishers list 117 volumes of the
“New Classics” ; all Shakspeare, in four
volumes; works by Hans Andersen,
Grimm, the Brontes, Dumas, Wells,
Wilde, Dickens, O. Henry, Olive
Schreiner, Stevenson, Goldsmith, Defoe’s
Robinson Crusoe, Swift’s Gulliver's
Travels, Scott, Smollett, Mark Twain,
etc., with introductions by quite an array
of modern talent: Sir Herbert Grierson,
Margaret Cole, Alec Waugh, C. E.
Vulliamy, James Laver, Gerald Bullett,
V. S. Pritchett, etc. The prices are
governed by the approximate number of
pages: “Ordinary,” 224-352 pages, in a
red wrapper, 6s. 6d.; “One Star,” 384-544
pages, blue wrapper, Bs.; and “Double-
starred,” 576 pages or more, yellow
wrapper, 9s. 6d. (Australian prices.)
There is another binding with a cello-
phane wrapper (“Canterbury”) at Bs.,
9s. 6d*, and 11s., respectively.
Mrs. Roosevelt in the East
In 1952 Eleanor Roosevelt set off on
a trip which began in Lebanon, took her
through Syria, Jordan and Palestine and
then to Pakistan, India and Nepal. Her
work on a U.N.O. committee had con-
vinced her that difficulties in discussing
problems on such touchy subjects as con-
tinuance of funds like the Children’s
Emergency Fund could best be met by
first-hand knowledge.
She found that many countries which
have attained national independence since
the war, and which need outside finance
and skilled help in establishing their own
economies, are faced with the choice
between Communist and Democratic
nations as the suppliers of this aid, and
that feelings about the Western world’s
attitude towards color, and so forth, com-
plicate basic economic and political
problems. Her journey is described in
India and the Awakening East (Hutchin-
son).
There is, of course, nothing very
original in Mrs. Roosevelt’s conclusions,
and foj anyone who keeps reasonably
up-to-date in newspaper reading there is
little of great surprise in her dis-
coveries :
American Imperialism and the Almighty
Dollar is still a fearsome shibboleth in many
parts of the world, particularly in the
countries that have so recently become
free.
or;
To get back to my Damascan tile-maker,
there is no doubt that he voiced the feelings
of the great masses of people in this part
of the world. They simply are no longer
willing to suffer the grinding poverty and
exploitation—whether under their own
Governments or a foreign Power —that they
have experienced in the past.
Mrs. Rooseevelt met a great variety of
teople, not by any means ail officials.
She describes clinics, farms, refugee-
camps, scenery and amusing experiences
all with verve and considerable acuity ,
and she gives an excellent (necessarily
generalised, because brief) resume of Ihe
partition of the Indian continent and its
consequences.
The book is illustrated with good
photographs, though some of the people
shown with Mrs. Roosevelt might have
been identified more frequently.
1000th Penguin
The Penguin people have picked a
good-’un for their 1000th publication
One of Our Submarines, by Commander
Edward Young.
The first Reserve-officer ever to com-
mand a British submarine (a whole
volume couldn’t indicate the man’s char-
acter better). Young dives from adven-
ture to adventure —sunk in a collision
between his submarine and a convoy-
merchantman, his feelings a fine piece of
tense descriptive writing; the time he
dived in a hurry and left two men on
the bridge; cruising on the surface into
a Jap-held harbor at night and lashing
out right and left with gun, machine-guns
and oerlikon, submerging quietly at the
height of pandemonium; all good stuff,
told with admirable modesty and re-
straint.
Young has been with Penguins for
years, still is, and drew the beastie on
the jacket-design now familiar through-
out the reading world.
A Lively Lord
Lord Grantley’s memoirs, Silver Spoon,
being extracts from random remini-
scences of Lord Grantley, edited by Mary
and Alan Wood (Hutchinson), have been
syndicated in the Australian Press; com-
plete, they make an entertaining book
about an unusual and admirable English
aristocrat. Unusualness ran in the
family ; his father was introduced to his
American mother at one o’clock as the
wife of his cousin and heir, Charles
Norton; by four o’clock he had eloped
with her on his yacht.
Most of his life the present Lord Grant-
ley has been Richard Norton; by the
beginning of World War I he was learn-
ing how to secure £lOOO advances
(through Hatry the financier) against his
expectations. In the war he was so badly
wounded that they expected he would
never walk again,- even after his sister
got him a special specialist; but he was
having none of that, and, in a steel
corset he was to wear for a long while
after, he was in the War Office working
for Kitchener ; and ended-up as prganiser
of Boys’ Brigades which prepared a quar-
ter of a million school-cadets, etc., for
Army training.
This talent for organisation served him
well when he had to face married life on
the small allowance his father made him
after settling his debts; after several city
jobs in which he learned all about stocks
and shares, he got a job with an Ameri-
can firm that lent money to nations ; and
in these memoirs he tells as much or as
little as he thinks fit of the deals by which
millions were lent to the Balkans; how,
for instance, a hold on municipal-rates
is better than a national promise to pay.
While he was doing this he worked-up
as a sideline a neon-lighting factory to be
worth some £250,000, and competed in
European car-races :
For some years I and my team held the
24-hour record, at 159 kilometres per hour;
but of course none of my records cut any
ice compared with today’s achievements.
During the depression he had to sell
out his neon-company—for £200,000 ; it
became worth £3,000,000 just before
World War ll—and the American finan-
ciers decided to close their London office.
So he went to United Artists’ London
office, and told them he wanted to learn
the film business from the ground up.
By 1931 he was producing in England for
them “quickies” to satisfy the British
quota; but he got together with Korda,
and by 1932 they were amazing England
with what England could do : Laughton
in “Henry VIII.”
By 1933 his United Artists boss was
suggesting that Mr. Norton transfer to
the new British and Dominions Film
Corporation ;
I knew, of course, that Murray (Silver-
stone) wanted to get rid of me. I had got
so obsessed with the idea of doing some-
thing for British films; and of course to
Murray, a middle-man entirely interested in
distribution, and unwillingly saddled with a
Quota Act, I was simply a continual
nuisance. Every time he looked round,
there was I making another picture.
So finally he became a Pinewood pro-
ducer under Rank; he had produced
many films, among which was “The Lam-
beth Walk,” and was on a trip to settle
locations for filming Compton Macken-
zie’s “Carnival” when he ran his car
under the overhang of a motor horse-box,
sustaining “a broken kneecap, two
smashed hands, a smashed arm, a smashed
face (I believe my jaw was hanging down
on my chest) and a collapsed lung which
had been pierced by a broken rib.”
That was in June, 1939. But with the
outbreak of war he was writing to his
old regiment “like every other old wreck”
to offer his services, and received an
unofficial reply he cherishes :
“There are four reasons why we are
unable to avail ourselves of your offer.
First, you are C 3. Second, you were
awarded a wound pension. Third, you are
convalescing after a car-accident. Fourth,
you were no bloody good anyway.”
The Old Vic
Sometime in the mid-1930’5, when she
was sixteen years old, a young lady whose
“new ‘roll-on’ girdle bit into my bare
flesh with savage concentration” and
whose “white straw hat felt like a ton of
‘best kitchen nuts’ on my head,” arrived
perspiring and terrified for an audition
at the Old Vic Theatre school. Her name
was Patricia Don Young, and if for noth-
ing else than that she has written a most
amusing and delightful book about her
student experiences, Dramatic School
(Peter Davies), one must be thankful
that Lilian Bayliss and her assistant,
Esme Church, accepted her as a pupil.
Those were the days! Miss Bayliss in-
discriminately calling everyone, even the
most famous actors, “dear child”; rush-
ing the students off to perform plays for
her pet charities, their repertoire being
small, and selecting “The Trojan Women”
as the play they should give to a home
for “fallen women”:
We played it against a three-hour accom-
paniment of good-humored whistles, cat-
calls, and choice remark's.
Emlyn Williams was playing “Richard
III” and Miss Don Young was the
student detailed to be call-boy for this
play. Three Messengers who were sup-
posed to burst on stage “hot-foot from
the battlefield” couldn’t be found for
their call. Eventually she located them
engrossed in the racing results:
I watched them climb out of the
orchestra-pit, on to the stage. And, from
somewhere above me, heard Richard’s voice,
heavy with relief but speaking in magnifi-
cent impromptu blank verse:
Haste, haste, you tardy Messengers.
What direful news delays you?
The author describes the agonies she
endured —agonies of delight and terror
—when she was chosen to understudy for
Maria in “Twelfth Night” and Ivy St.
Helier, whose part it was, did become ill
and the understudy took the stage. She
and another student talked themselves
into a job with the company when it went
to Elsinore to perform “Hamlet” there
for the first time, and very seasick they
became on the way, and very beautiful
the play was in performance.
Miss Don Young impetuously raced
down a staircase from her dressing-room
to catch a glimpse of Bernard Shaw,
who had come backstage to meet the
“Pygmalion” cast, and collided with that
testy dramatist, falling flat on her back
from the impact and only regaining her
feet and some shreds of composure when
she saw Miss Bayliss approaching. The
author had just fumbled for a pencil and
paper and obtained Shaw’s autograph
when Miss Bayliss, “in full sail” and
dressed in a ceremonial cloak borrowed
from the “Julius Caesar” wardrobe,
arrived angrily on the scene. Nor was
that the end of the confusion, for as Miss
Bayliss, still angry, pulled a door open
a gust of wind
seized part of the immense black cloak
and wrapped it cocoon-wise round Bernard
Shaw’s entire frame, and her flowing red
tapestry stole seemed to form itself into a
loosely knotted turban over his brows.
Whereupon the following conversation
ensued: —
“Madam, please—your garments”—
‘‘Not mine, Mr. Shaw —Julius Caesar’s”—
“Madam, allow me —your stole.”
The book ends after the two-year
training period is finished, with all the
golden lads and girls thinking of jobs,
and realising that only a few of them
will ever attain the heights of the famous
people they have met at the Old Vic—
and how well they and the famous ones
are described, too!
Reviewed Briefly
The Birth of Venus: John Smith
(Hutchinson). Forty-one pages of poems.
Mr. Smith, faced with Venus in the title-
poem, reads her a conventional address
full of today’s poetic tags; and in his
14-section sequence, “Lazarus,” he not
so much raises him from the dead as
buries him under a shower of vagaries.


Anthony
Horderns 9
hns iony
been famous
for
Hi
[
• far all aur customers
in all iimes 9 far all time I
131 years ago we set ourselves a task ... to give more service to our customers than any other store in
Sydney. It wasn’t always easy, yet we’ve managed to give you the kind of service that counts, through
two catastrophic world wars, through the disaster of our fire in 1901. Not only is our staff instructed
to give you superb service at all times . . . our individual services, such as our Clothing Hospital, our
Branches of the Commonwealth Savings Bank and Post Office, our Delivery *Service . . , turn shopping
into a pleasure. We can’t exactly say how many customer services you’ll find in our Store, as they
multiply each week. Our Clothing Hospital (unique in Sydney) was opened a short while ago. Yet
the amount of business it has done fully justifies our belief that if you serve your customers they’ll stay
with you. Apart from increasing the prestige of Anthony Horderns’, thsse services promote customer
goodwill; they’re an added inducement for you to shop in our Store. Not that these services are limited
to Store customers! Our customers in the country regularly send their furniture to us to be refurbished,
renovated. They have their furnishings made up by our experts. When building new homes they seek
advice on colour schemes, on the type of furniture best suited to country conditions. They know,
through experience, that they can depend on us. The big business organisations of Sydney shop in
our Store, too! We’ve equipped whole offices with furniture, flooring, draperies. So you see, there’s
no customer discrimination at Anthony Horderns’. We will give the best service to all our customers,
in all times, for all time!! ,
Here are just a few of our famous services:
Service
CssTsfn
rasw
s
r
I
7*
ft
"1
r,T
s
K
IZ£
4*J
P’S
<: \
'3/L
V^rl
&
s^r?
Commonwealth Post Office on our Gnd. Fir.
Commonwealth Savings Bank Branch
2 Restaurants and 2 Buffets.
Rest Alcoves and Free Toilet Rooms.
Numerous Public Telephones on all Floors.
Hiring out of Crockery, Glass, Cutlery.
Shoe Repairs, Orthopaedic Shoe Salon.
Optical Prescriptions and Repairs.
Clothing Hospital, Gnd. Fir., George St,
Dry Cleaning Section, George St. Floor.
Women's Suits man-tailored, George St.
Men's Leather Jackets Repaired, George St.
Ladies' Hosiery Repairs, Pitt St. Floor.
Umbrella Repairs, Pitt St., Ground Floor.
Racket, Sporting Repaits, Lower Gnd. Fir.
Trout Fishing Licences Renewed, Issued.
Watch and Clock Repairs, Pitt St. Floor.
Re-silvering of all Household Silverware.
Venetian and other Blinds Repaired.
Curtains, Blinds made to your order.
Home Advisory Bureau, Third Floor.
Lounge Suites repaired, reupholstered.
All furniture expertly repolished.
Wire Mattresses re-wired in our factory.
Furniture made to your own design.
Mirrors re-silvered, repaired.
Lino and Carpets laid in your home.
Electrical, Household Repairs, 2nd Floor,
niWWiillMMUi
"TRUTH 1H ADVERTISING"
Bi" iSS
•PHONE BOSS
NIGHT AND DAY. MAIL , ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G. P. 0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Wednesday, September IS, 1954
Vol. 75—No. 3892
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior ' P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
.0
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
* Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
IT'S UP TO EVATT
The position which has arisen through Dr. Evatt’s
intervention in the inquiry into the allegations of the
Petrovs and his. subsequent public statements N can
hardly be allowed to stay where it is. Tie whole
principle of constitutional Parliamentary conduct and
the responsibility of public men is involved.
Dr. Evatt is one of the citizens of Australia best
known to the world. He has been a judge of the High
Court, Attorney-General and Minister for Security;
more. Minister for External Affairs. He is an ex-
president of U.N.O. The very fact that he has made
charges of so grave a nature at all will be of untold
comfort to the enemies of democracy.
The general line indicated for Communists to
follow everywhere in democratic countries is that
publicised in a pamphlet published by the Communist
press in Australia and written by E. F. Hill, secretary
to the Victorian branch of the Communist party, in
August, 1953. He declares that “the Menzies Govern-
ment has deliberately and systematically built up a
police-State [a phrase which Dr. Evatt used in Parlia-
t ment last week], equipped with a great network of
spies, who pass under the name of Security
Service” “an organisation no whit different than
the notorious Gestapo”.... “trained by the notorious
American F. 8.1. to serve the same purpose as the
Gestapo increasingly called upon to commit the
foulest crimes against humanity.” And he alleges that
the Government is determined to “frame Communists
on false charges of conspiracy and espionage, they
read into our documents meanings that are not there.
They use our documents to distort the facts, they
tear them out of their context. They even fabricate
entire documents.” Comrade Hill warns Communists
about the need for care in using telephones and alleges
tapping of telephones.
It is unfortunate that Dr. Evatt, sitting in a com-
mission of inquiry next to Mr. Hill, should have felt
compelled to join him in specific but unsubstantiated
charges. The position is equally awkward for the
Leftist members of the “Labor” party who have joined
with him at this particular juncture—and with the
Communists —in starting a campaign against telepWone-
tapping.
Dr. Evatt can scarcely be unaware that in making
the charges which he has made, both in and outside
the commission, he is playing into the hands of our
enemy in the cold war. The Communists’ advocate
made the same sort of allegations and left the commis-
sion as soon as Dr. Evatt left it. Dr, Evatt should,
moreover, if he has the slightest sense of responsibility
and public duty, have assured himself beyond all doubt
that the charges which he has made can be proved up
to the hilt in a court of law, since they involve criminal
responsibility of a grave nature, as well as grave
negligence in managing the Security Service, and
grossly improper conduct by the Government and the
Ambassador of a foreign Power.
There is room for serious unease in that despite the
fact that Dr. Evatt has made charges in nebulous form
he has not formulated them precisely nor stated the
evidence which he says will prove the criminal part
of them up to the hilt. And it is doubly grave in face
of the remembrance that when public opinion forced
the appointment of a commission into the charges
against the interned Australia First men, Dr. Evatt, as
Attorney-General, made a statement, just as the com-
mission was about to sit, in which he warned all
persons from involving themselves in support of the
A.F. men lest thpy find themselves involved with a
(“Quisling” clique prepared to welcome the Japanese
to these shores, and ready “to stab Australia in the
back at the moment of her greatest peril.” Yet, though
he had the services of such able advocates as Mr.
Dovey assisting the commission and Mr. Shand, Q.C.,
he was not able to prove a single sliver of evidence to
support his words, nor did he offer any support for his
specific charges.
The present matter is so serious, especially having
regard to the fact that the “Labor” caucus is apparently
content with £)r. Evatt’s. goings-on and has made no
attempt to repudiate them, that it should be dealt with
promptly and firmly by the Government.
If a man of Dr. Evatt’s legal mind and training
feels that he can prove what he infers, then he should
be able to set his charges down in legal form and
supply the detailed evidence which has convinced him.
If he does make the charges and supply the evidence
which he has so far failed to supply, despite the
repeated and sedulous attempts of the royal commis-
sion to induce him to do so, then the Commonwealth
should immediately launch proceedings against those
whom Dr. Evatt holds to be responsible. In the
present delicate state of international relationships it
is impossible to conceive a graver set of charges against
Security and its witnesses and the Government than
those adumbrated by the Leader of the Opposition,
both as counsel and as a public man.
If the persons whom Dr. Evatt charges could be
proved to have done what he and the Communists
infer that they have done they would receive no mercy
from the. courts. But the same shduld apply to Dr.
Evatt. If he cannot produce specific, charges and
specific evidence beyond surmise and opinion, then he
is unfit to be Leader of the Opposition, unfit to sit in
the national Parliament, unfit to remain in public
life.
He cannot have it both ways. He is either a
responsible statesman making accusations with a full
sense of public duty to the country and a full concern
for the liberty of the subject and the reputations of
individuals or he is* a wicked defamer for political
purposes. It rests entirely with-himself to establish his
good faith.
Rent-control
Of all the controls imposed by Australian Govern-
ments during the war, rent-control is the one they are
most reluctant to surrender. The reason is not far to
seek; tenants are more numerous than landlords, and
politicians have a superstitious regard for large
numbers. As a result, rents have remained relatively
stable while all other items in the family budget have
soared sky-high.
The Commonwealth Statistician’s index-figures for
retail prices are based on the average of the years
1923-27, which is taken as 1000. In 1942, when controls
were imposed, the index-number for the six capital
cities in respect of food and groceries stood at 1031.
By December, 1953, it had risen to 2702. In the same
period the clothing-index rose from 1308 to 3217, and
“miscellaneous household requirements” from 1091
to 2327. In terms of percentages the rise during the
period was —food and groceries, 162 per cent.;
clothing, 146 per cent.; miscellaneous, 113 per cent.
In combination, these items rose by 140 per cent. By
contrast, the rent-index in 1942 was 976, and by
December, 1953, it had risen to 1151, a percentage-
rise of only 18 per cent., or less than one-eighth of the
increase in the other items of the cost-of-living index.
This is because rent-control has been more strictly
enforced than any other form of price-control; tenants,
as a class, have been given most-favored treatment by
all Governments.
Virtual cessation of homebuilding during the war,
coming on top of a falling-off in the building-rate
during the 1930’5, meant that between the 1933 and
1947 censuses the number of homes built averaged
only 24,000 a year compared with over 84,000 in
1950-51, the peak year of the post-war period. > With a
housing shortage of such dimensions and with a vast
immigration programme envisaged it was inevitable
that for many people there would be the prospect of
homelessness, overcrowding, house-sharing, living with
relations or experiencing the discomforts of tent-town
or housing-settlement life. In these circumstances some
action by the Governments was essential if black-
markets and the sheer weight of money were not to
become the only determinants in getting a home.
Rent-control was intended to prevent avaricious
people from benefiting from other folks’ misfortune
and to ensure that good tenants had security of tenure
at a reasonable rent, without the constant fear of
being evicted to makeway for someone able and willing
to pay more. That it also gave the same privilege to
the bad tenant who deserved no consideration must be
ascribed to the fact that the legislation has not yet been
conceived which would prevent the Devil from looking
after his own.
In its primary purpose rent-control was successful,
but, like all controls, it spawned a brood of evils —the
key-money racket; the harpy who found that by put-
ting a few sticks of furniture in her flat she could let
it “furnished” at an exorbitant rent; the tenant who
sublet rooms or even portions of rooms on an alleged
bed-and-breakfast basis, thereby collecting many times
more rent than she paid to the owner. Perhaps the
ugliest anomaly of rent-control has been the way in
which the law, particularly in New South Wales, per-
mitted a tenant to retain possession of a house against
the legal owner even when the latter was paying
through the nose for inferior accommodation which the
tenant would scorn to consider.
The purpose and intention of rent-control have in
large measure been outpaced by rising costs, so that the
tenant is no longer merely protected ; he is placed in a
position of undoubted privilege. Socialists who used
to rant against the crool landlord have lost their stock-
in-trade, as in current practice the only time the landlord
is given precedence over his tenant is in the title of
the Landlord and Tenhnt Act. Although most States
have now made provision for limited adjustments in
rents, these in general allow only for such things as
increased rates, cost of repairs and so on. No pro-
vision is made for the decline in the value of the pound
since controls were instituted, and the rents on scores
of thousands of houses bear no relation at all to their
1954 values.
The evident truth of this has been ignored by most
Governments, fearful of the loss of votes which might
result from an attempt to adjust the balance between
landlord and tenant. That the fear is well-grounded was
demonstrated at the Westralian Legislative Council
elections early in May. Rent- and price-control were
discontinued in Westralia at the end of 1953, after the
Legislative Council, in which the Liberal and Country
parties have a majority, had rejected a bill to extend
them. “Labor” made this the main issue at the
Council elections and won several seats from the
Opposition, though not sufficient to control the Coun-
cil. Rents increased considerably during the lune
quarter, with the result that the cost-of-living index,
which fell elsewhere in Australia, also rose. Premier
Hawke has claimed that this is proof that control
should not have been abandoned, but a glance at the
figures quoted earlier will show that it is not a question
of injustice being done to tenants but of redress to
owners.
It is useless to fly in the face of facts, and the
truth is that, except through Government housing-
commissions, houses for rent are no longer being
built in any numbers, for the reason that the business
of being a landlord no longer pays. If this merely
indicated a tendency for all Australians to become
the owners of their own homes it would be a good
thing, but this cannot be assumed. A large pro-
portion of our people prefer to be tenants, and so long
as rent-control subsidises them their numbers will
grow rather than decrease. The stage has now been
reached where continued control may have the effect
of perpetuating the housing-shortage in two ways—
by discouraging the building of rental homes and by
hastening the decay of existing houses. Already in
many suburbs it is a simple matter to pick out the
owner-occupied houses. They are the neatly painted
ones, painted by the owners at the cost of materials
only. The rented homes, on the other hand, become
shabbier and shabbier because the cost of painting
would eat up more than a year’s rent.
The latest report of the N. S. Wales Housing
Commission in regard to rented properties suggests
that Governments are learning through bitter experi-
ence that being a landlord is not merely a matter of
signing receipts for rent. It is to be hoped the
experience will lead them to take a more realistic
view of rent-control before it wrecks the whole
programme of home-building.
Bushfires
When Lawson and Ogilvie wrote about bushfires they
had an audience —all Australia —familiar with the
idea of bushfires. ' This, perhaps, made the balladists
careless: and such well-known pieces as “The Fire at
Ross’s Farm,” “Bannerman of the Dandenong” and
earlier ones like “Jhe Fire at Thompson’s Ford”—
The flames in the mountains roar and swirl;
Dense black smoke-clouds over them curl;
Bounding, crackling, leaping higher—
Ah, strong men shrink from a big bushfire!
—strike a later ear as a bit crude, or sentimental, or
both. All these ballads told a very simple story. Either
—as in “Bannerman of the Dandenong”—one man
sacrificing his life for another, or a feud made suddenly
petty by the common enemy, the bushfire.
In “The Fire at Ross’s Farm” the squatter and his
men rescued the selector’s farm, with a love-interest
thrown in. In “The Fire at Thompson’s Ford” the
shearers save the squatter’s home, arid, next year, the
squatter, a wicked fellow who has employed non-union
labor, advertises his change of heart with commendable
brevity: ’
Shearers Wanted—Union Rates.
But behind it all there were eternal verities. They
haven’t changed.
Public appreciation is a little different now, when
a fool in a car can set a countryside ablaze and return
to the city, innocent of what he has done. Not that the
motorist is the only offender, of course. Hikers,
passengers in trains, can, and do, start bushfires. And,
as the N.S.W. Bushfire Committee warns, country
people can be dangerous, too. Farmers and graziers
who have to use fire for clearing, who operate tractors,
harvesters and machinery from which sparks will be
emitted unless precautions are taken ; charcoal-burners,
eucalyptus-distillers, and the like, who use fire in their
work —in fact, almost anyone can start a bushfire.
This is leaving out of consideration the tiny
minority of criminals who start fires deliberately. It’s
been done. A man sets fire to his crop for the insur-
ance, and is discovered a good few miles away, in a
state of surprise, when the fire gets going. With no
intention of burning-out his neighbors, he may manage
to do so. The number of graziers who have winked
at small-scale thefts for fear of a paddock of tinder-
dry grass being set alight maliciously is rather larger
than might be imagined. The danger of this sort of
thing does not rest in the number of people who are
likely to do it. It’s the terrible vulnerability of
paddocks of inflammable stuff, and the difficulty of
controlling fires when they do start.
The N.S.W. Bushfire Committee wants a more
general awareness of the dangers of bushfires now,
before the fires start: and so do similar organisations
in other States. In most country districts volunteer
bushfire-brigades are well organised. Equipment vanes
with districts —there’s a shortage of fire-fighting pumps
in many shires —but mechanisation and the practical
experience of members enables these groups to act very
quickly and efficiently. Still, the old enemy is very
powerful. For much of eastern Australia the spring
rains will decide the time, and the degree, of the chiel
danger. Good rains could mean that grass would come
away quickly, and a heavy growth would mean a
dangerous summer; a dry spring could mean quick
drying, and earlier fires. „
The danger is always there. The Bushfire Com-
mittee has asked for early publicity from press an
radio. Prevention is better than news-stones.
What the balladists touched on—sure of their
public’s reaction—remains. Human comradeship an
human courage opposed to the big bushfires. B
small bushfire can be a terrifying sight; no sane 0
decent person who had seen one should risk, by
moment’s thoughtlessness, starting another.


SAINT BERT AND THE DRAGON


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cahill the Ruthless.
This week Premier Cahill is faced with
another crisis. He has promised to be
“ruthless” in meeting it.
More than 700 members of the
Amalgamated Engineers employed as
mechanics and fitters in the N. S. Wales
Transport Department depots are on
strike in Sydney, the strike starting last
Thursday—this one, at any rate—when
50 A.E.U. men walked out of the Rand-
wick depot after refusing to repair buses
which they had declared black. Other
depots followed when four men were
suspended for refusing to work overtime
to service an air-compressor.
The A.E.U., a mischievous Red union,
always in trouble, had been fined £450
by the Federal Arbitration Court earlier
in the week for carrying on a strike at
the Steeibilt factory in Waterloo in con-
junction with the Sheet-metal Workers,
one of whose leading lights, Alderman
Tom Wright, has been long financial
member of the politbureau of the Com-
munist party and also a member of the
Sydney City Council.
The A.E.U. has also been involved in
the banning of maintenance work at the
powerhouses. And the result of its pat-
tern of operations is that this week
Sydney may be without trams and buses
and industry and householders subject to
power blackouts.
It is quite obviously part of the Com-
munist conspiracy which has developed
since the Petrov commission opened and
which is gradually placing a numbing
finger on Australian industry, and
particularly on Australian transport,
wherever the Communists have key men
who are capable of doing their
treacherous work.
Mr. Cahill is aghast that anything like
this should happen. And he has promised
that the State Government will be “ruth-
less” in meeting the “Communist chal-
lenge.” He has ordered the Minister for
Local Government, Mr. Renshaw, and
the Minister for Transport, Mr. E.
Wetherell, to “take all action considered
necessary.” He is “determined to see
that law and order prevails.”
But up to the time of writing all the
action that his two trembling minions
had taken was to state that the rights of
unionists would not be interfered with
and to “express the view that chaos
would result if the strikes persisted.”
However, on Monday a Cabinet-meeting
“was about to be called” which was to
declare a state of emergency unless the
strikes were settled, and there was a little
more fist-shaking by Mr. Cahill. The
N. S. Wales Trades and Labor Council
had wagged a finger at the strikers.
The Cahill Cabinet’s stern measures are
so much routine that it is scarcely neces-
sary to recount them. The Government
got ready at once to take the buses off
routes where the strikers didn’t want them
to run. It prepared to put a ban on the
use of radiators, neon-lights, etc., and to
ration electricity generally, with the usual
stem list of punishments for those who
break their bans.
In other words, they are ready to
punish everybody except the strikers,
hoping that the Commonwealth* Arbitra-
tion Court will get them out of their diffi-
culties without embroiling them with the
minorities which are so small that they
have Mr. Cahill’s contempt, yet so im-
portant that they can paralyse the com-
munity any time the Communist party
lifts its little finger. Mr., Cahill would
sooner die than offend tne coalminers,
the A.E.U., the waterside-workers,
boilermakers, sheet-metal 'workers and a
few other groups still Communist-run.
He wouldn’t have a chance at the next
election if he did. They are the key
supporters of his party.
Seata and "Teeth"
As a result of the discussion at Manila,
the eight Powers represented at the Seat©
Conference signed a treaty pledging collec-
tive defence against aggression in South-
East Asia and the South-West Pacific.
The eight nations have agreed to settle
international disputes by peaceful means
according to the U.N.O. charter, and to
refrain from the threat of force in any
manner inconsistent with U.N.O. prin-
ciples. They propose separately and
jointly to develop their capacities for
continuous and effective self-help, and for
resisting attack and subversive activities
developed from outside against their
territorial integrity and political stability.
They propose to strengthen their free
institutions and co-operate in mutual
economic and technical assistance. And
they agree to act in accordance with their
constitutional processes. If any one of
them is threatened they will consult
immediately on measures for common
defence. The treaty will remain in force
“indefinitely.”
It doesn’t, of course, mean anything,
even though each copy is bound in dark-
blue leather, with an individual gold pen
provided for each Minister to sign, Mr.
Casey—who was almost sent to Coventry
when he proposed to put some teeth into
the arrangement—first of all. Mr. Dulles
afterwards compared the —probable—
results of the document with that of the
Monroe Doctrine. And Mr. Casey
announced his intention of flying to
Rangoon to ask the Burmese to join, he
having declared that the treaty could “not
have been made ope whit more effective
than it is now.” The press of every
country represented is naturally convinced
that the butcome is a “personal triumph”
for its own delegate.
Not satisfied with the treaty, the meet-
ing also adopted a Pacific charter. It is
even more wordy and empty in its implica-
tions than the treaty itself.
Meanwhile, across the world the Big
Three have replied to the Soviet Union’s
proposal for a general alliance against
aggression in Western Europe to secure
peace—part of the agreement proposed,
of course, being that everybody shall
disarm except the U.S.S.R. The reply
stressed the fact that “security in Europe
cannot be brought about by the signature
of a general treaty” ; that it “will only
result from the solution of concrete
problems, of which the most pressing are
those of, Germany and Austria.”
Much the same is true of the Pacific.
Flauntings of strength are not much good,
and neither are resolutions while two
Chinese Governments exist, one sup-
ported by the West and out of power but
still daily bombarding the Chinese main-
land, and the other in power and sup-
ported by the Communist bloc.
It may not, of course, be possible to
make peace with Red China at all. Its
leaders may—indeed, appear to be—
wedded to Marxian-Leninism, which
means that they are wedded t 6 the idea
that Communism cannot flower without
world conquest and the destruction of the
capitalist system. But even if peace can
be made it would be impossible to find
an approach to it without the settlement
of the concrete problem of the Nationalist
Chinese. Their position is fantastic.
Sydney's "Green-belt" Costs
On September 8, K. B. Morgan, Labor
member for Parramatta, asked the N., S.
Wales Minister for Local Government:
(1) How many claims fpr compensation
have been lodged with the Cumberland
County Council by owners of land affected
by the County scheme?
(2) What is the total amount of these
claims?
(3) How many claims have been dealt
with?
(4) How many claims ]*ave yet to be dealt
with?
(5) How much compensation has been
paid?
(6) What is the estimated amount of com-
pensation which will have to be paid to
complete the scheme?
Answer : — :
(1) 22,000, excluding claims for compensa-
tion for land actually acquired by the
Cumberland County Council for the pur-
poses of the County scheme.
•(2) 1500 claims have yet to be classified,
but the amounts specified in the claims so
far classified total £359,000,000.
(3) 5597 have been finally dealt with by
the Cumberland County Council: 954 have
been withdrawn by the claimants: 1500
have yet to be classified: the remaining
13,949 have been classified and technically
examined and are now being examined by
the council’s legal officers on the question
whether there is any liability for payment of
compensation.
(4) 15,449, of which 13,949 are in the final
stages of examination.
(5) The Cumberland County Council has
made the following payments to June 30,
1954, in respect of land acquired in con-
nection with the County scheme:
Purchase of land: —
£
Green-belt and rural .. 21,235
County roads .. .. .. 188,793
Railways 957
Open space 421,756
Total 632,741
(6) It is impossible to estimate the amount
payable. The amount claimed is no indi-
cation of the amount the Cumberland
County Council will be called upon to pay.
Many claims are fantastic.. The following
ik a typical example;
A business enterprise with property
. throughout the County submitted 151
claims, totalling £22,000,000, and made the
following submission:
“In view of the complex nature of the
terms of the ordinance, and having regard
to the fact that at the present time there
are no judicial decisions on its interpre-
tation to enable us to determine the exact
nature and extent of our claim for com-
pensation, we have thought it desirable to
claim in each case an amount which is
related not only to the value of the land
and buildings but also to the possible
loss of trade oyer an indefinite period,
and to any other relevant factors. It is
anticipated, however, that, with some
possible exceptions, our claims will be
reduced to nil in the event of appropriate
consents being obtained under clauses
34 and 35 of the ordinance.”
The Cumberland County Council is not a
Government body but, as custodian of
public funds, must await interpretation by
the court of the provisions of the Act and
ordinance relating to compensation so that
it will have principles to guide it in expend-
ing public funds on the payment of com-
pensation.
The claims which Local-government
Minister Renshaw described as “fantas-
tic” are hardly more fantastic than some
of the “green-belt” plans and provisions.
A Government which is everlastingly
complaining about lack of funds, and
which is unable to carry on successfully
enterprises established by Governments
of a generation ago—such as the railways
—has blueprinted (or greenprinted) a
most ambitious and costly county-plan-
ning scheme. It may never get beyond the
blueprint stage, but it will cause extra-
ordinary frustration and financial hard-
ship to property-owners. There is no
relief from local-government rates on
properties doomed by the green-belt plan
but not yet taken over by the Cumberland
Council.
Curtain Up
From London: The visit of the Labor
delegation to China has not provoked
the anger in Britain that it has in other
places. There seems to be an idea, fallaci-
ous as it may be, that something might
be gained and nothing lost if potential
antagonists visit each other and exchange
views.
Whether Attlee has helped the Western
cause by leading the delegation is more
questionable. It cannot be gainsaid that
his foreknowledge of the implications
amounts to his virtual acquiescence in a
tremendous boost to Communist propa-
ganda and a jar to Anglo-American
relations.
That is a high price to pay for the
purely party-political device of pre-
empting Bevan and stealing his thunder.
Attlee has acted as leader of the Labor
party and as a direct result of a resolu-
tion in last year’s conference that called
for such a visit. (And, for good or ill,
he has Churchill’s tacit consent, since a
Parliamentary delegation is to visit
Moscow later this year.)
From all accounts it doesn’t seem that
the delegation, with Attlee and Bevan as
co-visitors on terms of beaming polite-
ness, has done anything to compose
Labor’s disunity. Nor should the search-
ing cross-examination that awaits their
return leave them with much peace-of-
mind for getting down to their newspaper
articles.
National Galleries
“D.S.”: It would seem, surely, absurd
to visit Scotland to study Italian art; or
Ireland —though there happen to be some
excellent Turners in the National Gallery
in Dublin, and better Cotmans and Tom
Girtons than in the Tate in London —
to survey the English watercolorists.
Even in Paris the lovely compact little
gallery of the Impressionists, with the
exquisite early Sisleys swimming in light,'
the pastels of Degas and Monet’s water-
lilies flowering immortally in their green
pond, has more,to say for itself, a clearer,
stronger, more precise statement than the
vast stupefying wilderness of the Louvre.
It is the epitome of a nation at one of
the peaks of its civilisation ; as the gallery
of the modernists, also useful as a com-
pact summary, and with its coarse
Picassos and its wire sculpture like the
skeletons of bats, is the epitome of a
nation which sought for barbarism—and,
alas, found it.
If a visitor to Europe thus wishes to
see in each country its own distinctive
art, visitors to Australia would wish to
see, presumably, Australian art; and that
is why the present commentator, travel-
ling not long ago by ship round the Aus-
tralian coast en route to Europe, found it
so lamentable that Australian art was not
once mentioned in the official tourist-
pamphlets which the shipping-company
handed to passengers at each port —Syd-
ney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth —
outlining places of interest.
There was indeed one mention of art.
Melbourne National Gallery—presum-
ably the information for these pamphlets
comes from the various State Tourist
Departments—drew attention to its Van
Eyck.
So here it is again—what the Mel-
bourne literary critic Mr. A. A. Phillips
so aptly summed-up as Australia s cul-
tural cringe.” We cower before the
gigantic spectre of European art; we
hide our Gruners, our Streetons, our
Norman Lindsays and our Lance Solo-
mons ; we won’t let the overseas visitor
see exactly what he wants to see; what
we have done ourselves in art and, for
those who have confined to the
ports, what Australia looks like outback
in, say, Tom Roberts’s glorious “The
Breakaway.”
And, of course, the final absurdity is
that this art which we so diligently con-
ceal is, in fact, not merely of scenic
interest to the visitor but able to hold its
own artistically with anything one sees
anywhere. Where is there a Monet to
equal Gruner’s “Spring Frosts”? Where
in the whole of the world’s art is there a
watercolorist to equal Norman Lindsay?
Except for Norman Lindsay we may
be short of massive achievements, but
if Scottish art, as one sees it in the
National Gallery in Edinburgh, is Wilkie’s
gay little head of Walter Scott, Allan
Ramsay’s most tender portrait of his wife,
a wonderful stormy sea by MacTaggart
and Raeburn’s Mrs. Scott-Moncrieff melt-
ing like some delicious caramel; and if
Irish art is old J. B. Yeats’s striking impres-
sion of his son the poet, Orpen with his
dead ptarmigan, the rich leafy curves of
Henry O’Neill’s “Wood” and the brilliant
little watercolors of Hercules Brabazon
and Joseph Hone, in the Adelaide gallery
alone —in Lambert’s self-portrait,
Roberts’s “Breakaway,” Heysen’s big
landscape and Longstaff’s portrait of his
wife—are four Australian masterpieces
which every tourist should see.
No Cloaks or Daggers
Following the withdrawal by the
commissioners of Dr. Evatt’s right to
appear before the "Royal Commission on
Espionage, the inquiry settled down on a
more sober, though more romantic, note
with Mr, Richards (the Deputy Chief of
the Security Service), Dr. H. C. Beckett
(an ophthalmic surgeon of Macquarie-
street), and Dr. Michael Bialoguski in the
box. But it is still concerned with Dr.
Evatt’s charges, which will be dealt with
completely before other aspects.
Mr. Richards gave details of the processes
by which Petrov was brought over from the
Soviet Embassy and induced to supply the
service with information about espionage
activities. His story was corroborated in details by
Dr. Beckett, whose help in sounding Petrov, his
patient, about his willingness to remain in Aus-
tralia had been enlisted. Mr. Richards made it
clear in evidence that Petrov had brought infor-
mation about Soviet Union activities of great
importance to the security not only of Aus-
tralia but of other countries with which Aus-
tralia is in close relationship. He testified that
Petrov had told him that during the war a
serious situation for Australia had occurred in
the Department of External Affairs, when per-
sons in the department had passed important
information to Soviet diplomats within the
Commonwealth.
He emphasised that Petrov had applied for
political asylum on April 3, and had then
been paid the £5OOO which Security had made
ready a month before. This amount was paid
before any documents were handed to the
Security Department, which, indeed, looked on
the papers which were eventually given them
merely as subsidiary to the main information
obtained from Petrov about the general opera-
tions of the spy network.
Mr. Richards said that he did not attach any
political significance to the documents when
they were handed over and did not actually see
any such significance in them now.
Brigadier Spry and Mr. Richards, indeed, had
merely glanced through them without examining
them thoroughly when Petrov produced them.
And it was only when he had actually escaped
from Russian contacts and had placed himself
under the protection of Security that they took
them over and examined them in detail.
The evidence of Dr. Bialoguski, who was the
operative through whom contact with Petrov
was maintained, is certainly the real Secret
Service story of the inquiry. He is a young,
bearded ex-Polish citizen, now a naturalised
Australian. He was born in Kiev, one of the
band of Poles who succeeded in escaping from
Lithuania in 1941 by the expedient of nominat-
ing to go to Cura?oa, a Dutch Caribbean pos-
session which called for no visas or passports.
Dr. Bialoguski, arrived in Australia, com-
pleted his medical course at Sydney University,
served in the Second A.1.F., and, while practis-
ing in Macquarie-street, agreed to pose as a
Communist, to join fellow-traveller bodies,
appear publicly at Communist deputations and
operate as a counter-espionage agent dealing
with the Canberra Embassy of the U.S.S.R.
He was so successful that he achieved a num-
ber of friendships and some patients at the
Embassy, grew so intimate with Petrov that
they called each other by their Christian-names
and Petrov used him to obtain immigration-
forms for misuse by the Kremlin, was taken
by Petrov on various expeditions which illus-
trated Soviet methods of espionage.
In one case it was proposed to bong an
illegal agent into the country in the guise of
the son of an old lady who wished a member
of her family in Russia to come to Australia
for purposes connected with the bequest ot
her property. The suggestion from the doctor
that he and Petrov might buy a restaurant
together met with the approval of Moscow,
which thought that such an establishment would
provide a fine meeting-place for its illegal
° P Eve t ntually Dr. Bialoguski persuaded Petrov
to join him in buying a poultry-farm called
“Dreamaores” at Castle Hill to which Pefr?
was to retire when he abandoned his Soviet
citizenship—a place where there wou d be no
worries and no ambassadors.” But the scheme
fell through when it was discovered that Petrov
had been ordered back to Russia. Later on
the plan for Petrov to stay in Australia was
obstructed by the attitude of Mrs. Petrov, but
(i Continued on next page)


in the end Bialoguski steered his catch into
safe waters.
There was one stage at which Petrov, the
apostate to Communism, was so convinced of
his mentor’s adherence to the party-line that
he, the recreant Russian, tried to indoctrinate
him with a little propaganda in favor of the
superiority of Australian conditions over those of
the Soviet.
It was throughout a somewhat grim comedy
in which Bialoguski played the role of a
disloyal Australian citizen, completely deceiving
everybody until the tale was unfolded in the wit-
ness-box. It had a background of the kind of
paraphernalia that novelists love and rarely find
in real life —a Secret Service man with a beard,
“technical recording devices” concealed
about the person, eavesdroppers in the wains-
coting and behind curtains, Security guards,
contrived meetings. But —a disappointment—
no cloaks or daggers.
The climax came in evidence from Bialoguski
that after he had brought Petrov home to the
Western fold he had been approached by Mr.
John Rodgers, of Australian Soviet House
(Melbourne), who said that he knew he (the
doctor) would be implicated by witnesses before
the commission and that “there were two
avenues open to me—to assist Petrov and the
royal commission, in which case my reputation
would be ruined,” or to “assist him and his
friends,” in which case “consideration would
be given to me.”
“It was obvious,” the doctor swore, “that
Rodgers’s ‘friends’ were Communist sympathisers,
and I pretended to be somewhat scared by his
hint of blackmail and I promised co-operation.”
And then he took Mr. Rodgers to a restaurant,
had some more conversation with him and
made a record of it on his “technical device”
which he immediately handed to the Security
Service.
When he remarked that he thought Rodgers
said the whole' case before the commission
would stand or fall depending on the credibility
of Petrov as the main witness, Mr. Justice
Owen said: “He made a very bad guess,” thus
bringing into relief the salient feature of the
week’s evidence, which was that, in each trans-
action down to the most unimportant interview,
every step that ingenuity eoujd devise had
been taken to ensure that there would be
ample corroboration of events and conversa-
tions in the form of contemporary reports,
support by concealed listeners when possible,
and, whenever feasible, tape- or wire-recordings
made under conditions unimaginable to the
average layman.
During the hearing in Melbourne Petrov was
cross-examined by Mr. Hill, representing Rupert
Lockwood, the alleged author of Document J,
and secretary of the Victorian branch of the
Communist party, as to whether he had been
hopelessly drunk on occasions at Bialoguski’s
flat. He denied it.
Dr, Bialoguski gave his evidence with calm-
ness and clarity, as if it were all in the day’s
work, though he showed some signs of emotion
when he admitted that his pose as a Communist
had* seriously affected his practice, since his
patients, mostly New Australians, were largely
hostile to Communism. But he smiled when
Mr. Justice Owen closed his career as a counter-
espionage agent for him with the remark:
“Well, now they will know you are a patriot.”
POLITICAL POINTS
My Brilliant Career. —Born Maitland
(N.S.W.); Fort-street scholar; Sydney
University M.A., Ist-class honors,
LL.B. University Medal, LL.D. Univer-
sity Medal; called to N.S.W. Bar; life-
member University Sports Union for ser-
vices ; M.L.A. for Balmain; K.C.; Jus-
tice of the High Court; M.H.R. for Bar-
ton; Attorney-General and Minister for
External Affairs in Chifley Government;
P.C.; President United Nations General
Assembly; Deputy Prime Minister;
counsel against banks in Bank Grab case
in High Court; Leader of Federal Oppo-
sition ; counsel for unions testing valid-
ity of Communist-party Dissolution Act;
leader of campaign against Anti-Com-
munist Referendum; defeated in bid for
Prime Ministership at 1954 Federal elec-
tions ; counsel for two members of own
secretarial staff before Royal Com-
mission on Espionage; now Australia's
leading rabble-rouser and stunt-
man ; ? ?
• •
According to reports which leaked out
of the Federal caucus-meeting in Can-
berra last Wednesday, Dr. Evatt delivered
an emotional 75-minutes speech and left
the chair hurriedly to prevent Ward
embarrassing him by having a motion
of confidence in him passed. Evatt later
called a press conference to say that it
was “all lies” spread by “paid informers”
and “deliberate falsification” within the
party, and that he had never known such
a quiet party-meeting in years.
• •
From Molongloside:
In his latest and lengthy statement about the
Petrov commission Dr. Evatt, sitting as a sort
of self-appointed J.P. and prosecutor com-
bined, has found a prima facie case against the
commissioners in the dock on several counts.
He suggests, in effect, that they should now
themselves be tried along with the Petrovs and
the Security Department and the Federal
Government by a new commission of five mem-
bers appointed by the Government and the
Opposition jointly, If Dr. Evatt preaches what
he has practised in the past, the new commission
will, of course, be exactly like the Privileges
Committee which “Labor” set up to inquire
into the matter of Blain’s gold pass. The chair-
man, as in that curious body, will be Dr.
Evatt, a deeply interested party. It will be
held in secret, and the evidence will not be
published. And it will inquire not into the
bona fides of the persons accused in Document
J, but into those of the wretched men who have
dared to find the names of Dr. Evatt’s secre-
taries and flunkeys inscribed in it. And in the
confusion the real issue will be gently thrown
over the cliff and right—according to Dr. Evatt
—will be vindicated.
• •
Ward didn’t take to heart Menzies’s
remark that he (Eddie) was not fit to be
in Parliament; he passed it on at the
next caucus meeting to Albert Thompson
(Port Adelaide): “You’re not fit to be in
the Labor party!” Thompson passed it
back: “I’m as fit to be in it as you are.”
Which leaves the question in the air.
• •
Clement Attlee, in Australia for five
days, is collecting criticism from all sides.
“Pravda” doesn’t like him because he has
been urging a reduction of Russian arma-
ments. Some members of the Australian
“Labor” party don’t like him because he
supports recognition of Red China. The
Americans disapprove of him for the
same reason. And the smile rising on
Mao’s face as he reads the Attlee dictum
that he has given China “the best gov-
ernment it has had so far” will be apt to
fail when he notices the visitor’s specula-
tion whether it will “relapse into the old
pattern of a corrupt privileged class.”
• •
To add insult to Cahill’s annoyance at
“foreign” lotteries doing business in
N.S.W., the £75,000 first-prize in the
Tasmanian Government’s first big sweep
went to a widower at Penrith (N.S.W.),
and second-prize went to the same State.
Just as well income-taxation is a Federal
matter, not State, otherwise there might
be some special provision for taxing lot-
tery-wins in States other than that of
origin. Lottery-prizes are at present tax-
free in the hands of the winners.
• •
The Commonwealth Auditor-General’s
report shows how loose is the financial
administration of Governments. Time
was when the kind of strictures passed
by A.-G.s today would have been a
national sensation accompanied by the
resignation of a Minister or two ; but the
truth is that government has become so
vast and complicated that no Minister has
the foggiest idea of the financial detail of
his department, And who can blame
Ministers when the fact that an air com-
pany has failed to pay a small sum of
£393,750 due as sales-tax comes to the
A.-G. himself only “quite accidentally”?
-• •
The N. S. Wales liquor referendum
and the N.Z. general election will be
held the same day—November 13.
• •
The Cahills have chosen November 13
as the day for the ballot on liquor hours.
The “free and enlightened” electors will
have a choice between 6 p.m, and 10 p.m.,
and afterwards the police and publicans
will arrange the hours to suit their own
convenience as they do now. One per-
tinent question at the poll will be whether
the Government intends to enforce the
liquor-hours law, which it doesn’t now,
even if Broken Hill is left out of question.
• •
“Mugga Way”: It is aimed by the end
of next year to bring under “control”
the whole of the native peoples of Aus-
tralian New Guinea and Papua, includ-
ing 400,000 in addition to the 1,250,000
"O. EAST IS EAST, AND WEST IS WEST...."
“Communist China was not a threat to the West, Mr. Attlee said on
his arrival in Australia.”
or so now in regular contact with the
Administration. Health, education and
agricultural activities wifi be co-ordin-
ated, and there will be substantial in-
creases in staff and expenditure. There
are now 3,400 medical personnel, includ-
ing 48 doctors, and a £7 million hospital-
building programme is under way. In the
next few years 600 additional primary
schools will be provided, in addition to
super-primary and technical schools. On
the agricultural side the growing of rice,
coffee and cocoa by natives and Euro-
peans will be encouraged, as well as
cattle-grazing, rubber-production and
the replanting of copra-plantations.
• • '
The Sydney city-railway system has a
habit of breaking-down on Friday even-
ings. That might be a clue for some
Sherlock Holmes in the department that
runs the perilous passenger-trucks around
Australia’s oldest city. There was a
breakdown on Tuesday of last week, and
for the first time an intelligible explana-
tion came over the Wynyard loud-
speakers. The voice—not Winsor’s —
announced, rather proudly, that the
reason was a power-failure, which was,
apparently, beyond the control of the
permanent-way men.
Australia’s two Parliamentary repre-
sentatives at the U.N. General Assembly
this month, Liberal A. Hulme (Q.) and
Opposition-man Percy Clarey (Vic.), are
well-chosen. Hulme is a keen and well-
informed businessman, and Clarey has
long been known in trade-union circles
for his moderation, and for the intelli-
gence and conviction with which he
expresses it. A crippling lameness and
occasionally indifferent health have
checked him from going further in
“Labor” ranks. He is popular on both
sides of the House, The other members
of the delegation, which is being led by
R. G. Casey, are Percy Spender (who
will take over the leadership next month),
John Hood (Ambassador in Bonn), A.
Stirling (from The Hague), Professor
Copland (from Ottawa), and W. Forsyth,
Australian permanent representative to
U.N. Other members will be drawn from
the staff now in the U.N., and two
External Affairs officers will go from
Canberra.
• •
The acting Commonwealth Statistician
has decided that Australians are not a
wine-drinking people. He points out that
average pre-war consumption was about
half a gallon a head each year. The
intake was greater in the war owing to
restricted output of beer, the increase in
available supplies, and the presence of
U.S. troops. War-time peak was 1.28
gallons, but in 1945-46 it slipped to less
than a gallon. Then there was a rise
to a new peak of 1,8 gallons in 1951-52,
but in 1952-53 it fell again to 1.36 gallons.
In the same year the consumption of
spirits was 0.20 proof-gallons, but beer
touched a new high of 21.05 gallons a
head. The only liquor-import of note
was 450,975 proof-gallons of whisky,
valued dt £1,125,770, but exports included
£764,000-worth of wine, £145,000-worth
of brandy, £96,000-worth of gin and
£91,000-worth of whisky. Rum touched
£48,000, and liqueurs just on £20,000.
• •
Northern members of the Queensland
State Parliament last week painted a
gloomy picture of the state of Queensland
air-defence —aerodromes covered with
grass, not a sign of organisation or of
machines. All that has happened is that
North Queensland has become a suburb
of Sydney—aerially speaking—while the
honorable members have been asleep.
The defence is there all right, but it isn’t
Where it was in World War 11. The north
'is twenty-times better defended than it
was in 1941.
• •
Question by Darby, M.L.A. for
Manly, addressed to N.S.W. Education
Minister Heffron:
(1) Is it a fact that Samuel Phineas Lewis
has been appointed as a member of a sub-
committee of the Board of Secondary
School Studies to prepare a new syllabus
bn social studies?
(2) If the answer to (1) above is in the
affirmative, will he inform the House what
are the terms of the appointment and upon
whose authority was the appointment
made?
(3) Is it a fact that Mr. Lewis subscribes
to Communistic principles and supports the
attitude of the Communist party?
(4) Is it a fact that the Communist party
is doing everything in its power to ensure
that Communist propaganda influences the
minds of immature people, including
adolescents attending our State schools?
(5) Is it a fact that many teachers with
Communistic sympathies are now teaching
social studies in our schools?
(6) If these are facts, will he give an assur-
ance that every possible precaution is being
taken to ensure that under the cloak of
teaching social studies Communist propa-
ganda is not given to our boys and girls?
(7) Can he give an assurance that S. P.
Lewis now abhors Communist teaching?
Answer by the Minister deferred.
• •
Not satisfied with the enormous cut
it is getting out of Tatt.’s, Vic. State
Government is casting hungry eyes at the
Olympic Games. A request from the
organising committee for entertainment-
tax exemption brought a prompt “no”
from Premier Cain. A revenue rake-off of
£lOO,OOO is estimated.
• •
The International Whaling Commis-
sion reports concern at larger catches
in the Antarctic. The overall output of
whale-oil last season was 2,285,526
barrels, an increase of 167,429 barrels,
although outside the Antarctic the yield
fell by nearly 22,000 barrels. The com-
mission studied infractions of its regula-
tions, and agreed that it might soon have
to restrict more severely the Antarctic
catch of blue whales, while guarding
against a corresponding increase in the
catch of fin-whales. The next meeting
will be held next year in Moscow.
• •
The housing-shortage isn’t beaten yet,
but the builders are making some head-
way. For the year ended June 30,
74,807 houses were built; the number
finished during the June quarter was
18,707, an improvement of 1886 on the
previous quarter, and at the end of June
there were 70,995 houses in course of
construction.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
BANK-TELLERS are, as a rule, conven-
tional and circumspect in their dress ;
but in office-hours only the upper por*
tions of these gentlemen are visible to
the public. Which was just as well in a
certain branch in one of the hottest parts
of Westralia. There it was the pleasant
custom of the teller to remove his nether
garments and stand in a tub of cold
water. He presented a distinctly queer
appearance from the bank’s side of the
counter, particularly when attending to
women customers. He had his counter-'
part in a Melbourne suburban branch,
where the teller was a very keen
cricketer. In his hurry to get away on
Saturdays, this chap often commenced
changing into his flannels just before the
bank closed. Many a time he was caught,
so far as his invisible lower half was
concerned, by a customer rushing in to
cash a cheque. However, he remained
“ Don't they think of EVERYTHING!”
calm and cool, while the customer
collected. —“Ceg.”
♦j*
“F.S.”: Melbourne National Gallery is
buying several paintings by a “mystery”
artist who is said to have painted and
exhibited in Melbourne in the ’eighties,
and whose work was sufficiently well
regarded to be bought by John Stanford,
founder of the Stanford University, Cali-
fornia. Stored for 60 years, the Galjery
purchases have only recently been
rediscoverd. Nothing is known about the
artist locally, except that he once held a
joint-exhibition with Julian Ashton. His
“P. Mac.”: The advent of spring affects
people differently. Baldy, for example,
gazed about him on a marvellous morn-
ing recently and remarked: “Gripes,
what a snifter day—if you were only
twenty-one and weren’t married!”
“Pawang”: In the Arbitration
Court in Melbourne Judge Foster
refused to readmit a man —a ship-
painter and -docker —to the mari-
time industry because the appli-
cant said he spent £3 a week on
drink. This the judge thought an
unconscionable amount of sack,
and suggested that the basic wage
was too high if persons could
afford to drink that much. In
the ensuing revelations city Bungs
estimated that the average cost
to a man who drinks every day
is about £4 10s, Regulars said
it was easy to spend £5 to £6 a
week, counting Saturday and the
bottles taken home for Sunday.
Wharfies claimed it all depended
on “good” and “bad” weeks ; the
average cost over the year, they
reckoned, was about a fiver.
“Fons”: A psychoanalyst might find
something significant in “Pawang’s” com-
parison of the nude human body with
roast pork (B. 1/9/’54). I’m no psycho-
analyst myself, though I’ve puzzled over
Herr Freud, mostly in my adolescence ;
but I can claim to have done some re-
search on food-images. As a p.-0.-w. it
was my experience (and the experience
of a few thousand other involuntary
scientists) that when hungry—really
hungry—persons of our racial culture
dream of steak-an’-onions. Slavs, pre-
sumably, dream of borsch. But we were
haunted by visions »f thick, juicy steak,
oozing gravy, rich with onions. Close
your eyes and you could see it; you smell
it. It was hard not to talk about it, and
if you did some other visionary was likely
to murder you. But, of course, in this
case it wasn’t the presence of the victuals
that brought on the visions. It was the
absence.
“Capricorn”: Husbands of the female
barnacle are domiciled in a pocket in her
body. The status of human husbands
has become little better. The happy era
when be whiskered papas thundered
righteous curses at their cringing families
is for ever past. Husbands have slipped.
The trend is emphasised in a recent
Sydney “Sun” headline: “Should all hus-
bands be branded?”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Alma”: We had paid only a bob each
for the room for the night, so we weren’t
inclined to carp; and it was in Italy, so
we were ready for mild surprises. AH
five of us trundled upstairs, six flights
of them, and were shown our room. ,On
each landing the rest of the building’s
occupants were grouped at their door-
ways, the better to observe and smile at
the curious girls from “Ow-orshstralya.”
The room was a bit crowded, but what
do you expect for a bob-a-night? What
did give us a slight jolt was the occupant
of the room next-door. Firmly tied to
the leg of the kitchen table by a piece of
string attached to his own leg, and regard-
ing us round the doorway with as much
curiosity as the rest of the tenants, was
a large black rooster,
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“F.S.”: Salvator Dali, whose stunts
have included appearing on a London
platform in a diving-suit and -helmet
with two Russian wolfhounds on a leash,
walking around Madrid with a loaf of
bread on his head, and inventing nasal
crutches of gold studded with jewels for
tired women of fashion to keep their
“Well, look what you did of me !”
noses above cafe tables, has now filed
a suit in New York for $7OOO to recover
the cost of a portrait he did of an attrac-
tive woman who took one look at it and,
according to her husband, bolted in
terror. Australian modernists complain
of lack of official recognition. They
ought to change their methods —there are
Dalis in every important gallery in
America and Europe.
“P.0.M.C.”: Stating that one look at
the Dali portrait had frightened the
sitter, her sued spouse added that it was
a “monster, sort of slapped together,”
and was “a heck of an unpleasant pic-
ture,” with colors “real grim.” Preju-
diced terms, perhaps; but I submit
defendant in this case deserves to pay
dearly; commissioning a surrealist to
paint your wife’s portrait (assuming you
love her) strikes me as tantamount to
deliberately procuring an incompetent
vet. to handle her confinement.
“Advocate”: Came
across The Frontiers-
man’s Pocket Book
among my forgotten
books. The copy is
dated 1911, and was
compiled by Captain
Roger Pocock, foun-
der of the Legion of
Frontiersmen in 1904.
I was under the im-
pression that the
legion was defunct,
but I recently met a
New Zealand squad-
ron-leader from whom
1 learned that there is
a Command in Aus-
tralia (not very strong,
but active), with a
commandant in Syd-
ney. The Pocket Book
has an interesting
array of contributors
—Baden-Powell; Erskine Childers, who
wrote The Riddle of the Sands; Gutcliffe
Hyne, best known for his stories of “Cap-
tain Kettle” in “Pearson’s Magazine” ;
Fred Lindsay, Australian expert with the
stockwhip ; F. C. Selvus, big-game hunter
in South Africa; Colonel S. B. Steele, of
the Canadian Mounties; and Edgar
Wallace. The legion had an impressive
record in War I; among other decora-
tions,’ members collected 11 V.C.s.
Members seem to have served everywhere
in War 11. Other notabilities who were
members include General Smuts, Lord
Roberts, General French and Scott and
Oates, of Antarctic fame.
‘Soc.”: lam all with “An Chuidh”
(B. 8/9/’54) in his resentment of Charles
Shaw’s suggestion that in Wales the
Welsh deliberately speak Welsh in front
of “foreigners” to emphasise pride of
nationalism. At the same time I can
understand Shaw’s misconception. When
I was in Wales a few years back I at
first had that idea myself, till, from a
word or two here and there, I realised
that they were speaking English.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: When I admitted 20
patients from a unit up the line—head-
aches, backaches, and all the ailments
which call for a nice long investigation
-—the provisional diagnosis of three of
them I hadn’t met up with before (or not
on paper). But when, months afterwards,
I saw the mosquito-infested swamp where
they’d been camped, I forgave them —
even though the ailment of the three
was noted as “oscillating plumbi”
(swinging the lead).
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.A.L.”: At the opening of Perth’s
Causeway bridge two years ago the
Westralian press was disappointed at
the absence of a certain Irish antique-
dealer whom they hoped would be pre-
sent to re-enact his exploit of 20 years
previously when the Sydney Harbor span
was unofficially opened. A leading Perth
daily then sounded this warning note;
“As a precautionary measure, the Hibern-
ian Society has been asked to discipline
any of its members who may feel in-
clined to steal the show in like manner
to Major de Groot, of Harbor Bridge
fame, and another Irishman, John
Stephen Maley, who similarly made his-
tory when the first bridge over the Swan
was declared open in 1843.” Four years
hence it is expected that this skeleton will
again be dragged out of the pressmen’s-
closet, the Westralian Government having
just passed a bill for the erection of a
bridge over the “Narrows”; estimated
date of completion, 1959. Clearance for
river-craft at high tide will be 30ft., and
if at the present rate of silting there is
still a channel left in the Swan, boats
drawing not more than 3ft. should be
able to pass from Melville into Perth
waters.
♦jf
“Bo”: For the indifferent sleeper there
are a few sounds which can induce the
required pre-sleep drowsiness. One is the
“sweet pretty creature” of the up-late
willy-wagtail in the garden. Another
the soft swish of car-tyres on a wet road.
But there is nothing so soothing as the
sound of running water, especially the
gentle dripping of rainwater down the
downpipe. Even heavy rain drumming on
the roof (provided you have a garage for
the car) is quite good. But not all run-
ning-water. To the paterfamilias there
is nothing so sleep-shattering as having
to listen to an endlessly-running heater
for a bath that will eventually be about
threequarter full, forcing him to think
furiously of an astronomically-mounting
gas- or electricity-bill. It is far worse
than listening to the idiot opposite ham-
mering in his garage, or the staccato
backfiring of a motor-bike.
THE DAY OF A DOCTOR OF
LAWS
1 rise at dawn and think and think
And then sit down with pen and ink
To write to all whose boss I am
A long and gossipy telegram
In case they’re worrying and perplexed
And asking themselves what I’ll do
next.
At breakfast, as I read the news.
Preparing apposite opposite views,
My hackles rise, my fingers clench :
I send a cable to the French
Of whose abilities the most scarce
Is a talent for minding their own
affairs.
Though Opposition-leader, sir,
I act like the Prime Minister ;
As counsel. I’m so hard to budge
That some mistake me for the judge ;
My clients ? Well, all men are
brothers — •
Myself and Labor —maybe others.
In fact, when all is said and done,
I am a legal Four-in-one :
I make the law and bring the charge.
Defend, judge, criticise at large ;
And being so far above the law
It’s no use telling me to withdraw.
So home I go as night comes on
Feeling I’m terribly put-upon,
And thinking how beautiful it will look
When pasted into my cuttings-book :
I can always put up with being put out
If it gives me something to whine
about.
N.S.W,
SWILLIAM.


TN a welfare-centre in one of our “under-
A privileged” suburbs, Ma talked with
me, as a visiting Sister, even as she
cradled a new babe on one arm, and
clutched at a toddler with her free hand.
The nipper looked palely flabby to me;
I suspected a diet predominant in bread
and biscuits. I ventured, “Does he have
any red meat?” “Oh yes,” said Ma.
“What sort,” I asked, “steak?” “Wot!”
Ma shrilled. “The only ones that get
steak in our ’ouse is the Old Man’s racin’
dawgs. But don’t you worry, Sister,
only yesterday ’e done luverly with ’alf
a sav!”—“Sister Ellell.”
❖ *♦*
‘Montrose”: I’m with Melbourne’s
Rev, Irving Benson in his objection to
State-school kids being set an essay on:
“What I would do if I won Tattersall’s.”
That’s been a fighting word to this
generation’s parsons; they could have
been spared the salt on their wounds.
“What would I do if I had £75,000”
would have been just as effective in train-
ing teenagers to express their golden
thoughts in wo^ds; amusing their
teachers; and uncovering any little capi-
talists in embryo.
❖ ♦> 4*4
“Prospector”: Bendigo post-office
“chimes,” is it? A flattering title, indeed!
“Does it carry two?”
Maybe they were stopped during night-
hours on account of Melba, but, as one
who has heard ’em, they could have
been shut down for the 24 hours for mine.
When Bendigo was “on the gold,” and
had three or four foundries and machine-
shops busy, a firm undertook to cast the
bells, good and sound. The mechanism
was installed (a turret-clock job, purely
mechanical), but when the bells were
swung and bolted into position for a
trial run a dreadful clangor floated over
the golden city. Beats me why the respon-
sible parties haven’t put the Bendigo
bells, one by one, in a lathe, so that
they might be turned to true pitch; a
|ob for a skilled bell-tuner with an ear
like a piano-tuner’s.
-ijjf %
“Ceg”: London’s Tube railway
(B. 1/9/’54) has something else to com-
mend, it besides its convenience. When
a review was made of the health of
London children it was found that those
who used the Tube were considerably less
prone to colds and the like, and that
their complexions were better —more
color. This was attributed to the effect
of the ozone introduced into the Tubes to
improve the air.
*l* ❖ ❖
“Mackville”: That poetical statement
by “S.W.K.” (B. 25/8/’54) “Modern
youth can’t raise a thrill from the clash
of sword on svjprd” must admit one
exception—my neighbor’s heir. Recently
he described to me, with much flashing-
eyed enthusiasm and appropriate gesture,
the duel that had thrilled him to the
soles of his stone-bruised feet. Alas that
future generations will never know his
pleasure. Television will write the death-
warrant of the sound-effects man —even
a small boy couldn’t get excited about a
sword-fight if he could see the fraud
clashing a coupl® of table-knives together
while the actors shuffled their feet and
emitted an occasional explosive “Ah!”
£4’ <4 4*4
“Alma”: Odd notices (B. 25/8/’54).
Wellington Arch is the gateway from
the terrific traffic that swirls and con-
verges” at Hyde Park Corner, in London,
and as you walk under the arch (having
first caught the bobby’s eyes, and having
his commanding hand allow you safe
passage) the first thing your eyes light on
is a notice that says “Beware of Riders.”
4*4 4*4
“W.P.T.”; An unusual relic of the
days when highwaymen frequented the
lonely bush at what is now the fashion-
able suburb of Darling Point, Sydney,
can still be seen there. One evening Sir
Thomas Mitchell, who lived at Carthona,
on Darling Point, was driving into Sydney
to attend a dinner when a band of armed
and masked men bailed him up and went
through his pockets. So Mitchell, had
built on a prominent part of the road an
eight-sided tower, later known as “The
Octagon,” a lookout for police. Subse-
quently The Octagon was built on to, but
the original tower can still be plainly
identified. Mitchell died 99 years ago and
was buried in old Camperdown cemetery/
His funeral cortege reached from Darling
Point to the cemetery at Newtown ; it
was described as the largest ever seen in
the colony, with the possible exception
of that of W. C. Wentworth.
4*4 4*4 £4
“Chevrofortd”: Introduction of the
right-hand turn (an old Sydney custom)
gave some Melbourne motorists such a
fright that they left their cars in their
garages on the second day of its inaugur-
ation —the first day resulting in traffic
snarls which beat anything since the
Queen’s visit. I first encountered the
right-hand turn when I drove to Sydney
some years ago and tried to reach Rose-
ville on a sunny Sunday morning. When
I got to the appropriate turn-off, from
sheer fright- my right hand refused to
do its duty; I had to tootle along, a
helpless unit in the procession. After
passing dozens, of side-streets I was
getting further and further from my
destination and had resigned myself to
going on to all eternity when the man
in front of me suddenly stuck his hand
out and swung right. I followed him,
with the sound of crashing brakes and
screeching tyres behind me. Then I
threaded my way back to Roseville by
the side-streets. They breed tough
motorists in Sydney.
“Melb.”: I daresay that in time Mel-
burnians will get acclimatised to their
“Remember that joke We heard yesterday? It's all over town today.”
new right-hand, left-hand, back-hand,
up-hand, down-hand traffic-turn rule,
but how visitors from other States will
ever, come to understand it is more than
I know. At Elizabeth-street intersections
its application has no fewer than four
modifications; to add to the confusion,
there are sets of tram-tracks over which
trams ran once, but don’t run now, and
others where they don’t run now, but will
run in a few months’ time. And how is
the visitor to know that some of those
tracks are relics of the cable-trams,
defunct for 30 years, which have never
been pulled up?
“Benbow”: The mark of the cobbler
and his last can evidently be discerned
by those who, having no knowledge of the
subject, are nevertheless trained editors.
Fellow-scribe “Brick E.” always gets his
pars published as long as they deal with
his trade of bricks; “Wackford” can
rely on publication when he sticks to
schools and schoolmasters; “Gravel-
snatcher” quite evidently has a know-
ledge of Westralia and gets it in. When
I stick to ships and the sea I never fail.
I will fail this time of course—not being
a journalist.
♦♦♦ *x*
“Wavy N.”: Call “Spokeshave” (B.
1/9/’54) to order for using the term
“philatelist” in connection with match-
box tops. The correct term is “phillu-
meny,” from the Greek philos (love)
and the Latin lumen (light). The cult
flourishes in England, where 10,000
differing tops from 65 different nations is
not an unusual effort. Among uncommon
items, the Coronation of Elizabeth II
called for a special box-top, the Japs
earned world-wide censure by produce
ing a box with the Virgin and Child
thereon, and the partition of India and
Pakistan Was commemorated with a
special box. War-time propaganda found
its way on to box-tops, and the disastrous
floods in February, 1953, produced a
special box—Dutch Flood Relief Fund
label. Some people take matches so seri-
ously they have special boxes made for
their personal use; to name a few who
have done so, the Lion of Judah, Eva
Peron and King Farouk. Philatelists and
matchbox tops! Strike a light!
“P.0.M.C.”: The*editor of a London
philatelists’ magazine has discovered an
erroneous watermark (St. Edward’s
Crown instead of Imperial) in British
colonial stamps of 1951 and 1952. It
seems that only one stamp in 1750 of
the issue bears the rare watermark, and,
as several of these would almost certainly
have been damaged or destroyed in com-
mon with the others, the collector-value
of the “wrong-’uns” can be imagined
Should convince even “Sutherland” (B.
18/8/’54) that hopeful scrutiny through
one’s albums and pile of “swaps” might
well be a fascinating labor for a true
addict —worth pursuing even till 4 a.m.,
with or without rum.
i* ❖ ❖
“Bellfield”: The teenagers next to me
in the train were lapping up the details
of the recent New Zealand murder-trial.
Said one, looking up from her paper:
“Did you know he was a doctor, Shirt —
the father of one of the girls?” Shirt
came in with a correction: “Oh, but
he’s not an ordinary doctor, Stell, he’s
one of them clever sort.” Reminded me
of the golfer who was expressing his can-
did opinion of the position his ball had
contrived to squirm itself into, when a
sudden thought struck him. “Er, by the
way, old man,” he asked his opponent,
thoughtfully, “are you a Z>.D. or an
M.D.?”
MUSEUM-PIECE
“For sale: Dinner-bell (antique).”— “S. M.
Herald" advt.
In those more spacious, gracious days
When sideboard-whiskers grew on Pa.
And very rigid whalebone “stays”
Lent that queer hour-glass look to Ma ;
When pants and money both were tight,
One thing invariably befell:
The summons to indulge a bite
Was made in manner to delight:
The ringing of the dinner-bell.
O tintinnabulation sweet
That charmed the ever-waiting ear
With message so refined, discreet,
So unmistakable and clear!
The music that the masters wrought
Has cast on many the magic spell;
Yet is there, of that total, aught
To beat the melody once caught
In tinklings of a dinner-bell?
Where legislator takes his sloth,
Where man a maiden takes to wife,
The bells (the cynic claims) for both
Foreshadow but the coming strife.
Yet who could see disharmony
Where viands yield delicious smell.
Whence erstwhile came the soft decree
To come to dinner or to tea
By voice of little dinner-bell ?
But, tempus fugit; Life’s moved on;
It’s permanently closed, that page.
We’re well across the Rubicon
And into the Atomic Age.
No time now for the niceties;
We get the “Come-and-get-it” yell.
Ah, shed a saline teardrop, please,
For those dead days when there was ease,
And cheerful rang the dinner-bell.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
PRONOUNCING WELSH
pHARLES SHAW’S “Wondering in
Wales” (B. 18/8/’54) paints a sympa-
thetic and commendably accurate picture
of the Principality—that is, apart from
his libellous statement as to the Beddge-
lert pubs, which (as I can vouch for by
personal observation) are supported, in
the off-tourist season, by many more
than four locals each. His hints on the
pronunciation of Welsh place-names,
however, are as deep in the abyss of error
as anything I have ever read, even in
guide-books. „
First of all, Welsh is one of the very
few established languages which enjoy a
completely phonetic script ; once the
sounds of the separate letters (most of
them following international rules) have
been mastered there is no difficulty what-
soever in attaining a near-petfect pro-
nunciation. Emphatically,' “Betseecoid”
is not near enough a sound to describe
that delightful little “Bead House in the
Wood.” Like all other Welsh words,
Bettws-y-coed is pronounced just as it is
printed, the Welsh “w” having the sound
of “oo” in the English “hood,” and “y”
that of “u” in “run.”
“Ff” is not double-f, but a separate
letter, being so printed owing to the limi-
tations of the English type-case. It is pro-
nounced exactly like the English double-1
while the Welsh single-f has the sound of
the English “v,” Nor is “11” a double-l;
there is a knack in pronouncing it, but
the sound is that of an aspirated English
“1.” “Dd” is not double-d ; it is pro-
nounced like “th” in “the.” The Welsh
“d” is as in English, and the Welsh “th”
(again we must blame English type —in
old Welsh script it was a distinct letter)
is always sounded as in “thin.”
The only letter in Welsh which has two
sounds is “y”: at the end of a word or
when followed by a vowel it has the
sound of “i” in “sin”; otherwise, as
mentioned before, it is pronounced like
“u” in “run.”
Had Charles Shaw bought, and
troubled to read, a little pamphlet sold
for 4d. at all Welsh tourist-resorts, I
might have been saved the trouble of
making this comment.
TAFFY.


PERSONAL ITEMS
John Bechervaise is one of Australia’s
most inveterate adventurers and travel-
lers in odd places. His explorations
began when, at 17, he went on a foot-
slog from Geelong to Lake Tarli Karng
with the then Victorian Governor, Lord
Somers. Since then he has pioneered
some strange spots—Federation Peak in
Tasmania, the hitherto-inaccessible Ro-
dondo Island off the Victorian coast, and
the vehicle-route to Ayer’s Rock in the
Never Never. He surveyed the southern
coast of Westralia to the Recherche
Archipelago in an open boat, and has
climbed peaks in Europe, England and
New Zealand. Last year he was in charge
at Heard Island; with meteorologist
Fred Elliott he had a shot at the 9000 ft.
peak of Big Ben, but was driven back by
frostbite. Next month he’s off again—
o.i.e. of Australia’s Antarctic base on
Mawson; with mate Elliott.
• ' •
The Bulletin was invited to meet a
visitor at Mascot overseas terminal at
7.30 on the morning of his arrival from
Singapore. By some mysterious disappear-
ing trick apparently picked up during his
tour of Red China, the visitor had
EX-MAYOR OF STEPNEY
already vanished in the direction of Can-
berra when The Bulletin arrived —ten
minutes before the appointed time.
Artist Red Moore, a sleepless character,
got a lift to Mascot with the milkman
and was thus there in time to see through
the disappearing-trick. By ducking under
coat-tails, peering over shoulders and
almost standing on his head (he used to
be the leading comedian with the Kiwis),
Moore put on such a good performance
that he attracted the fleeting smile and
other clues here recorded.
• ' •
There was at least one old friend wait-
ing to meet Clement Attlee in Melbourne
—Joseph Burke, Professor of Fine Arts at
the University. Burke was private-secre-
tary to Attlee from 1944 to 1946.
• ®
“Macnell”: In every submarine book
read since the war there has been copious
reference to one Ben Bryant. Edward
Young, who wrote the 1000th Penguin,
One of Our Submarines (the best of a
flotilla of them), has Bryant as of “erect
height, seadog beard and arrogant
eye the typical submarine captain of
the public imagination. He had the rare
gift of being able to switch without loss
of dignity from commanding officer to
entertaining messmate,” Though not
jtiaving been in a submarine with him,
I remember Bryant as an officer seconded
for big-ship experience to cruiser Aus-
tralia in the Mediterranean; we knew
little about the quiet, lanky cove, didn’t
even know he was a submariner ; got the
impression, in fact, that he was a bit out
of his depth. But when he got down to
his depth—3oft., periscope-eye searching
—he went on to become possibly the
most famous submarine-commander in
War II — three D.S.O.s and D.S.C. He
was lieutenant-commander in the Aus r
tralia and in Young’s submarine; the
other day he went up to rear-admiral in
her Majesty’s Fleet, his job Director of
Naval Training. Submarines and anti-
submarine craft, stand-by for drill!
• 9.
“X.”: A wave of feminism swept the
Victorian municipal elections, putting
three women into the bunny-skins that
only males had worn before. They are
Cr. Doris Tilson, first woman mayor of
Wangaratta, Cr. Nellie Sheehan, first
woman mayor of Castlemaine, and Mrs.
Maria Dailey, 0.8. E., who was Kew’s
first woman councillor and becomes its
first woman mayor. “Ma” Dailey—as
she is known in the world of architec-
tural wreckers —owns a prosperous yard
in that line in North Melbourne, which
she started when she was widowed after
War I. Two married daughters assist
her in the sort of business which usually
is run by hairy-chested he-men. In 1949
she got an 0.8. E. for her work as a
special magistrate at North Melbourne
Children’s Court, and for her work
amongst the blind and for kindergartens.
She was down on the job the morning
after her election handling scrap and
baulks of timber. She owns one farm at
Bendigo, two in the Wimmera, and has
forest-interests in New Zealand. “A
woman,” she says, “improves the dignity
and tone of a council; the men soon stop
snarling and snapping at one another
and start doing something.” The cup-
board will be “wet” during her term of
office.
• •
“Fitz”: Birthday greetings to essayist Pro-
fessor Walter Murdoch, who will be 80 next
Friday (September 17). He was born at Pitsligo,
a little fishing village on that part of the coast
of Scotland that looks straight up to the North
Pole —“Our chief recreation in winter was
watching shipwrecks.” As a schoolboy in
Australia Walter Murdoch was “entirely undis-
tinguished,” except that at Scotch College, Mel-
bourne, in old Dr. Morrison’s day, he won a
prize for an essay on Australian Federation
(“I don’t know what my arguments for Federa-
tion were, but they were probably fallacious.”)
In 1898, being then a schoolmaster, married,
he wondered if any money was to be made by
writing, and sent to Melbourne “Argus” an
article on Australian poets, which was pub-
lished. For a few years he collected rejection-
slips, but his attack proved better than the
“Argus” defences, and in 1904 he was invited
to write a regular column on books. Then he
obtained a lectureship in English Literature at
Melbourne University, and seven years later (in
1912) was appointed Professor of English at
the University of W.A-, which appointment he
held for 27 years. He afterwards became
chancellor.
What he always placed first was his university
teaching; his writing, after it, to keep the wolf
from the door, has always been a recreation.
Which is not to say that there is anything of
the amateur about his essays. Devoid of any
affectations, they are warm and understanding,
with a genial interest in human nature.
Old students speak of the inspiration of his
conversation and company. “He had,” said
Leslie Rees, “the gift of ready sympathy with
the studentry, of even joining them in a frolic.”
He even composed (anonymously) many amus-
ing song-skits sung by students at Graduation
Day celebrations. Murdoch has published,
besides his many books of essays, primers and
histories, a biography of Alfred Deakin.
He edited The Oxford Book of Australasian
Verse and, with Henrietta Drake-Brockman, for
the Oxford World Classics, an anthology of
Australian short stories.
• ft
“Mullum”: Salvation Army Captain
Bernard Ayers, who lately settled in
Ballina (N.S.W.), can claim an inter-
national family; his four children were
born successively in Asia, Europe, South
America and Australia. Ayers, who,
speaks Dutch fluently, came to Australia
from Dutch Guiana; he met and mar-
ried hi£" wife, who is a Canadian, while
serving with the R.A.F. in India.
• •
9
“Waddlin’ Willie”; Host to 24 bush
kids from the Gulf of Carpentaria during
their recent visit to Cairns (Q.), Alderman
V. H. Jensen could as easily pass for a
cattle-drover or station rouseabout as the
hard-working blacksmith he is, giving his
spare time to earing for nippers coming
to the coast under Queensland’s Bush
Children’s Health Scheme. One of the
best-known citizens of the North, he is
deputy-mayor and deputy-chairman of
the Cairns Harbor Trust, and claims to
be the oldest (at 68) smithy north of
Capricorn. He served his time along-
side the bellows at the turn of the cen-
tury, when gold-findings promised to
make North Queensland one of the rich-
est areas in Australia. A.L.P. ticket
goes back to 1907; A.E.U. membership
to 1914.
• •
A man who’s been very closely in
touch with the public is Victor Francis
Turner —he registered manpower in War
11, issued ration-books, and for the past
20 years, while politicians have come and
gone, he has been Chief Electoral Officer
for the Commonwealth. A year more than
half a century in the Public Service (start-
ing as telegraph-messenger), he hails from
near Glen Innes CM.S.W.). The day
before his 65th birthday he retired to his
bowls. / ' •
To take over the Queensland Sym-
phony Orchestra, Rudolph Pekarek,
wide-eyed and sensitive-faced, told The
Bulletin that he is happy to be in a
country where people enjoy untrammelled
personal and intellectual freedom. A
Czech,’he was imprisoned by the Ger-
mans, escaped and joined the liberation
movement. When all that was over (as
he thought) came the Communists. So
Pekarek packed his baton and headed
for Australia, “where you hear footsteps
outside and you know it is the milkman.”
Back home he was founder and director
of the Film-Concert-Opera Orchestra of
Prague in the days before his country
was Iron Curtained. He studied at
Prague Conservatorium under Professor
Tulich, who preceded Kubelik as con-
ductor of the Prague Philharmonic. He
lets his hair down with symphonic jazz
on occasion.
“G. Elburg”: Charles Diamond,
widely known banker-stockbroker, who
passed on in Perth (B. 1 / 9/’54), was truly
a fellow of infinite jest. He was a close
friend of J. MacCallum Smith (of Perth
“Sunday Times” and J. E. Webb
memoirs), who delighted to entertain
people of all shades of political opinion
at The Lodge, a commodious cabin he
built at Lake Preston, south of Perth.
When delegates to the Empire Press
Union conference of 1925 visited Perth,
Smith invited some of them —Lord Burn-
ham, “Daily Telegraph” proprietor,
among them—to dine at The Lodge.
Burnham was keen on tasting kangaroo-
tail soup for the first time; Smith sent
Diamond and his henchman and
honorary cook at The Lodge, Burgess, on
ahead with instructions to slay a Too and
do the necessary with its tail. It was a
blazing February day; Diamond said he
was blowed if he would go Too-hunting.
On Burgess, fearful of the wrath of his
chief, protesting, Diamond assured him
that the soup would be ready. He opened
a tin of bully-beef, put the meat in a
saucepan with sprigs of gumleaves, boiled
the mass for a few hours, then strained
the incriminating solids away. The Eng-
lish visitors were enthusiastic, especially
Burnham, who declared the soup was
even more delicious than he had antici-
pated. Diamond accepted the encomiums
without turning a hair. Burgess turned
purple.
• •
“Gambit”; That field of medical
research which hunts out new antibiotics
functions thoroughly yet unobtrusively.
Mostly the work is a continuous round
of laborious routine. . Sometimes there
is success. Miss Nancy Atkin-
son, of the Adelaide University
Bacteriology Department, has unearthed
(literally) a useful antibiotic after a
lengthy examination of extracts of indi-
genous mushrooms. The new antibiotic
will be effective against infections like
boils and gastro-enteritis in children.
• 9
Herewith Melbourne’s new Lud
Mayor, Frank Selleck, whose throne was
momentarily threatened when a sharp
division within the corps of Bumbles
between Labor and ndn-Labor produced
a rival in Cr. Bernard Evans. New in-
cumbent is a 58-year-old accountant,
company secretary and movie executive,
who has interests in various theatres and
has been a City Father since 1949.
NEW MAYOR OF MELBOURNE
Major with the 24th Battalion in War I,
he emerged with M.C. and has devoted
a lot of his attention to the post-war
welfare of Diggers and their families.
State Treasurer to the R.S.L., he gave
Legacy its name at its foundation, as
well as a lot of his time. Born at
Nathalia (Vic.); chief civic interest get-
ting things undone done.
Westralia’s new Auditor-General, C. P.
Mathea, takes charge of the department
in which, in 1924, he was accountant.
Among other elevated posts, he’s been
chairman of the Wheat Products Com-
mission, and, since 1941, Prices Control
Commissioner in Westralia. Recreates
with auditing his garden products.
Making a veritable mayors’-nest of
the page, MERVYN JOHN
ANDERSON, mayor of Too-
woomba, and the only Queens-
lander to win the Australian Grand
Prix of motor-cycle racing.
“Metralia”: Charles Denton, retiring
Chief Stipendiary Magistrate, was fare-
welled by 200 law-men at a dinner in
Sydney. Hailing from the Tumut
(N.S.W.) district, father of P. Denton, the
international pole-vaulter, C.D. was pre-
sented with a silver salver, and, striking
a note of unexpected exoticism in so staid
a gathering, a mammoth bowl of orchids.
He made a speech of thanks, filled with
wit of the traditional legal dryness. Per-
haps there’s a certain piquancy in
addressing 200 completely silent lawyers
after a quarter-century’s listening to
them. Of tenancy cases he said: “They
once seldom took more than five
minutes ; they now seldom take less than
five hours, often five days.” So much
for the landlord’s heyday.
ft •
A Bulletin man on holiday in Lon-
don was possibly the last Australian to
see Arthur Riscoe on the stage. This was
at Chiswick Empire, one of London’s
best-known suburban theatres, where
Riscoe was Pepys in “And So to Bed,”
and lacked none of that pep and sense
of comedy which made him so popular
in Australia in the ’twenties. A few
weeks later Riscoe was dead, at 57. His
real name was Boorman. He emigrated
to Australia at 15, joined the first A.1.F.,
won an M.C., and after the war- joined
a concert-party. In 1919 he first appeared
in England in “The Lilac Domino” and
thereafter was a well-known Thespian.
His appearance in a film, “The Girl from
Vienna,” caused a Nazi audience in
Munich in 1934 to start a riot. They
mistook him for a Jew—he had the nose
for it.
• •
Into the Silence: — #
At 74, in Melbourne, Mrs. Alda Maud
Bendall, whose five daughters and three sons,
under her tutelage, became musically successful.
She toured Tasmania and New Zealand in her
youth with concert-parties.
At Balwyn (Vic.), at 79, Bishop Gerard J.
Vesters, a Hollander who had practised
Chritsianity from Holland to Brazil, from the
Celebes to New Britain. Vicar Apostolic of
Rabaul from 1923 to 1939, when he retired,
he was awarded 0.8. E. for humanitarian work
after Matupi blew-up there in 1937. Lately
he had been living in Melbourne, his main
concern helping Dutch migrants.
In London, at 42, Aleksandr Helmann, one-
time child prodigy who reached the eminence
of the virtuosi, and stayed there. Bora
in Russia, he had been on the piano-concert
platform, except for a period of education-
polishing, since he was a boy; yet he still
retained an obvious shyness before an audience.
His playing, as noted on his tour of Australia
in 1949, was characterised by a remarkable
degree of nervous energy; illness caused his
abandoning of the concert platform after that
tour, when he settled down to composing on
a farm he had bought in England.
At Ballarat, 4 'Oswald J. M. Coghlan, chairman
of the Ballarat Brewing Co., president ot
Ballarat Thrf Club, leading figure in racing
thereabouts for half a century. His father
founded Ballarat’s first brewery just? on 100
years ago. It was amalgamated with others
to form the present concern, of which the son
became chairman in 1938.
In Sydney, at 59, Knight Claude Plowman, one
of the best-known of Australian blue-water
yachtsman. Tasmanian, scion of an old family
there, he was mainly responsible for initiating
the Sydney-Hobart yacht-race in 1945, and m
his cutter Morna was first across the finishmg-
line three years running. Wide business mterests
took in rubber, food and oil-engines. He als
founded, in Sydney, the Airzone radio-factory.


MOTIFS


ABORIGINALITIES
IjABBITS on the Nullarbor have be-
come educated. In that arid region,
where they must have a terrific struggle
to survive periods of prolonged drought,
I have seen the rodents in hundreds con-
verge on the railway-station at Cook and
crouch beside the line waiting for the
train to arrive. When it did there would
be a mad scramble to get beneath the
outlets of the carriage wash-basins to
drink the water as it flowed to waste
beside the tracks, though the more expert
sat up, tilted back their heads and gulped
it as it descended. —“C.A.L.”
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: I suppose there are still a
few professional whip-makers living, but
I’ve never met one since Old Tom died.
What a master he was! An artist in
kangaroo-skin, for no other leather, he
always insisted, was its equal. Maybe
they have machines to plait the lOft.-long
stockwhips these days, but I doubt
whether a machine could match the easy
speed of those bony, flexible fingers;
and I’m sure it could not turn out such a
flawless job. Yet the old chap’s complete
equipment was a “bench” —a huge pack-
ing-case turned on its side —and a knife
made from a broken-off hacksaw-blade
ground to a keen edge, its “handle” a
piece of black friction-tape bound around
one end. “The only knife that will keep
an edge,” he always declared. And his
knives certainly needed an edge to glide
through tanned Too-hide. I often
watched and marvelled as he cut down
strip after strip, straight as a plumb-
string and micrometer-exact to the width
he wanted. A gauge? Yes, he used one
--a leather-calloused thumb held at the
required distance from the
blade as he drew it down
the skin.
♦ ♦ ♦
“Chuck”: Up behind
the old hut there’s a wal-
nut-tree from a generation
or so back. The nuts are
thimble-size, and success-
fully defy such things as
boot-heels, pocket - knives
and fence-posts, and when
one bothers with a couple
of hunks of granite he’s
only minutely rewarded.
Every year the rats collect
the nuts into the floor or
roof of the hut and leave
heaps of empty shells. They
don’t open them where
the halves join, nor at the
thinner stem-end. Instead,
the shells all show a neat
hole chewed through the
. opposite end where the
casing is thickest. I’ve
known rats chew through
the inch-thick wood of a
wool-press, but even that
wouldn’t be in it with these
walnut-shells. Boring a
line of new fence-posts lately and
lamenting the frailties of modern steel,
I wonder will one see the day when he
can buy a few half-inch bits made from
rats’ teeth!
* * * *
“D. Rover”: I should say that the
oldest-established routine incidental to
the droving of cattle —and one born of
necessity—is the “pint-pot wash.” On
a dry camp—and all overlanding camps
are dry in W.Q. —the morning wash takes
the form of a splash over the face with
what water two cupped hands will hold.
Your cobber acts as valet, pouring the
precious ration. If things are really good
two fills of the hands are permitted,
amounting to a comparatively luxurious
bath. If nobody else is about at the time
a man does it on his own, by holding the
pint-pot between his knees and tilting the
contents into his cupped hands. To do
that without spilling a drop calls for
practised skill.
“A couple o’ good Australian cattle-dogs 'd put half these flash
blokes out of a job!”
“Sebak”: Surprised when I heard a
four-ten shotgun referred to as a “Point,
four-one,” I’m now satisfied the speaker
was right. Why do gunsmiths carry on
a definition which is contrary to the laws
of mathematics? Calibres, of course, are
measured in decimals, and although the
decimal-point is dropped for convenience
of expression, there could be no objec-
tion to a rifle being called a “twenty-two”
or even a “three-oh-three” (though the
odd three-thousandths of an inch is get-
ting pretty exact), but “.410” can’t be
right, since a nought at the right of a
decimal figure has no value. Very heavy
express-rifles (for big-game shooting)
carry on the redundancy. There are ,560
and .570 and the heaviest-calibred rifle
“ Ba-a-a-a !”
made (excepting, perhaps, the anti-tank
bazooka) is a .600. Still, even a rein-
carnated Freud would be scratching his
head to fathom out the mental processes
of a fraternity which designates a small
shotgun as a .410, but gives a bigger
variety no calibre decimal at all, bestow-
ing on it, instead, the universal monicker
of “twelve-gauge.”
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”; Glass bottles can cause
fires. Cutting wood 100yds. away, we
were startled by loud reports from the
camp. Investigating, we found that a
box of .22 bullets had been exploding. A
little more Sherlock Holmes stuff told
us; A half-full water-bottle, acting as
a powerful burning-glass, had ignited the
cardboard container and then detonated
the contents. In their refractory course
through the bottle the fierce little sun-
men had also gained access to and com-
pletely ruined a good watch. We experi-
mented with our glass fire-stick, and at
a certain angle a scorching convergence
of light quickly fused any combustible
material. We could only conjecture how
many fires, city, town or bush, had been
caused in similar fashion by the discarded
empties of a thirsty continent.
* * * *
“O’Johnno”: Something along the
lines of “Bihugas fuel,” which German
scientists have produced from vegetable-
waste (B. 11/8/’54), was used as the
first effective mode of gas-lighting for
Launceston (Tas.). In 1844, Benjamin
Byrons, of the. Angel Inn, devised a
scheme for utilising garbage of every
description, in a plant constructed for
his own use. The gas thus manufactured
provided lighting for the whole of his
premises, and was apparently quite satis-
factory. It was not until. 14 years later
that the Launceston Gas Company
erected its works (for production of coal-
gas). Street-lighting by gas came in in
1860, and continued for 35 years until the
City Council put in the State’s first elec-
tric plant, harnessing the waters of the
South Esk. Launceston was the first city
in Australia, by the way, to supply elec-
tricity as a public utility with a hydraulic
plant.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Dustman”: The W.A. Government
survey-party in the Kimberleys has found
a native rock-carving of a figure with a
halo around its head, and with a face
in which the eyes are depicted,* but which
has no mouth. That’s typical of native
art in that region. When Gray explored
the valley of the Prince Regent River
in 1837 he met unexpected native oppo-
sition of a fanatical nature near the head-
waters of the river; and further on, near
2800 ft. Mt. Hann, one of the highest
points of the Kimberley plateau, he found
a cave with native paintings which are
unique in Australian aboriginal art. Some
of the figures are hawk-headed, like some
of the Ancient Egyptian deities; but the
dominant form is the human figure with
a halo and no mouth. The other facial
features are depicted in detail, even to
eyelashes, and at least one has an in-
scription in what may be an unknown
language. The haloed, mouthless figures
are thought to represent the sky-god
Wondjina, the haloes being rainbows;
but there’s no explanation of the absence
of mouths. Another point. There are
five colors in the paintings: red, yellow,
black, white and blue. The reds and
yellows are ochres, the black is charcoal,
the white pipeclay, and the blue is
thought to be a vegetable-dye. With that
range of colors there was scope for both
imagination and realism, yet all the faces
are white. Indicating white artists?
* * * *
HEARD COLOR
TF I have to cross the Nullarbor on foot
to do it, it’s the axe and fire-stick for
the first artist who paints Heard Island
as a barren waste.
Not that Heard isn’t barren: nothing
grows there except moss and some coarse
grass: but what a wealth of magnificent
color has been lavished on that tiny speck
of icy land!
I was out of bed between four and
five every morning for nearly twelve
months, and never tired of wandering
around the hummocks near camp, and
along the beach, gazing up at the tower-
ing dome of Big >Ben, and along the
glacier-clad coast towards Spit Bay to
watch the sun rise.
A deep purple horizon edged at the
sea with a pulsating ribbon of fire —the
purple fading through every shade of blue
until, at the zenith, it had changed to
a delicate pale-green—the atmosphere
around the mountain glowing, vibrating,
with the reflected blues and greens of the
glaciers, marching to the sea like ragged*
lines of infantry. Then a single flash
of red light spearing from the east to
catch the top of Big Ben and splash
down the long, crooked ridges, running
free like molten lava, before the sun
heaved itself above the sea and flooded
the island with light, sparking blue fire
from every pinnacle and ridge of ice.
That was in summer. In winter there
wasn’t much light, but the hurricane
winds would keep an adventurous artist
happy, if he could hang on to his canvas.
Giant seas charging down Atlas Cove
with a furious wind urging them on,
waves 30ft. high, each one flying a twist-
ing pennant of freezing spray, swamping
on to the beach, making a miniature sea
of the flats with waves and currents of its
own —a sudden freeze grasping the island,
catching waves in every fantastic move-
ment and pattern.
I’ve seen winds so powerful that huge
rollers, with all the force of the ocean
behind them, couldn’t get ashore, but
were forced back to sea in a welter of
shrieking foam —and out of the mael-
strom a lone penguin battling its way
ashore, to be knocked flat by the wind
as soon as it stood up. And through it
all the giant petrels soaring high along
the cliff-tops and skidding through the
troughs, wingtips almost touching the
water.
A watercolorist would come back
from Heard with a show that would have
Australian artists scurrying south like
rabbits, forgetting the deserts and slums
and even the Yarra Valley.
C.J.
WHAT’S THAT YOU SAY?
“All done with strings and mirrors,” they tell
me;
“You’ve got to be in it to win it,” they say;
“Who’s robbing this coach, you or Ned Kelly?”
“Who’ll stop me; you and who else?” they
demand.
I hear the people talking poetry,
and wonder should I throw my pen away.
“There are more ways than one of killing a
“Sydney or the bush,” and “What’s the odds?”
they say;
“Game as Ned Kelly,” and “Having a Jimmy
Woodser,”
“My chance and Buckley’s,” “Seen my last
gumtree”:
I hear the people talking poetry,
and wonder should I throw my pen away.
“One up for the books,” and “One in kitty,”
“He’s the man who dug the Murray,” they
explain;
“Humping the bluey,” and “Waltzing Matilda,”
“Doing a perish” and “Up at piccaninny-
daylight,” they say.
I hear the people talking poetry,
and wonder should I throw my pen away.
• ,
“You’v6 got to be. up before the magpies to
catch him,”
“Fair go, spinner,” and “They’re in the air,”
they shout;
“Free of sense as a frog is of feathers,”
and “Flat out, like a lizard drinking,” they say.
I hear the people talking poetry,
and know that I should throw my pen away.
S.A,
IAN MUDIE.


m
m
S 3
Af
THE
ASPRO SHOW
Compered by
PAT HODGINS
There are laughs and prizes galore every Monday, Wednesday and , Thursday
morning when that favourite of the Housewives^—“The Aspro Show"—takes the
air. There’s cash or valuable merchandise to be won, plus a complete wardrobe
worth £l5O for each daily winner of the “Glamor Girl Quiz.” listen, too, for the
good turn of the day in this wonderful half-hour compered by Pat Hodgius every
Monday, Wednesday and Thursday at 9.30 a.m. 0n....
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN
2NX 2NM (9 a.m. on SDN)
MACQUARIE
SERVICE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
KEROSENE
m >
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
'★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON |i PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
WE were camped on a billabong under
’ a big gum-tree, and a last-quarter
moon was rising about three o’clock on a
cool, crisp morning. From the branches
above a black-and-white feathered min-
strel rolled a marble around his mouth
and carolled cryptically on a lilting scale:
“Dirndl talk, calla tomahawk, also Don-
ald Duck.” Rest ~ . . Encore. Repeat.
It was his full repertoire. He left us
before daybreak, but we could hear him
in the distance still water-bubbling his
one masterpiece What was he, my Chris-
tian friends? —“Quo Vadis,”
♦ * * *
“E.W.R.”: There is another explana-
tion for the two horses playing with that
stick which rules out “C.W.J.’s” theory
that he’d witnessed a rare form of equine
courtship (B. 18/8/’54). The ancestors
of the horse were winged creatures
(Pegasus was the last of them), and with
other birds they sought a perch at night-
fall. As the species grew bigger, perches
of suitable length became harder to find,
so the leader of the equine mob used a
yardstick to measure likely roosting-
places. This was known as “ruling the
roost” and became the prerogative of
the ruling-class. In the event of a dis-
pute as to horsepower, the contestants
indulged in mild horseplay and trod a
measure together.' That’s all there was to
those neddies that puzzled “C.W.J.”
« * * «
“J. 8.”: Grace Bussell, Australia’s Grace
Darling (B. 4/8/’54), married in the ’Bo’s
Frederick Slade Brockman, who later
became Surveyor-General of W.A. He,
too, distinguished himself during a ship-
wreck off the Westralian coast, when the
ship in which he was travelling ran
aground in a violent storm. With a com-
panion, Brockman rowed a small boat to
a near-by island (at night), and rigged
up a lifeline by which everyone managed
to get ashore.
* * * *
“E.S.L.”: Though possibly not identi-
cal with those referred to by “H.A.L.”
(B. 29/7/’54), baskets contrived with
twisted cords of grass-fibre are still made
by aborigines in the N.T. In my pos-
session is a small basket, about 6in. in
diameter, made by the natives who
roamed the New England (N.S.W.) dis-
trict a century ago. Jacky and Black
Rosie and their progeny often called at
Rangers’ Valley station for “tea and
tucker” when my grandfather was man-
ager, and the basket was a natal gift to
my mother. It is beautifully made of
reeds or shreddjed rushes woven in a
hexagonal pattern with great accuracy.
In spite of its age, it’s still in excellent
condition.
* ♦ * ♦
“Baksac”: “W.P.T.” was right in say-
ing that David Lennox built the Lapstone
“Oh— that's to stop her drifting."
Bridge before the Lansdowne (B.
25/8/’54), but it wasn’t a “similar
bridge.” Lapstone has a semicircular
arch, Lansdowne a semi-elliptical, Len-
nox had a strong liking for the latter
type —a design adapted from a bridge
built under his foremanship at Glou-
cester (Eng.), it in turn having been pat-
terned from a bridge over the Seine at
Neuilly. ' Lennox’s biggest bridge,
another semi-elliptical arch, crossed the
Yarra in a 150 ft. span and was kpown as
Prince’s Bridge. In 1884, however, the
river’s channel was widened considerably
and the bridge had to be demolished.
Incidentally, Lennox served his appren-
ticeship as a stonemason —one of those
rare architects who could not only draw
what he wanted but could also do the
job hjmself.
* * * *
“Ted the Taipan”: “B. A. Ker” (B.
4/8/’54) asks the reason far the affinity
for yodelling between the Swiss and the
Mt. Hagen (New Guinea) natives. I
heard it explained this way. The reson-
ance of sheer bare mountains approxi-
mates the conditions set up in any large
auditorium when empty of cash-custo-
mers ; therefore, if a person were to
stand on the stage and another person
stood in the body of the empty hall,' and
they endeavored to carry on a loud con-
versation with each other, the words
would be jumbled by the echoes coming
back from the walls. But if the voice were
to be changed quickly from high to low
pitch, as in yodelling, the conversation
would become clear. This phenomenon
is due to the eardrums being able to dis-
tinguish between the variable echoes in
much the same way as the excitor-lamp
does on a film sound-track.
* * * *
“Sack’: That oven treatment to get a
new axe-handle into the head (B.
25/8/’54) can spell trouble for a man,
and not only from an enraged spouse.
Actually, it is wrong to drive a handle
on to its head. Correct procedure is to
thin the handle down till the head can
» be fitted on with very little force ; this
gives the wood enough “play” to spread
when the wedge is driven down the saw-
cut. A dovetail is thus formed on the
extreme end of the handle, making it an
impossibility for the head to fly off. Axes,
by the way, have been flying off their
handles since the days of the Old Testa-
ment, Accidental death from such a
mishap is mentioned in Deuteronomy, the
wielder of the tool being exonerated
from blame,
* * * *
“Market”; Oh, “H.G.L.,” how
could you say the plain turkey is a
second-rater at doing the ’hoppers over
(B. 18/8/’54)? As kids we weren’t con-
versant with legal issues, and used to be
pop-eyed onlookers at the “drawing” of
our turkey-dinners-elect by our home
butcher, the Pandora-box of fascination
being the gizzard. How well we remem-
ber this enlarged and distended container,
packed tight as a drum with ’hoppers of
all shapes and sizes, the conglomerate
contents testifying mutely to the stupidity
of man the fool, who wantonly destroyed
his benefactor. As to “edibility,” our
“chef” had a special method of cook-
ing the wild turkey, which left nothing
to be desired, in my gastronomic
memory. Apparently there are numer-
ous descendants of that chef and his pro-
visioner abroad in the land at this hour,
covertly carrying their tawdry and obso-
lete slogan; “Well eat today, and to
hell with the ’hoppers!”
* * * *
“Archaen”: One of the great astro-
nomical puzzles waj the notion that all
the spiral nebulae —island-universes like
our own —seemed to be moving away
from each other. Now the 200 in. Hale
telescope on Mt. £alomar has unearthed
evidence which suggests that all the spiral
nebulae are revolving around some
central point in creation. To grasp the
full implication we must realise that an
atom is built up of a central core around
which particles revolve. The solar
system has a sun as its centre, around
which planets and asteroids revolve, with
centrifugal force in exact balance with
gravitational attraction. Our solar system
is a speck in countless millions of others
like it, all revolving around some central
point, making up a spiral nebula. There
are countless millions of similar nebulae
out in space, now shown to be revolving
around a centre. .
GORSE
Gorse on the hillside,
Gorse on the hill,
Yellow where winds ride,
Where the scents till.
Brilliant and burning,
Flame o’er the grass,
Climbing and turning,
Where the clouds pass:
Gorse that goes scrambling
On and away,
Rolling and rambling.
Lighting the day
Over hillock and hollow,
Like waves of the sea,
Where fences follow,
Straggling and free;
Gorse brightly flowing
Where the quail hide,
Finches go blowing
In the wind’s tide:.
Gorse on the hilltop,
Gorse in the sky,
Gorse where the fields stop
Ere they go by.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


V
One of the
best hands
about the
place
A “Dangar-Gem” equipped as a two unit
milker will milk 20 or more cows an hour
with ease.
For segregating part of your herd, for stud
cattle or for small herds you can have all
the advantages of machine milking without
costly installation by using
DANGAR-GEM
Use it anywhere on the farm, in the milking
sheds, in a bail or even in the paddock and
save time, money and drudgery.
Full details from
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 Young Street, Circular Quay, Sydney
P.O. Box 509 Phone: 8U5095
Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore. Wagga
and Hay
SMD.IB.
ADD WITH
ONE FINGER
—fast and accurately
Why waste your time and energy in tedious adding up, and
risk making costly errors? With this amazing high-speed
Adding Machine you can reduce the brain-fag of adding figures
to a one-finger operation—and get right answers every timel
è
personal portable ADDING MACHINE
can be mastered in five minutes. Over I 3,000 are already in
use in Australia. Businesses of every kind—big and small-
farmers, professional men, find Contex a life-saver. Contex
adds in whole numbers, £ s. d., decimals, weights and
measures. It will take the burden of “figure-work” off your
shoulders for a mere
£23/10/-
Handsome carrying
case, 55/- extra
Write to
SYDNEY:
169 Liverpool St.
ADELAIDE:
29 Grenfell St.
CHARTRES
MELBOURNE:
375 Collins St.
PERTH:
E.
Ltd.
BRISBANE:
256-278 Wickham St.,
Valley
Also at:
HOBART, LAUNCESTON,
DEVONPORX
Business. Rollery. Etc.
The Higher Dividends
r pHE forecasts made here —as
-*■ long as 10 months ago—of
higher dividends for 1953-54 are
being amply borne out by results.
The benefit of the Federal Gov-
ernment’s company-tax reduc-
tions in the 1953-54 Budget and
a generally busier trading year,
with comparatively stable costs,
have enabled the majority of
companies to show their best
profits on record. Though it
may well be argued that it is
high time Australian industry
did begin to show satisfactory
earnings, in view of the damage
inflation has done to dividend-
returns over the past 15 years of
price-control and heavy taxation,
it has been encouraging to
investors to see a real change for
the better during the past term.
Also, dividends in their hands
are now subject to personal-
exertion tax-rates, instead of the
heavier property rates of a year
ago.
The increases in dividends have
ranged through ,a variety of
stocks of differing market status.
Leaders like Tooth, Edwards
Dunlop and A.C.I. have lifted
their rates, while B.H.P. and
C.S.R. have decided otherwise.
Among a multitude of second-
and third-line stocks there have
been some very satisfactory
increases. A number of balance-.
sheets have still to come.
So far, so good. Some change
is now taking place in prospects
for our basic export industries,
and there is pressure on the avail-
ability of labor and materials.
But if costs can be kept stable
over the next 12 months many
essential manufacturing indus-
tries should have another good
year. However, consumer-
credit concerns and those distri-
butors depending on their
facilities may find that a high-
water-mark has been just about
reached* for the present.
• .
Australian Woollen Mills
Allotment - notices were
promptly issued to those who
were successful in their applica-
tions for some of the 200,000
new £1 ords. issued at a premium
of 10s. each by the Australian
Woollen Mills, Ltd. First Stock
Exchange sales of the scrip were
at 355., with buyers still offering
that figure.
The co. makes Crusader
worsteds at Marrickville (Sydney)
and controls the Stamina cloth-
ing enterprise. Greasy wool is
bought at auction, and it is
sorted, blended, scoured, carded,
combed, spun, woven, dyed and
finished in the co.’s factory.
Today A.W.M. is, “if not the
largest, one of the largest weavers
of worsted cloth in Australia.”
The mills were established by
the Longworth family in July,
1908. The plant started at
Marrickville in April, 1909, and
the first dividend was paid for
the year 1911. The co, has not
failed to make a profit or pay a
dividend in all the years since.
It has recently bought a 12-acre
mill-site at Unanderra, near
Wollongong, where a new
factory-building is being erected
to provide for further expansion.
There are other freeholds at
Wollongong and Albion Park,
The 10s. premium charged by
Australian Woollen Mills goes to
reserves, and, after the issue, net
tangible backing will amount to
345. 9d. for each ord. share, on
the basis of figures up to Sep-
tember 30 last year. Average
annual net profits over the last
five years, allowing for prefs,,
represent 21.2 p.c. on the
increased ordinary capital. A
10 p.c. dividend has been spoken
of, though the new issue will not
participate in the 1953-54 profits.
Paid capital, including the new
money, is now £1,464,000, all
except £208,000 of it (8 p.c.
prefs.) in ,ord. shares. Prior to
the recent conversion from a
proprietary to a public co. paid
capital was £600,000 in ords.
Then £261,000 of tax-free profits
was capitalised, after which
195,000 ords. and 208,000 prefs.
were issued in exchange for all
the shares in Stamina Clothing
Co. Pty., Ltd. There was a
revaluation of freeholds in 1951,
and a bonus issue of £196,696
made. In 1939 plant had been
revalued, and “a portion” of
£125,094 credited to assets-
revaluation reserve was capi-
talised.
Notwithstanding these revalua-
tions and capitalisations, all
fixed assets, including those of
the Stamina concern, were valued
at only £843,211 at last balance-
day, when the other principal
asset stock stood at
£1,061,282- Assuming, as the
prospectus indicates, that the co.
has an output of worsteds at least
equal to that of the other major
manufacturers in Australia, these
figures are low by comparison,
and suggest that they are valued
well on the conservative side.
Since 1939 provision for depre-
ciation on plant has been
£112,083 in excess of that allowed
by income-tax purposes, includ-
ing special initial depreciation
allowance.
Debtors and prepayments are
around a million; investments
(mostly Consols), after .deduct-
ing a £20,000 reserve, stand at
£187,310. Outside liabilities total
£533,966, apart from provision
for income-tax (£386,441) and
divs. payable (£72,000).
Harold Longworth, managing-
director, says he is confident that
the book-value of plant, fixtures
and real-estate “is considerably
below replacement-value. They
have been fully maintained in
good order and condition, and,
where necessary, replaced by
modern automatic machines or
reconditioned and converted to
automatic machines from time to
time.” He suggests that in the
future there may be a reversion
to the keen competition that
existed before the war, but that
this should not prevent the
efficient organisation of each
company from maTcing reason-
able profits. The new money
being raised (£300,000) can be
employed profitably in the busi-
ness, Mr. Longworth says.
The company has all the
indications of having been built
up with ploughed-back earnings
over a long period, with conse-
quent inner strength in book-
values, and with an efficient and
progressive management. Capi-
talisation of the enterprise (in
relation to output) is low by
comparison with others in the
industry, and the shares are
attractive buying if they can be
got at 355. to yield 5| p.c. Even
if the co. reverts to its former
practice of providing deprecia-
tion in excess of the tax-schedule
(the 21.4 p.c. profits-average was
subject to some depreciation
readjustments) there appears to
be ample cover for the proposed
10 p.c. dividend.
Westralian Oil, Ltd.
The issue of 6,691,000 ss.
shares (payable 2s. on applica-
tion, and the rest in calls be-
tween January and June, 1955)
by Westralian oil, Ltd., was over-
subscribed by the public.
Already 9000 shares had been
taken by original shareholders.
And 2,400,000 shares are held
under option by the Esperance
011 Syndicate, Ltd., payable in
cash, while 900,000 shares are to
be issued to the same concern,
to be paid for out of a vendor’s
cash consideration of £225,000.
The 18,000-square-mile oil-
permits which Westralian Oil
has acquired from Esperance Oil
“ Don't handle the fruit , lady!”
Syndicate are those numbered
69H and 70H, and include about
7000 square miles of the southern
portion of the Desert Basin area
of W.A., roughly 500 miles due
east of Rough Range, The
westernmost permit adjoins those
held by Australasian Oil
Exploration, and on the northern
side W.A. Petroleum permits
abut.
H. W. B. Talbot, formerly a
W.A. Government field geologist,
says that the Carboniferous
formation is along the northern
boundaries, while the southern
portion (11,000 square miles) is
occupied by granite and Pre-
Cambrian sediments. He recom-
mends the northern area for
closer geological and geophysical
survey, and suggests that south
of Lake Dora should be the first
place in which to conduct a
seismic survey for the purpose
of selecting a site for a test-bore.
The co. intends to keep a look-
out for other prospecting areas.
The prospectus is a matter-of-
fact document, and makes no
rosy promises or even allusions.
There is very little to be said
about the permit areas yet. The
co.’s office is in Perth; brokers
to the issue were members of the
Perth Stock Exchange and a
selected broker id each other
capital.
Western Stores
Operating a number of
department - stores in rural
N.S.W., with the chief ones in
Orange and Bathurst, Western
Stores and Edgleys, Ltd., is
rpaking a one-for-two bonus issue
(out of property-revaluation) and
a one-for-five cash issue at par.
The combination of the issues
presents a rather complex
problem of establishing the
present value of the shares, cum
rights. But if the intending
purchaser anticipates continuance
of the 15 p.c. div. and wants a
6 p.c. return he can pay up to
81s. (including brokerage) for
the shares. If he is content with
5 p.c. he may go to 98s.
Last sale of the shares was at
735. Buyers are.offering 735. 6d.


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WAIVES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 3025 AND BW 1078
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
*ST MALVERN STRATFORD MELBOURNE ROTORUA FITZROY GARDENVAL*
vLMERSTON NORTH WAGGA WAGGA HAMPTON OAMARU WHYALLA IVAt
PIER KEW LEICHHARDT LEVIN MENTONE FREMANTLE MANGONUI SYO
IT MORESBY NEWMARKET INGLEWOOD
ANDALE PRAHRAN BONDI NEDLANOS
OLDA MITCHAM HASTINGS BRISB.
NY WILLIAMSTOWN EPPING GISB^
\RVON ALEXAN
VILLE BALL,
LD DERBY
VA DAVLE
ECHUCA
GEELON'
KATOOMBA NOl
LOELA WELLINGTON
NARRABRI AUCKLAND NT
ULVERSTONE PORT KEMBLA BUNDABERC
A OAKEY STANLEY CHRISTCNUR'*'
lUHU TEMORA GAYNO**-’
TOWN IN*'
NTH**'
O OAKLEIGH MOUNT LAV
OOD INVERCARGILL C»
,ISMORE DOUBLE BA'
Y FEATHERSTON
RST CLAYFIELO
lO LUTWYCHE f
ANGERUP BALC
fRA CASTERTON
ERIE ASHBURT'
RANKSTON WT
NA HAMILTf
KERANG S'
Ttha MANLY B«
A ORANGE PORT?*
600 A.N.Z. BANK MANAGERS
SERVING THE PUBLIC
There are 600 A.N.Z. Bank Managers serving the
public throughout Australia and New Zealand,
in Fiji and Papua, and in London. Behind them
stand the widespread organization and accumu-
lated • experience of the entire Bank.
In association, with your local A.N.Z. Bank
Manager you can establish a banking connection
which will serve you long and faithfully, whether
your requirements are purely local or world-wide.
A-N-Z
W
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
{Established 1835) (Established 1837)
Ouer 780 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand,
in Fiji and Papua, and in London. Agents throughout the world.
Your Savings
Invested Promptly In
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
LOAN
will earn
£4/1 5/- %
Every Year!
# %
This £2,500,000 Loan is your opportunity to gain per cent,
annually for the next 12 or 20 years. Interest is payable half yearly,
free of exchange in terms of the Prospectus, and may be credited to
your bank account.
PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST GUARANTEED
GOVERNMENT. AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE
N.S.W., QUEENSLAND, WESTERN AUSTRALIA
BY THE N.S.W.
INVESTMENT IN
AND TASMANIA.
It’s easy to start savings earning 4|%
You can lodge your application today
• at any Commonwealth Trading Bank branch;
• through your Stockbroker;
• at the Sydney Water Board Office.!
Ask for a Prospectus and application forms.
Holders of securities in Loan No. 38 (maturing on Ist
November, 1954) are invited to convert to the new Loan now.
Loan No. 120, issued at par, fcand underwritten by J. B. Were & Son,
will close on or before 25th September, 1954.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Shares and Bonds
Shares are still a better invest-
ment than fixed-interest stocks
and debentures, as holders of
scrip in the recent £3O million
Government loan and in semi-
government floats have been
finding since yields on gilts rose
above 4 p.c. during the past
couple of months. The rise has
been about 2s. 6d. per cent.,
enough to rob holders of the
new scrip of £1 market-value on
every £lOO,
This doesn’t help to build up
confidehce in public loans, and
is storing up trouble for the
future, when heavier maturities
and bigger borrowings for
national works will put to the
test N.Z.’s pegged-interest policy.
All the gains have been going to
those who banked on .further
inflation and took the calculated
risks of the sharemarket. These
gains have been smaller lately,
but the balance is still in favor
of shares in the present period of
partially suppressed inflation.
The only real stabilising influ-
ence is that of steadier export
prices, which is not sufficient to
do the job without the support
of strong internal measures.
The Budget, framed as an
election-winner, played up to the
popular demand for spending,
and the pressures are all .still
towards more expansion in
money. If the supply of goods
looks reasonably adequate in
most lines, this position is not
matched by services, which are
more-or-less short everywhere.
Even during the winter, the quiet
season, things were growing
worse, and it is elementary that
scarcity of manpower and infla-
tion go hand-in-hand.
However, by the manpower
yardstick, the odds are all on the
side of those who have continued
to put. their faith in shares,
backed by assets that are worth
a lot more than balance-sheet
figures.
Shares have been keeping
abreast of wages, if not a bit
ahead of them, and should con-
tinue to do so, barring cases
where cos. have been laying out
capital for the future and have
to wait for results. Much capital
is fully employed, overworked
some of it, and new issues should
put money into the pockets of
current holders in the course of
the next few years. In the cir-
cumstances, the risks favor those
who have converted their savings
into shares, instead of building
up bank-balances. Most cos. are
being carried along by the rising
demands of record population-
growth, which is placing more
and more business in the way of
firms well situated to profit by it.
The building, engineering and
allied trades are having a
wonderful time. Expansive
development on an ever-widening
scale is a stimulus to industry
generally, and to all services,
public and private.
Many of the demands spring
from a predominantly juvenile
population which is like capital
that is not working yet. In a few
years, when the juveniles enter
the production-ranks in increas-
ing numbers and capital reaches
the reproductive stage, N.Z.
should begin to show its true
form. The youthful population,
eagerly looking forward to the
time when it will pull its* weight,
is one of the soundest of calcu-
lated risks for investors who sink
their money in shares. The other
main risks are those of a young
country with abundant resources
still to be developed, coupled
with the prospect of a
tremendous rise in the population
of countries that will provide the
markets. Taking all the risks
together, it is hard to see how
those who concentrate on strong,
well-managed enterprises can go
wrong, whatever the short-term
difficulties.
Wage-claims
Self-restraint and moderation
have been so generally lacking in
post-war wage-demands that the
Federation of Labor’s present
application for a 10 p.c. general
rise looks almost generous* and
suggests that the federation is
making a bid for popularity. The
nearness of the general election
has had a tempering influence,
and made wage-policy for the
time being . subservient to
Socialist political policy.
Three months ago it was
hinted that the federation would
ask for a £2 10s. rise ; now the
maximum sought is 21s. Bd. Last
year the federation put in for
£2 4s, sd. and got 10 p.c., or
245. This time the Arbitration
Court is asked to limit the order
to the lower-paids, which places
the others, mainly skilled, in a
group apart. As officially recog-
nised margins for skill have been
shrinking this seems sensible,
and is certainly realistic, because
whatever the court writes into
awards must be interpreted in
practice in the light of employ-
ment conditions that make a
mockery of award-rates.
Lately the federation and the
court have been recognising this.
As a lead to opinion, Mr. Justice
Tyndall, president of the court,
said a couple of months ago:
“The gap between award-rates
and what employers pay widens
all the time. The court, cannot
hope to catch up in conditions
of full employment when its
orders increasing wages are out-
stripped by the offers employers
make when seeking labor.”
For years the court has been'
following the trend at a
respectful distance, while the
inflationary influences have been
high export prosperity, cheap
money, easy credit and budgetary
inflation, which have combined
to force up the cost of living to
an extent that wages have not
been able to keep pace. What
would benefit the workers more
than wage-price competition, in
which wages are behind most of
the time, is greater use of
monetary weapons and an anti-
inflationary fiscal policy. This
was the policy of the Nationalists
when they took over from the
Socialists five years ago, and Is
still their catchcry inside and
outside Parliament, but the
methods employed have been a
compromise between Socialism
and free enterprise. Things
haven’t been made easier by
seeking the best of both worlds,
and the Arbitration Court has
had an unpopular role. Wages
are only one factor in costs,
although a major one, and the
other factors have upset the
balance every time the court has
tried to restore it. This has bred
a sense of frustration among the
rank-and-file and hasn’t helped
to develop incentive or the will (
to/ight back against costs, which
is the only sure cure. The most
encouraging signs at the moment
are external, and uncontrollable ;
the internal and controllable
changes are still unfavorable.
Using Dollars Wisely
Dollar austerity or not, N.Z.
is working up quickly to record
imports from the hard-currency
part of the world, with the spend-
ing managed sensibly to give
priority to equipment and
materials the country most needs.
No complaints are heard that
dollars are being misspent; the
only grumble is that there aren’t
enough of them. Almost monthly
some new move is announced to
add more millions to dollar
purchases, and this while busi-
ness in consumer-goods from the
New World is still tightly banned.
Taking dollar trade as a whole,
N.Z. is only warming up.
Cars, light trucks, topdressing-
planes, farm- and construction-
plant, and materials for industry
are on the dollar-priority list,
along with 16 million dollars’-
worth of stuff for the Murupara
pulp-and-paper project and the
national development works tied
up with it. .The quota of dollar
cars will be doubled to 3000 next
year, and 100 U.S. planes will be
brought in to give a real airlift
to topdressing on hill country,
which is the latest craze in the
production drive.
Today 200,000 tons of
phosphate, equal to a quarter of
the country’s topdressing ton-
nage, is spread by planes, some
of which are old crocks from the
last war and are a peril to the
pilots who have the daring to fly
them. The Government has ideas
of boosting the aerial total to
three-quarters of a million tons of
phosphate within a few years,
and if this doesn’t' bring a flush
of growth on millions of acres of
hills and ranges that will be a
new spur to N.Z., all the research
of a quarter of a century has
been in vain.
Farmers and everyone else can
stake all they’ve got on the
success of this venture. Best of
all, it will give the biggest push
to meat and wool, which are the
strongest of N.Z.’s exports today.
Dollar cars and trucks are
wanted in such numbers that
3000 of the one and 600 of the
other will make hardly a dent
on the market. Popular models,
like Chevrolets, Fords and
Plymouths, are so scarce that
they’re worth double the new-
car price when they’re run-in.
No controls, however strict,
could be a watertight safeguard
against occasional profiteering
in this state of the market, but
most of the nevy models appear
to be going to genuine “essential
users,” business concerns, taxi
cos. and back-country setlers.
If these moves are only the
forerunners of still more liberal
handing-out of dollars, N.Z. will
have its compensation for the
years when it made the greatest
sacrifices of any sterling country.
N.Z. feels it has earned the
increase and is confident that the
tide is now running in the right
direction. Dollar savings from
manufacture of newsprint will be
worth millions from early ’56
onwards, and N.Z. will then
have four main export industries.


A Group of Experts to Manage
your estate
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Companv
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet-~- u Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
è
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
I
F. H. Way {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
{Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bond. J. R. Faviell
F. B, Fleming. G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart «
Permanent^Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.75.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
■DECENT rapid expansion of the sugar
industry, and the earnings thereof,
appear to have reached their peak. Be-
cause production for the 1953 season, and
the forecast for the current one, was, and
is, in excess of available markets, and be-
cause of problems relating to storage,
finance and shipping of the carry-over,
the export of raws for the 1954 season is
expected to be well over 100,000 tons less
than the 1953 figure. And at the moment
there are no signs of early relief from
the position—heavy unsold stocks in
Cuba and elsewhere in the West Indies are
chief cause of the trouble. Australian
production is therefore likely to be limited
to recently allotted mill quotas, or
possibly less.
The U.K.-Commonwealth sugar pact,
which runs until 1961, provides for an
annual export of 600,000 tons raws
(200,000 tons more than previously), over
half of which is taken at an annually
negotiated price, and the balance is sold
in the open market, where the future
price-level is uncertain for reasons already
stated. Locally the area planted to cane
and mill-capacities have been increased
accordingly.
Last season Nature was kind, and the
Australian output of raws was a record:
, Production Raw Sugar
Home Export
Market, ‘ Market, Total,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1951 .. ~ 587,745 157,346 745,091
1952 .. .. 477,000 471,000 948,000
1953 . . .. 517,000 740,000 1,257,000
The current season’s cane-crop is ex-
pected to yield 1,380,000 tons raws,
Millaquin’s output last season was 54,467
tons (up 18,612 tons) raws, and the co.’s
mill peak for the current season is 55,500
tons.
Average home, export and overall
prices compare as follows:
Home Overall
Season. Consumption. Export. Average.
1951 .. £33 14 0 £36 15 6 £34 7 6
1952 .. 44 3 0 41 2 0 42 12 3
1953 .. 46 10 0 38 10 0 42 0 0
For the 1954 season the home-consump-
tion price is expected to remain steady,
and the average export figure is estimated
at £37 ss. per ton, which should be very
profitable to both millers and growers.
Millaquin’s earnings are supplemented
by returns from a fine wad of invest-
ments outside the business and from
refining a small portion of the Queens-
land crop not handled by C.S.R. After
allowing £95,563 (up £71,425) for depre-
ciation and something for taxation, etc.,
last term’s profit was £48,295 stronger at
a record £146,094, thanks to bigger output
and strengthening of the home-consump-
tion price;
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1948.. 84,844 11 p.c. = 55,000 29,444 425,500
1949.. 104,638 13 „ „ 65,000 39,638 465,138
1950.. 87,918 13 „ „ 65,000 22,918 488,057
1951.. 88,557 13 „ „ 65,000 28,557 511,614
From inner reserves, £20,000 .. 531,614
1952.. 85,465 13 p.c. = 65,000 20,465 552,079
1953.. 97,799 15 ~ ~ 75,000 22,799 574,878
1954.. 146,094 „ 87,500 58,594 633,472
The £146,094 was 29.2 p.c. on the half-
million of capital as against 19.5, 17.1,
17.7, 17.6 and 20.9 p.c. back to 1949. The
distribution, steady at 11 p.c. for the 11
years to 1948 and at 13 p.c. for the next
four years, was lifted from 15 p.c, to 17|
p.c.—lo p.c. of it is called dividend and
p.c. bonus, which includes a special
2\ p.c. to celebrate the Queen’s visit to
Australia. With reserves heaped £133,472
higher than paid capital, the two com-
bined need turn in only 7.7 p.c, to cover
17i p.c, on capital alone.
Principal balance-sheet movements
were net additions of £303,641 to the
book-value of mills, refinery, plantations,
railways, etc., and £116,828 to stocks:
D , 1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital ~ £509,000 £500,000 £500,000
Reserves .. ~ 552,079 584,878 633,472
Overdraft .. .. 137,341
Creditors, etc.* .. 584,625 721,986 864,804
Final div. .. 45,000 55,000 62,500
Total ~ .. £1,681,704 £1,851,864 £2,198,117
Freeholds, mills,
refinery, etc. .. 434,006 706,632 982,470
Plantations, etc... 57,591 59,433 65,968
Railways, etc. .. 36,417 55,965 77,233
Stocks . . ~ 331,356 185,476 302,304
Book debts ~ 49,512 27,755 40,414
Investments .. 747,549 716,292 729,728
Cash .. ~ 25,273 100,311
Total .. .. £1,681,704 £1,851,864 £2,198,117
* Including taxation.
To meet the outlay the co. went to its
bankers for £137,341, added £142,818 to
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc., and drew upon its holding of cash
for £100,311. Investments consist of
Government securities (£545,677), shares
in the Bundaberg Distillery Co. (in the
books at £64,951, or 60 p.c. of face-value
» and worth a lot more), and shares in
other cos., etc. (£119,100). The pro-
gramme of expansion is now nearing
competition, and the balance of expen-
diture is to be financed on pverdraft.
The market notes the co.’s strength,
financial and otherwise, and prices the
f.-p. £1 shares at 61s. 6d. (58s. a year
ago) to return 5.7 p.c. on a 17£ p.c. distri-
bution, or 4.9 p.c. on a 15 p.c. basis. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is 455. 4d.
Consolidated Finance Corp.
/"VRIGINALLY it was the ill-fated
Sydney - domiciled Producers and
General Finance Corporation. The busi-
ness was reconstructed and put on a
sound footing in 1945, when £388,750 of
the capital was jettisoned and the name
changed to the present title. Since then
expansion has been steady and profit-
able, with pronounced growth over the
last couple of years, following extension
of trading activities and the boom in hire-
purchase business.
The parent handles hire-purchase and
general finance, there are eight trading
subsidiaries (seven in and around Sydney
and one at Wollongong), and h.-p,
branches were recently opened at Bris-
bane and Melbourne. The subsidiaries
are A. W. Booth Pty., Kelly’s Furniture
Pty., Simpson Lee and Co, and Century
Furnishers Pty., all in the retail furniture
and furnishing trade ; Lilyfield Furniture
Co., furniture-manufacturer; Kilners
Pty., removals and storage; Amplion
Automotive Pty., distributor of small
petrol-engines ; Frank Bode Motors Pty.,
service-station and car sales (Austin and
Morris vehicles), Wollongong, The Simp-
son Lee,’Century Furnishers, Frank Bode
Motors and Amplion cos, were all added
to the list during the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts, and should further
strengthen earnings on both the h.-p. and
trading sides of the business.
During the year to June 30 last share-
holders were thrice rewarded. Firstly
by capitalisation of £97,937 of re-
serves, created by writing-up the
book-value of fixed assets and applied
to raising the paid-up face-value of
issued ord. shares from 4s. to ss. each;
secondly, by a one-for-two par issue of
ords. for cash, which brought in
£264,748 ; and thirdly, by a lift in the div.
from 10 p.c, to 12£ p.c, A further
£39,815 of ord. capital appears to have
been issued in connection with the pur-
chase of subsidiaries. Over the last three
years £523,094 —£402,500 of it in respect
of last term —has been added to paid
capital, raising the figure to £894,245 in
125,000 7 p.c, prefs, of 16s, each and
3,176,980 ss. ords.* In the near future a
further 300,000 7 p.c. £1 prefs. are to be
issued, ranking pari passu with the
existing prefs.
Last term all the subsidiaries, except
Simpson Lee and Co., traded at a profit.
After eliminating outside interests and
allowing £7542 for depreciation and
£71,254 (up £14,235) for taxation, net
earnings of the group were £28,319
stronger at £112,782;
Consolidated Finance and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, tained. serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1951 .. 50,014 7 10 29,852 20,162 26,070
From doubtful debts prov’n, £10,■000.. 36,070
Unexplained reduction res., £1263 .. 84,807
1952 .. 49,243 7 10 46,174 3,069 37,876
Unexplained addition res., £229 .. 38,105
1953 .. 84,463 7 10 46,174 38,289 76,394
Revaluation assets, £97J937 ~ .. 174,331
Reserves capitalised, £97,937 .. .. 76,894
Deficit .*
Less reserve adjustments, £145,474.. 69,080
Added goodwill, £19,358 .. • • 88,433
From tax reserve, £15,043 .. .. 73,390
1954 ..112,782 7 12J 87,748 25,034 48,356
* After deducting goodwill and difference between
par and book-value of shares in subsidiaries.
The reserve adjustments interlined in the
table relate to the issue of bonus-scrip,
acquisition of subsidiaries and overpro-
vision for taxation in 1953. The £112,782
of profit covered the pref. div. (£7000) and
21.6 p.c. on £489,682 of ord. capital (new
cash-paid capital, etc., was received too
late to have any effect upon the year’s
net earnings), compared with 19.8 p.c.
and 10.8 p.c. for the two preceding years.
With things as they are prospects of the
12-k p.c. div. being maintained are
encouraging. After allowing for good-
will and the difference between par- and
book-value of shares in subsidiaries,
£48,356 of the capital was unrepresented
by tangibles in the books at June 30 last.
The purchase of subsidiaries and ex-
pansion of h.-p. business show up in net
additions of £1,007,323 to debtors’ bal-
ances, etc., £90,003 to freeholds, £26,060
to plant and £77,569 to stocks:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954,
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 391,745 391,745 794.245
Reserves .. ~ 37,876 76,394
Outside interests .. 6,919 6,929 49,282
Unearned income .. 82,867 114,516 220,849
Overdraft . . . . 216,290 ■ 332,302 1,045,333
Creditors, etc. .. 34,458 88,930 105,396
Tax provision .. 71,122 78,036 83,399
Final div. .. 23,087 23,087 68,068
£964,864 £1,211,939 £2,461,572
Freeholds .. , .. 98,057 101,903 191,906
Plant, etc. . . 31,398 32,999 59,059
Stock .. .. 108,085 100,862 178,431
Debtors, etc. .. 725,085 974,509 1,981,832
Cash, etc 1,739 1,666 1,988
Deficit .. .. 48,356
£964,364 £1,211,939 £2,461,572
To help meet the outlay £713,031 was
added to the overdraft, £16,466 to the
amount coming to sundry creditors and
£402,500 to share capital. Including tax-
provision and the final div., there was
20s. Bd. of outside money in the business
for every £ belonging to shareholders,
including provision for unearned income,
when the books closed. The proposed
new pref. issue will reduce the figure to
16s. 6d.
At Bs. lid. the f.-p. ss. ords. return
7.5 p.c. on a 12? p.c. div. basis. The 165.-
paid prefs. at 16s. 9d. yield 6.7 p.c.
Including the proposed pref. issue, net
tangible cover is £2 12s. 3d. per £ of pref.
capital and 4s. Bd. per ord. share.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd. (Hobart)
CJINCE mid-1949 the co. has scattered
£150,000 of bonus-scrip and issued
£225,000 of cash-paid capital at par,
lifting the total on the share-register to
£600,000. Still, as an investment, the
scrip has been a disappointment to share-
holders over this period. Many now
wonder whether the gift-giving, which
came from a reserve created by writing-
up the book-value of freeholds by a like
amount, was not premature.
The div., which had been steady at
12 p.c. for 11 years to 1948, was lifted
to 13i p.c. for the two following terms,
then dropped to 8 p.c. in 1951. Nothing
was paid in 1952, because more money
was wanted to finance plant-replacement
and for other improvements, and only
5 p.c. has been handed out for each of
the two years to the close of last
accounts.
The scrip (21s. paid to 205.), which
fetched 40s. (ex bonus-issue) in Septem-
ber, 1950, and had dropped to 265. 6d.
a year ago, recently stood at 235. 6d. in
the market. The return at 235. 6d. is
4.2 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. Net tan-
gible cover (book-value) is 30s, 6d. The
investor who looks for, say, 5.9 p.c. on
his money counts on a 7 p.c. distribution,
which might be a reasonable prospect
when earnings get the full benefit of the
new malting-plant, delivery of which was
delayed but which is expected to come
into production within the next few
months. The Licensing Court, however,
has instructed the co. to remodel and
rebuild some of its hotels, and the work
is expected to extend over the next three
years. No hint is given as to what the
cost-—which might stand in the way of
an early lift in the div. —is likely to be.
Chief sources of earnings are (1)*
approximately a half-interest in Tasman-
ian Breweries Pty., over whose figures
the curtain is kept drawn, (2) hotel and
other rentals, (3) manufacture of cor-
dials, and (4) returns from a small wine-
and-spirit offshoot, Traders Pty. After
charging £22,742 (up £3417) spent on
repairs, etc., against earnings and allow-
ing £13,964 (up £3197) for depreciation
and £26,000 (down £8000) for taxation,
last term’s net earnings were £4370 better
at £52,511:
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1951.. 44,741 . 8 p.c. = 37,425 7,316 192,740
To staff fund, £264 192,476
Unexplained reduction, £4165 .. 188,311
Tax underprovided, £9775 .. .. 178,536
Profit sale assets, £25,163 .. .. 203,699
1952.. 49,511 Nil 49,511 253,210
To staff fund, £lOO 253,110
Unexplained additions, £1703 .. 254,813
Written off freeholds, £1192 .. 253,621
Tax written back, £ 6088 .. .. 259,659
Profit sale assets, £6901 .. .. 266,560
1953.. 48,141 5 p.c. = 27,373 20,768 287,328
To staff fund, £l5 287,313
Tax written back, £7186 .. .. 294,499
Unexplained reduction, £4lB ..294,081
1954.. 52,511 5 p.c. = 30,000 22,511 316,592
If an overprovision of £7186 for taxation
in 1953 is taken into the reckoning, there
was a slip of £2816 in last term’s net
result. The £52,511 of profit was 7.1
p.c. on average capital as against 9, 9.4
and 9.6 p.c. for the three preceding years.
Shareholders’ prospects largely depend
upon how much of its net earnings the
brewing co. is sending along. Beer-con-
sumption remains on the up-grade, and
raw-material and operating costs are
steadier. On the other hand competition
from the mainland, practically dormant
for over a decade, is beginning to show
up again.
Principal balance-sheet movements
were net additions of £58,265 to plant,
etc., £34,121 to mortgages and £11,537
to the amount coming to sundry
creditors:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £510,000 £600,000 £600,000
Reserves .. .. 253,110 287,313 316.592
Mortgages, etc. .. 107,504 126,222 160,343
Other creditors .. 37,342 57,294 68,831
Tax reserve .. 32,600 34,000 26,000
Pinal div. 14,438 15.000
£940,556 £1,119,267 £1,186,766
Freeholds, etc. ~ 604,324 682,469 680,948
Plant, etc. .. 176,340 237,036 295,301
Shares Other cos. 59,725 60,475 63,831
Stocks . . . . 60,821 52,009 54,300
Book debts, etc... 19,318 19,663 25,542
Cash, etc. .. 20,528 67,615 66,844
£940,556 £1,119,267 £1,186,768
Over the last three years £102,671 has
been added to the book-value of free-
holds (which include hotel properties and
the brewery premises, the latter being
rented to the brewing co.) and £181,133
to plant, etc. (mainly the cordial factory).
To date net earnings have been sluggish
to respond to the outlay. When the books
last closed liabilities exceeded more-or-
less liquids (excluding shareholdings) by
£123,488 (up £30,821). Still, there was
only 7s. 2d. of outside money in the
business for every £ belonging to share-
holders.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0,1»
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
A SOUND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION
Providing f
able protec
to assist
Australia's
develop-
ment.
Every Yet
a t
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Biigh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BW 8061.
TO-DAY'S PROTECTION-—TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
for policyh
ers, while pr
viding fund
AUSTRALIAN
Research in Industry . . No. 6 of a Series
10®°
550
'Pressure
‘Product
In 1939 1.C.1. started
producing a new plastic
—polythene—one which
was to play a major role
in defeating Hitler’s air
armada. Without poly-
thene, the Allied land
and sea radar systems
could not have developed
as they did and no
other material was both
tough enough and a
sufficiently good high-
frequency insulator to
satisfy the exacting needs
of airborne radar.
Making polythene in larger quantities was a difficult task.
Research work which was carried out for some years before
the war showed that Ethylene gas had to be heated at pressures
far greater than had ever been used in chemical plant before,
and the first experimental safety-valve blew the skylights out of
the laboratory. Today, this unusual plastic manufactured
on a large scale at very high pressures is doing its unique
job as a high-frequency insulator in radio and television, in
radar and electronic control equipment, and in undersea cables.
Polythene also has been found ideal'for many other uses
from flexible pipes for plumbing to packaging film and in
Australia ICIANZ is now starting to make large quantities of
“Visqueen”, a polythene transparent wrapping material which
is already widely used throughout this country.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
( MS yiQ<*Qc
é
jFcuJJi in JJtc
Uuiurc
The scene from a verandah at Port Moresby is
something ever to remember. But my thoughts go past
the beauty of the scene before my eyes.
On a hill round the bend is the house where
MacArthur lived when he came up from Brisbane to
direct phases of the island campaign. Outside the
town are airfields bearing the names of heroes who
died to free this island from Japan.
*
A few hours’ flight brought me up from the
Australian mainland. A few hours more would have
taken mp to the fringe of Asia. New Guinea is the
half-way, the link, the protection.
Its resources are real —gold, copper, crops, coffee,
timber and oil. Within the next five years, it is said,
coffee and cocoa production alone will be worth a
million pounds a year.
Here is a land rich, desirable, productive—and the
responsibility of Australia to develop and defend.
In foreign hands it could present us with a grave
problem. In our own, and fully used, it could be a
source of immeasurable wealth and comfort for
humanity.
So sharp is the clash between these two opposing
thoughts, that I think Australia now should be giving
an urgent priority to all that relates 1,0 New Guinea’s
development.
The approach should be positive. Rather than
say, “Half of the second largest island in the world
will take a lot of developing,” shouldn’t we be telling
ourselves, “Australia is extremely fortunate that a
Territory so vital to its defence is so relatively easy of
development?”
And it is. One has only to look at the richness
bursting on every side to ■see how facile it would be.
There is no drought, no water problem here.
Men and money were poured into New Guinea to
save it from an invader’s hands. Men and money are
needed now. And for them there are no substitutes.
I see no inconsistency between conserving the
rights of the native people and ensuring their ultimate
protection in the modern development of their country.
If the New Guinea task is too much for Australia
to finance, I believe we should invite Britain and the
United .States to come in and share a vital work that is
crying to be done.
~~/V. /Mzs/&ys
Engineering Supply (Bris.)
nrHE market has lifted its bid
A for this well - entrenched
Queensland engineering supply
merchant’s £1 ords. from 40s.
a year or so ago to 485., and the
latest accounts, which confirm a
15 p.c. div. rate, justify the
movement. At 48s. the return on
a 15 p.c. basis is 5.2 p.c.
The co. does an extensive
trade throughout Queensland in
machinery, engineering supplies,
motor accessories, tractors and
farm implements, etc., from its
headquarters at Brisbane and
branches at Rockhampton and
Townsville. It has always been
a good profit-earner and divi-
dend-payer, and hasn’t failed to
make a distribution since the
maiden 6 p.c. in 1905. In the
early years the div. was some-
times as high as 12i p.c., but
the depression knocked it back
to 2 p.c. in 1933. The rate
climbed to 8 p.c. in 1939, re-
mained steady for the eight years
to 1947, and then further ad-
vanced, reaching 15 p.c. in
1953.
Paid capital has been un-
changed at £275,000 since 1939,
the declared aim being to stabi-
lise turnover at a “reasonable
level which could be maintained
rather than strive • for ever-
increasing sales.” To cope with
the increase in turnover caused
by inflation and expanding in-
dustrial activity, a big proportion
of profits has been ploughed
back into the business, pushing
visible reserves up from £46,440
in 1939 to £305,000 at the close
of the latest accounts.
Sales last term were higher,
and profit before tax was £21,060
better at £158,919. After setting
aside £23,670 less for tax and
contingencies at £57,939, de-
clared net profit took a leap of
£44,730, reaching £100,980;
Net Re-.
June, Profit. t Dividends— N serves.
£ £ £
1948.. 46,750 10 p.c. = 27,500 148,004
1949.. 50,500 10 „ „ 27,500 \ nn .
To staff funds, £3OOO . . j 168,004
1950.. 67,289 124 p.c. = 34,375 \ IQ , nnn
To staff funds, £B9lB . . f 197,U0a
1951.. 79,875 124 p.c. = 34,375 I , nn
To staff funds. £5OOO ..j ■ 7,600
Unexplained reduction,
£l5OO . . . . 236,000
1952.. 74,375 124 p.c. = 34,375 * 9 ,„ nnn
To staff fund, £30,000 . . j 246 ’ 000
Unexplained reduction,
£15,730 . , . . 230,270
1953.. 56,250 15 p.c. = 41,250 245,270
1954.. 980.15 „ ~'41,250 305,000
Actually the improvement wasn’t
as great as the accounts show,
because a good deal of the 1953
provision for tax and con-
tingencies seems to have been
genuine profit. The £100,980
was equal to 36.7 p.c. on capital,
as against 20.5, 27, 29, 24.5 and
18.3 p.c. back to 1949, so the
15 p.c. div. was a comfortable
matter. Another good result is
in prospect for the current term.
Balance-sheet movements are
encouraging:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital £275,000 £275,000 £275,000
Reserves 246,000 245,270 305,000
Overdraft .. 104,915 581
Tax prov’n* 103,584 118,439 131,016
Creditors .. 95,148 116,754 145,037
Staff funds.. 45,000 44,719 43,416
Final divs... 20,625 20,625 20,625
£890,272 £820,807 £920,675
Freeholds .. 60,969 59,528 59,528
Furniture and
.. 13,924 17,838 23,007
Stocks . . 520,710 391,677 412,020
Debtors . . 239,125 234,809 315,790
Cash, bonds,
etc. . . 55,544 116,955 110,330
£8905272 £820,807 £920,675
* Includes provision for contingencies.
Increases of £20,343 in stocks
and £80,981 in book-debts were
financed mainly by surplus
profits and £28,283 added to
amounts owing to creditors.
Finances are strong. The net
assets backing, excluding what-
ever genuine profit is tucked
away in the “tax and contin-
gencies” provision, is 425. 2d. a
share.
Woodside (Lakes Entrance)
Oil, N.L.
CJPONSORED by Lakes Syndi-
cate, N.L., this Woodside
co. has just left the stocks in
Melbourne with a nominal capi-
tal of £1,000,000 in ss. shares,
of which one half is to be issued
and the other half held in pickle.
The public is offered 1,000,000
shares, payable ss. (Is. applica-
tion and 4s. allotment) not later
than October 8 next. Those on
the registers of the Gippsland Oil
Co. and Lakes Syndicate are to
receive a total of 300,000 fully
paids (one for one) and 260,000
fully paids (100 for each syndi-
cate share) respectively, plus
prior rights to subscribe for a
further 300,000 shares and
200.000 shares respectively.
Application for these' shares
close on October 1 next.
• The whole cash-issue of
1.500.000 shares has been under-
written and taken firm by
Messrs. Donaldson and Lynch,
Melbourne, at a brokerage of 3d.
per share. The co. will thus kick
off with an issued and paid
capital of £500,000, of which
£375,000 is to be put up in cash.
Brokerage will take £18,750, and
£50,000 is to be paid for rights,
plant, vehicles, etc., taken over,
thus leaving a working capital of
£306,250 to finance drilling and
prospecting. Preliminary exes,
(estimated at £7000) are to be
paid by Lakes Syndicate.
The leases and oil-prospecting
rights concerned are to be taken
over from the Gippsland Oil and
Lakes Syndicate cos., and cover
som'e 200 square miles of the
South Gippsland Basin between
Welshpool and Woodside (Vic.).
The area is adjacent to the hold-,
ings of the powerfully backed
Frome-Lakes Co., in which
D’Arcy Exploration, Vacuum
Oil and Consolidated Zinc are
equal partners.
In a report on the co.’s leases
consulting geologist Professor
E. S. Hills (Melbourne Uni-
versity) says;—
In this coastal belt, marine
Tertiary sediments occur which
are believed to be continuous in
depth with those around Gipps-
land Lakes. Minor production of
oil has been obtained from Lakes
Entrance over a period of years,
but not in payable quantities.
This occurrence of 0i1.... indi-
cates that Gippsland is a petro-
liferous region, and justifies a
programme of further prospect-
ing Any oil that may be pre-
sent might be expected to occur
in the Tertiary rocks, and prob-
ably near the base of these, but
the possible existence of oil traps
at other horizons, either shallower
or deeper, cannot be ruled out. A
flexible outlook must therefore
be maintained.
Geological investigations indi-
cate a reasonable prospect of
obtaining oil at depths not ex-
ceeding 6000 ft., but only the
drill can prove whether the stuff
is there in payable quantities.
Steps have already been taken
to secure suitable drilling equip-
ment and technical personnel.
On the board are P. D. Me-
Kenzie, R. P. Bee, F. L. Dobson,
E. Broughton Jensen and R. B.
Withers.*
With the arrival of a new air-
compressor, it should not be
long before something is known
about the uranium-value of ore
in the primary zone of the
Brocks Creek Co.’s leases at
Brocks Creek (N.T.). From one
shaft, at a depth of 100 ft., a
crosscut has advanced 25ft. to-
ward the lode, with promising
indications. Another shaft,
down 86ft., pa§sed through good
values for the first 20ft., then
through an impoverished zone to
60ft., from which point onward
cuprite and chalcocite showed
up, suggesting approach "to the
primary zone. The future of the
mine will depend upon values
met with in the sulphides. The
two outcrops recently located
about 300 ft. n.-w.* of the shafts
just mentioned are believed to
be in a different stratum to the
original lode. There is talk of
forming a separate co. to work
the Cosmopolitan Howley gold
leases. Brocks Creek scrip
(2s. 6d. paid to 6d.) recently
fetched 7s. 6d. in the market.


Divorce Notice
fw the supreme couke op new south
WALES—In Divorce.
TO CHARLIE BARCOLLEE late of No. 3 Flat
“Ulverstone” 15 Penkivil Street Bondi. TAK
NOTICE that HENRY HANBURY LEMME has fi ed a
Petition No. 2X43 of 1954 praying for Divorce from
THELMA JOYCE LEMME on the ground of her
adultery with you If you wish to defend you
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supre
rourt King Street Sydney by the sth January 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. N. J. BELL&CADOGAN, SoWor., (
Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
Women's Letters
STDNET
The Forum Club gave a pleasant wel-
come-home party during the week to Mr.
and Mrs. J. M. Tully, who have recently
returned from London, where Mr. Tully
has been N.S.W. Agent-General for
the past eight years. Mr. Tully spoke on
his impressions or the industrial condi-
tions in various European countries ; Mrs.
Tully spoke of her various meetings with
Princess Marie Louise, who is the only
living grandchild of Queen Victoria, and
is patron of the Forum Club in London.
'‘A charming woman of over eighty,”
said Mrs. Tully, “Princess Marie Louise
can today make a speech which would do
credit to any statesman.”
Miss Ruth Beale, president of the club,
presented a bouquet to Mrs, Tully and
■ welcomed the guests, who included Mr.
L. J. Tully, M.L.A., son of the guests-
of-honor, and Mrs. L. J. Tully, Dr. and
Mrs. C. M. Guiney, Dr. and Mrs. Ronald
Small, Mr. W. J. Bradley, Mr. F.
Daniells, Major and Mrs. C. Chapman
and Dr. and Mrs. C. G. Macdonald.
☆ ☆ ☆
French swim-suits of striking design
were shown at the spring mannequin-
parade of a large city store during the
week, including a glamorous model in
white sharkskin, embroidered with clus-
ters of pearls, diamente and braid —as
exquisitely made as a wedding-dress
(though somewhat briefer).
Local swim-suits for the- new season
are rather more practical, though one
does show an inset of white sharkskin
with a design of diamente. There are
bloomer-types in elasticised material
called “can-can” and priced at eight-
guineas, and a leopard-skin pattern
trimmed with black at six-guineas; an
exciting-looking cotton suit, full-skirted
and patterned with bright-colored food-
stuffs plus their calorie value ; grey satin
and white buttons trimming black-and-
white check cotton ; little white beads on
cherry-colored faille; and some pretty
designs featuring harlequin pom-poms
and white upholstery-braid.
The French swim-suits are all boned,
but the local ones mostly depend on clever
design, cut and material for support.
☆ ☆ it
A dress of delicate white Chantilly-
lace was worn by Elizabeth Hunt for her
marriage to Peter Kiefel at St. David’s
Church at Lindfield last week. Combined
with tulle and mounted on white satin, it
was worn with a fitted lace jacket. Her
bridesmaids, Jill Ludowici (Wee Waa),
Claire Gall and Miriam McMahon, wore
pale-blue organdie dresses which had out-
lined round neck and tiny sleeves with
white guipure medallions and little Dutch
bonnets to match. The bride is the only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. J. S. Hunt,
of North Nowley, Burren Junction, and
the bridegroom is the only son of Mr.
and Mrs, C. H. Kiefel, of Lardlaw,
Garah.
* ☆ *
The Naughty Nineties Ball, which is
one of the two balls in Sydney where
everybody really does dress up, is due
on October 1 at the A.C.X. ballroom, and
in keeping with the present ballet-fever
which has beset Sydney it will feature
the colorful ballet “Boutique Fantasque,”
so there should be a good array of dolls,
poodles, little boys in sailor-suits, kings
and queens from the playing-cards,
bustled ladies, etc. The decor, to be done
by Sam Hughes as in past years, will
make the ballroom look like a huge
package tied with ribbon, and it is cer-
tain that the parly will maintain its repu-
tation of being one of the gayest of the
year. Proceeds are in aid of the Deaf,
Dumb and Blind Children.
☆ ☆ ☆
The increased price of meat is giving
Sydney housewives a headache at present.
Fillet steak is 6s. 9d. a pound, sirloin ss.
and even the humble chuck is 3s. Id.
The Housewives Association is calling for
one meatless day a week, and why not?
Why not three meatless days? There is
a theory that the comparatively low
standard of Australian cooking is due to
the amount of good food that is avail-
able, and that if more ingenuity were
called for greater skill would be
developed. Undoubtedly the delicious
Italian dishes were developed because
meat was not plentiful; for instance
savory meat-sauce to make spaghetti
palatable, the fine slivers of veal or liver
treated with wine and garlic. So per-
haps the high price of meat may help
Australians to develop a national cookery
and thus lead to the abandonment of the,
meat-pie and the grilled steak as staple
items of diet
* ☆ ☆
Forty employers will be guests at the
Kooroora Club’s Annual Employers’
Day Luncheon at Nock and Kirby’s on
Thursday week. The guest-of-honor will
be Mr. Selkirk Panton, and his subject
“Current Affairs.” The Kooroora Club
consists of businesswomen who for the
past 25 years have been giving their ser-
vices and raising money for many causes,
as well as holding weekly luncheons and
social functions for its members.
Margaret Lenehan, president of the
Riverview Younger Set, is, with other
committee-members, helping to arrange
the Indian Mission Bazaar at Riverview
College on Saturday, September 18. The
bazaar is in aid of the hospital, school,
mission and agricultural work of the Aus-
tralian Jesuit Mission in India, and will
include several features showing the work
of the mission. There will be a children’s
carnival in the afternoon and a concert at
night. Special buses will run direct to the
college from North Sydney both in the
afternoon and evening. Photo by
Dorothy Welding.
Highly publicised arrivals in Sydney
during the past week or so included that
of the famous tenor Anton Dermota, of
the British Labor Leader Mr. Clement
Attlee and his wife, and of Johnny Ray,
the singer who weeps as he sings (and
no wonder). Which of these drew the
biggest crowds, the most vigorous wel-
come? Johnny Ray, of course. He
seemed to enjoy it, too. Kissed all the
girls, didn’t weep at all, said he likes
all kinds of art so long as it’s good, and
was thought by reporters “to have a
higher LQ. than most imported enter-
tainers.” Praise indeed!
* ☆ ☆
The horse still has its place in Sydney
life, apparently. Last week two of them
were seen gaily galloping unattended
along George-street North, adding quite
a bit to the springlike atmosphere of the
day. A private citizen caught one of
them, a policeman the other, but then
they didn’t know what to do with them
until they’d decided to tie them to a
“No Parking” sign (of all things) while
the policeman went to find their owners.
In Pitt-street also a woman stood for 10
minutes feeding sugar to two horses
harnessed to a van, at the same time
terrifying motorists with fierce cries of
“Why don’t you kill the horses and have
done with it?”; and in Park-street and
Martin-place the mounted policeman and
his horse directing traffic daily give an
exhibition of calm orderliness, good be-
havior and excellent grooming that seem
almost out of place in our happy-go-
lucky city.
* ☆ ☆
The Festival of Fashion to be held at
the Trocadero on Wednesday, September
29, is in aid of St. Joseph’s Children’s
Home, Croydon, where 60 little ones
from two to six years are looked after
by the sisters. The parade includes a
musicale and afternoon-tea, and should
be a very easy and pleasant way of help-
ing people very much in need of help.
MELBOURNE’
The State Government’s reception to
Mr. and Mrs. Attlee was, sartorially,
quite a hotchpotch affair, with beautiful
evening gowns cheek-by-jowl with the
most ordinary of tweed coats and suits.
Some of' the men guests declared their
sturdy adherence to the Movement’s prin-
ciples by appearing in pullovers. The
1800 guests moved in a setting of tall
cypress, gum-saplings and English trees.
Mrs, Cain’s gown was of steel-grey faille
made with a strapless bodice and an over-
skirt banded with steel and blue beads
over a full-pleated grey tulle underskirt.
Mrs. Attlee chose a slightly-trained gown
of grey-and-silver brocade faintly pat-
terned in red. Over it she wore a stole
of rose-red organza.
Among the guests were Sir Clifden and
Lady Eager, she wearing a grey-and-gold
satin brocade ; Mrs. Henry Bolte, wife
of the Leader of the Opposition, in a
lovely gown of pale-champagne satin-
brocade, the redingote skirt having the
centre-panel encrusted with pearls and
crystals to match those on the bodice;
Mrs. P. L. Coleman, in a bouffant gown
of white organza coin-spotted in black
chenille; Mrs. John Galbally, whose
satin brocades were patterned in white,
silver and grey and trimmed with tiny
black and silver beads; Mrs. L. R. Bux-
ton, her trained gown being: of peach-
pink duchesse satin; Mrs. R. H. Solly,
who wore orchid-pink satin ; Mrs. T. J.
Ryan, whose ice-blue faille frock had the
window-box front of the bodice filled
with flowers in pinks and blues; Mrs.
James Ferguson, who wore midnight-
blue tulle ; Mrs. Douglas Cox in pastel-
pink satin-brocade patterned in a deeper
pink ; and Mrs. A. G. Silk, whose black
satin sheath-gown was halter-necked.
Joan Ross, who has produced many
plays for amateur groups and is now busy
on “Who Goes There?" for the Wool
Ball committee of the Opportunity Clubs,
is the daughter of artist Cyril E. Ross
and Mrs. Ross. She has had experience
on the professional stage, and appeared
with Clifford Morrison, the English actor,
on his Australian visit. In December
Joan leaves for overseas, where she will
study theatre. “Who Goes There?” will
be presented in Nicholas Hall on Sep-
tember 17 and 18. Tickets may be
obtained from the office of Opportunity
Clubs, 20 Bank-place, Melbourne, or
booked at MU 1565. Photo by Athol
Shmith.
The Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
(Cr. and Mrs. F, P. Selleck)were host and
hostess to Mr. Clement Attlee and Mrs.
Attlee at a civic reception at the Town
Hall. Tall sprays of early spring blos-
som decorated the reception-room. Mrs.
Attlee wore a lightweight-wool frock in
bois-de-rose tonings, and her small velvet
cap in mushroom-pink matched her
suede gloves. The Lady Mayoress chose
a peacock-blue silk-taffeta dress, a tiny
matching hat and a silver-blue mink stole.
Among those who attended the recep-
tion were Lady Disney and her daughter-
in-law Mrs. Alex Hay, Lady McConnan,
Mrs. Henry E. Stebbins, U.S. Consul
Givon Parsons, Mrs. W. W. Killough,
Mr. and Mrs, W. K. Burnside, Mr. and
Mrs. A. E. Coates, the R. F. G. Fogartys,
Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Cox, Mr. and Mrs.
E. B. Coles, Cr. Douglas Cox and Mrs.
Cox, Cr. and Mrs. R. H. Solly, and Mrs.
Geoffrey Tolson, daughter of the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress,
* ☆ *
To celebrate the engagement of their
elder son Leon to Aviva Sanders, Mr.
and Mrs. S. Korman of Queen’s-road
entertained 70 guests at a cocktail-party,
followed by dinner at Chevron Hotel.
Aviva is the only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Michael Sanders of Middle Brighton.
Under her mink coat Mrs. Korman wore
a black French romaine skirt and a
white chiffon blouse coin-spotted in
black. Mrs. Sanders chose a cognac-
brown tulle ballerina frock sprinkled
with tiny gold beads. Aviva’s full-skirted
crushed-pink frock was trimmed with
white guipure lace.
☆ ☆ *
Fabrics selected by Mr. and Mrs. Neil
Rogers in France, Switzerland and
Italy, and designed by Mrs. Rogers, were
seen in the La Petite collection of spring
and summer frocks. A feature is the
bon-bon line with its sleek smoothness
over the hips, flaring fullness below the
knees, and wide look to the shoulders.
In most frocks Mrs. Rogers has an inter-
lining which enables the garment to retain
its shape. Outstanding among fabrics
are pure-silks, silk-organzas, pure silk-
surah and novelty velvet weaves.
Basques are shorter in the trim, light-
weight suits, and there is a definite up-
ward movement to gently moulded
bodices. The suit-jacket often has a
modified boning set into it, thus giving
the whittled look to waist and hips.
Skirts remain at mid-calf length, and
slim. Coats are flat across the back,
losing the tent-look but still with billowy
fullness. One of the new corseted suits
was made in midnight-blue mohair,
A new accessory was a wrist-posy of
white lilac which slips into the zipper-
opening on the back of white gloves.
On a fresh white organdie, the bon-bon
look was seen in the upstanding pleate d
collar. Three tiers of pleating in the
skirt gave fullness, and (to* match the
bodice) it was trimmed with appliques of
linen flowers.
Midnight-blue pure silk-surah was
used to make a frock with the slim skirt
breaking into fullness below the knees,
the Empire-bodice being finished with a
huge bon-bon collar, lined with white
guipure lace. The collar could be worn
either up or down. There was also a
grey, front-buttoned version of this frock.
Then there was the “Forum” dress,
owing its origin to Rome. Cut on the
bon-bon line, and of finely-pleated cinna-
mon chiffon over aqua chiffon with hori-
zontal bands of cinnamon-dyed guipure-
lace braid, it was sleeveless, with soft
swathes of the cinnamon chiffon over
the shoulders. Another outstanding
creation was a short theatre-ensemble.
The wide-skirted frock was made of five
layers of shell-pink nylon-tulle, one over-
laid flat against the other, and em-
broidered with motifs of grey lace and
grey organza roses studded with opales-
cent sequins. With it was a short theatre-
coat of permanently-pleated grey silk-
organza. Another eye-catching frock was
of oyster-grey lace, the bodice finished
with a cuff-collar of grey ribbed silk to
match the band on the skirt.
ii ☆ it
There were 400 guests at the reception
in .the Royale Ballroom given to Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Sheed, the visiting publisher-
and-author team. Mrs. Sheed allied a
black lace bodice and a black French-
crepe skirt. President of the reception-
committee, Mrs. L. R. Buxton, chose
a soft-grey chiffon dress, which had a
draped bodice and very full skirt, Mrs.
Davern Wright and Mrs. E, J. Smiley
assisted Mrs. Buxton in receiving guests,
among them Mr. Justice O’Bryan and
Mrs. O’Bryan, Sir John and Lady Allison,
Dr. and Mrs. John O’Donoghue, Dr. and
Mrs. Jim Peters and Colonel and Mrs,
J. Eather.
* ☆ ☆
Proceeds from the gala presentation of
La Petite’s latest collection will, by
courtesy of Mr. and Mrs. Neil Rogers,
be given to Prince Henry’s Hospital
Building Appeal. Interest in the gala
evening was heightened by the presence
of Lady Brooks, who is patroness of the
appeal. Among the 100 guests were Cr.
Maurice Nathan, chairman of the Build-
ing Appeal, and Mrs, Nathan, Mr. and
Mrs. Graham Nathan, Lady Beaurepaire
and Mrs. lan Beaurepaire, Lady Con-
nelly, Mrs. Constance Day, Mrs. John
Newton, Mrs. Eccles Mac Kay, the George
Griffiths and Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Carlyon.


Hospital
/
:>u -
SR
eauTj
m
c
HA
<?s
FVm m Quality —Fte in Favour
CHATEAU TANUNDA
The Brandy of Distinction.
A Product of the House of Seppelt
TUCKER AND CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, ESTB. 1838
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Edinburgh Festival “Mac-
beth”
This secret, black and mid-
night hag of a theatre is, in fact,
the Assembly Hall where the
divines of the Presbyterian
Church meet annually in confer*
ence —a place, no doubt, harm-
less enough.
But at night, high up above
the lights of Princes-street,
perched near the Castle over the
black abyss of the gully and
moat, spired, crenellated
and battlemented, approached
through an arch 'of granite and
along a dim-lit granite corridor,
it looks as forbidding as
. Dunsinane castle itself.
“Hell is murky,” says Lady
Macbeth as she staggers towards
death in her fog of guilt and
terror ; and certainly this huge
square room, where the grey
apron-stage flows down into the
packed audienqe from the
tattered curtains like old banners
and rags of war, lit by cadaverous
grey spotlights, is murky enough
to represent the hell in which
Shakspeare conceived this most
perfect of his tragedies.
Against the murk the Old Vic
producer, Michael Benthall, has
set noise, sombre color and
movement. Never has one
known a “Macbeth” so rowdy:
the shouts of the clansmen rush-
ing in in primitive tartans of
green and purple and crimson
after the opening battle; the
groans of the wounded
messenger; the shrieks of Mac-
duff’s murdered children and the
louder shrieking of his wife ; the
squealing of the bagpipes on all
occasions of ceremony and war;
the sledgehammer banging at
the postern (right behind one’s
head) in the Drunken Porter
scene ; the uproar and the con-
fusion as messengers, murderers,
troops of armed men, cohorts of
Malcolm and collaborators of
Macbeth, leap through the half-
dozen entrances to the theatre
and rush pell-mell through the
audience, the witches screaming
in incomprehensible Scottish . . .
It is magnificent, and it is
deafening.
Is it also Shakspeare? No.
Nothing is. Not quite. If
Anthony Quayle in his flashing,
bold Australian production with
the Stratford-upon-Avon players
seemed too young and frank and
manly for the deep tortured soul
of Macbeth, Paul Rogers in this
performance seems too deeply
steeped in evil right from the
start. There is no conviction in
his preliminary hesitations, in the
moment when, until goaded by
his lady, he genuinely wants to
spare old Duncan’s life. And
he shouts too much. Only in the
“Tomorrow and tomorrow”
soliloquy, which he speaks most
beautifully, does he subdue him-
self for a moment to the proper
quietude of poetry and agony—
with the result that, so isolated,
the soliloquy seems like a set-
piece, not truly a part of the
play.
It just does not seem possible
to this reviewer for anyone to
shout, as Paul Rogers does, “I
’gin to be a-weary of the sun.”
Nor, superb though she looks
in her green robe and long red
hair, and in her creamy night-
dress, does it seem possible for
Lady Macbeth (Ann Todd) to do
her sleep-walking scene in
screams and convulsive writh-
ings. There is no conviction of
sleep, therefore none of the
almost supernatural horror that
scene should evoke. One expects,
simply, that she will wake
herself up.
There is, of course, a mag-
nificent Macduff. All Mac-
duffs are magnificent —the part
goes straight; his tragedy is so
readily moving but John
Neville is even more magnificent
than is common.
All in all, a black wild night,
with both the Macbeths very
pleasing in their more vicious
and deadly moments and so
bringing one, on the whole, close
to the heart of the black wild
play.
Douglas Stewart.
“Funlasia”
We’ve seen all sorts of things
on bikes, including, often
enough, those celebrated two-up
characters, but never, until the
other evening at Sydney Tivoli,
bears.
Bears, mind you! Three of
them —a large black Russian
bear named Putze and two light-
brown Syrian bears called Baby
and Mausey—known collec-
tively, with their trainer, as
Edith Crocker and her Teddy
Bears. And not only do they ride
bikes, including motor-bikes
and other contraptions, up to 9ft.
high ; they give every indication
of enjoying it immensely. One
of them, in fact, both literally
and figuratively, positively re-
fused to get off his bike. They
dance, too, of course—wouldn’t
be bears if they didn’t —and be-
tween acts they sit-out on tubs
for all the world like kids wait-
ing for their porridge.
The rest of the Tiv.’s pro-
gramme, though bearless, is by
no means unbearable. Quite the
opposite, in fact. There are
Warren, Latona and Sparks,
who submit some spectacular
slapstick acrobatics —one of
them contrives to change his coat
from back-to-front to the right-
way-round in the course of a
back-somersault, a feat no doubt
learned while dressing in a hurry
for the 8.30 a.m. train. And
there are the Maxwell Bros.,
also in the acrobatic business,
but with the distinction that they
make it ten times more difficult
by doing it all in slow motion.
Then there are Buck and
Chic, who do extraordinary
things with whips and ropes ;
Johnny Craig, who does even
more extraordinary things with
his face, and who. takes-off
Tauber, Barrymore, George Wal-
lace, Mo and others in almost
bewildering succession; Ron
Parry, whose imitation of an
elephant wouldn’t fool an ele-
phant but would very likely
amuse it, and whose ventri-
loquial act—“please note that
my lips never leave my mouth”
—is a very good one indeed ;
and Guus Brox, the diminutive
clown with an engaging line of
funny business and a giantess,
Myrna, for a partner.
And last, but by no means
least, there are the Dagenham
Girl Pipers, those braw lassies
who take their pipes, their reels
and sword-dances verra seri-
ously, but appear to enjoy them
in that coldly prideful way in
which the British allegedly take
their pleasures. They were taken
very seriously, too, by a mem-
ber of the audience who com-
mented in accents as thick as
porridge, “Aye, noo; that is
somethin’,” *
“Aye,” we agreed. “It is in-
deed. And it will be something,
too, when Miss Crocker teaches
her Teddy Bears to play the
pipes.”
As she probably will.
* * *
Phillip -street Faeries
Sydney’s Phillip-street is not
at all the sort of place where
one would expect to meet the
little people, the place being
haunted mainly by unsuccessful
litigants and bewigged bar-
risters with, as a sort of academic
monument to the worldly parade
below, the Law School. An
uncongenial , place for faeries,
one would think.
Still, Sydney, especially at
night, is full of surprises. Up-
stairs, at St. James Hall, in a
room with green chairs, an audi-
ence watched a reading from a
selection of Irish poets, followed
by a film of the mechanics of
Shakspeare’s theatre (spelt
theater), followed by Yeats’s
“Land of Heart’s Desire,”
W.E.A. players put on the play,
and, allowing for the technical
difficulties which a small group
must always find difficult to over-
come, and the fact that Yeats had
a fine, poetic indifference to the
creation of such difficulties, they
made a good job 6f it.
Lyn Cameron,- as Bridgit
Bruin; Peter Macdonald, as
Shawn Bruin; Alan Smith, as
Maurteen Bruin; Frederick
Powell, as Father Hart —all gave
satisfying performances; char-
acterising the old wife, the son
and husband, the father and the
priest as sharply as need be: the
bitter tongue, the loving tongue,
the wise and worldly tongue and
the grave and godly tongue, all
of which conspired to drive the
young wife into the arms of the
“good people.” This, the realis-
tic, Irish-peasantry aspect of tfie
play, was very well presented,
assisted by the decor of bare
walls, crucifix, fire.
And Yeats’s poetry gently
evoked the other-worldly forces
from the night outside this snug
habitation of men. But Barbara
Wirth, as Mary Bruin, the
.“newly-married bride,” was not
quite satisfying. She was a
dreamy, tearful girl rather than
the dream-distracted creature of
Yeats’s imagination—a girl
shuddering between warm,
human love and the cold magic
of fancy. An admittedly difficult
role.
Maureen Hayes, as the Faery
Child, was pretty and eloquent.
But here, again, Yeats and the
stage (which was close to the
audience) demanded too much.
To make a faery materialise on
the stage is difficult at the best of
times. Miss Hayes was too
material —very pleasantly so, in
fragile costume, but, despite a
wild and star-dazzled expres-
sion and a voice which, at times,
had thrilling nuances, obviously
an attractive girl of flesh-and-
blood. The producer (Paul
Herlinger) might have been well
advised to try a child for the ’
role. And the dance should have
been omitted, or, perhaps, sug-
gested on the stage and con-
tinued off-stage in the moonlight
and darkness. Pretty girls in
Sydney do not, as a rule, dance
“like fire on the mountains.”
. These details broke the
illusion —which was cracked a
little, anyway, by the delay be-
tween the poem-reading and the
other items. Poems by James
Stephens, George Russell, James
Joyce, Louis MacNeice, Yeats,
Donagh MacDonagh and
Padraig Colum were read by
Frederick Powell and Judith
Fisher. They went down with
the audience very well. Miss
Fisher used her eyes rather too
much —an intervention of the
reader between audience and
poet which cannot but rob the
poems of something of their
force. This general tendency is
the prime disadvantage of read-
ings of poems.. Powell was
better, because he was more
restrained.
❖ ❖
Danco and Susskind ,
The singing of Suzanne Danco
was the most attractive part of
the latest subscription-concerts
in Brisbane. In arias from operas
by Mozart, Rossini and Bizet she
sang without mannerisms, either
vocal or histrionic, achieving the
distinct atmosphere of each aria
in a manner all the more effective
because of its seeming effortless-
ness. The pure, almost aristo-
cratic musicianship of this singer
made it regrettable that she was
not given the opportunity to sing
one of the great French song-
cycles instead of an oddly
assorted group of operatic arias.
Walter Susskind directed the
Queensland Orchestra in model
accompaniments, but elsewhere
in the programme his vigorous
cues in the direction of the brass
and percussion players evoked
such an overwhelming weight of
tone that the strings and wood-
wind had to choose volume
instead of subtlety in their efforts
to hold their own. Elgar's
“Enigma Variations” suffered
from this lack of balance, as well
as from a lack of the subdued
but unmistakable passion which
marks much of his music.
The Second Symphony of
Dvorak fared better. Anglo-
Saxons have always felt as coolly
towards this work as a Czech
might feel towards Elgar, not
because of musical jealousies, but
because some music cannot get
beyond its own national barriers.
Dvorak’s Second is without the
strong melodic appeal which has
gained exit visas for some of his
other works, but Mr. Susskind’s
performance was eloquent in the
way it made the most of the
warm orchestration and Slavic
• high spirits of the piece.
D. J. M.
❖ ♦♦♦
Post and Dermota
Anton Dermota, the Viennese
tenor, was soloist with the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
under Joseph Post, and at once
proclaimed his high artistic
standard with “Her Eyes So
Alluring” from “Cosi fan Tutti.”
He captured the tender light-
heartedness of the piece in the
best Mozartian singing by any
male singer heard in Australia
for at least two decades.
He followed this with “The
Dream” from “Manon.” Here
he was complete master of the
most difficult phase of the tenor’s
art, the mezza voce set high in
the scale and in legato phrases—
the severest test of both breath-
ing and control. In the middle
section, where full-throttle was
demanded, he laid his ears back
and let ’em have it, with a good
shot of Latin passion to boot.
Another aria from the same
Massenet opera, “Ah, Depart,
Fair Image,” gave further proof
of his quality ; from the delicate
he moved with equal authority
into well-sustained robust sing-
ing. His diction in all three
numbers was just about faultless.
Throughout, Joseph Post held
his forces on a tight leash —a
pleasure to note after hearing
so many singers half-drowned
of late by other conductors.
The big orchestral work of the
night was Beethoven’s Symphony
No. 3 (the “Eroica”), that great
promontory thrust out into the
ocean of music.
It was generally a solid read-
ing which made much of the
work’s elemental power, its pro-
fundity and the supreme
eloquence of the “Funeral
March.”
“Sally”
It was pleasant to see amateur
musicomedy take a sharp up-
ward trend with the Rockdale
Musical Society’s “Sally.” It's
a wittier and less-hackneyed
show than other vintage pieces,
and. producer Arthur Bedwell
got a high degree of accuracy
and speed from his company, a
surprisingly lively response from
his chorus and two excellent
comedy parts from Rodney
Smith, as Otis Hooper, and Stan
Wolfenden, as the Grand Duke-
turned-waiter.
The orchestra could have
helped the dancers more by
watching its tempo, and the sing-
ing grew ragged at times, but the
general impression that the
whole company was “on its
toes” was something out of the
way.
Talkies
“Jour de Fete”
The best slapstick comedian
since Chaplin is thrown up by
this French film, a droll story
about a village postman, a
natural “come on,” who
responds eagerly to the urgings
of the local wags to emulate the
speed of the U.S. postmen which
he and they have seen demon-
strated in a newsreel shown
during the village fete-day.
Jacques Tati is the postman.
Long, thin and gauche, his bike
almost a part of him, he gives a
remarkable portrait of a natural
ditherer who has a supreme self-
confidence in his own ability.
His slapstick is never forced ; it
all fits neatly and often subtly
into the general pattern of the
comedy.
The characters who aid and
abet the nonsense are all neatly
drawn, and their human foibles
are pointed up sharply. At
Sydney Savoy.


FEATHER YOUR NEST
By E.O. SCHLUNKE
CHAPTER I
AMONG its members it was
always known with un-
justifiable pride as “the
Club”: “Going down to
the Club tonight, Harry?” Or
to a visitor to the town; “Come
down to the Club and meet the
boys.” The select social centre
for the men of the town, and
those types of countrymen who
were able to get some real or
imagined pleasure from associ-
ating with them.
Most of the members had
comfortable homes, reasonably
attractive wives, and children in
need of their help and friend-
ship ; yet they chose to spend
much of their time in a club-
room built with the economy of
a railway-station waiting-room,
and furnished like the drinking-
lounge of a second-rate country
hotel, only much more austerely,
with the cheapest pressed-wood
tables and cane basket-chairs.
In one corner was a bar, manned
by volunteers who probably
never did the chores at home.
A place for relaxation, and
for the kind of good-fellowship
rampant among businessmen;
also a place for the kind of com-
munication too indefinite and
too informal to be called busi-
ness, but frequently of great sig-
nificance, as was the intercourse
between Kraftmann the grazier
and his friend, the solicitor,
Johnston. They sat at a table
by themselves drinking whisky.
The rest of the members, given
over to a noisy, back-slapping,
hail-fellow-well-met jollity which
results from mixing bowls with
alcohol, left them respectfully to
themselves. They might snigger
to each other about “Kraftmann
trying to get some legal advice
on the cheap,” as characteristic
of the niggardliness of the man
for whose reputed wealth they
had a vast respect, but they took
very good care that he had no
reason to suspect them of doing
it.
Kraftmann was a big, impres-
sive man, with intense, searching
blue eyes, who wouldn’t stand
much nonsense from any. of the
“pen-pushing, counter-jumping,
penny-snatching” tribe of towns-
men. He had a jutting, aggres-
sive nose that lost a little of its
dignity because it was too easily
deflected by the scent of money ;
there were creases, too, round
his eyes, so often screwed up in
the concentration of shrewd, cal-
culating bargaining.
“Nothing new, I suppose,” he
asked, in an attempt at casual-
ness which was betrayed by the
eager watchfulness of his eyes,
“to let a man get out of a bit
more company taxation or”—
and here his heavy hands
drummed noisily on the rickety
table while he searched for a
smooth legal term to cover what
he had in mind —“or the matter
of undistributed profits?”
Johnston seemed worried ; he
was thinking that both as a
client and friend Kraftmann pre-
sented his problems.
“Look here,” he said earnestly,
leaning forward in an excess of
caution lest he be overheard, “if
you are getting into any sort of
difficulty you’d better come to
see me at my office, where we
can go into it properly. You
don’t want to give those sharks
any excuse for investigating you.
Better to throw your money
away. Let your family have it;
they’ll know how to spend it.”
But Kraftmann was sitting
up, half-offended, half-alarmed.
“A man can’t help worrying,
with all these taxes. If he didn’t
watch out he could leave his
family in a very difficult position
when he died.”
He grabbed the glasses and
made his way so hastily and
purposefully to the bar that
ordinary members spilt their beer
trying to get out of his way.
Then Kraftmann and Johnston
sat back over their cigars; the
only two men in the club who
could light cigars without invit-
ing a shower of exquisite jests:
“Where did you pick it up?”
“Look out it doesn’t go off!”
They watched with a minimum
of interest the members coming
in, in pairs or fours from the
bowling-green, mopping their
perspiring heads with identically
colored handkerchiefs, wearing
the same kind of white shirts and
trousers held together by the
same kind of belts, the same
panama hats with identical
bands, varying only in the num-
ber of badges of other clubs
which the owner had collected
in matches, like scalps gathered
on the warpath.
They were even quite unmoved
by the familiar sight of ageing
businessmen with weak hearts
tottering to the bar in a bad
way, confiding to the attendant
what would have confirmed the
cynicism of their doctors:
“Shouldn’t haye played—this
heat—not feeling my best —team
depending on me —couldn’t let
Charlie down —brandy, quick!”
A different sort of man came
in/ whose .appearance caused a
tension in the congenial atmos-
phere. He stared about with
quick, impatient jerks of his
head, obviously Ipoking for
someone who might just as easily
have been looking for fiim. A
small, dark man with alert, de-
termined eyes behind the angu-
lar, rimless glasses affected by
the keenest and most ruthless of
businessmen. Although he ap-
peared to be only about thirty,
and was one of the youngest
members, he adopted a jaunty,
overconfident attitude towards
the well-established older men,
generally accompanied by an
enigmatic smile which they felt
to be either insolent or patronis-
ing ; certainly not the way to
behave to the leading men of the
town, who considered that in
their powerful hands lay the
making or marring of his future.
He attracted none of the
hearty or boisterous greetings
which were being flung at the
nice, normal members. Not that
he appeared to care about the
omission; he walked through
the fun, the shouting and the
clowning like an Arctic explorer
walking through a colony of
seals; amusing animals, but
tending to become boringly over-
familiar. A relatively new mem-
ber, Breylfey had been damned
on his introduction into the club
by the principal of the firm of
‘ accountants who employed
him;
“This is a smart young fellow
I’ve imported from Sydney to
teach the town a few things it
ought to know.”
JHe had never been forgiven
for that, but, even if he hadn’t
been introduced so ineptly, he
could never have become popu-
lar because he always acted as
if reluctant to teach the town
things no one in it was intelli-
gent enough to learn.
To the undiscriminating he
would have appeared to be
dressed in bowling-uniform, but
it was notorious among the
members that he showed his
contempt for them by wearing
the same whites that he used for
tennis. Moreover, when playing
bowls he never used, exclama-
tions of joy or grief; he didn’t
attempt verbal remote-control
of a bowl after it had left his
hand, and he smiled pityingly on
the many who did. He discon-
certed the club humorists by not
roaring with laughter when they
told him “Bowls isn’t a game,
it’s a disease.” He appeared to
be completely indifferent to the
outcome of a game; he never
played if he could possibly get
out of it, and, most unforgiv-
able of all, he nearly always
won.
He came and stood at Kraft-
mann’s table waiting to be
noticed, in a manner not only
surprisingly modest to those who
knew him, but' also as if some-
thing very much more vital and
significant than a game of bowls
was involved in this approach.
“Mr. Kraftmann,” he said,
when he had eventually been
observed, deliberately using the
title in that jungle of Christian-
names, “I believe I have the
privilege of playing with you,”
Kraftmann did not leap to
his feet or flourish his bowling-
arm as he should have. He sat
back in his chair staring at his
opponent with deliberate non-
recognition.
“You a new man here?”
“Not quite new. My name’s
Breyley, Gregory Breyley, As
a matter of fact, I’ve been a
member here for six months,”
Without apparently intending
it, he contrived to convey that
anyone who couldn’t recognise
a man who had been in a town
as small as Jindulla for six
months wasn’t very bright.
“Office-boy in the town some-
where,” Kraftmann said, getting
up slowly as if the game was
going to be a, terrible bore.
“As a matter of facf,” Brey-
ley put on a deliberate mask of
amiability in the face of this
affront, making several eaves-
droppers at the next table, who
had been expecting him to give
Kraftmann better than he had
received, look at each other in
marked surprise, “a sort of
office-boy, Mr. Kraftmann. I
work in an office, though some-
times I’m trusted with bigger
jobs than posting the letters.”
Kraftmann had three assets in
a game of bowls—a strong deter-
mination to win; a confident
reliance in his luck, which he
exploited when things were go-
ing against him by crashing
down the last bowls in the hope
that from the riot and confusion
he might come out well; and the
forty-hour week. The last he
used to ameliorate a defeat, par-
ticularly at the hands of a
younger man, or any townsman.
“They ought to be able to play
bowls; hardly ever do anything
else. Don’t know what work is.
Practising practically all day and
night.”
So Kraftmann went to work
with all his earnestness, practi-
cally ignoring the unprecedented
efforts Breyley was making to be
social.
“I believe you have a very fine
grazing-property, Mr. Kraft-
mann.”
Then, a little later, “That’s a
beautiful car I see you driving,
Mr. Kraftmann.' I thought the
dollar-shortage had stopped those
luxury American cars coming
into the country.”
The only response was a brief
gleam in the fierce blue eyes, as
if to say, “You needn’t try to put
me off my game by yapping at
me,” or “You needn’t try to
butter me up like that.”
So Breyley, cynically aware
that several watching selectors
were mightily perturbed by his
lapse from form, set out to lose
the game without making it
apparent to his opponent. Kraft-
mann was strangely inept that
day, as if some weightier matter
was occupying his mind, so it
happened that every time Breyley
left open a nice little alley down
which he could creep and nestle
against kitty, he could never
achieve just the right amount of
control. And then, when he rolled
down his strong and ruthless
ones, everything ran the wrong
way., That friendliness which
the game of bowls is supposed to
cultivate was noticeably absent
when the two returned to the
clubroom.
“Well, I’d better buy you a
drink,” said Breyley, putting on
a grimace to show that it was
the ridiculous club “traditions”
which obliged him to remind
Kraftmann so crudely that he
had lost. Kraftmann remained
difficult; instead of exuding
some such face-saving jocularity
as “The better man won, but look
out for next time,” he inspected
the man whose name he couldn’t
remember, as if thinking, “Good
God, do I have to drink with
him as well as play with him?”
“You had rotten luck,” Brey-
ley still persisted with his un-
characteristic amiability; “you
had everything wide open for. a
kill a couple of times ; then your
hand must have slipped, or some-
thing.”
Kraftmann turned on the
younger man. “There’s no need
to make such a bloody fuss about
it,” he said, in a loud, arrogant
voice. “What’s a blasted game
of bowls, anyway?”
For a moment Breyley warmed
to Kraftmann as to a brother,
but before he could do anything
about it he was interrupted by
a momentous stir throughout the
clubroom. Dozens of pairs of
ears had heard the profanity
uttered within the precincts of
the temple itself, and dozens of
brains worked desperately to
cope with the situation.
“Hey, Alf” —from one of the
town’s chief businessmen, one
of the few members big enough
to cope with so delicate a situa-
tion, or to address Kraftmann
thus familiarly—“come over
here. I want to sell you a few
thousand steel fenceposts cheap.”
And Kr&ftmann, unconcerned
about the crisis he had provoked,
lifted his keen nose, scenting a
deal. Not that he wasn’t aware
that the flourishing of the emin-
ently desirable, and difficult-to-
acquire, fenceposts was only a
bait; but once any man had
committed himself even as little
as that, Kraftmann had a way of
getting the better of him. He
finished his drink quickly, neg-
lected to buy Breyley one in
return, and left him with a curt,
absentminded nod.
Breyley hurried from the club,
past the line of waiting cars
parked at the kerb, until he came
to the luxury American car
which he had recently admired
so ineffectually in his overtures
to its owner. Almost before he
had identified the car he was
aware of a girl leaning out of it,
waving her hand. /
“Come and sit in here,
Gregory,” she said.
Breyley sent a thoughtful
glance back to the clubhouse,
then said with an air of mature
consideration,
“It might be better, Rhoda, if
you got out and we walked along
the street a bit.”
Kraftmann’s daughter regis-
tered a ‘ brief but poignant dis-
appointment. Beside her on the
back seat she had cleared the
car of the large parcels, cartons
and coats with which country-
people fill up their cars. Here
she could have sat in all dignity
while passers-by looked in
curiously, to notice that she,
Rhoda Kraftmann, had an un-
doubted admirer, and he a man
of significance in the town.
She got out of the car, careful
of her hat and dress, which were
smart and of good material
rather than pretty, indicating that
she had made a sensible evalua-
tion of her type. She was well
into the twenties, a little over
average height, active and ener-
getic in appearance. She had a
modified version of her father’s
aquiline nose and watchful blue
eyes. There was quite a lot of
his determination in her face,
which was otherwise pleasantly
agreeable. She had an air of
exhilaration as if she was step-
ping out into an enormous adven-
ture ; but also an awareness that
in doing so she was putting
herself at a disadvantage.
They walked along the foot-
path where almoct everybody
knew them, at least by sight, each
appearing to be well enough
pleased to be seen with the other,
but with none of the unconscious
absorption in each other which


is characteristic of the youthful
and the headlong
“It was a failure ” Breyley said,
in his definite calculated busi-
nessman’s voice “It was a mis-
take to approach him among all
those performing seals.”
Rhoda glanced at him dis-
pnnninted B hut also admiring him
fnr P his caiidid admission and his
dear sightedness
she putting warmth into the
your idea,”
said Brevlev • “bm vou’ll need
You
dnn’t want tn make him think
dont want to make him thmk
that you re bringing me m as a
sort of policeman. It will h
to be as your friend, see.
Rhoda smiled at him with
significance. “Yes, I see. But I
know he’ll object. Even if jou
come as a very good friend
Breyley met her smile candidly,
'assessing every shade of meaning
!)° IC n , . ,
Thats all light; a very
imnd, who s known you at the
tennis-club for quite a while. A
good enough friend to take an
interest not only in you, but in
ah that affects your family as
well.
“I suppose that would be
enough for a beginning.”
She eyed him a little wistfully,
as if she would have liked to say
more on that score ; then decided
against it. Breyley swung along,
his arms moving in energetic
jerks to keep pace with his
darting mind.
“I’ve had this matter in the
back of my mind all the week.
I did the books of six different
graziers and there wasn’t one of
fhem who wasn’t ' throwing
money down4he drain”
1
Father wouldn’t throw money
down the dram, you can
ma^ e . up y ° ur m ! nd about that,
These chaps didn t think they
were either,” Breyley said with a
calm omniscience. “It was just
that they didn’t plan their ex-
penditure. They spent it on the
wrong things, or at the wrong
time, or just tried to save it and
ended up by having to pay it
away in income tax. I tell you,
it’s a very exact science, the
handling of money these days.”
Rhoda turned to him, as much
gratified at his profound know-
ledge as at the message of hope
and joy he was bringing her.
“Even if Father is much more
efficient in his managing,” she
said with noticeable family pride,
“you still think you’d be able to
show where he could improve
things?”
“I said before”—Breyley let
her know wiffi his tone S she
ally—“that Accountancy is a
SSSi
evervbodv who takes a few pills
rr.tr.W
would von?”
would you?
“Oh no Gregory,” said RJioda,
enormously gratified. He was the
equivalent of a doctor, the near-
est approach most country towns
can make to a title.
CHAPTER II
i,™,.
T™ buffi by the more
prosperous land-owner up to and
First World War
dSterfand
wnen wives, daughters ana ser
ana easily repiaceaoie ir iosi or
worn out.
It was of brick, the front
door opened on to a hall along
which were the formal drawing-
room and dining-room and
P °t me bedrooms. At the
hack of the house v me hall
widened into a large vestibule
wk } ch was also the week-day
ea ting-room for the family and
such haads as 1 ate r widl them.
Along the , s [ de ?. °[ lts walls
J'®*® ranged the klt chen, pantry,
office > all P la ced in disregard
oi f the then-unconsidered science
° u f ste Pi a vmg which obliged
those doing the housework to
cross the vestibule hundreds of
times during the day.
. Flalfway down the hall was
a n archway with a beaded cur-
tain, presumably designed to
segregate the living and sleeping
parts of the house from the re-
fined people being entertained
i n the front. But, owing to a
certain amount of rationalisa-
tion, the formal dining-room had
been moved to a position more-
or-less accessible to the kitchen,
so that even the most distin-
guished guests had to pass
through the curtain if they
stayed for a meal.
A wide veranda with fancy
cast-iron decorations along the
eaves ran all round the house to
keep it cool. There was a large
flower-garden with lawns, palms
and shrubs in front and at the
sides, a little run wild these days
when even country women
didn’t seem able to get as much
work done as they used to ; a
vegetable-garden at the back,
adequate to provide the needs of
all the family and anyone else
likely to be at the homestead,
all watered from a tank on a
high stand which was kept
filled by a windmill pumping
from a dam.
Although it was Sunday morn-
ing, Kraftmann was busy. He
was paying in a manner par-
ticularly excruciating to him for
the advantages of living in an
increasingly well - organised
society. After the Kraftmann
family’s two generations of
strenuous pioneering and spec-
tacular prosperity it was an
abiding grief to the grandson of
the landless German peasant
who had come to Australia
little more than a century before
to find it quite impossible to
make similar progress by the
same methods of hard work and
strenuous saving. Taxation, as
he was prepared to tell anyone,
had halted progress, stifled am-
bition and ruined incentive.
It was to mitigate, as far as
possible, the incidence of taxa-
tion that he had formed his
property into a private com-
pany, the shares held by mem-
bers of his family. The fact
that he hadn’t had the actuarial
training desirable, according to
official regulations, in one run-
ning a company did not con-
cern him in the least. He had
invented his own methods of
bookkeeping, which he claimed
were adequate for anybody, and
which would have been simple
enough if he hadn’t introduced
certain well-meant practices to
“protect the family’s interests.”
Every now and then, to re-
lieve the pressure on his brain,
he pushed away from his big
oaken roll-top desk with its
dozens of pigeonholes labelled
“Sheep Sold,” “Rams Bousht”
“Ewes Mated,” “Calves Born,”
to tramp heavily across the vesti-
bule and ring the breakfast-bell.
This was not to indicate to his
sleeping family that he had pre-
pared breakfast for them, but
that he was getting tired of wait-
ing for them to get the meal for
him.
At eight o’clock, a time arbi-
trarily appointed by herself, his
younger daughter Rhqda came
padding down the long hall,
wearing tennis - shoes, partly
to give herself speed and
manoeuvrability, partly to get
her money’s-worth out of shoes
no longer considered good
enough to wear on the courts.
“You needn’t ring the bell
any more. Father,” she called,
cheerfully enough, to her parent.
, When he didn’t answer, she*
repeated it, in a persistent tone
that demanded an answer.
“Oh, yes, all right,” Kraft-
mann’s voice came impatiently
as if he’d been caught in the
middle of adding a long column
of figures ; then he remembered
to add what was expected of
him: “That’s a good girl.”
Rhoda sped into the kitchen,
accelerated by the deserved
compliment, and switched on
twice as many electrical acces-
sories as she could handle at the
one time. The kitchen, so old
in design, had recently been elec-
trified from the power-main
that went striding across their
paddocks, and fitted in a jumbled
and disorderly manner with
every useful modern appliance.
Only, the prodigious size of the
old kitchen prevented it from
being an impassable jungle with
its gadgets crowding each other,
and, overhead, a web of exten-
sion-cords and dangling plugs,
one of which, everyone was cer-
tain, would some day surely
electrocute Rhoda.
The use of 1 these devices gave
to the work of the kitchen a
sense Of adventure for Rhoda,
yet at the same time an uneasy
feeling of guilt, since every unit
of electricity would have to be
paid for; whereas had she used
the fuel-stove (still retained in
the kitchen in an excess of
caution) the only expense in-
volved would have been the
bringing-in of the firewood.
She had the industry and self-
importance of a girl who,
through her own overabundance
of energy, her innate house-
keeping ability and her passion
for efficiency, has taken over
from her mother’s unresisting
hands most of the responsibility
of running the household. To
her it was a perfectly logical and
necessary step to take. If the
house wasn’t run well the
“property” suffered in that the
men did not get out to work in
good time ; and if the property
suffered she suffered as a share-
holder.
A person did not need to be
very bright to understand that.
Although she had never said
anything about it, she had long
deplored her mother’s habit of
reading books in bed until, late
every night, und, as a conse-
quence, of being slow to rise in
the mornings; a laxity which
could have been one of the
causes of the mysterious drain
on the family’s prosperity, a
drain which, despite the appear-
ance of the large, well-managed
and generally admired property,
still kept the dividends paid to
the shareholders so disappoint-
ingly low.
Rhoda’s face was intent and
concentrated; minute-chasing
and second-conscious. She got a
robust enjoyment put of her
contest with inexorable time.
She had had her hair cut short
in the interests of efficiency;
then, deciding that it made her
look older than she was, she had
had it put into tight frizzy waves
which gave it rather the appear-
ance of a curled wig, such as
was worn by the handsome
young gentlemen of the Regency
period. Time, she knew, was
her enemy, stealing the minutes
from her while she was getting
the breakfast ready and rushing
her towards that age when her
German-speaking grandmother
would have said, very regret-
fully, that she was noch zu
haben ; still to be had.
Several times she stepped
quietly out into the lobby to
observe her father through the
partly open door of his office.
The intensity of his efforts led
her to a certain conclusion ; so
after returning to the kitchen
to put her switches, on to the
“simmer” position she poured a
cup of tea with extreme care as
(<Continued on next page )
“Have any of you any objection to me bringing a friend to the meeting ?” They all stopped eating, even putting down their knives and forks to stare at her .


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to-
NAME
ADDRESS
/
12 months £l/16/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £9 Foreign .... £2/10/-,
C Please add exchange to country cheques)
Public Notices
r, JUMIKIS TAUTMILIS, also known as
THOMAS, of Latvian nationality, born at
Daugauplls (Dunaburg), Latvia, resident
six years in Australia, now residing at
27a Homedale Orescent, Hurstville,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
I, FRANCOIS ALOISE QEIST, of French
nationality, bom at Dettvoiller (France),
resident 4j years in Australia, now resid-
ing at National Park Road, Campbell-
town, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship Act,
The name is
CD'Cdluims
the whisky Is
nTCdUuTOS
Scots OJhisly
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC2I/3Z
to its strength, the quantities of
sugar and milk, walked rapidly
up the hall with it and knocked
at her brother’s door.
“I thought you might like a
cup of tea, Alec,” she said.
Her brother sat up with the
labored gratitude of people
wakened for an early cup of
tea. He ran a hand through his
hair, which was longer and more
carefully trimmed than the pre-
vailing short-clipped country
hair, and rubbed his eyes in
the effort to wake up.
“Thought I’d have a hang-
over, did you?”
“Oh, no, I just thought it
would be good for you.” ,
Rhoda smiled at him affec-
tionately. Her brother fulfilled
her conception of what a
country gentleman should look
like. He had been an officer in
the Army, though only at the
end of the war after a long
struggle up from the ranks. She
thought him good-looking with
his regular features, his sophis-
ticated brown eyes and his
movie-actor moustache. His
Middle East and New Guinea
souvenirs gave to his room an
atmosphere suggestive of a man
of the world who was also a bit
of a rake.
“I wanted to talk to you, too.
I think Father is going to
announce our Annual Share-
holders’ Meeting. He is acting
in the extra-important, oVer-
busy way he always does about
this time each year.”
Alec yawned with an indiffer-
ence which Rhoda both admired
and deplored. Her voice
assumed great significance as
she went on.
“If he does I’m going to make
a suggestion. I was hoping that
you would help me a bit. You
might make things easier for
me if you knew what I was
doing.”
“If your father doesn’t want,”
Alec warned her, “you’ll only
cause trouble and get nowhere.”
Rhoda registered tense deter-
mination. She sat on the foot
of Alec’s bed and looked
earnestly into his gyeS.
“I’ve been doing a lot of
thinking lately,” she said. “Do
you know what’s happening to
me? I’m becoming an old
maid.”
Alec made 'a deprecating
noise. He sipped at his tea to
cover his inability to comment.
“Just like the McDermott and
the Pulsford girls. Do you
know why so many country girls
don’t get married, especially
those on the bigger and better
places? Because they never get
a chance to think about them-
selves ! All their lives they have
to think about what is good for
the property, and then, all of a
sudden, they find they’ve turned
into sour old women.”
“Now, now,” Alec protested,
“no one could say that you are
old or sour. You’re a nice,
lively young girl.”
Rhoda permitted herself a
brief, gratified smile, but was
not to be put off.
“I’ll soon get that way if I
go on like this.”
Alec toyed thoughtfully with
his cup, but, as it was obviously
empty, Rhoda took it from him
so that he would have to give
her his full attention. He took
a shrewd look at her face and
said “Well, go on, then.”
“It’s not easy,” Rhoda averted
her head and straightened the
bedcover with her habitually
busy hands. “There’s a man I’ve
got to know lately. We’ve be-
, come quite friendly. He’s a
very clever businessman, and we
talk a lot about business affairs.
He says I’ve got a very good
business-sense.”
Alec restrained a smile, and
said in a dry though kindly
tone, “I understand that it was
more usual for the approach to
be made by way of books or
music,”
Rhoda gave him a brief, dis-
tressed .glance, then went on
purposefully, “Oh, I know he’s
not perfect. I know that he’s
not overpopular with the men
of the town. But they all admit
that he’s very clever and likely
to be a big success. That’s
. better than being like Betty
Pulsford; marrying a ‘Little
Brother’ migrant station-hand
about half her age when she’s
forty-five and being left cold as
soon as he’s had a grand fling
with her money.”
Alec smoothed back his hair
and furrowed his brow. “If
you’re interested in the same
things I suppose that’s a good
sign. In fact, I expect it’s a very
good indication.”
“Oh, it is. I’m sure,” Rhoda
said with a kind of hopeful
enthusiasm. “I do like clever
men; men who are a bit
sophisticated and know their
way about in the world. I’d
rather have a man like that than
just the good-natured and simple
kind.”
“I suppose you know what
suits you,” Alec said, “but I
don’t see just what it’s got to do
with our annual meeting.”
“It’s hard to explain”—
Rhoda kept taking shy, nervous
glances at Alec, fearful that she
was not winning the sympathy
she §o badly needed —“but I
don’t want him to have any
reason to think that after all our
talk I’m only a mug at business,”
“I don’t get you,” Alec said,
puzzled.
Rhoda had arrived at the real
climax of her interview:
“Well, are you satisfied with
the dividends we’ve been getting
the last few years? Think of
the prices we’ve been getting for
our wool!”
Alec looked at her search-
ingly.
“If he’s been urging you to
get more money out of the com-,
pany, I wouldn’t say that was a
very good sign.”
Rhoda stood up, agitated, as
if to go.
“I was afraid you wouldn’t
understand. It’s not the money
I’m after, but I don’t want to
be done out of it if I should be
getting it. Can’t you see? I
don’fwant to be shown up as a
poor innocent when I’ve con-
vinced him that I’ve got a
shrewd business head. It would
make me feel so foolish if he
ever found out. Besides, even
though I’m not greedy for the
money, I don’t want the handi-
cap of not having it. But now
I’m sure you won’t understand
that either.”
Alec reached out and took
her by the hand to stop her
rushing from the room.
“What do you want me to do,
Sis?”
“Oh, if you’ll only under-
stand that whatever I do —and
I don’t know what I’ll do now,
it’s so hard to decide —if you’ll
only realise that I’m not trying
to be nasty, and trying to make
trouble.”
Alec .patted her on the arm,
“I’ll understand that, old girl.
And I’ll back you up if I can,
though I think the old man is a
pretty good manager.”
Rhoda smiled at him, half
tearful with gratitude. She made
a sudden movement to embrace
him, changed her mind, planted
a hurried, inexpert kiss on his
cheek, and rushed out of the
room.
In the kitchen she rang the
breakfast-bell; then became in-
volved in a tremendous effort
to complete her breakfast
arrangements before everyone
arrived.
The first to appeal; was
Johnny. Johnny was something
between a valued permanent
employee and a de facto adopted
son. While still in his childhood,
and with precocious determina-
tion, he had abandoned his own
family and adopted the Kraft-
manns at the time when his
mother had insisted on his father
leaving the Kraftmann employ-
ment and cottage because
Kraftmann was taking over the
training of Johnny as if he was
his own property. Since Johnny
was an undoubted asset on the
place, they were happy to allow
things to go on as they were.
Johnny, unlike the big, broad-
shouldered Kraftmann men, was
slim and dark, with that limber,
active look of the grand old-
style, now almost extinct, farm-
hand, who was always so busy
that he never had time to stand
,up straight not the kind
now plundering the country far
and wide, shearing the sheep,
cutting the timber, erecting the
fences, scooping out the irriga-
tion - channels, building the
electric power-lines, all at the
most remunerative contract-
rates, that should have put him
into the higher-taxation groups
if only his mobility didn t make
him so elusive to the revenue-
collectors. Johnny, now twenty-
five years old, remained year
after year at the Kraftmanns.
* Rhoda gave him a smile,
warmer and more possessive
than his status seemed to
warrant. ' >
“Good old Johnny, you re
always the first to come. Could
you smell what I was cooking,
or did you want to have a nice
little talk with me before the
others arrived?” [
All the time she was speaking
she watching his demeanor.
the nature of his answering
smile, the habitual shy evasive-
ness of his eyes.
He answered in a pleasant,
drawling voice produced unde?
some pressure from the tight
muscled tube of his body, “I
thought I’d be here before any-
one else.”
™ “
w p 0 ° r sf ring the an > biB “ ity
4hat did you do in town
iast night?” she wanted to know,
e y es continually returning to
from her work,
wen j- tke talkies. They
weren ’ t muc h good.”
“Who did you go with?”
“Oh, Reg ind some other
blokes.”
Rhoda relaxed. Then went on,
went a dance afterwards,
j thought I’d better wait and
CO me home with Alec, I heard
he was knocking the grog at
that club the nobs go to.”
Two lines of worry appeared
on Rhoda’s face, but her next
question was not about her
brother.
“Were there any nice girls at
the dance?”
“I dunno. I didn’t see any,”
Johnny answered.
* But Rhoda was not satisfied.
“Which one did you dance
with the most?”
“Don’t know. Didn’t dance
with any of them much.”
Rhoda studied him, suspicious
that this might not be
indifference but evasiveness,
Then she said with a sudden
impulse^
R s * 1 shouldn t be
worrying about what you do.
But there’s something I’d like
to tell you because it might
make a difference to our friend-
ship, though really it shouldn’t.”
She went up to Johnny, took
his hand with an embarrassed
gesture, and looked into his
face with a worried expression ;
but just then her father came in,
saw the tableau, and scowled.
The rest of the family came
close behind him. They all
greeted Rhoda in the hearty
“good old Rhoda” manner
which her personality seemed to
demand; then gradually settled
down to their places at the
table, while she bustled about
putting switches on again to
“hot things up,” and bringing
them their plates, not forgetting
the particular tastes for hard,
soft or medium eggs of each of
them, or neglecting to remind
them that she had remembered.
She made the most fuss over
her brother.
“Good old Rhoda,” he said,
as she handed him his plate;
“the only person in the world
who can fry an egg on both
sides and not overdo it on
either.”
Nevertheless, he poked at it
without enthusiasm.
“Aren’t you feeling well?” his
mother asked him, with solici-
tude which seemed rather to
irritate him. He looked at her
sternly for some time before he
answered her. His mother was
smaller and darker than her
daughters, and, like Alec, she had
thoughtful brown eyes and none
of the self-assured aggressive-
ness of Kraftmann.
“I’m well,” Alec said at last,
still looking reproachfully at his
mother, “but 1 feel tired. I had
a talk with one of your religious
friends last night and it nearly
drove me to drink. I was going
to tell him about some of the
horrors of war when do you
know what he did? He cut in
ahead of me and said ‘Oh, 1
know it must have been terrible
for ail of our young men’ —
meaning, of course, those be-
longing to his religion —‘It must
have been really terrible for
them; couldn’t get to a service
of our church for months, or
even years! ’ ”
He stared round at them all,
incensed because they were not
reacting as he had expected. His
mother was worried, his father
indifferent to such refinement of
feeling, Rhoda puzzled, though
eager to be sympathetic, Johnny
abashed because it was no busi-
ness of his. Only Viki, the other
daughter, seemed to understand.
She gave a loud, ringing, rather
theatrical laugh which drew
everyone’s attention to her, as
was no doubt intended.
Viki was a little older than
Rhoda, but she looked dither a
good deal older or a lot younger,
according to the degree of
sophistication in the observer.
To Johnny, for instance, she
looked much younger, because
he had no conception of what
could be achieved by grooming
and cosmetics. To her mother,
sensitive to the signs left by ruth-
less ambition and the anxieties
of a professional career in the
city, she looked immeasurably
older than Rhoda, so unmarred
in her comparatively sheltered
existence.
Viki was a decidedly good-
looking girl with the unusual
{Continued on page 24)


w
FROM THE RANGE OF McCORMICK INTERNATIONAL
TRACTORS AND MATCHED EQUIPMENT
VVheatgrowers and diversified farmers will appreciate the many new features
of the Super AW-6 and AWD-6 tractors. These two new McCormick Inter-
national tractors give you a choice of diesel or kerosene power, plus the
choice from a full line of matched equipment! Equipment that is matched
in size, weight and speed of operation to make each tractor into a powerful
and economical combination for ploughing, scarifying, discing, seeding and
harvesting.
Choose your power wisely choose from the McCormick International range
of machines for the complete mechanization of wheat areas, orchards, grazing
properties, vineyards, row crops and many other phases of farming.
More "Profit-making" Features
MORE POWER from the drawbar with wide base tyres and more powerful engine
for kerosene or diesel operation. MORE ACRES per hour with faster gear speeds.
Larger sizes of equipment matched to the increased power of the Super tractors.
MORE COMFORT for the operator. Re-positioned foot pedals, hydraulic control,
smoother ride. MORE VERSATILITY with full lines of matched 3-point-linkage and
remote-controlled trailing equipment.
See your local IH dealer today and arrange with him for a demonstration of the
McCormick International tractor of your choice on your farm.
i
pea
THREE-POINT LINKAGE. For British No. 2 Standard
dimensions. The "carry-lift" platform has a 10 cwt.
capacity and 13 sq. ft. area.
A.S.A.E. STANDARD P.T.O.
Splined shaft operates at 540
RPM with full engine power.
ADJUSTABLE DRAWBAR.
Five heights! Swinging draw-
bar regular on Super Series.
REMOTE-CONTROL. Two-way hydraulic cylinder of
Standard ASAE dimensions is operated from tractor
seat for depth adjustment and transport.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. OF AUST. PTY. LTD, (INC. IN VIC.) DISTRICT SALES OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES. WORKS: DANDENONG AND GEELONG, VICTORIA.
International
BUILDER OF ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT
é
Harvester


Test after test
controls
GOODYEAR
quality
QUALITY CONTROL. One of the most
important contributing factors to
Goodyear’s leadership is “quality
control.” Stationed at every key
point in the movement of materials
that go into Goodyear Tyres is one
or more men, each of whom is
eternally alert to detect any deviation
from the rigid standards of Goodyear
quality. This close watch is kept at
every point from the source of crude
rubber to the shipping room from
which Goodyear Tyres are routed to
customers via Goodyear dealers.
MANY SEPARATE TESTS. While all
tyre manufacturers bring together
rubber, compounding materials and
the many other raw materials that
go into a tyre to produce the finished
product, only within Goodyear are
all the many precautions taken, that
ensure each finished Goodyear Tyre
being of the same consistent quality
as every other Goodyear Tyre in the
same tyre group.
irs YOUR MONEY! When yon buy
a tyre you want to get the utmost in
value for your money. The only way
you can judge the quality of a tyre
is by the performance which the tyre
gives. The “quality control” the
rigid inspections that Goodyear Tyres
must pass at every stage of manufac-
ture—makes certain that you can
expect—and get—maximum trouble-
free service from Goodyear Tyres.
By buying more Goodyears than any
other tyre, the public demonstrates
its appreciation of the results of
Goodyear’s Constant vigilance. When
you remember that every year since
1915 it has been true: “More people,
the world over, ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other tyre,” it is
clear that you,
too, will find
Goodyear
Tyres best
on your
car.
Vlhy nst get
1
-it costs no more
I
CBsa
m s » >
* Pnc&TnJw/ta&tS
Gordons
ê
BY APPOINTMENT
QIN DISTILLERS
to the late KING GEORGE Y 1
Tanqueray Gordon ft Co. 14
combination of fair hair and
brown eyes which never failed,
when assisted by her art, to
attract attention. She wore her
hair softly curled, at shoulder-
length or arranged in exotic
coiffures. Her eyes were bright
and worldly-wise, though she
could contrive to make them
softly babyish when it suited her.
Had her peasant-type grand-
mother seen her she would have
been too astonished at having
such a granddaughter to say that
she was noch zu haben. Viki
was still unmarried; she had,
as it were, bypassed that
ceremony.
“I find men too useful,” she
would say, with one of her gay
laughs, “to tie myself perman-
ently to one. But some day
when I get tired of my career I
might marry, if I can find a
good-Jooking millionaire with
liberal ideas about a wife’s
responsibilities.”
Even when alone with her
family she acted as if she were
at some sort of social gathering
where it was important that she
be prominent. After focusing
their attention on her, she said,
with a wealth of vocal inflection
and gesture:
“Oh, those funny old
Lutherans, They never think of
anything but church. Sometimes
I run across one of them visiting
Sydney. They seem so happy
to see me ; I have to pretend I
remember them until they
accidentally drop a clue. They
always say to me, T thought I’d
see you at Sydney church last
Sunday.’ Gosh, I can hardly
keep from laughing. Here they
are, on one of the few visits
they ever made to a city, and
with all of Sydney to look at
they shuffle off to that seedy
little church.”
She mimicked the voice of an
old country woman again:
“I looked for you everywhere
before church went in, and when
we came out again I watched
for you at the door. And when
I couldn't see you anywhere I got
quite worried because I thought
you must be sick. But you don’t
look sick at all, you've got such
a beautiful red color in your
cheeks.”
Viki stopped to laugh again,
and all except ( Johnny, who
couldn’t quite see the point,
joined her; even her mother,
though she could not approve,
had to laugh.
“Then I said to her—you
know, I quite liked the dear old
thing for being so concerned
about me—‘l’m not like you. I
don’t stay away from church
when I’m sick, that’s the only
time I go, because then I think
I might die and go to hell if 1
don’t repent.’ Then her eyes
opened so wide, she didn’t know
what to make of me. She was too
sweet to think I was making fun
of her. She waggled her lips
about, not knowing what to say,
but just when I thought I was
getting away from her, she up
and said. That’s all right, staying
away from church when you’re
well and going when you’re sick ;
but you want to take care you
don’t make any mistake and get
one of those sicknesses where
you up and die before you have
a chance to go to church.’ Gosh
it sounded funny, coming out of
her so seriously. I took her off
at the cocktail-party I was going
to. It was a scream. I must go
and see her while I’m home.”
Into the not wholly approving
silence which followed Kraft-
manh projected the kind of
cough which had warned the
family ever since they had been
children that he was about to
say grace or make an announce-
ment of some importance.
“On Sunday week we’ll have
our annual shareholders’
meeting.”
He glared at them because it
offended his sense of justice to
have to submit his management
for their uncomprehending and
largely unappreciative approval.
Their reactions were varied.
Viki raised her eyebrows; Alec
put on a bored, rather resentful
expression. Mrs. Kraftmann
uneasily pulled her dressing-
gown round her and retied the
girdle. Symbolically she was
girding-up her loins, because she
always thought in Biblical terms
in times of crisis. She had an
astonishing intuition when a
crisis was on the way; but on
this occasion she needed no help
from the occult powers because
Rhoda was acting in a very
excited and agitated manner.
After a few moments wrapt in
tense inner conflict, she got to
her feet, hurried to the stove as
to a tried and reliable refuge, and
rattled the saucepans with an
overemphatic industry. But
finding that, instead of escaping,
she was drawing everyone’s
attention to herself, she turned to
them with a pleading look, and
said, “Have any of you any
objection to me bringing a friend
to the meeting?'’
They all stopped eating, even
putting down their knives and
forks to stare at her. Alec
became cautiously watchful, Viki
looked likely to burst into
laughter, while Johnny
straightened himself up, taking
rapid, uneasy glances at Rhoda
and her father; her mother
seemed to be saying silent
prayers, while her father fixed
her with an awful, judgelike,
motive-searching stare, quiet and
still except for minute changes
in the expression of his eyes, as
he considered the situation.
Rhoda watched him steadfastly,
obviously perturbed at the effect
she had caused, but as deter-
mined as he was.
“A friend?” Alec exclaimed,
in an attempt to break down the
heavy seriousness. “What sort
of a friend?”
Rhoda replied without deflect-
ing her attention from her
father.
“A man friend,” she said,
adopting a more confident
attitude. “And a very clever
man, too.”
Viki opSned her darkened
eyelids wide at the word “clever,”
just as she would have if Rhoda
had said “rich” or “influential.”
“If he really is clever,” she
said, unbelievingly, “why does he
bury himself in a place like
Jindulla?”
Kraftmann rapped the table
sharply.
“We don’t want any of your
nonsense, Viki. Try to keep
serious for once.”
Then he turned to Rhoda,
addressing her not as her
managing-director, but as a
parent admonishing a foolish
child:
“Don’t be silly, Rhoda. Of
course we can’t have anyone else
present. It’s a private business
affair, of no concern to anyone
but ourselves.”
The mother, still pulling and
retying her girdle more and more
tightly round her plump figure,
said placatingly, “Now, Rhoda,
now, girl; don’t cross your
father.”
But Rhoda was obstinate.
“Just tell me why not!” she said,
sounding rather like a defiant
schoolgirl.
Kraftmann’s tanned face be-
came a shade ruddier. Un-
doubtedly he was thinking of
how his parents would have dealt
with a girl who behaved like
that, or his German grand-
parents. A good solid stick
across the behind. He was
ashamed of the patient, reason-
able words which the artificial
Circumstances constrained him
to bring forth.
“Of course we can’t have any
strangers present! Why, all
companies are most particular
about not letting anyone but
shareholders be at their
meetings.”
“Who is he, anyway? Let’s
get that straight first,” Alec
suggested. “It might be a
pleasant sort of fellow who
wouldn’t worry any of us at all.”
Rhoda braced herself, pale and
tense.
“It’s Gregory Breyley,” she
said ; then sat back clenching her
hands and holding her breath
while waiting for the significance
of the name, and the profession,
to start an explosion.
* (To be continued)


Between
Ourselves
\Vt
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
An Office-boy’s. Odyssey
4. —Colorful Perth Characters
By J. E. WEBB
I FOUND Perth a delightful
place from the beginning.
Indeed, the change from
Kalgoorlie, so flat and hot,
to a city beautiful with a mild
climate, together with the decided
improvement in my position,
seems to have turned my head a
bit; anyway, I did a reckless
thing. Without having a home
to offer, and before I could even
be certain that I would go on
drawing my four pounds a week,
I married—at 21,
And I didn’t have Hayward’s
friendly direction long. He fell
out with MacCallum Smith, who
was rapidly getting control of the
“Sunday Times” and the Kal-
goorlie “Sun,” his much more
likeable partner having developed
a weakness for the bright lights ;
and Hayward had to go. I was
so free in my expressions of sym-
pathy with him that I nearly
went too. In fact, Mac Smith’s
accountant, a dry fellow except
when he was in his cups, slapped
a letter on my office table with
the words “Here’s the Noble
Order of the Sack.” It was
only meant as a warning, and
when the time was up I was
allowed to continue as if nothing
had been written; but for a
month I felt as if there were a
noose round my neck.
Our next editor was Tommy
Walker, one of the breed of
“characters” then to be found in
the journalism and public life of
every State. A short, stocky man
with a parsonical face, except
that he—then at least—sported
a moustache, he had been a
rising hope of the progressive
forces in N. S. Wales, attracting
even the patronage of Parkes,
but had spoilt it all by going on
wild benders, in one of which he
blazed away with a revolver and
shot a clergyman.
The latter, recovering, behaved
in a truly Christian spirit, and
helped Tommy to get away to
the West, where he soon found
a market for his sledgehammer
articles. He delivered powerful
philippics also in a commanding
voice, and Labor began to regard
him with favor —cautiously,
though, for he had not been
Labor in Sydney, and it was no
secret that he had pursued C. Y.
O’Connor so relentlessly that the
widow blamed him for O’Con-
nor’s self-caused death. This
never worried Tommy. He was
no sensitive plant, and he hadn’t
a vestige of humor.
I got along well with Walker
till he left the paper for politics.
He was returned for a safe gold-
fields seat, and so at the same
time was Wallace Nelson, editor
of the “Worker” at Kalgoorlie,
another “character.”
+ +
Very small, a tireless talker,
and something of a wit. Nelson
had had to contend with a
spoken charge that he bore no
distant resemblance to a dressed-
up ape. “When the interjector
tells me I look like a monkey,”
Wallace thundered, “he insults
me. If I were to tell him he
looks like a monkey I would
insult the monkey.”
But poor little Nelson, having
no “pull,” disappeared from Par-
liament after one term. Walker
remained, began to study law,
passed all his exams and, while
still a member, was called to the
Bar—no mean achievement for
a man approaching the sixties.
He even became Attorney-
General.
Walker was succeeded on the
“Sunday Times” by Jack Dray-
ton, who himself had had a tem-
pestuous career in Sydney. There
he edited the “Referee” and
helped to make it as good a,
sporting paper as Australia has
had; and in appearance and
bearing he would have passed
for one of the old boxers he
wrote about so interestingly. For
he was a racy writer, with an
extensive range of subjects and
a prodigious output. Editorials,
general articles on all manner of
topics, pars (The Bulletin, ft
was said, had hailed him as
the best paragraphist in Aus-
tralia) and verse flowed from his
pen.
With myself helping to the
best of my ability and “Dry-
blower” (Edwin Greenslade)
Murphy always on hand with
two' rippling columns headed
“Verse and Worse,” the “Sunday
Times” became, to MacCallum
Smith at least, as asserted on
hoardings and the inside of
trams, “the biggest weekly paper
in the British Empire,” presently
to be altered by Drayton himself
to “the biggest waste of paper in
the British Empire.” By this time
he was contributing to “Truth.”
For Drayton, too, had fallen
out with MacCallum Smith. The
quarrel ended with his gathering
up his private papers and stamp-
ing out of the office; and I
was left to do the editing for a
couple of weeks. At the end of
that time I mildly asked Mac-
Callum Smith who was to suc-
ceed Drayton. “You," he said.
And so I became an editor at
23, on £6 a week, raised in the
course of 15 years to £l2. These
days many a typist would turn
up her little nose if offered that.
I found the job congenial and
did a power of work. Mac-
Callum Smith was a trial, but
him I avoided as much as pos-
sible, wholly on Mondays, which
were free to the staff in con-
sideration of its working all
Saturday, often well into Sun-
day-morning. My Mondays I
spent in glorious King’s Park,
lunching at the kiosk and emerg-
ing occasionally from a track
through the trees (“Enter these
enchanted woods You who
dare”) for glimpses of the Swan
River, here broadening into
lovely bays.
My sole companion was a little
wire-haired fox-terrier, whom I
had found one morning, whim-
pering and wagging his tail, at
my front gate, and who used to
trot beside me a mile or so to
the office and settle down com-
fortably in the w.p.b., pulled
down for his accommodation,
and trot back at the end of the
day’s work. This was his loved
routine for upwards of ten years ;
then, going out for the “West,”
as I did when I made his ac-
quaintance, I found him lying
dead at that very gate.
I have never had another dog.
In one matter MacCallum
Smith had his way. “I want a
libel action,” he used to say as if
the wish were a command; and
I got him one. It was a libel on
Paddy Connolly, who dominated
W.A. racing at that time —he
harvested Perth Cups and won
the Melbourne Cup with Blue
Spec—concerning the in-and-out
running of a horse called Czare-
vitch ; and Connolly, a tall, thin-
faced, sour-looking man who
ran pubs as well as horses, sued
for thumping damages.
The hearing lasted many days,
and despite the heroic efforts of
Herb Norton, our stout and jolly
sporting writer, the evidence had
obviously gone against us when
the jury retired. It was away for
The writer, of these articles,
John E. Webb, was editor of
The Bulletin from 1933 until
1948.
hours, and, informing the judge
that it had failed to arrive at a
verdict, was sent back for other
hours, unanimity being required.
Finally the foreman announced
that the panel had agreed, to
disagree; and that was the end
of the case, each side paying its
own costs.
It came out that the foreman
was the one juryman who had
stuck out against giving the plain-
tiff four-figure damages, and that
would assuredly have meant Mr.
Smith giving me the push; but
Connolly’s litigious fever had
abated and he never sought
another trial.
In his exultation Mr. Smith
hired a tram capable of accom-
modating the whole staff and
private friends, and in this, on the
night of the disagreement, with
the words “The ‘Times’ Wins the
Case” picked out in lights, we
careered through the Perth
streets. Before he subsided into
his native canniness the pro-
prietor did more; sent me to
London to report the 1911
Coronation, with a whole £lOO
for expenditure on doing the
thing handsomely, as befitted
“the biggest Sunday paper in the
British Empire” ; and I kept in-
side the limit.
+ + .
Those were the days! With a
“Press” reduction of 15 per cent,
each way, passage - money
(second-class P. and O. and
second-class Orient) came to £76,
and the other £24 sufficed for
bed and board, a journey to
Stratford-on-Avon and even a
Coronation-seat outside Buck-
ingham Palace, got for me as a
favor (as he didn’t neglect to
remind me) by the W.A. Agent-
General, affectionately known to
us when Premier, from a more
or less fancied resemblance, as
“Buglepumpkin” Moore.
From the seat outside the
Palace I had, of course, a first-
class view of George V, his truly
regal Queen, and their fresh-
faced, laughing children, mer-
riest of all being the Prince of
Wales. I saw him nine years
later in Sydney, sadly changed.
It has always seemed to me that
the post-war British Government
took too much out of the lad by
sending him round the world as a
glorified commercial-traveller,
never, perhaps,, free from the
fear that some crazy fanatic
would fire at him.
In process of time I made
many friends and acquaintances
in Perth, among them two out-
standing young men in Jack
Simons, founder of the Young
Australia League, and Kingsley
Fairbridge, creator of the Farm
Schools bearing his name, both
fated to die before they reached
the full height of their powers.
I knew all the Premiers, notably
Rason, Frank Wilson and Scad-
dan ; all the Federal members,
chiefly Forrest, Fowler and
Gregory; and all my rival
editors, principally John Curtin.
We worked in neighboring
offices for three years. Jack as
editor of the “Worker.” But he
wrote too many articles and
made too many speeches, and
after the 1919 election, in which
he went down, he had a collapse.
He and I were members of a
Press party invited to tour the
Murray irrigation areas by the
ill-fated Jack De Garis. I re-
member Mrs. Curtin coming up
to me on the Perth railway-
station and asking me to look
after her husband on the jour-
ney, as she was afraid he would
never complete it. He never did ,
he had to be helped out of the
train at Chidlow’s Well and taken
back home.
Though I did not share his
opinions, I admired his utter
devotion to the Labor party,
whose hpads in Melbourne,
Frank Anstey in particular
(Curtin was that “character’s”
disciple), had been very good to
him when he needed their help;
and his fair-minded attitude to
opponents. We were friends
always. When a private member
he often came to see me in
The Bulletin office, and he con-
tinued the practice even when
Prime Minister in charge of a
war-effort which took heavy toll
of him. His portrait in the Par-
liament House at Canberra is one
of the few paintings there that do
justice to the subjects as I knew
them. That of Forrest does not,
and I am in a position to judge.
I was a fairly frequent visitor to
the great old man’s Perth house,
The Bungalow, after the 1910
Federal election.
At that election Nat Harper,
a distant connection by marriage,
came out for the Senate as one
of the Forrest team, and I wrote
a speech for him, though when
he came to deliver the thing I
couldn’t recognise it. Nat was a
mine-manager, and a very cap-
able one —the White Feather
Main Reef was one of his shows
—and with what he saved from
his salary, with Cousin Jack
thrift, he invested shrewdly on
the Stock Exchange, then in pubs
and finally in farm properties,
calling himself “farmer” when he
stood for the Senate. He finished
at the bottom of the poll, but
presently landed a State seat, as
in process *of time did Mac-
Callum Smith, and he never
ceased to claim, in stumbling
sentences, that he had thought-
up the goldfields water scheme
before Forrest and O’Connor,
Those privileged to listen to
both worthies had friendly argu-
ments as to which was the worse
speaker, Nat or Jim ; but their
oratorical deficiencies didn’t
prevent their making stacks of
money. Harper died leaving
£380,000. MacCallum Smith cut
up for £200,000 ; and, though he
was the last of his family and
had neither wife nor child, not a
stiver went to any of the news-
papermen who had helped him
to amass most of it.
Old Sir John took kindly
to me. I found him easy
to get on with; a tolerant,
smiling host, in every way
different from the ogre of
J. W- Kirwan’s mean fancy, and
generous to a fault in apprecia-
tion of articles supporting his
party. He even offered me a
nomination for Dampier, a safe
Federal seat, made so by the
redistribution that preceded the
1913 election; but I had to de-
cline it, having no money and
being no speaker, and it went to
a very grateful Harry Gregory,
for many years Minister of
Mines.
The war to which W.A. made
such a noble contribution —an
enlistment of 32,230 volunteers,
9.9 per cent, of the total popula-
tion, with corresponding sacri-
fices, and votes of 94,069 for and
40,844 against and 84,116 for and
46,522 against at the conscrip-
tion referendums —severed an
intimacy of which I remain
proud by keeping Forrest fully
occupied on the other side of the
continent, and it was not given
to him to see the end of it. He
died aboard a ship bearing
soldiers from the State he loved
to the battlefields: truly a grand
old Australian and a construc-
tive statesman of nearly the
highest order. We have no
Forrest now.
Years later I heard W. M.
Hughes tell the story of how he
came to have Forrest made our
first native-born peer. Forrest
and W. A. Watt had disagreed,
and as neither would give way
Billy decided that one or other
would have to leave his Cabinet.
But he couldn’t afford to offend
either, so, after sounding Down-
ing-street and finding Forrest
willing, he had the peerage
gazetted, expecting that Forrest
would retire straightway. He
was staggered when he learned
that the veteran had no intention
of doing so. “Imagine how I
felt,” Billy said to us, chuckling
impishly at the recollection.
“What a gift to Labor it would
be if I, the Labor rat, as they
said, had to carry on with a lord
•alongside me!”
+ +
In the end Forrest was per-
suaded that Australia needed
stronger representation in Lon-
don, and that it was his duty to
take his seat in the Lords. Thus
it was that he set out on the
voyage that, for him, ended off
the African coast.
Memories of other people met
in Perth crowd upon me as I
look back. Memories of “Dry-
blower” Murphy, wittiest of
talkers and merriest of jinglers,
who was my always-engaging
associate during my \1 years on
the “Sunday Times.” Of Victor
Courtney, one of my successors,
who came into the office as a
cub reporter, his face beaming
with intelligence, in 1911. Of
Ernie Sergeant and my other
compositor pals who never
grumbled at my execrable
“copy,” Of Frank Thorn and
Billy McKell, the featherweights,
McKell full of anecdotes of
boxing-tent days, an uncle of the
McKell we were to know as
Premier and Governor-General.
Of Fowler, who made me his
confidant as to what was going
on in the party-room. Of Jack
Scaddan, the Premier, with his
kookaburra-laugh, and Phil Col-
lier, his abler lieutenant. Of
Harry Brown, suavest of mayors,
and W. F. Lathlain, not at all
suave but forthright and very
capable in business, civic and
Parliamentary affairs, eminently
worthy of the knighthood that
was to be his reward.
It ..was from Lathlain’s hands
that I received a watch, “pre-
sented to J. E. Webb by the
citizens of Perth on the eve of
his departure from Western Aus-
tralia in recognition of his
services as a journalist.” For
S, H. Prior had invited me
to join The Bulletin staff, and
an old dream was coming true.
(To be continued) s


No. 3 0} a Series
Men who make....
Copi&Mj
-tkbdi&bbmo
Mr. A. Schulte, an expert blender, has been
handling Capstan’s finest quality matured Virginia
leaf for 16 of his 49 years’ service. Blending, of
course, plays a major part in maintaining the
delightful flavour and fragrance of your Capstan
Tobacco. There are over 40 kinds of fine Virginia
leaf required and used in Capstan’s own blend.
Further advertisements in this series will briefly
describe other interesting phases in the manu-
facture of Capstan Tobacco—watch for them,
M Blended Better 99
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
X982D.8 53
Missing Friend
WOULD CYRIL ALEXANDER McLEOD,
formerly of Red Cliffs, in the State of
Victoria, Horticulturist, or any person
knowing his present whereabouts, please
communicate with CROTHERS DUCK
& GALLAGHER, Solicitors, Box 315, Mil-
dura, in the State of Victoria, to his
advantage.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the, time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
ë
Circular Chart* for ail typ«
of Recording Iruirgmont*
lor Mf (Um o* HicW»*ry
or Equip**"*
METER CHARTS • iptcUHf
jacWWo t s¥luvan%u
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
SPORTING NOTIONS
Despite his brilliant win in
the Tramway Handicap at Rand-
wick over other A.'J.C. Epsom
Handicap contenders, Bronze
Peak hasn’t firmed to much ex-
tent for the rich mile next
month. This hasn’t surprised
many who saw him defeat favor-
ite Connaught and second-fa vox -
ite Karendi, because it is known
that he has a leg weakness.
Bronze Peak, a -six-year-old,
belongs to an age-group that has
had a fair amount of success in
the Epsom though, generally
speaking, younger gallopers have
the wood on horses six years or
older. Last six-year-old to win
the Epsom was Denali in 1949.
Freckles, Blackadder, Green-
stead and Wolaroi were others of
the age to land the Randwick
mile —a pretty smart quartet.
In winning Tattersall’s Chelms-
ford Stakes in easy fashion
Prince Cortauld ran the nine fur-
longs in 1.49|. Had fie been
ridden out, or forced to win the
hard way, he would have beaten
Delta’s record time for the dis-
tance (1.49 i), made in the same
race two years ago. The hand-
some four-year-old son of Sun
King (imp.) and Capricious had
weak opposition, but his was a
stylish performance. Lindbergh
made a sharp form-improvement
for second money, and was
responsible for the fast pace.
Advocate was a moderate third,
but will be better off in handicap
company. McCarten, trainer of
Prince Cortauld, placed the
horse right in taking him from
the Tramway, in which he had
9.4, or 41b. above weight-for-age.
McCarten also withdrew Telyar
from the Chelmsford to race
against the modest company in
the three-and-four-year-old event
which Telyar won with ease.
Both Telyar and Prince Cortauld
are owned by New Zealander
M. J. Moodabe, for whom Mc-
Carten has had much success.
Nirobi, an A.J.C. Metropoli-
tan lightweight (he has 7.1, or
lib. above the limit), has had
stable support for the long race,
and on his win in Tattersall’s
Welter he could be one of the
chances, especially of those with
light poundage to carry. Nirobi
has won two other races —a
Warwick Farm Maiden and a
Randwick Corinthian —but it is
a big step from these three wins
to possible Metrop. success.
However, it should be noted that
Nirobi’s sire. Chateau Roussel
(imp.), won races in England up
to 13 furlongs (the Metrop. dis-
tance), and is a son of an Eng-
lish Derby winner, Bois Roussel,
while his dam’s family includes
the world’s greatest stakes-
winner, Citation. Valiant Joan,
dam of Nirobi, is by Valiant
Chief.
Randwick trainer T. J. Smith
landed a double -at Tattersall’s
meeting with Top Ruler and
Krakatoa. A powerfully built
four-year-old by Channel Swell
(imp.), Krakatoa is owned in
Singapore by Run Me Shaw. His
winning efforts have all been on
firm ground, and if it’s fine and
warm on Epsom Day, with solid
going, he will be in the line-up
for the big race, but he looks
more the welter type, and will
find it difficult to win against the
best open company at one mile.
Wins by half a dozen lengths
are unusual at Randwick, and
three-year-old Beibeiys, in win-
ning by that margin in Tatter-
sail’s First Novice .Mile,
enhanced an earlier impression
that he’s likely to develop into a
top-class sprinter. Beibeiys had
won in similar fashion at
Warwick Farm late in June, and
though in two subsequent out-
ings he raced like a moderate,
missing places at Canterbury and
at Warwick Farm, he was the
only one in it from the start on
Saturday, leading all the way.
Evidently the Nilo (imp.) gelding
was field-shy in those two bad
runs.
Top Ruler, surprise winner of
the Second Novice at Randwick,
was bought at the 1953 New
Zealand yearling sales by trainer
T, J. Smith for E. A. Haley,
whose wins have included the
1938 Epsom with King’s Head.
Haley has also bred numerous
gallopers. Top Ruler is a three-
year-old gelding by Ruthless
(imp.) from All Serene by Fox-
bridge (imp.), and is closely
related to Amethystine (Irish
Oaks), Richer (1952 Cambridge-
shire) and Quarryman (King
Emperor’s Cup, India).
The Rosehill Guineas, to be
run this coming Saturday, hasn’t
proved too sound a guide to the
A.J.C. Derby, few three-year-
olds having landed both races, a
few to have done so being Tea
Rose (1944), Moorland (1943)
and Phar Lap (1929). Runners-
up in the Derby who had won
the Guineas a couple of weeks
earlier include Conductor, Hall
Stand, High Caste, Aeolus, Ajax
and Silver King.
Best time for the Rosehill
Guineas since the distance was
increased to 10 furlongs in 1948
is Idlewild’s 2.3}. It had been
run at nine furlongs from 1915
till 1948 and at seven furlongs in
earlier years. High Caste ran
his nine in 1.50| in 1939.
Victorian-owned grey Silver
Hawk, at 100 to 1, beat the odds-
on Prince Morvi in last year’s
Rosehill Guineas, with Callide
River third. It would be a record
for a grey three-year-old to win
the Guineas in successive years,
but El Carretero looks a real
chance in next Saturday’s race.
His chief dangers would be
Telyar (the most popular candi-
date for the Derby), Prince Del-
ville, and Pride of Egypt. If all
four go to the post the Guineas
should provide a fine race. El
Carretero is selected to beat
Telyar and Prince Delville.
The A.J.C. Derby mightn’t be
as easy as first thought for the
Sydney colts, as Melbourne' is
expected to send two or three of
its best three-year-olds to com-
pete in the rich classic. Acra-
mitis pushed his way into the
Derby picture by a brilliant win
in the weight-for-age Craiglee
Stakes (1 } mile) at Flemington ;
Victorian bookmakers have him
favorite for both the A.J.C. and
the V.R.C. Derbies. He is a
stablemate of Alcyone, who is to
run in the Rosehill Guineas, in
which he will be ridden by R.
Heather.
In the Craiglee Stakes Acra-
mitis started at 12 to 1, and beat
favorite Flying Halo narrowly,
with St. Joel third. In a blanket-
finish the Derby candidate
showed courage. Flying Halo is
proving expensive to Melbourne
racegoers.
New Zealander Gendarme re-
mains at top of the Metrop. bet-
ting with Lord Forrest—follow-
ing his good Randwick win on
Saturday second favorite.
Others in the market include
Advocate, Lancaster, Electro and
Master Proven.
Ridden by Charlie Smirke,
who is no stranger to classic
successes, English Derby winner
Never Say Die had a runaway
victory in the St. Leger, scoring
by a dozen lengths from Elope-
ment, with the French challenger,
Estremadur, third.
Tasmanian R.C., by the latest
annual report, distributed a
record £11,645 spread over nine
meetings in the past 12 months.
A steady increase in the size of
fields was maintained both in flat
and jumping events.
* * *
In the second V.F.L. semi-
final, before a bigger crowd than
“ Tennis-elbow , footballer's-knee, surfer's-foot and
athlete’s-heart—think I’ll prescribe bowls.”
last week’s; (just on 65,000),
Footscray beat Geelong (11.19-
8.14). The Cats, with a breeze
behind them, took a first-quarter
lead, ’Scray had headed. ’em by
half-time, it was level pegging
(7.10 each) at the three-quarter
spell, and ’Scray made good
enough use of the wind in the
last quarter to win, though nine
of its 13 scoring shots in the
quarter were one-pointers. The
Bulldogs consistently out-rucked
and outmarked the Cats, and so
go straight into the grand-final,
first time in their just on 30 years
of league football that they’ve
been in the “grand.”
With three of the “four”
already decided in S.A.F.L.,
Norwood and North played a
cut-throat match at Prospect
Oval to see who would secure
the final berth. The 17,300 spec-
tators saw Norwood get there
by 15 points (11.12-9.9) after a
neck-and-neck tussle. It left
Norwood to battle it out with
Port Adelaide, Wests and
Torrens for the premiership.
* » •
University, having beaten East-
wood in the Sydney Rugby
Union final (16-3), will meet St.
George in the grand-final this
coming Saturday. Last Satur-
day the Australian R.U. team in
Tonga drew 9-all with a Tongan
country side.
* * *
The Australian amateur golf
championship, played at Royal
Adelaide, was won by 24-year-
old Tasmanian Peter Toogood,
who beat his younger brother
John in the final, 5 and 4. Peter
Toogood was the leading ama-
teur in the recent British Open,
won by Australian Peter Thom-
son. The brothers are sons of
professional Alf Toogood, At
Adelaide —Peter, in particular,
playing brilliant golf right
through—they were far too good
for the rest.
* ‘ ♦ •
Rex Hartwig went the furthest
of the Australians in the U.S.
tennis championships at Forest
Hills, going down in the final to
Vic Seixas. Hoad had been
beaten in a quarter-final by the
young Americap Ham Richard-
son, who’s already been seen in
these parts; and Hartwig elimi-
nated Rosewall. Hartwig thus
enhances his claims to a Davis
Cup singles-berth; though he
certainly has no lien on a posi-
tion. Actually, there’s not much
at all between the top three or
four Aussies and the top three or
four Americans. Hoad and
Trabert stand out; but on his
day, and with all competing, any
one of the other five or six—
as was shown in these U.S.
championships—is capable of
winning a tourney.
* * *
The Bulletin has been asked
to remind those country people
who will be interested that the
G.P.S. athletic meeting will be
held at Sydney Cricket Ground
on Saturday, October 9. Every
year, it seems, people who would
otherwise attend find it impos-
sible because of last-minute
arrangements; by planning
ahead, they might find it con-
venient to combine other busi-
ness with a visit to Sydney at
that time. So the reminder may
be timely.
* * *
Samoan heavyweight Fossi
Schmidt (13.0) proved somewhat
of a sensation at Leichhardt
against a 12.4 pugilistic aspirant
‘of the mighty name of Jack
Dempsey. As black as Sam
Langford, the “Boston Tar
Baby,” Schmidt threw his fists
about with such rapture that,
missing with a right swing in
round one, he fell on all fours.
Maybe Jack heard the swish and
thought the jets, as well as the
jet-black, were after him. Any-
how, he did little towards liven-
ing the proceedings, and early in
round two hit the canvas with
such resounding finality that the
ref. spake “Enough.” A support-
ing 12-rounder saw promising
young lightweight Ned Wilson
(9-6) beat veteran Ray Coleman
(9-7|) in eight rounds, Cole-
man, who started scrapping more
than 10 years ago, looked like
having too much experience, but
Wilson took charge from the
fourth on, and Ray capitulated
at corners, claiming his right
hand had been jarred.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT KEITH SILVER late of
96 Derwent Street Glebe in the State of
New South Wales.—TAKE , NOTICE that
PATRICIA MARGARET SILVER has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 688 of 1954
on the grounds of adultery If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 30th December 1954
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. MANNING
RIDDLE & CO., Solicitors, of 14 Martin
Place, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMiq REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
BRINGS A NEW ERA TO
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
IT ENABLES
BABCOCK TO
MANUFACTURE
Welded Pressure Vessels
IN LARGER SIZES AND FOR HIGHER
PRESSURES THAN ANY OTHER PLANT
IN AUSTRALIA
Babcock’s recent extension to their 28 acre plant
site at Regents Park, N.S.W., is the new building
which houses, amongst other equipment, the
largest Stress Relieving Furnace in Australia.
This building now gives Babcock greater capacity
than any other Australian manufacturer for the
production of fusion welded Class I boiler drums
and other welded pressure vessels. Special new
equipment in operation comprises heavy presses,
heating furnaces, automatic welding machines,
400,000 volt x-ray machine and a metallurgical
laboratory. Babcock & Wilcox pioneered the
production of fusion welded pressure vessels in
1931 at their Renfrew works, Scotland, in
association with The Babcock & Wilcox Co. of
U.S.A., and the experience gained in this special
technique is nOw available in the products manu-
factured in the Regents Park Works.
Babcock fusion welded pressure vessels can he manufac-
tured, and supplied, to Lloyd’s Class 1 requirements, and
to meet other Standard Specifications, such as B.S. 1113 and
1,500, and also the AJS.M.E., A.P.1.-A.SM.E., and
i C°d es -
BABCOCK & WILCOX OF AUSTRALIA
PTY. LIMITED
Head Office and Works: Regents Park, N.S.W.
An Eyewitness Looks On
At the Petrov Commission
By M. H. ELLIS
THE Royal Commission on
Espionage in No. 1 Court,
Darlinghurst, Sydney, has
gone on and on, and on—
its prolongation in detail largely
due to the intervention of Dr.
Evatt.
During the month it has con-
tinued in Sydney it has spent
most of the time dealing with
Document “J,” that “farrago of
fact, falsity and filth” which Mr.
Petrov alleged to be written in
the Soviet Embassy in Can-
berra by Rupert Lockwood, a
Communist, in May, 1953.
Mr. Lockwood says he wrote
a document in the Soviet Em-
bassy at the time he was sup-
posed to have written Document
“I,” and that Document “J” is
a composite of what he wrote
and something he didn’t write.
But he has refused the invitation
of the commission to say which
is authentic Lockwood and
which has been put in to make
up the composite.
Dr. Evatt’s theme has been
that he knows what is in Docu-
ment “J,” and that part of it is
a concocted document —con-
cocted by O’Sullivan, Dr. Evatt’s
former press - secretary, with
Petrov, and sold to a negligent
Security Department, which paid
£5OOO for it, with other docu-
ments purporting to be letters
from Moscow. The concoction
is supposed to have been pro-
duced as the result of a con-
spiracy to brand Dr. Evatt’s pri-
vate-secretary, Mr. Alan Dal-
ziel, and his assistant-secretary,
Mr. Albert Grundeman, with
having been informers to the
Communist party. This, of
course, is denied in evidence.
The commission early made it
clear that there was nothing in
the document which reflected on
Dr. Evatt. And Mr. Gfunde-
man, one of - his two clients,
swore in the box that he did not
accuse Mr. O’Sullivan of writing
the document —in fact, that he
could not have written it, since
he did not possess some of the
information contained in it.
And it has also been made
clear that what Mr. Dalziel is
supposed to have revealed was
not of a confidential nature. But
Dr. Evatt spent three weeks
vigorously insisting that these
charges were concocted to in-
volve and damage himself and
the Labor party.
He did this with so consistent
a vigor and so regular a line
that after a time the proceedings
acquired a special and native
flavor of Evatt. If one could
imagine Dr. Evatt writing a
Greek play the sittings would
have been like a Greek play
by Doctor Evatt with the
author-actor-producer playing a
three-star role, owning all the
lines worth while and carrying
on the recitative like Medea:
“We have suffered wrongs,
worthy of great lamentation
O wicked brain-children of the
accursed conspiracy.”
Mr. E. F. Hill, secretary to
the Victorian Communist party,
appearing for Mr. Lockwood,
has been a natural for the role
of the nurse who backs up the
Doctor’s Medea.
He has sat next to Dr. Evatt.
They have frequently seemed to
be on social terms, exchanging
confidences and conversation.
When Dr. Evatt finally left the
court last week, with his juniors,
Mr. Hill looked alrpost like a
stump after a tree has been cut
off it and carted away.
But Mr. Hill did not remain
long. He announced that he
and his client had lost confidence
in the commission, in the light of
its extraordinary behavior (to
Dr. Evatt) in the morning. The
commissioners smiled benignly.
Mr. Hill walked out, followed by
his instructing solicitor.
After three weeks, during
which Dr. Evatt and Mr. Hill
had set the tone of the proceed-
ings, it seemed a different com-
mission when they had gone, and
habitual listeners felt as if they
had emerged from the vortex of
a tornado into a distressing
calm.
There were plenty of habitual
listeners, some of them in hands
—the East Sydney “Labor” en-
thusiasts, the Communist claque
ready to laugh at every sally
from the Evatt-Hill corner. The
scene became thoroughly
familiar to all of them, and with
the departure of the crusaders
against “conspiracy” they had to
adjust themselves to new
arrangements and new rela-
tivities.
All through the past three
weeks the commissioners, aloof,
judicial, sedulously impartial
on the Bench in the east, have
said so little for an hour at a
time that they sometimes seemed
to acquire the look of carved
Buddhas to those remote from
them. Dr. Evatt appeared
generally so unconscious of
them and so little ready to recog-
nise them as part of the scene
that he spent most of his time
on his feet with his side-face to
them, turning ever and anon to
the audience in the approved
Parliamentary manner —nobody
in the Australian Parliament
ever addresses the Speaker if he
can help it; speeches are made
to microphones and galleries.
Sometimes the commissioners
seemed to feel bound to call his
attention to themselves as the
presiding Muses, and Mr. Jus-
tice Owen, with his customary
eye-twinkle, would say gently:
“Please, Dr. Evatt, address us
—we cannot hear you.” And
then % Dr. Evatt would slowly
pull round towards them as if he
were tearing himself out of the
grip of an almost irresistible
force. And after that the
hearing would sink back into
its routifie of a steady patter of
questions, the same questions
that had been asked a dozen
times, producing the same
answers.
The contrasting methods of
the advocates have made a
curious study.
Mr. Windeyer, who assists the
commission, is the complete anti-
thesis of Dr. Evatt in manner
and method. He has a well-
trained voice with a resonant
quality, and when he has some-
thing important to say or to ask
he delivers himself in slow-
moving and separated phrases, as
if he were throwing stones at a
tin in a well and waiting for
each to ring on the target before
he throws the next one—a very
effective method, but providing
very low-grade ore for reporters.
He is scrupulously impersonal,
in a way which suggests a dis-
interested diner who finds a
Martian next to him at table,
and, not knowing what subjects
it is embarrassing for a Martian
to discuss, thinks it is courte-
ously safe to ask him whether
they have tadpoles in the canals.
He does not produce the
laughter and approval of those
who found the slightest sally
of Dr. Evatt uproariously
funny. But his questions are
clear, his explanations are eco-
nomical in verbiage, concise and
precise. He rarely elaborates,
and he rarely shows warmth
even under strong provocation,
so that when he at last allowed
himself the luxury of remarking
that “Dr. Evatt had not re-
deemed the vagueness, irra-
tionality and incoherency of his
allegations by the vehemence
with which they were made,” it
sounded as if a hand-grenade
had gone off.
It is easy to believe the story
told of him that when he took
the Twentieth Brigade to the
Red Beach landing at Lae he
spent the evening of the fateful
voyage reading Macaulay. He
is one of those counsel who use
words to do necessary work, fol-
lowing the recipe of Sir William
Slim for becoming an officer and
a gentleman: “Stand up, speak
up, shut up.”
He has never learned —and
probably does not want to learn
—the Evatt technique of seeing
that in every oral operation there
is some sentence, some phrase
which will secure the attention
of the press and provide a head-
line.
His and Dr. %Evatt’s plan in
examining witnesses is the
logical product of their set
habits and techniques. Mr.
Windeyer asks his question
slowly and with great delibera-
tion and gives the witness plenty
of time to answer. His queries
have the minimum content of
information. If he wished to
inquire whether the witness had
a drink in Sydney on January 20,
he would say:
Did you have a drink in Sydney
on January 20?
But one feels that Dr. Evatt
would probably approach it like
this:
Willie —I hope their Honors won’t
mind if I call you Willie— Sydney,
now—you’ve heard of it —I live there,
though that doesn’t matter—and oi
course you know there was plenty ot
bottled beer there on January 30
poor Queensland stuff.. • •
At this stage it is probable
that the Bench would twinkle at
the Doctor with an air of gentle
resignation and say “Dr. Evatt,
please ask .a question.”
Whereupon the Doctor would
look half-round to the gallery,
indignation painted all over his
visage, and thunder indignantly
“But I am asking, your Honor,
I am asking him. Isn’t that so,
Willie?” (Before Willie has a
hope of gathering his wits) “Of
course it is.”
It seems a blundering method,
but it has its uses.
It is, despite the interludes
which provide headlines, very
(i Continued on page 30)
SAILOR AND LADY
“Listen,” said the sailor to the lady beneath the street-lamp,
“I’ve been thinking of you; ( '
Every day and night since we sailed from this town!
The lady said, “It’s true
That every nice girl loves a sailor
But we don’t believe a word
Of any such foolishness. Yours is the fiftieth
Spiel like this I’ve heard.”
“See,” said the sailor, “if you don’t believe me
Here is what I bring.”
On the salty palm of his sinewy hand
Winked a wedding ring.
The lady said, “That’s all very fine,
But I’ll bet in every port
You’ve a girl imprisoned in a golden hoop,
For you look the marrying sort.”
“I can tell,” said the sailor, "you’ve been misled
By wicked old men of the sea. /
He looked very sadly at the lady, crying
“I’m young —be kind to me.
“Now,” said the lady, what a fool am I,
But your words win my belief.
It goes straight to my woman’s heart
To beg* such steadfast grief.”
When his ship returned to that quiet harbor
He did not climb her stair.
Heavily the lady wandered the dockside
Seeking him everywhere. -
He was talking to a yellow-haired lass beneath a street-lamp.
Bitterly she turned her head.
“I don’t believe a word,” came the girl s clear voice
And “See!” the sailor said.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


THE BEST CAR
i
r
ROILS
IN THE WORLD
RECOMMENDS
A COMPLETE RANGE
OF AUTOMOTIVE
OILS AND GREASES
. equally suitable for new
and run-in engines
ROYCE
IM
mw—~ uno
li am
>ll SO
'"'"WTZZ*
in
motor
OIL
EBSwas
ROYtP
*95%
0
0
6
6
MARKETED BY
OBTAINABLE AT
AN
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE
STATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd)
Cl 97/7807
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SEATO PROBLEMS
Expressing the objections of
those Colombo Powers —India,
Burma, Ceylon and Indonesia —
which have refused to come in
on a South-East Asia Treaty
Organisation, the Madras
“Hindu” comments:
“The Colombo Powers (ex-
cept Pakistan) do not agree with
the Americans in thinking that
the Indo-China war was a case
of simple Communist aggression.
It was in essence a colonial war.
“While Mr. Dulles assumes
that the Communist Powers
have obvious designs on Burma,
the Colombo Powers have taken
note of the declaration made by
Mr. Chou En-lai in Rangoon
that China would respect the
territorial integrity of Burma.
The Colombo Powers believe
that China should be admitted
to the United Nations and that
agreements respecting Asian
countries should be entered into
on a basis of mutuality. The
independent countries of Asia
are acutely conscious of the his-
tory of European colonialism.”
The comments following
represent the differing view of
countries*' acutely conscious of
Communist expansion:
“New York Times”: “It is
obvious that any sort of plan for
the defence of South Asia would
be immeasurably stronger if it
enjoyed the accession of the
major population-bloc in that
area. The so-called Colombo
Powers—lndia, Pakistan, Cey-
lon, Burma and Indonesia—
comprise this largest population-
bloc. Pakistan and Indonesia
are the largest Moslem States in
the world. India has about one-
seventh of the world’s popula-
tion. Burma is one of the
richest countries in Asia, high
in literacy, capable of enormous
development, Ceylon is a vigor-
ous young democracy.
“With the exception of Paki-
stan these countries have indi-
cated that they view the idea of
any sort of defensive alliance in
Asia with misgiving and alarm.
India and Indonesia have made
it plain that they prefer to rely
upon bilateral agreements with
the Chinese Communists, pre-
sumably non-aggression pacts,
rather than to align themselves
with any coalition that is openly
anti-Communist. Burma and
Ceylon are in a period of
‘watchful waiting’ and equally
unwilling at this time to come
openly into any organisation
that would be construed as part
of a Western and anti-Com-
munist ‘bloc.’
“We believe, most earnestly,
that countries such as India and
Indonesia are not sufficiently
aware of the danger that faces
them. We fear that their leaders
have been so absorbed in the
ideas of complete sovereignty,
independence and neutrality
that they have underestimated
the threat to those desirable ad-
juncts of the State. They know
that the liberty of others is in-
volved, but cannot believe that
their own, recently established,
can be a target.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman” ;
“However strongly it may be
felt that creeping Communism
must be checked, few persons
could contemplate with equa-
nimity the prospect of atomic
weapons being used and a third
war precipitated in order to save
an Asian country like Siam, say,
f£°m falling into Communist
clutches. Nor would Asians
welcome proffered protection
against Communism'if it brought
the risk of untold numbers of
their peoples being wiped out
by atomic weapons,”
* * *
“Manchester Guar di an”:
“The problem is to devise de-
terrents to China of a kind which
will not be unacceptable to the
free countries of South Asia, or
at least which will not result in
tilting opinion in these coun-
tries against the West. Our
danger may lie in realising too
late that Communism, sobered
by the hydrogen-bomb, has
shifted its main effort in Asia
from military assault to politi-
cal. We may still be putting up
military defences when the ones
most needed are political; and
our political barriers will be of
little avail unless they are
manned by Indians and other
Asian leaders as well as by
Westerners.”
* * *
London “Economist” : “The
case [for Seatp] has been
strengthened by the Western
Poors’ lamentable show of
division and indecision over
InllolChina. There nothing was
all right on the night, even
though there had been months
to rehearse. If a similar situa-
tion is not one day to develop,
say, in Siam, there must be pre-
cise advance planning.
“The next problem is how to
define aggression. No Com-
munist army has ever crossed
the frontiers of Malaya or
Burma, or even of Indo-China,
New York “Herald Tribune”
“WOTCHA THINK WERE GOING TO DO WITH IT?"
and it is unlikely that open
aggression would now be con-
ducted against a country like
Siam, which has already put it-
self virtually under American
protection. The favorite Com-
munist weapon is internal sub-
version, and nowhere has this
been more skilfully used than in
South-East Asia. But how is it
to be countered without the
Seato Powers themselves being
made to look guilty of aggres-
sion. if they interfere? And how
could a Communist seizure of
power be dealt with in a vital
non-member State —in Indo-
nesia, for instance?
“Third, it is already certain
Hhat the steps to be taken within
Seato both to back any military
guarantee and to stimulate
political and economic resistance
to Communist interference can-
not be anything like as definite
or detailed as they are in Nato.
The forces simply do not exist
to provide a network of inter-
national and inter-service com-
mands like those that exist in
Europe. And a burden-sharing
exercise would be nothing but
a mockery. At the same time,
it will be essential to have some
kind of permanent body respon-
sible for intelligence and plan-
ning and capable of rapid
expansion if Seat© is to have any
real substance to it.
“Last, there is the general
problem of wrapping up all
these points in a treaty which
would make a real contribution
to the divergent needs of the
area as a whole. It must be a
tight military agreement without
alienating the neutralist Colombo
Powers; the door must not be
slammed against their eventual
association with the treaty.
It must be a constructive
political and economic docu-
ment which will help Govern-
ments in their fight against
local Communists. And it
must commit the non-Asian
Governments to specific action,
without alienating public sup-
port in countries with moods as
diverse as those in Britain and
America, Australia and Pakistan.
“The need remains what it
has always been. The Korean
war might have been avoided if
the aggressor had known for
certain that he would be met by
force. This is, perhaps, the last
opportunity to prepare such a
warning for South-East Asia
with the support of the United
States.”
Hair-trigger World
With what “New York Times ’
commentator Hanson W.
Baldwin describes as “little hot
wars” spitting and fizzing all
over the place—he lists Malaya,
the Philippines, Burma, Indo-
nesia, India, Kenya, Israel and
French North Africa as examples
—the international scene could
hardly be termed peaceful. It
looks even less so when one
considers a “U.S. • News and
World Report” setting-out of
Uncle Sam’s shooting-orders to .
his troops scattered around the
world;
“Today, in a world trying to
practise co-existence,' Americans
in danger areas are under orders
to shoot if threatened. The direc-
tive, paraphrased, is this: ‘You
do not have to wait until your
head is shot off before shooting
back.’ 6
“Sudden war could flare, in-
volving U.S. forces without an
further orders from Washington
in any of half a dozen spots
today’s world.
“In Korea, for example,
sudden Communist attack any
where along a 140-mile ‘true
line’ automatically will touch
off a shooting-war involving a
least six U.S, combat division
committed there. These Ameri
can forces now are under stand-
ing orders to shoot back, resis
any attack, jump into a sbootin
affray if assaulted. No action by
Congress or the White House i
needed for the United States to
become involved in sudden, full-
fledged Korean war again, on
with most previous restrictions
removed.
“In West Germany it’s th
same story, A Communist attack
somewhere along the 300-mil
border and the U.S. instantly
will be at war, with th
equivalent of six American
divisions in the front-lines
Orders are to shoot back withou
asking questions or waiting fo
instructions.
“In Berlin, other U.S. force
are committed to keep supply
lines open to what is, in effect, an
isolated outpost deep within
Communist territory. A Com
munist crackdown on that U.S
garrison or on those supply
lines, and Americans are
authorised to use force, if neces
sary. Quick shooting-war coulc
be the outcome.
“In Austria, about 10,000
American troops are standing
guard, face to -face with sizeable
Russian forces and under order
to shoot back if any trouble
starts.
“Around Formosa, where
several small islands already
have changed hands a number o
times, a Communist attack on
the main island will mean sudden
war for the United States Seventh
Fleet, committed to defend tha
island. If the Communist attack
persists, U.S. air-power is almos
certain to be thrown in as well
Such an attack is currently
being threatened by Communist
China.
“Around Northern Japan
shooting-war also could be
touched-off quickly by ‘incidents'
in the air. Russian combat
planes, based on the Kurile
Islands only a few miles from
U.S. bases in Northern Japan,
already have shot down at least
two American planes in that
area. U.S, pilots now are under
orders to shoot back if attacked.
“A Communist attack in any
of these areas of the world, and
shooting-war can come almost
instantly and automatically.
American forces already are
committed there, under standing
orders to shoot back, and ready
to fight in the air, at sea or on
land if an attack comes,
“Nor is that all. The new
attempt at ‘co-existence’ also
will end in sudden war involving
U.S. forces if Communists fire
away at any other country that
America is committed to defend.
“As of now, the United States
is signed-up to defend 10 nations
of Western Europe, to consider
an attack on any of them an
attack on the U.S. That means
‘instant retaliation’ by U.S.
bombers, plus a firm commit-
ment to use' U.S. combat forces
to fight back, if any one of these
countries is attacked. An O.K.
by Congress for sudden war in
this event already is given, in the
North Atlantic Treaty Organisa-
tion Agreement of 1949.
“A firm agreement to go to
war if attack is launched on
Greece or Turkey also has been
made by the U.S., approved in
advance by Congress in 1950.
• “In addition, Canada and all
20 countries of Latin America
have the name of the U.S. on
the dotted-line to ‘assist in meet-
ing the attack’ if it should come
there. The Philippines, Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and Japan


What About Senator
McCarthy's Methods?
“I approve of Senator McCarthy’s
objectives, but I strongly disapprove
of his methods, which are similar to
those of the Communists.” This
type of statement is now being used
to help smear American anti-Com-
munist leader, Senator J. McCarthy.
But those in doubt about McCarthy’s
methods should read the current
issue of the League of Rights’
monthly INTELLIGENCE SURVEY,
which contains actual extracts from
the official records of Senator Mc-
Carthy’s interrogation of a typical
witness strongly suspected of being
a Communist. A comparison is made
between McCarthy’s methods and
those used by the Communists
during the examination of American
prisoners of war in Korea.
THE INTELLIGENCE SURVEY
also provides other factual reports
and comment essential for all
Christian patriots.
Single issues of THE INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY, 4/-, post free.
Annual subscription, £2/2/-, post
frs®* Order from—
The Victorian League of Rights
( Non-party, non-sectarian)
5438 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 YEARS' EXPERIENCE
in reudy-to-erect buildings
behind every Bowas
wood-and-steel structure
irnunnomw!
innorni
muwnnmrc
mmnwnEWm
ranwnnra
BOWAS the ideal construction for
SHEARERS’ ACCOMMODATION
Bowas buildings are properly designed buildings, easy
to erect and strong and rigid when erected —thanks to the
patented steel-wood-steel sandwich members, outcome of
Mr. George Williams’ long experience with the famous
Sidney Williams’ Steel-Fraim structures.
With Bowas, you get a sound, properly engineered
structure, stronger than tiftiber and approaching the
strength of brick. Members are accurately cut to size and
the lightest steel employed is never less than I in. thick.
For your money’s worth, choose Bowas—send for
descriptive leaflet.
BOWAS FEATURES
-fa Patented “wood and steel”
building units.
Easily erected easily
dismantled.
if Strong, rigid, durable—free
from dry rot, white ants, etc.
■jlr Exterior and interior wall
coverings nailed on as in timber-
frame construction.
-fa Designs conform to Rural
Workers’ Accommodation Act—
also designs for Homesteads and
Country Cottages.
BOWAS CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
Williams Parade (Off Constitution Rd.), Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. LM5204, LM7886.
In Qld.: 108 Colchester St., South Brisbane. J 4833 .
also have firm U.S, commit-
ments in writing that will bring
American forces into war agamsl
Communists it any of these
alt has defence-
assistance agreements with Spain,
IwedeS Yugoslavia, Ethiopia,
Iran Israel Liberia, Saudi
Arabia the ’ Union of South
Africa ’lndia Pakistan, Thailand
and Nationalist China; and
rmitiinl-suffliritv aereements with
Irak, Jordan, Lebanon, Nepal,
Afghanistan West Germany,
West Austria and Trieste.
“w v c cr. to
War is not
’TXcefcTme?witffi7the Com-
21 Places comes witnm me c
ZplnHmntv and military
American money military
aid poured into < resards
as important to its
Sity'agaffislTuss”' u|-
troops in fact, are stationed in
many ’of these countries. U.S.
forces, as a result, are very likely
ta be involved if war is touched-
off in this vast area.
“A' sudden ‘incident’ created
by a cocky satellite force could
thus touch-off an immediate war
—limited or unlimited-any-
where in the huge 60-nation area
that the U.S. now has under-
taken to defend. That area
covers roughly 50 per cent of
the world’s land-area, contains
60 per cent, of the world’s
population.”
Trade With China?
At a banquet given in
honor of Attlee and co. during
their visit to Red China, the
Chinese Premier, Chou * En-lai,
remarked that “the Chinese
people and Government are
willing to adopt every step to
further friendly co-operation and
to expand and develop trade be-
tween China and Britain.”
Among others interested in
that remark was H. G. W- Wood-
head, who founded and edited
The China Year Book and' who
now edits the U.S. “Foreign
Trader.” In a letter to “New
York Times” he wrote:
“Up to the latter part of 1949,
when the Reds completed their
conquest of China, Britain did
a very substantial trade with
China and, moreover, had exten-
sive banking, commercial, indus-
trial and real-estate interests in
all the so-called ‘Treaty Ports.’
The Attlee Cabinet extended
formal recognition to the Com-
munist regime in January, 1950,
in the hope of conserving and
developing these interests.
“The Reds proceeded to show
their desire for ‘friendly co-
operation’ and the expansion and
development of trade by policies
aimed at destroying all British
vested interests in the country,
forcing them into bankruptcy or
liquidation and holding their
British personnel to ransom for
extortionate payments for taxa-
tion, termination pay, etc. In a
Note, dated May, 1952, the
British Government was con-
strained to request permission
for liquidation of all of its
nationals’ enterprises, and the
issue of exit-permits for their
non-Chinese staffs.
“Since that date few British
, , . . , Uoan
undertakings have been per-
milled to complete he tortuous
enforced
byßeds and
banks, commercial and industrial
(including public utility) enter-
prises continue to be • held as
hostages for further extortion
“I understand that when the
extensive undertakings of the
oldest British firm m China,
Jardme, Matheson and Co., Ltd.,
were taken over (without com-
pensation, of course), that firm
was compelled to retain and meet
the salaries of its general office
employees, who generally were
the senior and highest-paid
mem bers of its staff ; and that it
has cost the firm approximately
Kong smm (U.S.
$60,000) to pay off about 30 of
these employees (or over U.S.
*2OOO apiece). Some 200 more
rel ™. lll l° he paid off.
. Similar blackmail and extor-
<><» have been applied to
American and other foreign
firms, a number of whose execu-
byes are still being detained in
Chma because their principals
cannot or will not remit further
large sums to secure their exit
visas *...
I s a diat Messrs. Attlee
and company were not in a posi-
P on t 0 ma k e comparisons with,
sa Y> the Shanghai of normal
times—when it ranked among the
® rst seven or c*Sht ports in the
world in shipping tonnage—and
the Shanghai of today, when
seldom does a single oceangoing
steamer (with the possible excep-
tion of an occasional satellite
vessel) enter the harbor
“The American public gets
occasional fragmentary reports
0 f the maltreatment of the staffs
- 0 i; lts mtsstonary organmtions,
which have now been virtually
uprooted by systematic persecu-
tion. It has never had a clear
and comprehensive picture of the
destruction of American banking,
commercial and public-utility
enterprises by the Reds.
“The [U.S.] State Department
could hardly do a better service
to civilisation than by compiling
and miblishine a White Pane?
ana puoiismng a wnne raper
TZL°n
ImerpSfvider the
regime.”
After E.D.C.
For a year or more the U.S.
has talked of an “agonising
reappraisal” of its policy in
Europe if France refused to
ratify the agreement for a Euro-
pean Defence Community.
France having done just that,
“there will,” as London “Econo-
mist” has put it, “have to be
some hard thinking in Washing-
ton, London and Bonn about
what is to be done next in
Europe”:
“For Prance has beep regarded
hitherto as indispensable to any
Western defence-system, whether
it be called Atlantic or Euro-
pean. It is the rear area of a
great allied force; across it run
the communications to the ports
which tap the strength of the
United States and Britain; it
contains an amount of sheer real-
estate, of permanent military
construction, that makes French-
men , shrug their shoulders at
American talk about peripheral
strategy.
“In other words, any alterna-
tive plan for knitting Germany
into a Western defence-system
is exposed to a French veto. It
need not, like the E.D.C. Treaty,
require positive ratification by
the [French] Assembly; but the
Assembly, if it disapproves,
could exert its authority by
bringing down the Prime
Minister.
“It is important, therefore, to
assess exactly in what respect
France and its partners differ,
what it is that a majority of
French deputies want and fear.
First, it is clear that the
Assembly is not prepared in
spirit for a rapid surrender of
sovereignty to a European body.
It was the insistence of Dr.
Adenauer, M. Spaak and others
that the supra-national arrange-
n,pnt. 0 f the ED C should not
meats tTJ.L
b® “dayed that fe
be P ital the
Fr(;nch J (d tQ be intolera ble,
"From this follows the second
point. Because Frenchmen will
not trust in a set of insntutmns
to protect them against German
energy, efficiency and ambition,
they demand the help and pro-
tection of friends on the spot
What has been already off
m guarantees and
forces is not enough , the Y w n
more protection for a longer
period. Failing this, many depu-
ties, supported by 100 Com-
munist votes in the Chamber,
would like a European under-
standing with the Soviet Union,
if necessary at the expense of
Germany.
“xhe main features are clear
enough to warn the Western
Allies that alternatives to E.D.C.
must be imaginative, generous
and capable of growth It will
not be enough to have the E-D-C.
without the C, a military
alliance that pretends to be
som ethmg like General Eisen-
Power’s allied command in
1944 ; or to make Germany a
member of Nato under special
cond itions that are not accepted
by other members. And it will
no t do to set up some structure
t hat will face collapse if some
me thod is one day found for the
p!eace f u i reunification of Ger-
man y. xhe West must win Ger-
man y and Germany must want
to s j- a y w ith the West: that is
the suprem e object of Allied
po ii cy i n Europe.
“The conclusion is unmistak-
it i s that Britain and if
C, United States and
d t come even closer
» «mbryo ot
I," 6 ,™, 8 ,, their mtienceand
he r loyahy their patience and
their protection, ir rney naa
already succeeded in calming all
doubt the E.D.C. would have
come into existence a year ago•;
now to get the next-best thmgto
E.D.C. they againt. The
crisis of the last few months be-
Furone the United States
SSS'Sof
confidence ; the trust built.up by
Mr. Bevin, Mr. Acheson, M.
Schuman and Dr. Adenauer has
been deeply shaken. The first
necessity is to restore it.
“Then there is another task,
no less difficult. The freshness
and dignity of the European idea
have been spoiled. The oppor-
tunity for rousing a new loyalty
in Germany has slipped past.
Young people in Europe have
watched old people haggling
over anddeal, and they have got
older and sourer as they waited.
If Western integration and the
organisation of security are not
to become the object of sheer
Realpolitik, a new political idea
will have to be found, an objec-
tive that appeals to generous
minds.
“Where is the impulse to come
from? Europe, without perhaps
realising the fact, has come to
expect ideas as well as dollars
from the United States. But
there is no sign of intellectual
ferment in the circles around Mr,
Dulles. Is the idea then to come
from France or from Ger-
many? Almost certainly not.
And the obstacles in London to
fresh thinking are formidable.
“Yet events may force it out.
If Germany is in some way to
become a partner on terms
acceptable to France, then
Britain must appear to stand
more solidly and visibly on the
Continent, as a participant and
not merely as an external
guarantor. If Britan showed it-
self ready to act as a European
Power, it might excite in the
United States a new interest in
making the Atlantic Community
a reality and Nato something
more than a grand coalition.
“The moment is crucial be-
cause ,it coincides with a deter-
mined and skilful attempt by the
Soviet Union and China to split
the Western partners. That
attempt looks benevolent, and it
may well have a peaceful inten-
tion ; why use force, or even the
threat of force, if diplomacy will
do the trick? But the ultimate
intention to isolate the United
States from its partners and to
exploit the rivalries within the
free world is malevolent.
“The fear that once drove
those partners together into such
great ventures as the Marshall
Plan and Nato has diminished,
and none will regret the fact.
But its place has to be filled by
the kind of statesmanship that
looks beyond imminent elections
and Parliamentary reputations to
the future world of atomic
energy, guided-missiles, an in-
dustrialised Asia and a restless
Africa In what shape is free
Europe, from which Britain
cannot escape, to confront that
world?”
Various Voices
Mr. Attlee, in Moscow: “The
word ‘freedom’ doesn’t seem to
mean the same thing to you,
unfortunately, that it does to the
West. Here it means freedom
from having to make a choice;
in the West it means freedom to
make a choice.”
President Eisenhower: “There
is a dangerous disproportion be-
tween our country’s [America’s]
efforts to tell the truth about
freedom and our nation’s objec-
tive on the one hand, and the
propaganda of the Red dictator-
ship on the other. For every
spokesman of freedom that we
assign to the struggle for men’s
minds and hearts, the Com-
munists assign scores; for every
dollar we spend for informa-
tional purposes, they spend fifty
in opposition; for every word
we utter in the cause of liberty
and faith, they utter thousands
to extol their system and to
degrade and defame the values
of the free.”
The same: “The safety of
any single nation in the free
World depends directly upon the
substantial unity of all nations
in the free world. No nation
outside the Iron Curtain can
afford to be indifferent to the
fate of any other nation devoted
to freedom.”
R. G. Lund {of the Interna-
tional Wool Secretariat):
“Experience of the last three
years has shown that, in terms of
quality, wool has nothing to fear
from even the best of synthetics.
Wool is the greatest miracle fibre
of* them all.”


VITREOUS
QwhAj
(HAWS
uu
MPRESSED
INSULATION
Coo^^
uvuiiUuul
m
O'*
Continuous
Burning
Constant
Biot Water for
Kitchen * Bathroom * Laundry
CaJimichaeL "4W
The extra large roasting oven of the
Carmichael ”400” is vitreous ena-
melled inside and out, thereby ensuring
faster cooking and longer life. Com-
pressed insulation takes up less space
allowing far more cooking area with
larger ovens, larger hotplate.
No matter when you decide to cook,
the Carmichael ”400” is always ready
for use and supplies enough hot water
for all household needs. The sparkling
titanium enamel finish ensures easy
cleaning . . . adds beauty to any
kitchen.
Naturally it cooks perfectly . . . it’s a Carmichael
;
%
Ciutmichael
S2o'
w! ma S' n iflcent stove al
of oo„ y k°" » “mplete 'range
stantly the e^® eratur es *«-
decide to l„„ k mo '” ent ™,
w?S e Vw. A VS*I«
enamelled cooking fully
The a °t S i UPe t r 8126 hot P ? S-
-rangeln? Sf Within the
t°in fU^S U Vl“ ln=
meaning- cooler k?t^h erature ’
amazing
Carmichael “520” j*.
the ultimate in solid
cooking. solid fuel
Write today for
free Illustrated literature to:
W. T. Carmichael Ltd.', Rawson Street,
Auburn: W, T. Carmichael, Brisbane,
or Buzacott (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.. Sydney.
Jas. Balfour Pty. Ltd., Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth,
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSO* 4
o'suuJttUr
PTEDD
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXVI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“protecta” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
wearing on listeners, especially
when the distinguished cross-
examiner normally adopts to-
wards “hostile” witnesses the
manner of an indignant M.P.
who has just hauled Guy Fawkes
out of the cellar and is going to
have the truth out of him at any
price.
Few present during the last
dreary days of Evattian cross-
examination did not mutter some
version or parody of the suppli-
cation to Queen Caroline:
O curious Bert, we thee
implore
To go away and ask no
more,
And if that effort be too
great
To go away at any rate.
But the court itself could not
afford to have feelings ; it was
there to get at the truth, and
must bear with it all, which it
seemed to do with great forti-
tude and high sense of duty.
Between the two Bar tables,
but apart, sat Mr, Meagher and
his client Mr. O’Sullivan, slightly
to the rear of the front-line of
combat. Mr, Meagher has been
described by one undiscerning
scribe as resembling an English
cavalry colonel, but he is actually
much more like one of the more
genial members of the Faculty
in Trinity College, Dublin. He
speaks English as only a polished
Irishman can speak it, but not
as a polished Russian can under-
stand it, as Mrs. Petrov could
well testify. There is an early-
morning blitheness about him.
Even in his sterner moments,
when he was a&juring Dr. Evatt
to live up to his principles in
regard to the uses of the criminal
law, he rose as if he were about
to ask permission' to sing Mo
craoibhin cno . . . “My heart is
far from Liffey’s tide and Dublin
town.”
All day the questioning went
on. It was for a solid three
weeks mostly Dr. Evatt’s ques-
tioning. The elephant’s child
was a mere amateur in curiosity
beside him. It seemed to most
observers the last week that,if he
were allowed to continue on the
lines that he was following the
whole inquiry would become
bogged-down in a mass of mean-
ingless words and that it and
everybody concerned with it
would probably mummify and
the Government be compelled to
proclaim No. 1 Sessions Court
at Darlinghurst as an Australian
Pompeii, and put it under the
custody of the National Trust.
The Doctor asked so many
questions and of such a nature
that there were almost none left
even for his neighbor, Mr. Hill,
to ask, save a few which seemed
likely to break down the
endurance of Mrs. Petrov by
harrowing her feelings, a line of
attack which the judges very soon
dealt with in a little outburst
of unaccustomed sternness and
determination in which it was
made plain that they “would not
have this woman put on the
rack.”
The end of the Evatt episode
was inevitable. That it did not
come sooner was due to the
natural patience and moderation
of the commissioners, who are
the very model of what a Court
of Inquiry, should be: dis-
interested, fair, and scrupulously,
careful to give due latitude to
counsel and see not only that
justice is done, but that it should
be clearly' apparent that it is
done.
The witnesses, of course, are
people about whom little can be
said. For the curious crowds
Mrs. Petrov being asked by
Messrs. Evatt and Hill the same
questions again and again, and,
as Mr. Justice Ligertwood com-
mented, giving the same answers
—was the star. She provided
them with everything that a
human mob out for sensation
likes to see in a witness-box —
good looks, style, charm,
laughter, tears.
She is not very much like her
photographs. They do not bring
out her character. She is a trim
little lady with a bright intelligent
face, not typically Russian. She
has grace, a look of race and
inbred good-manners and natural
poise. If you met her anywhere
around the fringes of the Baltic
or the Balkans, or even in
Edinburgh, you would accept her
as one of the more pleasant
features of the local scenery.
She has, in fact, a look about
her that the Scots call “sonsie,”
as if she might have somewhere
in the background of her ancestry
a little of the blood of the
Camerons, Ramsays or Mc-
Kenzies who went to Russia with
Peter the Great . . . Mr. Chifley,
incidentally, would have enjoyed
ihe spectacle of her jousting witb
Dr. Evatt, to whom he used to
refer privately as “Ivan the
Terrible.'”
In the witness-box, however,
Mrs. Petrov takes on the char-
acter of what an American
general in Tokyo described as a
“high-class female V.1.P.” of
modern Russian vintage, one of
the first human crop grown by
Bolshevism, young enough to
have known no other type of
life and to have no other ethics
or mode of thought than those
dictated by Communism. She
is self-possessed. She is obviously
eager to see that she understands
the questions.
She had some difficulty in
understanding the democratic
idiom of Dr. Evatt and Mr. Hill,
and insisted that nearly every-
thing they asked her be trans-
lated into Russian.
Sometimes she gave an answer
a little twist of humor, and
whenever there was a reference
to her lost life as a Russian, to
her ruined career or to those rela-
tives who are in the power of the
Soviet Union and who have been
blotted completely out of her
world, she showed a tendency to
break down. Once she put her
head on her hands and wept for
a moment silently—“they have
spoilt it all for me.” Mostly she
seems very much like Australians
in viewpoint, but occasionally
she provides a little interlude
which indicates the existence of a
gap between her world and that
of the West.
She is asked, for instance,
what she would have done if she
had thought that her husband
seriously contemplated remain-
ing in Australia. She replies
that she would have used her
test endeavors to get him into
the Embassy. She is asked what
she would have done then. She
says simply that she would have
told the Ambassador about his
intentions, and would have done
her best to see that her husband
was prevented from carrying out
his plans. A rustle goes round
the court, and she looks round a
little bewildered.
What is there abnormal about
her statement?
Wouldn’t her action be per-
fectly proper, rational and in
accordance with the ethics of a
Soviet citizen who has been
brought up to believe in the State
and its system as a religion and
that husbands and personal
affairs are secondary to the
public interest?
She already has had one
husband and a brother purged
and has only been saved herself,
apparently, through having good
friends.
As she left the witness-box,
exhausted but still collected, the
drama moved into a new phase.
In the next week the avid audi-
ence was to be treated to a
glimpse at the methods of
“Security”—the Secret Service.
There is no longer laughter from
the Communist claque.
THE THIRD
My blood is fire, my thought is snow,
as opposite as rise and fall,
and what divides them is a third
that is not mind or animal.
It is not foliage *or stone
or any element I know;
yet, round it, all the species are,
though disparate as fire and snow.
There heart and mind, so close, can never
balance or be reconciled.
There bird and beast, as always, move
separate and cruel and mild.
Though I search or rest I cannot
define that single, complex thing.
My blood has "named it many-tongued,
my mind reduced it to a wing.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


SIMPLEX 1,000-WATT
32-VOLT, WATER-COOLED
HOME LIGHTING SET
Powered by Simplex 3-
4 h.p., four-stroke petrol
engine, water-cooled with
tank, running at 1,100
r.p.m. Heavy-duty, ball-
bearing generator driven by
vee belts. Engine has roller
main bearings, precision
governor and impulse starter
magneto. Complete with wall-
mounting instrument panel.
Exempt from Sales Tax if for home
lighting or agricultural use.
Batteries extra, 155 amp. hr. or 225 amp. hr.
capacity, quoted on request.
HARDMAN AND HALL
161 MISSEHDEH ROAD. MEWTOWM, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
ē
£175
OWNERS TELL YOU WHY YOU CAN
expect a lot from
Who better than owners to tell you about the performance of Vauxhall Velox ?
For instance, Mr. E. Marginson of Ipswich, Queensland writes: “Its performance
and economical running far exceed my highest anticipation.'''
And Mr. W. G. Arnold of Adelaide, S.A. says : “The performance of this 23 H.P.
Velox is almost unbelievable, it combines comfort, clear road vision, simple easy
steering and smooth, fast acceleration." #
You Will appreciate the extra comfort, interior refinement and handsome styling
of Velox... with its heritage of over 50 years of Vauxhall engineering excellence.
For pride of possession, outstanding value, performance and economy . .
you can “expect a lot from Velox”.
The Vauxhalt Velox Saloon
6 cyl. 23.44 h.p. O.H.V. “over-
square” engine ; 5-6 passenger
roominess ; ample luggage cap-
acity ; luxurious interior finish.
List price £9BO plus Sales Tax.
The Velox “Vagabond” Sports Tourer
The powerful Velox Coupe Utility
Smoothly powered, smartly styled,
the 5-6 seater Velox “Vagabond”
is “king” of the open road. With
ample luggage capacity and snug
all-weather equipment, it’s a pract-
ical proposition too. List price
£960 plus Sales Tax.
A hard-working 10 cwt. utility with
rugged frame ... a smart,
comfortable three-passenger coupe
... that’s the versatile Velox Coupe
Utility. List price £950 plus S/Tax.
a
Ask your Vauxhall dealer about the
G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire Purchase
Plan. Ask your dealer too, about the
built-for-Vauxhall “Air chief” Car
Radio.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S ltd.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Yauxhall dealers throughout Australia
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of verse containing the lines;
The ghost of pore Bill Shikespeare
’E couldn’t get no rest.
— 5895.
Words of verse containing the lines:
The self yew bow was England’s boast.
She hung upon her archer host.
It was her very life support
At Orecy and at Agincourt.
—5894.
Information Sought
(7) Some information on William
the Silent 7 (2) Was he related to the
British Royal Family? (5) Why was
he called the Silent 7
(1) Born at the castle of Dillenburg
in Nassau on Apl. 25, 1533, he became
Prince of Orange in 1544 on the death
of a cousin, succeeding to his estates
in Holland and Flanders before he
was 21. The Holy Roman Emperor
Charles V appointed him stadtholder
of Holland and Zeeland, and com-
mander-in-chief of the armies there.
After Charles’s abdication he con-
tinued to serve the new emperor,
Philip II ; but the Netherlanders in-
creasingly resented Philip’s harsh rule,
and in 1567 William resigned all his
posts and went to Germany. He just
evaded being caught and executed in
the repressive campaign of the Duke
of Alva; his property was confiscated
and he himself outlawed (1568).
Thereafter he led the national rising
of the Netherlands; both northern and
southern provinces by 1576 acknow-
ledged him as ruler. It was his uncon-
querable spirit which animated the
desperate resistance that was offered
to the Spanish arms, and it was
largely due to his personal and un-
remitting exertions that Leyden was
relieved (Oct. 3, 1574) just, as the
town had been reduced to its last
extremity. In 1579 he established the
union of the seven northern provinces;
the southern provinces preferred to
give their allegiance to the French
Throne. William was shot dead by
a Burgundian, Balthazar Gerard, an
agent of Philip, as he was leaving his
dining-hall (July 9, 1584). (2) No.
(3) It was during a sojourn at the
French Court (1559-60) that William
by his discreetness was named le
Tadturne (the Silent). Actually the
appellation was in no way expressive
of his character; he was fond of
conversation, eloquent of speech and
a master of persuasion.
♦ * * *
Some details concerning a painter
named Paul Bril 7
Paul Bril, a Flemish painter, was
born in Antwerp in 1554 and died in
1626. The success of his elder brother
Matthew (1550-1584) in the Vatican
induced him to go to Rome to live.
On the death of Matthew, Paul, who
far surpassed him as an artist, suc-
ceeded to his pensions and employ-
ments. He painted landscapes with a
depth of chiaroscuro, then little prac-
tised in Italy, and introduced into
them figures well drawn and finely
colored. One of his best compositions
is the “Martyrdotn of St. Clement”
in the Sala Clementina of the Vatican,
» ♦ * •
Was there an Australian case of a
‘‘man they could not hang ” 7
According to Henhiker Heaton’s
not-always-reliable Dictionary of
Dates, Joseph Samuels, sentenced to
death for theft in Sydney, was strung
up on September 20, 1803. The rope
snapped, and Samuels fell prostrate.
At a second attempt the rope unrove
at the fastening; at the third it
snapped once more. So Provost-
Marshal Smith interviewed Governor
King, who reprieved Samuels.
* * * •
(7) Were the British battleships Lion
and Temeraire laid down and then
abandoned? If so, why? (2) Some
information on the battleship Malaya 7
(I) Yes. Four battleships of over
40,000 tons, to have been named Lion,
Temeraire, Conqueror and Thunderer,
were authorised in the 1938 and 1939
Estimates, but their construction was
abandoned in 1940. The reason lay in
the needs of the Royal Navy, and the
direction of the war: the lesser need
for big ships, with increased concen-
tration on smaller ships for the anti-
submarine campaign. (2) Malaya was
the fourth ship of the Queen Elizabeth
class. It was laid down at Armstrong’s
yards an October, 1913, and completed
February, 1916. Her displacement
was 31,000 tons, complement 1124-
1184, length 600 ft.; main armament
eight 15in., 12 6in., bight 4in.
numerous 40 mm. and 20 mm. AA.
Malaya is now accommodation-ship
attached to Vernon torpedo-school,
Portsmouth.
* * ♦ *
On what occasions has Dr. Evatt
appeared in court on behalf of
Communists ?
In the High Court action challeng-
ing the validity of the»Communist
Party Dissolution Act, heard Nov. ,14
to Dec. 20, 1950, Dr. Evatt appeared
on behalf of the Communist-led
Waterside Workers’ Federation and
the then Communist-led Ironworkers’
Union. (The High Court, one judge
dissenting, declared the Act invalid
on Man 9, 1951.) In February, 1951,
Dr. Evatt appeared before the Arbitra-
tion Court on behalf of three leaders
of the Miners’ Federation (two of
them Communists), the charge being
that they had committed a breach of
an undertaking in contempt" of the
Arbitration Court, an action arising
out of the 1949 coal-strike. (The
charge was dismissed.)
♦ ♦ * • ♦
Designs of the flags of each of the
States and Papua ?
The flag of each State has the
Union Jack in the top-left corner.
The rest of each flag is made up* as
follows: N.S.W., on the fly a white
circle with a red cross on which four
stars appear with a lion in centre;
Victoria, on the fly a blue circle on
which is the Southern Cross in white
surmounted by a crown; Queensland,
on the fly a white circle with a blue
Maltese cross with a crown in the
centre; W.A., oh the fly a yellow
circle with a black swan inset; S.A.,
on the fly a yellow circle with a
magpie inverted; Tasmania, on the
fly a white circle with a red lion inset;
Papua, on the fly a white circle with
the word Papua in black letters
surmounted by a crown.
*** . *
Who was Beau Nash ?
Born Richard Nash at Swansea
(Wales) on Oct. 18, 1674, he was
educated at Carmarthen and Jesus
College, Oxford. He was given an
ensign’s commission, but soon jgft
the Army and entered Middle Temple,
though he never took up the law as a
profession. A zest for pleasure and
gaming drew him to Bath in 1705, and
thenceforth he made his living by
gambling, and was noted for his
extravagance. He became “un-
crowned king” of Bath, and under his
authority reforms were introduced
which secured for Bath a leading
position as a fashionable resort.
Among other things, he drew up anew
code of rules for regulation of balls
and assemblies, and he brought duel-
ling into disrepute. He was admired for
his manners and taste, his sobriquet
being an allusion to his foppery; his
name became proverbial in that con-
nection. Goldsmith wrote a Life of
Nash. He died on Feb. 3, 1762. He
was a man of strong personality, and
far more able than Beau Brummell,
whose prototype he was.
Brief Answers
J.H.: The specimen is a variety of
tea-tree (Leptospermum scoparium).
The capsules should he gathered when
mature and put in a dry place till
they open, when the seed can he
shaken out. Sow thinly in an open,
sandy mixture with a light covering of
fine soil over the seed. Keep the soil
moist, while avoiding over-wetness, and
transplant when very small J.R.;
H.M.S. Queen Elizabeth —launched
1915; displacement 27,500 tons; main
armament, 8 x 15in., 16 x 6in. Auda-
cious, 1913; 23;000; 10 x 13.5 in„
16 x 4in. Royal Sovereign, 1915,
25,500; 8 x 15in., 12 x 6in. Britannia,
1906; 16,350; 4 x 12im, 4 x 9.2 in.,
10 x 6in. Formidable, 1901; 15,000;
4 x iTjn 17 x fiin Other information
4 • "V’ *7
£ ou nt s . th . e Secptaiy s Depa -
B° a ,rd of Admiralty, Whitehall, S.W.I,
England. •••J.Jr.u.: write w. -
Penfold and Cos. Ltd., 88 Pitt sl „ »
Sydney.. ..C.M.8.: A Book Is Built
by B. N. Fryer was pubhshed by l
Hawthorn Press, 15
Melbourne The price is 10s.•.
postage 6d W.V.M.. lamtarus
for Lord’s’’ by Eve Moseley apeared
“ **
•• • -E-M.M.: !t would
make an arrangement s y
suggest, containingprovisions to sate
guard your interests; but it would re-
quire very carefully drawn legal
documents, and it is very doubtful
whether any well-advised person
would let you have the right to build
on b j s land and at tbe same time give
yo u the safeguards you want J.H.:
jt is not possible to give any reliable
advice on this pro blem without seeing
the OJ j g i na i gran t from the Crown
and bav j n g complete details of what
bas bappene d. In general, local
counc ji s have power to resume land
for the purpose 0 f widening roads,
although compensation is payable for
the land so taken. See your solicitor
about the matter... .S.S.E.; The
quickest method to finalise the matter
i s to interview the District Valuer at
the depa f tm ent; this can be arranged
by making a telephone appointment.
It may be poss i b i e to settle your
d jft e rences by such an interview.
otherwise the objection will have to
be beard by t he Land and Valuation
Court. The District Valuer might be
in a position to tell you when objec-
tions from your valuation district
are to be heard... .H.W.P. : The per-
son owing Uie money should normally
the exc h an ge, since it is a debtor s
tQ seek out his creditor and pay
him wbere he is. This rule may be
var j ed by the terms of the contract,
but very rare i y i s ... .h.S. :An occu-
ier Qf land may requ i re tbe occupier
of adjoining land to assist in or to
contribute towards the repair of a
dividing-fence, and if he refuses then
Sc can be compelled to pay half the
If the P fence is Accidentally
destroyed, either occupier may imme-
Hiately re-erect it, and charge the
other with half the cost. If'the fence
. g destroyed through fire or by the
fa j b on j t D f trees the occupier
through whose neg iect the fence was
destroyed is boU nd to replace it at
, . cost
UIS ’
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
N.T.: It made the marine
editor seasick G. 8.: No E.C.:
Hardly a short story of today
M. 8.: The vehicle you use for your
poem has four flat tyres and is missing
on four cylinders... .T.R.: So you
think our short stories are corny
J.D.: Read Somerset Maugham’s
advice to young authors... .F.L.N.:
That should have been typed on
asbestos H.L.P.: “What Could
She Do?” She could have stuck her
finger in his eye... .T.S.P.: Tour
“Lament for a Vanished Afternoon
would look prettier in “A.M.”
T.D.D.: Despite the Latin words it’s
still rude.«. .G.L.C.: Your statuesque
characters got broken in the post
CD.; Piffle....G.T.: And yours,
too H.G.: That one won’t pay the
rent... .T.P.: N 0... .F.D.: “Deidre
burned with anger; she gave him a
long scorching look.” We put it in
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
the refrigerator J.C.: “Never?”
Never H.G.: Cut it and hot up
the climax M.L.: Make see
L.D.: Too much sea S.F.: More
bodies left over at the finish than in
a grand opera... .S.V.W.: Plagiar-
ism is a contemptible thing K.W.:
We haven’t read everything, but we
have read that before.... H.R.: Can’t
be sucked in by your jet story
D.W.; Truly a fisherman’s yam.,..
P.F.; Come again.


m
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Plough attached.
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series 11, Mark XII, U h.p. Tilliers
Engine. Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 2
Hoeing blades, lOin. Tool-bar, 3 universal standards,
and power take-off.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS' BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit
for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe
Paspalum
•guillotined t
Rotary' Hoe
Sawbench
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney. BW 4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St., Melbourne.' MU 8551
QTand: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631!
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND Ltd., 115 York St., Launceston
Launceston 2645; and 167 Murray St., Hobart. B 2264.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castiereagrh Street, Sydney.
Lawnmowef
Cutter Bar
Other attachments include: —
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR for in flat inf
tyres, Spray-painting, etc. FURROWEt
TRAILER, DUSTER, DISC HAKKOWb,
GENERATOR for hole-boring, lighting, etc.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest btatt
Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS
BOY" and ACCESSORIES.
Name
Address
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
NEW ENGLAND SOLDIER-SETTLERS
VTOTORING west from our
nearest town, along the
Gwydir Highway, one gets a
fair picture of land-settlement in
central New England (N.S.W.).
Winding down the western
slopes, the road goes through a
series of fertile valleys divided
by high but grassy hills. Great
stations held long strips of the
valleys once ; the old homesteads
can be recognised from a distance
by encirclements of English
trees.
The first wide valley is dotted
with homesteads, most of them
shabby, some abandoned, with a
few new houses in sight. The
valley was divided into small,
arable farms, and after years of
varying fortune the owners are
selling to men taking up areas
large enough for livestock farm-
ing, The next valley has a more
prosperous appearance. Sub-
divided under the Closer Settle-
ment Act just before War 11,
the farms were a reasonable size.
Beyond the next range is the
soldier-settler country. The road
runs through these blocks for
about 30 miles. Each block is a
“living-area” for a man running
sheep and cattle, and each has
some land which could be sown
to fodder-crop or pasture.
The first indication the
motorist has that he is in new
territory is the post-office. A
new post-office, brave with paint,
it leaps to the eye. Bigger than
most, it’s in marked contrast to
many—mere lean-tos in some
districts.
The station-homestead is there,
too, and the English trees, but the
gardens and the outbuildings
look cared-for. A good Toad
branches off the highway to
follow the settlements down the
valley. Houses of modern design,
paint, substantial sheds, fences
up, or going up, everywhere;
wells going down, dams being
sunk. Life and activity. Prac-
tically all the black-soil areas
are under fodder-crops or
pasture, some of the sloping pad-
docks have been contoured, in
places a start has been made to
sow the higher, lighter country.
Five years ago the motorist
would have seen only the station-
homestead and a decaying
cottage which contained the
post-office.
Soldier-settlers have had low
rentals, liberal finance and good
wool-prices. All powerful aids
to establishment and consolida-
tion. But they’ve had difficulties,
too. Many, coming from well-
equipped farms developed over
decades, were a bit bewildered
at first. A man finding himself
boss and manager of 1000 acres
or so of land innocent of build-
ings, the boundaries incomplete,
the access-road, perhaps, no more
than a row of surveyor’s pegs,
might hardly know where to
start. But start he must; and,
on top of the work necessary
to get his block into shape, there
was community work, necessary
for provision of common
amenities, taking time and
energy. .Materials for building
and fencing were hard to get,
securing labor, for a time, was
almost impossible.
Original farmers and station-
owners were more than helpful,
lending tools, machinery, facili-
ties, even manpower. Builders,
carriers and other contractors—
some, no doubt, with an eye to
the future, but many from pure
good-nature—gave settlers pref-
erence oyer better-paid work
closer to town. Settlers soon
learnt to co-operate, sharing
machinery, woolsheds, yards, and
combining for big jobs such as
dipping and lamb-marking. In
wet weather those on the outer
blocks had a “town-day,” It
was then the duty of certain
owners of tractors to* drag the
trucks of the others through the
black mud on to the hard road ;
and to be there again in the
evening to repeat the per-
formance.
Settlers on each estate formed
associations and began to pester
their shire council and the
P.M.G. for roads, bridges and
telephones. Most of the officials
concerned were anxious to help;
many of them were Old Diggers
with a special sympathy for their
persecutors. But getting the
pioneering work done was the
difficulty, from the shire and
departmental point of view. To
solve this, the first of the
working-bees was organised.
Settlers assembled with tractors
and power-saws and cleared a
path for the trunk-telephone.
These bees have built post-
offices, moved schools and are
now making communal tennis-
courts.
In the early years returns from
sheep were low because settlers
found it difficult to feed them
adequately. Most of them
bought ageing sheep from
“softer” country further west,
mainly because lines of young,
locabbred sheep were not avail-
able. The older sheep did well
when grass was green, but in
winter, when native-grasses are
dormant and have little feed-
value, they lost condition. There
were some heavy losses. At first
the Lands Department insisted
that stock bought with depart-
mental money had to be breeders,
thus adding to the feeding diffi-
culties. These troubles disap-
peared with subdivision, fodder-
crops and stock bred on the
blocks.
In terms of human content-
ment and happiness soldier-
settlement has been a success.
In a few years men have made
the change from wage-earners
and share-farmers to independent
graziers ; a change which, in other
circumstances, would have taken
half a lifetime of exhausting
effort. They have the oppor-
tunity to create a farm bent to
the shape of their dreams, and to
provide amply for their families.
Their wives can really appreciate
their modern homes after a year
or more in a hut. The original
residents of the district have
benefited, too, from the new
roads, schools and the brisker
social life that follows an incom-
ing of young married couples.
So far, settlement hasn’t caused
BELOW : Fleece with scattered
burr . Don’t dig right into it to
remove odd patches of burr.
Take only the fribs and sweat-
locks.
a spectacular rise in production ;
as it has, for instance, where
great areas of arable land have
been cut-up. Some fine maize
was grown on the virgin black
soil, but settlers soon found it
was more profitable to use this
land for pasture hnd fodder-
crops to carry their stock through
winter. A few keen farmers are
growing peas for processing on
land they are preparing for
pasture, in the hope of making
extra money for ambitious
improvements.
Stock population won’t rise
much until large areas are down
to permanent pasture. These are
slow and expensive to establish,
and before they can be sown a
lot of preliminary work—such
as clearing, eradicating rabbits,
fencing—has to be done. Years
were spent laying the founda-
tions, so to speak: houses, yards,
netting boundaries. Each estate
had one or two men who de-
cided to retire on the strength of
their sudden elevation to the
status of graziers. Their suc-
cessors have to cope with
neglected land. Other men are
having a hard struggle with green
timber on what had been back
paddocks of a mismanaged
station.
On the credit side, many men
with sound experience have
acquired farms where hundreds
of acres can be ploughed with
very little clearing. These settlers
are giving a lead to the district,
and have begun to compete with
old-established graziers in Farm
and Fodder competitions.
W. W. S.
ABOVE : Skirting “everything
that hangs over the table” can be
expensive.
Silage
“Sundowner”: Principles that
govern making a fire apply to
making silage. Sufficient heat
should be generated in the early
stages, and the heat should be
controlled later.
It all depends on the admis-
sion and exclusion of air. Select
a clear, well-drained site and the
right materials. Keep the bottom
layer open by avoiding over-
consolidation until it com-
mences to heat. This is most
important when wet or slightly
immature material is put in the
pit. Later consolidation by rol-
ling or tramping may be neces-
sary to prevent too great a rise
in temperature and consequent
charring.
In these circumstances there
is little likelihood of having to
open it up to let in more air.
However, self-sealing is not an
automatic process in the same
way as it is in a fire. It is
achieved by rolling the top layer
of green material on successive
days until it is reduced to a layer
of wet pulp which entirely shuts
out the air.
A shield on the windward
side to prevent too much air
from entering will also be an
advantage.
Heavy Skirting
Examples of “the heavy hand”
during skirting can be seen in
many clips on the show-floor,
according to the classing and
pooling firm Bridgland Brown
Pty., Ltd.
Observations made by the firm
reveal a spate of brokens and
pieces which, in many cases,
should reach the floor as part
of the fleece-wools, and conse-
quently command a higher price.
In some cases bellies are also
being skirted. Such skirting
doesn’t help the belly and spoils
the line of pieces into which the
skirtings have to be relegated.
It’s an unusual belly that doesn’t
contain heavy burr-fault, and
there’s no disguising such
wools.
These faults are becoming so
common, and are so costly to
the grower, that this firm has
requested its consignors not to
do any skirting, with the im-
portant exception of wet stains,
which can be extremely damag-
ing if bundled up with fleece.
Bridgland Brown offer these
suggestions ;
When considering which por-
tion is to be skirted, and how
deeply, the overall burr- and
vegetable-content of the whole
fleece should be taken into con-
sideration and the extent of the
sweat-locks, fribs and discolora-
tion of the edges.
Don’t dig right into the fleece
to remove patches of burr when
the whole fleece is lightly scat-
tered with vegetable-fault.
Burr does not necessarily
damage the fleece, and fleeces
can be classed to their true value
by the repacker or pooling-
houses.
Only the fleece that is free, or
near-free, but has clumpy burr
on the skirtings should have it
removed.
In some parts of the Com-
monwealth it is possible
(although not usual) to lightly
skirt-off the fribs only, and,
without further picking, place
them direct into a pack, brand
them “pieces” and consign them.
Another point to watch is the
handling of fleeces of a quality
and style better than the top
line. Don’t make the top line
irregular or lose the value of the
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
ĕ
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.B.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage or
sewerage no matter where your home, may be. __ T _ _
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
*
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
—" DISTRIBUTORS ■
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane. ’
VIO.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
WJL: R. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
’Phenovi** Brand of Phenothiazlne.
THANKS FOR WAITING
Mr. GRAZIER!
S§M
9 <7
n>
mss
I
Increased Production has caught op
with the great demand
Place your order now for immediate
delivery of
me new, nut nuriae
LIQUID ‘PHENOVIS’
The Most Efficient Drench for
Worms in Sheep.
Another proven product of
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
ICI
■PHE.2SX.S2Oi
better fleeces by including them
Keep them apart, and forward
them for inclusion with similar
wools to be sold under a pooled
brand, where they will realise
their true value.
When consigning dusty wools
it is advisable to press them only
lightly to eliminate forcing the
dust down the complete length
of the staple. The same pro-
cedure should be followed with
clips consigned for preparation
in the selling centre, in this case
to eliminate the fleeces breaking-
up when being removed from
the pack for classing.
N.T. Development
“In the ACT”: That some-
what cautious man Territories
Minister Paul Hasluck said in
the House at Canberra that
some cattle-stations of moderate
size in the North carried a capi-
tal expenditure spread over a
number of years of £120,000,
including water, fencing, home-
steads, yards and dips, apart
from the cost of the herd.
“Broadly speaking,” he added,
“there are not a great number
of young settlers who have that
kind of capital at their disposal.”
This point evoked no dispute.
The carving-out of a new
property in the Northern Terri-
tory today requires more than
knowledge, physical stamina and
a pioneering spirit, although
these are essentials.' However,
the new plan for a Government
guarantee of lessees’ loans
should do something to encour-
age a spread of settlement.
It proposes that a leaseholder
will be able to obtain credit up
to 100 per cent, of his security,
exclusive of his herd, subject to
the provision (to deter over-
capitalisation) that his total debt
at any one time will not exceed
£30,000.
The plan should induce a con-
siderable increase in the total of
credit available in the Territory,
probably to a far greater extent
than the amount actually guaran-
teed by the Government. It
should also mean substantial
improvements to leases, with
consequent greater output.
There is a cattle-population
of about a million, which, it is
believed, can be increased by 50
per cent. There are 407 pastoral
leases totalling Z 15,355 square
miles, and the annual turn-off is
about 115,000 head. There is
also wide scope for development
of agriculture, including large-
scale rice-growmg, expansion of
peanut-cultivation and the estab-
lishment of tobacco-growing and
of some mixed-farming. As
Haslnck said, “the role of gov-
ernment, in the liberal view, is
to help the people to get on with
the job.”
,
W A rJ+n.c
W.A. CltfUS
« w >. W A citrus-growers
SjP® • citrus-growers
increasing international competi-
increasing international competi
tion, particularly m Singapore,
their export market is likely to
p
be reduced ; and local factories
have announced that # their price
for this season will be £l2 a ton
for lemons, grapefruit and
oranges. Last year factory prices
were: lemons and grapefruit,
£l6 ; oranges, £18 —generally at
the orchard gates. At £l2 a ton
the fruit won’t be worth picking ;
and as the factories normally
take 55 to 60 per cent, of the
lemon-crop, and a fair propor-
tion of the others, most growers
can expect to show a loss, or, at
best, a greatly reduced profit.
In its annual report the
Central Citrus Council of the
W.A. Fruitgrowers’ Association
isn’t reassuring:
Present circumstances and
expectations don’t warranty or
justify increased planting of citrus
and in particular of navels,
lemons and grapefruit. Every
extra acre planted and brought
to maturity before prospects of
appropriate absorption of present
production show a very definite
improvement must prejudice the
existing citrus orchards.
The local demand for citrus
has never been half-satisfied,
chiefly because the retail-prices
put the fruit beyond the average
household budget; and if
growers are getting less than
their costs there s something
seriously wrong with the distn-
bution system. It's most unlikely
that the reduction in factory
prices will result in cheaper pro-
cessed-fruits to the public and
no doubt factories can produce
a reason for this: increased
costs, etc. Lower retail-price of
the fruit seems unlikely, too.
Greengrocers seem to have
established a legend of high mar-
. c f profit to compensate for
wastage that used to occur be-
fore t g e warj but which is almost
negligible now. Still, the legend
b . persist>
w . the c o i ut ion for the
Whatever me solution ror uxc
growers’ poor returns, if it isn’t
found soon W.A. will find itself
without a citrus-fruit industry.
Crosscuts
“Normal expectation of yield
[of wheat] is now much higher
than past long-term averages as
a result of technological
advances, and of the geographical
changes in the distribution of
acreages. But we would be fool-
ing ourselves if we believed it
was as high as the 17.3 bushels
that has been the experience of
the last five seasons. Only an
optimist would rate the normal
yield-expectation above 15
bushels, even under the present
contracted acreage, or would
expect better than 12 bushels
with the drought conditions
which we can expect, on the
average, in at least two years of
every decade” (T. W. Strong,
director. Bureau of Agricultural
Economics).
If a moderate drought cut
yields to 12 bushels, Australia (in
Strong’s opinion) would be hard
put to keep up exports and
supply local demand. The stock-
feed portion of the latter would
be up, naturally, in time of
drought. With a record popula-
tion of sheep it would be higher
than ever. Dangers are seen by
Strong in a contracting acreage:
an imbalance from two points of
view, agricultural and economic.
The national economy is so tied
to wool (over 60 per cent, of the
value of exports) that any big
drop in wool-prices would be
dangerous in a period of less-
than - normal wheat - supplies.
And without grain-reserves a
drought could mean less wool.
“A further factor, which
should not be discounted by the
recent improvement in the
sterling-area holdings of gold and
dollars, is the contribution Aus-
tralian wheat can make towards
permanently bridging the
dollar-gap. There are a number
of temporary elements in the
recent increase in sterling-area
reserves, such as, for example,
gold shipments and short-term
capital movements.”
At Toowoomba (Q.) J. H.
Anderson, retiring president of
the Queensland Graingrowers’
Association, said he hoped
members would act on the advice
of Sir John Teasdale to change
over, wherever possible, from
wheat to meat and wool.
About 3i million acres were
sown to wheat for all purposes
in N.S.W. this year,
• • *,
Minister for Commerce and
Agriculture McEwen, in reply
to a question in the House about
grasshoppers, said joint Com-
monwealth-State action had
been discussed by Australian
Agricultural Council; a trial
control would be undertaken
“when an appropriate oppor-
tunity occurred, which would
not be until after the present
outbreak had completely sub-
sided”; from the results of this
trial “a plan on a broader basis
was to be arranged”:
The Australian Agricultural
Council agreed, I think in antici-
pation of approval by the Govern-
ments concerned, that the Com-
monwealth and the mainland
States should share the costs.
’Hopper eggs held by N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture
(taken from infested areas in
July) have already hatched in
the laboratories. Weather will
influence hatching of ’hoppers in
the field, but if they’re not out
yet, they are well on the way,
# « *
“A.C.T.”: Nuffield Founda-
tion is giving £3OOO over the next
three years for research at Mel-
bourne University Botany School
on influence of light-intensity,
light-duration, humidity, tem-
perature and the like on structure
and flowering. Similar work
has done big things for bulbs in
Holland, cotton in U.S., pine-
apples in Hawaii.
• * •
“H.”: Milking without stoop-
ing, by way of elevated stalls,
has been the practice in the
U.S.A. for many years. Ameri-
can dairyfarmers have now insti-
tuted another backsaving gadget
in their “milk-parlors.” This is
an endless-chain with .slats. Its
function —removal of the drop-
pings and depositing them in a
manure-spreader.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
The Main Cycle show* very little rain til! late in the
month, about the 24th, when the rains from the Mam Cycle
show good relief. But the constant intrusions of the Uranian
Cycle (which was strongly revived by the great March
sunspot) continue and may not only increase this group but
may make the October falls more frequent. An addition
about November 14 could completely alter the aspect of
the season as shown on the Main Cycle, but this intrusion
may not be continued and is being watched very closely.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Northern Airfields
Mr. Calwell’s criticism of the Govern-,
ment for not maintaining North Queens-
land airfields in good order is timely.
Throughout North Queensland and
parts of the N.T. there are many good
strips. With a little maintenance, in-
spection, etc., they could be used by most
types of aircraft flying today. But,
although they all appear on Department
of Civil Aviation maps as . emergency
grounds, they are as the R.A.A.F- or the
Americans left them in the mid-1940’5.
Mr. Calwell’s view that, without main-
tenance, these airfields will revert to
jungle in a few years is exaggerated. They
will probably stay in their present service-
able state for many years, but need regu-
lar inspection. For instance, there are
no wind-socks on any of these strips, no
directions in large letters for a lost air-
man and no identifying names. The
trees at the ends of the strips are start-
ing to grow and could be a danger dur-
ing take-off and landing, N
During a recent trip to the Atherton
Tableland I drove my car along the old
Mareeba strip on the eastern fringe of
the plateau about 40 miles west of
Cairns. The visit, mainly to revive
memories of a very active strip where I
once flew and saw the American Super
Fortresses leave for the Coral Sea Battle,
proved that this drome, at least, could
be made fully serviceable in a matter of
days.
The surface of the strip, a hard bitu-
men composition, was in first-class con-
dition, and no weeds or trees had broken
through except for a little at the sides.
The taxi-strips needed a little attention
because they were not so thick. The
trees were springing up at each end and
along the sides of the strip, which is nor-
mally cleared in case a landing is not
dead-centre and the wings overlap the
side.
To clear the ends and sides of runways,
paint identifying names and keep a wind-
sock serviceable does not mean much
work or expense, and it could mean the
saving of lives in an emergency. D.C.A.
officials could well do a tour of Austra-
lia’s war-time dromes of the north and
have the best of them made serviceable.—
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Public Transport and Profit
I’m not trying to defend the inept
administration of Sydney’s public trans-
port, but it does rile me to read the con-
tinual sniping, from all sides, at the
failure of State-controlled transport ser-
vices to pay their way.
The State’s running of public trans-
“He'll soon be good enough to bet on.”
port is not of necessity part of a Socialist,
plot. Most public transport in Aus-
tralia—main exceptions being shipping-
and, latterly, air-services— never been
in private hands: not because the State
snatched it away, but because private
enterprise couldn’t see a profit in it and
wouldn’t have anything to do with it.
The same goes for some other essential
public services. Long before there was a
doctrinated Socialist philosophy, long be-
fore there was a Labor party here, the
Governments of Australia had to con-
struct roads and railways, to provide tele-
graph services; build wharves and light-
houses, dredge harbors, become respons-
ible for water-supplies. This was at a
time when the Governments were mainly
representative of landowning and com-
mercial interests! Private capital, how-
ever, wasn’t interested.
Must public transport and other such
conveniences make a profit? Is not the
providing of a service to the public the
first consideration? (Admittedly, often
Sydney’s public transport doesn't give a
service at all.) Education, for instance,
never returns a direct profit; but it pays
a dividend to the nation by fitting men
and women to be useful citizens.
A lot can be, done, of course, to provide
more efficient public transport—l’m not
doubting that. A curb oir union lawless-
ness, lazy and incompetent employees,
the institution of stronger Ministerial con-
trol—all would help. But, even with all
these things, I doubt whether trams and
trains would ever show much of a profit.
—Kaymara (N.S.W.).
Cheaper Wine
Charles Meeking’s criticism of wine
prices (B. 1 /9/’54) should be directed
at those marketing the wine—not at the
producers.
I lately spent a pleasant morning at a
vineyard right in the heart of the Kelly
district near Glenrowan. By the look
of the historic surroundings most of the
buildings and cellars must have been
erected before Ned came to the district.
But what the vineyard lacked in looks
on the outside it made up for in good-
quality wine inside —at 2s. per bottle.
It was a lovely nutty claret, five years
old, and I took away as much as my car-
boot could hold.
Two weeks later, when I dined in an
Italian restaurant in Melbourne, identi-
cal wine was served as a “house special”
at 12s. per bottle on the table. Ten
shillings on 2s. at site isn’t a bad mar-
gin!—Rothjay (Vic.).
The Piltdown Skull
Anyone who has the nerve to call the
Piltdown skull a fake (B. 18/8/’54) obvi-
ously hasn’t read the sober scientific
paper on the subject, but only garbled
newspaper reports about it. Here are the
facts:
In 1912, at Piltdown, Sussex, a broken
human skull was found in an old gravel-
deposit. It was in private hands for some
time. When it passed into the keeping, of
a museum, a lower jaw accompanied it.
As their writings show, scores of sound
scientists could never reconcile that jaw-
bone with the rest of the skull.
During the last few years, radioactive
carbon tests have given us a most accur-
ate means of dating the age of any ancient
organic remains, animal or vegetable,
When applied to most of the world’s
scientific treasures, these tests have shown
that the original estimates of their an-
Equity were not so far out.
They showed that the Piltdown skull
wasn’t as ancient as had once been
thought, but was about as old as the
revised estimate of the antiquity of the
gravel-deposit in which it was found.
But when applied to that lower jaw, about
which there had been grave doubts all
fake 8 ' *“* shown ' up aS 1 m ° dem
These fossil human remains are so
valuable, and usually so fragile, that no-
body is allowed to monkey around with
them. Hence the long delay in proving
that the jaw was a phony.— Archaen
(c a )
tommunism in Schools
At the annual conference of the
N. S. Wales Teachers’ Federation, Act-
ing Minister for Education J. F. Me-
Grath declared that some teachers were
“I had to have a lighthouse , Dad."
trying to indoctrinate children with
Communism. The charge was denied by
D. A. Taylor, who said McGrath’s state-
ment was uncalled-for, unwarranted and
had no basis in fact.
I’m not so sure. While teaching at
State high schools I knew two teachers
who were not only openly pro-Com-
mumst but were selecting children,
taking them on hikes and giving them
Communist literature. Both teachers had
been to Russia. As far as I could see
their activities were in no way checked
by those in authority.
There are definite rules that teachers
shall not attempt to influence children
in matters of religion or ideology, and
that they must treat such subjects im-
partially when they crop-up in social
studies. Teachers accept their salaries
on the condition that they teach the
syllabus as laid down by the Depart-
ment of Education. If they are unwilling
to do that they should look for another
job.— Recla (N.S.W.).
■
Car-stealing
“Dumb Dora” (B. 11/8/’54) asks,
“Don’t most book-cookers mean to get
it back next Saturday?” Perhaps that
is so, but most judges probably consider
it more likely that an abandoned car will
be found and returned to its true owner
than that the money will be returned
by the embezzler. Contrary to popular
belief, the law is not divorced from
reality.
On the other hand, the embezzlement
cases illustrate that the leniency of
judges towards those convicted of
use” is not anomalous. Where
the circumstances warrant it the courts
will give the embezzler a light penalty
simply because they realise that this is
more likely to achieve the successful
rehabilitation of the offender than a
severe penalty.
However, “Dumb Dora” really mis-
understood my argument, which was
directed at the present buck-passing on
the problem of juvenile delinquency.
The teacher blames the parent and the
parent blames the teacher. Both of them
blame literature, films, radio, the war,
psychologists, the courts or any other
influence which seems to be remotely
connected with the subject.
Possibly the courts should be more
severe. I doubt it. But whatever view is
taken it is certainly time we placed the
responsibility for the present problem
where it truly belongs—on our own
shoulders—and admitted our failure to
honor our obligations to our children,
Only thus will the solution to car-stealing
and other instances of juvenile delin-
quency be found. — MacD. (Vic.).
Colonial Trade
~ . ~ .
colonies in the 18th century-^rcen
I° T
British W o Q no 7„i. t l n
® f British practice ffi2s/ °^
P ra cbce (B. 25/8/ 54)
p as followed by every Colonial
Power of the time, and was based on the.
mercantile theory of trade. This, which
held, among other things, that the
colonial economy should be complemen-
tary to? not competitive with, that of the
mother country, became popular in the
17th century ; it was falling into dis-
favor at the time of the American War
of Independence. Adam Smith and other
economists were sharply critical of it.
Their influence, and other factors, led
to its supersession by the 19th century,
Actually, it was imposed less strictly
by Britain than by any other Colonial
Power, and it did not prevent the Ameri-
can colonies from building up an im-
portant mercantile marine. Colonial
ships did a big trade with the West Indies,
Many colonial products, such as grain,
and rum, could be exported any-
where
The advantages of the system, too,
were not all on the side of the mother
country. If the American colonies were
on i y allowed to send their tobacco to
Britain, for example, the British were
only allowed to smoke American tobacco,
Products important to a colony that
cou id be produced in the homeland were
forbidden there. Tobacco-culture was
introduced into England early in the 17th
century, and proved successful in some
southern counties. Because local pro-
duction competed with the Virginia crop,
growers were, by the mid-century, ordered
to destroy their plantations. Some who
ignored the order had their plants rooted
out * militiamen.-DENTONio (N.S.W.).
Rebel Dramatists?
According to Dame Sybil Thorndike
Australia needs a rebel if it is to produce
a great playwright—“somebody who sin-
cerely wants to rebel against the corn-
fortable present-day living, the 40-hour
week, and people’s self-satisfaction.”
~ , „
et Shakspeare was no rebel. He
wa^ . a thoroughly orthodox Englishman
of his age, who if the term had then been
in y ent ed, could have been described as
a tyffical Tory. Indeed, a late-19th-century
English critic, Charles Wibley, titled a
essay on Shakspeare Shakspeare, Patriot
ancl ior^
Ben Jonson was also “a church and
king man,” as was the greatest English
dramatist of the late-17th century, John
Dryden.
Shakspeare’s great Spanish contempor-
aries, Calderon and Lope de Vega, were
of the same outlook, as were France’s
master playwrights, Moliere and Racine,
Both of these were high in. favor with
Louis XIV.
Of Racine, W. H. Lewis says in his
book on the times of Louis XIV,
The Splendid Century: “He had that
admiration, or rather adoration, of the
King which is the mark of the 17th-cen-
tury bourgeois.”
From those celebrated examples it
hardly seems that rebelliousness’against
existing institutions and social conditions
is necessary for great achievement in
drama. — Kanimbla (N.S.W.).


Telegraphy Standards
P.M.G.' telegraphists aren’t the only '
ones whose operating-standards have '
declined (B. 18/8/’54). Listen-in on some
of the marine frequencies to the jumble
of almost unreadable Morse and you’ll
wonder how ship-to-shore traffic ever gets
across. „ .
Worse still are some of the weather
reports sent out to shipping from coastal
radio-stations at major ports. > Many
times, especially in rough weather, I’ve
mopped my sweating brow in the little,
stuffy wireless-cabin trying to pick up
the latest weather information for the
skipper, only to give up wearily and
switch to one of the broadcast-stations
which provide weather information at
the end of their news broadcasts.
It’s just as difficult trying to exchange
traffic with some of the coastal passen-
ger-ships, which are required to carry at
least two operators possessing the highest
qualifications —one with a first-class
operator’s certificate and the other with
a first- or second-class “ticket.”
There’s some excuse for operators on
smaller cargo-vessels, which are not
legally required to maintain a full listen-
ing-watch. A third-class certificate suf-
fices here, and it is usually held by one
of the crew —the mate as a rule —who
combines operating with his normal
duties.
On the other hand, it is usual to find
that these ragged operators can receive
almost perfectly under the most difficult
conditions.
One of the reasons for the poor send-
ing-standards would appear to be, as
“V.J.H.” suggests, lack of sufficient
basic training. Certainly, at the schools
I’ve attended, both military and civil,
the accent seemed to be on receiving,
with only a slight regard for supervision
of sending-practice.
But poor sending won’t get a pass in the
stiffish P.M.G. examination for opera-
tors’ certificates of proficiency, so the
problem would seem to be somewhat
deeper than suggested by VJ.H.”.
It is my view, after many years’ experi-
ence, that sheer laziness plays a large
part in the decline of ,sending-standards.
This decline apparently takes place after
the operator obtains his ticket and is
comfortably billeted in his chosen job.
With others there seems to be a desire
to be smart. There can be little other
explanation for the rattle of impatient
and barely readable Morse which follows
a request for a repeat in some cases.
These smart operators apparently forget
that weather conditions affect reception
conditions and that they could save them-
selves a lot of delay and abuse simply by
acknowledging conditions might be bad
at the receiving end and modify their
sending accordingly.
Pre-war operators in both the P.M.G.
Department and the marine service were
near-perfect exponents of telegraphy.
Operators could exchange traffic for
hours without fatigue or error and with
a minimum of delay.
But. like most other occupations since
the war, pride in the ability to do a job
well seems to be lacking, and most opera-
tors apparently just can’t be bothered
doing a good job. This, in turn, has led
to more breakdowns, forcing the operator
to resort to the automatic-key if he is to
continue to earn his living by that means,
longer delays in traffic-handling, and
general fatigue and irritability among
operators— Sparks (N.S.W.).
“Waddlin’ Willie” is right, of course,
in comparing Morse and telepririter
speeds when transmitting press-traffic (B.
11/8/’54). There is nothing more satis-
fying to a communications-man than to
see a great heap of words being whittled
down by an expert telegraphist, especially
if the stuff can be put on tape before the
channel opens and bunged away at 80 to
100 words a minute.
But press is a different proposition
from business- and domestic-traffic.
Newspaper concerns get special facilities.
The press-channels between the capitals
and large provincial towns are kept apart
from normal circuits, and run continu-
ously day and night. A good percentage
of the stuff transmitted is never used by
the receiving newspapers, but it’s all paid
for at a reduced rate which is profitable
for the department and the newspapers.
That's because these channels are in
continuous use.
That can’t be said for domestic-
channels. Where ’printers are installed in
busy offices—that is, those handling 50
to 60 messages an hour—machines will
pay. Below that they’re idle for long
periods and don’t pay. And when they
don’t pay the public foots the bill.
There’s no less handling of a ’printer
message than there is with Morse. All
figures, code-words and anything likely
“Ask nicely and I'll give you a bit”
to be confused are repeated —in fact, a
’printer message is just another telegram,
subject to exactly the same procedure as
any other message except press. Here
the picture is somewhat different.
“Waddlin’ Willie” gives the Royal
tour as an example of teleprinter effici-
ency. So it was —an admirable demon-
stration of P.M.G. organisation. But
how often does a Royal tour, or any-
thing near as big, come up? Once in a
lifetime. Four minutes from Fremantle
to Melbourne for 60 words, with all the
gates wide open for an hour more
before the message was lodged, isn’t bad.
But under the same conditions of pre-
arranged circuits and perfect carrier-lines
I could have done the same by hand, and
so could any telegraphist worth the name.
Put that message in at Fremantle post-
office, let it wait its turn with other
traffic, be received, checked by the
operator in Perth (on a Morse-channel
it’d be checked and counted as it was
running), go through the circulation pro-
cess, wait its turn again on the Melbourne
channel, repeat the checking and circu-
lation procedure, then go through the
tube, and the time would be somewhat
different.
And if a muddle were made some-
where a sticker with a query on it would
go back all the way to Fremantle and the
routine would start all over again. That s
the point: a manual operator picks a
mistake as the message is coming to him
and queries it on the spot; with ’printers
there is a necessary lag whenever some-
thing goes wrong.
Emergencies? When there s trouble
about —bushfires and floods, faulty lines
with perhaps lightning cracking along
them every few minutes—give me a
manual circuit any day. I’ve spent all
my youth and most of my adult life at
telegraphy, and I know that while some
current is in a line a hand-signal will get
through, but unless all the current is there
a teleprinter is useless. There’s nothing
quite so garbled as a mutilated ’printer
message.
So where are we? I agree, whole-
heartedly, that machine systems are
desirable on inter-State circuits where the
business handled means they operate at
a profit, for press-traffic where the same
condition applies, and for large towns
and suburbs. But until a system can be
found to reduce the crippling expense of
machines, Morse must be retained for
small offices. —V, J. H. (W.A.).
Writing for TV
The would-be short-story- or news-
paper-writer studies his medium, through
examples, and keeps writing despite
rejects. The same principle must be
applied to writing for radio and TV
(B. 25/8/’54). Listen and write, listen
and keep writing is the rule. Every pro-
ducer of radio material in Australia wel-
comes contributions, but won’t consider
the writer who obviously hasn’t studied
the medium. Some, including the A.8.C.,
will criticise.
If only 5 per cent, of A.B.C. drama-
scripts are written by Australians it’s
because only that percentage is accept-
able. Australian radio, wisely, draws
on the world for its material, and Aus-
tralians represent only a small proportion
of the writers available. They have to be
good to compete. The opportunities are
as wide now as ever; it’s up to the
writers.
The basis for radio-writing is the
ability to write; the techniques, tricks
and presentation-angles can all be learned
from the many examples presented every
week by almost every station.
In 20 years we may find the same small
percentage of TV productions written by
Australians; if writers are prepared to
help themselves the story may be
different.
Every State technical college has its
course in TV and its TV camera and
screen. Here lies the opportunity for
every interested writer. The colleges
would welcome anyone prepared to
arrange material for use before the
cameras. And their policy, of course, is
to arrange courses (even in writing for
TV) if sufficient students are interested.
Courses in production and performance
before the TV camera are already
available at Melbourne Tech. —K. A. B.
(W.A.).
Labor’s Future
Only the prejudiced will deny the great
service of the early Labor party to
manual - workers and to Australia
generally. Before the workers were
strongly organised and were without
direct representation in Parliament their
weakness was ruthlessly exploited. When
trade was dull there were wholesale
sackings and there was real hunger in the
land.
Those pioneer leaders of the Labor
movement were fine men. A bit narrow,
perhaps; but what else could they be
with their single aim to get human
justice and to improve the living condi-
tions of their fellows? And they were
opposed by the full weight of employers.
To those original fighters and succes-
sors who carried on the fight is owed
the present strength of the trade-unions
and the relatively happy conditions of
the industrial workers. Those pioneer
battlers never dreamed that their goal
would be far exceeded in less than half
a century —high wages, short hours, old-
age and invalid pensions, child-endow-
ment, free medicine and other social
benefits, and an arbitration system in
which observance of awards is largely a
matter of subsequent decision on the
trade-union side.
All those things have been won and
will not be lost, so what is the aim of
“Labor” today? The campaign led by
Opposition-leader Dr. Evatt at the last
election was a revelation of irresponsi-
bility. The policy was a wild bid for the
Treasury benches without a shadow of
concern for the cost to the country. Some
at least of his predecessors must have
whirled in their graves as the Doctor went
on seeking the support of both the poor
and needy and the rich and greedy.
What remains of the “Labor” platform
to justify the continuance of the party?
Only the socialisation plank, and that is
not a good election-cry. The horrible
example of State-control of transport and
the dismal record of State trading enter-
prise give the electors pause. That is
good, but the disinterment of the plank,
sooner or later, is inevitable if the
“Labor” party is to have any further
logical justification for existence. —
G. Elburg (N.S.W.).
Australian Prices
As an indication of how Australia is
pricing itself out of world markets,
Auckland (N.Z.) fruitshops have oranges
marked Australian Is. 3d. per pound,
South African Is., Island 9d.
Last year we bought some type from
Australia (we operate a printery) for 225.
per pound. Since you can get English
and German foundry-type at around
10s. 6d. or 11s. per pound I queried the
price, but was assured that it could have
been worse. —W. A. (N.Z.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 295
Across
I— English entertainer is in a class
by himself. (6)
4—Train to deliver one blow alter
another. (4-4)
B—Tanned and immersed is the line
fastening a fish-hook. (3-6)
9_A mark of honor for me and a
backward boy. (5) . ,
10—Figure this is a horse in the
middle of the day. (7)
ll Milanese painter of the sun has
only one love. (7)
12—They are abrasive documents ot
Madame Dudevant. (10) _
15—Effortless wintry victory. (3)
17— if all the world was apple-pie
and all the sea was . . . ? (3)
18 — A joker runs forward and runs
back to a horse by an Australian
city. (5-5) , , ,
22 Just a sec quantity of hair visible
on the top lip in profile. (4, 1,2)
23 — Portable shelter held by oarlaps.
(7) .
26 Bowling averages are thus when
I get among the runs. (5)
27 Composer in favor of a knock-
out with five variations. (9)
28— County in North Carolina whose
member was noted for talking
nonsense with a hair arrangement
by a hairdresser for a start. (8>
29—Tradesmanlike diseuse noted for
her imitations as a quack imitator.
(6)
Down
1 — Speed castle. (8)
2 About a girl biographer of Jesus.
(5)
3 Rear cow can do it to cud. (5, 2)
4 The author of “The Raven” has
tea with another such literary
man. (4)
5 Fly about the French friend and
brood. (6)
6 A person so inferior that he is
even beneath the fish. (9)
7 Yellow-brown untouched by the
plough, but let follow forte. (6)
11—Shoot some equipment for illegal
bookmaking. (5)
13— Figure this is Loveless Leo. (9)
14— Craig is in the post office in
Solomon’s “kingdom.” (5)
15 — Jake a tumble when the fallow
cow’s cry is missing the inamor-
(4 4)
19 — Look after our conflict with the
obstinate name of London’s
antique street vale in Wiltshire.
(7)
20— Baby animal swallows her baby.
(6)
21— The donkey and I in company,
being the party for whom Desde-
mona pleaded. (6>
24 — Slide down the mountainside with
a legislator to give scanty
measure. (5)
25 — Queen that is a lake. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 294


■ ' v*
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS : D.
Aikmon St., South Melbourne
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield,
Mary vale and Broad ford (.Vic.),
Botany ( N.S.W. ),
TREES FOREVER
Manufacture of wood-pulp
opened a new era for the
Australian Paper Industry
A view of a pine nursery of A.P.M. Forests Pty. Ltd.,
showing some of the millions of seedlings which have
been planted out.
By wise use of forest resources
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. has created a source of
national wealth , and at the same time is ADDING to the total of
first-class forest areas.
ONE of Australia’s most remarkable industrial
achievements is the manufacture of pulp suitable for
the making of paper products used in wrapping and
packaging. These products require a strong pulp known
as Kraft.
Before 1939 Australia was
entirely dependent upon overseas
supplies of such pulp for paper-
making, but in that year the
Maryvale, Gippsland (Vic.) pulp
mill began production of pulp at
the rate of 500 tons per week,
using Australian Eucalypt hard-
wood as the raw material. Today,
the mill is turning out over 1000
tons of kraft pulp a week entirely
from Eucalypt hardwoods, in addi-
tion to some 400 tons of softwood
pulp from locally grown pines.
This pulp is now used for making
a very wide range of papers of
uniformly high quality.
The establishment of the Aus-
tralian Kraft pulp making industry
in 1939 opened a new era for the
expansion of the Australian paper
industry.
A.P.M. today is the principal
manufacturer and supplier, directly
or indirectly, of the bulk of the
paper and cardboard used for
packaging purposes in Australia.
There is hardly a factory, a shop
or a home which does not use an
A.P.M. product in some form
every day.
AUSTRALIAN
PIONEERS
A.P.M. is a primary as well as
a secondary industry. Its work
in pioneering and establishing the
manufacture of kraft wood-pulp
from Australian eucalypt timbers
has gained world-wide recognition.
A.P.M.’s requirements of pulp-
wood are of the order of 200,000
tons per year. The procurement
of this amount of timber requires
a large labor force and heavy
logging equipment.
A royalty is paid for all timber
cut from State forests, but the
company owns some eucalyptus
forest areas of its own. As these
company-owned forests are cleared
of pulp - wood, silvicultural
methods are adopted that are
expected to increase the growth
to two or three times the natural
rate.
8,000 ACRES
OF PINE TREES
In recent years the company
started a pine planting pro-
gramme by which it hopes within
20 years to make itself partly
independent of overseas long-fibre
pulps. In Gippsland over 8000
acres of pines have been planted
since the programme was started
in 1950. A small pine plantation
has also been purchased in N.S.W.
and is being developed. The com-
pany’s forestry subsidiary has
adopted the slogan ‘Trees For-
ever.” As a result of activities
in eucalyptus forests and in pine
plantations, pulpwood is being
grown at a faster rate than it is
being used.
HOW PULP
IS MADE
To make pulp from the timber,
the billets are first cut into small
chips and the chips then cooked
under pressure with white liquor
which is a solution of caustic
soda and sodium sulphide in
water. The cooking dissolves the
encrusting material from the chips,
leaving the cellulose fibres in a
free state.
The fibres (or pulp) are then
washed free of chemicals and
coloring matter and can then be
sent to the paper mill, the bleach
plant, or the Kamyr machines to
be lapped for transport to other
mills. The wash liquors contain-
ing the chemicals and the dis-
solved organic material from the
wood are then evaporated and the
organic material burnt in a
special boiler where most of the
process steam required is gen-
erated. The chemicals run from
this furnace in a molten state;
they are then dissolved in water,
causticised with lime and re-used
again in the cooking process.
The company operates its own
quarry at Buchan to supply lime-
stone, which is burnt at the mill
to form the lime for causticising.
An electrolytic plant is being
installed to produce chlorine and
caustic soda from salt. The
chlorine will be used for bleach-
ing the kraft pulp and some of the
caustic soda used as a make-up
chemical in the pulp mill.
The company operates a small
salt works on the shores of Lake
Alexandria, South Australia,
from which salt will be supplied
to the chlorine plant.
Another development by the
company has been the utilisation
of raw brown coal as a fuel for
industry. A.P.M. is the largest
industrial user of brown coal. It
draws brown coal from the State
Electricity Commission of Vic-
toria for its Maryvale Mill, and
provides the coal to its other
Victorian mills from an open-cut
at Bacchus Marsh operated by a
subsidiary.
This subsidiary company also
supplies substantial tonnages of
brown coal for industry generally
in the Melbourne area and has
recently obtained a contract from
the State Electricity Commission
of Victoria to supply up to
200,000 tons a year of brown coal
to the Commission’s new power
station at Ballarat. The current
production for all purposes is at
the rate of about 450,000 tons a
year.
DECENTRALISED
INDUSTRY
In Victoria A.P.M.’s activities
provide an example of decen-
tralisation. In addition to the
mills in the Melbourne area, it
has the pulp and paper mill at
Maryvale, a board mill at Broad-
ford, a brown coal open cut at
Bacchus Marsh and pine plan-
tations and eucalyptus forests in
Gippsland. The company has
built some 800 houses for its
employees in the towns of
Traralgon, Morwell, Broadford,
Tyers and others.
In the defence of Australia
A.P.M. has an important role.
Not only were its products for
wrapping and packaging required
to the full during the last war,
but the company also. produced
9000 tons of dissolving pulps from
pine for the manufacture of
explosives.
Without the products supplied
by A.P.M. Australia would have
had to use valuable shipping space
to bring supplies from overseas.
The company has a large re-
search organisation. An exaiftple
of the work of research is pro-
vided by the success in developing
to a semi-commercial stage, a pro-
cess for making from eucalypts,
pulps suitable for the manu-
facture of rayon and tyre yarn.
SV2 MILLION
PAYROLL
In the aggregate A.P.M. is big
by Australian standards, but its
ownership represents the pooling
of resources by almost 30,000
stock and debenture holders.
Many of these individual in-
vestors are companies, associations
or trustees, each again represent-
ing many individuals. Without
doubt well over 50,000 individuals
are concerned directly or in-
directly in owning A.P.M. Over
98 per cent, of the moneys in-
vested in A.P.M. have been pro-
vided from Australian sources. It
is a collective effort of Aus-
tralian people,
A.P.M. is the direct employer
of some 5400 people. In addition
there are dependent on A.P.M.
not only the many thousands who
provide raw materials to the com-
pany, but also large numbers
engaged in the various industries
which convert A.P.M.’s products.
This year the company’s wages
bill will amount to some
£5,500,000, and the company
will spend twice as much in the
purchase of raw materials, sup-
plies and services the greater
part in Australia.
The pulp and paper mil! of A.P.M. Ltd., at Maryvale,
near Traralgon (Gippsland).
The Botany Mill of Australian Paper Manufacturers
Ltd., situated on the shores of Botany Bay (N.S.W.).
Australian Paper Manufacturers
Limited is the oldest established
Australian paper producer and
had a capital of about £2,000,000
fifteen years ago. Today it has
over £20,000,000 invested in
plant and buildings, and now has
a pulp mill with a capacity of
75,000 tons of pulp and 14 paper
and board machines capable of
producing over 200,000 tons
yearly. These mills are located
in N.S.W. and Victoria.
AN ESSENTIAL
INDUSTRY
The range of products for
which A.P.M. provides the raw
material is wide. The convertors
which A.P.M. serve make such
products as solid and corrugated
fibre containers, multi-wall bags
such as are used for cement and
fertilisers, cartons of all grades,
set-up boxes, fibre drums, sisal
kraft for sacking, water-resistant
wrappings and the like, match-
boxes, cigarette packets, envelopes,
duplicating and blotting papers
and a host of other products.
It can be truly said that the
Australian paper industry is an
essential national industry, both in
time of peace, and from the view-
point of defence.
