

THE HOUSE
m
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
FROM ALICE TO ALBERT
“The Bulletin,” VoL 75—No. 3866
Wednesday, March 17, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
LIBERTY’S TUDOR FACADE
PRESERVES ROMANCE IN
MODERN LONDON
Seppelts
THROUGHOUT the centuries many London
shops have acquired a character and
tradition which has made them famous through-
out the world. Tradition is responsible for
the preservation of many picturesque survivals
in the shopping districts of the metropolis.
Shops that still possess an 18th-century facade
hold their own against the chromium-plate and
invisible-glass of more modern establishments.
In Holborn can be seen a row of shops
beneath the leaning timbers of a Tudor build-
ing that could have been seen by Shakspeare
or Queen Elizabeth I as they passed on their
way to Newgate or St. Paul’s. Even a village;
the quaint little village of Shephard Market,
near Piccadilly, has survived in modern London
to remind Londoners of a countryside that
has long since disappeared.
These survivals, among so much that is
elegant and up-to-date, give to a shopping
expedition in London a quality of adventure
and romance that cannot be found in any
other city.
Regent-street is known throughout the world
as one of London’s foremost thoroughfares of
fashion. A walk down the street introduces
the visitor to a remarkable array of goods, not
only of apparel, but also of furnishings for the
home. Nowhere is this more in evidence than
in the magnificent building of Liberty’s, which,
stone-fronted in Regent-street, unexpectedly
becomes Tudor and timbered round the corner
in Great Marlborough-street. The Liberty
building is well worth exploring for its own
sake, quite apart from the superb things that
are displayed for sale, which need no further
guarantee of quality than their name. The
store was founded in 1875 by Sir Arthur
Liberty, who chose his merchandise for its
excellence of quality and workmanship a
tradition that remains unchanged today. The
present vast and imposing building was built
in 1924 and oak timbers from ancient men-of-
war sailing-ships were used in its construction.
Its roof is surmounted by a weather-vane which
incorporates a replica of the Mayflower.
The supremacy of Regent-street as a shopping-
centre is due in no small measure to its superb
architectural planning by John Nash in 1820.
The street, with its sweep-quadrant, was
originally intended to provide a thoroughfare
for the Prince Regent from Carlton House in
Pall Mall to Regent’s Park. Although scarcely
a vestige of the original buildings now exists,
Regent-street has lost nothing of its princely
air, and as a shopping district it is second-to-
none.


Learn
Storu Writing
O iUiy at HOME
If you have the urge to' write and the
express your thoughts on paper,
STOTT S can tram you to write Short
Stories, .Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Bead these extracts from Stott-Students
letters;—
“My l earnings from my writing total almost
£<o. (Les. 11.)
During the past six months my accept
( tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
‘T have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Waikabour accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for ray Course.” axmosi
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereaeh St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane .If Grenfell
St.. Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth
~ mm ~ m ’~'CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
address
(S.B, 654)
AGE
The Red Page
CHARLES BAUDELAIRE
It is not until the last sentence of his
305-page study of Baudelaire (Hamish
Hamilton) that Martin Turnell drops his
bomb:
It was because he was so completely an
artist, so disdainful of the theory that
poetry should inculcate a moral, that he
remains after all the greatest European
poet of the century.
It is pleasing to see one’s own con-
clusion confirmed, though Mr. Turnell
has other and contrary reasons. Bau-
delaire certainly did not “inculcate a
moral” as, say, Tennyson did; but the
trouble about people who inculcate
morals is not so much their morals as that
they inculcate ; and Baudelaire was a pro-,
digious inculcator, making endless war
upon one vice, stating his subject in the
superb address to the reader that opens
his book:
C’est I’Ennui!
It is boredom. The girls are a bore;
religion is a bore; the sunset is a bore;
the city is a bore, likewise the country;
life is a bore, but then, so is death ; virtue
is a bore, but not half as boring as vice;
almost every theme he takes up turns into
an argument on this one subject, on which
he harps, thunders and nags—in short,
inculcates. Baudelaire the dissectionist of
feeling, a view to which Mr. Turnell
admirably contributes, makes a truer pic-
ture than Baudelaire the flabby laureate
of the Black Mass, but although he “dis-
dained the theory that poetry should
inculcate a moral,” he could not, in his
peculiarly inverted way, avoid it in
practice.
To this extent one could agree with Mr.
Turnell, that much of Baudelaire’s work
is weakened by his inverted moralising.
His attack on boredom is by no means
boring, he is a most varied writer, and
the supreme master of surprise, the sudden
turn of argument and even of effects
which approximate modulation in music
from one key to another; nor did he dis-
dain to shock the middle-classes with
such things as the poem about a corpse
which, Victor Hugo assured him, gave the
world “a new shudder.” But when we
come back to Baudelaire after some years,
the surprises and the shudders have been
worn threadbare, and leave distressingly
obvious the unchanging thread of argu-
ment that supported them: the putting-up
of an accepted ideal of happiness and the
knocking of it down with the ’ard, cold
world:
Angel of gaiety, have you tasted grief?
Shame and remorse and sobs and weary
spite,
And the vague terrors of the fearful night
That crush the heart up like a crumpled
leaf?
Angel of gaiety, have you tasted grief?
So many things go out in this later in-
spection; the “frightful Jewess”; the
corpse that the years have worn into a
skeleton; the damned Lesbians—all those
pieces in which Baudelaire puts on a hor-
rible face to frighten you in the dark;
and even the much-praised last poem, “Le
Voyage,” with its “Death, old captain,”
seems tarnished with adolescent cynicism.
But it is at this stage of disenchant-
ment that we begin really to appreciate
Baudelaire; even in a piece like
“Reversibilite,” in which the overall feel-
ing no longer charms us, the leap and
power of the verse remains, and a fault
seen in the English translation accentu-
ates Baudelaire’s quality as a poet:
Sturm translates:
That crush the heart up like a crumpled
leaf;
and this does not convey Baudelaire’s
picture. He said:
Qui compriment le cceur comme un papier
qu’on froisse
(Which compress the heart like a paper one
crushes).
For (he most part Baudelaire’s trans-
lators fail utterly to capture his tone.
“He was born sensual and precise,” says
Valery; and that is a rare enough gift
to poets, let alone translators. Almost
without exception translators make him
a romantic ; and one of the few unexcep-
tionable translations is Sturm’s version
of “Causerie”:
You are a sky of autumn, pale and rose!
But all the sea of sadness in my blood
Surges, and ebbing, leaves my lips morose,
Salt with the memory of the bitter flood.
Those are almost his words ; that is his
movement; but the romantic beauty of
the picture has much to do with Sturm’s
ability to recapture it: what we see in it
now, after scores of commentators have
raved over it, is the classic precision of
the figure. For the most part the
exigencies of rhyme, and probably the
English romantic tradition, fail miserably
to convey Baudelaire —perhaps there are
better translations than Sturm’s, but his
deficiencies emphasise Baudelaire’s quali-
ties, as in the opening of “The Voyage”:
The world is equal to the child’s desire
Who plays with pictures by his .nursery
fire —
How vast the world by lamplight seems!
How small
When memory’s eyes look back, remember-
ing all!
This, of course, is a reasonable para-
phrase of:
Pour I’enfant, amoreux de cartes et
d’estampes,
L’univers est ega! a son vaste appetit.
Ah! que le monde est grand a la clarte des
lampes!
Aux yeux du souvenir que le monde est
petit!
The quality of this great opening is its
natural, easy movement, conversational
and idiomatic ; Sturm changes the rhyme-
scheme and turns the rhythm to a jog-
trot, Of course, as with the best of
Baudelaire, it is untranslatable:
For the child, amorous of maps and pic-
tures,
The universe is equal to his vast appetite.
Ah! How big the world is in the light of
the lamps!
To the eyes of memory, how small it is!
Here again, inability to get the same
effect in word-for-word English affords
some measure of Baudelaire’s accom-
plishment : for here he illustrates one of
the greatest poetic accomplishments, the
gaining of poetic effect without any of
the trappings of poetry —figures, inver-
sions, romantic words. It is in such
writing that Baudelaire most justifies
Valdry when he says of him, “classic is
the author who carries a critic in him-
self.” He can write in the high manner
without metaphor and without inver-
sions ; and when he uses metaphor he
uses it precisely. At the same time, he
has the faults of a classical writer bora
to break up an age of romanticism ; even
Mr. Turnell is ashamed of the fashion-
able romantic adjectives terrible,
horrible, affreux, effrayant, etc. —that
clutter up his work; and much of his
emotional self-dramatisation is a similar
disease of the times which obscures his
classical essence.
As one would expect, his classical
quality appears most in the poems in
which he is looking out, and not in ; and
where he is moralising least on his amoral
theme: notably in the poems “Le Cygne”
and “Le Vin des Chiffonniers.” It is not
for a humble reviewer to rival the praise
that so fine a critic as Peter Quennell
has heaped upon “The Swan” in his
book Baudelaire and the Symbolists; but
one does feel that Mr. Turnell has let one
down badly over “Le Vin des Chiffon-
niers” —he dismisses the section in which
it appears absolutely:
The intrinsic value of the five poems it
contains is not great.
That is a terrible thing to say about
the greatest poem ever written about
the poor. It is a poem to which one
returns again and again ; for its strength,
its precision, its sarcastic humor, its turn
after turn of thought whose surprises
never lose their enchantment, its de-
velopment from the most unlikely be-
ginnings into an equation of drunkenness
with glory, and then into a hymn to
glory.
If Baudelaire is “the greatest European
poet of the century” it is on this poem his
glory should rest. At the height of its
march, when the drums beat and the
flags wave and a superb line carries it to
its climax :
Ils apportaint la gloire au peuple ivre
d’amour,
it achieves one of those rare moments in
art where time stops, and a poem bora
of the poem seems to hover above it.
We heard a similar effect in music re-
cently when Richard Farrell played some
Brahms variations —but in English poetry
of the 19th century one can think of
nothing like it but the figure of Autumn
in Keats’s Ode, or maybe Ruth in his
“Ode to a Nightingale.” If we are to
put Baudelaire above Keats as Mr.
Turnell must if he includes English poets
under the heading “European,” we can
find a good argument in Mr. Quennell’s
book; —
He [Baudelaire] had enjoyed a sense
of his own age, had recognised the pat-
tern while the pattern was yet incomplete
and had anticipated many problems both on
the aesthetic and moral plane in which the
fate of modern poetry is still concerned.
Keats was in many ways as gifted as
Baudelaire ; he was much less a moralist,
if that weighs with Mr. Turnell; but he
certainly did not have a sense of his
own age.
All of which, one fears, is in flagrant
disregard of Mr. Turnell’s book, which
is a section-by-section, poem-by-poem
analysis of Baudelaire’s poems, with a
chapter on his originality, a discussion
of his life as it affected his poetry, infor-
mation about his black mistress and two
white mistresses —he was a perverse
lover, it seems, and may have been
impotent—an analysis of his style, and
especially a treatise on the “architecture”
of the Fleurs du Mai. Mr, Turnell is
one of the modern scholars who puts
great importance on the interpretation of
all the poems as a single poem, and he
has a great deal to say about their prob-
able times of composition, and their
order, at one time quoting Baudelaire
as an authority, and at another assuring
us that “The poet is not necessarily the
best judge of the precise order in which
his work should be arranged” . . .
Perhaps the present reviewer has said
enough to indicate that there may be
another point of view, namely, that one
great poem transcends all systems and
arrangements; but for those of the
opposite party, and, indeed for all in-
terested in Baudelaire, Mr. Turnell’s
book is full of information, much of
which must be new to English readers.
R. McCUAIG.
Constable and Bosch
Two exceptionally attractive additions
to the Faber Gallery art-books, which
lately have been too much concerned
with the minutiae of Persian and Indian
art to be more than mildly interesting,
are Constable Sketches and Bosch.
Constable was, of course, the Suffolk
mill-owner’s son, born in 1776, who made
the great modification in English land-
scape-painting from the park-like clas-
sicism of the 18th century to the realis-
tic “natural” style which, though new
modes of tinkering with realism are
fashionable, has persisted to this day
wherever great landscape-painting is to
be found. He was, as this book rightly
reminds us, “the brilliant herald of Im-
pressionism”—an English movement for
which it is usual, for some odd reason,
to give the credit to Paris.
This book contains Constable’s oil-
sketches which, mostly done on paper,
seem to have stayed in a remarkable
state of freshness and which illustrate
more clearly and dramatically than the
large “finished” landscapes he worked-
up from them the excitement and sen-
sitivity of his response to Nature and
the essentially impressionistic quality of
both his vision and his style.
Except for a few beach-scenes from
Brighton, they are mostly sombre little
pictures, full of stormy skies and dark
masses of foliage, but astonishingly rich
in color and vivid with the movement
of wind, clouds, branches, mill-sails and
rivers. There is absolutely no period
“dating” but the freshness of immediate
life in such dramatic little landscapes as
“Mill Near Brighton,” “Willy Lott’s
House” and “Sluice on the Stour.”
Bosch —Hieronymus Bosch, to give him
the full resonance of his name—was the
surrealist-to-end-all-surrealists, born some
time before 1460 in the Netherlands, who
is probably best-known for the terrific
impression of Hell he painted in the altar-
piece known as “The Garden of De-
lights,” now in the Prado in Madrid.
Bosch had seen the wars of Charles
the Bold and the beginning of the In-
quisition in his country, and when he let
himself go with a theme of terror and
disaster he had a rare, a unique force.
He gave his Hells a semi-realistic setting,
as if they were burning cities; and the
“Garden of Delights” picture, with its
shafts of light like searchlights, its
tongues of yellow flame, its lurid red
glow on the water and its flight of naked
and terror-stricken victims, looks extra-
ordinarily like a prophetic dramatisation
of the bombing of London . . .. an im-
pression oddly enhanced because the
great dark light-tipped globe that floats
among the burning buildings, which could
be the moon or the earth itself suspended
IT* j ’ rem inds a modern observer of
the dome of St. Paul’s.
But there was also a good deal of fun
in Boseh and he painted gay-colored
no extremely peculiar fantasies in which,
° c t uote from R, H. Wilenski’s com-
mentary :
t _- ] L T } the appetite of invention cer-
tainly grew as he invented. In the section
snown in this plate for example [the cen-
the “Garden of Delights”
iripiyonj he paints a procession of giant
s 7* wild-duck, kingfisher, hoopoe,
fh l dpec^?r goldfinch and mounts
them with little figures, including one
youth who caresses a black girl; and,
aoove, he joins twenty youths in acrobatic
puts a seed-pod above them, then
a bird s head with a yard-long beak, then
a strawberry upon the bird’s head, then a
P an .°t human legs as a waving panache
ua the strawberry, and when all is done
he sends a rabbit tightrope-walking down
the beak; and elsewhere he makes youths
the porters of a great lobster’s claw, and
P u £ s more youths inside it, and a*bear-
cub, as a last idea, on top.
Both volumes are notable for the quiet
good sense of their commentaries. Mr.
Wilenski does not attempt too much
Freudian, religious or mystical explana-
tion of Bosch, but puts a lot of his odd-
ities down simply to “the spirit of in-
vention”— which is probably the best way
to approach many of Norman Lindsay’s
fantasies in watercolor. Jonathan
Mayne, introducing the Constable vol-
ume, unfortunately seems to find it neces-
sary to put Turner down in order to bring
Constable up, but remains a rarity among
contemporary art-critics in that, instead
of talking mere geometrical jargon, he
discusses painting as if it were an art
that had something to do with life, with
Nature and with poetry; seeing Con-
stable’s “cast of mind,” as well as the
revolution he achieved in bringing land-
scape-painting back from stylisation to
Nature, as very closely akin to the mind
and the achievement of his great contem-
porary in literature, Wordsworth.
Safe-breaker and Spy
Except that it is told gaily and firmly
instead of in the customary grim whine,
Frank Owen’s The Eddie Chapman
Story (Wingate) is so much like
Graham Greene’s Brighton Rock,
many of Simenon’s novels and all
the rest of contemporary fiction
that takes the spiv for hero that
it seems that life must be imitatirfg art
again. Eddie Chapman was a safe-
breaker in England before World War II
and was released by the Germans from
prison on Jersey Island to become a spy
for them, Frank Owen tells his story
“in his own words.”
'The book is adorned by a singularly
exaggerated blurb which speaks of “this
startling and agonisingly exciting book”
and of “one of the most hair-raising
adventure-stories ever to be told in
print.” This reviewer, for one, found
himself quite able to keep his hair on:
the reason being that, as Mr. Owen says
in his foreword, only half Chapman’s
story can be told, and all the real excite-
ment is in the untold half.
What this mysterious better-half may
be is not very hard to guess. Chapman
was never prosecuted for being a traitor
or a German spy; but when he let out
some of the true facts of his career in
Germany he was prosecuted for a breach
of the Official Secrets Act. Those who
know the full story or those who are able
to read the secret drama between every
line may find the book reasonably, if
not quite agonisingly, exciting; but the
general reader will be more impressed by
the complete absence of excitement as
Chapman walks calmly about with Secret
Service and Gestapo men in bombed
Berlin and even when he is dropped by
parachute to do sabotage in Britain and,
so he tells the Germans, blows-up a vital
powerhouse. There is just a hint of sus-
pense when a Secret Service woman in
Norway accuses him of being a British
spy and a stronger note near the end
when an effeminate little Gestapo man
refuses to believe in his genuineness and
follows him about the cafes of Paris.
However, as a straightforward account
of the permissible half of the story the
book is interesting enough, It is not
every day that a safebreaker describes
the pleasures of his profession; and,
if the biographies of fallen Nazi
leaders such as Goebbels and Rommel
have told us all we need to know about
life in Germany under the bombardment.
Chapman’s story still has the value of
first-hand observation.
He gives some illuminating details
the techniques of spying and sabotage
and his portraits of the Germans with
whom he was chiefly associated —Secret
Service men in contrast to the Gestapo
and the S.S.—are interesting for the
frankness with which he describes his
pleasure in their company.


Australia’s finest bowls jacket
is our own exclusive
■ c;i :
-
.
I
I M
.- ■ ---\
■■
I I
i
IP
Vi
£ ■■
— ll ■!
-\ v
II
■
\]
■■
L. r
v : K
.11
sw
H
i ■
mmm I
i||::|| 11
'h. Si.
■ ■
■., 1
Bill
■■
■
REGD. TRADE MARK
We are the only people in town to
stock “Jack High” Bowling Jacket
tailored by Casben. This light-
weight jacket is famous for its
warmth, its free and roomy cut,
and is “the most comfortable
bowling jacket I’ve ever worn,
says one of our leading bowlers.
It’s tailored in easy to launder
Superlaine that matches your
creams. Look at the windproof
cuffs and the neat zipp up front.
High’’ is made to fit almost
every bowler sizes are 34 to 46
chest. The price is £5/19/6.
We keep only the best
DUNLOP and HENSELITE BOWLS
All sizes, 4 13-16 in., 4|in., 4 15-16 in., sin., 5 1-16 in.
Dunlop priced £B/-/- set of 4; Henselite £B/1/3.
Indoor Carpet Bowls, 4in. £5/7/6, £3/12/6.
Bowls—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
POPULAR CASE FOR BOWLERS
Fibre bowl case to hold four bowls, £3/3/-. Fordite bowl
case to hold four bowls, shoes, etc., £4/8/6.
Cases, Lower Ground Floor.
.
: u f
' •
m
IHPiI
White Nubuck or Tan Calf
BOWLING SHOES AT 79/- Pr.
0, . *
Specially designed for bowlers. Genuine welts, no caps.
Full and half sizes. Red rubber soles. Shoes, Ground
Fir., George St. Yes, you can ’phone or mail your orders.
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
fs
Store now opens at 8.30. Box 2712, G.P.0., Sydney. Phone: M 2401


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 17, 1954
VoL 75—No. 3866
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone. BU 5971.
-Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
DEFENCE AND FRIENDSHIP
The signing of a defence pact between the United
States and Japan follows closely on the agreement of
Western Germany to take part in the defence of
Western Europe and to provide a substantial force for
the European Army.
It is inevitable and necessary that both Japan and
Germany should have means of defence. Indeed, it
would be impossible to prevent either from acquiring
it without turning them into slave peoples under
perpetual military occupation by conquerors. The
upsurge of national feeling in nations such as these, the
one with the second-largest population in Western
Europe—it would be the largest if East Germany were
returned to it—the other the most powerful potentially
in industry and striking-power in Eastern Asia, cannot
be controlled from outside, as history has taught again
and again.
The agreement between the United States and
Japan merely provides for a skeleton defence against
aggression. As Mr. Casey sensibly says, it offers no
threat to Australia provided the rearmament is limited
and conforms to an understanding made between the
Commonwealth and Washington. The danger lies not
in any power of aggression which the rearmament gives
the Japanese, but in whether, in their fear of Japanese
aggression, American organisers of the pact have not
been motivated by a desire to brigade Japan with the
United States rather than with the world’s friendly
nations in general.
There is a tendency among leaders in the United
States who profess to stand aghast at the supposed
imperialism of the British in Asia to establish an
empire for themselves, or at least a monopoly of
diplomatic and commercial influence. And this pact,
with its agreement to a defence force of 160,000
carried on with an advisory group of 700 Americans
and bought by the Japanese with various trade con-
cessions, runs true to the State Department’s normal
modern form.
The force will be almost useless against the kind
of attack which may be expected by a determined
enemy whose coasts lie parallel for more than 1000
miles to Japanese shores. And it is absurd to believe
that the Japanese in their continually nervous condition
will be long prepared to stay undefended if they feel
that a real threat is developing. Moreover, it is
unbelievable that if the way is presently opened to
them, as it must be if the Chinese Communist Govern-
ment can stabilise itself, Japan will not be forced
into large-scale trading with mainland Asia so soon as
native shipping becomes available.
All attempts by the United States (whose rqlers
from the days of President Wilson to Yalta and from
Yalta to the Japanese agreement, have proved to be
naive and uoinstructed in the elements of international
diplomacy) to control the situation will fail when
the pressure comes on. The result must be a condi-
tion of affairs which is as likely as not to draw Japan
into an enemy zone instead of into'our own, especially
if American tutelage continues to be associated with
gloomy acceptance of the delusion that Japan is an
eternal enemy which is, perhaps naturally, so prevalent
in countries that were threatened in 1942-45. In Aus-
tralia this belief is not only widely held but is a matter
of local politics, and used as part of the alarmist propa-
ganda of the “Labor’’ party, which 15 years ago was
the main source of the idea that Japan was not
aggression-minded and should be conciliated.
The fact is that Japan and China are not merely
American-zone problems but world problems , not to
be tackled on the basis of fear or dislike, but on the
realistic basis that the East Asian peoples are firmly
established facts of Nature, and that we must live
with them and reckon with their vast potentials of
manpower and material no less than with Japan’s lack
of soil on which to plant its growing population. We
cannot budget for the world future without providing
for these two great countries any more than we can
budget without considering India and, for that matter,
Russia, And we cannot have world peace on a per-
manent basis until there is some evening-up of standards
as between the highly civilised West and the still-
restricted East.
The whole incentive to world revolution promoted,
by the Russian leaders lies at bottom in the unevenness
of world standards of living and comfort. And the
same applies very much in the rest of Asia, The
first step in obtaining peace in the world is the
rationalising of trade-barriers and the establishment of
everyday intercourse between nations. It is not easy
because of the attitude of the nations themselves, since
all Eastern and Northern Asiatic nations are naturally
exclusive-minded, acting according to medieval rather
than to modern ideas of freedom of association and
behavior. But a start might be made by reducing
interference to a minimum and trying to treat in good
faith all-round rather than in a spirit of fqar.
This does not call for any relaxation of vigilance
or reduction in our standards of security. Whether
we like it or not both Japan and Germany are becom-
ing once again atom-minded, and Western Germany
already has large-scale plans for atomic industry
which are calculated to give it the lead on the Con-
tinent for a few years. And, apart from the primary
danger from Communism, we must always take into
account the power to strike of even the most friendly
nations which may come under control of an enemy
and fall in with his designs. The lesson of France
under Vichy is something to be kept in mind, just as
much as the lesson of Germany under Hitler. At the
same time, security can always be paralleled with
friendliness. It is only the nation which is threatened
which is afraid to see its neighbors strong, And there
is no reason in the Pacific why the attitude of mind
to Japanese arming should not, under proper condi-
tions, be similar to that of the British towards the
arming of France and the Low Countries.
After all, at the end of the Napoleonic wars the
British Isles could never have been persuaded that
France could be anything but a traditional enemy and
a menace. Yet sane diplomacy and a common threat
to both brought the two nations together to such a
degree that war between them is today as unthinkable
as it would be between the United Kingdom and the
United States —the same United States in which
Theodore Roosevelt half a century ago was meditating
that it was not outside possibility that the War of
Independence might have to be repeated.
End the Six-o'clock Swill
It is in keeping with the restful leisureliness that has
all along characterised the N. S. Wales Liquor Inquiry
—it was reluctantly and grudgingly granted ; its pro-
ceedings were long-drawn-out, and the commissioner’s
report set a new record for its period of gestation—
that, although three weeks have elapsed since the
report was released, the Cahill Government has s(iown
nofign of being stirred into activity by it.
A feature of the liquor traffic on which Maxwell,
J., was most outspoken and on which the public is
entitled to expect some definite action or statement
from the Government is what his Honor described as
“the six-o’clock swill,” saying that there were evils
associated with it “which ought not to be tolerated
in a civilised community.” That is the considered
opinion of the commissioner, and it is also an opinion
widely held even among those who participate in it.
There is no more reason for hotel-closing hours
being a political question than for “Time, gentlemen,
please” being regarded as a call sacrosanct to six
o’clock. Liquor-trading hours in the various States
have not changed much in the past 30 years, despite
frequent changes of Government. At the present time
the shutters go up at 6 p.m. in “Labor”-governed
N. S. Wales and Victoria and in Liberal South
Australia, but they stay down till 9 p.m. in “Labor”
Westralia (11 p.m. on the goldfields) and 10 p.m. in
“Labor” Queensland and Tasmania. No one would
seriously argue that there is any great difference in
the morals of Sydney and Brisbane ; it is simply a case
of variation in liquor laws making the crimes of
Woolloomooloo chaste in Woolloongabba. And
although Dr Evatt has been quick to announce that
he disapproves of any extension of drinking hours in
the ’Loo (and elsewhere in N. S. Wales) it is not likely
that he will tell electors at the ’Gabba (and elsewhere
in Queensland) that he favors their drinking hours
being tailored to the same measurements as those
south of the border.
All parties have shown a cowardly approach
towards extension of closing hours. It seems unlikely
that anything more positive than a buck-passing
referendum will come out of the Cahill Government’s
deliberations on the Maxwell report, and the Liberal
Opposition has made a definite announcement that
it will oppose any attempt at extension without a
referendum. Much of the attitude of both parties
stems from a fear of the anti-liquor vote, the political
strength of which appears to be greatly overestimated.
There is no doubt that the “anti” vote is very vocal,
but its own assessment of its numerical strength is based
on the false assumption that everyone who votes for
six-o’clock closing at a referendum is heart and soul
behind the movement, whereas it is unlikely that any
large proportion of voters would change their general
political allegiance through a disagreement with the
party on liquor laws. In any case, if the opposing
political parties agree to treat the question as a non-
party matter, that fear vanishes.
In his report the commissioner summarised the
attitude of witnesses in regard to six-o’clock closing.
Several members of the U.L.V.A. council satisfied his
Honor ‘that they genuinely favored a later closing
hour mainly to abolish ‘the six-o’clock swill’ and in the
public interest,” and he felt that the council “wbuld
appear to favor later closing with a break in the
afternoon.” On the other hand possibly the majority
of licensees preferred to stick to six-o’clock “because
the return from" the sale of liquor is obtained more
quickly than with the burden of supervision and added
labor involved in later hours.”
He found the opinion “of some clerical witnesses
and of the Temperance Alliance firmly against an
extension of hours, with an added insistence of a
referendum to decide the question”:
It is demonstrable that the opinion of a par-
ticular witness that shorter hours are desirable,
however honest that opinion is, loses much force if,
in fact, the witness would, if possible, close hotels
altogether.
This mild rebuke of the so-called temperance
advocates who forget that temperance means modera-
tion, not abstinence and far less prevention, was merited
by the anti-liquor professionals. A broadminded
Anglican archdeacon went much further in a recent
letter to the “S. M. Herald.” Ascribing part of the
blame for the beer-swill to the fact that the young
man of today “has not been taught to drink like a
civilised Christian and guzzles his beer,” he continued:
. Owing to the identification of official Protestant-
ism with extreme Puritanism, the religion of the
majority has never faced the duty of teaching its
young how one of God’s good gifts may be enjbyed
L emperance and sobriety, and that its abuse, BUT
NOT ITS USE, is a grave sin like theft or immorality.
If thq “temperance” folk devoted less time to
trying to prevent sensible people from drinking after
six o clock and more to educating youngsters in the
foolishness of overindulgence, they would be doing
more good to the cause they serve, for, after all, it
should not be malt, hops and alcohol in themselves
that arouse indignation and disgust, but rather the ill
effects of their excessive use. For a start the “antis”
might give their attention to the lunch-hour guzzle—a
purely post-war phenomenon which, as any industrial
psychologist can testify, takes its toll of industry in
lowered production and higher accident-rate.
Civilised drinking implies drinking in a leisurely
manner, and the evening is the only time the average
man gets for leisurely drinking.
Surely it is time for a more adult approach to
the subject? As the commissioner puts it “the refusal
to attempt some reform involves the conscious per-
petuation of a clearly established evil.” Liquor hours
should be a subject on which the political parties can
come to a sensible agreement without passing the buck
by holding a referendum which would make allies of
prohibitionists and publicans, with blackmarketers as
cheer-leaders.
And it is up to Mr. Cahill to make the first move.
Busy Factories
Though very little noise is being made about it,
Australia at present is engaged in the greatest manu-
facturing activity it has ever known. In many major
industries, such as steelmaking, the figures of 1950-51,
when the post-war inflationary boom was at its dizziest,
have now been left well behind. Cement, bricks, tiles,
timber and other building materials are being pro-
duced and used in record quantities. The sale of
domestic electrical appliances is at its highest level.
True, there are some industries, such as woollen-
textile and earthmoving-equipment manufacturing (to
quote two widely different kinds), which have not
recovered to the 1950-51 rate. But the all-over picture
is one of very busy factories.
At the same time there is a better balance in
industry than there was three years ago. There is
very little waiting for raw materials now. A builder
can get most of his - requirements on short notice.
Foundries don’t have to wait so long for pig-iron.
Non-ferrous metals such as copper, brass, lead and
zinc are comparatively easy to get. Blackmarket
prices have generally disappeared. Costly imported
cement. Continental galvanised-iron, barbed-wire and
wire-netting are being replaced by the cheaper locally
made article.
Prices generally have steadied. Even before the
freezing of wage-rates there was an improvement
through greater man-hour output in many industries.
The Menzies-Fadden anti-inflation programme of 1951
stimulated production by wage-earners, and some
industries were able to absorb basic-wage increases
for a time without raising their prices. Now the wage-
freeze is giving industry as a whole a chance to deal
effectively with the cost problem.
One item in costs is difficult to deal with. That
is the cost of transport. It would be hard to say
that efficiency has improved in the State railway
services over the past two years. Freight-rates have
increased, and, with huge deficits still being incurred
on the financial side, it is unlikely that freight-charges
have yet reached their top.
Shipping freights, too, are high. Imperial Chemical
Industries, in its case before the Tariff Board, has
shown how the rising cost of transport has offset
many of the economies effected in its alkali industry
on the manufacturing fcide.
Transport is a problem still to be tackled seriously
in Australia. Most State railways are run, in effect, by
the trade-unions themselves, since “Labor”-governed
States are union-governed. But even in South Aus-
tralia, where Premier Playford takes a firmer stand,
motor transport, which is often cheaper and more
efficient and flexible than rail transport, has been taxed
and regulated into impotence. The vested interest of
State-owned railways is one of the chief economic
problems this country has yet to overcome.
Though manufacturing industry is now highly
productive, there is still a special emphasis in all our
activity on consumer-goods and domestic housing.
A scarcity of capital has been a feature of the
post-war period. There has been not enough produc-
tion, not enough profit, not enough saving and not
enough investment. The position is improving.
Already during this 1953-54 financial term higher
interim dividends are forthcoming from many manu-
facturing companies, indicating that profits have been
higher. The position has been helped by the lower
taxes payable this year. It all means that there will
be a bigger plough-back of funds into industry and
public works, thus increasing the productive potential
of Australia as a whole.


THE TEMPTATION OF JOHN HOP


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cain Wasn't Able
Whether the Labor party’s objection to
the acceptance of honors stems from a
now-vanished desire for republicanism,
from a feeling that such things are
outmoded, from the inverted snobbery of
the bowyangs period or from some other
cause or causes is a matter for debate;
but Premier Cain’s action in refusing to
permit any awards to be conferred by
the Queen in connection with the Royal
visit to Victoria is boorish in the extreme.
If Mr. Cain feels it is against his con-
science to accept honors —although he
sees no wrong in wearing his Coronation
and Jubilee medals—that is perhaps his
own concern ; but there is no reason why
he should make the same decision on
behalf of others who might regard recog-
nition by her Majesty a real honor.
In defending his attitude, the Victorian
Premier said it was one of long standing
as “Labor” policy and that
this policy, singularly enough, is in accord-
ance with the attitude of all political
parties in the Dominion and Provinces of
Canada, as well as in other parts of the
British Commonwealth of Nations.
There was no necessity to go to Canada
for precedents; in the Dominion, as in
South Africa, racial questions have
always made relationships with the
Crown rather delicate. Cain had before
him the example of the two Australian
States which her Majesty had already
visited, both of them, singularly enough,
“Labor”-governed. Neither Premier
Cahill nor Premier Cosgrove accepted
personal honors, but both permitted
officials connected with the tour to do so.
The Royal Victorian Order, the dis-
tinction awarded to several officials in
N. S. Wales and Tasmania, was instituted
in 1896 “in recognition of personal ser-
vices to Queen Victoria,” and, although
its scope has since been greatly widened,
it is still largely a personal bestowal by
the Queen. In allowing his own personal
wishes to be paramount, Mr. Cain was
offering definite affront to her Majesty.
If “Labor” leaders are seeking a way of
escape for their consciences in the matters
of honors, they can find it in the changes
wrought by the Royal Titles Act. Her
Majesty is now Queen of Australia ; an
Australian who found himself unable to
accept a distinction from the King of
England should surely find it a different
matter when his own Queen seeks to
honor him.
Personality and Success
The intrusion of Mr. Cahill and Sir
Arthur Fadden bearing gifts * into the
inaugural ceremony of Sydney Uni-
versity’s Nuclear Research Foundation
caps the triumph of Professor Messel,
who came' here a little more than a
year ago, unknown and with about
every obvious disadvantage any man
could have in the task he had under-
taken —the establishment of nuclear
research at Sydney University.
He came to a State where Socialism
and bureaucratic control are common-
places in university Tife, and where, in
consequence, would-be benefactors nor-
mally feel that all giving should be the
prerogative of the State. He came,
moreover, to a university at which
supplication for funds by professors is
looked on as immodest and rather
undignified. He was the subject of
whispering campaign about his politics
until somebody discovered that he was
a prize product of Kingston Military
Academy, Canada’s equivalent of Dun-
troon.
With no assets save his own personal-
ity this young man, who is only 32, has
proved that self-help is still possible in
a regimented community which fights
shy of ability and is notorious the world
over for the raw deal which it generally
gives to leaders.
His year’s achievement is worth re-
viewing by other young men who
grumble that they are not supported.
By the sheer power of his reputation
as a world scientist he has attracted to
Sydney a team of nuclear physicists,
and workers ia attendant sciences, which
has no superior in the world outside
two or three famous schools of science,
such as the Cavendish at Cambridge. It
was his especial triumph that he was
able to attract them here before he was
even able to give satisfactory guarantees
that their pay might be available to
them for long.
He began operations to provide
finance for his work less than a year
ago. He has to-day raised over
£225,000 in actual cash, apart from a
gift from Illinois University of blue-
prints and material for an electronic
brain valued at another £50,000 —a testi-
mony to what world scientists think of
him. He has earned the confidence of
everybody. He has overcome a strain
of opposition among scientists and
university leaders. He has become a
national figure.
And he is ready to begin work to
establish Sydney University, which had
been growing gradually more and more
like a sausage-machine for attaching
diplomas and the alphabet to memori-
sers in search of jobs, as one of the
great nuclear research-centres of the
world. He is, of course, not the only
research-worker of note in the Uni-
versity, which has produced some very
striking ones itself, though rather in
spite of itself. But those already there
were feeling the cold touch of despair
when he arrived.
The Canadian immigrant’s experience
should prove to them that even under
muddle-headed bureaucracy controlled
by a Minister who formed his views of
education on the inspiration of the
Communist party, to which he was a
tutor in public-speaking, there is still a
place left for self-help * and energy. It
suggests that if the University were freed
a little from Socialist trammels and
made to stand more on its own feet it
might realise that it could make itself
a much better and more useful uni-
versity than it is by attracting high talent
and selling it to public opinion.
McCarthyism and Truth
“Ek Dum” : It is difficult at a distance to
judge the inwardness of the quarrel raging
in the United States about Senator
McCarthy’s operations,' but it is a matter
on which those experienced in dealing
with Communists will form their judg-
ments very carefully.
There is little doubt but that the United
States during the Roosevelt Administra-
tion became honeycombed with Com-
munism—honeycombed to such an extent
that State Department advice sold the
world to Moscow for a song at Yalta, the
President’s draftsmen and one of his
leading advisers being Alger Hiss, since
a proved Kremlin spy and now in jail
for perjury. There is no doubt, either,
th'at the ramifications of the Moscow
cold-war system have been built with a
staggering ingenuity which almost baffles
the authorities in dealing with it, as
shown, for example, by the official reports
made after long and sedulous inquiry into
the affairs of the Institute of Pacific
Affairs and various U.S. departments.
The fact that the United States Govern-
ment exercises a care which seems almost
hysterical in excluding from the country
visitors who have had friendly though
often, perhaps, disinterested contacts
with Communists is an index to the
difficulties of dealing with the matter in
a land in which freedom of speech and
action have always hitherto been an
obsession. And the need for precaution
has been highlighted by the admission of
Mr. Nixon, the Vice-President, obviously
President Eisenhower’s spokesman, that
422 persons had been dropped from
Government payrolls since May last on
information indicating subversive activity.
Senator McCarthy may be an extremist,
even a wild extremist, but nobody who
has dealt at close quarters with Com-
munism will deny that, his self-imposed
task is one which is calculated to induce
extremism; as it is one which, on the
past experience of others, is likely to
generate such a campaign of vituperative
opposition against him, as against every
other attacker of Communism, that it is
difficult to discover where the truth lies.
Australia has had many experiences of
the kind. The Australia First Movement
essayed a war on Communism; but its
leaders, not the Communists, found them-
selves in the internment-camp. Mr.
A. M. Blain, a wounded prisoner-of-war,
protested that a secretary of Dr. Evatt
had written to him advocating'the estab-
lishment of a Communist system in Aus-
tralia and soon found himself charged,
baselessly, in Parliament, with having mis-
used his gold pass to secure favors from
his Japanese captors —with such success,
it appeared, that he returned home weigh-
ing six-and-a-half stone and a mass of
physical disabilities from beatings. The
campaign of calumny against him, in
which the main issue was forgotten, was
carried to such a point that the Liberal
Opposition was compelled to issue a
statement testifying to his sanity, which
was being impugned in the “Labor”
party.
The Commonwealth Government, set-
ting out to deal with Communism at a
time when it had the whole industrial
system tight in the grip of men who openly
took their orders from Moscow, found
itself vituperatively opposed by large
sections of the Press and the kind of
public that falls victims to Communist
wiles; and the “Labor” party was dis-
covered as the champion of Communist
freedom of action and carrying on a cam-
paign of which the implication seemed
to. be that Mr. Menzies and followers
were the traitors and that the Communist
party was an honest and patriotic martyr
institution, the champion of freedom,
the victim of a Fascist, almost treason-
able, attempt to suppress its operations.
It is, in fact, a matter of record here,
as in the United States, that no man has
ever attacked Communism seriously with-
out risking the ruin of his reputation and
life at the hands of the hysteric mass of
public opinion whipped into indignation
against “witch-hunters” and “Red-baiters”
by the very Press which is supposed to
support patriotism and moderate opinion.
The same Press and public opinion
made a major issue of the internment of
two Communist officials caught red-
handed organising sabotage of the war-
effort and preparing for revolution in a
secret hideout just before Japan attacked
the West. Yet it turned a lacklustre eye
on the shocking treatment of the Aus-
tralia First men, who obviously did not
possess the organised and extensive
poison-propaganda network with which
the Communist party appears to be able
to go into action against people who
show grit in exposing them.
Those inclined to accept at face-value
the cabled estimates of Senator
McCarthy’s extremism might pause and
remember that not long after the war
the official organ of the Australian Labor
party, the “Standard,” edited by a present
member of “Labor’s” “shadow Cabinet”
in the Federal Parliament, Mr. Haylen,
was praising to the skies and recommend-
ing as a “book on our bad boys packed
with dynamite” a pamphlet called
“Guilty Men” in which a central com-
mitteeman of the Communist party (Len
Fox) alleged that Mr. Menzies and his
party were engaged in a conspiracy to
“bring Hitler here.”
Labor and Arbitration
“D.J.K.”; Where does Labor stand on
arbitration? It is odd that most Aus-
tralian voters believe Labor is committed
to maintaining the arbitration system, yet
one can search the platform and policy
of Federal Labor in vain for any evidence
of that. Indeed the word “arbitration”
is used only twice in the Labor platform
—once in reference to an aim to amend
the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to
provide for certain groups of employees
not already covered by the Act, and again
in referring to an amendment to the Act
to give union officials the right of entry
into industrial establishments.
The conspicuous section of Labor’s
platform as it applies to arbitration is
the one providing for the “legislative
enactment of hours and wage-standards
on the Commonwealth possessing full
powers on industrial matters.” The
ambiguity of this section challenges the
imagination as to its meaning. The
“Commonwealth” what? The Common-
wealth Parliament or the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court? The answer is not
hard to find.
In 1947 Dr. Evatt introduced an
amendment to the Conciliation and Arbi-
tration Act providing for the appointment
of conciliation commissioners to “stream-
line” the working of the arbitration sys-
tem. The only streamlining effect the
amendment had was to give impetus to
industrial dislocations and strikes. From
January to September, 1947, before the
conciliation commissioners were
appointed, 1,041,617 working days were
lost because of industrial disturbances.
From October, 1947, to June, 1948,
1,458,288 working days were lost for the
same reasons—a 40 per cent, increase.
When the Federal Parliament debated
Dr. Evatt’s amendment, Mr. Menzies
summed-up the meaning and force of it:
“In actual substance this measure is
primarily designed to destroy the juris-
diction of the Arbitration Court and sub-
stitute for it a system of industrial con-
trol by persons possessing unstated quali-
fications, and enjoying almost unfettered
discretion.” E. J. Ward, with appropriate
frankness, in the same debate backed-up
Mr. Menzies’s opinion. He said: “There
are certain matters upon which, in my
opinion, this Parliament should adjudi-
cate ; for example, a standard working-
week, and the basis upon which the basic
wage shall be determined.”
Make no mistake, Mr. Ward was not
merely voicing his own opinion in saying
that Parliament and not the Arbitration
Court should determine what hours
should be worked and what wages should
be paid; he was voicing the real policy
of Labor on arbitration. If Labor ever
gets the opportunity of implementing its
Socialist objective to the full, the Arbitra-
tion Court, along with all other inde-
pendent judicial institutions, will certainly
be discarded. To assert otherwise is to
reject the entire ethos of Socialism, as
Socialism postulates one form of State
control, which in a Socialist Australia
would be a Supreme Economic Council.
Air Tragedy
The accident at Singapore to the
B.O.A.C. aircraft bearing 31 passengers
on the way from Australia to India and
Europe will add to the nervousness
which many people have begun to feel
about long-distance air-travel. It is the
third within the last few weeks, and it is
an element of such tragedies that the
passengers who die in them usually
include a proportion of men of great
ability and enterprise who can hardly be
spared—men like Chester Wilmot, Dr.
Rutledge, Professor Chaikin (Professor
of Physics and Dean of the Faculty of
Science at Canterbury University Col-
lege, N.Z.), and Professor McGechan
(Dean of the Law Faculty at Victoria
University, Wellington, N.Z.).
According to the frank statement of
the B.O.A.C.: —
Reports received from London indicate
that the aircraft undershot the runway
when landing, with the result that it over-
turned, catching fire immediately. There
were no survivors among the 31 passen-
gers. Of the nine crew, two have lost their
lives.
The basic cause cannot be determined
until the minute inquiry which will take
place has been held. And this surely
will be a case in which it will be deter-
mined, from the unprecedented feature
of the mishap that the whole of the
operating crew —one steward was killed
and the hostess died in hospital—escaped
with their lives by a miracle, to attempt
immediately, with great courage, the
rescue of the passengers from the burn-
ing aircraft.
Whatever the result of the investi-
gation the accident serves to highlight
the general safety of flying rather than
its dangers. The air is full every day-
right round the globe, across oceans,
deserts, frozen wastes, tropical forests—
of aircraft carrying large numbers of
passengers in .comfort and safety. In
internal services operating in all
weathers every day and night, accident
is rarely heard of. In defence-service
flying, except in its experimental and
training phases, tragedy is rare. Those
who use the inter-State passenger ser-
vices in Australia regularly trust them-
selves to the air with as much confidence
and more reason for it than they do to
a normal Sydney bus.
The betting against any individual
passenger meeting with an accident on
any given trip across the ocean is at so
long odds that it is scarcely worth the
wager. It is expressed in terms of insur-
ance in a premium which amounts
roughly to a bet of 2000 to one against
accident on Australian flights and 400 to
one against a world flight. Insurance cos.
are cautious wagerers.
Of course, there must be accidents.
Failure of human judgment due to
health or other imponderable reasons,
failure of materials due to the inescap-
able unknown quantity in structure or
materials, abnormal weather and navi-
gational hazards, are all inevitable in
some quantity. To anybody who has
(Continued on next page)
"Three Years with Menzies“
In its next issue THE BULLETIN
begins publication of “Three Years with
Menzies,” an outstanding series of
personal-record articles by Stewart
Cockbum, Press-secretary to Mr.
Menzies during three of the most diffi-
cult years of his Prime Ministership.
Backgrounded by the Canberra
political scene, with official trips
abroad, election campaigning and very
human glimpses of Mr. Menzies, both at
work and off his guard away from the
platform or behind the scenes, the
articles, in biographical details, descrip-
tive touches, and especially in strikingly
acute character-analyses, will be found
to add a great deal to what Australians
in general know of the man who is
their Prime Minister. »
R. G. Menzies has long been a con-
troversial figure in Australian politics.
Never seeking cheap popularity himself,
he has been the victim of an immense
amount of political propaganda and
“knocking,”, much of it Communist-
inspired. Stewart Cockbum gives an
inside, factual story of the man as he
has found him to be.


braved the air of, say, Korea in winter
or southern Australia, when the high
cumulus are producing updraughts, or
faced the prospect of coming down at
Mascot during a Sydney wet week, must
marvel at the high average skill,
efficiency and reliability of the services
which provide air transport, internal and
external, for hundreds of thousands of
Australians every year with rarely a
minor mishap, much less an accident
involving loss of life.
POLITICAL POINTS
Mr. Cahill at Leichhardt:
Not one word could be said against one
of my Ministers in the past 13 years.
Which one?,
• •
Sydney’s Lord Mayor Hills and his
Deputy Town Clerk have been over in
South Australia “to study community
hotels,” as a preliminary to the plan to
make the Hotel Sydney into one. They
planned to visit Renmark and four other
country towns where that sort of pubbery
exists, also to visit Adelaide. There is
no community hotel in Adelaide, and few
people outside the “Labor” caucus of
the City Council can see why Sydney
needs one. So far the only argument
advanced by the Lord Mayor is that “the
municipal library could be moved there.”
• •
Cain’s hidebound conservatism,
“Labor”-brand, in the matter of honors
is responsible for the anomaly that, while
the Army officer seconded for Royal-tour
duty as State Marshal in New South
Wales was honored with an M.V.0., his
colleague seconded for the same post in
Victoria missed out.
• •
Several “Labor” members of the Vic-
torian Parliament are known to have
thought that the Queen’s visit was an
occasion for relaxing the party’s objec-
tion to honors, but one who claimed that
he was “right behind” the Premier was
Coates of Dandenong, who said
arrogantly;
There can be no exceptions, even if the
Queen herself takes the initiative in offer-
ing awards and honors,
The electors of Dandenong will doubtless
remember this next time they have the
initiative.
• •
That’s the drill, Spooner!
• •
New York cables announce that the
“National Smile Committee” has elected
President Eisenhower as the owner of
America’s No. 1 smile. Sydney reports
say that Cahill is going through his col-
lection of Royal-tour photographs pre-
paratory to issuing a challenge for the
international title.
• •
“Labor” will be contesting all but five
N. S. Wales seats at the Federal election ;
walkovers are conceded in Bradfield,
Lyne, Mackellar, Richmond and Went-
worth. Plans of the Government parties
haven’t been announced yet, but it seems
likely that there will be a candidate for
every seat.
• •
Two more rejects are included in
“Labor’s” N. S. Wales team for May 29.
One is Nelson Lemmon, former
Minister for Works and Housing, who
lost the Forrest (W-A.) seat in 1949 and
unsuccessfully tried to unseat Bruce
Graham in St. George (N.S.W.) in 1951.
He’s having another stab at it this time.
J. P. Breen, whom Calare cast out into
the wilderness in 1946, when “Labor”
Ministers Forde and Frost were also
beaten, is having another try at his old
seat. John Howse polled 5000 more votes
than the “Labor” candidate in 1951 and
there was also an Independent, who
picked up a couple of thousand.
• •
O. A. Piggott, secretary of the N. S.
Wales Temperance Alliance, talking of
the Maxwell report:
If the report had been written by a
brewery man, he could not have done
better.
Another example of intemperate language
by a man who claims to be temperate.
• •
There’s an alphabetical argument going
on in Adelaide over the order in which
names should appear on the Boothby
ballot-paper for the Federal election. The
candidates are sitting member J. McLeay
(Liberal) and R. Mathews (Labor).
Mathews claims first place, but elec-
toral procedure, phone-book and postal-
directory practice are all on the side of
McLeay. To quote the telephone-direc-
tory; “Names beginning with the letters
‘M-A-C’ or the prefixes ‘M,’ ‘Mac’ and
‘Me’ are all treated as though spelt
‘Mac.’
At the same time the argument draws
attention once again to the unfair ad-
vantage accruing to the candidate whose
name is placed first on the paper through
the accidental votes of straight-down-the-
card electors. It was this confidence in
the value of first place that put “Labor’s”
celebrated four A’s into the Senate, and
in Tasmania a candidate once changed
his name by deed-poll in order to get first
place. One way out of it would be to
split the printing of ballot-papers and
give each candidate pride of place on
half (or a third where there are three can-
didates, and so on). “Accidentals”
would then cancel each other out. It
would mean that voters would have to
use a little more intelligence, but that’s
no great hardship.
• •
Eire is to hold a general election on
May 18. The present Government, led
by De Valera, has been in office since
1951. His Fianna Fail party is the
strongest in the Dail Eireann, with 69
members, but not strong enough to out-
number the former coalition of Fine
STRONG-ARM METHODS
“A full course of my treatment and you won’t be able to recognise
yourself.”
Gael, Labor and two smaller parties. It
has been kept in power by the votes of
a majority of the nine Independents.
• •
Air-passenger traffic in and out of
Canberra when Parliament is sitting gives
the two airlines plenty of headaches, with
most of the 183 members and all of their
staffs seeking seats at the one time, but
a record is anticipated for Thursday,
April 15. Parliament shuts down for the
election and it’s also Easter Eve, so that
holidaymakers everywhere will be seek-
ing augmented travel facilities. It’s just
as well the airlines weren’t nationalised —
politicians would have been the only ones
to get anywhere for Easter.
• •
Tomorrow the Governor-General will
open the new Shell oil-refinery at Geelong.
When in full production the plant will
be capable of meeting nearly one-third of
Australia’s present petrol needs. Mel-
bourne’s requirements will be supplied
by a pipeline with a capacity of 225
million gallons a year.
• •
How the gambling “industry” flourishes
under “Labor.” Cain having persuaded
Tatt.’s to migrate from Hobart to Mel-
bourne, his Health Minister Barry is now
advocating Government control of
“housie.” From that it will be only a
short step to Government two-up schools.
• •
“Strange” and “indiscreet” were words
used by Melbourne Collector of Customs
Brophy to describe a letter sent to him
by Senator Hendrickson in connection
with an inquiry into breaches of the
Customs Act. The wife of a person
charged with having imported prohibited
articles and with making a false entry
had written to the Senator asking him to
assist in having the case dealt with favor-
ably by Mr. Brophy, and a letter signed
on behalf of the Senator asked the collec-
tor to “expedite a favorable hearing.”
When the Melbourne “Herald” asked
Senator Hendrickson about the letter he
said: “I suppose I wrote the letter. My
girl might have sent it.... 1 get dozens
of these letters. They mean nothing to
me.”
They should mean something to him.
Before entering Parliament he was
private secretary to Senator Keane, the
then Minister for Tfade and Customs.
• •
Insurance companies in Adelaide have
been deluged with claims for earthquake
damage—some of it serious, but most of
it for minor cracks in walls and ceilings.
If they settle the lot Adelaide homes
should be in better repair than at any
time in history,
e •
Some curtailment in the enrolment of
diplomatic cadets, the gradual change in
their qualifications at entry and the re-
cent critical report of the Public Accounts
Committee have all influenced the deci-
sion of the External Affairs Department
to revise the two-years course. Cadets
will still be required to do a substantial
amount of study at the University Col-
lege, and will still need to have
language and other qualifications, includ-
ing a fair grounding in history and eco-
nomics, before they are turned loose as
Third Secretaries. The problem of what
a good diplomat should know (academi-
cally speaking) has been exercising the
department’s brighter boys for several
years, and no one is sure that the solu-
tion has been found yet. Some unpublish-
able suggestions have come from other
departments.
• •
Melbourne “Age” headline: “Black-
smiths Leaving Railways.” Must be tired
of shoeing the Iron Horse.
• •
“Mugga Way”: That portrait-slashing
in King’s Hall wasn’t the first time some-
thing of the sort has happened to
Menzies. Imßallarat some years ago my
companion said he wanted to show me
something in the Botanic Gardens, and
then led me to a pathway flanked by the
busts of Australian Prime Ministers. The
busts were an undistinguished lot; the
half-dozen of whom I had personal know-
ledge were almost unrecognisable, and
from a short distance away the two rows
resembled a lot of sweat-boxes, with small
heads protruding, the whole effect being
rather ludicrous. But the crowning
enjoyment came when we reached the
bust of R. G. Menzies at the end. (He
was out of office at the time, and busts of
his successors had not been erected).
Some political or artistic critic had
recently pelted it with mud, and the
result was so fantastic that we both rolled
with laughter. My companion? R. G.
Menzies.
• •
Neguib is on top again. At least, he
was when this went to the printer.
• •
The only surprising thing about
Moscow “Izvestia’s” claim that a Russian
was the inventor of the first steam-
engine—21 years before James Watt —
is that it had been omitted from previous
lists of Russian “firsts,” although these
included the aeroplane, motor-car,
phonograph, moving-pictures, wireless
and most other modern amenities. The
paper’s explanation of why the invention
was not announced at the time, 1763, is
that the inventor lived “in a small town
on the River Ob, somewhere near the
border of Siberia and Outer Mongolia.”
The assumption is that it has taken all
that time for the news to reach Moscow.
• •
For the information of plain and
fancy breadwinners, fancy bread, which
under a Sydney magistrate’s decision last
year was not bread within the meaning
of the Bread Industry Act, 1946, is now,
by a decision of the Full Bench of the
N. S. Wales Industrial Commission,
bread. In other words, it mustn’t be
baked after 6 p.m.
• ■ •
R. G, Casey’s flying-saucer theory—
that they may be associated with meteor-
streams —has evoked little response from
either scientists or “saucer” fans, but it
at least shows that the Minister places the
widest possible interpretation upon his
portfolio of External Affairs.
• •
Two top-line comrades of the Aus-
tralian Communist sarty have been
“purged.” They are J. D. Blake, former
secretary of the Victorian branch, and
J. Henry, a member of the Central Com-
mittee. Blake’s sin is that “he made sec-
tarian mistakes,” and his work “was
marked by individualist tendencies which
hindered the collective work of the
leadership.” Henry “made anarcho-
syndicalist mistakes” and “overestimated
the militancy of the workers.” In accord-
ance with Communist tradition Blake has
made a long and abject confession of guilt
and a promise to be a good little Red
in future. His statement was published
in last week’s “Tribune.” Henry’s con-
fession is, presumably, still in course of
preparation; it is promised for a later
issue.
•' •
4.
Leichhardt (N.S.W.) by-election isn’t
to be a walkover after all. In addition
to the official “Labor” candidate, R. F.
Cody, there are three Independents in the
field: J. H. Blackmore, W. B. Doherty
and T. W. McCristal. Polling-day is
March 20.
• •
“Spokeshave”: A New Australian cook
working in a Melbourne cafe found a
piece of ginger sprouting and suggested
to the market gardener who supplied the
veges that he ought to plant it. “It doesn’t
grow here,” said the vegetable farmer.
“Are you sure?” asked the N.A. “Well,
there’s no Ginger Board, is there?” said
the grower.
• •
According to Raymond Garibu, head
chief of Nauru, his people are looking
ahead to the time when the island’s phos-
phate deposits—their sole source of in-
come —are exhausted. The estimated life
of the phosphate-industry is another 30
years, and they feel that in that time
they will have to acquire another island
—one of greater fertility than Naum—
and prepare themselves for its cultiva-
tion. There’s a possibility that some-
thing may be done for them in the New
Guinea area.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
T3URLEY GRIFFIN could not have
foreseen the cussedness of Australian
public servants when he designed Can-
berra —right across the official circuits
and curves of the master-plan are in-
numerable well-marked short-cuts!
They are quite ordinary tracks, instinc-
tively cutting across the most aesthetic
angles, and joining “A” and “B” by
something nearer a straight line. They
are everywhere—outside, that is. So far,
nobody has reported one inside —in a
Government department.—“N.N.”
❖ ❖ *
“C.Q.”: The Royal tour of Gippsland
put a fleeting beam of spotlight on Vic-
toria’s smallest railway-station—Loy
Yang, near Traralgon. It has no staff:
intending passengers wave a red flag in
the daytime to stop the train, and at
“Now see if you can talk the leg off this one, duck.”
night wave a light. Only an average of
one passenger a year has done either.
“Horncastle”: The last time Royalty
visited Toowoomba (Q.) —the Duke and
Duchess of York, in 1927 —responsibility
of ensuring enjoyment of their stay fell
to one of the Downs-city’s most memor-
able mayors, the late J, D. Annand. At
a dinner given in their honor, the quail
“No more strap-hanging for me.”
from which the Duchess was cutting a
mouthful skidded off her plate on to the
tablecloth. Embarrassed, she said, in an
effort to make light of the incident, “Tch!
Such manners!” J.D. helped her over
what could have been a very awkward
stile. “Yes, your Highness,” he said,
“and in front of the Mayor of Too-
woomba, too! ”
•' * • • • «
“Nakh”: There is all-round praise for
the organisation of the latest Royal tour
in Melbourne —but it wasn’t so good in
1867. The Duke of Edinburgh of those
times had been billed to put in- an appear-
ance at a free banquet at the Zoological
Gardens. Ten-thousand of the poorer
citizens were invited to eat the victuals;
three vignerons had donated 600 gallons
of wine, and a Collingwood brewer a pro-
portionately enormous quantity of beer.
Unfortunately for the organisers the
entire democracy of Melbourne decided
to make it a monster picnic, and more
than 100,000 turned-up, hot and dusty,
only to discover that the banquet had
been postponed as the Duke hadn’t
arrived. By half-past two the crowd got
sick of looking, and rushed the tables.
The duck and the chicken and the ham
vanished as if by magic ; the barrels were
broken open and the contents dipped out
into hats or cupped hands; spigots were
torn out of the wine-vats, and what didn’t
run into the gutters was poured down a
thousand gullets. An assault was then
made on the carving tent, which col-
lapsed about the ears of the committee.
At this point the Duke arrived unnoticed
on the outskirts of the crowd, took one
horrified look at the bacchanalia and fled
home.
“20746”; “Balwyn” (B. 3/3/’54) forgot
to name one use to which Melbourne’s
Exhibition Building, scene of the Royal
Ball, was put —its occupancy by the
R.A.A.F, in. War 11. It was opened as
No. 1 School of Technical Training about
April, 1941, and the R.A.A.F.’s stay in
the rambling old barn was quite unevent-
ful—except for the one and only Air
Force “mutiny” I ever heard of. It was
decreed that on Wednesdays and Fridays,
our only mid-week nights free, everyone
was to be in by 10.30 p.m. instead of
11.30 —no more pictures, for one thing.
On the first night of the proposed earlier-
closing, the trainee-types, as prearranged,
returned around 11.25—t0 barred portals,
armed patrols and a general concentra-
tion-camp atmosphere. But it blew over
—sole punishment, a long parade-lecture
next day from the C.O. Leave restored
till 2330 hours.
“Macnell”; One of the most impres-
sive aspects of the Royal visit is, to me,
photographs of the Queen investing her
knights. Not so much the traditional
chivalry of the occasion, but the sight of
soldiers and sailors, grizzled veterans who
have fought with and commanded legions
of tough men against tough foes in several
wars, kneeing before the figure of a
comparative slip of a girl in humble and
complete homage. Surely nothing could
more effectively indicate to servicemen
the loyalty due to their Sovereign than
the sight of, for instance, Lieutenant-
General Sir Horace Robertson, on his
knees, tapped on the shoulder with his
own sword by a Queen whose physical
strength to command is negligible !
“C. 8.”: Albert Namatjira was taken
round to see some modern paintings at
Melbourne exhibitions, but, strange to
say, could see nothing in them. After
looking at a few curls and wiggles, he
said “I don’t know what they mean. We
haven’t got anything like this in the
Centre.” “Ah, that’s just it,” said a
white artist. “We haven’t got anything
like this in Melbourne,
either except in
pictures.”
$ «&
“P awang”; Mel-
bourne now has a
slasher as well as a
sprayer, two women
having had 6in. cuts
slashed in the backs of
their dresses while look-
ing at Royal-tour de-
corations. But why
wouldn’t the slasher be
the sprayer? Most
every human being likes
to make a hit; he can
make it, in a way
society approves of, by
writing a book or paint-
ing a picture; or in
anti-social ways like
bashing a policeman or
spraying the skirts of
some totally inoffensive
person. Melbourne’s
sprayer has been
monotonously deliver-
ing a black liquid on
women’s dresses for a
couple of years, past,
without being identified.
H r ® done the same thing so
often that he hardly gets a mentim ta
the papers, so the results of his oneta-
tions must be disappointing. The most
likely thing in the world is that he would
want to change his methods. If he has
hes now got the publicity he would
crave.
♦♦♦ ❖ *
“Eurimburra”; First owner of Fir-
holme, built by John Macarthur at Parra-
matta (B. 3/3/ 54), was Gabriel Marie
Lours Huon de Kerrileau, not “de Ker-
nlion,” though the latter name probably
appears on the deed. The same error
occurs on the grant old Monsieur Louis
received at Bungonia. It was here he met
his end, lost in the wild Shoalhaven gul-
lies, The last trace of him was a tree he’d
marked “Gone north.” Years later a
member of a prospecting party detached
from his mates found a skeleton at the
base of a tree ; but, on rejoining the party,
he could not re-locate the tree, Louis’s
son, Paul Huon—he dropped the rest of it
—founded large estates at Albury-
Wodonga.
“Harrovian”: That Red Page review of
Sir Travers Humphreys’s latest Book of
Trials (B. 3/ 3 / ’54) reminded me of two
interesting points, now generally for-
gotten, in the trial of Dr. Crippen. It
was Marie Lloyd, the great music-hall
artiste, who really put the police on the
track of the murderer. Belle Elmore
(Mrs. Crippen) had been honorary sec-
retary of a stage society, and was a
friend of hers. Marie, who had given
Belle a particularly beautiful brooch, met
Ethel le Neve, Crippen’s mistress, wearing
it, just after Belle Elmore had dis-
appeared. She immediately found out
the identity of the girl and notified Scot-
land Yard. After the trial one problem
was cleared up—what had happened to
the greater part of Belle Elmore’s remains,
which had never been traced. A lion-
keeper at the London Zoo knew Dr.
Crippen well —he was an enthusiastic
student of the feline tribe and went
regularly to the zoo for years. And he
fed them every Saturday.
*l* * $
“E.H.M.”: Lolita Lebron, the Puerto
Rican fanatic who let loose in the U.S.
Congress, is a rara avis —her sex doesn t
often go in for attempted political assas-
sination. It’s close on 50 years since
Maria Spiridonova, 20-year-old member
of the Russian Social Revolutionary
party, assassinated Lujinovsky, council or
of the Administration of Tamboft. bne
failed in an attempt on her own me, an
after release from prison became lea e
of the party opposing the Bolshevik sig
ing of the treaty of Brest-Litovsk.
BERT’S PRAYER
“Dr. Evatt has intervened in the discussion of
the N. S. Wales Liquor Commission report
with an earnest prayer that nothing be done
about it.”
Lord of Numbers, hear me pray !
Help me on Election Day !
Keep the men of New South Wales
Safe from evening beers and ales;
Let the population be
Pure and virtuous like me,
Never drunk at any hour.
Never drunk, except with power.
For the good of all their souls
People need, they need, controls ;
Shut controls down like a vice —
Goods may soon not have a price;
Transport, housing, hospitals.
May turn into free-for-alls —
All he free to queues and quotas.
All be free, except the voters.
Not that I would have this done
To control just everyone:
I’m a brilliant legal cove —•
T wisting laws is what I love;
Love to see their trend extended
Opposite to that intended.
And control all, to contrive
To control my Brother Clive.
Clive puts lipstick on girls’ faces.
Writes his name in public places;
Even Echo answers “Hooey !”
When poor Clive cries “Cooee ! Cooee !’’
Yet his Premier won’t drop him —
No one does a thing to stop him !
Some say that, and some say this.
Beside himself, some say he is;
Thus the obvious thing to do
Is put my brother in a queue :
Even Clive would have to smile
To see himself in single file —
So Lofd of Numbers, hear me pray !
Help me on Election Day,
And grind the Liberals in the dirt!
Your subtle supplicator,
Bert.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
NEW “DELANEY” SERIAL
Maybe St. Pat’s is as good a day as any
for announcing a new serial with a name
like “Have Patience, Delaney.” It is, of
course, a new one by Bant Singer, whose
first essay in the genre, “You’re Wrong,
Delaney,” was serialised last year in “The
Bulletin” and has meanwhile proved itself
a best-seller in the crime-and-detection
field in Britain and the U.S. “Have
Patience, Delaney” is rated by its Lon-
don publishers (Collins) as even better
than its forerunner, and those who have
read it for “Bulletin”-serial publication
agree with the finding. From the first
scene in a plane flying from Sydney to a
big western N. S. Wales town it is fast-
action reading, with a mystery atmos-
phere, tense suspense and a wide variety
of instantly-convincing and finely-created
characters. The first instalment will be
in the April 14 “Bulletin.”


T SAW them with my own two eyes—
a group of Americans emptying into
the sea the contents of every chest in the
sizeable cargo of tea stacked on the pier.
Not the Boston tea-party ; the scene took
place at Milne Bay, 170 years later. It,
too, was a protest—not at tax levied on
tea but at the fact that the Yanks were
issued at all with the “goldumed hog-
wash.” According to the Allied supply-
plan, all forces, American included, were
rationed by the Australian Army, whose
ration-menu carried only a small propor-
tion of coffee and, as judged by Yankee
standards, a preponderance of tea. The
Digger spectators of the Milne Bay
dumping were fervently enjoined, “Tell
your Big Boys what we think of the
muck!” Apparently the protest was as
successful as the Boston prototype; a
few weeks later the Australian supply-
units were ordered to issue U.S. forces
with a special coffee ration. —“Methuse-
lah Minor.”
* ❖
“K.G.”: If Federico was a tenor, even a
noted Italian one, and sang Mephistofeles
in “Faust,” as related by “Cauboy” (B.
24/2/’54), it is no wonder he expired on
the last note. It would be enough to kill
anyone.
“Mark O’Polo”: The pastime of toss-
ing a coin in the air to decide its owner-
ship (B. 17/2/’54) is probably only a
few hours younger than coinage itself.
At some remote date the discovery was
made that it was not essential to sky the
actual coin in question —the decision
could be made through some other coin
not necessarily of equal value, and,
furthermore, any number could be won
or lost by the tossing of one. In this
form the ancient single-coin game
drifted down through the Centuries into
Australia, where the second coin was
introduced. There were several reasons
for this remarkable development; among
them, it was four times as hard to
manipulate two double-headers as one,
and it was twice as hard to “butterfly”
two coins as one. No man properly
brought-up on two coins would ever
willingly play with three; only a savage
would play with pne.
“Lao-dah”: When the
Communists took over the
Flowery Kingdom they in-
herited a nest-egg which the
Government of no other
country ever enjoyed in his-
tory. It amounted in some
years to as much as
£580,000,000, coming in re-
mittances to the old folk, or
investments for return to ,the
beloved homeland in old age,
from the 11,000,000 Chinese
who live outside China. My
rickshawman in Penang was
an example. He had been
running for 20 years, and
every four years visited his
native village outside Can-
ton, where he had a wife
and growing number of
children, and every cent
saved he remitted home.
Most old Chinese in Aus-
tralia dream of being
buried in their native-soil; that means
money sent home for coffin and funeral.
In the last two or three years remittances
have fallen to less than a million, owing
to the Communist Government having
pinched all they can lay hands on or
slamming such severe taxation on it
that it isn’t worth sending. So now the
mutts have lost it.
“Tukang Kebun”: The Duke of Edin-
burgh evidently understands Digger
usage of the word “mob” (8., 17/2/’54).
I remember when it caused a certain
misunderstanding. It was a dark night
just after Singapore had fallen. A column
of dispirited Diggers was marching
towards the main road to Changi. As
the head of the column neared the inter-
section, we heard another marching
column in the dark. We halted, and the
leading company’s commander called,
“What mob is that?” The reply was stiff
with hauteur: “This is not a mob. This
is a battalion of the Royal Fusiliers.”
The position was summed-up by Shorty:
“Well, you’re all b prisoners now,
anyway.”
* *
“Tasmaniac”; Our school typist, walk-
ing past a classroom, heard loud whis-
pers from obviously unsupervised
scholars: “Hey, boys—a dame!” “Quick,
give us a look! ” “Whacko! ” Instead of
pretending to be blind and deaf, she
fumed and beamed at them, saying
sweetly, “Hallo, boys.” They fell over
each other getting back into the room.,
Reminded me of the reporters who went
to interview a dancer. They waited in
her sitting-room ; a door from this led to
her bedroom. When the door opened
they were surprised to see her dressed in
a fur-coat, with legs and feet bare. She
greeted them and casually took off her
coat. It would have been interesting,
“It’s not the money—you're just not the type for this exclusive model .”
beforehand, to have heard the boasts
as to what they would do in such circum-
stances. What they did do, every man
jack of them, was fall over each other
getting out of the room.
* * ❖
“Smithy”: A park in the heart of
Hobart was a maternity hospital the
other day for one of th 6 many felines
that roam its lawns. The miracle of life
as far as kittens go usually leaves staid
Hobartians coldly indifferent, but on this
occasion I saw with delight that some-
one had found an old piece of blanket
for Maria and family, and that milk and
water were provided in abundance in a
whole variety of containers. There’s
still hope for humans.
♦J* ♦>
“Melbn”: After having been kindled by
the sun’s rays at Olympia, the classic
site of the ancient Greek games, the
“C.A.L.”: Every time I see the new
Australian pound-notes —-so sadly lack-
ing jn chlorophyll I’m reminded of
similar anaemic “money” circulated by
Diggers in Cairo in the early part of
War II; I wonder whether it has finally
passed out of circulation? Currency of
the ghme called Monopoly, it was paid
to Indian small-merchants for tea. For
a while everything went fine, till the
Olympic Flame will start its
longest journey ever —half-
way round the world from
Greece to Melbourne. It
will be airborne from
Athens to Darwin, thence
to Cairns, where it will go
on relay. About 2500 run-
ners will pass it from one
to another down to Syd-
ney. Then it turns inland
to Canberra, over the bor-
der at Albury into Victoria
and through Benalla, Shep-
parton, Bendigo, Ballarat,
Geelong and along the
Calder Highway to the
main stadium in Melbourne.
For the Berlin Games, 3075
runners carried it 1910
miles, and in 1952 cyclists
and motor-cyclists, as well
as runners, carried it from
Olympia to Helsinki. The
Cairns-Melbourne run will
cover 2550 miles the
longest relay yet run.
♦ ♦
“Macca”: In the bus,
Blabbermouth in front of
us: “Yeah, the missus don’t
like that radiogram they
sent out yesterday. This
morning they’re bringing out another,
with a better grain in the cabinet.”
Cunning laugh. “But how’s this,
eh? Before I left this morning I
pulled all the new valves out and re-
placed ’em with the old-’uns from that
five-valver we’ve had for years. How’s
that, eh?” He was still chuckling when
he left the bus, followed closely by my
companion, hurrying to her office-phone
—she, in the odd way these things hap-
pen, earning her money secretarying an
organisation formed to protect the
interests of radio-retailers!.
Indians, realising they had been duped,
retaliated by getting the used tea-leaves
from cookhouse dixies, drying it, and
selling it back to us complete in packets.
Anyhow, the shrewd Asiatics lost noth-
ing with the pseudo money. They passed
it on to Wogs in payment for goods,
and these made it acceptable as currency
among the rest of the Wogs.,
“Roirp”: “Willpar’s” contentions
about female dimensions and the amaz-
ing demand for bigger and better artific-
ial bosoms (B. 3/3/’54) compel me to
give details of another startling fact. No
fewer than 20,00(#hernia-pads are manu-
factured each year by another rubber
company, and, like the “falsie” manufac-
turers, it has competitors. Perhaps this
also is an aftermath of the war. The
nation obviously still needs support.
“Sunray”: A friend who deals in
rubber goods for both producing and
reducing the- figure informs me that a
lot of riflemen buy “falsies”! They use
’em to rest their elbows in. What we
can’t work out is whether two members
go halves, or what happens to the odd
one!
*> ♦>
Received with blushes:
“Mike”: If striking a chord in the hearts of
a reader is a measure of merit of verse, then
Peter Bladin’s (B. 3/3/’54) is a masterpiece. He
says exactly what I feel —better than I could
ever hope to, A copy should be brought to the
notice of her Majesty. I prophesy that, in
time to come, the verse will be quoted as
representative of popular emotion of our time.
I congratulate Bladen on his verse, as, with
equal heartiness, I thank The Bulletin for pub-
lishing it.
Fvrgive my temerity when I suggest the word
“Apology” be left out of the title. Aus-
tralians haye nothing to apologise for in their
welcome, nor does the verse apologise. Rather,
it reflects something of the Australian’s dignity,
of a “land, lusty, vigorous and young.”
I wish, too, that Blue Ocean was not a
current racehorse. In 50 years, when Bladen’s
verse will still be recited, Blue Ocean will be
forgotten. It’s a pity that reference to a
present-day moke will date verse which should
prove timeless,
“Horncastle”: Having just read Somerset
Maugham’s The Narrow Corner, I find that
The Bulletin is mentioned so often it emerges
almost as a character. It’s described as “a
weekly, with literary tendencies,” of which
Englishman Frith of the story, a gone-to-seed
East Indies planter, “gets a bundle every mail,”
eschewing London papers. The paper is “old”
when it reaches Frith, but Maugham, who
obviously became well acquainted with it in
his wanderings in those parts, implies what
back-numbers displayed in Australia House,
London, in ships’ rea.ding-rooms, in libraries
abroad, in country pubs and city lounges, in
barbers’-saloons and doctors’ waiting-rooms,
tacitly proclaim—that The Bulletin never
grows old.
Those wide-flung copies also manifest the
girth of the paper’s circulation —you’ll find it
from Auckland to the Indies, from Bombay to
Capetown. The paper’s been in the Horn-
castle family for three generations—it’s a tradi-
tion. And when you meet another Bulletin
reader or writer you realise how it can create
kinship.
SHAPELY, BUT...
“It is well recognised by their studios that
some of Hollywood’s highest-paid ‘stars’ couldn’t
hold down even ‘bit ! parts were it not for their
shapeliness. That is why dieting with them is
such a grim business.” — Film magazine.
The star who’s mostly “in the chips”
Sports thirty-four-inch bust and hips
And all else in proportion —
A figure which, as with her pose,
Alas ! only too often goes
With acting that is “on the nose,”
As well as speech-distortion.
Her cerebral equipment’s not
What you would term a “trimmer” ;
A two-way glow alone it’s got :
One dim, the other dimmer ...
This, you would guess, wouldn’t make less
unhappy
The already well - bedevilled director
chappy.
Let her appear in drama grim:
Black her despair; no hopeful glim ; '
Fate worse than death she faces!
The villain, wearing frightful leer.
Inexorably’s drawing near;
Snarls something horrid in her ear —
His passion really base is.
He hurls her down and grabs her throat!
Out of his grasp she wriggles.
Leaps to her feet —and then the goat
Incontinently giggles! ...
Could one claim truly the director wronged
her.
If with some large blunt instrument he
donged her?
In riotous comedy she’s cast;
The fun is scheduled to be fast.
Spontaneous and snappy.
Her role is simple as can be :
To register some jollity.
Mixed with a little roguery —
Well, anyway, look happy.
A Mona Lisa smile she fakes.
He yells, in aggravation:
“Show your teeth more !” She does—
it makes
Her like a mad Alsatian . . .
See what they mean? The shapely ones
and dull, sirs,
Raise in directors quite a crop of ulcers.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Keep in
good
SPIRITS
o*ll and&
aMRSTR £N6TH
'HOSPITAL
b RANDY
PERSONAL ITEMS
N. H. Connolly knows more about
schooners and their lading than the oldest
seaman afloat. Foundation member of
U.L.V.A., he has now been elected presi-
dent for the 26 th time! Born in Tas-
mania, he first interested himself in
theatrical affairs. He sold his first beer
from the Howard, in Hobart,
• •
A field-worker with the reputation of
being one of the best oil-diviners in
America, N. B. Sauve comes back here
in charge of Vacuum Oil’s intensified
search for the stuff in Australia and
Papua. Latterly chief geophysicist for
Standard Vacuum in New York, and in
1948 the company’s oilhound in Sumatra,
before that Sauve was g.-m. of Frome-
Broken Hill Pty. Ltd., in which Vacuum,
Anglo-Iranian and Zinc Corporation are
equal partners in the search for Aus-
tralia’s gas and oil. Earlier still he got
to know the lie of the land, when, as a
colonel of U.S, Intelligence, he made an
extensive recco of northern Australia
before moving on to the Philippines. Wife
ranks colpnel, too —in charge of Uncle
Sam’s W.A.A.C.S in Brisbane during the
war.
• •
'Henry Krips is cutting a crisp caper
in London. On his first appearance as
conductor in the Thames-side town the
other night the huge Royal Festival Hall
was sold out; few concerts in the hall
have achieved this happy fulfilment. On
nine-months study-leave from his nor-
mal post —the rostrum of South Aus-
tralia’s symphony orchestra —Krips is
Viennese-born, conducted in the Salz-
burg Town Theatre and since 1938 has
been building-up a reputation of note in
Australia. He looked after the Kirsova
ballet’s music for a time, conducted for
the A.B.C. six years, wrote the music for
the films “Smithy” and “Sons of
Matthew,” and in 1951 took first prize
in the Jubilee national-song competition.
Towards the end of this month he’ll con-
duct the symphony orchestra of his birth-
place, Vienna.
• •
Captain Bob Grieve’s V.C. ribbon
caught the eye of the Queen when she
visited the huge Repatriation 'Hospital at
Heidelberg. It was the first time the man
who was decorated by George V for most
conspicuous bravery at Messines in 1917
had ever been in hospital—he had gone
to Heidelberg two months previously
with heart-trouble. Now managing-
director of Grieve, Gardiner and Co., he
was a captain in the 37th Battalion when,
under heavy fire, he located two enemy
machine-guns and killed their crews.
• •
Born and schooled in England, Percy
Heath Thomas shipped sealegs early in a
barque, then shifted to steam. Common
enough ; but his next shift was somewhat
off-course —through it he became chief
horticulturist of the Tasmanian Depart-
ment of Agriculture! Setting his roots
in the Apple Isle (he’d seen it first
through the shrouds of his barque), he
went up through Victoria, N.S.W. to
Queensland, studying—mainly deciduous
and tropical fruits —till he qualified as
orchard supervisor with Victoria’s
Department of Agriculture. Then
Wilhelm took a hand, and the orchardist
had a look, per the First A.1.F., at what
foliage there was to view on Gallipoli.
Tassie called him again when that was
all through, and he dug in properly this
time, reorganising the inspectorial ser-
vices of the department, set(ing-up dis-
trict officers in main centres of produc-
tion, standardising apple- and pear-
exports, and establishing three horticul-
tural experimental-stations. He went out
to grass the other day.
• •
A sister of Katherine Mansfield, Mrs.
Charles Renshaw, is producing a Life
of the noted short-story writer, in which
much of her early life will be embodied.
Husband Charles is helping with the
work.
Appointed Air in Washington,
Group-Captain D. R. Chapman (answer-
ing to nothing but “Dixie”) shifts there
from command of the R.A.A.F. in Japan
and Korea. Born at Tenterfield (N.S.W.),
20 years flying, latterly he’s been a staff-
man, but has airborne memories enough.
He commanded 3 Squadron in the
Western Desert, when his Tomahawks
and Kittyhawks preyed on Rommel’s
armor. At war’s end in the Solomons,
boss of 84 wing, co-operating with the
Army in recco-work and spotting for
artillery bombardments, he next became
chief-instructor at the offensive-support
wing at the School of Land-Air Warfare
at Williamtown (N.S.W.).
• •
Met in Perth, Sain Bwa, Charge
d’Affaires in the new Burma Legation at
Canberra. Experienced in London and
Washington, he hopes to encourage trade
between Australia and Burma, and to
arrange for Burmese technicians to be
trained here, especially for mining and
hydroelectric, schemes.
• •
From branch to branch of the same
tree, as it were, goes Eric Slatter —from
general sales-manager of C.S.R. building-
materials division to a similar post with
George Hudson Pty., Ltd., which sizeable
timber and ready-cut-homes firm is a
distributor for C.S.R. With Hudson’s
before he joined C.S.R. in 1938, he’s had
a recent look-see at what the U.K. and
particularly the U.S. are doing with the
increasingly-popular timber home.
• •
There was a passenger as Australian as
a gum-tree aboard Orontes when she
pulled out of Sydney, bound London, last
Saturday— The Bulletin’s “Mat’s Mate,”
otherwise Charles Shaw, alias Bant Singer,
author of the Delaney books. The first
time he has stepped outside Australia —
though he’s stepped quite a bit over it —
Shaw, together with Mrs. Shaw, is having
a look at the Old Dart for some months,
on the way polishing up his third Delaney.
Could be that Delaney might find himself
battling through spots in Port Said, Mar-
seilles and ports likewise, not to mention
BANT
London’s Limehouse all prospective
Delaney territory. Shaw will land in
London with an international reputation
backing him —he having sold his pre-
Delaney book. Heaven Knows, Mr. Alli-
son, to a Hollywood concern for filming,
for a respectable number of dollars. He’ll
wander all over Britain, as he has over
south-east Australia, but it’s a safe bet
that the gums will call sooner or later.
Young for the top-executive sphere of
the Commonwealth Bank, Frederick
Edmund John Butcher, new chief of
exchange-control, joined the bank in
Charters Towers (Q.), where he was
born. He burst into the executive field
in less time than most take to notch
branch-managerships, meanwhile build-
ing a reputation for making calm, swift
decisions which turned out to be the
right ones. From assistant-secretary of
BANK
the bank he became chief security-officer
in Melbourne, where he performed the
operation which established the central-
banking section. In 1948 he was a mem-
ber of the trade mission which went to
Japan. Big, urbane and genial. Butcher,
limned here by Binder, is a family-man
who finds relaxation from high-finance
with the fork and the hoe.
• •
“Pip Tok”: Describing himself as the
last of the old school of professional
African elephant-hunters, J. Taylor, a
tough-looking stalwart with the promi-
nent nose and hefty chin usually worn
by men of action, is on his way to shoot
buffaloes in the Northern Territory. In
Africa he confined himself to dangerous
man-eating lions and rogue elephants,
spending his time on safaris lasting up to
three years, living off the country. Be-
fore he left for Australia his bag had
totalled 1500 elephants, 1200 buffaloes
and 300 man-eating lions.
• •
When Charles Gale, of Sydney, de-
cided last year to cut down a bit on his
business activities, he was chairman of
directors of Mercantile Mutual and
Australian General Insurance; he still
holds a directorship of Consolidated
Trust and its auxiliaries. The other day
he reached one year under the century;
he was admitted as a solicitor not long
after the Germans (under Bismarck)
bombarded Paris.
• «
“F.S.”: Even stranger than the recep-
tion he got at Anthony Hordern’s (B.
3/3/’54) was the reception Albert Namat-
jira got from 60 Melbourne artists,
writers and admirers at a Bourke-street
cafe. Leading lights of art and science
made speeches at him, not one word of
which, except perhaps his own name,
had meaning for him. He kept his rather
sad, dignified expression, his face as
immobile as an ebony statue while
speaker after speaker spoke of his world-
fame, his genius, his devotion to his
people and his art, his significance to
Australian history—only relaxing into a
gentle smile when he heard the name
Namatjira. He didn’t change his expres-
sion even when one rhetorician fer-
vently likened the importance of his
advent to the Royal visit. In fact, all
this lionising seemed to mean absolutely
nothing to him, which is probably just
as well. I have seen dozens of young
Melbourne artists as talented as Namat-
jira destroyed by lionising critics.
Last Saturday saw Dr. Mowll in his
2°th year as Anglican Archbishop of
s y d K n T e y and Metropolitan of the Province
of N.S.W. Long and respected service *
there’s nothing small or niggling about
the man either, and this applies no less
to his character than to his physique—
6ft. 4in., and sideways in proportion A
product of King’s School, Canterbury
(Eng.)—where Somerset Maugham was
educated —and of King’s College Cam-
bridge, he was Bishop of Western China
when the call came from Sydney.
• •
New lecturer in economics at Mel-
bourne University, David Rowan is a
graduate, and lecturer, of Bristol Uni.
For 18 months he’s been in Nigeria,
researching with the West African Institute
of Social and Economic Research.
• •
One of the men who won’t get the
decorations they certainly would have got
if Premier Cain had permitted is William
John Jungwirth, C.M.G., secretary to
Cain’s department, and private-secretary
to various Premiers before him. Even
hardened pressmen, whose offices were
filled with carefully drawn-up plans and
specifications for their assistance and
accommodation, were amazed at the
meticulousness of Jungwirth’s scheming
for every imaginable detail of the Royal
visit. His unseen hand controlled just
about everything. But then Jungwirth is
an old hand at organisation—member of
the Victorian Central Planning Associa-
tion, the State Emergency Council for
Civil Defence, the Patriotic Funds Coun-
cil and a dozen other institutions. Born
in Ballarat, he’s 57.
• •
Gone on in Adelaide, James Jelley was
born in Scotland, though South Aus-
tralia had his services for most of his
life. Cabinet-maker by trade, he entered
the Legislative Council a Laborite in
1912. He stayed there till 1933. Chief-
Secretary in the Gunn Government
(1924-27), he looked after Local Gov-
ernment, Immigration, Repat. and Irri-
gation for Premier Hill. After a row
with his leader he resigned the portfolios
in 1933 and shortly afterwards finished
with politics. Always a racing*enthusiast,
he was appointed chairman of the
Betting Board in 1933, when S.A. brought
the bookies back from their 40 years in
the wilderness. He remained on the
board till last December. Eighty-one at
the end.
• •
Into the Silence:
At 74, in Melbourne, Garnet Leary, noted
medico of Sandringham (Vic.), where he’d
been Medical Officer of Health for years and a
generous donator to charities. Commander ot
the 15 th Field Ambulance on Gallipoli,
lieutenant-colonel, he was widely recognised for
his work on speech-therapy, and published a
sheaf of articles on stammering and other
speech-defects. He was an M.D. of Edinburgh.
In Brisbane, at 79, Joseph Whitehouse, old-
time organ craftsman whose instruments have
been installed in appropriate buildings through-
out Australia. There’s one in the Brisbane
City Hall, and, as from the other day, another
in St. George’s Church of England in Bumie
(Tasmania).
At Waroona (W.A.), at 49, Norman Raywood
Walmsley, farmer and a foundation-member of
the Westralian junior farmers’ movement. One-
time president of the Royal Agricultural Society,
councillor for years, he was also on the W.A.
Transport Board. Middle-East Digger (private
to major), he had been country vice-president
of the R.S.L.
In Christchurch N.Z.), Cecil Fletcher Kelly,
noted landscape-painter, widower of Annie
Kelly, as well-known as a portraitist. Coun-
cillor of the Canterbury‘Society of Arts (vice-
president nine years), he had exhibited at the
Royal Academy, the Royal Scottish Academy
and the Paris Salon, as well as with most art
societies in his own country and Australia, lie
was an examiner in painting for the Umversity
of New Zealand.
In Perth, at 79, William Henry Ralph, who,
over the past 40 years, had erected many
buildings in Perth and country towns, maim-
ing the main block of the Repatriation Genera
Hospital at Westralia’s Hollywood.
In Adelaide, at 63, F. K. Gould, chemist,
and one of South Australia s best-known
sportsmen. An opening bat m inter-state
cricket for several years, later manager ra w
State’s touring teams, he was as closely co -
llected with football, one-time chamnan or
Sturt Football Club and a commissioner ot the
S.A. Football League. As well, he was a
championship winner at bowls.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 67, W. S. ee ,
Doctor of Dentistry and a noted .
administrator of Rugby and bowling. H
three-years service in the Kaiser s war.


One lookup PIVINB. 'THSN on thb SeCONQ nioht op
honeymoon shb ears afp£npioit/s ahp hag -to bB rushep to
HOSPITAL. PO(Z AIN OPERATION ... I RECKON A QlßjJs PARENTS OU&hT
„ V
'TO SB COINP&U-BP TO Qrtve. A GUARANTEE WtTH HBK*
NO WARRANTY


ABORIGINALITIES
A STRIKING characteristic of N.Q.
abos is the extreme clarity and
carrying-power of their voices. They
can converse effortlessly over a distance
of more than 100yds. without the slightest
raising of their voices, I saw a gin
napping quartz while squatted at the
foot of Mt. Carbine, her back to that
300 ft. hill. She was carrying on an
ordinary conversation with a buck at the
very summit; and this through the noise
of dry-blower clackings, shot-firing and
the general din of 100-odd men mining
for wolfram. I’ve seen white men roar-
ing hoarsely to mates at less than a
quarter of that distance with not a word
of sense getting through.—“F.W.”
“ There’s no doubt about these labor-saving gadgets in the home.
Great boon for the man-on-the-land.”
Black rabbits, of course,
are not rare ; * neither are yellows,
Albinoes occur occasionally, so do blue-
greys similar to the hutch-bred chin-
chilla. White splashes on the ordinary
grey are comparatively common, and
once I saw a yellow with black feet. But
I have never se6n a black-and-white
bunny. A truck-driver who collects rab-
bits for a freezing-works says he’d never
seen one. And many trappers I’ve asked
say the same. A man who exports up
to 20,000 rabbits weekly reports, how-
ever, that he has come across them, but
that they were the rarest of any color,
He confirmed, too, the contention often
heard: where colored rabbits abound
the country is good, or at least enjoy-
ing a prolific season. Do colored bunnies
lack the fortitude to exist under tough
“Young man, what have you been up to?”
conditions, or is it simply a matter of
averages—the more rabbits bred the
greater the chance of the one-in-hundreds
freak-color turning up?
* * * *
“Horncastle”: Near Jondaryan on the
Darling Downs (Q.) is a place called
Formartin, named, so it is said, after
four very independent brothers who
owned adjoining properties there in the
long ago. The Martin boys .were so
individually jealous of their property-
rights that they built the house squarely
in the centre of their land, so that each
of the homestead’s four corners stood on
a different holding. The brothers were
thus able to sleep in, and keep to, their
own quarters —both bedroom and pro-
perty.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“G.T.M.”: Blackbirds, A, B, and C,
came to the bird-bath, a small oblong
tray placed alongside a clump of holly-
hocks'. A and B, both hens, were first in,
splashing together; then C, the cock, got
in and chivvied them out. They watched
from opposite ends, while he fluffed and
fluttered vigorously, tossing spray. But
when he sat still, having a quiet soak, they
decided on re-entry. Each
hopped on the rim in turn
while C made passes at
them, rushing from one end
to the other. In between
their pesterings he tried to
get on with his steeping
midway; but the girls were
too persistent. He then
changed tactics. Rushing to
A at the far end, he jumped
out and followed her, both
going clockwise round the
clump. He was nearly half-
way when B, on the other
side, hopped into the bath.
The cock raced back into
the water, tore through it
and came out, chasing B
anti-clockwise. By that
time A had hopped in. And
so it continued. When I
went inside the hens had
the bath, while the cock-
bird was on the grass
struggling for his second
wind.
“Bo”: The tens of thousands of south-
ward-flying migratory birds which leave
England yearly feed by day and make the
mass-flight at night. In clear weather
this is accomplished without difficulty but
where there is fog or a low cloud-ceiling
some navigational confusion arises, and
the sight of a lighthouse-beam attracts
them strongly. At Dungeness lighthouse,
on the coast of Kent, casualties have
been heavy through the birds dashing
themselves against the lantern-glass or
flying blindly into the masonry Now the
Royal Society for the Protection of Birds
has taken a hCnd to supplement a life-
saving device—perches around the light-
house’s galleries—which it put there many
years ago. This is the floodlighting of
the Dungeness tower from the base. The
idea was first tried out at Heligoland,
and it was found that the birds flew
around the illuminated tower, where be-
fore, flying under the beam-level and
apparently not associating it with a struc-
ture below, they had met disaster. Bos-
well mentions an evening he spent in
Dungeness studying the birds’ behavior.
Some, he noted, fluttered up the brick-
work until they reached the lantern-glass.
♦ ♦ * *
“Salmon Gums”: Flight may be part
of a bird’s inherited instinct (B, 17/2/’54),
but most fledglings have to be coaxed to
take the air for the first time. The parent
birds first cajole or browbeat their off-
spring into leaving the nest and perch-
ing on a branch; then they themselves
take-off and perform aerobatics obvi-
ously designed to tempt the youngsters to
emulation. In the same way a bird’s
native call may be part of its inherited
instinct, but quite a number have to be
taught it, and some learn only after
long schooling. With kookaburras the
teaching starts as soon as the young
can fly. Two or three perch together
on a low branch and an adult bird takes
up a position a few yards in front. Tie
rest of the flock gather around, looking
highly critical. The tutor runs through
a few bars of his cacophony, and then
sounds the first note, repeating it several
times and waiting each time for an
answer. If he doesn’t get one, or if the
ones he gets are off-note, he waits until
the kids get hungry and yell for tucker.
Then he sounds it again, and the kids
strain their vocal-chords. They know
they won’t be fed till they get it right.
These sessions start well before sun-up
and continue at frequent intervals all
day for about six weeks.
* ♦ * *
“Jackstay”: Seems fairly obvious that
quite a lot of seabirds (B. 3/ 3 / ’54) must
drink seawater, because a lot of them
rarely get a chance to drink anything
else. The muttonbird, for instance,
spends its waking hours well offshore
fishing, and nests —around Port Stephens
(N.S.W.), at any rate—on craggy islets
where there’s no permanent freshwater.
The same bird migrates vast distances,
where there’s nothing to sustain it but
the sea. Gannets, mollyhawks and alba-
trosses also live their lives far out at
sea, where, if they drink at all, there s no
other tipple but that which so tanta-
lised the Ancient Mariner. My own idea
is that the water-content of the fish on
which they feed slakes their thirst but
that seems to lead on to speculation as
to how the fish manages to fill his tissues
with salt-free fluid. Maybe in his internal
economy lies the answer to “B.A.K. s
idea.
THE MIRACLE OF MULLION HILL
The cock had made his winter perch
The rooftree of the iron church
And, straining heavenward on his toes,
Turns scarlet, mops his wings and crows:
At which the Rev. Father Pat
Rolled out of bed; but, reasoning that
The Lord who fashioned flesh and frost
And died that man might not be lost,
Would surely not expect his heirs
To catch their death while saying prayers,
He tumbled back to bed again
And prayed, “Dear God, first send us rain;
And then, should you see your way clear,
Rid me of the cross I bear!
Reive me, dear Lord, of Hanrahan,
The parish wood-and-water man,
Or else return him to the fold.”
And reaching out into the cold
To cross the blankets on the bed,
He heard the cock cry overhead.
And in his lean-to at the back
Hanrahan woke, and to a crack
Applied an eye like shepherds’ warning;
And, seeing his reverence at morning
Prayer, he banged about the room
Carolling cheerily “Rolling Home”—
A ballad which, to say the least,
Is not fit matins for a priest.
"O Hanrahan! O Hanrahan!
Fear for your soul! I tell you, man,
This will not do! What, laying odds
And drinking late? Can these be God’s
Recipes for Heaven? Well,
Go to the . . . go and ring the bell
Calling the pious and the just
To Mass. And may the Holy Ghost
Descend upon you, armed with light.
And blast a pathway through your night
That shows more bleak and stubborn than
This winter morning, Hanrahan.”
So saying, Pat returned to prayer;
And on the crisp and holy air
The bells filed out like sheep along
A mountain pad, ding-dong, ding-dong.
Ding-dong, ding-dong! In peals and
volleys
They skipped like rams across the valleys,
To saunter home in single file
Leading the faithful up the aisle.
Now Hanrahan, you may have guessed,
Was one who liked his little jest
But did not care for Father Pat.
He’d taken up a contract that
He, Hanrahan, the undersigned,
Would clear such lands as were confined
By certain parallels and degrees.
Felling and stacking forest trees
Upon that portion of the chart
Named Mullion Hill or any part
Thereof adjacent to the kirk;
With paragraphs on weekend work:
A ruse devised by Paddy Ryven
To settle certain scores with Heaven.
A.C.T.
So while the eucharistic bell
Tinkled! like frost on Mullion Hill
And "Glory, glory, God on high!”
Rose to the green and luminous sky
On tongue of bird and tongue of man,
This sabbath-breaker, Hanrahan,
Shouldered his lean short-handled axe
Stained with blood of chicken-necks.
And set to work. Quite soon the air
Was thick with chips; and if sweet prayer
And cries of “Timber!” do not mix,
What’s that to him? Why, less than nix—
For were not his occasions lawful?
But Hanrahan, you’d best be careful!
For, as he paused to flick the sweat
Out of his eyes and spread his feet,
He heard high up on Mullion Hill
The chiming of another bell,
A bell that trembled in the hush
Like winter water through the bush;
And then, as if the mountain spoke,
From orchid-tongues and granite rock
There burst a litany of praise
And alleluias! “Spare my days!”
Cried Hanrahan. “Another Mass!”
And stumbling through bracken, stone and
moss
He followed the vanishing service up
Gully and cliff until the top
Of Mullion rose against the dawn—
And still the tinkling bell led on.
Which was not strange, for he had heard
The mimicry of the lyrebird
Who kept a mound close by the fence
And stole the music for his dance
When tail a-tremble, through the fern
He chased his bright-eyed lyre-hen.
It chanced that high *on Mullion Hill,
A ram was grazing. Two years’ wool
Hung from his brisket like a beard;
He had £ grave, a noble, head;
And from a precipice he looked down
Majestically, The early sun,
Leaping that moment from the east,
Gilded the shoulders of the beast
And set with jewels his horned crown;
And so he gazed at Hanrahan—
Who falling down upon his face,
Cried, “Heavenly Father, send me grace!
Pardon my sins. Lord God of Hosts;
I never shook the Holy Ghost’s
Communion wine ; and, as for trees,
I’ll cut that out. Here, on his knees,
Behold your humble servant, God.”
At which the vision seemed to nod.
So now when star-frosts glitter round
And bells ring out and hills resound
Calling to sinners to repent
And join with them in sacrament,
Who is it takes around the plate
And frowns should anyone be late
And swings the censer up and down?
Who but holy Hanrahan?
DAVID CAMPBELL.


A KITTEN, stalking birds on my shed
roof, suddenly found herself assailed
by a magpie which dived, near-missed,
beat her with wings, flicked her with
beak and finally shooed her toff. Maggie
was then assailed by its old enemy the
mudlark, and flogged ignominiously. For
10 minutes the little pee wee was king of
its area, but next thing I saw was the
kitten making a meal of it. Lear would
have recognised the degree of ingrati-
tude—“ Blind Forty.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: “Columba” would have
more cause to fear that explosive (B.
17/2/’54) if it were gunpowder instead
of gelignite. Gunpowder is one of the
low explosives, which are always more
dangerous to handle than H.E. The
danger lies in the method of exploding.
H.E. detonates, which requires a shock;
a low explosive simply burns, so it can
be exploded by a spark or even by mild
heat. You can ignite a stick of gelignite
and hold it in your hand in perfect
safety while it burns with a spluttering
flame. In fact, miners who have a num-
ber of fuses to light often use a stick of
fracteur as a lighting-stick. But if you
drop a spark from a cigarette into a bag
of gunpowder it’s off.
♦ * * *
“Archaen”: “D.R.H.” (B. 24/2/’54)
rightly calls the bulldog-ant an anachron-
ism. She —all worker-ants are unde-
veloped females —belongs to the Poner-
ine ant family, most primitive of all.
They have remained unchanged through
millions of years, while others learned
how to grow crops for food, move around
the country like invading armies, or
keep domesticated livestock. The de-
velopment of ants through the years has
a curious resemblance to that of humans,
and our bulldog-ant has remained in the
same state of arrested development as
our aborigines. They live in small com-
munities, from which they sally forth to
gather food. Each hunter brings what-
ever she secures back to the camp, where
it is shared by all. Probably more curses
have been roared at our belligerent bull-
dog-ants than at any other species, but,
taking everything into account, she’s a
lady. If you leave her alone, she leaves
you alone. She never invades the house
to get into the jam or honey. In the gar-
den she does an immense amount of
good by going over the vegetables in
search of insects. There’s a nest of them
in the bottom of my garden, and I
wouldn’t eradicate them for 50-quid.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Cyda”: Can’t accept the recently-
given figure of 31b. per cubic foot for
Huon-pine. Balsa, brought to world
notice by the Kon-Tiki expedition, and
the lightest wood known, goes 71b. to
101 b. per cubic foot for commercial
grades. Cork is 151 b., and most pines
vary from 251 b. to 301 b. At the other
end of the scale is jarrah at 561 b., and,
one of the heaviest, Lignum vitce (the
bowler’s wood) 781 b. per cubic foot.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“A.F.L.”: Jack, in for the drafting,
had fallen for the little woman doing
the cooking at the station. Back at his
camp, he put his passion on paper,
sealed it,, stamped it and propped it up
among the tea-’n’-sugar and dingo-baits.
But he was loath to take the irrevocable
step, and it stayed there, mellowed by
smoke and fly-specks, till he had to get
to the pen again to write to the mission
abo. about a dog. A bit reluctantly he
transferred the stamp from Mrs. Thelma
Brown to Charlie Williams with a liberal
use of condensed-milk. Audrey, reliev-
ing p.m. at the little post-office, surveyed
the dozen or so dead flies which had died
glorious deaths on the stamp’s perimeter
and dimly wondered where she’d bang
the cancelling-stamp. %
* * * «
“Ymar”: Rising production in the
fertile Victorian Wimmera seems to have
inspired the ophidian members of the
community. A 4ft. 6in. brown snake
killed by a Lands Department officer at
Horsham contained 48 eggs. That’s
about twice the average.
* * * *
“Bass”: About the busiest denizens
of my garden just now are the red-faced
leaf-cutter bees. There’s hardly a rose-
leaf from which they haven’t taken their
neatly-circular pieces, and now they’re
turning to other plants. Some members
of the family use the pieces of leaf to
build their cells, but this species first
selects a hole in something solid—in
pieces of timber, masonry, trees, or even
old wasps’-nests—cleans it out and lines
it with a waterproof varnish, the pro-
duct, I presume, of its glands. Then it
cuts pieces out of leaves, chews them into
a paste and spreads this over the interior
of the cell. Next it gathers pollen from
gum-blossoms, stirs this into a sort of
pudding inside the cell and lays an egg.
Another paste, also made from pieces
of leaf, is used to seal the mouth of the
cell, and as this plug is over an eighth
of an inch thick and anything up to half
an inch in diameter, that means a lot of
leaf and a lot of chewing. A couple of
days later the egg hatches, and the grub
is fully grown in eight to nine days.
Once the food is eaten the grub spins
a cocoon and remains dormant until next
summer, when it will develop and eat its
way out of the cell. But it may not be
entirely like the bee that made the cell.
Only the females have red faces.
' * * * *
“Metax”: An idea before our Burnie
(Tas.) town council may be useful else-
where in view of the high cost of labor
and bulldozers. To restore local back-
lanes from the overgrown rubbish-
dumps they’ve become, it is proposed to
secure a flock of goats to eat them clear.
No overseeing costs will be involved —
councillors being mostly retired gentle-
men who will welcome the relaxation of
guiding the clearing-gang round the
town backways. Further profit from
the scheme is expected if, by judicious
advertising, the local taste for goat’s-
milk can be developed.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Derwent”; Tasmania, which has been
carrying a Cape Frederic Hendrik and a
Cape Frederick Henry on its coastline
for 150 years or more, has now renamed
the latter promontory Cape Queen
Elizabeth. Abel Tasman was the original
discoverer of Frederic Hendrik, in 1642,
calling a bay and the cape both by the
name of the Prince of Orange ; but later
navigators mistook Tasman’s chart-
placings. The cape which has now
received its royal title is on Bruny Island,
at the entrance to Storm Bay ; the original
point lies to the south of Maria Island.
The bay which Tasman named is gener-
ally known now as Blackman’s Bay, the
later Frederick Henry Bay (mistakenly
identified) still figuring on the map under
that name. An old chart in the National
Library of Vienna, drawn by Isaac
Gilsemans, one of Tasman’s company, is
probably the most ancient map of Tas-
mania in existence ; a copy is in Sydney’s
Mitchell Library, and shows the region
of the original cape. The chart came to
light only a little over 20 years ago, one
of five hitherto-unknown maps located
“Between the bite and the heart— that's what the book says."
by Dr. F. C. Wieder and published in
his Monumenta Cartographica.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: In his listing of noms-
de-toil (B. 24/2/’54) “Gravelsnatcher”
left out the commonest one. From the
W.A. border across the Nullarbor, all over
S.A., in western Victoria and in most of
N.S.W. railway-fettlers are known as
snake-charmers. How the term originated
was explained by one of them in my
hearing to a woman tourist: “Y’ see, on
a nice, warm, spring day we might kill
forty or fifty of those wrigglers
along the tracks, and other days we kill
a lot, too.”
“Saaedi”: I, too, have been unable to
discover any reason why the St. Andrew
Cross spider should weave a large white
cross in the centre of her web. Possibly
the spider herself has some doubts about
its purpose. In many webs I ve examined
the cross was entirely absent, and in
some was only partially constructed. It
may be that the cross was first incor-
porated because of circumstances which
in the intervening ages have gradually
passed away, and that the decoration is
now slowly falling into disuse.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Smeaton”: Touching on some recent
discourse here on town-planning by
bullock-teams, Ballarat (Vic.) should be
added to the list. In the gold-digging
days, when all goods had to be carried
by byljock-wagon, the roads were so
bad that no load could be drawn by fewer
than 24 bullocks. Hence the splendid
width of Ballarat’s main thoroughfare,
Sturt-street, in which 24 bullocks could
turn.
THE GIST OF IT
~ ’DAY, Spike."
1 ("I “Ar, g’day, ’Any. ’Ow’s
y j tricks?”
“Pretty jake. Decent sort of
a day.”
“Fair enough. But I don’ s’pose y’
dropped in ’ere to yap about the weather.
Wot’s on y’r mind, ’Any?”
“That job in Parker-street last night,
Old Goldbloom’s ‘ Moscow-shop was
knocked off. Diamond rings. No other
jewellery or watches snitched. No Oscar,
"I hear he's dreadfully plain
without make-up."
It’s got your trademark all over it,
Spike.”
“Y’ got nothin’ on me, copper. I was
over at Black Maurie’s sly-grog joint
givin’ him a hand when the rush was
on up till about eleven. Then we bowls
a few over an’ I mizzles orf about one
o’clock. Gutty Joe gives me a lift back
’ome ’ere in his bomb, and we knocks
the scones orf of a lot more. Lars’ thing
I knows it’s after four, an’ just before I
pass out Joe parks me in me four-poster
in full marchin’ order -p’e’ll give y’ the
drum I was paralytic. Now, ’ow the
’ell could I ’a’ knocked off Goldy’s if
I’m as full as a goog? Y’re bats, ’Arry.”
“Yair? Well, y’d better grab y’r Horn-
burg, Spike, an’ leave word with y’r
butler that you won’t be home for the
chicken Maryland. Y’re dinin’ out.
You’ve got a rondeezvous with the sarge.
He’s just dyin’ to have a yarn with y’—■
he’s missed y’r jovial company
lately. He might also put y’
through a little quiz-test. Y’
never know, if your luck’s right
in y’ might cop the lot!”
“Very funny, copper. But I
wasn’t there, I tell y’. I gotta
alibi, all sewn up neat.”
“Yair? Aren’t you lucky,
Spike! By the way, is this blue-
checked sports-coat the one you
wore oyer to Maurie’s last
night?”
“Think you’re the big clever
demon, eh? Well, it ain’t! I
wore me blue pin-stripe suit.
Maurie’ll tell y’!”
“Well, isn’t that peculiar!
Because in that case someone
must ’a’ snavelled your blue
check just for the night an’
considerately returned it. And
whoever wore it did the jigger-
button off it when he busted
into the Irish stew’s three-ball
outfit, because I happened to
pick it up near the safe that
he’d run the tin-opener over.
Y’ see, it’s exactly the same as
the other buttons on y’r coat,
an’ the twist o’ cotton is the
same as the bit that’s still
dingin’ to it, Y’ shouldn’t be
so careless, leaving y’r clobber
where someone can get it. Y’
really ought to get a burglar-
alarm installed here. Spike,”
“YTe in good form today, ’Arry.
It’s a wonder George Wallace ain’t
snapped y’ up for his Palladium show.
You’d knock ’em rotten with that line o’
patter o’ yours. I tell y’ the coat never
left this room.”
“Okay, okay, have it your own way.
I believe y’. Spike, but, y’ see, the sarge
is one o’ these low suspicious blokes. I
know it’s just a coincidence that the
jigger-button I found matches the others
just like your left lamp matches your
right one, but you’ve got to convince the
sarge. Now jump into your trilbies and
I’ll escort y’ down the red carpet we’ve
put out specially for y’ down to the
Daimler.”
“Y’re a sarcastic blankard, ’Arry! A
man oughta ’ave kicked your guts
through y’r backbone that night when I
’ad the drop on y’ down Riley-street.”
“That’s your weakness. Spike. You’re
so sentimental and tender-hearted. I
suppose you howl like hell when you see
the i sheila in the pictures sittin’ beside
her sick baby an’ cryin’.”
“Aw, can the orat’ry, ’Arry. You ain’t
no Bob Menzies.* I’ll go quiet if y’
promise to rustle a man up a feed of
eggs-an’-chips down at the station —me
stummick thinks someone’s dragged a
Bengal acrorst me Adam’s-apple.”
“Okay, Spike, we’ll turn it on for y’
for being a nice bloke about this. I
won’t snap the bangles on —bit of a
dam’ nuisance getting ’em out of my.
kick.”
“Forget ’em, ,’Arry. I won’t try any-
thing. How’s the strife?”
“Pretty good. Having another one
soon.”
“ ’Stmth! That’ll be your fourth,
won’t it? Where’ll y’ put ’em all? Give
us the drum when y’ get so many y’ got
to put on a few more rooms an’ I’ll give
y’ a hand. I’m pretty good with me
mitts.”
“You aren’t kiddin’! Anyway, thanks
for the offer. No, Spike —you first down
the stairs, thanks —did y’ happen to see
me nappy-pin sticking out, or some-
thing?”
And the court report of it.
The first witness called was Detective
Harold George O’Toole, He said he
visited accused’s home on the morning
after the robbery at Goldbloom’s pawn-
shop. He showed accused the button
he had found at the scene of the rob-
bery. He saw a coat from which a
button was missing. The missing button
was exactly similar to those still on the,
coat. He had then arrested accused,
after having formally warned him that
anything he said might be taken down
and used against him at his trial, but
beyond saying he had spent the night
with a friend, accused had had nothing
to say.
Bo.


NOW
#«
a '
Kf!
There are picture subjects
all around you . . . the
children, your pets, week-
end activities, as well as
happy hours spent with
friends, old and new.
Keep your camera always
handy and loaded with
Kodak Film, you’ll make
better pictures on Veri-
chrome or Super-XX. And
don’t forget to keep ah
extra roll handy.
<s>
it
V?
it
SI!
Jl
KODAK
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
KODAK (Australasia) Pty. Ltd. XNH2.53
dsf
YOU CAN NOW OBTAIN
the very latest
21 sq. TWIN LENS
REFLEX CAMERA
Rolleiflex 2.8 Xenotar.
Price, including E/R case, £HU.
Goods available on special easy terms. No n J- erest
charged if paid off in 90 days. We send C.
For All Your
Photographic Supplies
Write or Call
Cairns Camera Service
Hotel Australia Building:,
19 Martin Place, Sydney. BW 9556,
CAIRNS
CAMERA
CENTRE
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Australian Oil and Gas
A SKING the public for a
million pounds in ss. shares
(6d, application, the rest in six-
penny calls within a year),
this limited - liability co. has
had its issue fully “booked”
before the prospectus was gener-
ally available. (The four-
million shares were underwritten
by J. and J. North, members
of Sydney ’Change.) The com-
pany proposes to “prospect and
develop the oil and gas resources
of the Sydney Basin and else-
where.” It is acquiring an
authority to prospect all avail-
able Crown lands within an area
of about 3150 square miles of the
Sydney Basin. The actual extent
of such Crown lands is not stated.
The authority expires on May
31, 1954. A renewal has to be
applied for. During the currency
of an authority the applicants are
entitled to apply for titles to a
selected area.
Consideration payable for the
transfer of these authorities and
for geological data is £25,001 in
cash (half to be taken out in
shares). The vendors, T. W. H
Dee Pty., Ltd., and John
Strevens, will also have a three-
year option at par over 800,000
ss. shares, as well as the right
to receive £50,000 in cash (to be
then applied for shares in the co.)
in the event of the co. attaining
production of 500 barrels of oil
or three-million cubic feet of
natural gas a day. The gas part
of it is likely to be the more
easily achieved.
Applications have b,een made
by Oil Search, Ltd., for
authorities covering about 2250
square miles of the Newcastle
end of the Sydney Basin and
about 6000 square miles of the
Clarence River Basin. Oil
Search, in return for transferring
the authorities, if obtained, will
be entitled to take up 200,000
shares in Australian Oil and Gas
at par.
After payment of vendors’
initial consideration (£25,001),
preliminary exes. (£12,000), and
underwriting commission
(£41,667), the co. will have a
working capital of £921,332. The
first step is to be a geological,
geophysical and aerial survey of
the Sydney area. Negotiations
are also in train for contract-
drilling on the co.’s first selected
bore-site.
With regard to the Sydney
Basin the co. says:
Some of the most prolific oilfields
in America are found in rocks of
Carboniferous and Permian age,
which series belong to the Palaeozoic
era. Statistics show that about one-
third of the world’s oil-production
comes from Palaeozoic formations
such as are extensively present in the
Sydney district and upon which the
co. proposes to concentrate its
investigations. The formations of
the Sydney Basin are comparable
geologically with those in the
North-west Basin and Kimberley
Division of Western Australia,
where oil in appreciable quantities
has recently been struck by the
Ampol-Caltex interests. The rocks
of the Sydney Basin contain, in
addition, valuable coal deposits
from which methane gas could be
and has been derived, and supplies
are to be sought where conditions
for concentration are favorable.
As to “oil-seepages”:
For some years there have been
reports of occurrences of asphaltum
and heavy oil material along the
coast betwcn Terrigal and Tuggerah.
Long-term investigations and exten-
sive laboratory tests by John
Strevens have established the fact
that the material is seepage
asphaltum, derived from heavy
asphaltic oil. The evidence suggests
it to be indigenous to the under-
ground Marine measures from
which it has escaped along a line
of weakness such as a fault or
“dyke” fissure. Confirmatory data
have now been obtained to prove
that these surface indications are
not only extensive, but show a com-
plete gradation from permanent oil
“slicks” offshore accompanied by
natural gas, through varying stages
of heavy asphaltic oil and its inspis-
sation products.
The significance of these occur-
rences, associated as they are with
favorable geological features, places
this region in the forefront of all
those on the mainland of Australia
to which the search for oil and gas
has hitherto been directed, respect-
ing its surface indications.
The prospectus is careful to
emphasise those last four words.
Without them the public might
be led to believe that the area
was authoritatively held to be
more promising than the north-
west of W.A. Actually, com-
petent opinion generally has
favored Nor’-Westralia above all
other mainland areas. The Tas-
man geosyncline in eastern
Australia, which includes the
Sydney area, has not been highly
regarded by oil-geologists of
world standard, notwithstanding
small non - commercial oil-
production at Roma (Q.) and
Lakes Entrance (Vic.).
No mention is made in the
prospectus of the Natural Gas
and Oil Corp., which was
formed over 20 years ago to
exploit the natural gas that was
coming from the shaft of the
old Balmain (Sydney) colliery.
The coal-seam being worked
was identical with the Bulli
seam in the south and the
Wallarah seam in the north, and
it was considered that at least 16
other seams existed below this
top seam. It was thought
that the high gas-flow coming
from the seam was the result
of distillation of the volatiles
from the coal-measures, which
had a lower remaining gas-
content at Sydney than either at
Wallarah or Bulli.
Natural Gas and Oil is now
out of action. Today, while the
vendor of the Balmain site to a
new petrol-importing concern,
United Petroleum, is under obli-
gation to seal-off the old col-
liery workings, so that none of
the gas (which, after investiga-
tion by the Australian Gas Light
Co. and others, was considered
in this instance unsuitable
for commercial exploitation)
can endanger industrial
activity, Australian Oil and
Gas now proposes to perforate
the same structure in the hope
of striking payable quantities of
gas and even petroleum.
Australasian Oil Exploration
Australasian Oil Exploration,
Ltd., is taking over the oil-
prospecting permits and applica-
tions for permits of Cable Oil
Syndicate, Ltd, (W.A.). The
Cable interests get £200,000 in
fully-paid shares, hhlf before
April 30 this year and the bal-
ance within two years. Cable
Oil has the right to take up
another £200,000 - worth of
shares at par within the same
time-limits.
The public has already sub-
scribed —with great gusto—the
4.200.000 ss. shares offered fof
cash, out of which it is intended
to provide about a net million
of working capital. Sixpence a
share is payable on application
and allotment, and a first call of
a shilling by April 30. The
rest is callable within 12 months
From the Cable Syndicate the
co. gets permits to explore
about 29,500 square miles of the
Eucla Basin in W.A. and about
26.000 square miles in the For-
tescue River Basin. It also gets
a permit to explore 1800 square
miles south of Rolleston and
near Springsure, including
Reid’s Dome, in Queensland.
The co. has applied for a per-
mit over 3500 square miles
around Daru, in Papua, and
adjoining the Australasian
Petroleum (Oil Search) areas.
Negotiations are, in addition,
being carried on in respect of
an area at Lakes Entrance (Vic,).
The Queensland area appears
to border on the location of
the test-well bored by Shell
(Queensland) Development Pty.,
Ltd., in 1950. This was at
Morelia, and the well was a dry
one. Reid’s Dome, apparently,
has not been deep-drilled, and
geologist J. H. Reid suggests
that there is a sound geological
case for testing the dome for
oil. The record in Queensland
to date has been for frequent
shows of gas but no commercial
oil.
The only major oil company
to take a practical interest in
Queensland petroleum-prospect-
ing was the Shell subsidiary, and
it abandoned its search —quite
an extensive one —in 1951 after
a seismic traverse was run across
a structure east from Emerald
which indicated basement at
around 3000 ft.
The areas which Australasian
Oil has taken up in W.A. are
all extremely long shots. The
pick of the Westralian areas are
held by W.A. Petroleum and
Associated Freney; other cos.
have their leftovers. The A.O.E.
prospectus gives no statement
as to which area the co. pro-
poses to concentrate on first, but
emphasis is placed on the Reid’s
Dome area in maps and the
letterpress.
Westralian Oil
“P. Mobile”: The announce-
ment by the Westralian Minister
for Mines, L. Kelly, that West
Australian Petroleum is budget-
ing for an expenditure of nearly
£3 million in the search for oil
around Exmouth Gulf is an
encouraging indication of the
thoroughness with which this
company is functioning.
Two new rigs are being
imported, and a third, after lying
unused in Government store-
rooms since 1949, has been
acquired. One of the imported
rigs, presumably a slim-hole,
mobile outfit, will be used to
test * the 3600 ft, “oil-boom”
stratum at Rough Range. Six
“developmental” wells are to be
sunk, and the results obtained
should allow of a reasonably
accurate estimate of the com-
mercial value of this horizon.
The second imported rig will
be employed in drilling three
exploratory bores in the area
“between Rough Range and
Carnarvon” —probably meaning
the Giralia-Cardabia structure—
which, to be tested adequately,
will require a rig of the type now
in use at Rough Range. It is
proposed to continue the Rough
Range No. 1 test-well down to
basement, if stratigraphic and
other conditions allow.
The outfit just purchased from
the Department of National
Development —designed for a
minimum depth of 10,000 ft. but
capable of considerably exceed-
ing that figure when used by a
company such as WAPET
employing skilled and experi-
enced technicians —is to be taken
inland from Derby and used m
the district pioneered by Freney.
Incidentally, the department
now estimates the depth of the
basement at the Rough Range
location to be “possibly
17,000 ft.,” but whether any
reliance is to be placed upon this
figure is doubtful in light of
previous forecasts by the same
organisation of the depth at
which the first oil might be struck
(2000 ft. below the actual show),
and, on the other hand, of the
thickness of the Cretaceous
System (short by at least 1500 ft.)
which has been disproved by
drilling results. These two mis-
calculations have probably been
investigated in the field by
WAPET petroleum - geologists,
who are likely, also, to have
examined the Permian evidence
critically, but no statement may
be expected until the work
approaches finality.
All good Australians, however,
will hope that the assumption of
the Department of National
Development that “oil might be
found again at one or more
deeper levels at the present bore
will become a reality. It is
refreshingly different from the
pronouncements which issued
from the same source in the
hysteria of December last.


LINKING
MANUFACTURERS
5S
m
w.
. -
s-w
WITH
MARKETS
New markets and new sources of supply are
constantly being uncovered through A.N.Z. Bank's
Trade Enquiry Service.
This service, operated through thousands of A.N.Z.
Bank's agents in all parts of the world makes a
most important contribution toward the maintenance
and expansion of Australia's oversea trade.
A.N.Z. Bank's Trade Enquiry Service is available
to Australian businessmen through the Manager of
the Bank’s nearest branch.
A-N-Z
AUSTRALIA .
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
BANK OF THE UNION BANK
AUSTRALASIA • OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Established 1835 Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, and in London.
Agents in all parts of the world
■— mmmmmmmmmmm—mm— —— ANZ.24. 3550
MORE PULL with
I ■ ■
LESS FUEL PER
JIJoIJq
t
MIC OR Ml/
K. ‘-v •
N£
5«
WITH
THE
fTTTj
Super AW-6 Tractor
INTERNATIONAL
your job heavy pulling on the
drawbar or lighter work with direct-attached
equipment you’ll find the new McCormick Inter-
national Super AW-6 will do your work easily and
'quickly. The Super AW-6 was designed and built in
Australia to give peak performance and more H.P. hours
per gallon on Australian power kerosene. It has all the
power to do all the jobs in preparing the seed bed,
planting and harvesting the crop, and there’s a full line
of matched equipment to match its speed, power and
traction.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works: Dandenong and Geelong, Victoria.
21% more drawbar power.
Larger displacement engine designed exclusively
for Australian power kerosene.
New aluminium alloy low expansion pistons for
better heat control and less vibration.
New distributor for improved spark control at
ail operating speeds.
New transmission with stronger countershaft,
heavier gears and greater capacity bearings.
New wide base tyres for greater traction and
better balance.
Available with three-point linkage and two-way
hydraulic remote control for trailing equipment.
SEE YOUR LOCAL INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER DEALER.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
Builder of Essential Equipment for Essential Work.
m
McCormick Internationa)
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Trucks
Defender Refrigeratort
International Industrial Power
SL43S-M
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Pensions for everybody
wage-earners, salaried staffs,
bosses and those who work for
themselves? This was the main
problem before the Millard
Tucker committee, appointed by
Stafford Cripps in 1950 to
inquire into taxations and
pensions.
The fact that the 150-page
report—a model of patient
unravelling and constructive
understanding—has taken three-
and-a-half years to prepare
Shows how chaotic and dis-
parate are the existing pension
schemes when viewed as a whole.
At present, rather more than
one - quarter of Britain’s
23,000,000 workers enjoy some
form of pension-provision out-
side the State benefits. And here
“worker” includes all grades,
from sweeper to non-controlling
director. The one may receive
as little as a year’s wages on
retirement and the other as much
as £40,000 in cash, plus an
annuity for the rest of his life
of about £ll,OOO a year.
It was the popularity of the
latter arrangement (an extreme
example of the “top-hat” scheme)
which, in fact, led to the inquiry
being made. The highly-paid
director could not only provide
for a munificent old age, but
could also save substantial
annual sums in surtax. Not so
the equivalent professional man
such as, for example, a successful
barrister. He had to suffer both
the penal severity of heavy taxa-
tion and the consequent inability
to set aside annual sums pro-
portionate to his earnings. And
the same reasoning applies to
countless other professional and
self-employed men of lesser
incomes. It is estimated that
there are, in Great Britain,
some 2,000,000 self-employed,
and that, of these, only one in
10 earns more than £lOOO a year. |
1
Working It Out, i
Although the committee is not
unanimous oyer extending
pension concessions to the self-
employed, it agrees that a man
should be rewarded over a longer
period than his actual working
life. As for the self-employed, a
majority opinion considers that
he should be allowed to set aside
up to 12 per cent, of his yearly
earnings as a single premium to
secure an annuity, and offers an
ingenious method of taking
“back-service” into account.
For the rest, the committee
makes a broad recommendation
that the build-up of the fund
should be entirely free of taxa-
tion, but that the benefits should
be taxable. This is already
current practice, since pensions
rank for income-tax as earned
income. But what the committee
obviously has in mind are the
large cash sums available in com-
mutation of one-quarter of the
pension. It is forced to the
sardonic comment that taxation
of these is a course more desir-
able than realistic, since so many
existing tax-free arrangements
enjoy the blessing of the
Revenue.
The cost? Thirty-five-million
pounds to bring in the self-
employed and nearly £80,000,000
for the whole working com-
munity (this total includes a mere
£2,000,000 for modifying the tax
qp individual annuities). These
figures do not represent a net
cost to the nation, for there is an
element of deferred taxation.
And there are two other
important factors: part of the
cost is accounted for by a
transfer from public (i.e.,
Budgetary) saving to private
saving; and, with the bill for
national assistance mounting
year by year, the Government
cannot but look kindly upon the
prospect of a future aged popula-
tion that is substantially inde-
pendent of the Welfare State.
Consideration of the findings
now rests with Mr. Butler. He
faces a double problem. Can he
afford further tax-concessions?
And, if yet more money passes
through the cautious hands of
institutional investors, where is
the sorely-needed risk capital to
come from?
Family Appeal
The success of “The Boy
Friend” (Wyndham’s Theatre) is
quite remarkable. Beginning as
a late-night frolic ht the Players’
Theatre, this pastiche of the
1920’s soon earned a transfer to
Swiss Cottage. A powerful West
End management then spotted its
merit, with the result that a
splendid West End premiere took
place only nine months after the
first “shoestring” performance
under Adelphi arches. And now
Broadway has snapped it up.
(There is a touch of irony here,
for it was the streamlined
realism of American musicals
that so mercilessly destroyed the
artless make-believe of “The Boy
Friend’s” forerunners.)
There is no better family show
in London. It is richly and
universally funny. Apart from
this, grandparents can laugh at
their past concern over their
offspring, who seemed so
“modern” and forward and who
now are obviously none the
worse for their breaking-loose.
Parents can’t hide the odd
nostalgic tear that intrudes be-
tween laughs. (“The Charleston!
Ah! Your mother and I could
tell you a tale or two!”) And
the third generation is tickled
pink at the shingles, cloche hats,
low waists, short skirts and arch
ways of the “flappers” in the
show. (“How very unsophisti-
cated they were when Mummy
and Daddy were young! ”)
“The Boy Friend” is not a
rehash but a genuine creation.
It is as if the author, Sandy
Wilson (who provides book,
lyrics and music), had continued
where Clayton and Waller,
Douglas Furber, Stanley Lupino,
Austin Melford and others had
left off. Boy meets girl. They
fall in love. There is a gigantic
misunderstanding (on the
Riviera, of course) with whistles
blowing and full-throated sensa-
tion. But everybody pairs off
happily at the end. The girl is a
millionaire’s daughter and the
boy, so obviously above his
station as a messenger, is heir to
a dukedom.
A little too much is made,
perhaps, of Miss 1926’s coy
“refanement” and higjh-heeled
gaucherie. But the second act,
enlivened by a comic Lord and
the lovers’ sentiment, is in true
contemporary spirit. It is a pity
though, that the resources of
such an excellent company do
not extend to a comedian in the
style of the period. The memory
yearns for somebody “after”
W. H. Berry, George Graves or
Joe Coyne.
Yet it is amazing that so young
a cast should have recaptured
the style of the period so well,
the more so when it is realised
that the author and the pro-
ducer, Vida Hope, were little
children in 1926, when it all
happened.
Ik


A Group of Experts to Manage
\t« rM
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
\F. H. Way {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
{Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bond. J. R. FavielU
F. B. Fleming. G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Steward
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.
ONE of Australia’s young industrial
the 26-year-old 1.C.1.A.N.Z.
—an offshoot of the big 1.C.1., England
—and its 14 subsidiaries now turn out
most of the heavy chemicals and explo-
sives, etc., which the expanding industrial,
agricultural and pastoral industries of
Australia and New Zealand call for. The
group is thus well entrenched in an
undertaking which is part of the bedrock
of the industrial structure.
Since 1950, when the public first
gained an equity interest in the business,
4,156,505 £1 ords. have been issued at
a premium of 2s. 6d. each, and £6,000,000
of debenture money has been gathered,
one half at 4 p.c. and the other half at
4\ p.c. Issued capital now stands at
£13,150,000 in 1,000,000 5 p.c. prefs. and
12,150,000 ords., on which there was still
£1,181,250 to come in at Sept. 30 last.
And the pref. and debenture moneys are
earning a lot more than their keep, and
thus contributing to the equity pool.
The ords., which have had a steady
7 p.c. over the last three years, have all
the essentials of a sound industrial equity.
The business is well organised, highly
efficient, soundly financed, new fields are
being opened up and old ones further
developed, and there is a comfortable
margin between declared net earnings
and distributions. The constant de-
velopment of new products and continued
growth of population are factors tend-
ing always to promote growth of profits,
though the development is likely to be
more gradual than of recent years. The
group’s long-term prospects, both in
respect of dividends and capital require-
ments, are therefore encouraging.
During 1953 the f.-p. £1 ords, fluctu-
ated between 375, and 335. lOd. in the
market. At last week’s figure of 355. Id.
the return is 4 p.c, on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
On the same basis the 12s. 6d.-paid con-
tribs. at 255. 3d. give an immediate
return of 3.4 p.c., or 4.2 p.c. when fully
paid. So the market has anticipated
some of its future benefits, at any rate.
Net tangible cover (book-value) is
£l6 Bs. 9d. prefs. and 255. 6d. ords.
Last term the management grappled
successfully with a wide range of diffi-
cult and diverting problems. Despite a
slip of 9.3 p.c. (£2.4 million) rh turnover
(£23.4 million), declared profit was
£88,884 better at £1,229,048;
1.0.1.A.N.Z. aN"d Subsidiaries.
, Dividends
Year, Pref. Re-
Sept., Profit.* 5 p.c. Ord. serves.f
SL & £ £
’50.. 882,633 50,000 5j p.c. = 439,642 985,979
Share premiums, £125,813 .. 1,111,792
Profit realisations, etc., £8440 .. 1,120,232
Add reduc’n intangibles, £117,970.. 1,238,202
To deferred tax res., £215,595 .. 1,022,607
To staff fund, £30,000 .. .. 992,607
Deb. exes., etc., w/ofl, £84,801 .. 907,806
Less unexp’d reductions, £188,670.. 719,136
’51.. 1,460,709 60,000 7 p.c.= 584,497 1,545,848
Share premiums, £393,750 .. 1,989,098
To deferred tax. res., £128,000 .. 1,811,098
Deb. exes, w/ofl, £72,280 .. .. 1,738,818
Less sundry adjustments, £76,853.. 1,661,965
’52. .1,140,164 50,000 7 p.c. = 618,257 2,133.872
Reserve adjustments, £736,357 net 2,870,229
Added intangibles, £56,482 .. 2,813,747
’53. .1,229,048 50,000 7 p.c. = 705,797 8,286,998
* Eliminating outsiders’ proportion. f Deducting
intangibles (now £801,782).
The profit was struck after writing down
the book-value of stock by £218,797 and
setting aside £818,647 (up £140,725) for
depreciation and £923,108 (down £62,175)
for taxation. The £1,229,048 was enough
to pay the pref. div. (£50,000) and show
11.6 p.c. on average ord. capital as
against 12.3, 16.9, 10.4, 7.3 and 8.1 p.c.
back to 1948. That leaves out of the
reckoning unexplained additions to re-
serves totalling £736,357 net, which
appear to have some connection with
adjustments of the 1953 book-value of
fixed assets and stocks.
The year started with trade sluggish,
stocks high and liquid resources limited.
However, with the help of import-restric-
tions and a buoyant export income, sales
picked up as the year advanced, stocks
were worked down, the overdraft reduced
and the cash position strengthened;
1.0.1.A.N.Z. AND Subsidiaries.
1952. 1958.
Paid capital .. .* £10,787,500 £11,968,750
Reserves 3,666,290 4,088,730
Debentures .. . • .. 5,154,600 6,000,000
Outside interests* .. .. 1,195,385 1,327,294
Overdraft 3,085,492 883,886
Sundry creditors, etc. .. 3,515,596 3,667,072
Taxation, etc. .. .. 2,109,825 2,182,943
Final div. .. .. .. 405,784 462,062
£29,920,472 £30,530,736
Freeholds, plant, etc. .. 9,745,141 11,153,686
Stocks 14,283,883 11,427,230
Debtors • • .. .. 3,878,306 4,757,414
Investments .. .. .. 1,124,896 1,239,585
Cash, etc 142,996 1,151,089
Intangibles .. .. •• 745,250 801,732
£29,920,472 £30,530,736
* Includes proportion reserves.
The reduction in stocks was £2,856,653
and in the overdraft £2,201,607. The
holding of cash, etc., increased by
£1,008,093. To meet the growth of
£1,408,545 in fixed assets and of £879,108
in debtors’ balances, shareholders put up
£1,181,250 of fresh captial and an extra
£845,400 was raised on debentures. The
improvement in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£5,429,856) was £262,082.
Major extensions to the big alkali
works at Osborne (S.A.) are now com-
plete, and the plant is able to meet total
Australian demand for soda-ash, caustic-
soda, sodium-bicarbonate, etc. At Botany
(N.S.W.) a £3,000,000 programme of ex-v
pansion is; in progress, and at Croydon
(Vic.) a new agricultural research-station
is being established on a 140-acre hold-
ing, where insecticides for plant and
animal use, fungicides and weed-killers
will be tested and developed. It was in
this connection that the co. bought the
stock, plant, trade-marks, etc., of Taub-
man’s Chemicals Pty., which produced
about 50 p.c. of Australia’s requirements
of D.D.T. as well as other insecticides,
etc. The price paid was not mentioned,
but is believed to have been in the
neighborhood of £430,000. Also, tery-
lene, ardil and other new products of the
English parent co. are being imported on
an agency basis. Costs are the co.’s main
trouble, and it has applied for substantial
protective duties on all alkali and
chlorine products and on a wide range
of chemicals.
Mount Lyell (Tas.)
IV/TT. LYELL is a combined mining,
smelting and investment proposition
with* a paid capital of £2,325,000 and
reserves of £2,009,265. At the moment
most of the profit, and therefore the div.,
comes from outside investments, and
looks like continuing to do so. At Sept.
30 last these investments stood in the
books at £2,701,096 (up £143,395), or
£214,248 less than their par value. They
comprise the following holdings;
Number Shares Held.
r * V
Company. Pref. Ord. Par Value.
Metal Manufacturers.. 49,204*1,262,909 £1,312,113
Com’wealth Fertilisers 311,174* 596,257 907,431
Cuming Smith Fer-
tilisers .. .. 475,000 475,000
Australian Fertilisers.. 118,750 118,750
1.0.1.A.N.Z. .. . . —51,885 t
Email 120,000 80,000
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell .. 27,150 27,150
* 7 p.c. f Includes 18,625 £1 shares paid to
12s. 6d. each.
Dividends received therefrom last term
totalled £170,440 (up £5072), equal to
7.3 p.c. on share capital.
The following comparison of income
and its breakdown shows the position in
detail:
Income— 1952. 1953.
Copper, etc. •• • • £3,072,167* £3,070,614
Dividends .. .. ■ • 165,368 170,440
Total £3,237,535 £3,241,054
EX Mining 1,461,267 1,399,025
Refining, smelting.. .. 1,249,557 1,311,719
Development, depreciation . 69,110 104,241
Administration, etc. .. 225,177 225,756
Total £3,005,111 £3,040,741
Net profit , • • • 232,424 200,313
* Excludes £106,078 received from copper pool.
The £200,313 (down £32,111) of distribut-
able profit was 8.6 p.c. on capital as
against 10, 8.4, 5.7 and 6.4 p.c. back to
1949. The div. was lowered from p.c.
to 6i p.c., making the average distribu-
tion over the last decade 5.3 p.m.
The board aims at a dividend of 10 p.c.,
which is modest considering the nature
of the venture as a whole. With this end
in view a lot of money has been spent
of recent years on additions and improve-
ments to mill and other equipment in
order to quicken and cheapen the output
of mine products. Still, it is obvious
that the mine, which‘supports a com-
munity of some 5500 people, is not earn-
ing a reasonable return on the £1,633,169
of shareholders’ funds employed therein.
It is a large, low-grade open-cut
proposition which can only be worked
at a profit by large-scale throughput and
judicious removal of overburden. Ton-
nages handled during the last two years
were:
Total Assay,
Materials, Overburden, Ore, Copper,
Tons. Tons. Tons. P.c.
1952.. 2,643,972 1,204,045 1,439,927 0.617
1953.. 2,812,235 1,338,971 1,473;264 0.606
Treatment of last term’s ore yielded
29,758 tons of 24.8 p.c. copper concen-
trates, which, together with 6291 tons
concentrates from the stockpile, were
put through the smelter for the following
results in terms of fine metals:
Copper, Silver, Gold,
Tons. Oz. Oz,
1952 .. 9048 28,631 5069
1953 .. 8648 25,546 5502
The slightly lower output of fine metals
and higher operating and other costs more
than offset the gains from the rise in the
price of electrolytic copper, which
averaged about £A342 a ton as against
£A29O a ton for the previous year. In
addition, 53,912 tons of pyritic concen-
trates, assaying 48.9 p.c. sulphur, were
produced. The co.’s all-in costs last term
were £351 per ton of copper produced,
which suggests that the small profit from
mining came from sales of gold, silver
and pyrites.
The quantity of Australian copper
taken by local consumers fell, and the
value of metals on hand increased by
£416,004;
1951. 1952. 1953.
Metals .. .. £1,314,407 £1,410,841 £1,826,845
Book debts .. 87,012 98,129 83,504
Stores, etc. .. 751,617 1,036,374 1,044,385
Shares other cos... 2,540,835 2,557,701 2,701,096
Total .. £4,693,871 £5,103,045 £5,655,830
Liabilities* .. 2,047,618 2,360,282 3,144,953
Liquid surplus .. £2,646,253 £2,742,763 £2,510,877
* Includes a 15-year loan of £1,350,000.
The growth of £784,671 in outside liabili-
ties was mainly in respect of a 15-year
loan from the National Mutual Life
office, now £1,350,000 (up £600,000). The
net addjtion to the book-value of fixed
assets (£1,968,700) was £157,911.
Last week the London price of electro-
lytic stood at £5236 ( = £A295) per ton,
and the outlook is uncertain, partly be-
cause of the position in Chile. Aus-
tralian copper-producers are asking for
tariff-protection to ensure a local price
of £A32O per ton. Because of special
circumstances, Lyell wants an extra £A2O,
or £A34O per ton. Much will depend
upon the Tariff Board’s recommenda-
tion.
Doubtful of the future of metal prices,
and therefore of the mine as a profit-
earner, the sharemarket prices the co.’s
f.-p. £1 shares at 18s. (20s. 6d. a year ago)
to return 7 p.c. on a 6i p.c. div, basis.
Warren and Strang (Aust.), Ltd.
/"\RIGINALLY it was Warren and
Strang (Queensland), Ltd., which
operated in a small way as a private co.
until 1947. The name was changed to
the present title in 1950, following pur-
chase of Warren and Strang Pty., Syd-
ney, from whom the Queensland business
was originally bought. Though activities
extend to all the States, the bulk of the
business, which is on a wholesale basis,
is still done in Queensland, where sole
distributing rights are held on account of
a number of southern manufacturers.
The main lines handled are dress piece-
goods, manchester, soft-furnishings,
carpets, felt and other floor-coverings and
leather.
On a hungry and rising market, in
which the difficulty was to get goods
rather than sell them, and with a lot of
help from outsiders by way of trade and
bank credit, the co. was able to win in-
creasingly attractive results on a moder-
ate share-capital, now £135,014. Share-
holders received three divs. of 8 p.c.,
followed by two of 10 p.c. for the five
years to 1950.
Then came the balance-of-payments
crisis and its attendant difficulties, which
dealt the textile trade a severe blow. Re-
tailers drew in their horns, and manu-
facturers, local and overseas, quickened
their deliveries. The co. thus found it-
self considerably overstocked, and had
to lean heavily upon the bank and others
for assistance. In the scramble for
liquidity prices had to be cut, service of
the debt pressed hard on the attenuated
earnings, and a loss of £15,927 showed
up in 1952, compared profits of
22.3, 20.3, 13.1 and 7.8 p.c. on average
capital back tp 1948.
But the main source of the co.’s
troubles, namely, the weight of both
stocks and outside debt, remained, and a
heavier loss (£48,041) was recorded for
the year to June 30 last —£22,689 of the
capital was then unrepresented by
tangible assets in the books:
Warren and Strang (Qld.) and Subsidiaries.
Be-
June, Profit. t —Dividends—tained. Deficit.*
1947.. 4,687 8 p.c. = 1,035 3,652 688
Flotation exes., £2169 .. .. 2,857
Intangibles disappear, £l5B .. .. 2,699
Res’ves.*
1948.. 7,616 8 p.c. = 3,600 4,016 1.317
1949.. 7,848 8 „ „ 4,800 3,043 4,360
Sundry adjustment, £3 .. .. 4,363
1950.. 12,198 10 p.c. = 6,001 6,197 10,560
Warren and Strang (Australia).
Profit sale subsidiary shares, £460.. 11,020
Share issue exes., £1462 .. .. 9,558
1951.. 24,687 10 p.c. = 10,501 14,186 23,744
Loss.
1952.. 15,927 Nil 7,817
Profit sale assets, £15,041 .. .. 22,858
Tax overprovided, £2494 . • •• 25,352
Deficit,*
1953.. 48,041 Nil 22,689
* After deducting intangibles, now £10,026.
The trouble last term was due almost
wholly, the board says, to more-or-less
forced realisation of stocks (especially
manchester-goods) in order to lighten
the outside debt. Activities at Sydney,
where much of the mischief occurred,
have been severely curtailed, and a lease-
hold there was sold at a profit of £15,041.
During the year the book-value of
stocks was reduced by no less than
£404,521, thus enabling £233,907 to be
slashed off the overdraft and £102,584
off the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors :
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. ~ £135,014 £135,014 £135,014
Reserves .. .. 23,744 7,817
Overdraft .. .. 52,358 255,978 22,071
Tax provision .. .. 24,218 24,218 16,724
Creditors .. .. 202,381 273,696 171,112
Pinal div. .. .. 6,751
£444,466 £696,723 £344,921
Plant, etc 7,525 7,642 6,363
Stock 252,745 522,019 117,498
Debtors .. .. 184.021 166,864 199,099
Cash .. .. .. 175 198 273
Deficit .. .. 22 ’ 688
£444,466 £696,723 £344,921
Trade picked up toward the close of
accounts, as the growth of £32,235 in
debtors’ balances suggests, and has been
satisfactory and profitable since. Also,
the chairman adds, stocks have been


DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. Advt.
Australia's
finest Brandy
for nearly
a century
m
mu
Wm
W.
tiOSPITAL
IS
■Co Tr
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
mj
1 VJLIdSOH
BRANDY
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS; TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
T5T.29.12
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO REGINALD WATTERS late of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that ANNIE MARY THQRBURN
WATTERS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 639 of 1954 on the ground of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the First day of June 1954
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ADRIAN O. R. TWIGG,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
For Sale
P 4 Perkins 25 KVA Alternating Set,
logged 600 hours, in good condition —
offer.—W. BUTLER TOBACCO CO., 50
Marshall Street, Surry Hills, N.S.W.
Missing Friend
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts
of ALFRED ROBERT .CLARK, formerly
of Wolverhampton, England, and late of
15 Kenneth Street, Bondi, communicate
with the PUBLIC SOLICITOR, 104
Hunter Street, Sydney?
ANOTHER
RECORD YEAR
FOR THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
The 84th Annual Report reflects the consistent progress of
this purely mufual Life Assurance "Institution.
ASSURANCE
FUND
INCREASED
NEW BUSINESS
INCREASED
INTEREST
RATE
INCREASED
BONUSES
INCREASED
The Assurance Fund was increased
by £6,768,163 and amounted to
£93,095,044 at 30th September.
1953.
63,234 Policies were issued, assur-
ing £42,443,930 and, providing
annuities of £246,627 per annum.
Average rate of interest earned
on Assurance Fund was £4/6/9
per cent. (Net rate after deduc-
tion of rates and taxes was £4/0/3
per cent., as compared with
£3/14/6 for the previous year.)
Bonuses for this year will be upon
a scale substantially higher than
the scale which the Association
had maintained unaltered since
1947.
£
RESULTS FOR 84 YEARS —1869 to 1953
Amount Paid to Policyholders £118,184,397
Assurances in Force £329,343,358
Assurance Fund £93,095,044
£
The Association transacts Ordinary Department business only
(including Group and Staff Superannuation). All Profits belong to
Policyholders alone. There are NO Shareholders.
£
£
The NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF A/ASIA LTD.
(INC. IN VIC.)
VICTORIA:
395 Collins St., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND;
293 Queen Street, Brisbane,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA;
81 St. George's Terrace, Perth.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
350 George Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
91 King William Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA;
119 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND:
Custom House Quay, Wellington.
written down to a value at which
there should be no further loss
on realisation. But sundry credi-
tors and the bank together still
had 345. sd. (745. 2d. at the
previous balance) at risk in the
business for every £1 of net
tangible assets belonging to
shareholders.
The business is still in a tight
corner financially, and will re-
main so until the floating debt
can be further substantially
reduced. Meanwhile, trading
results, which will remain sensi-
tive to changes in the economic
climate, are likely to be much
more moderate than in 1950 and
1951, and shareholders would
appear to be in for a thin time.
After sales at 12s. a month or
so ago, buyers recently offered
16s. and sellers asked 20s. for
the f.-p. £1 shares. At 18s. the
return would be only 5.6 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover is 16s. Bd.
North Australian Uranium
Window-dressing apart, and
there is plenty of it in the co.’s
prospectus. North Australian
Uranium Corporation, NX., is
a prospecting concern which has
been launched in Sydney with a
nominal capital of £1,000,000 in
ss. shares, of which the public
was offered 1,300,000, payable
2s. 6d. down and the balance as
required. The issue was under-
written at 2d. a share (£10,834)
and taken firm by Charles H.
Smith and Co., Sydney. Other
preliminary exes, are put at
£3OOO.
For a start the vendors
(Mobile Minerals Extractions
Pty. and associates) take 20,000
f.-p. shares, plus £5500 cash, for
giving the co. an option over
rights held by them to prospect
four likely uranium-bearing
areas between Darwin and
Katherine in the Northern Ter-
ritory, plus a further £lO,OOO
cash, of which one half is for
reimbursement of expenditure on
acquiring areas, etc., and the
other half for plant (not item-
ised).
The co. will thus kick-off with
an issued capital of £337,500,
paid to £175,000, of which
£133,666 will be available as
working capital. In addition
there is a contingent liabilty of
£59,500 to the vendors, payable
as to £9500 cash and £50,000
in f.-p. shares, in the event of
options over the following areas
being exercised:
Brodribb (100,000 f.-p. shares),
area of about seven square miles,
containing one first-order and five
second-order radioactive anomalies
shown on the Government aerial-
survey map. Geiger-counter readings
of from 20 to 25 times background
were obtained, where laterites were
exposed.
Brock's Creek, No. 1 (40,000 f.-p.
shares), area about five square miles.
A section 400yds. by 17yds. gave
geiger-counter readings of from 10 to
15 times background.
Mr. Wells (40,000 f.-p. shares),
covering about five square miles. No
preliminary test yet made.
Coronation Hill (20,000 f.-p.
shares, plus £4500 cash, plus a further
£5OOO cash if payable deposits located
in sulphides below 50ft.). Area about
five square miles, said to be radio-
active, but not yet examined on
behalf of the co. What constitutes a
payable deposit is not defined in the
prospectus.
Another area of about 30 square
miles, known as A.8.C., has yet
to be applied for.
The co.’s chief geologist is
A. D. Mervyn, and consulting
geologist Professor Eric A.
Rudd. But the only report pub-
lished in the prospectus in re-
spect of the abovementioned
areas is one from the co.’s con-
sulting engineer, E. H. Munn,
who is also a director.
The intention is to form sub-
sidiaries to take over and work
any deposits considered payable
after initial investigation and
development.
What profits, if any, are likely
to be won will depend upon the
results of prospecting yet to be
carried out.
On the board are Hon. T. G.
Murray, H. Morrissey, E. H.
Munn, D. R. Fullerton, J. W.
Douglass and E. Becker.
Northern Uranium
A prospecting and develop-
ment concern. Northern
Uranium Development, N.L.,
has been registered in Melbourne
with a nominal capital of
£500,000 in ss. shares, of which
1,500,000 contribs., payable 2s.
each on application and the bal-
ance as required, were offered
and oversubscribed within a
few hours. The issue was under-
written by Wallace H. Smith and
Co., Melbourne, at l£d, per
share.
The vendor, Northern Terri-
tory Development Syndicate,
takes 50,000 f.-p. shares, plus
£7OOO cash, for authority to
prospect for uranium, etc., on
two areas, one in the Rum Jungle
district (N.T.) and the other in
the Hgrberton district (N.Q.).
The co. has thus kicked off
with an issued capital of
£378,500, paid to £162,500, with
£225,000 at call. Preliminary
exes., including brokerage
(£9375), are put at £12,000, leav-
ing a working capital of
£ 131,000. Three mobile drilling-
plants are to be bought to test
promising surface indications at
depth.
When deposits of commercial
importance have been proved
operating cos, are to be formed
to further develop and work
them.
The N.T. area is 17 miles or
more south of Rum Jungle
workings. The co.’s con-
sulting geologist, W. D. Mott,
says it offers “exceptionally
good prospects of a suc-
cessful search.” Radiations
ranging from three-times to ten-
times background were obtained
in places. This evidence, how-
ever, cannot be accepted as
proof of the presence of
uranium. What it does suggest
is that the area concerned is
worth thorough investigation,
both on the surface and at
depth. The co. also intends to
apply for other N.T. possible
uranium-bearing areas soon to
be released to private enter-
prise.
The co.’s Queensland pros-
pects, one of 24 square miles
and another of five square
miles, are on the Herberton-
Chillagoe field. Here the only
evidence of uranium is identi-
fication by Government geolo-
gist T. H. Connah of torbenite,
a secondary uranium-bearing
mineral, in ore specimens. So,
until detailed prospecting work
has been carried out, no worth-
while opinion can be formed as
to the possibilities of this field.
On the board are F. B.
Clapp, R. B. Randell, C. A.
Byrne and T. R. Victor.
1 '"*■ " *
Two more syndicates have
asked the Westralian Mines De-
partment for permits to search
for oil. The Esperance Oil
Syndicate, headed by M. T.
Watt, of Hay-street, Perth, has
applied for two areas, each of
13,000 square miles; one in the
Esperance and the other in the
Ravensthorpe district. The Wes-
tralian Gold Mining Syndicate
has applied for 6500 square
miles on the Murchison field.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The beginning of March is normally
for Sydney the beginning of the active
year, January and February having been
spent in a state of semi-somnolence,
bathed either in the steamy humidity of
the city or, if lucky, in the waters of the
Pacific at Palm Beach, Terrigal and other
desirable villages.
Of course there are always the bargain
sales and “getting the children off
to school,” but as there is something
nightmarish about both these activities,
neither really awakens the Sydneyites
until March comes in. Even the Royal
visit, “recalled in tranquillity,” takes on
a halcyon, dreamlike, faraway quality.
But with this month come stirrings
of the committees, art-shows, the winter-
fashion showings, preparations for Easter
and the Autumn race-meetings, arrange-
ments for the dances of the season, the
Royal Agricultural Show and the influx
of country people within the near future.
Above all, March brings in the change
from long-bome heat to the sunlit cool-
ness that makes autumn the best season
of the year in Sydney.
☆ ☆ ☆
The year began propitiously for the
Food for Babies’ Fund with an after-
noon-tea at Prince's; Mr. Dan Clyne,
M-L.A., presiding: music from Ronald
Neill ; Mrs. Neville Lynch, as acting-
president of the social committee, hand-
ing a cheque to Mr. F. K. McEachern,
hon. treasurer, for £925; Miss Anne
Marriott, president of the younger set,
handing a cheque for £lOOl to the same
officer; Mr. McEachern himself pre-
senting a cheque to bring the total to
£2000; and both Mrs. Lynch and Miss
Marriott receiving certificates of life-
governorships in recognition of their
work.
During the afternoon Miss Jan Lawn,
Miss Dorothy Fraser, assistant-almoner
of Sydney Hospital, and Miss May
Pillinger, of the Family Welfare Bureau,
spoke of the type of case which the
Food for Babies’ Fund helped, and Miss
Pillinger drew particular attention to the
sad plight of civilian widows who can
scarcely manage to bring up their chil-
dren on their pensions, let alone cope
with illnesses.
☆ ☆ ☆
When opening the Autumn Exhibition
at the Grosvenor Galleries the Countess
Pietrasante-Sauvaigue (very smart in a
two-toned grey silk dress and a grey hat
with sulphur-yellow on it) •recalled the
time when it was the fashion to have
bare walls in the home and pictures were
“bad form.” Her hope that this fashion
had gone for ever was heartily echoed by
those gathered around, not only on
aesthetic grounds, but also perhaps be-
cause many of them were artists, and,
after all, artists have to live.
Noticed Mrs. H. A. Showers present
with her daughter Barbara (now Mrs.
Crouch) in a pretty yellow linen neatly
embroidered with pearls on the yoke and
worn with a little pointed yellow hat.
Mrs. Erik Langker looked attractive in
black suit and small white hat, Mrs.
Mark Barnett in grey suit and black hat,
Mrs. A. H. Chartres wore a black suit
and emerald-green hat. Professor and
Mrs. Dew were also seen perusing the
nostalgic country scenes which formed
the major part of the pictures on display.
☆ ☆ ☆
The art-shows are coming in at the
flood. This week sees the opening of the
Blake Art Prize for religious painting
at Mark Foy’s Gallery, Maximilian
Feuerring’s paintings are at David Jones’,
which also has an exhibition of Eileen
Mayo’s lithographs and wood-engrav-
ings ; there is an exhibition of travel-
posters from the Treuthardt Collection at
the Town Hall, Lloyd Rees is at the
Macquarie Galleries and Enid MacKellar
at David Jones.
☆ ☆ ☆
A social committee has been formed to
help raise funds for the Remembrance
Driveway of trees from Sydney to Can-
berra, for which, it will be remembered,
the Queen planted the first tree in Mac-
quarie-place. Mrs. Rupert Scammell is
president of the committee, and at the
first meeting gifts for the maintenance of
13 trees were made. Each tree will cost
£lO to plant and preserve in perpetuity.
The first trees will be planted very soon
in the Lansdowne district, and each will
bear the name of a soldier who served in
the Australian forces. Those who wish
to make donations may send them to
The Remembrance Driveway Auxiliary,
17 Hayes-street, Neutral Bay.
* * *
A small-leafed elm which had been
planted by the Queen at Government
House,’and a Cape chestnut which the
Duke had planted, were transferred to the
Botanic Gardens by the Governor, Sir
John Northcott, during the week. The
first can be seen just inside the gates
facing the Public Library, and the sec-
ond on the lawn close to the statue of
Governor Phillip. His Excellency pointed
out that the soil in which the trees are
growing is actually the soil in which her
Majesty and the Duke planted them and
that these trees are distinct from those
planted by her Majesty and his Royal
Highness in the grounds of Government
House,
Already in the Gardens are trees
planted by visiting members of the Royal
family. In 1881 the Duke of Clarence
planted one and an earlier Duke of Edin-
burgh’s tree has been growing there for
over 50 years. When George V visited
Australia as Duke of Cornwall and York
with the Duchess, later Queen Mary, they
both planted trees in the Gardens. All
these trees are marked with plaques ; they
are often overlooked by visitors to the
Gardens, but are well worth seeking out.
An engagement recently announced is
that of Ann Nunn-Pattrick, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. M. R. Nunn-Pattrick, of
Croydon, to John Randall, who is the
son of the C. W. Randalls, also of Croy-
don. Ann, who is a nurse at Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital, will finish her train-
ing before her marriage . Photo by Hugh
Spencer.
The opening night of “Captain Brass-
bound’s Conversion,” the Shaw play at
the Independent, was rather more glamor-
ous than usual because a greater pro-
portion of the audience wore evening-
dress (there was a good representation
of the Consular and Diplomatic Corps
present), and because the theatre itself
has been spruced up a bit. Noel Rubie’s
costumes and decor gave a lesson in
emphasis to budding interior-decorative
artists, for all the intense color was con-
centrated on the only woman in the cast,
Lady Cicely Waynflete, played by Doris
Fitton. Flame coupled with grey, jacar-
anda-mauve with white, egg-yellow and
emerald made her costumes more than
striking, as if an intense spotlight was
playing on her all the time. It was very
effective, but as one woman in the audi-
ence said, “If the proportion of men to
women is 13 to one, you don’t really need
an emphatic costume at all.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Those who have a “widow’s peak” will
be able to feature it this winter, for,
according to Anne Collins, the main
focus of hat-design is to be at the centre
forehead during the next six ihonths.
Here a bright jewel, like an Indian caste-
mark, may depend from a tiny, foreward-
tilting toque, or at this point a minute
pillbox may swerve upward in a curly
line. All the hats are small. Few are
the brims that survive, and these are
greatly diminished. Some hats hug the
head like those the Queen wears, but
otherwise they sit straight on the head
and lean forward.
A useful basic kitchen book is the
Helping Hand Cookery Book, recently
put on the "market by the Sydney Rescue
Work Society. It is set out particularly
clearly, and in addition to recipes of
the usual soup-to-sweet type, there are
valuable sections on catering, pressure-
cooking and invalid-cookery. While it
does not feature the more exotic type of
dish, it is a book that would be useful
for reference in any kitchen. The pro-
ceeds go to the society, which has been
holding out a helping hand to those
who need it most for 71 years, so that
all who buy this book will be doing a
good turn, not only to themselves, but
to others also.
* * *
Descriptions of missing persons are
always rather pathetic; the height, the
weight, the brown cardigans, the dis-
tinguishing marks, etc., have no reality
apart from their owner and vanish when
he vanishes. But the most touching
description appeared in Sydney papers
last week. “Seven-days-old, long,
weight 71b. 30z., dressed in a white
flannel nightdress, a white singlet and a
pink bunny-rug.”
* £ *
The Society of Women Writers of
N.S.W. will hold its first luncheon of the
year on Thursday, March 25, at 12.45
p.m. at Nock and Kirby’s Private Dining
Room, when the guest-speaker and guest-
of-honor will be Dr. Roberto Regala,
Minister for the Philippines, with
Madame Regala. Before lunch a special
meeting of all members of the society will
be held to discuss important matters —
this will be at 12 noon,
MELBOURNE
The last official appearance of the
Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh was at
the State Reception in the Exhibition
Building! where the floral decorations
used for the Royal Ball still beautified
the huge ballroom, but the Windsor
Castle backdrop had been removed to
make way for the large choir, A glowing
garden centred with a softly-playing
fountain prevented guests from crowding
too close to the dais, from which the
Royal visitors looked out across the hall
to a floodlit garden, backed with a brush-
wood fence and covered with deep-red
dahlias.
Her Majesty and the Duke were
greeted by the Premier and Mrs. Cain and
their daughter, Mrs. Robert Hunt, who
presented a bouquet. The Queen was a
truly Regal figure in a gown of stiff white
Duchesse-satin highlighted with aqua-
blue tulle. The skirt, very wide, billowed
out from her tiny waistline and was
caught up at one side to reveal a panel
of finely-pleated blue tulle. Tulle was
also looped around the hem of the satin
skirt and formed the wide shoulder-straps.
Across the bodice was the blue sash of
the Garter, to which was pinned the Star
of the Order and Family Orders, Her
high spiked tiara sparkled with diamonds,
diamonds and pearls flashed at her throat,
and she wore long pearl-drop earrings.
Mrs, Cain chose a gown of pastel-blue
silk taffeta, one side of the skirt bearing
a panel of pale-pink taffeta which
matched the pleated strapless bodice.
Mrs. Hunt chose taffeta also, hers being
palest grey-green. Dame Pattie Menzies,
who was with the Prime Minister, wore
the rose-pink sash of her Order across
the bodice of her gold-and-red-shot gown,
made from a sari. Heather Menzies wore
a full-skirted gown of gold lame.
Notable also were the sweeping lines of
the sea-green faille embellished with
magnificent silver-beading worn by Mrs.
S. Baillieu Myer; the slim white French
crepe with its silver-embroidered panels
worn by Mrs. T. T. Hollway; Mrs. John
Galbally’s bouffant white tulle gown
trimmed with iridescent beading; Lady
Disney’s slim-fitting frock of flesh-pink
brocade, heavily beaded, and with rhine-
stones for added effect; Mrs. Douglas
Cox’s lush grey-and-pink brocade gown;
Mrs. Ray Joseph’s lovely gown of gold
brocade, cut on Princess lines, with the
slim skirt ending in a fishtail train; Mrs.
Philip Dare’s Dior gown of lilac-pink
tulle, which had a bell skirt and was
studded all over with silver sequins and
crystal beads.
In brilliant sunshine, as the Royal
salute thundered from guns in the
Domain and the Royal Standard was
lowered, the Queen and the Duke of
Edinburgh left Government House for
the last time, after a fortnight of unfor-
gettable pageantry and splendor. For
this farewell the streets were again
packed, but this time the acclamations
had in them the subdued note which
betokened sadness at parting.
The last: of the triumphal progresses
ended at Essendon, and soon the big silver
Constellation was circling the city before
heading for Brisbane. Only the decora-
tions and illuminations remained as
evidence of a golden two weeks,
* * *
Mrs. R. T. Breen, the new president
of the National Council of Women—she
was elected unopposed—has interests in
a wide variety of organisations. A
former vice-president of the council, she
is an executive member of the Victorian
Baby Health Centres’ Association, is
chairman of the women’s section of the
Liberal and Country party of Victoria,
convenor of the social-problems commit-
tee of the Mothers’ Union of the C. of E.
and secretary of the Marriage Guidance
Council. Mrs. Breen, mother of two
married daughters and a single one,
Marie, who is studying painting with
William Dargie, succeeds Mrs. J. G.
Norris, who retires after having held
office for four years,
In this photo by Ray Leighton
(Sydney) Lois Stephen wears a very
lovely model by Madame Vernier from
the Anne Collins collection for winter,
1954. It combines two shades of pink
like the colors in a catteleya orchid and
is modelled in velvet, one of the season's
most popular materials for hats.
Other materials which will be seen in
this collection are kid, chamois, velve-
teens, taffeta, shantung, felt and velour.
The hairy velours are longer and silkier
than in previous years, more like plush,
though this season the very new and
smart speckled and spotted hoods make
their first appearance. Minoche feathers
are used extensively, and one of the love-
liest hats from this collection is a calot
of white feathers beautifully tipped with
feathers from the breast of the part-
ridge. Another striking hat is made in tne
shape of a grape-leaf and is of black
velvet lavishly jewelled with jet bead-
ing. This was the outstanding cocktail-
hat of the London season. Colors for this
winter are black, elephant-grey, opal-
blue, cognac-brown, red-pepper, coral,
green-pepper, cremc-de-menthe, peacock,
white and cyclamen.
☆ ■ ■ ☆ ☆
With money raised by holding fetes
in the hospital grounds, and by dona-
tions, the Nurses’ Club of Heidelberg’s
Austin Hospital has been able to estab-
lish a scholarship worth £9OO, and any
Austin-trained nurse living anywhere in
Australia or N.Z. is eligible for it. pie
winner will spend 12 months in England,
Canada, Sweden and Norway in doing
post-graduate work in all types of
thoracic-surgery cases. It is expected
that on her return she will join the
Austin staff for at least two years. The
scholarship honors the memory of a
former matron, Jessie Mclntosh. Appli-
cations for the award, stating age, quali-
fications and experience, should reach
Miss K. E. Key, of the Austin Hospital,
by April 24.
☆ * *
The Vogues and Vanities parade of
autumn fashions will be held in St. Kilda
Town Hall on March 23, commencing at
8.15 p.m., in aid of Red Cross funds.
Tickets may be obtained from Mrs. C. B.
Hearn (Windsor 4134), Mrs. D. Holly-
wood (8J3478), Miss E. McMeekm
(UY3645) and Mrs. P. Watkins
(UY1711).
* ( if ☆
The Royal fair for children, held in
the Lower Town Hall last Friday by the
Victorian Association of Day Nurseries
and Creches, which gives full-day care
for children, most of whom have only
one parent, netted almost £4OO. The
fair was opened by Mrs. John Cain, wife
of the Premier.


ight up one of these superb English cigarettes of
pre-war excellence. Savour the rich, mellow smoothness of that
pure Virginia tobacco —and you will have formed a lasting
preference for Rothmans De Luxe Virginia! You will know why, in
the most distinguished homes and clubs,
Rothmans De Luxe have for so
long been accepted as England’s
luxury cigarette.
DE LUXE
VIRGINIA
ENGLAND’S
LUXURY CIGARETTE
In aluminium containers
3j7 for 20
a
W
b}**
OF KOTHMAN
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3i ins.,
6i x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plaiti or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
In all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
ds
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan JJJ;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
SO4-SOB QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
DALGETY AND COMPANY LIMITED (Incorporated in England)
ENGLAND
r
: I
m
\
The "HAPPY MEDIUM"
4 days in the Air
14 days at Sea
By QANTAS "CONSTELLATION" to South
Africa via Cocos Is. and Mauritius, then
to England by UNION CASTLE MAIL
STEAMER. Combined fare from £432 (Aust.).
Tours to Kruger National Park available en route.
consult
Dalgetys
OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Madame Butterfly”
As done by the National
Theatre opera co. at Melbourne
Princess, Puccini’s opera is a
pretty good show, but .it is
much more impressive in the
last part of the second act and
in the last act than in the others.
Since the opera is equally well-
acted and equally well-sung
throughout, this phenomenon
was rather puzzling until the
present commentator hit on a
likely explanation.
In the last part of the second
act Butterfly spent most of her
time standing immobile at the
shoji, waiting, full of hope, for
that bounder Lieutenant Pin-
kerton to turn-up. In - the last
act she occupies herself mainly
with preparations for commit-
ting hara-kiri, Pinkerton having
come along with an American
wife and toppled all Butterfly’s
beliefs in love’s immutability.
Hence there is far less shuffle
in those parts of the opera than
in any of the others. It was
probably Gilbert and Sullivan
who, in “The Mikado,” created
this convention that the entire
Japanese nation suffers from
locomotor ataxia or some other
form of paralysis of the ambu-
latory function. It would have
been imagined that the late war,
when large numbers of Japanese
spilled over the globe almost
to the frontiers of Australia in
a surprisingly short time, would
have dispelled the illusion. They
couldn’t have done it at the
shuffle.
But, no! The convention
survives, and everyone in the
opera who isn’t of European
extraction shuffled— Cho-Cho-
San’s servant Suzuki, Goro the
marriage-broker, the Official
Registrar, the Imperial Commis-
sioner, the Bonze, Prince Yama-
dori and even Butterfly herself.
And if they don’t shuffle they
skip in a most peculiar fashion
and in a wav that the present
commentator has never seen a
Japanese skip, unless he was
suffering from beri-beri.
' The effect thus given is that
Pinkerton, Mrs. Pinkerton alid
Consul Sharpless are the only
sane people in a lunatic asylum,
and Cho-Cho-San herself ap-
pears as a ridiculous rather
than a pathetic figure, except
when she stops shuffling. Then
she becomes intensely dignified
and dramatic.
It’s a pity that director Ger-
trude Johnson, when she took
over the job of production,
didn’t use the opportunity to
give the deathblow to an absurd
convention which has always
given at least one spectator of
Puccini’s opera the willies.
If you can forget the shuffle,
Betty FretWell’s Butterfly is
satisfying all through. Kicked
out by her own people arid
dumped by her pseudo-husband,
she expresses the horror of her
isolation both in her singing and
her expression. As Lieutenant
Pinkerton, Lance Ingram is
sufficiently caddish, and John
Shaw, as Sharpless, is as awk-
ward as he should be when try-
ing to reconcile Butterfly to the
fact that she had been made a
fool of.
Lorenzo Nolan, as the
marriage-broker, would be as
good as he was as Beppe in
“Pagliacci” of the 1952 season
if he weren’t afflicted with more
of the shuffle than any other
actor.
A.B.C. String Quartet
The series of three chamber-
music concerts given by the
A.B.C.’s new ensemble met with
deserved success. Not only did
the four players —Ernest Llewel-
lyn, Harold Taberner, Robert
Pikler and Hans George—com-
bine astonishingly well in view
of their newness as a team, but
they presented well-balanced
programmes containing a high
proportion of some of the
greatest works in the literature.
The final two concerts con-
tained something right out of
the box. Joining the four with '
his clarinet came Clive Amadio
in Brahms’s Clarinet Quintet in
B Minor, Op. 115. Replete with
folksong tunes, one at least
having the Magyar strain so be-
loved of Brahms, the work is
pervaded almost throughout with
a gentle melancholy, some cross-
rhythmic patterns supplying the
only liveliness. Nowhere
throughout the three nights was
better integration achieved.
The big Quartet was Schu-
bert’s D Minor, “Death and the
Maiden.” Of the five major
instrumental works in which
Schubert used his songs as a
basis, two reached the Olympian
heights: the “Wanderer” for
piano solo and this Quartet, in
which, unlike the song, the
Maiden has no voice—Death has
all the utterance. High tragedy
it is, but with the note of noble
. resignation always uppermost.
And in the five variations of the
song’s theme which constitute
the second movement the
gradual failing of life suggested
by the braking from quaver-
triplets to simple quavers was
admirably executed.
Two contemporary works
offered striking contrasts. The
Quartet, Op. 22, No. 3 by Paul
Hindemith was about as satis-
fying as a meal of fairyfloss—
and there wasn’t even any
sweetness in it. On the other
hand, Shostakovich’s Quartet in
C Major, Op. 49, cast in the
classical form but unmistakably
modern in treatment, was most
palatable fare, strong on rhythm
and harmony—a musical struc-
ture built up logically from firm
basic melodies.
Ballet in Melbourne
No new ballets put in an
appearance at the Borovansky’s
first change at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne, but neither did the
old friends that turned up move
stiffly.
A prettier presentation of
“Les Sylphides” could hardly be
imagined. Although Raoul
Celada didn’t show much indi-
vidual talent when dancing alone,
he was a just about perfect
partner for Claudie Algeranova
in the nocturne and mazurka,
and the well-drilled corps de
ballet danced with the art that
conceals drill, as they did right
through the evening.
“Petrouchka” was notable for
the excellent rendering of the
Stravinsky music by the orchestra
under Kurt Herweg and the
clever miming of Paul Grinwis
as the inanimate puppet which
becomes dynamic and then life-
less again, a performance he fol-
lowed up with a brilliant bit of
gesturing as the schoolmistress
who dances with the general in
“Graduation Ball.”
Canberra Rep.
Canberra Rep. opened its
1954 season with Sartre’s “No
Exit” and O’Casey’s “The, End
of the Beginning”—the latter a
romping play without much
point, the former a number of
points which don’t/nake a play.
“No Exit” is a conversation in
Hell between characters who dis-
cover that they are their own
tormentors; the audience came
too close to seeing just what they
meant. Yet the play was well
cast and the well-drawn char-
acters sensitively played. Pro-
ducer Macmillan shone as
Garcin, Joy Warren almost over-
came the handicap of an
enormously improbable wig, and
Joyce Goodes was effective as
Inez.
“The End of the Beginning”
asks for more from its cast than
“No Exit,” and certainly deserves
it. John Cheyne, Tom Lowe and
Daphne Curtis obliged with a
naturalness that made one think
they were improvising.
F. M. T.
Artbursts
> While there is nothing to set
the Tank Stream on fire in Syd-
ney Grosvenor Galleries’ autumn
exhibition, there are quite a few
paintings of freshness or charm
that would look well on the
walls of anyone’s home:
chiefly the panels by Norman
Lindsay and Lance Solomon,
G. K. Townshend’s lively
“Foreshore” (a gouache full of
Choppy sea-water), Garrett
Kingsley’s “She-oaks” and
“Nepean,” the three watercolors
by Kenneth Macqueen (especi-
ally the sea-piece), Leonard
Long’s suave white trees in
“River Gums,” Erik Langker’s
small “Morning at Bowral,”
James R. Jackson’s green
“Morning, Hyde Park” and
Douglas Pratt’s “Silhouette.”
From Hal Missingham,
director, N. S. Wales National
Gallery:
In B. 3/3/’54 “The Bulletin’s” art
critic refers to an aboriginal water-
color owned by this Gallery as being,
perhaps, by Richard Moketarinja.
The painting in question is “Amulda
Gorge,” by Edwin Pareroultja, and
was bought in November, 1947.
Talkies
“The War of the Worlds”
Time deals hardly with
prophets. When Wells wrote his
prophetic drama his vision didn’t
go so far as equipping the Mar-
tian invaders of this planet with
weapons even remotely compar-
able to those confected in the
50 years since he wrote his story.
Had even the most ordinary of
these been in the hands of man
when the Martians descended
on England the visitors wouldn’t
have lasted five minutes in
fact, they wouldn’t have been
able to land.
Having taken that into con-
sideration, the American produ-
cers wisely adapted Wells’s tale
and changed it into a world-wide
invasion in which one of the
cylinders falls near Los Angeles.
American engineers get busy
with every weapon at their dis-
posal, including a squadron of
jet-fighters, demolishing which
is as easy to the Martians as
blowing out a candle.
It is finally decided to drop an
atom-bomb on them. The ex-
plosion sends up the familiar
mushroom and everything for
miles around is blown to
smithereens, but the Martians
come up smiling, having sur-
rounded themselves with electro-
magnetic bubbles of unknown
frequency which are impene-
trable to any wave of earthly
frequency whatsoever.
After having destroyed Lon-
don, Athens, Paris, New York
and Buenos Ayres and caused
the evacuation of all the world’s
greatest cities, the Martians, be-
cause of the lack of certain
corpuscles in their bloodstream,
succumb to bacteria which
wouldn’t give a human child an
attack of the sneezes.
The American producers have
done a good job, and the film
completely grips you, just as did
Wells’s story. If H.G. were to
drop in at the King’s Theatre,
Melbourne, he would thoroughly
enjoy it.


Win Carter's house
by M.G. VINCENT
WIN CARfER’S house
stood on the ridge of
Possum Hill, which had
its tapering snout
pressed closely against the
Church of England rectory and
its bushy tail frisked around the
squatting butter-factory. The
house was weatherboard and
streaked with the remnants of a
dingy brown paint. Its vine-
wreathed verandas were low-
roofed and looked like a netted
hatbrim pulled too far over its
wearer’s brows.
Before Lambert Milligan had
built his huge white home just
along the road. Carter’s house
had appeared merely shabbily
nondescript; but beside its
modern neighbor it was now a
disreputable shanty.
Although gentle Mrs. Carter
was sadly aware of this, she did
nothing to stir Win from his
lethargic contentment, because
for more than a year she was too
busy coping with marriages and
a sudden influx of newly-born
grandchildren and their appre-
hensive mothers. But at last the
time came when she and Win
were left alone, and it was then
that her dissatisfaction with the
house became intense.
Like a great number of
women who have been kept too
busy for too long rearing a big
family on a meagre income, she
found that the long-looked-
forward-to leisure was a burden
instead of a blessing. Sometimes
she fiddled miserably with un-
necessary tasks ; but more often
she sat motionless and dejected
on one of the verandas, half-
concealed by the creepers and
looking remarkably like a barn-
owl with her flat features and her
round, horn-rimmed/ spectacles
merging into the darkly-
pigmented skin about her eyes.
Several times she pointed out the
need for renovations, and made
the gentle petitions which had
proved so unavailing in the past,
but it was not till Lambert was
killed and the Cliftons moved
into his home that she made an
adamant demand.
The Cliftons’ furniture was
moved in on a Monday, but as
Win was at a Masonic dinner
that night and did not arrive
home till one in the morning, she
did not make the demand till
breakfast-time on Tuesday. As
soon as he strolled into the
kitchen, she said flatly, “You'll
have to do something about this
house. Win.”
For a moment he stared at her
astonishment. “I mean it,” she
said.
“What? Extradite the
creepers?” asked Win.
“Now don’t get my head all in
a whirl with those ridiculous
words of yours. I can see it’s no
use asking you nicely, so I’m
telling you that I have no inten-
tion of putting up with things
any longer. Steps down into the
bathroom and up into the hall.
Paint peeling off inside and out.
The lights always fusing. Now,
it’s no use trying to wriggle out
of it. Win.”
Although she did not raise
her voice, there was a coldness
in it which disturbed him. He
did not intend that she should
know this, so he said, “I haven’t
a wriggle in me. I’m flat out
like a lizard on a log. So are
my pockets. Under the circum-
cisions I couldn’t reprobate a
fowlyard.”
She turned from the stove, the
porridge - spoon dripping
viscously on to her spotless bare
floor, and cried in a voice he had
never heard before and did not
wish to hear again, “For twenty-
five years I’ve put up with this
place, and I’m not putting up
with it any longer, not now
Maisie Clifton is strutting around
in Milligan’s place.”
“Ha,” mumbled the relieved
Win, taking a sonorous sip from
the saucer which he had filled
with tea. “So that’s it!”
“I am not going to sit in this
hovel and have Maisie just down
the road lording it in that
mansion. Why, I remember
when we went to school at
Grafton she didn’t have a shoe
to her name.”
“A funny place for a shoe,”
remarked Win, seriously.
“I want a sink,” she said
firmly. “A nice white porcelain
one with a tap over it. That tap
with a tin under it in the corner
is a disgrace. And a decent
bath—not just a tin-tub hanging
from a nail. And don’t tell me
you’ll do it all. Win, because
you’ve been going to do it all
‘after work’ for over twenty
years.”
“A man works all day. He
comes home worn-out. He has
to have a bit of time to recon-
cubate.”
“You weren’t too worn-out to
father eight children,” she said
in a very low voice. “And you’re
not too worn-out to go to
Masonic dinners and golf tourna-
ments. You’re just too worn-
out to make this place decent for
me. I’ve never begrudged you
your enjoyments. You know
that. I know a man deserves
them. But what you seem to
have overlooked is that I deserve
something, too, and as you
haven’t given them of your own
accord I’m asking for them.
There’s no reason why I
shouldn’t have them now we
haven’t any responsibilities.”
She left the stove. “I’m going
up to feed the fowls and chickens
and if you’ve gone by the time I
get back, don’t forget to see Tim
Strong and Mr. Coombes about
the lights. And while he’s here
he can put in some power-points.
I want an iron and a jug. And
he can put a light over the back
landing, too, and one in the
bathroom.”
She left the room.
TfERY thoughtfully Win
v helped himself to a huge
plate of porridge. “This is one
of the times I wish she was a
nagger,” he thought, “and then
I’d know she was only letting off
steam.”
As he ate the porridge he
looked at the room; the worn
four steps leading up into the
hall, the not-so-worn steps to the
bathroom; the grey walls and
the smoke-stained yellow-grey
of the ceiling. The highly-
polished stove, poised splendidly
on its aristocratically-fine legs
like some strange steed sibilant
with steaming power, glared at
him from its imprisonment in
the dark, low stall. Above it, the
mantelpiece was frosted with
intricate lace cut from spotless
white paper, and below it the
hearth lay ike a slab of frozen
milk. Although it was tucked
away from the dim light of the
one small window, only this
corner relieved the drabness of
the room. Win regarded it with
satisfaction. For twenty-five
years he had known no other
kitchen, and he did not find in
himself any desire to’alter it.
As he took the hot buttered
toast from the oven, he thought
with the irritation of a man who
has been wakened from a long,
sweet sleep to an unpleasant
task, “She could go a long way
and fare a lot worse.”
Usually he took the short-
cut through Johnson’s paddock,
but today he felt an urge to have
a good look at the “Moslem,” as
he had named the Milligan
mansion, to Lambert’s delight,
“Don’t tell me,” he had said to
Lambert, “that that whitewashed
Moslem set you back three-
thousand quid.”
Today as he approached it,
walking with shoulders humped
and his limp accentuated, he
stared keenly at it, seeing it for
the first time as a home, gracious
and commodious, enthralling the
winter sunshine and cherishing
the summer shade. He remem-
bered the day Lambert had
shown him over the place. He
had stood at the kitchen-daor
staring in astonishment at the
long unbroken line of white cup-
boards raised a few inches above
the ruby-red floor. The handles
were all ruby-red, and the leather
mound on top of the stool was
red, too. The curtains at the
wide windows above the sink
were red and white, and the
saucepans on the big electric
stove had red handles. Even the
handle of the refrigerator was
red. “It looks like a sterilised
theatre, blood and all,” he had
commented to Lambert’s delight.
“You couldn’t have a friendly
mag to the missus here. It’s only
good for post-mortems.”
As he went on his way down
the hill, he thought of the kitchen
and wondered if it were still the
same. At last he muttered; “No
wonder family life is dying out
That kitchen’d make a man a
stranger in his own home.” He
made up his mind that whatever
happened he would not allow
that sort of thing in his home.
For the first time in many years
he felt very depressed, and when
he found Coombes, the elec-
' trician, waiting for him at the
door of the shop, he only grunted
a terse greeting.
“What’s wrong. Win? You
look seedy.” Coombes eyed him
with surprise as he followed Win
into the shop.
“Nothing’s wrong with me,”
muttered Win, “but something’ll
be wrong with that kid of yours
if he comes poking around my
shop and trying to lift my tools.
And there’s a tin of screws
missing. If he didn’t make off
with them, then I’ve swallowed
them.”
Coombes forgot his concern
for Win’s health in his worry
about his son. “You can take it
from me, Win,” he said gloomily,
“he pinched them. I don’t know
what to do about him. There’s
only one thing to be said in his
favor—he always tells the truth.”
Salving his anxiety with this
entirely erroneous belief, the
candid Coombes stood with head
thrown back in his characteristic
attitude, mouth slightly open,
and elbows jutting well out like
strange fins winging from his
distended pockets. With his
sloping forehead and long nose
all in one straight line, and his
mouth sagging, he seemed strung
like a fish from the ceiling by
invisible line.
“Get off your hook, for God’s
sake,” cried the irritable Win,
beginning to clear the bench.
“Something’s wrong with you
all right,” said the flustered
Coombes. “In all the years I’ve
known you. I’ve never seen you
like this,”
“Well, have a good look while
you’ve got the chance,” mumbled
Win grumpily, “and then go up
to my place and look at the
wiring. Something’s gone hay-
wire up there. Fuses always
blowing. Bulbs busting. And
while you’re there the missus
wants some power-points and
new lights.”
“AH right. All right,” placated
the easygoing Coombes. “But
first of all I want to tell you
what I want you to do. I want
you to make me a sort of bin
with two compartments. About
six by six and about four deep
with a hinged lid with a lock each
end. I want to keep my tools
and flex and stuff in it,” he added.
Win’s curiosity stirred. His
troubles receded a little. “Didn’t
know rats et tools and eccen-
tricity gadgets,” he commented,
darting a keen glance at the
unhappy Coombes,
“The rats are bad, aren’t
they,” was the vague reply,
“Sim was telling me the other
day he’s having a helluva time
with them. Anything he leaves
around they get on to.”
“Don’t tell me that rats live
on air,” said Win dryly, “because
that’s all Sim leaves around at
his place.”
WHEN Coombes finally left,
promising that he was
already on his way to Win’s
place. Win was in a much better
humor. He spent the morning
stripping varnish off an old cedar
chest he had bought for one
pound. As he stripped, he
thought, “Now another bloke’d
be making money hand over fist
out of this business, but all I do
is clear wages.”
He was pondering somewhat
dismally on his lack of business
ability, when the rector came in.
In spite of his miserable stipend,
he was always neatly dressed and
his lined face was fattened by
the fullness of his cheery smile.
“Nice day. Win,” he said,
standing beside an ornate
dressing-table. Unlike most of
the people who came into the
shop, he did not appear to be in
need of any support other than
his own legs, which, being bandy,
showed their rounded curves
within the black soft cloth.
Win stopped his work, and
leaning back on his heels
narrowed his eyes. “Why this
elastic interest?” he demanded
suspiciously.
The rector burst readily into a
hearty laugh ; but sobered almost
instantly as though he had sud-
denly decided that mirth might
be quite out of place. He said,
“Well, as a matter of fact
Coombes thought you looked ill
or worried or something. Mainly
something.”
“Oh, Coombes!” muttered
Win, embarrassed. He turned
back to his job. “Well, if you
want to know, the Missus has
got the pip about the house.”
There was no reply. Unable
to restrain his curiosity. Win
turned and found Leppington
regarding him with a somewhat
tolerant kindliness. They stared
at each other for a few seconds:
Then Win asked, “What do you
think of jt?”
“It’s not good enough for a
woman like your wife. She’s a
very fine woman.”
Unaccountably Win felt
annoyed. “I asked you what you
thought of the house,”, he com-
mented dryly.
After a while, Leppington said,
as though they were commencing
a fresh conversation, “I wonder
if Mrs. Carter would like to
come up to Bora tonight. Mrs.
Lep. and myself are going up to
a bazaar. Won’t be staying late.
She might like to see her sister.
She’s probably missing her
family now they’ve all left the
district. I’ll call in and ask her
on my way home.”
Win only grunted. Leppington
started for the door, but paused
by the bench. Looking uncom-
fortable, he said, “You might get
a surprise. Win, if you looked at
that house dispassionately.”
“Now, don’t try to tell me I’m
sentimental about a house,”
drawled Win. “That sort of stuff
is for women.”
“It’s just my opinion, ot
course,” said Leppington, “but I
don’t think many women are
sentimental about houses.
There’s many a woman, particu-
larly those living in the country,
who suffer some worn-out old
house because their husbands
are rooted there. You’ll see
dozens of such places in this
district alone —derelict shells on
prosperous farms, with the
women wearing themselves out
to keep them looking spick and
span, and the men hanging on to
the old house like drowning men
hanging on to a lifebelt.”
Win went on with his job.
After a while he said, “Yeah?”
Leppington laughed good-
naturedly. “Well, I suppose I
deserve that,” he said. “I’ll get
on my way before I get in any
deeper. G’day, Win.”
“Hooroo,” said Win, without
looking up.
When the sound of the foot-
steps had died away. Win sat
back and stared at the oblong of
street framed in the doorway.
(Continued on page 27)
SONG OF THE GRASS
For certain a sensuous music
cornea
when rain falls on the dust-bowl
ground,
and, so indulged, the plain seed
sends up its green sound.
The emerald song ascends a
whorl
of silence. Out of dark impulse
such joy, such sensuous music
springs
as from the lark in its pure place.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


A PRODUCT OF THE
Hfc4JT
smi
By appointment to the late King George VI.
Motor Car Manufacturers Humber Ltd.
rrmiiinnmn
firrr
mnrn
m
fds
praised for its
prized for its icwqituj
From every point of view the Humber Hawk has a
stylish beauty all its own. The high standard of
interior appointments, attention to detail and the
spaciousness with supreme riding comfort for five to
six people are all outstanding features. Economical
too, with a performance that will amaze you.
mmm
i
HUMBER HAWK
ROOTES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
FISHERMENS BEND, PORT MELBOURNE
f
YOUR CAR IN ENGLAND
Buy in Australia, use over there, and have it
freighted back without extra charge.
Alternatively, you may hire one (chauffeur or
self-driven). See your distributor or dealer.
RooteS
SROBR SERVICE
ALL AUTHORISED DEALERS
DISPLAY THIS SIGH
DISTRIBUTORS FOR HUMBER LIMITED
QUEENSLAND : John McGrath Motors (Qld.) Pty. Ltd., 324 Wickham
Street, The Valley, Brisbane. L 4871
NEW SOUTH WALES ; John McGrath Motors (Pty.) Ltd., 255-259
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA6838
VICTORIA : Neal’s Motors Pty. Ltd., 222 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
FB 3481.
gOUTH AUSTRALIA : Commercial Motor Vehicles Ltd., 165 Franklin
Street, Adelaide. LA 2201
WEST AUSTRALIA ; Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd., 900 Hay Street,
Perth. BA 9361.
TASMANIA ; D. L. Hollis Motors Pty. Ltd., York and St. John Streets,
Launceston. Tel. 1676.


Corroboree Background and a Sydney Party
From Alice to Albert
By M. H. ELLIS
1: Alice, 1924
EVEN as we came near
Tennant Creek we saw
the smoke-columns going
up. And every morning
after that they poured like young
tornados into the sky.
Sometimes they were in the
west; sometimes in the east. But
when we crossed Burt Plain, just
before beginning the arduous
climb into the JMacDonnells* they
were all on our left hand on the
Arltunga side. Out towards the
Christmas Well and Ambalindum
they rose, the more distant ones
so thin and tenuous as to be only
wisps in the incomparably trans-
lucent air of Centralia,
Along in front of us the Oil.
line, humming like a top in the
immense silence, swung from its
blue-grey metal posts. The
mountains were pure color, the
sky of the early morning glorious
in opal shades. As the winter
dawn suddenly changed from
bitter cold to dry, biting heat
while we climbed the range, the
dot-dash smoke-columns first
turned north in the morning gale
which scours Centralia south-to-
north, and then vanished against
the stark, clear background of a
deep-blue sky and ranges painted
in the colors of the rainbow,
blues and misty greys pre-
dominating.
Behind us, 1000 miles away,
lay Darwin. The trail bore many
marks of our coming. Almost
every creek-bed from the Powell
showed the wallows we had made
in scrambling through. The
sands of the desert were scored
where we had dug a way for our
tyres. Trees were ringed with
cicatrices made by the steel cable
of our Spanish windlass. And
others for 200 miles were
adorned with fluttering pennons
made from the toilet-rolls
which had turned up in a
neat case at our starting-point in
Sydney, the gift of an admiring
but guileful friend, which we
had been induced to take on
board by a deceptive label that
read; “Old Parr.”
In Darwin my old friend
Colonel Urquhart, the Adminis-
trator, once commander of the
Black Police of the Selwyns and
on the Palmer, conqueror of the
Kalkadoons and balladist of the
west, had said: “The Stradbrokes
are coming. The O.T. road’s
not so good ... mark any detours
you think as you go down . . ,
cut a few blazes.”
And so, since we felt that the
bushmen who might be with a
Governor of Victoria and an
earl might not have an eye for
blazes, we had buoyed the desert
way with toilet-paper streamers,
little thinking that there would
be a lady in the vice-regal party,
a fact which might not have
mattered in 1954, but which had
a very potent social significance
in 1924.
Then we were approaching the
point of contact; for at the Alice
we expected to meet the vice-
regal party. We had heard all
along the O.T. line, among the
telegraph - stations which
chattered over the keys, that they
would be in Alice Springs about
the time we arrived, and fear-
some indeed were the tales of
the magnificence of the entour-
age. Schultze told us at the
Powell that they had an army
of 30 Fords ; Charlie Woodward,
at the Daly, who looked just like
Henry Lawson, made it a round
dozen. At the Tennant we heard
that the vice-regal vehicles were
breaking-down in mobs.
And now, towards the Alice,
we were beginning to see our
first signs of local excitement in
a country where you still might
get excited about seeing a stock-
man travelling with a blackboy
inevitably astern, and drinks
were 300 miles apart. The
smoke-signals were going up, the
weei and the queei were coming
in in response to the calls of the
fire-dampers from all over the
landscape. They were coming
with pants and without pants, the
word having gone round for
hundreds of miles that big pfeller
tucker was on its way, and big
pfeller Government about to
launch himself (with lavish gifts
of tobacco) into the midst of a
more-pr-less enlightened and un-
washed Arunta population.
Alice Springs at that time was
the end of the world, a basin of
sandy grass bounded on the left
as you came in by the tree-hung
Todd. In the middle of the flat
expanse, with Mt. Gillen for a
back-drop, lay the stage on which
the modern town was presently
to be arranged. Just now there
was no town —just Fogarty’s
store, moribund; the pub,
closed; the “Boong” or
bungalow, that horrible recep-
tacle for half-castes who ranged
from a lassie who looked like the
Snow Maiden in the fairy-tale
to a youth as black as your hat;
the schoolmistress’s cottage —a
total of six white permanent
residents.
Around the poppet of the well
near the giant river-gums an
Afghan hauled water for some
thirsty but unenthusiastic camels.
The broad-verandaed police-
station was hung with flags.
Sergeant Stott was there in all
his glory, in white shirt, white
moleskins, no tie and a cap. An
ancient inhabitant came to try to
borrow a couple of pairs of socks
and some tea. And down
towards Heavitree Gap (beyond
which there was then no aero-
drome) a twittering announced
the progressive arrival of wild
human life.
All round was an emptiness
which had not yet been filled
with streets and banlcs, drapery-
stores and restaurants. Inland
Mission radio-centres, hospitals,
hostels, D, D, Smith and what-
not.
The nucleus of the city-to-be
was like a small island in a vast
grey ocean gone dry, over which
Ijigh blue mountain shores
loomed. It was so remote, so
desolate and uncivilised that not
an inhabitant had even heard of
Tuit’s tours.
Camping well away from the
police-station and that half-caste
bungalow, from which Lord
Stradbroke recoiled in horror a
day or two later—that bungalow
which gave the Australian
language a new word, “boong”—
we strolled down to see whom
the smoke-signals were leading
into Alice.
In the blacks’-camp the popu-
lation was many and various,
especially as to clothes. Some,
newly arrived, wore scarcely any-
thing but a bad smell; they had
not waited to dress when the
news reached them in the wilder-
ness that “plenty tucker” was in
the offing, not to mention plenty
blanket, tea, trousers, tobacco
and other luxuries.
A youngish constable—fresh,
one would imagine, to that some-
what complicated community—
was standing by a large pile of
Government blankets, trousers
and Mother Hubbards attempt-
ing to cope with the flood which,
even without the smell, was too
much for him. The kindly
authorities knew that when the
news got around that vice-
regality was about to honor the
Alice with its presence the boys
and girls of the countryside
would be on the spot in no time
to take part in the festivities.
And for some extraordinary
reason (Governments are strange
entities) it had decided that
visitors would be more welcome
in Lady Stradbroke’s receiving-
line if they wore something sub-
stantial, at least from the waist
down.
The station blacks, of course,
were all right; but from the
mountain fastnesses unsuspected
population was steadily materi-
alising who had never heard of
pants—or receiving-lines but
who had receptive minds and
The author o£ this article was in command of the Bean
Car Expedition, which made the first complete double-crossing
of the continent by motor-car from Sydney to Darwin and
back in 1924.
The other two members of the party were the late Francis
Birtles and J. L. Simpson, a young engineer of the Bean
Company, who went as an observer of Australian conditions.
H.M.S. Hood, in which the car and the leader of the party
had lived for a while, lies at the bottom of the Arctic seas.
The car itself is in South Kensington Museum in London, and
some of its native trophies, acquired mostly as gifts at the
coiroboree described in the article, were used to adorn the
wardroom of H.M.A.S. Arunta when she was commissioned.
were soon to be seen acutely
capitalising opportunity. Only
those who were stupid stayed
content with Providence’s first
gifts; most gave proof that
ambition and avarice are just as
much an ingredient of the
Arunta composition as of that of
Pitt-street. Arrayed by the con-
stabulary like Sheba or done-up
like Jackie, the newly-clothed
arrivals rarely paused before they
wandered off guilelessly in their
new finery, to hide it and come
back for more. And when we
arrived the aftermath was in
progress, to the bewilderment
and exasperation of the
constable.
“Me bin losim, boss. Cheeky
beggar bin catchim along water-
hole!”
The brown eyes, guileless as a
spaniel’s, fasten on the generous
minion of the law. A shapely
opulent young form, nearly ail
revealed, gives off its odors, and
a coy mundowie draws patterns
in the sand.
“Go to blithering blazes, you
something something. You
stuck ’em away in a hollow log
to get another issue.”
“Boss, me no more gotim
clothes all-same”
“No more you gotim, all
right, you blanky female
burglar. Get going!”
But the argument is suddenly
interrupted. Yells, shrieks and
loud bailees. It appears that
mulga-wire or smoke-signal, via
a panting Afghan, has brought
the news that Lord Stradbroke is
imminent. The barriers must be
lined, the peerage welcomed.
The weei and queei rise as one
man (as the Companies Act
says, the masculine gender
imports the feminine) the
Arunta, and any stray Kaiditcha
and Warramunga that happen to
be about the stations. The sandy
dust rises under prehensile toes
as they break all records across
the plain to be in time, which
more than half are not. It is not
unnatural that in the excitement
some old gentlemen fail to
accomplish the unaccustomed
ritual of putting on their trews.
Here is Lord Stradbroke in a
very large hat and moustache,
with Lady Stradbroke and Dr.
Basedow. All are huddled in a
very small and dirty Ford which
has braved the sand of the Finke
crossing and the hills of the
Ryan’s Well track. It chugs
steadily but a little uncertainly
towards the decorated police-
station, centre of official and
social life, and the Boong.
The populace forms up in a
dancing-line. The excitement is
intense. The dust suddenly forms
a cloud like a naval smokescreen
and hides the spectacle. The
Arunta equivalent of “Good old
Stradbroke! Hooray for the
Rouses! ” srtiacks against the
stolid blue flank of Mt. Gillen.
And then, as word gets about
that back at the camp the plenty
good-pfeller tucker is about to
be distributed, the populace
sprints in a horde towards the
provender, retrieving, as it goes,
the less-adhesive of its garments
and sundry boomerangs and
nullas which have become
separated from their owners in
the forward rush.
The dogs bark. The weei sing,
A didgeridoo gets under way.
Professor Ewart, /-a large
savant in a city suit and Laming-
ton, who is in the Red Centre
collecting botanical specimens,
adds to the gaiety by walking
round the camp holding his nose
with his left hand and distribut-
ing boiled sweets out of a brown-
paper bag with his right.
At eventide there was a
corroboree round the “nganja”-
stick, which had been set-up
earlier in the day so that the
spirit of the Yam might enter it,
a huge fire having been lit as
night fell to guide him on his
way. Round it every chair, stool
and kerosene-case in Alice
Springs had been set.
The permanent white popula-
tion of six came in the only
motor-lorry the Centre owned.
The Stradbrokes, having dined
on Johnny-cakes at their own
special request, drove with me,
sitting on top of petrol-drums
and gear. The inhabitants of the
Boong and the tribes * arrived
on their own flat, prehensile feet.
The green-room was the outer
darkness, full of tittering actors
and whispering maidens. The
band sat by the fire with its
boomerangs, while the King of
Alice Springs in a felt hat (no
doubt inherited), a coat and
trousers five sizes too large, and
new tan boots (gift of the Gov-
ernment) tended it.
The boomerangs clashed in
rhythm; in came the dancers,
their height exaggerated by their
tall head-dresses, their nakedness
covered only with bands of
colored down and Kopi, their
ingada’s ornate helmet nodding
to give them the time as they
circled the totem with the pre-
cision of a trained ballet. Thump
went their feet in unison, whack
went the boomerangs. The
didgeridoo wailed. The bodies
swung to the music:
Wi be na na
De a re a ja betja.
They called to the Great Spirit
to spread the yam over the
countryside so that all might be
fed.
It was all very impressive,
even a little awe-inspiring in that
vast, natural desert setting as the
sad music rose into a heaven in
which the stars were like hunks
off the Koh-i-noor —that is, until
some visitor decided to take a
photograph.
Alice Springs had never seen a
magnesium-light before. As it
flared, the population—dancers,
dogs, queei and weei —all fell
over itself with a loud howl and
some of it took to the scrub,
while in the distance rose the
protest of the Afghan camel-
drivers whose oonts were per-
versely stampeding.
This was the sign the feast was o’er.
It hushed the merry wassail roar.
The minstrels ceased to sound.
Led by their king, who had
his new boots slung over his
shoulder, his trousers wrapped
round his neck and his battered
cadi full of tucker, all went
home at last, oblivious that a
generation later the busy city of
Alice Springs would stand on that
spot; that one would have to
hunt among teeming new build-
ings to find old Sergeant Stott’s
police-station, which seemed like
an Empire State Building of Cen-
tralia in its day; that the Boong
would be forgotten, the site of
the corroboree occupied by the
Inland Mission radio-centre;
that there would be a railway-
station where I pitched my camp,
and Tuit’s tourists saying, “00,
look at the Afghans!” as a new
and shaven breed of Arunta
whizzed by groggily at live miles
an hour in the very latest product
of the famous factory of Emile
Mercier, “the Rolls-Royce of
New Caledonia.”
2: Albert
I dined a week or so back with
the Minister of a foreign country,
amid all the modest luxury of a
large Point Piper flat. The table
was white French mahogany, the
furniture of pale and lovely
Scandinavian woods, set-off
by the gleam of silver and the
soft sheen of rare ceramics and
bright pictures. There was duck
and there were French wines.
And half-way through the host
said: “You are all coming with
me to Frank Clune’s to meet
Albert.”
And to the mansion of that
strange professional Australian
whose books reviewers eschew,
but who manages to sell them in
tens of thousands without their
help, we went in a large black
motor-car, circling the edges of a
glorious Sydney, lit for the Royal
visit under a rain-drenched sky.
It was not easy to find a place
to park within a quarter of a mile
of the mansion of Clune, for
when that good-hearted prophet
of the raw is hospitable he
spreads his bounty fairly. A
babel came up to us from rooms
stuffed to capacity with the young
and beautiful and the not-so-
young and -beautiful, and when
the doors opened the effect was
overpowering.
The House of Clune is packed
with works of art on a Disraelian
scale and with a Dobellian decor.
Monstrous portraits of Clune in
sulphurous shades glare down
between delicate landscapes.
Relics of Cannibal Islands sit
cheek-by-jowl with priceless
china and glass, and the
trophies of visits to Spain and
Hiroshima. In between all this
treasure were (as they would say
in Alice Springs) “mobs” of
social guests, among whom
waiters in black coats and ties
and waitresses in white starch
moved noiselessly proffering
drinks, oyster-patties and ices
with a lavish hand.
Sitting in an alcove with the
Leader of the Federal Opposi-
tion, Dr. Evatt, who was eating
curry-and-rice, was a rather
dark Arunta, shy and good-
humored, in a blue suit —Albert
Namatjira, who was the guest-
of-honor of the evening. A
Press-photographer sat in front
of him, with his flashlight and
Leica on a stand set-up for per-
manent business. On one side
a queue of young ladies in pink-
and-white evening-dresses, the
daughters and the wives of lead-
ing citizens and foreign diplo-
mats stood ready to take Dr.
Evatt’s envied position and to
be photographed with Albert.
Two and two they sat on either
side of Albert, who seemed, by
his expression, to be a man


HOW
i
can
SP
AND FOR
T"\o you ever stop to think who pays for and owns
JL-, the public services and utilities upon which our
standard of living and way of life are based? ...
Who provides the capital funds to erect new schools,
to complete new hospitals, to extend and re-equip our
railways and other transport systems, to maintain
housing schemes, to construct bridges and roads,
electric power stations and transmission lines, water
storages, irrigation systems and harbours?
They are paid for in the main by the savings of the
people—by those who invest their savings in public
loans such as the Commonwealth 19th Security Loan.
These investors, who, over the years, have provided
millions upon millions of pounds for Australia’s
development, do not represent any particular section
of the community. In thousands of cases, their
individual holdings in Commonwealth Securities
represent small investments.
It is on the continued support of investors like these,
large and small alike, that Australia’s future develop-
ment largely depends. If we are to progress in keeping
with our almost limitless possibilities, the nation’s
productive capital must constantly be increased by
continuous public investment in Commonwealth Loans.
There is no other way in which our great future can
be fully realised.
Every Australian benefits from the success of
Commonwealth Loans, and it is the responsibility and
the privilege of us all to ensure their complete
success. Decide now to invest in the Common-
wealth 19th Security Loan, and put your savings
directly to work for you, and for Australia.
Invest MOW in the
COMMONWEALTH
19th Security LOAN
INVESTORS MAY SELECT
1. Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
m
per annum, issued at par and
maturing on October 15,
1967, or
2. Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
31
per annum, issued at
£9B/10/- per cent, and
maturing on April 15, 1957.
AN INCOME TAX REBATE of 2/-
in each £1 of interest is allowed
for the period during which no
Income Tax is levied under the
law of a State. This rebate in-
creases the effective interest yield
(considerably so in the of
those subject to the higher rates
of Income Tax).
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION for the
longer-term issue is £lO of Bonds
or £lOO of Inscribed Stock. Those
who already own £lOO of Inscribed
Stock may increase their holdings
by multiples of £lO. For the short-
term issue the minimum subscrip-
tion is £l,OOO, with higher amounts
in multiples of £l,OOO, of Bonds
or Inscribed Stock.
10% DEPOSIT will be accepted,
with the balance in either one or
three amounts by June 30, 1954.,
BANKS. SAVINGS BANKS. MONEY
ORDER POST OFFICES OR
STOCKBROKERS will receive appli-
cations for cash subscriptions.
You have only to fill in one simple
form and lodge a cheque or cash.
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury
I9SL4,
awaiting execution, expecting the
bullet to come with every flash.
All the scene needed to make
it perfect was the ghost of old
Sergeant Stott and the wraith
of the youngish constable who
served out trdusers to the wed
in 1924.
On the other side two young
ladies with autograph-books
open waited deferentially, and
on the horizon hovered a pre-
datory band of artistic looties
all eager to talk to Albert about
his theories on art; this despite
the fact that —Heaven knows
how he does without! —Albert
has no theories about art,
scarcely seems to understand
what art is. He considers him-
self a plain citizen, normal in
an Arunta community, who see's
something and paints it because
he wants to, just as his near-
ancestors saw a goanna and ate
it because they wanted to.
While we were contemplating
this spectacle a shout went up
for speeches, and Dr. Evatt, put-
ting down his curry-and-rice,
gracefully obliged, welcoming
Albert in fair and scholarly
words. Albert replied (in a soft
Centralian voice and a diction
which could be copied with ad-
vantage by the A.8.C.) that he
thanked everybody very much.
Then the crowd fell on him, and
for the rest of the evening he
was tossed from group to group,
a good-humored piece of desert
flotsam, the only man in the
place without a glass in his
hand or an appetite for oyster-
patties. It was almost as hard
to get near him as near the
Queen at a Sydney garden-
party. If the general-manager
of the Rural Bank didn’t have
him the general-manager of the
A.B.C. did. And through it all
Albert was courteous, smiling,
but brief and succinct, if not
informative.
It was not astonishing in the
circumstances that I did not
have much conversation with
Albert. A breathless whisper in
my ear when I approached the
Presence warned me that I must
not insult him by speaking
pidgin, since he spoke “beauti-
ful English.”
So he does, though he shows
evidence of having to translate
in the process. Experimenting
by speaking pidgin to him, I
found him quicker in response
and more forthcoming. He
brightened considerably when
the talk veered from Sydney
and the Queen to well-known
figures and places in Centralia,
He seemed then like a man who
had come home. As he gave his
views on Sydney and Civilisa-
tion one had the illusion that
he might be an inhabitant from
Mars whom Frank Clune had
captured—anyone who knows
Clune kpows. that he might get
one any day.
Albert was fazed by the size
and multitudes of the city.
Description of his impressions
was beyond the range of his
simple, manly vocabulary. He
acknowledged that Sydney Har-
bor was a fine sheet of water.
He conceded that round it there
were plenty of lights and motor-
cars. But it was not till I asked
him, in effect, following the
processes of his mind carefully,
what interested him most that
his bright eyes lighted up and
his shoulders squared.
He had, it appeared—in Syd-
ney of all places—seen a most
remarkable bird; one he had
never seen in his native land;
one that caught snakes and sat
on a tree and laughed like billy-
oh! With all the inimitable
vividness of the aboriginal
describing something he has
seen in Nature, with brief
phase and lively gusto, Albert
told me about that fowl, the
marvel of the age.
I deduced that it was called
a kookaburra. There are none
in Central Australia. Albert was
enchanted with it. He would
have liked to take one home
with him. It had made his trip
to Sydney worth while. The
sight of it will be the highlight
of his tales when, with relief,
he sees the long familiar back
of Gillen’s Mountain crawling
across the landscape of his
homeland.


Girl-bride of a Pioneer
An Early-day Aristocrat
2. —Canning Downs to Scotland
ORISBANE was primitive
in those days; a three-
days’ passage from
Sydney. It was repre-
sented by one street,
some official buildings, a tempo-
rary church, a small inn and a
few stores and a jetty.
We were welcomed by my
sister Annie and her husband,
Captain Wickham, R.N.,
Government Resident. They
lived in a cottage on the banks
of the river, built by Patrick
Leslie on return from Scotland:
a lovely spot named Newstead.
Heavy rain set in immediately
on our arrival at Brisbane. Our
heavy luggage, including a piano,
had been placed in a river
steamer for the first 30 miles of
our inland journey. The steamer
was roped to the wharf, and left
for the night by the crew. Dur-
ing the night, the river was
flooded, the portholes were open
and the steamer was under water
in the morning. Fortunately our
goods were insured.
It had been arranged that my
brother-in-law should bring
down our phaeton and four
horses as far as Brisbane, for
our journey, but these floods
upset all such arrangements.
Impatient to get home, we
borrowed Captain Wickham’s
inside-car and set out with two
horses, sleeping the first night at
the wooden house of an old
bachelor friend, who entertained
us most hospitably; my first and
last experience of a primitive
establishment. We had an excel-
lent supper; the first bottle of
champagne, placed too near the
fire, exploded. I had a maid with
me, and a tiny room assigned to
me with every possible comfort.
As I put my feet between the
sheets, I felt something cold, and,
quite aware of the number of
snakes in the district, my cry of
fright was heard by my husband
in the next room. He armed
himself with a stick to kill the
snake, but on investigation we
found that the kind old man
must have arranged my bed him-
self ; the cold object was his
bunch of keys! He had been
travelling - physician to the
Duchess of Sutherland in his
youth. I recollect his fowls,
roosted in the trees around his
wooden house.
Next day we continued our
journey. Rain had ceased, but,
in the absence of roads and
bridges, travelling was very
difficult. We halted at midday
at Ipswich, the last village en
route at the head of navigation
for small steamers. Darkness
came on whilst we were still at
a great distance from the bush
house in which we should rest
for the night, and where we
expected to find the carriage and
horses.
Between us and our resting-
place lay a creek with deep banks
with a crossing, but we first
had to traverse a small dip in
the ground. Once in the bottom
of this dip the side was so steep
and slippery that it was impos-
sible for the horses to keep their
footing sufficiently to move the
carriage. As it happened, that
night a friend was at the little
wooden inn which was our
destination, accompanied by
several more to wish him God-
speed en route for England next
morning. They were all friends
of my husband, and, on hearing
from an avant-courier of our
difficulty, they all turned out to
help us, for the stream was
rapidly rising and it was nearly
dark.
They found me and my maid
standing in the wet grass, with a
red blanket around us, and a
huge umbrella over our heads,
holding a tallow candle brought
by a neighboring shepherd.
By thp time our friends
arrived the flood was so great
it was impossible to cross with
the carriage. I was placed upon
one horse, my maid upon
another, a man at each side of
the saddle, and two more at the
bridle; and so I was escorted
across the rushing stream.
Next day my brother-in-law
arrived with carriage and horses ;
by that time the tracts were
impassable, and rain was still fall-
ing, so we made ourselves
contented in the little house
for several days. One evening,
sitting on the veranda, we sud-
denly heard the distant sounds
of a cornopean, and presently
two friends appeared whose
station was on our side of the
stream and who had heard of our
difficulties. Mr. Mackenzie
played the cornopean and his
friend, George Burgoyne, sang
delightfully, and so our evening
was very cheerful.
By that time we were joined
by two other friends and set out
with four horses, but very soon
found their progress impossible.
Eight oxen were then attached to
the carriage, and with this team
we completed that day’s journey.
A mountain range lay between
us and the high lands to which
we were travelling, the Downs
being 2000 ft. above the sea. The
tracks became not only difficult
but dangerous. The oxen drew
an empty carriage.
I believe I have never been so
tired, either before or since, as
I was at the end of that journey,
but I was young and merry and
thought it all amusing.
Next day, on level roads, the
horses could travel, and we
finished our journey, passing
through miles of wild oats and
purple vetches growing as high
as the wheels of the carriage.
*'• • •
Before describing my new
home, I will note the circum-
stances which led to the occupa-
tion of Canning Downs —Patrick
Leslie, the pioneer.
To encourage the settlement
of the country. Government
offered leases at a nominal rent
to those enterprising colonists
who would “take-up” unoccupied
land and who were termed
“squatters.” The northern
country was absolutely “terra
incognita.” Alan Cunningham,
botanist and scientist, was a
friend of my father; he
led an expedition of explora-
tion to the north, and
deposited a bottle contain-
ing a report upon the range in
the latitude of Moreton Bay, but
he was forbidden to make his
way to the coast lest it might
lead the convicts to attempt to
escape. On his return, he con-
sidered himself ill-treated by the
Government and withheld the
result of his travels.
He came to Vineyard, found
Patrick Leslie engaged to my
sister, and told him: “If you will
go out and follow my marked
treedine, you will find such a
country and river as is not
dreamed of, and make your own
and your brother’s fortunes,”
Patrick followed this advice
and set out with a convict and
a “blackboy” for beyond civilisa-
tion. He travelled over splendid
country, 2000 ft. above the sea;
tended at once to Government
for a lease of fifteen miles of the
River Condamine, and he and
his two brothers travelled like
patriarchs of old, with flocks and
herds and servants, to Canning
Downs.
• • • •
The cottage was built of wood,
painted white and lined with
canvas and pretty room-papers ;
In the first instalment of these early-Australia reminiscences
(in last week’s “Bulletin”) the writer, a granddaughter of
Governor King, gave her impressions of the Parramatta and
Sydney in which she spent her girlhood, up to the time of her
marriage to one of the Leslies who were then pioneering
Queensland’s Darling Downs. The Leslies were sons of William
Leslie of Warthill, Aberdeenshire, Scotland; her husband,
George Farquhar, was /an early Legislative Councillor, represent-
ing, first, Parramatta and later the Darling Downs.
The writer, in this second (concluding) instalment,
describes arriving in Brisbane after voyaging from Sydney, and
then going as a girl-bride to the Leslies’ fine Canning Downs
property, with a visit later to England and to the old Laird in
Scotland, their return to a new, gold-fevered Australia, and
finally a torrid bit of voyaging in a storm-battered ship, with
the mast broken down, the sail dragging overboard, and the
captain drunk.
thoroughly and prettily furnished
and surrounded by a white
veranda.
I had excellent servants, and
a man cook was always employed
in that climate. There was quite
a little colony, and there
were over 200 horses, for
the greater part running un-
enclosed over the station. The
overseer’s house and wool-sheds
were at a distance. In the
absence of hotels, hospitality was
largely practised, rest and
refreshment for all-comers.
I was much occupied in mak-
ing a garden. I had my piano,
another semi-grand Broadwood,
in place of the drowned instru-
ment, brought ninety miles in a
dray upon bags of flour; and I
enjoyed the life, so different from
all experience.
The present town of Warwick
was represented by two slab
houses; one was a public-house,
the other dignified by name of
Court House. Most of the
gentlemen of the district were
justices-of-the-peace, and on the
rare visits of the clergyman,
about once a quarter, divine
service was held in the Court
House.
We always had a service at
the cottage in a small hall on
Sunday, at eleven o’clock, and
several of our neighbors loved
to come for a quiet Sunday, and,
with our employees and friends,
we had quite a good congrega-
tion. On one occasion, a friend’s
child was baptised there ; I stood
proxy for the father’s relation m
England.
With the exception of two or
three home - paddocks, one
devoted to the cultivation of
maize, fifteen miles of the River
Condamine were actually un-
enclosed. Sheep-stations were
established at wide distances
from each other, represented by
a hut and hurdles, two shepherds
and hutkeeper, and two large
flocks of one-thousand, or more,
which were fed in opposite direc-
tions, whilst the hutkeeper’s busi-
ness was to “shift hurdles” daily,
to cook for the shepherds and
watch the flocks by night from a
watch-box to protect them from
the so-called “native dogs.”
The cattle had their different
camps, where they were always
to be found with their calves, and
the horses arranged themselves
in like manner, attaching them-
selves to their birthplace
strangely. I have known a horse.
sold to a friend who lived seventy
miles distant, return to Canning
Downs when he could make his
escape. Then a message would
come: “If you see Sirius, take
care of him for me.” Animals
were brought in for the purpose
of branding the young, or select-
ing fat cattb for sale, or for
“boiling-down.” Friends and
neighbors came to help,, and I
dare say often recollected runs
at home over very different
country.
In some experiences of life on
the Downs, 1848-51, men
required to possess both pluck
and presence of mind. The day’s
work of an active owner of such
a property was a hard one,
requiring all the energy of
capable men to ensure success.
It meant riding early and late,
always on the lookout lest travel-
ling sheep should bring disease
to the flocks, with a great number
of employees especially at
shearing-time—to control; the
shearers travelling from station
to station, sheep-washing, wool-
sorting and -packing and
dispatching the bales in drays
drawn by oxen.
The public-house was a neces-
sity, for otherwise there was not
shelter for many miles for man
or beast, unless at Canning
Downs, but the opportunity it
afforded to the men was at times
very sad in its results. The men
would take their hard-earned
wages and hand the cheque to
the landlord and “drink it out,”
and unprincipled men put
tobacco and other stupefying
agents into the casks of rum. I
recollect my husband taking the
“break” one day to Warwick,
and rescuing several of his
employees in a state of stupor.
Another time, we were roused
early one morning to hear a man
had cut his throat at Warwick.
I recollected the doctor (Who
lived forty miles away) had left
his box of instruments with me.
We found needles and silk, and
my husband went to the poor
man and sewed up his throat and
sent him, lying on a mattress, to
the nearest hospital, some fifty
miles away. He recovered: he
was a stranger.
Snakes abounded; I had a
great fear of them; some were
very deadly and would kill a
horse very rapidly.
I was standing one evening in
a pergola of grapevines, my
hands clasped behind me, I
suddenly felt a sharp prick, and
rushed in to my husband as he
was seated at his writing-table;
“I believe I am bitten by a
snake.” There were the two
tiny drops of blood. His candle
was alight; he seized a bundle
of quill pens with the usual pink
cord around it, and instantly
bound it around my wrist, and,
hi& lancet near, he lanced it. A
black, by chance, was at the
stable; he was called in. He
said it was a big snake, and
sucked the wound. I was not
allowed to sleep that night, but
walked up and down until danger
of stupor was past, stimulants
being administered, and no harm
came of it.
A traveller was brought to my
husband with a finger bitten by a
death - adder. Without a
moment’s hesitation, he picked
up his powder-flask from the
table near-by, and blew off the
finger and saved the man’s life,
who coolly remarked, “Thank
you, sir. It’s a pity it is that
finger, for I am a shoemaker by
trade.”
In the paddock before the
cottage, maize was grown, with
watermelons between the rows,
providing fruit for all hands—
the only fruit available. I have
known my brother shoot twelve-
brace of quail in that paddock
the year it was devoted to oats.
Oats were grown for the stabled
horses, dried with the grain like
hay.
In the corner was a little grave-
yard where already several were
laid ; from old age to infancy.
I hope that spot of earth is still
held sacred. The master read
the funeral service. One sweet
little child was laid there during
my residence.
It was surprising how little a
doctor was required. I once sent
a groom for the doctor, as one
of the maids was suddenly alarm-
ingly ill. He rode too fast; the
mare died on reaching her
destination. When the doctor
arrived he said I had already
done all that was possible, and
the girl was better. He did not
know that I had sent her lover!
He rode my own mare as the
fleetest, and it cost us loss for
no purpose.
There was a great flood whilst
I was there ; the river came down
like a wall of water, and in a
few minutes one could see a
wide, roaring river as far as the
eye could reach. The river was
ordinarily out of sight, like a
wide ditch between two banks, its
course marked by trees on the
banks. My brother and an over-
seer were caught upon the other
side of the now impassable
stream, which carried debris of
every description, logs of wood,
etc. We could see snakes in the
rushing water. I stood at the
edge of the flood and realised
what an inundation meant.
Life was not monotonous
there; the lagoons afforded
sport, if there had been leisure
f6r amusement. Wild duck
abounded, and the great bustard
which they rode down on the
plains. Flocks of wild geese
came at times, migrating. There
were emus and bustards and
numbers of hawks. They looked
like a hive of bees in swarm.
They sat in a row on the fence
of the yard, whilst sheep, and
cattle were killed, waiting for
their feast.
I had a beautiful pet bird, like
a tall stork, called by the
shepherds “native-companion,
pale-grey with a red head. It
followed me about when I was
gardening.
Our domestic arrangements
were unusual. The cottage only
afforded two spare rooms, and
with the chance of six friends
suddenly appearing such accom-
modation was impossible. At the
end of the cottage, parallel to our
own, and divided by a covered


way, the sides and veranda
covered with vines, was a long
building, devoted to servants,
store-room and offices. We had
one very large spare-room, and
six folding-beds, made on the
principle of a long camp-stool
called a stretcher. They were
seldom all unoccupied, and not
infrequently all were in request,
I never knew how many would
appear for dinner.
As everything had to come
from Sydney, carriage was a
serious matter. The drays return-
ing from delivering wool
brought ah supplies. Bottled ale,
in casks, for instance, became
a rare and costly luxury. When
I suggested a hogshead of
draught beer, my husband said,
“Where would you put it? The
servants would find it a terrible
temptation.” I replied, “Have a
small trestle made and stand it
in the corner of the dining-room,
and give me the tap-key.” It
came ; I threw a cloth over it; it
was very much appreciated.
Luxuries were few. We had a
quarter-cask of marsala on tap.
Other wine or spirits were only
for cases of illness.
Until the discovery of gold,
affairs went slowly. There was
not sufficient market for sheep.
Their value was in their wool.
The surplus stock were boiled-
down for tallow. The great
influx of population changed all
that; the value rose rapidly.
There was a period of great
difficulty, for men left their
employment and rushed to the
diggings. We were fortunate to
have a relation in China, who at
once dispatched some Chinese
who proved excellent shepherds
and servants. We also had some
of the young men, sent out as
first-offenders by Lord Ashley,
on ticket-of-leave, which tided us
over this trouble.
Blacks seldom appeared at the
cottage. As the household was
established under a different roof
I was often practically alone.
The French-windows opened to
the ground. One evening I sat
alone, with a large pedestal-lamp,
lighted, on the piano, when sud-
denly a tall blackfellow, a
stranger, came upon the veranda
and stood in the window, staring
at me and the room, a revelation
to him.
I felt rather nervous, but said,
“Where are you from?” By
way of amiable reply, he said
[translated] “Very good, lady.”
Then his eyes fell on the lamp
and he started and looked half-
frightened. “My word! ”he said.
“A great sun has come! ” I said,
“All right, go to kitchen, you get
plenty patter [food],” and ne
willingly departed. I saw no
more of him.
Another visitor was a young
gin, who threw herself down
upon the veranda opposite my
bedroom French-window one
morning, grievously wounded by
blows from a tomahawk. She
would not explain, and perhaps
it was just as well. I got a
mattress and bathed her gashes.
She remained there several days
I made endeavors to converse —
in vain. I had kept the shutters
closed during those days, but
before she left I opened them
and allowed her to look into my
room. 1 had a large swing
mirror on my table, and I sud-
denly turned it upon her. She
cried out, and, monkeylike,
rushed round the table to catch
that rival gin. I never saw her
again. Her wounds healed amaz-
ingly quickly. They would have
half-killed a white woman.
We had one unpleasant experi-
ence soon after I arrived. A
report came one evening that
some strange tribes had come
and carried off a flock of sheep.
Next morning, my husband, my
young brother and a young
sheep-overseer went out, armed,
to recover the sheep. They
found the camp in the scrub,
with the fire still smouldering,
and bones of sheep the blacks
had eaten that night; no sign of
the natives near.
They had imprudently left
their horses outside the scrub,
or jungle. Suddenly a shower cf
native weapons fell amongst
them. They were nearly sur-
rounded.
“Run to the horses,” was the
cry, and my brother dropped his
powder-flask as he ran,
They fired as they dodged from
tree to tree until they reached
the horses, and did not believe
any black was killed. My brother
had to remain at the hut all
night or shepherds and hutkeeper
would have refused to remain,
The blacks walked around the
house shouting and crying part
of the night, but made off before
mornjng, and the bulk of the
flock was brought in by the
friendly Canning Downs tribe
later in the day begging, “Baal,
that not Canning Downs blacks,
that big fellow black Maryland,”
another district.
There had been such an out-
cry at Exeter Hall, extending to
Sydney, regarding cruelty to the
blacks, that an official report of
this incident to the commissioner
of the district was necessary.
There had no doubt been
some cruel cases of poisoning
blacks, ending by the trial and
The impressive entrance to Vineyard, the lovely old Parramatta-side home in
which the writer of these reminiscences spent her girlhood, as depicted by
Hardy Wilson in his “Early Colonial Architecture Vineyard, from where
the writer went as a bride to the Darling Downs, is now the Benedictine
Monastery of Subiaco.
hanging of several white men
in Sydney. At Canning Downs
it was a new experience, though
formerly cattle had been speared
or, worse still, a camp of cattle
had been alarmed and scattered
They smelt the blacks afar off
in a remarkable manner.
The blacks were not allowed
to appear unclothed. They
generally obtained some article
from the men, and the gms had
possum cloaks or some gar-
ment that was given to them.
The rule as to clothing was
stricter near the townships. One
day the Government Resident at
Brisbane found a native chopping
wood near the house without a
garment. “What are you doing
there?” he cried angrily. The
the
lated]. Pont be angry, the
shirt is there, pointing to the
garment reposing on the grass at
some distance.
On one occasion we were
travelling to Brisbane. We sud-
denly found ourselves between
two tribes prepared to fight,
They were blacks from the sea-
coast level. They were hideous;
their naked bodies striped with
red and yellow ochre, and tufts
of feather stuffed into their elf-
locks, carrying native arms—
boomerangs, spears, waddies or
clubs, which, under civilisation,
they had studded with large-
headed nails, making them most
murderous weapons. I was glad
when we lost sight of them. We
heard no more of them.
They were a very harmless
race, unless for their depreda-
tions upon sheep and cattle in
the early days. They appeared
to be void of reasoning powers
and counted by holding up
fingers. -
I was at Canning Downs from
1848 to 1852. Though much
alone, I was never dull. My
husband’s work was certainly
arduous, not only the out-of-door
work, much in the saddle, but
office work in the evenings. I
acted as his secretary, thus find-
ing employment and an insight
into business matters by copying
a large correspondence and
checking bank accounts, etc.
In that climate, men and horses
could sustain great exertion. I
have known my husband ride
ninety miles in one day, he and
his gallant little horse coming
in fresh,
During the first year I only
saw my sister occasionally, but
later I had visits from lady
friends in the district, who came.
long distances. One, especially,
was very welcome; a former
acquaintance, widow of the
Chief Justice of N. S. Wales,
she had joined her son some
forty miles from us An accom-
plished pianist, and charming
person, and, with George
Burgoyne s splendid voice, we
had some delightful evenings.
We went, on one occasion, to
visit the Commissioner of a dis-
tact at Toowoomba, w bere races
won ffie MaiLn Xt
won the> i
horse had a history. He was so id
and was stolen fromToolburra
by the notori&s bushranger
Wilson, who was actually shot
whilst riding Cap-a-pie and
endeavoring to escape from the
mounted police.
As soon as franchise was
granted to Queensland my
husband was elected member for
the district, and as years of hard
work were beginning to tell upon
his health I was glad we had to
go to Sydney to attend the Legis-
lative Council, \ I left in high
spirits at the prospect, and bid
good-bye to my parents [who
had by then moved to Queens-
land] as we passed the cottage
in which they were established
near my sister at Goomburra. 1
little imagined that I should
never return to the place I
counted as my home for life, or
that I should never again see that
dear mother in life,
We had a warm welcome on
our arrival in Sydney. Govern-
ment House was always open to
me.
All went well until Christmas
Eve, when the blow fell which
changed my whole life, and I
left my happy careless youth for
ever. My husband became sud-
denly dangerously ill, and on
partial recovery he was ordered
a voyage forthwith for a year s
rest.
We embarked in the chpper-
ship Vimiers, over 2000 tons,
carrying wool and one of the
earliest exports of gold, 300
invalid soldiers from New
Zealand, with their officer.
Major Laye, his wife and
children, with other passengers.
My uncle, Admiral King, had
warned us to provide against
extreme cold on rounding Cape
Horn. As he had surveyed the
Straits of Magellan, he was
qualified to advise.
We lined our cabin with China-
matting ; only one fire on board,
in the cooking department, I
shall never forget that cold.
Sails were taken in at night lest
the ropes should be frozen
beyond control.
The death of Major Laye’s
only little girl was very sad.
Nothing can be much more
impressive than a funeral at sea.
The captain read the service.
We encountered a heavy gale
off the Falkland Islands, dead-
lights in for several days. We
had one excitement when on the
Line and nearly becalmed. A
sail appeared on the horizon,
proving to be a brig which
always crept nearer during the
day, and at dusk came so close
as to compel our captain to hail
her.
I had asked, during the day,
why the men on the lower-deck
were cleaning firearms. I was
told it was usual to do so once on
the voyage.
The mystery surrounding that
vessel was never cleared up.
When dusk fell the captain sent
word to all the passengers to put
lights in their cabins, and to
come on deck. The strangers
showed no lights whatever. By
that time, the brig had come
within hailing distance.
AH on board the Vimiers were
requested to place themselves at
the side of the ship. Our captain
was one of the most experienced
commanders of Australian
passenger-ships. He used a
speaking trumpet: “Ship ahoy! ”
Response: “Ship ahoy! ”
Captain: “What ship are you?”
In reply: “To Barbados, with
sugar cargo. Where do you come
f rom ? Where bound ? ”
Captain; “Ship, Vimiers, Sydney
to London, carrying her
Majesty’s troops.”
The black ship, without lights,
departed, and the incident closed.
Our captain was conscious that
we were becalmed in the direct
route with a very large cargo
of gold on board.
The captain held divine service
on the quarter-deck each Sunday.
To me it was an impressive
service, realising, as a speck upon
that wide ocean, man’s utter
impotence, and the Almighty’s
power which Was our protection.
When off the Isle of Wight,
still out of sight of land, a pilot
boarded us. The loveliness of
the Isle of Wight after ninety
days out of sight of land was
too refreshing Jor words. 0
We attended church on Sun-
day, when the good complexions
of the women struck me. I had
never seen the like in any coun-
try. In the afternoon we drove
to the Barracks to call on Henry
Chester Master to give news of
his brother Robert, and on to
the Marine Barracks where my
aunt’s husband, General Dela-
combe, was in command.
Next day to London —my first
experience of a railway journey,
which I enjoyed. I was struck
by the universal cultivation and
the hedges in spring beauty. I
thought the trees very low; I
had not realised their girth com-
pared with Australian trees. I
have since learned to appreciate
them.
In London we were rushed
about every day to some place
of interest. The opera delighted
me, the crowds astonished. The
cathedrals surpassed all my ex-
pectations. Many old friends
appeared who had known me at
Vineyard. My husband’s rela-
tions, the Farquhars, sought us
and were most kind.
As soon as possible we
travelled to Aberdeenshire. Rail
only extended to Aberdeen.
Patrick Davidson and his wife
took us thirty miles in their
carriage to Drum Rossie, where
my husband had the joy of find-
ing his parents alive and well.
I might fill pages with descrip-
tions of the happy times we
spent there, for on William’s
marriage the Laird retired to
Drum Rossie, leaving Warthill
to the young couple. They were
living at Kinbroom, as Warthill
was in the hands of workmen.
Life in Scotland was primi-
tive, and altogether new to me ;
the servants and tenants so de-
voted. Dinner at five o’clock
was the fashion; high tea at
seven. We drove seven miles
to the Episcopal Chapel at
Meiklefolls. It was very like a
barn; the Laird had a high,
shut-in pew. The congregation
sat fob hymns and stood for
prayers. When the sermon be-
gan the elders sent a long pole
with a little box at the end along
the pew for the penny.
I enjoyed visiting the old
tenants. The family consisted
of Mr. and Mrs. Leslie and
their unmarried daughter. We
visited about a good deal in
the county, my husband renew-
ing old friendships and associa-
tions. The old castles in-
terested me much, notably Fyvie
0 Continued on page 31)


i
is
'fake
f4KT&
-
m
m
m
.0 \
wwMj"
BI9H3HIS
X96BD-8.53
KUV mom SAFE)
SANDERS
(^FILES
Correspondence. tovol c o %1
•latomont*. ole.. filed in the
"Sanders” con be Mcunlf
bound and coovertfd Into a
ported book of reference at
(ho end of «ach iLMtb —at
on T other ported.
rftmmt u< imr-
Ul«r lßf«nH«llM
•ppiiMUaa
Jackson & O’Suluvan Pty. Lra
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent* —
MELBOURNE .. Roman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Pardon A Sona Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
(p
S£MSAT/omi
BATTERY IMPROVEMENT
Willaad
SAFETY-
FILL
*
n
'*' i
d
C03
NO
INCREASE
IN COST!
First in Australia! The genuine Willard Safety-Fill feature
is the simplest, most accurate principle developed to
prevent overfilling and the resulting acid spray which
can cause dangerous corrosion!
4A
WRITE FOR FREE FOLDER. Send now for your copy of
the “Safety-Fill'* folder that tells about tbe exclusive
Willard Safety-Fill battery-WRITE NOW!
w
Willard
WILLARD STORAGE BATTERY CO. of AUST. PTY. LTD.
160 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS
As anticipated on this page
last week, top-class galloper Sil-
ver Phantom improved quickly
to re-enter the winning-list, and
to such purpose that his time
for the Canterbury Flying was
which equalled the course
record for 1\ furlongs. He now
is favorite for the Doncaster,
having supplanted Birdwood,
who had become first choice
following the Oakleigh Plate and
Newmarket victories.
•.• * • #
Silver Phantom carried 9.3 at
Canterbury and drops to 8.10 in
the Doncaster. Birdwood’s
penalty for his latest successes
brought his weight to 8.9, and
maybe he is rather close to the
dashing grey, but he retains his
splendid condition. Silver Phan-
tom is expected to have at least
one more outing before compet-
ing in the big Easter mile at
Randwick.
Three-year-old filly Fragrant
Air, carrying the colors of New-
castle businessman N. Chiplin,
won her first race when she
started favorite for the Canter-
bury Maiden and go there with
a dashing finish over the final
furlong. She is trained by Jack
Miller, who experienced a
change of luck, as his prior
winner was stayer Silver Buzz,
who won the 1950 Brisbane
Cup, and in December, 1951, a
Randwick event. Fragrant Air
was first past the winning-post
in a Hawkesbury Maiden last
October, but lost the race on
protest to Flying East. She is
by Bois de Rose (imp.) from
Good Form by Harinero (imp,).
New Zealanders Royal Visit
and Peter Willonyx had their
first Australian outings when
they competed in the Canter
bury Highweight Handicap, bu
neither was equal to a place
However, it was the first run
they had had for some time, par-
ticularly Peter Willonyx, who
hadn’t sported silk since October
last. Royal Visit might prove
the better of the pair, and an
improvement in the form of
both seems not far distant.
Royal Visit won a mile event
at Auckland in January.
Brisbane jockey Noel Best
made a special visit'to Sydney
to pilot Brisbane-trained The
Knob in the Two-year-old
Handicap at Canterbury, but the
colt let him down badly and
finished seventh, at no stage look-
ing like a winner. Best also rode
Gay Venice, owned and trained
by Brisbane mentor Bert
Hornery, in the Campsie Stakes,
but she also ran a poor race.
The Knob won three races in
Brisbane before coming to
Sydney, but form shown on the
present visit has been modest.
Lindbergh, winner of the Canter-
bury race, is a top-class youngster
with two wins and two seconds
from four starts to his credit. He
won the A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate
at his first race-start; his next
important engagement will be
the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
at Easter. In the meantime he
may be given another race or
two.
• • • •
It would appear that Mel-
bourne is not at the moment
strong in sprinting talent. Bird-
wood won the Oakleigh Plate-
Newmarket double, while at
Moonee Valley last Saturday
Coulper defeated Cultured (both
from Sydney) in the First Wood-
lands Handicap. Last year
Cultured cleared out with the
V.R.C. Newmarket. Now trained
in Melbourne by R. P, Trihey (of
Regular Bachelor fame), Coul-
per upset a plunge on Cultured,
• • « •
Prairie Dance, winner of the
Moonee Valley Hollymount
Handicap for two-year-olds, has
won twice and been second twice
from fpur starts. He added one
more success to trainer Fred
Hoysted’s formidable list of two-
year-old wins, and, as usual,
“Keep your guard up next round and Watch my left
hand, and don't forget to bring over that right"
jockey Bill Williamson was in
the saddle. It was his 45th
winner for the season. Prairie
Dance carried topweight. The
colt is by the imported sire
Nebris from Western Lady by
St. Magnus. His pedigree
includes Similar, a winner of the
Australian Gup, and Minerval, a
Winner of the Auckland Cup.
Melbourne three - year - old
Gold Milla has proved a thorn
in the sides of bookmakers, and
his backers at Moonee Valley
took more money from the
fielders’ bags when he started
favorite for the Moonee Ponds
Handicap and had an easy win,
his second in as many starts. The
colt, by High Peak (imp.) from
Why Hurry, is owned and trained
by R. Roach. He has had 10
starts this season and his only
non-placing was in the Victoria
Derby, which was too far for
him.
• • • •
Had Darby Munro been de-
feated on heavily-backed Sydney
galloper Gallant Archer in the
Moonee Valley £5150 Alister
Clark Stakes he would have
been criticised for having taken
the horse to the front so soon
after moving sharply from the
rear of the field, but his tactics
came off, and he won the *ace
in brilliant style. Actually, he
started his winning run on Gal-
lant Archer about five,furlongs
from home.
* * f
Gallant Archer has now
started in 42 races for 11 wins,
five seconds and six thirds. He
has won three times from his
last four Melbourne starts. A
mile and a quarter is Gallant
Archer’s pet distance. He has
won seven events at 10 furlongs,
in all of them ridden by Munro.
• * • •
Bred at Ellerton Lodge stud,
South Australia, Third Dimen-
sion, winner of the V.R.C. Gibson
Carmichael Stakes, is a son of
an imported sire, Nebris, and
from an imported mare, Gretta.
Nebris, by Big Game, won races
in England. His dam, Fara, was
4 sister to two noted sires. Pharos
and Fairway. Gretta is a daugh-
ter of Sir Cosmo and Egret by
Flamingo.
•
Borough Vale and Borough
Maid, two brood mares located
at A. H. Maguire’s Kialla stud,
Greenmount (Q.), had winners
in different States last Saturday.
The first-named is dam of Casa,
who scored at Canterbury, while
Borough Maid is dam of Bris-
bane (Albion Park) Third
Maiden winner. Accommodate.
Casa, an effortless winner
at Canterbury, had won in Bris-
bane early this season. His dam
is an Emborough (imp.) mare
from Cabin Vale by Monash
Valley and traces back to Gozo.
Borough Maid, dam of
Accommodate, also is an
Emborough (imp.) mare, from
Rebel Maid by Windbag, and
going back to Wallace, son of
Carbine.
Should the Victorian Race-
horse Owners’ Association carry
out its proposal to withhold
nominations until its claims are
met, Melbourne racing could be
seriously interrupted. It will
be interesting to see the outcome
of the protest against the Vic-
torian Government’s grab from
totalisators, its failure to relieve
racing of the entertainments
tax, and to eliminate the winning-
bets tax. Certainly heavy taxa-
tion is forcing many men to give
up racing.
• • * •
Sydney’s brilliant pacer Van
Hall won his 13th race from 14
starts when he scored in the first
heat of the Victoria Derby at
Melbourne Showground last
Saturday night. The colt was
flown to Melbourne on Friday,
so the air-trip didn’t unsettle
him. Match Point, another top-
ranking Sydney colt, won the
second heat and set a race-
record with a mile rate of
2min. 12secs.
* * *
Queenslander Hec Hogan, the
fastest Australian there’s been so
far, set new Australian 100yds.
time (9.3 sec.) in a special run
at a mixed meeting at Sydney
Sports Ground on Saturday.
He’d also done the previous-best
time by an Australian (9,5 sec.).
The 9.3 equals the present
world’s record, set by American
Mel Patton. For this run in
Sydney Hogan had to forgo the
certainty of winning his fourth
Queensland 100yds. title, which
was contested for the same day.
♦ * *
“Kooyong”: South Africa
won the tennis rubber from Aus-
tralia, winning the last three
“Tests.” They won the fourth,
in Adelaide, comfortably, and
“whitewashed” Australia in the
fifth, in Perth last weekend.
Australia didn’t play its top-
liners, apart from Hartwig in
the first (drawn through rain,
with S’Africa leading) and Hoad
and Rosewall in the third. The
visitors (men and women) did a
fine job, but such Tests should
not be played in future unless
it’s seen to beforehand that Aus-
tralia can field its strongest
teams.
* * *
“Bunda”: Bundaberg, whence
came Hinkler and Don Tallon,
looks to have produced another
star. This is 14-year-old girl
swimmer Jan Grier, who’s been
picked to go to Vancouver for
the Empire Games, with a good
chance of winning the 220yds.
breaststroke. Jan’s parents were
both well-known swimmers. As
Dorothy Thompson, her mother
swam for Australia at the 1928
Olympics at Amsterdam.
Claimed to be the first time the
daughter of an Olympian has
also won representative honors.
* * ♦
Of the southpaw persuasion
—a speedy and very promising
specimen, too —Norm Jones
(9.12) stopped Ray Coleman
(9.7£) at Leichhardt. It was a
solid testing of the ex-amateur
who represented Australia at the
1952 Helsinki Olympics, but he
did the job like a tradesman.
Anyway, Ray had had enough of
him by the eleventh round.


After a while he muttered. It s
a wonder he didn’t pass the plate
round.” A little later, he
thought, “He’s an old woman if
ever there was one.”
After thinking of Leppington
and his remarks for about half
an hour, he decided he would go
down and have a spot to cheer
him up. He had a couple of
beers, heard a few jokes, made a
few of his customary remarks,
then, feeling much better, he set
off for home.
TN the kitchen he greeted his
wife affably with a hearty
pinch.
“Don’t you try to make up to
me. Win Carter,” she said sourly.
“I’ve been thinking about
you,” he said quietly, flopping
into the old armchair and remov-
ing his shoes. “What you need
is some dispersion. Now I have
a nice set of lady’s clubs-—l’ll
give you some lessons if you like.
In the backyard first,” he added
quickly,
“How d’you think those
snobby associates’d like playing
with me ?” she demanded.
“They’re all very polite to me,
but I know very well they think
my place is in the supper-room,
or wherever all the work is.
Every time they look at me they
think of the time you did the
sanitary carting.”
“Is there any need to be
odorous?” asked Win, grinning
broadly. He was astounded
when she burst into tears.
“There, there, old girl,” he said,
selfconsciously patting her on
her shaking shoulders. “That’s
all past. And I’m damn’ sure the
men don’t think any the less of
me for preferring the job to the
dole. Any rate, what’s a pocket
for, if you can’t give your pride
a rest in it occasionally?”
“It’s different for you,” she
said, “because you’ve always
been popular with your jokes and
golf. But it’d take more than
that to make the women forget. ’
“You mean you can’t forget,”
said Win, rather sadly. “Look
here, you need a holiday,” he
said on a sudden inspiration.
“I don’t. What I need is this
place fixed up, and you could
afford it, if you gave up golf for
a while and going to the hotel.”
“What?” he breathed, aghast.
“A man might as well be dead.”
“That’s what I’m beginning to
think,” she said bitterly. “Your
dinner is in the oven,” she added
in a low tone, and left the room.
He did not see her till he was
about to leave for work again.
She was sitting on the side
veranda, looking over at the
Milligan mansion.
“Look here,” he said, “I’ll go
and see Tim right away, if you’re
so set on it. What did Coombes
say?”
“I haven’t seen Coombes,” she
said without interest.
Win looked very annoyed.
“The cow said he was coming up
right away, and that was nine
this morning. I told him to
come up and see what you
wanted done.”
She stirred, wresting her eyes
away from the home where
Minnie was “lording it.” “Well,
he didn’t come,” she said, thaw-
ing a little.
“I’ll try and ' find him this
arvo,” he promised. “S’long.”
“Mm,” she said, without any
interest. He looked at her
intently for a moment, and then
thoughtfully set off for his shop.
The afternoon went by very
slowly. He could not settle down
to his work on the cedar chest,
so did various odd jobs; then
about half-past three he decided
he would go down and see Tim.
Tim was sitting in his cubicle
of an office scrawling out
accounts. With relief he threw
down his pen, splattering ink
everywhere. “Thank God some-
one’s come to put me out of my
misery,” he said. “If there’s one
job I detest it’s making-up
accounts.”
“What’s the use of it?”
inquired Win, in a dispirited tone.
The honest coves’ll pay up in
any case; and the others
wouldn’t even if you sent them
a bluey.”
Tim looked at him curiously.
“You’re not looking your usual.
Not off your game all of a
sudden, are you?”
“The missus is on to me about
the house.”
Tim laughed jovially. “Is that
all! Why, every second woman
in the town is at the same game.
Give them one thing, and they
want something else ‘to go with
it.’ ”
Win was not amused. “I was
looking about me on my way
down here, and every second
person seems to have a new
home. Kids who were going to
school a few days ago are living
in mansions now.” He sighed.
“It’s no wonder the missus’s told
me flat that the house has got to
be fixed up.”
As he spoke there came to him
one of those mysterious flash-
backs which come unexpectedly
to everyone. On a fulgurant
slide appeared the home of
Mary’s parents, an unpretentious
but comfortable home with
brown shutters folded back dis-
creetly against her white stone
walls. He said jerkily: “Well,
Tim, when’ll you be up?” All
the joviality disappeared from
big Tim’s face. He stretched out
a languid hand for his desk
calendar. “Um . . . ahh ...”
he said, flipping over leaves so
that the shaft of light which
fell on his desk was instantly
thronged with dust motes. Peer-
ing at the date. Win cried out,
“Now, don’t try to put me off
till August. What are you going
to do between now and August ;
think about it? I don’t want
anything that flash! ”
“I’m a busy man,” began Tim:
but Win interrupted, “Now look
here, Tim, it won’t hurt you to
go up and look at the place
tomorrow.”
Tim became gloomy. “Well,
if you want to know,” he said
reluctantly, “I don’t think I can
do anything to. improve it. If I
start monkeying around with it.
I’ll have it falling around my
blasted ears. I wouldn’t be sur-
prised if it’s only the creepers
that are holding it together.”
Glancing at Win, he found
such incredulity on his face that
he became more uncomfortable.
He muttered, “That house’s been
there ever since I can remember.
It’s not worth a razoo, really.”
“Razoo! The insurance
policy is for five-hundred
pounds, and there was no quib-
bling about it, let me tell you! ”
“Well, then, the best thing
you could do is to put a match
to it.”
“What sort of a man do you
think I am?” demanded Win,
angrily.
“Good time now,” commented
Tim, considering the proposition
with increasing interest. “While
the fire-brigade’s down the
South Coast at their sports, or
whatever it is they’re at.”
“I haven’t done anything dis-
honorable in my life, and I’m
not starting now at my age,”
Win yelled, springing to his feet.
It was the first time in years
that Tim had seen him drawn to
his full height. “Your morals
are as warped as the hardwood
you’re using for these ~ .-
mansions you’re rigging up all
over the countryside,” he said
wrathfully. In two strides he
was out the door, which, dis-
lodged from its precarious catch
by his tempestuous tread, fell
shut with a violence which made
the immediate wall shudder. A
big saw, which Tim had leaded
negligently against a chair, fell
and bounced clatteringly on the
uncovered floor.
/'AUTSIDE the door. Win col-
lided with a surprised lad
who was leaning on the shafts of
a billycart filled with scantling.
Recognising young Coombes,
Win snapped, “If I catch you
around my place again, I’ll tan
your hide.” His angry eyes
darted a glance at the billycart.
“Pilfering again, I see.”
“Mr. Strong said I. . . ”
“And you can tell your father
from me that he’s not getting that
rat-box from me till he goes up
and sees to my wiring,” Without
another glance at the boy, he set
off at such a speed that the
Presbyterian minister, working
in the manse garden, called out,
“Mr. Beeby, just a minute!”
thinking he was the energetic
schoolmaster at his self-imposed
physical training.
“That’s Mr. Carter,” called
young Coombes. “Dinkum it is,”
he said when the minister stared
at him unbelievingly. “He jist
had a corker row wiv old Tim
Strong about his house.” Lost in
reverie, he at once resembled
his father, which was remark-
able, because he was supposed
to have his maternal great-
grandfather’s nose, a grand-
mother’s chin, an uncle’s eyes,
and Great-aunt Mary’s buck-
teeth. “You know,” he said at
last, “there was a dreadful thump
in there,” nodding at the joinery
works. “A stinking big wallop
just like there’d be if old Tim
suddenly fell down cold on the
floor.” He licked his lips, and
turned his innocent eyes to the
astounded minister. “Maybe
d’you think now Mr. Carter
might have knocked old Tim
cold?” A lascivious yearning
for excitement slurred his words
with the copious saliva of desire.
The man looked at him with
distaste. Then he glanced at the
joinery door. “I think not,” he
said dryly. “There is Mr.
Strong.” He turned back to his
gardening.
“Got a comb, mate?”
Win cut across the paddocks,
and within ten minutes came in
sight of his house. Miserably he
thought, “It’s not much, I
suppose. But it’s funny how a
bloke gets dug in.” When he
reached the back veranda, his
glazed glance fell by chance on
a rotting flooring board and he
bent to examine it. He poked
his horny nail into it and the
wood parted like bread, receiving
his finger with a cushiony resili-
ence which appalled him. He
tried some more boards. They
were the same. As he prodded
the fourth board, the trembling
plaint that was Mrs. Loveday’s
ordinary speaking voice fell on
his ears like a damp sponge. He
had a brief respite from his
distress as he thought, “She’s the
droopiest human I’ve ever set
eyes on. She needs an uplift for
more than her bosom.”
“Men are all the same, my
dear,” Mrs. Loveday was
lamenting. “They come to you
with all sorts of rosy plans and
farfetched promises of what
they’ll do for you, and what do
you get, my dear? After thirty
years, you’re generally still wait-
ing, It’d be sad, my dear, if they
felt the same disappointment as
we women do—but they don’t.
Rest assured, they don’t, my
dear. Cook them three good
meals a day, my dear ; go to
bed with them —never complain
—don’t ask for more money, and
they’d be happy in a rabbit-
hutch, my dear. And it’s no use
saying they wouldn’t. A rabbit-
hutch would just suit them down
to the ground,” the sad voice
concluded, “because there
wouldn’t be so many odd jobs
for them to do, my dear.”
“I can’t help feeling sorry for
Win,” said his wife in her low,
pleasant voice. “I think he is
often sorry he sold the farm
now they’re getting such a price
for timber. But it seemed the
best thing to do then, and no
one was to know that in less than
fifteen years those places right
out there would be worth a little
fortune. But it is hard on him
to see Mr. Tibkins driving around
in that beautiful car. The
pioneers did all the hard work,
but most of them have missed
out on the reward. It’s hard on
a man to make the decisions.”
“That’s life, my dear. A man
makes the decisions and the
woman has to abide by them.
You’re too soft with him, my
dear. You make too many
excuses for him. That’ll get you
nowhere. Now I’ve nothing
against Mr. Carter. He’s all right
as far as men go, but unless you
keep at him he’ll let you live in
this [a most expressive “this”]
till the day you die. Now, my
dear, just you gather up your
courage, and have a good straight
talk and don’t take ‘No’ for an
answer. That’s my advice, my
dear. Don’t take ‘No’ for an
answer. You’ll have to prise him
out just like a snail from its
shell.”
A chair scraped, and, like a
squirrel darting to its arbor. Win
leapt for the toolshed. Pressed in
against the rakes and spades he
waited till he was sure Mrs
Loveday was well on her way
home. Then he entered the
house with the trepidation of a
lodger who apprehends notice to
quit. He hung his hat on the
hook, and, sitting down, asked,
“Did Coombes come?”
“No.”
“I didn’t catch sight of him,
but I told that good-for-nothing
son of his to give him a message.
I don’t suppose he’ll give it a
second thought. I might’ go
round this evening and see him.”
She was sitting in the old
rocking-chair, tilting slowly
backwards and forwards. At
last she asked quietly, “Did you
see Tim?”
“Yes.” He untied his other
boot and loosened the laces
slowly. “He said the place wasn’t
worth repairing.” The rocking-
chair began to creak as it always
did when moved briskly. “You
can always depend on your
friends, can’t you?” she said
with a strange intonation.
“After all Tim is a Mason.” She
rose from the chair. “I’m going
up to Bora with Mr. and Mrs.
Leppington to a bazaar, so I’ll
go-and get ready. Your tea is
on top of the saucepan.”
A LL the time he was eating,
_ he thought of her insinua-
tion that he had connived with
Tim against her. He piled the
dishes up and shoved them to
the end of the table, and with-
out pausing to roll his usual
cigarette he went towards the
bedroom ; but as he reached the
door he heard a car pull up.
“I’m coming,” she called
through the front window, and
a moment later she passed him
on her way to the veranda.
“We’ll be home about eleven,
Mr. Leppington thinks,” she
murmured, and without a good-
night or a backward glance she
was gone.
This was the first time in many
years that Win had been left
alone in the house at night, and
he was surprised to find that he
did not want to go back inside:
but when the darkness came he
left the veranda and went back
Jto the kitchen, where he sat in
front of the gleaming stove. He
regarded it with affection.
“Whoever heard of a bloke com-
ing home and sitting in front of
an electric stove!” he thought
derisively. Just then there was
a fizzing in the ceiling and the
light went out.
“Curse it,” he cried. He went
out to the switchboard, and light-
ing a match peered into the fuse-
box. Yes, it was gone again, all
right. He decided he would go
straight over and tell Coombes
what he thought of him. He
slammed the front door and set-
off.
It was a mild, still night, but
down on the Recreation Ground
the mist already lay like
shredded coconut, and along the
creek a vapor glistened in the
faint light from the stars. At
Coombes’s gate, Win collided for
the second time that day with
Charles Coombes. This time the
lad was pushing his bike, a
square box balanced on the
handlebars, from one of which
was suspended a tin in which
liquid lapped eagerly. There
was a strong smell of petrol,
“And what mischief are you
up to now?” demanded Win,
suspiciously.
“It’s Mr. Carter, is it?” in-
quired Charles in dulcet tones.
“Yes, it is Mr. Carter,”
mumbled Win. “And what are
you up to now? Have you been
pinching your father’s petrol?”
“I’ve been cleaning me bike.
Gee, she was a reg’lar grease-
trap.”
Win turned away, and started
up the path.
“No one’s in,” said Charlie.
“Mum’s at the P. and C. meet-
ing, and Pop’s down at the office.
I told him what you said, Mr.
Carter, and he’ll be round to-
morrow.”
“Is that sol” said Win, sar-
castically. “Well, I’ll just go
down and see him now to make
sure he doesn’t forget.”
He went back to the footpath,
young Coombes at his side. “Is
Mrs. Carter’s sister sick?” asked
Charles, obviously hopeful. Win,
surprised, asked: “What do you
mean, is she sick? Who said she
was sick?”
“Heck, no one But I saw the
parson pick up Mrs. Carter and
they headed towards Bora, so I
thought maybe she was sick,
like.”
“Well, she isn’t sick, like,”
mumbled Win, disgusted. “Now
get out of my way. I’m going
down to see your father.”
Win found Coombes’s office
unlighted and locked. After a
few moments of cogitation, he
decided he might as well go
through his “Book.” It was six
months since he had looked at it
for the purpose of estimating
overdue accounts, and he was
surprised to find just how much
money was involved.
“That’ll just show you,” he
thought, gazing incredulously at
the row of figures he had jotted
down. £114! He decided he
would send out some bills.
“With a stiff note.”
TT was just after nine-thirty
-*• when the fire-bell clanged
furiously. Dropping his pen.
Win hurried to the door and
looked outside. All along the
street people appeared at door-
ways and on balconies, and even
Mrs. Millicent Hubbard, who
made an inflexible rule never
to open her shop-door between
7 p.m. and 8 a.m., now
appeared in an oblong of blue
light which moulded her volup-
tuous figure as lovingly and
faithfully as aspic enfolds a fowl.
Everyone watched Burney
Cowan, the sole remaining
member of the regular brigade,
running down the road.
There was an ear-splitting
hullabaloo from the fire-station ;
and then the fire-engine, polished
{Continued on page 35)


GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAUtER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD. SCOTCH I
\ WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK, /
\ SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY, /j
aw.156,1*
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values -are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
X.
Only a mighty
mill such as this
can achieve the
dense, smooth
surface perfection
of Control
“Superfin” Sheets.
John Lysoght (Australia) Pfy.
Limited General Sales Agents.
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and
at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane,
Fremantle, Wellington, N.Z.
i* a y*
fcfi.rtf.
division
WSAGHT
OF
pty.
limited
CR7-53
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MONTGOMERY ON EUROPE
Field - Marshal Montgomery,
Deputy Supreme Allied Com-
mander in Europe, lately gave a
“U.S. News and World Report”
interviewer a very brisk account
of his views on Europe and its
defence. The interview, here
condensed, makes an interesting
supplement to the views of
General Twining, Chief-of-Staff,
U.S. Air Force, published here
last week.
Atomic Weapons
“The effect of the atomic
weapon today is an imponder-
able. Nobody can say that the
atomic weapon has proved that
we can do with less forces. Not
yet. That has not been proved.
There have been no atomic
weapons used in the active
theatre of war today—Korea,
Indo-China, Malaya where
fighting has been going on.
“As for information about
atomic weapons, the fighting man
—take myself or any fighting
man —he doesn’t want to know
the technical details, the know-
how, He’s not interested in that.
What he wants to know is
whether that thing is available
to him. Whether it’s a bomb or
a guided-missile or a rocket, he
wants to be certain atomic
weapons are available to him and
that the means of delivery of
those weapons exist. He’s not
interested in whether you’ve got
5000 or 2000 or whatever it is;
we have to work out the
machinery to ensure that the
thing can be delivered quickly
when it’s wanted.
“We opened a school at
Oberammergau last spring for
officers of certain rank from
various nations to receive instruc-
tion in atomic protection. They
study protection not only from
enemy use of atomic weapons
but when we use them, to make
certain we don’t get the back-
wash. The training-approach to
the use of the atomic weapon is
all going on,
“If I were to engage in a
rough-house in Europe, I would
like to know that I should be
backed by atomic power. We’re
not counting on war coming
along tomorrow, but personally
I hope that if anyone attacked us
we would use everything we had
at the outset. The talked-of ban-
ning of atomic weapons is a poli-
tical matter, but I think you can
assume, if a war starts, that both
sides, if they have got atomic
weapons, will use them. That’s
my view, my personal view,
“Sometime this year, I think,
we shall know to. what extent
atomic weapons will affect the
size and organisation of our
defence forces in Europe.
West Europe Defence
“To consider the defence of
Western Europe against the
threat from the East, you’ve got
to go back to the days in 1948
when the Western Alliance was
formed. In those days, if the
East had wanted to attack the
West —I don’t say they did want
to, but supposing they did —
there wouldn’t have been very
much in the West to stpp it.
“The task given us in the
Western-Alliance days, and
carried on when the Western
Alliance was absorbed into Nato,
was to build up military strength
quickly. There were three
reasons for it. The first was to
have a deterrent against war.
The second was to have some-
thing available if anybody
attacked us. The third was to
give confidence to the nations of
Europe that we could handle an
aggressor,
“I’d say that today, 1954 —
that’s about five years—that task
has largely been achieved. There
has been no war. The deterrent
build-up for war has paid a
dividend.
“Now, as the forces grew and
grew, the Supreme Commanders
—starting with Ike, then
Ridgway, Gruenther they
rather handed over to me the
sharpening of this weapon. To-
day, the weapon may not be as
big as we want it, but it’s pretty
sharp. It’s a sharp' sword on the
ground, and backed by air-
power. Any aggressor five years
ago would have had a walkover.
Today he would not. It would
be a bit of a ‘party’ today.
“I’m not prepared to say that
the Russians could not reach this
line or that line in Western
Europe. That’s a dangerous
statement. The aim is to stop
them before they could occupy
the peoples and territory of the
Nato nations. How many weeks
or months we could hold them,
and when we could start driving
them back, is another question.
That would depend on the state
of our reserve forces.
Importance of Reserves
“While the outcome [of war]
always depends on generalship,
it depends just as much on: ‘ls
the weapon adequate, big
enough, to handle this avalanche
that might come at you?’
“I think that today we have
reached the stage where the final
Los Angeles "Mirror"
THE SAME KEY FITS THEM ALL
outcome depends also on the
extent to. which nations can
spring to arms behind the battle,
and move-up their reserves. If
they cannot spring to arms
quickly, what you’ve got out in
front can’t last for ever without
reinforcement. The Nato forces
we have built can assure time
for our nations to spring to arms
and get mobilised. Our fate, if
war comes, now depends on that
—how fast and how effectively
can reserves be thrown in.
“In the last five years we have
definitely built-up a deterrent.
There has been no war, and any-
one who wanted to attack us
would think twice. Now, in
doing that I think that the
nations have probably been so
intent on the task that they have
not got themselves internally
organised to be able to handle a
war, with everything that war
entails. I don’t think that their
manpower and their industry are
geared to turn over quickly from
peace to war. That’s the first
point.
“I think also that the organisa-
tion that is necessary has got to
be one that will enable you to
have security over a long time.
It’s no good saying, T want
security in 1954, 1957 or 1960.
I would like to see the nations so
geared that they have got
security for a long time ahead;
that if any aggressor comes along
they can spring to arms quickly.
That’s what we’ve got to put
right. We must give up the idea
of working to a definite date—
which may prove to be wrong.
“We’ve got to get the balance
right as to what exists in peace-
time and what comes into being
after mobilisation. That matter
is now being very carefully
examined. What exists in peace-
time is expensive, and some
nations have said they cannot
continue to carry these enormous
Defence Budgets.
“You never know what poli-
tical people will do. I doubt
whether the nations of Europe
will continue to carry these vast
Defence Budgets indefinitely.
“There lies the answer. What
you keep up in peace-time, in
being, at full strength—that’s
expensive. What you keep up as
a reserve which can come into
being after mobilisation —that
can be relatively cheap. It’s that
balance that has got to be found.
Western Germany
“You can’t do the defence of
Western Europe, which includes
Western Germany, without a
German contribution. Western
Europe includes Western
Germany. The Nato agreement
includes the Nato forces in
Germany also. The European
Defence Community forces will
be under Nato command. The
E.D.C. treaty will be in the agree-
ment. S.H.A.P.E. commands the
outfit. And we say it must
include Germans ; it must. And
the settling of the German contri-
bution is one of the biggest and
most important things of the
moment. We want a German
contribution in this game.
“The German contribution
would have a big effect on the
‘balance’ we talked about earlier.
It is to be primarily of active
forces: quite a sizeable number
of divisions. Then maybe jsome
more reserve-divisions later; I
don’t know. It will be done by
stages, I mean, a few divisions,
then a few more and so on: that
has all been worked out. Once
the E.D.C. is ratified and the
word ‘Go’ is given, the Germans
will proceed pretty quickly.
“Hie German contribution
might permit Nato to reduce
some of the other active forces,
but I doubt it. I think it would
enable us to hold the fort longer
and give more time for nations
to spring to arms behind; it
would have that effect.
American Troops
“As for talk about withdraw-
ing U.S. and British troops from
Europe, there’s always talk;
there always will be. There’s
too much talk, you see. But I
know of no concrete suggestion
or idea that the Americans or the
British should pull their troops
out.« None. I hope during the
time I’m mixed up in this busi-
ness the American troops will not
be taken away. They won’t, of
course.”
Field - Marshal Montgomery
was then asked if he’d like to
have American troops at his side
in the event of war.
He answered, “Oho, certainly
—don’t ask me that, by the
gods!”
Regarding alternatives in the
event of E.D.C. falling through,
the Field-Marshal continued; “I
don’t know. I really don’t know.
I’ve often told my political
masters, ‘Have you got an alter-
native if E.D.C. is not ratified?’
And the only answer I’ve ever
had was, ‘lt must be ratified.’
“I keep saying then, ‘Supposing
it is not; what do you do?’ It’s
a political thing, you see. I
don’t know what the alternative
is. It’s a political matter, and
it’s no good asking me. Ask the
Prime Minister.
France
“It’s my view that you can’t
defend Western Europe without
France. They are the big nation
—43 million people. It’s not on.
What have you got left then?
You’ve got the Dutch, 10
million ; Belgium, nine million;
Luxembourg, 300,000. It isn’t
on. You can’t do it without the
French; you can’t do it.
“These Russians, what have
they got? Two-hundred million.
What’s a little nation of 10


z/he
ROYAL EASTER
m
SHOW
9th to 20th APRIL, 1954
10 DAYS - - 8 NIGHTS
Getting ready
for
the Show?
HORSES, CATTLE. DOGS,
GOATS
Why not make sure that your exhibit
looks its most immaculate by
clipping with
V
m
NATIONAL
ELECTRIC CLIPPERS
There’s no fuss or bother from even the most highly strung
thoroughbred when you use NATIONAL Electric Clippers,
The smooth, soothing purr of the motor does not alarm the
animals, but makes the job easier.
The clippers operate on 24 volts, either direct from 32 volt
lighting plants, from 50 or 110 volt plants through a resistance,
or through a transformer from 240 volt supply.
THE PRICE IS ONEY
£32 per Set
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 YOUNG STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 509 Phone: 8U5095
Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay.
million; another of nine million;
another of 300,000? The French
are necessary in the defence of
Europe.
“We want the German troops
in the fight, certainly; but you
can’t do a thing without the
French. As for choosing the
Germans instead of the French,
you can choose anything you
like, but I’m not prepared to
say that you can have a proper
defence of Western Europe with-
out the French being in it. You
can’t. That’s my view.
“They’re a fine fighting race,
the French. It’s a lot of non-
sense, I think, this talk about the
French being no good, not fight-
ing. It’s absolutely untrue.
“You go and see the national-
service boys and you find that
they are first-class boys, excellent
boys. And they will fight. Of
course they will fight. They
want good leaders. The
American troops, the British
troops, they want good leaders
also. I’d say that the national-
service boys of all these countries
Norway, Belgium, Denmark,
Holland, France, Italy—they’re
excellent. All they want is good
officers. And when people say
they don’t think the French
would fight, you ought to stamp
on it! Of course they’ll fight.
U.S. Withdrawal?
“As for the idea of the U.S.
withdrawing from Europe, any-
thing’s feasible. But I reckon
if you lose all this [Western
Europe] that’s the end of
Western civilisation. That’s my
view.
“Regarding the fiction of beat-
ing the Russians with atomic
weapons from a distance, they
might beat you % with atomic
weapons. But if these Russians
walk in here and occupy all the
West, the cradle of Western
civilisation, what’s the good of
saying you’ll have some peri-
pheral thing in Iceland, North
Africa? Western civilisation is
gone. We must fight for it.
That’s my view. That’s what I’m
here for, not just to defeat the
Russians, but to defend Western
civilisation against the threat
from the Communist East.
Paper Work
“I once said that the soldiers
here needed exercise, and they
should be taken out running on
a paperchase. And if they didn't
have enough paper, they could
come to my office for it. There’s
too much paper ; the whole thing
is too much. There’s too much
everywhere. There’s too much
in ffie civil organisations. I
mean Whitehall, the Pentagon,
the State Department, Just
masses of paper.
“It should be burnt. No sane
man could read even half the
paper that’s issued, and the other
half isn’t worth reading.
“I don’t know why there is so
much paper. People sit in their
offices, you see, and write
things to each other instead of
going to see each other. I’m
told there are 35,000 people in
the Pentagon. And all producing
paper.
New Techniques
“In Normandy in World War
II we had enormous armies;
eventually a couple of million
people there. We went across
the Channel and we had no
harbor there. So we’brought over
those Mulberry harbors. Well,
you couldn’t do a Normandy
landing like that in the atomic
age. One A-bomb would wipe
it right out. So all the technique
has got to be changed because of
the progress of science. And all
that we entirely understand.
“We soldiers are often accused,
you now, of fighting the next war
where we left off the last one.
Totally untrue. Totally. We’re
far more advanced in our think-
ing than are most politicians.
“The need for mobility is
probably greater today than ever
before. That’s because of the
progress of science and the fact
that if you’re static you can have
things dropped on you. If you
are quick and moving, the enemy
doesn’t quite know where you
are. If you keep attacking him,
he can’t drop bombs on you. If
he did, he might drop one on
his own troops. Mobility is the
thing.
“We can hold a line [in
Europe], certainly. An obstacle-
line. To cross an obstacle-line
the enemy has to concentrate.
And when they concentrate you
have a target for an atomic
bomb.
“In the scientific age of
atomics your danger lies in dig-
ging yourself in and having
something dropped on you.
Don’t think Korea was any
training-ground for the next war.
It wasn’t. It was a completely
static war, except for patrolling.
The lessons from Korea will be
very valuable for patrolling and
digging and how to avoid shell-
fire. But it’s no training for the
next war in Europe. None.
That’s my view.
“I’m all for conducting the
fighting to force the enemy to
give you atomic targets. But
I’m for flexibility, speed,
mobility. I’m not for sitting
down.
Russia
“How many divisions can the
Russians send against Western
Europe? It would depend on
whether they want to attack us
without any warning and with-
out any mobilisation procedure.
If they did that they could move
about 30 divisions.
“We could certainly hold that.
That’s easy. But if they want to
they could have a much bigger
build-up. They’ve got 175
divisions all around. But if it
took the Russians a month to put
the larger number of divisions
into Germany I should hope that
by that time Nato would have
reserve forces coming in as well.
If not, we would deserve to lose.”
Communism in Italy
America, having given Italy
something like $5,000,000,000-
worth of military and economic
aid since the end of World War
11, is not a little concerned over
the increasing pro-Communist
vote in Italian politics—3l per
cent, at the 1948 general-election,
34.7 at the 1951-52 local and
35.8 at the 1953 general-election.
The Communist bloc now holds
36.9 per cent, of the seats in the
Italian Parliament.
Uncle Sam’s dollars are not,
of course, the only consideration.
“If,” remarks London
“Economist,” “the Four-Power
Conference [at Berlin] represents
one more phase of a carefully-
staged battle, fought from pre-
pared positions on the main
front, Italy may be likened to the
scene of an outflanking move-
ment, the object of a possible
left-hook which might one day
shake and stun Western Europe.
“In political terms, a swing-
over of the Italians to the Com-
munist side would convert their
country into a symbol of defeat
for the free world and so,
ironically, give Italy a greater
importance than any it has now
as a member of the Nato team.”
On the chances of the Com-
munists coming into power in
Italy within the next two years,
the “Economist” adds :
“No country has so far simply
voted itself Communist by a
genuine majority in free elec-
tions. Even though the Italian
Communist party is the largest
anywhere outside the Sino-Soviet
bloc it could scarcely hope to
win an election outright unless it
could tap some entirely fresh
strength, such as the solid vote
of the impoverished South. That
is still unlikely, since it is pre-
cisely from the South that the
Right has always drawn much
of its following.
“The Communists are more
likely to win power either through
another big increase in the vote
of the fellow-travelling Nenni
Socialists; or by repeating some
form of electoral manoeuvre like
that by which Communist
members of the scrutinising-
boards in the last elections
managed to secure the technical
invalidation of no fewer than
1,300,000 votes, most of them
cast for the central coalition; it
was, in fact. Signor De Gasperi
who won the last election, though
victory was allowed to slip from
his grasp,
“While it is unlikely that the
Italian Communists could batter
their way to power like the
parties of Eastern Europe, as
there is no Red Army following
on their heels, they might, on
the other hand, be able to exploit
any further decline in demo-
cratic prestige as Hitler did in
Germany in 1932. Then it was
the Communists who split the
opposition to German Fascism ;
today it is the Fascists who split
the effective opposition to
Italian Communism.”
America is worried by the
thought that the military and
economic strength it has built
up in Italy might eventually
benefit the Communists. Since
1950 over 300 military cargoes
from the U.S. have landed at
Italian ports, and they have, as
“U.S. News and World Report”
puts it, “covered the whole range
of military hardware —tanks,
howitzers, small-arms, signal and
electronic equipment, jeeps,
trucks, armored-cars, destroyers,
gunboats, mine-sweepers, naval
artillery, air-transports, jets and
piston-type fighters, trainers and
patrol-planes and many other
items.”
The cargoes are out of U.S.
hands almost the instant they
arrive; they belong to Italy:
“Should the Communists take
over there is no way the U.S.
could get these arms back
except by force.”
As well as these direct arms-
shipments, Italy has received
under the Nato defence-pro-
gramme at least eight airfields
fully equipped and in operation
and six more nearly completed ;
there are also “offshore-
procurement” contracts under
which America pays for and
Italy manufactures aircraft,
ships, ammunition and other
things. More than half this
production stays in Italy, a direct
gift from the U.S. Finally, there
are economic grants —Wash-
ington, for instance, put up the
$70,000,000 for American
machinery needed to expand and
modernise the Italian mining-
industry.
No wonder, then, that Uncle
Sam is “jittery” about the
progress of Communism in Italy,
particularly as most suggestions
so far offered are negative.
“N. Y. Times,” for instance,
opines that “in such a situation
the withholding of American
orders or aid would probably
strengthen Communism and
weaken Italy,” whereas a London
“Daily Telegraph” correspondent
in Italy maintains that “post-
war experience has shown that
indiscriminate distribution of
American money to industrial
and constructional undertakings
and land-reform as at present
administered are no solution in,
themselves.”
Various Voices
i
David Gammons {Britain's
Assistant Postmaster - General):
“The great danger to our,
industry today is if we believe
that there are two sides to it —'
employers and employed, with
different interests. Our power
of recovery is being hampered by
a whole cobweb of hoary mist—
that profits are a bad thing, that
prices can be fixed by Parlia-I
ment, that a man can work him-;
self out of a job, or that a quart;
of wages can come out of a pint-
pot of production. So long as
these beliefs prevail, the idea of
a conflict must always be
present.”
G. V. Jacks {director of the
Commonwealth Bureau of Soil
Science): “I am inclined to think
that a hungry world can be a
peaceful world. If the
450,000,000 people of India were
all well-fed and prosperous they
might not be pacific as they are
now.”


. Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
££5232
'
tm
m
Men /ifee (/.is TILLEY Table Lamp because it is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic—only li pints of Kero for
12 hours’ light —it is safe —it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one ?
While import re-
strictions remain
yon may have
difficulty In ob-
taining: TIIXEY
products.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores.
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL TLIO6
(“THE QUEEN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.I.
Solved!
-WITH Th
EVERY SOIL PREPARATION PROBLEM
NEW IMPROVED HOWARD
trailing rotary hoe
iliif
m
Jill
mm
» %
m ■
■
WITH THE NEW
Long hitch!
Four sizes available to en-
sure a perfect “ marriage”
between the Howard Trailing
Rotary Hoe and practically
every type of tractor!
Conversion kits available
for owners who wish to
change their present trailing
rotary hoe to an improved
“long hitch” model. Price,
£B2/14/-.
Every farmer knows the value of the Howard
Trailing Rotary Hoe in handling stubble,
cultivating, turning in weeds and cover crops,
renovating pasture land and preparing the
soil ready for sowing! Now, with the new “long
hitch,” the Howard Trailing Rotary Hoe offers
even greater manoeuvrability . . . steadier
operation . . . and reduced strain on the trac-
tor itself!
HOWARD AUTO-CULTIVATORS LTD.,
Windsor Rood, North mead, N.S.W.
Please send me full details of □ the new extended
hitches available for use with HOWARD Trailing
Rotary Hoes □ the HOWARD Seeder Attachment.
NAME
ADDRESS jg
CHIEF CROP
ACREAGE
TYPE OF SOIL
HWB2
HOWARD AUTO-CULTIVATORS LTD., Northmead, N.S.W.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of poem published about
14 years ago containing these lines:
Reeds by a winding river
Swaying their tassels tall,
Sighing and swaying ever.
Days of my youth recall.
—5739.
Words of verse “Cursed Drink.”
—5735.
Words of poem printed about 40
years ago called “Yawcob Strauss.”
—5736.
To buy copies of Bush Studies,
Human Toll and Cobbers, by Barbara
Baynton; also would like printed
biographical accounts of the
authoress.—5734.
-To buy copy of Myra Willard’s
History of the White Australia
Policy. —s74o.
To buy copy of Ensign Calder, by
J. H. M. Abbott.—s73B.
Collector of cigarette-cards would
like to get in touch with Bulletin
readers with same interest.—s 737.
Information Sought
(I) When were old-age pensions
introduced in Australia, and by
whom ? (2) To be entitled to the old-
age pension, how long must a for-
eigner have lived in Australia, and
how long must he have been natural-
ised ?
(1) The Victorian and N.S.W. Gov-
ernments both introduced old-age pen-
sions in the first years of this century.
The Victorian Act authorising them
came into force on Jan. 1, 1901; in
N-S.W. the measure became law on
July 1, 1901. The Victorian Premier
who introduced them was Sir George
Turner; in N.S.W. Sir William Lyne
has the credit. The only other State
to pass a Pensions Act was Queens-
land, whose Act became law in July,
1908. The State Acts were superseded
by the Commonwealth Invalid and
Old-age Pensions Act of 1908, which
provided for the payment of old-age
pensions throughout Australia from
July 1, 1909, and of invalid pensions
from Dec. 1, 1910. It was the second
Deakin Ministry (1905-08) which
introduced the Act, which has been
amended to some extent since. (2)
He must have had 20 years’ con-
tinuous residence. Continuous resi-
dence is deemed not have been inter-
rupted by occasional absences not
exceeding in the aggregate one-tenth
of the total period of residence.
Application for a pension can be
made immediately after naturalisation,
provided the applicant has had 20
years’* continuous residence.
* * * *
Meaning of the words (1) croggelty,
(2) quiddle ?
(1) Unable to discover its meaning,
or to find any reference anywhere to
the word. (2) It means “to trifle,”
“to be idle,” “to be finicky.” Accord-
ing to Ivor Brown, in Just Another
Word, it was commonly used in
Restoration drama, in the sense of
“toying”— to quiddle with a young
lady’s hand or affections. Brown also
quotes the American poet Ralph
Waldo Emerson, commenting on the
English gentleman’s fussiness, to the
effect that he is “petulant and pre-
cise about his accommodation’’ and
“a quiddle about his toast and chop.”
• ♦ ♦ *
Has it been proved that there are
canals on Mars ?
The Italian astronomer . Giovanni
Schiaparelli (1835-1910), who first
detected the famous “canals” in 1877,
following the convention of naming
dark areas on planets “seas,” “bays,”
etc., called the narrow dusky streaks
crossing light areas canali, meaning
“channels.” This was translated into
English as “canals,” implying an
artificial origin Schiaparelli never in-
tended to convey. The “canals” were
received with uncompromising scepti-
cism, and generally repudiated. How-
ever, the American astronomer Perci-
val Lowell (1855-1916), founder in
1894 of the Lowell Observatory,
boldly asserted they were artificial:
the radiation of lines and intersection
at dark spots (named “oases”) proved
that they were watercourses con-
structed by intelligent Martians, with
vegetation growing on the banks, to
irrigate their arid planet from the
melting polar snows. He outlined
his theory in Mars and Its Canals
(1906). However, it has few, if any,
adherents to-day.
* * * *
Was the Robert Morris who signed
the American Declaration of Indepen-
dence identical with Gouverneur
Morris, also associated with the
American War of Independence?
No. Robert Morris (1734-1806)
emigrated from Liverpool (Eng.),
where he was born, to America in
1747, and in 1754 joined a prosperous
firm in which he later became a part-
ner. In the revolution he sided with
the conservative group of Pennsylvan-
ian Whigs then in power rather than
the radical faction represented by
Thomas Paine. During the war he
served on various administrative
bodies. At first he disapproved of
the Declaration of Independence,
though ultimately he signed it. His
greatest public service was the
financing of the war. As chairman
or member of various committees he
practically controlled the financial
operations of Congress at that time.
In 1781 he was appointed Superinten-
dent of Finance, with Gouverneur
Morris, who was not related, as his
assistant. Gouverneur Morris (1752-
1816), lawyer and statesman, born
an aristocrat, was at the start of the
war distrustful of the Whigs but
joined them because of his firm be-
lief in the justice of the American
cause. He became a member of
Congress, , and was an enthusiastic
supporter of Washington. In 1778
he was selected chairman of the
committee to negotiate with the con-
ciliation commissioners sent by the
British Government, and as such
presented the famous report, adopted
by unanimous vote of Congress,
which declared that recognition of
American independence must precede
any negotiations for peace. He was
American Ambassador to France in
'the course of the French Revolution.
Brief Answers
E.C.8.; Uric acid is one of the pro-
ducts of chemical changes which pro-
teins undergo in the body. Traces of
the acid are found in urine and the
blood in health, but its content may
be increased by disease. Owing to its
insoluble nature the sufferer from
rheumatism, gout, etc., has attached
its presence to acid accumulation in
the blood. Diet must be studied....
K.E.R.: Write Western Machinery
Co. Pty., Ltd., 494 Murray-street,
Perth (W.A.)... .CJ.McN.: Write
Collins Book Depot, 93 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne R.E.: The book
you refer to is C. F. Laseron’s The
Face of Australia (Angus and Robert-
son), published last year J.A.F.:
The aim of GATT (General Agree-
ment on Tariffs and Trade) is to
stimulate trade by progressively
lowering tariffs. It was drawn up at
Geneva in October, 1947, Australia
being an initial signatory V.K.:
Denyers Pty., Ltd., 264 Swanston-
street, Melbourne T.N.: The
-statement “I do not know what
effect these names have on the
enemy, but I confess they make me
tremble” is attributed to the British
statesman William Pitt, the first
* Earl of Chatham (1708-78). It was
probably made in one of his vigorous
speeches condemning the conduct and
administration of the war fought
against the American colonies
(American War of Independence).
J.O’H.: It is not clear exactly
what you mean by “indexing” a
library of books. Cataloguing of
books is work ‘which k normally done
by trained and experienced librarians,
but a book such as The General Intro-
duction to Library Practice, published
by the N.S.W. Public Library, should
be of use. Unfortunately it is now
out of print and the new edition will
not be ready until later in the year.
Meanwhile a book such as Introduc-
tion to Cataloguing and the Classifi-
cation of Books by Margaret Mann
(2nd ed., Chicago, American Library
Association) • should be available.
Suggest you seek advice from a quali-
fied librarian in the first instance. The
State Librarian, Public Library of
Queensland, William-street, Brisbane,
may be able to nominate one
K.J.L.: Hassett won the toss in all
five Tests in England last year; in
the fourth Test he sent England in.
Two other captains in England-
Australia Tests have won all five
tosses in the one series—F. S. Jack-
son (England) in 1905 and M. A.
Noble (Australia) in 1909. England
won the 1905 series (2-0; three
drawn) and Noble’s team were
successful (2-1; two drawn).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Na ™e anc { address must appear on all
MoS. No liability is undertaken to
contributions voluntarily submitted ;
ana no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor, they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.C.C.: All that labor went for
naught.... 8.F.: All that we can say
is that Tony must have had it bad.
....E.C.: There’s an idea there, but
you didn’t handle it well enough....
K. That dog-selling yarn has
taken a long time to reach your part
of the world... .P.M.: You should
be able to do better than that
C.M.: Heavy - footed humor....
J.G.R.: A mere trifle J.D.W.:
Try something more cheerful....
L. ; Try it elsewhere G.R.W.;
The market is glutted with spear-
fishermen - versus - shark yams....
E.L.H.S.: A negative little effort.
L.O’K.: They might click if
you could get more characterisation
into the yarns J.M.: Worth put-
ting aside and coming at again
later R.L.i You have a fair dis-
tance to go Yet F.K.: It might
suit a girls’ paper S.Z.: We
would have liked old Bill to have
shown more fight A.H.: A trifle
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
elementary, isn’t it? J.W.: It is
a pity you can’t get more punch into
those sea-stories P.G.H.F.: It
doesn’t ring true —and it is an old
idea J.F.: Boil it down to an
“Abodginalities” paragraph
F. Off targ et J.R.: An
unimpressive lightweight B. J.G.:
Your bushrangers and troopers are
galloping back to the middle of the
19th century M.G.: Calls for
more expert treatment... X.G.W.: It
missed, but not by a wide margin.
A.E.S.: “The Pastmaster” is no
masterpiece A.S.McL.: Send it
to one of the Sydney evening dailies.
A.S.G.: One of the most familiar
of all bush sketches—it has been
coming into us for 74 years
R.H.: It is shuffling its way back.
J.L.: Present sample doesn’t
interest us, but keep on trying—
G. : Rain song is somewhat be-
low f.a.q F.R.C.: Try a woman’s
paper S.L.: The fact that it was
the first poem addressed to a lady’s
big toe we had ever read almost
tempted us to use it C.J.F.: “The
writing of verse is my pet pastime
... perhaps [my verse] woilld inter-
est my fellow-readers.” Frankly, we
do not think that your fellow-readers
would be interested It
gave us the jitters R.F.C.: Not in
the market for hymns J.A.: It’s
on a par with a thousand similar
poems on the same theme... .G.R.S.:
A delightful idea; it might have
passed had your pen been more
deft A.W.; “Down There,
Below!” ended up down there be-
low M.E.McL.: Just an album-
piece.


MY DAD'S A
MAN'S MAN
ssilliPSßls
mm
m
' \
Does your child have a blind
faith in YOU?
Margaret Turner believes her father
is the “daddy of them all”.
With good reasons, too! Listen to this
gripping radio drama as the dramatic
life story unfolds around . . .
JOHN TURNER'S
FAMILY”
PRESENTED BY WRIGLEY’S
8.30 p.m. FRIDAYS
2GB - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2CA 2WL 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
MACOUAUIE I
ft*
i
THE
GOOD
COMPANIONS
ti
?M M I
k Ik- ’ 3 3
A COMPLETE
RANGE OF AUTO-
MOTIVE OILS AND
GREASES . . .
equally suitable
for new and old
engines.
For top-up or oil change
choose ENERGOL, the
‘Good Companion * of C.OjR
MOTOR SPIRIT at . . . .
A N
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE-ST/.TIOH
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
C172/6933
Castle, still habitable in all
parts, where Robert the Bruce
and Mary Queen of Scots had
both been entertained in by-
gone days.
I was really spoiled amongst
them all. The Laird insisted on
my seeing some of the scenery
of Scotland, and set us in his
carriage from Don to Dee,
past Balmoral, etc. —a most
interesting, lovely, short tour.
As autumn approached we
journeyed south, halting in Edin-
burgh that I might visit Holy-
rood, and on to my husband’s
aunt, Mrs. Coats, at her small
property in Northumberland;
thence to London. We spent
Christmas with the Chester Mas-
ters at Knole Park, Gloucester-
shire, where all the family
assembled for that season, and
the dear old colonel accepted
me like a daughter. Nothing
could exceed the kind welcome
from all.
They kept up all the old Eng-
lish customs. Op Christmas
Eve the enormous yule log, cut
at last Christmas, was carried
in by the tenants, in procession,
the ashes of the last log carried
by the youngest grandchild. It
was watched all night by the
sons who were at home, lest it
should fail to burn. It must be
kept burning all yuletide. We
all shared in that vigil. On
New Year’s Day there was a
tenants’ dance and old games;
all these festivities in the old
brown hall.
From January to Jdne we
were in London, where I re-
ceived the sad news that my
mother was dead; it was a
terrible loss to me.
In May Dowager Lady Far-
quhar insisted upon presenting
me at court. I believe I was
the first Australian to be pre-
sented. With my colonial ideas
a bouquet was indispensable.
I enjoyed the whole ceremony,
and as I knew no one, I had no
selfconsciousness to make me
nervous. Although my hus-
band was delicate, he was quite
able to enjoy life then, and we
met so many friends of other
days. I did not feel a stranger
for a day,
June to August we spent
again in Aberdeenshire, and
after a flying farewell visit to
the Chester Masters, we em-
barked for Australia; Captain
and Mrs. Chester Master on
board. He had sold out of thp
Army and intended to settle in
Australia, whilst we expected to
return to Canning Downs.
The voyage was uneventful.
The Vimiers put into Port
Phillip, and we left her there
and found a strange state of
things in existence. Valuable
goldmines had been discovered,
prices for labor of every descrip-
tion were extraordinary. We
paid the boatman one pound
to take us to shore. In the prin-
cipal street one saw a newly-
erected, modern house as a
shop and beside it a shanty
containing a valuable stock of
goods for sale.
I entered the shop for some
trifling purchase; two diggers
entered that jeweller’s-shop in
their rough clothes and asked
to see some diamond rings. The
jeweller produced a tray con-
taining diamond rings valued up
to seventy guineas.
“This one will suit my
missus,” said the digger, select-
ing a seventy-guinea ring. He
took a bag of gold and desired
the shopman to weigh out the
price of the ring, which he
accordingly did.
The Government was* paying
one pound a day for road-
making.
We were invited to dine with
the Acting-Governor, who lived
several miles out of Melbourne.
My husband inquired the price
of a cab. Five pounds was de-
manded, and when he remon-
strated the driver said “I’d
rather go to a digger’s wedding.”
These incidents will some-
what convey an idea of the first
rush to the goldfields of Bal-
larat. We finished our voyage
in a coasting steamer. On arriv-
ing in Sydney we found a great
change in our position owing to
the development of the gold-
fields in New South Wales. The
influx of population during one
year of our absence had raised
the value of all livestock.
Sheep, which had been valu-
able chiefly for wool alone,
attained a high price, together
with cattle and horses. My hus-
band’s state of health made a
return tP the anxiety of labor,
inseparable from such a con-
cern, very inadvisable. I there-
fore used all my influence to
induce him to be satisfied with
a sufficiency for our needs and
to sell the property. It was
accordingly sold to his cousin,
Gilbert Davidson, and we never
saw it again.
We remained a year in Aus-
tralia, and rented a charming,
house in the environs of Sydney.
My husband was fully occupied
with the winding-up of affairs
and attending the Legislative
Council, with no inclination or
leisure for amusement. We had
plenty of society. The 11th
Regiment had returned from
Tasmania, the colonel, Blom-
field, was an old friend; my
cousin Edward Macarthur was
D.A.G. [Deputy Adjutant-
General], the Commander-in-
Chief General Wynyard.
Cap-a-pie had been brought
down for my riding, and we
had good carriage-horses, and a
phaeton which we had had built
in England for station use. There
was much cheerful intercourse
in that comparatively small
society. We gave some pleasant
impromptu dances and organised
picnics down the lovely harbor.
The Governor - General and
many of my friends, old and
new, liked these informal en-
tertainments. The colonel
offered his string band ; spoons
and forks, ad libitum, came
from Government House, and
there was an excellent caterer
in Sydney who provided refresh-
ments. I, personally, had no
trouble.
In the winter we went to Bris-
bane. We had talcen our
Chinese groom. On returning to
Sydney in a coasting steamer
we encountered a fearfill gale,
and in an ill-found old wooden
boat. We had two horses and
boxes on the deck. The cabins
were built on the deck with a
gangway around them, the .
ladies’ cabin across the stern.
The first loss was of the two
quarter-boats. The mast went
overboard and the sail got en-
tangled with the screw. The
bulwarks and two awning cabins,
on the level of the ladies’ cabin,
were washed away. The poor
horses were swept overboard, the
donkey-engine for the pumps
useless, the fires out. The supply
of fresh drinking-water was in
barrels on the deck and went
overboard. The only available
water was strong —and in an
old disused tank in the hold.
From my cabin I heard the
men leave the helm. The cap-
tain became intoxicated the first
day. My husband bought all
the spirits the stewards had on
board and threw them into the
sea. A passenger who had been
captain of a small coasting
vessel took command.
The sea was rushing in and
out of my cabin. My husband
organised a chain of buckets, and
day and, night bailed the aft
holds through my cabin. By this
time the captain resumed com-
mand. My maid and little niece
were with me. At one moment
the water reached the child’s
berth. “Call Uncle George; I
will not lie here to be
drowned!” she cried. .
The gale commenced on
Thursday night and abated on
Saturday night. When it sub-
sided a fire was lighted, a sailor
slung overboard to cut away the
entangling sail and we could
make three knots. Communica-
tion had been impossible be-
tween stern and forecastle, and
our poor Chinaman imagined
we had gone overboard with the
horses. He was brought to the
door of my cabin before he
would believe that we were
safe.
The captain had reasserted
his authority, and would not
hear the request to put into the
port of Newcastle, which we
were passing. As the weather
was calm, the men who had not
been in bed for three nights
went to rest.
A dense fog set in, and long
before daylight we ran upon
.rocks. I was thrown out of
the berth with the shock. Our
captain mistook his position;
the fog had obscured the light-
house, and until daylight we did
not know whether we were in-
side Sydney Harbor or at the
foot of the cliffs outside, at the
mercy of the rising tide of the
Pacific Ocean. The hold was
sounded continually. We had
no means of making a signal.
Rockets, etc., had gone over-
board in the mate’s cabin. When
the day dawned we found the
bowsprit amongst bushes inside
the harbor.
We hailed a fisherman’s boat
in the early dawn and left the
wretched steamer. We landed
upon the Quay, and my husband
left the maid, the child and my-
self sitting on portmanteaux
while # he sought a carriage.
Whilst there a gentleman came
down in the dawn for fishing. I
was slightly acquainted with him,
and his astonishment could be
imagined,,
Our experience had one good
result. My husband asked in
the Legislative Council the
same evening for inspection of
the coasting steamers, as our
steamer had not been properly
equipped. A strange fate befell
a young fellow-passenger who
had been pressed with difficulty
to share the bailing operations ;
he was afterwards drowned
crossing a river in flood in Aus-
tralia.
Before we left Canning
Downs the Government had
offered for sale uncultivated
land at one pound an acre, with
the result that, where we rode
fifteen miles without meeting a
soul on the banks of the river
Condamine, those banks are
now cut up into small farms for
cultivation. I read lately in an
advertisement: “One of the
most charming homesteads on
the Downs, surrounded by gar-
den and orchard,” Yes! I know
that garden; I planted it with
my own hands; plants from
Camden and (by favor) from the
Botanical Gardens in Sydney.


0
with LYSAGHT
CRAIN SILOS AND
AUGERS^^H
'
3E
1
>
u
Features:
SILOS
• Heavy gauge galvanised sheets.
• Easily erected—permanent.
• Rodent and weatherproof.
• Extras available include; access
door, earthring, etc.
• Prompt delivery,
AUGERS
• Designed to fill and empty
Lysaght Silos.
• Segmented construction for easy
assembly and versatility.
• Unique vertical filling avoids
congestion.
• Vertical sets complete with wall
brackets, chute tubes, etc.
AUGERS ARE PRICED AS LOW AS £75/13/-
POPULAR TYPE FOR 2000 BUSHEL SILO, £lO3/18/- (Motors not provided),
Write for further information and agents' names to
LYSAGHTS WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
o. JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD., m all capital cities.
-cur
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains ever
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
Os
CM-
«»' uS r,
ivott*
BO***
MB
4
OU-M-A
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRf*CALC(C PHOSPHATE-
Any particular! gladly tappllni— _
Writ, to DAVIS GELATINb MO.
SYDNEY • S.P.O. Bos 40U. MELBOURNE • MO.
Bo«JI2F. ADELAIDE • S.P.O. Bos »«**.
• G.P.O Bos IBS. PERTH,
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENT:
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Dwarfism
“Mo”: American breeders and
scientists seem to agree that
dwarfism in cattle is increasing
(U.S. Information Service),
although a lot of information is
still lacking; such as how many
dwarf calves are born each year,
how many cattle are carriers?
What is known is that (in the
U.S., anyway), no major beef-
breed or -line is known to be
dwarf-free. And very probably
that generalisation holds good
elsewhere.
The trouble, of course, is most
serious in beef-cattle. A dwarf
calf is practically useless. It
represents a loss of one normal
calf, and the season’s usefulness
of the mother.
Dwarfism isn’t a disease, nor
is it caused by faulty diet. It is
inherited. Dwarf characteristics
are transmitted by one or more
recessive genes. This means that
apparently normal cattle may
still carry the gene and pass it
on to some of their offspring.
Animals that look normal are
either carriers or dwarf-free;
there are no semi-carriers, or
partly dwarf-free animals. If
both parents are carriers, one-
fourth of their calves, on the
average, will be dwarfs.
There is evidence that carriers
are often selected as breeding
animals; perhaps because they
mature early ; perhaps the dwarf
gene has some subtle influence
on conformation.
Until recently, elaborate test-
ing was the only way to find out
whether an animal was a carrier.
That is, if a dwarf is born you
know both parents are carriers,
but it takes many matings to be
sure an animal is not a carrier.
For a breeder to be sure 49
times out of 50 that an unproved
bull is dwarf-free, the bull must
produce normal calves each time
when mated with 14 proved
carrier cows, or to 30 cows sired
by a known carrier bull (half of
which, theoretically, would be
carriers). An obviously long
and expensive business. What
was wanted was a short-cut, some
sort of a rule-of-thumb.
The profilometer, up to a
point, is the answer. At least, it
is a step in the right direction.
The instrument was developed by
P. W. Gregory, of the Cali-
fornia Agricultural Experiment
Station, and is used to draw a
profile outlining the shape of a
bull’s head on a line extending
from between the ears to the
nose. Thp profile is then analysed
to determine whether the bull
carries the dwarf gene.
Abnormalities of dwarf
calves —broad, short face, bulg-
ing forehead, pot-belly—indicate
that dwarfism involves, a de-
ficiency of the pituitary and
thyroid glands. These exert an
influence on the shape of the
head. That is the theory behind
tfie profilometer.
Profilometer diagnoses of
mature horned Hereford bulls,
in herds where dwarfism was
known to occur, have identified
carriers with few exceptions.
But they are not yet reliable with
mature bulls of other breeds, or
with younger bulls or cows.
It would be interesting to know
what is doing in this field of
research in Australia. When 1
was up at the Sydney University
Farm, near Liverpool, about a
year ago, I saw some dwarf cattle
(dairy), and the 0.1. C. of the
farm, animal-husbandry lecturer
Hector Geddes, told me that he
had been breeding them for
experimental purposes for some
time. But I was more interested
in another project and didn’t
ask many questions.
Illustrated Hint
This easy-to-make bails feed-
ing-box is recommended by
J. W. G. Smith, dairy-officer at
Moss Vale (courtesy N.S.W.
Dept, of Agriculture). Can be
fitted to doors of bails; similar
gadgets have proved useful at
FRONT VIEW
SIDE VIEW
UP OVER
Mrs. Henderson’s property at
Robertson fcr feeding concen-
trates.
A space 2ft, 6in. high by
Ift. 6in. wide is cut out of the
bails-door. A galvanised
manger, shaped like a half-
bubble to allow sufficient food-
stuffs to be placed in it, is then
attached as shown in the draw-
ing. A lip is formed at the
bottom of the feed-box to clamp
over the inside of the door and
the top is fastened by means of
thumb-screws through a piece
of 2in. by lin. batten.
Although designed for use
with dehorned cattle, it could be
enlarged as required for horned
cattle.
New Branding Solution
“Billjiih”: For years techni-
cal men have pointed to losses
caused by branding, but, from
the woolgrowers’ point of view,
not much could be done about
it. Now C.5.1.R.0. has evolved
a scourable branding-fluid of
the lanoline-based emulsion
type.
However, it doesn’t eliminate
altogether danger of wool-
damage. The human factor has
to be taken into account.
Solution consists of four
parts lanoline, two parts resin,
one part stearic-acid emulsified
in water with a small amount of
ammonium stearate, mixed with
a suitable pigment.
Principle of the formula is
that on application of the fluid
the ammonia evaporates
quickly, breaking the emulsion
and leaving a solid residue of
lanoline, resin and pigment ad-
hering to the wool-fibres. Lano-
line is an ideal basic constitu-
ent ; grease in wool is, in fact,
lanoline. Resin helps to harden
the brand, which remains for
about a year and is removed in
the normal scouring.
To get the best
results from L.B.E.
watch the following
points: Brand high on
the back to prevent
rubbing, and release
sheep from the pen as
soon as the brand is
applied. Try to brand
in dry conditions.
Don’t use wire
brands; a regulation
branding - iron is
recommended.
Saturate a portion of
sheep-pelt in the
branding - pot and
press iron against it
before each applica-
tion. Apply brand
liberally, particularly with
crossbred and British breeds. It
is better to brand on a short
growth of wool than immedi-
ately after shearing.
Use only enough liquid for
immediate purposes. Color is
important. Don’t use black or
blue in country producing a
black-tipped wool, or a red
brand in red-soil areas. As
black is not easily distinguish-
able from old-type brands, it is
better to use brighter colors.
Methylene-blue Test
“Gentian”: Senior Dairy
Supervisor D. H. McKay, in the
“Victorian Department of Agri-
culture Journal,” gives a few
details of the methylene-blue
test for the benefit of those
supplying milk which now has
to comply with the test.
It is, simply, a method of find-
ing the living bacteria in a
sample of milk. These bacteria
use-up the oxygen dissolved in
the milk, and the rate at which
it is used is roughly proportional
to the number of bacteria
present.
Methylene-blue is normally
blue, but becomes colorless in a
solution containing little or no
oxygen. Added to milk, it there-
fore indicates a point at which
bacteria have reduced oxygen to
a very low level. In testing, milk
samples with methylene-blue are
kept at a constant temperature,
so that all samples have a
standard treatment.
If the bacteria take five hours
or more to use-up oxygen, the
number isn’t excessive; if the
methylene-blue is decolorised in
less than five hours, bacterial
content is too high.
North Coast Soils
“Par One”: C.5.1.R.0. inves-
tigations of decline in produc-
tivity of the deep, red, basaltic
soils of the far North Coast of
N.S.W. largely confirm previ-
ous findings of the State Depart-
ment of Agriculture.
Both agree that grass-land
grazed for as long as 60 years
GET IN EARLY
So popular has “The Bulle-
tin's” Wool Type Card become
to classers, sheep - owners,
wool students, and others
associated with wool, that the
demand keeps on threatening
the supply. Send for yours
n'ow —your name and address
and postal-note for 7s. 6d.


SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75 ,
Weight
Wlbs.
dsf
Sturdy battery - charging and
ightmg set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers*
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
:*-v
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE
HYGEiA DISSOLVEHATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
df
YOU CAN INSTAI. IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26*30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND;
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS,:
DARWIN:
Singapore ;
N.Z.:
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00. (N.S.W.). 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (QTand), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Win, Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
G. T. See Kee, Badolectrix, Enuckey St., Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Baffles Place.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
BRAND Of PHENOTHIAZINE
THE MOST EFFICIENT
WORM DRENCH
Phenothiazine stops egg production of the
few worms remaining after drenching for 2-3
weeks. Do not infest your paddocks. Drench
with “PHENOVIS” and place your stock on
clean pasture.
INFECTIVE
DROPPINGS
WORMY SHEEP NOT DRENCHED
Up to 5,000,000 eggs
passed dally to infest
pastures.
r \r™ -dk
SHEEP TREATED WITH BLUE-
STONE - NICOTINE, up
to 1,000,000 eggs passed
daily to infest pastures. J|
r
Me.
SHEEP TREATED WITH
PHENOTHIAZINE Very
few eggs passed-—pastures
clean. ■.
»v«
One of a series of advertisements designed to convey as a
simple story the results of many years of research. Acknowledg-
ment is made to many research workers whose results have been
published in the Australian Veterinary Journal and elsewhere.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
ICI
PHE. 15X.41t1>
might be expected to suffer a
fall in fertility by depletion of
reserves of exchangeable
mineral plant-nutrients, chiefly
calcium, magnesium and potas-
sium, lost in the form of milk,
if not also from leaching.
In the Lismore district,
C.5.1.R.0. considers that this
loss applies particularly to
potash, which is quite low in the
red soils (by comparison with
many other soils in the region),
and which is removed in
greater quantity than even cal-
cium (in the milk).
Nitrogen and native phos-
phates are still present in the
soil in reasonably good quan-
tities, even without any appli-
cation of fertilisers, although
the phosphates have low avail-
ability.
Lime, magnesia and potash
may be the king-keys to better
growth of pasture on these
soils, but phosphates, either
pelleted or in more concentrated
form, or ordinary super, (in
bands, rather than broadcast)
are likely to help in obtaining
increased yields of pasture over
relatively long periods.
Where the feeding of mixed
concentrates is practised,
essential mineral nutrients are
slowly added to the soil, and, in
time, relieve some of the need
for lime and fertilisers. More-
over, no nutritive element is
more readily available in the
soil than in the form of animal-
manure.
Evaporation
“K.A.”: In low-rainfall areas
moisture must be conserved.
Evaporation goes on all the
time humidity is less than 100
per cent., and even during rain
the air is not always saturated to
this figure.
Benefit of showers is quickly
lost unless the surface is
loosened, for although heavy rain
will penetrate to a considerable
depth, immediately it ceases the
surface moisture evaporates.
More water is lost by capillary-
rise, and the process continues.
The effect of immediate culti-
vation is to break capillary
action, but below the surface the
same action is bringing the water
up to where the roots can use it.
Inland Hedges
“J.C.”: K. F. Mcßae, forestry
officer, Mildura (Vic.), con-
siders duranta excellent for
inland hedges.
Though slightly frost-tender at
the start, it stands up well to
successive days of 90 degrees.
This short tree bears thick
foliage of medium-green and its
bright-blue flowers are followed
by golden berries. Mcßae de-
clares that even when they have
stripped every other tree bare,
grasshoppers still give it a miss.
The boobialla (Myoporum
montanum ), one of the western
species able to live on the rain-
fall, forms a fine green barrier
which makes it a cheering sight
in time of drought. Swan Hill
police-station boasts a hedge of
it as compact as if it had been
trimmed with a razor.
That old hardy standby the
pepper makes a hedge of ferny
foliage which, when kept well-
trimmed, is a thing of beauty in
any grounds. . Since its roots go
deep down after water-supplies,
it is not affected by dry periods.
For inland districts the
Cypress lambertiana horizontalis
should be chosen when a mossy
wall of green over 2ft. thick is
wanted. If these trees are
planted 6ft. apart their branches
will intertwine as they grow.
Mange in Dogs
“B”: Redness of a dog’s
skin, followed by soreness and
scabs, may be true mange. It
is caused by mites burrowing
into the spot and will recur if
they are not destroyed.
Don’t apply turps, it burns
the hide Off. Clip the hair short
and wash with warm water and
a dog-soap. Shave enough of
the soap to fill a small teaspoon
and dissolve in half a cup of
hot water. Mix castor-oil and
sulphur into a thin paste and
to every quarter-pint add a
teaspoon of the soft-soap.
Massage gently into the spot and
leave for a day. Wash off with
warm water and soap. Repeat
the treatment till the skin looks
healthy. Omit the soap from
the mixture when the sore’s in
a lickable spot, ’End of the
summer most dogs are run-down
and need a course df condition-
powders.
In Brief
A wheat-marketing authority
thinks Australia could have 90
million bushels of wheat in store
when the 1954-55 crop is ready
for delivery, unless there is a
“very great” change in the in-
ternational market. Silos have
been bulging for a couple of
years, so if the prediction comes
half-true there should be some
high-level panic and talk of
“long-range planning” about
that time. Good for the mice,
* ♦ ♦
Some figures showing p.c. of
wools of 60’s and up (greasy)
sold at auction in Australia over
five years (Wool Bureau statis-
tics): 1948-49, 74.1 ; 1949-50,
75.3; 1950-51, 75.7; 1951-52,
73.5; 1952-53, 75.6.
* * *
Total for 1952-53 clip (in-
cluded in above analysis) is
3.752.000 bales, an increase of
468.000 bales, or 14 p.c., on
previous season. Main reasons :
good season and myxomatosis.
* * •
Fowl-pest is causing some
concern in the U.K. Ministry
of Agriculture experts think the
disease came in with carcasses
from Europe.
♦ * *
More about Jap trade: Dal-
gety’s Tokyo correspondent says
the recent sterling agreement
provided for a Japan-U.K. trade
equilibrium of £240 million,
compared with Britain’s favor-
able balance of £lO million last
year. Japan has introduced a
10 p.c. sales-tax on certain
goods, including woollen ones,
and the money goes to subsidise
mills. Talks (about buying Jap
goods) with Australia, N.Z.,
India and Pakistan will deter-
mine “the extent to which
Japan will buy wool in Australia
and New Zealand in the new
financial year.”
* * *
Much of the Spanish orange-
crop has been damaged by
frost. From the beginning of
March big buyers may get a
40 p.c. quota of normal pur-
chases (“Times” report, written
in Barcelona slightly before the
event). Germany, France and
Britain, in that order, would get
largest share of the 100,000 to
150,000 tons available, Scan-
dinavian countries would get
smaller amounts.
* * *
Russian and German chemists
in the Agfa laboratories of the
former I. G. Farbenindustrie
have developed a new synthetic
fibre, wolcrylon, which is
claimed to be the nearest
approach to pure wool yet dis-
covered (Dalgety’s).
Hints for the Farm
“C.A.A.”; Research in the
U.S. shows that a pad in the
bottoms of storage-barrels
makes a big difference in p.c.
of bruised potatoes. Simple, but,
in terms of saved murphies,
effective. Sponge-rubber iin.
thick was best cushion.
“Brolga”: Late-summer and
early-autumn are good times to
sow white-skinned onions. Seed
is hot long-lived, so get a new
supply each year. Sow on a
raised bed of loamy soil lightly
dusted with super, raked into
the surface in drills 3in. apart.
Water regularly for unchecked
growth, but don’t overdo it, be-
cause of danger of downy mil-
dew. Thin-out to lin. apart.
Weeds can be reduced by spray-
ing the seed-bed with power-
kerosene just before seedlings
emerge. Transplanting is best
done at two- to three-leaf stage,
when plants are about 6in. to
Sin. high. Space rows lOin. to
12in. and plants 3in. to 4in.
apart.
“Sundowner”: In well-
drained beds carrots, red-beet,
parsnips and swedes are best left
in the ground to keep for win-
ter use, though if ground is
likely to remain wet it’s best to
lift them. Those selected for
store should be free from all
disease, insect-damage, broken
skin or second-growth. Take off
green tops of all roots, leaving
only about 3in. attached.
“Mower”: New lawns are
best sown in March on consoli-
dated soil. Level and firm and
hoe to catch weeds young. Give
established lawns a good soak-
ing before they brown-off. Light
sprinklings do lawns little good.
If grass-grubs are bad apply
l£lb. of 50 p.c. wettable D.D.T.
in water, using lOOgals. for each
1000 square yards of lawn.
“Billabong”: When stocking
a new property which has no
permanent water remember
that average daily requirements
are lOgals. for a horse, 15gals.
for a dairy-cow, each
for pigs, sheep and goats and
sgals. per hundred for hens.
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
The prospects now are for further rain in Queensland
after the middle of March: may be very wet in the north,
although it is possible the Burdekin Delta may get less this
time. New South Wales should get coastal rains, heavier in
the n'orth, south-east, and Capital Territory, and along
the Murray, but lighter elsewhere. Victoria should get some
fairly good rains, which were delayed by the influence
of the cyclone. South Australia should get some light rains;
Western Australia should have some rains in the south-
west and in the far north.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Cold Welcome
On March 1 a somewhat storm-
battered steel ketch arrived in Newcastle
(N.S.W.) from Holland, via Panama and
Tonga. She carried the owner, J. S.
Leyen, his wife and a crew of two, also
Dutch. Virtually without instruments,
they’d sailed halfway round the world
and finished the journey with their radio
and engine out of action. Also, by this
time, they were short of money. \
Leyen said he was seeking a place to
settle and hoped to find it in Australia.
He also said he and his crew would-have
to find jobs for a while to pay for repairs
and build a reserve.
Any ideas he might have held, how-
ever, about Australia being a land of
opportunity and freedom must have been
rudely shattered by a statement (New-
castle “Herald,” 4/3/’54) by “employ-
ment authorities” —whoever they might
be —that the three men might find it hard
to get work in Australia, First, they
would have to get the permission of the
Immigration Department; it was un-
likely to be granted because of their
mode of entry into Australia and their
lack of sponsors.
These people have shown initiative,
and, as anybody who has been in blue-
wafer in a small boat will agree, courage
of a high order. But “guts” and “go”
don’t seem to be wanted. Any tendency
for the newcomer to stand on his, own
feet must be discouraged. He must
arrive sponsored, in a well-ordered herd,
ready to be packed into camps and kept
there until he wants nothing more than
to go home again.
The forebears of most of us old Aus-
tralians battled their way out here in
rather small sailing-boats. Most of them
landed with only a few pounds and a.few'
possessions. It looks as though they
were the type who wouldn’t be allowed
to put a foot on the pier these days.—
G. (N.S.W.).
Bread
Better bread (B. 24/2/’54)? Millers
nowadays wash their wheat with water,
or “condition” it by damping. That is
accepted practice. Now, the wheat-grain
absorbs water readily—obvious when it
is remembered that wheat is a seed and
that seeds must be able to absorb mois-
ture easily so that germinating processes
can begin.
That is, in fact, what happens when
wheat is washed: germination starts, and
that is the reason for the bad keeping-
quality of whole-wheat flour. It con-
tains the wheat-germ, the living part of
the grain. The 30 per cent, (including
"You're looking very pale this morning, Sopwith."
wheat-germ) that does not get into white
flour includes most of the grain’s aneurin,
riboflavin, carotene, calcium and iron.
When the grain is wetted germination
Starts, and the chemical process of fat-
oxidation turns the flour rancid. So to
improve the keeping-quality of the flour
the wheat-germ is milled out because it
contains all the grain’s fat. But it also
contains most of the important vitamins
and minerals and leaves a dead but per-
fectly uniform commodity.
The recent Science Congress at Can-
berra recommended that flour shotild be
synthetically fortified, as is done in other
countries. The real solution, however,
would be to attack the cause, not the
effect. Wheat should be cleaned, not
with water, but by compressed-air
blowers. —R. B. C. (Vic.).
Young Men for the Land
One of the gravest problems in Aus-
tralian farming is the lack of young man-
power—youngsters are concentrating in
cities and towns simply because of better
amenities, better money and better
chances of advancement. Yet, with the
stepping-up of the revolution caused by
sub.-clover and improved grasses, and
the intensification of fanning that will
surely follow, more men per acre are
now needed to manage farms efficiently.
How can the problem be overcome?
There must be good working conditions
and good living-quarters. Most men, if
they are satisfied with meals and bedding
and get a fair-go from the boss, will give
a good day’s work in return. There
should also be some kind of bonus for
work done well, or some other incentive
to inspire good work. Could
a system of helping keen
young men on to their. own
properties be worked out? It
would help persuade those in
the country to stay there.
But the farmer’s main job is
to attract to the country youths
from the city, and to convince
them that the life on the land
is the best of all. A clergyman
lately arranged a sort of re-
versal of the Far West Scheme,
allowing kids from the city, during their
school holidays, to have a spell in the
country. Couldn’t that be done on a big
scale? There are hundreds of shearers’-
huts all over the country which are only
used once or twice a year. What admir-
able camps they would make for boys.
When the youngsters got a taste of the
wide open spaces ; of horses, sheep and
cattle; of the smell of freshly-ploughed
earth; then perhaps they might decide
that the country would do them, too. —
D.S.M. (N.S.W.).
*' ■ . . ,
Australian Wines
Unfortunately, British people at home
just don’t seem to like the usual run-of-
the-mill Australian wine. That has far
more effect than all the Government
regulations (B. 24/2/’54).
Take port, for instance —or what we
call “port.” In the U.K. it figures on
the shelves as “port-type,” with a cog-
nomen of “ruby-red” or “tawny.”
British regulations, under an agreement
with Portugal, the home of the famous
Oporto from the town of that name, do
not allow wines of that type to be sold
under the “trade-mark.” Disadvantage
Number One; Who wants to buy a sub-
stitute when the original may be had as
readily?
Second, our really good wines don’t
seem to be known oyer there. British
people I’ve met in Australia are often
surprised to find that the quality of our
local wines is as good as, if not better
than, the Continental varieties they have
enjoyed at home. Why that should be
I don’t know. Of course our wines have
to undergo the exhausting sea voyage
through the tropics, and that may account
for some deterioration, but South
African wines, our chief Commonwealth
rivals, have to put up with similar treat-
ment.
Third, should Great Britain decide to
reduce tariffs on wines, Continental
countries and South Africa must also
receive the benefit of any such reductions.
Those countries, as well as the U.K. and
Australia, are contracting parties to the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade,
Any preferential treatment accorded to
Australia would probably constitute a
breach of the agreement. Therefore, with
our high costs of production, any move-
ment along those lines by the U.K. would
not benefit us very much.
Principally, however, the problem is a
“He’s too hep for our ballet."
matter of taste. In that the British public
are the judges, no matter what the actions
of . paternal and well-meaning Govern-
ments, — Karrimba (Vic.).
Floods
There have been many schemes for
mitigation of floods on the Richmond
River (N.S.W.), varying from damming
to dredging. Since the latest flood they
are all being discussed again, but several
new angles have come up. r
Now that the North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. is being wound-up a
scheme for the diversion of the river
away from Lismore is gaining a lot of
adherents. Others, pointing out that a
traditional Country-party area can ex-
pect little from a Labor State Govern-
ment, are using the floods to back the
New State movement.
The most likely solution, as far as Lis-
more is concerned, is the gradual trans-
fer of the city to the hills to the east.
Already most of the new home-building
is in that area, and business will eventu-
ally follow the population. Government
assistance could speed this transfer.—
Mullum (N.S.W-).
The Antarctic
I didn’t say Macquarie Island was near
the Antarctic continent (B. 24/2/’54). I
said there were wrecks there, and sug-
gested there could be some around the
mainland. And I still say so.
“V.1.H.” scoffs at the idea of sub-
marine currents in the Antarctic —pre-
sumably because of the high winds in
that region—but asks “What happened
to the Aurora, Mawson’s old ship?”
Well, what happened to it? I know
how easily a ship could be lost without
trace in those frozen wastes, but there
are wrecks on the island, and may not
some of them have been carried there
by currents? And couldn’t others have
been carried even further south?
As to the Koombana, she went
down 80 miles out of port, in a regular
shipping-lane. She almost certainly cap-
sized through lack of ballast, pumped out
to let her cross the bar at the harbor-
mouth, and she went down intact. After
40 years surely she would have disinte-
grated sufficiently for some recognisable
part to have floated to the surface. Un-
less, as I suggested, she was caught in a
current.
The old skipper who first suggested
this to me knew the north coast of W.A.
both as a seaman and a diver. He rode
out the Koombana cyclone in a lugger
and later joined in the search for the ship.
He s sure he found the spot where she
went down, and he’s just as sure she
wasn’t there a week later. He spoke of
those submarine currents as facts—
accepted facts.—W. I. W. (W.A.).
Margins
For as long as most of us can remem-
ber unions have been working to increase
“apparent” wages of the basic-wage
worker. They have succeeded to an ex-
tent none of us thought possible years
ago. Surely, though, many of their mem-
bers know that improved standards of
living for basic-wage workers can only
be obtained by an equivalent reduction
in standards for the remainder of the
community—unless, of course, there is
an appropriate increase in national goods
and services available.
Now the unions are trying to increase
the wages pf a considerable proportion of
that remainder of the community. If
they are successful it seems there must
be some reduction in the living-standards
of basic-wage earners,; the size of the
divisible cake being unaltered. Then we
could expect another campaign for more
basic-wage increases.
So we come again to the conclusion
that our troubles can only be cured by
an increase in effort and in production.
Without that any further tinkering with
wage-rates can only lead to further infla-
tion, which we cannot afford in a com-
petitive world.
Yet it is essential to restore better
rewards for effort and achievement —to
provide better incentives. I doubt if that
can be achieved by a reduction of basic-
wage rates, so it seems we must move
gradually to more satisfactory margins.
—V. U. P. (N.S.W.).
Compost and Soil-preservation
I join with “Ceg’s” condemnation of
Melbourne Board of Works for its pro-
posing to spend £26 million on a scheme
to dispose of sewage by running it out
to sea (B. 3/3/’54).
Maintaining soil-fertility is all-
important, and to permit its loss is gross
squandering—and that is the implication
of Melbourne’s proposed disposal
scheme.
Sewage should be chemically treated
and used as compost or fertiliser. I
understand that Canterbury Council
(Sydney) has a scheme for treating gar-
bage functioning well, as have one or two
other Sydney councils.
Victoria’s is not the only soil which
needs “conserving or even adding to”—
that applies to all Australia. As “C.
says, our overall soil-fertility is declining
badly, yet we go blithely on, caring little
and doing nothing about it-
A couple of years ago I lamented in
these pages that the thousands of tods
of soil then being dredged up from the
bottom of Newcastle harbor were being
dumped out at sea, instead of being put
back on the land, whence they had
originally come. (River-flow annually
deposits thousands of cubic yards of silt
at sea-mouths.) It could surely have
been done ; yet, as far as I know, the
dumping at sea continued till the dredg-
ing job was finished. —K. R. (N.S.W.).


to a brilliance never seen before,
flew from its garage like a grey-
hound released from its box.
With young Trinder hunched
like a berserk monkey over the
steering wheel, and ten beaming
youths posed nonchalantly, the
engine cut the corner, missing
Burney by barely a foot. He
yelled, and grabbed at a pro-
jection. Down the street they
whizzed with gathering speed so
that when they came to the
downhill grade they simply
bounced out of sight: but not
before the onlookers saw Burney
being hauled to safety, his legs
sticking out the back like a pair
of frantically snipping scissors.
Everyone agreed that they had
never seen such a dramatic sally-
ing-forth, and several voiced the
opinion that “the kids had been
nesting on it waiting for some-
thing to hatch.” Lou Jenkins
said, “Prob’ly some old shed or
somepun they’ve set afire to
apurpose.”
All this time the firebell
clanged hysterically. As no
fire could be seen. Win decided
to wander around and interro-
gate the ardent bell-ringer. Ten
or so others had decided the
same thing, and as Win walked
at his usual leisurely pace he
arrived last. The first thing he
heard was the excited voice of
the übiquitous Coombes.
“In the roof it was. Going
like ruddy hell.”
“Those kids won’t be able to
save that dump,” said someone.
■lt’ll go up like a matchbox.”
Charles tensed his arms to
renew the dancing of the bell,
but Win cried out: “That’s
enough of that noise! You’ve
got everyone out now. There’s
only the cemetery left.”
At the sound of his voice
everyone turned.
“Struth,” said Barry Wilkin-
son, “you’re a cool customer,
Win. There’s your place blazing
its head off . .
Win laughed. “Don’t try any
of your leg-pulling on me. 1
saw which way the engine went
—straight for the other end of
the town. Is it going to fly over
the paddocks to my place, or
what?”
There was silence, and the
group of people stared interro-
gatively at the petrified Charles.
For once his wide-eyed inno-
cence had deserted him.
“Gawd!” he whispered. “I for-
got to tell them where it was!”
“Now, what deviltry’s going
on here?” demanded Win
grimly, “Come on. Where’s the
tire?”
“It’s your place all right, Mr.
Carter,” said the subdued lad.
Without further ado, Win be-
gan to run up the road. When
he turned the Agricultural Hall
corner he could see his house on
the hill belching smoke and
flames from its caved-in roof, all
its windows alight with a fulig-
inous crimson. As though he
had run into a glass wall, Win
fell back a step or two and stood
still. The spittle dried on his
lips like veneer, so that they
were fixed in a grimace of pain.
Groups of people were hurrvine
alone the road and on the
n f thp , un. ’ . n
f .. ~ , tall
°Lc eraugable Mr.
a \ nx JUv*. DOWS cutting the
. n j r-l, n u saws ; ,! n
t ’ e automatically
K • \^ nC T>° n u e » Start f d
QC . ui n ,™: r ' ZT • y s wake
" ® e ere
, r , _ .
JL • e ln^ u 5?., r b r p‘ en g in c
• ar PZ ea at . uflgan s man-
sl.on mmu J™. a i,* er j
a arm ‘ ~ disgorged its flustered
*°u yoU !fl S !r ? n<i t “ e yar ,
°* , those. Make way make
Way * ®brilled voices, which
Were su s^ en y stilled by the
ngry b?o m{ ng of Burney
CoWan ; left,
, y °t f f OO S \u w,i hmg w , lth
rom + tho Mflligan tanks.
the hoses at last spat their hiss-
mg streams into the flames and
ciasnmg timber. A cloud of
steam rose instantly and bil-
lowed like a genie into the
s^y wb ere, unmolested by either
breeze or air-current, it towered
menacingly.
Win, who had retreated to the
far end of the privet-trees, in
order to escape oppressive con-
dolences, now turned away in
angu j s h from the destruction,
Moving along the fence he came
upon big Tim, who was loung-
ing against a post. Tim looked
at him with embarrassment,
“Bad business, old chap,” he
mumbled.
“And now I suppose you’ll
say I set fire to it,” croaked Win.
“Now look here, old chap, I
was only having a go at you
same’s you’re always having at
others.”
“Well, someone else besides
you must’ve been having a go
at me, too,” remarked Win
tensely.
“It was prob’ly the electricity,”
said Tim, anxious to say the
right thing, because he liked Win
and was sorry for him, but of
course did not care to say so.
“Coombes was telling me you
were complaining . . .”
“It wasn’t the electricity,” in-
terrupted Win curtly, “because
the fuse was blown.”
“Well, electricity’s a funny
thing. Perhaps the fire started
before the fuse blew. Or perhaps
it was your fire—did you have it
alight?”
Tim wished he could escape.
Like most indolent people, he
always liked to turn his back on
trouble.
“Yes, it was alight, with the
door closed. I remember that
distinctly!”
Tim shuffled his feet. Sud-
denly he had an inspiration.
“Well, at least you have your
golf-clubs. Thanks to young
Coombes.”
Win was instantly alert.
“Young Coombes! What’s he
got to do with it?”
“Why, haven’t you heard?
He saw the place alight. Raced
in to see if anyone was in the
front rooms, saw your golf-clubs
in the hall, and grabbed them.
They’re down at the fire-station,
I believe.”
Instead of displaying gratitude
or elation. Win said curtly, “Oh,
they are, are they? Well I
better see about them.”
He skirted the crowd and then
went straight down to the fire-
engine. There he found Burney
Cowan.
“Why don’t you stop those
pumps?” he said. “You’re only
draining Milligan’s tanks for
nothing. The place was as good
as gone when you got here.”
Burney jumped down from
the engine. “Look here, Mr.
Carter,” he said anxiously, in
a low tone, “I know it’s hard
on you, but the least said the
best, I think, or we might get
a lot of these young fellows into
serious trouble, and some of
them have good jobs. It’s like
this —you know what young
fellows are like —they wanted to
try their hand out while they had
a chance, it seems, and they
kinda arranged for young
Coombes to set alight to that old
barn down on Henty’s place
near the falls. And when young
Coombes runs in and starts
swinging the bell, they just
moved out. And that’s the
strength of it. And in any case,
I’m afraid we couldn’t have
saved your place—it went up
like a packet of crackers.”
Win compressed his lips.
“And how did the barn go up?
Like a hydrogen-bomb?”
“The barn wasn’t alight. It
seems young Coombes got cold
feet when he got down there and
came back without lighting it.
That’s how he came to notice
your place. I believe the back of
your place was like an inferno,
even then.”
A conviction that young
Coombes was responsible for
the fire took possession of Win.
He asked thickly, “Where’s
young Coombes?”
“Well-1, he was here a moment
ago, but you know what he’s
like—a blooming flea. He did
say he was going to get his bike.
1 overheard his mother telling
him he was to be in bed in ten
minutes —or else. But I don’t
think that’d cut much ice with
his nibs.”
“Oh well, I’ll be on my way,”
said Win vaguely. He had
decided to go up to Coombes’s
place and await the arrival of
Charles, so he set off up the
road, his head bent forward, his
shoulders sagging.
AS he drew level with the
now-dying fire, his wife’s
voice hailed him from a parked
car.
“Win!” she cried, urgently.
He went over to her.
“Weil, Mary,” he said huskily.
The first thing she asked was:
“It was insured, wasn’t it. Win?”
'There was a tremulous anxiety
in her low voice.
“Yes. £500.” In spite of him-
self, Win was hurt to find that
she could be so practical about
their loss. Their home and all
their belongings had gone, and
all she could think of was the
insurance. He could not resist
the perverted pleasure of striv-
ing to establish her culpability.
“You probably put a hoodoo
on the place with all your moan-
ing,” he said, “You had me
running round like a dog with a
tin on its tail, and young
Coombes gets wind of it and
puts a match to it.”
She was aghast. “Oh, surely
not! Who saw him?”
“No one, probably. But I’ll
bet anything you like that’s what
happened.”
“But you can’t say things like
that. You must have proof!”
When he did not reply she
said gently, “You will really be
extremely foolish if you try to
prove Charles did it. . What
proof have you? It’s only your
word against his. Why, he
could just as easily say you set
fire to it. And law-suits are so
dreadfully expensive, and then
we’d lose the insurance. And
Charles would be sent to a re-
formatory, which wouldn’t do
him or us any good at all. .Do
be sensible. Win.”
He said savagely: “I don’t
think you care a hoot about the
place being burned to cinders,”
She hesitated, then said firmly,
“I’m sorry for you, dear; but
I’m glad it’s gone.”
Nothing else could have dissi-
pated his anger so completely.
Although in his bitterness he
had made the accusation he had
never for one moment expected
her to say it was true. For the
first time in his life, he realised
that in unshared grief there is
inescapable isolation.
There was silence between
them, and so the squeaking of
the bike and the tintinnabulation
of the tin against its handle-bar
support came sharply to them
as Charlie Coombes approached.
When the boy drew level. Win
stepped forward and put a
restraining hand on the cross-
bar. He rapped with his
knuckles against the tin, and the
resultant sound proclaimed it
empty.
He asked grimly: “What did
you do with that petrol you had
in this tin when I saw you at
your place?”
“Petrol!” cried Charles.
“What petrol?”
“You had petrol in this tin.
I heard it flopping about.”
“Break it down, Mr. Carter,”
the boy said, wide-eyed with
astonishment. “It was empty,
same as it is now. What wiv the
fire’n everything, I didn’t have
time to get any. And now
Dad’ll go crook on me for clean-
ing the bike wiv his petrol.”
Win flipped the tin several
times with horny finger-nails.
At last he said: “I believe you
were good enough to rescue my
clubs. Burney Cowan tells me
the back was going like wild-
fire when you went in. Do you
think that’s where it started?”
“Sure thing, Mr. Carter. Gee
whiz, when I opened that front
door, it was like looking into
an inferno.”
“You said, when you opened
the front door?” asked Win
slowly.
“That’s right. I thought I
better see if you’d come home
and gone to bed like, so I nipped
on to the veranda and opened up
the door, and . . .”
“Do you know what I think?”
demanded Win suddenly, “I
think you set alight to my place,
nicked off with the clubs and
planted them and then picked
them up before you went down
to the fire-station. In fact, I am
taking you home, and I am going
to have it out with your father.”
“I did not! ” cried Charles.
“You probably lit it yourself
and you’re trying to make out I
did it. I heard what you and
old Tim said. You just did it to
get the insurance. Think I don’t
know!”
“There is one thing you don’t
know, my lad,” said Win grimly.
“And it’s a pity for you, you
didn’t know it before you went
all round the place saying you’d
barged in my front door. You
can’t just turn a handle and open
a door with a Yale lock, you
know, unless you have the key.
And as it happens, I have the
one and only key.”
With Charles whimpering
miserably, they set off. There
was no triumph in Win’s heart.
THE “BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 269
Across
I—Leave1 —Leave the operatic star lady who
could barely protest. (6)
4—Birds leave the supporters of
broken arms. (8)
9 Sleepers to book innovations. (9)
10— Pronoun. (2)
12—Cuttlefish ape is mixing this color.
(5)
14— Bluejacket covering for a road.
(3)
15— Part of a window band. (4)
16— The haul includes this dance. (4)
18— Pinch rats in hiding in a
Digger’s hat. (9)
19— Feeds the friar’s family in folds.
(5)
20— Victorian town supplies current
to the buzzer. (5)
22 —Be too exultant to tilt a skirt
spreader. (9)
25—Faire across the Channel causes
a commotion. (2-2)
-7—Girl with angina losing her pri-
Y^ te American heart. (4)
28 The objective aimed at death, for
instance. (3)
29 American State nightbird with a
dirty look. (5)
31— Chinese mile. (2)
32 According to the Italian, 31 intro-
duce the “last case” detective
and I to an international political
organisation. (9)
33 — Stretch out the Spanish on the
entrance. (8)
34 — Mother is to invite the cloth
domino on the American crime-
fighter. (6)
Down
1— About the descent of Tunney,
for instance, with a muscular
twitch. (7)
2 Fellow who may be out of his
depth with the “enemy,” and not
otherwise a composition. (12)
3 I intervene in Chopin’s dances
in such cases. (7)
5 Expel where the French rue. (4)
6 What they wear at court, just
in case. (3-4)
7 Hens’ bundles. (7)
8 — A meeting begins with the tree’s
vestige. (5, 4)
11—Steel canonises this creature. (3)
13 —Frier picked a rug up for an
Ecuadorian tennis-player. (6, 6)
17 —Where the earthquake originates
heroic poetry to come in last. (9)
20 — Spirit of the has-been. (7)
21 — Jonathan’s tenant has two fish.
(7)
23 Faculty girl upset to the stars.
(2, 5)
24 Block of note-paper to cut a
field toad. (7)
26—Hooter. (3)
30 —Let it stand the test badly. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 268


.
'
I:-:--
'Smm
\
V
:
•%,
*■
est of two worlds
goes to make
strong Australian
BROWN
\ V\ i
A
• ■■■•.
■
Mil
.
I'M
?: ■ ; " > : : ■. : ■' '■ :
■ ■ . : . ■ ...
HI
■
■
mmi
,
Be proud that the paper your parcels
were wrapped in today is Australian-made
Long-fibred softwood pulp from overseas, and short-fibred hardwood pulp from'.
Australia’s Eucalypts, combine their best qualities in Australian-made brown paper.
Long and short fibred pulps, blended in scientifically controlled proportions during
manufacture, result in a high quality, strong and durable brown Kraft Paper.
• . . and not only the paper! The cartons containing your favorite breakfast cereal,
washing powder, toothpaste and digestive tablets . . . the thousand-and-one com-
modities now contained in strong hygienic cartons ... account for ton-upon-ton of
Australian-made cardboard.
‘ i *.
f*: '**<■
■#J ~M
.
y'- ;; '
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LIMITED
Aikman Street, South Melbourne. McCauley Street, Matraville, N.S.W.
Makers of Raw Material for the Wrapping and Packaging Trade
