

THE HOUSE
ẁ
OF SEPPELT
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
Beginning : “HAVE PATIENCE, DELANEY!”
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3870
Wednesday, April 14, 1954
Price 9d*
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
STONEHENGE,
INTERESTING RELIC
OF A BYGONE AGE
ŵ


The Red Page
SPEAIGHT AND ELIOT
It is, rather surprisingly, not the poet
T. S. Eliot whose plays and poems he has
so often presented on the radio, but the
novelist George, born Mary Ann Evans
in 1819, whom Robert Speaight talks
about in George Eliot (Barker: English
novelists series); and while the poet might
be of more immediate interest, a reviewer
who once met Mr. Speaight at an A.B.C.
cocktail-party and, some time previously,
was imprisoned with George Eliot in a
plane dying through a storm from
Mackay to Sydney, cannot but be in-
trigued to learn what the critic can pos-
sibly say for this impossible novelist.
It was Romola that one read on that
memorable flight from north Queensland.
Outside, there were grim grey clouds
hurtling past and blotting out the sky-
scape and the landscape except for
occasional horrible glimpses through the
mist of something stony, a long way
down, on which one could bump. Inside,
the plane had a most peculiar appearance,
from a seat near the back, of an agitated
spiral-staircase; it seemed to balance on
its tail and climb through the storm like
a corkscrew.
To read Romola in normal circum-
stances is an act of heroism. Here it was
simply cowardice. Anything, eve
Romola, was preferable to the terrifyin
view outside, the equally alarming interio
One would be found when the plan
crashed, like the drowned Shelley wit i
his book of poems, still clutching tha
dreadful novel.
Yet there were times, as the smooth
impeccable prose went on and on, as jaw
breaker succeeded jawbreaker in remorse
less procession, as that wealth of useless
information about the Renaissance flowec
irresistibly nowhere without ever comin
to life with a resounding “Zounds!”
in the nostalgic trifles of poor Jeffre
Famol, when one wondered. There were
it seemed, worse things than a plane
crash: and one of them, in all admira
tion be it said, was Romola.
One turns, then, to Mr. Speaight with
a certain suspicion. If he is going to
praise Romola there is no more to b
said; one talks a different language. Bu;
Mr. Speaight says, with a beautifui
brevity and candor:
And she started work on Romola. No
book was ever to give her so much trouble
as this one, and none, let us brutally admit,
was so little worth the pains she spent on it.
He goes on, it is true, to suggest that
though today “it has few readers and it is
safe to predict that it will have fewer
still tomorrow,” the novel is not, “taken
in its considerable bulk, at all unread
able.” That is certainly an exaggeration
a very wild statement indeed ; but one
must say something favorable when one
is writing a book about George Eliot
and having, as Mr. Speaight seems to have
done, struggled right through Romola to
write his monograph—the reviewer was
half-way through when the ’plane merci-
fully landed at Mascot—it is natural
enough to assert that it isn’t completely
unreadable.
About the best thing Mr, Speaight says
of his novelist, if it is not when he com-
ments on her “massive and persistent
seriousness,” is when he defines her
genius as “the combination, not always
perfectly balanced, between a masculine
intelligence and a feminine sensibility.”
That is exactly what the present reviewer
has always thought, not only about The
Mill on the Floss and Adam Bede (two of
George Eliot’s novels that do remain,
with difficulty, readable and impressive),
but also about the equally impressive and
equally difficult masterpiece of our Aus-
tralian Henry Handel Richardson, The
Fortunes of Richard Mahony. It is the
heavy masculinity of both these writers—
a masculinity not quite right, but mixed
with feminine sensibility “not always per-
fectly balanced”—that at once daunts and
impresses the reader; as if, like a pair
of Russian steamrollers, they were deter-
mined to crush him as flat as a roadway ;
as if they sat on him.
Mr. Speaight is surely not quite right
when, opposing Yeats’s dictum that
George Eliot “seemed to have a distaste
for everything in life that gives me a
springing foot,” he denies that she was a
puritan. It is all very well for some
champions to point to the facts of her life,
which was certainly a little erratic (first
she lived “in sin” with a married man ;
then, at the age of 59, she married a man
18 years her junior, with whom she read
Dante and went to art galleries); and it
is all very well for Mr. Speaight to point
to broadminded passages in her writing
and a daring paragraph from Middle-
march in which Gwendolen objects to
Grandcourfs kissing her under the ear:
but all is overweighed by what Oscar
Browning described as her “moral
grandeur.” It is hard to be morally grand
—and George Eliot undoubtedly was
both —without being shaded, as it were,
by puritanism. She could indeed tolerate
the world; but she could not laugh at it.
But Mr. Speaight is, all the same, very
interesting on Middlemarch; a novel
which, to his shame, this reviewer has
not yet dared to attempt:
Middlemarch has made its way, rather
slowly, into the ranks of the uncontested
classics. As Mr. Leavis justly says, it is the
only one of George Eliot’s novels to bear
throughout its length, although not in its
every detail, the mark of her mature genius.
In brief, it is that rare conquest of the
creative mind —a masterpiece... .We are left
with the single, satisfying thought that this
is the novel that Geoge Eliot came into the
world to write.
It must, then, be one of the novels one
came into the world to read. And the
next time one is caught in an aeroplane
in a storm, or imprisoned in a sunken
submarine, or marooned by a flood on a
housetop, Middlemarch, thanks to Mr.
Speaight, shall be read. But not —not ever
again— Romola.
New Guinea Novel
Jon Cleary’s new novel, The Climate
of Courage (Collins), brings some Aus-
tralian soldiers back from the Middle
East, gives them leave in Sydney, takes
them up to New Guinea in the early
stage of the battle for that island, and
takes leave of the survivors on their way
back to Sydney after a terrible trek to
safety through Japanese-held territory.
The lieutenant goes home to his beauti-
ful, half-Jewish, ex-ballet-dancer wife
and his two children and is welcomed.
The wife of the sergeant V.C. lies awake
at Katoomba and quietly explains that
she just doesn’t love him any more, she
can’t say why.
The sardonic character whose father
had killed himself on discovering his
mother with another man is turned down
by a former light-of-love in a newly-
acquired American accent, but she had
never been especially his; and he soon
finds solace with the daughter of a huge
Darling Point mansion whom he meets
at a dance for soldiers —Mr. Cleary’s
ability to draw the girl and her vague,
public-committee-joining mother is more
that of the thumbnail caricaturist than of
the society-painter.
After a party at Vauciuse these two
lovers are going home by ferry when
the Japanese submarines make their cele-
brated attack upon the Chicago ; and it
is fancifully suggested that a ferry-boat
laden with passengers was among the
victims of the Japanese torpedoes that
night. In Australia, of course, we have
no means of judging how much, such a
writer as Edgar Wallace, or even Charles
Dickens, pushed the facts about to get
his stories into shape; and we do not
know how prepared English people are
to accept such changes to scenes and
circumstances of which they have first-
hand knowledge. But if Mr. Cleary’s
ferry seems curious to us in Sydney, it
will no doubt seem matter-of-course to
people elsewhere; and as his invention
of it does not, as happened in another
Australian war-time novel, tendentiously
misrepresent the circumstances, it provides
a suitable-enough way of throwing the
soldier and the rich daughter firmly and
finally together and notifying their en-
gagement to her vacuous mother.
But Mr. Cleary is more at home in
military-police headquarters when the
V.C., on a bender to protest against his
wife’s lack of love for him, is brought in
and bashed by one of the string of pro-
fessional pugilists who were M.P.s in the
early part of the war. When the unit is
recalled from leave and sent training in
Ingieburn and the Blue Mountains, a few
details of training-life, a scene of the ser-
geant and his friend going-through to
Sydney and dodging the M.P.s at Central,
and a well-remembered stream of soldier-
slang, bring back those days vividly.
The unit is next seen in the middle of
things in New Guinea. They are am-
bushed by the Japanese, fight them off
and, losing men ah the way, march over
mountains until they are picked-up by
Americans. This march invites com-
parison with Hungerford’s patrol in The
Ridge and the River. Being only an
incident in a novel, it has not of course
the rounded quality of Hungerford’s
complete treatment; the character-studies
are not so penetrating; the scenes are
not painted so richly.
But Cleary has his compensations; his
gift for the general scene, and the view
of life that is more shared than individual,
has brought him a wide public; and to
this he adds, as in his first novel, You
Can’t See Round Corners, an ability to
raise moral problems. In his first book,
this grafted a Catholic morality-play upon
the model of the American gangster-
novel—a curious combination, if you like.
In this book, with a priest looking-on—
and disapproving—he has his harried
lieutenant shoot dead his major, who is in
the last throes of death from scrub-typhus.
The major has always been hated by the
unit. With scrub-typhus, he is a drag on
the weary marchers. Moreover, the
longer he is with them, the more possibly
he will infect them. So the lieutenant
orders a grave dug and shoots the major.
Though monstrous things do happen
in war this incident really seems in-
credible, and one prefers to regard it,
like the sinking of the ferry in Sydney
Harbor, as one of the distortions of best-
selling fiction.
BEACON
This man in the blue-striped guernsey, this
semaphore,
Just why he plays, he does not know.
Halfback
In the tide, little less than a mile off shore,
On the sand-flats, where tubby boats tack
The slack channels, side-step his post and
slats.
He’s hard as knuckles, can take a good
blow;
Tackle of tides won’t pull him down.
What’s
In his football make-up makes him slow
To come ashore with driftwood, stuck,
As he is, in the bay mud? Only a boat’s
tackle,
A kick from its keel, in the storm’s ruck,
Would send him off field; would buckle
His straight, hard knees; break up the line
Of beacons that stand like footballers
astern.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
"The Dying Stockman "
The Dying Stockman, by Hugh Ander-
son (Ram’s Head Press Melbourne), is an
investigation into the source of this tre-
mendously popular Australian old bush
song-—probably, along with “Waltzing
Matilda,” almost the only one which
nearly everybody knows, from its first
verse and chorus:
A fine, stalwart stockman lay dying,
His saddle supporting his head,
While his mates all around him were crying,
He rose on his elbow and said:
Chorus.
Wrap me up with my stockwhip and bluey,
And bury me deep down below,
Where the dingoes and crows cannot find
me,
In the shade where the coolibahs grow....
to its last mournful stanza:
But hark! ’tis the howl of the dingo,
Watchful and weird—l must go;
For he tolls the death-knell of the stockman
Who soon will be lying below.
Many people, too, have long known
that the “Stockman” derives from “The
Tarpaulin Jacket,” the words of which
were written by Major Whyte-Melville
to a tune by Charles Coote—this tune
being the most common one used for
the “Stockman.”
The “Tarpaulin Jacket’s” first verse
and chorus are;
A tall stalwart Lancer lay dying,
And as on his death-bed he lay,
To his friends who around him were sighing,
These last dying words he did say—
Chorus.
Wrap me up in my tarpaulin jacket,
And say a poor bpffer lies low,
And six stalwart Lancers shall carry me
With steps solemn, mournful and slow.
Mr. Anderson goes further than this—
in concise, readable and fully docu-
mented notes he traces the similarity be-
tween “The Tarpaulin Jacket” and an-
other old British ditty, “Rosin the Beau,”
a gentleman who, visualising his likely
demise, asks:
Just get four jovial young fellows
And let them all staggering go,
And dig a deep hole in the meadow
And in it toss old Rosin the Beau
Mr. Anderson also quotes a later Aus-
tralian parody, dating from 1901, “The
Dying Digger,” whose moribund hero is
a miner; and notes the common interpo-
lation of one of the verses from a version
of “Botany Bay.”
Along with investigating the source of
the poem, Mr. Anderson argues against
certain critics who have claimed “The
Dying Stockman” and similar bush songs
as “the anonymous product of the people,
as indigenous culture,” He points out
that “The Dying Stockman” bears “all
the marks of individual authorship or,
rather, parodyship.” One feels that, so
far as claiming individual authorship,
Mr. Anderson is correct. The authors of
these songs are often quickly forgotten
and their works do, in a sense, become
anonymous, just as, even if they origin-
ated overseas, they become “indigenous”
by adoption; but many of the old bush
songs can, in fact, be traced to a definite
author. Usually the words become cor-
rupted with repetition.
The little book itself, as described by
the publishers, is “The first of the Black
Bull Chapbooks, devoted to little-known
aspects of Australiana, and in particular
the study of early colonial ballads.”
These chapbooks are to be issued in
limited editions and at a price which may
limit the acquisition of them to collectors
rather than to the general public—which
is a pity. The series is to include,
with music for singing, “Two Songs of
’57” (hitherto unpublished goldfields
songs by Thatcher, “The Colonial Min-
strel,” with some information about this
mysterious character gathered by Mr.
Anderson in Bendigo); “Bushranger
Jack Power” ; “The Stockman” ; “Botany
Bay” ; “Song of the Trap” and “Sly Grog
and Gold Duty.”
Bound in limp short-hair calfskin and
beautifully printed on Tudor Antique
paper the book is, with Ronald G.
Edwards’s lively and finely-executed linn,
cuts, a first-rate production—artistic with-
out being in any sense “arty crafty.”
Reviewed Briefly
Saints in Hell: Gilbert Cesbron
(Seeker & Warburg). A recent bestseller
in France, this novel has for hero one of
the French worker-priests whose activi-
ties have been in the news a good deal
lately, following the Church’s decision to
abandon its project of using ordained
priests working in factories, mines and
so on as a weapon against Communism.
As a revelation of French industrial con-
ditions, and of the poverty and ignorance
of many of France’s workers, the book
—whose author is a staunch supporter of
his Church and extremely anti-Com-
munist—is of considerable interest. Unfor-
tunately, whatever excellences as a novel
it might have had in the original version
have been lost in a hasty and pedestrian
translation which makes the book such
soggy reading that it is unlikely to appeal
to a general English-speaking audience.
* * * *
Divided They Fall: A one-act play by
L. V. Atkinson (Gaythorne Publications,
Brisbane). Dealing with “the Queensland
Shearers’ Strike of 1891,” the play at least
does not lack action;
In a flash Vellairs points his pistol at
Adams; simultaneously, Adams points a
revolver at Vellairs, but before either can
fire Mrs. Lister, swaying on her knees be-
tween these two men intent upon killing
each other, arrests them with a terrible cry
—a cry that checks them as though they
were turned to stone.
Mrs. Lister : Richard —he is your father!
Geoffrey, he is your son —our son! Oh,
merciful God!
With a moan, she slips to the floor and
lies there at Vcllairs’s feet, her crumpled
form shaking with convulsive sobs. For
a long moment there is complete silence; no
music is heard, no voices, only the sound
of bitter sobbing coming from the woman
lying on the f100r....
* * * ♦
La Fontaine: Monica Sutherland
(Cape; Australasian). For those who know
La Fontaine only by name or through
the amiable and slightly tedious little
Fables in the Everyman’s Library trans-
lation this pleasant biography contains
some surprises: first, an exceptionally
lively and charming dust-jacket of a
purple grasshopper; next, the frontis-
piece portrait of an unexpectedly robust
fabulist with a long nose, a humorous
mouth and an immense 17th-century
wig ; and next, such information as that,
as well as the Fables, La Fontaine wrote
the scandalous Contes and that he was
so absent-minded a parent that on one
occasion, being presented to his own son,
he “felt an immediate liking” for this
dimly-familiar young stranger. This is
the first book on La Fontaine and his
work to be published in England.
* * * *
The Men Who Ruled India; Vol. 1.
The Founders: Philip Woodruff (Cape;
Australasian). The British have left
India, as the Romans left Britain, but of
course something remains: laws, roads,
buildings, an incalculable influence on the
national character. It is in this light that
Mr. Woodruff examines the men who
created and bequeathed that inheritance:
a rich and colorful history when it takes-in
such names as Warren Hastings, William
Hickey and Clive, and an extremely
valuable one when, to take a simple
instance of the British reforms that are
so often forgotten in anti-imperialist
propaganda, one comes across such an
observation as “Burning widows alive was
a worse problem” ... The Founders takes
the story down to the Mutiny, and the
second volume will be entitled The
Guardians.


B
4 r *
/' r
J&m
: : ■^•■S
liiiii
Sfli
iiiiiiiiiiiMi
i'-V
mm
mmx
iiiiiii
........ ai
:
Mrnmm
mmmm
:y>
&
isisii
»s
*
r
ffs
''o.l
r
=d
rr;
iiii
■
m.
& • i mm
liiiiiwiil
«
ii
r Sr** )• 4 .
■ .-A *k\
*5
, TRUTH IN ADVERTISING '
nthony Horderns'
X=?)
C?,UV
-Att GUARANTEED
When you buy your watch at Anthony Horderns’, you’re
buying a gilt-edged security. The dividends it pays are its accuracy
24 hours a day, its distinctive appearance and the time and
anxiety it saves you through the years. To keep your
watch well cared for in its long life, Anthony Horderns has a
speedy and inexpensive service for overhauls and repairs.
Watch Department, Ground Floor, Pitt Street
1. Gent.’s Stainless Steel “Tudor” Oyster 1 7 Jewel
Swiss Lever. Centre sweep, seconds hand,
luminous dial. All imported case on leather band.
Price, £26.
2. —Gent.’s Chrome Steel Back "Solix” 17 Jewel
Swiss Lever. Centre sweep, seconds hand,
imported dustproof and water-resistant case.
Antimagnetic. Leather band. £ll/16/-.
I—Gent.’s Stainless Steel “Roamer" 17 Jewel
Swiss Lever. Imported dustproof and water-
resistant case. Centre sweep, seconds hand,
luminous dial. Strong leather band. Price,
£l6/5/-. Roll Gold Steel Back, £2l/10/-.
4. Gent.’s Chrome Steel Back “Lavina” 1 7 Jewel
Swiss Lever. Dustproof and water-resistant case.
Centre sweep, seconds hand, antimagnetic, leather
band. £l4/10/-.
s —Gent'.’s Nickel Chrome Open Face Pocket
Watch. “Solix” 15 Jewel Swiss Lever Movement.
£B/10/-.
6. Lady’s Solid 9-carat Yellow Gold Solix 1 7
Jewel Swiss Lever movement; a very dainty watch
with black cord band with gold filled fittings.
£l7/7/6. Chrome steel back. £l3/4/-.
Stainless Steel and Expanding
WATCH BANDS!
7 and 8. Lady’s Commander link Watch
Band. Stainless Steel, 14/6. Gold filled, 33/6.
9. Gent.’s Stainless Steel Watch Band, 25/-.
10. —Gent.’s Handly link Watch Band. Stainless
Steel, 19/6. Gold filled, £3/6/-.
11. —Gent.’s Expanding Link Watch Band.
Stainless Steel, £3/5/-. Gold filled, £4/14/6.
12. —Gent.’s Handly link Watch Band. Stainless
Steel, 17/6. Gold filled, £2/3/6.
13. Lady’s Commander link Watch Band.
Stainless Steel, 14/6. Gold filled, 27/6.
8.30 BREAKFAST
We are now serving breakfast in our Second
Floor Dining Room from 8.30 a.m. Monday
to Friday. Bring your friends.
ADVERTISING
Horderns
A
nthoity
Anthony Horderns’, Box 2712,
G.P.O. Phone M 2401
i
Jm
m
m
mr
Ir
if
"Mk
m
i
m
m
m
m
m
4T
m
V:
m
m
cr
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
jfaj
m
mM
%
I
mm
m
#
£
#
m
M:
HR
i
m
1
M


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 14, 1954
Vol 75—No. 3870
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
FOR REAL PROSPERITY
The sittings of the current Federal Parliament end this
week, and with them an era. The Queen’s opening of
the final session marked the disappearance of the last
vestige of Australia’s remoteness from the world. The
fact that during the last week of the session Mr. Casey
will fly to Saigon in Indo-China and then arrive, via
Washington, in Geneva before the end of the month for
the conference on Korean peace emphasises how
close uncomfortably close—we have become to the
rest of the world, and how integral our problems now
are with those who live cheek-by-jowl with Communist
countries and the neighborhood threat of the hydrogen-
bomb.
In these circumstances it seems strange that Parlia-
ment should face the election campaign with no
important issues that are contentious, and that the
preoccupation of politicians should be more with the
redistribution of regimented votes as between elector-
ates through industrial developments and expansion
than with any other issue. In other words, that the
main seeds of danger to the Government should lie
in the prosperity and decentralisation which its sane
and sober rule has produced.
Rarely has the political scene exhibited a Govern-
ment so well armored against criticism as the Menzies
Government, and never before has a “Labor” Opposi-
tion been so hard put to it to find a crack in the armor
of its opponents. The country has been generally
prosperous within the limits imposed by trade-union
policy ; even in the period of drastic import-restrictions
unemployment was scarcely existent. The Government
has secured industrial peace in a way unknown under
any other post-war regime, in contrast to the con-
tinuous series of upheavals engineered by traitorous
agents of Moscow which marked the feeble and con-
senting rule of the Chifley-Evatt Government, to which
whatever the waterside-workers or the miners or the
building-workers said through their Communist leaders
was holy law. It has abolished blackmarkets, brought
about an abuandance of domestic and comfort-making
supplies, of the workers’ normal luxuries such as beer
and cigarettes, concomitants of steady work and steady
production through contentment in industry. It has
made the trade-unionists their own masters again
instead of the slaves of the cunning Red element.
And, generally speaking, it has produced stability and
given commerce, industry and finance the opportunity
and the confidence to plan ahead.
It is a paradox that such regimes which make for
contentment and smooth living are almost always
unspectacular, their deeds being taken for granted and
their virtues little remarked by those who benefit from
them. They have a humdrum quality of solidity and
lack the attractiveness of gold-brick Governments of
the Evatt-Chifley type.
At the same time the Menzies era appears to have
given Australia so much, partly through factors outside
local control such as the standards of world prices,
partly through the Government’s management of the
conditions produced by external opportunities, that it
is difficult even for “Labor” to invent the exhibition of
lures with which it normally wins elections.
It certainly has thought and hunted hard to find
expedients, but one after the other its prizes have
proved themselves either too dangerous to offer,
or even unacceptable or rated as impracticable by its
own followers.
Thus the abolition of the means-test had its turn
among Dr. Evatt’s samples, but many of his own fol-
lowers turned it down, and some of them, notably Mr.
Bourke of Fawkner, have opposed it publicly in a way
which has excised it from the realm of effective “Labor”
promises. A hope of “saving” the wheat industry
through the Pollard scheme seems to have become less
attractive since it has been discovered in the past few
days that world buyers of wheat may be unlikely to
co-operate in advertising “Labor” as the author of a
farmers’ millennium ; and various other plans from
which “Labor” had great hopes present no greater,
opportunities.
Yet the Government is not safe. It is a saddening
feature of Australian life that regimentation of thought
through “Labor”-controlled State education systems
and trade-union discipline is, with almost half the
population, almost as thorough as in Soviet Russia.
Hundreds of thousands vote “Labor” because the
unions tell them to vote “Labor”—sometimes “or else”
—and because they have been taught by insidious
propaganda from the cradle upwards that nothing
good can come from anywhere but the trades-halls
and the tortuous centres of intrigue manned by pub-
licans, ex-bookies, political adventurers and lawyers
looking for swift advancement, which call themselves
Australian Labor Party “executives.” They have been
taught that capitalism is an evil thing and continue to
believe it in the face of the exhibitions of the McKells,
the McGirrs, the Cahills, the Arthurs, the Theodores
and the fact that almost all the implementations of
great Labor principles have come from non-“ Labor”
Governments.
Historians will probably puzzle over the problem
why the Labor” party has been able to keep any
hold on the electorates at all in view of its decade-
long association with Communism inside its movement
and with pressure-groups outside operating in the
interests of liquor, gambling and even less desirable
businesses. But it is to be hoped that the present
phase is only a temporary one and that the fazed
Labor followers will at this poll begin to come out
of their mesmeric trance. As in its international posi-
tion, so in domestic affairs, Australia should be at a
transition stage to the acceptance of realities and the
commencement of a period like that through which
f as k een going for the past 20 years—a period
°f Governments which treat the nation as a business,
and in which the old demagogic politicians have been
replaced by Ministers of high business capacity holding
their offices for long terms and, though nominally
belonging to parties, governing and accepted by the
electorates largely on non-party lines.
Canada’s policy of Ministerial efficiency and
consistently sober government has paid huge
dividends m progress and development. The past three
years of government in Australia prove the equal
c ere P olic y opposed to experimentation in
ffie Marxian theory of the Evatts, the Calwells, the
Cahills and the Sheahans.
It's On for Young and Old
Apart from an undertaking to delouse the hydrogen-
u a and t 0 rebuild the Arbitration Court nearer to
the A.C.T.U.’s desire, Dr. Evatt has not yet disclosed
the ingredients of his policy-speech, but his lieutenants
in their various ways have been giving previews of it.
Only time will show whether the previews are genuine
glimpses of things to come or whether they fall into
the same category as the film-trailers sometimes seen
which are packed with provocative shots that have
been left on the cutting-room floor or the censor’s shelf
by the time the film is released.
The Doc.’s own first hint on the matter—after he
had reluctantly abandoned faith in the unemployment-
bogy as an election-winner—was given six months ago
when he expressed the opinion that the means-test for
pensioners could be abolished within the life of one
three-years Parliament. In the Budget debate he said
a Labor Government would increase the age-pension
to £4 a week and the permissible income to £2 15s.
Government members pointed out that this would
create the anomalous position that an elderly couple
on the pension could be receiving an income of £l3 10s.
a week, or £1 10s. more than the basic wage. There
was no reply to this from the “Labor” side of the
House, but that was not surprising, as all through the
Budget debate the Opposition seemed to be wearing
Unfair-to-Labor” placards around their necks.
Since the debate, however, there have been deter-
mined efforts to shake off responsibility for Evatt’s
remarks on the means-test. These have varied from
the evasive promise of deputy-leader Calwell to “do
justice to all those who needed an increase in pensions”
to the straightout condemnation expressed last month
by the member for Fawkner, W. M. Bourke, when he
said on the air that certain people were trying to trap
Dr. Evatt into including abolition of the means-test in
his policy-speech. He didn’t name the urgers or say to
which party they belonged, but the ears of several
“Labor” members near to the Doc. must have burned
if they heard the broadcast.
Bourke said of the proposal,
It lias only one thing; to commend it—winning;
a few votes as a short-term political expediency-
hut it would he done at terrible cost,
and he is quite right. His own estimate puts the cost
at £lOO million ; at “Labor’s” promised figure of £4 a
week it would be even more than that. Moreover, the
total would get progressively higher year by year, keep-
ing pace with the increase in the higher age-groups of
the population.
According to Bourke, “Labor’s” real policy is to
“gradually and progressively relax the means-test.” If
this is so, then it is indistinguishable from the one the
present Government has followed and apparently
intends to continue —which means it would be quite
useless for “Labor’s” election campaign.
Some liberalising of the means-test is obviously
needed, particularly in respect of persons already in
receipt of superannuation allowances provided by their
own contributions over the years and who now find
that their thrift has brought them little more reward
than is accorded the thriftless as a right. A national-
insurance scheme on a contributory basis seems the
only ultimate answer to this —and that is a measure
“Labor” has consistently opposed.
Another strong tip for the Doc.’s election-day
programme is Haylen’s scheme for marriage-loans.
There’s nothing new about it; Hitler and others tried
it, without any marked success. In its usual form it
provides for a loan of a few hundred pounds on
marriage, at low rates of interest, a portion (say £5O)
to be rebated on the birth of each child. If the
Haylen plan is to have anything more than “winning a
few votes” to commend it, it will have to be argued that
it will raise the marriage-rate, make it possible for
couples to marry earlier or that it will increase the
birth-rate.
• ?^ ie wo 1 hard put to plead any of these
points. Since the war the marriage-rate has been
consistently around nine per 1000 of the population
compared with 1\ per 1000 for the first 40 years of
Federation. The average age of both brides and bride-
grooms is lower now than it was in pre-war years and
the birth-rate is appreciably higher. Mr. Bourke would
surely apply the phrase “short-term political
expediency” to this offer also.
Closely allied to the marriage-loan proposal is
the talk of cheap housing loans” for young marrieds.
Calwell puts it this way: “Every couple contemplating
matrimony or already married should have the oppor-
tunity to buy homes on very low deposits and at
low rates of interest.” This sounds a very laudable
idea, and Calwell is careful not to give any hint as to
what he regards as a low rate of interest. Others are
not so guarded and talk blithely of 2 per cent, loans.
If the Doc. puts that in his policy-speech he will be
guilty of political expediency of the most blatant kind.
Amateur economists of the party may have convinced
him that it is feasible to lend money at 2 per cent, when
the market-rate is more like 4 per cent., but Mr. Bourke
could tell him otherwise. Such a plan would amount
to subsidising the young marrieds at the expense of
the old marrieds and other taxpayers. If resort was
made to bank credit for the money the resultant rise
in living-costs would mean that the whole community,
including pensioners, would be helping to subsidise the
favored borrowers.
That again may seem right and proper to Evatt
and his party, but in that case it is strange that they
did not introduce the scheme in 1949, when they were
on the Treasury benches, when the housing-shortage
was far more acute than it is today and the total
number of homes built in the year was only 57,926
compared with 76,609 in 1952-53.
Marriage-loans and low-interest housing-loans,
like the one-swoop abolition of the means-test, seem
to have only one thing to commend them —that they
will win a few votes. But, after all, in “Labor” eyes
what other commendation do they need?
Why Retire Earlier Than 65?
“M.F.D.”: The present agitation for an earlier
retiring-age for Commonwealth civil servants probably
springs from the lifting of the superannuation ceiling
by the Government a few years ago and the apprecia-
tion of the value of all superannuation-units without
additional contributions by the holders. Previously
the maximum number of units for which a Common-
wealth employee could subscribe gave him a retiring-
allowance at 65 only slightly higher than the present
basic wage. Today he can subscribe for a much higher
number (for which he has to pay his share, of course)
and with the appreciation of the value of each unit
can buy for himself on retirement a pension that will
ensure a reasonable standard of living even in these
days of inflated costs.
Before the ceiling was raised and the value of the
units increased few Commonwealth officers could
afford to retire before the compulsory age of 65
except through ill-health. Only a small proportion had
been able or willing to take the maximum number of
units, and, necessarily, the great majority stuck to
their jobs as long as possible. Today, with higher
salaries, a much higher superannuation-ceiling and
individual units worth a great deal more, the outlook
is entirely different. Many officers are now subscribing
for a number of units that will enable them to retire,
voluntarily, at 60, when they will be able to sell the
special knowledge and experience they acquired in
the service to some commercial concern for an even
higher salary than they had been receiving. This,
coupled with a substantial pension, puts them on top
of the world.
Sometimes a Commonwealth employee will retire
voluntarily at 60, either paying into the superannuation
fund a lump-sum to enable him to receive the same
pension as if he had continued to 65 or, if he is assured
of a good job outside, electing to accept the actuarial
value of his pension, which gives him a reduced income
without further payments to the fund. This works in
much the same way as the surrender of a life-assurance
policy. Only if a retired officer is employed again
by the Commonwealth Government or one of its
instrumentalities does he suffer any reduction in
pension; he can earn as much as he likes in private
employment and still draw full superannuation.
The value of superannuation-units has been
increased three or four times in recent years —at least
once by the Labor Government and twice by the
Menzies-Fadden Administration. The last two Budgets,
however, have left the value of these units untouched ;
which doesn’t immediately hurt the men still in the
service, but matters greatly to officers who retired
some years ago on small pensions and are now too
old to supplement them in any way. As a matter of
common justice, the Government should now come to
the assistance of these men rather than dip further into
consolidated revenue to enable present-day employees
to retire on comfortable pensions five years earlier
than their predecessors were able to do. Any man in
good health who is worth his salt should be content
to work till he is 65 at least. The man who wants to
get out of the service to take a better job shouldn’t
complain if his pension is cut while he’s doing it.
Only when he finally knocks off work is he morally
entitled to full superannuation.
The well-founded argument that it would be a
national tragedy if all Commonwealth employees were
compulsorily retired at 60 instead of 65 is unlikely to
count with civil servants who want to have their cake
and eat it too. If the Government really feels that it
would be for the public good if these men remained at
work till they are 65 it will have to take the initiative
pretty quickly.


w
|P
■ -~-f- ~ ’ ‘\“ "'JP'’ -2 tV"-— ">•-' / J? M
>.7 \ ~ \Tr "/ ■■■-"■'— I j \jr /y
THE SPREADING WEB


PLAIN ENGLISH
Defence and Sufficiency
The statements of the Press about defence
reorganisation gave the impression that
a revolution was about to take place and
the Army to be relegated to the dust-heap
save for the Citizen Forces; but this
scarcely seems to be the Government’s
intention.
All that has happened is that the Gov-
ernment has decided, very wisely, to bring
a too-weak Air Force up to its proper
percentage level in defence —Australia
has the weakest proportional Air Force in
the British Commonwealth, when it needs
the strongest. Sir Philip Mcßride gave
the proportions of defence votes for
1953-54;
Air
Navy. Army. Force.
U.K 24.4 38.9 36.7
Canada .. .. 17.6 28.3 54.1
Australia ~ .. 26 41.9 32.1
Canada, of course, has special undertak-
ings for British Commonwealth air-
training, but it is clear that, even allow-
ing for this, its proportion on air defence
is larger than Australia’s.
The unfortunate effect of the statement,
as published, is that it tends to depre-
cate the importance of a permanent
Army cadre and of the Fleet Air Arm,
and it is difficult to see how either can
be reduced to any material extent with-
out nullifying their usefulness altogether.
Australia’s Regular Army consists (on
establishment) of 26,000 men —at pre-
sent including a special reserve of 3000.
Of the total, 3150 are staffs for training
National Service men, 4457 at training in-
stallations, 8625 at base units, 2657 as
cadres for duty with the C.M.F., includ-
ing fixed defences, and 643 are native
troops in the Pacific Islands Regiment.
The field force is one brigade-group—
-5800 men —in fact, a force necessary to
keep one battalion regularly in the front
line in Korea under normal conditions
of leave and relief. The Defence Minister
admits that the field force cannot be
reduced until there is peace in Korea.
On the face of world affairs it can’t be
much depleted even then, and while it
remains much other manpower must
remain. Indeed, if the citizen forces are
to be built up from present strength of
about 71,000 to planned establishment of
114,000 there will be a call for more per-
manent men for training staffs.
Actually all that seems to be contem-
plated at present is to build up the existing
R.A.A.F. from 15,000 to the target figure
of 16,500 and add some land-based
machines in the north, while subtracting
from the R.A.N. some short-range
carrier-based machines and paring the
Regular Army if possible.
The whole change seems to be dictated
by economic reasons. It seems
an unsatisfactory policy. Admittedly
the R.A.A.F. should be expanded
and should have a priority; but
it is vital to defence internally, as all
defence authorities agree, to maintain an
adequate permanent-Army cadre, and to
anti-submarine operations to keep up a
proper Fleet Air Arm. And the country
should be made to pay for them.
The United Kingdom, struggling to
stability after a devastating war, main-
tains an Army of 800,000-odd men on a
basis with which ours can scarcely com-
pare because of the long-term service of
her national trainees, and the immense
amount spent on weapons and factory
establishments. Apart from U.S. contri-
butions, the little country’s bill this year
for defence is £1,600,000,000 sterling.
That of Australia, with a fifth the United
Kingdom population, is in the region of
£160,000,000 sterling.
The essential condition about Austra-
lian defence which the Government should
assure is that it is efficient, not that it is
cheap or cheesepared,
A Government Gets
Its Orders
The two Governments of New South
Wales had a little difference of opinion
last week, and as usual the one which
calls itself “her Majesty’s” climbed down
and took its orders from the one that
doesn’t mind what it is called so long as
its gets its own way. Premier Cahill had
said that a bill would be introduced to
amend the Factories and Shops Act to
allow petrol and oil to be sold at any
hour of the day or night, as had been
recommended by the Industrial Commis-
sion after a lengthy consideration —from
the commencement of the hearing until
the announcement of the court’s decision
almost 12 months elapsed.
As soon as Cabinet’s intention was
announced the real rulers at the Trades
Hall got busy. Mr. E. C. O’Dea is an
ex-Lord-Mayor and a Legislative Coun-
cillor, but those positions are very minor
ones in “Labor” eyes compared with his
real job as secretary of the Shop Assist-
ants’ Union, in which capacity he had
already indicated his displeasure with the
finding of the Industrial Commission.
O’Dea and officials of the Transport
Workers and Amalgamated Engineering
unions made it clear that they didn’t
want the alteration, and, as a result, the
proposal came under fire when Cabinet
referred it to caucus. That body set up
a sub-committee to consider the ques-
tion ; the sub-committee saw Mr. Landa,
the Minister in charge of the bill; Mr.
Landa saw the A.L.P. executive and
Trades Hall envoys saw everyone. The
outcome was that Parliament adjourned
for Easter—which, for Parliamentary
purposes, lasts until June 15 —without
the promised legislation being brought
before the House.
The most disturbing thing about this
government by Trades Hall is that Cahill
seems to think it only right and proper
that his Government should bow to the
opinion of union-secretaries. This is not,
after all, so surprising. During the same
week the N. S. Wales Premier told a
conference of police-officers that the
reason the Press attacked them was be-
cause they were numerically insignificant.
A couple of days later the conference
voted in favor of affiliating with the
Trades Hall after one delegate had said
that if they had made the move years
ago “the Press might have given us a
better go.”
The case of the petrol-selling hours,
unimportant as it may seem in the eyes
of non-motorists, shows once again how
a “Labor” Government finds it impos-
sible to govern once public interest con-
flicts with the vested interests of trade-
unionism. It was the same over con-
scription for service abroad during the
last war ; it was the same over the Pre-
miers’ Plan during the depression. It has
been hinted that while the petrol-selling
law will not be amended it will not be
enforced. In that case illegal trading
could soon become a running sore and a
source of corruption like the illegal s.p.
racket in the State.
Literature Looks Up
There used to be a considerable suspicion
—often voiced by Miles Franklin —that
the universities in Australia looked with
disdain upon our native literature as
something raw, rough, colonial and
trivial.
If that was ever true, as partly it may
have been, though H. M. Green lectured
on the subject at Sydney many years ago,
it has been becoming increasingly untrue
as Henry Lawson, Joseph Furphy and
even On Our Selection, with many other
books, both old and new, have come to
be recognised as classics of our red
earth.
All the university colleges have a num-
ber of lectures in Australian literature
each year, as part of the English course,
under the sponsorship of the Common-
wealth Literary Fund; and everybody in
the literary world is aware of the constant
support given it in academic circles by,
amongst others, such critics as R. G.
Howarth in Sydney, Brian Elliott in
Adelaide and T. Inglis Moore in Can-
berra. “Southerly,” essentially a maga-
zine of Sydney University, has in its
latest number essays on Katharine Susan-
nah Prichard and Bernard O’Dowd and,
with its poetry, short-stories and wonder-
fully belated reviews, is, in fact, practic-
ally all-Australian from cover to cover.
It still remains an astonishing fact,
however, that although there is a reader
in “the sources of Australian history” at
the National University in Canberra
there is not a single professor of Aus-
tralian literature in the entire continent;
not even anyone of the academic ranking
next to a professor, a reader —a state of
affairs very different from America,
where respect for the native literature has
long been firmly established.
A considerable step forward has been
taken by the appointment of T. Inglis
Moore, at Canberra University College,
as the first permanent lecturer in Aus-
tralian literature. Mr. Moore will deliver
two lectures a week throughout the
academic year on the history, develop-
ment and social background of our
books, dealing with the three periods:
colonial, nationalist, and modern.
Melbourne University, which controls
the Canberra college, has yet to decide
whether these lectures may be taken as
part of the degree course ; which, not
superseding the general study of English
but supplementing it, would be highly
desirable. It is a development which
should be extended to the universities
in all States.
A worth-while literature does exist. It
needs support and wider dissemination.
There is no place where this can be
better done than in the universities,
where youth and intelligence are at their
keenest.
Vietminh and Moscow
The fraternity of professors who have
been airing their imperfect knowledge of
the implications of the H-bomb may have
reason to be glad before the year is out
that the weapon exists in friendly hands.
For, as President Eisenhower said during
the week, the bomb is “a threat only if
a potential aggressor who has the secrets
of it determines to use it against us.” It
is unthinkable that any civilised nation
should ever make use of it except in the
direst extremity; but it is a strange fact
about professors in civilised lands that
they invariably seem to feel that all the
mire is in their own nest —the nest in
which they are fed and warmed without
even being asked how they vote.
There is again, as President Eisenhower
declares, “no need for jitters.” The H-
bomb at the moment may be the best
guarantee of world peace that exists, and
the publicity which has leaked out may
be a deterrent to Russia and China, whose
industrial resources are known to be
inferior to our own, whatever impres-
sion to the contrary has been produced by
a wholesale swallowing of Communist
propaganda. This, even though atom
warfare on the battlefield is still a long
way off and not likely to find a place on
the long and well-masked fronts on which
battles would probably take place in a
third World War.
Some deterrent is certainly needed at
the moment. The Indo-China position
every day grows more desperate, and it
is certain that the Vietminh are not con-
quering Indo-China for its own sake or
under their own steam. As mercenaries
for the great Soviet Union-Chinese bloc
of the North they are actually opening
the road to Burma, Malaya, Indonesia,
Australia, and the Western Intelligence
knows it.
If there were any doubt at all about
the matter it should be set at rest by a
passage of the speech of Malenkov at
Stalin’s funeral. This is reported in full
in “For a Lasting Peace,” the official
organ of the Cominform, published in
Bucharest, March 13, 1953:
Under the leadership of the Great Stalin
the mighty camp of peace, democracy and
Socialism has been created. Within this
camp the great Chinese people, the fra-
ternal peoples of Poland, Czechoslovakia,
Bulgaria, Hungary, Rumania, Albania,
the German Democratic Republic, the
Mongolian People’s Republic are advanc-
ing in close fraternal unity with the Soviet
people. In hard-fought battles the heroic
Korean people are defending the independ-
ence of their country. The people of
Vietnam are fighting gallantly for free-
dom and national independence. It is
our sacred duty to safeguard and con-
solidate the greatest gain of the peoples
—the camp of peace, democracy and
Socialism, to strengthen the bonds of
friendship and solidarity of the peoples
in the democratic camp.
Vietnam, of course, to Moscow, means
Vietminh, and in the same issue of “For
a Lasting Peace” is an interesting
announcement headed “In Embattled
Vietnam” which states that “all the
people of Vietnam are filled with pro-
found grief at the grave loss that has
befallen the peoples of the world. A five-
day mourning was announced throughout
the country by order of Ho Chi-minh in
token of profound respect for the teacher
and best friend of the people of Viet-
nam, Comrade Stalin.”
If this doesn’t satisfy the professors
there are a hundred other bits of evidence.
The Cominform invariably sets out to
condition the world for each new cam-
paign of Vietminh troops. It obviously
has long preknowledge of Vietminh
intentions.
Snowy Mountains Scheme
The Snowy Mountains scheme has come
back into the news again lately ; not that
a project of such magnitude could stay
out. of the headlines for long. Mr. W.
Hudson, the commissioner in charge of
the scheme, recently replied to those who
had been criticising the high cost of the
job. The 1948 estimate was £225 million ;
two years ago this was revised to £442
million, and critics then prophesied that
later estimates would bump it up to £6OO
million or even £lOOO million. Hudson,
in effect, says “Phooey” to that. His
experts now place the figure at £422 mil-
lion, which he claims merely parallels the
increase in the cost of most things, from
bread to government, since 1948. At the
same time, he claims that the electrical
capacity of the scheme has been increased
by one-third of a million kilowatts, and
that during drought periods it will now
be able, thanks to revised plans for water-
storage, to guarantee 50 per cent, more
power than was originally provided for.
The commissioner claims that the
Snowy scheme is financially sound on
power alone, without making any allow-
ance for the water diverted for irrigation;
also that it will produce power more
economically than steam-generating plant.
The first power from the Snowy should
be fed into the N. S. Wales system before
the end of this year, when the Guthega
powerhouse goes into production. This
will provide 60,000 kilowatts and by
1958-9 another 160,000 kilowatts will be
added, with a similar quantity a year or
so later.
These last two contributions will come
as a result of contracts let last week for
construction work on the Adaminaby-
f umut section of the scheme. The Ameri-
can Kaiser group of companies will put
a 14i-mile tunnel through the Great
Dividing Range to link the Eucumbene
and Tumut rivers and will build at Tumut
Ponds an arched concrete-wall dam
280 ft. high, also a pressure-tunnel to the
power-station to be built there. Tenders
have also been accepted from the English
Electric Co., Ltd., for water-turbines and
a Swedish firm for generators for that
portion of the project.
Airways Did Well
“In the ACT”: The Queen flew more
than 9000 miles in Australia, and 3192
passengers directly and officially associ-
ated with the Royal visit compiled an
aggregate of 1,307,459 passenger-miles.
There were 18 tons of freight, and 12,942
freight-ton miles. These are much more
than impressive figures in a country
where good flying conditions and efficient
operation combine to produce new records
every year ; they are, as the acting Minister
for Civil Aviation said, “an enduring
expression of her Majesty’s implicit con-
fidence in air transport as an essential
service, and Royal acknowledgment of
the efficiency and safety of the Common-
wealth’s aviation organisation.”
Air-services themselves are always a
little reluctant to talk about their own
safety records, in the slightly superstitious
belief that such claims may be followed
by some unhappy accidents, but the per-
formances on the Royal tour underline
the impressive totals of flying in Australia.
The eight different types of aircraft in
which the Queen flew while here, includ-
ing many civil planes, were seiviced on
the ground and handled in the air with
the utmost care —but so are the planes
in which thousands of Australians fly as
ordinary passengers every day. Press
representatives alone on the tour flew
530,557 passenger-miles, and those who
came from abroad were impressed by the
magnitude of the “airlift” and by the
satisfactory manner in which it was
handled by co-operation between the h.q.
of Civil Aviation and R.A.A.F. and the
airline operators.
The visit took place at a time when a
dispute existed between certain airlines
and their pilots over wages, a dispute
which is still unsettled and in which,
after brief direct-action by pilots, the
issues are back in an arbitrator’s hands.
This didn’t interfere with any of the
Royal flying plans, but it seems unfor-
tunate that while organisations and
pilots are congratulating themselves on a
meritorious performance they are unable
to reach amicable agreement in their
argument.
A fair number of Australian pilots
have recently been lured abroad
by tempting offers, and it is said
that among some sections in this
country there is a feeling of discontent
and grievance which cannot be good for
morale and which may therefore affect
safety. The problem is not an easy one
to solve, especially in the peculiar cir-
cumstances of competition between the
air services which exist in many parts of
Australia; but equitable settlement is
needed if good records are to be main-
tained and public confidence retained.
Election Prospects
From Molongloside:
With the closing of Federal Parliament this
week the election campaign will begin in earnest,
to determine on May 29, a day which “Labor”
might view without optimism as an omen, since
it is Oak Apple Day, King Charles the Second’s
birthday, celebrated in the British Army by
the change of the Guards from winter grey into
summer scarlet.
However, the last Gallup Poll gives each side
an almost equal chance, with the tide turning
towards the Government coalition; but not
for years has there been such an election,
with no issues at outset to excite interest,
no scandals outside of State “Labor” (where
in N.S.W. there is an overabundance), and few
schemes of vote-buying in view. It is the rare
kind of election, in fact, in which the campaign
is likely to decide the result, in which some
unforeseen issue which crops up in the next few
weeks may be decisive.
One reason for the unease and uncertainty
o Continued on next page)


on both sides is the shift of population since
last election. Until the supplementary rous
close the exact extent of this shift will not be
known, but it has become so far apparent that
the combatants regard it between hope ana
fear. . . „ .
In Queensland, as an instance, in Moreton,
the seat held by Mr. Francis, Minister for the
Army, the number of electors rose from 41,811
in 1949 to 48,477 in April, 1951. It is said
that a further rise of over 9000 has taken ptece.
On the other hand, Mr. E. J. Ward, in East
Sydney, had 42,307 on the rolls in 1949 and
40 471 in 1951. The votes cast in opposition
to him were almost the same at each election,
16,950 in 1949, 16,767 in 1951. Yet Mr. Wards
vote was 2117 less in 1951 than the election
before and his majority down accordingly. For
this election he will have 5000 less again, it
appears, which means that he can risk no
great slipping in his support. If the same kind
of voters have left his electorate as deserted
him in 1950-51 his goose might easily be
cooked. The same sort of thing has hap-
pened in Parkes, where Mr. Haylen won
by under 1400 last year; and, to a lesser
extent, it might seem, in Kingsford-Smith. But
the news fills Liberal organisers with only
relative happiness, for Labor support seems to
have moved out, perhaps with more ot their
breed, into St. George, won by Mr. Bruce
Graham by only 1200 against Mr. Lemmon,
and into Mitchell, which gained over 2000
voters between 1949 and 1951 polls and where,
last time, Mr. Roy Wheeler won by 3290 over
the combined “Labor” and Communist vote.
In Victoria the changes are just as striking.
Deakin, which had 45,280 voters in 1949, now
has 58,180. Latrobe’s numbers have climbed
from 43,395 in 1949 to an approximate 62,500
but on the last Senate figures Mr. Casey seems
safe. T. F. Timson’s Higinbotham, in which
the majority was about 4100, has accumulated
12 000 voters since 1949. And Hubert Opper-
man, who had only 139 majority, has another
2000 constituents to cope with since last elec-
tion, though, judging by the reception he had
in the streets during the Queen s visit, Dedman s
chance will be the usual Dedman’s chance, and
even “Labor” is not prepared to bet on him.
There seems to be fair chance that Mr. W. M.
Bourke (“Labor”) in Fawkner may be beaten
as the result of a fall in roll-rtumbers from
41 539 to 36,825—he had a majority of 2000
last time—and he himself seems to share the
opinion, judging by the vigor with which he
has spat out plans of “Labor’s” leaders. Flin-
ders, won from the Liberals at a by-election
after the death of Rupert Ryan, late in 1952,
looks, on the figures at the last Senate poll,
like reverting to Liberalism.
The complications as between the C.P. and
Liberals could at worst, in some seats like Indi,
transfer representation to another coalition can-
didate. The situation is more complicated m
Geoff Brown’s seat of McMillan, where he
faces a powerful and not very co-operative C.P.
opposition as well as that of “Labor and the
Communists, who opposed him last time.
In S. Australia everything seems pretty stable,
save for Sturt (Keith Wilson), where the fight
will be hard; and what “Labor” may lose m
W-A. through the departure from Mr. Burke s
Perth of 5000 electors, if the estimate
available speaks truly, may be picked up by a
gain through transfer of votes, “Labor votes,
to Mr. Hamilton’s Swan. .
However, the fact is that no organisation
seems to have a very definite idea of the
probable effects of the transfers.
On the whole, “Labor” seems to be at a
clear disadvantage. The Government has 68
seats to 53, so that Dr. Evatt must get eight
seats for a bare victory. And on the Gallup-
poll figures and other indications he can t do it.
POLITICAL POINTS
Political opinions of the value of
public - opinion polls vary with the
figures. Roy Morgan’s latest Gallup
shows Government stocks virtually level
with “Labor’s,” after trailing behind for
nearly two years. Now it’s “Labor’s” turn
to say the thing isn’t worth a bumper.
• •
Treasurer Fadden is Queensland’s
worst enemy, according to Calwell, who
also says it is Artie’s fault that Brisbane
has developed more rapidly than the rest
of the State. Then whose fault is it that
the same thing has happened with the
other State capitals? The drift to the city
has been going on for over half a century,
under all sorts of Governments.
• •
"Labor” has planned a Victory Ball in
Sydney for June 11. The hopes, of course,
are that it’ll be a Federal victory, but
just as anything can be an excuse for a
party, so can any victory be an excuse for
a Victory Ball. For instance, there’s
Cahill’s victory over Evatt minor. Or
Ernie O’Dea’s victory over Cahill.
• •
Cain has signed an agreement with
N.Z. Prime Minister Holland promising
the Dominion Government the proceeds
of a 10 per cent, levy on all Tatt.’s
tickets sold in that country. In return,
Tatt.’s will be permitted to withdraw
accumulated funds now held in New Zea-
land, amounting to about £240,000 ; pre-
liminary estimate of the annual gain to
Maoriland revenue is £120,000. If the
Brisbane Casket and the Sydney Blottery
weigh-in with similar offers it is hard to
see how Holland can refuse them.
• •
Egypt is threatening a purge of “cor-
rupted elements.” Sounds like a bid for
race suicide.
• •
One of the strangest reaons why the
N. S. Wales Police Force should affiliate
with the Trades Hall was given by the
cop who complained that at Lismore
during the Royal tour policemen were
given food unfit for human consumption
and that it wouldn’t have happened if
they had belonged to a trade-union. Next
thing we’ll be hearing of attempts to
bribe the police with a couple of meat-
pies and a bag of chips.
• •
Unofficial discussions have been held
in Canberra on the possibility of an early
referendum on a temporary alteration of
the Constitution, aimed at restoration of
simultaneous election for the Senate and
the House of Reps. At present half the
Senate is due to retire in June, 1956, and
if the next House of Representatives sits
for its full term its subsequent election
will be due about May or June, 1957.
The suggestion is for a referendum to
permit the present Senate to continue
until the same time. One thing certain
is that 30 Senators will be in favor of it.
• •
There has been a tendency in recent
months to speak as though this country
possessed almost unlimited reserves of
uranium. In sober truth the impression
is based on two fields —Rum Jungle and
Radium Hill —in actual production and
several areas which have made the geiger-
counters turn handsprings. Supply
Minister Beale, in presenting the first
annual report of the Atomic Energy Com-
mission, in the Federal Parliament,
stressed this point.
Beale also told the House that the
commission had submitted far-reaching
plans for atomic research and develop-
ment, and that power-generation from
atomic energy seemed certain to become
a reality within a few years. If the N. S.
Wales miners can stall off a little longer
the question of pillar-extraction there’ll
be no need for them to come to a deci-
sion at all.
• •
Some Federal electorates have
grown in numbers since the 1951
election. Latrobe, held by External
Affairs Minister Casey, is probably the
most swollen; there were 49,253 on the
roll in April, 1951, and by the end of
January this year the total had increased
to 62,458.
Biggest decrease is in Denison (Tas.),
Athol Townley’s seat, for which 31,209
were enrolled in 1951 as against 29,189
at the latest check.
• •
“In the ACT”: One reason why Can-
berra’s transport section doesn’t pay. At
the Civic Centre on a morning during the
final sittings of Parliament, a Government
Senator caught the bus for Parliament
House although, as a former Minister, he
could have summoned a Government car.
But a former “Labor” Minister (from
Queensland) and one of his back-bench
colleagues phoned for an official car.
The cost of the car and driver will be
part of the transport balance-sheet.
e •
Although the Doc. is on record as
saying that abolition of six-o clock closing
would mean the destruction of family life
in N. S. Wales he has remained silent as
to what is happening to family life in
Queensland, Tasmania and Westralia.
• •
Bringing in his bill outlawing housie,
Cain said that one promoter had been
THE ONE-BRAND NO-SERVICE STATION
making £5OO a week, and that promoters
were getting altogether too much out of
the game. Although charities benefited
considerably, the Government felt the
gains to charity were outweighed by
moral harm to the community. That
argument could also be used against
Cain’s Tatt’s.
• •
It was just like old times on the Sydney
waterfront last week with the wharfies
taking Australia’s -foreign policy into
their own hands and refusing to load arms
for the French in Indo-China just as they
refused to seven or eight years ago to
load arms (and, later, anything) for the
Dutch in Indonesia. The similarity didn t
last long. This time there was a Govern-
ment in Canberra which refused to hand
over control of foreign policy to a Red-
controlled union. Servicemen are now
loading the Radnor, with the co-opera-
tion of foreman-stevedores, tally-clerks
and other unionists who don’t take their
orders from Moscow.
When the wharfies first stopped work
on the Radnor they made no bones about
the political nature of their action, but
when it became apparent that the move
would get no support from “Labor with
a Federal election only seven weeks away
—there was an attempt to rake up indus-
trial reasons for the strike. No one was
deceived ; the first wordy resolution had
been too definite to be repudiated.
The Telegraphists’ Union is protesting
against a proposal to introduce the Tress
system of mechanical transmitter, on the
ground that it would mean the dismissal
of about 400 men. P.M.G. Anthony says
the scheme is being examined, but if it is
introduced it will not involve any dis-
missals. There’s an ironic touch about the
protest. The invention of the electric
telegraph is looked upon as one of the
landmarks in human progress, but appar-
ently its present-day operators think pro-
gress should stay where it is.
• •
At record tobacco sales at Mareeba
(Q.) fine-quality leaf brought prices
above 200 pence a pound. At this rate
tobacco and wool will soon be exchang-
ing on a pound-for-pound basis.
• •
There will be keener competition be-
tween the rival gambling joints when
Tatt.’s opens in Melbourne. The new
Tasmanian “consultation,” to be operated
by Arthur Drysdale and to be known as
“Tasmanian Lotteries,’" will offer prizes
in excess of any other lottery in Australia,
one being a £1 sweep with a first-prize
of £75,000. Presumably Government
gambles will then be bound to bump
theirs up until the business reaches the
exalted level of the football-pools in
England. Cain, who snavelled Tatt.’s
from Cosgrove, will thus have built him-
self a monument any “Labor” Govern-
ment would be proud of.
• ®
The first Mrs. J. G. Arthur had her
alimony payments reduced from £l4 a
week to £5 last Friday on the former
Mines Minister’s plea that his sole income
at present was his Parliamentary pension
of £9 a week. Strange to think that con-
cerns which recognise the ability of a
Cabinet Minister and welcome him on
their directorate when he can spare them
only that portion of his time not devoted
to Cabinet duties can’t even find him a
clerical post when he is available for full-
time work.
• •
One section of Federal “Labor” is
opposed to any borrowing from the World
Bank; another accepts the borrowing
with reservations as to the spending.
“News Review,” the official paper of the
Sydney A.L.P., agrees with the first fac-
tion and says: —
We were able to finance the war ourselves,
under Labor, but apparently, under Fadden,
we can’t finance the peace.
Of course, there was that little item known
as Lease-lend.
m •
While Treatt was berating Cahill for
not doing something about civil defence
against atomic weapons and Cahill was
blaming Menzies, the City Council of
much-bombed Coventry was deciding to
disband its Civil Defence Committee
because the H-bomb had made its work
a waste of time.
One of the things which really troubles
“Labor” organisers, as they will admit
in private, is that so many unionists obvi-
ously vote for Menzies. They seem to
regard these voters as traitors, whereas
in fact they are expressing their belief in
a doctrine which Menzies voiced the
other night, not for the first time. He
said:
The great thing that troubles me and
many other people is that so many people
think the particular occupation they have
in life determines how they ought to vote.
There are those who say that if a man is
a “worker” he ought to vote against _my
Government because my Government, it is
said, is supported by non-workers. Now
this is utter nonsense. I have been an
adult person, in years at least, for 38 years;
and in the whole of that time I have been
a worker. This is true of hundreds of
thousands of people who have never been
wage-earners but who have had to depend
upon their own efforts. It is foolish to seek
to divide Australia into employers and
employees as if their interests were dia-
metrically opposed.
Workers, unionist or otherwise, are the
people who make and unmake Govern-
ments. In 1949 and 1951 they put the
Menzies Government in. Evatt’s pro-
blem is to convince them they were
wrong.
• •
Premier Cahill on Evatt minor’s resig-
nation :
The honorable member for Hurstyille
has exercised his right. He wanted to with-
draw. He has done so, and has submitted
his resignation to the Government. That is
all there is to the matter.
It seems hardly possible that a simple
little thing like that should have taken
four hours. Clive’s not such a slow
talker as all that.
• •
Production of aluminium at Bell Bay
(Tas.) is expected to improve our Ameri-
can trade balance to the extent of
5,000,000 dollars a year. The first ingots
should be coming out of the works next
January.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
the staff of a school in a Sydney
suburb there are seven divorced or
separated women teachers. In the same
school, although the men and women are
about evenly-numbered, there is only one
divorced or separated male. In the
women’s staff-room alimony-day regu-
larly raises a point or two of interesting
conversation, especially as one woman
gets as much alimony as three of the
others. I once thought I was in love with
a woman teacher, but the record of this
school, and of several others with a com-
parable proportion of divided lives,
makes me feel I may have been lucky in
ending my romance without a wedding.
—“Puralko.”
“Narumee”: Complaints about the
small type and unintelligible abbreviations
used in the Melbourne telephone-directory
brought a statement from the P.M.G.’s
Department to the effect that the type
was “usual” and the abbreviations “easily
discernible.” If this is really the opinion
of the directory-compilers they must have
extraordinarily good eyesight and super-
intelligence denied to ordinary mortals.
The type is six-point, set solid, and here
are some addresses, picked at random
(punctuation and spacing nil):
66NellieAlt; 192WereBtnE ; sVWattßoxH ;
21 2ComoPdePkdle; rear2oAndrewNthc;
2MantelMPds.
Easy, aren’t they? Especially for foreigners
and strangers to the city.
* ❖ *
“Sister Ellell”: Soon after the bomb-
ing of Darwin, and at the peak of “the
wet,” we had a long spell without mail.
Everyone was despondent, and there was
not even an. air-raid to stimulate conversa-
tion. Most of the Sisters occupying our
stores-tent had afternoon hours off-duty,
and were on their backs reclining in very
scanty attire. The steady downpour pre-
cluded any of us hearing the approach
of the postal-sergeant, who did not
normally come into our lines, but the
arrival of the eagerly-awaited mail
prompted his kindly journey. Having a
eat’s-doze myself, I saw him out of one
eye, but I hadn’t the energy to bat said
eyelid as he tiptoed down the earth floor
and, without raising his eyes from his
bundle of mail, put the right letters on
the correct stretchers, and crept out again.
When the lasses awakened they were
thrilled at the surprise, but it took a lot
of effort to convince them the sergeant
had put them there himself! For myself,
I silently praised him for first-class recog-
nition of the target, even if
uncamouflaged!
☆ ☆ ☆
“S.”: Seen in George-street, Sydney;
the artist Mary Edwards, wearing a cloak
and skirt of the color of port-wine mag-
nolias, looking so much like the portrait
of Mary Edwards by Mary Edwards in
the N. S. Wales National Gallery that 1
had to blink twice to make sure she
wasn’t walking along in a frame.
♦ * *
“Becks”: If the restless shade of Ben
Jonson happened to be in the vicinity of
Sydney last month I hope it took the
opportunity of peeping in at the boys
of sixth-class at the State school in my
suburb. Even a compleat Elizabethan
would surely feel some pride at the know-
ledge that his verse was being taught to
the young—or at least brought to their
notice —half a world and three-and-a-half
centuries away from its birthplace. And
I’m sure Ben would have got a rumbus-
tious laugh from the drawing one earnest-
student passed in to illustrate his under-
standing of the lines:
It is not growing like a tree
In bulk, doth make man better be;
Or standing long an oak, three hundred year,
To fall a log at last, dry, bald and sere
The youngster depicted the tree in the
act of falling. Alongside it he constructed
a scale showing the rate of fall per year,
assuming it took 300 years to hit the
ground. Obviously a lad destined for an
engineering, not a literary, career.
S* *> *2>
“Roirp”: At a Sydney reception to
American comedians Olsen and Johnson
of “Hellzapoppin’,” here to pop hell at
Sydney Palladium, Olsen told the story
of the audience he and Johnson had with
the Pope. Johnson’s daughter, a Catholic,
had asked her father to ask the Pope to
bless her rosary-beads. So impressed were
the comedians with the Pope, and with
his words of wisdom, to the effect that
laughter was not the property of any one
“Bon voy — arge , pal!"
religion (he knew that neither comedian
was Catholic), that the audience was over
before Johnson remembered the beads.
The Pope was already retiring when
Johnson stammered, “Oh, just a moment,
your Holiness. Would you mind, er” —
the word “bless” escaped him —“would
you mind autographing these beads?”
“Tidak Makan”; Former members of
the St. George Regiment (Arncliffe,
N.S.W.) will be grieved to hear that the
regiment’s mascot, a massive billy-goat
named Taffy, has died. Sgt. Taffy was
“Y airs, she Was a beaut holiday all right ."
well-known to the Press and had earned
the respect of the troops because of his
scornful indifference to rank. As the
regiment is a C.M.F. unit Taffy was only
on parade a few times each year, and so
missed the regular and detailed training
which his namesake of the affiliated
British unit, the Welsh Regiment,
receives. Consequently, Taffy was always
approached with a certain amount of
caution. At one bivouac returning troops
were greeted by the sight of the C.O.
taking refuge on a steamroller from an
escaped Taffy. One of the company com-
manders was standing near by enjoying
the C.O.’s predicament until his hearty
laughter attracted Taffy’s attention and
the troops then enjoyed his predicament.
& * *
“Cine Ma”; No background of Horse
Guards or Buckingham Palace in a Vic-
torian country picture-show when the
National Anthem is played; instead her
Majesty is shown shaking hands with —
whom do you think? Premier Cahill in
Sydney,
“F.W.G.M.”; How’s
this for a coincidence?
In the “Otago Daily
Times,” Dunedin
(N.Z.), March 16,
appeared two death-
notices in alphabetic
order: “Bruce, on
March 15 ... . dearly
beloved wife of Robert
Bruce....” Immedi-
ately below it:
“Comyn, on March 15,
at Timaru, Clarenda
ComynThe co-
incidence lies in the
surnames —the fact that
they were together.
Those who knpw their
Scottish history will re-
member the story of
how, in 1305, Robert
Bruce and John (“The
Red”) Comyn, both of
them ex-guardians of
Scotland, met secretly
in Greyfriars Church at
Dumfries. There was
a quarrel between these
two candidates for the
Scottish throne, and
Bruce stabbed Comyn ;
his followers dispatched
the wounded man. This
murder did Bruce im-
measurable harm, for
the kindred and friends
of the great families of
Comyn and of Balliol
(to whom Comyn was related) were
violently hostile to him, and the clergy,
who had hitherto supported the cause of
independence, were alienated by a crime
which combined murder with sacrilege.
The murder of Comyn accomplished
what all other efforts had failed to
achieve; the creation of a party in Scot-
land which could be trusted unswervingly
to maintain English interests.
“Sister Ellell”: I think the palm for
the most humane action during the Royal
tour should surely go to the thoughtful
m.o. at a general hospital. As many
patients as possible were wheeled to the
footpath, but in one ward remained a
lonely lady complete with blood-trans-
fusion in action. Recognising that a
sight of the Queen would do more
psychologically for her than the drip
physically, the m.o. removed it after the
first pint, and out with the other patients
she went. On return to the ward he
started the drip going again.
❖ *
“Keima”; Long before the two Win-
ston Churchills (B. 24/3/’54) there were
two Viennese Franz Schuberts: one an
. eminently-respectable merchant, greatly
irked to receive by mistake the mail
(mostly bills, no doubt) of the other, a
worthless creature, a lowly haunter of
cafes, a writer of songs —the sole reason
why today we know of the merchant at
all.
# ❖ ❖
“Peers”: Port Huon, in the heart of
Tasmania’s apple-country, now has a
wharf which looks as if it’ll be waiting
some time for ships that never come in.
Premier Cosgrove opened the new struc-
ture with the usual blurb about the boon
it would be to apple-growers. But it’s the
old familiar story—wharfies won’t come
forward unless there’s regular shipping,
and ship-owners refuse to send ships un-
less there’s some guarantee of labor.
Meanwhile the apples go to Hobart for
shipping.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pip Tok”: The clerk mentioned by
“Lord Luvus” (B. 24//3/’54) was not
the first man whose decoration entitled
him to precedence over his official chief.
In 1918 awards of the Rumanian Order
of Valor (equivalent to the French Croix
de Guerre) were made to Australian Light-
horsemen in Palestine, but it was not
understood that, in the three grades of
that order, the third is the highest. Con-
sequently, senior officers grabbed the
first-class, others not so senior the second
—while the few thirds awarded went
to junior commissioned ranks and war-
rant-officers. A vSister of the Australian
Army Nursing Service was the recipient
of many ribald congratulations when she
was awarded the highest grade of the
order. In Rumanian, as in Latin, the one
word does duty for both valor and
“virtue,” and general routine orders in-
formed all and sundry that the good
Sister had been awarded “the Rumanian
Order of Virtue, Third Class.”
TO A NEW TUNE
ŵ
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM BLAKE.


TTAVING enjoyed the company of The
Bully for over 40 years I find one
discordant note, and that is when it
refers to the “Old Dart” My parents were
North-of-Ireland Scots, and the word
“art” was commonly used to signify a
place or direction, as in “What art does
he hail from?” (bad grammar, but used
colloquially). Robbie Burns, in his poems,
refers to “All the airts to wind my
blaw.” About six years ago I paid a
visit to the Old Dart, and while there had
The Bully forwarded to me each week.
I referred your use of the word “Dart” to
several people with whom I became
friendly, and not one had ever heard it
used in that way. I have asked new
arrivals in this country, and they invari-
ably use “Old Art,” even when spelling
the words. I must apologise for taking
“Oh, blow your old boss. He used to wet his nappy himself once."
up so much time, but whenever I read
“Old Dan” it grates on my nerves.—
“Galen’s Disciple.”
* * *
“No Sirrah”: Didn’t sight the
Gothic this trip, but would have liked to.
Last time but one I saw the lady she
seemed just a hulk, beached beside the
Suez Canal after a bombing-raid,
Patched-up and taken to the U.S., she
was refitted in austerity style. Next time
I saw her she was beside the quay at
Naples, and she was the loveliest craft I
had ever seen —she took me to England
for leave after four and a quarter years
without any. Some of her bulkheads were
still buckled from the heat of the fire, so
that we had to walk sideways down some
of the passages. Yes, I’d like to look
over her now; I’ll bet she’s a different
ship!
* * «
“Perspex”: Though never officially
solved, since no wreckage was found,
there is a logical explanation for the
disappearance of the plane Southern
Cloud in 1931 (B. 24/3/’54). On the day
it vanished there was a low cloud-ceiling
over the southern portion of the Sydney-
Melboprne route. It is now known that
under similar weather conditions, with a
south-west ground wind, there may be a
50-knot north-west wind at the altitude
at which commercial planes fly. Unable
to realise this abnormal drift because the
ground was hidden by the clouds, the
pilot must have passed about 150 miles
to the east of Melbourne and ended in
the Tasman Sea. Even more puzzling
at the time were the crashes of three
planes a few years later. In each case
there were no survivors. Every crash
occurred as the plane was coming in to
land. Similar aircraft were put through
every conceivable stunt in the air, but no
structural faults developed. Eventually
it was found that when the engines of this
model of plane were throttled back pre-
paratory to Sanding sufficient carbon
monoxide from the exhausts was sucked
into the pilot’s compartment to cause
him to black-out.
* ☆ *
“Harrovian”: Perhaps it’s as well that
the deceitful charmer who exploits “Will-
par’s” sponge-rubber goods (B. 3/3/ 54)
does not five in the U.S.A. There an
Act passed in 1770 and never repealed
lays down:
All women of whatever age, rank, pro-
fession or degree, whether virgins, maids
or widows that shall from and after such
Act is passed seduce, or betray into matri-
mony any of his Majesty’s male subjects by
scents, paints, cosmetics, washes, artificial
teeth, false hair, Spanish wool, iron stays,
hoops, high-heeled shoes, etc., shall incur
the penalty of the law now in force against
witchcraft and like misdemeanors and that
the marriage upon conviction shall be null
and void.
“Spanish wool” was the soft wool used
in fabrication of the 18th-Century
“falsies,” so it would seem that sponge-
rubber, the modern equivalent, could be
a ground for divorce in the U.S.
“B. A, Ker”: In the building-trade the
word “bastard” (skipping any normal
application to best mate or worst enemy)
can also have the Dutch meaning—cross-
bred (B. 24/3/’54). Thus, when a car-
penter refers to a bastard-hip he is not
being profane, but merely describing a
hip-rafter that doesn t conform to the
true hip’s forty-five-degree horizontal
plane. The engineering trade also has its
own particular “bastard”—an extremely
coarse file. One of my earliest jobs was
in a warehouse, my duties to carry mes-
sages between storerooms and office. 1
never did succeed m training my sell to
tell the damsel in the office, without reel-
ing my ears catch fire and burn off, .hat
the required bastard-files were ready for
delivery. But she could ask about them
with a face as innocently-expressionless
as a mama-doll.
❖
“Gui”: Australians gained a great
reputation with the Yanks as scroungers.
Jeeps were particularly attractive, to be
souvenired at every opportunity. To hide
one, it was given the same number, dents
and scratches as one legitimately held.
Because of frequent checks at road-blocks
only one of the twins could be on the road
“Th' time has come for you to choose, Sylvia-r-either this man or myself."
at a time; I know a unit that made the
fatal mistake of parking two side-by-side
at a picture-show. But perhaps the best
effort of all in the scrounging line was
that of an A.I.F. unit leaving Moresby
short of tents. They removed four from
above sleeping colored troops without
waking them.
♦j* ❖ ®
“Mac Hoots”: I am in two minds
about the practice of the Kuringai
municipal council, Sydney, of delivering
to the ratepayer trees for planting on his
footpath, neatly potted in disused dunny-
cans. It does not seem quite in keeping
with the very high tone of the district;
on the other hand it is a frugal device,
and it is pleasing to think that these poor
old tins, worn out with long and faithful
service, should come to so noble an end.
# * *
Prices of some of Australia’s
earlier painters still hold. At the auction
of the collection of Dr. Douglas Thomas,
of Olinda (Vic.), Streeton’s “Summer
Landscape, Sylvan Dam,” fetched 810gns.
and a Kosciusko landscape 600gns. A
Harold Herbert watercolor brought
200gns., highest price ever paid for a
Herbert. Mclnnes, who won the Archi-
bald Prize four years running and in other
years as well, would have been surprised
to see one of his landscapes go for 250gns,
—more than the average price he got for
a portrait.
* ❖
“Bo”: One truck of the Sydney-bound
goods-train which chugged along on the
branch line at our outer-suburban station
bore this legend, scrawled in white
chalk:
8 woolpacks
2 ton steel posts
Merv (wake at 3 p.m.)
The fact that the last item had been
neither “okayed” nor struck-through
would lead to some wonder whether
Merv’s mates had been recreant to their
trust. He may still have been snoring
among the freight, assured of a comfort-
able journey—unless he had selected the
steel posts to doss among. You never
know —railwaymen are peculiar fellows.
+> * *l*
“Eve”: Not only do they have bra.-
bars, but also geiger-counters, though so
far girls have more use for bras than
geigers.
* ❖ *>
“Baksac”: From a seat in Belmore
Park I was surprised to see a pumpkin
bowling across Eddy-avenue in a graceful
arc and parking neatly against the kerb.
A double-decker bus completed its about-
turn, and all became clear: a passenger
had parked his laden sugarbag under the
stairs and the bus’s turn had unloaded
the pumpkin. A passer tucked the pump-
kin under his arm and, obviously de-
lighted with his find, went on to the bus-
stop and boarded the waiting bus. Then
the bus, like the meaning of a Chinese
poem, went on.
* * ❖
“Flickers”: The wide-screen cinema is
not so new. In 1926 a Frenchman, Abel
Gance, produced a film, “Napoleon,
which needed three screens. It was im-
pressive in shots of an army reviewed,
but few cinemas had space for it. Later
Gance made a talkie- “ Napoleon” using
amplifiers scattered round the cinema to
provide stereophonic sound. But the
money wasn’t there to back-up Gance s
ideas.
$ *
“Zorok”: The world’s No. 1 female
political assassinator (B. 17/3/’54) was,
of course, Charlotte Corday. Carlyle’s
cruel-lovely, angelic-daemonic citizeness of
the French Revolution was a Girondin
enthusiast. After the Girondins had been
thrown out by the rival Jacobins, Char-
lotte, “to save France,” plunged the knife
into the erstwhile sewer-skulker Jean
Marat, then suffering so much from a
horrible disease caught in the sewers that
his death would not have been long
delayed, anyway. Moreover, by that time
Marat’s influence had practically disap-
peared. So the murder achieved nothing
except that it frightened the Jacobins
into even greater savagery (the Reign
of Terror”). Though her shooting-act in
the U.S. Congress will not provoke such
reprisals, Lolita Lebron, the Puerto Rican
fanatic, assuredly served her cause
equally badly.
* * *
“Ceg”: Those “misprints” from the
Mint (B. 31/3/’54) reminded me that
during the last war there was a shortage
of small change. Treys, in particular.
Dies were made in Melbourne and sent to
the Mint in Denver, Colorado (U.S.A.),
and there the extra coins were made.
The finished product used to reach us
in £5O bags, which is quite a lot of treys,
especially if one has to count them into
£1 packets for the bank’s customers.
Near enough was good enough for those
bags, and it was nothing to find one a
couple of bob over, but as many of the
coins were just blank silver disks which
had missed being stamped the final out-
come was about square. Of course it
was war-time, so who cared?
+> ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: “Eve’s” tale of the King’s
Cross diner who quibbled at paying a
shilling for an egg with steak (B.
31/3/’54) recalls a spot of eavesdropping
on my part in a Bathurst-street (Sydney)
hash-house. A cove was objecting to the
ninepenny charge for a small pot of tea:
“After all, the advertisements claim you
get about 240 cups to the pound,” he
protested. “Yes, but it’s got to be brewed
and served,” the waitress, who had been
lazily slapdash in removing the debris of
earlier meals from the aggrieved one’s
table, reminded him. This explanation
didn’t satisfy the disgruntled bloke, but
the slavey promptly cut short further
discussion by sloshing food-scraps to the
floor with a venomous-looking rag and
remarking: “Well, go and complain to
the boss—l’m neither a bloody statistician
nor sob-sister.” “No, and you’re no
bloody waitress, either!” the diner (some-
what recklessly, I thought) shot back.
VIEWPOINT
ẁ
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The pick
offhe bunch
since
tB*7
w
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
Claude Cornwell, one of Sydney’s best-
known insurance men, is retiring from
the managership of the Sydney branch of
the Union Insurance Society of Canton.
He is now on a trip overseas, and was
last heard from —very cheerfully—in
Hong Kong. He will be succeeded in
Sydney by W. J. C. Pennell, who has
been with the Union of Canton since
1915.
• •
It’s a doubtful honor to argue over,
but London papers are quoting an Aus-
trian scientist, Professor Hans Thirring,
as claiming to be “the man who thought-
up the horror-bomb.” He claims that he
published a paper in 1946 in which he
visualised the atom-bomb as being used
as a detonator for a much larger bomb.
He’ll have to do better than that if he
wants to establish his claim. Bertrand
Russell made the same prophecy in the
House of Lords in November, 1945.
• •
A gift for the Queen:
There’!! be no need for the Queen and the
Duke to become confused over' the places they
have visited, as humorously suggested in last
week’s Woman’s Letter, as long as the Court
Archives’ keeper doesn’t mislay the photographic
record which is their gift from the Government
and people of New South Wales. And the
book, which is the best piece of work ever
produced by Oswald Ziegler, who has spent a
lifetime turning out commemorative volumes of
high quality, is not the sort of thing that is
likely to be mislaid.
Encased in a casket of clear crystal, with
gold corner-pieces embossed with Tudor roses
and a cover of burnished gold engraved with
the Royal cipher, the Irook itself is a delight
to handle. It is bound in powder-blue morocco-
leather, with a gold-tooled design, in the
centre of which is a medallion of solid gold,
bearing the coat-of-arms of New South Wales,
with the colors brought up with inlaid enamels.
The end-pages are of blue silk, patterned in a
wattle-design and printed in gold with a shot-
silk effect; art work on these pages, and
throughout the whole book, is by Gert Sellheim.
The presentation page, of parchment, signed
by Premier Cahill on behalf of the State, is
followed by full-page portraits in color of the
Queen and the Duke, reproduced from the
original paintings by Sir Oswald Birley, R.A.
The body of the book begins with a superb
color-photograph taken from the air, showing
the scene on Sydney Harbor as the Royal barge
moved from the Gothic to Farm Cove through
a lane of yachts and small craft on the day
of the arrival. Then follow 96 pages depicting
all phases of the tour of New South Wales.
There is a running commentary throughout,
written by Ziegler; also scrolls and decorative
work by Sellheim. W. C. Penfold and Co.
did the printing.
Considering the high quality of the work-
manship the most remarkable thing about the
DESIGNED ROYAL GIFTS
book is that it was completed in so short a
time. The Queen’s last call in N. S. Wales was
made at Broken Hill on the afternoon of
March 18. The gift was presented by Cabinet
Minister McGrath at Government House, Perth,
shortly before her Majesty left for London on
April 1. Small wonder that the Queen said,
as she turned the pages and noticed the inclusion
of the Broken Hill section, “But this is tremen-
dous.” For Ziegler, depicted here by Prior, it
was certainly a tremendous moment.
First Maori soldier to reach the rank of
brigadier, H. H. Parata, D. 5.0., E.D., son
of an Anglican parson, is in civil life an
accountant in Dunedin. Educated at Te
Aute College, he commanded the 2nd
Maori Battalion in Hitler’s war and won
his D.S.O. in Italy.
• •
Calling it a day after 45 years in the
Westralian public service, Old Digger and
chief-engineer of Perth Metropolitan
Water Supply, R. J. Cavanagh. Starting
as an engineering-cadet in 1909, he drew
his first pay from the construction-branch
of W.A. Railways ; later from an A.I.F.
paybook. Joining the Water Supply
Department, he supervised the construc-
tion of several country reservoirs before
advancement to the top rung. More
recent jobs have been the Mt, Yokine
reservoir, the Kangaroo Valley diversion
scheme, sewerage extensions in Perth’s
outer suburbs, and the commencement
of the Kwinana water-supply project.
• •
Notched 93 in New Zealand, Sir Robert
Heaton Rhodes. Son of a pioneering
family of Canterbury, he learnt his pot-
hooks there, crossed to Brasenose College,
Oxford, for final trimming, and was
admitted to the Inner Temple in 1887.
Followed service in Kruger’s war and on
Gallipoli as a Red Cross commissioner.
He entered the N.Z. Parliament at the
turn of the century, and in his quarter-
century therein was Minister of Health
and of Defence, and Postmaster-General.
An interest in philately stemmed from
the last-named post; his collection of
Enzed stamps is possibly the finest in the
world. As well, Sir Robert breeds sheep
—and daffodils: the display at the family
seat at Otahuna is an annual event for
visitors.
• •
More than 40 Boer War veterans
attended the latest annual reunion at
Launceston (Tas.). Charles Packett, of
the Bushmen’s Brigade, was the oldest.
At 86, he still prospects for gold. T. P.
Drake, secretary, in his late seventies, was
the youngest. About 90 of the veterans
still live in the Speck.
• •
Percy Grainger has a monument to
himself at Melbourne University: it is
just like Grainger to introduce a frivolous
note into a serious business, and his
museum is utterly unlike the conven-
tional. , It contains almost everything
associated with him since his childhood
in Brighton (Vic.) —his first photo of him-
self as a baby, his first toy, his first piano,
and other things associated with his
mother, who led him to music and gave
up everything to the fostering of his
talent. The architecturally-unusual build-
ing also contains the MS. of his first
attempt to produce a new sort of music
—pages and pages of it looking like a
meteorological graph of a typhoon. The
quaintest object is the last suit of clothes
worn by the composer he admired above
all others —Grieg. He has also preserved
the rational clothing he designed for his
wife and himself out of bath-towels.
When he conducted his own concerto at
the Melbourne Town Hall he had
dozens of strange new instruments distri-
buted among the orchestrians ; he played
his own part in it, not on the keyboard
of the piano, but on the piano’s wires,
hopping up and striking them with little
hammers.
• •
“X.”: One of those Australians who
helped Oxford to victory in this year’s
Boat Race (B. 7/4/’54) might be more
accurately listed as a New Australian.
Augustine Gobbo, he has had a meteoric
career since he arrived here. The son of
Italian immigrants, he helped his parents
in a cafe at the Victoria Markets, Mel-
bourne. At Xavier College he was a
brilliant scholar, rowed in the 1948 crew
which won the Head of the River, trans-
ferred to Melbourne University to study
law, and was 1951 Rhodes Scholar. He
seems to have maintained his form at
Oxford.
• •
“Ek Dum” views the new R.A.S.
director:
Lieutenant-General Sir Frank Berryman,
K.C.V.0., C. 8., C.8.E., D. 5.0., p.s.c., p.a.c.,
looks somewhat like one of the gold nuggets
which used to come out of his native Ballarat
district before it specialised in breeding soldiers —
singularly, at the crucial initial stage of the
Japanese War the Chief-of-Staff (Northcott) and
the Deputy-C.-0.-S. (Berryman) hailed from the
same plot of earth. General Northcott’s birth-
place being Creswick, on the fringes of the
Ballarat field.
From a solid career at Duntroon Berryman
went straight to war in 1915 as adjutant, 4th
Battery, A.F.A.; before the war ended he had
commanded the 18th and 14th Batteries, had
been wounded, mentioned in dispatches and
earned a D.S.O. A period at Woolwich rounded-
off his experience in artillery, which has colored
all his command work, and Camberley pfepared
him for command.
At 37, a period at the High Commissioner’s
office in London during the depression taught
him economy and diplomacy, and World War
II found him, at 45, the natural choice as
G. 5.0.1, Sixth Division. He planned the
Bardia and subsequent operations, and soon
proved himself a tough realist with an unerring
eye for terrain and situations and completely
ignorant of the meaning of the word defeat.
As C.R.A., Artillery, and commander of the
B'erryforce in Syria, he put his name on the
military map, became 8.G.5., First Corps, in
the Middle East and during its strange pere-
grinations to Australia, via Java, and in April,
1942, was promoted Major-General and Deputy-
Chief of the General Staff.
He planned the classic New Guinea operations
which started the backward motions of the
Japanese Army from the Huon Peninsula afid
commanded successively the Second and First
Australian Corps, being promoted Lieutenant-
General in January, 1944. Thereafter he
advanced with the war to command of Advanced
Land Headquarters at Morotai and was Aus-
tralia’s liaison-officer with General MacArthur
throughout the island-hopping period from
Hollandia to Manila. He was helping to plan
the invasion of Japan when Hiroshima went up
in smoke, was in the U.S.S. Missouri at the
Surrender, and returned to take over Eastern
Command in March, 1946.
Since then his energy and enthusiasm for
amenities have transformed military areas round
Sydney from wastes of asphalt into civilised
gardens equipped with sporting facilities, and
his activities in tree-planting have left their
mark on suburban districts adjacent to military
areas. He organised the Commonwealth Jubilee
Celebrations and has been in charge of arrange-
ments for the Royal visit ever since it was first
mooted. The smoothness with which the
Queen’s tour ran was his final triumph, and,
honored with a knighthood which he, like other
fighting commanders, should have had at the
war’s end—no commanders were ever more
shabbily treated—he retires from the Army at
the conventional 60—-about eight years earlier
than Foch —and takes over as director of Sydney
Royal Agricultural Society.
• •
In Adelaide the name Bonython means
newspapers and in particular “The Adver-
tiser,” but Alfred Mcßain Bonython,
dead at 88, wasn’t in that line, although
he was a younger brother of Sir Lang-
don. An architect, he worked as a young
man as a draughtsman on the plans for
the R.C. cathedral at New Norfolk
(Tas.); later he had a hand in the plan-
ning of St. Paul’s Anglican cathedral,
Melbourne, and he designed Methodist
churches at Fremantle, Albany and York
in Westralia. His memorial, however, is
the Elder Conservatorium at Adelaide
University, which he designed over half a
century ago, and which is one of the
most beautifully proportioned buildings
in Adelaide.
• •
“Stromlo”: Eric Harrison’s knighthood
was an expected but completely justified
outcome of the Royal-tour organisation.
It was welcomed even by the political
opponents whom he flays with vigor (but
often with a betraying twinkle in his eye)
in the House of Representatives. For
some time it has been a glib Canberra
assumption that acceptance of a title is
tantamount to relinquishing any aspira-
tions for the Prime Ministership, the
assumption being that democratic Aus-
tralians would automatically reject any-
one with a handle to his name. This may
or may not be so, but in Harrison’s case
it has been known for a long time that,
although deputy-leader of the Libs, he
has no eagerness to step into the top
post should Menzies retire. Harrison,
whose loyalty to his friends is outstand-
ing, is apt to take an over-modest view
of his own talents, but he has shown a
capacity for leadership when the occasion
called for it. He enjoys some creature
comforts and the home-life which politics
interrupts; he is a teetotaller, but a good
“mixer,” and if the Prime Ministership
did come his way he might surprise even
himself.
• •
Seeking to topple Dr. Evatt from his
pinnacle in Barton in a campaign in
which the Opposition-leader seems likely
to concentrate on a programme designed
to appeal to youth, Bill Arthur holds at
least one advantage over his formidable
opponent—he has youth on his side in
more ways than one. He has crammed
DESIGNS ON BARTON
quite a lot of experience into his 35 years,
including five years as an artilleryman
with the 2nd A.I.F. (New Guinea, Moro-
tai and Borneo), and a round-the-world
hitch-hike which took him through Africa
from Cape Town to Kenya and into most
of the countries of Europe, with several
months in Britain, the United States and
Canada. Associated with Y.M.C.A. acti-
vities as gymnasium- and lifesaving-
instructor for 20 years, he represented
Australia at the Lingiad World Gymnastic
Festival in Stockholm in 1948, and is
still an active worker for Y.M. A debater,
public-speaker and radio-script writer
and compere as out-of-hours recreation
from shipping-company work, Bill
Arthur has had one try at politics already.
His opponent on that occasion was also
an Evatt—Clive.
• •
An unusual side of the Colombo Plan
is exemplified by the departure last week
of two Australian plastic-surgeons who
will demonstrate their technique for the
benefit of surgeons in Singapore and
Malaya. Last year B. K. Rank, honorary
plastic-surgeon at the Royal Melbourne
Hospital, did some remarkable plastic
work on the face of a young Malayan
boy; the interest aroused in Malaya by
the case led to the present visit. Dr. Rank
will demonstrate in Singapore and Kuala
Lumpur, assisted by Dr. R. Stanistreet,
also of Royal Melbourne.
• •
Into the Silence :
Accidentally killed at Albury (N.S.W.), Doug
Strang, prominent Australian Rules footballer.
Strang played with Richmond from 1931-5,
coached Kyneton to premiership in 1936, then
returned to Albury and as captain-coach led
the local team to the premiership in 1939 and
1940. In his second game with Richmond in
1931 he kicked 14 goals, a record for a Mel-
bourne League game which stood for several
years. Forty-one at the finish.
At 86, in Melbourne, William Hugh Merry,
the civil engineer who was responsible for
Adelaide’s revolution, in transport when its
tramways were converted from horse-drawn to
electric. The son of one of Gippsland’s early
pioneers, he also built South Africa’s first grain-
elevators, in 1920.
In Perth, at 56, Frederick Beach Hicks, Kal-
goorlie businessman, closely identified with the
public life of the goldfields for many years.
Formerly he was connected with 6KG (Kal-
goorlie) radio-station, and, in War 11, was
head-warden of the goldfield A.R.P. He had
represented Westralia at lacrosse.
In Adelaide, at 64, Clifford Cornish, of John
Darling and Son, who held a special place in
Australian medical history as the first diabetic
in this country to be saved by insulin.


DOWN FOR THE SHOW


ABORIGINALITIES
ẁ
“Happen to notice a circus-lion, boys?”
race like mad to keep the woollies separ-
ated. Then, when he’s nearly safe past
he trips an’ drops the mong, an’ it charges
round Kennedy’s mob an’ shunts ’em
over. Well, Andy looks at the pup an’
at the boxed sheep. There’s a loud bang,
and we ain’t seen Andy since!” —“B.”
“J.C.C.”: The two butcher-birds sitting
a couple of feet apart on my fence began
singing at the same moment, sang in com-
plete unison for some time, then stopped
together on the same note. They flew off
together in the same direction. Now, is
it possible that the avian world, like the
human one, produces examples of identi-
cal twins which are impelled to act
identically?
“Bogaduck”; On Balla-
kalina station, in the
north-west of S.A.’s salt,
bush country, a 3,000,000-
gallon earth-dam was sunk
two years ago. Heavy
rains filled it, and Collin
Greenfield, the owner, was
confident it would mean'
the end of water-shortage
just there. A few months
later there was barely a
puddle, the floor of the
dam having dropped
several feet. Greenfield
thought he’d selected a site
directly above a subter-
ranean cave. Then came
another big rain, the dam filled, and this
time the water stayed put. This must
surely be the only case on record where
a freak of nature increased the holding-
capacity of a dam by about 33 p.c. at
no cost to the owner.
* * * *
“Front Counter”: On his way home
from hunting wild-game in India, a
bronzed New Zealander called on The
Bulletin to buy the McGregor drawing
(B. 24/3/’54) depicting a hunter staring
a tiger in the eye whilst his companion
reloads. A casual remark that the artist
unwittingly portrayed a frequent occur-
rence—that of meeting tigers when one’s
gun is empty—prompted the question;
“What ( happens then?” The answer:
“Nothing. You stand fast, stare the tiger
in the eye, and it runs away—unless, of
course, it’s a man-eater.” Enlarging, he
explained that most tigers are frightened
of man, but, unfortunately, they are fond
of porcupine. Swiping at this spiked
jungle delicacy, a tiger will collect a fore-
armful of quills. These fester badly, and
the ailing tiger, too sore to hunt and
smite other game, and crazed by hunger,
turns on cumbersome man. Then, fear
having been overcome, man-eating be-
comes a habit.
• • * ♦
“Fumeaux”: With Tasmania’s mut-
ton-bird season open again, it’s expected
about half-a-million birds will be col-
lected from the Bass Strait islands. The
old method of salting and packing them
in brine in barrels has been jettisoned.
Public taste has changed, and the fresh
birds will be shock-frozen and flown to
Tasmania’s mainland and to Victoria,
where they are a popular item of the
menu.
* * * *
“Old-timer (with fins)”: It’s hard to
beat these coves from the Mallee.
Lameroo Lake oozed out to the aft of
E-deck on the big liner with a busted
thumb. It was 6 a.m. and no surgeon
about, so a sailor showed him the crew’s
sick-bay and said, “Try that.” Lameroo
did, and encountered a sleepy and some-
what sulky doctor, who roared, “Don't
you know passengers aren't allowed in
"First it Was Mary , now it's John. You'll have to do something
about it. Dad."
this part of the ship?” Lameroo eyed
him, withdrew, got into an old pair of
pants and a singlet, tousled his hair, then
returned barefooted to the sulky one.
‘‘Sorry, sir,” he mumbled, in the best he
could do at a Yorkshire accent, “ ’it me
bloomin’ thoomb oop in fo’c’sle.” Two
minutes later, bandaged, he was playing
quoits on the sports-deck,
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: Experiments by the
C.5.1.R.0. to determine why Belgian flax
is the world’s best failed to prove that
climate, soil or cultivation was respon-
sible. Then an alert observer noted
that flax grown in Belgium was invariably
attacked by a small beetle during growing.
He grew an experimental crop, and kept
it free of the parasite. Result: inferior
flax. He grew another with the beetle
unrestrained. The flax produced was of
first-class quality. Now there is talk of
importing the beetle and releasing it in
flax-growing areas. Fine, for the grower.
But creatures with blameless records in
their homelands have a habit of turning
into pests when imported into Australia.
* * * «
“Pigskin Bagman”: Could it be that
the flavor of trout is governed by what it
eats, that diet varying from stream to
stream? It is certainly so with the rifle-
fish of the Far North, which, normally
as palatable as barramundi, is quite
inedible, even by Black Brother, when
the little black “stink bugs” of the flood-
season are plentiful.
* * ♦ «
“Solitude”: Because Seventyfiver once
drove a couple of Herefords near the
hut his pup had become convinced that
every beast within mustering-distance
must be put on the doorstep. The old
bloke reasoned, argued, coaxed and
threatened, but each time a baldie hove in
sight trouble started. I came round the
corner as, in the distance, the pup was
extended in the wake of a few head, while
well behind, and blowing badly, came
Seventyfiver, a waddy in his fist and a
rumbling in his throat. As the pup arrived
and began crowding the beasts on to the
step I bunged him inside and shut the
door. Presently, up from the creek
came a muddied figure. “S-seen anything
o’ that” —gulp—“black skinful o’ sin?”
he panted, brandishing his waddy. I
shrugged and jerked a thumb towards the
60ft. drop. “Maybe that horny with the
calf might’ve tossed him off the rocks,” I
ventured. “Eh? Wh-a-a-t!” He looked
everywhere about. “Gripes! Cripes!
Well, don’t stand there like a goat, Sol,”
he bawled suddenly. “Do somethin’,
can’t y’? A damn’ fine pup like that!”
As he raced off, I pushed the door and
the pup shot out. It charged at the old
bloke, then stopped to wrestle with some-
thing it carried, just as Seventyfiver
looked round and recognised the be-
draggled remains of our only meat. I
heaved a sigh. It was on again!
♦ * * *
“Rooster”; Man, ascending from sub-
marine depths, has to be “staged” up to
beat the deadly “bends” ; the whale, an
air-breather like man, may come straight
up from 400 to 500 fathoms, its immun-
ity from such pressure-trouble being
ensured by its ability to conserve a large
portion of its oxygenated blood (accrued
while breathing normally at the surface)
ẃ
MILLICENT.
TWO KOOKABURRAS
At Somerset one time there used to be
Two kookaburras, and an orange-tree
Eighty years old —
So I was told.
And when the sun was low
I used to sit beneath the tree and drink
After the heat and bustle of the day
In summer-time; and think
About the problems that beset my way.
And as I sat—just why I do not know —•
One on each high post of the garden gate,
Those kookaburras laughed—perhaps in glee,
Perhaps at me;
Or, haply, in a diurnal display
Of bootless, uninspired inanity. . .
But I must state
I did not think them ri^de,
Nor did their cachinnations quite exclude
The claims of business. Underneath the tree
Fat, green grasshoppers whirred invitingly,
Tempting a pause, a dive, a soar,
A gulping gobble, and once more
Loud laughter, on a throatier note, held sway.
But when the sun had set away they’d fly
To chuckle into silence in the trees
Around the dam, and I
Would seek repose in turn, contentedly.
Outside my window, when the moon was bright,
Young Willie Wagtail twittered through the
night
Immodestly, blatant self-flattery,
While peacefulness was born of the night breeze.
Calling these things to mind
I often, wistful, wish that I could be
At Somerset again, again to find
Two kookaburras, and an orange-tree
A century old.
N - s -W.
HUI TE RANGIORA.


m
tiulliU-iiililfUiuiiii
oO IGI
ight up one of these superb English cigarettes of
pre-war excellence. Savour the rich, mellow smoothness of that
pure Virginia tobacco—and you will have formed a lasting
preference for Rothmans De Luxe Virginia! You will know whv. in
the most distinguished homes and clubs,
Rothmans De Luxe have for so
long been accepted as England’s
luxury cigarette.
DE LUXE
VIRGINIA
ENGLAND’S
LUXURY CIGARETTE
In aluminium containers
3/7 for 20
»el„
7M?.
m
MADE IN ENGLAND BY THE HOUSE OF ROTHMAN
THE GOOD
COMPANIONS
m
I*
mrmh
\~~r
SALLOWS
rr -j
CQR
mm
■■ . .
; - : :
■•.• V.-V
ENERGOL IS RECOMMENDED BY ROLLS-ROYCE
AN
INDEPENDENT
. SERVICE STATION A
mM
CO-R MOTOR
at
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
C174/6956
T>Y the look of the sun I’d overslept and
missed breakfast. Below in the rural
hotel yard was a figure in an overcoat and
no hurry. ’’Tell us the time?” I called
down to him. He wanted to be obliging.
"No, mister,” he said. “I can’t. I’m a
stranger round here.” —“H.V.N.”
* * * *
“Bulletina”: It seems that by the
middle of the 19th century N. S. Wales
red cedar was worth imitating. This
recipe is from an old Enquire Within
Upon Everything, date lost, but, from
internal evidence, about 1850:
IMITATION OF BOTANY-BAY-WOOD
Boil half a pound of French Berries in
two quarts of water till of a deep-yellow,
and while boiling-hot give two or three coats
to the work. If a deeper color is desired
give a coat of Logwood decoction over the
yellow. When nearly dry form the grain
with No. VIII black stain; and when dry
dust and varnish.
(The cedar cut from those old giant
trees was black-veined).
♦ * * *
“Benbow”: Punishment can be neces-
sary though there may be no moral wrong
in what’s done. In the Navy I found
essential spare-parts being used, with
frequent losses, for fishing-line sinkers ;
so often that it was necessary to provide
a box of small pieces of chain cut up for
that purpose, and to put on the quarter-
deck any amateur fisherman found using
anything else. The injured innocence of
a seaman awarded two hours extra work
in the dog-watches for fishing with a
sinker he claimed he had bought ashore
was something to see*
♦ * * *
“Billy T.”: The brown w r ater of the
young river slid over the smooth stone
bed and then romped over the rapids
that gradually narrowed to the throat of
the gorge. We boiled the billy beside the
ford, grilled a chop, and said little;
natural music of this quality was too rare
to intrude upon, and its serenity settled on
the senses until one became part of the
setting—river and hills, robins and sun-
light, water-dragons and dragon-flies
blended in one great harmony, till even
the pup gave up trying to identify differ-
ent scents and curled up on a rock. Then
down the track bounded a car ;
three young chaps dived into the
pool upstream, while the fourth,
in two-tone shoes and three-tone
shirt, dragged out a portable radio,
turned a knob, and immediately
some howling hag filled the gully
with stricken wails for her “dream
baby.” My God! I suppose the
drone of drought-breaking rain or
the prattle of creeks are to him
some sort of foreign interference
with Hit Parades. Anyone know
a nice stretch of river in a region
where the reception is thoroughly
bad?
“J. 8.”: It was not Baudin (as claimed
by an Aboliar) who was looking for La
Perouse in 1791. It was D’Entrecasteaux.
Baudin didn’t come on to the scene till
1800, when he headed a French scientific
expedition, “picking up shells and catch-
ing butterflies,” and he was never up the
Swan River.' In 1801, Baudin (geo-
grapher) and Hamelin (naturalist) agreed
if separated by storms to rendezvous at
Rottnest Island. Hamelin kept the
appointment, but Baudin sailed -straight
on to Timor. While waiting, Hamelin
sent a boat up the Swan, and the islands
over which the Causeway now runs were
called the Heirisson Islands after the
leader of the party. Baudin did come
back along the W.A. coast in 1803, but
only passing by.
* * ♦ *
“Sister Ellell”: No doubt about it,
kids in the outback have an entirely
different yardstick by which they adjust
their scale of values compared with their
city counterparts. One four-year-old, on
receipt of his birthday-card from the
Radio Sunday-school teacher, gazed
puzzled at the picture of the Good
Shepherd and sheep amid “twice as
natural” green grass. To his mother he
said, “What’s that. Mum?” and she
explained the picture. “H’m,” he said.
“Those sheep are in a jolly good paddock,
aren’t they?”
* * * ♦
“C. Coral”; The Jap fishermen who
lately lost their ship off Rossel Island,
south-east of New Guinea, were luckier
than the 300-odd Chinese passengers who
were being conveyed from Hong Kong
to Sydney in the three-masted French
vessel St. Paul in 1858. They were mak-
ing for the goldfields. The Europeans on
board managed to get away in a boat,
but all but two of the Chinese were cap-
tured by the Rossel Islanders, penned-up
on shore, and killed as required for the
menu. The Europeans were picked up
after terrible suffering. One of them,
Narcisse Pallatier, who had shipped at
Bordeaux as cabin-boy, got lost in the
bush along the Cape York coast when the
castaways pulled in there for water, and
“ Yoo-hoo !”
17 years later was found by a pearling
brig. During those years he had been
living with the blacks, and was not at all
disposed to forsake his nomadic life. In
due course, however, he was sent to
Sydney and back to his Bordeaux home,
Brisbane people subscribing to pay his
passage.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Early settlers in
Westralia were no more impressed by
the light lands than were the scientists
who for decades declared them useless
for agriculture. They passed over them
to take almost any other sort of land.
Similarly the prospectors, spreading
over the deserts, seeking only gold.
They scorned the granite and the iron-
stone, the beryl and the basalt; said
it was worthless, classed it as dirt. Now
other prospectors are seeking the baser
metals to supply a market which previ-
ously didn’t exist, and the lucky ones are
making the fortunes the gold-seekers
dreamt of. And farmers are competing
to pay big money for the easily-cleared
light lands, which become highly-produc-
five with the use of trace-elements,
* * * *
“Chuck”; As Steve approached the
house Charlie’s voice floated out to him,
and, doubtful whether the old bloke was
on his own, he halted to take it in. “Who
spilt that jam on the table-cloth?” de-
manded Charlie in a long-suffering voice,
“Yair, I’m a dirty, careless loafer, that’s
what I am. First it’s me tea, now the jam.
Think a woman’s got nothin’ to do but
clean up after me? Do I? Eh? Workin’
’er fingers t’ the bone every day of ’er
life, for a useless good-f’-nothin’ that
ain’t worth it. Cripes, she should never
’a’ married me, that’s what she should
never ’ve.” There was silence for a
second or two, then the voice resumed:
“There I go, puttin’ me dirty boots on
the chairs. Ain’t I been told about that
a million times? Yair, an’ I need a shave.
Dunno why I can’t have a shave ev’ry
week like a decent bloke, ’stead o’ gettin’
around the place like a howlin’ disgrace.
If I ain’t pullin’ the buttons orf me pants,
I’m chuckin’ newspapers about jus’
delib’rate t’ make the place untidy, an’
it ain’t right. No more is chuckin’
tobacca-ash all over the clean floor
neither. Me? ... I oughter go ’n’ live
in a sty, I oughter.” Steve stepped inside
and at his look of inquiry Charlie’s eyes
dropped in embarrassment. “Aw, it ain’t
nothin’,” he mumbled with a shuffle.
“Only . . . well, y’ know how it is, Steve.
A man feels all sorter lorst or somethin’
when the missus is away.”
THE GREEN STALLION
I ride a wild, unbroken steed
In madcap, reckless race;
No whip decrees his breakneck speed,
No bit restricts his pace;
No rein can pull his head aside,
No curb can break his will,
But they who mount the green horse
ride —
And crave no grander thrill.
To mount him as with arching neck
And curving hooves he rears,
The silver mane and lather-fleck
Flung high above his ears!
To feel his mighty chest expand,
To time his downward lunge;
To ride him—foot and head and hand,
Through twist and toss and plunge!
To know the thrill of bondless pace,
Of skill opposed to might;
The pagan blend of reckless race
And wild, primeval fight!
I ride a wild, unbroken steed,
The wave-washed sands our turf;
And gods may envy me, indeed,
Who rides the stallion —Surf,
N.S.W.
B. A. KER.


Your guests
will know
you serve
N.S.W. Distributors:
TOOTH & CO, LIMITED
. 0?
TSf.26.ta
TOLLEY’S
TST
HOSPITAL
LONDON STORY*
“ Trust TILLEY
to make something Better!”
w
It may surprise you, who have known
The TILLEY Domestic Iron Model
DN 250 for a long time, to know that it
is only within the last few months that it
has been released to the Home Market
Recently, at the Dairy Show at Olympia,
LONDON, the iron was exhibited on
our Stand for the first time. Standing a
little to one side, with his wife on his arm,
was a rosy-cheeked farmer. They gazed
in silent admiration at the iron for some
minutes. Then, turning to his wife, he
said with pride in his voice:
“ Trust TILLEY to make something
better I ”
It was obvious that Tilley Lamps and
Radiators had become true friends to
these simple farming folk. They accepted
without question the fact that any new
Tilley product must be the best of its kind.
We felt veiy proud at this spontaneous
demonstration of faith in our products.
It is people who live and work with
Tilley Lamps day by day who know the
value of sound workmanship and
absolute reliability. There is no doubt
about it the new Tilley Domestic Iron
IS better ! 1
No wires—no flexes !
Burns 4 hours on £-pint of Kerosene—ln
or out of doors !
Specially large bevelled sole plate for
smoother ironing.
Saves hours—no walking backwards and
forwards to the hot-plate. Beautifully
finished in cream and gleaming chromium
plating, with black heat-resisting handle.
While import restrictions remain you may have difficulty in obtaining TILLEY
Products. We look forward to the day, not too long distant, when you can once
again freely buy the best. They are obviously well worth waiting for I
Manufacturers’ Representatives
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.,
123-125 William Street. Melbourne, C.l.
Business Rollery Etc.
PRODUCTION AND DIVIDENDS
nPHE higher interim dividends
A that have been a common
feature of the investment scene
since Christmas have a basis, as
a rule, in higher output in the
industry concerned, plus the
knowledge that company taxa-
tion for the current year is 7s. in
the £, against 9s. in the £ prior
to the presentation of the Budget
in 1953.
Another factor has been the
comparative stability of costs.
Between December, 1952, and
March, 1954, the rise in the
average capital-city basic wage
was only ss. a week. Generally
speaking, productivity per
worker has also been better.
Some impressive production
figures have been forthcoming
during the past nine months. In
most industries (some textiles
and food industries principally
excepted) output has been at
record level, or very near it.
Black-coal production, a key
to general industrial activity,
remains at a high level:
• Black Coal.— First half of
1953-54 (to December 31);
9.348.000 tons (9,308,000 tons
same half of 1952-53). Total pro-
duction, 1952-53, 18,546,000
tons. (Record production,
19.171.000 tons in 1951-52.)
The steady increase in the out-
put of electric power, combined
with regular coal-supplies, has
meant that industry can now
work almost without fuel and
power interruptions;
• Electricity. First half
of 1953-54 (to December 31):
7007 million kilowatt hours
(6086 million kwh. for corres-
ponding half of 1952-53). Total
output for 1952-53, 12,289
million kwh. (then a record).
Another basic ingredient of
the modern economy is iron and
steel. The Australian industry is
working at record level, and yet
its production is finding a ready
sale. About two million tons of
pig-iron a year and a slightly
greater amount of steel is now
being turned out, mostly at
Newcastle and Port Kembla
(N.S.W.); —
• Pig-iron.— First half of
1953-54 (to December 31):
950.000 tons (861,000 tons for
corresponding half of 1952-53).
Total production, 1952-53,
1.679.000 tons (then a record).
9 Ingot Steel. — First half of
1953-54: 1,075,000 tons
(935,000 tons for corresponding
half of 1952-53). Total produc-
tion, 1952-53, 1,823,000 tons
(then a record).
Productivity in basic chemicals
and fertilisers is at record level.
In these industries, as in so many
others, a great upsurge in pro-
duction occurred in the first half
of the current financial year:
• Sulphuric Acid, First
half 1953-54, 347,000 tons (first
half 1952-53, 295,000 tons).
Total, 1952-53, 629,000 tons.
C Record, 650,000 tons, 1951-52.)
9 Superphosphate. First
half 1953-54, 824,000 tons (first
half 1952-53, 738,000 tons).
Total, 1952-53, 1,581,000 tons.
(Record, 1,597,000 tons, 1951-52.)
Construction Trades
One of the pointers to con-
structional activity is Portland
cement. For several years there
has been a shortage of cement
in the Commonwealth, and many
types of construction have been
hampered as a result. The
shortage of cement is being
rapidly overtaken, though it is
possible, as supplies become
more assured, that plans for
greater constructional activity
will be prepared. There is a big
lag in public works. Soon Aus-
tralia will be turning out over
two million tons of cement a
year:—■
9 Portland Cement. —First
half of 1953-54, 809,000 tons
(690,000 tons in same half of
1952-53). Total, 1952-53,
1.431.000 tons (then a record).
The building industry through-
out Australia has made a great
recovery over recent months.
Supplies are easier to get and
costs have stabilised. There had
been a sharp setback to the
industry in 1952, but a full
recovery has been made. Output
of bricks and tiles at present is
at a record rate:
9 Clay Bricks. —First half
of 1953-54, 403 million bricks
(326 million same half of
1952-53). Total, 1952-53, 670
million. ( Post-war record, 716
million, 1951-52.)
• Terra - cotta Roofing-
TILES. — First half of 1953-54,
32.5 million tiles (28.6 million
same half of 1952-53). Total,
1952-53, 57.5 million ( then a
record).
Another industry depending
on the building trade is saw-
milling. Again all previous
figures are being exceeded:
• Sawn Native Timber. —
First half of 1953-54, 731 million
super.-feet (687 million super.-
feet same half of 1952-53).
Total, 1952-53, 1308 million
super.-feet. (Record, 1392
million super.-feet in 1951-52.)
The paint industry has not yet
quite recovered to the boom
levels of 1950-51, when a lot of
long-deferred house-painting was
in progress, and industry was
inclined to use up profits in paint-
ing jobs in order to save taxa-
tion. But there is now a recovery
in the output of ready-mixed
paint, while nitro-cellulose
lacquers, enamels and water-
paint are being produced in
record quantities :
© Ready - mixed Paint
(i excluding lacquers and
enamels). — First half 1953-54,
2.466.000 gallons (first half
1952-53, 1,981,000 gallons).
Total, 1952-53, 4,260,000 gallons,
(Record, 5,590,000 gallons,
1950-51.)
• Water-paint ( excluding
kalsomine ). — First half 1953-54,
15.600.000 gallons (first half
1952-53, 12,821,000 gallons).
Total, 1952 - 53, 25,222,000
gallons (then record).
Household Appliances
Trade in household appliances
—vacuum-cleaners excepted—is
booming:
© Domestic Refrigera-
tors. First half 1953-54,
156,500 (first half 1952-53,
101,800). Total, 1952 - 53,
181,700. (Record. 203,900 in
1950-51.)
• Washing - machines.
First half 1953-54, 62,600 (first
half of 1952-53, 36,200). Total.
1952-53, 89,100. (Record,
99,400 in 1951-52.)
• Vacuum-cleaners. First
half 1953-54, 27,300. Total,
1952-53, 38,400. (Record, 70,600
in 1949-50.)
• Radios (other than port-
ables and radiograms).—First
half 1953-54, 125,800 (first half
1952- 70,200). Total, 1952-53,
160,900. (Record in 1950-51.)
The most comprehensive index
of activity in the household-
appliance industry is the produc-
tion of fractional-horsepower
electric motors. Output here
again is at a record rate:
• Electric Motors Under
1 h.p. — First half of 1953-54,
379,649 (same half 1952-53,
217,295). Total, 1952-53, 485,920.
(Record. 553,151, 1951-52.)
The great expansion in sales
of most of these lines has been
partly the result of the vast
growth in the hire-purchase
facilities over the past two years.
Another line on the house-
fitting side of industry;
© Fuel Stoves. —First half
of 1953-54, 23,400 (21,900 same
half of 1952-53). Total, 1952-53,
46.600, (Record, 75,000 in
1950-51.)
© Gas Stoves. —First half of
1953- 21,500 (15,700 same half
of 1952-53). Total, 1952-53,
34,300. (Record, 55,400 in
1950-
• Electric Stoves. First
half, 1953-54, 16,000 (9400 same
half 1952-53). Total, 1952-53,
22.600. (Record. 50,900 in
1951-
Textiles
The textile industry has not
recovered to its 1949-51 level of
activity. The woollen section has
been hit worst, though it is now
recovering:
• Worsted Yarn. — First half
1953-54, 11,700,000/6. (first half
1952- 8,800,000/6.). Total,
1952- 20,100,000/6. (Record,
28,300,000/6., 1948-49.)
© Woollen Yarn, —First half
1953- 9,300,000/6. (first half
1952-53, 6,500,000/6.). Total,
1952- 15,100,000/6. {Record.
22,900,000/6. in 1949-50.)
The yarn-spinning figures are
roughly indicative of conditions
in the industry generally. The
cotton-spinning and -weaving
industry is now back to around
normal:
© Cotton Yarn. — First half
1953- 17,366,000 1 b. {first half
1952-53, 12,529,000/6.). Total.
1952-53, 27,189,000/6. {Record.
35,261,000/6., 1950-51.)
The hosiery industry has never
been busier, and record profits
are being shown by companies
engaged in it. Rayon-weaving,
too, is expanding rapidly—it is
a comparatively new industry:
© Women’s and Girls’
Hosiery. — First half 1953-54,
982,000 dozen pairs {first half
1952- 869,000 dozen pairs).
Total, 1952-53, 1,863,000 dozen
pairs {then a record).
© Rayon Cloth. — First half
of 1953-54, 9,422,000 yards {first
half 1952-53, 6,691,000 yards).
Total, 1952-53, 15,450,000 yards
{record).
The chief rayon-weaving
concerns in Australia are Bruck
Mills (Vic.) and Burlington
(N.S.W.).
Motor Trade
Output of motor-car bodies
and utility-bodies has recovered
to such an extent that current
production is the greatest on
record; —
• Motor-car Bodies {exclud-
ing utilities). — First half 1953-54,
30,258 {first half 1952-53, 21,366).
Total, 1952-53,46,502. {Post-war
record, 46,515 in 1951-52, but
pre-war output was greater.)
Motor-tyre production, too,
which dropped in 1952-53, has
made a sharp recovery, and dur-
ing the first half of 1953-54 was
at a record rate:
• Motor Tyres. — First half
1953- 1,330,000 tyres {first
half 1952-53, 668,000). Total.
1952-53, 1,692,000. {Record.
2,577,000, 1951-52.)
Beer and Ice-cream
There has been no setback in
the output from breweries since
the war ended. A new record
will be established this financial
year:—
© Beer. — -First half 1953-54,
1-11,000,000 gallons (first half
1952-53, 100,000,000 gallons).
Total, 1952-53, 199,000,000
gallons {then a record).
Ice-cream production suffered
a sharp reverse in 1952-53, and
now is slowly recovering:
® Ice-cream. First half
1953-54, 8,598,000 gallons {first
half 1952-53, 7,975,000 gallons).
Total, 1952-53, 13,630,000
gallons. {Record, 17,385,000
gallons, 1951-52.)
There are few spots in the
Australian economy at present
which are not very busy. And it
is being sustained without the
help of much extra trading-bank
credit. Loan and public-works
programmes have been cut back
compared with 1949-51, con-
siderable loan expenditure (such
as the Snowy River scheme) is
being financed out of revenue,
and Budgets are being balanced.
In February Treasury-bills out-
standing at the central bank were
£382 million, compared with
£3BB million a year earlier.
So long as costs can be
restrained and production per
employee increased there appears
to be a sound future ahead of
Australian industry, especially
with population now reaching for
nine million. There may be re-
adjustments in the type of public
demand for commodities, and
there may be a reaction from the
present flood of consumer-credit
offered by the hire-purchase
houses, but the general picture is
one of busy basic industries.
Titanium and Austral-Malay
On Monday the Sydney mining
sharemarket waited on news of
Austral-Malay’s decision with
regard to its option over
Titanium Minerals’ property at
Evans Head (N.S.W.). Tin values
of 3-41 b. a yard over about 70
acres bored had been spoken of
unofficially, with depths of more
than 50ft. (Titanium holds 22,000
acres altogether.) Samples of the
wash had been sent to Taiping
(Malaya) for examination, and
there were Pitt-street rumors
about recoverability of the tin.
C.S.LR.O. reports have been
favorable.
There are 255,000 Titanium
shares of ss, each, and after
going to 31s. 6d. on ’Change they
were down to 195.-20 s. on
Monday.
Austral-Malay has an issue of
100,000 10s. shares. Before
Titanium shares took their leap
these were at 465. Last week
buyers offered 555., sellers ask-
ing 80s.
Until the Titanium property
is thoroughly tested it cannot be
assumed that present highly
attractive prospects will be fully
realised. Jhe terms of the agree-
ment with Austral-Malay have
yet to be made public also.


ŵ
BALDA RIGONA 3.5 Lens £ll 18 0
E/R Case .. 2 12 «
DIAXETTB 2.9 Lens, In-
cluding Case £l6 17 6
BALDINETTE 3.5 Lens .. £l7 19 6
E/R Case 2 12 6
ILOCA Id. 2.9 Lens .. .. £lB 0 0
E/R Case 3 10 0
ILOCA la 2.9 Lens .. .. £l9 10 0
E/R Case 3 10 0
Cairns Camera Centre
Hotel Australia Building,
19 Martin Place, Sydney. BW 9556.
OFFER YOU
A RANGE OF
INEXPENSIVE
35mm
CAMERAS
ẁ
SANDERS
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sander*” can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lta
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agauta —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
Price* and
lb(r mtornsatloD
ipsa application
BE FREE OF PAIN AGAIN!
DIO
TRADE MARK
Gives amazing
relief from all
RHEUMATIC
COMPLAINTS
Enjoy living again, free of the
crippling pains of arthritis,
rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, neuritis and gout.
Dolcin can do for you what it has done for
thousands of men and women throughout the world.
An endless stream of letters of thanks testify to the
rapid and prolonged relief from pain that Dolcin
gives.
Non-toxic, harmless to the heart or any organ,
Dolcin tablets contain an easily absorbed combination
of succinate-salicylate, proven more effective than
any other treatment. You can safely take Dolcin for
long periods, so start back on the road to good
health today.
DON’T SUFFER-TRY DOLCIN TODAY
DOICIN ™ s
relieves all rheumatic pains
, E OMAt |S "
SC.AT.CA
nEUB^ 15
* ef^ lVE
H :
JS 13s
aßL-
r6 u
id# l
mz
ms
■
w
liiMWi
&PSO
/
...
THE DEPENDABLE CIGARETTE
&
/
tyandafi
AND MEDIUM
STRENGTH
X974D-8.53
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
The closing of Frascati’s
Restaurant in Oxford-street adds
a touch of finality to our chang-
ing social habits. When the
middle-classes had money to
spare they liked to dine out. Not
regularly, as with the rich or the
high-living, but on special
occasions like Ladies’ Nights,
twenty - first - birthday parties,
holiday reunions and wedding
anniversaries. It was largely
upon such a clientele that
Frascati’s relied, offering
Edwardian sumptuousness of
gilt and plush and blue as well as
cuisine soignee and the best-
stocked cellar in London.
A glittering evening of other-
worldly opulence, enlivened by
glad-rags and a bottle of hock,
would work out at about 30s.
per person. Which, with income-
tax at 3s. 6d. in the £, was not
out of the way.
Other values, too, have
changed. Mr. Harold Samuels,
the property-owner whose efforts
to “take over” the Savoy group
of hotels caused a considerable
stir a few months back, is said
to be behind the purchase of
Frascati’s freehold —at a price of
something over £630,000. The
future of the building is not
known. It will probably be con-
verted into offices. A strong
rumor is bursting through the
cloak-and-sword secrecy that
always seems to pervade Big
Business transactions. It is that
the building will house the staff
of a firm of football-pool
promoters!
Coffee-houses Return
Food-rationing was a sorry
accomplice of bad catering.
Almost anybody could open a
cafe, serve poor meals and thrive
on it. The worst of those days
are past, thanks to more plentiful
supplies. But the snack-bar is
still with us and the general level
is deplorable. Staffing difficulties
no doubt account for the rigid
menus, the ready-cooked food,
and a standard of service that
suggests the cheap multiple-store.
Perhaps this sloppiness has
indirectly led to the success of
the new, glossy coffee-houses.
Over 70 have opened in London
during the past year and another
20 are on the way. They are
somewhat extravagantly decor-
ated and sell only the best buns
and cakes.
What is different about the
new coffee-houses is that they
don’t seek to emulate their tradi-
tional predecessors (the first one
was opened in the city just over
300 years ago). That is to say,
they don’t encourage customers
to linger over their cups, trans-
acting business or engaging in
literary small-talk. As in pubs,
an empty cup invites a refill or a
vacated place.
Because of heavy overheads
and a necessary limit to the price
asked for snacks a quick turnover
is desirable. The Italian wastes
no time in drinking up and get-
ting out. But the Englishman,
it seems, objects to being hurried
over his coffee.
The popularity of these bars
marks the end of a legend that
the English make poor coffee.
All the bars are fitted with the
expensive Italian “Espresso
machines. An aromatic cup of
coffee, sufficient to please the
choosiest Continental or Ameri-
can, is mechanically certain to
emerge.
The Most-taxed' Nation
According to Queenslander
Colin Clark, who has earned a
reputation in Britain for his
plain-speaking, 40 p.c. of our
national income is derived from
taxation. In his provocative
book Welfare and Taxation he
estimates that every man, woman
and child of Britain’s 36,000,000
manual workers and their
families pays on average nearly
£1 a week in tax. The lower-paid
salary-earner (earning less than
£750 a year) pays nearly 30s. a
week. Above that figure the
average tax exceeds one-half on
all incomes.
By tax Mr. Clark means not
only income-tax, but duty on
tobacco, drink, entertainment
and betting and all forms of
indirect tax. He contends that
the 40 p.c. ratio is altogether
too high and directly responsible
for our comparatively sluggish
production. His remedy is to
unwind the Welfare State and
make the individual provide for
himself, if need be by com-
pulsion. The manual worker,
for example, could insure against
all contingencies at present
covered by the State for a mere
13 p.c. of his income. Trade-
unions would manage unemploy-
ment-insurance and the friendly
societies would run a health-
insurance scheme. Having
reduced direct taxes and Govern-
ment expenditure by half, he
believes that we should soon feel
the benefit of rising production.
That would lead to the abolition
of most indirect taxes and to
happy prosperity.
It is an imaginative solution
and one that commends itself to
all those who believe that the
ipdividual should rely upon seif-
effort rather than upon a Santa
Claus State. Nor is the scheme
fantastically impracticable.
Yet none of its ingenious argu-
ments is likely to have much
effect upon the flabby immov-
ability of the Welfare State. To
monkey about with that is poli-
tical suicide. And it is doubtful
whether the able but single-track
minds of our bureaucrats would
pin much faith in the individual,
whether fending or providing for
himself. A flat tax of 2s. 6d. on
a packet of cigarettes or a gallon
of petrol is not only adminis-
tratively neat but fiscally sure.
Mr. Clark is not quite right in
his assumption that most people
have had enough of “free health”
and would prefer to provide for
themselves. Very many people
already are providing for them-
selves, through pension and
hospital-service schemes, and
their number is growing. What
rattles them is having to pay
through the nose for the benefit
of the improvident.
Sex with Sin
John van Druten’s play “I Am
a Camera” (New Theatre) is an
adaptation of Christopher Isher-
wood’s stories about Berlin in
1930. The idea is that the camera
should record, without any
touching-up, the passing scenes
of that decadent year, when
Berliners were at their lowest
moral ebb and the Nazi move-
ment was no more than scat-
tered rioting.
There are, it is true, some con-
temporary allusions. The straw-
blonde landlady of hefty bust
and intense mien readily falls for
Jew-baiting as a stamping-ground
for her Angst. A sub-plot out-
lines the stiff and edgy courtship
of two other Germans —one an
inhibited, humorless, Teutonic
heiress and the other a gadabout
fortune-hunter. Both are
Jewish. The girl is orthodox and
the man renegade ; but he re-
embraces his faith when the
persecution hardens and the girl
unbends.
Apart from these long shots,
the camera rarely changes focus.
This is set, lens wide open, upon
various aspects of sex and sin.
The chief participant is a Lan-
cashire lass whose taste for low-
living is not to be satisfied in the
affluent respectability of her
normal surroundings. Hence
Berlin. She drinks, sponges and
philanders with a forced but
defiant zest, boasting proudly of
her sluttishness. Only for a short
period, when her not-unnatur-
ally-suspicious mother turns up,
does she behave with maidenly
restraint.
After allowing for the highly-
spiced backchat and simulation
of depravity, the play really boils
down to this: what kind of a
performance does our new young
star, Dorothy Turin, give as the
wanton, Sally Bowles? A
measured assessment might be
“fully competent but not
inspired.” She has the power of
the great actress both to define a
part with instant precision and to
vary her moods without stepping
out of character. Yet her excel-
lent and well-sustained acting is
not. without a trace of self-
consciousness. It falls short of
Winging the house down. There
are, too, other performances no
less well-defined.
—and Without
“The Moon Is Blue,” F. Hugh
Herbert’s comedy of sex kept at
arm’s-length, has reopened at the
Vaudeville, following the success
of the film. Although many
women will, no doubt, enjoy this
long joke, the appeal is so flag-
rantly masculine as to suggest to
them that they might be eaves-
dropping upon some occasion for
men only. Yet the tone is not the
raucous vulgarity of the smoking-
concert, but rather the tongue-in-
cheek urbanity of the after-
dinner speech.
Excluding the girl’s father,
whose appearance is brief as it
is enraged, there are only three
characters: a young innocence
who can’t say no either to men’s
company or to their offers of
monetary help, but who insists on
keeping the party clean ; a young
man, likeable but human, who
can’t bear the strain ; and an old
roue who falls for what the girl’s
less fastidious rival refers to as
“professional virginity.”
Nobody’s honor is besmirched
and true love wins through in the
end.


QUEENSLAND
\
*
★>
NEW SOUTH WALES
CTCtm
jk
From Cope York to Portland"
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
company of Australia limited
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
''in all 3 Eastern States!
ẅ
333 Collins Street, Melbourne
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive McPherson, K. 8.,
C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.;
C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Biverina: S. L. G. Ma'cDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E, P. Learmonth.
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); The Hon. Sir Colin
Sinclair, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); The Hen. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.;
A. B. Heath, C.M.G.; The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C.; The
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
Pastoral Inspector; Frank Laird.
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
Queensland Board: Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, K.C.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
V.D. (Chairman);, J. W. Fletcher, 0.8.8. (Vice-Chairman); B. Hart;
R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., 8.C.E.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager: C. A. Bradfield.
Assistant Manager: C. D. Wrigley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
(Incorporatedi in Victoria) Established 1885
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
SHAREHOLDERS are perplexed by the
dissension on the board. Very briefly
the history of recent developments is that
on March 3 last the then chairman, A.
Howard-Smith, announced at a board-
meeting that his nephew, William How-
ard-Smith, and possibly another candi-
date —J. D. McLarty, a relative of the
Howard-Smith family by marriage—
would seek election to the board in oppo-
sition to Messrs. J. D. Fell and D. B.
Reid, who retire by rotation and are seek-
ing re-election at the annual general meet-
ing on April 28.
At a special board meeting on March
5, J. D. Fell was elected chairman in
place of A. Howard-Smith. On April 1
four members of the board (J. D. Fell,
A. Spain, N. L. Cowper and D. B. Reid)
circularised shareholders, saying in effect,
and among other things, that they in-
tended to resist any attempt by the How-
ard-Smith family to regain control on the
board.
Last week A. Howard-Smith issued a
circular in reply disclaiming that the How-
ard-Smith family interests sought control
of the co., but that they did hold approxi-
mately 40 p.c. (some 880,000 £1 shares)
of the co.’s paid capital of £2,250,000 —
the £250,000 carries a fixed cumulative
0 P-C. —and should therefore have ade-
quate representation on the board. He
stated also that physical disability had not
made it impossible for him to carry out
his duties as a director and as chairman,
and denied that he had failed to carry
out those duties.
Mr, William Howard-Smith holds 7143
shares in the co., of which he has been an
employee (now coal sales-manager) for
the last 22 years. Mr. McLarty holds
1100 shares in the co. He is also chair-
man of Castlereagh House Pty., Ltd.,
which co. holds 11,180 shares in Howard
Smith, Ltd.
There the matter stands until it is
resolved by shareholders at the forthcom-
ing annual general meeting.
The larger part of profits of the Howard
Smith group comes from a widespread
investment portfolio, and the lesser part
from the parent’s own merchandising and
other activities as tug-owner, stevedore,
and managing agent for the subsidiaries,
etc. And shareholders’ prospects look
better than at any time in the last 30
years, thanks largely to revival of earn-
ings of the parent’s extensive shipping and
coal interests.
After eliminating the interests of out-
side shareholders, combined net earnings
of parent and subsidiaries shot up from
£125,674 in 1949 to a record £473,114 last
term, when the improvement was
£92,807:
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.*
r-* Dividends To Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Reserves.
£> £ £, £,
1949.. 125,674 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 135,000 1,777,664
Net unexplained reduction, £10,328 1,767,336
Written off colliery, £32,271 ~ 1,785,065
1950.. 200,089 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 135,000 65,089 1,800,154
Profit sale assets, £128,659 net .. 1,928,813
Written off colliery, £28,342 .. 1,900,471
1951.. 257,473 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 185,000 122,473 2,022,944
Unexplained to genl. res., £12,783.. 2,035,727
Added reserves subside., £447 .. 2,036,174
1952.. 380,307 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 155,000 225,307 2,261,481
Unexplained addition net, £14,771 2,276,252
To special tax reserve, £155,000 2,121,252
1953.. 473,114 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 155,000 318,114 2,439,366
* After deducting outside interests.
Of last term’s profit £155,000 was “set
aside for future income tax,” which may
have some connection with colliery in-
terests, The ordinary provision for taxa-
tion was £181,599 (down £125,306),
which more than accounts for the im-
provement in the year’s net earnings, as
well as suggesting that the 1952 provision
was well in excess of actual requirements.
The allowance for depreciation was
£288,518 (up £56,246).
The £473,114 of profit, which doesn’t
appear to be overstated, leaves out of the
reckoning a net unexplained addition to
reserves of £14,771. The £473,114 covered
the pref. div. and 22.9 p.c, on ord. capital
as against 18.3, 12.1, 9.2 and 5.5 p.c. back
to 1949. The div., gently jacked up from
6 p.c. in 1951 to 7 p.c. in 1952, was main-
tained at 7 p.c., making the average rate
of distribution over the last 26 years 4.2
p.c., compared with an average of 11.9
p.c. for the dozen years before that.
Principal shareholdings are;
Subscribed H.S.’s
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships £1,850,002 £1,849,997
Australian Sugar .. 207,915 158,291
Caledonian Collieries J 464,295 pref. 322,192 pref.
wieuonian joineries. 1>023(599 ord . 869,572 ord.
Invincible Colliery .. 104,000 67,334
B.H.P. .. .. 24,969,074 472,240
so„.h™ P« rt . <*„»,{ jjsssf sßSStrt'-
A. Goninan & Co. .. 298,642 51,053
First four are subsidiaries, and the cur-
tain is kept drawn over the accounts of
the first two of them. The general experi-
ence in shipping and sugar last year was
one of improved earnings. The shipping
co. has a 5500-ton cargo vessel under
construction in Britain, and has placed an
order for another of 3500 tons.
Caledonian Collieries paid pref. divs.
totalling 20^p.c. in respect of 1953, At
that rate arrears of pref. divs. will be
overtaken in about one and half years.
The ords., after quarter of a century in the
wilderness, can thus see prospects of get-
ting into the picture again. Invincible
paid 10 p.c. in 1952 and 1953 ; last previ-
ous distribution was 2} p.c. in 1947.
8.H.P., A. Goninan and Southern
Portland paid 8i p.c., 15 p.c. and 8 p.c.
respectively in 1953, same as for previous
year. B.H.P.’s interim was unchanged.
Finances are comfortable. Principal
balance-sheet movement was the net
addition of £297,535 to the chief earning
assets —steamers, collieries, plant, etc.:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Pref. capital .. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital .. 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Reserves .. .. 2,022,944 2,261,481 2,439,366
Outside capital* .. 453,693 614,739 541,530
Deposits . . .. 7,497 23,205 21,008
Sundry creditors 1,173,667 1,162,766 1,210,032
Workers’ compensation 29,509 31,506 37,431
Tax provision .. 267,245 488,270 517,412
Final divs. .. 83,750 83,750 83,750
£6,288,305 £6,815,717 £7.100,529
Freeholds, etc. .. 559,488 582,262 616,843
Steamers, collieries,
plant, etc. . . 2,037,735 2,152,721 2,450,256
Shares other cos... 1,140,878 1,148,258 1,144,047
Stocks, etc. . . 408,489 581,383 623,811
Debtors . . . . 1,208,933 1,200,407 1,140,361
Govt, securities and
cash, etc. .. 932,782 1,150,686 1.125,211
£6,288,305 £6,815,717 £7,100,529
* Including proportion of reserves.
Excluding shares in other cos., the shrink-
age in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,019,750) was only £30,829, despite a
net outlay of £332,116 on fixed assets.
At 325. (335. a year ago) the f.-p. £1
ords, return 4.3 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis,
or 6.2 p.c. should the distribution rise to
10 p.c., which, on the basis of consolidated
figures, has been within easy reach for the
last two years. The 6 p.c. prefs. at 225.
yield 5.4 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £lB 15s. 2d. prefs. and 245. 4d.
ords,
R. H. Gordon & Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
A money-spinner in its heyday, Gor-
don’s is still a good profit-earner and
dividend-payer with strong reserves, a
sound financial structure and an experi-
enced management. Of recent years the
emphasis in the board room has been
upon moderate rather than rapid expan-
sion of the undertaking, and for the most
part profits have been distributed as they
were earned. While such a policy makes
for stability through more-or-less hand-
picked connections, it also means that
investors have to look for their returns
chiefly to the rate of dividend, sweet-
ened with occasional issues of bonus-
scrip or of new shares for cash on favor-
able terms.
Since 1909, when the public first be-
came interested, the co. issued £307,450
of bonus-scrip and returned £223,333 of
its capital, leaving the figure at £194,250
in f.-p. 15s, shares. Last gift was one-
for-three early in the 1951 term. Divs.
averaged 18.7 p.c. for the 18 years to
1930, 12.6 p.c. for the next decade, 13.3
p.c, for the five years to 1945, and 19.3
p.c. for the next quinquennium, which
marked the height of the post-war boom.
Then, following the flood of imports,
and slackening of activity in the
building trade and in the furnishing,
etc., that goes with it, earnings receded
and the div, was lowered from 20 p.c. in
1950 to 16.6 p.c, and 13.3 p.c. for the two
following years
The co. shared in the general trade
revival during 1953, and turnover and net
earnings responded and the div. was
lifted to 15 p.c.;
. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ •£ £ £
1947.. 33,430 18J p.c. = 26,676 7 - 9nQ
To staff fund, £lOOO .. f 5,755 209,502
1948.. 87,300 20 p.c. = 29.100 ?
To staff fund, £l5OO .} 6,796 216,202
1949.. 34,672 20 p.c. = 29,100 1 . „„„
To staff fund, £l5OO ~ f 4,672 220,274
1950.. 43,226 20 p.c. = 29,100 7 9 , 9 400
To staff fund, £2OOO .. j 12,126 232.400
Asset revaluation reserve, £47,250.. 279,650
Bonus share issue, £47,250 .. 232,400
1951.. 36.918 16fp.c.= 32,313 7 9finf - 9 0 5 0 05
To staff fund. £2OOO ..J 2605 235,005
1952.. 25,444 13J p.c. = 25,900 7 9 00 nao
To staff fund, £l6OO ..J 233,040
1953.. 38,095 16 p.c. = 29.138 7 qK » 9 .„ nnR
To staff fund, £2OOO .. J 6)957 240,006
The £38,095 (up £12,651) of profit was
equal to 19.6 p.c. on capital as against
13.1, 19, 29.7, 23.8, 25.6 and 22.9 p.c.
back to 1947. On capital and reserves
combined the year’s profit was only
8.7 p.c.
The co, grew up in the cash-order
business, but the bulk of its trade today
is in furniture, furnishings, crockery and
other household goods. And much of
the turnover is financed on a hire-purchase
basis by the co. itself.
Last term’s improved trading is further
reflected in a growth of £69,419 in hire
agreements and book-debts:
„ 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. .. £194,250 £194,250 £194,250
Reserves .. .. 235.006 233,050 240,007
Sundry creditors* ~ 110,626 82,322 92,921
Overdraft .. .. 10,279 39,966
Staff fund .. ~ 16,666 17,055 17,728
Final div 16,188 12,950 16,188
£583,015 £539,627 £601,060
Property and plant, etc. 142,281 143,124 142,680
Stock 145,986 95.358 96,859
Hire agreements and
book debts .. .. 291,183 289,263 358,682
Shares, debentures, etc. 3,505 3,505 2,729
Cash, etc 110 8,377 110
£583,015 £539,627 £601,060
• Including taxation.
To help meet the outlay the co. went to
its bankers for £39,966 and to sundry
creditors, etc., for a further £10,599.
There was a net improvement of £7401 in
the more-or-less liquid surplus (£291,577),
or working capital. Hire agreements,
etc., which dominate the financial struc-
ture, appear less an unspecified provision
(believed to be substantial) for bad debts,
etc.
Turnover has remained buoyant since
the close of accounts, and costs are
steadier than they were last year, both of
which augur well for maintenance of the
15 p.c. distribution. At 325. 3d. (375.
a year ago) the f,-p. 15s. shares return
7 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis, or 6.2 p.c,
on, say, a 13.3 p.c. distribution. Net tan-
gible cover is 335. 6d., and assets are
believed to be worth more than their
book-value.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
/"VNE of Australia’s leading producers
of lingerie, hosiery and men’s-wear,
Lustre enjoys a strong position in the
trade, technically and financially. A
vigorous post-war programme of moderni-
sation, which has meant the scrapping of
old plant and installation of fast, labor-
saving, more-or-less automatic machines,
together with the mastery of nylon and
other synthetic fibres and adoption of the
latest techniques in production-planning
and -control, has quickened output, bene-
fited unit costs and kept the co. abreast
of the ever-changing demands of fashion.
And the importance of all these things
has received fresh emphasis from the facts
that production has now practically
caught up with demand, import restric-
tions are being relaxed, and competition
is getting a keener edge on it.
Net earnings advanced from an aver-
age of £35,094 for the five years to 1948
to £86,845 for the five years to the close
of last accounts, the ratios to average
capital (which had grown from £310,000
to £483,333) being 11.3 p.c. and 17.9 p.c.
respectively over the same two periods;
and the average rate of distribution to the
ords, stepped up from 9 p.c. to 10.8 p.c.
Here are performances in detail since
1946:
r-' Dividends ,To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. Pref.* Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1946.. 29.860 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 1.460 117,269
1947.. 40.622 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 12,722 129,991
1948.. 45.562 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 17,662 147,653
Share premiums, £17,000 ..164,653
Insurance appears, £lO,OOO ..174,653
1949.. 51.416 p.c. 9 p.c. 31,500 19,916 194,569
1950.110,074 10 „ 12$ „ 55,332 54.742 249,311
Unexplained addition, £28,000 ~ 277,311
Proceeds revalued assets, £200,000 .. 477,311
1961.. 89.487 10 p.c.lOip.c. 49,333 40,154 517,465
1952.. 74.123 10 „10 „ 48,334 25,789 543,253
1953.109,125 10 „ 12£ ~ 58,333 50.792 594,045
* Pref. div. subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act.
The peak profit figure of 1950 was
boosted by inclusion of a special £23,650
from the New Zealand subsidiary. Lustre
(N.Z.), Ltd., paid out of accumulated
profits. Though sales continued on the
up-grade, the parent’s profits declined in
1951 and 1952, due mainly to narrower
margins following the continued rise in
wage-rates and fall in raw-material prices
—£24,070 was written off the book-value
of cotton-yarns and cotton-products in
1952.
Last term turnover further strength-
ened, and wage and other operating costs
were less troublesome. Gross profit
(£488,202, up £79,469) increased by 19.4
p.c., while the growth in exes. (£337,940,
up £34,695) was no more than 11.4
p.c.—they include unspecified amounts
sent to tax reserve and the staff
fund. So, after setting aside £45,173
(up £10,304) for depreciation, and
including £4036 dropped into the
insurance reserve, the net result bene-
fited by £35,002, reaching £109,125. That
was enough to pay the prefs. their full
contract rate of 10 p.c. (£8333) and show
25.2 p.c. on the £400,000 of ord. capital,
compared with 16,4, 20.3, 20.8, 16.7 and
17.1 p.c. back to 1948. The div. was kept
at 10 p.c. and a 2\ p.c bonus was added,
making \2% p.c. for the year.
Despite the brisker trading, book-debts
were reduced by £16,828 and stocks (at
cost or under) increased by only £4496:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Ord. capital .. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Pref. capital .. 83,333 83,333 83,333
Reserves .. .. 517,464 543,253 594,045
Mortgages .. 200,000 195,000 190,000
Overdraft ~ .. 265,042 269,189 245,272
Creditors .. . . 55,456 51,787 73,283
Tax provision .. 148,059 108,417 113,867
Final div. . . 20,166 24,167 34,167
£1,689,520 £1,675,146 £1,733,967
Freeholds .. . . 371,701 425,882 503,906
Plant .. .. 160,277 174,752 167,864
Shares subsid. . . 17,210 17,210 17,210
Stocks .. .. 912,248 781,234 785,730
Debtors .. .. 227,458 275,426 258,598
Cash, etc 626 642 659
£1,689,520 £1,675,146 £1,733,967
The cut of £23,917 in the overdraft was
nearly counterbalanced by the growth of


OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
“JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5j ins. x 3i ins.,
6fi x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
w
Samples and Prices
on application .
Jackson & O'Sullivan
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Research in Industry . . .
ŵ
'
N
'J> ' *'
m:
I'-.v
OSSSSSSSSaT.
„ n.
a
?*■ -
r Dreams Come True
Men and women engaged in research are always looking to
the future and their work is continually bringing forth
exciting new developments. Throughout the world I.C.L
spends, each year, over £7,500,000 on Research and
Development.
Much of this is inevitably spent on producing better pro-
ducts and in improving methods of making them, but a
considerable part is devoted to pure research that is, the
pursuit of knowledge for its own sake with no immediate
commercial end in view. Laboratories exist in I.C.L which
are mainly devoted to pure research but the focal point for
this sort of work must be our Universities.
Recognising this, I.C.L helps Universities in both Great
Britain and Australia to provide approximately 100 research
fellowships in science open to graduates of any race,
religion or nationality. I.C.L also helps Universities and
other research organisations by providing chemicals and
apparatus, believing that this will be of benefit not only to
the Company itself, but also to the British Empire. Leader-
ship and scientific research may well be our best guarantee
for the future.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
L.5ac.4300 ■
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street. Melbourne. 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents ana
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR FREDERICK JOHN
WOODWARD formerly of 4t Waratah
Street Haberfield. —TAKE NOTICE that
ALMA DOLORES WOODWARD has fileu
a Petition for Divorce No. 361 of 1954
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for 8 years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under s. 19 (2) (a; oi
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If yen
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 14th June
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from C. MCCLELLAND
SMITH, Solicitor, of 60 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LIONEL JAMES WARE (also called
DARE) late of 232 Glebe Road Glebe.—
TAKE NOTICE that JESSAMINE
MARIE WARE (formerly JESSAMINE
MARIE CHINNERY but also known as
MARIE McFARLANE Spinster) has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 669 of 1954
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you_ may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 11th June 1954 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge
from S. D. RATNER, Solicitor, of 56
Hunter Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
( Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WARES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 3025 AND BW 1073
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
fcUlh in the
future
m
The more I look at Australia from within, the
more I am convinced that its most pressing need at the
moment is brilliant, imaginative planning and action -
by men inspired to sink themselves in their country s
service.
These are not times when we can take what comes
and make the best of it. Things are really moving m
other countries, many of them not nearly so naturally
favoured as ours. And Australians will have to keep
pace if they are to survive in freedom and plenty.
Let me give you an example of what I mean by
the Imaginative, the Constructive. The rains came
down again this year, a large part of northern
Australia has been saturated, towns have been flooded
out lives lost and damage amounted to millions or
pounds. The water has run out to the sea tor
hundreds of miles along the coast; water that means
life for a parched continent.
When the late Dr. BradfieM propounded a scheme
20 years ago for diverting northern flood waters across
the Range into the western stock lands of Queensland,
his idea was rejected by some eminent engineers as
impracticable, and by others as beyond finance.
Dr. Bradfield was a genius just a little ahead
of his time, and I am certain the years will prove him
right. Australia must conserve its water by damming
and tanking, for which there is now earth-moving
machinery to simplify that part of the job.
But I see the time, perhaps not far ahead, when
we will be flowing in water from the coast. Mainten-
ance of production for a growing population will force
it.
Geographically speaking, little is impossible to
engineering today. Look at the United States, with
26 000 miles of pipeline to pump oil and oil products
across 37 of the 48 States of the Union. If that can be
done with oil in America, why can t something along
these lines be done with water in Australia?
And financially speaking, Australia cannot afford
to go on in perpetual cycles of drought and flood.
The gross value of our rural production now is about
£lOOO million a year. We can insure that, and multiply
it, for a fraction of what the land now yields m 12
months.
Now where are the leaders with the Faith and
Courage to say “It Shall be Done”?
£21,496 in the creditors item.
The most important movement
was the addition of £78,024 to
freeholds. It reflects completion
of the new factory at Newcastle,
where the co. originally set up in
1941 to help overcome labor
difficulties. This new factory
didn’t get into full production
until toward the close of last ac-
counts, and it “should be of great
benefit in the future,” the chair-
man says.
As for the current term, turn-
over has remained buoyant, with
wage and other costs compara-
tively steady and employment
high. Hence there is nothing at
the moment to suggest that the
p.c. to the ords. might be in
any danger.
The market expresses its con-
fidence in the future of the
undertaking by pricing the f.-p.
£1 ords. at 435. (375. 6d. a year
ago) to return 5.3 p.c. on a I2j
p.c. distribution. Last sale ot
the prefs. was at 305., yielding
6.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover is £l2 IBs. 7d.
prefs. and 495. Bd. ords.
Appleton Industries, Ltd.
RAPID progress, financially
and otherwise, has been the
fortune of this youthful under-
taking, whose outlook is still a
bright one. Formed in 1948, the
present holding co, took over
the louvre-window-manufactur-
ing business of N. V. Appleton
Pty. and its distributing subsi-
diary, Naco Trading Pty., then
located at South Brisbane. The
price was £77,500 (in scrip), and
£82,500 of fresh cash-paid capi-
tal was gathered to buy larger
premises and 18 acres of freehold
at Hendra, near Brisbane, from
the Government and others, and
to provide for additional plant
and working capital.
The range of manufactures
was immediately extended to an
electric hot-water system, electric
stoves, plastic-combination sinks,
washing-machines, speed-driers,
rotary clothes-hoists and other
domestic appliances. Branches
were opened at Sydney and Mel-
bourne, where previously-rented
premises were recently bought. A
ready market awaited the new
products, and sales and profits
stepped along in fine style. To
help finance the growing trade
£40,000 of fresh capital was
gathered at par in 1950, making
the total on the register £200,000.
The div, was lifted from 8 p.c.
in 1949 to 10 p.c. in 1950, and
has remained steady since, more
being put on the shelf than was
distributed;
Appleton Industries and Subsidiaries.
Be- De-
June, Profit. / —Dividends.—., tained, licit.*
£ £ £ £
1949.-22,217 8 p.c.=12,800 9,417 13,676
Surplus on sale of assets,
£586 .. ~ 13,090
Re-
serves.*
1950..48,178 10 p.c.=16,000 32,178 19,088
Surplus on sale of assets, £l2 19,100
1951..98,959 10 p.c.=18,497 80,462 99,562
1952..62,766 10 „ „ 20,000 42,766 142,328
Surplus on sale of assets,
£341 142,669
1953..69,497 10 p.c.=20,000 49,497 192,166
* After deducting intangibles, now
£18,383.
Easing of activity in the build-
ing trade and the need to write-
down stocks by an unstated
amount were responsible for the
sharp drop in the 1952 profit.
Last term turnover eased a little,
washing-machines being the most
sluggish line in the inventory.
However, net earnings were
£6731 stronger, thanks mainly to
the cut in co.-tax rates. The allow-
ance for taxation (£40,813) was
£12,584 lighter, and £3737 less
was set aside for depreciation
(£20,419). The £69,497 of profit
claimed was 34.7 p.c. on capital
as against 31.3, 53.3, 30.1 and
13.8 p.c. back to 1949.
Stocks (in at a figure not ex-
ceeding cost) were reduced by
£204,154, and the money was used
mainly to lighten the overdraft
(down £91,971) and clear tax-
liabilities (down £115,000):
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Reserves . . 99,562 142,328 192,166
Mortgage .'. 4,000
Overdraft .. 77,533 247,662 155,691
Ta x provi-
sion . . 111,552 155,000 40,000
Creditors .. 207,254 180,309 175,111
Final div. . 10,000 20,000 10,000
£705,901 £949,299 £772,968
Freeholds . 58,691 75,428 68,312
Plant, etc. . 96,915 138,192 158,077
Stocks . . 366,459 577,515 373,361
Debtors . . 183,662 157.990 173,044
Cash .. 174 174 174
£705,901 £949,299 £772,968
Installation of new galvanising
plant and the revival of trade to-
wards the close of accounts were
the main factors behind the lift
of £19,885 in plant, etc., and of
£15,054 in debtors’ balances.
When the books closed there was
17s. 4d. coming to the bank and
sundry creditors for every £1 of
net tangible assets belonging to
shareholders in the business.
To lighten the debt, which had
been bumped up by the purchase
of properties in Sydney and Mel-
bourne already referred to, and
provide for further expansion,
the manufacturing subsidiary
issued 50,000 £l6 p.c. prefs. in
September last, which are re-
deemable by instalments over
the next seven years. Also the
holding co. has just issued
200,000 new ss. ords. at par,
payable in full on application,
April 22, mainly to provide addi-
tional working capital.
Locally turnover has increased
during the current term, and the
co.’s export trade, to which a
lot of attention has been given
lately, is reported to be widening.
Still, the management is “con-
cerned over the influence that
Australian steel prices will play
in determining the eventual ex-
tent of the co.’s exports to world
markets.” Maintenance of the
10 p.c. div. on the increased
capital appears to be in no
danger at the moment.
At Bs. 3d., ex rights, the f.-p.
ss. shares return 6 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. The rights re-
cently sold at 3s. Id., making
total cost per share Bs. Id., and
the yield 6.2 p.c. Including the
new capital, net tangible cover is
Bs. lOd.
According to a preliminary
announcement. Great Western
Consolidated, N.L., youngest
and biggest member of the Wes-
tern Mining Corp. group, will
show a small surplus for the
year to March 23 last from treat-
ment of 420,129 tons ore for
51,2720 z. fine gold, an average
of 2.4dwt. per ton. The co.’s
leases are at Southern Cross
(W.A.), where its 30,000-ton-a-
-month mill got going at end
November, 1952. The bulk of
the ore is apparently still com-
ing from the open-cut, where re-
coveries have been below expec-
tations, due to dilutions in open-
ing up the quarry. Underground
55ft. of driving on No. 8 level
recently disclosed Bdwt. stuff
over a width of 19ft. In the
prospectus proved ore was put
at 790,000 tons, averaging
3.4dwt., in the opencut, and
500,000 tons, averaging 5.5dwt.,
underground. The accounts and
full report covering last term’s
operations are not yet available.
On the market the co.’s f.-p. 10s.
shares fetch ss. 3d. as against a
peak of 10s. 4d. in 1952.
* * * *
London - controlled Paringa
earned a profit of £84342 last
year as against losses of £86797
and £826,769 for the two pre-
ceding years. A one - time
prominent producer on the Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile (W.A.), the
co. is now a holding and invest-
ment concern, having sold its
leases and plant, etc., to its next-
door neighbor (Gold Mines of
Kalgoorlie) in 1951 for £868,000
—costs were the trouble. Paid
capital is £270,440 in Is. shares,
which now fetch around 4}d.
each in the local market.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Held at the Village Theatre, Watson’s
Bay, in aid of the Bush Book Club, the
preview of the French film, “An Artist
With Ladies,” almost took on the appear-
ance of a reunion, so intimate and
friendly was the audience and so lively
the conversation both before the show
and at the interval. Miss Elizabeth North-
cott was present, wearing a graceful
gown of white jersey with an emerald-
green stole, and with her fiance, Squadron-
Leader Russell Nash, was the guest of
the president of the club, Miss Barbara
Knox, who wore black lace with an
embroidered cream shawl. Others in the
well-dressed company included Mr. and
Mrs, Alistair Stephen, Mr. and Mrs. D.
Allen, Mrs. Lennox Bode, Mrs. John
Bottomley, Mrs. C. B. Wincott, Mrs.
Norman Hill, Mrs. Neville Manning. One
couldn’t help noticing how insipid was
the supporting film, a ballet fantasy fea-
turing Sally Gilmour, in comparison with
the sauciness of the French film, and how
the gusts of laughter indicated that those
who could speak French enjoyed the
dialogue even more than those who
depended on the quite amusing captions.
* ☆ ☆
Refreshing both to mind and to body
is the Women’s Amenities Centre in
Hyde Park, which was officially opened
by the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. P. D. Hills,
last week. Doubtless it will convert many
to the modern type of architecture and
decor, for the spaciousness of its design
and the uplifting effect of its color-
schemes are most impressive. In addition
to the lounge, with its parquet floor,
duck-egg-blue walls and tile-red pillars,
there are feeding-rooms for mothers
(both of these amenities free); there are
shower-rooms, ironing-rooms, foot-baths
and dressing-rooms, for all of which the
cost is quite low. The kindergarten and
nursery have all the latest equipment and
are soundproof, and the fee (2s. 6d. for
three hours) is remarkably modest. Mrs.
Gertrude Melville, M.L.C., and Mrs.
Jesson, president of the Housewives’ Asso-
ciation, spoke at the opening, and tribute
was paid to Mrs. E. O’Dea, who, as a
former Lady Mayoress, had worked for
this project.
☆ ☆ ☆
The well-known Little Theatre Group,
The Genesians, now have their own
theatre at 420 Kent-street, and, although
it is quite small (it seats only 150 people),
it is conveniently situated and provides a
permanent “home” in the city, a boon
thoroughly appreciated by any group of
amateur actors. The theatre was opened
and blest by Cardinal Gilroy last Thurs-
day evening in the presence of dis-
tinguished citizens, members of the Diplo-
matic Corps and of the judiciary, after
which there was a performance of T. S.
Eliot’s “Murder in the Cathedral.”
* ☆ *
The Handicraft pavilion at the Show
as usual is drawing record crowds, and
it is interesting to see how many men
take an interest in the exhibits. The iced
cakes have a particular fascination, and
the competitors this year have certainly
let their fancy roam. The prizewinner
shows a little girl curtsying, to the Queen,
who is wearing a gown something like
the Coronation gown. The second prize
went to a breakfast-tray done in icing,
the body of the teapot being a Dresden-
china-like lady with a skirt of tiny pink
frills. Conspicuous, too, was a large
model of a cathedral with two spires,
and another of Cinderella fleeing down
the steps at midnight.
☆ ☆ ☆
Glenda Raymond glittered like a fairy
at the first Sydney concert of her tour, in
a dress of powder-pink with a wide, deep
neckline and long sleeves. The bodice
was embroidered all over with a network
of crystal beads and rhinestones, and
from a closely-fitted hipline the skirt of
pink tulle sprang out like the bell of a
flower. She was very enthusiastically
received by a large audience (the Town
Hall was about seven-eighths full) and,
although she set herself some very difficult
arias to sing, showed that she has become
one of Australia’s most attractive singers.
* ☆ *
Australian-made toys in an exhibition
in the Lower Town Hall included a small
pedal-tractor, a doll’s frock-shop, a doll’s
double-decker bed, a child’s shopping-
stroller and an outsize red scooter (for
elephants and small boys). There were
trains and a little submarine (especially
for fathers) and a fearsome “disintegra-
tor” gun with which your small son can
pulverise you. There were koalas and, of
course, teddy-bears, which time does not
seem to be able to wither nor custom stale.
News of interest to young ladies four
to 12 years of age is that they can now
buy their dolls’ clothes, beautifully fin-
ished, off the rack, packaged and sized
just like their own clothes. These are
being made by the firm of S. Briar, whose
family have made this type of thing for
many years in Vienna. A baby-doll can
be bought with its whole layette, a
bride-doll with her trousseau (including
ring and confetti), a schoolgirl in a brown
tunic with her sports-clothes, school-bag,
books, etc. Educational, too, are the kits
for making dolls’-clothes which are sold
complete with sewing needs.
The Meryla Marionettes, which held
the children entranced at the Toy Exhi-
bition, are to be commended on the
originality of their presentation. There
is nothing stereotyped about their story
of the scarecrow who sighs because he
never goes anywhere, the crow who
brings him news of the circus, the baby
seal, the mamma seal, the dancing xylo-
phone, the concertina man who plays
himself, the clown with the flower grow-
ing out of his head, the magic ringmaster
and other circus figures who follow one
another to perform before the scarecrow.
There is possibly a little too much talking
in the production; these marionettes can
speak for themselves, but perhaps this
would not seem so obvious in a quieter
theatre than a toy exhibition visited by
scores of children.
Pat Woodley is one of Sydney's leading
models and will be among those to grace
the Models and Photographers' Ball at
the Trocadero on April 28. The proceeds
of this are in did of the Smith Family's
good works. Pat, formerly a school-
teacher, gave up her work with the
N.S.W. Education Department to enter
the fashion-field, and in 1950 was chosen
to be Miss Australia. To-day she conducts
her own academy for the training of girls
who wish to be models. Photograph by
Dorothy Welding.
ẃ
Mrs. Donald Smith, Mrs. H. A. Showers,
Mrs. Frank Packer and Mrs. George Mc-
Cadden as executives. Committee-mepi-
bers includes Mesdames Sydney Al-
bright, Jack Cassidy, R. Larkin, Angus
Macpherson, Rudolph Mueller, Hector
McCowan, W. Mitchell, R. R. Parr,
Maurice Samuels, E. S. Scorfield, W. S.
Smith, H. C. Steiner, Florence Taylor,
Noel Vincent, Ernest Watt and Allen
Williams.
MELBOURNE
Bowls of beautiful pastel-toned gladioli
decorated the Victoria League clubrooms
for a late-afternoon party in honor of
the British Memorial Fund Fellows and
Asian students in this city under the
Colombo plan.
Mrs. R. A. Slaughton, chairman of the
Hospitality Committee of the league, and
vice-chairman Mrs. F. H. Brooke received
the guests. Mrs. H. F. Maudsley, senior
vice-president, was also present.
British Memorial Fund Fellows were
Miss J. Hitchfield, Mr. J. W. Haywood
and Mr. A. L. Walker, The gay saris
worn by the Asian women present were
a colorful contrast to the smart black
frocks worn by other guests—Mrs. R. G.
Casey was one who looked smart in
black. Miss J. Muntz and Vi Tivey
both chose attractive grey ensembles.
Paddy Wilkinson’s pretty brown-faille
frock was trimmed with bronze beads.
Members of the Victoria League’s Young
Contingent were Marjorie Tatnall and
Charmian Watts.
Mrs. John Read has been public rela-
tions officer with the Victorian division of
Red Cross for the past six years. During
the war she worked with the Netherlands
Information Service, and it was in Java,
where she worked for eight months, that
she met once again John Read, who, dis-
charged from the Air Force, was a photo-
grapher in the N.I.S. They were married
in a little English church in Java by the
Chaplain-General with the East-Asian
forces. Mrs. Read recently assisted in
organising the 40th Red Cross Birthday
Fair at the Town Hall. Photograph by
John Read.
w
Lady Brooks the little red stickers quickly
appeared.
Both the opening, which took the
form of a cocktail-party, and the sale
from a number of pictures, will assist the
funds of the Opportunity Clubs. Lady
Brooks, who was received by the presi-
dent of the Clubs Eugene Gorman, Q.C.,
and Lady Clapp, wore a gunmetal shan-
tung suit and a small cap of claret-red
velvet. Lady Clapp wore an oatmeal
coat with a black frock and a small hat
in oatmeal toning.
Mrs. Gillespie wore a tiny cap of green
leaves with her full-skirted frock of pale-
beige taffeta. Mrs. Geoffrey Smith, a
member of the organising committee,
chose a slim black skirt and a black-and-
white tweed jacket piped with black.
Mrs. Iris Clarke, who is public relations
officer for Opportunity Clubs, wore a sea-
green silk shantung frock and a shrimp-
pink velvet-petalled cap and mink stole.
Mrs. J. Balfe chose an ink-blue velvet
suit and a matching cloche.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and
Lady Brooks paid a surprise visit to the
Little Theat e and saw the first-night
presentation of “Lord Arthur Saville’s
Crime.” Lady Brooks looked most
attractive in an evening-gown of hya-
cinth-blue chiffon, which she wore under
a blue-fox cape. The guests in the vice-
regal party included Marion McPherson,
Heather Turner-Laing, Gillian Pain and
aides-de-camp Captain Kirwan-Taylor
and Lieut. Larkins.
☆ * ☆
To help raise money for rebuilding the
Little Theatre, and particularly to furnish
the foyer, a committee calling itself the
Foyer Fund has been formed. Producer
Irene Mitchell is convenor, June Mackay
hon. treasurer, Elizabeth McMeekin hon.
secretary and Deirdre Neylon is in charge
of publicity. A large committee includes
Mrs. D. J. Ross, Mrs. W. B. Hearne,
Mrs, P, D, Phillips, Mrs. Peter Randall
(daughter-in-law of Brett Randall,
founder of the Little Theatre), Mrs. Doha
Ribush (her late husband produced Doug-
las Stewart’s play “Ned Kelly”), Mrs.
Dan Reddan and Mrs, Maurice Copolov.
Functions lined up: a barbecue at the
Kallista home of Mrs. W. H. McKechnie
on May 2 ; Children’s Nursery Rhyme
party at the theatre on May 8 at 2.30 p.m.
and in the evening a Mad Hatters’ party.
Irene Mitchell will present “Figure of
Fun” at the Little Theatre’s Gala Night,
when tickets will cost one guinea each,
and on June 9 a Cabaret Dance will be
held at the New Alexander.
☆ ☆ ☆
Illuminated crowns, ships, and scarlet
banners bearing the club’s motif, the
Ensign, were used as decorations
for the dinner-dance arranged by the
White Ensign Club. White lifebelts
were also used as decorations, and in the
foyer of the Royale Ballroom, where the
function was held, were large white urns
filled with mixed flowers in autumn ton-
ings, and on every table were gold-lac-
quered baskets filled with scarlet berries,
gold leaves and pine-cones.
Guests were received by club president
K. G. Luke and Mrs. Luke, her mag-
nolia-satin gown embroidered with tiny
blue flowers and rhinestones. The slim
skirt was highlighted at the back with
a flowing bustle-train of turquoise-blue
tulle. Lady Collins was in the official
party, and her gown of oyster-grey satin
had a swathe of pale-green taffeta across
the bodice, forming a bow on the hip
and falling in graceful folds to the hem-
line.
* ☆ ☆
Mr. S. F. Tung, adviser to the Over-
seas Chinese Affairs Commission, was
guest-of-honor at a late afternoon-tea
party given by Chinese Consul T. W. Liu
and Mrs. Liu at their Ivanhoe home. Son
Alex assisted his parents receive the 60
guests, who enjoyed the Chinese dishes.
Mrs. Liu wore a traditional national cos-
tume made in a deep shade of blue satin,
sprigged with a gold pattern. Over it
she wore a hip-length tunic-jacket of
black satin, also patterned in gold.
Many well-known members of the
Chinese community were present, and
other guests included Mr. W. J. Jung-
wirth (secretary to the Premier’s Depart-
ment) and Mrs. Jungwirth, Mr- and Mrs
Ray Dooling, the Frank Menzieses, Mr.
and Mrs. W. K. Burnside and Dr. and
Mrs. Arnold Richardson. Consular
representatives present included Mr.
Givon Parsons (Consul for the U.S.A.)
and Mrs. Parsons, and the U.S. Army-
Air Force Attache, Colonel J. L. Sulli-
van, and Mrs. Sullivan.


Missing Friend
Would ALFRED HOLMES, son of John
and Margaret Holmes, or anyone know-
ing of his whereabouts, please communi-
cate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, P.O. Box 429, Dunedin, New
Zealand.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divokcb.
TO JOHN DUGAN WHITTAKER
formerly of 10c Housing Commission
Cottages Merrylands.—TAKE NOTICE
that CONSTANCE VIOLET WHITTAKER
has filed Petition for Divorce numbered
93 of 1958 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 18th day of June
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from CURTISS, DEZAR-
NAULDS & BUTTFIELD, Solicitors, Oul-
wulla Chambers, 07 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
s
dutuoeK coMpennoN
FAT
©
»y
O
&
H
x
°5
iJ
f
■
&
%
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
K8.135.1S
SUNDRY
SHOWS
THE SHOW
N. S. Wales Royal Agricultural
is the Show, quite above com-
parison with any other in Aus-
tralia for age (132 years), size (it
covers 71£ acres, runs to more
more 3000 competitions, offers
prizemoney of over £30,000), and
number of customers (over a
million are expected to see it this
year). Visitors from New
Zealand —and there are many of
them —may speak of it as the
Sydney Show, but nobody round
about its address would dream
of giving it a qualifying adjective.
This year sees the shield for the
best agricultural display snatched
from fairly-regular winning
Western District by Southern
District (“well up on wheat”).
The Westerners have an engag-
ing design of Australia and Eng-
land lying in an ocean of grey
grain across which tiny ships
carry wool, etc., one way and
cars, etc., the other. Moreton
and Downs excel even that with
the crest of Australia made of
peanuts. Northern and Queens-
land Districts put up a fine
display considering the floods
and the like that have struck
them.
Industries seem to have
receded from the “Hall of Indus-
tries,” leaving it, except for one
sewing-machine exhibit, the
home of the edible product,
mostly of the type most frowned
on by dietitians. Children love
this hall and the sample-bags,
which used to be given away free
but now cost at least Is. 6d. and
mostly 3s. It is chiefly in the
Hordern Pavilion that parents
indulge in wish-fulfilment dreams
among the gleaming displays
of radiograms, refrigerators,
washing-machines—“yours for
£10” (deposit, that is; the other
£l5O or so later).
There are many cars on dis-
play. Business is good in these
regions apparently. The exhibit
of one leading retailer showed
only three sedans; one a 1954
American model of dashing
design in buttercup, white and
aqua, not for sale; the second
another American model, less
orchidaceous, but decidedly
pleasant (orders may be placed
for this one, but no definite
delivery-date could be given—
“this year, next year, sometime
perhaps”); the third an Aus-
tralian-made car for which the
customer must wait five or six
months.
The P.M.G., celebrating 100
years of telegraphy, shows how
an automatic telephone-exchange
works, how pictures are sent by
wire, machines to teach yourself
Morse, and teleprinting machines
to work yourself.
There is a fascinating model
of the Snowy River Project on a
scale of one-inch to 25ft.,
showing the Guthega Dam and
the water-pipes running through
tunnels and over the terrain.
Crowds watch the working of
a vending-machine which is tape-
controlled, machines for sorting
money, machines for packaging
cigarettes, and they stand three-
deep in open-mouthed amaze-
ment at the sight of A.B.C.
announcers at work behind a
glass frame. There is a delightful
exhibition of live bees being
handled by beekeepers within a
wire cage, a scientific display by
the Police Department, pictures
about education, the wine
industry and “various ways to
serve cooked tongue.”
The best exhibition for the
mechanically-minded is that
arranged by the Forces, though
the area in which it is shown is
far too small. Among other
things it shows a Rolls-Royce
aero engine and a radial engine
in section, a torpedo and metal-
cutting under water with an oxy-
acetelyne torch.
In the Meat Hall are shown the
fat lambs which were judged
prizewinners before the Show
started so that they could be
killed and dressed for display.
Also demonstrated are many
fancy ways of decorating meats,
including a ham with a hunting-
scene on it, magnificent crowns
of mutton and a haggis tied with
tartan. Livestock would no
doubt sigh and say to themselves
“We know what we are but we
know not what we may become.”
The sideshows are as noisy
and colorful as ever, but there
are no bearded-ladies, living-
skeletons or “men whose heads
do grow beneath their arms.”
“Freaks are frowned upon,”
quite rightly, but there is a
corroboree, a ghost-train, some
pigmies and a wall-of-death.
They all add to the atmosphere
of the Show, along with the
hideous laughing clowns, the
fairy-floss, the plaster spaniels
and the kewpies-on-a-stick that
have been features of the Show
from time immemorial.
Artbursts
Dunlop Entries
It never seems quite proper to -
this commentator to be asked to
inspect, and presumably criticise,
the entries for the Dunlop prize
before the judges have made their
decision. There is the awful
possibility —for one likes to think
one is read: why else write
criticism? —of influencing the
judges ; who should really be left
alone, in profound and por-
tentous silence, to do their best
or worst.
But the N. S. Wales entries
are on show at Anthony
Horderns’ and, having been
invited to be improper, the only
polite thing to do, as always, is
to accept. And that being so,
let it be said here with all the
impropriety possible that if the
judges find a better thing than
Howard Ashton’s “Narrow
Neck, Katoomba,” then entries
from other States will have to be
very good indeed.
One has seen many Howard
Ashton landscapes of the Blue
Mountains over the years; one
has admired, with reservations
about their implacability, many
of his landscapes on the grand-
scale which so few other painters
have the courage or the ability to
attempt —except some of the
lightweight contemporaries who
can slash-in six square feet of
canvas in an afternoon. This
time Howard Ashton has
excelled himself; it is a Blue
Mountains landscape, it is very
large, and it is the best thing in
both these categories he has
exhibited for years.
There are no easy, romantic,
Blue Mountains blues for Mr.
Ashton; it isn’t the tourist’s
Katoomba that he paints. But
it is undeniably a Nature-lover’s
and an artist’s. The picture, an
extraordinary composition in its
way, is a great slab of grey cliff,
the weatherworn mountain sand-
stone showing the reddish pock-
marks of erosion, while wheeling
away along the ridge-top is the
rough, stunted scrub Mr. Ashton
always paints so well. Not,
perhaps, a lovable picture; but
massive.
For the rest, continuing the
impropriety, one might draw the
attention of the judges, with less
emphasis, to a strongly-painted
oil by Jean Isherwood, “Canvas
Town”; to a lavish but some-
what smeary slather of green and
blue in Florence Broadhurst’s
“Cabbage Palms” and to a water-
color of Wolloomooloo by
Lionel Taprell which would be
very attractive if it weren’t just
a little too fuzzy.
There are a few other pleasant-
enough little watercolors, but the
general standard, through which
Mr. Ashton shoulders as power-
fully as a bull in a china-shop,
is exceedingly flimsy.
Stage and Music
Glenda Raymond*
At her Sydney recital the Mel-
bourne coloratura soprano
tendered convincing evidence
that her art has matched her
voice in steady improvement.
The flexibility of her voice is
nearing its peak. Even when
singing at high speed or in leap-
ing an octave in the extreme
head-register Miss Raymond is
invariably on tonal dead-centre
(a much rarer feat among
coloraturas than is generally sup-
posed). Her singing, too, is
seemingly effortless and her
interpretations intelligent; she
only needs a wider emotional
range, for tragedy particularly,
to take her to the top.
Two very fine, but little-heard,
songs by Mozart opened the pro-
ceedings: “Vado, ma dove?”
and “No, no, che non sei
capace.” In this latter song the
human voice is pushed to the
very limits of gamut and endur-
ance ; Miss Raymond sang it
exquisitely.
“O ravishing delight,” from
Arne’s “Judgment of Paris,” and
Purcell’s “The Blessed Virgin’s
Expostulation,” two beautiful
examples of early-English com-
position, had in the one a fair
measure of ecstasy, in the other
rather less of the required depth
of feeling.
A group of Schubert lieder
included one of the world’s great
songs, “Gretchen am Spinnrade,”
in the marvellous accompaniment
to which Henri Penn captured
beautifully the whirring of the
spinning-wheel.
There were also some French
songs of worth: Gretry’s “Air de
Zbmire et Azor,” Saint-Saens’s
“Le Bonheur est chose Idgbre,”
and an excellent example of
contemporary song-writing in
Szulc’s “Clair de Lune.” “I’m
Fair Titania,” from Thomas’s
“Mignon,” rounded-off this
group.
Miss Raymond wove her voice
with facility and lovely tone
through the intricacies of the
extended “mad scene” from
“Lucia di Lamraermoor,” with
its wealth of filigree work by the
obbligato flute, caressingly played
by Neville Amadio.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦>
Borovansky in Melbourne
Although it did not seem to
have much to do with Voltaire’s
gay, grim and mocking satire,
“Candide” (choreography by
Kiril Vassilkovsky and music by
Rossini) was a lovely addition to
the ballet procession at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne.
It gave Vassilie Trunoff, as
the youthful Candide, scope for
some delightful miming, and
Peggy Sager, as the lovelorn
Cunegonde, opportunity for an
exquisite performance.
More graceful dancing than
Miss Sager’s and more rapt
attention to her requirements on
the part of Trunoff could not be
imagined.
Trunoff did even better in
“Scheherazade.” As Zobeide’s
favorite slave, let into the harem
in the absence of her lord and
master, he performed staggering
feats of levitation, his final leap
across the stage being almost too
fast for the scimitar of the
aggrieved husband.
Anna Mariya made a volup-
tuous Zobeide, and the first
wives, second wives, youths,
slaves and eunuchs provided
plenty of fuel for Shah Rier’s
homicidal fury,
❖ ❖
Repertory
A new company is to start at
St. James Hall in Phillip-street,
Sydney, where, until the end of
last year, the Mercury Theatre
operated. It is under the direc-
tion of William Orr, the alert
Scotsman who was responsible
for the successful reviews the
Metropolitan staged in 1952 and
1953. The Phillip-street com-
pany opens on May 7 with a
revue, “Top of the Bill,” which
is to be followed by “Hamlet.”
The Genesians have begun a
season of T. S. Eliot’s “Murder
in the Cathedral,” the produc-
tion which won for them the
Commonwealth Drama Prize, at
their new city theatre, 420 Kent-
street.
“The Alchemist,” produced
by the W.E.A. players in their
little theatre at the top of the
W.E.A. building in Phillip-street,
is notable for a polished and
knowledgeable performance in
the main role by Paul Herlinger,
who is also producer. He is
adequately supported in most of
the minor parts. It is a pleasure
to hear, for instance, Maurice
Wirth as Ananias speak such
lines as “You look like Antichrist
in that lewd hat.” The pace is
lively, the mood rumbustious,
but there is too much shouting
for such a small room. Sir
Laurence Olivier will probably
have to answer on the Day of
Judgment for that habit of finish-
ing a line with the resonant shout
with which he seems to have
infected so many of Sydney’s
amateur actors.
Talkies
“The Virtuous Is ad ore”
This film version, at Melbourne
Savoy, of the delightful Mau-
passant story out of which
Benjamin Britten made his opera
—lately staged in Melbourne —
has all the pungency, wit and
humor the opera lacked, and is
also excellent entertainment.
The village- characters,
farcically done in the English
version, are plausibly managed
by the French actors, and are
wildly funny.
The funniest incident is where
Isadore., having received the
crown of virtue, goes off to
commit suicide in a mood of
alcoholic remorse, is picked-up
by the beautiful countess and
spirited to Paris, where most of
his virtues turn out to be only
inhibitions.
❖ ❖
“Flight Nurse”
Wooden dialogue, old situa-
tions and a lot of sentimentalism
are combined in this film about
flying U.S. Army nurses in Korea
and the tepid love-affair of one
of them (Joan Leslie). The
“ditching” of an ambulance-
plane provides the one worth-
while sequence. At Sydney Park.


fleitto the. Qmmtb ?
mu--
m
■53
Hi
* Witte al
; dftfcS
,
..
. •’’' ... x •
'
m&
r>¥
. : s.-"--
' ~,,,-_ ,;. , '
m
mvf
mm
M
mm
y m
wm
mm
m
M
M&WS&I
'■ ■■ ;'.
Irppp
m
&M
mm
iK-.f
SSKi
*5
ss>xft
. \-m- 7'.
mmmm
mm
5-1*.,*1 ~ >r*-mrn-mmm m.m ,
ft* ;<»
Here it Is, the Mobiico Self Drive, built along the lines of an aircraft undercarriage. Wind the wheel
down and it automatically drives; wind it up and it stops and tucks up neatly under the chassis leaving
you with a perfectly balanced free-wheeling machine for the actual jobs of felling, cross-cutting and
ripping. You can buy it fitted to a Mobiico "Model B" or "Bush King", or you can have it fitted to your
own Mobilcd machine.
BUY IT ON A .
When you get a self-driven Mobilco your machine will go’
anywhere ... it will never slip, bog or fail to take you over
any hill. If you find the going a bit tough just a light down-
ward pressure on the handles gets your Mobilco surging
forward. You simply can't stop it. Wherever you can walk
your Mobilco will drive.
IDEAL FOR THE MOBILCO FENCING
OUTFIT. ..
The Mobilco Fencing Outfit, consisting of circular saw, post
hole digger and post borer, becomes a "double earner" with
this new self drive. Look at the time you will save. Whether
it's sandy, boggy or hilly, there's no time lost with a Mobilco.
It goes anywhere and everywhere just as you want it.
if you own a Mobilco now and find that where you
are working it is a bit hard to push your machine
around, please fill in the coupon and let us send you
all the details about the new Mobilco Drive. If, on the
other hand, you don't already own a mobile saw and
are thinking of getting one, make sure that you find
out about the Mobilco with the only positive action,
variable traction drive. You must not take the risk of
not knowing all about Mobilco, Australia's own shaft
driven machine with the stop-at-nothing Self Drive.
PATENT PENDING
* The Self Drive has the Mobilco six months guarantee, and
machines fitted with it can be bought on a convenient time
payment plan.
nr IT TO YOUR ..
The Mobilco Self Drive is supplied ready to fit to any Mobile©
"Model B" or "Bush King" Saw. Due to its light weight and
perfect balance you will not know it is there when felling
and cross-cutting, but once you wind it down and the wheel
is driving there's nothing to do but merely guide the machine
to the next job.
%
m
&
m
&
ns
%
&
rr
POST NOW FOR DETAILS
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS; MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH - AGENTS: ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUST.
H I would like complete details of the H
H Mobilco Self Drive to be posted at once. =
H Name ||
H Address M


BUSINESS BELONG ME
by Garnsey Potts'
The names of Targo and
Usani, a Mary, were under-
lined in red.
“How come? I asked,
“They went bush about six
weeks ago,” replied John Still.
“There is talk that the Mary isn’t
Targo’s wife, that they cleared
out from Malaita together. They
were here only one day when
they were posted missing. I’ve
got a suspicion that her husband
is working here, but I’m not
certain. Anyhow, good riddance
to them. Marys are a menace
around a plantation.”
With that I heartily agreed.
John and I were checking over
the labor-register of Rendova
plantation. As we ran down
the list containing the names of
more than eighty native laborers
John gave; me a thumbnail sketch
of each of the more important
ones.
“Jack boss-boy real old-
timer —cunning as a fox but can
handle the gangs—wanted to be-
come a Seventh Day Adventist
because their Sabbath is on a
Saturday and Jack figured he
would get two Sundays each
week. Ontopikana No. 1
copra-boy great lad cut
co'pra faster than any boy I’ve
ever had. Johnny—launch-boy
—good kid but don’t leave him
alone with the launch —he’ll have
the engine in pieces before you
can blink an eye. Bobby and
Charlie—the two cook-boys—
don’t bother about them —my
wife trained them and they’re
damn’ good cooks. Hiwari —
real lead-swinger—keep an eye
on that bird.”
And so the analysis went on.
Running through the labor-
register was the final phase of a
stocktaking that had begun the
previous day and included a
check of tools, equipment and
plant.
Now the company’s little inter-
island steamer, Kobiloko, lay at
the wharf waiting to take John
Still and his wife to Tulagi,
administrative capital of the
Solomon Islands. There they
would tranship to the Mendini
for Sydney and six-months long-
service leave.
My job was to manage the
plantation during John’s absence.
The prospect was not an unhappy
one,
13 END OVA was listed as the
star plantation of the com-
pany’s many holdings. Set on
the shores of a small land-locked
harbor the bungalow was cool
and well furnished. The plan-
tation itself stretched along the
coastline to a depth of about a
mile and presented easy working-
conditions, The bags of “green”
copra were taken to the beach in
bullock-carts, and then trans-
ported to the drying-mill in
whale-boats towed by a sturdy
forty-foot launch.
Although Rendova’s eight-
hundred acres of coconuts did
not warrant a white overseer in
addition to a manager, I was not
depressed by the threat of lone-
liness. I was used to it. I had
managed one-man plantations
before. So I was assailed by no
pangs of self-pity as I waved
cheerio to John and his wife.
Thoughts of their departure
were soon brushed aside by the
necessity of facing up to a
problem which I knew was
inevitable, but did not know
when or in what form it would
come.
The Solomon Islanders are a
simple people with a juvenile
outlook on life. Like children
at school who try a prank on
a new teacher to find out what
his reaction will be, the boys on
a plantation invariably put over
some stunt on a new manager.
When and how the stunt would
be tried I had no means of know-
ing. But tried it would be.
That was certain.
The following morning at sun-
up I went down to the hospital
hut. Caring for sick and injured
boys is only one, but an
important one, of the many roles
a plantation-manager has to play.
At the hospital was the usual
assembly of tropical ulcers and
malaria cases. They were soon
disposed of. As I was about to
close the hospital door a boy
raced up calling “Something
killem me along neck,”
There were indications of a
wasp-sting on the back of his
neck. I took down a Winchester
labelled Ammon. Fort, poured
some of the strong ammonia on
to pad of lint and strapped it
over the affected area. The boy
must have inhaled some of the
fumes, for he gasped several times
and spluttered, “My word,
master, he strong feller too
much.”
From the hospital I went to
inspect the boys’ sleeping huts.
Start-work “bello” had gone
half an hour since, and I wanted
to make sure that everybody was
out on the job. The huts were
built in a line. Each measured
eight feet by ten feet, had
galvanised-iron roof and walls,
a door and window and a tier
of three bunks built along two
opposing walls.
Approaching the third hut I
heard talking and bursts of
laughter. I pushed open the
door. On the floor squatted
seven boys. Some were chewing
betel-nut. Some were smoking
clay-pipes. All were looking
very pleased with themselves.
“Why you feller no work?” I
demanded.
“Sun he too hot along
paddock.”
The cheeky reply was delivered
by Hiwari, the boy John Still
had advised me to keep an eye
on.
C'O this was it. This was the
try-on, and it wasn’t funny.
In the confined space of the hut
it would be crazy to attempt any
strong-arm tactics. Any aggres-
sive move on my part would
result in a concerted rush by the
boys and I would finish up on
the floor. I had seen one white
man who had been done over by
a bunch of boys, and I wasn’t
at all keen to be the second. The
boys were tough and the
Marquess of Queensberry rules
didn’t mean a thing to them.
But apart from the physical
discomfort of a bashing there
was the much more serious
aspect of prestige. Once a white
man has been beaten up there
is only one course left for him—
to buy a steamer ticket back to
the mainland. He is finished as
far as the Solomons are con-
cerned. Bush-wireless quickly
spreads the news of his loss of
face and wherever he may go he
will come up against a wall of
defiance.
I had to clear this bunch of
rebels out of the hut. But how?
Then I remembered the boy
gasping as I applied the pad of
strong ammonia to his neck. I
raced back to the hospital, filled
the tank of a fly-spray with
Ammon. Fort, and returned to
the hut.
This time I kicked open the
door and shouted, “Get to
work!” At the same time I
pumped madly with the fly-spray.
Within a matter of seconds the
still air inside the hut was
charged with strong ammonia-
fumes. The effect on the boys
was devastating. For a moment
they stared wild-eyed. Then,
coughing, gasping and splutter-
ing, they charged the door. Down
I went in the face of their mad
rush and more than one horny-
soled foot left its mark on my
face. But none stayed to argue
or to do any deliberate harm.
They hot-footed it for the plan-
tation.
When I rode out later to see
the gangs at work there was an
air of concentrated industry that
I am sure Rendova had seldom,
if ever, witnessed.
Jack, the boss-boy, broached
the subject that evening.
“Some boy been makem
trouble along morning time?” he
queried.
“No trouble,” I replied as
casually as I could.
“But some boy no work,” per-
sisted Jack.
“Altogether boy work now,” I
said.
“Yes, master. Altogether boy
work good fellow now. No more
play-about.”
There was a wealth of respect
in the way Jack said it.
Undoubtedly because of the
ammonia incident, life at
Rendova ran a very placid
course during the following
month.
C'EVERAL times I rode out
into the plantation for the
sole purpose of watching Onto-
pikana, No. 1 copra-boy, at
work.
Here was action to which that
often-abused expression “poetry
of motion” could be applied in
all truth. As a physical speci-
men he would have warmed the
heart of any sculptor. Wielding
a three-quarter axe one-handed
he would swing at the heap of
coconuts piled before him. Each
flashing stroke cleaved through
the tough outer husk and the
"He doesn't come out very often — he's shy."
hard inner shell to reveal the
white layer of copra within.
When all the nuts were halved
he would bring his stubby vee-
pointed knife into action, goug-
ing out the copra and tossing it
into a cornsack beside him.
Three sacks of copra was a
cutter’s daily quota and invari-
ably Ontopikana was first to
finish.
On a Thursday the boss-boy
told me that the missing couple,
Targo and Usani, had returned
the previous evening.
“He no catchem kai-kai along
bush. He hungry too much,”
was Jack’s explanation for their
return. I told Jack to issue them
with rations and to set the boy
to work.
On Sunday morning I was
lying in a hammock slung on the
veranda of the bungalow reading
a two-month-old Sydney news-
paper when I heard a boy
calling “Master . . . master!”
There was urgency in the
voice, so I swung out of the
hammock. At the bottom of the
steps stood Johnny, the launch-
boy. He was quivering with
excitement, and from the way
he was panting it was evident
he had run some distance.
“What name?” I asked.
“This Mary, Usani, die
finish,” stammered Johnny.
“Which way Usani die
finish?”
“Ontopikana hitem along
ackis [axe],” Johnny replied.
■CURTHER questioning re-
vealed that the body of Usani
was lying near the back boun-
dary-fence.
Slipping a .32 automatic into
my pocket, I set out with Johnny
through the plantation. A
crowd of boys had gathered at
the scene of the tragedy, the
body of the unfortunate native
woman the focal-point of their
silent interest. They drew back
as I approached.
No point in feeling for a fleet-
ing pulse. Death must have
come swiftly. I had a sudden
sickening spasm as I looked
down at the ghastly mutilation
caused by Ontopikana’s flashing
axe. I instructed Jack to attend
to the burial and told Johnny
to get the launch ready “quick
time” for a run to Gizo, where
Captain Fraser, the nearest Dis-
trict-Officer, had his head-
quarters.
Ontopikana, the boys said,
had gone bush. Before leaving
for Gizo I advised Jack to get
the boys out scouting for signs
of Ontopikana’s tracks, and
offered a reward of tobacco to
anyone who should bring defi-
nite information of his move-
ments.
At Gizo we learnt that Cap-
tain Fraser was away on patrol
and was not expected back for
a fortnight. The news caused
no concern. Sergeant Nassai
had been left in charge of the
station, and I knew of no one,
European or native, who was
better equipped to track-down
and arrest Ontopikana.
Sergeant Nassai was a Malaita
boy who had been educated at
a mission school in New Zea-
land. His mastery of the Eng-
lish language was nothing short
of startling, more particularly to
those who were unaware of his
background. Many a tourist had
subsided into embarrassed
silence after Nassai had replied
in precise English to a’ - ' query
framed in crude pidgin.
That Nassai had the three
essentials of courage, tenacity
and initiative was evident from
the high degree of confidence
which Captain Fraser placed in
him. Some of Nassai’s cases,
for sheer doggedness, might well
have been culled from the
records of Canada’s “Mounties.”
On one occasion Captain Fraser
sent Nassai to the Faisi district
to investigate a reported mur-
der. For five months there was
no word from Nassai, no report
of his investigations. Then one
day he returned to Gizo with
two handcuffed prisoners and
an arrow-wound in his left
shoulder.
As the launch chugged along
on the return journey to Ren-
dova with Sergeant Nassai and
a police-boy on board I was
confident that Ontopikana’s days
were numbered.
TACK met us with a report
** that Ontopikana had been
seen in the vicinity of a native
village six miles down the coast,
and that a canoe was missing
from the village.
“He is probably making across
Rendova Passage for the
Rubiana Lagoon,” was Nassai’s
summing-up. “There are several
uninhabited islands in the
lagoon, and I think we will find
him on one of them.”
That was good enough for
me. We set out for Rubiana
Lagoon.
Inside the lagoon we saw a
canoe drawn-up on the beach
of a small island. We nosed the
launch in as close as its draught
would permit and dropped
anchor. Leaving Johnny on
board, Nassai, the police-boy
and I rowed ashore in the
dinghy. From the beached
canoe footprints led inland.
Nassai Was confident they were
Ontopikana’s.
The island was almost circu-
lar, and of not more than three
acres. Fringing the beach was
a line of coconut palms. Be-
hind was scrub.
Nassai explained his plan.
The police-boy would work in
towards the centre of the island
from a point on the beach about
fifty yards to the left. I would
do likewise from a similar dis-
tance to the right. Nassai would
follow the footprints leading
from the canoe. Nassai and
the police-boy had service-
rifles. I had my .32 automatic.
A shout was to be the signal
that Ontopikana had been
sighted.
The scrub was not dense. I
pushed my way through
cautiously, pausing often to peer
ahead and around and to listen.
No sound broke the stillness.
With little warning the scrub
thinned-out into a small clear-
ing. And there, startlingly close,
stood Ontopikana. He was
poised, one foot forward, like a
boxer. In his hands he held a
bow, string taut, arrow held
ready to fire. He remained
statuesque, peering at a point to
my left. A quick glance in that
direction revealed Ontopikana’s
target. It was Nassai. He was
standing facing Ontopikana. His
rifle was carried loosely across
his body.
TN quiet, conversational pidgin
English, Nassai spoke to
Ontopikana.
“More better you put every-
thing along ground. You no
play about.”
Watchful, unresponsive, On-
topikana continued to stare at
Nassai.
Again Nassai spoke, softly,
persuasively.
“I think more better you put
everything along ground. Sup-
pose you don’t ...” There
was a pause. Then he barked
“I shoot.”
On the word “shoot” Nassai
threw his rifle to his shoulder
with a slap that resounded
through the clearing.
Slowly the tension in Ontopi-
kana’s arms relaxed. Finally
the bow and arrow dropped to
the ground.
Nassai undipped a pair of
handcuffs from his belt and
snapped them over Ontopikana’s
submissive wrists.
In Indian-file, Ontopikana
leading, we returned to the
beach and the launch. Ontopi-
kana remained silent throughout
the ten-hour run to Gizo, and
even the slam of the cell-door
behind him at journey’s end
(Continued on next page)


MY DAD'S A
MAN S MAN
mm
Does your child have a blind
faith in YOU?
Margaret Turner believes her father
is the “daddy of them all”.
With good reasons, too! Listen to this
gripping radio drama as the dramatic
life story unfolds around . . .
“JOHN TURNER'S
FAMILY”
PRESENTED BY WRIGLEY’S
8.30 p.m. FRIDAYS
2GB - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2CA 2WL 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
d —MACQUARIE I *
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JOYCE DAYIS late of Woollahra.—
TAKE NOTICE that JOSEPH EDMOND
DAVIS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 192 of 1954 on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 21st
day of June 1954 and obtain a copy of
the Petition free of charge from JOHN
D. NORTON. Solicitor, 393 George
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO CLARENCE GEORGE SUITER late
of Paddington.—TAKE NOTICE that
PEGGY GEORGINA SUITER has filed
Petition for Divorce No. 4572 of 1953
on the grounds of desertion for 3 years
and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 11th day of June 1954
and obtain a copy of the petition free of
charge from JOHN D. NORTON, Solici-
tor. 393 George Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Public Notice
L EDGAR KOPPEL, of Estonian
nationality, born at Tallinn, Estonia,
resident 28 years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 59 Regent Street, Redfern, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Canyon detect
a c classic’?
One of life’s little joys lies la
making: your own discoveries.
Nosing out a good thing.
Picking a ‘surprise’ winner.
Quietly finding the best. Many,
a man has been delighted to
come across Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky which has that true
classic flavour that only the
rare, the very best, whiskies
can achieve. All the natural
advantages of soft Highland
air, peat and water, together
with the best of barleys are
made the most of by slow
maturing and careful blending.
Good whisky takes time.
You have only to open a bottle
Of Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky to
appreciate its classic bouquet
and flavour.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
cSct,
DISTILLERS PERTH SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
*«j&
I m\
1
I? n
m r rJ
/A
BELtS
WI
0
100% SCOTCH WH'S*'!]
distilled and blende"
■.IN SCOTLAND /)
D| STILLERSee«th SCO]
ESTABLISHED
j
■y?A\
failed to break* his air of dis-
interest.
A MONTH later Captain
Fraser, in his capacity as a
magistrate, held court at Gizo.
There were no wigs and gowns,
none of the customary law-court
pomp and majesty. In an infor-
mal atmosphere the native wit-
nesses gave their evidence simply
and at their ease.
Targo was principal witness.
He seemed to gain confidence
from the sight of Ontopikana
standing closely-guarded by
two armed police-boys. He told
of a small village on the island
of Malaita where he and Ontopi-
kana and Usani grew up to-
gether. Ontopikana and Usani
had married. Then Ontopikana
went away on a recruiting-
schooner to work on a planta-
tion. Ontopikana told Usani he
would come back in two years
with plenty of presents, beads,
calico, tobacco, tinned meat,
knives and axes.
Targo was quite frank in his
admission that he wanted Usani.
Ontopikana’s absence gave him
the opportunity to persuade
Usani to go with him and work
on a plantation where she would
have all the things Ontopikana
had promised her without wait-
ing two years for them. Targo
told the labor-recruiter that
Usani was his wife. They were
sent to Rendova.
When they arrived they
learned that Ontopikana was
working there. They were
frightened, so they went bush.
Hunger forced them to return
to Rendova. Ontopikana saw
them, but acted as if he didn’t
know them.
On the Sunday nlorning,
Targo said, he and Usani were
strolling through the plantation
when suddenly Ontopikana
rushed out from the scrub near
the boundary-fence. He was
carrying an axe. He sang out
“Me killem you feller.” Targo
and Usani ran. Ontopikana
chased them. “Me run like
hell,” said Targo, “but this
Usani can’t run like hell. On-
topikana hitem along ackis.
That’s all.”
Other boys confirmed the de-
tails. There was no question as
to the verdict.
Before pronouncing a sen-
tence of five years’ imprisonment
with hard labor Captain Fraser
asked Ontopikana if he had any-
thing to say.
“He business belong me,” was
Ontopikana’s reply.
'THERE was no arrogance in
-®- attitude, no insolence in the
way he spoke. It was a plain
statement of fact, delivered with
a conviction and sincerity that
anticipated no contradiction.
None came.
For the court knew that On-
topikana was a Malaita boy,
that there was no provision for
divorce in the social structure
of that island, that custom and
tribal law demanded that a hus-
band shaU kill an unfaithful
wife. Ontopikana’s wife, Usani,
had been unfaithful. Ontopi-
kana had killed her.
It was just as simple as that.
White-man’s law might term his
action murder, manslaughter,
justifiable homicide or anything
it cared to, but to Ontopikana
it was, and always would be,
“business belong me.”
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words and music of musical mono-
logue “The Happiest Corpse in the
Morgue.”—5766.
To buy, large tropical sea-shell
suitable for use as a bird-bath in a
Wollongong (N.S.W.) garden. —5765.
To buy copy of book containing
all the Scottish tartafls. —5764.
Words of poem “Holy Dan.” —5763.
Words of recitation “Sale of the
Old Piano.” —5761.
To buy copy of Here’s Luck, by
L. W. Lower. —5762.
Words of poem “How M’Dougal
Topped the Score,” by Thos. E.
Spencer.—5758.
St. Aloysius’ College, Milson’s
Point (N.S.W.), is collecting for an
Honor Roll names of Old Boys who
served in World War I or II. Names
are missing, especially from the
1914-18 group. Anyone knowing of
an Old Boy who served in either war
please advise the College immediately.
To get in touch with collectors of
cigarette-cards anywhere in the world.
—5757.
Elderly man wants furnished room,
cooking conveniences, or board near
country.—5752.
To buy White Shadows in the South
Seas, by F. O’Brien. —5760.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of or what was
“Glenoogie”?—5759.
Information Sought
Some aboriginal names suitable for
i home in the city?
There are few if any aboriginal
words relating to town or city. This
selection, however, may help—Akora,
Apmara, Arura, Boimba, Bulgunna,
Bulumba, Gunya, Illalangi, Immarna,
Kirala, Noora, Wybara, hut or camp;
Alawoona, place of hot winds;
Allambi, Anembo, quiet place; Alla-
wah, to camp here; Amanga, here;
Attunga, high place; Bangalow, hill;
Baroona, place far away; Bundaleer,
stony place; Callemondah, plenty of
hills; Canberra, Gumbooya, meeting-
place; Cooinda, Karingal, happy
camp or place; Dulkara, rainbow;
Elouera, pleasant place; Kalimna,
beautiful; Kanyanya, gathering of
people; Manatunga, morning; Mer-
cowie, crystal brook; Myuna, clear
water; Poonga, shade hut; Tenalga,
laugh; Ulya, shady spot; Warunda,
corroboree; Weeroona, resting-place;
Werleappa, bird’s nest; Werlingga, at
or in a camp; Yarrawonda, walk.
* * * *
Dates on which Easter has fallen
since 1890 ?
These are the dates of Easter Day
(Sunday)—lß9o, April 6; 1891, March
29; 1892, Apl. 17; 1893, Apl. 2;
1894, Mar. 25; 1895, Apl. 14; 1896,
Apl. 5; 1897, Apl. 18; 1898, Apl. 10;
1899, Apl. 2; 1900, Apl. 15; 1901,
Apl. 7; 1902, Mar. 30; 1903, Apl. 12;
1904, Apl. 3; 1905, Apl. 23; 1906,
Apl. 15; 1907, Mar. 31; 1908, Apl.
19; 1909, Apl. 11; 1910, Mar. 27;
1911, Apl. 16; 1912, Apl. 7; 1913,
Mar. 23; 1914, Apl. 12; 1915, Apl.
4; 1916, Apl. 23; 1917, Apl. 8; 1918,
Mar. 31; 1919, Apl. 20; 1920, Apl. 4;
1921, Mar. 27; 1922, Apl. 16; 1923,
Apl. 1; 1924, Apl. 20; 1925, Apl.
12; 1926, Apl. 4; 1927, Apl. 17;
1928, Apl. 8; 1929, Mar. 31; 1930,
Apl. 20; 1931, Apl. 5 ; 1932, Mar. 27;
1933, Apl. 16; 1934, Apl. 1; 1935,
Apl. 21; 1936, Apl. 12; 1937, Mar.
28; 1938, Apl. 17; 1939, Apl. 9;
1940, Mar. 24; 1941, Apl. 13; 1942,
Apl. 5; 1943, Apl. 25; 1944, Apl. 9;
1945, Apl. 1; 1946, Apl. 21; 1947,
Apl. 6; 1948, Mar. 28; 1949, Apl.
17; 1950, Apl. 9; 1951, Mar. 25;
1952, Apl. 13; 1953, Apl. 5; 1954,
Apl. 18.
* * * *
What was the original Kit-cat Club
of which Sir Robert Walpole was a
member ?
It was composed of wits, painters,
politicians and writers, usually of
Whig sympathies, and was founded
in London in 1703. Its name was
derived from that of Christopher Cat,
the keeper of a piehouse near Temple
Bar where the club first met. Later
it moved to a specially-built room at
Barn Elms. There were approxi-
mately 40 members, including Marl-
borough, Steele and Addison. The
club was dissolved about 1720. Sir
Godfrey Kneller painted portraits of
many of the members—in a uniform
size (36in. by 28in.) to suit the Barn
Elms rooms. This is now known as
the kit-cat size.
* * * *
(7) Is the title “Lord” applied to
all noblemen ? (2) What is the order
of rank of the British peerage ?
According to Whitaker’s Peerage,
the title “Lord” is in the first place
the regular conventional designation
of a Baron, and frequently in the
older titles it is even found substituted
in the patent or writ, as is especially
noticeable in the Scottish Peerage.
Secondly, it is used in common par-
lance as a general term for any noble-
man, from a Baron up to a Marquess.
Thirdly, in courtesy-titles it is cor-
rectly used in the case of the eldest
sons of such of the higher Peers as
hold subordinate titles as Barons,
and conventionally again when the
subordinate title is higher than that
of Baron. Fourthly, it is prefixed to a
Christian-name to designate a younger
son of a Duke or Marquess. Fifthly,
it is used, by right or by courtesy, to
Bishops. Sixthly, it is applied, as a
judicial title, to a Scottish Lord of
Session. (2) Duke, Marquess, Earl,
Viscount, Baron.
* v * *
What was the famous case of Adolf
Beck in England last century about ?
In Dec., 1895, one Adolf Beck was
accused by a German music-teacher
named Ottilie Meissonnier of stealing
two watches and some rings. Arrested,
he was accused by a number of
women (mostly of light character) of
having passed himself off as Lord
So-and-so, subsequently giving them
bogus cheques and stealing articles
of value. In all 22 women were
brought to see Beck, and 10 positively
identified him as the man who had
swindled them. His trial (beginning
Mar. 3, 1896) took place before the
passing of the Criminal Evidence Act
of 1898, and Beck was prevented
from entering the witness-box and
thus giving the women the opportunity
of hearing him speak. He was identi-
fied as a “John Smith” who had been
convicted of a similar offence in 1877,
even though there was proof that he
was in Peru in 1880 when “Smith”
was in jail in England. Despite other
doubtful points Beck was found
guilty and sentenced to seven years’
penal servitude. On his release in
1901 he set about proving his inno-
cence, apd all was going well when
the frauds began again in 1903, and
Beck, again identified by a victim,
was rearrested, tried and again found
guilty. Only a few days before he
was to come up for sentence, the
man who had actually been sentenced
in 1877 as “John Smith” was dis-
covered pawning rings. His where-
abouts in the intervening years were
never clearly determined, but his full
guilt was established, and he was sent
to penal servitude for five years. Beck
was pardoned and received £4OOO
compensation. Asa result of the
miscarriage of justice in his case the
Court of Criminal Appeal was set
up in 1907 to prevent such a recur-
rence.
Brief Answers
M.F.: Write the Taxpayers’ Assoc,
of Victoria, Collins House, 360
Collins-street, Melbourne J.E.M.:
Most processes of this kind are trade
formulas, and are not available.
Manufacturers state that this process
is quite beyond the scope of ttye
amateur, as it requires special gear,
special materials, and experienced
skill. Better to buy what you require,
than to attempt it X.X.: Regard-
ing the U.S. murderer Fernandez,
none of the records at the U.S. In-
formation Service (Sydney) has any
reference to the incident mentioned.
We suggest you approach the U.S.
Army Attache, 414 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, regarding the matter. He
might be able to tell you where the
information could be obtained....
F.A.; Books on the Arctic at the
N.S.W. Public Library include Beyond
Horizons, by Lincoln Ellsworth, the
U.S. Arctic explorer, Greenland Jour-
ney, by Else Wegener (the story of a
German expedition to Greenland in
1930-31), The Conquest of the Arctic,
by Louis Segal, The Conquest of the
North Pole, by J. Gordon Hayes (an
account of Arctic exploration in the
firs) 20-30 years of this century), and
The Search for the North-west Pas-
sage, by Nellis M. Crouse. You might
obtain some of these at secondhand-
booksellers J.C.: (1) Frederick
Temple was Archbishop of Canterbury
at the death of Queen Victoria (Jan.
22, 1901). He accepted the see in
1896 and died on Dec. 23, 1902, at
the age of 82. In 1902 he discharged
the important duties of his office
at the coronation of Edward VII, but
the strain at his age gravely impaired
his health, from which he never fully
recovered. (2) The funeral service for
Queen Victoria was conducted in St.
George’s Chapel by the Dean of St.
George’s, not by the Archbishop of
Canterbury. The Queen was, of course,
buried as a member of the Church of
England. (3) Get in touch with Army
Records, Victoria Barracks, St. Kilda-
road, Melbourne... .M.W.: There is
absolutely no foundation for such a
belief; there is no record of any-
one of that race in the family’s
ancestry R.8.C.: The Indepen-
dence Hall, in Philadelphia, was the
meeting-place (July 4, 1776) of the
American Congress which adopted the
historic Declaration of Independence.
... .R.J.R.: Get in touch with Frank
Hambridge Pty., Ltd., 22 Bridge-
street, or Jack Hilton (Metals) Pty.,
Ltd., 58 Pitt-street —both Sydney.


L>
A
rs
O'V
n,A Q
W
A W
V
nr
An
::\
s
A
C
c
-v
s
tt
?/v
r* ry/
0/
n>
A- r
O'rf
T
IJ ki
c
Ir *-<v'
O„0
V
so
i,
IV
?n
an
-a *??
U
V:;:A
m
>vf '
<v£=“
taws
'W
8*
•Sc
■T£f
VL
It
r>
fW
U
■‘■\i
/t-
-f
m
zr.\
'lh
\W
m
/■%
mm
rr
//
/fr-S/V
\v
7/.
m
\vy
/7 X
A<
072
rc
-?*
i
m
'hi 1
4
m
rm
//
n
\«*vA
3V
rs
i
/LL
r^\
/
S'
Fi
7r^
Nearly 140,000 new policies were effected with the
M.L.C. in 1953. The number of M.L.C. policies in
force now exceeds 1,500,000.
The 67th Annual Report shows new policy-
holders to be in good company.
67th Annual Report
PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS
AND DEPENDANTS
ali A
&
The M.L.C. paid
£1,748,162
In death benefits in 1953
Living policyholders received
£2,999,907
Total paid since
inception of Company
£79,558,899
INCOME 1953
£16,558,247
New
Business
Ordinary Branch:
£37,915,607
Indus tried Branch:
£11,436,411
Assurances in force
(with bonuses)
TOTAL
£349,101,847
111
Ml
I 11
ill
in
l
Assets
Protecting
Policyholders
Now Exceed
£100,000,000
The Strongest Life Assurance Offi
Directors and Trustees
The Hon. Sir HENRY E. MANNING, K.8.E., Q.C.. M.L.'C.,
Chairman.
The Hon. Sir HENRY Y. BRADDON, K.B.E. • A. G. COPELAND
• Sir ALEXANDER STEWART, K. 8., M.I.M.E. • J. H. ASHTON
• Sir LESLIE J. MORSHEAD, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.
• M. C. ALDER, A.I.A. • C. G. McDONALD, M. 8., CH.M.,
F.R.A.C.P. • HUBERT VAUGHAN, F.I.A. • W. J. V.
WINDEYER, C.8.E., D. 5.0., E.D., Q.C., Sydney • R. N. CAD-
WALLADER, Sydney ® F. E. TRIGG. Sydney • J. S. WILSON,
F.1.A., Melbourne • T. S. HART, Melbourne • L. L. K.IDGELL,
Melbourne.
ML37/FP
BE WELL ADVISED BY THE M.L.C. MAN
The
M.L.C.
(incorporated in N.S. W.)
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS’
Assurance Co. limited


First Instalment
Have Patience,
Delaney!
by
BANT
sINGER
1. Mitchell
“V now fly,” the voice
\ / says, “with a hombre
y that’s known as Lay
t Down Misere Mitchell,
on account of he never misses
a trick,”
It comes out of an overcoat
sitting by me in the tail-end of
the plane. I didn’t know there
was anything in the coat. All I
could see when I come up the
gangway was this overcoat in
the seat and a tweed cap on top
of it. That’s the way it was for
the take-off, and when the plane
levels-off and turns west there’s
this voice.
So I look and the overcoat’s
inhabited by a pale man with
a long nose and a blubbery
mouth and the kind of eyes goes
with them.
“Where’d you get. this hombre
stuff?” I says. “You never been
south of the Pecos in your
life.”
“What’s Pecos?”
“It’s a river, but you wouldn’t
know. You never been in no
hombre country; you never
been north of the Line.”
“1 have, too,” he says, in a
kind of reproach, “I been to
Colombo.”
The plane is level now and her
four engines pulling us into the
west. The hostess comes down
the aisle and I catch her eye
and she gives me a hostess-
smile, which don’t mean a thing,
and 1 catch her perfume as she
goes by.
The perfume sets my memory
going and I sit back. Because a
girl’s got a perfume there’s
always some other girl had it
and it sets you thinking about
the other girl. I’m thinking
about Moira and that perfume
like nasturtiums she had, warm
and with a tang in it, and I start
getting warm with thinking
about Moira.
But Lay Down Misere
Mitchell wants to talk.
“I have, too, been to
Colombo.”
“All right,” I says. “So you
been to Colombo and you never
miss a trick and somebody got
your dough. So what?”
“How’d you guess?” His long
nose points at me and I see his
eyes is a kind of slate color in
the cabin light.
“Guess what?”
“About my dough?”
“Look,” I says. “I been
around. You never see me be-
fore. So you open up about
hombres and lay-down miseres.
You think that up because you
want to make me notice you.
You want me to notice you be-
cause you got a ache. You got
a ache and you got to talk. So
you give me that hombre stuff.
Means you lost something.
Maybe a woman, maybe dough.
My guess is dough.”
He pulls the nose in among
the overcoat and pulls the tweed
cap down over the eyes and
hunkers down and gives me
away.
So he gives me away and that
suits me fine. Because I got my
ticket and £5 9s. Bd. and some
cigarettes and the clothes I’m
wearing and not much else. I
don’t know this Murrayford
where the plane will drop me
and I’m not sure why I’m going
there. All I know is the tele-
gram from Carson.
“Fly to Murrayford first
plane stop wait for me stop
Carson,” is what it says.
Carson is a trader. Used
cars, used trucks, smuggled
Swiss watches, real-estate, jewels,
one-armed bandits, vegetables,
road contracts, black beer —it’s
all the same to Carson. You got
something to sell and Carson
thinks he’s got someone to buy
he’s your man. Legitimate
mostly, but he’ll take a risk if
the dough is in it.
He’s got a big office in Mel-
bourne and hook-ups all over
the country and one of them
little castles up on Avalon
Beach. He knows people in
New York and ’Frisco and
All the characters in this
story are entirely fictitious
and no reference is intended
to any person alive or dead.
Birmingham (Eng.) and Kenya
and Malaya. Anybody Carson
don’t know isn’t worth knowing,
comes to that.
I did work for him before.
Different kinds of work, some
good, some not so good.
Muscle - work, sometimes. He
pays well. One job for Carson
took me three weeks and what
he paid gave me four months
on the Reef in midwinter at
fifty frogskins a month, with
that big hotel on Daydream full
of eager mopsies who’d saved
for two years to have a fort-
night there and had some of
me just to prove it.
So when this telegram comes
with Carson’s name on it and
me on the end of a run of outs
it’s a call to the colors —the
colors of frogskins.
Because if Carson wants me
urgent the job’s urgent and he
pays good for urgent jobs.
I’m sitting 'there with the
Skymaster bumping over the
mountains, thinking about Car-
son, and the hostess comes
down the aisle and gives me that
smile they got.
“You got any cold beer?” I
says.
“Certainly, sir.”
“Colder than your heart?”
She wants a couple of seconds
to work that out and when she
does and starts to smile the
overcoat gets a kind of spasm
and Lay Down Misere pipes.
“Rum! ”
The hostess is looking at me.
She hasn’t got her gears meshed
yet, and she thinks it’s me mak-
ing noises about rum.
“It’s for the hombre,” I says.
“Sir?”
“Take it easy, kid,” I tell her.
“One bottle of beer, cold, for
me. You got that? Right. One
rum for the specimen in the
cocoon alongside me.”
“Double-header,” pipes the
specimen. V
“Pull your head in,” I says.
The hostess looks at me and
a kind of laugh starts way back
in her eyes somewhere and
.there’s this tang of crushed
nasturtiums. Just before she
becomes real human she kills
the laugh or stores it down south
somewhere and pulls on her
hostess-mask and turns away.
“She give you notions?” says
the overcoat.
“You know as much about
notions as you know about
hombres,” I says.
He don’t say anything.
The hostess comes with the
drinks.
I murder four shillings in cold
blood. Because I’m still a sucker
for a pretty girl. This girl is
pretty and when I get off the
plane I won’t see her any more
and she won’t even think about
me because I’m just another
passenger. But she’s got a
laugh choked down somewhere
in among what she’s got under
that hostess-uniform and she
nearly let it out and I’m still a
sucker —sometimes. So I got to
pull out a note and make with
it like I’m upholstered with
notes and that’s where I murder
the four deeners. Because these
big airlines don’t go in for pea-
nuts and a double-header rum
costs 2s. 6d. on the ground but
4s. aloft and this hostess sees
me upholstered in frogskins so
she thinks I’m paying for the
double-header as well as my
beer and hands me 13s. change
and gives me the hostess-smile
and trots up the aisle.
And L. D. M. Mitchell grabs
the rum.
“Thanks,” he says. “Skin off
your nose.”
I take a suck at the beer and
hold a session with myself
whether he’s worth taking apart
and suddenly it hits me.
Rum.
Double-header rum!
Wrapped in an overcoat in a
pressurised cabin at 70deg. F.
and calling for double-header
rums.
I dribble a little more beer
into me and squirm sideways
and slant my left eye on this
Misere man. It comes to me
he’s got something, but I don’t
know what it is. Any galoot
wraps himself in an overcoat at
70deg. F. and calls for double-
rums has got something. It
might be influenza, but it could
be something else.
“You going far?” I lead.
“Far enough.”
“0.K., O.K. So it’s none of
my business.”
“What’s your business?” he
comes back.
“Special.”
“Huh?”
He’s had half the double-
header and is gently swirling the
other half round in the glass.
I got him in my sights and I’m
set to shoot him down.
“Special kind of business,” I
says.
He keeps on whirling the
glass and turns, and the slaty
eyes look out under the cap-
peak at rpe. I look right back
at them and I’m glad it isn’t
poker we’re playing.
Because you look at a con-
crete wall and what you see is
a dead loss. Which is what the
slaty eyes are. But I still got
him in my sights.
“Yair,” I says. “Very special
business.”
“You in the police?”
“You scared of police?”
“No,” he says. He takes a
half of what’s left of the rum
and takes his eyes away and
sits there, and twirls the glass
some more.
By this time night has swept
her mantle over the skies, as
the fellow says, and the plane-
lights come on. Lay Down
Misere is sunk in thought or
something.
“Special business, huh?” he
goes.
So I just leave the gun aimed
at him and wait, because he’s
a misere to be shot
down.
“Security Service, eh?” he
adds.
“Only security I worry about
is my own,” I says.
“But you’re in some special
business?”
“That’s right.”
He’s burning with it now and
the laugh starts down inside me.
He leans towards me and the
left side of his mouth opens and
out comes, “You on the lam?”
He reads detective-books or
he goes to the movies or listens
to radio-serials. Maybe he
takes in all three,
I give it back to him. I lean
over and open the right side of
my mouth.
“Nuh,” I give him. “Not on
no lam, but still in special
business. Very extra - special
business.”
“Yair?”
“Yair. It’s special and it’s
secret. You the kind of gink
can keep his guts?”
“Too right, pal,” he says.
“You can trust me.”
“O.K. Listen close, pal,” I
says. Maybe he’s shaking with
excitement. “Listen close. It’s
special and it’s secret because
it’s my own business and I’m
minding it. Get it, pal?”
So he’s shot down but he
don’t know it for about half a
minute. Then it hits him. He
sits up in the seat. He gives the
rum a whirl and chucks it down
his throat. He sticks the glass in
the seat-slot and shhcks himself
down in the overcoat and ex-
communicates himself from me
and the rest of the world.
Because he’s had it.
So he’s had it, and I’ve had
him, and that’s the finish of me
and Lay Down Misere Mitchell.
That’s what I thought.
The hostess comes along and
looks at him hunkered-down
and then she looks at me and
lifts an eyebrow.
“He’s right,” I tell her.
“Mentally worn, that’s all. Had
a lot on his mind, lately.”
“1 see,” she says. “Murray-
ford in thirty-two minutes, Mr.
Delaney.”
“Thanks.”
A little later she hands round
the barley-sugar and we fasten
our belts and pretty soon we’re
on the ground running between
the lights on the flarepath.
I follow L. D. M. Mitchell
down the gangway and into the
airport lounge and see him
make a beeline for the toilet-
rooms. Maybe the rum stirred
him, maybe the landing. He
went through that lounge like a
sprinter.
I light a cigarette and drift
around the lounge, looking over
the people. Nobody there I
know or would want to know.
I look over the magazines and
papers in the rack by the
refreshment-bar. Nothing there
I’d want to read.
“Attention, please,” says th®
loudspeaker. “Would passengers
for Murrayford take their seats
in the bus through the door on
the right, please! Passengers for
Murrayford, your bus is wait-
ing, please. Through the door
on the right.”
People start moving. I make
for the inquiry-desk. A tall,
well-dressed man in dark-blue
suit and snappy grey-felt hat
hurries from the toilet-rooms
and nearly bumps me.
“Sorry,” he says.
“0.K.”
Something rings a bell in my
memory and I turn and look at
him. He’s going away from me.
I can’t place him, but I got an
idea I run into him somewhere.
Bothers me a little. Because
I’m the kind don’t get bells
ringing unless it* means some-
thing. I spend a few seconds
on it, but nothing clicks. So I
go to the desk.
“The name’s Delaney,” I tell
the boy behind it. “Maybe you
got something for me.”
He goes to a rack behind him,
pulls down a lot of envelopes
and runs through them.
“Mister D. A. Delaney?” he
asks, over his shoulder.
“That’s right.”
He hands me an envelope
with my name typed on it. It
is chock-a-block with some-
thing. I go to open it but the
loudspeaker opens up again.
It’s a last-call for the bus so I
make for the door.
In the bus I open the envelope.
There’s ten single frogskins and
a note:
“Dear Del,
Can’t tell you why in this, but
couldn’t meet you at airport.
It’s necessary to use some cir-
cumspection. Don’t contact me
openly. Don’t stay at Grand
Hotel, that’s where I am. You’ll
probably get a room at the
Imperial or Crown. After you
get set go to a public phone and
call 379 and ask for me. I’ll
give you the drill then. The


enclosed is because you’re prob-
ably a bit short. I’ll be out of
town when you get in so don’t
call until sometime after ten.
Regards,
Lloyd Carson.”
Circumspection?
Don’t contact him openly!
So it’s one of those deals.
Regards, the gentleman says,
but don’t contact me openly.
One of those deals?
Well, me and Carson has been
on funny deals before this.
I fold the note. Then I open
it again. It’s typewritten. Car-
son never used a typewriter
while I knew it. So it’s seven-
to-four-on someone else typed
it. That makes three know I’m
in Murrayford. Carson, me and
the person typed the note, 1
look at his name. That’s in ink.
It’s Carson’s sign, all right,
I fold the note and put it
away. First thing I got to burn
it. I look out the bus window
on my side and we’re running
through houses. Most of ’em
have lights. Street-lights run by.
There’s trees along the kerb.
Cars come and go. A siren
starts-up somewhere and the bus
pulls over and an ambulance
tears by. People in the bus stare
after it. Up-front the gink in
the blue suit—the one nearly
bumped me in the airport-
lounge—stands up and peers
after the ambulance. I get a
side-view of his face. I never
seen him before, but the bell
rings somewhere.
So the bell rings and I run
back in my memory. Because
you get a living the way I do
you want to check-up on bells.
But 1 got to give it away, be-
cause nothing clicks and the bus
pulls out into the traffic and
then we’re among shops and
pulling-up at the airline-depot.
In five minutes my bag comes
out of the luggage-room and
I’m outside. Something hits me
and I turn and take a look at
the airline-depot. That airline
knows I’m here because the
ticket had my name on it. That
boy out at the airport gave me
the envelope. That builds it
up. Carson don’t want me to
contact him means he wants us
to be strangers. Maybe I could
do something about the airline
and that boy—then I see it
better. Carson don’t want me to
contact him. So what? Delaney
comes to Murrayford, but
nobody knows him or what he’s
come for. Means it don’t matter
about the airline. All I got to
do is keep away from Carson.
Because he knows me, but the
typist don’t.
But what the hell is he play-
ing at?
I flag a cab and climb in.
“Head for the Crown.”
It’s a small, neat hotel. Three
floors. I’m awarded room 10 on
the second. The hotel don’t run
to a lift. A quid a day, room
and breakfast only.
1 have a wash and go out and
find a cafe and eat.
It’s nine-twenty by then. I
got to call 379 after ten, so I
go out and light a cigarette and
take a stroll in the main street.
It’s just another main street.
Couple of other business-streets
intersect it and I look into them,
but there’s nothing for me. I
find a pool-room and go in and
sit. It’s tame. I go out and
stroll some more. I fight another
cigarette and remember Carson’s
note and put the match to it
and drop it in the gutter.
There’s a few people about.
Across the street a fat woman
walks the footpath with her
head screwed round. She’s
puzzling about that little fire in
the gutter and me watching it.
I watch it burn-out and I drift.
Nearly ten o’clock. Carson
says to use circumspection.
O.K. I’ll use it. But I got to
know the kind of country I’m
using it in. Means I better locate
the hotel where Carson fives.
I step off the kerb and look
along the skyline* of buildings.
It’s only half-a-block away,
on the same side as me, A big,
green neon against the sky.
GRAND.
Five floors up it goes, with a
granite front and a wide en-
trance and big swinging glass-
doors with chromium bars.
You wouldn’t get a room and
breakfast there for a quid a day.
I go through the swing-doors
and the foyer opens into a big
lounge, all maroon carpets and
leather-backed chairs and palms
in brass-pots, with a reception-
desk on the right, another
lounge through an archway on
the left, and straight ahead twin
elevator-doors, with a staircase
beside them.
I drift in. There’s a woman
behind the reception-desk, all
black hair and high Spanish-
comb and a deadpan face
ducoed for the night. A man
and a woman sit in chairs with
a little table between them.
The receptionist gives me the
once-over and forgets me. She’s
expecting me to come to her.
I turn through the arch’ into
the next lounge. Deep back in
it there’s six or seven men and
girls talking and laughing round
a table of drinks. Having them-
selves a time. Over by the
piano, by herself, sits a redhead
in a green dress. It’s off-the-
shoulder stuff. The shoulder is
the kind worth showing. Round,
white. The red hair down the
back ripples along the shoulder
like hair and skin are kissing
each other. Her arms are bare
to where the long green gloves
cover the elbows. The fight
sparkles on a necklet —maybe
diamonds, maybe diamente. I
wouldn’t know at that distance.
She’s had at least one drink.
The empty glass is in front of
her, a slice of lemon still stuck
on the side. I scout to the left
flank. To get a better look at
her face. It’s the kind of face
goes with the hair, the shoulders,
the green dress. Only it’s kind
of stormy.
Maybe she’s been stood up.
She oughtn’t to be drinking with
the flies —no lovely redhead
should be let drink with the flies.
I make a law against it, right
then. I move-in to proclaim it.
“Good-night,” I give her.
“Enjoying the party?”
She gives me a quick look,
then turns her head and says,
“Thank you, Sergeant. This is
Ross.”
I hadn’t spotted him because
he was sitting on the other side
of the piano. He’s a big, tough-
looking egg with that quiet look
they have.
He moves-in on me.
“All right, Ross,” he says.
“Let’s go.”
“Who the hell are you?”
“Sergeant Dickens, plain-
clothes branch, police. Come
on, come on. We don’t want a
fuss, do we?”
I ruddy well wanted a fuss.
Where did they get this Ross
stuff? Couldn’t a man speak to
a girl in this town? But you get
a living the way I get mine you
watch your step. I should of
kept away from this Grand pub.
I should of let the redhead
sit there, making with her empty
glass. Carson told me to contact
him, not stray redheads.
So I think about Carson and
it cools me off. My watch
makes it just on ten. I can go
with this Dickens and straighten
him out about Ross and do it
all nice and quiet.
I look at the redhead. She’s
sitting in the chair, looking at
me. She looks like she’d spit in
my face if she wasn’t a lady.
“0.K.,” I tell Dickens. 1 pull-
off a little bow to her. “I hope
they give me a good cell,” I
tell her.
Dickens touches my arm and
I turn away.
In the archway I look back.
She’s standing now. She’s taller
than I thought. Her mouth is
open and her eyes big. She’s
gaping.
She’s gaping because it’s hit
her that I’m not Ross.
Let it hit her. I go with
Dickens.
But who the dickens is this
Ross?
2. Mitchell Again
/"\UT on the street this big
Dickens man heads-off to
the right.
“What, no towing-service for
the customers?” I says.
“It’s only two or three min-
utes’ walk from here,” he says.
He’s wooden. Not giving any-
thing away. Delaney can be
wooden, too, if he wants.
After about fifty yards he
says, kind of gentle, “You
wouldn’t be thinking of shoot-
ing-through, would you, Ross?”
I look round. There’s two
smartly-dressed gazeekas lean-
ing in a doorway. They’re eye-
ing us.
“You reckon they’re friends
of mine?” I ask.
“Could be,” he says. “I know
them.”
We walk on a way.
“You got something on me,”
I says. “I never saw ’em before.
I’m about as big as you, Mr.
Dickens. You can have five-to-
four they reckon I’m just
another John,”
“Huh.” Sounds like he meant
it for a laugh,
“Look,” I says, “are you
lumbering me because I spoke
to that coppertop or because
you think I’m Ross?”
“Both,” he says. “And
shut-up.”
“0.K., mate, it’s your picnic.”
We go round a corner and in
behind a bunch of pepperinas
is the Murrayford police-station.
“This is Ross,” Dickens tells
the desk-sergeant. “Make it
offensive behavior. Better add
molesting a female, too —and
oh, yes being on licensed
premises after hours.”
The sergeant gives me a
dreary look and opens up the
big book and picks up a pen.
“Full name?”
“Denis Aloysius Delaney.”
He don’t write anything. He
just sits, frozen, and his eyes
turn from me and he puts the
look on Dickens.
I don’t look at Dickens. I’ve
had Dickens.
I pull out my wallet and take
from it my driving-licence,
Army-discharge, lettercard from
Moira, photo of Nugget and me
in Army uniform, room-rent
receipt made out to me by the
Crown hotel, other things. I
spread ’em all on the desk.
“If you want any more I can
get ’em,” I says. I stand there
and light a cigarette and look
at Dickens.
For about half a minute he
looks like someone kicked him
in the slats. His face goes
white, then it turns red--
flaming red. Up behind him is
one of those wall-clocks. It
makes the time 10.15.
“Can I use your phone?” I
says to the desk-sergeant.
“Sure,” he says. He’s inter-
ested in Dickens. I leave him
interested in Dickens and step
across to the phone. It goes
through a switch in another
room. A constabulary - voice
says, “Yes?”
“Gimme three-seven-nine.”
On the wall a notice tells me
the closed-season for quail has
five weeks to run.
The phone tells me, “Grand
Hotel speaking,”
“Put me through —never
mind.”
I hang-up quick. Don’t con-
tact me openly, Carson says. I
near-as-a-shot spilled his name
with this Dickens and the
sergeant listening.
“How long you been in
Murrayford?” Dickens asks.
“Hour or so,” I tell him.
“Who wants to know?”
He grins. It’s a kind of sore
grin. It’s his way of telling me
he’s done a damn’ silly thing
and hopes I won’t hold it
against him.
So I don’t hold it against him.
Because it was the redhead
started it and it’s her I’m hold-
ing it against,
“I’ve only been here a week
or so myself,” he says. “I only
had a rough idea of this Ross
bird. So when Miss Martin says
you’re him”
“That the coppertop?”
“Yair.”
“This Ross got her biting?”
“She come here,” the desk-
sergeant says, “an’ put in a com-
plaint about Ross. We’re always
gettin’ complaints about him.
Except for the clothes you’re a
walking - image of him, Mr.
Delaney. We readied for him.
You walked into the ready.
That’s how it was.”
Well, that could be. All these
towns got their Rosses, I reckon.
Wild wolves in their own little
two-by-fours and get away with
it —until they bump someone
like the redhead. Which moves
the redhead up a notch or two
way I see it. Because she made
a blue haying Delaney pinched
and it ought to be good watch-
ing her square it olf.
So I’m tired of these coppers
and this Ross, but not of the
redhead. I got two things to
do. Phone Carson and run-
down the redhead and see how
she gets out of it.
“0.K.,” I tell the law. “Let’s
forget it. 1 got things to do.”
I go out of there and back on
the main-street and find a
public phone-booth. I dial 379
and drop in the pennies.
“Grand Hotel speaking.”
“I want to talk to Mr. Carson
—Mr. Lloyd Carson.”
“Who’s speaking, please?”
“It doesn’t matter. He’ll know
who it is. You just put me
through to him, boy.”
“I’m very sorry, sir. There’s
been an accident. A very serious
accident. If you’re a relative or
a friend of Mr. Carson’s we’d
be glad to”
“Listen! What the hell’s
happened?”
“I’m afraid Mr. Carson is
dead, sir. We’ve just heard and
we”
I cut him off. He’s in a dither
and you can’t do anything over
the phone with a gink in a
dither.
I surge along the street to the
Grand and go through the big
glass-doors.
It’s quieter than ever. The
enamelled woman isn’t behind
the reception-desk. In her place
is a droopy youth with curls and
wearing a waiter’s black coat,
white shirt and black bow-tie.
He’s wearing a bad-news look,
too, and knows it.
There’s nobody else around I
can see.
“What’s this about Carson?”
“Did you know Mr. Carson,
sir?”
“Yes, yes. I’m the chap just
telephoned. I just got in. Had
an appointment with him.
What’s happened?”
He puts about a yard and a
half of gloom in his voice.
“A terrible thing, sir. Such
{Continued on page 34)
“She oughtn’t to be drinking with the flies —no lovely redhead should be let drink with the flies. I make a law against it, right
then. I move-in to proclaim it.”


AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
AUTUMN MEETING, 1954
TO BE HELD AT RANDWICK RACECOURSE
17th, 19th, 21st & 24th APRIL
PRINCIPAL EVENTS
Ist Day—Saturday, 17th April
THE DONCASTER HANDICAP. £5,000 added. One mile.
THE A.J.C. SIRES’ PRODUCE STAKES. £5,000 added.
Seven Furlongs.
THE A.J.C. ST. LEGER. £3,000 added. One Mile and
Threequarters.
2nd Day—Monday, 19th April
THE SYDNEY CUP. £12,500 added and a Gold Cup
valued at £5OO. Two Miles.
3rd Day—Wednesday, 21st April
THE ALL AGED STAKES. £2,000 added. One Mile.
THE CHAMPAGNE STAKES. £2,500 added. Six
Furlongs.
4th Day—Saturday, 24th April
THE ADRIAN KNOX STAKES. £3,000 added. One
Mile and a Quarter.
THE A.J.C. PLATE. £2,000 added. Two Miles.
Office:
6 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
W. N. Parky-OkbDbn,
Secretary.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA — (Divorce).
No. 165 of 1958.
TO ARTHUR STANLEY TRIFFETT
formerly of No. 38 De Witt Street
Hobart in Tasmania. —TAKE NOTICE
that a Petition has been filed in this
Court endorsed with a notice to you to
appear and answer the charges in the
Petition of MARY MARION TRIFFETT
of Hobart in Tasmania praying for diso-
lution of marriage on the ground of
desertion and in default of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said charges proved
and pronounce judgment therein your
absence notwithstanding AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid an appearance must be en-
tered at the Principal Registry of the
Supreme Court, Macquarie Street, Hobart,
in the State of Tasmania, within thirty
days of the publication of this notice.
DATED this 10th day of November, 1953.
—H. R. DOBBIE, Principal Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NOLAH MABEL MILLER Respon-
dent and CHARLES FRANKLIN Oo-
Respofldent both late of Charcoal Mill
Pheasant Grounds Robertson New South
Wales. TAKE NOTICE that
FREDERICK ARTHUR JOSEPH
MILLER has filed a Petition No. 1922
of 1953 praying for a divorce from
NOLAH MABEL MILLER on the ground
of her adultery with CHARLES FRANK-
LIN If you or either of you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 15th June
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from N. 0. ROWLES »
TOWNSHEND, Solicitors, of 92 Pitt
Street, Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Final gallops for the open-
ing day of the A.J.C.’s autumn
racing carnival, which will begin
at Randwick this coming Satur-
day with the running of the
Doncaster Handicap, Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes, St. Leger and
Autumn Stakes, are not likely to
make any difference to the bet-
ting-market on the principal
double. Doncaster and Sydney
Cup. Racing on the first day
might, of course, bring changes
in the Cup market.
Racing at Rosehill last Satur-
day did nothing more than con-
solidate Carioca as Doncaster
favorite. He carried 9.7 —his
Doncaster weight—and in a
grand finish in the Quality Han-
dicap all the honors were with
him when he beat Karendi and
Silver Phantom.
Carioca on Saturday conceded
his opponents a start and gave
them weight, and as he cannot
get any more weight for that
success it is difficult to visualise
any of them tossing him in the
Doncaster. Most danger may
come from Silver Phantom, but
he drops lib. only to 8.10, and
Cook, on Carioca, is bound to
see that the speedy grey doesn’t
get too far away from him at
any stage of the mile.
So for the Doncaster, Carioca,
with Silver Phantom next-best
and Queenslander Prince Charm
perhaps best of the remainder.
At time of writing New Zea-
lander Gold Scheme remains
favorite for the Sydney Cup.
Another from the Dominion,
Lancaster, has intrigued race-
goers because so little has been
seen of him since his arrival.
He is a proved stayer, however,
and Sydney Cups are won by
stickers. Gold Scheme has
shown ability over the Cup dis-
tance and has indicated pros-
pects for Monday next in Syd-
ney races.
In the field of comparatively
modest stayers backers might
easily miss the Sydney Cup win-
ner. Carioca won the race last
year, but in the two previous
seasons lightweights Opulent
and Bankstream were successful.
Rosehill running didn’t point to
any likely Cup surprise, though
the best of the three-year-olds
might show quick improvement
on the first day and enter the
big-race picture. Double Blank
may have age against him, but
can stay. His Rosehill Cup effort
must have pleased connections,
as he was doing best work at
the end of the mile and a quar-
ter.
Gold Scheme is selected to win
the Sydney Cup from Euphrates
and Double Blank.
Darby Munro is confident of
winning, on Gallant Archer, his
third Doncaster. He has now
won five races on him in six
starts. The stable itself fancies
Gallant Archer’s prospects best
at the two miles of the Cup, but
Munro seems confident he can
win the mile. Actually, on per-
formances Gallant Archer’s
favorite distance seems to be a
mile-and-a-quarter.
Should Carioca successfully
carry his 9.7 in the Doncaster he
won’t set a weight-carrying
record for the mile. Two have
won it with the welter weight of
10.4 Marvel (1892) and
Chatham (1937). There was no
fixed maximum in earlier years.
Jim Pike won on Chatham. He
was also successful the previous
year on Winooka, with 9.13.
Hall Mark won with 9.8. In the
early years owners thought
nothing of starting
against the older horses, and two
of them won the Doncaster —
Briseis, with 5.7, and Crossfire,
with 6.2.
Gold Scheme belongs to the
popular age-group so far as the
Sydney Cup is concerned, four-
year-olds having won 30 Cups.
Three-year-olds have had 25
successes. Since the Cup’s incep-
tion in 1866 only one aged
galloper—Kingfisher, in 1877 —
has been successful. Lucrative,
as a class Victorian three-year-
old, holds the time-record, 3.20|,
which isn’t much outside the
Australian record, 3. 19 j.
Longest-priced Cup winner was
200-to-l Murray King in 1926.
With three wins Darby Munro
has done best of today’s jockeys.
The Barb, Carbine, Mosaic and
Veiled Threat all won the Cup
twice.
Hottest winning-favorite in the
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes over
the past quarter of a century was
Gold Rod, at 5 to 1 on, in 1936.
He was ridden by Maurice
McCarten, who piloted six
winners of this two-year-old
classic, the others being Royal
Feast, Ammon Ra, Kuvera,
Ajax and Lucrative. Most of
them subsequently won many
thousands in stakes and they
figure largely in Australasian
Turf records. Bill Cook has won
the race five times. Winning
favorites in recent years included
Pure Fire (5/ 4), Field Boy (11/4),
Riptide (3’s), Shannon (2’s),
Mayfowl (5/2), Yaralla (10/9),
Nuffield (7/4), Kuvera (2’s) and
Ammon Ra (evens). On the
other side of the picture some
hotpots have let backers down,
among them Hydrogen, Lady
Pirouette, Chaperone, Courtship,
Moorland, Hesione and High
Caste. Last-named four all
started at odds-on.
Rank outsider French Suit,
winner of First Rosehill Parra-
matta Stakes on Saturday, is a
close relative of that grand mare
Tranquil Star. The three-year-
old Kia-Ora-bred colt is by Le
Grand Due (imp.) from Playsuit
by Agincourt (imp.) from Flighty
(sister to Tranquil Star) by Gay
Lothario (imp.) from Lone Star
by Great Star (imp.).
Villager’s strong finish into
third place to weight-for-age per-
formers Gallant Archer and
Tarien in the Rawson Stakes at
Rosehill has raised the stable
hopes for St. Leger success.
Villager is a son of Wayside Inn
(imp.), who won in England at
H miles —distance of the St.
Leger—while the latter’s sire,
Fairway, was successful up to
miles. As the St. Leger field
won’t be strong, this graduate
from the restricted ranks, still
“Well, what’s Wrong with snakeskin waders?”
eligible for Encourage-class,
could be a classic prospect.
Melbourne Cup winner
Wodalla, burdened with 9.13.
beat all except Gallant Rob in
the Shannon Handicap at
Moonee Valley, the mile being
too short for him. However, it
pointed the way to probable
success in the £4150 Sandown
Cup, 13 furlongs, to be run on
Easter Monday. Wodalla last
month ran second to Aldershot in
the V.R.C. Carbine Stakes, 2\
miles.
Costing 725gns. as a yearling,
Forward Cover, Warwick Farm
and Rosehill winner, is a son of
Valiant Chief and Bretton Woods
(a half-sister to former speed-
ster Versailles), by Manitoba
(imp.) from Du Barry by Chief
Ruler (imp.). He was bred by
J. Lyne, of Currabubula
(N.S.W.), and was one of the last
yearlings to enter the Randwick
sale-ring last autumn. Both wins
were full of merit.
A moderate batch of three-
year-olds seems likely to contest
the Randwick St. Leger this
coming Saturday. Twelve
months ago Sea Sovereign was a
surprise winner at 25 to 1 over
10-to-9 favorite Advocate and
Victorian Arbroath (6 to 4).
Wodalla, who later in the year
won the Melbourne Cup, finished
last in that classic. Sea Sovereign
had failed in all seven starts as
a three-year-old prior to landing
the St. Leger, but a few weeks
later he cantered in with the
Q.T.C. St. Leger, beating, how-
ever, a weak quartet. Sea
Sovereign beat only one home in
the Sydney Cup, but not many
have completed the St. Leger-
Cup double, those to do so being
Carbon Copy, Laureate, Mosaic,
Winalot, Wallace, Progress,
Petrea and Fishhook.
Few horses have contested, let
alone won, the Rawson Stakes-
Doncaster double, but the best
horses in the land have won
the w.-f.-a. event, including
Limerick, Valicare, Nightmarch,
Ammon Ra, Lough Neagh,
Rogilla, Peter Pan, Bernborough
and Columnist. One that didn’t
win, and was quoted at 40 to 1
on, was Ajax in 1939. In that
sensational race, which cost a
few venturesome punters a lot
of money, Spear Chief (33’s),
ridden by Maurice McCarten,
beat the hot-pot half a length,
with Allunga third. They were
the only starters. Gallant Archer
brilliantly won the latest race of
the series.
Most of the 795 yearlings to
be offered at the Randwick sales
by William Inglis and Son Pty.,
Ltd., already are at the com-
pany’s stables and have been
viewed at close quarters by keen
owners and trainers. On Easter
Sunday there will be a big roll-
up to see the youngsters, as two
days later the first 190 will come
under the hammer. First year-
ling to parade will be from Kia-
Ora stud. Scone (N.S.W.)—-a
good-looking black colt by Le
Grand Due (imp.) from an im-
ported mare, Yangdo, by Tai-
Yang from D’Oraine by Haine.
He is closely related to Money-
box, a winner of the Manchester
Cup di mile). He will be fol-
lowed into the ring by a brother
to Forest Land, and a brother to
Seacraft.
Golden Hackle (imp.), a win-
ner in England from six fur-
longs to ly mile, should get
winners in Australia, as he is
bred along the right lines and is
a half-brother to Newtown Won-
der (imp.), whose progeny are
noted for early speed. The New-
town Wonders are enjoying a
run of success in various States.
Golden Hackle is a son of a
noted sire, Hyperion, and is from
Clarapple by Apple Sammy. He
is in his first season as a sire,
and to date few of his progeny
have faced a barrier. One of
them, Achillean, raced by his
breeder, J. F. Ledgerwood, im-
pressed in winning a Hawkesbury
Maiden Two-year-old. The colt,
a first-start winner, is from the
Le Grand Due (imp.) mare
Duclair.
* * *
Sydney Rugby Union games
last Saturday; St. George 15,
Drummoyne 15; Gordon 23,
Easts 6 ; Norths 15, Parramatta
13 ; Randwick 18, Manly 6 ; Uni-
versity 21, Eastwood 9.
The Randwick-Manly game
was a bit one-sided, as the scores
indicate, but Manly kept trying.
Tony Miller, for the losers, gave
the type of all-round solid for-
ward work that deserves praise
any time, and particularly in an
uphill fight. Manly five-eighth,
Clarrie DaVis, was off form, and
the weakness was exploited by
the Randwick backs. Randwick
pack was heavy and efficient —
Cross and Shehadie, who turn
out good games with a machine-
like consistency, again outstand-
ing. Utility back Cyril Carroll,
playing his last game before go-
ing to England, made the most
of the occasion.
* * *
“Kooyong”; Mervyn Rose,
Australian lawn-tennis title-
holder, won the Australian hard-
court title in Brisbane last week.
If he maintains present form
he’ll have a good chance of win-
ning the big overseas titles, and
could regain his singles berth in
the next Davis Cup side, Don
Candy, whom Rose easily de-
feated in the final, did better in
this tourney than he’s done for
a long while; he beat Rosewall
in a semi-final. Candy has never
quite made the grade, after giv-
ing great promise when a junior.
Candy it was, incidentally, who
persuaded Ken McGregor to
concentrate on tennis instead of
his main love, Australian Rules,
to which he has now returned.
* * *
Queensland lasses C. Ander-
son, J. Darrough, J. Green, N.
Tierney (stroke) and J. Smithers
(cox and coach) stitched N.S.W.,
with Victoria third, in the Aus-
tralian women’s four-oared
championship, rowed on the
Y arra.
» • • •
Trailing early in the race, Gee-
long Grammar rowed strongly
after the first half-mile to beat
Xavier by a length in Mel-
bourne’s Head of the River, with
Melbourne Grammar third. It
made two in succession for the
winners.
Conditions on the Nepean on
Saturday were ideal for Sydney’s
Head of the River, and the Shore
crew matched them with what
looked like an exhibition display
of model rowing. One of the
most polished eights that even
Shore has ever turned out, they
came down the mid-river as good
as faultlessly, finishing as fresh
as if their performance had been
as effortless as it looked, to beat
Newington more than a length,
with King’s third. Shore also
won the first fours, beating High,
who won both the third and
fourth fours, St. Joseph’s taking
the second.
* * *
For a change, heavyweights
headlined the last Leichhardt
Stadium bill, Tongan Kitione
Lave (14.2) clashing with Alan
Williams (13.1). Winner of his
last few fights, Williams was
given a great chance, and straight
punches cut Lave’s right cheek
in the first round and the dusky
left eyebrow was laid open in
round four. These indignities
were apparently rather resented
by Lave. He twice floored
Williams for compulsory “eight”
counts in session six and in the
seventh landed rights to
Williams’s head consistently.
When another dexter delivery
dropped Williams in the eighth
referee Jack Burns declared for
the Tongan on a t.k.o.


HARG AN S owner
folk tally |
! Bga Wagga,
16,h oc 'oW, 1953
SVIWEV C 'v^ w f MaD «<* Ltd.,
Dear Sir,
TV e^ )rila I’y 1950 r
a-.« Z’ v :z,r-- •“ * - -»»
M »™” .•....«, w ._
~nil °f «U. ««„ ™ qU,reB a ««J e
Voi,rs faithfully,
3**eo/
«»
mi
.
n
/•tv#
#*■
...but the new
HARGANS Timber AM
does even better!
its
ADJUSTABLE CHASSIS
sees to that!
Straddles and rips logs 2 ft. in
diameter! Cuts vertically 5 to 7 ft.
above ground! Cuts horizontally
as low as 12 ins. above ground!
Never before has a mobile power
saw been capable of such a range of
blade work. Whether felling or mill-
ing, the Hargans TIMBER CHIEF with
its flexible chassis gets the edge on
all other saws.
Set the saw to suit your own height,
too. Tall, short or anywhere in
between, the TIMBER CHIEF can be
"tailored to measure" for any cutting,
It's an exclusive feature.
Other outstanding chassis features
include:
• larger wheels • streamlined "easy
grip" handles • double fork assembly
• folding vee-strut • depth control
chain.
HARGANS OWNERS!
Convert your existing Hargans to a
"Timber Chief" at low cost. Send for
full details.
w
WALK IT AWAY.
Thanks to Hargans handy
positive self-drive (optional
extra), after only two
simple adjustments you can
squeeze the handle grips
and the simple, powerful
Hargans self-drive comes
into play to propel the
"Timber Chief" at normal
walking speed, anywhere
you wish.
Note auxiliary blade
position for safe transport.
ŵ
ASK FOR A DEMONSTRATION ON YOUR OWN
LAND TO-DAY!
Australasian Distributors:
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
Mailoch House, 10-14 Young Street. Sydney.
Phone BU 5095. Letters: Box 509, 5.P.0., Sydney.
Branches at Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay.
H 512.188


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
How the Bible is
building Israel
A passage from Kings I has
led archeologists to the rich
copper mines of King Solomon.
The story of Sodom and Gomor-
rah’s fiery destruction has
shown prospectors where to
drill for oil. Samson’s visit to
Delilah has given farmers a
clue to what crops to grow; the
Book of Amos has shown how
to find water for them.
April Reader’s Digest tells
how God’s Word is guiding
Israel to forgotten riches, may
help turn it into the promised
Land of Eden.
Also in April Reader’s Digest,
“Those Germ Warfare Confes-
sions,” and a wealth of other
stimulating articles condensed
from world’s leading magazines
and current books. 1/6 at ai
newsagents and bookstalls.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GENEVA
The Western Powers went to
the Berlin conference early this
year determined, as London
“Spectator” puts it, “to make
some progress towards a German
settlement and to resist Russian
proposals for a wider conference
on world tensions, with China
represented; and they came
away having failed to get their
\tfay on the German question,
while having engaged themselves
to talk with both Russian and
Chinese Communists about
Korea and Indo-China at
Geneva in April.”
As the conference approaches
it becomes obvious, in the
editorial opinion of “New York
Times,” “that new pressure is
building-up in various parts of
the world for an effort to try to
buy ‘peace’ in the Far East at
the price of Western concessions
to Communist China in the
shape of general recognition,
membership in the United
Nations and enlarged trade.”
The pressure for recognition
is, of course, not only Russian
and Chinese —there is influential
support for it among the Allies,
including America, which is, at
the same time and on current
published evidence, the firmest
opponent.
Two recent qualified sup-
porters for general recognition
are Sir Gladwyn Jebb and the
General-Secretary of U.N., Dag
Hammarskjold. Jebb has re-
marked that Red China should be
admitted to the world organisa-
tion once it has purged itself of
aggression, while Hammarskjold
believes that “all the representa-
tives of the main centres of
power must be there” when the
nations meet around the
conference-table.
Typifying American opposi-
tion to such recognition, “New
York Times” continues: “Sir
Gladwyn suggests, in effect, that
Red China would not be
eligible until this ‘purge’ of
aggression had taken place. On
the record, thus far, this seems
an unlikely contingency at any
time in the near future. Thus
far Red China has not even
admitted to the fact of its aggres-
sion, much less shown any
inclination to abandon it.
Peiping has not deviated in the
slightest from the charge that it
is the United Nations that is the
aggressor, and therefore any
genuine ‘purge’ of aggression
seems improbable.
“If the Chinese Reds go to
Geneva with ironclad guarantees
that their soldiers will get out
and stay out of Korea and that
their military supplies will posi-
tively not be furnished for the
killing of one more Vietnamese
or Frenchman, Sir Gladwyn
will have a case that can be
made persuasive. There is no
reason suspect such a Com-
munist volte-face.
“On the other argument, that
‘all centres of power’ ought to
be represented in international
councils, it should be observed
that much depends on what the
power is and for what it is used.
In this case a ‘centre of power’
that has been named by the
United Nations as an aggressor is
demanding a , place in the
councils of a body whose purpose
is to oppose aggression.
“The preliminary manoeuvres
in Moscow and Peiping strongly
suggest that the Chinese Com-
munists will make some ‘conces-
sions,’ especially to the French,
in return for recognition of their
claim to a seat on the Security
Council. How good such ‘con-
cessions’ would prove to be can
be judged only by the past.
“The French will be well
advised to realise, and the United
States will continue sternly to
insist, that there is neither logic
nor profit in paying a bribe to
the Communists to get their
worthless promise not to do
again what they had no business
doing in the first place.”
Meanwhile, the Red Govern-
ment of China is doing its best
to turn the forthcoming Geneva
conference into useful propa-
ganda for home-consumption.
American terms for Geneva
restricted it to Asian matters, and
stated explicitly that the confer-
ence in no way implied recog-
nition of Communist China;
“Now, however,” comments
London “Economist,” “Peking—
with support from Moscow —is
hammering home the idea that
Geneva is essentially a meeting
of the ‘Big Five,’ and that China
will be there as a host, not a
guest.”
This is much more than mere
formalism, adds the “Economist.”
Communist China’s propaganda
“reverberates like a mighty gong
throughout Asia,” and the
Chinese clearly intend to get the
utmost publicity for Asian con-
sumption out of their presence
at Geneva:
“What the Chinese are saying
shows that they see Geneva as a
virtual substitute for the United
Nations; the conference, far
from being restricted to Korea
and Indo-China, will, they insist,
open a perspective of further ‘Big
Five’ meetings that will deal with
all major international problems.
The Western Governments will
have to be both firm and
resourceful if they are to main-
tain their thesis that China must
earn its place in the sun by
improving its behavior.”
Britain and Europe
British Press arguments in
favor of Britain’s joining the
European Defence Community
and thus bolstering France’s
wavering faith in that proposal
were given here last week. There
are, of course, many arguments
against, of which one example
is the following letter to London
“Daily Telegraph” from Major-
General Edward L. Spears, who
was the British Prime Minister’s
Personal Representative with the
French Prime Minister and
Minister for Defence in 1940
and who followed that with a
noteworthy record in Middle
East affairs :
“The proposal that Britain
should join the European
Defence Community would
reverse historical tradition by
handcuffing Britain to the Con-
tinent.
“Some people argue that
modern weapons, by reducing the
Channel to a mere ditch, have
made a Continental nation of us
[Britain] whether we like it or
not. This is nonsense. We were
told exactly the same thing before
the last war. The Channel is,
and will remain, a formidable
obstacle so long as its shores
are defended by brave, resolute
men.
“Why are we being thus
pressed to forfeit our freedom
of action and of decision? It is
because the French are
frightened of the Germans, and
will only consent to Germany
being rearmed if its forces are
matched by British and Ameri-
can divisions. For the same
reason France will not allow
Germany to join Nato.
“France’s fears are under-
standable. We also know what a
dangerous enemy Germany can
be. But there is another
potential enemy in the field in
Russia, and there are few people
in Britain who do not believe
that, of the two, Russia presents
the greater danger. Germany
had its lesson in the last war,
when it learnt what devastation
of its territory meant, whereas
in the First World War it
escaped invasion.
“Now Germany is the only
Continental nation which,
properly armed, could hold a
Russian attack on land. To think
that a force comprising con-
tingents from every country
could do so is to share the
delusion of those who placed
“New York Times”
INDESTRUCTIBLE
their hopes in the building of the
Tower of Babel.
“As it is the French who
oppose the rearming of
Germany, it would seem reason-
able to ask them whether they
are prepared to assume the role
they will not allow the Germans
to fill. They have neither the
strength nor the will to assume
so formidable a task. How could
they when one in four of their
electors votes Communist?
“There would thus appear to
be no choice, if we mean
seriously to hold the Russian
menace, but for the United
States and ourselves to rearm
Germany and to encourage it to
develop maximum strength.
“If the United States, not as
directly threatened as Britain,
takes a different view, then it
should be invited to fill with
American troops the gap result-
ing from U.S. objections to
maximum German rearming.
“The United States has proved
a generous and strong associate
in common danger, but it cannot
be expected to share Britain’s
point of view entirely. America
sees itself occupying the same
position in relation to Europe as
Britain once did, protected by
the sea, and able to hold back or
to choose its point of attack at
will. Britain is a sure base for
U.S. air-forces, and America
cannot but desire to see Britain’s
armies in Europe strengthening
the barrier against Russia.
“Today America’s armies are
there too, but will they be there
tomorrow? If and when Britain’s
armies are once integrated in the
E.D.C., can we be sure that the
clamor to ‘bring the boys back
home’ will not become
irresistible? As the Channel is
today, so will be the Atlantic or
even the Pacific tomorrow.
America’s problem will then be
even graver than Britain’s is now.
for the American seaboard is
immense.
“The conclusion would seem
to be that it is as much the
interest of the United States as
it is Britain’s to discourage
Russia from attacking the West
by facing it with the only force
of any significance available a
well-armed Germany.”
The Big Four
Anthony Eden, John Foster
Dulles, Georges Bidault and
Vyacheslav Mikhailovich
Molotov will shortly face each
other across the conference-table
again, and although Molotov’s
considered opinion of the other
three is unlikely ever to be pub-
lished he possibly subscribes to
the Great Soviet Encyclopedia
report on them:
“Dulles, John Foster (born
1888) —Reactionary U.S. poli-
tician, belonging to the Republi-
can party. One of the most re-
actionary representatives of
American imperialism, which
tries to achieve world domina-
tion. He supports the resurg-
ance of Fascism in West
Germany and its inclusion into
the aggressive North Atlantic
bloc.”
“Eden, Anthony (born 1897)
—Reactionary politician and
diplomat. He pursued a policy
of appeasement of the Fascist
aggressors. He advocated a
policy of agreement with the
Fascist Powers, but disagreed
with Prime Minister Neville
Chamberlain on the methods to
be used. This caused his retire-
ment.”
“Bidault, Georges (born 1899 )
—He joined the resistance move-
ment in 1942 in order to limit
its scope. By his active partici-
pation in the creation of the
Western bloc (1948) he trampled
under his feet the pact of friend-
ship and mutual assistance with
the Soviet Union, signed by him-
self December 10, 1944.”
Molotov, for his part, was
described a little more objec-
tively by Sir Winston Churchill
while watching the Russian in
action. As quoted by “U.S. News
and World Report,” Churchill
wrote:
“Vyacheslav Molotov is a
man of outstanding ability and
cold-blooded ruthlessness. He
has lived and thrived in a society
where ever-varying intrigue was
accompanied by the constant
menace of personal liquidation.
His cannon-ball head, black
moustache and comprehending
eyes, his slab face, his verbal
adroitness and imperturbable
demeanor were appropriate
manifestations of his qualities
and skill.
“He is above all men fitted to
be the agent and instrument of
the policy of an incalculable
machine. I have never seen a
human being who more perfectly
represented the modern concep-
tion of a robot.”
Various Voices
French Foreign Minister
Bidault: “The Peace Treaty with
Germany must be of such a
nature as not only to provide a
suitable conclusion to the war,
but to avoid sowing the seeds of
a new conflict. It is essential not
to leave Germany isolated in the
heart of Europe and to prevent
the rebirth of aggressive
militarism.”
Clement Attlee: “We [the
British] are the most illogical
people on earth and our Con-
stitution is thoroughly illogical,
but the only thing to be said for
it is that it works. Some of our
other friends in other countries
have admirable Constitutions —
they couldn’t be better —but the
only trouble is that they don’t
start.”
Marshal of the R.AF. Sir
John Slessor: “Today no one
will force a major war if he
knows that to do so will bring
down the annihilating force of
atomic air-power on his head. I
believe that knowledge is a pre-
dominating factor in Soviet
policy.”
Britain’s First Lord of the
Admiralty, J. P. L. Thomas:
“The Navy will fight the next
war with the next war’s
weapons.”
Admiral Radford, chairman
of the U.S. Joint Chiefs-of-Staff:
“Our [American] planning does
not subscribe to the thinking that
the ability to deliver massive
atomic retaliation is, by itself,
adequate to meet all our security
needs. It is not correct to say
we are relying exclusively on one
weapon, or one service, or that
we are anticipating one kind of
war. I believe that the nation
could be a prisoner of its own
military posture if it had no
capability other than one to
deliver a massive atomic attack.”
U.S. Secretary of State, John
Foster Dulles: “Our ultimate
reliance is not dollars, is not
guided-missiles, is not weapons
of mass destruction. The ulti-
mate weapon is moral principle.
I do not argue that American
foreign policy should be con-
ducted for the benefit of others.
American foreign policy should
be designed to promote Ameri-
can welfare. But we can know
that our own welfare would not
really be promoted by cynical
conduct which defies moral
principles. In a world in which
no nation can live alone, to
treat our friends unjustly is to
destroy ourselves,”
British Conservative M.P.,
Mr. McAdden: “Members of
Parliament try to sell them-
selves to the electors and have
this advantage —the customers
cannot close the account for at
least five years.”
Sir Roger Makins, British
Ambassador to the U.S.: “It is
fashionable to-day in some
quarters to speak and write of
Britain as if she were an old
war-horse, good in her day, but
tired now and almost ready to
be put out to grass. Nothing
could be further from the
truth.”


PRODUCTS or THE
RooteS
CROUP
ROOTES GROUP
PRESENTS
I ■
m
m
IMi
1
! I C £ V
mm
?.'• ‘
: ■
■i
gPS
THE
HUMBER SUPER SNIPE
Here is the car that takes you straight into “A New Era” of
finer motoring. The new immensely powerful “Blue Riband”
O.H.V. engine, new coil suspension, supreme comfort, panor-
amic vision, and elegant styling provide a new best in powerful
luxurious motoring.
ma
v I . • Jk
- -
■ '
m
'
'o; Ml
,
tm m
?»&s
ars
...
■ ■ ■
THE
HUMBER HAWK
Brilliant new styling, beauty of line and a fine performance,
coupled with economy are the hallmarks of the new Humber
Hawk. Here is your opportunity to own and drive a car of
distinction, elegance and quality, ideal for business and family
needs, yet moderately priced.
.
,
m
m ■
II
■
a
THE
HILLMAN MINX
Twenty-one years of progress and achievement are behind the
new “Anniversary” Hillman Minx. Twenty-one thousand
million miles have perfected this latest member of the family for
you, providing new appearance, all round increased economy,
more comfort and still greater refinement in every detail.
Produced in the Factory o£
ROUTES (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
Fishermen’s Bend,
Paml- IViolKniii*nn
HUMBER) HILLMAN) SUNBEAM-TALBOT CARS • CONNER, KARRI ER TRUCKS


The Prime Minister laughs at Himself
Three Years with
MENZIES
By STEWART COCKBURN
IN most people intelligence is
accounted a mark of grace.
In Menzies it has been a
paramount political burden.
“The trouble with Menzies is
that he’s too intelligent! ” Who
hasn’t heard that said of him?
And one of the reasons for his
personal unpopularity in past
years was the inability of anyone
not only to worst him in argu-
ment or repartee but to catch him
with his guard down in any
situation at all.
Few things help to endear a
man to us more than his
occasional defeat or humiliation.
For that reason the inevitable
human sympathy which followed
his catastrophic fall in 1941
carried within it the seed of new
support which swept him back
into office eight years later.
Still, these moments of
humiliation have been few, and
only on the grand scale. When
Menzies did fall, he fell with a
resounding crash.
What were some of the factors
which helped Chifley with his
opponents? For all his immense
ability and natural dignity and
charm, Mr. Chifley lacked polish
in matters which the majority of
Australians regard as of no
account, but which gave many
of his detractors a false sense
of superiority. They would
criticise his occasional lapses of
grammar, his harsh speaking
voice, his table manners, or some
other mark of unsophistication.
Chifley was quite indifferent to
such manifestations of what he
considered human veneer. He
was interested in men, not their
manners; in government, not
grammar.
But, perhaps unconsciously, he
thus headed off quite a lot of
hostility that might have been
stronger among men whose ego
was appeased by conceiving
themselves more accomplished
than their Prime Minister in
these small personal charac-
teristics, and who therefore bore
defeat in negotiation and other
more important respects a little
more tolerantly.
Chifley, it is said, had a more
charming way of saying “No”
than any other man in Canberra.
Menzies has rarely been able to
say it as graciously. He has
lacked Chifley’s bit of the
blarney. How often have his
Press - secretaries and party
organisers not wished that he did
have it!
A somewhat rumbustious
example of the Prime Minister
being caught very much at a dis-
advantage is provided, however,
by a series of remarkable
encounters which he has had
since 1951 with the followers of
a still-indispensable nocturnal
profession not normally the
subject of polite conversation.
One of these episodes occurred
in Northern Tasmania in March,
1953, when the Prime Minister
was on tour with the Minister for
Social Services, Mr. Townley.
They were inspecting scores of
children who were lined-up on
the roadway outside their
country school.
Suddenly a low ripple of
laughter, quickly rising to riotous
mirth, swept along their ranks.
The Prime Ministerial party
looked up in surprise to see a
horse and cart, from the back
of which several unmistakable
containers protruded, bowling
unconcernedly along the road
towards them.
It was no moment for the
inculcation in the child mind of
the dignity of high office.
Menzies dissolved in laughter
with the rest; and, such is human
nature, the children will probably
always remember him more
warmly because of the incident.
A few days before this
encounter, the Deputy-Leader of
the Opposition had announced
his intention of “shadowing” the
Prime Minister round Australia
during the forthcoming Senate
campaign. Reporting the Tas-
manian incident, therefore, a
Sydney newspaper quoted an
unidentified member of the party
as remarking:
“I didn’t know Arthur Calwell
was shadowing the Prime
Minister as closely as this.”
Calwell, whose sense of humor
is one of the best in Parliament,
is said to have enjoyed the crack
as much as anyone.
Another example of the Prime
Minister being caught at a dis-
advantage occurred about the
same time.
A letter arrived in Canberra
from the public-relations officer
at Madame Tussaud’s, the
famous London waxworks, re-
questing photographs of Mr.
Menzies so that the model of him
which had been in the waxworks
for 12 years could be “brought
up to date.”
When first tackled on the
subject the Prime Minister was
eloquent and precise. He
indicated his conviction that the
wax in the existing model would
be put to better use if it were
melted down and turned into
candles. He was certainly not
going to waste time posing for
any new photographs.
It took about three months to
get this decision reversed.
Eventually he was prevailed upon
by warnings that the effigy at that
time on public view in the
general section of the waxworks
was so bad that in the opinion of
those who had seen it it would
have been more appropriately
exhibited in the Chamber of
Horrors.
This made the Prime Minister
wince, and he grumblingly sub-
mitted to some special photo-
graphs, which were so unflatter-
ing that those who saw them
began to doubt whether the cure
might not be worse than the
disease.
However, they were sent off
to London with a request that
they be destroyed after use. A
week or two later back came a
letter from Madame Tussaud’s:
Thank you very much indeed for
the photographs, which are abso-
lutely excellent.
If it is possible, however, w©
should like to retain them. Every
three months the head and hands
are removed from each figure in
the exhibition. The hair is sham-
pooed, waved and re-set and the
head and hands carefully washed
and re-colored. I am sure you will
appreciate that the photographs are
essential for these periodic beauty-
treatments to ensure that the hair is
correctly dressed
There was only one word with
which to react. “Touche!"
exclaimed the Prime Minister,
roaring with laughter at the joke
so plainly on himself.
Yet another instance of the
Prime Minister’s capacity to take
a joke against himself occurred
on the evening of the poll for
the 1951 referendum on
Communism.
The Menzieses had arranged
a dinner-party at a Melbourne
hotel. After dinner his guests
went upstairs with him to listen
to the progress-count over the
radio. Things went badly for the
Government, which, at the outset
of the campaign, had appeared
certain to win its case, and as he
sat listening to the flow of results
which spelt out his own defeat
the Prime Minister must have
experienced great bitterness.
It was just before 10 p.m.
when he conceded defeat, stood
up and turned off the wireless.
There was an embarrassed silence
in the room. Then Mr. Sydney
Menzies, the Prime Minister s
brother, spoke.
Sydney Menzies is the youngest
of the four Menzies brothers.
He possesses what, in the
vernacular, is known as a “dead-
pan” face, which masks a sense
of humor hardly less sparkling
than that of his more famous
brother.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” he
began. “This, as we all recognise,
is a very solemn and serious
occasion.”
He paused. Those around him
wondered what on earth was
coming. In most of them a sense
of ’ acute discomfort began to
develop.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” con-
tinued brother Sydney, his voice
rising, but his eye twinkling,
.“tonight I am irresistibly
reminded of the words of a late
and deep admirer of our Prime
Minister: ‘ln the world today,
there are only three great states-
men. One is Winston Churchill.
The other is Franklin Roosevelt.
And the third,’ ” pause, “ ‘is
Robert! ’
“Ladies and gentlemen,” con-
tinued Sydney. “This third great
statesman of the world stands
WAITING THEIR CHANCE
BULLETIN cartoon comment of February 25. 1953. when the first m fruits of the Menzies Government’s
national-recovery programme were becoming evident.
before you now. Again, he has
achieved the impossible
Again”
But his voice was drowned by
a spontaneous shout of laughter
from the Prime Minister and all
his guests. Before it stopped
some, including the Prime
Minister himself, were nearly
crying with their mirth.
And so, instead of brooding
on his defeat, Menzies was able
to put it into the background
of his mind for the rest of the
evening, entertain his guests with
lively good-humor, and leave
remorse and post-mortems till
another day.
Probably, however, the best
proof of Menzies’s ability to
laugh* at himself is the way in
which he has succeeded in taking
the sting out of the nickname
which a few years ago so
damaged him: “Pig-iron Bob.”
Politically speaking, you might
say, he has managed to turn pig-
iron into gold!
Thousands of Australians have
now heard him deal humorously
with the old jibe when it is flung
at him at election meetings.
And sometimes he doesn’t wait
for anyone else to bring it up—
as in Hobart during the 1953
Senate campaign, when he
paused in a speech at the Town
Hall to refer to some notes on
the lectern beside him.
The printing was too small for
him to read, and a momentary
silence fell as he fumbled for his
glasses.
But Menzies is too much the
master of technique on the
rostrum to permit such a silence
to continue,
“Poor old Pig-iron,” he
murmured into the microphone.
“He has to use glasses now.”
The shout of laughter which
greeted him was as good as the
best political point he made that
day.
Menzies and the Press
'THERE have been few failures
in Menzies’s life with more
far-reaching consequences than
his inability to sustain con-
sistently good relations with the
newspapers.
His political opponents have
long found it tactically sound to
complain that Menzies has
always had the support of the
Australian Press. It is a foolish
generalisation.
Editorially, and over a given
period of time, it is true that
Labor Governments probably
get an even worse trouncing
editorially from most newspapers
in Australia than non-Labor
Governments. But the degree
of the latter’s alleged immunity
from the strictures of the Press
is grossly exaggerated.
Has any Labor Government
been more fiercely attacked than
the Menzies Government by the
Sydney Press in 1951 for what
the “Sydney Morning Herald”
headlined as the “Horror
Budget”?
Anyone who has worked for
a non-Labor Government in a
Press-relations capacity knows
that there is not a newspaper in
Australia which supports such a
Government automatically or
uncritically. That is as it should
be, of course.
It sometimes happens that a
few weeks before an election,
sections of the Press tone down
their animosity and, editorially,
switch to the steady support of
a Government which they have
been harrying for years. But
they cannot undo in a month the
work of years, especially since
criticism which springs from the
mouths of a non-Labor Govern-
ment’s so-called “friends” strikes
deeper and more authentically
among many electors than
similar attacks upon Labor.
As liaison-officer between the
Prime Minister and the news-
papers I was, with one or two
exceptions, given the utmost
possible goodwill and co-
operation by my fellow-Press-
men. But for Menzies I always
sensed the personal and political
unfriendliness, not to say open
hostility, of a whole host of
newspapermen, from proprietors
and editors down to reporters.
Menzies himself must bear a


fair proportion of the blame. He
too often trails his coat before
journalists, too often expresses
his contempt for their methods
of news-gathering and news-
presentation, too rarely tries to
help them in their work.
The natural consequence is
that Australian newspapermen,
as a class, generally display to-
wards him more resentment than
do most other sections of the
community—a resentment, it
should be emphasised, which
does not necessarily bear any
relation to political considera-
tions.
My own conviction is that the
old legends of Menzies’s
“arrogance,” “intolerance” and
“aloofness” have been promoted
to an excessive degree by the
fact that he almost invariably
displays to newspapermen a
facet of his character which is
far less in evidence in his deal-
ings with other people.
In criticising him the Pressman
reports what he himself sees and
experiences. But what he sees
and experiences is very frequently
untypical, as thousands of
citizens in all States have learned
for themselves as a result of the
Prime Minister’s “Meet the
People” tours of the past two
years.
One important cause of
friction between Menzies and
the Press has been the former’s
customary refusal to compromise
in his own administrative
methods as a concession to
normal Press requirements.
It has, for instance, always
irked him to have criticism, how-
ever empty, headlined against
him when his own reasoned
exposition of a case has been
"buried” half-way down a page
because it did not contain a
good enough “news-lead” or a
generalisation as picturesque as
some which had proceeded from
the mouths of Opposition
speakers without the current
responsibilities of government.
When he questioned this treat-
ment he would be advised that
exposition ought to be framed so
that it was news; in other words,
he argued, he was being told that
Governments should modify
their actions and design them to
lit the language of news in order
that appropriate headlines might
be captured and people influ-
enced accordingly.
Such a policy, consciously
adopted by the Government of
the day—and indeed, it is
adopted by some Ministers and
by members on both sides of the
House who are determined to get
the best possible “Press”—might
be described as one aspect of
good public-relations. Especi-
ally is this so if the timing of
important speeches and state-
ments is deliberately related to
Press edition-“deadlines.”
Menzies objected to such
methods of ordering his Adminis-
tration to suit the Press.
The same sort of difficulties
cropped up in respect of ordinary
Cabinet business. In most cases
when Cabinet has concluded a
meeting of some hours Menzies
considers that the minutes of the
meeting should first be checked
and carefully studied, and any
decision which it is proposed to
announce should be expressed
only in the most carefully con-
sidered language.
Pressure of other Government
business may prevent this being
done immediately. So, unless
announcement of a decision is
urgent, the Prime Minister is
content to postpone it for a day
or two, and attend to more urgent
business.
In the eyes of the Press, how-
ever, a decision is news immedi-
ately it is made, and it is a
newspaper’s duty to print that
news immediately. In their eyes,
it is the duty of authority to
make it known immediately.
Right or wrong, this attitude
of the Press is a fact of modern
life all over the world. News-
papers are fortified in their main-
tenance of it by a famous editorial
pronouncement of the London
1 Times” in 1852 during an argu-
ment between that newspaper
and the then Foreign Secretary,
Lord Palmerston, on the subject
of the relationship between
newspapers and Governments in
a free country:
“The duty of the journalist,”
said “The Times,” “is the same
as that of the historian —to seek
out the truth, above all things,
and to present to his readers not
such things as statecraft would
wish them to know but the truth
as near as he can attain it.”
In defending his own attitude
Menzies faces the difficulty that
in the time of Chifley and Curtin
most Cabinet decisions which
could be made public were
announced speedily and
methodically shortly after
Cabinet itself rose —and some-
times even while Cabinet was
still sitting.
Delays in official announce-
ment lead to other causes of
recrimination. Determined Press-
men extract unofficially from
Ministers or officials the news
which Menzies denies them
officially. Sometimes this
method of news-gathering leads
to the garbling of the facts, and
everyone concerned is embar-
rassed and irritated.
Repeatedly Menzies has been
urged to compromise, and to
meet the Press half-way. His
reply is usually something like
this:
“Why should I change my
policy and my principles because
some sneak, whoever he may be,
wants to curry a little favor with
the Press and, for his own selfish
ends, slips them some informa-
tion which he is on oath not to
divulge?”
But in sticking uncompromis-
ingly to his principles Menzies
simply increases the inaccuracies
and other faults which he dis-
likes so much. Journalists resort
more and more to speculation.
And so the more difficulties
which authority makes for the
Press the more it tends to
increase the irresponsibility of
which it is afraid. It is a
wretched, cumulative process.
On this subject of newspaper
accuracy and responsibility, the
late Sir Keith Murdoch made a
very candid, practical and wise
comment :
“A newspaper,” he said, “is a
responsible production called
upon to serve the public good
above all other consideration. It
cannot be perfect, because per-
fection is not within the reach
of any single mortal, let alone
within the reach of an associated
team of mortals. We make our
mistakes, we have our
inaccuracies, and we may have
been affected by passions and
prejudices. But so far as these
things can be exorcised, they are
exorcised, and we try always to
serve the public with truth,
sincerity and a vigorous regard
for its interests.”
As a liberal, Menzies takes
human nature for what it is,
accepts its weaknesses, and makes
the best out of current raw
material. But, perhaps because
of the terrific drubbing which he
personally took from the Press
in 1940 and 1941, he is much
more intolerant of shortcomings
in Pressmen than in pther human
beings.
The truth is that, if modem
newspapers have defects, a very
considerable proportion of them
proceed directly from the
immense technical difficulties
associated with their production.
The daily publication of a
newspaper, containing hundreds
of thousands of words, and
featuring reports of events which
have taken place all over the
earth in the preceding few hours
—and sometimes only a few
minutes before “edition-time”—
is one of the wonders of the
modern world. It isn’t surpris-
ing that mistakes occur.
If popular newspapers changed
their policy, waited days for
official confirmation of all
stories, and filled their columns
only with such things as verbatim
reports o f Parliamentary
speeches, however sincere,
eloquent and important those
speeches might be, the chances
are that the papers would quickly
cease to be popular, and would
watch their circulation drop
precipitately.
Menzies, however, must be
given credit for the candor of his
EMBARRASSING
"The ‘Sydney Morning Herald’ has shown intense opposition to the Federal Government’s
economic policy.”
BULLETIN cartoon comment of March 26, 1952, when the Menzies Government’s national-recovery
programme was in its early stages.
approach to the Press. He is no
hypocrite. He realises fully its
importance. He praises the Press
when he thinks praise is due, and
he criticises it openly when he
finds fault.
Too many public men fawn
upon the journalist in his
presence, curry what favor with
him they can to his face, and
bitterly disparage him when his
back is turned.
To serve a Government as a
Press-liaison , officer is to
sympathise keenly with it when
its purposes and achievements are
misrepresented in the Press, either
through accident or otherwise;
but it is also to shudder at the
thought of the consequences if
the inquisitive, inconvenient
journalist were removed from
the scene altogether.
For politicians and public
servants alike are continually
beset by the temptation to sup-
press or delay, not always for
reasons of the public good, news
and information the publication
of which will almost certainly
cause them trouble.
Asa senior member of the
Australian diplomatic service
said recently:
“One of the prices which we
pay for Parliamentary democracy
is constant denigration of our
leaders. We should not, perhaps,
have to do so; but it is much
better than the other sort of
‘democracy.’ ”
His Sense of Humor
T}EW public men have been
-*■ gifted with a sense of humor
more damaging, politically
speaking, than Menzies’s.
His sometimes dry, sometimes
mordant, sometimes waspish—
but never dull—tongue flicks out
involuntarily in the service of
his wit at a dozen inconvenient
moments every week.
He has learned these days to
control it more effectively than
at any other stage of his career,
But whenever a potential victim
exposes his flank the Prime
Minister’s political colleagues
still catch their breath in appre-
hension lest the temptation prove
too great for him,
Yet for every occasion that
Menzies has given offence by his
wit, there are two on Which,
through misrepresentation of it
subsequently, he has endured the
equivalent of character-assassina-
bon. How often, with dead-pan
face » has he not during a poll-
tical meeting made a brief excur-
s i° n into the realms of whimsy,
hugely appreciated by his audi-
ence at the time, but reported
next bay in cold print, with all
bia humor filtered out of it, as a
ser i° us and significant “exposure
bte real Menzies”?
Menzies’s tragedy is that of a
man ca P a ble on the platform of
nuances of humor and irony
which, if comprehended, are
delicious, yet which, if taken too
literally, are disastrous to the
reputation of one who depends
on popular approbation for poli-
tical survival.
a perfect little example of this
occurrec j a t Sydney University in
August, 1952, when the Prime
Minister had conferred upon him
the honorary degree of Doctor
0 f Laws. In a brief speech
acknowledging the honor, he
began:
“It is a very agreeable thing
for a Prime Minister, once in a
while, to find himself in a large
company”—at this point, his lips
twitched into a smile —“ ... a
large company at once so respec-
table and so decorative.”
The manner of the delivery of
that sentence was the essence of
ẁ
ẃ


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
wmMm
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage or
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS . . . NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
Te treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
w
YOU CAN INSTAI. IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
—— DISTRIBUTORS -
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.. 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), O.M.L. Building, King William
St.. Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm - Crosb y & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
C' T. See Kce, Badolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore; British and Eastern Ltd., Baffles Place.
: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St..
Auckland.
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND;
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
fr *
nC IMP '&Jf
S'
li?
•iN I
ViUx»? y^ , \ \
Elastrator, we merrily sin g,
Ma\es us happy as birdies in Spring.
7{o wonder we're joyous
Blowflies don’t annoy us.
And we really don’t notice the ring.
Use the humane way of marking and tailing the
"Elastrator" way. No set-back . , . Insignificant shock
_ . , Fly-strike practically eliminated.
Elastrator Instrument .. ~ £6/6/-, plus freight
Elastrator Rings (500) 30/-, plus freight
Elastrator Loader £5/5/-. plus freight
For Marking and Tailing Lambs
. For Marking Calves
Available from all Wool Houses, Stock and
Station Agents, and Stores throughout Aus-
tralia—a product 'of Elastrator (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., 125 William Street, Melbourne.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Feeding Beef Cattle
“T F” • Every now and again
meone' is struck with the
brilliant thought that cattle m
Australia, as they reach the con-
sumer, are a P rett y pOO |j f d
compared to the stall-tea
beauties in the Uiuted Kingdom
for instance, or the P r °f UCtS
intensive grain - fee(^ m S
America. It all seems delightfully
simple. Just shut them up ,n
yards—like pigs—pump-the feed
into them, and you have prime,
early-maturing beef.
But the problem, of course, is
not simple. Grain in the United
States is comparatively cheap,
prices for beef comparatively
dear. Here, even pig-breeders
have found that the margin of
profit between costs of feed and
saleyard prices is slim and vari-
able, and, generally speaking,
pig-raising is best practised as a
sideline, using feed grown on the
farm and by-products such as
skim-milk.
Again, supposing an enterpris-
ing beef-conditioner does turn-
out reasonable numbers of prime
bullocks, where will he get
premium prices—taking into
consideration not only cost of
feed, but capital outlay in yards,
special equipment and labor?
But that is not to say that
something will not be done,
along these, or similar lines.
Another approach is by means of
controlled grazing. Since
pasture-feeding is the normal
perhaps the only economical-
method of fattening cattle, it
seems reasonable to improve that
pasture. Pasture - improvement,
small paddocks, rotational-
grazing, supplementary-feeding
and so on are all practised by
dairyfarmers; but not to the
same degree in Australia as in
New Zealand. And, as regards
beef-cattle, the surface is almost
unscratched.
Here again the controlling
factor is costs. A dairyfarmer
with a limited acreage can afford
to sink a good deal of capital
per acre on the strength of his
monthly cheque. The grower of
beef-cattle, with nothing like the
same return for his investment,
or the regularity of return, can’t.
Here, too, the field is un-
developed. Geddes, on the
Sydney University Farm, has
demonstrated on a commercial
scale what can be done with land
formerly considered poor (or
useless) for pasture-improvement.
Photographs of this adjust-
able sheep-loading ramp on
L. Richardson’s property at
Garfield (Vic) give a fair
idea of its construction;
diagrams and specifications
can be found in the March
issue of the Victorian
Department of Agriculture
Journal.
The key, in this case, was water
—a little at the right time. By
turning part of it into a catch-
ment-area sufficient water was
trapped to give the farm (lying
in the low-rainfall dip between
the coast and the Blue Moun-
tains) a carrying-capacity equal
to the best N.Z. dairyfarms.
Strip-grazing by means of
electric - fences and spray-
irrigation, combined with fairly
heavy top-dressing with super.,
made this possible after the prime
requisite water was made
available. And, of course, this
is a County of Cumberland
dairyfarm, where the return
justifies the expenditure.
But the possibilities for beef
are there, in this technique or
in modifications of it: and if it
is ever developed it will mean
that the southern part of Aus-
tralia will carry a tremendous
number of cattle, compared with
the present population. Before
that happens, probably, some-
thing will have to be done about
premium prices for choice beef ;
and breeding, progeny-testing
and artificial-insemination (one
of the advantages of which, in
its later phases, is the fact that a
sort of bank can be kept of the
seed of proved sires) will all play
important parts.
In the meantime a letter
received by J. L. McDonald, of
Dalgety’s, from John Niven, the
Perthshire (Scotland) Aberdeen-
Angus breeder, strikes a disquiet-
Left shows ramp in position
for loading sheep into
bottom tier of truck; right,
ramp is raised to load them
into top.
ing note. In a generally optimistic
account of the outlook for cattle-
men in the U.K. following de-
rationing, he mentions a conver-
sation with one of London’s
biggest meat-importers, who said
emphatically that he did not take
Australia into consideration as a
source “as they are breeding the
wrong kind of beef for Britain.”
It is, after all, an old story.
Writer can remember much the
same sort of thing being said
about 1936. But while pastoral
conditions and transport facilities
remain as they are in the major
cattle-growing areas, nothing on
a scale large enough to interest
overseas buyers can be done
about it. Improvement, if it
comes, will be felt first in the
local market.
In the meantime research into
the feeding of cattle continues.
C.5.1.R.0. for some time has
been experimenting at Talbingo
(N.S.W.), with the co-operation
of the owner, G. H. Hooper. Dr.
M. C. Franklin, famous for his
tests in the drought-feeding of
sheep, has compiled three leaflets
—“Feeding Standards for Beef
Cattle” (leaflet No. 7), “Feeding
Trials with Beef Cattle” (leaflet
No. 8) and “Feeding Beef Cattle
for Show” (leaflet No. 9) —in
collaboration with various Gov-
ernment Departments of Agri-
culture, the Meat Board and
private breeders such as D. A.
Pratten, of the Turee Hereford
Stud, Cassilis (N.S.W.), and
I. M. Macready, of the Bucka-
mell Poll Hereford Stud, Uralla
(N.S.W.). They are well worth
reading. A little long to be
summarised, extracts from them
will be printed from time to time
on this page.
April Sowing
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture recommends the follow-
ing for sowing in their respective
districts for April:
Beans (broad): Coast and
inland. Cole’s Dwarf Prolific,
Early Long Pod, Broad Windsor.
Beans (French): Far North
Coast, Tweed Wonder, Hawkes-
bury Wonder, Brown Beauty.
Beetroot: Coast, Early
Wonder (Rapid Red), Detroit
Dark Red Topmarket, Crosby’s
Egyptian.
Cabbage: Coast, Jersey Wake-
field, Enkhuizen Glory, Copen-
hagen Market, Golden Acre.
Chinese Cabbage: Coast and
inland, Wong Bok, Pe Tsai.
Carrots: Coast (Gosford and
north), Red Core Chantenay, St.
Valery Intermediate, Danvers
Half Long, Top weight.
Champion (Peerless).
Chives: All districts.
Herbs (all types): Coast and
inland.
Leeks: Coast and inland,
Musselburg, London Flag.
Lettuce: Coast and inland,
Imperial Triumph, Imperial 615.
Onions: All districts, Aus-
tralian Brown, White Imperial,
Hunter River Brown, Hunter
River White, Prizetaker, Sweet
Spanish Valencia, Early Grano,
Odorless.
Parsnips: Coast (Gosford and
north). Hollow Crown.
Peas: Coast, W. F. Massey,
Greenfeast.
Radish: All districts, Long
Scarlet, White Icicle, French
Breakfast.
Shallots: All districts, Small
French.
Silver-beet: Coast, Fordhook
Giant, Lucullus, Dark Green
Broad Ribbed.
Strawberries: All districts,
CreswelTs Seedling, Fendelcino.
Turnips: Coast (white turnips),
Purple Top White Globe, White
Stone; (swede-turnips). Winter
Green Top, Champion Purple
Top.
Tomatoes: Coast (warm,
frost-free areas only), Break o’
Day, Rouge de Marmande, Red
Cloud.
Sowing Tip
“C.C.”: Mixing of pasture-
seed with superphosphate for
sowing by drill or direct dropper
always posed a problem because
only a small quantity was
required and it had to be sown
immediately after mixing to
prevent damage to the seed. My
wife’s contribution is the best
solution I’ve struck.
Take an old wheat-sack, pour
in half a paper-bag of super.,
add a dipper of seed, the dipper
being previously weighed and
marked according to rate of
sowing. Hold neck of the bag
with one hand and tumble the
bag several times on the ground
before pouring into drill-box.
Seed and super, mix well, no
equipment is necessary, and a lot
of time and bullocking is saved.
About Myxomatosis
“Tyabb”: Myxomatosis has
hit France harder than England,
where the virus seems to be con-
fined to the south-eastern
counties. The British Ministry
of Agriculture is now attempting
to eradicate the disease, with
qualifications for the future. The
Australian experiment has such
significance, and Press reports
are often so vague or so sensa-
tional, that a summary of the
history of the disease may be of
interest to Bulletin readers.
Myxomatosis cuniculi Sanarelli
1898 is its accepted scientific
name, and indicates when and
by whom it was first recorded
among domestic rabbits in South
America, During the next three
decades the vims was cultured
and studied, and within this
period a new strain appeared
independently in California.
This new form was suggested for
use in Australia.
In 1942 Dr. Aragao made two
important discoveries: that the
native brush-rabbit of Brazil
(closely related to the European
wild rabbit) carried antibodies
in its blood against the virus—
which indicated that it had
passed through a mild attack
before acquiring immunity, and
that rabbit and disease had
reached an equilibrium, as
humans do with other poxes,
such as cowpox —and that
myxomatosis could be communi-
cated by flying insects ; which,
in turn, indicated that most other
South American mammals had
been infected for centuries, but


Property For Sale
BAYVIEW—on glorious Pittwater —a gen-
tleman’s home in perfect repair, set
back in f acre of lovely lawns and
gardens, cannot be built out. A two
storey home consisting of 4 Bedrooms,
2 Bathrooms, spacious Lounge and Dining
Boom, large Kitchen, Patio, Sun Deck
(upper storey). Separate Maids’ Quarters.
Garage. Wall-to-wall carpets, Yen. blinds,
refrig., h.w.s., telephone. Sep. tank.
Launch available. Private sale, £9500,
or near offer. Owner must sell. —-
RUSSELL, XW 9215; after six p.m.,
XW 9075. 7 Mona Vale Road, Mona Vale.
Here’s something really
new for
THE MAN ON THE LAND
BARNARDS MIXED
MESH WIRENETTING
Made in England, Galvanised
after weaving, of a quality
second to none.
Save money on it and on its
freight from the City.
Save labour erecting a lighter
but as efficient a netting.
In one weave of 42in. you can
have IJin. mesh for 21in. be-
low 2Jin. mesh for 21in. or a
combination of widths of each
to suit your taste.
If your usual Dealer has not
commenced stocking Barnards
Mixed Mesh Netting yet, ask
us for the name and address
of your nearest supplier.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY
G.P.O. Box 3776. Phone M 6456
S3NI9N3 d VT
2/S model, 1 5 h.p. 4 stroke
air-cooled, £39/17/6.
4/3 model, 2-3 h.p. 4 stroke
air-cooled, £75.
J.A.P, spares stocked.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Misseiulen Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
POST COUPON BELOW NOW
FOR DETAILS OF THE
Most Amazing
Garden Tractor-ho
ever introduced!
LOW
PRICED
* kA. c n ; //_
soys Mr. f. Dominello, of
Narrabeen, "for preparing seed beds,
turning in weeds, cleaning up headlands,
spraying, etc., on my 16-acre property
at Narrabeen.'
ri
HOWARD
*
Until now, most garden tractors have
been too light, too low powered, for
Australian conditions'. That’s why the
HOWARD 4.2 h.p. 'TERRIER’ has
proved such an amazing success! Offer-
ing more power . . . sturdier con-
struction . . . and a wide range of
attachments big enough to do a worth-
while job ... it is head and shoulders
above any similar type of tractor on
the market today! And made in
Australia by the huge HOWARD
organisation, it is lower priced, too!
Post coupon below now for fuff story
of this amazing mechanical handyman!
POST THIS COUPON
TO-DAY _
&
Trailer truck attachment
hauls over half a ton inclu-
ding driver. Spray equip-
ment also available.
Mower attachment will
make short work of long-
est grass and weeds. 3 ft.
width of cut.
ALSO Flexible Drive for portable
post hole borer, shearing outfit,
etc.
Tool-bar with cultivating tynes,
weed cutters, furrower and fur-
row coverer, biller, etc.
Power Pulley, standard equip-
ment for operating chaffcutier,
grister, etc.
Other attachments immediately
available include duster, exten-
sion wheels, wheel weights, etc*
HOWARD AUTO-CDLTIVATORS LTD.
Windsor Road, Northmead, N.S.W.
Pjease send me immediately full details of your new HOWARD
'Terrier* Rotary Hoe and Garden Tractor.
NAME— ;
ADDRESS...
Acreage 814/4 ■
■ PLEASE USE BLOCK LETTERS TO ENSURE CORRECT DELIVERY —— l
HW6S
had proved to be refractory
(immune).
Our rabbit, as a new host, has
had no time to gain immunity.
But the fact that a native rabbit
can become immune, while all
other animals are naturally
resistant, emphasises the import-
ance of Aragao’s work.
The effects of myxomatosis on
Australian rabbits are drastic
enough. But everything points
to a decline in lethality. Most
disease-organisms that kill on
such a scale destroy themselves,
As the host’s resistance increases,
virulence of the disease decreases,
until the two live happily
together.
Tests have shown that in one
summer 5000 infected rabbits
were reduced to 50 ; by the begin-
ning of the next summer's
epidemic the population had
increased, by breeding and move-
ment, to 550. At the end of the
second summer 77 rabbits were
left, all over one year old, all
fertile, and all immune. And it
has been proved on a small scale
that these survivors can pass
some of their immunity to their
progeny.
Further, myxoma virus of
much reduced virulence has been
recovered from such survivors,
This virus of low lethality, if
spread, would immunise rabbits
against a deadlier kind, as vaccina-
tion protects humans from small-
pox. At present there is a period
of adjustment, and a balance
should be reached within a few
years. But even if these, as it
were, protecting strains become
widespread, more lethal strains
could be recovered. It is under-
stood this has already happened
in Australia.
In short, the evidence suggests
that myxomatosis will continue
to spread, but unless more lethal
virus is introduced from time to
time the rabbits will probably
increase to their former numbers.
Progeny-testing for Bacon
“Fons”; The British Pig
Breeders’ Association has a
progeny-testing station, and the
results of the first tests have been
reported in “The Times.” It is
hoped that the scheme, when
developed, will enable British
growers to compete on more even
terms with Danish and other
European producers of quality
baconers.
Breeders send for testing four
from a litter (two hogs and two
gilts) of any of the bacon-breeds ;
an important qualification is that
they must be from a litter from
which at least eight have been
reared. They must be less than
nine weeks old and have a
minimum weight of 301 b. After
the tests have been completed
each breeder receives details of
the speed of growth, ratio of
food-conversion (amount of food
consumed for each pound gained
in weight), killing-out per cent.,
and per cent, of cured bacon.
By comparing these figures with
the average for the breed, the
breeder is able to get a fairly
accurate idea of the usefulness
of his boar.
Initial results are encouraging.
The first litter showed a food-
conversion ratio of 3 : 3, which
compares favorably with the
Danish ratio of 3 : 15, and more
than favorably with that of
4 ; 13, the ratio when the Danes
began progeny-testing 40 years
ago. The daily liveweight gain
of the litter was 1.191 b. for the
173 days from birth to slaughter.
There are plans to have similar
testing-stations in various parts
of Britain.
In Brief
British sales of tops and yarns
to Germany have dropped
(“Times” report).
* * *
At the annual conference of
the Graziers’ Association of
N.S.W. a motion recommending
amalgamation of Woolgrowers’
Council and Graziers’ Federal
Council was put to a show of
hands: those for it arguing that
many members belonged to both
shows, and that there was a
constant overlapping of func-
tions, need for joint-statements,
etc.; those against it saying that
the men in charge of the Wool-
growers’ Council should be wool-
growers. Motion defeated, 62 to
33.
Graziers’ Association of
N.S.W. wants a regulation
brought in that all branding-fluid
(for sheep) shall carry manufac-
turer’s guarantee that it will
clean-scour and not damage
wool.
“Unless something is done to
encourage the production of beef
in Australia, then in 10 to 15
years’ time we might be import-
ing meat.” —G. E. Kirkby, of
Moree (N.S.W.), speaking at the
graziers’ conference.
* *
Premiere of film “Worms in
Sheep” at the Shell Theatrette,
Sydney. Part I shows life-cycles
(in technicolor) of the parasites ;
Part II shows tests by C.5.1.R.0.
with Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries’ new liquid phenothiazine
preparation, claimed to be 90 to
100 per cent, effective against
stomach, black-scour and nodule
worms (result of a new grinding
technique developed by 1.C.1.
following C.5.1.R.0. discovery
that only smallest particles can
be ingested by worms). Film
goes to various graziers’ associa-
tions for showing around the
country.
* * *
An unsuspected aspect of
R.A.F, activity—pig-farming—
came to light in the Auditor-
General’s report, in turn reported
in “The Times.” Year’s profit
from Dennis —£261,347. Now
the A.-G. wants to know if work
done by airmen on the project is
entirely “recreational.”
* * ♦
’Hoppers still active in Tam-
worth, Young, Wagga and
Gundagai districts (N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture report);
some activity around Forbes and
Condobolin; very light hatch-
ings around Canonbar, Hay,
Dubbo and Brewarrina. Flying
swarms sighted north of Orange,
and a big one north of Narrabri
—believed to be visitors from
Queensland.
* * *
Estimated three million cases
of Australian apples for U.K.
this year.
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
Immediate prospects for rain (of any consequence) over
eastern Australia are weak, except in tropical Queensland,
where further rains are probable. Some rain for Easter in
New South Wales is likely. About April 24 rain is likely;
also early in May up to the middle of the month.
These May rains should be general; in the south they
should be the beginning of good seasonal rains, though
without last year’s floods. The idea that a long, dry spell
is setting-in in Victoria is without any sign of support from
the cycles, and country people need not be at all anxious
in parts further north. However, this rain is the last of the
season, and the cycles show a rather long, dry, cold spell,
and so far there are no sunspots to show the onset of the
new epoch which might modify it. All that has happened
is quite in accordance with the cyclical sequence, though
slightly altered by the recent sunspot outbreak, but not in
any fundamental way.


o
®sii
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
to the late KING GEORGE 71
Tanqueray Gordon St Cto. Ltd*
Gordons
StandsSufA&msL
Between
Ourselves
ŵ
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
a nice man, Mr. Carson, We’re
all so shocked. We can hardly
believe it. Even when”
“All right,” I cut-in. “I know
all that. Stop moaning and tell
me what happened.”
Droopy draws himself up and
starts to put on a wounded look.
I reach over the desk and grab
him by the coat-lapels and jerk
him forward.
“Talk!”
He puts everything he’s got
into breaking loose. He don’t
break loose.
“Talk!”
“He was coming from Allen-
dale. He went out there this
morning. Oh business. Just
after nine o’clock —a little over
an hour ago a truck-driver
found him. He must have had
a puncture. A front wheel.
He’d jacked the car up and got
the wheel off. The jack must
have slipped. Anyway, when
the truckie found him his head
was pinned where the hub came
down. Cracked his skull, they
say.”
I’d let him loose by this. He
stood back, pulling his little
coat straight. So I shouldn’t
have got rough with him, maybe,
but things seemed to be going
wrong fast ever since I hit this
Murrayford and I reckon my
temper got short.
Now I’m stuck in the place
and got about twelve frogskins
and Carson gets himself killed
fixing a tyre and whatever he
had for me isn’t, and it’ll cost
me dough to go back where I
come from.
Way I see it I can go back to
the Crown and get a night’s
sleep and fade out on a train
tomorrow or maybe thumb a
lift on some car or truck head-
ing east.
It’s all kind of sudden and
sits me back on my heels. I
lean on the desk and look at
the floor and somehow it don’t
seem right to just walk out
and forget poor old Carson.
Maybe I ought to see somebody
or something. You’re in this
game you’re on your own and
Carson dead means there’s no
job and every hour I stay in this
Murrayford dump costs me
dough. So I ought to blow. But
it don’t seem right, somehow.
I take a look at Droopy. He’s
standing there. Maybe I
oughtn’t to got rough with him.
So what? You get rough with
a hotel-boy there’s one way to
anoint his wounds and it isn’t
with sulpha-drugs.
I get some silver from my
pocket and put it on the desk.
“What they done with
Carson?”
He’s anointed, all right.
“Oh, they took him to the
hospital, I understand. There’s
a morgue there. There’s another
at the police-station. The police
and his secretary and Mr. Honey
are up in Mr. Carson’s room
now.”
“Where’s that?”
“It’s a suite. Number 14 on
the third floor. The elevator on
the left is on automatic, sir.”
This is the first time Carson
ever sent for me and when I got
there he was dead. So I go up
to the third floor. Because
maybe it’ll satisfy me, or maybe
I ain’t so tough I can just walk
out and leave it, or maybe—oh,
hell with it.
The door of Suite 14 is open
about an inch or so. I push it
and walk in. It’s a sitting-room.
On the right another door, shut,
leads to the bedroom.
There’s a round table in the
middle of the sitting-room, a
couple of armchairs, three or
four ordinary chairs here and
there, a desk by the big
curtained-windows, a couple of
table-lamps, a radio and so
forth.
A cop in uniform stands with
his back to the window. He’s
facing me. Sitting on the arm
of one of the big chairs is a cove
I’ve seen before —the tall, well-
dressed cove who bumped me in
the airport-lounge. I look at
him and he looks right back and
way down somewhere the bells
start ringing but damned if I
can place him.
Back to me, sitting at the
desk, is a woman with a scarf
over her head. Standing beside
her, looking at a lot of papers
and things, is a grey-haired,
hefty coot in a dark suit with
plainclothes-police stamped all
over him.
He turns and looks at me and
says, “Who are you?”
The woman turns and looks
at me.
“Not Ross, Miss Martin,” I
tell her. “You made a blue
about that.”
She don’t say anything. Her
face isn’t stormy any more. It’s
white and shocked, and she’s
been crying. They’re shocked
isn’t the time to make passes so
I give it away. But I get a little
stir in me. Because she must
be Carson’s secretary. Maybe
I’d see her again. Maybe coming
up here could lead to something,
after all.
“What can we do for you?”
says the old cop.
I give Miss Martin away,
temporary, and look at him.
Carson didn’t want me to con-
tact him openly. No way to con-
tact him at all, now. It’ll have
to wait till I get to wherever he’s
gone.
So it doesn’t matter who
knows about me.
“The name’s Delaney,” I tell
him. “Carson sent for me. I
got in tonight by plane. I’ve
worked for him, different times.
He sent for me. I got held up,
earlier.” I give Miss Martin a
look. “I only just heard. Right
about him being dead?”
The old cop looks down at
his hands and then at me.
“Right enough,” he says.
Miss Martin turns back to the
desk and puts her head down
and cries some.
“We’re pretty busy now,” the
old cop says. “Maybe you could
look us up in the morning.”
“Yes,” I says. “I’m staying at
the Crown.”
I turned to go out. The well-
dressed coot clears his throat.
“Where’d I bump you be-
fore?” I ask.
“Sorry,” he says. “I have no
recollection.”
“Maybe you was in the
Army?”
He shook his head, looking
sorrowful,
“Was you up in the islands in
the war, any place?”
“No.”
“Well, it was some place?”
“Sorry.”
I go out. But the bells are
ringing, just the same,
I won’t be looking anyone up
in the morning. Because Car-
son’s dead and whatever job he
had for me is wiped-out and all
I got to do is fade. All Carson
is now is a grief for any rela-
tives that liked him, and maybe
a woman or two, and he’s a
case for the police-accident
statistics, and meat for some
lawyer handling his will, and
his redhead secretary is crying.
She’s crying and it means she’s
had a shock and got to wind-up
whatever business Carson had
here and go back to his main-
office and wind that up and —
hey, she’ll be like me then.
Out of a job. Well, maybe that
won’t worry her. Because she’s
a letter-opener and typewriter-
tickler by trade and she’s female
and red-headed and a smart-
looker. Means she’ll soon get
another job.
There’s a night-porter at the
Crown Hotel and I make like a
wooden-god dry in a heatwave
and he comes good with a bottle
of cold beer and I take it up to
my room. So I’m in bed with
half the beer in me and thinking
about a lot of things. And
presently all the beer is in me
and I douse the light and lie
there and the thinking gets
fogged and I’ve had a big day
and it’s just right in the bed and
I ease-off into sleep and try to
catch the bells ringing about that
well-dressed Honey man.
Then I come up out of where
I been and somebody trying to
take me apart. So I go him, but
the bedclothes slow me and it’s
nothing but that night-porter
shaking me.
He’s got the light on and
keeping-on shaking.
“0.K., O.K. What’s up?”
“You’re Mr. Delaney, ain’t
you?”
“That’s right,”
“You’re wanted on the phone,
Mr. Delaney. They say it’s
urgent.”
This Crown Hotel don’t run
to room-phones.
“O.K, I’m awake. Where’s
the phone?”
“End of the passage, Mr.
Delaney. To your left.”
It’s on a little table. There’s
a four-legged stool under the
table.
I squat and pick up the phone.
The watch on my wrist kind
of peeps at me. I hadn’t thought
of the time. The watch says it’s
3.12 a.m.
“Hallo, Delaney here.”
“You the Delaney was going
to work for that chap Carson?”
“That’s right. Who’s speak-
ing?”
‘Listen. Just listen. What I
want to tell you is that it was
no accident,”
* “Huh! All right, I’ll buy it.
What was no accident?”
“Carson!”
“Listen, who’s speaking?”
“Fow listen! Carson was
dead before that wheel fell on
his head!”
I don’t say anything. Because
you get something like this
sprung at you at 3.12 a.m. in
one of these Murrayford towns
it wants watching. These places
got their cranks and jokers like
any place else.
Maybe somebody don’t like
me, maybe somebody is trying
to cook something up. I look
down the passage. The night-
porter has drifted downstairs.
Maybe he’s near the switch,
maybe he isn’t. I could put my
hand over the mouthpiece and
yell and maybe have someone
come and get them to put a call
into the police and check on this
call and
The police!
“Are you the police?”
“Not the police, Delaney.
Just somebody that knows,
that’s all.”
“Why call me? Why not the
police?”
“I’ll tell you something,
Delaney, The police come in on
this scares ’em off and we don’t
get nowhere.”
“Scares who off? What the
hell you coming at? What do
you mean, we don’t get
nowhere?”
“Listen, Delaney. This
is”
“Look, mate, if this is a joke,
you’ve had it. What do you
think I am? Go and”
“Delaney, you got to listen!
You know who I am?”
“I wish I did, I’d”
“You now talk,” said the
voice, “with a hombre that’s
known as Lay Down Misere
Mitchell on account of he
never misses a trick! It was no
accident. See you later,
Delaney.”
“Hey!”
But wherever he is he
hangs-up before I get it out.
{To be continued next week)
letter appeared in the
“Guardian,” Cowra, New South
Wales:
To the Editor.
Dear Sir,
Asa reader of your paper, I ask
that you use whatever news-channels
are available to the Cowra “Guar-
dian” to ascertain the truthfulness
or otherwise of. ...this statement
attributed to our Prime Minister
This is a statement which places
upon the Prime Minister the gravest
responsibility to refute. I person-
ally cannot accept, as the “Sydney
Morning Herald” writer puts it, that
it is a “characteristic touch of intel-
lectual arrogance."
Surely our own Prime Minister,
■whilst representing our great nation
abroad, would never cast .such a
despicable slight upon the members
of our National Parliament, the
majority of whom, at the present,
are supporters of his own political
philosophy....
So serious is the reflection cast
upon these members’ intelligence
that should your paper be unable
to ascertain whether or not this
reported statement is correct, then
I shall ask the Cowra branch of the
Australian Labor party to draft a
request to our local member, Mr.
John Howse, that he speciflcaUy
asks the Prime Minister on the floor
of the House.
Yours respectfully,
H.B.
Well, humor is incommunic-
able to those without it. When
this letter was shown to the
Prime Minister he just threw up
his hands and laughed till the
tears came into his eyes.
To listen to, Menzies is the
most lucid of all speakers.
Watching his gestures on the
platform, or in the House, noting
the expressive mobility of his
face and lips and eyebrows,
hearing every inflexion and
modulation of tone, it is almost
impossible to misunderstand him.
His meaning and his humor
are perfectly conveyed to his
immediate audience, whether his
mood be one of blandishment,
cynicism or accusation.
But afterwards, when a
reporter has to condense a bril-
liant speech of three- or four-
thousand words into a few
hundred words at most, and
sometimes into little more than
a paragraph, there is no space for
the nuances of expression and
meaning. It is like trying to
reproduce one corner of a paint-
ing—complete and perfect in
itself, but not capable of being
admired or understood in
fragments.
The speeches of a fine orator
are indeed works of art, as much
as is a painting, or a piece of
sculpture or music. And just as
you cannot form a very accurate
judgment of, say, Beethoven’s
Pastoral Symphony merely by
listening for a minute to “The
Storm” in the fourth movement,
so, if a speech contains many
subtleties of meaning and texture,
you cannot convey them with
anything approaching accuracy
in a couple of hundred words,
A good many of Menzies’s
speeches and statements as Prime
Minister are, of course, purely
“utilitarian”; i.e., their sole
purpose is to convey facts of
Government policy and adminis-
tration as clearly and concisely
as possible. But when he speaks
in debate, or post-prandially,
more as R. G. Menzies than as
Prime Minister, the structure of
his speeches is quite different.
Often these have much less
“news-value” than the other kind,
yet several times as much news-
paper space would be required
if their quality were to be con-
veyed to readers with anything
approaching fidelity.
The problem would be easier
to overcome if, for example, the
Prime Migjster, like so many
other public men, always had his
speeches prepared in advance
and made available in good time
to the Press. This would be
particularly valuable in cases
uij®*® a °^n,r.n Q
. ur ? r rom , I . s
time when the speech is about to
e f? ;., f , . c „ .
“ h h | f ee C ch ‘ es ’ ° ere 4 * ed
J 1 ~ , f * u
111 advance , they Would not be
SU ch good speeches. Their excel-
.°,. J . ,
t enCe > as speeches, IS due tO the
WQVen
. , , , f • ..
blind at the time Of their Utter-
dead
.j „„
intoned from a printed page,
They are created as they are
j
C .T . , -., . .. .
So the task Of the journalist
• i . “rover” a cneerb hv
a f lg ■ l ° Vera S P eCCn D Y
Menzies on the special occasions
indicated k far from easv • and
seated is tar from easy, ana
space- and time-factors in
modern nevvsnaner. nroduction
being what they are there IStt t
ff
’ in next
K U ue in ncM
week s Bulletin.)


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Australia to South Africa
Australia to South Africa is an unfor-
gettable flight—because it includes the
world’s longest regular commercial “hop”
of 2677 statute miles from one tiny spot
in the Indian Ocean to another not a
great deal bigger—Cocos Island to
Mauritius.
It is not so much the distance, but the
fact that its successful accomplishment is
almost entirely dependent on astro-navi-
gation. Radio beacons are only reliable
on a small radius at each end. If the air-
craft captain cannot get a “fix” three
hours out —in other words, if his fix is
doubtful because of visibility—then he
returns to base. That must be almost
unique in this modern age of civil flying.
It is not that it is a dangerous flight,
because the Connies have been running
for Qantas since September, 1952 —once
each way per fortnight. But it is doubt-
ful if there is a more interesting ocean-
spanning flight in the world.
The first big “hop” from Perth to
Cocos about 1800 miles—is, of course,
over water all the way and normally well
above the clouds. The passenger has
something to think about in navigation
when after eight hours the confident
blonde hostess announces over the inter-
com. that “We will be over Cocos in about
five minutes.”
The Connie noses down through the
clouds to about 1000 ft. and below, right
under the centre of the plane, is the mag-
nificent coral strip occupying about one-
third of West Island in the Cocos group
-it is big enough to handle any jet.
The nearest sizeable piece of land is about
1000 miles away!
. West Island airstrip has a population of
/O—R.A.A.F. and Civil Aviation—and
depends almost entirely on air-mainten-
ance. It has a famous sign on the strip;
Cocos Island Altitude 10 feet”—and that
is about accurate.
Four hours of servicing and refuelling
bongs us to 10 p.m., and a flight
to Mauritius begins by putting the clock
back two hours, enabling the plane to
have the maximum of darkness ail the
way and land at Mauritius just after dawn
at 6.30 a.m. The Australian crew of 10
—three pilots, two engineers, one navi-
gator, one radio-operator, two stewards
and one hostess—relieve each other on
two-hourly relays.
Another eight-hours’ night-flight puts
the Constellation over the new Jan Smuts
Airport at Johannesburg. It is reputed
to be the most modem in the world.
Strips covering dozens of acres provide a
lomet-jet terminal and will take any
commercial airliner. The terminal itself
ms a big restaurant, a huge Customs clear-
ing-house, bank, reception- and lounge-
rooms, showers and bathrooms, open-air
observation-points on top, and plenty of
service and courtesy. A first-rate reception
tor any stranger.—Ex-A.LF.-er (South
Africa).
The 40-hour Week
Forebodings about the baneful effects
ot the 40-hour week on Australian
economy have not been realised. The
directors’ report of the Australian Indus-
tries Development Association for March,
1954, states that in spite of the reduction
in working hours from 44 to 40 from
January, 1948, production per man-year
has continued to increase, and, in fact,
the rate of increase in productivity of
Australian manufacturing industry is as
high as that of the U.S.A. and exceeds
that of the United Kingdom.
The report points out that this increase
in productivity has been brought about
by a number of factors, most important
being the huge investment in manufactur-
ing industry since the war, totalling nearly
£lOOO million; the large interest of over-
seas companies in this investment, which
has brought the most modern and effici-
ent methods of manufacturing to Aus-
tralia ; the improvement in labor per-
formance, particularly in the last two
years ; the increase in the home market
since the end of the war from increased
I6E
1-ZfoQMING-
M&s
“Who brought a stranger into the show?”
population and increased incomes, lead-
ing to greater economies of large-scale
production ; improvement in management
methods, including technology, materials-
handling, accounting, etc.; and the
marked improvement in output of basic
materials such as coal and steel, and
electric-power.—C. L. (Q,),
New Guinea Settlement
Settlements burgeoning along New
Guinea’s inland supply-lines will have no
excuse for zigzag thoroughfares; their
main streets are the airstrips.
Missions, hospitals, schools, traders,
planters and the swivel-chairs of Civil
Aviation are following the push west-
ward, and already ladies are chattering
over teacups at Hagen and beyond.
Towns grow quick in New Guinea, and
pretty soon Chimbu, Minj and Hagen, as
bustling communities, will challenge
Goroka.
When changing transport methods (oil
companies use helicopters now) and the
nearness of residential areas outmode
present airstrips the white Highlanders
may take pleasure in boulevards a mile
long and as wide as football-fields.
Baiyer, Wabag, Mendi, Tari and points
west to Telefomin should react later to
pressure of settlement.
If the Administration can spare time
from urgent native problems to keep a
wary eye on civic fumblers the next
generation of Aussies may avail them-
selves of a region healthy, rich, colorful
and streets ahead of any similar set-up in
the world.— Ybsul (N.G.).
The Australian Worker
In five grape-pickers five nationali-
ties were represented, myself the only
home-made Australian. It was like the
United Nations in little, and discussion
and criticism raged hot, with Australia
coming off second-best most of the time.
But not so when we came to discuss the
Australian working man. He is the best
in the world.
A Yugoslav, with an unpronounceable
surname, was an authority on workers,
having been everywhere and done every-
thing, including time in various European
jails and forced-labor camps for politi-
cal offences. He extolled the Australian
attitude to work, while the others, in their
various accents, agreed with him.
“I tell you vun thing,” he said. “Aus-
tralians don’t like you if you work too
hard, and they like you less if yod don’t
work hard enough.” So he went on—
Australian workers have their own idea of
a fair day’s work and expect everybody
to throw in and get it done, whether the
foreman or boss is watching or not. They
are the most independent and responsible
workers in the world; they don’t need
much watching or supervision. They
are not always looking for ways to dodge
work because there is no enmity between
the worker and the boss, and the worker
therefore does not feel obliged to go s}ow
whenever the chance offers.
Each man is more-or-less his own boss
in Australia; each team is more-or-less
self-regulating; and there is very little
difference between the actual boss and
the men. The Yugoslav said he had never
struck a bad foreman in Australia, and
thought that no foreman could last long
who was not all right with the men under
him.
His only criticism was that Australians
were a bit too casual. For instance, if
you asked for a job, they might tell you,
“Yes, start in the morning,” and you
wouldn’t know a thing about hours,
wages, conditions, or even what time in
the morning you were supposed to start.
That seemed a bit farfetched to me, but
the others said that it was true. — Crunch
(Vic.).
Trams and Buses
In discussions of trams versus buse
one defect common to both is seldom
mentioned: the lack of space for pas
sengers’ belongings. The defect is par
ticularly noticeable in Sydney’s stande
buses, the best attempt of human geniu
to evolve a mobile sardine-tin since th
first toast-rack tram jolted along its rails
On short runs, like that from King’
Cross to the city, standee buses are quid
and not unduly uncomfortable, except for
the unfortunate traveller injudiciou
enough to be carrying a suitcase, basket
string-bag or armful of books and parcels
The most proficient juggler might well
envy the man or woman who, while
straphanging and balancing against stops
and starts, manages at the same time to
manipulate those small articles which
most of us carry while he or she fishes in
purse or pocket for the fare.
The man with a suitcase who has also
to manoeuvre his feet so as to keep the
thing from falling on to his neighbor’s
toes, or sliding across the floor, is quali-
fied for an acrobatic act on any vaude-
ville stage.
Obviously standee-buses cannot have
similar luggage-facilities to those pro-
vided in Sydney’s excellent electric-trains,
but it should not be beyond the com-
petence of modern transport-designers to
dream-up some substitute for that super-
seded carry-all the human lap.— Nan
(N.S.W.).
Iced Chocolate
The Danish icebreaker Kista Dan has
returned from Antarctica after landing
parties at Heard Island and Macßobert-
son Land. Everyone will agree that a
difficult job has been done well in the
face of tremendous odds, you have to
sail in those seas, and live with ice for a
long time, to realise just how great were
the odds stacked against her. Hurri-
canes of 100 m.p.h. and more, the
menace of the growling, grinding pack-
ice, navigation in unknown waters —each
bad enough on its own, and a seaman’s
nightmare when all three come at once,
as happened many times during Kista
Dan’s voyage. All credit to her master
and crew.
But now that she’s back the Depart-
ment of External Affairs, which controls
the Australian National Antarctic Re-
search Expedition through its Antarctic
Division, seems to have gone off its head.
In “The West Australian” the report of
Kista Dan’s arrival occupied little more
than half a column, which is most unusual
considering the babblings that have
greeted any move by the Antarctic
Division up to date. Twice the space was
devoted to an advertisement extolling the
virtues of chocolate, which is not un-
usual except that it featured the Antarctic
Division and its director, Mr. P, G, Law!
External Affairs is virtually the shop-
window of Australia’s efforts in diplo-
matic matters. Whatever is authorised by
the department must naturally be used
overseas as a measure for Australia’s dip-
lomatic responsibility. We claim two
slices of the Antarctic Continent—a third
of it in all; bigger than our own country.
It must please the United States (which
doesn’t recognise our Antarctic claims)
greatly to know that one division of our
diplomatic department is content to see
confectionery advertisements as an avenue
for publicity.—V. J. H. (W.A.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 273
Across
[-Rash haste in the rain. (13)
>—The greatest degree to be the least
reticent. (9)
W—lt helps one to forget b'eaten-up
louts. (5)
J 1 Bpar with courteous gestures of
. deference on a disorderly trip. (8)
13—There’s one for corporal punish-
ment often leaving one on the
. yack priest in confusion. (6)
o—Chaperon drops the dictator tea.
17— They say she writes mysteries. (6)
18— Place to pray for a gift of Burke,
a great Whig, or a Whig’s oppon-
ent. (7)
(3) C tlle n ® rec^*ents pi n ky?
21—Prohibit a crooner forming a
jagged point. (7)
-3 Secretion sends jewels back to
mother. (6)
-6—Being free of charges, it runs
across the court. (3)
« The ready twain shall meet at
the end of this nut. (6)
Reduction in rank during moon-
tide. (8)
j 1 Wat name for the 10th President
of the U.S.A.? (5)
" ve fifties and ring the sculptor.
34—Chief propositions for arguing
where Shaw’s Barbara lives. (5, 8)
Down
1— The most upright find the fruit
superlative. (8)
2 Make a path like the codlin
moth and corrode. (3, 4)
3 Fatherless pair about an instruc-
tive fable in Humpty-Dumpty’s
condition. (11)
4 Press one middle note —it’s satiri-
cal. (6)
5 A lot might be made of such a
voice. (4)
6 Crook in the postal surroundings
of Chicago. (3)
7 Gould has a row to become
neater. (7)
8— Lost conveyance he had for the
rustic editor. (6)
12—Dong the disorderly “cat’s” con-
dition. (7)
14—Pole worshipped the son of a
piper number in a “Mexican”
musical comedy. (5-3-3)
16 —It was both antediluvian and
post-diluvian. (3)
19 — Spot for a spot. (3)
20— Iris, Iris, the beribboned artist.
(8)
22 —He was caught by the hair in an
oak tree and there killed by Joab.
(7)
24 — King George and I sell up the
gratings. (7)
25 — It may be spoken with spirit. (6)
27—Note upset the junket-maker. (6)
30—Red-duck rising from a European
river. (4)
32—A vessel goes up as a rule. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 272


ApM
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman St., South Melbourne
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield,
Maryvale and Broad ford ( Vic .),
Botany ( N.S.W. ).
TREES FOREVER
Manufacture of wood-pulp
opened a new era for the
Australian Paper industry
A view of o pine nursery of A.P.M. Forests Pty. Ltd.,
showing some of the millions of seedlings which have
been planted out.
By ivise use of forest resources
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. has created a source of
national wealth , and at the same time is ADDING to the total of
first-class forest areas.
ONE of Australia’s most remarkable industrial
achievements is the manufacture of pulp suitable for
the making of paper products used in wrapping and
packaging. These products require a strong pulp known
as Kraft.
Before 1939 Australia was
entirely dependent upon overseas
supplies of such pulp for paper-
making, but in that year the
Mary vale, Gippsland (Vic.) pulp
mill began production of pulp at
the rate of 500 tons per week,
using Australian Eucalypt hard-
wood as the raw material. Today,
the mill is turning out over 1000
tons of kraft pulp a week entirely
from Eucalypt hardwoods, in addi-
tion to some 400 tons of softwood
pulp from locally grown pines.
This pulp is now used for making
a very wide range of papers of
uniformly high quality.
The establishment of the Aus-
tralian Kraft pulp making industry
in 1939 opened a new era for the
expansion of the Australian paper
industry.
A.P.M. today is the principal
manufacturer and supplier, directly
or indirectly, of the bulk of the
paper and cardboard used for
packaging purposes in Australia.
There is hardly a factory, a shop
or a home which does not use an
A.P.M. product in some form
every day.
AUSTRALIAN
PIONEERS
A.P.M. is a primary as well as
a secondary, industry. Its.work
in pioneering and establishing the
manufacture of kraft wood-pulp
from Australian eucalypt timbers
has gained world-wide recognition.
A.P.M.’s requirements of pulp-
wood are of the order of 200,000
tons per year. The procurement
of this amount of timber requires
a large labor force and heavy
logging equipment.
A royalty is paid for all timber
cut from State forests, but the
company owns some eucalyptus
forest areas of its own. As these
company-owned forests are cleared
of pulp - wood, silvicultural
methods are adopted that are
expected to increase the growth
to two or three times the natural
rate.
8,000 ACRES
OF PINE TREES
In recent years the company
started a pine planting « pro-
gramme by which it hopes within
20 years to make itself partly
independent of overseas long-fibre
pulps. In Gippsland over 8000
acres of pines have been planted
since the programme was started
in 1950. A small pine plantation
has also been purchased in N.S.W.
and is being developed. The com-
pany’s forestry subsidiary has
adopted the slogan “Trees For-
ever.” As a result of activities
in eucalyptus forests and in pine
plantations, pulpwood is being
grown at a faster rate than it is
being used.
HOW PULP
IS MADE
To make pulp from the timber,
the billets are first cut into small
chips and the chips then cooked
under pressure with white liquor
which is a solution of caustic
soda and sodium sulphide in
water. The cooking dissolves the
encrusting material from the chips,
leaving the cellulose fibres in a
free state.
The fibres (or pulp) are then
washed free of chemicals and
coloring matter and can then be
sent to the paper mill, the bleach
plant, or the Kamyr machines to
be lapped for transport to other
mills. The wash liquors contain-
ing the chemicals and the dis-
solved organic material from the
wood are then evaporated and the
organic material burnt in a
special boiler where most of the
process steam required is gen-
erated. The chemicals run from
this furnace in a molten state;
they are then dissolved in water,
causticised with lime and re-used
again in the cooking process.
The company operates its own
quarry at Buchan to supply lime-
stone, which is burnt at the mill
to form the lime for causticising.
An electrolytic plant is being
installed to produce chlorine and
caustic soda from salt. The
chlorine will be used for bleach-
ing the kraft pulp and some of the
caustic soda used as a make-up
chemical in the pulp mill.
The company operates a small
salt works on the shores of Lake
Alexandrina, ■- South Australia,
from which salt will be supplied
to the chlorine plant.
Another development by the
company has been the utilisation
of raw brown coal as a fuel for
industry. A.P.M. is the largest
industrial user of brown coal. It
draws brown coal from the State
Electricity Commission of Vic-
toria for its Maryvale Mill, and
provides the coal to its other
Victorian mills from an open-cut
at Bacchus Marsh operated by a
subsidiary.
This subsidiary company also
supplies substantial tonnages of
brown coal for industry generally
in the Melbourne area and has
recently obtained a contract from
the State Electricity Commission
of Victoria to supply up to
200,000 tons a year of brown coal
to the Commission’s new power
station at Ballarat. The current
production for all purposes is a
the rate of about 450,000 tons ;
year.
DECENTRALISED
INDUSTRY
In Victoria A.P.M.’s activities
provide an example of decen-
tralisation. In addition to the
mills in the Melbourne area, it
has the pulp and paper mill at
Maryvale, a board mill at Broad-
ford, a brown coal open cut at
Bacchus Marsh and pine plan-
tations and eucalyptus forests in
Gippsland. The company has
built some 800 houses for its
employees in the towns of
Traralgon, Morwell, Broadford,
Tyers and others.
In the defence of Australia
A.P.M. has an important role.
Not only were its products for
wrapping and packaging required
to the full during the last war.
but the company also produced
9000 tons of dissolving pulps from
pine for the manufacture of
explosives.
Without the products supplied
by A.P.M. Australia would have
had to use valuable shipping space
to bring supplies from overseas.
The company has a large re-
search organisation. An example
of the work of research is pro-
vided by the success in developing
to a semi-commercial stage, a pro-
cess for making from eucalypts,
pulps suitable for the manu-
facture of rayon and tyre yarn.
SVi MILLION
PAYROLL
In the aggregate A.P.M. is big
by Australian standards, but its
ownership represents the pooling
of resources by almost 30,000
stock and debenture holders.
Many of these individual in-
vestors are companies, associations
or trustees, each again represent-
ing many individuals. Without
doubt well over 50,000 individuals
are concerned directly or in-
directly in owning A.P.M. Over
98 per cent, of the moneys in-
vested in A.P.M. have been pro-
vided from Australian sources. It
is a collective effort of Aus-
tralian people.
A.P.M. is the direct employer
of some 5400 people. In addition
there are dependent on A.P.M.
not only the many thousands who
provide raw materials to the com-
pany, but also large numbers
engaged in the various industries
which convert A.P.M.’s products.
This year the company’s wages
bill will amount to some
£.5,500,000, and the company
will spend twice as much in the
purchase of raw materials, sup-
plies and services the greater
part in Australia.
The pulp end paper mill of A.P.M. Ltd., at Maryvale,
near Traralgon (Gippslond).
The Botany Mill of Australian Paper Manufacturers
Ltd., situated on the shores of Botany Bay (N.S.W.).
Australian Paper Manufacturers
Limited is the oldest established
Australian paper producer arid
had a capital of about £2,000,000
fifteen years ago. Today it has
over £20,000,000 invested in
plant and buildings, and now has
a pulp mill with a capacity of
75,000 tons of pulp and 14 paper
and board machines capable of
producing over 200,000 tons
yearly. These mills are located
in N.S.W. and Victoria.
AN ESSENTIAL
INDUSTRY
The range of products for
which A.P.M. provides the raw
material is wide. The convertors
which A.P.M. serve make such
products as solid and corrugated
fibre containers, multi-wall bags
such as are used for cement and
fertilisers, cartons of all grades,
set-up boxes, fibre drums, sisal
kraft for sacking, water-resistant
wrappings and the like, match-
boxes, cigarette packets, envelopes,
duplicating and blotting papers
and a host of other products.
It can be truly said that the
Australian paper industry is an
essential national industry, both in
time of peace, and from the view-
point of defence.
