

THE HOUSE
è
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
~~ATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
AN OFFICE-BOY'S ODYSSEY-/mge 24
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3890
Wednesday, September 1, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
“THE ROYAL AND ANCIENT," MECCA OF GOLFERS ALL
E historic city Of St. Andrews, fortyfour miles north of Edinburgh, in
Fife, has many claims to fame but to golfers the world over it is known
: home of golf. -
lolf has been played there from time immemorial and the famous Royal
indent Golf Club is the supreme governing body of the game, holding
>wer by free choice. It was instituted in 1754, and in consultation with
ruling bodies in other countries, it makes the rules of the game and
srets them. The original members made rules for themselves to play
;ame of golf and these rules were considered so sound and fair that other
i asked to be allowed to adopt them, until practically the whole world
:d according to the rules of the R. and A. The dub was thus voluntarily
pted by golfers as their ruling body.
There are four courses at St. Andrews: The Old, the New, the Eden
the Jubilee and many thousands of overseas golfers visit St. Andrews
i year to play on these courses. The classic Old Course of world-wide
iwn starts and finishes at the Royal and Ancient Club House, shown in
accompanying illustration. Its length is 6,883 yards with a standard
tch score of 75, and its hazards are many. Dai Rees did the course in
67. The Eden Course, with a length of 6,255 yards and a scratch score of
73, is the scene of the annual Eden Tournament which is open to amateurs
and is the most popular golfing event in Scotland; the principal trophy being
a handsome silver cup presented by the' Town Council. Unlike the other
courses at St. Andrews, golf may be played on the Eden on Sundays. The
latest addition is the Jubilee Course of 6,325 yards which was opened in 1946.
In the clubhouse can be seen portraits of some of the great golfers, and
a large collection of historic golf clubs which trace the history of club-making
from its early beginnings. Here, too, is the regalia of the Royal and Ancient
—the crown jewels of golf which are carried on ceremonial occasions. The
clubs are made of silver and attached to each is a net into which are placed
silver golf balls. Each captain is expected to present the club with a silver
ball. Several golf balls are to be seen there which were presented by
those members of the Royal Family who have been„captains of the Club.
On September 22, 1954, when as captain Lord Bruce of Australia plays
himself into office, a miniature cannon will be fired as the ball leaves the tee
and the caddy who retrieves it on the first fairway will be rewarded with a
golden sovereign.


STUDY FOR SUCCESS
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewnting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket'Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith ./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching-
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estiraating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams,
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Svdney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
1 CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON — .
S To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without }
I obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in— I
I 1
I • I
| If, XMK ■: I
i"
l‘l- -J
The Red Page
MYTH AUSTRALIA or THE NOSTALGIC LOVERS
This should begin with “Once upon a
1ime....” ; because it has to do with a
bevy of most beautiful visionary Myth
Australias as seen through the adoring
eyes of their several enchaftted lovers, and
with one of them in particular—the one
who may be called the title-heroine of
Vance Palmer’s The Legend of the
Nineties (Melbourne University Press),
and who, in the manner of all the truest
fairytale Princesses, before coming into
her own has to overcome stupendous
obstacles —baits and booby-traps, sting-
ing-nettles and spinifex—cast in her way
by Mr. Palmer himself.
For Mr. Palmer (who may be styled
the Prince) has, or pretends to have, a
whole headful of doubts about her. There
is even an impression that, at times, he so
far overrides chivalrous conduct as to
take a few potshots at her from behind
the gumtrees. But all this, it is good to
find, is pure make-believe, or eyewash.
Mr. Palmer is really desperately in love
with her all the time. The obstacles, the
wait-awhile, even the potshots, are not so
much to test as to prove that she is real
and, at the same time, immortal. They,
too, these two, will live happily ever after.
But before risking a closer look at this
lovely being ourselves —which may mean
that we, also, inevitably must, as they
say, fall for her, for there’s no question
she’s a stunner —perhaps it might be as
well to pause here and look over one or
two of her sisters. For there are, it would
seem, several of these Myth Australias of
the ’Nineties, all closely related, all most
attractive, and all different; and it’s best
to be sure. Besides, a passing look at one
or two of these others may help to make
Mr. Palmer’s choice all the more visible,
and perhaps all the more lovely (as it is,
she is singularly visible, which in itself
is a testimony of truth).
There is, then —and very attractive she
is, too, in her wicked way—the similarly
visionary heroine of the gay little board-
covered tome called Those Were the Days,
published by Tyrrell’s, Limited, in 1918,
and written by that extraordinarily volatile
and versatile character George A. Taylor
(some of “Hop’s” early Bulletin car-
toons carried acknowledgment to Taylor
lor the ideas).
As chronicled in James R. Tyrrell’s Old
Books, Old Friends, Old Sydney, George
Taylor wrote sundry odd books of verse
and prose, others on town-planning (he
was the founder of the Town Planning
Association), became publisher of a whole
string of trade journals (and made money),
was an art critic for London “Studio,”
was the first Australian black-and-white
sketcher to break into London “Punch,"
at one time had different drawings
appearing simultaneously in The
Bulletin, the “Sunday Times,” the “Aus-
tralian Star,” the “Melbourne Punch” and
the Adelaide “Critic,” as well as over-
seas, and became, too, a brilliant radio
engineer, founded the Wireless Institute,
took to the air and became an expert
aviator (at a time when that itself was
a claim to fame), founded the New South
Wales Aerial League, and —possibly most
to the purpose here—had been an arch-
bohemian among Sydney’s bohemians of
the ’nineties and thereabouts.
Beauty being relative, it helps if we
thus know the lover, too ; and that may
go for Mr. Palmer’s Myth Australia no
less than for George Taylor’s. The two
heroines who emerge in their books look
so different that there might seem only
a time relationship between them. Mr.
Palmer’s Myth Australia is lovely and
good with it (as already stated, she is
visionary). George Taylor’s? Well,
frankly, she’s a gay woman. The ’nineties,
he says ; ah, the ’nineties! A time “when
there appeared to be no serious side to
life; when one could merrily play and
sing just for the joy of living.” You see
his choice at once! Enshrining her, his
breezy little book is a book of bohemians
and their clubs: the Dawn and Dusk
Club and the rest of them. You catch
your glimpse of her (and maybe you
catch your breath at the sight, or both
sights) through a golden haze of whisky-
and-soda as George Taylor prattles away:
“I remember one summer day three
‘duskers’ sought the shadow of the Empire
H0te1....” “We were young and light-
hearted,” says George Taylor. “We lived
for the moment,... ”
That is George Taylor’s Myth Australia
of the ’Nineties. She is, if you like, a
very naughty girl; and perhaps it is as
well that we see her only thus as a vision,
lest some of us be found wanting in the
moral fibre of Mr. Palmer, who takes one
hasty look at her (or at one very like her)
and swiftly and expertly gives her, as they
say, the brush-off.
In all ways she seems very different
from Mr. Palmer’s title-heroine. She
seems different, too, from another sister,
though not so different as both of them
seem to be from Mr. Palmer’s preference.
This other one —lovely, too ; they’re all
lovely—is implicit heroine of Arthur W.
Jose’s The Romantic Nineties, published
by Angus and Robertson in 1933, Like
George Taylor, Arthur Jose lived through
the debatable period and was of an age
to be able to see for himself something
of what went on (a book of verse by Jose
was the second book to be published by
A. and R.; just before the ’nineties
opened).
Hence, the testimony of -both Taylor
and Jose has at least the value of being
that of eyewitnesses: it may also, perhaps,
be important that both of them lived
through the ’nineties in Sydney; relevant
(it seems from Jose) because Mr. Palmer’s
place-viewpoint is Melburnian. Arthur'
Jose was brash enough to assert: “I am
convinced that the Melbourne of the
’nineties was not romantic. Its literary
circles were obsessed with respectability,
the respectability which they believed
fervently to be the ruling English type.”
As if that were not insult enough, he
added (and it’s a wonder the Yarra didn’t
rise up and strangle him): “Ashton and
Streeton and Daley (and later on Nornian
Lindsay and Hugh McCrae) all migrated
to the despised Sydney.”
Jaundiced? Well, be that as it may,
the flaunting yellow of it (or the green?)
helps as an offset to show up Mr. Palmer’s
particular Myth Australia, which is what
is wanted.
On less physically risky ground, Jose
pedestailed his own Myth Australia of
the ’Nineties: “Sometimes,” he wrote,
“one pauses to wonder ‘Were the Roman-
tic ’Nineties really romantic?’ There is
no doubt about the answer. They were,
not merely to us looking back, but to us-
living in them.” And also; “The ’nineties
were ‘romance’ to us, even while we lived
in them.” At the same time—and this is
where his visionary implicit heroine seems
to differ from George Taylor’s glamor
girl—Jose did see the ’nineties as “a
decade of unusual importance the
beginning of a new age,” and those living
in it “full of widespread excited pleasure
in all its environment and eager at all
costs to express it.” But of these he said,
too: “Their whole spirit was healthily
boyish, not adolescently revolutionary or
boredly middle-aged.”
Arthur, thou shouldst be living at this
hour!
For here, now, we have Mr. Palmer’s
A iictfnlin “*■
fh£* m TC Hi! like u nfC 111 OH!tO r V
vision shouting “On, on to the
Barricades! ”
The one who is presently to become
Mr. Palmer’s dream-heroine emerges in
the idea of the ’nineties as “a golden
period when all the creative forces of the
country were simultaneously in flower,
when men and women drew inspiration
from what was being written and the
sense of a people in motion affected the
writers” ; when, as the quoted American,
C. Hartley Grattan, found, there was “a
great upsurge of creative idealism among
the masses and the intellectual classes,”
and “Australian literature flourished as
never before,” and painters “for the first
time began to get the Australian scene on
canvas,” and “almost all the articulate
people were in some measure influenced
by a powerful desire to build a better
society.” So (Mr. Palmer picturesquely
elaborates) there has grown up this legend
of the ’nineties
as a period of intense artistic and political
activity, in which the genius of this young
country had a brief and brilliant first
flowering. Something new, it is claimed,
emerged into the light. A scattered people,
with origins in all corners of the British
Islands and Europe, had a sudden vision of
themselves as a nation, with a character
of their own and a historic role to play, and
this vision set fruitful creative forces in
motion.
A vision, too, a dream of all this in an
insular isolation (this Myth Australia,
and her sisters, flourished a little before
the atom-bomb and all that): “the
dream,” as Mr. Palmer identifies the
vision, “of a self-contained country, secure
from the outer world, developing its own
resources, and gradually building up a
society that would be a pattern for free
men everywhere.”
Csesar’s ghost! ... or Antony’s, if he’s
around, might be able to measure such
tresses of ambition ; and run the tape, too,
over the same element in this further
identifying of the legend:
The dumb continent, silent for icons,
began to find voice. Balladists and story-
tellers appeared, taking their background
for granted and addressing their audiences
in the popular idiom, instead of in the
stilted language that had hitherto been
thought appropriate for print. The painters
looked at the landscape about them with
fresh eyes and tried to capture its delicate
colors and dazzling light. In politics there
were impulses towards unionism, federation
and self-dependence, all shot through by a
quivering awareness that these things were
not ends in themselves, but steps towards
the creation of a perfect commonwealth.
It bears, perhaps, some resemblance to
old Gonzalo’s notion of a commonwealth,
or perhaps even to Jack Cade’s ; but at
any rate it is the habitat of Mr. Palmer’s
dazzling symbolical Myth Australia. She
is not, quite obviously, anything like her
gay sister of George Taylor’s choice ; one
to be met in the shadow of the Empire
Hotel: she wouldn’t be seen within cooee
of it. Nor is she anything like the purely
romantically fanciful bit of goods nomin-
ated for the Myth Australia pedestal by
Arthur Jose. She is a more reputable
Myth than the one, and more serious-
minded than the other.
Withal, she is so dazzling that a notice
needs to be put up near her: “Danger!
Dreams at work.” Mr. Palmer himself
thinks so (or pretends to think so); that,
in large part, is what his book is all about
—resolving (or pretending to resolve) his
own doubts as to whether anything so
lovely to his own eyes could ever possibly
be real.
“Such,” he says; after identifying her,
“was the dream that gives basis to the
legend. It has never been described with
precision, but isn’t it the essence of a
dream to be vague in outline? Neverthe-
less, this one has a close connection with
historical reality.”
As this admission of his feelings comes
out on his first page, you might think
that Mr. Palmer, setting out as a royal
commissioner to inquire into the character
of the charmer in the court, has really
made up his mind and arrived at his
decision in advance—like, say, the judge
in “Trial by Jury,” You might think so
even more—that he has, in fact, gone
right in off the deep-end—when, giving
the whole of one of his nine chapters to
The Bulletin (“The Bushman's Bible”),
he commits himself in these rather irre-
vocable terms:
The Bulletin’s pages reflected all that
was vague arid all that was positive in the
life of the time, and the literature it helped
to bring into being remains as the most
definite proof that, during the period, a
creative spirit, inspired by a new outlook
on the Australian world, was actually at
work in the country. ...
But this apparent easy committing of
himself, it turns out, is deceptive. No one
less like a headstrong, impetuous lover
i _ t--*'-- «->'b T TnliLf. rTporofe
grandfather’s whiskers—Mr. Palmer gives
the impression that he is more interested
in her relations and how they tied their
bowyangs than in the girl herself. It is
not enough for him that this Myth Aus-
tralia, his legendary title-heroine, is
indubitably there, and is “golden” and a
“dream” and lovely: he wants to know
her breeding, her precise pedigree, and
how she got there. He explores her family-
tree back to Mr. Commissioner Bigge,
who, round about 1819, noted of her fore-
bears ri—
The class of inhabitants that have been
born in the colony affords a remarkable
exception to the moral and physical charac-
ter of their parents: they are generally tall
in person and slender in their limbs, of fair
complexion and small features.
And so on and forward through other
observers of her nearer ancestors, mostly
on the bearded, or bowyang, side of the
species, but with one —Alexander Harris;
a Scot who should have a monument-
casting a presumably expert eye (in 1847)
in the more engaging direction:
The very general prettiness of the native
white girls struck me very forcibly. I do
not know how to account for it, but there
is common to them, in all points, a singu-
larly marked feminine character; a gentle,
simple womanliness that is peculiarly agree-
able.
Nearer in time by 40 years or so is
Francis W. L. Adams, with testimony, on
the bowyang side, which Mr. Palmer finds
especially significant and convincing (it
speaks of the fusion, the moulding which
is finally to body forth Mr. Palmer’s par-
ticular Myth Australia, as having then
already happened):
This is a true republic; the truest, I take
it, in the world. In England, the average
man feels he is an inferior; in America he
feels he is a superior; in Australia he feels
he is an equal. This is indeed delightful.
You might think that after that even
so careful a lover as Mr. Palmer must
surely be satisfied at last. But Francis
Adams, like other quoted testifiers, was
here observing before the ’nineties —and
there’s the rub, and the nub, too!
For what Mr. Palmer is really question-
ing is not the bona tides of his inamorata
in point of fact but in point of time.
Whether, that is, she just sprang up,
Phoenix-like, in that closing decade of the
century —as casual lovers like George
Taylor and Arthur Jose were happy to
accept—or whether she had not only
ancestors going back far enough to satisfy
the most ardent admirer of stud-book
statistics, but also her own infancy and
adolescence, a question possibly never
raised about any Myth before. And on
this Mr. Palmer reports in terms that
would probably have produced even
worse and more deplorable sneers at the
Melburnian, outlook from Arthur Jose,
and been quite incomprehensible to any-
one with, George Taylor’s lightness of
heart:
Most of the people who spread over the
country in the days after the gold rush did
have some vision of the just and perfect
State at the back of their minds. There
were the immediate problems, of course,
of earning a living and getting a roof over
their heads, but it was the prospect of
writing, on a virgin page, a new chapter
in the history of humanity that touched
their feelings and quickened their imagina-
tions. Before we can consider the dream-
time of the ’nineties we have to consider
the mixed human elements that by then had
begun to fuse, so that, well before the unify-
ing effect of political federation, it had
become natural for visitors like Adams to
speak of the Australian people.
Mr. Palmer further finds:
The truth seems to be that the various
impulses, ideas, and aspirations that made
up the Australian dream cannot be limited
to a particular decade. They sought expres-
sion, in one form and another, during the
whole period from Eureka to the first World
War, helping to turn a mixed and scattered
population into a people and bring them
into harmony with their background.
“Yet,” says Mr. Palmer, and this is the
sum of it all, “something that had its
origin in the years after Eureka certainly
came to a head near the end of the
century.” And as evidence of this he
shows what went on in the way of literary
and artistic effort, politics, social reform
and so forth, especially as reflected in,
and aided or influenced by, The Bulletin
at the time. Himself a notable practi-
tioner, he is particularly interested in, and
interesting on, the literary evidence as
given by Lawson, Paterson, “Price
Waning,” “Furphy,” O’Dowd and ihe
rest; and if his opinions, one way or the
other, may be thought sometimes rather
warm and sometimes rather warped, what
is it, after all, but another opinion that
thinks so; and what, anyway, are
opinions but feathers in the Wind?
It weighs no more than that
if, for "instance, one may feel
that his tremendous boosting of
O’Dowd—a poet of one stupendous
i; or; odd floeb or
(Continued on parr SO)


A
K
4-5
Why not do your own paper hanging?
Today more and more young home-makers are doing their own paper hanging. It’s very easy
(we’ve a special booklet for beginners) and so economical on the budget! Our wall
paper department, which is always on the lookout for new and unusual wall papers, has
just landed an outstanding shipment from England. Write (or call) for
samples—but please don’t forget to state the type and the price you wish to pay.
li
f 'f i .X X :■ £A j
era* i
r> wMr f '- c ■
Li > Ifi H *
rV< .O /, f- «»
* M
r t r fT& %
An attractively textured wall paper
in a soft cream colour ideal for
any room, 15/- roll.
0 \
«. * *
« f h , Y *
iSL. ~ JR
Pretty daisies, combined with
spots on a blue ground is ideal
for a teenager’s room, 8/- roll.
-
Unusual striped wall paper has a
pearly finish. In pink, green or
cream only, priced at 11/- roll.
Textured wall paper in a self-
floral embossed design. Pink or
cream, priced at 23/- roll.
<
'•
mm.
»•• fts ft •
T ‘
, vf £ Vfe -i«
> * s -*'.*%
This dainty wall paper has pastel
flowers on a pretty blue back-
ground. Priced 7/- roll.
£>fti
This plastic finished wall, paper
is easy to handle. Attractive floral
design on cream, 16/- roll.
Embossed plastic - finished wall
paper is in green, primrose or
cream. Priced at 15/- roll.
Engravure, a distinctive wall
paper for halls etc. Gold, primrose,
cream, green, 32/- roll.
nr
m
mm
m
m
m
mm
iM.
Trellis type patterned wall paper
in grey on a buff ground, is
priced at only 8/6 roll.
mmM
m
L
Si
mm
m
m
m
ml
Heavy tapestry wall paper in soil
muted shades, ideal for panelling,
is priced at 14/- roll.
mm %
m
m
m
.
HHI
■
Moire striped regency style wall
paper in grey, flesh or off white,
is priced at 32/- roll.
*
Vitrauphie window paper, suitable
for all types of windows, is priced
from only 3/6 yard.
m
' '
mmm
? ?
«
- _ -I W
, Sr
: I v
Nursery friezes in sets of 7yds.
long and 5 inches wide are hard
wearing and fadeless. 6/- set.
31 s
i
1
¥::.;S
f
s*c
Nursery wall paper suitable for
either boys or girls in an animal
design, is priced 11/- roll.
Pretty trellis and floral design
a blue background, is ideal
bedrooms. Price, 7/- roll.
é
ê
ë
ē
e
SEND FOR OUR FREE BOOKLET ON “HOW TO PAPER YOUR WALLS”
It’s easy to paper your own walls—send for our free booklet. It shows how
the experts do it in nine easy-to-follow, fully explained steps.
A
TRUTH
ADVERTISING
Horderns
nthony
BOX 2712, G.P.O. SYDNEY. ’PHONE BO 961.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, September 1954
Vol. 75—No. 3890
t /
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man*'
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
* Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
SELLERS' MARKET ENDED
Not enough has been said in Budget-speeches about
the condition of Australia’s overseas markets to give
anything like a clear picture of the problems which
are looming up with the advent of higher world output,
freer trade and competition in other continents.
These dangers may be surmounted, more parti-
cularly as our most stable export commodity seems to
be in a permanently strong position. But that a period
of changeover should come with mounting import-
buying gives room for some unease. The Treasurer's
Budget-speech called attention to this fact. While
exports returned £3O million less last year than in
1952-53 the value of imports increased by about 30
per cent,, or £l7l million. Over the whole economy
our balance on current account with the rest of the
world for 1953-54 was actually a small debit, against
a credit of nearly £2OO million the year before.
Australians have become used to selling every-
thing they have to offer in a world which has been
short since the war, particularly of food and fibres,
and in which productive agencies in countries directly
touched by war have been under reconstruction; but
conditions are changing suddenly and definitely, except
in the wool market, which provides us with nearly
half our income.
It must be clear that the exports of goods and gold,
which netted us an expansion in revenue from £274
million in 1946-47 to £833 million in 1953-54, are just
as capable of facing us with a disconcerting contraction
in the next decade if the country does not put its
strength to the wheel and get itself on to a competitive
basis.
There is no doubt about the condition of the wheat-
market. Prices are held up by the scruff of the neck,
and the Australian surplus for which there is no sale
may range for the season 1953-54 to nearly 50 per
cent, of the crop of 200 million bushels. The fight to
retain the flour-market of South-East Asia, which has
been such a prop to the economy of the Australian
wheatgrower, will not be easy, as events already are
showing, though proximity is an asset on our side.
The meat-markets are in a state of change. British
bulk-buying of mutton and lamb ended in July, and
beef and veal will end in October, The 15-year meat
agreement runs on until 1967, but it will henceforth be
on a trader-to-trader basis, lire United Kingdom takes
over 80 per cent, of our beef and veal, and will continue
to take it, no doubt, but the Australian Meat Board
has made it very clear that it will not in future take it
indiscriminately, and that quality will, from now
onward, be the key to success in selling at a payable
price.
The position of other products was set out clearly
a few days ago in a special article in the London
“Times.” The seven-year contract which we have with
Britain for the sale of butter and cheese finishes in
June, 1955. Butter, of course, is subsidised to the
extent of £15,600,000 this year to “maintain a
guaranteed return of 4s. 1.29 d. per pound commercial
butter basis to dairyfarmers in accordance with the
provisions of the Dairy Industry Act of 1952.”
The “Times” declares that after the end of the
agreement producers will sell on “sheer merit and in
the face of keen competition”;
Australia has a smaller percentage of choice
butter for export than other producers owing to a
large domestic demand. The market for Australian
cheese in the United Kingdom has declined, and the
Ministry of Food has had to offer large stocks at
reduced prices in an effort to clear them. In 1952-33
the United Kingdom purchased 61 per cent, of Aus-
tralia’s butter exports and 64 per cent, of her cheese
exports.
The paper further points out that Australian
canned fruits are already meeting keen competition
from S, Africa and the United States, and will have to
face particularly menacing inroads from S. Africa for
the 3,000,000-odd cases which we have for export in
this —incidentally record-year, since “S. Africa, with
colored labor, is producing sugar and having the
benefit of a shorter haul, and can therefore readily sell
more cheaply than Australia.”
And the dried-fruits and wine industries are no
better placed. The dried-fruits contract ran out last
year, when the U.K. took 62 per cent, of Australia’s
exports. Now for the first time since pre-war days Cali-
fornia, S. Africa, Turkey and Greece are in the field
in a way which renders Ottawa Agreement protection
of little avail. Australian products will have to stand
on their own feet at competitive prices. Turkey and
the United States subsidise their exports, and the
Commonwealth’s plea that this is unfair competition
which should debar them from import-licences might
be regarded as a piece of humor by the countries
concerned. Our fresh-fruits, due to quality, however,
are in a very strong position.
Wine is affected by the U.K. duties on imports, and
the average of 3,700,000 gallons before the war is
down to not much more than 1,000,000 gallons. The
wine surplus just about parallels the wheat surplus.
And the egg position speaks for itself on the figures.
As the “Times” again points out, the 11 months of the
season ending in May saw only 12,250,000 dozen export
eggs-in-shell sold, against 20,750,000 in the same period
of the season last year. The United Kingdom is now
subsidising home production, and the Continent is
coming into the market and can readily undersell us.
It is obvious that overseas markets are in a fluid
condition again, and that our future depends on the
realisation of the extent of our dependence on the
British market, which cannot be substituted in a low-
price world, and on a serious effort to meet competition
by proper measures at home. There is a strong tendency
in Australia, especially in the press and in that part
of politics which thinks in terms of defence, to publicise
the idea that Britain is no longer of our world, that
we belong to the Pacific and that our natural affiliations
are with America. The truth is that we are trying to
live in both worlds —to claim special preferential treat-
ment in British markets and to live in the world of
defence with the Americas. Even now our European
markets are dependent for continued existence in
respect of almost half our products—particularly meat,
sugar and dairy products—on Ottawa and other pro-
tection. But the shield has worn thin, and agitation is
rising for a revision of preferences to meet modern
conditions.
It will have to be matched locally within the Com-
monwealth with some concessions of our own. It will
be surprising if within the next half-dozen years the
truth is not brought home to Australians that it is not
possible to continue to prosper and export in a country
where the 40-hour five-day week is a fetish and the
sheep is the only worker who does not claim margins
and double-pay for Saturday work.
Distant Fields
Sydney’s 21-man City Council found itself in unwonted
unanimity for a brief period last week —and the subject
wasn’t fruit-barrows. Alderman Bartley had proposed
that the finance committee be asked to consider sending
a delegation to America to study town-planning and
parking problems, and that until the report of the
delegation was received all decisions on these matters
should be deferred. Up rose Alderman O’Dea, a
former Lord Mayor and a present member of the
Legislative Council, secretary of the Shop Assistants’
Union and a mighty man in the councils of the A.L.P.
As Alderman Bartley is the leader of the Civic
Reform group in the City Council, the normal thing,
almost the automatic thing, for O’Dea to do would be
to oppose his suggestion on the instinctive grounds that
there can be no good in any plan that does not emanate
from “Labor.” But O’Dea was not in opposing mood.
He heartily endorsed the proposal, subject to an amend-
ment that action on decisions already made should
not be held up by the trip. Alderman Bartley accepted
the amendment, and the motion was unanimously
approved by the council, though details were left to
the finance committee to work out, and no decision was
made as to the number to be included in the party
or the countries to be visited.
Sydney is often accused of being a self-centred
city and its people of being self-opinionative, impatient
of criticism and unwilling to accept advice from out-
. siders. As far as the City Fathers are concerned this is
clearly not the case. Sydney aldermen come in all
shapes and sizes, their outlines not necessarily a clue
to their political allegiance, and on most subjects
touching the city’s reputation and dignity they are
prepared to spring at once to its verbal defence. But
on the two subjects parking and town-planning they
are prepared to admit with all humility that they have
much to learn from abroad.
Alderman O’Dea, for example, considers the
subjects so important to Sydney’s future that “aider-
men should be fully equipped to make proper
decisions,” and they cannot do this unless “they see
for themselves what other countries with more experi-
ence of the problems of town-planning are doing.”
This seems to suggest that he wants the entire council
to go abroad, unless he means to except himself and
the Lord Mayor and such other aldermen as have
already had their minds broadened by foreign travel.
Before the whole council packs its traps other
aldermen might do well to examine Alderman O’Dea’s
record closely for evidence of wisdom garnered from
other lands. Was it in Holland or in Ireland that he
got the idea of augmenting his union’s funds by pimp-
ing on suburban corner-shops for after-hours trading?
Was it London or New York that encouraged him to
oppose the return of late-shopping on Friday-nights
and to campaign against Saturday-morning trading?
And from what country did he pick up the formula for
compulsory unionism of which he is one of the chief
sponsors and from which his union is to be one of the
biggest gainers?
Several aldermen have objected to press criticism
of their proposed tour of inquiry. In moving his
motion Alderman Bartley said “Most enterprising firms
and organisations send their representatives overseas
to keep fully informed on developments in their
spheres, and I am suggesting that the council do the
same.” Alderman Tate agreed, saying “It is common-
place for companies to send men overseas to check
on developments.”
No one is likely to dispute that private concerns
send men abroad to study. But they do not send them
m droves ; nor do they send a string of men in succes-
sion to study the same problem. The late Citv
Engineer, Mr. Garnsey, went abroad in 1952 and
submitted comprehensive reports—-all apparently
ignored or deemed out-of-date, and the Lord Mayor
Alderman Hills, has twice visited America in the past
15 months, on both occasions making a study of park
ing methods in U.S. cities. On his return the Lord
Mayor passed on to his colleagues, by word of mouth
and by a screening of films, the results of what he had
learnt. This, apparently, has had little effect, except to
whet their appetites for foreign travel. Will the tour
of the selected delegation have a similar effect on
those who miss out?
Foreign-study courses, to be of any use, must be
followed by action, and business-houses, having sent a
man abroad, are usually prepared to accept his recom-
mendations. They expect to get something back for
the cost of his trip. The ratepayers have no guarantee
that they will get anything at all back in return for the
money spent on the proposed aldermanic jaunt, and
on past experience they have little reason to expect any
benefit. The “Labor” majority on the City Council
knows quite well, as do Civic Reform minority and the
two Communist passengers, that though they may
send a delegation to America or Britain or, for that
matter, to Samarkand or Timbuktu, its recommenda-
tions have not the slightest chance of being carded
out unless they meet with the approval of the A.L.P.
executive, which doesn’t worry about foreign travel,
but makes its decisions in a room at the Trades Hall.
As evidence of this they have only to read the
sections of Mr. Justice Maxwell’s Liquor Report relat-
ing to his observations on drinking hours in other
countries, and then to consider the Cahill Govern-
ment’s iron determination not to be influenced by
them.
If the City Council wishes to spend’money on
foreign travel, let it be spent on sending abroad
technical men who will have the job of carrying out
whatever decisions are eventually made, not on men
who, whatever they learn abroad, will still be pledged
to vote as the Trades Hall directs them.
Value of Self-discipline
There is nothing new or revolutionary in
the decision of the conference of Parents and
Citizens’ Associations to press for the introduction of
self-discipline in schools as a means of building better
and more responsible citizens.
I recall a country schoolteacher more than 50
years ago telling a class, of which I happened to be
one, that if we wouldn’t respond to self-discipline we
weren’t worth teaching. He put us “on our honor” to
observe the school code; and I can recall only one
instance of our having let him down—by leaving the
playground during his absence at lunch-time to watch
a bullfight in an adjoining paddock. The teacher, wise
enough to realise that the boy who could resist the
temptation to get a close-up of a bullfight had never
been born, rang the bell loudly to recall us to the
playground and then marched us into school. We
expected (and probably deserved) half a dozen strokes
each; but all we got was a quiet lecture on the
importance of discipline, ending with the cutting remark
directed to the eldest boy in the class (who happened
to be me): “I thought better of you.”
It was a lesson I never forgot. This particular
teacher followed a man who had “used the stick” on
every possible occasion ; but all he achieved was to
turn us into a class of rebellious youths who had
respect for his rulings only when they were enforced at
the point of the rod. It was a relief when his successor
began by appealing to our better nature; and we
developed a confidence in him and a pride in our work
that could never have been achieved by punitive
methods.
In my experience self-discipline works with adults
as well as children provided it is made clear that there
is authority behind it. The boss who considers it
necessary to spy on his staff to ensure they do a fair
thing is either a poor disciplinarian or has the mis-
fortune to employ people who were never taught self-
discipline when young. True, there are anti-social
elements in every school and every community who,
if left to themselves, will undermine the morale of
the more responsible majority. It is the duty of alert
teachers and employers to take positive action to win
the majority to their side by appealing to their innate
pride to accomplish something worth while in life. It
is the same with the preservation of law and order in
the community. Some people can be trusted to do the
right thing because they were taught when young to
respect the rights and property of their fellow-citizens.
Others are honest only because there is a policeman
around the corner.
I am convinced, after 30 years’ experience of
motoring throughout New South Wales, that a high
degree of road-safety will be assured only when drivers
discipline themselves to the point of accepting the
traffic code as necessary for the well-being of all road-
users (including themselves) and not something to be
broken at will if there is no traffic-policeman in sight.
After years of intensive campaigning and the imposi-
tion of steeply rising penalties, the road-toll is still far
higher than it should be, and would be, if motorists
were placed “on their honor” to observe safety-first.
The minority who have retained their accident-free
records in the teeth of fairly general irresponsibility
and discourtesy are in constant danger of having their
reputations sullied because of the refusal of the majority
to control their habits and behavior. It may well be
that self-discipline taught in the schools will in years
to come exercise a beneficial influence on the relations
between employers and employees and provide us with
a more responsible and courteous citizenry.


THE BIRD OF ILL-WILL


PLAIN ENGLISH
France and E.D.C.
The last-minute attempts of the Belgian
Foreign Minister, M. Spaak, and of the
Americans, to save the European Defence
Community treaty seem doomed. Even
if the treaty were adopted by France it is
difficult to imagine that it would be carried
out in a spirit of co-operation.
The Mendes-France Government has
taken an attitude which smacks strongly
of double-dealing, leading a member of
the Assembly committee to remark that
its report had torpedoed ratification.
The treaty does not propose to allow
Western Germany any unreasonable
military strength in the combination —it
would contribute 12 divisions to the pool
army, France 14. But the Communists
have been active in France, as elsewhere,
propagating the idea that this is 'merely
a beginning, and that with American aid
the West Germans are to acquire a force
of overwhelming strength compared with
that of Frafnce —Schmidt-Wittmark, the
traitor who recently went over to East
Germany and who was a so-called
Christian Democratic member of the
West German Lower House, places the
agreed strength, all told, at 24 active and
24 reserve divisions.
This would be modest considering West
Germany’s position and peril, and is less
than either Czechoslovakia, Poland and
East Germany are severally believed to
support, in addition to Russian troops
on the spot.
It would be much better from France’s
viewpoint to have an integrated arrange-
ment, But there seems to be no chance
of this, and the implications are serious.
The chairman of the French Foreign
Affairs Committee, Jules Moch, opened
the debate in the French Assembly by a
demand that the treaty should be rejected:
a ragged rabble, Communists on the one
hand and Gaullists on the other, sup-
ported him with enthusiasm, and cheered
his prophecy that two years after ratifica-
tion Germany could put 40 divisions into
the field against half the number for
France. M. Mendes-France pointed out
that the rejection of the E.D.C plan
will not settle the question of West Ger-
man rearmament; but it is likely to settle
the fate of the Atlantic Pact, which can
scarcely continue to exist long if France
throws out the plan. Britain and the
United States have made it pretty clear
that if France refuses to adopt the E.D.C.
scheme they will feel forced to restore
Germany’s full sovereignty save in
military matters.
There is no doubt that France is the
weak spot in the Western world and
one that does not seem capable of being
strengthened. It is still the France of
the Vichy era, torn in two, the heart of
a very large section wrapped up in love
for revolution and indulging a fellow-
feeling for Russian Comrades. The
aftermath of its complete surrender in
Vietnam is deplorable, and its behavior
in North Africa is parallel with that of
the Attlee Government at its worst.
It is difficult to see where France is
going. It is rapidly becoming as mori-
bund politically as Italy and useless to
its allies instead of the tower of strength
it was to civilisation in 1914-18, While
it is possible to feel sympathy for its
people, it is obviously as true of them
as it is of every nation that they will have
both the Government and the fate they
deserve in their present state of seething
division.
Every day the politics of the Continent
prove how dangerous a playground it is
for the Anglo-Saxon democracies and
how the need grows for closer associa-
tions on the basis of moderate policies
and overwhelming strength among the
English-speaking nations.
Of Rlpek* Years
The high-pressure campaign of Dr.
Evatt for the complete abolition of the
means-test for age-pensions, and the
Government’s election - promise, since
made good in the Budget, to ease it have
tended to throw into the background
another aspect of the ageing-worker pro-
blem which is becoming increasingly
important. With the advance of medical
science has come a much longer expec-
tation of life, with the result that the pro-
portion of the population over 65 is
higher than at any time in our history
and is growing all the time. The econo-
mic effect of this is to place an increas-
ing strain on the working population,
and although the country has accepted a
moral responsibility to support the
elderly, this should be subjected to some
qualification where the over-65’s are
still fit and willing to support themselves,
but are prevented from doing so by an
arbitrary retiring-age. During the war,
when the manpower shortage was acute,
thousands of retired men took on jobs
suited to their ability and carried them
out satisfactorily, but in recent years
such men have not found it so easy to get
employment.
This year the Commonwealth Employ-
ment Service has been making a drive
to encourage the engagement and con-
tinued employment of men in the higher
age-groups, and the Acting-Minister for
Labor and National Service reports that
the move has had considerable success.
The point stressed —as in the case of
partly disabled workers mentioned re-
cently here —is that this is not philan-
thropy but sheer good business; in the
right job the older men can be every
bit as competent and efficient as the
younger.
To retire or not to retire at 65 is at
question the answer to which depends
largely on the individual and varies from
industry to industry, but the Minister
suggests that employers should ask them-
selves whether a particular retirement is
necessary, and elderly workers should
remember that retirement can be boring,
that it is easier to keep a job than find a
new one, that wages are better than pen-
sion and that the country can still do
with their service.
Pubs and Clubs
After struggling with its collective con-
science for weeks the N. S. Wales
“Labor” Government has made up its
mind on the Clubs and Pubs controversy
—but probably not for long. That the
problem had been troubling Mr. Cahill
at least a little was shown by his out-
burst at a meeting at Drummoyne when
he said, “The newspapers are trying to
split the Labor movement on the question
of drink while the Communist hordes are
marching towards us.” If Mr. Cahill had
given a little more thought to his accu-
sation he might have realised that at the
present time it is hardly necessary to use
the question of drink to split the “Labor”
movement, already almost falling apart
over the actions of its Federal leader.
Still, there is also a split, or at least a
very considerable difference of opinion,
on drink —and it hasn’t been caused by
the newspapers.
At the A.L.P. conference in May two
recommendations were made on the sub-
ject of liquor. One was that hotel closing-
hours should be decided by referendum,
and the other that there should be a sub-
stantial increase in the number of club-
licences, “particularly workers’ and simi-
lar non-proprietary clubs for sporting or
cultural purposes.”
Recently it was announced that the
referendum to be held in November
would determine not only the closing-
time for hotels, but for clubs also. If six-
o’clock closing was to be retained, clubs
also would close at six-o’clock. If hotel-
hours Were extended to 10-o’dock, club
closing-hours would be brought back to
10-o’clock, too. The storm this announce-
ment, provoked was not surprising. The
idea that a referendum ostensibly held
to give the people an opportunity of
voting later htmrs for hotels should be
used to force earlier hours upon clubs is
little short of ludicrous. Liberal and
Country-party intentions to oppose this
measure were at once announced, and
A.L.P. branches all over N. S. Wales
were reported to be protesting against
Cabinet’s decision. It seemed that the
only ones in favor of the Government’s
plan were the liquor interests (who didn’t
admit it) and the temperance advocates
(who did).
Next move was a half-somersault by
Cabinet. It was explained that although
clubs would be joined with pubs in the
referendum, there was no intention of
altering the definitions in the Liquor
Act. The effect of this would be that
whichever way the referendum went
club-members would still be regarded
as “inmates” under a Supreme Court
ruling of 1948 ; their position would be
“as you were.”
This piece of casuistry pleased no one
at all and it spurred the A.L.P. executive
to remind Cahill that under “Labor”
rules it was the real ruler of the State.
A delegation from the executive and
the Trades and Labor Council was to
see the Premier on Monday with the
intention of insisting that the referendum
be confined to hotel closing-hours. For
good measure it also intended to instruct
him to make provision for the issue of
single-bottle licences to grocers. Cahill’s
problem was to decide whether to dis-
please the A.L.P. bosses or the liquor-
trade bosses. It was enough to make any-
one split
A Doctor in the House
Since 1938 there has never been a
Budget-debate into which Parliament put
so little heart and in which the Opposi-
tion seemed so distraught as the present
one. Perhaps the Opposition has one ear
cocked for Dr. Evatt’s next broadside —
and it seems to be concerned as a whole
with his doings, since his telegraphic
approach to the Petrov commission in
Melbourne was made in his capacity as
Leader of the Opposition and of the
Federal Parliamentary Labor party.
Perhaps all its energy is resident in the
absent Doctor. But, whatever the cause,
it is making a poor showing, and Mr.
Calwell’s Budget display consisted of
about the wildest series of ineffective hay-
makers ever aimed in a national contest.
Whereas the 1951 Budget was the
“Horror Budget,” this one is named by
Mr. Calwell the “Starve-the-Pensioner
Budget,” pensioners having become the
only people who seem to matter in
“Labor’s” world.
He declared that “this Government
would not have won the last election if it
had indicated before the election that it
did not intend to increase pensions,”
showing clearly that he believes that
pensioners and their friends are now the
rulers of the country.
Mr. Calwell would have been lavish
with 330,000 pensioners who, he says, have
not benefited under the Menzies scheme.
He would have remitted sales-tax alto-
gether “because we say it is the unfairest
tax of all”—a mere £9O million-odd —
and he scolds Treasurer Fadden for col-
lecting £5OO million more than the Chifley
Government collected and trafficking in
inflation, while at the same time he
accuses it of gambling on a good wool
season to get its revenue.
He says the Government had dissipated
the London balances the Chifley Govern-
ment built up and created a flood of
imports which was only checked by
drastic restrictions, though he fails to
say that the Chifley Government’s prin-
cipal economic adviser kept assuring the
Government that the position was all right
until disaster had almost overtaken the
country.
The Government’s hospital scheme is
no good—it “imposes unfair burdens.”
The increase in employment over the
year is not an increase at all, and there
are actually “several hundred thousand”
somewhere who have to be “brought
back into the employment field” if we are
to increase production.
Moreover, in defence the Government
is a complete flop—it has “obsolete arms
and equipment in all the services.” And
in the northern part of Australia there is
“no defence at all.”
There is certainly, on the evidence of
some of the rubbish talked about the
Budget by the acting-leader of the ragged
mess that now calls itself the Federal
Labor party, need for a doctor in the
House; but not Doctor Evatt. What is
obviously needed is a good alienist.
A Bit Each Way
“In the ACT”: For a majority of the
“Labor” caucus in Canberra, principles
matter less than expediency, which is an
unhealthy political state. A number of
caucus-members felt that their leader
should not have betaken himself to the
Petrov commission without consulting
them, and many, even last week, felt
that his action would damage the party.
But in spite of moves to call him to
account, a decision was deferred while
the outcome was awaited. This means
that if Dr, Evatt scores some more-or-
less spectacular coup before the commis-
sion, his absence and actions will presum-
ably be cordially approved ; but that if
he fails to do so he will pay the common
penalty of failure.
The background of this absorbing and
not entirely unexpected drama is
“Labor’s” attempt to drag the Security
Service into the political arena and attack
it there, “in parallel with a campaign in
another place,” to use the words of the
Prime Minister. This is in line with Dr.
Evatt’s hints of “something bigger,”
which he presumably believes will explain
his frequent references to “conspiracy”
and “blackmail,” and could well be linked
with the extraordinary outburst in the
House of Representatives when he
charged the Government with having
bought the Petrov documents “for the
purpose of unduly and improperly in-
fluencing the people of Australia at the
general election.” The climax of all this
cannot be far away.
It is not possible to anticipate what
may yet be revealed before the commis-
sion, but most “Labor” members are
probably beginning to wonder about Dr.
Evatt s Parliamentary outburst, even if
they have been persuaded earlier that
by intervention in the commission’s
proceedings their leader might be
able to prevent the threatened complete
schism in the party at Canberra. Their
reaction this week may be decisive. Some
little fuither delay may be needed to
clarify the results of the Evatt bid, but
if the upshot is its public and resounding
failure, then the vestiges of restraint left
m the party will disappear. In this stormy
prospect caucus-members should remem-
ber that a democracy’s instincts are
sound, even if its processes are some-
times slow, and that in the long-run there
is neither fame nor future for those who
resemble the objects of Burke’s famous
and biting phrase—“those vulgar and
mechanical politicians who think that
nothing exists but what is gross and
material.”
Dr. Evatt and Document J
The whole of the past week at the Royal
Commission on Espionage has been given
over to the matter of the authorship of
Document J, the 37-page “farrago of
facts, falsity and filth,” as Mr. Windeyer,
Q.C., described it, which Petrov handed
to the Security authorities.
Mrs. Petrov gave evidence on July 8 in Mel-
bourne that she saw Rupert Lockwood, a well-
known member of the Communist party, typing
the document in the Soviet Embassy at Can-
berra on three separate days and for perhaps
12 to 15 hours altogether; that each day
Antonov handed her what he had typed that
day to put in the M.V.D. safe; that the work
started, she thought, at a weekend; that when
the work was finished “Antonov gave him
money for travelling and then gave him £3O
when he finished the work and several bottles
of brandy, I think.” Lockwood did not want
to take the money, but Antonov persuaded him
saying “But you have had expenses,” and Lock-
wood said, “All right, I shall take it for as
much as I have spent and the rest I shall
return to you.”
Lockwood this week in evidence admitted he
had gone to Canberra on May 22, 1953—which
coincided with a period which Mrs. Petrov
identified by saying that her husband was in
hospital at the time; that Antonov met him
and drove him round Canberra in a car with
a driver which he took to be an Embassy car;
that he wrote documents for three days in the
Embassy in company with Antonov, whom he
supplied with them along with a large quantity
of newspaper-cuttings; but that, though some
of the material in Document J came from
these documents, he did not write Document J,
which was a composite of the material he had
supplied with other material which he had not
seen.
He, however, refused to indicate what parts
of J he had written and what parts he had not.
He had supplied the material to Antonov, he
said, for hjs personal guidance and to “help
him protect himself against international reper-
cussions in the country that was to be the
host of the Russian athletes at the 1956 Olympic
Games.” He said that “Antonov thought he
might be led into a trap, and the information
was given for his use alone.” He added:
“If I had thought the material was to
be sent to the Soviet Government or to
the Security Police, I would have fainted
with horror I did not know there could
be a Petrov in this w0r1d....1 did not
dream that it would be later used to black-
mail the entire Australian Labor movement.
I think something funny has been going
on.”
He admitted that he had been in company
with Dr. Evatt’s press-secretary, Mr. O’Sullivan,
and his assistant-secretary, Mr. Grundeman, on
the day he arrived in Canberra and after he
left Antonov. But he said that it had not
been suggested to him that Mrs. McDonnell,
at whose house all three had dined —Grunde-
man was staying there —was a worker for the
Communist party. He denied that either
Dalziel or Grundeman had given him any
of the information which he had passed on to
Antonov. And he also denied that he had
received any money or brandy from Antonov
or Mrs. Petrov.
At a later stage Detective-Inspector Rogers,
the N. S. Wales police handwriting-expert,
gave evidence of uniformly similar peculiarities
in typing in Document J and in specimens or
Lockwood’s manuscript unrelated to it whicn
Lockwood had himself supplied. He said that
it was his opinion that Lockwood had typeu
the whole of Document J. He could not find
anything to indicate that Fergan O Sullivan
had typed any part of Document J, or any or
the peculiarities which he had found commo
to Document J and .to Lockwood s admitted
typings in Document H which was admittedly
written by O'Sullivan or in other document
typed by O’Sullivan. ... ,
The main interest m the inquiry was, how
ever, in Dr. Evatt’s appearance for his two
secretaries, Dalziel and Grundeman. .
On July 15, following evidence, the chairman
of the commission, Mr. Justice Owen, said or
Document J:
“I think it is right that we should say
that we do not find anything in this docu-
ment which reflects on the Leader of me
Opposition. What disturbs us is that the
document quotes as sources on various
matters, some of which are of a confidentia
nature, three members of the secretariat ot
the Leader of the Opposition, mcluding n
that three O’Sullivan, I think I should
make that clear.” .
On the following day die comnussioi
received a telegram signed Herbert Evatt
Leader of the Opposition and of the Federa
Parliamentary Labor Party,” protesting agai
“the defamatory and injurious imputations
(which) appear to have been made without any
evidentiary support” against members of his
Sta On August 24 Dr. Evatt said that there were
portions of Document J which could only
derive from O’Sullivan, and this was evident
(i Continued on next page )


from the style and the method, the ignorance
shown of Australian history. He declared that
while the evidence so far was that the author-
ship of J was solely Lockwood’s work, “we
will submit evidence that this is not so, and
that the Petrovs must have been aware of it.
My submission will be that the typing in
Document J is intended to confuse and deceive.”
On the following day Mr. Meagher, appear-
ing for O’Sullivan, said he wanted to know if
Dr. Evatt alleged that O’Sullivan wrote more
than page 35, and added that it was fair to
assume that the allegations against O’Sullivan
were not made on behalf of either Grundeman
or Dalziel—Grundeman, in fact, said in the
box that O’Sullivan could not have had some
of the information given on p. 35. Dalziel
has not yet given evidence.
Mr. Meagher said that if the suggestion were
made on Dr. Evatt's behalf it should be made
clear, adding: “There is nothing to support the
allegations Dr. Evatt has made.” Dr. Evatt
replied:
“The submissions I have made in this
case have been put forward as counsel for
my two clients. It is my submission that
there was a deliberate conspiracy to injure
the Leader of the Opposition by defaming
his staff, that is, making them informers
to Russians.”
Mr. Justice Owen later said to Dr. Evatt:
“You are appearing for two clients, one
of whom has said that certain information
in Document J was not known to O’Sulli-
van. The issue is complicated by this fact.
You, as counsel for A and B, are alleging
that there was some deliberate conspiracy
to injure you personally ”
To which Dr. Evatt added:
“By injuring my staff.”
The chairman said it was a strange position
—an embarrassing position for everybody, and
Mr. Meagher declared that he was prepared to
take every line of Document J at the moment
and show that this charge against O’Sullivan
was complete nonsense.
On Friday of last week, while Dr. Evatt
was cross-examining Inspector Rogers, Mr.
Justice Ligertwood said that the Doctor had
mentioned a conspiracy, and he wanted per-
sonally to find out who were supposed to be
in the conspiracy. He said that in cross-examin-
ing Mr. Richards, Deputy-Director of Security,
Dr. Evatt had indicated that Mr. Richards was
one of the hypothetical conspirators, and
Colonel Spry, Director of Security, another,
and that “since you say O’Sullivan is the author
of J I suppose he was also one of the con-
spirators." Dr. Evatt replied warmly:
“This is not hypothetical. I will say that
J is a fabricated document, a concoction
that was brought together at the time it was
handed to Mr. Richards, I will say that
it was a document that was not what it
appears to be today.”
Mr. Justice Ligertwood asked what its hypo-
thetical purpose might be, and Dr. Evatt
declared that “this document came from
Petrov.” It was one of the documents for
which he received £5OOO and he was “certainly”
in the conspiracy, too.
When Mr, Justice Ligertwood asked: “Then
you allege that the conspiracy was between the
Security Service and the Petrovs? For what
purpose?” he replied: ‘To bring into existence
a document which could be sold for £5OOO and
which would be attractive to certain persons
who might feel it was their duty to buy it. I
feel it is not right to put me into the position
of having to answer these questions.” And he
said heatedly later, during the attempts of the
Bench to induce him to clarify the “embarrassing
position that you appear to be appearing for
yourself,” that he deeply resented this sugges-
tion which had “come from the Bar-table,”
and that this surely was “one of the most
base conspiracies which the court could investi-
gate,” and he “was entitled to expose it."
Mr. Meagher asked, since he assumed from
Dr. Evatt’s remarks that he was making a
charge of forgery against O’Sullivan, that if
any charges were made against his client they
should be made in open court before a jury—
a procedure which Dr. Evatt constantly urged
should be adopted in such cases. He appealed
to Dr. Evatt to make his allegations clearly and
definitely. Dr. Evatt said he would produce
evidence and make the position clear at the
proper time.
He proceeded to cross-examine Inspector
Rogers laboriously on markings on Document
J; but at the weekend no further light had
been thrown on the identity of the supposed
conspirators.
POLITICAL POINTS
Evatt’s absence from Canberra gave
Calwell his long-sought opportunity to
deliver the Opposition’s No. 1 financial
speech of the year. If he was proud of
the fist he made of it he must be even
less of a financial expert than he seems to
be. He described the Budget as a “Starve-
the-Pensioner Budget,” and his whole
speech did little more than amplify that
theme. What sort of a Treasurer would
this man make who can seriously pretend
to believe that the whole financial struc-
ture of the country revolves around
pension-payments?
• •
The Attlees, who are scheduled to reach
Sydney next Wednesday morning, will
have five days in Australia. They will
be in Canberra from Wednesday to
Friday, will weekend in Melbourne and
leave for N.Z. on Monday, September 13.
Functions in Canberra include a Com-
monwealth luncheon and a “Labor”
dinner on September 9.
• •
Symptomatic of the cleavage in the
Federal “Labor” party was the thinly-
veiled attack of Mullens, M.H.R., on
Attlee’s visit to Peking. He said he was
amazed at the unsophisticated and super-
ficial innocence of those who referred to
“nationalist movements in J South-East
Asia.” The remainder of his comments
had direct application to the British
Labor leader, but this one accurately
described sentiments expressed by many
of his own colleagues.
• •
It was an exaggeration on the part of
Liberal-party president Lyle Moore to
say that all responsible-minded citizens
would be shocked by the appointment of
Cahill’s private-secretary as Director of
State Lotteries. Responsible-minded
citizens long ago ceased to be shocked by
Cahill appointments. But they retain the
faculty of being disgusted. Mr. Tallentire
is probably an efficient public servant, but
how many of his colleagues, equally
efficient, have been passed over in order
to give him a plum?
Cahill’s disregard for public feeling as
shown by the Tallentire appointment is
matched by his disregard for the private
feelings of outgoing Lotteries chief,
Marcus Quinlin, given a week’s notice
after 12 years in the job;
• •
A frock-designer and a tailor have
defeated two retiring councillors, knight
George Wales and W. R. Crichton, in a
by-election to the Melbourne City
Council. If the two are given their heads
they should be able to design and produce
robes that will make Melbourne Bumbles
things of beauty and joy for ever.
• •
Members of all parties in the House
of Reps are waiting with what the
schoolboy called “baited breath” for the
census figures which will show whether
Queensland will lose a seat in the pend-
ing redistribution, and, if so, whether the
loose seat will go to Victoria or to South
Australia. There have even been sug-
gestions from interested quarters that
southerners who spent their winter holi-
days (including the night of June 30) in
Queensland should be allowed to trans-
fer, statistically speaking, to their home-
States —but obviously the census com-
pilation is complicated enough without
introducing such a proposal,
• •
In connection with the projected tour
of Sydney aldermen to study parking
arrangements in other countries. Red
Alderman Wright suggested that Moscow
should be included in the itinerary. One
point they might decide while in Moscow
is how many parking-tickets a motorist
has to collect before qualifying for a
one-way ticket to Siberia.
• •
Four Indonesian transport officials are
visiting Australia under the Colombo
Plan to study transport-administration.
On arrival their leader said: “In
Djakarta we hear that Sydney’s transport
is so good, so smooth-running We
now come to learn how to run them [the
buses] on the same system as the Sydney
system.” The first lesson, it is under-
stood, will be given by officials of the
A.E.U.
• t
New Zealand is to have a general elec-
tion on November 13. Present state of
parties: National, 50; Labor, 30.
• t
Parliament House grapevine in Can-
berra reports some official probing of the
duties of persons classified (and paid)
as “assistant secretaries,” and of the
ordering of cars by such underlings to
convey them to and from airports, rail-
way-stations and elsewhere. Even if the
report isn’t correct, it ought to be.
• •
N. S. Wales Minister for Mines does
not expect his State coalmines to be
affected by any falling-off in the demand
for coal. He says the Awaba mine will
supply increased quantities to Wangi
power-station, and if the output of
Lithgow were to be increased by 300 per
cent, the railways could take it all.
According to the Northern Collieries
Association, coal from the State mine at
Lithgow is sold to the railways at 70s. a
ton, while two adjoining privately owned
mines supply it at 50s. and 375. lOd. a ton
respectively.
• •
At the end of July the Commonwealth
Employment Service was seeking people
to fill 46,238 vacancies for jobs, including
34,152 for males. There was an increase
in the month in vacancies for youths,
especially for clerks and other office-
NOT LIKE THE RAILWAYS
“You know the trouble with this car, Bert? It’s too successful!”
workers, shop-assistants and dairy-hands.
For women there were fewer vacancies
for textile-workers and private domestics,
but more for typists and domestic staffs in
hotels and guest-houses.
There were 21,210 applicants for posi-
tions registered with the C.E.S. at the
end of July, compared with 34,773 in
January. In the same period the number
of persons receiving unemployment-
benefit payments dropped from 11,878 to
5363.
• •
S.A. Director of Mines S. B. Dickinson,
in his annual report to Parliament, has
repeated the suggestion he made a year
ago that the S.A. Government should
bring pressure to bear upon the B.H.P.
Co. to establish a steel industry at
Whyalla. Protesting that his State’s iron-
ore resources are being depleted to build
up industry in New South Wales, he urges
that
the Government would be fully justified
in taking over B.H.P.’s leases and the com-
pany’s iron-ore production-plant and equip-
ment if the company is unable to give any
guarantees on the establishment of a steel
plant at Whyalla.
Dickinson says he believes that steel-
production can be carried out more
efficiently by private enterprise than by a
Government, but that “if the B.H.P.
persists with its policy of expanding its
steel industry outside South Australia
the Government should consider taking
over the production of iron-ore.”
Premier Playford’s comment is that Mr.
Dickinson’s report does not reflect the
views of his Government, which has no
intention of repudiating its agreement with
the B.H.P. on its iron-ore leases. How-
ever, this does not prevent negotiation,
and directors of the company will shortly
be visiting South Australia for discussion
on the subject of establishing a steelworks,
• •
A suggestion that control of shopping-
hours should be handed over to local-
government bodies was promptly rejected
by the Cahill Government; it didn’t suit
Ernie Q’Dea and his Shop Assistants’
union. But the councils aren’t to be
entirely disregarded; the Governor’s
speech at the opening of Parliament
announced legislation to amend the
Noxious Trades Act to give them control
of horse-meat shops.
• JL
“Stromlo”; Sausage-casings are the
subject of an 18-page report by the
Tariff Board, which has heard a lot of
evidence and made a lot of inquiries,
and now announces that the annual
demand is for about 1,050,000 bundles,
each 100 yards long. The report deals
in official language with the popularity
of hog-casings for frying sausages, with
the buyer - preference for “thick”
sausages, and with the influence of sheep-
casings on the supply situation. It sug-
gests that in a national emergency Aus-
tralia could manage without imported
sausage-skins, but that in the light of
costs and of customers’ preferences the
country cannot produce enough hog-
casings, sheep-casings and split-ox-run-
ners to meet “the full Australian require-
ments.” The board feels that maximum
importations of hog-casings from dollar
sources should be fixed at 350,000
bundles a year, and that the duty should
not be varied. So when you find a skinny
sausage or a tough-skinned one under
the tomato-sauce don’t put all the blame
on the butcher.
• •
When Mullens, M.H.R., asked Trea-
surer Fadden if the Government pro-
posed to do anything to protect the public
from professional manipulators who were
making fortunes out of speculating in oil-
and uranium-shares, S’Artie replied that
the Government could not act as guard-
ian for these people. He added, “The
birds and possums are protected, but not
the mugs.”
• •
At a secret meeting the Victorian
L.-C.P. rejected a proposal that the Holl-
way rebels should be readmitted to the
fold. Reported vote: 397 to 6.
• •
From George Mulgrue, chief of the in-
formation service, Food and Agriculture
Organisation, Rome, under date of July
8:
I feel that your correspondent (“Dali in
Rome,” B. 23/6/’54) must have set down his
piece immediately after a deep sleep during
the siesta period he so feelingly describes; there
is no other possible explanation for the dream-
like and utterly unreal picture of FAO [Food
and Agriculture Organisation of the United
Nations],
And those pamphlets; a pity they were lost,
for had he read them instead of giving play to
his dreamtime fantasies, he would know that
it is no part of FAO’s business to delouse
peasants, in Peru or anywhere else. The talk
of air-conditioned rooms borders somewhat on
my own dreaming as I sit sweltering here on
this blazing Rome afternoon. No siestas for the
V ‘o™ttoTCr y i would like to have been
described—no less accurately — as one who used
to be a story-writer for The Bulletin.
#
“Melbn”: The Rev. Irving Bensoi^
Melbourne’s journalistic parson, disclosed
the horrifying intelligence that at a State
school in an eastern suburb “What I
would do if I won Tatt.’s” was set as the
subject for an essay. The headmaster of
the school disclaimed any responsibility ;
the question had been set by a person,
not a trained teacher, sent along by the
Education Department, and he had done
« agamst his—the headmaster’s—express
written instructions. It was certainly a
problem for the head. As an education-
allst he might deplore the subject, but
as a public servant how could he impute
any stain upon the character of the insti-
J* r - P“ ched from Mr:
®
• •
Since the war (he ant | iners Queen
M and Queen Elizabeth have JJ rned
more a a ers across (he
Atlantic , 0 f this total the Lizzie carried
, 42 363 in the , two
"*" “ du ' ta « £t


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
SYDNEY “Sun-Herald” lately con-
ducted a quiz of sorts among what
is generally described as “a cross-section
of the public.” It asked “Who, what or
where are: Pandit Nehru, Gene Krupa,
Chou En-lai, Seato, U.L.V.A., Vladimir
Petrov, Shirley Beiger, Johnnie Ray,
Eddie Ward* Roger Bannister?” The
answers, particularly from young people,
were illuminating. One thought the
U.L.V.A. was “like UNRRA”; another
said Eddie Ward was the “lightweight
champion of Australia”; someone else
described Nehru as a Mau Mau chief ;
and Seato was accused of being “some
kind of temperance organisation” and
“an American radio- or television-star.”
There was, however, no hesitation in
identifying Johnnie Ray, Gene Krupa,
and Miss Beiger. The “Sun-Herald”
found the results of its quiz “astonishing”
and “even frightening.” Probably it is
frightening that the younger generation
know so little about matters of conse-
quence and so much about crooners,
drummers, models hnd the like: but I feel
that the most revealing question would
have been: “Where and how do you
acquire such knowledge?”—“Coongan.”
❖ ❖
“Contact”: Hope the “invasion of
Maroubra” filming (B, 4/8/’54) went off
more smoothly than that of the Kings-
ford Smith opus at Richmond (N.S.W.)
aerodrome. The scene called for Smithy
to sadly salute his old Southern Cross
as it was wheeled away to take its place
in the National Museum. So help me,
Ron Randall saluted that kite all after-
noon. First there was a shine on his
nose and the make-up man had to apply
powder. By that time the sun had shifted,
and another character had to move lights
around. Then the salute wasn’t military
enough, or sad enough. One of the extras
forming the crowd for-
got that he was only to
look as if he were cheer-
ing (the sound would be
dubbed-in on the sound-
track later), and let out
a whoop that drowned
Smithy’s speech. When
the film finally hit the
local cinema, I waited
anxiously to see how that
scene would justify all
the sweating and swear-
ing that went into it.
They didn’t use it!
*X* ❖ ❖
“Operus”: Victoria,
always a stronghold of
culture, lately published,
on Melbourne “Her-
ald’s” front page, the
musical chords emitted
by its trains as a warning
of their approach. A
try-out of these chords
on the piano will prove
them hideous: but this,
after all, is a hallmark of con-
temporary music. It behoves our
composers to avail themselves of
this material so generously made
available by Victoria’s railways. They
should not allow themselves to be out-
done by Mr. George Antheil, a U.S. com-
poser who ventured to write a symphony
that included a part for aeroplane-
propeller.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Muskeen”: Met an old-soldier mate
the other day and couldn’t refrain from
remarking on his bow-tie, which was
the ribbon of the Africa Star. He in-
formed me that he never wore any other
type of neckwear. A veteran of two wars,
he’s entitled to the ribbons of one decora-
tion and nine campaign stars and medals.
He wears a different ribbon daily, com-
mencing the cycle with his decoration-
ribbon and donning the others in rota-
tion according to precedence.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Colac”; The Australian accent (B.
4/8/’54)? The best way to hear it is by
radio, without special filters. When we
were operating as a unit of the U.S.
Seventh Fleet, the radio-phone channels
were usually jammed with American
voices day and night, but as soon as a
Wallaby chimed-in you could pick him
through all the babble. Off Hollandia,
with the band particularly active, a raw
Orstrilian voice kept calling the shore-
station, and annoyed the Yanks con-
siderably, until an irate Ally barked :
“Will you goddam furriners gidoff the
air!” And while we’re on the subject
could someone clear the air for me—'
“ I've got a horrible suspicion this has been done before somewhere .”
who owned the voice that for four years
called “King to Mike, King to Mike,”
without ceasing, from 100 miles out of
Milne Bay until we had cleared China
Passage? Nobody ever answered, and
I’ve always supposed the operator either
died of frustration, or was doomed to
stay there for eternity, frantically calling
“King to Mike.”
♦j« vj* *!♦
“Sebak”: A house with a varied and
cosmopolitan history still stands in
Albion-street, in Sydney’s Darlinghurst.
Originally built by the Andersens, a
family of hat-manufacturers who brought
"I'll take them in when they're dry.”
their craft from Scotland and used it to
good purpose in making the Aussie hats
for the South African contingents, the
fine old home was bought by the German
Club in 1911. A commemorative tablet
bearing the names of the initial members
is still embedded in the wall of the big
hall; the stage put in by the Germans
still exists, but that essential to German
amusement, the skittle-alley, has gone.
In World War II the building was con-
fiscated ; it became the George Washing-
ton Booker Club for colored U.S. ser-
vicemen. Around the frieze of one large
room all four walls are still covered with
murals of Walt Disney’s Bambi in
appropriate settings—testimony to the
artistic skill of some unknown cullud
pusson. The old mansion next became
the headquarters of the British Naval
Police, who, no doubt, were the original
owners of the paintings depicting two
admirals which still adorn the mantel-
piece. And, after all that, the historic
old place is now the Government garage,
sleek departmental cars standing in rows
on the dance-floor where, no doubt,
Scotties reeled, Germans caroused,
Negroes jitter bugged and “crushers” —
well, what did crushers do in their lighter
moments?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pip Tok”: The young lady working
out a chess-problem during a ride in a
Toorak tram (B. 11/8/’54) had a parallel
at the opposite end of the social scale in
Perth. Four men were up for house-
breaking ; one of the Crown witnesses
was a lady of the demi-monde —ersatz
golden hair, technicolored face and well-
filled nylons. The accused were alleged
to have parked portion of the loot in her
bedroom. All the time his Honor was
summing-up she sat in the front of the
witnesses’ seats, working out the after-
noon paper’s crossword-puzzle, with a
tough-looking C. 1.8, man looking over
her shoulder to see how she was getting
on.
* ❖ *
“Spokeshave”: Fashionable hobby of
my childhood was not stamps but match-
box labels. Manufacturers in those days
vied with one another in issuing the
tastiest labels; some I had would have
qualified for the Wynne Prize. I was
more fortunate than my fellow-philatel-
ists, in having for next-door neighbors
a commercial-traveller who supplied me
with reproductions of the latest issues,
sometimes three-feet-by-two, taken from
the wrappings. Had the fashion not died
out I might now be the proud possessor
of one of the only two examples of B. and
M.’s first issue, the owner of the other
being President Eisenhower. “Suther-
land” (B. 18/8/’54) wonders what feeling
prompts the philatelist to collect, at great
cost and with much labor, small squares,
triangles and oblongs of assorted paper?
The same feeling that prompts a young
man to select a girl who, with him, will
make the handsomest couple on the ball-
room floor.
“P.0.M.C.”: While antiquity and
scarcity generally govern catalogue-prices,
and therefore are the main sources of
collector-value in postage-stamps, quick
profits may be made by shrewd dealers
or collectors with comparatively new
issues. For example, a gentle-voiced
Englishman late of this life and of Royal
Arcade, Sydney, was reputed to have paid
for more than one trip abroad soley out
of the difference between face- and cata-
logue-value of mint Australian com-
memoratives in England. During his last
sojourn there, he cabled a Sydney friend
to buy on his behalf several sheets of the
Tasmanian sesquicen tenary green 25.,
then current. Subsequently he retailed
all but three of these stamps singly at 6s.
each! The taint of the gamble never
enters intelligent philatelic transactions;
undamaged mint specimens always retain
at least their face-value. Anyway, isn’t
it rather presumptuous to label stamp-
collecting as a vague or futile pursuit
when firms like Harmers admit to a
£1,000,000-a-year turnover.
*4f
“Chevroford”: Few would deny that
the 30 m.p.h. rule in Melbourne is work-
ing. Accidents have fallen off, drivers
have lost their anxious expressions and
pedestrians look placid and contented.
Some purveyors of high-powered cars
don’t seem to be so happy. One is advis-
ing customers to buy vehicles of 50 h.p.
because, although the machine may be
doing 50, the engine is only running at
32. I can’t quite see their logic or pro-
phesy how it would impress a traffic-cop.
TRANSPORTS
• “Four young Indonesian transport-officials
have flown to Sydney to learn how to run 100
Sydney buses they have bought, ‘on the same
system as the Sydney system.’ ”
You’re learning transport, eh, from us?
This here’s a double-decker bus —
What’s that you say ?
I asked you whether
The top and bottom move together ?
They mayn’t be much, but —have a
heart ! —
They’ve never fallen quite apart;
Our workshops, when they work at all,
Dislike to have such things befall.
Such clever things are known and done,
I thought perhaps the top alone.
Worked, shall I say, on wireless wires.
Might save on fuel and on tyres . . .
Merely a little thought of mine —
This bus starts when ?
Eleven-nine.
i
The time is now four-thirty-three !
There’s been a little hold-up, see ?
Last week the drivers went on strike
Because of something they don’t like.
They will come back ?
I cannot say.
Oh, what an economic way
To run your transport! No time lost!
No wear-and-tear ! No fuel-cost!
We’ll double our bus-order now
And leave them on the streets to show
How Sydney men can still impart a
Wrinkle to us in Djakarta.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
"Feather Your Nest"
CAPITAL ADVICE... BUT HOW?
In the coming Bulletin serial of that
title, E. O. Schlunke tells how one of his
characters—a determined, ruthless and in
his way very human and certainly lifelike
grazier type —went about it.
The leading character, Kraftmann, man-
ages things more than well, too, until one
of his daughters and \ her accountant boy-
friend—
But that is anticipating the story.
The novel’s scene is the N.S.W. Riverina
and thereabouts, linked to the city by another
of the Kraftmann girls, whose line is teach-
ing, or getting Big Names to teach, ambiti-
ous stage and concert aspirants.
These and the other characters are all of
them drawn with humor and with the
special knowledge E. O. Schlunke has as him-
self a present-day man on the land familiar
with the city. They include a New Aus-
tralian, with a touch of humor all his own,
who gets mixed-up in the thick of the plot
in the course of selling “Old Masters” to
new-rich graziers.
"Feather Your Nest"
Begins in “The Bulletin”
September 15.


MY nomination for the height of im-
probability. I reside at No. 3 in our
street. I suggest no hoodoo on the house
nor jinx on me, but the odds against my
winning Sydney’s lottery at this address
must be almost incalculable—previous
first-prize winners live at Nos. 5 and 7. —
“P. Mac.”
* ❖ *
“L.F.L.”: That course in midwifery
for the police force would have been
welcomed by one member of it (B.
18/8/’54). A lad put his head through a
circular hole in the iron framework in
the side of a bridge, then lifted his chin
the better to see ships below. When
these passed, he found he could not get
his head back. A passer-by
called a policeman, who cheer-
fully went about the task of
extrication. A motorist offered
to help, but was given short
shrift and went on his way. Re-
turning later, the rejected one
saw a scarlet-faced and coatless
policeman, and the pale limp
figure of the lad, with head still
encased. The constable glared
at him, and said, “Oh, it’s you
again, is it? Well, see what you
can do now!” There before his
gaze the head was delivered,
neatly and effortlessly; where-
upon the accoucheur explained,
“You see, constable, I’m a doc-
tor, and by pushing his chin on
his chest, you have the present-
ing part of the head in its
smallest diameter. Any more
jobs like this and I’ll have to
recommend that the force has a
course in the mechanisms of
midwifery.”
❖
“Pawang”: A contributor to
the “Australian Medical Jour-
nal” has joined ten-thousand
others by having a go at the
meaning of the Mona Lisa
smile. It expresses, it seems,
“a state of double-mindedness
in a reciprocating combination
of two hemilateral expressions,”
this due to Leonardo’s discover-
ing (in a pre-scientific and pre-
physiological age) that “even the face
utilises a complex of reciprocating
excitation and inhibition in its subtleties
of expression.” It might be so —
or the smile might be a simple
memory of Leonardo’s mother, which is
what Freud thought. Leonardo was an
illegitimate child, who early in life was
taken from his plebeian mother and
adopted by his lawyer-father when his
wife proved childless. Madame Lisa di
Anton Maria may have reminded him
of his mother—at any rate, he became
so obsessed with the smile he had put
into the celebrated portrait that he put it
intq almost every other face he painted,
including several male ones. In that case
the smile might be maternal, which
makes poppycock of all the strange and
sinister interpretations.
“Spin”: A habit fast dying out in
Westralia is reading the morning paper
at breakfast. Once a man could prop the
paper on the sugar-basin, munch steadily,
and read. He got most of the news on
the front-pages and his hands were free
for feeding. Now the news is scattered
throughout the journal, sandwiched be-
tween advertisements which are given
more prominence than anything short
of a declaration of war, and which are
more carefully composed than the news
—advertisements must be accurate. It’s
a move which defeats its purpose. Since
I can’t eat and turn pages at the same
time I have to depend on the wife or the
A.B.C. to keep me abreast of the times.
Possibly I’m not missing much, but if the
trend continues my son will. He’ll never
know the peace which settles on a man
as he sits down to breakfast in the
seclusion which can only be found behind
a wide-spread news-sheet.
♦♦♦ ♦+♦ , ♦♦♦
“M.A.W.”: Warren Denning on the
heavy London traffic in “This England,
1954” (B. 4/8/’s4)—“There is no known
way of keeping appointments unless one
begins walking at dawn and camping
eh route’’ What about the Tube? With
less than fifteen minutes up my sleeve I’ll
guarantee to keep appointments in any
part of London, The pride of London
and envy of the world, that underground
system can be recommended as a sure
way of moving about London without
waste of time; with reasonable comfort
and at a fraction of the cost of taxis.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Capricorn”: A male matron (hospital
variety) is reported in the U.K. His
staff are tortured with doubts as to how
to address him. Outside the Navy, the
British trait of. stickling for etiquette (if
the phrase may be so conjugated) is
nowhere more sharply delineated than
within the starchy precincts of a U.K.
hospital. Having farewelled my appendix
in just such a haunt of refined antiseptics,
I still quiver at the memory of a kind
but genteel nurse who bombarded
patients with the decidedly ambiguous
query: “Do you need a receptacle?”
❖ •£♦
“Pawang”: “Viper” (B. 18/8/’54) con-
siders an undressed human, generally
speaking, less inflammatory, than a dressed
one. He thus agrees with the nudists, who
maintain that nakedness is not erotic, and
that that is the chief justification for their
cult. The same could be said about a
dish of roast pork. The sight of it can be
enjoyed, apart from the appetite it
arouses, for its beauty of form and color ;
but a nudist wouldn’t place dishes of pork
about his house merely to prove to him-
self that he can look at it without want-
ing to eat. If the sight of a pork-chop
when he was hungry didn’t arouse a
desire to eat it, we would conclude either
that pork-chops had unfortunate asso-
ciations for him or that there was some-
thing physically the matter with him.
Why has the nudist exactly the reverse
opinion about the human body? The
American parson who gate-crashed a
nudist camp burning with moral fury
was far more logical than the nudists.
His church would say that the flesh is
alluring, but that it is evil, because it
tends to divert the individual from con-
templation of his last end, and for that
reason must be resisted. It wouldn’t say
that there is nothing there to resist, as do
the nudists. “Viper” mentions Freud.
Freud would say that the nudists’ atti-
tude was an evasion of their real feel-
ings ; and that evasion is at the root
of most neurosis.
"My wife doesn't understand me. She's a New Australian."
“B. A. Ker”: It’s marvellous what a
fellow will put up with, rather than cause
a disturbance. The dame behind me in
the back-stalls was a chatterbug of the
worst type. During the newsreel she
brought her feminine companion up-to-
date with the local chitchat, at the same
time reading aloud the legends painted
on various cars in the Redex Trial.
Through the main film she kept up a
continual commentary and a
non of what would happen mterspiced
with identification of each actor as he
appeared and a sunmiary of his previous
successes, or failures. And through it
aU I sat and squirmed and fidgeted, and
wouided that my tongue could utter the
thoughts that arose in me. Suddenly her
voice took on a new, aggrieved tone: “X
wish that man in fronfwould keep his
head still I” Yes, marvellous what a fellow
will put up with rather than cause a
j- .
„
*** * v
Browninq's House, Florence
3 .
T'HE crooked, white-haired old lady in
the pensione prefers Tennyson to
Browning. Well, she has had a long,
strange, lonely life in boarding-houses in
Florence since her parents lost their
money on the tea-plantation in Ceylon,
so I forgive her.
But really it is extraordinary how dimly
shines that great sun of the Victorians,
The sun-tanned American girl at the
table with the old lady promises to read
at least the last two volumes of The Ring
and the Book —the masterpiece which
Browning began in this very city, to
finish seven years later in London. She
half-believes me when I say that, on
those two volumes alone. Browning
stands next to Shakspeare in English
literature; she means well, but all the
same she won’t read them. As for the
two pretty girls at Radio Florence, to
whom I am trying to explain that I
should like to sell an adaptation of The
Ring and the Book, they are convinced
that I want to meet Roberrt Brrowning
and send for the director of the radio to
ask who he is.
He, at least, knows the famous poeta
Inglese, who lived in Firenze in the last
century. And so does the white-haired
old lady at least know where Browning
lived: it was in the via Maggio; and
that is across the river, near the Palazzo
If I had had The Ring and the Book
with me I should not have needed these
directions, for, of course, there is that
marvellous description, step by step, of
his route through Florence, °f how he
picked up m the market-place The Old
Yellow Book” from which he took his
story, feeling that a divine hand had
thrust it into his own, and walked away
in rapture with it, reading it all the way
through the streets, past the melon-stalls,
the stone fountains, the palaces, the
sculpture of Cellini and Michelangelo,
across the home.
Nobody could possibly read a book
through the streets of Florence today.
Ten-thousand motor-cycles, all with the
silencers removed to make more noise
r ? a j through R nrnP on.
shade less madly than m Rome. One step
off the toot-wide footpath, one moment
of forgetfulness at a corner and you will
read no more ; unless, if you are lucky,
in hospital.
But Browning’s market-place is still the
same—“buzzing and blaze in Florence’s
noon-tide glare,” an acre of bright
canvas-topped stalls crammed with the
exquisite Florentine leather-work and
silver-ware, with straw hats, with rope-
soled sandals, with cutlery and crockery,
with embroidered blouses and silk under-
wear, with stinking anchovies in rusty
tins, with piled-up red cherries and huge
golden oranges from the south. At the
secondhand bookstall I try my luck, but
the nearest to a gift from heaven that
springs to meet my eye is a work by
Charles Dickens with the strange title of
Dombey and Figlio. Figlio, indeed!
j forget now how Browning crossed
the Arno; but it would almost certainly
have been by the ancient Ponte Vecchio,
st j|| standing intact, though the Germans
j D | ew U p t he other five bridges in their
(he Am . the brid
h inted , houS a„d
landsca^st a (^ntastic br y id of iled .
** • § J
K „ \. ,
whol ‘y to booths displaying
gorgeous Florentine jewellery, the gold
earrings and the intricate silver brace-
J?* 8 only "gM m the centre, where
thare « “ owning between the shops
?" d a stone statue does it look like a
bnd lf at all; and from there you can
see the Arno, wide and green and shallow
as Browning saw it, with the Uffizi Gal-
lery hiding Botticelli’s “Primavera” up-
Stream, and, downstream, fishermen with
long bamboo rods throwing grasshoppers
to the little perch—which, since fish live
to a great age and none of them are ever
caught, may well have looked up from
the water and seen the poet a Inglese walk
by reading “The Old Yellow Book.”
Somebody—the Germans or the Allies
—has done some bombing or demolition-
work down the street to the right of the
bridge in the direction of the via Maggio.
There are raw ruins and broken bricks,
The street, past this brief scar of war,
grows narrow and dirty, walled by tene-
ments. A turn to the left, and it is the
v ] a Maggio, with the tall buildings that
once ranked as palaces now a faded
yellow, all a little tarnished and
crumbling, like everything else in this
town that has not really been alive since
the days of Lorenzo the Magnificent,
One palace still has on it a most curious
decoration of coats-of-arms, frescoed in
silver and grey on the high facade,
Browning lived in a house at the far
end, where the road turns and a few of
Bie locals sit with their wine at tables on
the footpath.
When you turn the corner you realise
why he chose this unlikely-looking spot
j n a bigh narrow street. There was the
wajjf aC ross the Arno ; five minutes along
the city side was the Uffizi, with all the
pa intings on which he based so many of
bj s poems; right at his front door,
though just round the turn of the street,
was the Palazzo di Pitti, the stupendous
pa i a ce of the Medicis, which is another
grea t museum of art and antiquities—
amongst which I am afraid I most en-
joyed an extremely rude fat little marble
p r i ap us, from whose fountain peasants
an( j t heir wives were taking home bottles
wa t e r, believed to have useful proper-
tjes round the palace, running for
m ij es up t h e hills towards the Piazzale
Michelagnolo, are the Bobolini Gar-
where Browning walked amongst
g]- een trees and blackbirds,
j walked into the f oyer of Browning’s
h which wa§ obvious i y sti n occu-
pjed> and fang bell for the porten
Nobody came S H igh up on a niche in
the p J ch was a sr^all bus t of the poet
* n a re ddish marble; prominent on the
waU outside was a ta blet which pro-
cja j med j n it a Ji an “In this house lived
h famous English poetess, Elizabeth
Barrett Brownin |»
DOUGLAS STEWART.
A RISKY BUSINESS
“Factories and workshops apart, the l° w ?
percentage of accidents occur in i
highest in restaurants.” —“ World’s News.
The stenog. her notes may take.
Calmly confident she’ll not
Into strong combustion break
Through her pencil running hot.
As for Claude, the office-boy,
To whom meat-pies are a joy
As great as comics and a puff of weed,
he
No fears need entertain
He’ll get friction of the brain
From letting all his thinking get too
speedy.
But the hash-house is a place
Where the risk is very great
That an accident you face
If you’re dining tete-a-tete.
Patron, near by, w'ields a knife,
And he’s going for his life
On a roast spud with a rind far from
defenceless ;
Knife slips off; spud takes to flight.
You could either lose your sight,
Or the missile score a bull and knock
you senseless.
Swig the soup for which you've called
(You’d expect the stuff half-cold).
And your tonsils you may scald —
It’s an accident, you’re told ...
Yes, it’s true, as they aver,
That more accidents occur
In restaurants than elsewhere; and it
follows
That the vast majority
Of those accidents you see.
The customer eventually swallows.
N.s.w.
S.W.K.


BOOK NOW TO FLY
e
“pressurised”
VISCOUNTS
VISCOUNT SCHEDULES COMMENCE IN NOVEMBER
NNP 50
Tteuna Auafaa£oa •AiAlimzo
mm
BOOKINGS:
TAA offices
all States.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Ex-champion swimmer Sir Frank
Beaurepaire once held no fewer than
eight official world’s records. Now
Beaurepaire Tyres, the firm he founded,
has added another record by drawing
from its moulds its two-millionth tyre,
claimed to be the greatest number of
motor-tyres processed in Australia.
» 0
To millions Jose Iturbi, now touring
Australia under the David Martin-Ker-
ridge house-flag, is best known for the
almost-invariable role he takes in
M.-G.-M. films —the benign pipe-smoking
fairy-godfather who, by granting an audi-
tion at the crucial moment to some Cinder-
ella full of frustrations but much promise
as a singer, gives her the green-light on
the road to stardom. Suave, urbane,
assured, he seems to have been born in
front of a battery of Klieg-lights. But
it was an entirely different Iturbi who
emerged from the wings of Sydney Tivoli
to make his bow in another role he has
been playing for much longer: that of
the concert-pianistl Here he was ortho-
doxy personified. Short and plump, he
unleashed a shy, rather nervous smile
before he flung his tails back and settled
down to the classical masters. And even
when he responded to thunderous
applause with encore after encore (surely
PIANO
the most generous in this respect Sydney
has ever heard) the shy smile never
expanded. Spanish-born Iturbi first
assaulted a piano at three. At 12 he was
giving lessons in Valencia at fourpence
an hour; a fund raised by friends sent
him to an academy. Another milestone
was his incumbency of head of the piano
faculty at Geneva Conservatoire, a post
once held by Franz Liszt. Iturbi made
his American debut in 1929, his first film
(“Thousands Cheer”) in 1944. In be-
tween films and concert-tours he wields
a baton over some of the big U.S,
orchestras.
0 0
Six years back D. R. Grey went to
Otago University (N.Z.) from the British
Foreign Office to be senior-lecturer in
philosophy. Last year he went on a rov-
ing tour of the United Kingdom and the
U.S., holder of Nuffield and Carnegie
fellowships. Now he makes a move to
Armidale (N.S.W.), Professor of Philo-
sophy at New England University.
0 0
Major-General Sir Clive Steele joins
Essington Lewis, Lord Louis Mountbat-
ten, Sir Henry Barraclough and General
Sturdee as an honorary member of the
Institution of Engineers—recognition of
his control of Engineers in the late war.
In War I he was a company-commander
at 25. When Hitler went off he left a
big consulting-engineer’s practice to take
command of 6th Divvy Engineers, and
in 1942 was appointed Engineer-in-Chief
of the Allied Forces. In 1944 he was
awarded the Kernot medal of the Univer-
sity of Melbourne, and rose Sir Clive
last year.
New manager of Brisbane City Coun-
cil s planning and building department,
J. E. Pickersgiil is an Englishman as used
to demolition as to building. He directed
construction of the maze of underground
shelters and A.R.P. control-centres in
Sheffield (Eng.) in preparation for
Goering’s minions, and, after they’d been,
directed demolition of what was left.
With the Luftwaffe licked, Pickersgiil
shifted to India, officer in the Engineers
Corps.
• •
‘ Fltz”: As far as I can recall, poet Peter
Hopegood is the only person who has climbed
the Bulletin stairs and asked to be shown
a bunyip. When told that there were none
on the premises at the moment, Peter expressed
disappointment and left—presumably to explore
various swamps and lakes in the outback which
ye bunyip is supposed to haunt.
Peter belongs to an age when poets differed
Irom ordinary mortals. Nowadays most of
them look like (and are) schoolteachers and
bank-clerks. Born 63 years ago in Essex (Eng.),
he studied at an agricultural college and an art-
school, went to Canada to work for five years
as a lumberjack and as a warder at Edmonton
jail, served in the Essex Regiment in the 1914-18
war, and became a freelance writer and illus-
trator in England. Coming to these parts, he
was jackeroo, pearler and journalist in Wes-
tralia ; for some years studied anthropology and
ethnology in New Zealand, and now hangs out
in N. S. Wales.
He has three publications to his credit:
Austral Pan (1932), Thirteen for Oahu (1941)
and Circus at World’s End (194,7), and over the
years has contributed a fair amount, of verse
to The Bulletin, notably a group of ballad-
type poems, including “Beyond the Morning
Sea.” He can be disarmingly humorous, deli-
cately lyrical, and has an eye for nature, but
is best at allegorical narrative and in the
medieval-ballad style. He is fascinated by the
similarities of myths and legends all over the
world, and seeks in many of his poems to find
the central source from which they may have
sprung..
I last saw Peter some little time ago one
morning before dawn, when I was going home
with the milkman. Out of the gloom there
appeared a tall, bearded figure perched in an
open car hurling with expert aim “Heralds”
and “Telegraphs” on to front lawns and
verandas. As Peter explained, there is little
money in poetry, and even poets must eat.
• •
“Cauboy”: Melbourne ballet-dancer
Philippe Perrotet is making good in
London. He gives ballets of his own
creation at the Toynbee Hall Theatre,
Aidgate, where the non-profit-making
ballet society he founded gives lunch-time
sessions. Perrotet founded a factory for
making false eyebrows to pay for his
Melbourne training,
0 0
A couple of one-time telegraph-mes-
sengers who pedalled to some effect have
changed possies—James Malone retiring
and handing over the chairmanship of
the Overseas Telecommunications Com-
mission to Samuel Kellock. Malone de-
livered his first batch of flimsies way back
in 1898, at Lismore, on the N.S.W. North
Coast; took to wireless-operating in the
War I A.F.C. and won the Military
Cross ; stuck to wireless after the Armis-
tice, and from 1921 till War II broke
out was chief wireless-officer for the
Commonwealth, during which term he
drafted the first wireless regulations and
was principally concerned in the estab-
lishment of broadcasting in Australia.
Hitler’s show found him Deputy-Director
of Posts and Telegraphs in N.S.W. Kel-
lock has been that himself, and, except
for the 15 years when he was a bit small
to peddle a P.M.G. bike, has had all his
life with the department. He hails from
Violet Town, the Victorian Hume High-
way townlet just across the border.
0 0
Now, at 60, Father of the Westralian
Legislative Council, Chief-Secretary Gil-
bert Fraser, a trim bundle of - energy,
has represented the West Province since
1928. Outside Parliament he’s held two
Government jobs— postman in Fre-
mantle in his younger days, and in the
R.A.A.F. in War 11.
“M.G.S.”: Encountered in a caravan
on the roadside near Eltham (Vic.), Alan
Marshall, preparing for a new adventure.
A polio victim since childhood, Marshall
has packed as much physical and spiritual
adventure into 52 years of life as has
Marjorie Lawrence. Armed with a Com-
monwealth Literary Fund grant and with
another book to complete, he is off in
a Studebaker fitted with special controls
and lifting-jacks of his own designing,
so that he can get out of bogs or water-
holes without assistance-; he prefers
travelling alone, although on crutches.
The caravan he tows is replete with
every comfort a suburban housewife
would wish for, including refrigerator
and kitchen, for Marshall is no ascetic
who denies the flesh for the spirit.
• •
“Rothjay”: North Queensland boni-
face Czech Walter Hecht has gone a long
way since he came to Australia five years
ago with £2 10s. in his pocket. In turn,
catering-officer for a migrant holding-
centre near Brisbane, manager of Arcadia
guest-house on Magnetic Island, and now
the Exchange Hotel in Innisfail, he has
turned this latter address into a lively
hotel with movies in the bar, cabarets in
the lounge and a table gourmets from
the south rave about. Hecht served in the
Czech Army, was at the D-Day landing
(wounded) and wears the R.S.L. badge.
• •
Reproduced here by Dubois, J.
Colin Craigen, one of the top-line pro-
ducers in Australian radio. Born at
York (Eng.)—“though I left there early
to live in Aberdeen” —Craigen was in radio
at 10, children’s sessions on the 8.8. C.
In radio ever since, as much at home on
the engineering side as in production,
he has directed, for 8.8. C. shows, pretty
well every well-known name in the
British theatre-world. In September,
1939, he joined the R.A.F. —aircrew;
but not for long. Taking-pff in a
Wellington, the port engine failed ; the
aircraft crashed, bomb-load went up, and
so did Craigen, blown clean out of the
wreck. From then on, radar; first in
the Middle East, in charge of a unit
plotting the movements of enemy armor ;
Alamein, his equipment on a near-by
ridge, just before the balloon, and miles
of 25-pounders, went up; following
Monty’s men past Benghazi, sometimes
behind, often ahead, now using his radar
to spot enemy aircraft. Then Australia,
for expert maintenance on radar-stations,
based at Darwin, touring round the Ter-
ritory, down to Westralia, up to Queens-
PRODUCTION
land. Back with the 8.8. C. in 1946, he
was in charge of supplying its overseas
services with broadcasts of George Vi’s
South African tour. With A.W.A. since
1947, now technical director for station
2CH, and in charge of the busy record-
ing department of A.W.A., he has revolu-
tionised the fcompany’s production tech-
nique ; mainly through the use of tape,
so that a radio-show can now be pro-
duced in sections like a film, instead of
the old method (“fluffs” and all) of run-
ning straight through.
If appearances count,. Murray Robson
here limned to the life (though somewhat
serious) by Prior, is the leader the N S W
fr* bs h T bC3n i ookin § Reaching
S , mches north of 6ft., sideways to
{^ at L ch ’ ■ grm ’ “■on-grey hair, he
looks what he is—a Digger officer of long
battle-experience, his power of command
inside, not outside on his shoulders
Robson colonel, was in the Desert
byna, Owen Stanleys, Lae (D.S.O)
Markham Valley and Balikpapan, and
POLITICS
led his 2/31st throughout. Knows a poli-
tical wrinkle or two as well—member for
Vaucluse (Sydney) for close on 20 years;
his father Assemblyman for Ashfield
between 1905-36, when he crossed to the
Legislative Council; his father M.L.C.
before him. At one time Murray
Robson’s father was in the Assembly,
grandfather in the Council; in 1936,
history repeated, with Murray in the
Assembly, his father in the Council. Like
Vernon Treatt before him, he’s a legal
man by profession, and partners a firm
of solicitors in Sydney’s O’Connell-
street.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, at 71, John Frederick Ward,
who was well and truly a headmaster —in his
time head of Adelaide’s Prince Alfred College,
president of the Australian Headmasters’ Con-
ference, and chairman of the Headmasters’
Association in the S.A. capital. Born in Man-
chester (Eng.), educated at the college he later
headed for 18 years, he did some of his master-
ing in the North (at Rockhampton Grammar
and as first head of Thornburgh College,
Charters Towers), and a six-year stretch in
the West (Wesley College, South Perth). In
1950 he published the history of the first 80
years of Prince Alfred College.
At 79, at Collaroy (N.S.W.), Brigadier-
General James Heane, who commanded the Ist
Battalion and, later, the 2nd Infantry Brigade
in War I, was “mentioned” seven times, and
came home with a string of decorations,
among them C. 8., C.M.G. and D.S.O. In the
following war he commanded the State V.D.C.
till his retirement in 1942. The previous year
he gave up, after 19 years, the presidency of
the N.S.W. Fruitgrowers’ Federation, he having
been an orchardist in a big way between the
wars.
At Oamaru (N.Z.), at 95, Colonel J. C. Nichols,
C.8.E., a leading figure in the pastoral, business,
military and philanthropic life of Otago. A
native of Launceston (Tas.), he crossed to New
Zealand as a child, and left for Cambridge in
1879 by the Stadt Haarlem, the first steamer
to make the direct passage from N.Z. to
London, He married a daughter of Robert M.
Ayre, Benduck station (N.S.W.) ; two of his
four sons were killed in War I, and the Colonel
and his brother erected the memorial church
at Maheno, outside Oamaru, to their memory.
This Anglican church is one of the architectural
manorial gems of N.Z. The Colonel’s museum
at the homestead, Kuriheka, is one of the best
private museums in the Dominion.
In Kalgoorlie, at 67, James Joseph Larcombe,
veteran prospector and publican. It was on a
lease held by hjm at Larkinville that the Golden
Eagle nugget, weighing 781 b., avoirdupois—the
biggest ever found in Westralia —was un-
covered by his son at a depth of 18in. in
1931. The find enabled him to take over a
hotel in Boulder, which he ran till he retired
a few years ago.
In Perth, at 86, Charles Diamond, widely
interested in Westralian business. Joining the
Commercial Bank in Victoria in 1893, he
was appointed manager in Perth in 1914, held
the job till he retired in 1943, and then went
on to Perth Stock Exchange.


SYNTHETICS


ABORIGINALITIES
TVO matter how well-regimented they
were, the dogs used to guard military
stores often had to battle with an innate
sense of fun. Once I stumbled across a
dog-line in the dark; the pooch arrived
promptly, but instead of barking three
times and then biting in the regulation
manner, “low to hit but not to kill,” he
dropped a stick at my feet and spent a
happy half-hour chasing it up the line as
often as I would throw it for him.
Another tyke, at the time when soldiers
were leading imaginary dogs around on
the end of a string to try to win an early
discharge, had the whole unit on a
string. He would stand in the middle of
his line and then turn round and round
until his chain was so tightly twisted his
front feet were off the ground. Then he’d
wait patiently until released and repeat
the performance. Troppo? Well, he got
himself discharged in time to grab a
cushy job as a seeing-eye.—“Contact,”
* * * *
“Tolai”: A native “boy” working for
me here in New Britain came in moan-
ing as if in agony, with a small blister
on his hand —he had been cutting grass:
“He pain too much, Missis.” After
applying a plaster I pointed to many
recently-acquired tribal mutilations and
said, “He pain too much when he cut
along you?” Opening his eyes in great
surprise he said; “No got. Missis. He no
pain. He no belong work.”
* * * *
“Swelpme”: Not till 1 shone a torch
under the back-veranda floor did the
mystery of the curious faint sound
unravel. My scrounging mong must
have found and brought home a scrap
of meat-sandwich still wrapped in its
grease-proof. Why he’d parked it under
the house instead of eating the meat and
avoiding the bread like poison, as he
generally did, he alone knew; but the
ants had found it —the piece of paper was
overrun with ’em, and their thousands of
feet running across the stiff paper were
responsible for the strange sound. Until
then I had not known that ants forage in
the dark. The fact establishes the meat-
ant as a far more vigorous worker than
the much-publicised busy bee.
♦ < * ♦
“Fair Mac”: Considering that a silver-
grey possum’s tail is designed by Nature
for gripping branches, etc., being devoid
of fur on the inside and remarkably like
pliant leather, it’s strange that he uses
it so seldom for any other purpose than
to form a nice snug circle in which he
can bury his head and slumber in cosy
comfort. How different from his little
cousin, the ringtail! Ringie’s tail is on
duty all the time. In repose he carries
it high over his back with the white tip
curled inwards in an ever-ready coil;
but when he is changing from one branch
to another it moves like an
octopus’s tentacles, seemingly
an independent organ acting on
its own initiative. No matter
how the fascinating little bloke
may skip and frolic from limb
to limb his safety-line is always
on the job, now lingering
across the branch he has just
left, ready to hook on immedi-
ately if the new one should
break ; now reaching high over-
head to find an anchor there.
Ringie’s tail always gives me
the impression that it has no
confidence in his claws and legs.
Alas, his very precautions can
cause his death. How is he to
know that an electricity pole is
not a dry tree to be gambolled
upon, that one wire could be
touched without mishap, but
when two are contacted dis-
tricts are blacked-out and irate
linesmen find a pathetic little
body with his tail curled around one
wire and his feet on another?
* * ♦ ♦
“Muskeen”: Calling Noah! The
police-station at Roper Bar, in the NT.,
is built on piles 7ft. high on ground
about 30ft. above the dry level of the
river. Last time I was there I was shown
on the ceiling outlines of a book and a
wallaby which had been pressed against
it by flood-waters.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: The nostalgic memo-
ries of “Emjai” (B. 11/8/’54), bom of the
odors belonging to his boyhood in the
Victorian mining town of Tarnagulla,
wafted me back to my own youthful days
in another town of the same type, so
that I smelled again—almost in one dose
—a wide variety of bush-aromas ranging
from the fragrance of golden wattle to
the pungency of masculine goats. With
all respect to “Emjai’s” moleskin pants,
I incline to think that the most distinc-
tive smell of the lot was the rankly sweet
tang given off by the small honey-parrots
which, when the blue-gums flowered in
winter, we skittled with our shanghais.
Those pretty but bibulous little birds
were oblivous to danger as they swilled
on the wealth “Of nectar, and we young
savages “knocked” them in profusion
and decorated our caps or rag-hats with
“Try it for size.”
their colored scalps. There were three
kinds of these miniature parrots—l’ve
come to know them since as the musk,
little, and purple-crowned lorikeets—and
sometimes in summer we exercised our
skill on a larger and prettier visitor from
the north, the Blue Mountain lorikeet,
Each of the parrots had its own special
odor, and all were held in marked distaste
by our schoolteachers; but those gentry,
I regret to recall, raised no objection to
our wearing of feathered scalps, or even
to our possessing lethal weapons,
Incidentally, whence came the word
“I'll bet there's a catch in it somewhere,"
“shanghai”? Its synonym, “ging,” was
presumably merely a corruption of
“sling,” but I’ve never heard any sug-
gestion regarding the ancestry of the
“shang.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Millicent”: Three husky pups at
Mawson (Austarctica) wolfed some dyna-
mite, and one died. I’ve never eaten
nitroglycerine, but if taking it that way
causes headaches anything like those it
can cause by external application, I can
sympathise with the survivors. It is
enough after handling dynamite to wipe
the greasy hands across the forehead
in order to bring on the most appalling
headache. The fumes of exploded or
burnt dynamite can kill a man quickly
enough in a confined space, and in dilute
doses will cause sickness with an unimag-
inable headache. On a mine in which I
worked a persistent cigarette-bot was
“fixed” by being given a gasper doctored
with a little crumbed dynamite. The
headache, which took him two days off
to beat, must have been comparable in
intensity to the discomfort caused by star-
ing overlong at a welding-arc. I’m
aware of no worse head-pain than that.
« * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: They’ve fixed the
line for the fence that’s going to keep
the emus out of the W.A. wheat-
belt. Each year the birds come
down in droves from the
Murchison, between the No. 1
and No. 2 rabbitproof fences —
they run almost parallel and
about 100 miles apart—and play
havoc with the more northerly
crops. The new fence will run
from a point on the No. 1 fence
about 30 miles north of the
north-eastern limits of the wheat-
belt, thence about 120 miles west
to the No. 2 fence. That’s
through dry country, with a
couple of really big salt-lake
areas, and surveying and clearing
the line could not have been all
pie. In fact, for a couple of
months the party lived off the
land, which meant eating kanga-
roo pretty regularly ; they didn’t
sight a habitation along the
entire route; and once a couple
of men were lost for two days.
That’s a long time in a hot,
waterless region, and the experi-
ence may have created anew
respect for surveyor Canning,
who ran the line for the No. 1
fence at the beginning of the
century. It took four years to
map the 1150-mile line through
some of the worst country in the
State.
“Mackville”; I once saw an even
queerer bet won after a game of draughts
(B. 11/8/’s4>. One of the erstwhile
players laid a draught flat in the middle
of the table and offered to bet two-bob
he could roll the draught on to the
floor without touching it, moving the
table or using any implement whatsoever
It sounded impossible, and three two-
bobs were promptly put up to say so
The bloke who’d placed the draught
covered the bets, then leaned over the
table and blew firmly. Incredibly, the
draught stood up on its edge and whaled
è
now.”
GULLIVER.
WINTER’S END
Rosy glowing from the ocean comes’ the sun
with kookaburras welcoming him in,
and coasting down the hill young Morrison
upon his bike practises yodelling
and sings his “pop” songs till the curt mudlarks
fly off protesting to the paperbarks.
He wakens all the sleepers-in-on-Sunday
and sends the dust on heath-wrens without
warning
and sets the kelpie snapping at the wheels,
and oh, it is a lovely winter morning—
the blue is clean, there’s not a smudge of cloud,
only the hardenbergia’s purpling bud.
Young Morrison goes free-wheel down the road,
which swings in waltz-time till it meets the high-
way,
just misses the timber-jinker’s heavy load,
and ever yet the boyish echoes ring,
and oh, it is a lovely winter day!—
or is it, can it be, the start of spring?
n.s.w.
E. NORMAN.


THE mill foreman invariably selects
the keenest-edged axe to shave with.
It isn’t that he’s vain; he just wants a
very close shave, though there isn’t a
female within miles. It’s just that a com-
pletely hairless dial is to him a tool of
trade. Selecting a stick from the drying
stack, he first docks it in half and then
applies his cheek to the cut. If the end
of the stick feels cold, the log hasn’t dried
out properly ; but if it is warm to the
cheek, the stick is dry.-—“C.A.L.”
♦ * * *
“Flight”: The English butcher-bird is
celebrated for its habit of using a broken
piece of tree-branch to spike its surplus
meat, but I have never known our own
butcher-bird, which resembles the Eng-
lish fowl in plumage and size, adopt the
same means of food-conservation. Inci-
dentally, Butch is the only bird I know
to which the magpie gives the right of
the air.
* * ♦ ♦
“2 L X”: When I cut my pastoral
teeth as a jackeroo one of the first things
I was told was that sheep invariably feed
and face up-wind (B. 18/8/’54), but after
mttoy years of mustering large mobs in
big paddocks my verdict is that they will
run generally where the best feed takes
them, irrespective of wind-direction.
There is only one exception : immedi-
ately following a heavy wet season. Then
they will invariably head straight into
the wind, and for a very sound reason —
to keep the resultant plague of sandflies
and mosquitoes from their vulnerable
parts; lips, eyes and ears.
* * * ♦
“Dicky”: As well as the grebe (B.
11/8/’54), the coot family, shags and,
on rare occasions, swans and avocets
anchor their nests to a lignum-bush or
half-submerged dead bough. Sometimes
a rise in stream or swamp or heavy wind
or rain will break its frail moorings and
send the nest floating off, complete with
faintly astonished, but determined, parent.
As to covering the nest with debris for
use during temporary absence, the dotterel
also practises this. Its modernistically
patterned eggs are covered with bits of
grass and pellets of mud while it goes on
those quick, darting forays along the
water’s edge. But my vote for natty nest-
ings goes to the Eastern swamp-hen, also
known as water-hen or bald-coot, which
builds a sloping runway from its nest in
a lignum-bush to the water, down which
the chickens roll, to literally swim before
they walk.
* * * *
“Muskeen”: Joe Governor (B.
11/8/’54) was shot near Singleton
(N.S.W.). His body was laid on a table
in the bar-parlor of one of the local
hotels, and the publican charged a fee
to view it. Some of the spectators got
full value for their money by striking
wax-matches on the soles of the outlaw’s
feet.
* * * *
“Balwyn”: “Kin’s” jewfish seeing the
drought through in a damp mud-casing
(B. 11/8/’54) brings to mind the water-
holding frog (Cheiroleptes platycephalus)
of Centralia. When Sir Baldwin Spencer
was camped near Charlotte Waters in the
dry season of 1894 an abo, cut away some
hard clay with a hatchet and dug out for
him a yellow frog puffed up to the shape
of an orange. Bloated with water, it had
lain asleep in a spherical burrow only
2|in. in diameter, the walls of which were
moist and slimy. Binghi, anxious to
please, squeezed water from the frog for
the explorer to drink. It tasted sweet and
fresh. He then assured Spencer that the
animal survived long periods of drought
by means of its internal water-storage,
“Take your clothes of before y' dive."
and that abos tapped this supply when no
other w as available.
* * * *
“Jackstay”; Herb, the trawler skipper,
was telling in the bar about the size and
numbers—both colossal—of the sharks to
be seen off the N.S.W. coast, and one of
the city blokes on holiday, looking seep-
tical, sniggered. “All right!” said Herb.
“You don’t believe me? Come out to-
morrow and I’ll show you!” When we
shot the net at sunrise the city bloke was
hanging green and gasping over the star-
board rail and blaming the sandwiches,
while to port Herb shoved a flathead on
the shark-hook and slid the line over,
about 15ft. down in the clear water. We’d
just winched the net in when the visitor
came to life and let out a yell. There was
a shark on the line ... he could see it. . .
a five-footer! Herb strolled for’ard, and
he’d just bent to pick up the line when
12ft. or so of grey evil slid from under
tlie boat, took two bites and left only
the tail to drift away and the head hang-
ing on the hook. Herb turned acl is-,
gusted face to the stunned city gent,
“Well!” he said. The cunmn little
——J Took that bait off as neat as you
like. The line stayed on deck the rest
of the day—it would have been cruel to
spoil the story that bloke took back to
Pitt-street.
I. OR THE CROW
Two crows came stealing my chickens; one died:
Tatter of sable falling at my feet:
When I compressed the trigger, all his side
Ripped open wide.
One dead,
The other fled,
Hurling hoarse maledictions as he went.
He carked about the homestead all the day,
From distant vantage-points reviling me;
From the top branches of the dead box-tree
Across the flat; the gallows at the yard;
Making it hard,
Almost impossible, to find a way
Of induration to his raucousness,
Tainting my Sabbath day with restlessness;
Unquiet doubt, projected into dreams;
To me it seems
He had the better of the argument.
But question is (I’m sure I do not know),
Who had the right of it? I, or the crow?
n.s.w.
H UI TE RANGIORA.
"LET SLEEPING DOGS LIE"
IN its literal application the old adage
may be viewed with a certain degree
of dubiety by the householder *jtvhose
pooch has continued to snore deeply on
the back porch while a burglar has been
ratting the front rooms during the
family’s temporary absence. Meta-
phorically, however, I find it is especially
admirable when applied to things auto-
motive.
Years ago, when I bought my car, I
was given with it a book of instructions,
and I immediately made a firm resolu-
tion that I would always keep it in apple-
pie order (the car, that is). Although 1
happened to be out of the room when
Nature was handing out the gift of
mechanical ability, which many of my
friends, happily for me, enjoy, I deter-
“Betcha couldn't do it again!"
mined to overcome this defect by sheer
determination.
If one man, having no more fingers
than I, can adjust a tappet or clean out
a carburettor, I thought, then so can
another. Then I opened the book at a
chart marked “engine and gearbox,” and
was so overcome at the sight of an
appallingly complicated mass of parts
that I closed it hurriedly and pinned my
faith to the heading above. I have been
completely justified in my faith.
Mind you, I may be a mechanical mug,
but I do know that when they speak of
a universal joint they’re not referring to
the headquarters of the United Nations,
But it is the smaller things about a car
that always get me confused. I have
been asked on more than one occasion
whether my windscreen-wiper runs off
the battery or compressed-air.
I haven’t a clue. The fact that it runs
at all is something for which I have
remained profoundly grateful to the
fellow who adjusted it on the assembly-
line. It could run off compressed-air.
But of what benefit would it be to me
to find out? If it did happen to run off
that, and it failed, I haven’t the vaguest
notion where the supply of compressed-
air is kept. ...
Never having smelt anything objection-
able in the car I can only conclude that
if compressed-air is kept somewhere it
hasn’t gone bad through having been kept
too long. I have seen those long cylin-
ders of air being used on construction
jobs, but, though I have pried into odd
places occasionally—under the bonnet,
in the boot and behind the dashboard —
I have never seen even a miniature
cylinder of it, which you’d think would
be sufficient for a small car.
I have sometimes idly thought that if
my windscreen-wiper does run off corn-
pressed-air it may be manufactured by
the car as it goes along. Then I’ve rea-
lised you can get it going while the
engine’s not running. I’ve decided to
forget it.
Other fellows I know are always muck-
ing about with theirs. It either gallops
madly, thus impairing their vision, or it
doesn’t go at all.
Often, over the years, I have managed
to scotch a grinding noise by suddenly
remembering that I had forgotten to fill
the radiator for a month or two. It is
simply then a matter of waiting till the
engine cools down and filling it up.
Despite the water I put in being of irre-
proachable clarity, the fluid which over-
flows will be orange-colored. This, they
tell me, is caused through an accumula-
tion of rust in the radiator-core.
Now, I suspect that there is a drainage-
plug somewhere under the radiator which
could be unscrewed and the rusty water
let out. I have never been able to locate
it, though the instruction-book says it’s
there. But the car has been going for
years on rusty water. What if I were
to discover the plug? Would it be the
right one? I might unwittingly be un-
screwing something that is damming back
oil or petrol. And if it were the right
one and I did fill it correctly with clean
water, might it not run less efficiently on
that than with the orange-colored juice
it has so long been used to? No, it would
be too much like tempting Providence.
So far as I know, the oil in my differ-
ential is the original, unless my garage-
man has surreptitiously “topped” it
occasionally out of the goodness of his
heart—knowing his heart, that is a
remote possibility. Yet the car has never
caught fire through metal-to-metal fric-
tion, which I am told occurs when lubri-
cation is entirely absent. Possibly, of
course, mine is a model in which it has
been dispensed with. I wouldn’t know.
Yet it is obvious from my own experi-
ence that the necessity of oil in the diff.
is overrated. I have never checked-up on
whether there is any in it. For one thing,
I wouldn’t know the thing if I saw it.
Some fellows I know, every week or
two, religiously unscrew their spark-plugs
and clean them, and even check the points
for distance apart. But, I argue, what
could possibly cause a change in distance?
So far as I am aware, plugs don’t jog
about or whirl around while they are in
the cylinder-head. How then,, in the
absence of interference from human
agency, could the points push away from,
or hustle closer to, each other? More-
over, the very action of constantly un-
screwing them out and screwing them in
again must wear them out before their
time. Or the spanner could slip off and
fracture the porcelain. By leaving mine
in, I take no such risk.
If one were to attach undue significance
to all the warnings issued by the instruc-
tion-book one would suffer sleepless
nights. For instance, it said I must refill
the generator with petroleum-jelly every
10,000 miles. Well, it must have been
pretty good jelly they put in just before
mine rolled off the assembly-line, for it
has lasted 37,000 miles so far. The
jelly could by now have a thick fur on
it, but at least it is still doing a grand
job. And I don’t doubt it will still be
helping the generating, unless it melts
during some extra-hot summer, and
refuses to re-jell, for the next 40,000
miles.
The steering-gear, I found, should be
given a shot of “E.P. oil” every 1000
miles.
I have never found out what ‘ E.P.
stands for. The book is silent on the
subject, and even if I could get it inter-
preted I wouldn’t be able to find the hole
to pour it into. Theoretically, my steer-
ing-gear should have been completely
bereft of all oil 36,000 miles ago. But
apparently it isn’t.
Only once have I been guided by the
precepts in the good book. This was
occasioned by finding, when I first took
the wheel, that my feet wouldn't reach
the clutch-pedal, brake and accelerator.
It seemed that the front seat could
easily be adjusted by “raising up the
spring-loaded lever beneath the seat-
runner and easing it backwards and for-
wards as in Fig. 5.”
In an unusual burst of sheer mechanical
brilliance I managed, after only about 20
minutes, to push it forward. Then it
clicked into position. Apparently it was
the last notch, for the seat was so close
to the steering-wheel that when I emerge
after driving for some time I have to
open up like a pocket-knife, I can’t get
the damn’ thing to go back.
It’s a great pity they don’t supply a
bloke with the instruction-book to
instruct you how to do everything it
covers.
But I wield quite a cunning hand when
I top-up the battery with distilled-water.
Bo.


ADD
é
ONE FINGER
—fast and accurately
Why waste your time and energy in tedious adding up, and
risk making costly errors? With this amazing high-speed
Adding Machine you can reduce the brain-fag of adding figures
to a one-finger operation—and get right answers every time I
e
personal portable ADDING MACHINE
can be mastered in five minutes. Over 13,000 are already in
use in Australia. Businesses of every kind-—big and small—
farmers, professional men, find Contex a life-saver. Contex
adds in whole numbers, £ s, d., decimals, weights and
measures. It will take the burden of “figure-work” off your
shoulders for a mere
£23/10/-
Handsome carrying
case, 55/- extra
Write to CHARTRES Ltd.
SYDNEY:
169 Liverpool St.
ADELAIDE:
29 Grenfell St.
MELBOURNE:
875 Collins St.
PERTH:
E. C. Stott & Co.,
Howard St.
BRISBANE:
256-278 Wickham St.,
Valley
HOBART^LAUNcriSTON.
DEVONPORT
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Business.Rollery.Etc.
EXPORTS. IMPORTS AND CREDIT POLICY
OEVERAL developments in
the Australian economy
suggest that credit and import
policy may be the subject of
consideration in high places
before very long.
Some export-values, including
wheat and sugar, are down, and
some export quantities are also
lower. In 1953-54 total exports
fell in value by £3O million.
Though they were still able to
pay for imports valued at £l7l
million more than in the preced-
ing year—import-controls were
relaxed —and show a surplus of
£134 million, other obligations
and payments reduced the posi-
tion to one of “breaking even”
when a balance was struck. The
previous year was one in which
£l9l million was added to our
London funds.
During the first two months
of 1954-55 there has been an
excess of imports over exports.
There has been a building-up of
import-figures for some time.
Income for the man-on-the-
land, as a general thing, seems
likely to fall, even though the
wool-cheque may stay*put. The
buoyancy of the past few years
is being checked in some
rural areas.
The trading banks at the end
of June had record advances out-
standing ; but, expressed as a
percentage (53.7 p.c.) of deposits,
they were still well below the
65.2 p.c. of July, 1952, but were
above the 45.4 p.c. of August,
1951, when credit-restriction was
introduced.
The credit-restriction policy of
1951 was brought in deliberately
to crack the boom in costs then
developing, and to prepare the
country for the fall in export
prices that was in process. It
was after the restriction policy
was put into force that the banks
were called upon for the
maximum accommodation,
largely because of the slow
movement of stocks, and because
of purchase obligations already
entered into.
In many industries costs have
been comparatively stable for
the past 12 months or more ; in
some industries they have
actually been reduced. But in
the building trade there is already
developing some shortage of both
labor and materials, and as a
result building costs are tending
to rise. Some other manufac-
turing industries are feeling the
pinch as well. There is a renewed
inclination for staff to move from
the job it has occupied for the
past couple of years to a new job
at higher wages. Often the new
job is in a semi-luxury category.
There has been a big increase
in many types of manufacturing
production over the past six
months. Helped by unprece-
dented consumer-credit facilities,
sales of domestic refrigerators
and similar appliances, as well
as motor-cars, have gone to new
high levels. The everyday things
of life, such as food and cloth-
ing, have been much more stable.
Steel output, though a record,
has not been equal to the
demand. Cement output has
been running closer to require-
ments, its output having been
steadily rising in N. S. Wales and
Victoria.
Mr. P. Bottomley, president
of the N.S.W. Master Builders’
Association, has said he did not
think “the present scramble for
labor at ever-increasing cost”
would result in security for any
in the industry. He added: “If
the present trend is allowed to
continue, I am sure it will result
in very severe credit-restrictions.
There are already some signs of
this.”
It has been forecast by the
Department of National De-
velopment in Canberra that this
half of 1954 may see some set-
back in Australian manufactur-
ing activity because of the
increase in imports resulting
"He keeps looking at the chart and talking about
mining shares.”
from the relaxation of restric-
tions earlier. The cost of imports
has been kept at a fairly stable
level during the past 12 months,
and as a result they are often
competitive with the Australian-
made article. But it would
appear that, on the basis of
present export income, there will
be a curtailment of importing
before long, either through
tighter credit facilities, reimposi-
tion of some controls, or through
a natural levelling-off.
Though Australia’s overseas
funds stood at £571 million on
June 30 —almost the same as a
year earlier—it is unlikely that
they will be allowed to run down
to any great extent by excessive
importing, more especially since
a possible decline in consumer-
demand from some sections of
Australian primary industry may
be making conditions more
difficult for the manufacturing
side of things.
There are a number of self-
balancing factors in the Aus-
tralian economy, and one of
them is the tendency of excessive
imports, however competitive
with similar Australian articles,
to work their own cure by
depleting London funds. But
certain developments will need
watching in any case. They are
(to summarise);
(1) The fall in wheat prices
and other export values.
(2) The growing competition
for labor.
(3) A shortage of some
essential materials.
(4) The tendency for costs to
rise in some industries.
(5) The high rate of imports.
(6) The considerable extension
of credit facilities over the
past year,
(7) The high level of semi-
luxury spending.
The position at present is one
which calls for a thoughtful
reconsideration of economic
trends. On the face of things it
appears that there may be some
readjustments in particular
sections of the economy, and a
more selective policy in the
matter of import-permits and
credit-extension.
The overall outlook for Aus-
tralian industry is that it will
remain busy, but with probably
more immediate problems this
year than last.
On the Stock Exchange it is
doubtful whether there will be
quite the same volume of money
awaiting investment. For that
reason the purchase of industrial
stocks should remain on a strictly
selective basis. Rises in share-
prices will depend chiefly on
better results being shown by
the stock concerned. Lower
yields are unlikely to be
accepted by investors as a whole.
Industrials and Mining
Sharemarket interest is swing-
ing-over to industrials as a more
sober tone spreads through the
oil-uranium section. A few
butterflies among the gold issues
appear to have had their brief
moment, although there is a
new generation which hasn’t yet
really learned that you don’t find
Hill 50’s in every worked-out
goldfield in the Common-
wealth,
Clearly, among oil and
uranium issues, speculators are
still operating on possibilities
and generalities. Not much
proven or specific is yet known.
The time-factor in developing,
proving, extracting and milling
is also coming to be appreci-
ated. The lag between com-
pany-flotation and economic
production is usually a dull
period in the life of any indus-
trial investment. It was so in
the case of Bitumen and Oil, for
example; and mines are usually
more uncertain and longwinded.
Bradford Cotton’s 124 p.c.
div. (against 10 p.c. last year)
has whipped the shares to over
40s. A 15 p.c. div. from President
Consolidated (up 24 p.c.) sent
the ss. shares to 13s. 6d. (A
new one-for-one par issue is
also being made.) And a final
div. of 9 p.c. from Malcolm
Moore Industries made the total
for the year 15 p.c. Though this
compared with 20 p.c. in 1942-
43, it was more than the market
expected three months ago.
A.P.M.’s 64 p.c. ord. div. has
brought a strong recovery in the
price, of the co.’s shares. Gibson
and Howes is to make a one-for-
two bonus issue.
B.H.P. has made it clear that
it has a great deal of capital tied
up in the tinplate and other pro-
jects which is not yet earning
its keep. Another increase in
the price of steel may be neces-
sary. With a new issue now being
made, B.H.P. shares seem to be
essentially a holding proposi-
tion.
Australian Paper Mfrs.
Following the spectacular
recovery in sales and profits,
shares in A.P.M. have lifted to
225. 6d. on ’Change, after selling
round 18s.-19s. for some time.
Profit to June 30 was
£1,456,708 (compared with
£545,587 in the preceding term);
it was arrived at after setting
aside £988,600 for taxes (against
£256,500); depreciation
£1,011,808 (£598,844). The
reason for the increased profit
was a steep recovery in turnover,
sales reaching a record of
168,976 tons of kraft-paper and
paper - board, compared with
96,143 tons in the preceding term.
Current production and sales are
at a rate equal to about 197,000
tons a year,
Ord. shareholders are to get
6| p.c. for the year, against
4 p.c.; the rate is comfortably
covered.
Prospects for the current term
are healthy. The paper trade
throughout the world has picked
(Continued on page 15)


THE CITY BLOCK LTD.
(In Vol. Liq.).
NOTICE is hereby given that at the
expiration of Twentyone days from
the date of publication hereof the
Liquidator of THE CITY BLOCK
LTD., a Company duly registered and
incorporated in Queensland, under
the “Companies Act of 1863,” of
which the Registered office is at 242
Edward Street, Brisbane, and now in
Voluntary Liquidation, intends to dis-
pense with the production of Share
Certificate No. 12 for 5,500 Shares
(numbered 49,501 to 55,000) in the
Capital of the Company standing in
the names of REGINALD McDOU-
GALL BOWMAN and GORDON
BLAXLAND BOWMAN of 469
Oxford Street, PADDINGTON,
New South Wales, which said Share
Certificate has been lost or inadver-
tently destroyed, AND to pay out
to the said REGINALD McDOU-
GALL BOWMAN and GORDON
BLAXLAND BOWMAN (or as they
may direct) all monies to which they
may be entitled in respect of the said
Shares.
Any persons claiming any estate or
interest in the said Shares are hereby
requested to present their Claims to
the Liquidator within the period
abovementioned at his address here-
under.
R. W. CAMERON, Liquidator of
the Company, 242 Edward Street,
BRISBANE.
Public Notice
TO RICHARD ROSS ELLIS formerly of
31 Redan Street East St. Hilda and now
of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife KATHLEEN ANNIE ELLIS
has instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the ground of desertion Un-
less you enter an appearance in the Pro-
thonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court
of V ictoria in Melbourne on or before
September 23rd 1954 the ease may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs.—T. \V. BRENNAN, 116
Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
:• ••••«•; • •*.• /.‘A
The name is
(D c CalUim’s
r-
*«**»*•**
m
m
v::
ii£
ft t . • • t. .......
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC23/3.2
A BANKING TRADITION
i"
... down through the
Changing Years
HEAD OFFICE, GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY—IN 1859.
| EFFICIENT, WISE 4
I AND FRIENDLY f
I SERVICE
«r-po provide the best in banking service.” This was the
X policy of The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
when it was established in 1834. The value of this service
was quickly recognised and the bank soon became an
essential element in the industrial and commercial life of
the colony.
Down through the changing years, the Bank’s traditional
service, efficient, wise and friendly, has aided enterprising
men in their activities to the benefit of themselves and the
nation.
To-day, we of this Bank, owned and staffed by
Australians, offer the same service and the
benefits of our long experience to
men who wish to undertake schemes
of sound development.
Head Office, or the Manager of our
branch nearest to you, will gladly give
particulars of our service.
THE-
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
i I
up suddenly, and demand in
some cases exceeds supply.
Order-books in Australia, too,
are filling-up for months ahead.
In the absence of anything of an
unexpected nature, A.P.M.’s pro-
fit for 1954-55 should be better
than for last term, judging by
the present 17j p.c.-higher rate
of turnover. Competition from
imports is, unlikely to be so
severe.
A.P.M. is one of Australia’s
biggest industries. It has a paid-
up capital of over £l6 million.
General Motors-Hol(fen’s
The £7,236,239 profit shown
by General Motors-Holden’s
Ltd., for the year to Dec. 31,
1953, was £3,947,548 greater than
the result revealed in the previous
term, and is much the highest
profit ever earned by a trading
enterprise in Australia. An ord.
dividend of 100 p.c. is to be paid
to General Motors Corp.,
U.S.A., which owns all the
£1,750,000 of ord. capital.
Last year’s profits were earned
chiefly from the sale of 58,599
vehicles (11,254 more than in
1952), of which 44,175 (75 p.c.)
were Holdens, the rest Vauxhalls,
Chevs., Bedfords, etc. Nearly a
third of the total motor-vehicle
registrations in the year in ques-
tion were Holdens.
The General Motors-Holden’s
enterprise pioneered the mass-
production of motor-engines and
transmissions in the Common-
wealth, and singular success has
attended its enterprise. Holden
vehicles have been popular and
competitive.
Though ord. capital stands at
£1,750,000 and pref. capital at
£561,000, total funds figure at
£23.7 million, including £17.3
million of reserved profits and
£4.1 million owing to the U.S.
parent. The co. has £23.6
million laid out on fixed assets
and stock. U.S. tax-law has dis-
couraged the co. from capitalis-
ing some of the large profits
which have been ploughed-back
into the business to make tooling-
up for the Holden car a
possibility.
Over the years the rate of
earning has averaged much lower
than figures for the past two
terms would indicate. But' the
co.’s success has been partly
responsible for accelerating plans
for complete car-manufacture in
Australia by other overseas
makers. The Austin-Morris
combination has finished a
factory at Victoria Park, Sydney,
with a capacity of about 50;000
engines a year for British Motor
Corporation vehicles. It will cost
over £2f million. A 20-acre
factory-site has also been
acquired by the same people at
Fishermen’s Bend, Melbourne.
High profits are expected from
the manufacture of motor-cars,
especially as the cost of original
tooling-up and later change-
over to new models is so heavy.
The success of one motor-car
enterprise also tends to bring
other makers into the field, which
creates competition. There have
been two reductions in the price
of the Holden over the past two
years, which (standard model)
now sells for under £lOOO. Well
over 200 Holdens a day are now
being made, but there is a long
waiting-list for delivery.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Trade with Japan
One or two lessons learnt in
efforts to build up trade with
Japan over the past three years
should help N.Z. to steer a safe
course under its new commercial
treaty, which opens the door for
Japanese goods at some risk to
sheltered Dominion industry.
Importers have been the keenest
to get on to business terms again,
and manufacturers are the most
sceptical.
This line-up of opposing
interests is, of course, easily
understood, when Japanese costs
and standards are compared with
those of N.Z., after full allow-
ance for dollar influences, which
make pre-war costs and prices
in Japan look prehistoric. Most
N.Z. manufacturing enterprises
are in the tender stage and have
been brought up under highly
protected conditions, which have
encouraged a good deal of weak
growth and have made them a
fairly easy prey if they should
happen to be exposed to competi-
tion of the kind that New
Zealanders associate with
Eastern countries. In working
out the new treaty, manufac-
turers’ fears have been the main
obstacle. The difficulties aren’t
swept away by agreeing to open
the door; they will have to be
met and overcome in the course
of business.
The old pattern of trade is no
guide these days, and the door,
though opened, will be fairly
closely guarded. Maoriland is
now more interested in materials
and plant for industry than in
finished goods, and is more likely
to be a profitable market for
Japanese partly fabricated iron
and steel, chemicals, high-grade
textile fibres, tools and some
types of equipment than for a
host of fancy goods which once
flooded the market. It seems
that N.Z.’s chief mistake lately
in a few cases has been in buying
what looked like bargain lines
but turned out to be shoddy or
defective, without reputable
backing.
Having learnt this lesson with-
out being stung too severely,
N.Z. should now beware of the
pitfalls. Quality Japanese
materials bought from firms with
a reputation for honest dealing
should lay a foundation for con-
fidence and an expanding market
in N.Z.
Progress would be faster if the
Japanese were to develop a
system of guarantees to safeguard
buyers against risk of loss
wherever goods turned out to be
below sample, instead of leaving
traders to whistle for the money
if claims for indemnity are well
founded.
N.Z.’s exports to Japan seem
to have an attractive future,
made brighter by a direct ship-
ping line now restored, which
will cut freight costs and put
N.Z. on a strong competitive
footing. Everything is in favor
of selling more wool, hides,
tallow, butter and other dairy
products if the Japanese can pay
for them. If exports and imports
increase together, N.Z. can expect
to hold its creditor position, with
an approach closer to balance.
The heavily lopsided conditions
of the past few years couldn’t
continue for long.
National Resources
Long-term prospects are a lot
rosier than short-term in N.Z.,
as in Australia, because of the
mountain of labor, materials and
capital that has to be sunk in
development before the biggest
projects bring much return.
N.Z.’s advantage is that its
resources are more accessible,
because it’s a small country with
most of its wealth on or near
the surface and not far from
coastal ports. Its reproductive
projects are few and simple,
based mainly on grass and trees,
and the chief assets are soil and
climate, which few competitors
can equal. These assets have a
higher cash - value than
geographical position in relation
to world markets, in the past the
little country’s greatest handicap
but now a diminishing one.
Science and modern invention
are coming to Maoriland’s aid
faster and on a larger scale than
anyone except a few dreamers
thought possible until two or
three years ago. The hill country
—and most of N.Z. is hilly—is
coming into its own, and the
once-despised pumice-lands can
be made as productive as most
of the settled and developed parts
of the country.
Millions of potentially fertile
acres need only fertiliser to bring
a change as important in its way
as the transformation of the
famed Waikato and other once-
backward parts early in the
century. To boost production of
wool, meat and dairy produce
N.Z. wants plenty of phosphate,
along with lime and moderate
quantities of other stuff, which
would complete the circle where
rainfall, temperate conditions
and work will do the rest. This,
however, isn’t as simple as it
looks. In expansion on such a
scale, a country is likely to run
into one bottleneck after another,
as N.Z. is finding out. The next
is lack of fertiliser. Planes are
spreading the stuff too fast for
the manufacturers, and new
fertiliser-plants will have to be
built, at a cost around a couple
of million apiece, Two or three
will be needed, and until they're
ready in a few years the return on
the rural outlay of capital will
be only moderate. There’s a
lean time ahead before the tide
begins to roll in.
Timber, pulp and paper are
N.Z.’s best prospects to lift
national income in the current
decade. These industries will be
quickest off the mark, and should
go a long way, but there are
many hard - headed New
Zealanders who would back
farm production to wjn the race.
Anything up to 10 years might
pass before all the runners will
be showing their best form. In
the warming-up stage, as well as
later, the trade balance will be
a reliable barometer of progress,
for these industries must export
to live, and, their biggest markets
will be abroad.
N.Z.’s other main hope is in
its geothermal steam, the raw
material for electricity and
“heavy water,” no longer a wild
dream but an ambitious venture
in which N.Z. is backed by the
British Atomic Energy Authority.
If the steam will do the double
job there’s a fortune in it, and
N.Z. will be able to capitalise on
unlimited heat and power now
going to waste in its thermal
wonderland. This is its greatest
gamble, the “gamble of the
century,” and the country should
know within three years whether
there’s anything in it. Italy got
there, so why can’t N.Z.? Its
steam passes higher tests than
Italy’s, and production and dis-
tribution costs should be lower.
State enterprise is mixed up
with business and private
industry in all these schemes
and stands to make a good thing
out of them, for the benefit of
the Welfare State, when they’re
profit-earning.


Have you time for
ALL your duties as
sr
o
*
Executor?
If the complex problems of Estate administration are
too burdensome for you, as a private executor or
trustee, why not transfer your responsibilities to
Union Trustee? The Company may be appointed
to act in your place, or jointly with you as
co-executor.
With almost 70 years of experience in the adminis-
tration and management of Estates, the Company
is well qualified to render comprehensive service in
protecting and conserving Estate assets.
Call or write for a copy of the booklet “Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees /'
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITSO
(Incorporated la Vicloria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton and Charleville
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
TO meet Australia’s expanding post-
A war iron-and-steel appetite, B.H.P.
and its big subsidiary, A.I. and S., which
now rivals the parent in size, have spent
some £46,500,000 on capital works over
the last five years. The money has come
partly from issue of new shares at a
premium, partly from borrowing on
mortgage and overdraft, and partly from
surplus earnings, etc. Because of all this,
and because new plant takes time to
develop full earning-power, the div. has
been kept at 8| p.c. for the last seven
years, and it might be a while yet before
the rate is lifted. The long-term pros-
pects for shareholders are encouraging.
To help finance further expansion, in-
cluding completion of the hot-strip mill,
etc., for manufacture of tin-plate at Port
Kembla, capital cost of which is far in
excess of original estimate, and for
erection of a 50,000-ton-p.a. steel-
rolling mill at Kwinana (W.A.), both
now well on the way, those on the co.’s
register at August 27 were offered
4,993,815 new £1 shares at a premium
of 10s, each, payable in three equal
instalments of 10s. (6s. Bd. capital in each
case) on October 18, 1954, October 21,
1955, and October 9, 1956. Paid capital
will thus become £29,962,889, on which
Si p.c. will call for £1,266,126 less than
the combined net earnings of the group
last term. Since May, 1949, £ 16,077,987
of capital will have been gathered at a
premium of 50 p.c., which makes the
8| p.c. div. worth only 5.5 p.c. in the
hands of shareholders.
Following announcement of the new
issues in 1949 and 1951 the price of the
old shares fell on each occasion by 4s.
Before the present issue was announced
the scrip stood at 465. 9d.; last week the
figure was 435. 6d., making net cost, after
exercising the rights, etc., 41s. Bd. The
return at 41s. Bd. would be 4 p.c. on an
8| p.c. div. basis. The investor who looks
for 5.7 p.c. on his money counts on a
12 p.c, distribution and/or other benefits.
The rights thus have a theoretical value
of 11s. Bd., without allowing for the time-
factor in relation to capital payments and
dividends. In view of this and other
things, including the size of the issue,
the rights are likely to become available
at figures well below theoretical value.
What puzzles many shareholders is
why the board continues to issue new
shares at premium, since, in 1940,
£4,445,859 previously gathered as share-
premiums was capitalised in a bonus
share-issue. While this matter is one of
domestic policy, the question does arise
as to whether what was good practice-,
in the past is necessarily so under the
altered conditions of today. At the
annual meeting on August 20, the chair-
man, in reply to a suggestion that a dis-
tribution should be made out of the
share-premium reserve, said “the fact of
the reserve was clearly in the minds of
the directors, and they would deal with
it at the right time.” Including the new
issue the reserve will total £8,052,919,
equal to ss. 4d. per share.
Excluding £525,000 overprovided for
taxation in 1953, B.H.P. claimed a profit
for the year to May 31 last of £2,536,666'
(up £200,611), or 10.1 p.c. on capital. But
that leaves out of the reckoning undis-
tributed profits in the subsidiaries. Here
are combined figures for the whole group,
including outside interests, which amount
to about 5i p.c. of the £47,185,498 of
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined);
Consolidated Figures
(Covering both group and outside interests.)
Gross earnings— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Working profit £8,132,290 £11,051,542 £12,474,818
Dm., etc. .. 871,616 278,533 507,290
Total .. £8,503,906 £11,330,075 £12,982,108
Depreciation .. 2,798,416 3,600,187 4,367,635
Provision plant
replacement ~ 852,000
Taxation .. 8,092,877 4,420,714 3,512,243
Other exes. .. 326,781 381,801 397,197
Total exes. .. £6,217,074 £8,402,702 £9,129,075
Net profit .. 2,286,832 2,927,373 3,853,033
Profit, sale assets 11,397 44,411 33,897
Of last term’s £3,853,033 (up £925,660) of
combined profit, £202,000-odd thus
appears to belong to outsiders. The
remaining £3,650,700-odd (up £877,000)
was 14.6 p.c. on B.H.P.’s capital com-
pared with 11.1, 10 and 11.8 p.c. for the
three preceding years. The substantial
allowance for depreciation is standard
practice with heavy industries, both here
and overseas. Obviously the subsidiaries
had a satisfactory year; and the ship-
yards at Whyalla are working at or near
capacity.
Chief factors behind the spring in
earnings were bigger output and sales and
steadier costs —additional plant came into
operation, industrial conditions were
more stable and coal and labor were in
better supply. Output of basic materials
of the two big steel plants were as
follows;
Steel Blooming
Coke, Pig-iron, Ingots, Mill,
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Newcastle . . 786,933 906,616 1,026,245 892,114
Port Kembla. .1,055,119 910,810 1,041.368 886,870
Total, 1954. . 1,842,052 1,817,426 2,067,613 1,778,984
Total, 1953. .1,623,079 1,678,010 1,767,551 1,551,090
And the improvement was carried right
down the line, through the blooming,
plate, merchant-bar, rod and other mills.
Also more by-products—tar, benzol,
ammonium sulphate, etc. —came for the
coke ovens. A year ago production of
steel-billets was running ahead of local
demand ; today it is the other way about.
Next table shows the financial set-up
of the group:
Consolidated Figures.
Outside
/ —B.H.P Shareholders’ Sundry
Capital. Reserves. Interests.* Creditors,t
£ £ £ £
1950.. 17,777,083 12.107,414 2,293,532 9,516,265
1951.. 20,852,300 14,443,636 2,310,002 12,095,927
1952.. 24,944,196 16,786,052 2,386,221 17.134,832
1953.. 24,969,074 17,553,565 2,358,463 26,758,048
1954.. 24,969.074 19,753,496 2,462,928 30,394,974
Fixed Stocks, Book Other
Assets. Stores, Etc. Debts. Assets.
1 £ £ £ £
1950.. 22,517,069 8,838,696 2,811,249 7,527,170
1951.. 26,389,915 10,593,218 3,001,402 9,717.330
1952.. 32,407,341 14,841,154 4,590,866 9,891,940
1953.. 41,019,273 19,145,534 6,072,277 5,402,066
1954.. 46,805,758 20,429,614 5,726,316 4,618,784
* Including proportion reserves. t Includes tax
provision.
To help meet the year’s net additions of
£5,786,485 to fixed assets and £1,284,080
to stocks, etc., £3,636,926 was added to
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
which includes provision for taxation.
Demand for the co.’s products con-
tinues at a high level, and a lot of capital
is still represented by plant not yet earn-
ing its keep. And because existing profit-
margins do not give an adequate return
on funds employed—the proportion of
new and -expensive to old and cheap
plant has greatly increased—a further lift
in selling-prices will be necessary, the
chairman says. The Australian price of
steel has increased threefold since 1939.
Meggitt, Ltd.
"pROM well-equipped factories at Syd-
A ney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Bris-
bane the co.—biggest of its kind in the
Commonwealth—turns out and markets
linseed-oil, linseed-meal and stock-foods.
The two principal consumers of the oil
are the paint and lino, industries. The
stock-foods have long enjoyed a wide
market in the dairying and pastoral
industries, where they enrich the butter-
fats and enhance fat-lamb-, mutton-,
beef- and wool-production.
Despite wide fluctuations in trading and
economic conditions, the co. has been a
fairly steady and good dividend-payer
over the last 18 years, during which dis-
tributions averaged 9.5 p.c. A steady 10
p.c, was paid for the five years to 1941,
followed by a regular 7| p.c. for the six
years to 1947, and then 10 p.c. for the
seven years to May 31 last, with a 2\ p.c.
bonus added in 1950 and again last term.
Meanwhile substantial additions were
made to premises and plant, and paid
for mostly out of earnings and borrowed
funds ; only £41,813 was added to paid
capital.
On the production side one of the chief
troubles since war ended has been irregu-
lar supplies of imported linseed, which
has come mostly from India. So far as
earnings are concerned, however, the
effects were largely offset by the proces-
sing and packing of imported oils and
by a small supply of home-grown linseed.
Last term the value of Australian im-
ports of linseed-oil increased by nearly
94 p.c., reaching £1,585,000, and there
was a steady fall in prices—overseas pro-
duction ran ahead of demand. The co.’s
own imports of the stuff grew consider-
ably in volume, and extensions and im-
proyements were made to the refining
section of the mills, all of which were
kept busy. However, the fall in prices
and heavy imports of oil dealt a severe
blow to the infant linseed-growing
industry in Australia. A year ago, when
the overseas price of linseed stood around
£65 a ton, crushers offered local growers
a guaranteed figure of £75 a ton, but only
a token crop was planted.
During the year demand for all the
co.’s products strengthened, while costs
were steadier and taxation was lighter.
After allowing £25,600 (down £581) for
depreciation and unstated amounts for
taxation and “various” contingencies, the
board wrote net earnings £8552 stronger
at a record £62,485:
y Dividends
Pref.* Re-
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.f
£ £ £ £
1949.. 46,192 4000 10 p.c. = 32,737 3,612
1950.. 58,786 4000 12} „ „ 46,148 12,250
To staff fund, £5OOO 7,250
1951.. 56,593 4000 10 p.c. = 36,918 22,925
1952.. 51,939 4000 10 „ „ 36,918 33,946
1953.. 53,933 4000 10 „ „ 36,918 46,961
1954.. 62,485 4000 12},, „ 46,148 59,298
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 49,298
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act.
t After deducting goodwill, £115,748.
After paying the pref. divs. the balance
of the year’s profit was 15.8 p.c, on the
£369,182 of ord. capital compared with
13.5, 13, 14.3, 14,8 and 12.9 p.c. back to
1949. And a 2\ p.c. bonus was added to
the 10 p.c. div., making 12| p.c. for the
year. Though free reserves are only
£49,298 in excess of the goodwill item
(£115,748), there is also an accumulation
of £332,595 earmarked for depreciation
and replacements.
With supplies and prices easier and
demand stronger, the co. was able to
reduce stocks (down £322,488) and book-
debts (down £202,531) and the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc. (down
£164,571) as well as strengthen the hold-
ing of cash and investments (up
£395,732):
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £409,182 £409,182 £409,182
Reserves .. .. 149,694 162,709 165,046
Deprec. reserve .. 286,681 311,291 332,595
Overdraft .. .. 915,258
Sundry creditors* 891,358 968,187 803,616
Staff fund .. 29,000 29,000 39,000
Final divs. .. 20,459 24,551 29,659
£2,701,627 £1,904,920 £1,779,128
Premises ~ .. 160,404 158,925 152,964
Plant .. .. 352,933 399,936 409,392
Stocks .. .. 1,606,226 651,779 329,291
Book debts .. 303,705 376,286 178,755
Cash, etc. .. 162,611 202,246 597,978
Goodwill .. .. 115,748 115,748 115,748
£2,701,627 £1,904,920 £1,779,128
* Includes suspense accounts.
The net addition to the book-value of
fixed assets was only £3495, despite the
extension and improvements already
referred to. The growth in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£228,719) was
£20,139.
Prospects for the current term are
bright, and the market prices the f.-p.
£1 ords. at 38s. 6d. (335. a year ago) to
return 6.5 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. distribution.
Including the depreciation, etc., reserve,
net tangible cover is 40s. Bd. The well-
protected prefs. seldom appear on
’Change,
Mercantile Mutual Insurance
■CXCEPT for marine business, this 75-
year-old, Sydney-controlled fire,
marine and accident office confines its
underwriting activities to the Common-
wealth ; and of recent years it hasn’t
missed anything in consequence thereof.
The co. put on a lot of weight since the
war, and the growth has been profitable.
After a long run of 9 p.c. divs. to 1946,
the rate climbed by annual steps to 12j
p.c. in 1949, and has remained steady
since, with a 2\ p.c. bonus added in 1953.
To help finance expansion, as well as
provide additional protection for policy-
holders, those on the share-register put
up £378,072 of fresh capital, plus £250,000
of share-premiums, since 1950. Last new
issue was half a million £1 shares at a
premium of 10s. each in August, 1951.
On that lot a further ss. a share was got
in three months before the close of last
accounts, making 15s. in all. The remain-
ing 55., payable December 31 next, will
lift paid capital to £1,000,000, on which
\l\ p.c. will call for £93,202 less profit
than was claimed last term:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit, f Dividends N serves. serves.*
£> £ £ £
1949. .113,869 12} p.c. = 50,000 63,869 686,088
To unexpired risks, £48,800 .. 634,888
1960. .123,763 12} p.c, = 52,083 71,670 706,558
To unexpired risks, £98,200 .. 804,758
1951. .141,372 12} p.c. = 62,500 78,872 883,630
Share premiums, £250,000 .. .. 1,133,630
To unexpired risks, £168,000 .. 1,296,630
1952.. 147,674 12} p.c. = 78,125 69,549 1,366,179
To unexpired risks, £87,000 .. 1,453,179
1953.. 215.040 16 p.c. =112,500 ]go ug 1 545 719
Provident fund, £lO,OOO j 9i,54 ° 1,546,719
To unexpired risks, £lOO,OOO .. 1,645,719
Tax overprovision, £30,000 .. .. 1,675,719
1954. .218,202 12} p.c. = 97,656 120,546 1,796,265
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks, £760,000 at
SO/6/’54.
An overprovision of £30,000 for taxa-
tion in 1953 has been passed to general
reserves. Of the £218,202 of profit, equal
to 21.8 p.c. on a million of capital,
£127,082 (down £17,468) came from
underwriting and £91,120 (up £20,630)
from investments.
At last term’s rate of growth
the net return from investments
will exceed 121 P-c on the million of
capital inside the next two years, thus
leaving the underwriting surplus available
to swell investments and returns there-
from. It is this aspect of the position
which enhances the investment possibili-
ties of the scrip as a holding proposition.
On the underwriting side the business
has continued to expand. Of last term’s
£3,480,994 (up £365,538) of gross
premiums, £1,667,081 (up £131,788) was
reinsured, leaving the growth in net
premiums at £233,750:-
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
£ & &
1949. 657,827 272,576 279,027 41.4 p.c. 42.4 p.c.
1961. 1,014.512 408,007 405,195 40.2 „ 39.9 „
1952. 1,431,000 648,784 516,576 45.3 .. 36.1 „
1953. 1,580,163 714,581 634,032 45.2 ~ 40.1 ~
1954. 1,813,913 950,302 636,529 52.4 „ 35.1 „
The sudden leap of £7 4s. p.c. in the
loss rate was due to a crop of claims
following the earthquake disturbance in
the Adelaide district —insurance cos. as
a whole have been called upon to pay
well over £2,000,000 on account of the
damage. The heartening feature is that
the bigger business was written at £5
p.c. less cost. The gross underwriting
surplus was £227,082 (down £4468), of
which £lOO,OOO (up £13,000) was set aside
for unexpired risks, lifting the reserve
therefor to £760,000, or 41.9 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums, which is a bit more


OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5j ins. x 3 h ins.,
61 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
e
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan S;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 306 QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
è
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER. 8.A., B.Sc„
fuifft in the
future
. is
m:
A sense of balance is one of the most important
gifts in life. Those who possess it can usually get the
best .out of their other attributes.
We know, of course, that “balance” is a relative
word. It has one meaning for the keeper of accounts,
and quite another for the man who walks a tight rope
in a circus.
But to most of us it conveys that simple quality
which enables one to apply the proper values to the
art of living.
Balance is as important to a nation as to an
individual. Let us consider it in relation to Australia.
The tide is running in for this country. The
national product was never so high, employment nevei
so full, the invitation to expand never so open.
The chief factor in that prosperity is the wealth
won from the land. More precisely, our well-being
at the moment depends largely on the sale of wool
at good prices.
With less than one-sixth of the world’s sheep,
Australia produces one-quarter of the world’s wool—
about one-half, if we confine it to the market for
fine quality Merino.
The value of the clip in the year just ended was
about one-third of the value from all rural production.
What has wool to do with “balance”? Just this:
the level of the Australian economy will be high so
long as the world price for wool is maintained. We
hope it will be for many years.
Meanwhile we should be building up our other
great industries as rapidly as possible, to cushion die
effect of any possible fall in wool prices: in other
words, getting more balance into the national
development.
One of the most obvious ways to do it, in my
opinion, is in the expansion of beef.
Beef is a “natural” for Australia. Britain wants
what we can supply. She has made our boosting of
production a condition of the 15-year meat agreement.
That is assurance for the present.
Every road or railway we build into our cattle
country, every water facility we provide for stock, is
a larger insurance for the future.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to —
NAM£
ADDRESS
12 months £l/1 6/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign £2/10/-
(Please add exchange to country cheques)
than usually considered adequate
for the purpose.
The protection for both policy-
holders and shareholders is in
this form:
1952. 1953. 1954.
£ £ £
Paid
capital.. 750,000 750,000 878,072
Reserves .. 1,366,178 1,545,718 1,796,264
Sundry
creditors 1,108,578 1,305,345 1,548,595
Tax reserve 98,786 191,500 112,000
Final divs. 42,969 65,625 50,781
3.366.511 3,858,188 4,385,712
Freeholds,
etc. .. 733,517 768,755 824,756
Mortgages. 90,308 122,514 134,893
Govt, securi-
ties, shares,
etc. .. 1,988,356 2,423,857 2,847,130
Book debts 348,471 383.019 460,200
Cash, etc. 205,859 160,043 118,733
3.366.511 3,858,188 4,385,712
The amount coming to sundry
creditors (up £243,250) consists
mainly of provision for outstand-
ing claims and reinsurances.
Purchase of branch premises,
etc., added £56,001 to the book-
value of freeholds. The net addi-
tions of £423,273 to Government
securities and shareholdings, etc.,
augur well for the return from
investments.
Fire, marine and workers'
compensation are the most profit-
able sections of the business.
Recent lifts in premium-rates for
motor-vehicle and third-party
risks —the latter are likely to be
further increased —should help
to bring about healthier results
in these fields.
At 695. (635, a year ago) the
f.-p. £1 shares return 3.6 p.c.
on a 121 p.c. div. basis. On the
same basis the 155.-paid contribs.
give an immediate return of
3.2 p.c., or 3.9 p.c. when fully
paid. Obviously the market is
prepared to wait for its benefits.
Including unpaid capital, net
tangible cover is 555. lid. per
share.
Cent. Norseman Gold Corp.
STAR performer of the four
gold-producers in Western
Mining Corp.’s stable. Central
Norseman has a paid capital of
£650,000 in f.-p. ss. shares, of
which W.M.C. owns 51 p.c. It
is working the Phoenix and
Princess Royal mines at Norse-
man (W.A.). Extraction of all
known ore from the Lady Miller
was completed last term, and the
mine has been closed down.
Over the last couple of years
shareholders have reaped the
benefits of recent heavy expendi-
ture on development and shaft-
sinking, the target being higher-
grade ore at depth. Last term
the mill handled 6130 tons less
ore, and the gold recovery was
down 1181 fine ounces —there
was little change in average
grade (9.97dwt.) dr recovery
(96 p.c.):
Ore Recoveries--^
Treated, Gold, Silver, Profit. Divs.
Tons. Oz. Oz. £ £
25%
’50.137,689 44,924 31,789 182,628 162,500
15%
’51.153,928 41,429 40,536 115,927 97,500
10%
’52.149,088 49,091 47,198 207,987 65,000
50%
’53.161,444 78,591 53,581 614,745 325,000
60%
’54.155,314 77,410 56,926 514,794 390,000
Chief causes of the slip of
£99,951 in the 1954 profit .figure
were growth in costs (89.35., up
5.95., per ton) and drop in gold-
premium receipts (£18,538, down
£52,974). The open-market
premium on gold has now virtu-
ally disappeared; but the Aus-
tralian statutory price has been
increased by 2s. Bd., making it
£l5 12s. 6d. per fine ounce.
The £514,794 of profit was
79.9 p.c. on capital as against
94.6, 32 and 18.6 p.c. for the
three preceding terms. The
board, however, considered the
outlook good enough to step-up
the div. from 50 p.c. to 60 p.c.,
and a further Is. 6d. per share
(30 p.c.) has been sent out since
the close of accounts.
Expenditure on development,
charged against earnings, was
£124,251 (up £11,240). Of 8589 ft.
(down 1715 ft.) of driving, etc.,
2814 ft. was in ore averaging from
lO.ldwt. to 18.6dwt. over a width
of 53in. On the Princess Royal
vein the shaft was sunk a further
317 ft. to a depth of 1238 ft., and
the Regent shaft, Mararoa vein,
advanced 51ft. to a depth of
3566 ft. (No. 36 level). The mine
continues to open up nicely at
depth.
Ore reserves at last two balanc-
ing dates compare as follows:
, 1953 \ , 1954—,
Ore, Ode., Ore, Gde.,
Tons. Dwt. Tons. Dwt.
Phoenix .. 138,683 7.0 114,200 7.6
Princess Royal 245,409 10.5 278,600 10.0
Lady Miller.. 7,221 4.5
Total .. 391,313 9.0 392,800 9.3
Development is thus over 21-
years ahead of the mill at last
term’s rate of extraction, with
prospects of a lot more payable
stuff being brought in.
When the books closed stores
stood at £159,135 ; and there was
£218,169 in cash, and gold in
course of realisation, etc., to
meet £67,834 coming to sundry
creditors.
The market prices the scrip at
31s. 9d. as against 17s. a couple
of years ago.
Australasian Oil Exploration’s
chief geologist, J. E. Ridgway,
says first tests of the co.’s re-
cently acquired Mary Kathleen
uranium leases, Mt. Isa field
(Q.), suggest that 1,350,000 tons
of “high-grade” ore might be-
come available. A section of
the hillside on the lease is esti-
mated to contain 600,000 tons of
“very high-grade ore,” contain-
ing pitchblende and other
uranium minerals. If the lode
persists below the outcrop an
additional 750,000 tons ore
might become available for
quarrying. Specimen samples
assayed from 0.2 p.c. to 30.0 p.c.
uranium oxide. At this stage too
much notice should not be taken
of estimates of possible tonnage,
or of the assay values. Until the
prospect has been sytematically
tested by shaft-sinking, driving,
drilling and sampling, no reli-
able estimate of its commercial
value can be formed. All that
can be said definitely at the
moment is that present indica-
tions are uncommonly promising.
The co., which is also drilling for
oil at Reid’s Dome, south of
Rolleston (Q.), is making a one-
to-one new issue of ss. shares,
payable 2s. 6d. application and
allotment, and the balance as re-
quired. Present paid capital is
£445,000 in 5,000,000 ss. shares,
of which 4,600,000 are called to
2s. 6d. each. Last week the con-
tribs. sold at 18s. 9d. as against
235. on August 20.
* ♦ * ♦
To finance oil - prospecting
activities in the Gippsland basin
(Yip.), where it holds a
petroleum - prospecting licence.
Oil and Mineral Quest, N.L. —
formerly Silverton Silver Mines,
N.L. —is on the market with a
par issue of 1,000,000 new
shares of 2s. 6d. each, payable
6d. application and the balance
as required. Those on the co.’s
register are offered 600,000 of
the new shares, two-for-one, and
400.000 have been taken firm by
Messrs. Beach and Telfer,
Adelaide brokers. Petroleum-
engineer I. R. Lightner says the
co.’s leases are as favorably
located as any others in the
basin, and recommends com-
mencement of drilling as soon
as possible.
« ♦ * ♦
Westralian Oil, Ltd., spon-
sored by the Esperance Oil Syn-
dicate, has just left the stocks
in Perth with a nominal capital
of £5,000,000 in ss. shares, of
which the public is offered
6,691,000, payable 2s. applica-
tion, and the balance in Is. calls
at end of January, March and
June next. The syndicate gets
900.000 fully-paids, plus the
right to take up 2,400,000 con-
tribs. in addition to the public
issue, which is not underwritten.
The co. will take over from the
syndicate oil-prospecting rights
in the southern part of the Fitz-
roy Desert Basin.


Women's Letters
STDNCy
In speaking to delegates to the seventh
Younger Sets Annual Conference of the
Country Women’s Association last Satur-
day the State president of the C.W.A.,
Mrs. W. H. Cullen, remarked that it was
often said of young people of today that
they did not have a sense of responsi-
bility ; but this sense was all a matter of
keeping one’s word. To be trusted, said
Mrs. Cullen, is one of the greatest respon-
sibilities anyone can bear, and to betray
a trust is one of the most terrible things
one can do.
The guest-speaker at the conference
was Adelina Agbayani, who spoke on life
in the Philippines. Mrs. L. G. Kay was
in the chair, and Miss Jean Scott gave an
outline of the organisation of younger-
sets in Queensland. Elaine Smith
accepted the Cullen-Macintosh Cup on
behalf of Gloucester, which had had
the greatest increase in membership dur-
ing the year; Elaine Chapman, represent-
ing the Hunter River Group, received the
Gladys Brooks Trophy (a silver gong)
awarded for the greatest increase in the
number of younger-sets during the year.
☆ ☆ *
Mr. and Mrs. R. Instone opened their
Wooilahra home to visitors last Satur-
day to raise funds for the Y.W.C.A., and
so gave the opportunity to nearly 1000
people of viewing an extensive art-collec-
tion and beautiful flower-arrangements in
a home-setting. The “flowers” ranged
from Japanese magnolias in a pewter
tea-pot for the dining-rooms, through
elaborate camellia bowls in the lounge,
tiny snowdrop and daisy groupings in
the bedroom, to a colorful assembling of
red-peppers, egg-plant, lemons and dried
seed-pods in the study. Among the guests
(who came and went all day) were Lady
Davis, Mrs. Gregory Blaxland, Mrs.
Nigel Smith, Mrs. H. H. McNali, Mrs.
Felix Arnott, Mrs. C. E. Winston, Mrs.
W. T. McClelland, Mrs. Phyllis Burke,
Mr. Walter Taylor and Mr. Stanley
Lipscombe.
☆ ☆ £
Mrs. Murray Robson, wife of the new'
Leader of the Opposition in the State
Parliament, is well-known as Sue Other
Gee for her work with the Red Cross
and in the A.I.F. as a nursing orderly.
She was a member of the British Red
Cross as a V.A. before the war began,
and in 1939 was commandant of the Point
Piper V.A.D. She then joined the A.I.F.
and served with the 2/7 A.G.H. in the
Middle East, and later with the 2/5
A.G.H. in New Guinea. She married
Lieut.-Colonel Murray Robson in 1950,
and in 1951 was appointed honorary
director of the Red Cross branches in
N.S.W. She is now a member of the Red
Cross Divisional Council and president
of the Rose Bay Red Cross branch,
•
☆ ☆ ☆
A beautiful dress of white organdie
embroidered with white orchids was worn
by the “bride of the week,” Judith Killen,
when she married Major John Swinton,
of the Scots Guards, at All Saints Church,
Wooilahra, last Thursday. The dress was
cut with a full skirt extending to a train
at the back and opening in the front on
a tulle underskirt. Flowers from the dress
outlined the neckline, and the sleeves
were long and tight. She wore a diamond-
and-pcarl tiara with her full tulle veil,
and her flowers were white hyacinths and
snowrops. Bridesmaids were Winsome
Headlam, Robin Stanton, Jennifer
Hinder and Diane Green (Brisbane), all
of whom wore long dresses of white silk-
organza with a fine gold stripe which was
reflected in the gold embroidery on their
tiny white satin curvettes and the yellow
and white flowers in their bouquets.
Distinguished guests at the wedding
included the Governor-General (to whom
Major Swinton is aide-de-camp) and
Lady Slim; the Governor of N.S.W.,
Sir John Northcott, and his daughter
Mrs. Russell Nash ; and Lady Gairdner,
wife of the Governor of West Australia.
After the ceremony a reception was held
at the Royal Sydney Golf Club, where
400 guests were welcomed by the bride’s
parents, Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Killen, of
Riverside Park, Burradoo, and Merribee,
Barellan.
☆ * *
The 42nd birthday of the Overseas
League was celebrated by the N.S.W.
branch (itself 27 years old) with a party
at its club-rooms, when Air-Vice-Marshal
A. L. Walters was guest-of-honor, and
his daughter Robin cut the cake. Guests
included Sir John knd Lady McLaren,
Adelaide visitors Mr. and Mrs. Gordon
P, Hodgson (who have come to live in
Sydney), Mrs. Malcolm Phillips (who is
on holiday here) and English visitor Mrs.
K. E. Fraser (on a trip round the world).
Guest of Mrs. Lester Towner was
Anthony Smith, of Rotorua (N.Z.), with
Mrs. D. Louden, Miss Margaret Power
and Miss Mary Power. Major and Mrs.
C. Chapman helped the president, Sir
Keith Smith, to welcome the guests
Diana Macgillicuddy, whose engage-
ment to Cedric Cullen has just been an-
nounced, is the elder daughter of the
late Colonel P. E. Macgillicuddy and of
Mrs. Macgillicuddy, of Mosman. Her
fiancé is the elder son of Mr. and Mrs .
G. F. Cullen, of Wollstonecraft. The
engagement was celebrated with a party
at Diana’s home on Sunday. The young
couple plan to marry early next year.
The Victoria League’s reception in
honor of Lady Slim brought about 240
of its members to Prince’s last week,
and each was presented personally to the
guest-of-honor. Welcoming Lady Slim
and Lady Gairdner, wife of the Governor
of West Australia, were Mrs. H. H. Mc-
Nall, Mrs. R. R. Dowling, Mrs. Alan
Foott, Mrs. H. A. Showers, Mrs. Bert-
ram Wright, Mrs. G. I. D. Hutcheson,
Mrs. E. W. Woodward, Mrs. H. B. Farn-
comb, Mrs. Robert Dixson, Mrs. Ernest
Street, Miss Rose Merrivale, Mrs. R. T.
Russell and Miss Bett Bercli, president of
the younger set. Features of the occa-
sion were the highly decorative cakes de-
signed with flags, crests and crowns, or
shaped with meringue into baskets with
strawberries. These adorned the official
table and were later brought round
among the guests. r
☆ ☆ ☆
Mr. Hal Missingham opened the ex-
hibition of textile designs in the Leroy-
Alcorso contest now showing at Grace
Bros., and spoke of the part which the
artist must play in setting the standard
of taste for the community. Artist Doug-
las Annand won first prize of £3OO with
a design combining originality, precision
and fine draftsmanship. The prize in the
junior section was won by an eight-year-
old boy, Andrew Blunden, of Balwyn,
Melbourne, whose design was inspired
by an illuminated city seen from the
air. Mrs. Carmen Blake (Turramurra,
N.S.W.) won a £25 award with an imag-
inative and subtly-suggested “circus”
print, and Miss Ruth Noad (Caulfield,
Vic.) won two awards with delicate
designs in elegant colorings. This was one
of those art exhibitions in which the work
of the eight-year-old could be unques-
tionably picked out, not so common an
occurrence as one might think these days.
☆ * *
It is interesting to consider whether the
suffragettes, in fighting for women’s
rights, were not in fact still accepting
male standards in doing so. This was sug-
gested by Mrs. Frank Sheed in a talk
to the Catholic Women’s Club luncheon
during the week. As women of high
moral principles, said Mrs. Sheed, those
who fought for women’s rights wanted
the moral law improved all along the
line and expected that men would be
raised to their standards. They would be
astonished at the position of things today,
when on a woman’s shoulders are often
laid two burdens: she does a full day’s
work at her job and then comes home
and does another day’s work.
Mrs. Sheed conceded that the hus-
band nearly always helps her (although
he probably wouldn’t mind sleeping in
an unmade bed or object to a lower
standard of housekeeping generally), but
a woman cannot reject her home-making
instinct. Women had to fight a big fight
to earn certain privileges, but often for-
got what it involves to be a woman.
M ELID'D UK NIC
The top designers of the fashion
world, Christian Dior, Balmain, Jacques
Path and Heim, were represented in a
collection of spring and summer models
shown in the Chambrelent salon.
Madame Chambrelent also showed a
number of her own original designs, in
keeping with overseas trends.
There were collars, buttons and bows
for trimmings. Especially notable was
the deep sailor-collar by Path. This was
often finished with a large bow and long
streamer-ends. Flat bows emphasised
the new, low waistline, and were set
either at the centre-front or centre-back
and mostly at hip-level. The button-
through coat-frock was used extensively.
One pencil-slim afternoon-frock had an
inverted-pleat down the front to give a
coat effect. Buttons, too, were used
cleverly to give charm to other styles.
Smart and elegant was a black linen
sheath-frock with a wide sailor-collar of
snowy white pique. Pure silk in a donkey-
brown shade fashioned a frock which
featured a side-draped bodice and a
sheath-skirt buttoned down one side. A
tobacco-brown silk-faille Princess-coat
had a flat bow at the back of the waist,
and under it was a sleeveless frock of
grey, white and brown patterned silk. An
unusual flat bow of satin, which extended
into a panel at the side, was a feature
of a navy faille frock with a white faille
collar on the bodice. Tiny upstanding
pockets were seen on the skirt of a navy
foulard suit by Balmain.
A Chambrelent original in a donkey-
brown, grey, white and pink pure-silk
afternoon-frock had a modified sailor-
collar finishing in soft folds at the front,
and an accordion-pleated skirt. Another
Chambrelent model was a strapless short
silk-organza dinner-frock in mixed pinks
and donkey-brown over a skirt of knife-
pleated tulle ; a huge bow of orchid-pink
satin was set in front of the bodice.
Other features noted in this collection
were the cluster of pink roses set at the
base of the deep V-back opening on the
bodice of a bottle-green taffeta dinner-
frock ; the jet buttons fastening the back
of a deep sailor-collar; the double
knife-pleats in Dior’s umbrella - skirt
seen in a frock of parchment pure-silk ;
and the lovely Thomas Harrison salon
hats worn by the models.
☆☆ . ☆
Noted at the first Jose Iturbi recital at
the St. Kilda Palais; Mrs. June Myers,
whose frock and matching full-length
coat were of royal-blue-and-gold lame ;
Mrs. Norman P. Lynch, in a short black
frock which had heavy silver embroidery
at the rounded neckline; Mrs. Don
Hutchison, her full-skirted frock of
bronze Chantilly lace ; Mrs. R. H. Solly,
who covered her frock with a full-length
dyed-ermine coat; Mrs. Frank Martin,
who wore a black dinner-frock and a
dyed-ermine coat.
* * ☆ .
Wesley College Chapel was the setting
for the wedding of Valerie Joy, younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. G. Staley,
of Brighton, and Brian David, only son
of Mrs. E. Boston, also of Brighton, and
the late Mr. N. L. Boston, The bride’s
lovely gown of white French velvet had
pearls and rhinestones encrusted on the
rounded neckline and the long, tight-
fitting sleeves. The skirt featured un-
pressed pleats, with the fullness at the
back falling into a long train. A pearl
coronet held the filmy tulle veil, and
the bouquet was of white gardenias and
hyacinths.
Matron-of-honor was Mrs. Hamilton
Smith; Pat Osborne and Shirley (“Tim”)
O’Connor —she is Valerie’s niece—were
bridesmaids. They wore frocks of pastel-
blue ring-velvet with the hooped skirts
corded at the hem, and matching plaited
coronets ; their bouquets were of vari-
colored hyacinths. Best man was lan
Tyson and ’groomsmen Jim Betts and
Alan Lewin.
Reception took the form of a dinner-
dance at Giro’s, where Mr. and Mrs.
Staley and Mrs. Boston received over 100
Mrs. Staley’s corded faille
sheath-frock was in copper tonings and
ner hat was made of white hyacinths.
Mrs. Boston’s steel-grey frock and jacket
were embroidered with black sequins;
her cloche was of black straw, softly
veiled. Sister of the bride, Mrs. Betty
O’Connor, wore a tent-coat of black
velvet and a small white feather-beret.
Among the guests were Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Lee, Mr. and Mrs. E. Davies, Mrs
A. B. Hudson, Mr. and Mrs. L. Col-
quhoun (Albury), Jill Chapman (Sydney),
Mrs. Jim Betts (in a tangerine pleated-
chiffon frock), Mrs. S. Aarons (her navy
silk-shantung frock had a pleated float-
ing side-panel) and Mrs. John Barns,
whose nigger- brown shantung frock was
gold-striped.
* ☆ ☆
The “Anniversary Show” at the Tivoli
celebrates the 10th anniversary of David
N. Martin’s managing-directorship of the
Tivoli circuit in Australia and N.Z.
Star of the show is Allan Jones. The
Tivolovelies wore an array of eye-taking
costumes in the ballet-scenes. Among
first-nighters were the Royden Honey-
mans, Mr. and Mrs. S. Aarons, Mr. and
Mrs. John Carrodus, the George Griffiths,
the Leo Guests, Jose Iturbi, Mr. and
Mrs. Dick Linton and Mr. and Mrs.
W. H. McKechnie.
* ☆ *
The Royal Melbourne Hospital will
benefit from two functions now being
arranged. There will be a dinner-dance
at Giro’s on Friday, September 17,
organised by the Whernside Junior
Auxiliary, president of which is Margaret
Anne Jupp. Tickets may be obtained
from Mrs. Ross Shelmerdine (8J3430).
Second function is to be an Irish Fashion
Parade on Saturday, September 25. This
will be in the Myer Mural Hall, tickets
five-guineas each. Entree-cards are
obtainable from Mr. R. Anderson
(FY22O) or from Miss V. B. Stephens
(FJ0266, Ext. 371). The evening will
commence with cocktails at 6.30 and will
be followed by a champagne-dinner and
the Parade.
Mary Anne, the only daughter of Mr.
Frank McDonald, of Bellevue Hill,
Sydney, and the late Mrs. McDonald, is,
at 20, already well on the way to a
fashion-career. Also. she assists her aunt,
Mrs. J. Houre, run the well-known mil-
linery salon which her late mother, as
Anne Collins, founded. A frequent visitor
to Melbourne, Mary Anne is a member of
the White City ( N.S.W .) tennis-club, and
surfs and sails in the summer. A John
Warlow photo.
Large urns of mixed flowers, with pink
predominating, were set against pink
draperies in the dining-hall at Menzies’
when a dinner and mannequin-parade
was held for the Animal Welfare League’s
Lort Smith Hospital. President of the
organising committee, Mrs. D. J. S.
Mackinnon, with her husband received
the official guests, who included Lady
Herring, Mrs. Harold Holt, Mr. and Mrs.
John George (of George’s, which provided
the fashions), Mrs. S. Brearley, Frank
Timson and Commander Samuel Sanders,
U.S. Military Attache.
Mrs. Mackinnon wore a peacock-blue
silk-jersey gown which had a halter-
necked bodice, softly pleated, and skirt
of unpressed pleats. A stole of shocking-
pink tulle and matching satin shoes were
added for contrast. Ticket-secretaries
were Mrs. Maurice Nathan, whose short,
strapless frock of white satin was
embroidered with tear-drop pearls, and
Mrs. L. R. Buxton, whose ankle-length
frock was of black lace over cinnamon
taffeta and encrusted with opalescent
sequins.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND CLIFFORD BURROWS
late of No. 106 Ooulburn Street Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that OLGA PEARL
BURROWS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1930 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend, you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 16th December
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from D. G. STUART,
Solicitor, of 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO ERNEST REGINALD HENRI E
DEOTT formerly of 18 Glebe Road Glebe
Point.—TAKE NOTICE that ETTIE IVY
PEARL DEOTT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4328 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 16th day of December 1954 and obtain
a copy of" the Petition without charge
from JOHN WARREN BINNEV,
Solicitor, of 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY ANN KEMSLEY late of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that ALFRED JESSE
KEMSLEY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1783 of 1951 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 16th day of De-
cember 1954 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JOHN
BARNETT GREAVES, Solicitor, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar. _
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STANLEY AUSTRALIA THRUSSELL
late of C/o Robert Corbett, Pty. Ltd.
Epping Road Lane Cove. —TAKE
that DOREEN ESTHER THRUSSELL has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 300 ot
1954 on the grounds of habitual drunken-
ness and cruelty for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syo-
ney bv the' 13th December 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. W,
MOSELEY, LINCOLN-SMITH & CO..
Solicitors, of 51 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney ._o. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Iced “Rose Mafic”
That ancient favorite “Rose
Marie” has been taken out of
cold-storage at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne, and put on ice in the
boldest experiment the Firm has
tried for a long time.
Nobody but a pedant would
say that the experiment isn’t
eminently successful. It is true
that good lighting won’t improve
bad art, any more than an
Oxford accent improves bad
thinking, but “Rose Marie”
doesn’t happen to be art, so a
bit of irrelevant movement, so
long as it is pleasant in itself
and as enchantingly graceful as
Pat Gregory’s, doesn’t hurt it.
The acting of the skaters isn’t
any worse than the acting of
some actors, and if some actors
and actresses didn’t act but
skated they would do far less
damage to a playwright’s inten-
tions than the skaters are doing
to the current opus. The same
might be said with reference to
the music and the innocuous
dialogue and patter. Moreover,
the comic skating of Kenny
Lamb is funnier than all the
comedy in all the musical-
comedies that ever were, lumped
together.
That is not to be taken, how-
ever, as an encouragement to the
Firm to put “Hamlet” on ice or
“King Lear” on skis or “La
Tosca” on the tightrope. But it
might be worth while considering
the feasibility of mounting
Gilbert and Sullivan on motor-
cycles.
*
Mahler’s “Song of the Earth”
Although it is 46 years since
Gustav Mahler wrote this big
work, which fuses the form of
the song-cycle with that of the
symphony, it had its first Aus-
tralian performance in Sydney
last week with the Sydney
Orchestra under Goossehs, and
with singers Florence Taylor
(contralto) and Max Worthley
(tenor).
Of the six songs which com-
prise it, settings of ancient
Chinese poems, four are per-
vaded with a gentle melancholy
and they are rather dry and
severe. Of the remaining two,
“Youth” stands out as an
example of the best Mahler song-
writing. But generally the work
falls below the high standard of
combined song and symphony
which the composer set for him-
self in the “Resurrection”
Symphony.
The singers acquitted them-
selves well of an unenviable task,
for, apart from the austerity of
the songs themselves, the
orchestral background gave them
little assistance, and the tonal
weight of the instruments was
often loaded against them.
Max Worthley has an easily
produced tenor of attractive
timbre which he uses stylishly ;
he commands high notes which
carry well on the half-voice, and
he can produce good volume
without sacrifice of quality.
Florence Taylor’s contralto was,
as usual, dependable.
The other major work was
Brahms’s Symphony No, 3, a
performance below the
orchestra’s best.
♦♦♦
Melbourne Concerts
Jose Iturbi, previously best
known in Melbourne in films,
appeared the other evening at
the Palais Theatre, St. Kilda,
with the sighing of the sea taking
the place of the fizzing of the
cinema apparatus. He played,
sometimes correctly, a pro-
gramme of Mozart, Schumann
and Brahms, and, sometimes a
law unto Iturbi, Ravel, and
finally and brilliantly a string of
Spanish lyrics. Competence
without much inspiration was the
keynote, and one half of the
audience, which had seen him
in the pictures, would have
probably been equally enthralled
if he had slipped into boogie-
woogie,
A performance of a different
order was Alceo Galliera’s con-
ducting of the Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra through
Wagner’s Prelude and Liebestod
from “Tristan and Isolde,” and
Beethoven’s Pastoral Symphony,
at Melbourne Town Hall.
Players and conductor appeared
to be in even more perfect agree-
ment on this occasion than at
previous meetings, and the result
was a lovely concert.
*;♦ ♦>
Drama Festival
The Australian universities’
drama festival, held in Sydney
University this year, was dis-
tinguished by excellent per-
“Have a go at these , sister."
formances of John Vanbrugh’s
“The Relapse” and Philip Barry’s
“The Philadelphia Story,” and
by pretty dreadful assaults on
Cocteau, Fry and Anouilh.
“The Relapse,” a satirical
sequel to Colley Cibber’s “Love’s
Last Shift,” was produced by
Allan Kendall for Sydney Uni-
versity, and he caught the essen-
tial mood very well with the aid
of a cast wide awake to the
spirit and humor of the piece.
The women had the edge on the
men for the evening: Patricia
Conolly’s Amanda, Judy Bar-
ren’s wicked young widow and
Beverley MacDonald’s Miss
Hoyden were things that would
tempt any young man to
matriculate.
Melbourne University’s ver-
sion of “The Philadelphia Story,”
produced by Gordon Kirby,
was even better —a polished, able
performance, with Bette Guenzl
giving a professional glint to the
role of Tracy Lord, the mettle-
some and snobbish divorcee who
is humanised on the eve of her
remarriage by the attentions of
her ex-husband (Philip Sargent)
and a cynical reporter (John
Starey).
Sydney opened the festival
and Melbourne closed it; what
went between was not so good'.
Tasmania brought up an intelli-
gent rendering of O’Neill’s
“Anna Christie,” but, after all,
it is, in its story of a prostitute
who finds redemption in true
love, a rather sentimental melo-
drama ; the Tasmanians could
have done something original by
playing it for what it really is—
a stillborn comedy, the story of
a great Irish sailor who, after
roaring his way around half the
ports in the world, comes home
with the dream of settling down
with something sweet and vir-
ginal, decides that he’s found
her in Anna, and then, when he
discovers the truth, makes a
wonderful compromise with his
conscience.
Adelaide University presented
Andrew Rosenthal’s “The Third
Person,” a post-war piece about
the relations between an Ameri-
can ex-soldier, his wife and an
old Army acquaintance. It is
more mood than story, with
overtones of perversion, and the
Adelaide players made a sensi-
tive, if not altogether successful,
approach to it.
Queensland contributed
“The Typewriter” Jean
Cocteau’s adroit and .verbose
decorations to the mystery of
scurrilous anonymous letters in
a French village—and, what with
some declamatory passages from
the prompter, with sound-effects
like a train going over the Bridge,
and with the cast handling the
dialogue as though they were
bartering cabbages for pumpkins,
they made a jolly fine hash of the
whole thing. Even George
Grid land, who, as the detective,
showed some assurance early in
the piece, appeared badly shaken
before it was all over.
The New Englanders took a
fly at Christopher Fry’s transla-
tion of Anouilh’s “Ring Around
the Moon” and never got off
the ground with it, and Western
Australia essayed a double bill
of Strindberg’s “Miss Julie” and
Fry’s “A Phoenix Too Frequent.”
The intentions behind the “Miss
Julie” were sound enough, but
they didn’t come off —Joan Gray
made only a bewildered, bad-
tempered girl of the main role,
instead of the taut, neurotic
aristocrat, and Brian Pope’s
butler was devoid of the subtle,
sliding shifts of mood ; of ambi-
tion ; of cruelty; and of the
essential appeal that overlays the
character.
Fry’s verse comedy of the
Roman matron whose deter-
mination to die by the coffin of
her husband changes to the
ambition to live with the soldier
who comes to the tomb to eat
his supper was quite lost on
Shirley Trew and John Taylor.
Without its sparkle, without its
lightness, it became something as
coarse as Balzac and nowhere
near as funny.
Artbursts
Indian Painting
Warren Hastings, who was
charged with hiring-out British
troops to exterminate the Rohil-
las, robbing the Begums of
Oudh, getting rid of Nuncomar
by judicial murder and other
proceedings highly unusual for
a Governor-General, was subse-
quently acquitted and given a
pension by his employers and
died in his spacious home at
Daylesford, Gloucestershire.
He also apparently was a
patron of the arts, and filled his
mansion with magnificent trea-
sures, ivory furniture and splen-
did decorations, some of which
have found their way by a devi-
ous route to George’s Gallery,
Melbourne. George Sandwich,
whose great-great-grandfather
was an East India barrister in
Bombay during Hastings’s
regime, was billeted at Dayles-
ford House during the late war,
and acquired the great Viceroy’s
collection of Madrasi paintings
and brought them to Australia.
The exhibition was opened by
Mrs. R. G. Casey, who was once
Vicereine in the same parts.
The pictures belong to a most
interesting class. Photography
not having been invented and
highly placed Europeans wanting
a record of their Indian sojourn,
they commissioned Indian artists
to make sketches of Indian life
and customs to take back to
Europe. These artists were
simple craftsmen squatting in
the bazaar, and, in the tradi-
tional manner, they did naint
the life around them.
They painted male and female
figures of certain trades and
castes stiffly standing looking at
one another, like gods and god-
desses in a fresco. They painted
delicately in gouache and
tempera, embellished with gold-
and silver-leaf or -powder, and
though the form is quaint and
unreal, there is a quality in the
execution which links the pic-
tures up with the great Indian
tradition.
It may be observed that,
though the Madrasi women
haven’t changed in the 200 years
since those days, the Madrasi
men have taken to billycock hats
and trousers.
Talkies
“Edward and Caroline”
This French piece shares the
screen at the Australia, Mel-
bourne, with “The Dark Past,”
an American picture. They are
both good, though entirely dif-
ferent. The French film is light
but true observation ; the other
is applied Freud and very
sombre.
In the American piece, a
young man expresses himself in
thuggery and murder and is
dogged by a frightful nightmare.
A psychoanalyst analyses his
dream and shows him that in
every man he kills he is only
murdering a symbol for his
father, and he loses all appetite
for murder.
The young man in the French
film expresses himself in music
and his young wife expresses
herself mainly in nagging at him
and in expensive dresses.
A crisis arrives when his wife
decides to leave him on the
eve of a performance he is giving
before the best society in Paris.
He is full of despair, but plays
divinely, and lands a contract
for a concert. The handsome
but ordinary young man who is
intent on pinching his pretty
missus finds that her eyes are
now turned in the direction of
the successful young musician.
That is all, but it is extremely
well done and Daniel Gelin and
Anne Vernon act with that deli-
cate finesse which is characteris-
tic of most French acting.
*t* ❖ <£♦
“Heidi”
Johanna Spyri’s story of a
Swiss girl who is condemned to
leave her mountains and her
grandfather and live in a rich
household in Frankfort is told
with sensitiveness, understanding
and a nice balance between
humor and pathos. It also has
the advantages of some very
natural acting, magnificent Swiss
alpine scenery and charming
incidental music. At Sydney
Esquire.
• • • •
“Sabaka” (Sydney Esquire):
Melodramatic story of a fire-
worshipping terrorist sect, but
rich with pageantry, ceremonial
rites and jungle-life of India.
“Lucky Me” (Sydney Regent):
Above-average musical with
spontaneous comedy from Phil
Silvers, Eddie Foy, Jnr. and
Nancy Walker, some lilting
numbers and a story which bucks
musicomedy tradition by not
developing pernicious anaemia.
Neat dancing by Doris Day, with
Robert Cummings doing smooth
work in both comedy and
romance.


ah there, Pythaqoras
by B.a. Rer
LES RAWLINGS walked
down the street as quickly
as the long, narrow tool-
box he carried on his left
shoulder would permit. He was
nervous, very much so. Four
years was a long time to be away
from a trade, even if a fellow had
been a fully fledged carpenter.
But when he’d been assessed as
only eighty per cent.! Then,
too, best part of that experience
had been in the joiner’s shop;
things would be altogether dif-
ferent on an outside job.
He was a trainee-carpenter,
possibly the last representative
of the Army-rehabilitation
scheme; he had done the six-
months’ course in the tech, and
gone on to secure eighty per cent,
proficiency in a joinery-shop
when a motorbike accident made
it look as though he would never
work again. But now he was
right up to the knocker. The
repat. was allowing him to com-
plete the subsidised course, and
at full wages.
He turned a corner and the
job was in sight. A man was
working—mixing mortar. He
started. Lord, not late the first
day! Quickly he raised his right
wrist and looked at the watch on
it. Twenty-past seven. Ten
minutes to go, yet. That chap
must have started work early.
Come to think of it, didn’t
brickies’ laborers start early on
some jobs so’s to have mortar
ready for the brickies at starting-
time? It seemed he had heard
that somewhere.
He changed the toolbox to
his right shoulder, walked seven
or eight steps, then changed it
back. That was another thing;
being lefthanded was a dis-
advantage—made a man look as
if he was doing everything the
clumsy way. Old Johnno, the
foreman in the joinery-shop, had
never been able to you
could be doing the job the right
way even if you were doing it
kacky-handed.
He wondered what these
fellows would be like to work
with. Would they come at those
silly jokes they put over on
young apprentices—sending ’em
for a long weight or a ladder to
put up some skirting?
Three men standing outside
an unpainted wooden shed
watched him approach. Les
Rawlings told himself he was
their equal; he was a man,
twenty-eight years of age. Yet
he could not dismiss the feeling
that he was like a boy—a very
small boy, starting at a new
school.
He was close enough to speak,
now.
“How y’ going?” His voice
didn’t sound casual, nonchalant,
the way he had intended it;
instead it sounded hurried,
unnatural.
“Not bad, mate. Duck in here
to get changed. You’ll see a few
nails along the top-plate there
you can hang your clothes on.”
Rawlings felt an instant warm-
ing to this pleasant-looking chap.
A carpenter, evidently—he was
wearing a carpenters' nailbag on
a belt around his waist. If a
fellow could get with him it
might be all right—he didn’t
seem the sort of bloke who’d try
to make a goat of anyone.
He came out of the shed feel-
ing much the same as he had
felt the night he competed in the
lightweight division of the
battalion tournament. Then, as
now, he hadn’t really been
frightened—he knew he would
go through with it no matter
what happened—but nervousness
was another matter.
A STOUT, elderly man wearing
glasses and a carpenters’
apron came towards him. He
did not know it, but he had
made a slightly favorable
impression on Old Sam.
Joiners, or carpenters working
“on the bench,” invariably wear
aprons; on outside jobs, how-
ever, the trend is to wear over-
alls and separate nailbag, as being
less likely to handicap the wearer
when straddling rafters or joists.
But some old hands still stick to
the traditional apron,
Rawlings was wearing an
apron. In the joinery-shop
everybody had worn an apron.
The introductions were brief.
A nod, a grin, a “How are you,
mate?” covered all the form-
alities. To his disappointment
Rawlings was put with Jonesy.
Strangely, in a sphere where
everybody had a Christian-name
and no other, the tall gangling
fellow was never called anything
else but his surname —plus the
additional syllable. Obviously
he saw nothing objectionable
in it.
To Les Rawlings that morn-
ing was the longest he had ever
known. It seemed that nothing
he did went right. Everything
was so different from the joiners’-
shop. For instance, nailing hard-
wood joists. There was no nail-
ing hardwood in the joiners’-
shop.
It looked so terribly
amateurish to bend nails over,
and yet, time after time they
bent, and, with burning ears, he
would break the nail off or try
to straighten it up—only to have
the same thing happen again.
Then Jonesy would chuckle and
his lip would curl up at the
corner.
Rawlings was a rather lean-
faced young man with grey-blue
eyes. Fair-haired and fresh-
complexioned, he belonged to
the type that flush readily. In
spite of his endeavors to appear
unconcerned he could not stifle
this outward sign of his acute
embarrassment. He began to
dislike Jonesy.
The others were sitting down
for lunch by the time Rawlings
had got his billy ready, and
helped himself from the
kerosene-tin of water which still
bubbled on the brick-encom-
passed fire. As he walked
towards the group he saw Jonesy
look up and say something. He
thought the others laughed. The
flush came up to his face again.
However, no remarks were
thrown to or about him when
he sat down.
Conversation started and
casually drifted around a variety
of subjects. Now and then he
put in a sentence, and by its
acceptance he was apparently
regarded as one of the mob.
Yet the feeling persisted that
Jonesy had told them all he was
a bunny—a no-hoper who
couldn’t drive a nail into hard-
wood. The thought rankled.
“Like to look at the paper?
Not that there’s much in it.”
Rawlings accepted the news-
paper with thanks. This Roy
Wattley did seem a decent joker.
Halfheartedly reading the
inanities of the letter-column,
while vaguely listening to the
conversation, Rawlings caught a
scrap that brought him to the
alert. Somebody had mentioned
the steel-square. Now he was all
attention. He might be only a
trainee who had reached his
eighty per cent, in the joiners’-
shop, and couldn’t drive a nail
into hardwood, but he did know
a bit about the steel-square.
TONESY was holding forth on
" the subject to the brickies ;
he seemed to be trying to
convince them that the steel-
square was some mystic contriv-
ance about three times more
complicated than the slide-rule.
With a sense of confidence
and mild exultation at being able
to meet Jonesy on equal terms —
or better—Rawlings chipped in
quietly:
“But after all, using the steel-
square is only a matter of
commonsense, isn’t it —if you’ve
been taught the principles of it
by a good teacher?”
Jonesy stiffened. He was
annoyed. Rawlings found him-
self gloating over it.
“So you reckon you know a
bit about the steel-square, eh?”
“We had a fair bit of it at the
tech. Our teacher used to show
us the plan of a cottage, and
we’d have to set out the roof-
cuts and make a scale-model with
all the rafters, hips, valleys and
purlins fixed.”
“All square jobs, though, I
bet.” There was disparagement
in the tone.
“No; not always square.
Sometimes, rectangular or L-
shaped—depended on the plan.”
“I don’t mean that kind of
square. I mean, a job that hasn’t
got square corners would toss
you—an octagon, f’rinstance.”
“We did octagons,” Rawlings
said quietly. “They’re easy
enough.” Out of the corner of
his eye he saw that the whole
gang was listening now. He was
self-conscious, but pleasantly
aware that his prestige was leap-
ing upwards from the bad begin-
ning he had made.
“You get the hip-cut by put-
ting thirteen instead of seventeen
on the blade of your square.”
“Is that a fact?” Roy Wattley
was regarding him with obvious
interest. “Y* know, I didn’t
know that.”
Rawlings felt his face flushing
again. A thought struck him.
Perhaps it had sounded like
skite! He went on quickly: “I
don’t know much about it,
really; our teacher explained it
this way: On a ninety-degree job
you put seventeen on the blade
because the diagonal of a twelve-
inch square is seventeen; on an
octagonal corner the diagonal is
thirteen.”
Wattley was nodding his head
thoughtfully, apparently assimi-
lating the information. As a
further attempt to dispel any
appearance of boastfulness
Rawlings repeated; “I don’t
know much about it, but that’s
what our teacher told us. He was
a wizard on the steel-square.”
“Could he work out his wages
on it?” Big Bob, the brickie,
asked, a wicked grin on his face.
Rawlings heard the chuckles,
and wondered where the joke
came in.
“I tell you he done it —I seen
him!” Jonesy’s lip curled high
at the corner, remained
stationary a moment, then
twisted into writhing action
again. “He was a marvel with
figures, that bloke I was telling
you about; do anything with
’em—even without the square.
I tell you what he could do:
give him the span of a Job, tell
him the pitch of the roof, and
he’d work out the length of the
common rafter —to a sixteenth of
an inch! ”
“In his head?” marvelled
Rawlings,
“Aw, not in his head. Gor’
strike me; break it down!”
“Not in his head? Well,
there’s nothing so extra clever
in that! We used to do it at the
tech. It’s just finding the length
of the- hypotenuse of a right-
angled triangle ; the rafter is the
hypotenuse.”
“The high-what?” Big Bob
was loolpng at him in grinning
amazement.
Suddenly Rawlings felt
extremely foolish. “The
hypotenuse,” he grinned sheep-
ishly. “It’s only Pythagoras’s
theorem, after all.”
“Whose?”
“I’ll have ten-bob each way on
that Pie-agates-head.”
Tom Riley, the leading-hand
brickie, grinned, his dark, sun-
scorched face creasing-up like
weather-wrinkled leather,
Rawlings looked around in
bewilderment. “B-but you use
Pythagoras’s theorem in the
trade, don’t you?” he asked.
Then, seeing no assent in the
amused faces, he went on
quickly: “Our teacher told us
it had been used in the building-
trade for centuries, and always
would be used while”
“Well, I’ve been in the game
for forty-six years,” Old Sam
drawled with semi-humorous
ponderousness, “and I’ve never
even heard of Pie-whatsername’s
whosit.”
Abruptly his tone changed ; it
became patronisingly serious:
“Look, son, you want to
forget half that bunkum they
taught you at tech. Theories are
all right for blokes who only
talk about things; but when
you come to do a job you’ve
got to be a practical man—that’s
what bosses pay for: results.
Things done —not talked about.”
Rawlings felt his ears burn-
ing like fires. He was humiliated
and bewildered. Two minutes
ago he was enjoying the respect
of these fully qualified trades-
men.' Now they were laughing
at him. And the boss had as
good as told him he’d have to
start back from taws —all the
knowledge that he had so pains-
takingly swotted up was useless
when it came to practice. His
sense of values had been thrown
into chaos, and an idol had been
sent crashing from its pedestal.
Alec Teesley—the teacher who
had known without hesitation
the answer to every question
asked of him, who had been a
wizard at calcs, whose know-
ledge of trade-drawing and
geometry had been absolutely
incredible, who had been able to
pick up any tool and demonstrate
with it in a way that made the
job look ridiculously easy—good
old Alec was just a theorist.
These tradesmen and they
could be taken as the average
cross-section of the building-
trade —had never even heard of
Pythagoras’s theorem.
"RAWLINGS raised the paper
and pretended to read it. It
was pure pretence. Again and
again he read the same line, and
still it did not make any sense
at all.
A man was a fool to have
thought he could take up the
threads where he’d left off, any-
way. It would have been wiser
to stay in the factory—especially
now that his arm was a hundred
per cent, again. There would
have been opportunities for
advancement there, if a fellow
had set his mind to it; if he
hadn’t been so struck on the
carpentering game ; if he hadn’t
kept revising all the notes in his
theory book, studying up his
textbooks, going over the draw-
ings he’d done during that six-
months’ course.
And now ... Old Sam’s words
kept running through his head
like a cracked gramophone-
record: “You want to forget
half that bunkum they taught
you at tech. Bosses pay for
results.”
It seemed an incredibly long
threequarters of an hour for
lunch. Yet he was not looking
forward to another session with
Jonesy—and the hardwood. Out
of the corner of his eye he saw
that Roy Wattley was talking
quietly to Old Sam, and once he
thought Roy said something
about taking a while to get used
to a different class of work.
Rawlings stood up when Old
Sam stiffly climbed to his feet.
He was about to return to his
job when the foreman stopped
him.
“Listen, Les, you can go with
Roy this afternoon; there’s a
few door-frames to make. Roy’U
show you what’s wanted.” The
tone was quiet, almost kindly.
Door-frames joinery! At
least he wouldn’t make a fool of
himself on them .
Covertly Rawlings watched
Wattley work. The man did not
bustle, neither did he waste time
—nor movements. His actions
were smooth and free; and his
work was beautiful: joints
perfect, shoulders flush, sizes
exact, and the whole job smooth
enough to be polished. A
splendid tradesman and genial,
co-operative chap to work with.
Before the afternoon was half-
way through, Rawlings felt that
he had known Wattley for years;
he could have been very happy—
except for that nagging
thought ...
Just before knock-off time it
came out.
“Er, Roy, I’ve been thinking
over what Old Sam said ... Do
you reckon it’s right, about


The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor cctn afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper 00. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
Ck
Pi
7?
u
t 4
wm
Itkiin
ms
>
:■
s.
*
Hi
m
p
ntlfllllllll
s
A
35-
r
m
a
Happy WUdc/dncj
. . starts with
Atlantic Products
That’s because they’re teamed together
to give you every ounce of power available,
to prevent breakdowns, and to keep engines
young. Get all your maintenance from your
Atlantic Station. Use the Atlantic Stopwear
Lubrication system it’s based on pure
paraffin-base Atlantic Motor Oil, always on
its metal with a smooth, wear-defying film.
Go Atlantic and
Stay Atlantic for ..
theory being all bunkum when
you’re out on the job?”
Wattley paused with the honed
plane-iron in his hand.
Mechanically he licked the hairs
on the back of his left forearm
and tested the blade’s keenness
by shaving them off.
“I can only tell you this,” he
said. “I’ve managed without it
all my life —I’ve had to ; there
wasn’t a tech, within two-
hundred miles of the place where
I served my time. But I once
missed a good job because I
couldn’t answer one theory
question.”
He hesitated, then went on:
“I haven’t told many people this ;
but just after the war, when they
started the Commonwealth
Reconstruction Training Scheme,
the tech, people advertised for
men capable of teaching carpen-
tering. A mate of mine was
already teaching engineering and
he wanted me to apply. I told
him it was useless —they’d toss
me with the first theory ques-
tion. He wouldn’t have it. ‘No,’
he said. ‘A practical man won’t
give a stupid answer. You’re the
kind of man they want. Have a
go—you’ve got nothing to lose! ’
“Anyhow, I did. They sent
for me, and I had to be inter-
viewed by a sort of committee.
“The first four or five ques-
tions they shot at me were good,
practical ones; no trouble at all.
Then one fellow pushed a paper
and pencil in front of me and
saidr
“ ‘The span of a roof is twenty-
eight feet, the pitch seven inches
to the foot. Work out the length
of the common rafter from
bird’s-mouth to ridge.’
“On the job I could have done
it three ways: By laying out the
timber on the ground, reading
the steel-square, or drawing the
roof to scale. But I just didn t
have a clue about how to work
it out by calculations.” He
paused, grinned lugubriously,
then added: “So I didn’t get the
job.”
“But it was so simple!”
Rawlings exclaimed impulsively.
“The sum of the base squared
and the side squared equal the
square of the hypotenuse, in a
right-angled triangle. That’s
only Pythag” he broke off,
the color rising in his face.
“I suppose, if I’d gone to tech.
I would have known,” Wattley
said quietly. “But to be quite
honest I’d never heard of Py-
whatsername till you mentioned
it at dinnertime.”
“Nobody seemed to have,”
Rawlings said miserably. “And
yet, I thought”
He did not finish the sentence.
A[OW that he was working at
the trade again Rawlings
could have enrolled for a follow-
on course at the tech. He t did
not. Somehow all the interest
had gone.
He worked with Roy Wattley
for a week, really liking it. Even
nailing hardwood was easier
now, since Roy had given him
that ridiculously simple but
amazingly effective advice. Who
would have believed that rub-
bing the point of a nail in your
hair would grease it enough to
make it drive? . And that was
only one of the wrinkles Roy
had shown him.
Then, too, he liked Roy. In
many ways he reminded him of
Alec Teesley, Not that they
were alike —Roy was dark, Alec
was fair —it was in their sincerity,
their straightforwardness; their
“fair-dinkumness” in their work
and attitude to the people around
them.
Just after lunch on Monday
Old Sam told Wattley: “Roy, I
want you to put in the level
pegs for the concrete foundation
on the new job. Les can help
you —it’ll be experience for him.”
Les Rawlings was pleased.
Old Sam had a lot of decent
points when you got to know
him. He joined Roy eagerly.
How long the architect and
clerk-of-works had been standing
there watching, neither Rawlings
nor Wattley knew. It was the
architect’s comment that had
caused them to look up.
“The job doesn’t look square
to me. What do you think?”
“It may be an illusion, of
course,” the short, stout man
answered. “But that side-line
certainly does appear to be cut-
ting away to the right.”
“That’s the way it looks to me.
We’ll bring the foreman down.”
Wattley watched the two men
walk up the hill towards the
other job, then turned to Raw-
lings. “It’s Old Sam’s blue if the
lines are wrong,” he said quietly.
“He set the job out. I hope he
hasn’t made a mistake.” He
stepped out of the trench and
walked to the spot where the two
had been standing.
“That corner does look out of
square,” he conceded. “But that
old fence has a kink in it and
things like that can deceive your
eye.”
Old Sam came bustling up. He
strode to the peg-profiles and
checked that the lines were
attached to the correct nails.
“That should be right,” he
said.
“Yes, possibly it is,” agreed the
architect quietly. “But just as
a precaution I’d like you to check
that corner, A stitch in time,
you know.” He smiled, and
suddenly his lean, ageing face
lost its austere, rather forbidding
appearance.
“Yes, all right, Mr. Austin, I’ll
do that.
“Les, duck up to the other job
and bring down the big wooden
square, will you?”
“I’d prefer you to square it in
with the steel tape.” Austin’s
thin lips twitched in the sus-
picion of a bantering grin.
“Builders’-squares have a habit
of getting knocked out of true
in their travels. You may use
my tape ; it will save you sending
up for yours.”
TNTENSELY interested, Raw-
lings watched the procedure.
Two straight pieces of four-by-
two were packed up on bricks
until they lay as a right-angle,
their outside edges clearing their
corresponding lines by the barest
fraction of daylight.
With the architect watching
closely Old Sam made a pencil-
mark on one piece of timber at
exactly eight feet from the
corner; the other he marked at
six feet.
Wattley held the end of the
tape on the eight-feet mark while
Old Sam took the tape across
the angle and held it on the six
feet.
“Look at that,” he said with
quiet triumph. “Ten feet
exactly.”
Austin bent forward, then
straightened up. He was smiling
in mock humiliation.
“Well, I can’t argue with
Pythagoras, can I?” he said.
Old Sam jerked upright; his
mouth hung open. He looked
startled, bewildered. Roy
Wattley, too, was staring.
The architect chuckled as he
turned away.
“I’m afraid you got a bit too
academic for our friends,” com-
mented his colleague dryly.
“Strange, isn’t it?” remarked
the architect, in the manner of
architects and doctors, who
appear to forget that the subjects
of their conversation can hear
what is said. “I don’t suppose
there is a tradesman in the
building-trade who doesn’t use
the six-eight-and-ten method of
squaring-in a corner, yet it would
be safe to bet that not one in a
hundred knows that he is apply-
ing Pythagoras’s theorem.”
Les Rawlings was standing as
though frozen, the disbelief in
his eyes gradually changing to
an expression of overwhelming
exultation. His lips moved in
silent summing-up. Six-eight-
and-ten —multiples of three-four-
and-five. The base squared plus
the side squared equals the
hypotenuse squared. Pytha-
goras’s theorem!”
“I don’t suppose there is a
tradesman in the building-trade
who doesn’t use the six-eight-
and-ten method of squaring-in a
corner ...”
He wondered whether there
was still time to enrol at the
tech, for the present term.


House Girl
by Hal Porter
AT NIGHT, Tokyo, like all
twentieth-century Baby-
lons, can be seen in the
sky. The city’s daytime
monotone Gippsland-cowshed-
grey—has disintegrated to dazzles
and blazing bars of frost and
salmon, of saffron. Cape-weed,
aquamarine, fuchsia and Mars-
orange : colors to lure, to
exaggerate, to obscure wattle-
and-daub makeshift and spangle
the stench rising to the God of
Poverty.
Netted miles of neons and
fluorescents, hundreds of paper
lanterns gross as niners, thous-
ands of naphtha-flares, millions
of sizzling bare bulbs dangling
offhandedly on dangerous flex —
the night-air itself sucks up these
cheap glories and digests them
to an achromatic reflection, a
phosphorescent flow in the upper
dark, which can be seen for
miles. It is then that the restless
young, fed-up with the lightless
village street, rebellious as they
stumble alone along the shrine-
tracks or through the camellia-
groves, imagine under this
distant siren halo a city like a
vast opal, smouldering with fan-
tastic life and semi-translucent,
and yearn to walk by its
luminous walls behind which
pulse the shapes of lust and
excitement,- the radium-gestures
of all ecstasy and the future.
Suggestive airs tug in from
deserts and China, from the
North Pole, the Equator, from
the Pacific and America, and
stirring through the vision-
sieved minds of youth, say
“Come!” One by one the
bravest of them, freed by their
own defiance, or by domestic
calamity or necessity, break the
age-old village umbilicus, wrap
all they possess in a square yard
of colored cloth, take a hard-
boiled egg and some persim-
mons, and wait blank-faced by
the bridge.
Jizo-san, the children’s god
with a dozen disease-speckled
bibs about his plump stone neck,
waits there too, as he has for
centuries —his time-worn eyes
are the only ones to see their
departure. The sun is low,
shines horizontally through the
upreared and tattered lotus
leaves, through the wing of a
heron hoisting itself from an
irrigation-channel. Casting a
long warning shadow the bus
draws near.
And so, in time, in the early
morning, they arrive on the rim
of Tokyo, third-largest city in
the world. Once it was called
Edo, and the flames of its
recurring fires the Flowers of
Edo. Now the city spreads like
a weed far and flat on the plain
as though the fire-sprung pods
had sprayed seeds further and
further afield, as though earth-
quake and typhoon had rattled
and scattered the multiplying
tiled huts further yet, as though
cloudburst Allied bombs had
splashed seeds to the very limit
to infest the millet and sweet-
potato fields with ramshackle
factories, slums and suburban
labyrinths.
Here then, to the rustic young.
is Athens —or Babylon, the city
of desires, and they can descend
stiffly into it from the shabby
bus and be lost for ever, make a
fortune, commit suicide or
finish up in the fetid beggars’
subway near Ueno Park.
TT was somehow thus, orphaned
■*- in some one-pig village, too
ugly to engage the interest of
brothel-suppliers, belonging, I
suspect, to the untouchable Eta
sect, but with a thick personal
artery of will-to-live traversing
her national indifference to
death; coarse, squat and
neurotic ; that Ikuko-san came
to Tokyo and by unguessed-at
ways to me.
How near her wanderings
came to suicide or the Ueno
tunnel I do not know; fortune
to her would certainly always
be the crow flying over ; but she
was too much of the earth ever
to be lost on it. For what reason
my unforeseen arrival in Tokyo
and her movements about the
city seeking rice and pickled
radish to sustain her ugliness
should have intersected I am at
loss to say. She, even when I
aggravated her most, thanked
many of Japan’s eight million
deities.
All I know is that a distracted
mess-sergeant who had a ner-
vous breakdown some days later
was able to produce a housegirl
for me. Why and how Ikuko-
san? I should like, purely for
history’s sake, to question him.
He handed her. over with dazed
relief —the conjuror who finds in
his hand griffin instead of rabbit.
Japanese girls are plain, very
plain; she was by many points
the plainest. The sergeant
walked away like Lady Mac-
beth ; I never saw him again.
Ikuko-san and I faced each
other; she dropped a broken-
winged paper sunshade and
giggled repulsively. I picked it
up for her and a year of life
together began.
How shall I tell it?
From before six in the
morning, before the shutters of
the noodle-shops, China-shops,
curio-dealers and vegetable-
markets are down, before even
the bean-curd sellers have set out
their trays, the housegirls awake
on their threadbare rice-matting
floors and buckwheat-pillows,
rise in the double-shuttered room
among the still-sleeping others,
crawl from under the mosquito-
netting, and dress. They do this
imagining jealous liquid glances
at their American nylon
stockings, English brogues, Euro-
pean tweeds, sweaters of Scotch
wool and solid leather handbags.
They draw lips with magazine-
famous sticks, clap at the house-
god who is a mirror and give it
some rice-seeds and a little bowl
of chlorinated water, and leave
their cell as though it were
merely a dream.
They walk actressishly under
the iced-water signs, each as if
a happy secret lay in her tailored
sleeve. They ignore the house-
boys reeking of camellia hair-
oil and mincing hand-in-hand
and, proudly, handmaidens of
the Conqueror, approach the
artificial, official and hideous
luxury of the Occupation-messes
in which they work. Arrived
elegant, they strip and re-dress.
Now they wear the faded short
work-frock that reveals too
cruelly the pitiful shoulders, the
flat chest, the bandy legs
mottled like bamboo. On go
the scrubbing-brush-grey clogs
of paulownia . . .
SHE slips off her clogs in the
corridor where they have
been making a noise like a
Shetland pony, ceases to sing
loudly “Saminsen Boogie,” opens
the door with infinite care, tip-
toes in barefoot as though I am
dying, whispers :
“Will - come. Porter - san!
Wake! Wake! Sivin-oh-clock-
fifteen! ”
She smiles the pure and lovely
Japanese smile —radiant —but
that need not mean she is happy,
and sets my tomato-juice on
the bedside table. As I sip she
turns on the wireless and the
electric fan, arranges my
dressing-gown, slippers, bathing-
and shaving-gear. She does it
this morning silently, with an
inward look as though the teeth
of her mind chewed gristle. She
has a slight droop and her mouth
droops; she sighs; even her
stubby feet contrive to appear
distressed. Shall I be brisk, grab
my things and hustle out taking
no notice ... or see what it is
this time? She is doing some-
thing that seems unnecessary to
two very small dahlias, one red
for the male, one white for the
female . . . does it mean any-
thing?
“Ikuko-san! ”
She acts a faint start as though
roused from sorrow’s lethargy
and cannot quite look at me.
“Hai!” she says ; a minute
sound.
“What’s the matter?” While
waiting for her to enact reluc-
tance-to-discuss-a - certain - topic
the wireless plays “I Can’t See
You in My Eyes Any More,”
and I seem to catch my ex-
wife’s eye from the dressing-
table photograph: what was the
photographer like at whom she is
thrusting that absurdly heart-
piercing gaze which still, in times
of half-drunken nostalgia, I
imagine directed at me? And
why do I cart her about the
world and stand her up in
foreign bedrooms? Is it because
she is so beautiful and a sort of
diploma of manhood?
Ikuko-san hates her even
more than I pretend I do ; often
I fish her out of strange crannies.
So far there have been no pins
stuck in her well-covered heart.
It is time for me to speak again:
“What’s the matter, Ikuko-
san?”
“Ver-ee not happy.” Her
thick-lipped pout makes her
really hideous.
“Oh! ” I decide to go on with
it; “Why?”
“Momma-san ver-ee sick.”
I do not sidetrack by inquir-
ing into this loss of orphanship;
Momma-san occasionally makes
these Lazarus comebacks.
“I’m so sorry,” I say politely.
“Hai.” Very flat, this.
“I hope she is better soon.”
Ikuko-san mentally stamps a
foot. She flashes a venomous
ray at me from her seal-brown
eyes. Then, with a dying fall,
she accuses me: “Momma-san
ver-ee, ver-ee poor.”
Ah!
“Cocoa?” I say.
“Thank you, Porter-san.” She
is dignified, ladylike, but far
from overjoyed. But at least
I’ve started, I can feel her
intensely directing my thoughts
somewhere. However, there is,
this morning, no time for the
subtle rites of beggar’s ping-
pong.
“You tell me what you want,
Ikuko-san, and I’ll give you a
canteen-order.”
/'AF course, of course —Can-
teen Day. I have forgotten:
she is the wife who must re-
mind, on behalf of her own rake-
off if for no lesser reason.
She flashes on like a light-
house ; immediately after be-
comes serious, nervous, confused
by visions of what she might
scrounge ; hoping earnestly not
to ask one thing too many and
suffer the face-losing humilia-
tion of refusal; hoping most fer-
vently not to stop asking too
soon. She watches some section
of my face —the treacherous
corner of the mouth? —and
recites meticulously and too
loudly, a trial-and-error pause
between each item:
“Cocoa, oh, yiss . . . canned
milk . . . cak-ee . . . aspro . . .
choclit cand-ee ... Lux soap . . .
toothpast-ee .. . salt peanut. ..”
She falters, becomes pathetic
and smaller; my assistance,
assent or refusal is needed. My
expressionless face defeats her ;
moreover, a sleepless night of
preparation for this has set the
little flame of her mind flicker-
ing in exhaustion. I, too, have
been watching—a sudden illu-
mination makes me say with
despicable magnanimity “Go on.
Whatever you want; O.K. Go
on, woman.”
Woman! For the first time it
has struck me that, since I
neither love her nor sleep with
her, this necessary begging is
painful for her. Indifference
makes me careless of the un-
written rules. I see her fear and
her womanhood trying to veil
decently what life and greed
demand she must do.
Some of these delicacies may
go to her own version of a
Momma-san, to someone or
something she, in her turn, can
be magnanimous to. Some she
will sell on the blackmarket for
a present to me, some useless
atrocity costing yen that she
needs herself. Some she will
arrange with antlike precision in
one of the two drawers she has
taken over for herself —a drawer
for cosmetics and another for
supplies of food for some future
drought. Alas, that her sweet
tooth gnaws constantly at this
future.
When I first found clothes of
hers hanging beside mine in the
wardrobe I was startled, irri-
tated and had a faint feeling of
repulsion: too many years of
boarding-school, boarding-house
life had given me that careless
meticulousness that is the
bachelor’s. It was an intrusion
and suggested an intimacy. But
it was the custom. And as I
looked at the very small ex-
quisitely darned kimonos, the
couple of schoolgirlish pre-
occupation frocks in which the
dye had run like tears, and the
much finer attire that had been
wheedled from me or given in
maudlin pity or ... or affection
I think I felt moved; there was
certainly pathos and a sub-acid
note somewhere.
A LONG two unbelievably
different ways we had come
to this temporary companion-
ship—her broad feet had stepped
for a short space from the excre-
ment-mud of the ricefields into
a kind of film-setting ; those feet
would return there taking her
back to the Fox Goddess, the
moxa-burnings, the medicine of
dried snake, the endless destruc-
tive nobility of a life of poverty.
This was the one holiday be-
tween the old life and the old life
she would return to with nothing
to show except a hundred or so
English words, some Australian
slang, a taste for Aspros and
Players cigarettes, a wardrobe
that would wear to threads and
a collection of useless objects—
a pair of old nail-scissors,
shaving cream-jars, bootpolish-
fins, Bovril-bottles and old
underpants.
And, I suppose, memories of
a year or so of ~de facto
motherhood? Sisterhood? Un-
consummated wifehood? My
room, shoes, sheets, buttons-
all her special care, every day;
my hangovers, tantrums, selfish-
ness —all hers, I see her too
vividly in all sorts of situations:
rump in the air walking on her
feet and hands to polish the
floor with dark-tan shoe-polish ;
radiant and freshly shaved under
a permanento that one could
play like a xylophone; absorbed
for hours in a flower-arrange-
ment which offends the Western
eye but which one must be
gracious about; filling the ash-
trays with water ; running across
the mess-compound in the snow
—a cold-germ mask of unattrac-
tive navy-blue tied across her
mouth and nose; neatly and
slowly making herons, frogs,
little boxes out of cunningly
folded paper ; teaching me the
haunting age-old children’s song.
Ame, ame. ...
My feeling for her generally
is one of the deepest pity—an
unwise emotion at all times; be-
tween man and woman most
unwise. Yet, for all my sym-
pathy with her lot and all my
attempts to keep on emotional
no-man’s-land, there are times
when control slips, the gears
grate:
“I told you, Ikuko-san, not to
wash my towel every day.”
“Hai.”
“That’s all very well. You
said ‘Hai’; you said yes; but
you still wash. Now, listen.
Understand —no wash tower-u,
no wash tower-u ... You
know . . . ?”
“Hai.” She seems bewildered.
“Hai. No wash Porter-san
tower-u.” f
I am really irritated, almost
angry. She does not flinch out-
wardly and her face sets at zero;
her hands tremble slightly, that
is all. She goes about her tasks:
I see her hanging socks under
the gingko-tree; I see her pick-
ing cosmos in the mess-garden ;
I see her doing this and that,
but like someone reluctantly
hauled back to chores from the
grave.
TT is not until much later, that
-*■ I can bear her silent comings
and goings no more, for they
have become huge and por-
tentous ; emanations from her
distress have made her a giantess.
She is polishing one of her pre-
sents to me —an appalling cut-
glass salad-bowl the blue of a
castor-oil bottle.
“Oh, for God’s sake, Ikuko-
san . . .”
There is no need for such a
tone in my voice, but the situa-
tion has taken charge of us both
—Australian and Japanese, boss
and servant, conqueror and con-
quered, Church of England and
Shinto, man and woman. I do
not see her face, but know that
a spasm of suffering cuts across
it; quickly she wheels and with
a primitive animal movement
goes to the wardrobe and stands
behind its half-open door, her
back to me. She makes no sound,
but the sounds she wrestles with
disturb her body, making me
aware of the strength of will
which so often lends these small
bodies the semblance of a physi-
cal strength they are far from
possessing. I can see the hairless
blotched legs quiver as her toes
press into the linoleum; her
body in its scanty rotten frock
now and again shudders
violently.
I will not look. I will not be
affected. I remain sitting in the
armchair of rhubarb-red plush
and nickel like someone in Act
Two; I attempt to read off-
handedly, but find I am glaring
at the pages. The air between is
volted with misery.
Presently from the wardrobe
comes the faint rustle of a paper
handkerchief —she is crying. I
still make no move. The minutes
float out towards the walls and
o Continued on next page )


KUV mom SATEi
yttftih/
SANDERS
Correspondence,
statements.. etc.. Died In the
“Sander*" con be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY A>fD BRISBANE
Viatributinff Agent* —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
Price* and far-
ther information
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office s GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX. ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
moat of the Imperial palace out-
side which firemen in butcher-
blue Happee Coats are perform-
ing marvels at the top of tall
ladders.
Now that the first cruel
wrestling with her pain is over
she has, in the backwash of tears,
begun to listen to me not taking
notice of her. Human beings.
East or West, know a lot of
simple things about human
beings. She rustles her hand-
kerchief and again, more
loudly, and sniffs designedly. At
this stage the thing could stop ;
she has work to do and cannot
remain in the wardrobe ; yet the
simplicity of coming out neat,
without embarrassment, is be-
yond her. So:
6 6 pORTER-SAN.” Oh, a
A mere sliver of voice, the
voice of a naughty little
daughter.
“Yes.”
“You pisto?”
“No, I’m not angry.”
“True?”
“Yes, true.” Pause. A Budd-
hist priest drives the swinging log
against the temple gong. “Ikuko-
san.”
“Hai?”
“It’s all right. You toddle off
and get me some soda-water
from the bar-boy. Everything’s
0.K.”
In an instant she lands like a
grasshopper by the chair, sob-
bing noisily. It is ultimate dis-
gorgement. She grips my hand
in her work-cracked paws.
“Me not happ-ee. Me bad
girl.”
“There, there, there —every-
thing’s 0.K.”
“Me bad girl.”
“Come on, now. Wipe your
face.”
“Oh, me die . . . me die . . .”
“Ikuko - san, soda - water,
please.”
“Last night me pray for
Porter-san .. . today bad girl. . .
me died . . .”
“Soda-water, please. And you
can ask the bar-boy for a bottle
of lolly-water for yourself . . .”
’ “Hai?”
“Get some lolly-water from
Butch . . .”
“Hai!”
She is at the dressing-table;
she opens one of her drawers and
powders her face, she rakes her
hair with the brush with rusted-
wire teeth, paints her lips. She
knocks over my ex-wife’s photo-
graph, but remembers not to
stand it up. An accident? An
expression of power over the
cardboard representation of a
distant other woman? The smile
that she turns on me has the
beauty and singleness of a
child’s. Her eyes glitter with
the ebb of tears and the dark
sparkle of yet another despair
hidden within, hidden deep.
“Porter-san t”
“Hai! . . . that is, yes, Ikuko-
san.”
“Lolly-water and . . . and
“O.K. O.K. Candy, too.”
She is gone. I hear her slip
into her wooden clogs outside
the door and run. She is gone.
SHE is not anything more than
a human being, which is the
least of reasons for the dispers-
ing of pity, love, hate or toler-
ance. She is only a woman in a
dream between war and peace.
I shall never see her again,
although the fingerprints she has
left on the windows of my
memory are far clearer than
those of people I count as neces-
sary to the life I seem to live.
It would be difficult to recog-
nise her again ... the blurred
face in the group-picture of
millions, one of those forms
bowed in the stinking rice-flats,
in the bath-house queue at six-
o’clock, jammed in a bucking
tram on the Ginza, waiting with
endless patience on the bench-
less underground-railway plat-
form, walking up the steep
shrine steps past the dried-squid
sellers, crossing the muddy mid-
night road in the jeep’s head-
light with a white pinafore and
a bowl of shrimps.
Or, years hence, bowed to a
semicircle under faggots, a
towel tied over her almost hair-
less head —the old woman of
Bavarian fables, in the maple-
mountains, the pheasant-woods,
by the sandless shores where the
stakes of the oyster-gardens and
the cryptomerias of the off-shore
island shrine are as black against
the sunset as her black sleeves
in one of which the pipe is con-
cealed and the tobacco in a
Players fifty-tin which someone
she can’t quite remember used
years ago.
no fiands
by Bernard Harris
/“I S his eyes flicked across
y—J his speedo, the pilot
( I instinctively grasped at
his streamlined throttle.
For a split-second he was tensed
up, imagining himself sitting in
one of the planes of the old days,
apprehensive about his excessive
speed. Then he came to himself,
smiled, relaxed and wiped sweat
from his brow. Everything was
normal —height, 500,000 ; ground
speed, 600 knots ; course exact.
The craft had settled down
well after its launching from the
mother-plane. The speed was
actually a steady cruisjng speed
for this crate, which at a point
approaching the target would
accelerate to double that speed.
Crate was right! Just a
streamlined box packed with a
jet motor, fuel, rockets, a maze
of small, light, intricate gadgets
for guiding and navigating, and
the inevitable bomb. No arma-
ment or armor-plating. No
upholstery or excess space.
Scarcely any visible means of
support —just enough mainplane
to sustain the crate at a minimum
very little below its cruising
speed. Just a crate with a swept-
back, stick-arms and unobtrusive
feet for a tail-assembly. Fancy
trying to take it off from the
ground under its own steam!
The pilot studied the three-
dimensional, plastic dial on his
instrument-panel, showing the
track in heavy black along which
crept a bright green light as the
crate steadily ate up the distance
at the rate of more than ten miles
a minute. His eyes flickered over
his altimeter, his horizon, his
course indicator, then lingered on
his radar-screen as something
caught his eye.
The crate had everything that
opened and shut —every radio
and electronic device imaginable,
all more-or-less self-correcting
and automatic and only needing
adjustment now and then.
Straight-and-level flight, correct
altitude, constant, speed-right
course were automatically main-
tained, and divergence from them
caused by weather or anything
else instantly corrected. The
crate’s progress was as unerring
as that of a train from one
station to another. No wireless-
operator was needed, and a
navigator, with his laborious
calculating, would be totally
superfluous. Nothing but a pilot
needed—just a stooge to keep
an eye on the magic boxes.
The target was rather a teaser
~a highly strategic area pro-
tected by everything man could
devise. It would be hard to get
at, but this crate had an amazing
knack of surmounting obstacles,
and if it did not reach its objec-
tive there were others of its
kind at the very same moment
ready to move in for the kill.
Nobody cared much about one
crate being lost, or a dozen.
They were so fitted that they
could not fall into enemy hands
except as useless fragments and
they were being replaced by
mass-production. There was no
pride in a crate ; they were made
for destruction. How different it
was in the old days when flying
was done to some extent by the
seat of the pants, and navigating
was partly near-guesswork. Then
a plane was thought much of!
Then a pilot would do anything
to save his plane, as a captain
would to save his ship.
THE green light was slowly
approaching a yellow dot on
the track where the simple turn
of a knob would put the crate's
nose down and simultaneously
fire rockets which would pep up
the ground speed almost instan-
taneously to 1200 knots. The
pilot sat forward watching and
waiting for that precise second.
That would begin the long,
furious, preliminary dive on to
the target —a headlong dash of
400 miles at two degrees to the
horizontal —a dash through air
filled with hurtling missiles seek-
ing the crate’s destruction.
What a mercy it was that no
wop or navigator need be carried
in the crate! What horror to
send such men to almost certain _
death. In the old days the pilot
had always carried a navigator.
He had flown many types of
screw- and jet-bombers and
fighter-bombers some with
wops, but always with a navi-
gator. And, at this approach
towards the run in to the target,
he had always been filled with
misgiving about his navigator.
It was all right for the pilot.
He had weighed all the possi-
bilities, and had in time become
callous about fighter- and
ground-opposition. But it was
different about the man you
were taking with you —a young
starry-eyed fellow, perhaps,
whom one error on your part
could plunge to violent death.
He, too, might be alive to and
unmoved by the danger, but that
did not still the pilot’s worry on
his behalf.
Yet in all his operations the
pilot had lost only one navigator,
and that not in action at all.
He had lost a motor a hundred
miles out at sea, and, because
she was not behaving kindly, he
made for the nearest town where
he prepared to make an
emergency landing on a park,
only to realise when he was
approaching that boys were play-
ing football in his very landing-
path.
He pulled over the game, but
was so low and so committed to
a landing that he hadn’t the
power to recover, so decided to
put down in a scrubby paddock
straight ahead. He touched
down well, and ran through the
low scrub, twigs tearing at his
metal wings and fuselage. He
pulled up with his plane
undamaged except for scratches
to the paintwork, and heard one
of his wags say over the inter-
com., “That was a picnic. Now,
how do we get out of here?”
Then he turned round smiling
to his navigator seated beside
him, and was horrified by the
spectacle of the young fellow’s
dead body transfixed through the
chest by that million-to-one
chance in such circumstances —
a larger branch which had been
snapped off dagger-sharp by its
bursting through the perspex.
That tragic end to a semi-comic
performance had perhaps begun
his worries about his navigators ;
and, indeed, he had never
succeeded in forgetting that
terrible spectacle of the dead
boy.
GREEN light touched yellow
dot. Instantly the pilot
turned a knob, and a moment
later saw the instruments simul-
taneously register the rockets’
discharge and the headlong rush
through the sound-barrier. Then,
as the crate settled down to its
steady 1200 knots, he felt tension
mounting in him.
Except for the moments when
memories had assailed him, he
had been easy and relaxed dur-
ing the previous part of the flight.
Now the crate had less than
twenty minutes to travel, and
soon the trying moments of
avoiding contact with defending
missiles would begin. He keyed
himself up and watched his
instrument-panel eagerly. The
crate rode smoothly, every
ingenious square inch of its skin
making for ease and stability in
the furious plunge.
The pilot fidgeted himself
into comfort in his seat and
nervously adjusted his glasses.
Then, as from the blue, on to his
defence-screen crept the tell-tale
track of the first attacking
missile, he swiftly threw over his
Evasive Action switch. He
quickly checked the speed of the
attack —2000 knots —and, every
shred of his instinct of preserva-
tion alive, tensely watched the
grim game. The green dot
veered off track towards its
attacker which, on account of
its terrific speed, showed diffi-
culty in turning and badly over-
shot the target. The attack
missile finally turned about, but
had to keep turning, because
the green dot kept veering in
towards it.
Another track entered the
arena, and immediately the pilot
threw his Escape Rocket I switch
and the green dot shot away at
greatly accelerated speed on to
its track again, momentarily
leaving its pursuers behind.
Other missiles came hurtling
into the fight, and the pilot could
scarcely contain a shout as two
of them dashed closely past the
green dot, and, in turning in
opposite directions, collided with
an explosion which the instru-
ments plainly recorded. The
screen was dotted with careering
projectiles madly pursuing the
crate, which by turns backed,
veered, climbed, dived and
furiously accelerated before the
impetus of an escape-rocket.
The pilot smiled grimly,
exhilarated by the chase. This
was comparatively easy.
Properly manipulated, the crate
could evade any projectile yet
invented. There was always the
chance of being hit with such
numbers of opponents, of course.
But the odds were with the crate.
NOW, fast approaching, was
the dangerous stage, the final
approach, during which the crate
must unerringly follow its track
and depend on its speed alone for
safety from the increasing
numbers of short-range missiles.
As that point came rapidly
nearer, the pilot thought of the
ugly bomb the crate carried, that
parcel of destruction which was
about to tear masses of men and
material asunder.
In the old days, he had always
thought painfully of his bombs
about to go. He had never
wholly hardened himself to the
sickening knowledge of the
terror and pain and death he was
about to cause. Perhaps that had
been one way of forgetting his
own peril. But those old bombs
had been hand-grenades com-
pared with this packet of far-
flung devastation.
As the green dot coincided
with a red dot hear the end of
his track, the pilot turned his
Attack knob, and instantly the
crate’s nose came down still
further, and the first of a series
of rockets calculated to put her
and keep her at a speed above
2000 knots showed its discharge
on the instruments.
Totally lost now in feverish
excitement, the pilot crouched
tensely over his screen, frequently
manipulating his Attack knob
and watching short-range missiles
frantically reaching out towards
the crate which dropped un-
erringly dead on track towards
its fast-approaching target.
Triumph and dread and sorrow
—a terrifying mixture of
emotions—were profusely build-
ing up in the pilot’s breast as the
operation raced towards its
climax.
Then a projectile scored a
near-miss and damaged the crate,
which began to lose impetus and
showed an inclination to wobble
off track. It was doomed, the
pilot knew ; it would not survive
the operation; and he could
scarcely forbear crying out,
“What a mercy there’s no wop,
no navigator! ” What an end
for a crew!
But he knew that he was
within an ace of success. The
crate was so near now that
nothing but a direct hit could
frustrate its purpose, for he
could manage to keep it on track
and moving quickly enough for
the necessary time. Its bomb,
whether released or not, would
explode at 1500 feet!
Another missile narrowly
missed the stricken crate. Even
in his excitement the pilot tried
to visualise the feelings of a Jap
suicide-pilot passing like this
through the fatal dive,
The next instant the screens
wen t blank, the instruments went
haywire. The atom-bomb had
exploded! The crate, together
with a large part of the target,
had disintegrated in the furious
blast of consuming fire. The
frightful broadcast of mass
death had been staged!
npHE pilot sat back, white-
A f ace d but relaxed, and looked
about him,
His mission was complete,
The operation had been
successful.
And, as he looked at the other
pilots still tensely absorbed in
their screens in other parts of
the control-room, he hardly
knew whether to feel elated or
miserable because bombing-
crates no longer carried their
pilots with them either.


An Office-boy’s Odyssey
1. —Victoria in the Old Queen’s Time
By J. E. WEBB
MY earliest recollection is
of Queen Victoria’s Jubi-
lee, the 24th of May,
1887 ; I daresay because
the occasion was, for me, associ-
ated with pain. The burgesses of
Melbourne’s St. Kilda, in which
my father kept a pub, had
arranged a celebration in their
park, and somehow in childish
play a rope was drawn sharply
across one of my wrists. The
“wound” left me with the only
scar I have. In Perth long after-
wards the severity of the medical
examination of volunteers, con-
temptuously decisive in my case,
may have spared me worse.
Victorians who were young in
the ’eighties and ’nineties, at least
those who went to State schools,
as most of us did, were brought
up to revere, almost to worship,
the old Queen. Not only was her
home life held up for example,
but every incident of her reign
was commemorated, if com-
memoration was at all possible.
Though the Crimean war de-
served to be remembered only
for the heroism of a few
thousand half-starved soldiers
and the devotion of Florence
Nightingale—by world-war
standards, it was a series of con-
fused scrimmages in which
barely 4000 Britons fell, though
besotted incapacity in high
places condemned 20,000 poor
devils to die of cholera and the
like—we were taught to regard
it as one of the greatest and most
glorious wars in history.
Memories of the sorry business
abounded. Myriads of girls were
christened “Alma,” by way of
immortalising an action during
which Lord Raglan and his staff
got themselves lost and could
have been captured had the Rus-
sians been at ail spry. Part of St.
Kilda was called Balaclava (a
designation afterwards conferred
on a Federal electorate); part of
Ballarat became Sebastopol. A
French commander whom the
French themselves have con-
ceivably forgotten had his name
given to a town, St. Arnaud. Mel-
bourne also acquired Bouverie-
and Inkerman-streets; Sydney,
Raglan- and Canrobert-streets;
and there are other topographic
examples of the current hysteria.
We boys, for our part, were
bidden to take off our hats to
Crimea veterans —there were
some about, though not as many
as veterans of the Franco-Prus-
sian War, who sang their “Watch
on the Rhine” for us on slight
provocation. And we had to learn
Tennyson’s “Charge of the Light
Brigade” by heart, and if taken
to a show were as likely as not
to hear it thunderously declaimed
by the leading man.
Moreover, those of us who
could warble a bit were often
obliged to maltreat a ditty on
the same theme conveying a
warm instruction to posterity:
. . . And let your children’s
children
Re-echo it with pride,
Lord Cardigan, the fearless . . .
In actual fact, Cardigan was a
selfish old dandy, who was hated
by the whole Brigade. He spent
most of the campaign in Bala-
clava harbor aboard his private
yacht, complete with flunkeys
and French cook, emerging
occasionally to be a pain in the
neck to his men, whose condition
was almost as miserable as that
of their horses, and in the end
to ride ahead of them and luckily
survive when a confusion of
orders sent them to their death.
But it was not for us Vic-
torians, young or old, to be
critical of England’s heroes or
England’s wars. It became us
rather, as Coleridge wrote of
an earlier generation.
To swell the war-whoop, passion-
ate for war ...
The which we pay for as a thing
to talk of,
Spectators and not combatants.
Boys and girls
And women, that would groan to
see a child
Pull off an insect’s leg, all read
of war,
The best amusement for our
morning’s meal.
We did, at any rate; nor, old
or young, would we have been
capable of giving serious atten-
tion to the poet-seer’s prophetic
lines, even if we had react
them:
Therefore, evil days
Are coming on us, O my country-
men!
And what if all-avenging Provi-
dence.
Strong and retributive, should
make us know
The meaning of our words, force
us to feel
The desolation and the agony
Of our fierce doings?
In Victoria, as I well remem-
ber, the spirit of delight and
pride in England’s wars sur-
vived even the Jameson Raid,
that criminal fiasco which, justi-
fied as it was by Alfred Austin in
the vilest doggerel ever perpe-
trated by a Poet Laureate (“I
would rather have had that foray
Than the riches of all the
Rand! ”), dealt a serious blow to
England’s great international
reputation for justice and fair-
dealing. It survived, too, the Boer
War, albeit the effect of that raid
and that war was to bring in the
alliances with Japan and France,
of which the less said the better,
and convince the German mili-
tarists that England could not
intervene soon enough and with
sufficient force to prevent the
overrunning of France.
A major tragedy of Victoria’s
reign of which we learned noth-
ing in our history-lessons was
the Irish famine of 1846-7. In
the famine and the accompany-
ing and ensuing epidemics a
large part of the population of
eight million perished, and such
of the survivors as reached the
United States, Canada and Aus-
tralia (many breathed their last
in Atlantic coffin-ships) carried
with them a bitter hatred of Eng-
land which has had political con-
sequences to this day. Consider,
for one thing, McCormick and
his anti-British outbursts.
My father, though no fugitive
from the famine nor even a
Home Ruler, was a Sligo man —
ray mother was from Cornwall,
near England, as the Cornish in-
sisted. Along with his parents,
five brothers and four sisters (one
was an Alma), Dad came to Vic-
toria in a sailing-ship and found
it to his liking ; they all did. I
myself discovered that Victoria
was a good country to grow
up in when I reached an age to
appreciate it.
Though wages were low, there
were few unemployed and food
and rent were cheap. Schooling
might be indifferent (I suspect it
was), and transport primitive;
but we had capital newspapers,
the “Age” (“100,000”), the
“Argus,” the “Herald” and the
“Australasian,” and first - class
entertainment in the theatre and
music-hall, thanks to J. C. Wil-
liamson and Harry Rickards,
who were ahead of their time.
For “straight” music we had
Melba—at least sometimes—and
Ada Crossley ; Percy Grainger
and Marshall Hall’s orchestra.
But sport was our ruling pas-
sion ; cricket, football, racing
and boxing in that order—lawn-
tennis we dismissed as a sissies’
game, I saw all the remembered
Australian cricketers of the
’eighties and ’nineties, Spofforth
excepted (he had gone to live in
England); saw also their most
formidable opponent, W. G.
Grace: an immense middle-aged
man with a black beard. In fancy
I can still hear the roar that went
up from the Melbourne crowd
when Bob McLeod bowled him.
And it was the classic age of
Australian pugilism ; we had
men in at least four divisions
who could whip anyone their
weight in the world, already
The writer of these articles,
John E. Webb, was editor of
The Bulletin from 1933 until
1948.
familiar with the achievements
of Fitzsimmons, Jim Hall,
Billy Murphy and “Griffo,”
cleverest of all. I devoured
accounts of the great fight be-
tween Peter Jackson and Paddy
Slavin, each of whom had been
dodged by John L. Sullivan, at
the National Sporting Club,
London.
Yes ; a pleasant life for a boy
a bit on the precocious side,
assured, it seemed, of three good
meals, a comfortable bed, con-
genial companions and plenty of
time for play. But “evil days”
were “coming on us” ; and they
came suddenly. The land boom
burst, nearly all the banks went
bung ; my father died, and I had
to leave school and look for a
ioiu .
+ 4-
(2)
FINDING a job in that first
and worst depression
(worst because it lasted
longest) was hard for man
and boy ; there were hundreds
of applicants for every vacancy.
In most cases influence was
necessary ; and for the only time
I can remember it was placed at
my service. My father had
bought his draught beer from the
Carlton, and several members
of his family were shareholders
in that concern. Without needing
to offer my inexperience to the
brewery I was appointed one of
its office-boys at seven shillings a
week.
But I drew that princely pay
(two-bob more than the standard
office-boy’s salary) for a mere
three months, and another “tem-
porary” was waiting when I left,
I have a lingering suspicion that
the brewery had devised this in-
expensive method of obliging
shareholders and customers with
urchins on their hands, and that
I was merely the first of a long
line.
Crimean-war echoes still pur-
suing me, I had gone to live in
the Carlton street named after
Major-General Bouverie. I trust
he never saw it, for it was then,
at least, the grimiest thorough-
fare in a grimy neighborhood ;
dreadfully different from St.
Kilda, with its beach, its cricket-
ground, its charming home gar-
dens and tree-lined streets. There
were no trees or gardens in
Bouverie-street; bottles were the
only decoration and it swarmed
with rats.
Here I spent a weary time,
scared almost out of my wits
when larrikin “pushes” were on
the prowl, as they often were.
Actually, most of the slum-
dwellers in that quarter were
decent people whose poverty was
their only crime, but there were
others of both sexes who were
bad beyond redemption. Their
evil faces and imprecations
horrified and sometimes terrified
me.
Hope returned when, having
answered an “Age” advertise-
ment, I was sent for by a Mr.
Steele, Melbourne manager for
the Ward*, Lock publishing firm.
After eyeing me rather
dubiously, he engaged me as
office-boy and juvenile rouse-
about at five-bob a week.
Here I was much more at
home than in the brewery office,
for naturally the place was well
stocked with books and I could
get many a peep at those I liked
when Steele or his son Willie,
even then an organist of note,
wasn’t looking. And now and
then an interesting writer came
in.
One day Ethel Turner arrived,
and the whole staff of six
gathered round. A shy, spec-
tacled young woman, simply
dressed. Miss Turner timidly
acknowledged the compliments
ot Steele and his son and bowed
herself out as soon as she could.
Obviously very modest, she
must have found the occasion
rather overwhelming. Yet she
was a successful author already,
having made a hit with Seven
Little Australians and become
Ward, Lock’s most profitable
investment when still in her
twenties.
I stayed as long as I could in
the publishing-house, but our
connection ended abruptly.
Though I got on well enough
with Steele, his son didn’t like
me, and didn’t bother to conceal
it. As likely as not I gave him
provocation, for I was inclined
to be argumentative, and. was
absurdly thin-skinned; anyway,
he gradually passed from
sneers to sarcastic sallies. The
last of these stung me into aim-
ing a punch at him. He beat me
to the floor and his father sacked
me; “owing,” he wrote, “to the
necessity for a rearrangement of
our staff.”
And now I fell into a condition
which, notwithstanding the
ebullient moods that come to
youth even when misery is its lot,
must have been appalling. In
that time of fierce competition a
boy who had been employed but
was without testimonials couldn’t
get another job, and testimonial I
couldn’t produce. I was work-
less and wretched. I had no
friends, played no games and
visited no homes.
I became uneasily aware of a
burgeoning interest in girls;
but my admiring looks, when
not ignored, were returned with
stony stares or sneers. Whatever
may be the case now, young
lasses then were very apt to be
nasty little snobs; and I was
skinny and shabby. Of course,
it was a standing instruction
from mothers to daughters to be-
ware of anyone in pants.
I occasionally saw uncles and
aunts and their proud old
mother, but was never made to
feel that they had any particular
interest in me, except, perhaps,
as a target for admonitions. One
of the uncles, a bank-manager,
comfortably off, as they nearly
all were, and one of his sisters,
who had married a manufac-
turer in a big way, chose, along
with the lady’s husband, to
ignore my existence completely.
The richest uncle, an old
bachelor, reserved his patronage
lor the son of his favorite sister,
a city sharebroker’s wife, though
on the rare occasions on which
we met he never failed to hand
me a sovereign with a ducal air.
The youngest brother, whose
partner was Treasurer, did his
duty to his brother’s fatherless
children according to his lights,
and I respect his memory. But,
childless as he was, I wish he had
shown me some human feeling.
That I received from the uncle
least able to help me, a north-
east farmer after whom I had
been named; but this uncle’s
visits to town were naturally
infrequent.
I did not then resent being
cold-shouldered ; indeed, I liked
all the uncles and aunts who per-
mitted me to see them. They had
soft voices and delightful
brogues and were devoted to one
another. They were lacking not in
heart but in imagination. There
had been a fearful family quarrel
which had never been patched
up, and with the two exceptions
mentioned, they avenged them-
selves on blameless children, the
women, no doubt, influencing the
men.
I never expected, much less
asked, those uncles to have me
educated and trained for a pro-
fession ; but I began to be des-
perately conscious of my ignor-
ance. Considered a delicate child,
and making the most of it after
the fashion of delicate children,
I had learned little at school.
I now made pathetic attempts
to educate myself. Out of one
of my uncle William’s sovereigns
I bought a copy of Cassell’s
Popular Educator and started on
parts of it I thought I could
manage; French and German
among them. But self-instruc-
tion in these subjects was beyond
me. Though a voracious, if de-
sultory, reader, I needed the
discipline which only good
teachers can exact from, and
the guidance which they alone
can give to, youngsters like me,
as well as the spur of rivalry
with other scholars. So even in
the calling which I was to em-
brace, by chance as it were, and
in which I was to remain for 48
years, I never knew enough.
I lived surrounded by thieves,
and one of these stole my only
valued possession, a violin, which
I played rather well for a boy.
It was my farewell to music—a
lasting regret.
My principal resource at this
time was the Public Library. I
read current journals and The
Bulletin in the newspaper-room
(the “Age” for “Positions
Vacant”) and in the library itself
I wandered from fiction to
history, then to biography and
poetry. I read nearly all the
novels of Scott, Dickens and
Thackeray, and some of
Balzac’s ; read Macaulay, Bacon,
Carlyle, Ruskin and Gibbon; de-
lighted ,in Boswell’s Life of
Johnson; marvelled at Shak-
speare and told myself that the
writer of the short clipped sen-
tences characteristic of Bacon’s
essays couldn’t possibly have
written the Plays; and surren-
dered to the magic of Milton,
Burns, Byron, Shelley and Keats.
I never cared for Browning,
though I liked Tennyson, and
while I admired Wordsworth’s
odes and Coleridge’s “Ancient
Mariner” I undervalued both.
Today Coleridge is, to me, the
greatest poet of his age ; certainly
the one with the finest mind.
But to the pursuit of know-
ledge under difficulties I added
a coarser pursuit —horseracing. I
had already begun to visit the
Flemington flat, which was free
to punters, and from the top of
a steeplechase fence I saw New-
haven win the 1896 Derby and
Cup from start to finish, having
a shilling on the colt for each
race.
With part of the winnings
I was able to visit Rickards
music hall and Williamson’s
(Continued on page 25)


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement# of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. UAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. 0. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON. Managing Director.
'Phone: BW 8801.
Branches in all States.
P. BUKDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
COME TO THE
TASMANIAN SUMMER SCHOOL
HOBART
January I—lo, 1954
World Renowned Speakers, Social Life, Crafts, Excursions
SINGLE £l3 All Inclusive. MAN AND WIFE £22
Bring Your Children Special Rates for Families
TRAVEL FACILITIES: Details any Tasmanian Government
Tourist Bureau, or Director of Adult Education, 97 Mac-
quarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania
Princess Theatre, where T was in
the gallery when Carrie Moore
made her debut. Years later I
saw Carrie’s portrait, full length,
on the front page of the London
“Sketch,” a distinction reserved
for reigning beauties and
actresses who had arrived. It all
came back to me the other day,
when I caught sight of Miss
Moore leaving a Sydney lift,
turning to glance cheerfully at
the liftman. She retains her high
spirits and her beautiful speaking
voice, a rarity nowadays when
so many people speak badly,
young women especially, their
voices made more excruciating
by their “Ois” and “mois” and
“ahns” and “gahns.”
I became an habitue of the
Flemington flat, taking the odds
to a shilling or sixpence when I
had sixpence or a shilling, and
“investing” (today’s idiotic ex-
pression) in threepenny
“doubles.” I haunted s.-p. shops
to see the prices chalked up on
blackboards. I even got the
entree to John Wren’s Colling-
wood tote, and found other boys
there, along with hard-featured
“sports”; all in an insanitary
backyard, enclosed by a high
fence, with guards at the gates
and “spotters” near by. I came
to realise how rotten it was of
Wren to let kids have the run of
his joint. Some of us must have,
and all of us may have, gone to
the devil. So in the fullness of
time, when I had cause to criti-
cise Wren’s operations as race-
course proprietor, his pockets
full of banknotes and politicians,
I hit him as hard as I could.
Possibly I was saved from ask-
ing a bookie'for a job by landing
one in a solicitor’s office at
seven-and-six a week. I liked the
engrossing and other work I
was set to do at first, and the
solicitor seemed satisfied. When
he acted for one of the parties
in a Supreme Court case he took
me to court with him to run
errands and the like. He had
briefed one Hayes as senior
counsel, and on the other side
was Topp, like Hayes a leader
of the profession. Junior to
Hayes was W. H. Irvine, who
was to distinguish himself in
more than one field, then making
one of his early appearances at
the Bar.
Irvine was plainly nervous,
especially as Topp guyed him un-
mercifully. The old hand in-
terrupted one Irvine argument
with a blast which the Bench
itself must have heard: “What
do you know about it? You’re
only a ,” an expression
drowned in Hayes’s remon-
strance. It was odd to read in
later years that Irvine, to his
political foes and critics, was a
cold, hard, ruthless man. I knew
that day in court, knew by his
trembling lips and faltering voice,
that he was as sensitive as myself.
Decidedly youth had not then
come into its own, as it has in
these times. W. A. Watt, whom
I followed admiringly from hall
to hall, had to surmount the same
prejudice as Irvine. Even the
Labor leaders, Prendergast and
the rest, sneered at him as a pre-
sumptuous youngster.
Beyond the little world in
which I moved, public affairs had
become exciting; and they ex-
cited me. , Federation, urged on
Victoria by a master of oratory,
Deakin, had been decided upon,
and the Boer War had begun.
It was by no means universally
supported in Australia ; indeed
there was a bit of republican
sentiment about, nor was it
wholly confined to followers of
Michael Davitt. It was never
organised, but it contributed to
the vote for Federation.
Meanwhile I had grown tired
of the law as I saw it in opera-
tion, The boss wasn’t a bad
fellow in some respects —he
offered to buy me a suit of
clothes when my one pair of
ready-madgs had become unfit
for publication —but his prac-
tice was small, and he took
to exacting terrific costs from
persons ill able to pay them ; in
one instance, the widow of a
worker who had died intestate.
And he sent me to serve execu-
tion papers on another worker
who was up against it. When
the wife opened the door and
learned from me that her poor
sticks of furniture —I could see
most of them from the open door
—were to be seized by a bailiff,
she broke down and cried heart-
rendingly.
So when my employer said he
was pleased with my progress
and hinted that if I stayed in
his service I could look forward
to becoming a sort of managing-
clerk at a pound a week, I
blurted out: “But, sir, I’m going
to W.A.” I hadn’t really thought
of it till that moment.
But to avoid being apprised
of “the necessity for a rearrange-
ment of my staff” I wrote to the
kindest of my uncles asking for
the loan of a tenner. I told him I
could get a passage to Fremantle
for £5, another £2 would take me
to Kalgoorlie, and what was left
would suffice to keep me till I got
work. Back came a money-order
for £lO, with a note to the effect
that, as I was only 17 and any-
thing but robust, uncle could
scarcely approve of my plan, but
he knew I would go straight and
gave me his blessing.
So without the glimmer of an
idea of what awaited me, I set
out on my great adventure.
{To be continued next week)
EGBERT and IRONY
By NANCY KEESING
Malcolm yawned,
stretched, drank the last
mouthful of his whisky
and said:
‘•Well, darling—just one more.
Then I really must be off. Aunt
Penelope invariably expects one
punctually.”
“Your Aunt Penelope,
Malcolm, fails to amuse me at
the moment.” Felicity dropped
an ice-block into his glass, releas-
ing it from silver tongs with a
little sharp splash that seemed an
expression of her own irritation.
“In fact, dear, your Aunt
Penelope becomes a bloody
awful bore and you know” —she
held his glass just out of reach —
“I insist on being amused.”
“Stop being symbolic, pet, and
gimme me grog. You can be
amused, too. The irony of it
all
“Irony?”
“Yes. Consider. While you,
sweet-natured angel that you are,
spend an evening in a state of —
but we slfen’t be indelicate —I,
beast that I am, spend an even-
ing of virtue and «refinement. I,
personally, shall derive enormous
entertainment during the first
part of the evening in reflecting
where I have come from and,
during the second part of the
evening, in anticipating where,
and to whom, I shall return. I
repeat, beast that I am.”
“You are.” She smiled almost
dotingly at him, over the rim of
her glass.
“I once,” she said, “heard a
terrible thing that happened to
a couple who allowed irony to
get the better of them. He was
a journalist, too.”
“Do tell.”
“Oh, I mustn’t make you late
for poor sick Aunt Penelope.
I’ll just outline the first part,”
SHE put her feet up on the
sofa and lay back, her black
hair fanned out over three huge
velvet cushions: her favorite
pose. Then she half-shut her
light brown eyes and smiled
gently: her favorite expression,
“We shall call the young man
Egbert and the young woman
Ermyntrude,” she said. “They
worked on the staff of a magazine
whose editor happened to be
Ermyntrude’s husband. We’ll
call him Ethelred.”
“A masterly choice,” observed
Malcolm.
“He was a very nice bloke,”
sighed Felicity.
“Egbert was crazy about
Ermyntrude and she—er —
reciprocated his passion, shall we
say? And I regret to have to
explain, Malcolm, that they were
not very moral types. Egbert
himself had a wife; she needn’t
have a name: we’ll just call her
Mrs, Addle. It’s a coincidence,
darling, but one fine summer day
she went off for a week to nurse
a sick aunt and, this is a sad
story, Egbert was very pleased.
How’s your drink?”
“Fine. I’m enthralled. You
have five minutes.”
“Honestly, five minutes doesn’t
allow much for craftsmanship.
You really have to go to Aunt
Penelope’s?”
“I do. I most emphatically
do.”
“Yes, I see. Well, while Mrs.
Addle was away, Ethelred took
a business trip to Melbourne,
and, having no responsibilities
such as respectable aunts, this
appalling couple, Egbert and
Ermyntrude, decided that now
was the time ...”
“Yes, Felicity, I understand.
Four minutes.” He settled his
stocky body back in his chair,
and although he looked half-
asleep Felicity knew he was
watching her. She continued:
“And so Ermyntrude moved
into Egbert’s house for a day or
so. But, Malcolm,” she opened
her eyes very wide, “that does
shock me. That is one thing I
do disapprove of. They deserved
their fate. I forgot to mention
it, and it’s rather important, that
Mrs. Addle, when at home, drove
a car. In fact the Addles, Mrs.
A. especially, were nicely heeled
and they had a delightful house.
Egbert was extremely proud of
it and Ermyntrude appreciated
it, too —and that’s something,
“Still here? You old son-of-a-gun —you don't look
a day older!”
you know. So often women do
not like other women’s taste. I
know I should detest your Aunt
Penelope’s. Ermyntrude woke
the first morning, pulled the
curtains and sunlight came in
through the most enchanting
French-windows that opened on
to a veranda.
“Their bedroom, poor Mrs.
Addle’s bedroom, rather, was at
the back of the house. So the
next night Ermyntrude said:
‘Egbert. Let’s leave the curtains
open. I want the sunlight to wake
me.’ And Egbert said . . .”
“Now, now, don’t get worked
up, Felicity. Be a lady. Three
minutes.”
FELICITY slipped tier feet to
the ground and crossed her
legs:
“Arfe you listening to my story,
Malcolm?”
“Raptly. I’m waiting for the
irony. Remember you promised
me irony. There’s nothing ironic
in motor-cars and sunlight.”
“Oh, no! Well, they left the
curtains open; but the following
morning it was wet, so there
wasn’t any sun and they slept in,
and what do you think woke
them up?”
“Tell me, sweet. Quick. , A
voice saying ‘Who’s been eating
my porridge?’”
“You’re impossible. No.
Someone knocking on the
French-windows. They woke
up ~ . ”
“With a guilty start ...”
“Exactly, and there they
saw ...”
“Not Ethelred!”
“No. A policeman. He had a
summons for Mrs. Addle for
parking her car overtime, and
not having been able to find her
at home any day for the past
week he’d made an early-
morning visit.”
Malcolm said; “That was bad
luck.”
“Yes. Egbert got up, still not
properly awake, and went over
to the window, and, when the
policeman told him why he’d
come, Egbert mumbled: ‘But
Mrs. Addle’s away.’ The copper
then looked hard at the bed, and
Egbert woke up properly and led
the policeman round to the
kitchen and . . . well, you might
imagine how men square-off
these things. I wouldn’t know.”
Malcolm set his glass down
and glared at Felicity.
“It’s a moderately funny story,
dear, I grant you,” he said,
“and properly told could be made
into something, but...”
“Yes? Oh! Five minutes is
up now, so goodbye.”
“Goodbye, pet. Look up
‘irony’ in the dictionary during
the evening. I’ll give you a test
on its definition when I come
b&ck
“No. I shan’t feel like telling
you later. It’s now I’m inspired.”
“You win.”
MALCOLM sat down again
and lit a cigarette. “What
happened?”
“Nothing for a while.
Ethelred came back, so did Mrs.
Addle. Now Ermyntrude
thought over the incident, and
decided that, ‘properly told,’
Malcolm sweet, it could be a
very funny yarn. Ermyntrude
thought: ‘l’ll write that up. It’ll
be delicious to think of Ethelred
considering it, and it’s a darn
good story so he’ll buy it. Then,
my goodness, what a surprise
Egbert will have when he reads
it.’ ”
“A typical woman’s nastiness.”
“You think so? Ethelred did
buy the story. Then, typical
woman’s nastiness, eh? Later
that same morning he found
himself reading the identical
yarn written from a slightly
altered angle . , . the work of
Egbert.”
“Bless you,” Malcolm sat up,
“I let you off the dictionary
chore and I will hurry back.”
Felicity stood up and went
outside for his coat, remarking
as she helped him into it:
“Of course the really ironical
thing was what Ethelred did.”
“Ethelred?”
“Yes. He bought both their
stories out of his own pocket.
You might almost call Ethelred
a plagiarist. Having used the
ideas in those yarns to set a
detective on to Ermyntrude, he
divorced her. And Mrs. Addle
divorced Egbert.”
MALCOLM sat forward.
Felicity continued, smiling
tenderly at him while she spoke.
“Then, Malcolm, Ethelred wrote
up those stories with an ending
all his own. I think he knew
■Egbert and Ermyntrude probably
would still read ‘Story Weekly’
even though they are no longer
on the staff. Ethelred’s story is
in this week’s number, ironically
enough. But Ethelred’s ending
is marvellous! It explains that
Mrs. Addle never did have a
sick aunt. That poor, wronged
woman was in Melbourne with
Ethelred all the time: it makes
me suspicious of aunts, Egbert,
pet, and of irony.”
“Ermyntrude,” he said,
“indeed you win.”
Graciously she helped him to
remove his overcoat.


SPORTING NOTIONS
It is several years since a New
Zealand-bred three-year-old won
the A.J.C. Derby, but one of
them could do so this spring. On
successive Saturdays two
Dominion-bred contenders for it
have shown form indicating an
excellent chance of lifting the
classic —Eight Bells, at Warwick
Farm, and Telyar, at Rosehill.
Neither Eight Bells nor Telyar
has done much racing, but both
are bred to see the classic
distance right out. Telyar’s run-
away success in the Second
Parramatta Stakes at Rosehill
was most striking, and one or
two bookmakers who have estab-
lished a Derby market have
installed him favorite. However,
the Derby picture still is a bit
obscure, as the Canterbury and
Rosehill Guineas have yet to be
decided.
Telyar won a Canterbury
Maiden late in May, and both
his wins have been impressive.
A son of Count Rendered (imp.)
and Lady Vennachar by Beau
Repaire, he looks all over a
Derby prospect. His sire won
at up to 13 furlongs in England,
while his grandsire. Precipitation,
was successful in the famous
Ascot Gold Cup (2£ miles) and
in other staying events. Lady
Vennachar is a half-sister to
Palfrey, a winner of the N.Z.
St. Leger and runner-up in the
N.Z. Derby, The handsome colt
is raced by M. L Moodabe, who
holds a strong hand in both the
A.J.C. Derby and the Epsom,
his four - year - old Prince
Cortauld heading the betting-list
on the mile.
• • • •
Adelaide sportsman W. Hill-
Smith paid ISOOgns.fofthe brown
colt by the French sire Gabador
(imp.) from Lady Ex at the New
Zealand sales last January.
Another of Lady Ex’s yearlings
was sold at the 1952 auction for
2000gns. A third of the progeny
of Lady Ex is The Maori, stylish
winner of the Rosehill Second
Three-year-old Maiden, Raced
by the American owners Mr. and
Mrs. J. de Blois Wack, who won
the A.J.C. Derby with Deep
River, trained by Maurice Mc-
Carten, The Maori also is in
McCarten’s capable hands,
Midday-Sun, sire of The Maori,
won an English Derby and
£15,748 in stakes. Lady Ex is a
daughter of Lord Quex (imp.)
and Extravagant by Tea Tray
(imp.). She won five races in the
Dominion and is dam of at least
three winners. Extravagant is a
half-sister to Defaulter, whose
22 wins included the A.J.C. Plate
and Autumn Plate and Tatter-
sail’s Chelmsford Stakes.
Too much notice shouldn’t be
taken of Advocate’s defeat into
third place in the Rosehill Han-
dicap by Electro and Arabic.
Advocate was last into the
straight and came on the scene
too late to trouble the other pair.
Maybe jockey S. Cassidy overdid
the waiting tactics on Advocate,
who lost no friends for the
Metropolitan, for which he is on
second line of favoritism to
Carioca and Gendarme. Electro,
who firmed sharply for the
Randwick staying contest, car-
ried 8.10 at Rosehill and drops
to 8.6.
A model of consistency.
Electro has won at his last three
starts. He was resuming at
Rosehill after a spell of several
weeks. Before being eased-up
he had won the Q.T.C. St. Leger
and the. James Barnes Plate at
Randwick, in all three races rid-
den by Bill Camer. French Echo
was a Rosehill flop after his bril-
liant win at Canterbury three
days earlier. Regal Glitter
shaped well enough to mark
down for an early return to the
winning-list, though it is more
than 12 months since his pre-
vious success.
Fast times were the order at
Rosehill and condition of the
track reflected credit on the
curator. One race-record was
broken and another equalled.
The solid going was appreciated
by Krakatoa, who followed up
his Warwick Farm win of the
previous week by taking the Wel-
ter ('7£ furlongs) in record time
(1.30|), which went close to
Carioca’s course-record (1.30).
Krakatoa isn’t much good on a
rain-affected track and has con-
sistently failed under such con-
ditions. He could continue the
good work for the T. J. Smith
stable now that warmer days and
solid tracks are the order. On
him Bill Cook added to his long
list of last-race successes.
• • • •
Brian Crowley, a member of
the A.J.C. Committee, bred and
raced three-year-old Quinella,
winner of the opening event at
Rosehill, the First Three-year-
old Maiden. The gelding is by
Confessor (imp.) from Hilarious,
a mare Crowley als'o raced with
success.
Three favorites were success-
ful at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day, but three outsiders no doubt
made it a good winning day for
the books. Earhart, resuming
after a spell, won the First Ailsa
Handicap (three-year-old fillies)
at 25 to 1. She is a daughter of
Transatlantic (imp,), whose old-
est progeny are now three-year-
olds, with best of them Lind-
bergh. High Lady, dam of Ear-
hart, is by Yaralla from Lady
Wyma by Highfield (imp.). She
has the Carbine blood in her
make-up.
Lord Bosworth came right into
betting for the A.J.C. Epsom
Handicap following his brilliant
win last Saturday in the Doom-
ben Flying, which was run on a
slow track. He is now on the
second line with Carioca, Prince
Cortauld being favorite. One
of the team of successful mentor
F. W. Kennedy, who has en-
joyed a fine run in Brisbane with
several horses he took there a
few months back, Lord Bos-
worth won the Doomben sprint
(7 furlongs less 93yds.) with 8.10
and has 61b. less in the Epsom.
However, the company behind
him was weak. He started at
odds-on.
Former Sydney middle-dis-
tance galloper Lord Saunders
soon came good in Brisbane. His
Sydney form had lately been
moderate, and maybe he caught
the stable unprepared when he
won, at 25 to 1, the Doomben
August Handicap from two other
outsiders. New Zealander Silver
Kingdom was a warm favorite,
but he shaped poorly.
Ciel Etoile, who opened her
winning-account in the Doom-
beh Second Maiden (one mile),
has an interesting background.
Bred in Victoria, she is by Great
Britain from an imported mare,
Palm Sunday,’ who was got by
Flag of Truce from Sunday
Noon by Mid-day Sun from
Ankaret by Blandford. Ankaret
won the Coronation Stakes and
was runner-up in the English
Oaks. She was a half-sister to
Stardust, winner of 1940 English
St. Leger. Crown Gem belongs
to the famous Gem family
which includes Royal Gem, a
successful sire in the U.S., and
V.R.C. Derby winner Beau
Gem, also at the stud in America.
Royal Gem won the Caulfield
Cup and £27,780 in stakes.
A bit of shrewd placing.
Bronze Peak, trained at Rand-
wick by Pat Murray for W.
Bradley, was taken from the
Rosehill Flying (worth £723 to
the winning owner) to contest
last Saturday’s £3OOO Cameron
Handicap at Newcastle, and he
won the richer race from out-
sider Bankbrook and Seacraft.
And Bronze Peak would have
had a tough task to down the
speedy Sunny Hour in the Rose-
hill Flying, because, with a
handy pull in the weights. Sunny
Hour ran the seven furlongs in
1.23|, equalling Cragsman’s
record-time for the event. Bronze
Peak is a six-year-old Cragsman
horse, and maybe if he keeps
sound will contest the Epsom.
*
Newcastle Three-year-old
Maiden winner Couronne Gem
is a product of the Strathmore
Stud, Wagga (N.S.W.). He is a
bay colt by Crown Gem from
Maranga by Marabou from
Cooranga (winner of, among
other races, a Doomben Cup).
Couronne Gem is a first foal and
is from the family which pro-
duced New Zealanders Chide
and Silver Scorn.
New Zealander Gendarme,
joint-favorite for the Metro-
politan, surprisingly ran a
mediocre race in the Jellicoe
Handicap at Ellerslie (N.Z.) last
Saturday, Carrying the welter-
weight of 10,3, he started
favorite, and, after being
prominent to the turn, faded to
10th place. Perhaps the track
was against him, as the winner.
Sir Nicholas, took 1.45| to cover
the mile.
• • • •
Prince Morvi brought off the
Canterbury Guineas - A.J.C.
Derby double 12 months ago, but
few three-year-olds have landed
"Here's a nitwit reckons I can't win this fight."
both races. But then, not many
winners of the Guineas have
competed in . the Randwick
classic. Prince Morvi was
narrowly beaten in the Rosehill
Guineas by 100-to-l Silver
Hawk, who later fan only
moderately in the Derby. Prince
Dakhil, Canterbury Guineas
winner two years ago, finished
third in the Derby, while Delta,
the same Guineas winner in
1949, was defeated in the Derby
by Playboy. Moorland won both
events in 1943. Fastest time for
the Guineas, 1.52|, is shared by
Prince Dakhil and Prince Morvi.
Top-ranking sprinters have
won the w.-f.-a. Canterbury
Stakes, one of the highlights on
this coming Saturday’s pro-
gramme at the S.T.C. track.
Twelve months ago Regoli, at
6 to 1, surprised most racegoers
when he beat 2-to-l-on Tarien,
with Iroquois third, Tarien later
ran second to Silver Phantom in
the Epsom. Joy Lad won the
Canterbury Stakes in 1952, while
San Domenico was successful in
1950 and 1951. Shannon, ridden
by Darby Mimro, won the race
in 1947, Munro has also scored
in the event on Sleepy Fox,
Katanga, Reading, Beaulivre and
Lough Neagh. Some 20 years
back Holdfast won the Stakes
three times running, being twice
ridden by Bill Cook, who later
won on Arachne, Beau Vite and
Gay Monarch. Other top-class
horses to win this sprint include
Chatham, Gold Rod and Yaralla.
Soho, Tattersall’s Carrington
Stakes winner in 1943 and sue-
cessful in other sprint races at
Randwick, is sire of Taralgo,
raced by his breeders, A. L. and
L. Corby, and trained at Rose-
bery by Sid Nicholls. Taralgo
opened his winning-account in a
First Kembla Maiden. His dam,
Birdet, won races on N.S.W.
country courses. She is by
Egmont from Mimetic by Mag-
pie (imp.) from Ellais by Valais
(imp.).
♦ • ♦
An interesting feature of the
Rugby Union season has been
the growing strength of the code
in country districts of N.S.W.
For years country boys have
been coming down to Sydney,
playing G.P.S. football, then, on
returning to the country, either
playing Rugby League with local
teams or dropping out of foot-
ball a process which has
robbed Rugby Union of some
of its finest material, as a glance
through some of the G.P.S.
teams in the past will confirm.
Country Rugby League, In the
past, anyway, was much more
of an amateur game than the
city variety ever pretended to
be, and the process was a natural
one. But there are indications
that an increasing number of
country people are becoming
fed-up with the brawls, ballyhoo
and increasing professionalism
of Rugby League which accom-
panied a competitive investment
in paid-players by certain clubs
after the war. The strength of
Rugby Union in the country is,
in part, a reaction to this
tendency. Although, too, full
credit should be given to those
enthusiasts who have started the
clubs.
The pay-off came on Saturday,
when a country Rugby Union
team, back from a tour of New
Zealand, beat a Sydney team
thick with internationals, 19-17.
Two Newcastle players, forward
Neil Adams and the redoubtable
half; Cyril Burke, were, possibly,
the best men on the ground. In
the opinion of some fair judges
Burke proved he was still the best
half in Australia. This formid-
able stiffening from Newcastle
aside (Newcastle has always
been classified as “country” in
both Rugby codes), the country
players did very well to beat
what was practically a State
side —and a determined State
side —for the first time in 26
years.
• » • •
The country-city game took
some of the interest from the
first semi-final, in which Uni-
versity beat Eastern Suburbs
14-11. It was a hard forward
game, and University won in
the last five minutes, when
Tooth drew Tate and Smee,
passed to James, who gave it to
Hill. Hill scored and Dowse
converted. It was the only clear-
cut try of the game. Eastern
Suburbs had been awarded a
penalty try earlier.
♦ ♦ «
The V.F.L. “four,” after the
last home-and-home round, are
Geelong, Footscray, North and
Melbourne, the same line-up in
the same order as last week
Footscray and North finished
level on points, but ’Scray gels
the second chance on percentage.
The other three contenders for
a place, Essendon, Collingwood
and Richmond, finished level on
points, behind the Demons.
Next Saturday North and Mel-
bourne play-off in the first semi-
final, losers to join the ranks of
the spectators till next season.
• • • •
On Saturday, in a day of easy
wins, Geelong thumped Carlton
(13.12-6.13), Footscray thrashed
Hawthorn (17.15-5.4), Mel-
bourne drubbed South (14.17-
7.7), North galloped St. Kilda
(19.15-12.10) and Richmond
whacked Collingwood (14.17-
6.12). In the only close finish
lowly Fitzroy had a goal the
better of Essendon, after the
Dons had fought back from a
half-time deficit of 55 points
(14.13-13.13).
“Zorok”: Bernie Naylor, star
South Fremantle full-forward,
whom I mentioned in a par. (B.
4/8/’54), recently kicked his
1000th goal in Aussie Rules
league. The third of his five goals
against East Fremantle brought
him into the select band of four-
figure kickers; his fourth
brought-up his 100th for this
season. Naylor has played just
short of 200 games, so he’s
averaged about five goals a
match. Only five others have
kicked 1000 six-pointers in
league football, of whom two
are Westralians —Ken Farmer
(North Adelaide), 1418 ; Gordon
Coventry (Collingwood), 1299,
Ted Tyson (West Perth), 1184;
Harry Vallance (Carlton), 1070;
and George Doig (East Fre-
mantle), 1042. Jack Titus (Rich-
mond) kicked 940 goals for the
Tigers and 119 more for Coburg,
in association football; Ron
Todd, in league and association
games combined, tallied exactly
999!
* ♦ ♦
In Brisbane Australia com-
fortably defeated N.Z, in the
second Soccer Test, 4-1, to make
the third Test decisive. Australia
fielded practically a new com-
bination. Its two new forwards,
Stewart and Lennard, made a lot
of difference. Stewart, a real
good-’un on his day, notched
two of the goals and helped in
the other two, N.Z. is missing
its spearhead, Reg King, who
was injured in the first Test and
has gone home ; its general play
on Saturday lacked the punch it
had had earlier.
♦ * •
“Birdie”: Australian golfer
Peter Thomson, who, with Kel
Nagle, lately won at Montreal
the Canada Cup, wants its
sponsors to make it golf’s “Davis
Cup”—to be played for each
year in the country holding the
cup. Next year consequently it
would be staged in Australia.
With the recent ending of the
McWilliam’s tournament it
could be the means of bringing
out some top-line overseas
golfers: provided, of course,
Australia has its share of wins.
* * ♦
Alfie Sands (10.13) struck a
Tartar when he met Laurie
Metcalf (10.7) at Leichhardt
Stadium, and it looked as if Met-
calf may have just about won,
though the scrap was declared a
draw. All of two rounds (the
Bth and 12th) went against
Sands, as he was cautioned in
each of them for trying to swing
Metcalf off his feet. Sands
floored Metcalf for “nine” in the
10th, however, and this made
matters so even as round 12
ended that maybe the draw de-
cision was the right one. Any-
way, Metcalf has plenty of
pluck, and his boxing was
cleaner. Against it, Sands
stacked the wiles of experienced
ringcraft, and the scrap alto-
gether was certainly a clinker to
watch.


TUCKER&CO
C=J
o
PTY. LTD
3
ESTB. 1838
WHOLESALE
DISTEIBUTOES OF
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
"The Brandy of Distinction
BOLS
CAPSTAN
Old itavj?
RUM
V.O. GENEVER
and LIQUEURS
Ihe Spirit of the Sugar Cane
WORLD FAMOUS SINCE 1575
THE CHOICE / OF // ROYALTY
S EX PORT
LAGER BEER
Lager at its Best "
Problems in the Chase After
OIL
By L. OWEN, A.R.C.S. (Lond.),
A.R.S.M., D.I.C., F.Inst.Pet.
Historical
CRUDE petroleum has been
used, since the dawn ot
history, by the ancient
civilisations abutting on
the Mediterranean for a variety
of purposes, although, outside
the Naft areas of Mesopotamia,
the known sources of supply
were rare and the material had
to be collected laboriously either
by skimming from the surface of
pools of water or by baling from
shallow excavations. Noah is
reputed to have caulked the Ark
with “pitch”—which was merely
the partly oxidised and thickened
residue of an asphaltic crude oil.
The same substance is still
employed in waterproofing the
shells of primitive coracles
where the use of that craft has
survived.
In the New World, long before
Columbus —or any of his reputed
forerunners —had made landfall
in the Western Hemisphere,
medicine-men had used “rock-
oil” for treating all the ills of the
flesh.. Even the pigs left by early
Spaniards found petroleum
beneficial ; I have often used the
tracks of their descendants to
guide me through the Andean
bush to unrecorded oil-seepages.
In general, however, the white-
man of the New World regarded
as an unmitigated nuisance any
oil which he struck when sinking
wells for fresh-water or brine.
In the mid-1840’s, in fact, the
presence of oil in wells in
Pennsylvania was so irksome that
quite substantial rewards were
offered for any satisfactory
method of destroying, or of
utilising, this noxious substance
which fouled both water and
salt. It is a matter of interest
that, at that very time, James
Young, of Glasgow, was extract-
ing, by distillation, both illu-
minating- and lubricating-oils
from material obtained from one
of England’s very few petroleum-
springs.
This spring had been struck
in a colliery at Alfreton, in
Derbyshire, and had, at the time
when it was first utilised by
Young, a flow of about 300
gallons a day. It was not far
from the site on which the first
producing oilwell was drilled in
England during World War I.
With constant pumping, the flow
from the colliery - spring
diminished to such an extent that
it became unprofitable in 1851 as
a source of crude oil, and James
Young turned his attention to
the distillation of torbanite
In the U.S.A., also, Gesner
obtained, by distillation from
albertite, what he called
“kerosene” —which appears to
be the first time this word was
employed in commercial
quantities; while Samuel Kier,
in 1849, was already bottling oil
from the Pennsylvanian oil-
seeps and selling it as a Red
Indian cure-oil. In the following
year, Kier devised a plant for the
distillation of the crude oil, and
produced an illuminant which
he called ‘'carbon oil” apd sold
at $1.50 a gallon.
The stage was thus set for the
sinking by “Colonel” Drake of
the first commercial oilwell,
when, at Titusville, Pennsylvania,
from a depth of 69ft. 6in., on
August 27, 1859, he produced
petroleum from a bore sunk
specifically for that purpose and
not as a scum on brine.
The Drake discovery was fol-
lowed, immediately, by the first
oil-boom, and derricks sprang up
all round the area, the drilling
locations being chosen either
haphazardly or by proximity to
petroleum-seepages. It is not
surprising, therefore, that many
of the wells struck brine without
worth-while oil, or were dry, and
this brought geologists to the
scene in an attempt to discover
the conditions which determined
success or failure.
The Structural Concept
Sometime in 1860 T. Sterry
Hunt and E. B. Andrews, inde-
pendently and almost simul-
taneously, and for different
reasons, suggested that wefl-
locations near the crests of anti-
clines were more likely to be
successful in striking oil than
those down-dip. They both got
into print in 1861, Sterry Hunt
claiming, in the “Canadian
Naturalist,” that gas and oil were
found at the crests of anticlines
because they floated on the brine,
while Andrews maintained that
the strata at the anticlinal crests
harbored gas and oil because
they were fissured by convex
bending and were thus rendered
more porous.
For many years the truth or
error of the anticlinal theory was
a subject for argument, but, with
modifications and elaborations,
it has remained a very useful
working rule-of-thumb in the
development of most —but by no
means all —new oilfields. Unfor-
tunately, however, it has been
used by textbooks and by
teachers of geology in a mislead-
ingly simple form which 4ias
been seized upon and misinter-
preted by charlatans and even
by geologists lacking the
specialised experience necessary
for a true appreciation of its
limitations and its dangers.
In Persia, Burma and the
Caucasus the anticlinal concep-
tion of oil-accumulation is so
near the truth that its application
has been strikingly successful.
On the other hand, around the
Maracaibo Lake Basin of
Venezuela (to quote one of many
examples of which I have
personal knowledge) conspicuous
anticlinal and domal structures
drilled around the margin gave
poor results, and decades elapsed
before the major oilfields were
discovered in the central portion
of the basin.
In Pennsylvania itself, where
the anticlinal theory was born,
the beds in which the oil is found
are, to all intents and purposes,
horizontal. In North Oklahoma
and Kansas the oil occurs in
gently dipping monoclines, and
in East Texas it is associated
with normal faulting. In Poland
the oil has been won from struc-
tures which have been subjected
to intense thrusting and over-
folding.
Often commercial accumula-
tions of petroleum are found at
or near disconformities or uncon-
formable junctions; Venezuela,
in South America, has a very
interesting example of this type
of “pool,” and the understand-
ing of its intricacies have
absorbed years of painstaking
collection of well-data and of
intensely detailed field-work.
Salt Dome oilfields include
several types of accumulation, of
which domal (a special type of
anticlinal), normal and thrust-
faulting, disconformities and
unconformities (both structural
and depositional) and overhang
may be mentioned. I pointed out
long ago, in the British technical
Press, that drilling on the
margins of salt-domes should not
be discontinued immediately salt
was struck, as oil might be
trapped by overhang. This state-
ment was made just before oil
was so discovered in the Barbers
Hill oilfield of Texas.
In some cases, such as in
Mexico and Texas, igneous dykes
close the trap in which the oil
accumulates, and it should be
obvious from the examples given
above that the very abundance
of types of structures in which
oil can be held in com-
mercial quantities forms a major
difficulty in exploratory work.
When lecturing, I used to
illustrate the enormous variety
of structures which could act as
oil-traps by crumpling metal foil.
If the resulting shape could hold
water, it might, when inverted,
act as a reservoir for petroleum.
Australia has been unfortunate
in its attempts to produce oil
from textbook structures. At
Arcadia (1935-38) and Morelia
(1950-51), both in Queensland,
wells were drilled on almost
structurally perfect domes, as
was the Kulnura well (1935-38)
in New South Wales. Although
the locatipns were chosen by ex-
perienced' petroleum - geologists,
nothing of commercial value was
found.
The only oil struck on the
Australian mainland, in measur-
able but not commercial
quantities, prior to the Rough
Range discovery, was obtained
by sheer accident. I refer to
Roma and Lakes Entrance.
Even the Rough Range well,
which was located on structural
grounds in 1953, encountered oil
just above a disconformity and
some 2000 ft. above the
anticipated depth.
Genesis of Petroleum
As soon as crude oil attained
commercial significance, scientists
—and particularly chemists —
began to speculate as to the
processes by which it was formed
in nature.
Petroleum consists, essentially,
of carbon and hydrogen; for
that reason a large variety of
substances containing carbon
have been credited, at one time
or another, with being respon-
sible for the oil entrapped in the
earth. Early favorites were the
metallic carbides, and these were
closely followed by fish-, wood-,
coal- and oil-shales.
The geological environments
in which most of the world’s oil
occurs preclude genesis from
carbides, but this fact was
ignored by most of the chemical
theorists, who continued to
uphold their ideas for several
years. Amongst geologists them-
selves, a verbal fight was waged
over decades as to the respective
merits of a vegetable or an
animal origin.
Both factions were probably
right, and it is now generally
accepted that the mother-sub-
stance of petroleum may be any
cominuted organic substance
possessing a fairly complex
structure.
Chemical catalysts, bacteria
and short - wave rays are
separately favored as accelerators
to the transmutation, but it is
generally agreed, amongst
petroleum - geologists, that the
process must occur under
anserobic [active in the absence
of free oxygen] conditions, so
that anything approaching
complete decay is prevented.
The existence of optically
active substances in many crude
oils rules out very high tempera-
tures during any part of the
reaction; nor are very high
pressures required. Geologists
are usually prodigal with time,
but the change from cominuted
organic matter to prot-oil would
appear to take place within the
period of the laying-down of a
single clay stratum. In any case,
as most geologists and physicists
have always realised, no amount
of time can reverse the direction
of a chemical change, but can
only modify it.
Source-beds
The beds in which the prot-oil
could be adsorbed from the
aqueous medium in which it was
generated and preserved by
sedimentation are, of necessity,
composed of small particles
which will settle only slowly.
The material of source-beds is
thus restricted to clays, silts and
calcareous oozes which, when
consolidated, form shales, marls
or limestones.
During consolidation the prot-
oil is expressed into contiguous
and normally overlying porous
beds —usually sandstones —but it
may be retained in the limestones
and marls in which it was
generated, where these have
become porous and permeable.
The fluid, in the form in which
it is expressed, consists of quite
small globules of oily substance
suspended in the connate water,
but, by travel along and through
sands or other media of varying
porosity and permeability, the
water, oil and gas are more-or-
less completely segregated, the
oil and gas being selectively
trapped in the lenses of coarser
material.
Conditions favorable to the
formation of source-beds occur
commonly throughout the
geological cycle and are not
exceptional, as is popularly
supposed. What is comparatively
rare is the sequence of source-
bed formation followed
immediately by the deposition of
reservoir-bed material, circula-
tion within that material to allow
of segregation and, finally and
most importantly, the trapping of
the segregated fluids so that
escape and dispersion is
prevented.
Migration
It may be stated, as a genera-
lisation, that, owing to their
relative specific-gravities, gas, oil
and water tend to separate in
that order where they are in
contact, but this disposition is
influenced by the direction of
migration and the existing condi-
tion (i.e., dry, water-wet or oil-
wet) of the lenses through which
migration occurs, as well as by
the relative coarseness of the
material composing them. It is
not safe, therefore, to assume a
gas-oil-water sequence in “pools”
where the characteristics are not
accurately known from cores
and where the geological history
has not been worked out in
detail.
As source- and reservoir-beds
require physical attributes which,
normally, render them unsuitable
for acting in more than one of
these capacities, it follows that
practically all the petroleum
segregated into commercial
“pools” has undergone some
degree of migration. The only
cases in which the oil is still
trapped in its source-bed is
where the mother calcareous-
ooze has become a porous lime-
stone, dolomite or marl, or where
the normally impermeable
source-rock has been so shattered
by earth-movements (e.g., fault-
ing and folding) that it has
become sufficiently porous and
permeable to ,act as a reservoir-
bed.
For geological purposes, it is
unusual to regard as migrated
any oil which has travelled only
from a clay- to a sand-stratum
in the same facies.
While the process of migration
may lead to the segregation of
oil and gas and the formation
of commercial “pools,” it is
often the cause of dispersal and
loss. Each oil-seepage observed
ht the surface is, in fact, an illus-
tration of the loss of petroleum,
and each “mud-volcano” of the
loss of gas. In rare cases some
part of the escaping oil is pre-
served by absorption in beds
deposited while the seepage is in
progress and afterwards covered
by an impermeable stratum.
Tliis is the usual reason for the
existence of oil-“pools” at dis-
conformities and at uncon-
formable junctions.
Oil-reservoirs
A satisfactory oil-reservoir
not only must include a high
o Continued on page 35)


Established 1808 in Reign of
George Hi.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(. England )
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Don't sell yourself
short
“I’m sure getting old” . . .
“You like these earrings? Got
’em in a chain store!” —why is
it we belittle ourselves? In
September Reader's Digest,
Gelett Burgess shows how this
trait makes people aware of
faults they’d never notice other-
wise: why licking the habit
can strengthen your character.
Also in September Reader’s
Digest: 29 other stimulating
articles of lasting interest, in-
cluding “New hope for high
blood pressure," “Don’t teach
your youngster to drive,” “Do
you breathe properly?”, and a
14-page book condensation of
“The Dam,” exciting account
of man’s heroism. September
Reader’s Digest on sale now —
1/6 at all newsagents and
bookstalls.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TURKISH TRENDS
For some time the U.S. has
been forced to consider the
possibilities of an “agonising
reappraisal” of its policy in
Europe if the European Defence
Community is not ratified. “If
events force such an unpleasant
task upon Washington,” writes
C. L. Sulzberger in “New York
Times,” “it is certain that
American interests in the Balkans
will not cease”:
“Whether, as the United States
hopes, the present policy based
on Nato recovers vigor after the
ordeal of Geneva, or whether it
gradually assumes another form,
political and strategic interest in
South-Eastern Europe cannot be
permitted to falter.”
On the same theme, New York
“Herald Tribune” comments
editorially that “the Balkan
alliance has a special meaning
for that troubled region. Yugo-
slavia, Greece and Turkey have
often been at odds with one
another in the past, and their
present harmony promises pros-
perity as well as military stability.
The attraction which this group
will have for the Soviet satellites
in the same general area —
Albania, Bulgaria, Rumania and
Hungary—can be expected to be
very great.
“The role of Turkey in this
encouraging development has
been most important. The vigor
and statesmanship of the
Turkish Government is a major
force for good in an uneasy
world.”
* * *
Further comment on that
vigor of Turkish development:
Dr. Malcolm Burr, of Istanbul,
in London “Fortnightly”:
“Turkey is the only country in
the Middle East that has had no
coups d’etat, no political
assassinations, no counter-
revolution, and her people have
set an example that many a
Western Power may envy, not
excluding ourselves [Britain], for
not only has she avoided political
crisis, but she has had only a
single change of Government
since her birth in 1923, and that
conducted by an orderly general
election. .There is no Communist
party and scarcely a fellow-
traveller in the land ; Turkey has
not even had a strike,
“The general election of 1950,
the first genuine, free election
ever held in the country, packed
up the old single party, the
Republican Popular party, the
instrument forged by Atatiirk to
carry through the regeneration
of his people, for it had fulfilled
its task and its good work was
done. The time had come for
the younger generation, and the
nation brought into power on an
overwhelming flood the new
Democrat party, then barely four
years old. Now it has had four
years of power, in which it has
amply justified its existence.
“In foreign affairs there is no
difference between the parties,
which offer a combined front to
the world, in an unqualified
identification with the ideals of
the Western democracies and an
unshaken assertion of the
sanctity of their own territory.”
The same: “With Pakistan
Turkey has concluded an agree-
ment of friendship and co-
operation, to which it seems
likely that Irak will adhere.
Almost at the same time was
celebrated the anniversary of the
tripartite defence pact with
Greece and Yugoslavia. The
friendship established with
Greece involved the burial not
of a hatchet, but of a battleaxe
over a thousand years old, to the
immense credit of both countries.
As King Paul of the Hellenes
said, if Turkey and Greece can
forget the millenary antagonism
of their two countries and shake
hands, that is an example to
other countries in Europe. As
it was the present Goverriment
that secured Turkey’s admission
to Nato, its record in foreign
affairs is good.”
The same: “In the field of
economics the Democrat party
has changed the face of the
country. It rejected at once
the system of a central direction
and set to work to encourage
private enterprise and individual
initiative.
“In 1950, the year of the last
elections, the gross production
of cereals was 6,764,832 tons
from 8,244,182 hectares of land.
In 1952 it was 12,291,000 tons
from 9,860,500 hectares; for
1953 the estimated figures are
14,000,000 tons from 10,832,000
hectares. Turkey now occupies
the fourth place among the
world’s exporters of wheat.
“Similarly with cotton: in
1950 it was cultivated in two
provinces ; today in 26. In 1950
the .output was 118,000 tons ; in
1952 it was 170,000, of which
70,000 was exported.”
• • •* •
The same: “The expansion
in various fields is due to the
richness of the soil in Turkey,
the persistence and strength of
the people, and the support of
the United States. The total
amount of money that has come
in from America in various
forms —military aid, national
defence, gifts, loans and
economic aid—is estimated at
over 1500 million dollars.”
•♦ • *
London '‘Economist”: “One
quarter of the total divisions
claimed by Nato is provided by
Turkey. These 22 infantry
divisions, three cavalry divisions,
three armored brigades and the
nascent air- and naval-forces
that support them, make an
annual claim equal to about half
the national budget. This burden
is in no way resented or deplored.
Indeed, any suggestion that the
Turkish Army should be reduced
as the Greek Army is about to
be would be greeted with
scepticism, if not incredulity.
“The gravity of the economic
burden is recognised ; but it is
argued that security comes first,
that Turkey’s strongest claim to
respect lies in its military
strength, and that national
service in the ranks gives young
men a technical and general
education.”
• * •
George McGhee, U.S. Ambas-
sador to Turkey 1951-53, in the
U.S. quarterly review “Foreign
Affairs”: “When in February,
1952, the Grand National
Assembly of Turkey voted
404 to 0, with one abstention, to
London “Daily Express”
“ ST. GEORGE HE WAS FOR ENGLAND”
“Trouble is I’m only good at fighting dragons”
accept the invitation to member-
ship extended by the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation, an
era ended for Turkey and a
new one began. Once and for all,
Turkey had become an integral
part of Europe and the West.”
The same: “The Turkish
attitude is perhaps best shown
by the reaction to the United
Nations’ request for help in
repelling the aggression of the
North Koreans. Turkey had at
that time received no commit-
ments from the Western Powers
for her own defence, but on
July 22, 1950, the Turkish Gov-
ernment announced that it was
sending a brigade of 5000 men to
Korea —the first to respond to
the appeal after the United
States.
“Prime Minister Adnan
Menderes stated at the time;
‘lt is only by way of a decision
similar to ours, to be arrived at
by other freedom-loving nations,
that acts of aggression can be
prevented and world peace can
be safeguarded. A sincere
attachment to the ideals of the
United Nations requires a belief
in this basic principle.’ ”
The same: “Since 1677 the
Turks have fought 13 wars with
Russia, all of which have fol-
lowed a similar pattern: in
pursuit of her ambitions, Russia
has resorted to overt aggression,
alliances with Turkey’s enemies
alternating with offers of alliance
with Turkey herself, construction
of spheres of influence over
buffer States, encouragement of
independence movements and
subversion of religious and qther
minorities. This is the pattern
of Soviet behavior today. In
many of its wars Turkey was
defeated by Russia and lost
territory. In none, however, was
she totally defeated or occupied,
nor did she lose the Straits.”
The same: “The correctness
of Turkish behavior toward the
Soviet Union is illustrated by the
fact that Turkey alone, among
the non-satellite countries, sent
an official representative to
Stalin’s funeral. True, the
Russians were so surprised that
transportation arrangements
were not made in time to permit
the representative to reach
Moscow until after the funeral;
but then, as always, Turkey
observed the proprieties,”
The same: “The United
States has made a great contribu-
tion, first by assistance through
the Marshall Plan and later
through the Mutual Security
Programme and Foreign Opera-
tions Administration. As of
June 30, 1953, grants under
these programmes aggregated
261.500.000 dollars and loans
140.200.000 dollars.
“American aid has, however,
served mainly to spark an
indigenous effort on the part of
the Turks. There were some
3000 tractors in Turkey in 1948,
for example, and 7600 were sub-
sequently imported under
American aid ; but the remainder
of the 36,000 operating in 1953
were imported and paid for by
Turkey.
“At the end of 1953 the United
States Government had made a
total contribution of 27,602,000
dollars toward Turkish road-
development by providing
machinery and experts from
U.S. Public Roads Administra-
tion ; but the equivalent of some
293,000,000 dollars drawn from
the Turks’ own resources was
spent on roads during this same
period. The result is a network
of some 13,000 miles of all-
weather road which, as much as
anything else, has made possible
the large-scale increase in agri-
cultural production which under-
lies the country’s progress.”
Lessons of Indo-China
There are, in London
“Economist’s” view, five Indo-
China lessons:
1. “Indo-China has shown
how dangerous it is for any group
of nations to attempt, or talk of
attempting, what is clearly
beyond its power ; if, hereafter,
the Western Governments cut
their coat more strictly accord-
ing to their cloth, this lesson
will not have been wasted.”
2. “It has also shown the vital
importance in our age of a
sincere and generous approach to
the peoples who are now emerg-
ing from dependent status. In
Vietnam the Communists’ world-
wide strategy of identifying
themselves with the upsurge of
nationalism was given every
assistance both by French
recalcitrance and by the fluctuat-
ing policies of the other Western
Powers; and the result was the
embittering of relations between
Asians and Westerners not only
in Indo-China itself but through-
out southern Asia.”
3. “This is the lesson that
needs most hammering home as
far as the British public is con-
cerned : The applause that
greeted Mr. Eden’s diplomatic
success at Geneva was fully
deserved ; but most of those who
applauded chose to forget that
British diplomacy was even in
this case pivoting on a fulcrum
of American power. Both Mr.
Eden’s' warning in June and
M. Mendes-France’s dramatic
deadline would have been less
successful in winning concessions
from Molotov and Chou En-lai
if the thought of the United
States’ armed might had not been
in the minds of the Communist
leaders.
“It is America’s strategy, the
strength and backbone that it
has put into the free world —not
in the past three months but in
the past six years—that has made
it possible to retrieve anything
at all from the French collapse
in Indo-China. If the Com-
munists were willing to refrain
from pushing their advantage to
the utmost, it was primarily not
because of Mr, Eden’s or M.
Mendds-France’s skill in negotia-
tion, but because the Americans
are strong and have shown that
they will use their strength if
Communist aggression goes too
far.”
4. “Agreement to divide
Vietnam is no pointer to an
agreement to reunite Germany.
True, in Indo-China the West
has had to accept a ‘neutralisa-
tion’ such as it has rejected for
Germany. But in Vietnam the
Communists have won both a
military victory and a wide
measure of popular support; in
Germany they have won neither,
and for Germany the true lesson
of Indo-China is the fact that
military and political weakness
must lead inevitably to accept-
ance of Communist terms.”
5. “The most painful lesson
of Indo-China is the impossi-
bility of holding in check a
dynamic and ruthlessly dis-
ciplined movement when there is
no matching unity among the
potential victims. In Europe
the free nations have held their
line in recent years because they
possessed both a joint defence-
organisation and an ideological
bond. In South-East Asia there
has been neither of these things.
The Geneva agreements may yet
provide a basis on which to build
a new unity in the region before
it is altogether too late. But
they also provide an awful
example of what happens when
unity, and unrelaxed effort
behind the unity, are lacking.”


Missing Friend
THE whereabouts of GEORGE WALKER,
son of Mrs. S. E. WALKER, “Tamworth
Hotel,” Tamworth, N.S.W. Late R.A.AJL,
Second World War. Reply to Box Ko.
252, “Bulletin,” Sydney.
“TAXI!”
Elsie and her boy-friend Perce need a taxi badly to get out of another hilarious
predicament in “The Cadbury Show” a wonderful half-hour of sparkling
comedy and catchy songs with a galaxy of stars supporting Rita Pauncetort
in her beloved role of “Elsie,” and Kevin Brennan as “Perce. ’
Presented by Cadburys Dairy Milk Chocolate
"THE CADBURY SHOW"
Mondays, 7.30 p.m.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2CA 2WL 2LF 2PK 2MG 2LT
2MW 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
©
Mighty Dollars
Abe Lincoln once wrote with
admirable force and clarity on
the dangers of lending and or
easy money, particularly to the
recipient ; it would be interesting
to know what he’d have said
about the flood of easy dollars
Uncle Sam has poured out to the
free world since the last war.
Possibly he might have
approved —possibly. But it’s
hard to imagine that stern phiz
looking happy about it, particu-
larly when, as the “U.S. News
and World Report” puts it, “all
that’s necessary to get these
dollars, allies of America are
given to understand, is to keep
on the good side of the American
Government”:
“That is the fact being
impressed on the minds of
Western diplomats as they
wrestle with the problems of the
world. It is found to be a major
influence at moments when U.S.
allies toy with the idea of
nestling down beside the
Russians.
“In the bargaining sessions
that go on in Geneva, in Berlin,
in other spots around the world,
the Communists make demands,
try to drive hard deals, even
threaten war. Allies, at times,
show signs of being impressed.
It is then, U.S. officials believe,
that thoughts turn to American
aid. Those dollars and the things
they buy help reduce the urge to
appease Communists, tend to
restore the bonds of alliance.
“That conclusion, at least, is at
the bottom of present American
policy.
“To back up this American
policy. Congress is providing
President Eisenhower with
authority to give .away more
millions of new dollars. When
action is completed on latest aid
plans, there will be more than
$16,000 million available or
promised $12,800 million in
“mutual security” funds and
$3400 million in special pro-
grammes involving gifts and
investment credits. This is in
addition to what the Government
paid for surplus food that the
President is getting authority to
give away.
“It means that dollars for aid
to America’s allies, instead of
drying up at this time, are being
made available for spending at
about the present rate for at least
three years ahead.
“The Far East, in particular, is
down for more aid, not less, in
the period ahead. Indications
are that dollars going for the
Indo-China war, at the rate of
nearly $lOOO million yearly, will
be shifted to other nations in
South-East Asia. Thailand
already is promised a major aid-
programme. More money can
be expected, too, for others in the
line of fire —Burma, Malaya,
Indonesia, Laos, Cambodia, even
Australia, New Zealand,
Formosa and the Philippines.
“A South-East Asia alliance
would mean more military
burdens for countries in that part
of the world, or with interests in
that area, with U.S. paying a
major share.
“In addition, Korea is certain
to need large amounts of new
military aid if more South
Korean units are to be formed to
replace U.S. Army units"there,
as planned. And efforts are
being made now to get Japan
started on its rearmament, for
which the U.S. would pay much
of the cost.
“Western Europe, which got
$2300 million in direct
arms-aid alone in the last year,
must have more than $lOOO
million yearly just to keep its
present forces up-to-date and
supplied, according to one study
just made for the Govern-
ment. To pay for the scheduled
expansion of European strength
will cost more. Then there are
firm commitments to pay for new
bases in Spain, to support a
combat-aircraft programme in
Britain, to complete a vast net-
work of jet airfields across
Europe.
“Rearmament of Western
Germany, not yet started, is
assumed to be hear, with the cost
to be borne at least in part by
free dollar-aid from the United
States
“Moslem countries are in line
now for increased aid. The
Turks are just starting to be re-
equipped with jet planes and
heavy ordnance equipment. This
will be costly, and means, too,
that they will be needing more
“N.Y. Times”
THE FOSTER-PARENT
jet fuel, spare-parts and replace-
ments. These needs will grow
as their forces become more
mechanised. Iran, in turn, is due
for an increase in arms-aid.
Pakistan is just beginning to get
military aid from U.S. Irak is
to follow.
“Most of the non-Communist
world now has a direct stake in
plans to continue U.S. help.
Thirty-one countries, in both
hemispheres and on every con-
tinent, are receiving military aid
at present. Others, notably
Nehru’s India, get dollars in the
form of economic aid of various
kinds. Some, like France, are
getting both types and could find
themselves in serious financial
trouble if U.S. aid were withheld.
“More countries are being
added gradually to the list of
those getting free U.S. dollars.
This year, for the first time,
Spain is on the list. So is
Pakistan, Guatemala, its pro-
Communist Government tossed
out, is in line now for help.
Thailand is added to the big-
money list. Other countries in
Asia are very likely to be added
during the year ahead.
“What the Russian world
offers nations not its satellites,
in exchange for co-operation, is
somewhat less inviting. There
are no free roubles, free arms or
free economic aid to be had
there. Markets for Western
goods are offered, but payment
for those goods, past experience
shows, often is difficult to collect.
The biggest Russian offer usually
is a cease-fire somewhere, and the
price is a surrender of land or
principles.
“From the U.S. Government,
however, flow broad hints that
the outpouring of its free dollars
may not continue automatically
to those who fail to keep on the
good side of the free world.”
What to See in China
Some London “Economist”
musings on what the British
Labor visitors to China might,
and might not, see during their
travels:
“The Labor delegates have
presumably reconciled them-
selves in advance to the fact
that during their tour they will
be photographed, filmed,
recorded for radio and exhaus-
tively written-up by the world-
wide Communist ‘disinforma-
tion’ network; that their
simplest expressions of thanks
to their hosts will be represented
as prostrations before the might
and the glory of Mao Tse-tung’s
regime ; and that if they venture
to comment unfavorably on any-
thing they see, no breath of that
criticism will reach the millions
behind the Iron Curtain. They
presumably think this is a price
worth paying in order to see
Peking’s peepshow.
“It is easy to guess what their
hosts will be anxious to show
them; the conducted tour
through the new China is already
as standardised as the uniforms
and thoughts of its rulers. Mr.
Attlee, Mr. Bevan their
companions will visit ‘model
villages’ and ‘mutual-aid’ farms,
water-conservancy works and
State-operated factories; they
will admire the Gate of Heavenly
Peace and the Nine-Dragon
Wall; they will relax beside
peaceful lakes, and they will be
shown films depicting the
regime’s progress and its peace-
ful intentions.
“And why not? The Com-
munist Government has unques-
tionably much to show ; it is,
indeed, oddly coy about letting
impartial foreign visitors see
how it has improved on the
state of affairs to which the
Kuomintang and years of war
had reduced the country.
“Yet if the Labor delegates
confine themselves to viewing
these exhibits and debating
Marxist principles with their in-
defatigable guides, their passage-
money will be wasted. The
achievements and the theories
of Mao’s Government can be
seen and studied in glossy publi-
cations generously distributed in
Britain and other free countries.
“There are other facets of the
regime that are not so widely
publicised; and if the delegates
are to learn in Peking anything
that they could not have learnt
in Bloomsbury or Westminster
it is to these that their attention
should be particularly directed.
“As a start, they might well
propose a call at the office of
the Supreme People’s Procura-
tor, a functionary who, with his
deputy procurators-general, con-
trols ah extensive apparatus
concerned with the punishment
of those who neglect their work
or ‘sabotage’ production or con-
struction. They might try to
attend one of the trials of
workers conducted by the ‘com-
rade tribunals’; the duties of
these bodies, intended to ‘combat
violations of labor discipline,’
were described at length in the
‘People’s Daily,’ the ‘Pravda’ of
Peking.
“When they are shown over
State factories the trade-union
delegates might well ask their
interpreters to construe the new
code of labor discipline, which,
according to Government orders
issued in mid-July, ought now to
be prominently posted on the
walls.
“It forbids workers to talk or
otherwise waste time in working
hours, to arrive late or ‘stroll
around’; it requires them to try
to overfulfil their norms, and in
any case to fulfil them ; and the
last eight of its 22 sections are
devoted to punishments, which
are to be given promptly for
any lateness or idleness.
“Workers, says this code,
should be made to apologise for
their mistakes publicly; if their
products are defective, up to
one-third of their wages will be
deducted to make good the
State’s loss ; and, while appeal
may be made to a higher level,
any punishment awarded must
be imposed without awaiting the
higher organ’s ruling. There is,
of course, no right to strike in
China now.
“Factory work is, indeed, so
attractive in People’s China that
it is sad to read in the ‘People’s
Daily’ of July 11 that many
parents still think it better for
their children to get secondary
education than to pass directly
from primary school to work-
bench. Castigating these out-
worn ideas, the official Com-
munist newspaper warns parents
that only a few children can go
to secondary schools, and that
the party and Government will
show them that juvenile labor
is ‘equally glorious.’
“Mr. Attlee and Mr. Sevan
are not likely to get a close look
at Mao’s now enormous Army.
But while they are contemplat-
ing China’s industrial progress
they might find time to glance
at the ‘People’s Daily’ leading
article of July 24, which em-
phasised that modem armed
forces could not be built up
without heavy industries, and to
reflect on the wisdom of meeting
all Peking’s demands for British
heavy machinery.
“They will doubtless hear
much of the claim, advanced a
few weeks ago by the Chinese
trade-mission to Britain, that
£lOO million worth of trade,
could be done between the two
countries in the coming year
if strategic controls were
abolished ; and it will be interest-
ing if they are given a convinc-
ing account of what China could
sell to this country to balance so
large a trade. The impression
left by Mr. Tsao in London Was
that Britain would have to
accept remarkable quantities of
preserved - eggs, bristles and
feathers, at doubtfully attractive
prices.
“How does this ‘peaceful’
Government mean to use ‘the
second - largest Army in the
world,’ which it says it will aim
to build? Commander-in-Chief
Chu Teh, in his Army Day
speech, promised that Formosa
will soon be liberated. The
‘People’s Daily’ of July 23 had
already declared that ‘the
powerful Chinese people....
will never pause until this aim
is achieved.’
“The same leading article
seemed less than kind to China s
principal guest when it dis-
missed Mr. Attlee’s suggestion
of United Nations trusteeship
for Formosa as ‘putrid.’ The
Labor leaders can read for
themselves, in the July issue of
the English-language ‘People’s
China,’ that, under the new
Peking Constitution, the millions
of Chinese in Siam, Burma,
Indonesia and Malaya,
‘neglected’ by earlier Govern-
ments, will now be ‘protected’
by Mao Tse-tung’s regime.”
Various Voices
Hungarian refugee, Mrs. Geza
Kapus: “I shall be happier with
one leg in America than I would
have been with two legs in
Hungary.”
Pakistan Prime . Minister,
Mohammad Ali: “So long as
the Armies of India and
Pakistan continue to face each
other in hostility across the
cease-fire line in Kashmir, so
long as the four-million people
of Kashmir continue to be held-
down by force of arms, so long
must the peace- of Asia continue
to hang precariously by a slender
thread.”


uphill: Puff, puff, puff, puffpuff. Or if,
on the other hand, his insistent belittling
of Paterson may be felt to represent a
not wholly literary assessment. If we
want refutation we have only to turn to
Paterson himself; or if we want another
opinion perhaps that of John Manifold
might serve (as expressed in Number One
copy of “Overland,” datelined “Spring,
1954,” and claiming among its contribu-
tors Nettie Palmer, John Morrison,
Katharine Susannah Pritchard, David
Martin, Senator Donald Cameron, Eric
Lambert and Professor A. D. Hope):
In spite of his [“Banjo’s”] continuing
popularity, 1 think he is underrated today.
Carried away by his wonderful rhythmic
vigor and sharp-eyed, realistic descriptions,
we fail to realise that he expressed a coher-
ent vision of life, a philosophy deeply rooted
in his experience and that of his contem-
poraries.
Or maybe, after Mr. Palmers icy blasts,
we might warm our hands a little at the
glow of Douglas Stewart’s comment in
the introduction to Australian Bush
Ballads : —
There are many omissions in the anthology
which I regret; but none more than
Paierson’s Collected Verse, which I should
have liked to include in its entirety.
These likes and dislikes of Mr. Palmer’s
among the literary and other contem-
poraries, or acolytes, of the title-heroine
of his Legend of the Nineties have their
point in the build-up of his Myth Aus-
tralia. They make her visible as Mr.
Palmer sees her; and surely the sight of
her might well make anyone wish to con-
gratulate Mr. Palmer on achieving (or
creating) her: nothing less than a lovely
Currency Lass turned into a golden god-
dess.
Very different, it would seem, from the
visions (or versions) of George Taylor and
Arthur Jose. But then again the truth
could of course be —most likely it is—
that what we, and they, have been looking
at has not been a trio of adorable Myth
Australias of the ’Nineties, but simply
only the one, seen through the fallible
eyes of humanly different lovers. And if
George Taylor appears to love her for
this wraith of perfume you may catch
on the air still, and Arthur Jose because
of the provocative Sydneyish tilt of her
cartwheel hat, and Mr. Palmer largely
on account of her great-uncle’s shirt (as
worn at Eureka) —well, anyway, what of
it? At least she is different, and a
pleasant change, from tfe generally hor-
rific characters—Caliban fi unyip and the
rest of the spawn—who mainly mono-
polise our scant Australian mythology.
Reviewed Briefly
Freedom, Loyalty, Dissent: Henry
Steele Commager (Oxford). Essays by an
American professor on the awkward ques-
tion of how far people may be interro-
gated, deprived of jobs, and have their
writings suppressed, for having Com-
munist ideas, or for being under suspicion
of having them, or for associating with
Communists. The book exposes several
cases in America in which charges have
been made and had to be retracted ; and
considers that proof of “Guilt by Asso-
ciation,” though accepted for many
thousands of years, is illegal. Like
whether husbands should or should not
be jealous or, indeed, whether to marry
or not to marry, Professor Commager’s
problems seem to be in no danger of
immediate and satisfactory solution.
* * * *
The Darkness Under the Earth:
Norbert Casteret (Dent). The French
explorer of caves, with several books to
his name on his speciality, writes half this
book on the “Joys” of spelaeology and
half on its “Dangers”—the second half is
the more fascinating. Frenchmen, Aus-
trians, Englishmen, Italians, crawling
under rock-ledges, climbing down ropes
that reach only half-way down a 300 ft.
hole, and falling off when they come to
the end. . . the point here is that very,
very few athletes, even, can climb more
than a few feet up a rope ; and people
can become more exhausted than you
might imagine after climbing a hundred
feet or so of swaying rope —or steel-
ladder. They get lost negotiating under-
ground underwater passages, some com-
pletely full of water, and hundreds of feet
long, with torches and oxygeh-masks—
just damn’ fools, of course, but you
wouldn’t have them otherwise.
♦ ♦ * *
Ten Fathoms Deep : Arthur Catherall
(Dent). A boys’ book about a boy whose
father is a tugmaster at Singapore, involv-
ing a sea-going gang of crooks and the
mystery of a sinking ship. The author,
a “Boys’ Own Paper” storyteller, was a
staff-officer of the S.E.A.C. Air Forces
based in Malaya during World War 11,
and knows a great deal about Burma and
what interests boys.
* * * *
Brother Man : Roger Mais (Cape). This,
the publishers say, “is a story many
times repeated in the world’s history
and not yet at the end of its run.” The
cobbler, known as Brother or Bra’ Man
to his neighbors in a fetid Jamaican slum,
is a bearded member of a religious sect,
the Taferites. He is gentle and generous ;
opposed, quietly, to the evil forces about
him: the drug-peddlers, counterfeiters
and Brother Ambo, an obeah man ( obeah
is the quasi-African magic mumbo-jumbo
somewhat resembling Haitian Voodoo).
Brother Man, it soon becomes apparent,
symbolises Christ, and is inevitably cast
for betrayal and symbolic crucifixion.
The story is really a simple vehicle for
the depiction of life among a small section
of ignorant people, and within its limits
of brevity and inevitability it is a moving
book. The author has a distinctive style,
using neighborhood spoken comment
from time to time in the manner of a
chorus and snatches of local songs and
spirituals to point up episodes. He has
provided his own sombre illustrations—
crude crayon drawings, which, however,
add some force to the text.
• * « «
Raft of Despair: Ensio Tiira (Hutchin-
son). The true story of a Finnish member
of the French Legion, being shipped to
Indo-China, who deserts the ship by raft
in the Indian Ocean with one companion,
and after 32 days on this raft, which is a
small square float of metal pipe with only
crossed ropes for floor, tormented by
hunger and sunburn, harassed by
sharks, his companion dead and thrown
to the sharks, is picked up by a British
ship and taken to Singapore.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
An Artist in Love: Philip Lindsay
(Hutchinson), Dedicated to Hugh
McCrae, this novel tells the story
of 18th-century English painter
Thomas Lawrence’s unlucky love for
Sally, elder daughter of Mrs. Siddons.
Sally was the epitome of the
feminine qualities Lawrence admired;
but their secret engagement was pro-
tracted because Lawrence could never
reduce his debts, and, before the bumbling
Mr. Siddons was told of their love, the
younger Siddons girl, Maria, managed
first to infatuate and then to appear to
compromise Lawrence, and he became
betrothed to her instead. Maria played
her game with all the artfulness of a spite-
ful spoilt child —her tragic-muse mother
and her father were both enlisted on her
side; Sally suffered in noble silence.
Then, when it looked as if Maria would
die of consumption in the nick of time,
she turned even that table by extracting
unfair, but highly romantic, deathbed
promises from her sister. The author
has kept his canvas small, and the strong
central characters dominate the book
sufficiently without incidental assistance
from others.
* ♦ * *
The Children of Green Knowe: L. M
Boston (Faber). A little boy goes to stay
in an old house, where from time to
time the ghosts of children who have
lived in the house through the centuries
tell their stories. Finely produced, with
six full-page, eerie illustrations in white
on black by Peter Boston.
* * * *
The Messenger: Remy (Barker). A
novel by a famous Resistance colonel
and author, about a priest going through
the Iron Curtain to visit Polish Catholics ;
smuggled into Hungary with a Beria man
on his trail, he celebrates the Mass in
secret there, is arrested and brought before
the chief of police, who turns out to be a
former priest—the novel turns on the
struggle in the mind of the police-chief.
* * * 9
Civil War in England: Jack Lindsay
(Muller). Mr. Lindsay has written an
account of the struggle between Charles
I and the Parliament, with an extraordin-
ary last chapter on the Restoration and
the fate of the Regicides:
They had leaped over a wall, they had
gone through a troop, they were going
through a death. Their voices are still as
clear and strong as in the days of their
living and their dying.
His story, as he says, gives “some effect
of the local conflicts” and the “cross-
workings, all that is knotty, rude and
violent” that are omitted from “general
histories” ; and the illustrations are taken
from old prints. Australians will be
interested in his remarks on the “Diggers”
—“the name used by the insurrectionary
peasantry who tried to break down the
fences of the enclosures, as in the Midland
uprising of 1607”—they had a “Digger
Poet”; Robert Coster; and they sang a
song:—
The Gentry are all round, stand up now,
stand up now,
The Gentry are all round, stand up now ;
The Gentry are all round, on each side
they are found,
Their wisdom’s so profound to cheat us of
our ground,
Stand up now, stand up now.
♦ ♦ * •
Women Behind Mahatma Gandhi:
Eleanor Morton (Reinhardt). What this
book adds to such a life of Gandhi as
Louis Fischer’s is an even more careful
study of the South African period when
Gandhi, the rich young Indian lawyer,
renounced the comforts of civilisation,
and turned his home into a mutual-aid,
self-supporting community. There is a
great deal about Olive Schreiner in it;
and in latef chapters, about “Mira,” or
Madeleine Slade, daughter of a British
admiral; a London society-woman who
burned her Paris-models and in a shape-
less gown run up by her London dress-
maker arrived to be accepted as Gandhi’s
“daughter,” and member of his ashram
in India. Anyone can have Gandhi’s way
with women—you only have to be a
saint; maybe that’s the hardest thing
about being a saint.
* * * *
Christian Realism and Political Prob-
lems : Reinhold Niebuhr (Faber). Essays
and addresses by “one of the most
eminent Protestant theologians”: that on
“The Christian Witness in the Social and
National Order” was given before the
first general assembly of the World Coun-
cil of Churches at Amsterdam in 1948.
Subjects are, “Why Is Communism So
Evil?” “The Foreign Policy of American
Conservatism and Liberalism,” “Ideology
and the Scientific Method,” “Augustine’s
Political Realism,” “Love and Law in
Protestantism and Catholicism,” etc.'
* * * ♦
Africa On a Tightrope: Henry Gibbs
(Jarrolds). A survey of racial and political
problems in present-day South Africa. If
it is hard to read it is because of the
turmoil and confusion of South African
ideas, which defy simplification if they
are to be accurately reported, and because
of the hopelessness of any easy solution.
There are also remarks on the Mau-Mau.
With 26 photographs.
* * * ♦
Sent to His Account: Eilis Dillon
(Faber). A poor little ageing boarding-
house dweller is made the heir of his rich
cousin, who leaves him a mansion and an
Irish village out from Dublin. The man-
sion was in the hands of a sinister house-
keeper, the cousin’s sister had been
banished to the little lodge; and a
parvenu interloper was threatening to
shame the village with a night-club. He
became the murder-victim. The village is
charmingly done and, with the strangely
satisfying presentation of a hero who
sustains our sympathy though long past
love-making, makes up for some rather
drowsy detection.
* * * *
Rebel Heiress: Robert Neill (Hutchin-
son). A really good yarn of adventure
and romance set in Restoration England.
Richard Carey and Giles Orton are two
young Cavalier exiles returning to their
neighboring estates, which had been con-
fiscated by Cromwellian supporters, and
both find difficulties of differing sorts
attached to what had seemed a fairly
simple project. The author shows some
of the problems which arose as after-
math of civil war, but the history,
though reasonably authentic, is subsidiary
to a good, strong plot which does not
hesitate to make successful use of several
old devices —highwaymen, innkeepers’
daughters, secret-passages and frolics on
the village green. Written for adults, it
would also suit adolescent boys and
girls.
* ♦ * ♦
A Month in Paris: Mrs. Robert Henrey
(Dent). This Frenchwoman who writes
in English here gives a rather breath-
less account of a post-war stay in her
native city: frothy, artless, but entertain-
ing, especially if read a few chapters at a
time. She meets an enormous variety of
people—in markets, famous shops and
small shops, among her family’s friends;
dines and wines with celebrities; buys
clothes and shoes and scarves ; visits fam-
ous hospitals with famous surgeons, and
does not forget the art-galleries, theatres
and monuments to various writers. All
described minutely in an intensely femin-
ine manner which might irritate male
readers, but should entertain all but the
most sternly unfrivolous of females.
* * * *
For Worse: Angela Jeans (Faber).
Novel about the trials of an arty-crafty
young couple who leave their farm (its
reclamation was apparently the subject
of a previous book by the same author)
to renovate an old house in London. Why
the whining first-person narrator’s play-
wright husband didn’t leave her for his
attractive blonde will remain a complete
mystery to this reader.
♦ * ♦ «
Danger Is My Life: Victor Berge
(Hutchinson). A Swedish boy of sixteen
sails before the mast; to Australia ; then,
pearling, around the Pacific, over Conrad’s
territory, meeting characters Conrad
would have delighted to use, from Chung-
ko the Chinese trader to the Japanese
of War 11. But the book is nothing like
anything Conrad ever wrote, although it
wouldn’t be difficult to imagine some of
Conrad’s characters writing—or, more
probably, telling—such a book. There is
the simplicity, the often irritating spare-
ness, of tales told by men of action.
Nothing much is made of potentially
wonderful situations and characters, and
probably the author never could make
anything of them. His trade is not writ-
ing, but providing the material for writing.
All of which gives the title more authen-
ticity than one has a right to expect in
these deceitful times. Good photographs.
♦ • ♦ *
The Wild Honey : Victoria Lincoln
(Faber). Well-written short stories set
in America, but relying little on external
accidents of place—each is an explora-
tion of its characters. The tales are not
precisely character - sketches; though
somewhat static they possess a sort of
plot, but the events leading to or arising
from crises are only momentous because
of the nature of the people written about.
The little girl in “Morning Wishes” is
born to rebel against the harsh religiosity
and social backwardness of her sect. If a
combination of friendships, frivolous gifts
and sudden awareness of the tragedies
implicit in the fives of some of the adults
of her community had not occurred to
produce that rebellion during the time
written of, her decision would have come,
quite certainly, from some other chance
mixture of circumstances. “Morning, a
Week Before the Crime” is the cleverest
story in the book —everything leading up
to a sordid tragedy in a wealthy family
is presented. It is left to the reader to
guess exactly what form of resolution the
characters will take to solve the pro-
blems of their unbearable situation. One
of the main excellences of these tales is
that, without any obscurity of style or
effort to present “problem pieces,” the
author leaves the reader to do a certain
amount of thinking and interpretation
for himself.
* * * *
Cousin Jan : Antonia Ridge (Faber).
Warm, whimsical, delightful book: a
sequence of episodes, linked by “Cousin
Jan,” in the lives and events of an inter-
national family—English, French and
German, they shared with their Dutch
relatives a wonderful grandmother, Oraa,
who lived in Amsterdam. When her nine
grandchildren were youngsters Oma in-
vited them all to stay , with her one sum-
mer, and Cousin Jan, the German boy,
emerged as the leader in all their scrapes
and adventures. The English narrator
traces his life—his visits to her family
in England; his feckless wanderings in
search of the perfect job in Europe; his
experiences in the Dutch Underground
during the war, and the black time when
he was forced to serve as an unwilling
conscript in the German Army because
refusal would not only have meant per-
sonal retribution but the removal to
labor-camps of all his Dutch relatives.
Antonia Ridge can tell good stories well,
with humor that never becomes arch and
pathos that never becomes stickily senti-
mental. Cousin Jan is one of those
“sports” of books that have an appeal
both for older children and adults of all
ages. The stories were originally broad-
cast in the 8.8. C. “Woman’s Hour,” but
their interest is by no means exclusively
feminine ; neither should readers be put
off by the blurb to the effect that “you
just read and laugh and feel better.”
Cousin Jan is not a bromide but a charm-
ingly subtle piece of writing.


SIMPLEX 1,000-WATT
32-VOLT, WATER-COOLED
HOME LIGHTING SET
Powered by Simplex 3-
4 h.p., four-stroke petrol
engine, water-cooled with
tank, running at 1,100
r.p.m. Heavy-duty, ball-
bearing generator driven by
vee belts. Engine has roller
main bearings, precision
governor and impulse starter
magneto. Complete with wall-
mounting instrument panel.
Exempt horn Sales Tax if for home
lighting or agricultural use.
Batteries extra, 155 amp. hr. or 225 amp. hr.
capacity, quoted on request.
HARDMAN AND HALL
161 MISSENDEN ROAD, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
£175
INSURANCE -—for your protection
LTD.
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON,
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Sony.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £16,000,000. Established 1835.
M c \\r Rpancii* 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
i_ DW)mi N.S.W Branch, be u W. J. C. PENNELL. Manager.
Telephone BW 8131 (4 lines) J _____
I
W» 4
Holden is Australia's most popular car because .
Holden is Australia’s
Finest Value!
More people buy Holden than any other
car model because most car buyers
think Holden is Australia’s finest value.
We think that you’ll agree when you
consider how much more you get for
your money in a Hoiden. v,
Australia’s Own Car is the only car that
offers you this ideal combination • 6
cylinder performance at the lowest PJtce
• 30 m.p.g. economy as reported by
owners * 6 passenger roominess at the
lowest price • Dependability proven in
the hands of more than 150,000 owners.
• High resale value.
Proof that Holden offers 30 m.p.g.
economy with big car power comes
from owners like Mr.
L. J. Smith, theatre
manager, of Ipswich,
• Convenient hire
arrangements are
through G.M.A.C. ■
Motors’ own hire
company.
purchase
available
- General
purchase
ifnf,
HOLDEN*
Australia's Own Car
*Registered Trade Mark
Queensland, who says : “The mileage
registered to date is 45,000. All road
conditions have been traversed between
Adelaide and Rockhampton . . . average
petrol consumption is still 31\ miles
per gallon. ,,
Add to all these better-value features
the low cost and ready availability of
Holden factory guaranteed parts, and
service. It is the combination of many
advantages that makes Holden Aus-
tralia’s most popular car . . . the
finest value you can buy. Your Holden
Dealer will be happy to prove it to you.
Call in soon and see him. In view of
the very heavy demand for “ New-Look ”
Holden Sedans and Utilities we suggest
that you place your
order as soon as
possible.
• There are two Air Chief car
radios specially designed for
Holden. E24C
SEDAN LIST PRICES from £B7O plus tax
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Photograph of Henry Lawson from
magazine or newspaper wanted by
schoolchild engaged on school project.
—5883.
To buy copy of The Scarlet Tree by
Osbert Sitwell. —5882.
To buy loose copies of The
Bulletin during the 1914-18 war,
complete set if possible. —sBBs.
To buy copy of Poems, 1951
(Penguin edition) containing Prize
Poems submitted for the Festival of
Britain. —5886.
Australian family, three adults, two
children, wants furnished cottage or
flat, Sydney, permanent tenancy.
5887.
Words of old song dealing with
the doings of a character named
Demetrius O’Flannagan McCarthy.
5888.
Whereabouts of Robert Johnston
(or his descendants) who left Wigton,
Cumberland, for South Australia m
1900. Niece inquiring. (Reply direct
to Mrs. Margaret Thirlwell, The Tem-
perance, Mallbankgate, Cumberland,
England.)
Library wants copies of Central
Stores by Vicki Baum, Wide House
by Taylor Caldwell, Lisbeth and Cleo-
patra by Rider Haggard, Tusks and
Ivory by Stuart Cloete, If Ever I Cease
to Love by Frances Parkinson Keyes,
and plays by Oscar Wilde. —5884.
To buy copy of The Lore of the
Lyre Bird by Ambrose Pratt. (Reply
direct to Miss Ethel M. Matheson,
2241 Durant-avenue, Berkeley 4, Cali-
fornia, U.S.A.)
Information Sought
Who originated the name of Anzac ?
The name “Australian and New
Zealand Army Corps” being two
cumbrous, especially for telegrams,
Major C. M. Wagstaff, then on the
“operations” section of General Bird-
wood’s staff, suggested that a simple
code-name was required for the corps.
One of the clerical staff on Corps
H.Q., then at Shepheard’s Hotel,
Cairo (generally believed to be Lieut.
A. T. White, R.A.S.C.), suggested
the word “Anzac.” Major Wagstatt
accordingly passed this suggestion on
to the General, who approved of it.
» * ♦ ♦
Description and habits of a bird
known as the shining starling?
The shining starling is a spring and
summer visitor to the Northern Pern-
tory and northern Queensland from
Papua and the Moluccas. It is a
dark-colored bird with glossy plum-
age reflecting purple and green
metallic tints and with a bright reel
eye ; it is noisy and sociable in its
habits, and feeds on scrub-fiuits.
Large numbers of nests are con-
structed on the branches of a single
tree, which is sometimes covered
with them. The nests are large oval
structures, with the entrance at tne
side, suspended by a tapering P° r 'T°s|"
The two or three eggs are blinsn-
grey, with reddish markings, chiefly at
the larger end.
* * * ♦
(/) Some information on James
Rutherford, of Cobb and Co. fame.
(2) Where to find further information
about him ?
(1) Born at Erie (New York, U.S.A )
on Aug. 22, 1827, he arrived in Mel-
bourne in June, 1852, and worked
the Bendigo goldfields. Unsuccessful
there, he turned to woodcutting, and
in 1853 went on holiday to Brisbane.
He returned overland to Melbourne,
interesting himself on the way m
horse-dealing and studying the
countryside; in 1857 he acquired a
interest in Cobb and Co., which had
been founded in 1853 by four other
Americans. In Rutherford s hands the
business went ahead rapidly; he
reorganised and extended the Victorian
services and secured a monopoly of
the mail-contracts. In June, 1862,
following the Lambing Flat gold-rush,
the business was extended to Bathurst
(N.S.W.), which remained for 5U
years the head-office of the firm. In
1865 the business was further extended
to Queensland, and by 1870 the co.
was harnessing 6000 horses each uay
and the coaches were travelling 28,000
miles a week. Rutherford lived at
Bathurst from 1862; he bought several
station properties which he managed
himself and, in J I f 73 v Wlt £ v K°nt
Sutherland, founded the Esk bank
ironworks at Lithgow. In his eighties
he continued to supervise his stations,
and he died (at Mackay, Q., on Sept.
13, 1911) while returning from inspect-
ing his Queensland properties. (2) See
Dictionary of Australian Biography,
by Serle, A History of the Coaching
Firm of Cobb and Co., by William
Lees, and “Sydney Morning Herald,
Sept. 14, 1911.
* * * *
Details concerning statues of CO
Capt. Charles Sturt and (2) John
McDouall Stuart, both in Victoria-
square, Adelaide ? Names of sculptors,
of what material are the statues,
including pedestal, who’ erected them,
who paid for them and when were
they unveiled ?
(1) The sculptor was J. White. The
figure is of Carrara marble, from a
plaster model by W. J. Maxwell. The
pedestal is of Sydney trachyte designed
by the sculptor, and erected by W.
Torode. It was paid for by public
subscription and presented by me
Caledonian Society. It was unveiled
on June 4, 1904. (2) The sculptor
was Capt. Adrian Jones and the figure
is of bronze. The pedestal is of
Murray Bridge granite and Angaston
marble. It was erected by C. n.
Morgan, paid for by public subsonp-
tion and unveiled on December 21,
1916.
Brief Answers
A.R.H.; (1) Pipis, or ugaries as
they are known in Queensland, are
not identical with the clams used m
“clam-bakes” in the United States,
but they are related to them. (2)
They may be preserved in brine oy
removing them from the shell, placing
them in a jam-jar for about 2 horns,
and then adding about 4 tablespoon-
fuls of common salt, mixing well, ine
jar should be reversed every tew
weeks.... JR. : 425. (sterling) from
H.M. Stationery Office, London....
E.L.: Write Queensland Cane
Growers’ Council, A.M.P. Building,
corner Queen and Edward-streels,
Brisbane J.H.McK.: Write T -
Nettlefold and Sons Pty., 619
Elizabeth-street, Redfern (N-S-WJ,
who have an agency for en-tout-cas
tennis-courts W.P.M.: Write I
dustrial Public Relation Service (Aus-
tralia), 66 Bathursc-street, Sydney....
Q L • Write The Housing Commis-
sion’of N.S.W., Mint Budding Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney.. ..Ruth A.G..
The words of General Douglas Mac-
Arthur quoted are from his famous
“I shall return” speech; it was de-
livered on March 17, 1944, at a dmne
tendered to the General :’Sa-
House, Canberra, by Federal. Pama
ment to mark the second anniversa y
of his arrival in Australia. The then
Prime Minister (Mr. Gurhn),
Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Men
/iesl and the Country-party Leader
(Mr Fadden) all spoke to the toast
to MacArthur. The General also
said on that occasion : I cannot ted
you the sense of distinction I feel m
being Australia’s guest tonight. «
adds" another link to the long cham
of friendship which binds together
our peoples and our .Countries. It
a symbol of that unity of effort that
recognises but one indomitable pur-
pose-victory. Two years ago when
I landed on your soil, I said to the
people of the Philippines, whence 1
came, T shall return.’ Toniglff \
repeat those words ‘lshall return.
Earlier that day (Mar. 17, 1944)
MacArthur had received from the
Governor-General, Lord Gowne, the
insignia of the Knight Grand Cross
of the Most Honorable Order of the
Bath, as expression of the K»ng»
gratitude and admiration and m
recognition of. gallant and dis-
tinguished service... -HJ.H.. ine
hearing before the High Court of the
application of eight Australian and
three British trading-banks to restrain
the Commonwealth Government from
proceeding, under the Banking Act,
1947, to nationalise the banking-
system began on Feb. 9, 1948, and
concluded on April 15, 1948. On
Aug. 11 the same year the court
delivered its judgment, declaring many
sections of the Act invalid and thus
making it inoperative. The Cniney
Government appealed to the Privy
Council, but its appeal was dismissed
by the judicial committee of the
Privy Council (July 26, 1949). In
B. 18 /8 / ’4B the High Court judgment
was welcomed as a “heavy and
thoroughly deserved knock” for
“Socialism and the ‘pushing-round of
the people which has become a feature
of Chifleyism.” Also, in B. 18/2/ 48
a “Plain English” article “Evatt v.
Evatt” pointed to Evatt, while on the
High Court and giving judgment in
the case of N.S.W.. v. the Common-
wealth in 1932, accusing the Com-
monwealth Government of being
“plaintiff, judge and executor ” which
roles he was then endeavoring to nil
himself in the case of bank-nation-
alisation. Have no record of the other
article on Evatt you mention... .1.5.:
(1) Unable to give an exact estimate
or comparison. There are different
types of universities in each country;
some countries have more than one
type. Most of the older universities
of Europe began as “church universi-
ties” ; licences to schools (which
developed in time into universities)
were first given by the chancellor
scholasticus or some other officer of a
cathedral church. (Most have since
lost their clerical character.) (2)
British universities are privately en-
dowed, but do receive capital grants
from the State. Australian universi-
ties, as are those of most other
Dominions, are self-governing aca-
demic corporations (in this respect like
most British universities); but all are
“State” universities, established by
Act of Parliament. (3) Many of the
big American universities (Harvard,
Yale, Princeton, Columbia, etc.) owe
their origin to private initiaUve and
are privately controlled. Ihe 19tn
century saw the growth of the State
tax-supported universities. By
all States south and west of Pennsyl-
vania had established such universities,
and only a few States now do not
have such universities. Their dis-
tinguishing features are (a) creation
and direct support by the State
Government, (6) absence of any de-
nominational control, ( c ) the State
has a share in the selection of trus-
tees, (d) free, or nominal, tuition to
students living within the State. (V
As far as we know, there is no dif-
ference in the degrees awarded by
the various types of ’varsity....
A.8.W.: Mustard-gas was so named
by the British troops during World
War I because of its odor. Called also
dichloroethyl sulphide yperite, and,
from the German shell marking,
yellow-cross liquid. It was made by
the reaction of ethylene with sulphui
monochloride... .T.F.: The verse is
“A Word to Texas Jack,” by Henry
Lawson. Verse will be found in his
book, Verses, Popular and Humorous.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.J.S.: Your balloonist belongs to
another age... .T.H.G.: Not keen on
stories presented in the form of a
series of letters... .J.T.S. : Your
chicken-hearted lover is rushing head-
long home.... A.E.: Damsel who
was soaked to the skin is now drying
out in the basket 8.Y.W.:
“Mum’s Christmas Cake” was a little
too doughy... .L.P.: Consigned to the
tomb where all such stories go
O A.A.: You ask us too often to
“Look!” “Behold!” “See!” “Mark!”
and “Lo and Behold!” W.S.:
You take too long to come to the
point....T.K.: It would take more
than “a grain of salt” to swallow
that J.McA.: In the opinion of
the office oat it could never have
happened M.A.: Can’t your hero
do something more than nod his
head and murmur a word or two of
assent? .•. .L. 8.: “If I may jog your
memory you once rejected the en-
closed.” Memory jogged, rejected a
second time... .R.N.D.: “A Thiet
in the Night” was escorted from the
premises... .E.K.: That “flight of
fancy” doesn’t fly very high or very
far C.McL.: It could hardly have
been rendered more unintelligible.
S.P.: Afraid that you will have
to unbosom yourself elsewhere
J.McM.: Doesn’t O’Grady do any-
thing else but spend his time swear-
ing “by all the saints in the calendar ?
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
R.P.W.: That’s one baby that
we decline to h01d... There is
too much padding in that yarn....
A. You begin by saying ‘To
make a long story short,” then go
on for at least 10,000 words
J.E.P.: Sorry, but we don’t like
people whispering in our ears....
B. : Put that tale on the shelf and
drop all ideas of becoming a writer
until you have had more experience
of life and have learned to observe
the world about you G.G.: As
soon as we heard the cry “Yoiks.
Tally-ho!” we knew that it was not
for us A.H.Q.: You might as
well pour water into a sieve
S.A.N.; “You, you vile, shabby,
scurvy, low-down, scrubby, lousy,
stinking wretch,” shouted Marion to
her husband. We gathered that she
didn’t like him....C.D.: Let those
sleeping dogs 1ie....L.G.: Just
another young man crossed in love.
A.S.B.: Not wanting any “fiend
in human shape” stalking through
these pages O S.: Nor are we m
the market for vampires, werewolves
or ghouls.... V.R.i Heroine who
resembled a “dying duck in a thun-
derstorm” is hardly for our columns.
p.F.: “I can be comic or tragic,
roguish or earnest, sportive or
solemn.” Yes, but can you write/
J.H.O’B.: That plot has seen
better days.


See the Grazcos Farmers’ Hoy Display at
Melbourne Royal Show.
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Plough attached
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series 11, Mark XII, 11 h.p. Villiers
Engine. Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 2
Hoeing blades, lOin. Tool-bar, 3 universal standards,
and power take-off.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit
for Almost Every Purpose
N
Rotary Scythe Rotary Hoe Sawbench
Paspalum
I guillotined 1
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney. BW 4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St., Melbourne MU 8551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd.. 443 Adelaide St.. Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND Ltd., 115 York St, Launceston.
Launceston 2645; and 167 Murray St., Hobart. B 2264.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Lawnmowe t
Cutter Bar
Other attachments include: —
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR for inflating
tyres. Spray-painting, etc. FURROWER,
TRAILER. DUSTER, DISC HAEROWb,
GENERATOR for hole-boring, lighting, etc.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to year nearest State
Distributor)
j Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS’
J ROY” and ACCESSORIES.
| Name
J Address
I
J
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
"MEN OF THE LAND"
Militat Plantation,
Madang, David Pether-
bridge, of Sydney, there with the
2/4 Armored Regiment, A.1.F.,
opened a Bulletin dated July
4, 1945. On the Red Page somp
7-point type caught his eye; —-
A sensitive plant such as the
Mimosa pudica recoils at the
touch of a man’s hand, transmit-
ting shock effects along different
nervous channels or, when grow-
ing in the wild, it escapes danger
from grazing cattle, for with a
touch of their foot it becomes
invisible to them, sinking down in
the grass until threat of danger
has passed.
What actually happens, David
explained in The Bulletin
office the other day, is that at
first contact the leaves fold up ;
then the stem folds against the
stalk ; and then the plant col-
lapses on the ground, presenting
a thorny surface to any investi-
gatory nose. The plant grew at
Madang, where, they calculated,
it took five minutes for it to
resume an erect position after
a man had walked through it—
a fact of some military import-
ance.
The quotation was from
Richard St. Barbe Baker’s book
/ Planted Trees, and David
Petherbridge is hon. sec. of Men
of the Land, a society which has
recently come into existence,
with the rather ambitious object
of doing something about our
land problems; the two are
related.
It wasn’t until apres la guerre,
in 1948, that he read the book,
and became interested in soil-
conservation, afforestation and
the like. He wrote to the author,
and is now a Fellow of the
English association Men of the
Trees. He went to the N.S.W.
Soil Conservation people and
asked questions, and made a
number of surveys, seeking the
answers to such questions as;
What has been done in soil-
conservation in N.S.W., (a) by
Government departments, ( b ) by
private individuals?
What finance is available for
this work?
What percentage of farmers
and graziers make use of the
facilities that are available?
He asked other questions,
drawing for material on State
Conservation Services, the
Forestry Commission, the
Commonwealth Statistician, and
the like ; also private persons.
There is a good deal of com-
monsense in his scheme, in
which he now has distinguished
collaborators—the kernel of the
new society, Men of the Land.
What he did was put propositions
to a number of people ; some
were rejected or amended, others
were added. The winnowed re-
sults may be summarised as
follows;
1. That problems of conserva-
tion and proper land use are too
big for Government activity
alone.
2. Although many land-
holders tackle their own prob-
lems, there is still a great deal
of work left untouched.
3. The city man, who is com-
pletely dependent on the land
(although he may not always be
aware of it) has little knowledge
of its problems ; or, given some
knowledge, usually lacks an
effective means of doing any-
thing constructive.
4. There is need for an
organisation to pursue, by edu-
cation, publicity and activity, in
city and country, objects relat-
ing to development, conservation
and proper land use.
5. Such a society could per-
form its best function by ulti-
mately having Australia-wide
influence.
These objects agreed on, the
society came into existence. The
president is Mr. Justice Weir,
a former N.S.W. Minister of
Conservation. Foundation-mem-
bers include Lieut.-General Sir
Frank Berryman, Alderman
P. D. Hills (Lord Mayor of
Sydney), Brigadier D. Mac-
arthur Onslow, E. A. Southee,
Jocelyn Henderson, Sir Garfield
Barwick —in fact, a string of
names of some distinction and
representing a variety of
interests.
Petherbridge says he can
claim no missionary success
with a good many of these
early members, since it was
a matter of preaching to
the already converted. Sir
Frank Berryman’s and Miss
Jocelyn Henderson’s interest in
trees, for instance, is fairly well
known. It is not so well known,
perhaps, that General Richard-
son (another foundation-mem-
ber, who recently passed on)
was a member of the American
organisation Friends of the
Land. From the interlocking
of experience of various mem-
bers the constitution was ham-
mered out.
The points given above are
condensations. Regarding point
1, Petherbridge makes the com-
ment that Government depart-
ments, within limits imposed by
finance available, are doing a
good job. At the same time, it
is felt that it is neither practicable
nor, perhaps, in the long run,
wise (assuming Governments
were prepared to shoulder the
entire burden) to leave every-
thing to Governments. It is
national work in which everyone
who is willing and able should
lend a hand. Also, there is a
need for liaison between certain
Government departments and
the public.
Point 2, although temperately
worded, is almost painfully
clear. Point 3 is interesting in
its basic statement, and, too, in
the last sentence. It is surpris-
ing the number of city men one
meets who have an interest in
the land—for instance, David
Petherbridge; and, scratching
below the surface a bit, one finds
in many a city family links with
the land.
Petherbridge points out that
there is a lot of potential good-
will, wealth and technical know-
how in the cities of Australia,
but no effective instrumentality
for applying this to the problems
of the land. He qualified that
bit; there are such organisations,
but, up till now, the help has been
given piecemeal. There is need
for something more ambitious.
Point 5, he says, was the con-
tribution of another member.
It is proposed that groups
be formed in different States,
with some sort of loose
This erosion-gully was caused by overcropping, on particularly
good wheat country.
(N.S.W. Soil Conservation Service Photograph.)
affiliation. Anything in the
nature of a centralised control
is to be discouraged, but, in the
meantime, since the society is
just starting, intending members,
wherever they live, are invited
to send their subscription (£1
per annum for adults ; 10s. p.a.
for under-21’s ; £5 p.a. for com-
panies and £lO for life-member-
ship) to the secretary, Crystal-
street, Petersham, Sydney.
The task is a big and complex
one, and the new society hopes
to get the co-operation of many
organisations, and, in turn, hopes
to be able to helpmany of them
with specific problems.
Looking at it from the out-
side, there seem to be lions in
the path. Turning over the files
of The Bulletin one finds many
articles by contributors and edi-
torials on soil-conservation and
the like; until, one would
imagine, little remained to be
said. And yet, in N.S.W., 60
per cent, of the land is subject
to soil-erosion. In Australia we
have only 5 per cent, of land
area under forest compared with
33 per cent, in the United States
and 25 per cent, in France.
But, looked at from another
angle, these facts indicate that
something on a large scale
should be attempted at least.
J.F.
Copper and Cobalt
“Billjim”: To counter cop-
per- and cobalt-deficiences in
cattle and sheep regular drench-
ing is the best method. Make
the drench from lOoz. copper-
sulphate, 2oz. cobalt-chloride
and |gal. water. Add \ pint of
this solution to pints water.
Give this to stock each week
for a few months at half fluid
ounce per sheep and four fluid
ounces for a full-grown cow,
with smaller doses for younger
animals.
Top-dressing is more to deal
with the problem over a long
range. Copper-sulphate is used
at 51b. to 101 b. per acre, and
cobalt-chloride at 4oz. to 21b.
per acre every five to seven
years. Stock should not have
access to treated areas until
after rain has fallen.
Drinking-water can be treated
advantageously by adding \ pint
of a solution of lOoz. copper-
sulphate, soz. cobalt and Igal.
water to every 400 gals. water.
Don’t place this mixture in an
iron tank or trough.
Inoculated
Clover-seed
“Rhizobium”: It is true that
both calcium and phosphorus
play important parts in the
mineral nutrition of nodule-
forming bacteria on legumes
(B. 18/8/ ’54).
On sowing of inoculated
clover-seed, advice is being given
from some official quarters in
Australia that such seed should
not be mixed with acid super,
unless the seed-fertiliser mixture
is sown immediately, but that
inoculated seed can safely be
mixed with a lime-super, mixture
some time before sowing.
There is danger in the latter
part of that advice.
It is difficult to see how the
agricultural lime of today can
neutralise the acidity of the
super, without chemical action
occurring between them. This
lime is calcium-carbonate and is
highly insoluble. In any case,
little or no chemical action can
take place in a mixture of dry
powders. Even in moist soil,
ground limestone goes into solu-
tion very slowly. Meanwhile,
the acid phosphate of super, in
such soil has already changed to
dicalcic phosphate and is then
unharmful to the bacteria.
This correction of the official
faux-pas does not, however, ren-
der unnecessary the application
of lime as well as phosphates
for inoculated legumes on some
soils.
Farm Hints
“Beejay”: In unfavorable dry-
ing weather development of
mould on drying-trays causes
considerable loss. This can be
offset if the trays are thoroughly
scrubbed each year prior to use,
and dipped in a sterilising solu-
tion consisting of lib. Shirlan
W.S. in 20gals. water. Keep the
dip well agitated.
“Heatwave”: Divided mer-
cury in a thermometer can be
rejoined by holding the bulb
over a slow heat. Run the mer-
cury up the tube, remove from
heat and hold the thermometer
in an upright position until the
mercury fully recedes. Slight
tapping with the fingers will
assist in the rejoining.
“Ann”: If you have bad luck
with chickens, before blaming
the hatcheryman or the feed,
check-up to see if you are mak-
ing one of these common
errors: Overcrowding, lack of
sunlight, insanitary conditions,
draughts or lack of space. A
little thought and the condi-
tions under which chicks are
being raised can often be
improved.
“Feathertip”: A most
important part of a fowl’s
anatomy is the oil-pimple near
the “parson’s nose.” From it, by
means of the beak, oil is distri-
buted among and on top of the
feathers. This aids growth and
positioning of the feathers, and
imparts sheen, all of which adds
comfort and satisfaction to the
bird. Food of an oily nature,
such as linseed, given to growing
fowls will help the good work.


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage* of eewerage ue
Matter where you r home may he.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
Nv
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it I
The treated sterile sewerage !•
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established £5 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
‘DISTRIBUTORS; ~
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St.. Sydney-
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’iand), Saunders Houfee, 116
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd.. 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Build-
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd.. 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Diasol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Rafiles Place.
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
, ETC.
NO FLIES
EMPTYING
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
I
Os
CM-
b oH«
til.
4
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular* gladly roppMad—
Writ* to DAVIS GiLATINEs G.PO fcr IS«».
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Bar 4051. MELBOURNE • GA.O.
Bar 712 F. ADELAIDE • 6.P.0. Bor 7BBK. BRISBANE
• S.P.O Bar 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Bns ane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The Inveterate
Wheatgrower
'T'HERE is an H. G. Wells
A story about a scientist who
evolved a theory that the earth
was an immense animate organ-
ism. To prove it he drilled a
hole deeper than had ever been
drilled before, through all the
hard outer layers, until he
reached the sensitive inner core,
when the earth suddenly and
most sensationally screamed,
and otherwise manifested its dis-
pleasure by erupting at all its
volcanoes, spouting from all its
geysers; and writhing m a
manner that caused the sky-
scrapers to totter and tidal-
waves to roll across the oceans.
Perhaps it would be a good
thing if the earth could express,
in a dramatic and unmistakeable
manner, its hostility to those
who do it irreparable harm. Not
deep-drillers, or open-cut miners,
or tin-dredgers, whose opera-
tions are confined to strictly
limited areas of the earth s sur-
face, but certain of our Aus-
tralian agriculturists; particu-
larly one-track-minded wheat-
growers.
Admitted that many wheat-
growers have evolved a wheat-
and-sheep routine not altogether
harmful to the soil. But there
are also, in N.S.W. alone, many
hundreds of farmers who live
only to grow wheat, to tear up
the land again and to grow more
crops of . wheat. And this
despite the well-known and
widely publicised fact that single-
cropping with wheat is one of
the practices most ruinous to
the soil.
There seems to be no concep-
tion among many farmers that
ownership of land, as well as
being a means of making a live-
lihood, involves a definite moral
obligation to preserve that land
for future generations. Often it
is only where land has been in
the hands of one family for
generations that we see con-
scientious attempts being made
to repair the ravages of the first
occupiers. Perhaps it takes three
generations on the one holding
before any genuine love and
understanding of the soil can be
developed.
In England, where there is a
fine tradition of good farming,
there is such an abiding con-
sciousness of the importance of
soil-fertility that it is the prac-
tice to measure it in exact terms
its ue * h “
termßanges hands■ ; »
toe war when. strong
inducements were
wheat and no mefn pressure
put on them by Govern-
was put on
mittees, and § by their own
patriotism, they still resisted
attempts to make them depart,
even temporarily, from their
soil-preserving crop rotations.
To them nothing was so im-
portant as the preservation of
their land. This was the great
moral issue, transcending all
others.
Compare this attitude with
that of a farmer of my acquaint-
ance, whose wife complained to
me thus:
“We can’t understand why it
is ; my husband always buys the
best farm in any new district we
go to, but after only a few years
the gutters come. Then we have
to sell out and buy a new farm
because he can’t stand wasting
time dodging round the gutters
with his tractors.”
The gutters come, mark you,
not as a result of her husband’s
voracious farming, but as though
some malignant fate were pur-
suing him. Woeful ignorance?
Wilful blindness? Whatever it
is, there is no way I can discover
of impressing this sort of man.
He is a mechanised wheatfarmer,
designed for and dedicated to
that purpose alone; with no
more conscience than a robot.
Yet this is the sort of land-
owner who is highly thought of
in his community, particularly
in the towns. The big wheat-
grower is a good customer of
all the businessmen, with his
constant demands for bigger,
stronger and more destructive
machines ; land-agents like his
habit of frequently selling-out
and buying new properties, be-
cause it means big commissions
for them. He is enterprising;
he is ambitious. He gets out
while the going is good. Eventu-
ally, like the rest of his type, he
will go to that new paradise of
the wheatgrower, the north-west
of the State, where the land is
so rich that he will be able to
grow a wheat crop every year
and never need to apply any fer-
tiliser. Riverina’s loss will be
the north-west’s gain is the judg-
ment that will be ringing in his
ears as he leaves. Nobody is
likely to suggest that in a more
enlightened community he would
be publicly sacrificed to Ceres,
goddess of good harvests, at the
annual fertility festival.
Soil Conservation officers and
the more thoughtful landowners
are worried about men of this
character. That “they’ll learn
in time” is the most optimistic
remark one hears about them.
But it would be unrealistic to
expect them, of their own
accord, to adopt a more en-
lightened attitude before per-
manent harm is done to large
areas of country. It is not even
to be expected that authority
will put pressure on them to
make them mend their ways ; the
exploitive type of farming means
cheap bread for the multitudes
in the cities, and Governments
which depend for their existence
on urban votes are not likely to
interfere with a system which,
at the worst, will not break down
under its own inherent evils
during their lifetime.
The only hope would appear
to be that slowly a sense of
moral responsibility towards the
land, or even a real love of it,
will become general in the com-
munity. Even now we hear
quite a lot from people who
allege that they love the country,
though it is generally for what
the country can give them in a
freer, open-air life, or better
health, say, or increased wealth.
Sometimes, indeed, characters in
our Australian fiction take up a
handful of good Australian soil
and become most emotional
about it, though I have yet to
see a landowner doing it in real
life.
What is needed is an entirely
new attitude; a sense of dedica-
tion to the restoration of our
land. And this may come with
a new and more understanding
generation, as it has come to the
older agriculture of other lands.
In the meantime, whatever
can be done in the way of
indoctrination of the young in
rural schools and agricultural
colleges should be well worth
while. Youth is capable of noble
enthusiasms. I have seen it with
pleasure in the young cadets of
the Soil Conservation Service.
The steady spreading of wisdom
from this source is our best hope
for the future.
E. O. Schlunke.
Prunes
“Big Billy”: Prunes should be
fully ripe before harvesting.
Cultivate the area just before
the operation is carried out to
bring the soil to a fine tilth. In
irrigation areas, land should be
readied for any irrigation neces-
sary.
Place sheets under the trees
and help the fruit drop by lightly
shaking the branches. Pick up
at frequent intervals, as dropped
fruit will deteriorate rapidly.
This is particularly so with the
Robe variety. In good weather
D’Agens may be left for four or
five days. If bad weather inter-
venes, harvest at short intervals
to reduce spoilage to a mini-
mum.
To dry, stack fruit until it has
wilted before exposing to the
direct rays of the sun. If this is
not done much of the juice will
be lost by “boiling” in the hot
weather. Robe prunes being par-
ticularly susceptible. In cool or
cloudy weather these precautions
can be dispensed with.
When spreading trays see that
the sides are in a north-south
position. Protect the trays
against rain, and when fruit is
two-thirds dry, or sufficiently dry
to handle, spread in a compact
layer, one fruit deep, on sheets
of Sisalkraft until drying is com-
pleted.
Pasture Seed
“Mia”: High cost of sub.-
clover, phalaris, irrigation white-
clover and other pasture-seed
should induce farmers to harvest
seed from their own acres, says
Jim Jessup, agronomist, Mur-
rumbidgee Irrigation Area Agri-
cultural Service.
On the M.1.A., where expan-
sion of irrigated pastures to
100,000 acres is likely in the near
future, some farmers are already
taking Jessup’s advice.
After going twice over a five-
acre paddock of sub.-clover,
Norman Taylor, Leyton, secured
six bags of first- and six bags of
second-grade seed. Even then a
substantial quantity remained for
the taking.
Seed should be harvested from
well - established pastures in
which sub.-clover is dominant;
this plant’s habit of setting a big
proportion of seed below surface
calls for a departure from
ordinary harvesting methods. As
rank stands give decreased
yields, controlled grazing in
autumn, winter or early spring
is advisable. Otherwise top-
growth should be reduced by
mowing, raking and removal
from the area. To be efficient,
the mower should be in good
condition and the cutter-bar set
rather high. A number of
rollers towed behind a tractor
or truck, and light harrows
dragged behind each set of
rollers, has proved a good way
to harvest the pods and bring
more burrs to the surface for
subsequent rollings. As pods and
burrs collect they should be
placed in dumps over the field.
On the M.I.A. good results in
threshing the pods have been
obtained with an adjusted rice-
header, Final cleaning is not
necessary when the seed is for
home use, but when it is to be
sold commercially cleaning- and
grading-standards must comply
with the Agricultural Seeds Act.
The machines needed for this
latter job are too expensive for
the average farmer. But, as
Jessup suggests, a group of
farmers could produce com-
mercial seed on a co-operative
basis. An acre of sub.-clover
sown for seed could become the
basis of sowing areas running
into three figures.
Crosscuts
West Darling (N.S.W.)
pastoralists want a man put on
full-time to supervise the dog-
proof fences (which they say
aren’t); preferably to be
stationed at Tibooburra, Repre-
sentatives of P.P. Boards of
Broken Hill, Milparinka,
Wanaaring and Wilcannia were
unanimous on this and other
points arising out of damage
done by dingoes. Broken Hill
Board has a long boundary with
S.A., Wanaaring with Queens-
land, Milparinka with both
States; Wilcannia Board doesn’t
touch either State, but has a
common boundary of some
hundreds of miles with the other
boards. \
* * * *
\
Every yard helps: The new
U.S. general-duty uniform will
mean orders for more than
20,000,000yd5. of 16oz. wool-
serge before the end of 1957, by
unofficial estimate.
South Africa’s wool-cheque
for 1953-54 season was
£64,221,000 second highest
yet. Average price for all wools
was 57.5 d. a lb., 63.7 d. for
Merino. In the eight post-war
years the Union’s clip has
earned (in millions) £14.7,
£22.5, £30.9, £38.5, £90.8, £49,
£60.5 and £64.2.
• t • •
Australia’s wool exports in
1953-54 earned £412.2 million
—nearly half of the total income
from exports (£B3O million).
Japan bought less Australian
wool last season (£38.5 million
compared with £57.7 million for
the previous season) and U.K.
purchases fell from £127.5 to
£104.8 million; symptomatic of
a general decline in demand in
sterling countries. But this was
offset by increased purchases by
other countries, notably Russia.
Japan is likely to buy less
Australian wool this season
(Dalgety’s). For one thing, the
Japanese-Argentine trade-treaty
is now working more smoothly.
And the Japanese Government
has warned the industry that
imports of Australian wool will
be reduced till reciprocal trade
from Australia justifies an
increase.
• • • •
Annual census of wool stocks
in the U.S. showed total com-
mercial stocks of 203,000,0001 b.
(scoured basis) on April 1, 1954.
This was one per cent, less than
stocks reported on March 28,
1953.
• • • •
“There are increasing signs in
the United States of a firmer tex-
tile price-structure in the making.
The indications are scattered,
and do not give rise to any run-
away optimism. But they have
alleviated some of the tension
among textile-makers over the
outlook for their industry”
(“Wall Street Journal”).
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
There may be some more frost as the seasonal cycle
seems to show a late winter. Next rains may be late in the
month, introducing the general rains of October. From their
intensity we shall know if the Uranian cycle is still active.
It was not noticeably so in 1953, but showed in the Lismore
(N.S.W. North Coast) flood.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision —in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/8.
Send name and address with
postal note.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Wild Turkey
Following upon some remarks of mine
concerning the parlous position of Aus-
tralia’s bustard, or wild turkey (B.
30/6/’54), a committee of naturalists in
W.A. has published in the “Emu”
(journal of the Ornithologists’ Union)
the results of an inquiry into the subject
made throughout that State.
Evidence gained and conclusions
reached are much the same as those stated
in my article. The clear indication is
that unless something definite is done to
check slaughter, one of our most dis-
tinctive birds will soon be numbered with
the dodo.
As in other States, the bustard is “pro-
tected” in W.A., but, again as in other
States, the law on the point is openly
flouted. For example, in various parts of
the Kimberleys, where the birds still
occur in fair numbers, “sportsmen” make
a point of stalking bustards that have
gorged on grasshoppers, and then fall
upon them with 12-gauge shotguns.
“Evidently,” says one correspondent,
‘ the police at Wyndham and elsewhere
are well aware of what is going on, but,
since the birds are good to eat, they are
fair game.”
That statement led to an official in-
quiry. And, alas, the only outcome was
this defeatist comment by the investigat-
ing officer; “All townships are the same.
Personally, I think that the task of trying
to prevent people from shooting these
birds is hopeless. If there was someone in
each town who had the interest of the
game at heart and was not afraid of what
people might say, then it might be
different.”
A point to be remarked here is that
the Kimberley poachers are not a race
apart, the fact being, of course, that in
more closely settled areas the bustards
have already been killed off. Thus, there
is this report from the south-west: “Only
one seen in 30,000 miles travelled in the
wheatbelt.” And from another area
where the birds were once common comes
this fragment: “None seen alive in 5000
miles of travelling, but six which had
been shot were seen on one car south of
Big Bell.”
In its general conclusions, the com-
mittee of inquiry states that the bustard
is now rare in most parts of W.A.; that
no serious attempt is made to enforce
the protective law, and that, while able
to withstand grassfires and other natural
hazards, the species is extremely vulner-
able to guns.
“It appears likely,” the committee
adds, “that this is the only Australian
bird the existence of which is threatened
by shooting.”
All this bears out, of course, what I
wrote about the bustard’s affairs in Aus-
tralia generally, and also what a Queens-
land commentator, “Quo Vadis” (B
"Clothes-props !”
28/7/ ’54), said on the subject. It be-
comes obvious that a basic need is for
the responsible Minister in each State to
issue a firm directive to his Police De-
partment for strict enforcement of the
law, supplemented by prosecutions.
At the same time, I still think that the
situation could be eased unofficially—
that is, by active interest in the welfare
of the stately bird on the part of men
and women of goodwill who Jive in the
interior. —A, H. Chisholm (N.S.W.).
Telephones
In the Federal House the other day
the P.M.G. said, according to Brisbane
“Courier-Mail,” that “the Postal Depart-
ment was receiving 140,000 applications
a year for telephones. Because of this,
he could see no reason why telephone-
rentals should be reduced. If the rentals
were reduced applications would be
greater.”
I thought it was the aim of the P.M.G.
to provide a telephone in every home
where it is wanted at a cost the user can
afford. But now the P.M.G. states, in
effect, that it is better to keep the num-
ber of applications to a minimum by con-
tinuing high rentals, admitting that the
present rentals prevent many people from
owning a ’phone.
Telephones aren’t a luxury, but an
essential part of our lives, particularly
in country districts. — Vega (Q.).
“Win, Tie or Wrangle”?
I have just read The Bulletin’s
article (B. 11/8/’54) on the conduct
exhibited by certain Australian sporting
teams or individuals.
Why pick on the League tour? Firstly,
it is not only the boozers who follow the
League. Watch the members’ stand any
important match. Are the thousands on
the “Outer” all drunks and morons?
Secondly, most League-players play for
fun. If some funds come with the game,
is this any worse than the racing game?
Thirdly, in reference to the game which
the referee ended so abruptly. Was it
only after a few minuted play? Fifty-
nine minutes out of 80 is rather much for
“a few.” Again, I saw the Union “Test”
between Australia and Fiji, as well as the
match under discussion. Let me assure
you that the former game was much
rougher, with more ill-will and spite
thrown in than the momentary flare-up
in the League match. As to the referee
and his resignation—well, he took the
only course. Anyone who could miss the
Greenall attack on Wells, with the
referee 10yds. away, should hang up his
whistle,
I do not like squealers either, or bad-
temper in sports. Condemn it as strongly
as possible. But be sporting yourselves
—J.R.A. (N.S.W.).
Hire-purchase
No doubt there is a lot to be said
against time-payment, as various
Bulletin contributors have lately indi-
cated ; but there’s quite a credit side,
too.
Conditions in the U.S.A, may not be
exactly the same as those in Australia
or N.Z.; still, the importance of hire-
purchase in America can be taken as a
reasonable guide to its usefulness or
otherwise in our economies.
Since the removal of Government con-
trol of consumer-credit in the U.S. a
year or so ago, h.-p. business has been on
a huge scale there. And most of the hard-
headed leaders of American industry are
all in favor. Despite this already- vast
use of instalment-buying, there’s a cam-
paign in progress to increase it still fur-
ther. (Didn’t the 19th-century American
statesman Daniel Webster declare that
Credit has done 1000 times more to
enrich mankind than all the goldmines
in the world”?)
Most of the industrial jobs today are
dependent on thriving factories, which in
turn must keep in continuous produc-
tion ; t.-p., of course, actually stimulates
production. As for that outworn fear,
overproduction “saturation of the
market” it’s also called—well, there
seems little real possibility of that, T.-p.
actually seems to prevent slumps develop-
ing and to keep industry going.
In these days of the Welfare State,
there is little point in saving; is it not
desirable to go in for motor-cars; fridges,
washing-machines and the like, all of
which make for the comfort of the indi-
vidual and the production of which also
makes for employment?
In N.Z. there has been a great increase
in hire-purchase in the last few years;
and the experts so far can’t see any danger
“Mrs. Dooley! Mrs. Dooley!”
to the national economy. For one thing,
the credit policy of the Reserve Bank
exercises a steadying influence on hire-
purchase trading. As for h.-p. dealings
themselves, on which some objections are
based, the ?aw fully protects both custo-
mer and trader. — Rossley (N.Z.).
The Senate
Most people recognise the Federal
Senate as a confounded nuisance, but
few advocate the obvious remedy—its
abolition.
Whatever merits the bicameral system
may have in some circumstances, it is a
logical absurdity when both Chambers
are elected on the same franchise and
when a party soundly defeated at a
general election may still have a majority
in a House which virtually has power to
veto Government legislation. When the
second Chamber flouts the will of the
majority of electors it is then both an
absurdity and a nuisance.
The framers of the Federal Constitu-
tion meant well in providing for protec-
tion of the smaller States against the
overwhelming strength of N. S. Wales
and Victoria. When the development of
party politics nullified this intention the
Senate ceased to have any justification.
Representatives of smaller States don’t
combine for their common interests ; they
vote the party ticket in practically all cir-
cumstances, although they may make a
vocal gesture in some instances.
If all Senators went to the country
at the same time as the Reps the worst
anomaly would be avoided; but the
Senate would still be a fifth-wheel, and
a costly one—largely a harbor for poli-
ticians rejected by electors of their
States. — G. Elburg (N.S.W.),
Wine Prices and Publicity
As one who likes a drop of sherry at
the appropriate hour, and some honest
claret or hock with a suitable meal, I’m
singularly unimpressed with the frequent
wails of the wine-producers about com-
petition abroad. Why don’t they go flat-
out for the Australian market by selling
their better products at a price which
will enable them to compete with the
great Australian drink?
Prices are considerably lower in
Sydney than in my town, 200 rail-miles
distant, but even so they are pretty hot
over the counter and hotter still taken
with a hotel or restaurant meal, I am
not sure how much the Federal Treasurer
takes of the price of each bottle, but
perhaps some forbearance on his part
would assist.
Lately we’ve had a Minister declaring
in Parliament that there is “a real need
to increase the popularity and consump-
tion of Australian wines in oversea
countries and within Australia as well”;
that this “is essential if this important
Australian industry is to expand or even
continue production at the high level
attained in recent years.” So the Wine
Board is to be allowed to spend part of
its funds on the advertising of wine and
brandy m Australia as wfu V££d.
and the levy collected on grapes delivered
to the wineries and distilleries is to be
raised.
The Minister added, perhaps a trifle
r . ash 7; l hat xt wa s important that there
should be no impediments to potential
purchasers in Australia obtaining wine at
the most convenient points and in the
quantities they require, adding that in
this aspect the Commonwealth Govern-
ment had no say or responsibility. I can
assure him that I’ll be most happy to
increase the quantities I buy if the real
impediment, the current prices, is tackled
early in the publicity campaign.—
Charles Meeking (A.C.T.).
Innisfaii Example
I’ve just spent a week in the high-
rainfall sugar-town of Innisfaii (Q.), and
I left for the south deeply impressed by
the way 6000-odd Australians have taken
New Australians of all nationalities into
the Australian way of life.
Europeans are not new to this town,
for some of the early settlers in the cane-
fields came there from Europe at the
turn of the century —many, some years
before —but the number then was small
compared with the thousands around the
district today, particularly during the
cane-cutting season.
Australians at Innisfaii have done
their utmost to break down the loneliness
for the new citizens —inviting them into
Australian homes and meeting them at
picnics, at work and at their places of
worship. The New Australians, too, were
quick to return the hospitality. And, as
this unrehearsed scheme grew, the hand
of friendship was extended from one
European to another European.
There’s no more convincing proof in
Australia that New Australians can mix
together happily than Innisfaii on a
Saturday morning when New Australian
workers come in from the canefields and
the sugar-mills. It is the most cosmopoli-
tan town in eastern Australia during
these bfief three hours. They are happy,
nodding and talking to each other, and
from an Australian shop comes music,
Neapolitan, German, Czech and many
other tunes not known to this observer.
The bars are well packed while the
womenfolk shop, but they are not lined
with “cliques” of different nationalities.
Race and creed mean little in these bars.
The publican in one of these hotels
is a Czech, a former staff-sergeant in his
country’s Army and one of the thousands
at Normandy on D-Day; he speaks half
a dozen languages and is for ever intro-
ducing New Australians to one another
and to Australians. He is typical of
many Europeans in Innisfaii who are
helping others to settle in their new land.
Yet, despite their success with New
Australians, the locals tell me they have
never once had a visit from a top-ranking
official of the Immigration Department.
There’s more to our vast immigration
programme than bringing Europeans to
Australia to work. They must be happy
in their new country. Innisfaii is one
place that has worked for this goal and
achieved it. — Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).


proportion of porous and perme-
able beds, but its geological
history must have allowed the
introduction of a gas-oil-water
complex and, before the static
state was reached, a movement
of the fluids which allowed of
the segregation of the three
components into sizeable de-
posits. Where porosity and
permeability are uniform over
the whole structure —a condi-
tion only very rarely met with
in nature —and where the fluid
has moved uniformly up-dip
without other orientation, then,
and then only, will the text-
book disposition of gas over oil
over water, separated by hori-
zontal interfaces, prevail.
In practice, however, this
exact disposition is so rare that
the successful search for oil-
“pools” is guided more by ex-
perience of what has occurred
in other fields.
Geophysics
Before the impact of the geo-
physician upon the oil industry
the field geologist was dependent
for extrapolation of outcrop
data to depth on very intensive
and minute study on the fold-
characteristics and the behavior
under stress of the surface rocks
or core samples to which he had
access; occasionally he could
take advantage of the results of
laboratory tests.
Within my own experience it
has been necessary to spend a
week or more in the examina-
tion of a small exposure before
the sought-for information was
obtained ; such an expenditure
of time was frowned upon by
the non-geological sections of
the organisation, who regarded
it merely as an excuse for an
extended “smoke-oh.”
With the advent of the geo-
physicist the necessity for such
study was lessened, but thereby
a type of geological technique
which increased enormously the
capacity for sound deduction
was lost to the oncoming genera-
tion. I place the zenith of un-
aided structural extrapolation in
the early 1920’5, and I never
regretted having been forced to
adopt it. Later on it proved of
great use to me in arriving at
geologically sane interpretations
of mathematically analysed geo-
physical data.
Geophysical methods, long
prior to their adaptation to map-
ping hidden structural Contours
in the search for oil, were used
in the academic study of gravity
anomalies, but their first suc-
cessful impact on the oil industry
was when they were employed
in the detection of hidden salt-
domes on the Gulf Coast of
U.S.A.; their use spread rapidly
to other types of potential oil-
fields.
Today geophysics finds its
economically most useful outlet
in mapping the buried extension
of known structures. It should
be realised, however, that even
in its present high stage of de-
velopment it suffers from two
serious disabilities which must
be recognised if this very useful
tool is to be employed to full
advantage in the search for oil.
Its first disadvantage is that
—irrespective of whether gravi-
tational, magnetic or seismic
methods are employed—the
physical attribute measured is
not necessarily coincident with
the sub-surface structural inter-
faces ; its second is that all de-
tail (sometimes very important
detail) is smoothed over, and
this may give rise to a false sug-
gestion of simple conditions
underground.
The salt-dome, with its
marked difference in specific-
gravity between the salt and the
adjacent strata, combined with
the generally featureless terrain
of the Gulf Coast of Texas and
Louisiana, forms an ideal venue
for torsion - balance surveys.
Other areas, with smaller
divergencies in specific-gravity,
and with landscapes which cause
gravity anomalies equal to or
greater than those produced by
the buried beds, are unsuited to
this technique. A case in point,
with reference to an early
torsion-balance survey of an
area abutting on a producing
oilfield, may be quoted.
When the question of a tor-
sion-balance survey was dis-
cussed I pointed out that it was
unlikely that the area in ques-
tion was underlain by oil-bear-
ing beds, owing to the nature
and age of the faulting which
separated it from the producing
field. My opinion was overruled
and the survey was carried out
at very considerable expense.
The isogam lines, calculated
from the balance data, indicated
the presence of a series of really
beautiful domes and basins, in
echelon, but I argued that the
trend and type of these struc-
tures did not fit in with those
of the petroliferous strata on the
other side of the fault and that
the isogam map very much re-
sembled a smoothed-out version
of the topographic contours, of
an area about 20 miles away, on
outcropping rocks of pre-
petroliferous age. When the first,
and only, well was drilled on
the crest of a geophysically
located “dome” it did not strike
any strata of the petroliferous
series, but passed direct from
the newer to the older rocks,
which, in core, were shown to be
vertical.
Nearer home, a combined
gravity, magnetic and seismic
survey over a small area may
be remembered, as the interpre-
tations of the three sets of geo-
physical data admittedly gave
quite contradictory results. At
the one point they agreed in
predicting a “structural high”
which was disproved on drilling.
It should be emphasised that
these two examples in no way
condemn the employment of
geophysics in oil-exploration, but
they do show the necessity for
geological interpreters who pos-
sess the experience necessary to
convert the calculated contours
of the geophysical mathema-
ticians into structures which are
possible under the geological
conditions prevailing in the area
surveyed.
t
Personal Interlude
Any geologist having long
connection with the oil industry
is certain to experience both
successes and failures. I am of
opinion that much more is learnt
Jrom the failures than the suc-
cesses. Some of the great
tragedies of oil-exploration are
those connected with inexperi-
enced geologists who, by sheer
luck, struck oil on their first
location. The major companies
fully recognise this fact, and
never place the onus of an im-
portant decision on the shoul-
ders of a junior, however bril-
liant he may appear to be.
The search for oil, in spite of
recent advances, is still largely
a craft as well as a science both
in the method of approach to
problems and of their solution.
j s? mQ re often than not,
an individual matter, as it is
difficult for any petroleum-
geologist to visualise the per-
plexities of his colleagues in
tliesir entirety; there are often
so m any obscure but important
details which are difficult to ex-
p ress j n WO rds and to transmit,
therefore, confine myself
h ere to accoun ts of some oil-
fi e id s for the development of
w hich I was personally respons-
and w hich possess interest-
j n g an d puzzling features.
j n one § ou th American oil-
g e j d a jj the wells were located
on a re g U i ar diamond-grid pat-
tern, an d. the majority of them
g ave commercial production at
a f a j r iy uniform depth. The
productive zone was proved, on
palaeontological and heavy-
mineral-residue evidence and
coring, to lie at or near a marked
unconformity not exposed at the
surface. The production from
even adjacent wells was found
to be quite unconnected with
a ny surface features, and the
distribution of gas, oil and water
was quite irregular ; there were
also large areas of the field
which were barren of oil without
apparent geological reason.
Some of the wells contained
obviously migrated oil, and, after
a considerable amount of inves-
tigation, I was able to correlate
the extent and degree of migra-
tion with the chemical composi-
tion of the oil.
Using this knowledge, I was
able to explain the reasons for
the barren patches and the
anomalous distribution of gas,
oil and water. By drilling new
wells within the productive
zones, but not following the
existing diamond pattern, the
production of the field was
increased threefold in less than
a year.
At a later stage 1 was able to
apply this knowledge to the
solution of a peculiar down-dip
sequence (water; oil and gas ;
oil; gas ; water ; in that order).
It was not due to overturned
folds, as had been suggested, but
was an effect of directional
migration. Incidentally, I pre-
dicted the failure of this area
as a commercial producer be-
fore the first well had ceased to
flow, although it gushed a thous-
and barrels of honey-colored oil
on its first day. My advice to
discontinue development was
not taken, and subsequent wells
either had spectacular initial
production (and were short-
lived) or were dry. The
attempted exploitation of this
“pool” resulted in heavy losses
to the operating company,
Two “perfect” structures, both
connected with the Andean oil-
belt, caused me great disap-
pointment. In each case they
included a large basin-structure
flanked with satisfactorily
“closed” anticlines and domes,
Outcropping in adjoining areas
and correlating with the buried
strata of the basin were prob-
able source-beds showing oil-
impregnations and, above them,
permeable and porous sand-
stones with all the characteristics
of reservoir-beds,
Fringing the structures were
“mud-volcanos” which con-
tinually belched mud and gas
and smears of oil, and on some
of the down-dip faults there were
oil-seepages at outcrop. On
one of the structures one well
produced a few barrels a day
of light oil and provided the
camp with all its petrol require-
ments, but a second bore,
almost on the same strike, was
dry.
On the other structure (which
I considered the better of the
two) the company for which I
was working stopped operations
before it was able to drill on
my first location; five years
later a major oil company took
over the concession and drilled
on my location but got only
small production. They aban-
doned the area without further
test owing to its remote position.
Source-beds at outcrop are
often a cause of embarrassment,
particularly when they are so
widely impregnated with oil and
gas that it is impossible to drill
more than a few hundred feet
without encountering small
shows of oil and gas. Quite
apart from the difficulty of
drilling through such unstable
strata, inexperienced companies
tend to have their hopes raised
quite unduly. The Aure Trough,
in Papua, is a case in point.
Epilogue
The excellence of the work of
American petroleum - geologists
is not due to better academic
training than that available in
other countries, but centres on
the fact that every prospective
member of that profession in
America has easy access to pro-
ducing fields where he can
supplement and check his
theory.
Some of the United Kingdom
universities, which offer full
degree-courses in the geology of
oil, overcome the handicap of
the lack of commercially produc-
ing structures at home by mak-
ing six-months approved work
on a producing oilfield an
integral and compulsory part of
the course. In pre-war days
Rumanian, Polish and Trini-
dadian oilfields were favorite
training-grounds, and all of
them possessed intriguingly
complex structures and anoma-
lies. Now Trinidad has the
monopoly, except for the few
British students who are able
to arrange exchanges with U.S.
or Canadian trainees.
For the Australian student,
with rare exceptions, commer-
cially producing fields are too
distant and transport is too ex-
pensive to allow him to acquire
the practical experience very
necessary even before he starts
his post-academic apprentice-
ship on the job. Before the
recent oil-boom, when he took
a job abroad, with the object of
gaining practical experience, the
prospect of obtaining reasonably
permanent and reasonably paid
employment here was so remote
that he did not return and was
lost to the country.
It is to be hoped that pay-oil
will soon be discovered in Aus-
tralia so that the handicap for
the Australian graduate of lack
of adequate working experience
in oilfields, both on the explora-
tory and production side, will
be removed, and that the exist-
ing necessity of going overseas
to obtain that experience will be
overcome. The problem will
not be solved, however, by send-
ing selected personnel on short
oilfield tours.
NOW SOUNDS THE THRUSH
Now sounds the thrush who says that summer s
coming.
This fellow with the mellow fluting song
At winter’s end, the seasons’ harbinger.
Cries “Cheer! Cheer! Cheer! Twon’t be long!"
Before the warm days are here, the lazy
Long afternoons, the yellow grass, the hills
Lost in a haze of blue . . . You mocking mummer,
Telling of summers which will soon be gone,
Soon as they’re here, almost! I do not crave
Reminders, bird. Too fast the years move on,
The seasons change; each one a long step nearer
To the cold, endless winter of the grave.
S.A
NANCY CATO.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 293
Across
I—Tradesmen introduce “a regular
ghy” to the hens. (11)
7—A report for father. (3)
9—Greasy duck by the Italian, but
why finish. (4)
11— Utensil which presses the con-
tinental Scots man. (5-8)
12— Current furniture can be pre-
sented on stage. (7)
14 —What makes pop love panelling.'
(4)
16— Thrush makes none employ fifty.
(5)
17— When Kelly was immature. (9)
19—Eagerness for fielding backward
of a point in the nature of a
valley. (5-4)
21—Next May? (5)
23—Girl in the infirmary. (4)
25—A bloke leaves fruit. (7)
27—The minute after stylish Kenneth
finishes the hero of a nursery
tale. (7, 6)
30— The Shah may be taken from the
course. (4)
31— Take action against a girl. (3)
32 — Advice to the reckless wax
match’s successor. (6, 5)
Down
1— Account on a musical comedy
Rajah’s territory backwaters. (10)
2 Thus chess-games finish steam,
perhaps, when spouses are not
out. (7)
3 O’Malley and Hughes, Australian
statesmen, are declared black.
(4,5)
4 top is removed from the
barque by the more occupied
gun-maker. (11)
5 Fish spawn. (3)
6 Given a gluey surface, the fourth
magnitude is up to the last letter.
(5)
7 The component of methylated
spirit that makes the alcohol
undrinkable. (7)
8 — Rotten strumpet. (4)
10—The French levee isn’t attended
by the first girl. (2)
13 —Flora embraces this, too, so
include me to your memories.
(6-2-3)
15—Youth with a help for the unem-
ployed aroma. (10)
18—The row isn’t fancy enough for a
litigant. (9)
20 —Who writes about the Whiteoaks
with cholera? (2, 5)
22 —Chanticleer takes the Queen on
to Kangaroo Street. (7)
24—A mile is as good as a single
personality in the wrong. (5)
26 —One affirmative, or many? (4)
28 — When Halmahera does not give
Alma her little laugh. (2)
29 — A hundred laugh after tea with a
chaperon who dismisses a dic-
tator. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 292


f
.
•>V
“r ,
\
•*!«■*'•'»»mk*«rt*!. I 4
CXC
ill
Egsymww)
m
)rr
ir= i
r<
«g£&
m%i
7W
*#<
•r
-<6
W*
mm
:■:■■:■ A
<**
• m
■^r--
* » » » / h> »■ mh
*.A‘-
- ’t- 'l
■■ •/
™_T- “. ■ *
;■
V
{*
ion
i Jinan:*) 99
lllOSpiO
JL
It sounds very much like a forest fire—the sharp, fierce
crackling, punctuated by the tearing crash as a large tree
comes down.
Facing the wall of Gidyea trees, you see through the haze of
dust an undulation along the feathery tops and, as the move-
ment becomes more violent, a shuddering vibration sways the
trunks, almost as if the trees could sense the doom behind.
Then, above the staccato, snapping treble, you hear the steady
deep bass throb of powerful diesel engines.
The waving undulation becomes a tumultuous tossing and
suddenly the wall of trees disintegrates in a final shattering
of sound and down, flattened, smashed, they go to earth.
Rolling, bounding like a live thing, appears their destroyer—
a gigantic steel ball, centred on a heavy chain and cable. Away
to right and left the two big yellow tractors, to which the cable
ends are attached, slow to a stop. Between them, along a three
hundred yard front, the forest has been laid low.
★ ★ ★
“Gillespie,” a thirty-two thousand acre property outside
Blackall, in the heart of Queensland’s sheep country, is land
recently acquired for addition to well-known “Northampton
Downs,” It is being cleared as part of a huge developmental
scheme to turn waste land into profitable pasturage. The
timber will be burnt as it lies, grass will be sown and the lush,
transformed “Gillespie” will be capable of carrying ten
thousand sheep. Twenty-six thousand head already pasture on
adjoining “Northampton Downs.”
The method of clearing is simple but spectacularly efficient.
Clearance is at the rate of 20 acres each 10-hour day—and in
one particular pass nine acres were cleared in a fantastic
eleven minutes!
Two heavily-armoured Caterpillar D 8 Track-type Tractors are
doing the job, A heavy steel shaft is mounted through the giant
9-foot diameter steel ball; to tins shaft, on either side, is
attached a ship’s anchor chain, followed by a 2-inch steel cable,
which is in turn fastened to the drawbar of each tractor. 'The
approximate length of the cable and chain on either side is 150
yards; the total weight of ball, chain and cable is 14 tons!
Credit for “Operation Gillespie” must go to Major H. Rubin,
principal of Queensland Pastoral Estates. Behind the spirit
of this tremendous enterprise are two men of vision: Hon.
H. H, Collins, Queensland Minister for Agriculture and Stock,
and Mr. H, Hastings Deering. Both have long advocated the
conversion of the land to its full productive use by the most
modern methods.
“Operation Gillespie” is a re-sounding success. Playing a
major role are the “big yellow machines” —rugged, pc
diesel-powered Caterpillar Track-type Tractors— hel]
transform Queensland’s vast western lands into rich pj
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Distributors;
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
QLD.: HASTINGS DEERING (QLD.) PTY. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
TAS.; WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO.. ADELAIDE.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DIESELS LTD.. ALICE
SPRINGS.
T. GUINEA: HASTINGS DIESELS (NEW GUINEA)
LIMITED, LAE.
