

THE HOUSE
sdf
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
PRIMARY-PRODUCERS' INCOME-TAX 6UIDE- M<5£ 33
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3886
Wednesday, August 4, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
FALKLAND PALACE, HOME OF THE SCOTTISH KINGS
BENEATH the northern slopes of the Lomond Hills in Fife, th rty m
from Edinburgh, is Falkland, an ancient royal burgh renowned_loi me
manufacture of linoleum. It is famous, also, for its possession of Falkian
Palace. This imposing building, once the property of the bans or ri a,
first became a royal palace when it was forfeited to the crown in the 15lh
century, and thereafter it became a favourite residence of Scottish Kings.
James 11, who rebuilt the Palace, was killed by the explosion of one of
his own cannon in 1460. Thirty-five years later James IV made the mistake
of supporting the cause of, and housing at Falkland, an impostor named
Perkin Warbeck who claimed to be the younger of the two princes murdered
in the Tower of London, and therefore a claimant to the throne of England.
In 1537, shortly before his marriage, James V completed the building ol
Falkland Palace and its present-day appearance dates mainly from that time.
A few days before his death at Falkland James V was told of the of his
daughter Marv the future Queen of Scots. Her son, James VI of S
(James l' of England), was staying at Falkland Palace when the P
hk lifp i-nown as the Cowrie Conspiracy, was made. The last King to si y
there was Charles 11, who was in residence prior to his crowning at Scone
1651. J f .
The genial outlaw, Rob Roy, occupied the Palace in 1715 and extractc
stolon
interior which is open to visitors,'are the Royal Chapel, the ruined banquet.ng
Hall, Flemish tapestries and the King’s Room in which James I of Scotland died.


Learn
Writing
qt HOME
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dcesscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
'testers, Graders
Farm Arith ./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
——CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
MY NAME
ADDRESS . - > . . ... . i
(S.B. 1454) AGE
The Red Page
MR. ATTLEE
A recent newspaper description of
Attlee as a “waspish little man” explains
much about his extraordinary auto-
biography, As It Happened (Heinemann);
he flies in a straight line and comes
quickly to the point. Son of a London
solicitor who was president of the Incor-
porated-Law Society, he is a born com-
mitteeman, dry as a bone in argument,
unimpressed by the rhetoric of others:
matters that Churchill would have decided
with a full-orchestra of oratory, and cele-
brated with a procession and State
banquet, Attlee finishes-off with a few
strokes of the pen and, looking up from
his desk to his secretary, who should
always be an Old Haileyburian, asks what
comes next.
One was just about to write “his great
adversary, Churchill” ; but who these days
would consider it an even match? Yet
who nationalised coal and steel in the
face of Churchill’s most powerful objec-
tions ; who put Churchill out of office
at the height of his power and in the
moment of victory? Who, for that
matter, put Churchill in?
On May 9, 1940, Attlee and Greenwood
met Chamberlain, Lord Halifax and
Churchill at Downing Street to discuss
formation of a coalition Government.
I told him [Chamberlain] that I knew the
views of our party in the House and the
country and 1 was perfectly certain that they
would not consent to come into a Govern-
ment of which, in effect, he was the head.
It was not a pleasant task to tell a Prime
Minister that he ought to go, but I had no
option but to tell him the truth.
The matter was decided by a telegram
they asked him to send from the annual
Labor conference at Bournemouth the
following day, stating whether they would
enter a Government under Chamberlain
or, if not, under someone else. The
result was Churchill:
He had been at odds with the Conserva-
tive Party and was thus free from the taint
of Munich. This made it possible for Labor
Ministers to work under him as they could
not have done so easily with a regular
supporter of Chamberlain.
He puts Churchill with Lloyd George:
Both of them had the power of injecting
into the whole administration, and indeed
into the life of the nation, the sense of
urgency which success in war requires....
In my view, the balance lies with
Churchill....
Because Churchill was a historian and
had been a soldier. But Attlee considers
that it was Churchill who made the “tac-
tical error” in the election which followed
the winding-up of the national Govern-
ment, of violently attacking the party
which had put him in office and leaders
who had been among his most trusted
colleagues—Attlee himself, as Deputy
Prime Minister throughout the war, had
managed the House and a huge quantity
of Churchill’s detail-work.
For various reasons the election was
spread over three weeks, during which
Attlee joined Churchill and Eden in
Potsdam. They interrupted their talks
with Stalin and Molotov to go back and
hear the results of the election; after
which “neither Churchill nor Eden
wished to return to Potsdam,’ and Attlee
went back as Prime Minister with the new
Foreign Secretary, Ernest Bevin —a matter
that shocked Molotov:—-
“But you said the election would be a
close thing and now you have a big major-
ity.” 1 said, “Yes, we could not tell what
would be the result.” But he kept repeating
the same phrase I am sure he thought
that Churchill would have “fixed” the
election and that the change-over by
democratic process was a great shock to
him.
What makes this book extraordinary is
its brisk dismissal of matters on which
you would expect him to dilate. Nation-
alisation of coal gets two sentences:
There was not much real opposition to
our nationalisation policy. It was realised
on all sides that the problem of the Coal
, Industry had been shockingly mishandled in
the past and that if men were to be got
to work in the pits a new start was neces-
sary.
Iron-and-steel nationalisation, however,
roused feeling “perhaps because hopes of
profit were greater here than elsewhere.”
But his main discussion of this huge
appropriation is limited to two paragraphs
on getting the bill through the Lords.
He goes into more detail in describing,
step by step, his nationalisation of India ;
and makes it quite plain that he and
Bevin had a good deal to do with prising
the Dutch loose from Indonesia:
Bevin and I «• had many meetings with
Dutch statesmen on the future of Indonesia
and I think that we were not without
influence in the decisions which were even-
tually arrived at, but I think that the delay
in granting full self-government was unfor-
tunate.
A young man of private means, he
graduated from social-worker to semi-
political jobs like explaining Lloyd
George’s National Insurance Act of 1911
all over the country ; His experience in
poor districts made him a member of
the Independent Labor Party ; the Webbs
got him made lecturer and tutor in social
science and public administration at the
London School of Economics. In World
War 1 he served as an officer at Gallipoli,
and as a tank-instructor had two visits to
France, in the second going to Passchen-
daele to help prepare the attack on Poel-
capelle. Made a major, he went again to
France with the sth Territorial battalion.
Mayor of Stepney in 1919, he won
Limehouse from the Conservatives in
1922, and became one of Ramsay
MacDonald’s Parliamentary private sec-
retaries, becoming Under-Secretary of
State for War when MacDonald was
unexpectedly put in power after the 1923
election.- When Lansbury went down
over pacifism in 1935, Attlee was elected
in his place.
He has achieved and held power with
something of the anonymity of the general-
manager of a large company; perhaps
this self-effacement is necessary to the
perfect Socialist leader. He met King
George VI almost once a week while he
was Prime Minister ; he met Roosevelt
in Washington ; he was a V.I.P. visiting
Italy, Normandy and Holland in the war
years; he heard Stalin joke at Potsdam,
when the question of another meeting-
place came up, “Why not Madrid?”—
Stalin having just told them what he
thought of Franco; he saw Molotov
startled during the San Francisco Con-
ference to find a humble Kaiser-shipyard
employee earning £3O a week ; he was the
Norwegian Government’s guest; he was,
as Prime Minister, President Truman’s
guest, and attended Miss Truman’s con-
cert, the one that provoked the President’s
celebrated letter to the critic who, says
Mr Attlee, “had passed an unfavorable
and, to my mind, unfair criticism on her
singing”; he has recently attended Social-
ist conferences at Liege, Stockholm, Milan
and Rangoon ; he had three weeks in
Yugoslavia as guest of Marshal Tito —
and all this leaves him, so far as one can
see from his book, about as much
changed or impressed as if he had served
for a term on the committee of a Parents’
and Citizens’ association.
He has one expression of pleasure:
“interesting” ; he uses it again and again,
but without a great deal of conviction;
and the reader of his book may find
himself applying the same adjective in the
same tone to Mr. Attlee, but with the
reservation that no one has more deserved
the Order of Merit which he holds.
A Churchill Omnibus
The practice of getting up literary testi-
monials to famous men has produced
Churchill By His Contemporaries, edited
by Charles Eade (Hutchinson). The 39
experts who contribute essays, each on
some facet of Churchill’s career, put
together a very various diamond; and
some produce fine essays in the process,
notably Lord Justice Birkett on
“Churchill the Orator,” and Malcolm
Muggeridge in his careful assessment of
“Churchill the Biographer and His-
torian” :
The Second World War will necessarily
remain a work of reference and a classic,
if only for the minutes and other special
documents which were written or dic-
tated when he was Prime Minister, in the
heat of conducting the 1939-45 war....
They are historic more than historical, glow
with the making, rather than the writing,
of history. The narrative itself, as has been
said, despite the majesty of its presenta-
tion, is, in a sense, too alive to be entirely
satisfactory as a record. It is what the
French call an actmlile. It careers along
like an impassioned oration rather than a
reasoned argument. If its claim to history
may be challenged, historians, we may be
sure, will always use it and be beholden
to it. Even more than The World Crisis,
it will remain an imperishable monument
to one who, in an age of littleness, has
shown himself to be a great Englishman,
a great European, and a great man.
Again:
As a biographer, then, Churchill must be
considered as both too human and too alive
to portray, in other than a highly individual
style, either his friends or his enemies.
And when Lord Justice Birkett is mak-
ing his scholarly survey of the art of
oratory, and Churchill’s place in it, he
says:—
But what about the man himself? When
Lord Rosebery, himself a master of the
written and the spoken word, came to
analyse the oratory of Chatham he con-
cluded a brilliant exposition with the
words: “It is not merely the thing that is
said, but the man who says it that counts,
the character which breathes through the
sentences.” This just observation applies
with especial force to Churchill.
Throughout this more-than-500-page
book there are many references to
Churchill’s speeches, but not even in Lord
Justice Birkett’s specialised essay are the
speeches considered as a whole; it is
the tags, perhaps not many more than
fifty paragraphs and sentences, super-
finely polished, by which Churchill moved
his war-time contemporaries, and will
speak to posterity: Birkett’s excellent
contrast of Burke, whose great speech on
conciliation with America “drove every-
body away,” with Churchill is the con-
trast between the essentially great speech-
maker and the essentially great man.
So it is not so much for judgments we
look in this book, but for stories about
the man; and there are plenty: he can’t
stand pins, says his war-time secretary,
Miss Mary Shearburn (she has since
married his bodyguard, Detective-Inspec-
tor Thompson), and pins must be replaced
by tags:—
He astounded me b> looking up from
the pages of a letter I had just handed him
and saying the one word, “Klop.” He was
obviously asking me to give him something
but I had not the remotest idea what it
was. Seeing my bewilderment, he explained
that he meant “a paper punch.” “When
I say ‘Klop,’ Miss Shearburn, that is what
I want.”
Early in the war Churchill dispensed
with shorthand-notes, and dictated direct
to the who used a noiseless type-
writer. She had to be able to say at any
point of the dictation how many words
there were. Her ordinary instructions
were to burn all carbons on leaving his
room ; but with some “Top Secret” dicta-
tions she had to hand copies and carbons
to Churchill.
The preparation of a speech was, as a
rule, a fairly lengthy business. First there
was the rough draft on which he made cor-
rections and alterations. This was followed
by an unlimited number of re-types, the
final “speech-form” very often only com-
pleted within a matter of minutes before
the speech was due to be delivered. Typing
in what we knew as “speech-form” was quite
an art. It was done on octavo sheets for
all except broadcast speeches, when quarto
was used. The result had the appearance
or rather eccentric blank-verse. A “verse”
represented a sentence, and this was sub-
divided into phrases—sometimes even
words —on separate lines, so that, as he
read it, he could tell at a glance where the
emphasis was required, where pauses were
indicated and where he could draw breath,
etc.
In his study of “Churchill and the
Army,” Lieutenant-General H. G. Martin
has to consider him as a soldier and a
statesman. A product of Sandhurst, pass-
ing out with honors in 1894, he went
wherever there was action: a Spanish
insurrection in Cuba in 1895 ; India with
the 4th Hussars in 1896, and action on
the North-West Frontier against the
Mamunds in 1897 ; then the Sudan cam-
paign and Omdurman ; back again to the
Hussars in India in time to win the Inter-
Regimental polo-tournament with a dislo-
cated shoulder, his right elbow strapped
to his body, scoring three of his side’s
four goals ; and in 1899, South Africa
and the Boer War. He was back in
England, an M.P., by 1900.
His five years’ career in the army is
bound up with his career as war-corre-
spondent, to which G. Ward Price de-
votes his chapter. Churchill was an
aristocrat and a string-puller; he got to
the Sudan against Kitchener’s will. Being
a cavalry-officer, he charged with the
cavalry at Omdurman while Steevens,
later his great friend and admirer, being
only a war-correspondent, went in with
the infantry. Churchill had begun as war-
correspondent with letters from India
for which his mother secured him £5 a
column. In his final. South African,
adventure, which, with captures, escapes,
casual walks and bicycle-rides through
Boer towns and derring-do under fire,
made him world-famous, he was getting
£250 a month, and expenses, from “The
Morning Post.” Mr. Price catalogues
eleven times when Churchill endangered
his life betwen the ages of 18 and 26. By
26 he was a veteran soldier, had made
some £lO,OOO from his writing, and had
entered Parliament. :
One of his greatest services to the
Army as a statesman was his insistence
on producing the tank. He did it as
First Lord of the Admiralty, charged with
the air-defence of Great Britain, needing
a vehicle that would cope with cratered
roads. The War Office not co-operating,
the Navy built 18 “land-ships” on
Churchill’s responsibility. He can also
claim, says Air-Chief-Marshal Joubert
in considering him as an airman, invent-
ing the terms “Seaplane” and “Flight”—
“the latter representing a given number
of aircraft” ; and even, from 1911 to 1915,
can be considered “responsible for the
creation and development of the Royal
Naval Air Service.” He gave .up trying
to qualify as a pilot himself, when, in
1919, taking over the controls from his
pilot and secretary, Jack Scott, he stalled
and crashed the plane and broke Scott’s
legs.
From the survey of Churchill and the
Navy by Admiral Sir William James, one
may skip the well-known record, and take
just a paragraph from the part dealing
with World War II:
Despite his unflagging interest in the day-
to-day conduct of the war and in long-
distance planning, he found time to inquire
into the welfare of the personnel. On his
initiative a theatre and cinema ship was
fitted out as “an important adjunct of
naval life at Scarpa.” He suggested a
routine that would give the hard-pressed
destroyer-crews more rest ; and he can-
celled the rule obliging a court-martial
when ships were damaged, as it damped
the ardor of the officers.
Whether Churchill would have liked
Admiral James to say “personnel” for
“men” those may judge who read Eisen-
hower’s chapter (taken from his Crusade
in Europe ): —
One day a British general happened to
refer to soldiers, in the technical language
of the British staff, officer, as “bodies.” The
Prime Minister interrupted with an im-
passioned speech of condemnation —he said
it was inhuman to talk of soldiers in such
cold-blooded fashion, and that it sounded
as if they were merely freight—or, worse,
corpses. I must confess I always felt the
same way about the expression, but on that
occasion my sympathies were with the staff-
officer.
He could be tender of people’s feelings,
you see, no matter whom it might hurt;
also of his own, as Guy Eden remembers,
considering “Churchill in High Office”:
A good many people have found this
when seeking to presume on some slight
acquaintance and to be over-familiar with
him. His method with such people—and
they came from all ranks and all walks
of life—is to gaze steadily at them for a
few moments and then, as the subject of
scrutiny reddens uneasily or decides that
the Great Man is about to recall some
incident shared with him, to grunt with
mild disgust and walk firmly away, without
so much as a single word.
In thinking of “Churchill as a Political
Opponent,” the Rt, Hon. Emanuel Shin-
well, the Labor M.P., remembers that it
was Churchill who first brought “the
Boneless Wonder” into Parliamentary in-
vective, speaking of Ramsay MacDon-
ald’s “skill in falling without hurting
himself”:
He recalled a visit when a child to a
circus which contained an exhibition of
freaks and monstrosities. “The exhibit he
most desired to see was the ‘Boneless Won-
der.’ His parents objected to his taste in
wishing to See such a revolting spectacle,
so he had to wait fifty years to see the
‘Boneless Wonder’ sitting on the Treasury
Bench.”
“I do my best to dislike Churchill,”
says Mr. Shinwell.... “yet how can one
work up an intense dislike for a man
who has ‘borne the burden and heat of
the day,’ whose abilities are unquestion-
able....” But Churchill’s opponents
have been charmed by qualities other
than his deserts or his abilities, as Beric
Holt points out in “Churchill the Editor.”
It was evidently more as an organiser
than editor that Mr. Churchill dis-
tinguished himself when he brought out
the “British Gazette” during the general
strike of 1926, getting for it, in that inert
community, a distribution of some
2,209,000 copies:
Some time after the General Strike there
was an occasion when tempers were rising
in the House of Commons during a speech
by Churchill and he suddenly paused,
looked fiercely at the Socialist benches and
said, “I warn you ” The silence was
complete. “I warn you if ever there is
another General Strike....” The members
on both sides sat tense and angry, waiting
and wondering what the bombshell would
be, then the House exploded into laughter as
Churchill concluded, “We will let lobse on
you another ‘British Gazette’!”
Although Mr. Shinwell thinks Churchill
does not like being scored-off, this is no
doubt in public and by enemies; Collin
Brooks, in “Churchill the Conversational-
ist,” says Churchill delights in the refer-
ence of his bosom friend and political
enemy, F. E. Smith, to “ ‘The Dundee
Advertiser’ —I mean the newspaper, not
o Continued on page 26)


Shop
This is the story of a LI !■ I V V
that brings new comfort to tired and ilhsupported feet. Sir Herbert Barker was a famous
Orthopaedic Surgeon, who performed miraculous cures on crippled joints and
muscles. One of his theories was that much of a person s good health depended on the
welhbeing of his or her feet, so he set about designing for himself the perfect pair of shoes. He tried
European bootmakers, Italian and Spanish. A London
craftsman almost gave him what he wanted, but the shoes were finally
perfected by an Indian Maharajah’s bootmaker. They were such a success
he had them adapted and crafted for women. Sir Herbert Barker’s
Orthopaedic shoes correct your foot problems, strengthen and support
tired muscles. And, if you’ve never had
the slightest foot complaint, these English
remedial shoes will keep your feet
perfect for the rest of your life*
Ml
p-;
designed hg
Come in and have your Sir Herbert Barker Shoes fitted by an expert in our special Sir Herbert Barker Salon.
A. Grey suede shoe with kid
tie and lightweight sole. Com-
fortable Cuban heel. Priced
at 125/6.
C. Elegant Burgundy suede
shoe with ghillie tie and
welted sole. Smart leather
heel. Priced 132 if.
A
B
D. Brown suede gusset court,
punched vamp with covered
sports heel. This shoe is
priced at 132/,-.
E. Derby lightweight kid in
black, blue, brown. Priced at
123/-.
Sffl
Nature form last
Correct balance
B. Welted sole tie Gibson in
. black or blue kid, 127/-.
2nd Floor, Shoe Salon.
Mail and ’phone orders.
Complete arch support
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
ddfssf
d
PHONE T. O. P. S. ( M


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 4, 1954
Vol 75—No. 3886
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
' HEa £52 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521;
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
'TIS FORTY YEARS SINCE
Too ay, August 4, officially the fortieth anniversary of
the First World War’s outbreak, recalls in a special
personal sense for Old Diggers, and for others still living
who were then old enough to be aware of it, something
ot the fading vision of an era which they, at least, may
ink about as one of that war’s bitterest casualties.
For survivors of that old generation Scott’s sub-title
to Waverley needs only altering by a word—from his
sixty to their “forty”— to span back over the later
days of darkness, nights of waking” to a moment of
history as picturesque and romantic and nationally
exciting particularly, if not peculiarly, so to Australia
—as any that even Sir Walter ever dreamt of or
depicted.
Perhaps, too, their special personal awareness of
it as the climax of a nostalgic era, and otherwise of
tremendous historical significance, is shared today in a
general sense by most others. It was a war lucky in
one respect; in its historians—perhaps in that one
respect only, though for Australia, at least, Gallipoli,
for one thing, will hardly be set down in the long roll
of time as a loss. As if the singular significance of it
all had dictated, no war before it ever produced such
monumental detailed histories. They tell, along with
eveiy other such meticulous detail, that today achievec
its special status as a milestone of history by only the
matter of an hour: at 11 p.m. on August 4, 1914, the
time set in Britain’s ultimatum to Germany was up
and the British Ambassador asked for his passports.
It was not, of course, as abrupt as all that. It
had been simmering to this head for over a month —
since the Balkan assassination on June 28 of the heir
to the Austro-Hungarian throne. Almost incredibly
now, the news of that actual triggering of the war—
and of all that has happened to the world since—did
not reach the Australian Press until two days later. Il;
was not till a month later on, with Austria —and whai:
is Austria now? —belligerently insisting on the military
punishment of Serbia, and with Germany backing
Austria, that the probable consequences of that poli-
tical incident began to be dimly glimpsed: at any rate,
as far as this then outpost Australia was concerned
By the end of July cables were coming from the British
Government requesting—or ordering—preliminary
implementing of prearranged defence (meaning war'
measures. The day before the technical outbreak,
Australia’s offer to place its Navy “under the control
of the Admiralty,” and to send “an expeditionary force
of 20,000 men of any suggested composition to any
destination desired by the Home Government; force
to be at complete disposal of Home Government,” had
been dispatched.
As the historians tell, and the survivors of the old
generation know, the announcement of that Cabinet
decision, when it came, evoked at once an extraordinary
reaction right throughout Australia. The response, the
historians agree, was as near to unanimous as any
people could possibly get; it was instantaneous, and it
came from all shades of political opinion and from
all sections of the community alike. The old genera-
tion will tell you that nothing like it has been known
since: that the only thing which might be said to have
revived a breath of it temporarily—in both its romantic
character and its virtual unanimousness—was the
general emotional response to the Queen when she was
here. Certainly the response to the Second World War
was a very different thing: like an aftermath of the
disillusions the first war itself was to bring before it
was over, leaving here then a country which had been
eager and enthusiastic, fairly hogging for war, and as
good as unanimous to a man at the beginning, before
the end divided in bitterness at as sordid a level as it
has ever crawled down to.
As everyone knows, the later response—to the
second war—had its own quality of strength; but it
was, of course, dour, grim, and even to some extent
uncertain. Reaction to any foreseeable future war
will doubtless be of this same harsh pattern. Except
that reaction to invasion, or perhaps even to a close
enough threat of it, would probably be as nationally
unanimous, there could never again be anything like
the eager, romantically colored response which the
now-nearly-lost old generation today remembers.
Mars has fallen badly in grace since Norman Lindsay
pictured him striking the war-gong to which they
responded. Other gods have fallen with him, and other
once-mighty things and concepts; the Empire from
the seeming secure and everlasting—and, as it turned
out before that first war was through, overconfident —
tmng that it was (there had been even the possibility
that the Australian offer of 20,000 men would at first
be rejected, as unnecessary); the great nations of
bur ope from what they were; even the old ideals of
patriotism and loyalty have been made to look at
times a bit bedraggled ; above all, the entire old concept
°* war—colorful,* adventurous; some sense of
chivalrous decency in its conduct between the Warring
hosts which was still the pattern, and the lure, and
me nationally stirring inspiration when World War I
broke out, has now gone into the shadowy past,
blackened over by the threat of the atom-bomb, of
war coming suddenly and dreadfully home, without
ultimatum or warning
Even the words of the 1914 British “protest” to
which the old generation may today recall —
flagrant violation of the law of nations”—seem now
a mockery; seem at least to belong to a vanished
world: a lost era which no doubt had its human
faults and even its crirhes against humanity and against
ideals of civilisation (as succeeding days have had, too,
in plenty), but which can, for all that —and today
especially be thought of, with regret for its passing,
as an era grandly heroic in a magnificent way of its
own.
Defence Begins at Home
While all eyes are turned on the dangers of Com
munism in South-East Asia, Australia still seems to be
unable to deal with the menace at home. The party
Nourishes. Its headquarters are busy pouring out tons
of Russian and Chinese propaganda, elaborately printer
and sold at nominal prices far below the cost of pro
duction in any country and with an obviously seditious
purpose.
Communists defy the laws, but use them to the
full. Nobody shrieks more loudly about British justice
and the Magna Carta than the Communist when justice
is catching up with him. And with monotonous regu-
larity the country is subjected to the attrition at which
Moscow-trained saboteurs are expert and appears ready
to take it lying down, even though it is a menace to
national security.
It is a sine qua non with all Australians who turn
their eyes northward that military defence against the
external enemy is vital, but there seems to be a fetish
that if the enemy cares to carry on his war from inside
the Commonwealth the law, under the Constitution,
should not touch him. If the Government can find nc
way of touching him under existing laws, it should hold
another referendum, the result of which might be very
different from the first, which was won almost entirely
on Dr Evatt’s spokesmanship as a Great Liberal, which
few people believe that he is today.
One of the most sinister activities of the Com-
munist party at present is in transport, which its
technicians in politics hold to be the key to all industrial
and defence activity. And that matters should have
been allowed to reach the pass which they have reached
is unbelievable.
The Communist party in Australia has, over the
past four years, supported the enemy in Korea. It has
propagated all the loathsome charges against United
Nations soldiers that Moscow has cared to send out.
It has hampered the servicing of our battalions in
Korea by every means within its power. It has carried
on a regular campaign for the surrender of the Western
world to the Communist bloc, for the abandonment of
atom defence—except, of course, by Soviet Russia
and China. It holds that every piece of Communist
banditry and murder is somehow an emanation of the
Communist world’s passion for peace. It has done its
best to cause chaos in government, unrest in public life,
disruption in scholarship and general discontent and
unbalance in thinking. It has strained itself to under-
mine the faith of Australians in their system and in
their destiny. And even its associates in the “Labor”
movement who should know it best, since they have
slept with it, docile and subservient, for years, agree
that it is a treasonable, traitorous conspiracy in the
interests of a foreign Power.
Yet this monstrous and cancerous growth is
allowed to take a grip of bodies of men who can control
the prosperity of the country and sway them by
intimidation and by a kind of brainwashing technique
which renders them a danger to their own safety. It
has been allowed to retain its grip particularly on land-
and sea-transport business, so that at will a few
mechanics can disorganise the lives of, say, a couple
of hundred thousand citizens who are dependent to be
carried to and from work, and can paralyse business
and industry on pretexts so absurd that nobody could
believe them to be genuine. The supine Cahill
Ministry in N. S. Wales, of course, stands by while this
is going on, its Transport Minister, Mr. Wetherell,
wringing his hands and murmuring; “Creeping
paralysis.”
The worst instance of Communist impudence is
the campaign which it this year has begun in the
stevedoring industry, and with which the Sydney
Chamber of Commerce has now asked the Prime
Minister to deal. It would not be exaggerating to
say that Australia, through the control of Messrs.
Healy, Elliptt, Roach, Nelson and company, is at
present almost at the mercy of Moscow for overseas
connections and coastal traffic. No excuse is too small
for a stop-work meeting which closes down the
wharves for the day over most of a port of world
standard. An induced fear that a ship which has at
some time passed through seas in which long ago there
may have been an atom-bomb explosion is enough to
call for a day’s loaf. Recently wharfies and seamen at
Port Kembla struck to aid in having a waitress
reinstated.
A month or two ago Mr. R. A. Coutts, deputy-
chairman of the Australasian Steamship Owners’
Federation, said that ships could only be operated on
the basis of the provision of adequate wharf-labor a
fair rate of work, a better attitude by wharf-workers
to the use of mechanical appliances and particularly the
elimination of costly strikes, often on flimsy pretexts
and political issues, elimination of crew hold-ups and
disputes and better observance of Arbitration Court
awards.” Also, particularly, “good employer-employee
relationships,” which are impossible under the present
system when the watersiders are divorced from contact
with their actual employers who provide 50 000 of
them with £45,000,000 p.a. in wages. Watersiders have
become, in fact, a Socialised commodity under manage-
ment by a Government board:
The operation of the present Government-con-
trolled board is a costly burden on the shipowner
and indirectly on the community. At present the
men do not know their real employers but are de-
pendent upon a board to allocate them work and pay
them attendance-money.
It is a system under which Communism can flourish to
its heart’s content—it is made for its purposes and
having regard to the kind of Government which
introduced it, possibly was made by it. Certainly it has
been perpetuated with the eager support of the
Communist party.
In Sydney within the past few weeks no fewer than
5500 wharfmen have been idle at intervals. In Mel-
bourne, during July, the Communists secured control
for the first time for years of the waterside at the
annual union elections, defeating the A.L.P. candidates
left and right. What the port now has to look forward
to can be judged by what has gone before this year, and
what is currently going on all the way up the coast to
Cairns,
In the year ended June 30 last in Melbourne
214,000 man-hours were- lost through unauthorised
stoppages—four times the number in 1953—and the
shipping companies estimate that, in this one port,
£5,000,000-worth of cargo was held up, some of it
spoiled, much moved under compulsion by land at
added cost. The Himalaya during July was compelled
to leave £lOO,OOO-worth of cargo behind. Freight-
rates are at their peak. Labor is short, and the attempt
of the Melbourne board to recruit another 400 or so
men is apparently being frustrated or delayed by the
union.
The question might well be asked why the present
position is developing so generally in all ports at this
time, for wharf-disruption is on the increase. In 1951
227 disputes and crew-shortages in Australian waters
caused the loss of 2382 ship’s-days. In 1952 there was a
drop to 137 disputes and shortages causing the loss of
only 891 ship’s-days. In 1953 there was a further drop
114 delays, 515 ship’s-days lost. But the pendulum
swings towards Moscow. Overseas ships which in
1953 took an average of 4.7 days to handle for a given
quantity of cargo took an average of 5.8 days in
January-June, 1954 ; the comparative figures for inter-
state ships were 4.7 days, 1953, and 6.5 days, 1954.
Average cargo handled per day for overseas ships has
fallen in Sydney from 368 tons last year to 314 tons
for overseas ships; in inter-State vessels from 401 to
323 tons. This year dissension is flaring up wherever
a ship is brought into harbor. And in the light of what
is happening in Asia it is easy to guess the cause.
The Government will have to realise that defence
begins at home—and the home-front is Communist-
party headquarters. As part of the scheme for the
protection of South-East Asia there should be some
action which will enable the provisions of the Defence
Act to be applied to transport sabotage. The “Labor”
party, so raucous in defence of Communist rights in
1951, would scarcely dare to oppose such a measure
now.
Keynote Session
In the ACT”: External and internal consideration
make the opening this week of Australia’s Twenty-first
Federal Parliament an occasion for sober and con-
structive thought rather than political rejoicing on the
one hand and recrimination on the other. It is time
Parliament got down to work again, and it is certainly
time that the Prime Minister made the statement on
Australian policy on South-East Asia which he has now
promised. Internally, apart from the Budget, the
Parliament has to face the fact that, at present, it is
committed to an election for half the Senate less than
two years hence, and that some constitutional amend-
ment to avert this is therefore highly desirable to
prevent national and Parliamentary distractions.
The Menzies Government has found itself pre-
occupied by defence ever since it came into office
nearly five years ago to clean up the mess in Canberra,
and the succession of world crises has prevented any
real relaxation in our precautionary expenditures.
But the Budget, in a time of solid and increasing
prosperity, must reflect the prospects of stability in the
next three years unless we suffer a major drought or
the international balloon goes up.
The keynote of the Parliament, therefore, should
be that of the Prime Minister’s policy-speech—tempered
optimism, with a profound belief in the magnificent
opportunities now opening up in front of Australia
and in the ability and willingness of Australians to take
advantage of them. It remains to be demonstrated
whether “Labor” has learned its painful lesson, or
whether the past absence of firmness and unity in its
ranks has been increased by the bitter sectional feuds
it has been unable to conceal. The party may feel,
although with little justification, that it has some
prospect of success in the Senate if the election for that
Chamber is held in 1956. It would do better if it forgot
the rivalries and jealousies which handicap it, and paid
some attention to the revision of its objectives which
appears essential if it is ever to regain support. Its
front-bench shows little evidence of being able to face
the issue, but some back-bencher willing to defy union
bosses and entrenched Parliamentary diehards clinging
to safe seats may yet arise to give a lead on the long
and painful road back.


BUBBLES
(After Millais, “Hop,” etc.)


PLAIN ENGLISH
Federal Parliament
Federal Parliament has opened this week
with a clear three years ahead in which
to carry out the mandates of the May
election —that is, if it can command for
that time a Senate majority which will
let it.
The Address-in-Reply moved by the
new member for Flinders and seconded
by the new member for Wide Bay, a
veteran Parliamentarian, will provide a
chance for the Opposition to test Govern-
ment strength and an opportunity also
for the country to learn whether “Labor”
was talking tongue-in-cheek when it
abandoned the socialisation objective dur-
ing the campaign, and also whether the
assurances of unity within its ranks have
substance. The opinion of one leading
member of caucus expressed during the
week is that “a firecracker would burst it
open in its present condition.” But most
of its members will be inclined to mark-
time until the Biennial Conference to be
held at Hobart in January makes their
opinions for them, and when Socialisa-
tion is to be thoroughly discussed.
The anti-Communists of the party
will certainly have their say, but they are
so few that their voices, as usual, are
likely to be drowned, and the greater
interest is likely to be concentrated on
the eternal triangle of the band of
brothers which forms the leadership
group—H. V. Evatt, Calwell, Ward and
Pollard—each member of which is
manoeuvring for position. The Petrov
Commission will lurk like a spectre in
the background of “Labor’s” thinking
until it is all over, when some people will
be able to breathe freely again, and some
may not.
On the Government side the problem
of back-bench discontent with the Minis-
try and the lack of new blood in it will
be only a minor element in the pristine
days of the Parliament, but is one which
will have to be reckoned with later.
Momentarily the issues of war and the
Budget override everything. The South-
East Asian question is the paramount one,
and on its developments partly depend the
trends of the Australian economy over
the next few years. The defence measures
which the free world will have to take
will certainly maintain the demand for
military materials and metals, but it will
also put a substantial brake on the tax-
reduction which everybody hoped to
see continue over the next few years.
Instead of a reduction of the defence-
vote this year, due to the fact that pre-
vious ones contained items which it was
expected would not recur, it will certainly
be round £2OO million, the same figure
as last year, and there may have to be
a supplementary estimate.
What Australia’s commitments are
likely to be in the Seato organisation
will probably not be determined until the
conference which tackles its formation —
early in September, on present prophecies.
But it is certain that the Government
will have to concern itself largely with
defence throughout the Parliament, more
especially in view of the new attitude of
the United States as indicated by Presi-
dent Eisenhower, who has instructed the
agencies dealing with co-ordination of
effort and exchange with the British Com-
monwealth in atomic matters to go on
with their plans. This will almost certainly
bring the United States into some rela-
tionship with Woomera Range, more
especially as British experiment seems, in
this field, as in most things, to be ahead
of the rest of the world.
An issue which cannot be long let
lie is Communism. The wharf-strikes
and go-slow and shortages which are dis-
organising shipping and threatening to
close the Mt. Isa mine, the new infiltra-
tions going on into union-government, the
developments of new techniques whereby
small sections. Communist-controlled, in
great industries can disorganise commun-
ity-life, as is being done in Sydney by
A.E.U. members and Boilermakers in the
railways and tramways, call for early
attention on a national scale.
These are all major issues, the last
steadily moving into the forefront.
Beer-news
Beer is always news in Sydney. If revela-
tion of the ease with which it can be
bought after hours in night-clubs momen-
tarily loses its interest the difficulty of
securing it through legitimate channels
takes its place. If discussions on the six-
o’clock swill show signs of losing their
power to disgust, comments on the de-
lights of civilised drinking in beer-gardens
can be relied on to satisfy the public crav-
ing for a vicarious binge. In between
times there is always the question of
whether a policeman can or can’t be
bribed with beer or whether he can or
can t be bribed in other ways not to
recognise beer if he sees it at the wrong
time or place.
The Maxwell Commission, of course,
gave the beer-reading public their greatest
orgy, with, naturally, the biggest hang-
over ; there has been an appearance of
flatness on the whole beer-news front ever
since, which even the noble attempts of
liquor-scribes to whip up enthusiasm over
the streamlined apprenticeship to pub-
ownership of Jimmy Carruthers has not
been entirely able to dispel. The public
was given a pub-to-pub and pump-to-
pump description, with photographs, of
the boxing champion’s initiation, culmin-
ating in his pulling his first schooner as
a publican in his own right and receiving
rather ambiguous advice from a‘senior
police-officer to the effect that as long
as he played ball with the police they’d
play ball with him T
Now it seems that the Cahill Govern-
ment, which has been sitting on the Max-
well Report so long that there is probably
not a pint of beer in existence that was
brewed before Maxwell, J., completed it,
is contemplating amendments to the
Liquor Act. Judging by informed guesses
as to the nature of the amendments they
are not likely to alter Sydney’s drinking
habits very much, but while they are
before Parliament, and at least until after
the referendum on hours they are said
to provide for, they’ll provide plenty of
beer-news for thirsty readers.
Suez Implications
The withdrawal of the 73,000 troops
occupying the Egyptian Canal Zone
represented another constriction of
British influence, and will have a sad
effect in Asia. It will be interpreted
through the East as a surrender, which in
fact it is; surrender to one of the most
feeble and distracted Governments that
has ever professed to rule a nation.
On almost every point in the arrange-
ment the United Kingdom compromised.
It was proposed that it should have the
right to reopen the base if any of the
Arab States should attack Turkey or
Persia. But the Egyptians insisted on
Persia being left out of the agreement,
Britain asked that the term of the
arrangement should be twenty years;
Egypt advocated and secured a seven-
year limit.
The base, of course, will remain and
will be maintained by civilian contrac-
tors, Britain’s claim to keep military tech-
nicians in charge being rejected. The
maintenance of free navigation in the
canal will be in the hands of Egypt, and
Egypt’s idea of freedom is far different
from that of most of the rest of the
world. The only alternative to agreement
was declared to be force. But, however 1
that may be, the arrangement is now
made, and after 70 years Britain is out
of Egypt, her shortest sea-line to Aus-
tralia menaced. Her only self-controlled
entrance to the Mediterranean is through
the narrow Gibraltar Strait.
It was perhaps inevitable. In the new
strategy and tactics of the atomic age
sea-surface forces will be only accessories.
Every year the range, speed and carrying-
power of aircraft are increased. There are
machines already which can deliver a
brigade across Australia in three or four
days, giants of the air flying at the speed
of sound which can carry not one atom-
or hydrogen-bomb but a dozen small
ones. So vital are the implications of the
hydrogen-bomb that many centres in the
United Kingdom and elsewhere have
ceased the development of civil defence
because they feel that everything they
can do would be useless under H-bomb
attack.
Sea-movement, especially underwater
movement, has developed a new range
and flexibility. Large submarines are
world-cruisers, and the rocket and the
atom-projectile have given them a new
meaning in attack on shore-based
defences. Many of the weapons of 1934
seem to have lost significance in the con-
ditions of 1954.
The emphasis is on concentration of
power to hit at the source of attack from
a central base small enough to be made
something like defensible, speed in re-
sponse to emergencies in air and on land
and, at sea, the development of means to
combat dispersion of the submarine, which
becomes as important as the ship of the
line in Nelson’s day.
Constricted routes that pass through
narrow waters have become useless—even
in World War II the operations were a
little too big to be carried on in reason-
able comfort'in the Mediterranean. The
conception in the next war will be great
bases, each self-contained, since wide-
spread supply-communications will be
suicidally costly in resources which might
be concentrated with greater effect on
the enemy. And these bases will be so
arranged that they will be able to strike
at the central aggressor from every side,
though they should have world-wide
co-ordination.
The new war, if it comes, will be the
first war that can be truly called a world
war, because no part of the world will
be immune from attack virtually with-
out warning.
It therefore can be said that the loss
of the Canal Zone, like other losses of
territory and vantage-lines and axes, is
important most largely for political
reasons. Militarily it would be too much
under fire in war to be worth the force
needed to preserve it.
But it is not good for British morale;
and it certainly does not promise to be
good for the British Government, whose
ageing leaders appear to be losing grip.
The idea of facing a new war with Mr.
Eden at the helm would not fill even a
Christian pacifist with enthusiasm, and
Winston Churchill has already reached
the stage at which no effort can be
expected from him in any way compar-
able with his service in the last war.
With the election approaching the time
is nearly ripe for revolutionary Changes
in the British leadership,
Negotiation by Blackmail
When the Federal Arbitration Court last
February adjourned further consideration
of the margins case until November, in-
dustrial “Labor” at once spoke of taking
action for an earlier hearing. Those
unions most notorious for being ever on
the lookout for an excuse for staging a
strike were quick to see the possibilities,
with the result that stoppages of all
varieties—one-day strikes, rolling strikes,
overtime-strikes and regulation-strikes—•
have been part of the industrial scene
ever since. Ostensibly the strikes are
staged in the hope that they will induce
the court to advance the date of the
hearing, but it is hard to believe that any
trade-union official expects that to
happen ; it would mean that the court
had completely abdicated its authority
and could be expected in future to yield
to any demands that were supported by
direct action. In other words it would
mean the end of industrial arbitration,
which the “Labor” party is pledged to
support.
The strikes of maintenance-men at
some of Sydney’s bus depots show at once
Psychology of fhe
Share-boom—page 14
the futility of these stoppages and the
callous disregard those responsible have
for the general public and their fellow-
workers. It apparently means nothing
to the gentlemen of the Amalgamated
Engineering Union that thousands of
people have to walk to work or find
other transport because of cancelled bus-
services or that men willing to work have
had to be stood-down for the same
reason. The N. S. Wales Railways are
the sufferers from another phase <pf this
destructive policy—an overtime-ban by
boilermakers. According to Transport
Minister Wetherell this has slowed-down
running operations to the extent that
the department is having great difficulty
in keeping up a supply of coal-trucks to
the mines, and if it continues much
longer passenger - services, could be
affected. He describes the effect as
“creeping paralysis,”
Last Thursday representatives of these
two unions, together with those of other
unions of employees in Government
transport departments, asked Premier
Cahill to double the margins of all skilled
and semi-skilled workers in Government
employ. The Premier refused the request,
but said the Government was prepared
to support any case made by the unions
before the Arbitration Court. He said
that if the Government granted increased
margins now it would have to increase
fares and freights, which were at satura-
tion-point already.
None of the unions was very happy
at the reception accorded the deputation,
but most of them accepted Cahill’s reply
as disappointing but final. The A.E.U.,
however, at once declared its bus-depot
strike on again. This time it is likely to
be even more futile than before, as the
drivers have expressed their determina-
tion to keep the buses running even if
staff-men are called upoq. to do the work
usually done by the strikers.
♦Margins-strikes, foolish at first, are
now approaching the stage of sheer
idiocy. The date fixed for the resumed
hearing is only three months away; even
the A.C.T.U. would find it hard to pro-
duce arguments to justify bringing it
forward.
Solomonic Judgment
The results of the Studley-Ruxton
inquiry will do nothing to restore confi-
dence in the New South Wales police
administration and less to promote faith
in the Cahill Government’s desire to do
justice, which must not only be done in
such matters, as well as in police deal-
ings with the public, but must clearly
appear to be done.
The inquiry sat for 55 days. Every
witness, and, it seemed to many,
especially every witness whose testimony
appeared to be inimical to the police,
was submitted to a devastating barrage
of questions, often of the kind which
contain innuendo or direct charges
against the character of the witness. A
far greater number of questions
than is usual were asked by the com-
missioner, who sometimes showed a
tenacity in cross-examination as great as
that of counsel.
A novel feature was the- minute
examination of the proceedings as be-
tween solicitor and client, an inquisition
at times carried to such lengths that a
reader of the Press reports might have
been pardoned for feeling that this
appeared to be the primary object of the
commission. The barrage of inquiry
directed at Mr. Poole, the allegations of
impropriety aimed at this apparently
respectable solicitor (who came to Aus-
tralia with the highest recommendations
from the Chief Constable of the County
of Bedford, in which he had been a police
prosecutor, before ill-health sent him to
Australia) gave little encouragement to
professional men to risk their resources
in order to have complaints by clients
against officials investigated.
Whatever justification there was for
his treatment—and it can only be said
that again and again allegations against
him proved to have no basis —Mr. Poole’s
attitude of mind calls for commendation,
even if his methods may not have always
been judicious. He came out of the in-
quiry, with all its unsavory background,
very well from the point of view of
public policy.
The finding of Mr, Justice Dovey
would have pleased King Solomon
immensely. Studley-Ruxton’s allegation
was that he was assaulted by seven police
at Darlinghurst Police Station, sustain-
ing, among several injuries, a broken rib
and a bruise six inches across on his
stomach. And there were subsidiary
charges of improper conduct by the
police at interviews.
The complainant was not a witness
whose word was to be taken without
corroboration. He was, as the commis-
sioner declared, “addicted to excessive
drinking, emotionally unstable and lived
a hand-to-mouth existence by borrowing
money” and methods alleged to be less
creditable. He did not tell the truth on
several occasions in the box. But all this
did not get over the fact that he had
obviously been recently injured through
assault of a severe nature, and that some
witnesses, including the police, had not
noticed the effects of such hurts as he
had sustained when he was arrested.
The judge virtually made two findings
about his injuries. It was quite obvious
that those on his face and arms could
not have been caused before his arrest.
His Honor declared that he had “more
than a slight suspicion” that these might
have been caused by Detectives L. G.
Birchall and I, R. Hill during one of his
interrogations, though he was not un-
mindful of the possibility that Ruxton’s
attitude “might have goaded one, or
possibly two, of the police concerned in
this inquiry, into departing from the
book of instructions and treating him in
a way which, while of little consequence
as an assault, was, nevertheless, a severe
blow to his false pride and ego.”
For the rest of the injuries the judge
said that while they “could have been
caused by his being assaulted by one
or more men, they were inconsistent with
a brutal bashing for more than an hour
and a half by a number of men using
fists, boots and batons” He therefore
found that Studley-Ruxton “probably”
received the injuries which were not
normally visible to the public in a
drunken brawl or fight, though all inves-
tigation—and it was extensive —into
Studley-Ruxton’s movements had failed
to produce evidence of such a brawl,
even if there was some of an all-night
party of which considerable drinking was
a feature.
The matter leaves a lot to be desired
from the point of view of the relations
of the police and the public. There has
o Continued on next page)


been no inquiry into the Rigby case, the
disturbing features of which were not
relevant issues in the charges heard
against that 51-year-old artist, who made
allegations somewhat similar to those of
Studley-Ruxton about his treatment
while under arrest.
And Mr. Cahill has balked altogether
at taking any action to inquire into the
conduct of the Police Commissioner, who
was accused publicly in actionable terms
by the daily Press of having assisted in
making a money settlement to quash
other charges of assault against the
police—one of whom was concerned and
cleared by Mr. Justice Dovey in the
Studley-Ruxton affair—sworn to by an
Inverell (N.S.W.) resident named Quinn.
That case certainly calls for the most
searching public inquiry, and it is diffi-
cult to understand why Mr. Delaney, the
Police Commissioner, does not call for
it to clear his own reputation, apart from
that of his officers.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Federal session which opens today,
the first of the 21st Parliament, should
be anything but dull. Tomorrow’s state-
ment by the Prime Minister on the posi-
tion in South-East Asia should be the
most important survey on foreign affairs
heard in Canberra for a considerable
time; it will be followed by a full debate.
Early business will include a bill to
tighten up the terms of the Petrov Com-
mission to remove any doubts as to its
validity. The Budget will be introduced
by Treasurer Fadden on August 18.
• •
The new Parliament will have fewer
new members than any for a long time.
There’ll be two on the Government side
of the House —R. W- L. Lindsay
(Flinders, Vic.) and F. A. Brand (Wide
Bay, Q.). “Labor” has three new mem-
bers—L. H. Barnard (Bass, Tas.), W. C.
Coutts (Griffith, Q.) and C. H. Webb
(Swan, W.A.) —and two former members
who are returning to the fold. These are
N. J. O. Makin (Sturt, S.A.), former
Speaker and Ambassador to Washington,
and Nelson Lemmon (St. George,
N.S.W.), former Minister for Works and
Housing.
« •
Cahill’s Cabinet is still playing with
the idea of introducing payment of aider-
men. They’re not game as yet to advo-
cate making municipal service a full-time
job for the boys, complete with retiring
allowances, but they are talking of “pay-
ment for time lost from work attending
to local-government business.” Lord
Mayor Two-job Hills is all in favor of
it. Not that it affects him personally;
for the next two years he’ll be receiving
full-time pay as M.L.A. and full-time pay
as Lord Mayor, irrespective of which job,
if either, he is doing at any given moment.
• •
The A.C.T.U., while seeking an earlier
hearing of the margins case, is opposed
to direct action by individual unions, yet
the Watersiders’ Federation is holding
stopwork meetings on all ships in Sydney
this afternoon “in support of the A.C.T.U.
policy.”
• •
J. G. Arthur, Mines Minister in the
Cahill Government until the Doyle Royal
Commission caused his resignation, has
been paid £236 ss. for expenses incurred
investigating the coal-industry overseas
while on his honeymoon in 1952; the
sum represents 30 days at £6 6s. a day.
As his entire trip lasted only 88 days and
the investigations were merely incidental
to the tour, not its main purpose, the
amount cannot be considered niggardly.
Arthur’s report has not been published,
so there is no way of judging what sort
of value the N. S. Wales coal-industry
got for the money.
Arthur himself placed a somewhat
higher value on his services; he asked
for £1451. Cahill said this claim “could
not be entertained,” but he did not
release any details as to how Arthur
arrived at the figure. Possibly it was a
slip of memory; during the Doyle case
the sum of £l4OO cropped up so often.
To an inquiry whether the Government
would pay any legal expenses incurred by
Arthur in the royal commission, Cahill
replied: “The Government made no grant
on legal fees.” The exact wording of
this reply may have some significance.
• •
Every new report of bigger and better
bombs or improved methods of spreading
rapidly fatal germs is a setback to those
earnest souls who think of civil defence
in terms of 1939-45, At talks in Canberra
Federal and State officers agreed that a
civil-defence school should be established
to train key personnel to form a nucleus
in each State, and that civil-defence
organisation should be planned “on
general fines.” But the official statement
added, rather dolefully, that “the existing
situation did not warrant any further
discussion at this stage.”
• •
Major political sensation of the week
in Melbourne was the infiltration of rail-
way property by Comrade J. J. Brown,
former secretary of the A.R.U., in defi-
ance of the departmental order forbid-
ding him to enter the premises. Invited
to speak at a farewell-party to a fore-
man-painter, he had his address tape-
recorded and sent along tbe record.
• •
The most gratuitous criticism of the
Indo-China settlement was that of Arthur
Calwell, who from somewhere up in the
warmth of the Northern Territory con-
veyed the impression that if external
affairs had been in his hands he would
have wagged a very determined finger at
the Communists, with altogether different
results. During the election-campaign he
gave no signs of having any policy at all
on Indo-China, and for three years he and
the party he helped to lead into the
wilderness have refused to take the seats
offered them in the Joint Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
• •
The idea of a railway being built and
run by private enterprise is almost heresy
in this country where the making of
losses on railway-systems is a Govern-
ment monopoly, but Sir John Allison,
president of the Melbourne Chamber of
Commerce, has risked being burnt at the
stake in front of Flinders-street station
by suggesting the formation of a public
MAN AT WORK
company to give Melbourne an “under-
ground.” A short while ago the Ameri-
can Utah Construction Co. announced
that it would be prepared to build a city
tube-railway in three years at a cost of
£l5 million.
• •
Britain’s Minister for the Board of
Trade, Derick Heathcoat-Amory, com-
menting on a hope expressed by the presi-
dent of the American Chamber of Com-
merce that sterling-dollar convertibility
would be achieved within a year, said
that “Britain could hope, perhaps, for
free convertibility of sterling into foreign
currencies, including dollars, within the
next twelve months.” However, he
underlined the “perhaps.” Incidentally,
this was almost Heathcoat-Amory’s last
statement in that post; the following day,
in the Cabinet reshuffle, he became
Minister for Agriculture, the Board of
Trade job going to A. R. W. Low,
formerly Parliamentary Secretary,
Ministry of Supply.
• •
An Aiherican climber claims he has
sighted Noah’s Ark high up on 17,000 ft.
Mt. Ararat. He plans to climb up to
make sure. Wouldn’t it be much easier
to go by flying-saucer?
• •
“Labor’s” almost instinctive attempts
to link gambling with charity and social
service is rather nauseating. Latest ex-
ample is the plea to the Cain Government
by Victorian Assembly rank-and-falers to
legislate for extension of betting facilities
on dog-racing. The suggested bill is
euphemistically called a reform bill, ana
its sponsors argue that revenue from a
dog-tote could be used “to help retarded
children, kindergartens and other worthy
causes.” Why don’t they honestly admit
that they want a tote because they know
their constituents enjoy a bet or because
the dog-owners want bigger crowds to
ensure bigger prize-money? Why look
further for worthy causes?
• •
Victoria’s new obscenity laws are now
in force, and Crown Law officials have
power to launch prosecutions against
publications alleged to be smutty. Publi-
cations of a political, religious, profes-
sional, cultural and scholastic nature and
newspapers are excluded from the pro-
visions of the Act, but pictorial and
literary offal aren’t.
Distributors of printed matter are
required to register with the Chief Sec-
retary’s Department, and a prosecution for
the sale of an obscene publication can
mean the cancellation of registration.
This seems rather a savage provision;
the Queensland alternative of a board to
review doubtful publications seems a
better scheme. The Victorian plan places
the onus of censorship on the distributors ;
naturally the tendency for these is to play
safe, with the result that some are becom-
ing cautious to the point of absurdity.
• •
The Queensland board has issued its
first list of banned publications—mostly
“comics” of the horror-war variety.
• •
Liberal T. A. Hiley has resigned as
party-leader in the Queensland Parliament
on the grounds that he finds himself
unable either to carry out the duties of
leader on a private member’s salary or
alternatively to give adequate attention to
the leadership and his business of public
accountant at the same time. The Libs
have only eight members in the Queens-
land Assembly, and G. F. Nicklin, leader
of the Country-party’s team of 15, is
official Opposition-leader.
Hiley has been Liberal leader since
1949, when he succeeded Bruce Pie
Present deputy-leader is K. J. Morris.
• •
A referendum on hotel closing-hours
in N.S.W. is tipped for mid-October, most
likely on a regional basis which will
enable country districts to determine their
hours independently of Sydney. There is
logic in this differentiation, but union-
pressure prevents the Cahills from apply-
ing it in the case of shopping-hours, for
which there is an equally strong argument.
In any case, a liquor-referendum is
merely a way of passing the buck; any
Government worthy of the name and
armed with the Maxwell Report, would
make its own liquor-laws instead of
sheltering behind a referendum. If a
referendum is the right democratic way
of fixing closing-time for pubs, why isn’t
it the democratic way of deciding ques-
tions like compulsory unionism?
• •
“In the ACT”; Before the meetings of
the Libs’ Federal executive in Canberra
president W. H, Anderson announced
that it would consider a campaign “to
bring the Liberal party even closer to
those occupational groups which have
lost faith in the Labor party.” He cited
the results of the last three elections as
proof that a great proportion of wage-
earners and unionists now regularly vote
Liberal, a trend accelerated by Liberal
economic policies and “the fragmentation
of the Labor party through bitter internal
feuds.” The party also plans to work
among New Australians, with Anderson
expressing the well-founded belief that
“the anti-Liberal policies of the Opposi-
tion make no appeal to our new friends
abroad.” The party is planning an overall
expansion of its activities as a national
party. Perhaps the new drive into the
enemies’ camp may distract some of the
“Labor” people this week from their first
objective—the Evatt scalp.
• •
“Mugga Way”: It’s getting harder to
market our food-exports. But that is not
what the Agricultural Council said in
Canberra. Here’s a slice of its three pages
of pomposity;
Changes in the marketing system and the
demands of markets have raised many
problems. Australia is at present in the
transitional phase of adjustment, and in this
period the inherent difficulties and prob-
lems are often subject to exaggeration. The
Agricultural Council does not subscribe to
exaggerated reports in this regard, but
emphasises that the difficulties and problems
are inevitably associated with the substan-
tial changes which are taking place in the
marketing structure and present market
trends.
There must be something in the agricul-
tural portfolios which make their holders
use a hundred words where ten would do.
• •
Whatever arguments the wharfies use
to support their claims for a wage-rate of
£1 an hour they won’t be able to say
they’ve earned it by increased efficiency.
The Stevedoring Industry Board con-
fessed last week that the average turn-
round of ships is much slower than it
was a year ago and has, in fact, slipped
back to the rate of the bad old days of
1951,
• ’ •
“Stromlo”: Prospectors anxious to
seek oil off the West Australian coast
will be interested in “artificial islands”
now being built of steel in the South
China Sea, nearly a mile off the coast
of British Borneo. These are associated
with the Seria oilfield, one of the largest
single fields in the British Commonwealth,
and they will supplement an existing
supply. Four separate wells can be
drilled from each platform, and aerial
ropeways to the shore will carry work-
men and equipment to overcome the
hazards of the frequent storms in the
area. But perhaps our drilling offshore
had better await the decision of the
International Court on our continental-
shelf dispute with Nippon. That case is
being awaited with some anxiety by oil
interests in the Mexican Gulf and off the
Californian coast, as well as by most
other maritime nations.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
T’VE been worried about George. He
is on the staff of one of those Sydney
councils whose affairs have been the
subject of nasty inquiries—take your pick
which one. I’ve been anxiously watching
the Press for a report of George’s grill-
ing by the investigator. Now George
has set my mind at rest. He has, he
tells me, an absolutely foolproof racket
of his own: he never robs his council or
the ratepayers of a razoo, not so much
as a pin or a screw. He is consistently
and completely honest, and there’s just
nothing anyone can do about it. —“Hist,”
♦l* ❖
“5G.R.”: I have been billed
£1 19s. 6d. for my son’s school-cadet
boots. In a long Army career, I recollect
being billed for ammunition, revolver
.455, on an Indian Frontier show when
I exceeded the official issue of 11 rounds
(“the last one for yourself”); I have had
to share the cost of a mule to carry my
kit; I have had to pay for my own
rations, such as they were (bits of meat,
just killed). But I have never had to pay
for Army boots that carried me into
some unpleasant places. Surely the
country is not that hard-up!
❖ ♦♦♦ *
“Tasma”; Melburnite Frederick
Sutherland lost his memory some years
ago. The other night he saw himself in
a dream using a telephone-number—
Burnside 2333 W. Having a vague recol-
lection that he had once lived in Windsor
(Ontario), he wrote to the mayor there;
officials dug up an old telephone-book,
found to whom the number had been
issued, contacted him, and discovered
“How d ’ y ’ do, Mrs. Mackerel?”
that Sutherland had lived with him for
eight years, then left for England. Pub-
lished in a Launceston paper, the story
produced another link. A carpenter at
Winnaleah, north-east Tasmania, recog-
nised the accompanying photo as that
of his brother, not seen since 1937, and
at once telephoned Russell-street police
in Melbourne. Turned out that Frederick
Sutherland was badly wounded in a
British destroyer in War I, injured again
in a motor-smash in England after the
war, came to Australia, then left for
China in 1937 —after that, blank, till a
dream brought two brothers together.
Another brother, Harry, has been miss-
ing since 1922, when he was second-mate
of the Agamemnon, in the China Sea.
It’s hoped that Fred’s publicity might
bring Harry to light; hope this can help
them.
♦l* ❖
“Sackville”: The grade was steep, the
road rough, and with us two beefy blokes
in the sulky I let the old pony walk.
Came the ring of a bike-bell, and a girl
in slacks, riding a man’s bike, passed us.
About five minutes later
we turned a sharp bend.
Immediately the moke
shied and swung away
from an object sprawled
on the road. It was the
girl, tangled up with the
bike. As we came running
to her aid she lifted her
head and I saw she had
been crying. “Where are
you hurt?” we asked to-
gether. “I’m not hurt at
all,” she answered in a
low voice ; “1.., I’m
caught and I can’t get
up.” She was, and she
couldn’t. The leg of her
slacks had slipped under
the chain, had been
carried on to the gear-
wheel, and was securely
spiked on the cogs. There
appeared to be only two
ways of releasing her.
We took her chain off.
❖ ♦> *
“ Narumee ”: That
“Who left the radiator
on?” joke-block of the
melting wax-works threw
me back to when I visited
Madame Tussaud’s. A shrill altercation
on the pavement proved to be an irate
Scotswoman lambasting a sullen and
devilish-looking small boy: “The verra
ideer-r-r! Taking in your father’s bloo-
lamp indeed!” Tugging, as she spoke,
the offending article out of Mac Junior’s
grip. Beholding my pop-eyed stare, she
said: “The limb! I might’ve known he’d
no good purr-pose wanting to pay
another visit here. It’s that executioner-r
in the Chamberrr of Horror-r-rs! He
just can’t abide him!” Young Scotland
intent on liquidating the villain who held
the axe eternally poised over Mary,
Queen of Scots.
■*&
“Viper”: Compulsory drunkenness will
be a happy concomitant of the next war
—for “a very large quantity of sake,"
Jap scientists declare, “is the only safe-
guard against atom burns.” So next time.
instead of respirators, anti-gas, we’ll carry
flasks, plonk, anti-atomic. It is to be
hoped local stuff will prove as effective
as the Japanese rice-brew. In a travel-
book, Sir Osbert Sitwell speaks of
“another rice-wine (which I trust I have
not sampled).... fortified with pigeon-
droppings.” Occasional misgivings about
our home-grown red-nell seldom reach
quite so far as this. But it is very sad to
think that the next outbreak of war will
signal the arrest of the president of Alco-
holics Anonymous—on a charge of sub-
versive activity.
“Muskeen”: Recalling hotel days (B.
21/7/’54). Seeking accommodation, I
was told that I would have to share not
only a room but a double-bed. There
was nothing else for it, and I retired to
sleep without seeing my room-mate.
Waking later, I found the light on, and
was agreeably surprised to see a pyjama-
clad figure seated at the dressing-table
combing shoulder-length auburn locks.
More intimate examination revealed that
my bedfellow was bearded as well; mem-
ber of a religious sect which forbids the
cutting of its members’ hair.
* ❖ ❖
“Metralia”; The American gentleman
who has just pioneered the seabed as a
camping-ground off the coast of Florida
may have inaugurated a most disturbing
trend. His domestic venture into the sea
“Anyone in?”
could prove as epoch-making as that of
our Darwinian ancestor who first ven-
tured out of it. Despite the march of
science, the world still tends to over-
populate itself. Since four-fifths of its
surface lies beneath the sea, why can’t
Emoh Ruo (pressurised) transfer itself
to the submarine slime? Commuters,
irritably waiting for the next diving-bell,
could scarcely wait longer than today’s
tram- and train-victims. # One likes the
picture of hubby, wearing the latest in
oxygen outfits, out mowing the front sea-
weed. And no doubt a wife’s catching
her husband reading Arnold’s “The For-
saken Merman” would become legal
grounds for divorce.
♦J. ♦> o*4
“Mullum”: Though it is not new to
slang, the word “bag” is evidently gain-
ing recognition as good English in one
particular application. A taxi pulled up
at a large hotel and a well-dressed gent,
stepped out. He turned to assist his com-
panion from the car, and the driver said
“I’ll carry your bag inside.” The w.-d.g.
smiled slightly and replied “It’s all right,
my man, she can walk,”
Ijjt
“Pawang”: A London magistrate has
advanced the proposition that the chil-
dren of broken marriages should have a
say about their custody before the court
makes its decision. How are they going
to do it? A child may like his father
and not his mother, or vice versa, or like
both parents. If he is asked to decide
between the two he must inevitably be
thrown into a conflict between his beliefs
and feelings. The position is even
worse if the court rules that the mother
is the guilty party, and he likes both
parents. How can he choose between
the father he likes but believes to be the
injured party, and the mother he loves
but believes is the injurer of his father
without producing a conflict in himself?
As Freud has shown, it is just these types
of conflicts which are the most fertile soil
for delinquency and neurosis.
»> -I* ♦>
“Arjee”: I am an Australian who has
travelled in 36 countries, experienced the
delights of two wars and one revolution,
who knows America and Americans as
well as the next bloke. But never, any-
where, have I heard the adjective
“durned.” Accordingly I was pained (Red
Page 14/7/’54) to be reminded of “John
O’Brien’s” line in “Ten-Twelve Shebang”
—“ls trotted out by some durned
g0at....” Shame on the .grand Father
Hartigan for an out-of-character equivo-
cation !
❖ +♦♦
“J.J.A.”: Was taken by Heth’s
“Romance v. Economics” cartoon (B.
14/7/’54), but our local minister refuses
to accept anything for marriages on the
ground that the sacraments of the Church
should not be sold. Hold on, you fellers,
before I give you his address—what’s it
worth?
♦> ♦:+ *>
“Mugga Way”; It’s difficult to under-
stand the mentality of persons who pre-
serve war “souvenirs” likely to cause
death by explosion. There must be
thousands of such objects still in homes
and rubbish-tips, many becoming in-
creasingly lethal as their explosive con-
tents deteriorate. Recently two live
grenades in a highly dangerous state
were found in a home, hanging on nails
by the rings which would be pulled to
explode them. A warrant-officer had
taken two 20mm. shells from children
playing in a street, and a 3001 b. high
explosive anti-personnel aerial bomb,
certain to kill anyone within 60yds., and
fully fused ready for detonation, had
been found under a house. Anyone
owning such beasties should report them
to the police at once if they don’t want to
figure in an early inquest report.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Stromlo”: Coronation-year gave the
Royal Mint in Britain a good deal of
extra and profitable work. The total out-
put last year exceeded 456 million pieces,
of which 222 million were for the United
Kingdom, 109 million for overseas terri-
tories in the Commonwealth, and 125
million for foreign countries that like to
have their coinage struck in Britain.
The Mint attributed the British demand
partly to the desire for coinage of the
new reign, but mostly to the large and
persistent demand for shillings and six-
pences, which now have to be used in
place of pennies to operate slot-machines,
especially gas- and electricity-meters.
Estimated that 175 million shillings alone
are permanently immobilised in such
meters. Nearly six million crown pieces
were struck, in addition to a million
and a half complete sets of the new coin-
age for collectors.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Macnell”; It’s just on one hundred
years ago since a young lieutenant per-
formed an act of valor which won him
the first naval Victoria Cross. Lieutenant
Charles Davis Lucas was at his action-
station aboard the sloop Hecla during a
bombardment of a fort in the Aland
Islands, in the Baltic, A shell from the
enemy battery landed on the sloop’s
deck; Lucas unhesitatingly picked it up,
its fuse spluttering, staggered to the side
and heaved it overboard. The shell ex-
ploded just before hitting the water.
Specially and immediately promoted to
commander, Lucas was awarded the
Baltic Medal. On the institution of the
V.C., on January 29, 1856, he was
strongly recommended by Admiral Sir
Charles Napier, and was decorated with
his Cross by Queen Victoria in 1857.
He finished as an Admiral. Since then
117 V.C.s have been won by officers
and men of the Royal Navy and its
Reserves.
LOVE-SONG
“Sydney is to have a £500,000 ‘radio-eye’ to
search outer space, and Melbourne a factory to
produce ‘electronic brains’ that will ‘quarter
accounting staffs’.”
Oh, Sydney's giant radio-eye,
Taking a distant view.
May tell the searcher of the sky
If Superman is true.
And Melbourne’s electronic brain,
Making up accounts,
Can cut the staffs they now maintain
A fourth of their amounts.
But eye can’t tell if you are true
Or brain account for what
You do, or why 1 fall for you,
Whether you are or not.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


IT would be a most unobserving husband
who has not noticed his wife put
down the newspaper and take on a rapt,
thoughtful look; then, with a too-casual
air, ask: “When did the Queen leave
Australia-first of April, wasn’t it?” A
really perceiving bloke would have noted
that a counting of fingers was going on,
ending at nine I’ve always had a scath-
mg contempt for women who can’t hear
of a possible family-event without launch-
ing into this counting business, but in
this particular case . . . H’mm . . . don’t
know that there wouldn’t be something
sort of nice about . . . close link with
Australia . . . etc. . . . Good heavens,
what am I saying now?—“Fair Mac.”
+
* ** v
“Bagot”: What is the mental age of
the average radio-quiz contestant? Two
adult Australians faced the big question
ou a national hook-up: “Who said that
“Then suddenly, at about nine thousand feet, the canopy blew of."
the battle of Waterloo was won on the
playing-fields of Eton?” A long silence ;
the female partner ventures: “Aw, it
must have been an author; Shakspeare
or one of them.” Then, gratefully grab-
bing the quizmaster’s generous prompting,
“Come now, who took a big part at
Waterloo?” the male of the pair con-
fidently drawled: “Lord Nelson.”
* ❖ *!♦
“Becks”: Scorning the appellation
“Shopkeepers’ Association,” the business
people in our suburb have their own
Chamber of Commerce, an energetic body
which looks after their interests and does
a very good job of persuading residents
to patronise the local shops. I doubt,
however, whether it is assisted much by
the pen-name adopted by the scribe who
chronicles its doings in the “Free Weekly”
distributed in the district. He signs his
column “The Chamber Snooper.”
* * ❖
“Balwyn”; Every young Hopalong fan
in Adelaide must envy the two local
policemen who have been appointed
deputy-sheriffs of Harris County, Texas,
Two years ago an officer from a U.S.
cargo-ship putting in at the City of
Churches found the helpful and congenial
friendship of these cops invaluable in a
strange country. He showed his gratitude
by persuading the police department back
home in Houston to part with a couple
of real deputy-sheriff badges, which he
duly presented on his second visit. The
recipients are the only constables outside
America to be thus honored; and if they
ever find themselves in Texas they’ll enjoy
the same powers and privileges as the
local boys,
’
“Coalsmoke”: Not all those K-class
submarines (B. 23/6/’54) were unlucky.
A few of them, armed with 12in.
guns, were quite successful, and remark-
ably good diving boats ; the weight of
the huge gun helped them to submerge
very quickly. Moreover, they were big
enough to serve as an excellent platform
for the gun, and the tremendous recoil
when it fired did not (as the prophets
of woe had said) capsize them out of
hand. However, they were kept on the
secret-list until after the war, and never
used against the enemy —it becoming
obvious that the idea would be far more
useful to the Germans than to us. On
one boat the gun was replaced by a small
seaplane in a hangar. It was from this
submarine that the French got the idea
for their own big Surcouf.
♦♦♦ * ❖
“Operus”: By conducting with such
Latin ferocity as to fall off
the stage, Mr. Eugene Goossens
has shattered the tradition of
British phlegm. Was he goaded to this
overplus of feeling by the visit of his
Italian rival. Signor Galliera? And, if
so, what will be the next move? Signor
Galliera will be hard-pressed to put on a
“turn”’ more Latin than that of Mr.
Goossens. At this rate, the'armaments of
Yankee footballers will soon be standard
dress for conductors about to mount their
podiums.
*X* ❖
“Jay”: “Parram” (B. 21/7/’54) might
change his tune when Parliament resumes
and dominates our radio-programme.
Let me assure him that collectors of long-
playing records save them for use during
the dreary weeks of Parliamentary de-
bates, which are certainly not music to
our ears. My pet piano-concertos have
been packed in mothballs since I ve had
the pleasure of hearing artists like Richard
Farrell and Solomon play them; but
when the season is over and the only
alternative is Eddie Ward and Doc. Evatt
I’ll be grateful for them, and be damned
to whether Savonarola would have
smashed the lot!
“Bo”: It is not only the celebrated
violinist or pianist who takes precautions
to protect his valuable hands. The
square-jawed, two-gun celluloid hero in
the Western had been trapped by the
villain, who lassoed him by one ankle
and dragged him for 100yds, on his
stomach over the boulder-strewn ground.
Another man in like predicament would
have thoughtlessly tried to save his head
by taking his weight on his hands. But
the hero was far-sighted. He knew he’d
be abandoned for dead, and that within
a few hours he’d want to handle a gun.
So with exeat presence of mind he let his
face take the bumps. It was a gory mess ;
“Can you identify yours?”
but later his tactics were completely jus-
tified, for with about the 10th consecu-
tive shot out of his six-shooter (without
reloading, of course) he got him. And
such was the healing-power of his skin
that next morning nary a trace remained
of the battering his dial had been sub-
jected to.
* ❖
“Sister Ellell”: One war-time medico
disliked the term “blackout” (B. 21/7/’54)
so much that mention of it never tailed
to raise his blood-pressure. To the
Digger who had been so afflicted the night
before as to warrant his admission to
Camp Hospital, the scornful question
was always the same: “What dyou
mean, blackout ?” In one case the
patient replied in best Texan, “Waal, sir,
I guess I packed up.” “Oh?” said the
m.o. “I gather, then,-that you did not
get away?”
♦> ❖
“Cauboy”: On this Australian
accent. A Melbourne actress remarked
the other day that Australians spoke
badly because they lacked confidence
and were nervous. Nonsense! All Aus-
tralians don’t lack confidence, but the
majority have a distinctive slur, recog-
nisable the world over. I have recog-
nised it coming from the interior of a
Customs barge on a canal in provincial
China; the Customs official, blowing up
his boy for accepting a bribe of soap
from a passing merchant, certainly wasn’t
nervous, though the boy was. Australians
speak as they do from habit. Some
might feel nervous if they went into an
English drawing-room —because of a
traditional belief that the prevailing
English accent is the standard for
educated people. It isn’t. Shaw and
Wells were educated men, but they cer-
tainly didn’t speak like Oxford or Cam-
bridge when they spoke on films or in
Australia; neither did Bertrand Russell.
And who’s to say that one habit is better
or worse than the other?
“Muskeen”: Reckon there is some-
thing in a psychiatrist’s trying to obtain
“transference” with his patients (B.
14/7/’54). But is it possible to com-
pletely and permanently cure an illusion?
I remember the case of the man who,
imagining that he was a dog, took a rest-
cure in a home run by a psychiatrist.
When he was “cured” and returned to
his home, his wife remarked on his health
and heartiness; to which he replied that
it was all due to regular hours and good
tucker, and wound up with the request
to “Just feel how cold my nose is.”
* * *
“C.B.”: A clerical gent, who criticised
Tatt.’s in Melbourne got a backhander
from a homeless spinster. She said she
went in for lotteries and prayed that she
would win—having lost a house to a
church through a will having been broken.
She had been told by the authorities of
the church in question that the house is
hers, but she hasn’t yet got it back. So
all she Can do is to see if she won’t have
better luck in life’s gamble by buying a
few lottery tickets.
*X* ***
“G.”: Loyalty has landed 250 employees
of an N.S.W. factory in a position which,
to say the least, they must find incongru-
ous. At time of writing, they’re on strip
because the company decided to dismiss
a youth. The day before he was to finish
said youth was injured, and .went off on
compensation; this he will until
sufficiently recovered to return for formal
sacking. Meanwhile, his staunch sup-
porters are also off —without pay!
“Craiser”: The old Theatre Royal
block in Melbourne’s Bourke-street,
where Poverty Point once flourished, has
been sold for £300,000 to haberdasher
Manton, whose slogan is It Pays_to
Thrifty.” A thrifty gent, named Robert
Campbell bought it in 1838 for £914s.
This works out at an increase of 3333-i-
repeating per cent, on the original
purchase.
Maroubra Invasion
THE boat walked towards the beach
on long oars, across a Caribbean-
blue sea. The crew o. bearded, belted
and knived ruffians stared eagerly about,
searching. Consulting a medalhon slung
from a leather thong, the leader jumped
ashore, gesturing his bloodthirsty gang to
not Long John Silver,” hissed a
wide-eyed nipper. “He’s got two legs.
But Long John it was—minus parrot;
it had bitten him earlier at Pagewood—
as was proved some minutes later to what
must have been 90 per cent, of the whole
child population of .Sydney s Maroubra
Rfinch
How they found out that scenes for
“Long John Silver” were to be filmed
this gloriously sunny Saturday morning
at Maroubra is a mystery ; the fact was
not advertised. But. here they were, in
hundreds, goggle-eyed as the villainous
invaders, complete with powder-horns,
3-inch belts, cutlasses, knives and cali-
skin leggings, searched for the treasure-
cave. . .
With Lloyd Berrell, in the picture the
swarthy Spanish captain Toro Mendoza,
now on a busman s holiday, we met
Robert Newton, left leg temporarily re-
turned to a vertical position, and found
him surprisingly shy and diffident.
Watched Israel Hands (whom Jim
Hawkins in another place had blinded
with a pistol-shot) fit opaque white con-
tact-lenses in his eyes, and turn from a
normal, scraggy-haired ruffian into a
horrific madman (gasps); watched young
Jim Hawkins, momentarily free of the
persecutions of his murderous captors,
playing marbles while Long John urged
his team on ; and win four, having, as
father Grant Taylor wondered, arrived
on the beach with none in the first place
—obviously a product of environment.
For us, most interesting; for the kids,
a dream come true. That secluded cave
overlooking the Pacific, painted for tech-
nicolor purposes with bold red daubs by
Bill Constable, will for long be pointed
out by Saturday’s privileged audience to
lesser mortals from landlocked suburbs.
Known, I’d bet a doubloon, henceforth
and for ever as “The Pirate Cave.”
Macnell.
MEDICAL MANNERS
“An article in the British medical journa
‘Lancet’ warns general practitioners that tn
danger of inducing illness in their patients oy
making injudicious remarks to them is great.
You’ll do a disservice
To patient who’s nervous
About a cough which she terms
“bronichal,”
By cheerfully saying
You think she’s decaying (
Because it’s now hopelessly “chronical.
And if one you’re treating
Complains that on eating
He nigh chokes, and wants some reports
on it.
Your work you will mull, sir,
By saying his ulcer
Has probably now got some warts
on it.
There’s little to gain from
This: therefore refrain from
Remarking an op. wound is heatable.
But only provided
One doubt is decided:
His gore is the type that’s congealable.
Never say to a cutie
Who (rather a beauty )
Comes in to ensure she’s insurable
She’s most photogenic.
If she’s nhurasthenic
She might think that’s something
incurable.
On blood-pressure taking
Try not to be making
Remarks such as “Struth !” with deep
gravity. -
Should you tell someone sickly
To make her will quickly
Please do so in manner of suavity.
Yet, though you deem vital
The organ-recital,
Learn this lesson —and with rapidity :
Don’t bring up the matter
Of bills in your chatter —
Or you’ll induce awful morbidity.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


You can rely on
VI
‘pressurised’
Sri
TAA’s five pressurised Convairs have played an important part in TAA’s
unmatched record of service. In less than eight years of operation, TAA’s fast,
dependable airliners have carried over four million passengers safely to their
destination.
?tJAA ~ilx£
Just phone BO 526 or any authorised Travel Agent.
1
NPNesB
PERSONAL ITEMS
Landed in Sydney by air from Hono-
lulu, E. Allen Petersen and wife, travel-
lers used to somewhat hardier crossings.
A year or so back Petersen (American
merchant captain and osteopathic
physician), with his wife, sailed West-
wards across the Pacific in an old junk,
of the type which has traded off the China
coast for centuries. Nine-feet in beam,
their craft drew 2^ft.; drew, also, volumes
of water through frequent openings in
her timber-work, requiring almost end-
less baling with coconut half-shells. But
she held together long enough to notch
a record for what is claimed to be the
smallest craft to cross the Pacific in
modern times. Petersen put their adven-
tures on the trip into In a Junk Across
the Pacific, just published in London.
While in these parts the pair will look
in on Papua, to see what’s left of their
old craft.
• •
Come up from Bermagui (on the
N.S.W. South Coast) for a few days in
the Big Smoke, Arthur Upfield, coinci-
dentally with the arrival in Sydney of his
BOOKS
latest book, Death of a Lake, and a few
days before his Cake in the Hat Box
was due to hit the bookstalls in America.
Upfield became a professional writer at
about the same time as Idriess and Hat-
field, and has since produced a book
pretty well every year—24 to date. In
1942 Walter Cousins, of Angus and
Robertson, sent six of Upfield’s titles to
A. and R.’s New York agent: Doubleday
and Co. took the lot. So Detective-In-
spector Napoleon Bonaparte made his
first bow to the Yanks —26,000 times.
Now over 600,000 copies of the Bony
series have sold in the U.S.; Ernest
Hooten, late Professor of Anthropology
at Harvard, in lectures recommended his
students to study Upfield’s characters,
both chief and secondary. Upfield
reckons much of his success over there
stems from his backgrounds—Americans
wishing to read about Australia; having
enough sex, filth and poverty of their
own. Now one of Australia’s most-sell-
ing scribes, Upfield, at 64, has “only to
turn out a book every nine months.”
Which means five months’ labor and fouf
months’ play. Which means anything
from deep-sea fishing to driving a truck
round Australia.
• •
Shifting moorings from Fremantle,
where he has been the Department of
Shipping marine branch’s deputy-direc-
tor, Captain A. N. Boulton goes to a
newly created berth as regional-director
of the branch in Victoria. Earlier a ship-
surveyor in Queensland and N, S. Wales,
he was afloat during War 11, which
qualified him for his past year on the
R.S.L State executive. While there he
secured for the Merchant Navy a place
in the Anzac Day marches.
“Sem”; I was a student under Profes-
sor A. Killen Macbeth, lately retired from
the Chair of Chemistry at Adelaide
University, They didn’t come any
shrewder; he could pick a phony excuse
quicker than Young Griff o could pick a
fly off the wall, and he believed in giving
his embryo chemists the works when it
came to quotas of study for exams. So
much so that a group of us produced the
following by mass inspiration; hope it
tickles his memory:
There once was a prof, called Macbeth,
Who worked all his students to death.
They said, “We’re not willin’
To stand all this killin’.
We’ll soon be A Killen Macbeth!”
• •
Colonel Richard Dowse, D. 5.0., was
entertained in Sydney by his friends of
the Round Table, Imperial Service Club,
on his 88th birthday. The grand old
Regular, born in England in 1866, first
gained the Queen’s Commission on
October 30, 1889, in the English Volun-
teers. Coming to Australia early in the
’nineties and joining the Militia, he served
in Queensland until leaving for the South
African War. The routine job of a
staff officer ultimately raised him to be
2/i.c. in the memorable camp at Albury
where the sar’-majors for the compulsory-
training scheme were trained in 1910 in
readiness for the introduction of the
Kitchener plan. The First A.1.F., in
which a great proportion of trainees
served, know how well he did his job.
Colonel Dowse went to the First World
War as A.A.&Q.M.G, Fourth Division,
A.I.F. Retired shortly after the war, in
the days before pensions of any value
were granted in the Army, he was Mar-
shal to the Chief Justice of the High*
Court for several years, and came back
from retirement to lend a hand on the
organising side in War 11. Now safely
ensconced in the War Veterans’ Home at
Narrabeen, the old soldier still visits the
city each month for the meeting of the
Corps of Commissionaires.
• ®
One of the most notable centenarians
in Australian history—John Clancy, of
Warracknabeal (Vic.). He had his
appendix out on his 100th birthday and
is doing well.
• •
-Swallowed the anchor after close to
half a century of blue-watering, 30 years
of it with the Orient Line, Captain T. L.
Shurrock—widely known in Australian
shipping as skipper of the new Oronsay,
which he brought here from England on
her maiden run a couple of years back.
He had his first real taste of saltwater
when, apprentice at the time, his craft
was sent under by a U-boat’s gunfire in
1917, In again for the next scrap, he cap-
tained the Orient’s Ormonde when she
landed troops in the North African and
Sicilian invasions. Since the end of War
II Shurrock has commanded, with one
exception, every ship in the Orient Line.
• •
Just-retired Oswald Gawler had been
chief figure-man for the Victorian Gov-
ernment since 1934. In his time mixed
up with assurance (Sydney and Mel-
bourne), actuarial duties (Perth, Adelaide)
and stockbroking (Melbourne), he had
five years with the First A.1.F., and is a
long-standing member of Legacy—in 1943
its Melbourne president. Sixty-five last
week.
• •
Passed on in Perth, Dr. James Sykes
Battye, whose tall, slim figure had moved
to good effect in Westralia’s cultural and
educational circles for more than 60
years. He had been principal of the State
Public Library since 1894; secretary of
the Royal Commission whose finding
resulted in the establishment of Wes-
tralia’s University ; was a foundation-
member of the uni. senate, pro-chancel-
lor for five years, chancellor for six ; one
of the founders of Perth Children’s Hos-
pita! ; for years a member of the govern-
ing board of two large secondary schools;
and, after occupying it for 16 years, he
vacated the chair of Grand Master of
Westralian Freemasonry two years back,
at 80. In between these offices he found
time to write the history of his State, and
to edit its encyclopaedia.
• •
“Ceg”: Of Murray River skippers,
only a few remain on deck. It’s a long
step from Captain Randall, of the first
steam-paddler, to Captain Edgar Griffin,
who still plies up and down from Ren-
mark (S.A.) as master of the new diesel-
driven paddler Coonawarra. Griffin has
lived on and off the Big River and Lake
Alexandrina for very many years; he’s
a local Mark Twain on the Murray
from its lower reaches near Goolwa to
beyond Echuca —1059 miles. As a
travelling picture-showman in the days
of the “silents” he played many parts,
from driving the 6 h.p. De Dion one-
cylinder car in which he and his brother
conveyed their apparatus to the 31 towns
in which they showed, to acting as self-
taught pianist providing the music. In
1940 the brothers designed and built the
paddler Merle, running a passenger ser-
vice from Murray Bridge to Morgan ;
on the death of his brother, Edgar shipped
in 1952 as master of the Coonawarra.
It’s too much to hope that the Murray
will return to the days when 154 vessels
operated on it, but 1 with boats like
Coonawarra providing everything in the
way of comfort and good food Griffin
reckons that the grand old river will be-
come familiar to more and more Aus-
tralians.
• •
For close on 50 years G. T. C,
Harpham could be found in the Depart-
ment of Lands up Sydney’s Bridge-street
—for the past seven of them behind a
door marked Assistant Under-Secretary.
Now he’s relinquished his lien oh the
place, landed into retirement. Between
1944-46 the department’s Bills and Regu-
lations officer in that time, he drafted
legislation for the war-service land-
settlement scheme.
• •
Lusby looks here at Rex King, one
of the best-known figures at the Queens-
land Bar, with a wit to match his Puckish
phiz. In practice a scant three years
before War II opened, King got quickly
into the A.1.F., and gunnery; learned
his drill well enough for posting as an
instructor in artillery and anti-tank gun-
nery to the Northern Command school
of the science, by 1941 was brigade-
major and the following year had his own
battery. About this time someone re-
BAR
membered he was a barrister; result,
seconding to the Third Armored Division,
Permanent President of Courts-Martial.
The grin portrayed occurs more often to
the sound of good music than to the
drone of evidence, its owner being vice-
president of the Queensland National
Opera Society.
Off to Kenya to represent Westralia at
a conference of the Empire Parliamentary
Association, William Stewart Bovill,
holder of the Vasse seat for the Liberals
in the Westralian Assembly sinc£ 1950.
A banker before he entered politics, he’s
had one break from earthly affairs, flying
with the R.A.A.F. against Hitler and
Co., rank of flight-lieutenant.
Caught by Coventry on return from
conducting in England, HENRY KRIPS,
son of an Austrian medico, brother of
Joseph (conductor of the London Sym-
phony Orchestra), now himself recon-
ducting the South Australian Symphony
Orchestra.
“Jock”: If Newcastle (N.S.W.), not
now noted for its trees, becomes a centre
of arboreal beauty, mark the kudos up to
Dick Sievert, Greater Newcastle Council’s
parks and gardens supervisor, about to
retire. More than 15,000 trees have been
planted under his guidance. In his spare
time a member of the Agricultural
Bureau, Newcastle Dahlia Society and
the Horticultural Council, and instructor
to the Junior Farmers’ Club section of
the bureau, Sievert has also planned the
layout of tree-planting and park-construc-
tion at Dungog and Wingham, further on
up the coast.
• «L
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, J. H. Morish, known for long
in South Australian business, racing and motor-
ing. Manager of a firm of furniture-makers,
he was chairman of the Amateur Turf Club for
27 years, raced Cyclamen, Boronia and Lemonia,
and was a life-member and one of the first
chairmen of the Royal Automobile Association.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 61, just prior to
leaving for the Empire Games in Vancouver,
Robert Beattie, barrister, and president of the
Canterbury and New Zealand Athletic Associa-
tions. He was wounded at Passchendaele.
In Adelaide, at 50, Ernest Clarence Bridges,
general-manager of News, Ltd., publishers ot
the “News” and “Sunday Mail.” He started
as an office-boy with the “Advertiser,” within
18 years was assistant-manager, and went on
to a similar post with Melbourne “Herald.”
Through the late war years he managed the
Australian Newsprint Mills in Tasmania.
At 77, in Melbourne, Charles Tennant Briggs,
pioneer electrical engineer. Bom in England,
son of the founder of Briggs and Son, of London
and Manchester, he arrived in Australia in 1913
to supervise erection of Perth’s power-station.
Later the Victorian State Electricity Commis-
sion’s chief mechanical engineer, one of the
first five members of its staff, in 1944 he became
consulting engineer to the Adelaide Electricity
Supply Co.
In Perth, at 55, William Reginald de Gruchy,
former Westralian athlete, and father of athletic
champion Bill de Gruchy.
In Brisbane, at 81, William Harold Ryan,
Queensland Police Commissioner from 1924 to
1934. A constable in 1901, he rescued three
girls from drowning at Sarina Inlet (N.Q.), was
awarded the Royal Humane Society’s Bronze
Medal, and finished the job by marrying one of
the girls. An expert bushman, he pulled off
some of the North’s most remarkable man-
hunts with the aid of blacktracking teams;
cattle-thieves dubbed him “The Flying Ser-
geant.”


' 'to 6<lS ‘
A „ MO 00 r P* 36B
0f as
&no colo&saz a
OpnK, k 70 pLOuT
UPON OUR (U/VAy
matter nan ° K 1
Yoo\l A ° Fou< SBT oor
LL there Slack .
a,„
„
TS ' Afy sy_ '^I'ZT
** e/ '“■ c 0
y Bi K£ ,R 'V£
, yi.W' l0 ’
/C o •
V t <*- "
vr <&***'
•r ***** s^ 0 ' '
(ihztUßZ , r
W °* H***? ,r
***-S u
K£ you %
SUGGESTIONS
“N. S. Wales Railways Department has arranged a poster-competition. with prizes totalling £500; ‘poster, should be suitable for display on railway-
stations for the purpose of stimulating rail-travel.'"


ABORIGINALITIES
IN a script I prepared for the A.B.C. I
stated that a kangaroo which may
grow to be a boomer is only about an
inch long when placed in the mother’s
pouch, and a critic pointed out that the
joey isn’t placed in the pouch, but finds
his own way there. That is coming to
be the accepted theory, and the presence
of claw-like nails with which the joey is
equipped, and which drop off after he
reaches the pouch, seems to support the
theory. But practically all the observa-
tions have been made in zoos, among
well-fed, healthy animals that would be
expected Jo have sturdy young; and
even in the cases studied the mother
assists the joey to reach the pouch.
Sometimes she licks the fur to make a
path, and often she leans back to give the
kid a downhill run. In other words, she
does what’s necessary to ensure that the
joey reaches his destination; and if a
bush kangaroo gave birth to a joey that
was too weak to make his own way, I’ll
take a shade of odds she’d help him even
further. She may even place him in the
pouch with her mouth, as the old-timers
reckoned she did, or she may give some
help with her forepaws. She can cer-
tainly use these in a variety of ways, even
to boxing with them, or grasping dogs in
mid-stream and drowning them. Why,
then, couldn’t, or wouldn’t, she use them
to help her joey?—“Bass.”
* * * *
“Infantier”: On the range of hills
near Gympie (Q.) is a spotted-gum
stump, cut in 1930. It did not die, except
across the top, but neither did it throw
out suckers or shoots. It continued to
grow (outwards only, not upwards—to
the confusion of some of our bush
“experts”) and each year shed its bark,
so that the diameter of the green wood
was noticeably greater than that of the
inch or so depth of the dead wood at
the top of the stump. That its roots
must have grafted on to another tree’s
roots, so that it was living on its hosts’
leaves, seems proved by the fact that
a close-by spotted-gum was cut last
summer, and now the old stump has
broken into a mass of leaves. So far the
new stump has no shoots, and I’m now
waiting to see if the roles of the two are
going to be reversed.
* * * *
“Jackstay”: Am pondering a problem
even more baffling than the one about
the flies: what happens, at the onset of
winter, to the cunjevoi? In summer this
brown, tough-skinned animal covers
literally acres of rocky inter-tidal shelves
along the N.S.W. coast, providing fisher-
men with bait and the unwary peerer With
a squirt of water. In winter the same
rocks are completely bare. It can’t be
that they just get up and go, because,
although in its early stages the cunjy is
free-swimming, the adult appears to pos-
sess no means of locomotion at all. Fur-
ther, it doesn’t seem likely that winter
storms would sweep the growth away,
because it stays in place in summer,
when seas are just as heavy. The only
conclusion I can come to is that it
spawns, and forthwith dies, collapses,
and disintegrates within a tide or two —
and with a unanimity remarkable in an
animal so obviously devoid of a mass-
mind, or any mind at all, for that matter.
* * * *
“Snips”; “Where’d you get him,
Tom?” Tom went on rolling a cigarette
outside the cemetery. “Had him a long
time ; got him when I got the red truck.”
“Fair while,” old Harry pondered. “Must
be four year. Couldn’t have used him
much?” “Not much,” Tom agreed.
“Use the old tobacco-tin at home. But
you couldn’t bring him to a funeral, so
I’m using the noo pouch.”
* * * *
“Bellfield”: I’m no authority on cows,
but I’ve seen plenty of twin calves, and
I was somewhat surprised when my mate,
who’s had a lot of experience with
bovines, stopped the car to question a
boy driving a cow and calves along the
road. “Are those calves twins?” he asked
in incredulous voice. “Yes, mister,”
said the kid, and told him the cow was
the mother. “What breed was the bull?”
“Aberdeen-Angus,” the kid replied.
“That big black-’un of Clark’s, down near
the turn-off, is him.” As we started off
again ray mate said, “All twin calves
I’ve ever seen have been identical ones
or pretty close to it. That cow was a red
“With the cost of living as it is today , I don't know why they keep you."
Shorthorn and so was one twin. But
the other one was nearly all Aberdeen-
Angus.” I can’t see why unidentical
twins should be any more rare in bovines
than in humans, but
* » ♦ ♦
* “B. A. Ker”; “Ybsul,” writing of the
natives around Mt. Hagen, New Guinea,
mentions “the semi-yodelling patois” (B.
14/7/’54). Jack Hyde, in his Papuan
Wonderland, also recorded that natives
in the mountain areas explored by his
expedition yodelled to one another; and
a South African, Laurens van der Post,
in his book Venture to the Interior, states
that mountains natives of Nyasaland yodel
their conversations. And now my work-
mate, Swiss Charlie, assures me that
Swiss yodelling is not like the “begorrah”
of fictional Irishmen: it is used in the
mountains of Switzerland. There could
be no possible lingual link between the
natives of New Guinea and Nyasaland,
let alone Switzerland, so it seems reason-
able to conclude that the resonance of
mountains and valleys develops a ten-
dency in the human race to yodel.
* * * *
“Mingari”: Not all the gurnard
family, as lately claimed here by “Kelms,”
are flightless. The flying gurnard, of
which there are, according to T. C.
Roughley, two kinds in Australian
waters, is capable of short gliding flights.
However, they can’t work up enough
speed to gain the necessary im-
petus for sustained flight; and this
is due, from my observation, to the
“wings” not being big enough in rela-
tion to the body. All the gurnards are
beautifully colored, the wings spotted
with purple, green and black, and on the
N.S.W, coast they’re hauled up by the
trawlers in large quantities, the variety
known as “latchet” being most plentiful;
if skinned and properly cooked it is as
tasty as any fish in the sea. Normally
a bottom-feeder, gurnard was seldom
seen on the market until the steam-
trawlers began operating on the coastal
shelf around 1915. Until then, only odd
specimens came to light when hauled up
by line-fishermen after snapper.
* * * ♦
“Gulliver”: Allow me to amend the
observations of “Bass” (B. 21/7/’54) on
the trouble this earth has taken to 'make
life possible—and in passing to regret
that a little more wasn’t taken to make it
enjoyable as well, by omitting such things
as Monday mornings, taxes, dear beer,
and so on. The seasons are not due to
axial rotation, but are the result of the
earth’s progress along its elliptical path
around the sun —unless - I’m completely
misled by that fascinating page of acro-
batic planets which began my school
atlas. As for “Bass’s” admiration of our
planet’s neatly-adjusted position in rela-
tion to the sun, which thus produces just
the right temperature to support life, I
suggest that a few more thousand miles
either way would have simply resulted in
either a greater concentration of life at
the Poles, if we were nearer the sun, or
at the equator if we were further away.
The existence of a suitable atmosphere
seems to be the most important factor,
as witness the moon, which possesses
none, yet spins axially, gets plenty of
sun, and follows us around our season-
producing journey.
* * * #
“Bert the Carpenter”: Discovery that
the Comet crashes were due to “metal
fatigue” is significant, for it is a thing
with deadly possibilities. I saw this when
friends built their own boiler to supply
low-pressure steam in their factory. One
day there was a helluva bang and the
boiler, minus bottom, shot through the
roof. “It should have stood up,” its
maker said to the engineer they called
in. “We made it from 22-gauge sheet
steel. That should stand a pressure of
only ten pounds to the square inch.”
The engineer /snorted, “It will —in a
properly designed one. But you put in a
flat bottom with no dishing to prevent
a curved surface to the pressure, and no
stays. Every time you got up steam that
bottom bulged out a trifle. When you
drew the fire at knock-off time the bulge
flattened out again. The constant flexing
set up metal fatigue all round the edge.”
Exactly the same thing took place in the
fuselage of the Comets. Up at 40,000 ft.
the outside air-pressure dropped to less
than half what it was inside the pres-
surised hull, causing bulging. At sea-
level these bulges flattened out again.
Result, metal fatigue wherever any flex-
ing took place. Cost 99 lives.
* * ♦ ♦
“Spin”: A South African firm recently
sent some Westralian bakers a sample of
dried, milled seaweed and asked them
to try it out in bread. The producers
claimed that the seaweed was rich in
vitamins and minerals, that a small
amount added to the dough would halve
the fermentation period and reduce the
amount of yeast required, and that it
would keep the bread fresh twice as
long. The bakers found it didn’t measure
up to the claims, but they agreed that it
had some effect on dough-fermentation.
Well, a lot of things go into bread that
most consumers wouldn’t dream of, and
the job is becoming more scientific every
day. The up-to-date baker knows all
about fermentation, the constituents of
all the different types of water he’s likely
to meet, the chemical process that takes
place while the bread’s cooling off, and
so forth. About the only thing he doesn’t
know is how to bake bread like my old
mother used to make.
THE MUSHROOMER
Over the brow of the hill the mushroomer,
walking,
Felt the wind playing with arrows of hidden
frost.
Felt the air in his face like a steep cold river,
Felt the crying of lost
Lambs in his ears, and the airy ripple of wings.
Small wonder that he quite forgot his art
And, leaving his bucket empty, sat collecting
these things
Instead, in his heart.
Down in the gully where the autumn creek
Was yarning to the reeds about last week’s rain
He flung away his bucket, his wife, and ten-
years’ lamp-light,
And clutched at himself again.
The reeds trembled with pleasure, and all things
too,
At the sight of it: a magpie broke song on the
steep
Downward air, a cricket itched, and the long
slope of sheep
Cried out anew.
Even a young gum in the warmth of the hollow
there.
Where the sun was a golden pollen on its leaves,
Echoed his joy, lifted its head in the air,
And sang with bees.
S.A.
COLIN THIELE.
Westralia's Caves
TN B. 7/7/’54 “J.B.” was a bit out in
■ some of his facts. It was Grace
Bussell (with the double “11,” although
for some reason the town of Busselton,
named after the pioneer family, has it
singular) who became “Australia’s Grace
Darling,” It was another sister, how-
ever, who nearly rode over the lip of the
Lake Cave Hollow—not in 1901, but in
the 1880’s.
The actual discovery of the Lake Cave
was made in November, 1901, as Govern-
ment reports and W.A. newspapers of
the day show, by C. Price Conigrave,
Wm. A. Nelson and Tim Connelly, the
last-named of whom was a few years
later appointed cave-guide to the Mar-
garet River Caves, as distinct from the
Yallingup Cave, near Cape Naturaliste,
where Ned Dawson showed visitors
through.
Conigrave and Nelson went down from
Perth to join Connelly, who was then
living with the Brockman household at
the Margaret River, to go off on a cave-
hunting trip through the karri forest
south to the Leeuwin. They were
equipped with photographic and flash-
light gear, tucker for a week, and each
carried 40ft. of rope-ladder on his horse.
The main object was to try to locate an
immense hollow, into which 20 years
earlier Mrs. Brockman had nearly ridden
when galloping after wild cattle, but
which had not been seen since.
The party took the approximate direc-
tion taken by Mrs. Brockman years
before. Mrs. Brockman had been alone
when she narrowly escaped going over
the edge of the precipice, and her story
of the mighty hollow and how she had
nearly ridden into it was the joke of the
Bussell family for years.
Late in the afternoon (in November,
1901) Conigrave and his cobbers on their
horses came slap-bang to the edge of the
hollow, about an acre in extent, with a
120ft. precipice ringing it, and an over-
hang in places of 20ft. or more. A huge
karri-tree, about 30ft. round its base,
grew from the subsided surface, with its
topmost branches towering above the
cliff. Fixing their sections of rope-ladder
together and making fast to the tree,
Connelly and Nelson went down whilst
Conigrave photographed them making
the risky, swaying descent, and then fol-
lowed them down.
On the floor of the hollow they found
a cave-opening at the foot of the preci-
pice, and into this the three crawled on
their bellies. It was a tight fit here and
there, but after they had gone on for
several hundred feet a magnesium flare
showed a large sheet of water with cave
formations —all on a grand scale—sur-
rounding it. The now-famous “Sus-
pended Table,” lift, by 2ft., hung plumb-
centre of the lake and about 2ft. above
its surface.
The Lake Cave, as the party called it
on the instant, had thus been discovered.
What with the excitement of their
find, exploring the immense cavern com-
pletely, and Conigrave taking flashlights,
it was close-up midnight before the young
explorers reached the cliff-top again.
Camping there till dawn they then rode
back to the Margaret River homestead
and gave the news. Mrs. Brockman was
wildly'excited at their recital, kissed all
of them and said, “Oh, the old hollow
has been found; now my family will
believe me! ”
Tim Connelly died some years ago
after having shown thousands of visitors
through the caves thereabouts, but his
adventurous pals of 1901, Conigrave and
Nelson, are still going strong in Sydney.
WAI-HOI.


AN old cove who leads an eremitic
existence with his goats in a tin-shed
on the edge of a W.Q. hamlet would
seem to be a “natural” for appointment
to the recently-set-up Queensland Litera-
ture Board. On getting his weekend
newspapers from the city he assembles
his devoted family around the hurricane-
lamp and reads them those items in which
he considers they’d be interested. But
whenever he encounters a story whose
facts seem too hard, or opens a paper
notorious for its salacious court (and
other) reports, he always sends the kids
outside. —“Horncastle.”
* * * *
“Jeff Jay”: I can’t have “Mingari’s”
theory (B. 7/7/’54) that sheep feed into
the wind in order to be warned of
approaching enemies. By their feeding
head-on to a wind the wool is blown
back in its natural position and keeps
out the cold ; were they to feed with the
wind the fleece would be blown open
and afford little protection.
« * * *
“Wippc%ong”: Right out on its own
in the back paddock stands a huge old
pear-tree, planted by some pioneer long-
forgotten. Its great age makes it all
the more attractive to the small fowl
that love to fossick along its lichen-
covered limbs. Strange, the affinity be-
tween whitefaces and yellow-tailed thorn-
bills ; of different families, these two
have sufficiently common interests and
tastes to cobber-up for the off-season.
You’ll see them mixed on the grass, busy
in the same way; about the same size,
equally useful; keen on getting the small
pestiferous wogs that swarm in grass and
foliage; and on the old pear-tree they
both do what they can to preserve the
veteran from the critturs that would drag
ft down. They both sing often enough to
let you know their movements, yet here
lies an interesting difference: through
the air, it’s mostly the pleasant, chittery
’ thorn hi Ik that floats over
note of the thorn hills that floats over
the paddock, but judging by the song
from the pear-tree you’d think the flock
working there were all whitefaces.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Sydney experts were surprised
p o i sonous sea-snakes were found at
Bondi in winter They have been seen
m the waters of Port Phillip ; though
venomous, their bite is reported not to
be fatal. Possibly they get more veno-
mous in the tropics above Brisbane,
where a ship’s bow sometimes runs into
shoals of them, like kingfish. The
Malays have a tradition that if a sea-
snake bites an oar the oarsman is “sudah
ha bis” —kaput. I have never seen this
in practice, but I have seen a man die
after himself being bitten by a six-footer,
* * * *
“Hanko”: Missing now from many
of its one-time haunts is the bronzewing
pigeon, whose meat is amongst the tastiest
of all poultry. Time was, in south-central
Victoria, when big flocks of the birds fed
in season on the tiny black seeds of the
prickly acacia, a growth in vast disfavor
with the modern sheepman and now itself
almost entirely vanished. Among these
seeding acacias you could always rise
a bevy of the bronzewings, and you were
fast if you got two. Bronzey is jet-quick
on the wmg '
*
“Harbel”: The N.S.W. Department
jyj a j n j» oads has plans for a new bridge
a i ongs j de Lansdowne, the historic bridge
that carries t h e Hume Highway across
Pro t Creek about 18 miles SO uth
Qf £ vdney A graceful, semi-elliptical
arch of dressed freestone, the existing
bridge spans 110 ft. and rises approxi-
mately 25ft. above high-tide level. It
was designed by David Lennox within
two years of his arrival in the Colony—
which suggests that it was the first Lennox
bridge. Governor Bourke declared it
open on Anniversary Day, 1836. The
ceremony appears to have consisted of
a crossing-over in grand parade of blue-
blooded livestock, primes! agricultural
products and exhibits, and mobile dis-
plays of imported luxuries, with bands
from the Fourth and Fiftieth Regiments
providing the music. A ball at Govern-
ment House, Parramatta, rounded off
the occasion. Built by convict labor, the
bridge cost altogether only about £lOOO.
I hate to think what the old Governors
shade will do when it sees the tenders
for the new bridge.
“Macquarie”: It’s true that marble can
be sawn—or, rather, fretted away—by
means of a power-driven strip of steel
constantly sawing back and forth over
quartz chips and water (B. 23/6/’54).
But the method used for cutting sand-
stone or even the tough trachite is more
ingenious. The saw is a strip of steel
with a groove in the bottom edge; small
steel balls about the size of b.b.-shot
are placed in this groove and, with water
on the cut, the to-and-fro
motion causes the balls to chew the waste
stone out like sawdust. The comparatively
soft freestone, however, is the stuff that
really lends itself to machine-working,
“Ar, don't envy THEM — think of their transport problems!"
One labor-saver is like a gigantic planer,
except that the blade is stationary. With
the huge block clamped in position the
machine is started, the stone slowly moves
forward, reaches the horizontal blade
and without a pause is carried beneath
it, the waste stone being sheared off like
cheese from a knife. The same machine
can be fitted with tools that will cut
grooves moulds or cornices in the same
operation.
# 9
*
“Columba”: For the past few weeks
there has come to our garden several
times daily a grey butcher-bird, solitary
and almost mature, a prodigy of a singer,
as the whole of our township will attest,
Apart from his own lovely modulations,
he mimics peewees, magpies
crying youngsters), crows and domestic
hens, but his star-piece is the noisy-
minah’s complicated chattering notes, all
transmuted through his golden throat
into joyous and sustained melody, the
black-and-white birds which own our
yard show active dislike to him, but he
sits in the lower branches of the sunflower
trees, lubricates his vocal cords with
hairy caterpillars and assiduously prac-
tises, sotto voce, something from his
reperto i re
*
* * * *
“Sack”: If an axe-handle has been
put in properly the head will never come
oft, which is a good thing until yo
break the handle and want to get the
broken piece out of the eye. Only a
hopeless mug tnes to bash the head off,
since the wedged end merely bites
tighter. I’ve seen fellows boring the old
handle out, but the steel wedge plays
havoc with the bit. One old bushman
told me he always buried the head in the
ground up to the eye (to protect the
temper in the blade), then lit a small tire
over the projecting portion, thus burning
out the old handle. To me that seemed
decidedly wrong. I was always taught to
cut the broken handle short, pare it down,
then drive it right through the eye. Once,
however, a cove told me a really easy
method: “Dig the axe into a log, cut
the broken handle off close to the head
then put the muzzle of a 12-gauge about
two inches from the eye and puli the
trigger.” Being very young at the time
I suggested that he idl it to my kid
sister—she liked fairy-tales. But now,
thinking it over. . .
MERMAID
Her hair is of the palest shade of green
I ike heart of lettuce with a silver sheen
Or the errant weed that leisurely currents bring
And with somnambulistic gesture sling
Upon the idle beaches of her isle
Where she will virginally he and while
Her empty hours away in dream and close
Those eyes of emerald hue that greenly glows
Like cats’-eyes in the dark, that wince and shun
The all too ardent unaccustomed sun;
She looks like any innocent earth-bom girl
Save that her skin, glossy as mother-of-pearl,
Gleams wanly, like the inner skin ot shells
In the subaqueous caverns where she dwells,
And as she lies a-dreaming she may croon
Some sea-born ballad to an elfin tune;
Loud engines throb, harsh human voices rise,
The violet eyelids lift from startled eyes,
She springs alert, the alien tongue she hears,
Into her native deeps she disappears.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.
A SPOT OF REARRANGING
6 6 ArO” said Agapafithus, her head tilted
4' to one side, “I’ve never liked that
picture in that position. There must be a
better place somewhere for it. But where?”
I groaned in the silent way I have
learned to master. It seemed that a
periodical urge was about to break out.
The experienced husband is usually
able to gauge with a fair degree of
accuracy the portents which, lead up to
“Shall I send it, or will you take it with you?"
it, but even the full graduate in the arts
of domesticity finds the going hard when
his helpmeet is hell-bent on turning
To a woman it is part of the meat and
drink of life. Whereas a man would be
perfectly content to leave the lounge-
chair in the same corner for a quarter
of a century, the irresistible urge to
mutability inherent in the restless sex is
ever a menace to man’s peace and con-
tentment.
I was voicing some such thoughts
inwardly while Agapanthus waged her
battle with the inanimate objects—a battle
in which I invariably elect to remain a
neutral. .
“What do you think of over the radio-
gram?” she asked.
Such a flattering appeal to his aesthetic
sense invariably brings an enthusiastic
response to the beginner- us an
"H* 1 '* 111 * 1 ’ «nn think
wa h?”
“Um.”
“Perhaps, though, that might be
crowding it a little. And it might be partly
obscured by the shade of the standard-
lamp?”
» Um .”
Agapanthus came across and picked
up the paper from the arm of the lounge-
S uhe.
“You can’t concentrate on this problem
and read the sub-headings too—l saw
you You can read that afterwards. You
don’t know a word of what I’ve been
saying.”
“I certainly do,” I protested. “You
were wondering where you’d move the
welcome-vase to.” I like to observe the
look of triumph she registers at such
patent proof of my remissness.
“There*” she exclaimed. “I knew
you weren’t listening. It’s this picture,
Where ran we out it?”
“Why move it at all?” I suggested,
“Why not just tilt it about thirty degrees?
You will have satisfied your passion for
making changes and at the same time
save me from having to put more plugs
in the wall, to say nothing of having to
spackle the hole up where the old plug
waS- ”
Agapanthus dismissed this valuable
contribution to the symposium with an
air of irreverence and contempt which,
I could have pointed out, sorted ill with
her position of a chattel belonging to her
lord. But she was speaking again.
“And then there’s mother’s photo. I
don’t like it where it is—it’s too close
to the door-jamb. I want a more suit-
able place for it.”
“What about behind the laundry-
door?” I put in pleasantly. “It seems a
perfect setting for what I have always
regarded as a terrifying likeness of the
old bag.”
For answer Agapanthus playfully dug
me in the ribs and said: “You like her all
right.”
If you can imagine how an aggrieved
Frenchman would feel if, getting io the
duelling-ground, his opponent were to
rush up and kiss him and suggest they
settle the affair-of-honor by playing little-
ring marbles instead, you will gain a
slight idea of the deflation I suffered
through this soft answer to my
“We could put it where the piano is” —
she had again taken up the harp.
“In that case,” I replied, “the piano will
need to be partly lowered through the
floor so the old girl’s dial won’t be
obstructed by the instrument —look at the
size of it! Of course it would mean that
whoever wanted to play it would have to
go under the house to do so, but I sup-
pose it could still be heard reasonably
well up here.”
“The piano isn’t staying where it is,
smarty,” said Agapanthus. “I want it
across that corner over there, and we
can put the lounge-suite where the piano
was. It’s low. That will mean we’ll have
to move that welcome-vase. We can’t
have it directly over the lounge-suite—
if it fell whoever was sitting in it would
get soaked. And,” she went on, “that
wall-plate can go where the vase was,
but a tiny bit higher.”
“Two more plugs to put in,” I groaned.
“I don’t know what you’ve got to
growl about,” she said. “All you have
to do is to put them in and fill in .the
old holes. I’ve got to clean-up the mess
after.”
She looked along the wall again with
a calculating eye. I’d seen that look
before, and felt uneasy. “But let me
see . . . that will mean there’ll be a vacant
space above the bookshelves. Goody!
I saw a plaque when I was in town yes-
terday. It’s in autumn tones and will
go beautifully with the rust curtains. It
will just fit there nicely. I’ve already
put a pencil-mark where you are to drill
the hole.”
“But” I began.
“You’ll love it!” she went on hurriedly.
“It’s the inside of a cottage—they’re the
very latest. It’s coming c.o.d. tomorrow.
You’d better get the plug in right away.
We can shift the furniture and pictures
after you’ve finished that.”
So that was it. The old fait accompli
technique. I might have known.
Bo.


I
mm
m
>
m
' w
X
■
1 You asked for Benson & Hedges cigarettes, Sir?
For occasions when the merely good
must yield place to the unquestionable
best, BENSONandHEDGES provide their
Super Virginia Cigarettes made from the
finest of fine
KNSON « KfOOM
UT .•.’PO'NtMeNT
roaACCOHisrs to
»Hf t AT l *>nu C.tOlt'33 V»
utiOt do'
K
■>
London or Paris or Singapore
Just as surely as the experienced, observant traveller can name
those rare qualities which give distinction to famous hotels through-
out the world from London, Lisbon and Paris, to Melbourne,
Nassau and Singapore—-so will he notice, on his varied journeys,
how often Benson & Hedges Super Virginia cigarettes from Loudon
have freshly travelled the self-same path.
There are also SPECIAL VIRGINIA CORK TIPPED
for those who prefer them,
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON- W
TBW/LS3
without FAB!
Handsome
carrying case,
55/- extra.
ADDING MACHINE
Thousands ot country as well as city users.
Here’s a “lifesaver” for the man who is plagued with “doing
the books.” Contes eliminates tedious additions, and exaspera-
ting errors. Contex supplies the answers with infallible accuracy,
in £.s.d., whole numbers, decimals, weights or measures. Any-
one can use it efficiently after 5 minutes’ practice.
° CHARTRES Lld
SYDNEY:
169 Liverpool St.
ADELAIDE;
29 Grenfell St.
MELBOURNE:
375 Collins St.
PERTH:
E. C. Stott & Co.,
Howard St.
BRISBANE:
256-278 Wickham St.,
Valley
Also at:
HOBART, LAUNCESTON,
DEVONPORT
Business. Rollery. Etc.
THE BOOM OF BOOMS
Then—
nro an observer of sharemarkets
A over the past quarter of a
century there comes, as he stands
among the rapt observers of the
oil and uranium quotations in the
corridor of the Sydney Stock
Exchange, a queer feeling that
all this happened before. And,
looking around him, he can see
faces that were familiar 20 years
ago, and which he probably
hasn’t seen in the interval. But
there are many younger, more
.excited faces as well.
The middle-1930’s were the
days of Tullamore, Mandated
Alluvials, Arnheim Land Gold.
New Middle Creek, Sulphide
Gold, Gibraltar, Bulolo Gold
Deposits, Mt. Kasi, Leonora
Central, Chapmans, Granites
Development, Yellowdine and
other bitter disappointments of
the gold-share boom. There were
better concerns than those which
paid dividends for a while; but
out of 205 goldmines listed on
the Adelaide Stock Exchange, by
July, 1938, only 56 had declared
dividends, and the majority of
those were older mines in Vic-
toria, Westralia and New Guinea
which existed before the price of
gold leapt in the 1930’s and
brought forth a flush of flota-
tions whose outstanding charac-
teristic was their prospectus
optimism and, as a rule, their
generosity to the vendors.
Usually these flotations were
able to exhibit some gold and
able to provide engineers’ or
geologists’ reports certifying to
the existence of auriferous ore-
bodies or alluvium; usually, on
development, the ore or alluvium
cut out too quickly, the ore was
too complex and wouldn’t
respond economically to treat-
ment, the plant was wrongly
designed, or there was too much
Mother Earth or native rock
mixed up with the precious
metal.
But until disappointment after
disappointment crashed the gold
sharemarket and dragged down,
in market favor, even good
mines, great was the excitement
on the Stock Exchanges,
numerous were the false reports
circulated. Even typistes in city
offices came to understand that
sloping really had nothing to do
with Marie of the name, and
office-boys were up to their
necks in threepenny share-
nibbles. Claude de Bernales
arose a gilded colossus out of it
all-leaving a trail of financial
confusion and disaster in his
wake —and Woolcott Forbes
dabbled, though his main
interests were in finance concerns.
Through all the booming loomed
the mirage of Lasseter’s “lost
reef.”
In the calendar-year 1939 Aus-
tralia produced 1,645,697 fine
ounces of gold. That compared
with an average annual pro-
duction of 584,0000 z. during
1921-30.
But, though Australian produc-
tion made this recovery, it was
mostly from low-grade mines,
and shareholders didn’t do well
out of it. Very few of those
who put their money into the
mining boom of the mid-1930’s
ever got as much back.
The gold that made the
fortunes and developed the
country was that v/hich was dug
out of the ground with compara-
tive ease during the period from
1851 to 1910. After that it was
very largely a going-over of old
ground, with the grade dropping
all the time and the cost of
equipment and labor rising.
But the sharemarkets boomed
—for a period. In the aftermath
there were failures of share-
brokers in Sydney, Melbourne
and Adelaide, and more than
one ruined punter suicided. Long
before the outbreak of war in
1939 the gold-fever had run its
course, though by that time the
few mines which could be profit-
ably worked were coming into
full production. (Some of them
had been floated four or five
years earlier.) Soon after World
War II began goldmining was
given a low manpower priority,
costs rose, and gold-production
fell steeply.
—and Now
The present boom in oil and
uranium shares is similar to the
gold-share boom of 1935-36 to
the extent that companies are
being floated on the slightest of
geological foundations, and their
shares are being rushed during
and after flotation. But recent
floats have made much larger
share-issues than the gold cos.
of 20 years ago, and market
multiplication of their par-value
once they are listed is carried to
a far greater degree. In short,
within 12 months of the striking
of oil at Rough Range the boom
in oil and uranium shares has
reached much larger proportions
than any mining boom in Aus-
tralia’s history. Handling its own
scrip-transactions is costing one
oil-drilling co. in Sydney £25,000
a year.
The present boom differs from
most others in that the mining
companies are now going over
almost virgin ground in most
parts of the Commonwealth.
Except at Roma (Q.), very little
drilling for oil has been carried
out on the mainland of Australia.
Until the last few years, uranium
was not sought after as a metal,
and the geiger-counter and scin-
tillometer were unknown pros-
pecting-instruments. Buf so little
is known about the oil or
uranium potential of the Com-
monwealth that much of the land
that is being prospected will
undoubtedly prove not only
virgin but barren. The uranium-
prospecting concerns for this
reason are probably the most
peripatetic metal-seekers this
country has ever known. A
company seeking uranium in
West. Australia one month may
be heard of at Mt. Isa (Q.) the
next.
So far as uranium is concerned,
most experienced observers
believe that, somewhere, good
finds of uranium will be made in
Australia. But even at the present
stage of the search few would
like to say where. Very little real
development has yet been carried
out except on Government
undertakings.
With regard to oil the position
is not so certain. Petroleum is
not so widely distributed
throughout the world as uranium,
and we are still waiting on con-
firmation of the Westralian
expectations.
From the sharemarket point
of view the great danger is that,
the longer the boom continues,
the more deeply will gamblers be
committed. Before the oil-show
at Rough Range late last year
most people were gambling with
pin-money. It is different now.
Some businessmen are becoming
seriously involved. The uranium
gamble has added to the oil-
bubble, and moneymaking on the
Stock Exchanges in the past few
months has been all too easy.
While no sharebroker or
financial adviser can say with
certainty that any particular
mine will not eventually make
big profits, all will probably
say that a large proportion of the
companies will never pay a
dividend. Someone, some day,
will be left holding the bag in a
number of companies which
have had their glamor-hour on
’Change. -
“Soon as we strike oil we'll sell out to Ampol."
A boom of the present nature,
to be maintained, must go on
expanding. It cannot stand still.
To continue in existence it will
therefore require fresh dis-
coveries and periodic stimula-
tion.
To an extent, the present boom
in oil and uranium shares is an
inverted pyramid with its apex
balanced on the pinpoint of the
oil-showings at Rough Range in
W.A. Without the W.A. oil-
shows the whole present mining-
share boom would have been a
comparatively feeble thing. To
the extent that the W.A. venture
develops favorably, the longer
will the boom be sustained,
possibly assisted by other dis-
coveries. But even in the event
of flow-oil being struck in pay-
able quantities here and there,
or uranium-deposits of world
class being discovered, the long-
winded, costly and unspectacular
job of developing and marketing
the mineral product will weary
the patience of the gamblers.
The more people get sucked
into the oil-uranium boom, the
greater will be the crash one of
these days. There will be a dry
hole where oil was confidently
expected; there will be a
petering-out or chopping-off of
a “glamor” uranium-deposit that
promised well on the surface.
The ensuing market setback will
produce selling by those who are
overcommitted. And the more
forced sales there are the more
there will have to be. That
is the almost inevitable
mathematical - plus-psychological
formula which operates in all
major Stock Exchange gambles.
After the crash the producers
and good “prospects” will re-
main, but for a while even they
will be adversely affected in the
market by the shock caused by
the fall of the no-hopers.
The real benefit to Australia
from oil and uranium will prob-
ably arrive long after the share-
market boom has fizzled out.


INSURANCE —for your protection'
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £16,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BW 81 3 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
ATLANTIC
-» FLASH■*
STOP-WEAR
>
Ml
/
U
%
h
A
r
Lrf//
Happy IfUt&dfUf
... starts with you l
Atlantic Retailer
Modern engineering can give you the best of cars, but you alone
can make it yield years of trouble-free service. Start right. Link
up with your Atlantic Retailer for complete car-care, personal-
ised service, and experienced guidance. His skill is backed by
Atlantic products a time-tested team that not only gives you
maximum performance but ensures that your car goes better
longer.
Happy motoring starts at your Atlantic Retailer—and it thrives
there. Swing over tomorrow!
OP QUA i ,
ATLANTIC
RPI-54
SEH
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
An Election Budget
Ft his first election Budget since
his rise to power five years
ago, P.M. Sid Holland per-
formed the ingenious trick of
granting a long list of tax-
concessions and finishing up with
larger estimated revenue than last
year. At first glance it seemed
that he had budgeted for a round
£2OO million, which has been
the standard for several years,
but this overlooked £13.7 million
for highways, which is now out-
side the Budget but has to be
found by taxpayers.
In all, taxes add up to £214
million for the current twelve-
month (to March 31, 1955), an
average £lO2 12s. a head, which
is 31s, up on last year and several
shillings above, the 1952 peak.
Yet the P.M. has won a lot of
kudos for his Budget through
skilfully juggling with the
finances to make the most of a
wide range of concessions. When
the result is closely studied the
income-tax changes appear more
as reform than relief, and the
pruning of the sales-tax list is not
nearly as impressive as the
number of deleted items suggests.
The income-tax target is still
a shade over £BO million after
striking a balance between a
number of variables; the best
feature is that the tax-system is
now simplified. On the one side,
the exemptions for the taxpayer,
his wife and children are lifted
and the final 2\ p.c. of the 15 p.c.
surcharge imposed
in the war has gone; on the
other, the £l5 flat rebate is can-
celled. There remains a slight
advantage for the taxpayer,
which is likely to disappear
before inflation comes to an end.
The luckiest folk are wives in
employment, whose incomes will
be no longer aggregated with
their husbands’ if either earns
less than £5OO, or their combined
total is less than a thousand.
Sales-tax is still a big load on
the cost of living, with a total of
£2O million after knocking off
£2 million. Generally, the rate
is 20 p.c., and for the most part
it falls on the rank-and-file.
Some increases are handed out
to the most needy under social
security, now costing £67.7
million a year. Land-tax is
scaled down to offset big rises in
values, and farmers are given a
few crumbs for comfort. Alto-
gether, it seems that Maoriland
is continuing to live right up to
its income, if not ahead of it,
with the emphasis still on con-
sumption rather than production,
although the P.M. claimed other-
wise.
Productivity is N.Z.’s need, in
the trades, in the factories and
in many forms of service where
employment conditions are
chronic, as well as on the farms,
which are the foundation of
prosperity. Until the weakness
in these directions is remedied
the situation cannot be con-
sidered healthy or the evidences
of returning stability anything
more than superficial. The P.M.
has been wrestling with the con-
sequences of high prosperity ever
since he became responsible for
the national finances, and his
policy suggests that he expects
prosperity to keep flowing on.
To overseas observers, the
highlights of the Budget must be
the Government’s decision to get
rid of exchange - allocation
through the Reserve Bank after
this year, the revival of overseas
borrowing, and the joint scheme,
arranged with the British Atomic
Energy Authority, for producing
“heavy water” and electricity
from geothermal steam. N.Z.’s
overseas reserves have been
rebuilt to a point where it should
be only a matter of good manage-
ment to keep exports and
imports reasonably balanced.
The big mistake three years
ago was in throwing the door
wide open and allowing every
Tom, Dick and Harry to order
as much as he pleased, after
import-controls were relaxed.
N.Z. should have learnt a per-
manent lesson from that experi-
ence, and have the savvy to
work out a technique to give the
banks a firm hold of the reins.
A London loan is the logical
next step to help along the works
programme, and a natural follow-
up to last year’s move to finance
the sterling part of the outlay on
the Murupara pulp-and-paper
project. N.Z.’s low external debt
and high credit should make
borrowing easy, apart from the
appeal to the imagination of a
scheme for linking subterranean
and atomic power from opposite
sides of the world. A dual-
purpose plant to convert steam
into two forms of energy—
electrical and nuclear—could
show a wonderful return on the
investment and put N.Z. indus-
trially in the front rank. Cheap
and abundant power is all the
country needs in the race ahead.
It should know its chances within
three years.
These larger issues overshadow
tax-adjustments in the overall
Budgetary pattern, but the
smaller ones count most with
voters. Mr. Holland has piloted
the country along peacefully
since he was sent back after
settling the strike in 1951, and
his Budget policy, whatever its
shortcomings, does not lack
appeal to the masses.
Murupara Woodpulp
A picture of prosperity that
was only a dream a couple of
years ago is taking shape as con-
struction of the big Murupara
timber, pulp- and paper-mills and
related works, in the £3O million
joint State-and-private-enterprise
project, goes ahead at top speed.
The latest outburst of enthusiasm
about prospects was heard in
Parliament towards the end of
July, when Priminister Sid
Holland forecast that by 1957
the mills would be in full pro-
duction and earning £7.5 million
a year.
One of the mysteries has been
the financing of the Tasman
Pulp and Paper Co.’s part in the
venture, without making an issue
of shares, while spending has run
into millions. Overseas purchases
of plant and equipment haven't
been a problem because sterling
and dollar loans have taken care
of these, but inside N.Z. a public
call for funds was expected
earlier than this.
The P.M. has now told the
country that the Government has
advanced money to the co. at a
charge of 4 p.c. The heads of the
Fletcher combine, backers of the
Tasman co., have put up
£700,000, and the State has
invested a million, apart from
advances. But the surprise for
those without inside knowledge
has been the P.M.’s hint that the
shares will go to a premium
“before they are ready for
issue.” This will be something
new for a co. just starting out.
The information is only suffi-
cient to provoke curiosity
without satisfying it. From the
start the Tasman co. has been
able to do things diffevtwitly from
other concerns, and the contrast
between the way it has been
helped along without worrying
about the rules and the struggle
N.Z. Forest Products had for
years and years become more
startling as the months pass. No
doubt it will all be justified, in
the long run, as “in the national
interest,” whatever individual
interests might be served at the
same time.
What pleases the Government
most today is that it can see a
fortune in its hundreds of
thousands of acres of planted
forest approaching maturity,
where trees will be felled at a
rate to dazzle New Zealanders
when loggers from Canada or
Scandinavia are brought in soon
to show how to do the job.
“The country is going to leap
ahead, and this industry will
bring wealth,” says the P.M., who
is a great Murupara salesman.


33-39 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
ORANGE and
TAMWORTE
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
YOUR WILL is first and foremost a business matter
'yOUR Will is probably the most important document that you will
A ever sign. Failure to treat it as a business matter of the highest
importance may prove costly to your family,
The best procedure is to discuss your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited. The Company has more than 65
years experience in Estate administration and is well qualified to guide
you in your planning.
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by a Solicitor.
This will involve the appointment of an Executor and Trustee, If yon
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as sole Executor —or jointly
with a relative or friend —you will be following the lead of many of
our wisest and most successful citizens.
The services Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has to offer, and
the charges, are set out in the Company’s helpful and informative booklet,
“Your Executor and Trustee’Phone 8.0377 or. write for a copy to-day.
1 DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.0., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN 0. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director,
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD CAT
CULUMN
Batons & Baldwins (Aust.), Ltd.
X7ORMED in April, 1951, to take over
1 the Australian business of Paton and
Baldwin, Ltd. (England), whose knittingr
and other yarns, etc., have been familiar
on the local market since the end of last
century, the co. ran into a patch of sticky
trading during its first year, and failed to
pay an ord. div. The sharp fall in wool
prices and consequent need to adjust
the book-value of stocks, largest and most
vulnerable of the assets, was chief cause
of the trouble.
The business, however, has continued
to expand, the price of wool (co.’s chief
raw material) recovered, economic
activity steadily strengthened, and net
earnings made a prompt recovery. For
the two years to May 1, 1954, they ex-
ceeded the average profit for the three
years immediately preceding acquisition
of the business—£2l3,3o4, after allowing
for taxation on a public-co, basis—and
the ords. received 6 p.c. each term, with
wide margins. At the outset the declared
intention was io “follow a conservative
policy in ordinary dividend distribution”
and build up reserves, thus making the
scrip essentially a holding proposition.
The Australian public put up £1,250,000
in 500,000 £1 ords. and 750,000 £1 5 p.c.
cum. prefs. The money, less cost of the
issue, etc., was used in part-payment of
the purchase price, which was £3,879,016
for net tangible assets. A further
£1,000,000 was satisfied by the issue of
f.-p. ords. to the vendor, to whom the
balance (£1,678,946 at May 1 last) re-
mained as an outstanding interest-free
debt redeemable in Australian currency
in 1976. The co., which is meanwhile en-
titled to reduce the debt by any amount
seen fit, thus kicked off with a paid
capital of £2,250,000, of which £750,000
carries a fixed cumulative 5 p.c., guaran-
teed by the parent for the first five years.
The big spinning mill, which employs
over 1200 workers, is at Launceston
(Tas.). From raw staple bought on the
Australian market and blended in the
factory, it turns out high-grade hand-knit-
ting wools, mending and embroidery
wools and Turkey-rug wools, as well as
a wide range of yarns for manufacture
into machine-knitted goods. On the mer-
chandising side the co. also handles a
number of imported and local lines, in-
cluding knitting needles, crochet-hooks,
angora yarns, rug-, tapestry- and em-
broidery-canvas, and other rug-making
accessories. There are warehouses in
Melbourne and Sydney, and branches
and agency agreements cover the rest of
the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
The recovery of wool prices, buoyancy
of the national income, import-restric-
tions, and maintenance of employment
and wage-rates at high levels soon cor-
rected the position in respect of the
value and volume of stocks, and demand
for the co.’s products has continued to
grow. Also operating costs were rela-
tively steadier last term, and the rate of
co. tax was lighter. Yet the profit was
£69,201 less than the 1953 figure, which
had benefited substantially from the
write-back from inventory values in
1952:
t Dividends
Pref. To Re-
May, Profit. 5 p.c. f Ord. ’ serves. Deficit.
„ . & £ £ £
Preliminary exes, etc., £49,727 .. 49,727
Profit sale assets, £8339 .. . . 41.388
1952.. 38,194 29.025 Nil 9,169 32,219
Added intangibles, £203 .. .. 32,422
Tax overprovided, etc., £30,251 .. *2,171
1953.. 87,500 6 p.c.=90,000 202,105
Tax overprovided, etc., £66,454 . . 266,388
1954.. 37,500 6 p.c. =90,000 132,904 399,292
The £260,404 netted last term was written
after allowing £28,446 (up £4535) for
depreciation and £168,300 (down
£124,948) for taxation. It was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 14.8 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 19.4 p.c. for the
previous year and an average of 11.7
p.c. for the three years to 1951. After
payment of the 6 p.c. div., over half the
year’s net earnings were ploughed back
into the business, and free reserves also
benefited by £66,454 overprovided for
taxation in 1953, lifting them to £399,292.
It thus seems unlikely that there will be
any change in dividend policy for a while.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
were in the right direction, and the finan-
cial position strengthened:
Capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Ord 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Reserves .. .. 199,934 399,292
Creditors .. .. 100,832 148,399 192,068
Tax reserve ~ 57,500 299,673 169,148
Final div. . . 18,750 90,000 90,000
Deferred liability 1,679,016 1,678,946 1,678,946
£4,106,098 £4,666,952 £4,779,454
Freeholds .. 176,001 244,041 294,495
Plant ~ .. 180,741 206,876 243,008
Stocks .. .. 2,501,486 2,434,872 2,705,380
Debtors ~ .. 581,190 887,916 1,063,237
Advances .. .. - 620,769 376,769
Cash, etc 634,461 ' 266,478 96,565
Deficit .. .. 32,219
£4,106,098 £4,666,952 £4,779,454
To meet net additions of £270,508 to
stocks (in at lower of cost or market-
value), £175,321 'to book-debts and
£86,586 to fixed assets (mainly on account
of the new warehouse at Mascot, near
Sydney), the co. drew upon cash, etc.,
for £169,913, reduced its advance to the
London parent co. by £250,000 and added
only £43,669 to the outside debt. The
more-or-less liquid surplus (£2,111,789)
increased by £112,772.
Immediate prospects favor a better
showing at next balance. At 255. 3d.
(265. 6d. a year ago) the ords. return
4.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis, or 5.5 p.c.
should the distribution be lifted to 7 p.c.
The prefs. at 19s. yield 5.3 p.c. Net tan-
gible cover is £3 10s. Bd. prefs. and
255. 4d. ords.
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
THE long-run outlook for this efficient
and expanding brewery organisation is
more encouraging than the latest accounts
would suggest. To get the business into
perspective it is necessary to consider
past and immediate developments. The
brewery at Ballarat feeds some 90 of
the co.’s own hotels, and a lot more,
scattered throughout western Victoria,
the N.S.W. Riverina and at Mt. Gambler
(S. Aust.), And of recent years a lot of
money has been spent on expanding and
modernising plant and equipment and
hotel properties. To help finance the
work £125,000 of 5 p.c. pref. capital was
issued at par in 1951. At the same time
ord. capital was doubled by the issue
of £250,000 of bonus-scrip from a capital-
assets reserve created by writing up the
book-value of hotel properties by that
amount.
Most important recent development
was the purchase, as from March 1, 1953,
of the 64,545 issued shares in the Volum
Brewery Co., Ltd., Geelong, for £421,143,
of which £222,016 was paid in 4| p.c.
unsecured notes, maturing July 1, 1958,
and the balance in cash. No intangible
item appeared as a result of the, deal,
which included the Volum brewery,
plant, stocks, two residences and 21
hotels, mostly in Geelong. The co. has
thus widened and tightened its hold upon
the trade in a thriving industrial centre.
Last term nearly £200,000 was spent on
capital account, most of it on modernis-
ing the Geelong brewery and the balance
on a new bottling-plant at Ballarat, which
should be ready for next summer’s trade,
and on further improving hotel proper-
ties, etc. The work at Geelong, now
practically complete, held up production of
bottled and bulk beer there, and the Bal-
larat plant filled the gap. Also the board
decided to “allow all profits earned at
Geelong [mainly from hotel properties]
to remain there for development,” So
not only did last term’s net earnings get
no benefit from the Geelong purchase,
but revenue from Ballarat had to bear
an interest charge of approximately
£23,000 on account of the investment at
Geelong.
The co.’s production and sales figures
are not disclosed. Australian output of
beer for the 10 months to April 30 last
was at the rate of 217 million gallons
p.a., or 9 p.c. more than for the year to
June 30, 1953. Still, the co.’s prpfit-
margins were squeezed by the time-lag
between the rise in cost of raw materials
and lift of 4d. a gallon in the selling-price
of bulk beer authorised as from Septem-
ber 15, 1953. After allowing £33',974
(up £2088) for depreciation and £50,200
(down £35,476) for taxation, the board
put the year’s net earnings at £82,856
(up £6591):
1 Dividends To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.
& £> £> £*
1950. .49,145 6 p.c. 12i p.c. 38,750 10,395 346,064
Revaluation hotel properties, £588,173 934,237
Capitalisation of reserves, £250,000.. 684,237
Surplus sale plant, £986 .. .. 685,223
Deferred lease premiums, £2143 .. .687,366
Income tax previous years, £3608 .. 683,758
A B
Pref. Pref. Ord.
6 p.c. 5 p.c. 10 p.c.
1951.. 55.054 7,500' 1,562 37.500 8,942 692,250
Surplus sale plant, £2157 .. ~ 694,407
Deferred lease premium, £5725 .. 700,132
Profit sale hotel, £48,212 .. .. 748,344
7* p.c.
1952.. 50.007 7,500 6,250 37,500 747.100
Consolidated Figures.
Profit sale plant, £449 .. .. 748,257
Deferred lease premiums, £4533 .. 752,790
1953. .76,265 7,500 6,250 37,500 25,015 777,805
Transfer to p. and 1. a/c, £24,656 .. 753,149
Profit sale assets, £15,097 .. .. 768,246
Tax overprovided, £41,699 .. .. 809,845
1954.. 82,856 7,500 6.250 87,500 31,606 841,451
Sine© the profit claimed includes £24,656
transferred from “deferred income from
lease premiums,” it was not all earned
during the year. Also the 1953 profit was
understated by about £lB,OOO overpro-
yided for taxation. Similar overprovision
in previous years enabled a total of
£41,599 to be thus transferred back to the
p. and 1. account. In addition sale of
assets turned in a capital profit of £15,097.
The £82,856 of profit claimed was
enough to pay the pref. divs. (£13,750)
and show 13.8 p.c. on the half-million
of ord. capital as against 12.1 p.c. for
the .previous term. The div. was kept
at 1\ p.c., which is equal to 15 p.c. on
capital as it stood before the gift-scrip
issue of 1951.
The work at Geelong and new bottling-
plant at Ballarat, etc,, are reflected in
net additions of £138,184 to plant and
£24,124 to brewery, hotels, etc.:
, Consolidated
Balance-sheet,
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord 500,000 500,000 500,000
Reserves .. .. 747,100 777,805 841,451
Mortgages ~ 50,000 50,000 50,000
Unsecured notes.. 222,016 222,016
Overdraft .. 48,175 266,562 396.082
Creditors .. 40,856 74,582 109,318
Tax reserve .. 62,000 88,496 42,731
Final div. .. 29,375 29,375 29,375
£1,727,506 £2,258,836 £2,440,973
Brewery, hotels,
etc 1,170,654 1,601,130 1,625,254
Plant, etc. .. 105,132 213,058 351,242
Stock .. .. 82,181 136,239 147,182
Debtors . . .. 368,055 306,751 315,389
Shares other cos. 347 347 347
Cash, etc. .. 1,137 1,311 1,559
£1,727,506 £2,258,836 £2,440,973
Stocks increased by £10,943 and book-
debts by £8638, while £129,520 was added
to the overdraft and £34,736 to the
amount coming to sundry creditors.
Excluding provisions for taxation and the
final div., there was 9s. 9d. of outside
money in the business for every £ belong-
ing to shareholders when the books
closed, compared with Bs. a year earlier.
But no hint is given as to whether share-
holders are likely to be asked for more
at an early date.
Trading results should benefit substan-
tially when the remodelled Geelong
brewery gets fully into its stride. At
355. (375. a year ago) the ords. give an
immediate return of 4.3 p.c. on a 1\
p.c, div. basis, with prospects. The 6
p.c. A and 5 p.c. B prefs. at 21s. 6d.
and 19s. yield 5.6 p.c. and 5.2 p.c. respec-
tively. Net tangible cover is £l2 15s. A,
£ll 14s. Bd. B and 535. Bd. ord.
Brooklands Accessories (Melb.)
STIMULATED by the twin demands
for initial electrical-equipment, etc.,
for new cars and tractors,, and for re-
placement parts for a growing number
of ageing vehicles, post-war turnover of
this co. and its subsidiaries has bounded
along. And so have the parent’s earn-
ings, dividends, reserves and capital
account.
The bulk of the trade is done
in Victoria, with a branch at Sydney
(N.S.W.) contributing to the pool, too. A
number of well-known local and overseas
agencies for parts, etc., are held, an
engineering section specialises in engine-
and clutch-rebuilding and electrical- and
carburettor-servicing, and the principal
subsidiary, Standard Lighting Ignition
Pty., handles the auto-electrical equip-
ment turned out by Joseph Lucas, Ltd,
(England), and recently acquired the
Victorian distributing rights of Smith
Motor Accessories, Ltd., another
English concern which makes speedo-
meters, oil-gauges and car-locks and
-heaters, etc.
For the five years to 1942 the ords.
got a steady 8 p.c., followed by four lots
of 10 p.c., three of \l\ p.c., one of
15 p.c. and then \l\ p.c. for the four
years to the close of last accounts. Since
1946 reserves (after deducting intangibles)
have climbed from £24,736 to £467,943,
and paid capital, which includes £25,000
of 7 p.c. pref. money, has shot up from
£70,000 to £244,875. Of the difference
(£174,875) £35,561 is bonus-scrip and the
balance cash, which brought with it
£66,753 of share-premiums.
To finance further expansion, those
on the ord. register at April 30 last were
offered 109,938 new £1 ords. at par, one
for two, payable 10s. on application and
the balance in November next. The
issue will lift paid capital to £354,813,
on which the pref. div. and \l\ p.c. to
the ords. will call for little more than
half the profit claimed last term.
The parent’s activities account for the
bulk of net earnings, which for the year
to April 30, 1954, were written £6069
stronger at £117,856, thanks to the less
rapacious demands of the taxgatherer—
the allowance for depreciation was £9681
(down £986) and for taxation £65,000
(down £29,000):
Brooklands Accessories and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends N
Pref. Re-
Apnl, Profit. 7 p.c. f Ord.——serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £
1950 .. 50,201 1750 15 14,245 164,976
Share premiums, £10,517 .. .. 175,493
Revaluation assets, £13,335 ~ .. 188,828
Surplus sale assets, £634 .. .. 189,462
Capitalisation reserves, £35,561 .. 153,901
1951 .. 75,613 1750 24,892 202,872
Share premiums, £21,035 ~ .. 223,907
From tax reserve, etc., £1597 .. 225,504
1952 .. 109,993 1750 17* 38,478 295,269
Tax overprovided, etc., £1521 .. 296,790
1953 .. 111,787 1750 17J 38,478 368,349
Tax overprovided, £21,966 .. .. 390,315
1954 117,856 1750 17£ 38,478 467,943
* After deducting intangibles (£20,632 at
30/4/’53).
If £21,966 overprovided for taxation in
the previous year is taken into the reckon-
ing, there was a slip of £15,897 in last
term’s net result. However, the £117,856
was enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 52.8 p.c. on the £219,875 of ord.


Missing Friends
WILL EDWARD WOODWARD TRE-
GENZA ELLIS, WILLIAM JOHN JOSEPH
ELLIS, CHARLES HENRY SILVER-
TON ELLIS, or any person knowing their
whereabouts, please contact the PUBEIL,
TRUSTEE, 44 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth, W.A. ?
THE whereabouts of GEORGE WALKER,
son of MRS. S. E. WALKER. “Tamworth
Hotel,” Tamworth, N.S.W. Late R.A.A.F.,
Second World War. Reply to Box No.
252, “Bulletin,” Sydney.
WOULD REGINALD ANSLEY, a son of
JOHN HENRY HOWLAND ANSLEY, or
anyone knowing his present whereabouts,
please communicate with the District
Public Trustee, Auckland, New Zealand.
of every type
and size
Famous for man/ years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3j ins.,
68 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
In all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan ftj;
Envelop * Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304-308 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
sdf
m
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark—are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and "help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
BRANDAUERS
PENS
dfs
Every point
guaranteed —
do not experi-
ment with
Imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
6. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Maim
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. "Telephone: MX 2208.
A SOUND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION
Providing profit-
able protection
for policyhold
ers, while pro-
viding funds
to assist
Australia's
develop-
ment.
Every Year
a Bonus Year
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
•Uli
nn»
!>iii
!U||
Sllii
•ilia
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BWBO6I.
TO-DAY'S PROTECTION —TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
jFuilhui the
Sir Wilfred Laurier, the great Canadian Prime
Minister whose statue stands in the Dominion Square
at Montreal and in numerous shrines across his country,
said years ago that the 20th Century would be Canada’s
century.
His faith and vision are certainly being worked
out in the Canadian achievement. Take the seven
years from 1945 to 1952. Canada’s population in that
time rose by 20 per cent., after including Newfoundland
as a province.
Its output grew by 24 per cent, in terms of goods
and services produced in the country. The people
profited by that. Their standard of living, as reflected
in purchases, rose by 12 per cent., and the average hours
worked by Canadians in manufactu;' ng industries
dropped in the same period from 44i to 41i a week.
The gross national production of Canada in 1953
was 5 per cent, higher than in 1952. Between 1945
and 1952, more than 20 per cent, of the gross national
product was invested in capital equipment, and the
volume of investment rose by 168 per cent.
There, I believe, is the secret of Canada’s great
forward surge. As a nation it chose to be courageous.
It seized the advantage that World War II gave it in
industrial development. Admittedly, it has been
helped since the war by the discovery of huge resources
in oil, iron ore, uranium and nickel. It has an
enormous potential in hydro-electric power.
But the core of its success has been in the invest-
ment of companies and individuals. Its Government
has been content to create a climate of encouragement.
Foreign capital has been poured into the country.
Canadians have helped that by building up an integrity
based on their own faith and initiative.
At the present rate of expansion, Canada’s popula-
tion in 10 years will have grown from 15,000,000 to
18,500,000; and on present prices, its gross national
production will have gone up from £ll,OOO million
(in Australian currency) to £14,600 million a year.
It is always interesting to see what our Canadian
cousins are doing. It is not fitting to draw comparisons,
but there are lessons for us to learn from their
approach to many problems which are so similar to
our own.
capital employed as against 50,
49.2, 51.9 and 50.1 p.c. back to
1950. Of the 17i p.c. distribu-
tion 7i p.c. is labelled bonus.
At the moment there is nothing
to suggest that the p.c. is
likely to be interfered with.
The financial position further
improved:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
£ £ £
Pref. .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
Ord. .. 219,875 219,875 219,875
Reserves .. 295,269 368,349 467,942
Outside
interests .. 11 12 15
Creditors, etc. 224,077 147,614 202,423
Tax provision 162,093 94,192 65,000
Final divs... 28,359 28,359 28.359
954.684 883,401 1,008,614
Freeholds .. 89,517 120,253 161,433
Leaseholds .. 15,614 15,134 14,654
Plant and
fittings . . 41,735 52,365 70,592
Stocks .. 484,678 382.078 373,674
Debtors .. 313,762 287,590 343,027
Cash .. 9,378 25,981 45,234
954.684 883,401 1,008,614
The year’s net additions of
£41,180 to freeholds and of
£18,227 to plant, etc., reflect
purchase of a property at North
Melbourne and opening of a new
branch at Shepparton (Vic.). The
reduction of £8404 in stocks and
growth of £55,437 in book-debts
suggest a better flow of supplies
and brisker trading toward the
close of accounts. The improve-
ment in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£466,153) was £40,669.
At 565. (48s. 4d. two years
ago) the ords. return 6.2 p.c. on a
\l\ p.c. distribution. The prefs.
at 245. 4d. yield 5.7 p.c. Including
the new issue, net tangible cover
is £32 18s. 2d. prefs. and 48s. 4d.
ords.
Raleigh Preserving Co., Ltd.
AFTER trading as a proprie-
tary for 18 years, this Vic-
torian vegetable- and fruit-can-
ning business, etc., was converted
to a public co. in November,
1950, when the scrip was listed
and £90,000 of fresh ord. capi-
tal was gathered to reduce the
overdraft and provide more
working capital. Paid capital
was thus raised to £210,000, of
which £30,000 carries a cumu-
lative 5 p.c. Results since have
been disappointing to share-
holders, but the directors “view
the future with greater optimism
than at any time in the last two
years.”
The co.’s two factories at
Brunswick and Pakenham (Vic.)
turn out tomato products,
canned - vegetables, soups,
spaghetti, plum - puddings,
canned meats and strained foods
for children, which were added
to the list last term. The Paken-
ham plant came into production
about September, 1952, and a
further £90,000 of ord. capital
was got in to finance the project,
lifting paid capital to £300,000.
A small subsidiary, Raleigh
Containers Pty., makes the card-
board packages, etc., in which
the co.’s products are packed.
For the first three years as a
public co. sales kept on expand-
ing, but trading became increas-
ingly difficult, and a lot of
money was tied-up in the Paken-
ham plant which was not earning
anything. Meanwhile, overseas
markets for the co.’s products,
to which canned meat had been
added, weakened, and margins
narrowed. Thus at the end of
1952 stocks had piled-up in ex-
cess of requirements, and the
ratio of net earnings to capital
progressively declined.
Last term stocks were worked
down and the outside debt was
lightened. But prices had to be
cut to do it, and trading for the
first half resulted in a loss, which
was more than wiped out by the
revival of turnover during the
second half. After allowing for
depreciation (£16,274, down
£4607) and taxation (£276, down
£18,056), a profit of £10,296
(down £12,017) showed up for
the year:
Raleigh Preserving and Subsidiary.
, Dividends— >
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec.. Profit. 5 p.c. t —Ord.' serves, serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
’50..22,433 1500 8 10,000 10,938 20,532
Tax underprovided, £3967 .. 16,565
Preliminary exes., £97 .. 16,468
’51..25,493 1500 8 14,400 9,593 26,061
Tax underprovided, £1964 .. 24,097
’52..22,813 1500 4 9,900 10,913 35,010
Profit sale assets, £Bl4 .. 35,824
’53..10,296 1500 3 8,100 696 36,520
After paying the pref. div.
(£1500), enough remained to
show 3.2 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 8.4, 13.3 and 16.7 p.c.
back to 1950. The div., which
dropped from 8 p.c. for the two
years to 1951 to 4 p.c. for 1952,
was lowered to 3 p.c. The com-
paratively slender prop for capi-
tal (reserves stand at £36,520)
suggests that profits, and there-
fore divs., are likely to remain
very sensitive to changes in the
economic climate.
Stocks (in at cost or less) were
reduced by £130,994, and £32,851
was clipped off the overdraft and
£44,802 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1951. 1952. 1953.
Pref. .. £30,000 £30,000 £30,000
Ord. .. 222,837 270,000 270,000
Reserves .. 26,061 35,010 36,520
Overdraft .. 161,757 114,854 82,003
Tax provision 22,143 41,903 17,750
Creditors .. 49,216 92,864 48,062
Final divs... 7,700 500 8,600
£519,714 £585,131 £492,935
Freeholds .. 119,796 144,189 144.558
Plant, etc... 98,579 100,080 88,503
Stocks . . 209,924 316,970 185,976
Debtors . . 91,415 23,892 73,898
£519,714 £585,131 £492,935
The growth of £56,006 in
debtors’ balances reflects the re-
vival of trade toward the close
of accounts. The improvement
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£103,459) was £12,718.
Prospects of a better showing
at next balance, and a lift in the
div., are encouraging. The
f.-p. ss. ords., which sold at
3s. Bd. a couple of months ago,
recently fetched 4s. 7d., giving
an immediate return of 3.3 p.c.
on a 3 p.c. div. basis, or 6.3 p.c.
should the distribution reach to
6 p.c. Net tangible cover is
ss. Bd. The prefs. are quoted on
’Change.
Uranium
The speculative fever in the
sharemarket has become pro-
nounced among small and in-
experienced investors, whose
bids have pushed up the price
of scrip in the principal uranium-
prospecting concerns to levels
which, on evidence thus far
available, look like heavy over-
capitalisation :
Price,
July 7. July 30.
Company. s. d. s. d.
Uranium Development.. 10 3 14 6
Uranium Mines .. 13 9 14 9
Uranium Oxide.. .. 2 0 3 6
N.A. Uranium ~ 9 9 38 0
N.T. Prospecting .. 4 0 9 6
N. Uranium Devel’ment 9 0 11 10
West Uranium .. 4 9 8 3
What a mine is worth depends
upon many things, including
location, cost of working and
marketing ore, etc., and the
character, quantity and average
grade of pay-ore available. In
no instance are sufficient data yet
available, especially in connec-
tion with the two last-mentioned
items, to enable anything like a
reasonable valuation of the com-
mercial worth of the venture to
be made. The rises in share-
prices are largely the result of
psychological reaction to opti-
mistic prospects, arising mainly
from acquisition of new and
untested leases from which
assays of a few selected samples
taken from the surface give
promising indications. Experi-
ence in the Northern Territory
and elsewhere has already shown
that such indications can be very
misleading.
North Australian Uranium
Corp, recently announced sur-
face assays ranging from 0.5 p.c.
to 2.48 p.c. uranium oxide from
its new area on the edge of Arn-
hem Land, as well as acquisition*
of portion of the Federal Gov-
ernment’s dereserved A.B.C.
area near Katherine (N.T.).
Uranium Mines and Northern
Uranium Development have
jointly taken leases adjacent to
the A.B.C. area, and have also
secured an option over 40 acres
of untested ground on the wes-
tern boundary of Walton’s
Mary Kathleen area, near
Mount Isa, which is being
talked about as a potentially
rich uranium-bearing area.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
For her first Town Hall recital Belgian
soprano Suzanne Banco wore a gown of
heavy oyster faille, the strapless bodice
trimmed with gold embroideries which
extended over the hips of the very full
skirt. At her second recital the singer
had tiny rhinestones covering the entire
gown of royal-blue faille, which had long
sleeves, a heart-shaped neckline in front
and deep-V at the back. Slim in front,
the skirt had a wide panel at the back
which fell into a slight train. Among
those captivated by the rare beauty of
her voice were Lady Scott, Mrs. Roy
Shepherd (who was with her pianist-
husband), Mrs. John Heath, Mrs. Ewart
Chappie, Mrs. J. Woodrow and singers
Rita Miller, Glenda Raymond, Kathleen
Goodall and Barbara Wilson.
6 ir ft
In the suits and coats shown by Stell-
Ricks at a luncheon-parade at the Ritz,
black and white were predominant color-
trends. Following on the lines of French
and American fashion-houses, they were
all “in-between seasons,” warm enough
for the dying days of winter and just
right for a gay spring day.
Suits were slim, with several showing
the vogue for the shorter sleeve, while
others featured the melon-sleeve which
is made to push up to elbow-length. The
line of jackets has a rounded silhouette
and a definite waist. Coats set a two-way
fashion. One had wide shoulders and
straight, falling, casual line; another was
a fitted Princess type, made either in
corded faille or tweed.
This season fabrics are “different.”
There is a satin-smooth worsted with a
polished look, light woven-tweeds bright
with white either as a background or as
flecks in the surface. Suits and coats are
accented with white pique, black velvet,
black-and-white, attractive browns, honey -
beige, brown-grape, bronze, ripe-apricot
and navy. In the black-and-white theme
several suits and coats were tailored in
a new window-pane tweed.. This, a woven
check tweed, was first seen in a dramatic
masher-suit, with the square-cut jacket
trimmed with black velvet to accent the
pencil-slim black skirt, with its concealed
side-pocket. The same tweed was most
effective in a full-length coat cut on
barrel-lines, achieved by rounded shoul-
ders and the tapering hemline. Black
velvet was used to highlight collar and
pocket-flaps and to line the fluted cuffs
on the sleeves. The new shortened sleeves
and black velvet trimming were features
of a very smart brown-grape barathea
suit.
One of the gems was a casual coat of
ripe-apricot wool-and-mohair. It was
lined with leopard silk, the bracelet-length
sleeves were made to push up, and the
wide shoulders were emphasised with
modified epaulettes. Another beauty was
a pewter-grey polish-worsted suit. Its
curved horseshoe-yoke sloped to a deep
neckline edged with white pique, and it
had a fitting buttoned waist. Elegant for
dining-out or for the theatre was a white
lightweight mohair coat which had a
jewelled collar, wide shoulders and taper-
ing hemline. Another coat for the same
purpose was on Princess lines, made of
black corded-faille, with black velvet
trimming.
☆ ☆ ☆
Isaac Stern was soloist in the Sibelius
Concerto with the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra under the baton of Eugene
Goossens, and on the same programme
was Margaret Sutherland’s “Triptych”
for orchestra, its first performance.
Noted in the audience were Dr. and
Mrs. Bowen Allen, Dr. Allan Wynn and
his wife (the former ballerina Sally Gil-
mour), Mrs. Claude Couchman, Mrs.
Robert Hamilton, Mrs. Jean Davies and
her daughter Shirley, Adrienne Maxwell,
Mrs. Sydney Baillieu Myer and Mrs.
Gladys Myer and Mr. and Mrs. George
Hanger.
* ☆ ☆
It was warm and sunny for the open-
ing of the Australian Sheep Breeders’
Association’s annual show at Newmarket.
Very thrilled were Mr. and Mrs. Ken
Luke, of Deepfields, Romsey, whose
Dorset Horns won both championship
and reserve. Mrs. Charles C. Kelly, wife
of the president of the association, chose
a Harris-tweed suit in green tonings with
a matching felt hat swathed with a
Paisley scarf. Mrs. Don Ward, of
Flinders, whose husband exhibited
Corriedales, wore a mole-grey tweed suit
and beige jersey turban. Mrs. Ron
Hutchings, from Wagga (N.S.W.), con-
trasted her grey suit with a bright-green
beret. A grey tweed suit was the choice
of Mrs. Lou Burbury, who, with her
husband, came from Tasmania for the
show. Also from Tasmania came Mrs.
John Foster and her daughter Angela.
* ☆ *
Late this month noted British pub-
lisher Frank Sheed, accompanied by his
wife, writer Maisie Ward, will arrive in
Australia. The committee which is
arranging a reception for them on Tues-
day, September 7, in the Royale Ball-
room, is headed by Mrs. L. R, Buxton.
Bookings may be made with the ticket-
secretaries, Mrs. E. J. Smiley (WA 9818)
and Josephine Collins (Win. 5513).
ft ☆ *
Violinist Isaac Stern, his wife, accom-
panist Alexander Zakin and Eugene
Goossens were guests-of-honor at a late-
afternoon party at Majella, St. Kilda,
given by the Subscribers’ Committee of
the Victorian Symphony Orchestra. The
floral decorations, comprising spring-
blossom, pink magnolias and camellias,
had been arranged by two members, Mrs.
Vernon Westley and Sybil Hewitt.
Mrs. Stern wore a tweed suit-and-coat
ensemble in tonings of brown and tan
with a beige platter-hat. The guests, who
were received by vice-president N. J.
Chaldjian and secretary David Gale, in-
cluded U.S. Consul Given Parsons, the
Ewart Chappies, Mrs. Harry Corder,
pianists Nancy Weir and Vera Bradford,
Bertha Jorgensen, leader of the Orchestra,
and Harry‘Hutchins.
Mrs. Sophie Crestohl, who is here to
represent O.R.T. (Organisation of Re-
habilitation Through Trading), is the
wife of Leon Crestohl, member of the
Canadian House of Commons and Q.C.
Mrs. Crestohl is actively associated with
the Canadian Red Cross (voluntary nurs-
ing division) and received the Award of
Merit for her services during the war.
She has travelled extensively through
Europe for O.R.T., which, founded in
1880, teaches trades in schools in 20 dif-
ferent countries, and has a total roll of
20,000 students, displaced persons who
are being trained to become useful citi-
zens in the countries to which they will
migrate. Mrs . Crestohl has a married
daughter and a law-student son .
Mrs. Geoffrey Smith was in charge of
the lovely decorations which transformed
the Royale Ballroom for the St.
Catherine’s Parents and Old Girls’ Ball
held in aid of the school building-fund
and the Spastic Children’s Society.
Large white urns at each end of the
ballroom were filled with gold-and-white
painted hydrangeas, lilies and tropical
leaves mixed with bracken and camellias.
Wreaths of gilded leaves decorated the
walls (these represented the school crest)
while the tables had sheafs of camellias
and ferns tied with the school colors of
blue and gold. The official table was set
with golden candelabra and a large bowl
filled with gold-painted lemons.
The president of the ball-committee,
Mrs. James Buchanan, received the
official guests in a sheath-gown of heavy
red guipure lace sprinkled with dia-
mente and with a long train of black
chiffon. Miss M. E. Davis, principal of
the school, was in the official party with
Colonel George Sutton, director of the
Spastic Children’s Society. Mrs. Ronald
Marriott, one of the ticket-secretaries,
wore a draped gown of American-beauty
chiffon,
Mrs. Bruce Wettenhall’s black faille
gown had draperies of pale-green and
tangerine; Mrs. Ross Shelmerdine chose
grey tulle mounted on orchid-pink
taffeta; Lady Rubinson’s sheath-gown
was of white guipure lace; Mrs. Len
Voss Smith wore grey brocade patterned
in green-and-gold leaves; Gillian Palin’s
crinoline frock was of smoke-blue
organza; Robin Root wore white faille
with a sash of ice-blue faille forming a
floating back-panel; Mrs. John Warlow’s
charming full-skirted go.wn was of deep-
brown tulle.
SYDNEY
The buffet-luncheon given by the Con-
sul-General of Switzerland and Mrs. H.
Hedinger in observance of the Swiss
National Day (August 1) was as delight-
ful this year as in former years. The
tables in the ballroom of the Hotel Aus-
tralia, were decorated with cardboard cut-
out pictures of the distinctive costumes
of Switzerland’s 22 cantons, and during
the luncheon were served the cheese-and-
onion tarts and mille-feuilles cakes which
are Swiss specialities.
Mr, and Mrs. Hedinger welcomed
about 280 guests, including distinguished
members of the Diplomatic and Consular
Corps, leading citizens and Cabinet
Ministers. Among those present were
Mr. and Mrs. Russell Nash, the Vice-
Chancellor of the University and Mrs.
Stephen Roberts, Professor and Mrs. H.
Dew, Lady Jordan, Sir Henry and Lady
Moxham, Mr. and Mrs. R. J. F. Boyer,
Mr. and Mrs. C, Scott Waine, Dr. and
Mrs. C. E. W. Bean, Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Brown, Mr. and Mrs. Ralph King.
☆ ☆ ☆
Guest-of-honor at Legacy’s Annual
Musicale at the Trocadero was the Lady-
Mayoress, Mrs. P. D, Hills, who was her-
self a Junior Legatee and has an abiding
interest in the movement. Hie musicale
is held each year to thank the helpers of
Legacy, and on this occasion 1300 women
were present to be welcomed by the
president of Legacy, Mr. D. J. Cartledge,
and Mrs. Cartledge, and to hear Lieut.-
General E, W. Woodward speak.
Miss Saide Parker, Legacy’s Director
of Appeals, said that the Sydney branches
this year will budget for an expenditure
of £100,000, which will be spent on more
than 6000 families, and that it is hoped
that £50,000 of this will be raised on
War Orphans’ Day, Friday, September 3,
Present at the luncheon were Captain
F. N. Cook and Mrs. Cook, Air-Com-
modore W- H, Garing, Lady Berryman,
Mrs. Lionel McFadyen, Mrs. Darrell
Lennox, Mrs. J. Dyneley Fell, Mrs. W.
Harrison, Mrs. M. E. Lawler, Mrs. J.
McD. Royle, Mrs. E. Davidson, Mrs. I.
E. Brainwood, Mrs. L. Bennett and Mr.
Hugh Cable.
* ☆ ☆
A classical gown of cream-and-gold
brocade was worn by Frances Horton
Browne for her marriage to Robert
Anderson at All Saints’ Church, Wool-
lahra, and holding her tulle veil in place
was a lovely pearl-and-diamond tiara be-
longing to her great-grandmother. Her
attendants were Mrs. Selwyn Ravenscroft
(Neutral Bay) and Mrs. Keith Playfair
(Keith, S.A.), who wore graceful white
georgette dresses of Grecian line. The
bride is the elder daughter of Mr. and
Mrs, W. Horton Browne, of Wirruna,
Young, and the bridegroom the youngest
son of Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Anderson, of
Garrawilla, Mullaley. The ’groom was
attended by his brother, Gavin Anderson
(Armidale), and Peter Body (Inverell).
After the ceremony a reception for 100
guests was held at the Royal Sydney Golf
Club.
☆ ☆ Tit
The Phillip-street Theatre looked even
a little more glamorous for its opening
night of “Hamlet” during the week, for
some of the profits of the thoroughly
successful revue season have been
ploughed back into making the
dress-circle bright and comfortable.
Radio folk abounded at the first-
night of the new presentation, and
there was much talk of the good job
that Owen Weingott made of the part of
Laertes, which he took on at' the last
moment. John Meillon, who was to have
played the part, couldn’t go on because
of a cut on the leg which he received
while practising his fencing. Owen Wein-
gott certainly did well, but he reminded
one so irresistibly of Superman, especi-
ally when he leapt at Hamlet over
Ophelia’s grave, that it was hard to keep
one’s mind on Shakspeare.
* ☆ *
The decorations at the Lady Mayoress’s
Ball in September should be very lovely
this year, as Mrs. R. Instone, who heads
the decoration sub-committee, has de-
vised a scheme based on pergolas covered
with trailing roses, delphiniums 10ft.
high, and standard-roses. The artificial
flowers on which the committee are
already at work will form a background
for masses of fresh flowers which will
give fragrance and reality to the decor.
Gloria Gittoes, who is a fourth-year
nurse at Royal Alexandra Hospital for
Children, recently celebrated her 21st
birthday with a party at the Motor Yacht
Club, Broken Bay. At the party her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Gittoes, of
Strathfield, welcomed 150 people. Photo
by Hugh Spencer.
St. Philip’s Church, Church Hill, was
chosen by Gai Cowper for her wedding
to Brian Gapes during the week because
of its associations with her family. A
sixth-generation Australian, Gai is a
direct descendant of Archdeacon William
Cowper, who opened the church 150 years
ago. She is the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs, Macquarie Cowper, of Lindfield,
and the bridegroom is the son of Mr. and
Mrs. G. Gapes, of Granville.
The color-scheme of the wedding was
particularly pretty, the bride’s dress
being off-white nylon-marquisette over
tulle and the bridesmaids wearing grey
nylon-marquisette over pink, with pink
taffeta sashes, and curvettes of pink
stock and hyacinth in their hair. The
bridesmaids were Barbara Kebblewhite,
Susan Maitland and Betty Bergin, the
bridegroom’s attendants Richard Olding
(Cooma), Barry Stewart and Robert
Belyea. The reception was held at the
Pickwick Club.
☆* * .
At the final meeting of the Red Cross
Ball committee for 1954 the president,
Mrs. C. M. Guiney, presented to Mr. J. F.
Clack, representing Red Cross, a cheque
for £5247, the proceeds of the ball and of
the premiere of the film “The Queen in
Australia.” Mr. Norman Rydge said
that the directors of Greater Union
Theatres, who had donated all the ex-
penses of the film premiere, would like the
proceeds (£3272) to be devoted to the
purchase of a mobile blood-transfusion
unit, and this wish was endorsed by
Mr. D. Casey, speaking on behalf of
Universal Flms. Mr. Clack said he
thought this could be done, although it
was not generally Red Cross policy to ear-
mark any particular donation for any
particular purpose. The proceeds of the
ball (£1975), he said, would help to pro-
vide more hospital accommodation for
aged servicemen.
When Mrs. Guiney thanked Mr, Clack
for allowing the committee to hold the
meeting at the Red Cross Centre in York-
street, Mr. Clack said he would be glad
for them to come as often as they liked
on the same terms.
☆ * *
The season of the mannequin-parade
should be well launched by the end of
this week, although it is notable that
many of the retail stores which used to
make a feature of the spring showings
seem to have abandoned the practice.
The Trocadero will be the venue for a
spring fashion-show today (Wednesday)
in aid of Loreto (Kirribilli) Building
Fund ; it has been organised by a com-
mittee headed by Mrs, Tom Bateman.


WERE THE
FRENCH BETRAYED IN
INDOCHINA?
Was the French defeat in Indo-China
“inevitable,” or was it the result of
treacherous policies which can be traced
back to an American State Department
still influenced by associates of Alger
Hiss and other' secret Communists?
These and other aspects of the Com-
munist victory in Indo-China are dealt
with in the current issue of the League
of Rights’ monthly INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY.
Month by month THE INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY" brings to its readers up-to-date
reliable reports and comment from all
over the world on the growing con-
spiracy against Christian Civilisation.
This SURVEY is essential for all re-
sponsible members of the community; it
provides them with vital information not
readily available elsewhere. A new
subscriber in England writes that THE
INTELLIGENCE SURVEY “is the best of
its type I have yet seen.”
Single issue of INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY, 4/-, post free.
Annual Subscription £3/3/- post free
Order from —
The Victorian League of Rights
( non-party ; non-sectarian),
343 Lt. Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE ORION
v INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
( Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 3025 AND BW 1073
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
TST
»< ;*ioi<c
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
m
m
'Wvv
TOLLEYS...
THE WORD
FOR BRANDY
SINCE 1858
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
T5T.34.12
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Fry’s New Play
At the end of the Strand and
round the corner from the cold
grimy mausoleum of Australia
House, the Aldwych Theatre still
faintly sparkles with memories
of Tom Walls and Ralph Lynn
in the farces of Ben Travers ;
and for a wicked moment it is
tempting to compare the three
hours of helpless shallow laugh-
ter those two delightful idiots
used to provide with the rare,
refined music of Christopher
Fry’s “The Dark Is Light
Enough.”
There is such a lot to be said
for laughter—rich deep belly-
laughter. And it is true, maybe,
that, however delightful his high
wit may be, Fry has never really
got down to earth since the play
he took from Petronius, “A
Phoenix Too Frequent.”
“The Dark Is Light Enough”
almost gets there. It is tighter,
stronger, more dramatic, with a
lot more plot in it than the loose
“A Sleep of Prisoners.” It is
closer to life than the play next
best to “A Phoenix” —the piece
which made his reputation, “The
Lady’s Not For Burning.” Yet
it is never quite credible, it never
quite bites.
Purporting to be a drama of
the Hungarian revolution against
the Austrians in 1848-9, it is a
little too obviously merely a dis-
cussion about pacifism, or, if not
quite that, about the humanities
underlying the ferocity of war
and politics. An old Austrian
countess shelters a deserter from
the Hungarian army and then,
when the Hungarians are beaten,
offers her belfry again as a refuge
to one of their officers —the very
man who has turned her house
and her life upside-down in
pursuit of the deserter. In part
there is a drama based on these
incidents, but for the most part,
and overall, there is beautiful
talk in Fry’s beautiful verse
about the fundamental humanity
of man.
Of course there is no real com-
parison to be made between a
horse-laugh and the ringing of a
crystal bell; or, if there is, the
bell has infinitely the best of it.
But there might reasonably be a
comparison between this play
and Synge’s immortal “The Play-
boy of the Western World” seen
lately in (of all places!) Paris —
one of the actors had been out
in Australia with the Abbey
Players and had been to a party
in Brisbane given by E. G.
Theodore. On the one hand
there was this lovely, enchanted,
solid piece of Irish earth, perfect
in its dramatic movement; on
the other, this exquisite conversa-
tion. On the one hand a solid
snowball; on the other, a flurry
of snowflakes.
But what snowflakes they are!
Line after line of fine, clear wit;
line after line of lovely fresh
imagery; a warm, humane,
courageous philosophy; and,
when all has been said, quite
enough action, quite enough
duels, and searches, and curious
love-making, and lurking in hay-
lofts, and desperate unmaskings
to make a discussion seem very
much like a drama. In which
respect it is fortified by, among
others, Queensland’s Margaret
Johnston.
It would be a dangerous play
for amateurs. Everything de-
pends on one woman, the old
countess, the stock grand-lady
of the stage. Here she is Edith
Evans, sweet, warm-hearted, in-
finitely well-mannered, magnifi-
cently in control of herself, her
companions, her servants and the
audience from start to finish. If
the play remains a conversation
Edith Evans makes Fry seem, as
he is, by far the finest voice
speaking through the contempor-
ary theatre.
Douglas Stewart.
* ❖
“The Lady’s Not for Burn-
ing”
Fry’s “The Lady’s Not for
Burning” was given an airing
the other night by Brisbane’s
Twelfth Night Theatre. Edmund
Burke was Thomas Mendip, the
discharged soldier back from
some 15th-century war and
disillusioned with life, who up-
sets the officials of a small Eng-
lish village when he invents two
murders as an excuse for
demanding a public hanging.
Burke spoke the verse with
character if not melodiously.
His acting was confident and
with a swagger which suggested
that his search for death was not
to be taken seriously. He leaned
elegantly against the stage
columns, argued from time to
time in favor of his own exe-
cution, though always giving up
in favor of bouts of philosophis-
ing with Jacklyn Kelleher, as
Jennet Jourdemayne, accused of
being a witch and condemned to
death, but loving life as strongly
as Thomas hates it.
Miss Kelleher seemed a little
mesmerised by the poetry, but
she moved around the .stage with
an air of other-worldly beauty
which showed why the town
accused her of witchcraft as well
as why Thomas decided to give
life a second glance.
The chief eccentrics were
Lionel Jones, very mellow as
the town justice, and Edward
Hadgraft, spluttering his way
through the part of Hebble
Tyson, the catarrh-ridden mayor.
Arnold Linck’s set and cos-
tumes had something of the
charm of the illustrations to a
medieval manuscript. They
were an excellent setting for
Rhoda Felgate’s production, in
which there was enough dramatic
light and shade to prevent the
play from being static without
disturbing the atmosphere of
time standing still, so character-
istic of much of Fry’s work.
D. J. M.
♦♦♦ * ❖
“Hamlet”
William Orr’s production of
“Hamlet” at the Phillip-street
Theatre, Sydney, is marked with
efficiency in many ways —in its
rich costumes, its attractive
stagecraft and its well-drilled
cast.
The efficiency extends also to
Allan Trevor’s playing of Ham-
let, but this gives it a strange
and alien value. Mr. Trevor’s
high qualities—his appearance,
vigorous voice, excellent diction
and assured deportment —all
speak of self-command. No-
where is glimpsed evidence of
the overtaxed brain and shocked
nerves, and the result is that
Hamlet’s actions, in Mr. Trevor’s
clean-cut presentation —his be-
havior to Ophelia, his callous-
ness on the murder of Polonius
—lose their pathos and appear
discreditably shocking.
Corralie Neville’s Ophelia is
cowering and timorous from the
outset, so there is little room
left for her descent into mad-
ness ; and, although the part is
well-maintained, the interpreta-
tion of it demands a whispering,
gasping delivery quite inadequate
to deal with Shakspearian
speech. Madge Ryan’s Queen,
commanding in appearance, is
too hard and businesslike —her
ringing voice and definite ges-
tures indicate a strength of
character not generally credited
to Gertrude.
David Butler’s Polonius is
original and convincing: small,
harmless, tedious, but not un-
lovable ; his pompousness tem-
pered-down and his devotion to
the crown not discreditable.
For once the Queen’s descrip-
tion of him as “the good old
man” sounds quite reasonable.
Owen Weingott’s Laertes is a
daredevil man-of-the-world, but
James Workman’s Horatio is so
pallid as to be almost invisible.
Claudius (Kenneth Warren) is a
villain of the modern world,
conscienceless and tough, and
the minor characters fulfil their
tasks with varying success;
throughout their stage move-
ments, groupings and general
preparation, there is evidence of
much hard work and sound
direction.
% &
Cammeray Concert
The Cammeray (Sydney)
Music Group’s latest concert in-
cluded pianist Dr. David Maddi-
son, soprano Valda Bagnall and
tenor Michael Khlentzos, with
Marta Zalan as accompanist.
Dr. Maddison demonstrated
his mastery of phrasing in a
poetic reading of Schubert’s B
Flat Impromptu; of a Chopin
group the most satisfying was
the A Flat Study with incisive
arpeggio playing ; and pyrotech-
nics were supplied by two Liszt
transcriptions, particularly the
Grand March from “Tann-
hauser,” an avalanche of
tumbling notes.
Valda Bagnall sang “Caro
Nome” from “Rigoletto” and
“E Strano” and “For e liu”
from “Traviata,” To a soprano
of nice quality she adds a most
engaging platform-manner.
Michael Khlentzos’s most im-
portant contribution was Beeth-
oven’s greatest song “Adelaide,”
sung with commendable
restraint.
■£♦ *Z*
“She Stoops to Conquer”
Goldsmith’s comedy was
played by the St. Andrew’s Col-
lege Dramatic Society in the
Union Hall at Sydney Uni-
versity, and, in the main, they
played it with an oddly success-
ful mixture of gusto and polish.
Appropriately enough for the
period, it was the women —such
as Ruth Goldberg, as Mrs.
Hardcastle, and Beverley Mac-
donald, as Miss Hardcastle—
who provided the gusto, and the
men —Allan Kendall and David
Rofe, as Marlow and Hastings
—who provided the polish.
Kendall and Rofe, particularly,
caught the manneredness of the
18th century, although refined
dabbing of the nose becomes, if
overdone, less suggestive of a
period-gentleman than of a cold
in the head.
David Donald’s Hardcastle,
senior, was urbane and dignified,
and his controlled rages were
something to see. Derek Cas-
sidy’s Tony Lumkin was a trifle
labored, but Patricia Conolly’s
Miss Neville was both pretty
and prettily acted.
Allan Kendall’s production
whisked the piece along so lightly
and gracefully that it was never
in danger of being trapped in
its own farce.
G. P.
♦> ♦> ❖
“Barbara Blomberg”
This was played in German
at the Wallace Theatre at Sydney
University, and, although
linguistic abilities had to take
precedence over other considera-
tions, it was still a production of
considerable interest.
Barbara Blomberg was the
mother of Don Juan of Aus-
tria, hero of the battle of
Lepanto and of Chesterton’s
poem. Despite her alliterative
and almost hypnotic name, she
had no blue blood, a shortcom-
ing to which Chesterton was
possibly referring when he spoke
of Don Juan’s springing “from a
half-attainted stall.”
The play centres around
Spanish machinations to prove
Don Juan is not his father’s son.
Barbara shows so much skill in
outwitting these, and so much
more in playing the great lady,
that she gets herself installed as
mistress of a castle, as befits the
mother of the darling of Europe.
In the castle she continues out-
witting Spaniards, and devotes
such spare time as this leaves her
to falling in love with Ratcliff —
“ein Abenteurer.”
The Spaniards arrest Ratcliff,
but Don Juan arrives and saves
him. This is the first time mother
and son have clapped eyes on
each other since Don Juan was
born, but they recognise each
other’s heroic qualities and hit it
off well..
Since Spain and England are
on the verge of war, Barbara
tactfully realises that this is not
the moment to present her son
with an English stepfather, so
Ratcliff transfers himself and his
adventuring back to England,
while Barbara retires to the
obscurity from which she sprang.
There were some good
moments in an uneven but
courageous performance, and
Henriette Ernst brought dignity,
if not quite enough fire, to the
long and difficult central role.
G. P.
Artbursts
Child Art
A show of child art from Gee-
long Grammar at the Peter Bray
Galleries in Melbourne prompts
the question as to why so much
importance is attached to the
pictures of adults who try to
paint like children if the children
can do as well as they can. Some
of the efforts of the juveniles in
pigment, lino, string, wire, wood
and metal could be hung in some
contemporary adult exhibitions
and nobody would notice any
difference—in fact, some of the
kids’ abstractions would look
much fresher and more lively.
A Fine Arts professor who
gave the show his benediction
predicted that, when these art-
conscious boys and girls reach
the age when they have purchas-
ing power, the bazaars of
Bourke- and Collins-streets will
have the shock of their lives,
because it will be they who will
set the standards.
If he is right, the artist who
believes that painting involves
a lifetime of incessant practice
might just as well pack up his
paints and brushes and go jump
in the lake.
F. S.
Talkies
“The Student Prince”
The M.-G.-M, version of
Romberg’s tuneful operetta has
the benefit of a script which gives
emphasis to natural conversa-
tion, and which keeps the story
moving briskly. A newcomer,
Edmund Purdom, gives a stylish
performance in the title-role;
but some of the gilt rubs off the
gingerbread with the realisation
that the songs are being sung by
Mario Lanza, who over-
emotionalises every number in
his usual exaggerated bel canto
style.
Much more natural is the
singing of Ann Biyth as the inn-
keeper’s daughter—and for that
she can be forgiven for pulling
a beer with a 9in. collar on it.


Blizzard country
By V.F.H.
a I F you strike trouble in the
pressure-ice, turn back to
j camp. There’s no sense in
taking needless risk,
although a food-dump on the
Long Beach side of the Abbot-
smith would be handy,”
Ginbey, leader of the Antarctic
expedition, eyed the loaded
sledge and the six huskies curled
in the snow, heads resting on
their paws, slitted eyes gazing
dreamily at a few sheathbills run-
ning through the camp.
Dave Browning and Jim
Carroll, selected to depot food
and camping-equipment on the
wild, ice-bound slopes of
Mawson Peak, nodded briefly
and walked to the outfit. Both
tall, full-bearded and dressed in
dirty windproof clothing, they
wasted no time, Carroll checked
the load, then climbed on to the
tarpaulin-covered boxes of food
and fuel. Browning coiled his
long dog-whip, took his position
at the driver’s handlebars, and
tapped softly with the. whip-
handle.
The intelligent huskies leapt
to their feet, shook themselves
free of loose snow and settled
into their harnesses. Browning
grasped the handlebars. “Mush
hi!” he roared, and the six
powerful dogs strained against
their fan-trace, yelping with
excitement as they brought their
combined weight to breaking the
sledge from the frozen snow-
crust.
With a snap it broke out, and
the sledge moved quickly ahead
as the dogs hit their stride. To
a chorus of excited howling from
the dogs remaining in camp, the
sledge left the tiny settlement and
headed across a flat, windblown
plain towards their first objective,
the Vahssel Glacier, wide,
rugged, curving to the sea from
the massive, ice-covered cliffs of
the mountain. The team paired-
off and soon settled down to a
distance-making stride, leaning
against each other for added
leverage, their short, powerful
legs driving forward like pistons,
heads down, shoulders straining,
tongues extended to gulp snow
as they travelled.
Runners squeaking softly as
they turned to avoid obstacles,
the sledge moved steadily
forward, and the two men
watched the slow-motion picture
of hill and frozen mountain glide
past. Strange patterns of crusty
snow, huge boulders left behind
when the ancient glaciers
retreated from the sea, a group
of elephant-seals lying in a heap,
a lone penguin sitting on a
hummock of sand and grass, a
deep, rocky glacial stream, frozen
solid. And a high, steep moraine
loomed ahead.
TIROWNING halted the team,
unwound his legs from the
handlebar-supports and walked
forward to the panting dogs.
He gave each dog an affectionate
pat and made minor adjustments
to the traces. Carroll joined him.
“Pretty easy so far,” he said.
“But I can’t see it lasting.”
“No,” replied Browning,
wrestling with his lead dogs.
“When we cross this moraine
and start across the glacier
there’ll be trouble unless the
dogs keep well apart. The snow
bridges will be soft, and we can’t
afford to lose one before the
Abbotsmith.”
Carroll nodded. “Let’s get
going again. I think I’ll walk up
the hill and give these fellows a
chance.”
They returned to the sledge,
and once again the six huskies
responded to a gentle tapping on
the handlebars, and with the two
men walking slowly, behind,
occasionally pushing on the
steeper stretches, the dogs
dragged * the heavy load up a
long snow-valley, at times wading
chest-deep through soft patches,
until they cleared a stony ridge
and sank panting to their bellies.
Browning and Carroll sat on
the sledge to regain their breath,
then scrambled through deep
snow-drifts to find the easiest
route on to the glacier which now
stretched before them. Silently
they gazed ahead across miles ot
blue ice, swept clear of snow by
almost constant Antarctic winds.
Browning looked at his com-
panion and shrugged.
“Fd like more snow on the
Jevel going, but at least we can
see the crevasses until that
pressure-ice on the right is
reached. After that we’ll be
right until we reach the Abbot-
smith.”
They went back to the sledge,
and guided the sturdy team
through a maze of lava-ridges
and boulders until they could
cross on to the ice.
Their route lay beneath a high
cliff on which a hanging glacier
clung ponderously. Against the
towering grandeur of the ice-
covered cliff the sledge seemed
ridiculously tiny, and the dogs,
conscious of the nearness of the
mass, looked nervously over their
shoulders at the driver. He
encouraged them with soft,
meaningless phrases, and they
put their shoulders into their
work and faced ahead.
Legs stiffened against sliding
on the clear ice, the dogs gingerly
moved forward. With gentle
pressure from Browning and
Carroll on the rear of the sledge
there was little for them to do
but maintain their balance. The
brass slid easily on the smooth
surface, the flexible sledge bend-
ing and squeaking as it moved
over small hummocks of ice and
slid into shallow channels cut in
the glacier’s surface by summer
thaws.
On their left were snow-
covered icefalls, great blocks of
ice falling slowly but inexorably
from the cliffs of the mountain ;
on their right a maze of blue ice-
ridges leading down to the
leaden, tumbling sea.
Gradually the sledge traversed
the smooth, level stretch and
travelled along a narrow snow-
valley. At the end of the valley
Browning turned the team, and
the outfit began to climb a hill
towards a moraine that bordered
their objective, the dangerous
Abbotsmith Glacier.
For many months the two men'
had worked as a perfect team,
and now Carroll drew an ice-
axe from beneath the lashings,
and without comment walked
ahead up the slope, investigating
the snow bridges that covered
crevasses, poking into the
surfaces with his ice-axe, turning
aside from the worst and seeking
an alternate route.
The dogs, spread wide on their
fan-trace, followed slowly while
Browning controlled the sledge,
weaving in and around the
crevasses. They»zigzagged uphill,
past steep-sided fissures that
dropped away beside them.*
These great cracks in the creep-
ing sheet of ice were incredibly
beautiful. Pale blue at the
surface, they gradually deepened
in color through every shade of
blue and purple before disappear-
ing in darkness near the bottom.
Ice-crystals gleamed in the weak
sunlight, and festoons of snow,
like an imitation Christmas-tree,
clung to irregular parts of the
sheer sides. Browning had little
time for the beauty below him,
but concentrated on his dogs,
moving them right and left to
follow Carroll’s tracks.
ICROM ahead, Carroll cleared
the last big crevasse and
turned to signal his mate that the
worst was passed. He sat on the
ice and watched the straining
huskies leaning on their traces,
pulling hard, shoulders bulging,
the sledge moving slowly but
steadily uphill, and as they came
closer Carroll rose to his feet and
encouraged them with cries of
“Come on, lads!”
At the first shout they stopped,
then, with Browning urging them
from the rear, they sprang
forward, jerking the sledge in a
series of fast rushes to the crest
of the ridge. There was no need
to halt them; each dog spread
his legs wide and hung his head ;
blue, enlarged tongue fully
extended, chest heaving.
Both men moved among them,
affectionately rewarding them
for their efforts. Tired though
they were, the leaders reared on
to their hind-legs and wrapped
their forelegs around Browning’s
waist and laid their heads against
his chest. He stroked the sleek
heads and pulled the short
pointed ears, and a look of quiet
satisfaction stole over the faces
of the big, intelligent dogs.
“That was a fair effort, Dave,
but nothing to what’s coming.
We'd better rest them completely
before we move into the Abbot-
smith,” Carroll said.
Browning nodded. “Well
move over to the head of that
moraine and make a brew. But
we can’t afford to spend much
time this side of the glacier. By
the look of that cloud over the
sea I think we can expect some
weather, and I want to be across
before it arrives.”
They walked ahead for a short
way, then Browning called his
lead-dogs, and the team followed
slowly to a tumbled mass of rock
that marked the highest point of
the moraine. Browning un-
packed a tiny petrol-stove, and
shoved snow into the tiny spot
that was part of the stove-case.
As it melted he dropped more
into it until there was enough
water for both men.
Carroll climbed to the summit
of the moraine, and with glasses
tried to plan a route for the cross-
ing of the Abbotsmith Glacier.
It was impossible.
From high on the mountain,
where feathers of cloud were
beginning to form as the
approaching storm began to cross
the island at high altitude, to the
ice-choked ocean-swell far below,
the glacier presented an unbroken
barrier of tumbled ice, at times a
crazy pattern of crevasses inter-
woven like cracks in the surface
of a dry clay waterhole, at others
a miniature mountain range of
razorbacked ridges and
dangerous falls which would
have been difficult for men on
foot.
He swept the glasses towards
the sea. The glacier ended be-
tween two massive rock-bluffs in
a fantastic jumble of pressure-
ice, with great pinnacles forced
up by the pressure beneath
towering above the ice-stream.
As he watched a huge mass fell
away with a resounding crack
and disappeared from sight.
Seconds later a dull boom told
of the end of its fall, and boulders
of ice leaped and jerked to the
terminating cliff and hurtled into
the sea.
whistled softly and
picked his way down to the
sledge.
“What was that noise, mate?”
asked Browning.
“That noise meant that we’d
have been better off in camp.
We’ll never get through this lot.”
“We knew it’d be bad before
we left.”
“Yeah. Let’s have this brew
and try to find a way across
before the storm catches us.”
He poured the steaming cocoa
into enamel cups. They drank
the hot, rich liquid quickly, and
Carroll picked up his ice-axe and
walked towards the glacier, kick-
ing his tricooni nails into the
hard snow to make a trail that
the dogs could follow. He passed
along the lip of a big hollow
and moved in along the ridges,
carefully testing the snow bridges
as he went.
The sledge followed slowly, the
dogs trembling with fear as they
fought to keep their feet.
Progress was painfully slow.
Without snow to grip the runners,
Browning had to manhandle the
sledge back to the centre as it
slid towards the silent, gaping
holes on each side. On these
narrow paths the dogs huddled
together, at times forced into
single file so that only the leaders
could pull the load.
Carroll suddenly yelled a warn-
ing, and waved Browning back
Scrambling quickly down an
almost sheer ice-face, he moved
rapidly along the ridge to the
sledge, digging his axe deep into
the hard ice to gain more lever-
age on the slippery surface.
“My God, Dave, there’s a
crevasse up l there nobody could
cross. We’re stuck in the middle
of this lot with a blizzard coming
in fast.”
“Take it easy, Jim.” Browning
tightened a lashing. “Stay here
and keep these dogs still and I’ll
have a look.”
“Use my axe,”
Browning grabbed the axe and
ran ahead, disregarding the dogs
which scrambled feverishly out
of his way. Completely at ease
on any ice, he moved quickly,
and the axe flashed right and
left as he rapidly cut steps in the
ice-face and climbed to the ridge-
top.
What he saw appalled him.
Three-hundred yards long and
a hundred feet wide, the giant
fissure yawned silently and
malignantly in front of him,
without a snow bridge of any
kind, and surrounded by great
masses of broken ice flung one
on another by the rapidly moving
glacier. As he stood on the razor-
backed ridge a sudden gust of
wind swept past, and he turned
to face a solid fall of snow that
drove obliquely uphill from the
sea.
“Must get a tent up before it
gets too bad,” he muttered, and
swung his feet down the slope,
dug the head of axe in and slid
to the level ridge below, using
the axe-point as a brake.
The huskies, sensing trouble,
moved restlessly towards him,
whimpering. He quietened them
roughly and yelled to Carroll
above the rising wind,
“We’ll have to go back. Take
that side of the sledge and try
to keep it steady while I get the
team around.”
Carroll eased the sledge gently
towards the lip of the crevasse,
and Browning took the lead-dog’s
collar and led him carefully
along the narrow space, settled
the big dog and ordered him to
stay down, then returned to the
second leader. Four times the
perilous balancing act was per-
formed, and Browning began to
feel relieved as he half-carried
the fifth trembling dog along the
ledge. He felt a flurry of rope
snake against his legs, and hurled
himself forward and yelled to
Carroll to hang on to the sledge
as the last dog, quivering wide-
eyed with fear, tried to join his
mates alone, and with a belly-
deep wail of terror slipped over
the edge and crashed, still
MR. FERRITT
Now Mr. Ferritt
with his troublesome nose,
with his unshaved chin,
and his voice like a grief
that grates in dark corners,
moves in his house
and scrapes hia dry skin
and sees it is morning.
Oh day, you sly thief,
now what have you stolen
of all the small things
I tie on my life?
The radio serial
whines in the kitchen
caught in a box
and cannot get out.
The finch in his cage;
the border of phlox
as straight as a string
marked out in my garden;
the potted geranium;
all are there.
But day from hia cranium
twitches one hair,
and never again
will a hair grow there.
Oh day you sly thief
how you pluck at my life—
frets Mr. Ferritt;
but there, he must bear it.
Outside the fence *
the wattle-tree grows.
It tosses, it shines,
it speaks its one word.
Beware—beware!
Mr. Ferritt has heard!
What are axes for?
What are fences for?
Who planted that wattle-tree
right at my door?
God only knows.
All over the garden
its gold is shaken—
no wonder I sneeze
as soon as I waken 1
Oh world, you sly thief,
my youth you have taken.
And what have you given
who promised me heaven,
but a nagging wife
and a chronic catarrh
and a blonde on the pictures
as far as a star?
But wild and gold
as a film-star’s hair
this tree stands there,
blocking the view
from my twenty-perch block.
What are axes for,
what are fences for,
but to keep this tree
away from my door?
And down fell the tree;
but poor Mr. Ferritt
still has hay-fever.
Nothing will cure it.
Q-
JUDITH WRIGHT.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8» White; A • 0» Parker .
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
’Phone: BW 8361.
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
ihis
UOH
ee
a
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
BMC
ten*
LOOK AT THESE LOW PRICES:
BASIC TRACTOR: Kerosene-operated with electric
lighting and starting, belt pulley, drawbar, inde-
pendent turning brakes, hour meter, sponge seat, chaff
screen and canvas engine cover —all as standard
equipment —with 4 steel wheels, 30 x 5 (fronts),
55 x 9 (rears), with spade lugs—£799,
OPTIONAL WHEEL AND PNEUMATIC TYRE EQUIP-
MENT: 6.00 x 19, front; 11 x 36, rear; pressed steel
centres—£Bo additional.
7.50 x 18, front; 14 x 30, rear; pressed steel centres
—£lB6 additional.
7.50 x 18, front; 14 x 30, rear; heavy duty centres
(front centres 146 lbs. each, rear centres 630 lbs.
each) —£264 additional.
OPTIONAL EXTRA EQUIPMENT: 108" axle, £l5;
hydraulic lift and PTO, £99/18/-; overload release,
£l9; hand clutch, £6/5/-.
All prices F.O.R. Capital Cities.
Diesel models and row-crop models with twin front
wheels are available.
NOTE: Tractor has now been increased a full 10 % in
brake and drawbar h.p., and new modified front and
steering make it more robust, extra strong. Hydraulic
lift and P.T.O, controls now engage independently —
operate separately or fogetherl
'omplete this coupon—or call or phone—and your nearest
fuffield Dealer will arrange a special demonstration on your
property.
COUPON
Fill in this coupon. Address an envelope to the Nuffield Dealer in your
town or to your Distributor (listed below).
PLEASE USE BLOCK LETTERS
NAME
ADDRESS 1
ACREAGE MAIN CROP
OTHER USES FOR TRACTOR
DISTRIBUTORS—
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-FALKINER
PTY LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS LIMITED. South Australia; KINGSWAY
LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
'NT .25.32 „
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD- A UN l '
BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
clawing madly at the ice, into the
crevasse.
WHIPPED around by the
violent jerking on the trace,
the sledge slewed towards the
edge, and Carroll sobbed with
the strain as he fought to keep
it on the ridge. Browning
scrambled across to help,
jammed both hands hard on to
the hickory brake. The
dangerous slide stopped abruptly,
and he gingerly rose to his feet
and stood on the brake while
Carroll,. breathing heavily with
exertion and relief, pulled until
the sledge was again level, and
pointing in the opposite direction,
“Well, that’s turned it round,
Dave,” he panted. “Now let’s
have a look at this dog.”
While Browning held the
sledge he hauled on the trace
that lay taut over the lip. It
slowly coiled at his feet as the
heavy, ominously still animal
was dragged to the top. It was
dead. Without speaking Carroll
stripped the harness from its
battered body, roughly coiled the
trace and stuffed it beneath a
lashing, then with his foot shoved
the dead dog back into the
crevasse, where it fell thumping
dully to the bottom.
Leaning forward against the
wind which was now blowing
flurries of snow down the funnel
caused by the ridges, Carroll
went silently to the lead-dogs,
and led them carefully back
along the flat ridge-top. The
dogs stuck close to his legs. With
increasing force the blizzard
hurled itself against the tiny
island. The violent gusts seemed
to wind themselves up at sea and
hurtle up the glacier, spinning
great blinding clouds of snow
that struck the sledging party
and sent them crouching against
the ice, blinded, their minds con-
fused by the pitiless roaring blast.
During each short lull they
half-rose and pushed on until the
next gust made them cower face
down for protection. Carroll
suddenly sensed that the
dangerous path was passed, and
found to his surprise that they
were on an open space formed
by the junction of several
crevasses. He scrambled back
to the sledge, and between them
the two exhausted men turned
the heavy load on its side,
anchored it as best they could
with ice-axes, then crouched in
its shelter. Carroll pulled back
Browning’s 5 hood and shouted
in his ear.
“Don’t think we could get a
tent up here. Have to wait until
it blows over ...”
Browning nodded vigorously
in reply, and they huddled
together against the frozen
tarpaulin, their gloved hands
pressed to their faces. The dogs
one by one crawled on their
bellies into the precarious refuge,
and the two men, chilling rapidly
after their exertions, encouraged
them, bringing them closer and
using their rough coats and
warmth to keep alive.
They could not tell when dark-
ness came. Stupefied by the
howling, thrusting wind that sent
eddies of cutting snow cork-
screwing in crazy patterns around
them, they began to grow weary,
sick of ice and snow and the
endless roaring that rose to a
stomach-thrilling shriek in the
more violent spasms, tired
beyond expression of the suc-
cession of lulls and whistling
snow blasts. If they could only
sleep, get away from the wind.
But sleep in a blizzard like this
meant death for both . . . must
stay awake . . . wonder how
many will care . . . who’ll come
out to find us .. .
A WAKING with a terrified
start, Carroll glared wildly
around him, his mind striving
desperately to get back to life.
He tried to stand, but his legs
refused to move. An uncon-
trollable shaking seized him, and
he pushed against the sledge with
head and hands and forced him-
self on to his knees.
His voice returned in one
frantic burst: “Dave, wake up!
Dave, for God’s sake wake up!”
and he fell across Browning’s
still form and began pushing his
shoulders and slapping his
bearded, ice-encrusted face.
Browning’s eyes flickered, then
slowly opened. Carroll kept
pushing, his whole body in agony
as the dying blood revived and
began moving through his
numbed body. Again he tried
to stand, and found that his legs
would move. He cried out with
pain, and struggled grimly to his
feet.
The dogs, awakened by the
movement, arose from the pro-
tecting banks of snow which had
formed around them and shook
themselves vigorously, showering
the men with a fine spray of
snow. The two leaders moved
stiffly to their master and sniffed
the cold face, which was work-
ing dumbly with the pain of
waking.
Carroll grasped his dying com-
panion under the arms and
hauled desperately until Brown-
ing lay against the sledge. With
only one thought in his mind, to
get his friend moving, Carroll
ignored the tingling, dancing
agony in his legs and forced
himself to lift the heavy man
erect.
The blizzard had gone, and
in the weird half-light and falling
snow that remained the two men
staggered drunkenly about the
tiny clear space, legs buckled,
mouths open, eyes bulging and
staring. They tripped in a bank
of snow and fell headlong, and
crawled brokenly back to the
sledge and clawed themselves
erect.
The dogs stood and watched,
heads on one side and ears
pricked, as the macabre, shuffling
dance continued and life returned
with agonising slowness to both
men. Finally, with the gait of
qien badly bruised, they helped
each other to the sledge and sat
down on it. The gentle snow
fell around them like a picture in
a child’s book, and the dogs came
timidly towards them, but they
didn’t notice.
“My left foot is gone, Jim.”
Browning’s voice startled
Carroll.
“Frostbite?”
“Think so. I can’t feel it.
Completely numb. I think we’d
better return as soon as we get
more light.”
“Stay there and I’ll have a look
at it.”
Carroll took a knife from his
belt and dropped to his knees.
He awkwardly cut the lacings
from Browning’s boot, and with
the blade forced the opened flaps
aside and cut down to the sole
on each side. The boot came
off easily after that, and he cut
away the woollen sock. Brown-
ing’s foot was dead white almost
to the ankle, and the toes were
turning black and beginning to
crack.
“We’ll have to move now,
Dave. It’s pretty bad.”
Browning nodded. “Kill Inky,
he’s the worst of them and we
can get back easily with four.”
There was no time to be lost.
Carroll walked to the black
husky now lying in his snow-
hole and led him to the other
side of the sledge. The big dog
began whimpering and cringing,
as if he knew what was coming,
and as Carroll lifted the dog’s
head it began struggling. Carroll
cut its throat as quickly as he
could, and dragged the quivering
body back to Browning. He
ripped the belly open and
without warning thrust Brown-
ing’s frozen foot into the cavity.
Browning looked dumbly at *t,
then fell forward with pain and
shock.
STILL driven by the urgent
need for medical attention,
Carroll slashed the lashings that
held the sledge load, and tumbled
the boxes and cans of fuel on to
the snow. With his ice-axe he
chipped the sledge free of the
crust of solid snow and kicked it
over, grabbed a sleeping-bag
from the disordered heap and
laid it full length along the sledge.
With trembling fingers he
opened the side-zipps, heaved the
dead dog on to the bottom end,
then vigorously rubbed. Brown-
ing’s unconscious face with snow.
Browning came to, spluttering,
and between them they moved
him on to the bag and forced the
foot back inside the warm body.
Carroll closed the bag and lashed
it down with the two spare traces.
He led the now-excited dogs to
their positions and staggered
through the snowdrifts to the
driving handlebars.
“Mush, hi lads!” he shouted,
and they leaped forward, jerking
the sledge across the snow-
choked clearing at reckless
speed. Carroll kept shouting at
the yelping team, urging them
forward, and as the mounting
excitement spread from one to
the other they closed together
and took complete control.
Carroll, weakened by the
struggle to revive his companion,
let them go, not caring whether
they crashed or not, and wedged
himself into the handlebars. The
sledge careered through snow-
drifts and showered the two
riders with powdery snow,
bucked madly over splintered ice
and skimmed swiftly along the
edges of crevasses, sunken lids
of soft snow and bounced
on to firm ice as the bridges fell
away behind.
The team was suddenly con-
fronted with a long narrow
crevasse, and scrambled away,
but as the speeding sledge began
to overrun them they leaped into
space, found snow on the other
side' and jerked the outfit across.
It swayed madly from side to
side and ran a few yards on one
runner, righted itself, and swept
to safety along the lip of the deep
blue ice-ravine that marked the
edge of the glacier.
CARROLL watched the chasm
slide by, then roused himself
with an effort and stood on the
brake. The sledge ground to a
stop, and the dogs looked over
the shoulders with bloodshot,
inquiring eyes. He walked halt-
ingly forward and fell on his
knees among them and let them
climb over him, dumb with
admiration and gratitude; then
struggled to his feet.
“You all right, Dave?”
Browning opened his eyes.
“A few more hours and we’ll
be home and the doc. can have a
go at that foot.”
Browning grinned and nodded.
Carroll walked back to the
sledge, flung his leg over the bar
and began searching for clear
route across the glacier ahead,
turned for a last look at the
broken river of ice that lay
behind, then shouted to the four
huskies standing expectantly in
the traces.
“Mush, lads!”


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £1/1 6/ —
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £3
C Please add exchange
Foreign .... £2/10/-
to country cheques)
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
THE GOD and THE MACHINE
BY NORMAN KING
IT was a threadbare joke, and,
more than ever before, the
scrawled “clear and starry,”
written across the pre-shift
inspection form, filled me with
annoyance.
The terse phrase began at the
section, “condition of roof,” but,
written as it was in unnaturally
large letters, it spread across the
form at a tangent, a little mock-
ing, poking fun at coalmines
regulations which did not recog-
nise opencuts as such and, under
the Act, regarded them as under-
ground establishments.
Deputies, after making their
pre-shift inspections of the cuts,
prodding the sides for overhangs,
testing the electrical circuits for
faults and the trailing cables for
weathering, traditionally wrote
a brief description of the sky in
the section dealing with the con-
dition of the roof. At first it was
calculated to bring a dash of
humor to an otherwise dull and
routine report, but, after a few
years in opencuts, the joke
became anaemic.
Looking out through the
glassed-in side of the office I
could see the Marion 12yd.
walking-dragline, rearing its
monstrous steel bulk against the
morning skyline. The immense
tracery of the 175 ft.-long boom
lifted like the neck of a swan,
the steel cables clutching the
great toothed bucket tightly so
that wind action against the keel-
surface would not impose
unnecessary strain on the jib.
I never ceased to marvel that
such a gigantic piece of earth-
moving machinery, weighing 640
tons and capable of ripping 15
tons of earth and rock from the
strata at each bite,
could function on such
a profound scale, let
alone propel itself from
one place to another.
To see the colossus
swinging its huge
bucket, plunging it into
the ground and drag-
ging out rock and soil
which would bury a
coal-lorry beyond
recognition was impres-
sive enough, but to see
the giant rocking its
prodigious weight and
shuffling its monstrous
shoes alternately forward was
uncanny. Even after the Marion
had been in operation for
months and we came to regard
as commonplace the mountain-
ous spoil-banks of overburden
the dragline left in its wake, the
fact that it was on the move was
sufficient to halt all other activity
in the cut.
The dragline had been
assembled along the line of the
coal seam, so that it seldom had
far to walk before squatting
comfortably on its superbly
balanced shoes for a further
spell. When the huge boom
began to swing again, plunging
into the virgin soil and tearing
deeply into the sandstone, the
trucks began moving again and
the mechanical-shovel loaders,
deep down in the cuts, plunged
at the exposed coal.
It was an eerie sight to see
the Marion walking, the single
operator antlike in his glassed-
in cabin high on the side of the
throbbing power-station which
gave the monster motion ; and it
was not surprising that the men
who operated the 12yd. walkers
were the highest paid in the
industry.
The sight of the colossus,
standing out there on the flat
like some fantastic bird at rest,
was disturbing. Although it was
more than a mile and a half
away the size of the dragline
dwarfed everything about it. Not
only did it dominate everything
mechanical about it, but it made
the humans around it
seem completely tiny
and insignificant.
AND now, half an
hour after starting-
time, the Marion was
still idle, even though
the greasers an hour
earlier had brought its
incomprehensible machinery into
working order and had carefully
eased the immense electrical
cable, thicker than a man’s
thigh, from its possible path.
The writhing cable snaked back
over the spoil-banks to where a
mobile electrical sub-station
followed in the wake of the
monster.
The engineer had just gone,
slamming the door behind him
and yelling for his truck. To
him the dragline, instead of being
a mechanical marvel of the 20th
century,* represented a profit-
margin for the company. When
the dragline worked smoothly
and with terrifying efficiency
even its colossal weekly hire-rates
were nothing more than a book-
entry, but when it lay idle
because of some mechanical
fault or industrial trouble the
Marion was a tremendous
liability.
“It’s your problem,” the
engineer had yelled. “You’re
plant-manager around here, and
it’s up to you to see the plant
functions smoothly. Sure I
know the plant can’t operate
without drivers, but that’s your
worry, too. I don’t care how
you do it, but get that dragline
working; if the darky’s not here
then get Sanders. Yes, I know
he’s on afternoon-shift and it’ll
mean doubling-up, but there’s
nothing else we can do, the place
might as well shut down if there’s
no one here to operate the drag-
line. I hope your mate’s got a
good Excuse, that’s all,”
“He might be sick,” I offered.
“A man can’t work when he’s
sick.”
“Sick? Yes, sick of work you
mean. I’ll bet you a week’s
wages he’s gone fishing again.
Loafer. Why I ever recom-
mended him as one of the three
operators for the dragline I don’t
know! ”
“He’s the best operator you’ve
got; he can handle the big brute
like a toy,” I said defensively.
“You said so yourself.”
“Yes, and it’s been slung up
at me ever since. Sure he can
handle the confounded thing as
if he’s been doing nothing else
all his life, but what’s the use of
him being a crackerjack operator
if he’s missing a couple of days
each week? These half-castes
are all alike too damned
irresponsible! When he comes
in tell him 1 want to see him,
but, in the meantime, you'd
better get on to Sanders again.
It means a double-up for him,
and he’ll come in wingeing and
grizzling about going to the
union, but he’ll come.
Remember, I want that dragline
working by nine o’clock, > even
if you’ve got to get up there
and work it yourself!”
After the engineer had gone 1
sat for a few moments, looking
out at the motionless boom of
the dragline. It was the third
time in less than a fortnight that
Jerry Waring had failed to turn
up at the beginning of a shift,
and things had been thrown into
a state of utter confusion. It was
amazing to what extent one key
man could disorganise an open-
cut.
I was still looking out the
window when Jim Hamilton
came in.
TIM was the timekeeper, small,
** sandy-haired and with a head
for figures. He wore thick-lensed
glasses which gave his pale-blue
eyes a slightly apologetic expres-
sion. Among other things Jim
took a keen interest in anthro-
pology, and, for this reason, was
intensely absorbed in the half-
caste dragline-operator.
“Jerry’s missing?” Jim said,
shuffling his papers from hand
to hand. “Did he give any
reason, or did he just shoot
through again?”
“No, no reason.”
“Isn’t he down at the hostel;
crook, or anything like that?”
“No.”
“Gone fishing again?”
“How in the hell would I
know? He does what he likes
when he leaves here, doesn’t he?”
Jim nodded agreeably.
“Sure he does, but he’s a mate
of yours, isn’t he? You were
in the Army together.*’
“What’s that got to do with
it?”
“Nothing, except you could
ask him what it’s all about, can’t
you? Jerry’s a quiet, easygoing
sort of bloke, but he doesn’t talk
about himself much. Because
of his color, I suppose.”
“R0t,”.1 replied rudely.
“It’s not rot, I’ve made a pretty
close study of the aborigines and
the problems of absorbing
colored children ...”
“Yair? Well, listen, Jim —some
other time. Will you tell Teddy
to phone down to the hostel and
get hold of Mick Sanders? He’ll
have to do another doubler.”
The timekeeper folded his
arms and looked out the window,
running the tip of his tongue
around his lips.
“No need. Ted’s already
phoned and teed everything up.
Mick wants double-time for the
double-up, but I didn’t say yes
or I didn’t say no. Let him take
it to the union.”
“0.K., that takes care of that.”
“Yes, but what about Jerry?”
“Well, what about him?”
“Will I dock him? I’m
supposed to be the timekeeper
around here.”
“Yes. No, not yet anyway.
We’ll wait and find out what he’s
got to say for himself, he might
have the most valid reason in the
world for missing a shift.”
“Yes, he might, or somebody
might have sung the moodoo into
him, he might have gone walk-
about.”
My patience was running out.
“What damned rot —Jerry’s as
civilised as you or I! ”
Jim lifted thin bony hands in
a gesture of dismay.
“Sure he is. Don’t get me
wrong, boy. But something’s got
under his skin and I’d like to
know what it was. I’m interested
in those sort of things, you
know,”
“So I’ve noticed, but what’s
this moodoo business you men-
tioned?”
“The moodoo song? Oh, it’s
mixed up in an old aborigine
legend about a love-song or chant
that is sung in a person’s absence,
and can charm his shade from
his body so that he has to follow
along the magic trail. It’s quite
an interesting theory.”
TVESPITE myself I felt a
twinge of interest and some
other emotion I couldn’t define.
“What a lot of rot,” I said
tersely to quell the feeling. “You
seem to think Jerry’s nothing but
an ignorant tribal boong. He’s
lived among whites all his life,
and you couldn’t have got a
better mate in the Army.”
“The kurakun,” Jim mused,
his watery eyes blinking out
towards the dragline. “I was up
in the Mara country along the
Roper River during the war,
and that’s where I first heard
about the moodoo legend. It
goes something like this: once a
man or a girl sings a moodoo
and throws a hair into the air,
then the kurakun will take it
away and cause such emotion in
the one that is being sung that
he or she is helpless to resist and
must follow blindly. Sounds
silly to us, doesn’t it?”
“Crazy, all right; now clear
out, Jim, I’ve got a lot of work
to do. When Jerry turns up tell
him I want him straight away.”
With his hand on the door-
knob the timekeeper turned and
looked at me abstractedly.
“They’ve got another legend
up there,” he began. “It tells
of Wadaman, a member of the
forbidden frill-neck-lizard totem
who ran away from the tribe
with a lubra named Nungaree,
of the Fish Dreaming. The
elders of the tribe were outraged
at the breaking of their totems.
They gave chase and found the
couple asleep along the banks
of the big river. They speared
Wadaman as he slept, but
Nungaree awoke and jumped
into the river and was drowned
and turned into a huge fish. Do
you want to hear the rest of it?”
“You’ve taken up so much of
my time now that another minute
or two won’t hurt.”
Looking out the window I
could see the huge steel boom
swing and dip, catching the
morning sun.
Jim Hamilton leaned against
the door, crossed his legs and
held the papers to his chest.
“I find these things fascinating.
It appears that Nungaree, the
Fish, grieving for her lover,
swam up and down the Big River
looking for his shade, but, as he
was a frill-neck-lizard totem, she
could never find him in the
Dreaming, and she used to swim
close to the shore where blacks'
camps were situated and charm
the young men until they jumped
into the river and were drowned,
one after the other.
“Nungaree was lonely and sad
when the old men at last dis-
covered her, and drove her out
into the sea. They were old and
she couldn’t charm them, so she
swam away and is swimming up
big rivers and little rivers to this
day looking for the spirit ot
Wadaman.”
Jim looked across at me with
a faintly apologetic smile near
his lips.
“Silly, isn’t it?” he asked. “We
find it hard to believe that the
natives could still stick to the old
legends. Where was Jerry born,
by the way? I think I heard him
say one day that his mother was
a full-blood from up Arnhem
Land way.”
I thought of Jerry, sitting out
in the weapon-pit with me while
the desert beyond the Tobruk
perimeter flamed and shook to
the intensity of the panzer-
shelling. There were four of us
in the pit, but the other two were
dead and we were waiting,
pinned down by the fury of the


KUV mom SAFE}
y/zV///
SANDERS
Correspondence. lotolc-m.
statements, etc.. Died In the
"Sander*” can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent*—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Yardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH ..Docket Book do. (Aust.)
information
application
Have you tried
t ALBANY?
The cigarette
CLAIRE BLOOM
would offer you..
Who says cigarettes don’t have personality?
Not Albany smokers! They will tell you that Albany have
a subtle difference which sets them apart. It’s not idle
chance which leads that
well - known personality,
Claire Bloom, to smoke
—and to offer—these
mild and flavor-
fu 1 cigarettes.
AS FULL OF CHARACTER AS THE PEOPLE WHO SMOKE THEM
CORK OR
FILTER
TIPPED
F. L. Smith Ltd., Burlington
Gardens, Old Bond
London, W,l.
German fire, all that was left of
an ambushed patrol.
Jerry had sat there, his back
against the sandbags, a Bren
across his knees, and his dark
face etched in the flashes which
made the desert a cauldron of
hate.
“Times like this make a man
wonder what he enlisted for,” he
had said bitterly. “My country?
Sure, what did it ever do for me,
or my mother for that matter!
It was the old story, a good-
looking young station lubra
working about the place, seduced
by the boss when the missus went
away to hospital to have a baby.
When the missus heard about it
she packed my mother off back
to the tribe. Missionary priests
took me when I was five ; other-
wise I’d still be running around
baked, a light-colored illegitimate
half-way between the two races
and not wanted by either!”
After the Middle East came
New Guinea, where the wide-
eyed natives goggled at Jerry’s
color and pestered him in pidgin
until we roared at them to stop.
It was as if Jerry lived in the
twilight, belonging neither to
night nor day.
“What did you say about
twilight?” Jim Hamilton asked,
jolting me back to the present
“You were miles away.. The
Marion’s in full stride, by the
way.”
“Yes, so I noticed. See you
later, Jim.”
T ATE that afternoon Jerry
came in, gaunt, hollow-
cheeked and unshaven. Usually
he was particular about his
appearance, but I noticed mud
on his clothes, and his trousers
were still wet to the knees. He
dumped a wet cornsack near the
door as he came in.
“Where in the hell have you
been?” I asked him. “Fishing
again, by the look of it?”
Jerry sat in the cane chair and
brushed the palms of his hands
outwards across his face in a
tired gesture.
“Yes, I suppose you’d call it
that,” he agreed. Something was
obviously bothering him.
“Do any good?” I asked the
question as a timesaver more
than from any real interest. Jerry
shook his head.
“Not a thing, I only saw one
fish.”
“Where did you go?”
“Sodwalls Creek,”
“After the big ones, eh?
Listen, Jerry, for hell’s sake
what’s got into you? If you want
a day off to go fishing we can
organise it so you don’t miss a
shift, but here you go tearing
off like a kid wagging it from
school. It’s bad enough you
losing eight or nine quid for a
long shift, but you don’t tell
anyone, and the Marion wasn’t
working for about an hour this
morning, and you don’t have to
be told what that means. Why
this sudden interest in fishing?”
In the late-afternoon sunlight
the Marion was walking, rocking
its prodigious weight backwards
and forwards and slowly, ever so
slowly, lifting its huge steel shoes
and putting them down deliber-
ately one after the other. I was
imagining the tiny figure of the
operator working levers with a
deft sureness to make the giant
walk. Jerry was watching, too,
a strange expression on his tired
face.
“I only saw one fish,” he
repeated dully. “Every time I’ve
gone there I’ve only seen the
one fish.”
“What's in the bag?” I asked
lamely.
Jerry looked dispassionately
towards the doorway.
“A spearfishermen’s outfit and
a spear-gun.”
1 could only gape in astonish-
ment. Jerry rose from the seat
and picked up the wet bag. He
produced a deadly looking
barbed harpoon and a gun,
together with a goggled mask.
“There’s something wrong
with the breathing-tube,” Jerry
said, frowning as he turned the
mask over and over. “I was
using it in that long, deep pool
down at the third railway bridge
when a valve stuck or something
and I nearly drowned. I thought
I was a goner. You’re pretty
good on these things—have a
look at it for us, will you, mate?
I want to use it again as soon as
I can.”
I took the mask and looked at
it, testing the breathing apparatus
and the snorkel-tube, but could
see nothing wrong.
“It looks all right,” I said
doubtfully, risking my reputation
for things mechanical. “But why
wear an outfit like this, Jerry?
Don’t tell me you use it for trout-
fishing?”
Jerry took the mask and held
it between both his hands, his
shoulders sagging.
“No, only for one fish.”
“What’s all this madman’s talk
about one fish? Can’t you say
anything but one fish, one fish,
one fish, it’s enough to get on a
man’s nerves!”
nrHE dragline had stopped
walking, and the giant boom
was swinging in a complete 360-
degree testing-arc. Jerry pinched
his gaunt cheeks between fingers
and thumb.
“There’s a fish in Sodwall’s
Creek so big and when it rises it
sends rings up and down the
length of a 100 yd. pool,” he told
me quietly. “It must be a 12-
pounder if it’s an ounce.”
“Go on,” I scoffed. “There’s
not enough water there for a fish
that size. If you said it was the
Fish River E)am at Oberon I’d
believe you, but not Sodwall’s
Creek. Hell, Jerry, it’s only a
trickle, except for a few big pools
like the one you mentioned.”
“Yes? We all reckoned there
couldn’t be anything bigger than
a six-pounder in the Oberon
Dam until we saw them with our
own eyes didn’t we?” Jerry
asked. “Half the blokes still
don’t believe there’s 12- and 15-
pounders there.”
I thought of the afternoon we
had stood among the trees on
the edge of the prohibited water
and watched the huge trout rising
as the swallows dipped low.
A few days later I had
looked into a chaff-bag and saw
six enormous trout, the smallest
an eight-pounder, and the biggest
more than 13 pounds and
marvelled at the sight.
“They look like Murray cod,”
we had said, lifting the fish one
by one to make sure they were
real.
“I don’t know how it hap-
pened, but there’s a bigger fish in
Sodwall’s Creek,” Jerry assured
me. “I saw it there on Boxing
Day. It was lifting its head out
of the water and taking the
Christmas beetles off the willow-
fronds. You know the place; a
big willow sweeps the water
about half-way down the pool.
“The fish swam along the top
of the water and waves reached
both sides of the pool. It saw
me but didn’t disappear like most
of them do ; it just swam round
and round in a puzzled sort of
way. X had a March Brown on
at the time and dropped the fly
just in front of it, but it brushed
past as if it wasn’t there. After
a coupler minutes it gave a flurry
of its tail and disappeared down
into the pool. It’s the biggest and
tamest fish I’ve ever seen.”
“I suppose it’s possible for a
fish to get out of the Oberon
Dam and swim down along the
Fish River until it met the
junction of Sodwall’s Creek,” I
agreed. “That could explain it.
After seeing those trout Jimmy
Black had in a chaffbag I could
believe anything. It’s a long way
for a fish to swim down from the
dam, but I read somewhere once
where trout and salmon go up
into creeks and rivers to spawn.
It could be the explanation. But
why the spear-gun?”
JERRY gestured tiredly.
“Since I saw the fish it’s
mesmerised me. You know how
it is when you know there’s a big
one in a pool, you can’t get it
out of your mind, and you can
hardly sleep for fear someone
else’ll come along and hook it
while you’re away.
“I tried every one of my 60-
odd flies one day, but all the time
the fish just kept nuzzling at the
weed and looking at me as if it
couldn’t make me out. I tried
worms, I tried grasshoppers,
spinners, Devons ; I went through
the lot and back again without
the fish taking the slightest
notice,
“I got so desperate I did some-
thing I thought I’d never come at.
I dropped a couple of plugs of
gelignite into the pool. I thought
it’d be certain to stun the fish,
but all I got were a few finger-
lings. I went down next day and
the fish was back, as lively as
ever.
“You wouldn’t believe it but I
dynamited that pool three nights
running. I got the drum that
someone knew the explosives
stocks were down and I had to
cut it out. The only thing left
then was this spear-fisherman’s
outfit, so I took a day off and
went to Sydney for it. It cost me
the best part of fifty-quid alto-
gether and now the flamin’
breathing tube’s jammed.”
I looked at the headpiece
again.
“I don’t know much about
these things,” I admitted. “See
Tony down in the blacksmith’s-
shop, what he doesn’t know
about these sort of contrivances
isn’t worth knowing ...”
“I did. He couldn't find any-
thing wrong with it. He said
to see you.”
“What’s wrong with it, any-
way, Jerry?”
“I dunno. I was swimming
with my head under water,
flippers and all on, when I saw
this big fish about nine feet down,
nuzzling at the bottom weed and
looking at me out of the corner
of one eye. It was a queer sensa-
tion, I can tell you, everything
sort of green and dark, but 1
could see the fish as plain as any-
thing. God, it’s a whopper!
“I steadied the spear-gun and
aimed for the thickest part of the
body behind the head; but the
fish didn’t move, just stopped
there, sort of treading water. 1
was about to pull the trigger
when I started to choke, just as
if someone had grabbed me by
the throat and started to squeeze
the breath out of me. Every-
thing went a bit hazy then ; but
when I came to I was lying on
the bank coughing up water and
as weak as a kitten. She was
certainly a narrow squeak.”
The afternoon shift had come
on, and the huge arc-lights were
already floodlighting the cut. I
suddenly felt cold. In the stillness
we could hear the rumbling crash
as the huge steel bucket, which
could accommodate two cars, fell
and lifted its 15-ton loads. We
walked from the office together.
“I told Jim Hamilton I won’t
be at work tomorrow,” Jerry told
me, “I’m going back to get that
fish.”
Again I felt cold. “Don’t be a
thick-headed fool,” I urged him.
“It’s costing you nine-quid a day
for that fish. Ask yourself, is it
worth it?”
Jerry’s jaw was set stubbornly.
“A few quid more or less
doesn’t mean much these days,
but I tell you, I’m gonner get
that fish if it’s the last thing I
do! ”
“Why don’t you wait until
Saturday and I’ll come out with
you? I feel like a day’s fishing.”
“Nothing doing, someone
might beat me to it after all I’ve
gone through. No I'm going
back tomorrow for another
crack. I’m happy now I know
the headpiece is all right.” ,
A FISHERMAN, treading
carefully through the reeds
and grass tussocks which pro-
vided tiger- and copperhead-
snakes with an abundance of
natural cover, noticed a dozen
or so trout-fingerlings floating in
the shallows, further evidence
that someone had been dynamit-
ing the creek.
The fisherman lifted his four-
ounce split-cane rod high above
his head to avoid the willow
tendrils and looked along the
placid surface of the still pool.
This had been one of the best
pools along the creek, and the
fisherman remembered the sultry,
stormy afternoon when he had
seen half a dozen good fish
rising at once along its length.
Still, once it had been dynamited
it would be months before the
fish found their way back. The
crime in dynamiting was not the
number of big fish killed, but the
number of fingerlings that died.
No wonder the fish were becom-
ing scarce along the creek —and
in the river, too, for that matter.
The fisherman stopped and
peered beneath the willow.
Something was floating in the
pool, a shapeless green object
caught tightly among the roots
of the big tree.
Resting his pliant rod against
the wire fence, the fisherman
clambered down the slight slope,
and, gripping the green material,
pulled the drowned man's body
towards the shore.
It was a half-caste wearing
the weird garb of a spear-
fisherman.
Willow tendrils were wound
tightly around the man’s throat,
and there was no movement in
the dark, brooding water.
CAMPAIGN
Instead of buying her a bunch of boronia
and giving her my heart over coffee-shop dregs
of burnt-water coffee,
I will take her to the most elaborate restaurant;
the meal will cost three pounds, just for the two of us:
tonight I will be completely mad,
though not so completely.
The soup and dessiert can take care of themselves, but
the meat must be steak to hold on to our hats
and not tire us completely,
be tender as love and lead to acceptance,
be smothered with mushrooms, if it seems necessary:
tonight I will be completely mad,
though not so completely.
And beer with every course, and laughter,
and bottles to follow to go to the head,
to be empty and happy,
to be proof that the head belongs to the heart, and
perhaps she will kiss, and do as she’s promised me:
tonight I will be completely mad,
though not so completely.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


m
Wk
iflS
H
***.
5/7 /or 20
Light up one of
these superb English
cigarettes of pre-war excellence. Savour the rich,
mellow smoothness of that pure Virginia tobacco
and you will have formed a lasting preference
for Rothman’s De Luxe Virginia! You will know
why, in the most distinguished homes and clubs,
Rothmans De Luxe have for so long been accepted
as England’s luxury cigarette.
'min,
■
SOvt/mmfhL
ENGLANDS
LUXURY
CIGARETTE
VIRGINIA
MADE IN ENGLAND BY THE HOUSE OF ROTHMAN
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, STDNET.
DIRECTORS:
J W DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R J VICARS, A H. DICKINS. G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
SPORTING NOTIONS
The 1953-54 season, which
ended last Saturday, saw one
certainly remarkable achievement
—that of Belmont Park on the
final day at Rosehill. The
Delville Wood (imp.) gelding
competed in successive events
and won both within 35 minutes,
covering 2 miles 3 furlongs in
an aggregate time of four
minutes. Raced by Bill Dawes,
the gelding landed big bets for
followers of the Maurice Mc-
Carten stable. The performance
wasn’t without parallel, but it
was something unusual for
present-day racegoers.
In the talk on Belmont Park’s
wins in successive events,
veteran Randwick trainer Neil
McKenna (he’s still turning out
his share of winners ; So Swank
was a recent one) recalled the
case of a horse losing a walk-
over. It happened, according to
McKenna, about 50 years ago at
Forbes (N.S.W.). The horse,
Algy, was raced by owner-
trainer Ted Clifford, All other
horses were taken from the race,
and Algy, as was then customary,
walked to the starting-barrier,
turned round and cantered to
the winning-post. On weighing-
in it was found that he was 31b.
under correct weight, and he was
promptly disqualified, losing the
£l5 stakemoney!
• •
The season \fas a good one
for jockey Doug Weir, whose
achievements in the Newcastle
and N.S.W. provincial areas
must be close to a record. With
Sydney successes he rode 108
winners during the 12 months.
• • • •
New record times made in the
season just closed were Bird-
wood’s Imin. 4sec. for sjr
furlongs at Caulfield in February,
and Gallant Archer’s 2min.
15i-sec. for 10 furlongs at Ascot.
Brisbane, in June. Blue Ocean
in February at Randwick
equalled the mile and a half
record, 2min. 27fsec., which
Palfresco made in the 1935
Caulfield Cup.
• » • •
N. Sellwood won the Sydney
riding honors, with 11 \ firsts, 66
seconds and 53 thirds; well
in front of Bill Cook (43 wins),
G. Moore (38), A. Ward
and W. Camer (29). That it
doesn’t pay to be a thick-and-
thin supporter of any jockey is
indicated by the fact that not one
of the five leading horsemen
named would have shown
backers on those lines a profit
over the year’s riding.
In Melbourne Bill Williamson
rode a record 67| firsts, with R,
Hutchinson second (50) and J.
Purtell third (46£).
• • • •
T. J. Smith was leading Sydney
trainer for the 1953-54 season
with 47 wins. F. W. Hoysted
led Melbourne mentors with 34
wins.
Stayers returning from a spell
occasionally create a surprise at
first or second run in sprint con-
tests, and this happened at Rose-
hill when Advocate (at 33 to 1,
after twice that price had been
bet in odd places) easily won the
seven-furlongs Flying Handicap
from Impress and Silvero.
Favorite French Echo beat only
a couple home. Advocate won
the 1952 Victoria Derby and was
runner-up to Carioca in last
year’s Sydney Cup. He is en-
gaged in the A.J.C. Epsom with
8.8 and in the Metropolitan with
8.10. In both the Caulfield and
the Melbourne Cups he has 8.11.
His spring mission has yet to be
determined, but it isn’t likely to
include the Epsom.
Winter winning-form of two-
year-olds has generally worked
out soundly in the following
season. Years ago Phar Lap
opened his winning-account in a
winter event and the stable
which shelters Rosehill winner
Prince Delville hopes the colt, too,
will prove a stayer in this new
season. The colt is a striking, if
slightly small, dark-brown son of
Delville Wood (imp.) and Eternal
City (imp.) and has done little
racing. He is trained at Rand-
wick by Stan Lamond for Mr.
and Mrs. W. J. Bradshaw and
cost them 2200gns, as a yearling.
A brother to Redeswood, win-
ner of A.J.C. Flight Stakes and
Easter Handicap, and to Fort
Wmiam, Prince Delville belongs
to the family which produced
Swynford and , Chaucer. His
dam was got by Epigram from
Fair City by Fairway, and she
traces back to Cicero.
Country racing folk —mostly
from central and far-west
N.S.W. —came to Sydney last
week to see the former country
galloper Fire Dust in his first
city appearance, the Rosehill
First Parramatta Stakes. Fire
Dust had won at Coonamble
and at Bourke in June, and last
month was successful at New-
castle in such impressive style
that admirers put him down as
a near-certainty for last Satur-
day’s sprint. He might have been
a good thing, too, but for inex-
perience of the electric starting-
gates, which also were foreign to
his country jockey, G. Baird,
who had won on the Precept
gelding at his four prior starts.
When the gates flew open Fire
Dust was all at sea and lost con-
siderable ground. He then flew
to the leaders, and was beaten
only by inches for third money.
The bookmakers’ supposed in-
fallible system of picking the
winner in a photo-finish—aided,
of course, by a supposed expert,
since they don’t leave their bet-
ting stands—appears to have
been dented a few times at re-
cent Sydney meetings. At Rose-
hill they offered as much as 10
to 1 about Culzean getting the
verdict over Sunny Hour in the
Second Parramatta Stakes, A
few punters who had taken 9
to 4 about Sunny Hour in bet-
ting before he firmed to 7 to 4
accepted the 10’s and made a
tidy profit. The Rosehill angle
from the stands is deceptive, and
punters have found any num-
ber of surprises when the photo
had been printed.
New Zealand-bred two-year-
old gelding Debited, winner of
the Second Coo-ee Handicap at
Moonee Valley on Saturday, had
started in Melbourne only once
before winning his first race. He
is by Count Rendered (imp.)
from Baltimore by Balloch (imp.)
from Menteith by Hunting Song
(imp.). Related to Palfrey, a
winner of the New Zealand St.
Leger, Debited had both as dam
and granddam unraced mares
A winner in the family was
Scratchmere, who came to Aus-
tralia a few seasons ago and won
races at Rosehill and on other
tracks.
Tradfield, 2-to-l favorite and
winner of the Valley’s First
Coo-ee Handicap, is a son of
Traddles and Glamoranna by
Regular Bachelor. Tradfield has
now won twice from his last
three starts and easily ran out
the mile course at the Valley.
On the eve of his ninth birth-
day, Don Sion, who knows his
way round Melbourne race-
tracks, especially over the
steeplechase courses, won the
A. V. Hiskins Steeplechase over
two miles 3 \ furlongs by six
lengths at the Valley. Trainer
Jack Sing turned the veteran
out in grand style.
In England the Queen races
many horses, and her crack per-
former, Aureole, according to
English experts, stands alone as
Europe’s best racehorse. Aureole,
in winning the richest prize of
the British racing year (the
£23,300 King George VI and
Queen Elizabeth Stakes) after a
tardy start, carried 9,4 and
started favorite at 9 to 2.
France’s best stayer, Vamos, was
second, and Darius third.
• • « •
It is expected that one of the
Queen’s horses, Landau, will be
in the field for the £25,000 Inter-
national race at Laurel Park,
Maryland (U.S.A.), on Novem-
ber 2. It won’t surprise if Aus-
tralian-owned horses are also in
the line-up. If Landau competes
he will be the first racehorse to
carry the Royal colors (purple
jacket, gold facings, red sleeves,
purple cap) in the United States.
Horses whose sires came from
Australia have won several races
in America in recent seasons
and continue to hit the headlines.
As a result of V.F.L. play on
Saturday Richmond goes out of
“the four” and Melbourne gels
in, though they’re only separated
by the matter of a decimal-point
or so in the percentages. The
Tigers succumbed to Carlton
(9.11-6.9), while the Demons
ran rings around Hawthorn
(16.14-5.3). Notching exactly
the same tally as the Demons,
“Well, so long. It's been real nice meetin' you."
Geelong stopped Essendon’s run
(16.14-11.10). The two leaders,
Collingwood and Footscray,
both won; ’Wood’s victim in a
wild game was St. Kilda
(12.13-7.15), ’Scray’s South Mel-
bourne (11.12-6.5). In the other
game North, after three succes-
sive defeats, beat Fitzroy, not
yet quite recovered from its
toppling of Collingwood the
previous week, by a baker’s-
dozen of behinds (8.19-8.6).
“Zorok”: South Fremantle,
last year’s Perth premiers,
recently journeyed east. As a
curtain-raiser to the Vic.-S.A.
affair at Adelaide, South was too
good for a second S.A. eighteen
(8.13-8.6). Then, going further
east still, it beat Collingwood
12.10 - 7.20. ’Wood had
announced its determination to
win the game to uphold its boast
of being the best club-team in
Australia ; but it turned-out well
below full strength. South full-
forward is Bernie Naylor, who
last year set new Perth figures of
167 goals for a season, to beat
the 152 kicked by George Doig
(East Fremantle) in 1934. East,
incidentally, while South was
playing in Adelaide, defeated
Subiaco 9.13-1.5 —the Maroons’
tally being, I believe, the lowest
ever in a W.A. league game.
• * *
In Rugby Union club games
in Sydney, Eastwood beat
Gordon, 20-3, Manly beat Easts,
21-13, University beat Parra-
matta, 38-9, Drummoyne and
Randwick finished even, 8-all,
and St. George beat Norths,
14-3.
The N.S.W. country R.U, team
touring New Zealand beat
Hawkes Bay, 9-0. A game in
cold, driving rain, the N.S.W.
backs handling well despite the
unfavorable conditions.
♦ * *
Athletes from all parts of the
British Commonwealth having
forgathered at Vancouver, the
1954 Empire Games are now
well ,into their stride. The last
Games were held in N.Z. in
1950; Sydney was the venue
before that (1938), Marjorie
Jackson chalked-up Australia’s
first 1954 athletics success in
winning the 100yds. in 10.7 sec.
Of the selected English
cricketers, eight have been here
before—four (Hutton, Compton,
Bedser and Evans) three times,
the other four (Bailey, Edrich,
Simpson and Statham) twice.
This is Statham’s first full trip—
in 1950 he was flown out, with
Tattersall, as a reinforcement
after Bailey and Wright had been
hurt in the third Test. Edrich’s
previous trip was eight years ago,
with Hammond’s 1946-47 side.
England’s attack is again, as
in the days of Larwood, Allen
and Fames, based on speed.
There are three fast-bowlers and
three fast-mediums; it’s maybe
a bit shy of spinners. The left-
hand spinner, Wardle, played m
the first three Tests against Aus-
tralia last year, but the English
selectors clearly indicated he was
only in the side till injured Tony
Lock was fit. Now Wardle, a
born humorist who should be
popular here, has been selected
instead of Lock.
Neither Lock nor Wardle was
particularly successful in the
West Indies earlier this year.
Lock, however, put on a few
“acts” in the Indies, as did also-
omitted speedster Trueman, who
just escaped being sent home
from there. Trueman would
have been a “draw” here; but
rightly the selectors want cricket
on the field, as, in a recent
notable instance, did the Aus-
tralian selectors.
Two of the fast-bowlers,
Loader and Tyson, as well as
second ’keeper Andrew, are only
in their first year of regular
county-cricket. Actually Loader,
who went to India with Ben
Barnett’s Commonwealth side
last year, is not yet a regular
member of Surrey, Bedser keep-
ing him out. Loader made a
name last year, while Bedser was
playing in the Tests, by several
really good efforts (such as 8-21
against Worcester; 34 wickets
for 262, av. 7.7, in eight succes-
sive playing-days). Incidentally,
the three fast-bowlers coming are
all, for speedsters, rather sparely
built.
Three of the four bowlers
largely responsible for England’s
winning of the fifth (“Ashes”)
Test last year (Trueman, Lock
and Laker) are not coming. Two
batsmen who’ve missed-out are
the dour Yorkshireman Willie
Watson, who made the fighting
second-innings 109 which helped
to save England in the second
Test in 1953, and the 1950-51
visitor David Sheppard, who was
earlier tipped as a likely captain
of the side.


Contrasts with Australia
This England, 1954
By WARREN DENNING
(In London )
“TT O an untutored Australian
S eye the most striking first
V. j impression of this Eng-
land is of its “packed-in-
ness.” Growing up on maps
which showed all Europe super-
imposed on Australia and still
leaving large pieces uncovered,
with the British Isles as but a
fraction of the European whole,
one did get a mental sense of
smallness against vastness ; but
this mental sense leaves one quite
unprepared for the visual reality.
In one corner of England,
Clifton Hampden, in north-west
Berkshire, just where the Thames
runs into Oxford, a circle drawn
around 12 miles was more than
enough to comprehend 2000
years of history:
Oxford, crowded but old and
mellow and still quite beautiful,
seven miles away, with its foun-
dations lost in misty antiquity
and its known university begin-
nings reaching back at least into
the 12th century; Wallingford,
where Saxons fought Romans
against the rising tide of the
Roman Empire ; Reading, almost
as old as English time, where
Oscar Wilde wrote “The Ballad
of Reading Gaol” in a place
that’s now wholly inside the heart
of Reading, looking more like
an old stone monastery than a
short-term prison and with Read-
ing’s busy street-life flowing
around its walls ; Reading, with
its old past buried in Saxon-
Roman times, its sieges of the
Parliamentary wars, its naming-
place for Rufus Isaacs; Wantage,
on the eastern fringes of the
grand old Wessex country, where
the great leader Alfred fought
and halted and humbled the
invading Danes, whose vessels
sailed up this now-so-quiet
Thames; Wantage, where the
cake-burning legend grew, and
where Alfred is commemorated
in a statue ; all around, the lovely
green fields, farmlands, villages
of Wessex where Alfred seems
even yet a living memory
(England never quite ever gives
away her past); Dorchester, a
tiny backwater lifting itself out
of the Thames where once the
whole fullness of Royal English
life flowered ; Abingdon, now a
slightly drab but active little
market-town, where 800 years
ago one of England’s great
abbeys towered above the
buttercup-fields.
Then, as a striking footnote to
the puissant modern age, Harwell
Atomic Research Station, lost in
the folds of these quiet Berkshire
fields and groves and gently
rising wooded slopes, breathing
its peaceful aspirations and its
readiness for war above its ugly
lines of factories and chimneys,
its severe utility-cottages, its
endless roads and its barbed-wire
fences and its air of remote-
control purposefulness.
And so much more, in twelve
miles . . .
Looking even briefly at this
English countryside one under-
stands at once how it is that so
much writing, so much good and
great writing, has come out of
it, without apprehending why in
exact terms, but sensing that it is
a place from where the creation
of a beauty of the mind would
flow as of nature. On the old
red-brick bridge at Clifton
Hampden beside the a.d. 1350
Barley Mow Hotel, for instance,
with the Thames drifting gently
through its reed-beds towards
London and the huge white
swans sinking their heads down
for food, the challenge to write
seems irresistible.
But it is not only the challenge
of a compelling natural beauty
but of the timeless sense of con-
tinuing life and vital living Which
pervades everything; it is men’s
spirits rising from the past and
moving into the future that fills a
haunted scene as no Australian
landscape can do.
And then, too, the whole
weight of English life, though
caught in this rural web, seems
thrown inwards, to the home, the
fireside, the study ; in summer
the fields are so green, the trees
so wrapt in color, the flowers
full of some extra-flowing vivid-
ness, yet the real core of English
life is in the house, and the
houses immemorially have been
built for it that way ; a long,
rigorous, often heart-breaking
winter climate takes away so
much of what would be the
average Australian interest in the
outdoors, and this “inside” life
has tutored English people down
the ages to find self-awareness
through the creative mind.
The summer! How ardently
and often how disappointedly
these people wait for, long for,
hope for the sun —that sun from
which in its more savage moods
we run, in Australia; here for
the brief summer they catch and
hoard every hour of precious
sunshine, talk about it, agree that
a long hot summer-day is of
itself something quite odd and
striking! And every sunless
summer day is something
irrecoverably lost, for this all-
too-brief warm-time passes
relentlessly on, and the clammy
fogs, the smogs and' the chills
grip the English chest . . .
• ♦ •
By a kind of common implied
consent, the “ordinary people”
of England have agreed not to
talk or think about war ; they
try to exclude it from their vision
of life —not that they’d refuse
to face it if it came, with the
gallantry of an ancient and long-
surviving race, but that they just
don’t want to take it into account
any more, but to enjoy their lives
while destiny permits them to do
so. Two world wars have
exhausted their emotional
capacity to think about war;
these people have had too much
torn out of their being* for war
now to be anything but a horror
and a wickedness. Though in the
last hours the people of England
would march where they’ve
marched before, what men say in
rural inns and London taverns
when you ask “What do you
think of the prospects of war?”
is “We don’t think."
Oddly enough, it’s the first
world war which still largely
pervades their minds when they
do speak of war. The pain,
terror, excitement, loss, of the
second are remembered vividly
enough, but one senses that deep
in the English heart the first
German war still remains the
great English tragedy, the
desolating loss of a whole genera-
tion of men “who would be our
leaders today.” The shadow of
1939-45 is still heavy and dark,
but 1914-18 looms behind* it as
the climactic sorrow that
wrenched something infinitely
precious out of England ; a war
memorial in the eight-house
village of Little Wittenham in
Berkshire —a memorial to one
Little Wittenham man of 1914-
18, the only man Little Witten-
ham could give—sums it up:
“To the memory of Charles
Green and all other men who
gave their lives.”
It is of bombs and bomb-
damage that one thinks of
instinctively on first reaching
London. In the war-years they
said “London can take it,” and
in 1954 one echoes “London has
taken it” —taken and absorbed
it, and risen up strong again.
The clear impression is not of a
damaged city, but of a mighty
living metropolis, seemingly so
little touched, rising pulsatingly
above its torment.
But 10 to 14 years have passed
since the terror, and London has
gone about its rebuilding with
gusto and driving-force. Pile
upon pile of new, neat, modern
flats —huge blocks like the
Greenway Flats in North Sydney,
but hundreds of them—are
spread across London ; they give
no clue except their own exist-
ence to the fact that they were
born in blood, shock, blast and
destruction, for every such new
block has replaced some part of
old London which disappeared
for ever under the Luftwaffe. As
witness one mute little tablet on
the wall of a block of brisk,
leafy-gardened flats out beyond
Chelsea: “In Memory of the
Fifty-nine Persons who Lost
Their Lives, 1942.” Just that;
no names; 59 were but the reap-
ings of a minute in the harvest
which garnered nearly 70,000
London lives; and there’s no
need to say how —London
knows, too well.
Elsewhere, on street frontages
of great value, “temporary”
shops, small but full of life, have
been built around craters and
devastated centres ; business is as
usual despite the fire-charred
walls at the back. Other areas
have been converted into car-
parks, of which London is
desperately short; ugly utilities,
but again hiding their origins in
flame and death.
It is as one moves in more
detail around London, or as the
informed and remembering eye
of the Londoner recalls, that
one sees still the blackened walls,
the gaping, weed-filled holes, the
smashed brickwork and tottering
masonry, of the places that even
the ardent rebuilders have not yet
reached.
This is especially true on the
south side of the river, where
the Luftwaffe made its all-out
strikes at the docks, and again
just north of the Thames around
St. Paul’s, which now stands in
splendid isolation towering above
the ruins around it; the
Cathedral survived a saturation-
bombing of the area near by;
and withal, apart from the old
awareness of wasted life, one
senses an underlying London
satisfaction with a newly found
St. Paul’s, released from the
crowding fetters of the old build-
ings that hemmed it in ; it is not
the ruins but the great Cathedral
rising in all its unobstructed
perspectives above them that the
Londoner now points out . . .
* * *
Traffic has a stranglehold on
the throat of modern London.
Sydney traffic and London traffic
are about of a par, equally
dreadful, and both apparently
representing an unsolvable
problem. Except that London
taxis do offer one extra hazard;
they dart along either side of the
car in front to pass it, so that
you never really know where the
traffic is going!
Cars, buses, lorries pile up in
the heart of London around
Piccadilly, Regent - street,
Trafalgar Square every few
minutes, in tangles that demand
the utmost from the London
police to resolve ; it’s nothing to
see ninepence or one-shilling tick
past on a taxi-meter while the
amount of forward progress is
just nil. A run of two or three
miles across the busy districts
may take anything up to one
hour ; there is no known way of
keeping appointments unless one
begins walking at dawn and
camping en route.
It may be some consolation to
the planners who have failed to
replan Sydney’s traffic that
London, too, is scratching its
head in baffled consternation as
it surveys its wheel-locked
streets ...
* ♦ •
One thing an Australian
arriving in London is not really
prepared for is the transition
from the Sydney pub to the
London inn. Despite what may
have been heard of the tavern-
life of London and England the
contrast is too sharp, the social
values too wide apart, the
changes from the raucous Sydney
five-o’clocker to the slow,
leisurely ease of London too
striking for quick realisation.
But the atmosphere of the
English inn grows quickly upon
the newcomer, and becomes for
ever part of his life ; whatever
else of Australia he may prefer
to England, he will never again
accept the Australian way of
hotel-life.
I have not yet come across in
London any inn too full of
people for comfortable service.
I have not yet come upon one
drunken argument. I have not
yet encountered one really intoxi-
cated person ; they must exist,
for grog is grog, but they are
extraordinarily unapparent if
they do. X have not yet been in
one London bar into which 1
would hesitate to take any
woman; it is the normal, rather
than the abnormal, thing to find
women drinking alongside their
men friends, or two or three
women having a drink together.
I’m told that a nice woman would
hesitate to go into a bar by
herself ; that is a convention I
have yet to analyse, but I’ve seen
nothing to suggest that the
women who may do so are neces-
sarily of the streets.
Almost every tavern in London
is a place of food as well as of
drink. The rare and begrudged
counter-lunches of transient fame
in Australia do not exist. I have
seen no place where food is given
away in the hope of attracting
sales of grog. The food on
supply is deliberately meant as ‘
a means of providing meals, is
handled and served that way.
Some hotels have room only for
what they term a snack-bar, but
it is easy to .spend seven or eight
shillings on a “snack” of salmon,
turkey, salads, lobster, crab or
the like ; food is not cheap in
London, and the taverns don’t
try to make it cheaply available.
Other places with rather more
space have tables as well as
snack-bars. These tables are set
for the full requirements of a
meal, along the wall furthest
from the bar, with full-time
waitresses to attend them. It’s
not difficult in the West End,
for instance, to get a quite-
satisfying three-course meal for ■
3s. 6d, or 45., plus whatever
tipple one wishes to go with it.
The food is good, ample, well-
cooked, properly served; any-
body who wishes a reasonably
quick and solid meal without
worrying about the restaurants-
proper can make for one of
these taverns in full confidence
of decent attention. The impact
on an Australian fresh from
King’s Cross at 5 p.m. is quite
startling.
I’m told there are some 80,000
licensed premises in England;
this almost certainly makes for a
sanity and sense of public interest
in the conduct of the hotels. The
average London publican—l’m
overlooking the big “name”
hotels —is not an important
person politically or socially ; he
is a manager, for the most part,
for one or another of the big
breweries, which own vast chains
of hotels through England. His
immediate business is the local
retailing of his wares ; he is not
a stoolpigeon for other interests,
or a man working overtime down
all the political alley-ways for the
maintenance of the liquor status
quo. In any Australian suburb
there may be two, three or four
hotels; in London, there might
be a dozen or more in a radius
of a quarter-mile. This diffusion
helps the publican to mind his
own business and concentrate on
his customers.
The hotels are clean, orderly,
well-conducted. Their orderli-
ness is not merely a question of
police supervision; this, of
course, is there, but it is quite
unobtrusive; I have not yet
seen a policeman near any one
of them. The fact is that the
London tavern, the English inn
everywhere, lives to a social
ethic quite different from that
prevailing in Australia. It is not
a place in which to get drunk ;
it does not offer the tacit facilities
for getting drunk as rapidly as
one can ; it does not assume that
Black Maria is waiting outside
for those who have too whole-
heartedly accepted the tacit
invitation.
It is a place for having a drink,
for meeting friends, for having a
meal, for whiling away some
spare time, for the club-like
contacts with other people upon
which, in other directions, the
English climate imposes such
severe limitations.
Late in the evening you may
be 20ft. away from an English
tavern and wholly unaware that
it is open, except for the fact that
the windows are lighted ; inside,
though, there will be 20 or 30
people talking, sipping, playing
cards, darts; draughts, all in
peace and harmony; at
10.30 p.m. they slip away quietly
into the darkness, without police
supervision, or struggles by
barmen to clear the premises.
The hours of opening are much
more rational than in Sydney or
Melbourne. In the main, 11 a.m.
is the opening time ; they close
at 2 p.m. or 2.30 p.m., varying
slightly in different areas. They
reopen at 5 p.m. or 5.30 p.m.,
and remain open until 10.30 p.m.
or 11 p.m. Thus they admirably
provide for their main function
in the middle of the day—the
“beer and board” upon which so
many Londoners depend for
their midday break from work.
By remaining closed through
the afternoon they give their
staffs a rest, but more import-
antly they cut right across that
afternoon-drinking which in
Australia is the dangerous,
trouble-making, neurotic drink-
ing, when jobs are left undone
and car-accident potentials are
steadily built-up. The reopening
at 5.30 p.m. means there is a
drink available on the way home
from work, at a place where it
can be had quickly, instead of the
desperate struggle so common
in Sydney bars ; and of course it
makes possible that curiously
subdued, but intense and nation-
wide, night-life in the taverns
which is so wholly part of the
English spirit.
The pattern is the same in the
provinces; at the Barley Mow
Hotel in Berkshire one finds a
whole cross-section of England
at evening relaxation. The “bar”
at the Barley Mow is about 3ft.
long, just enough for one person
to buy drinks; the saloon
lounge is in a black-raftered
room dating back to 1350, full of
shining brass and the evidence
of centuries of such relaxation
amidst the wars and famines and
troubles of each successive age.
The “taproom” has its darts-
board, its deep fireplaces, its
wooden seats around the walls,
its table or two for the card-
players. The men work on the
farms up to 10 o’clock in the
summer evenings, drop in for
their pint on the way home; in
the darker evenings it’s the place
where people come —husbands,
wives, grown-up sons and
daughters—for their glass and
their yarn, the exchange of the
gossip of the neighborhood, the
learned discussions on the
(Continued on next page )


Established isuti in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO. f LTD.
(England)
NJ3.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
the politician,” when Churchill
was Member for Dundee. And
when Churchill was defeated in
1945, he said, “Some people tell
me it is a blessing in disguise —
all I can say is that it is a very
good disguise.”
Churchill, says Mr. Brooks,
likes to anglicise foreign names.
He said to Lord Mottistone, who
had chaffed him about this
habit: —•
“Jack, when yo,u cross Europe
you land at Marsai, spend a night
in Lee-on and another in Paree,
and, crossing by Callay, eventu-
ally reach Londres. I land at
Marsales, spend a night in Lions,
and another in Paris, and come
home to London.”
In this chapter on “How
Churchill Influences and Per-
suades,” the Rt. Hon. Leslie
Hore-Belisha recalls Dame Mar-
garet Lloyd George “telling me
how Churchill had bought a
farm. He was quite new, then,
to farming. ‘He insisted,’ Dame
Margaret said, ‘that he was going
to make it pay whatever it
costs.’ ” Maybe this might more
properly have been told in a sur-
vey of Churchill at the Treasury,
which has been tactfully omitted
from this except for a page or so
by Guy Eden:
He was apt to be somewhat
over-large with figures , . .
Sir Alan Herbert makes rather
heavy weather of pointing out
that “Churchill’s Humor” should
have been seen to be believed;
but he gives some pleasant illus-
trations ; and maybe the best is of
a piece of light and sustained
tomfoolery in the House, when
Churchill as Prime Minister
announced in 1943 that the
church-bells would no longer be
reserved for use as a warning in
case of invasion:
Sir Thomas Moore: “Will my
right hon. Friend say what alter-
native arrangements have been
made?”
The Prime Minister: “Replace-
ment does not arise. For myself,
I cannot help thinking that any-
thing like a serious invasion
would be bound to leak out.”
Mr. Austin Hopkinson: “How
can the news possibly leak out,
when it is an offence to spread
alarm and despondency?”
The Prime Minister: “Factual
statements of that kind, especially
if well-intentioned, would not fall
into that category.”
Mrs. Roosevelt surveys him as
a Guest; and in his “Churchill
and France” the former French
Prime Minister Paul Reynaud
shows how close, during the war,
they came to a Franco-British
Union, and a Franco-British War
Cabinet. Sir Compton Mac-
kenzie patiently details the story
of Churchill’s one novel, the
“Ruritanian romance” Savrola;
Viscount Simon considers him as
a Liberal; and Earl Winterton as
a Parliamentarian. A. L. Rowse,
one of whose tapestry-like peror-
ations on Oxford has previously
been draped down one of these
columns, finds as fitting a con-
clusion to his summing-up,
“Churchill’s Place in History,”
and to this book;
Winston Churchill sums up the
whole first half of our century as
no other statesman does. Coming
into public notice before The end
of the nineteenth century, he
already took an important part—
which might well have been more
so —in the first World War. All
the figures of that epoch have
passed away; the Kaiser is gone,
Lloyd George is gone; President
Wilson and Lenin have long
vanished from the scene. Now alt
the leading figures of the second
World War are dead: Hitler and
Mussolini, President Roosevelt
and Stalin. Only Winston
Churchill remains, incarnating
how much of modern history in
himself, a fabulous figure on the
small stage of the modern world.
portents of the seasons. They
were doing it while I was there
in May, and they were doing it
while the Plantagenets were on
the throne of England. Every
village has its inns; the pattern
differs in specific detail, but
overall is common to all England
and bound up with its destiny.
The price of grog, of course, is
a severe deterrent to drunks. The
average wage in England is
pounds below the Australian
basic wage, but the cost-of-living
seems no cheaper; it is a
common saying here that almost
everybody, save the very well
off, is struggling to keep above
water. Possibly the strongest
teetotal influence in England is
the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
Mr. Butler, whose plain and
fancy taxes hover most formid-
ably above the glass and the
tankard.
English draught beer, anyway,
is much weaker in alcoholic
content than Australian beer, and
at about Is. a pint represents no
comparison in potency against
the Sydney “schooner.” Bottled
beers are much heavier, but, at
Is, 4d. to Is, 6d. for the
equivalent of a “middy” glass,
represent a rate of luxury-
drinking which rudely stays the
willing hand. Whisky, gin, rum,
run from 2s. a nip upwards. All
of course loaded with taxes; the
English people through their
grog contribute far more
copiously to the Treasury than
we do in Australia, despite our
groans.
Finally, while it’s true that the
grog-trade everywhere, under all
conditions, contains social
problems and pressures, it is
impossible to spend more than a
few days in London without
realising that the taverns here
represent a far saner attitude to
life ; no Australian who has seen
them can keep any respect for
the Australian way of doing it.
Whether this English atmosphere
is transplantable to Sydney or
Melbourne is, of course, another
thing ; certainly it seems to have
grown up out of England’s past,
based on social conventions
wrought out of a centuries-old
search for a warm and accom-
modating method.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Hits I Skits! and
Jingles! by W. T. Goodge; also other
books illustrated by Norman Lindsay.
—5866.
Copies of “National Geographic
Magazine” featuring “The Greek
Way” (March, 1944), and “Archae-
ology the Mirror of the Ages” by Sir
Leonard Woolley (August, 1928). —
5867.
Information Sought
Any information concerning fish
known as threadfins?
Threadfins are tropical fish of the
family Polynemidce, with slender fila-
ments beneath the pectoral fins which
can be moved freely in all directions
and may be quite short or longer than
the body of the fish itself. They are
tactile organs and enable the fish to
find its food in intensely muddy
estuarine waters. A species common
in Queensland, Polynemus tetradacty-
lus, is known in the northern towns
as salmon or Cooktown salmon,
though it bears no resejnblance to and
has no affinity with the true salmon
of the Northern Hemisphere. It
occurs in shoals, and meets with a
ready sale in the northern markets.
Threadfins rarely extend southward
to the N.S.W. coast, but are plentiful
along the northern seaboard. Some
species attain a length of 6ft.
* * * *
How to mix a durable whitewash for
outdoor use?
Obtain large pieces of fresh lump
lime, place them in a very large
bucket or other suitable container,
and into this pour hot water. The
lime will start to boil and break up.
Keep it covered all the time with about
half an inch of water. Before the
lime commences to boil fiercely, add
tallow or common fat in the propor-
tion of about lib. to 141 b. of lump
lime. If desired, a little yellow ochre
may also be added, which will give a
cream or buff tint, according to the
quantity used. When the lime is
thoroughly slaked it should be stirred
and sufficient water added to make it
a little heavier than milk, after which
it should be strained. If desired, this
wash may be applied whilst hot.
* * * *
A few details of the works of
Rossini, the Italian composer?
Gioacchino Antonio Rossini was
one of the most talented of Italian
composers of the nineteenth century,
and devoted himself mainly to opera.
His first opera, “Tancredi,” was pro-
duced at Venice when he was 21. It
was followed after a short interval by
“II Barbiere di Seviglia,” “La Coneren-
tola,” “Otello,” “Mose in Egitto”—
this latter an oratorio—“La Donna
del Lago,” “Semiramide” and
“Guillaume Tell.” All these appeared
between 1816 and 1820. He also wrote
a “Stabat Mater” in 1842, and a
“Petite Messe Solennelle” in 1864.
Rossini’s music shows vigor, vitality
and true Italian sensuousness; the
finest of it has spontaneity and charm,
and his handling of voices and orches-
tra alike and instinct for glittering
effects atone for his occasional musical
vulgarity.
* * * v .*
Some details concerning the native
tamarind ?
Native tamarind is the popular
name for Diploglottis cunninghami,
the only species of a genus of the
family Sapindacece, which is endemic
in Australia. It is a tall, slender bush
tree, ranging from southern Illawarra
(N-S.W.) into Queensland. The leaves
have 10 to 12 leaflets up to Ift. long,
covered with a velvety coat of rust-
colored hairs ; fruit is a globular
fleshy capsule, the seeds embedded in
an amber-colored pulp (arillus) which
has a pleasant, somewhat acid flavor
and may be made into a palatable jelly.
The wood is white and close-grained.
* * * *
Some hints for preparing poultry
birds for show exhibition ?
If there is any tendency to scurf or
scale on the shanks get them clear by
scrubbing gently with soapsuds and an
old toothbrush three times a week
and anointing with sulphur and
neatsfoot oil or vaseline after wiping
dry. Give the bird powdered charcoal
in its food to clear the system and
impart tone, and a fair amount of
linseed twice a week with its mash.
This will give gloss to the plumage.
Let the dietary be varied and the
exercise ample, making the bird
scratch for its food. A little cooked
meat daily, fed out of the hand, will
help to give condition and also render
the bird tame. Cleanse the wattles,
combs and face with a soft damp cloth,
and when dry rub vinegar over them
with a small sponge to give extra
brightness. Wash the bird all over
very carefully the day before sending
to the show.
♦ * * *
Particulars of ( 1 ) the first and (2)
the second Tunney v. Dempsey world’s
heavyweight championship fights? (3)
Particulars of Dempsey v. Firpo fight,
and ( 4 ) was Joe Louis a real world’s
heavyweight champion, and a credit to
the game ?
(1) The first Tunney v. Dempsey
world’s heavyweight championship
fight took place in Philadelphia on
September 23, 1926, when Tunney
won their 10-rounds contest on points.
(2) Second championship, also over
10 rounds, was in Chicago on Sep-
tember 22, 1927. Dempsey might
have won this contest had he retired
to his own, or a neutral, comer after
knocking Tunney down in an early
round. Referee Dave Barry refused to
count over Tunney as Dempsey did
not return to a corner, and Tunney
was said to be down at least 15
seconds. The count was resumed
when Dempsey was back in a corner,
and Tunney eventually arose before 10
seconds were counted over him, after
which he went on to win another
points decision. (3) The Dempsey v.
Firpo fight took place in New York
in 1923. Round one had barely begun
before Dempsey floored Firpo. As
there was an immense crowd present,
referee Johnny Gallagher did not want
things to end so early, and he gave
the Argentinian a very generous
•count. When Firpo roughed Dempsey
out of the ring a little later, he did
not knock him out; people sitting in
the press row were allowed to assist
Dempsey back into action. Dempsey,
however, lost little time flooring Firpo
for ■ the full count in round two.
(4) Louis was a great credit to boxing,
and he successfully defended his world
heavyweight championship no fewer
than 25 times.
* * * *
History of the Sydney Zoo before
it was moved to Taronga Park, Mos-
man ?
In March, 1879, the Zoological
Society of N.S.W. was formed, with
Walter Bradley as president, for the
acclimatisation of songbirds and use-
ful game. A sum of £5OO was col-
lected, the Government giving pound-
for-pound subsidy, and pheasants,
California quail, and several species of
songbirds were imported and liberated.
In 1880 the society was reorganised as
the Zoological and Acclimatisation
Society, and a depot was established
at Moore Park, laid out as zoological
gardens, and opened in 1884. The
area of the gardens was gradually
extended to 11 acres as the - collection
of animals and birds increased. In
1916 the collection was removed to
Taronga Park, a site of about 58
acres.
♦ * ♦ *
(I) When, where and by whom were
the first motion-pictures displayed in
Sydney ? (2) What was the first
Sydney theatre devoted entirely to
motion-pictures, and when did it
open ? '
(1) By Car] Hertz, the conjuror, at
the old Tivoli on September 19, f 896.
The subjects included a view of the
traffic crossing Westminster Bridge,
London, a burlesque of “Trilby” and
a round of a boxing match. (2) The
Salon Lumiere, in Pitt-street, almost
opposite the Lyceum Theatre. There
were 12 pictures to a programme and
eight sessions daily. It opened a few
days after Hertz’s arrival at the Tivoli.
Brief Answers
L.G.G.: The information you re-
quire re the detailed history of troy-
weight and avoirdupois will probably
be found in Romance in Arithmetic,
by Bowman, or Your Arithmetic Bock
—Stories about its Names and Sym-
bols, by Turner J.A.: (1) No
mathematical formula will directly give
the results desired. (2) Numbers in
series may be calculated by using the
standard methods of permutations to be
found in ordinary algebra textbooks.
The total number between AAAOOI
and ZZZ999 inclusive (a purely hypo-
thetical series, of course) can be calcu-
lated by cubing 26, multiplying the
result (17,576) by 1000, and subtract-
ing one from each thousand if the
numbers AABOOO, ABBOOO, 888000,
etc., are to be disregarded. The total
number is thus 17,558,424. If the
numbers ending in 000 (EFHOOO, etc.)
are counted-in, the total would bp
17,575,999 (the number omitted, of
course, being AAAOOO). The equiva-
lent totals for AAAOOI to FZZ999
are 4,051,944 and 4,055,999....
C.E.W.: The first Canadian transcon-
tinental railway-line, that of the Cana-
dian Pacific Railway, was completed
in 1885, and early this century the
two additional transcontinental lines
were constructed. In 1917 the Cana-
dian Government acquired the capital
stock of the Canadian National Rail-
way Company, and in 1919 the Grand
Trunk was included in the Govern-
ment railway-system, which in 1922
was consolidated and reorganised
under a single national board, the
Canadian National Railways. There
are thus two transcontinental systems,
the National and the privately owned
Canadian Pacific Railway H.E.P.:
(1) and (2) Unable to trace. (3)
Correctly it is “Tall oaks from little
acorns grow.” (It is not “giant oaks.”)
The words were written by David
Everett (1770-1813), in a school
declamation for Ephraim H. Farrar,
aged 7, New Ipswich, New Hampshire
(U.S.) in 1791....8.D.; The Sydney
Royal Easter Show was held during
World War 1....W.H.E. (Renmark,
S.A.): The Army abbreviation S.R.D.,
stamped on a proportion of supplies,
stands for Supply Reserve Depot. On
items such as the rum issue of World
War I the lettering was stamped on
every package T.J.G.: Greece re-
mained neutral during most of World
War I, with the Greek Court leaning
towards the Central Powers. In June,
1917, after Greece had been blockaded
and a show of force made by the
Allies, the pro-German King Con-
stantine was forced to abdicate, and
his son Alexander placed on the
throne. Greece then entered the war
on the side of the Allies. At Versailles
Greece was given territory taken from
Bulgaria (which, like Turkey, had
fought with the Central Powers) and,
in Turkey, large areas of country
around Constantinople and Smyrna.
This was probably to compensate for
her loss of Rhodes and other islands
of the Dodecanese, which had been
seized by Italy during the Graeco-
Turkish war (1912) and allowed to be
retained by her at Versailles. Greece,
however, did not remain long in pos-
session of the parts of the Turkish
mainland; it tried to seize Constanti-
nople and launched an offensive
against Angora, but the strong Turk-
ish Government of Kemal Ataturk
by 1922 had driven the Greeks right
out of Asia Minor E.V.J.: (1)
Prince John, youngest son of King
George V and Queen Mary, was
born on July 12, 1905, and died at
Wood Farm, Wolferton, where he had
been living for some time, on Jan. 18,
1919. His health had long been of
anxiety to his parents; he had been
subject to fits. On Jan. 21 he was
buried at Sandringham. (2) She re-
mains seated K.L.: The English
novelist Nevil Shute’s full name is
Nevil Shute Norway John S.: It
has been calculated that the “gates”
for the four Rugby Union Tests Aus-
tralia v. South Africa last year
amounted to £589,000. Highest
amount was £30,000 for the first Test
at Johannesburg N.R.: The name
Yahoo was originally coined by the
English satirist Jonathan Swift (1667-
1745) in Gulliver’s Travels. The
Yahoos were a race of degraded
human beings, slaves of the
Houyhnhnms, the dominant race in
the land. The Houyhnhnms were
horses gifted with reason and remark-
able virtue (the word was coined by
Swift in imitation of the neigh of a
horse).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
C.C.: Lady cyclist now pedalling
her way home J.8.T,: Didn’t
fancy your abo. who made a meal
out of the Chinese c00k... .M.W.:
That decrepit effort was wheeled into
the office tomb N.J.S.: You have
a remarkable fund of Biblical, classi-
cal, foreign and other quotations, but
they don’t make a yarn S.M.G.:
Don’t doubt that you can “supply
one each week”; but must you?
S.M.H.: You appear to be working
steadily through some old book of
Scotch and Jewish jokes... .H.R.K.:
If that drunk makes another appear-
ance we’ll mount a howitzer to keep
him away... .E.E.M.: That little hen-
pecked person was pecked to death
years ago H.T.: The point, if any,
is lost in a maze of words... .P.8.W.:
Followed your wandering swaggie over
10 pages and then lost him....
D.R.M.: The title made us wary and
the yarn justified our fears P.C.:
Not a smile in any of them....
H.G.R.: “Good enough for The
Bulletin!” Who told you that?....
F.J.T.; You should thank us for not
exposing your masterpiece to the
public gaze M.F.; Gentleman
with permanent wave and colored
nails was booted out E.D.: Just
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
another of the “six-months-to-live”
school... .N.D.A.: Do you really
believe that a swagman “never growls
when things go wrong”? L.F.:
Re-inter the corpse “at dead of night
in the Stygian gloom beneath the
apple-tree” 8.A.: Stick to familiar
subjects and keep trying J.N.W ;
Sorry for the chap with fleas in his
beard, but can’t let him loose in our
pages W.M.: You’re a bit late in
the day with a poem about the
Queen’s visit... .R.C.: The moths
had got to it long before it reached
us A.L.: No, we won’t “adopt
your brain-child” E.J.T.: Things
like that should be kept under lock
and key C.S.: Won’t have that
damsel cavorting round these premises.
.... A.S.C.: “I have several more like
these if they wouldn’t waste your
time.” They would B.McP.;
Seen those jailbirds many times
before C.H.D.: What is it all
about? V.F.: The idea is not bad,
but you’ll have to dress it better than
that M.A.: Stick to autograph
albums S.F.S.: The same blowsy
female hurling the same accusation
and the same rolling-pin at the same
inebriate.... L.T.A.: What’s this?
Prospector stealing his mate’s gold
and dying of thirst in the desert. Be
off! A.M.: True, true, but it’s not
a poem L.S.: Liked neither
Oswald nor his pet canary W.M.:
“Dream Ship” was wrecked on the
second page An old but
unwelcome acquaintance S.H.W.;
“Paddy Maloney’s Night Out” sent
us hurrying out for a reviver.


An Era Ends in Adelaide
City's Vanishing families
By JOHN GARDNER
A FAMILY moved out of
the last surviving dwelling-
house ■in Victoria-square,
Adelaide, the other day.
Tradesmen stripped off the old
colonial-type veranda, dug up
the tiny strip of garden, and
made the building fit for an
office staff, typewriters and
filing-cabinets.
The move in this square—the
centre of Colonel Light’s 114-
year-old city, and based, some
say, on the Piazza Duomo in
Catania, Sicily—symbolises the
dramatic reconstruction going
on daily inside the “square
mile.”
In a tiny stone stable up a
near-by side-street the city’s last
blacksmith told me he’d got
notice to go after 30 years at the
same anvil. A multi-storey
warehouse is going up there.
Round about, the two last “live”
theatres had closed, maybe for
ever. The Prince Alfred Hotel
had closed ; the Windsor Castle
will go soon.
Within a few years houses
by the row and singly have
been demolished, more churches
have shut, Scots in Flinders-
street is the next to go. Factories
and workshops, mostly small,
have mushroomed up in every
part of the city. Families reared
in the city are going to the
suburbs.
General prosperity of South
Australia under Premier Tom
Playford is, of course, respon-
sible for much of the boom. The
alteration in the balance of in-
dustry and city dwellers comes
about through effects of the
three-year-old City of Adelaide
zoning by-law. Under this,
virtually the whole of Adelaide
proper —the “square mile” —will
become a commercial, industrial,
administrative and professional,
factory and shopping area, cut
up into zones.
A small strip of land along
the eastern and southern terraces
and a thin belt around two of
the four city squares —Whitmore
and Hurtle —are being left for
dwelling-houses. North Adelaide,
in its own belt of parklands, is
being left as a residential area,
but locals never regard it as
part of the city proper, anyway.
In the surviving residential
pockets the city’s quaint village
air is dying hard. Families have
lived in the same houses for
years. Children have been
baptised and married in the
church around the corner. Sons
have gone off to the wars. The
Central Market, one of the best
in Australia, is still the tra-
ditional shopping-place for the
weekend food for city people.
And so, a bit north of the
old stone forge with “C. J. Orum,
Blacksmith” over the door, you’ll
find amid factories and new,
coughing, rumbling machinery,
old homes and little flower-
gardens, with a fig-tree there
and a grapevine here. There
are geraniums in tubs and tins
and ferns dangling from jutting
balconies with ironwork friezes.
Gradually they will all go.
Some of the old-’uns in the
north-west part of Adelaide
can still yarn about “Smiler”
Hales and his . cobbers in
Hindley-street’s residential hey-
day, of the families who lived
above the shops, and of
venerable Father Mark Dela-
hunty, of the top-hat, snuff-
marked beard, and a heart of
gold. But the homes from
which Father Mark collected
kids he used to load with
Merchants’ lemonade and piles
of Albert cake and bags of
lollies have gone. Warehouses
and factories rear on their site.
In the big stone-walled
convent these days nearly all the
youngsters come from outside
the city. A church youth-
organisation was ended the
other day because the families
which had kept it going had
gone. The diminishing residen-
tial area in the north-west is
given over mainly to foreigners
and half-castes, many of them
hard-working people living near
the job.
It is in the south-western and
south-eastern quarters of the city
that you can savor the Adelaide
known and often loved by so
many who have lived in its
compact, park-ringed square.
Here, families point to the little
street where Peter Dawson was
born, talk of the time when West
Adelaide won the football
championship of Australia and
every shop and house ran up
the red-and-black.
In those days there were bands
playing in the streets —Setaro’s
string-band and the fat little
Germans who used to blow
tunefully and energetically to
the delight of all, especially the
kids, until one day when the
Kaiser’s war came and the
military drove up and took the
little men away from their
cottage in Field-street.
Every barber’s shop was a
local “Parliament,” for George
Hann, the O’Sullivans, Andy
and Paddy Gardner, Rudy
Pietsch and a score of others.
At Christmas every shop-front
there was garlanded with bush-
boughs or pine-branches.
Geese and ducks and fowls
in bags were bought quacking
or cackling at the carbide-lamp-
lit fair-ground alongside the
markets. Here every weekend
were Charley Nelson and W. H.
Bruce with their tented games
and rings, spruikers and the
other fun of the fair. Bruce
gave the kids toys as they went
into his “pictures” behind his
butcher’s shop.
City dwellers took most of
their amusement in the city
itself or in the adjoining park-
lands. The four terraces
seemed to make the place a
sort of walled city. In noisy,
colorful military parades on
Montefiore Hill, alongside the
River Torrens, the bright-
uniformed volunteers marched,
turned, trumpeted and saluted
before the State Governor and
other bigwigs of the day on the
great flat before the big belt of
fig-trees.
They still talk in town of the
vast parties the German mine
host of the Bushman’s Club
Hotel (now the Gothic), on
Whitmore-square, used to give
for mobs of kids in the district :
Herr Hunderfundt, I think his
name was. And the smell of
new bread and rolls and pastries
coming from the little bakeries
all around the town ; the wood-
fires, and the pie-stalls which
came out at night with their
warm ovens and lovely aroma.
The city was sprinkled with
grill-rooms, fish-cafes and chop-
house style eating-houses where
you could sit in cosy, partitioned
rooms. Coffee-shops and
restaurants on Continental
lines, like Kindermann’s and
Dittmarr’s, where you’d play
chess and dominoes or draughts
while you had your thick, hot
apple-slice and coffee or brown-
topped coffee-cake or still-warm
Vienna-twist . . .
How few people will be
living in the “square mile” a
decade hence is your guess.
Population of the city proper
and North Adelaide were always
lumped together until 1947, so
percentage-drift from the city is
hard to estimate. Records show
the peak figure for the whole
area as 42,294 in 1911. The 1947
census showed a drop of 7304 to
34,990. But some hitherto
unpublished figures for the city
area in 1947 —given to me by
Assistant Government Statist
H. L. Semmens —show that the
7304 equal about one-third of
the square mile’s population in
1947 (21,963).
The figures to come out later
this year will probably show a
record exodus from the city.
With the tremendous expansion
of business premises there’s
little room for new arrivals or
old residents.
I looked around some of the
old spots again the other day.
There are workshops and
machines and long rows of
parked lorries and cars where
years ago were homes and tiny
gardens ; where the womenfolk
nursed their neighbors and
looked after the sick one’s
youngsters and did the washing
when there was sickness or
tragedy.
And so, perhaps unnoticed by
many, a city’s human heart
shrinks, and an era in a State’s
life hastens to an end. The
citizenry bow to “progress” and
the use of a zoning-law,
properly debated and written
into the Statute-books. But I’m
sorry the families are going.
A Sea-wolf of the 'Sixties
By CLEM LACK
ONE of the most extra-
ordinary incidents in
Australian colonial
history was the affair of
the Shenandoah, which caused
considerable dramatic tension,
mixed with comic-opera, in
Victoria in the middle-’sixties.
Activities of the Shenandoah,
the Alabama, and other Con-
federate raiders led to serious
international friction between
Britain and the United States,
which was then at war with the
Confederated States of America.
The Southern Confederacy,
impoverished, scraping the
bottom of its manpower barrel,
and bleeding to death from its
costly victories, strove to break
the strangling blockade of the
Northern States with speedy
blockade-runners and by des-
troying Federal shipping.
Its fast raiders ranged far
and wide on the Seven Seas.
Lairds, the great shipbuilding
firm of Birkenhead (Eng.), built
most of the raiders. Lairds
Secretly built for the Confederacy
a ship called the Ore to, to
specifications for a British Navy
cruiser, but without guns. She
cleared Liverpool, ostensibly
for South America, with a cargo
of “machinery.”
Off Madeira, she met another
ship which had sailed the same
day with a large passenger-list
of “Southern gentlemen.” The
“machinery” came up out of the
hold, to be mounted on the gun-
deck. The British flag came
down, to be replaced *by the
flag of the Confederacy, and the
Confederate cruiser Alabama
stood out, under the command
of Captain Raphael Semmes,
to sweep thie seas.
In her career as a sea-wolf,
from August, 1863, until the
summer of 1864, when she was
sunk by the U.S. cruiser
Kearsarge off Cherbourg
Harbor, she sank or burnt in
the South Atlantic and Indian
Ocean more than 100 ships.
Next to the Alabama, the
Shenandoah was the most
famous of the raiders built in
Britain for the Confederacy.
“Her career,” one Australian
newspaper reported, “reads like
the old deeds of Drake and
Raleigh on the Spanish Mam.
Ranging the Pacific and Indian
Oceans she sank no fewer than
37 ships mostly whalers.
The Shenandoah, flying the
red-and-white ensign of the
Confederacy with the St.
George s Cross and Stars,
steamed mto Port Phifiip on the
afternoon of January 25, 1865
anchoring near the pier at Port
Melbourne
Although the Imperial
Government had warned Vic-
tona to observe strict neutrality
between the belligerents in the
‘war between the States
Waddell, commander of the
raider, was granted permission
to effect repairs and take on
board coal and supplies, but
he was refused permission to
land eignt prisoners-of-war- The
prisoners themselves decided the
issue by escaping ashore, no
attempt being made to prevent
them leaving the ship.
William Blanchard, United
States Consul in Melbourne,
vainly protested against the
presence of the Shenandoah in
port, contending that she was
a pirate and should be seized,
His anger increased when he
discovered that the Shenandoah
was enlisting recruits for her
crew in Melbourne. On his
sworn declaration. Attorney-
General Higginbotham issued
a warrant for the apprehension
of several persons on charges
of violating the Foreign Enlist-
ment Act and the Queen's pro-
plantation of neutrality. • Police
were twice refused permission
to search the ship, and Waddell
threatened to “fight his ship”
rather than permit the search,
at the same time affirming on
his honor that no such persons
were aboard and that no enlist-
ments of Melbourne citizens
had been made.
On the very evening of the
day (February 14) when Waddell
made this positive statement,
four \ men were apprehended
leaving the Shenandoah. Wad-
dell asserted that they were
“stowaways” without his know-
ledge. As a sequel to this
episode, the Governor, Sir
Charles Darling, issued a pro-
clamation forbidding British
,*• . . ,
subjects to assist m launching
the Shenandoah from the slip
where repairs had been e e •
Fifty soldiers from the Roya
Artillery were ordered to proceed
to Wilhamstown, but the order
was countermanded before
they left Spencey street railway-
station. According to Mel-
bourne Age of February 15,
troops were sent to the Williams-
town where they
manned the guns and pointed
them in fihe direction of the
Shenandoah. Captain Standish,
Chief Police Commissioner in
command of a force of police
armed with loaded carbines,
placed a guard over the engine-
house at file slip so as to prevent
the ship being moved from the
cradle, and formally took
possession of the ship in the
name of the Victorian Govern-
ment ;
Waddell stormily protested
against what he described as the
seizure of his ship, and the
Government, allowing itself to
be convinced that no more
British subjects were lurking on
board, climbed down. A new
proclamation was issued with-
drawing the original prohibition
against the launching of the
ship.
The Victorian Government
was by this time w.shmg it
had never seen the Shenandoah
and was desperately anxious to
see the last of her. The drama
of subterfuge and evasion was
enlivened by a violent quarrel
between the Victorian Govern-
ment and the United States
Consul, who claimed that the
neutrality of the port had been
violated-as, in fact, it certainly
had—and was naturally anxious
that the raider should not be
allowed to put to sea again to
continue her devastating attacks
on United States shipping. At
the * same time, Waddell
threatened to report the dis-
respectful and insulting treat-
ment” to which he had been
subjected to Richmond, Virginia,
capital of the Confederacy, and
Blanchard was no less deter-
mined that Washington should
be fully apprised of how
grossly he had been insulted.
Blanchard had made strenuous
efforts to induce the Victorian
Government to take note of
information in his possession to
the effect that more Victorians
were being recruited, and were
actually waiting to be taken on
board another yessel which it
arranged> would
transfer them to the Shenandoah
as as she beyond
victorian territorial waters . He
hurried to p ar i iame nt House
and saw the Attorne y- G ene ra l,
who fobbed him off ' advising
him tQ S£ek out Mr Sturt , a
magistrate> But Sturt likewise
brugh d Blanc h a rd off. He
dedined to take an affldavit and
referred the ragin B i anchar d to
Water p olice at williams .
tQwn
‘ turn by the
• and vacillation of
authorities 1
vicmrian auinorii e
Washington wote bffterly -
do D 1 n l ot s V e
a^d ea - rg tbat do not and
j £ ear tbat tb j s port [Melbourne]
portion of them as may P be
P°™ d ” su occasion”
required to suit me occasion
All his efforts to have the
raider detained were m vain,
The Shenandoah slipped away
from Wilhamstown on the
morning of February 18 and
after clearing the heads, steered
south-west. Her career after
heaw
British Government in heavy
damages, awarded by the
arbitration tribunal at Geneva
It was held by the tribunal
that her depredations after she
left Melbourne were made
possible by the additional crew
which she recruited there The
number of recruits obtained
" as high as
ot). Blanchard reported to
Washington that he was in-
formed a boatman
boat was used, that he saw six
boatloads of men leave the
wharves with their luggage and
row to. Shenandoah and
that they were taken on boaid
the ship through the propeller s
hoist-hole,
Visit of the Shenandoah to
Melbourne cost the British
Government £807,375. Total
amount awarded the United
States in compensation for the
destruction wrought by the three
raiders Alabama, Florida, and
Shenandoah was $15,000,000,
payable in gold within one year.


OTColUurj's
Scots CU Kisky
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOUTH-EAST ASIA PACT
Commenting editorially on the
prospects of a defensive alliance
in South-East Asia, “New York
Times” notes that “the question
of long-range security in the Far
East is extraordinarily complex”:
“Many South-East Asian
countries, notably India, are
neutralist by tradition and view
Western ‘colonialism’ as equal
to Communist aggression in
menacing Asian independence,
Britain feels that India should be
included in any South-East
Asian security-agreement. The
U.S. is outspokenly opposed, on
strategic and political grounds,
to making concessions to the
Communists and feels that any
security organisation must be
resolutely anti - Communist.
These varying positions have
given rise to two different basic
plans for organising South-East
Asian security in the wake of an
Indo-Chinese truce.
“One plan calls for a type of
non-aggression pact whereby the
Asian nations and the Great
Powers would pledge themselves
to respect each others’ borders
and the provisions of an Indo-
Chinese truce. The plan was
broached by Prime Minister
Nehru of India, and has been
endorsed by Britain. At a dinner
in New Delhi Chou En-lai gave
a toast to Mr. Nehru hinting at
Chinese support for the plan.
“But it is strongly opposed by
the U.S. on the grounds that it
would (1) be no serious bar
against further Communist
aggression ; and (2) carry with it
recognition of Peking, as one of
the signatories, possibly paving
the way for admission of Com-
munist China to the U.N.
“The other plan calls for estab-
lishment of a Seato (South-East
Asian Treaty Organisation) along
the lines of Nato, linking
interested anti - Communist
countries together in a common
defence effort against aggression.
The plan has been repeatedly
proposed by the U.S., with
endorsement from Australia and
New Zealand. But Britain has
been chary of it, chiefly out of
fear it would keep India out of
South-East Asian security plans.”
Further to those difficulties,
“N. Y. Times” correspondent
Tillman Durdin adds that
“guarding the remainder of
South-East Asia will not be
easy. Thailand, flanked by Com-
munist power, can expect sur-
reptitious aid to Thai subversive
movements,
“Burma may also be likely to
feel increased pressure from
Communist quarters. In case of
actual war the Communists
would have available the same
strategic Indo-China bases from
which Japan launched her
conquest of South-East Asia.
“Communist success in Indo-
China may, however, increase
the unity and determination of
forces opposed to further Com-
munist advance in South-East
Asia, and this would be a gain
for the free world.
“It still appears unlikely that
such confirmed neutralist nations
as India and Indonesia would
associate themselves with a
United States-sponsored South-
East Asia defence system. How-
ever, the reality of growing
Chinese Communist power in
relation to South-East and South
Asia may eventually cause
concern even in these bulwarks
of neutralism, and bring a shift
in the direction of a more
sympathetic attitude toward
South-East Asia defence.”
As to the attitudes of the
various South - East Asia
countries, a London “Observer”
estimate rates them:
Siam. —The longest common
frontier with Indo-China, a
St. Louis (U.S.A.) “Post”
SHADOW AND SUBSTANCE
frontier that is difficult to
defend; a large Vietnamese
population in the north which is
already disloyal to Siam. Three-
million Chinese of doubtful
loyalty form one-fifth of the
population. The Government is
strongly anti-Communist, but it
“is not firmly based. Its domestic
support lies in the Army and the
police both of ?which are
divided into factions. The
people, on the whole, are pros-
perously apathetic about
politics.”
Burma. —A short frontier with
Indo-China, but a long and
“largely undemarcated” frontier
with China. Burma fears China,
and the Burmese, by their
Buddhist religion, are opposed to
Communism. But Buddhism is
often so opposed to Western and
modern ideas that it provides a
breeding-ground for Communist
revolt. Though the Government
is anti-Communist, “political and
economic weakness, added to the
spectre of immediate Chinese
invasion, makes it likely that the
Government will continue to rely
for safety on the fact that un-
provoked aggression against
Burma by China would rouse
Indian anxiety,”
Malaya. —No land boundary
with Indo-China, but a guerrilla
problem consisting almost
entirely of Communists and
Chinese who, though only a
minority, have succeeded at times
in making much of the Chinese
community (about half the total
population) appear of doubtful
loyalty. The Malay part of the
population is mainly non-
Communist, and regards China
as a menacing Power controlling
the fifth-column in its midst.
Malaya would automatically be
included in a South-East Asian
pact which Britain joined.
Philippines. Strong diplo-
matic and economic ties with the
U.S.A. The Government has
indicated that it is prepared to
discuss a South-East Asia pact,
but anti-colonial feeling is very
strong, and there was opposition
to any involvement in the Indo-
China war. The United States
has permanent bases in the
islands, and the use of these
would be the main contributions
the Philippines could make.
Indonesia. —By far the most
anti-Western and pro-Communist
Government in the area. It is
anti-Western because it won its
independence in 1949 only after
a bitter struggle with the Dutch,
and since that date the Dutch
have refused to turn over West
New Guinea to the Indonesian
Government, which claims it as
an integral part of the State. It
is pro-Communist partly for the
same reason, but mainly because
of internal politics.
Ceylon. Has a military
alliance with Britain, and its
Government is firmly anti-
communist, though it has
important trade-ties with China.
Would probably be prepared to
join a South-East pact unless the
pact was strongly opposed by
India.
Pakistan. —Has gone a long
way towards close association
with the West by obtaining
military aid from the U.S.A. and
by entering into an alliance with
a Nato Power —Turkey. The
Prime Minister’s anti-Communist
stand has the support of most of
the country because of its
Muslim faith, although most
Pakistanis regard India as a much
nearer menace than Russia and
hardly regard China as a menace
at all.
India. —The attitude of Pandit
Nehru has had since 1947 a de-
cisive influence over policies in
South-East Asia. His policy of
neutralism has been based on two
main premises: first, that his
country, and its neighbors, need
an area of tranquillity in which
they can begin to solve their
economic problems ; second, that
there is no force in Asia which
intends to upset that tranquillity,
and in particular China will not
do so because her need for peace
and economic development is as
great as India’s.
Disarmament
Postscript
In a short editorial post-
mortem on the failure of the
U.N. Disarmament Commission’s
London meetings, “New York
Times” observed that “the
Russians still insist on a one-
sided disarmament of the West.”
To this end, the paper adds,
the Soviet demands an agreement
obliging all nations not to use
atomic or hydrogen weapons,
thus assuring the military pre-
ponderance of the Communist
world and its inexhaustible
resources of manpower.
The Russians try to hide this
design by suggesting a later inter-
national convention outlawing
atomic and hydrogen weapons,
supposed to take effect simul-
taneously with the establishment
of an international control-
system to which they pretend to
agree. But they render this
agreement void by refusing to
make such a control-system fool-
proof or vetoless.
The Western Powers, therefore,
“insist on a step-by-step pro-
cedure under an international
authority having effective powers
of control. In an attempt at
compromise, the French and
British, with Canadian and
American support, proposed to
ban atomic and hydrogen
weapons immediately, ‘except in
defence against aggression.’
“But the Russians, even
though experts in denouncing
defence against Communism as
aggression, would have none of
this, on the ground that it would
‘legalise the bomb,’ in the pro-
duction of which they claim to be
ahead of the West.
“That marked the end of the
talk.”
E.D.C. Prospects
The chances of the European
Defence Community materialis-
ing look so bleak at the moment
that even the most optimistic
commentators would probably
be more surprised than otherwise
if it came to pass.
Going by Press comment,
America is the most hopeful
about the prospects of E.D.C.,
but American correspondents in
Europe don’t read as if they
would put money on it. Two of
them, C. L. Sulzberger and
Walter Sullivan, both of “New
York Times,” express typically
pessimistic views.
Sullivan, from Bonn in West
Germany, notes that alternatives
to E.D.C. are being propounded
even by those Germans who were
hitherto staunch advocates of
European unity. Possibilities
advanced include:
The granting of sovereignty to
Bonn with the exception of the
right to arm.
The granting by the United
States and Britain of sovereignty,
including the right to arm.
The establishment of West
German diplomatic relations
with Moscow to facilitate the
reunification of Germany and
to provide trade outlets to the
East.
Sulzberger, recalling that
E.D.C. was originally a French
idea to prevent the revival of
German nationalism and to give
France a brake on the more
frightening aspects of German
energy, notes now that, although
Bonn accepts the formula and
Washington enthusiastically
endorses it, “Paris threatens to
talk it to death.”
“There is,” he adds, “the
increasing fear that clever French
legislators are going to extinguish
the project delicately by propos-
ing just enough amendments to
require brand-new international
agreements. For these neither
time nor patience exists.
“Meanwhile the mood of
France and West Germany is
shifting. The West Germans
have not yet deserted their tough
old Chancellor or his European
dream. Nevertheless, Jakob
a member of the
Adenauer Cabinet, has started
an ‘all-Germany’ unity com-
mittee ; Dr. Karl - Georg
Pfeiderer, of the Free Democratic
party, demands direct political
approaches to Moscow; and Dr.
Heinrich Bruening, former
Chancellor, wants Germany to
mediate between East and West.
“This change in mood reduces
the chances of the policy
endorsed by the United States
and its friends. If the European-
Army plan collapses, a political
crisis is possible. Should Paris
dissent, West Germany might
well be granted sovereignty by a
United States-British fiat and, as
a result, France would quarrel
with all three Governments.
This situation would present the
Soviet Union with the pleasant
opportunity of proffering
blandishment to both Bonn and
Paris, with the hint that if one
does not accept the other will.
“Meanwhile, German vitality
is plain. German statesmen are
considering an appeal to the
United States and Britain for a
direct alliance. German generals
are studying the means of defend-
ing their land without French
aid.
“The crisis that everyone had
hoped to avoid is coming to a
head. It is no longer a question
of how West Germany shall be
armed. It is a question of where
German weight will be felt in the
global scales —and of eventual
repercussions in France. Ulti-
mately it is a question of the very
existence of the North Atlantic
Treaty community as now
constituted,”
Guided Missiles
American developments in
guided-missiles have received
rather more publicity than have
those in Britain, but John Bull
has an old habit of springing
technical surprises in an emerg-
ency—as with radar in World
War ll—and it would be a fair
bet that British research is as
far advanced as any in the
world.
In a guarded comment on the
subject, the aeronautical corres-
pondent of London “Times Re-
view of Industry” notes that
guided-missiles for air-to-air,
surface-to-air (land and sea), au-
to-surface and surface-to-surface
are being developed both in
Britain and overseas. And,
although the British work is
under a pretty tight cloak of
secrecy, it is at least known that
over 100 British firms are busy
making various types of guided
weapons, components and the
electronic equipment which
forms the missile’s “brain.”
Some famous names in avia-
tion are concerned in this work,
including the Hawker Siddeley
Group (and particularly Arm-
strong Whitworth Aircraft), the
Bristol Aeroplane Company, De
Havilland Propellers, English
Electric, Vickers Armstrong
and, among the earliest in the
field, Fairey Aviation.
“A number of the leading
British companies,” the corres-
pondent adds, “have established
companies or depots in Aus-
tralia because of the facilities
offered by the Woomera testing-
range.”
As a pointer towards the pro-
gress of these weapons, the
British Minister for Supply
mentioned last year some “re-
markable advances in the de-
velopment of guided-rockets to
meet the requirements of the
three Services.” Some of these
are capable of speeds over 2000
miles per hour and heights
above 50,000 ft.; no piloted
aircraft could hope to out-
manoeuvre them.
This year’s British White
Paper on Defence revealed that
air-to-air missiles would be the
first into service, followed by
surface-to-air weapons. These
would increase the lethal effect
of new R.A.F. fighters—the
Vickers Supermarine Swift and
the Hawker Hunter —by about
four times. At the same time
the British Air Minister des-
cribed successful Woomera tests
as foreshadowing “the most im-
portant developments in air-
defence since the invention of
radar,”
The quoted correspondent re-
fers further to a “comprehensive
study” by Wing-Commander
S. H. Bonser, a specialist on
guided-missiles since the war,
who points out that the main
requirement has always been “to
deliver the right kind of missile
in the right place at the right
time.” Hitherto, the difficulty
has been with the accuracy of
fire-control and predicting
equipment, a problem that can
only be overcome if the missile


The road ahead in the
light of the H-BOMB
“Sooner or later—searching
in the horrendous glare of the
H-bomb —we of the free world
will discover a way to live side
by side at peace with our
present enemies,” writes Wil-
liam Hard, one of America’s
ablest journalists. His provoca-
tive gospel on the way to meet
today’s major problem and win
permanent peace makes an ar-
ticle of enduring significance
in August Reader’s Digest.
Get your August Reader’s
Digest today, with a wealth of
stimulating articles including
“How to live with your wife”
and “Jules Verne, father of
science fictioq.” August
Reader’s Digest on sale now
—one shilling and sixpence at
all newsagents and bookstalls.
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of;—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches ins—~
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
can be manoeuvred after launch-
ins.
The German rockets of World
War II could not be steered
after launching, but, since the
war, guidance systems have been
developed, so that a missile,
aimed in the general direction
of the target, will subsequently
seek it out and destroy it. This
can be accomplished by one of
two methods: by passive hom-
ing, whereby the missile homes
on the source of energy radiated
by the target; or by active hom-
ing, where the missile homes on
to the source of energy reflected
by the target.
Describing the two systems,
the correspondent points out
that “most military targets emit
some form of energy. For
instance, an aircraft in flight
produces energy in the form of
heat, noise, wake, infra-red
radiation, static electricity-
forms which can be detected
over various ranges. Thus, if
a missile is fitted with a detec-
tor and the received responses
are amplified and coupled to
apprdpriate control-surfaces, the
missile can be made to move to
the source of radiation and must
ultimately hit the target. That
is passive homing.”
The relatively short range of
this method can be increased by
the other system —involving the
transmission of energy from the
missile and the detection of the
energy reflected back by the
target. This detected reflected
energy can be coupled to the
missile control-system to steer
the weapon to the source of
reflection.
For this latter system the
missile must carry a transmitter
and receiver along the general
lines of a radar-set, but the size
and power of such an installa-
tion —and, therefore, the range
of the weapon—are, of course,
limited by the size of the missile.
Those limitations may be largely
avoided if the transmitter is
placed in an aircraft, and almost
completely avoided if the trans-
mitter is placed on land or on
a ship. The complete system
then consists of a remote, high-
power, high-definition trans-
mitter and a receiver in the
missile capable of directing it to
the source of reflected energy.
This “semi-active” system is
accurate over ranges of about
30,000yd5.:
“Approximately the same
accuracy over the same ranges
can be obtained by ‘beam-rid-
ing’ as are obtained by semi-
active homing. The beam is
provided by a high-power,
narrow-angle radar located on
the surface or in an aircraft and
locked on to the target. The
missile is fitted with a rearward-
looking receiver, which, together
with the control system, ensures
that the flight path of the
weapon coincides with the centre
of the beam. As this beam
centre is locked on the target the
weapon must ultimately hit it.”
Russia and the H-Bomb
In a survey of Europe, David
Lawrence, editor of “U.S. News
and World Report,” assesses
“Communist imperialism” as a
“combination of the old Russian
imperialism and Communist
dogmatism”:
“The Kremlin wants every-
thing that the Tsars wanted
from the Arctic to the Mediter-
ranean and from the Middle
East to the Pacific. But this im-
perialism now includes a crusade
for world-wide. Communism
which, under the guise of offering
more opportunities for the aver-
age man in a classless society,
would destroy every free Gov-
ernment that stands in the way
of Communist ambitions.
“We see, therefore, Soviet in-
fluence spreading out in a num-
ber of satellite countries in
Nashville (U.S.A.) “Tennessean”
NO PLACE TO HIDE
Europe and Asia through the use
of a new weapon —propaganda
and subversion.
“We hear often the theory
that all this is only a ‘battle of
ideas’ in the world. That’s an
oversimplification, too. When
you look at the millions of
people who live in Asia, at their
poverty and their illiteracy and
their lack of the means of in-
ternal communication that we
possess, and you hear some of
our friends saying ‘You have to
meet this with ideas,’ it should
be asked ‘Who is going to read
about these ideas and how are
they going to be distributed?’
“The only thing that can in-
fluence Asia profoundly today
is an improvement in its eco-
nomic condition. This the Asian
people will not get from the
Soviet Government. The Com-
munists may keep on promising
the moon, but they never yet
have improved the economic
conditions of any neighboring
country in their orbit.
“It is not, therefore, a battle
of ideas alone. It is a battle be-
tween good and evil, between
imperialism and freedom, be-
tween starvation and survival.
But behind it all is the intrigue
and political infiltration which
deceives the people in backward
countries as well as their be-
wildered leaders.
“The Communists have capti-
vated many of the intellectuals
in these areas, and those people
will not be converted by some
high-sounding words on our
part about how we are going to
meet these ideas with ideas.
“This battle will require not
only ingenuity on the idea side ;
it must necessarily have a
material or economic as well as
a military support. You must, of
course, bring moral force to
bear as well, and this means
psychological factors. But
basically military force is the
most essential of all. It is vital
for self-protection.
“Many think that the next
world war is going to be an
atomic war. This has been
dinned into our for many
months now, and the news-
reports of civil-defence re-
hearsals underline the prospect.
But suppose it is not an atomic
war. It may very well be a non-
atomic war, or a war mostly with
conventional weapons.
“The Soviets know 'we
[America] have a bigger quantity
of bombs and atomic material
than they have. Suppose they
announce that they would never
drop an atomic bomb on
United States territory or any-
where else, for that matter —
even after a war starts —unless
an atomic bomb were first
thrown at them. Suppose, also,
they say that, if an atomic bomb
or an H-bomb is dropped on
Soviet territory by the United
States, they will drop an H-
bomb on London, Paris and
Rome and on other big cities
of our Allies?
“Such an announcement in
advance of a war would almost
ensure the neutrality of our
Allies in Europe in their present
state of mind, unless we agreed
to the proposal not to use the
super-bomb. For our Allies
want to avoid an atomic war,
and you cannot convince some
people that death by bombs is
to be preferred to survival under
any kind of system, even the
Communist system.
“This is a practical, realistic
phase of the matter which I do
not think the U.S. has taken
into account. The French people
lived for four years under the
Nazi occupation and survived,
and hence the idea of a Com-
munist occupation does not
evoke half the terror for them
as the mere talk of destruction
by atomic bombs seems to
convey today.
“So you have the possibility
that—-not by agreement, but by
neutralisation or by mutual self-
restraint, as in case of poison-
gas or germ-warfare —neither
side will use super-bombs. It is
significant that the most power-
ful propaganda unleashed by
the Soviet Government all over
the world in recent months has
been a demand that the H-bomb
be outlawed. The motive is
apparent.
“Our military men are in-
sistent that if a war starts we
[America] will use every weapon
in the arsenal. But they do not
decide these policies. Political
leaders in London and Paris and
Washington make those deci-
sions. Safety requires that we
prepare, therefore, for every
contingency, including the pros-
pect that we may be forced to
fight alone, and including also
the possibility that —if we wanl
to keep our European Allies—
we might find it expedient to
agree, from a political rather
than a military standpoint, to
the neutralisation of the super-
bombs.”
Three on Suez
London “New Statesman ” —
“At a tense Cortservative-party
meeting Sir Winston announced
that the £7OO million Canal base
—with its 80,000 troops, its miles
of railways, roads and sidings,
jts fighter aerodromes and superb
radar defences must be
abandoned before its vulnera-
bility is exposed to thermo-
nuclear war. Britain’s Middle-
Eastern forces must now be dis-
persed in smaller patches and
safer areas.”
* V.
London “Spectator.” “Sir
Winston has been thinking
deeply of late of the effects of
the hydrogen-bomb upon
strategy, and he disillusioned the
diehard Tories brusquely when
he observed that ‘prestige’ (the
strongest argument of the die-
hards) cannot be maintained with
folly. The rebels should ask
themselves whether £5O million a
year and the ill-will of Egypt
is a reasonable price to pay for
the ‘prestige’ of remaining in a
base which could be out
by one blow in a major war.”
♦ ♦ ♦
London “Economist.” “In
several respects Anglo-Egyptian
relations have been restored to
a normal level. The British
Treasury has released £lO million
from Egypt’s sterling balances
held in London, as it was due to
do under the agreement of 1951
at some date during the current
year. Colonel Nasser’s Govern-
ment, faithful to the verbal state-
ments its members had made, has
at once responded by lifting all
restrictions on imports from the
sterling area.
“Colonel Nasser has also
agreed on a new tie-up with
Western oil companies and, most
important of all, perhaps, is the
fact that the Nasser Government
has used its influence to cause
‘incidents’ to dwindle to nothing
in the Canal Zone. The British
as well as the Egyptians stand to
gain if an era of complexes and
posturing is over.”
Various Voices
U.S. representative at U.N.0.,
Henry Cabot Lodge: “The ad-
mission of Red China to the
United Nations would be illegal
and immoral, and would fly right
in the face of what we want U.N.
to be. We want it to be an
instrument to repel aggression,
not just a cockpit for interna-
tional politics, where the law-
abiding and criminals are all
scrambled together.”
Anthony Eden : “The idea of
a pact for South-East Asia and
the Pacific is not really a new
one. It has been canvassed for
many years. It is wrong to
suppose that it suddenly sprang
into the light a few weeks ago,
fully armed, like Minerva from
the head of Jupiter. Its relevance
to current events must not be
exaggerated.”
Mr. Justice Stable (during an
obscene-publication case at the
Old Bailey ); “Are we going to
say that our contemporary litera-
ture is to be measured by what
is suitable for a 14-year-old girl
to read?”
Mr. Sandys, British Minister
for Supply : “The Ministry for
Supply has given contracts to a
number of firms to undertake
research into various methods of
vertical and near-vertical take-
off. Engines and airframes suit-
able for this purpose are being
developed.”
U.S. diplomat Morehead Pat-
terson, describing Russian con-
ference tactics: “Make a pledge
without safeguards. Make
promises without providing for
policing these promises. Say
that you want safeguards, that
you want international control,
but evade discussion of the
practical methods of securing
those controls. Propose plans
that will disarm the West without
disarming the Soviet bloc. Shout
for peace and, at the same time,
arm to the teeth.”
Sir Francis Mudie, chairman
of the mission touring Malaya
to inquire into rubber-pro-
duction : “The discovery of any
new process in synthetic rubber
production may be able to be
put into use within one year
and thereby bring down the
price of synthetic rubber in
that time. In the natural-rubber
industry it is not possible to do
this. If a reasonable replanting
programme is adopted then cost
will come down and production
will go up. These are the con-
ditions necessary if you want to
compete with synthetic rubber.”
Mr. George Ward, British
Under-Secretary of State for
Air: “It cost about £lO,OOO to
train a bomber pilot in 1945,
and it costs about £25,000 now.
There are several factors, includ-
ing the increased performance
and complexity of aircraft, the
additional cost of aircraft spares
and fuel, and pay increases.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Our Artists
Home again in England, a Press cor-
respondent who covered the Royal tour
in Australia reports that he was regarded
as exaggerating when he described Aus-
tralia as a land of great natural beauty.
“You’ve gone overboard,” said one. “I
suppose it’s really a harsh, sun-parched
kind of place.”
That idea, so prevalent overseas, is
mainly due, in my opinion, to the cur-
rent craze among our artists for paint-
ing deserts. Central Australia must be
crammed with artists’ caravans parked
wheel-to-wheel like the Mornington Pen-
insula (Vic.)' at Christmas-time.
Those with a genuine knowledge of
the Centre, such as Namatjira, show it
in all its grandeur and wide range of
lovely hues. The others depict it as flat,
stony and dreary, inhabited by hopeless,
skinny creatures with dull, staring faces,
who live in hessian humpies, wear bag-
like clothes and look as if they’ve been
stranded there since the Burke and Wills
expedition.
After deserts our artists favor slums —
the two themes giving, apparently, a bal-
anced view of Australia’s country and
city life. At any rate, these are the two
types of Australian paintings that seem
mostly to be exhibited overseas. No
wonder other people have some queer
ideas about us.
There is no other country whose artists
are so intent on recording only its worst
features. Today’s painters will tell you
they have developed far beyond the Tom
Roberts-Arthur Streeton kind of stuff—
Heidelberg and Templestowe were
worked-out long ago.
Constable and his successors have not
by any means exhausted the English
countryside in 150 years; but our pro-
lific geniuses have exhausted nearly all
Australia in a generation! When the
desert and slum era ends they’ll have to
turn to Heard Island and the Antarctic
for inspiration—or go back for another
look at the Yarra Valley.— Mabsout
(Vic.).
Grammar
“No Patois” (B. 7/7/’54) seems to have
got his ideas on European history and
language from mid-Victorian school
primers.
Two thousand years ago Latin was the
natural speech of certain peoples in cem
tral Italy, and there was more than one
kind of Latin. The Latins —or Romans
—were capable people and extended
their rule, first over all Italy, and finally
over much of Europe, part of Britain,
the Mediterranean coasts, Egypt, Syria,
Anatolia and Mesopotamia. Wherever
the Roman armies, officials and mer-
chants went about the new provinces they
naturally took their own Latin tongue
with them, but all over the Roman dom-
inions the native, subject peoples con-
tinued to speak their own language and
live by their own culture.
In Italy itself the peoples of the Greek
settlements continued to speak Greek.
North of the Tiber the people of Etruria
continued to speak Etruscan. North of
the Po were the people of Cisalpine Gaul,
and theirs was a Celtic speech. France
was Transalpine Gaul, again with a Celtic
speech; but there were wide areas of
Basque speakers in the south-west.
Basque must have been the main language
in Iberia except, perhaps, around the
passes from Gaul; and along the south
coast there were Greeks at Gades, and
probably a good deal of Berber from
Africa.
Long before literate Roman times the
Indo-European peoples had delighted in
the harmonies and beauties of good
speech, oratory and recitative singing.
The Celts had, and still have, their Bards
and Bardic singing. The Teutons had
their Skalds. The Aryans had their
priests and singers who composed and
preserved orally the Upanishads, and the
hymns of the Rig Veda. The Iliad and
the Odyssey were composed, and recited
centuries before they were committed to
“You throw down the money, lady, an' he sing just like Bob Hope!"
writing. Who, then, developed the beau-
tiful Greek language' that Homer used
with such power? The Greeks of those
days would have qualified as “barbar-
ians” by any Imperial Roman standard.
The truth is that literate grammarians
never created any language, nor preserved
one.
The Beowulf was composed in non-
literate Germany long before the Saxon
brought it to England. Old Anglo-Saxon
was a fully inflected, highly grammatical,
language before it was brought to Eng-
land by its speakers, who can only be
described as barbarians and savage ones
at that.
Old Anglo-Saxon continued in use as
a literary, poetic and lovingly spoken
language almost unchanged nearly to the
time of the Conquest. But under the lash
of the Danish invasion and the Norman
Conquest, the loss of native, English
leaders, the substitution of Norman pre-
lates and Norman church discipline for
the English church and priesthood, the
establishment of Norman French in the
law, and its use by the Court and all that
was powerful in England, Old Anglo-
Saxon bowed to the ground and lived
on stubbornly on the lips of the common
people. It was despised by the Normans
and for centuries was no more than the
speech of the market-place and the
peasant’s hut.
Yet when Geoffrey Chaucer took it
to write his Canterbury Tales it was cer-
tainly not a patois. Somehow, over a
period of four hundred years, the people
of England, who were certainly not
grammarians, had transformed a fully
inflected, grammatical language into an
analytical speech with scarcely any in-
flections, a full complement of auxiliary
words and a syntax that provided all and
more than the power of the old grammar.
Chaucer and his followers, and Shak-
speare and the Elizabethans enormously
developed this new English before the
Latin-worshipping grammarians of the
17th and 18th centuries began to fit a
Latin coat upon it. C
To paraphrase “No Patois,” “The
Anglo-Saxons began with German and
finished up with English which is intel-
ligible to themselves but not to # the
Germans.”
In The New Machiavelli H. G. Wells
referred to “The Gothic intricacy, the
splash and glitter, the jar and recovery.
the stabbing lights, the heights and broad
distances of our English tongue.” Official
grammarians have had very little to do
with the creation of that lot. —S. M. C.
(N.S.W.).
Western Australia, Too
South Australia is admittedly making
spectacular progress (B. 23/6/’54), but
W.A. is also on the way up, and fast.
The booming of gold in the 1890’s
gave the first big impetus to Westralian
development; gold brought people to the
West and attracted capital for all sbrts
of business enterprise.
At the end of World War I there was
again a considerable movement of popu-
lation to W.A., and with it a great open-
ing-up of country through land-settle-
ment schemes ; goldraining was waning ;
and W.A. began to rely and concentrate
on farming. World War II further
boosted agriculture, but also brought
some advance in secondary industry.
Now the oil-boom has ushered-in
what may well be Westralia’s real future.
At the end of War II the State began to
get into its stride, but it was Anglo-
Iranian’s decision to build a huge oil-
refinery at Cockburn Sound (it will be
the biggest refinery in Australia), climaxed
by the Rough Range oil-find, which really
stepped-up the tempo of W.A.’s industrial
progress.
The number of factories increased last
year by 158, to 3424; in 1946-47 the
figure was 2615. Value of their output
has risen from £3B million in 1946-47 to
well over £lOO million. When the big
basic industries now under construction
at Cockburn Sound (Anglo-Iranian’s
refinery, B.H.P.’s steel-rolling mill near
by and the cement-plant not so far away)
get going, this figure will soar beyond
present telling. And W.A,’s freedom
from industrial strife has been the envy
of other States.
But the West’s advance has not been
confined to industry. Helped by favor-
able seasons, primary production is in-
creasing and the State has been getting
good prices for most of its primary pro-
ducts. As with S.A. also, the value of
W.A.’s mining-production is constantly
rising—though goldmining nowadays
needs to be helped along. And the State
may have valuable uranium-deposits at
Lake Dundas.
Westralia’s fisheries have made good
progress in recent years; the value of
the catch is rising all the time. Another
increasingly important industry is whal-
ing (the Australian Whaling Commission
has three stations operating in W.A.);
the 1953 season was the most successful
since whaling was resumed in 1949. The
timber industry, which has for so long
been a pillar of strength to the State’s
economy, is flourishing, in better condi-
tion than ever.
One part of the State which will pro-
bably receive a lot of attention in the
next 10 years or so is the nor’-west.
Much will have to be done up around
the Kimberleys, an area which is one
of the richest potential food-bowls in the
world. First needs are for better com-
munications and suitable cargo-handling
facilities. Railways are probably neces-
sary, and good roads definitely.
All in all, the picture in the West is
very healthy. Westralia’s industrial future
is bright—and, what’s more, most of its
developing industries are of national
importance.— Maros (W.A,).
Australian Tradesmen
Clem Lack may “know Australian
tradesmen’’ (B. 7/7/’54), but I am an Aus-
tralian tradesman, having served five
years’ indentures at Sydney from 1916 to
192 L My present work is supervision of
repairs to shipping ; and, although I have
spent considerable time overseas in many
places, I don’t know any place where
marine repairs are worse executed than
in Australia, nor any place where they
are so expensive.
“C.L.” says that “She’ll do” means
that the tradesman concerned is satis-
fied that he has done a “topnotch job.”
Not a bit of it! It means that he thinks
the job may pass the inspector if that
officer is in a hurry. Even if it doesn’t
it won’t matter much because nearly all
marine repairs are on cost-plus, and the
customer will have to pay even if the
inspector rejects it.
Careless workmanship is the greatest
trouble we have to face in marine repairs.
Granted that some Australian tradesmen
can turn out good work, but very few
of them do unless an inspecting officer
compels them to do so. That is my daily
experience.— Benbow (Q.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 289
Across
I—Deface1 —Deface mother and peer into this
boy. (9)
s—lt5 —It is noted for trembling like a
writer. (5)
B—Very8—Very high capital takes me to a
cricket team and a company
citizen, but why? (6, 4)
10 —A noble look. (4)
12— Kind of welding. (3)
13 — Accompanists are not expected to
have this love to write jumbled
type with a negative. (4, 5)
15 —You are expected to have one
about a superficial matter. (4)
17 —Australian airman gives you fifty
thousand. (3)
19— Knowing Nancy to confuse the
tin State of U.S.A. (5)
20 — Yours in the surroundings. (5)
21 — Papal communication on a Vic-
torian mount. (5)
22 Russian pianist who toured Aus-
tralia several years ago is less
adequately draped. (5)
25 — Sweet potato may take a turn.
. (3)
26 — A god makes nothing but noise.
(4)
27 — Only one weight town in N.S.W.
wearing underclothing. (9)
28 —The leaders are usually in this
vehicle. (3)
30 — Roman author gets nothing but
sixpence. (4)
31 — Acute variation gets out of bed
and sears. (10)
32 — Half of a toy American private’s
Hindu ascetics. (5)
33 — Box with the cobbers in bomb-
proof chambers. (9)
Down
1 — Mother takes the box-office
animal to be an object of foolish
worship and fear. (5-5)
2 Otherwise upset over a kiss by a
N.S.W. bowler. (5)
3 China’s rancho, (anagram) (6, 6)
4 Relative to a grubby. (7)
6 Mexi is thus in another part of the
puzzle. (9)
7 Standard boy. (4)
9—Girl who finishes off a post-
mortem. (5)
11 —Dipping mutton in a mixture of
flour, milk and egg? (9, 3)
14 —Vegetable. (3)
16—-Ends a section of the school year
with batting customs. (10)
18 —Bite by a borrower is hurting.
(9),
22 —A slab of timber. (5)
23 — Nonsense, a setback spins like the
world. (7)
24 Poetry upset a Nigerian tribe. (3)
28 — Call to have a session after six.
(5)
29 Belch a couple of prepositions.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 288


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch; 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane-
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK. Manager.
“HERE'S YOUR SONG”
Each week Australia’s singing favourites, Neil Williams and Lily
Connors, backed by the Gus Merzi trio and introduced by
compere John Pearce, present six songs you asked to hear in
“Here’s Your Song,” radio’s most tuneful quarter-hour.
Stars Lily Connors and Neil
Williams with compere (centre)
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
John Pearce.
2NX 2NM 2CA 2LF 2PK 3CV
6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
Me MACQUARIE
Two Jokers in
the pack
by J. Hodgkinson
<t“T HIS bloke Harris and his
leg-pulling are beginning
| to give me the willy-
willies. One of these
days he’ll go too far and some-
body’ll pin his ears back.”
Having unburdened himself,
Ted Roden, factory storeman,
turned to his stock records as
though shutting out the disturb-
ing Harris by delving into a
realm of matter-of-fact where
jokes, practical or otherwise,
were strictly out.
As a fitter Tom Harris was
good enough; as a practical-
joker he had few equals. Some
people said he spent all his
waking hours thinking up jokes,
but this was not so. Some of his
best efforts were spontaneous,
spur-of-the-moment jobs, like
this last one.
In the interests of safety-first,
the management of the large firm
where Harris worked were retail-
ing to their employees a special
safety-boot. These boots were
strengthened and had a steel
plate in the toecap. Drop four-
hundred pounds on the toe from
a height of. several feet, and, so
the experts said, it would not dent
the toecap. None of the men
Harris knew had tried this
experiment; but then, not many
men could lift four-hundred
pounds.
OARRIS was wearing a pair of
these boots when walking
through the mill on his way to a
repair job.
“Hyar, Tom?” sang out one
of the men.
Harris, always ready for a
yarn, pulled up. “Hello there,
Bill. How’s tricks?”
“Not-bad. Say, Tom, you’ve
got a decent pair of boots there
Where’d you get ’em?”
“Oh-oh, the boots,” replied
Tom. “They’re the new safety-
boots they’ve got up at the store.
All right, eh?”
“My word! Just the shot for
this place. What did they rush
you for them?”
“Well, they’re three-quid over
the counter, but between you and
me they’re fifteen-bob under the
lap.”
“How do you mean, Tom?”
“Well,” said Tom, leaning over
confidentially, “this pair I got
are shop-soiled—just as good as
new, mind, but shop-soiled.”
“I want a pair of boots, badly :
how do you get ’em at that
price?”
“You know Ted Roden, the
storeman?”
“Yes.”
“Get him by himself and
whisper in his pink ear. You
understand, there’s only a limited
supply at that price. They don’t
let everybody have them, but just
mention my name; you’ll be
right.”
So, with the seed well and
truly sown, Harris went blissfully
on his way.
T>ILL could hardly wait until
" three o’clock, when he
knocked off, to get around to the
store, where he buttonholed Ted
Roden.
“I want a pair of shop-soiled
boots, Ted, size eights.”
“We haven’t got any shop-
soiled boots. Who told you we
had?”
“Tom Harris.”
“Ah, you don’t take any notice
of that goat, do you? He’ll tell
you anything.”
“Yes, he told me about these
boots. He was wearing a pair.”
“Well, listen, mate, I’m busy,
if you’ll excuse me.”
“That’s all right, Ted. I’m not
in, the swim, I suppose. You
gotter be in the clique to get
’em, I know.” '
“Look, mate,” said the now-
irate storeman, “just use your
head. This is a factory store,
now how would we get shop-
soiled boots?”
“You could’ve got a job-lot
from some shop in town.”
“Yes, we could’ve, but we
haven’t.”
“All right, Ted. I’m going
now; but I’ll take it up with
somebody higher up.”
“It doesn’t matter who you
take it up with: the boots are
three-quid to everybody. They’re
all new and you take your pick
like everybody else.”
Bill was as good as his word,
and next morning Big Jeff, the
foreman of his section, came to
the store.
“What’s this I hear about you
refusing to let one of my blokes
have a pair of shop-soiled boots,
Ted?”
“Oh, no, not you as well,
Jeff! A man like you ought to
know we’ve got no shop-soiled
boots.”
“How should I know? Tom
Harris is wearing a pair. Why
don’t you let Bill have a pair?
He’s got a big family and a cheap
pair of boots would help him.
Besides, he’s a good worker.”
“Now look, Jeff, I’m too busy
to argue the point. We haven't
got any cheap boots, we never
have had any and that’s all there
is to it. So long.”
Later Ted got hold of Harris
and induced him to go and see
Bill and explain that the whole
thing was a joke. Whether by
accident or design on Harris’s
part this only made matters
worse.
“It’s all right, Tom,” said
Bill. “I can see what’s happened.
You opened your mouth too
wide when you told me about
the boots, and Ted’s got on to
you about it and you’ve come
down here to square off.”
A FTER lunch Mr. Walton, the
works-manager, entered the
store. His talk with the store-
man was fairly general for some
time until, on the point of leav-
ing, he said, casually:
“What’s this talk I hear about
shop-soiled boots, Ted?”
Now, Ted Roden liked his job;
he liked Mr. Walton ; but it took
all his willpower to enable him
to tell the story of the boots with
a reasonable degree of restraint.
The manager listened carefully.
chewed over it for a while and
then said,
“This is how I see it. This man
Harris is having a joke at Bill’s
expense, but Bill’s taking the
matter seriously. The important
point is that Bill’s a decent family
man and a good worker; and
he’s beginning to get discon-
tented.”
“ ‘Beginning’ is putting it
mild, Mr. Walton. He’s down-
right hostile.”
“It is rather unfortunate. We
can’t let him have a pair for
fifteen shillings ; if we did every-
body else will want them at that
price. As a matter of fact, if
there’s any trouble I’d be inclined
to give the boot business away.
We don’t make a penny out of
them at three pounds ; we only
carry them for the benefit of the
men. This thing could snowball
if Bill spreads the idea that he’s
not getting a fair go. We’ll have
to do something. Don’t you
worry. I’ll think it over. By the
way, what size boots does Harris
take?”
“Size eights.”
“Good.”
TyrEXT morning Harris was
changing into work-clothes
in the locker-room.
He stuck his right foot into his
boot, wriggled his toes and —
funny, he thought, it feels wet.
He stood up and — squelch! it
was wet. He took off his boot.
The sole of his sock was wet
through. He tipped up the boot
and water ran put; did the same
with his left boot and water
cascaded over the floor. His
foreman was in the room, so
Harris called him over.
“Here’s a bit of a turn-up,
Les; there’s water in my boots.
Do you think somebody’s been
into my locker?”
“How could that be, son?
You know as well as I do that
all these lockers have different
keys. It must be perspiration.
You know, we have to work in
some pretty hot places at times,
and the stiffeners and toecaps of
those boots don’t let the moisture
escape. It looks to me as though
it all goes into the leather while
you’re wearing them, and when
you put ’em aside it comes to the
surface. Anyway you’ll be on a
hot job today, Tom, so your
boots won’t be wet for long.”
Harris put on his boots with
some misgivings.
The foreman was right about
the hot-spot; it was the hottest
place in the factory. So hot that
he was allowed fifteen minutes in
every hour , for a breather.
Perspiration dripped from Harris
all day. Somehow he couldn’t
help thinking that his boots were
half-full of water. Every step
he took he imagined that he
could feel the squelch. Strangely
enough, when he took his boots
off that night, they were reason-
ably dry.
That night he thought it over ;
he wasn’t keen on the idea of
putting on wet boots every morn-
ing. A man could get tinea or
something. People got colds and
pneumonia getting around with
wet feet. He’d have to do some-
thing about it.
Next morning he had with him
an extra pair of boots. When
he took his safety-boots from
his locker, tipped them up and
water poured out, he muttered,
“That settles it.” Putting them
back in the locker, he put on his
other pair and went down to the
fitting shop ready to start work.
During the morning he made it
his business to go through the
mill, where he saw Bill. Bill
saw him, too, but Bill was a
man with a grievance these days,
and he sulked. Harris sidled over
and said, “Hyar, Bill?”
Bill grunted and went on with
his work.
“Want a cheap pair of boots,
Bill?”
Bill looked up. “Say, you
kidding?”
“No, no, I mean it. I’ve found
I can’t wear the boots I got. Too
many hot jobs on maintenance
work. But they’d be right for you
down here. You take eights,
don’t you?”
“Yes,” said Bill. “How much
do you want for ’em?”
“Thirty-bob,” replied Harris.
“Now, wait a minute, Tom.
You only gave fifteen-bob for
them yerself, and you’ve worn
’em a couple of days or more.”
“That’s nothing. They’re as
good as new.”
“Yes, but they were shop-
soiled when you got ’em, you
know.” ,
“Oh, all right; you can have
’em for fifteen-bob.”
“Good,” said Bill. “To-
morrow’s pay-day ; keep ’em till
then and I’ll give you the cash.”
IN spite of Harris’s experience,
the safety-boots were still
popular with the men. Another
thing that surprised him was the
way they looked at him and
grinned when, during the next
few days, he regaled them with
an account, a la Harris, of the
astonishing amount of water that
poured from the boots each
morning.
He began to realise that the
grins were not wholly due to his
lugubrious manner of telling the
yam. Innuendos from one or
two in the know forced him to
the conclusion that, this time, the
joke was on him.
Ted Roden could have told
Harris the truth about the boots,
but Ted’s lips were sealed for a
very good reason. Hanging on a
nail in the store was a master
key for all the lockers: it had
easy for him to open
Harris’s locker after everybody
else had gone home and pour
water in Tom’s boots. It was all
very irregular and against the
rules. But, of course, Ted only
did it for a joke.
It was noticeable, as time
passed, that the affair of the boots
did something to Harris. His
efforts at humor were puny in
comparison with the trouble he
would take when in his prime.
His heart was not in the game;
he always pulled back: before he
got too far in. Somehow he
couldn’t get used to playing with
two jokers in the pack.
LANDSCAPES
To look at landscapes loved by the newly dead
is to move into the dark and out again.
Every brilliant leaf that lives by light
dies from its hold at last and desires earth’s bed
men and trees and grasses daily falling
make that veil of beauty for her. Slight
aeons of soil on rock, of grass on soil, of men
standing on grass, can’t hide her outcrops. Stone-
stone our father, locks in, tongueless and without feeling,
our far blind brothers, future, and past who had no luck
and never was born. And now the newly dead
is lowered there. Now we weep for eyes whose look
is closed on landscapes, loved and at last known.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
''
!; if;
! m ■! : i.■
: S
**>•
- sr .
m
f: ■ A
M
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaghf Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
COMMENTS ON WHEAT
WRITING in London “Daily
Telegraph” L. St, Clare
Grondona, “Australian - born
economist and author,” remarks
that “while it is naturally dis-
turbing to the 59,000 Australian
growers that wheat prices should
have fallen —with further reduc-
tions in prospect this is
extremely good news for the 50
million people of the United
Kingdom.”
The writer makes the point
that the prices of all other grains
—barley, oats, rye, rice, maize
and sorghum—are closely allied
to wheat costs ; and so are “peas
and beans and the residues of
nuts and seeds from which oil
has been extracted. Excepting
only rice, all these—with the
wheat-offals, bran and pollard—
are the concentrated feeding-
stuffs for livestock. With these
cheaper, the output of dairy and
poultry products, pork and bacon
and certain other meats would
greatly increase—with substan-
tially reduced selling-prices.”
Which illustrates, neatly
enough, the importance of a drop
in price to the man-in-the-street
in London, Birmingham,
Glasgqw or Tolpuddle. How-
ever, “to get the present situation
into focus, it is essential to recall
the events in the wheat world
since 1949, when the four-year
International Wheat Agreement
was signed. The parties to that
agreement were the United
States, Canada, Australia,
Uruguay (which withdrew after
one year) and France, as
‘exporters,’ and 37 (subsequently
increased to 41) countries which
were ‘importers.’
“Total exports under the
agreement were to be 456 million
bushels, later increased to 580
million bushels. The importers
undertook to purcnase specified
quantities, of which the United
Kingdom would take 177 million
bushels, Italy 40 million and
India 38 million bushels. All
agreed to pay, at port of ship-
ment, at least $1.50 per bushel,
and this sum decreased by 10
cents a year in the following
three years.
“A carryover of wheat by the
exporters of 196.4 million
bushels in July, 1947, had been
followed by one of 436.6 million
in 1948, and it was expected
when the agreement was signed
that there would be a further
increase as at July, 1949.
“It was then clearly the inten-
tion that, if this grain continued
to be in superabundant supply
in the ensuing four seasons, its
price should be permitted to
decline in orderly fashion by not
more than 10 cents a bushel, per
annum, down to $1.20 in 1953,
when the situation would be
reviewed. For their part, the
exporters agreed that the
maximum (1.W.A.) price should
not exceed 1.80 throughout the
four years.
“A series of bountiful seasons
followed, with carryovers con-
tinuing to increase to nearly
1000 million bushels in August,
1953. Yet, far from there being
any reduction of price, this
remained constantly at $l.BO
throughout. This setting at
naught of the law of supply and
demand was due mainly to the
fact that the United States Com-
modity Credit Corporation
(C.C.C.) stood ready to buy
American wheat at prices higher
than the I.W.A. maximum by
19 cents in 1949-50, by 38 cents
in 1950-51, by 40 cents in 1951-
52, and by 41 cents in 1952-53.”
Leaving the “Daily Telegraph”
writer in mid-argUment for a
moment, it is interesting to
glance at the Australian
“Quarterly Review of Agricul-
tural Economics,” in which
John M. Clark makes a more
dispassionate summary of price-
support schemes. In the U.S.
Wheat distribution throughout the world; black areas and dots indicate acreage.
wheat prices have been sup-
ported since 1938. The Agricul-
tural Adjustment Act assures
growers of a price (“parity”
price), or a stipulated percentage
of a price, which bears the same
relationship to the prices of the
goods the farmer buys as did
wheat prices in the period
1910-14 —good years:
“The most common method of
supporting U.S. wheat prices at
these levels is by means of
‘loans.’ Under this arrangement,
the farmer is free to sell his wheat
on the open market should prices
exceed the support price, which
is announced some time before
the beginning of the harvest.
“If open-market prices are
below the support level when the
crop is taken off, the Govern-
ment, through its agency, the
Commodity Credit Corporation,
is prepared to advance to the
grower the support price as a
loan on his wheat, provided it is
stored under approved conditions
either on the farm or in com-
mercial warehouses,
“Should market prices subse-
quently advance, the grower may
then sell his wheat at the higher
price and repay the loan in cash.
If, on the other hand, prices
remain below the support level
until towards the end of the
season, when the loans mature,
the Government will accept
delivery of the wheat at the
support price in full repayment
of the loan.
“In each of the post-war years
U.S. wheat prices have been sup-
ported at 90 per cent, of the
wheat-parity price. Movements
in the latter have been such that,
except for slight reversals in 1949
and 1950, the support price has
steadily increased from 149 cents
per bushel in 1946 to a record of
221 cents per bushel in 1953.
During this period the average
price actually received by farmers
has exceeded the support level
on only three occasions, in 1946,
1947 and 1950. In the other
years farmers have received
prices ranging, on average, up to
10 cents, or nearly 5 per cent.
below the official support rates.
This situation may arise either
because farmers are unable, or
are unwilling, to comply with the
requirements for loan eligibility
“In 1946 and 1947, when
market prices were well above
the support levels, only very
small quantities of wheat were
placed under loan, and none was
eventually delivered to the
C.C.C. In each of the subsequent
years, however, the price-support
programme assumed more
importance. In 1952 a total of
nearly 370 million bushels, or 28
per cent, of the crop, passed into
C.C.C. possession, and it was
estimated that a new record of
about 480 million bushels would
be set during 1953-54.”
The “Daily Telegraph” writer
states: “It was an extraordinary
situation. The more wheat the
American growers produced the
dearer it became to American
consumers, because they had to
pay in taxation for all that went
into the C.C.C. as well as for the
wheat they consumed; and on
top of that they had to subsidise,
by over half a dollar, every
bushel they sold under I.W.A
contract.
“To the extent that the Ameri-
cans paid the price for this
peculiar state of affairs it was
their own concern. But unfor-
tunately the effects, extending
far beyond the United States’
domestic sphere, were detri-
mental to the economies of all
wheat-importing countries.
“When the I.W.A. came up for
review early in 1953, the Ameri-
cans demanded a maximum of
$2.25 under a new agreement, to
take effect from August 1.
Britain’s offer of $2.05 having
been refused, she courageously,
and very wisely, declined to be a
party to the new agreement —a
decision which has since proved
disconcerting to the three chief
exporters.”
The “U.S. News, and World
Report” sums up the situation
(as it affects the U.S. consumer)
tersely; “Wheat-price war simply
means that you [an American],
as a taxpayer, must foot the bill
for a larger and larger export
subsidy to move wheat into
world markets. Taxpayers’
dollars pour out to maintain the
price-support programme. Then
—to try to get rid of the surplus
—a whopping loss is taken to
subsidise lower prices for export
wheat. Clear?”
This weakness in the American
system would appear to be one
factor contributing to a
cautiously optimistic line taken
by T. H. Strong, director of the
(Commonwealth) Bureau of
Agricultural Economics:
“The high prices which other
countries have found it necessary
to pay producers in order to
encourage greater wheat-produc-
tion are strongly indicative that
Australia would enjoy a clear
comparative advantage in open
competition. At present, Aus-
tralian wheat faces competition
from heavily subsidised produc-
tion in major importing and
exporting countries. This is
causing complications at a time
when the production response
of those countries has been
greatly assisted by an extra-
ordinary run of favorable
climatic conditions. In the longer
run, there is little doubt that
importing countries will find it
difficult to maintain their present
production policies, nor can they
afford to let wheat prices fall too
far in exporting countries which
are, after all, among the main
markets for their own exports.”
This matter of increased pro-
duction—and higher prices to the
grower —in the importing
countries is something which
seems to deserve more attention
than it has received. Up to, and
including, the 1953 harvest the
British Ministry of Food pur-
chased all [U.K.] millable wheat:
paying very high prices, by Aus-
tralian standards.
The Canadian system is not
unlike the Australian one. Since
1953 practically all wheat has
been marketed through the
Canadian Wheat Board. Sales
are made on a pool basis, the
grower receiving an initial price
at the time wheat is delivered,
with interim payments and a dis-
tribution of profits at the end
of the season. The initial price,
which is fixed by the Dominion
Government for the leading
grade of wheat. No. 1 Manitoba,
always represents the guarantee,
whereas in Australia, except on
, two occasions since the war, the
initial price has been below the
guaranteed price. And the
Canadian Government is entirely
responsible for any losses result-
ing from the wheat pool’s opera-
tions, while the Commonwealth
Government, under the 1948-53
legislation, undertook a similar
obligation only in the event of
grower - contributions to the
stabilisation fund being
inadequate.
However, as “U.S. News and
World Report” remarks:
“Diving wheat prices mean
diving income for Canada's
wheatgrowers.” Despite this (a
correspondent reports in the
London “Economist”), there is
no panic. Apart from “poli-
ticians who may have peculiar
interests in such matters,” and
“the sprinkling of gloomy indi-
viduals which is usual and
proper,” Canadians are taking
the situation pretty calmly.
Canadians see the world wheat
problem as one of demand rather
than of price. They do not
believe that much more wheat
would be consumed if the price
were 20 cents lower. But
“Canada will be involved in any
competitive price - reductions
which may be made by the other
three big exporters—the United
States, Argentina and Australia
—even though they arise from
the effort to sell soft wheat, in
which Canada is not concerned.”
In a recent A.B.C. broadcast
Professor S. M. Wadham, Dean
of the Faculty of Agriculture at
Melbourne University, came out
for reduced acreage. The situa-
tion has been masked, Wadham
said, by good seasons, and also
by the fact that much farm
equipment was bought at lower
prices than those ruling at
present. Also, the replacement of
the horse by the tractor means
that the farmer is much more
vulnerable to rises in costs than
he was before. Propaganda on
world food-shortages, too, had a
bearing on the situation. But
world food-standards are now
back to pre-war levels. Malnu-
trition is still rife, but “malnu-
trition is largely a question of
higher-quality food than cereals
such as wheat.”
New England Lessons
HTWO years of drought to
succession have
tested sown pastures on. the New
England (N.S.W.), and have pro-
vided a valuable guide to graziers
planning future sowings. In
general, sown pastures have
proved valuable in drought years,
and, provided the right clovers
and grasses are sown, they will
survive drought and make a rapid
response to rain.
The N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture’s belief that phalaris
is the foundation of pastures in
the New England has been
(Continued on page 34)


A
Number
Value
£
GROSS SALES
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
500
50
70
1,400
400
500
KILLED FOR
RATIONS
Sheep
Cattle
Pigs
30
48
♦COST
STOCK *w.n,..r-r
ON HAND 30/6/»54
*Strike out whichever is not
applicable.
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
9,400
448
7
46
12,220
2,688
80
23
LOSSES BY DEATH,
ETC.
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
70
2
14
Total number should agree
with total number in
Section B
10,637
Total value Section A
1
£17,359
B
♦COST
STOCK nrrnr
ON HAND l/f/53
*Strike out whichever if not
applicable.
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
5,000
100
5
50
8,000
400
50
45
PURCHASES—
AT COST
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
2,000
300
2
4,400
2,500
30
NATURAL INCREASE
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
3,000
100
80
Total number should agree
with total number in
Section A
10,637
Total value Section B
— Deduct £15,425
Note —The profit on Livestock Account is £1,934,
i.e., Section A £17.359. less Section B £15,425
PRIMARY PRODUCERS' INCOME-TAX GUIDE
[Specially prepared by a BULLETIN expert ]
A primary producer is a person who carries on the business of a grazier, wheat-farmer, poultry-farmer,
apiarist, orchardist, sugar-planter, market-gardener, oyster-grower, etc, but not that of a fisherman. The classi-
fication of a person as a primary producer is not disturbed if he derives only part of his income or incurs a
loss by carrying on a business of primary production, e.g. a “Pitt-street grazier.” Partners and beneficiaries,
where the partnership or trust is engaged in a business of primary production, are also classified as primary
producers.
Income-tax returns of primary producers for the year ended June 30, 1954, should be completed on Form “B”
and lodged by August 31, 1954, irrespective of the amount of profit or loss. The Commissioner of Taxation
will grant an extension of time beyond that date if a reasonable explanation is given to him in writing.
Income tax and social-services contribution are levied on liable income, which is gross income less allow-
able deductions.
Unless a primary producer lodges with the Commissioner an election in writing that he does not wish the
averaging provisions to be applied in his Assessment, or unless his taxable and average income both exceed £4,000,
the averaging provisions will be applied in the calculation of the rates of tax payable by him. An election applies
to all subsequent years and it is irrevocable. There are special provisions in regard to the years of income to be
included in the calculation of the average income. Subject to these special provisions, the average income is the
average of the five years, consisting of the year of income and the four preceding years.
The following provisions relate to income earned in every part of the Commonwealth by a resident of any
State.
GROSS INCOME
• Gross income consists of payments and allowances
received in money or kind for work done, profits from
any business activity, and income from investments.
Examples are: —
1. Profit on livestock transactions as calculated in Live-
stock Account.
2. Gross proceeds from sales of any produce —for example,
wool, meat, skins, grain, fruit, fodder and eggs.
3. Agistment fees and timber royalties.
4. Bounties, subsidies and drought-relief.
5. Gross earnings from contracts, cartage or other work.
6. Insurance claims received for loss of livestock, crops,
etc.
[Note: The taxpayer may elect, when lodging his
return, to have insurance-recoveries on livestock losses
spread over a period of five (5) years.]
7. Market value of live or other trading stocks given
away.
8. Depreciation allowances in previous years to the extent
recovered by sales of permanent assets.
9. Salaries, directors’ fees and other earnings by the
primary producer.
10. Interest, rent and dividends received by him.
• Gross income does NOT include: —
1. Surplus of proceeds from sales of permanent assets
over original costs.
2. Value of fodder purchased or produced for own use
and on hand at year-end.
3. Gifts received, other than for services rendered, includ-
ing legacies from deceased estates.
4. War-service, old-age, widow’s or invalid pensions.
5. Income-tax refunds.
6. Bonuses on insurance policies.
7. Dividends from goldmining shares.
ALLOWABLE DEDUCTIONS
• Expenses and losses incurred in gaining or producing
gross income, or necessarily incurred in running a business
for that purpose, are allowable deductions. Examples
are: —
1. Operating Expenses
a. Salaries and wages paid to employees, pay-roll tax,
and cost of food for business employees.
b. Rent (excluding that for private residence), rates,
agistment fees, hire of plant and equipment.
c. Repairs to plant and equipment used in primary
production, but not repairs to own residence.
d. Car expenses, including petrol, oil, repairs and regis-
tration.
e. Power, fuel and light, except that used for private
purposes.
f. Seeds, fodder and fertilisers.
g. Livestock expenses, including veterinary fees, shearing,
crutching and droving, licks, vaccines, medicines and
breeding service-fees.
h. Selling expenses, including cost of bags, woolpacks,
cases, commission, cartage, freight, advertising and
storage.
i. Travelling expenses, excluding those of a private
nature.
j. Insurance on vehicles, plant and equipment, stock and
crops, and workers’ compensation (excluding domestic
servants in private residence).
k. Cost of communication, except that of a private nature.
1. Interest on borrowed money used in the business.
m. Accountancy fees, bank charges, replacement of small
tools, subscriptions to trade organisations, etc.
n. Depreciation.
2. Special Capital Expenditure
a. Eradication or extermination of animal or vegetable
pests from the land.
b. Destruction and removal of timber, scrub or under-
growth, indigenous to the land.
c. Destruction of weed or plant growth detrimental to
the land.
d. Preparation of land for agriculture and ploughing and
grassing for grazing.
e. Draining swamp or low-lying land to improve the
agricultural or grazing value of the land.
f. Preventing or combating soil-erosion, other than by
erecting fences,
g Construction of dams, earth tanks, underground tanks,
irrigation-channels or the sinking of bores and wells
to conserve or convey water for use in primary
production.
h. Construction of levee-banks or similar improvements.
i. The cost of purchase and erection of wire and wire-
netting for pest-prevention purposes.
[Note: The cost of special plant and equipment for
the above operations is not an allowable deduction,
but is subject to normal depreciation allowance.]
3. Personal and Family Allowances
a. The following table sets out the maximum deductions
allowed for dependants who are residents of Australia
and whose separate net income does not exceed the
specified limits. The phrase “separate net income”
includes exempt income ( e.g., “tax-free” dividends),
but it does not include a legacy under a will, house-
keeping allowance or pin-money. Where the depend-
ant is a wife, husband or daughter-housekeeper, the
deduction is reduced by £2 for each £1 by which
the separate net income of the dependant exceeds
£65, and it vanishes if the dependant’s separate net
income exceeds £129. The deduction in respect of
a child under 16 years, a student child and an invalid
relative is reduced in each case by £2 for each £1 by
which the dependant's separate net income exceeds
£52. Proportionate deductions are allowed for depend-
ants who are maintained during part of the year only.
The income derived by a woman prior to her marriage
during a year of income is not taken into account
in the calculation of the proportionate deduction
allowable to her husband for that year;—
Maximum
Deduction
(1) Spouse —wife or husband .. .. £l3O
(2) Daughter-housekeeper of widow or
widower, provided she is wholly
engaged in keeping house for the
taxpayer . .. .. .. .. £l3O
(3) One child under 16 years .. .. £7B
(4) Each other child under 16 years .. £52
(5) Student child —between 16 and 21
years, receiving full-time education
at a School, College or University .. £7B
(Note: Deduction reduced by value of
any assistance given by Common-
wealth or State in connection
with education ,of child.)
(6) Invalid relative child, stepchild,
brother or sister not less than 16
years, and in receipt of invalid pen-
sion or certified by Department of
Health or approved medical practi-
tioner as being permanently incapaci-
tated for work .. .. .. .. £7B
(Note: Deduction reduced ' by the
amount of invalid pension.)
b. Father or mother .. .. .. .. £l3O
(Note: Deduction reduced by the
amount of the parent’s separate
net income, which would include
an age pension.)
c. Housekeeper —if wholly engaged in keeping
house for taxpayer and has care of children
under 16 years or invalid relative .. .. £l3O
d. Medical expenses—paid in respect of the
taxpayer, his wife and children under 21
years, daughter-housekeeper, invalid rela-
tive, mother or father, to doctors, nurses,
hospitals, chemists, opticians, dentists
(limited to £3O per person) and for the pro-
vision of hearing-aids, artificial limbs, etc.
Maximum per person .. .. .. • ■ £l5O
Note: (a) Expenses in respect of
daughter-housekeeper, invalid
relative, mother or father are
not deductible if the deduc-
tion as a dependant is not
also allowable.
(b) Expenses recouped by a
Government, public author-
ity, society or association
should be deducted from the
gross claim.
e. Funeral expenses —maximum .. .. £3O
/. Premiums paid on life assurance and per-
sonal accident and sickness policies, pay-
ments to superannuation funds, and to
medical- or hospital-benefit funds, in
respect of the taxpayer, his wife or children
(no age-limit). Maximum deduction .. £2OO
g. .Education expenses —amounts paid for or in
connection with the full-time education at
a school, college or university or from a
tutor in respect of a dependent child under
21 years. This deduction includes school
fees, cost of board and accommodation,
fares to and from school, college or univer-
sity, text-books, stationery and uniforms.
Maximum deduction per child .. .. £75
h. Gifts of £1 and upwards to certain charities.
i. Rates—water and council —paid on private
residence.
j. Calls paid on shares in mining companies.
[Deduction is limited to one-third of the amount of calls
(which do not include application and allotment money)
paid on'shares in companies carrying on, as their principal
business, mining or prospecting operations in Australia for
gold, silver, base metals, rare minerals or oil and in
companies carrying on as their principal business, afforesta-
tion in Australia.]
4. Trading Losses incurred during the previous
seven years.
DEPRECIATION
• Primary producers may elect to calculate deprecia-
tion on their working assets by the “prime-cost” of
“diminishing-value” method. Under the “prime-cost”
method the same amount of depreciation is allowed each
year until the cost of the asset has been eliminated. The
“diminishing-value” method provides for the annual
allowance to be calculated on the written-down value at
the beginning of each year. Written-down value is cost,
less depreciation allowed to date. Depreciation on assets
purchased on time-payment can be calculated on total
cost, including interest-payments, or on cost excluding
interest-payments. In the latter case, the interest-payments
can be claimed as allowable deductions from gross income.
• A special 20% annual depreciation allowance on cost
is granted to primary producers on almost all types of
plant and equipment purchased after June 30, 1951.
This rate does not apply to motor-cars, on which the rate
is 15%, if used for business purposes.
• Depreciation on plant and equipment purchased
prior to June 30, 1951, is allowable at the following
rates: —
Motor-vehicles and lorries .. .. .. • • 15%
Buggies, sulkies, drays and wagons .. .. • • 10%
Motor tractors .. .. . • • • • • • • 10%
Boring plant .. .. • • 10%
Agricultural implements . • • 10%
Windmills .. .. • • 5%
Barns and stables —
(i) Stone, brick or cement .. .. . * .. 2%
(ii) Wood and/or iron 3%
Woolsheds —
(i) Stone, brick or cement .. H%
(ii) Wood and/or iron 2%
Iron grain-silos .. .. • • • • • • • • 5%
Fences [excluding those allowable as Special
Capital Expenditure (Item i.) ] 3%
LIVESTOCK ACCOUNT
Livestock Account
• Primary producers have the option of valuing
livestock on hand at the end of each financial
/year either at “cost” or at “market selling value.
The method of valuation selected should be stated
in writing at the time of lodgment of the first
return, and cannot be changed unless approved by
the Commissioner in special circumstances.
The "cost” method of valuation, which is
generally regarded as more satisfactory, has been
followed in the above example. Under the “cost-
price” method, livestock on hand at the end of
the financial year and livestock killed for rations
are valued at the average cost of stock on hand
at the beginning of the year, purchases during the
year, and natural increase, which for this purpose
may be valued at any amount per head not less
than the following minimum values: —
Sheep .. ,. 4/- per head
Cattle • • ,. * £1 j, ,,
Horses ., .. £1 ,, ,»
Pigs .. .. 5/- „ „
Sheep on hand at June 30, 1954, in the above
example have been valued at £1/6/- per head,
calculated as follows: —
Stock on band at l/7/’53 .. .. 5,000 8,000
Purchases .. .. .. .. 2,000 4,400
Natural increase at 4/> .. .. 3,000 600
10.000 13,000
13.000
Average cost per head .. .. £ = £1/6/-
10.000
• If the whole or any part of livestock on
hand at the end of the year can be identified as
livestock on hand at the beginning of the year,
purchases or natural increase during the year, it
is permissible to value the livestock so identified
at “actual cost” instead of “average cost.” Selected
values for natural increase would in these circum-
stances be taken as actual cost.


The "FARMERS' BOY
'#/ does a MAN’S job
about the place
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
The circular disc with 3 cutter blades attached
revolving at a high speed guillotines paspalam and
DANK WEED GROWTH and will cut the grass as
short as you wish.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor
for free particulars and/or demonstration;
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. 8W4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne.
MU8551.
Queensland: BUZACOTT’S (QUEENSLAND), LTD., 443 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. FA2681.
Sole Aus. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Castlereagh St.. SYDNEY.
ROTARY SCYTHE
("Aust. Farm & Home" photo.)
Kent 73/50. The Near Perfect Ewe.
Champion Melbourne Royal Show 1952 and
the K. G. Luke Trophy.
"Our Great
Show Record
has been Greatly
Helped by
Elastrators”
writes Mr. N. H. and Mrs.
5. Wills, leading Dorset Horn
breeders.
Box' AO '
Miny'P
83/6/’ 54
(Reg 0 - .
Te \ e phone- pty. td
£1a st r aX °J*b A l
ua! y>oWTIL-^*—■
S£»*- aJ ‘ M -,w?«“SSS r
,eorSlr3^^S^^^ a
»s y-r&v r --ssf
er lost 0 * a *ni*e w*
\Ne have o o-rtwitis n the * .nn
£ias''‘“'
Dear Sirs.
.w-^iar««' „„..■**« *r
SS'*’* SU °“"e never 1-V “SnTe
« 0 “l« <* srt to i»««» « wn .e?c» tBBo
only eel aieut 6% d ne w 3 a»e P*
lone ”°\elU“* aod , every
tea for tai *■ that ©v« » s fce is
; “ riUS, „lea^te?^' >6t ° re „
tSS-^ 1 - •*«“ ’** everV e»l Wf
is tagged ring 0
to viours ol csVio«_ES^--r^4sSXr7rT^ournE
ar
is tagg e ld
12 hours old.
nut
tivXS— o of
asMsbnieiSS
®Sf^S®«£g
sno.
SStJg^S 1952 le^neiraiel-
oh a»P-’- fl9s %onre S.
SiStsygi^
Show
aw—^r-'
jtailiS
trator
that
„. fai^ fuXlV
ELASTRATOR
(Reg. Trade Mark)
Instrument - £6/6/-.
Rings (500) -30 A
Loader - - - £5/5/*
All Prices
plus Freight
lIP
A Product of
Elastrator (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
125 William St., Melbourne
Available from all Wool Houses,
Stock and Station Agents, and
Stores throughout Australia.
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage **
matter where your home may be,
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage !•
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
-DISTRIBUTORS!
N S.W.: Hygeia Dissolveuator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney-
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(OTand), Saunders House,
Wickham St., The Valley. Brisbane
VICTORIA ; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne. . n .
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hyge.a Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Bu
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. T. Me-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St* ’ Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wna. Crosby & Co.,
IX9 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
DAKWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
*Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street. Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place,
justified. Phalaris stayed green
and provided feed during the dry,
frosty winter of ’53. The spring
and summer were dry and
pastures appeared to be dead,
but after heavy February rains
phalaris appeared thicker and
more vigorous than before. It
carried well through the very dry
autumn and made a good growth
with the light showers and mild
weather of June. When inspected
in May the phalaris and white-
clover pasture at Chiswick, the
C.5.1.R.0. research-station near
Armidale, was still carrying the
eight weaners per acre which
this four-acre paddock has run
continuously for several years.
The clover had almost disap-
peared, but there was still a good
cover of phalaris.
Cocksfoot has also proved to
be drought-resistant. It was the
only pasture-plant to remain
green during the dry weather and
severe frosts of the ’53 winter,
and gave particularly good
results on the eastern-fall
granites.
The rye-grasses proved to be
too shallow-rooted for such
severe seasons. Many clover and
rye-grass pastures now consist of
clover only, and grasses will have
to be sown in. The very dry
autumn of this year was too
much for many paddocks of
Italian and other rye-grass sown
for winter use. Areas which were
germinated by the February rains
were still so poorly rooted in
June that they could not be
stocked because sheep would pull
up the plants. It appears that
the rye-grasses should be dis-
carded on the western slopes and
confined to moist, black-soil
areas elsewhere.
Lucerne solved the winter-feed
problem for those graziers who
had a good area. The very dry
summer of ’53, followed by the
copious February rains, appeared
to provide the right conditions,
and growth was so vigorous that
very good cuts of hay were
obtained. Every property with
an area of reasonably deep, well-
drained soil should have a
lucerne-paddock to ensure a
supply of hay for the winter.
Red-clover stands nfade good
growth in the spring, and some
good cuts of hay were obtained.
However, in the hot, dry summer
which followed, all stands two
years old or over dried-out-
Paddocks sown in autumn ’53
survived the dry summer, and
made very good growth after the
February rains, but did not
provide enough bulk for hay.
Red-clover should be regarded as
a biennial fodder-crop and its
place in pastures confined to pro-
viding cover and bulk while the
grasses are building up.
Sub.-clover made the best
showing of the clovers. Last
year it germinated very Well in
the autumn, and lived through
the very dry winter, to seed down
in spring well enough to start
again with this year’s February
rains. The light showers and
mild weather of June have
started it growing again even
where it has been flogged in
April and May. Provided that
the stand has been allowed to
seed-down well for one season
sub.-clover will survive several
very dry years.
■ White-clover did not make the
spectacular recovery of sub., but
it is slowly coming back, and if
the spring is good stands should
recover fully. Its splendid
response to summer rains merits
for white-clover its place in N.E.
pastures.
The most valuable lesson to be
learnt from the droughts is the
need to plan pasture-sowings
carefully over a number of years.
As permanent pastures must be
stocked very lightly, if at all, the
first year, and take up to five
years to reach maximum
carrying-capacity, a sharp dis-
tinction must be made between
short-term and long-term require-
ments. Some graziers reserve a
few good paddocks for fodder-
crops while pastures are becom-
ing established, others sow each
area to oats and then to red-
clover for several years before
sowing a permanent mixture. It
is not advisable to sow new areas
before earlier-sown paddocks are
established.
W. W. S.
New Guinea Plantings
“Mugga Way”: High world
prices for cocoa have encouraged
cacao plantings in New Guinea,
and latest figures from the joint
territory show that during the
census year 1952-53 there was an
increase of 4105 acres, compared
with an increase of only 3023 in
coconut plantings.
The figures are exclusive of
native production.
At the end of the census year
there were 6677 acres of pro-
ducing cacao-plants and 9308
acres of immature plants. There
is a strong trend towards inter-
planting with coconut (which
gives shade protection), and the
aggregate interpl anted acreage
was 12,455.
Soil Doubts
“Bull-oak”: Twenty-two years
ago I heard a very successful
citrus-grower scandalise a meet-
ing of fellow-orchardists by
telling them that the soil in their
district, which had a few
splendid groves and many medi-
ocre ones, was “merely a vehicle
for fertiliser.” Later I asked
him how long, in his opinion,
this particular vehicle would
last.
He said that any vehicle wears
out eventually, but that he hoped
his soil would last as long as
he wanted it. It did—with a deal
of cosseting. I’d like to be able
to ask some such candid
authority today, amid the rising
clamor of adjurations to the
man on the land to add this,
that and the other to his soil in
ever-increasing quantities, a few
questions:
Is it safe, in the long view, to
keep on using soil as “just a
vehicle” for fertilisers, correc-
tives, reconditioners, trace-
elements and all the rest of it?
Won’t the average soil gradu-
ally become exhausted and
finally break down?
What amount of ploughing-
back of organic-matter and/or
fallowing would be needed to
prevent this?
Isn’t it dangerous, in many
situations, to disturb the soil and
the growth thereon at all, in
view of wind- and water-
erosion?
Straight answers to questions
of this kind might be very
valuable.
Care of Dogs
“Big Billy”: A useful guide
to feeding a working dog is to
give |oz. tucker for every pound
of the dog’s weight each day.
Adjustments of this ration will
be necessary for pregnant or lac-
tating bitches, pups, for all dogs
in cold weather and during con-
valescence.
Regular feeding is important,
with the one full meal each day
being provided in the evening,
If supplies of raw meat cannot
always be kept up, supplement
this with table-scraps, porridge
and poultry-mashes. Be careful
to boil all animal-offal for at
least ten minutes, to guard
against hydatids. Surprising how
many sheepmen don’t do this,
Maintenance of complete
health and efficiency will be
helped by clean and adequate
living-quarters. Dogs will benefit
if a concrete run is provided
around the kennel. If it is found
that feet become splayed through
contact with the concrete, re-
place it with dry cinders, but if
this is done it will be necessary
to change the site of the kennel
regularly, and put down fresh
cinders each time. Either of
such runs will protect the animal
against worms and other internal
parasites.
The kennel itself should be
so designed as to provide pro-
tection against rain, wind and
sun. Many kennels do not mea-
sure up to these requirements.
Stockowners would be well
advised to have their animals
immunised' against distemper.
The outlay is trivial compared
with the value of the protection.
Farm Hint
“The Gully”: Simple way to
learn the height of a tree. Drive
a straight stick into the ground
till exactly 3ft. is above surface.
With a cord describe an arc with
a 3ft. radius on south side of
peg. When shadow of stick
touches edge of arc, drive a peg
at limit of shadow thrown by
tree. Measurement from peg to
butt equals height.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
The recent cyclone from the Uranian cycle has dis-
turbed the sequence to some extent, and the warm wave
of 1883 is now taking form a little late. The southern
rains of the main cycle were delayed, but seem now to be
coming in.
The Uranian cycle could give some rains to help the
other cycle, but the secondaries are as yet uncertain.
According to the Uranian cycle, some small rains are likely
during the Brisbane Show.


HUGE GOVT. RELEASES!! ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORGE DISPOSALS
EVERY ITEM A GENUINE BARGAIN ! NEVER AGAIN SUCH ! !
1
R.A.A.F. OUTER
FLYING SUITS
Sensational release: The
genuine heavy canvas
w’proof Outer Suits. A
“must” for all motor
cyclists, garageme n,
tractor drivers, etc.
Zip fitted. Fur lined
pockets. Not new but in
good, sound., perfect con-
dition. Cost Up to £l5.
\Te release a limited
supply at ONEY
Sli
Fins 5/- post.
EVERY SIZE.
FLYING
GOGGLES
B.A.F. Mark IV.
Brand new addi-'
tional night lenses.
Adjustable sun
visor. Box of spares.
Give Away Price.
25/-
Post
SET
3/6
“U.S. ARMY” RELEASE!
5000 genuine “Star” Razor Blades. The best you
can use. Available in packets of 100 blades only.
OUR GIVE AWAY PRICE—
-100 BLADES FOB ONLY £1
Post Free.
EX "NAVY"
K.D. TROUSERS
Brand new! with fall front.
Extra heavy quality. Ideal
work strides, aa /
Sacrifice at only Av/ J
Post 3/6. Up to 35in.
EX “NAVY” BLUE
DRILL WORK
TROUSERS
Just released. Brand new
and perfect. Heavy blue
drill. Naval work issue.
Sizes to 40in. waist. Our
big clearance
All sizes,
price only ....
Post 3/- PAIR
Ex “Navy” Blue
Drill Work Shirts
Super grade drill. Pull
cut. With collar and
pocket. Short sleeves.
“The Work Shirt you just
can’t wear out.” Brand
new! Huge savings on
"Y" NECK KHAKI
PULLOVERS
Army type. Braird new.
Heavy wool mixture, long
sleeves, full cut. Very
wafßi. Sizes to aa /#
lOin. waist. Only s£, / 0
Post 1/6 BACH
BUSH 808 THESE.
these at
only
Post, 3/- BACH
By Public Demand
LONG U'PANTS
EX-ARMY PURE FLAN-
NEL, SILVER GREY.
BRAND NEW AND PER-
FECT. All sizes. Stock
up now.
2 for 30/-
(Post 1/9.)
Ex “Air Force”
Knee Length U’pants
Heavy woollen -cotton mix-
‘ tnrc. Bran d new in wanted
size of 38in. Amazing
value these at ..........
2 pairs for £1
POST %/- A
BOOTS! BOOTS!
m
Ol
MAN
BOOTS FOR EVE
AT SENBIBE
PRICES.
Black Army type treble
soles with toe cap. Strorigly
made for tough
work. Special, pr.
Sizeb 6,7, 8,9, 10.
37/6
Black or Brown Army type,
no toe cap. Treble soles
with toe and heel plates.
Selected leathers.
Bargain, pr. Sizes
6,7, 8,9, 10.
D* piililCOt
42/6
Elastic Side Boots. Special purchase of
Australia’s best make. In Brown or
Black. Well made from best leathers.
Sizes from s’s to 10’s. Our price only
Post 3/-
AIR FORCE type
SHOES
(as illustrated)
“We sell thousands of pairs.*’
Smart, Attractive Shoes
made from highest grade
leathers. Plain caps. Good
wide last. Sizes from s’s to
10’s, including i-sizes.
BARGAIN AX ONLY
49/6 pr.
LIMIT OF 3 PUS,
Post 3/6 pr.
SPECIAL! SPECIAL!!
For Boys and Young Men.
100 ONLY BRAND NEW
2-PIECB D/B
DONEGAL SUITS!
as illustrated.
Direct purchase saves you
pounds. Well made from
finest quality Donegal
tweed. Modern cut. Smart
finish. Fit youths up to
14-13 years. In sizes 14
and 13 only.
WORTH AT LEAST £l3/10/-
OIIR VERY SPECIAL OFFER
ONLV
69/6
m
m
EX DISPOSALS
PYJAMA COATS
Heavy quality suede
finish. Full, roomy
fcut. Sizes M—OS.
You’ll want some of
these at only
5/- en.
Post 1/6
WORK SOCKS
Army type h’ weight
Khaki, all sizes.
4 prs. for £1
Post i/e
“We sell thousands”
HUGE DEAL IN
WORK OVERALLS
DIRECT FROM FACTORY
500 PRS. FAR BELOW COST!
STURDY WHITE
COMBS. For Garage-
men, Painters, etc.
Double sewn seams
reinforced at strain
points. Worth at
least 45/- pair.
SUPER SPECIAE AT
35/- pr.
Sizes 4’s to B’s.
Post 2/6
QUALITY BLUE
COMBS. F a m o u s
make at give-away
price. Double sewn
seams reinforced at
strain points. Usual
price 49/6. OU li
SPECIAL OFFER
39/6 pr.
Sizes 4's to B’s.
Post 2/6
BEUE 818 & BRACE OVEBAEIfS. Save on
these. Worth at least 35/-. Sizes 4’s np /
to B’s. Now only, pair A 3/ "
EIMIT of 3 prs. on this special offer.
ARMY
HAVERSACKS
Respirator side haver-
sacks. Perfect con-
dition. Complete with
strap. ONCY
5/11 e«-
Post 2/-
ARMY
SHORT GAITERS
NOT MANY OF
THESE, SO HUBBY.
IN GOOD SOUND
CONDITION. ONLY
4/6 pr.
Post 1/6
Precision Trough Type COMPASS
COST APPROXIMATELY £6 Mf
Yours for the amazing price of O I m
This precision trough type Compass has _5
degrees deflection pins or minus. Bearing is
synthetic sapphire. Locking device prevents
injury in transit. Was used as a Master Com-
pass by the Army, AND IS THEREFORE
DEADLY ACCURATE. Cost approximately
£6 to produce. Our price 6/-, x>ost free. Two-
thirds actual size shown.
r
1s&
3k
~iX)
Pi>
500
ONLY
BRAND NEW IMPORTED
Dark grey 50%, wool 50”/
Cotton. Size 60 x 80.
Wonderful value at only
2 for 35/-
Post 4/6
*
I LIGHTER AND CIG. CASE SPECIAL
NEW “EEFORM-
ETTE” Single action
Imported Austrian
LIGHTER.
Precision - built Im-
ported CIG. CASE—
Double Pack —heavy
silverplated.
65/- value.
2 for 17/6
POST FREE
Pai
OIL
PAINT
deac/y
Mixed
fill
OIL PAINT
PAINT!
PAINT!
Our own ‘‘Supa-kote,’' ready mixed,
guaranteed genuine heavy oil base,
full bodied high gloss finish. For
all inside or outside work. Thou-
sands of gallons sold throughout
Australia. Your money re-
funded if not completely
satisfied.
YOUR COEQR IS HERB:
• CREAM
• WHITE
• MID. & EIGHT GREEN
• EGT, MID. & DK. STONE
• CHOCOEATE
• ROOFING RED
• FRENCH GREY
4 GAL. DRUMS
£5
Add 4/6 cartage to rail.
SATISFACTION IN EVERY
BRUSHFUE.”
WATERPROOF MARQUEE
OUR SUPER SPECIAL, OFFER !
II
GENUINE
“BIRKMYRE”
ROOF
With 802. Puck Walls.
10x10.. £32/10/-
12 x 12 . . £39/10/-
14 x 14 . . £44/10/-
15 x 15 . . £49/17/6
All Marquees have 6ft. Walls,
9ft. Centre Pole, complete
with all ropes, telescopic
Side poles, STEEL PEGS, etc.
Add 3/6 cartage to rail.
Packed in own container
ready to erect.
Genuine l5oz.
“HOODPRUFE”
Brown Top with 8<u. 1> licit
Walls.
10x10 . . £28/10/-
12x12.. £32/10/-
14x14 . . £39/10/-
15 x 15 . . £45/-/-
refunded if
vision. We
you lay-by
guarantee unconditionally every Marquee. Your money cheerfully
not completely satisfied. All our tents are made under strict super-
are Sydney’s leading suppliers of high-quality camp gear. We suggest
now for Xmas. etc.
"JAPARA CAR COVERS"
Made from R.A.A.F. Japara Target Sheets,
Light, yet extra durable. Fully eyeletted,
double sewn. All eyelets are re-inforced.
HUGE SAVINGS! TWO SIZES TO FIT
ANY CAB
;xi2
£5l
18 x 13
£6i
Po*t V-
DON’T MISS ONE OF THESE!
ARMY HAMMERS
240 z. CLAW HAMMERS!
NEW!
POST FREE.
‘U.S.A.” “PLUMB” 4lb. NAPPING
HAMMERS! NEW!
15/-
POST FREE.
A.W.A.S. SKIRTS
(as illustrated)
supertine Khaki
Worsted. Brand
new. Worth pounds.
Size 26in. only.
RUSH THESE AT
ONLY
£1 ecs-
Post frpe.
A.W.A.S. Khaki
Drill Shorts
Highest grade,
brand new, perfect!
In sizes 21. 25, 26,,
29, 31, 34. Amazing
value ONLY
10/- pr.
Post free.
"LOOK AT THESE!
Ex Disposals I
Brand new women’s
all-wool CARDIGANS.
SW, W, & OS,
In Maroon, Sky
Blue, Navy,
Grey, Brown.
Smart, att rae-
tive. O V
PRICE ONLY
U
34/6 ea
Post 2/-
Linen
Special!
Sheets,
Pillow-
Tea-
towels
L pair snow white Heavy Bleached
Quality. Hemmed D/B SHEELS,
SO x 90; ~,, T
f Snow white “Homsewxte PILLOXV -
CASES. Extra large. High quality,
t GENUINE HEAVY, IRISH LIN EN
imported TEA-TOM ELS.
borders. (Unhemmed.) Good big
sizes.
£6/10/- value for the lot.
Post 3/6. One hot to each customer.
A.W.A.S.
GLOVES
m
NEW ! PERFECT •! ! SMART !! !
Nigger Brown NAPPA. GLOVES. Finest
of quality. Worth at least 30/- vA /
pair. Post free. Sizes 6, (if, Or- '*/ *
ARMY TOWELS
rust released!!! The genuine
irtlcle. Brown and white with blue
tripes. Heavy quality, absorbent,
i’amous maker made these for our
Jefence Services. RELEASED FOR
itJICK SALE AT
2 for 17/6
Post 3/-
HUGE
PURCHASE ! !
Ex Army
STORMPROOF
Candle
Lanterns
Brand new. Worth
£5
£1
Pack’g & post free.
n
dsf
Surp/us ofcpos&/s
shres p*y- Ltd.,
429 P/TTST cm* CAMPBELL sr
SYDNEY MA7208
Goods to Your
Satisfaction —or
money Refunded
n


THE UNIT OF ENERGY ”
i
BATTERIES
MBM
f •%* , , . i .(
i f i .<1 tM ji -> , |/
S , -m ‘ i>’ irJ
ita m # mm< .
H'-.WftVif'' !-.. . •
mmm
mmamsi
r
ilii
tnr*
wl
w
fl
mm
*:■ : :!
c-
-£:?. fes ri
• ••
■ "
, , v
ii • ii, -
*■ , .'i <-p! fy
" -i
•; • * I*-
* ;,. . •> .
> - -
• L - {**-
‘ r, -. t ‘-1.-
»: s *r-?K
•m;
•iS : :k
i
’’ I - ' '•. *■ v
s! j : illU<, ; i
• .-f- v ", ; >.
-i-- .; ! - • m
B ifjllßiil
. ii I Wm •
n•, . . ,
V v :v ; . 'Sis*»i
, * !. ■. \> aE pi
), 1 . 'tL ~ >,?4
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR. TRUCK. TRACTOR.
RADIO. LAUNCH.
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER. ETC.
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
IS6 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE*
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone; MAG 188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones; 86565, 84448
