

THE
g
g
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO •
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY •
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
ALL THE BEST IN BLACK-AND-WHITE
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3871
Wednesday, April 21, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
ONLY BIRD-CALLS DISTURB THE PEACE OF LOCH-AN-EILEIN CASTLE
THE pageant of Scotland’s history is nowhere better epitomised _ than in
the beautiful or. sometimes forbidding, rums of a castle r»smg from
waters of a Highland loch. One of the hnest examples m is
Loch-an-Eilein. an island castle in a secluded lake near Aviemoie
valley of the Spey. .
In the 14th century this was the territory of a turbulent medic’ va l
Alexander Stuart, illegitimate son of King RobCTt I ; h» Wes
of Buchan Earl of Ross. Lord ol Badenoch—but bettei known as the vvoi
o Badenoch-Scourge of the North. From his impregnable fortress on
Loch-an-Eilein he ruled the Badenoch territory and Spey side with a brutality
and unscrupSousnMS which made him feared far beyond lus immediate
neighbourhood. His deeds were frequently dark and drastic and on
occasion, in the year 1390, he defied theSishopofMoray mg jjc
r'lthnHnl and half the town ot Elgin. He descended upon me low
what were described as his “wyld wykked f muSSms
with the Bishop, who had previously excommunicated him for his murderou
Loch-an-Eilein’s turbulent days have long been forgotten and I
chief claim to fame is the fact that one of its turrets is last 4?£
&££**£ i2r n
shore of the lake rise the lo»er slopes of the Tom^'of
mass in Britain with six peaks over 4,000 feet which are the home ot
ptarmigan and the golden eagle.


WIN SUCCESS IN 1954
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
.1 Jresscutting/ Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith ./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature. Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; U 9 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 251 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S:B;85 A) AGE. .. .....
The Red Page
DE LA MARE ESSAYS
Walter de la Mare’s critical essays in
Private View (Faber) have one distinct
advantage over the general run of
criticism in that they are written in
beautiful prose ; and one disadvantage
in that, written to fill a given space in
the London or New York “Times,” they
are mostly ..very short, so that you do
not get the definitive statement as from
such long-thinkers as T. S. Eliot, but an
“impression,” a passing thought—only
the thoughts of De la Mare, if
sometimes incomplete, come from too
acute and sensitive a mind ever to
be insignificant.
On W H. Davies, for instance, he
writes gracefully, appreciatively, and
rather shallowly. He reviews two little
books, Foliage and Child Lovers,
rightly observes that Davies “spends a
little superfluous pity on ‘poor kings’,”
excellently remarks that his art is “simply
second nature,” notes the freshness and
spontaneity, then leaves the reader
wondering how much of Davies the
critic has really read, and with how much
depth of understanding, for he makes
no mention of the profound humanity
which, dramatised in the persons of
tramps in doss-houses and under bridges
and such vital old ladies as Mary Price
(who triumphed so ruthlessly after being
“ruined” in her childhood), is so import-
ant an element in the greatness of a
lyrist too often thought of only as a
singer of cows and birds.
De la Mare .is excellent on Tennyson’s
merits as a Nature-poet, yet at the same
time misleading; for, though he reminds
us of the perfection of
But such a tide as moving seems asleep.
Too full for sound and foam,
When that which drew from out the
boundless deep
Turns again home,
there is little mention of the verbal music
which so runs in and around Tennyson’s
Nature as pretty well to smother it in
elegant artifice. Neither is there any
mention of “Ulysses,” which, for human
feeling and resolution of mind, is surely
Tennyson’s high-tide.
Perhaps poetry is a more contentious
subject than prose, or harder to encom-
pass in the short review; for if one finds
De la Mare’s attack on Yeats justified
in a sense, but too acid—it was written
at a time when anti-Irish feeling ran high
in England—one certainly has nothing
but an awed admiration for his critique
of Beatrix Potter, author of the famous
“Peter Rabbit” booklets ; and, on a more
august level, he is admirable again in
his appreciation of the rare “strength of
personality” pervading the novels of
Conrad. '■
One of the best of the essays is on
Chekhov ; and an Australian reader must
find particular interest, and some hope
for our own literature, in his liking for
the spaciousness of the Russian story—
to be found of course in Tolstoy and
Turgenev as well as in Chekhov:
It is the richness and abundance, the
sense of these dark, immense, sea-like spaces
and interlinked horizons, the extremes of
culture and primitiveness, of rapture and
misery as of landscape and weather, and
the swarming variety of character, caste,
and kind that cannot but astonish the
English reader of these letters It brings
home to us a rather restricted insularity,
even in our literature, that narrowly verges
on the parochial.... What wonder that our
younger novelists, as Henry James declared
(though he spared little room for the
Russians), so intemperately squeeze out
the juices of their insignificant tangerines?
London, it is true, is a large place;
England, in parts, a peerless lovely; the
Empire reflects the journey of the sun. But
for two solid months, in his leather coat,
his sodden felt boots, with his precious
coffee and unopened bottle of brandy,
Chekhov could gallop from station on to
station, and however uncouth were his
fellow-creatures, they were his own country-
men. He was in Russia; still at home.
An appreciation of Hardy’s The
Dynasts is another outstanding item;
also a very just reproof to Thackeray for
being too moralistic towards the charac-
ters of his own creation. Samuel Butler,
Defoe, Flecker, Suckling and—surpris-
ingly—John D. Rockefeller are some of
the other authors dealt with.
A Magistrate in Burma
Author of many books about early
travellers in the east, Maurice Collis
records some of his own travels in his
new book. Into Hidden Burma; an
Autobiography (Faber).
The book lacks the color and excite-
ment of his historical canvases ; but it is
extraordinarily interesting for its facts
about the problems-of-conscience of a
British official in Burma, and his clashes
with his superiors and the community.
His first clash comes in England after
World War I when, seeking early de-
mobilisation in order to return to service
in Burma, he crosses the bows of the
head of the military department of the
India Office by privately approaching at
dinner the permanent Under-secretary-of-
State for India, whose son had been a
friend of his at Oxford. There is also
a nostalgic view of the whirl of London
entertainments turned on for young
returned officers at that time, and a
record of Collis’s efforts to become a poet
of the rapidly-darkening Celtic Twilight.
Collis had a fastidious dislike of those
officials who cold-shouldered the Burmese
and ostracised Englishmen married to
Burmese women. In an assistant-com-
missioner, commissioner and magistrate,
this was not calculated to smooth his
official path at a time when a Lieutenant-
Governor could say to an English scholar,
married to a Burmese, that he was “a
pro-Burman”: —
Though derogatory, the term bad not
quite the force of “pro-Boer” during the
South African War, which amounted
almost to a charge of treachery.
But his worst problems came when he
was appointed senior magistrate at
Rangoon, and had to hand out the law
evenly between British and Burmese. He
let go five British drivers who had killed
or maimed Indians because “there was
no negligence,” and the Indians accepted
the findings as just; but when, in freeing
a British master whose servant had
jumped through a window when the
master was attempting to secure a con-
fession of theft, Collis criticised the
master’s “sentiment of humanity,” his
superiors considered the remarks un-
called-for. When he let-off an Indian
agitator with ten days’ imprisonment
after himself calling evidence that would
lessen the charge of sedition, it was said
that he showed a partiality for the
accused, and even that the accused was an
old school-friend. And when he sen-
tenced a lieutenant of a Scottish regi-
ment, who had driven a car into one
containing two Burmese women, and
seriously injured them, to three months’
imprisonment, the High Court cancelled
the imprisonment, but increased the fine
to a maximum, on the grounds that
imprisonment would mean that the
lieutenant would be cashiered.
The indignation of the Army and the
business-community against Collis was
shared by Collis’s superior, and the act-
ing-Governor, though of opinion that
Collis had acted correctly, felt it neces-
sary to transfer him to the higher post of
Excise Commissioner. . .
All this he tells very temperately, be-
tween excursions into beautiful old
palaces, and holidays in London and the
Paris that was celebrating loyce’s
Ulysses. Geoffrey Faber’s offer to him
of a partnership at the time he was buy-
ing out Faber and Gwyer, and stories of
searches for old Burmese and Chinese
pieces for his collection, which must be
considerable —notably the story of the
diver who brought up a weed-encrusted
plate which turned out to be a magnifi-
cent example of celadon-ware.
But the best story in the book is that
of the Burmese delegation’s visit to Lon-
don in 1931, and how Collis took three
of them around Ireland, and in Dublin
introduced them to “A.E.” (George
Russell) the celebrated poet and mystic;
how that great talker, or rather mono-
loguist, thought all Orientals were Hindu
metaphysicians, not realising that the
Burmese would not be even faintly in-
terested in the niceties of India’s Upani-
shads or the Vedanta, until one of the
Burmese “began to hold forth on nothing
in particular and at great length, despite
A.E.’s attempts to break into the
discussion.”
Douglas Fairbanks
From the biography of Douglas Fair-
banks, The Fourth Musketeer by Ralph
Hancock and Letitia Fairbanks (Peter
Davies), we learn that his father was
Jewish, H. Charles Ulman, of a family
of Pennsylvania millowners. Ulman
fought as a captain in the civil war, and,
after being wounded, was put in charge
of reserves guarding the White House,
where he met Lincoln. After the war he
returned to his law practice; he founded
and became president of the United States
Law Association ; and, as head of the firm
of Ulman, Gazzam and Remington, was
one of the most prominent lawyers in
New York.
One of Ulman’s best clients was John
Fairbanks, plantation and sugar-mill
owner of New Orleans. When Fairbanks
died young, Ulman had to manage the
affairs of his wife Ella and son John;
she married a heavy drinker, and after
bearing him a son, asked Ulman to get
her a divorce. Ulman secured the divorce,
and married Ella himself. In those days
respectable lawyers had to do such
things more slowly if they did them at
all, and Ulman gave up his New York
practice to go out to Denver and finance
goldmines.
To the “great braggart city, brown
and treeless, upon a treeless plain” he
took his wife and her son Jack Fairbanks,
leaving the son of her second marriage
to the care of an aunt. In 1882, a year
after their arrival in Denver, their first
son, Robert, was bom; and, in 1883,
Douglas.
Douglas worried his mother by never
smiling, and people were beginning to
think him backward, until one day he fell
from the roof on to his head, showing his
brother how to fly. When he came-to
his mother explained that he had fallen
off the roof. It amused him; for the
first time in his life, he laughed.
In the harsh Denver surroundings the
boys grew up strong and healthy enough
to incense a neighboring virago into the
brandishing of sticks. She had a grip on
young Douglas and was just about to
bash him across the face with her batten
when an old prospector who had be-
friended the boys brought his mule-whip
down on her shoulders, and with repeated
lashings forced her to let go: this is
thought to have been the inspiration of
Fairbanks’s whip-tricks in “The Son of
Zorro,” many years later, for which he
imported an Australian to give him
lessons.
By 1888, when Douglas was five, his
father’s mining ventures collapsed, and
Ulman went away as Republican cam-
paign-speaker for Benjamin Harrison.
He sent a few cheques and letters, but
did not return to his family. By Christ-
mas of 1888 his wife was penniless. She
secured a divorce, resumed the name of
Fairbanks, and took in boarders; step-
brother Jack becoming an office-boy in a
wholesale grocery.
His mother’s sole influence at this
time is held responsible for two remark-
able things; —
Douglas was never known to have told
a risqu6 story in mixed company and rarely
even in a stag group;
and: —-
Douglas Fairbanks never touched a glass
of anything stronger than an occasional
sherry, and even that not until middle life.
His temperance began on the day he
met his father unexpectedly in Denver,
where he had returned on business for
a brief visit. Ulman, noticeably old,
shabby, and with frayed cuffs, was
touched by his son’s pleasure, took him
into a bar, bought him a sarsaparilla and,
mellowed himself by a few stronger
drinks, agreed to visit the mother. He
talked for a while with his former wife,
but soon went away, never again to
return, and died poor in 1915. But after
his visit the mother, hearing that Doug-
las had been in a bar, hurried him down
to the W.C.T.U., where, aged 12, he
signed the pledge.
But Douglas was puzzled throughout
his life by his father’s dereliction ; he
had admired him so much, and especi-
ally for his command of gesture and of
period and his ability to quote Shakspeare
by the yard. They were the best part of
his inheritance from his father, and the
cause why, in his teens, he took leading
parts in Denver amateur shows. Warde,
a gifted . American actor-manager, saw
him at one of these shows and said,
“That dark-haired youngster has more
vigor than virtuosity,”
and this was proved to Warde when he
next came to act in Denver, and Douglas
called on him: —
One could hardly expect Douglas to spend
much time arguing with the doorman at
Elitch’s over a little matter like entrance to
the star’s dressing-room. A low wall in
the alley, a fire-escape, and a window were
the simple hurdles, and when Warde
returned to his dressingroom after the last
act, Douglas was there to greet him.
By the time Douglas Fairbanks left
Warde had broken his rule of not hiring
anyone who had not been a year on the
professional stage and promised the six-
teen-year-old boy that if he happened to
be in New York next year he would find
him a place in his company. So it was
arranged that Robert should go on to a
big electrical engineering job in Utah,
Douglas and his mother should go to
New York, and Jack should stay in
Denver and send money.
In New York, in 1900, Mr. Warde
was as good as his word; he signed Fair-
banks on for bit parts ; and took him on
tour (Warde being a touring, not a Broad-
way, actor) as Florio in “The Duke’s
Jester,” and as Cassio and Laertes, the
actor booked for these parts having
fallen ill. Laertes was thus his first
big chance, but the Duluth critic was not
co-operative:
Mr. Warde’s supporting company was
bad but worst, of all was Douglas Fairbanks
as Laertes.
At the end of the year, Fairbanks
enrolled at Harvard, and stayed there
almost five months, not so much for the
Latin, French and English courses he was
taking as because of the university’s
excellent gymnasium. With two lads he
met thfere, he then took ship, as cattleboat
steward, for Europe (Ezra Pound got
there the same way). The two com-
panions returned to America a fortnight
later, but Fairbanks worked on the Lon-
don docks, mixed mortar, carried hods,
worked his way to Belgium, worked his
way about France, and stayed a while in
Paris as a member of a crew repairing
a Seine bridge. There he learned the
language with the “bad French and bour-
geois gestures” he picked up from the fore-
man, who took a fancy to him and intro-
duced him to his family ; and later on he
could convulse Chaplin with laughter
with his imitation of his old French
friend:
Maurice Chevalier once said Doug’s copy
was better than the original.
He always had a flair for imitation and
showing-off; he was proud of it; if he
was to meet experts, he would bone-up
on their subjects and discourse to them
brilliantly, if superficially—it is an actor’s
(and a reviewer’s) necessity—and he took
it into life with him when, on his return
from that first visit to Europe, he could
find no work on the stage: he dressed the
part of a successful stockbroker and went
to work in the order department of a
Wall-street brokerage house, covering his
ignorance of the trade with two phrases,
“Quite so, quite so”; and “What we
need is more efficiency.” He left this
employment (which had cost him his
savings in impressive clothes) and took
a job in a hardware store, but here the
customers found him out quickly. Fin-
ally, he got a minor stage role and made
his Broadway debut in February, 1902.
This play closed after 22 performances,
and his next play ran for 21 perform-
ances ; then he got a part in “Mrs. Jack”
and went on tour with it. His fondness
for practical jokes and impromptu stage-
business, such as hiding an eight-pound
shot in the hat the hero was to pick up
and put on as he made his exit, got Fair-
banks a dressing-down on this tour, and
forced his resignation. He got a job in
a law office, and for three months studied
law; but finding, as the biography
shrewdly observes, that he could not
become a famous lawyer, swaying juries
with his persuasive smile, by Christmas,
he decided to tour the Orient, working his
way, beginning with a visit to London to
sell the patent rights of an electric switch.
But in London, the biography hints,
he met a beautiful woman who put the
Orient right out of his head, and he
returned to New York only when his cash
ran out. Here he was taken up by William
A. Brady, who made fortunes out of
organising prize-fights and lost them on
Broadway; Brady felt that Fairbanks
would make a star provided he was cast
in “juvenile comedy leads.” The first
success, “As Ye Sow,” written by a
clergyman, and featuring Fairbanks as
a jack-of-ali trades, ran a month in New
York, and went all over the country for
a season; the second, “The Man of the
Hour,” ran 479 performances. While it
was playing, Gladys Mary Smith made
her Broadway debut in “The Warrens of
Virginia,” changing her name to Mary,
Pickford.
Now on the way to success, Fairbanks
married the eldest daughter of “Cotton
King” Sully, on the understanding that
he would go into the soap business his
father-in-law secured for him, and stay
there. But a year later his father-in-law’s
fortune was wiped-out, and Fairbanks
returned to acting. From here on it was
((Continued on page 35)


For winter warmth and fleecy comfort . . .
■TRUTH IN advertising;
nthony Horderns
ĝ
SNOW BOOTS in Leather and Textured Suede
Whether you want Snow Boots for relaxing in ... or working in you can be
assured of the best if you choose a pair from ANTHONY HORDERNS
extensive collection. Only the best, woolly fleeces (only the best of the clip)
line our boots. Fleeces that keep your feet degrees warmer than the weather
itself .... but at the same time allow your feet to breathe, to move and relax.
Our Snow Boots include textured suedes, fine leathers and warm woolly
checks in both zipper or lace-up styles. Come, see these in our George Street
shoe department, or, if you are a country client, mail your order from this
wide range.
Tan leather boot has easy zip fastening and
stout leather soles. Fully wool lined. In full
and half sizes, they’re priced at 79/6 pair.
Tan willow or black calf snow boot is fully
wool lined and has genuine welted leather
soles. Full, half sizes, wide fittings. £5/2/- pr.
m
i:
i
mm
Tan or black hide snow boots has fully sewn
and standard screwed soles. Fully wool lined.
Fit full and half sizes. Priced at 76/6 pair.
Two hole derby tie boots in tan hide have
stout flex sewn soles and soft warm wool lining.
To fit full and half sizes, priced at 79/6 pair.
Men’s Shoes, Ground Floor, George Street. Box 2712, G.P.0., Sydney. Phone M 2401
Soft warm lambskin lines this snow boot.
Brown sruede uppers and pump leather soles.
Quick, easy to fasten zipper opening. Full,
half sizes, 70/-.
■
&
H
Felt zipper boots, have felt and leather soles.
Felt lined. Sizes 5 to 11. priced at 27/6 pair.
Also available with foam rubber soles. Priced
at 31/6.
STORE
OPENS
8.30 a. nu
DAILY
CLOTHING HOSPITAL
Here is one of our most appreciated services.
Our famous Clothing Hospital will undertake
repairs, invisible mending, alterations, re-
fitting, re-lining, etc., for both men s and
women’s clothing. Moderate charges. Also,
we have a service where we undertake all
manner of reconditioning of leather coats ant *
jackets. Clothing Hospital, Ground Floor,
George Street.
A TRUTH m ADVERTISING'
Antbony Horderns;
a


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 21, 1954
Vol. 75—No. 3871
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J, Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
MOSCOW ON TRIAL
The conversion of Comrade Vladimir Mikhailovich
Petrov to the principles of Western democracy and his
handing-over of material which he acquired in his
office as Third Secretary-Consul and —allegedly—
agent of the M.V.D. seems to have achieved what
earnest Australians have been failing to achieve for
the past 30 years. It has produced a warm national
interest in the question of whether Russian espionage
operates here.
To suggest that there was a spy-ring in Australia
and to express belief that certain Australians might be
acting within it as the agents of the U.S.S.R. has
always been to court abuse and to acquire the label
“Red-baiter” or “witch-hunter.”
The difficulty has always been not to secure some
evidence but to secure evidence arresting enough to
grip the Government and public fancy and conclusive
enough to pin the guilt decisively on the Soviet Govern-
ment, as was done in the Gouzenko inquiry in Canada
and the Rosenberg trials in the United States. This
has been so in the face of a mass of circumstantial and
some specific testimony.
Proof was produced in Perth in June, 1940, that
the local Communist party was acting under the orders
of the Comintern, then seated in Hitler-controlled
Vienna, and sending abroad information about civil
defence and military mobilisation. But even though
the Communist party was banned immediately and
remained banned until 1943, when Dr. Evatt allowed it
to re-establish itself, public opinion was not stirred
and the law was lenient. The criminals got off with
four months’ jail, and the employment of one later in
the C.5.1.R.0. in a scientific branch concerned with
aeroplane-glues caused no more public excitement than
the fact that at a 1949 Victorian royal commission on
Communism a man who went on a mission to Moscow
in 1938 swore that he had found himself carrying the
plans of an Australian anti-mine device to the Kremlin.
The revelation in 1951 that the Communist party had
succeeded in filching the secret text of a draft trade-
treaty with the United States out of the confidential
files of the External Affairs Department equally pro-
duced no real public reaction.
The Labor movement especially has proved hard
to convince, and until recently has made little effort
to oust Communism from the unions or even the
A.L.P. movement. In 1941, after the Ratliff-Thomas
plot, organised by members of the N. S. Wales branch
of the Communist party, to sabotage war factories had
come to light, Communist union-secretaries were
allowed to form the majority of the Prime Minister’s
Trade-union Advisory Panel in 1943. A leading Com-
munist official was appointed to the Stevedoring Board
on a Government salary. There was open co-operation
between industrial Labor and the Communists in the
Fourteen-points Referendum campaign of 1944. These
things showed how little Labor seemed to believe
that there was subversive connivance between Aus-
tralian Communism and the Russian authorities. In
the face of all the evidence that could be produced
Mr. E. J. Ward, then Minister for External Territories
and Transport, was prepared to say on September 15,
1949 ( Hansard, p. 292): “I do not share the opinion
of some honorable members that there is a real menace
of Communism in this country.” Two years before
that Mr. Holloway, another Labor Minister, had said
that if he were to be drawn into a philosophical dis-
cussion he would say that every aim of the Communist
movement throughout the world was based on the
teachings of Christ, while even Mr. Chifley {Hansard,
Vol. 181, p. 44) announced that “the Communist party
was a political organisation carrying on its activities
in a perfectly legal way.”
Labor obviously had not changed its mind in
recent years, and lent itself to vigorous defence of the
Communist party’s right to exist when threatened by
the Communist-party Dissolution Bill —a defence which
was carried successfully to the High Court and to the
electorate with great vigor by Dr. Evatt himself.
The whole argument for the Communist party and
its right to organise depends on the innocence or
otherwise of the actions of the Kremlin in Australia;
for the Communist party, whatever its associations
with Moscow, is clearly the advocate and mouthpiece
of Moscow.
The opportunity now seems to have come to
test the position. It has come at an awkward time of
political turmoil when, unless great care is exercised,
the whole matter could become an election-campaign
issue, which is the last thing it should be allowed to be
by either party.
Mr. Menzies has set an example in putting the
matter on a high national level above partyism, and
it should be kept there. Every effort should be made
to assure that the investigation is coldly judicial, and
that its results are conclusive beyond doubt in a way
that cannot be questioned by the most confirmed
sceptic.
The Press could help in this by dropping the
gossipy sensationalism with which it has so far
clothed its reports, and by avoiding anticipation of the
evidence which Security is supposed to have and about
which the Sydney papers pretend to be fully informed.
In a word, the incident is too serious interna-
tionally to be treated as political; the accusations
against individual Australians involved may have
consequences too far-reaching to permit prejudgment
or the generation of prejudice. The Government is
wise, in the atmosphere which exists, in issuing the
royal commission promptly so that the whole matter
can become sub judice and subject to the law of
contempt as quickly as possible.
Those Margins
As May draws near, bringing the necessity for party-
leaders to declare themselves on policy, it becomes
more and more apparent that Dr. Evatt will attempt to
make the Arbitration Court’s decision on margins a
main issue of the election-campaign. Last week, after
a chat with officials of the A.C.T.U., he said that if
his party became the Government on May 29 it would
“take legislative and administrative action on wage-
margins,” He said further that the political and
industrial wings of the A.L.P. were in complete agree-
ment on the necessity for increasing margins, “having
regard to the greatly reduced purchasing-value of
money over the past few years.”
Although any promise by the astute doctor must
be examined very closely to see if it means exactly
what his audience thinks it means, there is no denying
that a promise to raise margins may well pay dividends,
provided he can convince a sufficient number of the
people of three things—
(l) that he sincerely intends to do something
about it,
(2) that he can do something about it, and
(3) that whatever he does will be effective.
The answer to the first point is simple enough.
The Doc. obviously does intend to take action if he
wins the election. Sincerity doesn’t necessarily come
into it, though possibly the Leader of the Opposition
has untouched reserves of that commodity ; the trade-
union section of “Labor” will see to it that he, like
every other “Labor” Prime Minister, toes the line.
On past experience the reference to complete agree-
ment means that the political wing, as represented by
Dr. Evatt, has agreed to carry out the instructions of
the industrial wing, as represented by the A.C.T.U.
This really answers the second proposition, too.
It is not so much a matter of “Can he do it?” If he
becomes Prime Minister he will simply have to do
something about it; his back-seat drivers will see to
that. Which brings us to the third and crucial point—
will his action be effective? Can he secure for the
skilled workers marginal increases which will be real
increases and not merely the illusory gains conferred by
the spurious basic-wage adjustments of the last few
years?
Evatt promises “legislative and administrative
action,” and will give the details in his policy-speech
on May 6, so it is evident that the plan is already made
and the bait prepared. Will it be swallowed? That
depends on the intelligence and understanding of those
to whom he is making his appeal for support and these
are, in general, the more highly-skilled wage- and
salary-earners: those with special qualifications and
years of training and experience. The weekly pay-rates
of this group are still higher than those of the average
worker, but proportionately less so than in pre-war
years. Indeed, when overtime and penalty-rates are
considered, the pay-envelope of many skilled workers
is lighter than those of the unskilled.
If Evatt is to win back the many votes which this
class of elector has obviously given to Menzies at the
last two elections, he must convince them that he can
remedy this disparity, which has been largely caused
by the conscious policy of his own party.
When the Arbitration Court gave its decision on
margins last February it admitted that the real value
of margins in relation to the basic wage had decreased
since 1947, but remarked that although the unions had
based their claim substantially on the submission that
the relative marginal remuneration for skilled work
above that for unskilled work had diminished,
the unions had, also sought a proportionate
increase of the minimum margins even of the least
skilled er unskiUed employees.
Moreover, the court commented that “not incon-
siderable margins” already existed “for classifications
which covered unskilled work or work involving very
little skill.”
Instancing the 40-hour week, the extension of
paid annual leave and the increase in penalty-rates as
further factors in bringing the condition of the unskilled
closer to that of the skilled, the court said.
Unless there is a compensatory rise in produc-
tivity in real terms it is apparent that, generally
speaking, a levelling-up of minimum living standards
must Involve some levelling-down of higher standards.
That is a proposition which is rather difficult to
refute, and in some of the bigger unions whose member-
ship is comprised of tradesmen and process-workers
of varying degrees of skill and experience it is likely to
make those in the higher grades of skill begin to wonder
whether their union can any longer adequately look
after their particular interests as well as those of the
far greater number in less-skilled grades.
Nothing Dr. Evatt has said —or that the trade-
union movement has said—holds out any hope to the
skilled that a change of Government will in any way
improve their position relative to the unskilled. Rather
is it the reverse. “Labor” —and that means the Doc.,
too —has been shedding a lot of crocodile-tears about
the plight of the skilled man, but what it is really
aiming at is a higher wage all round.
Either through ignorance or opportunism both
Evatt and his party overlook the fact that all they
can gain that way is a higher nominal wage, without
any gain at all in real wages and with a further paring-
down of the value of margins for skill.
"Good-bye, Mr. Chipsky"
“D.E.”: What manner of man is this Petrov, who, by
bolting from the Soviet Embassy when his successor
was arriving, and by asking for asylum in Australia,
has given Canberra the thrill of its life? According
to one account, he is “short and dark,” is “quick to
smile” and “was often seen drinking in hotel bars.”
Let this description be amplified by a man who has
made a study of minor diplomats, and who writes for
the most part in the third person. Call him “Charles”:
Petrov was plump and swarthy, careless of manners,
certainly not the kind of person that an old-style diplo-
mat could ever have felt at home with. Nor did
Charles, yet he envied the man’s animal vitality and
impassioned voice. Once on the street a little girl pre-
sented Petrov with a bunch of flowers. Petrov picked
up the child in his arms and kissed her.
Petrov, plump and clumsy, yet curiously notable,
as always, came threading his way amongst the tables.
He pulled out a handkerchief and began mopping his
forehead. “Can you guess where I was at seventeen?
In a military hospital—already I was wounded in
battle. My father used to beat us when we were young.
One day at last I beat him. They killed him after the
Revolution —he was late at the station and the train
had gone. But I hated him. And now —just to make
things equal—my son hates me. He is a model: he
does not smoke or drink or have women. You can-
not even make him laugh. When I laugh he probably
reports it to the secret police . . .
“Look ... do you see that man out there standing
against the lamp-post pretending to read a newspaper?
That man is thrilled to know I ana meeting you here.”
He wanted me [Charles] to go track to his hotel
afterwards for a drink. He’d drunk a little too much
himself. He was talking in rather a wild way. Of
course I didn’t go. It’s hard to give a reason, except
one’s general suspicion of these fellows. Their code’s
different; therefore, you have to be on your guard all
the time. A strange thing, diplomacy, nowadays—full
of novelties. f
The telephone rang. Charles heard and recognised
the voice. “It is I, Petrov. I would like, if I may,
to see you for a few minutes. What is the number
of your room?”
Suppose Petrov were not alone. One heard fantastic
stories of what these people were capable of
Anyhow, he opened the door, and Petrov was alone.
Petrov walked across the room and pulled the
blinds slightly aside at one of the windows.
Charles did not like this. “What are you looking
for?” he asked rather sharply.
“To verify what I had already guessed. One cannot
go anywhere without someone watching. You were
watched to-night. I watched you, my friend
Do you remember you invited me here for a drink?”
“All right, but I have only whisky. I hope you don’t
want Irish.”
Petrov took it. “It has my full approval The
biggest joke of all is on me. I have been recalled to
my country. They are not satisfied with the way I
have conducted its affairs.”
“Why, dammit, you’ve had your own way nine times
out of ten.”
“Nine times is not enough for my country. It must
be all the times. Anything less than that is failure.
You cannot understand the methods of the cold young
men who are rising to the top. They will send you
one of them to take my place and he will not give
way even the tenth time. There may be no trial. I
shall be liquidated without any.”
He put his hand to the whisky bottle and poured
himself a very generous amount.
“My replacement is due to arrive by air to-morrow.
I am expected to return by a plane that leaves
to-morrow -also.” He moved his hand again to the
bottle. “Before I begin to talk seriously, one more
toast —to ourselves.”
Charles raised his own glass, then drew a notebook
and pencil from a drawer of the desk.
Late one night a week later Charles wrote: L’affaire
Petrov is pretty big news in the English and European
papers . . . and Petrov continues to enjoy the favor that
so often seems to be granted to the one rather than to
the ninety-and-nine. I understand he’s already nego-
tiating for the motion-picture rights of his life-story.
Is all this a breach of diplomacy, a betrayal of
an official confidence or anything of the kind? Not a
bit of it. Except that “Petrov” is substituted for
“Palan” every word of the foregoing is taken from
James Hilton’s novel Time and Time Again, published
by Macmillan’s in 1953. Won’t Hilton be amused!


DIPLOMATIC BAG


PLAIN ENGLISH
Goodbye to All That
After sitting through a six-days session
the Twentieth Parliament of the Com-
monwealth, and the first to complete its
term in enlarged form, expired quietly in
the House of Representatives on the
evening of April 14.
It had never quite found its feet as a
Parliament—its enlargement had filled it
with youth and inexperience, so that it
had a tail too weighty for its body of
seasoned elder-statesmanship. Its regard
for tradition and precedent was far from
normal and it was apt to regard Standing
Orders as a party convenience to be
obeyed only when it suited the plans
of the majority and suspended by
resolution at will. The Speaker’s strong
valedictory remark that very “many
necessary and serious changes in proce-
dure and customs are long overdue” to
introduce an era of “more efficient and
businesslike conduct” of Parliament and
the affairs of the country is patently true.
Never have Parliamentary duties been
neglected as they have been by a large
section of members of all parties in the
last few years. There is a growing ten-
dency on the part of members to look
on the House merely as a broadcasting-
studio through \yhich the electorates can
be reached, and debate not as a medium
of persuasion of Parliament but of
propaganda to the public. Members
regard themselves more and more as the
agents doing departmental business for
their constituents than as legislators. They
are in the main prepared to leave the
legislation to Ministers and the framing
of criticism to the Opposition front-bench,
and feel that they have done their duty
if they are handy enough to vote when
the division- and—all too frequently in
these times —the quorum-bells ring.
Furthermqre, among this Parliament there
are more, and more ardent, home-lovers
than in any Legislature since Noah’s.
The championship of domesticity goes to
a Solon who has been in the normal habit
of flying from Canberra to W.A. and back
each weekend in session—of course, at
the taxpayers’ expense.
The Parliament since its first meeting
on June 12, 1951, has passed 315 bills,
but it is to be hoped that no elector
will feel an urge to cross-examine his
M.P. about most of them. A good many
probably could not even remember what
most of the 26 passed in the last six days
were about —the Senate passed five in
25 minutes —much less the 109 passed in
the record year of 1952.
Certainly, Parliament is beginning to
call for drastic reform, perhaps along the
lines of the London County Council, in
which the bulk of the work of legislating
is done in small and businesslike com-
mittees and the Council is, in the main, a
ratifying body.
World Concert Needed
The curious feature about the proposed
collective defence pact for South-east
Asia and the Western Pacific is the retreat
of the Anzus Powers from their original
isolation.
It was obvious to any observer that as
soon as trouble developed in the South-
east Asian area in a way to portend a
general advance southwards by the Com-
munists there would need to be a general
counter-move.
Yet at the risk of offending United
Kingdom public opinion and in defiance
of every principle of British Common-
wealth co-operation Australia and N.Z.
have insisted till now on maintaining their
exclusive relationship with the United
States.
Now apparently ignoring Australia and
N.Z., the United States has approached
Britain and joined in the issue of a state-
ment that “we are ready to take part with
the other countries concerned in the
examination of the possibility of estab-
lishing a collective defence within the
framework of the charter of the United
Nations to assure the peace, security and
freedom” of the threatened region. It is
proposed that the United States, Britain,
France, Australia and N.Z. should be
the founder-nations which would admit
Siam and the Philippines.
The proposal is linked with the fact
that “on the eve of the Geneva Confer-
ence .... the Communist forces in Indo-
China are increasingly developing their
activities into a large-scale war against
the forces of the French Union.” And
it is also contemporaneous with a U.S.
State Department announcement, made
without consultation with Allies, nthat
U.S. policy was to send American troops
to save Indo-China if the French stopped
fighting.
Mr. Eden says that what is in mind
is something comparable to Nato
organisation in Europe, but it is difficult
to understand why the two bodies are
separated. Against a threat of world
revolutionary war by the Communist
bloc the obvious organisation for defence
seems to be naturally global and not two
bodies, consisting partly of different
members, which are likely to find
themselves confused in thought about
priorities.
There is no doubt about the Russian
attitude and no split in its strategies. The
tendency in Kremlin thought is to link
Russia with China as if the two were one
entity. The slogan is: “Friendship of
U.S.S.R. and China, the Mighty Bulwark
of World Peace.” And Malenkov in his
speeches, beginning with that delivered
over Stalin’s funeral bier, lays stress on
the primary importance of Asia to the
Communist plan. This may be because
Moscow thinks Japan, Southern Asia and
Indonesia most vulnerable both to pro-
paganda and attack and India and Pakis-
tan most soft in the shell. Or it may be
simply that the Pacific side of Asia is to
be used as a poultice to suck off the
forces of the great Powers into a remote
area as far as possible from Europe, the
main theatre in which it is proposed to
attack so soon as the Great Powers are
fully involved in the East.
In the circumstances world cohesion
seems to be the only policy for the West,
and the European Defence Community,
for which an agreement has been signed
by six countries, including the U.K.,
should be turned into a world defence
community. It is utterly senseless that
different parts of the British Common-
wealth should serve freedom in two
different compartments, especially when
Australia actually has fighting forces in
the European zone—the R.A.A.F. at
Malta.
It is vital that Japan and Siam should
be integrated in the Pacific general
defence scheme. And it is urgent that
arrangements should be made quickly,
since the overrunning of Indo-China
would immediately raise the questions of
major import. One is involved in the
fact that, once conquered, Indo-China
would almost certainly establish relation-
ships akin to a merger with Communist
China. Communist China already claims
that its authority runs over the China Sea
right to the Philippine coast and that the
islands in that sea are her. Establishment
of that claim, backed by occupation of
Indo-China, would produce air-control by
the Communists of the main sea-routes
from Japan to Europe.
Living-costs Steady
Six months ago when the Federal Arbi-
tration Court made public its reasons for
suspending quarterly adjustments of the
basic wage —the decision had been
announced six weeks earlier —it com-
mented that there was “good ground for
an expectation that the prices of com-
modities, particularly consumer com-
modities, will tend at least to be stabi-
lised.” In the period between the
announcement of the decision and publi-
cation of the judgment a set of index-
numbers was released which, but for the
judgment, would have meant basic-wage
increases ranging from 2s. in Melbourne
and Adelaide to 10s. in Hobart.' These
adjustments were not applied, but the
Commonwealth Statistician has continued
to issue index-numbers each quarter, and
it is interesting to see how far the
court’s expectations have been realised.
The index-numbers published in
January would, under the old system,
have meant the following change in the
basic wage:
Sydney, nil; Melbourne, up Is.; Bris-
bane, up 35.; Adelaide, up Is.; Perth,
down 25.; Hobart, up 4s. \ six capitals,
up Is.
Last week the figures for the March,
1954, quarter were released. In terms of
basic-wage adjustments they were:
Sydney, nil; Melbourne, down Is.;
Brisbane, up Is. ; Adelaide, down Is.;
Perth, up 45.; Hobart, down ss. ; six
capitals, nil.
A comparison of the above shows
that in the six months since the suspen-
sion of adjustments there has been no
measurable change in the cost-of-living
index in Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide. In Brisbane there has been
the equivalent of 4s. a week increase ; in
Perth 2s. In Hobart there has been a
drop of Is. It is significant that in
Queensland the State Industrial Court
did not follow the example of the Federal
Court, and consequently quarterly adjust-
ments have been added to Queensland
State awards.
When the latest figures were published
Dr. Evatt remarked that
the statistician’s figures are becoming
more and more unreal and do not repre-
sent the true cost-of-living situation,
especially in regard to food. Australian
women are not Interested in abstract
figures. They know all too well that the
actual cost of the essential family budget
is still disastrously high.
Evatt refuses to recognise that the
important thing is that living-costs have
been virtually stabilised. As to the
reliability of the index-figure, the Com-
monwealth Statistician recently showed
that it differs only slightly from the re-
sults shown by one calculated- on a
“more up-to-date” regimen. Apparently
the Doc., would substitute a Gallup poll
of housewives. But despite his criticism,
most people will probably agree that the
court’s expectations have been justified.
A Plan for Flood-control
Periodically destructive floods sweep
down the northern rivers of New South
Wales ; stock are drowned, valuable crops
ruined, houses washed away, towns inun-
dated. For a few days the floods are
news in the city papers ; special reporters
are rushed to the areas affected ; photo-
graphers send down pictures of misery
and desolation. Then the floodwaters
recede —and with them recedes the inter-
est of people in other parts of Australia.
True, there is usually a grant forthcom-
ing from the New South Wales Govern-
ment and another from Canberra and, in
the case of the most recent flood, a sub-
stantial sum from public subscription,
but this is all for the purpose of mitigat-
ing the losses occasioned by the flood.
Nothing is done towards preventing a
recurrence.
One man who has been trying for years
to awaken interest in what he considers
would be a final solution to the flood
problem, as far as one of the rivers is con-
cerned, is Sir Earle Page, whom the Febru-
ary floods spurred into action once again
with his scheme for damming the Clar-
ence River, The Clarence has a catch-
ment area of 10,000 square miles, most
of it high-rainfall country, and is subject
to frequent and severe floods. Sir Earle’s
plan envisages a dam across the Clarence
Gorge, where the river passes through
the Camelback Range. He suggests a
220 ft. dam, which would provide a storage
of three million acre-feet of water—
nearly twice the quantity of the average
flood. The lake so formed would cover
53.000 acres ; 15,000 acres would be in
the river-bed, and 38,000 acres inundated
land. A higher dam would, of course,
mean the sacrifice of a bigger area of
fertile land.
Although the plan is conceived as a
flood-prevention measure, it is not in-
tended to justify itself by virtue of that
function alone. It includes a hydro-
electric power-station below the dam,
which would be capable of producing
100.000 kilowatts at a cost which the
sponsors claim would be cheaper than
that from a coal-fed power-plant. It is
also argued that the controlled flow of
the river would keep the channel of the
lower river more or less stable, in con-
trast with the present conditions where
each flood creates fresh shoals. Finally
it is urged that irrigation from the chan-
nel of the controlled river would be
simple and cheap, and would transform
the area.
The cost? On current estimates, £l9
million. Not much, perhaps, in compari-
son with the Snowy River scheme, but a
considerable sum by any other standard.
But Sir Earle has never been one to be
daunted by the shortage of a few million.
He claims the power from the project
would pay for it and he visualises the
scheme opening up a new era for the
North Coast.
Broadcasting Parliament
“In the ACT”: No regular listener to
Parliamentary broadcasts (if such a person
exists and retains his sanity) will deny
that there are long, dull periods, but
voters should be as much opposed as
should Parliamentarians to the proposal
of the A.B.C. that “the repetitive parts
of debates, the committee stages, and
some of the purely formal business”
should be eliminated from the broadcasts.
Presumably this means that some com-
mission official, sitting behind the glass
screen in the control-box of the Senate
or the House of Reps, would have the
right and authority to switch off if he
thought members were repeating remarks
made earlier, or if he felt proceedings
were becoming unduly dull. Apart from
the obvious impossibility of such control
being effectively imposed, the commission
apparently doesn’t know that the com-
mittee stages of many bills are often
more informative and interesting than
the vague remarks of the second-reading
debates. The proposal indicates lack of
respect by the commission for the rights
of Parliament and of citizens.
Admittedly, many of the proceedings
nowadays are uninteresting, and the
prestige of Parliament, as the A.B.C.
suggests, is suffering as public antagonism
to the broadcasts continues to grow and
be expressed publicly. But the remedy is
surely for Parliament itself to evolve
whatever alterations of procedure will be
conducive to improvement in its own
efficiency, and lead to better understand-
ing and appreciation by radio listeners.
Broadcasting could lead to consideration
of plans to streamline debates, perhaps
by the use, long overdue, of the committee
system of the British Parliament, and to
education of members in the solid political
and other advantages of well-prepared and
succinct speeches. The next Parliament
will have an admirable opportunity for
making a new start, with the recognition
that its prestige and that of the Parlia-
mentary institution is at stake.
If reform comes from within Parlia-
ment should regain its hold on those
listeners who no longer tune into it, and
gain a new audience among those who
realise that the business of the nation
may not always be highly exciting, but is
at least worth making an effort to under-
stand if it is presented clearly and con-
cisely by the nation’s paid servants.
Two Doctor Evatts?
Even the “S. M. Herald,” not renowned
for any love for Mr. Menzies, called the
attack on him by Dr. Evatt for his state
ments on the Petrov case “extravagant
and discursive,” and added that if
security became a lively issue in the
election campaign the responsibility would
not lie with the Prime Minister but with
Dr. Evatt.
It was certainly “hysterical” and
“meaningless”—Mr. Menzies’s words—to
accuse the Prime Minister of making a
“sly insinuation that members of Par-
liament might be called as witnesses”
and of being “over-eager to exploit the
present situation.” And it was “mean-
ingless” in particular for Dr. Evatt, with
his own record in such matters, to say
that it had been “actually suggested that
there will not be criminal prosecutions
for sedition or treason,” and that “the
smear and slander technique must have
no place in our system of justice”; also
to charge the Government with having
“allowed a succession of Communists to
travel to and fro between Australia and
China, even when Australian soldiers in
Korea were fighting against Chinese
troops,”
All these accusations are a greater
tribute to the Opposition-leader’s brazen
nerve than to his commonsense and his
power of memory. Two of the most
prominent Peking trippers were Ernest
Thornton, who was a member of the
“Labor” Prime Minister’s Trade Union
War Advisory panel in the days when
Dr. Evatt was Attorney-General and
Security Minister, and Dr. Burton, whom
he chose over the heads of the whole
civil service to be secretary of the Ex-
ternal Affairs Department and his own
principal adviser.
When in office Dr. Evatt himself was
not much in favor of prosecutions for
sedition. He accused the “Australia
First” men of treason and said he might
prosecute —but he did not prosecute. He
dumped them behind barbed-wire at the
end of an intensive campaign by the
Communist party to get them there, and
the Communists were able to placard
the town with their names next day at a
time when the newspapers and in some
cases their relatives had not yet found
out what had happened to them.
He was forced by the sheer weight of
public opinion to appoint a royal com-
mission to inquire into the cases of
these unfortunate persons, and when that
commission was in being, and it was an
act of contempt to comment on the issues
before it, he, in his capacity as Attorney-
General, showed how much he abhorred
the “smear and slander technique” which
he attributes to Menzies by making a
statement in which he said:
Any person rushing: In to make party
political capital out of these cases will
find, when the full facts are disclosed,
that he is on the side of a. group the
leaders of which were prepared to stab
Australia in the back during the period
of our greatest peril undoubtedly a
quisling subversive anti-Australian and
anti-British group.
When it came to the inquiry it was dis-
covered that most of those charged were
not even associated with the Australia
First movement. Even Dr. Evatt’s
Security Department had not the
(Continued on next page)


effrontery seriously to attempt to pro-
duce evidence that any of them had had
any connection with the enemy or made
any attempt to have any. One turned
out to be a loyal bank official who had
just given £l5O to the fund to replace
HM.A.S. Sydney. One was a wounded
soldier of World War I who died while
the inquiry was on, and largely as a
result of it. One was an Anzac with
a gallant record. One was so little a
“quisling” that he was actually chosen
to be a military cipher-clerk in the Intel-
ligence Department while Dr. Evatt’s
counsel were branding him as a traitor
—he was serving with a commando unit
in Borneo.
The only evidence that the Doctor’s
emissaries had to offer in the case of
another was that he had tried to support
the right to free speech for a movement
with which he was not connected —Dr.
Evatt had always done the same vigor-
ously for the Communists —and the only
compromising matter found in his house
when searched seemed to be a couple of
Union Jacks. Many of these innocent
victims of the Doctor’s slander secured
monetary compensation. Dr. Evatt’s
sense of justice does not seem to work
uniformly. Or are there two Doctor
Evatts?
POLITICAL POINTS
The Twentieth Parliament has joined
its ancestors.
• •
All chess players are familiar with
“Petroff’s Defence,” but Petrov’s Attack
may open up a new game altogether.
• •
Bernard Corser, M.H.R. for Wide Bay
(Q.), made his farewell speech in the clos-
ing minutes of the 20th Parliament. Ill-
health has forced his retirement from the
seat he has held since 1928, when he
succeeded his father. For 16 years before
that he had been a member of the Queens-
land House of Assembly.
• •
One notable difference between Corser
and several other M.H.R.s who left Can-
berra last week is that he knew he
wouldn’t be coming back.
• •
London “Times,” praising the “rugged
loyalty” of Australians, comments that
Australia is “an uncomfortable land for
dignitaries.” Judging by the appearance of
the vast swarms of Federal, State and
municipal dignitaries, one can only
assume that they thrive upon discomfort.
• •
No private cars in city, only trams and
buses, predicted chairman Risson, of the
Melbourne Tramways Board, waxing
prophetic at a meeting of the Engineers’
Institute on the Melbourne of the future.
A few hours later his prophecy came true
in reverse —no trams and buses, only pri-
vate cars and half a million workers trudg-
ing through the rain into the city. A
lightning strike by Mr. Risson’s loyal
henchmen over a trifling matter of off-
days produced the change.
• •
King O’Malley, last survivor of the
original Federal Parliament and a life-
long student of political economy, appar-
ently decided at the end that economy
begins in the home. His will—sworn for
probate at £69,000, a figure exceeded ®by
few, if any, of his colleagues of 1901 —
after making provision for his widow,
establishes a trust fund to provide 30
annual scholarships tenable at schools of
domestic economy.
• •
Quite appropriately, with Easter, only
two days off and election-day just over
six weeks away, eggs were in the political
air during the final day’s sittings of Par-
liament. Even the Opposition had to
approve the Government’s plan for a
special grant to the industry of £250,000
because of the serious fall in export prices,
and only a few members smiled when
Commerce Minister McEwen referred to
the “yoke” which “Labor” had put round
the necks of the producers during its term
of office. This election-egg, at least,
should find its mark.
• •
Some leading figures from the liquor-
interests descended on Canberra after
the announcement of soaring Government
revenues. There’s conjecture as to whether
they suggested to either side, or to both,
that promises of excise cuts might prove
good election-bait?
• •
Cain’s caucus is eager for a rise in
Parliamentary screws. John wanted the
subject deferred until after the Federal
election, but the boys wouldn’t be staved
off. They rejected his proposal and the
subject will be discussed next week.
• •
Wheatfarmers attracted by the Pollard
bran might reflect on a little bit of wheat
history from “Labor’s” past. In 1946,
when the New Zealand Labor Govern-
ment had an election coming up, the
Chifley “Labor” Government signed a
contract to sell the Dominion
bushels of wheat at ss. 9d. a bushel,
although the export price was then
14s. 6d. This arrangement went on for
four years and New Zealand was still
getting Australian wheat at ss. 9d. in
1948 when the export price had soared
to 21s.
Sydney “Tribune” came out on Tuesday
last week instead of Wednesday. The rea-
son was to get the distribution over before
Easter, but it also saved the Communist
rag from the embarrassment of having
to mention the Petrov affair.
• •
W. C. Haworth, Liberal M.H.R. for
Isaacs (Vic.), has been trying to find out
who was responsible for the change
made while “Labor” was in power where-
by the Royal cipher was removed from
pillar-boxes and postal vans and replaced
by an emblem which represents Mercury,
but which he claims is more like a ballet
dancer doing a jig. Former P.M.G. Sena-
tor Donald Cameron should be able to
supply the information. Incidentally, it
is strange that no ministers of religion
seem to have complained about this adop-
tion of a pagan deity by the Postal
Department.
• •
An economy measure stirs a Canberra
home-owner to break into rhyme:
The public servants are on edge;
Each must in future trim his hedge.
Appeal to politicians fails —
They’re all too busy trimming sails.
• •
It is a matter for debate whether it is
the teetotaller in Eddie Ward or the
Eddie Ward in the teetotaller that makes
THE MARGINAL VICTIM
“One of these days I’ll have to take legislative and administrative
action about that poor fellow."
the member for East Sydney throw accu-
sations of insobriety around the House.
However, as other t.t.s in the Reps seem
able to refrain from the practice, it is
most likely the former.
• 9
Coal strikes aren’t big news nowadays,
but they go on just the same. In the
week ended April 10 more than 20
N. S. Wales pits were affected by strikes
and the loss in production totalled 70,000,
tons. For the first 13 weeks of this year
the approximate tonnage lost through
strikes was 332,000 tons.
9 9
Aneurin Sevan’s resignation from the
British Labor party’s “shadow Cabinet”
brings to a head his long campaign
against Attlee. His immediate reason is
the party’s failure to resist the Govern-
ment’s decision to discuss a South-east
Asia pact with America, but he also
rejects party-policy on German rearma-
ment and is almost pathologically anti-
American. Sevan’s real objective is
Attlee’s job as leader.
9 9
Once again the falsity of the term
“penalty-rates” for work done at week-
ends and on holidays has been demon-
strated. In Melbourne a batch of tram-
mies and busmen were told to take their
day-off on Good Friday instead of the
previous Monday. Result; a hold-up of
trams and buses for three days. Said
Chief Conciliation Commissioner
Mooney, at a compulsory conference:
The purpose of granting workers public
holidays is to allow them to take part in
festivities, not to provide them with penalty
pay for working.
A big proportion of the deficit on
public transport is attributable to these
“penalty-rates.”
• •
Although the Government’s changing
policy on Peking-picnic-passports is a
little hard to follow it is harder still to
swallow Calwell’s story that a “Labor”
Government Would have banned attend-
ance at the picnics all along.
• •
Some politicians simply won’t learn.
Many of the Canberra species are evinc-
ing a passionate desire to have television
tacked on to Parliamentary broadcasts.
Nothing did more to destroy their pres-
tige in the eyes of the public than to hear
them talk—and now they want to be
seen. Is it that they think their faces are
better than their arguments?
• •
“X.S.”: As I am engaged in writing a
novel from the public’s viewpoint on the
Melbourne tram-strike I am very con-
cerned about the Cain Government’s
extension of the definition of “obscene”
to cover works which emphasise gross
cruelty and horror. I can’t see how I can
keep either of those ingredients out of
my work without betraying truth, yet if
I put them in I presumably become an
obscene writer.
With typical impertinent belief in the
brevity of the public memory, “Labor”
is attempting to claim credit for the secret-
ballot legislation which has cleaned the
Communists out of many key unions.
The A.L.P. Industrial Groups have said
that the record votes in the ballots con-
ducted through the court were “complete
vindication of the legislation pioneered
by the Chifley-Evatt Government,”
ignoring the fact that Evatt and his party
fought the Menzies legislation tooth and
nail. The original “Labor” Act left a
decision on ballots to the management of
a union, and was utterly useless. Menzies
gave a potent voice to the rank-and-file,
and it has been invoked 63 times, usually
with startlingly good results. Unionists
know the true facts —and they have votes
at Federal elections as well as in their
union ballots.
• •
“Stromlo”: I can hardly wait for May
6 to learn what Evatt and “Labor” mean
by their promised “legislative and ad-
ministrative action on wage margins.”
The bribe to skilled workers will probably
be in inverse proportion to “Labor’s” ex-
pectation of getting into office and having
to carry out its undertakings.
• •
At the end of March there were 8970
persons in receipt of unemployment-
relief ; twelve months previously the
figure was 29,674. To the total at the end
of March should be added at least one.
The Unemployment Bogy should be on
the list; he seems to be definitely out of a
job.
• •
“Chevroford”: Superintendent Dixon,
police traffic-chief in Melbourne, said
recently: “I consider that any motorist
who blatantly forces a pedestrian to
jump for safety is driving negligently, but
unless the person is actually knocked
down we cannot prosecute.” If this is
so, then the sooner the law is amended
the better. I have previously commented
that the spot in Melbourne where
motorists blatantly force a pedestrian to
jump for the pavement most often is
bang in front of the Russell-street police-
headquarters, right under the noses of
400 policemen. I now understand why
the cops merely look on when I jump
for the pavement —they can’t do any-
thing about it. I’m in much the same
position as an artist friend who com-
plained to the Paris police that a man
was climbing over the roof of his studio
with a gun and breathing loud threats
through the skylight and firing frequent
shots into the air. The gendarmes said
they could do nothing about it until he
actually got himself shot. I have decided
to take to motoring until the law is
altered.
• •
“Sheep Fed Better than Australian
Children” would be a splendid headline
in a Moscow paper, and it will probably
appear in due course, since Dr. Russell
Shannon, honorary dental officer to the
Lord Mayor’s holiday camp at Portsea
(Vic.), has said it. The reason given by
the doctor, however, was physiological
—that country children are fed too much
on cake and jam, which cause deplorable
dental-decay, misshapen jaws and over-
crowded teeth. Sheep are treated much
more sensibly.
• •
“In the ACT”: There was more sentiment
and less exuberance than usual about the final
half-hour of the 20th Parliament, with marked
and not surprising glumness on the “Labor”
side. The sentiment was due to a voluntary
retirement, that of “Bernie” Corser, Country
party, who has represented Wide Bay (Q.)
for 26 years. His swansong was brief, a
little halting, and quite affecting. Both Menzies
and Evatt paid a tribute to Corser, who, as
Menzies said, had “added to the gaiety of
nations” on numerous occasions. Menzies also
thanked the Leader and Deputy Leader of the
Opposition, the Whips and staffs of the House
—and the Press, “for whom we have fluctuating
affection but warm personal relations.” He
congratulated the Speaker, and Evatt thereupon
endorsed all these sentiments. Archie Cameron
said that when he looked back over the Parlia-
ment he was “rather surprised” at his own
moderation, adding that he had set out to
do many things not yet accomplished. There
were many changes needed in the procedure and
customs of the House. Parliament should get
down to a better and more businesslike way of
conducting affairs of State. “There are so
many responsibilities of a Commonwealth
character that we have no need to trespass
upon the preserves of the States.” He added
that he would not hint at the position from
which he would view the proceedings in the
next Parliament. The motion for adjournment
was then carried on voices slightly louder than
usual. In its three years of life the House had
sat on 191 occasions, and it had lost nine of
its members by death. Its three sessions had
been opened by the Sovereign and by two
Governor-Generals. Its work was over, and
the verdict was now with its masters.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
/~\NE recent incident within the
Senate walls at Canberra was unique.
The Queen had opened Parliament there
with pomp and ceremony two days pre-
viously, sitting in the Royal chair, with
her consort a suitable distance away, on
a lower and less ornate seat. Now the
Royal Ball was in progress in King’s Hall,
and the Queen and Duke, with one or
two personal attendants, decided to go
through the Senate Chamber on a visit
of respite to their suites. As they passed
the dais the Duke seated himself with
mock ceremony in the regal chair, and
pointed imperiously to the lesser one,
which the Queen took with a broad
smile. The sole outside observer of the
by-play will not say whether the Royal
tongue was visible for a moment, but per-
haps it was. And why not? —“Muega
Way.”
* ❖ #
“Birubi”; Bob Menzies was in form at
the Huon apple-festival, assuring the
crowd that a misprint in the local paper,
that Dame “Pittie” would assist him,
was not meant as a reflection on Tas-
manian apples. As he assisted the Apple
Queen to her float —a four-wheeler white
“This is the part that rocks me!”
swan —the loudspeaker said: “It looks a
bit wobbly, but the Queen has solid sup-
port.” Even seagulls came inland to take
a look at Bob and “Pittie” ... as pretty
a gesture as any the Apple Isle could
record.
# * *
“Jock”: When the Red Cross blood-
transfusion service in Sydney takes blood
it gives each donor 12 iron pills, to be
taken over a period. One inquisitive
donor told the Sister the other day:
“You know, I’ve always wondered what
these were for. I’ve seen thousands of
’em.” Asked by an incredulous Nightin-
gale how that could possibly be, he
replied: “I’m a dry-cleaner.”
v v v
“W.P.T.”: The announcer at the
Royal Banquet in Adelaide might have put
it a little better: “The toast was proposed
by the Premier, Mr. Playford, and then
repeated by all the guests who were
standing and drunk.”
♦ ♦ ♦
“Melb’n”: The Estonian migrant
who, in Victoria, killed his wife and son
and mother and daughter of another
Estonian family, critically injured two
others and then killed himself took a
tram to Melbourne midway through his
slaughter, bought a rifle and cartridges in
a shop, and went back to finish the job.
This has demonstrated how easy it is for
anyone over 18 to buy ammunition and
lethal weapons in Melbourne, where no
police-permit is needed.
& *
“Tasmaniac”: The innocent who
thought the double-header was a misprint
from the Mint (B. 31/3/’54) reminded me
of the youngster who threw in his lot
with a crowd who “did” the fairs—and
the people who patronised them. An
old trouper was showing the newchum
his special lurk —a wheel whose perimeter
was adorned with colored maps of the
main countries of the world. The wheel
spun, you backed your fancy, and col-
lected if the pointer lay on your chosen
land when the wheel stopped. The old-’un
uncovered a concealed wire. “Just in case
I’m winning too much,” he explained, “I
use that wire. With that I can make ’er
stop wherever I like, and give ’em a win
if they’re losing a lot.” The newchum
digested this. Suddenly he jerked up.
“Hey,” he said excitedly, “you could use
it to make sure you win.” The old-timer’s
mouth slowly opened. He smacked his
fist into his palm. “Good Lord,” he said,
“1 never thought of that!”
* * *
“Ariadne”: The pronouncement of
Yale students that Marilyn Monroe is “a
fat blonde” rather startles the lesser-
cultured members of today’s publicity-
fed world. If this is the result of higher
education, how are the movie moguls to
continue to sell their wares with such
announcements as “the world’s two most
electrifying sights—Marilyn Monroe and
Niagara Falls,” which accompanied one
of their realistic dramas? With the rapid
advance of culture, will such a boosted
lady as willowy Ava Gardner be dismissed
as a “scrawny brunette” and voluptuous
Rita Hayworth be written-down as a
“hefty Spaniard”?
❖ ❖
“Black Strap”: Mahommed Allum was
one of Australia’s most prosperous
quacks. After spending most of his life
as a camel-driver, he set up as a healer,
claiming possession of secret herbal reme-
dies. People flocked to his consulting-
room, but wholesale chemists found
nothing mysterious about the remedies he
dispensed, seeing that his purchases were
"It's my turn to play William Tell this time.”
confined to such old-fashioned purgatives
as senna. At the age of 80 he married a
young European woman. She presented
him with a daughter who grew to be his
living image. At 92, very wealthy, he
retired find took his wife and child with
him to his native Afghanistan. In a
Press interview before they sailed he
scoffed at inoculation and vaccination.
Now fate has played him a cruel trick.
Word has been received that a smallpox
epidemic in Kandahar has carried off his
unvaccinated wife, while he and his
daughter—also unvaccinated —have both
had a pretty bad time from the same
disease.
* *
“E.W.”: Apropos The Bulletin pub-
lication of Emmeline Macarthur’s account
of her youth and early married life, her
daughter, Emmeline de Falbe, of Whit-
tington House, near Lichfield (Eng.),
visited Elizabeth Farm and her mother’s
old home. Vineyard, in January, 1934.
Emmeline Macarthur was married to her
first husband, George Farquhar Leslie, In
1847, so there was a span of 87 years
between the mother’s marriage and the
daughter’s visit.
❖ ❖
“Nimrod”: Short-wave radio-station
VLX4 must have one of the smallest
radio-audiences in the world. Operating
on the 60-metre band allotted to the
Commonwealth by international agree-
ment, it aims its transmissions at nor’-west
Australia. To start with, population is
limited there. And then there are only
four commercial makes of receiver de-
signed for this wave-length, and these
range from £6O to £7O each. Still, the
A.B.C. must go on transmitting if it is to
keep the band.
* ❖ *
“El Arem”: With its safety-valves,
pressure-gauges and sturdy construction,
you’d think the modem pressure-cooker
would be woman-proof. I saw one reduced
to ruin in a few minutes. No; the safety-
valve was not blocked, nor did the cooker
dry. All that happened was that its
owner boiled it in a strong solution of
caustic-soda. You can imagine what this
did to aluminium. It now makes a use-
ful drinking-vessel for chooks. From
cooker to chooker.
♦2* * *:*
“Willpar”: Most of us have never
been closer to an operating-theatre audi-
ence than at the movies. The tense
drama of surgical talkies, the bloodcurd-
ling atmosphere created, instilled fear of
the knife into this mortal until the day,
during the Pacific war, I visited a friend,
a doctor, at an advanced Army hospital.
“He’s in the operating-theatre,” I was
told. “Go on in.” I did, with a Press-
camera. Two doctors and a few nurses
were grouped around a gaping hole in
their victim’s abdomen. “Join in,” said
my friend. “I need some help. Harry,
here, is trying to cram the virtues of Aus-
tralian Rules down my throat. You’re a
Rugby man, aren’t you?” Harry was
holding the incision open with two instru-
ments, but every now and then, to stress
a point, he’d wave one in his colleague’s
face, and the stitching of the inner layer,
or something, would be postponed till he
got a fresh grip. “How about a photo?”
suggested my friend —and action ceased
while I stood on a chair, adjusted my
flash and lens, and arranged the operators
around their victim like a pleasant
family-group, I lost my fear of the knife,
but, unfortunately, I have also lost the
ability to enjoy Hollywood drama. I feel
I’m being had.
♦ * *
“Fairf”: My nomination for the
strangest sight of 1954: a young, well-
dressed girl dragging a stroller, bump,
bump, bumping up the steps of the rail-
way-station at Parramatta (N.S.W.). In
the stroller a young baby; in the girl’s
free hand —a completely-unwrapped,
fully-assembled .22 repeating-rifle! No
doubt there was some simple explanation:
a present for Pop that had lost its wrap-
ping, or she may have picked it up for
Brother when passing the gunsmith’s, or
something similar. Now, if it had been a
shotgun . . .
♦> ❖
“Curate’s Egg”; The chap who re-
gretted that, having obtained his 8.A., he
would have to abandon his stop-gap
occupation of builder’s laborer for the
genteel poverty of the teaching profession
(B. 31/3/’54) is in somewhat similar
straits to a barrister-cousin of mine whose
shingle has brought him no deluge of
briefs. During his public-school years
his doting mother took him along to an
archbishop much respected for his
acumen and sought the divine’s advice on
a vocation for him. The arch, pondered
deeply and announced: “I’ll cheerfully
give you my advice, which I’m sure you
won’t take. You should make a brick-
layer out of him! ” The episcopal counsel
was received with hauteur; the youth
duly became a barrister and now regards
with envy a form-mate whose parents did
take the archbishop’s advice, and who is
now a leading contractor, his prosperity
in no small way advanced by his Lord-
ship’s building programmes.
* *
“C.W.J.”: Society often ranges itself
with the elusive prey and the fickle
elements to plague the poor angler. Even
so, repentant society can seldom have felt
obliged to set bounds to persecution of
the kind forbidden by the Newquay
(Cornwall) Council in a notice reading:
Unless otherwise agreed at the time of
hiring, boatmen should not charge visitors
for any fish they themselves may catch.
I wonder would Australian fishermen
rely on such official protection if a like
gross extortion were tried out here?,
LAMENT IN CAMERA
“Auguste Lumifere, who, with his brother
Louis, was first to manufacture cameras and film
(1890), and first to stage a public cinemato-
graphic performance (1894), died on April 10,
aged 92.”
How many million camera-eyes
Should be filmed-over with a film
At Auguste Lumiere’s demise?
They owed their views of life to hilm:
The first projectionist has been
Projected past his own invention,
Beyond 3D, beyond the screen.
Into a fourth or fifth dimension.
His life was long; his days were full;
Was his an influence for good?
For what was he responsible ?
Well, to begin with, Hollywood;
For sweatered and for glamor-girled
Apotheoses of the Tart;
For flights of painters from the world
Into the air of abstract art;
For photos of your childish way,?
That make you wish you’d not been
born;
For snapshots from your holidays
That make you wish you hadn’t gorn;
For all the evenings you’ve been bored
By pictures taken on the track
Of other people’s trips abroad,
That make you wish they’d not come
back ;
For models modelling model-frocks;
For prints of social bints at Princes ;
For Miss Bikini on the rocks
Smirking while the reader winces ....
Better had Auguste never lived!
Nor will his influence diminish —
Though his life-work was negatived,
His death entails no photo-finish.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Fis still possible to buy a watch that
only tells the time, instead of one of
those made to tell the seasons, the moon-
changes, and a hundred other things. It
is still possible to buy a toaster that just
toasts bread and hasn’t a dozen springs
and other gadgets to go wrong. It’s pos-
sible to buy a radio that can only get
programmes and has no cocktail-cabinet,
gramophone, three-piece-suite or bed
attached to it. Wouldn’t it be wonderful
if we could buy a motor-car after the style
of the old Models T and A Fords, with
practically nothing to go wrong, un-
limited mileage without garage-attention,
and no gadgets?—“No Sirrah.”
& *i*
“Birubi”: A small drawing of June
and Lucy Cutmear, of Hobart, was
knocked down at a Tasmanian mart for
£l5O to a woman with a show-place at
Westbury (Tas.). This contemporary
price for a pen-and-wash drawing will
not seem high when it is remembered
that the artist was awarded a free passage
to Tasmania by the British Government
"Kindly remove your hat, lady!”
for his life-size execution of his ma-in-
law, uncle and half-sister—and this
although the artist, Thomas Griffiths
Wainewright, modestly denied that the
works were his.
.
“Mugga Way” : Men of war are often
men of God, but cadets at the Royal
Military College at Duntroon must wor-
ship under difficulties. The report of the
commandant for 1952, now tabled in
Parliament, mentions that Sunday ser-
vices of the O. of E. and the united ser-
vices of the Protestant denominations had
been moved from the gym. to the
picture-theatre. “There being no chapel,
the arrangements for divine service
remain somewhat makeshift, and there
is no opportunity for a place of quiet to
meet the need of private prayer at other
times.” The R.C.s did rather better,
having a temporary chapel, and the com-
mandant says that both in this chapel
and in the picture-theatre the numbers of
attendances have been steady, and every
effort has been made to lend dignity to
the surroundings of worship.
* * ❖
“Archaen”: In Adelaide the SA.
branch of the Royal Geographical Society
staged a Royal-visit exhibition calculated
to make any book-collector’s mouth
water. Treasures usually kept locked
away were put on show. Among such
items as unblemished copies of well-
known works —George French Angas s
South Australia Illustrated and New Zear
land Illustrated, or Gould’s magnificent
Birds of Australia—l noticed the follow-
ing : Description of Jamaica, published in
London in 1678 ; Survey of West Indies
(1648); Colonel Light’s official dispatches
on the founding of the province of South
Australia; Defence of Scots’ Settlement
at Darien (1699); Dampier’s Voyage to
New Holland (1703). Original MSS. on
show included Joseph Banks’s journal of
his visit to Newfoundland in 1766, which
established his reputation as a scientist
and led to his selection as the botanist
to accompany Captain Cook. The exhibi-
tion was organised by Miss Kilmeny
Symon, whose own collection includes
some of the rarest of Australiana.
*i-
“Em”: Your correspondent’s request
for information (B. 24/2/’54) on the
Australian writer “Milky White” brings
to mind the time Ernest Sando Emerson
(for it was he) showed his brothers Tom
and Joe a manuscript on the White Aus-
tralia policy—his favorite topic; hence
“Milky White”—entitled “Keep the
Strain White.” Tom liked it, but Joe said,
“It sounds like a slogan for a white-
Leghorn poultry-farmer.” Joe had a
literary bent, but never sent a manuscript
to a publisher as did his brother and his
more famous cousin, Ralph Waldo
Emerson.
♦X* ❖
“Robbie”: Recently reported that the
old tug Champion had sunk at her moor-
ings in Newcastle. Some 60 years back
my father brought this tug here from
England. Leaving Portsmouth the
weather was extremely bad, so much so.
that a light cruiser which cleared the
coast at the same time turned back to
harbor. The tug kept on. In the Bay of
Biscay she had to heave-to, and until the
i weather moderated Champion rode the
: heavy sea like a champ,, shipping hardly
a cupful. In that gale they had one
casualty—an engineer who was partially
scalped through colliding with a towing-
beam. My dad sewed the scalp hack,
and was complimented by the port doctor
at Gibraltar on having made an excellent
job of it. Shortly after Champion’s
arrival in these waters she practically paid
for herself by salvaging a large sailing-
ship off Wilson’s Promontory.
“Mard”: He had weak pink eyes, white
eyelashes and the complexion of un-
cooked tripe, and was afflicted with hay-
fever, which involved him in almost con-
tinuous fits of sneezing, between which
he lit and smoked a succession of
cigarettes. He looked as if he hadn’t a
kick left hi him, and the woman with the
long face, the morose nose and the bitter
Calvinistic mouth who got into the
crowded smoking-compartment surveyed
him with mounting disgust. Finally her
“ He's making it a bit hot. That's the second time he's been rescued
this morning."
wrath boiled over. “Sir,” she snapped,
“don’t you see that it is all those cigar-
ettes that are irritating your catarrh?”
The weak eyes suddenly grew unexpect-
edly fierce. “Madam,” he said, “I should
love to irritate my catarrh. It has been
irritating me for 45 years!”
* *l* ❖
“C. 8.”: The E., S. and A., first in Mel-
bourne to open a drive-in bank, will soon
be the first in Australia to have com-
mercial television. The links will be
between the chief Collins-street office, the
Royal Branch and a ledger-posting
centre in Bourke-street. If a Collins-
street customer wants his statement he
will be rung through to Bourke-street and
will know and see the worst in a few
seconds. Reason for the innovation was
need of space in the central office.
* ❖ ❖
“F.S.”: A London architect leant back
in his chair at a hostelry at Hendon,
looked idly at the ceiling, and suddenly
jumped as if he had been bitten by a
mayfly. He recognised a hitherto un-
known fresco by Giovanni Battista
Tiepolo, the 18th-century Italian master,
one of whose major works, “The Ban-
quet of Cleopatra,” is in the National
Gallery in Melbourne. The hotel is an
old house once occupied by David Gar-
rick; thousands must have stared at the
fresco before the architect, I. B. Gold,
recognised it. Its value would be about
the same as the Melbourne example,
which cost the Felton Bequest £25,000.
*l* * *
“Piper”: From the “S. M. Herald” of
April 6:
ELAINE FIFIELD
EXPECTING CHILD
LONDON, April 5 (A.A.P,).—Miss Elaine
Fifield, formerly of Sydney, who is now leading
ballerina of the Sadler’s Wells Theatre Company,
is expecting a baby this month.
Her husband is Sadler’s Wells conductor John
Lansbury. The couple were married in Los
Angeles three years ago on a ballet tour of
America.
A British Foreign Office spokesman to-day
said that British, U.S. and French officials will
meet in Paris to-morrow to draft a reply to the
Soviet offer.
Layette, or veto nyetl
*X* ❖ ❖
“Pudden”: At last, in Sydney, I have
achieved the renown that, deep in the bot-
tom-most recesses of our hearts, we all
crave. It has been many, many years
coming, but now . . . Well, there it was,
for all the world to see —written in chalk
on a fence in Glebe: “Pudden has been
here.” The ungenerous may point out
that there are other “Puddens” in Aus-
tralia, but I don’t care. At last I have
risen to immortality, and nobody’s going
to shake me off my pedestal. I am now
the equal of Foo and Mr. Chad.
“Tasma Jun.”: Looking-up an old copy
• of “Hobart Town Advertiser” of 1860,
I came across an extraordinary result of
telegraphic error. The paper received a
telegram: “It is reported that the
Governor of the Maoris is Pratts
daughter,’' Unable to make anything or
it, the editor gave the message a go, by
printing it as received. It transpired that
the original message was: “It is reported
that Governor Barkly is about to marry
Major-General Pratt’s daughter.” Marry
was converted into ‘ Maoris in trans-
mission and a few words left out. 1 was
reminded of a more recent case in
Tasmania wherein confusion resulted
from an official “correcting” the spelling
in a telegram before delivery. In this
instance consent of the father was being
transmitted for his daughter’s marriage
in another town. The father’s name was
Denys, and when the telegram arrived as
“Father denies gives consent daughter’s
marriage” it was quite a while before the
turning of “Denys” into “denies” was
discovered, to the happiness of a weep-
ing bride-elect.
* ❖ *
“Cauboy”: I see that an Elizabethan
Trust Fund has been established to com-
memorate the Queen’s visit to Australia,
and £lOO,OOO is to be raised to present
drama, opera and ballet. According to
the prospectus the trust aims to make the
theatre in Australia the same vigorous and
significant force in national life as it was
in England during the first Elizabethan
era. I sincerely hope it succeeds; but it
was not a trust with £lOO,OOO in its pockets
and a committee of alleged experts which
made the theatre a significant force in
the first Elizabeth’s England—it was
Shakspeare, Marlowe, Ben Jonson, Hey-
wood, Fletcher, Drayton and a few other
often poverty-stricken individuals.
♦> ❖
“Gui”: Hank hadn’t been long at
“Milnee” Bay when, returning one night
to his camp with a whole truck-load of
cigarettes, he pulled-up at our possie for
directions. Conversation turned to air-
raids, and he asked what the drill was.
“When you hear three shots dive into the
nearest trench,” he was told. “We’re
expecting a big one tonight.” “Where
are the trenches around here?” he asked.
“Over in that clump of timber,” an erk
told him, pointing to a spot about a
hundred yards away. Soon after, three
shots rang out. Hank overtook and
passed his new friend on the way to
safety. When a case of cigarettes had
been safely transferred the all-clear—one
shot —was sounded. Hank drove off inno-
cently, a little shaken by his first experi-
ence of an air-raid. Yank M.P.s, v/iser in
the ways of Aussies, were permitted to
make a thorough but unsuccessful search
next day.
♦> *i* *l*
“Jasby”: My eight-year-old son is
intensely patriotic; there’s been no
counting the flags he has waved and the
“God Saves” he has sung around the
house since the Queen arrived in Austra-
lia. But last night he rocked me a little.
He was showing me his school work-
books, the covers of which he had
embellished with pictures cut out of
magazines. His selection covered a wide
range. It was the nature-study cover
that pulled me up—a group of statuary
in Madrid, half-concealed by a huge
placard, “Gibraltar Espanol.” “Pretty,
isn’t it?” he said when he saw me star-
ing. He was a little too young for me
to explain that in a Gestapo-ruled
country that would have been sufficient
to get us both thrown into a concen-
tration-camp.
GENTS OF THE BILLHOOK
“The branch-president of the Sydney Water-
side Workers’ Federation, after announcing that,
following an inquiry into allegations of bashing
a stevedoring foreman, seven wharfies had been
expelled, described wharflaborers as ‘the best-
disciplined and best-behaved men in society.’ ’
Their manners and breeding
You must be conceding;
Their savoir faire’s quite unbelievable.
Their beer they demolish
With singular polish;
They’ve found that refinement’s
achievable.
In cafes the wharfies
Don’t roar for their “cawfees”—
They nobly repress such anxiety.
They’ll risk no negation
Of this reputation :
“The best-behaved men in society.”
When shipowners serving
They’re keen on preserving
Good taste: of themselves they’re most
critical.
“Stink”-money they never
Demand; they will ever
Refer to an “odor mephitical.”
A large sack of onions
Falls flush on Bill’s bunions;
No “langwidge”; no shrieks of impiety !
This states his forbearance:
“That was careless, Clarence!” —
The best-behaved men in society.
Why / Even when blotto
They stick to their motto
Of “Noblesse oblige,” very rigidly.
When somebody pukes up
Or, wild, puts his dooks up.
They view such behavior most frigidly.
They may, some dispute in,
Start putting the boot in.
But, oh. it’s ail done with propriety !
They’re blokes of fine feelings,
Politeness appealing—
“The best-behaved men in society."
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Off to Britain as Senior Air Staff Officer
of No. 3 Group in R.A.F. Bomber Com-
mand, Air-Commodore C. D. Candy.
The appointment is in accord with a
scheme to give senior officers of the
R.A.A.F. experience with the most
modern bombers in the world. No. 3
Group is just about to be re-equipped
with these —the first group in the United
Kingdom to receive them.
• •
When E. W. Carr won a pokeful of
prizes with a pig at Sydney’s Royal Easter
Show a Sydney paper recorded that “Mr.
Carr captained the Australian Olympic
team to Paris in 1900.” “Slip” isn’t quite
as old as that; it was in the early 1920’s
that he was the fastest thing on the Aus-
tralian sprinting tracks, and his Paris trip
was in 1924. He has been running a
small sheep property at Bringelly (N.S.W.)
for some years ; pigs are a recent addition
to the place, and his winner, a black-
and-white Wessex Saddleback, Waterloo
Othello, is the first he has exhibited.
• •
Kind things were said in Melbourne
City Council when Town Clerk H. S.
Wootton, who had just had his 61st birth-
day, announced that he wished to retire
next March instead of waiting for the
statutory retiring-age. His reason for the
long warning was to give the council
time to find and train a successor, as
his deputy is due to retire at the end of
the year. Wootton has been with the
council for 45 years, successively as tele-
phone-boy, industrial officer, chief clerk
and deputy town-clerk. In the present job
since 1935 he has steered a regiment of
Lord Mayors and aldermen through the
tricky waters of procedure and pre-
cedence.
• •
W. S. Lonnie, one of the Westralians
honored with an M.V.O. on the last day
of the Royal tour, won the M.C. as a
lieutenant in the 2/43rd battalion on
Tarakan. In less crowded hours he is a
genial energetic civil servant, a C.M.F.
major, and senior vice-president of the
State R.S.L.
• •
Herewith Chic Johnson, of the firm of
Olsen and Johnson, manufacturers of a
world-famous line of crazy business.
Their show “Hellzapoppin,” now pop-
ping in Sydney and shortly to
pop in Melbourne, has been exorcis-
ing gloom at the New York Win-
ter Garden for the past seven years, the
third-longest run in the world by the
oldest team of vaudevillian lunatics in
existence. Chic started as a hot-ragtime
player and then moved to stage, film and
television. He already knows Australia
—he was here in 1928 under the William-
son banner, when he played in “Tiptoes”
LAUGHS
with Henri Penn and Gus Bluett. Re-
putedly a millionaire, he still practises
his profession as tirelessly as ever, and
had to be traced for the purpose of this
sketch to his bath on the Himalaya,
alongside the wharf at Port Melbourne;
he was rehearsing when found. In the
States Chic has the usual ranch, where
he breeds his own steaks ; with him on
tour is a daughter who has a big part in
his show. They caught up with Ole
Olson in Sydney. Ole came by air.
Retired from active command last
week, Brigadier J. E. G. Martin, C.8.E.,
D. 5.0., E.D., of the 7th Infantry Brigade,
Queensland. A militia officer as far back
as 1923, Martin went away as C.O. of
the 2/9th Battalion early in Hitler’s war
and was in England for some time before
rejoining the main Australian forces in
the Middle East. His battalion had a
hand in the clearing of Giarabub, taking
1700 prisoners. Followed six months in
besieged Tobruk, then promotion to the
command of 19th Brigade. His C.B.E.
was for work in training and preparing
defences during the Battle of Britain ; the
D.S.O. for Tobruk.
• •
A job not many would relish has fallen
to Group-Captain John Cunningham,
chief test-pilot for De Havilland Aircraft,
who is to put a Comet jet-airliner as
nearly as possible through conditions
under which three of the breed have
mysteriously crashed. Cunningham
joined De Havillands in 1935 as an
apprentice and signed-on in the Auxiliary
Air Force in the same year. In the
R.A.F. right from the outbreak of war,
he commanded 604 Squadron and 85
Squadron, won a D.S.O. and two bars
and a D.F.C. and bar, finishing as
Group-Captain, Night Ops. H.Q. 11
Group. A test-pilot since 1946, he holds
the international height record for air-
craft, with an altitude of 59,446 ft. The
plane was a D.H. Vampire.
e o
“X.S.”: Two treasure-hunts are in pro-
gress in Victoria. While a syndicate of
graziers has been digging with bulldozers
for a pirate’s loot at Queenscliff a little
71-year-old man has been digging for a
larger fortune with pick and shovel on a
hillside at Inverloch. He is Donald
Nicholson, who claims that he wrote to
Lord Gowrie in 1940 asking for assistance.
Lord Gowrie passed his letter on to Mr.
Menzies, who passed it to the Army. A
detachment of soldiers, a colonel and
four mining-engineers deployed on Inver-
loch, surveyed and dug and tunnelled.
They were about to blow the face off
the hill when a runner tore up with a
stop-work order and the search was
called off—nobody seems to know why.
Donald’s story is that his grandfather
and three others were engaged in smugg-
ling stores to China during a rebellion.
They were paid in gold and, when the
sovereigns ran out, in priceless jewels
looted from Chinese temples. Instead of
depositing the booty in banks, for pre-
cautionary reasons they interred it at
Inverloch, and first one and then the other
died —grandfather, however, telling Don-
ald’s father of the plant, but enjoining him
not to dig it up until Donald had reached
the age of 21. The lad quarrelled with his
father, who told him to dig it up himself,
since when he has never stopped. He
reckons there’s £2OO million there and
he’s going to devote it to research in
medicine and physics,
• •
Arrived in Sydney to put on “Zip Goes
a Million” at the Tivoli, Emile Littler,
one of a family of theatrical producers—
his parents were lessees of the Royal
Artillery Theatre, Woolwich (Eng.); his
brother Prince and sister Blanche man-
aged theatres and produced many well-
known hits. Emile himself has been in
the theatrical game since boyhood, man-
aged Birmingham Repertory for Sir Barry
Jackson in 1931, and has been producing
on his own account since 1934, going
through the whole range—drama, musi-
cal-comedy, pantomime and farce, with
the acrent perhaps on pantomimes. On
the directorate of many London and
provincial theatres, including Drury Lane,
he is also a governor of the Memorial
Theatre at Stratford-on-Avon, where, in-
cidentally, he went to school.
• •
First student to gain a degree at the
University of Melbourne under the
Colombo Plan is Bishwajit Choudhury,
of the Ceylon Department of Agricul-
ture, who earned his Ph.D. with a thesis
entitled “Investigation into the Difficul-
ties of Inter-specific Hybridisation of
Lycupersicon.” That, by the way, is not
its Sinhalese title ; it’s scientific English
for something to do with tomatoes.
• •
“F.A.”; Passed the finishing-post at 78,
C. R. (“Jack”) Halloran, a crack amateur
jockey of half a century back, when
Bong Bong and Tiranna attracted not
only half the social swim of New South
Wales but many of the best thorough-
breds of the time. “Jack,” a great judge
of a horse and of pace, had gained his
experience as a jackeroo and station-
manager before joining Victor Dewhurst
in the mercantile life of Sydney. His
amateur contemporaries of the pigskin,
who included horsemen like Ken Austin,
Les McDonald, Billy Manning and Jack
King, were as well-known to racegoers
as the professional jockeys. King, by the
way, learnt enough of the game in their
company to head the list of winning
jockeys when he turned pro. a few years
later. Like his brother Ted Halloran,
who predeceased him, “Jack” won more
than one Corinthian and was as much at
home on the tailored turf at Randwick
as he was on the scrub tracks at outback
picnic meetings.
• •
Nominated as next year’s Moderator of
the Presbyterian Church of Victoria,
Rev. George Anderson, at present mis-
sioning in Korea. A graduate of Mel-
bourne University, he was ordained in
1916 and began his ministry at Port
Augusta (S.A.). Sent to Korea as a mis-
sionary in 1922 he put in twelve years
in that field before coming back to the
Australian ministry. Later, his Korean
experience secured him the post of foreign-
mission secretary, but he resigned this
three years ago to return to war-
shattered Korea.
• •
Met at Minj (architecturally almost
non-existent, but important because of
the series of talks on malaria-control
being held there), Carl Gunther, field
m.-o. of the Bulolo Gold Dredging Co.,
is an old-timer of New Guinea from 20-
odd years back. Medico of the valiant
New Guinea Volunteer Rifles before the
Japs landed at Rabaul, Gunther was in
Malaya, Deputy-Assistant Director of
Hygiene on A.I.F. staff, when they came
down the peninsula. Changi Diggers will
remember his ministrations during the
rest of that war —the R.S.L. made him an
WOGS
honorary life-member. Member also of
the Society of Entomologists (Sydney)
and of the Society of Tropical Medicine
and Hygiene (U.S.), Gunther is an expert
on what’* nnrW diemednn at TV/ftni •
na s under discussion at Mmj , he
has authored several world-accepted
books on malaria and scrub-typhus. Like-
ness bv Lusbv
y y '
, * *
When Wider gauges are used on rail-
ways R. J. Fitch will probably be there
tr> run thp trains on Vm T-Tc
t 0“ }[. ai A nS oa em - Start ., ott
with the W.A. Government Railways
and 3ft. 6in. gauge, then sought the
wider scope offered by the Common-
wealth’s 4ft. 8«n. tracks, becoming chief
civil-engineer at Port Augusta. His latest
appointment makes him Assistant Com-
missioner of the S.A. Railways with
main lines of sft. 3in.
• •
Bisbop of the North-West,
wno came to Westralia as a curate from
T - . - r-, , , . “ , “ ■ :
Lincoln in England in 1911, has just
celebrated his silver jubilee as a bishop.
Since 1929 he has looked after the wel-
fare of his widelv-disnerwd flnok of old
2 y C, fP® rs^ d flocK ot °l d >
modem and new Australians, regularly
flying many hundreds of miles over his
vast diocese. He celebrated his silver
jubilee by making his 682nd flight.
■' °
• •
“Uramao”: Under the Dominion Civil
Service Fellowship two Enzedders, Dr.
A T Tohns (chemist) and I W Ridlev
f\. i. jonns tcnemisi) ana J. w Kiaiey
(designing engineer), go to the U.S. for
advanced Study and travel. Johns, a
graduate of Canterbury College, served
with the Kiwis in Hitler’s war and was
liaison-officer with the Australian Army
iu scientific work. Ridley, B.Sc. and
8.E., ot the same college, Rhodes man
for 1945, was an engineer in the Ministry
of Public Works before engin®ering-on
. -.i, A •
with the Aimy variety in the Middle
East and Pacific.
Recorded with relish by Coventry,
artist Robert Campbell, the first director
of Queensland’s National Gallery, now,
at 51, director of Adelaide’s. Born in
Edinburgh, Campbell came here young,
earned a guinea or two with political
cartoons for Brisbane papers, and by 1929
had advanced to the point of selling 69
oils on the opening day of his first exhi-
bition in Melbourne, The proceeds took
PICTURES
him to England and the Continent, four
years of painting and travelling. On re-
turn he married the daughter of a Sydney
picture-dealer—she now an art critic.
• •
Sir Herbert Gepp, dead in Melbourne
at 76, had been a prominent scientific
and industrial figure since the early years
of the century, when he became Mel-
bourne manager of the Australian Ex-
plosives and Chemical Co. He had
already been abroad for experience with
Nobels, and in 1904 he went to Broken
Hill to join the Zinc Corporation. His
subsequent career in that industry in-
cluded the posts of manager, De Bavay’s;
g.-m.. Amalgamated Zinc; g.-m.. Elec-
trolytic Zinc. The Federal Government
sent him on a mission to America in 1915,
and in 1926 he became chairman of the
Commonwealth Development and Migra-
tion Commission. In the next 10 years
he served in several royal commissions,
notably those concerning the wheat, flour
and bread industries, and was director
of the Northern Australian Aerial Geo-
logical and Geophysical Survey, From
1936 until his retirement in 1950 he was
a director of Australian Paper Manufac-
turers. He published several books on
Australian development and was awarded
the Gold Medal of the Institute of Mining
and Metallurgy, London (1924), and the
Medal of the Australian Institute of
Mining and Metallurgy (1939).
• •
Into the Silence:
At 81, at his daughter’s home at Scone
(N.S.W.), pastoralist Sidney Napier Austin,
grandson of Mrs. Thomas Austin, founder of
Austin Hospital, Melbourne. He owned Barwon
Park, Winchelsea, and later Wambianna
(N.S.W.). The first Duke of Edinburgh and
Queen Victoria’s grandsons Albert and George
were entertained at Winchelsea.
At 69, in Melbourne, Harold Gaze, former
general-manager of the British Phosphate Com-
mission. He came to Australia in 1900, and,
when Britain, Australia and New Zealand
took over Nauru and Ocean Island, he was
appointed g.-m. He planned the resumption of
shipments in 1946 after the Japanese occupa-
tion, and in 1948 negotiated the purchase of
the Christmas Island deposits for Australia and
New Zealand.
At Kiama (N.S.W.), at 72, W. A. W. de
Beuzeville, former N.S.W. Government Ecolo-
gist. One of the leading authorities in Aus-
tralia on tree-propagation, he undertook
research in Victoria and Queensland, was on
loan to the C.5.1.R.0. for several years and
was responsible for the designing of banana-
farms on the N.S.W. North Coast.
In Sydney, at 61, Athol Hugh Stuart, former
general-manager of “The Sydney Morning
Herald.” Born in Louth (Eng.), he had his first
experience of journalism on Lismore (N.S.W.)
“Northern Star,” joined the “Herald” in 1916
as a reporter and served the Fairfax sheet in
many capacities, culminating as g.-m. from
1933 to 1938, when ill-health forced his retire-
ment.
At Ulverstone (Tas.), at 68, Phil Kelly, M.H.A.
for Darwin from 1922 to 1946, Honorary
Minister in the Lyons Ministry 1927-28, Chair-
man of Committees and Deputy-Speaker.
In Sydney, at 65, Lionel H. C. Shave, play-
wright and advertising executive. For many
years he ran his own advertising agency; later
he became a director of George Patterson Pty.,
Ltd. A number of his plays have been pro-
duced on stage and radio.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 86, Josiah Alfred
Hanan, who put in half a century in N.Z.
politics, including 26 years as Invercargill’s
representative. He was Attorney-General in
the short-lived Tam Mackenzie Government in
1912 and Minister for Education and Justice in
the Massey Coalition Government. Durham
University conferred on him an honorary D.C.L.
degree; he was the first native-born Chancellor
of the University of N.Z.


NOT SUFFICIENT INTRODUCTION


ABORIGINALITIES
T|/E’D been out of tobacco for a couple
’ ’ of days and old Bill was feeling
the pinch. He kept peering out at the
low-drifting rain-clouds and pessimistic-
ally calculating the supply-plane’s chances.
A string of plumed kanakas strutting by
reminded me we had a few sticks of
trade-tobacco. “It’s ail right if you shred
it down fine,” I said, “but mighty strong.”
The old bloke cut up an inch of the black
twist and hurriedly
rolled a smoke. A
burning stick from the
fire got it going, and
he sucked in till his
cheeks met. “Ahhh,”
he said, blowing out
the kind of smoke and
sparks seen at a Hindu
funeral. “Ahhh — kahat-
chah !” he sneezed vio-
lently. His face became
a minor Vesuvius and
his hands went to
his streaming eyes. A
burning piece of twist
went down one sleeve
and Bill leapt to his
feet, spluttering soot
and rubbing a scorched
elbow. “Sterewth! ”he
gasped, and relapsed
into a paroxysm of
coughing. Then, after a
period of recuperative
silence, holding up the
remains of the ciga-
rette: “And now,” he
complained, “the
bloody thing’s gone
out!” —“Ybsul.”
“Harbel”: Perhaps it’s as well that Will
Ogilvie went home to Scotland ; I don’t
think the man who wrote “For we’ve been
droving, too,” would approve of the new
trend, as related to me by a station-hand
down for the Sydney Show. “We’re fifty
miles from the railway-siding. The boss
goes in for beef-cattle. He used to pay
two drovers to drove ’em in small mobs
to the rail. That cost seven-pound-ten a
day. Ten miles a day was the most you
could push market-cattle over that route,
so that was thirty-seven-ten to get a couple
of truck-loads of beasts to the siding.
Not only that, but there had to be a gap
of a week between each trucking. Then
a bloke with a cattle-float made the boss
an offer, and got a trial. Now he’s doing
the lot. He does the trip in three hours,
the cattle are reaching the trucking-yard
in tip-top condition, and we’re getting
’em away from the station a lot quicker.
He’s making dough on it, the boss is
saving dough on it, and the cattle are
bringing much higher prices.” So, I
“ They've donated a million dollars. Professor —and this is the name
of the next galaxy.”
suppose, everybody should be happy—
:xcept . . . well, who could write a rol-
icking ballad about a cattle-float?
• • * •
“F.W.”: Just who is a horse-lover (B.
14/3/’54)? I’ve struck very few among
he horsemen I’ve known. A few of the
needers, perhaps; seldom the fellow
vho wears the horse along with his other
>adges; whip, spurs, and tight-legged
pants. At the Chinchilla (Q.) Show the
other day the old fellow watching the
camp-draft beside me began to reminisce
about a horse he’d owned. “He was the
finest horse I ever had. Certainly the best
I ever rode; in the brigalow ; anywhere.”
And then some of the mellowness that
comes only with age and the sentiments
of memory must have crept upon him.
He was quiet for a while; then, “But I
never treated him right,” he went on,
almost to himself, “I know that now —
I wish I had.” No, they don’t love ’em.
When they’ve finished with them they’ll
sefi them to anybody—dogmeat-butchers
included.
“Soon as I turn round he keeps nipping my ankles .”
“Heresone”: Balsa is not quite the
lightest of all woods (B. 17/3/’s4)that
distinction goes to gympie or nettle-tree,
a cubic foot of which weighs only 51b.
It rates low, however, as a timber. Flame-
tree (prickly corkwood) is about the same
weight as balsa, and kurrajong—some-
times used for the high soles of surgical
boots—is not much heavier. If “Cyda’s”
figure of 561 b. is right, then jarrah is
comparatively light. Many hardwoods
will sink in water (62.41 b. per cub. ft.).
* * ♦ •
“Baksac”: Not inbreeding but line-
breeding caused the colored rabbits
amongst the 60,000 that contractor dug
out (B. 31/3/ ’54). The fact that the two-
toned bunnies lived in a warren on their
own suggests that the normal-colored
rabbits would not mix with them; thus
they would be forced to breed within their
own little colony and perpetuate the
color-lines. Were inbreeding the cause of
colors every Australian rabbit would be
splashed with an alien color, since there
can be no creature in the world more in-
bred. Why he has not deteriorated in size,
disease-resistance or stamina is a puzzle
I’ve given up trying to solve. And here’s
another mystery; catch a rabbit kitten
when he’s just able to feed himself and
give him to a kid for a pet. He can be
put in a run that affords him plenty of
exercise, fed like a fighting-cock on all
the foods that would make a bush-bunny
nearly split his skin with condition, but,
though that fortunate animal may !mj
for seven or eight years, he will never be
full-grown. About threequarters of nor-
mal size is the best he’ll ever make,
* * * »
“Brick E.”: I quite agree with “Melbn*
that it’s a sin to plaster-over or paint good
brickwork (B. 31/3/’54), but alas that
he speaks with the voice of the multitude
about bricks. If that old church he men-
tioned was a little gem of early architec-
ture which later-day plastering spoiled,
the bouquet should not have been for the
“beautiful old hand-made bricks,” but
for the forgotten bricklayer whose skill
set the gem. No old hand-made bricks are
beautiful—they are twisted, uneven and
often out-of-square. If, laid, the bricks
look beautiful it is because the bricky
was tradesman enough to “humor” them
so that the discrepancies are not apparent
to the uninitiated. But we of the Cinder-
ella-trade have become resigned to the
layman’s evaluation of brickwork. He
sees a job that offends his eye and exclaims
(generally quite correctly): “Lord, it was
a rough bricklayer did that! ” But when
he sees a job that pleases him his praise
runs; “They’re nice bricks.”
♦ * * *
“Brid”; A bottle picked up at Picnic
Point, on Tassie’s North Coast, contained
a message which indicated that it had
been thrown overboard from m.v. Port
Vindex, four days west of Fremantle,
months before. In those 500 days it had
travelled 3500 miles, which isn’t bad
going, and may give an idea of the trend
of ocean-currents along the southern
coast of Australia and up through Bass
Strait to the spot where it was found.
Currents are curious things, though;
lately various items of fishing-gear
which got astray from the nor’-eastern
side of the island were discovered to
have travelled westward in the teeth of
strong westerly winds.
♦ ♦ ♦ «
“Fair Mac”: I know of only one good
reason why those abos (B. 31/3/’54)
should have used throwing-sticks instead
of returning-boomerangs when hunting
flying-game—they didn’t have ’em. And
that would not be remarkable. In spite
of popular belief, the boomerang was not
by any means a universally-used weapon.
The fact that phony samples are now
sold to tourists all over the continent
is merely an example of black brother’s
business acumen, not proof that his an-
cestors used the weapon. And isn’t
“Salmon Gums” rather peremptory with
his “Binghi wasn’t interested in roosting-
birds,” etc.? Different localities, different
hunting-customs. For instance, the
method he describes was not the most-
generally-used for catching ducks. Abo.
hunters from east to west practised this
system: Two swimmers slipped into the
water upstream from the flock. Each had
a small piece of concealing foliage tied
to his head. Thus he was able patiently
to work his way amongst the potential
poultry until he was in a position to
grasp a pair of legs. A swift downward
pull and the duck was gone, with no
noise or struggle to alarm the rest.
Drowned or strangled, the bird would be
shoved through the hunter’s belt and an-
other victim selected, and so on. As a
spearman, however, the abo. was not a
particularly good individual marksman:
he hunted in a pack and the victim fell
to one or two spears in a barrage that
came from all sides.
WE ARE THE RIVERS
We are the rivers that drain one-fifth of a
continent,
our streams running down to lessen the sea’s
salt at one meeting-place,
down from Kosciusko, down from Canberra,
down from the Eildon, down from
Queensland,
down from the Burrinjuck, down from Mt.
Lindsay, down from the Hume,
all carrying the story of the basin, of one-fifth
of the continent,
carrying the story of the people that dwell
there, and creating that story.
We are the rivers, the Murrumbidgee, the
Murray, the Lachlan, the Barwon,
Namoi and Mitta-Mitta, Goulburn and Culgoa
and Dry Paroo,
and we are the Macintyre, the Wakool, and a
hundred or more others never heard of
where the .cities sit staring out over the
monotonous oceans
with their backsides pointing unimaginatively
inland.
We cover the Wimmera and the Mallee, and
encompass Hell, Hay and Booligal,
and on us you’ll find the Bitch and Pups,
Hell’s Gate and Petticoat Island.
We are the rivers, we sprawl laughing and
idling over one-fifth of this continent,
dashing down past Corryong and whaling
along the Lachlan,
and you will never eat a meal in all the
Commonwealth
unless you bite on something that has come
from our tribal-grounds
■ rice, salt and mutton, beef and butter and
oranges,
apricot, spuds, pumpkin, and plums and pork
and peaches—
for we help to fill the bellies of eight million
people;
men and women and kids in every State and
the Islands
chew on our raisins and currants, spit out our
apple-pips,
and buy Murray or Murrumbidgee or Darling
sunshine from the butcher and grocer,
for we help to satisfy the hunger of every one
of you,
even if you’ve never heard of Mogil Mogil,
Whitton Ferry, or Yackandandah.
We are the rivers; saws scream unceasingly
among our redgum forests,
the parrots in the Murray pines and Pilliga
scrub scream back at them,
and phutt-phutt go the milk-boats in the lower
river,
and moo-moo go the cattle on their way up
to the snow-country after the thaw;
and Tom Grogan’s Run and Boundary Bend
and Ned’s Comer,
though a thousand miles apart, are likely to
get all mixed up *
with legends of the white bull of Wagga and
the brocken spectre of the Dargo High
Plains,
for there is a oneness about the rivers that
boundaries and State capitals
can never unscramble, nor unweave the thread
of one river entirely from its fellows.
The soil of our lands has been scarred by
sheep-hooves and cattle-hooves;
the mallee has been laid low for the plough;
our Condamine bells
have rung from ocean to ocean, chiming into
echoes of a Maranoa lullaby
and the song of Black Alice the Warrego gin
with a stick through her nose;
our songs sound over a thousand miles of
riverine country
spreading from the oil-wells of Roma down to
Currency Creek,
echoing over the bed of the ancient Moravian
sea
where sharks’ teeth in the Morgan cliffs recount
primeval history
and chippings beside vanished campfires still
give up their secrets.
We unite to flow slowly, irresistibly, down to
the ocean,
but most of the time you forget us, leaving us
neglected,
hearing of us only in frost-warnings over your
wirelesses
or lists of river-levels with placenames
mispronounced by A.B.C. voices;
we hardly ever make front-page news in your
city papers
except if there happens to be a fight at the
Mill in the grape-snatching season
or you read a few lines about the Darling
coming down forty miles wide
and chasing a few stray politicians back to
their wanrens in Sydney
—and then once again you forget all about
us and our huge chunk of country.
We are the rivers; you in your cities can
drowse safely by your imitation fires
tonight,
for we are working always to keep your
commerce flowing,
to keep your bellies filled and your woollen
blankets over you.
We are the rivers that are hardly even names
to you,
we are the rivers that you scarcely trouble to
remember,
but without us your concrete cities would never
have arisen,
would only be sleepy townships scratching out
an existence
like hens on a barren ledge at the edge of the
sea,
starving for want of our beef and fruit and
mutton, shivering for want of our wool,
because at your backs you did not have us, the
rivers,
the rivers that are unlike any others anywhere
in the world.
We are the rivers, and it is high time you
ceased to ignore us,
for we are the rivers that cherish one-fifth of
this continent in our sprawling arms.
S Jk.
IAN MUDIE.


IN India we were subject to a multitude
of Army regulations, rigidly enforced:
long sleeves and slacks after sundown ;
mosquito-nets and Dover’s cream; a
“dry” day every Thursday to break the
mosquito’s life-cycle; no fruit unwashed
in “pinky pani” ; no water unboiled or
unsteriiised ; rigorous fly-control. There
were periodic inoculations against typhoid,
typhus, smallpox and cholera. As a
result, the more virulent diseases were
uncommon among British troops, and
dysentery, malaria and sand-fly fever
were kept within reasonable bounds. I
now live in a small nor’-west N.S.W.
town which has a summer climate some-
what comparable to the upper Ganges
valley, and where none of these precau-
tions is taken. Mosquitoes abound, out-
of-doors we walk under dark aureoles of
flies, the sanitary arrangements are the
most primitive, and almost everyone
drinks the unfiltefed Darling water.
Recently the water-supply failed, and the
trouble was traced to a blockage in the
inlet-valve caused by one dead pig and
three dead pups. By Indian standards
most of us should be dead. Yet I have
seldom seen a more healthy community,
whilst the hospital’s work is almost con-
fined to maternity- and accident-cases. —
“R.N.”
♦ • ♦ *
“Emjai”: Remarkable carrying-power
in the voice is not the prerogative of the
abo. alone (B. 7/4/’54). When I was on
the northern Victorian fields, three wives
of Cousin Jack miners lived in our neigh-
borhood, with distances between them of
about a quarter of a mile. Often the
call went out from Liza, “Geor-gie, where
you to?” and the small son would come
scurrying from the bush half-a-mile or
more away. Or Liza would call Jane
over on the next hill, and the two would
stand on their back-doorsteps chatting
until Hannah, on the same wave-length
a quarter-mile beyond, came in on an all-
lines hook-up. Yet they never needed to
shout. Came a day when there was no
response from Georgie. The call went out
from Liza to Jane and Hannah, and in
no time reached every home around the
town: “Georgie’s lost!” The school-
master dismissed his classes to scour the
bush, and father was called home from
work. He found Georgie in the pantry
with a tin of jam. What he said was also
penetrating, but didn’t need to carry far.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Ingel Barr”: Held by the attacking
giant wasp, the cicada struck earth close
to me. Turning the paralysed victim on
its back, the captor dragged it over short
grass to the roadside. There he jumped
aboard, struck-up with his wings, and the
auto-sledge skidded along the smooth
dirt to the other side, the cicada’s wings
acting as sledge-runners. There followed a
steady haul across the grass to the creek.
At the edge of the water the insect fury
again got on deck, struck-up high wing-
speed, and the hydroplane streaked over
approximately 30ft. to the opposite bank.
I left the hunter bullocking his bacon up
the slope ahead.
♦ ♦ * •
“Spoke”; Heard an Old Australian
trying to describe to a New Australian a
woman whose nose turns up in scorn of
the world. “She’s that way,” he said,
“that if she gets into a rain-storm she’ll
drown.”
« * « *
“H.C.8.”: Just as practically everybody
in the bush will tell you that bandicoot
tastes exactly like sucking-pig, so every
freshwater fisherman insists there is noth-
ing more palatable than the freshwater
catfish (B. 31/3/’54). But I’ve struck
only one family that had, in actual fact,
eaten bandy (and they loved it). I’ve tried
several times to prepare the rat-like crea-
tures for the baking-dish, but invariably
the carcasses finished-up by being flung
into the bush. One old codger watched
my last job and drawled; “You might
be doin’ the right thing at that, son;
it don’t seem right for a man to eat what
a dog won’t, and I never saw a mong
that’d eat a bandicoot.” The catfish got
nearer the pan : I’d cut off the repulsive
head, wrestled the skin off, and was just
cleaning it when three or four white
worms about half an inch long wriggled
out of the gut. Every one of the four fish
had the parasites inside. The catfish
went the way of the bandicoots. Later a
fisherman informed me that 1 was ridicu-
lously finicky, all catfish have them—
it’s part of their digestive-system!
• » • •
“Pigskin Bagman”: Apart from crea-
tures which drink seawater as a matter
of necessity, or from habit formed over
generations, there are those which appear
either to drink it from choice or to be
completely indifferent to the saline con-
tent. Among regular drinkers on the
Barron River (Q.), in which we were
anchored for many months, were swiftlets,
swifts, flying-foxes, willy-wagtails and
the tiny grey Cairns warblers. Except in
flood-time the water in which our 20-odd-
footer lay was approximately the same
as that of the sea outside. Most remark-
able, to us, were the flying-foxes, which
would beat a passage across Trinity Bay
from their mangrove hideouts, swoop
repeatedly to drink the saltwater inside
the river, and then continue on to feed-
ing-grounds miles upstream, where the
water was normally fresh.
* * * ♦
“Wire-buster”: Once worked for a
fellow who had a contract for erecting
poles for electricity-reticulation. The
last eighteen inches of the hole had to
go into some of the toughest ground I’ve
ever tried to stick a crowbar into. To
make certain the holes were the correct
depth an official had had all the poles
marked at what would be ground-level
when they were in. To counter this, one
of the men went ahead of the erecting-
gang with a saw. He did as well out of it
as the boss —householders were eager to
buy those 18-inch butts for a bob a nob.
* * ♦ *
“Ybsul”: The plantation homestead is
something of a show-place—an oasis of
comfort for visiting Europeans, though
near-by natives have become blase about
its modern gadgets and devices. Was
staying overnight when a patrol-officer
walked in from an outpost. He had four
raw kanakas in tow, and our host showed
them over. There were sibilant intakes
of breath, round-eyed absorption and
much cautious feeling of textures and
surfaces. Identified as wood, the stair-
case, floors, furniture and wall-panelling
brought cries of amazement. Their palms
pressed against large window-panes, the
dark men goggled through the glass at
cloud-drenched casuarinas in the gather-
ing dusk outside. Turning back into the
room they shrugged helplessly; the glass
was beyond explanation. Electric-lights
flashed on, the polished cedar glowed.
then instantaneous darkness. Again the
lights—and ebon statues frozen in atti-
tudes of a ballet horror-scene. They
relaxed with loud “Ahhheees,” part-
fright and part-astonishment. Perhaps
by this time our guests were in no con-
“You've changed a bit, Charlie, since y' used t' git tight and pinch
th' C.O.'s jeep."
dition to withstand the final shock—the
roaring cascade conjured into being by
a smartly-tugged chain in the bathroom.
The sightseers leaped backwards, turn-
ing in mid-flight, and jammed pop-eyed
and gasping in the doorway. Badly
shaken, they were ushered into the peace
and comfort of the drizzling outer
darkness.
“O. K, Lee”: Goats (B. 31/3/’s4>?
Some years back in a Queensland shire a
number of aristocrats of the species were
imported, not as ambulatory garbage-
disposal units, but with the idea of rais-
ing the social status of the local goats in
the interests of better milk-production,
To his chagrin, the shire engineer, who
vainly vowed his ignorance of all things
genetic, was made studmaster. The first
report tabled showed that the engineer
had named each of the imported sires
after one of the councillors. Pinned to the
report was the engineer’s resignation,
which was perhaps as well, in view of the
Kinseyan strain in which the report was
written.
HUSBANDRY
A FTER the last lot of thumping bills I
decided there was only one thing to
do for the future ; cushion the shock by
getting three money-boxes—one each for
the telephone, electricity and gas—label
them, and put into each one every week
sufficient approximately to cover the bill.
It would also have the effect of giving
Agapanthus a long-overdue training in
home-economics. Women, I find, have
only the vaguest notion of such matters.
“But tonight we play cards again — eh, Kana?"
If one can train a dog to sit up and beg
and carry in the each morning,
surely a woman could be trained, by
using kindness mixed with the firm hand,
to be methodical in household finance.
The slap-happy methods which she had
long-favored would be replaced with one
of masculine logic. Her method of crude
accountancy —jotting the total of what
something came to on the nearest scrap
of paper, which as likely as not would be
a face-tissue which she would use to wipe
off the nourishing-cream—would be fin-
ished with.
So when, about three months after I
had instituted the change, the next gas-
bill came in I regarded it with contempt.
“Now this,” I said impressively, “is
where we begin to garner the fruits of
foresight and prudence. The calculated
sum set aside each week, plus the odds
and ends of change with which I have been
supplementing it—how much more effici-
ent than the old hit-or-miss way! Hand
me a knife, somebody.”
Thrills of a sort there
may be in water-skiing,
crocodile-shooting, landing
a 15001 b. shark or climb-
ing the last few feet of
Everest, but they are small
compared with that of
operating on a heavily-
laden money-box with a
knife. With the others you
more-or-less know what to
expect; with a money-
box it’s different. As time
has gone on you have for-
gotten exactly what you
put in. You might even
have put in more than you
need to meet the bill!
It took twenty minutes
of patient juggling and
manoeuvring to get the last
of the coins out —my haul
comprised three trizzies, 28
ha’pennies and 17 pennies.
“A total of three-and-
fourpence!” I rasped,
when at last my power of
speech was restored:
“How do you account for
it? I certainly haven’t
been ratting it.”
“Oh, I think I owe it
something," said Agapan-
thus airily—it irked me to
observe nothing at all of
penitence in her face.
“I’ve got it all jotted down somewhere.
Let me think , . . Oh, yes, Joan had to
have her racquet restrung, and so I’d
know exactly the amount to put back I
wrote out an IOU —I think it’s under the
tea-caddy. It’s only a matter of putting
that back from the next pay and it’s just
the same as if it had never been taken
out,
“Then there was that jacaranda-blue
wool I got for that twin-set I’m knitting—
the fools sent it out c.o.d. when I wasn’t
expecting it. The bank had closed and
I didn’t have enough ready-money in my
purse, when I thought of the bill-money.
I certainly blessed that money-box! I
was thinking the man would have to take
it back and X wanted to get a start on with
it. The lOU for that is either in one of
the cream-jars or behind where the bread-
board’s kept. Anyway, it’s quite safe.”
“That’s all very well,” I cut in, “but
that doesn’t get over the fact that there’s
only three-and-fourpence left to meet a
bill of nearly seven pounds.”
“But that’s silly—it couldn’t have all
gone. There were only two other things
I used it for: I had to have the ends of
my perm, done —I’d have looked a posi-
tive fright going to Jennifer’s wedding with
my hair like it was —and of course I got
those pearl drop-earrings that were going
at Sleet’s for less than half-price.”
“But what on earth’s the use of putting
money by for a specific purpose?” I ex-
postulated. “Now I’ll have to take it
from the phone-box money to make it
up.”
I operated again with the trusty knife.
The phone money-box yielded a sixpence,
32 pennies and 11 ha’pennies.
“At least,” I observed sarcastically,
when the last ha’penny was counted, “it
is up threepence-ha’penny on the other.
What was this used for —did you put some
Russian sables on the lay-by?”
“Don’t be silly, dear. Anyone would
think you had an extravagant wife.
Bones’s were selling paper-shantung end-
of-the-season suits in the latest gunmetal
shade for only seven guineas, just half
of what they were two months ago. I’d
have never got a bargain like it again.
It’s coming home to-morrow. You’ll love
it! And don’t forget you’ve saved seven
guineas. Now aren’t you glad you started
this money-box idea? If I weren’t as keen
a shopper as I am we’d be much worse
off than we are. When you come to work
it out, I’ve practically got that suit for
nothing .”
I groaned and reached for the electric-
light tin. My worst fears were realised:
one-and-fivepence.
“Oh, that’s easily explained,” said Aga-
panthus lightly. “When I took the money
out of the gas-bill tin for the restring,
the wool, the permed-ends and the ear-
rings, I took the exact amount out of the
electric-light tin to make it up. But that
was the day they were advertising those
ducky little velour pillboxes. You said
yourself they suit me”
Three boxes, total yield Bs. 4id.!
When a woman and economics meet in a
race you can bet that economics will be
beaten by a head with a dinky little new
hat on it.
Bo.


Ordering Sherry, Sweet or fiy P
(U
Wa
ft**
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO VIVIAN ROBERT ANDREWS late of
Oma Residential 483 Pitt Street Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that DAPHNE BLVA
ANDREWS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 78 of 1968 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 21st June 1954
and obtain a copjfc of the petition without
charge from L. W. WILLIAMS, Solicitor,
of 79-81 Oampsie Street, Oampsie, by
JONES, JONES & JONES, Solicitors, of
183 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUQHAN,
Registrar.
'' :
I ■ I
> '
mm
mm
m
■ m
I
% 1
X •
. s
1
II i
v. .•
I Mi
I*
■
m
Tou asked for Benson 6f Hedges cigarettes , Sir
Fitting accompaniment to smoothly
luxurious travel, HENSONaU HEDGES
Super Virginia cigarettes are made
from the finest of fine tobaccos with
unhurried, untiring care for all those
occasions when only the best will do.
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
THE LATE KING GEORGE
//se
. wfcM j/o'
g
Benson & Hedges Ltd . are proud to announce that their Super Virginia cigarettes are available
on the world’s most famous airways , including all routes served by the following: —
BRITISH EUROPEAN AIRWAYS • BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION • AER LINOUS
SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES SYSTEM • QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS • AIR CEYLON • AIR FRANCE
BL-AL ISRAEL AIRLINES • AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRWAYS • MALAYAN AIRWAYS
CYPRUS AIRWAYS • BRITISH COMMONWEALTH PACIFIC AIRLINES • SABENA • BRITISH
WEST INDIAN AIRWAYS • TRANS-AUSTRALIAN AIRLINES • PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS
TRANSPORTES AEROS PORTUOUESES • CENTRAL AFRICAN AIRWAYS
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
«nr/u4
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Market Lethargy
In spite of the generally inspir-
ing production-figures that were
published here last week, the
market for industrial shares
remains indifferent. A feeling of
lethargy pervades the Stock
Exchanges'(excep t in the oil and
mining section), and some attrac-
tive yields are to be obtained
from good second-line stocks.
Bradford Cotton yielding 6 p.c.
is unusual, and 6.5 p.c. from
R. B. Davies Industries has not
been obtainable for some time.
Minster showing the same yield
is attractive, and F. W. Hughes at
18s. 3d. is at its lowest for months
—yielding 6.6 p.c. Some of the
front-liners are still keenly priced
—Wool worths to show 3.8 p.c.,
B.H.P. 3.8 p.c., Tooth 4.1 p.c.,
W. H. Soul 3.6 p.c. and Queens-
land Insurance 3.6 p.c.
The market appears to expect
a final of 10 p.c. (making 15 p.c.
for the year) in the case of both
Swans and Frederic Ash (it is
paying 50s. for Swans, 48s. for
Ash) and it appears to have
justification. Last year's
12i p.c. was more than twice
covered in Frederic Ash’s case,
and amply covered in Swans’.
There has been substantial tax-
relief since then, as well as a
decided recovery in building
activity.
Kandos Cement 16s. shares
at 335. 3d. and yielding
4.8 p.c., and Australian
Cement £1 shares at 365. 6d.,
yielding 4.4 p.c., are worth
anyone’s attention. The cement
business is extraordinarily busy,
and the Victorian side of the
Kandos combination will shortly
have a very large output. Aus-
tralian Portland Cement, in
which Kandos and Australian
Cement have equal interests, does
the manufacturing both in N. S.
Wales and Victoria, with the
larger capacity now in Victoria.
Metropolitan Cement (Sydney)
is in a different investment
category. It has very big produc-
tion and finance problems to
overcome.
Taking record cement-manu-
facturing into account, record
clay-brick production, record tile
output and record timber-milling,
it would appear that most trades
dependent on the building
industry should be busy. This is
supported by the output figures
for refrigerators, washing-
machines and radios, though
stoves are not up to the record
of 1950-51. Mattress-production
is again at a record level.
Builders’ hardware, galvanised-
iron, water-piping, etc., is in
strong demand, though there is
now a better supply of most of
these products. Masonite is not
always immediately available in
some States, though production
has been increased considerably.
The motor trade has picked up
a good deal, even that lame duck,
Peter Lloyd Industries, Ltd.
(N.S.W.), reporting a “reasonable
profit” for the period from July
1 up till now. York Motors’
profit to Nov. 30 last was slightly
lower, but the 30 p.c. div. was
maintained. Earnings are
stronger in the current term.
There has been a steep
recovery in sales of motor-
car tyres, and production recently
has been at a rate never before
equalled. Dunlop and Olympic
should make a better showing in
the current year.
Selective investment should
still show some investors a
capital profit by the end of 1954.
How far the present market
slackness is likely to go is any-
body’s guess. Reasons of
personal finance in the face of
income-tax commitments may be
a factor for present market quiet-
ness—-it often is at this time of
the year. There have been, also,
some rather disquieting com-
ments from the Tariff Board
regarding lack of efficiency in
some industries. But there have
been probably an equal number
of congratulatory remarks. As
mentioned, it is a time for selec-
tive investment, because, without
doubt, efficiency in management
will tell its own tale as the year
“Can't you read ?”
goes on. With production
increasing at a fast pace the
unhealthy industrial unit is likely
to wither when its more strongly-
rooted and vigorous competitor
starts to flourish.
Austral-Malay and Titanium
Austral-Malay Tin, which has
been testing, under option, the
Jerusalem Creek (Evans Head,
N.S.W.) property of Titanium
Minerals, Ltd., reports that the
area is not considered, “in the
light of present knowledge,” to
carry tin ore in sufficient quantity
to justify the installation of plant
for its recovery.
Results from the first series of
samples were reported by
Austral-Malay to be promising ;
the results were passed on to
Titanium Minerals with reserva-
tions as to checking. (It was
leakage of information concern-
ing these samples, with reports
of 3|lb. values, which sent
Titanium ss. shares up to
325, 6d.) Austral-Malay dis-
patched duplicates of some of
these samples to five other
authorities. Figures from four
of these sources “all show very
much lower tin-content than
indicated by the first assays,”
Austral-Malay now reports. A
parcel of material sent by
Austral-Malay to the C.5.1.R.0.
for testing actual recovery of
tin, titanium minerals and gold
has not yet been reported on.
Titanium Minerals was formed
originally to work the property
for zircon, rutile and ilemite.
About 180 acres was bored by
the Bureau of Mineral Resources
and G. H. and J. A. Watson
Pty., Ltd., for results said by the
company to disclose mixed
minerals averaging 4.3 grains
gold, 6.91 b. tin-oxide and a high
percentage of zircon, rutile, etc.
Following Austral - Malay’s
announcement on Wednesday of
last week, Titanium ss. shares
crashed from 21s, 6d. in the
afternoon to 4s. 9d. on the fol-
lowing morning. The co. has an
issue of 255,000 ss. shares, and
in recent weeks there had been
extensive trading in the scrip,
with much forward dealing, and
a multitude of rumors circulating.
There is a good deal that the
investor will not understand about
the whole unsatisfactory business.
It can only be assumed at this
stage that the mixed nature of
the mineral wash has misled
experts, in the first instance, in
placing a higher tin-content on
the ore than has been confirmed
by laboratory analysis. But at the
weekend Austral-Malay had not
stated whether it would or
wouldn’t exercise its option over
the Evans Head property.
W.A. Petroleum
No. 1 drill at Rough Range
(W.A.) has gone down to 7960 ft.;
“there has been no significant
change in the character of the
rocks penetrated, which continue
to be quite hard,” W.A.
Petroleum states. (The oil-sands
were encountered at just below
3600 ft.)
The first of four geological
parties which will operate in the
field this winter left Perth last
week. Two parties will work in
selected areas between Albany
and Port Hedland, and two in the
Kimberleys between Port Hed-
land and Wyndham. Each party
will include two geologists.
Ampol Exploration, which
owns a 20 p.c. interest in W.A.
Petroleum, is issuing four million
ss. ords, at par, one-for-one, to
those on the register on April
28. The money is needed to
provide Ampol’s share (about
£540,000) out of a total of
£2,700,000 which is to be spent
this year by W.A. Petroleum
There will also be substantial
commitments in 1955.
Of the 4,000,000 ss. shares
already issued by Ampol
Exploration, Ampol Petroleum
holds 2,800,000, and 1,200,000
are held by the public. Ampol
Petroleum has already provided
for its portion of the issue by
the capital it recently raised from
its own shareholders.
During 1954 W.A. Petroleum
aims to complete Rough Range
No. 1 well and transfer the rig to
Cape Range, also to buy another
rig and drill six development
wells in the Rough Range area.
An additional rig will drill south
of Rough Range, and another
will start in the Fitzroy Basin,
south of Derby.
Moina
Moina Tungsten-Tin Mining
Co., N.L., hopes to commence
marketing of jig concentrates
within three or four months.
Work on the shaft has been com-
pleted, and winding of ore
broken by the previous co.
has begun. With tin and tungsten
prices both showing signs of
recovery (tin has reacted some-
what), Moina 35.-paid shares
have liftted from 3s. 6d. to 4s. 3d.
over the past fortnight. The co.
has an issue of a million shares,
of which 189,900 are fully-paid
to ss,


Legal Notice
IN THE ESTATE OF HANNAH MARY
HELEN SEXTON.—Pursuant to the
Order of the Supreme Court of the
State of Victoria made in the matter
No. 252 of 1953 in which Arthur Sexton
Oudmore and Allan Roderick Henderson
as executors of the Will of Hannah
Mary Helen Sexton deceased are plain-
tiffs and Eileen Taylor and others are
defendants DANIEL SEXTON (who was
bom about 1859 and was the son of
Daniel Sexton and Maria Sexton [maiden
name Bromell] and was last heard of
as residing at Lygon Street Carlton Vic-
toria in 1897) or any person claiming
as his child to be entitled as next of kin
of the said Hannah Many Helen Sexton
or the legal personal representative of
the said Daniel Sexton or of such child
who has died subsequent to the 11th
October 1950 are by his or her solicitor
on or before the 3lSt day of May 1954
to come in and prove his or her claim
at the office of the Master of the
Supreme Court William Street Mel-
bourne in default whereof he or she will
be peremptorily excluded from the benefit
of the said Order The Eighth day of
June 1954 at 11 o’clock in the forenoon
at the said office is appointed for adjudi-
cation upon the claims.
Dated the 19th day of March, 1064.
ERIC S. VANCE, Master of the Supreme
Court.
WEIGALL & CROWTHER, Solicitors, 340
Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
LINKING
MANUFACTURERS
■ *
V: .
ft
N.'
m
13S
WITH
MARKETS
New markets and new sources of supply are
constantly being uncovered through A.N.Z. Bank s
Trade Enquiry Service.
This service, operated through thousands of A.N.Z.
Bank’s agents in all parts of the world makes a
most important contribution toward the maintenance
and expansion of Australia’s oversea trade.
A.N.Z. Bank's Trade Enquiry Service is available
to Australian businessmen through the Manager of
the Bank’s nearest branch.
A-N-Z
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
BANK OF THE UNION BANK
AUSTRALASIA • OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Established 1835 Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and Now Zealand, in Fl|l, and in London.
Agents in all parts of the world
———oa 3550
& & <D
Si
if
' w 1
m
Pfvi
m
V
'SSS
- ■ • ’• - '
It
\
M i
i' : i
K«1
•;; -
•■- '\ r
m
as
m
m
mm
m
suoueomniuuios
AT MOST AIRFIELDS the pilot
does not have to give advance warn-
ing of his fuel requirements, for a
green and yellow fueller of BP
Aviation Service will be ready to
meet him. But at some lonely air-
fields in the hills or desert conditions
have not changed much since
supplies of BP gasoline were specially
laid down for Alan Cobham’s
pioneering survey flight from London
to Capetown in 1925.
At such places the pilot must state
his requirements. While he is still
in the air a signal will have to be
sent so that, on his arrival, his needs
will be met with the same courtesy
and attention that he has come to
expect at larger airfields.
AVIATION
ĝ
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
(Marketers for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
LTD.
6/S3
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
N.Z. Softwoods
Already, while the N.Z. soft-
woods industry is still only warm-
ing up, marketing is beginning to
take an important hand. In less
than two years there will be a lot
of stuff to export and sell in com-
petition with other producers.
Australia is the place where
N.Z. plans to make its bid for a
large share of the international
market.
Even with all its mills operating
by 1956, felling and milling will
be some way behind the growth
of the trees, and there’s an
urgency in the export drive which
is understandable in these
circumstances, as 100-odd Aus-
tralians interested in timber
learnt when they attended the
national timber conference at
Rotorua at the end of February.
New Zealanders, from the Prime
Minister, Mr. Holland, down-
ward, were nearly falling over
each other in their eagerness to
talk business and to demonstrate
the qualities and uses of their
radiata pine. The P.M. forecast
that N.Z. exports, mainly timber
and pulp, would be trebled in a
few years’ time, when more mills
would be producing and news-
print and more grades of com-
mercial paper would be added.
The P.M. told the Australians
that N.Z. was “turning over a
new leaf” in its national develop-
ment, and predicted the day
would come when the exotic
timber industry would be “well
on the way” to matching butter,
meat and wool in the country’s
trade.
Among export markets, none
can rival Australia in the eyes of
N.Z, timber-men, and there’s
nothing so important as clearing
away the barriers to trade across
the Tasman. N.Z. looks on this
as a joint or co-operative effort,
with as many potential gains for
the buyer as the seller. Today
Maoriland caters for only a
fraction —less than a tenth —of
the Australian market for
imported softwoods (300 million
board-feet), but it aims to lift
the proportion to a fifth in the
next two years. This will call for
a major sales campaign, backed
by a grading service as a
guarantee of the quality of all
timber shipped, and will test out
N.Z.’s organising- as well as
selling-capacity. Critical Aussies
made clear they didn’t want
unsuitable sizes, grades and “left-
overs.”
One of N.Z.’s key men, W. C.
Ward, inspector in charge of the
commercial division of the State
Forest Service, is seeking a close
working partnership and inter-
change of information between
N.Z, exporters and Australian
importers, along with more atten-
tion to seasoning and kiln-drying
before shipment, to place N.Z.
pine on a competitive level with
Baltic, European and North
American softwoods. Ward says
enough radiata pine will be
turned out to meet the whole of
Australia’s demand for second-
and third-grade timbers, but
N.Z. can’t undertake to supply
sufficient first-grade stuff, “either
now or in the future.” This
means that N.Z. is more
interested in the trade in flooring
and lining than in weather-
boarding. Probably this is also
the pattern for N.Z. supplies to
other markets that will be opened
up as the years go by.
Old prejudices against radiata
pine, once a despised timber
except for box-making and other
makeshift uses, have been dying
quickly as the much-prized kauri,
rimu, totara and other valuable
native timbers have been grow-
ing scarcer and dearer. N.Z. has
had to revise many traditional
ideas about what timbers should
be used for home-building and
construction generally. Most of
the remaining objections are con-
nected with the grading and
standards of pine placed on the
market, some of it not up to the
mark set by building-inspectors
or by Government institutions
interested in housing.
To win full confidence and
approval, the timber cos. will
have to give more attention to
grades and seasoning. Probably
all the difficulties are a sign of
immaturity and will disappear as
the industry gains in knowledge
and experience. Experts who are
now directing operations are
working on different lines from
the men who destroyed a great
deal of N.Z.’s irreplaceable native
timber wealth by wasteful
practices which would not be
tolerated today. The highly
mechanised mills, with sapwood
and off-cuts pulped for wallboard
and paper, are designed to match
the best overseas performance.
Hotels
So long as Maoriland public-
houses can show a good profit
on beer, the cos. that own most
of these places under the tied-
house system should be able to
pay good divs., but while guest
business is the “poor sister” of
the liquor trade tourist traffic
can make no headway.
Although everyone wants
N.Z. to earn more sterling and
dollars from tourists, the industry
is stagnating, and no one seems
able or willing to do anything
about it. When one of the
makers of policy, knight William
Bodkin, Minister of Internal
Affairs, blurted out lately that
the Government had “fallen
down on the job” and would have
to “build up its sales organisa-
tion,” there was an astounding
admission of failure from a
source where action was to be
looked for. This knight figured
out that MX. could treble its
tourist income —surely a modest
estimate for a country so rich
in scenic, and sports assets. On
the same day, another architect
of policy, Minister of Industries
and Commerce John Thomas
Watts, took an opposite line in
pointing to the return hotel-
operators were getting on their
money and to other obstacles
besides price-control. He could
have mentioned building permits,
the 40-hour week and meal-hour
limits that often nettle tourists.
Talk in other circles of need
for a publicity campaign to bring
crowds of tourists to MX.
seemed to be putting the cart
before the horse, and should have
been left until the tourist trade
was freed from its obstacles.
First of all MX. needs a chain
of first-class hotels, but no one
will spend millions on building
them when the industry is in a
straitjacket and service has to
be sold so cheaply by overseas
standards. Heads of the industry
think the situation stupid or
quixotic, according to their
mood.
For instance, F. H. Drewitt,
president of the Licensed Vic-
tuallers’ Association, has been
asking the Government whether
th industry is to be freed or
subsidised, and how hotels can
go on supplying food, service,
linen, furnishings and lodgings
for an average of 30-bob a day
when more than this amount is
swallowed up in food and wages.
Says he: “The whole thing is a
pantomime. Hotel accommoda-
tion is the Cinderella, with price-
control as * the Wicked Step-
mother.”
Parking Problem
Business has been fidgeting
uncomfortably in Auckland
under gradual hardening of the
city’s arteries, an ailment which
has come to Auckland at a much
earlier age than to many other
cities, and is showing most of the
symptoms seen in Sydney and
Melbourne, which are five times
its size. It must be the world’s
smallest city with a traffic prob-
lem on this scale, all complete
with rush-hour bottlenecks,
trams, buses and cars moving at
a crawl, and an outsize parking
problem. Auckland ran into
trouble early because of its
position, astride all north-south
highways, its urban sprawl,
scattered suburbs, high ratio of
cars to Aucklanders and the
crazy arrangement of two dozen
local authorities for a population
of about 370,000.
Auckland has tried fines,
parking-meters and zoning to
clear the streets, but the only
cure is off-street parking, which
will come next. For a start
three six-deck parking-stations
will be built at a cost of
£600,000-odd, to take 1500 cars,
and more should soon follow.
With an average of 500 cars
apiece, Auckland could do with
a dozen within a few years. The
pioneering scheme, to cost a
quarter of a million, is planned
by the Farmers Trading Co.,
N.Z.’s biggest department-store
and credit-selling organisation.
If business shows it can make
a good thing out of parking the
worst of the battle should be
won.


over your Will may be serious for your dependents
PROCRASTINATION in Estate Planning and Will-making—
and in bringing a Will up-to-date—has robbed many a family of
its just share of an Estate.
If you desire to make your Will—or bring it up-to-date—you
are invited to call and discuss the matter beforehand with Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited.
The Company’s wide experience will probably enable it to
offer practical suggestions so that the maximum of your Estate
will become available to your beneficiaries.
If, when making your Will, you appoint Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as your Executor and Trustee—alone or jointly
with a relative or friend—you will be following the lead of many
prudent men.
Ring B 0377 to-day—or write—and make an appointment —
without obligation. If you prefer, ask that a copy of the Company’s
helpful booklet on this subject be sent to you.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE. AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
Directors: Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; B. B. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. B. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HOBDERN; JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ABMYTAQE, Managing Director. TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £73,000,000 W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager,
it a
:■
33-39 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
WAGOA WAGOA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANGB.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd.
"P VOLUTION of the variety-chain-
store is one of the most profitable
developments of modem merchandising
methods. Woolworths is one of the two
big variety-chains which operate through-
out the Commonwealth, and activities
extend to New Zealand as well. Behind
the popularity of the co.’s scrip in the
equity market lies a long and unbroken
ran of robust earnings and divs., sweet-
ened with periodic issues of bonus-scrip
and of new shares for cash on favorable
terms, and a big programme of expansion,
not yet complete
In furtherance of this programme,
those on the ord. register at June 15 are
to be offered 3,427,485 new ss. ords. one-
for-four, at par, payable in full on or
before September 30, 1954. The issue will
lift paid capital to £4,559,356 in 75,000
10 p.c. and 200,000 7 p.c. prefs., all of
£1 each, and 17,137,424 ss. ords. On that
lot the pref. divs. and 15 p.c. to the ords.
would call for £664,153, or £36,169 more
profit than was claimed last term. That
means that the £856,871 of new ord.
capital would have to net only 4.2 p.c. to
give a bare 15 p.c. div. cover on the basis
of last term’s rate of net earning. The
year’s £627,984 of profit was equal
to 13.5 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined). So,
subject to economic developments,
the co. looks like being able to
earn sufficient to maintain a 15
p.c distribution on the increased ord.
capital.
The market expresses its confidence in
the continued growth of the organisation
by pricing the f.-p. ss. ords. at 19s. lid.
After exercising the rights to the new
issue, net cost would be 17s. l£d. per
share, at which figure the return would
be only 4.4 p.c. on a 15 p.c. distributibn,
and the rights would have a theoretical
value of 12s. Id. The obvious expecta-
tion is that shareholders will be asked to
assist again in the not-too-distant future.
But exactly when and to what extent will
depend mainly upon the rate of growth—
Australia’s population has increased by
about 23 p.c. over the last decade —and
upon the method or plan of finance the
board has decided to follow.
The group, with headquarters at
Sydney, consists of parent and eight sub-
sidiaries (including the N.Z. co.), which
together operate a chain of 170 stores
—the last dozen of which were opened
during the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts —scattered throughout the Com-
monwealth and New Zealand. About 80
p.c. of the merchandise handled is nor-
mally bought on the Australian market
and the balance overseas.
Of the four major factors affecting the
volume and character of trade, namely
level of personal net incomes, Govern-
ment spending, growth of population and
availability of goods, personal incomes
have the most immediate impact on trade,
while growth of population exerts the
greatest long-term influence.
Last term import restrictions were pro-
gressively relaxed, the economic baro-
meter rose as the year advanced, the co.’s
turnover (amount not stated) increased
“substantially,” and so did net
earnings:
, Dividends
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 17i p.c. serves.*
.g £ At At £/
1950 .. 323,110 7500 14,000 230,278 1,282,304
Share premiums, £382,828 .. .. 1,665,132
1951.. 359,882 7500 14,000 286,438 1,717,076
Reserves capitalised, £685,656 ..1,031,420
Added insurance reserve, £98,488 ..1,129,908
12 p.c.
1952.. 516.533 7500 14,000 411,298 1,213.645
Reserves drawn upon, £20,784 .. 1,192,861
1953 . . 454,915 7500 14,000 411,298 1,214,978
Reserves drawn upon, £29,151 .. 1,185,827
1953 tax provided, £350,000 .. .. 835,827
15 p.c.
1954 .. 627,084 7500 14,000 5X4,122 928,189
•After deducting goodwill (£165,227).
The 1954 profit figure is not strictly com-
parable with those of previous years,
which are shown after deducting tax
assessments received and actually paid
during each year. Last term, for the
first time, provision was made (£230,000)
out of the year’s earnings for taxation
payable thereon, thus enabling the true
net figure to be stated. To meet assess-
ments yet to be received in respect of earn-
ings up to January, 1953, £350,000 has
been set aside out of accumulated savings.
The year’s £627,984 of profit covered the
pref. divs. (£21,500) and 17.7 p.c. on ord.
capital. The div. was lifted from 12 p.c.
to 15 p.c. again, making the average dis-
tribution over the last decade 15 p.c.
The lift in the div. might be taken as an
indication that the board is satisfied with
the outlook.
Excluding the N.Z. co. and after setting
aside £499,620 for taxation, combined net
earnings of parent and subsidiaries was
£797,290, subject to divs. on £693,393 of
pref. capital in subsidiaries held by out-
siders. Combined profit before tax
was £1,296,910 (up £264,969).
Continued all-round expansion is the
feature of balance-sheet figures:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital ~ £3,702,486 £3,702,485 £3,702,485
Reserves .. .. 1,378,830 1,880,202 1,093,413
Depreciation ~ 505,590 550,776 . 619,526
Staff fund.. .. 48,000 48,000 48,000
Overdraft .. .. 722,147
Creditors, etc. .. 745,771 776,586 1,444,619
Tax provision .. 410,362
Final divs. .. 250,674 250,674 858,498
£7,353,536 £6,708,723 £7,671,902
Freeholds .. 10,092 10,583 10,092
Leaseholds .. 127,167 240,725 253,204
Plant .. .. 677,456 933,115 991,047
Shareholdings* .. 2,538,767 2,776,259 3.891,871
Stocks .. .. 2,178,906 1,195,695 1,787,247
Debtors! .. .. 1,636,638 388,222 348.048
Cash .. .. 19,283 998,897 230,166
Goodwill .. .. 165.227 165,227 165,227
£7,353,586 £6,708,723 £7,671,902
* Subsidiary and associated cos., etc. f Includes
advances to subsidiaries —£1,498,991, 1952;
£363,637, 1953; £235,808, 1954.
To help finance the growth of subsidiary
and associated cos. £1,115,612 was added
to shareholdings. Stocks (in at cost or
valuation) increased by £591,552, and
plant by £57,932. To meet the outlay
cash was drawn upon for £768,731,
debtors’ balances were reduced by £45,174
and £688,033 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc. Surplus
earnings and provisions provided the
balance.
The group plans to open 15 new stores
during 1954—six in Victoria, four in
N. S. Wales, three in Queensland and one
each in Westralia and the A.C.T.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
ALTHOUGH the div, remained steady
at 15 p.c., and has done so for the
last decade, the price of the co.’s f.-p.
£1 shares advanced from a low of 50s. 6d.
in 1953 to 645. last week. The immediate
return at 645. is only 4.3 p.c, at
the current rate of distribution.
Net tangible cover at Feb. 28 last was
48s. Bd., and assets are known to be
well worth their book-value. The well-
protected 8 p.c. prefs. (£lO,OOO in a paid
capital of £361,271) seldom appear on
’Change.
Certainly last term’s net eara->
ings shot up to a record £101,330, or
nearly twice the amount the divs. called
for. But the main reason behind the rise
in price of the scrip is expectation of a
new share-issue on favorable terms to
help finance erection of a new building
adjoining the old store in King-street,
Sydney; and when the building is com-
plete more working capital will be needed
for additional stocks, book-debts, plant,
etc. No hint is given as to what the total
cost of the new premises, etc., will be, or
of how much shareholders are likely to
be asked for. The investor at 645. who
looks for 5.6 p.c. on his money counts
on, say, a one-for-one new issue of ords.
at par and a 12 p.c. distribution.
In April, 1953, the co. bought
the freehold of Nos, 78-80 King-
street, Sydney, which it already
occupied on a leasehold basis, for
£160,000, which is less than the V.-G.’s
current valuation, the chairman says.
Then, following court proceedings, the
co. gained vacant possession of the ground
floor, as from May 31 next, of Otis
Chambers, which adjoins the first-men-
tioned property.. These chambers were
bought by the subsidiary, W. T. Waters
and Co. Pty., in 1938. Demolition of the
old buildings is to begin within a couple
of months. The co.’s remaining (original)
premises, which face King- and George-
street, are at one of the busiest inter-
sections in the city.
Those on the register have never
failed to receive a div. over the
last 34 years, the average being
a shade under 12 p.c., and they
have good reason to feel satisfied with
the way in which the business stood up
to the import flood, and the difficulties
to which it gave rise, as well as with the
resilience of earnings since:
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1945 . . 59,237 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 44,709 14,528 250,895
1946 .. 51,830 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 7,121 258,016
1947 .. 76,328 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 31,619 289,635
1948 . . 87,737 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 43,028 332,663
1949 . . 89,530 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 44,821 377,484
1950 . . 70,868 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 26,159 408,643
1951 . . 78,910 8 „ 15 ~ 53,491 25,419 429,062
1952 . . 72,187 8 ~ 15 „ 53,490 18,697 447,759
1953 .. 70,398 8 „ 15 „ 58,491 16,907 464,666
1954 ..101,330 8 „ 15 „ 53,491 47,889 512,505
The improvement in last term’s gross
profit (£799,368) was £47,710, of which
the net result benefited by £30,932,
reaching £101,330. That covered the
small pref. div. (£800) and 28.6 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 18.2, 20.2, 22.2,
23.9 and 30.3 p.c. back to 1949.
The year’s net increase in the book-
value of freeholds was £168,781, of which
£128,781 was met in cash, the remaining
£40,000 being covered by mortgage:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £361,271 £361,271 £361,271
Reserves .. 447,759 464,666 612,505
Overdraft, etc. .. 23,487 87,450
Sundry creditors 246,645 173,745 191,539
Tax reserve .. 175,906 171,250 167,291
Final div. .. 85,527 35,527 85,527
£1,290,595 £1,206,459 £1,355,583
Freeholds, etc, .. 405,550 427,696 596,477
Stocks .. .. 582,150 293,079 302,511
Book debts .. 179,895 180,336 212,533
Investments .. 13,142 135,594 15,797
Cash, etc. .. 18,655 78,851 137,362
Shares subsid. .. 90,903 90,903 90,903
£1,290,595 £1,206,459 £1,355,683
Investments and cash, etc., together were
drawn upon for £61,286 net, and the co,
went to its bankers and others for £87,450,
which includes the mortgage already
referred to. The growth of £32,197 in
book-debts was on account of advances to
the subsidiary (£131,933, up £34,380).
The board says stocks (up £9432) and
other assets appear at conservative figures,
which may be accepted with every con-
fidence.
Altogether the figures present a com-
fortable picture from the trading point
of view, and the management, which has
grown up in the business, has long enjoyed
a reputation for shrewd buying and care-
ful budgeting. Also a year or so ago “an
excellent suburban site” was secured,
thus paving the way for still further
extension of the undertaking in line with
what looks like a growing trend among
the big city retailers.
Brooke’s Lemos, Ltd. (Melb.)
TPHE outlook for shareholders in the
-*■ Brooke’s Lemos business has changed,
and it is difficult at the moment to say if
and when net earnings are likely to regain
their former level —they averaged £21,041
for the three years to the end of 1951.
The co.’s two Melbourne factories and
its Sydney plant (which used to be W. H.
Johnston’s fruit-preserving business,
bought in 1949) turn out a variety of
fruit-juices, cordials, condiments, canned-
fruits and -vegetables, coffee-essence, etc.
Under the stimulus of early post-war
conditions sales stepped along as fast as
the bottlenecks of labor, tinplate and
glass-containers would allow, and a
growing export market was built up
again with Britain and southern Asiatic
countries. Still, buoyant costs kept net
gains moderate in relation to the growth
of turnover, and the div. remained steady j
at 8 p.c. for the 11 years to 1952, with a;
2 p.c, sweetener added in 1945.
A couple of years ago the export trade
began to taper, and has continued to do
so at an accelerated rate, due largely to
the costs problem. The resultant drop in
turnover, together with increased pressure
of supplies and narrower margins in the
home market, have resulted in a sharp
fail in net earnings:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
'—Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. & & &
Share premiums, £12,651 .. •• 64,995
1949 .. 20,229 8 8 13,255 6,974 71,969
Revaluation assets, £90,898 .. . • 162,867
1950 .. 20,099 8 8 13,256 6,843 169,710
Replacement reserve, £32,350.. .. 202,060
1951 .. 22,795 8 8 13,256 9,539 211,599
Unexplained reduction, £1529 .. 210,070
1952 .. 19,738 8 8 13,256 6,482 216,552
Prom tax reserve, £5OOO .. .. 221,552
1953 . . 10,665 8 6 10,381 274 221,826
•After deducting intangibles, £15,088 at 31/12/’53.
Last term’s £10,655 (down £9083) of profit
was enough to pay the prefs. their 8 p.c.
(£1758) and show 6.2 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 12.5, 14.6, 12.7 and 12.9 p.c.
back to 1949. A couple of points were
chipped off the div, reducing it to 6 p.c.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and re-
serves combined) the year’s profit was
only 2.7 p.c.
The following analysis of p. and 1.
figures shows in more detail where the
troubles lay:
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
Gross profit. . £150,796 £233,823 £239,658 £180,883
Less —
Gen. expenses 106,983 174,040 186,612 154,108
Depreciation 13,794 14,988 15,880 12,120
Tax . . 10,000 22,000 17,428 4,000
Net profit .. 20.019 22,795 19,738 10,655
Reduced turnover and finer margins
brought gross profits down by £58,775
last term. Exes, (down £32,504)
gobbled 85.2 p.c. of gross profit
as against 77.8 p.c. in 1952 and
only 41 p.c. in 1945. Had it not j
been for the cut in the rate of co.-tax
the net result would have been meagre
indeed.
Stocks (in at cost or valuation) were
reduced by £86,705, and debtors’ balances
were £13,869 lighter:
Paid capital— 1951. 1952. 1953. !
Preference .. £21,970 £21,970 £21,970 j
Ordinary . . 143,730 143,730 143,730
Reserves .. .. 226,687 231,640 236,914
Proposed final divs. 12,377 12,377 9,502
Mortgage . . . . 98,902 96,631 94,256
Creditors, etc. .. 189,775 203,627 121,081
Tax provision .. 41,942 42,477 18,796
£735,383 £752,452 £646,249
Freehold .. ~ 41,960 41,960 41,960
Leasehold .. .. 147,844 147,470 144,752
Plant, etc. . . .. 93,177 85,507 81,564
Investments .. 7,000 8,748 9,240
Stocks . . .. 322,574 352,918 266,213
Debtors . . .. 100.053 92,143 78,274
Cash, etc 7,687 8,618 9,158
Goodwill, etc. .. 15,088 15,088 15,088
£735,383 £752,452 £646,249
Thus the co. was able to snip £82,564
off the amount coming to trade creditors
and the bank and reduce tax commit-
ments by £23,681, of which £5OOO (over-
provided in 1952) was transferred to free
reserves. The more-or-less liquid surplus
(£119,250) was £12,935 stronger. Alto- j
gether the finances are in better trim than
a year ago.
Trading conditions have improved since


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attar-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, O.L
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
Insurance Supervision ‘
BAWIiINGS & GAKDNEK Pty. ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers. ~. J .
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445. BU 3446. BU 1409.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALLACE BRUCE ST. OtAIR late
of Little Bourke Street Carrington New-
castle.— I TAKE NOTICE that MARY
VIOLET ST. CLAIR has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 600 of 1954 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for 3 years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the sth August 1954 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
HUNT AND HUNT, Solicitors, of 15
Bligh Street, Sydney. —J. DOUQHAN,
Registrar.
Public Notice
OSKAR MUSIL. bom Havl Brod, Czecho-
slovakia, OLGA MUSIL, bom Chotebor,
Czechoslovakia, both Czechoslovak
nationality, resident now 5 years in Aus-
tralia, 2 Park Road, Mascot, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Industrial Acceptance Corporation,
Ltd.
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
Melbourne, March 30th, 1954.
Copies of the printed Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account for the year ended
31st December, 1953, have been distributed to all stockholders, and it must be gratifying to
members to note that the accounts for the year, after providing for depreciation of £8,288 and
Taxation of £614,932, disclosed a net profit of £1,142,013.
NET PROFIT INCREASE
This net profit is an increase of £379,323 over the
net profit for the previous year when £645,000 was
provided in the accounts for tax. The amount or
tax actually payable was £629,619. The amount o
£15,381 which was thus overprovided has Been
accounted for in the current figures. Net profits
after provision for taxation in the Subsidiary Com-
panics to the 30th June, 1953, which is the balancing
date for those Companies, amounted to £2l7,u»i.
The total Net Profit after Tax Provision earned by
your Company and its Subsidiaries for 1“® P er *? A
under review was therefore £1,349,394. All th
surplus funds of the Subsidiary Companies are
loaned to the Parent Company. The total amount
outstanding at balance date on this account was
£3,255,346.
OUTSTANDINGS
Of the total assets of the Company, namely
£25,339,539, the amount of £23,714,027 is represented
by debts fully secured by hire purchase agreements
and shown in the Balance Sheet under the heading
of “Amounts Due and to Mature under Current Hire
Purchase Contracts.” In the parlance of Companies
such as ours, these amounts are called outstand-
ings” and I propose to adopt this word as describing
these amounts.
Provision has been made for _ bad find doubtful
debts and similarly ample provision has been made
for unearned hiring charges as wifi be seen by tne
inclusion on the liability side of the Balance bheet
of the item “Income yet to Mature on Current Hire
Purchase Contracts” of £3,171,825.
Outstandings increased during the year by
£5,703,759 to £23,714,027 and 72% of this increase
was effected in the period from Ist July to 3isi
December, 1953. , ■
These outstandings are represented by approxi-
mately 74% in respect of motor vehicles and 26 /„
in respect of other goods. Your Directors maintain
what they regard as a safe ratio of motor vehicles
to total goods concerned in all transactions.
It is worthy of mention that an increase in out-
standings took place in all States. It is the Board s
policy to spread your Company s hire purchase
investment in both the Motor and Industrial fields
in all States, thereby providing an Australia-wide
service.
OPEN MARKET BORROWING
Your Board has continued its policy of borrowing
on the Open Market through the Stock Exchanges
in Australia, rather than relying on Bank Overdraft.
I am glad to say that we have enjoyed the co-opera-
tion of the Stock Exchanges and Stock Brokers
throughout Australia, in the placing of our Debenture
St It k is clear from its reception by Brokers and
Investors that the policy of issuing short term
debentures has provided a much desired opportunity
for persons and corporations having funds nor
immediately required to find an investment, which is
profitable to lender as well as borrower.
This method of obtaining funds is in line with the
procedure generally followed by the major overseas
Finance Companies and is recognised by Financial
Institutions as being in accordance Wlt h sound
financing principles. A safe margin is maintained
between long and short term borrowings.
DEBENTURE STOCK
At the 31st December, 1953, the amount outstand-
ing on Debenture Stock was £8,978,000 and with the
increasing demand for your Company s facilities
your Board decided to seek the concurrence ot
Debenture Stockholders to an increase in the Deben-
ture limit prescribed under the Debenture Trust
Deed from £9,000,000 to £12,000,000
I am glad to report that at the Debenture Stock-
holders Meeting held this morning, the necessary
authority was given, and on your behalf I would
like to thank the Debenture Stockholders, not only
those who attended the meeting but the large number
who appointed proxies in their stead. Their renewed
confidence in I.A.C. by granting the increase in the
Debenture Stock limit is most gratifying.
FURTHER DEBENTURE ISSUE
Your Company will shortly be making available
further short and long term Debenture Stock through
the Stock Exchanges and Stockbrokers in all States.
No difficulty is anticipated in procuring the necessary
finance as and when required. The new money
will be profitably used as soon as it is available.
ratio of borrowings
It will I am sure, be of interest to Stockholders
to note that our ratio of borrowings to Stockholders
funds is conservative when compared with fhe major
Overseas Finance Companies, and, in fact, the ratio
S borrowings to Stockholders’ Funds compares more
than favourably wtih other Finance Companies in
Australia. . .
Cash credit balances are maintained to ensure a
liquid position thereby affording a greater measure
of strength and flexibility in the planning of the
finances of the Company.
AJAX INSURANCE CO. LTD.
The profits, after providing for tax of Ajax Insur-
ance Co., Ltd., a wholly owned Subsidiary Company,
for the twelve months ended 30th June, 1953,
amounted to £207,637, This is an improvement on
the previous year and it is pleasing to report that
the improvement has been maintained in the six
months period ended 31st December, 1953.
In August, 1953, the Authorised Capital of Ajax
Insurance Co., Ltd., was increased from £lOO,OOO to
£500,000 and the Issued Capital from £60,000 to
£400,000, by the issue of 340,000 £1 Ordinary Shares
at par. The whole of these shares were taken up
by I.A.C. Due to the difference in balancing dates,
the increase in your Company’s investment is shown
in the Accounts now presented, but the increase
in the capital of Ajax Insurance Co., Ltd., will not
appear until June, 1954, Accounts of that Company
are prepared.
COMPANY HISTORY
I think it would be appropriate to give you a
brief resume of the history of your Company.
The I.A.C. commenced business as a Private Com-
pany on Ist January, 1930, with a Paid Up Capital
of £lOO,OOO and the outstandings at the end or
the first year’s business totalled £198,595.
In December, 1948, I.A.C. was converted into a
Public Company, with a Paid Up Capital ot
£1225,000 and Shareholders’ Funds of £1,63/,9»0.
At December 31st, 1948, the outstandings were
December, 1953, the Paid Up Capital
had increased to £2,500,000, the Shareholders Funds
to £5,211,937 and the outstandings to £23,714,0//.
The outstandings have further increased to
£25,682,662 as at 28th February, 1954. On the Ist
January of this year we entered our twenty-nttn
year of service to the consumer and the manutac-
turer, and with the continued demand for our
specialised Australia-wide service it is expected me
Company’s funds will be fully employed during the
year. During the period in 1952 when stocks of
merchandise in the hands of traders were abnormally
high, your Company revised its trading conditions to
make it easier for these stocks to be sold, and it is
pleasing to note that no losses attributable to me
adjusted conditions, were suffered by your Company.
I feel sure that traders associated with your Com-
pany appreciated its action in this regard.
COMPANY POLICY
It is your Company’s policy to incorporate addi-
tional features in our trading conditions from time to
time and last year many added benefits to bom
retailers and hire purchase customers were intro-
duced. A further revision was recently made oi
your Company’s trading conditions with the resul
that I can now safely say the hire purchase facilitie
extended by I.A.C. are not only readily acceptable
to both retailers and hire purchase customers, but
are unequalled by Finance Companies in Australia.
SOUND RATIO
Although figures appear from time to time which
show that the amounts outstanding on hire purchase
in Australia are increasing, the ratio of such out-
standings to National income is much less than is
the case in overseas countries. The members of the
community who can borrow from Banks on over-
draft, avail themselves of these facilities to purchase
consumer goods, but those who cannot trade
these lines rely on hire purchase to procure goods
which are necessary to maintain their standard or
living, and which are paid for out of income.
INCENTIVE TO PRODUCTION
I have already referred to the amount provided for
tax in respect of the year under review, and the
amount paid in the previous year. The reduction m
the rate of Company tax is much appreciated by
your Company and traders generally, and it is
hoped that the Federal Government will be able to
see its way clear to reduce further the burden of
taxation, and thus increase the incentive to produc-
tion.
STAFF
The Directors would like to pay a tribute to the
loyalty and energy of the Executives and Staff, who
have so materially contributed to the giatifymg
results presented.
—F. E. BUNNY (Chairman).
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, LTD.,
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE TOWNSVILLE
ADELAIDE PERTH HOBART LAUNCESTON
the close of accounts, and costs
are steadier, but competition
remains very keen, and the export
market dull. Though some
improvement in net earnings
may be expected, a return to the
1949-51 level is doubtful.
At 245. (255. 3d. a year ago)
the f.-p. £1 ords. return 5 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis; the
investor who looks for 5.8 p.c.
on his money counts on a 7 p.c,
distribution. The prefs. at 275.
yield 5.9 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £l7 12s, lOd.
prefs. and 50s. lOd. ords.
Uranium Oxide, N.L.
Formed to take over from
Poseidon, Pioneer Mines and the
Austral Mining co. their options
over potential uranium-bearing
areas on the Yenberri reserve
(N.T.), Uranium Oxide has left
the stocks in Adelaide with a
nominal capital of £150,000 in
1.500.000 2s. shares. Of the lot
900.000 shares, underwritten by
Messrs. Tolhurst and Harvey at
id. each, are offered, payable 6d.
on application and allotment and
the balance as required.
Each vendor co. is offered a
parcel of 200,000 shares on its
own account, and three further
parcels of 100,000 shares each
have been offered to those on the
vendor cos.’ registers in the ratios
of 11 for 100 Poseidon, 13 for
200 Pioneer and 15 for 100
Austral.
Consideration payable for the
various options is £13,700 cash
in instalments up to Nov., 1955.
The vendors also have the right
to subscribe for shares at par
until June 30, 1955. Preliminary
exes. (£925) and brokerage
(£1875) are put at £2BOO, thus
leaving £73,500 for working
capital when the shares are fully
paid. The idea behind the
amalgamation is to reduce capital
outlay and costs and quicken
output.
The Yenberri reserve is about
185 miles south of Darwin and
five miles off the Stuart highway.
Shallow prospecting has exposed
torbenite in each of three holes
in a shear zone, A reasonable
inference is that richer uranium-
bearing material might be met
with at a greater depth, say, 50ft.
to 100 ft., because of the
tendency of the stuff to leach
out. Therein lies the co.’s
prospects of finding com-
mercially-payable ore.
On the board are G. C. Camp-
bell, A. R. Ferguson and E.
Broughton Jensen.
“Gasoil” writes: Enterprise of
New Guinea’s “promised land”
lies against the Dutch border, in
the Upper Sepik region, where
the co. is still seeking an oil-
prospecting permit. To reach
the area one travels over 700
miles up the Sepik River, to the
limit of navigation: there is no
other way in. The story goes
that oil-wells were drilled there
many years ago; some say by
the Germans, others say by the
Dutch, Both groups claim that
the bores were hidden when the
area was ceded to Australia, and
that they remain hidden to this
day. When German-Dutch
parties surveyed the international
border, about 40 years ago, their
geologists made reconnaissance
surveys of adjacent areas. The
one sought by Enterprise of
N.G. was mapped by those
geologists. The map shows
massive granite-cored moun-
tains fringing the area on the
north and south. The flanks of
these mountains are formed of
sedimentary rocks, highly
metamorphosed by contact with
the granite. Only in the central
part of the area do unaltered
sediments occur ; the topography
is extremely rugged and the dips
conform to underlying meta-
morphics. The structure of this
central portion is therefore
synclinal, and drilling in low-
lying parts should yield excellent
supplies of artesian water. As
an oil prospect the area has a low
rating on the evidence so far
available.
* * * ♦
Australasian Oil Exploration,
Ltd. (B. 17 /3 / ’54), launched in
Perth a couple of months ago,
has just let a contract to
Petroleum Drilling Corp., Ltd.,
to test-drill Reid’s Dome, south
of Rotfleston (Q,). An oil-
prospecting permit covering some
1800 square miles in this area
was taken over from Cable Oil
Syndicate. The drilling rig is
scheduled to leave America on
April 30, and to arrive in Aus-
tralia five weeks later. The
intention is to put down three
exploratory bores. Rock bottom
is expected to be reached between
4000 ft. and 7000 ft. The co. also
took over two Westralian permits
from the Cable syndicate, one
in the Eucla area and the other
in the Fortescue River basin. It
has applied for a permit covering
3500 square miles around Daru
(Papua), alongside Australasian
Petroleum’s areas, and is
negotiating for a further prospect
at Lakes Entrance (Vic.). The
public took up 4,500,000 ss.
shares in the co., payable 6d.
each on application and allot-
ment, another Is. by April 30,
and the balance within 12
months.
* * * •
Latest addition to the multi-
tude on the hunt for oil in Aus-
tralia is Esperance Oil Syndi-
cate, Ltd., registered in Perth
with a nominal capital of
£50,000 in £5 shares. The co.
has made application for permits
to search (not yet granted) in the
Esperance, Ravensfhorpe, For-
tescue River and Paterson Range
(Desert Basin) areas. Geologist
F. A. Campbell and Mr, Cable
are to make an immediate pre-
liminary examination of Desert
Basin and Fortescue River areas,
with one eye open for favorable
surface indications of what
might prove to be oil-bearing
structures, and the other for
uranium and rare minerals. Ex-
cluding oil, the Cable Oil Syndi-
cate has a one-third interest in
the search. The intention is to
form local cos. to develop and
work prospects considered suffi-
ciently promising.


Women’s Letters
MOJECUICNIC
Thumbing rides from sympathetic
motorists has become second-nature to
those who live in the suburbs of this
city, for at the drop of a hat the trammies
forsake their trams and the general pub-
lic. Although this lack of transport pre-
vented many from attending the monthly
luncheon of the English Speaking Union
at the Victoria, 50 members managed
to arrive. Guest-speaker was the Vice-
Chancellor of the University, Prof. G. W.
Paton, and he and his wife were wel-
comed by the president. Sir Owen Dixon,
Lady Dixon and the chairman of the
Hospitality Committee, Mrs. Gerald
Bacon. Those present included Lady
Scott, Mrs. L. Perrott, Mrs. J. K. Len-
non, Dr. Stella Braithwaite, Mrs, Walter
Cass and Mrs. Lester Permezei.
£ * ft
Those who admired Marie Collier in
“The Consul” had an opportunity of
seeing her in anew role when she played
Teresa in “The Maid of the Mountains,”
the part made famous by Gladys Mon-
crieff. Max Oldaker was Baldasarre.
Many of the “gallery-girl” devotees of
Gladys Moncrieff were upstairs for this
revival, and there were even sighs of
nostalgia from those in the more expen-
sive seats. It was quite evident that this
production was not to their liking.
Still, there was a full house, women
wearing short, but elegant, frocks. The
loveliest in the audience was worn by
Mrs. James McGauran. It was of white
silk romaine and striped in gold and
silver. She wore it under a mink coat.
Black romaine and Chantilly-lace were
the choice of Mrs. W. H. Horsfall, who
chatted in the foyer with Mrs. W. Irvine,
whose white ermine jacket was worn
over a short black frock. Glenda Ray-
mond’s black coat covered a vivid-red
frock; singer Peggy Shea chose a
bouffant frock of black tulle embroidered
with a silver-leaf design ; crimson velvet
was the choice of Mrs. Charles Norman.
* ft *
It was raw and bleak at Flemington
for the second day of the Melbourne
Racing Club’s carnival. Top-coats, suits
and furs were worn, and very smart was
Mrs. S. G. Garnsworthy, wife of the
M.R.C. chairman. She wore a black
suit with a small black-velvet pillbox and
dyed-ermine cape-stole. Mrs. J. Reilly
was also in a black suit, but her small
hat was of pastel-pink. Lady Rowell
chose a trim grey suit and black-velvet
beret; Mrs. A. Macdougall, of Sydney,
chose a smart junior-blue tailored-suit
and matching velvet beret; Mrs. W. Mc-
Aulay’s anthracite-grey suit was topped
with a head-hugging hat of winter-white
melusine. Mrs. W. Whittam’s top-coat,
with very large bat-wing sleeves, was of
deep-purple self-striped tweed, and was
worn with a pale-lilac felt hat trimmed
with grey chiffon,
ft ☆ *
Brightness and gaiety set the theme for
the decor of new Orient liner Orsova,
recently at Port Melbourne on her maiden
voyage from Tilbury. Blond wood, light
colors mixed with tropical prints, give
the ship a spacious and clear-cut look.
The main lounge has two pale-Chartreuse
walls. Armchairs and lounges are up-
holstered in orchid-mauve or sapphire-
blue. The rugs, which are dotted over
the blond parquet-floor, are pale-lime-
green or gold. Almost the whole of one
wall is covered with a mural depicting
a boathouse, with all the nautical appli-
ances —lamps, ship’s bells and ropes —
scattered about. Pale-Chartreuse has
been used for the walls in the restaurant;
on these walls are amusing reproductions
of Victorian prints in gay colors ; chairs
and carpets are in a subtle mauve with
a pink undertone.
Visitors for Sir Colin Anderson (he is
a director of the Orient Line) and Lady
Anderson found them in the luxury suite,
known as the “flat.” The sitting-room
has one wall of natural wood, while
the opposite wall is covered with a
modern wallpaper in olive-green and
oyster-grey tonings. Throughout the
“flat” is pale-olive-green carpet, and to
separate the small hall from the sitting-
room a cane screen has been effectively
used. The armchairs are of cane and
blond wood and are contrasted with
pastel cushions.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Tait were down
at the Orsova to meet actress Sophie
Stewart, who has come from London to
star in “Dear Charles” at the Comedy
Theatre. Miss Stewart, who looks well
and as gay as ever, was last in Australia
with Robert Morley in “Edward, My
Son.” Miss Stewart has already played
the part she will play in “Dear Charles”
in Germany, where it was a great hit
with the British Occupation Forces. Her
husband, Ellis Irving, who will also play
in “Dear Charles,” has just returned from
New Zealand, where he had been appear-
ing in “Dial ‘M’ for Murder.”
Mrs. D. Warford-Mein (pictured here)
is one of the most energetic committee-
workers in Melbourne. She is not only
president of the Raveloe Auxiliary, which
works for the Animal Welfare League,
but is hon. sec . of the Kurneh Auxiliary,
which works for the Women's Hospital.
Mrs. Warford-Mein is also an active
member of the Victoria League, and
belongs to the Alexandra Club. Mr. and
Mrs. Warford-Mein live in Grange-road ,
Toorak, and have two little girls, Susan
Jane and Anthea. Mrs. Warford-Mein
takes joy in doing what most other women
don't enjoy—writing letters. Also a lover
of literature ; for outdoor sport she enjoys
long hikes .
Mrs. D. Warford-Mein is president of
the committee organising the .Raveloe
dinner dance, to be held at Giro’s on
Friday, May 14, at 7 p.m. The function
is under patronage of Lady Brooks, and
patroness is Lady Gengoult Smith. Mrs.
James Buchanan is in charge of decora-
tions. Artist Francine Abry is doing sil-
houettes for each table; they will be of
the domestic animals. The menu-cards
will be numbered, with prizes for the
lucky ones. Tickets may be obtained
from Winsome Dane (BJ 1142), Pamela
Middleton (UY 9098) and Marguerite
Weir (BJ 2840).
it it it
A fully professional company is mov-
ing into the Arrow Theatre. A high stand-
ard of plays will be presented, and, what
is just as important, there will be new
opportunities for young Australian
artists. Letty Craydon, well-known for
her work as a character actress (remember
her as Aunt Martha in “Arsenic and Old
Lace,” Madame Arcarti in “Blithe Spirit”
and Harriet Stanley in “The Man Who
Came To Dinner”?), is co-director with
John Edmund in Spotlight Productions,
which is the name of the new enterprise,
Letty will direct the first production,
“Bell, Book and Candle,” which opens
on April 26, and will play her original
part of Aunt Queenie. Jessica Noad will
play the part in which Evelyn Laye
starred, and playing opposite her will be
John Edmund, who was in “Bell, Book
and Candle” with Evelyn Laye.
it it <r
A delightful buffet-luncheon followed
the meeting at Her Majesty’s Theatre at
which plans for the gala Mother’s Day
concert in aid of the Women’s Hospital
were made. Mrs. Frank Tait, who once
again is president of the committee, an-
nounced that Florence Desmond, the
notable English actress, would fly frorti
W.A. to appear on the programme. Vice-
presidents for the gala-night—May 23, at
the Town Hall —are Mrs. Lytton
Stephens, president of the Women’s Hos-
pital, and Mrs, Wallace Mitchell.
Madame Mario Vigano, who donated
the luncheon, and her daughter, Mrs.
Don. O’Donnell, are ’members of the
organising committee, which also includes
hon. secretary Noreen Reidy, Mrs. W.
Gahan, Mrs. W. L. Cook, Mrs. E. M.
Cornfoot and Mrs. John Kumm. Phyllis
Kennedy is in charge of the Mother’s Day
presentation of the concert, and tickets,
which will cost £2, £l, 10s. and 55,, may
be obtained from Mrs. Carty Salmon
(BM 1585), Mrs. Leonard Smith (Win.
7751) and Mrs. D. Holstock (WM 7400).
SYDNEY
The week has been, of course, “country
week” in Sydney, and the number of wide
hats dotting the landscape has been so
large that they succeeded in practically
obliterating everything else as effectively
as they obliterate their owners’ faces. It
is hard to believe that there ever was a
“Dad-Mother-and-Dave” era, for these
days if any really well-dressed people are
sighted in Sydney streets it’s more than
likely that they come from Agintoothbong
or some other village back of beyond.
Certainly the Easter meeting at Rand-
wick had nothing to show country visi-
tors about fashion. It wasn’t, generally,
that the taste was so bad as that it was
so undistinguished. There were, need-
less to say, many well-cut grey suits worn
with small hats, black, grey or white,
but very few of the new lines. Little hats
were often made of feathers (very pretty),
flowers, sequins or satin. Mrs. Bill Adams
wore a white satin toque with her navy
wool frock, and Mrs. Maynard Jenour,
who flew here from England for the wed-
ding of daughter Moana next Thursday,
looked attractive in a black suit with a
white satin-flowered hat.
Pink was worn in many shades and
made the only new contribution to the
fashion-scene. Mrs. John Bovill’s wool
dress, worn with a white-feathered hat,
was in a delicate shade of watermelon-
pink, and Mrs. Tom Bateman’s dress was
pale coral and worn with a smart black
toque. Her sister, Mrs. Michael Fitz-
patrick, wore huntsmen’s-green with a
small hat of brown velour.
Naturally the Show has been predomi-
nant in many people’s programmes The
opening ceremony (as usual, five days
after the actual opening) was performed
this year by the Governor-General, Sir
William Slim, who with Lady Slim
watched the Grand Parade with interest
from the stand in the centre of the Ring
After this the president of the R.A.S.,
Sir Colin Sinclair, and Lady Sinclair
entertained 35 guests at afternoon-tea in
the council club-rooms, newly-decorated
in lime, mushroom, silver and white. It
was interesting to notice that nearly all
the women members of this official party
wore navy blue, though Lady Slim was
in hyacinth-blue shantung spotted with
white and worn with white hat, shoes,
gloves and handbag. Lady Sinclair was in
black with a while hat.
Watching the parade from the Council
Stand were Mr. and Mrs. H. Gordon
Munro of Booroomooka, Bingera; Mr.
and Mrs. Jim Ashton of Millamolong,
Mandurama; Mr. and Mrs. Ken Mackay,
of Cangong, Dungog; and Mr. and Mrs.
Douglas Munro of Gundibri, Merriwa.
The Show, of course, means different
things to different people. Some see only
the cattle (very good this year by all
accounts), others the flowers (almost as
good in the parks and lunch-grounds as
in the Horticultural Hall), others the dogs,
etc. This letter spends most time at the
Handicrafts, time well-repaid but in some
ways disappointing.
It is a pity that a wider range of people
do not enter their handicrafts for the
Show, for, admirable as hundreds of the
exhibits are, there are some sections
where the standard is deplorably low.
Think, for instance, of the many people
who make exquisite dresses for their
little girls, and then think of the few,
unattractive party dresses in this sec-
tion.. Certainly the prizes are not high
(two guineas and one guinea mostly for
first-prizes), but the function of the Show
is to raise the standard of achievement
in all the sections, and this can be done
only if fresh ideas are introduced each
year.
Much interest was shown in the
tapestry section, which drew quite a large
entry, Mrs. F. P. Johnson’s wool tapestry
exciting great admiration. There was
quite an imaginative picture by a New
Australian showing the ship Estonian
approaching Australia’s shores, though in
the whole section there was not great
evidence that the New Australians have
vitally affected our handicrafts as yet.
The tapestries did give a slight feeling
that one had wandered into the Blake
Prize Exhibition, for there was St. Pat-
rick on a banner, a very stiff representa-
tion of the Last Supper, and a terrifying
one of Noah’s sacrifice.
Mrs. A. L. Reid and Mrs. J. E. Grigg
excited despair in the breasts of many
Fair Isle knitters with their superfine en-
tries. Mrs. A. C. McMahon’s applique
showing “The Canterbury Tales” was
striking and original (it won a special
prize). Entries which showed some relation
to the current fashion-trend (sadly missed
in many other entries) were Mrs. Scott’s
black angora jumper with long sleeves
and a yoke faintly glittering with metallic
thread, Mrs. M, Barber’s woven stole in
black and gold, Mrs. Scorer’s first-prize
blouse with its collar of blue Richelieu
work, and Miss Ng’s trousseau-set in
oyster satin with applique embroidery on
net.
The display on two star-lit nights at the
Showground by 1600 girls from Sydney’s
Home Science Schools was for many one
of the highlights of the Show. For 10
minutes or so before the display began
the Ring was plunged into darkness, and
when the lights were restored there was
revealed a briiliantly-colorful scene of a
carnival ground, a sparkling merry-go-
round revolving in the centre, and spread
over the arena were maypoles, red and
yellow, surrounded by girls in flower-
dresses of every conceivable color. They
danced to many rhythms, from polka-time
to waltz-time, and in one dance waved
gay balloons high above their heads so
that they looked like rainbow-colored
bubbles. But the most striking effect of
the display was the starlight dance which
the girls performed in darkness except
for the many colored lights they waved
above their heads. At the end they sank
to the ground like sleeping flowers clus-
tered around the maypoles.
The display was a beautifully con-
ceived and well-organised spectacle, its
only drawbacks being a rather common-
place commentary (“Can it be that there
are fairies at the bottom of the garden?”),
and the cool, controlled instructions com-
ing over the microphone (“To the left,
to the right. Nicely done, girls!”) which
did not conform with the mood of gay
spontaneity set by the visual effect of
the display.
Pianist Margaret Crellin has been
awarded the scholarship sponsored by the
Music Advancement Society. This is the
fourth year in succession that Margaret's
talents have won this scholarship for her.
Photo by Hugh Spencer.
Miss Elizabeth Northcott, daughter of
the Governor of N.S.W., Sir John North-
cott, has chosen July 8 for her marriage
to Squadron-Leader Russell Nash. The
marriage, which will take place at St.
Stephen’s Church, Macquarie-street, at
2.30 p.m., will be followed by a reception
at Government House.
Miss Northcott attended the confer-
ring of degrees at the University when
Squadron-Leader Russell Nash received
his law degree, and during the week was
present with him at two of Sydney’s
Easter parties: those given by Mr. and
Mrs. Jim Ashton at Tuila, Double Bay,
on Thursday evening, and Sue Playfair’s
at her home on the same night. Sue, who
wore blue satin, had her three married
sisters, Mrs. Alec McLeod, Mrs, Jimmy
Williams and Mrs. Keith Gollan to help
her entertain her guests.
* u ☆
Easter Saturday saw the opening of
“Zip Goes a Million,” the musical comedy
at the Tivoli which is likely to give rise
to more pleasure than controversy. It
is produced by the English entrepreneur
Mr. Emile Littler, who has had outstand-
ing success with musical comedies in
England and who has come out with Mrs.
Littler to supervise this production.
Judging by the enthusiastic response of
the audience on Saturday night, he will
have similar success here.


J 7
m
HOSPITAL
/ f
m
■atitriaw
its:
N
s
F/W/ /« Quality First in Favour
CHATEAU TANUNDA
The Brandy of Distinction
A Product of The
advt
House of Seppelt
TUCKER & CO, PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
Who esale Spirit Merchants since (838
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
The Matthew Passion
According (to Professor
Bernard Heinze, the choir of the
Melbourne Philharmonics is the
second-best in the world, one in
England holding the premier
position.
The English choir, however,
is a band of professional singers
who are paid for their singing.
The Melbourne institution, now
100 years old, is a band of
voluntary singers who sing
because they like it, and it is a
tribute to their devotion and to
their choir-master, Dan Hardy,
that they gave such an excellent
performance of Bach’s lovely
“Passion” at their annual
occasion at the Town Hall.
The deep solemnity of the
Evangelist’s recitatives, as told
in Max Worthley’s expressive
tenor, was captivating, and the
chorus’s enunciation of the
“Agony in the Garden” was
unbelievably lovely. Betty Fret-
well’s soprano had tenderness,
but lacked volume, while Robert
Payne’s baritone had the depth
and feeling to express the words
of Jesus. Florence Taylor, from
Sydney, aired a beautiful
contralto.
❖ *
Brisbane Youth Concert
There was musical plenty for
the young audience at the first
Brisbane Youth Concert. The
quality of most of the music was
high, and the capable direction
of Tibor Paul made it a matter
of regret that this was his last
appearance in an eight-week
season with the orchestra.
Paul conducted Bach’s “Third
Brandenburg Concerto,” 18th-
century style, from the keyboard,
though under George White’s
leadership the strings of the
Queensland orchestra needed
only an occasional wave of the
eyebrows to mark an entry.
Then there came a lively per-
formance of Haydn’s tuneful
“Drumroll Symphony,” which, as
Mr. Paul pointed out to his
audience, is old-fashioned in the
best sense of the term. The
stronger drama of Beethoven’s
“Leonora No. 3 Overture” was
heightened by the splendid off-
stage trumpet-playing of Alfred
Grice and the deft handling of
the frequent little solos in this
thorny work.
Vladimir Pleshakov was
impressively athletic in the piano
part of the Liszt-Busoni
“Rhapsodie Espagnole,” a
colorful and exciting piece of
Spanishry, if not very profound.
The conductor’s personal
enthusiasm for the music of
Richard Strauss was evident in a
spirited reading of “Don Juan,”
not as erotic as it can be, but
played instead for the fine sound
of a Straussian orchestra. After
this, the moderns were poorly
represented by William Walton’s
“Orb and Sceptre,” a piece in
which no amount of swagger can
disguise the absence of a memor-
able tune, such as the one which
made Walton’s own “Crown
Imperial” the ideal march for a
majestic occasion.
D. J. M.
❖ <♦ ♦>
Karel Zoubek
Melbourne’s 1954 concert
season started auspiciously at the
Town Hall with a violin recital
by Karel Zoubek, the Czech
composer, conductor and vir-
tuoso who came to Australia
after the Nazi occupation of his
country and was put in a deten-
tion-camp, where he concen-
trated on composition. After his
release, he gave a concert of his
works at the Assembly Hall in
Melbourne. He was subsequently
put in Pentridge under a
deportation - order, but was
released before it could be
executed.
These vicissitudes of an artist
don’t seem to have hurt his play-
ing and composition. He steered
a masterly bow through the
Cesar Franck Sonata clear,
resonant tone and alternately
"I feel more at home with one like this, Sarge.”
calm and passionate expression
gave it great depth—and his
sensitive treatment of Handel’s
No. 4 Sonata in D Major brought
its grace out. With Margaret
Schofield at the piano he made a
sonata of his own composition
based on Slavonic folktunes
dance and glitter.
ijjt
Sydney’s Tiv. and Palladium
each came up with new shows
for Easter, the Tiv. with a lively,
well-staged musicomedy called
“Zip Goes a Million,” which
seems suspiciously like a musical
version of “Brewster’s Millions,”
and the Palladium with “Hellza-
poppin’,” which is a form of
sustained explosive lunacy set
off in the main by “Chic”
Johnson and “Ole” Olsen. Both
tip-top shows.
*t* *t* ❖
“The Cocktail Party”
T. S. Eliot’s “The Cocktail
Party,” modern in setting but
Greek in inspiration, is the latest
offering by Twelfth Night
Theatre in Brisbane.
Seeing it, one cannot help
regretting that so few contem-
porary dramatists have been able
to grow up in the theatre, to play
such a variety of parts that they
are able to bring to the writing
of drama minds steeped in the
tricks of the trade. Eliot cannot
avoid leaving his audience with
some impression of the toil that
has gone into the fashioning of
his dialogue and plot. One can
sense the continual reshaping of
line and phrase, the constant
striving for the best word.
Much of the dialogue of “The
Cocktail Party” has the same
strain which is to be found in
any gathering (like the one in
the play) where people are try-
ing to say something pointed or
clever at every turn of the con-
versation. Eliot brings a
psychiatrist to a London home
where there are four people
whose lives have got into a
muddle, not through strength of
passion, but through the very
lack of passion in their inhibited
loving. The theme of the play is
the problem of seeking new and
better paths for those whose lives
are drifting into failure, but it is
unfortunate that the troubles of
the chosen four are so essentially
unmoving.
As the psychiatrist, Donagh
MacDonagh reshaped the lives
of his patients with a competence
that was saved from smugness
by pure charm. Yet he did not
lack the aloofness of this doctor
with a strong strain of the high-
priest in him. Most of the
sparkle of the party-scenes came
from Marjorie Mant’s Julia, a
skilful portrait of a penetrating
brain hidden behind a dithering
exterior.
Rhoda Felgate’s production
moved smoothly around an
attractive modern set. Her
pacing of the scenes emphasised
the thoughtful passages of the
script, but there were times when
the effort to make the meaning
clear resulted in speech that was
too deliberate. And. Eliot’s habit
of using “had not” instead of the
more colloquial “hadn’t” of
ordinary speech became madden-
ing under such treatment.
D. J. M.
❖ ❖ ❖
“La Belle Helene"
The National Theatre Arts
Festival at Melbourne Princess
turned on a queer mixture in
“La Belle Helene.”
Originally an operatic bur-
lesque on love, war and peace
based on a story of Helen of
Troy, it was presented for the
first time in 1864 in Paris, with
Offenbach as the composer. The
present version is based on lyrics
and dialogues by A. P. Herbert,
but others have been busy on it,
including Stefan Haag, the
National’s producer.
The result was farce mas-
querading as opera. Nor was
there good stage-work, wit or
humor in it, though Helen in
bed with Orestes earned laughs.
One redeeming feature was a
magnificent performance of the
can-can outside Menelaus’s
palace.
Verdon Williams, the musical-
conductor, did his utmost, but
was singularly unlucky in having
to cease-fire to wait for an ill-
timed curtain or for a prompter
to be heard giving his cue. As
for the singing—well, there was
no opera.
“Escape”
Galsworthy’s “Escape” was
considerately treated by the Tin
Alley Players at Melbourne
University’s Union Theatre. The
play contrasts the beliefs and
feelings of villagers, farmers, the
squire, the local parson, gentle-
men, laborers and ladies around
Dartmoor when an escaping
convict, who was an officer and
a gentleman as well as a hero in
the war, presents himself to them
and appeals for protection.
Wyn Roberts, as Matt Denant,
acted all through with dignity
and feeling and with the right
touch of understatement. David
Denton was admirable as the
self-righteous farmer and, as the
parson, Jock Tomlinson played
the Good Samaritan with under-
standing.
Talkies
“King of the Khyber Rifles”
Somebody wrote a story from
the Talbot Mundy novel about
the first rumblings in the north
which preceded the Indian
Mutiny and then someone else
wrote a screen-play from the
second-hand story. Any slight
similarity in the film to the
original yarn is therefore purely
accidental.
Tyrone Power, as the half-caste
British - Indian captain who
commands a detachment of the
Rifles, does little throughout the
not - unexciting proceedings
beyond registering grim-jawed
determination. But there is an
English general who looks and
talks like one, though how he
begat a daughter who, having
spent her whole life in England
and India, talks just like a native
of the Bowery is a major mystery.
There is scenery aplenty of
rugged grandeur, and a night
sortie by the Khyber Rifles
against a big rebel encampment
is quite well done. At Sydney
Regent.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Juggler”
This is a thoughtful, sensitive
study of a German Jew, a famous
vaudeville artist, who, following
harrowing experiences in a Nazi
concentration - camp, has
developed a fixation about police.
In Israel he bashes a policeman
whom he mistakenly supposes is
going to arrest him, and in the
little town to which he flees is
befriended by understanding
people. The climax when the
chief Israeli detective catches up
with him is tense and strong.
The sustained emotional
intensity which the role calls for
is admirably served by Kirk
Douglas. Paul Stewart as the
very human detective and Milly
Vitale give polished perform-
ances, At Sydney Lyceum.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Beneath the 12-mile Reef”
The routine melodrama is set
in the sponge-gathering grounds
off the Florida coast, and is
enhanced by splendid submarine
photography. Being about deep-
sea divers, it follows auto-
matically that there will be one
scene of a fight with a giant devil-
fish, which creature demonstrates
its disappointing lack of
stamina by allowing what looks
like a toy rake to give it the
coup de grace.
There is plenty of action, and
there are two capital charac-
terisations by Gilbert Roland
and J. Carroll Naish as two
highly volatile Greek sponge-
fishermen. Robert Wagner is the
handsome young diver. At
Sydney Plaza.
Artbursts
With their usual gay abandon,
the Contemporaries are showing
again at Tye’s Gallery, Mel-
bourne, after seven-years’ absten-
tion. They are still resolutely
following one fashion or another
with a bland indifference to
aesthetic values. James Birrell’s
“Space Modulator” is a board
painted yellow with rectangular
blocks of wood painted black
and gummed on it; it is less
interesting than a motor-car
dashboard. There are works in
other materials, but of crafts-
manship there is little, and the
technical ability displayed in
most of the pictures doesn’t go
much beyond the mixing and
putting-on of crude colors.


Have Patience,
Delaney!
by BANT SINGER
3. Jardine
I’M squatting there, holding
the dead phone, trying to get
it. A voice comes through the
phone.
“Are you finished, Mr.
Delaney?”
“Who’s that?”
“Night-porter here. Your
party has hung up.”
“Yair,” I says. “He’s hung up.
Thanks, George.”
“It’s Bob, Mr. Delaney.”
“So it’s thanks. Bob, Good-
night.”
So what? So I call the police
and tell them about the phone-
call and this L. D. M. Mitchell.
They ask me about Mitchell and
I tell ’em. I never see Mitchell
after he goes to the toilet in the
airport lounge. All I can tell
them is about an overcoat and
him in it and conning me for a
double-header rum and talking
about hombres. Then I tell them
he calls me at 3.12 a.m. and gives
me this stuff about Carson being
no accident.
So they look me over and
think I’m having them on or try-
ing to make the headlines, like
some cranks do, and they put me
down for a queer fellow and
maybe run me in.
I go back to my room and get
in bed and he there and think
some more. I got no ambitions
to sit in on any game where
there’s police. Way I see it I only
get tied up some more in this
Murrayford and about twelve
frogskins in my pocket and this
hotel costing me a frogskin a
day for bed and breakfast. I go
to the police with a yam like that
I’m asking for it.
So I ask for it. After break-
fast I ask for it. Because Carson
always gave me a fair go and it’s
no accident and that Mitchell
comes at me means I can’t fade
and leave it. In the morning I
chew it over with the breakfast
and way I see it I got nothing to
lose.
So I go round to the police-
station and ask for it.
“Who’s the head-serang around
here?”
It’s a different sergeant on the
desk.
“What can we do for you?”
he asks.
“You can put me on to the
head-serang.”
“He’s a busy man. Is it
important?”
“You’d think it was, if you was
me.”
“Look. You got a complaint
to make or want to report some-
thing the way to do it is”
Somebody come in the door
behind me and I turn round. It’s
the grey-haired cop was in
Carson’s suite when I went up
there,
“Hallo,” he says. “Aren’t
you—er —Blayney, is it?”
“Delaney,” I says. “I saw you
last night. In Carson’s rooms.”
“That’s right,” he says. “Was
you wanting to see me?”
“I was looking for the boss
of the joint.”
“I’ll do,” he says. “The name’s
Jardine.”
“All right,” I says. “Some
gink pulled me out o’ bed this
morning and said Carson was no
accident.”
He looks at the desk man and
both of them look at me. I light
a cigarette. Nobody says any-
thing, Jardine walks across the
room, and opens a door and
looks back at me and jerks his
head.
In the room there’s a table and
two or three chairs and a State
map on the wall and a last-year’s
calendar. The calendar is still
there because it’s a chirpy-looking
girl peeping from behind a big
towel. You can see her shape
through the towel. The police
have been having archery
practice on her, with pens. Two
pens are still stuck in the
calendar.
“Take a seat, Mr. Delaney.
Now what’s all this?”
This Jardine is a solid man.
His hair is old, but not his eyes.
All the characters in this
story are entirely fictitious
and no reference is intended
to any person alive or dead.
They’re brown, strong, deep eyes.
His brows are still black and the
eyes shine under them. They
don’t give you anything but they
hold you. His face is square and
kind of leathery, with more lines
on it than a railway-map of the
United States. A long, sharp
nose sticks out of it and under
the nose is a wide, strong mouth
and a chin like a doorstep. He’s
sure a solid man.
“Get this,” I tell him. “Before
you start I know the yarn is silly
like a wet hen. But”
“Just a minute.” He goes to
the door, opens it, puts his head
out and says, “Send Shakespeare
in.”
Shakespeare!
All he amounts to is a short-
hand-writer. He sits down and
opens his book and stares at it,
waiting.
“Go ahead, Mr. Delaney. You
don’t mind if we get this down? ”
So I go ahead. How I got the
wire from Carson and picked-up
the plane, how Mitchell chats me,
how he cons me for the rum, how
he fades at the airport. I give out
with Mitchell’s hombre talk on
the plane, and how he uses it
after he calls me on the phone
that morning.
When Shakespeare has got it
all I look at Jardine. The deep
brown eyes look right back at
me. The mouth goes hard and
a kind of red streak runs through
his cheeks. He leans over, takes
the book from Shakespeare,
looks at the pages and with a rip
tears them out, crumples them,
and chucks thqm in the waste-
basket under the table.
I catch Shakespeare’s eye. It’s
got a sly grin in it. I get up. So
does Jardine. He puts out a
hand, a big hand, and grabs my
shoulders and squeezes.
“I’ll teach you dopes, one and
all,” he says, “not to come here
with your damn’ publicity hunt-
ing.” He shoves and I back
away.
“Chuck him in the peter,” he
snaps at Shakespeare.
Shakespeare comes at me. All
I know is I come here because
it’s what they call your duty to
report things. So I do my duty
and these cops mean to do me
dirt. I know what to do with
Shakespeare—-what they taugnt
us in the commandos —and I
chop him under the chin with my
palm, stiff, and he goes back
against the wall.
“Stay with your bloody short-
hand,” I says.
Jardine jumps to the door and
roars like a bull. Three Johns
charge in and swarm me, and
next thing I know I get the
drongo-rush and finish up in a
cell. The Johns stand over me
and Jardine is there. He isn’t
even breathing hard.
“Creating a mischief,” he says,
“Resisting arrest. Assaulting the
police in the execution of their
duty. Ought to bring a twenty-
quid fine or forty days. I’ll teach
you and your Mitchell, Delaney.”
I open my mouth to howl.
Because I got plenty to howl
about. But he slams the cell
door and rams the bolt home and
fades.
You’re in my place you know
it’s no good trying to kick the
door down. You sit down on
the cell bunk and you swear.
You swear and call yourself a
dope, and swear some more and
keep on trying to get it. That’s
what you do, you’re in my place.
So I do it.
I do it and after a while I
cool down. I lie on the bunk
and feel my bruises and try to
work it out. Even if the yarn is
stone crazy, like I know it
sounds, there’s no need for this
Jardine to do me over. It don’t
make sense. All sorts of queer
fellows go to the police with
stone-crazy yarns. All they do
is listen and then turn them out.
Not this Jardine. Way he sees
it the yarn is silly, and it gets
under his skin and he jugs me.
Maybe he’s got something on his
liver. Maybe someone else has
given him a silly yam. I wouldn’t
know. Even if I did know there’s
nothing I can and So I lie
on the bunk and wait.
One thing they didn’t do. They
didn’t empty my pockets.
Usually they do that before they
jug a man. Maybe it was too
sudden or they haven’t got
around to it yet. So 1 still got
my cigarettes and matches and
could burn the place up if I
want. I light a cigarette and look
at my watch and it’s quarter-past
ten. Only a little over twelve
hours since I hit this Murrayford
and this makes twice I been
tangled with the police. All I
come here for was to work for
Carson, and twice I’m tangled
with police. Hell with it. But,
boy, if only I can get my hands
on Lay Down Misere Mitchell!
It comes to me Murrayford is
a damn’ funny town. I never
heard of it till Carson sends me
the wire. I haven’t had much
chance to look it over since I
been here. Because I been too
busy. I’m so busy getting
pinched for asking a redhead to
have a drink, because she thinks
I’m some cactus wolf; I’m too
busy trying to find out something
about the accident killed Carson ;
too busy getting pulled out of
bed by this Mitchell freak, and
then getting slung in the peter
for telling the police what he
tells me. All this happens in a
place I haven’t even looked at,
sort of between supper and
lunch, and what I got is no job
and not enough dough and some
bruises and a seat in a cell and
this prickly Jardine man slapping
charges on me.
So it’s a damn’ funny town.
The police don’t even empty your
pockets when they sling you in.
They don’t even try to check the
pitch about Mitchell. They just
throw Delaney in the cooler and
get ready to have him up and
lose more of his dough.
Well, I don’t have to lose the
dough. They fine me maybe
twenty frogskins I can do jail
for it. Two days for every quid
of the fine is the most they can
give me. I get forty days they
got to feed me and maybe they
send me to some big jail some-
where and I take forty days’ rest
and walk out with my dough and
in some place a long way from
Murrayford. If that’s the way it
is, that’s
The door rattles and opens,
and a station cop puts his head
in and says, “Come on, you re
wanted.”
This is where I get searched
and fingerprinted and officially
charged.
But it isn’t. It’s where this
cop leads me to the main office,
and waiting there is none other
than Miss Martin, the redhead
that wouldn’t drink with me be-
cause she thought I was some-
body called Ross.
Pal Jardine is there, too, and
he must keep a fatherly look
special for pretty redheads. Be-
cause he’s wearing it now. But
only when he looks at Miss
Martin. When he looks at me I
can see what he wants is to kick
me right in the teeth. So I give
him a grin.
“Don’t tell me,” I says, Im
to go up on insulting a female,
too.”
I got Miss Martin’s eyes on
me now. They’re a kind of
liquid hazel —the kind nobody
could play poker with. Because
they give things away.
She’s giving things away. She
looks at me and I don’t have to
hear her apologise to me. Be-
cause that’s what she’s doing.
And down deep she’s asking me
for something. She’s got the
kind of face could ask me for
anything. So I stop acting
mar t
“X don’t know why,” says this
Jardine jerk, “but Miss Martin
is here with bail-money for you,
Delaney.”
I look at her again and what
her eyes ask me is to hold it.
So I hold it.
“You’ll do your money,”
Jardine says to her. “Birds like
this are apt to shoot through.”
“Anybody backs me,” I says,
“I run a straight race from go to
whoa. You can pull your head
in, copper. All you got to do is
fix up the bail.”
The red streaks run along his
cheeks like they done before. If
he’d had a moustache he’d have
chewed it. He gives me the glare
and his eyes flick away to the
desk-sergeant. The grin on the
desk-sergeant stays right where it
is and the eyes of the desk-
sergeant stay right on Jardine.
He’s enjoying Jardine.
“What’s your name, if you
don’t mind?” I says.
“Arentz,” says the desk-
sergeant, keeping his grin and
his eyes on Jardine.
“Remind me I owe you a
drink next time you see me,” I
tell him.
“Get out!” Jardine howls.
Miss Martin stands there. She
don’t say anything. She don’t get
all this. Neither do I. But I get
enough of it to be sick of it.
“Fix the bail,” I says. “I ain’t
got all day,”
Jardine puts an arm on the
desk and takes hold of nimself
and stares at the wall. His mouth
is tight and the red streaks flaring
and dying, flaring and dying.
“You can go,” he says, like
he’s dog-tired. “There’s no bail.
Because you haven’t been
charged—yet. No good charging
you, if Mellish is in it.”
“Mellish?”
How many more characters I
got to get tangled with?
“Miss Martin,” Jardine says.
“You came to bail this fellow
out. It’s not necessary. He
hasn’t been charged. We were
going to charge him with —with
several things. You tell Mr.
Mellish the charges can still be
laid. You tell him he’s respon-
sible for this bird. Well, there
he is. What you waiting for?”
He pushes himself off the desk
THE STORY SO FAR
Delaney, flying to Murrayford
to work for Carson, strikes a
mysterious character, Lay Down
Misere Mitchell, on the plane.
In Murrayford he receives word
from Carson not to contact
him ( Carson ) at once. He
goes to Carson’s hotel to
spy out the land speaks to
a pretty red-headed girl and
is promptly arrested in mistake
for somebody named Ross,
Released, Delaney phones
Carson’s hotel at the appointed
time, only to be told that Carson
has been killed in a car accident.
He then discovers the red-head
to be Carson's secretary, Joyce
Martin, meets the police-sergeant,
Jardine, sees another man he
feels he has met before, and is
resigned to losing whatever job
Carson had for him, when he
gets a phone-call at 3 a.m . The
caller insists that Carson was
murdered and reveals that he is
the mysterious Mitchell.


and goes through the door into
the passage.
Miss Martin looks like she’s
scared and wants to cry. Not
me. I seen these police in action
before.
“So what?” I says to Arentz.
“He’ll be all right,” he says.
“Just paddle off before you get
over your depth.”
Outside there’s a blue sedan,
and Miss Martin leads me to it
and gets behind the wheel.
She heads it away from the
kerb and says, watching the road
and traffic, “I’m sorry about last
night. I thought you were Ross
and”
“Seems I look like Ross?”
“At first you do. But not
after that.”
“H’m. Maybe I’m uglier?”
She laughs. It’s a merry laugh.
It’s the first merry laugh anyone
gives me since I hit this dump.
She’s watching the road. Be-
cause she’s a good driver and
talks without looking round. So
I can look at her.
So I look at her. I can only
see the half of her face, but it’ll
do to go on with. She’s got, the
kind of high cheekbones and
straight nose and wide mouth go
with her red hair, and a line of
little pale freckles starts under
the eye on my side and climbs
over her nose and disappears.
“Who’s this Ross?”
“I don’t know, really. He
comes from Willets. That’s a
small place. Quite small. Mr.
Carson” she catches her
breath—“ Mr. Carson knew him.
He’s cheeky—Ross, I mean. He
kept pestering me to go out with
him. Horrid type, really. If
you don’t mind, Mr. Delaney,
I’d rather not discuss him.”
She’s got a kind of richness
in her voice most of the time.
Not when she talks about-Ross.
She talks about Ross, and her
voice goes distant and that
means she means it when she
says she don’t want to talk about
him. If she don’t mean it there’d
be snap in her voice. No snap.
So she means it.
“Me, too,” I says. “Who’s this
Mellish?”
“That’s where we’re going.
He’s a solicitor. Mellish, Hunter
and Mellish. Mr. Mellish is the
head of the firm. He was acting
for Mr. Carson—before the —the
accident —he’s winding up things
here.”
“You was Carson’s secretary?”
“Yes.”
“How long you been with
Carson?”
“Nearly three years,”
It gets her about Carson and
she drops her head for a second,
then picks it up and attends
strictly to the driving.
So she’s all right again and
there’s things I want to know.
“You ever run into a bird
named Mitchell?”
“Mitchell? Mitchell? No, I
can’t recollect that name.”
“What’s your first name?”
“Why on earth?”
“I don’t know. Just nosy,
that’s me. You got any idea
what Carson had lined up for
me?”
“It’s Joyce, No, I haven’t,
really. But I knew he sent for
you because he asked me to send
the telegram.” ??
“You couldn’t guess?”
“I know—well, there was a
sale. I think Mr, Carson bought
some big motor-trucks. It was
just after that he got me to send
you the wire and”
She hit the foot-brake, hard.
A big, black dollar-job—maybe
a Buick or Ponty, it was too
quick for me shot across us
from a sidevstreet and went
away. Fast There was a woman
m the back, staring at Joyce
Martin. The coot driving was
looking straight ahead when they
went across us. There was some-
one else in the front seat > look "
in S straight ahead.
Jardine!
, was UIC
Thank you, Mr. Delaney -
But I’m used to driving, really ! '
“You’d want to be that’s the
way they drive round here,
You’re quick, too, and good on
that brake, comes to that. Not
what I meant. You see who was
iu that car?”
“No. I didn’t have time.
“It was that cop. That
Jardine.”
“Was it?”
“Was it! Too right, it was.
Listen, Joyce, we was away from
that police-station a minute after
he left us, remember? Now he'
tears past us in a big car that s
hitting it up. Hitting it up, and
might have busted us up only
you’re so good on the brake,
You get that! That’s pretty
damn’ funny, you ask me.”
“Oh, well,” she says, “it’s
possible he was called on some
emergency or other.”
“Yair.”
I don’t say any more because
she’s pulling in to the kerb. I
get out and go with her up some
steps. We’re going to see this
Mellish, who was Carson’s
solicitor, but what I’m thinking
about is Jardine. There’s some-
thing about Jardine. I don't
know what it is. Ail I know is
I don’t like it.
So we’re through a glass door
with Mellish, Hunter and
Mellish, Solicitors and Convey-
ancers, on it, and Joyce Martin
nods to some girls in a main
office and walks straight to a
door with Mr. Percy Mellish on
it and opens it and we go
through.
Mr. Percy Mellish is at a big
desk with papers and things all
over it. There’s a window behind
him. All the other parts of the
wall is packed with big books,
Nice carpet on the floor, nice
chairs to sit in. There’s a cabinet
of some sort to one side.
Mellish is a long, thin bird
with a lot of white hair and a
f ace se ems to be all eyebrows
an( j wrinkles and a long, pointed
nose anc j a wide, thin mouth.
It’s just a face till he looks at
me and Joyce Martin and then
it breaks up and there’s little
lights running about in it and the
kind of grin you’d lend a fiver to
if i t asked you.
He rears himself up.
“Do sit down. Miss Martin.
So this is Mr. Delaney. Mr.
Delaney, 1m very .o meet
you.
And he comes round the desk
and grabs my mitt and pumps it
and what I feel is a real mans
grip. There am t so many of
them that you don t notice one
when it’s got your hand,
First I get a merry smile from
Joyce Martin and it’s the first
good smile Murrayford gives me
Now I get this handshake and
start feeling real good. Only
VO u got to watch it when
strangers make like they’d have
died if you hadn t shown, be-
cause there’s got to be a reason.
You’re in my game you’re on
your own, and no matter how
good you feel with a stranger
you got to watch it.
So I watch it.
This Mellish man gives me
one of his nice chairs and goes
back and sits down and gets out
some cigarettes and hands ’em
round and when we’re all smok-
ing he leans back in his chair,
with his cigarette hanging from
his mouth, .and talks. He talks
and the cigarette bobs up and
down, and eyes half-closed,
and his hands in his pockets and
the little lights running about on
his old, lined dial,
“Well, let’s get to business.
shall we? Naturally, Mr.
Delaney, you are wondering how
we got to know the police had
you and why we—er—interested
ourselves in the matter?”
“That’s right.”
“Miss Martin has told you, I
take it, that we are handling
matters in connection with the
unfortunate death of Mr. Lloyd
Carson?”
“That’s right.”
“Did you know Mr. Carson
very well, Mr. Delaney?”
“X done a few jobs for him,
different times. He paid well.”
“I see. Well, you understand
that we are not his regular
solicitors. Miss Martin tells me
his regular people are Baywell
and Sons, a very well-known
firm in the capital. Do you know
them?”
“No.”
“H’m.” He knocks the ash
from his cigarette. “Well, we
are, in a sense, acting for Bay-
well and Sons, From what Miss
Martin tells us Mr. Carson had
fairly wide interests. I suppose
you are aware of that?”
“That’s right.”
“Do you know why he came
to Murrayford, Mr. Delaney?”
“Not a clue.”
“Do yoi£ know why he sent
for you?”
“Guess he had some job for
me.”
I’m watching it close, because
his eyes are watching me.
They’re watching me and kind
of looking for something. I don’t
know what they’re looking for,
but if I got it he’s got to find it.
“Are you a free agent, Mr.
Delaney?”
“Look, Mr. Mellish, you got
cards play ’em. Mow’d you know
that Jardine had me? Why and
you send her with the bail-
money?”
“Mr. Delaney, I wish you
wouldn’t carry a chip on your
shoulder with us. We are
endeavoring to do our best for
all concerned. You really
shouldn’t be so suspicious.”
I look him over. I look the
redhead over. So I shouldn’t be
so suspicious.
“Look, Mr. Mellish, I been in
plenty strife in my time. Way I
see it a man gets his living the
way I do he’s got to be ready
for strife. So far I never been
in no real strife working for
Carson” —there was some, but
what Mellish don’t know won’t
worry him —“and he always
pays well. So he sends for me.
So I drop what I’m doing. Be-
cause the way Carson is there’s
going to be real dough for me.
All right. I blow into Murray-
ford last night and ever since I
been in strife. So I shouldn’t be
so suspicious. Ha, ha! ”
“What you need,” he says, “is
a reviver.”
He goes to the cabinet and gets
out Scotch, siphon and glasses,
“Miss Martin?” he says.
“Well, I shouldn’t, really. Just
a little one.”
“Don’t pull any punches on
mine,” I tell him.
The Scotch snaps me up
some.
“Mr. Delaney, would you
mind telling us just what hap-
pened to you when you came 10
Murrayford?”
Maybe I get it off ray back
I’ll feel better. Maybe I been
waiting to let somebody have ft.
So he gets it.
I give him the lot. All the way
from L. D. M. Mitchell’s hombre
talk in the plane to me sitting
“My bag is open on the bed and things scattered about and a chunky man with his back to me and his hands in the bag. In
the commandos they teach you to get close, fast. So I'm close in two strides.”
there drinking his Scotch. He
don’t say a word till I’m
through.
“I really thought he was Ross,
Mr. Mellish,” Joyce Martin says.
“You are like him a little, Mr.
Delaney. I was upset at the time
and—and, well, I really thought
you were him.”
“Forget it,” X says. “I thought
you didn’t want to talk about
him.”
She gives me a smile and then
looks at Mellish.
“Have you no idea,” he says,
“who this Mitchell is?”
“No idea,” I tell him.
“Are you quite sure?”
“What are coming at?”
“Only this. Less than half an
hour ago—and Miss Martin will
bear me out —we received a
telephone-call saying you were in
trouble at the police-station. We
asked what the trouble was. The
caller said he wasn’t sure, but
that there was trouble and we’d
better see about it. Now up to
that point, Mr. Delaney, we
didn’t know about you. Miss
Martin did, because when we
asked her about it she told us
about you coming to the late
Mr, Carson’s hotel last night.
So we”
“Look, who’s we?”
Mellish looks blank, a moment,
then he grins.
“You must forgive me,” he
says, “It’s pure habit. It comes
from legal practice. When we
say we, we mean —oh, confound
it —when I say we it means
myself in this sense, though in a
general sense it means ourselves,
that is, Mellish, Hunter and
Mellish. Perhaps that isn’t very
clear?”
“I’ll say it isn’t,”
“Well, let us put it this way,
Mellish, Hunter and Mellish, as
you know, are acting as solicitors
in this matter of the late Mr.
Carson. If you understand, that
makes us a single entity, although
I personally handle the matter.
Naturally, because we are a
single entity I keep on saying
we. Now do you see?”
“Way I see it when you say
we you don’t mean a crowd you
just mean you. O.K. Maybe I
get it. Only thing is to know
when you mean we and when
you mean you.”
He leans forward and puts his
elbows on the desk, and put his
long face on his hands and looks
from me to Joyce Martin. I look
at Joyce Martin. She’s got a wide
smile, her teeth showing and
crinkles round her eyes.
“I’m enjoying this,” she says.
“Where were we?” Mellish
says, and I nearly pick him up
on it again, only what’s the use?
“Oh, yes. We’d received the
telephone message and Miss
Martin told us about you. Then
we asked the caller for his name.
He said it was Mitchell and that
you would know about him.”
“What!”
“Yes, Mr. Delaney, that is
precisely what he said.”
That rocks me. That sits me
right back on my heels. Because
it puts this Mitchell so damn’
close I can almost feel him. I
can near feel him, but I can’t see
him. I haven’t seen him since he
went through the airport lounge
like a scalded cat, but he sees me.
He sees me, all right. He knows
where to find me at three o’clock
in the morning to give that call
about Carson being no accident,
he knows I go to the police this
morning, he knows I’m in trouble
there, he knows this Mellish bird
is acting for Carson. Not many
people get close to Delaney
unless he wants it, but that
Mitchell is close. He’s so close
he’s all around me.
So it rocks me. Because I’m
finding it hard to breathe this
Mitchell is crowding me so close.
I been crowded before. Plenty.
But this is the first time I’m
crowded by something I can’t see.
All I got is a memory of an
overcoat and a tweed cap and
slaty eyes and being conned for
a double-header rum Next
thing I know he’s a name on the
end of a telephone-line.
Lay Down Misere Mitchell!
So I stop swaying and shove
my feet down hard. Because I
(Continued on page 31)


MORE PULL with
nn
LESS FUEL PER
WITH
the.
.•tf
Ok
m
'S s <S
■■X «
•oV*.. *> •
&s
~*v N*
iSfe*3
•M
25.
INTERNATIONAL-
Super AW-6 Tractor
your job —heavy pulling on the
drawbar or lighter work with direct-attached
equipment you’ll find the new McCormick Inter-
national Super AW-6 will do your work easily and
quickly. The Super AW-6 was designed and built in
Australia to give peak performance and more H.P. hours
per gallon on Australian power kerosene. It has all the
power to do all the jobs in preparing the seed bed,
planting and harvesting the crop, and there’s a full line
of matched equipment to match its speed, power and
traction.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works: Dandenong and Geelong, Victoria.
21% more drawbar power.
Larger displacement engine designed exclusively
for Australian power kerosene.
New aluminium alloy low expansion pistons for
better heat control and less vibration.
New distributor for improved spark control at
all operating speeds.
New transmission with stronger countershaft,
heavier gears and greater capacity bearings.
New wide base tyres for greater traction and
better balance.
Available with three-point linkage and two-way
hydraulic remote control for trailing equipment.
YOUR LOCAL INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER DEALER.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
Builder of Essential Equipment for Essential Work.
m
McCormick International
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Trucks
Defender Refrigerators
International Industrial Power
Bath
by JAMES HACKSTON
IT was an aloof-looking little
place and looked as if it did
not belong to where it stood,
as if it had been left there by
mistake, * or had been forgotten
and was waiting to be called for.
My boyish fancy pictured it as an
outcast with no chimneys near
by to wave lazy, smoky mes-
sages to it on the wind, no
neighboring windows to rattle
with, no friendly, blustering
doors to slam back hearty greet-
ings and, when the mad, wild
elements came plundering past,
no adjoining walls to lean
against for support, no big
buildings close by to take the
first wild buffeting of the wind-
drunk storms.
It stood verandaless to the four
points of the compass, naked to
the pelting rain and the peeling
sun, no clump of trees grew near
to give it shade and shelter, the
north wind threw the road’s
white dust in its eyes and the
westerly tugged relentlessly at
roof and door.
The walls were of single brick ;
and sometimes the little place
almost seemed to shake and
tremble when the wind howled
under the roof. The bare rafters,
smoked black by the fire, were
just above us, and when we
laughed, and sang, the echoes
rang to the roof. When, after the
heat of the day, the iron roof
relaxed with a heavy sigh, it
sounded so loud and startling
that we’d all look up, and wait
until the silence had again
soothed us.
We loved the little home. The
lamplight painted strange pic-
tures for us in black and gold
between the rafters, and up
among the shadows there were
stories for us all. On winter
nights, after we’d put a log on
the fire and had snuggled in, it
seemed as if it had taken us
under its wings.
'T'HE two small rooms were of
brick because we were
lucky enough to have a brick-
layer in the family and, had we
been unlucky enough not to
have a bricklayer in the family,
then we’d have not had anew
house at all. We were more
than pleased that our Auntie Lil
had married a bricklayer—we
thought a brick house looked
more affluent. Also, Uncle pro-
vided the bricks.
Watching him putting up our
two skimpy rooms, though, and
not knowing the circumstances
of the case (our delirious lack of
money), anyone would have
wondered why on earth he had
gone in for bricklaying, the
almost furious, uninterested and
violently-slapdash way he did
ours. You’d have thought he
absolutely loathed his trade: his
trowel rang out argumentatively
almost, as if he were having it
out with Auntie for running him
into the job. He banged brick
on brick vindictively, viciously,
and slapped the plaster about so
venomously that he must have
had it on with himself for ever
marrying into our family.
The very moment he had
finished the walls and the chim-
ney, he grabbed up his belong-
ings and dashed off before our
family could remind him that
we wanted a copper built-in.
Never has a husband departed
with such speed from his wife’s
relations. Never has a husband
so completely dispensed with a
wife’s family. From that day
on he gave us a wide berth (even
after we’d sent him, on account,
the £2 7s. we’d saved up) as
though we all had leprosy and
smallpox in one —or still wanted
the copper built in.
CO that’s how four brick walls
and a chimney came to be
built on the side of the road
where teamsters, drovers, bul-
lockies, miners, woodcutters,
Indian hawkers, squatters, swag-
men, farmers, horsebreakers,
sheepmen, cattlemen, canvassers,
thieves, loafers, workers, scoun-
drels, and angels in disguise,
drove, walked, lurched, rode,
laughed, cursed, sang, worked
and cadged by.
But having got so far with our
new home we now had to rely
mostly on our own resources to
complete the job, and, after
Uncle’s desperate flight, we got
the roof on, which was of
second-hand sheets of iron of
varying degrees of quality ; and,
as they had holes in them, we
used the best-looking sheets for
the front slope of the roof and
the more dinted, holey and rusty
sheets for the back. This ac-
counted for more rain coming
in on one side of the rooms
than the other.
The flooring-boards had also
seen other, and better, days be-
fore coming to us, and my
memory goes back to our bed-
room (everybody’s bedroom),
where the boards soon rotted
away beside the children’s bed,
and to hearing each night, as
they went off to bed, “Don’t
step into the hole, in the dark.”
They became quite accom-
plished at dodging it; not one
of them ever forgetting to step
round it, or over it. No ankles
were ever broken and, things
being so, the hole was never
mended. It was most welcome
to them, too, for when they were
playing bushrangers they could
make their hide-out under the
house itself instead of under
their bed, which was much more
exciting; and it was nothing to
hear Ned Kelly and his gang
shooting the troopers down
underneath the house.
The hole also had another
advantageous side to it: with the
children under the house so
often, the two tiger-snakes who
had taken up their residence
there before the boards had
caved-in and rrfade the hole
vacated their quarters and moved
into the hollow log adjoining the
tank.
The back door we acquired
had also seen other days and
when hung was six inches too
short at the bottom; and after
we’d settled in comfortably and
collected a few fowls, they used
to come in under the door in the
very early morning, before we
were awake, and it was nothing
for us to be awakened by them
walking all over us. Once one of
them laid an egg near my brother
Clive’s behind; and after that
the family always said that Clive
laid eggs in his sleep. Clive
always meant to nail a piece of
wood on to the bottom of the
door.
One night when our Grannie,
a Scotswoman, was looking after
us, a swaggie, who wouldn’t go
away, put his hand under the
door and tried to reach up to
the lock and she hit him over
the hand with a red-hot poker.
The gap at the bottom of the
door had its advantageous side to
it, too. Young brother Fred
kept the poker in the coals every
night from then on, hoping that
another clutching hand would
come groping up under the
door ; but he had no luck.
WE always intended doing
more to the house but,
somehow or other, after we


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACtCSOiy 4
OSUIJJVAV
PTEMD.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd,
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
SIKAP OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
jfitulhlnlhc
ihdwre
Across in Washington, leaders of the United
States and Canada' have been conferring on the
distribution of huge unsold stockpiles of gram and
other commodities. Nevertheless, there are to be mil
sowings in 1954.
The United States has about 5500 million dollars
(£A2475 million) worth of surplus food. While
President Eisenhower is proposing to give away, m
three years, about 1000 million dollars worth to
friendly countries, the granaries and farms in North
America are full, with undistributed produce: Canada
is still drawing on its 1952 wheat crop, and payment
in full for the 1953 crop has not been made. But
there will be full sowings in 1954.
Now this, to my thinking, is a triumph of
achievement not a tragedy. America is not over-
produced ;it is underconsumed. It means that the
Americans and Canadians have reached their goal
of producing more food than they themselves need,
and to a certain degree, we have done the same in
Australia. The democracies have made the grade.
It has been a great achievement to attain this
position but it will be a still greater achievement to
maintain it.
Asians and other hungry people will need all the
food this earth can produce. Australia’s job is to
work with the big food-producing nations, and see
that these surpluses are maintained and that they
are used to direct the MIND of Asia towards the
democratic way of life.
Here in Australia we must not falter in our own
duty. The risk is not in producing but in failing
to produce. We should be working towards surpluses
in all our commodities—towards surplus power,
particularly electric power from our coal and water
resources —towards the development and use of the
big uranium potential of Rum Jungle, one of the
world’s largest deposits of its kind —towards every-
thing that will make for richer yield in all the fields
we traverse. To stint, to limit, to restrict would be
supreme folly in a land that cries for development.
Right from Biblical times there have been cycles
of lean years and years of plenty; times when some
lands were fruitful and others in famine. But never
before in history were whole nations able to say to
those less fortunate: “Here is what our civilisation
with its democratic way of life has produced in more
than abundance. Take it, and live.”
This could be the starting of the new world for
which men have prayed and men have fought and
given their lives. Our job is to see that Australia
does not falter in its efforts to speed it on.
added the lean-to kitchen at the
back, we’d practically ceased
operations. And we’d had ideas,
too, about a veranda to keep the
sun off. The saplings and bark
kitchen did not look affluent like
the brick part, nor did the shed
with the bark-roof ; and most of
the sheets of bark deserted the
shed after a while and those that
did not actually leave half-
slipped off and then stayed there
in a drunken-looking state. A
blazing, courageous sunflower
every year was our flower-
garden.
Putting in a ceiling, lining the
walls, and having a door between
the two rooms remained as
dreams only ; but we did hang
a cane curtain between the two
rooms where Uncle had left the
space for a door.
We complained a little,,
though, and always said that
Uncle should not have built our
home (or part of our home)
almost on top of the big ants’-
nest, because, by the size of it,
the ants must have been in resi-
dence there before Cook landed.
It must have had underground
tunnels stretching for miles, we
said, and we tried to get rid of
them by every known human
device for getting rid of ants,
including the advice of Bert
Onions, who cracked stones
opposite our place. We gave up
in the end, and a sort of truce
came into existence between us,
and we let them take a short-cut
through the house.
We also wished Uncle had built
our house away from the seven-
teen giant stumps that blotted
out our view of other better-
looking stumps. There’d been a
fire hereabouts once and the tops
of them had all been burnt black,
which gave them a funereal
look; and, in addition, the chief
undertaker of the mob wore a
series of knots and lumps that
gave it a most miserable expres-
sion, which miserable expres-
sion gaped fair bang in our front
door. We always wished that it
faced the opposite way. The
grubbing of this depression eye-
sore was also included in our
dreams.
But we did give our home a
name; and it was my job to
paint on a slab of wood, in firm,
large, black lettering, the name
of our residence. Lots of people
said it looked like a roadside
sign ; but I let it go.
The passing years took a hand
at making alterations and addi-
tions by getting us to add a com-
munity of heavy stones to the
back slope of the roof, and we
also added a cartwheel that had
long retired from the roads to
the kitchen roof. The roof on
the front part of the house re-
mained intact; but it was an
everlasting battle with the wind
and it —they were always at it.
And whenever a storm came
along, it was all hands to the
front of the roof. The younger
members of the family looked
forward to such disturbances
(sitting up on the roof broke the
monotony of things) and they'd
always have an ear cocked for
the wind to blow. Our family
holding the roof down looked
better than a heap of logs, and
besides, when the danger had
passed, the family hopped down
off the roof, whereas, had we
kept it on with logs —well, they’d
have had to be fixed on, and
remain on, too, which would
have spoilt the front view of our
place.
Time also removed the top of
the chimney, and some fellows
from up north also contributed
their bit by throwing blue metal
through the windows, over which
gashes we pasted brown paper,
with the result that the little
place looked as if it had two
black-eyes, and, with the chim-
ney shortened, began to wear a
sort of squat, pugfaced appear-
ance.
SOME pretty rough men up
our way used to go on the
drunk, and one Christmas day
one of them rode up to our front
door and, sweeping off his hat
in mock politeness, said, “Give
us some plum puddin’!”
We had no plum pudding and
he was told so. We never had
plum pudding any more than we
had crackers on Guy Fawkes’
night, gifts from Father Christ-
mas or presents on our birthdays.
He reared his horse. “Come
on ; Christmas puddin’! ”
Again we told him we had no
plum pudding.
He spurred his horse nearer to
the door. “Give me some Christ-
mas puddin’!” he shouted, “or
I’ll get it myself.”
I slammed the door and turned
the key. Then I ran to the win-
dow and looked out.
He’d pulled his horse round
and was backing it towards the
door. “You’ll keep me out, will
you?” He dug the spurs in and
the horse lashed out, kicking
the door.
“Now will y’ open the door?”
he called. Nothing happening,
his drunken voice rose again.
“Are y’ goin’ to open?” And
again nothing happening, he
yelled, “Well, I’m cornin’ in.”
I remembered him saying that
—after it was all over ; for 1 lost
all sense of things as he again
put the spurs in and a rain of
kicks thundered on the door,
which, with a crash, fell in, frame
and all.
The family ran into the other
room and I darted to the kitchen
door and slid the bolt back
ready to run for help.
The hindquarters of his horse
blocked up the space where the
door had been, “Now do I get
some puddin’?” he said; then
he bent low down over the saddle
and, backing the horse into
our house, the horse took fright,
reared, and, now like a mad
thing, began to buck and plunge
round and round the room,
shaking the cane curtains that
separated the two rooms where
the door should have been.
Next he slid out of the saddle
and struck the horse over the
nozzle with the broad, flat palm
of his big hand and it went
plunging from wall to wall, rear-
ing, revolving, and it looked as
if our one-brick-thick wall might
go if the horse crashed into any
side of it.
Our old pine table was the
first casualty. Two of its legs
went flying while the three Aus-
trian chairs were fighting it out
with the horse’s flying hooves.
And, as I stood, petrified, in the
kitchen, the things on our mantel-
piece spouted up into the air
and fell in a shower to the floor,
to the sound of things breaking,
with our musical clock, which
hadn’t chimed a note for years,
now blissfully playing the sweet
strains of “Home, Sweet Home.”
And our one lovely pink lustre,
that had always stood on the
end of the mantelpiece, lay shat-
tered into a heap of pieces, the
broken crystal glinting and shin- ;
ing on the floor.
I stood dreading that the in-
ferno of a horse might suddenly
go kicking and plunging fear-
fully through the cane curtains
into that other room.
Then, as quickly as it had all
happened, he got the horse out
the door, was in the saddle and
off, riding like a madman; and
he’d no sooner gone, and the
sudden calm had settled over the
scene of wreckage, when, like a
gang of bushrangers, out from
behind the cane curtains came
the children.
Long had they wanted those
gracefully-cut crystals that hung
round the sides of the pink
lustre; those flashing, glinting,
gleaming ornaments that made
little rainbows when their young
hands had set them moving;
thin, hanging rainbows that
made faint music when they
touched. Out came the plun-
derers and, whooping with joy,
swooped down on the fragments,
scrambled for the treasure they’d
heard crash, and now all push-
ing, shoving and squabbling
about each one getting the best,
the largest, or the most pieces of
the pretty crystal they’d always
wanted to play with.
TI7E went to the front and stood
’ * looking miserably at the
gaping hole where the door had
been ; then got the door and the
frame up ; but the next strong
wind blew it in again and it now
gave us no protection against the
elements ; also we were at the
mercy of any stranger who might
seek to force his way into the
house.
So I cut a tree down, barked
it (to make it look better), and
then measured the width of our
house from the front door to the
back wall and cut the pole to
that length. It was as thick
through as a man’s thigh. All
the notches were smoothed off
so that the children wouldn’t
scratch themselves on it. Then
we got it into the house somehow
and leaned it up against the
wall —our new lock.
Every night now we’d lean
the pole against the door and
when morning came then move
the pole a bit to one side and
free the door. If a storm blew
up during the day, back it would
go-
All the years we lived there it
was still there, and the family
used to duck under it, and step
over it; and on wet days it was
used to dry the clothes on, ahd
at other time to hang some of
our clothes over.
Every night, as soon as it be-
came dark, I’d hear “Have you
put the pole up?” and “Put the
pole up” was as common to me
as reminders to other boys to
shut the fowls up for the night,
or bring in the evening wood for
the fire. We could not have
settled down for the night unless
the “pole was up” ; which meant
that it was leaning against the
door.
People used to laugh when
they saw it stretching right
across our room; but it spelt
peace for us and a sense of safety
against the wandering nomads
of the road.
And what a menagerie we
must have looked sometimes:
the young members of the family
climbing up it like monkeys,
swinging on it, hanging by their
feet to it —at one time a swing
was attached to it and it was
nothing to see a young brother
or sister swinging through the
air, the more daring trying to
touch the rafters with their toes,
THE inside of our brick walls,
with which Uncle put up
the bricklaying record, was so
rough that it wasn’t a case with
us of not marking our walls,
but a case of being careful not
to have the walls mark us.
Plaster! Lashings of it. It
oozed out between the bricks like
waves of lava. It folded over in
rolls. It hung down as in a cave.
Fountains of it. Oh, Uncle, how
reckless you were! Festoons of
plaster draping the walls. Hard,
unflinching, rock-like cascades
of bulging, brimming, rolling
plaster. Oh, Uncle, how you
whopped it on! Banged it
Bashed it. Plaster rolling to-
wards us like the waves ot the
sea!
But the pole, and the exceed-
ingly rough interior of our home,
also had their own advantageous
sides to them, too, and taught
us to move carefully, use our
feet soberly, no careless deport-
ment; and so we never tell tout
of the roughness or bumped our
shins or heads on the pole. Why,
the children could romp recK-
lessly, if they wanted to, and still
not hurt or mark themselves ,
and, in after-life, none of us,
when visiting the elite, ever
tripped over a carpet, brushed
wineglass off a table, collided
with anything on their mante-
piece, or shoved their turmture
against their walls,
When it rained, of course, our
second-hand roof provided
symphony of sound, ana some
us had our own tunes to nt i
with the melody ot the drips na
fell into the many utensils w
always put out to catch me drips,
The tub played like a bass nod ,
the wash-up dish was a ,
the dipper a flute, and er
were lots ot other mstrumen
(Continued on page Jj)


U
/
Ss®
YOUR
TAILOR
TO SHOW YOU THE
LATEST DOUBLE WARP
AND DOUBLE WEFT
PATTERNS OF THE
FAMOUS PURE WOOL
SVusabev
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Cl 13.3
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM HENRY JACK SANDELL
of Sydney. TAKE NOTICE that
MARGARET DAWN SANDELL has filed
a Petition No. 542 of 1954 for Divorce
on the grounds that you have repeatedly
assaulted and cruelly beaten the Peti-
tioner If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 28th June 1954 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
F. W. REILLY, Solicitor, of 79 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
1
You will be pleasantly surprised
at the moderate prices of
the high quality
watches in the
La vina
range.
JL Ladies’
*J%Li 17-jewel-
led Lavinas
™ are priced from
only £l4/15/-.
Gent’s
17-jewelled
Lavinas are priced
from only £l2/15/-.
JL- Every LAVINA has a non-
“ magnetic escapement and a
17-jewelled movement.
LAVSNA
WATCHES
A ik.c 4 iiliihvo
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts., H. V. La wry,
Sydney. Manager.
“MIDLAND” MADRAS CUBBY
POWDER:
WANTED Sole Agents and Stockists
throughout Australia for sales of the
above, packed in suitable containers at
competitive rates. Liberal Commission
allowed. Only really interested concerns
who can effect large turnover need apply to
Midland Tea & Produce Company,
P.O. Box 3329, Madras-2 (India).
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Wind in the
Willows by Kenneth Grahame.—5780.
To buy copy of Reflections on the
Death of a Porcupine by D. H.
Lawrence.—5779.
To buy Australian Literature, 2
vols., by E. Morris Miller.—5778.
Australian war-bride, ex-
W.A.A.A.F., returning to Australia
after eight years’ absence, seeks fur-
nished flat or cottage, Sydney, for
husband (ex-R.N.) and three small
children.—5777.
To buy book giving histories of
Australian place-names.—5776.
To get in touch with the secretary
of any Yorkshire society in Aus-
tralia,—5775.
To buy copy of We Were the Rats
by Lawson Glassop.—s77l.
Words of verses “The Dancing
Girl of Ankar” and “The Return”
by Ralph Adeney.—s772.
Information Sought
During a cricket-match the ball was
hit and lost. Seven had been run
when “lost ball” was called. How
many runs should be allowed?
Seven runs must be credited to the
batsman. Law 21 states: “If a ball
in play cannot be found or recovered
any fieldsman may call ‘Lost Ball,’
when six runs shall be added to the
score; but if more than six have been
run before ‘Lost Ball’ be called, as
many runs as have been run shall be
scored.” It is not the duty of the
umpire to call “Lost Ball”; that
must be done by a fieldsman.
* * * *
(7) What was the annual defence
expenditure by Australia in the years
of World War 1 and immediately
after? (2) What was spent on fleet-
construction for the R.A.N. in the
same period ?
(1) 1913-14, £4,752,300; 1914-15,
£19,554,779; 1915-16, £45,961,077;
1916-17, £66,043,005; 1917-18,
£70,681,056; 1918-19, £87,002,671;
1919-20, £73.712,952. (2) 1913-14,
£637,606; 1914-15, £467,296; 1915-16,
£396,073 ; 1916-17, £374,249; 1917-18,
£355,397; 1918-19, £533,694; 1919-20,
£366,695. Figures from the Common-
wealth Official Year-book, No. 14
(1901-20).
* * # *
Some idea of the respective num-
bers of the various types of sheep
bred in N.Z. ?
Merinos were the first sheep taken
to N-Z., from Sydney in 1834. It
was soon proved that Merinos were
not suited to the wetter parts of the
North Island, though in high country
in the South Island they were found
to stand up better to extreme condi-
tions of climate. Romneys, South-
downs, Border Leicesters and other
English breeds were subsequently
imported; the Romney Marsh is now
the most popular sheep, accounting
•l P* c - The Merino ewe fur-
nished the foundation of the cross-
bred stock; towards the end of last
century systematic inbreeding of
Merino-longwool half-bred sheep re-
sulted in the production of the Corrie-
dale. The total number of sheep in
N.Z. at April 30, 1949, according to
the 1950 New Zealand Official Year-
book, was 32,844,918. Exclusive of
“Crossbreds and others not otherwise
enumerated” (22,574,338), the main
figures for distinctive breeds were:
5,987,036 Romneys, 1,920,014 half-
bred, 1,012,653 Cprriedales, 764,541
Merinos, 502,717 Southdowns, 32,995
Border Leicesters.
* * * *
What were Kingsford-Smith’s prin-
cipal flights?
In June, 1927, in a British Tourer
he flew around Australia; in June,
1928, U.S.A. to Australia in Fokker
F.7-3M aircraft VH-USU (the famed
Southern Cross); in 1928, non-stop
flight from Point Cook (Vic.) to Perth
(W.A.) and return; Sept., 1928, Rich-
mond (N.S.W.) to Christchurch
(N.Z.); Oct., 1928, return flight across
Tasman; June-July, 1929, England-
Australia flight in 12 days 18hrs.
(then a recdrd); June, 1930, Ireland
to Newfoundland in 32hrs. 12min.;
Oct., 1930, England-Australia in Avro-
Anson in 10 days; Oct., 1933, Eng-
land-Australia by stages in Percival
Gull in 7 days 4hrs. 50min. (then a
record). On Nov. 6, 1935, Smithy
left England for Australia in the
Lady Southern Cross and was last
heard of near Builna. His aircraft
was presumed to have crashed into
the sea.
♦ • ♦ ♦
What are the Biglow Papers?
American satire verses written in
Yankee dialect, supposedly by one
Hosea Biglow, but actually by James
Russell Lowell (1819-91), an American
poet, essayist and diplomat (he was
U.S. Minister in London from 1880
to 1885). The first series appeared in
1848 and dealt with the U.S. war
with Mexico. The second series
appeared in 1867 and dealt with the
Civil War.
Brief Answers
M.M.: The first submarine-cable
between Australia and Britain was
opened in 1871. For some years be-
fore that there had been cable-com-
munication between Britain and Asia,
which was then extended from Java
to Port Darwin to meet the overland
telegraph-line to Adelaide. The ser-
vice was opened, as stated, in 1871.
In 1902 the Pacific cable-route was
completed and opened; it runs from
Vancouver, via Fanning Island, Suva
and Norfolk Island, to Brisbane....
Ajax; The Burmese are Mongols, kin
to the Chinese and the inhabitants of
Thailand and Indo-China. It is pro-
bably because Burma was for so long
administered as a province of India
that most people tend to regard the
Burmese as closely kin to the Indians.
The Indians, however, are a darker
race. They are Aryans and Dravi-
dians, not, of course, Mongols. The
Burmese language is of the same group
of languages as the Chinese....
E.H.M.: The raising of Iceland-pop-
pies and pansies from seed is not
usually difficult, if the seed is not
more than 12 months old. Late sum-
mer and early autumn are best times
to sow. The poppies would need some
light shading during the hot months,
and the pansies would also appreciate
light shading if sown during January
or February; the failure of your seeds
to germinate could have been due to
their being burned-off in the early
stage of germination. In the North
Coast (N.S.W.) district seed could be
sown during April. Iceland-poppy
seed should only be covered very
lightly with a mixture of sieved leaf-
mould and sand to a depth of about
one-eighth of an inch.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken ro
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary ,
M.E.F.: At least you’re game
enough to own to the authorship
J.A.S.: That old swaggie has worn
out several waste-paper baskets in
his time... .N. 8.: You’ve lost the
story in a volume of description
C.L.; Let your Muse rest till she’s
over her Easter jag....M.A.: Yours
was the seventeenth “Down for the
Show” verse in a fortnight; it rated
seventeenth also P.M.; Those
Cockney charwomen belong to a for-
gotten day....W.5.: Story over-
crowded with non-essentials and
humor as flat as last week’s unfinished
beer R.C.; The Sporting Editor
put the boxing kangaroo to rest in
the first round J.M.M.: You
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
managed the boarding-house keeper
but made a hash of her boarders
W.W.: From what graveyard are you
resurrecting those plots?... .EJ.S.:
Progress is not startling, but you are
getting nearer to publication standard.
... .R.F.8.: No desire to present your
metho-drinkers to our readers
H.L.: It’s not the first plot that was
ever thought of, but it’s pretty close
to it J.D.: One of these days some
undiscrimfaating person will publish
one of those and you’ll never live
it down A.S.: “Oh! What a
clever paper is the Sydney Bulletin.”
You make us blush P.S.R.: “Tell
me, is it mostly drivel?” Mostly
R. Mcß.: It takes more than facetious
dialogue to make a yarn... .O.B.:
“When Casey Rides the Range” our
doors are locked and our windows are
barred R.G.: Your mystery stories
remind us of the chap who makes up
riddles without bothering to make up
answers for them Anon; Presume
you declined to sign that masterpiece
for fear your mother-in-law would sue
you for libel A.W.: Poem dashed
off in five minutes was rejected in
as many seconds... .N.T.: Hard to
say who was the most unconvincing,
the bailiff, the boarder or the
demented landlord.... H. McC.:
“The Old Bush Track” just follows
the old bush-track... .F.T.F.: Old
Bill’s >been haunting this office for
years....H.L.J.: One of these days
you’ll probably get around to writing
something Australian...-N.C.: You
should be able to turn 5000 words to
better use than that A. 8.: Next
time that deadbeat arrives he wifi be
received with guns P.W.: “The
Heat Wave” is cooling off in the
w.p.b H.A.8.: “In my particular
case what are the main obstacles to a
career of short-story writing?” Your
short stories K.J.D.: The fate of
the aged sundowner left us uncon-
cerned... .S.G.: “Allow me to offer
you this, Mr. Editor.” “Allow us to
thank you and decline it, Mr. Con-
tributor” R.P.: Being in love is
no excuse for trying to rhyme
“remember” with “veranda”
S. McD.: You don’t live up to the
self-praise of the covering letter....
M.S.: Well, it’s a pleasant change to
meet an old dog that isn’t howling
over a dead master... .N.T.E.: “1
write for pleasure.” Whose?
J.P.: No, afraid it won’t be remem-
bered as one of the bright short stories
of 1954 M.D.: Shorten, polish,
and try it on a women’s paper.


For easier.
quicker.
«gS5
shavina!
Gillette
DISPENSER
SS
SSSS
\v
W0*
Slv
1
V>
*v«
a*
**
S;v->:
blade
a flash!
A
new
n
o
a
/
VS
ZL
and. ..a place to
hold used blades!
Speed up your shaving and end the used blade
nuisance at the same time! The new Gillette 10-
Blade Dispenser gives you factory-sharp blades ready
for instant use. Sharpest edges in the world com-
pletely oil protected by new exclusive Gillette
process. Simply stow away your used blades in the
built-in compartment at the back.
and it costs you nothing extra
... you pay only for ihe blades!
SEE!
NEW 10-Bldde A/a
DISPENSER ... O' 3
10 Blade PACKET ... 3/9
5 Blade PACKET . . . 1/10*
20 Blade DISPENSED .. 7/6
slue
Gillette
blades
AO l
•GOOD MORNINGS' BEGIN WITH GILLETTE
such as the jug, several jam- tins,
the big pot, the two small pots,
the big basin, the kero.-tin
(which was the drum) and, for a
heavy downpour, the piece of
earthenware with the pretty
little pink roses painted on it
that belonged to beneath the big
bed.
We had huge drips, big drips,
small drips, thin drips, fat drips,
long drips, short drips, drips that
dripped quickly, drips that hung
for a long time and fell heavily,
light drips, weighty drips.
We had to move certain
pieces of furniture, too, when it
rained; steered our bed between
the drum and the fiddle, moved
the sofa between the ’cello and
the flute, the table between the
slow drip and the quick drip, all
of us snug and dry, listening to
the melodies about us, and, as
we sat before the fire, one of us
had a head craned a little to the
eft to miss “Annie Laurie,” or
a foot to the right to dodge
Sons of the Sea,” with, before
as, a picture, too, of falling fire
as the rain coming in caught the
red glow of the flames.
AND then we left it all; never,
ever, saw the little house
again—or ever forgot it.
How strange it seemed the day
we deserted it; how terribly
empty the two rooms looked;
how hollow, as we all kept troop-
ing lost-like about the now empty
home—not that it ever had
anything much in it. It seemed
to be part of us. The old sofa
that had just gone down the
road in the cart felt part of . us,
too, with its broken, jangling
legs bumping over the side of
the cart as if seeking to escape;
and the worn and mended arm-
chair and the rest of our poor
belongings all shaking and
twisting and knocking and
squirming about in the cart as
if to get back to us again.
How heavy our feet sounded
as we stumped from empty room
to empty room —our good-bye.
We talked in whispers. And
now we tiptoed about. Then we
all went-over and looked at the
old rakish-looking shed. Next
we stared at the little bark
“house of Parliament,” as we
called it, and each one in turn,
to be safe on the road, entered
it.
Asa friend will tuck a sick
friend in bed before parting, so
I’d cleaned and raked all round
the little place before leaving,
and saw that the tap on the tank
was turned off tightly. Then,
finally, having seen that the pole
was leaning up against the front
door, too, we next pulled the
back door to and turned the key
in the lock, on the outside, and
left it'all, land and house, as a
gift to anybody who might want
it.
Yes, the name of the house
I’d painted on the slab of wood
was left intact: the name that
used to make passers-by laugh,
swaggies stare almost in horror,
teamsters, drovers, drivers and
bullockies point their whips at it,
and all those who’d never heard
of such a place-name scratch
their head and wonder why on
earth we had given our place
such a funny name, especially at
a time when one of our burning
droughts was on, dusty, sweaty
men were carting precious water
past in tanks and none of us
could hardly get enough water
to wash our faces, let alone have
a wash all over.
As we drove away, we stared
silently at the little place, until
the dim grey curtain of the dis-
tance came down and covered it
from view —B A T H, named
after that genteel, salubrious,
aristocratic old English city,
which, later, Hitler called “a
city of gouty plutocrats.”
WINTER Sunshine
By NANCY KEESING
THE charming little park at
Elizabeth Bay, sheltered
by its high brick wall, lay
warmly green in the early
afternoon sunlight of winter,
almost seemed to glitter and
sparkle itself with the play of
water-reflections on the wall near
the harbor, and with the quick
movement, laughter and tears
and bickering of children.
Children everywhere: kicking
bare legs in prams and pushers ;
playing chasings; swarming up
the stone harbor wall to see the
cold bright water; fishing from
the end of the toy jetty.
Young mothers, too ; knitting,
sewing, reading, gossiping, pre-
paring vegetables, calling “Jenny,
look out!” and “Simon, what did
I tell you?” and “Oh, Tony,
surely not, but just before we
left the flat you ...”
Old people drowsed on
benches, alone because of w’eari-
ness perhaps, and foreign people
stared about them, forced into
solitude by their unschooled
tongues.
Monica came there every
winter afternoon.
What better way to demon-
strate how glad she was to have
■ no children of her own than by
appearing, elegantly dressed,
immaculately manicured, end-
lessly leisured and carrying a
sheaf of expensive magazines.
among the other young married
women. She knew them all,
patronised them and their
children, made the silly ones
jealous and the more sensible
ones laugh. She was not disliked
and she had no idea that some
of them found her laughable.
Today she sat with Evie Camp-
bell, a thin, dark, willy-wagtail
of a Polish girl, married to an
Australian; and Harriet Mico-
lowski, an Australian, brown-
haired and still half-suntanned,
whose husband was a Pole.
These two usually met at the
park, and desultorily taught each
other the language of their
respective spouses. Their
children were old enough to play
by themselves.
66T SAW Greta this morning
at the grocer’s,” Monica
greeted them, “shell be coming
down here again soon, with the
new baby.”
“Is good,” said Evie Campbell,
“she is well, no?”
“Quite well,” said Monica,
“but oh, so tired-looking.”
“All those kids one after the
other, poor girl,” said Harriet.
Her eyes searched for and found
her own two boys, five years
and three —nicely spaced, she
congratulated herself. Evie
looked for her girls, too, they
were almost exactly the same
ages as Harriet’s boys—is luck
they came no closer, she thought,
thankfully.
“Of course,” Monica sighed,
crossing her legs so that Evie
and Harriet might fully appre-
ciate the sheerness of her stock-
ings, the spiked impracticality of
her heels, “of course you know
why they’re having all these
kids?”
“Is religion, no?” asked Evie.
“No.”
“Quite on purpose?” asked
Harriet.
“Entirely,” smiled Monica
knowingly. “My husband knows
Greta’s. It’s like this ...”
“Wait on,” Harriet said, “Jan,
Jan! Stop that this instant!
Stop it I say . . . Sorry, Monica,
go on.”
“Well, you kp'bw all those
hobbies Greta’s always talking
about...”
“Is talking about what?”
“Hobbies, Evie ...” Harriet
explained the word.
“Ah, yes, yes. I know. The
mail-order, yes? The radio-
making, the hats-trimming, the
books-cases she will make one
day, no?”
“Yes, that’s it, Evie.”
“Is funny one that. Always
she talk. So many children
never she do.”
“Yes,” mused Harriet, “when
you come to think of it, with
Greta it always is the things
she’s going to do when she has
time. It makes her sound so
interesting. And then, just
when she gets all teed-up to
start, bingo, she’s on the way
with another!”
“Is sad. Indeed. Only time
for sew and knit and cook and
clean —things we do, too, but
we do not want any—how you
call it, Harriet?”
“Hobby.”
MONICA meanwhile had
gracefully opened “Vogue,”
and was studying trends in
cocktail dresses with great atten-
tion.
Harriet said; “But, Monica,
sorry, we didn’t let you finish
your story.”
“Story?”
“Yes, about Greta’s large
family.”
“Oh, but you two more-or-
less finished it for yourselves.
I mean, no man wants every
room filled up with mail-order
junk. Specially when his rather
helpless wife takes a fancy to
cabinet-making. He’d rather
keep her occupied in her own
sphere. Thank goodness,” she
went on, examining a minute
chip in the red of one finger-
nail, “thank goodness I’m just
a contented home-body. Damn
this nail. I’ll have to leave
early and do them again. We’re
going out for drinks tonight.
All the way into town. Such
a bore. ’Bye, girls.”
Harriet and Evie watched her
as she crossed the smooth grass
towards the road.
Evie shook her head; “Is
having no children. Great pity.”
“No hobbies!” said Harriet
grimly.


Reaction to Criticism
Three Years with
MENZIES
By STEWART COCKBURN
THE Prime Minister’s obses-
sion with first-class cricket
is pretty well known, and
he and former Test captain
Lindsay Hassett have long been
mutual admirers.
Hassett has a pretty wit which,
in his after-dinner speeches, has
pleased the Prime Minister
almost as much as his cricket.
And his staff will never forget
Menzies’s delight when, for his
grandson’s first birthday, a
miniature cricket-bat arrived
inscribed to “Alexander Robert
Menzies,” and bearing the signa-
tures of every member of the
contemporary Australian Eleven.
The statesman and the
cricketer have another lesser-
known bond in common, how-
ever. In crises of government
and cricket respectively, they
each refrain from reading the
masses of criticism to which they
are currently subjected.
In an article written after the
1953 tour of England, Hassett
said:
PersonaUy X did not read the
cricket news in the daily newspapers
during the major part of the season,
and I feel sure that any captain—
or for that matter any player—would
be well advised to do the same.
Expert advice is always welcome
and helpful, but public criticism,
however just, can do no more
than disturb and upset a player,
especially when he is getting tired
and jaded through living in a con-
tinuous cricket atmosphere over a
long period.
If you substituted the word
“politics” for “cricket” in that
paragraph it could have come
from the pen of R. G. Menzies.
Menzies is normally a careful
reader of his newspapers, and
does not need a Press-secretary
to draw his attention to anything
relevant politically. But in a
crisis he would take a leaf out of
the book of L B. Chifley, who
once said: “In making a de-
cision, do the thing you believe
instinctively to be right. That
usually turns out to be the best
thing to do. Once you’ve made
your decision, don’t worry about
it.”
For both men that was perhaps
an oversimplification. Neither
Menzies nor Chifley would, with
great issues at stake, rely simply
on instinct. But, having con-
sidered all the evidence available,
they would do what they felt
right in the circumstances, and
they would rarely be swayed
from their decision by a sudden
yelp of criticism from those who,
in the main, had not had the
advantage of studying all the
facts available to the Govern-
ment.
The right of the Press and of
public men outside Parliament
to criticise would not be denied.
And more often than not such
criticism would accurately reflect
the views of a large section of
the community.
Sometimes public thinking is
ahead of the Government. Some-
times it is the other way about.
But in cases where a decision is
irrevocable, and has been deeply
pondered beforehand, close
attention to a usually anticipated
storm of criticism serves only to
drive a Minister to the edge of
breakdown.
The bitter attack by a section
of the Sydney Press on the
Treasurer, Sir Arthur Fadden,
for having promoted a certain
income-tax measure in 1952 is a
good illustration of what un-
restrained public criticism can
do to a mind unduly sensitive to
it.
The Government’s decision on
the tax matter had been made
quite firmly for what were con-
sidered good reasons. It was
reviewed after private protests
had been made and it was con-
firmed.
Then a sustained campaign of
criticism was launched by one
newspaper, a campaign that
lasted for some weeks.
Had it been Menzies who was
attacked he would have read the
main headlines and skimmed
quickly through the letterpress
for a few days; then, when the
“campaign” nature of the attack
became obvious, he would have
refrained altogether from read-
ing the paper sponsoring the
attacks until they ceased.
Fadden, however, already
seriously run-down as a result of
the burdens of his difficult port-
folio since 1949, devoured every
word written against him as soon
as the papers reached him each
morning. For the duration of
the campaign he could talk or
think of very little else. The
added strain upon him was so
apparent to all who worked
beside him that, in retrospect, it
seems miraculous that he did not
collapse completely.
Certainly, such a collapse was
freely predicted in Parliament
House; and members of the
Press gallery, with whom he had
always been a popular figure,
went about their daily news-
gathering in ever-growing embar-
rassment at the deliberate baiting
of a Treasurer who was in no
condition to stand up to it, and
in which one or two of them
were professionally obliged to
take part.
Yet the criticism failed com-
pletely in its purpose. The
Cabinet, which was collectively
responsible for the measure
objected to, adhered to what it
believed was its proper decision.
And all that happened was that
the Treasurer suffered weeks of
anguish, and had his health, and
perhaps even his life, seriously
endangered.
The outcry against the 1951
Budget was a similar case in
point. Once the Budget was
brought down in the House there
was no changing it. The main
critics, who were by no means
confined to the Press itself, knew
this. They were free and entitled
to express their protests.
Yet for members of the Gov-
ernment to plunge every day into
the ocean of criticism which
swirled around them served only
to “make cowards of them all,”
and to temper the native hue of
their resolution with doubts and
anxieties which impaired their
ability to govern.
As it happens, the 1951 Budget
is now acknowledged by most
people who criticised it when it
was introduced as the turning-
point in the Australian fight
against inflation. So the men
who, having made their decision,
avoided too much worrying
about it have lived to see them-
selves vindicated.
One Minister said to me at the
time of the 1951 Budget:
“There’s too much emotionalism
in the public criticism of this
Country —too much outcry by
mere pressure-groups. Because
it is so easily recognised as such
it commands little respect among
responsible men.”
It can safely be asserted that
criticism, whether by newspapers
or by public men outside Parlia-
ment, influences Cabinet
BACK TO THE CACTUS
Bulletin cartoon comment of May 7, 1952, coinciding, of course, with the meeting of Parliament.
Ministers most strongly when it
is temperately expressed and
free from the flavor of “what-
we-can’t-get-by-reason-we’ll-take-
by-the-bludgeon.”
The moment his antagonists
take out, figuratively speaking,
the bludgeon, that is usually the
end of their case so far as
Menzies is concerned. His col-
leagues have seldom seen him so
angry as when, for instance, a
well-known manufacturer, Mr.
G. G. Foletta, declared in
September, 1953:
“If the Government does not
immediately raise the tariffs of
threatened industries, a consider-
able proportion of all the people
connected with our multiple
manufacturing industries will do
all in their power to see that a
Government is elected who will
recognise the true value of Aus-
tralian secondary industries to
the development of this Com-
monwealth.”
Mr. Foletta ill-served the
interests which he purported to
represent by his remark, even
though, when the Prime Minister
accused him of attempting to
blackmail the Government, he
formally denied the charge.
As for mere personal calumny,
to which few men have been
more brutally subjected, Menzies
invariably ignores it. Sometimes,
if his character is attacked in
Parliament under the protection
of Parliamentary privilege, he
exercises his right of reply. But
against lies, he believes, silence
is usually the best defence: “You
never catch up with a determined
slanderer by answering him
point by point.”
His reaction to such attacks
is similar to his attitude towards
anonymous letters: “Never take
any notice of anonymous letters,’
he advises his colleagues,
“ . . . unless you get a few
thousand of them on the same
subject!”
The Technique of the Smear
THE detestable technique of
the “smear,” as it is
employed in Australia for pur-
poses of character-assassination,
deserves special attention when
considering the position in public
life of R. G. Menzies.
There are a number of
notorious exponents of the tech-
nique in public life today,
though its political value as a
weapon to favor the cause of its
user is dubious. Too often it
recoils. Too often it is em-
ployed so crudely that decent
people everywhere react in favor
of the victim.
The member of Parliament,
protected as he is by Parlia-
mentary privilege from the
ordinary civil laws of slander
and libel, has a supreme respon-
sibility to use his privilege
honorably. If he comes into the
possession of information which
reflects on the character of an
opponent, or of anyone outside
Parliament, it is his clear duty to
take every reasonable means of
checking its authenticity before
disclosing it publicly in the
House.
Labor and non-Labor members
of Parliament suffer alike. The
late Mr. Curtin was the victim
of an outrageous whispering
campaign, utterly without foun-
dation, shortly before his death.
The political life of R. G.
Menzies has seldom been free
of malicious whispering cam-
paigns of this kind.
During 1951-53 some allega-
tions were uttered in Parliament
about which I was in a perfect
position to know the truth. They
deserve analysis in some detail
The allegations in question were
made in the House of Represen-
tatives, during the debate on the
adjournment on the evening of
August 6, 1952, by the member
for East Sydney, Mr. Ward, and
the member for Hindmarsh, Mr.
Clyde Cameron.
For purposes of this argument
it is taken for granted that Mr.
Ward and Mr. Cameron had
previously been assured by the
unknown authors of the allega-
tions that the “facts” which they
passed on to the House that
night were indeed true and con-
stituted a public scandal.


Mr. Ward, who spoke first,
was complaining about the cost
of Ministerial visits abroad, and
in the course of his remarks used
the following sentence; “I have
been assured from a fairly
reliable quarter that the cost of
one overseas visit by the Prime
Minister, Mr. Menzies, was
£BO,OOO, and I have been told
that his latest trip abroad cost
even more than that.”
Mr. Cameron, who spoke later,
said: “I have heard a number of
rather disturbing reports concern-
ing the last overseas visit by the
Prime Minister, Mr, Menzies.
A report is current in every State
in the Commonwealth that on his
visits to England and the United
States of America the right
honorable gentleman was accom-
panied by a retinue of nineteen
assistants, at least at some stage
of the tour... .The cost of the
Prime Minister’s recent visit was
£19,000”
Mr. Ward (interjecting):
“The cost was very much more
than that. The figure cited by
the honorable member repre-
sents only the personal expenses
of the Prime Minister.”
Mr. Cameron: “The cost of
the visit is shown in the Estimates
to have been £19,760, but, as the
honorable member for East
Sydney has said, the total cost of
the party was much more than
that. The travelling costs of
those who accompanied the right
honorable gentleman are shown
under other heads of expenditure.
It is likely that the total cost was
double the amount that I have
cited. The party included a
valet As the honorable
member for East Sydney has
said, it is also rumored that the
visit of the Prime Minister
abroad cost the Australian tax-
payers £BO,OOO. That rumor may
be false, but, in any event, the
Prime Minister should clear the
air and let the taxpayers know
whether the total cost of his visit
abroad, including costs incurred
in respect of the nineteen advisers
and assistants who accompanied
him, amounted to £BO,OOO or to
an amount slightly below that
figure. The right honorable
gentleman should explain to the
taxpayers whether his party
engaged a complete floor at the
Savoy Hotel in London, as it is
rumored it did; and he should
also state whether his party
engaged an extensive suite at the
Hotel Waldorf Astoria in New
York. It is also important that
the right honorable gentleman
should tell the people what
benefits have accrued to Aus-
tralia as a result of the expen-
diture that was incurred in
respect of his visit abroad.”
The visit to which Messrs.
Ward and Cameron were refer-
ring when they spoke about “the
latest trip abroad” of the Prime
Minister was that which took
place between May 13, 1952,
and July 2, 1952. This visit was
completed a few weeks before
their speeches in the House.
At the moment when they
spoke, no estimates for the trip
under discussion by them existed
in the then current Budget papers
because the journey had been
undertaken at short notice at the
personal invitation of the British
Prime Minister.
It would seem, however, that
they had heard rumors of costs
totalling about £BO,OOO, and Mr.
Ward had described the source
of his own information as “fairly
reliable,”
I was a member of the Prime
Minister’s party on this contro-
versial journey and am able to
say, not from any rumor or re-
port, but from my own personal
knowledge, that every feature of
the allegations for which Messrs.
Ward and Cameron were the
mouthpiece was false.
So far from there being a
“retinue of 19 assistants,” Mr.
Menzies’s party consisted of
eight people, including himself
and his wife. (It is an established
practice that a senior Minister
of the Government required to
travel abroad in the course of
duty may take with him his wife.
Labor Ministers, including Mr.
Ward himself, have followed the
practice in the past.)
Of the six officials who
accompanied him, four were
heads of Commonwealth de-
partments or their representa-
tives : the Secretary of the Prime
Minister’s Department, Mr.
A. S. Brown; the Secretary of
the Treasury, Dr, Roland Wil-
son ; the Secretary of the De-
partment of External Affairs,
Mr. A. S. Watt; and Brigadier
F. O. Chilton, representing the
Secretary of the Department of
Defence, Sir Frederick Shedden.
The remaining two were Mr.
Menzies’s private-secretary, Miss
H. Craig, and myself, Press-
secretary and secretary to the
delegation.
The trip lasted just on seven
weeks. Its total cost was
£12,724. This amount included
fares of all members of the
party (£5960); cable charges
(£2212); accommodation in San
Francisco, Washington, New
York, London and, for some
members of the party, Ottawa,
The Hague and Paris.
Neither the Prime Minister
nor any other member of the
party entered the doors of the
Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New
York, let alone occupied an
“extensive suite.” There was no
valet in the party, nor, of
course, has the Prime Minister
ever employed one.
Each member of the party
occupied an ordinary room at
the Savoy Hotel, with the excep-
tion that the six officials shared
three sitting-rooms between
them ; and the Prime Minister
and Mrs. Menzies occupied the
same suite (bedroom, sitting-
room and bathroom) which was
used by Mr. Chifley on his
visits to London.
Accommodation charges
debited to the Australian tax-
payer in respect to London,
Ottawa, The Hague and Paris
were, in any case, negligible, be-
cause in each instance the entire
party were guests of the Gov-
ernments poncerned.
The accuracy of the facts just
quoted is attested by depart-
mental accounts that have
been audited and are now public
property.
Mr. Ward referred to a figure
of £19,000 as having represented
“the personal expenses of the
Prime Minister.” On each occa-
sion on which I have accom-
panied Menzies overseas he
carried two letters of credit, one
which he used when drawing
money for official purposes, the
other when drawing for per-
sonal expenditure. The latter
expenditure was debited to his
private bank account; so that
no expenses which oould
properly be considered personal
became a charge on the Aus-
tralian taxpayer.
This has been his invariable
procedure on his various mis-
sions overseas, none of which
has ever cost Australian tax-
payers an amount of money re-
motely approaching the figure* of
£BO,OOO.
When Parliament adjourned
on August 6 I sought out Mr.
Cameron, protested privately to
him about his statements and
invited him to check them de-
partmentally. Cameron told me
he had sincerely believed his
statements to be correct. It is
only fair to say, however, that
he made the suggested check
and subsequently conveyed a
private apology to the Prime
Minister.
By that time, of course, his
and Mr. Ward’s statements had
been widely published through
the Press and over the radio.
A reply to them was made by
Menzies at a Press conference
which he held a day or two
later. This reply was also pub-
lished in the Press but in some
newspapers less prominently
than the allegations themselves.
And no doubt there are people
who to this day accept the alle-
gations as true.
How do such rumors begin?
Who starts them? Certainly, in
the case just discussed, the alle-
gations must have been pure
invention in the first place ; no
“garbling” explanation is suffici-
ent.
The law of libel prevents
discussion of other incidents
which would involve the naming
of individuals responsible for
attacks much more serious than
the one dealt with here. But it
is obvious that unsubstantiated
reflections on the character or
actions of public men, on either
side of politics, whether uttered
in Parliament or passed on as
“rumor” by word of mouth
without the protection of Par-
liamentary privilege, ought to be
treated by the ordinary citizen
with the utmost reserve until
they are either tested and proved
in the courts or before a royal
commission. Almost invariably
there is a political motive behind
the “smear” story. And politics
in this country are not played
according to vicarage tea-party
standards.
AN ALL-AUSTRALIAN TEAM
Bulletin cartoon comment of February 18, 1953; topical in a cricket as well as in a
political sense: it appeared in the same issue as the announcement of Hassett’s team to
tour England.
“What benefits,” Mr. Clyde
Cameron had asked on August
6, “have accrued to Australia
as a result of the expenditure
incurred in respect of the Prime
Minister’s visit abroad?”
Menzies himself had made an
effort to answer that question,
fairly fully, on the evening of
his return to Australia only a
month previously.
In a 3000-word statement to
the Press at Mascot airport he
disclosed that he had secured tor
Australia a further loan of fifty-
million dollars from the Inter-
national Bank (the World Bank)
, • . T , . . •
m Washington, He had negofi-
ated an agreement for the sale
. t
of Australian uranium with the
Combined Development Agency
of the Atomic Energy Commis-
sion an agreement which en-
s V. red hiaximum possible sup-
plies for defence purposes for
Britain and the United States,
as well as for Australia’s own
ouroSs Austral,as own
He had ended the impasse
lie naa enuea me impasse
which was holdmg-up the estab-
lishment of the Pacific Defence
Council under the provisions of
the Anzus Pact. He had
accelerated the procurement
from overseas of military
materials for Australian de-
fence. He had pressed other
Governments to the point where,
for the first time, Australia was
given specific export targets on
which to base a higher food-
production programme.
He had urged in the highest
quarters the importance of the
security of South-East Asia
against Communist aggression,
a problem which Australia
feared was receiving only
secondary attention in contem-
porary Allied defence councils,
He had laid the foundation for
the 1952 Commonwealth Bco-
nomic Conference in London.
He had completed certain
arrangements for the Royal tour
of Australia.
He had negotiated certain
minor adjustments in the new
import-licensing restrictions ap-
plied in March, 1952. And, per-
haps most important of all, he
had explained the Australian
point of view on these restric-
tions so cogently and clearly, not
only to the British Government
but to the exporters and people
of Britain, that serious criticism
of Australia for her action
largely died away and good rela-
tions between the two countries,
which were certainly threatened
at the time when the restrictions
were announced, were once more
restored.
For a 50-day mission most
people would regard this as not
a bad record of achievement.
rL p "Common Touch "
,
TLCENZIES has never had the
' LTJ - desire for mere popularity
m his own time. It never wor-
nes him greatly whether his
contemporaries think well of
him or not. His main concern is
that his work shall stand as
good in the impartial judgment
of the years.
So he will not shrink from
offending political friend or
enemy if he regards the need for
plain speaking as sufficiently
important. His close friends
claim this attitude is one of
. ... TT . . -
integrity. His enemies say it is
arrogance.
0
The British people do not
appear t 0 considcr that it
derogates from Sir Winston
Churchill’s greatness if he spends
bis holidays at Marrakesh, in
Morocco, instead of at South-
end . smo k es a dear instead of
ii-’ sna ? Kes a Cl p ar m Sle aa 01
rolling hisi own cigarettes ; pro-
Scotch whisky to a pint o£
mi id-and-bitter ; and speaks with
aristocratic Hsn instead of
1 P mst ad
ZZ y ‘ .
There are nevertheless many
Australians who think that be-
ca^ se Menzies is not a regular
P atron °f tbe do 8 s i because
b ®. rare ly appears in public in
sbl I 1 1 t and braces, but without a
col ’ ar and tie » because he tails
dro P a ° aitcb ever Y now anb[
tben ». and because he doesn t
Jom m the six-o’clock swill
a { J o .'3e&fencks
a “ deficiencies, he can
’ iL n
a £ “ ucb a J a man Wlth a ha,ner
chest and face.
Perhaps for these reasons it
has long been claimed that
Menzies does not possess “the
common touch.”
If, in this context, “common”
is made synonymous with “vul-
gar” most of his friends would
agree. He harbors a contempt
for vulgarity in any form which
he always finds it hard to con-
ceal.
A smutty story, for instance,
which relies for its effect more
on smut than anything else has
never pleased him ; but he proves
that he is no prude by relishing
a story with as much hair on it
as you like provided it also con-
tains real wit.
He uses lurid language rarely,
probably because his own splen-
did vocabulary can usually be
much more expressive without
recourse to the three or four
basic expletives that the rest of
us find so convenient.
But as for “lack of the com-
mon touch,” his “Meet the
People” tours in the last two
Y ears have dispelled the notion
for the thousands who have met
bim personally,
xhen there is football. Mel-
bourne journalist Hugh Buggy
watc hed Menzies in “the outer”
at a roug h grand-final between
Carlton and South Melbourne in
1945. X his is what he wrote
a bout it some years later:
Menzies certainly makes no
insincere pretence that he is
wa £ HewS inlTefatig”
able supporter of Carlton, and he
|^ e ® 'to°see n< the
Bines win.
®’°f tw ® emMWfimtod hours that
full-throated bellow “Bowl ’em over,
B iues!” is music to Menzies. He
enjoys every minute of it.
For two hours he puts behind
him ail the problems and pother
£ ni J oU g2t ¥ . Sd >k ”wS we Sie?S
doing are far more vital to the
otlmon^e
saying or doing....
Although he isn’t often seen at
, Although he isn t otten seen at
the races, Menzies also knows
his horses better than „
ter The Melbourne Cup is
u;„ hettine occasion of the
h smgl ® ? , g occasion or , me
Y ea ri and he always knows when
he lays out his couple of pounds
G n the big race which horses
have the best form for the job.
His photographic memory
helps him, too, to carry a “built-
jn” form-guide to a good many
ot ber horses simply by glancing
at t b e b a ck page of his news-
paper for a minute or so each
da y.
Qn one occas i 011} former
Private-secretary EUeen Lenihan,
a real Turf enthusiast> said to
him excitedly at Essendon (it
was about Doomben Cup time):
“ Mr . Menzies, I just saw Ungar
getting aboard a plane for
Queensland ”
D n
with P dead mn face . “ Who
Wlttl dead -P an tace - Who 1S
((Continued on page 31)


You nfiEy 830
a lot of value in
your foodstuffs
It is well established that
ground feed has very much
higher nutritive value than
plain feed, resulting in more
milk, more meat, more wool.
::n
Iff-
SP*
m
ji
iiili
GRIND YOUR
OWN FEED
with a
PULVOMILL
HAMMER TYPE GRINDER
4 Models Available
Models E. & F. for use on the average farm.
Model H. for use on larger farms and in industry.
Model EOS. specially designed for Oyster Shell
Grinding.
GRINDING, MIXING & BAGGING OFF IN
ONE OPERATION
Sole Distributors
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 Young Street, Nr. Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 509 Phone, BU 5095
Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay.
AD 19
A REFINEMENT IN A
GOOD WHISKY IS
BOUQUET
Inhale the bouquet of
McCallum’s. The vapours
are mild but full; truly
indicative of a competently
blended and well matured
Scotch whisky.
r
ii
the
name
-i :■
(D
Coluirn
s
the
whisky
THE SPIRIT OF FRIENDLINESS.
MCl7a/6.2
Wholly
distilled
and blended
in Scotland
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
H-BOMB COMMENT
The fact that most of the fol-
lowing Press comment has prob-
ably been made about other
weapons in other times is as con-
soling as it is frightening—con-
soling because mankind has
always survived ; frightening be-
cause the weapons have generally
been used:
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“This one bomb is supposed to
have developed six to eight times
as much energy as all the high
explosives delivered by the
United States Air Force in
World War 11. The one thing
that can be said with absolute
confidence now' is that when
something as big as this comes
along, men on this earth will
somehow have to get bigger
themselves, or else be over-
whelmed by what they have
created.”
* * *
London “New Statesman”:
“Had it been touched-off any-
where in the centre of Brtain, its
danger-area would have included
the whole of the British Isles,
Belgium and Holland, together
with Northern France and the
north-west fringe of Germany.
A bomb big enough to spread its
destruction over the whole of
Europe is now a near-possibility
—perhaps only a matter of weeks
away.”
♦ * ♦
“Manchester Guardian”: “If
any form of self-defence is
morally justifiable —and the
assumption underlying the whole
rearmament programme is that
it is justified—then there seems
no special ground for excluding
the hydrogen weapon. It is a
horrible weapon, but so on a
smaller scale is a hand-grenade.
“The difference is the
tremendous and unnecessary
scale of destruction. Wide
realisation of the frightful impli-
cations of a hydrogen-bomb
may perhaps improve the chances
of international agreement on the
control of atomic energy. Cer-
tainly we must try—if there is
any sense left in the world—
earnestly to achieve it.”
* * •
“Yorkshire Post”: “Disaster
is certain only if we quail before
the bomb like hypnotised rabbits.
Man must confront his own
invention, and master it. How-
ever much we dislike each other,
the Communist Powers and our-
selves are living in one world,
and that world is threatened with
destruction unless we can find
some way of protecting man
against the force that can
annihilate both Western civilisa-
tion and Communism.”
* * ♦
London “Spectator”: When
Mr. Dulles [U.§. Secretary of
State] assured his questioners in
the United States that the policy
of instant retaliation did not
mean the indiscriminate drop-
ping of atom-bombs he was also
stating what the more respon-
sible observers had already
assumed to be the case. This is
not to say that it is wrong for
the public’s watchdogs to be on
the alert for any sign of the
hasty use, or misuse, of these
terrible weapons. But why is it
that so many of those watchdogs,
in Parliament and in the Press,
always begin by assuming the
worst?
“Is it absolutely essential to
start from the premise that the
present American Administra-
tion is made up of blundering,
trigger-happy morons and that
Sir Winston Churchill and his
colleagues are the kind of people
who cannot be trusted to
maintain reasonable consultation
with the United States Govern-
ment on the most important
subject in the world?”
• * •
London “Daily Express”:
“What chance is there that, if
Churchill stopped the researches
at Monte Bello and Eisenhower
London “Daily Express"
THE HAND OF THE JAILER
called off the explosions at Bikini,
a similar silence would fall over
Siberia? The question answers
itself.
“As for those who cling to
the hope that H-bomb research
is futile, since nobody would
dare to use one in a war, let them
face another question: Would
not Hitler have used it in his
last desperate days?
“The human race is inexorably
committed to exploring a new,
terrible and wonderful region of
knowledge and power. The
prizes are incalculable. The
dangers are many.
“There is only one way to seek
escape from these dangers. Not
in calling off the work of
research, but in pushing on with
the political task of reconciling
the bitter rivalries of the world.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“There is no answer to the
hydrogen - bomb except in
diplomacy.”
• • ♦
London Daily Mail”: “At
the moment the one restraining
factor is fear. If someone drops
a bomb on New York which is
going to hit back at Moscow —
well, that bomb is not dropped.
That we should seek safety
through terror may be a poor
commentary on human nature,
but it does at least afford us a
chance to strive towards better
things.”
* ♦ •
London “News Chronicle”:
“From this complex of fear there
emerge what may be perhaps the
two gravest risks that mankind
has ever had to face. The first is
the simple, physical menace of
the bomb. The second is a more
subtle threat to the healthy mind
of the normal man and woman.
“Helplessness and hopelessness
are apt to spread far further
from the proving-grounds than
any gamma-rays, and in their
different way they can be as
poisonous as radioactivity. It is
the apathy which comes from
despair that could create the
conditions in which atomic war-
fare might become not only
possible but inevitable.
“The time has now come to
say to the Russians, ‘Hie weapons
that could put an end to civilisa-
tion are here at hand. With this
knowledge let Us sit down
together and hammer out the
means whereby we shall make
sure that they are never used.’
“This has been tried before
and failed. But it has never been
tried when the danger was so
great or the penalty for failure so
stark and unmistakable. It is
when the priest comes that men
repent.”
U.S. Recession
Colin Clark, who was
economic adviser to the Queens-
land Government for some years
fyefore he moved to England a
while back, prophesied last year
that the U.S. showed signs of a
developing recession. Economists
and Press in America—and some
in England—contradicted him
with some spirit, or else asserted
that the situation was well in
hand.
Clark returns to this theme in
London “Financial Times,” at a
time when the U.S. is, in the
editorial opinion of that paper,
suffering “a sharp economic set-
back and is in obvious danger
of more severe consequences.”
There are five factors which,
in Clark’s view, lead him to
suppose that “a serious and
dangerous recession is going to
develop [in America] during
1954”:
“First: Money is scarce.
Although there is 190,000
million dollars of it, according
to the latest figure, when gauged
against the size of the labor-
force and the average hourly
wages which have to be paid,
the supply of money is found to
have been declining steadily ever
since 1945 (except for a short
intermission in 1952), and to be
now indeed shorter than at any
other time since 1921, except for
the period 1933-34, when the
whole banking system had col-
lapsed and had to be laboriously
rebuilt, and 1937-38, when the
Administration and the Federal
Reserve Board panicked and
carried out a quite unnecessary
deflation.
“Second: Not only the price,
but also the physical volume of
inventories is now high. In
1949 there was an ‘inventory
shakedown,’ but the whole thing
was on a very moderate scale,
and the ratio of inventories to
sales is a good deal higher now
than it has been at any date
since 1930.
“Inventories in the 1920’s
appear to have been higher, in
relation to sales, than they are
now. But as communications
and merchandising methods
improve we should expect this
relationship to fall —a hundred
years ago, a storekeeper often
had to carry an inventory
equivalent to half a year’s sales.
Merchandising methods con-
tinue to improve and the indi-
cations are that quite a lot of
inventories will have to be
liquidated during the coming
year.
“Third: Liquidating inven-
tories is an unpleasant process
while it lasts, but it is soon
over. But working-off a surplus
of fixed plant and equipment
may take years.


m
M
WM.
%Wsm
TYRES
TRACTORS AND MACHIN
CROPS AND TREES
Takes the hard work out of tyre pumping
and hand greasing . . . Saves enough time to
pay for itself quickly A QUALITY product
with the Mobilco 6 months' guarantee.
MOBILCO
COMBINATION
COMPRESSOR - PUMP
/
make of tractor
Pumping tyres was hard, but not with
the Mobilco Compressor . . . Greasing
implements was hard (and you often
wasted time trying to push grease
through) . . . but not with the Mobilco
Compressor and Grease Gun. They give
you POWER GREASING ... And a
special pump conversion kit gives you a
handy boom or nozzle type water or
chemical spray as well.
And you're buying quality a first class
article, built and finished to perfection
and guaranteed for six months . . .
REMEMBER IT FITS ALL TRACTORS AND
ALL MOBILCO CIRCULAR SAWS.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. TELEGRAMS: "MOB1LCO", SYDNEY.
You will want to know more
about this handiest of farm aids.
Send the coupon now and you
will get a very prompt reply. Just
address it to Mobilco, Mitcham,
Victoria.
POST THIS COUPON
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away, and without
obligation, all details of the MOBILCO
COMPRESSOR/PUMP.
Name..............
Address
“To say that industry is now
overequipped would be going
too far, but at the same time it
is no longer demanding equip-
ment with such keenness, and
any fall in sales would at once
lead to cancellations of orders
for new plant and equipment.
“Fourth: Although the
existence of a huge reservoir of
unfulfilled building - needs
certainly indicates that a depres-
sion as prolonged and severe
as that of the 1930’s is not to, be
expected, there is a lion in the
path high construction-costs.
Relative to the price of other
goods, construction-costs are
now nearly 65 per cent, higher
than they were in 1935.
“Trade-union officials, con-
struction contractors and
municipal authorities are quite
mistaken in thinking that the
purchaser will cheerfully pay.
He prefers to do without. The
average American is now far
worse housed than a man of
similar real income would have
been 30 or 40 years ago, and
every effort is being made to
economise industrial and com-
mercial floor-space, too. Until
these costs fall, we must expect
a rapid and serious decline in the
construction industry, and it will
drag other industries down with
it.
“Fifth: Most serious of all is
the tendency for a downward
movement, once it has acquired
sufficient momentum, to per-
petuate itself by a sort of chain-
reaction.
“The orders of one business
represent the sales of another.
Every business, in writing its
orders, takes into account current
sales, the state of inventories, and
the supply of cash.
“In addition, experience tells
us, they take into account the
trend of sales. If the quantity of
goods being sold is less now than
it was a year ago, the average
business takes this as an indica-
tion that this trend will quite
probably continue; and cuts
back orders a bit further
accordingly.
“This factor could, in some
circumstances, cause a steady
recession to develop into an
uncontrollable chain-reaction.”
Commenting editorially on
Clark’s opinions, the “Financial
Times” adds:
“Whether the depression will
follow the course Mr. Clark
fears will depend very largely on
the policies of the U.S. Govern-
ment. Here the optimism of
the President can only be a
cause for anxiety.
“An Administration is more
likely to act effectively against a
depression if it is willing to
admit that one exists. Only this
week the President. said that
‘economic conditions do not call
for an emergency programme
that would justify larger Federal
deficits and further inflation,’ ”
German Tax-cuts
The cuts in German taxation
amounting to nearly £2OO million
a year produced varied reactions
in Britain, including enthusiastic
advice to the British Government
to copy the German example.
Summarising, London “Econo-
mist” noted that the “cuts and
the removal of some of the
special concessions are well
designed to promote efficiency
and to revive the market for
industrial capital with the aim
of reducing production-costs.
High interest-rates on borrowed
money and lack of risk-capital
from the public at home and
abroad have proved a handicap
which the Germans are deter-
mined to overcome. The pro-
posals should help, as the main
tax-cuts will leave the Germans
£195 million more to invest —or
to spend—every year.
“Compared with 1951 (that is
to say, including the minor cuts
made last year) the reductions in
income tax for a married man
with one child range from an
average of 23-30 per cent, for
most grades to 61.5 per cent, for
the lowest income-group. Fol-
lowing Christian - Democrat
policy, the biggest incentives are
given to large families and to the
medium and small private-busi-
nessman. The highest rate that
a man will pay is to be 55 per
cent, of his income, and that only
on incomes over £50,000 a year.
The inheritance tax has also been
drastically reduced,
“German company directors
have hitherto planned largely
with an eye to avoiding taxation.
Now it is hoped that economic
principles will guide industrial-
ists, and that tax-arrears will be
collected. These hopes may be
justified. The German Finance
Minister has reduced corporation
tax to 45 per cent., and retained
last year’s concession whereby
profits distributed in dividends
are only taxed at the rate of 30
per cent.”
Typical of the “please-copy”
opinion, London “Daily Ex-
press” pointed out that, “as Ger-
man taxes go down German
production goes up. Exports
soar. In the markets of the
world German products under-
cut those from Britain. And the
new tax-cuts cannot fail to stimu-
late that process.”
To meet that threat the same
newspaper recommended that
British Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer R, A. Butler should
“answer boldly by cutting taxes
in his April Budget,” advice the
Chancellor declined, for reasons
largely covered in London “Daily
Mail” comment:
“Some people are urging Mr.
Butler to emulate the Germans.
How can he? To begin with he
has to find £lOOO million for the
Welfare State and £l6OO million
for defence.
“The Germans have no Wel-
fare State and no defence. They
have to pay Occupation costs —
a burden, say their apologists,
which is one-third of their Bud-
get. But armaments are about
40 per cent, of Britain’s
Budget. The Chancellor has
to provide £615 million
for interest on debts —mostly
incurred by the two German
wars. The Germans do not pay
for the first one now. They got
out of that when they were
cleverly ruined by inflation in the
1920’5.”
Between those two extremes
rests the kind of thoughtful con-
sideration accorded the subject
by London “Financial Times”
and London “Observer.” The
latter, noting that the many dif-
ferences in budgetary and tax
systems between Britain and
West Germany make compari-
sons dangerous, goes on to re-
mark :
“A basic difference in econo-
mic philosophy, however, re-
mains. The present West Ger-
man economy is still funda-
mentally a carrot-and-stick
economy, which quite deliber-
ately maintains the classical
economic incentives and penal-
ties and the large differences
between rich and poor which
used to be characteristic of our
[Britain’s] economy, too.
“We have, equally deliberately,
more and more reduced these
incentives, penalties and differ-
ences over the last 50 years,
and have accepted some risks in
economic buoyancy and flexibil-
ity for the sake of greater social
and political homogeneity and
stability.
“A balance has always to be
struck between what is economic-
ally and what is socially best,
and the British have found this
balance at a somewhat different
point from the Germans. Taking
British and German national
over-all experience over the last
50 years together, we have, so
far, no reason to feel that we
have been wrong.”
London “Financial Times”
commented that “there is
a general point in which
this German reform runs parallel
to the reform being worked out
by the Eisenhower Administra-
tion in America”;
“The Germans have a
special problem in wanting
to create a capital market.
They are prepared, therefore, to
give some incentives towards the
distribution of profits. But, by
and large, it is clear that, like
the American Government, the
German Government is anxious
to take such risks as it thinks
possible for the sake of increas-
ing the level of business savings
and of industrial investment.
“The creation of savings is not
the same thing as the stimula-
tion of investment. But to stimu-
late investment without provid-
ing the necessary savings will
only result in inflation.
“The lesson which can be
drawn from both German and
American Budget developments
is that if this country [Britain]
is not to fall behind in the race
for efficiency, a corresponding
stimulus to both savings and in-
vestment must be provided here.
What should be giving anxiety is
that two of the other great in-
dustrial nations seem to be more
alive than ourselves to the need
for a stimulus tq further capital
investment.”
U.S.-Pakistan
Under the a srt*tnent between
the two countries American arms
wiU shortly be going to Pakistan.
Waitta S •» receive 8 them, there
js _ according t 0 .. us . Ne ws and
World Report ’” “ a voluntcer
force of 250 ’ 000 Professional
soldiers drawn from among the
best fighters of a warrior-people.
And milliom more in this anti ‘
Communist nation of 76 million
people want to be soldiers.
“The dollar-cost to America
will be low at the start—perhaps
25 million dollars this year.” In
return the U.S. gets a
strategically-placed ally of con-
siderable fighting quality.
“ITie Pakistan Army is strictly
a volunteer force. There are no
conscripts. There is no law
requiring military service for
Pakistan’s citizens. No such law
i* necessary. Pakistan can pick
and choose more than enough
men for any force that Pakistan
can arm, even with U.S. military
from among the volunteers,
It is an Army ‘by invitation’
drawn from professional fighters,
“The core of West Pakistan is
the Punjab. With the territories
and the tribal areas on its moun-
tain borders, the Punjab contains
a population of more than 20
million, a tough, lean, durable,
tall people. They supply most of
the volunteers for Pakistan’s
armed forces.
“These same warrior-people
contributed more than 70 per
cent, of the fighting men in the
British Indian Army. Like
almost all Pakistanis, they are
Moslems. Their religion gives
them none of the pacifism and
non-resistance philosophy that
makes Nehru-type ‘neutralisin'
palatable to many Hindu Indians.
“Pakistan is the ‘lid’ of the
Indian subcontinent. The only
routes by which Russia could
move major [land] forces into
India are through the Khyber
Pass and through Quetta in
Pakistan, Communist China is
kept out of Pakistan and India
by the world’s highest moun-
tains, the Himalayas, sprawled
over a vast area.
“The major, calculated risk
involved in the U.S. move to
arm Pakistan is its effect on
India. Indian Communists are
profiting as Nehru denounces the
U.S. for aiding India’s rival.
The Pakistanis, too, readily
admit that they are eager to
match India’s military strength,
drawn from 350 million people,
with U.S. military aid, but insist
that their concern is defensive,
not aggressive.
“Both the U.S. and Pakistan
are making reservations in the
alliance. Pakistan is not grant-
ing the U.S. bases in Pakistan,
and the U.S. is making continued
arms-aid dependent on Pakistan’s
future attitude toward India.
“The U.S. decision to take
Pakistan as an ally already is
paying-off in other fields.
Pakistan has signed an alliance
with Turkey, and Syria, Iran and
and Irak are interested in join-
ing it. A major gap in world-
defences against Russia is closing,
and the long-term hope of U.S.
diplomats is that India,
eventually, may take her part m
world defence plans, too.”
Dragnet Digest
France an( } lndo-Chim.—K
French view as put by the con-
servative “L’Aurore”: “France
for seven years has been ru i n i ng
herself for the sake of Vietnam.
France has military obligations
elsewhere France cannot
indefinitely carry alone the
crush ing burden of the defence
of In do-China. The defence of
Indo . China is a ma tter that
concerns Anglo-Saxons far more
tbaQ us >»
* * *
„ „ n . , ~
E.D.C.—Belgium s ratification
Eurooean Defence Com-
or m f European Lierence tom
mumty makes it three in
(Holland, West Germany and
Belgium) and three to come-
Luxembourg (“virtually certain,”
accord ; ne to “New York
according 10 r-sew ions.
>• , Ital y «•“ Prel " ler ! s
‘pledged to press for early rati-
fication ), and France. Belgium,
which suffered no less than
»t the hands of a
militaristic Germany, is to be
congratulated on recognising the
vast changes m the international
scene and accepting a histone
necessiy that promises a safer
future -
British Diplomacy. Corn-
menting on what he describes as
“a gradual recovery of British
initiative in international fields,”
“New York Times” corres-
pondent Drew Middleton puts
it down to “certain changes in
Britain’s position in the last three
years”—a steady economic
improvement, together with a
drive to expand present markets;
and “the political stability based
on the belief that, under either
the Conservatives or the official
Labor party, Britain’s world
outlook and its impressive
defence commitments would be
much the same.”


figures show that leap ini this year will need
Don't let tills happen to YOU-fill up regularly with
RUST-PROOF PETROL
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF JSJfiW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ISSAM SANKARY late of 186 Coogee
Bay Road Coogee. —TAKE NOTICE that
GIOVANNI EDOARDO BIANCO has filed
a Petition No. 303 of 1954 for divorce
from MITELDE TERESA BIANCO on
the grounds of her adultery with you
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 18th day of June 1954 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without chwge from
MERVYN FINLAY & COMPANY. Solici-
tors, Newlands House, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Federal Jurisdiction.
TO JACK ALLAN BOLTON late of
Buchan Street Cairns mthe State o
Queensland. TAKE a
THELMA MAUD BOLTON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4131 P*™' iL rs
the ground of desertion for three
under Queensland law If g
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court M g
Street Sydney by the 23rd Jme 1954 ana
obtain a copy of Ibe Petition
charge from J. BRUCE CBRG
Solicitor, of 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Karendi, brilliant winner of
the AJ.C. Doncaster Handicap,
is a handsome individual and has
shown marked consistency, bill
the majority of Rand wick race-
goers were dubious about his get-
ting the mile, otherwise he would
have started at shorter odds than
9 to 1. When betting opened on
the course he was quoted at 12
to 1, but after a wager of £lO,OOO
to £BOO had been laid the lead
was followed and the price
shrank.
Karendi hasn’t been out of a
place at his last seven starts,
which included four wins—three
at six furlongs and one at a
mile. In the Doncaster he easily
defeated outsider Triclinium and
favorite Carioca.
« » * •
No excuse could be forwarded
for the defeat of Australian mile-
record holder Silver Phantom, a
stablemate of the winner, and
while Carioca ran a grand race
he never looked a danger. The
track seemed a bit on the damp
side, due to watering the day
before the big event, and that
mightn’t have helped Carioca,
with his 9.7. However, it wasn’t
advanced as a reason for defeat.
Maybe Carioca isn’t as good as
last year.
Karendi had hardly cooled off
after winning the Doncaster
before the stable was giving
thought to his next important
engagement, which is likely to be
the Caulfield Cup. The former
sprinter—ho still has to win
beyond a mile —will be set his
toughest task if trained for that
race. In its long history only one
winner of the Randwick mile has
won the Caulfield Cup in the
same year. That was Grey Boots
in 1950. In the mid-’nineties
Cremorne and Paris won both
events, but neither won both in
the same year. More recently
Beaulivre, second in 1940 Don-
caster to Mildura, landed the
Caulfield Cup a few months
later, while Buzalong, third in
the 1938 Randwick Easter mile,
won the Cup in the same year.
Karendi’s sire, Wayside Inn
(imp.), won at 1| mile in England
and is a son of a noted stayer.
Fairway, while his dam. Belle
Fille, is by Beau Pere (imp.), a
sire of stayers. Alec Higgins, of
Piercefield Stud, Muswellbrook
(N.S.W.), bred Karendi.
Hoping for keener competition
and better racing, the AJ.C. this
autumn shortened the distances
of weight-for-age events at
Randwick programmed for the
stayers. The Autumn Stakes, run
on the opening day, was reduced
from 1| mile 1° H mile, the
Cumberland Stakes (third day)
from li mile to I! mile, and the
A.J.C. Plate (final day) from
2\ miles to 2 miles.
In earlier years, when the
A.J.C. Plate was decided at three
miles, jockeys took things so
leisurely that some patrons went
to the bar instead of watching the
snail-like race with a final brush
over the last three furlongs or so.
They still had time to see the
finish. In 1922 the Plate was cut
to 2i miles, and later still a, time-
limit was attached to the condi-
tions ; this still stands, with
prizemoney considerably reduced
if slower time is run.
Last season Jan ran the 2\
miles of the Plate in record time,
3 min. 48sec. She eliminated
Phar Lap’s name from the list
of Randwick time-holders. That
great winner of £66,738 in stakes
doesn’t now hold any race record
—so much for the time-factor in
important handicaps and weight-
for-age contests! The name of
every Australian stayer of note
appears in the list of winners of
the A.J.C. Plate.
The Autumn Stakes, run on
Saturday, was easily won by
Euphrates from Gold Scheme
and Tarien and provided keen
wagering. It was an interesting
contest for the public.
Last autumn odds-on Over-
sight was beaten by Red Jester
and Bob Cherry in the All-Aged
Stakes on the third day (Wed-
nesday) of the A.J.C. autumn
carnival, but even-money Jan
pulled supporters through in the
Cumberland Stakes, and on the
final day she won the A.J.C.
Plate at 6 to 4 on, beating three
moderates. The All-Aged Stakes
has been a race for champion
milers of Australia. Since Molli-
son’s year (1929), winners have
included Amounis, Winooka,
Chatham, Peter Pan, Ajax (three
times), Yaralla (twice), Katanga,
Victory Lad, Murray Stream and
San Domenico.
There couldn’t have beer* a
much weaker field of three-year-
olds than that in the A.J.C. St.
Leger, but time for the race,
3min. Usee., was reasonably
good for the mile and three-
quarters. Last year Sea
Sovereign’s equalled the
race record made by Lucrative
in 1941. Sea Sovereign seemed
only a moderate until he won the
St. Leger and later went to Bris-
bane to win the Q.T.C. St. Leger.
Now Monarch, winner of the
A.J.C. St. Leger, is to be set for
the Queensland St. Leger, to be
run in June.
• • • •
Monarch’s task at Randwick
was made easier when N. Sell-
wood, on hot favorite Royal
Forest, got into a pocket at a
vital stage of the race. Race-
goers don’t expect crack horse-
men to allow such a happening
in a classic event, especially in a
small field.
Track gallops in the early
morning are an important fac-
tor and mostly a guide to
trainers, but it doesn’t neces-
sarily follow that the swallow-
catcher of the dawn is the fastest
galloper when the race colors
are produced in the afternoon.
On the other hand, some win-
ners are real duds in an early-
morning test. For instance,
Edelweiss, winner of the A.J.C.'
Princess Handicap and trained
at Rosebery by Harry Horton,
has not been known to show
her paces on the training track.
In fact, it would be a bit un-
usual for her to down an oppon-
ent single-handed. However,
she won the Princess Handicap
with a sustained run from the
“ That's from the spoilt kid next-door."
home turn, getting up just in
time to beat the pacemaker, Hos-
pitality. Edelweiss is now ex-
pected to make it interesting for
opponents in the Adrian Knox
Stakes, in which she will be rid-
den by N. Sellwood. He was
engaged soon after Saturday’s
race was won. A. Clarke, a light
apprentice in Fred Hood’s Rose-
bery stable, won on the filly on
Saturday, his first city success.
• • • •
Randwick’s yearling sales will
be continued tomorrow (Thurs-
day) and on Friday, and will
conclude on Tuesday next. Many
sons and daughters of new sires
will come under the hammer
and the offerings will include
close relatives of class winners.
Early on Thursday the first pro-
geny of the Big Game sire
Tembu (imp.) and of Murren
(imp.) by Mieuxce, will be
offered by Kooba Stud. Several
Nilo (imp.) colts will be paraded.
Woodlands stud will submit a
number of colts and fillies by
Charleval (imp.).
Sydney-owned Persian Link
quickly won a race on being
taken to Brisbane. Now trained
in the northern capital, he had an
easy task in the Pinkenba Trial
at Eagle Farm on Easter Satur-
day. Leading Brisbane horse-
man N. Best rode the grey, who
carried 9st. For a time Persian
Link was regarded as a sound
Doncaster prospect, but he
didn’t maintain winning form
and after his defeat at Warwick
Farm by Grand Vite it was de-
cided his Doncaster hopes had
vanished.
. • • •
New Zealand has a smart win-
ning filly in Surprise Ending,
who started hot favorite and
won the Great Northern Oaks
Stakes, H mile, at Ellerslie last
Saturday. It was her fourth suc-
cessive victory, and her backers
received a tote win-return of less
than even money. The con-
sistent filly was bred by K. G.
Poulgrain and Son, of Gisborne,
and is a daughter of Revelation
(imp.) and Biddy Machree by
Oration from Biddy Comet by
Day Comet (imp.). Family lines
include Nightmarch, Silver Ring
and High Caste. Melbourne
buyer M. Marshall purchased
her half-brother by Amber
(imp.) at the New Zealand sales
in January last for 320gns.
* * *
Sydney Rugby Union games
last Saturday: Gordon 16,
Rand wick 6; St. George 17,
Manly 11 ; University 22,
Norths 6; Drummoyne 9,
Parramatta 3; Eastwood 25,
Easts 18.
The Randwick-Gordon game
and the St. George-Manly one
were the most interesting from
the competition angle. Uni-
versity is leading, with six points,
and looks as though it will hold
the lead. The team that beat
Easts in the grand-final last year
was one of the “best-evers,” and
the club’s formidable contingent
of Wallabies was missing. Now
University’s chief trouble seems
to be an embarrassment of
stars. But the win against
Norths was a foregone conclu-
sion.
Things have changed sadly
for Easts, last year’s leaders, now
at the bottom of the table with
Parramatta. Wallaby five-
eighth Murray Tate, who hasn’t
played this season, was back at
training the other night. But
one man won’t make that much
difference. On East’s side, Satur-
day’s game was chiefly remark-
able for the fact that skipper
Jack Carroll was sent off; sur-
prising, since he is a mild chap.
An eyewitness claims he fell
into the historic role of peace-
maker, which is likely enough,
and no reflection on the referee,
who can’t see everything. But
it was a fair summary of the
game.
The Randwick-Gordon clash,
on the other hand, was marred
by too much rough stuff; a pity
for spectators, who, unlike the
crowds at some other codes, pre-
fer first-class football to fourth-
class fights, and doubly unfor-
tunate because there was bright
football mixed with it. It’s only
a few years since referee Don
Furness was playing in a posi-
tion wjiere knocks are received
with a sort of grim nonchal-
ance ; and he seems inclined to
leniency now. Randwick full-
back Ray Millington, centre John
Cusack and —of course —Nick,
Shehadie were outstanding for
the losers. Bob Davidson led
Gordon forwards splendidly.
Jim Phipps was the outstanding
back for Gordon. Gordon back-
line is a bit ragged yet, but looks
as if it will develop into some-
thing spectacular.
St. George was down 8-3 at
half-time, but put more fight
into the second half. With 12
minutes to go, Eddie Stapleton
kicked a difficult penalty-goal,
from 55yds.
• • a •
The Fijian team has been
announced, and, according to
reports, will be stronger than
the 1952 tourists; if true it will
be a very good thing for Aus-
tralian Rugby Union. Quite a
few of the old team are in, in-
cluding spectacular winger Jo
Levula. Orisi Dawai, a winger
of the same type, variously re-
ported as Jo’s nephew and/or
cousin, will be seen here for the
first time. Captain will be
Apakuki Tuitavua, who made a
good job of it last time.
* * ♦
What looks like another
bumper V.F.L. season began
last weekend. Three matches
were played on Saturday, and
the other three on Monday. In
the Saturday games, Geelong,
roused after their bad slump at
the end of last year, showed Fitz-
roy no mercy, 19.16 (130)-7.16
(58); St. Kilda, 9.10 (64), sur-
prisingly defeated Footscray,
7.11 (53); and, in a yet-closer
game, South Melbourne, 11.18
(84), beat Carlton 11.13 (79),
after being down 12 points at
three-quarter time.
“Roscoe”: Geelong wants the
bounce of the ball in the centre
of the ground to be done by a
boundary-umpire —not, as has
been the custom from the begin-
nings of the game, by the field-
umpire. This would enable the
field-umpire to keep a more
watchful eye on things; a lot of
unnecessary rough-stuff occurs
when he’s occupied with the
bouncing. It was also suggested
that, if necessary, two extra
boundary-umpires could be
appointed. A V.F.L. committee
considered the matter, but the
central-ump. was still bouncing
’em in the opening round.
* ♦ ♦
Japan has proved itself the No.
1 table-tennis nation by winning
both the men’s and women’s
teams-events for the world’s
titles at Wembley (Eng.). The
Japs used sponge-rubber bats,
which helped to disconcert their
opponents. Australia was repre-
sented for the first time at such
a world’s championship. The
three Australians, all from Syd-
ney—Laza (also a grade
cricketer), Hodge and Jennings
—decided to go under their own
steam, but before they left were
given official backing.
Not Australia’s best possible
team, they had no chance of win-
ning the title, but did reasonably
well, and the experience they
gained should help the game
here. They were coached by
acknowledged master Victor
Barna. Australia will probably
in future send a team every year.


this
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cl high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion ol their cost. The
■■National" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
BmiU entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
■ ■ Borman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
pprth lDE ’• r. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
rhKIU .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aiut-)
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Between
Ourselves
i
Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing— see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWYN NOEL TWADDELL late of
French’s Forest Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE
that ALATHEA ISABEL TWADDELL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4822
of 1953 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
(3) years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 21st day of
June 1954 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from HAROLD
RICH, Solicitor, 188 George Street, Syd-
ney, New South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO SAMUEL NEVILLE WAYMAN late
of 28 Fricourt Avenue, Earlwood. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET WAYMAN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4840 of
1953 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 11th June 1954 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
ABRAHAM GEORGE BRINDLEY. Solici-
tor, of 195 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Public Notices
I, ZBIGNIEW NOWIOKI, of Polish
nationality, born at Warsaw, Poland,
resident 5 years in Australia, now resid-
ing at No. 11 Darnley Street, Gordon,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
I. KRZYZANOWSKI, VICTOR W., of
Polish nationality, born at Lodz, Poland,
resident in Australia for 4J years, now
residing at Ingleburn, Sydney, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948-
relief from
7^
is SOMETHING
i«UT OF THE BOX
It is the only treatment of its
kind available in Australia—the
only treatment containing COL-
CHICUM, SUIACOL and
APIUM in a formula prepared
specifically to counteract the
cause of these complaints.
For mild attacks, one small
bottle is usually complete treat-
ment. For more acute cases,
the larger size is recommended.
Results are sensaUonall
ALL CHEMISTS
SMALL, 17/6 LARGE, 30A
Or by mall from Rickard Medi-
cal Products Pty. Ltd., 21 Oxford
Street, Sydney.
got to get my teeth into this
Mitchell bird.
“Look,” I says, “how about
you, Mr. Mellish? Do you know
this Mitchell?”
“No.”
I swing round to the copper-
top.
“You?”
“No. Really, I don’t.”
“All right. You don’t know
him. I don’t know him. We
don’t know him. But, by hell,
he knows about us, don’t he!
He reckons he knows something
about Carson. He could be a
crank or a joker. Or a detective
or just some clever gink getting
ready to pull a swiftie. Only it
don’t make sense. You think all
round this Mitchell bird and you
got no sense. All you got is him
on the plane and fading when it
gets in and then calling me out
of bed and then calling you.
That’s all we got.”
“Yes,” Mr. Mellish says.
“That’s all we have.” His voice
is kind of soft and far away, and
he’s got a look on his face keeps
me quiet.
“Yes,” he says, again. “That’s
all we have.”
He repeats himself means he’s
got something else, too. So I
wait. I catch Joyce Martin’s
eyes and all she’s got is a nervous
little smile. Means she’s waiting,
too.
So we wait.
Presently Mellish gives himself
a shake, like an old rooster
ruffling his feathers. Then he
puts his eyes on me and some-
thing in them keeps me quiet.
“What sort of a young man are
you, Mr. Delaney?” he asks.
“Who wants to know?”
“Perhaps the late Mr.
Carson! ”
“He knew me good enough
to”
“That’s not what we mean.
Perhaps the late Mr. Carson has
still got a job for you, Mr,
Delaney,”
“Doing what?’ r
“Helping us find out if it was
an accident!”
“Aw, you don’t want to fall
for this Mitchell. He’s”
Mitchell, and what you’ve
just told us, set us thinking. It
set us thinking, Mr. Delaney,
particularly about the—er—
accident. It set us thinking very
deeply about it. And it seems
to us there are two things wrong
about that accident.”
He gets out the cigarettes and
hands them round again and we
light up.
“The first thing wrong,” he
says, “is how the deuce the late
Mr. Carson managed to get his
head down on the concrete—it’s
a concrete road out there—so
the wheel-hub would fall on it.”
“Come off it,” I says. “Man
could fall. He’s hunkered down,
see? Manhandling the wheel or
something. Falls over, slips,
anything. Maybe he knocked the
jack the car’s resting on and
that done it.”
“Maybe. The second thing
wrong is that the late Mr.
Carson had his coat on.”
“Had his coat on?”
“Yes. It’s hot weather and he
had a dirty and rather laborious
job to do. Why didn’t he take his
coat off?”
I think that over. Maybe it’s
a point, I don’t know. Maybe
Carson didn’t think to take his
coat off. Maybe A queer
kind of feeling comes over me,
and I get up and walk over to
the window and stand there and
look down into the street.
Nothing in the street except cars
and trucks and people. Nothing
about Carson and his coat. Just
this queer feeling and a kind of
something telling me to get rignt
out of there and go to the hotel
and get my bag and keep on
going. Because this business is
getting damn’ silly and tangled
and this lawyer man piling up
what could be trouble and telling
me.
So he’s telling me.
Because
“ because of Mitchell, you
see, Mr. Delaney. By themselves
those two things we mentioned
might not mean anything. But
put them with what Mitchell said
to you and we think you’ll see it
looks strange, to say the least
of it.”
I turn round.
“That’s right,” I says. “It
looks strange. But don’t tell me,
tell the cops. It’s their job, not
mine,”
“Mr. Delaney, you tried telling
the—er—cops.”
I still got this queer feeling.
“That’s right,” I says. “I
tried telling ’em.’
He’s got a pen in his hands
and turning it round and round.
Joyce Martin sits there, looking
at me, looking at him.
The telephone rings. No kid-
ding, I reckon I jump two feet.
Mellish picks it up. He listens.
All he says is “Yes,” “Very
well” and “I’ll tell him.” Then
he listens some more, says,
“Thank-you” and puts the phone
down. Then he looks at me.
“That,” he says, “was a person
calling himself Lay Down Misere
Mitchell. He asked me to tell
you that the late Mr. Carson was
certainly dead before the wheel
hub fell on him and that he can
prove it. But he says there is
more in it than that and asked
me to persuade you to stay in
Murrayford! ”
4. Jardine Again
IA7E look at each other. I don’t
* ’ know what the lawyer is
thinking or what Joyce Martin
is thinking. But I know what
Delaney is thinking.
My oath, I know it. There’s a
great big blue stew somewhere
and I can be in it. Right in it,
up to my neck. And what I aim
to do is watch my neck.
Because I’m not on my own in
this game. I don’t know what
the game is, but I know I’m not
on my own. I come to this dump
to do a job for Carson and get
some dough quick and get out
again. I got no ambitions to
settle down here. But Mitchell
takes me for a rum on the way,
Carson’s dead before I can
contact him though he don’t
want me to contact him openly,
the Jardine cop got a down on
me because I tell him what this
Mitchell tells me about it being
no accident, and now Mitchell
comes in again, and here’s this
lawyer who sights two wrong
peas in the stew and got notions
about me helping to get ’em out.
So there’s no dice. Because in .
about two minutes Delaney is
going right out of here and right
out of Murrayford. It’s their
stew, and I got this queer feeling,
and they can have it.
“Don’t start persuading,” I
tell him. I grab my hat and
shove it on and make for the
door.
“So long,” X tell them. “Been
nice knowing you. Any letters
come for me, send ’em to
Mitchell.”
Mellish don’t move. The red-
head sort of half rises from her
chair, then sits again and looks
at the floor.
Way I see it Carson is an
accident or he isn’t. If he is it’s
none of my business, because
they got coroners and things fix
all that up. If he isn’t it still isn’t
my business, because they got
cops and things fix all that up.
So it’s none of my business,
either way, and there’s no dice.
Less I see of cops better I’m
pleased, and no cops will get
pleased with me if I come butting
in on their business.
So I get out of that lawyer’s
office fast, and about the first
thing hits me when I hit the street
is I’m hungry. My wrist-watch
says it isn’t quite noon, but it’s
near enough for me and I locate
a caf 6 and spend most of an
hour stoking.
There’s a travel-agency a
couple of doors along from the
cafe and I go in and look things
over. There’s a plane east at
4.16 p.m. which will cost me four
frogskins, or I can get a fast
train at 6 p.m. which will cost
me three anti a half. Or I can
get my bag and amble out the
highway and thumb a lift for
nothing. It’s a hot day and I’m
full of food and feeling sticky and
sleepy, so I leave it and make for
the Crown. Because a cold
shower will do me good, and dry
underwear and maybe a cool-
off in the room with the blinds
down while I work out about
the plane and the train and the
thumb.
I take the steps slow and along
the passage to room 10 and push
the door open. My bag is open
on the bed and things scattered
about and a chunky man with his
back to me and his hands in the
bag.
In the commandos they teach
you to get close, fast.
So I’m close in two strides and
up against his back.
He starts to turn and I give
him a rabbit-killer in back of his
neck with the edge of my right
hand, hard. He goes forward on
the bed, but he isn’t right out
and lashes back with a boot and
cracks me under my right knee.
I nearly go down, but I got
enough left to jump him on the
bed and put my left arm round
his throat and down over his
shoulder and use my right to
grab his right hand and bring it
up behind his shoulders where
my left hand can grab it. So
my left grabs it and jerks. He's
coming out of the rabbit-killer
and when he gets the jerk he lets
out a whispering scream.
“You get a broken arm,” I
tell him, “it stops you cock-
roaching for peanuts in cheap
pubs.”
I could break his arm if I
want, but it don’t get me nothing,
so I shove him over and let go.
The face got no red streaks in
it now. It’s dead white and the
eyes sticking out with the pain.
But I know it and maybe I
ought to broke the arm before I
knew who it was.
Because it’s old pal Jardine.
(To be continued next week)
Ungar, Lennie? Some visiting
violinist?”
“Lennie” no doubt gave him
the explosive reaction he had
played for!
Despite a persistent belief that
he is a man of wealth, if Menzies
were defeated at the next election
he would have to go on working
to keep himself and his family.
Of course, if he and Dr, Evatt
were to return to the Bar they
could probably each earn from
£15,000 to £20,000 a year.
As it is, the Prime Minister’s
total salary and allowance have
only in the past two years been
increased from £4900 to £9650.
Out of this total, he must pay
for the upkeep of the Lodge,
and meet all the many official
entertainment commitments of a
Prime Minister, especially one on
the non-Labor side of politics.
Entertainment alone costs him
thousands of pounds a year.
Menzies doesn’t worry about
this. He has never been inter-
ested in the mere accumulation
of money.
But he began to take his own
finances more seriously late in
1951 when his brother Frank,
who looks after his private affairs
for him, visited Canberra and
showed him that he was spend-
ing on the upkeep of the Lodge
at least £lOOO a year more than
he was receiving in income for
the purpose.
It wasn’t the first time that
Menzies had had to dip into such
savings as remained from his
years at the Bar. And it may
or may not be coincidence that
shortly afterwards he withdrew
his hitherto strong opposition to
any revision of Parliamentary
salaries and assented to the
appointment of the Nicholas
Tribunal to investigate the sub-
ject.
He retained, however, a
withering contempt for several
members of Parliament who
were agitating with what he
thought was indecent emphasis
for higher salaries.
“You know,” he remarked
after an interview with one of
them, “I don’t like people who
are hungry!”
To at least one of these mem-
bers he was being unjust. For
this man’s domestic obligations
and pre-Parliamentary standard
of living were such that at the
level of his salary as a member
before the Nicholas report was
approved he was drawing on
capital at a rate which would
have dried-up his assets alto-
gether within five or six years.
Menzies’s view, however, was,
and is, that if a man intends to
give real public service he should
be prepared to suffer financial
loss in the process. This view
is vehemently contested by most
members of Parliament and
thousands of electors will no
doubt agree with them.
The late Melbourne barrister
Mr. Harry Minogue told a close
friend of the Prime Minister in
1940 that up till that time alone
Menzies had probably sacrificed
professional fees totalling
£40,000 by his full-time entry
into politics.
That estimate did not take
account of an offer which
Menzies received in 1935 to
move to London and practise at
the British Bar. The senior
partner of one of London’s old-
est legal firms heard Menzies
speak there during the latter’s
first visit to Britain. The Lon-
don man approached him pri-
vately some days later and
asked:
“Have you ever thought of
practising in this country?”
“Good heavens,” replied Men-
zies, “I’m too old now to begin
all over again.”
He was then 40.
“Well,” replied the other,
“you know your own circum-
stances best; and I, of course,
am not aware of what you would
regard in Australia as an ade-
quate income. But I am author-
ised to tell you that if ever you
should consider such a move
seriously, my firm would be
willing to guarantee you work
which would bring you at least
£5OOO a year.”
That, remember, was in 1935,
at a time when you could own a
mansion in the country and run
a flat in London on half that
income.
Menzies believes talk of class-
distinction in Australia to-day is
nonsense.
He recognises only two classes
—the one containing “the active,
the thrifty and the intelligent” ;
the other, “the lazy, the dull and
the improvident.”
The four main arguments of
those trying to foster class-
distinctions and Menzies’s
answers to them are:
Rich versus p00r.... Most
people in Australia are neither
rich nor poor, but live modestly
and work hard.
Employee versus employer
Employees benefit from a
stable, expanding industry, and
it is in an employer’s best inter-
ests to have satisfied employees.
Educated versus uneducated
Some of the wisest men he
has met have had very little for-
mal education, whilst some
people with university degrees
have very little real knowledge.
Farm versus factory Pri-
mary and secondary industry
need each other, and Australia
„wants both to be strong.
[the end]


BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINE
MOST EFFICIENT
WORM DRENCH
INFESTATION OF YOUR SHEEP WITH EVEN SMALL
NUMBERS OF PARASITES CAN REDUCE THEIR
APPETITE BY 50% AND CAUSE LOSS OF WOOL
PRODUCTION AND GROWTH.
WORMY SHEEP
HEALTHY SHEEP
Eats 5 lbs.
Grass daily.
.A
/jii'J/lfHlji '/Hi I*l l
r —it
Don’t let worms starve your sheep. Obtain your
highest return from worm free sheep.
Drench with ‘PHENOVIS’.
One of a series of advertisements designed to convey as a
simple story the results of many years of research. Acknowledg-
ment is made to many research workers whose results have been
published in the Australian Veterinary Journal and elsewhere.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
c
-PHE. 16X.4J1
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75 ,
Weight
Sfllbs,
-
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
THE "FARMERS' BOY"
Is the best all-round purpose
unit for all properties needing
a light tractor to plough, culti-
vate, hoe, cut long and short
grass and provide power and
light.
Standard Machine,
£126/16/6
F.O.R. Capital Cities
Apply for further particulars and
demonstration to your State
Distributor.
Queensland; BUZACOTTS (Qld.).
LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
K. S. Wales: GRAZCOS CO-
OPERATIVE, LTD., 46 Young St.,
Sydney.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OPERA-
TIVE, LTD., 90 William St., Mel-
bourne.
Sole Australian Agents: HUBERT
STOKES & CO., 74 Oastlereagh St.,
SYDNEY,
FOR SALE
“Aston” Oil Cooled Arc Welders for
general farm use, suitable 415 volt.,
50 cycle supply. Write
ASTON EIiECTBICAI, PRODUCTS,
Pty. Btd.,
113 Palmer Street, Bast Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
BEEF-CATTLE AT SYDNEY ROYAL
Herefords
After its win with the steer
Turee Goldfinder (later sold at a
fancy price) Turee Station went
on to collect a couple of reserves
in the championship class: for
bulls, with Turee Fame (which
baat W. Mcllrath’s Windsor
Royal Leader for first place in
the two-years and under-three-
years class, another bull from the
same address, Turee Edition,
coming third); for cows and
heifers, with Turee Miss Minerva
Sixth (this young lady also won
the junior championship).
As mentioned here last week,
D. A. Prarten, of Turee Station
(N.S.W.), been collaborating
with C.S.LRaO.’s Dr. Franklin in
feeding-tests for show-cattle.
And the eating of this particular
pudding, if not conclusive, seems,
on present taste, eminently satis-
factory. Last year the Hereford
section—in top competition, any-
way—was dominated by two
names: Windsor and Golf Hill.
But Turee Democrat (second
under 21 months, 1952 Sydney
Show) and Bounds Quest (imp.
in utero), junior reserve champion
in the 1950 exhibition, were
earlier indications of what good
feeding can do backed by good
breeding.
Not that any of the cattle
exhibited at leading shows exactly
rough it; but the success of the
Turee cattle this year seems
worthy of comment. For the
most-successful-exhibitor prize
Turee Station was pipped (by
one point) by W. Mcllrath, of
Windsor Stud (N.S.W.); who, of
course, is no stranger to success
in the show-ring.
The Herefords, all round, were
impressive. Victorian breeder
J. R. Allen, of South Boorook,
Mortlake, took the championship
(and the Golf Hill trophy) with
South Boorook Brimfield, a hull
hard to fault. He is by Veru
Milton (imp. in utero), formerly
the stud’s senior sire, which was
bought for four figures when a
calf.
Junior champion, Dalkeith
Glengarry, was bred and exhi-
bited by Miss Thelma
McMaster ; both McMaster and
Dalkeith being names sufficiently
known outside N.S.W. Timor
White Bros.’ (N.S.W.) Timor
Princess Royal 42nd won the
championship (cow or heifer),
and in the junior championship
W- Mcllrath’s Windsor Minerva
82nd was reserve to the Turee
heifer.
Shorthorns
McCaughey’s Coonong Stud
(N.S.W.) was back in the news.
Calrossie Tranquil (imp.) seems
likely to be as great a sire as
Calrossie Red Baronet (imp.), the
bull that put Coonong in the top
class some years back. There is
a good deal of Calrossie blood
in the stud. (At Perth, Scotland,
incidentally, a Calrossie bull sold
for 5600gn5., stg., in February.)
The champion bull, Borambola
Halifax (bred and exhibited by
Mrs. D. R. McCaughey), is by
Calrossie Tranquil out of Boram-
bola Broadhooks Landlady 3rd,
a descendant of Calrossie Broad-
hooks Landlady (imp.).
Reserve champion, Wooraar-
gama Paradox, was bred and
exhibited by H. R. Lomax and
Sons (Vic.). Junior champion
was J, Kemelfield’s Won gala
Formidable from Victoria.
Reserve, Apex Diplomat, was
bred and exhibited by C. Parker,
of Apex Stud, Meandarra (Q.).
This is the first time Parker has
exhibited in Sydney. He paid
the record price (at the time) of
SOOOgns. for this bull’s sire,
Wongala Champion (imp. in
utero).
J. Kemelfield also collected
the reserve (cows and heifers)
with Wongala Pancake Bth,
beaten for first place by Lithgow
and Ross’s Dauntless Rosabelle.
This heifer won the junior cham-
pionship, reserve going to
McCaughey’s Coonong Lustre
Cream. D. R. McCaughey was
most successful exhibitor.
Poll Shorthorns
Once again J. T. Scrymgeour,
the famous blind breeder from
Queensland, appeared promin-
ently in the prize-lists. His bull,
Netherby Mark Twain, took the
championship. Reserve was
T. B. C. Walker’s Kaluga
Wingate, junior champion
Kaluga Air Raid, from the same
N.S.W. stud, and reserve junior
champion K. G. Mackinnon and
Sons’ (N.S.W.) Bogan
Lieutenant.
Later, Netherby Mark Twain
brought 5300gns. at the sales —
an Australian record for the
breed: buyers, Berawinnia
Pastoral Company (N.S.W.).
H. H. Macfarlane, of Young
(N.S.W.), won the senior cham-
pionship, cows and heifers, with
Milly Milly Ecstasy; sire was
Netherby Imperial Command.
The same breeders took the
reserve junior championship with
a heifer by the same sire. A
Netherby heifer, Netherby
Rambling Rose 2nd, was junior
champion.
Aberdeen-Angus
The blacks were rather fewer
than is usual, but good. F. H.
Tout and Co.’s (N.S.W.) Wamba-
numba Welder was both
senior and junior champion bull,
reserves in both divisions going
to two bulls from H. G. Munro s
(N.S.W.) stud.
F. E. Body Estate’s (N.S.W.)
Ardour Apex won the champion-
ship for cow or heifer, and the
junior championship with the
same animal; Terrinallum Stud
(Vic.) collecting the reserve in
the first, and G. E. Reid Estate
(N.S.W.) taking the second.
Poll Hereford*
Mrs. M. Wright’s Blandford
Favorite was champion bull.
Blandford is one of the most
promising N.S.W. studs. Reserve
champion was H. T. Thompson
and Son’s Invernisk Grand Crest.
These Merriwa (N.S.W.) breeders
collected two other reserves,
Invernisk Janice 3rd taking that
double, J. W. Williamson's
Castle Bend Gleeful 2nd (Bowral,
N.S.W.) pipping her in both
divisions.
W. J. Lenehan, of Narrandera
(N.S.W.), won the junior and
junior reserve championships
with Brewarrana Dictator and
Brewarrana Duplicate.
Red Polls
Perry Brothers (N.S.W.)
usually dominate this section at
Sydney. Champion bull was
exhibited by H. and I. Hechen-
dorf (N.S.W.), but bred by
Perry Bros. Brigadier Hurst
took reserve and junior champion
with two of his Larkhill (N.S.W.)
bulls; junior reserve went to
Arrow Barsay, exhibited by
W, K. Cowlinshaw (N.S.W-).
Northwood Florenza (J. S.
McNamara, Vic.), a good dual-
purpose cow, took the champion-
ship. Perry Bros.’ Bundaleer
Bead was reserve, and the same
breeders took the junior cham-
pionship with Bundaleer Balleita.
Perry Bros, were the most
successful exhibitors.
Devons
Once again the competition
was mainly between Havilah and
Ban Ban, both N.S.W. Havilah
took the senior and junior cham-
pionships for bulls and cows.
Agreement with Vestey’s
“Stromlo”: At long last the
conversion of Vestey’s land-hold-
ings in the Northern Territory
has been completed, and some-
thing like 14,000 square miles
will now become available for
land-seekers. Vestey’s will re-
tain 15,234 square miles on lease
(the area they are surrendering
includes 5351 square miles held
under grazing licences), and they
will have to spend £250,000 in
the next four or five years on
development.
All this gives effect to an
arrangement previously approved
by the Chifley Government, but
it is noteworthy that the two
Liberal Ministers who have held
the Territories portfolio since
then both felt the arrangements
were not so strict towards Ves-
tey’s as they might have been.
In addition to the developmental
expenditure, Vestey’s will have to
spend about £320,000 to replace
improvements —fences, bores,
wells and equipment—on the
stations they are to retain.
Their total expenditure will
work out at nearly £4O per square
mile, and the present Minister,
Paul Hasluck, says this is close to
the amount which Government
experts regard as the economic
level of developmental expendi-
ture on Territory stations under
present conditions.
Cattlemen at the Show
“Clunesman”: Cattlemen
from other States, and from
overseas, give color to the claim
that Sydney Royal ranks as onb
of the world’s greatest beef-
exhibitions. And some of them
are colorful in their own right.
Tall, broad-shouldered John E.
Rice, from Sheridan, in the cattle
State of Wyoming (U.S.A.), was
a striking figure on opening
day. High - heeled boots,
Stetson—altogether the well-
dressed rancher. He selected
a Hereford steer as champion of
the Show, and after the steer-
judging he was interested to hear
that the champion, bred and
exhibited by Turee Station,
Coolah (N.S.W.), had been fed
on lines advocated by C.5.1.R.0.
scientist Dr. Franklin.
From New Zealand (con-
sidered by Aberdeen-Angus
breeders as next in import-
ance to Scotland so far as their
breed is concerned), J. E. Downes
Roberts. He comes from Glad-
brook, Middlemarch, Otago,
and, apart from the customary
politeness of visiting judges, he
seemed really impressed by the
brigade of blacks that con-
fronted him on judging-day.
C. H. Bennett flew a team of
Shorthorns up from Tassie. His
model property at Exton House,
Westbury, is producing animals
of better class each year. Sydney
gave him the opportunity to
compare them with the nation s
best.
John Bott, of Naranghi Stud,
near Yarrawonga (Vic.), took
things easy this year. A steward
and exhibitor at Melbourne
Royal, and usually an exhibitor
at Sydney, he was an interested
onlooker for a change.
Once again businessman J.
Kemelfield, Wongala, \Voodend
(Vic.), set tongues wagging with
his team of Shorthorns. Since
founding his stud he has set new
all-breed auction-records; he
had to travel the world to pick
up the animals he wanted.
Bob Arnold, a former reporter
on “Farmer and Settler,” intends
to start a Shorthorn stud in
northern N.S.W., for which he
will use the prefix “Vermont.”
Bob is enthusiastic, and has
packed some out-of-the-way
experience into his 27 years. He
went to the U.K. and worked on
rural properties. His trip took
him to some of the world’s
greatest studs, and to such
famous spots for cattlemen (and
GET IN EARLY
So popular has “The Bulle-
tin’s” Wool Type Card become
to classers, sheep - owners,
wool students, and others
associated with wool, that the
demand keeps on threatening
the supply. Send for yours
now—your name and address
and postal-note for 7s. 6d.


advt
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
IBARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BAIUIEHE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Ton will at once, without effort and
In all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for PRES LITERATURE
BABBERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3m). 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Missing Friends
Estate of WILLIAM PATRICK ORONAN.
—Will ELIZABETH JANE CRONAN
(formerly FLANNERY), who married
William Patrick Oronan at Oollingwood
on 25th October, 1897, or any person
having any information about her, please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Re Estate of WILLIAM PATRICK
HENDERSON.—Any person knowing the
whereabouts of next of kin of WILLIAM
PATRICK HENDERSON, late of 48 Mc-
Gregor Street, Middle Park, Club Steward,
who was bom about 1892 and died on
2nd February, 1963, should immediately
notify PUBLIC TRUSTEE. 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
KEATS, ERNEST DERBY BLYTHE.
Would anyone knowing his whereabouts
please communicate with the UNION
TRUSTEE CO. OF AUST., LTD., 383
Collins Street, Melbourne.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F, W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STHUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT Mv. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
m
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W, Board of Health . Guaranteed .
This self-contained sanitary system • gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
g
YOU CAN INSTAI. IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS '
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIO.; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St.. Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth,
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN; Q. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffl.es Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
a
3
'
X6
thebe simply isn’t space to tell
you the full story of Aga . . .
and the remarkable difference it
will make for you in comfort,
ease and tranquillity of living.
We can mention it’s a coke-
burning cooker with a difference,
a luxury difference that makes it
the finest cooker in the world.
We caa lightly touch
upon such facts as:
f op
n S f
'K'if
ouli
e . r 'ol
fir/#
«fe*
as/
trr >el
The correct grade
of coke now in
ample supply.
AGA can cook by itself . . . unwatched, unaided!
Burns day and night . . . ready for instant use, always!
Requires only 10 minutes attention in every 24 hours!
Gives all the hot water you could reasonably want . .
kitchen and bathroom!
for both
AGA is more economical ... its fuel consumption, thermo-
statically controlled, is guaranteed never to exceed a definite,
and very modest, figure per year, no matter how much nor how
long you cook!
The
Regd. Trade Mark
is the
ONLY Cooker that
gives you all THIS ...
k-
POST TO-DAY FOR A FREE LEAFLET
LEVIN & CO. LTD. |
(Established in New Zealand in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for ASA
Cooker and BencTa Home Washer f m ,
NEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _ _ _ _ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND Cnr. Margaret and Albert Sts., Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ A. 6. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS; MALLOCH BROS. LTD., Perth
others) as Perth (Scotland), for
the Angus and Shorthorn sales.
Geoff Lee came down from
Surat (Q.). He’s well on the way
to becoming a top-rank breeder
of Shorthorns. With blood of
southern studs in his breeding-
programme, he likes to see how
those studs fare in open competi-
tion.
George Simpson, beef-cattle
Extension Officer with N.S.W.
Agricultural Department, fitted
in visits to the cattle-ring between
rounds as pig-steward. Born at
Dundee (Scotland), and a gradu-
ate of our Hawkesbury College,
he’s making a name for himself
as one of Australia’s topline beef
extension-workers. With more
scientific and economic facts
emerging about the industry
every day, cattlemen need some-
one to collate the data and pre-
sent it in digestible form. He
fits the bill admirably.
Monaro (N.S.W.) men in-
cluded T. M. (Joe) Walcott, of
Bombala, the Gunning family
from Bibbenluke, and the Eccle-
stons and Moulds from Cooma.
All Hereford or Poll Hereford
fanciers, they were anxious to
see how the judges placed their
animals after vying together at
the southern shows a few weeks
ago.
Big interest in the Poll Here-
ford ring, apart from the judge,
was the first calves by the
famous Milton Sanak 4th. This
sire set a record in 1951 of 3500
guineas, when he was bought by
his present owner, Douglas Car-
negie, of D. and M. Carnegie,
Kildrummie, Holbrook (N.S.W.).
His progeny not only carried the
Kildrummie banner tiigh, but
two performed in grand fashion
for A. W. and F. R. Locke, of
Wirruna, Holbrook, who showed
two out of Kildrummie dams.
Mrs. G. T. Reid, of Narran-
gullen, Yass (N.S.W.), Aberdeen-
Angus Stud, was set for a busy
time on judging-day. After see-
ing her cattle do so well in the
ring, she had to step into a car
and be whisked off to catch a
ship to the U.K., where she’ll
spend some time in the clan
country up north.
Martin Alberni, of Fulham
Shorthorn Stud, Ferntree Gully
(Vic.), came for a look only ; he
was accompanied by his herds-
man, Bruce Urquhart, a Hawkes-
bury College graduate who
worked for the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture at Trangie
before he took on his present
job.
N. R. (Joe) Wheeler, manager
of Table Top Devon Stud near
Albury (N.S.W.), reckons Devons
are an underrated breed. Joe
says Table Top bulls have gone
to the Centre in increasing
numbers over the last few
seasons.
Fred Dawson, studmaster at
Kelso, was there with Ray
Starritt, “son” in the G. Starritt
and Son who have made the
name of Kelso Park, Tatura
(Vic.), mean something to Border
Leicester breeders. Their success
with Shorthorns indicates that
they will become as well-known
to cattlemen as they are in the
world of British-breed sheep.
Although George Forbes has
hung out his shingle as a stock-
and-station agent at Narrandera
(N.S.W.), he still takes an interest
in stud beef ; as he has ever since
he came out from Scotland more
than 20 years ago. He now
advises Bill Lenehan, of
Brewarrana Poll Hereford Stud,
near Narrandera.
Another Scot, and a very busy
one, was Andy McG. Sproat,
stud consultant. Andy lives in
Sydney, but advises several Short-
horn and Hereford breeders.
Hints for the Farm
Two from the N.R.M.A.:
On the rubber-mounted engine it is
not uncommon to find the exhaust-
line loose at the manifold-flange. This
condition can be prevented—and gas
kept out of the body—if the flange-
securing nuts are tensioned at inter-
vals, and the gasket renewed as
necessary.
Removal of modern tyres can be
troublesome if you don’t free the tyre-
beads from the rim. Don’t try to
remove both beads in the one opera-
tion. Remember to deflate the tube
by removing the valve insert, then the
tyre-removing operation should be
started at the valve. A little air in the
tube before inserting it in the tyre
when refitting will help in avoiding
pinching. Start replacing tyre-beading
on side opposite to the valve.
“Waltzing Matilda”: Goggles
are useful equipment on the
farm, where so much work holds
potential danger to the eyes.
Get into the habit of wearing
them when tackling work with
metal, mixing sprays, handling
fertilisers, cutting thorny hedges,
etc. The best immediate treat-
ment if the eye does receive a
chemical splash is to wash with
water. Every so often scrub
goggles in hot soapy water and
hang up to dry. A little glycerine
in the rinse-water will restore the
gloss on any rubber parts.
Lenses can be treated with an
anti-dim preparation to prevent
misting.
“T.P.”: If sheep are allowed
to feed direct from small field-
stacks of hay there is little waste
from trampling and fouling: so
this method is probably the
cheapest and easiest way of con-
serving fodder and using it.
Collect hay with a sweeprake and
support stacks with a central
pole.
“Sundowner”; When tops turn
brown, onions are ready for har-
vesting. Spread in a dry, sunny
place, then string-up in bunches
or place thinly on a wire-netting
rack in a dry, airy location with
plenty of light. Should keep in
good condition for seven or eight
months.
“C.A.A.”: To obtain maxi-
mum lambing results the breed-
ing-ewe should have adequate
nourishment during the last one-
third of pregnancy. Usually this
isn’t available in the paddock,
because of seasonal falling-off of
quantity and quality. So supple-
ment grazing with meadow-hay,
silage, or grain, and start hand-
feeding five weeks before lamb-
ing is due.
“T.T.”: An operation that is
often recommended but seldom
carried out by the car-owner is
draining, flushing and refilling of
hydraulic - braking system.
Battery-clamps and starter-con-
nections often work loose, caus-
ing the flow of current to the
electrical system and ignition to
cease. When you strike trouble
with starter, light and ignition,
suspect the battery - clamps,
cables, etc.
“Handy”: In repairing broken
window-panes the difficulty of
removing old hardened putty can
be overcome by brushing over
with a solution of caustic-soda.
After about an hour the putty
will be soft and easy to remove.
“Midwest”: Stickfast fleas
are reddish-brown, smaller than
the ordinary body-flea and can
send chooks blind. They cluster
on skin devoid of feathers, such
as around the eyes. Severe irrita-
tion causes loss of condition, if
not worse. Treatment requires
individual handling. Neatsfoot-
or castor-oil applied once a week
with a soft brush will kill the
fleas. Alternate dressings could
be sulphur (one part) and
vaseline (four parts), or kerosene
(one part) and lard (four parts).
Spray sheds with sheep-dip or
kerosene-emulsion.
“K.”: When choosing
tomatoes for planting early next
season give a thought to the
dwarf South Australian Red.
Eleven plants of this type pro-
duced 344 tomatoes in January
of this year in our [S.A.] garden.
These were of the usual good
size; flavor excellent. Cropping
is continuing. No special treat-
ment other than a slight shelter
from a strong south wind. They
weren’t pruned, or even thinned.
Manuring—two applications of
foliar fertiliser in January.
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
The rain in the Northern Territory is an interesting
example of the longer cycle. It came in April in the last
manifestation and gave some moderate rains, but not very
far inland; hope for those regions is still the May rains,
which, although they did not then start from the Gulf itself,
gave very good falls in the central-west of Queensland and
further south.
In the south the dry March and April do not indicate a
drought. The season should be good from May on.


■il
WSSm
■ | * V
■
m
m
i mm
■ *
m
m
■
. ■
:■ . •••.
"THE GENERAL MOTORS HOUR"
Every Wednesday night between 8.30 and 9.30 brilliant producer-director,
Harry Dearth introduces you to the finest in radio entertainment — The
General Motors Hour.” Drama, comedy, romance, adventure—all from
the pens of the world’s best playwrights, and presented by the foremost
stars of Australian radio in productions that are unexcelled.
♦ Harry Dearth directs John Tate, Nigel Lovell and
Charles McCallum in a General Motors Hour comedy.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX, 2NM, 2MW, 2LF, 2PK, 2MG, 2WL, 2LT,
2CA, 3CV, 4GY, 6WB, 6MD, 6BY, 7LA
and a nation-wide network of other commercial broadcasting stations.
MACQUARIE
CASTING S E R V I C E
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Better Bread
All the cereal laboratories in
the world will not give N. S.
Wales better bread while the war-
time measure of zoning remains.
The zone system has proved so
economical from the baker's
point of view that there is little
likelihood of its ever being
abolished.
The baker is providing a com-
modity that everyone must have,
and he is in a position to get rid
of any rubbish he likes to put
out. The excuses for poor-
quality bread are many and
varied —poor flour, poor wheat,
wrong baking-hours, faulty
ovens, shortage of labor, and so
forth. Never, of course, the
right one.
The baking and distribution
of bread is, as with milk, a
monopoly at its worst. There is
little regard for public need or
public good. The baker just
doesn’t care, because no one else
can supply better bread in
opposition to him.
To whom can you protest?
The usual reply is: “You haven’t
got to buy the bread.” That’s
just the trouble—you have got
to buy it, particularly if you’re
a housewife a mile or more from
shopping-centres.
If ever competition was needed
it is needed now in the bread
game. Once the baker found
that he had to produce quality in
order to sell his product he
would soon overcome all the
difficulties in the way of better
bread, — Wackford (N.S.W.).
Languages in Schools
The present method of teach-
ing foreign languages may call for
revision, but I can’t agree with
those who maintain that the
learning of languages is a
complete waste of time because
only “a very small minority will
make any practical use of it.”
A high-school headmaster
lately warned against ultra-
utilitarian trends in education,
with schooling tending to become
too much a mere preparation
for earning a crust. There must
certainly be some Such training,
but it must not take up the
whole of high-school time.
Languages will have to be
taught so long as the object of
schooling is to give a man a
cultural basis as well as a
technical grounding. And, after
all, schooldays give only a
basis of knowledge in any
subject, utilitarian or cultured.
The basis acquired in some
subjects (e.g., languages) helps
in the gaining of general
knowledge.
I learned Latin and French
at school and regret that I
didn’t also take German or
ancient Greek. Knowledge of
foreign languages improves one’s
handling of English, and that’s
the main reason why the teach-
ing of them should be retained.
—Keima (Q.).
History at the University
Professor Greenwood, of
Queensland University, deplores
that little thought is given to the
pass-courses in history at Aus-
tralian universities. He has said,
inter alia, that “an undergraduate
of intelligence could pass the
three years by using notes and
secondary works.” He could
have added that a close analysis
of past exam.-papers was an even
surer method of passing.
Very few graduates with three
courses of history in their B.A.
degree have any claims to scholar-
ship in the subject. In spite of a
comprehensive reading-list re-
commended by the university, I
found it possible to pass my final
year in history by using one
book only, a standard text used
in the fourth and fifth years at
the secondary schools. Few
undergrads bother to read widely
when they know that a simply-
written, easy-to-read textbook
gives them all they need.
Generally a lecturer in history
has a distinguished record in
research in one particular field ;
unfortunately he is not often
called upon to lecture in it. His
other lectures merely suggest a
close reading of a few secondary
sources. The examinations do
not call for anything but a
superficial knowledge of the
subject, and rarely is the student
asked to use much more than a
good memory.
University courses follow too
closely the syllabus of the sec-
ondary schools, and they do not
ask for any more reading than
would be done by a fifth-year
student at high school. It means
that a first-year undergrad, can
take history without having done
it at all in his five years at
secondary school. Compare that
with mathematics —a student has
no hope of doing university
maths, if he hasn’t gained at least
an “A” in his Leaving.
Reform is badly needed. Up
to the Leaving the student
should be given a broad histori-
cal background, plus an appreci-
ation of the significance of the
main historical movements. By
the time the student enters the
university he should know suf-
“Ninepence to see that tripe—ought to be banned .”
ficient history to avoid having to
do the same courses over again.
No one should be able to tackle
uni. history unless he has a
satisfactory pass in the Leaving.
The university course should
be more like the Honors or the
M.A. course. Lectures could deal
with a specific period or move-
ment in detail. For example, 12
months spent on the French
Revolution and its influences
would be of far more value than
a year spent, as at present, trying
to cover from 1789 to 1940.
The system of setting essays
is a failure. In 3000 words the
student is expected to write about
“The home front in Australia in
World War I” or “The rise of
Fascism in Italy.” Despite
lengthy reading-lists one good
book is all that is needed to get
a pass-mark. If the three-year
pass-course were to call for two
theses of about 15,000 to 20,000
words the student could feel that
he knew a good deal about two
aspects of history at least.
For some reason history has
become unpopular. The attempts
to do away with it in the schools
are apparently being aided by
the university attitude. It is up
to the universities to treat it as
the important subject it is.—C.
Forth (N.S.W.).
Canberra and “Riverslake”
From his criticism of T. A.
Hungerford’s River slake (B.
3/3/’54) it seems that “L.R.M.”
is unacquainted with life ,at
Canberra and one or two things
about the place which explain
the harshness of life there for
non-British migrants.
Since 1946 the population of
the A.C.T. has jumped from
11,000 to nearly 30,000, an
increase which has raised a
serious housing problem. To
solve it the Federal Government
undertook a long-range plan and
built several temporary hostels
for workers of all trades, in
which men of all nationalities
were housed. A large percent-
age were non-British migrants,
most of whom hadn’t been in
Australia very long.
Settling into Canberra, with
its almost exclusive public-service
set-up, is, even for the ordinary
Australian, a difficult business.
The place is peculiarly isolated
from many of the amenities and
“escapes” which the normal city
—or large country town —
provides as a matter of course.
For the European migrant,
often Stateless, the situation must
have been wellnigh intolerable.
He was thrust willy-nilly into a
soulless camp with some
hundreds of others in a similar
predicament; he had little or no
feminine company; his job was
probably wholly distasteful and
his recreational outlets in-
adequate ; his only Australian
acquaintances were often as de-
picted by . Hungerford. No
wonder his life was possibly
dreary and, to some, even
hopeless.
Without excusing the fact that
such conditions did exist, it is
good to record that they have
lessened and, by now, perhaps
vanished.
It is, however, too sweeping to
assume that life was, and
remains, as grim for migrants
throughout the Commonwealth.
Those men and women who were
quartered temporarily in hostels
in the larger cities and country
towns must have had normal
enjoyments and recreation to
interest them.
On reading his copy of
Riverslake again, “L.R.M,’
might modify his earlier opinions
and conclude, like many of the
inhabitants of that city, that the
author was, in part, obliquely
deprecating many of the unfor-
tunate sides of human nature
which Canberra can unwittingly
bring to the fore. — Karrimba
(Vic.).
Young Men for the Land
Surely it is the Governments
job to attract youth to the coun-
try (B. 17/3/’54).
About 45 years ago, in my
schooldays, the N. S. Wales
Education Department ran a
series of rural camp-schools for
city boys. During school periods,
and not in holidays, groups of
about 10 boys from each of 10
different city schools were taken,
at their parents’ expense, to camp
in country districts for about a
fortnight at a time.
I was at two of these camps.
The first was at Morpeth, to
which town we travelled by the
paddle-steamer Namoi. We
visited each day a well-run farm,
butter-factory, cheese-factory,
coalmine and so on.
The second camp was at
Nowra, and there the scope for
visiting dairyfarms was much
greater.
On our return to . school each
boy had to read his diary to the
class and explain by blackboard
diagrams the various machines
and processes he had seen.
The whole scheme was appar-
ently designed to lure boys onto
the ' land. Years later, after I
had left school, I had a letter
from some department asking if
I had taken up any agricultural
or country calling. I was able
to say that I had.
Now that the western districts
of N. S. Wales have come more
into reach of the city by better
roads and aerial transport and
with big holdings and stations
well-hutted, there is no reason
why, in the off-seasons, the
accommodation could not be
rented occasionally by the
Government. Then parties of
city boys could be sent out with
a teacher in charge, as we were.
The reluctance of most city
boys to go to the country stems
from sheer ignorance. They’re
afraid that there are no ameni-
ties and that conditions are hard.
The obvious thing to do is to
show them how good the life
can be. — Dune (N.S.W.).


THE MAGICIANS
J. B. PRIESTLEY
A mocking but wise novel of contemporary life
At all booksellers - - - 15/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON :: MELBOURNE :: SYDNEY AUCKLAND
THIS 1 BELIEVE
edited by Edward P. Morgan, with a
foreword by Edward R. Morrow. Fifty
British and fifty American people write
of the beliefs that lead them to a full
and happy life. Aneurin Bevan, Aldous
Huxley, Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt and
Helen Keller are some of the famous
people who share their beliefs with us.
15/6 (post 9d.)
THE POWER OF POSITIVE
THINKING
by Morman Vincent Peale, D.D. —the
author proves, by experience, that an
attitude of mind can change lives, win
success and overcome obstacles. He
gives a realistic plan, based on Christian
faith and modern psychiatry, that will
give you greater happiness, improved
health and larger earnings.
13/6 (post 7d.)
... /'-h
You’ll find them all at
Write, ’phone or call in jor these, and all the books you want
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Street, Sydney
66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Some call it “The Cruel Sea ” of the war on land
THE CLIMATE OF COURAGE
by JON CLEARY 16$. Oi.
A great war novel —a fine story of comradeship and courage
Available at all booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
mostly long runs and increasing success,
as smart young secretaries, devil-may-
care tramps, etc.:
In “The Cub” he first made con-
spicuous use of his acrobatic ability. In one
scene he had to run upstairs in a 'two-level
set to save the heroine’s life.
"Run?” he said, when he first saw the
set. “What's the matter with jumping?”
Brady and the director eyed the twelve-
foot gap between the stage and the upper
floor, and expressed their doubts.
"Like this,” Douglas said, and, taking
a short run, jumped and caught the edge of
the upper floor and pulled himself up. It
made a tremendous hit with the audi-
ence. . .
In “The Lights o’ London,”
Douglas’s big scene was in a market,
where he jumped from concealment and
started battling a crowd single-handed, the
curtain coming down on the melee at its
height... .The stage crowd had it in for
Douglas and it was usually anything but a
fake fight. Eight times a week they ganged-
up on him and frequently they got so
earnest about it the management and the
stagehands had to rescue him after the
curtain had fallen.
For anyone under the impression that
Fairbanks was an inexperienced extra
who walked in off the street on to the
beginning of films and was lucky enough
to grow with Hollywood, these details of
his early career should be most informa-
tive. in 1915, when Harry E. Aitken
offered him 2000 dollars a week to join
;oe newly-formed Triangle Films in Hoily-
vood, Fairbanks was about the best stage-
avenile in New York, with fifteen years’
age experience behind him, and a mas-
ter of all the stage tricks of his own kind
of acting. For him at that time it was
a condescension to consider acting in
films. When his friend Frank Case of
the Alonquin Hotel pointed out 2000
dollars a week was more than he could
hope to earn in the theatre, especially paid
every week of the year, and that a con-
tract for 104,000 dollars was not tp be
considered lightly,” Fairbanks said “I
know, but the movies! ”
To Case’s arguments were added the
thought that Fairbanks was now 31,
getting old for a juvenile, and the example
of Mary Pickford, now star of Famous
Players, who in five years of films had
accumulated almost a million dollars and
was at that time receiving 2000 dollars a
week and half the profits of her films.
Fairbanks met her for the first time while
he was making up his mind, and when he
finally signed the film contract and went
to Hollywood, he was already in love
with her.
Griffith’s “Birth of a Nation,” the first
film to prove that the public would pay
"regular theatre prices for a moving-pic-
ture show,” had been shown in New York
while Fairbanks was considering his con-
tract ; and it was to supply such films
that Triangle Pictures had been formed.
Many othef actors as prominent as Fair-
banks had been brought over in Aitken’s
net; and the first Fairbanks picture, “The
Lamb,” was not considered by Griffith
or any others of the Hollywood menagerie
to be a good film, but the Knickerbocker
Theatre in New York wanted a Griffith
picture for its gala opening, September
23, 1915, and as “The Lamb,” with Fair-
banks as an “acrobatic clown,” was the
only new Griffith picture available, it was
sent across.
Fairbanks had not pleased the sedate
Griffith; person after person who knew
him in his early days invokes “St. Vitus
Dance” to describe his off-stage antics.
After making “The Lamb” Griffith told
Fairbanks he would do better opposite
Mabel Normand in two-reel Keystone
comedies, and offered to put in a word for
him with Mack Sennett. Fairbanks him-
self was so depressed that he didn’t bother
to attend the premiere.
So that the complete success of “The
Lamb,” with Paderewski as guest of
honor, which marked the emergence of
films from the shadow of “vulgarity,”
established Fairbanks immediately as a
star. He made one more picture with
Griffith, and then was given directors more
willing to cope with him; and in eleven
months he starred in eleven pictures, more
than a quarter of his whole life’s output.
In these early films, which included
“Double Trouble,” “His Picture in the
Papers,” “The Habit of Happiness,” “The
Good Bad Man,” “Reggie Mixes In,”
“Manhatten Madness,” etc., he let a
rattlesnake crawl over him, wrestled, a
mountain lion, ju-jutsu’d a bunch of
Indians, worked a machine-gun single-
handed, ran a car off a cliff, did six
rounds with a professional boxer, jumped
off an ocean liner, leaped from fast trains,
brawled with gangsters and gunmen,
burned away half his hair and eyelashes
saving the sheriff from a forest fire in
“The Half Breed” (written for him by
Anita Loos), and acted a comic detective
in an underwater film. He never used a
double. By 1916 Fairbanks was making
10.000 dollars a week “with practically
no income-tax.”
But to Fairbanks this was mere chicken-
feed. The first-class, feature that cost
250.000 dollars netted a million. By the
end of 1916 he had formed the Douglas
Fairbanks Pictures Corporation, brought
his stepbrother Jack from Denver to run
it, and arranged with Famous Players to
distribute his films. Then he persuaded
his engineer-brother Robert to cOme in as
production-manager, responsible for the
castles, mosques and galleons of his later
huge productions, and such things as the
gigantic automobile used in “The Molly-
coddle,” which cost 20,000 dollars and
was able to run under its own power for
nearly fifty feet at the speed of a snail, but
by trick photography appeared on the screen
whizzing by at sixty miles an hour.
When his mother died in 1916, it was
to Mary Pickford he turned for consola-
tion. He settled half his fortune on his
wife when she divorced him in 1918 ; he
became the first movie-star to rent a
house in the new suburb of Beverley
Hills, and he bought an old hunting-lodge
opposite his rented place, added a wing
and a huge swimming-pool and called it
Pickfair, in preparation for his marriage
to Mary Pickford. Chaplin bought a
place next door. In 1919, at Mary Pick-
ford’s suggestion, Fairbanks joined with
her, Chaplin and Griffith to form the
United Artists’ Corporation, to secure
for the stars control over the distribution
of their pictures, Mary Pickford secured
a divorce from her husband on March
3, 1920, and Fairbanks married her on
March 28.
They had been worried over the effect
of this marriage on their public ; but these
were new.times, and he was not a respon-
sible lawyer like his father: the marriage
of “the world’s sweetheart” with the
gayest and most popular of film-actors
took the world by storm, and their tour
of Europe became a progress of monarchs
through a newly-conquered kingdom.
His next picture on his return, his 30th
picture, “The Mark of Zorro,” was “a
revolution in the motion-picture indus-
try.” It broke the superstition that cos-
tume-pictures would never go over and it
started Fairbanks on the succession of
pictures that had the maturity of great-
ness in them, each one capturing and
concentrating some part of his extra-
ordinary abilities and bringing it from
mere exhibitionism to polished art: “The
Three Musketeers,” “Robin Hood,” “The
Thief of Bagdad,” “Don Q, Son of
Zorro,’* “The Black Pirate,” “The
Gaucho,” “The Man in the Iron Mask.”
The feeling for the artistic quality of
these films is best summed up in the “New
York Times’s” criticism of “The Thief of
Bagdad”: “an entrancing picture, whole-
some and beautiful, deliberate but com-
pelling, a feat of motion-picture art which
has never been equalled....” though
film historians, says the biography, put
“Robin Hood” first.
Here again, it is news to the uninitiated
that Fairbanks was not merely the actor
in these films ; he was the life and soul
of his whole company, the inspiration of
the scenario, overseeing all points of de-
tail, so good an administrator that on the
death of his stepbrother he was able to
take on the financial control himself, and
so keen a businessman that other film
tycoons, and businessmen who sat with
him on the innumerable boards where his
money was invested, felt lucky enough to
break even with him on a deal.
The biography paints a very pleasant
picture of him during these years, playing
childish jokes in his studios with trick
chairs that gave the sitter electric shocks,
shopping for ties for himself and throw-
ing complete outfits at the group of
satellites who always accompanied him;
buying Rolls-Royces for himself and half-
toyshops for his nieces ; entertaining
Spanish Royalty at “Pickfair,” and
showing-round the midshipman Duke of
Kent.
There are also many good stories about
his acting. For instance, he was able to
jump on a table without looking at it
during a sword-fight. His copyists always
had to look ; they never mastered the
simple point that hot having to look made
all the difference to the effect, and so
they did not think it worth while to have
the table-legs sawn until it was just the
right height for this feat, as Fairbanks
did. And there was the time when
brother Robert insisted on his using a
double for the dangerous climb up the
drawbridge chain in “Robin Hood.” The
first double tried was not graceful
enough, so brother Robert procured
another; and, Fairbanks having decided
to work out some new routines in the
gymnasium, Robert put the new man
through his paces himself. But when the
new man reached the top of the climb and
turned and grinned it proved to have been
Fairbanks himself, doubling for the
double. There was also the unrecorded
scene in this picture where the drawbridge
was slowly lowered and Chaplin, in his
tramp’s make-up, walked across it, put
out the cat, picked up the morning paper
and a bottle of milk, and returned into
the castle.
These years went with such a swing
that it is hard to believe that such a
success-story could have collapsed so
suddenly, in the early 1930’5. It does not
seem to have been the talkies that beat
Fairbanks. He was a trained actor. But
he had gone to the full extent of what
action could do in films; he didn’t want
to stay m and he couldn’t bring himself
to get out. He was fabulously rich, but
he felt and thought, not like a capitalist,
but like an actor; and he said to Mary
Pickford: “When a man finds himself
sliding downhill he should do everything
to reach the bottom in a hurry and pass
ou t of the picture.
So he set out on his travels; and from
there until his death in 1939 it is a record
of a slow and wilful slide, cushioned by
wealth to which even a few months’
yachting costing 100,000 dollars,was no
serious obstacle. What he could not
understand in his father he could not
control in himself.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 274
Across
I—Airman perhaps “hits” his ob-
jective, (9)
s—Goad goes to the north reject with
disdain. (5)
B—Customs behind the front rows.
(8)
10—Batting royalty moistening a
rubber-stamp. (6)
12 — They’re sorry to shut up ego
dwellings for nomads. (9)
13— I and Tschaikovsky losing heart
when requiring scratching. (5)
15— Napoleonic victory idol comes
back. (4)
16 — Auburn’s spice peps up straggling
niggers. (7)
19—Ways of testers. (7)
21—Go away to Soho. (4)
25 — A good round is more than good;
it’s capital. (5)
26 Ship-lover is a member of the
crew. (9)
27 — Father-of-six has six children,
and mofher-of-ten urged to step
on it. (6)
29 Don’t be so big as to disparage
it. (8)
30 — Where I am in turn. (5)
31— -There are no hurdles for these
species evolved under steam-
rollers. (4-5)
Down
1 — Ekip obeys this tollgate. (8)
2 He names only women over 150
on a rocky mountain. (11)
3 The undersized knock the sense
out of a boy and looped the loop.
(7) ...
4 Taint contradicted; so sit back.
(3)
5 Vice-regal personality is going
down. (7)
6 -Where to learn of Central Tunis.
(3)
7 The city upset at) Iberian artist.
«5)
9—This bird is a street away from
Ernest. (4)
11—The snake I see as a matter of
course in summer time. (5)
14—Bus cat to caper about telling
fortunes with the cards. (11)
17— Pinks include this label in the
steamer. (5)
18— Chucker-outs delivered by Lar-
wood in 1932-33. (8)
20 —Oriental letter behind the ship.
(7)
22 Has a row, being of shorter
temper. (7)
23 — Out of bed and drunk as a result.
(6)
24 —Went the opposite way. (4)
28 — Word used with respect to a
man. (3)
29 Babylonian god is beautiful to
Frenchmen. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 273


THE UNIT OF
mo
BATTERIES
RjBBSgsL
’ •>•'• : ’■ • '
:, ’ r
: '>.’ : : : :\*: : ;n
fs6_sj
‘ „
I Hi |fi|* t .yk
- ■■.... ‘. -' - •
?®S:K!
• • ' ' ~
ri •; .;
.
mm.
immm
P *
Hi
i ” ’ . '-iv
f-rivf
*• smm
s**
V,;K-;
iSI-i
m
I ill
Mm
;rf:¥>
twS
a ... ip
■yis
;
iipi
Jm
mm
r
r
Ml
••
Mil
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES;
CAR. TRUCK. TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH.
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER. ETC.
NSW.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY„ LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32*34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
uAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON*
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulbum Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MAS 188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones; 86565, 84448
