

THE HOUSE
h
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
ANTARCTIC EPIC-mge 25
*The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3889
Wednesday, August 25, 1954
Price 9d.
, , r. * c „ mc w Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.*
Seppelts
MANY A GRAND OPERA HAS HAD ITS
WORLD PREMIERE AT COVENT GARDEN
NEAR the heart of London’s West End,
between the Strand and Long Acre, is
Covent Garden—a Square occupied on one
side by the largest vegetable, fruit and flower
market in Britain, and on the other by the
Royal Opera House, one of the world s most
celebrated opera houses. Both these institutions
have flourished side by side for centuries on a
site which was originally occupied by the Abbot
of Westminster’s Convent Garden of which
the present name is a corruption.
Covent Garden used to be a fashionable
promenade but following the incursion of the
vegetable and fruit vendors the people ot
fashion moved to more exclusive surroundings
further west, but the theatre stood its ground
and its reputation continued to grow throughout
the years.
For generations past the greatest names in
opera have sung at Covent Garden and the
Royal Opera House, with its grand staircase
and its rich red and gold auditorium, remains a
treasured architectural period-piece.
In 1732 Covent Garden Theatre, as it was
then known, was opened by a celebrated
harlequin, named John Rich. The first play to
be staged there was Congreve’s Way of the
World, and this was followed by Thomas Arne’s
Artaxerxes. Handel, the great musical com-
poser, lived in London for nearly fifty years
and it was at Covent Garden that most of his
oratorios were produced; his Atlanta was per-
formed there by Royal command in 1736.
Fire destroyed Rich’s Covent Garden theatre
in 1808. The theatre was rebuilt the following
year and in 1817 Mozart’s Don Giovanni and
The Marriage of Figaro were produced; in the
following years many other operas had then
first performances at Covent Garden. By 1848
opera had become firmly established. II Trova-
tore appeared in 1855 and the following year,
while a masked ball was in progress, the theatre
was again destroyed by fire.
The present building, with its impressive
Corinthian colonnade, was designed by E. M.
Barry and built in 1858, A few of the famous
names associated with Covent Garden were
Garrick, Kemble, Sarah Siddons, Edmund Kean,
McCready, Helen Faucet and Melba, who first
appeared there in 1888.
Today, Covent Garden is a national opera
house, open all the year round at reasonable
prices for both opera and ballet. The reputation
of the latter has risen to unprecedented heights,
for the resident company is the world-famous
Sadler’s Wells Ballet. One of the most brilliant
of the many Coronation festivities during 1953
was the gala first performance of Benjamin
Britten’s Gloriana, attended by H.M. the Queen,
the Duke of Edinburgh and other members ot
, the Royal Family.


The Red Page
LIGHTS ON THE HILL
Many of us who had “always intended
to read” the works of “standard philoso-
phers” were relieved at about the end of
the 1920’s to find a great deal of
philosophy discredited by the new
psychology, which showed, the wish being
father to the proof, that many and many
a universal system could be boiled-down
to some childhood fixation of its creator.
But one has only to read Politics and
Opinion in the Nineteenth Century ; An
Historical Introduction, by John Bowie
(Cape), to realise that philosophy is not
to be dismissed so easily.
For although philosophers may have
been academic speculators, their readers
have often been men of action ; and their
theories, translated into action, have pro-
duced wars, revolutions and social catas-
trophes, with, not seldom, a balance of
amelioration in the human lot; very ter-
rible medicine-men, the philosophers;
the mental armament-kings of Fascism,
Communism and modern democracy;
and Mr. Bowie’s book is a 500-page sur-
vey of the works and arguments of some
30 to 40 of them.
He begins with Herder, the pure
believer in the cult of the “Volk” which
in course of a hundred years became the
cult of the Aryan ; and Hegel, to whom
the Absolute became real in the future
of Prussia, and from whom Marx was to
take “the dialectical aspect of his
materialism”; Bentham, who criticised
the ritual, punitory, expiatory and moral
usages of law where they could be shown
to serve no useful purpose in a society
supposedly governed by reason; Austin,
who carried on the “ ‘positivist’ distinction
between law and political myth” ; De
Maistre, to whom “original sin” seemed
so ineradicable that the executioner was
more necessary to sustain society than
King, Prime Minister, or Archbishop ; to
whom war was a regular and necessary
expiation of the sins of men and nations,
and violent death was “divine in itself
because it is one of the laws of the
world”; Coleridge, who opposed Slate
encroachment on family, friendship, pri-
vate life, property and religion; Carlyle,
who believed in heroes, wrote like a Hitler
oration, and “in Shooting Niagara. ,..
comes near to a rough blueprint of
Fascism.”
Others surveyed: Saint-Simon, a tech-
nocrat before 1825, wanted an enlightened
community run by 21 men of genius ;
a United States of Europe run by a Par-
liament of scholars and an Upper House
of peers • and a new Christian religion,
which evolved into a trial in 1832 of
Enfantin, “Supreme Father of the Saint-
Simonian Church,” on charges of offences
against public morals. Comte, another
technocrat, had an even more detailed
scheme for the reorganisation of an Occi-
dental Region under a committee of eight
Frenchmen, six Germans, five Italians,
four Spaniards and four women, the
whole on a deeply religious basis, and with
a new calendar which would frighten
ogres like Napoleon by giving their names
to days of perpetual execration. Godwin,
the anarchist who believed that people
would behave well without laws (e.g.,
his son-in-law, Shelley). Fourier, who
thought it would eliminate competition
and scarcity to organise mankind into
units that would consume their own pro-
ductions—“phalansteres”—and influenced
Engels and William Morris. Robert
Owen, who wanted to organise agrarian
communities of 800 to 1200, eating to-
gether as one family, with clothing, food,
education, etc., provided—a previewer of
the Welfare State.
Proudhon, who felt it a better posses-
sion than Rothschild’s millions to have
said “Property is theft” (and, since Mr,
Bowie points out that probably Warville
de Brissot said it first, Proudhon had
reason); who wanted a society levelled
to honest peasant morality, with a religion
of conscience. Mazzini, who thought that
working people would constitute in
themselves a new religion, to be inter-
preted by poets. De Tocqueville, who
studied the United States in the 1830’s,
composing “one of the great books of
political thought,” and foresaw both the
coming and the dangers of mobocracy.
J. S. Mill, who spoke up for the rights
of women, and doubted whether bashing
private enterprise into a standardised
bureaucracy would be good for its brains.
Herbert Spencer, who considered that
the divine right of Parliament was as
baseless as the divine right of kings, and
that whatever must be undergone must
be undergone, and what a pity. Buckle,
who thought that a study of statistics and
the discovery of the “Jaws” of history
would undoubtedly assure the progress
of humanity—a belief shared by Marx.
Lecky, who “foresaw that mass democracy
would tend to war,” and found Social-
ism “a reversion to a more primitive
form of society,” , Maine, who upset
theories of Natural Law in favor of a
Natural History of Law. Bagehot, who
saw constitutionalism as a bulwark
against “some strange recurrence to a
primitive past.” Tylor, who furthered
the ideas of Maine and Bagehot with his
studies of the evolution of government
from the superstitions, fetishes and ritua
of primitive communities.
Green believed that with a few altera-
tions everything would go on very well
Bradley that no one should do anything
that would enable anyone to say that
one was an exhibitionist or not a gentle-
man. Marx discovered a theory of value
that sold better than the price people
were prepared to pay ; Engels thought so
too. Treitschke felt that war was inventec
to put the German people where they
ought to be—he underwrote both World
War I and World War 11. Schopenhauer
felt that a blind battle of conflicting wills
constituted the only reality, and that
never led to anything good, either.
Nietszche, having nothing to live for, in-
vented the Superman to enjoy life for
him at some later date ; Catholic Encycli-
cals, much respected of Mr. Bowie, raised
in this crazy battlefield the clear and
uncompromising banners of their ancient
faith. Lord Acton, as a Catholic Liberal,
“renounced everything in Catholicism
which was not compatible with liberty
and everything in politics which was
not compatible with Catholicism.” George
Sorel attacked the bourgeois idea of pro-
gress as a “myth,” but only so that he
could raise in its place the new, proletarian
myth of the General Strike—“this dark
revolutionary sceptic,” says Mr. Bowie,
“was to provide Fascism with a much-
needed political philosophy.”
The Fabian Socialists thought you only
had to take stock and run the country
with a set of committees. Morris felt
like all great-hearted, generous-minded
artists that everyone would be as great-
hearted and generous as he was. Bern-
stein wanted a Kant to separate cant from
Marxian Social Democracy ; Jaures liked
his Socialism with that flavoring of pat-
riotism, Army, renunciation of fanaticism
and appreciation of practical difficulties
which might have made him a great leader
if he had not been assassinated. Durk-
heim was shocked to discover that Marx
established his theory of value in a few
lines and worked up his “research” to
support it, and he “was quick to recognise
the power of Marxism as a myth... .Not
a science,” but “a cry of woe and
anger....” Graham Wallas, applying
psychology to Socialism,’ believes that “a
destruction of slogans is about to come.
Or rather.,. .a deliberate transformation
of slogans, a manipulation of new myths.”
These few. generalisations show the
scope of the work, but would of course
be misleading if taken as summing-up the
attitudes of any of the philosophers men-
tioned. If Mr. Bowie’s survey has a
dominant idea, it is that man is not moved
by reason alone, but by a succession of
myths which are shown to be so in suc-
ceeding ages; and if it puts a question
it is: how is a society grown more and
more conscious of itself to invent myths
and still believe in them? It is almost
amusing to observe the fascination that
the theories of De Maistre have for our
author; a vision of a world of mur-
derers wracked by conscience, whipped
as Macbeth was by his venomous wife:
What thou wouldst highly, that wouldst
thou holily.
Man’s tables are “covered with
corpses”;—
But what animal exterminates man? Only
man himself The blood of animals, of
criminals is not enough to assuage so vast
a collective guilt Nations are seized by a
frenzy, something different from anger or
hate, and drawn to destruction without
knowing whither they are bound.
Horrible and incredible ; but how ex-
plain the world’s two most frightful wars
as a conclusion to the world’s greatest age
of enlightenment?:
Crazy as much of the argument may be,
it is worth pondering in the twentieth cen-
tury. Like lemmings to the sea, it seems,
the human race rushes periodically to per-
dition. The worst misinterpretations of the
Darwinian struggle for existence pale before
the visions of this original and tormented
mind.
Plot and Substance
Jeffrey Dell’s The Hoffman Episode
(Jonathan Cape: Australasian Publishing
Co.) has a superficial resemblance to one
very fine German novel. The similarity
does not rest in what may be called the
substance of a novel —characters ; inter-
pretation of life; style; constructioh—
but in the baser kind of construction, the
plot.
The German novel was Arnold Zweig’s
The Case of Sergeant Grischa, which was
built around the fate of a Russian p.-0.-w.
in the First World War, involving the lives
of a number of superbly animated char-
acters, a clash of wills, and, finally, the
execution —a sort of legal murder —of the
Russian. The Hoffman Episode, set in
Germany after the second war, has an
English colonel—a bureaucrat and a snob
—prepared to sacrifice a man’s life, in
a perfectly correct manner, to expedi-
ency ; an English captain who opposes,
him ; the prisoner, Hoffman, about whose
identity, and concerning whose fate, con-
flicting forces, so to speak, rage; a sinis-
ter German chief-of-police ; a mob ; and
minor characters, including a comic Polish
interpreter and a pair of lovers, an Eng-
lish lieutenant and a German girl.
It is all very neat and clever, and in-
terest is kept sharp to the end. But it is
very slight. There is shrewd observation
of national characteristics, sly humor,
and, alas, humor not so sly—repartee
falling with the irritating click of lines
in a radio-play. Characters lack the
substance of life—of literary life— being,
rather, shrewdly observed types. And
yet—a minor point but a significant one
—not really observed ; that is to say, not
visualised. In both novels there is a
moral; but whereas in The Case of
Sergeant Grischa it is implicit in the whole
novel, in this English book it has a
somewhat incongruous appearance, and
needs to be stated from time to time. It
is mechanical.
For all that, The Hoffman Episode is
a readable novel of the lighter sort, and
is technically well written. The compari-
son with Zweig’s book is chiefly apt as
an illustration of the distance two writers
can travel in opposite directions, start-
ing from the same situation.
Displaced Persons
The Wild Place, by Kathryn Hulme
(Shakespeare Head), is one of the most
moving and interesting books this re-
viewer has ever read. Prospective buyers
should ignore the garish vulgarity of its
jacket, the theme of the contents being
human dignity preserved in spite of
degrading conditions.
Miss Hulme, who won the American
“Atlantic Non-Fiction Award” for this
book, was from 1945 to 1951 Deputy
Director of Wildflecken —“The Wild
Place” —one of the largest camps for
Displaced Persons in Germany. In 1945
its D.P.-population was approximately
20,000 Polish people—mostly ex-slave-
laborers. That is, it was larger in popu-
lation than any such N.S.W. towns as
Maitland or Wollongong at the 1947
census, and U.N.R.R.A. at first could
spare only twelve people to run it.
Overall, the book is not depressing.
The author managed to retain her sense
of humor during her six years of solid
work and emotional strain. Her humor
never became hard or cynical; dealing
with thousands of people, she never lost
her realisation of their individuality or
her compassion for individuals —a
faculty some who lump “all those New
Australians” together might do well to
cultivate. Some of our recent migrants
came from Wildflecken.
One of the most remarkable characters
in a book full of admirable people is
Madame Stanislawa, a Polish Countess
and erstwhile society belle but also, pre-
war, a qualified engineer. Madame had
served her slave-labor sentence in Ravens-
burg concentration-camp—as a forced
prostitute. After liberation she gathered
some forty p.-0.-w. women who had been
similarly used, from Dachau, Buchen-
wald and her own Ravensburg. Deter-
mined to rehabilitate them, she marched
them to Wildflecken; created jobs for
them and cared for them until a farming
community in Illinois sponsored the
whole group, who went to America.
When the first food-parcels containing
luxuries like tinned-meat were received
at the camp only Madame’s women and
a handful of boy scouts could be trusted,
out of the whole nearly-rioting com-
munity, to unpack the parcels without
pilfering for the blackmarket. The chil-
dren seemed unbelievably deft at this
job, until Miss Hulme realised that they,
too, had been slave-laborers, their small
hands accustomed to performing finicky
jobs quickly.
The endless, hopeless cattle-trucks,
bringing 4000 new arrivals at a time
every few days, were a feature of the
first year. Then came repatriation-trains
to Poland. The author accompanied one,
rejoicing at the sight of “her” D.P.s
acquiring new hope and dignity as they
drew near home —and shortly afterwards
Poland was behind the Iron Curtain, and
a few of those repatriates found their
way sadly back to Wildflecken, prefer-
ring its comparative freedom.
In the early days the U.S, Army raided
the camp, following complaints that the
D.P.s were stealing stock from German
farms. Little trace of butchered animals
was found by the secretly sympathetic
camp-officers. A party of highly embar-
rassed soldiers hurriedly withdrew from
a toilet, seeing two ancient shawled ladies
seated there—much later Miss Hulme’s
team-mates were told that the old ladies
were pig-carcasses hastily disguised.
The last half of the book—in many
ways most heartbreaking—describes the
immigration-schemes of the various
countries; the resettlement-camps; the
delays and frustrations and tragedies
especially of those who had to he left
behind. Such a one was Ignatz, a skilled
mechanic and most estimable young man,
who had driven Miss Hulme’s car since
her first days at Wildflecken. By a
series of coincidences and mistakes his
sailing was delayed for over a year, and
when it was due one of his daughters
was found to have newly contracted T.B.
—the family chose to remain together.
There are many references to Australia
and its immigration scheme in the book;
and from the European end we made a
good showing, in spite of the terrified
New Australian who nearly succeeded in
holding up all plans by his description,
in a letter to relatives, of the fearsome
“dragon” which had poked its head out
of his boot one morning. It was merely
a frilled lizard, also scared, but dragon
enough to the Baltic peoples who had no
reptile life at all in their own lands.
N.K.
Russian Ballet
Serge Lifar’s History of Russian Ballet
from Its Origins to the Present Day
translated by Arnold Haskell (Hutchin-
son), is an unexpectedly satisfying per
formance for a dancer. The reader
thinking to find the excited atmosphere
of wild encomium, unbalanced damnation
carelessness of time and place, anc
sugary scandal that always surroundec
Diaghileff’s productions will be surprised
by this clear, terse marshalling of dates
and movements, the result of obviously
profound and exact research back as far
as 1735 ; by excellent selection of details
of significant figures, movements and
changes in direction over this long period
and by the author’s fastidious distaste for
eroticism —on the stage, at any rate, we
are warned that this is a serious blemish
upon a work of art.
Perhaps the earlier parts of this history
gain from the author’s being able to
view it with detachment; in the later
parts he restricts himself strictly to what
has bearing upon actual stage-perform-
ances and the management of the com-
pany—among the pictures in the centre-
section of the book is one that must be
pretty rare of the group on the stage of
the Paris Opera in 1929 when Diaghileff
brought the insane Nijinsky from his
sanatorium to see and be seen, either as
an act of kindness or cruel triumph; but
there is no mention of this ambiguous
matter in the text. And Mr. Lifar en-
counters difficulties of assessment in such
places as where he is remarking upon the
choreography of Balanchine in “The
Prodigal Son”:
“Le Fils Prodigue” was an unparalleled
success, but was it due to the choreography
or the dancing of Lifar, who proved the
great triumph of the evening?
After all, as Mr. Lifar delicately hints,
how would Lifar know?
Russian ballet grew from dancers kept
as part of the establishments of the
nobles, from visits of European dancers,
Italian and French, until the Imperial
School, or Ballet School under the
Frenchman Lande, was formed, with
headquarters in the Winter Palace, in
1752, having for pupils twelve boys and
twelve girls chosen by the Empress Eliza-
beth from the servants’ children. It was
this school which after 200 years flowered
under the genius of Diaghileff and
Fokine into modern Russian ballet; and
if it is true that Russian ballet in the
West died with Diaghileff, it is even more
true that it could not have continued for
long cut off from its source by the Iron
Curtain; and this is the reason why Mr.
Lifar looks somewhat sadly in his last
chapter towards “The Soviet Ballet”; the
old Imperial school, with all its traditions,
still going under the Commissars.
Catherine the Great created the post of
Director of the Imperial Theatres in
1766, to control and bring into order all
theatrical matters, and to supervise all
the theatre-schools of dancing, music,
drama and painting. It was during
Catherine’s reign that these institutions
produced a real bit of Hollywood
romance: an actor, dismissed to separate
o Continued on page 35)


MM
•>•••
liiil
S:
m
m
m
,
Julius Marlow Bold Brogue with notched storm welt and very stout leather
soles. In tan calf priced 96/-. Also without storm welt in black, tan, burgundy calf, 89/-.
Fractionals.
“Comoy’s” Grand Slam,
“the Perfect Pipe,” for a sweet and
smoke. In straight and bent shapes,
at only 60/- each.
“Comoy’s” pipe cleaners
are extra absorbent. Cellophane
72, 4/6.
mm
“Tiki” table model
cigarette lighter is guaranteed for 1 0 years.
70/- each*
“Comoy’s ” wallet shape
tobacco pouch, in English made Morocco
leather. It’s well made and lined with
rubber. 33/6.
i
The Saville Beney
cigarette lighter is engine turned. Is priced
at 50/9 each.
Hi
mm
m
Grosvenor Club
Imperiales Cigars. Pure Havana filler. Pkt.
of four 9/-. Box of 25 56/3.
We’re famous for our quality
Men’s wear and
Accessories
Here’s the right idea for a gift for that favourite man
of yours. A handsome cigarette lighter and case,
or a pipe rack, a box of excellent cigars. And they’re all
Anthony Horderns’ well known quality. See them
in our Ground Floor, George Street, Men’s Department.
w
‘Comoy’s’
rack holds five pipes, is priced 42/-.
The “Hedgehog” pipe cleaner will keep your
free of excessive carbon and it is priced as low as 1/9.
The “Mosda” cigarette case > s chromium plated, will
hold J 4 cigarettes, and has a handy lighter attached. 72/-.
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
A
Horderns
nthony
DUDLEY PARKER EXHIBITION
An exhibition of Dudley Parker’s N.S.W. landscapes is now on
show in our Art Galleries (Fourth Floor). Open until August
26th. Admission free.
MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE) 80951


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 25, 1954
Vol. 75— N0. 3889
The National Australian Newspaper
• "Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
''Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings {opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
BUDGETING UNDER DIFFICULTY
The Federal Budget for 1954-55 is a “make-do” one.
What Treasurer Fadden would like to do has had to
take second place to what defence commitments and
a changing economic outlook have permitted him to
do. Between the date of the last election (May 29)
and Budget-night (August 18) there has -been the
collapse of French resistance in Indo-China and a
world-wide stirring of concern over affairs in South-
East Asia. As a result, Australia is committed to more
defence spending instead of less during the current
year.
At the same time election promises have had to be
honored. Social-security costs go up by an estimated
£l7 million, and though this is but a fraction of the
extra cost implied by Dr. Evatt’s proposal to abolish
the means-test altogether, it is nevertheless a sub-
stantial charge.
With the national income levelling-off, and total
Commonwealth expenditure (including % payments to
the States) up £54 million, the Treasurer’s great
difficulty has been to grant any appreciable tax-relief.
Mr. Menzies, during the last election campaign, said:
The extent of the tax-cuts we can make will be
affected by what this year’s surplus turns out to be,
by the new estimates, by the state of trade and confi-
dence, and by a careful selection of the taxes which
it would do the most good to reduce. That is why we
will consider such large items as income tax, sales
tax, excise, depreciation allowances in the light of
higher replacement costs, and so on. That we will
go to the proper and possible limits in making our
selection and particular decisions, nobody, looking at
the past two years, need doubt.
Whether, in the present Budget, Sir Arthur Fadden
has reduced the taxes “which it would do most good
to reduce” may receive a query from economists.
But the Budget has closely followed an election in
which Dr. Evatt made reckless promises to the great
body of electors ; and, the Government having made
promises of tax-cuts, at this stage it was politically
prudent for cuts not only to be made but to appear
to have been made to the largest possible number of
electors and taxpayers.
Industry undoubtedly needs income-tax relief a
great deal more than individual taxpayers. Skilful
organisation and thrift are not as yet .reaping* their
deserved rewards. And the delay is dangerous. But
one must always keep in mind the possibility of what
rewards they would have received under Dr. Evatt.
It is more than likely that under “Labor” industry
alone would have been expected to finance abolition of
the means-test.
One of the dangerous factors in the present year
will be that there is likely to be a hiatus between avail-
able basic materials and the demand for them because
the men are not -available to produce more. This is
becoming obvious in the building-trades and particu-
larly in metals. There is no poverty. Personal taxation-
rates are the lowest in the sterling area, despite the fact
that the Commonwealth is virtually a Welfare State.
There is room for debate on the present Budget.
But if it has some basis in political expediency, one
should consider what would be the alternative under
“Labor.” There would have been further burdens, a
return to price-control and the growth of an economy
dictated throughout Australia by the kind of condi-
tions which exist in State Government employment.
Communist pressure would have returned in full force
to industry with an extension of the conditions of the
waterside and the N. S. Wales Transport services to
the whole of industry.
Despite the records in spending, the availability
of money to spend, and the great influxes of overseas
capital, 1954-55 is not an easy year for any Treasurer
to look forward to. The industrial position must be
watched in view of the looming dangers in Asia ; and,
much as any Treasurer would be tempted by buoyancy
to make handsome concessions to business, at almost
any time they might have to be taken away and the
economy geared for an approach to war, a change of
line which might create confusion.
At the same time, with prices and wages more or
less stable for the first time in years and some solid
ground temporarily under his feet. Sir Arthur Fadden
has had the means generally to distribute concessions
calculated to relieve both individuals directly and
business less directly through lowering of costs. The
one matter in which further relief might possibly have
been given is in company taxation, which through sheer
buoyancy, promises to provide a total of £25 million
more this year than last year; but the reason that it
has not been touched directly is obvious.
But it is erroneous to treat the relief which has
been given, as some organisations and newspapers have
done, as if its benefits were restricted to those whom it
directly affects. In a buoyant year in which business
should feel the impetus derived from last year’s expan-
sion and population-increase, the Government will
collect about the same total amount of revenue as last
year—£lols million. It proposes to balance the
Budget—a vital necessity in view of fluid world condi-
tions. It intends to reduce personal income-tax collec-
tions by £37 million on last year’s £394 million; but
with buoyant company taxes and Customs and excise
expansion (an extra £lO million) as offsets, the total
tax-collections will be slightly larger than last year,
though less per head.
'Lhe Government has had to budget for at least
£lO million more on the defence votes, and keep its
general finance in such a position that it may readily
have a reserve available in case of urgent need, without
too severe a dislocation of its general arrangements.
It seems improbable that the £2OO million which it
has provided for defence Will prove adequate if certain
developments, which are momentarily expected, take
place in Asia.
The Commonwealth’s social-service expenditure,
to which Mr. Menzies committed himself during the
election campaign, will need another £l7 million beyond
last year’s provision; and capital works like the Snowy
Mountains scheme and other inevitable expansions of
outlay call for an overall increase of a further £lO
million, Which is inescapable.
It is impossible to satisfy everybody. And in a
politically minded country with universal education
every man is apt to have his own economic plan. Yet
the ordinary citizen should be well satisfied with what
the Government proposes* more especially since it
obviously has prepared for the worst, and the benefits
which it has conceded may work out better in reality
than on paper.
Not So Block
Although the last annual report of the Joint Coal
Board warned that the New South Wales coal industry
was faced with the prospect of a static market —
possibly even a shrinking one—in the next few years,
there is no reason why this should be taken as a kind
of death-sentence on the industry. The board was not
wearing a black cap; it was merely dropping a hint to
all concerned that it was time they donned their
considering-caps. It warned the industry that the extent
to which it could hold its markets would depend, on
the degree to which it could reduce its prices and costs ;
fundamentally this boiled down to a question of
technical efficiency—the application of modern mining
methods, combined with mechanisation.
The obvious fact that the New South Wales mines
have lost the greater portion of their once-profitable
trade with the other States —partly through the develop-
ment of local coal-deposits and partly through the
competition of oil-fuels —has perhaps led to a little
more pessimism towards the future of coal than is
justified by experience in other lands. The advance
of oil to pre-eminence has not been accompanied by a
decline in the use of coal, either on a world basis or in
individual countries. World production of oil has
trebled since the 1930’5, but instead of falling Under
the impact of this competition coal-production has
risen by 25 per cent. Consumption of oil in the United
States just before the war amounted to 150 million
tcfos. By 1952 this had increased to 398 million tons,
but, despite this, coal-production rose during the period
from 398 million tons to 451 million tons. It seems that
coal and oil have solved the problem of peaceful co-
existence, now being pondered over by the world’s
diplomats.
There is no reason to believe that the pattern in
Australia will be any different from that elsewhere.
The current oil- and uranium-fever has contributed
to the feeling that coal is on tj?e way out, but it should
be remembered that Britain and America, both of which
are well advanced with the building of experimental
atomic-power plants, do not share the feeling. Still,
the force of the Coal Board warning remains. Costs
must be reduced.
It was in the light of this that the Coal Industry
Tribunal, Mr. Gallagher, considered miners’ and mine-
owners’ applications for a new award. The
claimed a wage-increase of £2 a week; a 20 per cent,
increase for contract-miners and an additional £5 a
week for miners working on the mechanical extraction
of pillar-coal. They also sought a reduction of the
working-week to 35 hours. The proprietors asked for
a reduction in annual-leave and sick-leave periods and
variations in the qualifications for industrial benefits.
The tribunal rejected all these applications, saying
of the miners’ claims that the reduction of working-
hours and a general increase in wages would have a
serious effect on the price of coal, at a time when the
preservation of the industry depended on the price
being reduced:
Full mechanisation of mines would result in
cheaper and better fuel, but If the price was forced
up, a large section of the industry would almost
certainly face ruination, with widespread unemploy-
ment. Full mechanisation required that the coal in
pillars, as well as that in solids, should be extracted
with machinery, as far as strict compliance with
proper safety standards would permit.
As an incentive towards increased production he
awarded higher attendance-bonuses to all coalmining
employees, provided that the Miners’ Federation
agreed not to oppose the mechanical extraction of
pillar-coal. The increases ranged up to 15s. a pay at
all mines, with extra loadings of 255. a pay at mines
where mechanical extraction of pillars was in operation.
The immediate reception given the award by the
Miners’ Federation was rather sour; the executive
prophesied that it would “inevitably increase industrial
unrest” (they should know!) and that their members
would now have to intensify their activities around
the margins-issue. The executive said that it would
defer its decision whether to accept Mr. Gallagher’s
offer on mechanical extraction of pillar-coal “until
reports on the safety, health and stowage aspects of the
question had been dealt with.”
This comment was in line with the federation’s
past policy. The safety and health aspects
have been investigated and reported upon by many
experts in the past 10 years, and it has been their
unanimous opinion that there is no substance for the
miners’ alleged fears. In 1948 the Coal Board invited
three experts—two British and one American—to
report on the subject. They reported that it was
essential, both from a safety viewpoint and for the
successful recovery of the coal, that mechanical means
should be employed.
More recently the federation has tied-up the
question of mechanisation with that of stowage—the
refilling of mined-out space with rock. The board’s
opinion on this is that “although the two may have a
relationship in particular instances, there is absolutely
no reason why they should not be divorced in general.”
Conferences have been held, committees formed and
finance made available to carry out experimental
projects on stowage, but the federation has been non-
co-operative. Says the board’s 1953 report: “the
sole obstacle to practical work on stowage proposals
is the attitude of the Miners’ Federation.”
On Thursday, however, it was announced that the
triennial national convention of the federation had
unanimously agreed to the mechanical extraction of
pillars and to the acceptance of the stowage-proposals
previously rejected ; the resolution is to be submitted
for approval at aggregate meetings on all coalfields. To
what extent this change of front is due to an inrush
©i commonsense and to what extent to the imminence
of federation-elections making direct action inexpedient
only time will tell.
In its earlier statement the executive had com-
plained that “it is openly admitted that the award has
as its purpose a reduction in costs” as though that were
something of which the tribunal should be ashamed
and which the federation should resist. Reduction in
costs does not imply a reduction in the earnings of
the miners ; on the contrary the bonus-provisions will
enable them to earn more. But the greater ease and
speed with which the pillar-coal can be won will
ultimately benefit not only the coal-industry, but all
the industries depending upon it.
Study in Degeneration
“D.E.”: The "Labor” party that was began pledged
to the cause of the common man. It sought, as it said,
to remove the fetters clapped on his body and soul by
sweaters, by Landlord, Capital, Privilege, Booze; for
he had nothing but chains to lose. No fence it would
dodge, no pitfall shirk, that stood in the way of the
Right to Work. One Man, One Job its inflexible rule,
Pooh-Bahs no longer would play the fool. The
swindler, scooping it up ii| sacks, would get it where
turkeys get the axe ; the Trade would suffer a stunning
fall; the Second Chambers would vanish, all; in other
respects the squatter would pay, and the bookie would
have to call it a day—for, as Goldsmith sang (or was
it Gray?), “where wealth accumulates men decay.”
Compare the party’s present and past! When
into the ring its hat it cast its claims were modest; its
aims were vast. It yearned and strove, in its ardent
youth, to make this a freeman’s land, in truth —saw it
the home (in imagination) of a “self-reliant,
enlightened” nation. Though payment of members
must be faced, it would once and for all be strictly
based on the living-wage principle. Pay was then
four-hundred a year for the Federal men and half (or
less) for Assembly blokes. For Pat Hills doubtless a
theme for jokes: Pat, Lord Mayor and member, too,
• with nearly six-hundred a month for screw, and a
great deal more if you add his “perks.” Pat, shop-
steward on numerous works ; expected, young Paddy,
to wag his jaw at breaches of “Labor” and union
law: the Right to Work, of a surety, and (yes!) One
Man One Billet, no more, no less —now to the candid
of either camp, in Paddy’s person a brazen ramp.
The Right to Work is in practice confined to
, members of unions. Those of a mind to resist, well
knowing that part of the fee will go to the Corns or
the A.L.P. are pbliged to accept the shattering fact,
being conscripts under a “Labor” Act. The Right to
Ride is itself denied when union bosses or mobs decide
to sprag the wheels of our tram or bus; and to hell
with the annual loss —and us! And, in orders issued
to wives and mothers, sisters and cousins and aunts and
others, Misther O’Dea will be “afther” stopping (in
Sydney, at least) their Saturday shopping. Already,
by way of a “Labor” guerdon to other unions, they’re
beasts of'burden —excepting the one who can drive to
her door. It’s “Labor’s” new fashion to punish the
poor.
What a mess of its “principles” “Labor” has made!
It crawled to the Commos ; it crawls to the Traije. The
Press it attempted to stifle, and clubs are now to be
hit—they compete with the pubs. Upper Houses
remain, and Our Joe’s little lot get ten times as much
as old Proputty got. The bookie one sees on a pedestal
set, for “the good Labor bloke” must decidedly bet.
as well as (stout fellow!) “investing” in crates of
tickets in “Labor’s” five lottery States. But just here a
difficult problem arises. There are so many Govern-
ments offering prizes and wrangling so stormily, one
with another (no stranger hates stranger as brother
hates brother), that each may inflict on us pay-office
pickets to see that we take its particular tickets.
McGowen was rugged, but men who knew Jim
would cheerfully, gladly, swap Cahill for him. And
what a decline, how appalling, good Lord, from Watson
to Evatt. from Fisher to Ward!


PSITTACOSIS
“What about the old-age pensioner? What about the old-age pensioner? What about..."


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Might-have-been Treasurer
On Budget-night Dr. Evatt was absent
from Canberra, his attention focused on
handwriting and literary style rather than
on figures and finance. It therefore fell
to Mr. Calwell to deliver “Labor’s” first
comments on the Federal Budget. Ever
since the death of Mr. Chifley in 1951
Calwell has regarded himself as the
financial wizard of the “Labor” party.
In private he may have held the view even
longer, but while his former chief was
alive he made no public claims to the
title. This time last year he was con-
fidently expecting that when the time
came for the 1954 Budget to be brought
down it would be his own mellifluous
voice instead of the gravel-throated tones
of Sir Arthur Fadden that would present
it to a packed House.
Possibly he felt a little less eager for
the post after Evatt delivered his promise-
them-the-world policy-speech in May, but
if so he covered it up pretty well, and
throughout the election campaign vied
with his leader in proclaiming the prac-
ticability of the Evatt proposals. At the
same time he must have drawn some con-
solation in defeat from the knowledge
that he would not have the responsibility
of finding the money to finance them.
Instead, he found himself last Wednesday
listening to the fifth Fadden Budget, the
third in succession to extend tax-
reductions.
Calwell didn’t wait until the speech
was over to let the Australian people
know the theme of his criticism ; with the
aid of his microphone he managed to
punctuate the Treasurer’s speech with a
recurring chant “And nothing for the
pensioners.”
In a later statement he foretold that
the Budget would be “bitterly resented by
a shocked and outraged public”; it- was
a fraudulent document, “this starve-the-
pensioner Budget; this second edition of
the Horror Budget.” Amplifying his
radio-chant, he said:
Not a penny for old-age pensioners
who have no other income but their pen-
sions and who constitute 80 per cent, of
all pensioners.
It is true that the Budget did not in-
crease the pension-rate, although it did,
in accordance with Menzies’s election
promise, ease the means-test. But Cal-
well should be the last man to level that
criticism at the Government. His con-
cern now is for those old folk who have
nothing hut their pension. Three months
ago he vyas prepared to jeopardise what
little security they had by embarking on
an inflationary programme to abolish the
means-test. This hypocrisy is emphasised
by another Calwellian statement on the
Budget, contrasting the difference in the
tax-cut savings for the basic-wage earner
and the man on £15,000 a year. In May
Calwell was promising to supplement the
latter’s £15,000, on his 65th birthday, by
a full life-pension, free of means-test.
Wind Out of Asia
The storm which is blowing down from
Asia is felt as yet only in a series of
gusts, but some of them at least shake
the windows of Australia.
In India the last tiny European-ruled
settlements, Portuguese and French, are
being absorbed, and the Indian Press
last week was almost as scornful of
the new Seato defence-plan as was
Moscow. Official organs of the Indian
Government sneer that the only country
not of European origin which is likely to
be included in the defence alliance will
be Siam. Pakistan, while taking part in
the Baguio meeting on September 6, has
not bound itself to join in any pact.
The close of the Hague conference put
the finishing-touch to the severance of
Indonesia from the Netherlands. And
the handing-over of all air facilities in
Indonesia by the Dutch air interests swept
the islands clean of the Netherlands
influence. Indonesia becomes entirely
Asian save for Western New Guinea,
and this, with an eye on its oil, the Indo-
nesians are determined to get. They have
made it plain that the fact that they have
remitted the question to U.N.O. doesn’t
mean that they are prepared to abide by
any decision of the General Assembly.
They are out to have the area, but they
want U.N.O. to find a peaceful solu-
tion. In their attitude there is, of course,
an inference that there may be a solution
which need not be peaceful.
The Indonesian spokesman last week
claimed that friendship between Indo-
nesia and Australia was a primary con-
dition of Australian security. He asked
whether' Australia has already forgotten
the lesson of World War 11, when
“Holland failed to defend Indonesia so
that Australia was threatened directly
from Japan.”
Australia has scarcely forgotten the
lessons of World War 11, which are that
the main invasion-route against the vkal
parts of Australia do not lie via Indo-
nesia, but via New Guinea and the chain
of islands down the Commonwealth’s
east coast. And it must continue firmly
to be this country’s policy that no foreign
Power which is likely to fall into Com-
munist hands shall be allowed to attain
a position from which it can step straight
on to the Commonwealth’s defensive
doorstep in New Guinea.
The other Asian issues of the week
centred mainly round Formosa, opposite
which island Chinese forces are said to
be poised 100,000-strong for invasion.
Since Formosa is a very Gibraltar of an
island, and there is 100 miles of water
to cross to get at it, its invasion would
not at any time be an easy job. But
under present conditions, especially if
the Chinese Nationalists still have as
sizeable and well-trained a force as they
are supposed to have in Formosa, it
could be an impossible one.
General Eisenhower has announced
that his orders issued to the United States
Navy in 1953 to defend Formosa in the
event of attack are still in force. And
with the First and Seventh Fleets in
Formosan waters and showing the flag
right up to the Chinese coast it must be
obvious to* Peking that the United States
means business.
The Western nations cannot, and will
not, sacrifice Formosa. It is a base vital
to the safeguarding of the Philippines;
Japan and all the trade-routes of the
Western Pacific north of the Equator.
It is difficult to believe in the circum-
stances that Communist China, has any
intention of attacking Formosa unless its
leaders are bent deliberately on starting
a world war.
Get Thee io an Anthill!
A minor mystery of the Federal Budget
which puzzled most people not connected
with the wine-industry was the reduction
of 30s. a gallon in the excise on brandy.
It was the only excise - reduction
announced, and the question was
naturally asked why brandy-sippers
should be singled-out for special treat-
ment while wine-bibbers, gin- and whisky-
tipplers and beer-soaks were ignored.
• There’s one man in the South Aus-
tralian Parliament who probably thinks
he knows the answer. A fortnight before
the Federal Treasurer presented his
Budget, Mr. Quirke, Independent
member for Stanley, told the Adelaide
Assembly quite a lot about the wine
industry and the excise on brandy.
Describing Sir Arthur Fadden as “the
prime destroyer of the wine industry,” he
suggested that a proper fate for the Trea-
surer was that the grape-growers “should
peg him down to an anthill.” Briefly,
his story ran like this;
In 1950-51 the duty per proof-gallon of
brandy was 535. 6d. That returned
£1,432,000 in revenue for 535,000 proof-
gallons of brandy sold In 1951-52 the
duty remained at 535. 6d. for part of the
year and then in one fell swoop was in-
creased to 84s. 6d, Notwithstanding that
increase, 'the revenue was only slightly
greater, and sales fell from 535,000 gallons
to 426,000 gallons. It still remained at
84s. 6d. in 1952-53, when the revenue col-
lected was £1,228,000, and the brandy sales
fell to 290,000 gallons. There was no extra
revenue, but the brandy-trade of Australia
was destroyed In 11 months of 1953-54,
at the lower duty of 635. 6d., brandy sales
amounted to 343,000 gallons... .The duty
early in 1942 was 265. a gallon The best
thing to do in the Interests of the trade
is to put the duty back to 265., so that
brandy can be sold at 15s. or 12s. a bottle,
instead of at 195., with much of the 19s.
duty.
The latest reduction in excise won’t
bring the figure back to 265,, but at
33 s. 6d. it should be low enough to save
the grapes from rotting on the vine and
Sir Artie from perishing on an anthill.
Much has been written about lobbying
in Canberra, but the apparent success of
the Quirke tactics will probably revolu-
tionise the technique. Federal Trea-
surers, to be in any way successful, have
to develop pretty thick hides, but even
a rhinoceros would probably feel a trifle
uncomfortable if pegged for any length
of time to an anthill,
Japan in Jeopardy
A problem which has not had its share
of the spotlight is the economic reces-
sion of Japan, which is drifting into a
serious position.
The Japanese islands, which, before the
war, had a population of 78 million, now
have one of 87 million, which is growing
by about three million a year, with no
outlet for expansion. Even before the
war the agricultural possibilities of the
country had been stretched to their limit
to provide food. Hillsides were labori-
ously terraced, backyards cultivated right
under village windows. The drains be-
side the roadsides carried their quota of
growing rice or other grain, and every
leaf which was not eatable was saved to
become fertiliser. But Japan even then
had to import huge quantities of food.
Its only method of paying for this food
was through the sale abroad of manu-
factured goods. This entailed further
import of raw materials, which in turn
had to be paid for.
If the position then was bad, today it
is becoming desperate. In a high-priced
world Western countries have been
forced to erect high tariff-walls against
Japanese products manufactured under
low labor-costs. The natural markets of
Japan, those of China and South-East
Asia:, have changed vastly. Indo-China,
which could give its food in return for
manufactures, is in turmoil. Though there
is more trade going to and from Com-
munist China than is generally under-
stood, the main market is closed and
will remain so. In the present political
position there can be no free access to the
mainland. The Tokyo Government is in
the midst of differences about reparations
with Indonesia, Burma and the Philip-
pines. And it is facing all its troubles
while at the same time trying to re-
establish an economic system which will
work in its circumstances and a leader-
ship which can lead.
One of the greatest mistakes made by
Japan’s conquerors was to destroy much
that was vital in its commercial struc-
ture under the belief that they were
“democratising” the country, whereas all
they were doing was to accustom it to
live under a foreign military dictatorship
which poured money into it without
sufficient quid pro quo and without any
objective which could effect permanent
good and produce stability.
Finally, the end of the Korean war
has been a bitter blow to Japanese
economy. The war earned for Japanese
industry huge foreign credits, but these
have dwindled to next to nothing. And,
unfortunately, while this money was being
earned, the Japanese invested the
money in non-reproductive luxury im-
, ports which yielded retailers high profits.
If American forces should leave alto-
gether and the* country should lose all
the invisible imports gained through their
spending, the position would become
parlous indeed.
The Japanese Government seems to
pin its faith mainly at present on the
remedy of persuading other countries to
lower tariff-walls —its other plans are
merely accessory to and cover for this
crucial idea. American economists
prescribe some austerity and lean living
as a cure. This expedient does not appeal
to those due to take the medicine. They
have had too much austerity.
It is a position which Australia and
other adjacent countries will need to
look squarely in the face. How long
will the Japanese continue to look out
on countries with a nominal forty-hour
week, luxury standards such as the world
has never seen before, walled off from
Asiatic competition by means of huge
tariffs?
This position is one of the strongest
talking-points the Communists have ; and
they are losing no chance of talking
about it.
Tea Teaser
“Mugga Way”: The wrangle between
State prices officials, who say that stocks
of tea bought at the old price are crowd-
ing the merchants’ shelves, and the
retailers, who assert that the public rush
on the tea cupboards has left them bare,
was to be expected in view of the way
the announcement of the higher whole-
sale price was made. Only thing certain
seems to be that the public will suffer
one way or the other. The more serious
aspect of the whole situation is the
abnormal and utterly unjustified secrecy
which has surrounded the subject of tea
imports and distribution over several
years. The price of tea may or may not
be political dynamite, demanding the
payment of a large but fluctuating sub-
sidy- by Government (which merely
means taxpayers, big and little), but
there is surely no justification for the
furtive evasions of officialdom designed
to conceal both the actual prices paid
overseas and the real amount of the Aus-
tralian subsidy per pound.
Admittedly world prices are rising, and
it may be true that the output is less
than world demand—although the expen-
sive publicity-campaign in progress in the
U.S. by tea interests suggests that as
much tea as possible is being held for
those markets prepared to pay high
prices. But should any Australian Gov-
ernment in these days remain the sole
importing authority for tea, and should
it make heavy calls on all taxpayers for
the purpose of a subsidy presumably
first introduced to keep war-time living
costs down and since retained to prevent
political unpopularity? If the Tea Im-
portation Board was abolished, and the
subsidy removed, would we pay much
more for our tea? It seems at least
possible that the revival *of competition
between brands would take care of prices,
and that those people who wanted
quality and were prepared to pay for it
would be able to get it in place of the
present uniform and medium grade now
provided through the expensive and
multi-handling methods required by the
board.
Perhaps no Government has been pre-
pared to face this issue, or perhaps the
board has painted an alarming picture
of political possibilities. The Minister
for Customs said last week, apparently
with satisfaction, that when the pending
consequential adjustments were made to
the retail price, the price of tea in Aus-
tralia would still be considerably lower
than in other English-speaking countries.
If that is the argument, why not subsi-
dise coffee and beer and lolly-water?
Who Wrote Document J?
Dr. Evatt has added himself to the
learned counsel appearing before the
Petrov Commission. He appears for his
private secretary, Mr. A. J, Dalziel, and
his assistant-secretary, Mr. Albert
Grundeman.
Most of the evidence during the week
centred round the authorship of the 37-
page Document J, described T>y Mr.
Windeyer, Q.C., as a farrago of fact,
falsity and filth, which the Petrovs allege
to have been written by Lockwood within
the Soviet Union Embassy at Canberra
on Embassy typewriters.
The gist of Dr. Evatt’s viewpoint was shown
by a short passage between himself and the
commissioners during which, on August 20,
the chairman, Mr. Justice Owen, asked
Detective-Inspector Rogers, the official hand-
writing and typewriting expert of the commis-
sion, tcTmake a report on whether Document J
was typed by one person or more than one
person. Dr. Evatt asked that the inspector be
asked to say, if possible, who actually typed
the document.
Mr. Justice Owen commented that he had an
impression that Dr, Evatt was saying that
Fergan O’Sullivan, his former press-secretary,
typed portion of the document, to which the
Doctor replied that “if Lockwood did not type
it it was not his duty to say who typed it
because the very basis of the case in relation
to Document J was destroyed.” Mr. Justice
Ligertwood said:
“I do not know whether you have seen
the Moscow letters. There is a request that
certain information should be obtained
and that O’Sullivan should obtain it. Now
we have that document which contains that
very information and there is evidence that
Lockwood prepared thfe document.”
Dr. Evatt said: “I want to show that that
evidence is untrue.” Mr. Justice Ligertwood
then said, “If someone else did actually pre-
pare it, it is just as important to us as if Lock-
wood prepared it.” To which Dr. Evatt replied
that “if it was done for the purpose of a local
political conspiracy it is a different thing,”
adding: “That is our case on Document J.”
Later he asserted that if the document was
not typed by Lockwood the question would
arise whether A, B or C typed it and that that
would be enough for his purpose:
“It shows a conspiracy to injure members
of my staff mentioned in Document J.”
The evidence-in-chief on the writing of the
document came from Mrs. Petrov in Melbourne
on July 8. She swore that she “saw the docu-
ment on several occasions while it was being
typed in her husband’s —the consular —room at
the Soviet Embassy, and that Mr. Lockwood
was typing it.” She left the witness-box and
picked out Lockwood in court.
She said that she had seen him typing it on
three days, possibly for 12 or 15 hours, but
it was difficult to calculate. It was at the end
of April or the beginning of May, 1953, she
thought, while her husband was in hospital.
When the typing was finished, she swore,
Antonov, the Tass representative, who was pre-
sent, gave Lockwood money for travelling-
expenses from Sydney to Canberra and “then
he gave him £3O when he finished the work
and several bottles of brandy, I think.
[Lockwood denied receiving the gifts.] The
original of the statement (she said) was sent
to Moscow, the copy retained in Canberra.
Lockwood, put into the box next day, was
asked whether he had written Document J. He
asked whether he could look through it. He
then refused to answer the question whether
he had written it. The internal evidence in the
document showed that it was typed after May
20, 1953, before June 2, and that part of it
was typed on May 25 because of a reference
to “today’s paper” (May 25, 1953). Internal
evidence in that part which gave the sources
“provided clues to the identity of the writer.
It was established that Lockwood stayed at
the Kingston Hotel, Canberra, between May
22 and May 25, 1953—he signed the register,
and the handwriting-expert, Detective-Inspector
Rogers, identified his signature from
authenticated documents.
Fergan O’Sullivan, Dr. Evatt’s former press-
secretary, swore that he wrote no part of Docu-
ment J. He admitted having gone to the
Kingston Hotel, he thought somewhere about
lunch-hour, with Grundeman and there having
had some drinks with Lockwood, whom they met
in the bar. Grundeman this week was clear
that the date was May 23. He swore that u
was late in the afternoon, that he left O’Sullivan
and Lockwood together and was driven to
the place where he was staying, the house or
one McDonell, a Commonwealth car-driver at
Ainslie, about four miles away on the other
side of Canberra. While he and the motor-
driver were having dinner O’Sullivan and LocK-
wood arrived looking for a meal, and after they
(i Continued on next page)


had had it O’Sullivan drove Lockwood, himself
and the motor-driver’s wife back to the King-
ston Hotel and went off, saying he was going to
a film-show—O’Sullivan admitted in evidence
that he went to a Press show of films at the
Soviet Embassy.
The motor-driver and his wife believed that
the meetings took place on the following day,
when Grundeman swore that he believed he
was out shooting with a friend. No witness
was found able to explain the circumstances
of a docket issued for a Commonwealth car
which, on May 24, was ordered by Grundeman,
signed for by the driver with whom he was
staying. The car apparently occupied
hours making a journey from the Kurrajong
Hotel to Parliament House and thence to Dr.
Evatt’s house —he was away at the Coronation
—.and back to the Kurrajong—a total journey
of under four miles.
Lockwood on August 19 appeared on sub-
poena in Sydney, and, after being allowed to
read Document J for two hours, was asked
again by Mr. Windeyer: “Are you the author
of any part of Document J?”
He replied:
“In view of the crisis that has arisen, and
my personal co'ncern for injustice to people
like Dalziel [i.e., Dr. Evatt’s private sec-
retary] and Grundeman [the assistant
private secretary], I must refuse to answer
questions.”
Mr. Justice Owen then repeated the question,
and Lockwood said that he declined to answer
on the ground that he asked for a fair trial
and not trial by inquisition. In reply to Dr.
Evatt, however, he said that he had no recol-
lection of having written p. 35 of the document,
which deals, apparently, with local political
affairs. , , ,
He admitted next day, however, that he had
done some typing in the Embassy in the pre-
sence of Antonov when he visited Canberra
in ■ May. He said that there was material
in Document J which was at least strongly
similar to the material that he had supplied
to Antonov in the Soviet Embassy, but there
was “no part of J that has been directly
typed by me, although it incorporates material
which I supplied to Antonov.... a lot of
the material which I gave to Antonov has
been retyped by someone and there have been
omissions, recasting and the addition of other
material.” ..
He attributed his decision to answer questions
next day to the same reason which he had
given for not answering them on the previous
day—“j felt it would be doing a grave injustice
to innocent people if I continued my silence.
And he asked to be allowed to take legal advice
before he gave further answers. The r comn yf’
sion adjourned over Monday to allow Inspecto
Rogers to examine Document J and specimens
of the typing and writing of Lockwood and
O’Sullivan, and counsel for Dalziel, Grunde
man, Lockwood and O Sullivan to ex
Document J, which was made available to them
in terms of strict confidence to be read in the
presence of the commission s secretaiy,
Herde.
POLITICAL POINTS
Cahill’s Parliament opens today, but
won’t get down to serious business until
next Tuesday. The Pubs and Clubs Bill,
concerning which a bitter fight is going
on behind the scenes in the “Labor”
party, will probably be the liveliest sub-
ject of the session, with the Smutty Litera-
ture Bill a good runner-up.
The move to control obscene publica-
tions is part of an Australia-wide move-
ment. Three States have already passed
legislation, so the Cahills will have no
excuse for permitting doubts as to their
good faith or suspicions that their object
is political censorship. The aim should
be to copy the best features of the Acts
now in force in other States, not their
worst.
• •
Anyone who took a serious interest in
the last Federal election campaign must
have been startled by the irresponsible
promises, of the leader of the Opposition
forces. The present Government is to be
congratulated on not having been tricked
into promising the body of taxpayers and
voters more than it has done. As it is, it
has honored its election promises at a
cost of £4O million during the current
year—tax-cuts of £23 million and added
National Welfare costs of £l7 million.
Altogether, expenditure, including in-
creased defence (obligations, is put at
£54.4 million higher than last year.
Revenue is expected to be down a frac-
tion. In 1953-54 there was a surplus of
£56 million. A nominal surplus is bud-
geted for this year.
• •
Add to the collection of names which
a Federal member may not be called,
“The great Uriah Keep.” Caller, R. C.
Wheeler; called, A. D. Fraser. Dis-
allowed by the Speaker and withdrawn
• •
K. J, Morris, new Liberal leader in
the Queensland Assembly, is starting off
full of confidence in his party’s chances
for the 1956 election. He claims that
“Labor” won the last election on a
minority-vote through gerrymandered
electorates, and that, given the same
number of votes next time, the Liberal-
Country-party partnership would win. He
bases this hope on the movement of
population between the two elections.
*
After yet another 11-all tie in the
voting for N. S. Wales Liberal leadership
Murray Robson defeated P. H. Morton
12-10, R. W. Askin having stood down
in his favor. Askin thereupon offered to
resign the deputy-leadership to one of
the Morton group if it would contribute
to party unity; he was asked to continue
in the job.
The wrangling which led to the resig-
nation of Treatt and which accompanied
the election of his successor has done
the Liberal cause a lot of harm. The
party’s task now is to get down to work
behind its new leader. Robson has un-
doubted qualities of leadership, and the
Libs, together with the Country party,
have about 18 months in which, to show
the electors that they have the material
to provide N. S. Wales with a sane and
stable Government.
The task should not be impossible.
After all, a people that can put up with
the McKeU-McGrarr-Cahill dynasty
for 13 years can hardly be accused of
being too choosy.
• •
In the Reps the Prime Minister told
E. J. Ward that £431,159 had so far
been obtained from the sale of pre-war
Japanese assets in Australia, but he
admitted that progress in the disposal of
assets in ex-enemy and neutral countries
had not been satisfactory, and that the
Jap Government had “not been en-
tirely helpful in the matter.” Remaining
assets in Australia may realise about
£290,000, but they probably will not per-
mit any further distribution to the ex-
p.-0.-w. or the dependants of those who
died in captivity, as the £32 per head
already distributed was made possible
by a Treasury advance against the then-
unsold assets. However, the Burma-rail-
way sale has yielded £75,396 sterling, and
some additional amounts may come
later.
After the M.L.A. for Albany had com-
plained to Westralian Premier Hawke
that the photograph of Albany in a semi-
official booklet showed the town as it
looked 30 years ago another member
asked the Premier “when the photograph
of himself, appearing in the publication,
was taken.” Hawke replied that he did
not know, but “I frankly admit that it is a
very flattering photograph.”
• •
A few months ago Premier Gair was
complaining that industries in other
States were robbing Queensland of
skilled tradesmen. Walkers, of Mary-
borough, are making am effort to
redress the balance; they’ve sent scouts
to Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide to
look for boilermakers and shipwrights
to bring their work-force up to full
strength. But they are not accusing any-
one of bodysnatching ; the vacancies are
a legacy of the four-months’ strike
which paralysed the town and nearly
sent Walkers out of business. When it
was all over they found that many trades-
men had left the town and taken jobs
elsewhere.
o •
The Federal Government has pru-
dently used last year’s £56 million surplus
to redeem portion of the national debt.
It has come in for Press criticism by
reason of the fact that it is spending £lO4
million this year on public works out of
revenue. Included in this estimate is £3O
million for war-service homes, £l4 million
for the Snowy Mountains project and
£27 million for the post-office. One might
CONDUCTED TOUR
query the value that the Commonwealth
Government —or any other Government
these days —gets in return for the money
it spends on public works, but there are
not many works undertaken by the Com-
monwealth which are not needed badly
enough. One of the questionable items
is construction of ships, which is down
for £3.3 million this year. About £2O
million remains to be spent under the
ship-construction programme. The
Government itself can’t be too happy
about this item. It has tried —in vain
to dispose of its shipping line.
• •
Murray Robson says that under
“Labor” the N. S. Wales Parliament is
a tied House—tied to the breweries.
• •
In phrases not unfamiliar over the
decades, the Minister for Shipping and
Transport, Senator McLeay, says that
Tasmania is wholly dependent on a
regular and orderly shipping service, and
that it is imperative that all available
goods for export should be accom-
modated. But gently, gently! This
doesn’t mean regular and orderly shipping
now or tomorrow. It means that an
officer of the Shipping Board has been
sent to spend two or three months in
Tassie to make “a 'special survey of
requirements and to recommend the
number and type of ships necessary to
transport all the goods available for over-
seas and inter-State shipment.”
• •
While “not advocating the abolition of
the White Australia policy, but an exam-
ination of it,” McColm, Liberal M.H.R.
for Bowman (Q.), wants to see a quota-
system tried out. He told the Reps that
“possibly there are quite a lot of
educated, trained or skilled men who
would want to come here, and I would
not object to their coming.” The appar-
ent condescension in this statement was
probably unintentional, but that is not
the main thing wrong with it. The types
to which McColm refers are the very
ones which Asia would not wish to lose.
What is the sense of training Asian
students here under the Colombo plan,
ostensibly to fit them tp help develop
their own countries, if they are then to
stay on, or return here, as citizens?
There is more harm done to the White
Australia principle by those who feel the
urge to apologise for it than by those
who attack it outright.
• •
Menzies, speakirig on a motion by
Allan Fraser that a Melbourne “Herald”
reference to W. C. Wentworth be referred
to the Committee of Privileges:
Is it a breach of privilege to publish a
cartoon of me exhibiting 15 chins, instead
of two, and with two bushy eyebrows? Is
it a breach of privilege of this House for
a newspaper to depict my friend, the
Deputy-Leader of the Opposition, Mr. A. A.
Calwell, in the capacity of a cockatoo?
Mr. Calwell knows that, by doing that,
the newspapers rapidly make him Leader
of the Opposition, and that by doing that
they maintain me in office for quite a long
time.
Smith, Brown, Jones and Robinson
may be the most common names in
ordinary walks of life, but in New South
Wales Parliamentary circles they’re not
in the race with the Cahills. In the
Assembly there are, in addition to Premier
James Joseph, the member for Young,
Frederick Joseph, and the member for
Armidale, James Edward. The only
Legislative Council representative of the
clan is Cyril Joseph, but he looks like
having a running-mate before long, as
C. A. F. Cahill is one of the “Labor”
nominees for the current batch of
vacancies. As a Cahill the new man is
rather unique; he’s neither a James nor
a Joseph.
• * •
In 1953-54 the national income reached
£3776 million, a rise of 5 per cent. The
increase was smaller than in the previous
year, but it was highly significant because
it was almost entirely the result of an
increase in national output rather than
of an increase in prices. Prices were
almost stable during the year, and
employment was at record high levels.
Thus the Government was justified in
proclaiming its belief that the dominant
tone of the economy was of high and
sustained activity. Most classes of per-
sonal and company income showed an
increase. Wage- and salary-incomes, as
well as those classified as “business and
professional,” rose by about 6 per cent.
Private investment went up to £7OO
million, compared with £657 million in
1952-53.
• •
Exchange of pleasantries between the
Treasurer and the would-be Treasurer on
Budget-night:
Fadden (after announcing his plan for a
committee under the chairmanship of Alan
Hulme, M.H.R. for Petrie, to consider
aspects of depreciation of manufacturing-
plant): The other members will be four
men engaged respectively in manufacturing,
commerce, primary industry and account-
ancy.
Calwell: Are you working yourself on
to it?
Fadden: I’d pretty soon depreciate you.
• m
“Mugga Way”: It still seems a little
uncertain who are to pack their bags
for Baguio and the initial conference on
collective security for South-East Asia.
Prime Minister Menzies is willing to go,
although his absence might upset the
current Parliamentary sessional plans, but
he seems to think that the show will be
on a Foreign Ministers’ level, in which
case R. G. Casey will set out for the
Philippines. Talks are due to start on
September 6, so the decision had better
be made soon.
• •
Twelve months ago Alderman Roberts,
Lord Mayor of Brisbane and M.L.A. for
Nundah in the Queensland Parliament,
resigned from the “Labor” party after
its executive had instructed aldermen to
rescind a salary-increase they had voted
themselves. He hais since been described
as an Independent both in the Assembly
and on the City Council, but he recently
applied for readmission to the A.L.P.
Last week the central executive turned
down his application by 41 votes to 6.
From Molongloside:
Dr. Evatt will have a great deal of explaining
to do to the party to satisfy it that his appear-
ance before the Petrov Commission in the
interests of his private secretary and baggage-
clerk was more important than his leadership
of the Budget debate. And some of his fol-
lowers are asking loudly why, when he could
have consulted the party on Thursday, he
waited till Monday to tell it in £2OO-worth
of urgent wires. That the country pays
the Doctor a handsome salary to lead the
Parliamentary Opposition is another xssue.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
THE hydraulic Mr. Johnny Ray is visit-
ing us. His Press-billing as Mr.
Emotion confers unexpected dignity, but
is somewhat conservative; for Mr. Ray
floated to fame on lachrymose torrents of
his own manufacture. 1 suggest some
topical blubberings for his Australian
season; let him wring our withers by
crooning of rude judges, hard-hearted
breweries, and palsied transport-systems.
His tear-ducts, rejuvenated by our anti-
podean woes, should spurt moisture like
a brace of whales. For climax, he might
be joined in a duet by Doc. Evatt, that
perennial martyr.—“Metralia.”
♦j* <j+
“Chevroford”: Road Safety Week in
Victoria got off to a bad start, one per-
son being killed and more than 50 injured
in more than 40 smashes at the weekend.
Things improved on the Monday, when
the 30 m.p.h. limit for built-up areas and
50 for the country came into operation.
Police patrols went out in droves, but
lobbed only 30 offenders; no major
smashes were reported. There was no
more than the ordinary congestion in
the streets of Melbourne, and the aver-
age speed of movement of the traffic
was the same as usual. The only people
who felt frustrated were the handful who
get an associational pleasure out of
speeding.
“C.T.”; Newcastle (N.S.W.) also recently
had a Road Safety Week—and road-acci-
dents for the period were almost double
the weekly average! One of the daily
searches for a courteous driver, who was
to be suitably rewarded, led to
some embarrassment when the
official and the police-sergeant
conducting the quest decided to
make the award to a gentleman
who had stopped to allow chil-
dren to cross the road. Told to
pull in to the kerb, he turned pale
and showed signs of perturba-
tion, which persisted even when
the gladsome news was broken.
Cause of the panic came to
light when the sergeant asked,
for purposes of identification,
for the driver’s licence. He’d for-
gotten to renew it!
❖ . ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Smithy”: Flying under
bridges on the Thames is
apparently becoming as common
as breaking the four-minute-
mile ; but there’s still hope for
Australians to fly a “first.” Pilot
a plane under the Hobart
Bridge!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Brick E.”; Architects love
to couch specifications in their
own pet archaisms. A typical
example; “All bricks are to
be of good quality, sound, hard and
well-baked, free of imperfections and
with clean, sharp arrises.” That, when
you waited 12 months for any sort of
rubbish that came out of the kiln! Many
architects still stick to the Biblical
“shew,” and Housing Commission
draughtsmen always used to (and no
doubt still do) spell “sill” with a “c.” On
the manual side things go in the opposite
direction. It’s a safe bet that not one
tradesman in a thousand could spell the
word that designates a cross-piece on a
scaffold. “Pudlick” would probably be
favorite, with “puttlock” the choice of
the more discriminating. In actual fact
the word is “putlog”—derived from when
scaffolding was erected with poles and
ropes and the cross-log was “put” in
position. But it would be a brave —or
foolish —egotist who used the right word
on a job today,
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Spokeshave”: The U.S. Government
has issued a patent for a gadget which
provides mechanical will-power (what-
ever that is) for heavy smokers who are
trying unsuccessfully to cut down on their
smokes. It is a cigarette-case with a
built-in watch mechanism which trips a
lock to a pre-set schedule; when it auto-
matically opens the owner takes out a
gasper and it snapsrto again until the
next one. It sounds to me like an admir-
able device for increasing the obsession.
It isn’t stated how the mechanical-will
can stop a chain-smoker from taking two
cigarettes at once, shortening the timing
“ Don't be stingy, John. You'd clip that off a thousand sheep."
or buying a fresh packet. The only chain-
smoker I know who has successfully
used his native will-power is a chap who’d
been a War I major. He decided one day
to stop smoking altogether , filled is
pockets with packets; never touches them
himself, but at a party watches every
smoker and when he sees him reaching
for his packet offers him a gasper. He
apparently gets the same satisfaction
from seeing somebody else smoking his
weeds as if he were smoking them him-
self; and he has completely lost the
craving
+ + „
“Sackville”: If “Arjee” (B. 4/8 / ’54)
included England in the 36 countries he
“They must be twins.”
travelled through without hearing the
adjective “durned” he must have gone
there at the wrong time or visited the
wrong places. My Dad still had the
music-hall memories of the Old Country
fresh in his mind when we were kids,
and one of our favorites at the impromptu
fireside concerts was a ditty obviously
bom when Thomas Edison’s inventions
had the world agog. The catchy piece
of nonsense ran: “Those who’ve heard
him crack up Edison, say his jaw is w orse
than medicine; he’s a durned, learn’d
scientific man.” Maybe if “durned”
hadn’t rhymed with “learn’d” there would
have been another adjective; but
evidently the Cockneys understood it
without needing an interpreter.
“Lowpointer”: “Arjee” must haye
had his ears blocked with dust
if he ever waltzed matilda along
Tobacco Road and failed to hear
a “durned.” Certainly he did not enjoy
a stolen turnip with “Dude,” “Jeeter,”
“Lov” and company, who, between them,
“durned” everything in sight. Tobacco
Road, in the play-form, clung to Broad-
way’s difficult bosom for seven years,
so author Erskine Caldwell and a few
odd million fellow-countrymen are appar-
ently well acquainted with the equivoca-
tion. Some Yanks I soldiered with in
War II “durned” with the high-voltage
frequency of “coke” and “cawfee.”
Hopefuls desiring to enter the inner sanc-
tum and sit Around the Boree Log are
expected to be durned sure of their facts.
Durned sure!
❖ * ❖
“Kros”: A Christopher Columbus has
just bobbed-up in Tokyo, first-class pri-
vate lately arrived for the U.S. Security
Forces in Japan, an amiable young fellow
from Memphis, Tennessee. He doesn’t
pretend to be kin to a former gent, of
the name; nor to past namesakes were
related two present-day Englishmen who
last year attended the premiere of the
film “Julius Caesar” —Messrs. Julius
Caesar and Mark Antony. The contem-
porary Caesar has, however, one link with
the dictator of old—a son of his was born
on a March 15, the Ides of March!
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Choleric”: The architectural qualities
of Melbourne’s new Russell-street tele-
phone-exchange may arouse high feelings
amongst those qualified to assess them,
but to me it is merely a structure built
to hide the man who designed the
telephone’s shattering ring. To those who
do not like the building, I offer my ser-
vices to pull it down, bit by bit, in order
to find him.
* ❖ *
“Pip Tok”: Certainty that renovations
can be made has given a reprieve to one
of Perth’s oldest buildings, the picturesque
Anglican Deanery, opposite Government
House in St. George’s Terrace—its
demolition to make room for a 10-story
office-building had been contemplated,
Commenced in 1856, it was finished and
f urn j s hed in time for the first Dean of
,-v v •
Berth ’ „ th f Very Rev. George Purvis
’ ta ke up residence in 1859.
But retu J n f d *> a few
months M f r ’ bai gained
unoccupied until 1873. Like the adjacent
J* 1 *- Memorial Hall and St. Georges
Hall, the Deanery w£s erected on ground
oace a fi° tted to Perth s first jail. Several
executions took place on the site of the
hall next-door, the most sensational being
that of Midgeparoo, an aboriginal chief
who, convicted of murders of white
settlers, was shot by a firing-squad from
the 63rd (Manchester) Regiment.
“Ojay”: “Melbn,” on the Bendigo
chimes having been stopped because
Melba complained that their jangle dis-
turbed her sleep (B. 28/7/’54), is only
half right—they have not been wholly
silent ever since. Melba had them stopped
from 11 p.m. until 8 a.m. —not altp-
gether. If they had been silenced during
the whole 24 hours what was wrong with
the mechanism might easily have been
righted. As it is, the job is so complicated
that no one is game to touch it. And
thus it is that, from the time the pictures
come out until the bacon-and-eggs are
sizzling, Bendigo remains chimeless and
silent.
♦l< ♦>
“Zake”: Every so often there is voiced
an appeal to authority to adopt a more
utilitarian approach to the school curricu-
lum. The latest critic of our education
system, a radio-speaker, could see little
profit in several subjects. “Of what prac-
tical use, for instance,” he asked, “is the
ability, for any except those who will
eventually do science, to determine the
difference between A and B?” Now, far
be it from me to rush to the defence of
higher mathematics, a subject which
plagued my boyhood. But I would put
to the incensed critic only this question:
How else would he be able successfully
to make a call on the new-type public
telephones?
“Jock”: Every time I read of Red
Cross blood-appeals I think of war-time
New Guinea, where I ran into that
Sister. She was in charge of blood-trans-
fusion work in the Moresby area, and
when I called she proudly showed me
over her unit and its equipment. There
were bottles of blood, of serum and this
and that. All very interesting, all very
red. “Like a drink?” she asked as I was
leaving. We moved into the next tent
and I took a seat. Sister reached up—
for a bottle of raspberry!
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Melbn”: The Victorian Housing
Commission, which has been indulging
in what, outside bureaucratic circles,
would be described as sharp practice by
compulsorily acquiring citizens’ blocks
at its own meagre valuation and then
reselling them at a handsome profit, has
provided a laugh for at least one Preston
owner. Going along to look at a block
he bought 10 years ago, he rubbed his
amazed eyes; there, already on it, was
a typical Commission house, replete with
all mod. cons. He went to the council and
found that the land, on which he had been
paying rates and taxes, was still his, so
he, wife and family moved in and are
still there, living rent-free.
MANY MANSIONS
On Sundays when in bed I lie
In vacant or in pensive mood ...
There dawns upon my inward eye
A dream-house, set in solitude.
And searching in the Sunday Press,
I find my unaddressed address.
The newspapers of which I speak
Have each an enviable plan —
Two new and different homes a week
With every comfort known to man ;
Bedrooms arranged from one to
three.
According to one’s family.
Ah, yes; I’m carrying the torch
For a well-printed patio ;
I linger on a sunny porch
Published seven weeks ago ;
I’d enter through the doorway, but
The draughtsmen always draw it
shut;
Which is, I think, a silly trick —
They ought to know I can’t afford
Four thousand pounds or so in brick
Or even three in weatherboard;
No home that I would call my own
Can be put up till it comes down.
So don’t draw plaits I must inspect
Like chimneysweep or burgular:
I say to every architect,
“In future draw your door ajar!”
For if I can’t get in the door
I will not look at any more.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


FOR these times there’s something
rather out of the way about the cir-
cumstances surrounding the arrival of an
illuminated cross at the town of Cygnet
in Tasmania, for the tower of the new
Methodist Church. The church trustees
“As the children come along We'll extend."
wrote to manufacturers in Wisconsin
(U.S.) asking the price of an opal-glass
4ft.-high cross. The firm replied that it
would be pleased to make the cross free
of charge; then the Pioneer Shipping
Co. offered to transport the cross to Aus-
tralia free; the American waterside
workers caught on and took up a col-
lection to pay the rail-freight from fac-
tory to port. Arrived in Australia, the
cross was again handled free, and it
arrived in Cygnet completely without
cost. To cap the lot, a local tradesman is
installing it for nix! —“Vandee.”
♦> * ❖
“An Chuidh”: Certainly “bag” is not
new to slang in the application quoted
in B. 4/8/ ’s4—a flippant reference to a
woman. It has been current in something
of that sense since Roman times, when
the inhabitants of the better part of
Britain spoke Gaelic. “Bag” is a shorten-
ing of bagaid (pronounced “baggage”),
a fat woman, a clumsy woman, a coarse
woman, a woman with a large stomach.
Comes from bag, the stomach.
*X* ❖
“Benbow”: Getting foreign orders out
of a workshop is always difficult (B.
28/7/’54). The best example I know
concerned two apprentices at a dock-
yard in Sydney Harbor, on an island
where there is only one ferry-wharf and
the water-police know all the answers.
The “foreigner” was a boat’s centreboard
about five-feet by two, made of steel-
plate and weighing about a hundred-
weight. This was lashed under a large
floating piece of timber and duly shoved
off for Balmain on the tide about 4.30
in the afternoon. By catching the five-
o’clock knock-off ferry and leaving her
at Long Nose Point, these boys of genius
were able to meet their foreign order
coming to them.
* ❖ ❖
“Alter Ego”: Glad to acknowledge my
indebtedness to “Uramao” (B. 11/8/’54)
for assistance rendered some 16 years
ago. Was living in South Africa at the
time, and one of the Cape papers carried
the “police farce” misprint as a filler. A
few days later I was sending some copy
to a pal of mine in Penticton, British
Columbia, who ran his own magazine,
“The Bugle,” circulating among his
school-mates. The last page of my MS.
carried more space than immortal prose,
and to camouflage the virgin wastes I
tacked on the “defective” joke. In due
course I received my copy of the little
paper, the gag prominently boxed on the
front page. Heard it went down very well,
so no doubt it’s still circulating from the
Rockies to the Yukon, or wherever my
Canadian contemporaries may have
drifted. Wish all literary piracy was
committed in, the cause of laughter . . .
might be a different world.
* & ❖
“Muskeen”: Toorak trams (B.
11/8/ ’54) are frightfully democratic
these days. Uniformed trammies on their
way to the Hanna-street depot do not
appear to mind in the least sitting in the
trams, just like ordinary passengers;
except that most of the o.p.s are strap-
hanging.
“J.C.A.”: As “Archaen”
says (B. 28/7/’54), the
mine-detector can bring
disappointment; though
it failed to locate the
foundation-stone of St.
Jude’s in an attempt at El
Dorado, near Melbourne,
it is still not altogether
certain that there is noth-
ing there. It was assumed
the box placed under the
stone when laid would be
of metal (not without
some grounds when look-
ing at the permanence and
perfection of the architec-
ture of this granite build-
ing), but it still may be on
the inner side of the 20in.-
thick walls, and thus out
of range of the detector.
Church officials are re-
luctant to disturb things
too much, and, apart from
making a complete record
of the search for the
church history, they will
let the matter go for the
time being. One of the
stones removed will be in-
scribed, so future genera-
tions will at least know
how old the building is.
Other interesting finds,
however, due to the pub-
licity the venture got,
were many people asso-
ciated with its past history, including a
son of the Rev. Canon May who read
the prayers at the laying ceremony 84
years ago.
* *
“X.S.”: A Perth headmaster’s guess,
that if the 1000 boys at his school were
searched £lOOO in pocket-money would
be found among them, suggests that the
modern schoolboy must know how to
get round his parents better than we did.
If 1000 of us had been searched I doubt
if £3O would have been found in the
collective poke—certainly not more than
twopence in mine. I saved my twopences
to buy Chums at Christmas, but I might
add that, to present financial appearance
at the tuckshop, on occasion I slightly
exaggerated my needs in terms of rulers,
pencils and india-rubbers—in fact, if my
mother had had a mathematical mind
she would have thought I must be build-
ing a weatherboard house with rulers
alone. Of course, there’s the difference
in value of money. A lad just leaving
school told me that he was undecided
“If may not be a speaking likeness, madam, but we don't make talkies!"
whether to take a job in a brewery at,
including overtime, £l5 a week, or an-
other in a barbed-wire factory, £l7 with
nightwork. The brewery job, however,
had the advantage that free beer was
available. My first job was 7s. 6d. a
week —without beer.
$ ❖ ❖
“Melbn”: It isn’t only the hospitals
that are benefiting from the transfer of
Tatt.’s from Hobart to Melbourne. Sales
of beer have gone up at two near-by
pubs; clients of the late George Adams,
rather than wait. in a long queue, get
their change at those hostelries for the
price of a glass of beer.
*l* *i* ❖
“Craiser”: X see that Meko-Goldwyn-
Mayer refuses to use Marjorie Lawrence’s
voice in the film-version of her auto-
biography because, as Jack Cummings,
the producer, put it, “Her voice just
doesn’t go with the physical appearance
of Miss Parker,” Miss Parker being the
glamor-puss who is “doing” Miss
Lawrence. I would like to know exactly
what sort of voice should come out of
any physical appearance—having heard
lovely voices coming out of fat, thin, tall,
short, pretty and ugly prima donnas.
A much more important question would
be what physical appearance would go
with the genius, intelligence and courage
of Marjorie Lawrence. The producer
who did that nitwit film of Melba
selected a girl who couldn’t possibly
have been a Melba; another lad did a
worse job with Eileen Joyce, and another
a still worse one with George Sand. I
wonder whose physical appearance Mr.
Cummings thinks would best go with the
genius of Napoleon, who was the shortest
little tot in the Grand Army?
£« ♦>
“Mugga Way”: The board of the
National University in Canberra has just
announced, with a touch of asperity, that
“apart from the Council and distinguished
visitors, the [uni.] procession in future
will include only those holding strictly
academic appointments in the University
of or above the grade of Research Fel-
low and the registrar and the librarian,
who are members of the board of gradu-
ate studies.” Been some ring-ins in past
processions presumably.
* ❖ ❖
“Mackville”: Once read an amusing
trifle about a group of aldermen who
proposed to erect a sign, “Only dogs on
leashes are allowed in this park,” but
were deterred when it was pointed out
that the wording forbade any other animal
or person *to enter. The amendment
“Dogs must be kept on leashes in this
park” was lost, since it ordered all dog-
owners to tether their canines in the park.
And so on, a dozen notices being con-
sidered, but rejected because of an under-
lying ambiguity. The Civic Fathers
responsible for the sign in a small park
at Redfern (N.S.W.), however, were
obviously less exacting. Theirs reads:
“No dogs, horses, bicycles or other
vehicles allowed in this reserve.”
>:+ *
“Sister Ellell”: Training in the art of
beating the stork at his own game, we
were assisted by a female medico, who
told us she had been the only lass ampng
the lads of her year; and that after the
prof, had finished lecturing on the female
pelvis they gave her a right-angled look-
over and informed her she was too big
for a “justo minor,” was therefore a
“justo major.” The finals over, she
retired to the fastness of her fathers
country practice, the boys promising to
wire exam, results. , The war had just
started ; the local postmaster, knowing
Dr. Blank, senior, rang through, Got
a relative from the military staying with
you?” he queried. No? Well, praps
he’ll show up later, as there’s a wire here
for a Major Justo Blank, saying he’s
passed his exams,
* *
“Office-boy”: I thought our office
Dumb Dora had reached her pinnacle the
day I saw her take a brolly out of its
plastic bag and throw the brolly away,
Now she’s done better. I’m told that
at church last weekend she put her
money in the plate and said, “Two sec-
tions, please.”
♦> ❖
... , T j ir
Craiser : An f ex 'J/9 r^‘^a^ r r .P
Melbourne, not distinguished for the
elegance of his clothing, was smoking a
cigar in front of a well-known hostelry
when a man with the light of moral
reform in his eye approached him.
How many of those do you smoke a
day?” he asked. Fifteen, said the ex-
First Citizen
shillings,' said the M.R. If you had
saved that money might now be
owning that hotel.” Ido own that
hotel,” said the ex-Lord Mayor,
#
“Phonic”: A large part of the bed of
the Thames is to be shifted so that the
world’s biggest cable-laying ship,
Monarch, can berth alongside the factory
where cable for the new trans-Atlantic
telephone will be made. The longest
existing submarine telephone cable is
200 miles. The transatlantic snake will
be 2000 miles long. At present no cable
contains more than four repeaters; the
new one will carry 52 repaters, many
of them to be laid two miles below the
surface of the ocean. The development
of these repeaters had made the cable
project possible; handy knick-knacks,
they consist of more than 300 valves and
about 6000 other components.
NOT THEIR DISH
“A Melbourne librarian says that to far too
many youths the treasures of literature remain
an unknown world. Only a very small per-
centage of them have read the books tney
ought to read.”
Jules Verne doesn’t get them in,
For he had the wrong technique —
He should have told his yarns strip-
story fashion.
As for Huckleberry Finn,
He’s a fellow they don’t seek!
His adventures don’t include g
*Lurid Passion.
Poor old Dumas tried his best,
But he didn’t have a clue;
His heroes had no beaut, “hot rods
to tune up.
He knew nothing of the West
Where the tall chapparal grew;
He had no two-gun men shoot a
saloon up.
How can Shakspeare ring a bell?
Why, he hadn’t even heard
Of strip-tease, fun-fairs, dope-rings,
spaceship wizards!
All old Will could do was tell
Stories, really quite absurd,
Of old-time blokes with knives stuck
in their gizzards.
Modern youth can’t raise a thrill
From the clash of sword on sword,
From steel-clad hosts engaged in
bloody battle.
But they do enjoy the kill
When a warning is ignored
And a gangster’s sub-machine-gun
starts to rattle.
“Case of the Screaming Skull ’’
Is a classic far ahead
Of stuff in which appeared the bold
D’Artagnan.
—Stuff they’d find so very dull
As compared with flying lead
When goodies fight with baddies in
some canyon.
It’s on pulped stuff now they’re fed,
It’s their meat and their dessert.
They’d scarcely claim to be the
cognoscenti.
Yet, although they haven’t read
Books they. should have, it’s a cert.
They’ve read ' the ones they
shouldn’t have, and plenty !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
“FEATHER YOUR NEST”
The meaningful title of the new
“ Bulletin ” serial, commencing
shortly.
An E. O. Schlunke comedy of the
man on the land—modern, present-
day variety.
The author is one of that variety
himself, with the special advantage
—brightly exploited in “Feather
Your Nest”—of knowing the city
as well as he knows the Riverina
and thereabouts.
A comedy of characters and of
situations, his novel strikes a new
and very welcome note in Australian
writing.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Following Bertrand Russell and Pro-
fessor Madariaga, to lecture at Mel-
bourne University under the terms of
stockbroker Dyason’s foundation, Justice
William O. Douglas, the “Cowboy judge”
—five-gallon hat, broad grin and chew-
ing-gum—burst upon the southern city.
He usually appears on the U.S. Supreme
Court Bench in a crumpled blue suit and
shirt, and wasn’t exactly ceremoniously
dressed when he landed at the airport,
having lately left off feeding on scrambled
turtle’s-eggs, clams, crabs and roast
flying-fox in the Northern Territory.
Always picturesque, he has been hobo,
waiter, window-cleaner, logger and cow-
hand, but didn’t make a real hit until he
reached judicial honors.
• •
In the early ’thirties musical Sydney
was astonished at the extraordinary
pianistic technique of a boy in short
pants—David Maddison, who, starting
to learn at five, made his debut two years
later, and at the ripe age of nine was
playing concertos under the baton’ of
Professor Bernard Heinze. A Sydney
Grammar boy, he was in his mid-teens
when Artur Schnabel toured Australia in
1940, and the great German pianist tried
hard to induce him to go to Holland for
study under Schnabel’s own celebrated
son, Carl Ulrich. But Maddison declined.
A couple of years later he embraced
medicine, sailing through Sydney Uni-
PSYCHIATRIST
versity with the same brilliance which
he had shown at the keyboard, and on
graduating he was promptly selected by
Professor Lambie to be his resident at
Prince Alfred. Since then Dr. Maddison
has specialised in psychiatry, in which
capacity he is on the staff of Parramatta
Mental Hospital. Still a very fine pianist
—he occasionally gives A.B.C. studio-
recitals and puts his services at the dis-
posal of musical associations —Dr.
Maddison is these days also a composer,
his most important work a Rhapsody for
Piano, Clarinet and Orchestra.
• •
Rear-Admiral Roy Russell Dowling,
R.A.N., made a “first” in local naval
history the other day. He transferred his
flag (a two-balled piece of bunting which
designates him Flag-Officer Commanding
the Fleet) from the Vengeance to the
Sydney—first time from carrier to carrier.
One of the best-liked officers in the Ser-
vice, Dowling was also the first Australian
to command a carrier, Sydney, Australia’s
first of the breed.
• t •
New Zealander Dr. R. M. Barrer be-
comes Professor of Physical Chemistry
at the Imperial College of Science and
Technology, University of London. He’s
filled some big jobs over there —head of
the chemistry department at Bradford
Technical College; Reader in Physical
Chemistry at Bedford College, London,
and, awa’ to Aberdeen in 1949, he built
up an active research-school at the uni-
versity there
• •
H. W. Piper shifts from Reader in Eng-
lish at Adelaide University to be Profes-
sor of English at the New England
University, Armidale (N.S.W.). South
Australian Rhodes man, author of the
recently-produced The Active Universe,
a book on the romantic poets, Piper is
the son of a judge and grandson of
another.
Back in Melbourne to conduct con-
certs, Alceo Galliera, whom Melbourne
once hoped -would be its permanent
conductor. He has a son studying in
Milan he doesn’t want to leave, and has
accepted the post of conductor with the
London Philharmonic.
• •
“D.R.” on a transporter:
W. R. F. Bolton is skipper of the 80-truck
transport fleet of that “latter-day Cobb and Co.”
of which cricketer Ray Lindwall (B. 28/7/’54)
is liaison-officer, and which is virtually the
modem extension in south-western Queensland
of the old coaching firm. Bolton’s h.-q. is
Toowoomba, where he’s one of the biggest and
most unobtrusive businessmen, with a command
of personnel deployed in depots and garages at
key positions from Brisbane to Goondiwindi.
Born 1905, son of a country postmaster, he
was schooled in the bush and at Toowoomba
Grammar, whence he entered the State’s public
service, leaving that behind in 1931 to practise
as public accountant, Twelve years afterwards
he acquired interests in a transport company of
five trucks, their activities confined to carting
milk to Army installations. This infafit he
raised with remarkable energy to the status
and tonnage of today’s adult, which carries
everything from wool and wheat to kitchen-
sinks.
An authority on the old Cobb and Co.,
Bolton has compiled a financial history of the
coaching company and collected files full of
documents relating to its colonial heydays.
One of his more sacrosanct acquisitions is the
firm’s original seal; he avers that a resolution
of directors would be required to remove it
from the safe, and the meeting would probably
be opened with prayer.
As treasured, but less restricted in use, is
the Cobb and Co. coach, relic of last century,
run from Charleville to Thargomindah, which
he has had restored for further service on
red-letter occasions. For instance, when T.A.A.
takes delivery of its first Vickers-Viscount air-
craft, surviving Cobb and Co. coachdrivers will
ride in state in the eight-horse veteran to Eagle
Farm aerodrome (Brisbane), there to be given
a free priority flight in the very latest in high-
horsepowered transports of the airways.
• •
A professorship at 33 indicates not too
much time wasted. John Tyrer gradu-
ated brilliantly from Sydney University,
was appointed lecturer in medicine
there, tutored in clinical medicine at
Sydney’s Royal Prince Alfred and won
a travelling scholarship to Europe,
researching. He goes to Queensland
University ; its first full-time Professor
of Medicine.
• •
Lieutenant-General Alwyn Ragnar
Garrett, C.8.E., to govern Southern Com-
mand, has had a bit to do with Gover-
nors. Son of a Northam (W.A.) banker,
he had for godfather another Northam
banker, James Mitchell, who was to be-
come Governor of Westralia. After
getting out of Greece, service back in
the desert with the British Seventh
Armored Division, and helping establish
the First Armored Divison at Puckapun-
yal, Garrett went through the Bougain-
ville campaign, commanded for a time
at Wewak, then went on up to Japan,
Red Robbie’s principal administrative
officer. Up there he became friendly
with the British Prime Minister’s repre-
sentative at MacArthur’s h.-q. In 1951
Garrett renewed the friendship—the
P.M.’s rep., Sir Charles Gairdner, being
appointed Westralian Governor (suc-
ceeding Jimmy Mitchell), Garrett G.O.C.
Western Command. He had a son with
the Army on the Rhine, and was lately
commandant of the Army Staff College
in Victoria.
• •
Sydney has men of law who defy the
onset of years. One is Harold Morgan,
who, at 90 this month, is a busy prac-
titioner still. So is Aubrey Halloran,
who is in his 60th year of legal work and
a member of many organisations: New
Settlers’ and Overseas Leagues; English
Speaking Union ; Deaf, Dumb and Blind
Institute; Town Planning Association
Notaries’, Royal Australian Historical,
Shakspeare, Bums and Dickens Societies ;
Royal Motor Yacht and Millions Clubs.
In all these concerns, and others, Halloran
holds high office, and he attends all their
meetings and speaks often, having a gift
that way. A portrait of the veteran,
painted by Roussell, hangs in the Millions
Club. He can remember Edward Bulwer
Lytton Dickens, the great Charles’s son,
who died, hard-up, at Moree (N.S.W.),
and helped to raise the memorial tablet
in the Church of England there.
• •
“Advocate”: Percy Scott* Williams,
who lately passed on, was an architectural
draughtsman in the old Department of
Works and Railways in Melbourne, after
he had recovered from an air-crash which
cost him a leg. He, Alex. Robertson and
David Crawford drew the plans for much
of early Canberra, and, in particular.
Parliament House, under the direction of
John S. Murdoch, Chief Architect and
Director-General of' Works. This was
around 1917-18, and a grand team they
were. Parliament House was generally
understood then to be merely temporary,
but it still stands and is a fine monument
to these men who visioned it on paper.
Dave Crawford, a fine penman, was also
no mean artist in black-and-white. Henry
P. Moss, Chief Electrical Engineer for
the Commonwealth, was also in that team,
with Alex. Hunter and Andy Fraser as
his offsiders. Canberra took shape from
those drawing-boards in the old building
overlooking Treasury Gardens. The de-
partment transferred ‘to the Capital Terri-
tory in July, 1929, and merged into the
Department of the Interior in 1932. The
old hands are becoming memories.
’ • •
Harry K. Kahan, an Old Digger with
a mort of organising and teaching
experience, has been appointed organising
secretary of the Westralian Federation
of Parents and Citizens’ Associations.
Born in the U.S., he took his B.Sc. at
the Westralian University, and has taught
in 10 Westralian State Schools, the last
posting as science-master. In War I he
was with the 28th Battalion, A.1.F., and in
War II did a good job with Army
Education.
• •
For its lecturer in Australia, the U.N.
International Children’s Emergency Fund
picked a good man in Brian Jones. A
Quaker from Bourneville —the Quaker
town in England founded by the Cadbury
family—Jones worked with an ambu-
lance-unit in the China-Burma-India war-
theatre from 1940 till the Japanese sur-
render. With the Chinese forces in
Burma during the 1942 evacuation, he
worked with Dr. Gordon Seagrave, of
Burma Surgeon. After the war he stayed
on in China, medical-secretary of the
relief-committee through which most of
the Red Cross supplies from the British
Commonwealth and U.S. reached hospi-
tals and medical centres there. Four
months under Communist rule settled all
that; he left China, to become Director
of Field Operations for U.N.1.C.E.F., his
territory taking in 23 countries, from
Afghanistan in the west to Indonesia in
the south. As a measure of what
U.N.I.C.E.F. is doing, Jones reports that
20 million nippers have been vaccinated
against t.b.; 55 million pounds of skim-
milk go annually to children in Korea.
Married to an Estonian who escaped the
Russians in 1944, Jones is a Fellow of
the Royal Geographic Society, and, next
to undernourished youngsters, likes the
violin and color-photography.
• •
Tasmanian midlands, to France, Mel-
bourne, Sydney and the Middle East take
in the main points of Peter Headlam’s
progress, not counting a spot of jackeroo-
ing round Mudgee (N.S.W.) —Tasmania,
born; France, gunner with the 31st Bat-
tery, Third Division, A.1.F.; Melbourne,
mixed up with various parts of the motor-
business, finishing as manager for Ford
in Victoria; Sydney, after deciding to
see what he could do on his own. He’s
done all right; founded the share-stock-
STOCKBROKER
broking business of Headlam, Hewson
and Co., now coming up to its twentieth
year on Sydney Stock Exchange. War
II found him assistant-commissioner of
the Australian Red Cross in the Middle
East, pretty well wherever Diggers
gathered. Nuggety and genial, he’s a
still-lively 50-odd, having laid the foun-
dations . for this representing Tasmania
at cricket and running-up twice for the
N.S.W. amateur golf championship.
Retmng-age puts ex-Lighthorseman
Lieutenant-General Sir Horace Robert-
son out to grass, after a long life of
soldiering since, at 17, he entered Dun-
troon. He was a 22-year-old major of the
10th Light Horse when he led the charge
at Magdaba, cutting-off a column of 300
Turks. Surrounded, by dirty, dishevelled
Australian horsemen, the Turkish com-
mander refused to give up his sword to
anyone but the officer-in-command.
SOLDIERING OUT
“That’s me,” said Robertson, who looked
as disreputable as his men. Twenty-nine
years later he took another sword —
Adachi’s, on the airstrip at Cape Worn;
there was nothing untidy about him or
his men then. At that second ceremony,
after the Australian made a brief address
to the troops, Adachi stepped towards
the microphone. Whereupon Red Robbie
made it quite clear to the Japanese
general that his function from now on
was to listen. Entitlement to the beret
featured in the sketch comes from his
having commanded the Armored Division
on return from the Middle East, where
he led the 19th Brigade in the first Libyan
campaign. 8.C.0.F. commander in
Japan for five years from 1946, he’s had
a term in charge of recruiting, and goes
into retirement from the post of G.0.C.,
Southern Command.
• •
In Ewen Murray Robson the N.S.W.
Libs get another legal man for leader —
vice Vernon Treatt, Q.C. Robson is
partner in a Sydney firm of solicitors, and
has looked after the political interests of
the Vaucluse (Sydney) electorate for close
on 20 years. Soldier as well —D. 5.0.,
commander of the 2/31st Battalion in
World War 11, Forty-eight, addicted to
golf and bowls.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, E. A. Allwood, responsible for the
construction of several of the city’s big build-
ings. Old Digger, he had been president and
treasurer of the Master Builders’ Association,
and high in Masonic doings.
In Hobart, at 74, Hugh Ashton Warner, of
Valleyfield, New Norfolk, one of Tasmania’s
best-known primary producers and public men.
Bom in Hobart, son of Colonel A. H. Warner,
State Commandant of the Tasmanian Military
Garrison, H.A. was a captain in War I; asso-
ciated with founding of the Agricultural Bureau
and the Tasmanian Hop Pool; one of the first
members appointed to the Salmon and Fresh-
water Fisheries Commissioners; and president
and life-member of the New Norfolk Anglers’
Association,
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 88, Colonel J. C.
Hughes, D. 5.0., C.M.G., fine athlete and
soldier. He was in the Boer War, at the Land-
ing at Gallipoli (the first Enzedder to win his
commission in the field), and later was military-
secretary to General Godiey.
In Perth, at 87, Thomas Henry de Pledge,
pastoralist,. Born in Durham (Eng.), he
migrated to Westralia by way of Singapore at
19, coursing down the north-west coast in the
old Australind, one of the first steamers in the
trade. He bought Yanrey station in his early
twenties, and gradually increased his holdings
till today the property takes in close to a
million acres. He’d bred some well-known
blood-horses and his wool frequently fetched top
prices at the London sales.
At Balmoral (Sydney), at 87, George Henry
Williams, a pioneer of lifesaving in Australia.
He helped organise the first surf-carnival in
Australia, at Manly in 1902. A former secre-
tary of the Lifesaving Society, he introduced
the Schaeffer method of resuscitation here, and
was co-designer of the present standard surf-
reel.
In a cell in Fitzroy police-station, Melbourne,
old Bill Bull, gumleaf-player. Like many white
virtuosi, he had a divided allegiance between
Bacchus and the Muses. He suffered for his devo-
tion on both counts. When he played his national
instrument about the streets in Melbourne he
contravened a council regulation and was run-
in ; when, no doubt through artistic frustration,
he got drunk, he was run-in for that—about
once a month on the average. As the police
said, however: “He was quite and
we often arrested him for his own safety.”
At Eltham (Vic.), Lady Irvine, widow of
the late Sir William Irvine, former Chief
Justice and Lieutenant-Governor of Victoria.
She was the first president of the Truby King
League, established in 1931.


« //
It s(\ys in the paper —7
(a)hat i'p uikE to KNOW IS’ ■ ■ ■
VV
That pa. EVATT has ANorneg,
L-OisCr T£I.£G(Z AM.
, ft
A<v\ I Pav/ng for au. xhbsb reueGKAMS?
DISTURBING THOUGHT


ABORIGINALITIES
nrHE evening swill is on. A high-level,
unintelligible babel of raucous
clamor is in the air; the tipplers swig
away. Back witn their heads and down
she goes—a lovely brew ! New thirsty
ones are filling the vacant spaces, forcing
their way through the noisy crowd. The
satiated return to their positions—still
talkative. Chalk-fine walkers these,
swaying precariously. What a garrulous,
impatient clientele at this country soak
—ill-mannered and vain, too! But no
barman serves; no money changes hands;
they help themselves to the elixir. My
friends, they’re entitled to it, those galahs,
watering at sundown from a partly sub-
merged wire fence in a Diamantina (Q.)
waterhole. —“Quo Vadis.”
ft ♦ • <k
“Bass”: Officials of a W.A. whaling
company are keeping as a~ souvenir a
message and the tin in which it was
found, by a million-to-one chance, when
the flensers cut into a whale taken off
Albany. The tin was in the whale’s
stomach, and the message, which was
partly obliterated, read; “B. trick, of
107 Third Street, off Fifth Avenue, Mait-
land East, Cape Town, South Africa.
Motor ship Willem Barendsz.” It was
written on the back of a page torn from
a book which had apparently been used
to conduct a lottery on the amount of
“ Who said I was LOST in a cave ?”
oil taken by a whaling party in the Ant-
arctic during the 1953-54 season.
# * '
“Bellfield”: What nationality was
Tom, who alluded to his tobacco-pouch
as “him” (B. 4/8/’54)? Not Aussie,
surely! Our doesn’t recognise
the masculine gender at all. If a no-
hoper does a rough job he dismisses any
qualms with: Shes near enough!” A
thorough tradesman will condemn the
same job with: “She’s a beaut., y’ought
to see her!” An axe may be praised:
“She’s got a nice fall,” or a rifle criticised:
“She Lifts,” or “She’s a bit light-trig-
gered.” All afflictions are female, from a
toothache to a broken leg: “She gave me
a bit of hurry-up last night.” “She” can
'be in a fence being constructed: “Push
her away from you at the top, George,”
or a heavy piece of timber being lifted:
“We’ll have to roll her over first.” An in-
dependent man will call on the feminine
pronoun in politely refusing proffered
assistance: “She’ll be right, thanks,
mate.” In # all recreations the übiquitous
fern, is ever present. A ball goes over
the fence and; “Where’d she go?” is the
first question. By the swimmin’-hole the
stock question is: “What’s she like in?”
Anything abstract, or concrete, inanimate
or living is a “she.” But that’s not all:
the toughest, hairiest-chested plug-ugly
can be a she if the speaker is being
facetious or scathing—“Jonesy’s got a
clean shirt on —she must be going to see
her sheila to-night.” And so on, and
on. Perhaps it is not surprising that New
Australians get so flummoxed at our
vernacular. She must be a bit puzzling
to a stranger.
* * * *
“Dank”: The knife, the steel and the
cleaver apparently will soon be museum-
pieces, In the butcher’s shop of a North
Queensland fishing village I suggested
a couple of thick T-bone steaks. Butch
rushed a large lump of ox up to a bandsaw
and, after two screaming efforts, handed
me two steaks about 3-16ths of an inch
thick, well covered with a grey smearing
of bone-dust!
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Kelms”; W.A.’s Government botan-
ist, C. A. Gardiner, has established that
the Kimberley (walkabout) horse disease
is caused by the animals eating the wedge-
leaved rattlepod; he has sent specimens
to Melbourne for analysis, and pastoral-
ists have been advised to keep horses
off areas where the plant grows. The
rattlepod is an annual, the seeds germin-
ating after the first heavy rains in
December or January. It grows about
4ft. high, has dark-green stems, and the
leaves are deep-green on the upper sur-
faces and paler underneath; the pea-
shaped flowers are yellow with touches
of red or brown, growing on spikes
carrying up to 20-odd blooms. The pods
are up to an inch and a half long, inflated
and standing upwards and outwards from
the stem rin a manner which Gardiner
thinks is peculiar to this species in the
Kimberleys, and the plant is named from
the way in which the kidney-shaped seeds
rattle in the pods. Affected horses
wander aimlessly and constantly, bump-
ing into trees and other obstacles, eventu-
ally falling into a coma and dying; and
they re worked or hurried they die
ff oner - Sometimes, if left strictly alone,
rec t °T ’ ° T n ! he ® ther hand ’ th^
unaffecLl, yet months”afteSs Iheyft
succumb af y r hard work A bad f
0 f the plant is that horses will eat it at
any stage of its growth, so that affected
areas must be strictly taboo to them.
“Hortus”: On my grandfather’s farm
40 miles from London thoroughbred
hacks, racehorses, polo-ponies (from
Ranelagh) and stallions were kept in
different paddocks on agistment during
off seasons. The easiest way to prevent
kicking or biting between two horses was
to introduce a donkey into the paddock.
Each horse made a friend of the little
fellow and all enmity ceased between
the two larger equines. It is common
practice on most English farms.
* * * *
“C.A.L.”: It disturbed Gerardus, the
quiet-mannered New Aussie, to see
“What, WATER on the knee? Impossible !”
violence of any kind. When tempers
flared in the lamb-marking camp, or
when hot-tempered station-hands were
getting close to the fist-flying stage in the
pub, he constituted himself an unofficial
one-man U.N.0., and only a miracle
saved him more than once from being on
the receiving end of a wild punch. Then
he tried the peace-making stuff in the pad-
dock on a couple of highly belligerent
rams. As he forced in between them they
backed away, then launched themselves
at each other again. Their colliding heads
made a sandwich of Gerardus —a brace
of busted ribs and a badly sprained back!
♦ * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: When a W.A.
farmer bought a property on the coastal
plain about 50 miles north of Perth he
found that he’d also acquired a lifetime’s
supply of phosphate. It’s in caves on the
property —deposits of bats and small birds
who’ve roosted there for centuries.
There’s a catch, though—phosphate is
classed as a mineral, and as such it
doesn’t necessarily belong to the owner
of the place; and the buyer of this pro-
perty found the best deposit being mined
by a man who had a lease. It didn’t
matter much, because there were plenty
of other caves, though the scrub, is so
thick that a plane had to be chartered
to spot them. The owner reckons he’s
found about 50,000 tons of phosphate,
some suitable for immediate use, and a
lot more that will need treatment the
same as the phosphate from Naum and
Christmas Island. The coastal plain
from Yanchep northward for 100 miles
or so is honeycombed with caves. If
these are ever thoroughly explored and
mined another mystery might be solved.
A cave somewhere along there probably
holds‘all that’s left of a large party of
survivors from the wrecked Gilt Dragon
—and a fortune in Dutch gold.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Kros”: A Bulletin paragraphist
lately suggested that sections of man-
kind might eventually have to migrate
to the ocean-floor. If so, the migrants
will at least be spared one heavy expense
—wall-to-wall carpet everywhere, there
ready provided. The ocean-floor proper
lies a mile or so below the globigerina,
diatom and siliceous oozes which carpet
it, in various colors and patterns: pure
white to jet black through every possible
intervening shade. In some cases one
sediment overlies another like a rug
spread over a carpet. So there’ll be no
hard pavements to trudge. Other advan-
tages for the would-be settlers will be
freedom from hurricanes and tornadoes,
drought and climatic extremes. And,
perhaps not least, they’ll be able to take
everything they hear with a grain of salt
—even though, surprisingly, seas are
saltier near the surface than further
down.
“Wandana”: Ages ago (says legend)
Port Moresby produced food in abun-
dance, until a quarrel arose, resulting in
the secession of half the tribe. From
that time the sago-palm and coconut-
tree gradually died out. It was just about
this time that someone noticed a bril-
liant light at night and thick smoke by
day coming from a canoe off the coast. In
those days men talked with birds and
animals on familiar terms. The turtle
first volunteered to fetch news concerning
the mysterious light, but failed. Next
the pigeon tried, but fell exhausted into
the sea while returning with a flaming
brand. The dog then offered his ser-
vices. He boarded the canoe, and saw
water boiled and food cooked by the
strange light. Watching his opportunity,
he jumped overboard with a brand in
his mouth, and swam ashore with his
prize. He taught the people how to use
the fire, and to cook their food; but
in time they forgot the benefits conferred
by the dog and treated him with ingrati-
tude, causing him to seek revenge by
biting them. This fomented a quarrel,
which led eventually to the dispersion of
the tribe. Those who remained in the
Port Moresby locality were reduced to
the verge of starvation, but later their
brethren, taking compassion upon them,
taught them the art of making pottery,
and sold sago to them in exchange for
earthenware pots. Hence the pottery-
sago barter of today.
TO THE NEW AUSTRALIAN
You dare not think you are the first who fled
To this free corner of a shackled earth;
Nor dare disclaim your many lands of birth —
None will try here to foul your fountainhead.
You are the youngest of the brood begotten
By sires in slow escape from choking chains.
Not all their blood spilt ere it coursed your
veins,
So may you dwell with us, old fears forgotten.
Your other kinsmen, dead before your being
Slept in our earth, their many labors ended.
They knew too well what Causes they defended,
What slavery escaped upon their fleeing.
This is the truth; we do not seek from others
More than we give, or are prepared to take!
Hate and be hated? Rather should you make
What we call mateship, with your foster-brothers.
Our sun-drenched fields are your and their
estates;
Jointly reap harvest from the generous plains;
Blend your rich bloodstreams in our children’s
veins—
Give us your hearts —but leave behind your
hates I
N.S.W.
ERIC BAUME.
Bullocks for Boys
"VrO doubt the roaring diesel-engined
' wool-transports hold attractions for
today’s kids, but I question whether
they whip up the same feelings as did the
bullock-teams when they came creaking
and swaying down the road of an even-
ing, to camp in the creek-bend by the
. homestead.
Then the Old Man would take us down
for a yarn by the fire in the evening—a
yam that took in all the gossip of the
district and finished with a supper of
black-tea, corned-beef and damper that
all tasted better than anything we ever
got at home.
We’d drift off to sleep that night to
the distant booming of the bullock-bells,
and wake to the same sound next day,
racing out and down to the wagons to
watch the yoking-up, with Bluey and
Baldy and Ranger trotting into place,
meek as lambs, when their names were
called. Then the long whips cracked
and the; wagon creaked, and we’d walk
beside the teamster to the horse-paddock
gate, wishing we could go right on down
the road with the wagon, and be bullock-
drivers all our lives.
Best of all were the times the rains
caught the teams on the track —when,
double- or even treble-banked, they
came plunging through the mud to stick
at the crossing, and the afternoon was
filled with raging and cursing, and roar-
ing and whip-cracks. Even we kids were
pressed into service, racing up and down
beside the straining teams, plying sticks
and yelling in mud up to the knees, until
the wagon sank slowly down to the axles
and a hoarse voice said:
“There she is, and there she stays!”
There she did stay, too, until the roads
dried up, by which time we’d acquired
a lot of new and effective expressions,
considerable skill in the art of plaiting
greenhide, and a detailed knowledge of
every damping-place for 100 miles
around.
KOREELAH.


YOU get the nostalgic pang in strange
places. On the Isle of Capri a blue-
grey hedge round a white villa caught my
eye. I stopped and stared, then went and
peered at the neatly clipped bushes,
eventually biting a leaf for positive proof.
It was old-man saltbush!—“Alma.”
« * * ♦
“Cocky”: Easiest way to remove an
axe-handle is to put the head with the
broken handle in the kitchen oven, and
leave it there for a day or two. . The
handle then almost drops out; the temper
of the blade remains unimpaired. To
insert a new handle, pare or rasp it not
quite so much as you would if you were
driving it and then place it with that end
in the oven for a day or two. It then
goes in quite easily. Leave the finished
job in the open for a day before using
it and you will have a fit that will never
slip. The same applies to hammers.
While the handle is still warm soak it in
raw linseed oil after fitting the head.
♦ ♦ * •
“Big Red”: In the one case of a
kangaroo joey’s transference at birth to
his mother’s pouch which I person-
ally observed, the newly-born joey
wormed its own way. The doe laid a
track for it by licking a patch in her
fur to the opening of her pouch. When
Joey neared the opening she aided by
using both her “hands” to hold the mouth
of the pouch open. Then she followed
Joey in with her snout. Incidentally,
many ’roos are bisexual; bushmen call
them “moffs,” abbreviation for hermaph-
rodites.
♦ * * •
“Pip Tok”: A slender wriggler about
12in. long and with a pointed head,
thought by its schoolboy-finder to be a
young snake, has been identified by Perth
Museum as a rare legless lizard, known
to science as Plethorax gracilis. The
species was discovered over a century ago
by a German zoologist. Dr. Preuss.
Since then only five other specimens have
come to light; two of them were taken
from the stomach of a crow shot at Man-
durah (W.A.) some years back.
* « * *
“Hortus”: There is a curious side to
» that application of the survival-of-the-
fittest law by the domestic fowl. If a
'bird is injured or develops leg-weakness
ckused by calcium-defipiency or lice-in-
festation the able-bodied will immediately
set upon the afflicted and prevent its
participating in food or drink. But if I
enter the yard and try to catch the sick
bird the rooster will immediately attack
me and create a tremendous scene. After
I have caught it, the incensed cock will
follow me right to the gate, still very
excited. The same rooster, however,
before my entrance, will himself have
participated in carrying out Nature’s
cruellest law, more so, if anything, than
his harem.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”; Lansdowne bridge over
Prospect Creek (N.S.W.) was not the first
built in this country by David Lennox
(B. 4/8/’54). Three years earlier Lennox
built a somewhat similar bridge over the
Lapstone Gorge in the Blue Mountains,
After the Lansdowne he built, in 1839,
the bridge which spans the Parramatta
River at Parramatta, and which is simply
referred to as the Lennox Bridge. Inci-
dentally when a larger church replaced
the Lennox-built St.' Andrew’s Presbyter-
ian kirk in Church-street, Parramatta
(1839-41), the original structure was care-
fully demolished and re-erected in its
original form at Wentworthville, where
“ Don't forget, gentlemen—this card-game will be conducted
in a good-natured manner."
it still stands. There is nothing on it,
however, to indicate it was the work of
our original bridge-builder.
our original onoge oimu
* ♦ ♦ *
“Villefair”: An addendum to the in-
formation given in the Service Depart-
ment (B. 4/8/’54) concerning Sydney’s
first zoo. Of all the animals and birds
moved from the old Moore Park Zoo
to Taronga Park in 1916, only one is
still alive. It is a black cockatoo, and
is estimated to be old enough to quahfy
for the “Fifty and Over” session. My
first sight of Taronga came just after
World War I. I remember my boyish
excitement as the ferry pulled in to the
wharf and the bears could be seen high
up on the rocky ledges with no bars or
cages visible. Today not even the high
dome of the elephants’ Eastern Palace
can namrafbush is re-
amazing growth of natural busn is re
sponsible; which is regrettable in that
it prevents the zoo from being seen from
the harbor, but more than compensatory
i n that it allows the harbor to be seen
from the zoo—with all the added beauty
that a foreground of filigreed foliage can
bring.
SUMMER NOON
The road is hot,
The fences white,
There is no plot
Of green
Here to be seen
And the far hills,
Where smoke spills,
Have lost their sight.
The farm-roof glows
In the sun,
The hot wind blows
Where the paddocks run,
And like a haven set
In the stretching
The trees beget
Deep shade and,
Heads drooping down,
Where flies prevail, .
The horses stand
Darkly against the land,
Head to fail.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.
AN UNRAVELLED MYSTERY
WOMEN, I find, think in a peculiar
way. They will select a house to
buy becapse they take a fancy to the
shape of the door-knobs, a car either
from the cuteness of the revolving ash-
trays or because the light on the dash-
board gives a soft amber glow—whether
it, has four cylinders or 12 is to them a
matter of practically no moment.
This inverse style of thought-process
is especially noticeable when it comes to
the selection of things sartorial. It is
mostly the buttons which will finally
decide them on a topcoat. Man, with his
“ Look —a rainbow !”
greater logic, his flair for going directly
to the heart of a problem, selects one for
fit; he can always take it back and
change it when his wife discovers it’s the
wrons sort of material
It therefore came as no surprise to me
when Agapanthus announced that the
wool which she took out of the parcel, the
jade-green shade of which I was invited
to admire, was for a long-sleeved pull-
over she proposed to knit for me. It
seems she had tramped the city for that
particular shade until her feet were
crippling her. But it would go perfectly
with the yellow and green sox I had got
for Father’s Day.
“Now what pattern would you like it
in?” she asked magnanimously. “You
have to wear it, so it’s up to you.”
“What about in a cable-stitch? I
asked.
Agapanthus shook her head. It s
• too common, ’ she declared. Every
second pullover you see a man wearing
is a cable. No, its got to be more
distinctive.”
“Well, how about a plain one. I sug-
gested. “With everyone wearing pat-
terned pullovers, I’d be quite unique in
a plain one. , ov ~
“But * hat s ,ridiculous!
“I wouldn t think of ll - Everyo \v
say I did it plain because I wasn t able
to follow the pattern, or because I was
lazy and took the easy way. ? No, it
definitely has lobe a pat ern.
“Diamond pattern all oyer. M
It would make you look 100 bi oad,
“Circles, then.
Are you being funny. You d look
freakish. f . . „
“Well, I can t think of anyth ng else.
"‘You’re 'not very helpful. That’s just
a man all over. He is given the option
of selecting his own pattern and he can’t
concentrate on it sufficiently to make a
decision, I often wonder how you hold
your job.”
I let that googly go past without
nibbling at it.
“There’s a pattern in this knitting-
book I bought,” went on Agapanthus,
“which I’m sure you’ll like. There it is.
It’s a sort of twiddly, wavy' thing, but it
will be most effective. Well, I’d better
get on with it —I had the basque done
in town.”
“It seems to bit big,’ she added,
“so I’ll have to get you to help me work
out the reduction in the number of
stitches.”
Having selected the pattern, as it were,
by proxy, I was now free to concentrate
on a task which I always find most
exacting.
“It says here,” said Agapanthus, “120
stitches in the first row, and I want to
reduce to —let me see —92. No, I d
better be on the safe side and make it
106, I can always adjust it when I do
the front half. No, I think I’d better
make it 110, I don’t want it to be too
tight. Perhaps I’d better split the
difference, though. Now, how many
would I have to take off?”
“I’d try a pint and a half first —you
can always whittle a bit more off later if
you have to,” I said.
“This is no"'time for flippancy,” she
remarked. “I want to get on with it or
the winter wifi be over. 1 want to reduce
from —let me see —120 to —what did I
say before?”
“Somewhere between 92 and 110,” I
answered patiently.
“Yes, well, how many would I have
to reduce by?”
“First decide on what figure between
92 and 110,” I suggested.
“Oh, yes, I suppose I’ll have to, won’t
I? 1 think I’ll settle for 98,” she said.
“Then you’ll have to take off 22,” I
announced.
, She looked at me suspiciously. “That
sterns a lot,” she said. “Are you sure
that’s right?”
I assured her that Professor Einstein
would agree with my mathematical cal-
culation.
“Well,” said Agapanthus, and it was
plain from her voice that she still held
strong doubts, “I’ll try it. But it seems
all out to me. Perhaps the pattern’s
wrong.”
She started off, but after a few rows I
was again co-opted.
“See if yew can help me here,” she said.
“This pattern seems to be all haywire.
It’s knit 1, purl 1, knit 4, then purl to
the end of the first row'. The second
one is reversed. That means I’ll have to
purl along to—let me see—would that
be the last eight stitches?”
“The last six,” I corrected.
“How do you make that out?” she
asked.
“It’s simply the other reversed. K 1,
Pl, K 4—that’s six—all the rest purl.’ 1
“But that’s silly. I’ve done that, and
look at it! Perhaps it’s these reductions
of yours. I’ll have to unwind it and
start again.”
That is Agapanthus’s technique m
knitting. She knits an inch and unwinds
an inch and a half.
At the end of a few weeks, with myself
as chief mathematical adviser, the pull-
over had actually progressed considerably
—so much, in fact, that when she held
it up against hie one night it reached
down near my knees. It would also have
fitted me perfectly across the chest if my
measurement there had been 22 inches
and I could have dispensed with the
necessity of breathing.
Agapanthus’s face dropped. “I knew
those calculations of yours were wrong! ”
she said, “Now what am I going to do?”
Now, I had that day brought off a
stroke so bold as to make any husband
gasp, I had gone and bought a Fair Isle
pullover with long sleeves. This I now
produced.
In . such circumstances any pater-
familias would expect recriminations at
this lack of confidence in his spouse’s
knitting ability. But I had invested in—
it really wasn’t a gamble— the celebrated
unpredictability of women.
“This will save you a lot of work,” I
announced expansively. “Why not unwind
the wool and get some more —you could
make a lovely twin-set with it? It would
be much better than using it as a kidney-
band or as a pair of woollen underpants,
which is what it looks like.”
Agapanthus’s eyes took on a shining
light. - . , . ••
“Oh, goody!” she exclaimed, immedi-
ately mollified. “This shade will go
beautifully with that little ornament I
bought the other day for my black toque.
If you want to know anything more
about how to handle women, the under-
signed will be pleased to give any hus-
band the necessary infonnation.
Bo.


NA3
ONLY QANTAS offers all this
\
by Super Constellation
TO
m
TtfCODVER
SMIMSGIS!
OBOIuUI
\
fUI
BVDNE?
Only Qantas offers big, new, beautifully-appointed Super Constellations
to North America. Only Qantas offers all-Australian air crews, two
stewards and a hostess on every flight, and the benefits of over 33 years
of experience. Fly Qantas, always one of the world’s first airlines. Twice
weekly to San Francisco—three times fortnightly to Vancouver. Your
choice of de-luxe First-Class or economical Tourist Class. Dollar allowance
available. Consult your Travel Agent.
WI N VO
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., (inc. in Q’land) with 8.0.A.C. and tEAL
33 tEARS FLYING EXPERIENCE
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
■1
111
mm
Hi
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
KOOM-ONI.Y KATES:
Single Rooms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE."
Telephones;
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
Business. Rollery. Etc.
A Tight Squeeze
'T'HE economic fault of the
•*- Menzies-Fadden Budget for
1954-55 is that it favors the
spenders at the expense of the
savers and industrial planners.
The proprietary side of in-
dustry has received no further
relief from taxation anomalies
and injustices. But, from the
point of view of down-to-earth
politics, it is difficult to see how
the Government could have done
much less for individual tax-
payers and pensioners, and, hav-
ing done that, how it could have
done more for industry.
The cut in income-tax aver-
ages about 9 p.c., whilst the
highest rate of tax is now 13s. 4d.
in the £, as against 14s, last year.
(During the present Govern-
ment’s term of office income-
tax rates have been cut by about
30 p.c.) There are concessions
in respect of dealings in min-
ing leases, and in respect of
purchased annuities, while the
annual exemption for payroll tax
rises to £6240, compared with
£4160 hitherto. There are some
sales-tax reductions, chief of
which is in furniture and the
like —from 12£ p.c. to 10 p.c.
On toys, confectionery and ice-
cream the rate drops from 16f
to P-c* Hand tools are to
be exempted from sales-tax en-
tirely. Cost of sales-tax conces-
sions in a full year will be £12.8
million. There is an appreciable
reduction in excise on Australian
brandy.
Chief increases in budgeted
outgo are £10.3 million extra for
defence (£2OO million), £16.8
million extra for social security
(£193.3 million), £6.5 million
more for miscellaneous services
(£22.2 million), £4.4 million more
for the States (£198.7 million),
and £10.5 million more for capi-
tal works and services (£104.6
million). Estimated total expen-
diture is £lOl5 million (up
£54.4 million).
To match the higher expendi-
ture, and to permit the taxation-
cuts, the Government counts on
getting £l9 million more from
excise and £25 million more
from company-tax.
Chief complaints against com-
pany taxation at present are (1)
the taxing of company profits
and the taxing of the same profits
again when they are distributed
among shareholders, (2) the tax-
ing of undistributed profits in
the hands of private companies
at 10s. in the £, after permitting
certain retention - allowances,
and (3) the failure to allow for
the effect of inflation in allow-
ing for depreciation on working
assets.
With regard to (1) and (2) the
Treasurer has made no promises
of any kind. In respect of (3)
the Government is setting up a
special committee to inquire and
report.
During the past term the
national income rose by 5 p.c.,
and, as prices kept mostly stable,
this was a real gain in output
of goods and services. Total
wages and salaries rose by
nearly 7 p.c., while farm income
fell by 8 p.c. (with wheat down
there is likely to be a further fall
in 1954-55). There was a rise of
nearly 6 p.c. in business and pro-
fessional income. Personal-con-
sumption expenditure was 10
p.c. greater than in 1952-53.
Treasurer Fadden, while
pointing out that in 1953-54
Australia was able to bring all
its physical resources into em-
ployment without overstraining
them, notes that signs of stresses
are again threatening to develop
in the economy.
Some ground has been won
in the attack on costs. Not a
few industries have reported in-
creasing output from the capital
and labor they employ. But,
says the Treasurer, “such
promising tendencies will be
quickly overborne if a scramble
for resources gets under way
again, if business goes out to
chase the ephemeral profits of
inflation rather than the profits
of efficiency, and if labor falls
again for the so-called ‘attrac-
tion’ of high wage-rates.” That
is the danger.
An Eventful Week
The market for investment
shares showed no particular
trend following presentation of
the Budget. Industry got few
or no concessions—except of a
sales-tax character —and appar-
ently it had expected few.
Companies were granted con-
siderable income - tax* relief
in the 1953-54 Budget, and
evidence of this is now being
seen in company reports cover-
ing the last financial year. John
Mcllwraith Industries, plumb-
ers’- supply people, in Melbourne
—one of the week’s examples—
showed net profit £62,473 higher
after making tax-provision
£29,069 lower. (Net profit, inci-
dentally, was 22.5 p.c. on capital,
but the dividend remained steady
at 12y p.c.) There have been
many similar examples. But, in
addition to tax-relief, a wide
variety of companies did better
anyway last year—turnover, on
the average, was up consider-
ably.
One of the juicy reports of the
week has been that of Standard
Motor Products, Ltd., Mel-
bourne, which showed a con-
solidated net profit of £660,185
(against £408,967) and declared a
60 p.c. div., plus a bonus issue
of one for one. (Turnover dur-
"He handles more uranium-shares than any other
broker on the Exchange."
ing the year had risen from
£l2| million to £l6£ million.)
The Commonwealth loan
opened with an offer of 4\ p.c.
13-yeai securities at par and
3 p.c. securities at
£9B 10s. Each issue carries a
25.-in-the-£ tax-rebate under
uniform income-tax.
Ap issue of 200,000 new £1
ords. at a 10s. premium by Aus-
tralian Woollen Mills, Ltd., was
rapidly oversubscribed. Total
paid capital becomes £1,464,000
(£208,000 in 8 p.c. prefs.).
Average net earnings over five
years represent 21.4 p.c. on ord.
capital and net tangibles total
345. 9d. a share. A 10 p.c. ord.
div. is indicated. All figures
look conservative. The organisa-
tion makes Crusader cloth and
Stafnina clothing.
Bradford Cotton Mills has
made determined headway lately.
Quiet around 355. for several
months, the £1 ords, have moved
up to 38s. 6d. Figures for the
past year are due shortly, and
the co. should have had a better
year. It now has a cohtrolling
interest in Burlington Mills
(rayon).
Edwards, Dunlop has reacted
a little from the 725. peak
recently reached. J. and A.
Brown has remained in demand,
with an upward movement of
2s. since mentioned here. 8.H.P.,
with the rights to the new issue
to be quoted next week, has
weakened again ; but waiting for
the rights should be worth while.
The “Nauc Report”—the long-
awaited announcement from the
North Australian Uranium Cor-
poration—came out last week,
and mentioned samples from the
co.’s 651-square-mile Sleisbeck
area showing 0.4 p.c. to 2.48 p.c.
uranium oxide. A line of
mineralisation is reported to
extend for 1£ miles, but at least
six months’ drilling, costeaning
and surveying will be necessary
to establish the value of the ore-
body. Only intensive and scien-
tific work will reveal the de-
posit’s extent and worth. These
words of commonsense and
caution were not appreciated by
the feverish mining sharemarket,
and Naucs weakened sharply,
even though strongly supported
by the co.’s own stable, and
have sunk below 40s.
The time factor is also worry-
ing Ampol investors. W. M.
Leonard, a director of Ampol
Petroleum, has said that share-
holders will have to wait a long
time for a return on their capital,
and mentioned a period of seven
years in Canada. In the U.S.A.,
he added (apropos of the dry
hole at Rough Range No. 2),
wet wells are about one in every
eight drilled. He admitted that
W.A. Petroleum was lucky in
striking oil first try at Rough
Range No, 1. The co. aimed to
drill 10 or 11 wells before the
end of this year.
Ampol Exploration shares
have weakened to 655., which
compared with a highest of 130 s.
at the time the fracture horizon
was encountered a short time
ago.
Oil Search shares have come
back to 245. If they weaken to
20s. they should be as good a
“buy” as anything offering in the
oil-uranium market.
Australasian Oil Exploration
has got the much-publicised
Mary Kathleen uranium leases
near Mt. Isa. If the deal is fully
carried through the vendors get
£250,000 in cash, 20 p.c. of the
shares in an operating co. and
5 p.c. of the gross proceeds of
the ore. A one-for-one issue is
to be made by A.O.E.
A preliminary report on Mary
Kathleen values speaks of
“individual ore-specimens” assay-
ing 0.2 p.c. to 30 p.c. uranium
oxide, “probable” ore of 600,000
tons and “possible” of 1,350,000
tons. Pitchblende, gummite
and uranophane are mentioned.
The figures in the report, like
Kathleen Mavourneen of the
song, are still indeterminate.
Much development and assaying
still needs to be done.


m
as
*9
tmm
iffl
-jsr<
«<!
,vl - ■
XX
iS2
**»e
•r
i^SSL-^.iucsSa-'
► 4fc
MS
&3%§m^oks&Wvi
nra*&£
•J *r.'v Ji^*-*«r*»->. v >*.-»v^
23*. «*> ?■>•'*-*. <£' -
S*** ss : : y * \ii ~ M
BG
I
. A-
■4-^r.:^
V
■'’ 1 5
SPITZBERGEN, 1924-
ill seaplane braves the Arctic
The Polar Bjorn , 150 tons, noses her way
through the ice to anchor off Green Har-
bour, Spitzbergen, nearly a thousand
miles within the Arctic Circle. The year
is 1924.
The Oxford University Arctic Expedi-
tion disembark. Grates are unloaded,
unpacked. In the bitter cold an Avro
Lynx seaplane is assembled.
In a matter of hours the ’plane is ready
for the take-off. In a matter of days it is
playing a valuable part in the exploration
of desolate North East Island, adjoining
Spitzbergen, reaching Lat. 80° 15'N. —
the farthest North any aircraft had
flown.
Flying in temperatures far below zero
demands a fuel of outstanding quality.
The Oxford University Expedition of
1924 used BP aviation spirit exclusively.
Since then BP Aviation Service has
come a long way. Today, geared to
keep pace with future developments and
demands, it is ready at all times to
provide aviation fuels speedily and effi-
ciently.
\ aVIATinHijjJI'SiBVICt^
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
Marketers for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.
-he demand is l or
horse
of course!
i a flavour and fragrance
Smooth Htotllund«s l o°dby*e
** scotoh
Whisky . • • Qave you trie a it?
kiiimiiiii
London Airmail
JT is impossible not to be con-
fused about the progress of
commercial television. Why, for
example, is it being so thrust
upon us? Sound-broadcasting—
entirely for our own good, of
course —has withstood sponsor-
ing for 30 years. What, then, is
there different about TV that it
so badly needs “competition”?
The Government has certainly
had many uncomfortable
moments in getting its Television
Bill on to the statute-book, and
has scarcely emerged from its
manoeuvres with distinction.
While the powerful advertising
and manufacturing interests no
doubt have their protagonists
among the back-benchers, the
argument, put out by the Opposi-
tion, that the Cabinet has been
bamboozled by these few is quite
without substance. Television,
it would seem, is so expensive a
luxury that it cannot subsist on
licence-fees alone.
The recent appointment of
the Independent Television
Authority, besides introducing its
own confusing unaccountables,
seems to underline this fact It
will have a Treasury grant of up
to £2 million and an annual
Government grant of £750,000
during its first 10 years. Some-
time, somehow, further revenue
will be forthcoming from the
programme - contractors, who,
presumably, will sell their
severely doctored wares to the
advertisers.
All this seems, to the be-
wildered public, an extremely
strange way of going about
things. Surely, they say, the
advertiser, by increased sales and
wider markets, will pay for the
service? Perhaps that is the
ultimate intention. If so, £lO
million of the taxpayers’ money
seems a tidy sum to put down by
way of practical encouragement.
Churchill’s Fourth Year
Parliament has adjourned for
the summer recess and will re-
assemble on October 19, unless
specially recalled earlier. Some
leftover legislation has to be dealt
with before prorogation, and
then the Churchill Government
will enter upon its fourth year,
which may well be its last.
On the premise that a swing-
over to Socialism at the next
general election would not be far
short of disastrous, it is widely
believed that this will be the
Government’s most crucial year.
A brief recapitulation shows its
first year as one of no-nonsense
taking-over, clearing up the mess
left by the Attlee Government
and setting the nation’s economy
on the right lines; the second as
one of active consolidation ; and
the third as more relaxed,
enabling a considerable measure
of legislative reform to be carried
out and practically all controls
to be removed.
For the Conservatives to
command the respect of the
electorate, it is argued that the
fourth year needs to be one of
vitality, sense of purpose and
promise of further application.
Churchill must, in short,
convince the nation of the
abstract qualities of his team.
This is not being done.
Whether or not Churchill will
continue as Prime Minister is
known only to himself. He may
continue as long as his health
holds out, but he was obviously
deeply upset and grieved over
the inevitability of the with-
drawal from Suez. Such disap-
pointments (what else can they
be to a Churchill?) take their
toll. And he is, perhaps, too
remote and preoccupied to
compose the restiveness among
the back-benchers.
He might, of course, hand
over his Parliamentary respon-
sibilities to a respected deputy
(either Eden or Butler or Mac-
millan), leaving himself free for
high policy. But this only
From Herbert Holman
anticipates the succession which
is well established anyhow, and
never in question as a strong
Conservative asset.
The truth is that the recent
Government appointments did
not go far enough. It is well
known that several Ministers are
not so much hanging on to their
jobs as agitating to be released.
This promotes uncertainty and
frustration; hardly vigor and
enterprise. Of the seven new
appointments, mainly to junior
offices, the average age is only
45, which may be taken as
sufficient indication of the
quality of the reserve.
If, with the next Parliament, a
new Prime Minister were to
appear, his first thoughts would
undoubtedly turn towards a new
and stronger team. It remains
to be seen whether, during the
vacation, Churchill can accom-
modate himself to this View.
Old Nuisance
Edmund Morris’s “The
Wooden Dish” (Phoenix Theatre)
burkes no issues in dealing with
the ever-present problem of old
age. This stark and poignant
play conveys a tacit moral that
is paradoxical yet not without a
large measure of truth. It is:
“Don’t grow very old or you’ll
only become an unhappy,
unwanted nuisance.” The theme
is no less powerful, for it brings
out another hard truth —that a
comparatively young life can be
embittered and spoiled under
the constant burden df having to
care for a trying old relative.
Pop Dennison is an 80-year-
old Texan. At his worst he is
proud, restless, pompous and
irascible; at his best, endearing,
childlike and pity-stirring. Even
without the sharp edge that
senility gives to idiosyncrasy he
is not of a nature to appeal to his
short-tempered daughter-in-law,
Clara. She, having been saddled
with him for the entire 17 years
of her married life, feels hard
done by and thinks the other
children should take a turn. They
are well 6ut of the way in
America’s vastness and refuse to
answer letters.
Clara wants to send the old
man into a home, but is unable
either to persuade her soft-
hearted husband or to provide
the money. So, on a more serious
pretext, she sends for the eldest
son. He arrives from Chicago,
and is considerably rattled when
he finds the old man well and
himself expected to contribute
towards the fees of the Alimo
Heights Haven for the Aged.
Pop has an obsession about
such places (and, clearly, he is
not to be blamed). Clara is so
distraught that she throws
herself at the unpleasant lodger
(“anything to get away from
here”), and her husband has to
decide —father or wife? The
end, when Pop makes his own
decision, is moving and tear-
making. As so often occurs in
real life, it is neither tragic nor
happy, only irremediably sad.
The play’s universality is
enhanced by its setting, largely
because Pop’s Southern pride,
vaingloriousness and bristly
gentility underline the conflict
and set in contrast the urban
penuriousness of his son.
Intensity rather than subtlety
marks? the writing. The cor-
porate acting has tremendous
verve, fervor and emotional
force. Joan Miller’s playing of
the vitriolic Clara asks for no
sympathy but wins a lot. Wilfrid
Lawson is sometimes incoherent
as Pop, but this may be excused
as in character. His performance
is so delicately conceived and
imbued with virtuosity as to
approach greatness.
The title is" partly symbolic.
The wooden dish is forced upon
Pop in his second childhood
since, in his frequent bouts of
anger, he smashes anything
breakable.


9
How mneh
-il-H r * • • . • 5 • -* . Vi
ds
time will your
Executor have for your affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet:
“trust estates and their management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E,
(Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bond. ' J. R. FavieU*
£. B. Fleming. G B. Kater*
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland ,
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart f*
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
PT.80.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
nrHE size and strength of the organisa-
-1 - tion, financially and otherwise, its
long and pleasing history, and the board’s
declared policy of paying v ‘a reasonably
good dividend, coupled with as safe a
protection for capital as is humanly
possible, rather than a heavy disburse-
ment of profits in prosperous times and
nothing in lean periods,” places the co.’s
scrip in the category of a sound indus-
trial equity.
Third-biggest of its kind in the Com-
monwealth, the co. is in the wool-
broking, pastoral-finance, stock-and-
station and other agency and merchan-
dising business, and is still expanding.
It handles more of the staple in its home
State and Westralia than any other
broker, and is second on the list in Vic-
toria. The branches at Sydney,
and London are concerned mainly with
merchandising, and shipping-agency and
-chartering activities.
Over the last eight years seasons have
been fair to good. Prices, especially for
wool, reached their peak a couple of
years ago, and then fell to more ratiopal,
and relatively stable, though still very
profitable, levels. Last term the co. picked
up more than it dropped. Less wool but
more livestock was put under the
hammer;
Wool, Bales. Sheep. Cattle. Pigs.
1951 .. 393.603 3,905,330 195,135 115,605
1952 .. 422,389 3,037,790 179,914 114,858
1953 . . 457,355 3,939,848 167,602 118,153
1954 . . 440.370 4,155,206 191,633 132,588
The wool sold averaged £lOl 16s. 6d.
(up £1 13s. 9d.) per bale, prices for live-
stock held well, and merchandise and
real-estate transactions increased.
Turnover in the main sections of the
business was as follows:
1953. 1954.
Wool £45.797,891 £44,841,083
Merchandise .. .. 21,081,492 21,590,550
Livestock .. .. 16,337,909 19,517,962
Real estate .. .. 3,863,372 5,889,916
Skins and hides .. 2,228,376 1,541,762
A drop in the number of sheepskins
handled was responsible for the slip in
value of sales in the skins and hides
department. Shipping, insurance and
other activities contributed to the pool,
too.
After setting aside an extra £185,474
for depreciation (£349,317) and allowing
something for bad and doubtful debts,
etc., there was a spring of £124,525 in
gross profit from all sources:
Exes. p.c.
Gross.* Exes.f Gross. Net.
1951 .. £3,884,562 £3,157,200 81.8 £727,362
1962 .. 3,274,793 2,855,698 87.2 419,095
1953 ~ 4,027,409 3,441,669 85.5 585,740
1954 .. 4,151,934 3,503,080 84.4 648,854
* .liter providing for contingencies and depreciation
of premises and plant. f Includes provision for
taxation, etc.
Including what looks like a generous
provision for taxation (£615,000, down
£150,000), exes, gobbled only £61,411 of
the gain. The net result was thus £63,114
stronger-at £648,854, which was second-
best showing in the co.’s history. The
£648,854 was equal to 22.9 p.c. on the
£2,826,300 of share capital compared
with .20.7, 14.8, 25.7, 22.6 and 13.7 p.c.
back to 1949. A 2 p.c. bonus was added
to the 10 p.c. div., making 12 p.c. for the
year. Average distribution over the last
seven years* was 11 p.c., compared with
an average of 6.6 p.c. for the preceding
decade. After sending £42,823 to the
staff provident fund, visible reserves
stood at £2,516,692.
Continued expansion of the business
—four new branches were opened during
the year—and the growing financial needs
of clients for efficient operation of their
properties, sent advances up by
£1,591,347; *
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £2,826,300 £2,826,300 £2,826,300
Reserves .. 1,991,707 2,249,817 2,516,692
Deposits, etc... 692,542 598,563 557,434
Sundry creditors,
etc 15,257,186 12,115,609 12,683,494
Tax provision. . 455,509 907,427 632,814
Final div. .. 169,578 141,315 197,841
£21,392,822 £18,839.031 £19,414,575
Freeholds, plant,
etc. .. 2,303,947 2,531,169 2,463,346
Govt, securities
and cash .. 7,517,474 7,259,653 6,605,483
Advances, etc. 7,872,865 6,475,909 8,067,256
Stocks .. 3,213,437 2,074,749 1,794,599
Shares other cos. 485,099 497,551 483,891
£21,392,822 £18,839,031 £19,414,575
To help meet the outlay and reduce tax-
commitments (provision therefore was
down £274,613) the holding of Govern-
ment securities and cash, etc., was reduced
by £654,170 and stocks by £280,150,
while £567,885 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc. And the
co, is still well-equipped to further assist
clients should the need arise.
The Budget contains no relief from
pay-roll tax, nor from double-taxation
of co. earnings, first as profits and then
as dividends in the hands of shareholders.
Still, the wool industry remains the bright
spot in the Australian economy. At the
moment the seasonal outlook is fair to
good, the volume of the coming clip is
expected to equal or exceed last season’s,
and a strong demand and good prices are
anticipated at the opening sales in Sydney
at the end of this month. What happens
later in the season will depend largely
upon the strength of Japanese and
Russian demand.
At 28s. 3d. (245. 4d. a year ago) the
co.’s f.-p. 12s. shares return 5.1 p.c. on
a 12 p.c. distribution. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 225. Bd.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
C|UBJECT to what happens in connec-
tion with costs, mainly wage-rates,
shareholders’ prospects in this and other
trustee cos. have taken on a “new look.”
The change came in April, 1952, with a
belated amendment to the scale of com-
mission and other charges set out in the
N.S.W. Trustee Companies Act:
Old Scale. New Scale,
p.c. on first £50,000 | 8f p.c. on first £25,000
li „ on next 50,000 I 3 ~ on next 25,000
1 „ on excess 100,000 ] 2 „ on next 50,000
1 „ on excess 100,000
The old charges had remained sub-
stantially unaltered for well over half a
century. The new scale is also static, and
applies only to new business, which
means that the full benefit to net earn-
ings will be spread over a period.
It was mainly the rapidly -mounting
pressure of wage-rates, etc., against the
old veiling of static charges that brought
the Perpetual’s profits and dividends
down with a rush during tjie two years
to 1952:
Net Dividends, Written To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 12i p.c. Off, Etc. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1946 .. 29,192 25,000 2,500 1,692 296,233
1947 .. 27,895 25,000 1,250 1,645 297,878
1948 .. 27,354 25,000 —• 2,354 300,232
1949 .. 26,123 25,000 1,123 301,355
1950 .. 28,180 25,000 3,180 304,534
8 p.c.
1951 .. 17,973 16,000 1,973 306,507
4 p.c.
1952 .. 586 8,000 299,093
5i p.c.
1953 .. 10,329 11,000 298,422
8 p.c.
1954 ~ 19,259 16,000 3,259 301,681
Chief factors responsible for the recovery
of the figures over the last two years
have been the adjusted charges and the
pegging of the basic-wage since Septem-
ber, 1953. Last term’s £19,259 (up
£8930) of profit was 9.6 p.c. on capital as
against 5.1, 0.3, 8.9,. 14.1 and 13.6 p.c.
back to 1949. The div., which had been
steady at 121 p.c. for the five years to
1950 and had dropped to 4 p.c, in 1952,
was lifted from 51 p.c. to 8 p.c. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s profit was no more
than 3.8 p.c. Since that is probably less
than the co.’s own funds are turning in,
appearances are that clients are still
receiving extensive and efficient services,
which call for specialised knowledge, at
less than cost.
The value of estates wound up last
term exceeded that value of those put on
the books by £1,251,819:
Year ■ Exes.,
Ended Ex- p.c. of
June, Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1950 .. 70,636,805 282,494 257,370 91.1
1951 .. 72,134,670 304,758 289,659 95.0
1952 .. 73,603,774 320,878 322,996 100.7
1953 .. 72,849,723 329,055 316,435 96.2
1954 .. 71,597,904 347,845 328,728 94.5
The heartening features were the con-
tinued growth of income (up £18,790)
and contraction (345. p.c.) in the expense
rate, thanks to the halt in wage-increases
and drop in rate of co. tax in the 1953
Budget. Growing realisation of the obvi-
ous advantages of the corporate over the
private trustee, and an expanding
economy, are likely to ensure a steady
increase in the volume of new business
entrusted to the co.’s care, and therefore
in gross earnings. The extent to which
net earnings may benefit will depend
largely upon whether inflationary pres-
sures can be held in check.
The co.’s own funds —they are a pro-
tection for clients as well as a source of
income for shareholders —are employed
in this way;
1952. 1958. 1954.
Paid capital .. .. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Reserves .. .. 299,093 298,422 301,681
Creditors, etc.* .. 33,832 35,557 34,798
Final div 8,000 6,000 9,000
£540,925 £539,979 £545,479
Premises, etc 114,158 117,937 121,940
Mortgages, etc. .. 101,297 85,956 89,008
Sundry debtors .. .. 8,314 2,228 2,423
Gov't, securities .. 226,093 226,093 226,093
Cash, etc. .. .. 96,068 107,765 106,015
£540,925 £539,979 £545,479
* Includes provision for income tax, etc.
Premises, which appear at cost less depre-
ciation, are worth a lot more than their
book-value. A branch office is presently
to be opened at Canberra.
From the testator’s point of view, the
altered conditions of today call for a
revision of wills. The prescribed list of
trustee investments makesit very difficult
for a trustee to secure a reasonable
income for the life tenant, and at the
same time keep the capital intact' for the
remainderman, unless the settlor “con-
tracts out” of the act by inserting a
clause in his will giving the trustee special
powers in relation to investment.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd. (Syd.)
nrHE motor trade, whose prosperity has
rivalled that of the woolgrowers, is
still winning fat though less-opulent
profits than for the three years to April,
1952, which marked the peak of the post-
war boom. Moreover, the downtrend in
unit sales of vehicles reached a turning-
point in 1953, and the position has steadily
improved since, thanks to a number of
stabilising factors, including the easing
of credit and import-restrictions.
Although the Budget offers no further
relief in co. tax, nor cut in sales-tax on
commercial motor-vehicles, and Govern-
ment restrictions on road transport con-
tinue, operating costs are now steadier
than at any time in the last decade, the
immediate outlook in the trade remains a
rosy one, though competition is getting
more of an edge on it, with a consequent
threat to present profit-margins.
Over the last five years Larke, Hoskins’
declared net earnings totalled £1,271,669,
out of which it paid dividends aggregat-
ing £289,500, the average rate to the ords,
being 34 p.c. At April 30 last the co.
had thus been able to accumulate
reserves of £1,246,859 to support and
assist its £240,000 of share capital, of
which £40,000 carries a fixed cumulative
5 p.c. On capital and reserves combined,
the pref. div. and 30 p.c. to the ords.
(rate paid for the last four years) call
■ for no more than 4.2 p.c. For this and
other reasons the f.-p. ss. ords. at 255.
(18s. 9d. a year ago) offer a satisfactory
return of 6 p.c. on a 30 p.c. div. basis,
or 5 p.c, should the distribution drop to
25 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is 365. 2d. The well-protected £1 prefs.
at 18s, 6d. yield 5.4 p.c.
The co. is engaged in importation and
distribution in N.S.W. (except for por-
tion of the Northern Rivers and Riverina)
of Austin cars, utilities, lorries, etc., as
well as in manufacture of motor-
vehicle bodies, and the assembly of
vehicles and ancillary functions, and the
sale of replacement parts and provision
of servicing facilities. The new produc-
tion plant at Enfield (near Sydney),
where the chassis are assembled and
motor-bodies turned out, got into full
swing about two years ago, and “con-
siderable” savings in overhead followed.
It was designed to handle up to 400 pas-
senger- and a like number of commercial-
vehicles a month.
The co.’s vehicle sales, which shot up
like a rocket from 719 in the 1947 term
to a peak of 12,920 in 1951, fell to
10,729 in 1952, to 4580 in 1953 and rose
to 6130 last term. Import-restrictions,
which at first enabled the co. to reduce
redundant stocks, later became a bottle-
neck on the supply side. This difficulty,
however, disappeared with the gradual .
relaxation of restrictioqs, while a grow-
ing number of ageing vehicles helped to
swell demand for replacement parts, and
servicing made a handy contribution to
the pool, too.
After allowing £40,000 (same as previ-
ous year) for depreciation and £135,000
(up £50,000) for taxation, net earnings
were £60,423 stronger at £192,987:
f. Dividends N To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1948 .. 50,089 5 15 13,500 36,589 47,285
1949 .. 107,272 5 15 13,500 83,772 141,057
To stock reserve, £30,000 .. .. 111,057
1950 .. 379,427 5 50 41,500 337,927 448,984
To stock reserve, £150,000 .. .. 298,984
Revaluation property, £49,500 .. 348,484
Surplus sale assets, £4032 .. ~ 352,516
1951 .. 803,446 5 30 62,000 241,446 593,962
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. .. 543,962
1952 ... 263,248 5 80 62,000 201,248 745,210
Stock reserve written back, £250,000 996,210
Additional depreciation, £35.000 .. 960,210
Tax overprovided, £85,098 .. ~ 1,045,308
1953 ~. 132,564 5 30 62,000 70,564 1,115,872
1954 .. 192,987 5 30 62,000 130,987 1,246,859
After paying the small pref. div. (£2000),
the balance of the year’s profit was a
juicy 95.4 p.c. on the £200,000 of ord.
capital as against 65.2, 130.7, 150,7,
472 and 132.2 p.c, back to 1949. The
distribution was kept at 30 p.c., of which
10 p.c. is called bonus, leaving £130,987
(67.8 p.c.) of the year’s profit to plough
back into the business.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
were in the right direction, and the finan-
cial position strengthened:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £240,000 £240,000 £240,000
Reserves .. .. 745,210 1,115,872 1,246,859
Mortgage .... 100,000
Overdraft .. .. 1,127,675 92,333
Creditors, etc.* .. 2,514,514 1,618,594 1,102,384
Tax provision . . 448,874 85,000 160,889
Pinal divs. .. 41,000 41,000 41,000
£5,117,278 £3,100,466 £2,983,465
Freeholds .. .. 635,728 590,020 592,173
Plant, etc 175,223 178,550 156,072
Stocks .. .. 2,912,522 1,153,748 1,183,806
Debtors . . .. 308,427 235,629 175,373
Investments .. 684,729 767,680 875,287
Cash. etc. .. 500,644 174,839 754
£5,117,273 £3,100,466 £2,988,465
* Includes provision for “sundries,” £514,410 at
30/4/’54.
To reduce the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc, by £516,210 —the etcetera
includes £514,410, up £98,910, of sundry
provisions—carry £30,058 more stocks
and add £107,607 to investments, the co.
raised £lOO,OOO on mortgage from the
M.L.C., went to its bankers for £92,333,
and drew upon cash, etc., for £174,085.
The improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£738,614) was £151,312.


PROGRESS
AND
PLANNING
have placed the
Metropolitan Life in
the forefront of Austra-
lian financial organisations.
Plan your financial pro-
tection through a
Metropolitan
policy.
AUSTRALIAN
EVERY YEAR
A BONUS YEAR
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BWBO6T,
TO -DAY'S PROTECTION—TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
36in.
M
K
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed jeaflet__today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear’’
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
80x'2521. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. i . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £l/1 6/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
(Please add exchange to country cheques)
Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers. ~. ~
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445. BU 3446. BU 1409.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND —TOWNSVILLE.
TO THOMAS BOWMAN formerly of C/o
Deputy Commissioner of Repatriation
Riverside Drive Perth Western Australia
but whose present whereabouts un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that IVY MAY
BOWMAN has commenced an action
against you for dissolution of marriage
No. 280 of 1953 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Queensland at
Townsville within forty-six days after tne
expiration of fourteen days after this pup-
lieation in the Sydney Bulletin or in
the “West Australian” whichever may pe
the later publication You may obtain
without charge a copy of the Writ of
Summons and Petition from M. GIUJJJto,
ESQ., Solicitor, 10 Denham Street, Towns-
ville.—H. FITZPATRICK. Registrar.
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor.
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
jFailh in ihc
Mature
A i
- : :5-
x X
Mareeba, Charters Towers, Townsville! They
were spots on the checker-board of Time, their sites
static for centuries before this nation was born then
they entered into history in May, 1942, when Australia s
future was decided in a day in the Battle of the Coral
Sea.
From these northern airfield's American bombers
went out to help in repelling the Japanese invasion
fleet. They took off from strips which Australian
workmen had rushed to completion, pressing on
through the night to do it.
There is drama in that: in the building, in the
battle, in the forming of the Australian-American
bridge that was to reach to victory.
It is good to look upon these places now —as I
did last week—nestling prosperously in the peace that
men’s bravery and labours combined to win for them.
Mareeba had been ordered to be ready in eight
days. The first strip was built on time. The first big
runway at Charters Towers was laid down in 17 days,
and from there the construction spread to the making
of two large airfields and satellite strips.
Garbutt field, at Townsville, was extended within
six weeks to take Flying Fortresses at the end of 1941.
And Garbutt grew to be not only one of the great
airports of eastern Australia, but the giant repair base
that kept the bombers and fighters flying for General
MacArthur in the crucial New Guinea campaign.
That was the pattern of Australian endeavour then.
Hundreds of miles of defence roads were built
throughout the country in shorter than the Array-
allotted time. The 954-mile road from Alice Springs to
Darwin was an epic example of what men can do when
patriotism stirs them. ,
What was possible then, in a menacing time, should
be no less possible now. Australia was the stake, and
no effort was too great to make for it, no cost too
heavy to pour into preserving it.
It is the same Australia today, and our stake in it
is growing with the years.
RUPTURED?
The modern RIGIFLEX BELT, relieving pressure on the
hernia region by supporting the internal organs, luting them
away from the hernia, prevents the spreading of the rumur .
A feeling of fitness and complete freedom entirely replaces
the rigid local pressure exercised by trusses.
JjpLI
Write today
for Free
illustrated
booklet.
Manufactured and Distributed by
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL, of Paris PTY. LTD.,
$4 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel.: FA8357
SYDNEY AGENTS; W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO. LTD.^
Hunt for Oil in Victoria
TN the hunt for oil the spotlight
-*■ has been switched to the
Lakes Entrance district (Vic.),
where two cos. recently acquired
oil-prospecting rights over areas
soon to be test-drilled. One co.
is the powerfully backed Frome-
Lakes Pty., Ltd., in which
D’Arcy Exploration Co., Ltd. (a
prospecting subsidiary of Anglo-
Iranian Oil), Consolidated Zinc
Pty,, Ltd., and the Vacuum Oil
Co. are equal partners, and
together are to put up £260,000
cash.
Its leases, which cover
1400 square miles from
Lakes Entrance to Woodside,
are to be test-drilled to a
depth of 6000 ft., and equipment
and technical experts are being
brought from U.S. for the pur-
pose. These leases include those
originally held by two Aus-
tralian cos.. Austral Oil Drilling
Syndicate, N.L., and Lakes Oil,
Ltd., which pioneered explora-
tion of the field. The Austral
Syndicate is to receive 40,000
f.-p. shares and Lakes Oil
200,000 f.-p. shares in Frome-
Lakes Pty.
Sir Norman Mighell, chair-
man of the Frome-Lakes co.,
says “We know oil is there. It
has already been produced in
unpayable quantities, and all
Government and private ex-
ploratory work points to the
existence of a big oil basin. We
know more about the Gippsland
country than they did about
Rough Range in the West.” ‘
The other co. is Woodside
(Lakes Entrance) Oil, N.L.,
which will presently leave the
stocks in Melbourne —issue of
the prospectus is due any day
now. It will take over from
Gippsland Oil Co., Ltd., and
Lakes Syndicate Pty., N.L.,
leases and oil-prospecting rights
covering 200 square miles adjoin-
ing the Frome-Lakes Co.’s hold-
ings. Those on the register of
the Gippsland and Lakes
Syndicate cos. will have prior
rights to application for 300,000
contribs. and 200,000 contribs.
respectively in the Woodside co.,
and the cos. will also receive a
like number of f.-p. shares.
The intention is to get in half
a million of capital immediately,
and the proposed issue of.scrip
is reported already oversub-
scribed. Negotiations for a drill
are under way, and the Victorian
Mines Department is to co-oper-
ate in selection of the first drill-
site. Those on the register of
Austral Mining Co., N.L.,
Poseidon, N.L., and Pioneer
Mines, N.L., will together have
prior rights to application for
500.000 shares in the Woodside
co. with no specific number of
rights. The f.-p. £5 shares in
the Syndicate recently sold in
Adelaide at £36.
Aust. Oil Exploration, Ltd.
Formed about six months
ago to take over oil-prospect-
ing permits held by the
Cable Oil Syndicate, the co.
recently let a contract to test-
drill Reid’s Dome, south of
Rolleston (Q.), and has now
plunged deeply into uranium-
ore development.
Following acquisition of pros-
pecting rights over the Counter
leases, some 17 miles north of
Mt. Isa (Q.), the co. has now
announced purchase of the
much-talked-of Mary Kathleen
uranium leases of 640 acres in the
same district. These leases, said
to contain pitchblende, have
given “ore specimens” assaying
from 0.2 p.c. to 30 p.c. uranium-
oxide. v
The purchase-price is £250,000
cash, plus other considerations.
The cash is payable £50,000
down, £50,000 when the leases
are recommended by the warden
and £150,000 when they are
granted by the Government. The
vendors —four members of the
Clem Walton family, together
with Messrs. McConachy,
Lamkin, Barnes and Fox —are
also to get a 20 p.c. share interest
in Mary Kathleen Mines, Ltd.,
which is to be formed to work
the prospect, as well as 5 p.c. of
the gross proceeds of ore.
A.O.E. is presently to make
a one-for-one
Present paid capital is £445,000
in 5,000,000 ss, shares, of which
4.600.000 are paid to Is. 6d. each.
A call of Is. a share is payable
August 31. The contribs.
recently fetched 20s. in the
market.
North Aust. Uranium Corp.
The co. intends to concen-
trate upon development of its
newly acquired Sleisbeck area
of 651 square miles in the
Northern Territory, where at
least six months’ • vfork in cos-
teaning, surveying, opencutting
and diamond-drilling, etc., will
need, to be done to establish the
value of the ore-body, the chair-
man says. One costean has dis-
closed ore over a width of 25ft.,
with true width of the body
yet to be determined. Surface
samples assayed from 0.4 p.c. to
2.48 p.c. uranium-oxide. An air-
strip has been constructed,
mining equipment is being
assembled, and an all-weather
road to the bitumen highway,
74 miles away, has been
surveyed.
As a potboiler the co. has
stockpiled some hundreds of
tons of development ore of
commercial-grade. The board
intends to retain only the
Sleisbeck area, plus 70 square
miles on the A.B.C. Reserve, and
an area at Coronation Hill,
where work has been in progress
for the last eight months.
Options over all other areas,
including several in the N.T.
and on the Mt. Isa field, have
been abandoned.
Issued capital consists of
1.350.000 ss. shares, of which
50.000 are fully paid and the
balance called to 2s, 6d. each.
Over the last couple of months
the price of the contribs. shot
up from 9s. to 445. in the market,
before reacting.


Women's Letters
MELECtIKNE
The 200 guests who attended the
annual at-home of the Yorick Club at
No. 9 Darling-street were received by the
president, Mr, Hugh Wallace Smith, and
his wife, she wearing a picture-gown of
palest-pink tulle, the halter-necked bodice
carrying opalescent sequins and pink
pearls. Over her sheath gown of heavy
white guipure-lace Mrs. Ronald Nott
added a cloak of light-gold satin. Mrs.
Rae Featherstone’s strapless gown was
of grey pink-patterned satin-brocade.
Mrs. Norman Poulton wore a frock of
grey-and-silver brocade, Mrs. Keith
Morrison bouffant white tulle and Mrs.
F. Irving cream satin self-patterned bro-
cade. Mrs. Noel Burbank’s pink-grey
satin gown was cut on sheath lines ; Mrs.
John O’Driscoll’s strapless gown was of
watermelon-pink tulle.
* ☆
An active member of Red Cross trans-
port for some years, Jennifer Mary
Russell was married at the Littlejohn
Memorial Chapel, Scotch College. Jenni-
fer, the younger daughter of Mr. Nor-
man Russell, of Canterbury, and the late
Mrs. Russell, wore a classical gown of
French parchment shantung-faille, with
the fullness of the skirt swept to the back
to form a graceful train. The three-
tiered fingertip tulle veil was held in
place with a Tudor headdress to match
the Tudor pearl-embroidered collar on
the bodice, and she carried a small
bouquet of magnolias. Wendy Glenn,
Margaret Coghill and Elaine Burnham
attended the bride in pale-grey
ballerina frocks with necklines encrusted
with pearls. They wore jewelled cloche
hats and gunmetal shoes, and carried
small sheafs of white hyacinths. The
bridegroom, lan Robertson, elder son of
Mrs. E. H. Coghill, of North Kew, and
of the late Dr. Wyatt Docker, had
Lindsay Docker as best man and Geoff
Thompson and lan Donald ’groomsmen.
After the wedding the bride’s father
received many guests at a dinner-dance
in the Hotel Australia. The bride’s aunt,
Mrs. Reg Russell, from Merimbula
(N.S.W.), wore black sequin-embroidered
tulles ; another aunt, Mrs. H. H. Watt,
chose grey tulle. A sister of the bride,
Mrs. Don Opie, wore a lovely gown of
peacock-blue satin, the skirt of which
had a back-pleated panel. Other guests
included the Jack Steeles, she wearing a
gPwn of white-embroidered pale-honey-
toned Swiss organza, the strapless top
massed with white hyacinths. Pearls,
opalescent sequins and rhinestones em-
broidered the bodice of the magnolia
duchesse-satin gown chosen by Mrs.
George Mendes. Over a short black
faille dinner-gown Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss
draped a white Arctic-fox stole; Mrs.
Geoff Wilson’s short full-skirted frock
was of flame organdie ; Amanda Grim-
wade wore primrose tulle, Deirdre
Neylon a frock of black-and-white taffeta
•£r tfr it
Guests at the dinner-dance held by the
White Wings auxiliary to Prince Henry’s
Hospital on board M.V. Neptunia were
received by the president of the auxiliary,
Mrs. J. T. Lennon (who wore pink-pearl-
and-silver lame), the Italian Vice-Consul,
Dr. V. Bellini, and the president of the
central council of auxiliaries to the hos-
pital, Mrs. W. K. Burnside (her bouffant
gown of emerald-green silk-organza had
a jewelled bodice). Also in the official
party were Mr. and Mrs. L. J. Dooling,
her choice a junior-blue silk-taffeta gown.
Captain L. Cafiero, Mrs. L. A. Santo-
spirito, and the matron of the hospital,
Miss Amy Morgan.
Ticket-secretaries were Mrs. David
Triaca, 'who wore a grey self-spotted
taffeta frock, and Mrs. F. Cincotta,
whose pink nylon-net was mounted on
matching taffeta. Among the dancers
were Mrs, Dante Triaca (who wore with
her black taffeta gown a white starred-
net bolero), Mrs. B, G. Boggio (wearing
a tangerine organza gown), Mrs. J.
Molina (in white flower-printed organza),
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Bryant, the Frank
Marlands, Dr. and Mrs.-Fenton Bowen
and Mrs. Marion Smith.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the premiere at Her Majesty’s of
“Rose Marie on Ice” —yes, the little lady
of the old musicomedy now whizzes over
the Canacfian backwoods on skates —
there was plenty of color on stage: the
vivid scarlet of the Mounties’ coats, the
greens, yellows and reds of the ski-suited
ballet, and the pastel tones seen in the
succession of attractive clothes worn by
a very blonde Rose Marie.
This challenge was accepted by the
audience. Mrs. Tom Carlyon’s flame-
red bouffant tulle ballerina frock was
outstanding; so was the scarlet pleated-
nylon gown worn by Mrs. Leo Curtis.
Mrs. Leo Guest chose grey lace for her
short evening-frock, with pink roses at
the waist. Mrs. Ronald Nott added an
amber-gold satin stole to her ,short black
frock with the hem of the skirt scalloped
and massed with sequins. Also noted
were the Gordon Coulters, Commander
and Mrs. John Bell, Mr. and Mrs, E. A.
Watts, Mr. and Mrs. T. Gunnerson, the
Lou Greens, their son Robert and
daughter Lucille, Mrs. A. G. Warner,
Mrs. Ken Luke, Mrs. R. Smith and Mrs.
A. Swan and her son Adrian.
This classical profile is that of Dame
Sybil Thorndike, one of the great
actresses of the English theatre, who
has played every kind of role from the
she-demon of Grand Guignol to the
model wife and mother . of domestic-
comedy. Because of her great art, Shaw
chose her as the first to portray his St.
Joan. Dame Sybil has a refreshing sense
of humor, and the rare gift of making
those who meet her for the first time
feel as though they had known her for
years.
Highlights of a further recital by Dame
Sybil Thorndike and Sir Lewis Casson
were excerpts from “Henry V”; the
Princess Katherine of France learning
English, and King Henry’s wooing of
her. Lady Brooks, wife of the Governor,
was at this recital, wearing a gown of
black French romaine with a blue-fox
cape. She was accompanied by Mrs.
John Buchan. Also in the audience were
Mrs. John Carrodus, Sir Norman and
Lady Mighell, Dr. and Mrs. Hamley
-Wilson, Mrs. Massey Burnside, Mrs. W.
Seymour, Miss Ella Payne, Lady Grim-
wade and Mr. and Mrs. Timothy
Cousens. .
* ☆ *
Scenes from Alice in Wonderland
formed the decor at Giro’s when the
English Speaking Union Younger Mem-
bers’ Group held a Mad Hatters’ dinner-
dance, proceeds of which go to the
E.S.U. scholarship fund. The hats were
gay and original; Joy Alston’s was a
musical merry-go-round; a small white
platter which sprouted two white-gloved
hands holding a cigarette sat on top of
Mrs. Lewis Lyle’s head; Mrs. Ron
McNaughton’s model was a pink tinsel
Christmas-tree; Judith Martin’s a large
black dice covered with diamente spots;
Jeanne Younger wore a flat white board
as a dinner-table; Cynthia Strachan’s
chapeau depicted the English Test team
playing cricket,
Margot Perry’s impression of Docu-
ment J was attached by means of red
satin ribbons tied under the-chin. An-
other natty idea was a large stiffened
silver-net cage in which were large silver
butterflies. Pam Middleton’s headgear
was original and topical, for she had
Ogg’s veranda (the City Council says it
must come down) perched on her head.
Marguerite Banks and her husband both
wore tall flower-filled baskets.
SYDNEY
A refreshingly new pattern was fol-
lowed at the ball of the United Council
of Migrants, held at the Town Hall on
Friday, when a concert of very high
quality was given before the dancing
started, and later folk-dances in national
costume were interspersed with the usual
waltzes and sambas. One of the experi-
ences of the evening was to hear “God
Save the Queen” sung by a Ukrainian
male-voice choir, unaccompanied and in
harmonv It was interesting too to see
J arm ° I , , lirthtiu in
how the Dutch group dance so lightly in
dent Mr. George de ®“ es f ta ‘
of-honor were thp actmg-Miraster for
toimgration. Mn Howard Beale with
M n' S hhlfd/wpt Mr
well. At the official table also were Mr.
and Mrs. W. C. Wentworth, Mr. and
Mrs. E. D. Darby, Mr, and Mrs. Lyle
Moore, Commander and Mrs. C. B. Win-
cott. Dr. and Mrs. Tom Bateman, Mr.
and Mrs. James Dickson, Mr. and Mrs.
Martin Halas and Miss Arline Lower.
☆ ☆ ☆
„ 7 .,, _ _ . . ~ f ..
With flags flying in the hg . 7
breeze which blew across last Su y
suriden summers day , the elevated play-
mg-fidd of St. Aloysius College ringed
with flame-trees m bloom, made a-dehght-
ful setting f°r the ceremonial para e a
garden-party held m honor of e -
lege’s 75th anniversary year. The Gov-
ernor-General, Sir William Shm, w
took the salute, said that this was ne
of the best turned-out cadet corps a
he had seen, and when presenting e
trophy to Corporal Terry Connaghan,
who was judged best-dressed cadet, he
said, “Don’t let anyone tell you that you
have to be scruffy to be a good soldier.”
Sir William and Lady Slim met many of
the young people and their parents per-
sonally, and Sir William won himself a
really heartfelt cheer with his request to
the rector of the college that the boys
should all be given an extra day’s holiday,
This look of lively intelligence belongs
to author Barbara Jefferis, whose novel
“Contango Day” has just reached the
bookshelves in Sydney. Since sharing
first prize in the “Sydney Morning
Herald’s” novel competition in 1952
“Contango Day” has been published in
America in 1953 as “Undercurrent” and
in England in May of this year. First
called “Return Via Canterbury,” the
novel was given its present title, which is
a stock-exchange term meaning “the day
before settling,” by the English publishers.
Miss Jefferis probably owes her desire
to be a writer, treasured from early child-
hood, from her grandfather. Dr. James
Jefferis, many of whose writings are
preserved in the Mitchell Library, and
who was in charge of Sydney’s Pitt-street
Congregational Church before moving
to Adelaide, where Miss Jefferis was
brought up and where her father, Mr.
Tarlton Jefferis, still lives (at Encounter
Bay).
rp. * ~ Vnn „ 7n „„ „
T n • u ■ tu ?
writing of novels and for the W
documentaries, dramatised features and
a children’s serial, “The Farm Without
a Name.” She has spent four years in
research, which she particularly likes, on
her second novel, now in the hands of the
publisher. Set in the 15th century, it is
built around the love-story of Margery
Paston, mentioned in the famous Paston
Letters of the period. Miss Jeffris is
in private life Mrs. John Hinde, and has
a 10-year-old daughter, Lindy. Photo by
Hugh Spencer.
Nine high-schools and domestic-science
schools competed in the English Speaking
Union’s debating contest in which the
finalists. North Sydney Girls’ High and
Newcastle Girls’ High, were heard last
Wednesday. Victory went to North Syd-
ney by a narrow margin, but all the girls
were congratulated by Dr. Robert Regala
(who said that he had heard many a
judge in a court-of-law sum-up with less
aplomb) and by the adjudicators, Mrs.
H. T. Glover and Mr. Ernest Burbridge.
Mr. Burbridge said that he was amazed
at the quality of the delivery of these
young girls and by the marshalling of
their arguments. Representing North
Sydney were Sheila Smith, Ann Whight
and Jeanette Thirlwell; for Newcastle
Elizabeth O’Connell, Elizabeth Sweet and
Marilyn Russell spoke. The trophy, a
bronze statue, “The Runners,” was pre-
sented by Mrs. Vernon Cole when the
contest was inaugurated 10 years ago.
☆ ☆ *
Great - granddaughter of William
Macleod, of The Bulletin, Barbara
Macleod-Jones, was married during the
week to John Heathwood, only son of
Mr. and Mrs. S. Heathwood, of Hurst-
ville. Formerly a kindergarten teacher
at M.L.C., Burwood, Barbara was
married on the 26th anniversary of her
parents’ marriage, and carried for
“something old” an all-over lace hand-
kerchief made and carried by her
maternal great-grandmother in 1873. She
wore white figured-organza and her
bridesmaids, Sibyl Macleod - Jones,
Bernice Macleod-Jones and Margaret
Parr, wore rainbow-panelled tulle over
taffeta. The two small flower-girls were
Susan Macleod-Jones and Margaret
Pollock.
☆ ☆ t3r
The Black and White Ball committee’s
spring and summer fashion preview at
the Royal Blind Society gained a really
springlike and summery effect through
its unusually attractive decor, a white
door with a black wrought-iron knocker,
a candy-striped awning, a rich red carpet
and banks of pink, purple and white
cyclamens, Mrs. R. H. Allen officially
welcomed the guests, Mrs. C. B. Wincott
(whose little blue bow in the hair is a
charming signature) greeted all at the
door. Committee-members who took
part in the parade were Mrs. R. H.
Berrick, of Palm Beach, Jennifer Chap-
man and Beth Campbell. Selling pro-
grammes were Marcia Moses, Sue Play-
fair and Jill Campbell. The dresses shown
were by Hilda Herz, and the proceeds
will go, through the ball funds, to the
Royal Blind Society. A special merit-
mark should go to the pianist who pro-
vided music sweet, pervasive but not com-
petitive—virtues seldom to be found in
fashion-parade music.
☆ ☆ ☆
The first dinner-dance to be given by
the Women’s Pioneer Society was
attended by about 60 members and their
friends last week. Mrs. Wentworth
Grayson had Mrs. G. W. Hellicar and
Mrs. R. Vallack, just returned from oyer
three years abroad, to help her receive
the guests. President of the younger set,
Elizabeth Lindeman, was there, also
Margaret Gustafsen and her fiancd Ron
Swain, Judy Sengelman, Pam Kelly,
Ailsa Mcßae, Mary Hall, Margaret
Bourke and her brother Geoff, Frank
Taplin with Judy Pearce, Michael Ney
with Dickie Vallack, James Broun, Roger
Nalder, Harry Bell, Dr. and Mrs. Max
Halliday, Mr. and Mrs. S. Furley and
their son Brian, who escorted Joyce
Chatfield.
☆ * *
Interesting feature of the Royal Empire
Society’s new coffee-lounge are the model-
ships which have been lent by the Ship-
lovers’ Society through the courtesy of
Sir James Bissett, its president. They
include Captain Cook’s barque H.M.S.
Endeavour, the Cutty Sark and the three-
masted barque Wathara, the model of
which was built by Captain Findlay Mur-
chison, who was for five years in com-
mand of the ship. Allied to the primrose
decor, the parquet flooring and the maga-
zine-racks, the ships give an atmosphere
of restfulness and beauty,
☆ ☆ *
The Elizabethan Theatre Trust has
well passed its £lOO,OOO mark with the
£25,000 given by the Commonwealth
Government, and now the director,
Dr. H. C. Coombs, will seek the
patronage of the Queen for the Trust,
which is to commemorate her visit to
Australia. Those who wish to contribute
to the Trust should do so before the end
of August, because the Commonwealth
Government has also offered to subsidise
every donation during that period at the
rate of £1 for each £3 subscribed.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
’•TV:
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Public Notice
I, JURGIS MBDGARDAS MIKSEVIOIUS,
of Lithuanian nationality, born in
Sauliai, Lithuania, resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 126 Fiddens
Wharf Road, Killara, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
HOMESTEADS AND COUNTRY
cottages TO YOUR DESIGN
ifsm mm >
WwwvN Sw •■ •ww.’ .. ••■ >•:
mm-.Z
■ -
Above:—A Bowas 2-storey homestead situated in North-West Queensland
BOWAS patented CONSTRUCTION
offers you these advantages —
The simplicity and ease of timber-
frame construction plus the strength,
rigidity and durability of steel.
A solid, permanent structure not
affected by dry rot or white ants.
A building easily dismantled,
re-erected or added to.
Consult our architects for any floor
plan and design, single or two storey,
for Bowas Homesteads, Country
Cottages and Rural Accommodation
buildings.
★
BOWAS
features—
Patented steel •
wood-steel frame
members, precision
cut to size and
assembled by
bolting.
All walls inside
and out — flooring,
roofing, etc. nailed
on as in timber-
frame construction.
BOWAS CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
Manufacturers of fhe famous Sidney Williams Sfeel-Fraim buildings
Williams Parade (Off Constitution Rd.), Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. LM5204, LM7886
In Qld.: 108 Colchester St., South Brisbane. J 4833
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Sybil Thorndike
I first heard Sybil Thorndike
40 years ago in London. She
was then doing, if I remember
rightly, Shakspeare and other
classics at the Old Vic. I heard
her again 27 years ago at Mel-
bourne King’s. She did St. Joan,
written for her by Shaw, fCap-
tain Brassbound’s Conversion,”
“Macbeth” and “Medea.”
I heard her again the other
evening, with her 79-year-old
husband, Sir Lewis Casson, at
the Assembly Hall in Mel-
bourne without stage-effects or
costumes —only a table and two
chairs and not even a glass of
water, and only the quality of
her discourse' to differentiate
things from a political meeting
—doing bits of Shakspeare,
Shaw, Euripides and Kipling,
Clemence Dane and 16th-cen-
tury balladists and so forth.
Her vitality was amazing. It
wasn’t merely a physical vitality,
though she had plenty of that.
It had an intellectual quality
about it, and so did her com-
mentaries on her various pieces.
She seemed to be able to
identify herself with the tortured
feelings of Medea, urged on by
a sense of justice to murder her
own children, with Marie Hamil-
ton, in the old Scottish ballad,
who went to her own execution
thinking she was going to a
wedding, and with St. Joan in
the only two passages Shaw put
into her mouth that didn’t come
from her own documented state-
ments.
Dame Sybil made Lord Bur-
leigh and Queen Elizabeth live,
as well as the little serving-maid
of a Belloc ballad. And Sir
Lewis did the same thing in the
“Carcassone” ballad about the
old peasant who dreams of the
wonders of the distant city and
happily dies before he sees the
motor-cars and concrete pave-
ments.
Age hasn’t dulled a scrap
Dame Sybil’s vitality and fresh-
ness, and it has only dulled Sir
Lewis’s voice a trifle —one re-
members his superlative per-
formance as the Inquisitor in
“St. Joan,” the longest argu-
ment in drama.
M. G. S.
Iturbi
It was patent that the big
majority of the audience which
packed Sydney Tivoli on Friday
night had gone not so much to
hear a concert-pianist as to gaze
ecstatically upon a Hollywood
star of many a musical.
Their enthusiasm for applause
knew no bounds; they vocifer-
ously acclaimed every pause be-
tween movements, and even
climactic pauses during move-
ments. And in between they
determinedly endeavored to
match the piano’s volume with
salvos of pulmonary barkings.
It says much for the pianist’s
philosophic outlook that he
accepted all this without turning
a hair.
Iturbi insisted, in fact, on
being the completely orthodox
concert-pianist, and a very good
one. He went on from a very
precise, very correct reading of
Mozart’s A Major Sonata, with
its haunting set of six theme-
variations and its famous Rondo
Alla Turca, to Schumann’s
Symphonic Studies, meaty music
into which he sank his teeth with
gusto.
There followed Brahms's
Paganini Variations, through
which severe test, both of tech-
nique and interpretation, he
emerged unscathed.
There was excellent quality in
his playing of two Ravel pieces:
“Pavane for a Dead Infanta”
and “Jeux d’Eau” ; and in the
music of his compatriots
Albeniz, De Falla and
he evoked the Spanish scene with
a maximum of fire and high-
speed digital accuracy.
&
Melbourne Youth Concert
Annotating freely and with
his usual elegance, Bernard
Heinze carried the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra and a
Town Hallful of Melbourne
adolescents through Richard
Strauss’s “Till Eulenspiegel,” the
introduction to the third act of
“Tristan and Isolde,” and
Beethoven’s Eighth.
Two individual performances
were the highlights of this latest
Youth Concert. Tamara Coates
arrested the attention of the
audience with a thrilling per-
formance of the solo part for
cor anglais in the Wagner item,
and Roger Holmes made it sit
up again with his eloquent
achievement at the piano in the
Khachaturian Concerto, a task
that the most accomplished vir-
tuoso finds not easy. Seventeen,
and until lately in short pants,
master Roger played the savage
music with great force and a
touch of ornateness.
<£♦ <4
“The Lady’s Not for
Burning”
A Brisbane performance of
this Christopher Fry comedy
was reviewed on this page a
few weeks ago and found good ;
now the Genesians have come
up with an excellent version of
it in Sydney.
It is, of course, a graceful
and sparkling verse-play set
somewhere about 1400 in the
market-town of Cool Clary,
which is rather flummoxed by
the arrival of Thomas Mendip,
a young but world-weary ex-
soldier who invents a couple of
murders and demands to be
hanged for them. His arrival
coincides with the apprehension
of a lovely young creature
accused of witchcraft, who is as
anxious not to be burned as
Mendip is to be hanged.
The Genesians give it a nicely
valued production, beautifully
set and dressed per favor of
Philip Hickie and Eileen Larkin.
If the sparkle occasionally blurs,
the fault would seem to lie
more with the author than the
players. In the second act, par-
ticularly, despite the lightness
and the fun, there is a notice-
able depression while Thomas
and the lovely Janet philoso-
phise at some length ; there are
hints of verbosity, and the effort
behind the art shows through.
Possibly the high, sharp tones
of an Olivier could conceal it,
but even that is doubtful, and,
anyway, it would be hard to
cavil at Bruce Stewart’s perform-
ance as Mendip. He carries his
beard and manner very well and
contrives to get quite a lot of
arrogance, impatience and in-
tensity into a pleasantly casual
style of acting. Altogether a
very good reading of the role.
Likewise Phillipa Baker as
Janet-dark and quite lovely
and touched with enough of the
eternal feminine mystery to
justify both her arrest for
witchcraft and Thomas’s deci-
sion to live.
Kevin Brennan’s bumbling,
asthmatic mayor; Aileen Brit-
ton’s serenely untroubled per-
formance as his sister; Peter
Kenna’s shy young clerk;
Adrian Borzell’s justice; John
Kernahan’s rag-and-bone mer-
chant and Barbara Maxwell’s
bewildered bride are all admir-
able contributions.
&
“Countess Maritza”
The Australian Light Opera
Company’s “Countess Maritza,”
presented at the Rockdale (Syd-
ney) Town Hall, had two
talented principals in Margaret
and Rodney Smith, an
adequate orchestra when it
wasn’t playing too loudly and
some vigor in production. But,
like most other amateur light-
opera performances, it followed
too closely a stereotyped pat-
tern ; to see one is to see
practically all.
For instance, John Gardiner,
who played effectively a “kind
old man” in the recent “Student
Prince,” was the same “kind old
man” in this show, while the
comic lines and business of most
of these operas could be trans-
ferred from one to the other
without the change being
noticed.
Pleasant as these productions
are, they’d be more valuable and
rewarding if greater adventur-
ousness were shown in selecting
the piece and greater originality
in presenting it. .
*l* *l* *
“Dark Secret”
John Watson’s “Dark Secret”
isn’t too well constructed, and,
at its opening performance at
the Metropolitan, Sydney, was
treated to an indifferent per-
formance in which Melpo Zara-
costa was the only credible
character and William Bain the
only clearly audible one.
It’s all about an artist’s love
for a girl of whom his snob-
bish mother disapproves. That
the girl also has an irate and
jealous ex-lover* merely distracts
from the main issue. In the last
scene the mother puts the kibosh
on the romance with some
steaming revelations about the
girl.
The last scene is then replayed
from a recording device of some
sort, while the heroine paws and
stamps with Hollywood anguish
as a prelude to suicide.
Artbursts
Up once more for inspection
at .the Athenaeum Gallery, Mel-
bourne, the young Latvian artist
Ludmilla Meilerts. She has
sensibility and talent, but an
inadequate technique, which
probably explains her inability
to paint a portrait, and her
equally conspicuous inability to
paint a gum-tree. Although she
can obviously feel the color in a
landscape her colors don’t sing
when she puts them down on
canvas, except when she comes
to paint the Yarra. In No. 38
she gives so much of the variety
and movement of the dockside
that you can almost smell it.
“Sunny Day” is another effective
glimpse of the same stream.
*X* ■£♦
Kit Turner, showing oils at
the Kosminsky Gallery, Mel-
bourne, has cast a roving and
sometimes sensitive eye over a
wide stretch of Australian land-
scape and coastscape, from
North Queensland, through
N. S. Wales to the Victorian
highlands. “Cremorne Street”
and “Across the River” are fresh
and lively.
Talkies
“Laughing Anne”
This, at Melbourne Esquire,
is a story that anybody could
have written, though it purports
to be based on Joseph Conrad.
The English skipper of a small
steamer trading between Singa-
pore and Java is in love with
his wife, but she doesn’t like the
sea and refuses to accompany
him on a voyage. He protects a
sing-song girl in a cabaret from
her brutal boss, a crippled ex-
boxer, and she smuggles herself
aboard the steamer.
The story and the steamer
make leisurely progress through
the Java Sea while the sailor and
the girl make attenuated passes
at one another, and it all ends up
in a big fight and Conrad himself
moralising about “good” and
“bad.”
Wendell Corey and Margaret
Lockwood are the two distracted
lovers. Being in technicolor, the
sea looks as magnificent as a
Conrad description of it.
*l* *t* ♦>
New Sydney Releases:
“The Marriage of Figaro”
(Savoy): A German production
which, as well as capturing the
gay charm of the Beaumarchais
comedy, contains some exquisite
Mozattian singing, principally
by Erna Berger, Willi Fass-
baender and Mathieu Ahlers-
meyer. Full justice is due to the
lovely score by the Berlin State
Orchestra.
“Beat the Devil” (Mayfair):
Robert Morley leads a gang of
international conspirators who
plan to seize a uranium-mine
supposedly owned by an English
playboy (Edward Underdown)
and his overimaginative, talka-
tive wife (Jennifer Jones).
Crime - cum - hilarity, carried
through by director John
Huston on a high note.


Brief Memorial
by John K. Ewers
VOU’D go a long way before
meeting a nicer cove than
big “Babe” Jorgensen was
when first we got to know
him.
It wasn’t anything he said that
made you like him. Thinking
back now, it’s hard to remember
him saying much at all. He was
always willing to help with some
job or other.
“Ya! I’ll do it, all right!”
he’d say.
There was the time young Alf
Colson was lost in the bush and
all hands turned out to look for
him. Babe said,
“Jus’ lemme get dese boots on.
I’ll be right wid you.”
It wasn’t what he said. It was
how he said it, as if something
good inside him came out in that
enormous great grin of his that
spread right across his face.
I think maybe we liked him
most of all because he was so big
and yet so gentle. That’s why
we called him Babe. He stood
six-feet-four in his socks, he had
a chest on him like a ten-gallon
keg, and his hands when they
clamped down on a log riding
towards the saw looked like the
steel jaws of a coal-shovel.
He was a superman in the eyes
of all the kids. They followed
him round, admiring his big-
boned body as if they thought
to themselves that was how
they’d like to be when they fpew
up. Visitors to the mill used
to stand gaping at him man-
handling those huge logs on the
saw-bench as if they were bits
of three-by-two. They all fell
for Babe the moment they met
him. And as for those of us who
worked with him, well, I reckon
you could say we all loved that
big, blond, good - natured
Scandiwegian,
Then we all got to hating him.
"VCAYBE you reckon that
wasn’t very consistent of
us. Maybe it wasn’t. But you’ve
got to understand the set-up
down at Bermingham’s to get the
thing straight.
If you’ve ever lived in a
timber-town you’ll know some-
thing about what I’m driving at.
It’s a built-in, closed-in sort of
existence. The mill’s in a bit of
clearing surrounded by trees
two- and ftiree-hundred-feet
high. They make you feel like
ants, those trees. And all out
in the bush there’s bracken and
karri-wattle and other scrub
growing like mad, and fighting
with each other like kids at a
bunfight. After a bit you get
to feeling that way, too —as if
someone’s trying to beat you
down. All sorts of jealousy and
envy and bitterness eat into you
because you keep feeling the
other chap’s trying to put one
over you.
Then there’s the boss. He
holds all the cards in a place like
that, and if he’s a nasty piece of
work he can well-and-truly
trump your ace. But our boss
wasn’t a - bad sort. He mixed
freely with everybody because it
paid to do so, and yet he
managed to remain apart from us
all, living in a world of his own.
We didn’t love J. B. Bermingham
—or J. 8., as we always called
him—the way we loved Babe;
but we respected him.
He’d started from scratch
thirty years before, and had built
the mill up into something of a
show-place. He even cleared a
flat space for a sports-ground
and racecourse. They used to
have race-meetings once a year
with jockeys and bookmakers all
the way down from the city.
Other times there were sports-
meetings and picnics for the kids.
and old J.B. was never mean
with the prizes he gave.
He built a school and paid half
the teacher’s salary so the kids
could get some education. Later
on he built a church and took
up the collection at the fort-
nightly service when the parson
came out from Kingarup. That
amused us a bit because, one
way and another, old J.B. was a
pretty tough sort of a citizen.
He lived in the big house with
his wife and his only daughter,
Ellie. We never saw much of
Mrs. Bermingham, but knew her
for a quiet, soft-spoken little
woman. Ellie was a rather hard
piece. She’d gone off down to
college and come back full of
self-importance. She made us
feel she was a cut above every-
one else down there. We often
wondered why, if she felt that
way, she didn’t get married and
clear out. Reckon she had lots
of chances; there were always
young fellows coming down and
staying there, playing tennis with
her on the public court her old
man had put down. fiut no,
she didn’t seem to be able to
catch one of them.
Down in those milhtowns
there’s not much happens you
don’t know about. We knew
a good deal about old J.B. that
would have probably surprised
some of his high and mighty
visitors —top businessmen from
the city, members of Parliament,
and the like. He was a lusty old
man even at the time I’m talking
about, but in-, his younger days—
well,* when your wife gives you
only one child, and a girl at that,
you sort of look around. That’s
what J.B. did.
It’s not easy to pin this down,
but the older hands could all
remember how the day after Mrs.
Motter had her baby her
husband, Jim, got a rise. When
they chipped him about it he
just shrugged his shoulders. It
was the same with Alec Graham,
Bill Moore and Tony Tollen.
All no-hopers, the three of them,
yet they got rises after their wives
had a youngster.
That was years back, and at the
time I’m talking of, the time
Babe Jorgensen was with us as
No, 1 henchman, those four boys
were grown up and all working
for J.B. Young Motter was a
faller out in the bush, Graham
and Moore were stackers, and
the Tollen boy was on the
timber-train.
It was none of our business.
These things happen, and down
among the big timber they
happen a bit more often, that’s
all. (
T>UT down there, too, in that
hemmed-in sort of atmo-
sphere, legends start in a
mysterious way, and, like the
undergrowth in the bush, they
take root and they’re mighty
hard to get rid of. *
Our big legend was the one
about the will. It’s hard to say
how that started, but it was
pretty firmly fixed in everyone’s
mind.
If you asked me where it came
from in the first place, I’d say
from little Sam Quirk. No one
could ever remember Sam hav-
ing said anything about it. But
there wasn’t much Sam didn’t
know. He was J.B.’s book-
keeper and he ran the store.
What we all believed about the
will was, this: the old man—
that’s old J.8.-—had drawn up
a will which left one-fifth of his
property to Ellie and the other
four-fifths to these four natural
sons of his—young Motter,
Graham, Moore and Tollen.
Sounds fantastic, but there it is,
and we never for a moment
doubted it was so.
Well, now, you’ve got the set-
up. There we all are, doing our
jobs each day, living as we’d
lived for years, buying our food
and clothes through the mill-
store, and now and then having
a skinful of beer at weekends
in Kingarup, twelve miles away.
There’s Babe Jorgensen with us
as No. 1 Behchmail and every-
thing going smooth and nice, old
J.B. giving us a fair crack of the
whip, and what he did with his
spare-time in the past or his
fortune in the future we couldn’t
care less!
«
VS7ELL, one morning we go
' ’ * down and Babe isn’t there.
Dick Bentley, the foreman, goes
up to his camp and he’s not in
his camp. His truck’s not there,
either. While we’re still sorting
this out, old J.B. comes tearing
down the track, and wants to
know why the hell we’re all
standing about doing nothing.
When Bentley tells him, he
roars,
“All right, all right! Can’t
the bloody mill run without
Babe? Put Coleman on the
bench and get going.”
And off he goes, storming and
cursing up the path to the store.
I’d been waiting for him to come
down to discuss with him a
certain order for some scantlings
that was bothering us, but he
was in no mood to be approached
just then. So I followed a little
way behind him. I saw him go
to the front-door of the store,
then round to the back. I went
to the front, too.
The door was shut, which was
odd, to say the least of it, for
Sam Quirk was always on the
job bright and early. I got
round the back just in time to
hear J.B. shout,
“In the name of God! ”
And then he stopped. I
sneaked up to the edge of the
window of the office and looked
id. The room looked as if a
willy-willy had hit it. The safe-
door was open and there were
papers everywhere. And there
in the middle of it all was Sam
Quirk tied with rope to his office-
chair and a gag in his mouth.
J.B. whipped out a knife, cut
the cords and removed the gag.
“Now tell me exactly how
long you’ve been sitting there
like a stuffed morepork! ” he
yelled.
I stepped back a pace so that
they couldn’t see me. But I
could hear every word through
the thin weatherboard wall. It
was quite a bit before Sam said
anything. Then he croaked,
“Mr. Bermingham ... a
drink . . . for God’s sake! ”
I heard J.B. pouring something
into a glass—whisky, I dare say,
I’d often had a nip with Sam
up there in the office. I waited,
and presently Sam said,
“It was that Babe. His big
hands. I couldn’t do anything.
He made me open the safe.
They took everything worth
taking.”
“They? Who’s they?” asked
J.B.
“There’s a letter for you,” Said
Sam,
I sneaked a bit closer and saw
J.B. take a letter off the table.
I watched him read it, saw him
sort of stiffen. For a moment I
thought he was going to explode.
He gripped the edge of the table
with both hands and looked at
Sam, and said,
“Where’s the will?”
“That was the first thing she
looked for,” said Sam. “She
made me open the safe. She
threw things out till she found
it. Then she leaned up against
that table and read the will, .‘Just
as you told me. Babe,’ she said.”
“What did she do with it?”
asked J.B,
“She put it in her bag,” said
Sam,
I thought the old man was
going to blow his top then. But
he said in a cold, thin sort of
voice, like a knife the way it cut
into my ears,
“And you stood by and let
her?”
It was Sam who blew his top.
He fairly yelled,
“What could I do? What
could I do? That big Babe, he
had one arm round my chest and
one hand over my mouth. He
held me while she tied me up
and gagged me. He took all the
money and Ellie wrote that letter.
Then they left. I couldn’t do
anything, Mr. Bermingham. So
help me, I couldn’t.”
TTP to this moment I was in a
bit of a fog, but suddenly
it all came clear. Babe and
Ellie! The sweat started to run
out of me and I stepped back
into the shade of a tank. I took
out a handkerchief and wiped
my face. Inside I heard J.B.’s
voice, not loud, but very
earnest.
“Stop yelling! ” he said. “Now
listen, Sam. Clear this mess up.
Lock the safe and get the store
open in ten minutes. And not
one word of this to a single living
soul, d’ you hear?” Then his
voice got even softer. There was
a note of pleading in it, tears
almost. “Sam . .. my girl’s gone
off with that big Swede. Maybe
they’re married by now, and I’ll
not do anything about it. She’s
made her bed. But that’s all.
Nothing else has happened, see?
You haven’t been tied-up all
night. The safe hasn’t been
robbed. You can do that for an
old man, Sam?”
I didn’t wait to hear what Sam
said. I shot over to a clump of
tamarisks, thick and green, and
from behind their cover saw the
old man come out of the back-
door and walk away towards the
Big House on the hill. He walked
slowly, his shoulders drooped,
as if the weight on his mind was
too heavy for him to bear. I’d
never seen him like that before.
Old J.B. must have been close on
seventy, but he was as upright as
a young karri sapling. Now he
was just a tired old man. Once
he paused as if wondering what
to do. Then he went on ever so
slowly up to the house and I
lost sight of him,
I sat down just where I was.
Reckon I was feeling my years a
bit, too, at that irioment. 'My
mind wasn’t working any too
clearly, and I wanted to think
over what I’d just heard. The
old man had told Sam he wasn’t
to tell a soul about it. And I
knew! I was bursting to tell
everyone. Yet I realised I’d have
to keep my mouth shut, at least
until it got about. Even then,
how much did I dare to tell?
Babe and Ellie, Babe and Ellie.
The words kept going round and
round inside me. Babe and Ellie
and the will!
“Suffering Judas!” I said to
myself. “There must have been
something in it, after all. But,
Babe and that sour bitch
After, about half an hour I
got my wind back again and
went down to the mill as if
nothing had happened. I heard
the drone of the saws, saw Cole-
man at the bench as I got closer,
and went round to the yard to
supervise the stacking. No one
asked any questions, so I didn't
have to say anything.
It was Mrs. Bentley who
brought the news to the mill.
She came down with Dick’s
crib, and I saw them whispering
together. Dick came straight
round to me.
“Reckon you know about
Babe and Ellie?” he said. “You
were up at the store.”
“I don’t know anything
official,” I said. “Just that they
cleared out. What did the missus
tell you?”
“Just that,” he said. “Sam
told her when she went across to
the store. Funny business, isn’t
it?”
I agreed it was. At crib-time
everyone was talking about it.
Most of them reckoned it was
another feather in Babe’s cap.
He’d pulled a swiftie over the
old man. Good old Babe! ‘ At
the same time, some of the chaps
wondered how it would work
out.
“He’s welcome to her for
mine,” said Bert Coleman. “A
man would be frozen cold,
sleepin’ next to that dame.”
“Ah, you’re only jealous,
Bert,” Steve Walker chivvied
him.«
“Me, jealous? Not on your
life. I’ll bet she’ll wipe that grin
off his dial. See if she don’t.”
Frankly, we didn’t know what
to make of it. We felt glad and
sorry for Babe. We felt a bit
sorry for ourselves, too. Without
o Continued on page 22)


A PRODUCT til- Ini
GROUP
3HX OX XNHWXNIOddV AS
ssm
I
LATE KING GEORGE VI.
MOTOR CAR MANUFACTURERS HUMBER LTD,
The lowest priced
BIG CAR
In Australia
■
I
r-J
m
1
|i:S
■■
' » ;
a j
i
r
.■
□
*
.■
I y
■
V '-A
v:
71
HUMBER HAWK
Praised lor its beauty prized for its economy
AMPLE LUGGAGE SPACE for all
family needs —a deep, wide compartment
with rubber covered floor. Lid lifts right up
out of the way for easy stowage. Spare
wheel is placed vertically—just roll it out —
>easy, quick and clean.
PRICE
plus sales tax
BIG IN EVERY WAY
Make no mistake, the Humber Hawk is big in every way.
Compare its weight 27 cwt. one big reason for its
outstanding road comfort and safety.
AMAZING ECONOMY
The amazing low price of the Hawk, its low petrol con-
sumption and flashing top gear performance make it the
logical choice Tor people who want to enjoy big car space,
comfort and luxury at the lowest cost.
PLEASING DETAILS
Big car quality and luxury in the Humber tradition stand
out in a dozen different ways neat press button door
handles, automatic lighting of the spacious interior as the
doors open, superb leather upholstered seats, soft central
folding arm rests, carpeted floors, neat locked glove com-
partment, electric clock, and so many other pleasing details.
A trial is yours for the asking —without obligation of course.
fcOOTES
6ROOR SERViCE
DEALERS DISPLAY THIS SIGN
PRODUCED IN THE FACTORY OF ROOTES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED, FISHERMEN’S BEND, PORT MELBOURNE.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR HUMBER LIMITED
QUEENSLAND : John McGrath Motors (Qld.) Pty. Ltd., 324 Wickham
Street, The Valley, Brisbane. L 4871
NEW SOUTH WALES : John McGrath Motors (Pty.) Ltd., 255-259
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 6838
VICTORIA ; Neal’s Motors Pty. Ltd., 222 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
FB 3481.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Commercial Motor Vehicles Ltd., 165 Franklin
Street, Adelaide. LA 2201
WEST AUSTRALIA : Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd., 900 Hay Street,
Perth. BA 9361,
TASMANIA : D. L. Hollis Motors Pty. Ltd., York and St. John Streets,
Launceston. Tel. 1676.


Commonwealth of of Labour and National Service
REGISTRATION FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE NATIONAL SERVICE ACT 195 J-1953
BRITISH SUBJECTS anil HEW AUSTRALIANS
THE UNDERMENTIONED MALE PERSONS ORDINARILY RESIDENT IN AUS-
TRALIA AND NOT EXEMPT UNDER THE ACT FROM LIABILITY TO REGISTER
ARE REQUIRED TO REGISTER BETWEEN
23rd AUGUST and 6th SEPTEMBER, 1954
BRITISH SUBJECTS
who have attained or will attain the age of 18 years
between Ist July, 1954, and 31st December, 1954,
inclusive
NEW AUSTRALIANS
(HOT BEING BRITISH SUBJECTS)
AND NATURALIZED BRITISH SUBJECTS NOT ALREADY REGISTERED
Male Per s °n s who are not British Subjects, and Naturalized
British Subjects not already registered, who attained the age
of J 8 years between IST SEPTEMBER, 1953, and 31ST
AUGUST^^I nc i us ' ve ) and were in Australia on 17TH
A person who intends to make his home in Australia Is regarded as
ordinarily resident in Australia as from the time of his arrival. A person
who is absent from Australia during the period within which he is required
to register, must register within 14 days after his return.
ANY PERSON WHO IS REQUIRED TO REGISTER AND WHO FAILS TO
DO SO IS LIABLE TO THE PENALTIES PRESCRIBED UNDER THE ACT.
EXEMPTIONS
The only exemptions from liability to register are:
Persons on full-time duty with the Permanent Defence Forces,
(W Diplomatic personnel specified in Section 18 of the Act,
(c) Aboriginal natives of Australia including half-castes, and persons of
aboriginal extraction living as aborigines.
HOW TO REGISTER
Registration Forms (Forms N.S. 1) are available at all Money Order Post
Offices and District Employment Offices. Addresses of the latter offices are
in telephone directories. Detailed instructions on how to register are in the
Registration Form and the Sheet (N.S.IA) attached to it.
N.5.R.2.93.74
Babe there, Bermingham’s mill
wouldn’t be the same place.
But we hadn’t heard anything
yet! Just before knock-off time
for lunch, Sam Quirk came half-
running down to the mill. He
said something to the foreman.
I wasn’t near enough to hear
what it was. But I was near
enough to hear Bentley say,
“God! The old man!”
He went straight round to the
fireman, Joe Willis.
“Cut off the steam, Joe,” he
said, “J.B.’s dead.”
TOE looked at him as if he’d
** gone suddenly mad, but he
did as he was told. Then the
mill-whistle let out a long, sus-
tained wail. It was repeated
three times. Men stopped what
they were doing, looked at one
another, then at their watches.
It wanted ten minutes to knock-
off time. That’s how we heard
about the death of the old man.
It seems, the way Sam told it,
just after he reached the house
J.B. keeled over. Mrs. Berming-
ham sent a message to Sam to
ring through to Kingarup for
the doctor. Sam rang through,
then hurried to the house. He
knew, the moment he saw him,
that it wasn’t a doctor J.B, was
needing.
I can’t properly describe how
all this affected us. Babe clear-
ing out with Ellie would have
been a seven-days wonder in
itself. But the death of J.B. was
different. It was almost frighten-
ing. The shock of it seemed to
swirl round and round the little
clearing as if it couldn’t get out
through the wall of trees. Babe
wasn’t really one of us. Ellie
we’d never cared two damns
about. But old J. 8., although
he had to die for us to realise it,
was the beginning and the end of
everything as far as the mill was
concerned. We tried to figure out
what would happen without him
there. Our minds just blurred in
the attempt.
As for me, well, T’d over-
heard that conversation between
the old man and Sam. I knew
just what had taken place and I
couldn’t tell a soul about it.
Of course, we all went into
Kingarup for the funeral, and
there as large as life were Ellie
and Babe. No one knew how
far they’d got before the news
reached them, but it was far
enough, as we learned later, to
get married by special licence.
I think it was the sight of him
at the funeral, not with the rest
of us where he rightly belonged,
but among the chief mourners,
that made us begin to feel sore
about him.
Bentley, the foreman, and five
others who were longest in
J.B.’s service acted as pall-
bearers. But Babe stood next to
Ellie at the open graveside as the
parson read the funeral service.
When it was over, they were the
first two to step up and stare
down at the coffin. Babe picked,
up a handful of earth and
dropped it in. He did it with
that simple, kindly grace for
which we had loved him in the
past. But somehow it didn't
seem right for him to be doing
it now.
At the weekend, the “Southern
Herald” came out with two
columns on the front-page. It
gave J.B. a great build-up. Not
that he didn’t deserve it in his
own way, but the editor certainly
went to town about him. He
was one of the country’s most
worthy sons, a nation-builder, a
pioneer in every sense of the
word. We lapped it up, although
we could have told that same
editor a few things he probably
wouldn’t have been game to
print. But what really rocked us
was the concluding sentence:
“It is understood the late Mr.
Bermingham died intestate .”
I remember old . Dick
Simmonds coming to me with
the paper in his hand.
“You’ve had a bit of educa-
tion,” he said. “What's this ’ere
word—-intestate? ”
When I told him, he nodded
his head slowly.
‘“That’s what I thought,” he
said. Then he looked at me like
a youngster whose most
cherished belief has been shat-
tered. “But what about the
will?”
“There isn’t any will,” I told
him.
“Then who’ll get it all?”
“Oh, I don’t know. Mrs.
Bermingham, I suppose. 'And
after her, Ellie ...”
“And that great big bastard
of a Babe?”
“He might get some interest
through Ellie later on,” I told
him.
“And those four poor' boys
don’t get a damn’ thing?”
“That’s right.”
Everyone looked at it in the
same way. It was useless to
argue that Babe was really in
no way to blame. There was no
will, and Babe running off with
Ellie didn’t make the slightest
difference. Again, I was unable
to tell what I knew. In fact, I
was unwilling to do so, for at
that time when everyone in the
place was suddenly bitter against
Babe, I was beginning to feel
sorry for him. A word from me
just then would have settled
his hash for good and all. So I
just kept quiet and waited to
see how it would all work out.
AND I didn’t have long to
wait. With Babe taking oyer
as manager and wandering
rather vaguely about the mill,
there was an immediate
slackening-off.
The men resented him and the
good-natured grin with which he
tried to cover his own muddled
idea of how and when orders
ought to be executed no longer
counted in his favor. At day’s
end they watched his back as he
strode loose-limbed up to the big
house. They swore to one
another about his going up there
where he had no real right to go.
Then, two months after the
funeral, Sam Quirk let it be
known he was pulling out. He’d
been thinking about it a long
time, he said, and he’d made up
his mind at last. I reckoned I
knew what was eating him up
inside, and when he left there
- was no one but me and Ellie and
Babe who knew what had hap-
pened that night in the store.
And perhaps Mrs. Bermingham.
I’ve always had a sort of sus-
picion she put them up to it.
But I’ve nothing to go on,
really.
Anyway, she didn’t last long
after Sam went. I had occasion
to go up to her house sometimes
to discuss orders with Babe and
when he got muddled with figures
and things he’d call her or Elbe
in to help him. Mostly it was
the old lady he fell back on,
because since Sam’s departure
Ellie had taken over the store.
I often caught a look of
disgust on. Mrs. Bermingham’s
face. I really believe she got so
that she couldn’t stand living
under the same roof as him.
Old J.B. may have had his
faults, but he had his finger on
every bit of business that was
going on. This big, amiable fool
of a son-in-law would have them
bankrupt in a year or two, and
she decided to get out while the
going was good.
Soon after she left, things
really began to happen at
Bermingham’s mill. First,
Cleaver and Brookes, the best
pair of fallers in those parts,
went over to work for Western
Lumber, who had a concession
the other side of Kingarup.
There were frequent breakdowns
in the power-plant.
One day, a log riding steadily
along the bench was halved
cleanly. . One half was laid
aside, the other returned to the
saw. Suddenly, with a scream
that could be heard a mile away,
the teeth struck steel. The saw-
stopped, its teeth-edge ruined
beyond repair, its belt drooping,
a limp ribbon, from the ceiling.
Someone had driven a twelve-
inch spike into the log, burying
its head in the sapwood so that
it wouldn’t be seen.
. J.B. would have known how
to deal with such a thing. But
Babe, after casting round for
someone to blame, went into
Kingarup and was drunk for a
week. Bentley installed another
saw and looked to Ellie for
instructions. • This didn’t please
him. It didn’t please the men,
either. When Babe came back,
sober and going out of his way
to make it appear as if nothing
had happened, they scowled at
him, their workmate once, but
now, so it seemed to everyone,
holding a false position of power
and authority.
You can imagine what the
atmosphere was like down there.
Those trees pushed our resent-
ment back upon us. We thought
of the four boys who, although
they bore other names, had the
blood of J.B. in their veins.
Call it irrational, if you like, but
that thought was always with hs,
and the sight of Babe blundering
about where he had no right
didn’t help us to forget it, either.
ICINALLY, Bentley could stand
1 it no longer. He drew his
wages and left, with his wife and
family and’ a truckload of
furniture.
Those of us who remained felt
it wouldn’t be long before our
turn came. Our hearts were no
longer in the place. Each pass-
ing day our resentment towards
Babe grew stronger. We’d loved
him once. He’d been a good
mate, easy-going, even-tempered.
It wasn’t that he put on airs. He
was still simple and natural in
his manner. But his smile, when
it spread across his gaunt, bony
face, was a mask for his own
stupidity. Once we warmed to
that smile. Now we hated it.
He used it as a cover-up for his
own inefficiency. Work at the
mill lacked direction. Orders
given today were countermanded
tomorrow. Everything was
muddle and confusion.
One night Mrs. Coleman
awoke and cried,
; “Bert, what’s that noise?”
Her husband, foreman now in
Bentley’s place, needed only one
glance at the red glow through
the window. It seemed half a
dozen of us woke at the same
time. Within five minutes, every-
one was down at the mill, resent-
ment forgotten in an attempt to
save what seemed to be the only
living we could hope for.
Babe and Ellie came running
down from the big house. At
first we wished he hadn’t come,
wished he’d stayed at home and
let us fight the fire pur own way.
This thing we were trying to
save was ours, not his. But Babe
was immediately master of the
situation. He organised every-
thing for instantaneous action,
each man in his place, and in a
matter of minutes he set-up the
emergency fire-fighting plant fed
from the dam old J.B, had built.
Not one of us could have done
what he did in such a short time.
Something of our old admira-
tion for him came back at that
moment. This was like those big
logs he used to handle so capably
on the saw-bench. It was worthy
of his size and his strength. As
soon as the water was flowing
he dragged the hose into the very
heart of the blazing mill. One
minute we saw him, his huge
figure magnificently silhouetted
against the flames. The next,
the roof fell, pinning him on
where he had worked
all those years. There was not
one of us could get within reach
to drag him out.
Ellie screamed and covered her
face in her hands. She let Mrs.
Coleman lead her sobbing up to
the big house. There was nothing
we could do. The fire swept the
mill'clean, and we had our work
cut out save the houses.
Today if you go down that
way you can still see the black
mass' where Bermingham’s mill
once stood. Arum-lilies and
violets grow wild alongside the
road, sports from old J.B.’s
garden. Western Lumber bought
everything worth buying, dis-
mantled it and carted it away to
a new mill they were starting
further south. They left the
church for the use of farmers
thereabouts. But it hasn’t been
used for years, and now its
timbers are gaping, its windows
broken, its neat wooden cross
hanging awry from the gable.
I think of it as a memorial—
to old J. 8., perhaps, who knew
what he wanted from life and
very nearly got it, or to poor old
Babe, who ran up against some-
thing in the human situation that
was too big for him to handle.
WINDANG ISLAND
Woman with the sea-worn eyes,
the watch you kecip
from the bleak home
is lonelier than the only hawk,
the lost dark smoke
above the silver haze.
The watchful deep,
the snatching foam
no hungrier than your gaze,
weary woman, staying sleep
until it come.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


a Town and Country Automatic laundry
Mobilco PROVIDES THE FEATURES EVERY WOMAN WANTS,
PIUS front parlor FINISH in eight modern colours.
‘ amh vrm — ,
* **.apst
Mi
w
m
■
m
II
Here’s the answer to wash-day drudgery. From start to finish the
hard jobs are done for you . . . and done far better than you ever
dreamt possible. See what your Mobilco does ...
• BOILS .. . SPIN DRIES .. . BLUES .. . RINSES • TAKES FULL
TEN POUNDS WASH • SELF EMPTYING • SAME HOT WATER
CAN BE USED SEVERAL TIMES DURING WASH • SIMPLE INSTAL-
LATION ... NO SPECIAL WIRING • SAFETY CLUTCH PREVENTS
DAMAGE FROM OVERLOADING.
Please send to me today all particulars
of the Mobilco Automatic Laundry.
Name
Address
Available in either 240 volt or 32
volt modeh. Mobilco is so "right"
for your modern kitchen or laundry.
We'd like you to know more about
the Mobilco, so send the coupon
today for ALL the details.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LIMITED
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - - - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE. PERTH - AGENTS: ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
GOOD MAN with
HORSES
By A. H. WILKIE
mm TT HE cane - loader lived
/ across the road from the
derrick in an old brown
Army tent. His name was
Richardson, but he was never
known as anything but
Ritchie; and he was a lean,
easy-natured man, rough of
speech and of humor but never
unpleasant. Even when he swore
he contrived to do it in an
unoffensive manner.
Altogether, a likeable sort of
a chap and a very good man with
horses. For years he had the
same horses on the job each
crushing: two big, grey, draught
mares for pulling the rail-
wagons up and down the loop,
and a long-legged brown horse
called Trooper for the wind-
ing gear on the lift. Trooper
had a Roman nose and as wicked
an eye as could be found in a
horse, but Ritchie could make
him do anything but talk.
No one else was ever allowed
to drive his horses. Ritchie was
very firm about that, and his
firmness was the type that com-
manded respect. Anyway, it’s
doubtful if the horses would have
taken any notice of anyone else
but Ritchie.
XJENCE, it caused some mild
surprise when he arrived on
the job this crushing with a new
horse added to his team. I
happened to be passing when he
was pitching his tent; so I pulled
up for a yarn and saw the horses
standing in the shade of a clump
of messmates, the new one
tethered apart from the others.
I shook hands with Ritchie
and asked: “How’re things
going? Everything lined up for
the crushing?”
“Yairs,” he assured me
“Yairs, everything’s jake” ; and
added with a touch of pride, “I
gotter new ’orse. A good-’un.
Come and ’ave a look at ’im.”
My interest in horses is not
very great, but I could tell by
his manner that he wanted to
spread himself on the subject, so
I inspected the horse with a show
of interest and tactfully asked
all the right kind of leading
questions.
To me he seemed a nervous,
unstable sort of a brute, but if
Ritchie liked him it was O.K.
with me. He’d forgotten more
about horses than I ever knew.
“I wouldn’t go too close to
’im,” he warned me, apologeti-
cally, “He just might let out at
yer. ’E’s a bit touchy at times.”
Coming from Ritchie, such a
statement was tantamount to
saying that the horse would prob-
ably kick my head off at the
first chance, so I was discreet in
the matter of distance.
“Got ’im from a bloke over
the range,” informed Ritchie.
“Cheap, too. Fifteen quid with
the ’arness chucked in. Pretty
fair bargain, don’tcha reckon?”
Personally, I thought it was
about fifteen pounds too much,
but I looked properly impressed
and asked: “What are you going
to use him for —truck-pulling?”
Ritchie looked slightly
shocked. “Aw, cripes, no. I
wouldn’t use ’im on the trucks.
Not a good ’orse like that. No,
I’m going to put ’im in the
winding-gear. Old Trooper’s
gettin’ a bit past ’is work now,
though ’e’s still a good
’orse, mind yer. This
new bloke oughter be
all right in that job
once he shakes down.
Might be a bitter bother
at first, but ’e’ll come good,”
vyXTH all the usual niggling
little annoyances ' and
delays that attend such occasions
and which we never seem able to
avoid, the crushing opened.
When I got to the lift with my
first load on Monday morning I
found three other loaded lorries
ahead of me and Ritchie
crouched under the pole of the
winding gear doing something
to the brake on the drum, while
the other men stood around
giving advice.
I greeted them all and asked:
“What’s the hold-up? Something
broken?”
“It’s this ’ere flamin’ brake,”
Ritchie explained. “All grip or
slip. Won’t let the bundles
out smooth at all. Dangerous,
the way it is. Didn’t nobody do
nothin’ to it durin’ the slack?”
I that the maintenance
gang from the mill had been out
a few weeks before, but I didn’t
know what they had done.
“That mob,” snorted Ritchie.
“They wouldn’t know what to
do, even if yer told ’em.” He
crawled out and wiped his hands
on an oily rag,
“There, that might improve it
a bit, but we’ll ’ave ter be careful.
She ain’t right yet, not by any
means.” '
He surveyed the winding-gear
morosely. “An’ that there track,”
he complained critically. “Look
at the state it’s in.”
He pointed to the circular
track worn by the horse over
years of successive crushings.
Its radius was the length of the
horizontal pole that operated the
drum, and it was worn well
below the surface of the sur-
rounding earth.
“Should’er had a few loads of
gravel put in there,” complained
Ritchie. “It’s all right in dry
weather, but with a bitter rain
a ’orse won’t ’ardly stand up on
it. Flamin’ crook, that’s wot
it is.”
We agreed that there was room
for improvement and turned
back to the work of loading.
Ritchie, I noticed, had put old
Trooper in the pole. Apparently
he wasn’t going to try out the
new horse until everything was
going smoothly.
The first lorry drove under the
lift. We hooked the top- sling
and dropped the clutch.
“Giddup, Trooper,” ordered
Ritchie ; and the old brown horse
moved to take up the slack,
took the strain of the load
smoothly and trotted! briskly
around the track. Steel rope
whirred through the blocks;
slings tightened as the big boom
of the derrick swung into line
and two tons of sugar-cane rolled
up neatly and swung suspended.
Ritchie screwed the brake hard
down and lifted the clutch. “One
of youse take ’er in the truck,”
he ordered, and I scrambled
briskly into the rail-wagon to
guide the bundle as it swung
round on the boom.
I urged it into position and
steadied it against the swing.
“Out a bit,” said Ritchie.
“Hold ’er there, now. I’ll let ’er
down steady. Just watch yerself.
I dunno ’ow this brake’ll be.”
Gently, with the skill of years
of practice, he eased the brake
off; the free drum slowly
revolved and the bundle settled
into the wagon.
“Hpld it,” I shouted. “Leave
it at that. It’s pretty good where
it is.”
“0.K.,” responded Ritchie.
“That brake ain’t too bad just
now, is it?”
There was a rattle of talk as
the others climbed into the
wagon to “wall” the bundle ; and
the first loading of the new
harvest was under way,
TT was two days later when
Ritchie started to use the new
horse. I can’t say his first per-
formance on the job was very
impressive, and by the end of the
day criticism had reached a point
where it was more caustic than
kind.
Ritchie countered it all calmly
by saying: “Give ’im a chance,
now. Give ’im a fair go. ’E’s
only a baby yet, and ’e’s gotter
learn. ’E’il be a good ’orse when
’e settles down.”
Most of us casually accepted
his judgment without being con-
cerned whether it was right or
wrong. Admittedly, it slowed
down the loading, having a frac-
tious horse in the winding-pole ;
but there was always old Trooper
to fall back on if the position
got too bad.
One or two chaps—particu-
larly Norman Hedrik —were
inclined to harp on the matter
undufy, but they didn’t get much
of a hearing. Hedrik was one
of those stocky-built, florid men,
with a knack of speaking out of
turn, especially if there was
trouble around. No one took
much notice of him, but that
didn’t stop him from talking.
“You’ll never make a horse
out of that thing,” he told
Ritchie bluntly. “He’s a rogue.
Got a wicked eye, if ever a horse
had. Been badly handled, too.
You’d save everyone a lot of
time if you took him out and
shot him, Ritchie. I know
horses, I do,”
“Aw, give ’im a break,”
countered Ritchie complacently.
“ ’E acts a bit silly just now, but
wait till ’e settles down. You
gotter give ’im a fair go,
Norman.”
Well, the horse got all the fair
go he needed, but I can’t say he
showed his appreciation of it.
He improved, admittedly, but he
did it with reluctance and a lot
of back-sliding, and hardly a
day passed but he took it into
his head to try to kick the pole
to bits, and usually ended up with
His back legs straddled over it
and the situation very touchy.
Ritchie would complacently
calm him down with pats and
soothing words, untangle him
from the pole, adjust the harness
patiently and remark with
hopeful humor: “There now,
yer cow; see if that’ll stop yer
from laughin’ in church.”
If Hedrik was present the
situation would gain from his
critical and caustic remarks, and
it wasn’t long before I began to
feel that there was trouble in the
offing, and the week closed with
a general feeling of hostility in
the air.
TOURING the weekend it
rained. We needed it for the
young plant cane, but we all
hoped there would not be enough
to make things difficult for the
harvesting. It persisted inter-
mittently throughout Sunday,
(Continued on page 34)
TIME LIMIT
May come a time when we
And our son, or his son,
Forgive an enemy
After a war* is done:
But it is long beforfc
Our quick impatience dies
With the unfamiliar
In friends and in allies;
And it is long before
We come to tolerate
The man who lives next door,
Whose ways irritate.
’Tis hard to bear with these.
Harder to learn to live
Quiet in families . . .
But strangers we forgive.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


fds
mmwa
cloths?
\
I*. I .
f*V.*:. If
;fi I-
wmm
/
9 9
Stamina .
suits me I
“I’m pretty fussy when it comes to buying trousers.
Call me ‘difficult’, if you like. I want the best
and only the best the best cloth, the best cut,
trimming and fit . . . definitely the best fit. And at
the best price.
“I’m not easy to fit an awkward size, you might
say. But Stamina has my fitting—my exact fitting.
“And cloth? You can’t do better than
the fadeless, unshrinkable, all-wool
Crusader cloth that is used in all
Stamina clothing.
“Stamina wins on all other counts,
too. When you buy Stamina you
get the best for the least . . .”
ASK FOR
Stamina
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
T 6.113
Missing Beneficiary
WILL any person knowing the where-
abouts of ERNEST HAROLD WATKIN-
SON (formerly of Kyneton, Victoria), or
of any child of his, please communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, of 412
Collins Street, Melbourne, the admini-
strator with the WRI annexed of the,
estate of LOUISA HILL, deceased. Un-
less the said ERNEST HAROLD WATKIN-
SON or his child or children (if any),
or any person claiming through him or
them, claim the share or shares of the
said estate to which he or they would
be entitled under the said Will, on or
before the 30th day of September, 1954,
the said estate will be distributed as if
ERNEST HAROLD WATKINSON had pre-
deceased the said LOUISA HILL without
issue. /
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
JfAe ALL-BRITISH
ALL'BKITIan
§tei«)art
From
25/-
Wc
65/
m
JtW' GIVES
CHARACTER
, TO YOUR
~ WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & CQ.LT&. LONDON
GUARD
ds
PROTECTA
Suitable for every type of buslnes* it record*
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent) —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon Si Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Li Hung Chang’s
Scrap Book by Sir H. S. Maxim, pub-
lished in 1913 by Watts and Co.,
London.—sB7B.
English family, husband, wife and
three children, arriving shortly in Aus-
tralia, seek furnished flat or cottage,
Sydney.—sB79.
Books by “Rolf Boldrewood,” also
copies of articles or any printed refer-
ences to the author.—5880.
To buy copy of Jubilee Number
(January 29, 1930) of The Bulletin,
or will exchange copy of 70th Anni-
versary Number (February 1, 1950) of
The Bulletin for same.—5881.
To buy, urgently, copy of Bushman
and Buccaneer: Harry Morant: His
Ventures and Verses, edited by Frank
Fox (“Frank Renar”). (Reply direct
to J. Gorton, Box 46, Mukono,
Uganda, British East Africa.)
Information Sought
How is nylon made ?
The American firm Du Pont de
Nemours produced, in 1940, a com-
pound to which the trade-name
“nylon” was given. Nylon is obtained
by allowing the compound hexamethy-
lene diamine to react with adipic acid,
forming “66” polymer; the raw
materials which are needed to produce
these substances include phenol from
coal, oxygen and nitrogen frorh the
air, and hydrogen from water; hence
the popular though oversimplified
statement that nylon is made from
coal, air and water. Nylon yarn is
manufactured by an extrusion process.
The polymer chips are poured into a
hopper and melted ; the molten
polymer is forced through a metal
disk containing fine holes, cool streams
of air are played on it and the resultant
solidified filaments are wound On a
cylinder. By drawing oqt these
extruded filaments to about four times
their original length, the long chain-
molecules are oriented, and tensile
strength is greatly increased. Trans-
parency and a high degree of lustre
are also thus developed. It is this
drawing-out operation, therefore, that
gives nylon the properties of a textile
fibre; the yarn is now retidy for
further processing, which varies
according to the particular purpose
for which it is required. (Nylon is
used for some 200 different textile
purposes, both domestic and indus-
trial.)
* * * *
Some information on former Aus-
tralian wicketkeeper Alfred Johns ?
Did he play in any Tests ?
Born in Melbourne on Jan. 22, 1868,
Johns played his early cricket with
Melbourne and Richmond clubs, and
when Blackham, Australia’s first great
’keeper, retired, took his place in the
Victorian side. He twice \yent to
England, in 1896 and 1899, both times
as understudy to J. J. Kelly, Aus-
tralia’s second famous ’keeper. He
didn’t play a great deal on either tour,
10 matches in 1896 and eight in 1899
(as against around 30 games by most
of the others). He played in 13 Shef-
field Shield , matches,; a left-hander,
he was only moderately successful in
Shield games as a batsman —57 highest
score, 173 runs in all, av. 9.10. He
was never picked for a Test. In
private life Johns was a solicitor, but
in 1899 entered on a business career,
which he followed till his death in
Melbourne in February, 1934. In
1922 he was appointed a trustee of
Melbourne Cricket Ground.
* * * *
List of aboriginal names suitable for
a sheep property?
Akeringa, on the plains; Alawoona,
place of hot winds; Anunaka, ours;
Birkalla, Wamara, plain; Bundarra,
head of a plain; Corobimilla, tree
struck by lightning; Dandarbong, very
prttty; Elouera, pleasant place;
Etuna, summer; Eumangla, water-
hole ; Gumbooya, meeting-place;
Gurana, good ;* Ilunga, country or
district; Ilya, open space; Impara,
sun rising red; Ipari, north;. Iturala,
brightness of the sun; Jerra Jerra,
plover; Kalanka, Kalkaura, evening;
Kalawar, flat country; Kallibucca,
bent tallow-tree; Kanandah, land
where the sun sets; Karingal, happy
camp; Kunar, flat country; Kiah,
beautiful place; Marapana, graze (as
animals); Palparu, large plain;
Tingha, flat or level; Turuga, falling
star; Tycannah, bring it; Wahroonga,
our camp; Waratta, plains; Wariwar-
ina, linger; Weemala, distant view;
Wirruna, setting of sun or moon;
Wirong, north wind; Woomba, even-
ing star; Yarramalong, place of wild
horses; Yulgilbar, big log.
Brief Answers
P.L.: Write W. H. Paling and Co.,
Ltd., 338 George-street, Sydney
A.A.: Queen bees may be purchased
from the principal, Hawkesbury Agri-
cultural College, Richmond (N.S.W.),
or from members of the Australasian
Queen Breeders Society. T. C. W.
Smart, Camden (N.S.W.), is secretary
of this society, and a list of its mem-
bers is published each month in “The
Australasian Beekeeper,” which is pub-
lished by Pender Bros. Pty., Ltd., P.O.
Box 20, Maitland (N.S.W.), and is the
only bee journal published in N.S.W.
Subscription is 15s. per annum. Pender
Bros, are the largest suppliers of bee
goods in the Commonwealth and will
forward their illustrated catalogue free
on request. They will also send a
free sample copy of the “Australasian
Beekeeper” if requested... .H.C.;
You win the wager. Bradman scored a
century in every Test in which he
batted in the 1938 English tour
A.E.W.: A printed will-form would
be legal and quite safe if confined to
the simple disposition you propose
and the instructions accompanying the
form strictly followed. To go fur-
ther you should have the will drafted
by a solicitor H.S.: By midnight
on April 25, 1915, 16,000 Australian
and New Zealand troops had landed
on Gallipoli... .W.S.: The books
listed are not of any particular value,
and it would not be worth while send-
ing them to Sydney for sale H.N.:
Write Dept, of Agriculture, Brisbane,
for pamphlet on pawpaw-growing
T.R.D.: “Banjo” Paterson’s remini-
scences were printed in the “S. M.
Herald,” beginning on February 4,
1939..; .A.N.: Surname can be
changed by deed-poll, which involves
registration with the N.S.W. Registrar-
General’s Department and advertising
in the Press. Registration, advertising
and solicitor’s charges would not
involve more than a couple of guineas.
M.K.: The Loch Leven (1200
tons), iron clipper-ship, on voyage
from Geelong to London, was lost on
King Island on October 24, 1871,
through the master neglecting precau-
tions in thick weather. The captain
went back to her to get papers, but
the boat capsized in the surf and he
was drowned. No other lives were
lost.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
G.A.: Onslaught against the
Demon Rum might find a corner in
a temperance journal N. 8.: Sorry,
but we can’t turn our pages into a
hospice for your dying stockman....
F.U.: Send us your one-hundred-and-
first effort... .H.T.: You have a
freakish, individual style, but very
little idea of the requirements of this
paper.., .W. 8.: Is that all you can
do with a flood? T.0’8.: Some-
thing there, but it needs much better
handling.,. .R.D.; Prepared to bet
you have never seen the “back o’
beyond” K. 8.: About as amusing
as a collection of fingerprints...'.
W.F.: “Thy Father’s Ghost” won’t
skulk around these premises L.N.:
It’s about time that ancient was
allowed to rest in peace E.N.:
Have sacked that detective a thousand
times.,, .G.W.F.: Tight-rope walker
had a fall into the w.p.b G.P.:
Sorry, but the rabbit-oh did no busi-
ness at 252 George-street, Sydney....
E.S.F.: Keep him in clink as long as
you can....P.T.: Dealt very severely
with “The Philanderer”..,. .G.M.:
The most remarkable thing about it
is that anyone should think we might
publish it....H.D.: If you write as
the mood takes you, for goodness’
sake get into a cheery mood
H.S.: “I curse the day I started this
story.” You are not alone C.C.:
Not bad in a slapdash fashion, but we
want them better than that F.R. :
“I have decided to become a con-
tributor to The Bulletin.” Well,
you sound full of determination.
A.V.R.: You have the dis-
tinction of having written something
so arrestingly dreadful that we were
compelled to read it right through....
R.S.J.: “Worth four columns?” Am-
bition should be made of stronger stuff.
W.B.: Searched for an hour and
still fajlcd to locate the point of that
story M.R.: The cat is finding its
way back all right L.R.: “Down
Under” sunk at the second page....
J.S.: Articles of page length on
interesting subjects are welcomed.
. ...C.8.C.: We left the bad-
tempered neighbor to her sticky
doom in the swamp... .E.D.: “A
Ticket in Tatt.’s” didn’t draw a prize.
N.S.: Shows a small glimmer of
promise E.J.C.: It may comfort
you to know that patriotic bards are
dying for Australia at the rate of
about three a day Y.L.: Call and
collect “The Pickled Chinaman”
A.K.S.: That one’s a long way off,
but read the type of stories we publish
and keep trying P.M.8.: Yes, yes,
and every cloud has a silver lining
G.8.M.: We’ll try to struggle on
without that fearsome charlady, thank
you E.L.: Same rider was tossed
from same nag many months ago
W.H.J.: Don’t‘want translations of
stories from foreign newspapers....
C. 8.: Crockery-throwing wife now
cooling-off in the w.p.b M.S.T.:
Your jesting grave-diggers are a
little too grisly for us K.D.;
Grandmother who stayed out late
was let off with a caution W.W.C.;
It’s old stuff. And please get the type-
writer a new ribbon G.L.: Num-
bered among the legion of snake-
yarns that missed the mark
C.W.H.: A melancholy production,
indeed W.S.: “The Bush Ball” fell
flat, so did “The Bush Picnic”
M.L.; Characters never seem to come
to life.


Shackleton at His Greatest
Antarctic Epic
By V.J.H.
WHEN members of the
Australian National
Antarctic Research
Expedition landed on
the Antarctic Continent early
this year and established a base
at Mawson they owed their
success to the Danish icebreaker
Kista Dan. Only the immense
power of her diesel engines and
the strength of her double-steel
hull saved her from being
crushed in the growling, grinding
icefloes.
Almost 40 years ago another
Antarctic expedition, led by Sir
Ernest Shackleton, headed south
to tackle the most ambitious plan
ever made in the long history of
Antarctic exploration: from sea
to sea via the Pole; the Caird
Coast to McMurdo Sound —an
expedition calling for two parties,
one laying depots from Scott’s
old base along the Ross Ice
Shelf, up the Beardmore Glacier
and across the Plateau; the
other, under Shackleton, facing
the unknown with dog-teams
and sledges.
That the exjfedition failed was
no fault of Shackleton’s, As it
had done before, and has done
so often since, the relentless
frozen south mustered its armies
of floating ice to bar the way.
Shackleton named his ship
Endurance. On December 21,
1914, she sailed through the
Weddell Sea and approached the
pack-ice, ready to batter her way
through to the mainland.
For three weeks she pushed
and shoved through narrow lanes
between the floes, in a fantastic,
ever-changing world of ice.
Great mounds of ice suddenly
rose beside her and as suddenly
sank again, groaning and shriek-
ing under the pressure. A giant
iceberg forced its way to the
open sea, smashing the floes aside
into great heaps of splintered ice.
Slowly Endurance made head-
way. She charged into great
flat sheets of ice, backed off and
charged again and again until the
floes began moving and bumping
together and split, to form a lane-
way that the ship could navigate ;
and when she stuck, the
explorers blew her free with
dynamite and began bashing at
the ice again.
The masthead lookout reported
land. They were close to
journey’s end. Shackleton looked
to his sledges and dog-teams as
Endurance progressed cautiously
along the edge of an immense
barrier-wall of ice, 70ft. hign
Beyond lay the mainland and
the Pole.
But time was running out.
The season was closing in for
the winter. The pack-ice was
thickening. Endurance began
bumping against great mounds
of ice that refused to be pushed
aside. She turned a\£ay to find
thinner ice, but the channels
froze over almost as soon as they
were cut. And suddenly she was
stuck fast, with no way forward
or back. Every effort to move
her failed, and finally Shackleton
saw that nothing could be done.
His ambitions for another
Antarctic triumph froze with his
ship.
There followed nine months of
imprisonment, of helpless drift-
ing through the gloom of the
, Antarctic winter. Blizzards raged
for days on end, clothing the rig-
ging in solid ice; the tempera-
ture dropped so low that ice
formed on the bulkheads even
in the galley ; ice pinnacles rose
so high beside Endurance that
they threatened to topple on to
her decks ; but, despite the hard-
ships of cramped quarters and
rigorous conditions, Shackleton
kept his men happy.
Endurance groaned and shud-
dered, hard pressed by the mighty
force around her. Shackleton
watched her constantly, know-
ing that sooner or later they
would have to take to the ice.
He off-loaded stores and pre-
pared the ship’s three boats, in
readiness.
The months dragged through
to October, 1915, and the change
of season. This was the danger
period, when winter relaxed its
grip on the pack-ice and allowed
the floes to break up in writhing,
shrieking torment. The end was
near.
Shackleton ordered his men
on to the ice. Endurance had
drifted back and forth across
the Weddell Sea, 1500 miles in
all, every minute of it under
tremendous pressure. She was
finished, her spirit exhausted by
the months of brave resistance.
Her decks buckled and split,
her beams arched, her masts
crashed as her hull collapsed, and
the broken ship seemed to relax.
She had struggled hard, but the
ice had won.
Almost relieved that the wait-
ing was over, Shackleton moved
his men and the boats to a level
floe a mile away. The little
huddle of black tents was called
Ocean Camp, and the wandering
began again.
Ocean Camp was pitched in
many different places during the
next six months. As the huge
ice-rafts cracked and broke up,
the tents and boats were moved
to larger, safer, floes. Constant
watch was kept on each
temporary home; once in the
middle of the night a floe split
with a noise like heavy gunfire
right down the middle of the
camp. Shackleton records, rather
casually, that nobody felt like
going back to bed that night.
At last they could no longer
rely on the ice, and faced the
frozen, heaving ocean, beating
along Graham Land’s frowning
coastline. Cramped, hungry,
stiff and sore with cold, the
explorers approached Elephant
Island, a grim rock, rising almost
sheer from the sea, shrouded
always in heavy mist.
The three boats hung off the
island for about four hours,
looking for a break in the icy,
thundering surf. There was none.
Shackleton pointed his boat
ashore and charged through a
foaming gap in the reefs, to be
swept violently on to a rocky,
shelving beach. The others
followed, and the men tumbled
out, staggering, shouting and
laughing hysterically and rolling
in the pebbles with the joy of
being on solid earth again, after
more than a year on floating ice.
But their position was still
hopeless. No ships came so far
south, not eVen the whale-
catchers based on South Georgia.
Their only chance of survival
was to sail one of the boats to
bring back a ship.
Fort Stanley, in the Falkland
Islands, was closest, against the
wind across storm-bound Drake
Passage. They would never do
it in their frail boats. South
Georgia was their only hope--
800 miles away across the worst
stretch of water in the world, but
with the wind to help.
Shackleton made his decision
—South, Georgia. The indomit-
able Frank Wild would be in
command at Elephant Island.
Four of the fittest men would
go with Shackleton. They would
take the most seaworthy boat,
named James Caird.
Not one man marooned on
that desolate island doubted that
Shackleton would be back with
help. He inspired that sort of
confidence.
That voyage must rank as one
of the outstanding small-ship
achievements of all time. For
eighteen days James Caird
battled with a continuous roaring
hurricane under a low dome of
black cloud hurrying from the
south. Colossal seas, giants in
an area where mountains of
water are commonplace,
swamped the tiny boat and
forced her crew to bail desper-
ately for days on end. No food
was cooked —the oil-cooker was
useless. Shackleton suffered
agony from sciatica, but refused
to give way. Eighteen days of
whistling, stinging fury, of
hunger, cold, incredible dis-
comfort, cramp and lack of sleep
before their crazy, almost-
unmanageable boat was forced
ashore on South Georgia.
Even then, their troubles were
far from over. They were on the
wrong side of the island, with a
vast, unexplored mountain
hinterland between them and the
whaling-station. All five were
exhausted, two in serious
condition.
Fretting at the delay,
Shackleton rested for three days,
building up his strength with a
strong diet of seal-meat and
young sea-birds. Driven on by
the thought of his men waiting
for relief at Elephant Island, he
took the two strongest men and
headed for the whaling-station.
It seemed a hopeless, impos-
sible task, with only a worn
carpenter’s adze for an ice-axe,
50ft. of ship’s rope, and a cooker
with enough oil for two hot
meals.
Thirty-six hours later, after
battling across the unknown
mountains in darkness and heavy
cloud, these magnificent men
walked calmly into the whaling-
station.
Two small boys ran screaming
in terror when they saw the
filthy, scarecrow figures coming
—and the explorers still had
spirit enough to laugh.
The great adventure was over.
A whale-catcher raced to rescue
the men stranded on the other
si<Jp of the island. Another set
out for Elephant Island, but the
relentless pack had gathered
around the dismal rock, and it
turned back.
Shackleton found a Chilean
ship willing to make another
attempt. She steamed through a
break in the ice and embarked
all hands. The ice closed behind
her as she left the island.
In this writer’s opinion Sir
Ernest Shackleton was the
greatest of Antarctic explorers,
including even Captain Scott.
By conquering the formidable
Beardmore Glacier he opened the
door for -Scott and Amundsen.
He never lost a man under his
direct command. He calculated
the smallest risk and made his
plans accordingly, then went
ahead with a strength and
courage that endeared him to
every man who followed him to
the Great White South.
When he died off South
Georgia in 1921, -leading yet
another Antarctic expedition, the
Golden Era of Antarctic ventur-
ing died with him.
Perhaps the new age—of air-
craft finding the easiest route
through the pack-ice and picking
out camp-sites well in advance.
and of vessels with comfortable
caravans covering more miles in
an hour than Shackleton, Scott,
Amundsen and Mawson could
cover in a day with perfect con-
ditions —is more efficient.
But what of the men? Will
Antarctic exploration ever see
another man of Shackleton s
calibre?
I rather doubt it.
VARIOUS VERSE
REDGUMS AT NIGHTFALL
What was it there, among the gums
Whose trunks of vivid and dry fire
Sizzled in a cloud of high green leaves
As into the swift blue channels of air,
Like anvil-fevered pillars of iron
End-dipped in rapids shadow-cool.
The searing summits of tfyeir brands
Burst in a deliverance, beautiful—
What was it there that by a stroke
No deeper than a peel of bark
Drove to the fire’s sap and core
And drained all color into the dark.
Transfused the furnace-rage to a star
And laid it burning on the hill
Meteor-bright but small as a spark.
And turned the seething forest still?
It seemed as if the sinewed earth,
Straining under, with roo.ted hands
In the last effort that breaks life’s heart
Thrust the raw richness of those brands
Suddenly too far, immersing light
' In total sky, when the vivid red
And green and blue became one gloom
Underneath and overhead.
What then has that entirety’s strength
Compounded of keen fragility
And sense of vulnerable place or time
That with a tap it can plunge a tree
And every tree in a world of night,
But save the passion for a star?
What was it there—the quick unseen
Assassin among the gums of fire?
Living and burning like the redgums,
There were men who would have known,
Who holding their minds towards rapids found
Deliverance, beauty, fury their crown
And in the last darkening shock
With breaking hearts looked down, but then
Were silenced as they saw and laid
By the mystery among the stars of men.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
THE WATTLE-TREE
The tree knows four truths:
earth, water, air and the fire of the sun.
The tree holds four truths in one.
Root, limb and leaf unfold
out of their seed and these rejoice
till the tree dreams it has a voice
to join four truths in one great word of gold.
Oh that I knew that word!
I should cry loud, louder than any bird;
O let me live forever, 1 would cry.
For that word makes immortal what would wordless die,
and perfectly, and passionately,
welds love and time into the seed;
till tree renews itself and is forever tree.
Then upward from the earth
and from the water,
then inward from the. air
and the cascading light
poured gold, till the tree trembled with its flood.
Now from the world’s four elements I make
my immortality; it shapes within the bud.
Yes, now I bud, and now at last I break
into the word I had no voice to speak—
into a million images of the Sun my God.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
BIRD SANCTUARY
I came down to the tideless bay
from hills sketched in rain
to light that flickers the pencil reed
to where these swans remain
and sail with slim and supple necks
over the water’s rippled weed,
with necks and shadows seeking
in the cautious lengthened shade:
not knowing I would find
these water birds moving
in an area of meaning,
wings folded from flight—
or that swans on water glance
and *settle into meaning
as thoughts and poems
on the edge of silence.
O there, now here these seven swans,
this water-world’s remembered skies
hold silence, weed and living shade
within my centre of surprise.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


now
available
at all
hotels
»
*
!f*o^
£
0
ps
0
H
©
*
♦•of!;
isco
The Stout
that keeps
you fit!
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established ,7878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ATTiFTtf fi LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman)*
HTRUAN ROeffioN NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
a! 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director* JL E. MANION, Manager.
- A o-onniAd In nil Cminfpv CpnlfftS
SPORTING NOTIONS
This season’s spring racing in
Sydney and Melbourne should
be of a high order, judging by
performances at the initial fix-
tures at Warwick Farm and
Flemington on Saturday, par-
ticularly at the former course.
Direct result of the running at
the Farm was a sharp advance in
the position of champion
Carioca in betting on both the
Epsom and Metropolitan.
Though Carioca didn’t have
much chance of catching the
more speedy Tarien in the War-
wick Stakes after being blocked
at the home-turn, he put in a
brilliant burst over the final half-
furlong, indicating he was much
more forward in condition than
believed by those outside the
stable. He seems to be back to
the form which kept him in such
prominence last season.
Late in the betting on the
Warwick Stakes there was a rush
to support Carioca, and he
started favorite. Cook had him
well placed to the home-turn,
but then was forced to hold him
up as a line of horses blocked
his progress. Tarien, winner of
the race, also won it last season.
Her party was delighted with her
return to best form.
Carioca’s brilliant run was no
better than Prince Cortauld’s
fine display in the same event.
Prince Cortauld was rearward
early in the race, and then ran
into second place. The four-
year-old was, like Carioca, hav-
ing his first run since the autumn,
and he came through with fly-
ing colors. Trainer Maurice
McCarten is bound to further
improve the handsome brown,
who rules as Epsom favorite.
Karendi’s display in the War-
wick Stakes, for which he started
second-favorite, didn’t please
those who have taken spring
doubles with him. Second into
the straight, he faded to third-
last. However, there will be
several chances for Karendi and
other spring candidates: before
the big races come round.
, The Warwick Farm crowd of
close on 30,000 (again emphasis-
ing the popularity of the A.J.C.’s
suburban track) gave Darby
Munro a big hand when he won
the Warwick Stakes on Tarien
(4 to 1). There’d been a bit of
hooting when Darby was un-
placed in the previous event,
the Hobartville Stakes, on odds-
on favorite Lindbergh. At no
stage of the three-year-old race
did Lindbergh look like winning.
Pride of Egypt took it out at
50 to 1.
Indian Empire looked burly
before running second to Pride
of Egypt in the Hobartville, and
he is bound to be improved by
the effort, while too much notice
should not be taken of Lind-
bergh’s display. Coronado sur-
prised by his good run into third-
place. Three-year-old Prince
Delville, fourth in the w.-f.-a.
Warwick Stakes, is another who
enters the circle of classic
prospects. In recent years Septet
and Foreign Exchange were
winning three-year-olds of the
Warwick Stakes, but they didn’t
prove stayers. On the other
hand, Talking, Winner of the
1936 race, won both A.J.C. and
V.R.C. Derbies.
The Hobartville Stakes hasn’t
been a good pointer to the
Derby, but owner E. R. Williams
is hopeful his Nilo (imp.) colt,
Pride of Egypt, will gain classic
honors in October. The colt is
also expected to go to Melbourne
for the Victoria Derby, but there
he and others will be up against
the best Melbourne three-year-
olds, and there are some smart
youngsters competing on Vic-
torian courses, among them Clear
Springs and King Boru.
As anticipated on this page (B.
11/8/’54), three-year-old Eight
Bells soon entered the winning-
list. He did it, in fact, at his
next outing, winning, at 10 to
1, the Novice Three-year-old at
Warwick Farm. W. Cook, who
rode a clever race to lead for
more than half the mile journey,
also piloted three other winners,
as well as filling minor places in
his other engagements. Cook
has ridden as many as five
winners in an afternoon—on the
third day of the A.J.C. autumn
meeting, in March, 1951. His
winners then were Montana,
Achilles, Ocean Bound, Sea
Wolf and Freedom. As rider of
a front-runner he has few equals.
Cook was quite a lightweight
when he won the Sydney Cup
on Crucis in 1929. Crucis carried
7,5, and it was one of Cook’s
earliest important successes. His
official riding weight now is 7.13.
On Saturday he lived up to his
name of “last-race Cookie” when
he won the Farm Glenlee Handi-
cap on Krakatoa. Three meet-
ings earlier he had won the final
race of the afternoon at Rand-
wick on Livorno.
• • « •
A minor placegetter at pro-
vincial meetings, Illinois ran a
surprisingly soupd race for a
100-to-l shot when fourth to
Eight Bells, and he could soon
win. Illinois was round about
tenth place into the straight, and
was doing Well at the finish.
Raced by former bookmaker
Jack Shaw, the colt is from a
half-sister to Advocate, a winner
of the Victoria Derby, and is
bred, on staying lines. His sire
Stockade (imp.) won races in
England and is by Big Game, a
noted sire there who was
unbeaten at two years. Legato,
dam of Illinois, won at up to 11
furlongs on Sydney tracks, and
is by Midstream (imp,).
The A.J.C. Derby winner
might have been seen at Warwick
Farm, but on this point more
will be known when the Canter-
bury Guineas (Sept. 4) and the
Rosehill Guineas (Sept. 18) are
decided. However, Eight Bells
has the staying background so
necessary for the mile-and-a-half
classic. His sire, Mid-day Sun
(imp.), won an English Derby,
while New Zealand classic
winners are included in the dam’s
bloodlines, among them .Runny-
mede (Derby). Eight Bells is a
half-brother to Gold Script (12
wins and £12,860 in stakes). My
Own, granddam of the colt, won
eight races in the Dominion,
including the Great Northern
Oaks and C.J.C. Metropolitan
Handicap. Tidal Wave, a winner
of the Rosehill Guineas, and
third in Old Rowley’s Melbourne
Cup, as well as former stayers
Yours Truly and Taressa, also
figure in the pedigree, so Eight
Bells is rich in staying-blood.
Frank Dalton, who trains the colt
at Randwick, also prepared
Yours Truly.
• * •
Stirrup Cup’s fine win in the
Campbelltown Handicap at
Warwick Farm caused no move
for him in the Epsom, as it is
generally considered he is not a
mile horse, of at any rate he
hasn’t shown ability to date at
that distance. He won with 7.11,
and has 51b. less in the Epsom.
Connaught and Barfleur ran
moderately in Stirrup Cup’s race,
and will need to show quick
form-improvement to be Epsom
hopes.
• • • •
First Century gained admirers
for the Metropolitan by his
record-breaking win in the
Warwick Farm Spring Handicap.
His time for the 10! furlongs,
was two seconds better than
the previous best, made by
Headstockman, and as First
Century carried 8.2 there was
much merit in the performance.
He drops 61b. in the Metrop., but
he will fill other engagements in
the meantime, including the
£3OOO Newcastle Cup (11
furlongs). Before winning at
the Farm, First Century had
finished third in the Q.T.C.
Moreton Handicap to Gallant
Archer and Paper Strip. In the
autumn First Century ran
“Mine, I think!”
fourth in the Sydney Cup after
leading at the home-turn, and
he could be a real Metrop. show.
• Clear Springs, racing at top
form in Melbourne, became
favorite for the Caulfield
Guineas, and is nominal first-
fancy for the Victoria Derby
following his all-the-way success
in the Liston Stakes (w.-f.-a.) at
Flemington on Saturday. He is
an A.J.C. Derby entrant, but
maybe will stay at home for the
V.R.C. classic and other
important events of the spring
round.
• • • •
Melbourne stayer Most Regal
—second in the Melbourne Cup,
third in the Caulfield Cup and
winner of the Bendigo Cup last
spring—is a close relative of
Applaude, a three-year-old filly
by White Ensign (imp.) from
Dictate; Applaude lately won a
Gosford Three-year-old Maiden
Six. She is trained at Rosebery
by Harry Fisher. Her dam is a
Talking mare from Tenisdo by
Silverado (imp.) from Tennyson
by Wallace Mortlake. Family
lines include Sir Ross, a winner
of the A.J.C. Summer Cup and
City Tattersall’s Cup.
Major importance appears to
be attached to betting moves and
the amount involved when
stewards ask questions concern-
ing the defeat of a heavily sup-
ported runneV. This has been
the practice down the years, but
whether it should have such
strong bearing upon the pro-
ceedings is open to doubt. For
example, what is the position of
a light-betting stable or an
owner who doesn’t bet at all
when a horse is subject of a
stewards’ inquiry? Stewards sel-
dom miss anything that merits an
inquiry and are sharp-eyed in
their job.
♦ ♦ ♦
With one V.F.L. round to go,
the final composition of “the
four” in an unpredictable sea-
son is still very open, though
the present foursome (Geelong,
Footscray, North and Mel-
bourne) will be hard to shift.
Essendon and Collingwood, both
knocked out of “the four” on
Saturday, could make it with a
bit of luck. Richmond, to
scrape in, will need tons of it.
At home a still-weakened
’Wood had no answer to Gee-
long’s dash (10.12 - 6.14).
Essendon, also at home, also
went under, to its old rival.
Footscray (11.12-7.17). North
was too good for South (14.11-
11.14), and Melbourne; with a
handy boost to its percentage,
overwhelmed St. Kilda (14.13-
5.10). Hawthorn gave what was
probably the quietus to Rich-
mond’s hopes (10.10-6.11), and
Carlton, without doubt the
strongest of the also-rans—
through early injuries its run
came too late —defeated Fitzroy
in a spectacular exposition of
the code (22.11-14.7).
♦ * * ♦
Sydney Rugby Union teams in
the semi-finals are St. George,
University, Eastwood and Eas-
tern Suburbs. Easts qualified by
beating Drummoyne, 25-14, in
a determined game; Eastwood
by beating Manly, 9-3, and
thereby putting Manly out of
the running. University and St.
George were in, anyway (both
having a sufficient lead), and
Saturday’s game, won by St.
George, 12-8, is no re#l indica-
tion of University’s likely form
next Saturday in the minor
semi - final against Eastern
Suburbs.
St. George will meet East-
wood in the main semi-final on
Saturday week, the winning
team to play in the grand-final,
the losing team to play in the
final against the winner of the
minor semi-final.
• • • •
In other Rugby Union games
on Saturday Randwick beat
Parramatta 22-6, and Northern
Suburbs beat Gordon 14-3.
* * * *
The Pakistan cricketers in
England, by winning the last
Test, managed to tie the four-
Test series, one-all. England
easily won the second Test, and
was rained off wins in the first
and third. Pakistan has only
had separate cricketing status
since 1948, soon after its parti-
tion from India ; it’s done very
well to build-up so quickly such
a young and enthusiastic side.
(Only West Pakistan plays
cricket.) Still, J. Bull’s fourth-
Test defeat should not be taken
as a sure indication of his
chances in Australia.
• • * •
“Mid-on”; Pakistan skipper
A. H. Kardar is one of the
dozen or so who have played for
two countries in Test cricket.
He is the only one who has
played under two different
names. In 1946 he toured Eng-
land with India under the name
of Abdul Hafeez. Returning to
England the following summer
he announced his correct sur-
name to be Kardar, and as such
played for Oxford University for
three seasons (he is a left-hand
bat and left-arm bowler).
Against the 1948 Australians he
top-scored for Oxford in both
innings (54 and 29), in the
second innings being bowled,
when batting nicely, by a
“grubber” from Morris.


Queensland Jungle Hike
Over the Range
By LES SUCH
A SMALL package recently
received from England
gave me a rare experience.
It contained old letters,
mostly disjointed fragments that
I’d written many years ago.
Among them I fopnd
one almost complete
that was 30 years old.
Tattered and torn,
brown round the
edges, written in ink
taking up three pages
filled with small
f writing on both sides,
it describes a trip we
did over the coastal
, range in North
Queensland. I’d
almost forgotten it.
“Dear Dad,” it
goes (don’t I wish he
wiye alive today!),
“you often write
about your rambles
in the country, so I’ll
tell you about a trip
we had a couple of
weeks back. We
finished work for the
week on a Friday mid-
day, so decided to
pack a bit of tucker
and start there and then so as
to get back on Sunday night.”
I can remember sucking the
pen wondering how to describe
that extraordinary country to a
man who’d never been out of
England:
“Now first of all the cane-
fields in this area are in a huge
valley running from Cairns to
the Russell Heads, about 40
miles, and are hemmed in on
both sides by mountains. Well,
the range nearest our camp keeps
the sea out, so to speak, and
it was over this range we
intended to go, and so down to
the bdach on the other side.”
The old man must have
laughed at the patient explana-
tion. At that age you think
anyone over 30 is senile!
“If you saw the mountains,
Dad, you’d get an idea of what
we were in for, but we reckoned
on getting over comparatively
easily by following a spur over a
low part of the ridge.”
Don’t I remember that spur!
We’d looked at it so often at
smoke-oh in the paddock, the
sun burning the hats off our
heads while three miles away was
the cool green of the jungle on
the mountain range and on the
other side —the cool sea:
“But when we got about half-
way up we took a wrong branch
of the gully we were'following,
owing to the dense scrub, and
this took us over the highest part
of the range after all.
“There were three of us, and
we had two cane-knives and a
gun and the grub to carry, and
we camped half-way up the
mountain the first night amongst
the best scenery I’ve ever seen.”
Three of us there were. The
other two were both Bills —Bill
M. and Bill K. One is dead and
the other I’ve lost contact with
for many years. Bill M. was a
Victorian, 6ft. of bone and
brawn. He was the explorer
type and the leader in this case ;
Bill K. was shorter, but as
heavy, and was the “gun” cutter
of the district. Both had arms
as big as their legs:
“The bed of the mountain
stream was about four-chain
wide, one mass of tumbled
boulders from the size of a
cricket-ball to the size of a castle.
One big waterfall from the top
to the bottom of the mountain
sliding and splashing and form-
ing pools, some of them 40ft.
deep, like crystal, and cold as
ice—>3,ll hemmed in by the
jungle.
“Beside a pool on a face of
rock we made a soft bed of tree-
fern branches —you know those
things like this”: a drawing here
of a tree-fern branch.
I remember that night well.
The bed wasn’t so soft. We
seemed to be in another world
after the canefields. The noises
of the jungle, the splashing of the
creek, the crackling of the fire.
And the bitter taste of black tea
that washed down the pork
sandwiches.
Then the stiffness when we
awakened to continue up the
creek. Our clothes consisted of
old felt hat, Jacky Howe singlet,
working-pants and sandshoes. A
sugar-bag slung haversack-
fashion on the back containing
a sweater, one day’s food and
fishing-gear.
The other two had cane-knives
stuck in their belts, and I carried
the pea-rifle. One of us carried
the billy:
“Well, we gained the summit
about midday on the Saturday,
had a dry lunch and, started down
the other side after having
climbed a big tree and viewed
one of the best sights of the sea
and coast possible.”
And it was, too! On one side
the big valley full of cane ; green,
with patches of biscuit-colored
trash where the cane had been
harvested (it was fairly early in
the season) ; and the river wind-
ing through like a blue snake.
And on the other side the sea
and the islands of the Reef.
I remember we tossed to see
whether to continue or go back.
We had no more food, and there
was no more water. ' We subse-
quently quenched our thirst from
lawyer-vine by cutting a 6ft.
length and holding it aloft, then
sucking from the bottom.
‘'Well, this is where the trouble
started. It was perpendicular in
parts, and the whole lot was
covered with dense scrub which
is the North Queensland jungle.
Big trees and a mass of under-
growth, and creepers and lianas
and aerial roots and lawyer-vine
and wait-a-while thorn and palms
and tree-ferns and staghorns and
pencil-orchids —the other two
blokes ahead cutting a track with
the cane-knives and I following
with the gun, and, of course, it
wouldn’t be me if I didn’t jump
on a loose rock and fall and dis-
locate my shoulder. And that
spoilt the trip for me, because,
although I got it pulled back
directly, it was'a torment Until
we got home, and I lost
two days’ work over it
the next week.”
I’ll say it was a
torment! I’ve had it out
several times since, and
the last time required an
anaesthetic to get it back. I
remember Bill M. swinging on it
with his 15st. and Bill K. holding
me from behind:
“Anyhow, we went on until
we reached the beach about four-
o’clock in the afternoon, and
into the sea we went. The beach
was like a desert island, and it
seemed a long time since we’d
seen a human being. We boiled
the billy with brackish water
from a lagoon and went to bed
hungry beside a large fire of
driftwood. And in the night a
storm came up, so we dug into
the sand, but still finished wet
and cold in the morning.
“Sunday morning we boiled
the billy again and started off
along the beach intending to try
another point about seven miles
north of where we came over.
It was impossible to get back the
way we came. We looked three
wrecks by this time. We had to
laugh. What clothes we had were
in rags, just streamers and
ribbons flapping around us
mended up with fishing-line and
sugar-bag. One bloke had
sugar-bag tied around his feet
because his sandshoes fell off
him. We padded through a
burnt-out tea-tree swamp in a
foot of ashes, and then chopped
our way through a palm-swamp
so thick you’d think it was
twilight, and then up and over
the range again, taking a course'
from the sun.”
The remainder of the letter is
indecipherable, but I remember
the rest of the trip well. That
day we walked without a stop
from sunrise to 10-o’clock that
night, up hill and down dale. I
was only sick and tired and
wanted to die, but the other two
were famished, so they kept
going.
The rest of the gang called us
stupid etceteras when we stag-
gered into the barracks; theyd
been about to contact the police.
We didn’t hear the end of it
that season.
The Shaggy Ridge boys would
probably say, “Pooh! That’s
nothing to what happened to
us!” But I know that if Tom
Blarney had sent me to the jungle
of New Guinea instead of the
sand of West Australia I’d have
been more at home.
Racing Coup of the ’Eighties
R edford’s
"Brumby” Filly
By H. A. LINDSAY
IN 1886 it was decided to hold
a race-meeting at Tennant
Creek, then only a station on
the Overland Telegraph
Line. Several picnic meetings,
with stakes totalling £lOOO, had
already been held at Alice
Springs, and for the Tennant
Creek meeting an exceptionally
large crowd of men turned up,
coming from points as far dis-
tant as Darwin, the Barkly Table-
land, Western Queensland and
the far north of S.A.
Among thetn was a big man
who introduced himself as Harry
Bedford from Brunette Downs.
He spoke in a soft voice and
was affable in a dignified way.
“Would any of you gentlemen
like to look at my Brumby
Filly?” he said to a group of
station-owners. “She’s at my
camp out in the mulga. I’m
thinking of nominating her for
every race.”
The men weren’t impressed by
the mare’s appearance and said
so. Bedford seemed hurt by
their jeers.
“She’s only a little bit of a
thing,” he admitted. “That
harpoon head does spoil her
appearance. But she can’t help
her looks, gentlemen, and I
assure you she can gallop.”
The four bookmakers also
inspected the filly and showed
their opinions of the animal’s
chances by offering long odds.
When the clerk inquired her
name as he wrote the receipt for
the nomination fees, Bedford
drawled: “Oh, just put her down
as The Brumby Filly.”
Bedford then strolled around.
When he heard a bookie shout
“Twenty to one The Brumby
Filly,” he took out a leather bag
of sovereigns, “I’ll accept that
wager, sir,” he said, handing
over five of the coins.
The other bookmakers, eager
to be on the good thing, also
laid him a hundred to five. Red-
ford then took side-wagers with
the owners of other horses.
When his sovereigns ran out he
produced a roll of notes.
The sight of the bundle of
bank-notes, and the stack of
stock-agents’ cheques and “shin-
plaster” promissory-notes which
accompanied them, was more
than one bookmaker could resist.
“You’re a real sport to come
so far to the meeting and back
your horse so handsomely,” he
declared, wringing Redford’s
hand. “Care to have a bit more
on your horse?”
“Willingly,” the big man re-
plied, handing over some bank-
notes and entering the wager in
his pocketbook.
A few present thought things
were going too far.
“He won’t be left a feather
to fly with at this rate,” said the
committee chairman. “I’ll have
a word with the poor mug.”
He took Redford aside.
/ “I advise you to call off a few
bets,” he said. “Some good
horses are running today. Can’t
prove anything, but I fancy
there’s a few ring-ins here from
Queensland.”
Redford appeared to be
startled. “I thought I’d be deal-
ing only with gentlemen here!”
he said indignantly; then
shrugged his heavy shoulders.
“Too late now. I’ll take what’s
coming. Thank you for your
interest, sir, but I can’t go back
on a bet.”
When the horses went to the
post for the first race, Redford
led his filly from the scrub, re-
moved her bag rug and gave the
jockey a leg-up. In tones loud
enough to be heard by the crowd
he said to the boy;
“Try to get a good position
at the start. Hold it to the head
of the straight, then let her go.”
Grins, winks and guffaws
greeted this advice. Redford, his
face set, seemed to do his best
to ignore them. But there was
no laughing when the little filly
won by two lengths. The stunned
silence which greeted the victory
was broken by Redford saying:
“We-ell, gentlemen, what do
you think of my little Brumby
Filly now?”
The odds against her shortened
in the next race, but in spite of
haying to carry a 51b. penalty
she won it. In the third race,
odds against her came down to
evens. Only Redford backed
her, for she would be running
against fresh horses now —and
whoever heard of a horse win-
ning three races in a row?
A few minutes later the crowd
knew it was possible, for The
Brumby Filly did it, running
against Exile, who had a lot of
wins to his credit in Western
Queensland, and Puck, an
equally famous horse from The
Alice.
But even more surprising
things were to follow. The
Brumby Filly won the fourth
race, beating a couple more fresh
horses, then put the lid on things
by winning the fifth and last
event.
Then the astonishment of the
crowd gave way to anger. They
paid little attention to the fact
that they had seen racing history
made that day. Cursing and
threatening, they gathered
around Redford. He listened to
what they had to say with an
expression of cold contempt.
“An inquiry into the running
of my horse?” he retorted.
“Gentlemen, that would be too
silly for words! Before the
meeting I told you she was good.
I backed her openly in every
face. You’ll have everyone in
the country laughing at you if
you hold an inquiry. Don’t you
think,” he added, “you’d better
inquire into the running of the
horses my little filly beat so
easily?”
It had the desired effect. The
attention of the crowd went to
some of the other owners, and
soon knots of men were arguing
all over the paddock. Then the
bookmakers had their turn at
Redford. Thinking that no horse
o Continued on page 34)


The AGA is the
Regd. trade Mark
ONLY Cooker that
gives you oH THIS ..
•K We correct grade
ot coke now in
ampt* supply.
there simply isn’t space to tell
you the full story of Aga . . .
and the remarkable difference it
will make for you in comfort,
ease and tranquillity of living.
We can mention it’s a coke-
burning cooker with a difference,
a luxury difference that makes it
the finest cooker in the world.
We can lightly touch
upon such facts as:
• AGA can cook by itself . . . unwatched, unaided!
• Bums day and night ; . . ready for instant use, always!
• Requires only 10 minutes attention in every 24 hours!
• Gives all the hot water you could reasonably want ... for both
kitchen and bathroom!
AGA Is more economical . . . its fuel consumption, thermo-
statically controlled, is guaranteed never to exceed a definite,
and very modest, figure per year, no matter how much nor how
long you cook!
k-
POST TO-OA" FOR A FREE LEAFLET 3
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in New Zealand in 1841) ,
Sole Australian Agents for AGA
Cooker and Bendix Home Washer
NEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _ _ _ _ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Sts., Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ A. 6. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS; MALLOCH BROS. LTD.. Perth
SB
XF2
The name is
(D c Callum’s
OTCaUum*;
Scots Olhlikjr
c/m
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807.
" -
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NO TAKERS
The latest Russian proposal
for a conference on European
problems received a pretty sharp
going-over from both British
and U.S. newspapers. The pro-
posal would, in the New York
“Herald Tribune” view, “sub-
stitute some kind of collective
pact for all of Europe for Nato
and the European Defence Com-
munity ; unite and neutralise
Germany, and try to extend
East-West trade. All of this was
rejected by the West at Berlin,
except the portion relating to
trade.
“Since there is nothing sub-
stantially new in the [latest]
Soviet proposal the only reason
why it was advanced must lie in
the Russian hope that the climate
of opinion in Europe has
changed since the Berlin confer-
ence. The Kremlin doubtless
believes that German restlessness,
French satisfaction with the
Indo-Chinese pact and the British
desire to end the cold war may
make it possible to secure advan-
tages which were wisely denied
the Reds just a few months ago
at the Berlin conference.
“This approach would ignore
the fact that Europe is far more
sensitive to the threats which lie
within the Continent itself than
to such Far-Eastern problems as
Indo-China. The most immediate
threat to the West is that there
may be enough delay and con-
fusion introduced into Western
councils to postpone again the
ratification of the E.D.C.”
Elaborating on the same
subject, London “Spectator”
comments that “Mr. Molotov
gave us full warning of what to
expect at the end of the Geneva
Conference. He said that ‘it has
shown that the path of, negotia-
tion among the States concerned
can, under given conditions,
produce results corresponding to
the interests of the peoples and
to the requirements of the
strengthening of universal peace.’
“Having achieved more-or-less
what it set out to achieve in the
East, Moscow [thus] turns back
to Europe just in time, it may
hope, to use the false moral of
Geneva to delay once again the
rearmament of Germany.
“The Russian purpose, indeed,
may well be wider and more
ominous even than that. Euro-
pean and Asian opinion is at this
moment more susceptible to the
beguilements of ‘co-existence’
than at any time since the cold
war was declared.
“It is no longer merely the
politically silly and the politically
wicked, nor only the members of
the lunatic-fringe, who are
fumbling their way towards
what they hope is an escape from
what they believe to be the
inevitable collision between
Russia and America. This move-
ment, this hesitant, furtive
regress from the firm convictions
of the North Atlantic Treaty has
become much more general in
the last eighteen months ; and
the danger of Geneva is that it
seems to have opened to these
anxious seekers at least the
illusion of a hope of escape.” '
Still taking Mr. Molotov's
proposal to fine pieces, London
“Economist” adds that “his
unvarying aim is to weaken and
divide the non-Communist
world. At the moment his chief
preoccupation is to halt the
process of embodying Germany
in the Western world and prevent
either ratification of the Euro-
pean Defence Community or an
invitation to Germany to join
Nato (which is not an alternative
to E.D.C. but an inferior variant
of it). This is the target for
1954; behind it is the wider
objective of isolating the United
States from its friends and thus
disrupting Nato itself.
“This has been the aim of
Soviet policy ever since the end
of the war; there is nothing
either new or doubtful about it.
The only thing that has changed
is the method employed for
pursuing the aim. Stalin’s brutal
tactics obviously failed; now
Molotov is trying the soft treat-
ment. He is trying to drive a
wedge between the Western
Governments and their public
opinions by feeding the illusions
of politicians, of journalists and
of ordinary men and women who
long for peace and security.
“He hopes by these means to
win over the French Govern-
ment, to put the British and
German Governments on the
defensive in their own countries
and thus make them incapable
of any firmness, and by this
means, since he cannot convert
Newark (U.S.A.) “Evening News"
THEIR ONLY CHANCE?
the Americans, to leave them
bombinating in vacuo.
“Thus a new phase of the cold
war is on, fought not with threats
but with promises, playing not
upon the fears of free men but
upon their hopes. It is a much
more dangerous method of cold
war than Stalin ever pursued.
And, unfortunately, events have
provided the new campaign with
a magnificent exhibit in the con-
ference at Geneva.
“ ‘Look,’ the Western peoples
will be told over and over again
in the coming months, ‘what
progress can be made —if you
will only turn your backs on
those stupid Americans. See how
reasonable we can be in negotia-
tion if you will only leave your
guns outside the door ; if we have
appeared to be unyielding in the
past it is only because we were
afraid for our own security. If
only you will abandon your
arrangements for mutual de-
fence, there is nothing that
cannot be solved. As a first step
we can surely all promise to ban
that terrifying bomb.’ Thus will
the example of Geneva be tire-
lessly paraded in Communist
propaganda.
“The danger now,” continues
the “Economist,” “is not with
the sophisticates, the experts, the
chancelleries who understand
the facts of international life.
The danger is with the simple
folk who can be misled. And
since Geneva is evidently to be
the shining example, it is as well
to start with a few simple facts
about Geneva.
“The agreements reached at
Geneva were not a victory either
for the West, or for the spirit of
reason, or for M. Mendes-France
and Mr, Eden, They were the
acknowledgment of a defeat.
No one had an alternative course
to suggest—not even the
Americans, unless they were
willing to send a large army.
M. Mendes-France and Mr.
Eden were right to make the best
they could of a bad job, and
they did it skilfully. But no one
should be under any delusion
that it was anything but a very
bad job. Geneva was about as
much a victory in the diplomatic
field as Dunkirk in the military.
“Geneva does not prove that
anything significant can Tie
secured from the Communists by
negotiation. It was clear from
study of . the Communist Press
that the Russians certainly, and
the Chinese probably, were ready
to do a deal when the conference
opened. Whenever they think
the West is ready to give them
something, they will always be
ready to accept it across the con-
ference table, giving fair words
in return. To have this demon-
strated does not prove anything
about their willingness to make
any real concessions for the sake
of peace. It shows only that they
prefer not to fight if they can
get what they want without.
“What has happened in Indo-
China does not prove that the
neutralists in London, Paris and
Delhi are right, or that the
Americans are wrong. On the
whole, it proves the opposite.
The Communists, having got the
French on the run, forbore from
pressing their advantage home
and swallowing the whole of
Indo-China at once because, first,
they were thinking of Europe
and are more interested in split-
ting the French off from Nato
than in running them out of
Asia, and, second, they were
afraid the Americans might come
into the fight and turn it into a
real war.
“The first reason is a desire to
exploit Western political weak-
ness ; the second is respect for
Western military strength. In
neither case has moderation or
tolerance, or willingness to com-
promise, anything to do with the
motives of the Communists.
They reason in terms of power,
and can only be met in terms of
power. The Americans are not
wrong; they are much more
than half right.”
Russian and U.S.
Manpower
Birthrates don’t altogether win
wars —but they help. The follow-
ing comparisons (from “U.S.
News and World Report”) illus-
trate some interesting fluctua-
tions in those of America and
Russia:
“Russia already has a big
advantage over the U.S. in
military manpower. But new
studies, now being analysed by
American planners, show that
this advantage will increase
rapidly in the years just ahead.
By 1960 the Soviets will have
almost twice as many men of
military age as the U.S.
“Even now, the odds are
heavy. The U.S. feels • itself
pinched to maintain 22 divisions
under arms. The* Russians
maintain 175 smaller divisions.
“By next year, 1955, Russia
will have 26.1 million young men
of fighting age (between 20 and
34 years). The U.S. will have
only 17.4 million. That will give
Russia 8.7 million more
potential soldiers than the U.S. —
15 Russians for every 10
Americans.
“The odds go up every year
until 1960. In that year—only
six years away —Russia will have
30.5 million potential soldiers
and the U.S. only 17.2 million.
Russia’s numerical advantage
then will have grown to 13.3
million fighting men. The ratio
will be up to 18 Russians for
every 10 Americans.
“That year of 1960 will mark
Russia’s peak in relative strength.
After 1960, the odds go down —
but slowly. By 1965 Russia still
will have 16 fighting men for
every 10 Americans, with 28.9
million to 18.5 million for the
U.S. The Russians, in potential
soldiers, will outnumber, Ameri-
cans by 10.4 million.
“Not until 1970 will the relative
strengths of tlje two nations
return to their present ratio. In
that year, population records
indicate, Russia will have 30,3
million and the U.S. 21.9 million
men between 20 and 34. The
ratio favoring Russia will be 14
to 10. The Soviet numerical
advantage will be 8.4 million.
“The explanation for these ups
and downs of military manpower
lies in birth- and mortality-rates


WERE THE
FRENCH BETRAYED IN
INDO-CHINA?
Was the French defeat in Indo-China
“inevitable,” or was it the result of
treacherous policies which can be traced
back to an American State Department
still influenced by associates of Alger
Hiss and other secret Communists?
These and other aspects of the Com-
munist victory in Indo-China are dealt
with in the current issue of the League
of Rights’ monthly INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY.
Month by month THE INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY brings to its readers up-to-date
reliable reports and comment from all
over the world on the growing con-
spiracy against Christian Civilisation.
This SURVEY is essential for all re-
sponsible members of the community; it
provides them with vital information not
readily available elsewhere. A new
subscriber in England writes that THE
INTELLIGENCE SURVEY “is the best of
its type I have yet seen.”
Single issue of INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY, 4/-, post free.
Annual Subscription £2/2/- post free
Order from —
The Victorian Teague of Rights
( non-party; non-sectarian),
343 Lt. Collins Street, Melbourne.
Missing Beneficiary
THE children of MARY ELLEN COOMBS.
nee BERRYMAN, a daughter of WILLIAM
BERRYMAN and JANE ELLIS, who was
bom at Collingwood, Victoria, on the 28th
October, 1866, are entitled to share in
the estate of SARAH ANN PAINTER de-
ceased. Will they or any person having
information concerning them please com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria?
Regd. Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
While import restrictions
remain you may have diffi-
culty in obtaining XIIiIiEV
products.
For quality —for economy —for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 2461 Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality,
Burns 12 hours on pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power,
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer’s Representatives: (“the guardsman")
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.I.
IT’S PASTER BY FAR BY SPEEDBIRD!
It can cost you less
to do more business
overseas
See rout Travel Agent for
complete trip-planning help
—no charge.
Convert unproductive travel time to
profit-making time. Save valuable days—
even weeks —as you fly on 8.0.A.C.
Speedbird routes linking 51 countries.
Gain extra time to do more business,
more quickly, in more world markets.
Stop-over to relax, wherever you wish—
and still be home weeks sooner!
8.0.A.C. airliners are fully-pressurized—
you fly in perfect comfort. Hotel
accommodation, meals and surface
transport provided at scheduled night-stops.
Speedbird Services link Australia with
INDONESIA, MALAYA, BURMA. THAILAND,
HONG KONG. JAPAN, CEYLON, INDIA,
PAKISTAN, MIDDLE EAST. AFRICA. EUROPE,
GREAT BRITAIN. U.S.A., CANADA. CENTRAL
AND SOUTH AMERICA, BERMUDA.
flMflW
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas
Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND B.A.A.
of years gone by. The story
begins in the 1930’5. There was
a depression then in the United
States. Hard times and a lack
of confidence in the future kept
Americans from adding to their
families at the normal rate.
Births averaged only 17.1 per
1000 of population. Russians,
however, were having babies at
the rate of 35 per 1000.
“America’s birthrate began
picking-up in 1940. But the
damage had already been done.
Children born in 1940 will not
become 20 years old until 1960.
That’s when the tide begins to
turn in America’s favor.
“As the high U.S. birthrate of
post-war years begins to be felt
in military ranks —around 1965
—the manpower tide will run
strongly for America. When
World War II ended and soldiers
returned home, Americans began
having babies at the rate of 26
per 1000 of population—a sharp
contrast with the 17.3 per 1000
of 1939.
“Russia, meanwhile, began
slowing-down in the baby-race.
Millions of potential Russian
fathers were killed in the war,
and those who survived were
kept away from their home# as
Soviet armies remained big.
Russia’s birthrate has dropped
to 28 instead of 35 per 1000.
“Changes in the structure of
Soviet society also are working
now against the Russians, as
regards future military man-
power. With Soviet industry
expanding, Russians have been
moving from farms into cities.
More women have taken jobs.
The average woman has fewer
children.,
“In the long run, then, the
tendency is for birthrates in
Russia and in the U.S. to
equalise. Time, after 1960, will
no longer be on the side of
Russia.”
"Hot Ashes"
Although no atomic-power
plants are yet in operation,
engineers are already concerned
with the problem of “hot ashes”
—the radioactive wastes with
which they must deal in the not-
so-remote future.
Commenting editorially on
the subject, “New York Times”
points out that “if the wastes
were turned into rivers, fish
caught in the water would prob-
ably be as radioactive as those
contaminated by ‘fall out’ in
Japanese smacks during the
Eniwetok experiments, and if
buried they would contaminate
the soil. At present there is
nothing for it but to store wastes
from experimental nuclear reac-
tors in tanks, which is not the
best method, because metal
corrodes, so that liquids may
leak out and eventually seep into
the reservoirs of cities.
“The astronauts have sug-
gested that the ‘hot ashes’ be
dumped into the vast universe
by some sort of rocket garbage-
scow that will ply between the
earth and an orbit not too
distant, whereupon the wastes
would circulate around the earth
indefinitely. It is even main-
tained that Mars or Venus would
be fine dumping-grounds —a sug-
gestion that would not be
received with enthusiasm by
Martians or Venusians, if there
are any. Then there are the un-
inhabitable asteroids, of which
there are about 40,000. The
larger ones would do, with no
objections.
“Dr. W. A. Roger, of the
Argonne National Laboratory,
went into these matters more
practically at the recent Inter-
national Congress of Nuclear
Engineering at the University of
Michigan. Sealing the wastes in
cement and dumping the blocks
into the ocean may serve for a
time, but as atomic-power
plants increase in number
another solution will have to be
found,
“Dr. Roger estimates that it
may be necessary some day to
get rid of three tons of radio-,
active wastes a day. This is no
large amount, yet it is formidable
because it must be diluted
Disposing of radioactive
strontium 90 alone would require
about five per cent, of all the
ocean water on earth. So Dr.
Roger concludes that until we
discover a more effective way we
shall have to bury the wastes in
deserts or deposit them in aban-
doned mines.”
Dragnet Digest
British Labor’s Peking Visit. —
Objections have been by no
means general. London “News
Chronicle,” for one, disagrees
with the critics: “No' one is
more aware of the pitfalls which
this journey can produce than
Mr. Attlee. And no one is more
qualified to avoid them. Mr.
Attlee will no doubt gain some
useful information from his
journeyings in China. What is
much more important, he can be
relied upon to give the Chinese
leaders a fair and accurate
picture of British opinion. If
he is wise he will also warn them
of the dangers of trying America
too far.”
Colonial Doctrine. —It is just
over 100 years since the British
War and Colonial Departments
were separated, and, commenting
on the centenary in London
“Daily Telegraph,” Lord Winster
observes that “modem Colonial
doctrine seems to be based upon
an assumption that no country
has a right to govern another
country. That in doing so it
may make the other country
considerably more prosperous
only, I gather, aggravates the
offence. The disadvantages of
being poor and backward are
supposed to find ample compen-
sation in the joy of being your
own master.”
Outlawing Communism.
The question, in a “New York
Times” view, is “not whether we
[Americans] dislike Communism
but how best, in the light of our
traditions and present responsi-
bilities, to deal with, it. We can't
put the whole party in jail. Prob-
ably we will have to continue to
proceed against individuals for
specified offences, just as we do
against murderers and burglars.
And certainly persons charged
with being members of a Com-
munist conspiracy should con-
tinue to have the same rights—
as they have had, to the last
ounce of judicial patience—as
burglars and murderers.”
Bastion Trio. —“N. Y. Times”
correspondent C. L. Sulzberger:
“The bloc formed by Turkey,
Greece and Yugoslavia has
become a potentially strong de-
fensive bastion. In these three
countries more trained soldiers
are kept" under arms than any-
where else in Europe. Their
vitality and willingness to fight
when, where and if necessary
has been proved from the Yellow
:i Sea to the Adriatic.”
Commonwealth Division.
Discussing the uncertain future
of the First Commonwealth
Division which rendered such
excellent service in Korea,
London “Evening News” notes
that “units from the United
Kingdom, Australia and Canada
—and an excellent field
ambulance from the Republic of
India —were welded into a
division of the highest morale
and fighting calibre. National
and regimental traditions
blended in keen and friendly
rivalry. Gunners from countries
the width of the world apart
swapped, in vastly differing
accents, those formidable tech-
nicalities in which gunners
customarily indulge. And the
Divisional Commanders, hitherto
supplied by the United Kingdom,
have been soldiers of the highest
quality and inspiring leaders of
men. Unique in the way it has
been built up, unique in the pride
and loyalties it has evoked, the
First Commonwealth Division is
an achievement that demands to
be sustained.”
U.S. Losses in Korea. —
Revised figures from the U.S.
Defence Department list
American casualties in Korea at
33,417 dead, 103,269 wounded
in action and 230 still missing
over a year after the cease-fire.
The dead include 23,345 killed
in action, 2499 died of wounds
and 7573 “missing in action —
known or presumed dead.”
Kremlin Tally of World Com-
munism.— ‘The Agitators’ Note-
book,” lately issued in Moscow
by the Central Committee of the
Soviet Communist party, lists the
world total of Communist-party
members as under 30,000,000. It
describes the party as a rela-
tively small cadre which limits
its world membership through
periodic purges. In the Soviet
Union there are about 7,000,000
members in a total population of
200,000,000. In Communist
China about 6,500,000 members
hold sway over 600,000,000
people. The Soviet satellite
States of Eastern Europe have
about 7,400,000 Communist-
party members for 200,000,000
people.
U.S. Post-war Training.
More than 7,800,000 American
ex-servicemen from World War
II —over half of the number who
actually served in the war—have
since received education or train-
ing under the “G.I. Bill of
Rights.” According to the U.S.
Information Service, 2,000,000 of
them attended colleges or uni-
versities, 3,500,000 went to
schools below college level,
nearly 1,500,000 took on-the-job
training, and 700,000 received
on-the-farm training.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Our Artists
The impression gained in England,
from the work of our artists, that this is
a “harsh, sun-parched kind of place” (B.
4/8/’54) may be due to another factor
besides the choice of subjects for pictures.
Australian paintings shown in Eng-
land may not be properly representative
of our artists’ output. About six weeks
ago, for instance, a show (oils and water-
colors) was held in a church hall at
Balwyn (Vic.) and attracted more than
200 worth-while exhibits from many
obscure as well as distinguished artists.
The whole was a well-balanced and varied
collection which, if transported in its
entirety to an English gallery, would
have convinced the public over there
that the minds of our contemporaries are
not all dominated by deserts and slums.
There was an exhibition of Australian
art in London a few months ago. It was
notable for its surprising omissions.
There are scores of artists here whose
work clamors for recognition overseas.
If regular shows were arranged and a
wider selection of pictures put in them,
there would be no cause to doubt the
versatility of our artists. — Arthur Falk
(Vic.).
Lady Dudley and “The Banjo”
Few people remember that Lady
Dudley (B. 21/7/’54) called on “Banjo”
Paterson for help in her bush nursing
scheme when the medical men had
downed it.
Paterson wrote:
“Lady Dudley decided that she would
establish all over Australia a chain of
bush nurses, trained women who would
be ministering angels to the poor and
sick in the backblocks.
“The idea involved the expending of a
lot of money, but there was plenty of
money about. The scheme would have
gone through with a bang only that the
medical profession for once sank all their
internecine feuds, and combined against
Lady Dudley. Under her scheme the
nurses would be responsible only to God
and Lady Dudley. ‘We can kill plenty of
people ourselves,’ said one doctor, ‘with-
out having to step in and finish off the
nurses’ mistakes.’
“I was not without some sort of
notoriety in my own country at that time,
so I was more puzzled than surprised
when I received a command to wait upon
Lady Dudley at Government House.
What could her ladyship want with me?
Did she want me to write an ode in
favor of bush nursing? I went down and
was shown into a private parlor. Lady
Dudley came in ; a singularly beautiful
woman, graceful, and with a voice that
had the range of an organ and had been
carefully trained.
“ ‘You have heard of my scheme, Mr.
Paterson,’ she said, ‘and of the opposition
there is to it. Now I am determined to
go on with it. You are well known among
the bush people, and I want you to
organise a trip for me through all the
backblock towns. I will live in the
Governor-General’s train, and I will
address meetings and ask for subscrip-
tions in every centre, even in the small
places. I will get £20,000 without any
trouble. Will you help me to do it?’
“I had done some backblocks touring,
and pictured to myself this delicately
reared woman addressing bush audiences
night after night in smelly little country
halls with the thermometer at 110 degrees.
“I knew that the local doctors would
warn all the wealthy people to keep their
money in their pockets as the scheme was
sure to fail. •
“But such was my admiration for her
pluck that I would have gone with her
had it been in any way possible to do so.
The tour never came off. Still, Lady
Dudley did manage to establish a few
nurses in spite of hell and high water.”
Lady Dudley’s scheme was not a
failure; before she left Australia, in
1911, the first bush nurse was settled at
Jindabyne. By 1926 there were 35
centres each stationed 60 or 70 miles
from a doctor. —F. E. H. (N.S.W.).
“Underpaid Merit”
“Parram” is right that we hear too
much of overpaid laziness and too little
of underpaid merit (B. 21/7/’54).
One instance in Australia of this under-
paid merit is the scientific worker. There
is a shortage of scientists, particularly,
in the public service, both Common-
wealth and State. Salaries offered to
even the very-highly-skilled in Govern-
ment employ are low compared with
those paid by private industry, and com-
pare poorly even with wages paid in some
trades. At the same time research-
chemists and -engineers employed by
private industry are by no means over-
paid.
As Professor Oliphant said lately,
scientists should be assured of an income
sufficient to enable them to devote them-
selves fully to their work and to their
necessary research without being dis-
tracted financially.
Increased pay should attract more for
scientific, work. Something will certainly
need to be done soon in that direction.
Australian industry is all the time expand-
ing, and must have more and more highly
skilled men in the various branches of
science. They are needed by both
Government (in defence work, for one
thing) and private industry.— Keima (Q.).
TV
Another aspect of the approaching
TV battle (B. 30/6/’54) is the position of
Australian writers. We have three years
to get going, but where in Australia can
the techniques of TV-writing be learned?
Unless something is done by technical
schools, and by the radio authorities
who will control TV, Australian writers
will be in the same position as they were
when radio first started in this country.
English and American writers, with a
head-start on the Australians in radio
techniques, swamped the Australian
market and began gathering in the fruits,
and we still haven’t caught up. Less than
5 per cent, of drama scripts used annually
by the A.B.C. are written by. Australians,
including adaptations. The rest are
“Why don't you be a gent, an' give the lady your seat?"
either 8.8. C. productions, or plays
written by overseas writers.
Why? We have the writers—a whole
generation has grown up to accept radio
as a distinctive dramatic medium, and
we have a radio set-up equal to any in
the world. I think the reason is that no
effort has ever been made to show Aus-
tralian writers how to write for radio.
Only those with the good fortune to get
a leg-in with a producer can learn what
is and what isn’t good radio.
Very few Australian writers can afford
to go overseas to study TV methods, so
“ Yoo-hoo! Your bath's ready, John."
something is needed now to ensure that
Australian writers are not left at the post
as they were with radio. There should
be co-operation between the A.8.C.,
commercial interests and technical col-
leges in every State, For each college
one experienced writer-producer from
overseas, preferably Britain, would be
needed for instruction purposes and to
write suitable courses in TV methods.
It is significant that every State has a
well-established course in the technica
side of TV. We should ensure that the
script-writing, as well as the tinkering, is
done by Australians. V. J. H. (W.A.).
Our Mortgage
S , i .. .
The Federal Treasurer has been on the
market again on behalf of his
ment, this tune for a mere £50,000,000.
We are all well aware of this constant
borrowing, but nothing ever seems to be
mentioned m the loan advertisements as
to what reduction is being made in e
national debt. I have no idea what the
total stands at now, but I do know tha
between June 30, 1939, and the same
date 1 P u hhc debt increased
from £1347 million to £3198 mill n
not a bad effort, even allowing tor the
war years.
The point is made that these loans -are
vital to national development, and that
the money is required for public-works
programmes. That sounds very well, but
much of our trouble in the past was due
to borrowing for non-productive public
works.
1 notice, also, that the life-assurance
companies were, as usual, much in
evidence among the advance subscribers.
That’s easy to understand, as they seem
to lack any other outlet for their funds
—that is, in large chunks. In itself, that
is not a good sign. In a healthy economy
there should be ample outlet for such
funds without the necessity for handing
them over to spendthrift Governments—
all Governments are notorious in that
regard.
The different savings banks also seem
to have trouble in placing the bulk of
their funds in other than Commonwealth
loans. If that is the best use they can
nut the money to, then it would be far
better if the individual were induced to
place the money with the Federal Gov-
emment direct. However, instead of
such an inducement, we find the savings
banks quite recently advertising that they
have actually raised the interest-beanng
limit on accounts. The whole thing is
wrong and diametrically opposed to one
of the recommendations of the Royal
Commission on Banking.
The interest on our public debt imposes
only a small charge on the national in-
come of Australia. That, of course, is
lareelv due to the inflationary state of
but what a different picture will
show up when the national income drops,
Our old friend the sheep is carrying
a terrific burden in that regard, and carry-
ing it well, but we do have droughts
sometimes.
I noticed, also, in the advertisements
for the latest loan, that “interest will be
paid regularly at the same rate for the
full currency of the investment” and, as
regards principal, “repayment in full at
maturity is guaranteed.”
Brave words. Who is to say what may
happen before October, 1967? It’s a long
way ahead and there are still many in-
vestors who recall the famous Premiers’
Plan, when maturity-dates of loans were
compulsorily extended and interest-rates
reduced. Don’t tell me it can’t happen
again.
The recollection of all that is, I sup-
pose, one of the penalties for living too
long, but I can’t help remembering it all
every time I read these confounded
advertisements. — Ceg (Vic.).
Retiring Age
Those who want the retiring age
to 60 should study the reports
of the International Association of Geron-
tolo y
when recently addressing 600 world
eX p er ts on the study of long life (geron-
tology) the British president-elect, Dr.
J - H - Sheldon > said that > whereas 60
years ago boys could expect to five to
44 and J 4g> by 1951 the figures had
r j sen to 66 for boys and 71 for girls. The
ra „j d development of life-saving drugs
nQW ye tbe man 0 £ an expectation
of an£)ther 15 &
Speaking of Britain, Dr. Sheldon said:
“■phere are now more old people than
there afe in the mid dl e -age group that
bas to SU pp or £ them.”
j n Australia, too, the proportion of
aged people is becoming overburdensome
tQ tbe m jddle-aged group who comprise
tbe overwhelming body of taxpayers,
Last year soc i a £ services, mostly for the
aged> cost £160,000,000, or 6s. out of
every pound paid in income tax. Rather
tba n increase this burden by compul-
SOl -ii y retiring healthy men in their sixties
there is a much stronger case for advanc-
the retiring age.—K. Me. (N.S.W.).
, Harerave
Lawrence Margrave ,
Some years ago I tried to get Adelaides
new airport at West Beach named in
honor of Lawrence Hargrave (B.
14/7/’54). The then Minister for Air
turned down the suggestion, giving as
his reason the fact that Sydney s airport
had been named after Kmgsford Smith,
but that nobody called it by any name
other than its original Mascot,
11 was a P oor excuse for dom g nothing.
Adelaide’s case is different; the airport
is a new one, and given the name of Har-
grave, with suitable publicity at the open-
ing ceremony, would be known by that
name only.
But “W.P.T.” errs in saying that the
only existing memorials to the Australian
aviation pioneer are the brass plate
his old home at Daring aonS
monument at Stanwell Park An appeal
was forwarded through E. E. Anthony,
of the S.A. Council to
the newly established Chair of Aeronauti-
cal Engineering at the Unr/ersity of
Sydney named after
gestion was adopted immedia y
the naming of a Chau at a gre
versity is ;indeed an honor,
Perhaps A. G. Towniey
Minister for Air, will give the idea of
naming Adelaide’s airport after^ a rgrav
a better hearing than his predecessor did.
—H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).


Margarine
The Queensland dairyfarmers’ grudge
against margarine is that its main con-
stituent is produced in the islands by
cheap labor (B. 30/6/’54). Most people
in Australia do not understand the labor
position in the islands —although there
have been many paragraphs in The
Bulletin on the natives’ reluctance to
work. .
Here in Fiji the Fijian and Indian will
work only when supervised, and then
very slowly, so that a fair estimate is
that it takes five to do the work that is
done by one man- in Australia. Their
wages are low, but when multiplied by
five and added to the cost of housing,
electricity, food-rations and medical
benefits for the five and their families,
the result is a respectable figure.
Fijian sugar cannot be sold in Aus-
tralia because it is produced by “cheap
labor.” Actually it costs more to produce
sugar in Fiji than it does in Queensland,
the principal reason being the cost of
labor.
Similar conditions prevail on the gold-
fields, where cost of development using
“cheap labor” is as high as in Australia
under similar mining, conditions.
With regard to butter and margarine,
there may b© small local variations, but
margarine produced in Fiji sells at 3s. a
pound as against 2s, Bd. for the Austra-
lian variety. Fiji butter is 3s. Bd. a
pound as against 4s. Id. for New Zea-
land (£FIOO is approximately £AII2).
Life here is pleasant and cheap in com-
parison with many parts of Australia,
but I imagine it is very little different
from North Queensland. Those who
gain most from the cheap labor here are
the housewives, who can afford a ser-
vant, whereas most of them could not do
so in Australia. But the convenience
and cheapness of labor for the big pro-
ducer are greatly overrated. —M. T.
Pezet (Fiji).
“Populate or Perish”
While most Australians support the
Whit© Australia policy, the majority of
them don’t seem to have the slightest
idea of their responsibilities if that policy
is to be maintained.
The census just taken will probably
show Australia’s population to be in the
vicinity of 9,000,000. The population of
those countries of Asia which are immedi-
ately affected by the White Australia
policy approximates 1100 million. In
electing to keep on with the policy Aus-
tralians must recognise the tremendous
disparity in population with Asian
countries.
Certainly some Asian leaders admit
that the policy is the domestic concern
of Australia, and as such they can have
no quarrel with it, but they are in the
minority. 'Miere are Asian leaders who
“He only means ‘ Boo !’”
look upon it as sheer racial discrimination,
and openly say so. Further, there are
some Moscow-trained" Asian leaders who,
without any compunction whatever, are
using and will continue to use it for their
own evil ends.
Events in South-East Asia make it
plain that Western colonialism is giving
way to nationalism and Communist im-
perialism. Once this process has been
completed it looks probable that the
White Australia policy will be challenged.
If and when that challenge is made,
what would be Australia’s chances of
emerging as a free nation with the policy
intact?
It’s no use Australians relying entirely
upon the Anzus Agreement or the pro-
posed Seato for their security; they must
also willingly accept the burden of
defence and vigorously develop their
country and populate it. Could we, in
five or ten years’ time, defend this
country with a population of 10 or 12
million people? Yet some economists
have put the maximum population Aus-
tralia can support at 25 million, and that
in 50 years’ timfe!
In their Social Justice Statement of
1951 the Catholic Bishops of Australia
concluded, inter alia: “We have refused
to populate this country... .We have
denuded the land and crowded our
population into great cities. The instinct
for honest work is under constant attack
from habits of thought and practices
which treat work as an evil thing. The
glaring threat of Communist subversion
has been unable to rescue the masses
from their apathy.”
It doesn’t matter whether you are
Catholic or Anglican, or of any other
religious faith, the conclusions of the
Catholic Bishops are incontrovertible.
For a generation or more Australians
have been warned -of the consequences
if they fail to increase their population
and to develop their country. The warn-
ings have not been heeded. W. M.
Hughes’s “Populate or perish” became
just another catch-cry. R. G. Casey’s
book Double or Quit passed almost un-
noticed.
From 1948 up to and including the
first quarter of 1954 some 618,000
migrants have come to Australia. In
many respects that intake has been
remarkable, but in relation to - our real
population needs it is quite inadequate.
In 1951 Air-Chief-Marshal Sir Guy
Garrod, in an article in the November-
December issue of the “I.P.A. Review,”
wrote of the need for a “richer and
stronger British • Commonwealth.” He
proposed the decentralisation of British
industry and .population, and asserted;
“We need a co-operative endeavor today,
in order to speed forward the mass migra-
tion from Great Britain to the Dominions
(yes, and from Continental Europe also)
which is the only way of developing their
latent resources in time to restore the
British Commonwealth, before it is too
late.”
• That plan to transfer population and
industry was a bold and imaginative
one, and it is precisely what Australia
must have if it is to survive as a free
nation. —D. J. K. (Q.).
Corruption by Power
Crichel Down, 750 acres of .Dorsetshire
farmland, is a name that is now as surely
enshrined in English constitutional his-
tory as the 10-mile-distant Tolpuddle .of
the Martyrs.
Both represent examples of flagrant in-
fringements of the rights of man. Tol-
puddle concerned a bad boss and a few
strong-minded workmen. Crichel Down
was less clear-cut, less black-and-white,
because its background was —and is—
national, and not local.
It involved a bombing-site, compul-
sorily purchased during the war. That
purpose served, instead of being returned
to its former owner, it was shuffled from
one Ministry to another, ultimately to
become the pet scheme —a model farm —
of a coterie of self-centred planners.
The expansion of the Civil Service
under the Welfare State and the Labor
Government’s preoccupation with State-
control has given rise to a new bureau-
cracy which, fortified by a multiplicity of
obtuse legislation, has had too much of
its own way. For the most part, the frus-
trated or wronged individual has been
forced to give up his fight, knowing that
the bureaucrat, by one means or another,
would be sure to have the last word.
But Commander Marten, husband of
the rightful heir to Crichel Down, had
both the means and the temper to pursue
his cause to the end. He is directly respon-
sible for a most beneficial clearing of the
air—though not, ironically enough,
successful in his objective of regaining
the Down, since there is no legal way of
evicting the sitting tenant who was
appointed to the farm.
There seems to be no end to the reper-
cussions that followed this one man’s
determination to redress his private
grievance. The latest is a spotlight on the
actual and psychological make-up of the
Civil Service, its need for rethinking, and
some way of removing, or disciplining,
from outside its worst offenders (being
aloof from politics, civil servants are, of
course, immune from political inter-
ference).
Already, the force of public opinion
has had a good run for its waste of
money. Sir Andrew Clark’s report on
the behavior of the officials concerned,
their infatuation with their precious plan
and the outraged meanness of their
attitude (“engendered solely by a feeling
of irritation that any member of the
public should have the temerity to oppose
or even question the acts or decisions of
officials of a Government or State depart-
ment”) has laid bare a sorry tale of
muddle, inefficiency and mischief. This
has thoroughly shaken the Civil Service
heads. In future, land compulsorily pur-
chased will be offered back to its former
owners if it is no longer required.
The Minister of Agriculture felt him-,
self honof-bound to assume responsibility
for the scandal and resigned. This old-
fashioned course, so alien to so many of
our present-day politicians, is not the
least illuminating outcome of the affair.
—Herbert Holman (London). t
Britain and the H-bomb
Britain’s strategy and attitude to world
affairs now seem governed by her ex-
treme vulnerability to the hydrogen-
bomb. At least that is the impression
given by Sir Winston Churchill’s
speeches on the British withdrawal from
Egypt.
British defence authorities also say that
“decentralisation and dispersal” are now
imperative. The Dominions have held
that view since 1945, and have constantly
advocated the transfer of a substantial
proportion of Britain’s population and
industries to the Dominions as the basis
of a scheme to make these vast territories
the centres of Commonwealth strength.
Except for Woomera, and one or two
other schemes, very little has been done.
In fact, the British P.M. was against it,
and urged the British people to “stay
home and fight it out.”
The present situation seems to be that
Britain can be “neutralised” by the mere
threat of the H-bomb. It also means that
Britain might no longer be able to risk
helping the Dominions if they faced war.
Before 1939 legalists used to argue over
the Dominions’ position if they chose
neutrality when Britain went to war, but
nobody envisaged a neutral Britain
while the Dominions were at war. That
is the worst view, of course, but it is
only by examining the worst that we can
see the full extent of the danger to which
we are exposed. Britain’s instinct in such
a case would be to fight whatever the
consequences, but it might have a Gov-
ernment with different views.
Britain’s scientific genius, spirit and
, courage can never be discounted ; but to
rely on those imponderables to outweigh
the rise of Soviet atomic-power is to
make the same error as the French did
before 1914 when they depended on a
confused racial mystique France’s
“Spirit of the Offensive” —to defeat the
overwhelming military power of Ger-
many.
* This genius and courage is not confined
,to Britain. It is evident in the great young
countries discovered and colonised by
the British and now being built up by
their descendants. Yet there is still a
tendency for Britain to look on the
Dominions as mere storehouses of food
and raw materials for British workers and
their machines. This is a last flicker of
the old British attitude to the American
colonies, when certain manufactures not
only were reserved entirely for Britain
but could only be transported to America
in English ships. That prevented the rise
of American industry and of an American
merchant marine and led directly to the
War of Independence.
Inevitably the larger Dominions must
evolve into nations more powerful than
Britain. They realise that and are deter-
mined to achieve their full potentialities.
That must lead to strains within the
Commonwealth, particularly when the
senior Power is dependent on exports
and imported food for its existence.
The only remedy is a frank recognition
by all concerned of these facts and active
participation in a scheme to build the
Dominions into the future strongholds of
British power. If Britain were threatened
with extinction at any moment by an
enormous volcano on the European
mainland she would immediately prepare
to distribute her resources and popula-
tion throughout the Dominions. The
position today is almost as urgent. —
Mabsout (Vic.).
Railway History
The announcement that a new stamp
will be issued in September “to com-
memorate the opening on September 13,
1854, of the first steam railway between
Melbourne arid Sandridge (now Port
Melbourne)” draws attention to an oft-
repeated mistake in Australian railway
dates. The Melbourne and Hobson’s Bay
railway, opened by the then Governor of
Victoria, Sir Charles Hotham, was
reported in the Melbourne “Argus” of
September 13, 1854, but the opening
ceremony took place the day before —
on September 12, 1854. The handbook
of information issued by N. S. Wales
Railways gives the wrong date, as do the
Australian Encyclopaedia and the London
Railway Year Book.
Another mix-up in railway history is
the series of different names attributed to
the Sydney to Granville railway, which
will be celebrating its centenary next
year. The Commonwealth Year Book
used the name “The Sydney Railroad
and Tramway Co.” in its first issue (1908),
and repeated it yearly until 1922. In
fhe Australian Encyclopaedia the title
appears as the “Sydney Tramway and
Railway Co.”
The correct title is given in the Act
of Incorporation of the Company,
assented to on October 10, 1849, which
says the company shall be styled “The
Sydney Railway Company.” Geo,
Beesley (N.S.W.).


Slum’s getting: all the gadgets!
What about a Farmers’ Boy for Dad.
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Plough attached
“Farmers’ BOY” Series 11, Mark XII, 1J h.p. Vllliers
Engine, Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 2
Hoeing blades, lOin. Tool-bar, S universal standards,
and power take-off.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS' BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit
for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe Rotary Hoe Sawbench
Paspalum
*guillotined I
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney. BW 4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND Ltd., 115 York St., Launceston.
Launceston 2645; and 167 Murray St.,' Hobart. B 2264.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Lawnmower
Cutter Bar
Other attachments include: —
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR for Inflating
tyres, Spray-painting, etc. FURRQWEP,
TRAILER, DUSTER, DISC HARROWS,
GENERATOR for hole-boring, lighting, etc.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State .
Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS’ j
BOY” and ACCESSORIES.
Name
Address •
J
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
BRISBANE SHOW
T'\ESPITE three wet days,
663,990 people passed
through the turtistiles. Total
gate-takings were £88,146 —only
£B5 short of last year’s.
ZEBUS
For the first time classes were
provided for Zebu purebred
and crossbred cattle. The R.N.A.
was criticised for encouraging
these ungainly'creatures, but they
proved an unparalleled attrac-
tion ; the stalls were jammed day
and night with hordes of people
who asked so many questions
that the attendants were thankful
for the respite given by the rain.
Cattlemen were not impressed
by the make or shape of the
Brahmans. Despite the claims
being made for the superior
weight-gains of their kind, the
best weight for a 21-month-old
three-eighths Zebu - Shorthorn
was 11571 b., compared with
13001 b. to 14501 b. for 16-month-
old Herefords.
HEREFORDS
White faces made their usual
spectacular showing under
Queensland’s premier cattleman,
Jim Sparkes, M.L.A. The 1954
champion Hereford bull was
Hays Bros,’ (Narrabri, N.S.W.)
Bexley Corvette, by Sugwas
Dandy (imp.), and purchased for
1600gns. by G. J. Lee, Goondi-
windi (Q.). Junior champion was
William Mcllrath’s (N.S.W.)
Windsor Talisman, who will be
a candidate for senior champion-
ship honors in Sydney next
Easter. Both reserves went to
Timor-bred sons of Cuppa
Courageous, and female honors
went to a Queensland stud,
Ennisview, whose get of Weston
Great Month (imp.) won for
sires’ progeny.
Sensation of the subsequent
sales was the Queensland record
auction-price for a Hereford of
2500gn5., paid by D. R.
Cameron, Begonia, Mitchell, for
Colly Creek Democrat, placed
second in the under-12-months
class, which was won by Bexley
Bandit, retained by his breeders
for exhibition in Sydney.
POLL HEREFORDS
Poll Herefords set a record
for Brisbane, 101 bulls and 26
heifers parading before I. A,
Barnett, New Zealand.
Another record was created
when every bull in the champion-
ship line-up was found to belong
to the same exhibitor- —Mrs.
N. P. Wright, Blandford
(N.S.W.), who has only been
breeding Polls since 1949.
Lyndley Fortune took the senior
championship and Lyndley
Hillary the junior award. The
only stud except Blandford to
win with a bull class was J. R,
Perrett’s Mt. Hope stud,
Kingaroy (Q.)„ which presented
both first and second prize-
winners in the 10-12-months
class. Champion cow was
Perrett’s Mt. Hope Gemanna,
with E. W. McCamley’s Eulogie
Fancy 6th reserve.
SHORTHORNS
Shorthorns seemed to be get-
ting too soft for northern condi-
tions and some of the cattle
walked badly. In* this section
progeny of 10 imported bulls
collected 21 places, while
Australian-bred sires were repre-
sented by eight placings.
The champion bull, Woomar-
gama Paradox, had the distinc-
tion of siring the champion cow,
Wirrah Poplin. Both were
exhibited by H. R. Lomax,
Werris Creek (N.S.W.). Junior
champion bull, Weenya
Control, by Glastullich Kenneth
(imp.) from Castrad Mysie 3rd
(imp.),, was sold by A. and
W. Lambell, Gulargambone
(N.S.W.), for lOOOgns. to J. S.
White, Brunette stud, Muswell-
brook (N.S.W.), who intended
buying a bull in Scotland, but
said he doubted if he could get
one as good for three times the
money.
POLL SHORTHORNS
Poll Shorthorns made their
best showing to date, with the
blind breeder of Warwick (Q.),
J. T. Scrymgeour, 0.8. E., again
on top, though prevented by
illness from attending in person,
this being the first Brisbane
Show he missed in 34 years.
Dalguise Gay Lad was
champion bull and Netherby
Snow White champion cow.
Other successful exhibitors were
Bruce Walker, Eric Killen,
William Leonard and Son, G. R.
Lee and Son, Lionel Whitelaw
and the Langmore family.
ABERDEEN-ANGUS
“They’re a bit like chorus-
girls—showing too much leg,”
said C. Mackenzie, Cullissie,
Nigg Station, Ross-shire, Scot-
land, as he watched C. W. Gill
hand out the ribbons in a strong
Aberdeen-Angus section. Beef
considerations influenced the
championship decision in favor
of F. H. Hutton’s (Dingo, Q.)
Bingegang Gratitude 29th, son
of 2800gns. Gratitude of Ford-
house (imp.), though for type,
the reserve bull, Wallah Navi-
gator (Wallah Pastoral Co.,
N.S.W.), by Benes of Gaidrew
(imp.), was the popular choice.
Junior champion was Wallah
Twilbee, a gift at 750gns., and
purchased by the judge, with
W. E. Webster’s (Q.) Sarum
Jago reserve junior.
FAT CATTLE
Fat-cattle judge Harry
Simpson brought a tirade of
criticism on his head by making
R. L. Sparkes’s Poll Hereford,
weighing 17301 b. at three years,
champion bullock of the show.
Authorities like W. A. Gunn
and C. C. Bradly argued that it
was wrong to award Royal Show
prizes to a carcass unsuitable for
either the domestic or export
trade, and that it was high time
the schedule was revised.
Simpson contended that the
champion was outstanding for
maturity at the age and ideal
export beef.
The 320 cattle which made up
Australia’s best showing of fat-
cattle were down 50 on last year,
due to the dry spell between
February and July.
Carcasses in the Australian
“Can he cook?”
Meat Board competition, judged
on hoof and hook, were the
poorest lot since the competition
has been running. Blacks took
first, second and third in the
pasture section, which was won
by T. W. and J. E. Collins,
Warwick (Q.), while the crop
section went to Lyndley
Herefords.
Cattle shown by the Sparkes
family won 20 ribbons and made
top price—£Bo—at auction for
the champion bullock, which,
incidentally, was by Lyndley
Solomon (P), sire of the
champion Poll Hereford bull.
Reserve champion bullock and
champion pen of bullocks were
Herefords exhibited by F. W.
von Pein, Pittsworth (Q.), one
of the few graziers in Australia
with -a drought-proof property.
Three-feet below the surface
there is water which grows
lucerne and oats to perfection,
so that this unique property
makes mo rtf money in a dry year
than in a wet one.
Yeoman.
/
Malathion
“Paramala”; Parathion, one
of the newer organic phosphate-
insecticides, has a wide range of
use and effectiveness, and has
also moderate residual qualities.
It has, however, some toxicity
for hiiman beings, and caution is
required in its use —a respirator,
protective clothing and other
safety measures.
Also, a period of a few weeks
is generally recommended as a
safety-term before sprayed
vegetables and fruits are eaten —
in fact, the South African
Department of Agriculture
emphasises that parathion should
not be used at all on tomatoes.
A similar chemical, malathion,
is now stated to be quite as
effective as parathion, and with-
out its toxicity to warm-blooded
animals, Malathion has now
been accepted by the United
States Department of Agriculture
for fly-control inside dairy
barns, and is described as “one
of the safest insecticides to
handle.” Flies which have
developed resistance to D.D.T.
and other insecticides are readily
susceptible to malathion.
The Cattle-pup
“Billabong”: First, get hold
of a good pup. You may have
to go outside your own district
to get one, these degenerate
days, particularly if your dis-
trict isn’t really cattle country.
But whether you run half a
dozen bullocks or 500 a good dog
can be useful. Ever try cutting-
out a couple of head from a mob
in dry thistles on a thin-
skinned horse? Or separating
a bull from his harem single-
handed?
Most prejudice against cattle-
dogs is based on the fact that
many of them aren’t kept under
proper control. Then, too, some
men have half-bred barkers that
are more nuisance than they are
worth. So, if you want a good
dog get a good pup. Prices for
the best in Australia are moder-
ate compared with prices for
fancy breeds.
Feed the pup yourself, and
don’t let anyone else do the job.
Your main trouble, for a start,
will be to stop the kids playing
with it. Cattle-pups are lovable
bundles of activity, but you’ll
have to be stern. If necessary,
beat the kids. This will impress
the pup. Make sure the kennel
is warm, well-drained, etc., feed
well and, after the puppy-fat
melts a bit, keep chained-up. But
make sure the pup has plenty of
exercise each day. A running-
chain on a clothes-line helps the
pup get exercise, but make a
habit of letting the pup off the
chain every day—do this your-
self —and stand around while it
races up and down. The cool of
the evening is a good time. But
don’t let the pup near the cows
or calves. A cow will wheel
round on him and he’ll probably
bark.
Everyday—or as often as pos-
sible-take the pup for a walk
around the paddock. Teach it
to come behind when called or
whistled, and also to come be-
hind at a motion of the hand.
Also teach it to sit instantly, at
a command and a downward
motion of the hand.
When the pup is old enough
take it out in front of the saddle
to a mob of quiet bullocks. Start
the bullocks moving— not too
fast —and then drop the pup.
Check any tendency it has to
bark, then leave it alone. It’ll
start to heel naturally; when it
heels, call it behind. Keep the
bullocks moving in this manner
along some direction they are
likely to take, anyway—towards
a creek, for instance—for about
half an hour. Same thing every
day for a week. Don’t let the
other dogs come on these excur-
sions.
Next week let the pup go
round the wings. Main thing is
to keep the pup under control.
If a beast breaks, call the pup
off. Time enough for that later.
A couple of weeks of this and
you may have a small mob to
take some distance. Take the
pup along—without any other
dog. Provided he doesn’t bark,
is controllable, and is reasonably
intelligent, he’ll learn quickly.
Be firm and patient and you’ll
have a good dog. The shouting,
swearing, stick-throwing man
never has a good dog and
doesn’t deserve one.
Crosscuts
U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture reports that 12 new hybrid
ontons are ready for the U.S.
market, and before long will be
available for foreign buyers.
♦ ♦ •
“Stromlo”: Nylon knitted
piece-goods and women’s nylon
knitted underwear and stockings,
exported from U.K. last year,
touched a total of more than
£6i million sterling, apart from
goods sent through parcel-post.
The export of nylon knitted
piece-goods has continued to
expand substantially in recent
years, mostly for knitted under-
wear. Newer types of synthetic
fibres, including terylene, will
influence growth of British
export trade in textiles in the
future. All of which is food for
thought for the woolgrower.
« * *
At Brisbane, A. D. Allans,on,
senior dairy-produce inspector
of the Commonwealth Depart-
ment of Commerce and Agricul-
ture, in an address to an annual
convention of dairy-factory
managers and secretaries, re-
marked that there had been
“little if any” improvement in
the manufacture of butter since
last year; and that many con-
sumers were suspicious that
inferior butter, or margarine, had
been mixed with good-quality
butter.


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage I*
absorbed Into the soiL
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS t" ""*
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00.
(N.S.W.). 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Saunders House, 116
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd.. 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
eolvenator 00. (S.A.), C.M.L. Build*
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT Hi!
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
i No Pads—
No Springs
Ehe NEO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Ton will at once, without effort and
In all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BAKREKE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3v), 243 Elizabeth St., 'Sydney
fds
‘Phenovis’ Brand of Phenothiazine.
THANKS FOR WAITING
Mr. GRAZIER!
*
ASPR
vs
mm®
fas*
WMzgmm
lei
Increased Production has caught up
with the great demand
Pldce your order now for immediate
delivery of
THE NEW,me TAKT/CU
LIQUID ‘PHENOVIS’
The Most Efficient Drench for
Worms in Sheep.
Another proven product of
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
ICI
Mechanisation
Mechanisation on the
land has many aspects.
The Commonwealth Bureau of
Agricultural Economics has
covered one aspect —mechanisa-
tion on wheatfarms —in a sur-
vey, the chief facts and conclu-
sions being published in the
“Quarterly Review of Agricul-
tural Economics.”
It is common knowledge that
there was a shortage of tractors,
headers and the like a few years
back, and that the situation has
since changed. What was lack-
ing was detailed information
which, perhaps, has a relevance
of some national significance.
As suggested on this page re-
cently, the ability of the Aus-
tralian wheatfarmer to weather
an economic storm is bound up
with what he pays, and is likely
to pay, for his machinery. Simi-
larly, costs, of which machinery,
both in capital value and main-
tenance, form a significant part,
not only determine what the
farmer gets for his work but also
what the consumer pays for it.
The price of wheat, in Australia
alone, influences many other pro-
ducts ; as, for instance, pig-
meats.
These causes and effects are
beyond the scope of the survey.
Skipping the detailed analyses,
which have a definite value, the
general conclusions provide food
for thought. They are:
1. Since 1949-50 there has been
a substantial increase in the
value of machinery on farms.
2, The increase is only partly
because of increases in prices of
machines over the period. There
have been considerable changes
in the numbers of some
machines, and in the type and
age of machines in use.
3. In association with the
trend towards increased stock-
raising in agricultural areas,
there has been a significant
increase in the volume of
machinery employed for pasture
and fodder-crop production.
Shearing - plant has also in-
creased.
4. Changes in fodder-conser-
vation practices are reflected in
the decline in numbers of
reapers, binders and stationary
hay-presses, and the large in-
crease in numbers of mowers
and pick-up balers.
5. Changing methods of cul-
tivation are indicated by the
increased numbers of scarifiers
relative to ploughs for initial
cultivation. The increase in
crop-spraying equipment is also
significant.
6. The greatest increase in
machine numbers has been in
tractors, but the rate of increase
has not been as high in the last
two years as in the previous two
years. On many farms old trac-
tors are being retained as a
second unit.
7. An increase in the size of
tractors has occurred* particu-
larly in Western Australia,
where these units are being used
for land-clearing and water-
improvement, as well as for
wheatgrowing.
8. The number of farm motor-
trucks has increased consider-
ably, and there has been a big
decline in the average age of
units —old units having largely
been discarded.
9. The position regarding
grain-headers and -harvesters
has not changed materially as
far as numbers or age are con-
cerned. This reflects the limited
availability of these machines
over the period (1950-51 to
1952-53).
10. The survey discloses a
general reduction in the average
age of implements on the farm.
Repairing Tanks
“Old Reader”: That article
on reconditioning old tanks re-
minds me that anyone with
plenty of separated-milk .can
turn it to good account.
About 20 years ago I saw an
old tank on a neighbor’s scrap-
heap and asked him what he
was going to do with it. He
said I could have it, so I took
it home, fixed it on a good
stand to catch the rainwater
from my motor-shed and put
about fin, of concrete in the
bottom (three parts of creek-
sand to one of cement), let this
set, then painted the tank inside
and out with a thick paint of
cement and separated-milk, put
on with a whitewash-brush.
Not more than can be put on
in a quarter of an hour should
be mixed at once, as it quickly
thickens. , If it gets too thick
add a little more milk, but not
too much; it mustn’t be too
thin.
Be sure there is no butterfat
in the milk. Best to let it settle
for 24 hours, then skim it for
the pigs, just to make sure.
The tank is still there, but
could dp with another coat. It
will have to get it one day when
I get time, and think of it. New
tanks treated in this way, after
the shine of the new iron has
weathered off, are just about
everlasting.
"Soil Doubts"
“Ornithos”: Here’s a straight
answer \to “Bull-oak’s” ques-
tions (B. 4/8/’54). For orchards
it is safe to go on using ferti-
lisers and trace-elements,, if re-
quired, provided the surface of
the ' soil is left undisturbed.
except for actual planting of the
trees.
Weeds and grasses should be
mown and left to form a per-
manent mulch. A hardy legume
like Crotalaria goreensis
(Gambia pea), inoculated and
broadcast before mowing, will
help greatly. The reason for not
cultivating lies in the fact that
a substantial part of the organic
matter in the soil comprises
carbon-compounds, taken from
the air and fixed by plants. If
these compounds are exposed to
the drying action of sun and
wind they will break down and
return to the air as gases.
Fertilisers and trace-elements
should be used when analysis
shows that they are needed. In
heavy soils fertilisers may never
be needed, but in light, sandy
soil where the movement of soil-
moisture is more rapid, regular
applications may be required.
Keeping Bees
“B-herd”: Plant to produce
honey for the home needn’t be
elaborate. But don’t use a
banana-case or butter-box to
hive the swarm. Usually the
bees remain unmolested in such
housing because, to the beginner,
separating the honey from the
bees offers a hazardous, often
insoluble problem.
Find an apiarist who will out-
fit a hive for you. Don’t run
away with the idea that bee-
timber is just lumber, though,
for the complete bee-box will
cost, secondhand, about £2. This
includes nine frames fitted with
foundation-wax. Go to the
swarm, take a few frames out of
the box and gently dislodge the
cluster into the hive-box. Re-
place the lid-cover and let the
bees settle down. When most
of them are in the box pick it
up and set it on the desired site.
A spot that is a little out of the
way, sunny, but not too exposed
to the sun in summer, is the best.
In about a month light a
smoker (this is as important a
tool to the bee-herder as was the
old-time bullock-whip to the
bullocky) and gently prise off
the cover. A puff of smoke at
the entrance and over the frames
is enough to ensure a wide
margin of safety in this first
operation.
When the times are good for
the bees the prospective honey-
man will find his frames full to
the top-bar with honey and
young brood. If left for a while
longer in this prosperous state/
the bees will soon become over-
crowded and hang in clusters
about the entrance. This is an
important time, for it reveals to
the beginner that his bees are
now strong enough to begin
really working for him. By this
stage, too, he has already ac-
quired another super of founda-
tion and frames, or he has
knocked one up from a decent
packing-case (conforming pre-
cisely to the measurements of a
factory-built one) and fitted it
with the necessary frames and
wax. When the bees hang out,
this super is given them, and
they commence filling it.
In another month the new
owner of bees can shake the bees
from the filled frames and
thoroughly enjoy his first home-
grown jar of honey. Later a
small extractor can be bought,
thus avoiding the inconvenient
task of straining the wax off the
first crop of honey. Growing
your own honey, when times are
good for the bees, is as simple
as that. And when times are
bad, let them sit. You’ll find
them still inexpensive and good
to keep.
Farm Hints
“William”: Keeping tractors
in top operating condition means
thousands of gallons of fuel
saved each year. Proper car-
burettor adjustment is one of the
most important of fuel-savers,
but other contributing factors
are: spark-plugs of the proper
heat-range ; clear air-filter unit;
radiator shutters and radiator
thermostat working efficiently to
make the motor work at an
economic temperature ; good oil-
filter elements ; keeping clean oil
on the valve mechanism; timely
changing of gear oil with correct
grade and weight.
“Ann”: Don’t wash out the
body-cavity of a fowl after draw-
ing out the intestines unless these
are broken. Water hastens de-
composition.
“E.S.”: Egg-eating fowls can
cause considerable damage, as
other chooks are prone to follow
their example. Often difficult to
detect the offenders. A simple
method is to put several eggs
on the ground in the fowlyard.
All fowls except the egg-eaters
will ignore them; latter will
immediately break the shells.
There is only one certain cure —
isolate the culprits and kill
them.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
A test was proposed for the existence of the Uranian
Cycle, in there being rain from lllh to 15th at the Brisbane
Show. The rain began on 11th but was more intense than
anticipated and didn’t last until the 15th. But this was near
enough to satisfy most people, and indicates that this cycle
is still active. If so, the general rains of October should be
better, and should be followed by good November rain; the
state of the October rains compared with th'ose of 1883 will
show to what extent.


Tfiegre back | 'Radio's greatest singing
team harmonize gour favorite songs in...
>2o<tCmlw
w •"Taos
S
S
•
V.
W6\
w
PRESENTED BY MALGIC ADRENALIN CREAM ON
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2CA 2LF 2PK 3CV 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
-3m MACQUARIE I -
nas mi
SERV I C E
The incomparable Big
Four sing the gayest
hit tunes of the 20th
Century, accompanied
by Wilbur Kentwell
at the fiiano and Ham-
mond organ and with
Keith Eadie as com-
pere in “20th Century
Hit Parade” the
brightest musical
quarter-hour on the
air.
Between
.... t - f.f, -I r
Ourselves
I
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON a
OSUIJJVAK
'lens
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
wttn OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
and Monday broke grey and
unsettled with a threat of further
rain.
I was late getting down with
my first load, and when I pulled
up at the lift I suddenly knew
that the trouble I feared was on
its way.
Three or four other lorries,
were there, including Hedrik’s,
and the drivers were grouped
together in an interested bunch
and no work was being done.
Hedrik and Ritchie were talking
"My goodness —I feel seedy this morning !”
to each other, and I could tell
from their attitude that what
they were saying wasn’t too
polite.
As I joined the group Ritchie
said, hotly: “Never mind me
’orse, Norman. It ain’t me ’orse’s
fault if it rains. Whadder yer
mean bringin’ in a load like that?
Yer know the track’s so wet and
greasy the ’orse can’t ’ardly stand
up on it and yer go and do a
stupid, lousy thing like that.”
I took a look at Hedrik’s load.
He had it in one sling and there
must have been the best part of
three tons on it. A good lift at
any time: far too much with
conditions as they were.
“I’ve a flamin’ good mind to
make yer load it by ’and,”
Ritchie continued. “Teach yer
a bit of sense.”
“Like hell you will,” retorted
Hedrik bluntly. “When you take
on a job like this you should
have horses that can do the
work.”
“My ’orses’ll do the job,
Norman. I’ve always ’ad good
’orses and nobody can say
different.”
“Then why the devil don’t you
lift my load?” The query came
pat. “I say it’s because your
horse isn’t any good and you’re
not game to try.”
It was a shrewd challenge and
it touched Ritchie’s pride. I saw
the flare of anger in his eyes, and
for a moment I thought anything
might happen. Then abruptly
he said: “Hook up that load,”
and turned sharply away.
I touched him on the arm and
said quietly: “Don’t do anything
silly, Ritchie. I’ll back you up
on this.”
“She’s jake,” he answered,
shortly. “I’ll get you to work
the brake. Only watch out for
it. It’s- real crook today. Must
be some mud and grit got under
the band, I think. I’ll show the
cow.”
He walked to the horse and
spoke to it quietly. It stood up
into the pull and fidgeted
nervously, hoofs slopping on
muddy ground.
Someone called out: “Ready
when you are, Ritchie.” I
dropped the clutch and waited.
r T'O the casual observer I don’t
1 suppose there would be any-
thing unusual about that scene.
Just a horse winding up a bundle
of cane with a few men casually
watching.
But it wasn’t like that at all.
Ritchie spoke again to the
horse, and laid a hand on the
lead-rope. The horse moved and
the slack started to wind in.
Slowly the strain came on:
quietly, patiently, Ritchie took
the horse around the track.
Never raising his voice;
quietly soothing it and urging it
on until the bundle rolled up
tight in the slings. Then a sudden
sharpening of his tone; an
added urge in his voice and the
bundle was off the deck of the
truck and going up. I watched
with bated breath and hands
tensed on the brake-screw.
Clear of the stanchions; and
still up went the bundle. The
boom started to swing and the
bundle moved towards the rail-
wagon.
“Hold it,” ordered Ritchie,
sharply, and I whirled the brake
hard down.
“Lift the clutch,” said Ritchie.
I jerked the handle forward and
turned to Hedrik.
“Get in the wagon and take
that bundle,” I snapped. “And
shake it up. We can’t waste all
day on you.”
We were all watching him, and
right then he knew we were all
on Ritchie’s side.
Casually, almost defiantly, he
moved to the wagon. Too
casually. One foot on the
buffer; one leg thrown over the
end of the wagon; body bent
forward. Three tons of cane
swinging towards him, not two
feet above his bent figure.
“Mind out for the bundle,” I
shouted. “Don’t stand under it,
you dope!”
He hesitated and glanced
upward, startled. He tried to
drag himself clear —and in that
second of carelessness the brake
slipped.
We heard the grinding jar as
the drum wrenched against the
band, and three tons of cane
dragged the steel rope through
the pulleys. It caught Hedrik’s
leg across the edge of the wagon
and forced him forward and
down.
“Look out! ” someone
shouted, and I wrenched at the
brake-handle.
Too late. Hedrik cried out
once in an agonised voice, and
blood started to trickle down the
side of the wagon. I still stood
there straining stupidly at the
brake.
T}IRMLY, Ritchie put his hand
on my shoulder and pushed
me out of the way.
“Give me a go,” he £aid,
quietly, and dropped the clutch
“Stand up a bit,H he ordered,
and the horse moved into the
pull.
< Carefully, Ritchie slackened
the brake: slackened it until the
bundle of cane settled and
spread.
“Giddap!” Ritchie’s voice was
a whipcrack. “Lay into it, you
beauty.”
There was nothing that any of
us could do, except Ritchie, and
I don’t think anyone could have
done what he did. Everything
he had ever learned about horses
went into that effort and the
horse responded.
It slipped and stumbled on
the slushy track. It was down
for a hopeless moment on its
knees, and up again scrabbling
for a foothold, Ritchie lifting it
with sheer willpower. Lifting it,
and driving and forcing it to pull.
Step by slippery, uncertain
step he made the horse do as he
wanted. Inch by slow inch thej
bundle came up. It gathered
together and straightened in the
slings. It swung crazily on the
edge of the wagon and scraped
free, and with a scrambling rush
we were into the wagon dragging
Hedrik clear.
In the background I caught a
glimpse of Ritchie calmly screw-
ing down the brake and dropping
the clutch.
Y\fE got Hedrik across to the
tent and did what we could
for him, but his leg was in a
shocking mess, and I’m glad he
remained unconscious until the
ambulance arrived.
We got word to his wife and
she came straight down. Of
course, we had to tell her what
had happened, but we pruned it
down to make it sound as
pleasant as possible.
“ ’E was a bit lucky,” Ritchie
conceded. “Just as well I ’ad a
good ’orse to lift that bundle.”
I looked him in the eye. “He’s
not a good horse, Ritchie,” I told
him. “He might be made into
one in time, but he isn’t one yet.
The only thing that saved
Hedrik was the fact that you are
such a damn’ good man with
horses.”
There was a general chorus of
agreement.
ever foaled could win four races
in a row, to say nothing of five,
they had accepted huge bets from
him on the last two races. Now
they had to hand over thousands
of pounds.
Three paid out in a sulky
silence, but the man who had
called Redford “a real sport”
earlier in the day lost his temper.
“If you’re any sort of a man,
you’ll settle this with your fists,”
he challenged.
“I wouldn’t soil my hands on
a fellow who can’t lose like a
gentleman,” Redford retorted.
“But I’ll give you a chance to
win something back. I’ll match
my cook against you for fifty
pounds.”
The bookie took a look at the
skinny, shambling cook and
accepted the challenge, only to
find himself inside an improvised
ring with a man of the Bob Fitz-
simmons type. The bookie was
knocked out in the second round
—and Redford collected yet
another wager. Then he faced
the crowd.
“Just in case you think I’m not
game to enter a ring, gentleman,”
he said, “I’ll back myself against
any man present for another fifty
pounds.”
There were no takers.
At sunset the stewards went to
Redford’s camp. “We have a
few questions to ask,” said the
chairman. “For a start, we don’t
believe that your mare is a
brumby.”
“I made no such claim,” Red-
ford replied, producing some
papers. “See here. Two years
ago I bought her at the sales in
Sydney. She’s registered in
Queensland under the name of
The Brumby Filly. I’m not re-
sponsible for what anyone
chooses to think. You had a
horse running here today named
The Dolphin. Does that make
him a fish?”
It dawned on the stewards that
Redford had brought off his
coup without breaking any of
the rules. Later, it was learned
that he had planned it all in a
masterly way. The lad who had
ridden the filly was a Sydney
jockey. The cook had been a
professional boxer. Redford had
trained the filly himself and her
performances had shown him
that she stood a good chance of
beating anything likely to run
against her at a picnic meeting...
Perhaps it should be added
that this is fact. It is compiled
from two sources: My father,
the late George Lindsay, who was
in Western Queensland and
thereabouts at the time ; and the
late William Oliffe, who was
present at that Tennant Creek
race-meeting and who later
managed Blanchewater station.


lAr Britain s leading adventure writer
Hammond Innes
STRANGE LAND. “He has surely now no rival in the
field as a writer of entirely credible adventure stories in a style
that makes no concessions at all to the sensational. The narrator
in The Strange Land is an acquaintance every reader for pleasure
should make without delay.” — DANIEL GEORGE.
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
BOOK OF THE YEAR" AWARDS
AUSTRALIAN LEGENDARY TALES
By K. Langloh Parker, selected
by H. Drake-Brockmau.
This beautifully presented book was
selected as the Best Children’s Book
of the Year. A collection of imagi-
native and poetic aboriginal legends,
it is beautifully illustrated.
25/- (post 9d.)
FIGHTING SHIPS OF AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
By Frank Norton.
An invaluable mine of up-to-date
information about the navies of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. The draw-
ings combine realism with imagina-
tion. Commended by the judges.
15/- (post 7d.)
Write, *phone or call in for these, or any other books for children , t 0,..
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney : : 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
him from his love, who had become the
desire of the Lord Chancellor, read an
angry poem during his last performance,
causing a considerable stir ; his girl, acting
in a play written by the Empress herself,
interrupted her performance to fall on
her knees and plead with the Empress:
“Secret intrigues have suddenly come to
light separating me from my fiance, in spite
of all my struggles. I realised all too late
that people were determined to torture my
heart and take advantage of my inexperi-
ence”. ...
Moreover, it worked; “The Empress
at once gave the order for the marriage
of the two lovers.”
Paul J, who succeeded Catherine, liked
ballet, but not liking to see men dancing
preferred that they should march past in
military step ; then he set out to dismiss
the men and replace them with women,
a matter naturally displeasing to Mr.
Lifar:
Luckily, for ballet at any rate, Paul’s reign
was short.
,®- l } ss^a s f* rs t great ballet-master was
Didelot, of French blood, born in Sweden,
the favorite pupil of Vestris of Paris;
from 1802 to 1831 he taught and created
ballets; ~
Didelot was an extraordinary sight when
ne watched the dancers on the stage from
the wings. He minced and smiled, per-
formed little steps where he stood, then
suddenly lost his temper and beat his foot
violently on the ground. When the dancers
were children he shook his fist at them,
and woe betide them if they ever made
mistakes m forming groups. He pounced
on them like a vulture, caught them by one
ear S r . ky the hair, and when they
struggled, he gave them a generous dose of
kicks which made them vanish as quickly
as they could. Even the soloists were some-
tunes punished. Under a burst of applause
the dancer would withdraw into the wings.
Didelot was watching for her there, he
grabbed her by the shoulders, shook her
like a plum-tree, showered her with insults
and with a thump on the back shoved her
back on the stage to take another bow.
Often he could be seen running in the wings
after some victim who thought to escape
him. When he was in a real temper it took
■a shower of water to bring him back to
his senses.
In 1837 Taglioni arrived, the greatest,
evidently, except Pavlova; audiences
went into frenzies over her. But at 33
she “had lost her feminine charm”; and
there is a disgraceful story that shows
how little little brats have changed:
By daylight Taglioni was very ugly; all
wasted away, with a small yellow face
covered in wrinkles.... The pupils crowded
round her after she had finished dancing
and said with tender expressions: “How
ghastly you look, you’re all covered in
wrinkles.” Thinking that it was a compli-
ment, Taglioni replied with a charming
smile: “Thank you, children, thank you.”
Strangely enough, her appearance coin-
cided with some ten years of “decadence”
m Russian ballet, which means to a
choreographer like Lifar a sparsity of
new creations, that ended with the arrival
of Marius Petipa, who was the main force
in it for the next 57 years, from 1847 to
1904. Perrot, the acrobatic dancer, who
was so ugly that he was advised always
to dance swiftly so that the audience
might not get time to see. his face, danced
and invented ballets between 1848 and
1857. Saint-Leon, a smoothie, ensured
his engagements as ballet-maker by
hooking himself to a star.
Ballet-music had up to then been
written by retainers like Pugni and
Minkus. A new policy of doing without
official composers forced Petipa to deal
with Tschaikowsky:
Great music was heard for the first time
at a ballet performance on January 3, 1890,
for the creation of the Tschaikowsky-Petipa
ballet “The Sleeping Beauty.”
And Mr. Lifar shows us. how close this
collaboration was, in several extract
from Petipa’s instructions, which set ou
not only the emotion required but th
time-signatures:
No. 14. Suddenly Aurora catches sight
of the old woman who plays with her
knitting-needles, in 2/4 time. Gradually
this turns into a highly tuneful waltz in 3/4
time. Suddenly, a pause. She says noth-
ing. Then pain. Cries. Blood flows (eight
strong beats in 4/4 time)....
Item by item, the great ballet-maste
put the great composer through his paces
and the result was that, of 45 perform
ances in the 1890-1 season, 21 were o;
“The Sleeping Beauty.” Petipa and
Tschaikowsky worked together again on
“The Nutcracker”; then Petipa, falling
ill, had to leave its choreography to his
aide, Ivanov. Its first performance was
in December, 1892. Tschaikowsky diec
the following year, and Petipa dug up
the score of “Swan Lake,” which, written
by Tschaikowsky without Petipa to guide
him, had been a failure in Moscow in
1877, and,
against his usual principles [Petipa] decided
to arrange his choreography to music
already written, and to pay particular atten-
tion to the music’s individuality.
It seems that this ballet, “one of the
truest pearls of all Russian ballet,” was
composed in sections, partly by Petipa,
partly by Ivanov; the second act, with
choreography by Ivanov, being presented
in 1894, and the complete ballet not until
1895.
And so, still making enormous but
not very graceful leaps of Mr. Lifar’s
brilliant choreography, we come to the
new century, and the emergence of the
new and true Russian ballet, derived by
the choreographer Fokine from a study
of the principles of the American dancer
Isadora Duncan, and, to a less extent,
the Swiss Jacques Dalcroze; nor, says
Mr. Lifar, must we ignore the influence
of the painters and designers, Bakst,
Benois, etc.; and here, perhaps, is as
good a place as any to leave this excellent
history to the curious reader.
Reviewed Briefly
Contango Day: Barbara Jefferis
(Dent). This first novel by a young Aus-
tralian woman shared first-prize in one
of the “Sydney Morning Herald’s” novel
competitions. Contango Day is a short,
excellently constructed book in which
suspense and tension become almost un-
bearable as the author peels off layer
after layer to reveal the true inwardness
of the central character, a fiftyish spin-
ster named Miss Doxy, Miss Doxy,
while appearing to everyone who knows
her as a perfectly ordinary if at times
irritating fusspot, is revealed to be, in
fact, the victim of a highly logical system
of delusions of grandeur and persecu-
tion. The action is confined to one day
—her birthday—and by following her
thoughts and recollections the writer dis-
plays her entire history: the manner in
which her delusions arose, and the deep
and dreadful reasons why she needed to
retain and amplify them. This is by no
means a sordid psychological work in
the quasi-psychoanalytic manner—its
effect is gained by a ruthless and per-
fectly straightforward account of a
confused and unhappy life-story which,
moreover, gains in strength from a
certain amount of understatement.
♦ • ♦ *
Men Who Shaped the Future: Egon
Larsen (Phoenix). Up-to-date “stories
of invention and discovery” for boys;
Whitney’s cotton-gins; Morse’s tele-
graph ; Bessemer’s steel; Goodyear’s vul-
canised rubber; Howe's sewing-
machine; Kelvin’s cable; Sholes’s type-
writer; Nobel’s dynamite; penicillin;
Sikorsky’s helicopter; Ferguson’s tractor;
and a round-up chapter of steam-engines,
Murdock’s gas, the linotype, the saxo-
phone, the diesel engine, the vacuum-
cleaner (the first vacuum-cleaner sales-
man, Booth, the inventor, to call any-
where, called upon Queen Alexandra at
Buckingham Palace), the inventors of 3D
film ; and a postscript on Professor A.
M. Low, “Last of the Lone Inventors.”
With 44 plates.
* * * *
Mary Anne: Daphne du Maurier
(Angus and Robertson). The Du Maurier
store of interesting antecedents can still
offer some surprise-packets. The Mary
Anne of this novel was the author’s great-
great-grandmother—better remembered
as the notorious Mrs. Clarke whose
evidence, before the House of Commons,
against her royal lover, Frederick Duke
of York, precipitated an inquiry into
Army graft in 1805. Miss du Maurier
attributes to her ancestress mixed but
acceptable motives for her “life of
shame.” She was saddled with a wastrel
deserting husband, a spoilt and dependent
brother and several children of her own.
She was also poor. The really pertinent
question was how, in Georgian England,
she could have remained honest in face
of the opportunities that presented them-
selves. Mrs. Clarke’s final downfall was
caused by her enthusiasm for scurrilous
journalism, for which she had a talent
that might have stood her in better stead
in a later age. As the book stands her
history makes enjoyable romance with
all the delicate flavor of ancient scandal.
♦ * ♦ *
Shakspeare and the Classroom: A. K.
Hudson (Heinemann). With an intro-
duction by Bernard Miles. Sets out ways
by which teachers of children from small
to big can put Shakspeare over by making
the children act him in class, with
emphasis always on the dramatic side of
his genius, and the ways he gets his
effects (soon the world won’t be safe for
the ordinary uneducated dramatic critic.)
And, of course, children who can be
interested in the play in this manner
should quickly and without seeming effort
master the text. There are 14 pages of
recommended books of criticism, etc
with notes on them, a list of films, strip
and slides, and a list of Shakspear
recordings.
* * * *
The 111-tempered Clavichord: S. J
Perelman (Reinhardt). Twenty-three
more comic pieces by the New Yorke
Leacock ; he is not quite as funny a
Leacock used to be, but nor is Leacock
and the show must go on; and ill
tempered, or good-humored, there is
something to be gained from “Nirvana
Small by a Waterfall,” a play for Holly-
wood lovers in the Louella Parsons man-
ner ; “A Girl and a Boy Anthropoid Ape
Were Dancing,” a demonstration in judge’s
chambers by a night-club dancer charged
with dancing indecently with a gorilla ;
and a little dialogue between a star sales-
man and his manager, “Salesman, Spare
That Psyche,”
* * * *
Plays by Gordon Daviot: (Heinemann).
By, of course, the late Gordon Daviot,
authoress of “Richard of Bordeaux.”
There are two pleasant full-length
comedies in this collection: “The Pomp
of Mr. Pomfret” records the vengeance
enacted on a wealthy London tycoon by
a journalist, a Canadian millionaire and
two vaudeville conjurers all of whom
Mr. Pomfret had ordered from the table
he had booked at a restaurant. The girl
member of the vaudeville act gets a job
as housemaid with Pomfret, and makes it
seem he has thrown a vase at her; next,
as chauffeur, the man of the act contrives
further damage. “Cornelia” is a variation
on the “Pygmalion” theme; a rich Eng-
lishman decides to adopt the child of his
old University tutor who has gone to
pieces in Labrador. The girl turns out
to be self-possessed and beautiful, naive
but correct in observation ; and while her
ageing guardian and a young lord with
Communist sympathies are trying to get
off with her, it is obvious to the audience
that she is setting her cap at the butler.
There is a satire, “Patria,” and there are
three one-actefs, of which “The Pen of
My Aunt,” which shows a French lady-
of-quality and her maid saving a sus-
pected stranger from the Germans dur-
ing the recent occupation, is most
adroitly managed.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 292
Across
I—Lavish backing for us by a legis-
lator going to the outteck with
us. (9)
5—A place to bog down anyone who
is in the Parliament of South-West
Africa. (5)
7 Before 1 across is taking too
much for granted. (12)
8 — Is this only one Australian river
or 500? (3)
10 —This makes a musical worl twitch
an eye. (5)
12— This assent is to drop off. (3)
13— Perishing heart for an Indian sage.
(5)
14— The corporation’s data presum-
ably include this rouseabout. (8)
16-Facial spasm. (3)
18— Boy is coming back with the
negative alternative. (3)
19— This has to be game to pass a
dance. (8)
21 —Name women only. (5)
23 Babylonian god causes Christo-
pher to drop off the belfry. (3)
24 — Finland total includes nothing
plus one. (5)
25 Butcher's hook in heaven with a
nightcap? (3)
26 — Dicentrala between the Coroman-
del and the Carnatic. (7, 5)
27 — Gregory’s family kisses. (5)
28 — Recitation that makes an Aus-
tralian comedian timberless to
start with. (9)
Down
1 — Places for late meal assumptions.
(12)
2 A dumb gid from France. (6)
3 A fowl or the whistling of a bullet
weight. (9)
4 Fiord noise without a weakness
to probe. (5)
5 Give Standish a silencing bribe in
such areas. (6, 5)
6 It was among the Wise Men's
gifts to the infant Jesus. (5)
8— A bone can be found in an old
Italian tongue. (5)
9 Distinguished the edge of a record
in past eats. (12)
11 —Pipes see the unprofessional
executioners. (11)
15 —The instructor of every artificer in
brass and iron shipping Capone to
a murderer. (5-4)
17 —Wrinkled member of the A.B.C.’s
Village Glee Club is only 100
behind. (5)
20—Barker with the first prize toy to
follow the boss cocky. (3-3)
22 — Asiatic leopard weight. (5)
23 Black Sea port gives a degree to
a corporation. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 291


m
W-mki
m
i
m
m
mmm
.
njgg
-*- y '■>
1000 AND 1500 WATT MODEL
LIGHTING PLANTS . . .
Designed to bring modern living to the medium-
size home, and are suitable for installations
requiring from 20 lights (Type KB, Plant) to
30 lights (Types PB,BA, PB110).
The well-designed separate switch-
boards are supplied at no extra cost.
Push-button starter is mounted on
the switchboard. The plants are
powered by the efficient M.V.
Engine, which uses less than f pint
of fuel per brake horsepower hour.
The plants provide not only
strong, constant light in every
room, but also ample power for
the modern appliances every
housewife wants.
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Shearing
Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M. V. AGRICULTURAL NEW
This entire page U a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
August
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture.
1954
NEW ELECTRONIC ADVANCES
EVERY DAY SCIENCE TAKES ANOTHER GIANT STRIDE IN THE ADAPTATION OF ELECTRICITY
TO THE NEEDS OF MODERN LIVING AND INDUSTRIAL PROGRESS...
The “TRANSISTOR/’ a brand-new electronic marvel, is illustrated at left. This tiny mechanism promises
to revolutionise the Electronic Industry. Replacing valves entirely, the Transistor will enable radios as
small as a wrist-watch to become a reality. Pocket-size television sets and radio transmitters may also
one day be commonplace.
Already being used in Australia in Hearing Aids, the transistor reduces size and power-consumption.
This is just one of the technological developments which, in the long run, will be of great benefit to the
average man.
COUNTRY-DWELLERS SHARE IN BENEFITS OF
THE LATEST LABOUR-SAVING INVENTIONS
In N.S.W. about 36,800 Rural properties are now connected to
Bulk Electrical Power Supplies.
This is half the total number of
farms in the State. As time goes
on, more Power Lines will be
extended to Rural areas, bringing
the wonderful boon of electricity
to the Man-on-the-Land.
However, so many areas of the
Commonwealth are without this
advantage, and, because of
sparse population, and vast
distances, it will be many, many
years before even a proportion of
them are connected.
Fortunately, this does not mean
that they need go without the
comforts, conveniences, and
savings in manpower that elec-
tricity offers.
For, wherever the country-dweller
may live, he can purchase a small
light and power plant capable
of providing him with ample
power to fill his needs.
The modern Lighting Plants
manufactured and distributed by
Moffat-Virtue Ltd. have been
designed specifically for the Man-
on-the-Land. Tried, tested, and
improved over a number of years,
the range of Moffat-Virtue Plants
available provides the complete
answer to the lack of electric
power.
It is an amazing fact that, in a
specially conducted test-run of a
Moffat-Virtue type “KB” Home
Lighting Plant, under normal
operating conditions, it was found
that the unit-cost of power pro-
duced by the plant was actually
lower than the cost to the con-
sumer charged by some of the
large Bulk Power Suppliers.
This is possible because of the
efficiency of the well-known
Moffat-Virtue “V 3” Petrol
Engines which power Moffat-
Virtue Lighting Plants.
Electricity Performs Many Tasks
Electricity is the most hard-work-
ing, the most versatile power ever
harnessed by mankind. With the
advent, every year, of more elec-
trical appliances, the housewife’s
job is made infinitely lighter.
At the flick of a switch, Electricity
will operate your vacuum cleaner,
iron, floor polisher, lights, toaster,
shaver, food mixer, sewing
machine, electric jug, power tools
or radio.
Not only does it allow you to
enjoy all these amenities, but most
important, the astonishingly low
running cost more than justifies
the original outlay on a Lighting
Plant.
That is why more and more Rural
Homes have a Moffat-Virtue
Lighting Plant installed every
year. It will certainly be worth
your while to investigate its possi-
bilities immediately.
EXPERTS TEST LIGHTING-PLANTS
The careful, scientific testing and checking, combined with modern
manufacturing methods, which Moffat-Virtue engineers pursue right
through the process of manufacture, ensures that the plant you buy will
not only cost less but will operate efficiently and reliably throughout its
long life.
Precision Engineering and Scientific
Testing Mean Sound, Reliable Plants
Unless the parts of a machine are accurately made and assembled,
and the finished machine is thoroughly tested and adjusted prior
to leaving the factory, it cannot be expected to give the performance
which it was designed to give.
That is why Moffat-Virtue Pro-
ducts are invariably recommended
by owners to their friends. Moffat-
Virtue Ltd, has taken advantage
of their long years of experience
in the manufacture of machinery
for the Primary Producer to en-
sure that in design, ease of instal-
lation and maintenance, and in
efficient running, their products
are unsurpassed.
Moffat-Virtue’s policy has been
never to allow costs-of-production
to be cut at the expense of quality.
The competitive prices of Moffat-
Virtue Machinery lines are due to
efficient manufacturing methods
and sound design.
The easy terms on which a Moffat-
Virtue Lighting Plant can be pur-
chased, and the low operating cost
(only a few shillings weekly),
make owning one a wise invest-
ment in more comfortable living.
You can obtain further particulars,
together with details of Moffat-
Virtue’s low deposit, easy pay-
ment plan if required, from any
one of the list of State Distributors
listed at the foot of this page.
