

FLIGHT : FULL CIRCLE
THE
HOUSfe
advt
O F
SEPP E L T
PRODUCERS
O F
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75 —No. 3902
Wednesday, November 24, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
RISING FAST
Bay gelding by Alonzo—Faster. Five years
WINNER OF MELBOURNE CUP, 1954
OWNER:
L. R. SPRING
TRAINER:
IVAN TUCKER
JOCKEY:
J. PURTELL
WEIGHT: 9st. 5lb. TIME: 3min. 23sec.


french readers
Write today for details of new
monthly selection of French
books —another of our services
to Australasian booklovers.
THE WAKELYS
gQj 2656, Auckland, C.l, N»Z.
You’re looking for a book? BOOKHUNTER
will find it for you—any book from any-
where Quick service moderate charges
Write to BOOKHUNTER, 40 Mona Road,
Darling Point.
f*
31
The Ideal Gift
for your SON or GRANDSON
“ROBINSON CRUSOE”
A MAGNIFICENT CHRISTMAS PRESENT
Beautifully Printed and Brilliantly Illustrated
by one of Australia’s Leading Water Colourists.
Available at £2/2/- from your nearest Bookseller or from the Publishers
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty.Ltd. mueen st Brisbane
A few copies of a Leatherbound Limited Edition, Numbered and Signed, are available at £5/5/-
The Red Page
BERNARD O'DOWD
, as always been possible to admire
he poetry of Bernard O’Dowd as one
admires, say, a steamroller. It is a
ie^\ ar^a ffi e mechanical contraption,
f df Ver been able to go any
lurther than this in appreciation, one turns
]9 :v; et be Palmer’s Bernard O’Dowd
(Melbourne University Press) in the hope
that something more human may be dis-
covered ; and it may be said at once
~,at O Dowd, in small doses, quotes well.
Whoever wrote those six lines from “The
Bush”— and there were more (but how
many?) like it; and it was indubitably
Bernard O’Dowd—wrote some charming
poetry;
When, now, they say “The Bush,” I see
the top
Delicate amber leaflings of the gum
Flutter, or flocks of screaming green-leeks
dr °P
Snent, where in the shining morning hum
gleaming bees for honey-scented hours
Mid labyrinthine leaves and white gum-
flowers.
So, too, in the account of the poet’s
life which this book is chiefly concerned
to relate, are there glimpses of a person-
ality much more intense, more human
and more vivid, than the tenor of his
heavier poetry or what is generally
known of his life as a Parliamentary law-
draftsman and librarian in Melbourne
would lead one to expect. As well as the
student who was a headmaster at 17, the
serious-minded youth at Socialist gather-
ings and the personage Judge Wasley
encountered in later years in the Supreme
Court Library in Melbourne “working-
out a difficult problem in conic-sections”
there was the lean, lanky, auburn-haired
boy with the look of “smouldering
absorption” in his eyes who could plunge
out of his books to win a race at
athletics;
Once at Grenville when the winner of a
race in the under-16 section was announced
as “Mr. O’Dowd,” and a sober, extremely
tall youth blundered forward to claim the
trophy the audience burst into a roar of
laughter. Was this long streak who was
always wandering around with a copy of
Homer or in his pocket really
under 16? And was he willing to leave
his books long enough to win a race?
There is the picture of the boy and his
Irish father (Constable O’Dowd, from
Ulster) both discovered by the constable’s
wife lying under a tree reading books
when they were supposed to be cutting
wood in the paddock. There is his camp-
ing-trip down the Murray with other
young men, when they hollowed their
own canoe out of a redgum which,
immediately it took the water, sank.
There is his curious sentimental corre-
spondence with an unknown young lady
in the Ballarat “Courier” when they
wrote love-letters in verse to each other
—very dreadful the lady’s were; Mrs.
Palmer does not quote O’Dowd’s.
There were, though inadequately
described, his adventures at spiritualist
seances in Melbourne; and his “volcanic
eruptions” of temperament. There is the
portrait of him declaiming poetry or
politics on those apparently rare occa-
sions when the Irish in his blood really
took possession of him:
As they made their way up the long road
to the train a casual mention was made of
Peairse and Connolly who had been shot a
few weeks before for the part they played
in the Dublin rising. Immediately O’Dowd
stopped, his eyes darkening and a thunder-
cloud descending on his brow. It was as
if a nerve had been touched, the springs
of his feeling released. Careless of his hat
blown off by the wind and the manuscripts
slipping from under his lifted arm, he burst
forth into a flood of passionate invective
that did not cease even though the train
was whistling round the curve and his com-
panions were frantically urging him to
hurry since it was the last chance of reach-
ing town.
Such emotional outbursts were closely
connected with the poetic part of him.
When he recited poetry it seemed as if he
was, for the time being, possessed. His
voice took on the tones of incantation ;
his whole being vibrated to the rhythm ;
he could not help keeping time with his
hand or his foot to the stresses of the verse.
Usually he exerted a mesmeric power over
those who heard him and it was easy to
imagine him as a tribal bard standing on
some outcrop of rock and exciting his
fellows assembled in the hollow below with
the passion of his verse.
Mrs Palmer says elsewhere that this
newer of declamation was not altogether
to O’Dowd’s advantage as a poet,
enabling him to “smooth out an ugly
collection of consonants, make over-
packed lines melt into music” ; and that
seems likely enough. Roderic Quinn
similarly concealed from himself many a
banality in his verses by the deep, boom-
ing tone, as of some bittern or bunyip
in the marshes, in which he used to recite
them. He could make even the remark,
“It’s a nice day today,” sound as if it
had been written by Milton.
But, pleasing as these glimpses of
O’Dowd and his poetry are, it must be
said that they are no more than glimpses.
One is tempted but not finally persuaded
to plunge heroically once more into the
cogwheels of the Collected Poems; and
if O’Dowd’s personality—as may well
have been the case —was much more
humanly appealing than his poetry, it
emerges only fitfully in this book, which
is for the most part generalised, over-
decorous and dull.
Mrs. Palmer has apparently not been
able to give more than the briefest refer-
ence to what may well have been the
central event of O’Dowd’s life —“The crisis
....had to do with a personal relation-
ship ; and the acuteness of it passed
when the woman who had so profoundly
affected his inner life left the country
for a long period”—but even allowing
for this enormous omission one looks in
vain for any sustained vividness of por-
traiture. To some extent Mrs. Palmer
forestalls criticism on this count by
describing the book modestly as “a
coherent account of the poet’s origins” ;
but, valuable as that undoubtedly is, and
interesting as it is to have, for instance,
the stories of O’Dowd’s correspondence
with Walt Whitman, or of how he refused
a knighthood, it remains questionable
whether a biography that is not a
biography should not have been com-
pressed into a much shorter monograph.
No doubt one explanation of the
dullness of this book, as compared with
Nettie Palmer’s intensely sympathetic
study of Henry Handel Richardson or
her delightful privately-published
memoirs, is that the MS. was approved
by the poet during his lifetime; and
another may be that Mrs, Palmer did not
come freshly to it but rewrote and com-
pleted it from material assembled by
Victor Kennedy, who, up to the time
of his death in 1952, was writing a life
of O’Dowd on a grant from the Com-
monwealth Fund.
Melbourne Philharmonic
A Century of Harmony, by W. A.
Came, is the official history of the
centenary of the Royal Melbourne Phil-
harmonic Society. Considering that nine-
tenths of its achievement has been due to
voluntary effort, it is an inspiring record—-
there isn’t much done voluntarily for
public entertainment in Melbourne,
The first recorded effort in the way of
vocal and instrumental entertainment in
Melbourne is attributed to a Mrs. Clark,
described as one of the lights of the
Sydney stage, who, on December 23,
1839, treated the inhabitants of the
southern city to a 10s. soiree in the large
room of the Lamb Inn on a sick piano,
disordered in its strings—its weak notes,
however, were amply compensated for by
a Mr. Tickle who played a key-bugle with
much animation. The first public concert
was given in the Adelphi Hotel by
Monsieur and Madame Gautrot in 1840,
and in the next year the first musical
combination came into existence in the
shape of the Melbourne Harmonic, which,
however, fizzled out.
Two years later a Philharmonic Society
was started but was unsuccessful. It
wasn’t until 1853 that a letter from 20
amateurs to John Russell, Esq., a flour-
trader by profession but an accomplished
musician, begging him to be their con-
ductor, produced a favorable reply, and
the Melbourne Philharmonic was born.
One of the signatories to the letter was
David Mitchell, a leading builder and con-
tractor who later became Melba’s father.
The Philharmonic never looked back,
and by 1857, in the city of unpaved roads
and footpaths like quagmires, it was giving
six subscription concerts and three extra
concerts a year, and had already given
the first performance in Australia of
major works such as Mendelssohn’s
“Elijah.”
Since John Russell, who reigned for
seven years, it has had nine conductors,
concluding with Sir Bernard Heinze, who
easily holds the record with the extra-
ordinary figure of 163 concerts. The list
of guest-conductors includes Granville
Bantock, Sargent, Szell, Goossens and
Thomas Beecham, and the list of soloists
reads like a symposium of vocal and
instrumental talent—Madame Bishop,
Clara Butt, Dolores, Edward Goll,
Miranda, Kennerly Rumford, Sir Charles
Santley, Brownlee, Austral, Ada Crossley,
Amy Castles, Peter Dawson, Percy
Grainger, William Herbert and Harold
Williams. Strangely enough, Melba never
sang for the society her father helped to
establish.
There have been 28 first-performances
in Australia, and it was the society which
performed the colossal job of putting on
Coleridge-Taylor’s “The Death of Minne-
haha” at the Exhibition Building during
the centenary of Melbourne. Handel’s
“Messiah” is always the peak of the year’s
achievements, and it has been performed
no fewer than 134 times. It was also the
subject-matter of the society’s first sub-
scription concert at the Mechanics’
Institute, the programme for which bears
the footnote, “Carriages to set down with
the horses’ heads towards Russell-street,
and take up with the horses’ heads
towards Swanston-street.”
The silver thread that runs through the
society’s 100 years of music-making is,
of course, the choral singers. “Loyal and
arduous conditions are necessary to
become a first-class choral singer,” says
the history, and the society’s working year
begins on the last Tuesday night in
January and ends with the Christmas
concert. Weekly rehearsal continues
through the year with a break of one
night at Easter, and usually, immediately
before a concert, an extra rehearsal or
two is added. The present reviewer will
look with more respect than ever at the
white-robed ladies and the gents in dress-
clothes drawn up in serried ranks below
the Town Hall organ the next time he
goes to listen to the “Messiah.”
F. S.
Fantasy and Fact
It is humiliating to feel left out of a
human circle, even a literary circle, but
after some effort of reading, one can say
pretty definitely that one is not a member
of The Fellowship of the Ring, by J. R. R.
Tolkien (Allen and Unwin).
These 400-pages (big pages) of fantasy
constitute only the first volume of three;
the others are The Two Towers and The
Return of the King; presumably this
will make a work of some 1200 pages,
about the adventures of an elfin race
called “the hobbits.” Naomi Mitchison
says she takes it “as seriously as Malory” ;
Richard Hughes speaks of “the narrative
skill that carries the reader on,
enthralled, for page after page”; C. S.
Lewis says “If Ariosto rivalled it in
invention (in fact he does not) he would
still lack its heroic seriousness”; and
Richard Hughes, again, says hardly any-
thing has been attempted on this scale
since Spenser’s Faerie Queene.
Well, as to the Faerie Queene, Kenneth
Slessor is the only (credible) person one
has met who has read it completely
through—or was it Cecil Mann? Neither
of them would make such a statement
lightly; anyway, it proves that such a
thing is possible. And evidently it is
possible to read this The Lord of the
Rings (the title of the complete work)
right through, but not for the present
reviewer.
It begins with the party thrown by Mr.
Bilbo Baggins of Bag End to celebrate his
eleventy-first (111th) birthday; after this
party he is persuaded by the magician
Gandalf to give the magic ring to his
young cousin Frodo, who has just come
of age ( aet . 33). A horrible creature
called Gollum is after the ring, so Frodo
leaves the shire and the name of Baggins
and goes out into the Wild with the
faithful Sam; and then begin their
picaresque adventures, and they meet
people named Strider and Borabadil and
Elrond, Gimli, Legolas, Aragora,
Galdor . . .
The names, the sort of things one would
mumble as a kind of vocal doodling, are
a key to the pale and shadowy happenings
of the book, a dreamworld from whose
insubstantiality the reader awakes with at
least one new conviction: that the
essential of fantasy is solid fact. In
Alice in Wonderland, the White Rabbit,
the Mad Hatter, the Dormouse, the
Caterpillar and the Mock Turtle are
solid; the Gryphon is carved stone come
alive, and reinforced by illustration —
(“If you don’t know what a Gryphon is,
look at the picture.”) In The Magic
Pudding, the most visual of visuals
spends his first three pages in describing
in drawing and prose his two main
characters, Bunyip Bluegum and Uncle
Wattleberry; and thereafter the reality
of Sam the sailor, the self-replacing
Puddin’, and Wombat and the Possum,
the Puddin’-thieves, is forced upon the
reader with every resource of line and
verbal allusion.
Fantasists like Carroll and Lindsay use
the strangeness of their conceptions to
create personalities more memorable than
the real; the Mad Hatter is more
memorable than any hatter you ever
knew, and the Magic Pudding better
known to you than any pudding you ever
ate ; whereas the pale and unevocative
prose of Mr. Tolkien leaves his hobbits
no more than shadows of knightly adven-
tures and ancient legend. It is the same
with the verses and songs: the wit and
concision of the songs and recitations in
Alice and the roaring humor of the Magic
Pudding songs are almost beyond com-
parison with the smooth, uncharacterised
lyrics of The Fellowship of the Ring:
most of all it is in the introduction of his
lyrics that we feel the author trying, and
in a fantasist that is final.
Still, this does not seem to have been
felt by Miss Mitchison, Mr. Lewis or Mr.
Hughes ; maybe the book has a field of
erudite reference that escaped the present
reviewer.-
R.MCC.
A Melbourne Artist
The frontispiece of The Art of lan
Bow (Cheshire) is a picture of a bedroom
in pink and mauve, with an iron bed-
stead, a curving iron balcony and a view
of rooftops; upon which Mr. Clive
Turnbull, who contributes the letterpress,
comments:
On the third floor of M. Lampa cher’s
pension in Paris the artist lodged during
his stay. The baroque glory of old Paris
is jaded now ; yet the charm remains.
The early-morning stillness just before the
clamor of motor-horns announces that
Paris has come to life is amusingly broken
by the women over the way shaking the
crumbs onto unsuspecting passers-by.
Now, it is very difficult to represent the
clamor of motor-horns in a picture; and
if motors are indeed passing in the street
they are invisible. So, too, the picture
being focused far above their heads, are
any passers-by. And, though the woman
across the street indeed appears to be
decoratively shaking a tablecloth, there
is no legal evidence of crumbs.
Which shows how art-critics are liable
to go on, especially when hypnotised by
the magic of that very dingy and second-
rate metropolis, Paris; but which of
course does not detract from the value of
lan Bow's painting, which, even without
motor-horns, crumbs and passers-by (and
the Arc de Triomphe and the bus-loads
of American tourists at Montmartre, and
the asthmatic janitor wheezing up the
stairs at Le Grand Hotel de I’Univers et
Portugal) seems a lightly-pleasing picture
of a bedroom, recognisably Parisian by
its resemblance to the art of Dufy.
lan Bow is a Victorian painter, aged
39, with whose work the present reviewer
is unacquainted—though his admirable
criticism of last year’s Blake Prize in
“Meanjin Papers” remains in the mind.
There are three color-plates in his book —
the frontispiece; an abstract like any
other abstract; and a brilliant bit of
color in a flowerpiece—and a number of
black-and-white reproductions in a
variety of styles ranging from straight-
forward portraiture and landscapes to a
“fish-frying basket in flight” after the
manner of Klee, and Picasso’s scrambled-
egg heads. It is futile trying to assess
anybody’s work on reproductions, but at
least it is clear that this artist, though he
does not yet seem to have emerged to
any original statement, is experimenting
on a basis of genuine capacity.


Just arrived from HONGKO . smartly made
(UJ
■0
%
_l •
fgra
i_ v-* h
s r
U
77
£>
A
1
The slender black frames suggest a
lightness suited to modern furnishing
while the natural rattan gives new tex'
ture interest. Frames are unscrewed
for country orders.
ms.
m//
■m
mm£
/I
im
- '-1%;
v •
M §
:*ii
-,-
$i
mass
is*
'mMm.
m
ife
Above: Nest of Tables. 24in. x
21in. and 18in. diameters respectively.
The legs are rubber tipped. £ll/8/'.
This Rattan Furniture is
Available on
Easy Terms
Anthony Hordern’s offer you the
easiest terms in Sydney. See our
Credit Manager and have indh
vidual terms to suit your purse.
r
mm
•y.:
•W-
--;x •
ifcfei.
wmgipijim
mm.
mm
&&&?<*
:'■■>:■ tr
J.W !vJT \ <v
We’ve been waiting for
something special in tropical
Furniture. Here it is! It’s
cool, clean, comfortable and
contemporary in design ! Only
the Hongkong craftsmen
have the dexterity for weaving
rattan in such unusual
shapes . . . shapes that have
stability as well as eye appeal.
Above: Table and Chairs. Adaptable to your
dining room or patio . . . The table is 34in.
;q. and 27in. high. £lO/1/'. The chair has
a 20in. seat and is I7in. high. £6/7/6. The
streamlined wrought iron legs give firm support,
despite their apparent lightness. Buy them
together, apart.
Above: Rectangular Tea Table. 35in, x 18in.
x 18£in. Two levels. £7/7/6. Round Tea Table
is 19in. high and has 26in. diameter. £5/7/3.
Left : The Saucer Chair. A contemporary
design for those who like to be redly com-
fortable when they relax. It stays in the sun'
room or goes out to the patio. £ 7/5/'.
Above: Lounging Chair. Light, easy to move. 24in. wide, 36in.
high and 76in. long. You’re all set for relaxing with one
of these! £l3/11/6.
Write direct to
The
Contemporary Shop
This special shop features the latest in
interior design. Supervised by our
group of interior decorators, the
Contemporary Shop is a unique ser-
vice to homemakers who want to be
different from their neighbours.
HUM!
II I*
ţ
THE CONTEMPORARY SHOP IS ON THE THIRD FLOOR AT
ANTHONY HORDERNS’. ’PHONE; 80951. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Wednesday, November 24, 1954
Vol. 75— No. 3902
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. {-J. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD T OFFiCE: George Street. Sydney; Box 2521;
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.). Wellington.
STATE "LABOR" AND THE COLD WIND
kAST year, when over a period of many months
the Gallup-poll figures showed a continued trend
against the Menzies Government, “Labor” leaders
were gleefully telling each other and anyone else
who cared to listen that the Liberal-Country-party
coalition was living on borrowed time and was no
longer representative of the people. In surveys
which investigate intention rather than mere
opinion, Roy Morgan’s poll has been remarkably
accurate, and there is no reason to doubt the
accuracy of this indicator, especially as it is sup-
ported only too clearly by the results of the several
by-elections which were held in 1952 and 1953-
in all of which the Government lost ground, and in
one. Flinders, even lost the seat. “Labor’s” claim
that if an election had been held for'the Repre-
sentatives at the time of the Senate election in 1953
it would have resulted in a change of Government
will be conceded by most observers. However, the
election was not then due, and by the time voting-
day arrived on May 29, 1954, the Menzies-Fadden
stocks had recovered sufficiently for their parties to
retain control of the House, though with a smaller
majority.
Gallup-pollsters since then have revealed a
very different picture. The popularity of the
Government parties has continued to rise, and the
latest survey shows them holding a higher position
in public favor than at any time in the past 20 years,
with “Labor’s” stocks at a correspondingly low
level. The main factor in this change has been
the Government’s refusal to be rattled by its
temporary unpopularity and its determination to
stick to its policy in the face of the Opposition’s
calamity-crying and unemployment-talk which was
ultimately made to appear absurd in the light of
the increasing stability in the national economy.
On the negative side “Labor’s” lack of a policy, its
divided opinion on the means-test, the antics of its
leader and the Catholic Action boilover have
contributed.
These factors militating against “Labor’s”
popularity have not been confined to the Federal
sphere. They have spilt-over into State politics,
so that although five of the six States are at present
“Labor”-governed, it can be said of those Gov-
ernments, with as much validity as their supporters
said a year ago of the Menzies Government, that
they are no longer representative of the electors
and that they are living on borrowed time. There
is an element of poetic justice in their situation;
four of the five were returned to office at a time
when the Menzies Government’s popularity was at
its nadir, and they didn’t neglect to make the
utmost political capital out of that. They can
therefore scarcely complain if Dr. *Evatt, whose
help they were eager to accept in 1953, turns out
to be rather a weight on their backs at the present
moment.
The amount of time-loan permitted the State
“Labor” Governments is governed by the dates by
which they must face the electors; their fate
depends on the use they can make of the borrowed
time.
By the calendar, time runs out first for the
Cosgrove Government in Tasmania, the only one
of the five whose current lease goes back to before
the “recession” period. “Labor” has been in office
in Tasmania since 1934. Five-year Parliaments are
the rule, and they are chosen under the Hare-Clark
system of proportional-representation. The last
election was held on May 6,1950, and was—mainly
because of near-deadlocks caused by the system —
the third the Speck had had in three years. It, too,
resulted in a virtual deadlock—“ Labor,” 15;
Liberals, 14; Independent, I—but, the State being
fed-up with elections, the Parliament has managed
to function more-or-less smoothly for 4\ years,
despite the added complication of a Liberal-
controlled Legislative Council —a difficulty Cos-
grove shares with Premiers Cain and Hawke.
Cain, incidentally, is next on the list to face
the electors. His team swept victoriously into
office on December 6, 1952, winning 13 seats from
the disunited Victorian Opposition parties, to gain
a total voting-strength of 38 (including one Inde-
pendent “Labor” man) against an Opposition of
27 split into three unequal and unfriendly parties—
Liberal-Country party, 11; Country party, 12;
Hollway Liberals, 4. Since then there has been a
redistribution of electorates in Victoria on the basis
of two State Assembly seats for each Federal
electorate. This will almost certainly mean a
reduction in numbers for the Country party, with
corresponding gains for “Labor” and the assorted
Liberals. In the Council, Hollway’s two followers
hold the balance of power, and have so far kept
Cain in office, but if the three Opposition groups
should ever agree to forget their differences for
half an hour the date of the next Victorian election
might be advanced some months. This won’t
happen by Cain’s wish; his team is too much
involved in the Federal “Labor” squabble to be
seeking an. early election.
In Westralia “Labor” has had a slender
Assembly majority since February 14, 1953, with
26 members against a combined Liberal-Country
League and Country-party Opposition of 24. A
hostile Council has already rebuffed Premier
Hawke on questions of rent-control and wage-
adjustments, but is a trifle chastened by losses at
an Upper House election last May. As in Victoria,
it could force an election, but is unlikely tq do so
unless a sufficiently attractive issue presents itself.
Cahill’s Parliament was elected on the same
day as Hawke’s, but the resemblance ends there.
N. S. Wales “Labor” has a record majority—s 7
members, including two semi-independents against
a Liberal and Country-party. Opposition of 37.
Cahill’s record before and since the election neither
needs nor will bear recapitulation. Federal politics
were almost entirely responsible for his victory in
1953, and he and his colleagues are now feeling a
chilly wind on the back of their necks. Unlike his
fellows in the three States previously mentioned,
Cahill has nothing to fear from his Legislative
Council. Under the system of proportional-
representation invented by U.A.P. Premier Stevens
he is assured of control of that Chamber for several
years to come—unless his opponents carry out their
threat to remould it when they get the opportunity.
Queensland’s almost perpetual “Labor” Gov-
ernment, dating its present term from March 7,
1953, also increased its majority by using Federal
issues as a red-herring. This, coupled with a
judicious redrawing of electoral boundaries and a
refusal to fall into line with other States and part
with its cherished State rolls, gave it 52 seats
(including two Independent “Labor”) against a
combined Opposition of 23 at a time when Queens-
land’s Federal representation was three “Labor”
against 15 Liberal and Country-party members
(since changed to five and 13 respectively). Like
Cahill, Premier Gair has no Legislative Council
troubles ; he has no Legislative Council.
In South Australia, the only non-“ Labor”
State, Playford’s Liberal Country League was
returned on March 7, 1953, with 21 members to 14;
there are also four Independents, who vote with the
Government on most issues. The Council is also
strongly held by the Government. An attempt by
the “Labor” Opposition in South Australia to have
a redistribution of Assembly seats to give greater
representation to the city failed. Playford is about
to appoint a commission to report on a redrawing
of electoral boundaries, but apparently the present
disparity between metropolitan and country seats
will not be disturbed. The argument for
a differential basis of representation as between
city and country is probably more valid in South
Australia than in any other State, as the percentage
of population in the metropolitan area is the highest
in Australia. Conversely, it holds least weight in
Queensland, where many so-called rural electorates
are industrial mining pockets, where the interests
of the electors are more-or-less identical with those
of the city industrial areas. Thus the principle
which the Opposition complains is unfairly used to
keep “Labor” out of office in South Australia
operates in Queensland to keep “Labor” in office.
But irrespective of voting-systems and electoral
maps and rolls, “Labor” at present would prob-
ably willingly consign all public-opinion polls to
perdition. On the latest Gallup figures the party
could not at present win an election in any State,
and even the Senate, for which a one-vote-one-
value principle applies, would give a majority in
every State to the Government.
Time for Reform
THE leanest Federal session for years ended last
week, a month earlier than sessions usually end.
And members and the public are only too ready to
forget for a while Dr. Evatt and Mr. Eddie Ward
and their antics, their smearing of citizens, their
support of the Communists and their sectarian
fights.
Such sessions tend to bring Parliament into
disrepute and lead people of decent standards to
wonder where the public ethics of the country are
going when one member (who certainly would be
Prime Minister if “Labor” were returned to power
in the next Parliament) hobnobs in open court
and consults with Communists, and another, who
would undoubtedly be one of his principal
Ministers, flaunts openly and with pride a letter
somehow obtained from a company’s private files
as if he were proud of being its receiver.
But there is ground for deeper alarm about
Parliament in other matters than these; for every
year adds some new testimony to the weakness and
deficiencies of the Constitution and to the need for
wide reform. The Parliament itself becomes less
and less an efficient instrument of policy as Social-
ism intensifies, as it seems to do annually whatever
party is in power, the real government of the
country being the bureaucratic civil service, since
no Minister can hope to deal with the multiplicity
of detail now involved in administration.
And Parliamentary law in Australia provides
no relief for Ministers by allowing them to shift
their work on to the shoulders of deputies. The
under-secretary system is so doubtfully legal, along
with a hundred other matters connected with Parlia-
ment (such as pensions for members and payment
of Crown salaries to Whips and the Leader of the
Opposition) that it can be applied only furtively
and sparingly. Moreover, the party system is such
as to make the committee system, which is the basic
solvent of legislative difficulty in the House of Com-
mons, almost impossible in an Australian Parlia-
ment, where the Leaders of the Opposition
obviously are not to be trusted with secret matters
at the present stage of Parliamentary existence.
As constituted. Parliament as a whole is
inefficient and deficient in power, and some of its
elements are mere excrescences. The Senate in its
present form is a mere nuisance instead of a
legislative body. It acts merely as a time-wasting
propaganda-platform for opponents of the Gov-
ernment, and as a rubber-stamp for the House of
Representatives when its critics have had their say;
and it is elected in halves, a fact which makes itself
clear in its outlook of insecurity and doubt, and has
had a large influence in bringing it to the point at
which some members take more interest in the
debates of the Lower House than in developing its
own work and power. One of the most acidly
argued questions behind the scenes during the
current session has centred round the demands of
Senators for more seats in the galleries of the House
of Representatives so that they may spend more
time there.
The Senate is no longer a “States House.” It
is simply part and parcel of the party system of
government. It has become a rest-home for over-
paid party hacks, contributing, as a rule, a fraction
of the material out of which Cabinets are built. The
standard of its debates is generally deplorable. The
question is undoubtedly posed as to whether any-
thing can be done to restore the Senate to its proper
position as a House of review, or whether it should
be abolished altogether.
More legalistic problems are those which
surround the matter of Commonwealth powers, so
circumscribed by the reservations of jealous States
and the inexperience of statesmen who drafted the
Constitution Act. The continuous stream of litiga-
tion round Section 92 is sufficient in itself to
indicate the need for some declaratory reforms in
the Act to define Commonwealth powers and take
fetters off free movement of trade, with which
States are so prone to interfere. And the Petrov
Commission’s history has brought into the light of
day the shocking deficiencies in Commonwealth
authority which endanger the safety of the country
and interfere, perhaps sometimes entirely destroy,
the efficiency of Commonwealth instrumentalities.
It has become quite plain in the last three years
that the Commonwealth Parliament has no power
whatever to prevent a treasonable local agency of
a foreign Power settling-down in this country with
the objective of capturing its key unions and utilis-
ing them to break down the Australian system of
life and wreck the country’s defences. The Govern-
ment cannot hold a fully efficient inquiry, i except
with great difficulty, because it cannot empower any
tribunal outside the High Court or a specially
created court to apply penalties for contempt.
In time of peace it has only the flimsiest powers
to interfere with the sabotage of defence, and if it
wishes to have somebody prosecuted for treason it
must go cap-in-hand to some State Attorney-
General to act for it. It is possible in peace-time in
Australia to commit treason against a State which
is sovereign, but which has no responsibility for
the defence of the country, but not against the
Commonwealth, which is the defence authority.
Such a position, like a hundred other matters
—as, in fact, the very position of the States them-
selves which hold regions eager to secede and form
States of their own completely captive to the
industrial populations which are draining them
white —is utterly fantastic. The time was never
more ripe to explain its anomalies and dangers to
the electors, and to go to them with a scheme of
Constitutional reform. It should be done —or a
start should be made towards getting it done—
during the present Parliament.


“ABSOLUTELY FREE”!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Freedom for the Roads
The Privy Council decision that State
taxes and other “regulations” imposed on
inter-State road-transport operators are
invalid under the Commonwealth Con-
stitution brings to an end a long legal
controversy, a continuing injustice, and a
glaring anomaly.
Legal argument has, naturally, been
confined to judges and legal men; all
or most of it centring round Section 92,
which provides for free trade, commerce
and intercourse among the States, and
which, if it is examined without bias, is
clearly the keystone of the Australian
Federation.
Injustice is inherent in any State legis-
lation which imposes penal taxes and
restrictions on any lawful private indus-
try because it happens to compete with a
State instrumentality. Everybody knows
that State road-taxes and restrictions are
imposed to bolster-up State railways.
The anomaly is whereas private
inter-State sea- and air-transport is free
of State restrictions, inter-State road-
transport—at least until now—has
suffered financial and regulation tyranny
from the States, even to the extent of
seizure of vehicles.
In the case which has now put a stop
to what were, in actual and legal fact,
breaches of the Constitution by the States,
with the tacit as well as active consent
of the Commonwealth, the appellants
asked the Privy Council to upset a
majority decision of the High Court that
the N.S.W. Transport Act was not invalid.
The defendants apparently relied upon the
established precedent beginning with the
first transport case in 1933 and followed
in successive High Court judgments ever
since.
It has been held—and few would dis-
agree with it —that the first decision was
a wrong one, but in subsequent cases the
High Court found itself unable, in major-
ity verdicts, to go against the precedent
thus established —i.e., that a State was
justified in imposing taxes and restrictions
on inter-State road-traffic.
The Privy Council was asked not to
upset a decision which had stood since
1933, but their Lordships refused to
acquiesce, and they took the view that the
appeal offered a chance to end “a remark-
able conflict of legal opinion.”
It’s to be hoped that is the end of it.
The States will very probably be urged
by their Railway Ministers to seek some
other means of stopping private hauliers
from competing with their railways, but
it is hard to see how that can be done.
What the Railways Ministers should be
told is that the best way to corppete
with fast, fluid and comparatively cheap
road-transport is to provide fast, fluid and
comparatively cheap rail-transport.
Gambling and Commerce
v
While the N. S. Wales Government was
still pondering over the Privy Council
decision in the Hughes and Vale case,
and was setting its legal brains to work
in an effort to find some way of getting
around the verdict and so save for the
railways the million a year they stand to
lose through the disallowing of the road-
tax, a message came in from Hobart
which may Pause them more concern
than the loss of the tax. This was the
news that Arthur Drysdale, promoter of
the Tasmanian Lottery which replaced
Tatt.’s when Victorian Premier Cain
lured it away to Melbourne, had virtually
decided on a full-scale invasion of Sydney.
Drysdale’s argument is that the Privy
Council decision makes it legal for him
to sell tickets for his sweepstake in New
South Wales and, for that matter, in
every State of the Commonwealth. He
has been claiming for some time that
there is no legal barrier to his doing
this, but apparently he had been advised
to wait for the road-tax decision before
taking any action. He is now reported
to be hurrying on with plans to establish
a selling-agency in “every town through-
out Australia.”
Drysdale’s lottery is already selling
enough tickets in N.S.W. to cause Cahill
and Co. a slight headache; the introduc-
tion of a £30,000 “special” was an
acknowledgment of the strength of this
so-far clandestine competition. If, how-
ever, the Hobart man is right in his
interpretation of the latest decision on
Section 92 of the Constitution, it will
mean that his agents can now come out
into the open. And not they alone. State
barriers will be down for all lotteries,
whether Government-run, as in Sydney,
Brisbane and Perth, or Government-
licensed, as in Melbourne and Hobart.
There is an element of poetic justice
m this. The Tasmanian Lottery, in
invoking Section 92, obviously claims the
right to be regarded as a branch of
“trade and commerce.” When the
original Tatt.’s, whose place Drysdale’s
concern now fills in Hobart, was kicked
out of New South Wales and Queensland
in turn, neither of those States*would
concede it that classification, preferring
to recognise it for the gamble it was.
That was before Federation; but had
George Adams in the early years of the
Commonwealth seen fit to challenge the
ban, the States would have been able to
resist him on moral grounds and would
most certainly have won.
But in Sydney and Brisbane today
such resistance is no longer possible ; the
moral argument has gone completely, and
both the Gair and Cahill Governments
speak of their lotteries as “business
undertakings.” And there is as little
difference between business undertakings
and commerce as there is between the
chances of drawing a prize in one lottery
and another.
Banking Policy
From Canberra: During the session’s
closing weeks the Government avoided
pointed efforts to evoke some statement
of its banking policy, following the publi-
cation of the Commonwealth Bank’s
annual report and the obvious but as
yet not-openly-expressed concern of the
private trading banks. Since the report
appeared there have been published sug-
gestions in several quarters that the Com-
monwealth Bank (and its governor), by
using the £352 million of its competitors’
money in special account, has been
leading the Government along the back-
door approach to bank-nationalisation.
This was something of a political hot
potato, and neither the Government nor
the Opposition seemed especially anxious
to bring it into the open at this stage.
The banks themselves appeared coy
about it all, in contrast to their vigorous
and effective propaganda campaign in
1949 and earlier, but their staffs were
getting worried.
Replies to questions on the notice-
paper by an Opposition member and a
Government supporter have at least pro-
duced some of the facts. Acting
Treasurer Menzies has agreed that the
purpose of the special-account deposits
is to prevent the money from being used
as a basis of further loans by the banks,
“possibly on a scale to produce inflation.”
He (or the central bank) has admitted
that a large portion of the amount was
re-lent by the Commonwealth Bank at
interest-rates higher than the three-
quarter per cent, paid to the private
banks, but has denied, somewhat testily,
that the acquisition of investments by the
Commonwealth Bank is dependent upon
the amounts held in special accopnt.
The banks have not commented pub-
licly on Dr. Coombs’s criticism of
1953-54 trading banks’ advances as pos-
sibly having been “more than was
required to maintain employment and
provide for the growth of the economy.”
The Associated Chambers of Com-
merce, agreeing that there must be
central banking direction based
on as competent and dispassionate
appraisal of the national interest as the
wit of man can devise, have declared the
case unanswerable for complete and
effective separation of the central bank
from all trading activities in competition
with the banks whose co-operation it is
seeking. They suggest also that the
special account should be replaced by a
reserve-ratio requirement, within defined
limits. Such suggestions would be
unacceptable to “Labor” but may offer a
lead to the Government, which must
reconsider its banking policy at an early
date.
Peace and Western Germany
There seems likely to be no let-up in the
Russian offensive against the West,
despite the clutching of straws by the
press every time Malenkov smiles in his
cups or Khruschev pats a diplomat on the
shoulder.
It was made to appear in the Australian
press a few days ago as if Mr. Dulles,
the American Secretary of State, had
come to the point where he might
imagine peace a possibility, but the
fuller text of his talk now available
exhibits him full of gloom and forebod-
ing, certain that the Geneva agreement
did not make Seato unnecessary, know-
ledgeable about the “free Thai” move-
ment (which has been organised in Red
China for the extension of Communism
to Siam) and about the Vietminh forces
which have doubled in Indo-China since
the armistice, and also about “assassina-
tion groups” intimidating the South
Indo-China civil service, and concentra-
tions of Chinese troops in Yunnan
threatening Burma.
All he has had to say about Indo-
China has been confirmed and has led
to U.S.-French talks within the past few
days, after which a joint communique
has been issued.
It seems that since the armistice was
made in Geneva on July 20 the Vietminh
armies in North Vietnam have been rein-
forced by three divisions, two of them
armored, in flat defiance of the armistice
agreement, while a steady flow of
Russian war material has been pouring
in. The situation is made easier for the
Communists by knowledge of French-
U.S. differences about support for the
Vietnam Premier, whom the French
suspect.
The effect of this rank breach of agree-
ment by China and Russia, which are
the real authorities behind the shadow
Government of Ho Chih-minh in the
north, is that French military forces
must be maintained at considerable
strength in southern Indo-China, and that
other nations must dissipate their
strength and assemble troops in places
remote from Europe, weakening home
defence —or in the alternative must
abandon the whole Orient to Com-
munism.
The Communist policy may be
intended to do no more than that, or it
may be deliberate provocation. It cer-
tainly is trying to the nerves.
Contemporaneously, of course, Chinese
trade delegations armed with offers to
release more “war criminals’V-otherwise
p.-0.-w. illegally detained —in return for
favors are trying to make agreements ;
and Comrade Molotov, suave and deter-
mined as ever, is trying to cloak the fact
that only satellite countries accepted his
invitation to an all-Europe conference
on peace, which was to be steered by
Russia and used as a solvent of Western
defence agreements. He has offered to
postpone the conference if only the West
will call off the plan to arm Western
Germany. But the Atlantic Pact coun-
tries have at last learnt the value of
leading from strength, and they are
not ready to confer until the Paris agree-
ments are ratified, which will scarcely be
before the end of the year.
A new phase in relationships with
Russia will then be under construction,
provided the Nato allies can keep to-
gether and France can maintain stability.
The West will be on the road to a point,
reachable in quite a short time, where it
will not be talking to the would-be
burglars of the East through the open
and unshuttered window of undefended
Western Germany.
Muddled Clergy
“In the ACT”: Every now and then
odd clergymen of sundry denominations
cease for a few moments their bewailing
of falling attendances in church to make
statements on subjects which they have
not the qualifications for understanding.
The incident of the Olympic hymn, with
its implied insult to our non-Christian but
still God-fearing visitors, is a small matter
compared with the continuous clamor
from some pulpits for abandonment of
the White Australia policy, or at least its
modification by adoption of a quota-
system.
Those who put this forward in the
usual platitudes may be sincere when they
describe the policy as non-Christian and
as an affront to our coffee-colored
brethren to the northward, but it is
apparent they have either never travelled
outside Australia, or have gone around
with a closed mind.
The United States has been ostensibly
a Christian nation since the first negro
slaves were brought from Africa, and
white South Africans and a lot of natives
were Christians before any numbers of
Indians reached those parts. Yet the dis-
plays of racial hatred on both sides in
those two countries alone are worse than
un-Christian ; they have been the begetters
of bloodshed and strife, and fruitful pro-
viders of cunning Communist propa-
ganda. Anything which tended to pro-
mote a similar state of affairs in Aus-
tralia could mean only tragedy and
disaster. As Immigration Minister
Harold Holt said recently, our policy is
not based on any notion of racial
superiority, but on a frank and realistic
recognition that there are important dif-
ferences of race, culture and economic
standards which would make successful
assimilation unlikely. He warned that any
other policy would lead to racial prob-
lems which had seriously disturbed the
community-life in countries where Euro-
pean and Asian cultures had come
together.
The Thirds Return
“Ek Dum”: The return of the Third
Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment,
marks another epoch in Australia’s war
history, and a notable one.
Four years and two months ago 500 of its
original volunteers were already in training-
camps while Mr. Jim Healy and other friends
of Russia encouraged the wharfies to strike
against the loading of the Changsha and
another ship with supplies for the United
Nations in Korea. At the same time the
British Brigade as it existed —Argylls and the
old “Die-Hards” (Middlesex) —were on the road
with the rest of the United Nations forces to
Seoul. On September 27, the Thirds, 960 on
full establishment, left Tokyo Bay in the U.S.
transport Aiken Victory under command of
Lieutenant-Colonel C. H. Green, D. 5.0., who
had gone ahead of them four days before in a
Japanese freighter. They were made up of
special volunteers from the proud 67th
Battalion of the Occupation Forces in Japan
or from home, and they were as fighting-fit a
battalion as ever sailed overseas, with a large
leaven of men thoroughly experienced in war,
and a very large proportion inured to Far
Eastern conditions.
Within three days of leaving Tokyo they were
heading ffom war-confused Taegu 30 miles
into the hill country north-west of the town
to join in the mopping-up which was going
on in the rear of the American advance forces
landed at Inchon. Their “B” and “C” Com-
panies were the first out on October 2, sup-
ported by Shermans. They came on none
of the pockets of the enemy that still abounded
south of the front of the American advance,
but Lieutenant Hummerston, 2/i.c. of C Com-
pany, who had formerly been General Robert-
son’s A.D.C. in 8.C.0.F., was killed with his
driver by a mine—the first Australian casualties
of the war.
On October 5 they were shifted North by
air to Kimpo, leaving brigade transport to
come by road, and on October 9 were moved
up into the Ist U.S. Cavalry Division assembled
at Kaesong for an intended drive on Pyong-
yang, the North Korean capital. At Kaesong
they were only three miles from the 38th
Parallel. Their subsequent activities, carried
on on narrow or non-existent roads among
high and ragged mountains in drenching rain,
were neither inspiring nor lethal until they were
sent to capture Sariwon, reputed to be a sub-
stantial military centre in North Korea, 34
miles ahead of them. The road was opened
by the Argylls on October 17 to within four
miles of the town, when they ran suddenly into
heavy opposition. While the “Rories” settled
this blockage in typical Highland fashion —
though they were far from experienced troops,
save for their officers and non-coms —the Aus-
tralians sliced through without attack about
eight miles beyond Sariwon and cut the main
road to Pyong Yang, across which they planted
themselves, in the middle of a two-way enemy
traffic.
On the enemy jt had not yet dawned that
Sariwon had been taken. Indeed, for a time,
the two traffic-streams were often almost one,
the confusion being the more intense because
the North Koreans mistook the red of the
Argylls’ caps for a Russian emblem, and were
prepared to welcome them as brothers. They
even exchanged hats and cigarettes with them
—for a time.
But after the foe found put that he had
been duped it was a bit like being in the
middle of a fireworks display at a tattoo.
Then Major I. B. Ferguson, M.C., with a
company under Major Thirlwall, took a hand.
Mounted on a tank, they announced to all the
North Koreans in sight that they were sur-
rounded and, though the N. Koreans gave the
matter a perilous minute or so of thought,
1982 of them eventually came in with a moun-
tain of weapons. The cosmopolitan air of the
performance was intensified when a Russian
truck was found battling along among the
Australian transport complete with an officer
or so, a couple of ladies and a batch of more
or less happy Korean soldiers. An officer on
another Russian truck —this time bogged—
politely stopped the Australians, yelled
“Russki,” and demanded that his vehicle be
pulled out. It was.
While the Americans and S. Koreans took
Pyong Yang the Australians advanced 76 miles
in two days, slowed up in the rain, and once
more became a spearhead in the advance to get
to the 187th Airborne Regimental Combat
Team, cut off in the Yongyu area, north of
captured capital. They formed the southern
half of a sandwich with the beleaguered
Americans, wiped out 150 North Koreans and
took 239 more. It was Lieutenant-Colonel
Green’s personal fight, for his h.q. was right in
the middle of the swirling battle.
Among the paddy-fields afterwards the war
became more luce a rabbit-hunt, with a North
Korean under almost every straw-heap.
Then came further spearheading, the now-
famous battle of the Broken Bridge and Picnic
Corner on the Taeyong River, which gave them
their first sight of a Russian T-34 tank—
“looking about the size of the Taxation Build-
ing and equally fearsome.”
Somebody tried to attack it with a bazooka,
but was so excited by the spectacle of such a
target that he forgot to take off the safety-
catch. There was a night of banzai charges
and other excitements. At dawn the Australians
were still in their positions, but at dusk that
day they lost their gallant young commander.
Green, when a stray high-velocity shell landed
near the tent in which he was asleep, and
wounded him mortally. The battalion, short ot
nine killed and 30 wounded, had played a
splendid part in the operation. The brigade
had marched 31 miles in 12 hours to the nearest
point to the Manchurian border they ever
reached to deal the enemy what General Gay, the
U.S. Divisional Commander, termed “a disas-
trous blow.” . , ,
The following month saw the entry of the
Chinese and of the Korean winter, during which
the troops for the first time encountered the
Manchurian wind and the below-zero tempera-
tures in which beer froze in the bottle, eggs
in their shells, Diggers in their undershirts, and
water in their whiskers—a fact whidi prevented
them drinking when there was anything liquid
enough to drink. But thanks to the P r
of the Home Government they were the first
troops to wear the new American winter issue,
when they became recognisable only because of
the rising-suns which Colonel Ferguson, Colonel
(i Continued on next page )


Green’s successor, ordered them to wear on
their pile caps.
They were soon seasoned for the bitter fight-
ing ahead when the weight of the Chinese drove
them from all that had been taken, including
battered Seoul —for the terrible month west of
Changhowon-ni when they held the forward
position, five companies (one of attached
Middlesex) along 3500 yards, tied down to a
static role in below-zero weather in which
there were heavy patrols to be done, when
those who stayed “at home” had often to
be lifted from their foxholes, and burns and
blisters from cold barrels and knocks from
falling down with frozen legs were common
injuries.
There was all the winter probing around the
Inchon area, the march by the battalion —now
known to themselves as the “Mountain Goats,”
otherwise the “Human Camels,” against the
North Koreans, on Wonju, the gallant
attempt of “B” Company to take Hill
614 on a ridge so narrow that only one man
could move on it at a time, wriggling like a
snake through the bush. “D” Company even-
tually did the job, and “B” consolidated it, and
“C” with the Canadians acquired the neigh-
boring heights. There was Bald Knob and
Pine Ridge.
Within six months of the beginning of their
service they had moved up to within reach of
the Manchurian border, had retired more than
200 miles, had advanced again 100 miles to the
38th Parallel, seen 165 days of action, lost
300 men killed, wounded and missing, including
their first commander. Practically the whole of
the personnel had been replaced, and many
replacements in turn become veterans and ready
for the beginning of the Chinese Fifth Phase
offensive, which began as the Australians were
gathering azaleas for their Anzac Day wreaths
on April 22, 1951 —they were bringing over
some Turks to take part in the show.
On April 23 defeated South Koreans began
to trot through their lines in advance of the
victorious Chinese, and at 10 p.m. that night
came the Chinese themselves, advance-guards
of their main drive which, before midnight,
brought fierce fighting all round the perimeter,
the prelude to two proud days which earned
the battalion the right to wear the bluewatered-
silk of the U.S. Presidential citation on both
arms in token of their having, with other units
concerned, “displayed such gallantry, determina-
tion and esprit de corps in accomplishing their
missions as to set them apart and above other
units participating in the campaign.” This
sturdy defence assured that “the seriousness of
the break-through on the central front had
been changed from defeat to victory by the
gallant stand of these heroic and courageous
soldiers.”
In July, 1951, the battalion became part of
the new Commonwealth Division under Major-
General “Jim” Cassels, in the I Corps. The
division held an 11,000 yd. line south of the
Widgeon Crossing of the Imjin. It took part
in October in “Operation Commando” to
straighten the Allied Line and teach the enemy
that the U.N.O. Forces were still alive. Its
share in the taking of Little Gibraltar and its
capture of Hill 317, under Lieutenant-Colonel
Frank Hassett, capped the glories of its cam-
paigning—bitter heroic mountain battling pre-
liminary to the new winter and the springtime
arrival of the Ist Battalion and the small inter-
mittent but sometimes difficult scrapping in
which the war petered, out.
The tale of the 3rd Royals is too long to be
told fully here; but it will be found at length,
with that of all the other Australian forces in
Korea, in the splendidly written With the
Australians in Korea, edited by Norman Bartlett,
which the board of the Australian War Memorial
has issued contemporaneously with the return
of the battalion, the only one which saw the
war right through. The book is worthy of the
epic.
POLITICAL POINTS
Next session of the Parliament at West-
minster will be opened by the Queen on
November 30, which is Churchill’s 80th
birthday. When the formal proceedings
in the Lords are finished members of
both Houses will go to Westminster Hall
for a ceremony at which the Speaker will
preside, and at which Clement Attlee
will present the P.M. with a portrait in
oils by Graham Sutherland. The
“father” of the Commons, Welshman
David Grenfell, will present a com-
memorative volume prepared under the
direction of the College of Arms, and
containing the signatures of'every Com-
mons member. The portrait is a gift
from both Houses, the book from the
Commons.
• •
As far as can be ascertained, Dr. Evatt
made no of conspiracy against
anyone last week.
• «
While 6 p.m. was still holding the lead
in the N. S. Wales liquor referendum the
president and secretary of the Temper-
ance Alliance issued a statement expres-
sing “unqualified support for the demo-
cratic processes” and urging the Govern-
ment “to accept and adhere to the result
of the referendum.” They also expressed
their unqualified opposition to any
attempt to regard the referendum as
merely consultative.
By the following night 10 p.m. had
gone to the lead, thereby putting the
Alliance in the position of advocating
Government action to introduce later
closing-hours. To give the two officials
their due, they did not attempt to back
down, but they must have wished they
had not spoken quite so soon.
The position now is that the spokes-
men for both six-o’clock and 10-o’clock
are urging Cahill to keep the pubs open
till 10 p.m.
• 9
Both sides of politics in N. S. Wales
are making early preparations for the
State election, still more than a year
distant. .The Libs have announced that
they will contest every metropolitan seat,
every seat they now hold in the country
and every “Labor”-held country seat
except Armidale, Castlereagh, Cobar,
Murrumbidgee and Sturt. These will
be left for the Country party to fight,
and there will be no Liberal candidates
nominated for seats held by the Country
party.
9 9
Further “Labor” preselections were
announced last week. Clive Evatt
retained the nomination for Hurstville,
though not without strong competition,
Chifley’s old campaign-secretary, J. Rob-
son, will carry the party’s tattered
banner in Hartley in an effort to oust
rebel Chalmers,
9 9
“Here at last on the dark wings of
night England won back her birthright in
glorious fashion.” Somebody at a Dun-
kirk, El Alamein or Battle of Britain
celebration? No. London “Times” on
the fact that Wolverhampton Wanderers
defeated a leading Russian Soccer team,
Spartak, by four to nil.
9 9
Premier Cain, in the midst of a heated
debate on a Victorian bill to ratify the
Wheat Stabilisation Bill:
I have been very much maligned for my
13-months opposition to the plan, but the
wheatgrower .will live to see the day when
he’ll admit I was right. The day we lose
Britain as our chief wheat consumer—we
lose our best customer.
If they weren’t dazzled by their political
spokesmen the wheatgrowers would
admit the correctness of that statement
right now.
9 9
There’s a move to put Sydney Water
Board chauffeurs in uniform. ’Twas
sponsored by a former “Labor” aider-
man, who believes it would give “greater
dignity to the board and added prestige
to the chauffeurs.” It is, of course, very
necessary that the prestige of chauffeurs
be enhanced, but how could anything
give greater dignity to the board?
Speaking of strikes! The Royal Mint
has just issued its 1952 report, showing
that in that year it struck 488,750,689
coins, of which more than 45 million
were for the U.K., more than 327 mil-
lion for other Commonwealth countries
and 116 million for foreign Govern-
ments. That’s the way to make money!
• •
Melbourne motorists are now taking
the right-hand turn with the grace and
ease of practised artists, and some are
even driving on against the red-light.
These heroes are contravening the regu-
lation which says that they mustn’t. The
Chief Commissioner told his policemen
that they must observe the law, but Chief-
Secretary Galvin told civilians to go
ahead and break it because he was get-
ting the Act amended. The motorists are
now asking themselves whether the State
will indemnify them against fines and
costs charged against them by courts
which interpret the law according to its
plain meaning.
• •
It was here noted (B. 17/11 /’54) that
the incursions of West Indians into Eng-
land was beginning to create a color
problem. Now the British Trades Union
Congress is to consider a plan to bar
"PROPALONG"
colored men from supervisory jobs. In
the Midlands, where more than 250
colored men work on Birmingham buses
alone, union officials are “alarmed” by
the growing numbers of colored job-
hunters.
• •
In answer to denials by the Indonesian
Government of earlier reports that armed
Indonesian forces had landed in Dutch
New Guinea, the Netherlands Govern-
ment has issued a statement alleging that
a band of 48 men, consisting of “at least
12 Amboinese, a greater number of Indo-
nesians from Dobo and a few Papuans
residing in Indonesia” landed at Etna
Bay on October 21 from a vessel flying
the Dutch flag. Up to November 11, say
the Dutch, 25 had been captured and
five killed; 16 rifles, one mortar, auto-
matic weapons and a large quantity of
documents had also been captured.
The statement claims that these men,
among others, were trained on Amboina
by officers of the Indonesian Army for
the purpose of landing in New Guinea
to wage guerrilla warfare and spread
unrest with the idea of creating the
impression of a spontaneous revolt by
the Papuan population.
• •
According to Brisbane “Courier-Mail,”
N. S. Wales Minister for Agriculture
Graham has suggested shifting the
Queensland boundary-fence so as to
include Coolangatta in New South Wales,
Queensland Agricultural Minister Collins
admits receiving the proposal, and says
that if it is of benefit to both States “it
will probably be considered further.”
That’s a rather diplomatic comment, but
Coolangatta is yet to be heard from.
• «
Latest and most persistent rumor in
political circles in Sydney is that when
Dr. Upton, chairman of the Sydney
Water and Sewerage Board, retires he
will be succeeded at £5OOO a year by a
great engineer named Cahill. The Hon.
Gus Kelly would be a more suitable
appointee —he at least had some
engineering experience manipulating
Cricket Ground turnstiles.
• •
“In the ACT”: Super political sleuth
Eddie Ward recently asked questions
regarding the “American Investigation
Agency” in Australia, suggesting that
official recognition has been given to its
officers and that Government facilities
had been made available to them.
Menzies got a report from the Investiga-
tion Service which states that
this name is a name registered under the
N.S.W. Business Names Act by a young
man living in Sydney. When interviewed,
this young man stated that he has no office
in the U.S. and has no official recognition
by the U.S. Government, nor has he bad
made available to him any facilities by the
Commonwealth Government. He went on
to say that in the whole of its 2\ years of
existence the agency had done only two
small private assignments, both for an
American organisation describing itself as
the “Master Detectives International. Service
Organisation”—which, incidentally, charged
him 10 dollars as a joining fee —each being
an attempt to locate a missing person. It
was apparently successful in one instance
(which related to a divorce matter) but not
in the other matter. Apparently also the
young gentleman has issued two of his
friends with identification-cards containing
personal particulars and fingerprints.
Menzies said that if Ward wished to
make more inquiries he would be
furnished with the name of the young
man.
• •
Blake Felly (Lib.) told the N.S.W. Par-
liament that the Grain Elevator Board
should be free from political control and
interference. He might just as well look
for a fellmongery without a smell.
• •
Cahill’s Blottery is up against a prob-
lem. Its director organised a £30,000
sweep and advertised it as a Christmas
lottery, urging the public to buy tickets
for use as Christmas gifts. It filled in a
day, and there’s an outcry from those
who gave the gifts to themselves and
can’t wait till Christmas Lo know the
result. If Cahill orders an earlier draw-
ing to meet this demand he’ll be breaking
faith with those who did buy the tickets
for others. These folk would be in a
very difficult position. It’s one thing to
give someone a lottery-ticket which may
win a prize. It’s quite a different matter
to give away a ticket which you know
has won a prize. As for giving away
one which you know hasn't won a prize
—well, you simply can’t do it.
• •
Faced with the Privy Council road-
transport decision, a Sydney politician
yelped that the roads would now be
battered to pieces and taxes would have
to be imposed to mend them. But the
million or so a year the N. S. Wales
Government takes from the road-hauliers
has never been applied to road-mending ;
it goes to bolster up figures of the
railways.
While all the celebrations are going
on among road-transport operators over
the Privy Council decision freeing them
from State penal taxation The Bulletin
is justified in patting itself on the back.
Ever since the Lang Government intro-
duced the Road-transport Act in the
early ’thirties this paper has —mostly
single-handed—fought it all along the
line.
• •
The “war” between Peru and a Greek
millionaire’s private whaling fleet may
bring to an early head the pending case
before the International Court between
Australia and Japan concerning the
definition of the “continental shelf.”
Pleadings have already taken some time,
and last week there was still no indication
in Canberra when the actual hearing was
likely. Many nations, including the U.S.,
which is jealous of its oil rights off Cali-
fornia and in the Gulf of Mexico, are
interested in the outcome, and the dispute
a long way off the Peruvian coast (some
reports said 200 miles) brings other
parties into the picture.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS."
TWO cricket-teams arriving for a match
on the oval of a busy and prosperous
Sydney suburb were delighted, though
surprised, to find the grandstand full of
people. Then, while spectators continued
to arrive, it was broken to the cricketers
that a floral festival was about to be held
in marquees in the outer ground beyond
the boundary, and that the opening
parade might circle the boundary itself.
The match began, players enjoying the
unexpected interest of the large crowd,
and crowd applauding the unexpected
additional attraction.
Gates opened ; police motor-cycles and
a Rolls Royce led the parade: men’s
pipe-bands, women’s pipe-bands, floats
adorned with flowers and the district’s
most beautiful females, a fleet of vans
advertising local industries, a squad of
marching girls.
The players conferred, and returned to
their game. Fieldsmen crashed apolo-
getically through the circling procession
to recover the ball.
The parade drew further in towards the
centre of the field. Amplifiers blared,
and the Army arrived with mobile anti-
aircraft guns.
The game continued ; a few spectators
continued to applaud.
But with the arrival of a competing
team of archers, the cricketers retired,
“Then eventually I decided to take the ‘How to Attract Women course .”
though not, they now insist, until the
fast-bowler had scored one arrow in one
behind, or had been stumped in the bulls-
eye —their sporting-vocabulary was by
then a little mixed.
Jorris.
“Tiggy”; Here’s what a sign in the
shop-window of a Melbourne laundrette
says:—
Ladies who Care to Drive
by and Drop off their Clothes
Will Receive Prompt and
Courteous Attention.
❖ <♦ *x*
“Mackville”: The neighbor’s wife
called mine to the fence; showed her
something; and presently I was
summoned, Mr. Nexdaw had left two
pound-notes in his shorts and they hadn’t
been discovered until they’d come out of
the washing-machine. Did I think the
bank would change them? I looked at
the mauled, mutilated mess and doubt-
fully submitted that there was only one
way to find out. They enlist you as an
adviser, and then make you an executive.
Would I? I was going down the street,
wasn’t I? . . . The teller chuckled;
“Another washing-machine job?” and
tossed over a couple of brand-new
fiddlies. It must often happen.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Operus”: Sydney Symphony
Orchestra tends to go to sleep in public.
It then sounds, not like a band of
musicians, but like the Musicians’ Union
on a go-slow strike. The same kind of
polished boredom is often dished-up by
English orchestras. The best musicians
have always come from the slums and
ghettoes of Europe. Conductors should
be ill-bred: they should swear and stamp
their way through rehearsals. Toscanini’s
baton-busting rages forged a sharpness
of rhythm in even the tenderest phrases,
Of course the initial impulses which
outline a loud phrase are reduced in
scale for a soft one; but they should
still be there. The genteel approach is
one for which large-scale symphonic
music seldom calls. But Mr. Goossens,
usually so lively, is subject, at times,
to mysterious attacks of primness. He
then addresses his orchestra as though it
were a cup of weak tea. He even crooks
his little finger.
“Lovely view over there , Alf."
“0.C.”: Frogs who “would a-wooing
go” have caused a writ to be issued out
of the Victorian Supreme Court in which
the plaintiffs seek an injunction and
damages, alleging that the defendant first
“permitted” pools of water to collect on
his land and then “permitted” frogs or
toads to emit “loud and frequent creak-
ings and/or similar noises” to the plain-
tiffs’ nightly distress and “deterioration
of health.”
* ❖ ❖
“Tv Oper”: Christmas is coming.
Shipping has been at a standstill.
Presumably the breweries have stocks of
bottled-beer which couldn’t be shipped.
May we presume that the stuff will be
there for the asking? Or may we?
* ❖ *
“Ret. W.”: One of the reasons why
English is a vital language is that, unlike
most contemporary modem languages, it
can absorb foreign slang and technical
terms without visible colic. All the same,
some sort of a censorship ought to apply.
Otherwise, people trading with banks may
expect that, having got away with such
ugly substitutes as “encash” and “encash-
ment” for cash and cashing, as applied to
cheques, the money-changers will perpe-
trate further horrors.
* *
“Hist”: To hell with the background
noises which producers introduce for
“atmosphere”- in radio-plays! How can I
catch that vital confession of the heroine,
dining in a restaurant with the villain,
when the string-band and the yap-yap-
yap of the customers are intruding
fortissimo ? Or it may be the roar of the
storm about the lonely manor-house;
or the beat of surf; or the rattle
of that T-model Ford in which,
apparently, radio - characters invariably
travel. In moderation the sounds-effect
bloke is 0.K., but there are times when
I could choke him.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: Varied were the remarks
that arose as a direct result of a jab with
a hypodermic needle in the pre-embarka-
tion line-up for the complete issue of
injections. One lad employed his waiting
time cartooning the other sister and my-
self with veils flying, as we wielded pneu-
matic drills on the seething mass of
soldiers. On another occasion a fightin’
soldier peered around the tent-flap and
addressed me: “Is this the place where
they’re doin’ the harpoonin’?” Another,
jabbed with a serum needle, yelped
wildly, “Hell —is that your Parker
Fifty-one?”
♦♦♦
“Tidbinbilla”: Current trend in radio-
announcing is toward the translation of
foreign musical titles into English when-
ever possible, while an anglicised
pronunciation is allowed for words not
translated. Before this commendable
practice began, many announcers
delighted in showing off their linguistic
achievements, often switching languages
without pause in mid-sentence, while
pronouncing each language like a native,
And not always like an Australian
native this often resulted in a
technically-perfect announcement, but one
which few listeners could understand.
I treasure the memory of one such A.B.C.
announcer whose laryngeal gymnastics
ended in disaster. The announcement,
coming in between two recorded items,
went something like this; “You have
just heard Orazio Frugoni playing II
vecchio castello from Moussorgsky’s
Tableaux d’une Exposition. Next we
hear Aulikki Rautawaara singing Ach!
ich ful’s from Mozart’s Die Zauberflote
with I’Orchestre de I’Opera Comique
conducted by Co-ahteez” (Pause.)
“I —er —think that should be —conducted
by Coates.”
❖ ♦> ❖
“J 242”; Shock makes people react in
some odd ways. We had a leading-tel.
on our corvette who was normally very
calm. He’d seen his share of enemy-
anger aboard cruisers, but he never felt
quite happy about the size and motion of
the little escort ship. Steaming off
Noemfoor one day, the sea calm and blue
as only the tropic seas can be, we stood
in groups on the fo’c’sle enjoying the
sun, when Buster’s mouth and eyes
opened wide, a shaking hand rose to
point seaward, and he slowly dropped to
his knees. The alarm-rattler shook us
out of our amazement and we added our
share to the noise of running feet—all
except Buster. He started to walk, still
on his knees, and went right around
the bridge-structure, still pointing and
making vague mouthings, until he
collected I4st. of running seaman. He'd
seen a periscope—it turned out to be a
Yank sub.
*> ❖ ❖
“Swelpme”: In Eddy-avenue, Sydney,
stalactites dangle down from the underside
of the bridge that carries the trams up to
Central Station. The portion
that forms a kind of ceiling over the
footpath has been painted, but the long,
slender formations have not been inter-
fered with. Pondering, I can think of four
possible reasons: (a) The painters, com-
mendably, left the stalactites so that
science might acquire first-hand know-
ledge of the rate of growth achieved by
a youthful stalactite ; (Z>) their action was
inspired by patriotic, long-range realisa-
tion that, in some thousands of years’
time, tourists will flock to Sydney to
behold the Eddy-avenue Caves —which
will make Sydney prosperous and in a
financial position to send her aldermen as
tourists to other countries; (c) they had
been paid to paint the under-side of the
bridge, and, a stalactite not being the
bridge or part thereof, they weren’t going
to work for nothing. But (d) strikes me
as being the most logical explanation.
After all, compulsory unionism is law
now, and a good unionist doesn t butt
in on another man’s trade. I don’t doubt
that the matter has been referred to the
Stalactite Knocker-offs’ Industrial Union,
and will be dealt with in due course.
HALF-AND-HALF
“Voting in the N. S. Wales Hotel Closing-hours Referendum was almost even for six-o’clock
and ten-o’clock.”
“Oh, have a drink of half-and-half,” said Six-o’clock to Ten.
*7 don’t mind, if I do,” said Ten ; and later: “Once again ?”
“No more for me, old boy,” said Six. “I mean it. Ten; I won’t F*
“Oh, have another drink,” said Ten. “I do mind if you don’t.”
“The sun has set, and now,” said Six, “I do mind if / do”
“I cannot have a drink,” said Ten, “unless it is with you!”
“Oh, tempt me not with pity,” Six replied. “I’ve said I won’t;
It’s hard, but I must tell you. Ten, I don’t mind if you don’t.”
“Well, split the difference,” said Ten; “not early and not late;
Let’s add us up .. . sixteen, we are; and halve us —stay till eight!
And join me in a drinking-song more suitable for two :
T don’t mind if you do mind if I don’t mind if I do.’ ”
By eight-o’clock Ten said to Six, “The night so well begun
Should be brought up to ten-o’clock with just another one . .
But afterwards as Six went home he sang as was his wont,
“I do mind if you don’t mind if I do mind if I don’t!”
But Ten went home more soberly, for he began to think
“Why must I get that fellow drunk to get myself a drink ?
And why is it impossible to take a tolerant view:
T don’t mind if you don’t,’ or else, 7 don’t mind if you do’?”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T HOPE, some time before I conk, to
-*• see some concert-platform singer,
goaded beyond endurance at having his
or her voice hammered flat by an
orchestra allowed to fix its own tonal
weight, seize the baton from the con-
ductor on a down-beat and violently
massage his skull with it. The score so
far this season in Sydney among the
victims is five imploring looks, seven
scowls and a brace of suppressed sobs.
The classic example happened in Europe
in 1909, when Madame Schumann-
Heink, the massive German contralto,
was rehearsing as Clytemnestra for the
premiere of Richard Strauss’s opera
“Elektra.” The singer was pitting her
powerful voice against the violent score
and a berserk orchestra. The composer
“Two pints , please .”
could see that all was not as it should
be, and he stopped the orchestra and
turned to the conductor. “Louder!
Louder!” he shouted. “I can still hear
the voice of Frau Heink!” —“Bo,”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tapioca”: It’s not only about every-
day commodities (B. 3/11/ ’54) that
misleading terms are used. A honeyed
announcer was bidding us buy a com-
modity accompanied by a gift of
Interplanetary Stamps. They are genuine,
he assured us. No wonder Junior,
coloring a map of the Roman Empire
for high-school homework, looked up
and said, “These old Romans weren’t
real, were they?”
* * ❖
“Poppa”: My collector of advertis-
ments in the Sydney “Telegraph”
competition advanced from 400 Daffodils
in the second week to more than 1500
Daffodils in the fourth and final week.
His mother was helping him count, and
it was his spelling-test next day: “How
do you spell ‘Daffodil’?” she asked idly.
“D-a-f-f-i-d-i-a-1,” said the Collector. If
I fail to draw a moral it’s because I
haven’t any left.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nakhoda”: November 9 was the 40th
anniversary of the Sydney-Emden battle,
which ended Von
Mueller’s raid on Cocos
Island. Von Mueller
never actually cut the
island’s communications.
There were three live
cables running from the
island —to Perth, Batavia
and Mauritius —but also
the usual short lengths
run out to sea for use in
case of faults or breaks.
The electrician-in-charge
took a bath to avoid
being asked awkward
questions, and the
Germans spent so much
time sawing away at the
dummy cables that they
had only time to get on
to one of the live ones
before the Sydney hove
over the horizon. Spare
instruments had been buried in a
secret cache known only to the
superintendent, and as soon as the
landing-party’s back was turned a cable
was connected and head-office in London
was reading a description of the battle.
I was one of the operators who read off
the message.
“Civav”: Stressing the importance of
the Cocos Island air-strip, R. G. Casey
mentioned its war-time use as a staging-
point on the long Ceylon-W.A. ocean-
crossing. R.A.F. Transport Command
flew dozens of V.I.P.s on that route, and
it was a pleasure to be able to ask as
they retired for the night-stop, “And
would you like fresh fruit for breakfast,
sir?” Of course they would, and an
even greater pleasure was to watch their
faces as they got it next morning—
coconuts.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Beat’im”: The lament of “Brick E.”
for his old newsagent (B. 3/11/’54) was
echoed in our house, for we, too, have
lost a straight-shooting and early
Deliverer. The “old one” once grew
curious about a gaudy and highly
decorated rolled-up paper that was to be
seen on our veranda every morning, and
rang-up to ask about it. I had to explain
that our neighbor’s fox-terrier was fond
of trotting off to his master with our
paper, so I had given him a brighter
alternative, hoping he would take this
and leave our daily. The plan was work-
ing, obviating fist-shaking across the
fence, and keeping us all good friends.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Auburn”: There may be a future for
magnetised molars (B. 3/11 /’54) in all
places except near electro - magnetic
cranes, but the first thought is that the
weight of steel in acrylic dentures would
offset the gain. The problem might be
easier if stainless steel were magnetic.
In a war-time school in Victoria it was
intriguing to watch the lecturer showing
camp-plans, troop-movements and battle-
manoeuvres by moving objects around on
the blackboard, chalk assisting as neces-
sary. The explanation was thin plywood
on a steel sheet, and the tanks, guns,
trenches, etc., were all based on bar-
magnets! It seemed to have a future as
an aid to lecturing, but apparently was
of limited value, never having become
popular.
* * *
“T.J.”: The northern hospital was
giving the anti-T.B. Mantoux-tests. All
the staff were in it, and a secretary asked
a new typist, “And have you had a
Mantouxi dear?" The lass bridled a bit,
then answered, “Well, I am married, if
that’s what you mean!”
,
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Salt Junk Joe”.: When The Bulletin’s
Showman and I settled a geographical
argument in Bateman’s bar six years ago
I thought that would be the last time I
would have to correct the error, but
here it is again, in K. A. Saxby’s article,
“Snows of Kosciusko” (B. 10/11/’54).
For, I hope, the last time, I must point
out that the Roaring Forties are not a
wind ; the term refers to that portion of
the globe—round about 40 degrees south
latitude—in which the stormy westerlies
blow. It is wrong to speak of the “cold,
moisture-laden Roaring Forties.” But,
speaking of things cold and moisture-
laden, if the Showman cares to bring Mr.
Saxby along to our earlier rendezvous,
perhaps we can convince him.
❖ ❖ *>
“Burna”: The umbrella worn by the
warrior at the Sydney bus-stop,
resplendent in kilts and a’, looked out-
of-place ; but Melbourne is used to such
incongruities. When a public-service
branch went R.A.A.F. in 1941, ranks were
allotted according to salary; Mr. Jones
became Wing-Commander Jones, young
Smith the messenger became Aircrafts-
man Smith, and “the office” became a
battle-station. Little time was wasted on
training in service-customs. An elderly
flight-lieutenant, hazily recalling some-
thing about saluting the King s uniform
at all times, went down the street gai y
throwing salutes to amazed and gratified
airmen, privates and ratings. AndSquad-
ron-Leader X, walking down Collins-
street in foil uniform on his way to
»»*, “ his Wt hand .his umbrella ca^
ned smartly at the trail, was enough to
surprise Melbourne once and for all at
lhis unusual de£ensive ui Pment-
♦♦♦
“Pedagogue”: Those of us who were
brought up on Henty and Captain
Marryat will have to change our ideas.
From a schoolboy criticism: “The
story is the most interesting and best-
written in the book, since it keeps the
reader tense with excitement and anxiety,
and does not use excess of technical
terms. The use of these spoils many
other stories, such as the ones relating to
sailing-ships.”
“HORROR” FILM
The blurb assured me this was one
I really shouldn’t miss for quids;
My senses it would shock and stun !
It warned: Not suitable for kids.
Should I be carted out, cold clay,
Because excitement stopped my ticker.
The management would gladly pay
My next-of-kin a wad —none quicker.
Such rich enticement I could not
Resist, and so I went inside.
Prepared to run my nerves red-hot,
Gazing on horror goggle-eyed.
I had no friendly arm to clutch ;
The seat-edge gingerly I sat on.
In case my hair should rise too much
I thought it best to keep my hat on.
The Thing appeared, a scaly beast.
Atomic blasts had set it free
From its imprisoning ice—at least,
That’s what the set-up seemed to be.
It heaved itself across the screen ;
It might have been a brontosaurus . . .
No fiercer physog have I seen
Singing in a “Messiah” chorus.
From polar spheres it made off south
To terrorise the haunts of man.
It really had an outsize mouth —
Like many a comedian !
It took one minute (as would I)
Two cardboard lighthouses to flatten,
And thence it sped unerringly
To cast up there on old Manhattan.
It ate a traffic-cop, first go;
Just chewed him up, as horse its chaff.
I’ve had ’em bite my Head off, so
I joined those round me in the laugh.
But, dammit, that was all the fun
We were to have! The rest was
barmy :
The bront. withstanding every gun
Fired at it by a panicked Army.
Then, as the “horror" stuff kept on
I noted near me someone snored;
Some patrons had got up and gone.
The rest were obviously bored.
I left; of yawns I’d had a feast.
Nor did I need nerve-toning whisky,
For gazing on a rubber beast
Could scarcely be described as risky.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
JUSTICE OF THE PEACE
BECOMING a Justice of the Peace was
more trouble than I’d bargained for.
A note came from the Chief-Secretary’s
office that I was to present myself for
swearing - in. I learned that if the
swearing-in was done by a Justice of the
High Court, the fee would be £2 25.;
if the office was performed at a Quarter
Sessions, there would be no charge.
Arriving at Darlinghurst Court House,
I found the Quarter Sessions in full blast.
Outside were litigants, counsel, officials,
journalists, witnesses and police, plus
listeners who wanted to fill-in a day. In
the Clerk of the Peace’s office down a
labyrinth of passages I, with other
budding J.P.s, signed the oath of fealty
to the Queen. A clerk told us: “Go
across to No. 1 Court, and you’ll see a
man in uniform. Report to him.”
Outside No. 1 was a “man in uniform,”
who said briskly: “Come this way,
gentlemen.”
Ushered into the huge court-room, we
were motioned into the jury-box; a
mixed bag: old men, some not so old,
a few quite young; all eager to swear
allegiance to the sovereign and to take
an oath that we would administer justice
without fear or favor. One of us was a
woman who told us she was “knocking
at the knees.” Well, weren’t we all!
There was a long delay—a Crown
witness in the first case, an orderly
announced, had not arrived—and so we
fell to chatting. My neighbor, a great
mountain of man, was, as I suspected,
an ex-policeman ; a sergeant, put out of
the force because of rheumatism in the
knees, he told me. He astonished me
when he said his pension was £l4 a week.
His idea, he said, was to supplement this
income by opening an estate-agency.
The sergeant “knew his way around”
courts and recalled many famous trials.
“In next door, in No. 2 Sessions,” he
said, “Mrs, is on trial.” [She was
found not guilty of a capital charge. The
case aroused tremendous public interest.]
“You know,” went on the sergeant,
“people are terribly curious in these
cases, especially if a woman is being
tried. It’s positively indecent; in fact,
degrading.”
I agreed. “You’d think it was a
catle show, the way they jam the courts.”
Came the swearing-in by the judge,
an astonishingly young man to occupy
the Bench. The advice he gave us was
excellent. “Never,” he said, “diminish,
the importance of your office. It is a
high and honorable one. Never do
anything that would tend to bring the
commission of a justice, or of the court
itself, into disrepute. And remember,
too, that your conduct and bearing at all
times should be beyond reproach.”
After that we went our ways. But
before I left' the precincts I thought,
“Well, a peep into No. 2 Court won’t
do me any harm; it will, in fact, serve
to show how justice works.”
I found myself in a dark corridor,
fumbled my way along, pushed a door
open. There stood my friend the
sergeant, outside another door leading
to the public-gallery.
“Ah,” he said disgustedly as he strode
off, “a man can’t get in here; the place
is chockful of women.”
JOCK.


Book now to fly
«e
-T— ■*»****
NPNBS2
iriTii
“pressurised”, propeller-inrbloe
I
THIS SUMMER
BOOKINGS: 119 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY. Phone 80526
PERSONAL ITEMS
Literary Fund fellowships go to Gavin
Casey, Kenneth Mackenzie and Alan
Wood: Casey for a novel on colored
people in a bush town, Mackenzie for
a novel on artistic life in three capital
cities, Wood for a life of Chester Wilmot.
Wood is a chip off the old historical
block —both father and brother were
Professors of History at Sydney
University.
• •
“Jasby” on an oil-geologist:
Apart from a pleasant and unassuming
geniality the most outstanding characteristic of
George M. Cunningham is his willingness to
draw a diagram at the drop of a question. A
few weeks ago, on the drill-site of Rough
Range No. 1 near Exmouth Gulf (W.A.), he
commenced to draw for me a diagram of the
contours 3000 ft. beneath our boots. The enve-
lope on which he began operations proving too
small, he picked up a match-stick and resumed
the drawing on the grease- and dust-grimed hind-
parts of an 18-wheeler transport. This was
admirably suited for the job, except that the
driver, unaware of the use to which his vehicle
was being put, started his engine. The truck
moved slowly forward. Instructor, drawing
furiously, and instructee, watching intently,
followed the mobile blackboard for twenty or
thirty yards until the pace got too hot. Without
even commenting on the interruption, Cunning-
ham stooped down and finished the lecture in
the sand.
Last week, minus trucks and sand, he made
do with pencil and copy-paper and left behind
him in The Bulletin editorial office the finest
collection of plain and fancy diagrams ever
GEOLOGIST
seen at 252 George-street. Casting around for
material with which to illustrate the folding of
the earth’s innards deep down, he seized the
nearest book. It happened to be the New South
Wales Industrial Gazette, a volume ideally suit-
able for demonstrating faults and anticlines.
But had it been a First Folio or the Family
Bible it would have been pressed into service
just the same.
An oil-geologist with the .Caltex group ever
since he got back to California from World
War I, Cunningham has diagrammed his way
through 25 countries since he became president
of American Overseas Petroleum in 1952. At
present in Australia looking over the oil-
ventures of Wapet, of which he is a director,
he was beaten with his own weapons by artist
John Clark, who wandered into a press confer-
ence in Sydney where Cunningham was
diagramming at full speed and diagrammed
him. Result herewith.
• •
Cornell University, New York, has
awarded New Zealander Murray Dawson
a Doctorate of Philosophy in agricul-
tural science. In Canada in 1950 to
join the Department of Agriculture for
animal-nutrition research at its station
at Swift Current, Saskatchewan, he
joined Cornell three years ago to
study soils and plant-life; present doc-
torate the result. He’s now assistant-
professor of Soil Science at Oregon State
University,
• •
Sir Norman Brookes,' president of the
Lawn Tennis Association of Australia,
has sat on that throne for 28 years. At
77 he’s calling it a day, but will remain
a Davis Cup selector.
Raymond Ewers, the Melbourne
sculptor, is to do a statue of Field-
Marshal Sir Thomas Blarney, to stand
opposite the Monash equestrian statue
in the King’s Domain; so Australia’s
First and Second World War leaders will
face each other almost in the shadow
of the Shrine of Remembrance. The
Blarney statue is to cost £15,000.
• •
Made his last forecast (it’s on a “Man
on the Land” page in this issue), Inigo
Jones was born an Englishman and
became a Queenslander at the age of two
—on a farm at Crohamhurst, 60 miles
north of Brisbane, from which area he
worked for the rest of his life. He
matriculated from Brisbane Grammar,
then, because in those days universities
could teach him little of his subject, he
plumped for the practical experience of a
cadetship under Clement Wragge. He
learnt all that the man Queensland will
always remember could teach him, and
on Wragge’s death, already with a reputa-
tion in his own right, continued his work.
Present writer first met the weatherbeaten
weather-seer when he was down in Sydney
from Crohamhurst, to see the 1950 deluge
which he had predicted as far back as
1944. Graziers, bankers, cattlemen and
other primary producers, and even —on
their buying side—big city stores, keenly
watched for his predictions. In 1942
primary producers formed the Long
Range Weather Forecasting Trust in
Sydney to support his work, and made
him research-director. As well as having
attached after his name a string of
scientific labels as long as a wet week,
he had written serials for the “Queens-
lander,” and numbered among his recrea-
tions gardening, painting, music and
breeding stud Jersey cattle. R. Lennox
Walker, a 29-year-old War II Digger
trained by Inigo, takes over, on the
master’s recommendation. A Sydneyite,
Walker was formerly a forestry road-
surveyor in N.S.W. and Queensland.
• •
Gone on in Melbourne, Sir Frederick
Eggleston, former Victorian Attorney-
General, Minister to the U.S., lawyer and
diplomat. Born in Melbourne, he won
the Bowen literary prize and the Harbison
Higinbotham prize for historical and
economic research; he specialised in
Asiatic history, which influenced the
Federal Government when it chose him
as Australia’s first Minister to China:
he was in Chungking for the greater part
of War 11. A big, cheerful man, with
lingering traces of an accent acquired at
a British public school (Leys), he was a
table-mate of Latham’s on the Australian
staff at the Peace Conference, after hav-
ing served in the A.I.F. His writing would
fill a fair length of shelf; the latest.
Reflections of an Australian Liberal, pub-
lished just over a year ago. His office
was a sort of gallery of Bulletin
cartoons, particularly Low’s. He was 80.
• •
Celebrated his ninetieth birthday at
Telopea, near Dundas (N.S.W.), Burton
Edward Sampson, who began school-
teaching in north-west N.S.W. in the
’eighties, later moving to Tamworth, and,
on retirement, was in charge of Bringelly
public school. Mr. Sampson was born
at Oakfield. near Mudgee. His grand-
parents were the first couple married
in the Kelso Church of England (the
“Bathurst” church mentioned in The
Letters of Rachel Henning), his grand-
mother being the first white girl born
west of the Dividing Range. His grand-
father was one of the early landholders
at Orange, the Duntryleague area being
bought from him by James Dalton.
Great-grandfather Sampson came to Aus-
tralia as a whaler early in the settlement’s
history with his own ship; he was
eventually lost in it. B. E. Sampson
himself today is a great-grandfather.
Which makes seven generations, includ-
ing the whaler.
President of Melbourne Legacy next
year will be Professor A. Amies, Dean of
Dentistry at Melbourne University. A
Tobruk rodent, he served with the
R.A.A.M.C. through the Western Desert
campaign and landed a C.M-G. in 1949,
Born in Perth, polished at the universi-
ties of Melbourne and Edinburgh, he is
the author of numerous publications on
his subject.
• •
“Fitz”; Ronald McCuaig, editor of the 1954
edition of Australian Poetry, has mustered 35
poets from pretty well all over Australia and
New Zealand. Twenty-seven men and eight
women are represented; only two (Mona Brand
and A. D. Hope) have not made a Bulletin
appearance.
In age McCuaig’s band of bards range from
Vivian Smith, a 21-year-old Tasmanian, and
Ray Mathew, a 25-year-old Sydneysider, to
Dame Mary Gilmore, 89 last August. Only
three others have passed 60 —Brian Vrepont
(72 ; real name Benjamin Truebridge), Harley
Matthews (65), and Peter Hopegood (63).
Another trio —Bill Harney, Bob Fitz Gerald and
Tom Inglis Moore —have passed the half-
century, but more than two-thirds of them
are in their thirties or forties.
About half the men saw service in War 11,
and one woman (Betty Riddell) was a war-
correspondent. Harley Matthews, Peter Hope-
good and Bill Harney were in the Kaiser’s
war. . .
Almost one-third of the poets in the collec-
tion earn their living by their pen or are
closely connected with the Inky Way: these
include Mary Gilmore, McCuaig himsell,
Douglas Stewart, Peter Hopegood, Kenneth
Mackenzie, David Rowbotham, lan Healy,
Peter Bladen, Geoffrey Dutton, Betty Riddell,
Nancy Keesing, Rosemary Dobson and Nan
McDonald. A quarter of them are pro-
fessors, lecturers or teachers or are otherwise
connected with education, these including A. D.
Hope, James McAulcy, W. Hart Smith, Tom
Inglis-Moore, Dorothy Auchterionie, R. D.
Murphy, Vivian Smith and Ray Mathew, though
the last-named has lately taken to clerking.
The rest are mixed. There are two librarians
(Hal Porter and Lex Banning), a pastoralist
(David Campbell), a wheatfarmer (E. O.
Schlunke), a vigneron (Harley Matthews), a
surveyor (Bob Fitz Gerald), a greenkeeper
(Roland Robinson), a cost-accountant (John
Blight), an estate-agent (lan Mudie), a retired
Native Affairs officer (Bill Harney), and a book-
seller (Brian Vrepont). Some of them, of
course, have tried their hands at a variety of
jobs.
Judith Wright was a secretary, Mona Brand
is not known to this scribe, and J. Gunn, a
newcomer to the poetic field, hails from
Queensland, where he’s believed to be on the
land.
• •
Bob Hynes (hereunder), who now deals
with mainly invisible amusers, was be-
fore the war very much in the field of
visible entertainment —he representing
N.S.W. at cricket between 1934-39; he’s
one of the very few to have bowled
Bradman for a duck. Having a yen
for radio - work, it was natural
he should get into it by way of
sports-commentating; when the War II
R.A.A.F. had finished with him he
joined the Macquarie network in Sydney.
From then on he shot up like a skied
sixer—within not much more than a year,
the network’s sales-manager; another
couple of years, g.-m. of station 4BC
COMMUNICATOR
in Brisbane; and now boss of the Com-
monwealth Broadcasting Corporation in
Queensland, of which 4BC is the main
outlet, and which covers some 80 per cent,
of the State’s population. Recently Hynes
finished erecting in Brisbane what are
recognised as the most modern broad-
casting facilities in the Commonwealth —
studios with floating floors and ceilings
(anti-vibration), and isolated walls of
three thicknesses. Rotary and golf for
pleasure.
Capping a golfer’s - dream year —in
which he won the British Open and
match-play championships—by taking
the Ampol prize at Yarra Yarra, Mel-
bourne, Peter Thomson has golfed about
from one country to another since, when
Victorian amateur champion, he turned
pro. at 20 in 1949, the geography includ-
ing Britain, the U.S., Canada, New Zea-
land, South Africa and the Philippines.
He won the Australian Open in 1951 (at
22), and has won the N.Z. Open three
times (1950, 1951, 1953). He was beaten
GOLFER
by one stroke, by American Lloyd Man-
grum, in the second 1952 Ampol tourney.
The year previous, at Harrogate (Eng.),
he tumed-in a “wonder” round of 62
nine strokes under par. Another nice
effort was his six under par in the final
round in helping Kel Nagle win this
year’s Canada Cup, Also this year
(Masters’ Tournament in England) he did
his first hole-in-one. Thomson has the
“concentration of Ben Hogan and the hit-
ting-power of Slamming Sammy Snead”
—assessment by Von Nida. Artist Moore
first met the champ, back-stage in
Dunedin (N.Z.), after Thomson had
enjoyed the Kiwi show. Next day
Thomson took the cast, all keen golfers,
out to see his trade —in the process win-
ning one of the N.Z. championships men-
tioned earlier. He leaves next month for
South Africa to play exhibition matches
with Bobby Locke.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Allen Robertson, M.D., noted
gynaecologist and obstetrician and, till three
months ago, on the Australian Cricket Board
of Control. Chairman of the board for many
years, he had been vice-president of the B.M.A.
in Victoria.
At Yunderup (W.A.), at 81, David Perciyal
Fienberg, pioneer of the Murchison district,
associated with Cue since 1896. For many
years he had been hon. secretary and organiser
of the annual Cue Reunion, attended by old-
timers of the Murchison district from all
parts of the State.
At Roma (Q.), at 69, Herbert Reginald
Richardson, who took his Bulletin nib-name,
“Herbert Dawson,” from the Dawson River,
in Western Queensland, near which he was
bom, on a cattle-station. A fine rider, with
beautiful hands on a horse, he always kept
one or two good stock-horses, and liked nothing
better than running scrub-cattle on moonlit
nights. From these wild rides came many of
his poems and articles published in The
Bulletin. Old Digger, he was seriously
wounded at Bullecourt.
At Wagga (N.S.W.), at 70, Archdeacon
Stanley Johnson West, after half a century in
the Church of England. The “Johnson" is
from his great-great-uncle. Rev. Richard
Johnson, the first Anglican priest in Australia
(he landed from the Sirius in 1788). The
Archdeacon was also a descendant of an early
surgeon, Major John West, who arrived in the
year of Waterloo. Yass, Cooma, Berridale,
Queanbeyan, Goulburn and Wagga remember
the Archdeacon’s devotion, charity and war-
activities, especially at Kapooka military camp,
where he erected and maintained two big huts.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 86, Sir Kenneth
Douglas, who practised law in Wellington tor
50 years till his retirement five years ago.
S. C. Mackenzie Douglas, M.C., of London,
an ex-officer of the Seaforth Highlanders,
succeeds to the title.
In Perth, at 39, Wing-Commander E. A.
Montague, R.A.A.F., senior administrative
officer of Western Area Headquarters at Pearce.
He joined the service in 1936 and served m
War II in Malaya and New Guinea, and witn
the First Tactical Air Force in Borneo.


STILL BREATHING!


ABORIGINALITIES
A PART from improved domestic and
hygienic conveniences in the shear-
ing game today, there is another signifi-
cant change which is becoming unwritten
law. At numerous sheds it is established
custom for men to bring their quota of
“He says this scene makes him sick!”
refreshments to the common pool, a
recognised weekly supply being a carton
of lager and a bottle of rum. The odd-
man-out is as lonely as a lost pup.
Whether or not this procedure is con-
ducive to efficiency, one thing is certain;
previously Bung got his chop only when
the shed cut-out; now the combination
of big money and long thirsts gives him
a cut before, during and after the shear-
ing. He is the joker who is really ringing
the sheds—“ Quo Vadis.”
x
* * ♦ ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: It was blazing hot on
the plains below Echuca and we turned
the sheep up a lane near Kanyapella and
let them drift to rest. Old Bob, driving
the tucker-van, boiled the billy and, with
two dogs out front to stop drifters, we
settled in the shade. “Yair,” old Bob, a
bom ear-basher, began, “I kin remember
when they had sixty pubs in Echuca an’
the boats used t’ ” Mat jumped up.
“Look, Bob,” he snapped, “all y’ got t’
remember is that there’s fifteen pubs there
now, every one of ’em full of
beer. We got five mile t’ go, we
can get ’em there by five, an’
that gives us an hour to get
among the fifteen before they
shut. So pack up an’ get
goin’.” Six minutes later the
leaders were turning into the
main road.
♦ ♦ ♦
“A.J.S.”; Admired a young
wild-turkey at Wialki (W.A.)
working a delightfully simple
racket. He parked himself
unobtrusively near the post of
a cocky’s ring-lock fence and
waited for grasshoppers to hit
the fence while in flight. Before
the half-dazed ’hoppers could
get their bearings again they
were well on the way down.
* * *
“Saaedi”: As I moved
through the reeds and grass
which bordered the big lagoon
I could hear coming from the
tangled vegetation the short,
squeaky calls of the golden-
headed fantail-warblers. These
stopped, as if turned off by a
tap, and I saw then a swamp-
harrier moving slowly in my
direction. As is customary with
this bird when beating a swamp,
he flew just above the reed-tops,
and so intent was he on his job
that he passed within a few feet of
where I stood. After about 10 minutes
the squeaky chorus started again, and
presently one of the warblers broke cover
and took off. At 100 ft. or so he hung
almost stationary, a tiny golden ball
suspended in the sky, and from that
observation-post he watched the move-
ments of the harrier, now some distance
away on the other side of the lagoon.
As the warbler watched, the harrier sud-
denly swung round to return. Immedi-
ately the scout gave a shrill cry which
straightway silenced every bird in the
vicinity, and he hurtled with amazing
speed to the ground. I watched for
another half-hour during which the
harrier, despite the most vigilant hunting,
failed to find a victim. He certainly
earns his cannibalistic tucker, that fowl.
“J.C.S.”: My New Australian neighbor
had a harrowing story to tell me. “Ever’
time she starts to warm up she cries,” he
said sadly. “An’ I only just buy her six
months ago. Twenty pounds, an’ now
she is no good. When she warm-up she
smoke an’ cries an’ cries. She is no
good an’ all my money is gone.
She cries an’ cries.” Investigation of his
stove-flue soon brought to light the seat
of his trouble. He’d bought a load of
mill-wood, most of it red-mahogany;
there’s nothing in the bush to gum-up a
chimney quicker. It leaves a thick deposit
like tar just inside the lip of the flue
where it meets the outside air. The
“crying” was this tarry substance oozing
out through the cracks of his stove where
the chimney narrows.
“V. J.H.”; There was a nest of
sergeant-ants (B. 29/9/’54) in gravel-soil
near my place, and when my daughter
arrived home screaming—she’d been
bitten, and was feverish for some hours
after —I had to clean it out. First thing
was to ’ find and kill the scouts
patrolling ceaselessly about 2ft. from the
nest-mouth. It was easy to find them —
just scratched around the 2in.-wide
hole with a stick and they came in to
fight at amazing speed. Then the shock-
troops came out of the hole, in waves of
four. One jumped more than 2ft. to the
“There might be something in this idea of reincarnation, after all, Tom.”
shovel-handle, rushed up and took hold
of my hand between the fingers, and
closed those powerful nippers. He took
some shifting, and the pain was agonising.
When I’d finished them off I dug the nest
out. It went straight down for about
3ft. At the bottom were four galleries,
each with nine or 10 eggs in it. Each
plastic-like container had an almost-full-
size ant in it, which seems to explain why
you never see a little one —they’re born
an inch long But there were dozens of
small reddish ants lying around the eggs,
I fancy they’re slaves to the warriors,
bred in the nest to take care of the eggs
and to forage for food at night.
* * * *
“Tidbinbilla”: Since the direction of
the earth’s axis in space is changing
continuously at a rate more than half
a degree per century, no one star enjoys
the designation “Pole Star” for more than
a few centuries (B. 3/11/’54). The
Great Pyramid of Egypt, believed to be
5000 years old, contained a corridor
parallel to the earth’s axis, leading from
the sepulchral tomb to the northern face
of the pyramid. This passage was
probably made for observing the star
Alpha Draconis, which was then the “Pole
Star,”'2s degrees away from the present
position of the Pole. This large dis-
placement is caused by precession of the
earth’s axis, not by any true motion of
the stars. Though moving at 20 miles
per second relative to the sun, the present
“Pole Star” is so far distant that it will
take about 70,000 years for its direction
to change by one degree.
* * * *
“Spin”; W.A, is talking about
establishing a base on Troughton Island,
off the Kimberley coast, thus making it
the most northerly inhabited part of the
State. It could be part of a plan to
police our Continental Shelf, When the
United Nations International Law Com-
mission last year ruled that each country
with a coastline had certain sovereign
rights over its shelf it added vastly to
the area under Australia’s control, since
the term “continental shelf” covers the
waters to a depth of 109 fathoms ; and
the rights include the exploring and
exploiting of natural resources, among
them pearl-fishing and, presumably, oil-
drilling. Our shelf goes out from Nor’-
West Cape more than half-way to Timor
and right across to New Guinea.
* * * *
“Sebak”: Frank Clune’s Dig (B.
27/10/’54) left me pondering over two
points concerning the Burke and Wills
expedition: (a) Burke, Wills and Gray
died of starvation or malnutrition through
inability to assimilate sufficient nourish-
OMENS OF CYCLONE
'T'ROPICAL Australia is nearing its
cyclone season, and residents in the
most affected parts, the North Queens-
land coast, are “battening down hatches'’
in preparation for those vast atmospheric
whirls which strike suddenly and often
cause great damage.
These spirally inflowing clockwise
winds, with destructive velocities of 60
to 100 miles per hour, are expected dur-
ing the months of December to April or
May, Their breeding-ground is the
Coral Sea, and moving west and south-
west they sweep in towards the coast with
increasing violence, and then either cross
the coast and become intense rain-
depressions, causing heavy flooding in
coastal streams as far south as N.S.W. or
recurve seawards to pass harmlessly away
to the Pacific Ocean.
While a steadily falling barometer, with
an oppressive stillness in the air, is a
certain sign of trouble in store, there are
other indications still further in advance.
The sea is always ahead of a cyclone,
and a heavy swell setting in from the
north-east presages a gale within 24
hours; if the direction of the swell
changes to east or south-east the storm
is recurving seawards and the body of it
will not blow home on the land. Should
the line of swell come first from the south-
ward, there is no danger to fear, no
matter how threatening the other weather-
signs.
The sky also tells its part of the story.
A thin cirrus haze precedes the cyclone,
causing solar or lunar haloes, and is
followed by true cirrus, slowly deepening
into the heavy rainstorm of the
disturbance. >
A wind from the east or south-east,
steady in direction and increasing in force,
indicates that the observer is in the direct
path of the disturbance. Should the gale
drop suddenly to a calm, and soon after-
wards blow with equal violence from the
opposite direction, the observer has passed
through the very “eye” of the storm.
A change of wind to south or south-
west shows that the storm-centre has
passed southwards ; a change to the north
or north-west indicates the storm-centre
having passed north of the observer and
travelled away inland.
It is not difficult to pinpoint a cyclone
and watch it as it moves, but to predict
with surety which way it is going is a
thorny problem which Australian
meteorologists are anxiously trying to
solve. Reasonable certainty of where it
would be in even 24 hours would be the
means of saving many lives and much
valuable property.
W. E. Mulholland.
ment from blackfellows’ tucker, while
King probably would have died also if
he had not been young and strong; yet
Burke died with a loaded pistol in his
hand and King still had a rifle and
ammunition when, the sole survivor, he
lived with blacks. ( b ) When King did
shoot game for his declining leaders it
was always a crow. On the other hand,
Howitt, leader of the expedition that
found King, “shot several wild crested-
pigeons along the creek.” Well, why
didn’t King shoot wild pigeons instead
of crows? If he chose crows because
they were easier to shoot, then Kelly
has learnt a mighty lot in the meantime.
NANCY
She walked sedately-circumspect along
The bridle track, progressing mincingly;
Ears pricked, head tossed as if the magpie’s song,
Gracing the early day with melody,
Invoked her approbation to prolong
The charm: old Bluey whimpered eagerly
Behind her heels, anxious to be among
The ranges, where the scrubbers used to be,
Where the wild, whistling wallaroos belong.
Her dancing, glancing, chestnut mane tossed
free,
Fired by the rising sun; the cockatoo,
Screeching across the flat discordantly,
Perturbed her not at all, quite well she knew,
At morn and eve, that raucous voice; lightly
She turned her head and nodded where the Too,
In white-waistcoated curiosity,
Sat upright, unafraid, much as one who
Meets, greets a chance acquaintance casually.
Disdainfully she splashed the creek between
Smooth stones; breasted the foothills which
retire
Aspiring to the range; but we had been
Searching till late, when, near the boundary wire,
We found that last, lone scrubber, tall and mean,
Where recent rains, following last year’s fire.
Mantling the lower slopes with tender green,
Tempted him from his usual haunts up higher,
Edging the mountain scrubs, where feed was
Jean.
He raced away towards the range alone;
But, resolute, she more than matched his rate;
Almost he beat her, spurning flying stone;
But still she turned him, shouldering his weight—
Six hundred pounds of hard muscle and bone.
But when we yarded him I shut the gate.
Watching her —fire all gone and badly blown;
Heaving, distressed, in near-exhausted state —
And cursed the long-horned roan resentfully.
She stood awhile, flanks heaving, legs wide-
spread.
Old Bluey, who had done more than his share,
Chopping at flying heels, dogging at head
When he bailed up, panting beside her there;
Her heaving ceased and, courage, fire inbred,
She raised her head with a convincing stare
At our joint prey, sullen, dispirited.
Bluey, too, watching, tired but wise and ware,
Strong teeth, bared reminiscently, stained red.
As, later, under the sun’s declining ray,
I rubbed her down, shivering delightedly,
She turned to nip my hand in gentle play;
And, as I slipped the bridle, set her free,
Stood nickering in her accustomed way,
Bending her head to Bluey at my knee,
In short, silent converse, as who should say
“We have done a good job to-day we three,”
Nuzzling my arm before she turned away.
N.S.W.
HUI TE RANGIORA.


Tm convinced CAPSTAN
is better tobacco /*
“For me the Capstan blend has all the qualities
to make my smoking enjoyment complete.
“Capstan’s own blend of fine Virginia leaf
maintains a consistent standard—fine flavour,
fresh fragrance and smooth smoking.”
Ask everywhere for—CAPSTAN
4
CAPSTAN
_ better tobacco
&P,
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT
VIRGINIA TOBACCO
205D.i0.54
A BANKING TRADITION
9 . . down through the Changing Years
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
Of SYDNEY LIMITED
EFFICIENT WISE
AND FRIENDLY
SERVICE
of the Bank’s customers are following in the footsteps
of their forebears. Many have succeeded to, and further
developed, industries and commercial activities founded by earlier
generations. These men, as did their fathers, regard the Bank as
their friend.
Many other customers are the first of their families to use
the Bank’s service. They, too, find that it is efficient, wise and
friendly.
To-day, we of this Bank, owned and staffed by Australians,
extend to those who plan to further develop industry the same
traditionally helpful service—and the benefit of our long experience.
Head Office, or the Manager of our branch nearest to you,
will gladly give particulars of our service.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which Is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
'THE councillor complained bitterly
about burnt-out bath-heaters leaning
against trees here and there on the high-
way to Kalgoorlie. He thundered about
eyesores and visitors, and got as far as
having warning notices put up, threaten-
ing vengeance upon depositors of rubbish.
Then someone whispered in his ear. The
bath-heaters were signposts to two-up
schools on certain days.—“A.J.S.”
• * * ♦
“Wire-buster”: That old-time beer-
bottle with the indented bottom (B.
3/11/ ’54) made the ideal bottom-cup for
the cocky’s wooden gate ; it was simpjy
buried neck-first in the ground beside
the post. Even a heavy gate would
swing easily in that glass cup.
• * * »
“Bogaduck”: Heaviest Australian bird
on the wing (B. 10/11/ ’54)? An old cob
(cock) black swan wins easily with a
weight of from 18 to 221 b. The wild-
turkey is much lighter and so are the
brolga and pelican. The world’s heaviest
bird capable of flight is the giant
trumpeter-swan of America, the cobs
often weighing 301 b. This magnificent
bird is now close to extinction ; there’s
only some 200 left. They have been dying
out for years from some mysterious
sickness. Experts were puzzled until
quite recently, when the trouble was
tracked to lead-poisoning. On the
swamps where the giant nests, ducks
have been shot for nearly a century, and
pellets of shot are now scattered through-
out the mud under the swamp-water.
The swans grope in this mud for food,
pick up lead-pellets, which are ground
up by their gizzards—and die from
poisoning.
“C.A.A.”; Eighteen young foxes in
two litters of 10 and eight were found
by vermin-inspectors near Geelong (Vic.).
The pups were in separate burrows close
together on the same timber-reserve, but
there was no sign of the parents. As
it is usual for a litter to comprise four
or, at the most, five, perhaps the
explanation is that some of them were
adopted.
♦ * * *
“Old-timer”: The power both
muscular and aerial —with which Nature
"It’s designed for a low third-party insurance-rate."
endows most creatures is never better
illustrated than in watching salmon
leaping up the falls in Scottish rivers,
porpoises pacing it with a modem ship,
or the effortless ease with which
mollyhawks overtake a liner doing 25
knots across the Bight. The force with
which a 51b. salmon comes out of the
pool at the foot of a fall has to be
seen to be believed—l wouldn’t like one
to hit me in full flight—and though a
fish may make a dozen jumps and fail
to make the top, expending enormous
energy each time, far from being
exhausted it will keep on. The expert
who showed me the spectacle said a fish
either made the jump or died where it
failed. He further assured me that the
leap is a spontaneous effort, rather as a
grasshopper kicks off, and not, as one
might suppose, the long run through the
water which the porpoise makes between
leaps. Mollyhawks, on the other hand,
use the air-currents. It is rare to see them
flap a wing, and with their soaring glide
they can come from a mile behind and
pass the speeding ship at will, wheel
away, fall back and come on again,
merely with a turn of the tail or the dip
of a wing-tip.
♦ * * *
“Sackfair”: That shipbuilder who
sheeted a yacht with stainless-steel and
monel-metal plates, then struck trouble
with the stainless-steel (B. 27 /10/’54),
isn’t the only one the immaculate metal
has left in the lurch. A firm of kitchen-
ware manufacturers conceived the idea
of stainless-steel cooking-utensils. The
first batch was on the market before the
discovery was made that stainless-steel
would not conduct heat. However, the
pot-maker’s loss was the engineer’s gain:
stainless-steel is now used extensively in
machinery where friction-points are
likely to become overheated.
* * * *
“Peter Simple”: The kooka who con-
siders himself to be permanently on our
household’s ration-strength viewed with
a bored air the foot-long snake whose
spinal-column I’d just massaged with a
waddy. Even Joe’s final thrashings-
about wouldn’t bring Jack off the top of
the clothes-post. When I
threw a piece of meat near
the snake the old rascal
swooped down on it and
then went back to his
station again. Finally I
killed the snake and cut it
into small pieces, thinking
that perhaps Jack had be-
come accustomed to that
kind of diet; he still
refused to be tempted.
Finally I threw the head
into the air hoping he
would catch it in flight as
he does a piece of meat;
instead, he flew away. My
wife says this particular
kooka was merely paying
me out for a joke I tried
to put over him last
summer by tying a long
piece of string to a small
dead snake and dragging
it across the lawn and
trying to trick him into
believing it was still alive.
The old. reprobate never
batted an eyelid then ; it
could well be he’s since sworn off
snake.
* * ♦ *
“Horseshoe Bar”: The owner of
Willigobung station (N.S.W.), recently
given over to closer - settlement, is
supposed to have called his next place
Nevagobung, which is all as may be. In
later days, a soldier-settler who drew a
block that was mostly whipstick-mallee
stocked with bogis wanted to call it
Lingeranddi, but the powers-that-were
lacked the necessary sense of humor to
allow it.
SUMMER VINEYARD
A million green butterflies
Have lighted on the bare
Vineyard slopes, Blindly they grope
In the air with their soft antennae.
They cannot fly away:
Caught until the autumn comes
With red and yellow fires of frost
Slow-burning down the rows.
The butterflies, unwilling captives,
Turn their wings to every wind that blows.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


fkuth in Ihc
Future
m
-■
torn
Have you ever gone back to the scenes of your
childhood after many years and been surprised at
the changes Time has made?
It is not at all as kind Memory had left it.
That’s what Time does. Progress comes in
cycles, and it is true with nations as much as with
places and people.
A classic example is what happened after gold
was discovered in Australia in 1851. Within 20
years the population had risen by 1,150,000, or by
nearly 300 per cent.
Then came the first great burst in agricultural
development; roads and railways were built, ports
were improved, water conservation was started—
and Australia was on its way.
It has been the history of man that where the
earth yields abundant richness—whether in
minerals, crops, or herbage for stock —there shall
the numbers gather.
At the turn of the century, with mines
flourishing in Western Australia, Victoria, New
South Wales and Queensland, gold was king. The
parallel years were prosperous, for their time, in an
infant Commonwealth, By the beginning of the
First World War, Australia had a population of
close on 5,000,000.
That era has passed. Gold has subsided, but
not before it had contributed something like £B6O
million in production value to the national
economy since 1851.
It has left Australia stronger by 100 years,
and on the threshold of a new and much more
dazzling era, in which atomic energy will revolu-
tionise the world.
And this country has proved deposits of
uranium to fuel it. What an impetus that is going
to give in the years just ahead!
Gold is still precious, but it is a mere solid
that is fashioned into a jewel, or stored in vaults
to back a country’s currency. Atomic-age minerals
will power man’s attainment to heights he had
never dreamt of scaling.
There, as I see it, you have some ratio in values
of the past and the future.
7
■W
•swsv
sSS&
'THE ALL-BRITISH
finwgy^ewoH
the finest Pens-the Greatest Value
| o | | I I |T E V 1 > T I CO. IT o • 10*808
S. W. RAMSAY
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
N? 58
60
OTHER MODELS
Prices from
25/- to 65/-
Business. Rollery. Etc.
W.A. Oil Gloom
Gloom last weekend replaced
boom on the Stock Exchanges
where the Ampol companies were
concerned. Following an expert’s
statement that the Rough Range
No. 1 well “is not a too attrac-
tive business proposition,” the
drop in Ampol Exploration
scrip amounted to 14s. (taking
the shares down to 465.), repre-
senting a market flop of £2B
million. Monday’s price was 51s.
But what geologist Cunning-
ham has said should cause no
surprise. One producing well
hardly constitutes a commercial
oilfield, and the overseas experi-
ence is that about eight dry wells
are drilled for every producer.
“A great deal of importance
has been placed on the drilling
at Rough Range, which is a rela-
tively minor geological feature
of W.A.,” Mr. Cunningham said.
He pointed out that Wapet was
prospecting from the Kimberleys
to near Perth. The Rough Range
area was chosen because it was
more accessible than other areas,
and drilling there was easier.
“No one expected to find oil
there in the first well,” Mr.
Cunningham added.
The facts appear to be that the
lucky striking of oil “first-pop,”
and at shallow depth, in Rough
Range No. 1 raised speculators’
hopes unduly, and the failure to
find more oil just as easily has
been a sharp disappointment.
The Kimberleys area is
regarded by some as a more
attractive oil-prospect than
Rough Range, and Wapet’s
Grant Range drilling (down to
1703 ft. nine days ago) will be
watched with particular interest.
As Mr. Cunningham said last
week, “Rough Range is only a
small part of the likely oil-
bearing country in Australia. ’
The principal value of Rough
Range No. 1 is that it has proved
that there is some oil in the
Commonwealth.
Structure of Rough Range
From L. Owen: At a press
conference, held in Sydney’s
Australia Hotel on November 16,
George Magee Cunningham, a
well-known petroleum-geologist,
with a lifetime of world-wide
experience in the oil game behind
him, gave a lucid and candid
resume of the geological reason-
ing which led to the location of
Rough Range wells Nos. 1,2, 3,
4 and 5; his talk included a
wealth of detail rarely available
on such occasions.
Mr.-Cunningham is now presi-
dent of American Overseas
Petroleum—a Caltex affiliate
which mothers the search for
new oilfields in the Eastern
Hemisphere, outside the estab-
lished producing areas of Arabia,
Bahrein and Sumatra ; he is also
a director of West Australian
Petroleum, and this is his third
visit to Australia.
Starting with fundamental con-
ceptions of world tectonics, an
outline of the surface geological
structure of the Exmouth Gulf
area was given, and it was shown
how this structure became
modified at depth. The progres-
sive changes in the interpretation
of the structure, as influenced by
the factual data obtained from
drilling and seismic exploration,
were illustrated in a series of
charts.
When the discovery-well at
Rough Range struck 17ft. of oil-
impregnated sandstone at 3605 ft.
it was considered to be down-
dip from the maximum develop-
ment of the hoped-for “pool.”
No. 2 well was located, there-
fore, on what was considered,
from surface evidence, to be the
“structural high” of the Rough
Range dome. This belief was
strengthened when the first
“marker” stratum in No. 2 well
was struck 100 ft. above its posi-
tion in No. 1. On going deeper,
however, the cap-rock of the
sandstone which had produced
oil in No. 1 well was found to
be 47ft. lower, and oil-free salt-
water only was recovered.
The site of No. 2 well was
6400 ft. to the south-west of
No. 1 well, and, as the shale
overlying the oil-sand between
approximately 1400 ft, and
3400 ft. below sea-level was
thickening southward, the infer-
ence was that it would thin out
north of No. 1 well and thus
yield a, structural or strati-
graphical “high” in that
direction.
No. 3 well was located, there-
fore, 3000 ft. north-east of No. 1
well. As in the case of No. 2,
the first marker-bed was encoun-
tered higher than in No. 1, but
the cap-rock of the oil-sand was
struck 126 ft. lower and contained
only salt-water. It was now
obvious that, at least, the north-
south extent of the crestal part of
the dome, at the oil-sand horizon,
which might harbor oil was
limited. The distance between
locations was again reduced to
meet this new factor, and No. 4
well was placed 1680 ft. almost
south of No. 1 well. At 3592 ft.
below the surface no oil-sand
had been reached, but salt-water
was struck at 3728 ft,, and the
well was abandoned at 3760 ft.
It was realised, at the time
when the location of No. 4 well
was being discussed, that the
evidence from cores (apparently
not oriented) and from seismic
data allowed of alternate inter-
pretations, and that all the
known facts could be explained
by the assumption that the major
axis of the Rough Range dome
in the lower Cretaceous ran
either approximately north-south
or north-east-south-west. No. 4
had disproved the first
hypothesis, and No. 5 well was
located on the second. It was
placed 2034 ft. west-south-west
of No. 1 well, and drilling was
commenced on November 10;
it had reached the depth of
1440 ft. in shale at 7 a.m. on
November 16, and all appeared
to be going well. IVIr. Cun-
ningham preferred not to make
any forecast as to the chances of
success in this well, but, like all
the other Wapet wells, it had
been located after all the avail-
able data had been studied from
every angle, and it was being
drilled in a sincere effort to
strike oil.
It might prove to be dry,
possibly owing to the restriction
of the oil found in No. 1 well
to an isolated pocket by faulting.
The structure of the region, at
depth, offered many problems.
“Sorry we can't help you, old man. Try a ticket
in the lottery."
and few clues were available for
their solution.
Mr. Cunningham said that the
amount of publicity given to
Wapet operations was in marked
contrast to the secrecy with
which oil companies overseas
cloaked their operations. He
felt that at Exmouth Gulf they
were working in a goldfish-bowl.
All the information was avail-
able immediately to the press,
and any rumors of oil-strikes
could safely be disregarded.
Mr. Cunningham did not deal
with the possibility, which has
been put forward in these
columns, that the oil-impregnated
sand encountered in Rough
Range No. 1 well at 3605 ft.
might have been the result of a
seepage of oil through faults to
the Permian surface, where it
was inspissated and preserved by
the deposition of Cretaceous
sandstones. This would account
for the failure of wells 2, 3 and
4 to strike oil, and for the
existence of what is, apparently,
a stratigraphic “high” at the
seep. Under this hypothesis.
No. 5 may strike oil if it is
situated on the fault-zone which
fed the oil to the No. 1 sand.
At best, however, the oil-
distribution will be of the “shoe-
string” type, and big production.
in my opinion, is unlikely from
the 3600 ft, sand.
Be that as it may, there can
be no question as to the com-
petence and thoroughness with
which the search for oil by
Wapet is being carried out, but
I am convinced that its ultimate
success will be at depth and not
at the “discovery” horizon of
Rough Range No, 1 well.
Associated Freney
With the Wapet bore at
Grant Range (W.A.) already
down to 1703 ft. (an increase of
1002 ft. in a week) nine days
ago, there will be increasing
interest in the shares of Associ-
ated Freney, which has a
picked area, embracing the
“Nerrima Dome” location, 40
miles away.
The importance which Wapet
attaches to the area may be
gauged to some extent by the
fact that a drilling rig has been
set up at Grant Range, which is a
distance of 800 miles from
Exmouth Gulf, where its drilling
activity originated. In some eyes
the Kimberley region is regarded
as the best-looking oil-prospect
in W.A. Obviously the Freney
people, with whatever justifica-
tion, thought so. Their permit-
areas inland from Derby were
their choice when given first
pick by the W-A. Government
in the 1930’5.
The Nerrima area of Associ-
ated Freney is 40 miles south-
east of Grant Range No. 1,


Would you like good
whisky better?
If whisky is really good,
made in Scotland—-can one
ask for anything more ? We
think you can —that it
should bear the name
‘Bell’s’. We are independent
distillers. Independent to
go on making the finest
whisky our long experience
can produce. Buy a bottle
of Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
Taste it critically and see if
it is not Scotch Whisky at
its spirited best.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BEIL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur BelldcSons Ltd. ,Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
10
»•
m
y
0
BELtS
\4 cot %
!»» SCOTCH WHlSf'J*
oiiriuip *"o bl V ic, * d
' i IN “ICOTIAMO
jIHICOTtAMP jL,
Distillers «•« s CO]
ISTABUSHIO
XOOUCT
FVW*
! r c »
Following a
GOOD EXAMPLE
w.th McCormick
INTERNATIONAL
TRACTORS AND MATCHED EQUIPMENT
Follow the lead of successful farmers and invest in McCormick
International tractors and matched equipment. They've proved
that matched equipment pays off with more acres covered per
gallon of fuel. The two tractors illustrated above are the Super
AW-6 and AWD-6, two from the full line of six McCormick
International tractors, all with a full line of equipment matched
in size, weight and speed of operation. See your local I.H.
dealer today for more information.
The widest choice of
Australian manufactured
tractors to choose from!
Six models all with a
full line of matched
equipment! AOS-6 for
orchards and vineyards
AOS-6 Standard for mixed
farms. Super AW-6 and
AWD-6 for wheat areas,
and two Farmalls for row
crops and tall crops.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VICTORIA). WORKS: DANDENONG AND GEELONG
INTERNATIONAL
Mi
HARVESTER
BUILDER OF ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT
FOR ESSENTIAL WORK
OL 4M-M
♦
Freney has another area in be-
tween —about 20 miles south-
east of Grant Range. In addi-
tion, it has a third area 25 miles
to the north-east of Grant
Range No. 1, which is almost
exactly in lat. 18° south, long.
124° east.
Associated Freney now has
its new drilling-equipment on
the Nerrima site, and it should
be able to keep to its original
drilling time-table —that is, a
start in January, 1955.
Up to World War II the old
Freney Kimberley co. had bored
to a depth of 4271 ft. at
Nerrima without striking oil.
Boring operations were aban-
doned when, during the last
war, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment requisitioned part of
its plant and equipment for
defence purposes.
Associated Freney has an
issue of 8,000,000 10s. shares,
of which 950,000 were issued
fully-paid to Freney Kimberley
Oil Co. (1932), N.L., and
300.000 f.-p. to Associated Aus-
tralian Oilfields, N.L.
An issue of 6,750,000 con-
tribs. was made, most of them
in the first instance to Freney
Kimberley and Associated Aus-
tralian Oilfields’ shareholders.
(Assuming that Freney Kim-
berley took up the 50,000 con-
tribs. which were offered to it,
it owns a million 10s. shares,
mostly fully-paid, in Associated
Freney. Freney Kimberley
itself has an issued capital of
1.500.000 6s. shares, of which
970.000 are called to Is.)
In the sharemarket Associated
Freney contribs. have been
selling at 12s. to give the
Nerrima-p/w.v prospect a market-
value of about £5 million. It is a
comparatively interesting
gamble, as these things go.
Freney Kimberley contribs. at
7s. seem cheaper, but are less
active as a market stock.
W. C. Stevens (Holdings)
As forecast on this page before
the accounts closed on June 30,
W. C. Stevens Pty., Ltd., operat-
ing co. for W. C. Stevens (Hold-
ings), Ltd., had a record year.
Profit was £85,216 after provid-
ing £28,926 for depreciation and
£50,750 for taxation. The net
figure was equal to 23 p.c. on the
holding co.’s capital, and the
10 p.c. div, was an easy matter.
Since June 30 production and
sales show an improvement. The
co. has two manufacturing
divisions: automotive (the largest
manufacturer of exhaust-systems
in Australia) and refrigeration
(making sheet-metal cabinet
parts for the Crosley refrigerator
and components for the Kirby
refrigerator sealed-units, which
are used by manufacturers
throughout Australia).
If the business continues to
expand it is possible that later
on there may be a request to
shareholders for more capital.
Last sale of the £1 ords. was
at 355., to yield about 6 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div, basis.
Duly and Hansford, Ltd.
A big expansion programme
for the manufacture of auto-
motive parts was outlined by the
chairman of Duly and Hansford
(Sydney) in his address to share-
holders.
The co. is well connected as
a supplier of components to
General Motors-Holden’s and
other major car-distributors, and
from its six-acre plant at
Marrickville (N.S.W.) turns out
as well a comprehensive range of
its own Dufor-brand parts for
distribution throughout Aus-
tralia and beyond—to South
Africa, New Zealand and the
Far East. The current high level
of activity in the motor industry,
coupled with plans by G.M.-H.
and others to boost local produc-
tion, should provide an assured
present demand for the co.’s
output. Turnover for the first
three months of the current term
is 23 p.c. above the correspond-
ing period of last year.
Last term increased deprecia-
£j on ( up £2658, to £42,281) and
tax-provision (£21,000 higher at
kept profit at £103,841
_only £716 more than the
previous year despite turnover
10 p.c. greater. Earnings repre-
sented 12.4 p.c. on paid capital,
or 8.6 p.c. on total shareholders’
funds (£837,221 capital and
£368,133 reserves combined), as
against 15.4 p.c. on smaller
capital (or 10-3 .total
- s b a re-capital
»- . .
oiSy ote?
e r
me closing quarter. iNexiyeai
£
on £*
and buildings.
Shares have a net asset back-
ing of 295. in the £l. At 325. in
the sharemarket the return is
6.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribution,
C.S.R. Chemicals
c.SR. Chemicals Pty., Ltd.
< owned by CSR and I he , Di j:
tillers Co., Ltd., of England)
applied last year f or tariff-
protection on cellulose acetate
flake, one of its important
products. Relative costs in Aus-
tralia and in the United King-
dom have altered greatly since
this project was undertaken,
and costs, at present rates of
production, are considerably
greater than in the United King-
dom.
The Tariff Board has advised
that no assistance be given
to the industry on economic
grounds, but if the Gov-
ernment considered the mdusg
®! ° then ass i s tance should
tbe f orm c f a bounty of
in'd a oound The Government
no asSncT is
“5L? 1 " n ° assistance
® ’ .. . _ ,
Courtaulds (Australia), Ltd
which spins C.b.R. a ,. e , 1 ,-
acetate rayon yarn, applied
assistance at the same time, and,
m its the B
recommended ai bounty on yarn
of «. P°^ e " ra^
costs of raw materials, excluding
flake. This recommendation is
being put into effect by the Gov-
ernment, but the assistance (says
rSRI does not allow
Courtouldsto get a reasonable
share of the Australian market,
The cellulose acetate section
of C.S.R.’s Rhodes (N.S.W.)
factory w Bar b e as
plant is declared to b _
modern and as
JMASS
by the current low demand and
the high cost-level in Australia.
Sales of other chemicals mar-
keted b the c.S.R. increased
during the past six months,
owing to the growing demand
£ or ] aC q Uer solvents, the capacity
Q f tb is section of the Lane Cove
p j ant j s being increased. At the
Rhodes factory a plant for the
production of polystyrene, a
p i asdc moulding compound, is
in cour se of erection, and
s hould be in production by the
end of the year. A protective
duty on polystyrene of 1\ p.c.
British, 20 p.c. general has been
introduced.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
TOdB
*2^
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executof
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet— “ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
E. H. Way {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E,
{Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bond. J. R. FavielU
£. B. Fleming. G. B. Kateij,
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland,
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart^
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.75.15
The WIE CAT
COLUMN
McPherson’s, Ltd.
MANUFACTURERS of machine-
-1 1 tools, bolts and nuts, rivets, dog-
spikes, electrical ironwork and pumps,
and distributors of workshop equipment,
tools of trade and general engineering
supplies, McPherson’s, Ltd,, in its last
term showed a record profit from a turn-
over which did not quite reach the high
level of 1951-52. The increase in profit
was mainly the result of reductions in
costs, though lower company-taxes
helped.
McPherson’s has three factories in
Victoria and one in N.S.W. It has ware-
houses in (the five mainland States. There
are four subsidiaries —Patience and
Nicholson, Ltd. (making twist-drills,
taps and dies at Maryborough, Vic.),
Tool Equipment Co. Pty., Ltd. (taps and
dies, milling-cutters, reamers, etc., Syd-
ney), Ajax Bolt and Rivet Co., Ltd.
(Wellington, N.Z.), F. W. Hercus Mfg.
Co., Ltd. (machine-tools, Adelaide).
It has “substantial holdings” in Hard
Metals Pty., Ltd. (tungsten carbide,
Sydney), Wiltshire File Co. Pty,, Ltd.
(files and table-knives, Tottenham, Vic.),
Australian Abrasives Pty., Ltd, (Sydney),
Renolds Chains (Aust.) Pty., Ltd. (trans-
mission-chains, Benalla, Vic.).
The parent’s revenue and outgo figures
are compared in this table:
Revenue— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Sales .. £10,391,411 £9,626,958 £10,111,204
Divs. subsids. 20,188 27,829 21,393
Divs. associates,
etc, .. 6,553 6,298 13,546
Total .. £10,418,102 £9,661,085 £10,146,143
Outgo—•
Exes., etc.*.. 9,411,322 8,670,988 9,016,494
Depreciation.. 130,835 120,977 99,170
Tax provision 394,300 893,800 350,000
Total . , £9,936,457 £9,185,765 £9,465,664
Net profit . . 481,645 475,320 680,479
* Includes cost of goods sold.
Individual sales, up 10 p.c. on the pre-
ceding year, were a record, reflecting, as
chairman S. B. Holder says, “the general
expansion of activity throughout the en-
gineering world, particularly in the second
half of the year under review.” Stocks
were “reasonably easy to obtain.”
The rate of gross profit on sales lifted,
after declining for some years. This made
the higher net profit possible; —-
Parent Only.
f -Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. “E” Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1948.. 257,374 11 8 = 106,232 151,142 1,419,507
Excess tax provision, £lBl3 .. 1,421,320
From specific reserves, £30,723 .. 1,452,503
Bonus from associate, £6390 .. .. 1,458,483
1949.. 262,004 13 10 = 132,845 129,159 1,587,592
Excess tax provision, £2816 .. 1,590,408
From specific reserves, £2OB .. 1,590,616
1950.. 301,574 15 10 = 184,529 167,045 1,757,661
1951.. 429,235 15 10 = 206,788 222,447 1,980,108
Excess tax provision, £47,250 .. 2,027,358
Loss sale assets, £825 .. .. 2,026,533
1952.. 481,645 15 10 = 231,779 249,866 2,276,401
Profit sale shares, £16,516 .. .. 2,292,917
Bonus from associate, £7770 .. .. 2,800,687
1953.. 475,320 15 10 = 304,209 171,111 2,471,798
Tax overprovided, £87,743 .. .. 2,559,541
1954.. 680,479 16 11 = 333,726 846,758 2,906,294
The improvement was not really as great
as suggested there. In 1952-53 there was
an overprovision of £87,743 for income-
tax ; so that this year’s £680,479 profit
really compares with £563,063 in the
preceding term.
Readjusting tax, 1953-54 net profit was
£117,416 higher, after setting aside
£99,170 for depreciation (down £21,807)
and £350,000 for taxation (up £43,943),
The net £680,479 was equal to 23 p.c. on
total capital, compared with 19.1, 21.5,
21.6, 23.5 and 20.1 p.c. back to 1949.
There was a lift of 1 p.c. in both div.-
rates. (The “E” ords. are held by em-
ployees.) After paying the higher div.,
reserves benefited by more than the div.
called for. They now stand at £2,906,294,
which is nearing the capital-total.
The parent’s share in the combined net
profits of the subsidiaries last year was
equal to 13.1 p.c. on the capital invested.
The holding appears at close to par-
value in the accounts. The £291,588
holding “in other cos.” yielded about
4.5 p.c. in divs. last year. Renold Chains
is now making a profit. All the associated
cos. have had “satisfactory years.”
The great expansion in the co.’s activi-
ties continues. In the decade since con-
version to a public co. (the business will
celebrate its centenary in 1960) capital
has grown from £782,899 to £2,951,690,
and all the extra has been profitably
employed. Pump-works are to be
enlarged, and a warehouse is going up
in Brisbane. Other warehouses are being
enlarged. Balance-sheet figures show the
trend of affairs:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £2,287,989 £2,951.690 £2,951,690
Reserves .. .. 2,276,401 2,471,798 2,906,294
Bank overdraft .. 1,225,299 10,407
Creditors .. .. 744,710 898,511 542,704
Owing to subsid... 28,365 21,663 25,357
Tax provision .. 356,262 393,625 350,000
Final div. .. 231,779 804,209 333,726
£7,100,805 £6,551,903 £7,109,831
Freeholds .. .. 580,486 608,995 795.297
Plant, etc. .. 656,789 687,334 716,215
Shares in subaid... 334,352 855,172 355,172
Other shares .. 248,777 256,548 291,588
Stocks .. . . 3,210,473 3,106,689 2,783,943
Debtors ~ .. 2,038,796 1,509,596 1,702,467
Owing by subsid... 29,886 25,995 41,042
Cash and bonds .. 1,246 1,624 364,107
£7,100,805 £0,551,903 £7,109,831
There was a reduction of £322,696 in
stock-values, the major assets item.
Debtors, on the other hand, moved up
£252,871. The finances are extremely
liquid, despite a net outlay of £215,183
on fixed assets during the year. There
is a holding of £364,107 of cash and
Consols in addition to the semi-liquids,
debtors and stocks.
A capital outlay of more than half a
million pounds is expected during the
next two or three years. On current
figures it could be financed out of
profits.
A considerable increase in most pro-
duction is expected during 1954-55,
despite a scarcity of Australian steel,
which has just risen in price. The direc-
tors “look forward with confidence to a
satisfactory result in the present financial
year.”
The sharemarket prices the £1 ords. at
445. 6d., to yield a shade under 5 p.c. on
an 11 p.c. div. basis. Capital and div.
are well protected. On book-values net
tangibles are equal to 41s, per £1 ord.
stock-unit, and the div. was more than
twice-covered by last year’s showing.
R. B. Davies Industries, Ltd.
'THOUGH turnover recovered con-
siderably last term, following the
setback in the building industry during
the preceding two years, the co. is still
looking for customers. It and its subsi-
diaries are modernly and efficiently
tooled, and jointly represent the biggest
mass-producer of builders’ hardware in
the Commonwealth. Thus, though the
board reports that “the labor position has
become somewhat more difficult,” pro-
duction has kept pace with sales. The
co.’s plant and machinery has been well
maintained, and, in keeping with the
traditional policy, more labor-saving
automatic machinery is under considera-
tion.
The original R. B. Davies enterprise
began in Sydney in 1923 as a manu-
facturers’ agency. In 1929 manufactur-
ing on its own account was begun
in Annandale, and transferred to
Marrickville in 1935. During .World
War II an annexe was set up to
make Mills-bombs, fuses and anti-
tank grenades, with high efficiency in
output. The present holding co. was
formed in 1950, when it took over several
operating cos. and placed them under
one ownership.
The operating subsidiaries now are:
R. B. Davies Pty., Ltd. (makers and
marketers of builders’ hardware); Daw
Pty., Ltd. (manufacturers of steel butt-
hinges for R. B. Davies Pty., Ltd.); R. B.
Davies (Trading) Pty., Etd. (dealers in
scrap and salvage materials, etc.); R. B.
Davies (Export) Pty., Etd. (which has
overseas distribution arrangements in
Africa, the West Indies, New Zealand, the
Pacific Islands and parts of Asia); B. B.
Davies (Plastics) Pty., Etd. (makers of
plastic door-furniture, levers, handles,
etc.); Bristows Pty., Etd. (distributors of
special manufactured products not covered
by the builders’ hardware trade); W. H.
Wells Pty., Etd. (manufacturers of
cabinet and general hardware) ; Wells
(Export) Pty., Etd.; Victor Motor Co. Pty.,
Etd. (general engineers and founders,
specialising in machine-tools and indus-
trial plants).
Of the many standard overseas pro-
ducts which the group makes in Australia
under licence, Schlage mortice-locks,
Invizible sash-balances, and L.C.N. con-
cealed-in-door door-closers have been
prominent in the sales programme, and
the bread-and-butter lines of butt-hinges,
brackets and handles are holding their
own with all competitors, local or over-
seas.
Last year net earnings were arrived at
after setting aside £10,227 for deprecia-
tion (up £472) and £38,711 (up £4349) for
taxation;
Consolidated Figures.
To Re- Nom. Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
1951.. 59,316 8 p.c. = 41,709 15,607 50,241
From tax reserve, £2844 .. .. 59,085
1952.. 49,129 8 p.c. = 41.709 7,420 00,505
Added reserves, £13,590 .. .. 80,095
Written-ofl intangibles, £B5OO .. 70,595
1953.. 59,768 8 p.c. = 45,185 14,583 91,178
Written-ofl intangibles, £5OOO .. 88,178
1954.. 78,109 8 p.c. = 52,185 25,974 112,152
* Subject to goodwill, etc. (£24,089 at 30/6/’54).
After allowing for the interests of out-
side shareholders, the £78,109 of profit
was £18,341 higher than in the preceding
year, and represented 12 p.c. on average
ord. capital, compared with 10.5 p.c. and
9.4 p.c. in the two preceding years. The
8 p.c. div. was repeated, and half as much
as was distributed was added to reserves.
In a year in which one out of a little
oyer eyery two cos. has increased its
dividend it needs to be remembered that
R. B. Davies has £147,000 invested in
Yorkshire Fittings (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.,
which so far has turned in nothing.
The Yorkshire concern, in which R.B.D.
has a 49 p.c. interest (the other partner
is the Yorkshire Copper Co., of Leeds),
was engaged until October, 1953, in plant-
erection and organisation. But it is now
operating profitably, and within a year
or two may be able to contribute some-
thing. In the long-run it has a chance
to become a money-spinner. It makes
capillary-jointed brass and copper fittings
for the plumbing trades ; these save about
50 p.c. of the copper used in hot-water
and similar installations.
Consolidated balance-sheet figures
show a steady strengthening of the
finances:
Consolidated Figures.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Ord. capital .. .. £521,367 £651,160 £651,682
Pref. interests .. .. 75,500 75,500 75,500
Reserves and p. and 1... 66,505 91,178 112,152
Secured creditors .. 174,692 222,163 197,947
Yorkshire Fittings .. 71,237
Sundry creditors .. 127,602 82,282 135,860
Final dividend.. .. 41,709 45,185 52,135
Freehold and plant .. 473,994 441,683 443,371
Stocks 423,552 477,800 490,903
Debtors 80,491 90,257 100,167
Yorkshire shares .. —• 147,000 147,000
Yorkshire loan .. .. 60,000 18,048
Cash, etc 543 2,876 1,698
Goodwill, etc. . . .. 28,796 29,089 24,089
Upward movements in fixed assets and
stock-values are small. Though net tan-
gible assets are equal to no more than
225. 9d. a share, there is more financial
and industrial sinew in the undertaking
than the figures themselves disclose. The
co.’s progressive plant-replacement policy
has been a great source of strength in
meeting competition.
At 275. 6d. the shares return a shade
under 6 p.c, on an 8 p.c. div. basis. With
the upward sales tendency “well main-
tained” during the first three months of
the current year, and with the prospect
of some return from Yorkshire before
long, there are chances of something
better than 8 p.c, later on.
Frederic Ash, Ltd.
HPHE Newcastle-centred builders’- and
-*■ plumbers’-supply firm of Frederic
Ash, Ltd., embarks on its centenary year
after having made a tip-top showing in
its ninety-ninth. The centenary year has
opened very well, even though there may
be a levelling-off in some lines later on.
The building trade remains busy, not-
withstanding tighter credit conditions.
In the past term turnover expanded
26 p.c. (compared with a rise of 8 p.c.
in the previous year), and, after provid-
ing £46,000 for taxation (compared with
£50,935) and £3031 for depreciation,
there was a leap oil £16,860 in profit:
To Re- Re-
June. Profit, t Dividends , serves. serves.
£ £ £ £-
1951. . 67,940 15 p.c. = 84,500 33,440 145.989
Net additions, £6471 .. .. • • 151,460
1952.. 08,192 124 p.c. = 33,750 84,442 185.902
Back taxes, £l5B .. .. 185,744
1958.. 70.157 124 p.c. = 88,750 1
Provision long-service f 28,292 214,036
leave, £Bll5 ~ J
Back taxes, £930 .. .. .. 213,100
1954.. 87.017 15 p.c.= 40,5001
Provision long-service f 37,517 250,023
leave, £9OOO .. J
The showing was equal to 32.2 p.c. on
capital, compared with 26 p.c., 25.3, 25.1
and 19.2 p.c. in the four preceding years.
After setting aside £9OOO (compared with
£Bll5 in the preceding year) for long-
service leave, the div. was lifted from
12} p.c. to 15 p.c., and £37,517 —nearly
as much as the amount distributed
among shareholders —was carried to
reserves.
Long-service commitments should be
pretty well covered by now —the £18,115
set aside over the past two years would
provide three months’ pay for 72 em-
ployees on £lOOO a year—even though
the burden of this “blessing” of the Wel-
fare State falls heaviest on old-estab-
lished concerns like Frederic Ash, which
was set up in 1855 and converted into a
public co. in 1951.
Since conversion shareholders have
had 10s. a share in divs., and 10s. Bd.
has been added to the net tangible back-
ing of the scrip, which now amounts to
38s. 6d. a share. The scrip was placed
at 375. 6d. At last week’s price of 545.
the yield is £5 11s. per cent, on a 15 p.c.
div. basis.
With the hundredth birthday of the
business approaching, some shareholders
are expecting something special when the
accounts come out for 1954-55, That as
it may be, it is a fact that over the cen-
tury expansion has been largely financed
by ploughed-back profits. The New-
castle premises have been extended, and
in 1910 a branch was established in Lis-
more. Another was opened in Cessnock
in 1924, a third at Wollongong in 1928,
where good progress has been made. A
glass, shopfront and glazing branch was
set-up in Sydney in 1930. The co. has a
large interest (believed to be a third) in
R. S. Exton and Co. Pty., The Valley,
Brisbane, and “a considerable financial
interest in Vencore Veneers Pty. (makers
of patented coreboards) and Harlequin
Products Co., manufacturers of disin-
fectants, polishes, liquid soaps, etc.
Frederic Ash itself makes sheet-metal
items for the building-trade.
Any profits made by the subsidiary
have not been brought into the parent’s
accounts.
The management appears to operate
its business around a nucleus of conserva-
tively valued fixed assets and stocks.
Premises (excepting the Sydney glass-
store) are freehold. Most movement last
year was in plant (up £8198) and debtors
(up £45,157):
1951. 1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital.. £270,000 £270,000 £270,000 £270,000
Creditors, etc. 79,466 210,695 126,925 ( 9ftl 91S
Tax provision 80,000 50,515 54,000 f zul >* xa
Final divs., etc. 27,000 20,250 28,365 36,000
Freeholds .. 139,179 144,271 147,660 147,760
Plant . . 22,663 23,488 21,251 29,449
Investments .. 69,190 69,190 69,191 69,191
Stock .. 224,942 320,466 261,293 261,935
Debtors .. 146,397 179,863 147,026 192,183
Loan to subsid. 46,796 47,122
Cash, etc. .. 83 84 110 1,201
Creditor items, now including tax-pro-
vision, were up £20,293. The liquid


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
of every type
and size
Famous for man/ years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known-
“JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3i ins.,
61 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
In all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
ţ
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson A O'Sullivan [,‘J;
Envelop* Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
ť
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO NATHALIE MARY SIMPSON (nee
NATHALIE MARY BUCHAN) late of
Grenfell—TAKE NOTICE that BARRY
SIMPSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3979 of 1954 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years ahd upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 2nd March 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. FLASHMAN.
CASSAR & JOHNSTONE, of Pangee
Street, Nyngan, or their City Agents,
MESSRS. McDONELL & MOFFITT, 6
Wvnyard Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
A SOUND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION
■in
fuii
■iiii
Mbii
Min
Providing profit-
able protection
for policyhold-
ers, while pro-
viding funds
to assist
Australia's
develop-
ment.
Every Year
a Bonus Year
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'lcl 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BWBO6I.
TO-DAY'S PROTECTION —TO-MORROW’S SECURITY
Now ..,
a Sound, Sure Way to
Make Your Money Earn
71
PER ANNUM
With a view to supplementing funds to meet
the ever-increasing demand for their services as
hire purchase financiers. Alliance Acceptance
Co. Limited are now accepting Term Deposits
at the undermentioned rales per annum for
the periods shown:
■■INTEREST RATE PERIOD ■■■■■■
PER ANNUM
7% 24 months
6i% 18 ••
6% 12 ..
31% 9 „
3*% 6 ..
3i% 3 ..
CONDITIONS OF ACCEPTANCE
1. Interest is payable quarterly from the date of
acceptance.
2. Minimum deposit is £lOO.
3. Applications should be made on the special
Application Form (see below) and should be
forwarded, together with cheque, to the Secre-
tary at the Registered Office of the Company.
Victorian subscribers may lodge applications
direct with Victorian Branch Office.
SOUND DEVELOPMENT
Alliance Acceptance Co. Limited commenced
operations in April, 1951. The conservative
policy maintained during the subsequent years
of highly successful trading has built a sound
foundation for expansion in the future.
Make a
TERM DEPOSIT
with
ALLIANCE
ACCEPTANCE
CO. LIMITED
(INC. IN N.S.W.)
Application Forms may he obtained from all Stock-
brokers or direct from Alliance Acceptance Co.
Limited at either of the following addresses:
SYDNEY: MELBOURNE;
St. John House Brentwood House
21 Macquarie Place 420 St. Kilda Road
Telephone: BU 6147 Telephone: BM 1292
ALLIANCE ACCEPTANCE CO. LIMITED.
Please send details of your Term Deposit Plan.
B 1
position is obviously very com-
fortable, and the overdraft
(£31,083), which is included with
creditors above, was worked
down nearly £20,000 last term.
Unless there are undisclosed
plans for expansion, there
appears to be little likelihood of
shareholders being asked for
more capital in the near future.
Walkers, Ltd. (Q.)
THIS 66 - year - old heavy-
engineering business builds
steam locomotives, ships, bridges,
diesel- and steam - engines,
mining, sugar-mill and other
machinery, and does jobbing-
engineering, steel-, iron- and
brass-founding, boiler-making,
coppersmithing and forging, etc.
The main shops and yards are
at Maryborough (Q.), and there
is a branch works at Mackay
(Q.), where Cameron’s old-
established engineering business
was taken over in 1950, when
shareholders put up £49,687 of
fresh capital, lifting the figure,
which had been steady at
£124,193 since 1916, to £173,871.
At June 30 last it had the support
and assistance of £419,046 of
reserves. The two combined
therefore need turn in only
3.6 p.c. to cover \2\ p.c.—the
rate paid for the last six years —
on capital alone.
Last term competition got
more of an edge on it, and pro-
duction was severely curtailed
during the last quarter of the
term, owing to a strike by a
section of the employees. Includ-
ing a transfer (unchanged at
£15,000) to the depreciation
reserve, the shrinkage in gross
earnings (£163,724) was £13,368.
Exes. (£109,019) were pulled
back by £12,727, due entirely to
a cut in the provision for taxa-
tion (£lB,OOO, down £25,000).
The slip in the net result was
thus reduced to £641;
• Re-
June Profit.* r~ —Dividend N serves.*
30, £ £ £
1950. .48,465 124 p.c. = 15,524 312,869
To staff fund, £929 . . . . 311,940
Goodwill written off, £1788.. 310,152
Profit sale assets, £4252 . . 314,404
1951.. 44,964 124 p.c. = 19,181 340,237
To staff fund, £2568 . . 387,669
1952..51,975 124 p.c. = 21,734 367,910
To staff fund, £4273 .. 363,637
Profit sale assets, £1205 .. 364,842
1953.. 55,346 124 p.c. = 21,734 398,454
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 393,454
Profit sale assets, £8849 . . 397,303
1954..54,705 124 p.c. = 21,734 430,274
Tq staff fund, etc., £11,228.. 419,046
* Includes additipns to depreciation re-
serve, etc. (now £116,000).
The £54,705 of profit was equal
to 31.4 p.c. on capital as against
31.8, 29.9, 29.4, 39 and 35.3 p.c.
back to 1949. Of the £32,971
that remained after handing
shareholders p.c., £11,228
was used to meet charges for
long-service leave and employees’
retiring allowances. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s
profit was 9.2 p.c. So the
£lOO,OOO of five-year 6 p.c.
unsecured registered notes, issued
early last term, are earning more
than their keep.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital £173,871 £173,871 £173,871
Reserves .. 363,637 393,404 419,046
Notes .. 100,000
Overdraft .. 139,318 145,026 64,628
Sundry
creditors* 89,037 118,156 89,061
Staff fund.. 15,000 20,000 20,000
Final div. .. 21,734 21,734 21,734
Total .. £802,597 £867,241 £888,340
Freehold,
plant, etc. 306,581 349,750 393,999
Stock . . 134,186 128,058 164,037
Work in pro-
gress . . 72.589 153,005 132,091
Book debts 157,741 109,537 67,138
Investments
and cash.. 131,500 131,891 131,075
Total .. £802,597 £867,241 £888,840
* Includes provision for taxation and
contingencies.
The effects of the strike show up
in a growth of £40,979 in stocks
and reductions of £20,914 in
work-in-progress and £42,399 in
book-debts. With the help of
the new note-money the co. was
also able to add £44,249 to free-
holds and plant, as well as slash
£80,398 off the overdraft and
£24,095 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc. The
shrinkage of £18,657 in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£198,918)
was due to the outlay on fixed
assets.
Clouds on the horizon are
growing competition and uncer-
tainty about future demand for
ships and locos, two of the co.’s
main lines. To meet the position
the management is assaulting
costs by technical and other
improvements, and arrangements
are in hand to “develop activities
which will maintain the co.’s
outstanding position in the field
of heavy-engineering.” In the
past those in control have shown
aptitude for switching produc-
tion with changes in the character
of demand. Only once in the
last 47 years have shareholders
failed to receive a div.
The market expresses its con-
fidence by pricing the f.-p. £1
shares at 495. to return 5.1 p.c.,
on a 12i p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover is 68s. 2d., includ-
ing the depreciation reserve
(£116,000).
Central Uranium, N.L.
Offering 1,500,000 ss. shares
(payable 2s. 6d., including 2s.
prepaid call, on applicatipn),
Central Uranium, N.L., incor-
porated in Sydney, may go to
allotment on the issue of 800,000
shares, which have already been
taken firm by Sydney broker
S. R. Johnson. It is acquiring
five lease-applications of about
40 acres each at Maud Creek,
near Katherine, N.T., and three
authorities-to-prospect aggregat-
ing 14 square miles (two near
the Adelaide River and one
near Brock’s Creek). Radio-
activity has been reported from
each of the areas.
Coronation Investments Pty.,
Ltd., is to be paid £27,500 in
cash for areas to be taken over,
and it will have the right to sub-
scribe for 120,000 shares at par
between 12 and 24 months after
date of registration.
The co. is also negotiating for
areas in the Mt. Isa-Cloncurry
district. It will begin with a
minimum working capital of
£62,833, and a minimum calling-
power of £lOO,OOO.
At present the project is still
in the prospecting and testing
stage. As the prospectus says,
“mining operations, consisting
of shaft-sinking, costeaning and
drilling, are usually necessary to
ascertain values at depth.”
On the Central Uranium
board are Sir Henry Barra-
clough, Dr. J. J. G. McGirr,
A. G. D. Shannon, E. A.
Cleary and H. G. G. Duncan-
Weatherley.
J. and A. Brown
J. and A. Brown and Aber-
main Seaham Collieries, Ltd., in
its last term sold i\ million tons
of coal, which was greater than
the output of any other group in
the industry.
Partly because of the basic-
wage “freeze,” costs in the
industry have been compara-
tively stable, and during 1953-
54 J. and A. Brown reduced the
price of its coal by 2s. a ton.
This was undoubtedly helped by
the co.’s mechanisation policy.
As mechanisation progresses, the
co. hopes for further price-
reductions. But the price of coal
depends largely on wage-costs,
and any substantial reduction
must stem from more consistent
working and increased output
per manshift, chairman R. S.
Goward says.
Over the past three years
J. and A. Brown has spent (or
has appropriated for spending)
£1,050,000 of tax-free profits on
necessary plant and develop-
ment.
Remaining profits have barely
covered the 8 p.c. div.; but in
the absence of labor stoppages
that rate seems secure. The £1
shares are just above par on
’Change,


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
A little more than four weeks to
Christmas, but yet the urge to “shop
early” doesn’t seem to have struck many
people. The stores are beginning to
glitter and twinkle with crystal snow-
flakes, reindeer, fairy work-shops and
jingle-bells, and at one (Anthony
Horderns’) Santa Claus arrives at a
puppet-show eight times a day in a jet-
propelled aeroplane.
Among the novelties suitable for
Christmas gifts are insulated picnic-pails
in colored aluminium (about £5); table
cigarette-lighters in the shape of horses,
dogs, elephants (about 50s. and selling
as fast as they come in); hair-ribbons
for little girls with their own names on
them (about 3/6 for two) \ indoor flower-
waterers like colored plastic-teapots with
rather weird narrow spouts (12s. 6d.);
trivets (ornamental table-coasters like
old-fashioned iron-stands, for 7s. 6d.
each); tiny ash-trays to clip on the side of
a saucer (four for 4s, 6d.); and, for a
small child, a real working cash-register
for 475. 6d.!
The quality and design of decorative
candles has improved very greatly this
year. Some are shaped like pastel water-
lilies and will remain alight floating in
water for five hours. Others are like
snowballs, or are tiny figures of Santa
Claus, or long, graceful tapers for
arranging with flowers. Most are
guaranteed drip-proof. The temptation
to dine by candle-light (“so much kinder
to the complexion, too”) is becoming
irresistible, though it seems rather
eccentric to -vdo so just when we’ve
succeeded in getting some really
dependable electric-light.
Youngest member of the audience at
the Independent’s light-hearted new
comedy, “The Two Bouquets,” was three-
year-old Laura Gabriel, who came to see
her father, Ben Gabriel, in the show and
also the charming 1880 dresses designed
and made by her grandmother, Ethel
Gabriel. Her mother, Rhonny, is
in the Independent’s Christmas play,
“The Glass Slipper,” and Laura has
been to most of the rehearsals for that,
too, so that, with her experience of ballet
(she has been to every programme of the
present Borovansky season), it looks as
though she might make the footlights
herself before long.
☆ ☆ ☆
Yet another annual meeting with a
balance-sheet showing a surplus was that
of Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, which,
of course, meant another meeting with
a general air of cheerfulness. Among
the 22 young nurses-in-training who
received prizes for their work from Mrs.
Alistair Stephen were Nurse Peggy
Bright, who won the hospital medal for
general proficiency over four years of
training, and Glen Fisher, a young first-
year nurse whose mother, Mrs. E. Fisher,
had come down from Greenthorpe
(N.S.W.) to see her receive her prize
for anatomy.
The Prince Alfred meeting was a
farewell, also, to youthful Matron Looker,
who leaves for England before the end
of the year to marry Mr. John Guy, of
Bournemouth, whom she met when she
was in the Army. Mr. Guy is an
interior-decorator, but Matron Looker,
who has had charge of a staff of nearly
1000 nurses during her seven years as
matron at Prince Alfred, may continue
her nursing career in England, as she
studied there for two years under a
Florence Nightingale scholarship and is
familiar with English nursing methods.
She is, she says, a first-generation
Australian going back to England to
live, though she is not the first member
of her family to do so, as her brother
George, who studied at Cambridge, has
lived in England since 1935 and is now
in charge of the Pacific and South
African Service of the 8.8. C. Matron
Looker is to be succeeded at P.A. by
Matron Evelyn Lawne.
☆ ☆ ☆
Where to put Sydney’s Opera House
is one of the questions of the moment,
and a special committee is to be formed
this week to investigate the various sites
suggested. To the interested onlooker
(namely this Letter) there is one site that
is so far ahead of the others that there
is no room for debate—that is, where
the tram-sheds now stand at Fort Mac-
quarie, It would be a beautiful location
for opera-goers to visit, it would be a
beautiful building for harbor-goers to
see. It is not inaccessible and there is
plenty of parking-area.
The main objection is that the trams
wouldn’t have a home, but, as it is planned
to put the poor old trams out of existence
at any rate before very long, that should
not be very weighty. Another objection
is that the foghorns on the harbor would
compete with the singers, but to judge by
some of the voices one hears it might
be the foghorns that would retire
discouraged.
Margaret Chambers, eldest daughter of
Mr. V. J. Chambers of Bow Park. Julia
Creek (Q.), and the late Mrs. Chambers,
will marry Ben Thornley, younger son
of Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Thornley,
Kooindah, Tumut (N.S.W.), at St. Mark’s
Church, Darling Point, on December 16.
Photo by Dayne.
Another subject raising the blood-
pressure of the civic-minded is the
chopping-down of Moreton Bay fig-trees
in Moore Park to make way for a wall
(the roots of the trees apparently under-
mine the stone). The tree-lovers object to
this, although the City Council is replac-
ing the trees with a leafier type of fig and
with poplars.
Of course all right-minded people like
trees, but surely one is not required to
like all trees, and, looked at quite dispas-
sionately, the Moreton Bay fig is not quite
as lovely as, shall we say, an oak. The
fig’s sombre, black and gnarled trunk, its
tough, unyielding boughs, its hard, clatter-
ing, mustard-colored leaves that strew the
ground along with its squashy fruits, its
stolid foliage that never dances in the
wind or even seems to acknowledge the
coming of spring, all speak of harshness
and melancholy. The sophisticated and
cynical may find beauty in it, but it by no
means represents the heart and spirit of
Sydney. The more of its gloomy avenues
that are cut down and replaced by livelier,
happier trees, the better it will be for this
city.
☆ ☆ ☆
A party at the home of Mr. Robert
Wilson, 80 Wolseley-road, Point Piper,
next Saturday night at 8 p.m. will be
in aid of the National Opera Company,
and will feature music, ballet and dancing
on the lawn.
☆ ☆ ☆
Opening night of “Dear Charles,” the
new comedy at the Royal, brought the
first-nighters out in force in spite of a
thunderstorm which struck (as usual) just
at setting-out time. Noticed Mr.
Borovansky and Mr. Bill Orr (taking
busman’s-holiday from the ballet and the
revue respectively), Mr. and Mrs. Lindley
Evans, Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Burbridge,
Miss Elsie Beyer. Mrs. Cedric Symonds
looked attractive in white tulle and a
beautiful white-fox cape. Mrs. Allen
Williams wore a striking dress of cream
china-silk combined with paisley in rich
Chinese colors.
☆☆ ☆ ,
Heard in the school playground: “Our
house is all modern because my mother’s
an inferior decorator.”
☆ ☆ ☆
At the press-party for Hopalong
Cassidy (or, more soberly, Mr. William
Boyd) the movie star and his wife Tripa-'
long greeted the assembly, whose ages
ranged from 21 to 75, with “It wasn’t our
idea to be late, kids,” thereby offending
nobody and livening up quite a few.
Hopalong is touring Australia on behalf
of the Crippled Children’s Society,
and is devoting all the profits of the toui
to the cause. Wherever he went in
Sydney he was surrounded by huge
crowds, and the benevolence and geniality
of his smile never failed under the
onslaught of autograph-hunters.
Hopalong’s wife, to whom he has been
married for \l\ years, is small, vivacious
and very suntanned. She wore to the
party a smart black taffeta sheath-dress,
and a pillbox hat striped red and white
with a red rose perched on the front.
“Everything I buy is chosen to please
Hopalong,” she said, and made it quite
clear to all the reporters present that
“Hoppy’s” wishes took preference in all
their affairs. Is this a hint to those
about to marry?
MCLECURNE
Colonel John L. Sullivan, U.S. Air
Attache, and Mrs. Sullivan gave a cock-
tail-party at the Dorchester to farewell
Major James Clark, former U.S.
Assistant Army and Mrs. Clark.
Guests also had an opportunity of meet-
ing Major Clark’s successor, Major
Leonard F. Donnelly, and Mrs. Donnelly.
The hostess wore a striking ballerina
frock, the skirt being of black-and-white
diagonally striped taffeta, the halter-
necked bodice of black taffeta. Mrs.
Clark’s sleeveless full-skirted frock of
black nylon tulle had floating side-panels
and was mounted on black crepe. A
mauve cummerbund highlighted the ice-
blue cotton frock worn by Mrs.
Donnelly. Hand-painted in a white
design, the skirt was very full and the
bodice made to show one shoulder.
Among the 200 guests were the Chief
of Air Staff, Air-Marshal J. P. J. Mc-
Cauley, his wife and daughter Anne,
Air-Vice-Marshal J. E. Hewitt and Mrs.
Hewitt, Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs. E. C.
Wackett, Group-Captain and Mrs. D.
Charlton, and Brigadier R. Irving and
Mrs. Irving.
Mrs. James Smallwood wore with her
pale-yellow cotton frock a gold-sequin-
trimmed black velvet cap. Mrs. W. E.
Cole’s black sheath-frock was of faille,
her white satin cloche spotted in black.
Mrs. Frank Callahan’s black frock was
worn under a silver-blue mink jacket
and her black hat was sprinkled with
gold sequins. A white hand-knitted
frock was the choice of Mrs. A. C.
Hvistendahl (her husband is president of
the American Club). Mrs. W. S. Cox
wore a white silk frock and jacket pat-
terned in black. Mrs. Bing Molyneux
chose a jacket-suit of grey silk-tweed and
small black velvet hat with a jet-
embroidered brim. Mrs. Givon Parsons,
wife of the U.S. Consul, topped her
black frock with a white jewel-trimmed
hat. Mrs. Charles Lane wore black
linen with a Ming-blue velvet cap.
☆ ☆ ☆
The centenary of Florence Nightingale’s
mission to the Crimean war was cele-
brated at Union House on Friday night
with a dinner organised by the Royal
Victorian College of Nursing. Over
300 members of the profession attended,
many of them from country areas. Special
guests were External Affairs Minister
R. G. Casey and Mrs. Casey, and
Chamber of Commerce chairman Sir John
Allison and Lady Allison. They were
received by the president of R.V.C.N.,
Miss Jane Muntz, who was assisted by
Miss A. H. Morgan, Miss H. D. Gray,
Mrs. Anton de Neeve and the hon.
secretary. Miss J. M. Elliott.
Several hospital matrons with distin-
guished records were among the guests.
They included Miss E. J. Bowe, Matron-
in-Chief of the Royal Australian Army
Nursing Service, and Miss A. M. Sage
and Miss Vivian Bulwinkel, all recipients
of the Florence Nightingale Medal; Miss
J. M. Langham (Ballarat Base), Miss
H. E. McMahon (West Gippsland
Hospital), Miss Ruth Meaney (Royal
Women’s), Miss B. C. Lawson (Eye and
Ear), Miss E. Jackson (Bendigo and
Northern District), and Miss Mavis
Mitchell (Footscray).
At the dinner it was announced by Miss
Edith Hughes-Jones, president of the
Victorian Florence Nightingale
committee, that Miss Jean Murray, a
sister-tutor at the Melbourne School of
Nursing, had been awarded the seventh
Centaur Scholarship. She also disclosed
that an appeal would be launched next
year for £50,000, as part of the centenary
7commemoration, the money to be spent
ton improving the nursing service.
☆ ☆ ☆
Former N. S. Wales Premier Mair
praised the good housekeeping of
Y.W.C.A. when, at a luncheon held in the
Social Hall of the “Y” in Russell-street,
he spoke of the forthcoming appeal for
funds. President Mrs. T. C. Rentoul was
present, and among the members of the
committee were Mrs. Elizabeth Fitz-
gerald, Mrs. Arnold Isaacson, Mrs.
Hector Greig, Mrs. M. Dwyer and Mrs.
J. B. Cordner. Miss Elizabeth Palmer,
from the U.S. (she is a member of the
World Y.W.C.A. staff), also spoke of the
great need for money to assist the
organisation’s work.
Later in the week Lady Brooks, wife
of the Governor, launched the appeal
for £50,000. This is the first appeal
Y.W.C.A. has made for 20 years. With
the money to be raised the building at
60 Russell-street will be reconditioned
and a Memorial Hall built in honor of
members of the women’s services who
lost their lives in the last war. There
will be added several more rooms, neces-
sary to house the ever-expanding educa-
tion-classes, club activities and physical-
education work.
☆☆☆ „ •
Hand-blown glass-jewellery created by
Grant Featherston has made its first
appearance in the shops. Light as a
bubble and seemingly as fragile, this
jewellery glows with iridescent colors,
including gold and silver fired on to the
glass after it has been blown. The orna-
ments include earrings which hold a tiny
flower, and the water to keep it fresh ;
or if the wearer chooses she may fill
the earrings with perfume. There are
teardrop necklaces and earrings to
match; earrings which are a transparent
sphere with colored liquid inside and with
little silver spines to give them a cactus
effect.
One of the most interesting items
among the earrings is the Flagon, a tiny
glass bottle designed to hold perfume,
which evaporates slowly and allows
the wearer always to be conscious of
a fragrant aroma. Fortune-teller is a
transparent, iridescent crystal-ball with
a delicate mother-of-pearl design.
A former resident of Sydney, Mrs.
Douglas Cox, wife of the well-known
dress-designer, works for St. John’s Boys
Home at Canterbury and for the City
Creche, which is run by the wives of city
councillors, whose ranks Mrs. Cox joined
recently. Her favorite sport is tennis.
John Warlow photo.
Despite his being the only man among
the 18 at the luncheon-party given for
him at the Ress-Astoria, Jean Sablon,
the French singer now appearing in “La
Vie Parisienne” at the Princess, coped
admirably with conversation directed at
him from all points of the table. Host
Leon Ress had seated the singer between
two pretty girls, Elly Lukis and Rena
Pope, who speak French fluently; but
the precaution was unnecessary, for M.
Sablon speaks excellent English. Also
enjoying the luncheon were Greta Miers,
Judy Lancett, Andrea Thorpe, Betty
Stewart and several presswomen.
The glad hand was again extended to
M. Sablon at a cocktail-party given
by Mr. and Mrs. Harry Jay in their
Collins-street studio; here the French
Consul, M. Cyrille le Bas, and his wife
were special guests. Mrs. Jay wore a
grey faille frock coin-spotted in black,
which featured a floating side-panel lined
with black. Madame le Bas chose a
smart black ensemble.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “Tbe Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
n Ame
ADDRESS
ŧ
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
"The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
Empire ....
£2 Foreign
C Please add exchange to country
.... £2/10/-
cheques )
{or se{
for m
Onoto
eeb§\
pencil
£r
■
WIDE RANGE OF COLOURS
N824/3.2
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO CHARLES AUGUSTUS FRASER for-
merly of Waverley New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that ELLEN DOLOUR
FRASER has filed Petition for Divorce
No. 4631 of 1952 on the grounds of de-
sertion Without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and is asking the
Court to exercise its discretion under
Section 19 <2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by Bth February 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from A. R. M. GIBSON & MAO-
PHILLAMY, Solicitors, of 43 Phillip
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
fN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO FLORENCE MAUDE TRENGROUSE
late of 504 Punchbowl Road Lakemba in
the State of New South Wales Respondent
and JOHN BILIARY NEW late of Syd-
ney Co-respondent.—TAKE NOTICE that
LIONEL GEORGE WILLIAM TREN-
GROUSE has filed a Petition No. 1906 of
1954 praying for a Divorce from
FLORENCE MAUDE TRENGROUSE on
the grounds of adultery with JOHN
lIILIARY NEW If either of you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 9th day of March
1955 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from JOHN
BARNETT GREAVES, Solicitor, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE LITTLEFIELD late of
Auburn in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that MARY SARAH
LITTLEFIELD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3412 of 1954 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 17th day of
March 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSIEURS
HUGHESDON & DAVIS, of 17 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
Missing Friend*
TO GLADYS J. RICHARDSON formerly
of Tarnagulla in the State of Victoria
but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your husband HAROLD
WILLIAM RICHARDSON has instituted
proceedings against you for Divorce on
the ground of your adultery with one ALEX
HEAD Unless you enter an appearance in
the Office of the Prothonotary Supreme
Court Melbourne on or before the 21st
day of December 1954 the case may pro-
ceed in your absence If you wish to
defend ‘ the said suit you must also file
your answer in the said Office on or be-
fore the 15th January 1955.
TO ALEX HEAD formerly of 182 Napier
Street Pitzroy but now of parts unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that HAROLD WILLIAM
RICHARDSON has instituted proceedings
against his wife GLADYS JEAN RICH-
ARDSON for Divorce on the ground of
her adultery with you Unless you enter an
appearance in the Office of the Prothono-
tary Supreme Court Melbourne on or be-
fore the 21st day of December 1954 the
case may proceed in your absence and
you may be ordered to jpay costs If you
wish to defend the said suit you must
also file an answer in the said Office on
or before the 15th day of January 1955.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Damn’ Awkward
Damn’ awkward situation,
really.
Man’s a bachelor, y’ know.
Huntin’, shootin’ and fishin’ and
a spot of politics—Conservative,
of course, “Punch” and a few
Munnings and that sort of thing.
Quiet life, but good—good.
Then, suddenly, Denise wants
to see me. Denise, mind you.
And in Paris.
Denise! French, of course.
Lovely little thing. Haven’t
seen her for 20 years. Mebbe
more. Was in Paris then. Uni-
versity. Diplomatic course.
And Denise. Wanted to marry
her, of course, but what with
one thing and another and the
way things go and all that sort
of thing, never got round to it.
Never married anyone, in fact.
So now to Paris and Denise
again, and confound me if she
hasn’t a son. Mine! Gad,
couldn’t have been more
stunned if I’d found a fox in
the drawing-room. Damn’ fine
young feller, just the same.
Good type and all that. British
stock, of course. Two other
children, too, though. And their
—er —fathers there!
Man shouldn’t talk, of course,
but after all! One’s a foreign
type. Polish or something.
Pianist. Long-hair. Unstable
character. All hands and can’t
stand still. Denise and him,
mind you. A daughter.
Other’s a French feller. Never
trusted ’em. Interested in
diamonds, oil, shares and that
sort of thing. Other people’s,
probably. Denise and him / A
son.
Trouble seems to be couple
of the kids want to get married.
Wealthy French family. In
tinned sardines or something.
Denise has to produce a father
for them. So far she’s fooled
the kids with a portrait on the
wall —painting she picked up in
a junk-shop or somewhere.
Solid-looking feller, but dull.
Charles, she calls him. “Dear
Charles.” Kids thought all
along he was their pater. All
up now, though. Kids getting
married and that sort of thing.
Facts got to come out. Must
have a father.
That’s how Denise sees it.
Quite right, too. Got to be one
of us. Man’s got first claim, of
course. Was first in the first
place. British, too. Damn’
Pole and French feller no busi-
ness to be hanging around.
StiH, it’s up to Denise. Got
to make her choice and doesn’t
know which. Like all women.
Never make up their minds.
Three of us standing around like
neddies at a horse-sale. Sardine
people almost knocking at the
door. Awkward situation.
Damn’ awkward. Embarrassin’,
too, y’ know.
What’s more, they’ve put the
whole business on the stage at
Sydney Royal. Hardly a fair
thing. Man should sue ’em.
But they do it well. Damn’
well. Sophie Stewart, Ellis
Irving, Clement McCallin and
Anthony Ward. Others, too.
Good, begad, when you come
to think of it. Damn’ good.
So good you’d think they’d
been through the business them-
selves at some time.
* * ❖
Bela Siki
One of the acid-tests of a
pianist as Beethoven’s Sonata
Op. 110, the last but one of the
master’s essays in the form, a
work of the utmost profundity
and grandeur. Of its four con-
nected movements, the second,
the scherzo {molto allegro ),
offers the greatest challenge to
interpretative skill.
Bela Siki, who included it in
his second Sydney concert, was
not only able to conjure to the
full the gusty Beethovian laughter
but in the trio section held the
finest balance between the
feather-light passages in the
treble and the dusting of notes
deep in the left hand. The
adagio was moving and eloquent,
and the fugal treatment in the
final allegro was strong and clear.
Playing of crystal clarity
marked Mozart’s B Flat Sonata,
K 333, a beautiful work of rich
theme and endless developmental
invention. Mr. Siki’s style, which
is based on intense concentration,
and his unexceptionable tech-
nique, were admirably suited to
this work.
A group of astringent peasant
songs by the contemporary
Hungarian composer Leo Weiner
were at times like the clash of
iron, but the rhythm had
strength. There was a Sonatina
for the Left Hand by the pianist-
composer Dinu Lipatti, modern
in its idiom and ingenious in its
exploitation of the keyboard
below middle C. And there
were the Liszt twins: “Sonetta
104 Del Petrarca,” and “St.
Francis Walking on the Waves,”
the latter an exciting exposition
of rolling scale-passages of great
power in the bass.
International Music Festival
In sweltering Brisbane weather,
which usually daunts musicians,
Test-cricketers and others who
play in public, Rudolf Pekarek
made a lively beginning as con-
ductor of the Queensland
Symphony Orchestra.
He conducted the four concerts
of an International Music
Festival, the music of which was
mostly strongly national (Czech,
English and Finnish), with some
of the less sanctimonious works
of C 6 sar Franck for good
measure.
Dvorak and Smetana provided
most of the music of the opening
pair of concerts. The pieces
were well-known and frequently-
played orchestral warhorses like
the “New World” Symphony.
But they sounded fresh and
exciting under Pekarek’s vital
beat. Everywhere there were the
subtle phrasings which mark the
work of a conductor who pays
as much attention to detail as
to general effect.
The last, and best, concert of
the series was devoted to the
quieter, though equally powerful,
music of Vaughan Williams and
Sibelius, The quality of the
orchestral tone in the Fifth
Symphony of Vaughan Williams
was as good as has been heard
from these players, though Mr.
Pekarek showed understandable
impatience in some of the lengthy
passages where the composer
refuses to be hurried.
Carmel Hakendorf was the
best of the Festival soloists. She
showed fire in the few interesting
passages of Dvorak’s Violin
Concerto, but was so calm and
unruffled in the Sibelius Concerto
that the violin fireworks of the
piece were less impressive than
they might have been.
Two One-act Operas
Sydney Con.’s Opera School
concluded an artistically adven-
turous year with Puccini’s “Suor
Angelica” and Dame Ethel
Smyth’s “The Boatswain’s
Mate.”
The Puccini work has an all-
feminine cast; set in a 17th-
century Italian convent, where
the young Sister Angelica takes
poison after hearing from her
stony-hearted aunt of the death
of the baby she was forced to
abandon seven years before.
The simple story was sung
and acted with the necessary
overtones of sorrow and dignity,
with Anita Dunlop in the title-
role displaying a rich mezzo-
soprano over quite a respect-
able gamut. Mary Brannigan’s
Sister Genevieve was sweetly
compassionate, her soprano
light but adequate. Tessa Schell
sang with commendable power
and quality of tone as the
haughtily disdainful aunt.
Comedy was maintained on a
good level in “The Boatswain’s
Mate,” in which an old soldier
(William Diamond) agrees to
commit a phony burglary and
scare the comely widow pub-
owner, and thus give a retired
mariner (John Fullard) a chance
to make his marble good by
acting the synthetic hero and
rescuing her.
Nita Maughan gave an out-
standing performance as the
resourceful but coy widow who
turns the tables on her nautical
and importunate suitor, and she
sang her numbers spiritedly.
William Diamond, too, gave her
strong support with a rollicking,
resonant baritone and well-
judged character-work.
* ❖ ❖
“The Curious Savage”
It is difficult to know whether
John Patrick meant this play,
put on the National Theatre,
Melbourne, to be funny, or
whether he meant it to be a
serious contribution to the cause
of human understanding. In
either case he has been singu-
larly unsuccessful. It would
require the humanity of a Freud
or a Dr. Cunningham Dax to
place a play in a mental institu-
tion and then contrast the
unreasonableness of the insane
with the unreasonableness of the
sane, as Mr. Patrick appears to
be doing.
The insane men and women
in the play are quite reasonable
about ordinary things—in fact,
more reasonable than most sane
people—but they are all firmly
convinced about their own delu-
sions and equally unconvinced
about each other’s, and a lot of
the alleged fun of the evening
comes out of this fact woven
into their conversation. In this,
also, they are very like sane
people, the difference being that
sane people, even when they are
being most unreasonable, will
always appeal to reason,
whereas the insane have thrown
reason overboard and feel no
necessity to justify their actions.
Mr. Patrick does not make us
feel sorry for the insane or for
the sane, but sorry for himself
and for the National Theatre
players who tried to make the
play as inoffensive as possible
by underacting their’ various
aberrations. Reg Gillam, Mal-
colm Phillips, Agnes Fulton and
Kathie Reed did this, Miss
Reed being most successful as
the skittish little widow who has
been signed-up by her children,
who are interested in her money.
D. J. M.
Artbursts
Melbourne Exhibition
In their choice of subject-
matter the 16 artists showing at
Tye’s Galleries, Melbourne, are
mostly guided by their humani-
tarian interests: they paint pubs,
slums, fishmarkets, factories and
places of that sort, with teeming
populations of toilers.
Nothing wrong with that —
Rembrandt was a humanitarian
who loved painting Jews and
beggars, and Turner painted the
slums of London. But there is
only one way of judging paint-
ings and that is from the aesthetic
standpoint—whether they are
well or badly painted—and from
that view one would be inclined
to say that V. G. O’Connor’s
“Fishermen’s Bend,” “Evening —
Fiinders-street” and “Near the
Fishmarket” are very much
better than M. L. Zuvela’s
“Street Scene.” O’Connor’s have
a great deal of the fresh quality
of Nature in them. Clifton
Pugh’s self-portrait is thoughtful
and considered —much more so
than Arthur Howells’s “The Old
Rebel.”
Noel Counihan’s huge canvas
showing the miners burning their
licences on Bakery Hill, Ballarat,
November 29, 1854, with their
wives and children looking at'
them, has force as illustration,
but it is labored in the painting
—much more labored than his
preliminary drawings, which are
excellent.
F. S.
Talkies
Current Sydney Releases:
“Decameron Nights” (Cen-
tury): Three Boccaccio stories,
two of them heavily bowdler-
ised, comprise this f.a.q. film,
one of the best features of which
is the well-captured atmosphere.
Louis Jourdain takes the roles
of the author and three of his
heroes with a dash of dash, and
that fine English actor, Godfrey
Tearle, swings with ease from
subtle comedy to high dignity.
Joan Fontaine makes it a little
too coy.
“Demetrius and the Gladi-
ators” (Regent): “This film be-
gins where ‘The Robe’ left off.”
True enough. Lloyd Douglas
gracefully retires and the heavy
hand of a Hollywooden script-
writer appears. He shoves a
dirk into Victor Mature’s hand
and orders him to slay a few
tigers and a whole platoon of
gladiators. The indestructible
Victor does it, of course, almost
with one hand tied behind his
back. Two portrayals stand out:
Jay Robinson as the half-mad,
cunning Caligula, and a gigantic
Nubian with a magnificent bass
speaking-voice
“Dangerous Mission”
(Esquire): Third-rate potboiler
about a killer trying to silence
a girl-witness. The going is
slow, the doings are highly
improbable when not impos-
sible, and the acting is about
the same.


You don't have to shoot
By
JACK Lusly
FUNNY how easy you can
get mixed-up in things.
Sometimes good; some-
times bad. Take that
stinking hot Saturday morning.
When I parked the truck in
front of the Star Hotel there
wasn’t a thought. in my head
beyond sinking the longest,
coolest schooner in the house.
Coming into the city the floor
of the truck-cabin had got as
hot as a cooking-plate. The
beat had got into the soles of
my boots, and I’d been lifting
them up and down as I drove.
Now, as I switched off in front
of the hotel, I could see the air
shimmering on top of the
engine, and felt the heat coming
through the metal top onto my
head. I never wear a hat.
The hotel-doors were propped
open. There were fans turning
inside, and fellows with their
coats off leaning against the bar
and drinking beer. With the
engine off I could hear the low
sound of their talk. I climbed
down and walked across the
pavement and went in. Into
the diciest job I’d ever been
mixed-up in. Including the old
desert stuff. This was different.
Too different.
It’s a big bar at the Star, and
there were only thirty, forty
blokes in there. Plenty of room.
It was just after eleven in the
morning. I asked the girl for a
schooner and looked the mob
over, the way you do.
When my eyes got used to
being inside I recognised two
men just round the bend in the
bar. I’d seen them in there and
down at the Royal a few times.
I’d had a drink with them once
or twice. Johnnie and Mac,
their names were,
Johnnie was a shortish,
smooth, well-filled bloke about
thirty-five. I could see his
snowy-white silk shirt now
above the bar and a dark-red
bow-tie under his chin. He had
a dark face; a small moustache
and a panama hat. Mac had a
lightweight grey suit and hat
and looked like an insurance-
salesman.
Johnnie said “On your own.
Red? Bring your drink round.”
I’m Red Leary, They didn’t
know the second half, any more
than I knew their other handles.
I carried my beer round the
back of a couple of wharfies
who were standing in between
and leaned on the bar near
Johnnie. A beer’s better when
you can talk over the top of it.
“How’s the truck going?”
Johnnie said. “Plenty of work?”
“Not too bad,” I said,
“Breaking even.”
“Like to do a job for us?
You’ll get a few quid for it.”
“Always ready to do a bit,”
I said. “What sort of job is
it?”
Mac put a note on the bar and
asked for drinks.
Johnnie said “I want you to
take some men out to Halford —
you know, out Koorangie way.
We’ve got a job to do there.”
“When?”
“Monday.”
“Monday’s all right.”
“Good. Here’s fun,”
We had a couple more beers
and fixed it to meet near the
Koorangie Garage Monday
morning. Koorangie’s a tiny
place about ten miles west of
the city on the Halford road.
Halford’s twenty miles further
on.
Playing with the kids while
Susie got tea ready, I told her
about Monday’s job.
“It might lead to something
regular from them,” she said.
“Don’t be late or anything.”
“It’ll be jake,” I said.
I WAS filling up with petrol at
Koorangie when a blue Buick
pulled up across the road and
Johnnie got out and came over.
The Buick went on towards
Halford.
“Mac’s in the car with a mate
of ours; Harris,” Johnnie said.
“We’ll pick them up later,”
He had a light leather jacket
on like the Yanks used to wear.
A shirt white like it was adver-
tising something; buttoned up,
but no tie. Brown felt hat and
sun-glasses. He looked a good
deal different. And sharp and
businesslike. Different to the
easy-going bloke in the pub. He
asked me to pull into a
yard behind the garage.
There was a lot of junk
there. Old car-bodies and
bits and pieces and other
junk,
“Give me a hand to
load some of this stuff on
the truck,” Johnnie said.
So we hopped in and
cluttered the truck with it.
I was wondering what was
the sense in this when he
said “This is just a bit of a
blind.” I didn’t like the
sound of it much. This
job of work was beginning
to puzzle me.
Johnnie,” I said,
“what d’you mean, ‘Bit of a
blind’?”
“Mac and Harris have got the
real drill on it,” he said.
“They’re waiting along towards
Halford.”
I was uneasy. Didn’t know
much about these men. Johnnie
seemed almost in disguise.
Leather jacket, sun-glasses.
Still, I was just hired to drive.
Didn’t seem any harm in driv-
ing. I drove along the Halford
road, Johnnie sitting beside me,
pretty quiet. He passed me a
smoke, but didn’t talk.
Up near the Black Mountain
turn-off the blue Buick was
parked at the side of the road
by a big gum-tree.
“Park behind him,” Johnnie
said. “Well over to the side of
the road. We don’t want the
truck for a while.”
We just sat there in the truck.
There was nobody in the Buick.
In a couple of minutes I heard
voices, and Mac and this Harris
came out of the bush by the
road. They were wearing over-
alls, and they chucked two
bundles of clothing in the car.
Then they walked back to where
Johnnie and I sat in the truck.
“Just been changing,” Mac
said to Johnnie. “HowTe you
going. Red?”
“I’m wondering where I’m
going,” I said. Mac laughed.
It wasn’t much of a laugh.
Johnnie stubbed out a smoke
on the dash and turned to me.
“We’re going to hold up the
Halford bank. Red,” he said.
When I could say something
I said “Jeez! You’re crazy!”
“We’re not crazy. Red,”
Johnnie said. “We’ve studied
it. It’s a pushover. We’re a
man short, that’s all. We want
you to drive.”
OUT of the corner of my eye
I saw what Harris was
doing. He was a long, stringy
bloke with a deep-lined face.
Sallow. Kind of face you see
on a ship’s-engineer. Sunburnt,
it could be, on a cattleman.
Harris had pulled a gun from
the thigh-pocket of his overalls
and was fiddling with it. It was
the sun on it as he twisted it
about made me see it. Harris
put this gun back in his thigh-
pocket and pulled another gun
out of his hip-pocket and was
checking that one, too.
I looked at Johnnie again.
“God, Johnnie, you all got
guns?” I stuttered, I was
scared. Everything about the
set-up scared me.
“Sure thing, Red,” Johnnie
said. “You don’t stick-up a
bank without guns. They don’t
give it to you.”
Johnnie said, “Look, Red,
we’ve got this thing timed.
Can’t sit here much longer.
We’re not fooling. We want
you to drive. If you do you’ll
get a thousand quid. Enough
to take a trip and see your
ancestors in the Old Country.”
“Someone’ll be seeing his
ancestors,” I said. He’d picked
a crook word. “What if I don’t
drive?”
“There’s no ‘don’t,’ Red,”
Johnnie said. “Not now.”
We were sitting in the truck-
cabin, Johnnie and me, with
Mac and Harris standing casual
down there in the sun. Bush
along both sides of the road.
Birds singing out. The day
warming-up like any other day.
And this thing going on. I had
to force myself to keep believ-
ing it. I believed it when I
thought about what Johnnie had
just said.
“0.K.,” I said.
“Want a gun?” Mac said.
“Not at any price,” I said.
“I’m just the driver.”
“Just as you like.”
Johnnie and I got down from
the truck. Johnnie got a two-
gallon petrol-tin and some hose
from the junk in the back. He
filled the petrol-tin from the
Buick tank and put the tin in
the car. Harris was taking the
Buick’s radio out. He got the
Buick’s hub-caps and spare
wheel and put the lot in the
truck under the junk.
“Will the truck be all right
left here?” I said.
“Who’s going to worry about
a truck loaded with junk?”
Johnnie said. “All set? Let’s
get it over.”
Mac sat beside me in the
front of the Buick. Johnnie and
Harris sat behind. I guess they
were still watching me pretty
close. I started up and headed
out towards Halford. They
were talking now about the job.
TTALFORD’S just a one-
** horse town about thirty
miles west of the city. Johnnie
had become a customer, to study
the bank. Three men worked
in it. Manager, ledger-keeper
and teller.
At twelve-o’clock every day
this teller left the bank for
lunch. It was eleven-thirty now.
Johnnie had the hold-up fixed
for a few minutes after twelve.
Teller gone, only two men to
handle, and nobody much
around town anyway. Most
people home cooling-off or
having lunch. No hotel at Hal-
ford. One a couple of miles
further on.
I drove along this road to
Halford, taking it easy to get
there after twelve. Bushy
country. Some sugarcane, a few
banana-farms and dairyfarms.
Passed a couple of timber-
cutters carrying axes, and later
on a kid on a horse. No other
people.
Beside me Mac pulled out a
dark-colored handkerchief and
knotted it behind his neck. I
looked in the mirror and
Johnnie and Harris had dirty
handkerchiefs knotted loose
round their necks like sweat-
rags. They all had sun-glasses
on now. There was no more
talk. Johnnie had told me what
to do. Simple.
Sure, there wasn’t a thing to
stop me hitting the accelerator
and beating it while they were
in the bank. I’d be out of it.
But one of them might get out
of it. I had a wife and kids.
It was certain sometime they’d
get square.
And if I stuck with them and
the thing came off I might get a
thousand quid. Something to
think about. 1 thought about
it all right, driving the blue
Buick along to Halford. I
stuck with them.
I drove slow into Halford.
Past a sawmill and a weather-
board butcher’s-shop. Couple
of board-houses opposite with
verandas, but no one on them.
People all inside resting-up and
getting ready to eat. The street
was straight, wide and empty.
The bank was halfway along
on the right-hand side. Bit
further on and opposite was a
store with a post-office sign in
front. I stopped over opposite
the bank and Mac got out from
beside me and started to walk
across the road. He had two
guns, still in his overall pockets.
I drove on down the street and
turned and came back on the
same side as the bank and point-
ing back the way we’d come in.
I pulled up in front of the
bank and Johnnie and Harris
got out from the back seat.
They had two guns each, loaded,
like Mac. Mac met them there
on the pavement and they all
had sun-glasses on and those
dirty handkerchiefs round their
necks like sweatrags. I saw
them pulling the handkerchiefs
up over their faces, and Johnnie
and Mac and Harris walked
into the bank.. It was twelve-
fifteen.
I kept the motor running.
TPHE bank had two windows
on to the street, and they
were open because it was hot.
Johnnie and Mac and Harris
must have been barely inside
when a black leather briefcase
shot out one of these windows
and plunked on the pavement
near the car.
I had the door open and
snatched it in in a, second. I
didn’t reckon Johnnie or the
other two could have thrown it
out or even seen it. You get
sucked into the spirit of a job
like this. You’re taking risks
and you’re out for what you
can get. I ripped this bag open
and there were three packs ol
notes in it tied with rubber-
bands. Some cheques, too. 1
left them in there.
1 broke the packs and stowed
the notes all over my pockets.
Not much bulge. I lifted the
seat and stuffed the bag under
it. I’d guessed the Buick was
going to be burnt, anyway. Be-
cause of the tin of petrol Johnn e
had put in it. They’d pinched
the Buick in town. T
Nothing else happened that i
could see, except I did hea
SwSaMUen
St °Time’ stretched out {J ke
a dentist drills on the ■
The car was getting red-h
standing in the sun. My
{Continued on pQB e
THE IRISH CAPTAIN
O ring bells, sing gulls loud in the harbor
a slow and grey-clear sunlight day;
he is dead, this Irish captain, legend, father,
in his great bed laid
with hard sheets and brass knobs polished gold.
He is dead and would not have us mourn
his life or the reckless tales he told;
or even for a man who’d known
the world from north to south, from fifteen
to sixty—and landed in this southern port
with a pottering harbor job,
a captain’s cap and a mended pipe;
whose years of ships ran wild and loose
till out of their flux his old age found
joy in reading, roses,
a menagerie of birds.
Horizons curving through his words
led us outwards where his life began
and ended, a chart of tell-tale seas,
in the same port, an older and the same man.
Nor ask the meaning of our lives
today now he is dead, for the spring ground
&nd land will take him though he wished the sea.
But ring bells, sing gulls:
O praise this man, his quick obscure pride
though words nor thoughts can bury him.
Details over into the tide:
we will forget him in the headstone shade.
His colored foreign birds, his bamboo trees
outlive, bear witness to a journey done.
This Irish captain, more than any name,
a heavy, kindly, often difficult cursing man
had all the wisdom of the seven seas
locked in the puzzle of his frown.
He would not have us sad: his qualities
we lack, the qualities we mourn—
he would not find them as his own.
So ring bells, sing gulls
for a man who loved and hoped and grieved.
We must be happy for the charts he gave.
Rejoice
O in his life around the unknown cape
and in his courage. Rejoice and not forget
that we are left these memories, this map
that we may steer our own lives into shape.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


PRODUCTS OF THE
ROOTER
GROUP^f
$
. •• ;
„V
7T !*- B
»x®
WSmStr-:-.
••••>•- ■*':
~S
I ‘*fc
S»
£
★ Entirely New O.H.Y. Engine
★ Up to 35 Miles per gallon
★ Superb top gear performance
★ Flashing acceleration
★ Smoother, quieter running
★ Brilliant new body styling
★ Brakes 40% stronger, safer
THE LOWEST PRICED
BIG CAR IN AUSTRALIA
£1199
plus sales tax
OVERDRIVE (optional extra) -
gives even better top gear performance,
prolonged engine life, and 10%
greater fuel economy.
• :
11
New Overhead Valve
By appointment to the
late King George VI
Motor Car Manu-
facturers Humber Ltd.
111
D
D
t
DISTRIBUTORS FOR HUMBER LIMITED
QUEENSLAND; John McGrath Motors (Qld.) Pty. Ltd., 324 Wickham
Street, The Valley, Brisbane. Telephone; L 4871.
NEW SOUTH WALES: John McGrath Motors (Pty.) Ltd., 255-259
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. Telephone: MA 6838.
VICTORIA: Neal’s Motors Pty. Ltd., 222 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: FB 3481.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Commercial Motor Vehicles Ltd., 165 Franklin
Street, Adelaide. Telephone; LA 2201.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd., 900 Hay Street,
Perth. Telephone; BA 9361.
TASMANIA; D. L. Hollis Motors Pty. Ltd., York and St. John Streets,
Launceston. Telephone; 1676.


THE FACTS ABOUT THE
AGA COOKER
Regd. Trade Mark
are so remarkable they seem
almost too good to be true . . .
AGA burns continuously, day and night! Cooks by itself
. . . unwatched and unaided!
AGA provides hot water, too; all you could reasonably want
for kitchen, laundry and bathroom.
AGA is more economical ... its fuel consumption is
guaranteed never to exceed a definite, and very
modest, figure per year, no matter how much nor
how long you cook!
AGA's insulation is amazing . . . cool to work with, the
Cooker helps to "air condition” the kitchen.
AGA's refuelling takes, only approximately ten minutes
per day, that’s all the attention AGA asks.
AGA is scientifically planned . . . temperatures are auto-
matically adjusted by thermostat . . . always “just
right” to cook immediately.
■K The correct grade
of coke now in
ample supply.
LEVIN AND CO. LTD.
(Established In N.Z. In 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for
AGA COOKER AND BENDIX HOME WASHER
POST ID-DAY FOR A FREE LEAFLET
NEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _ _ _ _ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Sts., Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
SB
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS; MALLOCH BROS. LTD.. Perth
r °* U ut N l"o
Z t “* i *°°2psX i,u
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
kup m
AjPcttlS
V*o<!
r-vT!
SANDERS#
Correspondence, t
•tenement*, ale., filed In th«
"Sander*" can be »ecur®ly
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the ®nd o i each month —or
any other period.
rrtea
tl>#r
»pn
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lift,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents — m ...
MELBOURNE ~ Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon A Son* Ltd.
PERTH •• ..Docket Book Op*■ (AM**!
was as dry as a sermon, with
what was going on in the bank
and the money in my pockets.
I was wide open to cop it both
ways.
When Johnnie and Mac and
Harris came out of the bank
again my watch said six minutes.
It was a liar. They’d been in
there a year. They came out
carrying a sack and their guns.
Johnnie and Mac each had a
hold on the sack and a gun still
in their spare hands. Harris
had both his guns.
I had the doors open and
Johnnie and Mac piled in the
back with the sack and Harris
slid in beside me in front.
“Get going quick,” Harris
said.
I’d kept the'"motor running
and was going quick before he’d
said it. I sent the Buick flat-
out back along the road towards
the Black Mountain turn-off
w-here I’d left the truck. I
didn’t see any farms this time.
The Buick was shifting on the
road-surface and lifting out on
the corners.
“Steady, Red, don’t spoil it
now,” Johnnie said from the
back.
I said “Thank God you
didn’t shoot.”
“Not yet, anyway,” Johnnie
said.
Near the turn-off Harris said
“Slow down,” and showed me a
rough track running off into
the bush. I drove up this a
short way to a gate. Harris got
out and opened the gate and
we drove through. There was
bush all round.
“This’ll do,” Johnnie said.
“Quick, now.”
TlfE all jumped out of the
Buick and grabbed out the
money in the sack and the guns
and the bundles of clothing. It
was about ten-to-one. Mac
pulled out the tin of petrol
Johnnie had put in and emptied
it over the car and poured
some in on the seats. Johnnie
put a match to it and let it go.
Mac and Harris peeled off their
overalls and threw them in the
fire. Then they got into their
city togs. Johnnie took off his
Yank jacket and felt hat and
threw them at the fire. They all
threw their sun-glasses in, too.
I’d been dressed the same all
through. Green Army-pants
and shirt. No hat. Everyone
was pretty excited.
They still hung on to their
guns. We carried the money and
guns through the bush to the
truck and put them in the back
% under the junk. We found the
truck easy through the bush by
the big gumtree. My truck had
a covered deck at the back.
Johnnie and Mac and Harris all
got in the back and I drove
towards Koorangie, where I’d
met Johnnie that morning.
We were passing an old Army
camp where there used to be
Jap prisoners when Johnnie
tapped me on the back and
said “Pull in.”
I pulled the truck in there off
the side of the road and we split
" up the money.
Johnnie was making a rough
count in the back of the truck.
“There’s no thousand for you,
Red,” he said. “Or for anyone
else. Looks like only about five-
hundred altogether. Bloody
queer, that.”
There seemed to be a hell of
a lot of silver being chucked
around in the back of the truck.
I wondered how much real
money I was carrying stuffed in
my shirt and pants pockets.
Whatever it was, it was still
dynamite. I was anxious to part
company with these blokes first '
chance. They were talking a bit
now about the job, but quiet.
“Gawd, that phone-call shook
me,” Mac said. “I told you
don’t answer it, Johnnie. What
the hell did you touch it for?”
“Wake up to yourself, Mac,”
Johnnie said. “Suppose nobody
answers a bank phone in busi-
ness hours there’s sure to be
some kind of panic. Ten to
one it’s on now, anyway. She
sounded queer about my voice.”
While Johnnie was talking he
was sorting-out the money,
flicking notes and rattling coins
into piles like he’d been a teller
himself some time.
‘What did you do with the
bank coves?” I said.
“Locked them in the safe,”
Johnnie said.
“Won’t they suffocate or
something?’”
“They’re jake. One-o’clock
te^er comes back from lunch,
or sooner if that bloody switch-
girl starts singing out. He’ll let
them out.
Johnnie leaned forward from
ac k the truck and put
s^ me n °tcs and a big pile of
s *t^® r on the seat near me.
v seventy quid, Red.
■ °, ur s^are t or driving. Got
ov S5 alto-
S et her OTL
r . s ■ ° ass me a a -
passed me a sugarbag
from the back and I put the
money in it. I put the bag under
the seat of the truck. I was glad
I was sitting in front with my
back to them and not moving
about much. The bulges in my
three pants-pockets and two
shirt-pockets were beginning to
feel like I had pineapples in
there. Pineapple-bombs. .
Mac and Harris were saying
something about crook luck get-
ting so little, and what the hell
sort of a bank was it that only
had five-hundred pounds.
“They haven’t got us,”
Johnnie said. “And we didn’t
have to shoot. That’s luck.”
He thought a moment and said
“And if they catch up with us
now we don’t shoot. Not for
five-hundred quid.”
“I’ll shoot any bastard that
talks,” Mac said. He was pretty
bitter. Johnnie and Harris were
calm.
“After we split-up your
shooting’s your own business,
Johnnie said. "If you pull that
Melbourne panic act again
while I’m with you I’ll do some
shooting. 0.K.?
\VfHAT the Melbourne thing
was I didn’t know. I
didn’t care. 1 was getting
panicky now myself. They
seemed slow splitting the money.
But they’d seemed slow doing
the bank over. Nerves. We’d
only been stopped here six or
seven minutes, I wanted to get
clear of them and look like an
honest truck-driver again.
I was getting worried about
tin truck. Back there on the
Halford road when 1 said O.K.
to Johnnie I wasn’t thinking
about the truck. They’d pinched
the Buick in town. No link with
us. But there was plenty of link
between the truck and me. It
was mine. It was hanging round
my neck now like the albatross
on that bloke.
This truck of mine stood a
long time near where we burnt
the Buick. Didn’t seem to be
people about to see it; but we
were away from there a good
while going to Halford and
sticking-up the bank and coming
back.
I thought, someone’s going to
find the burnt Buick and tell the
police. Police’ll go talking to
everyone around there. Some-
one’s only got to say they saw
the truck parked near where the
fire was and say what the truck
looked like and the truck’ll
scream Leary was in the job.
I got dummied into this job off
balance. I didn’t think about
this trap. Now I had to get
away and do some thinking
about it. ' And not look eager.
The notes bunched in my
pockets were as hot as mustard-
plasters. And I couldn’t look
keen to go. Johnnie and Mac
and Harris were geared-up and
overrevving and seeing ten times
as sharp as normal. Johnnie
and Harris looked calm, but I
knew that’s how they were
inside.
No help from these blokes
about the truck. I’d got the
feeling of the meeting. Once
the money’s split it’s every man
for himself. I was thinking so
deep I didn’t hear Johnnie the
first time.
“Come out of it, Red,” he was
saying. “Drive on to Koo-
rangie.”
I pulled out on the road and
drove on to Koorangie. I drove
past the garage where I’d got
petrol and met Johnnie and put
the junk on.
“Hold her,” Johnnie said.
I pulled to the side and
stopped. It was a bit after two.
Mac and Harris got down over
the back of the truck and stood
on the road. I looked back and
saw Johnnie handing a bag
down.
“Lose them,” Johnnie said. I
guessed it was the guns. Then
Johnnie got down too and
walked round and climbed up
beside me.
“So long. Red,” Mac said,
standing down there. “Be see-
ing you, Johnnie.” Then he
went back to where Harris was
standing with the bag of guns
and they walked away. I was
glad Mac went. He was too
steamed-up. And snaky about
not much money in the bank.
And still all set to shoot. I felt
a lot better when he walked off
with Harris. If he’d got the idea
I was holding-out he’d have
shot me. 1 felt better; but not
real good.
6 going again, Red,”
Johnnie said. “Give up
daydreaming.”
I drove on for the city. “I
was just thinking about Mac,”
1 told Johnnie.
“Mac on a job’s like a kid on
bunger-night,” Johnnie said.
“Likes to hear bang-bang. You
don’t have to shoot. Mac can’t
see it. Only time you shoot’s
when the rake-off’s big and
you’re cornered and shooting
looks a way out. Mac used his
gun in Melbourne when the pay-
clerk had his hands up anyway.
That’s why he’s up here. Had
to pull him in on this. We were
short.”
The longest talk I’d heard
from Johnnie. I fell better be-
cause he was talking. Meant I
was still O.K. I hoped it meant
that. I was O.K. by the thick-
ness of a shirt pocket. I still
didn’t feel real good.
There’s a big hotel on the left
as you get in near the city. The
Kentucky. It’s got a big fig-tree
in front. It was only a few
hundred yards ahead, and I
needed a drink. I wasn’t game
to try it. Wasn’t game to get
out and show these loaded
pockets too much. Sitting driv-
ing was O.K.
“Hold her at the pub. Red,”
Johnnie said. “We’ll have a
drink on it.”
“Hell, why not?” I said. I
was going to need this drink.
Because I was having it. Bad
because it was about two-thirty
and not many drinking in the
bar. I’d have felt better jammed
in a crowd.
About three-o’clock we got
back in the truck and I drove
on.
“Don’t hit anything smelling
of it,” Johnnie said. “Don’t
want them going through us at
the watchhouse now.”
Yeah. I could see them going
through me at the watchhouse.
THE DANCERS
I reached that waterhole, its mud designed
by tracks of egret, finch and jabiroo,
while in the coming night the moon declined :
a feather floating from a cockatoo.
Ten paces more and there, in painted mime,
against the mountain like a stone-axe dropped,
the spirit-trees stood stricken from the time
the song-sticks, song-man and the drone-pipe stopped.
Some thrust their arms and hands out in the air,
and some were struck, contorted, on their knees ;
and deep and still the leaves like unbound hair
lay over limbs and torsos of those trees.
Over their limbs their night-still tresses slept ;
faint in the stars a wandering night-bird creaked.
Then, as towards their company I stepped,
the whole misshapen tribe awoke and shrieked.
And, beating from their limbs and leaves, white birds
like spirits in a terror of strange birth
streamed out with harsh and inarticulate words
above the plains, mountains and trees of earth.
N s - W -
ROLAND E. ROHINSON.


Missing Friend
Estate of ARTHUR ALLEN HARRIS
Deceased.
WHEREABOUTS are sought of ALLEN
MORGAN HARRIS, son of the above-
named, or his wife, children or legal
representatives. NOTICE IS HEREBY
GR-VEN that such persons are before
the Fifteenth day of February, 1954, to
send to ARCHIE LIONEL HARRIS, of
173 Jeffcott Street, North Adelaide,
South Australia, surviving trustee of the
wffl of ARTHUR ALLEN HARRIS, de-
ceased, full particulars of any claim that
ALLEN MORGAN HARRIS or his issue
has, have or had to share in the estate
of ARTHUR ALLEN HARRIS, deceased,
under his will, otherwise he, she or they
will be excluded from the distribution of
the estate. N. 8.; ARTHUR ALLEN
HARRIS died on 18th August, 1918, and
his estate became distributable in 1940.
ALLEN MORGAN HARRIS was last heard
of in Sydney about 16 years ago. In-
serted by direction of the Supreme Court
of South Australia.—PlCKEßlNG, COR-
NISH & LEMPRIERE ABBOTT, Solicitors
for the Trustee.
Whichever way you look at it ...
YAIXHAU UTILITY
gives top value
In smart good looks ... in payload capacity
. . . in engineering excellence the versatile
Yauxhall 10 cwt. Coupe-Utility is top value.
Sturdily built on a rugged chassis frame, the
Yauxhall Utility is a tough dependable worker
. . . yet after hours, readily doubles as a stylish
3-passenger Coupe.
CHOICE OF POWER
UNITS
For good performance with
excellent economy there’s
the 4 cyl. 15.63 h.p. O.H.Y.
“over-square” Wyvem en-
gine ; while for good econ-
omy with outstanding per-
formance the 6 cyl. 23.44
h.p. O.H.Y. “over-square”
Velox engine is available.
Both vehicles are full 10
cwt. capacity.
List price, Wyvern £B9O
plus Sales Tax.
List price, Velox £950
plus Sales Tax.
IMPORTANT DIMENSIONS
AND FEATURES
it Length of body floor
(internal) 80".
■At Floor length tailboard
down 101".
it All-steel body with hard-
wood floor.
■At Rugged, cruciform
Chassis Frame.
it 3-speed synchromesh
gearbox.
it Luxurious full-width
front seat (56|").
Ask your Vauxhall dealer about the G.M.A.C. Confidential
Hire Purchase Arrangements. Ask your dealer too, about the
built-for- Vauxhall “Airchief" l Car Radio.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
VU29-33.
Emptying these pockets. The
picture knocked the grog out of
my head. I drove careful.
I was waiting for the green-
light at Clark-street when
Johnnie said to drive to Maranga.
Suburb north of town. I took
it easy over the city bridge and
out to Maranga. Johnnie talked
a bit more about the job. What
happened in the bank.
“Rocked me when we went
in,” Johnnie said. “Customer
in there.”
First I’d heard of a customer
in the bank. I let Johnnie go
on.
“I knew him,” Johnnie said.
‘Been watching him like the
rest of it about the job. Brings
money in from cattle-sales Mon-
days in the morning. Some big
cattle places round Halford.
Sales are on Saturdays. No
bank Saturday afternoons. This
“Gettin th' ten-thousand quid Was easy—and I didn't
leave th' cops a clue.”
customer brings it in Monday
mornings. Plenty of it cash.
Some cheques. He was drag-
ging the chain today; in there
after twelve.”
I started to get dry in the
mouth. Wondering what was
coming. You wouldn’t know
with this Johnnie.
“Hell, you had to front three
blokes after all,” I said. “Did
you bung him in the safe?”
“Sure thing,” Johnnie said.
“Nothing to it. One customer
don’t hurt. Can’t go for a gun.
Mac and Harris were up on
the counter covering the bank
blokes. I made this customer
climb over and get with them.
“Like I said, this cattle-money
counted in the job. Shook me
when he was in there earlier
than I’d timed him. Sort of
thing makes you jump on a job.
Anyway, main thing seemed he
was in there and we hadn’t
missed him.”
“Light a smoke for me,
Johnnie,” I said.
Had to say something. Johnnie
lit one and passed it across. I
was thinking, does Johnnie
know what I’ve done, and are
we driving out here so he can
do something about it. Think-
ing did Mac take all the guns
in the bag at Koorangie.
“Mac and Harris didn’t talk
about this bloke,” I said.
“I’d been watching him,”
Johnnie said. “For weeks. Like
everything else about the job.
Mac and Harris didn’t know he
counted in the job. Just a cus-
tomer to them.
“Like I said a while back, I
felt something wrong seeing the
cattle-bloke in there late. Then
I thought it’s O.K. He’s here ;
the money’s here. The real
money. Right. Something was
wrong. It’s got me beat. I can’t
sort it.”
We were running through
Maranga now. Along a street
near the old quarry.
“Pull up near the quarry,”
Johnnie said. “Switch her off
for a while. Have a smoke. No
rush now.”
I DIDN’T say anything. Took
one of Johnnie’s smokes and
lit it and dragged at it. I was
thinking in about three direc-
tions at once, and doing about
as good as you do when your
thinking scatters. It was a
pretty empty street, near the
end of Maranga. There was a
car parked a couple of hundred
yards on and a woman leaning
into it talking to someone. No
other people. It was near this
old quarry.
“What was wrong, Johnnie?”
I said.
“No cattle-money,” Johnnie
said. “Fd told Mac and Harris
there’d be plenty in the rake-off.
I meant the cattle-money. The
bloke was in there that brings
it all the time on Mondays. He
didn’t have it. The bank didn’t
have it. Only that five-hundred
quid in scraps. It’s got me beat.
I had a look at Johnnie. He
didn’t look mad. He looked like
he’d seen Darby Munro pull in
last. That’s all. But you
wouldn’t know with this
Johnnie. I didn’t know. Tell
you, it was getting me.
“Did you go through this
bloke?” I said.
“Sure thing,” Johnnie said.
“Like I said, Mac and Harris
were up there on the counter
with the guns on the bank
blokes. I had the cattle feller
get over with them. Then I
climbed over too and went
through him. Only the usual.
Few quid in a wallet. No cattle-
roll. Not even a bag. Other
Mondays he had a black bag.
Right. I reckoned it was some-
where in the bank. I went
through the safe while Mac and
Harris kept it on them. Then we
ran them in there and locked
the safe. Then we went through
the bank. Harris watched the
door. Only the dough we split.
Where was that black bag with
the cattle-dough?”
Johnnie was getting steamed-
up a bit. First time that day.
But nothing like as steamed-up
as I was. I just kept looking out
over the engine and along the
street.
I saw Johnnie’s hand move.
His hand went over to the dash
and stubbed-out his smoke.
“I don’t reckon we’ll ever
sort that ope out,” Johnnie said.
He pushed his hat back on his
head and rubbed his face with
his hand.
“We’re lucky we got away and
we’re still in the clear,” Johnnie
said then. “That’s the way to
see it. Red. And we didn’t have
to shoot. Like I said, you don’t
have to shoot.”
“Yeah. Lucky we’re still in
the clear,” I said. I felt like
I’d won a lottery or something.
I felt like a balloon. In the
clear. In the clear with Johnnie.
I didn’t even switch to thinking
about the truck. Not then.
“That old quarry,” Johnnie
was saying. “It’s got a junk-
dump over the back of it. When
I get out pull round there.
Dump all this junk out of the
truck. 0.K.?” •
I thought, this Johnnie thinks
of everything. Thank God he
doesn’t think of one thing.
“ ’Bye, Red,” Johnnie said.
“Watch it.”
“It’ll be jake,” I said.
Johnnie banged me on the
back with his hand and got
down out of the truck and
walked away.
I started up and drove round
the back of this Maranga
quarry. I saw the junk-heap
there like Johnnie said. I
dumped the old car-bodies and
other rubbish off the back of
the truck on to this junk-heap.
Then I drove the truck home
and ran it into the garage.
■VTOTHING I could do about
the truck. It had stood out
near where we’d burnt the blue
Buick. No way of altering that
now. I switched to thinking I
was clear of Johnnie and Mac
and Harris. It was a better
thing to think about. There
seemed to be nobody moving
about in the house. I went in.
It was twenty-past-four. Susie
was out. With neighbors or
along at the shop. The older
kids weren’t back from school.
Young Mike was asleep.
I went back into the garage
and got the bag of money out
from under the seat of the truck.
I spilled it out on the seat. There
was twenty-three quid in notes
and about fifty in silver. A
hell of a lot of silver. I put the
silver back in the bag and put it
under the house where I kept a
lot of bags for packing in the
truck. I put the other bags on
top of the silver.
I went back in the garage and
put the twenty-three quid in
notes up in the rafters under the
roof. I sat up in the truck
again and shut the door and
pulled the notes out of my
pockets on to the seat. Mostly
tenners. Some fivers and singles.
X counted about half of it.
About half of it was a hundred
tenners. I got out of the truck
and put all these notes except
one up in the rafters like the
others. I kept one tenner to
show Susie for the job.
Then I went back in the
house and sat down and started
to think about the truck again.
I started to sweat and shake a
bit and my head felt hot. I
didn’t want to be like that when
Susie came in. I pulled a bottle
of beer out of the freezer and
opened it and poured most of
it down in one go. When I
could breathe again I drank the
rest of it. Then I sat down and
had a smoke.
I kept banging my head
against all sorts of ideas about
the truck.
iiVT'EAH, it was the truck all
A right,” said the big man
in the brown suit. He scraped
bis chair back and turned to the
man scribbling at a table in the
corner.
“Get it typed out,” the big
man said, “and have him sign
it. Then we can all get some
sleep. You know how to kick it
off. Statement by accused
Leary.”


ATLANTIC
FHIGHEST OCTANE
• Greater Anti-Knock Power
For protection against power-loss from
engine knock.
• More Miles Per Gallon
With less power-loss, your cor goes further
on the same amount of gasoline.
• Vapour Lock Control
No more annoying-vapour lock to stall you
in traffic or on long, hot weather runs.
• Faster Starting and Warm-up
Vour engine starts instantly, warms up
gives maximum power in the*
shortest time.
■ dial Rwer Additives
• Stop Pre-jgnition
New additive controls glowing carbon de-
posits which cause pre-ignition ping.
_ shortesf
Mt.
• Prevent Spark Plug Misfiring
New additive insulates spark plug deposits
—keeps plugs'from misfiring;
• Control Carburettor Icing
Another new additive stops stalling due to
formation of ice on the throttle plate.
• Control Engine-formed Gum
Still another new additive combats gum
formation in carburettors' and automatic
chokes.
MQREJTHAN EVER
Happy Ntefoiwuj *
FROM YOUR
RETAILER
ATLANTIC
AP6-54.
Missing Beneficiary
RE ESTATE OF JOHN H. FRANCIS.
WILL DONALD FRANCIS, who was born
at Moyston, Victoria, on 2nd January,
1866, son of CHARLES ARTHUR
FRANCIS and MARY FRANCIS (formerly
MATHESON), or his children, or any
person having information about them,
please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Victoria.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copies of Saturdee by
Norman Lindsay, The Pea Pickers by
Eve Langley and Smiley by Moore
Raymond.—s 943.
Writer engaged on biography and
bibliography of Francis Adams, who
was in Australia in the eighteen-
nineties, welcomes references to his
contributions to periodicals.—s 944.
Married couple, Sydney, one small
child, urgently require furnished flat,
small cottage, or room with cooking
conveniences. Cannot afford fancy
rentals.—s9sl.
To buy copy of Outback Occupa-
tions by Charles Shaw.—s 949,
To buy Volume 22 (POL-REF) of
the Eleventh Edition of The Encyclo-
pcedia Britannica. —s9so.
To buy copy of Rogue’s Paradise
by H. Crittenden.—s94B.
Information Sought
Some details concerning Nelson
Illingworth, the Australian sculptor?
Nelson Illingworth was born at
Portsmouth, England, in 1862. He
studied at the Lambeth art-school
and worked as a modeller at the
Doulton potteries. He emigrated to
Sydney in 1892, and in 1895 his Head
of an Australian Aboriginal was
bought for the national gallery at
Sydney. Other busts were purchased
for the same gallery in 1896 and 1900.
Illingworth did some architectural
sculpture for buildings in Sydney, and
a large number of portrait busts of
notable men of his time. He also
went to New Zealand and modelled
some busts of Maori chiefs for the
Government. He was preparing
models for the Henry Lawson statue
competition when he died suddenly
on June 26, 1926. He was a well-
known and well-liked figure in the
art world of Sydney. For further
information see William Moore’s The
Story of Australian Art.
* * • •
(1) Names of the three highest
mountains in Australia ? (2) Highest
mountain in Victoria ? (i) Height of
Ml. Buffalo {Vic.) ? (4) Which are
the three longest railway-platforms in
Australia ?
(1) Kosciusko (7328 ft.), Townsend
(7236 ft.), Twynam (7200 ft.). All three
are in the Southern Alps, on the
Monaro tableland (N.S.W.). (Heights
are those given by the Australian
Encyclopedia.) (2) Mt. Bogong
(6509 ft.). Feathertop is next-highest
(6306 ft.). (3) 5645 ft. (4) Flinders-
street, Melbourne (2097 ft.); Albury,
N.S.W. (1510 ft.); Cronulla, N.S.W.
(1275 ft.),
* * * «
How are Papua and New Guinea
governed?
The Administration of both terri-
tories derives its authority from the
Australian Government, which dele-
gates its authority, in respect to the
territories, to the Department of Ter-
ritories; the department, in turn,
delegates authority to the Administra-
tor of the territories. Subject to direc-
tion by the Australian Minister for
Territories, the Administrator has
complete power to govern; and he
exercises the functions of government
through a number of “Departments
of the Administration of Papua and
New Guinea.” The final decision in
practically all matters —except the
interpretation of the law by the judges
of the territories —lies with the
Administrator and the Minister.
However, both receive advice from
various bodies and institutions —
directors of the several departments
of the Papua-New Guinea Adminis-
tration, the district-commissioners, the
Legislative Council (of Papua and
New Guinea), district and town
advisory-councils and the native
village-councils. The Minister for
Territories, of course, works in close
association with other members of
the Commonwealth Government, and
is also advised by high officials of
the Department of Territories.
• * • *
Difference in the brewing of (J)
beer and lager, (2) mild and bitter
ales ?
(1) Three substances (barley, water
and hops) form the usual basts of the
brewing of alcoholic beverages—rice,
maize, eta, can be substituted for
barley. The preparation of lager
differs from that of ale and stout
chiefly in the pitching temperature
(i.e., the initial temperature of the
wort in the fermenting-vessel), the
slowness of the fermenting process,
the use of “bottom” yeast and the
method of storing at a very low tem-
perature. The action in the prepara-
tion of lager lasts about 12 days as
against three days. (2) Depends mainly
on the amount of hops used —more
in the case of bitter ale.
Brief Answers
8.N.F.: (1) The story has dozens
of facets —all supposed to be true.
(2) Problematical —story is bound
up in (1). Her house of Aspasia was
in Lonsdale-street, Melbourne. (3)
Thomas Walker was the first lecturer
brought from England for the Aus-
tralasian Secular Association, Mel-
bourne. He was a one-time spiritualist.
He was replaced by Joseph Symes—
Walker going to Sydney to take charge
there. He later became a member of
the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly for
Northumberland from 1887 to 1894.
....R.AJ.: (1) Morris Miller’s Aus-
tralian Literature, Turner and
Sutherland’s The Development of
Australian Literature, and Nettie
Palmer’s Modern Australian Litera-
ture. (2) Brian Elliott’s Singing to
the Cattle J.E.A.: While an age-
pension is not payable to a widower if
the net value of his assets exceeds
£1750, your eligibility for pension
would depend on the I.C.V. of the
cottage you own. If you live in this
cottage your eligibility for pen-
sion would be considerably in-
creased, as its value would then
not be taken into account
R.McD.: Write Angus and Robert
son, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.... M.A.L,: “The S.P.C.
Quarterly Bulletin,” obtainable from
the South Pacific Commission, Box
5254, G.P.0., Sydney.... F.S.F.:
Douglas Stewart’s The Flesh and the
Spirit was reviewed by H. M. Green
on “The Red Page” of The Bulletin
of September 22, 1948. Vance
Palmer’s A. G. Stephens: His Life
and Work was reviewed in The
Bulletin, December 17, 1941
M.U.D.: Write Beck Book Co., Ltd.,
17-19 Pulteney-street, Adelaide (S.A.).
R.K.N.: (1) “Overland,” obtain-
able from Box 98a, G.P.0., Mel-
bourne. (2) “Bohemia,” obtainable
from Box 1663, G.P.0., Melbourne.
G.R.: See article “Collecting
Australiana Today” by J. A. Ferguson
in “Biblionews” for September, 1954,
obtainable from Walter Stone, 64
Young-street, Cremorne (N.S.W.).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary,
“Aedo” (Medina, W.A.): Please
send us your name and postal
address... .A.S.: The Religious Edi-
tor paused as he “sipped from the
cup of heady wine” and condemned
them to the basket T.G.: Washed
out with the ebb-tide K.R.: Ode
to milk-cans is a curdled effort
M.McF.: Road to print too hard for
tender feet S.J.M.: Yes, we found
your handwriting legible, but the less
said about your poem the better
S.P.C.: “Winter Morning” never
got warmed up.,..G.J.: One of the
homeless variety G.H.M.: When
last heard the bunyip was wailing in
the basket J.S.: It is in the flot-
sam-and-jetsam class 1.M.C.5.:
All right, let us sing one stanza:
Oh, sing a song of Brighton,
Blue Brighton by the sea ;
Of laughing crowds and roundabouts,
Of sparkling sun and sea;
Of two who gaily lingered there,
And then as gaily rode
From Rockdale to Ramsgate
Along the Brighton road.
. ...A.J.W.; Not up to your usual
form E.R.M.: We left the ex..e
on his knees 8.8.P.L.: Dream
those dreams of youth somewhere
else R.C.8.: You’re a better ring-
barker than a poet W.R.W.: A
trivial trio L.G.: You bear a
famous poet’s name, but you are not
the poet your namesake was
R.J.L.; Says nothing new about the
pioneers P.0.G.: On its way back
across the Tasman... With a
rollicking “Yo ho, heave, ho-ho”
we tossed it down the lift-well
N.S.: Not hanging “Masterpiece” in
our gallery E.C.: Who told you
that was poetry? R.H.S.: More
like a seedman’s catalogue than a
poem R.F.L.: Pleased to note
that the old town is still alive: —
Clattering trams, green demon bus,
Swift motor-cars; eternal fuss,
Footpaths athrong, crowds hurrying past,
Sydney’s pulse beats loud and fast.
L.S.: “Admittedly, this is hardly
the type of poem to submit to a
man’s paper.” Admittedly 8.J.0.;
For Heaven’s sake wipe those tears
away A.H.: Your grandson says
nothing that has not been said before.
D.G.E.: Send your apologies
to A. A. Milne 1.C.: As dry
as a crust that has been out in
the sun K.C.L.: Not badly done
in a conventional way.... J.S.:
Brown eyes seem to be in the
fashion this week H.W.D.: For
one so close to Coogee to write
in praise of Bondi vaguely smacks ol
some sort of disloyalty... .R.J.8.:
Poem received, rejected and returned.
R.McA.: We trust that yours
will be the last wattle poem we will
get this year... .N.D.: You have
taken the wrong turning D.G.K.:
Well, you had better sit down and
wait until the thoughts do come
J. 8.: The drunken cook is now
sobering-up in the basket F.H.C.:
We don’t think that they will be
singing that along the Diamantina.
N.G.: Nothing worth while m
the latest batch... .M.G.: Poem
beginning:
Friends, Commos. Laborites, lend me your
ears; .
I come to bury Bertie, not to praise him
ended up where all such parodies
end P.E.L.H.: Next time you
wake “in the dead of the mghi
screaming with fright,” don’t sit down
and write to us about it. Try a cold
shower... .W.G.L.: Left the ocean
to its mumbling and gurgling....
M.DJ.R.: We have more sunsets
than we know what to do with....
M.U.: Agnes L. Storrie asked for
thirty gallons F.H.L.: If we get
any more poems based on tne
Petrov Inquiry we shall have to
engage a special staff to handle them.
M T K.: You can’t “room, toom,
rattie-dee-din” away in our pages.


In the Age of Elegance
Australia's Early Builders
By M. H. ELLIS
architectural development from
the first mention of the word
“architect” in reference to
Henry Brewer, the versatile
provost-marshal who was
equipped to begin the laying
of the foundations of some-
thing better than the cabbage-
tree and wattle-and-daub huts
which had replaced the first
marquees.
/ A few brick presses were dis-
covered among the jumble of
landed stores, suitable clay was
found not far from the settle-
ment, and James Bloodsworth,
a bricklayer with a flair for
design and general knowledge
of construction, turned up
among the convicts. He had
been convicted at Kingston in
1785 of some trivial offence
which had earned him seven-
years’ transportation, and there-
fore had less than five years of
his sentence to run when he
arrived in N. S. Wales. He was
Australia is the only
country in the world that
can say with certainty
that it knows the com-
plete history of its early archi-
tecture from the moment the
first civilised settler put a pole
into the ground and cut a bit
of cabbage-tree for thatch.
In the light of this fact it is
almost a crime against the
national culture that more
attempt has not been made to
preserve the early buildings,
even though some of them
might have had to be moved
from their original sites and put
up anew. The cost of preserv-
ing the most significant of them
would not have bulked tremen-
dously against the background
of a swelling national economy,
and they would have made a
museum-park for the ages
which would have paid for
itself in tourist-revenue.
The next-best thing has been
done, however, by Morton Her-
man in The Early Australian
Architects and Their Work,
issued by Angus and Robert-
son after careful experiment to
ensure that everything about
the book would be most
efficient in presentation, in the
choice of illustrations and in the
use of color. The result is a
magnificent epitome of samples
of the work of the early archi-
tects, some of whom were
amateurs and military engineers.
It is not quite complete;
on the historical side, Mr.
Herman does not deal ade-
quately with the old Rum
Hospital buildings in Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney, which are
the oldest public-buildings in
N, S. Wales and now form part
of Parliament House and the
offices of the Housing Commis-
sion. And there are historical
statements with which historians
would not always agree, though
few on the architectural side —
indeed, the only one of import-
ance is the positive attribution
of the full plan of Camden Park
to John Verge, who seems to
have been merely the adapter
of English plans.
According to John Mac-
arthur himself at the moipent he
began the building, it was from
“a plan you may see in No. 1
of a set of designs by T. G.
Jackson, published by James
Carpenter and Son, Old Bond-
street,” with “alterations and
modifications” the climate
required.
But it would not be fair to
blame Mr. Herman on this
score, since he apparently had
no access to the relevant papers
and merely accepted the evi-
dence available, as others before
him had done. The matter needs
further investigation.
Australia had no trained
architect until Daniel Dering
Mathew arrived in 1813, the year
before Greenway, but it got on
very well without them up to
that period, having regard to
the primitive needs of the com-
munity, the shortage of lime,
and the general preoccupation
with other things, the most im-
portant of which was that urge
to get out of the country which
governed most of the colony’s
life in the first decades.
It is perhaps a paradox that
the first buildings were erected
by the same process that has
become common in the post-
war years of 1945 onward —the
canvas hut of Phillip, which he
began to inhabit on February
19, 1788, and the original hos-
pital were prefabricated by
Wyattville, the architect of
Sidney Sussex in Cambridge and
the transformer of Windsor
Castle.
From this point onwards Mr.
Herman covers the history of
one of the first pardoned, and
by September, 1791, had reached
the eminence of “superintendent
over the brickmakers and brick-
layers” and became at once a
figure in a rising town. Mr.
Herman for the first time has
assembled his history.
The “Sydney Gazette” re-
ported in 1804 that “the first
house in this part of the
Southern Hemisphere was by
him erected, as most of the
public buildings since have been
under his direction.” He died
that same year, all too early, and
when he was much needed.
He was the only early builder
duly honored when he died —of
pneumonia, following on a
common cold, in his house in
what is now O’Connell-street, He
was the first and only convict on
record in the early autocratic
period to be accorded a military
funeral, with muffled drums and
fifes. Governor King, whatever
his faults, knew how to do the
decent thing by a pioneer.
But then, Bloodsworth’s first
house had been Government
House, even though it had been
no elegant structure. It had
been begun as a three-roomed
cottage with lime-bonded walls,
but it reared its unshapely front
a further story, carried by
a stone foundation and
strengthened at the corners with
stone quoins. Thus it became
the first building in Australia
cemented with mortar, the first
shingled with burnt-clay
shingles, and the only building
in the colony with “a pair of
stairs” and a second story —a
feature which considerably
astonished the savage Arabanoo,
when he beheld, through its
upper windows, men in it
apparently walkihg on other
men’s heads.
Like all other early buildings
which proved too strong for the
tempest or did not immediately
get in the way of progress, it
remained long in a state of
perennial addition, patching and
repair —in fact, until Sir
Edward Blore’s new Govern-
ment House on Bennelong
Point peninsula replaced it in
the early ’forties. It was the
scene of many historic inci-
dents, including the capture of
Bligh. It stood not exactly
where the plaque of the Royal
Australian Historical Society
says it stood, except for its rear-
ward portions, but further out
in Bridge-street and Phillip-
street traffic-ways,
Bloodsworth also built the
GREEN WAY’S STABLES
They were erected 1819-21 as the first building in the grandiose Government House
Plan which was never finished. They are now used as Sydney’s Conservatorium of Music,
but their plan has been overlaid with modern accretions.
“dry-store,” a feature of very
early Sydney. In early pictures
it looks about the size of
Buckingham Palace, though
actually it was 80ft long by 24ft.
wide, with a lofty attic. In 1790
it was the largest building in
Australia, and stood projecting
out into the roadway of what is
now Loftus-street a few yards
from the bottom of Macquarie-
place. And meanwhile, among
the cabbage-tree huts, brick
edifices were beginning to rise on
the slope between the Tank
Stream and Government House,
making Bridge-street the first
real Australian street. Some
rather rickety barracks rose on
the western side of the stream.
Wooden buildings were
painted white, for pipeclay was
plentiful around the Cove.
Bricks and tiles alike were a
light brown, harmonising well
with the surrounding bush.
Soon Wheeler’s gang out at
the Brickfields near Anthony
Horderns’ was very busy—22
men and two boys turning out
40,000 bricks a month; they
were reckoned “moderately
good, worth 245. per thousand
in England.”
There was another very exten-
sive brickyard at Parramatta,
where walls were rising as
quickly as —-presently more
quickly than—in Sydney. There
Becket’s gang, operated—s 2 men
making 25,000 bricks a week, of
a lovely red clearly identifiable
in old buildings. There, too,
grew in profusion the ironbark
which was honored for its
. , .... , . ,
virtues as a building-material
and soon exported.
At first all brick and stone had
to be moved by manpower, for
there was no animal traction m
the colony till 1796., Materials
were drawn in carts harnessed
to 24 men hauling 750 bricks or
to smaller ones with 12 men
dragging 350 bricks weighing
about threequarters of a ton. A
small cart was expected to bring
five loads a day in from Brick-
field Hill to the settlement,
exercise which, leaving out the
heavy hauling, involved a total
walk of about 15 miles a day
over rough tracks and in
harness.
By 1791 both Sydney and
Parramatta had acquired street-
plans laid out by William
Dawes, son of a clerk-of-works
in Portsmouth, and engineer
and artillery-officer, eke astrono-
mer, aboriginal antiquary and
anthropologist to the colony,
The plan was on a lavish scale,
on the presumption that there
was land to burn, with every
building-lot having a 60ft.
frontage and a 150 ft. depth, and
main streets 200 ft. wide sweeping
up the hills.
These plans early went into
the discard. And Dawes, who
became Governor of Sierra
Leone under the patronage of
Wilberforce, after having been
Australia’s first town-planner,
died in obscurity and apparently
in want in the West Indies in
1836.
Meanwhile, domestic archi-
tecture had begun to evolve. The
first substantial private house to
be built was John Macarthur’s
Elizabeth Farm, which was
ready for occupation at the end
of 1793 —“an excellent brick
house, 68ft. in front and 18ft,
in breadth.” It had “no upper
story, but consisted of four
rooms on the ground-floor, a
large hall, closets, cellar, etc.,
with an adjoining kitchen, ser-
vants’ - apartments • and other
necessary offices.”
Mr. Herman says that it was
altered five times in the first 70
years of its existence. In plain
fact it was in a continual fer-
ment of alteration during the
1820’s, when Macarthur himself
had a mania for building. The
front rooms of the present build-
ing still cover approximately
68ft. by 18ft., but the general
plan has been changed—one
which was normal to the convict
era, when kitchen and servants’-
quarters were isolated from the
family living-portion of the
house.
Experiment Cottage is prob-
ably an older building, in
original fabric. It stands
on an adjacent site oh Ruses
old farm, the first free-
hold farm in Australia, where
the old Cornishman “sowed the
first grain.”
Nevertheless, Elizabeth Farm
House —Hambledon Cottage, as
Macarthur himself apparently
named it in his later years—has
historic associations which no
other domestic building of the
autocratic era in Australia has
left us. Its beginnings belong,
to the time which started with
Bloodsworth and reached its
apotheosis in uninspiring public
architecture with the stores
which Foveaux built during the
interregnum after the rebellion
against Bligh, and which stood
until the vandalistic Govern-
ments of Stevens and McKell
pulled them down, along with
Macquarie’s interesting dry-
stores, his first building, to make
way for a £2,000,000 setting for
Messrs. McGirr and Shortell.
The plans of the old stores,
dated February 20, 1809, and
signed by Foveaux, are the
oldest architectural plans which
survive in Australia today; the
next - oldest are those of
Foveaux’s “new” barracks of
1809 on the Wynyard-square
site. Their erection marked the
end, or almost the end, of the
era of makeshift, as the slightly
earlier erection of Ultimo House
by the aspiring Harris brought
new and more magnificent
trends in domestic architecture
and gave the colony something
“altogether in a much higher
style [Mrs. Macquarie said]
than anything we expected to
find in the new world.”
The age of the real archi-
tects followed immediately, as
Macquarie found himself in-
volved in huge building-projects
with builders who followed the
tradition of the colony, which
had now become fixed on the
basis that every erection should
be put up so as to fall down as
quickly as possible and thus
provide new profits for contrac-
tors.
One of the new Governor’s
first cries for aid to the Colonial
Office was for an architect. It
was Fate —and not Castlereagh,
Liverpool or Bathurst —that
sent him the incompetent
Daniel Dering Mathew, whose
plan of the Colonial Secretary’s
house in Bridge-street, the first
public-building designed in
Australia by a trained architect,
Mr. Herman reproduces. The
building was little credit to its
designer, as Greenway, turning
up in February, 1814, soon
showed when he had a chance
to criticise it at the beginning
of the amazing era of develop-
ment which succeeded his
coming.
This era lasted from 1816 —•
when, with inadequate labor
and little or no supporting skill,
Greenway started to set
standards that none was ever to
surpass in the continent and few
to equal—till the seal was placed
on the age in the form of
Blore’s castellated Government
House.
Some of those who left their
marks on the towns were not
architects by profession, but
military engineering experience
or enthusiastic study qualified
them men like Barrallier,
Foveaux, James Smith (a sur-
veyor), Francis Lawless (who
planned St. Peter’s at Campbell-
town) and Lycett (the convict
artist).
But the whole of the 36 whose
names Mr. Herman mentions,
with adequate description and
picturing of their works, con-
tributed to the architectural and
artistic growth of the country,
and he might have mentioned
a few more of the earlier
improvisers—Bean and Bradley,
who did the Rum Hospital
buildings; William Cox, who
carried out extensive building
in the Windsor district, and
whose smattering of military
(i Continued on page 34)


1
SMS
,
Ik
; § 3;
■*i.£
nlv
50
Hospital
☆<s
ri®
ITfAUIANIIND
brandy-
TfAU TaNUN
BRANDY
FLASK
HALF BOTTLE
BOTTLE
First in Quality—First in Favour
CHAIEAITUUNBA
The Brandy of Distinction.
A Product of the House of Seppelt
TUCKER AND CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, AGENTS. ESTB. 1838
CTI
SPORTING NOTIONS
At Caulfield on Saturday
Veiled Peak, who had previously
shown only sprinting ability,
surprised in the £3OOO Eclipse
Stakes (1£ mile). And the High
Peak horse defeated good stayers
in Aldershot and Hellion on a
soggy track. The race was run
in drenching rain, so maybe the
conditions suited the nippy
Veiled Peak.
Flemington trainer Phil Burke
won a double at the boggy Caul-
field meeting, with Arlunya and
Arab Legion. Arlunya had an
easy task in the First Stansmore
Two-year-old; ridden by Ron
Hutchinson, he beat favorite
Percale. Owned by J. P. Stratton,
president of the West Australian
Trotting Association, Arlunya
was having only his second race-
start. At his first outing he
finished third to Knave at
Flemington. Bred in the southern
districts of N.S.W., Arlunya is
by Sun Storm (imp.) from Crown
Appeal by Law Maker (imp.).
Paem, outsider and narrow
winner of the Second Stansmore
Two-year-old and trained by
F. J. Muschialli for P. S. Grim-
wade, is a chestnut colt by
Pamphilos (imp.) from Arleen
by Manfred, and is from a half-
sister to True Law, a winner of
several Melbourne events.
Leonard, a winner of the Cox
Plate at Moonee Valley and the
C. B. Fisher Plate at Fleming-
ton, appears in the bloodlines.
The colt was bred by R. M.
Ansett, of Gunyong Valley Stud,
Mt. Eliza (Vic.).
Big Spree, winner of the two-
miles Queensland Cup, cleared
away from opponents in the
straight and scored by four
lengths over Viscosity and
Glenilly, Former Sydney
gallopers Sea Sovereign and
Lord Saunders were among the
also-ran. It was a weak field.
Stablemates Nilene and Karen
were taken to Brisbane for the
Q.T.C. Oaks Stakes, and the last-
named was sent out favorite.
She beat only one home in the
small field. Nilene finished
third, the classic being won by
maiden galloper Mian Mir, with
Fay Helios second. Mian Mir
is by Jungle King (imp.) from
Voeseen, a mare by Rivoli from
Desert Queen (imp.) by King’s
Zenith.
Persian Link, owned in
Sydney, but now racing in Bris-
bane, won the main sprint at the
Cup meeting, the seven-furlongs
Flying. He was confidently
supported at 6 to 4.
Tatyoon, winner of the
November Handicap (KH
furlongs) at Warwick Farm on
Saturday, has 7.4 in the A.J.C.
Summer Cup (December 27) and
could be one of the prospects in
that mile-and-a-half. Until last
year the Summer Cup had been
run at 13 furlongs ; the furlong
less is favored by most owners
and trainers. Though he cleared
out with the suburban event,
Tatyoon is well down the Cup
betting-list.
Blond Val galloped his way
into Villiers consideration by a
stylish success at Warwick Farm ;
he is now on second line of
favoritism with Silver Phantom.
Birdwood, another of the
Villiers prospects, is expected
to be among the runners at
Randwick this coming Saturday.
He is fit enough to win.
Randwick trainer T. J. Smith,
who had won the first two mid-
week Canterbury Park races
(with Terrie and Apple Bay), also
collected the Warwick Farm
Maiden Two-year-old for fillies
with Penarth, successes which
broke a temporary run of ill-luck
for this successful stable. Apple
Jack, winner of the V.R.C.
Maribyrnong Plate a couple of
seasons ago, is a brother to
Apple Bay. Both are by
Newtown Wonder (imp.) and are
from Silver Words by Talking.
Lady Medallist (Caulfield Cup)
and Moorilla (Sydney Cup)
figure in Apple Bay’s pedigree.
Backed at odds-on in Penarth’s
race at Warwick, Krubi was
never going like a winner.
Penarth, a product of the Wood-
lands stud, Denman (N.S.W.), is
the first of the progeny of French
sire Charleval to win, but this is
the first season his stock have
raced, and others by him are
expected to win soon. Penarth’s
dam, Kismet, is by Bulandshar
(imp.), sire of High Caste, from
Inchkeith by Musketoon (imp.).
Limerick is listed in the pedigree,
as is High Play, winner of 25
races, mostly in New Zealand
and Melbourne. Charleval and
another French sire, Damnos,
whose oldest progeny also are
two-year-olds, were imported by
Woodlands stud a few years ago.
Both had won races for Marcel
Boussac. Charleval won the
Newmarket St. Leger by eight
lengths, while Damnos was one
of the best sprinters of his period.
He won nine races in France and
in England up to 1 mile, 155yds.,
four of them as a two-year-old.
• • • •
Talisman, winner at mile
and at 11 furlongs at his last
“ There's been a protest .”
two starts (both minor events ;
latest of them at Warwick
Farm on Saturday), is engaged
in the Summer Cjip with 7.2,
21b. above the limit. The only
penalty attached to the Cup
applies to the winner of the
Villiers on the first day of the
fixture (December 18), and even
that is at the handicapper’s dis-
cretion. Carioca won both races
two years ago. As Talisman is
proved at the Cup distance, he
could be a real show with 7.2 ;
he carried 8.11 in the Encourage
at Warwick. He’s a four-year-
old son of Midstream (imp.)
and Pennywise.
• • • •
Baystone, bought by his
N.S.W. country owners at the
Randwick yearling sales last
autumn as their first racing ven-
ture, seems a colt with a really
good future. The son of Brim-
stone (imp.) and Unity by Mani-
toba (imp.) cost R. A. N. Burns
HOOgns., and at second race-
start won the Warwick Farm
Junior Maiden Stakes with a
dashing sprint over the final fur-
long or so. He is closely related
to Heroic. The Brimstones are
in their first racing year. The
importation, located at Kia-
Ora stud, Scone (N.S.W.), won
races up to If mile in England,
and is an impressively bred son
of English Derby-winner Dante.
Baystone gallops like a potential
stayer.
The Queen Elizabeth Stakes
(£10,000) at Flemington in
March is to be a main target
for Rising Fast. Later the
champion is expected to be in
Sydney for the Randwick
weight-for-age events and the
Sydney Cup.
Asteroid, a five-year-old
Empyrean gelding who in five
starts in Perth last season won
four times and was second,
could be one of the smartest
performers during the summer
round of Sydney fixtures; he
has made ' good progress since
joining the McCarten stable.
Two of Asteroid’s four wins
were at six furlongs, the other
two at seven. At his final
appearance last season he ran
second in the w.-f.-a. Lee Steere
Stakes (one mile) to Copper
Beech, also now in Sydney.
Both Asteroid and Copper
Beech have Bst. in the Villiers.
The Q.T.C. has decided that
stakemoney for its 1955 fixture
will remain the same as this
year’s, so the three principal
events will be the £lO,OOO Strad-
broke, the £12,000 Brisbane Cup
and the £2500 Moreton Handi-
cap.
r ♦ * *
The Australian team for
the first Test beginning in
Brisbane this Friday looks
as good as could be picked.
The selectors plumped for
past experience and known
reliability; Favell the only new-
comer to Test-cricket. Which is
not to say that there won’t be
more newcomers before the series
is over.
M.C.C. v. N.S.W. was drawn,
with the local side having the
better of it. The M.C.C. batting
in both innings was just about all
Hutton and Cowdrey: Cowdrey
—at 21a big fellow with a frame
already filled-out like an older
man’s —made a century in each
innings (110 and 103). Hutton
also looked like getting the
double, failing by 13 runs in his
second knock (102 and 87).
M.C.C. 252, 327; N.S.W., 382,
2-78.
For N.S.W. there was opener
Watson’s 155, remarkably his
first century in any grade of
cricket; Miller’s bright batting
(82), and, in two shorter knocks
(30 and 27 not out), some really
big hitting by Davidson. New
fast-man Crawford, in his first
State game, did well, while his
Petersham club - mate Bob
Simpson snapped-up six neat
catches.
In Adelaide W.A. beat S.A. on
the first innings, after having the
better of most of the game;
though at the end, after a
spirited burst by pace-bowler
Drennan, actually battling to
stave off outright defeat. (S.A.,
296, 9-366; W.A., 397, 7-185.)
Two century-makers: W.A.
opener Rutherford (167), who in
Perth had made 39 out of 86
for the Combined XI against the
M.C.C.; and Pinch (108 not-out
in S.A.’s second-innings). Also a
good batting double for W.A. by
left-hander Alan Edwards, mak-
ing a comeback (57 and 75).
“Mid-on”: Australia’s new
Test captain, lan Johnson,
appeared to have played his last
Test when he was dropped after
the first Test against South
Africa in 1952. His topping of
Sheffield Shield bowling-averages
and fine leadership of Victoria
last season suggested not only a
comeback to Test-cricket but
possible captaincy. Johnson was
a Beaufighter pilot in the big
test against Japan; also, he’s a
real sportsman. In the fourth
Test against England in 1950-51
he walked-out, when only 3, after
snicking fast-bowler Warr,
though the umpire’s verdict went
his way. “Warr worked hard
enough for 50 wickets, and when
he gets one it’s taken from
him!” (Warr’s bowling-average
in the 1950-51 Tests, 1-261.)
“First Slip”: Early in the
century Victoria had its cricket-
ing twins, Arthur and Frank-
like the Bedsers, pretty well
indistinguishable apart. All-
rounders both, Arthur was the
better of the two, and played for
Victoria in half a dozen Sheffield
Shield games, with fair success.
One day, playing for South Mel-
bourne against Clifton Hill,
opening, he hit a brilliant 58.
Came inevitable collapse, and
South were 6-130 (facing
Clifton Hill’s 154). Sensing
defeat, South’s skipper decided
to bat Arthur again instead of
Frank. Came also objections
from the fieldsmen. “Oh, that
was my brother Frank who
opened. Hey, Frank, come out
and show yourself!” Doubts
allayed, apologies given and
accepted, and the match
resumed, going to South, with
6-170—Arthur, in his second dig,
28 not-out.
“Keima”: In a Queensland
C ricket Association second-
division game in Brisbane Len
Taylor (Oxford Park) took
10-2, including the hat-trick ; the
opposition, Norman Park
Wanderers, were all out for 22.
Despite which Taylor’s team
lost! Making only 25 itself
first dig, it got a round 100 the
second time, and the Wanderers
reached the 104 needed, with
three wickets still to fall.
• * *
In the N.S.W. tennis cham-
pionships at White City it was
the same pair (Rose and Hart-
wig) contesting the singles
final as in the last big cham-
pionships in Sydney—the Aus-
tralian, in February. Then Rose
won; on Saturday, Hartwig,
runner-up this year to Seixas in
the U.S. atid to Hoad -in the
Queensland titles, defeated his
doubles-partner in straight sets,
6-3, 6-4, 8-6.
The doubles title stayed with
its holders, Hoad and Rosewall,
downing Rose and Hartwig in
straight sets, 7-5, 8-6, 6-1.
Hoad, last year’s holder of
the singles title, was beaten by
John Bromwich in straight sets
in a quarter-final. “Brom,”
much of an idol at the White
City, is still a match for the
younger champions. In his
semi-final, against Rose, a
generous waiving of the rules by
Bromwich probably enabled
Rose to recover from a cramp
and go on to win the deciding
fifth set. “Brom’s” defeat of
Hoad recalls a similar surprise
defeat inflicted in the Australian
championships in 1940 on him-
self, when right at his top, by
the then-past-fi/r-best old master
Jack Crawford, also in straight
sets.
♦ * ♦
In Launceston on Saturday
N.S.W. professional Kel Nagle
won the Riverside and Tas-
manian Tyre Service Purse of
£5OO by one stroke from Ossie
Pickworth. Nagle had rounds
of 71, 64, 69, 69 for an aggregate
of 273. Pickworth’s card read
71, 65, 71, 67—274. Peter
Thomson, British Open
champion, finished 10 strokes
behind Nagle in fourth place.
The amateur title went to Johnny
Toogood, who went around in
285.
• * ♦
At his best when, as a light-
weight, he stopped Vic Patrick
back in 1947, Freddie Dawson,
now a heavy welter, had no
trouble doing ditto to Australian
middleweight champ. Alfis
Sands at Leichhardt. Each
weighed 10.12, and they fought
evenly through the first round,
which Sands won by attacking
from start to finish. But Freddie
let loose some heavy stuff in the
second, and round-three had
barely got going when a right to
the chin knocked Sands on all
fours. Two more rights, and
ref. Jack Burns cried enough.
Alan Ritchie (9.5), another
member of the Sands family
(Ritchie’s the right name),
appeared to beat Ray Coleman
(9.9) comfortably in a support-
ing 12-rounder, but they called it
a draw.


On an Australian 'Drome
FLIGHT: Full Circle
By NORMAN KING
FOR the small number of
fighter-pilots who elected
to stay on after the mass
discharges of 1945 and
1946, thereby providing the
nucleus for the abrupt transition-
period from conventional piston-
engined aircraft to operational
jets, Williamtown R.A.A.F,
station has completed a full
circle since it was first commis-
sioned some time in 1941.
Williamtown today is Aus-
tralia’s most important air-
training centre. Now, as in the
early months of 1942, it is also
the first R.A.A.F. fighter-station
to hear the slow drawl of United
States fighter-pilots being given
last-minute training for combat.
Australia’s place in global
strategy has become equally
plain to the R.A.A.F. and the
U.S. Army Air Force; with
Communist expansion in the
Pacific, and technological
advances in the air, it is becom-
ing plainer to other people also.
There is little doubt that the
time is not far distant when many
thousands of American troops —
mostly airmen—will repeat the
peaceful invasion of 1942.
Less than half an hour from
Newcastle by road, and some-
thing like half a minute by Sabre-
jet, Williamtown has seen many
changes which, today, strike one
forcibly as so many examples of
sharp lessons learned in 1942.
Then, one remembers, the later
torrent of American aid was not
even a trickle, and the Yellow
tide was sweeping south at what
seemed an irresistible tempo.
Just how close Australia came to
sharing the fate of most of the
South-East Asian countries is
even now not fully realised by
most of those who, hearing
planes in the sky and seeing
uniformed men in the street at
the time, thought ithey were
adequately protected. Well, the
truth was something less than
that. The whistle-whine of Aus-
tralian-built Sabre-jets over the
station are a more comforting
sound than were the panting
clatter of Wirraways.
Before the Japanese came into
the war, at a time when a good
deal of nonsense was being talked
about the weakest partner of the
Axis having no aircraft-building
industry, Williamtown, north of
Newcastle, was planned as an
R.A.A.F. station, to protect the
vulnerable Newcastle steelworks,
a sprawled mass of smoking
chimneys crouched beside the
muddy shallows of the Hunter
River.
The R.A.A.F. rushed the com-
pletion of the defending ’drome
as a matter of absolute priority,
and a detached flight of No. 22
City of Sydney Squadron was
posted north from Richmond.
One successful enemy bombing-
run over Newcastle steelworks
would have about crippled Aus-
tralia’s defence-effort: so the
flight of Wirraways landed at
Williamtown before the bitumen
was really dry on the long run-
ways and while earth-moving
graders were still working on the
cross-strips.
Thirteen Wirraways defended
Newcastle, but the public was
not told that seven of the little
planes were unserviceable when
the Japanese were sweeping
south, and that the sight of more
than two Wirraways taking-off
together was almost sufficient to
draw all personnel to the edge of
the tarmac to see them in the
air.
The weakness of fighter-cover
over Newcastle one of the
best-kept secrets of the war.
Steel-workers, going in for their
long shifts, never knew that they
were virtually without protection
in the air.
Those were the days when
official spokesmen said the
Japanese had no first-class
operational aircraft; that they
had copied obsolete aircraft of
other nations; that even the old
Hawker Demons, of immediate
post-War-I vintage, could hold
their own in aerial combat with
Jap fighters; that the Japanese
had weak eyes and therefore
were unsuited to air-combat.
And much more of the sort.
To assure Newcastle that it
was adequately defended, the
Wirraways flew continually in
their ones and twos, swooping
down on the steelworks in mock
raids a dozen times a day and
skirting the busy river, with its
shipbuilding yards, to skim the
Army installations along the
sandy foreshores. For the crews
of No. 22 City of Sydney
Squadron detached-flight the
mock attacks on the vast works
and the Army camps became a
ritual, and it was seldom that at
least one Wirraway was not in
the air on patrol.
This, then, was the position
when the Japanese swept south-
ward at incredible speed, and the
world learned overnight that the
Japanese not only had a first-
class air-force, but had fighters
and fighter-pilots of very high
quality. Under this threat the
few dozen airmen who manned
Williamtown prepared to fight, as
the pathetic flight of Wirraways
fought at Rabaul a little later.
The R.A.A.F. authorities
knew what the defences at
Williamtown were really worth.
Every afternoon the ground-staff
was mustered and taken out
along the flat, empty runways
to roll the empty 44gal. drums
which had contained bitumen on
to the strips in case the enemy
landed troops during the night
The station had been finished so
quickly that there had been no
time to remove the empty drums
and some astute officer was quick
to realise the defensive value of
the containers. The drums would
catch landing-planes along the
wing-roots and tip them over,
making a night-landing a most
hazardous undertaking. Each
morning the ground-staff were
mustered before dawn to go out
again and roll the drums clear
so that the first patrol could take
off.
One such morning the clearing-
off gangs, anxious to be back in
time for breakfast, missed one
drum and left it standing in the
centre of a cross-strip. Writer,
as a crew-member of the Wirra-
way which did the dawn-patrol,
realised the effectiveness of the
makeshift defence-measure when,
without warning, the plane
(landing on another strip to the
one from which it took off)
struck the bitumen-camouflaged
drum and promptly somer-
saulted.
Consciousness returned with
a bewildering expanse of blue
sky, morning mist and black
bitumen, and the smell of petrol.
Wirraways had a reputation
for the alacrity with which they
were converted into a ball of
flame in such circumstances. The
pilot, hunched a little forward
by his parachute-harness and
with the pack bobbing ludi-
crously at his seat, was making
good progress across the ’drome,
elbows tucked into his side and
head stretched forward on strain-
ing neck. But, on this occasion,
nothing happened.
The serviceable Wirraways
were dispersed carefully each
night in case the Japanese Fleet,
reported to be on the prowl of
the eastern seaboard, sent a
squadron of fighter-bombers in to
attack the station with the object
of neutralising it before
systematic bombing of the New-
castle steelworks and other
strategic targets.
But, instead of the expected
Japanese attack, it was an
American Fleet plane which, in
mid - January, swept in
unannounced from the Pacific
and was almost shot down by the
crew manning one of the two
Vickers posts at each end of the
long strips.
The plane, a Douglas A2O
dive-bomber with a thinned-
down fuselage and big tail-fin,
was obviously no Wirraway, and
the ground-crew scattered when
it flew inquisitively low over the
big, empty hangars and slid into
a landing circuit. It was not
until it was bumping across the
strips that everyone realised it
was an American plane. Thus,
with the duty-driver sounding his
panel-van horn in a sustained
blare of welcome, the Americans
came to Williamtown, unheralded
and rueful about the damage
done to the rear-wheel of the
A2O in the irregular landing.
Next day the two U.S. Navy
lieutenants flew back out to sea
again, leaving behind them the
comforting knowledge that there
were friends out there in the blue
distance. It must have been fully
three weeks later when a soft-
speaking Southerner appeared
and announced he was liaison-
officer for the 113th Pursuit
Squadron, which was to take
over Williamtown and, with it,
the defence-commitments of the
Newcastle area. His arrival,
coinciding with the vicious
bombing of Darwin, made most
of the R.A.A.F. men wonder
who would reach Williamtown
first, the Americans or the
Japanese.
Then, quietly and without
fuss, a convoy of brand-new
American trucks pulled into the
station late one night, and the
squadron ground-crew arrived,
eyeing the Australians with the
same frank interest as that shown
them.
The Americans had been at
sea almost three months, so we
learned, and they were the first
complete fighter - squadron (as
opposed to smaller complements
of pilots and planes) to come to
Australia. The Americans had
not been paid since leaving the
United States and had no sense
of values for Australian
currency. Each night they came
through the R.A.A.F, huts,
offering box-cameras, clothing
and personal effects in exchange
for a few shillings with which to
go into town.
With their first pay, the
Americans’ financial status
swung full-circle, and the big
boom hit Newcastle.
The arrival of the squadron’s
Kittyhawks was an unforgettable
event. The deafening thunder
of the high-powered motors
made the air tremble that hot
summer’s morning.
Thirteen Kittyhawks com-
pressed into a tight circle, riding
round and round above the
’drome, looking down. The
planes, like the big American
trucks below them, were brand-
new, painted the same drab
green. Each had a belly-tank.
The sight of so many sleek,
deadly fighters in the air above
us, allies, made our hearts race.
The first, trembling, reverse
swing of the pendulum.
Abruptly they began to land,
wheeling down with their small,
neat feet extended gingerly,
fumbling for the strange bitumen
strip.
Those of us who had been
trained in the rigid safety-first
principles of the R.A.A.F. were
appalled at the nonchalant way
the Americans came in almost on
top of one another, one
trundling off the edge of the
strip, another rolling along the
middle, and a third just touching-
down. Mercifully it was the
thirteenth and last Kittyhawk
which nosed-over while landing
and lay, crushed and broken,
on its back in the middle of the
strip.
The wheels were still spinning
when we got there and pulled
the pilot out. A fresh-faced
college kid who laughed uproari-
ously at our silent faces.
We of the R.A.A.F., hungering
for aircraft such as this, looked
at the wreck critically, hopefully.
Perhaps the Americans would
give it to us? Perhaps we could
repair it and make it fly again?
Other aircraft arrived at
intervals. By the end of the
week a dozen crashed Kitty-
hawks were abandoned in what
came to be called the “grave-
yard” behind No. 1 hangar. The
American pilots, blinded by the
big engines, and knowing there
was only a tiny undercarriage
beneath them, crashed the
precious planes with cheerful
carelessness, escaping from the
wrecks with nothing more
serious than scratches and
bruises.
The American pilots became
increasingly critical of “those
goddam Harvard trainers” clut-
tering up the Williamtown
’drome. A pilot and a wireless-
operator died needlessly while
trying to make a Wirraway do
more than it was designed to do.
Gradually, our presence began to
embarrass the Americans, and
we became increasingly self-
conscious about the “struggle-
buggies” in which we flew. Even
the aircraft themselves seemed
to sense that the sky about New-
castle was no longer their own.
While we were waiting for
postings the big, slab-sided
Liberators began to fly in, tired
and low, from the vast Pacific.
The big four-engined planes
would rest for a little time on
the edge of the strip, and then
fly north. They were the first of
the scores of Liberators which
flew direct from the aircraft-
factories in the United States,
across the Pacific with their raw
crews, to the operational
squadrons in the north of
Australia.
To the R.A.A.F. pilots, with
their humble Wirraways, the
spectacle of American power
made the pre-1942 era seem like
a bad dream. And pilots —such
as Wing-Commander R. C.
Cresswell who knew the
Williamtown of those days, when
we kept up an outrageous bluff
with bustling little Wirraways
and 44gal. drums, must lately
have seen something peculiarly
heartening and significant in the
arrival of the first Australian-
built Avon Sabre jet.
The Australian-built Sabre,
with its Rolls-Royce Avon
engine, is considered by British,
American and Australian Air
Force experts to be on a par
with any operational fighter in
the world. So there is a sort of
poetic justice in the fact of Wing-
Commander “Dickie” Cresswell,
who flew Wirraways at William-
town, now holding the position
of commanding-officer of No. 2
(Fighter) Operational Training
Unit in the new era of supersonic
air-combat.
Cresswell and other pilots
entrusted with the care of the
£500,000 Sabre-fighters must
think wryly of the days when
the Americans of 113th Pursuit
Squadron, perturbed at the poor
ground-defences of the William-
town station, lugged .50 machine-'
guns from the wings of crashed
Kittyhawks and welded them on
to twin tripods for use as defence
weapons.
While the first of these novel
Weapons was being tested the
recoil action slammed back into
the American officer’s face,
blackened both eyes, knocked out
two front teeth and sent heavy-
calibre ,50 machine-gun bullets
whining through a row of
R.A.A.F. sleeping-huts near the
parade-ground. Airmen scat-
tered left and right for the slit-
trenches, and, slashed in two, an
electric-light pole tottered to a
crash. When the belt-feed action
of the .50’s halted, the station
was in an uproar.
And now the Americans are
coming back to Williamtown, in
circumstances which echo the
summer'months of 1941-42. At
time of writing there were 10
American pilots at Williamtown,
stationed there in exchange for
R.A.A.F. men who have gone
to the United States to fly jet-
fighters.
It seems likely there will be
more —and more jets. But, since
aircraft have character for those
who fly them, the Wirraway will
not be forgotten.
GREY WREN
Bubble-bouncing on my lawn
Come the grey wrens, jauntily
Bearing in their sabre tails
All their wrennish dignity.
I’ve seen a wren without a tail;
The small, grey, bobbing, bumbling thing
Hopped on the grass. The children laughed
At each fore-shortened, graceless spring.
And yet it had bright eyes, pert head,
Feathers for warmth and wings for flight;
In all things, for its small wren’s life,
Perfect except in others’ sight.
For all of us perfection lies
In some extraneous quality—
Wrens have their tails, life ha® its loves.
And man has his humanity.
TASMANIA.
J. C. H.


tSW CHRISTMAS
//
m
-
>
<-m
\
••7
* „•
<**' M
& 4 i®
WB?
I
>. y
to his face with
Gillette
What a handsome present!
A Gillette Superspeed Razor Set to
start him off with the world's
swiftest, smoothest shave every
morning. These beautiful Sets, with
quick-action Gillette Razors and
quick-feed Dispensers are
wonderful value. It's the chance
of a lifetime to buy him a
Christmas present that will give him
Superspeed shaving for years.
'*
Gillette Set No. 54.
The famous 'Rocket Set'.
A quick-action Gillette
Razor with a 6-blade,
quick-feed Dispenser.9/6
S A f
-
<3S£g«
ESfUIII!
sri#
mm
IP^
Quick-feed
Dispensers
containing 10 or 20 Blue
Gillette Blades ready for
giving in holly decked
cellophane. 3/9, 7/6.
Gillette Set No. 66.
Velvet lined, lizard-grained
case holds quick-action Gillette
Aristocrat Razor and q quick-feed
10-blade Dispenser. 40/-.
Start HIS Happy New Year with
657
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ISRAEL AND THE ARABS
Much has happened since Ben
Hecht said he had a song
in his heart every time a British
soldier was killed in Palestine —
Britain has lately gone from
Egypt and has lifted its embargo
on supply of arms to that
country ; the U.S. has announced
that large shipments of arms for
Egypt, Israel and other countries
are under consideration —and
Israel’s present concern with the
possibility of being left out on
a limb in the middle of a hostile
Arab world recently moved
London “Daily Mail” to wonder
if Mr. Hecht’s heart “would sing
an oratorio” to have a few British
soldiers back again.
The following quoted
comments illustrate the differ-
ences of rival attitudes and the
difficulty of reconciling them.
The first “a Jordanian view”
isltoLs
artiT om “Vioknce on thl
Sr rsfsL
Arab Legion, in the U.S.
quarterly Foreisn Affa,rs -
Arab Refugees
Glubb writes that “when the
United Nations prepared its plan
the Partition of Palestine m
, 1947 '. ' dr , eW the dcmi, r«tKm-
! ne jf* 1 f a - ma , ni l e, j tbat *l?®
Arabs ? be • !“ cl " ded l n , th( r
P}°P° s ® d . dewisb looked
Ae bem 8 v^ ry nealdy as
numerous as the Jews. This
indeed was the principal problem
which seemed likely to face the
Jewish State when it came into
existence on May 15, 1948. How
were the Jews to run a ‘Jewish
State’ in which nearly half the
inhabitants would be Arabs?
“When the British Mandate
came to an end on May 15,
guerrilla fighting between Jews
and Arabs had already been
going on for some months, as the
British forces gradually dwindled.
On that date the fighting became
general.
“Both before and after the
end of the Mandate, the Israelis
seized every possible opportunity
to get rid of the Arabs still living
in the area allotted to the Jewish
State. In some cases, massacre
was resorted to, as in the Arab
village of Deir Yassin, where the
women of the village were
massacred and their bodies
thrown down the wells—one
morning when most of the men
of the village were away at work.
One such incident went a long
way, and the inhabitants of
neighboring villages panicked
and fled.
“In the course of the fighting,
the Jews captured a number of
Arab towns and villages, some
of which were in the area allotted
to the Arabs under the United
Nations partition plan. In
many such instances, the civil
inhabitants were driven out
immediately by Israeli troops or
were given half an hour to leave.
“It was in this manner that
the Arab refugee problem came
into existence. More than half
the total number of refugees
sought asylum in Jordan, which,
according to United Nations
statistics, now contains 450,000
refugees. The total number of
inhabitants of Jordan is about
1,400,000. Thus the refugees
constitute about one-third of the
inhabitants of the country,
U.N.O. Flouted
“The general fighting in
Palestine came to an end in July,
1948. When all parties accepted
the United Nations armistice, the
Egyptian Army was -still in
occupation of the Negeb (the
Beersheba area) and of the Wadi
Araba, the depression which runs
from the Dead Sea down to the
Red Sea. This area had been
allotted to Israel in the United
Nations partition plan, but the
Israelis had failed to occupy it.
On the other hand, west of
Jerusalem and in northern
Galilee they had occupied areas
allotted by the United Nations
to the Arabs.
“In October, 1948, the Israeli
Army broke the United Nations
armistice and attacked the
Egyptians. It is true that the
Israelis claimed that it was the
Egyptians who broke it. For 15
days before the battle began,
however, the Israelis had refused
to allow United Nations
observers to visit the area in
which their troops were concen-
trating. The Egyptians were
taken completely by surprise,
and suffered a serious reverse.
The Israelis thereupon occupied
the Beersheba area.
“Few outsiders realise now
that the whole of the southern
part of Israel as it stands today
was won, not in the general fight-
ing from May to July, 1948, but
by a deliberate violation of the
United Nations armistice in
October, 1948. The Israeli Army
had been able to increase its
strength in the interval by con-
signments of arms received from
behind the Iron Curtain.
“Israel was to be guilty of one
more breach of the United
Nations armistice. Jordan had
been in military occupation of
the Wadi Araba since the end of
the British Mandate in May,
1948, and in August, 1948, as
already mentioned, the United
Nations had arranged an
armistice. In the autumn, Jordan
and Israel concluded a separate
agreement of their own covering
the Jerusalem area, and repre-
sentatives of the two countries
met in Rhodes on April 3, 1949,
to conclude a new armistice.
While these direct Israel-Jordan
negotiations were going on in
Rhodes, suspicious Israeli troop-
movements were observed south-
east of Beersheba.
“The Jordan Government
cabled its delegation in Rhodes
instructing it to ask for an
Israeli explanation. The Israeli
delegation vehemently denied
any military movements. Three
days later, however, while
negotiations were still proceed-
ing in Rhodes, the Israeli Army
launched its offensive against the
Jordan forces in the Wadi Araba,
in defiance of the previous
armistice agreements to which
the Israel Government had sub-
scribed.”
Planned Aggression
Adding that it is necessary to
recall these past incidents and
to understand the history of the
problem in order to appreciate
the obstacles to trust and recon-
ciliation today, Glubb con-
cludes :
“One often reads statements
to the effect that both Jordan
and Israel are equally guilty of
aggression. But it is essential to
remember that the incidents on
the two sides are different in
nature. The incidents carried
out by Jordanians are the work
of destitute refugees, whom the
Jordan Government is doing its
very utmost to control. The
incidents carried out by Israelis,
however, are not the work of
individuals, but are acts of
aggression carried out by the
armed forces of the Israeli
Government.
“The Army of Jordan is better
known to the world at large as
the Arab Legion. In the five
years which have elapsed since
the Rhodes armistice was signed
in April, 1949, not one single
incursion into Israel - held
territory has been either planned
or executed or even connived at
by the Arab Legion, or by any
other armed force controlled by
the Jordan Government. This is
a fact.”
Israel’s View
All the foregoing is, as
stated, the “Jordanian view.”
Here follow, in excerpts from an
interview with “U.S. News and
World Report,” the comments
of Moshe Sharett, Israel’s Prime
Minister.
Asked if he believed Arab
infiltration across the border into
Israel had been organised or
encouraged by the Arab Govern-
ments, Sharett replied:
“It is certainly condoned by
them. In cases where the Arab
Legion opens fire, the respon-
sibility of the Jordan Govern-
ment is more pronounced and
direct. In cases where there is
infiltration by anonymous
people, the responsibility is still
there because under the terms of
the armistice agreement each
Government is responsible for
acts of violence and for illegal
crossings of the line on the part
of its nationals. So, even in
those cases, the responsibility of
the Jordan Government, or of
any other Arab Government
concerned, is unmistakable.”
Arab Provocation
Questioned on criticism of
Israel’s method of dealing with
infiltration by retaliating against
Arab villages in areas where
infiltration is heavy, Sharett
added:
“I don’t think that criticism
has included the charge that
Israel has started the practice
of infiltration, or that it has ever
without any provocation sent
people across the border to rob
and kill, or that it has in any
other form taken the initiative
of suddenly kindling the fires of
aggression in an atmosphere of
complete calm and serenity.
“These retaliation attacks by
Israel are a natural reaction to
aggressive violence of people
brutally attacked so that the
other side should realise that
Israel is not there sitting with its
arms folded to be assaulted by
anyone with impunity. It stands
to reason that it is only that kind
of occasional reaction that makes
the Government of the other side
alive to its responsibilities and
leads them to make efforts to
take the situation in the border
zone firmly in hand.”
Risky Arming
Asked about his objections to
giving arms to the Arabs—“lf we
[America] don’t provide arms to
the Arab States, how do we build
up Middle East defence against
Russia?” —Sharett replied:
“There is, first of all, the
question of whether the Arab
States can at all be relied upon
to play an effective part in any
war on the side of file Western
Powers or, for that matter, on
the side of anyone,
“The Arab States have a time-
honored tradition of sitting on
the fence. They did very little to
fight Turkey in the first World
War, although they achieved
their independence as a result of
it. It was just a windfall to
them. They did nothing to help
the Allies in the second World
War. They firmly sat on the
fence and jumped off only at the
very last moment when Germany
lay prostrate and fatally bleed-
ing. They formally declared war
just to be able to share in the
spoils or to figure as founding-
members of the United Nations.
But during the war, in so far as
they were active, they were active
by rebellion in the rear. In so


1 SENT OUR ATOMIC SECRETS
TO MOSCOW
In 1943-1944 Major G. R. Jordan,
acting as chief expediter of the lend-
lease agreement with Russia, found
that vital materials and top-secret
equipment (costing astronomical
sums of money) were being des-
patched to the Communists. This
was being done in spite of security
regulations, and at a time when
many of the items were desperately
scarce in America itself.
Major Jordan also reveals the
shocking treachery of many so-
called “war leaders,” and their will-
ing service to the Communists, in
this factual, authenticated article,
and the attitude taken to him by
the influential “leftists” of the
nation’s Press.
The current issue of the INTEL-
LIGENCE SURVEY also provides
other factual reports and comments
essential for all Christian patriots.
Single issues of the INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY, 4/- post free.
Annual subscription, £2/2/- post
free.
Order from:
The Victorian League of Rights
( Uon-party , non-sectarian)
343 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
VITREODS^aa
COMPRESSED
Overt *
artC
INSULATION
Vto* 6
CW'<*
CMwirAaai
oJ*
MSB
JD
■' ,
wmm
■
♦
Continuous
Burning
ft*,
Constant
Hot Water for
Kitchen * Bathroom * Laundry
*rnhm!rhn*l *. 4(D "
The extra large roasting oven of the
Carmichael "400” is vitreous ena-
melled inside and out, thereby ensuring
faster cooking and longer life. Com-
pressed insulation takes up less space
allowing far more cooking area with
larger ovens, larger hotplate.
No matter when you decide to cook,
the Carmichael "400” is always ready
for use and supplies enough hot water
for all household needs. The sparkling
titanium enamel finish ensures easy
cleaning . . . adds beauty to any
kitchen.
Naturally it cooks perfectly . . . it’s a Carmichael
0
Write today for
free illustrated literature to:
W. T. Carmichael Ltd., Rawson Street,
Auburn: W. T. Carmichael, Brisbane,
or Buzacott (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
Ctuuniehael
‘s2d
io»*
f«L«° okl t n h ®L ten »perature« f«-
to h coo “° ment you
enamelled „ly
Carmichael “520” i.
Jas. Balfour Pty. t«td., Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth.
far as they took initiative, it
was to stab the Allies in the back.
They did that in Irak and in
Egypt.
“Their reasoning is fairly
simple. They say, ‘There are
two sides to the conflict —one
must be strong, and the other
weak. The strong party does not
need our help; the weak party
does not deserve our help. It is
only at the very end of the
conflict that we can ascertain
which party is stronger and
which weaker. Therefore,
let us bide our time.’ There is no
democratic idealism whatsoever
throughout these countries
Democracy is not something that
they would feel so precious as
to be worth fighting for.
“So, from the point of view
of defending democracy, I think
the Western Powers should be
warned against squandering their
resources on the arming of Arab
States.
“As far as Israel is concerned,
there is a more crucial point, and
that is that arms given to Arab
States are arms directed against
Israel potentially today,
actually tomorrow or the day
after. So we watch with
profound dismay and mounting
anxiety the policy of the
American Government to arm
the Arab States —Irak today,
Egypt maybe tomorrow, and
Syria the day after tomorrow.
“This creates an armed pre-
ponderance in the Middle East
which is violently hostile to us.
It forces us to increase our arma-
ments by hook or by crook, to
devote even a larger share of our
meagre resources to self-defence,
feeling all the time that American
potentiality to provide arms will
exceed our capacity for buying
them in such markets as are open
to us. We, therefore, foresee a
state of very grave peril for our
security if this goes on.
“We are at a loss to under-
stand how the U.S. can reconcile
that policy with her declared
policy and concern to see Israel
prosperous and secure.”
American Comment
As though in reply to the
Israel Prime Minister, “New
York Times” correspondent
C. L. Sulzberger points out that
United States policy “encourages
a northern Islamic pie-crust in
the Middle East running from
Turkey across Irak, Iran and
Pakistan. This, it is hoped, will
not only create a defensive coali-
tion against Soviet penetration
but will also divert the dynamism
of Arab nations away from
Palestine.
“All of this involves an
American commitment to rearm
the Islamic States which terrifies
Israel, a tiny and audacious
minority in the area. Israel is
still formally at war with its
neighbors. Washington grants
arms to the nations on its
borders. Israel fears it may
eventually be subject to the
frenzy of a jihad, or religious
war.
“What Israel wants is a com-
mitment by the United States to
negotiate a security pact with
Tel Aviv as well as with the
Arab nations and a promise not
to help Islam’s rearmament pro-
gramme until concomitant
Israeli needs are simultaneously
recognised.
“Tel Aviv does not realise that
American interests have dictated
a new approach in the Middle
East.”
British Opinion
Also standing on the sidelines
as a kind of referee-commentator,
London “Economist” sums up:
“The more extreme shades of
Israeli opinion hold that the
frontier must be pushed out.
They believe that Israel’s natural
capital is Jerusalem and its
natural frontier the Jordan.
They point out that the Jews
survived by resorting to violence
in the 1930’5, that they had to
use force to get the British to
leave, and that the war of 1948
put Israel on the map for good.
“Moreover, the extremists
argue that the Arabs are openly
preparing for war; and, finally,
Israeli extremists assert that
the only way to get per-
manent peace with the Arabs
is to eliminate a frontier which
inevitably invites trouble, and to
convince the Arab world that
Israel is there to stay.
“The Arabs see the matter
very differently. Some of them
still do not concede the per-
manency of Israel. They argue—
and with considerable logic—
that Israel is an economic
absurdity whose survival hinges
on the unpredictable element of
foreign charity, and which cannot
indefinitely survive a boycott by
the rest of the Middle East.”
[Prime Minister Sharett main-
tained in the “U.S. News and
World Report” interview that
Israel could not only survive
such a boycott, but would benefit
from the effort needed to survive
it.]
“Added to these impassioned
appraisals of what the Arabs
believe to be the facts,” the
“Economist” continues, “there is
the permanent indignation over
the fate of the Arab refugees.
Their appalling misery strikes
the Arabs as a live monument
to the brutality of Zionism. That
the Jewish immigrants have often
made a garden of what centuries
of Arab neglect had turned into
a desert does not allay Arab
anger about expropriation,
“What the Arabs are striving
for are adjustments of the present
frontier, resettlement and massive
compensation for Arab refugees,
a definite declaration on Israel’s
part that it has no further
territorial claims, and a willing-
ness on the side of the Jews to
leave their own defence to the
United Nations. Ultimately,
some Arabs envisage Israel as a
somewhat larger Malta, with a
definite role in the marketing
and export of Middle Eastern
goods. Others feel that in the
long-range future the present
inhabitants of Israel, amongst
whom orthodox Judaism is a
waning force, might be re-
absorbed into the Semitic world.
“Both the Israeli and the Arab
views are dangerous because they
are, in part, unrealistic. The
Israelis are mistaken in believing
that they could obtain a settle-
ment from military victory.
They are also in error when they
assume that Israel can become
an economic reality outside the
Arab world. And they are par-
ticularly unreasonable if they
fail to recognise the changes in
international relations which
have brought the Western Powers
closer to the Arabs.
“At the same time, the Arab
arguments are founded on a
profound misconception of the
relationship between Israel and
the Jewish communities abroad
—particularly in America. To
millions of Jews Israel represents
not only a proud dream, but also
a possible refuge in the uncertain
future. It is perfectly true that
the State Department in Wash-
ington may be increasingly pro-
Arab, but as long as the two-
million Jews in New York remain
a great financial and political
force, Israel does not stand alone,
“American public opinion has
not lost its sympathy with Israel,
it has only temporarily lost
interest, and in the event of a
Jewish-Arab war it would veer
sharply back. Furthermore, the
Arabs tend to misunderstand the
nature of the Zionist experiment,
the fact that it has an ardent
religion of its own which has
nothing to do with theology. The
men working in the desert settle-
ments and in the new factories
of Israel cannot be driven into
the sea. The Arabs will simply
have to swallow the realisation
that, one way or another, Israel
will still be featured in
tomorrow’s atlas.”
Various Voices
British Conservative, Lord
Mancroft: “There is a danger
that the electorate may begin to
think of the Tories merely as
political charwomen —as good
clearers-up of Socialist messes.
We shall have to fight the next
[British] election on something
more far-reaching than our own
excellent record.”
Sir Anthony Eden : “What are
the alternatives that face Europe?
Either the cold war will continue
—if so, this will place continuing
heavy burdens, financial and
otherwise, upon all the nations.
Or the cold war will become a
hot war —should that calamity
ever overtake mankind, no
financial calculations in any
capital on the earth’s surface are
going to matter very much.
There is a third alternative. By
negotiation from strength we
may be able to bring about a
relaxation of the present tension.
It is for this that we are
working.”
British Chancellor Butler:
“Socialists talk of fair shares.
A simple and empty slogan.
Who believes that shares should
be unfair? The task to which
we must set our hands is not that
of a calculating-machine, measur-
ing how to cut the national
wealth into exactly even portions.
It is a different kind of machine
we need; the kind that will in
fact increase the national wealth
so that we all have a bigger
share.”
Lord Chandos: “If a business
executive were to allocate his
time strictly in accordance with
the importance of each section of
his business, he would devote the
whole of his time from Monday
until Wednesday after luncheon
in studying taxation and its
implications on the day-to-day
management of his business. Out
of every pound made by the
ordinary joint-stock company in
industry now, approximately
10s. sd. goes in direct taxation
to the Government [in Great
Britain].”
Henry Cabot Lodge. U.S.
Ambassador to United Nations:
“Success in this effort [towards
the peaceful use of atomic
energy] will make this the
greatest year, the most construc-
tive year, in the United Nations
history.”
Clement Davies (leader of
Britain’s Liberal party): “I
believe that the day of national
armies, national navies and
national air-forces is over. A
threat to any one people is a
threat to us all, and therefore we
all ought to join in a common
defence. I believe the day has
come when the forces of all
nations should be welded into
international forces for the
defence of all our freedoms.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Land Resumption
The long-awaited decision of the Privy
Council in the Pye case is serious news
to many N. S. Wales landowners who
had been hoping that the P.C. decision
would protect them against the State
Government’s Socialist land - grabbing
policy.
Now that hope has gone ; the Govern-
ment has undisputed power and will
undoubtedly use it. Although everyone
knows that 1942 values under 1954 con-
ditions are plain robbery, that won’t stop
the Government resuming land on those
terms.
The only recourse left to landowners
is the ballot-box, but even that will not
repair the thousands of pounds’ worth
of deterioration from which all
threatened properties have suffered over
the last 10 years. Nor will it compensate
the country for the drop in production
which the Government’s actions have
caused.
Landowners who have been refused
any allowance for maintenance or
improvements during the years they have
been waiting for possible resumption can
hardly be blamed for not spending money
on their properties when, at any day,
their life-work may be taken from them.
Few properties under threat of Govern-
ment resumption have received more
than the barest attention since the day
they were gazetted for seizure.
The result has been a slow but steady
reversion to weeds, vermin, disrepair and
reduced productivity. The actual loss of
production over the recent years has been
considerable, and it will be a long time
before it is recovered, Pyott
Strom (N.S.W.).
Kangaroo-hide
With ammo costing a bob a round
and Too-hides bringing only a bob or
two per pound, it’s no wonder profes-
sional shooters are giving the game away
and ’roos are assuming plague-propor-
tions.
Yet kangaroo-hide is one of the
toughest of all leathers, and when tanned
with wattle-bark is ideal for boot- or
shoe-uppers. I had a pair of walking-
boots made from it; light and com-
fortable, they stood resoling seven times.
Footwear has gone up in price be-
cause of the cost of calf, kid and other
leathers, while kangaroo-skins fetch only
a Tew bob each. It doesn’t make sense.
— H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
The “A.B.C. Weekly”
How times have changed! A few
years ago the announcement that accumu-
lated losses on the “A.B.C, Weekly”
totalled a quarter-of-a-mlllion pounds
(and it is still losing) would have brought
a demand from the metropolitan daily
press that the commission suspend publi-
cation of the journal forthwith. When
the story was broken in the Senate
recently by a Government member during
discussion of the 1954-55 broadcasting
estimates, it didn’t rate
even a mention in any
of the dailies that I saw.
Are the newspapers now
so obsessed with their
crime and sex cam-
paigns that they have
ceased to be (to use their
own beloved phrase)
“public watchdogs,” or
are they so inured to
financial losses on Gov-
ernment and semi-
Government ventures
that they are no longer
news? Another possi-
bility is that they feel
much more benevolently
towards the commission
since it has been demon-
strated that the inde-
pendent news-service no
longer threatens their circulations ; and
they have had time to develop their own
rival services through commercial net-
works.
The Senator (whose name I failed to
catch) pointed out that the “Weekly” is
now published in only two of the six
States (N.S.W. and Queensland) and said
he whether it was legal for the
commission to spread the journal’s
losses over listeners in other Slates who
had no opportunity of buying it even if
they wanted to. He thought the “Weekly”
should be abolished forthwith and the
task of publicising broadcast-pro-
grammes left to private enterprise, which
appeared to be handling it satisfactorily
and profitably in a number of the smaller
States.
Senator Cooper, on behalf of the Gov-
ernment, defended publication of the
“A.B.C. Weekly,” saying the annual loss
was now much less than it would cost the
commission to get the same amount of
programme - publicity through the
advertising columns of the daily press.
What the Senator failed to grasp,
apparently, is that a journal which
circulates in only two out of six States,
and with a comparatively small circu-
lation at that, is of little value to a
Commonwealth - wide organisation such
as the A.B.C. He could have added,
too, that most (if not all) of the Aus-
tralian daily papers now print accurate
and up-to-date programme summaries
every day, and that broadcasting-stations
themselves boost their own programmes
to the point of monotony.
The “A.B.C. Weekly” was bom in
travail in 1939. For some years previ-
ously the commission had toyed with the
idea of producing a journal, and when,
shortly before the outbreak of World
War 11, the daily newspapers told the
commission that in future they would
print programme details only at
advertising rates, it was decided to
launch the journal immediately. An
editor was engaged at the then-substantial
salary of £l5OO a year and plans were
made to launch the publication in a big
way. But the commission had reckoned
without the Government of the day,
which, immediately it heard of the
proposed venture, sent its P.M.G. (then
E. J. Hardison) to tell A.B.C. chair-
man W. J. Cleary that Cabinet approval
of the plan had not been given and was
unlikely to be given. Cleary, who knew
his Broadcasting Act backwards, told
Harrison that permission to launch the
journal had not been sought because it
was not necessary, and that, failing an
immediate amendment of the Act, the
commission would go ahead with its plan.
Cabinet, through Harrison, again
registered strong disapproval of the
scheme, fearing that it would worsen the
already strained relations between the
newspapers and the commission over
news, but stopped short of an amendment
of the Act.
The commission had by this time
completed its plans, and on December 2,
1939, the first issue of the “Weekly,”
totalling 300,000 copies, appeared
—with a burst of publicity that
would have done credit to the launching
of a metropolitan daily. The commission,
pleased with itself over having called the
Government’s bluff, sat back confident
that a second printing would be necessary,
but received a rude shock when reports
showed that less than a third of the first
issue had been sold. There was a
diminishing demand for subsequent
issues, and at the end of six months the
“Weekly” was “in the red” to the tune
of more than £60,000.
This was the signal for renewed press-
criticism of the venture; and after a
year or two of mounting losses the
Government decided to force the
commission to abandon the journal. It is
true to say that only the last-minute
personal intervention of the then leader
of the Opposition, John Curtin, saved it.
The Labor party had always supported
the publication of an A.B.C. journal and
felt that it would be a moral victory for
the newspapers if it were forced to
suspend publication.
In fairness to the commission it has
tried various expedients during the past
ten years to put the “Weekly” on a
paying basis. Editors have been changed ;
the size of the journal has been varied,
and the price increased to keep up with
the higher cost of production; and,
although the annual loss is now a good
deal less than it used to be, this is
probably due more to the suspension of
publication in the smaller States than to
anything else. At one stage, about six
years ago, the commission toyed with
the idea of installing its own printing-
“ Shh! Don't Wake him, dear. Poor old Daddy didn't get a wink
of sleep all day at the office!."
plant to reduce production costs and
speed up publication, but wisely
rejected it. Its last real hope of getting
the journal out of the “red”, was to give
considerable space each week to pro-
gramme details of commercial stations,
but this, too, failed to win the greatly
increased circulation hoped for.
It should have become apparent to the
commission long ago that in Australia,
unlike Britain, programme details have
only slight selling-value. The 8.8.C.’s
programme journal, “Radio Times,” had
an average circulation of 8,200,000 copies
a week during the first half of 1954.
It is interesting to recall that when
plans for the publication of a journal were
being discussed in 1939 the vice-chairman
of the commission, Mr. Herbert Brookes,
of Melbourne, urged that every licence-
holder in Australia should automatically
become a free subscriber, thus ensuring
a substantial circulation from the outset
and enabling the commission to command
high advertising rates. Had this idea
been adopted the “Weekly” would now
be enjoying a circulation of more than
two million copies an issue. One of the
difficulties that was foreseen (if I remem-
ber rightly) was the unlikelihood of
being able to find a printer capable of
handling the huge output of a few years
later. The commission was confident at
the time of achieving a paid circulation
consistent with the rapidly increasing
number of licence-holders. Unfortunately
from the first issue this hope seemed
doomed to disappointment; and the
commission appeared incapable of making
up its mind either to abandon the project
or execute some bold stroke to “put it
on the map,” The “Weekly” may
eventually “break even” on production-
costs, but there seems little likelihood
that it will ever earn sufficient profits to
wipe out the accumulated deficit of a
quarter of a million pounds. In the
meantime, even its strongest supporters
will admit that the publicity it is giving
national broadcasting is being dearly
bought.—M. F. D. (N.S.W.).
Crimean Relics
No need to go overseas for relics of
the Crimean War (B. 10/11 /’54). Aus-
tralia has many—four of them in
Adelaide. Two are on the parade-
ground behind Government House—a
pair of heavy, wrought-iron 4in. fortress-
guns from Sebastopol.
Two more interesting and valuable
relics are housed in a Government store-
room. They are a couple of bronze
field-pieces, 6ft. long, with the Imperial
Russian arms in a beautifully enamelled
design on the barrels near the breech.
Nobody seems to know how they came
to S.A. or who owns them; equally
strange that they aren’t put on show
somewhere.
Until the last war all Victoria Crosses
were made from the bronze of a Russian
gun captured in the Crimea. The metal
was weighed out as carefully as if it were
gold, for when that gun was used up it
was thought there would be no more. The
day came when the last of it had gone,
and then a similar alloy was produced as
a substitute.
But all the time a couple of guns, each
containing enough metal to make a few
thousand medals, have been lying in this
Adelaide store-room. Twice I’ve tried to
interest our Army heads, with a sugges-
tion that the news be sent to London, but
nothing has been done.
This can serve as a third attempt. —
Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Japan
If “Contact” (B. 3/11/’54) were to
read Time of Fallen Blossoms (Clifton)
he would find a very good description
of post-war Japan during the Aussie
occupation, given by one soldier who
went beyond the “beer-halls and the
brothels.” Of course it is only one man’s
opinion, but his viewpoint is descriptive
of that “other side” of a controversial
picture.—Quo Vadis (Q.).
Capital and Labor
If they are to survive, both capital and
labor must become more efficient.
Efficiency may be defined as something
that produces higher profits with less
wasted effort for both sides.
The first and most obvious waste of
effort lies in the state of undeclared civil
war existing between many employees
and their managements. Many of the
more progressive and successful U.S.
firms have found it pays to bring all the
aids of modern psychology to the
sweetening of this relationship. They
employ trained social-workers whose job
it is to help staff with their individual
problems, and in the strictest confidence.
The help extends to problems in the
employee’s private life, for these can do
much to reduce Ms efficiency at work. Of
course such an approach is feasible only
for large firms, but they are finding that
their philanthropy pays cash dividends.
Another function of the social-worker
is to weed the round pegs from the square
holes, both before and after engagement.
They are able to do this more efficiently
than the ablest of departmental
managers. In a country with such an
acute labor-shortage as Australia’s, that
might be difficult, but surely something
could be done to save the enormous sums
which are wasted annually in training


e w W '
Coy. «Y- Ud - foU" er ~ ,
Woolworfhs Ltd
Larke Hoskins & Coy. Ltd.
B«eW»9»*«"‘ Ud '
WMH & ro ' ia " fcCoY
DrU9 " y %“ r '“ , ' e
p.H Son & Bad 9 “l\r*r« H Ud ’
oe Hov»U« n ° _
%
ks
For freedom from unnecessary errors, these
big business organisations chose Contex for use
in their Accounting departments. What Contex
has done for all of these companies it can do
for you. Contex adds in whole numbers, £.s.d.,
decimals, weights and measures. Over 15,000
Contex machines are in operation in businesses
throughout Australia.
£23io
Handsome carrying
case, 55/- extra.
CHARTRES LTD.
169 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE M 0425
POST THIS TO-DAY
TO: CHARTRES LTD., 169 Liverpool St., Sydney.
Please send me more details of the Centex.
NAME
ADDRESS C024.1t
wssss&&.
v
The Halt Mark of Quality
m
V I
6 6
JA
R A
FALLS LTD
TSFO 8 0 ,
TOR I A
A MESSAGE
WORTH REMEMBERING
into every inch of Yarra
Falls Worsted goes
something more than
Australia’s purest virgin,
wool supreme crafts-
manship and an insistence
on quality which gives
these fine suitings a
character all their own.
men to do jobs for which they are utterly
unsuited.
There are ways in which smaller firms,
where the employment of a welfare-
officer isn’t feasible, can encourage their
staff to take more interest in their jobs
and less in the clock. Men value a sense
of their own importance, and adding to
a, man’s sense of responsibility will
usually lead him to do better work. One
Sydney firm attributes much of a large
increase in its turnover to installation of
an employees’ suggestion-box. The em-
ployees themselves have been paid many
thousands of pounds for their valuable
suggestions.
This kind of thing also begets indirect
bonuses for a firm. The chance of a cash
reward can stimulate interest, even in
that type of employee who was formerly
a boss’s nightmare. Indeed, sheer lazi-
ness sometimes replaces necessity in
mothering invention, as in the case of an
employee who fixed a piece of string to
a machine-loom to do the monotonous
job for which he himself had been hired.
There is a kind of scientific thrift
which could be applied to many city
businesses, but seldom is. In this respect
our younger men on the land are often
far ahead of men in the city. They use
science’s every discovery to squeeze the
utmost yield from their holdings.
Macy’s, the New York mammoth de-
partment-store, paid a huge sum to
efficiency-experts for the streamlining of
its internal routine. The outlay has been
amply repaid. In Sydney I know that
several big stores have an internal
routine so cumbersome that similar
tactics could profitably be employed.
Germany’s post-war recovery is partly
due to the scientific costing applied, of
necessity, to every facet of business.
One leading U.S. taxation-expert went
so far as to calculate the cost to a firm
of running an office filing-system. In his
analysis he even included the exact frac-
tion of rent for the exact fraction of
floor-space the filing-cabinet covered!
On the other hand, C. S. Myers, induS
trial psychologist of Cambridge Uni-
versity, quotes the case of an English
firm where, though wages were calcu-
lated in tenths of a penny, 2s. 6d. wasj
wasted on administration whenever a
packet of pins was needed from the store
room. While the attitude of the Ameri-
can expert may be exaggerated, the
reverse attitude is all too common in
Australia.
I know a Victorian firm where nine
copies of a docket are made in order to
sell a chair. The staff complain of being
so busy with paperwork that they are
obliged, at times, to ignore customers.
Yet these are keen salesmen, hired to
make use of their personalities in
selling. Any salesman knows the
importance of approaching every cus-
“I must be lolly fella —Yanks blow 'em tWo miles."
tomer who shows the slightest sign of
interest. Time and again hundreds of
pounds’-worth of business must be lost
to the firm through its archaic book-
keeping.
We have had a 20-year wave of easy
prosperity, supported mainly by wool,
but unless capital and labor get together,
and efficiently, too, the wave could turn
out to be a dumper. —G. P. (N.S.W.).
Morse and Teleprinters
Radio-telephony in aircraft, co / n '
mercial and service (B. 13/10/ 54), has
nothing to do with shifting large
amounts of telegraph-business. Those
Canberra bombers carried no Morse-
keys, relying on high-frequency phone
with a range of 300 miles —so what?
They were flying at 40,000 ft. and their
sets were line-of-sight jobs which
wouldn’t be much use at ground-level
for high-pressure traffic.
In a busy and shrinking world any
telegraph concern must use teleprinters
to stay in business. I only object to their
use on circuits where they haven’t a hope
of paying their way —and in Australia
it’s public money which subsidises these
white-elephants.
Training telegraph-operators costs
money, granted, but trainees take in
Morse, teleprinters and procedure in the
one course, as well as technical matters.
So Morse is not the only item on the bill;
and, as Morse-lines will be essential in
Australia for another 20 years at least,
the expense will have to be met.
The original problem I raised was:
Is the P.M.G.’s Department going to
persist with its illogical concentration on
machine-systems which haven’t a hope of
paying, or will it train its young opera-
tors to be efficient in Morse and thus
give the public a cheap and speedy
service? —V. J. H. (W.A.).
Commonwealth Literary Fund
About the Commonwealth Literary
Fund (8.'.20/10/’54):
It is too much to hope that all subsi-
dised writers should produce worth-
while works. Not only do the wells of
imagination have concrete bottoms but,
also, it is not always easy to write when
you know you are expected to come
out with something good. To a
really conscientious man this strain
may become almost as restrictive as
the strain of semi-poverty, and often
tends to lead to overwriting—in
poetry particularly,
The fact that some MSS. have
been rejected by the advisory com-
mittee as “not eligible for assistance,”
only to be subsequently accepted by
publishing-firms, is not in itself a
valid criticism. It may only mean
that there is often a ready market
for second-class material —that is
very true today, as anyone browsing
through a bookshop will soon realise.
Or it may mean that the selection
committee is not a perfect judge—
that is both true and unavoidable.
Finally, the C.L.F. lectures will
never be a great success until they
receive a lot more publicity than they
get at present, at least in Canberra.
For the recent lecture on Henry
Kingsley by Dr. Leone Kramer
there was extremely little adver-
tising. No mention was made in the
University College student magazine, nor
at classes. The local press contained a
few insignificant lines, and printed
announcements were stuck on notice-
boards that no one reads.
As a result the roll-up was about 40,
of which perhaps ten were from the true
“general public.” The rest were members
of the academic staff of the A.N.U. and
the University College and their wives, a
few types from the Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers and a couple of students
who thought they were at a sports-
council meeting.—D. G.E. (A.C.T.).


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
m
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE...
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATQR
of
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
ilmm
YOU CAN INSTAI. IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for S 3 years
DISTRIBUTORS '■
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St.. Adelaide.
K. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston,
DARWIN: G. T, See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIC.:
S.A.;
W.A.:
TAS.:
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods* Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% trlcalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
CM-
tM
(US*®
Sit*
BO»*
IM**"
I***"
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHAJfc
Any parflcalart gladly lappllad—
Writ. *o OAVIS GELATINE! 6.P0 *»• »tt
SYDNEY • S.P.O. Boi «58. MELBOURNE • G-P-O.
Box 712 P. ADELAIDE • S.P.O. Box TSBK. BRISBANE
• S.P.O Box 588. PERTH „
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
THE WET VOTE
'"THEY say it takes only 10
points of rain to thoroughly
wet a sheep. In the old days it
took three days to dry a sheep.
Now it takes about two days. It
depends on the amount of wind
and sun. Must be different
weather.
Most graziers are experienced
men, and when they consider the
sheep dry enough to shear they
muster them and bring them
into the shed. Not before.
Graziers don’t like their sheep
being shorn wet —wool from wet
sheep, if pressed, opens-up much
less attractively.
So, after much work, muster-
ing, drafting, etc., the owner
brings the sheep into the catch-
ing-pens pretty confident the
shearers will go to work, reason-
ing that the sheep are obviously
dry and the shearers must be
fed-up with lying around the
huts and with no dough coming
in. But underneath he may be a
little apprehensive. He has suf-
fered from the capriciousness of
the shearer-man too many times
before to be absolutely sure.
Well, the shearers straggle up
to the shed to take the vote.
Before starting, the rep. makes
out 20 (if there are 10 shearers)
voting-tickets, 10 “W” (wet)
and 10 “D” (dry), and places
one of each on each shearer’s
stand. The bell goes and every
shearer shears two test-sheep,
then pulls out of gear. The rep.
and his committeeman then go
up to each shearer, tobacco-tin
in hand. One for wets and the
other for drys. A completely
secret ballot. The two shearers
then approach the waiting boss-
of-the-board and owner and
they all squat on the wool-room
floor to count the ballot.
“Seven dry, three wet!” yells
the boss-of-the-board. “Shear
on!” And the rousies look dis-
consolate. Or “Six wets, four
drys,” and he goes and stops the
engine and the rousies cooee with
delight. They’re on the pay-roll
and can bash their spines all day.
If it’s an even vote, five-all, it
means shear on.
However, it says in the award
that after a “dry”-vote a shearer
who had voted “wet” can leave
the board and go to the huts
without anything being done or
said to him. They seldom do
this, preferring to shear on.
Knocking-off tells the shearing-
contractor who were the “wet”-
voters.
The following shed may be a
smaller one, with men to be
dropped, and it’s a good bet that
the known “wet”-voter will be
on the track looking for another
pen. So the shearers zealously
stick to the secret-ballot. Then
the boss can only guess who
drops those “W” tickets in the
committeeman’s tobacco-tin.
It’s hard to get a “dry”-vote
any day after dinner. The
shearer doesn’t like saddling-up
then. In “suburban” shearing
it’s a write-your-own-ticket job
on a Friday-vote if the shearers
are within striking distance of
home ... or a “greasie” may
have a beaut, hangover ; a touch
of the ’flu ; a boil on his knee
... in goes that “W” ticket.
Often, too, the decisive vote is
made because he doesn’t want
the other shearers to get a chop
at his share of the sheep if he
knocks-off too sick to shear. It
may have been a hard, dry run
in the back-country, weeks on
end of hard, unrelenting yakker,
and the boys are tired and can’t
get a day off. There may be a
bit of a scud, or a willy-willy
throws a few wee pebbles on the
shearing-shed’s tin roof. They
vote ’em “wet”!
Some are incorrigible “wet”-
voter's—they think it hurts the
boss. At a 10-stand shed this
year I saw the team vote 9-1
“wet” as what they imagined was
an effective economic retaliatory
action to hurt the contractor —
who was making so much money
that they were the only ones
hurt!
The day before the shearers
had bunged on a blue and
jacked-up for a caser-a-sheep to
shear the Don Juans. Sorry, I’ll
translate: The shearers ceased
work and delivered an ultimatum
to the contractor demanding five-
shillings to shear the rams. Way
above the award. The contractor
dug his toes in and refused to
pay, and the shearers, with a lot
of undrawn dough on the books,
had to capitulate.
Next day, after a wisp of a
shower, came the 9-1 “wet”-
vote . . . one could see the dust
flying out of the sheep as they
dragged the woollies across the
board. Later, at the cut-out, with
the beer in and discretion gone,
the rep. admitted they only
“voted them out” to get square
on the contractor.
The team may take a set on
the owner because he stands on
the board all day watching them
shear. They don’t like that. Or
another owner insists on a “tight
cut” (the sheep shorn meticu-
lously), which brings their tallies
down. So when they get a
chance to vote they will vote
“wet,” and watch with malicious
pleasure the anger and frustra-
tion of the owner. Some squat-
ters, knowing the shearers like to
see such a reaction, accept the
“wet”-vote blandly. But down
in the engine-room a few minutes
later the air is blue.
The chief objection to shear-
ing wet sheep is that shearers
believe it will damage them
physically—cause rheumatism
and impotence. But I’ve heard
old “gun”-shearers of 70, still
shearing over a ton (a 100), say
they’ve shorn ’em wet all their
life, and deny the consequences.
What riles the squatter is the
fact that the shearers will shear
the sheep with water running off
their backs if it suits them: to get
away to another shed, or to a
race-meeting, for instance.
In the award the boss has the
power to bring the shearers to
the shed four times a day—the
beginning of each run —to shear
two sheep and take a vote. If
he is wise he doesn’t enforce this
rule. He will approach the rep.
“When will we give ’em a go
again, Tom?” “I think they
should be pretty right first thing
in the morning,” replies the rep.,
and the boss turns the sheep out
and the shearers shoot through
to town.
The woolclasser has the power
to stop shearing if, in his
opinion, the wool is too wet to
go into the bins.
Bill Howard.
Alkaline Soils
“Billjim”: A Victorian De-
partment of Agriculture survey
in mid-Murray districts of the
State indicates that soil alka-
linity may be reduced; best
component to use is gypsum.
Sulphur will have the same
effect in quicker time, but is
ruled out because of the cost.
Gypsum, on the other hand.
occurs naturally in many
Murray localities.
It is essential that the gypsum
be free from salt. It is necessary
to apply only two or three tons
per acre per year, although an
annual application for several
years may be required. It is
important to irrigate the treated
area frequently, and to grow
catch-crops such as pumpkins
and melons or, alternatively,
encourage weed-growth, to use
up the extra water.
Pasture Species
“Medicago”: Australia’s wide
range of climatic and soil condi-
tions means a wide range of
pasture; certain types giving
optimum production in certain
localities. Many attempts to
publicise one or another species
tend to oversimplify these
regional differences.
The broadest division is, of
course, north and south: the
southern half, which largely
comes within the Antarctic
influence of winter rainfall and
dry summers, and the northern
half, which is dominated by
monsoonal weather, with rela-
tively mild, dry winters and a
summer rainfall.
So far the greatest, though not
the only, advance made in
pasture-improvement in Australia
has been through the medium
of cool-climate species of
pasture-plants in the south.
There we have had the choice
of the best and most productive
species of this type, such as rye-
grass, cocksfoot, phalaris, white-,
red- and sub.-cloyers, making
their best growth either from
spring through autumn in very
cold regions, or from autumn
through spring in regions of rela-
tively mild winters.
The rye-grasses are generally
good seed-producers, leafy,
palatable, but rather shallow-
rooted, requiring both abundant
moisture and a high soil-fertility
throughout growth. The
perennial type, at least, therefore
has greater limitations as to the
extent of its suitability in Aus-
tralia than it has in Europe or
New Zealand. But the somewhat
accidental discovery of an appar-
ently introduced annual species
of rye-grass in Victoria’s
Wimmera district gave rise to
the now well-known Wimmera
rye-grass, which is particularly
well suited to a very wide area of
Australia’s southern wheatbelt.
There, it makes good growth
from autumn through spring, the
dry summer conditions preserve
it as good dry-feed, and the seed
is ready for regeneration in
autumn each year.
Sub.-clover has a similarly
contemporaneous growth and
seeding habit, but it was not
really “discovered” in Australia
until its remarkable response to
super, was observed.
These two species are the main
bases of pasture-improvement
and (clover particularly) of soil-
improvement in the southern half
of Australia.
But despite the, further
improvement which has been
made in the selection of strains
of sub.-clover of varying maturity
(for various regions), and its
ability to succeed on land of
relatively low fertility, or on
weed-infested land, this species
has its limitations. It does not
prosper on alkaline soils, it will
not eliminate skeleton-weed
(although a continuation of
dense stands of sub.-clover over
several consecutive years may
reduce the population of this
weed), and it does not make satis-
factory growth in regions or in
seasons of relatively low rainfall
(i.e., under about 20in.).
A leguminous plant is essential
for good stock-nutrition and for
the nutrition and growth of
associated grasses, as well as for
the improvement of soil-fertility.
There is no better pasture-plant
than lucerne under any of the
conditions indicated in which
sub.-clover is not very satis-
factory, as well as, to some
extent, where it is.
In recent years lucerne has
gone somewhat out of favor
with southern wheatfarmers,
especially with those whose land
is infested with skeleton-weed.
But those who do not properly
appreciate the value of this
“King of Fodders,” or who
exaggerate its few drawbacks
(which every pasture species has),
will be the losers in the long run.
Lucerne-hay
“Ozark”: There is a definite
relationship between the length
of time cut lucerne is left in
the field and the loss of dry-
matter and food-value, accord-
ing to a recent report by the
U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture.
Investigations showed that
harvesting methods which
shortened the field-curing period
were excellent ways of increas-
ing yield, leafiness and quality
of lucerne-hay. The use of a
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
This, the last of the weather forecasts which, over the
years, won for Inigo Jones his great Australian-wide —
and even wider — reputation, was dated November 14,
1954, the day he died % Its last sentence would seem to have
been set down in tragic premonition.
The results of the final Uranian test should be avail-
able in the next report, as the rains of November, 1870, were
from 14th to 18th or 19th. To date, the prospects of this
cycle remaining operative seem quite good, and if so then
the season should be good; otherwise, it may be drier. In
any case, the November cyclical figures are fairly good in
some cycles and very good in others: also in the northern
autumn great storms and rains were reported, and these
should repeat here in the coming autumn, as that seems to
be a cyclical law. There has also been a new sunspot,
though transitory, and from its position it looks as if the
new sunspot period has set in.
In case my health compels me to seek further medical
aid my assistant, Mr. Lennox Walker, is fully competent to
operate the Crohamhurst System and to furnish the usual
reports.
Inigo Jones.


The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PLACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows,
Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illustrated is the
“FARMERS’
BOY”
ROTARY
EOE
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particulars
and for free demonstrations of the *
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BW 4261.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St, Melbourne. MU 8561.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St, Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St, Launceston. S, Anst.:
A. M. Johnson & Sons Ltd., 200-204
Grenfell St. Adelaide. W 1495 & 1824.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO..
74 Castlereagh St.. Sydney.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’* a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision —in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool hare dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too——7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
BfG farming
joblocfof
'n
a
s >
• Bedrock economy.
• Absolute reliability.
• Develops maximum
power at low working
speeds.
• A full range of
"MATCHED - AFTER •
TEST IMPLEMENTS"
make it a Task Force
In Itselfl
32
Sold and Serviced by
Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and
Dealers everywhere.
the NUFFIELD
DIESEL TRACTOR
Basic Tractor with Heavy Duty Wheel Equipment
DOWN PAYMENTS FROM
£345
with generous Terms of Repayment
Tear local Naff eld Dealer will bo glad fa disease
a trade- in of ye or present tractor as part-payment
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales; PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victorias
KELLOW FALKINER PTY. LTD, Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania; METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
iSJK.
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PT Y. LTD.. A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPO R A T I pT Y ; 17 D -
field-chopper instead of a hay-
loader and stationary chopper
made harvesting easier and
saved labor.
Rain-damaged silage was
found to be considerably less
palatable than good-quality field-
cured hay and wilted silage.
Wilted silage did not adversely
affect the quality of cheese
made from the milk. Wilted
silage contained enough vitamin
D to prevent rickets in calves.
Cacao and Coconuts
“Distroff’s” article (B.
3/11/’54) was mainly concerned
with cacao as a main crop. But
as a secondary crop to coconuts
(the backbone of the territory’s
economy), cacao has been of
considerable value during the
reconstruction period in New
Guinea-Papua.
First, let’s look at the eco-
nomic background. London and
New York prices for cocoa from
West Africa and Brazil (the two
chief producers) govern market
trends everywhere. Ten years
ago—when there was a sellers’
market, anyway the West
African industry was hit by the
“swollen-shoot” disease, exports
tumbled and world prices
soared. Even very recently
Papua-New Guinea planters
were cashing-in on the Aus-
tralian demand at a figure
approaching the London peak
of £5525 per ton.
But such fancy prices en-
couraged the production of
cheaper substitutes, particularly
in the U.S., the chief consumer
of cacao-beans. For this rea-
son, and with West African
beans back on the market,
values have fallen to around
£4OO a ton. Other factors may
have been recent political unrest
in Brazil and the devaluation of
that country’s currency.
However, despite talk of “de-
pressed” and “uncertain” mar-
kets, the Papua-New Guinea
grower isn’t doing too badly.
His production-costs are about
£175 a ton. Export-level is
rising steadily.
In the breeding of cacao-
clones, and in all aspects of
growing, processing and mar-
keting, Papua-New Guinea can
more than hold its own. Yields
of lOcwt. to the acre are possible
now: under coconuts, with
mixed-planting material, 3cwt.
or 4cwt. is very fair.
Popular planting - distances
for coconut-palms has been
28ft. by 28ft., “on the triangle.”
Inter-planting procedure is to
set three or four hand-selected
seed to a stake in the interstices
down the rows, thinning-out to
one good plant when the seed-
lings are a foot in height. In a
particularly good block, inter-
planted cacao has paid for its
upkeep in a little over three
years. In this type of capital
development there are, of
course, no crippling clearing-
costs.
Shade is essential, particu-
larly in the first year of growth.
It may be cheaply supplied by
cutting and staking the shed
coconut-fronds. After this the
growing crowns of the coconut-
trees will cast adequate shade if
they have been regularly
planted and are well matured.
As the cacao-trees develop,
their own shade wfll weaken
any kunai-grass—chief weed-
pest in all tropical countries and
a sun-lover. Introduced legumin-
ous ground - covers, mainly
pueraria and centrosema, will
then smother it completely.
Under the heavy shade the
ground-covers themselves will
not spread and climb so quickly,
and need less controlling; thus
maintenance - costs are cut
Other benefits are lower soil-
temperature and greater ground-
humidity, and the additional
numiauy,
"leavening” given the soil by
the cacao-roots.
Far from competing with the
established coconut-palms, inter-
P lanted cacao appears to benefit
them - In areas under tbe two
crops CO P Ta yields have risen
noticeably.
Cacao is popular with labor,
as il is a new thin 8 in many dis '
tricts and 110 heavy work is
involved in maintenance or
production.
Processing the fermenting
and drying of the beans when
separated from the cut pods—is
simplei a plant to produce a ton
P e r week may be built almost
entirely from bush materials.
Fermenting is done in a battery
of proper i y constructed hard-
wood boxes, taking four to five
days > though this period, like
the drying, is a variable. Fer-
mented beans are sun-dried on
bush-timber trays in about the
same time. Small hot-air dryers
have been built in wetter dis-
tricts. Mechanical dryers are
for the main-crop cacao-planter,
Chief restriction to greater
use of cacao as a secondary
crop with coconuts is that suit-
able areas on many existing
estates are patchy. The plant
will not tolerate “wet feet.”
Poorly drained areas or places
with a high water-table won’t
do it is also attractive to
insect-pests, and requires con-
stant pruning and ca M re
nSs%s%lss*s
Uipping
“RiiHim”- Twr» in
HinninJ sheen are tn that the
“ inwod conation and
Z t cLn r IS
[ bat e Y*: ry shee P » dipped
thoroughly, carefully and
cleanly.
Befp re starting, see that dip
is calibrated correctly. Run-m
the , . water al ? d mar H . the sides ’
making smaller divisions near
the top. As the marks can be
rubbed off, make two dip-sticks,
one for immediate use and one
as a reserve. Make sure that
the plunger, crutch and wire-
mesh skimmer are in order, also
the sump and strainers.
If the weather is fine, dip 10
days t 0 a fortnight after sheep
have been shorn. Another point
in favor of early dipping is that
the sheep will dry quickly, re-
ducin 8 risk of pneumonia. Early
dipping also reduces the risk of
arsenical-poisoning.
Dip ration-sheep first, wethers,
ewes, rams and lambs follow-
ing in that order, so that the
hardiest sheep take the coldest
plunge and the dip is warmed
for the weaker animals.
Yard the flock overnight and
provide water so that sheep will
not drink the dipping-fluid,
Drive slowly to the dip to avoid
overheating. Plunge each one
into the fluid twice, taking care
with rams wh other
ears may harbo
vermin. . , . .
Don t overcrowd the draining-
pens so that sheep block the
exit from the dip. jnere snoma
be shade availableJor the
dipped sheep, to P r ® ® ,
mg. Finish the operation Y»
so that all dry before nightfall.
Sheep should not be move g
distances immediately aft
dipping. . .
These are all simple rules,
but they’re often forgotten.
„ ue_x_
Farm Mints
, „
“Murphy”: A few don ts
r P otatoes , : Don t leave the
tubers on tbe gr ?. und ex P os ®d
‘° the sun afierd.gg.ng.don’t
market new potatoes unless they
are quite ma ture; and if you are
harV esting on hot days don’t
work in the heat of the day
( sp i n it out over early-mornings
and i a te-afternoons) if you
don’t want scalded murphies.
“Hawk-eye”: Disease among
fowls doesn’t come as a whole-
sale attack usually, but is
brought about by infection from
one fowl to another. So watch
for the chook that is acting
strangely, the ones that mope or
that walk in a stilted manner,
Layers that stay on the perches
at feeding-time should be isolated
for treatment or execution,
according to diagnosis.
“Chirp”: A broody hen needs
to be in good health to last the
21 days of tedious setting. Watch
for usual signs of health—red
comb warm to touch, eyes bold
and bright, clean plumage.
“T.K.”: Brownish incrusta-
tion and cracks in grapes may be
caused by bunch-mite (red,
almost invisible). It attacks the
stalks, arresting development,
Spray with lime-sulphur, just
before; the buds
tOeak water The snrav will
g discourage other vinevard
**o ducmirage otl
such as leaf-blister mite
and leaf-rust mite,
acainst frost
U
Department of Agriculture
. , during the snring
g hi “ should to
_ ® h beat „„ DOS .
done by judicious irrigation and
a_ minimum of cultivation. Tests
show that any form of soil dis-
trnbm increases the possibih-
ties of frost damage. Cover-crops
and volunteer-weed growth also
increase the frost risk. The
department advises the vigneron
not to carr y ou t any further
cultivation until mid-November
at least ,
„
R - • Sheep which have died
of pulpy-kidney will show the
typical shapeless kidneys if
opened several hours after
death. If examined soon after
death the kidneys may appear
normal, and traces of the disease
are hard to detect.
_ „
_ Big Billy : Experiments m-
dicate that hormone weed-
killers will control growth of
rushes; most efficient seems to
be either the ethyl-ester or
amine-salt of 2,4-D applied at
21b. of acid equivalent per acre,
Rushes should be mowed in
November and sprayed when
the regrowth is still soft, or
about 18in.
‘Loc’ : Sandy soil (not loose
sand) is very suitable for fowls
Provides good drainage, and
suitable for the very important
dust-bath. Loose sand is a har-
bor for pests and becomes very
hot in summer. Locations with
a gravel drift or clay content are
uncomfortably cold in winter,
Before erecting the fowlhouse
take note of prevailing winds
and build to avoid them.


engineering stood him in good
stead.
It is amazing to think that
there should have been such an
aggregation of talent in a
community which in 1813
held only 12,000 souls, seven-
eighths of convict origin, most
of the rest military on three-
years’ duty, and the dependants
of these. By 1821, when the
population was a little over
30,000 in the whole mainland,
Sydney had buildings to show
worthy of Europe.
That period left us the peer-
less convict-barracks at the head
of King-street, the first and
noblest of all Greenway’s build-
ings, now desecrated by the
accretions tacked on to it by
generations of Bumbles; St.
James’ Church ; St, Matthew’s,
Windsor ; St. Luke’s, Liverpool;
the towers of St. John’s, Parra-
matta (the work of John Watts,
a professional architect of the
46th Regiment and a relative
of Mrs. Macquarie, with whom
he collaborated closely); old
Government House at Parra-
matta (a John Watts reconstruc-
tion, beautifully preserved); the
great Greenway stables in Mac-
quarie-street, now mutilated and
used as the Conservatorium.
The next decades gave
the beautiful houses that dot the
town and countryside of
the County of Cumberland, the
Southern Tablelands and the
Hunter River country. They
culminated in the works of
Mortimer Lewis Camden
Church, and his characteristic
court-houses and other public
buildings and the works
of Verge: Elizabeth Bay
House, Denham Court and the
completion of Camden Park
and’ of part of Elizabeth Farm
surroundings. It was to his
“judicious taste” the age was in-
debted “for most of the villas
now on Woolloomooloo Hill,”
some of which the “Gazette” of
the day reckoned “worthy of the
suburbs of London” in an age
of elegance. A few still stand,
dilapidated, in byways.
These men left Australia a
remarkably beautiful country
architecturally. A later age de-
stroyed and overlaid their works
with a vandalism which is
scarcely credible.
If it were not for the patient
and skilled professional work of
Mr. Herman over a number of
years even the plans and general
contemporary atrrtosphere of
much of the early architectural
loveliness would have been lost
permanently. His work—skilful,
historical and tasteful, and accu-
rate architecturally therefore
marks, in its way, the start of
another new era in architecture
which is beginning to make its
existence obvious —an era in
which lovers of historic beauty
are beginning to track down and
record the details of early
buildings, their methods and
materials, and of the anatomy of
the early colonial architecture
generally. Mr. Herman, among
other things, does a great service
in showing all lovers of historic
beauty what details to record
and how.
1 his book is a magnificent
start.. It will be very difficult to
displace it as the standard work
on early colonial architecture.
And it is to be hoped that in
future editions it will be enlarged
to embrace even more records
than are within the copious
range of its well-documented
and -annotated pages and its 125
illustrations in color and line.
Columlus ot the
Lizard
f\ LEXANDER is the eldest
/ I in our family. We have
L I always been taught to
respect age, and so it is
only natural that we regard
Alexander as our leader —that is,
as a kind of constitutional leader,
because Cora is the most venture-
some of us, and always usurps
the leadership when there is
adventure afoot. When there is
no adventure in sight, Cora
usually manages to create one.
On this particular day Cora
was Lady Jane Grey. It was the
fourth day in succession that she
had been Lady Jane. On the
previous three days she had been
engaged in having her head cut
off. This, no doubt, was quite
entertaining for Lady Jane, but
was becoming somewhat
monotonous for the rest of us
who only played minor parts in
the drama. Today, however,
Cora decided that Alexander
should be Columbus and we were
off to discover America. The
rest of us constituted the crew
of the Golden Hind.
The Atlantic was only a few
hundred yards down the hill
from the homestead, and we set
out after lunch. Dennis and the
twins, Emmaline and Frances,
rode down on Tawny Port, and
we gave them the provisions we
wdiild need on our sea-voyage.
The privilege of riding Tawny
Port was usually reserved for
Dennis, Emmaline and Frances,
because they were the youngest
and they tired more easily.
The Atlantic was not very
much more than a trickle —a
string of shallow pools joined by
little cascades falling away in
steps from where it began in one
corner of the home-paddock to
where it cut a deep gully through
the black soil near the eastern
boundary and flowed into the
neighbor’s property. It was the
scene of many of our escapades.
In the shallower parts it was
teeming with tadpoles, and little
black beetles which skated over
the surface. Multicolored
dragon-flies hovered near the
blades qf grass at the water’s
edge. Further along crayfish-
holes were bored through the
soft black soil and grey-black
frogs sheltered under the flat
stones. Leeches with black and
yellow stripes were a hazard to
be avoided when we went
swimming in the shallow water
in warm weather.
/’"'ORA and Alexander were
first aboard. Having
removed their shoes and socks
they stood knee-deep in the
stream.
“Emmaline and Frances will
have to stay ashore and look
after Tawny Port,” decided
Cora. “They have colds, and
anyway they’re too young to go
on a long sea-voyage.”
“Besides, we need someone
trustworthy to guard Tawny,”
said Alexander diplomatically.
“It’s a very important job, look-
ing after the Queen’s charger.”
The twins gazed with renewed
interest and affection at Tawny
Port’s drooping head and pro-
truding backbone and appeared
reconciled to their allotted task.
“It’s time we were off,” said
Columbus, “Is Lady Jane
aboard?” Upon being reassured
of this, he announced that Jimmy
Mark II was the navigator, and
Dennis and I the crew.
Perhaps I should explain at
this stage that my name is
Benjamin, and that I am younger
than Alexander and Cora.
Dennis has just started school,
and Emmaline and Frances are
nearly five.
“All aboard! ” shouted
Columbus. “Anchors aweigh!
Full steam ahead!”
I considered protesting at this
last command, but thought better
of it. After all, Columbus ought
to know best what made his ship
move, and to object might be
mutiny,
Jimmy, who was often called
Jimmy Mark II to distinguish
him from his father, Old Jimmy,
the “help,” was showing
tremendous activity in getting the
ship under way, and guiding her
out through the rocks into the
open sea. He made it obvious
that the Golden Hind was a
paddle-wheeled steamer. We
well knew that this was wrong,
but it was a breathless spring
day, and it seemed advisable to
suffer Jimmy’s anachronism
rather than to be becalmed.
Through expert navigation and
the labors of an industrious crew
we negotiated various hazards,
including our old favorite, the
Sargasso Sea, and, thoroughly
drenched, eventually arrived in
America.
Lady Jane staggered ashore
and flopped exhausted on the
grass. “Just in time for
the Boston tea-party,” she
announced.
Tawny Port was at hand, and
she unhitched the bag of biscuits
and scones from the saddle. The
twins had utilised our absence
abroad and had already eaten
more than their share of the food.
They wandered away with Tawny
Port, and began exploring pnder
the flat granite stones on the
hillside.
With somewhat subdued
enthusiasm the rest of us debated
the merits of conquering the
Indians or of returning across the
ocean by an even more hazardous
route. There was frost in the
air, and Alexander and I favored
settling permanently in America
rather than facing the unpleasant
drenching which would inevit-
ably accompany a further
rigorous sea-voyage. Cora, on
the other hand, considered it our
duty to discover the North-West
Passage, and perhaps shoot a
couple of whales on the way.
A piercing shriek from up the
hill effectively ended the discus-
sion. Emmaline was shaking
her hand in obvious distress, and
Frances was jumping up and
down yelling for assistance.
America and its Indians were
forgotten in the crisis. We raced
up to where Emmaline was sit-
ting down holding her fingers in
her mouth and wailing loudly.
Frances wailed in sympathy.
“A lizard bit me,” sobbed
Emmaline.
XJERE, indeed, was an alarm-
AX ing situation. Old Jimmy
had been telling us all about
lizards only yesterday. We all
looked at Jimmy Mark 11.
“Isn’t a lizard-bite poisonous?”
asked Cora —fearfully, and with
no sign of her former poise as
Lady Jane Grey. It was not
often that Cora turned to Jimmy
for advice, but this time the
question was directed to him.
He rose to the occasion.
“A lizard-bite is poisonous,”
he said with satisfaction, “but
you won’t die if you kill the
lizard what bit you. If you
don’t kill it you die a horrible
death at sunset.” Encouraged by
the effect of his announcement,
he repeated, “You die a horrible
death at sunset. You feel as if
knives are cutting into your
liver.”
Emmaline had stopped crying
and was holding her hand at
arm’s-length, as if she would like
to have disowned it. We
examined the hand. There was
no blood, but Emmaline
indicated a dent on the back of
the hand. I suppose it could
have been a dimple, but we did
not think so.
“How do you feel?” said
Alexander.
“Like as if knives are cutting
into my liver,” she replied,
sobbing again, Frances joined
in. The twins always cried
together.
‘‘Where did the lizard go?”
“There”—pointing to a crack
between two big rocks.
We found a big stick and tried
to prise the rocks apart, but the
stick broke and the rocks did not
move.
“It’s getting late. It should be
dark in about an hour’s time.
I’d better let Tawny Port go,”
said Jimmy, and he sauntered up
the hill leading Tawny by the
bridle.
When he came back he pro-
duced a piece of string, tied half
a scone to it and lowered it into
the crack. “We haven’t much
time, and we must catch that
lizard before sunset,” explained
Jimmy. “Before you die you
go all numb and stiff,” he added
as an afterthought.
“How do you feel?” asked
Alexander.
“All numb,” said Emmaline.
“It had a long tail.”
'THE lizard refused to be
-*■ coaxed out Py the scone, and
there was nothing to do but wait
for Emmali&e to die. I wondered
if Frances would die, too. I had
heard thfct twins always did
things together—or did that only
apply to Siamese twins?
“It’s nearly dark,” said
Alexander. “How do you feel?”
“All numb and stiff,”
Emmaline faced death with
admirable composure; What a
pity she had to go. She would
have been a brave companion
when we were conquering the
Indians.
“I’m hungry,” said Dennis,
who was not a talkative person,
but usually said what he meant.
We suddenly realised that we
were all hungry. Someone
began to call for us from the
house. The sun had gone behind
the hill.
“How do you feel?” said
Alexander once again.
“A bit better.” ,
Jimmy’s disappointment was
obvious. His reputation was at
stake.
“Perhaps it was the wrong sort
of lizard,” consoled Cora.
“I feel a lot better,” said
Emmaline apologetically.
“I’m hungry,” repeated
Dennis—querulously this time.
Again someone called from the
house.
“I’m hungry, too,” said
Emmaline.
The stars were beginning to
twinkle, and the pine-trees at the
homestead were barely dis-
cernible. We walked back up the
hill to the house. It must have
been the wrong sort of lizard.
by
Evan Dale
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 305
Across
I—The racehorse on the rails has
this control of the interior. (6, 7)
B—Flivver8 —Flivver (as a Spaniard might write
it) takes it back to a gallows
imp. (15)
10 — Balderdash by a conservative
with regard to spin. (8)
11— Lie to a Marxist with string
tissues. (6)
14 —Row runs around a motordrome,
for instance, for a rabbit with
horizontal ears. (7)
17— Ache cut out of an astringent for
dyeing or tanning. (7)
18— Island group once thought to
have been part of the New
Guinea mainland. (3)
19 — They indicate powers for poetic
India if given refreshments from
the refrigerator. (7)
21 —The hidden shelter of 14 across.
(7)
23 — You have a way with the Queen
of the bygone day. (6)
24 — Twenty shillings to an uncle who
is always on the watch for news?
(8)
28— Ideal group ill in dislocating an
Italian winner of the Nobel
Prize. (5, 10)
29 — What to do after borrowing a
light series of encounters for the
same teams later in the season.
(6, 7)
Down
1— A complex subject. (11)
2 If rents disturbed a beaut! (7)
3 It is no credit to upset the bed
on it. (5)
4 It doesn’t come to light so often.
(5)
5 A famous fighting force goes to
the North, but it is quite
ingenious. (4)
6 He starts in it, but I go to a
rocky mountain. (9)
7 A joker to know, (3)
9—Kind of acid. (5)
12 Cheat a description of twenty?
(6, 5)
13 Porgy from South Carolina like
overhead swing in the cups. (4)
15— A Leaving Certificate male fog
suggests a play by Ben Jonson.
16 — A sibilant as the aspirate part of
a window. (4)
20 It is darker of the French winter-
sports exponent. (7)
22 ~Are leaving the square before
Belch loses his head to crush
down the lot of it. (7)
25 Take the weapons away from
Manru. (5)
26 Acted over the way, but your
acting is questioned. (5)
27 Angeli wharf is ripe for a change.
(4)
28 — The French kiss is loose. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 304


k
CAMPING SECTION |
TENTS & TARPAULINS
Vnr I*.
EX-ARMV
COTTAGE TYPE TENT
Complete with poles and fly.
Size 14 x 12. Made from heavy-
duty canvas. Will stand any
weather. Price £22%
Tents only—no fly or poles.
Price £l2-g
Grey
Oilskin
Type
Raincoats
AH Sixes.
Price
75/- each
Post 3/ti extra.
Ex-Army ANTI-GAS HAVERSACKS
Final Release. Ideal tor school bags
lunch bags, fishing gear, etc. Perfect
condition.
5/6 each
Post 2/- extra.
Special quote for quantity.
Kit Bags
Heavy Duty
Canvas.
14/6 each
Post 3/- extra.
Ex-Military
lESGIHGS
(leather);
MecSinm size only.
Price 10/6 pr.
FISHERMAN'S
DREAM
spring hand scale,
will weigh up to
161 b. Brand new
price
to/'
Post 2/6 extra.
Brand New Ex-Army Hammock
Or can be used as a Stretcher Cover. Made
from heavy quality Jute, 10ft. Jin. x 2ft. Jin.
14 Eyelets either side. Reinforced. 3 ropes
llin. long. A first-class buy.
19/6 each
Post 3/6 extra
BRAND NEW DESUTI CANVAS
MATTRESS COVERS
To suit single bed and mattress.
Post 3/6 extra.
Price 19/6 Each.
Fly Screen Wire
100 ft ROLLS
TSE
BRAND NEW.
Roll lots only.
{Min, 40/-; 30in, 50/-, 36in, 60/-
Special ex-R.A.A.F. 50 x 30 Store Tent.
Brand new condition.
£7O each
Ex-R.A.A.F. 30 x 20 Marquee Tent
Roofs.
Price £25
EX-ARMY TARPAULINS
Heavy duly. Size 18 x 12.
Special Price £lO
Don’t delay. _____
2-HOLE COOKER
Ideal for camping. Can be used with
primus stoves or open nrc.
Price 10/- each
RIFLE SPECIAL
Including gun buck-
et 30/- (new),
Cleaner 3/6, Rifle
Oil 5/6. bandolier
3/11.
101 37/6
Only Mall Order with this
UNLIMITED STOCKS
TABLES EX-ARMY
Kire
Good condition. Mess type, with
stools attached. Ideal for large families,
shearers, caterers, etc. Incomparable
value. Size 7ft x 3ft. £4/10/-
PRICE ' J.l
6ft s 3ft Folding Table
EX-ARMY WEBB GAITERS
Good condition- ideal for bush walkers,
muddy work, etc.
WALK IN COMfOR*
*buoT
Price 3/6 pair
Post 1/- extra.
CANVAS FOLDING (HAIRS
Arm-rest type.
Condition perfect.
Ideal for week-enders,
camping, leisure.
Price 30/- each
Ensure Perfect Sleep
MOSQUITO NETS
Brand New. Ex-Amy
MOSQUITO NETS
to suit single bed.
Color white.
Price 35/- each.
Post 3/6 extra.
White Double Bed
MOSQUITO NETS
Price 45/- each.
Post 3/6
Ex-Army green. Used
condition. Perfect.
Price 32/6 each.
Ex.-R.A.A.F.
SLEEPING BAGS £5
Valises and Sleeping Bags
EX-K.A.A.E. Officer’s Valise
to suit Sleeping Bag. Blanket
lined. Complete with M
hoods • ••
NOTE —These two combined
make best waterproof sleep-
ing bag ever made. £7/IC /
Price the Two .. / IJ /
CLOTHING SECTION
THIS COLUMN Of SPECIAL INTEREST TO GUESTHOUSES,
SHEARING PROPERTIES, WEEK-ENDERS, ETC.
25
a
EX-ARMY BLANKETS
Pure wool, laundered, perfect condition. Single-bed size.
Price 25/- each
FOLDING STRETCHERS
TUBULAR STEEL
uitable for residential*, shearers’ sheds,
iamond wire. Every bed guaranteed,
Priced at £2/10/- each.
COOP CONDITION.
""All-steel SINGLE BEDS
Price 50/- only.
Steel, diamond spring wire,
hese beds are new and never been used,
tepainted black. Standard single-bed
size.
Ex-Army
STRETCHERS
Reinforced Steel Joints. Jute Top.
Completely folding.
Price 37/6 each.
that
EX-ARMY SHEETS
have been laundered.
Single bed slate.
Price 12/6 pr.
Post 2/- extra
MATTRESS
Ex-Army heavy-duty Fibre Mattresses
with brand new Desoufh Mattress
Cover to suit. Single-bed size 39/6
only. Price the two
XXX SPECIAL
1 Folding Bed.
1 pr. repaired Sheets.
1 pr. Blankets.
1 Mattress with Cover.
1 Pillow.
Take advantage of our enormous
stocks.
£7/10/- the lot
EX ARMY KHAKI DRILL TROUSERS
|Brand new. 5 pockets.
!Two hip, two side, one
ion knee. Size 23 has 41in
i waist, 50in outside leg,
36in Inside leg. 32 has
;40in waist, 51 Win outside
leg, 39in Inside leg. 34
has 42in waist, _ 47Win
outside leg, 37Win inside
leg. t
Price 35/- pr.
Post 2/6 extra.
Unlimited stocks.
' ex-naval
SQUARE RIC SHIRTS
,
White (laundered). Heavy duty. An
ideal work shirt.
Price 10/- each
All Sizes.
Post 2/6 extra.
1 Wool and Cotton Knee-length
UNDERPANTS
Brand new.
Price 15/6 pair
Ist-class quality.
Post 2/- extra.
Brand
New
WOMEN'S
ALL-WOOL
CARDIGANS
Sizes SW, W,j
OS. Colours
Maroon. Light
Bine, Green,
I Grey, Brown,
Navy Blue.
PRICE
32/6
EACH
Limited Stock.
Be Early.
WOMEN’S
SHOWER-
PROOF
GABERDINE
RAINCOATS
Single-
breasted
Shoulder
pads,
complete
with belt.
Women’s
size only.
Price
39'6
Post 3/6
extra.
DRINKING GLASSES
10oz middy size.
Price 6/- doz.
~~ BRAND NEW
Ex-American
Army Boots
Suede. Le
Soles.
Sizes 10i
Price 40/- pair
Post 3/6 extra.
and Leather
11, 12.
lISHEHNIN
Williams
BERGER?
5
raw
TINS
5 GALLON
PAINT in f gall. Tins
Choose your own Colours and
Quantity.. Colours, green, blue, black,
yellow, earth. Good for only wood
and Iron.
Price 5 gall. 75/-
PLEASE WRITE NAME AND ADDRESS PLAINLY AND IN BLOCK LETTERS
NO C O D. MAIL, PHONE, OR CALL NO C.O.D.
Add Exchange to Cheques. When delivered at Siding please add Freight.
KING
S
£adcUeSiif
LEATHER GOODS-TYRES
GENERAL MERCHANTS
ţ
122-124 Devonshire St.
Sydney
A few doors from Elizabeth Street, near Central Station
Phones: FA 7691—MX 3954. After hours only: MX 1269
BRAND NEW
TRUCK TYRES
122-124 DEVONSHIRE STREET, CITY
NEW TYRE SPECIALS
- o i a . r £l7 10 0 each
750 x 18, 10 . each
1050 X 13. 18 p y o 0 eacl.
1050 x 16, 13 ply £23 10 0 each
900 x 16, 10 ply
TRUCK TYRES —SECOND-HAND
o 1 .. £i) 0 0 each
650 x .JO, 8 ply iq o each
™» x *»!!! py IS i« «ead.
750 X -0, 10 ply o each
825 x 30, 10 ply q q each
900 x 30, 10 ply jq o each
1050 x 20, 10 ply |., 5 0 0 pach
1100 x 20, 12 ply tir > 0 0 ea<
AERO-TYRES COMPLETE
16in. x 4in., suitable for Light Trailer or Wheelbarrow
at £5/10/- complete, tube, tyre and hub.
27in. suitable for Trailers, to carry up to 4 tons
£lB per pair, or £9, tyre, tube, an f ,^ VI "; UV , d s<, r
1400 x 14, to carry up to 10 ton. Complete with disc
wheel. £25 each. Or £5O per pair. All lie ™‘ .
We carry the largest stock o * Bll write
N S.W. We can supply any size made. 1 lease win,
for quotation of price and size required, liactor and
aero tyre specialist.
BOYS&emS
SADDLE'
BOYS' AND GIRLS' SADDLES
Brand new, fully mounted.
Price £l3/10/- each
A perfect Christmas present.
The cheapest saddles in Aus-
tralia. Full size. Brand new
stock or poley. Steel tree, fully
mounted.
£l5
A first-class boy.
Also better quality stock or
poley saddle, folly moupted.
From £lB/18/- to £2B/10/-
PLEASE NOTE; There is no
rise in price of our saddles due.
to the foresight of our buyers.
S.H. Riding Saddles fully re-
paired and reconditioned
From £l2/10/- to £2O
Effigy
PACK SADDLES
Brand new, ex-Army.
Price £9/19/6
These arc in perfect con-
dition and cannot be
purchased anywhere else.
I
EX ARMY GIGGLE JACKETS
Ail sizes.
Price 9/6 each
Ideal for work or fishing-
Post 2/6 extra.
EX-ARMY DRILL JACKETS
Men’s size only.
Price 14/6 each
Post 2/6 extra.
EX-ARMY KHAKI PULLOVERS
V neck, long sleeves. Men
and small men’s siz.es.
22/6 each
Post 3/6 extra.
SPANNER SPECIAL
V) SPANNERS of various
SIZES' and TYPES.
PRICE
49/11
Never been used.
I
Set Fire Brand New Pure Bristle
PAINT BRUSHES
Set In Rubber.
Sizes 4in, 3in, 2in, Wto» Us*
Price 35/' Set
Post 3/6 extra.
PAPERHANGER'S BRUSH
Pure bristle. Size 10ln.
Price 19/6 each
Post 2/- extra.
COMMERCIAL ARTIST BRUSH SET
6 brushes, all types.
Price 15/-
Post 1/3 extra.
STIPPLING BRUSHES
Brand new. Size SV2 x 354.
Price £2/10/- each
WOODEN TOOL BOXES
Ex-Army ammunition cases.
Sizes 21 x 11 x 15, 36 x 15 x
9. Can be used as large
store chests. Price 20/- e».
Ideally suited for car tools,
etc. 22 x 8 x 7. Price 7/6 ea.
PAINJ
OIL
m
WU
OIL
base
19'6 Per GALLON
Oil Paint Clearance!
PAINT
Special clearance of old stock. Ideal
for first coat or undercoat. Colours
dark grey (earth), chocolate, green,
red oxide, brown.
The manufacturers’ names inclsid.
Balm, Sherwin & Williams, Jenson
& Nicholson, etc.
Special price 19/6 gall.
In 5 gall, drums.
Zinc chromate yellow Primer in 5-
gall. only. Spartan brand. Perfect
nndercoat for a high-class job.
Price 25/- gall.
Mill white water paint in single
Price 15/* gall.
Minimum quantity sold by mail 4
ONE AND TWO MAN CROSSCUT SAWS. Ist GRADE STEEL
ONE MAN
PRICE SO/-
TWO MAN
PRICE 59/6


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue fQld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Shearing
Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire pairs Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
gßpepfured monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
November
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture.
1954
Increased Agricultural Production Poses Problems...
MOVES TO ENSURE QUALITY
& MAINTAIN PRICE STABILITY
Because production costs and quality will play an important role in the development of
new markets for the increasing production of our Primary Industries, there is a growing
impetus amongst Primary Producers towards exploiting our natural resources to the fullest
extent with the help of scientific research.
A new £lOO,OOO Research Institute has just been opened at Wagga, N.S.W. charged with
solving problems associated with farming in southern and central N.S.W., with particular
emphasis on the development of a new higher-yielding,
better quality wheat than Bencubbin. This work will be of
eventual benefit to the whole country.
The visiting American Wool men,
who have recently toured Australian
wool-producing areas at the invita-
tion of the Australian Wool Bureau,
were high in their praise of the
amount of pasture improvement in
evidence. Significantly, however, it
was noted that there were short-
comings in the development of our
water resources.
The unanimous impression of
recent visitors from overseas seems
to have been that, although on the
organisational level Australian
Primary Industries were of a high
standard, a lot remains to be done
in the basic development of water,
power and transport facilities and
the more efficient mechanisation of
farm and grazing properties.
All-Round Efficiency Lowers
Production-Costs...
and the basis of that efficiency is the provision of
economical power for the Man-on-the-Land.
An old engine, just like out-dated
and worn-out plants of any sort,
needs constant attention, uses more
fuel and is always liable to costly
breakdowns. That’s why it’s always
cheaper in the long run to replace
it before it becomes a wasteful
liability. The “horse and buggy”
man who refuses to face the facts
will eventually lose-out to the pro-
gressive farmer who turns his
property into an up-to-date “raw
materials factory.”
The Big “Cost-cutter". ..
ECONOMICAL
STATIONARY POWER
ill any modernisation programme you can look to the
Moffat-Virtue range of engines to provide the best station-
ary power for your requirements. In sizes from 2J h.p.
Petrol Engine to a 50 h.p. Full Diesel.
Manufactured in Australia, to suit
Australian conditions, Moffat-
Virtue engines range in sizes from
2| h.p. Petrol Engine to a 50 h.p.
Full Diesel.
Every possible improvement in pro-
duction-technique is used in the
manufacture of these engines, so
that the finished product, after being
precision tested and run-in, is ready
for reliable, economical service on
any job.
BETTER
ENGINEERING
SAVED DIESEL—
Soon after Rudolph Diesel mar-
keted his Diesel Engines at the turn
of the century, they were threatened
with failure due to the crude
methods of manufacture then being
used. However, engineering experts
were able to increase the precision
of production techniques suffici-
ently to ensure the efficient running
of the Diesel Engines.
People would not buy a new
machine which they had seen was
constantly subject to break-downs.
Yet today machines are still in use
which, comparatively speaking, are
as clumsy and inefficient as were
the early diesel engines.
Since Diesel’s time the tempo of
industry has quickened, and the
demand for engineering “know
how” has tremendously increased.
The knowledge, experience and
skill of modem engineering experts
is being utilized by firms like
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd.
The advantages of mass-production,
coupled with many wonderful
An artist’s impression of Rudolph
Diesel’s first successful “Diesel”
Engine.
super-accurate measuring devices,
have enabled Moffat-Virtue to pro-
duce low-priced engines of the very
highest quality for every need.
EQUAL TO THE
WORLD'S FINEST
Moffat-Virtue “V3” Petrol-Kerosene
Engines are available in 2¼ h.p. and
3 h.p. models. Noted both for
efficiency and dependability.
Moffat-Virtue Diesel Engines, avail-
able in stationary and portable models
ranging from 3½ h.p. up to 50 h.p.
The exclusive M.V. Diesel “Cyclonic
Turbulence” combustion head places
these engines years ahead of all others.
Means greater economy and easier
maintenance.
Moffat-Virtue “Rosebery” Petrol-
Kerosene Engines are available in
4 h.p. and 6 h.p. models, in both
hopper and tank-cooled types.
Full particulars about the
MOFFAT - VIRTUE Range of
Stationary Power Engines, as well
as all the other famous “M-V”
Products, may be obtained from the
State Distributors listed at the fool
of this page.
