

e
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
THE PETROV REPORT -page zs
“The Bulletin,” Vol 76—No. 3947
Wednesday j October 5, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.§.W„ Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
CHATSWORTH'S PAINTED HALL
IS LAGUERRE'S VAST CANVAS
TJRITAIN is rich in opportunities for
** seeing what the great painters of the
past could achieve on walls and ceilings
when their imaginations were unfettered
by the restraining limit of the picture
frame. Antonio Verrio, Laguerre, James
Thornhill, Rubens and De Critz are
names which stand out above all others
in this form of art, and their work can
be seen today in palaces and country
mansions which are open to the public.
An outstanding example of Laguerre’s
work can be seen in the Painted Hall of
magnificent Chatsworth, home of the
Dukes of Devonshire, which stands in its
spacious park near Bakewell in Derby-
shire. Laguerre, who worked at Chats-
worth at the end of the seventeenth-
century, covered the walls and ceiling,
shown in the accompanying illustration,
with immense compositions based on the
life of Julius Caesar and a heroic
rendering of his reception by the gods
after the sands of mortality had run out.
The fine staircase rising from the Hall
is modern, and the gilt ironwork was
copied from the balustrade wrought in
1689 by the great French artist, Tijou,
for the Great Stairs seen through the
archway.
From the Painted Hall a corridor leads
to the Chapel, in which Laguerre painted
the walls and ceiling, but his finest work
is to be seen in the State Rooms, which
are the main feature of this palatial
house. They comprise the State Dressing
Room, the State Bedroom, the State
Music Room, the State Drawing Room
and the Great Chamber. Vast is the
word which describes them all, and many
years of painstaking work went into
their decoration. Many of them contain
priceless works of art, and among the
many pictures in the famous Devonshire
Collection are those by Van Dyck,
Titian, Holbein, Reynolds and Leonardo
da Vinci.
No less renowned are the stately
gardens which surround this great
mansion, known as the Palace' of the
Peak. Cascades, fountains, ponds and
broad walks lined with statues recall
the gardens of Versailles. Death duties
on the late Duke of Devonshire’s estate
amounted to the prodigious sum of
£2,400,000, which gives some indication
of the value placed on this great country
house, its incomparable contents and its
surroundings.
No. 266: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


Freelance
t mi
If you liave the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted bv 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Huntirtg.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray. St., Perth.
—— CUT ANV MAIL THIS COUPON —— -
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
| gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
| your Literary Courses.
I
j MY NAME
| ADDRESS
| (S.B. 1955).. AGE....”!
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.O., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text_ book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
THREE AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
"Island Victory"
The simultaneous publication of
three Australian novels by Angus and
Robertson is an Event in our rough
island story and should be solemnised
as such with all due rejoicing: the more
so since all the three novels, Norman
Bartlett’s Island Victory, D’Arcy
Niland’s The Shiralee and Ruth Park’s
Pink Flannel, are eminently readable.
Oddly enough, since it deals with
the weightiest subject—nothing less
than the part played by the R.A.A.F.
in the recapture of a Pacific island from
the Japs—Mr. Bartlett’s is the lightest
of the three. It is not so in treatment
—Miss Park’s is the light-hearted one.
It is not so in subject-matter—much
tougher events take place in it than in
Mr. Niland’s pseudo-tough fantasia of
a swaggie. But it is the lightest in its
total effect, for it is sketchy in charac-
terisation and uncertain in dramatic
movement, and therefore fails to strike
home with the impact of stronger Aus-
tralian novels in the same category,
such as Lawson Glassop’s “We Were
the Rats” and T. A. G. Hungerford’s
“The Ridge and the River.”
At about page 104, after describing
how the Americans and the R.A.A.F.
got to the island of Kamiri—the con-
voy; the naval bombardment, the fight-
ing for the air-strip—it does seem that
at last Mr. Bartlett has dropped on to
a dramatic theme: Turner, a young air-
man, very much married to a girl in
Sydney, has been forced to parachute
alone into New Guinea, and, down
the river and through the jungle still
held by the Japs, must make his way
to the coast to be rescued by the
Americans. It is a story full of tension,
and, when the searching Piper Cub
drops him food and his mail, or when
he blunders into a Japanese barge-
camp, we certainly get some curious
and exciting scenes. But then Turner
is duly rescued and more-or-less disap-
pears from sight; and we are left once
again to wonder exactly what—except
in a general way, as the story of a
campaign—the novel is about.
Sometimes it seems to be, like most
war-novels, based on the theme of an
officer’s secret fear; towards the end
it seems to be about the legendary
Japanese guerrilla - leader Colonel
Shimitzu: but no theme, except the
overall story of the campaign, is fully
developed. And that is precisely how
it may be read: as the history of a
campaign in the Pacific, of special
Australian interest since it deals with
R.A.A.F. (and American) actions of
which too little is known, lit with
touches of characterisation and drama
such as are only possible in a novel,
and containing some vivid descriptions
of the fighting—the Japanese suicide-
charge, for instance:—
They came on with the rush of a
surfboat on the crest of a wave.
The sight of them bit into the nerves
like an electric shock. Masters felt
his knees begin to tremble. Why in
hell didn’t that fat-faced Yank give
the order? Masters could see the
charging faces now, yellow, malevo-
lent, distorted with yelling. The
sunlight gleamed on their short
bayonets. They were big men,
Japanese marines. The pick of the
Emperor’s fighting forces, drunk with
saki and glory. Then the major
gave the order. Simultaneously the
two heavy-calibred machine-guns
crashed into life. The ammunition
belts snaked up from their boxes, an
angry, blood-red lick of flame
spurted at the nozzles. The gunner’s
dust-smeared face gleamed trium-
phantly as he slowly made his
traverse. Two converging streams of
heavy lead smashed into the running
men. They went down in heaps,
squirming and yelling. Others, com-
ing on behind, scrambled over their
bodies. A fresh bunch burst from
the cover of the jungle and rushed
forward . . ,
"The Shiralee"
The advantage Mr. Bartlett has ove
Mr. Niland is the naturalness, the
simple lifelikeness of his people, anc
the genuine and tremendous toughnes
of his soldiers as opposed to the manu
factured heroics and vulgarities of the
tough-guy novel. It would be absurc
to doubt that Mr. Bartlett’s soldier
are knocking Japanese off right anc
left; but when Macauley of “The
Shiralee” comes into a country town
and knocks a man down with one swif
punch you really can’t believe it for
a moment.
But the advantage Mr. Niland ha
over Mr. Bartlett—and this is why his
npvel has been a “Daily Mail” book
of-the-month and a Book Society
choice, and has already been bough
for a film-—is that he has a plot.
Was it not Mr. Niland who in
recent book of advice to young short
story writers coined the appalling word
“plotty”? “The Shiralee,” even though
it is a picaresque, about a swaggie
driven from home by his wife’s
adultery and wandering the outback
with his little daughter Buster, is as
plotty as plotty can be. Something
Awful may happen to little Buster
that is what gets you in. Something
in the end, doesn’t; or nothing as bac
as That; but there you are, by that
time you have read the book; and, very
likely, enjoyed it.
Mr. Niland has, in fact, hit upon
the plot which served Dickens so wel'
in “The Old Curiosity Shop,” and by
which Charlie Chaplin tramped to
glory with Jackie Coogan: a little child
tramping the roads; and if Buster is
not kidnapped by rapacious Punch-
and-Judy men nor pursued by so dire
a villain as Quilp—it is only her erring
mother who tries from time to time to
kidnap her—she suffers what are no
doubt quite satisfactory misadventures
when she is left in the care of an
ancient philosophic loon when her
father is delayed in an outback town-
ship; when she is almost turned-out
on to the roads by one of those black-
hearted graziers while she has
pneumonia; and when she is run over
by a car and nearly dies—only just
recovering on the last page in time for
the happy-ending.
To savor the difference between the
Victorian and the modem bestseller
(leaving aside Dickens’s superb
“minor” characters) it is instructive,
no doubt—or at any rate it is amusing
—to compare a little of Little Nell with
a little of Buster. Here are Nelly and
her doddering old grandpapa as they
first set out on the roads: —
“Yes, let us go,” said the child
earnestly. “Let us begone from this
place and never turn back or think
of it again. Let us wander bare-
foot through the world rather than
linger here.”
“We will,” answered the old man ;
“we will travel afoot through the
fields and woods, and by the side of
rivers, and trust ourselves to God
in the places where He dwells. It
is far better to lie down at night
beneath an open sky like that yonder
—see how bright it is—than to rest .
in close rooms which are always full
of care and weary dreams. Thou
and I together, Nell, may be cheerful
and happy yet, and learn to forget
this time, as if it had never been” . ..
and here is Buster with Macauley: —
“Hey, you, come on,” he called
as a man might call a dog.
The kid dawdled out, quickening
its pace when it saw he had already
set out on the road, and caught up
to him.
“Look what the man gave me,
Dad.”
Macauley glanced down at the
brown-paper twist full of lollies,
hard, desiccated and flavorless from
long incarceration in the hazy
showcase; and from there to the
glossy dark-brown eyes and the one
ball-shaped cheek.
“Want one?”
“They’ll rot your guts,” Macauley
said.
The Victorians, it appears, liked to
have their hearts harrowed; we, though
by no means prepared to relinquish that
pleasure, like to have our ears harrowed
as well. But there “The Shiralee” is—
it is plotty. And—so much as Macauley
will let us see of it—it has an Aus-
tralian setting.
"Pink Flannel"
The surprise of the three novels i
“Pink Flannel.” It is one of thos*
secrets which perhaps a reviewer shoulc
not know that Miss Park is also Mrs
D’Arcy Niland; and now that the fatuity
coffers have comfortably been filler
(and a blessing on them) by “The
Shiralee” with its filming and its book-
of-the-monthing—to say nothing of the
contributions that may long ago have
been made by “The Harp in the South’
and “A Power of Roses,” etc.—Miss
Park should really have a little wore
with Mr. Niland about Art; for, like
Miss Park, Mr. Niland has plenty oi :
talent, but, while he is still exploiting
the possibilities of vulgarity and the
machine-made commercial novel, she
at last, has escaped.
Perhaps at the same time Miss Park
could whisper a little word in her own
ear, for it is unwise and unnatural to
describe one’s Uncle Ray as “a
shickered goldfish”: but such lapses are
rare in “Pink Flannel”; and indeed —
quite astonishingly from the author of
“The Harp in the South”; but Miss
Park always had talent—this is a book
that could set one talking about
Colette and Katherine Mansfield.
How much of it is fiction and how
much autobiography it would not be
polite to inquire; but the publishers,
in words that could not be bettered—
how pleasant it is to be able to agree
with a blurb for once, instead of pick-
ing a quarrel with the helpless, anony-
mous thing—say that “For this gay
and light-hearted novel of a New
Zealand country town Ruth Park has
drawn on her own memories to recap-
ture the fresh and uncompromising
vision of childhood”; and, since the
work is put out as a novel, one may
assume that it is childhood memories
dressed-up a little for the sake of
continuity and drama.
Thus, Miss Park and the little girl
from next-door may really have wan-
dered into the empty house near by and
found scattered beads and freshly-
turned gravel which gave them the cap-
tivating illusion that Mr. Fantocini had
slain his wife and buried her there; but
one may be excused from believing
that Miss Park some years later had
her suspicions confirmed by hearing
the disembodied voices of Mr. and
Mrs. Fantocini, still quarrelling, issuing
from the mouth of old Pou, the Maori
tohunga. Not that tohungas are not
very queer birds, capable of flying to
the moon for all one can prove to the
contrary; but small girls do not find
bodies buried in the garden: they only
hope to.
But, except that Miss Park has rather
overdone it in this episode and in the
melodrama of the Hood-Moncrieff
flight when the small narrator of the
book, named Hood, claimed that the
aviator was her father —and subse-
quently “cursed” him and blamed her-
self for his disappearance into the Tas.
it is not in the least important
how much of the book is fact and how
much fiction: it is all full of the stuff
of life; it is “plotty” enough since all
the four Radiant Aunts of the
narrator get married in the end (one
to the pig-man and one to the son of
a Maori chief) despite the opposition
of their tremendous Scandinavian
papa; and, best of all, it is full of
charm, poetiy, comedy and the
authentic flavor of the New Zealanc
earth.
It is a novel which deserves the
warmest recommendation to New
Zealand readers, for very little like
it, at once so true and so rich and so
free from the burden of self-conscious-
ness, has been done over there; except,
of course, with a finer edge of artistry,
by Katherine Mansfield. The town
where it is set is called Te Kano, and
anybody who knows the King Country
will not find it hard to guess where that
might be. It ranges out from there to
places which the present reviewer hap-
pens to know almost as well as Miss
Park does —Kawhia, where the Tainui
lies buried in the sand and Te Maika,
where (though, alas, the heroine of
this book was too young to go fishing)
you could catch such marvellous hauls
of snapper off the Beacon—and part
of any New Zealand reader’s pleasure
in it must be in the vivid re-creation of
the life of these places. The small
heroine even had an uncle who was
a guide at the Waitomo Caves; and
never, gliding in the boat under the
starry sky of the glowworms, could
one have imagined that any of the
decorous official guides, who spent all
their time hushing you so that you
wouldn’t disturb their worms, might
lead, in private, a life so odd and
amusing.
But the story, and the charm of the
writing, will carry the novel in any
country. It is about Cocky Cuskelly, a
subnormal youth given to appearing in
odd places, who once was found by
orchard-raiding Maori boys mas-
querading as a melon; about the old
tohunga, and the Maori chief and his
son, and the scandalous Maori lady
who was starred in a Te Kano film,
characters whom Miss. Park discusses
with the most admirable sympathy and
understanding; about the gallant pig-
man who rescued the family in the
great flood when they crouched in the
rafters with the jars of pickled-onions,
much bothered by cows at the windows
and old Maori skulls swimming by in
the floodwaters; about the courageous
aunt who lived with the ferocious
grandpa at Kawhia and saw fairies
vibrating round the old gentleman’s
canvas hat; about the determined love-
affairs of the four Radiant Aunts; and
about the narrator and her small friend
Pola, quarrelling and making-it-up as
all small girls do, exploring among the
Maoris, avidly watching the antics of
the grown-ups and gradually growing
up themselves. And every word of it
is delightful.
Gertrude Lawrence
It is easy to debunk theatre-romances
as “theatrical,” but when the account
of the marriage of a famous actress is
written by her husband, and he openly
rejoices in the act she puts on as his
wife, as in Gertrude Lawrence as
“Mrs. A,” by Richard Stoddard
Aldrich (Odhams), criticism can only
recall Wilde’s deprecation of efforts to
obtain absolute sincerity: “Give a man
a mask and he will tell you the truth/'
Who knows how many husband-and-
wife acts anywhere, let alone on the
stage, are sincere? But give Gertrude
Lawrence just the one thing, that it
is a new part, and she puts on a wife-
in-a-million. The critic is compelled
to the old cliche about not acting but
being the part, and likely enough Miss
Lawrence was, too.
The show had improbabilities that
her friend Noel Coward, who imagined
her as all his heroines, would never
have allowed. Aldrich was an Ameri-
can—he should have been an English
o Continued on page 55)


§i
A
A
1
\
U
| ' :
/ft.
. “ •
| ‘t l '!ff!s!-;
7/
'
5*3
t
3*2
tf
I
~S
1
s:-
£
SS
33*
/A
1
r\
JZ>
/'//7/'y
W/
i
u
m
■
'ty'/J
Wa
m
&
//
&
4S>
&LO
&
b€
5Sn
o"^
-3CA 7
tf
■&
'ft
<3
wm
>$
!
3®
m
>.
//
<=*>o
0
o o
Q
V
sss
/«-
AV
Si
ft
c
s
A
5%:
i^SiyT?
A
V
fa
\\ti
j>z>
M
1
>s N .
v xwzsm
&
u
: >'
Atiin
■A ■...:
.:!: '■*
vSt
ot
to^
tV
-pes
ttve
tn®
ta*®
oi
¥\o
tn®
opl? 0
eeto-S
et
CatV
ta*
t»®
t'vo
ot
at®
\ea
sotve s ‘
CfVP"
attta
to
-r
SydneJ
of
*»>
to
into
'the
be f C ‘?he i° 4 oc tober
«-»«'* “,«m. "' j, n«®
u -»-„
sw ie -Ait
tbe
\&&y
Ant
See
oo *?«,
b\o otfv . c v dneY
» .- ,
vrt* * •'•» **
7,VH
an d o
-O-ty a Y d.0 at
c otoe , «*
S.e a* !S, * n
ftotai otoP ftoa *s to
v V d f
* e oUI atvA o to **•
decot
tbe
,tte^
6 oti\ *%&** v ; bs to
is a
ipre'
6o r^ sto -
See
T;be
vie^
bee ” ?
0 { 1956 b Vandls e
nvet
’'^dtoS
tt ad^&
s 9 ?? Vi to s *" c,octo^.
Jttoto *s
j * e v :;;;
Su vG t 0
"truth in advertising"


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 5,19 SS
Vol. 76—No. 3947
The Rational Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box 2521 1
"Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathans Buildings (opposite G.P.0. )- Wellington.
ALL HANDS TO THE PURSE-STRINGS
MR. MENZIES’S speech on the economic situa-
tion was the climax to a' series of conferences in
which the Prime Minister had secured general
agreement with the policy his Government feels it
necessary to pursue to avert a crisis of which the
country was due to take the full impact next year,
if not sooner. • )
The speech was a personal triumph for the
Prime Minister both as a negotiator and as an
expositor. And the measures which he fore-
shadowed were generally approved in all Aus-
tralian circles, save those which would disapprove
anything the Government did, even if it announced
a weekly distribution of bags of sovereigns through
the unions. About the only criticism that could
have been levelled at his plans was that 'they
perhaps could have gone further without imposing
undue strain. But the Government’s policy is
obviously the right one in a free-enterprise
economy; it wishes to keep its compulsions at a
minimum and apply its brakes slowly and as gently
as possible, taking drastic measures only if they
become imperatiye.
The unprecedented determination of the Gov-
ernment to share in the sacrifices to be made, to
cut Government expenditure by postponement of
capital-works and reduce Government imports by
about a third helped to secure general acceptance
of the measures proposed, especially since they were
also accompanied by agreement arrived at by the
Cabinet and Government parties to defer considera-
tion of Parliamentary rises until after 4he end of
the financial year. This may mean , permanent self-
sacrifice for some members who may not be in
Parliament next July.
The basic theme of Mr. Menzies’s speech was
that, while there was unexampled prosperity in the
country and an unprecedentedly high level of
employment, the situation was accompanied by
labor-shortages, steadily-rising wage-scales and
costs stemming from margins and other factors, a
substantial deficit in the current external-trading
account, a dangerous swelling of imports and a
whittling away of overseas reserves to a point at
which their disappearance within measurable time
seemed certain if no checks were applied. He
pointed to the boom in consumer-spending and
private investment accompanied by overexpansion
of bank-credit, of hire-purchase borrowing at high
rates and riotous lending to buyers of non-reproduc-
tive consumer-goods. In that respect he remarked
that sales of motor-cars, running at a rate of 250,000
per annum, were 64 per cent, greater than two years
ago and that it had been said that in Australia the
births of motor-cars now exceeded the births of
children. Among some other commodities, while
production has shown substantial increases, demand
has shown greater ones.
Summed up, indeed, he was able to set out
four major factors in the present situation which
every authority agrees to exist—a high level of
home-market purchasing-power which has built up
the level of demand for goods, buildings, equipment
and services to an all-time peak; a consequent
inability to supply the demand locally, which has
created an import-level calling for a drain greater
than the return from export-earnings, resulting in
a heavy deficit in external trading accounts; an
increasing difficulty in expanding export-earnings,
due to rising wages and costs, partly the outcome
of competition due to labor-shortages; lastly, the
downward drift of overseas prices, accompanied
by rises in the cost of vital imports and in overseas
freight-rates which affect both exports and imports.
Apart from this, Australian primary exports are
facing a new era of competition, in which they
must face the rivalry of production overseas, subsi-
dised and/or covered by bilateral trade-deals. He
said nothing of the effects of the continued large
inward flow of migrants.
The figures fully support the Prime Minister’s
summary of the position. With freight included,
imports in 1954-55 cost £173,000,000 more than
the value of exports, without taking into account
net payments abroad for dividends, interest and such
charges which brought the gross trading deficit for
the year to £256,000,000. Thitf, however, was
reduced by loan and capital transactions to an
external deficiency for 1954-55 of £142,000,000
and our international-exchange reserves from
£570,000,000 to £428,000,000. And all this with a
falling export-return which withered by £49,000,000
while the value of imports expanded by
£184,000,000. Any man can understand where this
must lead to if he applies household economics
to the problem. A country, like an individual,
cannot remain solvent long if it continues to spend
more while earning less and dipping heavily into
the savings bank fo make up the difference.
The measures which the Government proposes
are not as drastic as they might have been; indeed,
those who will feel them most are British traders,
who are going through a time of stress equal to or
greater in its dangers than our own. Imports are
to be cut by £80,000,000, assembled motor-vehicles
taking a 25 per cent, cut and unassembled 12£ per
cent. Less essential general categories, largely
represented by goods which could be done without
or made in Australia, will suffer import reduc-
tions of from 12£ per cent, to 25 per cent., which
will not affect some items of comfort, such as
tobacco.
These restrictions will not, of course, achieve
what the Government would like to see achieved—
the reduction of imports for 1955-56 to the reason-
ably safe level of about £640,000,000; the new regu-
lations cannot, under normal licensing practice,
affect more than a quarter of the year’s overseas
buying, and the overseas balance must inevitably
fall further by June 30 next, especially in view of
the decline in wool and other prices.
Indeed the country can thank its lucky stars
for the fact that it has had an increase in export
volume of 15 to 20 per cent, over the past three
years. Otherwise it would be facing a much worse
position, one which might have become disastrous
if there had been a short wool season this year
instead of a bumper one.
We are not out of the wood yet by a long
chalk. The Government’s scheme is merely a
brake, a palliative, a first helping of restraint on
the economy which it is so far successfully able to
impose with the full backing of every interest which
matters, including the trading banks and the time-
payment companies, which have agreed to impose
voluntary limits on their transactions.
The Government proposes to work on the con-
structive side by introducing an export-credit
scheme—“if a sound basis for one can be found” —•
to build up overseas sales and prevent the overseas
reserves from falling to the “disaster” line, which
the Treasury believes to be £300,000,000 —they are
only £370,000,000 now and have dwindled rapidly
in the past quarter.
The problem is not easy, or merely a local
one. It affects the whole world, and we are
dependent, subject to what our own energy and
behavior do to assist, on the state and level of
world-markets and world-competition.
Countries which were devastated by war and
whose needs and those of large occupation-forces
were a definitive influence in-raising prices of Aus-
tralian primary-products to the skies are now
coming back to normal. They are producing a
great deal of their own requirements in food and
raw materials generally and becoming formidable
competitors in an export-market for manufactures
and 1 preserved goods. In these markets we are
already at a disastrous disadvantage by reason of
the 40-hour week and a strike level in which the
loss per 1000 employed stands at an average of
941 days lost per year over the period 1947-54
against an average loss of 151 in the United King-
dom for the same period, and 103 in West Germany
over the past five years.
Australia is, moreover, saddled with a level of
costs imposed by the award systems which, while
relative to the boom export year of 1951-52, are
already bringing export income in the crucial wool-
trade very close to cost of production. Wool.-
growers, in fact, claim that in some districts prices
this season are falling below cost of production.
Another disadvantage is in our long-haul sea- and
land-freight rates.
Australia is saddled with a double system of
government, the State sector of which is largely
marked by complete irresponsibility, due to the fact
that States are not answerable to the people for
taxation-levels and practise wild extravagance and
wastefulness in budgeting.
This is illustrated by N.S.W. Premier Cahill’s
Budget, under which, as Mr. Morton, the new
Leader of the Opposition, pointed out on the day
on which Mr. Menzies spoke, it is proposed to spend
a record total of £117,600,000 —“an average of
more than two pounds a week for every New
South Wales taxpayer.” Some State Premiers,
opposed politically to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, which it is their policy to milk to the limit,
cannot refute Mr. Morton’s accusation that they
“deliberately go into the red” in order to “pitch a
more pitiful tale” at Premiers’ conferences.
It is essential that the States and all sections of
the community should play their part in the difficult
time to come. It will be a case of “all hands to the
purse-strings” in the years immediately ahead.
Change of Plan in the North
QUEENSLAND’S biggest developmental project,
the Burdekin Valley scheme, which was to have
brought irrigation to a vast area of good land,
besides supplying hydroelectric power to step-up
the capacity of the North Queensland system, is to
be shelved indefinitely. Instead, priority will be
given to its smaller but still substantial rival, the
Mareeba-Dimbulah irrigation-scheme. The reason
for the change in plans is the Gair Government’s
realisation that at the rate money and materials
are forthcoming neither project is likely to be com-
pleted for decades' to come; the obvious course is
to finish the smaller job first. When the Burdekin
scheme was planned its estimated cost was £2O
million. Four years ago the figures had swollen to
£7O million. What the estimate is now is anybody’s
guess, but it is obviously high enough to appal
Mr. Gair or he would not be putting Queensland’s
darling project into cold-storage only a few months
before a general election.
Queensland has had past experiences of irriga-
tion-schemes begun in high hopes and with
prophecies of rich rewards in fertility and produc-
tion which were later abandoned or greatly reduced
in scope. Back in 1923 when E. G. Theodore was
Premier, the Dawson Valley Irrigation Scheme was
hatched to the accompaniment of fanfares of
optimism and enthusiasm. A dam at Nathan Gorge
and a series of weirs, channels and drains were to
supply water to 100,000 acres of land.
Today the area under irrigation along the
D&wson carries lucerne and other fodder-crops,
cotton, grain, citrus and vegetables—all flourishing
enough as far as they go—but the total area irri-
gated is only 2000 acres, one-fiftieth of that
originally planned. The Nathan dam was never
built; a “modified” plan adopted in 1928 substi-
tuted small weirs with the present limited capacity.
The Mareeba-Dimbulah scheme, on which
the energies of Queensland’s construction-force are
now to be concentrated, is a proposition of some
magnitude on the Atherton Tableland; its object
is to harness the Walsh and Barron Rivers to
irrigate about 100,000 acres of land.
The reports of the Queensland Bureau of
Investigation show that tobacco-growing was begun
in the Mareeba-Dimbulah area in 1929 and
expanded fairly rapidly, reaching a peak in 1936.
Then came decline, greatest in those parts where
crops had been grown under natural-rainfall
conditions; where irrigation-schemes had been
established a satisfactory yield continued to be
maintained. In 1946 the bureau recommended a
complete investigation of the area’s irrigation
potentialities with a view to stopping the drift and
building up the productive capacity of the district.
As a result of this several small weirs were built
and a major project planned for irrigating a con-
siderable area by building two storages —one at
Springmount .on the Walsh River and one at
Tinaroo on the Barron River.
The investigation showed that much of the
land, while suitable for growing high-grade
tobacco, lost its fertility under continuous cultiva-
tion; also that if rain fell during the later growing-
period of the tobacco some areas showed a falling-
off in quality of leaf produced. Irrigation, it was
considered, would permit a proper rotation of
crops—maize, peanuts and cotton had shown a
liking for the district —and would also mean that
the tobacco crop could be harvested before the hot,
wet season arrived. Dairying, pig-raising and cattle-
fattening were other suggested possibilities. The
bureau estimated that the project would serve
50,000 acres of first-class and 60,000 acres of second-
class land.
In announcing the decision to shelve Opera-
tion Burdekin until the Tableland scheme was
completed, Mr. Gair attempted to place the blame
on the Federal Government —the old familiar cry,
uttered year after year by N.S.W. Premier Cahill,
“We’ve been starved.” This is no real explana-
tion of the situation. Queensland, like New South
Wales and, for that matter, the whole Common-
wealth, has bitten off more than it can chew. It is
not a question of loan-money; it is a matter of men,
materials and resources. This is tacitly admitted in
Mr. Gair’s amended plan; even with the whole of
its developmental energies switched to the Table-
land scheme it is not expected that that project
will be completed before 1969. No one dares guess
what the date would have been if both projects had
been persevered with at the present rate of progress.
At the same time, Queensland has a strong
case for Federal assistance in the development of
its northern areas. Mr. Gair has several times
raised this question at Premiers’ conferences and
the representatives of some of the southern States
have admitted the justice of his plea that closer
settlement in North Queensland has a defence-value
to the whole of Australia. With the Federal Gov-
ernment cutting its own works-programme and, in
any case, deeply committed on the Snowy River
Scheme for some time to come, Mr. Gair cannot
expect much help in the near future, but he will no
doubt continue to press Queensland’s claims that
northern development is a national problem, not
merely a State one.


“WHAT SHE WANTS IS A BIT MORE AIR!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
"No Devaluation"
Prime Minister Menzies, in his address
to the House of Representatives on the
changing economic position of Australia,
said: “On behalf of the Government I
state quite categorically that we are
determined to have no depreciation of the
currency.”
In other words, it is the Government’s
intention to maintain the exchange-rate
with sterling at £A125.
Much is implied by the P.M.’s state-
ment. Because of the precarious posi-
tion of some Australian export industries,
and because of the growing difficulties of
others, “determination” not to devalue
the Australian pound implies that the
Government is equally determined to
take firm measures to control cost-rises.
Without the second “determination” the
first could become futile.
Already because of cur high costs-
structure and our appetite for imports,
the Australian pound cannot hold its
own with the dollar in the open market
at the pegged rate. For production-costs
to inflate further, with the exchange-rate
left pegged at its present position, would
impose additional burdens on those very
industries the help of which is needed
urgently to increase our exports and raise
the level of our overseas funds.
Not that devaluation of the currency
really solves any problem. It merely
gives temporary relief from a high
internal costs-level. And unless effectual
measures are taken to reduce costs, in
the end the second position is usually
worse than the first.
Mr. Menzies said that Australia’s inter-
national reserves now stood at about
£370 million. It would not inevitably
be disastrous if they were somewhat
below £300 million by the end of next
financial year. But, he added, it would
be disastrous to reach that point, with
nothing done to check the fall in the
reserves.
Immediate proposal is to cut imports
by £80 million a year. Restrictions
which have the object of achieving this
are already being put into effect. But
the long-term objective of the Govern-
ment and of all responsible Australians
must be increased productivity of the
average wage-earner and salary-earner.
It is six or seven years since a “Labor”
Prime Minister, J. B. Chifley, told the
Australian community: “The honey-
moon is over.” But the spree has gone
on at an even greater rate the last year
or two. Now, with the whole face of the
economic world changing (to Australia’s
discomfiture), the sooner everyone
realises the true facts of the situation the
better. And these facts can be summed-
up thus: This is ope tight spot we shall
really have to work our way out of.
Defence Insurance
“LAbor” followed its complaint early in
the" economic debate that defence esti-
mates could be safely cut by £40 million
with another complaint a d&y or so after-
wards that the Government had failed to
spend its estimates to the full.
It is true, as the newspapers proclaimed
in large headlines, that the Army costs
£7 per head per annum; but it is also
true, as Mr. Francis said, that it is “a
cheap security-rate.” Nobody pointed
out that in return for our defence-vote of
£200 million a year we have the effective
cadres of a full defence force save, per-
haps, in civil-defence, which has come in
for some strong and justifiable criticism
from Mr. Wentworth and Air-Vice-
Marshal Bostock.
The R.A.N. now has two aircraft-
carriers—one in service, the other, the
most modern in the British Common-
wealth, -nearing completion, together with
a training-ship, four destroyers, seven
frigates, six ocean-going minesweepers
and M.T.Bs. and other auxiliary craft—
apart from a considerable reserve fleet.
Its aircraft are supplemented by a strong
body of young and modernly-trained
personnel. Its present machines are in
process of being replaced by Venoms
and other modern deck-landing craft.
Army strength is overall 183,889,
including 39,000 on reserve and 31,000
cadets. Regulars total 22,927. This is
peak peace-time strength. The Army has
over 100 Centurion tanks of the type
which have prpved themselves of defini-
tive use in Korea in the roughest country,
plus 130 other armored vehicles. It has
acquired 2700 mechanical - transport
vehicles since 1950, and orders have been
placed for over £20-million-worth of
high-priority equipment. The R.A.A.F.
is in process of being equipped with
Canberra jets and Avon Sabre fighters.
Meteors and Neptune bombers are im-
ported, but others are being made in
Australia —a considerable achievement.
The permanent forces in all arms now
number about 52,000. But even on these
figures and facing the fact that about 23
per cent, of the expenditure of the past
five years has had to go into equipment,
Australia spends only 4.8 per cent, of
the national income on defence, against
9.5 per cent, in Canada and 9.9 per cent,
in the United Kingdom, both of which
are powerfully and immediately inter-
locked in defence with the United States,
which spends 13.5 per cent.
No other country with a white popu-
lation is so near a potential war area as
Australia, now that Communism is drift-
ing southwards along the road from
China. No other country owns a major
political party which is prepared to advo-
cate leaving defence to chance and
depend on the goodwill of a huge nation
which, in its secret dispatches to its spy-
centre in Canberra, used to describe Aus-
tralia as “the enemy” and which is spend-
ing about 21 per cent, of its national
Budget on military preparations and
maintenance.
"Labor" and Unity
At a Labor Day dinner in Sydney Dr.
Evatt and Mr. Cahill both urged the
need for unity in the ranks of the party
in the coming Federal and State election
campaigns. In “Labor’s” dictionary
unity seems to be a word which means
whatever the user wants it to mean. The
unity conference held in Sydney last June
showed about as much unity as an
orchestra of untrained musicians playing
without a conductor and the preselection
ballots for Federal seats have in some
electorates been the occasion for verbal
fights more bitter than the actual elec-
tion campaigns will be. On Saturday
night the Doc. urged the trade-unions
and party-members to drop their
defeatism; as a united party they would
be assured of success at the next Federal
election. In similar strain Cahill called
ori the “Labor” party to approach the
campaigns as a united force: he felt that
it had every reason for optimism. , Lord
Mayor Hills weighed in with an appeal
to “Labor” men not merely to talk about
unity, but to practise it.
During the days preceding the dinner
the Senate preselection ballot was demon-
strating “Labor” unity in practice. The
votes were cast on September 24, and in
ordinary circumstances the results would
have been known by now. However, on
Friday the N. S. Wales executive ordered
a cessation of counting after receiving
enough objections and protests to elect a
candidate if they could have been turned
into votes. The main complaint was that
the Evatt group had issued a how-to-vote
card inscribed “Official Labor Senate
Ticket. How to vote for support of
Federal policy and leadership.” The first
three names on the card were Senator
Ashley, H. Jensen and W. Bodkin ; the
seventeenth and last was Senator Arm-
strong, who is an industrial-group sup-
porter. According to reports the ballot
had resulted in an easy win for the three
Evatt men. ;
Next blow for unity seems likely tQ
be an announcement by the executive
declaring the ballot void. This could
mean the Federal executive stepping in
to insist that the vote be upheld. A
further alternative suggested is a real
unity ticket with Ashley and Armstrong
in the first two positions and a com-
promise man in third-place. Such a
solution would put a very severe strain
on the unity of Messrs. Jensen and
Bodkin.
The Great Unknown
“D.E.”: A line of verse that has stuck
in the memory for half a century, though
writer and work are forgotten:
The world knows nothing of its greatest
men.
A paradox with a striking application
to the age of the second Elizabeth, as
well as that of the first. And anyone
who chooses to be interested can study
two mortifying examples in Australia.
We owe much of our present pros-
perity, as well as the broadening of our
industrial future, to the men who waged
successful war pn the rabbit and the
prickly-pear. For decades before these
men came along the rabbiter and the
poison-cart had been familiar features of
the pastoral landscape in all the States,
and it was estimated that the stock-
carrying capacity of the continent had
been reduced by the four-footed plague
at least 25 per cent. As for the pear, it
had, in Queensland alone, infested an
area “more than twice the size of Tas-
mania,” and was continuing to spread
at a dreadful rate.
Myxomatosis has overcome one
plague; cactoblastis the other. To
introduce them and get them adopted
on a sufficient scale required knowledge,
foresight and persuasive or driving force
far beyond the powers of any committee
of politicians.
To whom does the credit belong?
Have they received as much as a vote
of thanks from any of the seven PaTlia-
ments? Have portraits of them been
commissioned by any of the organisa-
tions so deeply in their debt? Has the
popular press given them as much pub-
licity as it gives to any apprentice-jockey
who has ridden his first winner? No.
Those “radio personalities” who lacerate
the defenceless atmosphere with offers of
prodigious prizes for correct answers
to questions, preceded by gifts of
Foozleum’s Face-grease (“It makes every
woman beautiful”), could successfully
defy their audiences to mention their
names.
In the Wilderness
The week of the announcement of
Government measures to guard against
financial crisis saw the Federal “Labor”
party at its lowest ebb in history. Torn
to shreds by its leader’s quarrel with the
anti-Communist sectipn, flicked on the
raw by the gibes of the Joshua-Keon
corner, sore at the failure of the Govern-
ment to proceed with plans for an
increase in Parliamentary salaries, the
Opposition made a wretched and Un-
dignified spectacle, demoralised both in
internal relationships and in argument.
Dr. Evatt followed the Prime Minister’s
statement with a scolding attack, strident
with simulated indignation, shot through
with inconsistency and as hard as most
of his recent utterances to reconcile with
official “Labor” policy.
He believes that import-cuts will do
nothing towards easing the position;
they will make it worse.
Dr. Evatt sees the situation’s; main
ingredient as “a serious unbalance within
the economy,” in which he says that there
has been an enormous flood of expendi-
ture on private investment, while at the
same time consumption-expenditure on
commodities necessary for the life of the
ordinary people has “declined sharply.”
He thinks it absurd to put the blame on
hire-purchase. What can the purchase of
250,000 motor-cars in a year, mainly on
time-payment, do?
This, he says, is Australia’s way of
saving to get “something in the way of
capital-equipment for the home.” Motor-
cars, radio-sets, wire-recorders, et al„
seem a remarkably unstable and insecure
way of saving." The mere possession of a
car involves a regular outgo of £2-£3 a
week, with no return for those people
who do not use their Vehicles for business
purposes. And they depreciate as quickly
as any £lOOO asset can. Time-payment
refrigerators, necessary as they may be,
do not represent reproductive or earning
investment. J
However, Dr. Evatt would be entitled
both to argue this way and still to be
adjudged at least reasonably sane if he
did not try to elaborate. He says that
threatened economic crises are “always
coming to notice in the most curious cir-
cumstances whenever trade-unions are
demanding just wages and conditions, or
whenever pensioners make demands
which should be fulfilled. While margins
for skill in Australian industry remain
frozen, private companies are making
enormous profits.” #
Nobody except Dr. Evatt seems to have
noticed that margins for skill are
“frozen.” It can be conceded to the
Opposition-leader that, as he says, it
would be salutary" to be able to increase
the consumption of commodities “neces-
sary to life.” But the bar to this lies in
the very influences which he seeks to
encourage. The greatest, the determin-
ing cost-ingredient in the prices of those
commodities which have risen so high
as to restrict the market, is wages. But
Dr. Evatt wishes to push up wages hard
and high, shorten hours and at the same
time to make the wheels turn faster and
more cheaply.
After condemning import-licensing as
an expedient, he generously concedes that
it will have to be accepted, but says
severely that it should be applied only to
luxuries. Which luxuries he does not
indicate. And he agrees that Govern-
ment expenditure should be cut. On this
point he is quite clear about what
expenditure. Defence, of course —it
could “easily be cut by £4O million.”
And it certainly would be if he and Mr.
Ward were in office.
Defining Traitors
“In the ACT”: No move has yet been
made in Canberra to introduce amend-
ments of the law shown to be neces-
sary by the Petrov report. Called on to
state if information had been com-
municated “unlawfully,” the commis-
sioners turned to the Crimes Act and
found that espionage was not an
offence known to the law. They dis-
covered that there were references 11
information “likely to be directly
indirectly useful to an enemy,” but
naturally wondered how a court could
decide which foreign Powers were
potential enemies and which were not.
They agreed that the true interpretation
of Section 78 of the Act was neither
settled nor certain, and concluded that
prosecution of persons whose actions
had been considered would not be
warranted. There, for the time being, the
matter rests, but it was indicated last
week that some further moves might be
possible after the Reps, had debated the
Petrov report, probably this week.
The position is that the Attorney-
General’s department is having a look
at the legal complexities involved, and
is not likely to come up with suggestions
for some time. Definitions of treason and
espionage which will be both acceptable
and watertight in peace-time have given
headaches to lawyers in other places as
well as Australia, and it will doubtless
be better to have well-considered amend-
ments slightly delayed than unsatisfac-
tory ones hurriedly framed and rushed
through. Yet something must be done,
and if predictions of the course
of the debate are fulfilled there will be
even more compelling reasons for early
and effective legislation. The Govern-
ment may also have to consider soon a
move by the Soviet Tor the restoration
of diplomatic relations, and it will prob-
ably feel safer in conducting such dis-
cussions if certain loopholes disclosed be-
fore the commission have been either
closed or turned into traps for those
who attempt to employ them.
In the meantime, the Evatt-Ward
“conspiracy” party, although highly
unpopular with many sp-called Evatt
supporters, is confidently expected to
launch ati attack on the commission, and
has received a certain amount of news-
paper support. One probable aspect of
the debate is causing the Government
concern. It is felt that the attacks under
cover of privilege upon the integrity and
ability of the Security Service are not
merely baseless and unjustified, but are
a cowardly way of hitting people who
are unable, because of their position, to
defend themselves publicly. The debate
will give an opportunity for expression
of Government resentment on this
score.
Unstable Indo-Chlna
With the Australian force in Malaya
being rapidly built up to full strength,
resistance from “Labor” and the Com-
munists—taking exactly the same line —
will now be intensified, since the newly-
elected Government of Malaya has
accepted a Communist/ offer to hold
“peace talks.”
The talks will have to be more fruitful
than the amnesty proposals if they are to
be worth anything—so far that hand-
some scheme of forgiveness has produced
only 14 surrenders of terrorists in over a
fortnight. Moreover, any negotiations
•are likely to be prolonged in the usual
fashion of Far Eastern Communism. It
is three years since a truce was arranged
on the Korean front, yet last week when
the Chinese graciously agreed to with-
draw six divisions from the region of
the 38th parallel they were still believed
to have- 450,000 troops thereabouts
inspection terms agreed to have from the
first proved not worth the paper they
were written on.
Even if Dr. Evatt and Mr. Sharkey
had their way and succeeded in forcing
the withdrawal of Australians from
Malaya some troops would have to
remain ip. the region as a first line of
defence for this country and as a bar
to infiltration southwards. If Malaya
were left to itself in its present state of
weakness it would be on the way to
Communism in a fortnight. The whole
Communist effort in East Asia represents
a shaping-up for moves next year. After
the Geneva settlement the Communists
had hoped to leave southern Indo-
china, on the withdrawal of Vietminh,
sufficiently Red-anted to,assure subversion
before the elections scheduled for 1956.
It did not matter whether this hope was
realised, however, as the Communist
control extended over so much of Viet-
nam and its population that Ho Chi-minh
o Continued on next page)


POLITICAL POINTS
The preselection ballot for “Labor
Senate candidates in New South Wales
seems to have been like the “Findaword”
competitions. Nobody won it.
• •
Premier Cahill’s assurance that he and
his Parliamentary followers do not
employ ghost-writers to compose their
speeches removes an unwarranted
suspicion from the shoulders of Sydney
journalists.
• •
Eddie Ward, Clyde Cameron and
others who seize on every uninformed
report suggesting Malayan opposition to
the arrival of Australian troops now have
their answer from the Chief Minister of
the Malayan Government, Tengku Abdul
Rahman, who on Saturday told a Singa-
pore meeting of the United Malay
National Organisation that his Govern-
ment was not opposed to the stationing
of Australian troops in the country,
there was no reason why they should
not come and their purpose was “to
help Malaya hiaintain peace.”
• •
Higher pay for Canberra’s politicians
is out, at least until next June, which
means after the next election. Which
also means that many “Labor” men now
holding seats will never get a rise at all.
• •
Behavior of the Opposition during the
Menzies statement provided an interest-
ing study. Evatt, with a copy of the
statement and of Fadden’s Budget
speech, was in a last-minute flurry of
notes and marking, determined to speak
at length and at once. Beside him, that
erstwhile financial expert, Arthur
Cal well, was also marking a copy of the
Prime Minister’s speech, but didn’t seem
really of much help to his leader. Front-
bencher Allan Fraser ostentatiously read
a book throughout Menzies’s harangue.
• •
N. S. Wales Health Minister O’Sullivan
is urging the Cahill Government to study
single-chamber septic-tanks. Does this
foreshadow a move to implement
“Labor” policy and' abolish the Upper
Chamber?
• •
N. S. Wales Libs, are to review the
decision taken in August to oppose a
move for increased Parliamentary
salaries. Let ’em discuss the decision
by all means, but if they reverse it they
may as well kiss good-bye any chance
they have of winning the next election.
Federal Government parties are deferring
their hopes of a rise as an example to the
community. And the community
includes State Libs.
m m.
Touchiness of the New York stock-
market was illustrated when the first news
of President Eisenhower’s illness was
followed on Wall-street by the biggest
selling boom for over 20 years and the
sharpest fall in share-values since the
1929 crash. Economist Roger Babson,
who is credited with having forecast that
crash, said of last week’s panic:
The market had got very heavy and it
only needed something like this to knock
it down.
He said that the downward trend might
continue for weeks, but that reassuring
news about the President and his future
plans “would have a salutary effect.”
Eisenhower is reported to be “progressing
favorably,” though the chances of his
seeking re-election are now considered
remote. And share-prices have been
steadily recovering.
• «
Frank Browne has formed a new
political party. So far it consists of
Browne and a name —the Australia
party.
• •
Informative figures of present and
prospective steel-output were supplied
last week by National Development
Minister Spooner, who added that the
companies’ plans for expansion after 1956
would probably enable the expected
increase in demand to be met, but that
they could not be assessed until details
were known. Consumption was expected
to be 2,100,000 tons this year, and it
might reach 2,500,000 tons by 1960.
Local production of steel products this
year was expected to be 1,700,000 tons,
and when expansion works were com-
pleted next year the steel-production
capacity of Australia would be about
2,100,000 tons a year.
• •
R. G. Casey was booed by the crowd
when he stepped off the plane at London
airport. No, not a pro-Communist or
anti-Australian demonstration. Just a
gaggle of teenagers who’d been expect-
ing Johnny Ray.
• •
Start questioning a “Labor” politician
before a royal commission and it won’t
be long before racing-bets are mentioned.
At the Brisbane inquiry into allegations
of attempted bribery in connection with
Redcliffe sewerage contracts, J. H. Mann,
Speaker of the Queensland Assembly,
was asked about £5OO he had borrowed
from a Mrs. Cohen and for which he
had voluntarily agreed to repay £6OO/
He told the commission that he thought
he “might be able to pay the whole lot
back at once if he had a good day at the
races.”
• •
Asian and African nations, backed up
by Russia and satellites, forced through
NEW LOOK
into the Arctic Sea to change the whole
geography of the north.
• •
“Mugga Way”: My first meeting with
“Ike,” then the selected Republican
candidate for the Presidency, was in
Denver, the city in which illness has now
struck him. I watched for an hour or
so as all sorts of people came into his
office in the Brown Palace hotel to greet
him, and was struck inevitably by his
famous charm of manner. His illness
now leaves the Republicans in a serious
dilemma for next year’s campaign. If
Eisenhower doesn’t stand —and this
seems likely—then it is doubtful if Nixon
would command sufficient support to
get either the selection as candidate, or
election if nominated. • At the same time
the Democrats are having their own
difficulties, despite their general optim-
ism. It is no longer a foregone conclu-
sion that they will select again their
brilliant candidate of 1952, Adlai Steven-
son, who did not win, but might well
have done so against any opponent but
Eisenhower. Stevenson’s selection is
being strongly challenged by Averell
Harriman, who failed to get selection in
Chicago last time—although ’as an
observer at the Democrats’ convention I
thought the girls carrying Harriman’s
banners round the streets were prettier
than those of any other aspirant.
• •
Claiming that one of their members
had been unfairly demoted two dozen
F.E.D.F.A. men at Newcastle steelworks
went on strike,' throwing 3500 members
of other unions out of work. Justice
For the first time over-the-counter
business of the Queensland Tourist
Bureau topped the million in the year
ended June 30. Actual figure, £1,009,774.
• •
“Debit”: Vic. Chamber of Manufac-
turers hit the nail on the head when it
said that astronomical figures quoted in
industrial balance-sheets and national
Budgets gave the average person only a
hazy idea of the financial calculations.
It’s time the Treasurer not only set-out
the total taxation per head, but also gave
some clearer explanation of where each
£1 of tax goes.
• •
India will probably switch to a decimal
coinage towards the end of next year—
October 2, Gandhi’s birthday, is sug-
gested as a suitable date for the change.
The value of the rupee will be un-
changed, but it will be divided into 100
cents instead of 16 annas or 192 pies.
The new system will be handier, but the
passing of the pies and annas will be
regretted by postage-stamp collectors and
crossword-puzzle fans. **
• •
Gold is still in the convertibility picture,
but the gold assets of non-dollar countries
are well below requirements for converti-
bility. Fadden told the International
Monetary Fund meeting that the con-
tinued low price for gold had forced the
non-dollar world to make yet another
onerous adjustment before the pre-war
pattern of currency convertibility could
be restored. He added, however, that
timing of an increase in the price would
need most careful consideration. When
enough progress towards convertibility
had been achieved on other fronts, then
enlargement of reserves and reinforcement of
earning-power by an increase in the price of
gold may well be the final stroke that will
crown our efforts with success.
• •
Words, words, words. In the second
quarter of this year the U.K. post-office
cable- and wireless-services handled
97,458,477 words, of which nearly 43
million were exchanged with Common-
wealth countries. Of these latter, nearly
two million were in social telegrams, with
greetings, family - news and non-
commercial personal affairs.
• •
If savings-bank deposits are a guide
South Australians are the thriftiest people
in Australia. Their, State savings-bank
holds more than £lOO million in savings-
accounts, top figure per head of popula-
tion in the Commonwealth. S.A. is the
only State which does not run a lottery.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
TVTEVER thought I’d see a mob
surging about the counters fighting
for service as the minute - hand
approached 10-o’clock closing-time. Beer
had flowed freely after 10-o’clock over
these same counters a few months earlier
--when the faithful white-collar em-
ployees of three Sydney dailies, who had
helped dispatch the composite strike-
emergency paper, had celebrated the end
of the ordeal by pouring beer through
those same white collars. But the mob
this time was not interested in beer, nor
was it in a pub. The counters stood on
each side of the foyer of a newspaper-
office, and 10-o’clock (a.m.) was the dead-
line for entries in a crossword compe-
tition. With their eyes on the clock and
the prize-money, hundreds hustled to
buy copies of the Sunday edition, then
four days old.' The competition-page was
hurriedly extracted and the remaining
mass of ads. and editorial dumped on
the floor. Young arid old, rich and
would-be rich squatted among the litter
filling-in their entries. Never had cross-
word-addicts looked crosser or more
uncomfortable. Attendants stood about
holding open large mail-bags for receipt
of the culmination of much family brain-
fag. Others directed the human flow
out, wherever daylight showed dimly
through the crowded doors. Flash-bulbs
exploded. The battle for circulation was
on, while the advertisements, whose
authors are impressed by high-circula-
tion figures, were churned back to pulp
underfoot. Charity will benefit hand-
somely, but I am sorry for the rest of
the hopeful competitors; I werit there
to lodge my wife’s entry, and she had
already spent the prize-money.—“Will-
par.”
❖ *
“Croid”: The other driver dashed out
of a side-street without looking and
grazed our mudguard. Our driver was
furious and alighted to take all particu-
lars from the erring one. “Give me some
paper, someone,” he said sharply. One
of our passengers promptly handed over
a roll of toilet-paper which he had
unearthed from the glove-box. Laughter
from both cars calmed everyone down
and none of the expected hard words
were said. Truly a case of a soft tissue
turning away wrath.
“Fitz”: For several weeks my three
grandchildren had demanded that I
make them each a kite; they have just
arrived from England, where apparently
such contraptions are all the rage. Since
I am the worst handyman in Australia
I hurried to the toy-department of a
large Sydney store. A superior salesman
, viewed me as if I were a left-over from a
past age. “Kites! Paper kites, did you
say, sir? You seem to forget, sir. This
is the age of space-ships.”
* ♦+«■
“Sixtoes”: The eminent overseas
town-planner, invited to meet the local
(N.Z.) architects, was buttonholed by the
mayor. “Well, sir,” asked his Worship,
giving the pressmen a lead, “apd what
do you think of our lay-out?” The
visitor was full of charm. “My first
impression from the air was that some
one had scattered a packet of mixed
house-seed among the rubbish on the hills
and some of it had germinated.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Becks”: Employees of newspapers
are customarily debarred from entering
competitions run by their own papers,
and this rule was applied to the first and
second “Findaword” competitions
organised by the Sydney “Sun-Herald.”
When the third competition was
announced the rules were altered to
bar also “employees of other daily
and/or weekly newspapers or maga-
zines, and members of employees’
families.” The blanket-ban thus cast over
everyone remotely connected with the
press, from the managing-director of
“Truth” to the great-grandmother of the
boy who sweeps out the office of the
Booligal “Banner,” will relieve journalists
of the responsibility of having to decide
for their wives whether cats, rats, mats,
bats, gats or oats are most likely to be
“found lying about the house,” but that
would scarcely be the motive inspiring
the change. The explanation most
generally accepted in Sydney is that
among the entries for “Findaword N 0.2”
Granny found a couple of hundred pur-
porting to be filled in by the editor of the
“Sunday Telegraph,” sponsor and be-
getter of the rival “Teleword” competi-
tion.
❖ ❖ *l*
“Jock”: N.S.W.G.R. are having high
jinks at celebrating their centenary,
but the sign writer has slipped over
the loco that hauled the first train from
Sydney to Parramatta: —“ The train
consisted of two first-class carriages (the
Governor-General travelling in the lead-
ing one), four second-class and five third-
class carriages.” There was no Gov.->
General until 1901.
❖ ❖ ♦+♦
“Arev”: The Queensland country
town (“Quo Vadis,” B. 24/8/’55) isn’t
the only place where a free picture-show
may be enjoyed from the hotel balcony.
Hotel Alice Springs overlooks the open-
air cinema patronised by the aborigines.
On Saturday nights, the blacks come in
on foot, by utility truck and taxi (it is
said that a taxi cannot be hired in Alice
on Saturday night—the blacks have them
all), to the pictures. There are two
cinemas at Alice Springs: the one oppo-
site Hotel Alice Springs is that of the
blacks. Favorite pictures are the cowboy
ones, with plenty of riding and shooting,
and how the abos. love them! The first
thing an abo. looks for when he comes
into the town is the placard advertising
the Saturday-night show. If the picture is
a Wild West film there is sure to be a
muster of bucks, lubras, piccaninnies and
dogs. Only rain can spoil a good night’s
entertainment at the open-air show—
and the hotel balcony.
++♦ ♦♦♦
“Opsimath”: In Melbourne shops you
can buy a sequined rhinestone-studded
cocktail-coat for evening wear —for your
dog. He can be fitted with suede bootees
to protect his little paws when he takes
you for a walk. And for a lovely surprise
on his birthday, a tartan bow-tie. The
logical next step here is canine beauty-
salons and holidays in air-conditioned
dog-hotels with private swimming-pools,
as in the U.S. Why stop there? In the
plethora of ratbag revivalism, it is sur-
prising that de facto ddg-worship has
not established itself. The ancient
Egyptians worshipped the pooch —
notably the dog-god Anubis, who had the
useful function of conducting souls to
the happy land. Now that the Welfare
State has been established on earth all
that is left for our dog-gods to do is to
run round in circles.
+t+ *i* <*
“Pip Tok”: Unconscious contempt of
court, was committed during a long and
somewhat-involved judgment of the Wes-
tralian Supreme Court. His Honor found
himself unable to compete with what
sounded like the snores of a man doubled -
up in a chair at the back of the court.
Attempts to arouse the offender failed,
so he was carried outside, where the fresh
air quickly revived him. What seemed
to be snoring was really the stertorous
breathing of a man who had fainted.
❖ *** ♦♦♦
“J.S.J.”: “Bo’s” waxen lasses (B.
24/8/’55) came in for more than the
usual attention in a city department-store
window often used by the firm with
sound-effects and clock-work action. The
girls were displaying swim-suits under
strong, concealed lights. As a precaution
against the heat from the lights building-
up, the window-dresser always left the
door ajar. Somehow, the door was
closed, the heat built-up, on came the
automatic sprinklers and crowds outside
were admiring the novelty of seeing the
frippery creations actually in the wet when
the fire-brigade came racing up.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Yakipan”: “The Teahouse of the
August Moon” (B. 31/8/’55) brings back
memories of a similar teahouse in Seoul,
Korea, when that city was known as
Keijo. This teahouse was just outside
the walls of the Secret Garden, the old
private garden of the Korean kings, on
the edge of a large lotus pond. It was
run by a Japanese retired army-officer
who was known to Europeans as
“Kaiser,” he having moustaches in the
fashion of Kaiser Wilhelm. To this
teahouse Europeans would be taken by
Japanese in August and September for
“moonviewing.” The paper walls would
be removed and one would sit cross-
legged on the floor, gazing up at the
huge golden moon and listening to the
bullfrogs croaking in the lotus pond.
Possibly not very exciting, but incredibly
beautiful.
♦♦♦ * ❖
“•Sack”: My wife not only assures me
that the sentence “a sense df false
security” makes sense and good English
(B. 21/9/’55), but that thousands of
women would agree. Thousands of
women, it seems, feeling that Nature has
given them lighf weight in certain plural
attributes, go elsewhere, and a snug-
fitting article of apparel over the built-up
areas gives just exactly that peace-of-mind
feeling expressed in the phrase.
* ❖ »*♦
“Angasta”: Noticing that a number of
children on the way to the school in one
of our new suburbs were wearing a cord
round their necks, I mentioned to one
of the schoolies that the immigrant
mothers must still believe in warding off
the evil of colds with the old camphor-
bag. “Camphor-bag nothing,” he
snorted, “they’re all wearing the home
latch-key. If you have to Send a kid
home for sickness the first thing you do
is to check-up on which one in the family
is wearing the key. Ten to one the
mother will be working.”
* ❖
“Sam”: Figures for the cost of main-
tenance of a child at that old-established
institution the Ashfield Infants Home,
Sydney, show how the value of money
has declined in Australia within the past
century. In this year’s annual report it
was stated that in 1875 it cost ss. a week
to keep a child at the home. By 1878
the cost had gone up to 10s. a week.
Now it is £8 Bs. a week.
+*+ ♦s*
“Ex-Ped.”: The mother who took an
active interest in the school-work (“F.S.,’
B. 24/8/’55) reminds me of a Taswegian
parent whose small son regularly topped
the elementary-Latin class with 100 per
cent, in homework marks, but could only
average about 20 per cent, in class. He
did his homework first on his scribbling-
pad; then Mum corrected it while he
read a comic; and then he copied it
neatly into his exercise-book. This divi-
sion of labor petered-out after Mum
received a note congratulating her on her
being the best “extra-mural” student in
the class.
“Cripes, I'd like to be with ’em on that fishin' trip!”
ORGY
“Up at the Cross
There’s a curious clan
With an evil joss —
The goat-god, Pan!”
Is the horrified squeal
Of a paper sold
On the sex-appeal
Of the Calf of Gold.
“On the altar is seen
A woman unclad
As a beauty-queen
Or a corset-ad.,
And the witches resort
To an ugly mumble
Like a rape-report
Or a crossword-jumble.”
But could witches' rags
Cause envious rage
To social hags
Or fashion page ?
And what little blood
The rooster sheds
Where murders flood
In streamer-heads!
But primal doubt
Can still revive:
Word goes about:
“The Devil’s alive !”
Some fear that hell
May yet come true,
And they may well
Have reason to.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Maitri”: Early electric refrigerators
were noisy, and some friends who
acquired one had to keep the door
between kitchen and the rest of the house
shut so that they could hear each other
speak during waking hours and snatch a
bit of sleep at night. They’ve had several
new machines since then (the present
one’s as silent as a Sydney North Shore
suburb after 9 p.m.) but the door’s still
kept closed —because they’ve got into
the habit. Or take the tradition of the
opera “I Puritani” which Bellini is said
to have composed for the tenor Rubini.
It’s seldom performed nowadays, but
when it is, no doubt the tenor walks to
the back of the stage and peers through
the wings before he returns down-stage
to sing his main aria. If you ask why,
you’re told it’s a tradition —Rubini
always did it! Forty years ago a deter-
mined opera-fan hunted round till he
found an old boy well-nigh 100 who had
sung in the chorus when Rubini (then an
old man) had starred. The ancient
remembered all about it. “Rubini,” he
quavered, “had a terrible wet mouth, and
always before he sing his big number, he
walk upstage, go to the wings and spit ! ”
*X* ❖
“Kelvin”: That Education Week side-
light (B. 14/9/’55) reminds me of a ten-
year-old who, obeying a teacher’s
direction to write an essay on “A Satur-
day at Home,” turned in such a lurid
account of parental pugilism, alcoholism
and debauchery that the dominie
arranged a household-visit by the depart-
ment’s social worker. The social worker
found a suburban cottage which was a
model of efficiency, managed by a
paragon among mothers, mystified by his
visit. Investigation returned to the
essayist, who explained that he had hoped
his essay would be read aloud and thus
would rehabilitate him in the eyes of
class-mates inclined to regard him as a
cissie because his father did not frequent
pubs, trots or football, or bash his wife
or engage in any of the diversions
purportedly favored by their own sires.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Yakipan”: Melbourne’s most
glamorous office has been opened by
Premier Cosgrove of Tasmania —the
Collins-street office of the Tasmanian
Government tourist and immigration
department. Not a brand-new office but
the old one remodelled. Walls in
daffodil - yellow, terracotta, different
shades of blue and green ; doors of blue,
white and vivid flame; ceilings of
pink and green. The general color-
scheme is even extended to a men’s door
in scarlet and a women’s door in bright
blue.
❖ ❖ *
“Derwent”: For the second time in 60
years the largest hotel in Hobart’s (Tas.)
city area, Hadley’s, is figuring as a
OVERHEARD in the street. One
mother to another, in an animated
discussion of their children. “I wanted
Shirl to stay at home till she was 21. But
no, she wouldn’t; so she’s sold her car
and off she’s gone.”—“E. & 0.E.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Hist”: Anyone with the foresight to
buy up stocks of the green 2s. stamp,
issued late in 1953 to commemorate the
centenary of Tasmanian' settlement, could
now at least double his money. Despite
the fact that the printing of this stamp
ran to some 2,312,000 copies, it is already
in short supply among collectors. A
London dealer prices it at 6s. mint and
ss. used —sterling. The shortage of used
copies may be due to heavy usage on
Christmas parcels, for many people who
salvage stamps from envelopes shoot the
brown-paper from a parcel into the
w.p.b. without further thought.
* ❖
‘By George!”: The tedious job of,
wrapper - scrapping (looking through
exchange newspapers for leads) has its
lighter moments. My latest Oscar goes
to the Melbourne “Age” for a birth-
notice that ended with this mysterious
message: (Geo gratia).” Speaking
from memory, the husband’s name was
William.
*x* *x* ❖
‘Lorna Doone”: I was involved in the
questioning of a suspected shoplifter (B.
31/8/’55). An assistant was sure a
woman had pinched a small georgette
hanky and that, aware that she had been
seen, had quickly bought another,
identical. When questioned, the suspect
was able to produce a receipt. The
assistant was sure that there was
only one receipt for two hankies.
Waiting for the police, the woman
complained of nausea. Before I
knew it the three of us were in the
lavatory. Apparently it’s an old trick
when caught with the goods to “let the
common sewer take it from distinction.”
But no sign of the hanky, and I began
to think the assistant might have bitten off
more than she could chew. I said to
the harried one, “Have you swallowed
it?” She straightened her back and,
looking as scornful as an edentulous
woman can look, barked at me, “Wotinell
d’jer think I am? A b y giraffe?”
<s*
"Sebak”: Black magic, Sydney “Sun”
informs me, is regularly practised by
some arty-crafty- “witches” in King’s
Cross. Carrying out their weird rituals,
I read, the adherents burn incense before
an altar over which a nude woman has
draped herself; above her body a “live
rooster is then slain.” Magic! When
they kill a dead rooster, that’ll be magic.
“When I grow up, Dad, I'll be able to give you a hand with that job.”
lottery prize. In 1895 the Tasmanian
Government brought the late George
Adams to Tassie to raffle the assets of
the Van Diemen’s Land Bank, which
was up against the wall. One-hundred-
thousand tickets were sold by Adams,
main prizes being the bank buildings and
the hotel (then the Orient). Present
owner of Hadley’s, which is a four-story
building of almost 100 rooms and has
been valued at £250,000, is Arthur Drys-
dale, who also runs the big Taspanian
Lotteries, which were set up after Tatt.’s
moved to Victoria. In the lottery now
being conducted—one of the largest
known—Tasmanian Lotteries are offering
50,000 tickets at a fiver each ; first prize
will *be £140,000, but the winner will
have the chance of taking over the free-
hold of the hotel if he wishes. It is
expected to bring about £70,000 to State
“Welcome to R.A.A.F. detachment, Malaya, Flight-Lieutenant.”
revenue. A new barrel for £50,000
lotteries is being built at Hobart —a
change from ship-building, for which
the place was noted!
+> *X* ❖
“Zorok”: What does “Mac Hoots”
carry about with him that he has 66
things in his pockets (B. 31/8/’55)? I
went through mine and found eight—a
hanky, an old dog-eared tram-ticket, a
lottery-ticket (also valueless —it was 83
off a fiver), the bill for my water-rates
(up 100 per cent, on last year), my wallet
(empty), weekly train-ticket, a thrippenny-
bit and a penny.
“Watsonia”: Lyttelton (N.Z.), an old
hand at farewelling polar explorers, will
see Rear-Admiral Richard Byrd’s outfit on
its way to Antarctica at the end of the
year.* The seven ships of Task Force 43
engaged on expedition-Deepfreeze will
make Lyttelton final port -of - call.
They’ve some notable predecessors. On
December 21, 1901, Robert Falcon Scott,
then still a lieutenant R.N., sailed out to
the Ross Sea in the Discovery and nine
years later, a captain, he took the Terra
Nova past Godley Head on the way to
the Pole and death. Between times, on
New Year’s Day, 1908, Ernest Shackle-
ton left Lyttelton in the Nimrod. This is
Byrd’s fifth sortie, and at the moment it
isn’t clear whether he’ll go by sea from
Lyttelton or fly from Harewood airport,
seven miles distant, in one of the score
of aircraft he’s taking south. Choice of
Harewood pleases Christchurchians:
destination of the international air race
of October, 1953, and regular port-of-call
for Sydney and Melbourne airliners, it
now becomes the first mainland base in
the world for Antarctic aviators. Any-
one who has shivered on its expanses
during a winter’s day appreciates the
appropriateness.
♦> *
“Zake”: For the ultimate in banality
and inappropriateness a Hollywood
script-writer should take a deep bow. The
heroine had been married only a week or
so to a respected dominie of an American
cahledge, but sleuth Ed. G. Robinson was
hot on his trail —he was a badly-wanted
Nazi war-criminal. When he knew the
game was up, the criminal lured his still-
trusting wife to the old clock-tower, there
to do her to death. But the nasty Nazi
reckoned without the redoubtable Ed. G.,
who, after saving the bride, forced the
Lardhead out on to the tower-platform
to be spiked through the gizzard by a
mechanically-revolving figure carrying a
sword. Scorning such an undignified exit,
and with a foot of steel poking out his
back, Fritz disengaged himself, only to
fall spectacularly to the campus below.
A few seconds later, as her relatives are
about to take her down from the perilous
eyrie, Ed. G. speaks to the bride:
“Pleasant dreams!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: Seven-and-six to have
my hair just cut —nothing else! Ah, for
the days when we bumbled up and down
the N.T. railroad on Leaping Lena, and
the nightwatchman at the Katherine
station used to cut it for nix—on the
platform, too! At the height of the “wet”
he finished with scissors, and, raising my
collar, blew down my neck. “Take a
dekko at that!” he exclaimed. “You’ve
a nice dose of prickly ’eat, ’aven’t y’?”
❖
“Allan B.”: In the public library of a
Victorian city which is always boasting
of its beauty, parks, culture, etc., I over-
heard a lady ask the young woman (no
slip of a girl, either) if she had a certain
book by Henry Handel Richardson. A
couple of books were duly produced, and
on being asked if some other title was in
stock the librarian-assistant replied, “Oh
no, that’s all we have of his books!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: What’s wrong with our
canned goods? During the past few
weeks, I have opened lambs’ tongues of
which fully a quarter were inedible
gristle and fragments of bone, a tin
labelled “Red Currant Jelly” which con-
tained black-currant jelly, a, tin of peaches
of which half were green, a tin of pears
consisting of wispy morsels floating in
watery juice, a tin of chicken soup—thin,
tasteless, and innocent of chicken. And
shouldn’t tins be bright and undented?
And labels clean and untom? Or is the
home market expected to take what is
rejected for export?.
THE SENTIMENTALISTS
We’re a band of short-haired sisters
Mixed with long-haired, gentle misters,
And we deem the worst of blisters
That corrupts society’s face
Is the cruel way they’re treating
Men in jail. No central heating,
Not ev’n upholstered seating —
And we think it a disgrace.
Prison-life should be more pleasant,
They should get roast duck and pheasant,
Everyone a weekly present,
Best of talkies every night.
Much less work and much more leisure,
Better clothes (all made-to-measure)
These are hopes we fondly treasure,
This is the goal we have in sight.
We are strong in our demanding
That authorities be handing
Fairer deal, a better standing
To the murderer under lock.
In a black rage he might smother
Or decapitate his mother.
But we can’t condemn our brother,
He might just have done his block.
When a lifer’s put on gruel
For misdeeds in jail it’s cruel.
When we hear of it we. duel
With the heads-of-prison men.
Should the judge decree a lashing
(Barbarous man I) for razor-slashing
Or a spot of baby-bashing,
We get real indignant then.
There are sadists who’d make hotter
Punishment for the garotter.
But for him we always spot a
Chance to help him in the jug.
Even if to death he kicked him
We’ve a very solid dictum :
Why be sorry for the victim
When we can be for the thug?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The pick
ofihe bunch
since
t 847 M
L
Chlancb
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
During the Royal visit even hardened
pressmen in Melbourne, their own offices
chocked with plans and specifications for
their assistance, were astonished at the
meticulousness of William John Jung-
wirth’s provisions for every conceivable
detail of the event. He was then secre-
tary of Premier Cain’s department, and
is now of Bolte’s, and his unseen hand
controlled everything. But, then, Jung-
wirth is an old hand at organising:
member of, the Victorian Central Plan-
ning Association, the State’s Emergency
Council for Civil Defence, the Patriotic
Funds Council and a host of others.
Born in Ballarat (just 58), he’s off to
London, his job to complete arrange-
ments for the Duke’s Olympiad visit next
year. There should be no hitches.
• •
Appointed actuary of the ’Wales (its
first), J. R. Harris (31) hails from Fam-
bor.ough (of the jets), at Cambridge
majored (or should it be “wrangled”?)
in maths, and got three years’ experience
for the ’Wales post as associate-actuary
with an Australian assurance company.
An earlier three years were spent with
the War II R.A.F., Intelligence work.
• •
Every second year Yale University
awards the Howland Prize to “the citizen
of any country in recognition of some
achievement of marked distinction in the
field of literature, fine arts or tfie science
of government.” This year’s Howland
has been given to Sir Owen Dixon, on the
High Court Bench of Australia for a
quarter of a century, now Chief Justice.
• •
The curriculum vitce of Donald
Augustus Dowling (hereunder) takes in
a mort of experience, widely gained,
since he took his medicine and surgery
degrees from Adelaide University in 1923.
After the usual term assisting with
forceps and sutures at Adelaide Hos-
pital he was a g.-p. for three years, and
then entered the Commonwealth De-
partment of Health. That was something
near 30 years back —meantime he has
QUEENSLAND’S HEALTH
medicoed in pretty well every Australian
capital, as far west as Fremantle, north
to Thursday Island, overseas in London
(Australia House) and is currently in
charge of Queensland’s public health. He
lectures in Hygiene and Social Medicine
at Queensland University, is on the
National Fitness Council, and since 1948
has held various offices in the World
Health Organisation, from chairman of
the finance committee to (for the 1951
assembly) vice-president. He was at
Gallipoli and in France, was a private
and ended as a lieutenant. One-time
South Australian rep. in lacrosse, at 60
bowls and gardening occupy his extra-
departmental time.
Resigned from the general secretary-
ship of the Royal Australian Historical
Society, which he has held for 14 years,
Charles Price Conigrave, whose name is
well known in the far outback and else-
where as the leader of scientific expedi-
tions to the Kimberleys in 1910-11 and
to Central Papua in 1929. Originally he
was on the zoological staff of Perth
AUSTRALIA’S HISTORY
Museum and in the early ’twenties was
in the N.T. Administration service and
was private-secretary to the redoubtable
Urquhart during some exciting Darwin
years. He acted as cicerone to Edmund
Rothschild during the latter’s journey
through the north in 1938. Between
Australian history (particularly con-
cerned with the Dutch explorers
and the foundations of the N.T.),
nature-study and geography he has
accumulated a fund of knowledge
about the Australian scene and is a
lucid, homespun type of lecturer and
broadcaster, and his aptitudes and wide
and picturesque knowledge should stand
him in good stead during the new expedi-
tion which he is about to make to
England. He is the author of some
excellent travel-books and articles and
edited the history of the Grand Masonic
Lodge.
• •
“Eggs-a-Cook” on the Old Man:
Back again as chairman of trustees of the
Westralian R.S.L., Colonel William (“Old Bill,”
of course) Mansbridge must have an almost
unique record of league service—since he
became the first State president 40 years ago
he has never been out of an official league
position.
After the Landing, where he was knocked
and won D;S.O., and after hospital-discharge,
he was promoted lieutenant-colonel and com-
missioned to form the 44th Battalion. He took
it into Messines. His proud boast was that
he knew every man in the original unit; we
were always called “Old Bill’s Thousand,”
though the Old Bill, then, hardly fitted him.
He did not look so venerable. On demob, he
became a magistrate, and was in Broome for
the riots over Jap pearlers in the 1920’5. Ten
years of magistrating, and he was transferred
to Wiluna, where he and the police-sergeant
became so unpopular with the toughs in the
then-booming mining-town that a deputation
to the Minister for Police requested their
transfer. Deputation rebuffed.
In Hitler’s show Old Bill liaised between
voluntary organisations and the Army, from an
office in Swan Barracks. Access to this was
through my own possie, and it was not un-
common for a strange bewhiskered phiz to
poke round the door and ask if “the colonel”
was in. Then, for the next hour or so, we’d
be treated to salty reminiscences of the
Murchison and north-west. For some years he
sat on the Perth Police Court bench, and dealt
as lightly as he could with any of the old mob
up for lubricating too freely. He still holds
the honorary colonelcy of the 44th. The grand
old boy is 83.
• •
Gone on in Melbourne, John Tait
(patriarch of the brothers) was usually
to be seen, a nuggety grey figure with
hands clasped behind his back and hat
pushed back on a greying head, wander-
ing along the lanes of Melbourne or
gazing, with expert though casual
appraisal, at a building across the street.
Real-estate was as much his business as
entrepreneuring —luckily foL the legit,
theatre. He probably knew the value of
every block and stone in the southern
metropolis, and his estate deals helped
to pay for many of his theatrical ventures.
He also, in his time, made the fireworks
Victorian boys used to launch skywards,
was a director of Barnet Glass and owned
a cinema or two.
His best-remembered memory of early
days was when he worked' for a bob or
' two a week for a Jewish pawnbroker.
Assigned to carry a golden casket to a
bank across the way, he had this dis-
tinguished service rewarded by a grateful
owner pressing a ten-bob note into his
hand. Since then, as head of Jhe Firm,,
J.T. had presented a multitude of glitter-
ing caskets to Australian audiences —
Melba, John McCormack, Galli-Curci,
Menuhin, Pavlova, Paderewski: the list
is endless.
The name J. C. Williamson’s is today
only a survival, but a young Englishman
who once walked into one of Tait’s Mel-
bourne theatres didn’t know that. He
had, he said, met a charming gentleman in
Sydney who’d told him he knew Mr.
Williamson so well that the Englishman
had only to walk into a Melbourne
theatre and mention the c.g.’s name.
“Young man,” said Tait, staring at him
coldly, “I helped bury Mr. Williamson
before you were born.” /
John was 83 at the end; brothers
Nevin and Frank survive.
• •
Rocks, plaijp and fancy, exposed, dis-
integrated, extruded, deposited, molten
or eroded, have been the study of Norman
Henry Fisher ever since his student days
at Toowoomba Grammar and Queens-
land University. His first big job in rock-
interpretation was as geologist at Mount
Isa mines. After that he went to New
Guinea as 'Government Geologist and
Vulcanologist; while there he designed
and established the vulcanological
observatory at Rabaul. Now Chief Geol-
ogist of the Commonwealth Bureau of
Mineral Resources, he explains the work
of his staff in roughly these words: “We
carry out general geological surveys of
big areas, reporting in a broad way on
the types of minerals likely to be worth
searching for in those areas. Then it’s up
to private interests to follow up the
clues.” It was this policy ' which con-
tributed to the present intensive oil-
boring operations in Westralia and to
the opening-up of uranium-fields in the
Northern Territory. The bureau has
TERRITORY’S ROCKS
half-a-dozen parties still at work in the
Territory ; others in the Canning Desert
and Carnarvon Basin in W.A. Fisher
himself recently took a year off from the'
main job to go on a U.N. assignment to
South America as mineral adviser to the
Bolivian Government; rocks, apparently,
speak the same language the world
over.
Sighted in Fremantle, A. T. Hill,
known' as Melanesia’s “Sailor Bishop”;
his diocese covers a thousand islands,
including the Solomons and the New
Hebrides. Well-rigged for both title and
job, he was a master mariner before he
was ordained, and is on his way back
from England, where he raised funds for
building a new 100-ton vessel, Southern
Cross viii, which will be the newest of a
line founded over 100 years ago. It will
take over from S.C. vn, a 300-tonner
laid-up in Sydney.
JOSEF KRIPS, at work with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra. He is the only
conductor in living musical memory able
to dispense with a score while rehearsing,
as well as on the concert-platform.
“A.C.T.’ : Getting his sea-legs in the
Shipping afid Transport portfolio in
Canberra, the Menzies Government’s
newest and youngest Minister, Westralian
Senator Shane Dunne Paltridge, began in
a bank, later became a publican, and
forsook business when he was first elected
to the Senate in 1951. With the burly
build of an athlete, he hasn’t had time to
get any grey hairs at 45, but admits his
new tasks may call for careful navigation.
A qualified accountant, active on the
Joint Parliamentary Public Accounts
Committee, in his younger days with the
National Bank in Sydney he supple-
mented his clerk’s salary by doing
people’s “books,” and parring for The
Bulletin. Schooled in Westralia,
Queensland and N.S.W., he had the
experience of representing Queensland in
schoolboy Rugby against N.S.W. at the
beginning of .one season, and N.S.W.
against Queensland later in the same
season. In the West he ran a hotel at
Park, and took the keenest
interest *in sporting and community
affairs, as well as serving on the commit-
tee of his branch of the R.S.L. Qualified
by joining the R.A.A.F. in 1940, trans-
ferring to the A.I.F. in 1942, and serving
as a gunner with the 2/7th Field Regi-
ment in New Guinea and Borneo.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 68, Ted Scott, Old Digger,
widely popular amongst his crowd as a reciter,
a maker of surgical boots, and noted boxer
in his day. He was in great demand at Digger
functions between the world wars as a reciter
of C. J. Dennis.
In Melbourne, at 62, Leslie Charles Reed,
many years in the. liquor-industry. He was
managing-director of United Distillers,
probably the largest distillery in the Southern
Hemisphere.
In London, after an accidental fall from
Waterloo Bridge, Henry Gray, at 55. He was
on a world tour for the Victorian Country
Roads Board. Recognised as possibly the
highest authority in Australia on asphalt-
engineering, he had much to do with building
Victoria’s highways, and had been overseas for
six ' months looking into bitumen road-
construction.
In Sydney, at 65, Harold D. Yates, head of
the seed-firm and eldest son of founder Arthur
Yates. For long a hard-working Rotarian in
Sydney, he had presided for several terms over
the Seed Trade Association.
In Melbourne, at 47, Footscray football-club
secretary Roy Russell, one of the Victorian
Football League’s best-known and most capable
administrators. Secretary for five years,
treasurer and committeeman as well, he was his
club’s delegate to the V.F.L. and selector ot
State teams, and had managed two inter-State
sides. This year he had been appointed chair-
man of the permit and umpires committee.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 60, Rod Talbot “the
Digger every Digger knew.” He had broad-
cast the Diggers’ session from IZB for 21 years
and had cobbers from North Cape to the
Blufi. He was wounded at the Landing.


Wf
"go^oW
0$% C J
0
'ft*
<A/
SEMI-NAKED TRUTH


ABORIGINALITIES
A PICTURESQUE visitor to Sydney’s
exclusive Carby Club is aborigine
Jackie Jira, of Barummindi Reserve
(N.T.). He has been sent by his people
to seek information on the general
conduct of the Australian Redex Trial.
It appears that the-trial has caught the
imagination of the Urruba-Urribi tribe,
who are very keen to organise their own
trial next year. Club officials listened
with interest as the tribe’s spokesman
outlined his people’s plans.
“We bin rid’m kangaroos,” Jackie
said. “We bin start at Wagga-Wagga and
rid’m all round. We keep’m food and
water in pouch. If kangaroo he cut’m
foot, no bandage. If kanga bin jump
more’n three-feet, los’m ten-hunderd
points. Twenty-hunderd points he bin
los’m if kangaroo have one little bruise.
Fifty-hunderd points he los’m if kangaroo
have two little bruises. Three little bruises
and rider bin get’m head chopped off.
We bin keep’m winner big secret for fear
tribal warfare.”
J. C. W.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: In town for his quarterly
blowout, Fred went straight to the police-
station, where he had been a guest on
many occasions. He handed the sergeant
a bulky parcel and said, “Ask one of the
boys to rig this up for me: the mossies
nearly drove me nuts last time.” It was
a mosquito-net.
» * * *
“Digger’s Road”: My Scottish fore-
bears often referred to the “sad-iron”
(B. 24/8/’55). A set of irons in three
sizes stood on the kitchen mantelpiece
and the order came at times to “put the
sad-iron to the fire.” The qualifying
“sad” was also used in another sense.
The family were champion butter-
makers, and the warm milk had to be
strained into big plates at each milking;
w 6 were always reminded to put a tea-
spoon of saltpetre in the plate. I was
told that this was to “sadden the butter”
so that it would gain points for* its
texture. Thus the old Scottish “sadden”
meant flatten or smooth.
* * * »
“Saaedi”: Albino birds are rare, parti-
cularly among honeyeaters, but I sighted
a New Holland the other day which
looked as though it had fallen in a
whitewash-bucket. It was identifi-
able by a light-yellow wash on the
wings, certain faint head-markings
and, of course, its call. Many birds
resent freaks in their flocks, but
this one behaved as though it had
never heard of an inferiority-
complex—it seemed to enjoy full
citizenship, it brawled bumptiously
over the blossoms with an
energy remarkable even for its
very active clan, and it was so con-
spicuous as it flashed from tree to tree
that it appeared to be the only bird on
the wing. I’ve seen no evidence yet that
it has any sex-appeal —a matter of
possibly more significance that its social
status. Prospective mates might regard t
it as far too conspicuous a creature to
have around any nest.
“J.P.R.”: The presentation of a movie
of the mistletoe-bird, or flower-pecker,
to the Queen during her Australian tour
was an admirable choice —the tiny fowl
is packed with personality. It is the habit
of these birds, generally moving singly,
to make a round of favorite mistletoe-
bushes daily—a convenient custom from
the viewpoint of observers and photo-
graphers. In areas where predators
abound the flower-pecker’s movements
are most circumspect—its approach to
the chosen tree is by a circuitous route
and it perches a while on the top, jerking
its body from side to side at a great
rate as it anxiously surveys the sur-
roundings. Satisfied, it drops down to
the mistletoe, where, enveloped in foliage,
its demeanor usually changes from
extreme nervousness to almost complete
calm. It usually moves in a zigzag
fashion not conducive to speed, though
I saw one with a butcher-bird on its tail
move so fast and straight that the iron-
beaked butch, missed its meal. The cock
of the species, a pretty fellow with bluish-
black upper parts and red breast, warbles
sweetly when in the mood. Unfortunately
the bird gets a place in the rogue’s gallery
for helping to spread the parasitic
mistletoe.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: An authoritative book
on Malayan birds tells me that the
cuckoos of that peninsula lay in nests
where the eggs are similar in color to
their own. Australian cuckoos are much
more casual, choosing their hosts
indiscriminately—except for size—and
preying on scores of species. An excep-
tion is the black-eared cuckoo, whose
confidence-trick is mostly played on the
speckled-warbler, a bird whose eggs
closely resemble its own. The cuckoo’s
"IF they'd only give us a pagan now and again for a change."
carelessness in*choosing foster-parents for
its progeny doesn’t seem to have affected
its continuance as a species ; on the other
hand they’re abnormally lazy birds—no
doubt because of their parasitism in
breeding-matters —and that could tell
against them in hard times. Incidentally,
they’re not the only parasites —the honey-
guider of Africa and cow-birds of
America use like*" stratagems to avoid the
tiresome task of baby-sitting.
* * * *
“Narra”: A pair of willie-wagtails
hereabouts get the bulk of their living
from the sea. They spend most of their
time among the jumble of iron-hard rocks
that litter the base of a high headland
“ Now , once again— ‘The Flowers That Bloom in the Spring Tra-la.'”
and get some normal wagtail-tucker from
the insects disturbed by the splash of
spray, but the main items on their menu
are minute marine organisms. They
work the areas uncovered by receding
waters and, like saltwater waders, are
busiest when the tide is low. Not having
suitable plumage for aquatic activities,
these wags tend to become waterlogged,
but they overcome it by frequently hang-
ing out their wings to dry—like a shag,
though in somewhat less statuesque style.
Apparently these birds exploit the sea
because they like -seafood —the neighbor-
hood supports scores of their kind who
get a living in the orthodox manner.
* * * *
“Morisset”: My father, born a century
ago, held that the usual method of break-
ing horses (R. 14/9/’55) was to rope a
colt, drag it to a post, slip the halter
on (making sure it could not pull tight
around the jaw), and then let the horse
pull until it tired. The end of the halter
was held so that it could be slackened if
the colt reared or threw itself down. In
Those days horses weren’t broken-in
until they were five or six years old, so
that they could go straight into work.
Those horses would buck every time they
had a spell. There is a vast difference
between breaking-in a two-year-old
reared while its mother has been worked
and one reared in almost brumby-
conditions.
# * * *
“Caveman”: The first phonograph I
heard was mounted on a buggy. It was
an Edison cylinder-machine, but, instead
of having a horn to spread the sound, the
sound-box was fitted to carry several
long flexible tubes, rather like a doctor’s
stethoscope. Having paid the proprietor
your sixpence, you got tubes and clamped
them into your ears; then, the other
tubes all having customers, he started her
up and you listened to, say, “The Side-
walk of New York.” The buggy was
rigged with two machines, one on each
side, to cope with the crowds. I was
reminded of it the other day by hearing
the old song on a wireless programme —
somebody said it was a nice new tune.
* * *
/
“Ex-Downes”: Ernie and Trimmer
stopped at the homestead for smoke-oh
on their way back from town. It was
careless of them to leave a cake on the
seat of their truck while they were
absent, and when they reappeared it had
gone. Ernie and Trimmer cussed every
dog on the place. Next day they heard
from the boss that his pet goat had died.
It was a fruit-cake still hot from the
oven, and Mrs. Trimmer has never heard
the end of it. But surely sweet William
must be gastronomically less tough than
he used to be!
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: A stranger in the bush
town, I was walking past the only pub
when the door swung back and a giant
of a man hurled himself out. Behind
him poured out seven or eight other
men. The big fellow glared around
wildly, sighted me, charged across,
slammed something cold into my hand,
commanded, “Hold these,” and whirled
back and confronted the others. “Put
’em up!” he ordered a short, thick-set
fellow. The chap seemed as though he
preferred to keep the thing on a verbal
basis. “Now, look here,” he began; “it’s
nothing to fight over” “Ain’t it?
Ain’t it!” roared the big-’un. “Put ’em
up, I said! ” He rushed in swinging. I
didn’t see the punch land. There was a
click like a china-egg dropping on con-
crete, then the group was gathered around
a still, stretched-out figure. I placed the
giant’s false-teeth on his chest and left
the conqueror to bring him round.
* * * *
“Konmak”: Beside the main road at
Bingil Bay, a holiday-resort south of
Mourilyan Harbor (Q.), is a huge, rusty
iron boiler once used in a mill for grind-
ing coffee-beans., A Moreton Bay fig-
tree rises through the manhole on top, and
has been there so long it dwarfs its queer
leg-armor. Its leaves and branches are
healthy enough, yet it has grown slowly
for a fig. It looks as if the roots trailing
down inside the boiler have found no
hole to crawl through into the nourishing
soil.
* * * *
'THERE are more than one species
of leaf-cutter bee. The ones that
pink the rose-bushes in my garden—a
red-faced variety—cut-out the moon-
shaped pieces, but from there on the pro-
cess is different.
No cocoon formed out of leaf-pieces
for this bee. She tucks the piece under
her chin in a cavity specially formed for
the purpose, and flies to the nest pre-
viously selected. It may be a small hole
less than half-an-inch in diameter and an
inch or so deep, in a veranda post, or she
may use the abandoned nest of a' mud-
dauber wasp. While she’s flying there she
seems to masticate the leaf because, on
arrival, she enters the nest and
immediately starts to spread a sticky
fluid around the walls right out to the
edge of the hole.
When the nest is coated to her satis-
faction she stocks it with a confection
made, I think, from nectar and pollen,
making frequent visits to the gum-
blossoms and returning with her abdomen
covered with pollen. She scrapes it off
inside the nest and when it’s full she lays
her egg in amongst it and seals the open-
ing with a green material that hardens
quickly. I’ve picked out this seal and ex-
posed the nest full of a custard-like con-
coction which obviously feeds the grub
up to the pupating-stage.
On a good day there’ll be up to a
dozen of these bees working my rosebuds,
which won’t have a whole leaf left on
them. And there won’t be a suitable
opening in the vicinity that hasn’t been
occupied.
KELMS.
WHITE COCKATOOS
The ringbarked gum on the flat below
Is burdened with blossoms of living snow;
Bare as a bone
It stood alone,
Flowerless, till five minutes ago.
The breeze that was all the day retelling
The news that the first cuckoo was spelling
Carefully over
The paddocks of clover
Is suddenly rent with a raucous yelling.
The purring river forgets to purr,
The rushes lash and the reedbeds stir;
The mood of the flat
Is like that of a cat
Suddenly roughed the wrong way of its fur.
It must be important, the way they shout;
It may be a secret, though this I doubt.
Will deafness fall
On one and all?
What are the cockatoos screaming about?
Then suddenly, as at the word of “go,”
Over the rise they flap and flow.
Slip from the branches
Like avalanches
Of some impossible summer snow.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ..... .. :
Yearly Subscription^
27-
22
SIROMARK
(REGD. TRADE MARK OF C.5.1.R.0.)
SHEEP BRANDING FU/tD
Available in three brilliant colours
RED, GREEN and BLUE (L.B.E. BLACK also available)
Bf USED ON mT
UN
ORDER NOW
FROM TOUR USUAL SUPPLIER
Marketed in Australia by
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
SIR. IX. 1983
npHE goat had climbed on to the
canvas-hooded utility to feed on the
low-hanging foliage of an acacia-tree.
Its browsing efforts had driven its four
feet through the hood-top into the front
cabin-space and there it hung, treading
air in wailing disbelief. The gaudy sign
on the ute’s side read: “Quality in
canvas.” —“Kluff.”
*** \ *
“J.S.J.”: Getting rid of a “tarantula”
which had crept through an open window
and caused near-panic in my 1 household, I
wondered once again at the temerity of
the spider in showing itself so openly,
and at the fear caused by its appearance.
Not exactly a beauty, it is nevertheless
classed as harmless and, indeed, the most
docile of Australian spiders. Properly
known as the huntsman-spider, its
remains are often found in the rebates of
doors and windows, which trap it when
closed suddenly. How it came to be
popularly known as the tarantula is a
mystery, for there is no record of anyone
in Australia dancing a .tarantella or of
being cured of spider-bite by music, as
was once the practice in Italy, home of
the. tarantula. A
<• * ' * *
“Fair Mac”: the old libel on the skink
family—that a blue-tongue’s bite causes
a permanent sore—apparently still exists
in Africa. Gerald Durrel, in his Bafut
Beagles, a humorous and interesting
account of small animals of the
Cameroons, describes a skink known to
the natives as a Que-fong-goo and, but
for its vivid colors, the African reptile
sounds very like the Aussie blue-tongue.
The Bafut native hunters handle spitting-
cobras and similar deadly snakes with
nonchalant carelessness, but are terrified
of the Que-fong-goo ; even to touch its
skin, they believe, means certain and
agonising death. The author, with a
specimen almost in his grasp, is leaped
upon and “rescued” by a loyal hunter.
Only when he assures the “beagles” (his
name for his troupe of hunters) that he
has “white-man medicine” to protect him
will they reluctantly locate the reptile.
Captured, it champs harmlessly on the
author’s finger without breaking the skin
—like its Australian cousin, the Que-
fong-goo has the tiniest serrations on
bony gums to serve as teeth.
* * * *
“Fairf”: I searched through the
N.S.W. Railways’ Centenary Exhibition,
but the 1063 wasn’t there! About'3s
years ago every kid in our district knew
her and waited on the way home from
school to see her pass, heading for
Liverpool. She was a noble engine of
glittering paint and polished brass. Even
the engine of the Melbourne Express
took second place in our values to the
stopping - all - stations 1063. She was
acknowledged as the smartest turned-out
loco, on the southern line and her crew
once refused to take her out because
there was a smudge on her brass number.
I inquired her fate from a railway-man
in attendance. “The ten-sixty-three,”
he ruminated. “Think she went to the
East—we sold a lot of light engines to the
Chinese.” I left, thinking of the old
ballad about “A team of sweaty coolies
underneath a scorching sun; working
out a penance for a crime.”
* * * *
“Bulgun”: “Bass” is right (B. 7/9/’55);
it was a male emu that attacked the car.
When the chicks are hatched it is the
cock-bird that takes over until the young
ones grow up. Out from Hughenden
(Q.) we came across two cock-emus, one
with six chicks in tow, the other seven.
My mate, who knows emus, tipped a
stoush. He was right. The baker’s-dozen
of offspring stood on the sidelines cheer-
“ There! I KNEW you'd taken the Wrong turn-off!"
ing their sires on when they got stuck
into it, after circling each other warily a
few times. The one round lasted 80
minutes, the beaten bird remembered an
urgent appointment somewhere over the
horizon, while the winner collected all 13
chicks and went his way.
* * * *
“J.E.M.”: Knew a tough horse-breaker
out Bourke (N.S.W.) way. One day he
broke his nose while at the job. He got
from ths station-storeman a pencil, which
he broke in two. Shoving these rude
splints up each nostril he went on with
the breaking-in.
* * * ■•>
“B.”: Whenever claims are made for
long-distance walking feats I am
reminded of F. G. Simmons, telegraph-
engineer, of Adelaide, who died last year.
In 1910, when he examined the Overland
Telegraph from end to end, he travelled
2230 horizontal miles and about 100 more
vertical, for he climbed about 90 per
cent, of the 35,999 poles on which the
wires were strung. Even on faulty, leaky
and heavy-working circuits hand-sending
will get through, or at least enough of it
for an intelligent receiver to “guess” the
rest. But at that time high-speed trans-
mission was just being introduced, and
its torrent of fleeting pinpoints of current,
automatic both in transmission and
reception, required circuits bordering on
perfection. By careful scrutiny and
examination Simmons picked faults on
his northward move, and left repair-
gangs to attend to them. On his return
journey he inspected the work; and
thereafter for many years - transmission
was speedy and trouble-free. Simmons
later became Superintendent of N.S.W.
Telegraphs, retiring in 1945.
* * * sk
“Motuku”: If “Saaedi” wants grey
magpies (B. 21 /9/’55) he is welcome to
any of the eight that are here now sing-
ing for their breakfast. They are
yearlings, outside parental control while
the old birds are nesting, and they are
having a wonderful time, free of care
and full of mischief, while it lasts. Their
heads, pinions and tail-feathers are now
black, but all their other feathers and
their bills are still grey, though it won’t
be long before they, too, are all black
and white. The “give-them-curry” busi-
ness is regular routine, as the young birds
have to be forcibly weaned. Full-grown
«
and well able to help themselves, they
will run after the old birds, squawking
to be fed with scraps that they have only
to pick up off the grass till their parents
get fed-up and “belt a bit of sense into
them.” If the magpie-population in any
area has reached saturation-point the
younger birds, still in their grey plumage,
are forced to emigrate, and it won’t be
long before this gang get their marching-
orders to make room for the new broods.
* * * *
“J.A.8.”: “A comfortable bed”
interested me when visiting the Margaret
Station in Westralia’s far north-west. It
was movable, running on wooden disks
about thick cut from a round log
with a hole in the centre for the axle.
A bullock-hide with hair still attached
stretched from side to side to hold a
home-made mattress. The whole thing
could be moved about on the veranda
with perfect ease. It was the owner’s
1928-model.
* * * *
“Pat”: Fishing an estuary near
Bundaberg (Q.), and using a double-trace,
an angler tangled his traces round the
jaws of a Long Tom. After several
rushes and frantic leaps, the Tom
grabbed a bream and hastily swam to
the angler, holding the thrashing fish in
its jaws. It was obviously a cunning
attempt to buy its freedom. The
unimaginative one on the other end of
the line, however, passed-up a golden
opportunity to build goodwill for the
human race among the scaly population
by jubilantly creeling the two of them.
* * * *
“Hist”: Touching on near-side, off-side
as applied to cattle, I worked on a
property on which the milking-cows
were selected from the station’s Beef
Shorthorn herd. These were brokeri-in
to be milked from what in cows is called
the off-side (i.e., the cow’s left side);
I never learned the reason. Later the
station acquired some dinkum milkers
with normal near-side habits, and I had
to build a double-ended bail that I
could accommodate either school.
OLD COLLIE
In the blue shadow of the scarlet tree
with afternoon about him gold and deep
and birds’ familiar calls in every key,
he fell asleep.
All our effort still was not enough;
care and vigil could not hold him back
to seek with us again the sunlit bluff,
the shelving track.
In the blue shadow of the scarlet tree
with the hot evening welling warm and deep
and sunset trailing gonfalons of gold,
he fell asleep.
Oh, was it fancy as we lingered there _
that through the brilliant curtain of our tears
there flashed upon our gaze an image fair
from other years? —
a comrade young and strong, with amber eyes,
springing from the green grass where he lay,
and joyfully, as in his youth and pride,
bounding away.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.
ANGLES ON HORSEMANSHIP
TN Billy Waite “J.” saw probably the
A greatest rider of the day (B. 10/8/’55).
In the May, 1908, of “Lone Hand”
a writer who knew his subject pinned
the issue to a choice between buckjump-
rider Waite and English steeplechaser-
rider Arthur Nightingall. He decided
on Waite (or, as he put it, “the Waite
type”) because he had “an incomparably
stronger seat than the Englishman,” was
“a defter hand at escaping more-or-less
whole from a bad fall,” and “a finer
all-round horsemaster, inasmuch that any
horse that another man can ride will go
well enough with him; and some horses
that no other man can ride (and that few
other men would attempt to ride) will
submit to him.”
It’s a difficult thing to assess a “best
rider” when you have to consider differ-
ent types of horses, climates and condi-
tions under which they’re ridden. Though
the article considered most claimants,
including racehorse-riders on “the flat,”
there was a questionable gap in the
analysis when the American continent
wasn’t considered. Those riders in
Westerns must fit in somewhere. And
just as the Arab horse suggests an Arab
rider, so are other suspicions aroused.
Nevertheless, I think to see a good
Aussie “rough-rider” is to see the best.
Because they’re dubbed “rough-riders”
and stick mercilessly with their mount
until he’s “done to a frazzle,” these men
are often looked upon as. “horse-killers.”
But the true horse-breaker is severe on a
horse only when he has to be. I!ve heard
men say: “Y’ gotta bluff ’em! Y’ gotta
keep ’em bluffed! ” Some horses are wild
all their life, but the chap who says that
usually steers clear of this type.
You can watch the fellow who rides
your fancy at Randwick or Caulfield.
He’s a master, perhaps, of a style of
riding: beautiful balance and delicate in
his use of arms, legs, spurs s and whip.
You can watch the poised “gentleman-
rider” on his Galloway at the Show ; the
rider who steers them over “the jumps”;
and the man who controls his horse with
a pair of reins from a frail trotting-gig.
The best at these branches are all good
horsemen —they have to be. But it’s the
man who can prepare a horse for any of
these specialised fields, can make a fair
fist at any of the “specials” and can ride
horses that other men wouldn’t approach
— ; he’s your good and, probably, your
best rider.
ZANDA.


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of&—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS . ,
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:-
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS
TIMBER MERCHANTS
DUPLICATOR
8 END FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Ha* all the finest lectures
cl high-priced Imported
machines at only a trac-
tion of their cost- The
"National'" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc-
Built entirely tm Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE . . Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . . Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
29th Annual Report
THE GAS SUPPLY CO. LTD.
Registered Office:
252 Swanston Street, Melbourne. 7th September, 1955.
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT
The Directors submit to Shareholders their twenty-ninth annual
report and the annexed Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss
Account for the year ended 30th June, 1955.
1955.
The Accounts for the year show a profit of .. •• ••
Add amount brought forward from the preceding year .. B > oud
Less Interim Dividends paid March, 1955
Fixed Cumulative Preference Stock Units —3 /o
Ordinary Stock Units —4%
71,631
£3,900
20,800
24,700
Leaving a Balance of
.. £46,931
Which the Directors recommend be appropriated
Final Dividend on Fixed Cumulative Preference
Stock Units, 3% (making 6% for the year)
Final Dividend on Ordinary Stock Units, 4/o
(making 8% for the year)
as follows: —
£3,900
20,800
Transfer to Reserve
Carry Forward
24,700
10,000
12,231
£46,931
ass.
7,098
62,803
3,900
18,200
22,100
£40,703
3,900
18,200
22,100
10,000
8,603
£40,703
PROFIT
The Consolidated Accounts show a
profit of £63,562, an increase of
£7,789 over last year. This is after
allowing depreciation of £42,350 (in-
crease £4,000) and Income Tax
£34,000 (increase of £3,590).
Dividend on the Fixed Cumulative
Preference shares absorbs £7,800, and
it is recommended that the Ordinary
Dividend be increased to 8%, absorb-
It is ’recommended that £lO,OOO be
placed to Reserve, leaving £14,210 to
be carried forward in the Consoli-
dated Accounts.
BALANCE SHEET
The Capital and the Debenture loan
remain the same as last year. De-
posits from shareholders for fixed
periods are £93,041, a reduction of
£12122. Bank overdraft has in-
creased by £35,820 to £79,987.
Plant, Machinery, Land and Build
ings have increased by £57,808; Cus-
tomers’ Accounts by £4,780, while
stocks have reduced by £13,094.
Comparisons with the last pre-war
year (1939) are interesting. In spite
of the greatly increased costs since
then, our capital cost per unit of
sales is lower.
With an index of 100 for 1939, the
figures for last year are:—
Gas Sales 255
Number of Consumers 244
Capital, Debentures, De-
posits and Bank Over-
draft 224
PLANT AND DISTRIBUTION
Many extensions of mains have been
made, and new services and
meters provided at all Branches.
This has also required certain addi-
tions to Works Plants. We are
experimenting with an improved
retort charging machine; we have
installed additional mechanical
equipment for handling coal and
coke. We have extended the prac-
tice of the use of wood in our pro-
ducers, thus releasing more coke to
the market, which is short of this
excellent fuel. , ,
By careful attention to detail,
we are getting a longer life from
most of our Carbonizing Plants.
As is well known, the population
of Australia is increasing steadily,
and this automatically brings us
new customers in the cities and
towns which we supply. _ We are in
a position to meet this demand,
though at some Branches additional
plant w r ill be required.
PRICES
Although the cost of wages, coal
and many other items that we pur-
eliase has increased, we have held
the price of gas at last year’s figures
and, indeed, have reduced prices
slightly at some Branches.
SALES
The volume of gas sales showed a
further increase of 3 per cent,
during the year. Sales of gas appli-
ances also reached a very high
level as a result of special seasonal
campaign sales drives. During the
early summer, a gas refrigerator
campaign was featured which re-
sulted in an increase of 47 per
cent, in refrigerator sales over the
previous year. A gas cooker
“change over” plan followed in
February, which produced a sub-
stantial increase in cooker sales.
The high level of sales was evident
with all appliances. All of the avail-
able residuals were sold to an ex-
panding market.
EMPLOYEES
Our employees have given the Com-
pany their usual good service. It
is pleasing to report that the
amount standing to the credit of
members of the Provident Fund is
£73,100. which includes an alloca-
tion from this year’s profits of
£1,600. Many of the members also
carry additional Life Assurance-
arranged by the Trustees at low
cost to the employee. The_ total
amount of the policies is £23,500.
GENERAL CONDITIONS
As is well known, there is at present
in Australia a condition of full em-
ployment, and a shortage of men. in
certain trades. There is also in-
sufficient capital saving, although
we are benefiting by the provision
of some overseas capital. Overseas
funds are gradually diminishing,
and the Government is restricting
imports to arrest this. It would
seem necessary, however, to en-
deavor to make conditions more
favorable for the export trades and
relieve the position in this way.
After a period of fairly stable
prices, there have been increases
'in many items lately, and we seem
to be approaching a condition oi
mild inflation again.
No abnormal factors affected the
Company’s business during the year.
THE FUTURE
The Company is in good condition,
and we look forward to the future
with confidence.
For and on behalf of the Board.
It; A. SCHUCHARD.
Chairman.
DEVELOPMENTS IN NEW GUINEA
PROBABLY the most interest-
ing activity in Papua and
New Guinea, in the eyes of Aus-
tralians, is the current search for
oil there. But many other de-
velopments are going on, in-
cluding the growing of coffee
and cocoa. The following infor-
mation and figures have been
provided by the Minister for
Territories (Mr. Paul Hasluck).
In the post-war period, follow-
ing the resumption of civil ad-
ministration in Papua and New
Guinea, there has been greatly
increased activity and develop-
ment, with a very large increase
in the amount of the Common-
wealth grant to the Territory.
The annual grants paid to the
Territory in the post-war years
compared with the last two pre-
war years have been:
Year. Grant.
1937-38 42,500
1938-39 .. .. .. .. 42,500
1945-46 252,740
1948-49 3,196,668
1951-52 5,284,309
1952-53 4,657,022
1953-54 5,421,983
1954.55 .. 7,128,289
1955-56 *8,750,000
♦Provision on 1955-56 Estimates.
The increasing* expenditures
have been used to reorganise
the Administration, improve its
strength and efficiency and raise
the capacity of the building
and construction industries.
Outlay covers provision of
houses, hospitals, offices, work-
shops, roads, wharves and com-
munications. The increase in
capacity of the construction in-
dustries has been assisted by the
greater use of resources within
the Territory—labor from the
growing force of skilled and
semi-skilled native labor and the
timber from Territory forests.
In the provision of finance the
Territory has assumed increased
responsibility, and local revenues
(coming mainly from Customs
and export duties) have stead-
ily increased. The amount and
proportion which local revenue-
collection has borne to total pub-
lic expenditure during the last
eight years are :
\ Total Public Local
Year. Expenditure. Revenue.
1948- .. 4,011,378 1,233,270
1949- .. 5,548,421 1,400,520
1950- .. 6,386,413 1,866,249
1951- .. 7,696,257 2,390,867
1952- .. 7,122,174 2,434,333
1953- .. 8,391,383 2,969,402
1954- .. 10,542,000 3,039,725
1955- .. 11,880,500 3,130,500
♦Estimated figures.
The following table shows the
outlay on capital works last
year and the estimated expendi-
ture on capital works in 1955-56:
Expenditure on Capital Works.
1964-65. 1955-56.
(Est.)
Total expenditure.. 2,371,400 3,963,000
Main categories:—
Building construc-
tion —
Residences, offices,
hospitals, schools,
etc. .. . • 1,035,000 1,750,000
Construction of
wharves, roads,
bridges and minor
aerodromes .. 597,900 |
Electric -power I
supply .. .. 449,400 f 1,340,000
Water-supply and j
sewerage .. 63,500 J
Administration staff has in-
creased from 447 in 1946 to
1130 in 1949 and to 1918 in
1955.
It is planned to recruit a total
number (including replacements)
of 300 personnel for the service
during 1955-56, comprising 113
professional and technical staff,
104 administrative and clerical
staff and 83 general staff. A
system of cadetship - training
which was inaugurated in 1953
has been extended, and it is
proposed to recruit 100 cadets
during 1955-56.
Trade
The growth of New Guinea
and Papuan trade is shown in
the following figures:
Year. Imports. Exports.
£(A) £(A)
1948- .. 7,571,158 4,136,369
1949- .. 9,475,827 5 > 437 >£8
1950- .. 10,829,657 7,359,906
1951- .. 14,012,325 9,307,038
1952- .. 15,093,881 10,814,301
1953- .. 15,166,794 11,113,272
The main exports from the
Territory of Papua and New
Guinea are copra, rubber, gold,
coconut-oil, cocoa, timber,
trochus-shell and coffee.
Agriculture
The economic development of
the territory will be primarily
agricultural in nature for a
considerable time. Notable
agricultural development has
taken place in the post-war years.
During the last five years the
quantities of exports of the main
agricultural commodities have
increased as follows:
Quantity Exported (Tons).
Increase
1953-54
over
Item. 1949-50. 1953-54. 1949-50.
Copra and
copra pro-
ducts . . 67,885 96,900 39,015
Rubber .. 1,634 3,584 1,950
Cocoa - beans 207 1,102 895
Coffee-beans.. 21 106 85
Copra and coconut-oil produc-
tion which is surplus to Aus-
tralia’s requirements is sold to
the United Kingdom under a
contract which is operative up to
December, 1957. The price for
the current year is £ABI ss. per
ton f.o.b. Territory ports, which
is higher than the open-market
price.
A soils-investigation has been
carried out in New Ireland to
determine which copra-planta-
tions are suitable for replanting.
Similar surveys are to be car-
ried out in other areas.
All territory rubber-production
is sold to Australia. The Ad-
ministration has subsidised and
encouraged the importation of
100,000 rubber-seeds of high-
yielding varieties from Malaya.
Local production of rice and
meat is increasing. About 3000
acres are under rice ; production
by natives is being encouraged
in many areas. The cattle-
population is now about 7500,
compared with about 3000 head
in 1949.
Agricultural development in
the Territory is directly assisted
by the Department of Agricul-
ture in the provision of technical
services to both non-native and
native producers. High-yielding
rubber-plants and seeds have
been introduced from Malaya
and Ceylon ; new crops and new
varieties of established crops
have been introduced. Extension-
work among natives to rational-
ise their farming systems and
improve their land-use methods
with increased production and
better soil-conservation have
been given high priority. Cash-
cropping of coconuts, cocoa,
coffee, peanuts and passionfruit
is increasing in the native
economy. During 1954-55 plant-
ing of cocoa by natives was ex-
tended particularly in the Gazelle
Peninsula and the Madang area
and the agricultural extension-
service encouraged an additional
90 villages in the Madang and
Sepik districts to engage in rice-
growing.
Future Programme
The policy for further develop-
ment of agriculture in the Terri-
tory includes the following aims:
(i) Continued technical assistance
to natives and Europeans to
develop the copra-, rubber-,
cocoa-, coffee-, rice- and cattle-
industries ;
07) improvement of native agricul-
ture (both cash and subsistence
crops) by intensified extension-
work on native land-use, intro-
duction of new crops and
improved varieties of sub-
sistence crops;
(ii'O agricultural settlement on land
surplus to native requirements;
(fv) expansion o f agricultural
research and study of inci-
dence and control of diseases
and pests of plants and
animals;
(v) development of animal indus-
tries and fisheries;
(vi) continuation of resources sur-
veys with the assistance of
C.5.1.R.0.
Mining
The production of gold and
the search for oil are the present
most important mining activities
in Papua and New Guinea.
Silver, osmiridium, platinum,
manganese, zinc-lead and copper
ores are also mined, but on a
small scale.
During 1953-54 the total value
of mineral - production was
£1,434,257, including gold valued
at £1,414,265.
There are at present four
companies prospecting for oil
in the Territory. They hold a
tojtal area of about 1650 square
miles in New Guinea and
square miles in Papua under
permit. Nearly £4,000,000 is
expected to be spent by these
companies on oil-prospecting
during the next twelve months.
Approximately £16,000,000 has
been spent on oil-search in the
Territory during ithe last 17
years.
Forestry
There has been a big expan-
sion in production from the
natural timber resources in the
Territory. In 1954-55 a record
production of over 40,000,000
super-feet of logs was cut. Pro-
duction of logs in 1953-54 was
31,620,000 super-feet. In 1954-
55 exports of sawn timber were
estimated at 2,650,000 s.f. com-
pared with 1,564,000 s.f. the
previous year.
The plywood factory operated
at Bulolo by Commonwealth-
New Guinea Timbers, Ltd.,
which opened in January, 1954,
has since produced about 30
rdillion square feet of plywood,
mainly for the United States
market. It is expected that in
future" a greater proportion of
production will be diverted to
the Australian market. The
harvesting of the company’s area
is being followed by Administra-
tion replanting of softwood
forests at the rate of about 500
acres a year.
The Department of Forests


• •
BELtS
100% SCOTCH WHISIUJ*
**STIII£D AND BLEND**'
* 111 SCOTLAND
D, SIILLERS ram* SCOT
ESTABLISHED '
ico**42
CQHTINTS - I pTnt * rlM '
Can you detect
a ‘classic’?
One of life’s little joys lies
in making your own dis-
coveries. Quietly finding
the best./Many a man has
been delighted to come
across Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky. It has a magic
subtlety that only the rare,
the very best whiskies can
achieve. You have only
to open a bottle to appre-
ciate its classic bouquet
and flavour.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCtiTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers,
Perth. Scotland. Established 1825.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
1
Established 1808 in Reign */
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD,
( England )
NJ3.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney*
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Profit by the expansion of the
, ' ■ ■ ■ ' ' / - ,
States Largest Rural
B/ectrieity Undertaking —
NORTHERN RIVERS
POWER LOAN
IS NOW OPEN
Serving 130,000 people on the rich North Coast, the North-
ern Rivers County Council is the largest Local Government
generating and distributing authority in N.S.W. Its 29,000
customers are spread over 8,528 square miles, and include
residents of 13 Shires, 5 Municipalities, and the cities of
Grafton and Lismore. Annual income exceeds £1,000,000,
and backs every investment made in the Loan. In addition,
statutory rating powers offer additional security.
Every investor earns 4f per cent per annum throughout
the term chosen either 10 or 20 years. The Loan is an
Authorised Trustee Investment in New South Wales.
How to make your North Coast Investment 1
Call at the nearest Commonwealth Trading Bank, apply
through your Stockbroker, or at the Council’s offices at
Grafton, Lismore or Coff s Harbour. Time is short
the Loan closes on or before Saturday, 15 th October, 1955.
Issued at par for £300,000 Power Loan No. 76 is under-
written to the extent of £150,000 by Ralph W. King & Yuill,
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange, Sydney and
Grafton.
N.P.L. 2A55
engages in research in forest
botany, reafforestation and
forest-survey work to open up
new areas for timber-
development. It maintains two
sawmills at Keravat and Lae for
research and training purposes
and to provide sawn timber for
the Administration’s building
programme.
Land
Wise land-administration will
contribute a great deal to the
ultimate success of Australian
rule in the Territory, and unwise
land-administration would make
success impossible, Mr. Hasluck
believes.
Land made available for
settlement in recent years has
been as follows:
Area and Type of Land (Acres).
Year. Agricultural. Pastoral. Total.
1950- .. 14,237 14,237
1951- .. 29,417 29,417
1 §52-53 .. 31,809 31,809
1953- .. 20,555 13,106 33,661
1954- .. 18,839 33,238 52,077
Surveys and investigations of
other areas which might prove
to be suitable for settlement are
in progress.
Transport
During 1954-55 the
Shipping, number of vessels
engaged in trading
between Papua and New Guinea
and Australia increased from
seven to nine. In addition,
vessels trading between the
East and Australia frequently
call at Territory ports. About
10 ships pnder charter call
annually to . load copra and
coconut-oil for Europe.
Since the war large
Wharves, sums have been
spent on the con-
struction of wharves in the
Territory. Wharves have been
completed at Lae, Samarai,
Port Moresby, Madang and
Kavieng. The immediate pro-
gramme is to complete the new
wharf at Rabaul, provide cargo-
sheds and ancillary works at
Port Moresby and Kavieng, im-
prove the “hulk” wharf at
Rabaul and extend the main
wharf at Lae.
An additional 249
Roads, miles of roads were
constructed during
1954-55. This brings the total
Territory mileage of roads to
3859, of which 1171 miles have
been constructed in the last five
years. An important bridge
over the Markham River was
opened during the year and a
smaller bridge over the Wahgi
River at Minj.
The Department of District
Services has continued its policy
of constructing new light-traffic
roads in outlying districts using
native labor. Roads are essential
for opening-up the Territory,
and the programme is being
stepped-up at an estimated cost
of £1,500,000 in the next three
years.
Air - transport
Air-transport, continues t o
play a most
important part in development
and administration. Aerodromes
“Could y ’ show me something else? I don't Want t ’
look TOO distinguished .”
and airstrips are being con-
structed as new areas are being
brought under control and de-
veloped, and existing facilities
are being improved.
A striking in-
Co-operatives. crease has
occurred i n
business done by the native
movement in Papua and New
Guinea. Total turnover in-
creased by 55 p.c. in the past
year and amounted to £962,603.
This amount compares with
£62,302 in 1949-50. During
1954-55 16 new co-operative
societies and two new associa-
tions of societies were formed.
Wapet Reflections
Looking back over the past
two years and summarising,
W’A. Petroleum Pty., Ltd.,
reminds us that on September
5, 1953, Wapet’s first exploratory
well, Rough Range No. 1, was
spudded-in at Exmouth Gulf.
Three months later this well
made Australia’s first significant
oil-discovery. By that time.the
total expenditure of the Wapet
venture had reached £1,577,000.
In two years since then the
exploratory programme has ex-
panded to embrace investigation
by modern scientific methods of
permit-areas extending from
Cape Leeuwin in the south to
Derby in the far north; and
inland, in one case, almost to
the N.T. border. By the end of
this year total expenditure is ex-
peeled to have topped £lO
million.
; v The difficult “knife-edge” road
to the crest of Cape Range was a
£50,000 construction-job. Two-
thousand miles of access-tracks
are being pushed into Dampier
Land to , facilitate investigation
of that region by geophysical
methods.
Regular monthly cost of the
Wapet venture currently ranges
from £315,000 to £585,000, a con-
siderable share of which is
accounted for by day-to-day
running-costs of the several inte-
grated exploration programmes
—geological work, seismic, gravi-
metric, air-borne magneto-
meter, structure core-drilling,
and deep exploratory drilling.
Four geological survey-parties
have been in the field continu-
ously for the past 18 months,
travelling thousands of miles —
often cross-country over formid-
able terrain.
However, a. major handicap
in the investigation of many
areas in Western Australia has
been the failure of surface geo-
logical signs to conform with
underground structures. And in
some areas there are virtually no
surface indications, erosion over
thousands of years having effaced
surface rock-outcrops and
buried them under many feet
of featureless sand.
As a result, there has been a
call for seismic work and other
geophysical techniques to
search-out buried structures.
Supplementing the work of the
geological survey-teams, four
gravimeter crews started operat-
ing in 1954 —two in the Canning
and Fitzroy Basins; one each
in the Carnarvon and Perth
Basins. Then, in May this year,
the first of three seismic teams
started operating in the Canning
Basin, in Dampier Land. Now
another seismic team is working
in the Perth Basin near Hill
River, while a third is seeking
to unravel the sub-surface
complexities of the Rough
Range structure. These three
seismic parties alone cost £48,000
a month to maintain in the field.
Soon after the launching of
the seismic programme, an air-
borne-magnetometer survey' of
the Canning Basin commenced.
This survey will ultimately
provide a broad geophysical pic-
ture of some 50,000 square miles
of one of the world’s least-known
regions.
The drilling-rigs have followed
in the footsteps of the geologists
and geophysicists. Not count-
ing a shallow core-drilling pro-
gramme, a dozen exploratory
wells have been completed ; two
major deep exploratory wells are
being drilled currently; and
more are planned. Total depth
of “hole” drilled to date is
something over 64,000 ft.


The Man on the Land...
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve his
Estate for those whom, under his Will, he desires to benefit.
5.V.
r..
*Vw<Of'
v'S
rr*
S'
.i
~y . „
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the interests
of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention.
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
Write for a free explanatory booklet.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F, H. Way (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
x Vice-Chairman)
A. E. Bond J- R- Faviell
F. B. Fleming G. B. Kater
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary: Chief Trust Officers
P. H. Andrews M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.101.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Aiist. Consolidated Industries, Ltd.
TMPORT-RESTRICTIONS should help
rather than hinder the fortunes of this
big, still-expanding and prosperous in-
dustrial organisation, nor are current
credit-restrictions likely to seriously
retard its growth;'which has kept in step
with our expanding post-war economy.
Over the seven years to June 30 last, paid
capital increased by £3,873,609, of which
£789,577 was bonus-scrip and the bal-
ance cash, which brought with r it £933,600
of share-premiums.
To help finance further all-round ex-
pansion, those on the ord. register at
August 28 last were offered 1,393,307
new £1 ords., one for six, at a premium
of 7s. 6d. each, payable 10s. application
October 31, 10s. April 30, 1956, and
7s. 6d. October 31, 1956. Each call in-
cludes 2s. 6d. premium. The new shares
qualify for one-quarter of the total divi-
dend for the year to June 30, 1956.
When all the money is in, paid capital will
be £9,928,145, of which £175,000 carries
a fixed cumulative 9 p.c. p.a., and reserves
will benefit by £522,490 of share-pre-
miums, which make a 12} p.c. div. worth
9.2 p.c. on the new captial. The pref. div,
and 12} p.c. to the ords. will then call for
£1,233,893, or £413,710 less profit than
the board claimed last term, and over
£1,190,223 less than the amount that was
available for distribution. For this and
other reasons the immediate, as well as
the more distant, outlook for shareholders
is encouraging.
The market prices the f.-p. £1 ords. at
505., ex rights (48s. 6d. a year ago), to
return 5 p.c. on a 12} p.c. distribution.
The rights sold at 205., or thereabouts,
making totaL cost, including brokerage,
485., and the return 5.2 p.c. when fully
paid. The well-protected prefs. at 325.
yield 5.6 p.c.- Including the new issue,
net tangible cover is £lOO-odd prefs. and
35sJ Bd. ords.
The group consists of parent (holding
co.) and 37 subsidiaries, which embrace
a score or more different trades, ranging
from manufacture of a wide range of
glass products to fabricated steel, refrac-
tories, plastics, electric-light globes and
general engineering and hardware fines,
etc. Activities extend throughout the
Commonwealth, out "over the Tasman to
New Zealand, and north to Singapore
and Bangkok. Whether the factories at
the two lastnamed centres are yet
contributing to income from abroad
isn’t ascertainable from the / published
accounts.
Last term many new units of plant,
some of which took a long time to con-
struct, came into full production, and a
ready market awaited the increased out-
put, especially for fabricated steel, some
thousands of tons of which were used in
erection of the new hot-strip mill at Port
Kembla, and in new oil-refining and
storage plants. After deducting outside
shareholders’ interests, allowing for de-
preciation (£1,039,330, down £41,176) and
taxation (£1,840,452, up £526,643), and
setting aside £680,000 toward increased
cost of plant-replacement, as well as send-
ing £lOO,OOO to the staff fund, the board
claimed a profit of £1,647,603. Excluding
a capital profit of £3477, but including the
special plant-replacement and staff pro-
visions, the amount available for distri-
bution was £2,424,126 (up £1,240,601):
A.C.I. and Subsidiaries. - )
t Dividends N Nominal
Net Pref. m Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.*
£ £ £ £
’5l 754,078 15,750 9 p.c. = 603,877 5,362,310
Exchange surplus, £l3BO .. .. 5,363,690
Share premiums, £895,620 .. 6,259,310
Profit sale assets, £13,787 .. .. 6,273,097
Unexplained additions, £375,381.. 6,648,478
'52 833,374 15,750 9 p.c. = 644,227 6,821,875
Share premiums, £282,439 .. 7,104,314
Profit sale assets, £5323 .. .. 7,109,637
Unexplained additions, £29,662 .. 7,138,299
'63 991,906 15,750 9 p.(j. = 726,844 7,388,611
Share premiums, £512 .. .. 7,389,123
Profit sale assets, £14,803 .. 7,403,926
From tax reserves, etc., £294,926.. 7,698,852
'54 1,183,525 16,750 10 p.c. = 834,984 8,030,643
Profit sale assets, £3477 .. .. 8,034,120
Unexplained additions, £212,498 8,246,618
'55 2,424,126 15,750 12i p.c. =1,044,980 9,610,014
To staff fund, £lOO,OOO .. .. 9,510,014
* Subject to intangibles, now £2,385,354.
t Deducting outside interests in profits and reserves.
The £2,424,126 covered the pref. div. and
28.8 p.c. on ord. capital as against 13.9,
12.1, 11.4, 11 and 11.8 p.c. back to 1950.
The addition of a 2% p.c. bonus to the
10 p.c. div., making 12} p.c. for the year,
together with pref. requirements, called
for only 43.7 p.c. of the profit earned, or
64.3 p.c. of the profit claimed.
The reason for the heavy special pro-
vision for replacements was the Govern-
ment’s decision (which rests on economic
motives) not to give immediate effect to
the Hulme committee’s recommendations,
which provide equitable solutions to a
number of problems related to depreci-
ation. The co. had to pay taxation total-
ling nearly quarter of a million pounds on
the additional £680,000 it set aside for
depreciation last term. The taxing of
what is really part of capital, as well as
profits, is unsound practice, which con-
tributes to maintenance of a high-costs
structure.
Continued growth of the undertaking is
further reflected in the year’s net addition
of £2,595.841 to total assets, to meet which
the outside debts (including tax provision,
staff fund and final div.) increased by
only £1,094,485:
Consolidated Balance-sheet Figures.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital ~ £8,533,477 £8,534,842 £8,534,842
Outside
interests* .. 84,332 117,993 139,978
Reserves .. 7,388,611 8,030,643 9,510,014
Mortgages .. 311,344 298,890 286,436
Overdraft .. 1,319,464 865,548 348,428
Sundry '
creditors .. 1,584,257 2,719,736 , 3,202,655
Staff fund .. 100,000
Tax provision.. 1,768,371 1,905,878 2,779,821
Final divs. .. 384,605 459,791 626,988
Total . . £21,374,461 £22,933,321 £25,529,162
Freehold .. 3,115,811 3,197,901 3,746,002
Plant, etc. . . 5,444,972 5,613,566 6,358,004
Shares, etc. .. 1,323,935 1,361,796 1,157,817
Stocks . . 6,511,387 6,757,184 7,457,688
Debtors . . 2,189,755 3,864,965 3,965,656
Bonds, cash, etc. 126,357 206,143 4512,864
Inter-co.
balance! ... 265,937 ‘ 44,284 15,777
Intangibles .. 2,396,307 2,387,482 2,385,354
Total .. £21,374,461 £22,933,321 £25,529,162
* Including proportion reserves, t Due to differences
in balance date.
The net additions to freeholds (up
£548,101) and plant (up £744,438) reflect
purchase of a large part of the township,
of Eildon (Vic.), where extensive engineer-
ing works are to be established, erection
of a new plastics factory at Windsor
(N.S.W.), and extensions to plant in
nearly all sections of the undertaking.
The current term has opened with good
trading results, the chairman says, though
the pressure of wage and other costs is
beginning to increase again.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
'THIS robust woolbroking, pastoral-
-*■ finance, merchandising and agency
co. is the largest seller of the staple in
N. S. Wales and third on the fist in
Queensland, and the! business is still
expanding in both States. To help
finance the growth, including purchase of
additional storage accommodation at
Pyrmont (Sydney), and provide further
financial assistance to clients, 250,000 new
£1 ords. were issued, one for four, at a
premium of ss. each in April last. That
lifted paid capital to £1,250,000, which
had the visible support and assistance of
£1,242,720 of reserves at June 30, after
deducting £41,983 of goodwill. So the
two combined need turn in only 6.2 p.c.
to cover p.c. on capital alone,
whereas last term’s profit was 8.2 p.c. on
these funds. Although the premium
makes p.c. worth 10 p.c. on the new
issue, the lower rate is a very satisfactory
return from this class of stock.
Like others in the trade, the co. s earn-
ings fluctuate mainly with the relative
levels of seasons, prices and costs.
Seasons have been fair to good over the
last nine years. Wool prices rocketed to
a disturbing peak in 1950-51, fell sharply
in the following year, then strengthened
moderately and eased steadily over the
two years to June 30 last, when the slip
in value of total sales in N. S. Wales and
Queensland was 15 p.c. and 12.9 p.c.
respectively, compared with the previous
season. Still, the average price per pound
of raw wool for the Australian clip last
season (71.2 Id.) was nearly seven times
greater than the 1938-39 average.
The co.’s own sales of wool and live-
stock compare as follows:
Wool
(Bales). Sheep.* Cattle.*
1953 . . 286,084 338,330 37,292
1954 . . 300,206 384,335 35,664
1955 . . 298,399 319,106 35,604
* Metropolitan angas Sydney and Brisbane only.
Last term prices for sheep and cattle
eased, too. Other contributors to the
pool were sales of station-produce —hides,
sheep-skins, tallow, etc.—merchandise,
including agricultural machinery, and
interest received on a bigger volume of
advances to clients.
Despite the drop in wool prices, easier
livestock values and upward creep in
operating costs, the slip in the co.’s net
earnings was only £6396, or 3 p.c. That
was after allowing £30,108 (up £1708) for
depreciation and something for taxation
and other contingencies:
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
£ £ £• £
1950.. 111,411 10 p.c. = 60,000 51,411 677,845
1951.. 183,927 12J „ „ 99,231 84,696 762,541
Share premiums, £ioo,ooo .. .. 862,541
1952.. 142,959 10 p.c. = 90,000 52,959 915,500
1953.. 175,979 10 „ ~100,000 75,979 991,479
Tax overprovided, £30,000 .. .. 1,021,479
1954.. 211,475 12Jp.c.= 125,000 86,4751,107,954
Share premiums, £62,500 .. ..1,170,454
1955.. 205,079 121p.c.= 132,813 72,266 1,242,720
* After deducting goodwill ( £41,983)..
The £205,079 of profit claimed was 19.2
p.c. on average capital compared with
21.1, 17.5, 15.8, 23.1 and 18.5 p.c. back to
1950. A 2} p.c. bonus was again added
to the 10 p.c. div., making the average
distribution over the last six years 11.2
p.c. as against an average of 7.6 p.c. for
the six years before that.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Capital .. .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,250,000
Reserves .. .. 1,033,462 1,149,937 1,284,703
Overdraft .. 474,513 947,403
Creditors . . 3,067,418 2,624,332 2,904,812
Final div. .. 50,000 75,000 82,813
Total . . £5,140,880 £5,323,782 £6,469,731
Freeholds .. 494,810 723,800 799,510
Plant 114,917 135,684 154,086
Stocks . . .. 366,303 287,590 333,259
Advances, etc. .. 3,435,456 4,126,882 5,133,050
Investments and
cash . . . . 687,411 7,843 7,843
Goodwill .. .. 41,983 41,983 41,983
Total . . £5,140,880 £5,323,782 £6,469,731
* Includes £73,705 application money on new
shares in 1952.
The year’s sharp, growth of £1,006,168 in
advances, etc., was due partly to current
wool transactions unsettled at balancing-
date and partly to a stronger demand
from clients for funds to help meet the
mounting cost of improvements to
properties, etc. The additions to free-
holds (up £75,710) and plant (up £18,402)
mainly reflect purchase of the additional
storage accommodation already men-
tioned. The increase in stocks (up
£45,669) was in step with the growth in
merchandising activity.
The immediate seasonal outlook is
encouraging, and demand for the staple
»is firm, but prices have eased. The
following comparison of average Sydney
greasy prices in pence per lb. for staple
of combing length shows what has
happened:—
Week Closing Week
Ended, Week, Ended,
Quality. 23/9/’65. 1954-55. 24/9/’54.
60’s good .. .. 70d. 86d. 97d.
58’s good .. .. 68.5 d. 85.5 d. 94.5 d.
The drop for 60’s quality is 18.6 p.c.
compared with the closing rates for
1954-55, and 27.8 p.c. compared with
those of a year ago. Comparable ratios
for 58’s quality are 24.8 p.c. and 27.8 p.c.
respectively. At the moment there are
hopeful signs of prices firming around
current levels. The international
economic background, however, is very
fluid.
At 41s. (38s. 6d. a year ago) the co.’s
f.-p. £1 shares return 6.1 p.c. on a p.c.
distribution. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 395. lid.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
Brightest spot in the outlook for
the Metropole, which is one of the
best and most consistent dividend-payers
in the Sydney hotel group, is current and
prospective developments in the neigh-
borhood of the property. The Port Line
is erecting a new 11-storied building
next but one to the hotel in Young-
street. The Qantas building is well
under way in Hunter-street, on alignment
with the new Eliza beth-street extension.
Several large office premises are to be
erected in O’Connell-street. And, when
the Elizabeth-street extension goes
through, the Commonwealth Government
proposes to erect an office block on the
east side to accommodate some 4500
civil servants.
Plans for renovation and alteration and
additions to the co.’s premises are already
in hand. When reconstruction of 50 bed-
rooms in the old wing is complete, 102 of
the co.’s 366 bedrooms will have bath-
rooms attached. The other bedrooms are
to be renovated, and so are all the main
public rooms —winter-garden, dining-
room, Bent-street and Young-street bars,
and the lounge. The estimated'cost of
all this is not stated, but the co. can meet
a substantial part of the outlay from its
own resources, which augurs well for the
net return on capital when all the work
is complete. No hint has been given as
to whether ultimately shareholders might
be asked to assist.
The hotel enjoys an extensive good-
will —of which no account is taken in the
books—built up on service and a
moderate tariff, and has long been a
popular rendezvous for country visitors.
For the 20 years to 1929 shareholders
received a steady 10 p.c., plus special cash
distributions totalling £67,506, followed
by divs. averaging 7.3 p.c. for the 14
more-or-less difficult years to 1943, and
then an average of 11.4 p.c. for the 12
years to the close of last accounts.
And of the £302,412 of paid capital,
£167,402 has been transferred from
reserves. The last £50,402 was handed
out, one for five, in June, 1954. It came
from a special reserve of £53,888, created
by a moderate writing-up of the book-
value of fixed assets, and makes last
term’s 12 J- p.c. distribution worth 15
p.c. on capital as it stood before the
gift. The last previous gift was in 1935.
About halfway through the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts the lifting
of price-controls enabled tariff charges
to be more promptly adjusted to move-
ments in costs, which were moderate. At
the same time patronage in all sections of
the business strengthened, enabling the
board to show £11,083 more profit:
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1952.. 26,843 10 p.c. = 25,201 1,642 111,431
1953.. 32,509 llj „ „ 28,981 3,528 114,909
Revaluation assets, £53,888 .. •• 168,847
Reserves capitalised, £50,402.. .. 118,445
From tax reserve, £9878 .. • • 128,323
1954.. 36,696 lli p.c. = 32,761 3,935 132,258
To renewals reserve, £5OOO .. •• 127,258
1955.. 47,779 12i p.c. = 37,802 9,977 137,235
To renewals reserve, £5OOO .. .. 132,235
* Excludes renewals reserve, £15,000, 30/6/’55.
The £47,779 of profit claimed was written


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Q.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate,
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers :
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Ritters, Steam Valves,
etc.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institution throughout Australia
JACKSOX^
OSULUVA*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watsop Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
letterpress and offset printers
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ELECTRIC
LIFTS
HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. UMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States.
Telegrams: Hydelec,
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co.,
England.
L
i
s
m
m
2$
iM
his future is
ASSURED!
It costs so little to assure your
child's life, and he can continue
the policy
himself
later on.
'rotection
from
Babyhood to
Retirement.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
II
tHE METROPOLITAN BUILDING,
Cnr. Hunter and Bligh SM-. Sydney
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
Fulth in itie
Future
One aspect of post-war American life that has
impressed me here is the zeal with which the
people have entered into their mission to promote
international welfare.
Giving for others has become an accepted part
of their national system.
i In the United States today the average
taxpayer yields his Government the Australian
-equivalent of £288 a year in taxes.
Ten per cent, of that goes to meet the
imposing bill of nearly 4000 million dollars
(£A1800 million) a year that the country is pouring
out in various forms of foreign aid.
That is not all. Throughout the 48 States
there are numerous voluntary channels such as the
Red Cross and CARE (Co-operative for American
Remittances Everywhere), which add another 15
million dollars (£A6,750,000) a year to the grand
total.
, It says much for the American’s generosity of
heart that he continues to support these programmes
of direct giving, as well as subscribing heavily in
taxation.
One outside attitude to this may be: “But
America is wealthy; it can afford to help poorer
countries.”
Surely it is, and it can. But the help the
U.S.A. is giving to needy nations is financed not
only from the pockets of the wealthy, but from
the pay envelopes of miners, clerks and all the
other working people who pay taxes to the
Treasury.
Why do they give so freely of their store?
Because, I believe, they see it as an act of Faith —
Faith in themselves, and in their ability, along
with Britain and other free countries, to give the
lead in building a better world for humanity.
That has become almost a religion with them;
and it is, in its effect, real religion. They do not
look for gratitude. But the, world owes it to
them.
Q
////«sft
mU
U^C9
7
after allowing for depreciation
(£4OOO, up £2000) and taxation
(£26,500, up £5000), and charg-
ing an unspecified amount spent
on renewals, etc., against the
year’s takings. The profit was
15.8 p.c. on capital as against
12.1 p.c. for the previous year,
and the div. was lifted from
111 P-c. to 12i p.c. Of the
£9977 that remained, £5OOO was
earmarked for replacements,
etc., raising total provision
therefor to £15,000.
The next table shows the com-
fortable state of the finances:
. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. . .£302,412 £302,412
Reserves . . . . 132,258 137,235
Renewals reserve .. 10,000 15,000
Creditors .. .. 18,366 19,922
Tax provision .. 21,500 26,634
Final div 22,681 22,681
Total .. .. £507,217
Fixed assets .. .. 308,205 308,547
Stock .. .. 6,349 5,199
Govt, securities, cash,
etc • .. 192,663 210,138
Total .. . . £507,217 £523,884
The outstanding feature there is
the large holding (up £17,475) of
Government securities, etc. —the
etcetera is £6726 of book-debts
and repayments—which means
much in view of the programme"
of capital expenditure ahead,
and tightening of bank and other
credit. All plant and equipment
have been completely written out
of the books, except for taxation
purposes.
The market prices the f.-p. £1
shares at 455. 6d. as against 40s.
a year ago and 345. 12 months
before that. The return at
455. 6d. is a satisfactory 5.9 p.c.
on a 121 P-c. basis. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is 28s. 9d.,
excluding the replacement reserve.
i
Castlemaine, Perkins (Q.)
r pHE mainspring behind the
strong and persistent post-
war expansion of brewery turn-
overs has been rapid growth of
population—2o p.c. in Queens-
land ovdr the last eight years —
coupled with full to over-full
employment at high and rising
wage-rates. To anchor the larger
trading, or most of it, this big
and well-entrenched Brisbane
brewer together with the
Queensland Brewery it enjoys a
lion’s share of trade in the
northern State —has spent a lot
of money (much of which came
from surplus earnings) on buy-
ing up and improving hotel pro-
perties, and on additions to and
modernisation of the brewery.
Such is the form competition
takes, there being no price-cutting
in the trade.
And the latest accounts show
that the process continued on a
substantial scale. For this and
other reasons net earnings, which
have more than doubled over
the last five years, may not have
reached their peak yet. Other
pleasing features are the fine pile
of visible reserves, which were
heaped £135,215 higher than
paid capital at July 31 last, the
disclosure of £400,000 of inner
accumulations during the three
years to the close of accounts in
1952, and the comfortable
amounts by which declared pro-
fits have exceeded dividend pay-
ments of recent years. With two
exceptions (1942 and 1943, when
p.c. was paid) the div. was
kept at 8 p.c. for the 22 years to
1953, with' a 2 p.c. sweetener
added in 1937 and 1939. The rate
was lifted to 10 p.c. in 1954 and
to 12 p.c. last term.
The number of hotels owned
and their locatibn are not dis-
closed, nor are gross profits or
exes. Continued growth of
brewery turnover and better
returns from hotel properties fol-
lowing capital outlay of previous
years were mainly responsible
for the increase of £13,572 in last
term’s trading profit. Statistics
show a 6 p.c. growth (8.5 p.c.
previous year) in Australian out-
put of beer for the 12 months
to June 30 last, while the
forward-creep in costs was less
pronounced:
Re-
July, Profit, r -1 —Dividends—serves.
& £ £
’51..192,141 8 p.c. =120,000 t 0 „, S9Q
Provident fund, £2500 ..J
From inner reserves,
£lOO,OOO 1,034,829
From inner reserves,
’52.. 206,669 8 p.c. =120,000 1 , IlaQafi
Provident fund, £2500 .. f *>;**»>»»*
£lOO,OOO 1,218,998
’53.. 214,011 8 p.c. =120,000 ) , ,„ Q
Provident fundi £2500 . . j i' 310 * 509
’54.-323,067 10 p.c. =150,000 ( , , al n7R
Provident fund, £2500 .. |
’55..336,639 12 p.c. =lBO,OOO {
Provident fund, £2500 .. 5 i- 035 - 31 ®
The £336,639 of profit was
written after allowing £44,835
(up £20,420) for depreciation,
and whatever was considered
necessary for taxation and
other contingencies, provisions
for which are not likely to have
been skimped. The £336,639 was
22.4 p.c. on capital (steady at
£1,500,000 since 1940) as
against 21.5, 14.2, 13.7, 12.8 and
10.1 p.c. back to 1950. So noth-
ing had to be strained when the
cautious board added a 2 p.c.
bonus to the ,10 p.c. div., making
12 p.c. for the year.
The thing which catches the
eye in balance-sheet figures is the
growth of £440,846 in the book-
value of the chief earning
assets —brewery, hotels, etc:
1954. 1955.
Paid capital . . £1,500,000 £1,500,000
Reserves . . .. 1,481,076 1,635,215
Creditors, etc.* .. 823,777 1,007,222'
Final div. .. 90,000 105,000
Total .. .. £3,894,853 £4,247,437
Brewery, hotels, etc. 2,467,368 2,908,214
Stocks . . . . 313,923 352,347
Debtors . . . . 240,555 230,511
Bonds, cash, etc. 873,007 756,365
Total £3,894,853 £4,247,437
* Includes unstated provision for taxation
and contingencies.
To meet the outlay on fixed
assets and carry £38,424 more
stocks, only £183,445 was added
to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., which includes
unstated provision for taxation
and contingencies. The large
holding of bonds and cash
(down £116,642) places the co.
in a strong position in these days
of credit-restriction.
Prepared to wait for further
benefits, the. market prices the
f.-p, 12s. 6d. shares at 335. 6d.
as against 255. two years ago.
The immediate return at 335. 6d.
is 4.4 p.c. on a 12 p.c. distribu-
tion. The investor who looks for
5.6 p.c. on his money counts on
a 15 p.c. div., or other benefits.
The visible net tangible cover is
265. Id.
Zircon Rutile, Ltd.
Earnings and dividends of this
co., which has' been treating
beach-sand at Byron Bay
(N.S.W.) for the last 20 years,
have moved up and down with
the erratic market for its zircon
and rutile concentrates. The div.
dropped from 15 p.c. in 1948 to
5 p.c. for the two following
years, owing to weakening of
American demand. Then, fol-
lowing the outbreak of hostilities
in Korea, demand revived and
prices strengthened, and 15 p.c.
was paid for the three years to
1953, as the following table
shows:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. .r-'-Divs. serves, serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
1952.. 16 19,125 ‘ 7,953 94,724
1953.. 699 15 19,125 2,474 97,198
From tax reserve, £3OlO .. 100,214
Loss.
1954.. 7,324 Nil • 92,890
Unexplained reduction, £1248 91,642
Profit.
1955.. 222 20 25,500 58,722 150,364
* After deducting patent rights, £l.
The loss in 1954, When share-
holders were passed by, was
again due to lack of American
demand, following liquidation
of stocks after the Korean
settlement. As the pressure of
accumulated stocks eased,
demand and price strengthened
again. Meanwhile, develop-
ments in the nuclear energy field,
where hainium-free zirconium is
used in the construction of
reactors, further brightened both
the immediate and less immedi-
ate outlook.
Australian production of con-
centrates for 1954 was rutile
44,417 tons (up 8341 tons) and
zircon 36,512 tons (up 5339 tons).
Last month the Australian f.o.b.
price for rutile was £7O per ton
(minimum 95 p.c. concentrate)
as against £4O a year ago. Over
the same period the figure for
zircon (67 p.c. concentrate) was
fairly steady within the £lO-£l2
bracket. Thus the co. was able
to show a record profit of
£84,222, or 66 p.c. on capital,
and pay a 20 p.c. div. for the
year to June 30 last.
Long-term contracts have been
obtained at prices (unstated)
which should ensure satisfactory
results, the chairman says. Fur-
ther additions to plant are to be
made, and production brought
into line with current demand.
When the books closed current
assets totalled £222,257, of which
£69,891 was stores. Including tax-
provision and final div., current
liabilities amounted to £78,673,
The market sees a bright
future for the undertaking and
prices the f.-p. 10s. shares, which
had dropped as low as 10s. 9d.
during 1954, at 405., to give an
immediate return of only 5 p.c.
on a 20 p.c. div. basis.
Isa Uranium Syndicate,
formed in Adelaide a year or
so ago to join in the hunt for
uranium, is moving cautiously.
It spent £2625 investigating two
uranium prospects in Queens-
land, which weren’t considered
good enough to go ahead with,
and the options have been ter-
minated. At July 30 last there
was £5993 in the kitty. Although
other properties are offering, it
is not proposed to incur further
expenditure until the position in
respect of purchase and treat-
ment of uranium-ore becomes
clearer. It is a sound policy.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The band of enthusiastic committee-
women responsible for the floral decora-
tions at the Lord Mayor’s Ball, held at
the Town Hall on Friday night, did a
splendid job. In the centre of the stage
was a full-size replica of a Cinderella-
coach drawn by four horses on a road
which led to a distant castle set among
banked shrubs and huge sprays of spring-
blossom. The rest of the stage was
massed with azaleas, gay potted peren-
nials, greenery and huge bowls of lilies
and others of rhododendrons and
weigela. In front of the stage a. small
fountain played. Pillars were twined
with ivy-leaves and spring-blossom, and
on the official table rhododendrons and
camellias were scattered, with a miniature
Cinderella-coach in the centre.
The 16 debs, were presented to the
Governor, Sir John Northcott, by the
matron-of-honor, Mrs. C. C. Morgan,
who wore a graceful gown of pink
organza. Before beginning the waltz the
debutantes danced in a line across to
their partners drawn up on the opposite
side of the hall—a most attractive effect.
The Lady Mayoress (Mrs. P. D. Hills)
wore black-coin-spotted light beige and
carried a bouquet of scarlet roses. Mrs.
J. J. Cahill, Wife of the Premier, had her
grey frock appliqued with pink flowers
and rhinestones. Education Minister
R. G. Heffron’s wife wore black lace.
Also at the official table were Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. H. J. Buchanan (she
wearing a formal frock in salmon-pink);
Air-Vice-Marshal A. L. Walters and his
wife (she in a frock of brocaded grey
satin); General and Mrs. Woods (her
junior-navy being striped in white).
Mrs. C. M. Guiney’s forest-green
satins carried sprays heavily encrusted
with gold rhinestones, sequins and pearls.
Margaret Doherty wore blue French
brocade. Mrs. E. Hempton, whose beige
satin gown was appliqued in gold,
hostessed a large party.
V V V
Rarely indeed does one come across
a woman who combines a perpetually
serene air with the invariable appearance
of having just stepped out of a bandbox.
Googie Withers gave a demonstration
of this gift when, after rehearsal, she
appeared at the late-afternoon on-stage
party at the Theatre Royal on Friday.
The party was given by the Firm, • and
was attended by various theatrical per-
sonalities. Googie’s tall grace was admir-
ably served by a large coolie-hat of black
silk-straw. Her slim suit was of /Swiss
cotton in a contemporary design, with
black and brown stripes over white, with
black lapels. Jessica Noad wore with her
flecked grey fitted coat a small black hat.
Googie and husband John McCallum
star in Terence Rattigan’s drama “The
Deep Blue Sea,” which opens at the
Royal next Friday (October 7).
V V V
Women who seek further glory for
their crowning one need no longer
literally have to regard a shampoo as a
pain in the neck. The new beauty-salon
opened by Elizabeth Arden in Elizabeth-
street has made provision for this by
installing specially moulded neck-rests,
the design of a Sydney sculptor. Science
as well as art has been co-opted, for’
another innovation is a “long-range”
dryer on a mobile arm which can be
moved to any part of the room.
The interior decorations—Marion
Hall Best was responsible for them —are
glamor-plus. In the foyer is a Japanese-
type “second ceiling” of hanging glass.
The glass ceiling itself has been
impressed with real butterflies and
autumn leaves, to most artistic effect.
Walls are tinted, citron, delphinium-blue,
deep-fuchsia and white.
# V V
Women painters made quite a brave
showing at the Royal Art Society’s 76th
annual exhibition at the Education De-
partment’s gallery, over a quarter of the
exhibits being theirs. Some —as Joyce
White and Dora Toovey—neatly limned
the rural scene in blues and greens and
browns ; Elsie Dangerfield captured the
bayside atmosphere ; Mary Edwell-Burke
went to the South Seas for the subjects
of her miniatures, and her “Aboriginal
Baby” was red-disked, as was May
Neill’s “Rainy Day, Sydney.” Margaret
Coen’s “Flower Piece” was a striking
arrangement of colors. Betty Miller
went to the roof of Australia for her
subject.
Noted at the late-afternoon cocktail-
party held to celebrate the society’s 75th
anniversary: Philippines Minister Judge
Roberto Regala and Mrs. Regala (she a
tasteful study in black-and-white); Edu-
cation Minister R. G. Heffron ; Technical
Education Director Arthur Denning and
his wife (a snappy little New York-
bought hat to match her black-beaded
nylon-net cocktail-frock); Dr. and Mrs.
Tom Bateman (the latter in black velvet
with a flower-trimmed pale-pink hat);
Mr. Justice Clancy and Mrs. Clancy and
their daughter Margaret; Lady Plow-
man ; doyen of Australian women com-
posers May Brahe ; and the Leon Henrys.
☆ ☆ ☆
It is axiomatic that no party given by
Mr. and Mrs. Carl Lorenz could possibly
be dull, and certainly that on Sunday
night held at their Woollahra home to
celebrate the hostess’s birthday did noth-
ing but add strength to the axiom. The
grounds glowed with fairy-lights, and
there was plenty of brightness inside,
supplied by a host of interesting people.
Naturally, the arts were well repre-
sented, and especially music. This was
dispensed by a number of talented
singers and instrumentalists, among them
Constance Manning (lyric-soprano), Ida
Dozsa (coloratura), Dulcie Bruwel
(mezzo-soprano), Virginia Paris (of
“South Pacific”), Stewart Harvey (bari-
tone), Reg Willoughby (tenor), Edgar
Matthews (violin) and Sava Spas (piano).
Margaret Clancy, who has one of the
leads in “Nightmare Abbey,” the
Genesians’ current production, first
appeared on the stage as Helena in the
Independent’s production of “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream.” Next came
“Top of the Ladder” and “Prunella.”
Daughter of Mr. Justice J. S. Clancy and
Mrs. Clancy, of Lindfield, Margaret was
educated at Loreto, Kirribilli. She fits
her theatrical work into what spare-
time she can wring from studying the
intricacies of design in the five-year art-
course she is taking at East Sydney Tech.
Photo by Noel Rubie.
Hold on to your chair - arms —
the camisole is nearly here on its way
back. Oh, no, it’s not like Grandma’s —
it’s to be worn over, not under, a very
plain dress. It’s to be flat in front and
at the back, with the side-seams split
right to the armholes. Split sides, in
short —probably to match those of the
men who’ll be looking at them. Jacques
Fath thought this one up, “inspired” by
the Peking Opera Company’s visit to
Paris. These cammies are a sort of cross
between the caftan worn by the Turks
and the costumes of Indo-Chinese
women. They’re to be in wool and
printed in a Persian design. It seems
like a United Nations effort.
The Wandering Waistline will continue
its perambulations, according to each
couturier’s ideas, and may be discovered
anywhere between an inch below the
bustline and an inch above the hips.
The restraint exercised by some top
designers in not trying to establish the
waist below the hips is really quite com-
mendable. Hubert de Givenchy recog-
nises this peculiar new law of Nature by
creating a frock that doesn’t touch the
body anywhere except on the shoulders —
#
this latter seems to be a graceful con-
cession to one of the fundamental laws
of physics.
The straight sheath-dress will retain its
place, but the tunic will lead the fashion-
field by a short bust, under the house-
colors of Balenciaga, whose two-piece
ensembles will have long blouses extend-
ing to the knees with fullness at the back ;
this will be caught-in midway between
waist and knee. With these blouses the
skirt will be very slim.
There will be “false” tunics which
look like three-quarter coats with match-
ing skirts but are really one-piece dresses.
You’ll be wearing all these (they hope)
when next the leaves begin to fall. All
wool and —apparently in some cases at
least —a yard wide.
Shadows of coming events:
The Bubbles Committee’s “Never
Never” revel (for the Smith Family) at
the A.C.I. Ballroom next Wednesday
(October 12) at 8 p.m. Dress: either
aboriginal (with an irreducible minimum,
of course!), or something suitable for
steaming around the spinifex or mulga.
Tickets at one-guinea each from Cara
Payne, care Smith Family, 12 Bridge-
street, Sydney (8U4728).
The mannequin parade at the Fergu-
son Memorial Hall in Macquarie-street
tomorrow week (October 13) at 2 p.m.
The Women’s Committee of Scots Col-
lege Parents’ and Friends’ Association is
running it; Mrs. Gordon Powell will
compere. Subscription is 10s., proceeds
for the school’s War Memorial Fund.
Ticket-secretaries are Mrs. P. Roper
(FU9470), Mfs. E. Morrison (FU2416)
and Mrs. R. Snider (FM1358).
* ☆ *
One of fashion’s latest inventions is
a girdle based on the design of a sarong
which by some abstruse engineering feat
can keep in control ( bonelessly, believe it
or not) the curves of those whose vital
statistics go as high as 48-38-48. As
whalebone and allied products have
hitherto seemed inevitably the lot of the
well-upholstered, this should make news.
As for fashion-news —what about those
small colored umbrellas for sale in one
of the big stores which can be attached
to the head by a small band? Are they a
very good idea, or just too funny for
words?
MELBOURNE
To give wives of town and country
members of State Parliament an oppor-
tunity of meeting one another, Mrs.
Henry Bolte (wife of the Premier) and
Mrs. A. G. Warner (wife of the Minister
of Transport) were hostesses at a late-
afternoon party at Mrs. Warner’s home,
Waltham Lodge, Brighton. Huge
branches of white and pink cherry-
blossom were set in the hall, while in the
reception-rooms and on the tables were
bowls of pink and white camellias and
daffodils. Mrs. Bolte received the guests
wearing a navy frock-and-jacket ensemble
in lightweight wool. Mrs. Warner’s
choice was a bouffant frock of black
silk.
Among the guests was the wife of the
Speaker, Mrs. W. J. F. McDonald, who
wore with her black frock a beaded
leaf-shaped cap of azure-blue velvet.
Mrs. A. G. Rylah, the Chief Secretary’s
wife, wore lime-green tweed and a
feather cloche in brighter lime tonings.
A black frock and a high-crowned black
cloche embellished with blue flowers
were worn by Mrs. C. S. Gawith. Mrs.
Sam Loxton (her husband is the former
Test-cricketer) chose brown contrasted
with a pink cloche finished with a black
osprey.
☆ ☆ ☆
To show appreciation of the work done
by members of the planning-committee
in raising £250,000 for the building
appeal, president W. H. Roddick and
members of the board of management of
Prince Henry’s Hospital gave a late-
aftemoon party at the hospital. The
Governor and Lady Brooks were present,
attended by Colonel R. W. Spraggett and
Captain Michael Reyne.
Lady Brooks wore a slim frock of
lightweight black wool and an off-white
melusine petal cloche. Wife of the
hospital’s manager, Mrs. R. L. Thomas,
assisted her husband to receive the
guests ; her full-skirted frock of white
cotton was patterned in a black scroll-
design. Also helping in welcoming the
vice-regal party was Matron Morgan.
Mrs. Maurice Nathan wore a black
silk-braided suit, and ruffles of white silk-
straw fashioned her tiny hat. The presi-
dent of the Central Council of Auxiliaries
(Mrs. W. K. Burnside) wore a brown
velvet frock with black velvet collar and
a small rose-pink straw platter-hat. Mrs.
Jack Horne chose a junior-blue jacket-
suit and small ballibuntal-straw cloche.
☆ ☆ ☆
Some years ago Mrs. H. F. Creswick,
of Toorak, organised a small exhibition
of flower-arrangements at her home to
aid the Rose Day Appeal for Free
Kindergartens. This event has now grown
into what is known as the Yarrien
Flower Arrangement Group, and is
affiliated with the National Floral
Arrangements Society, England. To-
morrow (October 6) from 5.30 p.m. to
8 p.m. there will be a private showing of
the flower-arrangements by 50 exhibitors
at Mrs. Creswick’s home. It will be open
to the public on Friday and Saturday.
The Yarrien Group has brought out an
attractive book on floral-arrangements,
hints on flower-preservation, etc., com-
piled by Mrs. T. O.' M. Edwards and
Mrs. Tom Graham. The book, which
will sell for 4s. (all proceeds will aid the
Rose Day Appeal), would make a
delightful Christmas-present. It may be
obtained by mail-order at 4s. 6d. from
Mrs. T. Graham, 25 Bruce-street, Toorak,
or Mrs. T. O. M. Edwards, 220 Orrong-
road, Toorak.
Judith, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. J. U. Leask, of Camberwell, who
recently announced her engagement to
Captain Michael Reyne, A.D.C. to the
Governor, was educated at the Methodist
Ladies College, and later went into
residence at Janet Clarke Hall at the
University, where she took her B.A.
Then followed a trip overseas which
lasted over three years, during two of
which she worked in the Australian
Embassy in Paris. Judith is at present
doing newspaper work.
Not trusting—and with good judg-
ment —the deceiving sun, which early had
given some fleeting warmth, women race-
goers at the M.R.C.’s “Show Day” meet-
ing at' Caulfield stuck mostly to the
dependable between-season suit. There
was also little anticipation of summer in
the hats —these were mostly close-
fitting, with colors chosen as contrasts
for the suits.
Mrs. Robert Gove, wife of the club’s
chairman, was hostess at a luncheon-
party ; her bluish-grey tweed suit was
flecked with white, her side-swept hat of
colorful feathers. Her guests included
the Lady Mayoress (Mrs. F. P. Selleck),
her black suit topped with a grey-and-
white-spotted pillbox; Mrs. H. E. Bolte,
wife of the Premier, in charcoal-grey
suit and grey organza-swathed felt hat in
grass-green toning; Mme. Le Bas de
Plumetot, whose small hat of white gros-
grain printed with pink roses was not-
able ; Mrs. John Cain, her suit a mixture
of russet-red and black; and Mrs. J.
Reilly, wife of the secretary, who added
a sea-blue cloche to her pewter-grey suit
bound with black velvet.
There were two prominent feathered
caps: one, bright-blue, was worn by
Mrs. A. C. Shortt with a grey suit; the
other was Mrs. J. J. Donnelly’s of pink
and plum, worn with a black-tailored
suit. Lady Clarke’s nut-brown suit was
trimmed with beaver. Mrs. Frank Watts
had a white-veiled toque as contrast for
her ink-blue suit. Mrs. Reg Baillieu
wore a petal-pink loose coat over a black
faille frock. Mrs. Barry West teamed
a grey fur-felt Garbo-hat piped with
white, a grey tweed frock and a red
hip-length jacket. Jane Chirnside’s white
coat-frock was spotted in black, her
pillbox of black velvet.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862,
Head Office: GEORGS AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J, VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
MARCUS CLARK’S
CENTRAL SQUARE, SYDNEY. PHONE 80959
FAMOUS MAKES OF DEPENDABLE
PORTABLE Typewriters
m
KM
REMINGTON, £55/10/-
Deposit, £7. Weekly, 14/-
“Quiet-riter” with exclusive miracle
tab, perfect for typing lists of
names, dates and figiires. New
model with chrome finish.
REMINGTON, £49/10/-
Deposit, £6/10/0. Weekly, 12/6
New model with touch and action
equal in smoothness to any office
typewriter.
©was;
&,
m ~
|Btofe. .
•VWA
OLIVETTI “44”
£54/15/-
Dcposit, £7. Weekly, 13/6.
Personal touch tuning control. All
the features of. a complete type-
writer. In new red-leather carrying #
case.
Olivetti “Lettera 22” £39/15/0.
Unillustrated. Deposit, £5/0/0.
Weekly, 10/-. A superb machine.
ALL TYPEWRITERS IN CARRYING CASES
EMPIRE
“ARISTOCRAT”
£3O
Dep. 75/-.
Weekly, 7/6.
Can be slipped into a
brief case. Choice of
pica or elite styles of
type. In carrying case.
0
sß#!
MAIL OR
PHONE ORDERS
Welcome.
OLYMPIA 5.M.2. £49. Dep. £6/10/-,. Wk. 12/6
Precision built for a lifetime of work. With key-
board margin control. Spring-loaded key top gives
smooth cushion action. Smart carrying case.
OLYMPIA 5.M.3. £55. Dep. £7. Wk. 13/6
With touch control regulator and new style fiflger-
fitted keys. Includes tabulator.
OUTSTANDING Camera Value
“LUXA 6,” Made in Germany
A camera of outstanding appearance and performance.
Takes pictures x 2\”, 3 exposure times, 2 different
apertures. Flash synchron-
ised and with eye viewer.
Easy to operate.
64/-
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATER
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“II Tr ova tore”
With a plot rivalled in
obscurity, complexity and
inanity only by Schickinaeder’s
libretto for Mozart’s “Magic
Flute,” this early opera of
Verdi’s holds its perpetual
appeal because of a rich score
which gives the various princi-
pals ample opportunity for sing-
ing in Jieroic and declamatory
styles — admirably suited to
Italian exponents of bel canto.
It contains two of the 'com-
poser’s most famous duets: The
“Miserere” and “Home To Our
Mountains,” sung respectively
by Elisabetta Barbato and
Umberto Borso and Dora
Minarchi and Borso, and both
sung uncommonly well.
It was the Minarchi’s opera.
As Azucena she dominated
every scene she was in, bored
into the core of the gipsy
character, and gave a classical
rendition of “Stride la Vampa.”
The rest of the cast coasted
through their roles. The chorus
made a fair fist of the big Anvil
number, though how a couple
of tack-hammers could strike
giant-size sparks from an anvil
must remain a mystery.
Hans Hotter
Hans Hotter has been drawing
small houses at Melbourne Town
Hall with a series of song recitals
of a quality seldom equalled and
probably never bettered since
the Muse of Song first visited
the southern city. But if
audience has been in short
supply appreciation hasn’t.
The highlight of Mr. Hotter’s
season was eight items from the
Winter Journey Cycle. They
were sung with a delicacy and
finish which made their sorrow-
ful theme seem infinitely lovely.
“Good Night” was followed
by “The Linden Tree,” “Dream
of Springtime,” “The Post,” “The
Crow,” “The Signpost” and “The
Phantom Sun,” concluding with
the pathetic “Organ Grinder,”
into which Schubert poured all
his own feelings of frustration.
There was a passionate solemnity
about Beethoven’s “In Questa
Tomba.”
*
Bartok
The Bartok Society’s concert
at Sydney Conservatorium suf-
fered from an overdose of
variety. A programme built of
no fewer than 41 separate pieces
might well give the impression
that Bartok was merely a com-
poser of snippets. However, this
was probably hard to avoid at
a chamber-music concert in a
city which, at the moment, owns
no functioning string-quartet.
Muriel Buchanan and Eva
Kelly mercifully played only 14
of The 44 duos for two violins.
They showed rhythmic vitality,
but large doses of unaccom-
panied violin-playing have to be
better than good.
Things looked up with
Gordon Watson’s performance
of the Out-of-Doors Piano Suite,
the related .tonalities of which
gave a more homogeneous effect.
“The Night’s Music” was filled
with the cries of the right kind
of insects and birds —ironical
insects and baleful birds.
Somebody computes that the
Conservatorium piano has had
552 diploma-recitals played on
it; but Mr. Watson easily over-
rode the many handicaps this
instrument offers.
He was later joined by Bela
Dekany and Gabor Reeves for
the violin, clarinet and piano
“Contrasts.” In keeping with
their names, they brought an
idiomatic reading to the work.
G. P.
♦l* *
“Richard of Bordeaux”
In his presentation of “Richard
of Bordeaux” for the Brisbane
Repertory Theatre, Raymond
Menmuir overcame Two major
problems of Australian produc-
tions of historical plays. His
players, for the most part, looked
at ease in their costumes and
they spoke with conviction. And
it was amazing that, in his un-
folding of the pageant, nearly
a dozen changes of scene were
effected without a hitch on such
a small stage.
Gordon Daviot’s account of
the tragedy of King Richard
II is perhaps nearer the facts of
history than Shakspeare’s, yet it
is this commitment —to tell all
with accuracy—that robs several
of the scenes of their dramatic
force. The play, however, a
Gielgud success of the early
1930’5, creaks only in those pas-
sages —such as the meeting in
the council-chamber —where the
author seems to be more
interested in her contemporary
audience than in authentic sup-
port for her central dramatic
figures.
Other scenes, the more per-
sonal ones, show genuine
dramatic quality, particularly
the happy interlude for Richard
and his Queen immediately
before her death. To these
moments, Earle Cross, as
Richard, and Beverley Bates, as
Anne, brought a lyrical quality
that many acting-teams of high
repute might well have envied.
Cross also managed to develop
the character of Richard ad-
mirably, from boyish petulance
and pacifist idealism to adult
instrument of revenge.
Of the large supporting cast,
Arthur Greenfield’s John of
Gaunt and Lew Luton’s Mow-
bray should be commended for
authenticity of bearing their
inflections and gestures seem-
ing to be controlled by a com-
plete understanding of their roles
in relation to the entire chronicle.
“Nightmare Abbey”
Sydney Genesian Theatre
usually favors the drama. This
time it has plumped for “Night-
mare Abbey,” which the pro-
gramme calls “a frolic” on
Peacock’s novel.
In a Peacock novel people
just sit about and talk amusingly.
And that is about all that hap-
pens in the play. Brian Farmer
was full of tragic bluster as
Scythrop, a skit on Shelley.
Margaret Clancy was pretty and
vapid as the skit on Shelley’s
first wife, and Barbara Maxwell
pretty and deep as the skit on
his second.
As the cynical father, who
wishes his son to combine his
passion for poetry with one for
a rich wife, James Scullin was
funny, but a touch more of the
poker-face might sharpen the
humor.
Particularly fine was John
Pooley’s the Hon. Mr. Listless —
too exhausted with doubt as to
what was really the most fashion-
able course to pursue to rise
from his sofa.
Artbursts
Mosman Art Prize
In the ninth annual Mosman
Art Prize Competition W. Hay-
ward Veal took the oils section
with “Noon, Montmartre,
Paris,” and Ronald Fletcher the
watercolors with “No Thorough-
fare” —both admirable selec-
tions. The oil hasn’t much
weight, but the painting is facile
and the impression pleasantly
spontaneous; much the same
applies to Fletcher’s graceful
watercolor.
Tibor R. Binder doesn’t quite
succeed with an ambitious
aboriginal “Mother and Child”;
John Salvana’s “Liverpool
Ranges, Blandford, N.5.W.,”
seems too concerned with a
familiar formula, as do Carl
Plate’s “Noah’s Dove” and
“Flying Dutchman.” Molly G.
Johnson and Albert Rydge show
light Meldrumish impressions ;
and Mollie Flaxman, Elsie
Dangerfield and Phyllis Phillips
use watercolor unaffectedly and
without venturing too far into
the depths.
A little more of spontaneity
and less solemn effort would
help most of the other exhibitors.
Talkies
“The Prodigal” (Sydney St.
James): The parable in the 15th
chapter of Luke has been used
by Hollywood, not so much as
a lesson on profligacy, but as a
vehicle for Lana Turner’s par-
ticular attractions. As the High
Priestess of Astarte around 70
b.c. Miss Turner is so immersed
in the vital business of walking
without wobbling something
that she overlooks the necessity
to act. Edmund Purdom, how-
ever, does try to put some
character into the role of the
Prodigal Son, and his efforts,
combined with those of Francis
L. Sullivan as a sort of go-getter
estate-agent in Damascus, and
Louis Calhern as the city’s
rapacious and vengeful gov-
ernor, save the film from the
depths.


Black night in Collingwood
by John
mo[?]son
MRS. BRADY turned from
the stove and hurriedly
placed a roasting-dish
on the table. “Phew,
that’s hot!”
A rich odor of roast lamb filled
the little kitchen. Mrs. Woods,
in on a neighborly visit from
next door, sniffed appreciatively.
“It smells good.”
“It ought to. I paid plenty foi
it. Fifteen-and-six. You could
buy a whole sheep for that once,
wool and all.”
Mrs. Woods, with an expres-
sion of disapproval, watched
Mrs. Brady baste the sizzling
joint. “I don’t know how you
can be bothered to cook a hot
dinner Saturday night.”
“You’d be bothered all right
if you was in this house. You
wouldn’t get them two blokes
of mine to sit down to this at
twelve-o’clock Saturday. Not
young Jimmy,, anyhow—not in
the football season.”
“I heard he was playing for
Mordialloc again this year. I
thought he was going to turn it
up.”
“That’ll be the day! He’ll
turn it up when he gets his damn’
neck broke, not before.”
“I suppose Pop’s following
Collingwood they’re playing
Footscray, aren’t they?”
“Fair dinkum, I wouldn’t
know if they was playing Dudley
Flats. I’ve had football. I’m
always glad when it’s over. I get
a bit of peace then.’ 4
Mrs. Brady returned the joint
to the oven, glanced at the clock,
and began moving the pots
around on the stove.
Mrs. Woods, for the third
time in half-an-hour, got up to
go. “My God, just look at the
time! That lot of mine’ll be in
any minute.”
Mrs. Brady, just as reluctant
to end the session as was her
friend, promptly came back to
the table and inquired, more
affably, “Going out? ”
“I wish I was. We’ve got
Harry’s folks coming. His old
man’s all right, but you know
how I get on with his old
woman. What’re you doing?”
“Depends on Collingwood.
Joe’s been talking all the week
of going to the flicks, but it'll
be another story if that damn’
football team loses. He gets a
bit full when they win”
“They was leading thirty-two
points to eleven at' half-time.”
“Thank God for that!” Mrs.
Brady, after another glance at
the clock, sat down. Mrs.
Woods also sat down, but on
the extreme edge of the chair,
as if ready for instant departure.
“That Marlon Brando’s on.
I’ve never seen him yet”
They-got talking of pictures.
It was very peaceful. Through
the quiet give and take of the
two gossips the clock ticked
steadily on/ the pots bubbled and
hissed on the stove, and a
muffled voice rose and fell on
a radio in another room.
AN inner door opened and a
young girl came in. She was
wearing a highly-colored floral
dressing-gown and pink mules,
and had her hair set in butterfly-
pins.
“Hello, Mrs. Woods.”
“Hello, Dulcie. I was wonder-
ing who was in there.”
Mrs. Brady was observing her
daughter critically. “How’re you
feeling now?”
“All right. I told you I was all
right. Done my frock?”
“I said I’d do it as soon as I
got the table cleared, if you’ll
stop worrying. He isn’t coming
till after seven, is he?”
“Keep your wool on. I only
asked.” Dulcie rubbed her
mother’s cheek with the back of
her hand and seated herself on
the end of the table.
Mrs. Woods was smiling at
her in the interested, slightly-
envious way of a matron watch-
ing a girl prinking herself up for
an outing.' “Still going with
Bill, love?”
Dulcie smiled back, and
winked. “He’ll do me!”
“Good on you! What’s up
with football this afternoon?”
“Oh, Mum says”
“She come in with a sore
head and a bit of a sniff last
night,” put in Mrs. Brady. “I
told her if she wanted to go out
tonight she could just content
herself in the house for the rest
of the day. It’s no day to be
standing looking at a football-
match.”
Dulcie looked round at the
yellow evening sunlight streaming
in at the window, and winked
again at Mrs. Woods. “They’re
winning, anyway. They had a
nine-points lead at threequarter-
time. Bobby Rose got a beaut
goal in the second quarter.”
“It’ll be about over now.”
Mrs. Woods’s eyes sought the
clock again, and she fairly
jumped off her chair. l’ll
get turfed out! Have a good
time, Dulce. See you tomorrow,
Ruth. You can tell me about
Marlon Brando”
“If Collingwood wins! Ta-ta,
Peg.”
Dulcie, after a bit of chatter
with her mother about what she
was going to wear, went back to
her room —and radio. Mrs.
Brady began to clear a litter of
dishes and cooking-utensils from
the table.,.
Five minutes passed. Then
the wireless suddenly stopped
and the door was flung open.
Dulcie didn’t come in. She just
stood there, looking in at her
mother with an expression of
horrified astonishment, wide-
eyed and open-mouthed.
“Mum! ”
Mrs. Brady faced her in
guarded silence from the other
side of the table. She knew.
“They got beat!”
Mrs. Brady, with a grim face,
picked up the electric iron and
tested it for heat by shooting a
bit of spittle at i^.
“That Trusler got a goal—oh
Mum, Dad’ll have a fit!”
11XE came in at a quarter-past-
six.
He was a big, slow-moving
man, and entered with the weary
“Thank God I’m home!” air of
a workman at the end of a par-
ticularly exhausting day.
Mrs. Woods, seasoned veteran
of a football home, brewed a
pot of tea as soon as she heard
him coming along the side of the
house, and managed to be at the
stove with her back to the door
as it opened. By the time she
turned round it was understood
that he had already looked
towards her, and both were
saved the initial embarrassment
of meeting each other’s eyes. For
the next few minutes she could
study him to her heart’s content;
he wouldn’t look at her.
“By Jeese, it’s cold outside!”
he said as he pulled off his over-
coat and hung it behind the door.
Her lips tightened as she noted
that his voice was deliberately
lowered to hide the rasp in it.
“Get a cup of tea into you
then. I’ve just made it fresh.
And your slippers are there on
the side.”
“That’ll do me, mate. Me'
feet’s like blocks of ice.”
He had his head down now,
and she watched him closely as
he settled into an armchair near
the stove and began unlacing his
boots. She had changed into her
going-out frock, not to save time
later, but just to remind him.
“So we lost,” she said sympa-
thetically as she poured a cup
of tea and placed it at the end
of the table where he could
reach it.
“Lost?” Struggling with his
laces, he repeated the word
thoughtfully, as if it were the clue
to a problem. “Yes, we lost. We
lost all right. Threequarter-
time we had it in the bag, and
we finished up losing. I’m
satisfied now we got the stiffest
side in the League.”
“Dulcie says Bill Twomey got
hurt.”
“Two goals in two kicks, in
about five minutes. Then goes
off hurt. Wouldn’t it! And they
don’t need to talk to me no
more about Jack Collins. Seven
behinds and one goal God
spare me days” In his excite-
ment he raised his voice, and it
immediately cracked. He
coughed in an effort to cover up,
and picked up his cup of tea.
“Anyhow, what’s the use of
worrying you about it—you
wouldn’t understand. We lost,
and that’s all there is to it. Jim
in yet?”
“Not yet. What d’you want to
do—wait for him?”
“We might as well; there’s
no hurry. I’m not particularly
hungry, anyway.”
“There’s a good hot dinner.
You haven’t been going and
getting yourself upset again, have
you?”
His head came up suddenly,
and for the first time they looked
straight at each other. “Now
what d’you suppose I’d be getting
myself upset over?”
“You sound like you’ve been
bawling your head off. You
can hardly speak.”
“Well, that’s all right, ain’t it?
I’ve been to a football-match.
What d’you want me to do —
stand like a stunned duck all
the afternoon?”
“All right,” she said pacifi-
cally, “there’s no need to get
shirty about it. What about a
gargle with aspirin. I’ll mix you
some”-
“Look, Mum, my throat’s all
right. I had a bit of a tickle in
it this morning when I got up. I
might have a cold coming on.”
“If you thought you had a
cold coming on you shouldn’t
have been at a football-match,”
she said incautiously, and turned
quickly to the cupboard so that
she wouldn’t meet the exas-
perated stare the retort was sure
to provoke.
.. . ' 7
x A MINUTE or two passed
f*- while he rolled a cigarette
with great concentration.
Then, in an effort to dispel an
atmosphere which had already
become difficult, she said: “Mrs.
Woods has just gone out. She
was here all the afternoon.”
“Did she say anything about
Geelong?”
“All she said was that Harry’s
still working on the truck. He
thinks he might have it on the
road next weekend.”
He nodded, and silence fell
again.
He was sitting crouched for-
ward with his eyes fixed gloom-
ily on the base of the stove. She
could tell by the speed with
which he was burning-up his
cigarette that he was thinking
furiously, living over again the
last fateful moves of the game,
yearning backwards to that
blessed moment around three-
quarter-time when it had been
in the bag. Observing him
at leisure from the far side of
the table where she stood whip-
ping ap egg, she saw him in-
voluntarily move his head for-
ward, brows knitted, eyes fairly
popping as if he were following
a snake vanishing into the ash-
pan. Then, as if the snake had
suddenly turned and lunged at
him, he drew back, with eyes
tightly shut and face twisted
with horror—Trusler’s goal.
Absurd though it all was, she
couldn’t but feel sorry for him.
“I wish you’d let me mix you
some aspirin, Joe. It would
help to steady your nerves, even
if you haven’t got a cold.”
“Look, Ruth,” he exclaimed
irritably, “I wish you’d leave a
bloke alone. I’m not worrying
nobody, am I?”
. “You’re worrying me. You
shouldn’t be getting yourself
stewed-up like that at your
age. .
“Who’s getting stewed-up?
Stone the crows, I’m just sitting
here having a nice quiet smoke.
I’ve told you before I don’t like
taking them aspirins unless I’ve
got to. They play my guts up.”
“They never did you any harm
that I know of,” she said stub-
bornly. “You’re in no fit state to
be going out like that, anyhow.”
She was going to say something
more, but pulled herself up as
she realised that she had already
conceded precious ground. And
the fact that he let the remark
pass in silence showed that he
was wide awake to it.
She took Dulcie’s frock
through to the girl’s room, and
came back and began laying the
table for the evening meal.
Ten minutes later the son
came in.
They could hear him whistling
all the way up the side of the
house from the front gate.
“Sounds like Mordialloc won,
anyhow,” she remarked cheer-
fully, glad of a chance to break
the long silence.
He just grunted, but raised his
head with a glimmer of interest
as the door opened.
TIM came in with the headlong
** exuberance of youth, heeling
the door behind him and fling-
ing his leather bag into a corner
so that both thumps sounded as
one.
“Hi, there! Why don’t you
come and barrack for a winning
side, Dad?”
His father gave him a sad
smile. His mother, standing
where only Jim could see her,
was making signs to him to be
careful what he said.
He was smartly-dressed, more
as if he were on the point of
going out than just coming in,
and after taking off his hat
and raincoat strode across the
room and stood looking down
at the pans on the stove.
'“How’s dinner, Mum? I’ve
got to be out again in half-an-
hour. Ted’s picking me up in
the city.”
“Aren’t you having a wash?”
“I had a shower at the ground.
Dulcie in?”
“She’s in her room. Give her
a call ' and I’ll dish up right
away. It’s all ready.”
Mrs. Brady brought out the
plates from the oven, and after
going to the passage door and
yelling: on, Dulce, it’s
on the table!” Jim returned to
the side of his father’s chair.
“The old Magpies had a bad
day, Dad.”
Joe nodded wearily. “We
should’ve won. Seen the scores?”
“Yes., They led every quarter
up to the last. What happened
to Bill Twomey?”
“Pulled a muscle in his leg.
He got two goals before the
whistle stopped blowing.”
“What sort of a day did Jack
Collins have?”
Joe pulled himself together.
“One goal and seven behinds!
Work that out for a so-called
star forward! Footscray would
have been better off”
“He’s still a star forward.
You’ve got to give it in that
the best of them have their off-
days.”
“They all have their off-days
when they’re up against Jack
Hamilton!” (
“I wouldn’t say that.” Jim
flinched as his mother gave him
a warning dig in the back, but
finished what he had to say:
“Collins didn’t do too bad
against Hamilton last time they
met. He got eight.”
Joe picked up his tobacco with
the air of a man settling down
to a formidable but not un-
welcome argument. “How many
times have you seen Collins play,
mister?”
“I haven’t seen a game this
season, you know that”
“All right I have. Now
then”
“He gets the goals!”
“Pigs! ”
“Joe!” Mrs. Brady, waiting
for the last few seconds for an
opportunity to break it up, seized
on this just as Dulcie came into
the room. “Can’t you two talk
football without doing your
blocks?” '
Jim gave her a hurt stare,
SONG
Now dawn gets up as blond as
birds,
The lucky man she marries
Will save a fortune on her dress
For wives discard with naked-
ness
A pretty pile of worries.
Just lap her in a spider-web
And never pay the spider;
Though he sits soaping like a
J ew,
He’ll get no more than’s over-
due
On guernseys for Godiva.
At foot she’s ninety Leicester
lambs,
Her soloists are thrushes
Who for a simple song arrange
Quotations from the stock-
exchange
And sing them in the bushes.
But should these rural sophistries
Set men of business yawning,
She’ll kiss her fingers once and
say
Good morning. Till another day
But not before the morning.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for... .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,** to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ...
ADDRESS
•}
12 months £l/16/
6 months j 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or-N.Z.
British Empire .... £2
Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
( Incorporated, in the British Colony of Bony Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BWBI3I (4 lines)
W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
4
*
$
o
tmmmm
#4.
--
■ata
aorv-ya
OQO
iSi
OQQ
oj Q
7XIO
qr- y
U
u
*♦
3
n
mm
ssl
0
s
-—a-- -
*
AVIATION
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
caught the appealing wink, and
shrugged his shoulders.
“Anyway, come and get your
dinners. I want to get washed-
up.” She shot a sharp glance at
Joe. “We’re all going out
tonight.”
“How did you go, Jim? ’
asked Dulcie as they all pulled
chairs up to the table.
“We stoushed ’em, kid, we
stoushed ’em. Mick Ryan was
asking after you.”
Dulcie wrinkled her nose to
indicate how much Mick Ryan
meant to her, and shifted her
attention to her father. She liked
the way he was looking at her
frock.
“All right?” she asked, spread-
ing the skirt and standing where
he could see it.
“You’re not bad, for a
wharfie’s daughter, mate,” he
granted.
She sat down. “Cheer-up,
we’re still in the four.”
“What’s special about that for
Collingwood?”
“We’ve got an easy pro-
gramme left, you know,” put in
Jim.
“We should be lying right up
with Melbourne. A team that
gets beat by the class of football
that was played this after-
noon”—
“Suppose you talk about some-
thing else till dinner’s over?”
suggested Mrs. Brady.
Joe was watching her carve
the joint. “Not too much for
me, Mum*”
She stopped. “What d’you
call too much. There’s only one
slice There. I’ve given you the
outside cut. You like it crisp,
don’t you?”
“Yes. Yes, I like it crisp. But
I told you I’m not hungry. And
only one spud.”
“You was hungry enough last
Saturday when you beat Mel-
bourne.” Then, before he could
reply: “What about peas?”
“I don’t think I’ll have any at
all. Just a bit of meat and a
spud.”
“That damn’ football’ll be the
death of you yet,” she said as she
took the plate to the stove.
Behind her back there was a
swift exchange of glances. Jim
gave his father a conspiratorial
wink and made signs to Dulcie
to start talking. Dulcie showed
the tip of her tongue to her
father.
“Never mind him, Mum! ” she
called out. “He’ll be all right
once he gets out,” and followed
up by pulling a face at him that
said quite plainly, “There, that’ll
cook your goose!”
“I’m not out yet!” he,muttered
defiantly.
THEY began to eat, but it was
1 a far-from-happy meal. Jim
and Dulcie ate heartily, but
hurriedly, with eyes every now
and then seeking the clock. Joe
“picked,” head moodily bowed
over his plate, selecting every
portion with meticulous care,
and looking at it for a moment
before carrying it to his mouth,
as if all the time he wanted to
stop but didn’t dare to.
Mrs. Brady sat bolt upright,
watching his every movement
out of the corners of her eyes,
and disposing of her own food
with a noisy and ostentatious
relish. She’d given up hope, but
if there was to be no pictures
she would, at least, let him see
how she felt about it. Football
wasn’t going to put her off her
food.
Jim and Dulcie carried on
what little conversation there
was, but nothing flowed easily.
It was the talk of people play-
ing for time, the forced incon-
sequential talk of neutrals in the
presence of an imminent
quarrel. They tried in vain to
make it four-cornered, but only
Mrs. Brady came in. This made
matters worse, bfecause she did
so with an exaggerated
enthusiasm that obviously had
no other object than to expose
the silence of Joe.
When meat was finished, and
two bowls, one of stewed fruit
and one of custard, were placed
on the table, everybody was
conscious that another stage had
been reached in a situation that
was rapidly approaching flash-
point. Three pairs of eyes were
on Joe as Mrs. Brady picked up
the serving-spoon.
“What about some apricots?”
“No thanks. I’m set. A cup
of tea’s all I want now.”
“Spare me days, Dad,” ex-
claimed Jim, “how would you
be if you was barracking for
St. Kilda? You’d be down to
flyweight! ”
Joe glared, but before he'could
say anything, Mrs. Brady rallied.
“That’s enough from you, Jim.
You get on with your own
tucker. And for Pete’s sake stop
staring at the clock, Dulcie! He
can come in and wait for you,
can’t he, if you ain’t ready?”
“I was just looking,” said
Dulcie meekly.
“And see you keep inside,
wherever you’re going. Don’t go
running in and out of the night
air.”
“I’ll be all right, Mum.”
“You wouldn’t be wearing
that frock if I’d had my way.
You’d have had something
warmer on of a night like this.”
“I reckon there’s a storm blow-
ing up,” said Jim to his sister.
Mrs. Brady intercepted the
half-concealed smiles, and
frowned. “You was talking of
being in a hurry when you come
in.”
She brewed a pot of tea and
sat down.
“Excuse me,” Joe murmured ;
“me feet’s still freezing.” He
retreated from the table to his
seat at the stove, and the meal
creaked along to a finish.
Everybody gave some indica-
tion of relief when a car tooted
out on the street.
“There’s Bill!” Dulcie got up,
cup in hand, and stood hastily
sippihg the last of her tea.
“Ask him if he’s going towards
the city,” said Jim.
A LITTLE later, after a whirl
of last-minute titivating-up,
and a few perfunctory kisses and
not so perfunctory admonitions,
the youngsters were gone and
Mr. and Mrs. Brady were alone
with their trouble.
Mrs. Brady, with set lips,
began to clear the table. She
worked quickly, and with a cer-
tain intent deliberation as if all
this were just a boring prelude'to
something much more important
to be dqne next. Every now and
then she looked at Joe, sitting
with elbows on knees and face
hidden in his hands.
With the departure of the
children there was nothing now
for either of them, to shelter
behind, and their quarrel, though
not yet spoken, was right out
in the open. Every touch of
pan and dish sounded unneces-
sarily loud. Perhaps it was.
At the end of a difficult five
minutes Joe raised his head and
gave his wife a long offended
stare. She was standing at the
sink, in profile td him, and pre-
tended not to be aware of it. But
when he relaxed into his former
position she seemed to think
that an opportunity had been
missed.
“You don’t have to go out,
you know, if you 1 don’t want to.”
He ignored the remark, and
after a little thoughtful con-
templation of his bow e d
shoulders her expression slowly
changed. She dried her hands
and took down a small bottle
from the mantelpiece. Dropping
three tablets into a tumbler she
watched them dissolve in a little
water, filled up the glass with
milk, stirred the mixture, and
took it to him.
“Here,” she said firmly, “get
that into you.”
He looked up at the glass sus-
piciously. The pressure of his
hands had driven the blood from
his face, making him pale and
haggard.
“Go on,” she said, “drink it
up. Why didn’t you say you
had a headache when you came
in, and be done with it?”
Still looking only at the glass,
he took it from her and swal-
lowed the medicine. “Thanks.”
“And if you take my advice
you’ll get yourself straight into
bed.”
He didn’t answer that, and
nothing more passed between
them while she finished washing-
up and put everything away.
He heard her go into the
bathroom, and followed the
trickle of water, the dropping of
the soap into the rack, and the
familiar rattle of the roller as
she hung up the towel. Then
her footsteps going up the pas-
sage to the bedroom, the moving
about of things on the dressing-
table, and the opening and
closing of the wardrobe-door.
vyHEN, all ready to go out,
she returned to the kitchen,
he hadn’t moved.
“What’s it like now? Has it
eased off at all?”
“I’ll be all right, Mum. You
go out and enjoy yourself.”
“I might as well. There’s no
sense in two of us sitting here
moping.”
“Yes, go on. I’ll hit the cot.”
• “But, mind you, I’m telling
you this, mister” —he kept very
still as her finger prodded the
nearest shoulder “I’m not
cooking no more hot dinners of
a Saturday night. I’ve had it.
Every damn’ Saturday night’s the
same now. You either come in
full of beer and wind if they
win, or full of pains and aches
if they lose. If they lose next
week you can just bring yourself
in a packet of fish and chips,
because”
“Did you say you was going
to the flicks?” he demanded
sharply.
It was what she wanted. “Too
right I am!”
“Then, for God’s sake, woman,
go! Stop talking about it”
“I’m going all right”
He could hear her muttering
all the way down the passage,
and gathered himself for the
bang of the front door.
It shook the house.
She would have been gratified,
though, if she had seen the
despairing look he cast around
the deserted kitchen before
going back to his moody con-
templation of the floor.


! £
o*
JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental Cream
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
■
* :
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
■m*:
"*i
and stops tooth decay BEST!
Every time you brush your teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream, you can actually feel how smooth
and clean they are. Your teeth are whiter . . .
brighter . . . and you are assured of round-the-
clock protection against decay-causing enzymes.
That’s why Colgate Dental Cream is Australia’s largest—
America’s largest—the world’s largest selling dental cream.
Get the family economy size and save up to 1/8.
Tl 9
A
AUGER
you just curry it .wound!
• ; •STfcvM %
urn
B P m
ii
i ‘ 'W
t*& S 9
1 is*
*■■ ■*■ Mf
r 'I
~mm
x> : x ,•■■■: ':
x : .-. . ; x'x-’ : x'x xi-x-:
The MOBILCO 'Junior'
CRAIN AUGER
It's pretty handy you know, to carry a little grain auger to
a bin . . . push one end into the grain and deliver 3 mto
bag, bulk truck or a barrow at 150 bushels per boor.
This miniature auger, with full sized performance, can be
driven by V 2 inch electric drill, V 2 h.p. electric motor, or,
if you are a bit more energetic and money conscious than
the average, by a small crank handle.
If you're using a shovel end a lot of time and
perspiration in handling wheat, oats, rice, corn, small
saw-dust and other small grained bulk material, you re
going to be sorry if you don't look into this new
Mobilco Junior Auger right away. Once you Have
tried it we guarantee you'll keep it right by your side
as the best little labour saver you've come across.
The Junior Auger weighs only 40 lbs. It is 3V2 inches in
diameter, 10 feet long, and it sells at a pocket-sized
price, ready for attachment of your electric
drill or fitted with crank handle and ready for use. Send
an order now for quick delivery and a Junior Auger will
be on its way to you immediately.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN - PHONES: YX1244-5
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC.
WU 1081 (9 LINES) - BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
AGENTS LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
Pieeaninny Playmate
by
John
Graham
FROM the shelter of the old
paper-bark trees on the
high bank overlooking the
river the two boys studied
the open plain with straining
eyes. Their attention had been
caught by something dark out
there, winding in and out through
the long grass like a trail of
ants, coming in slowly toward
the river from the direction of
the desert country.
Sometimes the column seemed
to move and sometimes it
seemed to pause like cattle do
when trailing in to water. But it
was too small for cattle. The
boys knew it was something
else. And only for the afternoon
sunlight on the plain they may
not have noticed it at all, for the
grass was very high there and
the river curved in close to the
low range of hills over which the
column seemed to have i come.
The boys knew, too, that the
strange column would disappear
into the trees by the curve of
the river if they did not soon
find out what it was.
“It’s the musterers, I think,
coming home,” ventured Mark,
the younger of the brothers,
squinting up his face. “They’d
come in that way, wouldn’t they,
Mattie, where the river goes
through the gap?”
Matt did not answer for a
moment. His sharp, wide-set,
brown eyes moved along the
distant column. He had 3een
something like that once before.
And not long afterward his pic-
caninny playmate, Pompey, a
little laughing fellow with a fat,
chubby face, had disappeared.
No one had seen him since. That
was over two years ago now.
Slowly Matt turned to his
brother.
“Oh, yes,” he said quietly,
“they’d come down the river.
But these are coming in to the
river across the plain. Anyhow,
the mustering-camp would be
kicking up a lot of dust.” He
paused, then looked away over
the .plain. “See, Mark, there’s
no dust there.”
Mark knew that, before he
followed his brother’s gaze back
to the plain again. He suddenly
realised it after Matt had
spoken ; only he had not thought
of it. Somehow he didn’t notice
things like Mattie. Mattie didn’t
miss much: he could think
quickly, too.
A warm flush of admiration
swept into his thin, young face
and his blue eyes shone with
delight as he glahced across at
Matt. There was something
about Mattie that always made
you feel good, even when you
were afraid. And he was some-
times, especially when they were
alone in the bush and suddenly
found themselves face to face
with the wandering aborigines.
They were always so fearsome.
But Mattie didn’t mind them.
He would always think of some-
thing to say to them in their
own language. Something funny
that would make them laugh.
It was fun being with Mattie.
“You’re right, Mattie,” he
admitted then. “It’s not the
musterers. It’s not cattle either.
But it’s very small. Then what
is it . . . Mattie?” His voice was
like a whisper in the stillness.
Mattie straightened up. He
looked very big just then. “I
know,” he said quickly, clicking
his fingers and facing his
brother. “Here, let’s slip up this
paper-bark and look!”
So the two boys quickly
climbed the stout paper-bark
just as little Pompey had shown
them years ago. Nestled securely
in a big fork with the cool foliage
above them they gazed out over
the landscape. It was a bigger
world now with the plain much
larger and the hills more distinct
and the curve of the river more
noticeable by the thick trees
along its banks. And there was
that black trail all right. There
was no mistaking it now.
' “It’s them, all right,” whis-
pered Matt, nudging Mark.
Suddenly Mark’s eyes widened
and he took in a deep breath.
“Blacks!”, he exclaimed.
“’Struth! Look at ’em!”
“It’s them, all right,” said
Matt again quite firmly, not lift-
ing his gaze from the filing
column. “That’s the desert
tribe. You can tell by the scouts
in front. They’re big fellas.
Some of them look a bit small
though. Might be the young
men on the first hunt. Wonder
what they want this time?” he
finished vaguely.
“Search me,” muttered Mark,
squeezing a little closer to his
brother. “We ought to tell Dad,”
he suggested suddenly.
nrHE procession still occupied
Matt’s whole attention and
again he did not reply at once
to Mark’s suggestion. It was
disappearing into the timber-line
about a mile upstream and he
wanted to watch it as long as
possible. There was just a
chance he might learn something.
He could read signs: Pompey
had taught'him all that. These
fellows wanted more than tea,
tobacco, flour and sugar this
time. They looked like business
with their scouts fanned out in
front. They certainly weren’t
taking any chances. Besides,
something was jigging round in
Matt’s shrewd ever since
he had recognised what the
column was. He began to
wonder if that something
weren’t worth following up.
Matt musedl He could not
read any sign as the last of the
column lost itself in the trees by
the river. They came well-
prepared and carried their spears
at the ready. They were taking
every precaution, but, of course,
all the tribes did that. But they
gave no visible sign why they
had come. This made Matt more
alert. They were on a secret
mission. They would remain on
the river now until nightfall;
then they would steal softly
down to the blacks’ camp and
put their demands. The station-
blacks feared them.
They feared them just as much
as they feared the Ullewurrus
who sometimes came in from the
salt-water country. They were
so treacherous; and they took
what they wanted. But they
feared them even more, now,
since Pompey had disappeared
so mysteriously. But Matt knew
they wouldn’t touch him. They
had a wholesome respect for the
white man and his kind. He
was going to see what they were
doing up there on the river. He
started to slide down the tree.
Mark came quickly after him.
“Hey, Matt —let’s go home and
tell Dad. He’ll shift them. Come
on ”
“No. Dad’ll only go crook on
us. We’ll sneak up and have a
peep at them.”,
“I reckon we ought to go
home, Mattie,” Mark insisted.
“The station-blacks won’t know
about the tribe and we ought to
wake ’em up.”
“We’ll be home in time to tell
them,” returned Matt, dusting
the shreds of paper-bark from
his khaki trousers. “These fellas
won’t shift until to-night.”
“You reckon, Mattie?”
“I reckon. Come on.”
Mark hesitated. “Seems a
rumpty turn-out to me, goin’
up there spyin’ on ’em. They
might do anything to us.”
Matt turned right round and
grinned at him. “Breezes?” he
asked.
Mark nodded vigorously.
“Properly, Mattie.”
“Coming my way?” prompted
Matt softly, his grin changing
to a smile that crept all over
Mark’s young heart.
Mark smiled back' bravely.
“Goin’ your way, Mattie,” he
said.
Away they went up the pad
that wound through the thick
undergrowth by the river’s edge,
Matt in front and Mark follow-
ing faithfully behind. Quickly
they moved, almost silently, over
the leaf-strewn ground.
The undergrowth thickened as
they went but small patches of
sunlight still lay here and there
across the pad making the
shadows seem blacker than they
really were. Sometimes when
Matt turned sharply to left or
right Mark could see those
shadows ahead ; and sometimes
they moved when the breeze
sprang up from the river so that
Mark could have sworn he saw
black figures creeping toward
them. He could hear the breeze
in the leaves, too, and it was like
the whisper of voices. Mark
glanced quickly around; but
kept close up behind Matt.
The long weary trail kept twist-
ing and turning but Matt kept
steadily on. In the thickest
patches he held the branches
aside so that Mark could squeeze
through. But Mark was feeling
the strain and uncertainty of the
adventure. He was tiring of
having to sneak along in a half-
crouched position through so
much undergrowth. He began
to think they had gone a long
way, perhaps over a mile, when
for no reason at all the whole
place became very still. There
was no sound ; not even a crow
called.
A/TATT stopped. He put his
hand back and touched
Mark.
“Smell it?” he asked.
“Smoke?” said Mark.
Matt stepped back level with
him. “That’s their campfire,”
he whispered. “Not far, now.”
“What’ll we do, Mattie?”
“Keep quiet. I’ll climb this
paper-bark. Should get a good
look, up there. Might see them.
Mustn’t let them spot us, though.
Might spoil everything. 0.K.?”
Mark nodded. Matt began
climbing, and he watched him
step by step until he was away
up among the leaves, squatting
there like a little koala.
It seemed like ages to Mark
that his brother .sat up there.
The back of his neck was start-
ing to ache from standing in the


CHATEAU TANUHDA
NO. 8
l! 11k |AI .iLLLL
Mounted police of the gold escort guard'*
THE GOLD ESCORT
The activities of bushrangers both in Victoria
and N.S.W. in the years following the discovery
of gold in 1851, led to the creation of police
escorts for gold-carrying coaches.
There was another reason : up to 1851, N.S.W. had
few highways. The roads from Sydney to Bathurst,
Goulburn and Maitland were the main thoroughfares
and police patrolled them fairly easily. But the finding
of gold led-to the development of a vast network of
long, devious and often dangerous tracks, leading up
rough hills and through dense scrub to remote gola-
- fields,
c
Police had difficulty in keeping all these roads under
observation. But even the introduction of escorts did
not discourage the more daring bushranging gangs.
Throughout the 1850's, until midway through the
1860's, bushrangers reaped a rich harvest from
, sticking-up gold coaches.
In 1862, for instance, Frank Gardiner and his gang
took about £12,000 in coin and gold-dust from an
escort bound from the Forbes goldfield to the Bathurst
Banks. Ben Hall and his gang robbed 10 mail-coaches
between 1863 and 1865; the "Yass Courier” of
November 19, 1864, said Hall seemed "to have
obtained a lease of the main southern road.”
The situation changed in 1865. On April 12 of that
year, the N.S.W. Legislature passed a Felons’
Apprehension Act, under which bushrangers might be
proclaimed outlaws and killed at sight if they did not
surrender, and all who harboured or aided them
became felons. Armed with these wide powers, police
• broke up the leading bushranging gangs and, by in-
creasing the strength of escorts, restored order to
most of the outback roads.
* Print courtesy of the Mitchell Library.
!
4
i
n
CHATEAU TANUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
Agents in N.S.W.
TUCKER AND COMPANY PTY. LTD. EST. 1838 s
GFB
one position and looking up.
Matt was like a statue except
that his head moved round
slowly now and then. Mark
changed his position and looked
at the ground a moment to ease
the strain on his neck and eyes.
When he looked up again he
picked up a sign from Matt, just
the smallest sign made with his
fingers, as Pompey had shown
them.
Presently Matt gave the sign
again. Mattie could see them.
Then he made another sign:
they were all men and no women.
Where then were the lubras of
the tribe? Now Mattie’s arms
were working. He could see
something else but he would
not give the sign to say what it
was. Mark stood there with his
eyes staring, his mouth open, his
broken tooth showing; and his
heart beating wildly with excite-
ment. What was it Mattie saw
up there?
He wished he could have
climbed up there with Mattie
and not have to wait down here
on the ground. They could have
talked about what they saw in
whispers. It was awful wait-
ing and not being able to see
anything at all. But Mattie knew
best. He would come down
soon now. Again he caught the
faint flavor of smoke on the
breeze coming down the river.
Those fellows must be very close.
What did they have that Mattie
saw?
Then Matt came down the tree
and told him. He had never
seen Mattie so excited before.
He never got excited as a rule:
he was always calm. That’s what
everybody said. But now Matt
was flushed and almost breath-
less. He could not get the words
out quickly enough. “I saw him,
Mark! I saw him! He’s there
—the tribe, they’ve got him!”
“Eh?” said Mark, surprised.
“What, Mattie?”
“Pompey! ”
Mark’s eyes shone. He was
so pleased and excited that he
could only say, “Oh, Mattie!”
“Too right,” muttered Matt.
“That’s where he got to, all
right.” He bit his bottom lip
between his teeth. “Hey, look,
Mark. We’ve got to get him.
We’ve got to get him out of that
tribe; see?”
Mark’s eyes lit up again.
“I’m with you, Mattie,” he said.
Matt reached over and patted
him on the shoulder. “Good
for you,” he said.
Mark grinned broadly. “Gee,
Mattie,” he said, “fancy Pompey
being with the desert tribe. I’m
glad he’s back. Do you think we
can’t get him?” He rubbed his
hands together. “Boy, will this
be fun! ”
Matt’s excitement had died
down: he was once again
shrewd and calm. He thought
those fellows had Pompey. He
always thought that. Aud when
he saw the tribe filing in toward
the river that thought kept jog-
ging round in his head. Now
he was glad he had followed it
up. He only had to get Pompey
out of that tribe of aborigines.
But how?
The lubras! That was it!
They weren’t with the bucks.
Now where were they? Matt
pondered.
He tried to think. Pompey had
told him that when bucks of
the tribe were plundering on a
mission, a secret mission, a bad
mission, they left the lubras
behind on the trail they would
follow back after their plunder-
ing was over! They left them
at some quiet waterhole and
blotted out their tracks with
bushes so cunningly that no one
could track them up. That’s what
they did. That’s what Pompey
told him. A quiet waterhole a
day’s march back!
At a quiet waterhole a day’s
march back that’s where the
lubras were —huddled under the
pandanus-trees by the water,
living on the scanty food left
them by the men; watching the
trail; eagerly awaiting their
return. Matt smiled slyly.
Mark never missed that smile.
It meant the game was afoot.
He had been waiting for it.
“What now, Mattie?” he
prompted.
“Like this,” began Matt
quickly, leaning towards him.
“Now first of all you’ve got to
back me up—doesn’t matter what
I say. Get that? Now when
we get up there among them
. . .” He stopped, looked up,
stood still.
Mark sucked in his breath in
one wild gasp as he saw what
had broken in on Matt’s plan
of action. That was no moving
shadow caused by the breeze in
the undergrowth. It was not a
shadow at all. It was real. It
was huge and dark and sinister.
There on the trail just ahead was
an aborigine!
TTE was the biggest buck the
boys had ever seen. His
whole countenance was brutal.
His hair was wild and tousled
and his black eyes never flick-
ered, watching them like a
snake’s. His war paint and
scars of manhood on hi§ huge
chest, his woomera and spear at
the ready, made him even more
hideous.
The boys watched him fascin-
ated. He seemed to have dropped
there in front of them from
nowhere. They had heard no
sound; they had seen no move-
ment. He was just there when
they looked. Then, as swiftly
and as silently as he had come,
he disappeared ; and not a leaf
rustled to show where he had
gone.
The boys sighed into the
silence.
It was deathly still a moment.
The shock was so great for Mark
that he fancied he could still see
the aborigine standing there. It
was Matt who made the first
move: he knew what the buck
would do now.
“Come on!” he cried, and
started off through the under-
growth as fast as he could.
Mark found himself darting
after him, his heart beating like
fury in his mouth. The branches
swung forward and back, slap-
ping him in the face, making his
progress much harder than
Matt’s. And all around him he
could see that scowling face with
the fearful black eyes!
“Too fast, Mattie,” he panted.
“I can’t keep up!”
“We’ve got to hurry,” Matt
called back through the swing-
ing bushes. “He’ll race like a
hare and give the sign and
they’ll all disappear and take
Pompey with them! We’ve got
to catch them there with
Pompey! ”
Mark knew that was right. If
the big buck could get back to
camp in time enough to raise
the alarm they would get Pom-
pey away at once. They
wouldn’t want him to be seen
here. Then Mattie’s little plan
would fail, whatever it was. They
wouldn’t see their playmate any
more.
The undergrowth thinned-out
to a wide stretch of sand. Up
at the far end, where the brush
grew wild again, they spied the
tribe around a campfire. To the
left, and a little in front of them,
they saw the big buck slither
through the pandanus by the
river like a black snake.
The boys halted. With a cry
the tribe rushed together like a
huge black wave, and without
another sound stood suddenly
still.
Mark gasped.
Matt made up his mind
quickly. “Keep walking!” he
muttered. “Try not to let them
see you’re afraid —and follow
me!” And with that he strode
carelessly up to the camp.
That was bold, too bold, Mark
thought. Something might hap-
pen here. His heart started to
thump in his mouth again. He
could not look anywhere but
straight ahead into those black,
horrible, silent faces. But they
had to go on if Pompey were
to be saved. They just had to
bluff the whole thing out and
pray that Mattie’s scheme would
work. He walked on steadily
close to Matt.
“Chalagee! ” shouted Matt
suddenly then, a word which
meant friend in that country.
“Chalagee! ” repeated Mark
quickly.
The surly, watching band
gave po reply. The boys came
up within twenty yards of them
and halted. Matt looked them
over.
THERE must have been a
hundred —big, fierce, bearded
warriors of the desert-country
with their deadly-looking spears
lying at their feet. They were
good, solid specimens; but not
one of them showed any sign of
friendliness in his shifting, black
eyes.
They had thick, red lips,
squat noses, ridges of bushy
eyebrows, small heavy foreheads
down which the tousled, black
hair hung coated with the dust
of the long day’s march. They
were all dressed in full war-
paint of white ochre; and all
had the hideous scars of man-
hood across their deep chests
jfke long, black worms, one on
top- of the other. Behind them
he could see a small batch of
younger men, not yet grown to
manhood, but looking just as
savage, just as sullen.
Matt couldn’t see Pompey;
and he wondered for a moment
if they had hidden him. He
couldn’t have been mistaken:
he really had seen him. He would
know that curly black head, fat
face, and funny little fat legs
anywhere.
“Chalagee!” he called again,
sparring for time.
“Chalagee!” echoed Mark
obediently.
Again there was no reply.
Matt was surprised. He had
not expected such an angry
silence. Was it because Pompey
was there and they feared the
boys had seen him? Or was it
because the boys had succeeded
in reaching their camp before
their scout could give them warn-
ing? And where was that big
buck now? Matt felt he was
one of the hundred watching him,
but which one he could not tell,
for many of them were much
alike.
But they would talk before
long. Matt’s brain was working
at a furious pace while his sharp,
observant eyes were holding
those of the whole black horde.
He must get Pompey. For one
brief moment a vision came to
him qf Pompey’s mother as he
had seen her two years ago,
wailing her heart out down at
the camp, calling for her little
son. He must not fail the young
lubra. He had to play his last
card now.
“Wha’s matter all-about?” he
asked in pidgin, throwing his
hands out wide in a pleading
gesture, pretending to be hurt
by their silence. “Nobody sawee
my lingo? Nobody mate
belonga me?”
“Me mate,” cried a small,
timid voice at the back, so faintly
that Matt could just hear it.
Matt’s heart jumped. So he
was there? Hidden at the back
by these black rascals!
There was a sudden growl
from the warriors, followed by
a low muttering, and a shuffling
aniongst the younger men at the
back. They looked menacing
just then. They bared their teeth,
their eyes darkened, their bodies
heaved with anger. One picked
up his spears with his toes. Matt
watched them closely.
Realising that the situation
was becoming serious, Matt
hurried on: “Mate,” he said,
addressing Pompey, “you talk
longa all-about. You tellem me
friend. Me got message. That
one Ullewurru tribe from salt-
water country, he go that way.”
He pouted his lips, aboriginal
fashion, toward the distant trail.
A decided change came over
the ljlack horde at the sound of
this dreaded word. Angry ex-
pressions altered suddenly to
surprise and wonder. They mut-
tered, stamped the ground, made
signs to one another. Matt
grinned inwardly.
“Might be this one Ullewurru
hunting. Might be him look
about something. I dunno. Him
bin crossem river low down. He
go that way longa hill.” Again
he gestured back with pouted
lips. “Where all-about bin leavem
lubra? Might be this one Ulle-
wurru find him what you
think?”
Those in front turned,
grunted. Then Pompey came
forward and told them. They
listened. Anxiety showed on
every face. They began to
chatter and shriek all at once.
Some picked up their spears
and woomeras and shook them
angrily.
Matt rattled on. He turned to
Mark. “We saw those niggers,
didn’t we? They were going
that way, weren’t they? You
reckon a big mob?”
Mark rose to the occasion.
“Ooh, plenty big mob,” he said.
Pompey let the tribe have the
full meaning of this conversation.
Matt turned to Pompey. “What
you think? That Ullewurru
killem all-about piccaninny?
Stealem lubra? Might be, eh?”
Pompey passed on the story.
There was sudden commotion
in the whole camp. Some ran
this way, some ran that, all yell-
ing and wailing: “The lubras!
The lubras! Hurry back . . .
hurry back!”
CONFUSION grew. The two
boys looked on as seriously
as they could, scarcely able to
stop themselves from laughing.
And poor, little Pompey stared
wild-eyed all around, still a
much bewildered boy. Warriors
darted here and there with
spears, woomeras, nulla-nullas
and boomerangs and disappeared
into the undergrowth, alarmed
at the message. No one thought
of the little boy they had stolen
for the pure love of stealing.
Presently the place was
deserted save for the three play-
mates. The boys couldn’t hold
themselves any longer: they
burst out laughing. And Pompey
began to laugh too.
“Gee you’re mad, Mattie/’
said Mark. “I didn’t reckon
we’d see home again.”
“Good fun,” laughed Matt.
“Yeah. Ain’t it?” agreed
Pompey, then suddenly became
quite serious. “Hey, what bin
happen?” he asked.
“Tell you by and by,”
replied Matt, pushing him for-
ward. “Come on. Let’s get out
of this. Run! Run! Run!”
“By the crickey I run!”
declared Pompey.
Away they went over the sand,
three little Australians hurrying
home. Behind them the cries of
the warriors echoed and rang all
along the river.
WINTER’S TREE
And yet a tree: iron-work and frame of light,
black lace strung across the moon:
how can it hang there in the night,
a map of death create delight?
Delicate, a tree across the moon.
A black tree nailed across the air
so like a chart, the body’s nerves and veins,
the central tree torn down beyond despair.
O could we see ourselves again
and put on wisdom, losing fear.
In winter’s tree old meanings spring afresh:
leaves and flowers stripped and gone,
the emblems of fulfilment put aside,
descend to winter, fallow and the dark;
the death, the resurrection of its flesh.
O the moon burns in the tree like a sun.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


-
:
i*
<*■
\ ■■
m
m
*Wi> ■
s '
The day Uncle Jack missed Comedy King’s Cup
Ardent race fans though they were, Uncle Jack, Auntie
May and cousin Peter were not among the crowd who
cheered Comedy King to victory in the Melbourne Cup
of 1910. They were otherwise engaged. Which was
not unusual in those days when the motor car could be
as temperamental as a highly-pedigreed filly, and when
suggestions on how to get it J moving were often as
impractical as they were unwelcome.
What a different picture we see to-day. From the
uncertain, ungainly contraption that coughed, spluttered
and sometimes exploded to a halt, the modern motor
vehicle has developed into an efficient, dependable and
comfortable means of business and personal transport.
The change did not come about by chance. Organiza-
tions like General Motors, which were quick to realize
the potential of the horseless carriage, had to call into
play the best engineering brains in the world, invest
vast sums of money, spend long hours on research and
experiment. To-day General Motors-Holden’s is the
biggest automotive business in the Commonwealth and
the only organization producing an all-Australian car.
To bring Australia to this stage of industrial maturity
has involved the establishment and expansion of plants
in five mainland capital cities, the employment of more
than 14,000 people, the expenditure of millions of
pounds on equipment, materials, parts and services—
much of it channelled through more than 3,000
Australian firms and businesses whose growth and
prosperity depend in large measure on the operation
of General Motors-Holden’s
Each year the number of people and industries
directly and indirectly involved in GMH’s overall
operations has grown steadily as the funds used by
GMH in this country have increased, and as expansion
programs have stepped up productivity.
When you think about it you realize just how im-
portant a big business like General Motors-Holden’s
is to our economic structure and how the benefits of its
activities are spread right throughout the Commonwealth.
We have come a long way since Uncle Jack missed
that Cup in 1910. But the road ahead still holds endless
possibilities for all of us.
G 127
. . i a link in the chain of Australia's progress
... a partner in Australia's future
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
• ADELAIDE
• PERTH
DIGESTIVE TROUBLES
COLITIS, DIVERTICULITIS
TAKE CHERBA TABLETS
Specially prepared from an old
proven herbal recipe. F or „
conditions. Postal note for 12/6 will
provide one month’s treatment.
ALLAN MURRAY PTY. LTD.,
26 Chase Road, Tuframurra.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants r
To buy Vols. I and II of Fergu-
son’s Bibliography ' of Australia.
—6172.
Words of old bush-song, “The
Dying Stockman.” —6174.
To buy copy of Art in Arnhem
Land, by Berndt and Elkin; Sexual
Behaviour in West Arnhem Land, by
R. C. Berndt; and Songs of the
Songmen, by W. E. Harney and A. P.
Elkin.—6l7s.
Words of verse “The Rainograph
of Kookaburra Run” beginning: —
Now, Theopliilus Mackelzedek McGee
Had a truly scientific turn of mind.
Was a scholar, too, as anyone could
see,
A simple-hearted person as you’d
find.
He’s what you call a real good-
hearted cove*
Which in other words amounts to
calling him a fool,
And his normal occupation was a
tutor on a station
Where the squatters’ kids could not
go to school.
—6176.
Information Sought
Some information on wood-
swallows ?
Wbod-swallows, formerly termed
swallow-shrikes,, are smallish birds
(little larger than sparrows) that feed
mainly upon flying insects, gathered
either while they are skimming high
in the air or sallying forth from trees.
Of the six species found in Austra-
lia, five are restricted to this country
(the other extends to tropical islands),
and at least two are migrants, arriv-
ing in southern States in mid-spring;
hence they are often termed summer-
birds. Other names are skimmers,
blueys (some have dark-blue backs)
and bush-martins. Noisy flock-birds
for the most part—especially the
migratory white-browed and masked
species—they are essentially graceful,
attractive, and happy-go-lucky, often
flinging their simple bests together
hastily and moving off again
as soon as the young are reared.
Most species weave a few small sticks
and fibre into forks of trees or in
stumps or fences, but the white-
breasted wood-swallow has a strong
fancy for adopting the old nests of
mudlarks, or peewees. Wood-
swallows are not closely related to
house-swallows, nor indeed to any
other birds ; they are placed in a
family of their own ( Artamida ).
* * * *
A recipe for home-made hop-beer?
Assemble 1 lib. brewers’ crystals-
sugar, lOgals. water, 4|oz. hops, 1
pint yeast, a pinch of isinglass, and
a few raisins. Boil water, sugar and
hops for one hour, then strain into
a tub. With a little more water,
boil the hops for half-an-hour and
strain again into tub. Place a piece
of muslin over a funnel, and through
this strain all the liquid into a cask,
Fill with cold water to make lOgals.
in all; add yeast and raisins. Each
day for five days restore sufficient
water to keep the quantity at lOgals.
0n the s j xt h day take a tablespoon
T f the b , eer ’ wa i m dissolv u e “» lt
the isinglass, and add it to the beer
for clea^ing .’ Let stand a few days,
tben bottle. Tub used should be of
wood or clean, unchipped enamel.
Brief history of former French
Premier Mendes-France ? -
Born in Paris on j an . n ; 1907,
Pierre Mendes-Frhnce, a member of
the Radical-Socialist party, has been
a Deputy in the French Parliament
s j nce 1932.. Under-Secretary for the
Treasury in 1938, he was arrested by
the Vichy Government in 1940 but
escaped, and served with the air-
force of the Free French. In 1943-44
he was Finance Minister of the
Provis t io ? al Government; in
1944 he went to Washington and
Bretton Woods as head of the French
fi nan cial mission. He was Minister
G f National Economy, 1944-45; and
Premier from June, 1954, to Feb. 5,
1955, when his Government fell over
his North African policy. He was
responsible - for several beneficial
measures. In his investiture-speech
to the National Assembly on June 17,
1954, he declared he would resign if
he had not obtained a cease-fire in
Indo-China by July 20 (the cease-
fire was' duly arranged by that date,
at the Geneva conference). The
London Nine-Power conference (Sept.-
Oct., 1954) was held while he was
Premier; France agreed there to the
restoration of West German
sovereignty, its entry into Nato, etc.
—factors strengthening Western unity.
As well, Mendes-France is an officer
of the Legion of Honor, and has
published several books on banking
and finance.
Brief Answers
L.M.: Will Ogilvie’s poem “Harry
Morant” appeared in The Bulletin
of March 12, 1947 A.P.R.: Write
John Meredith, Secretary, Australian
Folklore Society, 5 Henry-street,
Lewisham (N.S.W.) V.D.:
Charles Williams by John Heath-
Stubbs, published for the British
Council and the National Book
League by Longmans, Green and
Co., London.... W.H.8.: “Over-
land” is a quarterly Australian liter-
ary, magazine. Subscription, ss.
per annum; obtainable from Box
98a, G.P.0., Melbourne N.M.:
Information from W. C. Perkins,
Australian Representative, Port of
London Authority, 22 Loftus-street,
Sydney P.S.: Write Walter W.
Stone, 64 Young-street, Cremorne
(N.S.W.), for “Collecting Austra-
liana Today,” a paper read by J. A.
Ferguson before the Book Collec-
tors’ Society of Australia, at the
Public Library of N. S. Wales,
Sydney, on May 28, 1954 M.Q.:
Suggest the Writers and Artists’ Year
Book, 1955, published by A. and C.
Black, London, and obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney; price
12s. 9d R.A.V.: The treatments
you have given are very unsatisfac-
tory as they tend to remain in the
ground as poisonous or sticky ele-
ments. There are now many good
hormone-sprays which will do the
work well: these are stocked by
most seedsmen Consult the garden-
adviser at Anthony Hordern &
Sons, Ltd., Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
F.L.: The article on Father Leo
Jjjj" Red^aS”
194^ HE N Te^
Bureau, 41 Macquarie-place Sydney.
. ...R.j.p. : Outline of Law in Aus-
traiia by j ohn Baalman, published by
the Law Book Co. of Australasia,
Pty., Ltd., Sydney; price 25s
M.C.: Call at the Trade Marks and
Designs Sub-Office, Ilea House, 156
Creek-street, Brisbane, where you
may obtain information as to pro-
cedure in making an application for
a patent and the necessary forms of
application. A copy of the Patents
Act 1952-1955 and the Regulations
thereunder may be seen at the Sub-
Office. Drawings are required and
should be prepared as prescribed by
Part 111 of the Third Schedule to
the Patent Regulations; a blueprint
would not be satisfactory.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken ro
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
T.S.: We always shudder at “the
eerie silence of the bush”... .V.W.:
Exclamation-marks don’t make it
dramatic A.R.P.: No tongue
could comfortably get round “shed
a soft, sheltering shade”... .L.G.:
Squawking child soundly smacked
and put to bed in the w.p.b.....
W.M.: Insurance canvasser thrown
down the office-stairs W.S.P.:
Somewhere between hopelessness and
dull mediocrity A.M.J.: Must you
go to American magazines for your
characters and the way they talk?
R.F.: Declined with haste large
and untidy collection of “Smart
Sayings—lllustrated” E.L.: Not
this time, perhaps not next time ; but
keep 0n... .R.D.S., G.W., P. 8., S.C.,
L. and V.J.T.: The season for
spring-poems is now closed till next
year... .A. 8.: Noble sentiments, but
“Australia, it’s up to you” is a dread-
ful refrain D.H.: Purple sunsets,
green lightning, yellow dawns! Out!
S.S.: We had almost dared to
think that the last prospector had
died of j thirst for the last time....
M. : No handout for the philo-
sophical swagman... .J.O’S.: Can’t
use your curate or the lady organist
who took up street-walking H.J.:
We refuse to have our peace dis-
turbed by “Aunt Martha” R.J.J.:
Faint gleam of promise, but you have
a long journey ahead of y0u....
E.N.: “Exactly what is wrong with
these yarns?” Sorry, space is
limited K.M.H.: “Flame”
flickered for a page or two, then
went 0ut....T.F.: “Le Bon Soldat
Anglais” is no bon... .E.P.Q.: It’s
time that old plot was given a
smoking-cap and carpet-slippers....
G.L.: Not for us “The Siren of
Green Frog Hollow” H.E.W.:
You have a remarkable gift for
writing voluminously about nothing.
. ...C.F.A.: Managed to struggle
through it, but that was all N.F.:
Not The Bulletin ; but some tem-
perance paper should jump at it
C. 5.8.: We have a dismal feeling
that now you have started writing
about those King’s Cross eccentrics
there’ll be no stopping you T.L.:
Hero washed ashore from wrecked
yacht, rids the little farm of cattle-
duffers and a mortgage and weds
farmer’s daughter! Out! V.D.:
Half -a - dozen rhetorical questions
don’t make a poem T.J.A.:
Original ! It was old when Sydney
was first settled... .E.N.: Hovered
on the brink for a while, then fell
on the wrong side of the fence
A.C.M.: Would never have guessed
that you “worked on the confounded
enclosure for weeks and weeks”....
P.M.F.: See you again in about ten
years’ time.... R.C.8.: “Some
friends reckoned I wasn’t game to
submit this to you.” You’re game,
all right....K.V.: “Where is my
wandering husband?” He left 252
George-street immediately after his
arrival E.D.D.: We don’t actually
object, to covering-letters, but at least
make them shorter than the yarn.
C.L.G.: Identical prospectors
have been finding identical nuggets
in an identical manner and expiring
of an identical complaint for as long
as we can remember... .K.D.: Won t
have that damsel “snaking her hips
on these premises... .M.R.H.: We
had hoped that we’d never see that
masterpiece again.. . .J.M.: Confine
your “flights of imagination” to auto-
graph-albums... .S.F.H.: Well, to
be “perfectly frank,” it is dreadful.
.., .A.E.R.: Get hold of a style of
your own.


MKBB9!
ill
.
’
A.
Rhine
Maiden,
Golden
Hued
Handle,
£2/10/-
b:
Black
Forest
Hunting
Knife,
£2/5/-
Stag
Hunting
Knife.
Stag-
Horn
Handle.
Tri-
colour.
Etched
Blade.
£2/10/-
’•
■
The Rhine Maiden
and Black Forest are sup-
plied with Metal-Tipped Leather Dress
Sheaths, The Stag with Leather Hunting Sheath.
THE THREE FAMOUS SOLIHGEH HUNTING KNIVES!
FIRST TIME OFFERED IN AUSIRAUA
These unique hand-
forged hunting knives
are made by the re-
nowned craftsmen of
Solingen, Germany, for
discerning sportsmen of
all nations.
The sleek graceful
lines make them collec-
tors items, and their
rugged qyality makes
them a necessary part of
the equipment of every
man who goes into the
bush.
The Rhine Maiden is
a triumph of the sculp-
tor’s art with all the
beauty and balance of
the older Black Forest
knife.
The stag is a com-
pletely new style with
heavy, etched blade and
stag-horn handle tipped ■
with chrome eagles’
head.
Perfect gift for men.
All prices include
registered post. We
guarantee safe
arrival. C.O.D
charges extra.
SWIFT MAIL ORDERS
BOX 7051, G.P.0., SYDNEY
~ - ,
PLEASE SUPPLY
,
i
| FOR WHICH I ENCLOSE £
I NAME
i
| ADDRESS
■
; 283 Elizabeth St., Sydney. PHONE 8M31Q3,
The Commission's Findings Analysed
The Petrov Report
By "EK DUM”
FEW royal commissions
which have sat in Aus-
tralia have been faced
with such difficulties as
beset the path of Mr. Justice
W. F. Langer Owen, of
N. S. Wales, Mr. Justice Roslyn
F. B. Philp, of Queensland, and
Mr. Justice George Coutts
Ligertwood, of South Australia,
when they sat to inquire into
the information given to the
Commonwealth by Vladimir
Mikhailovich Petrov “as to the
conduct of espionage and related
activities in Australia and
matters related to or arising
from that information.”
They were asked to inquire
whether espionage had been
conducted or attempted in Aus-
tralia by the representatives or
agents of the U.S.S.R., and, if
so, by whom and by what
methods. They were called on
to determine “whether any
persons or organisations in Aus-
tralia had communicated in-
formation or documents to any
such agent, unlawfully or to the
prejudice or possible prejudice
of the security or defence of
Australia and whether any per-
son or organisations had aided
or abetted such espionage”;
also, generally, into “the facts
relating to and the circumstances
attending any such espionage or
any such communication of
information or documents.”
They sat from the first in a
glare of limelight, for the defec-
tion of Petrov and the events
surrounding the decision of his
wife to stay in Australia were
about as sensational as could
be conceived. They and their
assisting - counsel, Messrs
W. J. V. Windeyer, Q.C. (a
distinguished soldier, a member
of the Senate of the Sydney
University and of the Council
of the National University),
George Pape (of Melbourne),
and B. B. Riley (of Sydney),
were faced with problems that
do not ordinarily arise before
royal commissions.
In the first place the deficien-
cies of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution made it impossible to
endow the commissioners, since
they did not form a Federal
court, with powers to exact dis-
cipline, punish contempt, and
generally act as each of them
was fully empowered to act in
his own personal jurisdiction
when sitting as a Supreme Court
judge of his own State. All
they could do, either with
counsel or with the public, was
to proceed or not to proceed, to
hear or refuse to hear. Against
rowdyism their only possible
reprisal was to adjourn or order
the offenders out and enforce
their order. Any action against
disorderly conduct was a matter
for the police.
Of this position of weakness
the many and organised enemies
of the commission and those
who feared what it might dis-
cover took every advantage.
They obstructed the proceedings,
insulted and besmirched both the
commissioners and their assist-
ing-counsel and sometimes the
witnesses. All joined in this
sport, from Dr. Evatt down-
wards. So far as the Leader of
the Opposition could manage
while he remained at the Bar-
table it was Rafferty rules, and
the same applied with the
Communist - party representa-
tives, a strong Bar which, con-
sidering the fact that the party
loudly and consistently dis-
avowed its associations with
espionage, defended a remark-
able number of self-designated
innocent and outraged citizens
mentioned by Moscow.
It represented, for instance,
Mr. Rupert Lockwood, who was
proved to have sold a scurrilous
document To the Soviet repre-
sentatives after he had written
it inside the Soviet Embassy at
Canberra, for a consideration of
£3O and some brandy. It de-
fended, de facto, Mr. Walter
Seddon Clayton, which was
curious, since it seemed that Mr.
Clayton had left the party.
With powerful and skilful
forces bent on obstructing at
every turn, with the Leader of
the Opposition determined to
prove that the commission repre-
sented a conspiracy, foul and
forgery-haunted, to strike at
himself and his innocent
Labor Party, it was vital that
there should be as little secrecy
as possible about the proceed-
ings. Every covering-up or
private action was at once seized
on by the interests so clearly
anxious to render the inquiry
futile or prevent its continuing.
Its private sittings were held up
as an evidence of the Fascist
nature of what was going on,
of the alleged wicked conspiracy
that lay behind its appointment
to injure the “innocent Com-
munists,” or the “innocent
Russians” or the “innocent Dr.
Evatt.”
Yet it was necessary to hear
much evidence in private session.
Indeed, in any country where
the public is not so easily swayed
to hysteria and Government
instrumentalities are in better
general repute, the course
followed might have been one
similar to that followed in
Canada, where the royal com-
mission in the Gouzenko affair
sat in camera without attracting
public protest and announced
only its decisions, leaving any
evidence which the public might
hear to come out at the trials
of the Soviet agents which
followed.
Here such a course was im-
possible, but much evidence had
to be heard in private. Some
could not be given in open court
for reasons of Security. Some-
times it was deemed unwise to
hear a witness in open court
because he happened to be
engaged in counter-intelligence
work, and it was not advisable
to disclose his identity.
There were instances in which
the position was delicate because
relations with other countries
made it tactful that evidence
concerning the nationals of that
country should not be published.
There was one case —that j>f the
Deputy Secretary of the Defence
Department —in which the evi-
dence was of so confidential a
nature and so deeply affected
defence that no note was made
of it. It was impossible to hear
the ex-Secretary of the External
Affairs Department or the
Director-General of Security in
public, though some of their
testimony afterwards was
printed.
For what secrecy there was
the commission was assailed.
And it was also assailed, on the
other hand, when it did not
exercise enough secrecy regard-
ing names which had been men-
tioned in Moscow documents.
The Communists and their
helper, the Leader of the
Opposition, made great play
with this aspect of the supposed
“slandering of decent citizens.”
In no phase of the attack was
the liaison so close between Dr.
Evatt and Communist counsel
as in this one, except in that
which sought to asperse the
Security Department as “Secret
This article, the first of three, summarises and comments
on those parts of the Report which tend to explain some of
the violent opposition to the proceedings of the commission.
Police” —the “pimps and per-
verts” of Communist jargon-
horrible creatures engaged in
spying on their fellow-country-
men —of course, for political
purposes. J %
In joining with the Communist
party in its line of attack, Dr.
Evatt always failed to say,
fairmindedly, that the Com-
munists whose side he has
so often taken were the very
same people against whose
designs his own Prime Min-
ister in 1949 had founded
the Security Service. That
to protect the Rocket Range
the Labor Government had
been forced to introduce
special protective legislation the
same year; that of them he
himself, as Attorney-General,
when led firmly to his task by
his alarmed Prime
had declared, in introducing the
bill, that Communist - party
propaganda against the Range
was designed for “a political
and international objective....
for the sole purpose of defeat-
ing the Australian defence policy
in the interests of a foreign
Power.” He cried: “Hands off
the nation’s defences” on that
occasion when in power. He
himself was a party to the
reorganising of Security police.
But when Security was assailed
by the Communists during
the commission hearing “for
the sole purpose of defeat-
ing Australian defence policy”
and to make the way easy for
the espionage of Russia, he was
all with the opponents of that
phase of defence. To under-
stand the full nature of his stand
it is necessary to record that in
the Russian documents which
were brought to Security by
Petrov, the Kremlin had shown
that it had no doubt where it
stood with us, whatever doubt
Australians might be in them-
selves. One of the Russian
documents referred to Australia
precisely as “the enemy.”
Why the Communists
Opposed
The reasons for the Commun-
ist opposition to the commission
became clearer and clearer as
the inquiry wended its way
through nearly 130 solid days
of hearings and arguments,
punctuated by retirements from
the bench to examine secret
Security documents or receive
the testimony of those who
could not be publicly examined.
But the reasons for Dr. Evatt’s
stand were not at first clear —
the reasons for his hysterical
impertinences to the commis-
sioners, his tooth-and-nail fight
against the continuance of the
inquiry, his hand-on’-arm, hail-
fellow-well-met association with
Communist counsel, his charges
of conspiracy, forgery any-
thing which might help to wreck
the commission and irrespective
of whether there was a tittle of
evidence to support his charges.
Yet as the inquiry progressed
the solid mountains, which had
been hidden by the vapors of
abuse and charges, by insult and
allegation, became visible to the
eye. There seemed to be in
the gradual build-up of the evi-
dence quite sufficient to explain
why both the Communists and
Dr. Evatt were anxious to see
the inquiry smashed before the
realities could be brought out.
The facts which were presently
revealed were calculated to
deeply embarrass both these
allies and for the same sort of
interlocked reasons.
Let us take the position of
the Communist party first. To
understand this it is necessary to
look at the basic findings of
the commission. It found that
from 1943 or thereabouts until
at least February, 1953, the
Soviet maintained in Austra-
lia the G.R.U., an Army Intel-
ligence apparatus concerned with
the collection of military inform-
ation ; that it also had an M.V.D.
(Russian Security Department)
apparatus, which was operated
from Moscow and concerned
espionage which was not directly
military the collection of
diplomatic secrets, codes, etc.,'
particularly.
Both these agencies were con-
trolled by a succession of
“residents” with diplomatic
status and immunities operating
from inside the Soviet Embassy
in Canberra.
It found that in June, 1952,
the Kremlin had ordered the
establishment of an underground
“illegal” apparatus, outside the
protection of the Embassy and
diplomatic status, which could
operate secretly in time of war
or emergency.
There was a “time of emer-
gency” then, for the newly
reorganised Security Depart-
ment was making it dangerous
{Continued on page 27)


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL, situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated
Prospectus
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HARRY McDERMOTT late oi 14
Mons Street Bankstown. —TAKE NOTICE
that CORA ESMA MAY McDERMOTT has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2700 of
1955 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 2nd December 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
GILBERT CHARLTON MURDOCH, Soli-
citor, of 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS JOSEPH NEALE late of
21 Lackey Street St. Peters. —TAKE
NOTICE that NAMOI CLAIRE NEALE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 86
of 1955 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and is asking for the exer-
cise of the Court’s discretion under S. 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899-1954 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by sth December 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
B. J. MACREE & CO., Solicitors, of 129
Phillip .Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR GLEN JENKINS late of
Cunnamulla (near in the
State of Queensland Drover. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARY JENKINS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1981 "of
1955 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 12th day of De-
cember 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from S. D.
RATNER, Solicitor,s 56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JOHN PERCY LA HAY late of 11
Watson Street Islington.—TAKE NOTICE
that BARBARA LA HAY has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2049 of 1955 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
sth December 1955 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
KEVIN ELLIS & PRICE, Solicitors, of
Challis House, 10 Martin Place, Sydney,
or frbm H. V. HARRIS WHEELER &
WILLIAMS, Solicitors, of Comer Bolton
& King Streets, Newcastle.—iJ. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ROBERT COOKE late of Balgowlah.
—TAKE NOTICE that KATHLEEN
AGNES COOKE has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 2884 of 1955 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 25th day of
November 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition free of charge from JOHN D.
NORTON, Solicitor, 393 George Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Regialrar.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOU SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM
winner of the first two-year-old
event, the Maribyrnong Stakes
for fillies furlongs), is a,
daughter of Kia-Ora stud’s
Brimstone (imp.) and Speedy
Duchess (a half-sister to the well
performed True Course) by Le
Grand Due (imp.) from Uruna-
long by Magpie (imp.). High
Socks, 2-to-l winner of the First
Maribyrnong Stakes for colts
and geldings, is a High Peak
(imp.) colt from Tifatina, an
imported mare by Precipitation
from Dark Diana by Barham.
On his English pedigree he could
later prove a staying type. The
colt was bred at H. C. Nitschke’s
stud, The Nook, Nagambie
(Vic.).
Updraught, winner of the
Second Maribyrnong Stakes for
colts and geldings, went to the
post at even money and scored
by half a dozen lengths. Raced
by his breeder, M. L. Baillieu,
the gelding is by Empyrean
(imp.) from Alaminta, a winner
at Caulfield, by Law Maker
(imp.) from El Alamein by
Caithness (imp.) from Marietta
Caranna simply toyed with
his opponents in the Derby on
the opening day of the current
A.J.C. Spring Meeting. Form
pointed strongly to Caranna
winning the classic, and jockey
A. Mulley was taking things
quietly as the finishing-line was
crossed.
A. E. and G. W. Cobcroft,
breeders and owners of Caranna,
received a cheque for £7950 as
their share of the stakemoney,
and the colt looks like adding
the major portion of the V.R.C.
Derby prize (£7000) to his
account later this month.
J. Thompson is a dabster at
getting a horse from Starting-
gates, and this played a major
part in Rumleigh’s success in
the A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate. Rum-
leigh, the only gelding in the
field, drew the outside (10), but
Thompson jumped him out a
couple of lengths clear, crossed
to the rails and made the race
a procession. Rumleigh was
doing just as well as hot favorite
Starover at the finish, but
Thompson’s winning of the
start was what won the race.
Starover was a little tardy from
the gates, but he had his chance
afterwards. Rumleigh is another
of the Newtown Wonders, and
is from Lady Game by Duke
John (imp.) from Mildew (imp.)
by Mannamead.
On paper, New Zealander
Somerset Fair looked next-door
to a certainty for the A.J.C.
George Main Stakes, and some
“buy-money” backers laid as
much as 3to 1 on him. Somer-
set Fair and Prince Cortauld
raced together over the final
stages, giving outsider Prince
Morvi last and winning run.
Prince Morvi had won the All-
Aged Stakes (w.f.a.) in the
autumn and he was capably
handled by W. Cook. Both
winner and runner-up are in M.
McCarten’s stable, but Prince
Cortauld was assessed a 3-to-l
chance, while the winner started
at 14 to 1.
As a two-year-old Lindbergh
carried all before him, winning
the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
and the Champagne Stakes. Now
a four-year-old, he had an easy
task in the A.J.C. Shorts. Trainer
H. Darwon has been patient with
him: it was Lindbergh’s first
success for about 18 months.
Pictawin, the Queensland filly
who gathered in last Saturday’s
Kia-Ora Handicap at Randwick,
had won a couple of races before
leaving Brisbane, and she could
quickly add further to her wins.
A grey, she is daughter of
Pherozshah (imp.) and Miss
Broiefort and was bought at the
New Zealand yearling-sales in
January, 1954, for 350 guineas.
She is from the same family as
top-class N.Z. filly Wandering
Ways. Her trainer, W. Douglas,
went close to landing another
race the same afternoon, as
Bernwood, after looking all-over
a winner, was narrowly beaten
by Devil Dancer in the final
event, the Kensington Handicap.
At Flemington last Saturday
there were three races for the
juveniles. Burette, favorite and
“Is this where they're getting ’em?”
by Gilt Edge. He’s thus bred
for speed.
In the Turnbull Stakes (l|m.)
New Zealander Redcraze had an
easy win, due in part to his
Dominion jockey, V. Sellars,
proving a master of tactics in
riding at weight-for-age. Beaten
in the event, Rising Fast is get-
ting closer to a win, but he will
need to be a super galloper in
this, his sixth year, to collect
either of the two Cups with
9.10.
New Zealand filly Summersette
improved on prior form to win
at Flemington the mile Edward
Manifold Stakes for three-year-
old fillies. She made another
winner for N.Z'. horseman V.
Sellars. Sydney filly Penarth, an
outsider, was second, but the
warm favorite Arbolado missed
a place.
The £3OOO Craven Plate is
the highlight of Randwick’s
third - day programme (this
afternoon, Wednesday). - This
10-furlongs event is the richest
w.f.a. race on the A.J.C.’s list.
Other interesting events will be
the Canonbury Stakes for two-
year-old colts and geldings,
winners excepted, and the Flight
Stakes for three-year-old fillies.
The latter race is named after
Australia’s greatest winning
mare. Flight’s 24 successes and
minor placings were worth
£30,627. She was raced by Brian
Crowley, a member of the
A.J.C. committee.
Over the past 15 years Hydro-
gen, Flight and Beau Vite all
won the Craven Plate twice.
Phar Lap had three wins, first
in 1929 as a three-year-old with
7.8, when Bill Duncan had the
mount. Jim Pike was the
jockey on the other occasions.
Chatham also had three suc-
cesses, 1932-’33-’34. Pike won
on Chatham in 1933. Later
(1935) Pike also won this event
on Peter Pan. Beau Vite in 1941
ran the distance in 2.1 f, fastest
time for the race.
The A.J.C.’s £6OOO Metropoli-
tan Handicap looks like develop-
ing into a most open event at
time of writing, with little be-
tween Ray Ribbon, Port Arthur,
Toparoa, Advocate and Electro.
It should draw a big crowd to
Randwick on Saturday for the
wind-up of this four-days meet-
ing. Weather was unfavorable
for the opening day and attend-
ance suffered. It was 46,000,
down 10,000 on the correspond-
ing day of 1954.
For the Metropolitan: Ray
Ribbon, 1 ; Port Arthur, 2;
Electro, 3.
W. Cook has won the Metro-
politan on Feminist, Count
Cyrano and Carioca, the best
record of present-day horsemen.
J. O’Sullivan has had two wins
(Regal Son and Sir Regent), as
has N. McGrowdie (Nightbeam
and Murray Stream). Mc-
Growdie is at home in long
races, and this time he has the
mount on Ray Ribbon. Fastest
time for the Metrop., 2.41£, is
the Randwick record for
Im. sf.
Owners and trainers of horses
engaged in the Metropolitan are
not happy over the early final
acceptance for that important
long race. They were taken last
Thursday. It is felt that final
Metrop. acceptance could be
made when forfeits are declared
for the third day’s racing, which
is five days before the second
leg of the double is decided.
After all, Melbourne Cup final
forfeits are not taken until five
days before that race.
Though 23 three-year-olds
have won the Melbourne Cup,
it is 14 years since one of that
age—Skipton—landed the two-
miler. Caranna, winner of the
A.J.C. Derby, is not in the Cup,
but his stablemate and Derby
runner-up, Gay Ranick, is still
in the race, and with 6.11 he
could be a show. On A.J.C.
Derby running he doesn’t look
like reversing the positions in the
V.R.C. Derby, but another good
run in that mile-and-a-half
would bring him right into
calculations for the Cup. From
the breeding angle he should
have no trouble in staying two
miles. His sire, Blank (imp.),
won in England to 2| miles,
while on the dam’s side he is
related to Speciality, winner of
the A.J.C. Doncaster Handicap
and the Metropolitan about 30
years ago. ,
* * *
Commencing on Friday night,
the big trotting Spring Carnival
at Harold Park. Qualifying
divisions of the £2500 Spring
Handicap are run on the first
two nights, the final on the last
night with the £5OOO Spring Cup.
Five other races of £lOOO are
run over the three nights: a
Trotters’ Cup and Trotters’
Free-for-All, a Flying Mile and
Free-for-All, as warm-ups for
the Cup horses, and a Four-
year-old Stakes.
Westralian trainer S. Wood-
worth has his eye on some of
Sydney’s big prizemoney; he
has Dillon Grattan set for the
Cup, Marine Dealer in the
Handicap, and a couple of
three-year-olds who could take
a hand in the Derby later on in
the season. Marine Dealer
reached the final of last year’s
Sydney Derby, but he appeared
to have trained-off for the event.
Back in his home State he’s
shown solid form as a four-
year-old, winning at his last two
starts by as far as his driver
wished. Over the lfm. 156yds.
of his last outing he ran a mile-
gait of 2. lli on the bit. From
the front line in the Spring
Handicap, he’ll take a ton of
running down. A less colorful
pacer from the West, Robert
Sheen arrives on . the boat with
Marine Dealer. This fellow,
though hard to train, has an
abundance of speed and could
cause the Handicap upset.
The Coogee and Bronte Han-
dicaps on last Friday’s pro-
gramme at Harold Park were
handy form-guides. In the 2.15-
class Coogee, Blue Gamble
unwound a good sprint over
the last three furlongs to
take the event from Flexible
and Strathfield Jack. The
winner’s run proved he’s
back to his best; Flexible, with
the break at the Leger, was not
convincing; Strathfield Jack
was sound from 48yds.; but the
one to watch is the horse
checked and knocked out of it
with a lap to go—Mahommed.
The Bronte Handicap saw the
return to form of the Victorian
mare Explicit. She was bril-
liant as a two-year-old, winning
N.SW. and Victorian Sapling
Stakes, not as good as a three-
year-61d, and to Friday night
showed nothing to recommend
her as a four-year-old. She
came from the ruck in the
Bronte, a long way from the
leaders, ran three wide at a
sizzling pace, and downed two
good ones—Merry Bar and
Regal Gold —right on the post.
She also goes from the front
mark in the Spring Handicap,
and on that run she’ll give it a
shake.
Delvyn Ringer, of the proved
Raider-Attain line, went out five-
to-two-on favorite in the Three-
year-old Stakes on his form at
shows and provincials. He lost
a little ground at the start,
moved fast three wide, but was
blowing hard in fourth place—
a long way from the placed
horses—at the end. Following
her win in the last three-year-
old event at headquarters, High-
land Jan ran a bad race at
Menangle. On Friday she
jumped in behind the leaders,
let them play cut-throat, then
pounced on them in the straight
for a nice win. She’s by High-
land Fling out of a Raider mare,
Battle Raid. She was bred at
Richmond (N.S.W.) by W. Rose,
and is the best of the Highland
Flings born here.
+ +
Port Adelaide won the 1954
Aussie Rules league football
premiership by a bare three
points, 11.13-10.16, from West
Adelaide. On Saturday Port took
out the 1955 premiership, by a
much handier margin, 15.11-5.8,
from Norwood. Port had a few
goals posted before Norwood
scored, and not till the third
quarter did the latter begin to
catch up. Port, however, led
7.6-4.7 at threequarter-time, and
then really clapped on the pace,
to put on 8.5 to 1.1 in the last
spell.
* * *
Main achievement worth
chronicling about the fifth Soc-
cer Test between Australia and
South Africa at Newcastle —
Australia’s scoring of its one and
only goal of the series, as against
23 in all netted by the Spring-
boks. S’Africa, which won all
five Tests, won this last one 4-1.
* * *
Victorian riders won three
recently-held professional road-
cycling classics. The 760-mile
Bourke-Sydney race was won
by Murray French in 37hr.
25min. 53sec., with veteran
Sydney rider Ossie Cowan
second in 37.33.1. French took
the first stage, was among the
leaders all the way and won
through consistent riding over
all types of roads. The three-
day 400-mile tour of S.A. was
won, for the second successive
year, by Hec Sutherland in 20hr.
17min. 31sec., smin. 37sec. ahead
of another Victorian, Eddie
Smith. Sutherland’s brilliant
sprinting in the stage-finishes
gave him the edge on a strong
field. Smith then won the
Warrnambool-Melbourne race
from scratch in race-record time,
6hr. 4min. 55sec.


:
CLOTHES
The road to success •. •
... is paved with good grooming. You get ahead when
you’re neatly, smartly dressed. And you’ll get ahead
faster in one of Stamina’s new Single Breasted Suits.
Smoothly fashioned to give you that trim, casually well-
dressed appearance which is the hallmark of expert cutting.
Stamina Single Breasted Suits cost less, last logger, and
stay unwrinkled all day long.
ASK FOR
Stamina
s Wuitr
FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
521.113
TAILORED
for the Embassy to participate
directly and openly any longer
in espionage.
The G.R.U.—Russian Army
Intelligence—went its own way ;
but the Russian Security and
Political Intelligence Service
spread its net wider. To be suc-
cessful it had to compile dossiers
on Australians, to suborn them,
to develop pressures on them
which might be used to ensnare
or lead into the work of sub-
version and spying.
The Moscow centre’s work
was found to be the “selection of
suitable persons to be introduced
into Australia for espionage
work, particularly as part of the
illegal underground apparatus
which was to operate in war
or emergency.”
Another task was to spy and
report on Australians with the
help of Australians. Another
was to honeycomb Government
departments and pass out in-
formation. But whatever the
particular purpose to which the
M.V.D. representatives directed
their attention there was a
common factor. As the com-
missioners put it in their
report:
It is probably true to say that no
espionage service can operate effec-
tively in a foreign country without
the assistance—witting or unwitting
—of citizens of that country. It is
certainly true of Soviet . espionage
organisations so far as their opera-
tions have been disclosed in the
course of our inquiry.
Much of the espionage method
used in Australia, they declared,
was “not novel.” It “was and
is conditioned here by a pool
of persons who more or less
subscribe to the doctrines of
Communism.” The general con-
ditions applied to a variety of
operations which were each part
of the cold war —“the use of
such weapons as propaganda,
the fomenting of industrial,
political, social and moral unrest
and espionage”; but they
emphasised that the inquiry was
concerned with espionage only.
And in that there was enough
involved for the Communists to
have reason to be very eager
not to allow the inquiry to pro-
ceed, if violence, disorder,
slander or the swaying of public
opinion of use of the bullying
powers of organised masses of
Communist-hypnotised workers
could prevent it.
The cold war, the commis-
sioners pointed out in their
report, “greatly favors the Soviet,
since weapons employed by it
are peculiarly potent in its
hands. The very freedoms we
have acquired after centuries
of struggle make us vulnerable
to such weapons.” And it is
this freedom of thought and
action which results in the
Soviet “having in Australia, as
in other Western countries, an
auxiliary force composed of
Communists and like-minded
persons, some of whom are
ready and willing to further the
Soviet cause, some even to the
point of the destruction of Aus-
tralian sovereignty. The Com-
munist party supplies the funda-
mental organisation for this
force.”
It pretends, of course, the
report goes on, “to be merely
an Australian political party, but
there is evidence before us that
some at least of the strings
which activate it are held in
Moscow.”
Quite apart from the known
party-member, it was written,
the Soviet’s auxiliary force for
use in the cold war “comprises
some persons whose role it is to
conceal their Communist affilia-
tions and sympathies and to
operate in the guise of loyal
Australian citizens. This class
provides the most dangerous
pool of helpers in fifth-columns
and espionage-work, and it is
amongst this class that the
Moscow centre usually looks
for aid”:— -
Many functionaries of the Com-
munist party of Australia gave evi-
dence before us. They were at great
pains to endeavor to persuade us
that the party—as a party—would
not countenance, let alone assist.
Soviet espionage here. Likewise,
they asserted, but failed to convince
us, that such organisations as the
Eureka Youth League are not Com-
munist-party fronts.
The truth of these matters was
not, of course, possible to prove
by direct evidence, because the
functionaries who came before
the commission asserted man-
fully, with their claque in the
gallery often finding it difficult
to conceal their cynical grins,
that the party had no bank-
account and kept no records —
no list of its acknowledged
thousands of members, no min-
utes of meetings or resolutions
recorded, not even a simple
record of receipts and
expenditures.
The commissioners reported:
We do not believe them, since
without some such record, such an
organisation could not operate.
Some of the reasons for this secrecy
are clear. Membership-records pro-
duced might discover the “under-
cover” member. Financial records,
if produced, would enable the test-
ing of the truth or falsity of the
assertion of party functionaries that
the party’s expenditure is met en-
tirely by its local contributors.
Whether the party —as a party
—was implicated in the acts of
the various Communists with
whom the commission dealt, it
was again impossible to deter-
mine. So soon as anybody was
proved implicated he or she
repudiated the party and the
party acted in like kind. If
was astonishing to the onlooker
that nearly every suspect who
entered the External Affairs
Department, and who was
proved to have cause for fear,
seemed to have resigned from
the party before taking up
appointment or to have become
a reformed character, according
to the evidence, before reaching
the witness-box. But this did not
get over the striking facts that
(1) all the persons whose acts
were directly or indirectly con-
nected with espionage were
“either members of the Com-
munist party or ex-members or
pretending ex-members or sym-
pathisers with Communism, arid
some of them were high-ranking
functionaries of the party,” and
(2) the reaction of the Commun-
ists to the appointment of the
inquiry was most violent.
They used every device to defeat or
impede our investigations. Legal
proceedings were taken in the name
of a Communist tb prohibit our in-
quiry. Witnesses who were called
before us, the Security Service,
counsel assisting us and we our-
selves were maligned and our pro-
ceedings misrepresented in the Com-
munist press and in numerous
pamphlets. Scores of telegrams in
the names of members of the Com-
munist-controlled unions, particu-
larly the Seamen's Union, were re-
ceived. Op occasions organised dis-
turbances, obviously Communist-
inspired, were staged in and outside
the courthouse.
And all these proceedings, the
commissioners declared, seemed
to prove “the existence of fear
widespread amongst Commun-
ists of what our investigations
might disclose, and they indi-
cated by their nature that they
were the result of concerted and
organised action.”
And though it was deduced
that the party would be scarcely
so foolish as to have any
tangible and ascertainable links
with espionage, it was clear to
the three judges that “without
the element of Communism Aus-
tralia would be barren soil in
which Soviet espionage could
not even take root, much less
flourish.”
Finally, on that sub-
ject, it was said by the commis-
sion that it was deplorable in a
country such as Australia,
“which has inherited and main-
tained the personal liberties and
immunities secured by the
common law, there should be
any need for a Security Ser-
vice” ; but that it was “hard,
cold, matter of fact that its
justification and necessity spring
from the Soviet exploitation or
attempted exploitation of Com-
munism here for its espionage
and fifth-column purposes.”
The United Front
It has been made clear that
the commission was concerned
with Soviet espoinage, and that
only. Had it been asked to
inquire into the whole ramifica-
tions of the Communist party,
the report must have been more
startling. Even, however, as it
was, it did stumble on facts and
circumstantial evidence which
tended to suggest that the
Russian net was spread to cover
much wider objectives than mere
spying; that the Soviet Union
was, in fact, subsidising in Aus-
tralia the political party —so
called—which was the mother
of nearly all the industrial dis-
ruption in the country, nearly
all the loaf, interruption and
go-slow, especially in the
defence industries.
This was of special interest
to Australians —but not to the
commission, which, save when
relevant, avoided it when it
comes to be considered that that
party-leadership is at present
operating as before the commis-
sion in a United Front with the
Labor party in foreign policy and
defence policy ; that the Labor
party has always opposed its
suppression, and that the
Leader of the Opposition, Dr.
Evatt, a former High Court
judge, a former President of the
United Nations, rushed to
brigade himself with the Com-
munists to wreck and discredit
the commission, to slander the
commissioners and the Security
Department and, in fact,
anybody involved who was not
on the Communist side.
Nobody had accused Dr.
Evatt of anything. Nobody had
accused anybody connected with
him of anything substantial
except O’Sullivan*, his press-
secretary, whom he had immedi-
ately, not suspended but dis-
missed, when he heard that he
was coming before the commis-
sion, without even waiting to'
hear the finding on the charges.
And he, in any case, had com-
mitted his fault before joining
Dr. Evatt’s staff.
No jury on the evidence, no
counsel on what was submitted
by Dr. Evatt, one would have
thought, could possibly have
believed the wild accusations
which he levelled; and it was
difficult to credit that he and
his legal colleagues did believe
them in view of the reluctance
which they showed to cross-
examine some of those whom
they accused. But, as the com-
missioners’ „int e r i m report
declared:
Charge followed charge with be-
wildering variations. Suggestions
were made of blackmail, forgery,
uttering,' fabrication, fraud and con-
spiracy and upon the repeated
assurances of Dr. Evatt that his ex-
amination of witnesses was directed
to these matters and would prove
them —we. felt constrained to per-
mit him great latitude in his ques-
tioning. As day followed day and
all that we heard was constant re-
iteration of vague charges of in-
famy, we demanded of counsel on
September 1 that they formulate
with exactitude their allegations.
Dr. Evatt then charged that Exhibit
J [Lockwood’s document] had been
fabricated by the Petrovs as part
of a political conspiracy with the
enforced aid of O’Sullivan, who, he
alleged, hatT' TTeen blackmailed into
collaborating in the fabrication of
the document and inserting therein
as sources the names of himself,
Grundeman and Dalziel—i.e., Dr.
Evatt’s secretaries, who were only
charged with passing on some
harmless gossip to casually en-
countered Communists.
The .political conspiracy was,
therefore, one to “injure Dr.
Evatt and the Australian Labor
party by procuring the false
insertion in Document J” —that
“farrago of fact, falsity and
filtjh,” as Mr. Windeyer called
it—“of the names of three of his
secretaries as sources, so that
Document J could be produced
on the eve of the Federal Elec-
tions of 1954” which, of
course, it had not been.
Dr. Evatt further charged
that the Deputy-Director of
Security, Mr. Richards, had not
(i Continued, on page 31)


GENERAL CREDITS LTD.
Registered First MORTGAGE Debenture Stock
LONG TERM
7%
Currency Interest (per annum)
2 years
3 „
4 „
5 „ to 10 years ....
”
5i%
6%
6i%
7%
1%
SHORT
TERM
4
°/
4 /o
Currency Interest (per annum)
3 months
6 „
9 „
12 „
3i%
3i%
4%
4i%
Interest payable Quarterly , free of exchange
PROSPECTUS may be obtained from
Branches of the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
throughout Australia
Members of the Stock Exchange
Offices of the Company.
GENERAL CREDITS LTD.
393 Flinders Lane, Melb,
170 St. Georges Terrace, Perth .
UNDERWRITERS
J. B. WERE & SON
This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to subscribe
for the debenture stock mentioned herein.
GC2
/
■A
y
■Take it easy
1.. LET YOUR TRACTOR
| PUMP ITS OWN TYRES
Mobilco
TRACTOR-MOUNTED
COMPRESSOR
PUMPS, POWER GREASES, SPRAYS
There's a lot less hard work for
you when you fit a Mobilco Com-
pressor to your tractor power
greasing, fuelling, tyre pumping,
paint spraying, tree spraying come
easily to this inexpensive Httle
farm aid. And by a quick piston
and cylinder change-over you can
convert to a really effective boom
spray. That's a lot to get from
one compressor and you're buying quality as well
a first class article built and finished to perfection
and guaranteed for six months. Post the coupon
below for fuller details.
REMEMBER, IT FITS ALL TRACTORS AND ALL
MOBILCO CIRCULAR SAWS
4m IwiciTTeßvicB "coupon"-
Please send me straight away, and without obligation,
all details of the MOBILCO COMPRESSOR/
Name
Address
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LIMITED
50-54 Silverwater Rd., Auburn. YX1244-5. 'Grams: Mobileo, Sydney
Head Office - - 410-416 Whitehorse Road, Mitcham, Victoria
Phone: WU 1081 (9 lines) - Branches: Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
Tasmania - Cameron & Sutherland Ltd., Launceston and Hobart
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRITISH AIRCRAFT
ORITAIN’S Farnborough air-
display turned the attention of
the press to the aircraft-industry
in general—its troubles with the
Comet, Swift and others; its
success with planes like the
Viscount and Canberra; and
its leadership with engines like
the Rolls-Royce Conway by-pass
jet, the De Havilland Gyron
(described as “the most powerful
jet-engine in the world”) and the
Bristol Orpheus, which weighs
only 8501 b. and develops a
48501 b. thrust —it has been
selected to power the Folland
Gnat some foreign light
fighters.
Still, as the following sampling
indicates, British press-comment
has changed considerably since
a couple of years ago, when the
British aircraft-industry seemed
to be in an unbeatable position :
London “Economist": “In the
recent history of the British air-
craft-industry, the Services put
forward requirements that were
overambitious and the manu-
facturers, driven partly by in-
tense internal competition,
rashly undertook to meet them.
The classic victim of this com-
bination of errors was the Swift,
which began as a promising
research aircraft but ended on
the scrapheap—because the Air
Ministry asked for improve-
ments in performance that the
structure was technically incap-
able, of sustaining, and the com-
pany undertook to make them.
“But Vickers is not the only
manufacturer to fall into this
pitfall. The career of the Hunter
has been chequered, and its
active life in service shortened
because of the need to put right
defects caused by straining the
design, sometimes against a
designer’s better judgment, to
meet Service requirements. The
last chapters of the history of
the Javelin have not yet been
written, but its future must still
be regarded as uncertain in the
extreme.
“During the same period, quite
radical modifications have been
quietly carried out on the big
bombers. The Valiant, which is
in service after minor delays, is
one of the few designs that
represent a compromise between
what the Services wanted and
what the designer believed pos-
sible. But other companies have
been less fortunate. The De
Havilland 110 all-weather fighter
was rejected in favor of the
Javelin because its design was
not sufficiently futuristic. The
Folland Gnat was and still is
coldly received in many Service-
quarters because it lacks certain
refinements.
“These facts and their causes
have been openly recognised and
admitted both in the industry
and in the Government depart-
ments affected. But the solution
currently in favor does not seem
to strike to the heart of the
matter. The defects of an air-
craft can only be found out by
flying it. Progress with most
recent designs, and on the Javelin
in particular, has certainly been
held up in the past because only
one or two prototypes were
ordered at a time: an accident
to one was therefore liable to
set back work on the machine
for months and sometimes years.
“So a practice long in use in
other countries has now been
adopted, that of ordering not
one or two, but 10 or 20 ‘pre-
production’ aircraft in order to
cram a far greater number of
test-flying hours into a given
period of time, and to test dif-
ferent aspects of the aircraft —
its electronics, armament and
other equipment in different
prototypes.
“This is an undoubted im-
provement on earlier methods of
ordering, but it speeds-up the
uncovering of defects only after
the machine has been designed
and built. It tacitly assumes
that development troubles are
going to be encountered and
merely looks for the quickest
way of dealing with them. But
the world’s really successful
designs have been those with the
fewest development pains. The
Viscount and the Canberra are
two examples of aircraft put into,
production without major modi-
fications being necessary, and
the Canberra, which with its
relatively low speed and limited
payload should now by military
standards be obsolete, is proving
to have as many lives as a cat.”
„* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “Con-
sidering the great lead which
war-time circumstances allowed
America to gain in the construc-
tion of civil planes, Britain has
done well to catch up so far and
so fast. We were the first nation
to fly jet and turbo-prop aircraft.
We \yere the pioneers.
“At one time it looked as
though nothing could prevent
us from being the first nation
to fly jet-airliners across the
Atlantic. Now the picture has
changed radically.
“The Americans hope to have
jet airliners flying regularly on
this route by 1960. We have the
Comet IV on the stocks, but it
will not be capable of non-stop
Atlantic runs. The Vickers V.C.
1000, which promises to be as
good as its American rivals, has
had only lukewarm support in
Britain so far.
“So it looks as though the
Blue Riband of the air may elude
us after all. There is more than
a matter of prestige involved
here. The first jet liner to fly
the Atlantic non-stop will find
many buyers.
“Are we dispersing our efforts
too widely? Might it not be
wiser to concentrate' on fewer
prototypes? These are ques-
tions which should be exercising
the entire aircraft-industry, and
even the Government.”
fi * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“We [Britain] have been attempt-
ing too much, and our technical
staff is not sufficient to nurture
all the new machines. The policy
of making only one or two proto-
types has caused serious waste of
time and money. This means
that the industry must be given
a bold and decisive lead.
Primarily, this is a Government
responsibility. Technical staff
and workers must be encouraged
to carry through a few definite
projects which will show results,
and revive enthusiasm. Pro-
duction orders must, so far as
possible, be handled so as to
give maximum security to
labor.”
* * *
London “Financial Times”:
“The main contenders for this
lucrative market [an expected
£ISOQ-million-worth of orders
for civil aircraft in the next 10
years] are in this country
{Britain] and the United States.
It would be idle to deny that in
the, contest the United States has
powerful advantages and that
the U.K. has suffered setbacks.
The U.S. has a domestic market
on which it could alone probably
operate quite satisfactorily.
“Profit in the British industry
depends on a substantial export
market, the ability to develop
which, however, is impaired by
the smallness of home demand.
Without a larger home market,
British aircraft manufacturers
—London “Daily Express”
“THE FOREIGN MINISTER HAS HAD A
TERRIBLE SHOCK.”
can expect to develop overseas
sales only on the basis of aircraft
of exceptional quality and per-
formance which have been fully
and convincingly proved by ser-
vice with British airlines.
“That this, in fact, is not an
impossible task is proved by the
achievements and successes of
the Viscount. And there are
grounds for hoping that the
Britannia and the later marks of
the Comet will repeat the suc-
cesses of the Viscount.”
Satellite Forces
Reductions, announced and.
proposed, to their armed forces
by the Soviet and its satellites
total about 830,000, but, as Lon-
don “Time and Tide” comments,
it is difficult to see in them
“much more than a desire to pro-
vide fuel for Communist ‘peace’
propaganda”:
“Even if we pass over the fact
that we have no sure means of
knowing whether in fact this
demobilisation is carried out, we
cannot ignore the fact that, if it
is, there will still be something
like five million well-trained and
well-equipped men under arms
in Russia and her East European
satellites, organised under a
central command in Moscow.
“If the Communists are being
forced, whether by a desire to
impress Western public opinion
or by the internal pressufe for
manpower, to reduce their
grossly inflated armed forces, we
may, out of politeness, welcome


Don't fear a
heart attack
A hot glow stabbed bis chest.
(Indigestion, he thought.) But
another pain struck, then ano-
ther. His arm went numb—and
suddenly he thought: “I’m go-
ing to die . . This is an ex-
cerpt from a moment-by-moment
account of a heart attack, in
October Reader’s Digest, filled
with both a warning and a mes-
sage of hope.
You’ll enjoy the variety of
stimulating articles in October
Reader’s Digest, which features
many new improvements to add
to your heading pleasure, inclu-
ding higher-quality paper, easier-
to-read type, modern square-back
binding. At only 2/- it’s un-
paralleled reading value for all
the family. From all newsagents
and bookstalls. Get yours today.
BRANDAUERS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not expert
merit with
Imitatlont.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
Divorce Notice
IJSJ THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO PATRICK JAMES SMITH address
unknown. —T AKE NOTICE that
GEORGINA JUNE SMITH has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1775 of 1955 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899-1954. If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Ninth day of December 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. G. W. CONNAH
SON & STEED, Solicitors,, of 92 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
S2ZZI
A
A
A
A
i
3
m*..Z
M
rfi
VJ
mijlSfl
«*a
S: x*x " "
Atlantic Extra gives you positive acceleration for power-
easy getaways, as a safety margin when passing, for
effortless top gear hill climbs, and for just downright
motoring pleasure.
That s because modern refining, plus efficient and unique
additives, make Atlantic Extra the spirit "tailor made" for
today's motoring requirements.
So for extra knock-free power, acceleration, efficiency and
economy, pull in at the Atlantic oval sign and fill with
Atlantic Etfra today.
'EXTRA
j
AE3M
the gesture. But we can hardly
be expected to cheer this belated
performance or to match it with
reductions in our own inade-
quate armies.
“It is in any case impossible, to
assess the significance of these
gestures without knowing the
actual size of the Russian and
satellite armies. Are the reduc-
tions of the order of five or fifty
per cent? In the absence of any
information on this point from
the Communist leaders we can
only have recourse to official
Western estimates.
“On this basis Poland, even
after releasing 47,000 men, will
still have no less than 230,000
under arms. Rumania will
still have 190,000, or 68,000
more than she is permitted by
the peace-treaty. Hungary and
Bulgaria are reckoned now to
have a total of some 500,000 men
in the armed forces 360,000
more than they are allowed by
their treaties. The closer the
figures are studied the less iirj-
pressive they become.
“Any impression that the
Soviet and satellite Governments
are really reducing their military
potential is dispelled by a more
careful study of their press. For
there we find that, tucked away
behind the ‘peace’ propaganda,
great attention is being paid to
the development of the numerous
organisations into
which young people are being
dragooned. The Soviet Dosaaf
organisation, for example, held
a meeting at the end of August
to plan a series of nationwide
conferences and discuss measures
for extending its activities, which
already embrace millions of
young people.
“Unable for economic reasons
to maintain their armies at the
present levels in peace-time, the
Communist leaders are making
sure that their potential will not
drop and that they will be able,
as they say, to ‘deal a crushing
blow’ when the time comes.”
German Army
Despite earlier hopes that
Germany would rearm in two
years, it is now clear, in a “U.S.
News and World Report” esti-
mate, that it will be 1960 before
a German army is ready to take
its place in the West’s defence-
line against Russia:
“German rearmament is get-
ting under way, but its pace is
slow, and Allied military leaders
long since have abandoned hope
for a speedy German build-up.
“Recruiting, about to begin, is
geared to bring in only 6000
commissioned and non-commis-
sioned officers by December. It
will be early next year before
serious efforts start to build an
all-volunteer, 150,000-man pro-
fessional cadre. Not until 1958,
as plans stand, will the first
draftees be called.
“Not long ago American
military men thought that Ger-
mans, once started, would
rearm in two or three years.
There was even an official plan,
in 1952, to raise 12 German
divisions in 22 months. But
the story is different today.
“The outlook now is that it
will take five years for Ger-
many’s forces to be organised,
filled out with draftees, trained
and made ready for combat.
That is the present considered
opinion of most American
officials in Bonn, despite Ger-
man assurances that the Army
will be ready within three years.
“As plans are at last shaping-
up, the German forces when
finally created will be the most
powerful—and the most modern
—in Europe west of the Iron
Curtain. , Active German divi-
sions, in fact, will match in
numbers the total now main-
tained on the continent of
Europe by Britain, France,
Belgium and Holland.
“Germans, moreover, will
have 2000 planes. And they will
have at least/3000 tanks—more
armor than the U.S., British and
French forces in Europe com-
bined.
“In addition, Germans are to
have airborne units, submarines,
the latest jet-planes, everything
but atomic weapons. Like other
North Atlantic Treaty Organisa-
tion forces, the Germans will
get their atomic support from
American units equipped with
atomic bombs, artillery, rockets
and guided-missiles.”
Wool
Commenting on wool-prices,
Bradford “Wool Record” notes
editorially that Australia’s
dependence on its export-income
from wool may be gauged from
the fact that “a change of only
one penny per pound in the
price of the fibre can make a
difference of £AS million in the
country’s earnings of foreign
currency. The crucial question
is: will wool-prices stay where
they are or go Jhigher as the
season progresses?”
“One leading woolgrower, Mr.
J. H. Moolman, of South Africa,
is optimistic. In a statement
issued in Pretoria Mr. Moolman,
who is chairman of the Inter-
national Wool Publicity and
Research Fund, declared, ‘Hav-
ing scrutinised carefully the wool
picture all over the world through
the channels of our international
organisation, I find no justifica-
tion whatever for the sharp
decline in wool-prices. I can see
no reason why they should not
harden before long.’
“Mr. Moolman has some solid
ground on which to base his
optimism. The price of wool
has fallen much further than
that of other textile fibres; if it
cannot be described as cheap
at today’s level, it is undoubtedly
value for money. There is no
question of its being priced out
of the market, as the danger
was a few years ago. Indeed,
producers of Merino wool are
complaining that if prices decline
any more their profit-margin will
disappear. Mr. Moolman has
warned the wool-textile industry
that, unless it is prepared to pay
the necessary premium for fine
wools, breeding trends will drift
the other way and eventually
users may find that these types
of wool comprise only a very
small percentage of the Com-
monwealth clip.
' “It is difficult, if not impossible,
to discover the average cost of
producing a pound of botany-
wool. But there is plenty of evi-
dence that growers’ costs- have
soared in the last five years and
we cannot treat lightly the warn-
ing that world wool-production
may receive a severe setback
if growers’ incomes fall further.
A tremendous effort has been
made to expand and improve
the Dominion clips, and it is in
the interests of users as well as
producers that the incentive to
continue this vital work is not
destroyed.”
Italy
Noting that “most countries
engaged in highly publicised,
grand-scale economic planning”
have undeveloped and even
unknown resources, Baltimore
(U.S.A.) “Sun” includes Italy
among those economically
backward countries which are
trying to catch up with the
leaders.
Italy’s case, however, the
“Sun” adds, is “somewhat
special” :
“As one of the oldest of
civilised nations, its resources
have long been known and its
problems are ancient. No ‘crash’
economic programme will solve
Italy’s troubles or discover un-
expected new sources of wealth.
“It is in recognition of this
that Premier Antonio Segni has
proposed not a five-year plan
for the Italian economy, but a
ten-year plan ; and a plan not
of dramatic action, but of plod-
ding endeavor.
“It has two main points: to
encourage the investment of
foreign capital, particularly from
the United States, and to press
for land-reform.
“There was a time, only a few
years ago, when foreign capital
might have thought investment
in Italy too risky. That was when
it seemed that the Communists
might succeed in their effort to
take-over the country at the
ballot-box. The effort failed, and
the Communists since have lost
strength.
“The Communists still remain
dangerous, in great part because
of peasant grievances over land.
A land-reform programme,
started under Signor Segni five
years ago, when he was Minister
of Agriculture, has made some
progress, but not enough. Now
that its designer holds the
Premiership, a definite accelera-
tion may be expected.
“Foreign capital will not flood
Italy tomorrow. The peasants’
land-hunger will not be appeased
next week, or next year. But
under a modest, long-term policy
such as Signor Segni’s, the time
may come when Italy’s unem-
ployed factory-workers have
jobs, and Italy’s peasants have
enough land to keep them alive
and to sustain their self-respect.”
Inflation
A prescription for Britain’s
economic ills —by Oscar Hobson
in London “Time apd Tide”—
sounds rather like the medicine
Australia could do with at the
moment.
Hobson qualifies the dose with
the fact that it “does not mean
that monetary measures should
not be used. It is imperative that
they should be used and many of
the necessary ones are plainly
indicated.” Then he asks what
is the root cause of the present
serious economic situation:
“Most people know what it is
even though they would find it
difficult—as I do —to describe. It
is identified by different names.
Some people call it over-employ-
ment, but that is a symptom and
not a cause. ‘lnflation’ is the
term most in vogue at the present
time. But it is an unsatisfactory
term. Its popular definition is
‘too much money chasing too
few goods’—words which will,
perhaps, form Dr. Hugh Dalton’s
lasting memorial.
“But why too much money
and why too few goods? Too
few goods mainly because people
don’t like working to produce
more. And too much money for
the same reason or, more
generally, because, more blessed
though the converse may be,
people prefer receiving to giving.
“The point I am making is that
inflation is not merely a
monetary disorder but a social
disease. It is a disease com-
pounded of many different
elements, exhaustion (though we
[Britain] can no longer plead
that as an excuse), escapism,
class-dissension, sheer moral
laziness among them. It cannot,
therefore, be eradicated by
purely monetary means. We
have so far, perhaps, been more
concerned to let it be seen that
inflation was being dealt with
than to deal with it in reality.”
Various Voices
Gerald Nabarro (Conserva-
tive M.P. for Kidderminster):
“Between 1948 and 1954 our
(British) national output rose by
20 per cent., but wages rose by
52 per cent.; each unit of pro-
duction cost 27 per cent, more
in wages. That did not happen
in Germany, or in U.S.A., or
in Japan, our principal overseas
competitors. The British work-
ing man, still the best in the
world, might reflect on these
figures. If the trends continue
and accelerate, as certain unions
threaten, we can work ourselves
out of jobs and quickly.”
Sir Anthony Eden: “We cannot
live without our export-trade.
We cannot count on prices
rising in the countries which are
our chief competitors. We have
to face the hard facts of inter-
national competition: if we do
not, other countries will move
in and take our markets.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Food and Drink
The provision of counter-lunches by
a few enterprising Melbourne hotels was
criticised by the Licensed Victuallers
Association on the ground that supply-
ing food to patrons led to “unfair com-
petition” between hotels.
If the sole purpose of hotels were to
supply liquid refreshment that criticism
would be unanswerable, but the true
function of a hotel as I understand it is
to provide accommodation, food and
drink. Critics of the counter-lunch, an
obvious and desirable amenity, leave
themselves open to the charge of trying
to restrict hotel-service to the supplying
of liquor. It is no secret that many
hotels, particularly in the city area, rely
almost wholly on bar-trade for their
revenue; to accept that as their real
function would lead to a return to the
old evils of the drinking-shop.
Most medical men would agree with
the pronouncement of a leading English
physician that, from the viewpoint of
health and sobriety, liquor should only
be taken with a meal. It might be too
much to expect such a radical alteration
in our drinking, but a sane and reason-
able approach on the part of the hotels
and those controlling them could
encourage eating with drinking.
Boozing has become a national prob-
lem, as crime and road-accident statistics
clearly reveal, and some of the blame
lies at the door of the liquor-interests
themselves. If they actively discourage
measures to improve our drinking-habits
they will, sooner or later, find them-
selves brought under far stricter public
control. —D. J. G. (Vic.).
Taxation Defaulters
I had thought that dodging taxation by
falsifying returns was a product of this
modern age, but browsing through “Bell’s
Messenger,” an old London newspaper
of 1797, I found an item regarding the
then Duke of Bedford, who had been
fined £3OO “for having omitted to make
a proper return of the number of servants
and horses kept by him.” His Grace
was surcharged for 27 servants —he had
only entered 26 on his form —including
a gardener, postilion, porter, game-
keeper and 21 “helpers.” He pleaded that,
“as the helpers did not wear a livery, and
were engaged by the week, they were not
“Could I have a glance at your telephone-book, please?”
liable to the duty,” but the commissioners
turned it down and inflicted double duty
for the extra 27 servants as well as on
17 horses above the number the duke
had entered.
Australian magistrates are seriously
concerned about the steadily-increasing
number of taxation-dodgers who come
before them in which large sums are
involved. In S.A., in cases classified as
“suspected fraud,” courts consider heavier
penalties should be placed on the statute-
books, and various other States feel the
same way. New Zealand magistrates
have demanded power to jail offenders
described by them as “frauds against
society and the taxpaying public,” and
the Government is likely to accede to
the request. People prominent in the
social world have been convicted of
robbing the Taxation Department of
thousands, but they still smilingly line-
up with respectable members of the com-
munity ; other less-fortunate individuals
who come before the courts on lesser
charges involving a few pounds, such
as robbing a till, may get two or three
years’ imprisonment and social ostracism.
Names of prominent people guilty of
taxation-fraud for large amounts figure
frequently in the press reports. Among
them one finds business- and professional-
men, farmers, tradesmen and companies.
It would be a good thing, both for
revenue and public morality, if Com-
monwealth and State Governments went
more closely into the question of inflict-
ing heavier penalties on big-shot offenders
who cheat the public revenue in a whole-
sale way.— Equity (Tas.).
Car-trials
“R.A.” must live in a bitumen-road
area to ask “What purpose is being served
by Redex trials?” (B. 31/8/’55).
If the trials and all the publicity
accorded them lead to the development of
a car that can carry women and children
with some degree of comfort at a
moderate 30 or 40 m.p.h. on non-
bituminised roads, then the Redex trials
will have served a national purpose.
Today’s cars are so expensive and so
easily damaged on back-country roads
that they are ill-suited to outback needs.
Eighty years ago, or less, families in
horse-drawn vehicles were able to move
about the inland, at a slow pace, certainly,
but in regions where today’s fancy cars
can’t travel with certainty or safety.
Better cars or better roads are needed
outback, and, since cars are made by
private enterprise, there’s probably more
chance with them. —K. E. (Q.).
Dunkirk
Field-Marshal Kesselring’s book is
in line with other German hard-luck
stories following defeat in two world
wars. These “Erinnerungen,” like those of
Eric Ludendorff after the war of 1914-18,
pretend to explain away an enigma that
is actually non-existent. I heard Luden-
dorff speaking to the new Hitler con-
scripts at Potsdam, in 1936, at about the
time of the Berlin Olympic Games, when
he'ref erred to the Reich being defrauded
of victory; and in his memoirs he talks
about a stab in the back for the German
army. But Kesselring’s references to
Dunkirk are much more fantastic be-
cause the supposed enigma concerning
the British evacuation comes within the
ken of a considerable number of correctly
informed people at present living out-
side as well as inside Germany.
This evacuation of more than 300,000
troops from Dunkirk in the face of the
full strength of Hitler’s Panzer divisions
cannot be ascribed either to Hitler’s own
orders or to those of his top-rank brass-
hats —unless we are to believe that the
former wished to be kind to England be-
cause she made valiant and practical
efforts to thwart him; or that German
staff-officers like watching their beaten
enemies walk off to prepare for another
go.
These 300,000 men were, in fact,
practically all there were of Britain s best
experienced troops. In the face
of this, Kesselring’s story of orders from
high above to let the British escape takes
on the form of a weak apologia and
deserves a place alongside his other yarn
about there having been no intention of
invading England by sea or air.
The plain truth is that the thrust of
the Panzers met with more resistance
than was anticipated and, but for the de-
fection of the Belgians, would have been
even more seriously hampered. By the
time they had reached the area where
the retreating British were cornered some
real reorganisation was essential. More
important, the terrain, dissected by in-
numerable canals, presented the worst
possible battleground for heavy tanks
and artillery, thus reducing the weight
of the German fire-power to something
like that of their enemy, or perhaps even
less
Finally, although the British were out-
weighed in fire-strength on land, the
Royal Navy, with its fleet of destroyers,
was able to outrange and outshoot the
availably field artillery of the encircling
Germans and thus keep them at bay.
F. A. (N.S.W.).
Britain Pulls Her Weight
Seizing the time for a little
needed plain-speaking, the Acting
High Commissioner for the U.K., Mr.
G. W. Tory, told a Canberra meeting
that Australians were not justified in
thinking that Britain was “dragging her
feet” in South-East Asian defence or in
suggesting that Australia should look
elsewhere for friendship and assistance.
Stressing that such misunderstanding
was dangerous, he agreed that co-opera-
tion with the United States was the
cornerstone of British as well as Aus-
tralian policy, but he gave at the same
time some figures on British defence-
spending and commitments worth
remembering. He recalled that the U.K.
taxpayer carried higher defence-costs
than any taxpayer in any other country,
with a third of Government expenditure
going in this way, and added:
I am told that if we did not have this
burden we should be able to dispense en-
tirely with income-tax, and with taxes on
drink and betting and other forms of
entertainment. What a beautiful world
that would be!
The truth is that Britain has 28,000
troops in South-East Asia, and for years
these forces have been fighting Com-
munists in the jungles of Malaya. These
men, mostly doing their National Ser-
vice, are performing a task which is
designed to protect Australia as much as
anyone else, and they have some claim
to our gratitude as well as our support.
At the same time, as Mr. Tory reminded
us, Britain has signed the Seato treaty,
has taken a prominent part in all the
activities associated with it, and is fully
committed to all its provisions, including
those which provide for action in the
event of military aggression. He sug-
gested that Britain was fully conscious
of the fact that Seato was like the small
plug holding the water in the bath, and
that if this were forced out of position
the “water” would come flooding down
through Siam to Malaya, destroying,
incidentally, any chance of Malayan self-
government.
Such a flood of Chinese Communists
is no flight of imagination. It could
and probably would be the first result
of any breach in the defences —and it
would pose a new and even more urgent
problem for the framers and supporters
of the “Hobart line” in the Evatt Labor
policy. It is time that we came more to
the aid of Britain, acknowledging that
our safety is largely due to her 800,000
men under arms throughout the world,
many of them in trouble-spots, present
and potential, and that pur own aug-
mented contribution is overdue. —Mugga
Way (A.C.T.).
Railway Exhibition
The N. S. Wales Commissioner for
Railways, Mr. Winsor, certainly put on
a tiptop exhibition to mark the centenary
of the N.S.W. railways.
At Central, anyone is almost completely
free to touch and try everything there
is—pneumatic-drills which actually
work, mechanical-cutters for clearing
between sleepers and real engines on
which the handles may be turned and
twisted in perfect safety. At Wynyard
real signals may be moved or lit, bells
rung and warning lights flashed.
It is a good show, a compliment to
Mr. Winsor and his organisers, and an
example to a lot of others who arrange
such things with signs all over the place:
“Don’t touch or handle the exhibits.”
I took my young fellow to see it and
he had the time of his life. To cap it all,
as we turned to leave Central we paused
alongside the C3B engine which had just
brought in the Newcastle express; the
driver asked my youngster if he would
like to climb into the cab with him.
Would he! The driver took him in, and
let him pull the valve which let-off steam
somewhere with the appropriate noise,
then he let him blow the whistle several
times. You should have seen my little
chap’s eyes. He hasn’t finished talking
about the experience yet. — Plumber
Yete (N.S.W.),
Marketing Oranges
Westralia’s Citrus Growers’ Council
has been considering an opinion from
one of its branches “that the practice of
artificially coloring immature oranges is
detrimental to the industry.” It was
agreed that the practice was detrimental.
Coming from growers who are vitally
concerned in increasing sales, both the
motion and the agreement are marvels
of understatement. What isn’t an under-
statement is this: there are people who
have grown to adulthood in W.A., within
a few miles of orchards, without once
tasting the flavor of a fully-ripe orange.
The result is that a very weak market
exists where there should be a strong,
consistent demand, and one of the main
reasons for this is the early, artificial
coloring of unripe fruit.
Every grower knows how to induce
color into oranges long before the pectin
turns to sugars, one of the commonest
ways being the application of suitable
fertilisers at the right time. Many
orchardists resort to this practice at some
time or another to catch a favorable
market, and appearance becomes the only
consideration in the marketing of fruit.
It’s also the only consideration on the
part of wholesale and retail buyers, and
the general public, having been educated
to that attitude, isn’t greatly disappointed
when appearances are deceptive. By the
same token they’re not easily attracted,
either, and so even the finest display-
lines don’t sell as they should. The effects
have been allowed to accumulate over the
years and the market is ruined.
There are side-effects, too. A retailer
isn’t prepared to bid heavily where
there’s a risk of not selling, and he also
asks a higher margin than should be
necessary or permitted, His high prices
further depress sales.
The Citrus Council says it can’t see
the answer because “there are limitations
to the practical enforcement of appropri-
ate controls.” That may be so. But the
Fruitgrowers’ Union is an influential
body whose members’ livelihood depends
on the market they’re losing. It should
be able to convince the majority of
growers that they’ve got to market fruit
which is attractive in taste as well as
appearance.
If the public once get the taste of ripe
fruit the growers won’t be able to supply
the local demand. — Spin (W.A.).


Divorce Notices
TO JAKOB ZACHARIAS ZONLIGT
address unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife THERESIA ZONLIGT has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground of desertion by
you for a continuous period of three years
or more. IF you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file your defence in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court
at Perth within FORTY clear days from
the date of this publication In default
of your so doing the cause may proceed
and the Court will pronounce judgment
and Aake orders against you in your
absence. Dated this 27th day of Sep-
tember. 1955.—G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar. MESSRS. FRED CURRAN &
FERRIER, of 37-38 Padbury Buildings,
Forrest Place, Perth, in the State of
Western Australia, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO SIDNEY ALBERT CHARLES
GRAHAM—TAKE NOTICE that MAR-
GARET CAMERON GRAHAM has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2135 of 1955 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1954
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
16th December 1955 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from J. C.
RICKARD, SYMONDS & CO., Solicitors,
of 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Y
Sc
So
much
TWO
when you own a
"4QD
THE CONTINUOUS BURNING
INSULATED COOKER AND
WATER HEATER . . .
MORE
COOKING SPACi
COMPRESSED INSULATION saves
space, allowing greater cooking area.
The hot plate is bigger, too, with
room enough for six 6" saucepans.
FASTER.
CLEANER OVEN
The roomy oven of the
Carmichael "400" is
specially designed to
heat up faster, last for years, and,
being porcelain enamelled throughout,
is so much easier to clean.
AMAZING
FUEL ECONOMY
The Carmichael ‘‘4oo” is always ready
for use and gives a greater fuel
economy than ever experienced with
ordinary fuel stoves. It will burn con-
tinuously on any type of solid fuel,
including satisfactory wood.
CnJLmirh pg!
%
SLOW
-X
:
mm
* The Carmichael “400” can even he allowed to go out overnight if
desired as the hotplate can reach full cooking heat in 15 minutes,
HOT WATER LUXURY THAT COSTS YOU NOTHING .. .
Connected to your home hot water service, the Carmichael
"400” will supply hot water throughout the day or night. It
can service a 40-gallon cylinder, enough to provide for all'
normal household needs.
Naturally it cooks perfectly . • . it's a Carmichael
Mdkers of fine fuel stove* since 1892
A UNIT OF EMAIL. LIMITED
Wrife today for tree illustrated literature to Department B:
W. T. Carmichael Ltd., Rawson Street, Auburn. N.S.W. Buzaeott CAust.) Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
W. T. Carmichael Ltd., Brisbane and Hobart. James Balfour & Co. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Adelaide Perth. Also at Email Display Centre, 115 Oxford Street, Sydney.
shown proper care in his work
and had accepted from Petrov
fabricated docpments, had paid
him large sums of public money
and “had ‘uttered’ these docu-
ments, presumably to the
Prime Minister of Australia.”
The counsel for Lockwood —
secretary ot the Communist
party, Victorian branch —
quickly made these charges his
own with some variation. But
the commissioners found unani-
mously—as must everybody who
heard even the evidence in court
without the support of wire and
other Security Service record-
ings—that “in the result, all the
charges turned out to be fantastic
and wholly unsupported by
credible evidence,” grave as they
were.
The External Affairs Case
It was established that the
M.V.D. began its operations in
Australia in 1943 soon after
Dr. Evatt removed the ban
from the illegal Communist
party. Petrov declared that
“between 1945 and 1948 there
was a very serious situation in
Australia in the Department of
External Affairs.” The Com-
munist party here had a group
of External Affairs officers
giving them official information.
The members of the group were
bringing out copies of official
documents, which they gave to
a Communist-party member.
This party-man gave the docu-
ments to Mr. Makarov at the
Soviet Embassy. The documents
“described the Australian
foreign policy and also con-
tained a lot of information about
American and English foreign
policy.”
This obviously was confirmed
(the commissioners wrote) by
reports made to the Prime
Minister, Mr. Chifley, in 1948,
which impressed him with the
need for greater security in
Government departments and
which led to his formation of
the Security Service, which Dr.
Evatt so reviles, in 1949.
The commissioners declared
that after the formation of the
Security Service further in-
formation was obtained regard-
ing the previous inadequacy of
precautionary measures, and
knowledge of the position was
greatly amplified by the in-
formation in the papers brought
by Petrov, and evidence of the
witnesses called before them.
The commissioners could “find
no trace < that the M.V.D.
attained any significant success
in the External Affairs Depart-
ment after 1949.” But before
that the success had been strik-
ing ; the department had been
infiltrated, and persons whose
connections with Communism
and Communist agencies the
very dogs were barking had
access to secret documents.
Some of them were, indeed,
advertising their connections,
present or recent, openly by
reason of the offices they had
held in party apparatus.
Dr. Evatt could hardly have
been ignorant of the possibility
that a long list of these persons
would be of interest to Moscow
and that they might be men-
tioned (with what embarrass-
ments was problematical) in the
papers which Petrov had
brought from the Embassy. And
he must have known—having
had access to the reports to the
Government in 1948—that the
verdict of the commission must
be (in effect, as it was) that in the
External Affairs Department, of
which he was head, the “Soviet
espionage operations met with
substantial success” in the years
between 1943 and 1949 while he
was the responsible Minister.
25,000 Dollars—for Whom?
There was one other matter
which must have given him
concern as leader of the Labor
party. It had not emerged when
he made his attacks on the com-
mission in the first place. But
what had emerged in Parliament
was a charge, said to have been
substantiated by one • of the
party’s own organisational
leaders, that approximately
£12,000 or £13,000 of Commun-
ist money had been paid into
Labor-party funds by way of
consideration for Dr.
appearance before the High
Court to contest the Communist
Party Dissolution Bill and to
recoup the Federal Labor party
for part of the cost of its fight
against the Referendum pro-
posal of 1951 to alter the Con-
stitution to enable the bill to
become, law.
Whether or not any money
passed between the Communist
party and the Labor party was
not an issue with the commis-
sion ; but it did conclude, after
hearing exhaustive and compli-
cated evidence, and “upon con-
sideration” of the whole matter
after the Communist party had
failed to admit the existence of
any financial records of its pro-
ceedings, that “the sum of
$25,000 was sent by' the Soviet
to Petrov with instructions that
Petrov should hand it to
Antonov to give, to Sharkey,
head of the Communist party
. . . and that at some date in or
about October, 1953, the money
was paid by Antonov to
Sharkey.”
It had appeared from the evi-
dence that, “with the approval
of the Moscow centre” of the
M.V.D., Petrov had met J. R.
Hughes, of the Clerks’ Union, a
member of the Central Com-
mittee of the Communist party,
who had “informed him that the
Communist party and its official
organ, the ‘Tribune’ newspaper,
were in financial difficulties
owing to expenditure in connec-
tion with the Referendum of
1951, and that Sharkey, the
general-secretary, desired to go
to the U.S.S.R. for medical
treatment.” The Soviet Ambas-
sador and Petrov both reported
this to Moscow.
Sharkey and his wife were
then told they were welcome in
Moscow. Sharkey admitted
that their air-fares to the extent
of £lOOO were paid by the Aus-
tralian Communist party, which
he said was “then in acute finan-
cial difficulties.” He had medi-
cal treatment in Moscow at
Russian expense. The air-fares
of himself and his wife from
Moscow to Hong Kong were
paid by the Russians. He
attended the 19th Congress of
the Russian Communist-party
Congress as Australian delegate.
And, in due course, after his
return, it was proved to the
commission’s satisfaction, a
packet containing $25,000 —
almost exactly the amount which
rumor declared to have been
paid to the Labor party —was
sent from Moscow by special
courier to Petrov with instruc-
tions to see it was passed on to
Sharkey and covered by a
phantom transaction in wool.
It is quite clear from all these
facts that the Labor party would
have very good reasons for
regarding the inquiry with dis-
taste and apprehension sufficient
to justify a major attempt to
cloud the issues and discredit the
findings.
(Next week the writer will
deal with the detailed examina-
tion by the commissioners of the
penetration of the External
Affairs Department by the
M.V.D. )


See Cameron at Sutherlands' Farmers’ Boy Bisplay
at Launceston Royal Show.
mrnmm
'■v: '4v
mmmmm m <
' xV
s ; Wi
- .
#V &
JSSsai
ms
Bm
* 1 /
isss&s
s>: m
Us!
S*m f
ft** .<•:■?&<■¥.<
mm
:■*.. &■.• "V.::
.■x; v : ' -
-I f . r /■>
**><
-d
■
*
■
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Plough attached.
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series 11, Mark XII, 11 h.p. Villiers
Engine. Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 2
Hoeing blades, lOin. Fool-bar, 3 universal standards,
and power take-off.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit
for Almost Every Purpose
xm
m
§
Rotary Scythe
Paspalum
l
Rotary Hoe
DISTRIBUTORS
Sawbench
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney. BUISII.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St., Melbourne. MU8551.
Sth. Aus.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176/180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND Ltd., 115 York St., Launceston.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Lavmmowef
Cutter Bar
Other attachments include: —
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR
tyres, Spray-painting, etc.
TRAILER, DUSTER, DISC
GENERATOR for hole-boring
for inflating
PURROWER
HARROWS,
lighting, etc.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State
Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS’
BOY” and ACCESSORIES.
Name
Address *
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CATTLE AT MELBOURNE ROYAL
MORE than half an inch of
rain during the afternoon
spoilt the judging-day for
spectators, but the cattle —
squelching around the almost
spectatorless rings, and retiring
sodden to their stalls—were
good: more even, and with an
average of quality, than those at
last year’s high-class parade.
Improvement was shown, not
only in condition—which was
partly a reflection of a very
favorable winter in most parts of
Victoria —but in preparation and-
breed-type.
The bad weather —by far the
worst judging-day since the war
—was a particular disappoint-
ment for the Royal Agricultural
Society, which had made special
efforts to improve judging facil-
ities for spectators and com-
petitors.
While a number of stock-
fanciers watched proceedings
from afar in the members’ stand,
many gazed ' hopefully at the
covered pavilion, which will be'
ready next year.
Lack of accommodation for
the number of entries was the
reason why, at time of writing,
the Guernseys had not been
judged.
Beef Breeds
Notable among the beef-cattle
were the high standard of the
Shorthorn females—described by
northern breeder J. Carter, who
also judged recently in Brisbane,
Shorthorn bulls (born between June 1, 1954, and September 2,
1954) lined up for the Judge at Melbourne.
as the best in the Commonwealth
—continued gains in popularity
by Poll Hereford and Aberdeen
Angus cattle, maintenance of
breed-quality by the Herefords,
and improvement in the Poll
Shorthorns and Devons.
Aged bulls and young females
were prominent among the
award-winners in the Shorthorns.
Winning bulls in every class were
outstanding. The top sire, J.
Kemelfield’s (Woodend, Vic.)
five-year-old% Lawton Hiawatha,
bred by P. H. Henderson, of
Scotland, was a magnificent
animal, with great bone and sub-
stance. This bull has held its con-
dition in grand style to defeat
such an excellent animal as the
runner-up, Erimus Interloper,
bred by R. S. de Quincey, of
England, and exhibited by G.
Starritt and Son, of Mooroopna
North (Vic.), which was nearly
three years younger.
The youngsters showed great
promise of developing into ex-
cellent sires. The junior-
champion and reserve-champion
were exhibited by Mr. D. R.
McCaughey, of Wagga (N.S.W.),
and Sir Rupert Clarke, of Clarke-
field (Vic.).
Other successful exhibitors in
a class where prizes were well
distributed were Lithgow and
Ross, of Coldstream (Vic.);
Alberni Bros., of Ferntree
Gully (Vic.), and Kyalla Pty.,
Ltd., of Towrang (N.S.W.).
Shorthorn females were the
best he had seen in the Common-
wealth, said Mr. Carter, who
awarded both championships
and reserve championships to
juniors.
The champion was Messrs. G.
Starritt and Son’s Kelso Myrtle,
which displayed excellent type
and had a better head than the
younger reserve - champion
paraded By Mr. Kemelfield. The
winner was also very thick and
deep.
Among winners of classes was
the young heifer 1.C.1.A.N.Z.
Bell Heather, sired by Frank
Hood’s (A Ibu r y, N.S.W.)
Kywanna Ringmaster, and ex-
hibited by I.CJ.A.N.Z., which is
developing its stud, Mt. Derri-
mut, at Deer Park, near Mel-
bourne.
The same judge found the Poll
Shorthorns very even, with
hardly any “tail” in the classes.
There was a close contest for
the male championship, in which
Merryville Pty., Ltd.’s (Murrum-
bateman, N.S.W.), Bogan
Monarch defeated the junior-
champion (also senior-reserve),
which was exhibited by R. I.
Browne, of Young (N.S.W.).
The champion displayed the
better balance and underline, but
the runner-up had the more
attractive head. The junior
reserve-champion was Merryville
Pty., Ltd.’s, rising yearling, M.
Laddie 3.
Merryville’s Peel Lydia, which
won the female championship,
was a lovely type of breeder.
Another outstanding beast was
the reserve senior-champion and
junior - champion, Merryville
Lady Nettley 2, which came
from an excellent class of
youngsters.
Reserve junior-champion, ex-
hibited by L. T. Wilson, of Lily-
dale (Vic.), was by the imported
(U.S.A.) Hilldale A. Collynie 2.
N.S.W. breeders triumphed in
the parade of Herefords. Among
the bulls, F. M. Mac Diamond
and Sons’ (Queanbeyan, N.S.W.)
Burra Benefactor, by the im-
ported Vern Vereker, defeated
well-known Victorian breeder
Jim Allen’s South Boorook
Carlton, by the imported Vern
Australia, for the open cham-
pionship.
South Boorook Carlton was
dual champion in 1954. The
1955 champion showed plenty
of character and was excellently
sprung.
The junior-championship was
won by Bob Spiel Flash, bred by
H. R. Spencer, of Harkaway
(Vic.), and exhibited by R. L.
McEachern, of Strathdownie
(Vic.), from J. Allen’s South
Boorook Marford, by the im-
ported Tarrington Keep On.
Both senior and junior
female championships were won
by classy matrons entered by
Herbert Field Pty., Ltd., the
N.S.W. breeders. Runner-up
among the seniors, S. T. and C.
H. Hawkins’s (Finley, N.S.W.)
Bon Spiel Gay Girl, was from
the same class as the winner.
Junior reserve - champion,
Ascot Winifred 2, was bred by
C. R. Malseed, of Dartmoor
(Vic.), from the imported (N.Z.)
Glynne Park Debonair. P. J.
Snow, the judge, was critical of
the hocks of some of the entries.
Entries of Poll Herefords
soared from 99 to 133, to give
the breed the numerical lead
among beef-cattle. N.S.W.
judge, R. Simson was pleasantly
surprised by the absence of “tail”
in the big classes.
Female classes, particularly,
were very even, and the leading
bulls were very good indeed. W.
J. Lenehan’s (Narrandera,
N.S.W.) Brewarrana Gallant 2,
which took both senior and
junior championships, was a
beautifuily fleshed, symmetrical
youngster.
Second to this bull in the open
line-up was S. T. and C. H.
Hawkins’s three-year-old May-
vale Jupiter. Reserve-champion
among the juniors was J. W.
Williamson’s (Bowral, N.S.W.)
Castle Bend Livingstone a
promising young sire which
should develop covering with
maturity.
In the female sections*, S. T.
and C. H. Hawkins scored a
remarkable clean sweep as fol-
lows: Senior champion, Inver-
nisk Cora 9; reserve, Spring-
field Sherba; junior-champion,
Springfield Ugena; reserve, In-
vernisk Phoebe 9.
Aberdeen Angus entries made
an attractive display, which has
been characteristic of the breed’s
performance at Melbourne since
the war. The good winter seemed
to favor the little blacks: a sleek
lot, young and old.
This year’s judge, Mr. Sher-
riff, of New Zealand, placed
females a little higher than the
bulls, which, he thought, were
getting a bit too coarse in the
shoulders.
He gave the “champion A.A.
in the Show” award to the cham-
pion cow, L. J. and A. L.
Graves’s (Mansfield, Vic.) Bat-
tery Park Show Girl. This cow,
although born on September 22,
1947, has kept her condition
wonderfully to win her second
successive “best of the breed” on
her eighth birthday: a convincing
answer to. those who doubt the
Groups of Jerseys: three females, 2-years or over, progeny of
same sire.
ability of the blacks to last with
age.
Best bull was John Bott’s
Naranghi Levy, by the famous
imported Eveltor of Hatch
Gate.
Reserve-champion was the
older Narrangullen Rastus, bred
by G. T. Reid Estate and ex-
hibited by E. C. and B. L. Haw-
kins, of Tocumwal (N.S.W.).
Junior-champion and reserve-
champion respectively were
L. J. and A. L. Graves’ Victoree
Erwin 67 and John Bott’s
Naranghi Wrangler.
Junior-champion heifer, Ter-
rinallum Pastoral Co.’s Terri-
nallum Gaiety 2, also won the
open reserve-championship. She
was sired by the famous New
Zealand bull Black Idol of
Mangatoro, and was well
advanced for her age.
The reserve junior-champion,
the Graveses’ Battery Park
Matilda, came from the same
class as Terrinallum Gaiety 2.
Although still short of Sydney
standards, the Devons showed
improvement on past perform-
ances. The judge, G. E. Karby,
of Moree (N.S.W.), found that
some entries lacked show condi-
tion and that there was a definite
“tail” in some classes.
Although a bit leggy, the
champion bull Table Top
Rumble (exhibited by A. A.
Laidlaw of Ararat, Vic.) was a
good /example of the modern
type.
Junior-champion and senior
reserve-champion was Mrs. Janet
Officer’s Kilmorey South Ser-
vant 5, from her Warmambool
(Vic.) stud. Table Top Estate’s
(Table Top, N.S.W.) Table Top
Hero 49 was reserve junior-
champion.
Female major awards were:
Champion cow, Table Top
Estate’s Table Top Lulu 3;
reserve, Gibralter Pty., Ltd.’s
(Bowral, N.S.W.), Retford Half
Penny; champion heifer, Table
Top Estate’s Table Top Flush;
reserve, Mrs. Officer’s Kilmorey
South Cowslip 1.
Dual-purpose and Dairy
Red Polls were well up to
standard. Outstanding features
were the successes of Perry Bros.,
of Tarana (N.S.W.), who cap-
tured the senior and junior bull
championships as well as the
heifer championship and reserve
championship, and the defeat of
W. S. Craig’s (Kerang, Vic.)
Bundaleer Bombproof into the
reserve position after being
champion for three successive
years.
Both the senior-champion bull
and junior-champion heifer were
by Bundaleer Bombastic. The
premier bull carried plenty of
flesh and showed good breed
character.
In addition to parading the
senior reserve-champion bull,
Mr. Craig led the runner-up to
the junior championship, Bun-
daleer Beau Superb.
Among the senior cows,
champion cow was T. E. N.
Payne’s (Kilmore, Vic.) Wood-
burn Robin ; reserve, Woodburn
Faithful 2, was from the same
stud, the same class, and was
by the same imported bull, Brad-
well Rosewell.
Other successful exhibitors of
Red Polls included John Mc-
Intosh and Son, of Merrigum
(Vic.), and Wilson G. J. Beer and
Sons, of Nanneella South (Vic.).
Australian Illawarra Short-
horn cows and heifers were
slightly better than the bulls.
Judge S. Phillips, of Kingaroy
(Q.), warned breeders of the
tendency of some bulls to become
coarse'in the thigh muscles and
across the backbone.
Mr. Phillips awarded the
male championship to the reign-
ing champion, Hillview Ajax, ex-
hibited by A. E. Story, of Emu
Creek, near Bendigo (Vic.). This
bull shows the benefit of experi-
ence before the judge: it stood
particularly well.
Runner-up was the younger
bull, Nandowra Butter King,
paraded by G. A. Evans and
Son, of Marshall (Vic.). Nan-
dowra Butter King has a beauti-
ful head and neck and should
have an excellent future in the
show-ring.
Winners in nearly every female
class were good. The aged


Best
Mineral
Supplement
is
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40 % lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat dn Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
OS
I*'
TO
BOH*
IW«
Oti-tiai-dL
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
4»y particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O Bor 3583.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE # G.P.O.
Box 712 F. ADELAIDE a G.P.O. Box 758 K. BRISBANE
a G.P.O Box 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
Tie /HostEffective Remeefyfot
r.o^
/
IT
MILK FEVER
m W££Pm/CMtE/s
5AG.35X.73S
EX DISPOSALS STOCK
TYRES FOR SALE
EARTH MOVER TYRES
4 —lB.OO x 24-16 ply Smooth tyres, suitable for Scoops.
1 at £4O and 3 at £26 each.
4 —lB.OO x 24-16 ply Goodyear tyres, shallow tread, near new
(slight damage to beads, but will not affect tyres). £125 each..
6 —lB.OO x 24-20 ply NEW Goodyear tyres, deep tread. £225 each.'
2 21.00 x 24 S/H tyres, 1 repaired at £9O, 1 clean at £125.
TRACTOR TYRES (Repaired)
1 —l5 x3O tyre. Good tread £3O
1 —l4 x2B tyre NEW tread £35
; 1 —12.75 x 24 tyres, half worn, each at £l5
4 7.50 x 18 wheels, tyres and tubes, 3 near new, 1
retreaded. Lot £5O
2 7.50 x 20 tractor tyres, 1 new, 1 S/H plenty tread. Pair £l6
18 —10.50 x 20-11 x 20 wheels, tyres and tubes, Ear tread,
near new. Each at £25
Worn from £l2/10/- to £l7/10/-. All tyres in very good
condition, with plenty of tread.
TRACTOR TREAD AIRCRAFT TYPE TYRES
(Suitable for Timber Jinkers, logging arches and soft-soil work.)
17.00 x 16 Tyres from £3 to £7/10/- each.
15.50 x 20 Tyres from £5 to £l5/0/0 each.
TRUCK TYRES
2 —12.00 x 20 S/H grooved tyres, bar tread, at £l5 each.
2 11.00 x 20 S/H grooved tyres, at £l2/10/- each.
2 9.00 x 20 tyres, rough—plenty of tread, at £8 each.
1 10.00 x 20 S/H tyre, bar tread, £7/10/-.
I—lo 00 x 20 S/H tyre, bar tread, £l5.
20 9.00 x 16 Standard tread (never been used), at £2O each.
FOREMAN TYRE REPAIR SERVICE
195 Victoria Rd., Marrickville, N.S.W. Phone: LM5894
We can repair ANY Type of Tyre made anywhere in
the world.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directort: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Dueebury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. 0. Parleer.
H. H. MOULTON,
’Phone: BW 8861.
Managing Director.
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
KEROSENE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
Recjcl.
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★
★
★
★
★
★
100% BRITISH.
SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
BURNS 12 HOURS ON l£ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
A MODERN
SANITARY
SYSTEM
For all unsewered areas
stem
mm
m
Si
immffiiSiil
The
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Even if you live in an unsewered area where there is no water supply,
you can still enjoy modern sanitation.
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. No more
unpleasant emptying! Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained
sanitary system that chemically transforms sewerage into a sterile
solution. This passes automatically to an underground sump and is
absorbed into the soil.
GUARANTEED. Strongly constructed with all-over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install—write now for free illus-
trated pamphlet. Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
Singapore :
N.Z.:
N. Guinea:
- DISTRIBUTORS'
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St., The Valley,
Brisbane. „ „
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vie.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building,. King
William Street, Adelaide.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (W.A.), 349 William St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or ‘Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also Launceston,
Tasmania. '
C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
Global Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port Moresby.
champion, Cornville Victor’s
Empress 3, exhibited by N. M-
Newton, of Whorouly (Vic.), was
outstanding. Runner-up was
G. A. Evans and Sons’ Ovenslea
Nancy. Despite the general
superiority of the females, Mr.
Phillips warned against the
tendency of some heifers to be
too leggy to have poor udder
attachments (a danger of baggi-
ness later); and poorly placed
teats.
Jerseys were plentiful this year
—record entries of 621. After
making his awards, the judge,
M. W. Eckermann, of Eudunda
(S.A.), commented on the prize-
winners through a public-
address system.
This method of keeping the
spectator in the picture, which
was a great success at the Sydney
Royal Show, should be more
generally adopted.
Champion cow, the six-year-
old Katandra Silvermine, bred
and exhibited by F- A. Burgman,
of Katandra West (Vic.), was
described as “every inch a cham-
pion.” She was very placid in
the ring, had excellent color and
conformation, and showed better
balance than the runner-up,
Glenavon Duchess 10, exhibited
by Mrs. Sylvia Askew, of Sale
(Vic.). Champion and reserve-
champion were from the same
class.
Both the “aged cow in milk”
and “aged cow, dry,” classes
were outstanding.
There was plenty of competi-
tion throughout the bull classes,
from which H. Prince’s (Red
Hill, Vic.) Wilda Park Truman
and A. Domaille’s (Swan Hill,
Vic.) Bemersyde Alexander
emerged as champion and
reserve-champion respectively.
The former was a good rangy
bull of excellent outline, nice
color with a little “broken,” and
typical Jersey-sire characteristics:
a better head than the runner-
up, and superior in conforma-
tion and outline. The reserve-
champion had very nice balance.
There was a mild sensation
around the Friesian ring when
the judge, V. J. Lamond, of
Nowra (N.S.W.) —one of Aus-
tralia’s outstanding Friesian
owners —ordered two of the final
three cows out of the ring to
be milked and gave his premier
award to the one which was in
calf. The champion was the six-
year-old Primrose Pauline,
owned by M. J. Vallence, of
Darley (Vic.). The “best vessel”
award went to Upper Lappan
Magpie Ollie, bred and exhibited
by G. L. S. Cowan and Son, of
Bacchus Marsh (Vic.).
In general, said Mr. Lamond,
bulls were better than heifers
and cows. The champion bull,
four-year-old Brundee Lunta
Julian, exhibited by Jack Burg-
man, of Katandra West (Vic.),
was as good as could be seen
anywhere. Reserve-champion
was' the older Indiana Nether-
land Julian, owned, by J. V. Platt-
fuss (Finley, N.S.W.), last year’s
champion. Mr. Plattfuss also
exhibited the reserve-champion
cow, Galaview Margaret, which
was champion for the previous
three years.
Mr. Lamond’s main advice to
breeders was to watch tail-set-
tings and leg-weaknesses.
W. W. Oliver, of Tasmania,
judged a particularly good line-
up of Ayrshires. Cows and
bulls were even throughout.
Female championship went to
the three-year-old Holly bank
Ambition, exhibited by G. V.
Bingham, of Warragul (Vic.),
which won preference over the
“dry” reserve-champion Dela-
mere Lady Merleen, owned by
A. J. and R. Parker, of Kyabram
(Vic.).
The evergreen A. Facey, of
Millicent (S.A.), exhibited the
champion bull, three-year-old
Glengowrie Baron Willie 2,
which was too good in the under-
line for reserve-champion Glen
Cooee Caretaker, entered by Mill
Bros., of Axedale (Vic.). A.
Facey and Son have been suc-
cessful at every post-war Mel-
bourne Show.
T. O. Jaensch, of Hamilton
(Vic.), who judged the Dairy
Shorthorns, liked the bulls
better than the cows and heifers.
Atkinson Bros., of Swan Hill
(Vic.), took all the major female
prizes. Top seniors were both
sired by the mighty Churchill
Paradox 20, whose burly frame
was missing after many years of
show-ring success. The two
leading juniors were by Willow
Park Paradox 31.
Atkinson Bros, also bred the
champion bull, Willow Park
Paradox • 25, by Churchill
Paradox 20 and exhibited this
year by T. Gass, of Koyuga
(Vic.); and junior-champion
Willow Park Paradox 73, also by
Churchill Paradox 20, and ex-
hibited by Atkinsons. L. Hop-
kins, of Glenluce (Vic.), and
McCombe Bros,, of Horsham
(Vic.), exhibited the junior and
senior reserve-champion bulls.
Lowana.
Parakeelya
Tell “Norque” (B. 18/5/*55)
that very small mobs of sheep
have also put up many records
of existence without water on
country which has had no para-
keelya. And “Breck” (B.
l/6/’55) should know that State
Agricultural Departments have
often been requested to study
the plant to find the cause of the
urinary calculi it induces.
Every one of the 60 paddocks
in this 700,000-acre property
[Mr. MacKinnon writes from
Pinnacles Station, Leonora,
W.A.] has been covered with
parakeelya and “junga” (a some-
what similar pigface-like plant
generally referred to as para-
keelya) four times in the last 30
years. This shows that, here at
least, the plant is transitory in
incidence. It will last from
February, when big rains start
it, until December. This year,
after 18in. (to July 31*)' in an
Bin.-rainfall area, it will last
until January: which should
show that it is transitory in be-
havior. We have not known it
to appear in two consecutive
years, therefore “Quo Vadis’s”
inference that drinking-water is
unnecessary in the areas which
(Continued on next page )


frg'NEW!
ff IP Wm E if I
- " 1"
FI El- 0
tor° il
MO
Jwo STROKE
mt
-c tut tA^° US
NE
S ud.
factory • * >->
-,h B.S>- approved,
vritn »• oil °PP i-td.
!So&>
.o.l.lw'"'- ’■^uloelo'7
A. PRESnW'CH lN nd enlireW oU fully
\lStOCIo» 7
, * prco*'" -. f oU na ••■■■:- • , oil M'y
non " na ’
‘recommende • G , WEE RIWG CO. >• ol \
BRITISH AHZjjHkS, Tvjin engine .
!% '"oroved °" n '° de ' Sv
fuUy opprov -
L.Oil ' esled a all models.
° P Xrco N c £ ss,o N M«s,'Sr“«
ik S"v i"”“ s r«v» k ’ o *”"'
, , ot
Engines. ,- op ‘
«i«ts jsrsw-
„ iro ._o,, - -
' &ss*»-
NOW! the one and only
truly SELF-MIXING oil
Castrol introduces a new instant self-mixing oil
specially devised for use in two-stroke engines.
Check all the exclusive features of this amazing
new oil and you will agree that it is the answer
for two-stroke lubrication.
o o o o o o
Gives instant perfect mix with any petrol.
Simple ratio of £ pint oil to each gallon
of petrol.
Piston rings are kept free in their grooves.
A patented anti-corrosive additive pro-
tects engine bearings.
Spark plug efficiency is increased; oiling-
up, point-bridging and carbon deposits
minimised.
Blocking of exhaust ports by carbon
deposits is greatly reduced.
, Castrol Two Stroke Self-Mixing Oil is available in
quart and gallon tins and 4-gallon drums from all
Castrol resellers.
CSM.4
(osiarf
TWO STROKE SELF-MIXING OIL
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BABRERB
acts like a hand
■when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has - proved completely successful by
nil who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
barrere distribution CO.
(Dept. 3w), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
grow parakeelya is unsound and
misleading.
No one would doubt A. L.
Rose’s assertion that cattle will
live for years on parakeelya
without free water. What he
does not mention is that para-
keelya only grows after heavy
rains, does not last through the
summer, and that the country
on which it grows (not only red
sandhill, but every type in this
area) is usually 7in. to 9in.
average and seldom gets good
seasons.
Botanist Chippendale cer-
tainly adds knowledge to “Man
on the Land” when he tells us
that there are 150 known species
of the plant and that 15 or 20
grow in Queensland and N.T.
We know of only four here.
But it is a wonder that A. L.
Rose, in his capacity as head
of the N.T. Animal Industry
Division, did not mention the
dire effect our species of para-
keelya has on wethers: losses of
up to 80 per cent, can be
suffered through the urinary
calculi it induces. From obser-
vations here the condition takes
from three to five months to
build up ; the urethra then be-
comes blocked at the hair-pin
bend it takes through the pelvis,
the bladder swells and bursts,
and Australia loses one of its
wealth-producers.
Many scientists of various
nationalities have studied urinary
calculi; most of them agree that
the condition is due to an im-
balance of diet, generally to a
gross excess of calcium. What-
ever it is, there is no relief until
the plant withers in the heat of
the summer and the sheep begin
to drink “free” water.
Ewes, owing to their different
structure, are not affected, and
rams according to South
African scientists Steyn and
Reinach —are less prone to
suffer than wethers. This squares
with observation here.
The only effective answer to
a parakeelya season—in this
country, anyway—is to crowd
sufficient ewes into a few pad-
docks until they have eaten the
plant out, and then put the
wethers in those paddocks until
the summer has dried the plant
up.
D. D. MacKinnon.
Glassy Spuds
“Mesa”: Glass-like parts of
potatoes —common last season
when many cooked spuds turned
pulpy and had a disagreeable
flavor —occur when a prolonged
dry spell, late in the growing
season, is followed by rain.
Moisture causes growth to be
resumed, and starchy food is
transferred from the “heel” end
of the tuber to new growth.
Victorian potato expert G. H.
Mattingley says “glassy-end”
can occur also when the harvest-
ing of a mature crop is delayed.
Affected parts of tubers often
develop a clear, jellylike rot.
“Glassy-end”—described offi-
cially in Victoria for the first
time in 1929 —has now been
reported from other parts of the
world.
Electric Foster-mother
“Billjim”: Reported from the
U.K. —an electric foster-mother
for piglets. The device is of
particular advantage for large
litters. The machine overcomes
the need for the sow to suckle
more than nine piglets at a time
—the maximum number the
mother can handle if the piglets
are to develop to the best
advantage.
The “foster - mother” is a
robust cylindrical earthenware
vessel of two-gallon capacity,
fitted with an electric immersion-
heater, with fully thermostati-
cally controlled heat. At regu-
lar intervals around the walls
are nine nozzles on which re-
newable rubber teats are fitted.
There is also provision for the
incorporation of infra - red
lamps.
Another advantage of the
machine is that it can be left
on all night without fear of
damage, piglets dining as they
feel inclined. '
Farm Hints
“Bill C.”: Watch out for
noogoora-burr poisoning in
cattle after spring rains. The
burr germinates within a week
in hot weather, and cattle may
tackle the young plants in the
absence of grass. In its early
stages noogoora is poisonous
enough to kill stock in half a
day; they could eat it at dusk
and be dead in the morning.
Examination shows inflamma-
tion of the digestive organs, as
though animals had taken
arsenic. Hormone-sprays are
effective against noogoora in all
growing stages.
“Wilco”: Maize-cobs may
also be turned into good char-
coal for pigs (B. 7/9/’55). Put
them in a heap with some small
wood, and light. Douse with
water when a mass of red-hot
coals. Another wrinkle: soak
the old cobs to saturation in a
cask of water, then put half-a-
dozen in each hole when trans-
planting tomatoes.
“C.A.A.”: Prudent use of
dairy-products can hasten the
growth of chickens raised to
six-weeks-old. Milk-powder is
better than whey because of its
higher protein - content. Five
pounds of skim- or butter-milk
powder in every 1001 b. of mash
will replace 31b. of meatmeal:
an advantage during periodic
shortages of the meal.
“Spot”: Concrete yards and
floors are fine for dairies, but
sweeping a large area of con-
crete after the cows have been
on it for some time is tough
work. Wet the concrete before
the cows come in—mud and
manure don’t stick to wet
concrete so tenaciously.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(25/9/’55)
The trend of the season still conforms to the estimates,
and the recent rains in Victoria have coincided with the
reappearance of sunspot outbreaks. This should give rain
and showers about October 2 and 3.
Apart from moderate falls on portion of the south
coast, Curtis and Moreton, and light rain on the Darling
Downs and south-west during October, rainfall in Queens-
land should be consistently light until December, when
moderate rains may bring relief in the western division.
In N.S.W. during October, moderate, rain should occur
on the coast, with rather heavier rain between Sydney and
Jervis Bay. Moderate rain is also indicated on the southern
tablelands, south-west slopes and north-west slopes and
plains: for the balance of the State, showers and light rain.
Victoria and South Australia should receive light to
moderate rains, mainly below normal, but in W.A. reason-
ably good rain should occur on the south coast and south-
eastern division.
LENNOX WALKER.


OVER THE BRIDGE
An essay in autobiography
RICHARD CHURCH
“His readers will be grateful, for music and poetry, symbolism and quiet
humour, echo and ripple through his autobiography.” (Melb. Herald, 27/8/’55.)
At all booksellers - - - 22/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
AUCKLAND
A book you must read
HALF-SAFE
bp BEN CARLIN
ACROSS THE ATLANTIC BY JEEP
Sometimes an amateur writer comes along who can do better with an out-of-the-
ordinary story than a professional. Ben Carlin is one of them. His direct and
racy style, his wry understatements and his humour have turned his journey into
one of the best adventure stories of our time.
COLLINS
21s. Od.
PUBLISHERS
■
m
AUSTRALIAN BUSH BALLADS
edited by Douglas Stewart and Nancy Keesing—a
comprehensive selection of the best ballads of the nineties,
including the old favourites by men such as “Banjo”
Paterson, Will Ogilvie and Henry Lawson, and a great
many colourful ballads by little-known writers. The
range of the work extends from the sixties of the last
century to beyond the 1914-18 war. Handsome large
volume.
30/- (past 1/1)
Obtainable from all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
At Newsagencies and Bookshops
The True Story of the
“KELLY GANG”
IN STRIP FORM
Over 400 pictures. This is a must for the bookshelves of
every Australian home
PRICE ::
• •
• •
2/-
milord. He was a comparatively
impoverished theatrical producer —he
should have been, as a husband
for the extravagant Miss Lawrence’s
later years, a multi-millionaire.
He had a pure-hearted American
boy’s belief that the theatre was
capable of better things—he should
have been at least as polished and
adroit a manipulator as Coward him-
self. He should have been one of the
international sophisticates to whom
nothing is new and nothing surprising
—and although he was on the New
York social register and was struck off
for marrying even so distinguished and
glamorous an actress as Gertrude
Lawrence, his lineage was of the most
rigid Protestantism, his father and
mother were attenders at Bible-confer-
ences, his mother’s first question on
hearing he was engaged was “Who is
Gertrude Lawrence?” and she stated
the family’s attitude to the marriage
after a family-conference: “We will not
mention it to anyone. Naturally, none
of the people we know will mention it
to us.”
It is not surprising that Mr. Coward,
surveying this synopsis, looked at Mr.
Aldrich with “a quizzical smile playing
across his lean and elegant face,” and
said “You’re a brave man—marrying
Gertie.” He told Mr. Aldrich that
Miss Lawrence had explained her
capitulation: “Because he’s the only
man who never yessed me.” Then Mr.
Coward smiled again: “Keep it up, old
boy. If you can.”
Mr. Aldrich kept it up, up till he and
“Mrs. A,” as she insisted on signing
herself, went to war. At first his main
difficulty was to tone-down her presen-
tation. He would find her packing
his clothes for a business trip in scented
tissue-paper, shout at her that this was
not to be, and have her collapse in
tears —a poor, weak little woman. Or,
his mother having consented to visit
them at their seaside home, “Mrs. A”
would cook alleged American deli-
cacies that neither he nor his mother
could eat; and, anxious that the
Sabbath should be the kind of Sabbath
Mrs. Aldrich senior was used to, she
hid all the Sunday newspapers, where-
upon her aged mother-in-law had to
confess that since her husband had died
she had developed the habit of taking
a paper up to her bedroom after the
midday meal on Sundays.
As Gertrude Lawrence’s husband,
Mr. Aldrich was drawn into the con-
spiracy with her lawyers, the Holtz-
manns, to stop her running into another
bankruptcy, and they had words more
than once about his sending purchases
back to shops; but altogether it was a
great success, and nobody enjoyed
more than Mr. Aldrich “Mrs. A’s”
carpeting the bathroom, or painting the
house, or covering the garage with a
mat (which was seized up into the
works of the car and cost many dollars
to free) because the concrete floor
looked bare.
The early stages of the war, when
Mr. Aldrich became a naval lieutenant,
produced a serviceman’s wife of solici-
tude and charm; their reunion in a
blacked-out hotel-room of an English
seaport had everything; but the fortunes
of war, and Miss Lawrence’s adven-
tures as a field-entertainer in both the
European and Pacific theatres (she
seems to have had a very strenuous
time indeed), gave her a sense of free-
dom; and when her husband returned
to America, still in the Navy, she ran
out on him in Chicago after a quarrel
about whether or not she could make
dinner-engagements for him. He fol-
lowed, and cut-in on her dancing at a
night-club with “one of the most
powerful figures in the Chicago under-
world”; from his description it must
have seemed to the night-club crowd
that he had wrenched her out of the
magnifico’s arms. Hustled out of the
club, and back to their apartment,
she raged until she was informed of
the deadly possibilities of her dancing-
partner; then she dissolved in admira-
tion: “Richard! They might have shot
you!” But the great man telephoned,
instead, his regrets, and when next she
visited Chicago there was a huge urn
of lilies with his compliments to Mr.
and Mrs. Aldrich.
Next, a storm blew up in New York
about the freedom of “Mrs. A’s” letters
to servicemen, and, unable to get a
quiet moment with her, Mr. Aldrich
arranged an interview in the Holtz-
manns’ empty flat (“he hired a hall,”
as she told people afterwards) to thrash
the matter out; and at about this time,
if the Holtzmanns hadn’t taken a
hand, they might have gone on the
rocks. But from then on their marriage
went well, surviving her long and
triumphal season in England, and
many tours and absences in the U.S.
until her unexpected death.
What exactly “going well” may
mean may be learned from the tangle
of inconsequential detail that makes all
marriages. It is expertly presented here
over a trellis of her crowded life of
public appearances: her last plays,
“September Tide,” “The King and I,”
“Pygmalion,” etc.; her resource in
getting everyone to bring blankets to
improve the acoustics of Mayor La
Guardia’s theatre; her emergence, full
of pride, as a university professor—of
acting; her letters that must have curled
round the recipient’s heart as she her-
self seemed to curl round everything on
the stage; her famous telegrams,
rhymed or in prose, of which the best
of many reproduced here must be that
sent to her lieutenant-husband on St.
Valentine’s Day:'—
Ahoy there sailor on this day
many vows may come your way but
should you to others stoop I still
would love you cause you’re my old
poop remember me I’m that gal you
married. Mrs. A.
If as a marriage it was a work of
art, it certainly justified Mr. Aldrich
in keeping for himself what he now can
well afford to give away to the admira-
tion and envy of all men.
Reviewed Briefly
The Trial of Jomo Kenyatta:
Montagu Slater (Seeker and Warburg).
Kenyatta was convicted and im-
prisoned in 1953 by a Kenya magistrate
on a charge of being leader of the
Mau-Mau. The Supreme Court of
Kenya dismissed his appeal and the
Privy Council refused, on legal grounds,
to hear a further appeal. Mr. Slater
frankly admits, in his foreword to this
report of the trial, that his own
sympathies “would be more likely to
be on the side of the leaders of the
theTd/tf C the lcS of°Mau-Mau!”
* * +
The Moonflower: Beverley Nichols
(Hutchinson). It is a little sad to see
Mr. Nichols, who could cut a man
open from head to foot with a word,
studiously sticking to the rules of
detective-story presentation in this
ingenious story of the murder of a dear
old lady who liked to have everyone
under her thumb: her son and his wife,
her secretary, her gardener and even an
explorer. Mr. Nichols’s private
detective, Mr. Green, has come to see
her “Moonflower” orchid, worth
£lOOO a tuber, brought back from
South America by the explorer; but on
her death it is her diamonds which
seem to have caused the crime,
* * * *
Pewonaßties and Powers: Sir Lewis
Naimer (Hamilton), Essays m history,
ranging from the Long Parliament to
Hitler, with words by the way on the
East India Company, George 111 and
“Human Nature in Politics.” The
characteristics of Sir Lewis’s approach
are balance, sobriety and penetration;
he has a rare ability to sum-up and
clarify a complete historical situation
—such as “Diplomacy in the Inter-War
Period, 1919-1939”—in a short essay;
and he has also a sure understanding
of personality, as demonstrated in his
very human George 111 and his
singularly inhuman Hitler.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 350
Across
I—Leo as a revolutionary rising
with the nobler lie. (9)
s—Fancies one is in a danger time
for Caesar. (5)
B—Bear8 —Bear spoilt the object’s steps in
spells from running gaps that
live. (9, 6)
10— Those with plugs in the middle
of the ears are not worried by
this one in the middle of the
nose. (5)
11 — Run-out by Keaton, thus being
in better health. (8)
13—About fellows who rule for
others? (7)
16 — None but relations go to a State
island near Japan when Otto
Klemperer joins an Australian
radio company. (7)
17— Beard of the corn. (3)
18— Cove sat with this month’s birds
for stretches not to be managed
by toddler pianists. (7)
20—Fish mislaid letters. (7)
22 —Quieter Matilda interrupts the
senior. (8)
24 —Gilbertian swearing up against
the French double. (5)
26 —It’s a blow when Keaton joins
an Australian literary magazine.
(9, 6)
27 — His output was fabulous. (5)
28 — Not avoiding a hazard when
taking on coal. (9)
Down
1 — Hood on a new husband in the
dressing chamber. (6, 4)
2 A circle of drones drinking. (7)
3 Fired about a quantity of liquor
or other fluid. (5)
4 Frostier. (5)
5 Yours Truly is a voice in
grammar not easily moved. (9)
6 Refuse. (7)
7 Alarm nothing which is neither
good nor bad. (2-2)
9 —Monkeys with a world authority
on stamp values. (7)
12 —Sydney suburb to make a chess
move against Alderman Agnes.
(10)
14 — North American boy’s joint fleet
unit. (5, 4)
15 — Saucier American found in the
Kansas Sierras. (7)
19—A little bird rams canters. (7)
21 —Great pianist responsible for
impudence at the seaside plant.
(7)
23 — Lindwall bowling? This is the
stuff to give an artist over there.
(5)
24 — It is the keynote custom to
plunge suddenly into water. (5)
25 —Here is plenty of ground for
articles about the Latin assent.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 349


WRAPPING UP AUSTRALIA
s=3Ksr-ts=.-
%
isS^gs
9
Hft
-«**■
«©
m
M
%
>2
W'M'A
r<*M
«r
m.
U
S///
w*
m.
':■ ■
m
How paper protects our health
ONE decisive weapon against the spread of disease
and sickness in a community is cleanliness. About
three years ago, as a result of public demand, many
Australian bread manufacturers began wrapping bread.
Before long, A.P.M. — Australian Paper Manufacturers
Ltd., — developed a tough, hygienic paper especially
for this purpose. This paper is waxed and printed by
paper convertors who then supply it to the bread trade.
As well as ensuring utmost cleanliness in bread handling,
paper-wrapped bread remains fresher, so that it can be
sliced for the customers’ convenience and yet remain soft
and moist down to the last slice. Waste is eliminated.
A.P.M. produce 160 kinds of paper and 140 kinds of
paperboard*. These are made by others into a great
variety of finished products that make work easier, or
reduce costs, or make life more pleasant in countless ways.
*The term paperboard embraces cardboard, fibre-board and
other heavy weight papers. Basically the same raw materials
are used jor paperboard and paper.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne
with Mills at: Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale and Broadford in
Victoria, Botany, N.S.W., and Petrie, Q’ld. (under construction).
