

wtrineh I
e
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
/\
The Bulletin
POISON IN THE CITY AIR —PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3915
Wednesday, February 23, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
A MONUMENT TO FAITH AND PERSEVERANCE: BUCKFAST ABBEY
ABBEYS form an important part of Britain’s heritage of medieval archi-
tecture, both in the variety and quality of their construction and in
their impressive numbers distributed throughout the British Isles.
The earliest monastic foundations were destroyed in the course of the
Danish invasions but there followed a fruitful period of rebuilding in the
middle of the tenth century. It was, however, in the eleventh, twelfth and
thirteenth centuries —the period immediately following the Norman Conquest,
when there was close contact with Continental influences —that the greatest
building activity took place; and the monastic orders quickly assumed an
important part in the life of the country.
A great number of monks did not survive the Black Death in 1349 and
this pestilence almost brought an end to the building of the monasteries and
abbeys. After that date there was a general lessening in their influence until
the Dissolution in 1536-39 during the reign of Henry VIII. Many of the
buildings were allowed to go to ruin and only about one-third of their
original number remain in a substantial form today but examples may be
seen in almost every country in the British Isles.
In Devonshire are the ruins of Torre Abbey, incorporated in a private
house, and Buckfast Abbey, which is shown in the accompanying illustration.
It lies in the sheltered valley of the River Dart and is a unique example of
a monastery arising from its original foundations after nearly three hundred
and fifty years of neglect. It came to life again in 1882 when a community
of French Benedictines purchased the site. Twenty-four years later, in 1906,
rebuilding of the Abbey Church was begun although there were no funds
available for this work. It was carried out in 32 years by the Abbot Anscar
Vonier and his small band of brothers, who depended entirely upon their
own personal efforts. No more than six brethren were employed on the
building at any one time, and of these only one was a practical mason. He,
however, trained the others, and the Abbey as it stands today is a monument
to their skill and perseverance. Buckfast was consecrated in 1932, and in
1938, three weeks after seeing the completion of his great work of rebuilding,
Abbot Vonier died. The 15th-century tower is the only remaining part of
the original Abbey.


BOOKHUNTER will save you time. Let
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
select and buy your reading matter. ,
Write to BOOKHUNTER indicating your/
taste in book*.
The Red Page
JEMMY GREEN IN AUSTRALIA
In Jemmy Green in Australia
(Angus and Robertson) Dr. Colin
Roderick has unearthed a play which
may well become a minor Australian
classic.
If it attains this happy fate, and one
can hardly imagine that it will ever
again be forgotten, it will be partly the
result of a chronological accident. That
is, it is a very early piece of Australian
theatrical writing, therefore to be
treasured with the odes of Michael
Massey Robinson, Ned Kelly’s tin
helmet, Leichhardt’s boot-buttons and
anything else that may survive from
the beginnings of colonisation.
It is, moreover, a very special piece
of Australiana in that Dr. Roderick
attributes it to James Tucker, the con-
vict whom he claimed to be the author
of “Ralph Rashleigh.” Two copies of
the play exist in what is said to be
Tucker’s handwriting, and Dr.
Roderick, as he states in his introduc-
tion, learned from Charles Edwin
Dick, a pioneer of Maitland, of
two other plays by Tucker, now lost,
entitled “Makin’ Money” and “Who
Built That Cosy Cottage?” There is
also, still extant though not published,
an historical drama again said to be
in Tucker’s handwriting entitled “The
Grahame’s Vengeance, or The Fate of
James the First, King of Scotland.”
Mr. Roderick credits Tucker with, as
well as these four plays, so varied in
subject-matter, two other lost novels
or “histories” as well as “Ralph Rash-
leigh”—a lot of writing, though not
necessarily more than may have been
possible, for an author in his unhappy
circumstances.
Though Dr. Roderick presents an
impressive array of evidence for
Tucker’s authorship (which will
doubtless be sifted by those better
qualified than the present reviewer for
such a task) there is little in
the style and tone of “Jemmy Green
in Australia” to indicate that it is by
the same writer as “Ralph Rashleigh.”
It deals very lightly with matters of
exploitation and injustice that were
treated with passionate indignation in
the novel; and, instead of the keen
observation of many national types and
wide range of characterisation that dis-
tinguish “Ralph Rashleigh,” the
characters, though keenly set down,
are mostly conventional cockney
types, rather like a distillation from
“Oliver Twist,” with the observation
of dialogue practically restricted to
cockney cadences and the humor of
displaced “v’s” and “w’s” —“veil” for
“well” and “wery” for “very” and so
on, in the manner of Sam Weller. One
could hazard a guess that the author
had founded his play not only on the
old Maitland song of “Billy Barlow
in Australia,” as Dr. Roderick acutely
observes, but also on some popular
cockney stage-piece of the period. Was
there ever a play on the London stage
dealing with the woes of a Jemmy
Green?
However, there is nothing inherently
improbable in the submission that the
author of an essentially tragic novel
could also write a light comedy for the
stage; and we may note that it is the
tribulations of a free immigrant, not a
convict, with which Tucker is dealing
here: a subject which he may well
have regarded with a lighter heart and
which would have been greatly
relished, no doubt, by the convict
audience for whom the play was
written. Further, in two respects it is
perhaps possible to trace some affinity
with “Ralph Rashleigh”: in the
picaresque method of construction, and
in the firm simplicity of the style . . .
for, as well as its historical interest,
“Jemmy Green in Australia” has
distinct literary qualities to recom-
mend it for a permanent place in our
literature.
I There are no words wasted in this
iting. It moves swiftly and directly
lere it wants to go. And the inset
ssages of narration, when Jemmy
•een is describing his adventures,
ve, though very different in their
morous cockney tone, much of the
ift clarity of comparable passages in
Lalph Rashleigh”:—
Oh! Lord! Oh dear! Votever
shall I do? Vot a wery pretty
mess I’m in now. This here is
vorse than ever. Here have I been
two days lost in this here vilder-
ness and an’t had nothing at all to
eat and wery little vater to drink.
First of all the sheep runs avay.
And then that blackguard of a
shepherd, instead of helping to
look for ’em, he valks avay. Next
thing I must show how cunning
I vos by galloping avay thro’ the
bush to hunt after ’em until all at
vunst I come alongside of a
vopping big tree, ven vun of the
boughs cotched me under the chin
and lifted me out of the saddle as
clean as a vistle. Off vent the
horse like mad. I run and hollered,
but the faster I run the further I
got behind, and then night come
on. Good Lord, how it did rain!
So vilst I vas a-standing under a
tree a big lump of a limb broke
off and fell down, vollop, close to
my nose . . .
It is, to be sure, a very simple little
lay; short, slight, and the method of
instruction, though rounded into a
lot, developing with the utmost
aivety as a series of picaresque
dventures.
Jemmy Green lands in Sydney ; is
old a non-existent town-lot and an
p-country station by a couple of
ogues; is waylaid by a bushranger on
is way to the station; gets there and
mds the cattle can’t be mustered in
he wild bush and the sheep, such as
;an be found, are infested with scab;
s ruined, pressed for monstrous debts;
;omes back to Sydney and unmasks
he villains, at the same time falling
lappily into the arms and fortune of
lis cockney sweetheart, who, arriving
;harmingly but somewhat belatedly
nto the action, has almost been tricked
nto marriage with the son of one of
he rogues.
It is all so elementary that one has
10 difficulty at all in imagining its
laving been hastily put together by a
convict of some talent to amuse his
fellow-convicts in the amateur theatri-
cals which lightened their not wholly
unhappy lot at Emu Plains or Port
Macquarie.
But then, so is “The Beggars’ Opera”
(always a delight to read, often revived
on the English stage and lately made
into a film with the help of Christopher
Fry) an exceedingly simple piece . . .
in fact it is by its extreme simplicity,
aided by its swiftness of movement and
frank delight in villainy and misfor-
tune, that it seems to have survived.
And these, if Tucker is not quite so
cynically tolerant of his rogues, are
very much the qualities which stand
firm in “Jemmy Green in Australia.”
The play is, in a word, amusing; and
it is unique in Australian playwriting
—such of it as is available in print—
as a period-piece.
It is typical of the lamentable state
of the theatre in this country —even in
1825 “The Australian” was complain-
ing that the convicts at Emu Plains
had better theatrical entertainment
than Sydney —and at the same time
typical of the much more energetic
approach of the A.8.C., that the first
performance of “Jemmy Green” since
Tucker’s day was broadcast in 1952.
Leslie Rees, the A.B.C.’s drama editor,
has written in praise of its “quick
movement, sharp-edged characterisa-
tion and flair for spicy, zestful
vernacular.”
Possibly filled-out with “Billy
Barlow” and other songs of the period
and carefully stylised to catch the
period atmosphere, it would surely be
popular in the commercial theatre; for
jit is not to be believed that the immense
public interest in Australian, as
evidenced by the sales of all kinds of
historical and documentary books
since the end of World War 11, would
not extend in the fullest measure to a
living presentation of our past on the
stage. “Jemmy Green” would also
make an excellent basis for an opera or
ballet—and one much nearer our own
experience and needs than the
aboriginal themes which most of the
musicians have been attempting,
pleasantly enough, to graft on to our
culture.
Plays from Europe
Sartre’s Kean (Hamilton) and
Pirandello’s Six Characters in Search
of an Author (Heinemann) are alike
in their use of the play-within-a-play,
a device at least as old as “The Taming
of the Shrew” and the comedies of
Dekker, but which nevertheless gives
an effect of modern fluency and
freedom.
Sartre uses the device in only one
scene, which reads unconvincingly and
would probably be hard to put success-
fully on the stage. He has Edmund
Kean the actor, who is the central figure
of his play, doing “Othello” at Drury
Lane, partnered by an inexperienced
Desdemona who is in love with him
and who forgets her lines.
Kean, rather irritably attracted to
this lady, is more urgently in love—or
thinks he is—with another lady who
is occupying a box at the theatre with
the Prince of Wales (King George IV),
a rival for her affections; and the
implausibility of the scene occurs when
Kean breaks up his performance to
insult the Prince. Even if it is under-
stood that neither the historical Kean
nor the historical George IV is
intended to be portrayed, this public
quarrelling with Royalty seems too
much for an English audience to
swallow.
However, the play is, in spite of this
awkward interlude, a very jolly roar-
ing comedy, more-or-less in the 18th-
century manner, of ladies meeting their
lovers, and leaving their fans to be
discovered by their husbands, and
popping in and out of cupboards and
secret doors, and all that kind of thing.
It is chiefly notable for its portrait of
Kean, who, though admittedly not his-
torically accurate, comes out very
robustly both as a rake and as an
actor.
Sartre rewrote it from a play which
Theaulon wrote for Frederick Lemaitre
in 1836, taking only five days to do
the job, with the result that it had to
be rewritten by Dumas pere, who got
a run of over 100 performances at the
Theatre des Varietes with it. The pub-
lishers claim that Sartre has added his
Existentialist philosophy to the
original; but this reviewer, never
having learned even to pronounce the
word Existentialism, must beg to be
excused from trying to determine
exactly where that creeps in.
In Luigi Pirandello’s classic, here
translated by Frederick May in the
first English version of the Sicilian’s
final text, the play-within-the-play
device is, of course, basic to the entire
construction.
The actors, rehearsing a play, are on
stage peacefully jockeying for the
limelight when in come the tragic
Mother, the shamefaced Father, the
ebullient Stepdaughter and the indig-
nant procuress, straight from life’s
squalor and violence and, announcing
that they are characters in search of an
author, preceed to re-enact the sordid
drama of their lives in front of the
astonished company.
And here the device has many uses:
not only in freeing the stage from
convention, not only in giving the most
striking effect of immediacy and
reality—here is life itself bursting on
to the stage—but, most importantly,
of giving a certain dignity and
grandeur (the frame of the stage), and
also a lightening of comedy, to a
drama which otherwise, however
passionate and intense, would be
too squalid a study in low-life.
THE WATERFALL
We never went back. Doubtless all tbat
we knew
is gone now. over the fall
in terms of atoms, molecules, drops,
eddies,
is not that water, the same leaping silver;
the trees have tried new leaves year after
year;
and we cannot tread twice on the same
earth.
Even the grey rocks are not as we saw
them,
since light has rushed somewhere out in
space
which made them rocks for eyes hardly
these eyes.
We might perhaps touch again rough sur-
faces,
but not with changed hands declare them
unchanged.
Nor is it enough to say: “The mind keeps
days, places, happenings; nothing is lost.
I would not dispute the mind’s vision as
truth
or deny its vast permanence; but there is
more
to take into account than preserved
moments.
For water breaks from the cliff always;
and breaks
while we recall it thus breaking long since,
whether or not other eyes watch it now.
Therefore it must be said places endure
more than just in our minds, here, else-
where,
or at some saved instant. And under
change
the changeless breathes air with no taste
of time;
and though not your breathing nor places
breathing,
for these pass, it seems their shadows
passing
and lacking shadows blank, empty, un-
known.
A self clings tp the changed place, and is
its life still; as the heart knows, perceiv-
ing
how what the fall is, is the old thought
of water becoming mist melting in mist,
of green dripping scrub little more solid
than green mist would be, and of free void
disguised as rock, dropping to final mist.
It is a drift, then a quickening of waters
towards the gay leap to justify being—
a thing surely of spirit, not atoms, mole-
cules;
and so it endures, though we never went
back
pushing our way through stiff tea-tree,
nor back
to youth and the first days of love
threaded
with beads that mist put in your dress
and hair.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITSGERALD.
The Road to El Dorado
Books like The Rivers Ran East,
by Leonard Clark (Hutchinson), can
be so good you can’t quite believe
them. Colonel Clark, war-time
guerrilla behind Japanese lines, adven-
turer all over the world, went into the
upper-Amazon territories of Peru and
Ecuador with his last 1000 dollars in
search of the El Dorado cities of old
Spain; and came out with enough gold
in bamboo-containers to drag 16,000
dollars from a Quito broker before the
broker skipped over the Colombian
frontier with the gold and the balance
owing.
From Lima Colonel Clark went to
La Merced, and then, with practically
what he stood up in, his 1000 dollars,
and his friend Jorge, the scion of a
great Peruvian landowning family, he
moved into the jungle; their last view
of civilisation being in the jungle-
hacienda of an English coffee- and
fruit-grower, who sent them on by
dugout towards an Indian missionary
and a prospector called Valeria, the
only known friends of civilisation in
the jungle.
Near the mission they were met by
a huge Campa brave wearing a set ol
false-teeth from a string round his
neck: they were Valeria’s, the pros-
pector’s; he had been dispensed with.
The Puna Indian missionary’s business
turned out to be the taming of slaves
for the seawards ranches; his was an
adapted form of religion: —
In the centre of the Sutsiki
mission slave-camp was an enor-
mous thatched idol-house of
bamboo. Here, on an altar, Christ
was worshipped in the anthropo-
morphic form of a gigantic
wooden image carved in the
semblance of a Campa brujo. The
idol’s shoulders were covered
with a sacred boa-constrictor
snakeskin cape, its loins girded
with a grass skirt. A parrot-
feather headdress stood erect on
(Continued on page 35)


/11l III!
m
■y,c
/
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\">iin/l/iIT/irm;':r.
7////////////////<n 11 n\\\
your
home
If you’re thinking of a Chenille Spread 9 our JELDI Spread
featured below is all you could ask for and more
*Wetdi 9 s best yet ...
**M*rincess" Wo. 255
This tailored Chenille Bedspread is the very latest by Jeldi.
The background is entirely new finely woven boucle which gives
20 times more wear. The base material is delicately dyed in Ice Blue,
Ice Green, Ice Pink, Ice Champagne or White, and the finely woven
chenille is beautifully coloured in a multitude of pastel shades.
Note the scalloped skirt has a heavy chenille fringe and scalloped edge,
Return sham covers your pillows. Owing to the great demand for this
spread, there is a delay of 10 to 12 weeks, so order now and forward
a deppsit to secure your order. Sises: 3ft., £lB/15/'; 3ft. 6in. and
4ft. 6in., £lB/18/'. Matching lined curtains are priced at £lB/10/' pr.
m
%
A
rm:
%
mm
, \
H
SS
@
aCF
-ss-
<3K
&>.
m
m
u
*&£*«
m
m
m#
m
'■'[■ :
m
m*
Frilly Crossover Curtains
These curtains are made from lovely imported voiles that pretty your windows but
do not obstruct your lighting. Available in colours of White, Cream, P/Pink, P/Blue,
P/Lemon, P/Green. Sizes: 3ft. 6in., 2 swag, 59/6 ea.; 3 swag, 79/6; 4ft. 6in., 2 swag,
70/-; 3 swag, 90/-; 6ft., 2 swag, 90/-; 3 swag, 126/-.
Ar R 0 :IN AOVf K TVSINt,
nthony Horderns'
gjp.
Store opens 8.30. You can now shop in the morning and keep your lunch hour free.
m
m
m.
mr.
m
m
: ■»:!
■ !
n
m
(!»S
: iiSS
: «= i«SS
:
iiisi
V
Bit
Ss§!
j 2a*
5!
s:
1
am
a x
ah
■ 8
■5
ss
■ ! i-
U 3
a
I?-:-
■: i !!
(;!{«:
i!;:a
.v»os
«
x
■■
»
X
• ■€
■ 8
slim;
■ fl
a:
i; U;
V. . ~o*. :
SB
x
I '
’
2!
Si Sii
Ir.s
ill:::
lil
M:
v
fell il:
!'-:i
XV
R
Chenille Toilet Sets
These 3'piece sets comprise: Toilet lid cover. Apron
around base of toilet. Bathmat. All to match in
candlewiwck chenille in black/white, black/cham'
pagne, blue/white, green/white, pink/white, pink/
black, burgundy/white. Also plain colours. 52/6.
Imported Velvet Cushion Covers
In multi-coloured designs on blue or red
backgrounds. Designs include puppies,
kittens, dancers, camels, bears, etc.
Sizes: 18in. x 18in. Priced at each 15/11.
Festoons for Your Glass Doors
Improve your glass door decorations by
having a festoon in cream or Beige satin,
beige taffeta or cream quality mercerised
cotton. Stock sizes: 2ft. 3in. x 6ft.
priced at 75/'. Special sizes quoted.
Store Curtains
in heavy Scotch lace. All cot'
ton, but lovely and soft, as the
yarn is mercerised. Size 7ft.
6in. drop is priced at 42A ea.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FURNISHING DEPARTMENT, GROUND FLOOR. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE 80951


The Bulletin
Wednesday, February 23, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3915
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;,
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
,Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite GJP.O.), Wellington.
DEEP IN THE MUD
ONE of the few opinions on “Labor’s” political
crisis ventured by Dr. Evatt with which all can
agree was in his remark last week that the “facts
speak for themselves, and most eloquently.” They
must have the same eloquence to him as the sound
of a bomb coming from directly under the hearer.
Indeed, Dr. Evatt’s comments had a detached air
as if they came from one in mid-air, though not
from one, as Mr. Paul Hasluck would say, who
was “changing his plumage in mid-flight.” Dr.
Evatt no longer has any plumage.
He now stands exposed as the man who
wrecked his party after moving with its enemies,
the Communists, to destroy a commission which is
engaged on a salutary inquiiy into espionage by the
Australian agents of a foreign Power.
There has never been anything like the present
position in Australian politics—never a party like
the present “Labor” party, for that matter, in any
British country.
It is a party born of ideals which were thrown
overboard in the First World War, when the main
issue became conscription. In 1921 it was captured
in the main eastern States, on the controlling
industrial side, by Communists, the direct agents of
the Comintern executive, of which the leader of
the Red faction in “Labor,” J. S. Garden, was a
member. It adopted the socialisation objective and
plans for cutting the painter from the British Com-
monwealth without more than a squeak of pain. Its
future Federal leaders, Messrs. Scullin and Curtin,
took part in this planning, which was to
lead to Socialism on Russian lines, with a
Supreme Economic Council chosen by the unions
in a classless dictatorship replacing Parliament. It
carried the new platform hatched by the trade-
unions with shouts of triumph to Moscow for con-
gratulations and to the next A.L.P. conference for
adoption. Thanks to E. G. Theodore, the publi-
cised “Labor” idealist who later died worth a half-
million as the result of his lifelong self-sacrifice in
the interest of the working-class, and more to Forgan
Smith —one of the few genuine practical idealists
who has sat in a caucus-room during the last
generation—the scheme was somewhat modified.
But socialisation and all that it implies still remains
the sole objective in “Labor’s” Federal platform.
For nearly twenty years, up till World War 11,
“Labor” was permeated to its vitals by Communist
cells, until, in 1940, according to J. A. Beasley
(another “Labor” martyr who did well for himself
financially during twenty years or so of political
life), it was completely captured in N. S. Wales, the
key State, by a group known as the Hughes-Evans
group, Mr. Hughes being a prominent Communist
—the same prominent Communist who could not
remember in the witness-box a week ago who the
landlord of the Communist-party branch of which
he is president could be, or what rent the branch
paid, it apparently keeping no books or records.
His is the same branch officials of which were
caught in a bush hideout during World War II
cooking-up a plot to sabotage war industry and
promote rebellion in the interest of Hitler, who
was then Stalin’s ally.
If Dr. Lloyd Ross, of the Australian Railways
Union, can be believed, it was while the “Labor”
party was under the control of' this Communist
group that Dr. Evatt and his brother were persuaded
to come back into politics.
Later in the war “Labor” was called on to
defend Australia. Its record was shabby, its rule
expensive to the limit, its post-war reconstruction
worked out in conjunction with the Communist
elements who controlled its finances and a majority
of the big unions, to use the return to peace as a
pretext to establish a dictatorship—again, of course,
on Soviet lines. A detached study in retrospect of
Dr. Evatt’s Fourteen Points Plan for Constitutional
reconstruction is apt, at this stage, to produce a
shudder for what might have been, since it is quite
obvious that his blueprint was not native to
Australia but adapted from the Soviet Union
Constitution.
After the war, having allowed the Communist
party to build itself up to be the paramount
influence in unionism, “Labor’s” association with
that body continued until industrial disruption and
a first substantive move to bring the socialisation
objective to practicality through nationalisation of
banking led to “Labor” being thrown out of power
and the claws of the Communists clipped. During
the previous five years the country had lost
millions of man-hours and pounds through the
“Labor” Government’s toleration of disruption and
the class-war, and untold loss of reputation through
the existence of blackmarkets and other evils, which
bred thickly as a consequence of its methods and
ethics. During a few years two “Labor” Prime
Ministers and leaders died exhausted, and the
“party” inherited Dr. Evatt in their place.
His rule has been marked by steady decline
in morale within the party, by the equally steady
throttling of every ideal that “Labor” once stood
for. “Labor” has of late rarely exhibited a spark
of fire or enthusiasm for any cause save the cause
of the Communist party, which was threatened with
demolition by the Communist-party Dissolution
Act and later with exposure by the Petrov commis-
sion. In each of these cases Dr. Evatt has
dropped everything to come to the rescue and
assume the leadership of the fight, with the
Communists as his eager allies and lieutenants.
The present disaster which has befallen the
party is principally due to his action in defence of
Communism, as the expulsion of “Labor” from
Federal office was due to the attempt of himself
and others to introduce totalitarian-type control of
finance. He has dragged the party through the
mud of disloyalty and sectarianism. In fact, it has
ceased to be a party at all. It is a bedraggled scrum
bogged down in Red mud. Every rule of “Labor”
conduct, as set down in the laws of the A.L.P., is
being disregarded, and scandals are exposed shame-
lessly in public without the slightest regard for
the dignity of “Labor” or the feelings of its disgusted
supporters.
The one comfort to be had from the spectacle
is that it is revealing to deluded voters the true
nature of their leadership in a way which should
assure that the present disgraceful Cahill-Sheahan
group in office in N. S. Wales and the unstable Cain
Cabinet in Victoria will be cast out at the next
elections, and that Dr. Evatt and whoever succeeds
him at Canberra will have a long wait for the Prime
Ministership.
Those are mercies for which the whole
country should be deeply grateful in the present
circumstances.
Our Education
WELL over a million youngsters resumed studies
after the Christmas vacation; over 50,000 times
attended school for the first time. State schools
are responsible for the instruction of 75 per cent,
of Australian children; the rest are catered for by
private and denominational schools.
In 1880 Henry Parkes passed his Public Instruc-
tion Act making attendance at school compulsory
between the ages of six and 14. At that time a
small fee was charged, but since 1906 primary
education has been free in New South Wales;
secondary education became free in 1911 (except
for a brief period in the 1920’5). Free education
came earlier in most of the other States—in
Victoria it dates from 1873; Queensland, 1875;
South Australia, 1891; Westralia, 1899; Tasmania,
1908., The statutory leaving-age in New South
Wales is now 15, and most other States have either
adopted that age or have expressed their intention
of so doing: in Tasmania the age is 16.
The cost of running the schools, as of everything
else, has increased tremendously since the war. In
1939 State education cost £ll million. By 1947
the bill was £2O million, and for the current year
the estimates are close to £6O million, which is
between a quarter and a third of all State
expenditure.
The aim of all education is the creation of an
enlightened community, and this was certainly the
object of those who in the 19th century fought for
the right of every child to be given the benefit of
regular schooling. In 1880 Australia, in comparison
with some parts of the Old World, was by no
means an illiterate country. It is difficult to com-
pare educational standards in different generations.
Ability to read and write is only a rough guide,
but on that basis illiteracy had been decreasing
rapidly in the two or three decades before 1880.
Statistics compiled of the number of persons signing
the marriage-register with a cross showed a figure
of nearly 25 per cent, in 1861, 14 per cent, in 1871
and 6 per cent, in 1881. Not till 1909 did the
proportion drop below 1 per cent. Since then it
has been almost negligible.
These figures are probably a better guide to
the effect of compulsory education on the young
people of the community than are the census figures
for illiteracy (discontinued since 1911), which
included not only the elderly unlettered who had
never had the chance to learn, but also infants
below school age. It may be interesting to
know that in 1891 there were in New South Wales
24 males and 34 females of the age of three who
could read but not write, and one person of 101
who could do neither, but the information is not a
very good guide to the general level of education.
If ability to read and write at the age of 14
is a test of literacy, then Australians of the present
day are an almost completely literate race. Whether
they are an educated race is much more debatable.
They can read and write, and they do read. The
mass-circulation of popular newspapers and
magazines proves that. But. no one would claim
that universal education has produced the
enlightened and informed community our grand-
fathers hoped it would. Illiteracy has almost
vanished, but ability to read is by no means
synonymous with a desire to read, far less with a
desire to read anything calculated to add to the
individual’s store of knowledge.
Scores of thousands of young Australians
consider that their education rightly finished the
day they left school. They use the priceless gift
of reading only for scanning headlines, keeping
abreast of racing-form, reading sporting news and
lottery prize-lists—and, of course, comics. The
phenomenon is by no means confined to those who
left school at the end of the primary course. There
are plenty of men who went through to Leaving
Certificate and matriculation, yet are no more
educated than if they had skipped school at sixth
grade.
Culture and the desire for knowledge can
scarcely be said to be encouraged by most Aus-
tralian daily-papers, some of which make no
attempt to disguise the fact that their target is the
12-year-old mind. Posters, headlines, layout and
writing are all carpentered to this concept. Words
must be simple, sentences short. Argument and
opinion must be obvious at a glance, otherwise the
reader will not understand it —the moron won’t be
able to, anyway, and the busy man won’t have the
time to spare for re-reading. It is not very gratifying
to be classed as a moron, but many people are
highly flattered by the idea that they are too busy
to read a solid article and must have it presented
in predigested form. Even professional men with
university degrees often accept these standards, and
many students are horrified at the thought of doing
any reading or study outside the set curriculum of
their course.
Universal education has certainly not produced
a race of well-educated, enlightened politicians.
Broadcasting of Parliamentary debates reveals that
many of the peoples’ representatives cannot speak
a sentence of more than a dozen words without
losing the thread of their argument and leaving
their principal clause floating in mid-air. We have
politicians who have been in Parliament for years
without apparently making the slightest attempt to
improve their command of their own language, let
alone increase their knowledge of national or world
affairs.
It is no use educationists complaining because
the country is flooded with comics and inferior
“literature.” Newsagents can tell them that the
chief purchasers of this trash are not school-
children, but adolescents who have already passed
through the education-mill. Much of it, indeed, is
aimed at them. Nor is it of much use to attack
evening newspapers for making front-page stories
of rape, murder, bashings, jockeys’ weddings, film-
stars’ divorces and other out-of-perspective events;
or for featuring in questionable taste the life-story
of a young woman acquitted of murder or a young
man convicted on a similar charge. The publishers
do not claim to be printing what they think the
public should read; they print what market-
research has told them the public wants —and
circulation figures confirm the correctness of their
conclusions.
Somewhere along the line our education-
system seems tq break down. Six-year-olds are,
almost without exception, eager to learn. What
becomes of that eagerness on the way through the
mill? The most frequent suggestions for the
improvement of our education-system are higher
salaries for teachers and a higher leaving-age. It
is hard to see how either of these could do anything
to combat the lack of a desire to learn.
It may be that what is complained of here is
not peculiar to Australia; that it is part of a world-
wide tendency towards a levelling-down. That
would still be no reason for complacency, but it is
doubtful whether it is the case. A few weeks ago
three American Davis Cup players were asked to
say a few words to Australian radio-audiences.
They were not professional orators or entertainers
—their job was to play tennis —but each man had
something interesting to say, said it intelligently
and infused something of his own personality into
it. Theirs was not an isolated case. The same
thing is noticed every time American golfers come
here, and even U.S. boxers, white or colored, can
talk coherently and intelligently in public.
Our sportsmen, for the most part, merely
mumble a few “Thank-yous” and shuffle away from
the microphone. Admittedly this is not the supreme
test of an education-system, but it is surely
symptomatic of weaknesses which should be
remediable.


GETTING READY FOR THE A.L.P. CONFERENCE


PLAIN ENGLISH
Moscow Addendum
The fuller reports of Malenkov’s retire-
ment which have come from Moscow
confirm the view expressed in The
Bulletin at the time.
Malenkov in his own statement demon-
strated throughout that what had been
done was the work of the Central Com-
mittee of the Communist party* which
had turned him into its scapegoat for the
failure of the plans in agriculture put
forward at the Nineteenth Congress of
the party. He made it quite clear that
the Central Committee, and not the so-
called Government or Council of Minis-
ters, held command of Russia. He
declared that he particularly saw his
own “guilt and responsibility” in relation
to agricultural failure, adding:
On the initiative and under the guid-
ance of the party Central Committee, a
general programme has been worked, out
to overcome the lagging-behind in agricul-
ture and for its rapid development. The
programme is based on the only correct
foundation, the further development by
every means of heavy industry. Only its
implementation will create the neces-
sary conditions for a real upsurge m the
production of all essential commodities
for popular consumption.
The fact that the leaders of the Council
of Ministers which the Central Committee
of the party, under Krushchev, has
created to carry out this heavy-industry
programme, are all military commanders
and organisers seems somewhat strange
and likely to point to the fact that the
so-called agricultural proposals are a
blind to accelerate armament. Krush-
chev’s supremacy was advertised by his
late supposed chief in the latter’s con-
cluding sentence:
Expressing this request for my release
from the post of chairman of the U.S.S.R.
Council of Ministers, I wish to assure the
Supreme Soviet that, in a new post, I will,
under the guidance of the Central Com-
mittee of the party—monolithic in its
unity and solidarity——and the Soviet Gov-
ernment, perform in the most conscien-
tious manner the duties and functions en-
trusted to me.
It was Krushchev, not Bulganin, who
received the ovation of the day when he
came into the chamber with others to
propose Bulganin’s election to succeed
Malenkov.
Immediately after the change Molotov
delivered an important but scarcely
noticed exposition of the Kremlin’s
foreign-affairs policy—the first general
review he has made since 1946.
The features of it were (a) that the
“aggressive character of the United
States is evident” ; ( b ) that India is “an
important new sister in the strengthening
of peace”; (c) that the Afro-Asian con-
ference to be held in Djakarta in April
would be “an important landmark in
history” ; (d) that the world is definitely
divided into “the camp of capitalism and
imperialism” opposed by the camp of
“Socialism and democracy,” with leader-
ship vested in the Soviet Union and Com-
munist China. There was nothing about
the capitalist and Socialist worlds living
at peace side by side;
Regarding Formosa, he said that it was
difficult to cite a “more disgraceful act
in the history of imperialist aggression”
than this occupation of “undoubtedly
Chinese territory.” The United States
President and Congress had “recently
become so enamored of their strength
and position that they were threatening
China with war.” He declared that the
Soviet position in the matter was clear:
Formosa was the domestic concern of
China, and the United States actions were
stark aggression which must be con-
demned unconditionally by the United
Nations Organisation. He continued:
It is impossible to tolerate the fact
that up to the present the legitimate
rights of China in the United Nations
have not been restored. The United States
must withdraw their military forces from
that region. Then in the Far East hos-
tilities will cease and peace be restored.
The most important part of his speech,
however, was his definite declaration that
the United States was “deliberately aim-
ing at preparation for a new war, for
an atomic war,” and his call to the
peoples of capitalist and colonial coun-
tries to “take the cause of peace into their
own hands” and adopt the view of
Moscow that the rebirth of German
armament was a crude violation of Pots-
dam, that it was a “dirty slander” to say
that Russian might threatened Western
Europe. This was followed by deliberate
sentences of menace which proclaimed
that the ratification of the Paris agree-
ment for Western defence would greatly
increase tension, “and that the capitalist
Powers would do well not to forget the
power of the Soviet Union” ; that the
Communist countries “would not sit with
folded hands”; that the eight Com-
munist States would “create a united
command of military forces” and that
when “the aggressors see this they will no
doubt behave more quietly.”
To this was added numerous little veiled
threats to individual countries, within
the zone of influence of the Communist
bloc, especially Norway, Turkey and
Yugoslavia.
-<►
An Editor Retires
After 11 years Roger Bluett has retired
as general editor of “The Shire and
Municipal Record,” a N.S.W. monthly
Which, while devoted to local-govern-
ment matters, is one of the most readable
publications of its kind, and should be
read by more people—especially rate-
payers.
Bluett’s three main editorial attributes
seem to have been a first-class knowledge
of local-government, a sense of humor,
and an undying hatred of partyism in
1.-g. affairs. His farewell blast on this
subject should be framed and hung in
every council-room:
There is no other menace which could
bring local-government to the ground and
strip it of all honor and dignity more
effectively than [for it] to fall a prey
to politics.
Those who enter local-government under
a political banner owe their first loyalty
to the party and consider local-government
an instrument for that purpose. Local-
government wants only men who are for
local-government first, last, and aU the
time.
It is not sufficient for us to he on guard
against this menace, but we should take
the offensive, and the first shot may well
be an agitation for the abolition of the
grouping of candidates on the ballot-paper
and a return to first-past-the-post voting.
Mr. Bluett let go another on
amalgamations:
Amalgamations also must be watched
closely and critically if the lights of local-
government are not to go out one by one
throughout the State. Already there is
some very dim illumination in former
local-government areas which are now
local-government in name only.
From its defeat on the amalgamation
issue some years ago in the County of
Cumberland the [N.S.W.] Government
learnt a lesson. Henceforth it decided to
pick off the victims marked for amalga-
mation as a hunter picks off his game.
And so they have been brought to the
ground one by one.
The proposed amalgamation of five
adjoining councils with the Sydney City
Council is a blatant political move that
must be opposed strenuously. No more
has been heard of this proposal since the
brief statement which appeared in the
press last year, but no doubt more will
come to light when the legislative pro-
gramme is announced, or leaks out, later
in the year.
This sort of thing, we know, bounces
off the hides of “Labor” Governments
like a car bouncing off a Sydney tram-
line. All the same it is truth, and since
truth usually finds its Bluetts it’s to be
hoped that this one, though retired, will
not be silent.
Waterfront Dictatorship
The situation on the Sydney wharves
seems to be, after last week’s conference,
that the Communists in the union are
in command of the situation, and the
compromise arrived at under Mr. Holt’s
presidency smells strongly of temporary
surrender.
The attitude of Moscow’s agent, Com-
rade Jim Healy, has been throughout the
crisis that he has outlawed a law of the
Commonwealth Parliament and refuses
to allow the union to obey it. He has
insisted that the age-old right of employers
to choose their own workers shall con-
tinue to be suspended to suit the Com-
munist party’s pleasure and that a
shortage of workers shall be maintained
in order to permit the shipping industry
and the community at large to be bled
through loafing and unjustifiably high
wages.
In Sydney, while Mr. Healy and his
myrmidons demonstrated their power
to enforce this edict, Sydney Harbor has
been crowded with unloaded ships, the
wharf-force has been badly short
of immediate needs, and the Common-
wealth Government has vied with the
shipowners in an attempt to compromise.
It is to some degree responsible for the
position through having acted in intro-
ducing legislation before the situation had
been fully surveyed by the inquiry now
in progress, but that is no excuse for a
flat defiance of the law by the union or
by a tolerance of it by the Government.
The excuse that the harassed shipowners,
who have learnt from sad experience that
they can expect only limited support from
Mr. Holt if the A.C.T.U. will not back
him, were ready to do anything to get
their ships unloaded is no excuse, either.
What has now happened is that the
shipowners have been forced by expedi-
ency, with the consent of the Minister,
to waive their rights under a Common-
wealth Act.
If the law is not applied in all cases of
industrial breach it may as well not be
there and the government of the country
handed over to the A.C.T.U. and its
Communist ingredients.
It seems, according to the Sydney
“Herald,” that the problem was not com-
pelling the rebel union to obey Parlia-
ment, but “breaking the deadlock,” and
that it was “feared that any attempt to
enforce the right to nominate new wharf-
labor would be resisted by the union and
would lead to a nationwide waterside
strike.” The union has agreed to provide
500 men under conditions mostly its
own and with an unaccustomed gracious-
ness which emphasised its triumph. It
will even go the unaccustomed length
of arranging things so that “as far as
practicable consideration by branch mem-
bership of quota-increases and the admis-
sion of new members will be dealt with
by means which do not involve
interruptions to stevedoring operations.”
v Pending Prophecy
They are cruel, and have no mercy ;
Their voice roareth like the sea;
And they ride upon motors. ...
—Jeremiah (slightly amended).
Writing about 600 b.c., the prophet went
on to state that in the consequent head-
on collision at the end of Oaks-avenue,
Neutral Bay, Sydney, one man and
one woman were killed and several other
persons critically injured.
The prophecy has not yet come off,
but there’s a fine felt hat as good as
new (bought only 10 years ago) to back
the prophet.
Oaks-avenue is a street a couple of
hundred yards long and about the shape
of a hungry goanna climbing a fence-
post. At each end of it there are signs
big enough to be read by a blindfolded
pilot passing in a jet. The signs say it
is one-way traffic. At a most conservative
estimate, an average of a dozen cars a
week go along it the wrong way: 50 a
month; 600 a year.
The prophet can’t lose; and there is
more in his favor than numbers. Cars
entering the street lawfully, at the top
end, do so on a blind right-angle turn.
Naturally—believing the signs at that
end mean what they say—-many of the
drivers make that turn at a fair bat.
Cars travelling the opposite—wrong —
way obey one traffic law by sticking to
the left of the road, probably from force
of habit. This makes them better hidden
still to anyone taking the right-angle
blind turn.
Apart from unfairness to the prophet,
the police cannot be expected to station
a permanent Watcher in such a byway.
He would make 600 baggings a year,
burt on the rate of fines imposed that
would hardly pay his wages for a month.
In the circumstances, however, the police
would seem called on to produce a very
strong reason for turning down —if once
again they do—the Local Government
Association suggestion that councils
should be given power to help enforce
traffic regulations. Local-government
bodies are prepared to book and prosecute
offenders.
As for the 600 a year that could be
booked in Oaks-avenue alone, punish-
ment to fit their case could scarcely
be less than instant loss of licence, and
no excuses admitted. As Blind Freddie
could read the One Way Traffic signs at
100yds. range, they must be blinder still
to miss them, or else can’t read, or just
don’t care, or are criminally wilful: on
any of these grounds they should not
have a licence.
Inside External Affairs
Now, and in the future, Australia’s
foreign policy must depend largely on
the work of External Affairs Depart-
ment officials at home and overseas, and
on the conclusions which they derive
from their information and study. Final
responsibility is taken by Government,
but most Ministers, even those best
informed at first-hand on world happen-
ings and trends, must rely greatly on
tasks performed in this rather curious
department, recently in somewhat dis-
turbing limelight.
External Affairs has been a plant of
fairly rapid growth, a fact which imposes
a limit on the number of its trained men.
It contains a large percentage of “career
diplomats” whose experience and train-
ing does not yet justify their promotion
to the most senior posts abroad, and it
has some who have been too long over-
seas and are possibly out of touch with
Australian opinion.
In addition to “administration” there
are sections dealing with legal matters
and treaties, the United Nations,
economic relations, technical assistance,
political intelligence, consular and proto-
col matters, travel, equipment and
finance. There is a Pacific section which
has, rightly, been enlarged considerably
in recent years. There must necessarily
be some degree of secrecy in certain
activities of the department and in some
functions of its officers, but perhaps a
little fresh-air and sunshine through
adequate Parliamentary inquiry would
be good for all concerned.
The method of recruitment and train-
ing of staff, the precautions taken to
ensure that only loyal Australians are
engaged and retained, the scope Of the
work in Australia and < overseas, the
relative importance of embassies and
legations, the amount and value of infor-
mation collected, and the use made of
such information are all matters which
could and should be probed. It might
be found that the department is not
doing enough in some directions, and
more than is necessary in others.
After all, the whole field of foreign
activities channels down into recommen-
dations to Cabinet, and into action to
implement Cabinet decisions on foreign
affairs. The task can be oversimplified,
but there is the opposite danger of its
becoming so complicated that its useful-
ness and efficiency are hampered. Prime
requisite is men of unquestioned loyalty,
adequate training and sufficient talent
and flair to ensure that their work is of
continuing value to the security of Aus-
tralia, to the effectiveness of its voice
overseas, and to the maintenance of
satisfactorily informed opinion in Parlia-
ment and elsewhere in the country.
Capital Punishment
From Westminster: The death-penalty
in Great Britain is to stay.
It would seem, from the recent debate
in Parliament, that while judicial killing
is distasteful and abhorrent to a civilised
community it must be retained, because
of its influence upon the habitual
criminal. Murder will out, hanging or
no hanging, but with crimes of violence
and, to a lesser degree with sex crimes,
it is clear that informed opinion believes
that the rope is the one powerful
deterrent.
For logical reasons, the Government
exploded the fallacy of an amendment
which proposed the suspension of the
death-penalty for a trial of five years.
It was too short a period for a reliable
judgment to be formed and, more import-
ant, the onus of reintroducing it would
shift away from those who proposed it.
In effect, the carrying of the amendment
would mean permanent suspension under
the guise of an experiment.
Certainly the House has rarbly been
so hushed or touched with conscience.
The Complexity and delicacy of the issue
was brought out by the personal explan-
ations of two Home Secretaries on why
they had changed their views. The pre-
sent one, Mr. Lloyd George, had voted
for the motion in 1948, but, due to his
Home Office experience, now believed
that no alternative to capital punishment
could be found, satisfactory both as a
deterrent and to the public conscience.
Mr. Chuter Ede, who had voted against
the motion in 1948, introduced a note
of drama when he recalled the Evans
case. He wrote across the papers: The
law must take its course.” Evans was
hanged. Subsequent events (the notorious
Christie murders) had shown that Evans,
who lived at Christie’s house, might have
been wrongly sentenced and had proved
that a mistake was possible.
There is no question, in most minds,
that the Government has been influenced
by caution and prudence and that to
sweep away the death-penalty would be
a dangerous step. But penal-reformers
and a very responsible section of lay
opinion do not share the official view
that everything should stay as it is
because suggested modifications are
declared to be “unworkable.”
The most controversial of these are the
M’Naughten Rules on insanity which
were laid down in 1843 and which accept
mental disease but not defects of the
indivisible mind. That is to say, they
take into account pathology but not
psychology. By ignoring this reform
(and the recommendations on it from
the Gowers Report on Capital Punish-
ment) the Government has laid itselt
open to the criticism of being over-
cautious and behind the times.
New-State Progress
Last week’s proceedings of the New-
State movement in northern New South
Wales must have come as a cold douche
to the N. S. Wales Government and as
an encouragement to every district
which is thinking in terms of regional
self-government.
The New England Constituent
Assembly, which was created by the vote
of the Inverell Conference at the end
of last year, met to inaugurate its regular
(i Continued on next page}


proceedings and begin its organisation
for separation.
The preparations divided themselves
into two sections. The first placed the
Assembly on a Parliamentary basis with
a speaker (Mr. P. N. Harrison, a well-
known Armidale solicitor), standing-
orders and a regular programme of
action which involves the taking of a
referendum of the whole of the electors
of the New England district, which
stretches southwards almost as far as
Gosford, and the election of a Repre-
sentative Assembly on an electoral basis.
The second move was the passage of
the first “bill” submitted to the meeting
by Mr. U. R. Ellis to put the proposals
of the movement in a concrete form in
which it could be directly submitted to
the N. S. Wales Parliament after being
approved by the vote at the referendum.
This which passed all readings,
authorises the people of New England
to adopt a Constitution through a con-
vention chosen on the votes of all quali-
fied electors within New England as
defined by the 1934-35 royal commis-
sion. Upon adoption by the people the
Constitution would be submitted to the
Commonwealth Parliament with an appli-
cation for the admission of the new State
to the Commonwealth. A legislature
would then be created and provision
would be made for the separate repre-
sentation of New England in the Senate.
With the State election due next year,
the. opportunity to take the preliminary
referendum and to elect the representa-
tive assembly seems to offer itself if the
money can be found for polling expenses,
and this seems to be the test of success
or failure at the present juncture. If a
referendum can be held it will certainly
have an important effect on the direction
of thought at the Federal convention on
Constitutional reform which is under
consideration, and would undoubtedly
have its repercussions in other parts of
Australia.
The North Queensland movement is
again active, and sent to Armidale
planners a telegram of congratulation.
POLITICAL POINTS
When this was printed Cosgrove had
won the Tasmanian election for his par-
ticular Labor party. In the 30-seat elec-
tion the voters made it 15 Labor and
15 non-Labor, and, under a Tasmanian
system of such ties being decided on
who gets the most primaries, Cosgrove
got home.
• •
The Broadcasting Control Board’s
inquiry into television is getting more
space than the Petrov inquiry. It is to
be hoped it doesn’t outdistance it.
• •
Carter Bros, are road-freighting eggs
about 600 miles from their Werribee
(Vic.) farm to Sydney markets and
selling them lOd. a dozen cheaper than
the N.S.W. Egg Board fixed price. Evi-
dently the cost of transport all that way
is less per thousand-dozen eggs than
Carter Bros, would have to pay in Vic-
torian Egg Board levy if they sold their
eggs locally. All that seems necessary
now is for some N.S.W. egg-farmers
to band together and ship cargoes of
eggs to Melbourne by road. That would
expose the board-farce on both sides of
the Murray for what it is.
• •
Francis Michael Forde got the Labor
nomination for the Queensland Flinders
by-election on March 12. Flinders is
one of those “Labor”-created pocket-
boroughs designed to keep the Gairs in
power. Forde must wish the by-election
had been sooner. The big split down
south is just beginning to open up in
Queensland.
• •
In Brisbane a row broke out when
E. A. Task, a former American now
naturalised, nominated as a non-“ Labor”
candidate for Brisbane City Council and
had his nomination rejected because he
was not on the State electoral roll on
December 31. Task says he applied
simultaneously for enrolment on both
Federal and State rolls, was put on the
Federal on December 15, but not on
the State until January 4—first working-
day of 1955.
• •
A visiting road-specialist says too much
“pick-and-shovel” mentality governs
Australian road-construction and -main-
tenance. That’s another name for the
“day-work” mentality of State Govern-
ments.
0 0
The Swiss, who’ve kept war outside
their frontiers for a couple of hundred
years, suddenly found a little one going
on right in their capital, Berne, where
half-a-dozen anti-Communist Rumanians
shot their way into the Rumanian Lega-
tion and announced they’d hold it till
Communist Rumania released some
political prisoners. After 36 hours, how-
ever, they gave in. The Swiss have
refused the Rumanian demand for their
extradition.
0 0
Monsieur Pflimlin’s chances were
Pflimsy.
0 0
United Kingdom defence vote this year
will .be £1,537,200,000, a decline of
£102,700,000 for the year, against an
increase in Russia’s defence Budget of
12 p.c. Defence forces will decrease
about 35,000 to 788,000 by April, 1956,
provided an attack by Russia does not
add a nought to the end of the figure.
Russian forces, including reserves who
have just completed two years of hard
conscriptive training, are about 6,000,000-
odd, and Molotov has announced that
“to the Soviet Union belongs an honor-
able position in the struggle for peace
against the warmongers... .a reliable
bastion for the consolidation of peace
between peoples.”
0 0
“Equal pay for equal work” has been
adopted as policy by the Commonwealth
Public Service Clerical Association. But
do all men clerks in the public service
work as hard as women clerks?
A bill is before the British Parliament
to reconstruct two of the largest under-
ground stations in London and build 11
miles of new underground from Victoria
Station to Walthamstow. The line will
run under the whole of London from
west to east and will cost £50,000,000.
It will be completed in “four to five
years.” The N. S. Wales Government
has been engaged in building a mile or
two of the Eastern Suburbs railway for
38 years, and is not at the end of the job
yet.
0 0
“Stromlo”: Dimtroon Military College
has a little private war with the Depart-
ment of the Interior. For years it has
sought title to the land it occupies, an
area for manoeuvres safe from encroach-
ment by , the spreading Canberra, and
the closure of a public road (to the air-
port) which passes through the college.
All this has prompted sundry Canberra
citizens to declare that the college
should not restrict the city’s growth. A
former public servant and member of
the A.C.T. town-planning committee
said bluntly that if the college interfered
with the development, then the college
should go. All this sabre-rattling along
the Molonglo makes it possible for
present-day cadets to get some experience
of siege-warfare earlier than they
expected.
e 0
“In the ACT”: An aluminium tele-
phone-exchange was put up quietly a
FLYING CUP-AND-SAUCER
year or two ago in parkland facing the
Hotel Kurrajong, Canberra. The Senate
Committee studying Canberra develop-
ment is now trying to ascertain who
authorised erection of the eyesore, and
why it was placed there. A works
official said it was done on instructions
from Interior, which had arranged for
the site in conjunction with the P.M.G.’s
Department. The official didn’t know
who had suggested the site, and added
that past experience had made Works
chary to objecting to Interior’s ideas.
Senator McCallum said they had been
trying for a long time to pin down the
responsibility. “We haven’t succeeded
yet—but we will get around to it later.”
And then what?
0 0
Master bakers in Sydney asked the
Bakers’ Union to start work an hour
earlier Mondays to Thursdays and two-
hours earlier on Fridays and knock off
correspondingly earlier, to give people
better bread, offering to pay overtime
for it. The union refused. If it had
accepted the public would have been up
for another Id. a loaf —for that’s how
the master bakers proposed to “meet
the cost.”
0 0
Every now and then an alert press
digs up another example of freedom
in this democracy. This time its at
Gosford, where the local council was
asked by the Municipal and bhire
Employees’ Union to force its clerical
staff to buy twelve-and-sixpenny union-
picnic tickets and, if they didn’t, to make
them work on the union-picnic holiday.
The council wouldn’t be in it, but it s the
attempt that is the revelation.
0 0
The new Constitution of Singapore
came into force on February 9, and
writs for 25 divisions for the first elec-
tions have been signed. The election
will take place on April 2, nominations
closing on February 28. To the elected
25 there will be added four nominated
and three ex-officio members Attorney-
General, Chief Secretary and Financial
Secretary. It says something for the
success of pacification measures that the
election can be held with no restrictions
save those in the interest of good order,
and that even the Communists are
allowed to raise their voices to call the
Constitution a “deceptive measure of
British imperialism.” The Kremlin must
sometimes want to have British colonial
administrations certified for their insane
softness towards rebels.
0 0
Major - General Kingsley Norris,
director-general of the Army Medical
Services, says the Army can’t get M.O.s,
and if more young doctors don’t enlist
there might not be any Army medical
service-—“ Doctors are doing so well out-
side the Army that we cannot attract
them.” True indeed, and the family man
overtaken by illness among his depend-
ants usually has thumping bills to meet,
not always adequately covered by medical
funds. Still, it’s the money-mad age, and
medicine is no dearer than anything else.
0 0
The Australian summer month of
February has caused proportionately
as much loss in lives and property as did
its winter counterpart in the U.K. and
Europe. There it was floods, shipwrecks,
gales and landslides. Here it was floods
and gales—with enormous mould-damage
to dried and fresh fruits along the Murray
Valley.
• •
“Fuzzy-Wuzzy”: Threats to destroy
any Jap war memorials erected in New
Guinea are no good. The inscription
originally proposed was modified, and it
now merely records the fact that Jap
war dead were removed from the site.
Apart from forgiveness for men so long
dead, surely such a memorial might re-
mind potential invaders that Australia
will fight for New Guinea.
0 0
“In the ACT”: Whatever may be
thought of Wentworth (M.H.R.), there
is general appreciation of the fact that
he has gone abroad under his own steam
(a rare political achievement) to make
various inquiries for the public good—on
radiation, civil defence, security, use of
military and civil aircraft and helicopters,
and decentralisation for economic and
defence reasons.
• •
“X.S.”: Melbourne is building an
Olympic village at Heidelberg to accom-
modate the visiting athletes when they
come in 1956. Some of the houses have
been finished, and it has been suggested
that some of the inmates of the
“temporary slum” at Camp Pell should
be allowed to move in. Perhaps they
should ; but who is to get them out when
the sportsmen arrive and where are they
to go? Presumably back to Camp Pell.
• •
All the way from King’s Cross to
Watson’s Bay and Maroubra (Sydney’s
eastern suburban area) housewives wore
sardonic grins last week when they read:
“Two Butchers Robbed in E. Suburbs.”
• •
Wingham Rural Co-operative Society
was charged with, that being a receiving-
depot for N.S.W. Milk Board, it stole
67571 b. of butter-fat from the milk before
transmitting it to the Milk Board, made
it into butter and sold it. After nearly
four days of legal argument, Judge
McKillop held that statements by the
chairman of directors and general-mana-
ger to the police were not admissible in
evidence and directed the jury to acquit.
• ®
“S. M. Herald” has become a little
upset after reporting the case of a
plumber fined under the tyrannical
N.S.W. Road Transport Act for carry-
ing his own gear in his own truck to his
own job. A Bowral man saw his cow
in the local pound and took it out.
“S.M.H.” put up a bold headline:
“Bowral Man Fined for Taking Own
Cow.” But it’s not the same thing at all.
o 0
N.S.W. women’s organisations, dis-
covering that whereas Egg Board salaries
took £22,041 for the year, holiday- and
sick-pay cost £40,845, want a public
inquiry into the board’s activities. One
lady remarked feelingly, “Some of them
must have been pretty sick.” Well, a
lot of the board’s eggs are distinctly
anaemic.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
A LARGE crowd assembled at Mascot
_ aerodrome, Sydney, to welcome
visiting carpetlayer George Trumbold,
who arrived fresh from a triumphant
season at New York’s Madison Square
Garden.
Yelling bobby-soxers and fainting
women kept police and officials busy,
but the situation was never allowed to
get out of hand. Trumbold, smart in a
four-piece pipeclay suit and a tie to
match, appeared the least perturbed by
his hysterical welcome, and even stopped
to chat here and there with dewy-eyed
teenage fans.
Some of them were gaily bedecked
in carpet-material made into attractive
designs, and one young enthusiast had on
a heavy Axminster covered with pictures
of Trumbold, with the legend “Rock Me
Trumbold” printed in large letters on hex-
back.
At a subsequent press-interview, Trum-
bold said he hoped to lay four carpets
in Sydney, three in Melbourne and two
in Adelaide. If time permitted, he might
possibly give Coolangatta a burl.
Asked to what he attributed his success
he drawled, “Well, I guess it has some-
“ Satisfied ?”
thing to do with the way I hold the tacks
in my mouth.”
J. G.W.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cureus”: Regarding Bulletin history
published in the seventy-fifth anniversary
number. At one time a certain religious
passage-at-arms was raging between Rev.
Dill Macky and Cardinal Moran: am I
remembering correctly a saying attri-
buted to the former? :
Crimson jackal, foul with sin,
The Bulletin! The Bulletin!
“Bioko’s Niece”: Nearly 50 years ago,
as a small girl of about eight or nine, I
used to visit two bachelor uncles, on the
wall of whose bedroom were many
cuttings from The Bulletin, among
them Norman Lindsay’s drawing “A
Trio: The woman I was, the woman I
am, and the woman I’ll someday be.”
It made a profound impression on my
young mind, and through the years it
had a more deterring influence on many
of my actions than all the sermons in
Christendom.
❖ *l*
“C.Q.”: One item of some importance
has been overlooked in the scheme of
things for Australia’s first hotel-school,
opened by Victorian Premier Cain and
financed to the extent of £2S,(XX) by
Federal Hotels, Ltd. The course, to take
three years, will include the preparation
of food, cooking, learning about wines,
porterage and bar-service, administration,
bookkeeping and tourism; and it is hoped
that there will be graduates ready for
the Olympic Games influx. But how to
take a tip isn’t mentioned. It is done i -
Europe with a grace that few
can equal, and an insistence that • not
even Australians can ignore.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Sidav”: Have I a claim to fame? It
was early in the ’twenties when “my life
was threatened” by the gentle Henry
Lawson. When W. A. Holman was
Premier of N. S. Wales, Henry was pro-
vided with a small holding at Leeton, and
while visiting there I succeeded in taking
a snapshot of the poet as he approached
me one morning along one of the
avenues. When he was within range
I stood in front and pressed the lever.
Feigning extreme annoyance, Henry
marched upon me, brandishing his stick,
shouting “111 kill you fatally dead,” and,
softly chuckling, hobbled off.
❖ ❖ *
“Siosal”: Of the various bright
suggestions for awarding prizes to losers
of competitions, as contained in an
article in “Plain English” (B. 9/2/’55),
I like in particular the idea of unofficial
Rhodes Scholarships, with the “winners”
getting a year’s membership of the
Sydney (free) Municipal Library. This
recalls that the enterprising little “Mail”
of Avoca (Vic.) recently came to light
with handsome offers for the tallest
snake-stories. First-prize was to be a
year’s membership of the local Olympic
swimming-pool (which doesn’t exist), and
second a year’s tickets to each Donald
Duck screening at the hamlet’s new town
hall (another pious aspiration). As for
third-prize, here the paper itself came
to the party, announcing that it would
appoint the winner one of its news-
gatherers, in an honorary capacity, for
three years. Clearly, the handing-out of
unofficial awards, as launched by a
Sydney art-group by way of counter-
blast to the Archibald and Wynne
selections, started something with all sorts
of possibilities.
“Just trying her out for the hill-climb.”
“Bo”: Hollywood had the U.S. Army
rushing around in circles in frenzied
attempts tostop the latest invasion from
Mars, carried out by one flying-saucer
which had burrowed underground. From
this h.q. two high U.S. brasshats who
had become mysteriously radio-controlled
by the Martians set out to sabotage
a power-station, one of ’em staggering
under the weight of an explosive-filled
suitcase. Challenged by two guards inside
the power-house, they bolted, so one
guard growled, “Let ’em have it!” The
other promptly fired—very brainily—at
the suitcase. There came a bang like
a hunger going off, and a puff of flame
that didn’t mar the paintwork of a car
2ft. from the explosion. The guards
didn’t even duck their heads, though they
were only about 20 yards from the blast.
Drawled one: “Holy mackerel! That
case musta bin full o’ nitro-glycerine! ”
❖ ♦+♦ ♦>
“M.A.W.”: “Mullum” (B. 26/1/’55)
asks who is “legally responsible” for
exchange on cheques. The answer is:
Nobody. Exchange is a bank-charge for
“collecting” the cheque. If you won’t
pay, the service will be refused. A person
or firm should not expect to be able to
pay a debt—that is, get a receipt for a
full discharge—with a document worth
less than the amount owing when turned
into cash where the debt is payable. It
should be remembered that a cheque is
not “legal tender”—for its face-value or
any value. It is accepted as a matter
of courtesy—one of the convenient
customs of business. But you can refuse
it and insist on cash.
“Tangreen”: The drawer of the cheque
may be technically responsible for the
payment of exchange, but there are other
factors which “Muskeen” (B. 9/2/’55)
overlooks or does not appreciate. As
one of the narks who jib at the addition
of exchange to cheques to city firms I
am not actuated by “principle” or the
lack of it, but by a belief that it is
economically sound for country people
to foster their small towns by confining
as much of their business as possible
to local traders. If the city firms wish
to wean this business from the country
towns, small concessions, such as free-
dom from exchange, freight and postal-
charges, and discounts for prompt pay-
ment, should be their first consideration.
It is little things such as these which
irritate the countryman. Recently my
day's mail contained two letters from a
city motor-firm, one chiding me for not
adding exchange to my cheque for a
repair-account, and the other enclosing
their cheque for a no-longer-required
deposit on a new car. The amount I
received was far larger than the amount
paid, but no exchange was added. This
seems to be standard practice. Surely
even “Muskeen” would agree that the
system should work both ways.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Eve”: Bagsnatchers’ delight! Woman
sat opposite me in the crowded tram and
put her open-type shopping-basket at
her feet. From her small purse she then
took out a bundle of notes and counted
them for all to witness: a fiver, four
singles and a half-note. Taking out a
zac for her fare, she then stuffed the
ticket and all the notes into the small
purse—and tossed it nonchalantly into the
basket on the floor, thereafter losing
herself in a magazine until she left the
tram two sections further on.
* ❖ <S>
done it! Hooray! Now we
relax and bask in the glory of
achievement, for the daily press assures
us that this is not only a record but an
all-time record. With vivid front-page
day-to-day descriptions, our record shared
space with the Far East menace, the
Labor faction-fight, the cricket Test and
the tennis championships.
The momentous issue, the tenseness of
the struggle, and the hazards which so
nearly brought us down —there was that
awful night of reports of a light drizzle
in the distant hills, but in the terrific
strain of those last few laps we did not
falter.
Three days to go! ... Two! . . .
One!
Then the loud acclaim: Hallelujah!
The record is broken —35 days without
a point of rain!
We breathe again, and for good
measure coast along to 40 days and 40
nights. Then with cannonade of thunder
the heavens proclaim the triumph; down
comes the rain, and, wearing our laurel-
wreath, we join the cavalcade. What
company of record-makers is ours: Car-
bine, Phar Lap, Comic Court; hoops from
Tommy Corrigan to Jack Purtell; Brookes
and Wilding, Sedgman and McGregor;
Blue Streak Donaldson, John Landy and
Marj Jackson; Beaurepaire and Barney
Keiran; Mervyn Wood and Bobby
Pearce; Bradman and Trumper; Les
Darcy; Plugger Bill Martin; Lindrum
with the cue, and Donald Mclntosh at
the traps.
And the pole-sitters, pie-eaters, starvers
and beer-swillers; the non-stop dancers
and piano-players; the big bullock from
Ballycrankie and the ringer at Knockem
Downs ; the Russell-street exchange and
Swan-street bridge; wool-men’s cheques
and the Christmas spending-orgy. Records
and more records!
Our, recent blue-ribbon for Melbourne’s
wettest month was but a try-out. This is
it, the biggest dry, never dreamt of in the
bravest forecasts of Wragge or Inigo
Jones. What matter that we lose the
Ashes and the Davis Cup? We go down
through the ages with Noah —Forty days
and forty nights! Good old Melbourne!
Emjai (Vic.).
NOTHING LICENTIOUS
“The Broadcasting Control Board is hearing
applications for television-licences.”
I want a TV-station:
My one desire will be
To benefit the nation —
With this my friends agree :
We’ve formed into a company,
A vast and motley crew:
The church and stage and the printed page
And the powerful F.A.Q.
The ads. throughout our hook-up
Will have hymn-tunes for themes,
And any news we cook-up
Will be poetic dreams;
Our female telecasters
Will all be aged wrecks,
Barely alive at ninety-five
And covered from knees to necks.
No pops, no crooners mouthing —
On this, please have no qualms —
Our dance-band will play nothing
But symphonies and psalms;
There won’t be any politics,
Let that be understood,
Unless we’re assured that every word
Will do our side some good.
We’re not in this for profit :
For years, it may be said,
Though we think nothing of it,
We’ll be well in the red ;
And even, when we’re round the bend
We don’t expect to clear
Very much more than three or four
Million pounds a year.
Why, yes; I’ll answer questions . . .
Yes,, yes; I’ve been in jail . . .
I don’t like your suggestions! . . .
Well, yes; I’m out on bail;
But whoever gets the licence
Should go to jail to die
If it s given away to whoever can say
More beautiful things than I.
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


AT Pt. Noarlunga (S.A.), Emoh-Ruo,
Dunroamin, Imaner, and all the other
house-names of that type are outdone.
“Believe me, there's more money in ties."
A small home there has, painted on its
roof in letters 4ft. high, the name DUZ-
US. And on the latest Australia Day
holiday a woman visitor to the seaside
resort was heard to remark that New
Australians should not be allowed to
paint foreign words on their roofs, “Who
knows,” she said. “It might even be a
message for the Russians! ”—“Tandanya.”
* *> ***
Nakhoda”: The Cocos Islands,
shortly to become Australian territory,
have had Australians mixed up with their
history since the cable-station was
established on Pulau Tikus at the begin-
ning of this century, largely by Aus-
tralians. The link was with Perth and
thence with Adelaide, and the staffs,
changed every few years, were largely
recruited from the training-schools at
Adelaide and at La Perouse, Sydney. To
get there the operators had to be sent
to Singapore and then drafted to Cocos
by a cable-repairing vessel or, on rare
occasions, by Governor Ross’s schooner.
Professor'Wood-Jones, former Professor
of Anatomy at Melbourne University,
was at one time a doctor on the island,
and married one of the Ross daughters.
It was G. H. K. La Nauze, of Adelaide,
who broadcast the message about a
strange vessel with a dummy funnel which
caused the Sydney to leave the 1914 Aus-
tralian convoy and come hurrying to
Cocos to destroy the Emden.
♦> ♦> *i*
“X.S.”: A new development for Mel-
bourne damages-for-accidents is a writ
issued out to the Supreme Court for a
woman who claims unspecified damages
for shock at seeing her son, aged three,
killed when he was struck by a post-
hole-digger at the Royal Show last year.
“Nonnel”: “B.A.K.’s” nephew (B.
2/2/’55) has all my sympathy. When
fielding I copped a screaming drive in
the bread-basket, and temporarily lost
all interest in the game. When I
came-to, the citizens who had been
rubbing my tummy seemed highly amused.
I found the cause was my underpants. I
explained that my wife was away at
hospital, and there was no one at home
to do any washing. My own underclothes
were all dirty, and it had been a case
of putting on a pair of Mum’s clean
scanties or going without. “And I chafe
like curry when I am bowling if . .
But what was the use?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Metralia”: “The Cocktail Party” is
being played by a Sydney theatre. How
odd that a rival theatre should weigh-in
with a play called “Martine.”
♦> ♦>
“Fag”: I suppose most motorists at
one time or another have had their car
stop-dead in the traffic, as “Mackville”
(B. 2/2/’55) relates, but not many of us
have been as game as the woman driver
who was caught this way at a busy Mel-
bourne intersection. The driver immedi-
ately behind her kept his hom on
continuously. She got out of her car
and, walking back to him, said naively:
“I’ll sit here and keep your horn going
if you’ll get to my car and see if you
can make it go! ”
TOO INDETERMINATE
“Gent., 50, philosophical disposition, modest
means, ■ would meet lady, comf. circumstances,
same outlook on life.” — View-mat. ad.
Some coves would be disposed to chew
the rag
A rid kick the cat, simply because they’d
reached
An age when vigor might incline to flag,
Convinced their ship of life was almost
beached.
But His half-century he hoists with calm
Philosophy, a rich and rare possession
That’s his especial spiritual balm.
Conjugal shoals he’d face without a
qualm —
That’s the impression
You’d gather from the quiet mating-call
He promulgates through column of
the press
For dame or maid he’ll put himself in
thrall;
Perhaps he’d found his life too purpose-
less.
Whether he picks a Jill who’ll fill the bill,
Or one that turns out to be cata-
strophic ;
Whether the hymeneal road’s uphill
And rough, or flattened out and smooth,
he’ll still 1
Be philosophic.
She could be bottled-ginger, a brunette,
Synthetic blonde, or wear a bun severe;
Be always sucking at a cigarette,
Punt on the dogs, or like her pot of
beer ;
She might be generously endowed with
curves,
Shaped like a cylinder, or just plain
dumpy —
He doesn’t give a damn. But he reserves
Rejection-rights for any dame whose
nerves
Are somewhat jumpy.
Like him, the lady who’d aspire to be
His mate must bend on life a gaze
serene.
Like naturally seeks affinity
With like—you don’t mix water with
benzine.
He also stipulates she’ll have some
dough —
A trifling thing perhaps, but not the
oddest —
To supplement his “modest” income;
though
It’s likely there’ll be aspirants who’ll
show,
Regarding that, a keen desire to know —
Well, just how modest!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD
WHO started this cult for anglicising
some Continental place - names?
After I had travelled through Genova,
Milano, Torino, Venezia, Fiorenze, Roma
(on the Tivere) and Napoli, I began to
wonder where I’d learnt my geography.
The world might be simpler if place-
names were spelt according to local usage:
it’s no use asking in Italy where Venice
is.—“ Dee.”
WE were only pausing in Rome for a
couple of hours while our London-
bound plane refuelled, but a thoughtful
airline company sent us in a motor-coach
to see the sights. A boxed lunch lay upon
every seat, together with a flask of red
Italian wine. There were several empty
seats at the back of the bus, and Bill,
the silent Northern Territorian who had
boarded the plane at Darwin, took up
his position there. The guide, an Italian
“He Wants to know if I've got the Menuetto and Trio from
Symphony No. 1!”
student, was spruiking well in English
that had a rather precious accent. He
gave us a burst on the Colosseum, then
moved on to an ancient Roman house.
From time to time, I noticed that Bill,
who had finished his own flask, was
unhurriedly but systematically emptying
those on the unoccupied seats. The bus
stopped by a sizeable mound of dirt that
didn’t seem to have any special points of
interest, but the guide, who had been
lyrical before, waxed rhapsodic about
the vanished glories of the site. Bill
looked at the mound unimpressed.
“ ’Struth, mate,” he said, gently but
audibly, “you ought to take a look at the
ant-hills round Darwin.” —“Dinkila.”
FEW travellers can resist
the cheap prices at
duty-free ports like Aden,
and often some get good
bargains which they
carry around for the re-
mainder of their overseas
stay, to their great ill-
content. But one has to
be careful. A man on my
ship gleefully brought
back from Aden-town a
handsome watch which
he’d bought for a fiver;
only on the ship did he
decide to start it, and only
there did he find it con-
sisted of case, face, hands
—and no works. Ex-
changes can be a trap,
too. The ship permitted
no English currency to be
taken ashore at Naples.
This did not deter a gallant
fellow taking a fiver
ashore and furtively buy-
ing, “on the black,” lire at
the rate of 2200 to the £,
as against the official rate
of 1730. Nor did it add
to the zest of his trip to
find that the transaction
carried out in the semi-
darkness of a street-corner
had left him with a
one-thousand lire note
wrapped around a bundle of brown
paper. No use going to the police.—
“Warre.”
♦> ❖ ❖
SAW in London an Old Vic company
do “Macbeth” (not very well). The
line about Birnam Wood recalled a
visit the previous week to Birnam Wood
on the River Tay out from Scotland’s
Perth —the wood which once stretched
for miles towards Glamis Castle.
Nowadays there are precisely two trees
left of Bimam Wood —one a gigantic
old oak, the other an equally large
plane-tree, both obviously full of the
weight of time. Some of their branches
lean out 40ft. or more; many are held
up by forked supports. There is a rough
riverside path to the wood from Dun-
keld; most of the surrounding ground
is built upon; and there’s a big modem
hotel a few hundred yards away. The
Tay rushes and swirls by, sometimes with
floods that put the “wood” under water.
But the two trees are an authentic link
with the —if only legendary—past, and
a few minutes spent beside them illuminate
a Shakspearian text which millions know
by heart. —“Ning.”
♦> »!♦
AS we steamed over the Brenner Pass
in Matilda, our rescued derelict from
the ranks of abandoned London taxis,
pity moved us to offer a lift to a large,
cautious Irishman, hitch-hiking, so he
later told us, to Rome.
He cast several doubtful looks at our
boiling vehicle, at us five girls, and at
the luggage that packed every likely-
looking space; then he cast another look
at the lonely road, arid the thin mist of
drizzling rain that drifted across the
splendidly-severe mountains, and with the
manner of one committing himself to
whatever fate might be, he edged himself
timidly into a comer and watched with
fascinated eyes as a geyser of boiling
water from the radiator and a shattering
roar marked Matilda’s starting.
A little later, looking down the
wriggling road into the beauty of the
valleys far below, our traveller hesitantly
voiced the hope that our brakes wouldn’t
get hot on the winding descent. Five
pairs of comforting eyes turned kindly
upon him; gently a spokeswoman
allayed his fears.
“Actually,” said she, “that won’t
happen. We haven’t any brakes” . . .
Anyway, we as good as hadn’t; and
one of the crew had a joyous disregard
for traffic-lights and policeman’s signals
that was hair-raising in the sanest of
traffic; with the antiquated braking-
system it became downright suicidal in
France. There is probably a gendarme
in Rheims who is still disentangling a
traffic-snarl that we caused.
With cars banked up along the converg-
ing roads, which flanked his protecting
rostrum, he gave the halt-signal for us,
and we chugged blithely on.
Pandemonium! Whistles shrieked,
brakes screamed, drivers shouted, horns
tooted ; through it, against all regulations,
27cwt, of English solidity, towering
above the sleek Continental cars, lumbered
purposefully down the middle of the
road.
Five gibbering girls (no, four —our
supremely feminine driver remained
serene) wondered what to do. Thought
struck us simultaneously. We all leaned
out and waved politely and lovingly at the
frenzied gendarme, smiling with warmth
and admiration at him. It worked; be-
mused, he smiled numbly back, and the
last we saw of him was his still-waving
baton, flickering in our direction, whilst
he seemed dazedly oblivious of the all-
time traffic-snarl that howled behind him.
—“Alma.”


PERSONAL ITEMS
Besides being one of the most persuasive
Gent Ones in Melbourne, president of
the Bar Council and President of the
Australian Executive Council of Jewry,
Maurice Ashkanasy, Q.C., has one of
the most uncommon company-director-
ships in history—tragic events happened
to bring it into being. He is Australian
director of Material Claims on Germany,
Incorporated, a New York organisation.
The claims refer to the debt which
Germany has acknowledged it owes to
Jews for the suffering inflicted on them
during the Nazi madness. Ashkanasy is
back in Melbourne, after attending a
conference in* Paris, with £91,000 in his
pocket, handed over by the West Germany
Government to help in the next 12 months
Jewish victims of the terror who migrated
to Australia. It will be spent on educa-
tion of Jewish orphans who lost their
parents and on sick and aged who were
Nazi victims.
• •
This page met, in Sydney from London,
Robert Henry Brand, Ist Baron (cr. 1946)
of Eydon, and found an English gentle-
man, with a first-impression of white
about him —white hair, white moustache
—whose casual attitude and quietly
cultured voice brushed lightly through
an intimate relationship with half a
century of important British history.
He admitted knowing The Bulletin
well, and with affection —he had seen it
first in 1899, at Government House
with his father (then, as Lord Hampden,
Governor of N.S.W.). The visitor, here
for a general look-see at the offices of
North British and Mercantile Insurance
(he’s chairman), is managing-director of
Lazard Brothers, one of the six leading
FINANCE
banking-houses in London, a director
of London “Times,” and also directorially
connected with Lloyd’s Bank.
He knew George Reid and Barton,
and after leaving Sydney was a member
of Lord Milner’s “kindergarten” in South
Africa—so called because of the youth
of his Lordship’s staff. In seven years
in South Africa from 1902 —a revolu-
tionary period—he served with Lord
Selbourne, and, later, General Botha,
first Prime Minister; and Smuts, whom
he knew well all his life.
In War I a member of the Imperial
Munitions Board in Canada, in Hitler’s
stoush he had a somewhat similar post,
though greatly enlarged—for a time
chairman of the British Supply Council
in the U.S., the central British body
responsible for the enormous flow of
food and war-materials pouring eastward
to beleaguered Britain. A Fellow of All
Souls, Oxford, recently president of the
Royal Economic Society and one-time
member of several important interna-
tional financial conferences, he is a
brother of a general (86), brother of an
admiral (84, and chief-of-staff to Beatty),
and is himself 76.
• •
“ACT”: When Sir Robert Garran
lately celebrated his 88th birthday in
Canberra he quipped to the local paper
that “You can’t rely on making your
century when you’re 88; the bowling
is going on all the time” ; but from his
appearance and activities it seems likely
he could make it. He is working on his
memoirs, a large section of which will
deal with the Constitution, using his
personal memories of the conventions
which framed that document. Still
deeply interested in music, art and
repertory, he hopes to see the development
of local-government in Canberra; has
taught himself to type, and carries on
a large correspondence. The paper
called him the “Grand Old Man of the
National Capital.” True enough.
“C. 8.”: Sylvia Fisher, the Melbourne
dramatic soprano returning next month
under the A.B.C. banner, had a fair
reputation in her home-town before she
left for London in 1947, but nobody
murmured “another Melba.” The
following year she was singing leading
roles at Covent Garden and today is
classed among the three or four brightest
stars in the operatic firmament. She could
call herself Signora Übaldo Gardini,
having married a celebrated Italian
violinist of that name, but she prefers
the monicker she was born with.
• •
A sizeable chap in several dimensions
is Grant McConachie, in Sydney from
Vancouver. Six-foot-three as the spark
flies, he’s boss of Canadian Pacific Air-
lines, a pioneer of Canadian aviation and
today one of its biggest figures: in these
parts to organise his company’s new
service from Vancouver to Amsterdam,
by way of the short trans-Polar route.
This, in conjunction with CPA’s trans-
pacific service, will bring Australia closer
to London than ever before —about 50
hours away. The genial giant’s early
career was somewhat similar to that of
our own bush pilots—as chief pilot of
an independent company he was some-
times, with his team, the only link be-
tween civilisation and settlers in Canada’s
vast frozen Northlands. During this
period in the ’thirties McConachie
developed through that territory landing-
strips which became of great value in
War II when aircraft from the big U.S.
factories were being ferried across to
Europe. Australian War H trainee air-
observers will recall their school at
Portage La Prairie, Manitoba—
McConachie was its C.O. The visitor is
notable on another count —he reckons
Australian pubs aren’t too bad at all.
• •
Succeeding T. M. Barry as president
of the Queensland Industrial Court,
Leslie Brown, barrister since 1929, twice
acting-judge of the Supreme Court. He’s
a son of a Charters Towers miner.
• •
A century-old link of Parliamentary
and public service was broken when Sir
Frank Clarke died at 78 in Melbourne.
Son of an early Australian baronet and
grandson of a member of Victoria’s first
Parliament, he was himself in the public
eye for 41 years. Minister for Lands in
the Bowser Government in War I and
Minister for Public Works in the Lawson
Government, he was a director of the
National Bank, the A.M.P. and Golds-
brough Mort, and was President of the
Legislative Council for 20 years. A
picturesque figure, he was a keen gardener
and a graceful writer and made a pet of
the Botanic Gardens, about which he
wrote a book of great charm. He was
a trustee of the Felton Bequest.
• •
“Pawang”: Something new in show-
business in Australia is being introduced
by Walter Suchy, a New Australian who
hails from Czechoslovakia and has dreamt
whales since he was 16. He wants to buy
a whale, as big as possible and quite
fresh ; having got it, he proposes running
refrigerator-pipes through it, mounting
it and touring the country. He should
have arrived in Melbourne last year.
He could have got 80 of them. They were
stranded near a fishing-port and the local
council would have given him the lot
for nothing.
» •
This year’s award of the Services Can-
teens Trust’s post-graduate scholarship
goes to 22-year-old Brian Bolto, of Perth.
The scholarship, awarded annually to*
graduates of Australian universities whose
fathers had war service with the Austra-
lian forces, is the most valuable univer-
sity scholarship in Australia —tenable for
three years, it carries an annual allowance
of £BOO. Bolto is topping-off a brilliant
academic career at the Westralian Uni-
versity by sitting for his Doctor of
Philosophy degree. He will then go to
Purdue University, Indiana (U.S.), where
he will do post-doctorate research in
organic chemistry, m the field of organic
reaction mechanisms. His father, a W.O.
at Pearce, started with the R.A.A.F. in
1935.
• •
“Tos”: Retired, at 70, the Rt. Rev.
Donald Burns Blackwood, M.C., V.D.,
M.A., Th.D., Bishop of Gippsland since
1942, formerly Rector of Trinity Church
of England and Archdeacon of Hobart;
a brilliant classical and theological
scholar. One brother, the late R. L.
Blackwood, was deputy-warden of
Trinity College, Melbourne; another is
Surveyor-General in Tasmania. Most of
the family are in high professional posi-
tions. R. L. Blackwood’s son, Robert,
was Professor of Mechanical Engineering
at Melbourne University, and is now
g.-m. of the Dunlop Rubber Co.; his
daughter is a Doctor of Philosophy and
M.Sc., and a noted science-teacher in
Melbourne. The Bishop’s daughter is a
graduate in medicine (Melb.), has worked
as a medical missionary in Persia, and
is now running a big hospital in West
Pakistan. A C.M.F. chaplain since 1912,
the Bish. was with the 13 th Brigade in
War I, later was senior chaplain of the
Fourth Division, and won his M.C. for
bravery at Villers-Bretonneux. At
Queen’s College, Hobart, he was a
schoolmate of Roy Bridges. He is suc-
ceeded in Gippsland by Canon Davidson,
lately Rector of St. James’s Church,
Sydney.
• • •
Visiting hereabouts, W. S. Carrington,
vice-president of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales.
Partner in the London firm of Whinney,
Smith and Whinney, Carrington finds
time to sit on the British Government
committee currently interested in the
taxation of trading profits. With taxation
his speciality, he’s served on many
important commissions and committees,
both Government and those of his own
institute. He’ll look in on New Zealand,
to represent the English institute at the
Dominion’s convention of the Society
of Accountants.
• •
In response to the Pakistan Govern-
ment’s request for the services of an
engineering expert the New Zealand
Government has sent A. G. Ferry, senior-
engineer of the Works Ministry in South
Canterbury, to lend a hand in building a
sizeable dam in Baluchistan. Ferry has
engineered many big projects in the
Dominion. For three years he was on
the huge Roxburgh hydroelectric
scheme, and the building of an aerial
ropeway at Stockton coalmining area
and opencut mining there were among
his works. The Baluchistan site is
5000 ft. above sea-level, 500 miles from
Karachi, and on it Ferry expects to be
the only European, controlling bat-
talions of local workmen.
• •
Charles Manning Clark is exceptionally
qualified to be a Professor of History.
He not only is a sound historian (and
enjoys being one) but he has a natural
teacher’s gift which attracts disciples and
breeds enthusiasm in his students. Son
of an Anglican clergyman, he went from
Melbourne Grammar to Trinity College,
Melbourne, thence to Balliol. Afterwards
he had a mastership for a time at
Blundell’s, Tiverton, the school which
“girt Jan Ridd” of Lorna Doone attended.
Back home he taught at Geelong Gram-
mar before becoming a lecturer in history
and (for a time) political science at Mel-
bourne University. At 33 he became Pro-
fessor of History at Canberra University
College, which soon will be merged into
the National University; in his seven
years there he has established a high stan-
HISTORY
dard of teaching and done a great deal of
useful work in providing material to
widen the general knowledge of Austalian
history and assemble textbook-material
for others to work on. His Select Docu-
ments in Australian History, 1788-1850,
is already a standard work ; and the con-
tinuation volume, much bulkier, which
has just been published by Angus and
Robertson in Sydney, and which brings
the documentation up to 1900, is the
finest source-book of Australian political,
economic and social history published in
a generation or more.
Analysed hereunder, Ron Nyholm,
Associate Professor of Inorganic
Chemistry at Sydney’s University of
Technology, off to London this week to
the Chair of Chemistry at University
College. Born, appropriately, in metallic
Broken Hill, he got his M.Sc. at Sydney
Uni., lectured for a time at Sydney Tech.,
and in 1947 won an 1.C.1. research-
fellowship to his new London address.
There he researched mainly on the
chemistry of nickel, work which brought
him the Corday-Morgan Medal of the
CHEMISTRY.
Chemical Society of London and his
Ph.D. Appointed to his associate-
professorship in 1952, he was the same
year awarded his D.Sc. —a higher doc-
torate given only to men outstanding in
their field, and usually taking 10 years
to collect. Nyholm got his in four.
Asked to expound on his team’s work
in the technological institution, the prof,
started on what he is doing with
platinum, gold, radio-isotopes and such,
as well as the less glamorous iron, cobalt
and nickel. At present interviewer’s
bewilderment, he grinned and outlined
a more fascinating and understandable
facet of the work. Up there they crushed
ants; object to distil the substance on
the ants’ feet, which substance, left on
the trail, leads others to sugar and such.
Now marketed, it leads the ants to
D.D.T. Moths, too. The female, in the
mating season, gives forth a characteristic
odor much liked by Mr. Moth. This
also, isolated in marketable form, leads
the amorous gentleman to his doom.
A much-liked chief (on the testimony
of his colleagues), Nyholm, 37, still plays
a nifty game of cricket, and likes to
research with his team in a suitable
institution round the corner.
• •
Making this year his last of toil, Peter
McNee, hydraulic-engineer, head of the
Malayan Drainage and Irrigation Depart-
ment for the past five years. In that time
he was lent to other countries to give
expert advice on land-drainage and
-irrigation. One job, in 1953, was report-
ing on engineering problems and water-
control for a rice-planting project near
Darwin. He landed C.B.E. in the New
Year list.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 46, Dr. Gordon Kingsley
Hughes, senior lecturer in organic chemistry
at Sydney University. An Adelaide University
man, he was for four years a representative
on the Australian University Sports Associa-
tion (cricket and baseball his own games) and
later presided over the association. In War II
researching with the British Ministry of Supply,
he gained his Doctorate of Science from
Adelaide Uni. last year.
In Sussex (Eng.), at 72, Captain Duncan
Grant, R.N. (retd.), first commanding-officer of
the Royal Australian Naval College. He had
a second term in command, between 1917-19,
and thus was responsible for teaching seaman-
ship pothooks to Admirals Collins, Farncomb
and Showers. In 1924 he returned to N. S.
Wales as private-secretary to the Governor.
Two sons are serving in the Royal Navy.
In Melbourne, Miss A. M. E. Bale, doyen
of Australian women artists. Daughter of an
inspector of Customs who was a world
authority on zoophytes, she got some of her
art-training from Frederick McCubbin and
Bernard Hall at the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne, where she won many prizes, and also
in Max Meldrum’s studio. She worked in
Europe and exhibited at the Royal Academy,
the Wembley Exhibition and the Australian
Exhibition of 1923, and her “Portrait of a
Lady” struck a note with the critics m the
Paris Salon of 1939. Back in Australia, she
founded the Twenty Melbourne Painters
Society. Her work is in most Australian
galleries; Major-General G. A. Vasey was her
last big subject.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 79, James Hardie
Neil, ear-nose-and-throat specialist who served
Auckland Hospital for half a century. A foun-
dation-member of the Royal Australasian
College of Surgeons, he considerable
merit as a researcher into tonsils and lung
anatomy. In the Boer War a meduio-captein,
in the Kaiser’s he commanded the 3rd NX.
Field Ambulance (D.S O.). C.&.E. came his
way in 1947.


UNPAID OVERTIME


ABORIGINAHTIES
/"\LD CRUSTY steamed his blood-
stained loco, into the shed. His report
was simple: “Cow walked in front of
engine at mileage 95. Engine undamaged.
Cow dead.” Crusty then concentrated
on his thirst and forgot the incident, but
the Railways didn’t. Back came the file:
“Was train in fast motion when cow hit?
Was cow on or off line prior to death?
What action did you take to prevent
killing cow?” Crusty cursed their
stupidity and laboriously replied that to
bring the cow into conflict with engine
to cause cow to become dead would
require cow to be on line and train
"Oh, Well, I suppose if it's occupational-therapy ”
travelling fast enough to knock cow’s
brains out. But the authorities still wanted
to get to the bottom of it all: “Advise
immediately what action taken to prevent
killing cow.” This was too much for
Crusty, so he savagely scrawled his final
word on the business: “Cow walked
on line. Train swerved to left to miss
cow. Cow still walked in front of train.
Engine undamaged. Cow dead.” They
fined him ten-bob for insolence. —
“J.P.C.”
* * # #
“M.U.R.”: Sundry newspapers des-
cribed how Victorians crossed the river
when 10 p.m. closing reached the pubs
on the north bank, but it was mostly
about the 17 pubs in Albury and how
the thirsty came from the smaller
Wodonga, Barnawatha, and other Vic.
villages. What’s got me wondering
is what happened when the population
of 15-pub Echuca crossed to two-pub
Moama, and when a proportion of the
20,000 people in and around Mildura
hit one-pub Gol Gol!
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: About six months
ago research-workers at Sydney Uni-
versity announced a startling new dis-
covery in atomic fission. Recently the
same scientists came over to W.A. and
prospected around Cooglegong, in the
north-west, for the mineral gadolinite.
There may not be any connection —but
there could be, easily. Gadolinite has
been known in W.A., and mined in a
small way, for over 30 years, but it’s
never had much of a market. A silicate
of beryl, yttrium and iron, it has been
mined for the beryllium content; but
uraninite, one form of which is pitch-
blende, occurs frequently in the yttrium
group of minerals, so there’s a big chance
that gadolinite contains some form of
uranium. It’s known to occur in several
places in the West.
* * * *
“Vermouth”: Was out shooting when
my mate, who virtually looks under every
blade of grass for his prey, discovered
bunny hiding in a tussock. With a good
deal of faith in his aim, I thought, he
lined it up from about 4ft., but just as
he squeezed the trigger the rabbit shot-
through, and one of the dogs shot in, and
the bullet punctured the extreme tip of
the hound’s sniffer. Yet it didn’t stop
the pooch’s enthusiasm for the chase —
he kept on and caught three rabbits,
even though the hit was bad enough to
leave him with a slight raspiness in his
breathing.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: Heard in the A.B.C. news
that the school authorities at Aramac
(Central Queensland) were about to
employ free labor (15 sheep) to keep
down the grass in the playgrounds. To
those who don’t know the place the idea
seems excellent; but when I was a
youngster there the boys’ playground
never grew any grass. The whole acre
or so was covered with fine white gravel
—beaut, for cricket, “prisoner’s-base” or
“kick-the-tin,” but lousy as a grazing
proposition. To us the girls’ ground was
forbidden, except when we marched
through one corner of it to enter or leave
the school. Through the spaces between
the close-set posts of the dividing-fence
we could see the girls playing rounders,
kiss-in-the-ring and suchlike; and the
ground was equally bare. Of course,
that was 60-odd years ago; but at that
time you could have fed all the grass
in the two playgrounds to a hungry
rabbit and he’d stiU have been a hungry
* * * *
. .
2M. : On a street-corner m Towns-
ville (Q.) one evening I watched two half-
caste aborigines chumming-up. Says
one to the other, “Are you a black white
or a white black?” Passing traffic pre-
vented my hearing the answer, and I am
“If you hurry We might get two!”
still puzzled to know the difference.
Would any Bully reader have a clue?
* * * *
“Kelms”: My daily, reporting that some-
one placed a paper-bag over the head
of a visiting swooner, said the swooner
removed the bag and “shaped up.” By
that I knew there’d be no fight. A fighter
doesn’t shape up. He knows immediately
whether he intends to fight or not, and
he knows the other bloke knows that,
too ; so he has to act quickly or be beaten
to the punch. Even when the fight is
adjourned to the bull-paddock there are
no preliminaries. It’s shirts off and into
it. Only once have I seen a fighter spar
first. That was when a wheat-lumper
deliberately bumped Jim’s pot in the
Meckering pub. Jim’s fist came up,
stopped near his mouth, and for half a
minute he danced around waving his
left in defence while his right explored
his mouth. Then he hurled his tatts at
me, said “Hold ’em,” and was into it.
After that he never entered a pub without
first removing his teeth. Reckoned it
spoilt his drink to know he couldn’t fight
at the drop of the hat.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: On the Torres Straits
island where I lived, my venerable
rooster was strutting under a rubber-tree
when a falling seed-pod exploded behind
him with an unusually loud detonation,
and the old warrior dropped dead in his
tracks. To me heart-failure (B. 26 /1/ ’55),
produced by the sudden shock, seemed
the only possible verdict.
* * * *
“Spin”: Under the heading “Shark
Alarm,” a Perth daily recounted how a
Sydney lady went for a dip in her
swimming-pool and found a 3ft. Port
Jackson shark in it. There may have been
some alarm, but there was no reason
for any—the shark named Port Jackson is
quite harmless. Its diet is mainly
molluscs; its teeth axe blunt, adapted
for crushing shells. It’s the oldest type
of shark extant, very similar to fossils
found in Triassic deposits, showing that
it hasn’t altered much during the last
few million years. That may be why
it’s harmless. It developed a taste for
shellfish long before animals appeared
on earth, and it hasn’t had any occasion
to change its diet.
* * * *
“A.W.M.”: The verses by Z. V. Webb
(B. 12/1/’55) revived memories. Our
Sunday-school could not aspire to a train
journey for its annual picnic ; our con-
voy was spring-carts and furniture-vans,
polished for the occasion, the horses well
groomed and their shining harness
decked with a u? ° eSS
rosettes T n kV? t d paper ‘
s j low 0 • s tbe y made a brave
Cun Dav the he d on
about si ’ mi , es north Ut £
Towards evening the picnic packed up
and set off for home. When we reached
tbe main road we were usually in time
to meet the buggies returning from
Flemington. The first we met was hailed
with shouts of “Who won the Cup?”—
we ignored the hostile glares from the
teacher in charge of each cartload One
year the reply came back: “Bravo”—
which news was received rather quietly;
the people in the buggy said that
Carbine was second. What a difference
the next year when the reply “Carbine”
was received with shouts and cheers. Old
Jack was a hero even to Sunday-school
kids.
* * * *
A WORD FOR A BIRD
OTRANGE that a nature-worshipper
and observer-recorder like Herman
Melville (B. 26/1/’55) should have said
of penguins (about a century ago, in his
The Enchanted Isles) : —
Without exception, the least lovely
creature yet discovered by man. Though
dabbling in all three elements and indeed
possessing some rudimental claims to all,
the penguin is at home in none. On land
it stumps; afloat it sculls; in the air it
flops. As if ashamed of her failure Nature
keeps this ungainly child hidden away at
the ends of the earth.
Today the bird would be described as
a “quaint” or “pretty little fellow,” and
is one of the most popular of avian
visitees in a zoo. Far from being hidden
away at the ends of the earth, the penguin
is well represented on all continents in
the Southern Hemisphere, and its
rookeries extend from the Equator to
the Antarctic.
As for being one of Nature’s failures,
the penguin is probably the most success-
fully specialised bird in existence.
Melville described the Galapagos
species ; he must have been in a hurry
to have dismissed its activity in the water
as mere sculling.
Admittedly no Landy on land, and
unable to rise into the air, the penguin
is nevertheless one of Nature’s supreme
flyers. It flies through the water as other
birds fly through the air. With the same
wing-movements, effortless ease and
skill, it wheels, darts, dives and zooms,
a miracle of agile grace in the massive
medium.
Ducks and many land animals are good
swimmers, but in this sense the penguin,
although able to sit upright at the surface
and paddle its webbed feet like a duck,
does not swim ; as one authority says:
The only difference between the flight of
a penguin and the flight of a swallow is
that one is in the water and the other in
the air.
Of the 17 known species our Aus-
tralian representative is the little blue
chap that rests among the islands of the
Recherchd Archipelago off Esperance,
and in other parts of the south Westralian
coast. I’ve seen them taken captive on
the rocks and later released at the water’s
edge with as much hope of their recap-
ture as there would be of netting
sunbeams,
Edx.
“THE HUB”
The Editor, humped in his chair,
Consults the laws of libel,
The Leader-Writer in his lair
Quotes proverbs from the Bible,
The Roundsman back from Deegan’s bar
Sits down to type a tit-bit,
The Columnist distorts a par.
To make his sturdy wit fit,
While armed with blade and paste the Cub
Reshapes a “city” story
For Banyo’s miracle, “The Hub,”
For Banyo’s morning glory.
The Social Page copes with a “nob”
She missed at Wednesday’s races,
Farm Forum pens “corn on the cob”
And fidgets with his braces,
The Household Guide repeats last week’s
Time-table for “expresses,”
From Parliament morosely seeks
Briefs in debate addresses,
While Features fattens themes the Sub.
Will cut to ribbons for the
Town’s miracle and voice, “The Hub,”
For Banyo’s morning glory.
The Critic, having seen one act,
Coins loose familiar phrases,
The Court Reporter, tied to fact,
Bids witnesses to blazes,
The Sporting News, harassed by bowls,
Chain-smokes, his forehead well-knit,
The Poultry Points, involved with fowls,
Broods over coops and shell-grit,
While Church Views exits to the pub,
Feeling somewhat sorely
His sober labor for “The Hub,”
For Banyo’s morning glory.
The Linotype’s darkly dismayed
At “snakes-an’-ladders” copy,
Proof-Reader, in a tennis-shade,
Revs up like a jalopy,
The Copy-Boy blinks down his nose
At words that flit like finches,
Type-Setter packs like dominoes
His leaden lines to inches,
While with a grinding great hubbub
There on the quaking floor the
Press turns out the printed “Hub”
That’s Banyo’s morning glory.
The Mayor has made a speech deemed “rare,”
So waits the morrow keenly,
And Pen-Name has arraigned the Mayor,
So waits the same day meanly,
Sophisticated Reader snorts
And calls “the rag” “provincial,”
Another scorns its “plain” reports,
He wants a Walter Winchell,
But whether they condone or snub,
Though they be Left or Tory,
They wait alike to scan “The Hub,”
It’s Banyo’s morning glory.
Ever since “The Hub” began,
Way back with pioneering,
It’s brought the news of crops and man
And given all a hearing;
It may by city views be plain,
Maybe it is provincial,
It lacks that slick and stylish strain,
It has no Walter Winchell;
But to the housewife at her tub,
To locals, young or hoary,
It’s Banyo’s miracle, “The Hub,”
And Banyo’s morning glory.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


TUST received a letter from a friend in
J England referring to the killing of
sheep by wild dogs in our outback. He
inquires if I spend my weekends “out in
the bush shooting dagoes.”—“Wigan.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Was listening to A.B.C.
cricket from Melbourne and heard
Charles Fortune discover a pied bird
walking about in the outfield. He asked
somebody what it was and informed
us it was a “mudlark.” That’s what we
called them in Victoria, because they
build a mud-nest. But when I got to
the Murray the bird became a “Murray
magpie,” further penetration into N.S.W.
disclosed that it was a “pee-wee,” in
some bird-book or other it’s a “magpie
lark,” somebody else calls it a “peewit.”
Asked the one that gets under my feet
every time I garden in Chatswood
(Sydney) what he thought about it; the
answer was a kind of broken scream-
chortle, but whether from the bird or the
beetle in his beak I couldn’t say.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat rushed up to a
porter at Maryborough (Vic.) and yelped,
“Will this train take us to Donald?” The
porter pushed his cap back and replied,
“Well, if the guard, engine-driver, fire-
man, and the Victorian Railways all
function properly it will.” “You forgot
one important thing,” Mat grinned. The
porter considered. “You mean the
signals?” “No,” Mat said, “I mean we
got to be on it first.” The porter spat.
“You got somethin’ there,” he admitted,
without a grin, “but there’s somethin
even comes before that.” “Yair?” “Yair,
y’ got t’ have tickets.”
* * * *
“Terry”: According to “Fairf” (B.
2/2/’55), Nature does not run a Kinsey
Corner for canaries, but most certainly
she edits a Parents’ Page for pigeons.
Our recently acquired pair knew better
than to waste any more time trying to
hatch out their first batch of eggs and
pushed them across the floor and out of
the loft. Apparently moving-time is
upsetting for all husbands.
* * * *
“Zake”: My morning rag’s culinary
authorities have been weighing the
pros and cons of the two methods of
cooking a duff: steaming it or boiling it
in a cloth. The same problem arose for
the babbler of our Army unit. Some
weeks before Christmas he was sent on
a short course to a school, and came
back with a brilliant idea: A Christmas-
pudding! Chief ingredient, crushed-up
iron-ration biscuits, laced with a few
handfuls of precious sultanas, plus some
scrounged odds-and-ends. There being
no unbleached calico available in which
to inter the sod, he tied it up in a new
sandbag, preferring that, after some
cogitation, to steaming it —about which,
anyway, he knew less than about boiling
it. It turned out fair enough, as Army
duffs went; at least it was filling, if
somewhat waterlogged. But the sandbag
had partly disintegrated under boiling,
and the mob spent as much time dredging
bits of jute from between their teeth as
they did chewing the sod. Sentiment was
summed-up by Nugget: “The b ’s
givin’ us dental-floss now with our
puddin’! ”
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Jim, the bulldozer pilot
who has been knocking down the forest
giants in our paddocks, has never suffered
an injury even when mountains were
falling all around him. Lately he bought
his son a plastic imitation of his pre-
historic monster. He was trying to make
“An ancestor of mine!"
it work when he tripped over the carpet
and fell on the boy-size bulldozer. His
badly cut hand swathed in bandages is
a memento of the encounter.
* * * *
“Bass”: “Tidbinbilla” (B. 26/1/’55)
errs in thinking that a meteor’s lumi-
nescence is visible only during its passage
through the air. A fireball is simply a large
and extremely brilliant meteor which may
be visible in daylight and at night be
more illuminating than the full moon ;
and it leaves a luminous train which may
be visible for minutes, while cases have
been known where the luminosity has
persisted for an hour. Yet the time
which elapses from when a fireball
enters the atmosphere to when it either
bums itself out or falls to earth as a
meteorite is only about 10 seconds. The
point is that we see not the meteor but
its effect. When an object enters the
atmosphere an area of heated air is
formed in front of it. This air in turn
heats the meteor, which liquefies and then
vaporises, forming an envelope of in-
candescent air many times larger than the
meteor itself. That’s still visible sometimes
long after the meteor has vanished.
* * * *
“Muskeen”: I tried that stunt of
braking my car over Joe Blake (B.
2/2/’55), but when I alighted to collect
the remains there weren’t any. The next
time I saw Joe, still much alive, was
the following morning, when I lifted the
bonnet of my car. I still can’t work it
out how he got there.
LOST
Where the wave leaps and lingers,
laughs in a whisper and is lost,
where shells belong, surrounding song
where brown seaweed and green shoreweed
mingle
I come on wave-weighted, sand-silent feet
from the pain-bright sun-timed hours
crossing the hissing tides,
which under the moon’s slow sky-climb
lave away
all sorrows of sharp day.
Here death does not tumble, nor life;
only a black and cream eternity
forgives, forgets.
When the white clouds skiff shoreward
in morning—not moonlight—
and a hungry gull harries the waking wave,
must mind become rememberer once more.
N.S.W.
L. E. CRAIGIE.
NO CONVICTION
goody!” exclaimed Agapanthus,
'“'deep satisfaction in her tone.
“And what particular tidings,” 1 asked
mildly, “evokes your use of that revolt-
ingly infantile expression?”
She waved in front of me the women’s
magazine she had been reading. “This
is the week I’ve been waiting for!” she
said excitedly. “My stars are propitiously
aspected for Tuesday. That’s today!”
“They have been before,” I remarked.
“I recall your having rushed in and
“-and ’ow’s missus?”
bought lottery-tickets on such astro-
logically-propitious days, when the
whole heavenly works were supposed to
be juggling themselves into the right
aspects just so that you would be enabled
to get into the big money. The closest
you ever got, if I remember rightly, was
188 off a fiver.”
“That was when Violet Mugg used to
run the column,” said Agapanthus. “She
was no good. But this new woman who’s
been running it for the last month or
two is a real wizard.
“You take Madge Turner. She’s a
Virgoan, and this Clara Klaptrapp—she’s
the one who conducts the astrology-
column now —said that the Wednesday
could be a day for extraordinary luck
in business- and shopping-transactions
if the Virgoan wore something green
between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. Well, Madge
did, and she went into town that day and
picked up that lovely little jade-green
hat at a sale, and for only four-guineas!”
“Wasn’t that the hat,” I asked, “that
you bought from her for three-pounds?”
“That’s the one,” said Agapanthus
eagerly. “It does go beautifully with that
seersucker-nylon of mine, and it’s a
perfect match for my nylon gloves. It’s
one of the best bargains I ever got.”
“But, still, Madge dropped twenty-
four-bob on the deal,” I remarked.
“You’re only trying to twist things!”
defended Agapanthus. “The fact remains
she got a real bargain. It was her lucky
day, as the astrologist said it would be.”
“But she still dropped twenty-four-bob
on it,” I said.
“She might have,” replied Agapanthus,
spiritedly, “but that wasn’t her fault. It
was just that it didn’t go with her shade
of frock as well as they thought it would.
And, anyway, the forward-tilted hat
doesn’t suit Madge.”
“But it was her lucky day, and she
poured over a smacker down the sink,”
I pursued relentlessly.
“Well,” said Agapanthus, no whit
abashed, “how do you account for this,
then, if there’s nothing in this astrology
business”
“Business is right!” I broke in.
Agapanthus ignored the interruption.
“The column said that for last Friday
there would be vibrations which would
ensure any Sagittarian having her own
way right up till midnight on that day.
“Well, Rosalind Binney over the road
did get her own way that day. Jim wanted
her to go over to his mother’s that night,
and she wanted to go to the pictures.
Well, they went to the pictures. So
you see what the stars said turned out to
be quite right. So put that in your pipe
and smoke it!”
“Wasn’t that the day you and Roz
went into town,” I asked. “You went to a
morning show.”
“That’s right,” Agapanthus replied;
“and we went shopping afterwards.”
“And,” I went on, “you were telling me
she’d brought home on appro, a couple
of glazed Florentine figures”
“That’s right,” asserted Agapanthus.
“I’m quite touched at this evidence that
you do sometimes take notice of some of
the things I tell you about.”
“Precisely,” I said, “including the dole-
ful news you conveyed to me a few days
later that Jim had made her take them
back because his account at the store was
already sky-high. So you see she didn’t
get her way.”
“She did about going to his mother’s,”
said Agapanthus, with true feminine logic.
“You must admit the stars were right
there.”
“But not elsewhere,” I insisted; “and
even those parts of our cosmic system
which have seemingly been set on their
courses for the specific purpose of bring-
ing joy to some humans and disaster to
others should at least be consistent.”
I could almost see the wheels turning
around furiously as Agapanthus sought
means to defend the prognostications of
the astrological wizard of the press.
“Well, anyway,” she said at last, “I
know she’s right about today being a
lucky one for me. She says here: ‘You
wifi come out financially on top today
if you get your income from the profits
of a business.’ ”
“But our income comes from my
salary,” I said. “So that couldn’t apply
to you.”
“Of course it could, silly,” she replied.
“Doesn’t your salary come from a
business?”
“But it’s someone else’s business,” I
said, “not mine.”
“That’s only splitting hairs,” protested
Agapanthus. “It derives from a business
—who cares whether it’s yours or a
company’s?”
“The astrological wizard would have
said from salary or wages if she hadn’t
meant to convey a man or woman running
his or her own business,” I put in.
“Well, anyway,” declared Agapan-
thus, “I’m going to town today, and I’ll
just prove to you she’s right.”
When I got home Agapanthus was
wearing the unmistakable air of triumph.
“There,” she said. “Look at that,
smarty! Unwrap it.”
I opened the parcel she indicated. It
was my favorite brand of white shirt
with two collars.
“Only twenty-five-and-six!” she said.
“Specially reduced for today from forty-
two-shillings! And look at this!” She
gave a shriek of pure ecstasy, and whisked
it out. “Look at this strawberry summer-
weight coat for only eighty-five-and
eleven —I saw exactly the same thing at
Frosk’s for seven-guineas. Now, if il
hadn’t been for the astrologer in the
paper I’d never have got them. Now
perhaps you’ll revise your opinion ol
them.”
It was after dinner that I was idly
looking at the magazine lying open at the
astrological-notes. I saw that it was the
issue of the week before last, and that the
item concerning luck on Tuesday referred
therefore to the previous Tuesday.
BO.


a lank-SiHkiWlask Force
I*:
■ f '
•' -■
t
i‘
,' ■ '-I
■
1 V *
% •
Pv#^
it«r. s >^
€**&'*''
mm
<im&
PI If
fp
#
sSgSg* gaag
m
y<y.x
iWSSftASfc
mm
m
s*
i
A Nuffield “M 4” Kerosene-powered Universal
Tractor on 13.50 x 24 rear tyres tank-sinking
with a 7ft. hydraulically-operated front end
blade. By utilising both internal and external
Hydraulic systems a Ripper mounted at rear can
be used independently or in conjunction with the
blade without driver leaving seat.
ALL PURPOSE POWER.- In addition to the conventional sources of
power, i.e., drawbar, Belt-pulley and power take-off, the Nuffield
Universal is equipped with the only hydraulic system with both internal
and external hydraulic tapping points— by tvhich means both front
and rear mounted hydraulically operated implements can be used
TOGETHER or independently without the driver leaving his seat (this
applies to working the implements or transporting them). Front and
rear mounted attachments that can be used include bulldozers, front-
end loaders, hydraulic tipping trailers, scoops, rippers and
hydraulically-operated trailed implements.
UOTO/?
BMC
28.32
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffie d Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
DISTRIBUTORS—
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-FALKINER
PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY
LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Business, Rollery, Etc
Oil-drilling Intensifies
HTHOUGH only mild interest
is being taken in oil shares
on the Stock Exchange at present
—and that is all to the good—
more real oil-searching activity
is going on in Australia than at
any other time.
Over in W.A. West Aus-
tralian Petroleum’s Rough
Range No. 7 has been drilled to
4281 ft. —the oil-horizon in
Rough Range No. 1 was 3605-
3620 ft. —and abandoned. No. 8
hole has been sited about 2000 ft.
slightly south of west from No.
7. No oil has been encountered
in any of the holes drilled at
Rough Range apart from No. 1,
and there electric-log surveys
have been run to obtain
maximum geological informa-
tion ; 7in. casing will be run to
10,700 ft. The oil and gas show-
ings encountered in drilling
the well will then be retested.
Warroora No. 1, Wapet’s first
wildcat well in the salt-marsh
area about 100 miles south of
Rough Rangfe, was down to
1988 ft. on February 14, a gain
of 301 ft. in a week. A core
taken between 1980 ft. and
1988 ft. showed Bft. of grey
shale.
At the other Wapet site at
Grant Range (drilling has ceased
for the time being at Cape
Range) the drill is down to
6460 ft. (365 ft. in a week), and
the formation is reported to be
of hard interbedded siltstone,
shale and sandstone. The Grant
Range hole is in almost exactly
la ; t. 18° south, long. 124° east.
Associated Freney Oilfields,
N.L., is drilling 40 miles south-
east from Wapet’s Grant Range
hole (which is 800 n.-e. miles
from Exmouth Gulf). Last week
Associated Freney announced a
small showing of oil between
2675 ft. and 2680 ft. in its
Nerrima well. The oil was of a
heavy waxy consistency. It was
officially stated that too much
importance should not be
attached to the showing.
Freney has another area about
20 miles south-east of Wapet’s
Grant Range hole. In addition,
it has a third area 25 miles to the
north-east of Grant Range. Up
to World War II the old Freney
Kimberley co. had bored to a
depth of 4271 ft. at Nerrima
without striking oil.
West Australian Petroleum
Pty., Ltd., is to enlarge its W.A.
prospecting programme within a
few months. Three seismograph
crews are to be added, equipment
for the first of which should
reach Fremantle towards the end
of April. Arrival of the crews
will increase the number of
geological and geophysical
exploration parties operating on
Wapet’s behalf to 11 and the
number of men from 95 to 170.
Seismograph crews will be
operated by Geophysical
Services, Inc., under contract to-
Wapet.
Mr. J. W. Thomas, manager
of Wapet, explained that the
seismograph has been adapted by
oilmen to help them map layers
of rocks thousands of feet under-
ground when they set-off small
charges of dynamite. This
information defines areas which
may contain oil-bearing sedi-
ments. But it was still necessary
to drill these areas before any
definite knowledge could be
obtained as to whether or not
they contained oil.
In Queensland, Westland Oil,
drilling at Warbreccan, has
reported traces of oil in the
drilling-mud from 4000 ft. This is
the first hole to be drilled (under
contract) by Westland.
Longreach Oil, which is having
its No. 2 hole drilled by Oil
Drilling and Exploration, reports
that the bit has reached 2903 ft.
0.D.E., drilling at Cherwell
Creek, in the Maryborough
Basin, has reached a depth of
9115 ft., with almost solid sand
showing except for a few shale
“Would you care to try it out, madam ?”
breaks. The comparatively great
depth is interesting in view of the
usually shallow basement found
in Queensland.
At Reid’s Dome (Q.) Aus-
tralasian Oil Exploration has
found nothing exciting after
drilling to around 6000 ft.
Frome-Lakes Pty., Ltd., has
accepted the tender of Oil Drill-
ing and Exploration for the
sinking of a test-bore on the
Darriman structure in Gippsland
(Vic.). Frome-Lakes is backed
by D’Arcy Exploration, Vacuum
Oil and Consolidated Zinc. A
large drilling-rig is expected to
be on the job about the middle
of May.
In the Gippsland area Wood-
side (Lakes Entrance) Oil Co.
and Mineral Ventures, N.L., are
also prospecting for oil.
Oil Drilling and Exploration
has also begun drilling at
Kurrajong (N.S.W.) on behalf
of Australian Oil and Gas, Ltd.
The National 55 rig being used
is said to be one of the largest
ever brought .to Australia, and
certainly the largest ever used in
N. S. Wales.
Outside the mainland, in
Papua, Australasian Petroleum
is now testing the formation
below 13,740 ft. in Omati No. 1
well. A packer had been stuck
in the dogleg hole which had to
be drilled after enormous gas-
pressure closed the original hole
at 13,743 ft. in May, 1954. The
packer has now been recovered.
Surface-control equipment was
specially brought from overseas
to allow testing of the hole to
be carried out notwithstanding
the high gas-pressure. Share-
holders in Oil Search (which has
a 10 p.c. interest in Australasian
Petroleum and Island Explora-
tion) may not have to wait much
longer before the value of Omati
No. 1 is known. Omati No. 2
is being drilled steadily, though
comparatively slowly by main-
land experience. The country
being drilled through is more
difficult than, for instance, in
Queensland, where the daily rate
has been as much as 400 ft. in
some cases.
McPhersons, Ltd.
McPhersons’ shares have had
a sharp rise in Melbourne. After
going above 50s. they have come
back to around 495. 6d., com-
pared with 445. in November
last.
It is a quality stock. Profit for
1953-54 was equal to 23 p.c. on
capital, and an 11 p.c. ord. dis-
tribution was made, with more
than was distributed being carried
to reserves. The co. and its
subsidiaries make machine-tools,
bolts and nuts, rivets, dog-spikes,
electrical ironwork and pumps,
and are distributors of workshop
equipment, tools of trade and
general engineering supplies. A
capital outlay of more than half
a million pounds is expected dur-
ing the next two or three years—
mostly on new or enlarged work-
shops or premises. On current
figures the outlay could be
financed out of profits.
In the decade since conversion
to a public co. (the business will
celebrate its centenary in I 960)
capital has grown from £782,899
to £2,951,690, but expansion
doesn’t appear to have been
overdone, and the extra money
has always found profitable
employment.
Unless plans have been made
for capital expenditure beyond
the half-million mentioned six
months ago, there seems to be
no likelihood of a new share-
issue this year. A div.-declara-
tion is not due until October.
Though the stock is undoubtedly
a good one for holding, last
week’s big rise in the shares
appears to be the result of heavy
buying by fixed trusts to fill their
portfolios, and it is very likely
that the scrip will be available
more cheaply later on.
J. & A. Brown
The £1 ords. in J. & A. Brown
and Abermain Seaham Collieries
are again at par, to yield 8 p.c.
on the current div. basis. The
scrip has unusual attractions
among colliery stocks. The
co.’s mines are becoming highly
mechanised, with increasing all-
round efficiency, and a new
collier should soon be in service.
Finances are strong.
Oil in New Caledonia
“Spectator”: The Bulletin’s
report on the oil-strike in
New Caledonia (B. 2/2/’55)
recalls that about 1905-07
my firm had a bottle of
crude oil sent from New
Caledonia ; a cattle-breeder used
to skim the stuff from a soak on
his property and lubricated his
farm machinery with it.
Shown to one of the oil
companies in Sydney, it at once
aroused great interest. A sample
was sent to the U.S.A., with the
result that an exploration-party
was sent to New Caledonia.
They put down a bore not north
of Noumea, but at Anse Vata,
on the borders of the bay (Anse),
about five miles south. The bore
was sunk for some depth, and on
my many trips to New Caledonia
I always called on the chief
driller. Abundant traces of oil
were found ; in fact, I have seen
oil baled out of the bore and
smelling and looking like the
original sample, but after about,
I think, three years’ work without
further results it was abandoned.
Deep Drill-hole
“Quo Vadis”: The deepest
hole in the ground in Queens-
land is now thought to be at
Cherwell Creek (Maryborough),
where a company drilling for
oil has reached over 9115 ft. It
is to be drilled deeper. The
previous deepest was in the Isis-
ford district (C.Q.), where oyer


obilgas
* UP TO 25* MORE ENGINE POWER
* CHECKS PRE-IGNITION PING.
* CORRECTS SPARK PLUG MISFIRING
* ELIMINATES STALLING
* QUICKER STARTING, FASTER WARM-UP
* COMBATS GUM.
Change to
Mobilgas
It will step-up the performance of every
car irrespective of age or make
65418
at the sign of the Flying Red Horse
30 years ago a deep hole drilled
for water failed, and the drillers
went further for oil. The search
was given up after just passing
the 7000 ft. mark.
Uranium-prospecting
The Kalgoorlie branch of
the Amalgamated Prospectors
Association of W.A. has
come to the conclusion that
the art of prospecting is fast
dying out, and in order to
stimulate and dispense the
information from those capable
and still active enough, it has
been intensifying its campaign
by public lectures and demon-
strations. The result is that a
considerable number of people
are interesting themselves in the
search for metals and minerals.
During 1954, lectures on
radioactive ores and prospecting
were delivered by two local
geologists, G. Spencer-Compton,
B.Sc., A.W.A.S.M., and W. H.
Cleverly, 8.A., B.Sc.
These lectures were so highly
praised and used on extensive
north-west expeditions that the
branch was prompted to publish
them with the idea of putting the
information on permanent
record. The booklet has been
called Uranium and Radioactive
Ores, for the Fieldman, Pros-
pector and Public.
In the introduction to his
lecture, Mr. Cleverly says that the
atoms of certain chemical
elements are unstable, and they
decay in a number of stages, each
stage being accompanied by the
emission of particles or of rays
akin to X-rays. Elements
unstable in this way are said to
be radioactive. It was formerly
supposed that man could not
accelerate atomic disintegration,
but the advent of the atomic
bomb marked the end of that
era of thought. Later, there has
emerged’ the more comforting
realisation that the enormous
quantities of energy released by
nuclear changes can be harnessed
to generate industrial power.
The naturally occurring radios
active elements of especial
interest are the metals uranium
and thorium. The uranium is
principally the type U 238, but
containing about 1 per cent, of
the fissile U 235. The uranium
(atomic) bomb now appears to
have been relegated to the role
of initiator of the much more
powerful hydrogen-bomb or even
entirely superseded. Both
uranium and thorium can be
used to generate power and to
“breed” further atomic fuels.
In nature, one of the inter-
mediate stages of uranium-decay
results in radium, a small pro-
portion of which will always
occur in any uranium mineral.
Particularly for this reason,
uranium-bearing materials have
been of interest for over
half a century. But they have
been radium rather than uranium
ores. The radium was employed
largely for therapeutic purposes
and the uranium in such homely
ways as the imparting of
attractive glazes to ceramic
ware.
The first of the stages of
uranium-decay is exceedingly
slow when compared with the
others. In other words, the “life”
of uranium is enormously long
when compared with the
members of the chain of disin-
tegration products. Paradoxi-
cally, therefore, most radio-
activity in uranium ore is only
indirectly due to uranium, and a
sample of purified uranium salt
shows a negligible radioactivity.
A similar argument applies to
thorium. The final products of
decay for both uranium and
thorium are types of lead.
Both uranium and thorium are
probably present in the- earth’s
crust to the extent of only a few
parts per million, yet they should
not be thought of as belonging
to the class of the rarest and
most precious metals. Rather,
they are high-priced industrial
metals. A number of attempts
have been made to estimate the
relative abundance of the
elements, and whilst these
estimates vary greatly in detail,
they are generally in agreement
that uranium and thorium are
several times more abundant
than silver and many times more
abundant than gold. Even such
familiar metals as tin may be
less plentiful than uranium.
But abundance must not be
confused with availability. The
radioactive metals are much
more diffuse in their occurrence,
and known workable concentra-
tions are relatively few. Astro-
nomical tonnages of granitic
rocks contain about one-
thousandth of one per cent,
uranium, which is equivalent to
a few dwt. per ton, but present
economic limits are in pounds
rather than pennyweights per
ton. Certain bituminous and
phosphatic sediments, about 10
times richer in uranium than the
granites, provide another example
of diffuse occurrence. One
estimate of the uranium present
in rocks in this group in Sweden,
Russia and North America puts
the quantity at over 2,000,000
tons. As an example of economic
material, the Rum Jungle run-
of-mine ore carries rather less
than 0.3 per cent, uranium, or
about 61b. per ton.
Mining of uranium, says Mr.
Cleverly, must be on an economic
basis just as much as with any
other mineral. There is no ques-
tion of mining uneconomic
material except conceivably in
times of national emergency.
Mr. Cleverly then gets down
to tin-tacks with information
for the prospector. Out of 350
mineral names he selects four as
being of most interest to the
prospector. These are monazite,
uranite (including pitchblende),
the pegmatite group, and the
oxidised group (such as
torbernite, autunite and
carnotite). He describes their
mode of occurrence, their
appearance and their importance,
Mr. Spencer-Compton, in the
same booklet, has added chapters
on “Recognition and Detection
of Radioactive Minerals and
Deposits” and “Deposits and
Prospecting.”
He points out that most of
the minerals and ores with which
the mining industry has been
concerned in past centuries have
depended, for recognition and
detection, upon means and
methods which have been in use
for hundreds of years, especially
with regard to ores of copper,
lead, gold, tin, iron, etc. Visual
methods of detection have regard
to color and appearance, while
relative weight is also
important.
Tests have been devised cover-
ing most of the ordinary metals
a nd ores by which a fieldman,
or a man not very far removed
from the field, can have informa-
tion about a particular find or
occurrence.
But the sudden rise to
importance of the minerals of
uranium and thorium in the last
few years has brought the
mineral world up against a great
difficulty—the difficulty of
detecting with some certainty
these new types of minerals,
which are so new to most people
because they have been so rare
and so little exhibited. These
are minerals that contain the
elements U and Th.
Mr. Spencer-Compton adds
that detection and recognition
G f minerals are one matter, but
finding the minerals in the field
anc j locating an ore-body are
a nother.
jj e describes the outward
appearance of some of the prin-
c}pai minerals as to color and
we j g h t , and mentions other
metho d s of detection. He also
describes the mode of occurrence
c f radioactive minerals in other
parts G f t fi e WO rld, methods of
prospecting there, and gives a
series of tips for the prospector
in Australia,
Uranium and Radioactive
Ores is published at 2s. a copy,
and is available (a 3|d. stamp
would cover postage) from
Amalgamated Prospectors
Association of W.A., Box 217,
Kalgooriie, W.A.
Faith in the
Future
One of the fascinations of living in a young
country like Australia is that History abounds in
its towns and cities —a history not yet too encrusted
with time, but fresh, and fairly close to us in our
own generation.
A statue of Sir Henry Parkes has just been
delivered to Tenterfield to commemorate the speech
of 1889 in which that great old warrior launched
the movement towards Australian Federation.
In the main street, on the hall where he spoke,
is a tablet unveiled by the Duke of Gloucester to
proclaim the site of the event.
Everyone with a sense of national pride must
appreciate these salutes in memorial to the past.
In itself, this was just another speech by a man
declaiming on one of the controversies of his day.
He had his contemporary critics, his adversaries in
public life. But he also had vision, and the courage
to say and do what he thought to be right.
Above all, he had a strong love for Australia.
In one spirited stroke he drew the hesitant
colonies together, so that out of their deliberations
in the next decade there was to emerge the
Commonwealth.
Have you ever thought of the possible conse-
quences to this country in the two later wars, if
the separate colonies had not been welded in 1901
for the prime purpose of co-ordinating the national
defence?
More than he was ever to know, Parkes
influenced the life of his country when he spoke
to a handful of people in a little hall in an
Australian provincial town.
That is how History is made, sometimes
unobtrusively, often undramatically. It can be
sparked from the impact of an ordinary deed, a
simple phrase.
It is early in the Australian day. History is
still being lived and spoken, and we in our modest
ways are its individual makers. Defence and
Development remain the spur to our effort, as they
were to an aged man one evening in Tenterfield
66 years ago.
H. Hastings Deening


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
( V ice-Chairman)
A. E. Bond J. JR. Faviell
F. B. Fleming G. B. Kater
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary: Chief Trust Officeri
P. H. Andrews M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.S9.JB
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Aust.), Ltd.
SUBJECT to the effects of impending
competition, which the board says it
welcomes in the interests of efficiency in
the industry, the outlook for this big
tobacco-manufacturing group parent
holding co. and five main operating sub-
sidiaries —which enjoys a commanding
position in the trade, is brighter than it
has been for over a decade.
Demand has consistently run ahead of
output in the Australian tobacco-manu-
facturing trade since World War II began.
Of recent years the gap has been filled
by importation of manufactured tobacco,
chiefly cigarettes from the U.K., which
sell at higher prices than the comparable
Australian article. Meanwhile the B.T.
group set up production-units at new
centres and expanded the capacity to its
existing plants. To help meet the capital
outlay involved, and provide the extra
funds which bigger output and the
upward sweep of prices called for, those
on the parent’s register put up £6,024,815
of fresh capital (£4,016,543) and share-
premiums (£2,008,272) since 1948. The
last £2,677,695 of share-capital, which
brought with it £669,424 of premium
money, was issued just before the close
of accounts in 1953.
Owing to the sluggish rise in controlled
selling-prices and brisk advance of labor
and raw-material costs, net earnings have
been slow to respond to the bigger
volume of trade and increased opera-
tional efficiency. A run of 9 p.c. divs.
was interrupted in 1950, when the rate
dropped to 6-\ p.c., followed by 9 p.c.,
p.c. and 9 p.c. again in 1953. Then the
picture began to brighten, thanks to “a
better t nderstanding of the co.’s prob-
lems by the authorities.” More dollars
became available, enabling the co. to
buy more American leaf, which consti-
tutes the bulk of its raw-material pur-
chases, and the dollar price steadied.
More Rhodesian and Australian leaf was
bought, too. At the same time there was
a marked reduction in the quantity of
cigarettes imported, and two of the major
items in operating costs (wages and
wrapping-materials) were less trouble-
some.
After setting aside £299,184 (up
£24,229) for depreciation, an unstated
amount for taxation, and adding £440,450
net to various revenue reserves, net
earnings of the group were put at
£1,469,121 (up £390,434). Including the
additions to revenue reserves, the year’s
profit was £1,909,571:
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.*
r — 1 Dividends N Nominal
Pref. Re-
Oct., Profit. 6i p.c. Ordinary. serves.f
1950.. 813,247 111,188 6jp.c. = 696,201 2,843,094
Unexplained addition, £11,277 .. 2,854,371
1951.. 1,065,399 111,188 9 pc. = 963,970 2,844,612
From inner reserves, £1,694,015 .. 4,538,627
From depreciation provision, £933,240 5,471,867
1952.. 1,000,444 111,188 Bjp.c. = 883,640 5,477,483
From tax provision, etc., £454,727.. 5,932,210
1953. . 1,078,687 111,188 9 p.c. = 963,970 5,935,739
Share premiums, £669,424 .. ..6,605,163
1954. .1,909,571 111,188 10 p.c. =1,338,848 7,064,698
* After deducting outsiders’ interests, f Subject to
intangibles (now £3,995,525).
The £1,909,571 was enough to pay the
pref. divs. and show 13.4 p.c. on the
£13,388,476 of ord. and “B” share capi-
tal, compared with 9.9, 8.3, 8.9, 6.5, 9
and 9 p.c. back to 1948. On share-
holders’ funds the £1,909,571 was only
8.6 p.c. The div. was lifted from 9 p.c.
to 10 p.c., which was the rate paid for
the four years to 1940.
Improvement in the financial position
was pronounced, the more-or-less liquid
surplus being £3,643,393 stronger at
£16,145,452:
• Consolidated Figures.
1952. 1953. 1954.
& £ £,
Paid capital .. 12,421,369 12,443,638 15,099,064
Reserves .. .. 5,477,574 6,935,739 7,064,698
Outside interests 80,150 80,150 79,550
Deprec. reserve. . 2,395,186
Creditors, etc..f 7,094,133 9,663,767 9,976,060
Final divs. .. 240,993 107,108 267,770
27,709,405 28,220,402 32,487,142
Freeholds .. 1,556,014 712,426* 671,752*
Plant, etc. .. 2,566,613 1,249,418* 1,430,583*
Stocks .. .. 17,690,634 19,908,583 23,810,407
Debtors .. .. 1,717,857 2,133,369 2,333,264
Shares other cos. 101 101 101
Cash, etc. .. 182,762 221,081 245,510
Goodwill, etc. .. 3,995,424 3,995,424 3,995,525
27,709,405 28,220,402 32,487,142
t Includes overdraft and tax provision, etc.
* Cost, less depreciation.
The £3,324,950 of fresh capital and share-
premiums gathered during the year, to-
gether with surplus earnings, etc., was
used mainly to carry more stocks (up
£3,901,824) and book-debts (up £199,895),
expand plant (up £181,165 net) and
reduce the overdraft (now £6,003,295,
down £593,548), which is included with
sundry creditors in the table.
To help close the present gap between
supply and demand the co. proposes to
build “the biggest cigarette-factory in
Australia” at Ormond (Vic.), which is
to be equipped with modern automatic
machines, and to erect new warehouses
and offices at Adelaide and Hobart. No
hint has been given as to the capital out-
lay likely to be involved, or whether
shareholders will be asked to assist.
What effect competition from the new
American-sponsored co., Phillip Morris
(Aust), Ltd. (paid capital £1,700,000),
will have upon the B.T. business remains
to be seen. The board says the group
can “more than hold its own,” and is
“fully confident” of the future. The
Phillip Morris factory (Melbourne),
which is due to begin production on a
small scale at an early date, will ulti-
mately have a capacity equal to about
one-third of Australian cigarette
consumption.
Mindful of the history of the B.T.
group, the market expresses its confidence
by pricing the f.-p. £1 ords. at 355.
(335. 3d. a year ago) to return 5.7 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. On the same
basis, the “B” shares at 335. 3d. return’
6 p.c. The prefs. at 235. yield 5.6 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £lO 12s. 6d. prefs.
and 245. 7d. ord. and “B” shares.
i
Vesta Battery Co., Ltd.
AFTER taking over the rights of the
Vesta Battery Corp. (U.S.) in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand 26 years ago,
the co. plodded along in a small way
until the public became interested in
1948. Since then the growth has been
rapid and profitable, thanks to the enter-
prise of the management and expansion
of the motor and tractor' trades, etc.
And the now-four-year-old subsidiary,
Vesta Products Pty., which turns out
battery-chargers and -testing appliances,
automobile jacks and a growing range
of automotive electrical gadgets, is
stepping along in fine style, too.
During the seven years to June 30
last shareholders received divs. averaging
approximately 15 p.c., paid capital
climbed from £22,056 to £317,015 with
the aid of £44,594 of bonus-scrip and
three new cash issues at par, and reserves
were built up from £29,769 to £234,163.
Also, £125,307 of 6 p.c. registered 10s.
notes were issued in January, 1953, and
are earning a lot more than their keep.
They are convertible into f.-p. 10s. ords.
on a par basis at the end of 1956, or
redeemable in cash at face-value in
January, 1958, at holder’s option.
The business is well-spread through-
out the Commonwealth and New
Zealand. Turnover continued to increase
last term, when, after allowing for depre-
ciation (£14,139, up £2172) and taxation
(£61,359, up £12,424), net earnings of
the parent and subsidiary rose by £15,929,
reaching £103,909, or nearly five-times
the 1948 figure:
Parent Only.
( Divs. —,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.t
£/ £> £,£/£/
1948.. 22,553 418 12 p.c. = 16:440 6,694 29,767
Assets revaluation, £14,638 .. .. 44,405
1949.. 41,407 418 17$ p.c. = 23,977 17,012 61,417
Less exchange adjustment, £770 .. 60,647
1960.. 41.779 418 15 p.c. = 25,689 15,672 76,319
1951.. 49.636 418 15 „ „ 38,908 10,310 86,629
Parent and Subsidiary.
From inner reserves, £1520 .. .. 88,149
Add exchange adjustment, etc., £5430 93,579
1952.. 67.004 418 15 p.c. = 46,990 19,586 113,165
Capital profit, £lB6O .. .. .. 115,025
Add exchange adjustment, £2BOB .. 117,833
1953.. 87.980 418 15 p.c. = 46,990 40,572 158,405
Special N.Z. reserve, £16,630 .. 175,035
Add exchange adjustment, £2627 .. 177,662
1954.103,909 418 15 p.c. = 46,990 56,501 234,163
t After deducting intangibles, £14,500.
The £103,909 was enough to pay the
small pref. div. and show 33 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 27.9 p.c.
and 21.2 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
And the position might have been better
than claimed, because a special reserve
of £16,630 was “created” against a pos-
sible decline in the price of lead in
respect of a N.Z. contract. The div. was
kept at 15 p.c., money being wanted in
the business.
Expansion is the keynote of balance-
sheet figures:—
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £4,650 £4,650 £4,650
Ord 313,265 323,265 313,265
Reserves .. .. 127,665 172,905 248,663
Notes . . .. 125,307 125,307
Mortgage .. .. 9,872 49,409 48,903
Overdraft . . . . 116,712 21,611 75,032
Creditors . . . . 175,733 242,916 244,793
Tax provision . . 90,068 51,026 66,618
Final div. .. 47,408 23,704 23,704
£885,873 £1,004,793 £1,150,940
Land and buildings 127,481 145,475 170,412
Plant and machinery 86,371 100,125 131,551
Furniture, fittings 33,262 37,964 42,492
Stock . . . . 424,398 395,592 462,504
Debtors . . . . 183,493 255,240 328,730
Cash, etc. • . . 15,868 55,897 751
Intangibles .. 14,500 14,500 14,500
£885,373 £1,004,793 £1,150,940
To meet net additions to fixed assets
totalling £60,891, carry an extra £66,912
of stocks and a further £73,490 of
debtors’ balances, only £53,421 was added
to the overdraft and £lBB2 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors. There was
an improvement of £13,903 in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£207,623), despite
the outlay on fixed assets.
Since the close of accounts two small
businesses have been bought—Challen’s
Battery Service Pty., Perth (W.A.), for
£lO,OOO, satisfied by the issue of 8889
f.-p. 10s. ords. at a premium of 12s.
each, and Doring Industries, Ltd., lead-
refiners and oxide - manufacturers,
Wellington (N.Z.), for £A60,302, pay-
ment being made in 57,430 f.-p. 10s.
ords. at a premium of 11s. each.
To finance purchase of new plant (now
on order from U.S.) and extensions to
the Wellington (N.Z.) factory and pro-
vide more working capital for Vesta
Products, 235,866 new 10s. ords. are to
be offered at par to those on the ord.- and
note-registers at March 2 next, one for
every four shares and/or notes then
held. That will lift paid capital to
£469,008 in 4650 £1 9 p.c. prefs. and
928,716 10s. ords. The pref. div. and
15 p.c. to the ords. will then, call for
£36,469 less profit than was claimed last
term.
After exercising the rights and allow-
ing for brokerage, the net price of the
ords. at 255. lOd. is 225. lid., and the
return 6.6 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. The
rights thus have a theoretical value of
12s. lid. The 10s. notes recently fetched
21s. 3d. The buyer of four notes at
this price would be entitled to take up
los. share at par, making total cost
of the parcel, plus brokerage, 965. 4d.,
on which the immediate return would
be 4 p.c., or 7.7 p.c. should the notes
be converted into shares in 1956, and the
div. be maintained at 15 p.c.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane)
■pUBLIC interest in the co.’s scrip has
been stimulated by (1) rumors of a
likely “take-over” bid from powerful
southern retail interests, (2) an increase in
the co.’s nominal capital from £750,000
to £1,250,000, and (3) announcement of
a bonus scrip-issue, four for eleven, to
those on the register at March 16 next.
As for the rumor, the board says no
offer for the business has been received
from any outside interest. The lift in
nominal capital seems to foreshadow a
request to shareholders, at some future
date, for assistance in financing further
expansion of the business. The chairman
says there is no intention of asking share-
holders for more capital at the moment,
nor does the board intend to embark
upon a major new-building programme
in the immediate future.
One of Brisbane’s biggest department-
stores, the co.’s shop is at the Valley
end of the city, where long-term prospects
for retailers have been enhanced by the
rapid post-war growth and spread of
population. The co. also owns properties
nearby in Wickham-, Warner-, Ann- and
Barlow-street. The chairman assures
shareholders that, if and when the board
decides the time is opportune to build
on these freeholds, or make additions
to present premises, or enter upon new
ventures not now covered in the store,
not a penny will be spent until the
directors are satisfied about the revenue-
producing aspects of any such under-
taking. And there the matter stands
for the present.
The bonus scrip-issue is to come from
a reserve created by revaluation of free-
holds, and will lift paid capital —steady
at £550,000 for the last 34 years—to
£750,000, on which 10 p.c. would call for
£28,484 less than last term’s record profit.
And the 10 p.c. would be equal to 13.6 p.c.
on capital as it stood before the gift.
After allowing £15,510 (up £162) for
depreciation and £60,000 (up £20,000)
for taxation, the spring in last term’s
net earnings was £28,294:
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1948.. 75,189 8 p.c. = 44,000 31,189 287,193
1949.. 72,583 8 „ „ 44,000 28,583 315,776
From tax reserve, £20,000 .. .. 335,776
1950.. 76,235 10 p.c. = 55,000 21,235 357,011
1951.. 86,370 10 „ „ 55,000 31,370 388,381
1952.. 58,126 9 „ „ 49,500 8,626 397,007
1953.. 75,191 10 „ „ 55,000 20,191 417,198
1954.. 103,484 12£ „ „ 68,750 34,734 451,932
The £103,484 of profit was equal to 18.8
p.c. on capital as against 13.6, 10.5, 15.7,
13.8 and 13.2 p.c. back to 1949. Another
pleasing feature is the tight hold the
management has kept upon controllable
exes., which took 74 p.c. of last term’s
gross profit compared with 79.6 p.c. and
82.3 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
After the borrow-and-bust boom of the
1920’5, there was a drift of the shopping
public from the Valley to the Queen-
street end of the city, and, until recently,
McWhirters never quite regained its old
earning-power. A run of 10 p.c. divs.
to 1930 was followed by distributions
averaging 5.7 p.c. for the 19 years to
1949. The rate was then lifted from
8 p.c. to 10 p.c. for the two following
years. It dropped to 9 p.c. in 1952, when
the balance-of-payments crisis and other
troubles gave trade generally a jolt. But
the corrective process was neither painful
nor prolonged, and 10 p.c. was paid again
in 1953, and a 2} p.c. bonus was added in
1954, making 12} p.c. for the year.
Balance-sheet figures reflect brisker trad-
ing and a healthy financial structure:
1952. 1953. 1954*
Paid capital .. £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Reserves .. .. 397,007 417,197 451,932
Overdraft .. .. 226,908 96,490 117,725
Creditors .. 99,571 99,524 88,917
Tax provision .. 59,996 64,080 82,529
Final div. , .. 27,500 33,000 41,250
£1,360,982 £1,260,291 £1,332,353
Freehold and plant 557,230 548,490 552,090
Stocks .. .. 572,700 492,779 543,236
Book debts .. 226,065 213,958 232,032
Cash, etc. .. 4,987 5,064 4,995
£1,360,982 £1,260,291 £1,332,353
Last term £50,457 was added to stocks,


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Oiy
osuijjvaa
■o. PTj-mD.
'''fees
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
or illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
_ , Agents for
Bapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
2?*. of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
“Please send a ’plane...
with instructions how to fly”
r. ha rtfs ritchie was a man who knew what
he wanted. When he was directing the con-
struction of the first pipeline in Persia, 1911*
he decided that a ’plane would be useful for
field survey work.
Without more ado he wrote home, ‘Please
send me the best machine available —and
don’t forget to enclose instructions on how to
fly-* This was only eighteen months after
Bleriot had flown the English Channel, and
the nearest that Ritchie had been to an aircraft
was as a spectator at an air display!
The ’plane, a Bleriot monoplane with 50 h.p.
Gnome rotary engine, duly arrived, flew . . .
and crashed. Obviously the instructions were
inadequate! But the event nevertheless
marked the beginning of a new era, and the
beginning of fruitful association between
BP and flying.
Since then BP Aviation Service has come a
long way. Today, geared to keep pace with
future developments and demands, it is ready
at all times to provide aviation fuels speedily
and efficiently.
SERVICE^
X. AVIATION
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of The British Petroleum
Company, Limited.
2/54
£18,074 to book-debts and £3600
net to fixed assets. The net
growth in the'outside debts was
only" £10,628. The more-or-less
liquid surplus (£449,842) was
£31,135 stronger.
Since the close of accounts
trade has remained buoyant, and
a p.c. interim div. is to be
paid on the old shares, the price
of which advanced from 235. 6d.
to 48s. over the last couple of
years. Allowing for the interim
div., brokerage and bonus-issue,
the net price at 48s. is 345. 6d.,
at which figure the return would
be 5.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover (including the
bonus-shares) is 325.
Australian General Insurance
SHAREHOLDERS in this 41-
year-old Sydney-controlled
fire, marine and accident office,
whose activities are confined to
the Commonwealth, are reaping
the benefits of the board’s sound
policy of keeping the div.
moderate during the early years
and building up reserves. No
bonus-scrip has been issued to
date, but the div. was lifted from
10 p.c. in 1947 to 12 p.c. and
then p.c. in 1949, and has
remained steady since, and looks
like continuing to do so for some
time.
The policy has been to keep
the annual distribution at or
about the level of the net return
from investments, which
exceeded last term’s dividend
charge by £2042. Such a policy
leaves the underwriting surplus,
or most of it, available to swell
investments and the return
therefrom, thus ensuring a high
overall net return on capital
alone,' and, at intervals, lifts in
the div. as well as other benefits.
Those on the register, who put
up an extra 3s. a share in 1949,
welcomed a call for a further ss.
a share in March, 1954, thus lift-
ing paid capital to £150,000 in
200,000 £1 shares paid to 15s.
each. The market, which is pre-
pared to wait for its benefits,
prices the scrip at 48s. 6d., cum
1 Id. final div., as against 425. Bd.
a year ago. At 475. 7d. the
return is 4 p.c. on a 12| p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks
for 5.3 p.c. on his money counts
on a 17 p.c. distribution, or other
benefits. Net tangible cover is
575., of which 19s. 6d. is repre-
sented by the reserve for
unexpired risks.
Net premium income has more
than quadrupled since 1946, the
loss rate has been moderate, and
a firm hold has been kept upon
controllable outgoings. Last
term the co.’s net premium
income increased by £48,681:
Loss Exes.
Net Pre- Ratio, Ratio,
Dec., miums, Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
’4B £169,310 £78,056 £66,781 46.0 39.4
’49.. 198,774 87,077 85,485 43.8 43.0
’50.. 236,870 110,394 95,292 46.6 40.2
’51.. 349,304 164,200 137,823 47.0 39.4
’62.. 409,330 202,394 164,413 49.4 40.1
’53.. 426,400 212,154 181,172 49.7 42.5
’54.. 475,081 236,837 194,044 49.8 40.8
Claims ran away with an extra
2s. p.c., a moderate growth con-
sidering the extent to which
insurance cos. generally were
involved on account of earth-
tremors and crop losses in South
Australia. A pleasing feature
is that the bigger business was
written at 345. p.c. less cost.
The gross underwriting surplus
was £11,126 stronger at £44,200,
of which £20,000 (up £9000) was
added to the reserve for
unexpired risks, raising it to
£195,000, equal to 41 p.c. on the
year’s net premiums, which is
more than is usually considered
adequate for the purpose.
The net undertaking surplus
was thus £24,200 (up £2126),
which, with the net return from
investments (£19,229, up £5101),
made the total amount available
for distribution £43,429 (up
£7227). That was equal to
28.9 p.c. on capital, of which
16.1 p.c. was in respect of under-
writing and 12.8 p.c. investments.
Policyholders and share-
holders are well protected, and
assets are known to be well
worth their book-value:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital.. .. £lOO,OOO £150,000
Reserves .. .. 374,073 420,316
Liabilities .. .. 193,688 204,696
Tax reserve .. .. 39,600 49,000
Final div 6,250 9,375
£713,611 £833,387
Freeholds .. .. 28,379 28,353
Mortgages .. .. 22,155 21,850
Debentures* .. .. 28,500 29,250
Shares other cos. .. 153,735 187,826
Government securities 404,741 507,309
Book debts .. .. 47,703 35,543
Cash, etc 28,398 23,266
£718,611 £833,387
* Includes fixed deposits.
The £50,000 of fresh capital,
together with surplus earnings,
etc., went into Government
securities (up £102,568) and
shareholdings (up £34,091).
These items account for 60.9 p.c.
and 22.5 p.c. respectively of total
assets, and the movements augur
well for the return from
investments.
New Guinea Gold Fields
This co., which in 1929 set
out to do things in a big way on
the auriferous-bearing lodes and
alluvials of the then little-known
Edie Creek field, New Guinea,
has been a disappointment to
shareholders. As early as 1935
it was decided to jettison no less
than £3,354,149 (15s. per £1
share) of the paid capital. Then,
in 1941, £167,712 (9d. a share)
was returned in cash, reducing
the figure to £950,371 in
f.-p. shares of 4s. 3d. each, and
there it has remained since.
Up to the time of the Jap
invasion in 1942 the co. had
paid £671,429 in dividends.
After the war rehabilitation was
slow and expensive, due to
causes beyond the board’s con-
trol. For the seven years to
September 30, 1954, profits
aggregating £136,392 net were
claimed; but expenditure on
plant and development called
for most of it, and more besides.
With major expenditure on
capital account out of the way,
the board was able to accumu-
late £91,877 in cash and bullion
at the close of last accounts, and
a 3d. div. (£55,904, or 5.8 p.c.
on capital) was paid in
January this year. Of last term’s
£32,712 (down £4661) of profit,
£14,592 (down £10,120) came
from mining and £18,120 (up
£5459) from milling and sale of
timber, etc.
The slip in mining profit
was due to smaller returns from
the Karanga joint workings, fol-
lowing storm damage to the
water-races and open-cut, etc.,
and to a sharp fall in gold-
premium receipts (£1066, down
£12,550). The mill at the Golden
Ridges treated 40,036 tons (up
8306) tons ore, averaging
0.3930 z. fine gold. Total pro-
duction was 12,8700 z. fine gold
and 16,1030 z. silver, part of
which was on account of plant
clean-up.
Operations for the current
term are expected to result in a
better financial picture, thanks
partly to the subsidy payable to
producers under the Gold-
mining Industry Assistance Act,
1954, partly to a lift in the Aus-
tralian official price of gold from
£l5 9s. lOd. to £l5 12s. 6d. per
fine ounce, partly to “somewhat
more favorable” conditions at
the Karanga joint workings, and
partly to the improved position
in the mining section.
After making various adjust-
ments, the subsidy payable
under the Act to a large gold-
producer is three-quarters of the
amount by which the cost of
production per fine ounce
exceeds £13.5, or £2 per fine
ounce, whichever is the
lesser. Excluding depreciation
(£31,842), which the board says
is inadequate and proposes to
adjust during the current year,
the co.’s mining and realisation
costs were equal to £17.5 per
fine ounce of gold produced
last term.
The market prices the shares
at Is. 10d., thus valuing the
undertaking at £409,964, or
£911,705 less than its net book-
value at September 30, 1954.
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie
G.M.K. is on the way to
becoming one of the biggest pro-
ducers on the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile (W.A.). It now has a paid
capital of £768,437 in f.-p. 10s.
shares, of which 30 p.c. is owned
by Western Mining Corp. For
the year to March 31, 1954, the
co. netted £184,265 (up £19,939)
and paid a 15 p.c. div.
(£115,266). Ore reserves were
put at 585,000 tons, averaging
6.4dwt.
In 1952 the co. bought the
leases, plant and stores of
Paringa, a next-door neighbor,
for £85,000. Since the close of
last accounts it has bought all
the issued- capital of two other
neighbors, South Kalgurli Con-
solidated and Boulder Persever-
ance, and .went to the bank to
finance the deals.
To reduce the overdraft, en-
large mill- and power-plants and
meet the cost of reorganising
the amalgamated properties,
those on the register at Febru-
ary 26 are to be offered one new
10s. share at a premium of
2s. 6d. for each share then held.
Payment is required Is. on appli-
cation, ss. in June and 6s. 6d. in
October, 1955. The issue, which
has been underwritten, will raise
paid capital to £1,536,875 in f.-p-
10s. shares, on which 15 p.c.
will call for £46,266 more profit
than was earned by G.M.K.
alone last term. When earnings
get the full benefit of the com-
bined output, and the economies
expected to result therefrom, the
board thinks it should be pos-
sible to increase the rate of divi-
dend.
The market recently priced the
scrip at 16s. 7d. After exercis-
ing the rights, etc., the net cost
would be 14s. Bd., thus giving
the rights a theoretical value of
2s. 2d., and they might become
available for less,
The offer to Perseverance
(paid capital £5224,820 in t.-p-
-4s. shares) was 11s. (Aust.)
cash per share, or an exchange
of f.-p. shares on the basis of
65 G.M.K. for 100 Perseverance.
Perseverance owns 65 p.c. of the
£275,000 of paid capital in
Kalgoorlie Enterprise, m which
G.M.K., by further direct pur-
chase of shares, holds a 90 p.c.
interest. For South Kalgurli
Consolidated (paid capital
£562,502 in f.-p. ss. shares) the
offer was 16s. 3d. (Aust.) a share
cash, or a one-for-one exchange
of scrip.
At March 31, 1953, ora
reserves were Perseverance
337,000 tons, averaging 4.9dwt.,
Kalgoorlie Enterprise 274,000
tons, averaging 6.2dwt., and
South Kalgurli Consolidated
205,400 tons proved, averaging
5.06dwt., 131,400 tons probable,
averaging s.o4dwt. In due course
it is proposed to place all three
cos. in liquidation, and transfer
their leases and other assets to
G.M.K. Combined current out-
put of G.M.K. and the other
three is about 38,000 tons ore
per four-weekly period, or
475,000 tons for a 50-week year.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
At St. John’s, Toorak, Wanda Mary,
only child of Dr. and Mrs. J. E. Shilliday,
of Box Hill, was married to Kenneth
Bruce, eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. S. F.
Nelson, of Newtown, Geelong. The
bride wore a gown of ivory French-
slipper-satin which featured a modified
H-line. The bodice had a wide V-neck-
line, the skirt a front-panel embroidered
with pearls and crystals. The long train
fell from a large bustle-bow caught at
the hips, and the long tulle veil was held
with sprigs of orange-blossom. The
“something borrowed” was a diamond
pendant of Mrs. H. A. Jackson’s, and the
bouquet was of white roses and clethra.
The bridesmaids, Frances Summons
and Helen Van Senden, wore full-length
frocks of white French-silk-organza over
which were scattered tiny opales.cent
daisies, and which featured finely pleated
bertha-collars, fitted bodices and bouffant
skirts. Throat-bands, ending in streamers
at the back, and head-bands also, were
of apple-green velvet; the crescent-shaped
bouquets were of gardenias. Tiny posies
of gardenias were carried by flower-girls
Sue and Gail Johnston, who wore long
white silk-organza frocks made with
frilled necklines; they also wore apple-
green velvet head-bands. Dr. David
O’Sullivan was best man, and grooms-
man was Boyce Paterson.
Nearly 200 guests were received at
Ripponlea, the lovely Elsternwick home
of Mrs. T. G. Jones, an old family friend
of Dr. and Mrs. Shilliday.
☆ ☆ ☆
St. Joseph’s Church, Malvern, was
decorated with white and gold flowers
for the marriage of Margot Anne, elder
daughter of Cr. and Mrs. F. G. Hardy,
of Brighton, with Dr. John Robert
Officer, elder son of Dr. Doris Officer,
of Toorak, and the late Mr. Ernest
Officer, formerly of Deniliquin (N.S.W.).
Margot’s gown of white organdie em-
broidered with trails of white velvet lilac
had a portrait-neckline, long sleeves and
a bouffant skirt. Her fingertip veil fell
from a satin cap, and she carried a
bouquet of tuberoses. Jenny Foard, Sue
Hardy (the bride’s sister) and Jane
Mahon ’maided in ballerina frocks of
white organdie appliqued with tiny satin
leaves at the hemline, and with scalloped
tulle insets finished with pleated organdie
frills. Their matching caps of organdie
were shaped into Tudor bonnets, and
they carried hydrangeas and trails of ivy-
leaves. There were 200 guests at the
reception held in the Venetian 'Court on
the Australia:
☆ ☆ ☆
Third of the week’s lovely brides was
Ann Harding Sullivan, who came from
England to marry David Hughes at a
fully-choral service in St. Paul’s
Cathedral. She wore a lovely ballerina
frock of pure white lace made to her
own design on the Dior H-line. The
long, slender bodice reached to below the
hips, where it flared out into an extremely
full skirt. The neckline was high, the
sleeves long and fitted to the wrist. A
tiny crown of the stiffened lace had a
short tulle veil attached to it, and she
carried a bouquet of crimson roses.
Ann is the youngest daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. L. Sullivan, of Hounslow,
London; the bridegroom, who is appear-
ing in the Tivoli’s “Colored Rhapsody,”
is the youngest son of Mrs. S. Hughes, of
Birmingham, England, and of the late
Mr. D. H. Hughes.
Audrey Cooke was bridesmaid, and
her frock was of organza in several
shades of pastel-blue. Michael Bentine,
an English comedian, also in the Tivoli
show, gave the bride away, and Gordon
Humphries, another member of the cast,
was best man. After the ceremony there
was a reception at the Savoy-Plaza.
Among the guests were Mr. David N.
Martin, Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Cooper,
several of the English Test-team (includ-
ing the Bedser twins) and many of the
’groom’s fellow-Thespians.
☆ ☆ ☆
Premiere of “Time Out for Ginger”
(which stars American actor Melvyn
Douglas) at the Princess Theatre was a
gala-night. The Governor, Lady Brooks
and their daughter, Mrs. Robin Byrne,
were in the audience, and women present
had worn their most beautiful gowns for
the occasion. Lady Brooks wore a filmy
gown of white French-organza over palest
pink, with the bodice softly draped, and
with shoulder-drapes forming tiny
sleeves.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s Pierre Balmain
frock was ballerina-length and was of
heavy black faille. The bodice was cut
wide to the shoulders, and at the back of
the waist was a spray of diamente flowers
to match her earrings. The full skirt of
wide pleats had an inset back-panel, beau-
tifully embroidered in silver. Black and
white faille was worn by Mrs. Keith
Fairlie; Gladys Moncrieff wore white
brocade with silver sequins outlining the
pattern on the bodice.
Other notable gowns worn included
Mrs. James McGauran’s short, bouffant
mist-blue satin frock, with its heavily
embroidered strapless bodice; Mrs. P. L.
Coleman’s coral-pink pleated chiffon,
with pearl-embroidered top; Mrs. R.
Spraggett’s full-skirted gown of French-
grey organza, highlighted with wide, cir-
cular stripes of bright gold; Mrs. L. R.
Buxton’s black-faille frock, short and
featuring the H-line and worn with a
colorfully embroidered black-lace stole;
Mrs. A. G. Silk’s mist-grey short satin
frock, with all-over pattern of pear-
shaped teardrop pearls ; Mrs. Earl Daum’s
beautifully cut black Chantilly-lace gown ;
Mrs. Maurice Nathan’s ensemble, a short
white guipure-lace frock worn under a
voluminous pastel-pink satin coat; and
Irene Mitchell’s sweeping gown of garnet-
red satin.
Judy Barraclough, lovely Sydney
model, wears here a copy of a calot made
by Vernier of London for the Duchess
of Kent. Of rich, black velvet, it has a
wide white feather-bow across the back,
with the ends coming forward to give
the effect of white tips over the ears.
This design was a special favorite of the
Duchess of Kent, who had it copied in
several different materials.
The lovely hats brought over from
Sydney in the Anne Collins collection
show the | definite trend towards the
smaller, softer, feminine lines. The newer
line is more fitting on the head, is wider
at the sides, and shows thfe hair in front.
There are soft drapings on many of the
styles and these sweep down always to
the right side, to rest against the cheek.
This season’s materials are soft and
pliable; jerseys and velvets for day-wear,
while satin and sateen-plush make charm-
ing hats for cocktail- and theatre-wear.
Jersey is used for the softly draped cloche,
and sometimes it is seen stitched to make
a soft casual hat with a novel snood
attached which completely covers the
hair.
In this collection Dior-blue was
featured. This is a very bright blue with
an undertone of parma-violet. Other
popular colors were the reds, ranging in
tones from salmon- and ochre-pink to
deep-burgundy; newest of all shades
are garnet-copper and baby-tangerine.
Mainly the brown shades are in a delicate
champagne tone. Dior, who insists on
large hats for winter, was represented by
a large, wide-brimmed hat, with a slightly
undulating brim and made of soft white
angora, lined with black French-plush.
Among the hats made by Vernier of
London for the Duchess of Kent was a
shallow cloche in cream satin-melusine,
moulded into an off-the-face turban and
finished with jewelled pins at one side. An
outstanding cocktail-hat by Jacques Fath
was made in heavy lilac silk, and was
draped to the back to form two chignons
and finished on each side with matching
moonstone brooches. Vernier’s white-
satin jewelled pillbox was entrancing.
The crown was heavily encrusted with
pearls and diamente jewels, with the tiny
band made of beige plush, which finished
in a snappy bow at the centre-front.
SYDNEY
The National Opera of Australia
opened its fifth season during the week,
with the lively “Die Fledermaus” on
Tuesday, followed by “Rigoletto” on
Thursday. On each occasion, in spite of
rain, the Palladium Theatre was bright
with flowers and neon-lights and the
atmosphere was a happy one, with a
touch of satisfaction of something worth
while having been achieved in spite of
difficulties.
As about 200 of the audience went on
to Princes’ for a champagne-supper and
dance after “Die Fledermaus” there was
some glamorous dressing to be seen.
Mrs. C. T. Lorenz wore ice-blue brocade
brought from Italy by her husband on
his recent trip abroad. Among opera-
goers at one or other of the performances
were Mrs. John Bovill and Mrs. John
Thompson, of Cassilis, Mr. and Mrs.
Marcel Dekyvere, Mr. and Mrs. David
Klippel, Mr. and Mrs. John McDowell,
Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Pelly, Mr. Noel
Pelly, Mrs. K. Tomlinson and Miss
Hilary Tomlinson, Mrs. M. J. Fountain
and Miss Adrienne Fountain.
☆ ☆ ☆
Canadians hit Sydney in a big way
during the week. First there were Mr.
C. Jefferson, Mr. G. W. G. McConachie
and Mr. H, B. Main, all here because of
the plans of Canadian-Pacific Airlines to
establish an air-route to Europe from
Australia via Canada and the Arctic
regions. Canada’s Commercial Counsel-
lor in Australia, Mr. C. Croft, and Mrs.
Croft arranged a reception at their Eliza-
beth Bay home ; as with all Croft parties,
it was a very happy affair. The city’s
Canadian community was present in
force; and Sydney was well represented
—the Bench, the Bar, the University, the
professions, the public service, banking,
commerce and transport, all with their
wives or daughters. The guests spread
out over the lawn facing the harbor,
which was pleasant indeed at the end
of one of Sydney’s sultriest weeks on
record. It also enabled Skipper, the
Crofts’ wire-haired terrier, to help
entertain the guests.
On Saturday H.M.C.S. Ontario arrived
on a training cruise, and a number of
parties followed, including receptions on
board the cruiser. It is the Canadian
vessel’s third visit to Australia. (A
Sydney-Canadian has worked it out that
Ontario usually arrives in Australia when
it is winter in Canada. Possibly a bit
like our Navy and the Melbourne Cup.)
☆ ☆ ☆
The most popular current “look” in
the fashion-world is “the ladylike look,”
and Grace Kelly (first seen in the film
“High Noon”) is its model. In view of
this, and as the designer will probably
have run out of letters of the alphabet,
may we expect the next “line” from
Monsieur Dior to be called “the North
Shore line”?
☆ ☆ ☆
There was inter-State interest in the
marriage of Diana Macgillicuddy, elder
daughter of the late Colonel P. E. Mac-
gillicuddy, of Melbourne, and Mrs. P. E.
Macgillicuddy, of Mosman, to Cedric
Cullen, elder son of Mr. and Mrs.
George Cullen, of Wollstonecraft.
Among the 120 guests at the reception,
held at Linden, Cremorne, there were
many visitors from Melbourne (including
Mrs. George Trost, aunt of the bride),
and also from Adelaide and from
various country districts in N.S.W.
The bride wore white Chantilly lace
over bouffant tulle, with a three-tiered
veil flowing from a tiny, pearl-embroid-
ered hat. Her bridesmaids, who wore
pale-gold silk-marquisette over taffeta,
with velvet sashes and little straw hats
all in the same toning, were her sister
Vivienne and her cousin Deidre Lewis.
They carried frangipani. The marriage
was celebrated at the Church of the
Blessed Sacrament, Clifton Gardens,
which was decorated with flame-colored
gladioli. Best man was John Macken
and groomsman Jack Mcßae.
☆ ☆ ☆
Four beautiful bridesmaids attended
lovely young Helen Grieve at her wedding
to David Joseland at All Saints’, Wool-
lahra, during the week. The bride, who
will be remembered as the schoolgirl star
of the Australian film “The Overlanders,” -
is the elder daughter of Dr. H. R. R.
Grieve, of Earlwood, and Mrs. Plelen
Grieve, of Cronulla. She wore a strap-
less dress of white silk-taffeta with a full,
finely pleated skirt and a deep Puritan-
collar covering her shoulders, and carried
long-stemmed cream roses. Her brides-
maids were her sister Rosslyn, Judy
Crossing, Julia McFarlane and Peggy
Weekes; their dresses were of white
nylon with dusty-pink sashes and coronets
of flowers on their hair. The bridegroom
is the only son of the late Mr. and Mrs.
John Joseland, of Canberra. Reception
was at the Australia Hotel.
* ☆ ☆
Was it a dream, or did this conversa-
tion actually take place at the Society of
Sculptors Exhibition? “Do you see that
cloud over there that’s almost in the
shape of a camel?” “Yes, it is like a
camel, indeed.” *7 think it is like
a weasel.” “It is backed like a weasel.”
“Or like a whale?” “Very like a whale.”
Well, if it did not .take place there it
could have.
This exhibition was opened with a de-
lightful speech by the Consul-General for
Greece, Mr. D. N. Lambros, and the
opening was attended by many members
of the Diplomatic Corps and their wives.
Mr. Lambros said that Australia could
become the promised land for sculpture
on a large scale, with its wide spaces
crying out for the mark of man in the
form of monuments, and added that
Australia had, in the words of Epstein,
“the impetus that carves mountains.”
Jennifer Davidson, daughter of Canon
and Mrs. E. J. Davidson, of Bellevue
Hill, topped this year’s University
Honors-list in English and won a Uni-
versity medal with her 14,000-word
thesis on “Styles of Speech.” Her father,
Canon Davidson, has been appointed
Bishop Elect of Gippsland. Photo by
Hugh Spencer.
Overseas news of social interest to
Australians includes the surprise wedding
of Diane Cilento, actress-daughter of
Brisbane’s Sir Raphael and Lady Cilento.
Her husband is the Italian writer Andre
Wolpi, and they were married at the
Kensington Registry Office, London, last
Saturday. They have known one another
for about two years, and both intend
to continue with their careers. Diane has
been very successful in her London stage-
performances, and is at present filming
“The Woman For Joe” at Pinewood.
☆ ☆ ☆
Two points of view produced, this con-
versation in the tram about the humid,
rainy weather: “The only things you
can get out of this weather are headaches
and mildew.” “Oh, I don’t know. What
about green grass and mushrooms?”
Another remark overheard (outside a
department-store this time) —rather a sad
one, though the lady who said it was
jolly enough; “Oh, look at that mat,
Only 495. lid.! Now if we only had a
house! ”
☆ ☆ ☆
“Darkness at Noon,” the strong anti-
Communist drama at the Independent
Theatre, drew a full house for its open-
ing during the week in the presence of
the Governor, Sir John Northcott. Mr.
and Mrs. Langker welcomed the guests,
who included Dr. and Mrs. H. C.
Coombs ; the Mayor of North Sydney,
Alderman Brothers, with Miss Brothers;
Mr. J. O. Cramer, Federal member for
North Sydney; Mr. A. Landa, Prices
Minister; Dr. Hess, German Minister to
Australia, with Mrs. Hess; and Mr.
Hugh Hunt, new director of the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust Fund. The play,
produced by Miss Doris Fitton, gives an
interesting example of skilful stagecraft
by which 23 changes of scene are effected
quite convincingly and without loss of
time.


HOME FOR SALE, MOSMAN
T ar ° n g a Zoo single-storey family home in beautiful setting.
i bedrooms, 2 ultra-modern bathrooms, ultra-modern kitchen and
laundry, H.W.S., lounge, diningroom, study, 2 spacious verandahs,
double garage in perfect condition, very handy tram and ferry.
£12,500.
CONTACT OWNER, BX 5717-XM 1998
Position Vacant
Employment Offered in Sheep-
skin Store, Sydney
TO young man desirous of learning
business in City. Job will be thoroughly
taught. A suitable applicant may consider
a buyers’ job awaits him. Apply in first
instance to—
No. 242, C/o “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DUDLEY WILLIAM SWANSBRA late
of Terrigal—TAKE NOTICE that AMY
ISOBEL SWANSBRA has filed a Petition
for Divorce in Suit No. 4608 of 1954 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards.
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by the 6th May
1905 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from TAPERELL &
PETERSEN, Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ANTOINE LOUIS BARBE GALLAND
late of 18 Bream Street Coogee. —TAKE
NOTICE that ANNE BENSON GALLAND
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4898
of 1953 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause and excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 29th April 1955 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from F. 0. SINCLAIR, Solicitor, of 2b
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO AUDREY JONES late of Maroubra.
—TAKE NOTICE that WILLIAM FRANK
AUBIN JONES has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4194 of 1954 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 13th day
of May 1955, and obtain a copy of the
Petition free of charge from JOHN D.
NORTON, Solicitor, 393 George Street,
Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Have you tried
.ALBANY ?
The cigarette
CLAIRE BLOOM
would offer you..
Who says cigarettes don’t have personality?
Not Albany smokers! They will tell you that Albany
have a subtle difference which sets them apart. It’s
not idle chance which leads that well-known person-
mm
I®§
m
AS FULL OP CHARACTER AS THE PEOPLE WHO SMOKE THEM
ality, Claire Bloom, to
smoke—and to offer
—these mild and
flavourful
cigarettes.
CORK OR
FILTER
TIPPED
F. L. Smith Ltd., Burlington
Gardens, Old Bond Street*
London, W.I.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
National Opera
Through four seasons the
N. S. Wales National Opera has
held to its intention of putting
opera on a permanent basis in
the Ma State, and, with its fifth
season in Sydney at the
Palladium, it looks as if it has
reached artistic maturity.
This was clear from the pro-
duction of Johann Strauss’s
opera or, more strictly,
operetta “Die Fledermaus.”
Rhythmically piquant and
melodiously rich, with a text by
Haffner which makes full use of
comic situations flowing from
the marital peccadilloes of the
gay Baron von Eisenstein, its
successful presentation depends
largely oil the spontaneity of
the comedy element, in which
the company proved surpris-
ingly strong.
One of the big surprises was
Allan Ferris, who threw him-
self into the role of the Baron
with great verve and brought to
it a first-rate sense of comedy-
timing—previously he has been
been only in “straight” parts. As
Alfred, the siriging-teacher-lover
of the Baroness, Robert
O’Donnell gave a capital per-
formance. There was attrac-
tive impertinence in Betty
Prentice’s Adele, the maid who
might or might not be her
master’s mistress, and she used
her coloratura with sound
judgment.
Tais Taras, dainty and
appealing, sang • the role of the
Baroness with freshness and
charm, except in the few
instances where she went to the
full height of her lyric soprano,
which, in that region, still has
too metallic an edge. Frank
Lisle, as drunken jailer Frosch,
Geoffrey Chard, as jail gover-
nor, and Neil Easton, as Notary
Falke, helped to keep the pot
bubbling.
Warwick Braithwaite, the new
musical director, has worked
wonders with the chorus and the
orchestra. The former sang
with discipline and strength, and
the latter produced a richness
of tone in strings and wood-
winds that certainly wasn’t
there last season.
The dressing, from the circle,
looked opulent, and the settings
were ingeniously contrived to
fit the too-small stage. Choreo-
graphy for the ballet was by
Beth Dean.
“Rigoletto,” the second offer-
ing> got off to rather a slow
start, though that was atoned
for in the latter stages of the
first scene by some powerful
singing (and cursing) by bass
Douglas Parnell, as the arrested
Count Monterone. ‘iMid the
Fair Throng” wasn’t sung by
Raymond Macdonald 'with
sufficient carefree gaiety, but
later he sang “Woman Is
Fickle” and took up his con-
siderable burden in the quartet
with ringing conviction.
The Gilda of the piece, Linda
Parker, used a lyric soprano
which, on this occasion, seemed
to lack the flexibility to
cope with the baroque ornamen-
tation of the “Dearest Name”
aria; also she declined the
highest note in favor of an
alternative lower one, as she did
in the climax to the quartet.
But her voice has quality and
is easily produced, and her
duets both with the Duke and
Rigoletto were successful.
As the Duke’s jester, Alan
Light brought a savage bitter-
ness into his singing of the “Vile
Race of Courtiers” and some
powerful tragedy into the final
scene. There was nq justifica-
tion, however, for his overdark
make-up in the first act. Rigo-
letto was an Italian, not a
Burmese. Justine Rettick sang
the brief music allotted to
Maddelena beautifully.
Decor cut away from tradi-
tion in the scene outside Rigo-
letto’s house, and in the assassin
Sparafile’s dwelling—here again
the producer was compelled to
compromise with the exigencies
of space.
The chorus excelled itself in
the scene in which they tell the
Duke how they kidnapped
Gilda, and the orchestra (with
exceptionally good work by the
few brasses) lent to the score the
necessary dark shadows.
“Simon and Laura”
In this vastly amusing skit on
British TV, playing at Melbourne
Comedy, Simon and Laura
are an acting-pair who are dis-
closed in their living-room in
London in the thick of a matri-
monial brawl. Simon has been
out with another woman, and
Laura is packing and going back
to Mother.
Mr. Wolfstein, their agent,
turns up in a state of pecuniary
exaltation with a TV man,
having landed a contract to
present Laura and Simon to the
British nation as the perfect
example of marital bliss, con-
nubial felicity, philoprogenitive-
ness and all the other domestic
virtues. As they have no
children and haven’t the slightest
intention of having any, Mr.
Wolfstein has thoughtfully
brought Timothy, a sanctimoni-
ous little pest, to be adopted.
Being desperately hard-up,
Simon and Laura consent to
postpone the dissolution of their
marriage until they have pro-
vided the British nation with 250
episodes in nightly sessions
drawn from their ideal home-
life, and the TV gang move into
their apartments with all their
paraphernalia. The splurge
of sentimentality starts under
the glare of a hundred klieg-
lamps and a battery of micro-
phones. While the drama of
matrimonial bliss is being un-
folded before the eyes of a de-
lighted nation the TV man
effects a fresh triangular relation
with Laura, and Simon goes off
for the weekend to a French
watering-place with the script-
writer.
None of these deviations
from the ideal intrudes upon the
TV screen until one evening
Laura lets her real feelings go
and gives the British nation a
taste of her real quality as an
actress.
But at this point the play-
wright, Alan Melville, loses his
grip on reality, and occupies his
last act with a belated attempt
to make Laura and Simon con-
form to the very idea of them-
selves they have given to the
nation. It would have been a
wittier play if he hadn’t.
Googie Withers is a charming
actress with a vivid smile, swift
in action, and John McCallum is
a capable foil and an admirable
producer. The others are all
good, especially Collins Hilton,
that old Gregan McMahon
stalwart, who makes a superb
butler.
“Time Out for Ginger”
This, by Ronald Alexander at
Melbourne Princess, takes place
in the American living-room of
the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Carroll. Mr. Carroll, who is a
banker, has just been shooting
his mouth at a school-confer-
ence, his thesis being that
children should have absolute
freedom to do what they like —
girls should be girls and boys
should be boys and neither
should should try to be like the
other.
It is sound enough in theory,
but found not to be so sound in
practice when Ginger, Mr.
Carroll’s favorite and youngest
daughter, decides that what she
likes is playing football with the
boys and works herself into the
position of halfiback in the
school team. She becomes a
national heroine and “Life”
prints her photo on its cover
with, inside, a photo of her
father, in defiance of his own
logic, running up and down the
sidelines cheering -on his
daughter.
Despite her success, however,
Ginger is broken-hearted because
the boys do what they like by
insisting on treating her like a
girl and even kicking her goals
for her. In the upshot she gives
up her high endeavor and her
football, capitulates to a gawky
youth and becomes his adoring
girl-friend.
This profound theme is
meticulously worked out in three
acts and four scenes by Melvyn
Douglas—who performed the
piece for three years in New
York —June Clyne, and Joy
Mitchell, a local product, who is
Ginger. Mr: Douglas is an
accomplished actor and pulls out
all the stops in the organ of
American sentimentality. That
realistic actor, George Pravda,
is ill-cast in a play of this sort.
As bank-president he is as much
at his ease as a fish on a jetty.
Rodin, who loved life as well
as line.
It reminds one of seeing in a
garden in Rome, where every
five yards or so there dreams in
bronze or marble some master-
piece that has lasted for cen-
turies, a piece of wire-sculpture
(very like the “constructions” of
Robert Klippel in this exhibi-
tion) which could not withstand
one push from a child’s hoop
and which, moreover, obviously
lacked the solid and patient
craftsmanship that could make
people want to preserve it for
centuries.
It is because they have both
life and craftsmanship that the
pieces which linger most appeal-
ingly in the mind from the three
galleries are two or three tiny
bits of realistic sculpture in
sandstone included by Anton
Murre along with his nicely-
colored goose-necks and his
garish painted stones. “Dance,”
“Women Looking at the Sky”
and “Girl” have a sort of fetch-
ing clumsiness about them which
may be partly stylisation for
design, but which also conveys
a feeling of youth, naivety and
witty observation.
As well as his squat-headed
children, John Olsen at the
Macquarie Galleries paints
chunky masses and planes of
color after the manner of
Cdzanne, out of which emerge
landscapes and kitchen-stoves;
and keeping company with him
is Eugene Barany, who does
Paris in a bright, shallow,
vacuum-cleaned style, remi-
niscent of commercial-art with a
touch of Dufy.
Some lively sketches for ballet-
costfimes by Elaine Haxton are
exhibited with the sculptures at
David Jones’, and in the Little
Gallery at that address are some
very fine early Rupert Bunnys,
recently picked-up in Paris and
much firmer than the pink fuzz
of the later pastels of which we
see so much.
In the Town Hall at Hunter’s
Hill, Sydney, there is an exhibi-
tion of paintings loaned from
private collections, with 400
paintings by the local school-
children.
Artbursts
Squareheads
Stylisation in art has a long
history, is perfectly legitimate
and may give very pleasing
results; but when that is admit-
ted the current crop of art in
Sydney, with Lyndon Dadswell
and Wendy Soiling showing
square-cut heads in aluminium
at David Jones’, John Olsen
doing squat-headed children at
the Macquarie Galleries and
Anton Murre rediscovering the
goose-necked ladies of Modi-
gliani at the Bissietta Gallery,
has a strange effect of monotony.
Why do they all do it?
Because there are possibilities in
stylisation. Because it is the
fashion.
Is it a useful fashion?
Partly. Dadswell’s frieze
might serve as well as any other
to decorate a public building;
it might well seem more alive,
in its angular movement, than
something tritely realistic. If
G. F. Lewers (it is the Society
of Sculptors at David Jones’)
likes to make his whales and
bird-forms into more-or-less
abstract lines floating in space,
they still float with pleasant
curves.
But it is difficult, somehow, to
imagine that all these styfisa-
tions, however lively in their
period, will be treasured with
the masterpieces of Donatello
or, not to go too far back into
the past, those of the mighty
Talkies
“New Faces” (Plaza): Despite
its ancient plot, this musical is
geared to some freshly presented
songandance and sketches. It
gains mostly from two excellent
skits by Paul Lynde —one on
“Death of a Salesman,” the other
on exploration in Central Africa
—and the singing of Eartha Kitt,
a negress with the litheness of
a leopard.


Lazy Walkabout
by PETER BLADEN
—■lllustrations by UNK WHITE
"Finding,” as he himself has
put it, “new delights in familiar
things,” Peter Bladen, on his way
from Perth to Adelaide per push-
bike and other means, has visited
and described the main gold-
fields’ centres around Coolgardie
and Kalgoorlie, and is now head-
ing south towards Norseman
and thereabouts.
KALGOORLIE TO
NORSEMAN (continued)
ON the outskirts of Cool-
gardie there is a large
signboard giving mile-
ages, and I learned that
I was still 1381 miles, by a road
more direct than the one I
intended to follow, from my
destination, Adelaide.
The scrub and the bushes were
denser than on the road from
Kalgoorlie, and there were com-
paratively good grass patches
and water-pools by the road.
Then, nine miles out came the
end of the bitumen. I began to
realise how bad were the
corrugations when the constaiit
jarring made my ribs ache. I
was sore for several days
afterwards.
There were many snakes on
the road, which, on closer inspec-
tion, turned out to be strips of
tyre-rubber, or salmon-gum
streamers, or roots breaking
through the gravel surface. My
wheels started grating and I
thought: “How rattled can you
get?”
The waterpipe to Norseman is
mainly covered with earth. As
on the pipeline to Kalgoorlie,
there are emergency-taps at
regular intervals. Recently a
parched hitch-hiker, trying to
get a drink at a tap which had
been sealed-off, managed to lever
out the plug, and was knocked
out when the water gushed with
tremendous force. By the road
near Spargoville there is the
lonely grave of a man who died
of thirst in the days before the
pipeline was laid down.
These were the roads first
plodded by camel-teams and
drays bringing stores from the
south for Coolgardie.
Spargo consists of half a
dozen scattered dwellings. I
went looking for water and
called at the smallest hut, where
I an old prospector. He
said Spargo was going down.
There was still a lot of dirt
around, but not much gold. The
mine had closed-down, and the
gold was petering-out in his
alluvial “show.” Minerals,
columbite, bauxite and beryl,
were still being mined. Before
I left he presented me with
bunches of grapes as fine as any
I have seen, grown on the cool
vines alongside his hut, delicious
lady-fingers and small sweet
sultanas.
At No. 2 G.F. Pumping
Station there were a dozen tents,
and a wooden wall where work
was in progress. One of the
tents was inscribed with the
intriguing name “StarveU.”
Shortly afterwards, I passed a
muddy dam near the road, and
met some lads who had been
swimming in it. They said they
also “swam” in the salt-lake,
though usually the water came
only up to their ankles.
We walked together to the top
of the hill, and were soon look-
ing down on Widgiemooltha, a
settlement of biscuit-colored,
iron-roofed weatherboard build-
ings planted among the trees.
Widgiemooltha (originally
Widgcamooltja, “the black
crow’s beak”) was the native
name for Lake Lefroy. It is
difficult to know how to spell the
name, as the hotel-sign, the
railway-shed and the
maps give it variously
as Widge e mo 11 ha,
Widgemooltha and
Widgiemooltha. It is a
small place with only
the one hotel, a store
and garage, a post-
office, the railway-camp
and a few dwellings. At
the store there is a fine
collection of hubcaps
lost by passing cars.
Most of the inhabitants were
in the bar. It was five-o’clock
on Sunday, and the bar had been
open all day. When I went to
bed at 11 it was still open.
Everybody was very happy,
so I was constantly told. An
accordion was indulging in
cacophony in the adjoining
room, and a woman with
straggling ringlets and a faraway
glazed expression was singing in
a wavering voice rather senti-
mental ditties.
A chap with one foot on the
bar-counter, and one on the
floor, balancing precariously,
repeated: “It’s the ’appiest place
on earth. Everyone’s ’appy!
Just one big ’appy family!” I
was drawn into the family on the
spot.
A man with a florid face was
bent on telling me some “good
old bush ballads,” and though
some of the verses he remem-
bered about “The Great Wiluna
Mine” might bear repetition, I’m
afraid that is only so in selected
company. I was told: “She’s a
wild town this —you’re out in the
jungle now!”
Some New Australians from
the railway-gang were playing
darts; well-worn jokes were
being bandied about concerning
the “bodgies” of “Widgie” ; and
there was a remarkable amount
of clowning. Someone said the
barman was itching for a fight,
and asked would I accommodate
him!
They said I must see the salt-
lakes. The salt was 98 per cent,
pure, and 4000 tons a year was
obtained merely by skimming
the surface.
It was rather like being flung
from a tranquilly-drifting row-
boat into a whirlpool, and I was
later thankful to seek refuge in
the bathroom. Wallowing in the
bath, I pitied the pioneers, those
thirsty, dusty travellers, with
merely a tumbler of water in
which to wash; and I was
amazed at the color of the bath-
water when I had finished, and
even more amazed at my own
color when I looked in the
mirror. My arms, neck, ears and
nose looked as though I had had
a love-affair with a beetroot.
After tea I watched the
youngsters rolling the empty
beer-barrels over to the siding,
and joined in the fun in the
parlor. Two men from the
railway-gang played Italian airs
on the piano with one finger, and
I played Scotch tunes, also with
one finger. An argumentative
chap said: “I’m inclined to cop
you under the listener!” for no
reason that I could discover; and
around us the party continued in
full swing.
There was only one room
available for guests, apparently.
Some time after I had gone to
bed I found that I was to have a
room-mate. A cheery old fellow
staggered in and introduced him-
self, by the light of a match,
since the lights had been turned
off, as “Old Pat.”
He had a red face, and two
fluffs of white hair tumbling
from the sides of his shining
scalp. He said he had been a
prospector, and had been with
Larkin when Larkinville was
founded.
I believe he had also been with
James Larcombe, a lad of 17,
when he discovered the “Golden
Eagle,” a magnificent nugget of
781 b., the largest ever found in
the State. I can remember when
I was at school in Perth the
nugget was brought round on a
trolley for all the children to
see.
Old Pat thought that one day
he would find the mother-reef
where the Golden Eagle had
nested. He took a long while
getting into bed, rambling on
about how to “dolly,” and
follow the color ; and, of course,
he was “as full as a boot.”
He warned me that his snoring
would probably keep me awake.
But he forgot to mention his
sleep - walking. At some
unearthly hour I awoke to hear
strange mutterings and rather
distressing noises in the darkness.
There was a struggle going on,
and when I tried to see what was
happening, I found that the
dressing-table was heaving and
lurching in a most alarming
manner.
Old Pat had wedged himself
behind it, in the fireplace, and
had got stuck, and was trying to
get out again.
Then he started to crawl across
the floor, and I wondered
whether he was dreaming that
he was prospecting again. He
rolled himself up in his sheet,
like a wandering Arab, and fell
asleep on the floor.
Later still, he tried to find his
way back to his bed, and kept
calling out that he was lost, and
asking for a match. As I
couldn’t find one, I guided him
by telling him which way to turn,
and finally, with a mighty crash,
he landed back in his bed.
Old Pat was up fairly early,
“to catch the Goods,” he said.
While dressing, he glanced
behind the dressing-table, and
murmured: “It rained a bit dur-
ing the night!” And, sure
enough, there was a large pool
in the fireplace . . .
Widgiemooltha was a different
place on the morning after. As
I left this Home of Surpassing
Hangovers no dew was spangled
on the fence-wires, and I found
no mist in the hollows, and the
sun wasn’t breaking through into
a world made new and sparkling.
It was already warm, and I
think I had a hangover myself.
There were turn-offs to Ive’s
Find and Lister’s Gold Mine
Paris, beautiful views of the lake
framed between salmon-gums,
with flats winding over to the
blue waters, and quartz outcrops
by the road.
I was later given a lift in a
utility, and was thankful, since
there was little to be seen. The
names marked on the map belong
to settlements removed from the
road and, in some cases, from the
face of the earth. Higginsville
and Wilgarnie and
Pioneer (the native
Wincharnia, “a good
place for wild fruit”).
We sped onwards to
Norseman.
About nine miles
from the town we
passed the Native
Mission, where later I
paid my second visit to
a mission-station.
The mission - truck
goes to Norseman each
day to take in eggs for
sale, and to transport the
older children to school. I
was taken out on the truck in
the morning, and as the rain
came, it was suggested that I
should stay the night, to save
myself a drenching, and I was
made comfortable in the guest-
room. The roads became
treacherous and sloppy. We
later heard that the main street
of Norseman had been 18in.
under water.
There are about 40 children at
the mission, ranging from baby-
hood to the early twenties. They
are boarded there by their
families, or left by parents who
don’t want them, and some are
taken from parents who won't
care for them. They include full-
bloods, half-castes and quarter-
castes. The Government allows
a small subsidy, which is
supplemented by child-endaw-
ment, donations and the proceeds
from the sale of farm-
products.
The buildings are
neat but unpretentious.
There is a school for
the younger children,
and there are dormi-
tories, the dining-room,
and a large workshop,
store-rooms and bath-
rooms and a couple of
cottages. Seesaws and
swings and sandpits
keep the little ones
happy.
The mission is set in beautiful
surroundings in hilly country,
well-timbered, with wide views
reminiscent of the country in the
Darling Ranges. Vegetable-
gardens and fowlyards on the
American pattern, and herds of
goats keep their attendants busy.
Mr. Felton, the missionary,
and the rest of the staff, are fine
and friendly people. They have
a thousand jobs to do, and a big
programme ahead of them. They
apologised because many of their
projects are still only dreams,
and the more important
essentials of daily life must be
put first. But when there is true
kindness of heart, dreams can
wait, and have chance of a richer
fulfilment.
Despite his endless tasks, my
new friend had time to take me
on a tour of inspection, and to
chat a while; he would pause
for a moment in passing for a
Rugby-tackle with one of the
lads, or to stuff his pockets with
apples to hand around, or to pick
up a child who had stumbled.
When the rain eased, after
school, the boys played baseball
with the missionary’s front
doormat for home-base.
A native couple came in, dur-
ing the afternoon, to leave two
of their children for schooling.
The little boy was just on seven,
and had never been separated
froip his mother. As soon as he
lost sight of her, he would run
after her and cling to her, and
she would scold him gently,
telling him to be a man.
His fears of an institution
proved to be groundless, and
also the nightmare of a bed in a
dormitory filled with strangers.
The Feltons invited both children
to their cottage for tea, and later
the little chap spent the night
there, with four new white
brothers and sisters for company.
When I last saw him, he was
fondling the mission dog, and all
thought of tears had long been
forgotten.
There are many problems to
face at the mission. Unlike the
natives near the city, these people
are not yet detribalised, and the
tribes still hold their corroborees,


and many age-old traditions.
The headache of how to make
the mission self-supporting is a
constant one, and also the
problem of finding suitable work
for the young people when they
leave, so that they will not drift
back to the harsh and purpose-
less life of the bush.
There are too few workers at
the mission, but there are good
friends to assist them. One man
supplies 900 day-old chickens
every year, and frequent bags
of apples. Others send cases of
grapes and similar gifts.
After tea I went with Mr.
Felton to put the young boys to
bed. There were baths to
contend with, and a football
which couldn’t control itself in
the dormitory. For a while I was
left alone with the youngsters,
and they held little secret con-
versations about me, but finally
must have agreed that I wouldn’t
bite them, and they grouped
about me on one of the beds
and chatted. One little fellow,
who had lost three fingers in a
chaffcutter, fell asleep on my
lap.
When their guardian returned
they had a short prayer. Their
own prayers are quaint; one of
them, I believe, prays for “some
of the other blokes, and Harry’s
mob” ; and they were given a
good-night story and an apple
each. I placed my little chap in
his cot, still soundly sleeping.
The older children had an
“evening” at one of the cottages,
with hymns, and lantern-slides,
cordials to drink and much
happy laughter and chatting. On
summer evenings a few couples
court on the lawns out front, and
one young lover sits at the phone
by the hour, dreaming away in
monosyllables.
I was told that I would need
to stay at the mission for several
months to learn all there was to
know about it, and I could
scarcely have minded doing so,
it was such a happy family.
NORSEMAN
A BOUT 1890 Mr. Moir, of
■l*- Fanny’s Cove on the south
coast, while looking for new
pastoral country, discovered
specks of alluvial gold near the
present site of Norseman.
A prospecting party, equipped
two years later, failed to find
any payable gold, but other
prospectors were attracted to the
district, and late in 1892 Mawson
and Kirkpatrick applied for a
reward-claim for a find named
the May Bell, at Dundas.
The rich strikes at Coolgardie
diverted attention for a while,
but in 1894 the Norseman
’fields were discovered, 14 miles
north of Dundas. The five
founders were Sinclair, Allsop,
Ramsay, Talbot and Goodliffe,
who made two separate applica-
tions for reward-claims. Ramsay,
Talbot and Goodliffe named
their find the Mt. Barker.
Sinclair and Allsop named theirs
the Norseman.
Larry Sinclair was a Norse-
man, born in the Shetland
Islands in 1854. He came to
Western Australia as a boy of
nine with his parents, and in
1874 was working for the
Dempster brothers, pioneer
pastoralists at Esperance. Later
he did a certain amount of
prospecting, and after an unsuc-
cessful visit to Coolgardie
joined his brother and Jack
Allsop, out from Dundas. In-
vestigating a ridge he discovered
the rich reef now known as the
Norseman.
At the time, he was riding his
horse, a big light-bay gelding,
which, when a long-legged foal
at Esperance, had been named
Norseman by Sinclair’s sister,
after the family’s ancestry, and
Sinclair gave the name to the
locality, though «to this day the
residents cannot be sure whether
their town was named after a
Shetlander or a horse. The
native name for the site was
Worinburna (“plenty of green
bush”).
Norseman and his master were
both high-spirited and colorful
personalities. It is said that the
horse never took kindly to the
harness, perhaps feeling it an
insult after his moment of glory.
Of Sinclair it is told that once,
while out after Cape Barren
geese on the islands at Esper-
ance, he was delayed by bad
weather for several days, and
posted as missing. One
sympathiser visited his mother
to console her. The old lady was
not at all perturbed: “Acb,
mon,” she said, “there’s hardly
enough water around here to
drown a Shetlander!”
Sinclair and Allsop sold out
to an Adelaide company for
£6OOO, and neither was ever
particularly well off; but the
new goldfield prospered.
Norseman was the richer find,
but the warden’s office and the
business-centre had been estab-
lished at Dundas, and the first
years at Norseman were filled
with hardship. Often the early
residents must have wondered
whether there was to be or not
to be a mail, since it was a cycle-
mail, pioneered by a man named
Hamlett. It was 14 miles to
Dundas, for stores, or
a drink and a game of
quoits at the hotel.
Everyone made the trip
on Sundays. Old-timers
recall that the first meat
to be delivered was
almost as tough as the
pioneers.
Water was always a
problem, it was carted
from Theatre Rocks,
just across the Causeway
towards the present
mission-site, Buldania,
14miles east, McPherson
Rocks (Nookania,
“where the gum-trees
look like smoke”),
Binarinia (“where an
orphan child was
found,’’ 18 miles to the north),
and other rockholes. Later, con-
densers were in operation along
Lake Cowan, and an early news-
paper advertised water at 2d. per
drink, or Is. per gallon.
They were hard times for men
with horses or camel-teams. The
mines used water from the
lakes, which corroded the
machinery. Once a visiting
chemist analysed a sample of
the water and found that it con-
tained 320 z. of salt to the gallon,
said to be a chemical impossi-
bility. Later a dam was built,
but the Mundaring Scheme water
did not reach Norseman until
1936.
Those were the days of
pilgrimages with tin-cans of
water, of box-furniture, and
makeshift homes in shacks and
tents. The roads were either
raw material for dust-clouds, or
quaking quagmires. But the
cheerful atmosphere of comrade-
ship triumphed over all.
There were frequent picnics
to Trig Hill and Cherry Island,
with cavalcades of drays making
long trails of dust and laughter
through the bush, sports-meet-
ings, concerts and surprise-
parties, picnic-meals and stories
around the campfires.
Once, when a “beautiful
thunderstorm” broke, all the men
stripped, and lathered, prepar-
ing for a much-needed bath, but
the rain stopped as quickly as
it had started, and “left them
all standing like pillars of salt
and nearly as stiff” when the
soap had dried. History records
that the men with the hairy
chests came off second-best.
The first “jail” was a post, to
which prisoners were tied. Once
a prisoner managed to shin high
enough up the post to escape,
and joined the local policeman
for a few drinks, but the police-
sergeant chanced upon the scene,
and*the policeman promptly re-
arrested the offender for
“breaking jail.”
By 1895 Norseman had its
own town-site surveyed, and
gradually the settlement
expanded. By the end of the
century, 58 mines were in opera-
tion there. The Princess Royal
was developing in a big way,
reaching its peak early in the
new century, with a population
on the spot of 1000, with three
hotels, two halls, a billiard-
room, half a dozen shops and
four football-teams; while there
were over 2000 people in Norse-
man itself.
The first telegraph-message
was sent in 1896, with- a beer-
case for a stand, but the follow-
ing year the new post-office was
erected, still the finest building
in the town. About the same
time Cobb and Co v began a
regular coach-service.
Metalled roads were soon laid
down, two newspapers were
established, and hotels and banks
were built. The old Coach
House was reputed to have been
the scene of three murders, and
to have at least two ghosts, and
it is also said that there was a
sizeable cellar under the old
buildings, with good accom-
modation for spirits of any kind.
Cobb and Co. spared no
expense in upholding their
reputation, and the paired horses,
the “Blacks,” the “Creams,” and
the “Greys,” were justly famous,
often £6O and more being paid
for a suitable match. They were
fast-striding animals, noted for
their speed and stamina, and not
even the Glue Pot, and such
notorious bogs, could long delay
their schedule.
Cabbage-tree Ned, a well-
coach-driver, was in this
district for some time, still wear-
ing his cabbage-tree hat.
Calamity Jane was one of the
most highly-spirited of the
horses ; it is said that no harness
could hold her when she wasn’t
in the mood.
There was often special excite-
ment at the arrival of the mail-
coaches. A State law forbade the
solemnisation of marriages after
6 p.m., and the mail-coach
arrived at 6.30. Many brides
travelled down on the coach,
and would be met by their
prospective ’grooms at the far
side of the lake, to be whisked
into town at a fast gallop, leav-
ing their wedding-garments and
bouquets in the coach, and the
minister would be waiting at the
church, to complete the necessary
rites before the clock struck.
Chaff was expensive in those
days. One man saved four of
his horses by feeding them on
damper when feed was scarce.
They would come trotting up for
their daily ration at the beating
of a tin-pan. Storm, Union and
Velvet were well-known animals,
and Biddy, champion of the
Esperance mail-run, Neena
Moochla, bought from an
Afghan driver (the name mean-
ing “My darling”), and Violet,
the only candidate in the local
Tradesmen’s Trot to pull a ton
in a cart after completing the
preliminary walk, trot and
canter.
Racing was popular, and fine
animals would be brought in
from Frazer’s Range and Balla-
donia, while others would leave
the shafts of local vans for the
day, in order to compete. Miners
would gamble on anything. Old
Paddy Rooney is even said to
have challenged a mate, when he
was on his death-bed, “to fly
him for a drink when they were
both angels.”
Horses were certainly Kings of
the Road; but one man on the
’field preferred bullocks. It is
said that the man, Bill Baker,
decided to train a team of
bullocks for scrub-rolling. The
only beasts available were
advanced in years and lacking in
discipline. They were “as wild
as hawks,” but he kept consoling
himself: “If I do get them in,
won’t they pull!”
When four, more tractable
than the rest, had condescended
to pull a small log along for
short intervals without going
berserk, he announced that he
would one day harness the whole
team to a dray.
After various clashes with
other traffic in trial runs, in
which the countryside was
littered with bottles and stores,
through horse-teams panicking
at the spectacle, the great day
arrived, and, encouraged by their
master’s whip and language, the
bullocks promptly tied them-
selves in knots, bellowed into the
dust, or struggled with their legs
in the air, and choked in their
harness.
Undaunted, he persevered,
until the day when he drove the
team into town for all and sundry
to see. The townsfolk toasted
him in the bar—and when the
toasting was done he set off to
rescue the team from the middle
of a salt-lake.
Later he fitted the bullocks
with bells, which seemed to
increase their spirit, and in the
resulting stampede tracks were
cleared through the bush for miles.
His neighbors stuck to horses.
The heyday of the horse is
over. He was a noble and
faithful servant, and though we
may admire the engines and
planes which have taken his
place, our admiration lacks the
affection with which the pioneers
regarded their King of the
Road . . .
Norseman had long wanted a
railway, and frequent “Railway
Indignation Meetings” were
held, marked by fiery speeches
and retirements to the hotels
for inspiration.
Forrest (then Sir John) once
visited the town to examine the
position. The roads were very
rough, and Sir John got the idea
that the ride was being made
rougher than necessary to
impress him with the need for a
railway. When he made his
speech he was red with heat and
annoyance, and told the towns-
folk that they were mistaken if
they thought they could help
their cause by trying to shake
him to pieces.
Even the magnificent banquet
arranged, with its Saddle of
Mutton and Sucking Pig, Larks
a la Ripon, and Nectarines of
Foi Gras a la Belle, failed to
pacify him; and the railway
wasn’t put through until many
years later.
Mining declined gradually,
with the rich surface-reefs
worked-out and developmental
costs rising, and during the
First World War there was a
severe labor-shortage. By 1920
the population of Norseman had
fallen to 300.
Then a local syndicate was
formed to search for the con-
tinuation of the reef, and in
1926 the Butterfly Mining
Company commenced opera-
tions. The old Mararoa mine,
first worked by a New Zealand
syndicate, had many ups and
downs, but finally came to life
again as the Phoenix in 1932, with
large-scale operations begun a
few years later under a new
company.
Steady, long-term policies
rather than spectacular results
are now giving brighter hope,
and the pyrites deposits at the
Iron King mine have brought
new prosperity. Government
assistance for farming to the
south has indirectly benefited
the town ; and it is the jumping-
off point for all road-traffic
going east over the Eyre high-
way. Everyone kept telling me
what a “solid” town Norseman
is now.
There are two hotels in the
town today, as good as any you
will find in the country areas. I
stayed in a room with hot- and
cold-water laid on, carpets, and
even a wardrobe that not only
closed, but locked. In the bath-
room was a notice: “This water
is pumped 450 miles for your
convenience. Be sure taps are
off before leaving bathroom.
Thank you.”
In the bar, I met Big Bob, who
introduced me to his friends,
and later to many other friends.
There was a lot of laughter, and
there were plenty of pleasantries,
but I was a little scared. I had
heard of, but never seen, men
who could empty a large pot of
beer at one gulp, and now I
watched Big Bob
constantly raising a
pot and emptying it
down his throat
without the flicker
of an eyelid. His
throat seemed almost
as insatiable as the
Kalgoorlie pipeline.
Big Bob worked
on one of the mines,
and when he had
lifted and drained a
few more pots,. he
insisted on taking me
home, to introduce
me to “the little
lady,” his widowed
mother; so we
squeezed into his car,
and it was a squeeze,
because it was a very small
car, and with the size of
Big Bob, and my knees, there
was no room at all. We drove
through street after street of
asbestos-walled homes, all look-
ing much the same, but with neat
gardens, and, if all were like “the
o Continued on next page)


Go6dj
Mixer
Rib
WITH
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
Brandy Crusta (For the Cocktail Hour)
Moisten rim of glass with lemon juice and dip in
castor sugar ; line inside of glass with peel of £
fresh lemon thinly cut in spiral fashion. Place
tablespoon of fine cracked ice in mixing glass, add:
1 teaspoon Maraschino
3 teaspoons Curacao (white or orange)
A dash of Angostura bitters
1 teaspoon lemon juice
2 ozs. of Chateau Tanunda Brandy
Stir well and pour into the prepared glass (4
and add £ slice orange.
L-o-n-g Brandy {Serve in 6-7 oz. glass)
1 or 2 ozs. of Chateau Tanunda Brandy,
cubes of ice, 1 oz. lime or lemon
cordial; fill with soda-water or
water —or 1 or 2 ozs. Chateau
Tanunda Brandy, cubes of ice;
fill with Dry Ginger Ale.
“Good brandy is a healthy drink**
CHATEAU TANUNDA
The Brandy of Distinction
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY. AGENTS
* Write for free Brochure with selected recipes by famous Bartender.
AUTANUH
BRANDY
little lady’s” home, very com-
fortable inside. '
The streets seemed to stretch
for miles, flanked with the neat
homes and borders of salmon-
gums. J was surprised at the
extent of the township. In many
backyards there are underground
rooms, marked with mounds and
air-vents, rather like air-raid
shelters, where miners still sleep
during the day, when working
night-shift, because they are cool
and quiet.
I made many friends. Looking
back, I can say that it is the
friendliest town in which I have
stayed. It is fairly quiet now,
and the people are genuine. Like
Kalgoorlie, it has become a
“married-men’s town.”
“Once,” one of my new friends
told me, “it was gay. There
was something on every night, a
boxing-booth in the square, or
dances. But everyone was
dependent on his neighbors then
for entertainment. Now the
excitement has gone and there’s
nothing at all —except the
pictures three times a week and
booze! ”
“You will find three classes of
people,” one of the ladies told
me. “The business people,
they’re the upper-class; and the
white-collar boys from the mines,
the foremen and the winch :
drivers; and the underground
men.”
Their homes follow suit.
There are beautiful homes, with
gardens and all amenities; and
streets of almost identical
cottages; and there are the
inevitable “chambers” —clusters
of cheap rooms, with dirty walls,
looking as though someone with
muddy boots had been walking
sideways, where young chaps at
a low ebb live from pay to pay,
befuddling their leisure with
beer, and with few possessions
except a single worn suit, and
perhaps a greasy frying-pan in
the bottom of the wardrobe.
One of the first friends I made
was the policeman. I have never
been very fond of policemen, but
in a place like Norseman I was
to find that a policeman could be
a good friend. And Sgt.
Anderson is an unusual police-
man. I believe he is strict, and
having heard of him, I was a
little awed, but his smile was
friendly, and touched with quiet
humor.
He has a difficult job, in a town
which is the springboard for
many inter-State criminals wish-
ing to escape detection, by avoid-
ing the railways and airways.
But he is a dreamer. And often
his thoughts must wander far
afield from this mining-town,
and the eastern highway, to out-
back things and places which he
knows as well as any white man.
Many have read of his
exploits, in magazines and
papers, of the long quests he
has carried out, along and
through waterless deserts, rarely,
if ever before, penetrated, some-
times for weeks on end, after
truant natives, in the vast central
regions'of the State.
When I was at school my
imagination was stirred by the
story of Leichhardt the explorer,
and I used to imagine myself
one day a member of the party
which would solve the mystery
of his disappearance, the excite-
ment mixed strangely with a love
for a land that is huge and
frightening and secretive, and at
the same time filled with unusual
beauty. And now I met a man.
who had sought to solve the
mystery, and perhaps one day
would seek again, next time —
who knows? —with a chance of
success.
We pored over old maps, and
discussed rumors, and relics, and
hypotheses, the mysterious
“iron-box” reported by natives
a number of sleeps beyond the
seven waterholes known only to
a handful of wandering
aborigines.
I walked back to the hotel,
dreaming myself, of Leichhardt,
lost and hopeless, with the
Southern Cross above, and the
heavens, as powerless to reach
down a helping hand as we are
across the bridge of time.
ESPERANCE
You are free to sit
And free to think -
Free to pay for what you drink ;
Free to stay an hour or so,
And when uneasy, free to go.
—From a sign in an Esperance
bar.
THE hotel manager, on his
way down to Esperance for
the weekend, offered to take me
with him, as my own vehicle
was out of action, and in need
of a spot of welding, after the
battle with the corrugations.
The moon having risen soon
after our departure, the road to
Esperance, 126 miles of it, was
another world of the headlamps,
with dark trees in silhouette and
leaves floating from the spindling
branches, like clouds.
We stopped once, at Grass
Patch, to visit the publican.
There were three men at a table
in the bar. One of them wanted
to bet £1 that X was a sailor. He
insisted on shouting me a whisky-
and-soda, the first I had ever
tasted. The night was cold and
the drink was warming.
Misty rain was falling as we
approached our destination.
Esperance was a holiday-place
to the natives. They would come
down thin and miserable from
the parched interior, to Gabi-
Kyley (legend says it was their
name for the spot —“where the
water sit down like boomerang”),
and return after their vacation,
sleek and fat. To their white
brothers, the goldfields’ folk and
the farmers, it is also a favbrite
holiday-place.
It was good to be back by the
sea again. We had booked-in at
a hotel, and going to my room I
hastened to fling up the window,
thrusting aside the curtains to
let in the night air, and woke up
a chap sleeping just outside on
the balcony. It wasn’t a bad
pub, but I was glad to escape
from the artificial atmosphere
of society people on vacation,
the post-mortems on last night’s
bridge-party, and the plans for
fishing-trips by launch, “My
dear, at 5.30 a.m.!”
The population of the town is
about 900, increasing “during
the season” to over
3000. In the morning,
I counted 200 of
them on the main
jetty, despite the
cold wind.
pishing is a
favorite local pas-
time. There were
white-bearded men
and housewives in
aprons, lovers hold-
ing hands as well as
fishing - lines, and
babies in prams,
people in a variety of
clothing or well wrapped up in
rugs, couples occupying very
little room at all, and middle-
aged people occupying large
areas, and even a minister of
religion. Many of them were
merely reflecting, but a few were
hauling in fish at a great pace.
It is a 16ng jetty. Tankers
berth there to discharge oil for
railing to Kalgoorlie. I watched
the gulls and the surging waves,
and got talking to a chap who
was taking up as much of the
jetty as anyone —Cyril, the post-
man, a pleasant chap with
humorous eyes, looking
extremely comfortable. He said
that he liked to dangle his legs,
even if he caught no fish, and
he told me about the bay.
This, no doubt, was the heart-
shaped bay mentioned by Eyre,
whose symbols must have been
more concerned with anatomy
than with native weapons.
Mississippi Bay—the original
Rossiter Bay where Eyre, at the
end of his epic journey across
the Bight, met and was hospitably
received by Rossiter, captain of
an American whaling-ship—is
further east.
The bay is locked by islands
and affords calm anchorage. It
is 15 miles across to the head-
land, or 25 miles round by the
beach.
Near at hand is the Fresh Air
League Camp, where every year
hundreds of children are brought
down for holidays from the
inland, to play in the seaweed
and wonder why the waters, with
their tumbling waves, don’t spill
over on to the land.
The old New Town jetty is
still standing. The jetty was
erected by the Hampton Plains
Company in 1894, to capture the
shipping trade, and a settlement
was commenced there, with a
rail-track connecting it with
Esperance, but the plan was a
failure and New Town’s monu-
ment is the decaying jetty.
Frenchman’s Peak, on the
headland, rises fairly sheer from
the sea, with a five-mile slope
at the far side, and a cave near
the summit, large enough to hold
a thousand people. The peak is
reminiscent of a French military
cap. Cape Legrand, reaching a
height of just over 1000 ft., was
named in honor of the officer on
the French ship Esperance, who
first discovered the harbor and
directed his ship into it.
The islands offshore —the sub-
merged peaks of ancient chains
of mountains —form part of an
archipelago of over 100 islands,
extending for 140 miles from
Figure of Eight to Christmas
Island. Some are heavily
timbered, with such animal-life
as the Mondrain rock-wallaby,
and the tammar, the first
member of the kangaroo family
to be described by a visiting
white-man (Pelsart, in 1629), and
many birds, including the
muttonbirds.
When Dempster had his cattle-
station here, in addition to 84,000
acres on the mainland, his run
included 20 islands, totalling
3000 acres. The sheep were
transported by cutter, to be left
on the islands for a year at a
time. Woody Island, Gull Island
and Charley Island afforded the
best pasture.
On some of the islands
snakes are plentiful. Figure of
Eight Island has its share.
Thomas Island was named after
a sealer who used to live there,
and Gull Island, if the story is
true, was once named Girl
Island, a place of punishment
for miscreant gins.
Once, it is said, four natives
charged with sheep-stealing were
confined on one of the islands,
and relieved their boredom by
staging a miniature tribal battle.
One was clubbed to death and
thrown into the sea. A second
feigned death and later slew the
remaining two members of the
party. Some contend that his
companions helped to relieve his
diet as well as his boredom. In
any case, he was the only
survivor, and the island is known
as Boxer Island in his memory.
At night, the Boulder Boys’
Band was playing old tunes, not
in ragtime, but ragged, and I
walked along the town jetty in
the darkness, feeling poetic,
which is the way one feels when
alone and not minding it.
The music faded away and the
lights of Esperance twinkled.
The wind was fresh, and I
listened to the waves. The stars
were tranquil, with shadowing
clouds fanning out to quench
their constellations. Ghosts
from the past haunted my
thoughts, for Esperance has had
a long history, as far as history
has concerned the Great South
Land.
Not all the ghosts were
impersonal, since my own grand-
father used to walk this jetty
with his shipmates in the early
days of this century.
Here in 1627 came the Guide
Zepaard (the Golden Sea Horse),
commanded by Pieter Nuyts,
accidentally making the first dis-
covery of our south
coast, which he fol-
lowed for 1000 miles
eastwards to the islands
of St. Francis and St.
Peter in South Aus-
tralia. Nuyts Land,
including the islands of
the archipelago,
appeared on the chart
of Hessel Gerritsz,
dated the following year.
The next visitor, 165
years later, was the
French Rear-Admiral D’Entre-
casteaux, with his ships
Recherche and Esperance,
searching for the ill - fated
La Perouse. Driven south by
storm winds, and seeking, his
ship, the Esperance, was the first
frigate to enter this harbor.
These and their successors
were the people whose memory
haunted my thoughts, the
navigators and whalers, explorers
and pastoralists, goldseekers,
and, more recently, the tourists.
Many people I knew were at
Esperance, for the Easter week-
end, including people from
Norseman, Widgiemooltha an
Kalgoorlie. Some of my friends,
among them George and Mabel,
were staying at the camping-
area and I joined them there.
Tourists from as far afield as


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £l/16/-
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
m
mm
m
ms
P.S
That’s pretty good advice, Mother.
Even youngsters know that Stamina clothes
are made stronger and better, look smarter
and last longer.
Bill knows that, when he gets his
Stamina slacks he will feel good in them ...
because they are made just as carefully as
Dad’s made to fit perfectly; made for
comfort from the finest pure-wool cloth in
Australia, and finely finished by Stamina’s
top-clasS craftsmen.
CLOTHES
ASK FOR | 9
OtCUlUflCl
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
FOR MEN AND YOUTHS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
T 7.113
Cairns say it is the best
camping-spot they have seen.
On fine nights I slept in the
sandhills under the stars, listen-
ing to the gentle sound of the
"wind and the waters, and the
faint stirrings in the camp, just
as many of the new arrivals had
slept in the early days.
At sunrise, on the jetty with
the fishermen, where some of
the younger people had slept
huddled all night, we would get
an eyeful of beauty, if nothing
else, gazing at the still waters,
and the islands, with spray rising
up in soft plumes in the distance,
the sleeping township, with here
and there a curl of smoke at a
chimney.
Towards evening I would walk
along rocky shelves awash,
beyond the grave of Tommy
Windich, collecting firewood on
the hillslopes. The grave is set
back from the sea in a grove of
small green trees in the sand-
hills close to Dempster’s Head.
I paused there sometimes and
gazed at the wash of the waves,
stormclouds over the islands
grey at the horizon, and the tides
of sand kept at bay from the
grave by white-picket railings.
The headstone, with black print
against a white background
beneath symbols of native
weapons, reads:
Erected by-
John and Alexander Forrest
in memory of
Tommy Windich
Born near Mt. Stirling; 1840
Died at Esperance Bay 1876
He was an aboriginal native of
Western Australia of great intelli-
gence and fidelity, who accompanied
them on exploring expeditions
into the interior of Australia, two of
which were from Perth to Adelaide.
Be ye also ready.
Someone said that Tommy
Windich is now buried at sea,
because the shoreline has
receded, and that in years to
come the headstone will have to
be moved to higher ground,
towards the slopes of Wireless
Hill. But tourists need feel no
lessening of romantic interest;
their footsteps will lead them
near enough to the graves of
many natives who died in an
epidemic of measles.
Moreover, if they consider
how many have lived in this
timeless land during the centuries
before the coming of the white-
man, and whose bones have
become part of the shifting
sands, they will realise that they
trespass over such sacred dust
almost every day of their lives;
and they and their generations
will one day be buried, in sands
as shifting, while in later times
men will trespass over their dust
with little sense of awe.
For how transient will be a
handful of generations compared
with these calm hills and the
slowly evolving islands, and the
tides of these waters that “sit
down like a boomerang”!
The waters would be trans-
lucent when I set out, turquoise
over the sand, and plush-velvet
over the reefs and the weed, and
when returning, the waters would
be dark, the lights of the town-
ship winking among the pines,
and the kitchen would be cosy,
with the fires burning to a white
ash.
The “younger fry” would
collect their gumnut-whistles,
essential equipment, it seems,
for an evening stroll, and we
would sit talking, while the
street-lamps shone through the
hearts of trees, like lights from
a dance-hall hung with streamers,
while the leaves themselves
seemed to dance, shimmering
like sequins, with Orion straddled
overhead, pausing to watch.
The wind would rise and tug
at the branches, or toss away
the lids of rubbish-bins, or
perhaps a friendly horse would
nudge the bins, looking for
scraps, as we settled down for
the night, murmuring: “Is that
the wind, or the bunyip? ”
The children at the camp used
to watch me writing. They
would gather, with their
treasures: a tin of fine silk from
the “duck plant,” or shells and
seaweed. One young chap told
his mother that I was a poet,
but she replied: “He couldn’t
be —he’s Mabel’s friend!”
Most men, as Thoreau said,
live lives of quiet desperation.
It was wonderful to be quiet,
and not desperate, and I was
feeling full of life. I wanted
to dig at elbow-depth for water
in the sandhills, as the explorers
had done, to find out what
made the Pink Lake pink, and
to walk to Four-mile Beach, and
Eleven-mile, to follow the car-
tracks over the sands at low-tide
towards Cape Legrand, and sit
alone on windy bluffs, to explore
away from the beaten track and
satisfy my wanderlust in the
manner of Leichhardt.
Although I haven’t
Leichhardt’s daredevil courage
or the foolhardiness to risk
death in strange deserts, and
doubt that my end wifi be a
mystery made poignant with con-
jectures concerning scraps of
canvas, shreds of clothing, a
strand of hair or a coin found in
some remote camping-spot, yet I
know in my wanderlust there is
a little of the spirit which com-
pelled Leichhardt to know more
of the timeless land, an island
alien to the older civilisations,
in its own true character and
beauty.
When Georee and Mabel had
gone stowing and straonins
, ’ , , . ~ ,j. 5
about the car tteir bedding and
camping-gear clothes and tent,
I set off exploring in my own
humble way, by climbing to the
top of Wireless Hill,
Wireless Hill rises like a huge
whale-hump above the green
slopes beyond the flats of the
town-site. I walked among
tangled bushes and the rough
leaves and golden cones of tiny
banksias, sheltered from the rain
in a rocky cave with a smoke-
blackened roof, and crossed the
low stone walls which proclaim
the catchment-area.
From the summit there is a
glorious view, of bays of islands
rising smoothly from the deep
blue of the sea, jutting arms of
rock dipping to the foaming
waves, and behind, the bare
charred sandhills swept by recent
fires, the streets of Esperance
lined with pines, their houses set
in the green belts of grass and
trees fringing the bay, the jetties
extending out, and the township,
undulating green hills, and lakes,
and roads winding away to a
distant horizon.
I could see the Pink Lake,
and it was amazingly salmon-
pink—the only pink lake in Aus-
tralia, the tourist is told —backed
by sandhills which could have
been snow-capped ranges.
Esperance is now a sleepy but
beautiful tourist-resort, where
grass runs riot about the fence-
posts, where doctors can obtain
only a bare living, and people
survive to ripe old ages (one
man I found still working in an
office was over 90).
Salt has been gathered from
the Pink Lake for 60 years, but
the industry hasn’t been
adequately developed. . One
report, submitted to Federal
Parliament, stated that the best
fishing-grounds prospected in the
whole of the Commonwealth
waters were between Esperance
and Eucla, and enough fish could
be obtained there to supply the
whole country. But the local
cannery has been closed for
some years.
The townsfolk say that the
Government, while the crying
need of Australia is for decentra-
lisation, has placed a strangle-
hold on Esperance and its many
sister-ports, which lack suitable
Government support and harbor
facilities. Old men sit in the sun
and dream of a future which
may yet unfold, while the tourists
come in their thousands content
merely to sit in the sun.
The vacation had been so
pleasant that I at last became
uneasy, for even a “walkabout”
has its serious aspects, and I was
beginning to feel afraid that I
wquld want to stay there for
ever, and that would have been
good, except that I have other
lives to live, and as I had found
myself free to sit and think, I
also found myself free to go.
{To be continued next week)
THE LEAF-HOPPER
Even now while I speak
(He said; and who was he
Who breathed in the green gum-
tree?)
The kookaburra’s beak
Gobbles my daintiest things;
So now is the time to try
Something most slender and sly
That has green leaves for wings.
Now let that clumsy thief
Swallow the tree if he can;
For, perfect in each fine vein,
Here is my applegum leaf
That tries one wary step
And suddenly lifts up
Its grasshopper head to hop
To shelters green and deep.
I do this for my art
(He said; and who was he
Who shook his leaf from the
tree?) :
When this is torn apart
By the ants no trick deceives,
It shall dry to the red-grey-brown
Of all the leaves fallen down
And still be a leaf with the
leaves.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


7 . V
. . "t-v V.
V ' ll ‘ • V-
* 4 •£ . ■•■ \L .
«'"V
-w
*
I?
ww
«c
* .
a
Vf
MOST JVEJF C4.R BUYERS AGREE
Holden is today’s finest value
Here’s the plain proof of Holden’s
extra value. During the first nine
months of 1954, official registrations
of Holden were more than three
times greater than those of any other
car model. There are so many
reasons for this Holden popularity.
Australia’s Own Car is the only car
that gives you this ideal combination:
• 6 cylinder performance at the
lowest price • 30 m.p.g. as reported
by owners • 6 passenger roominess
at the lowest price • Dependability
proven by more than 170,000 satisfied
owners • List prices from as low as
£B7O plus tax • High resale value.
And, in addition to these big-
value features, it’s good to know that
• Convenient GMAC hirepurchase
available.
anywhere in Australia you can rely
on being able to get low cost factory
guaranteed Holden parts and service.
With all these real benefits Holden
is to-day’s finest value —the car
you’ll want to see and drive first.
In view of the very heavy demand
for “ New-Look ” Holden Sedans may
we suggest that you place your order
as soon as possible.
HOLDEN*
Australia’s Own Car
LIST PRICES FROM £B7O
PLUS TAX '
# Registered trade mark
• Air Chief car radio is specially
designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
D.H.L.: Your liking for pork
pasties has been duly entered in our
records 8.L.: No originality in
poem about the beauty of the sunset.
....R.R.L.: Not even the line about
the monkeys at Taronga could tempt
us... .K.T.: The office Homer was
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
not nodding when that piece landed
on his dess J.P.L.: It is on its
way home H.P.: Not even the
neat ending could carry it through.
F.R.C.: It was bowled out
first ball S.T.: It may be
“rather beautiful,” but it is not for
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
G E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
HE HAS A
BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARBEBE
| No Pads —
I No Springs
The NBO-BAKREBE
acta like a hand
•when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
■with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
babkbri distribution CO.
(Dept. 3i), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Ha* all the fine*t feature*
cf high-priced Imported
machines at only a trac-
tion oi their cost. The
"National" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typinq. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built tntireiy in Ausiratlm bj
JACESON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LID.
SIDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—-
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Son» Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aoit.)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Young businesswoman, Sydney,
wants spacious room, little or no
furniture, pleasant outlook, with
ktichen, and, ideally, own bathroom.
—5994.
To buy copy of The Passage by
Vance Palmer. —6004.
Middle-aged gent., Sydney, wants
full board and lodging, light washing,
own room in private home in quiet
locality. Prefer suburb north side of
harbor handy to transport. —6000.
To dispose of bound volumes
(without weekly covers) of The
Bulletin for the following years,
1881 1883 to 1891, 1895 to 18-98. —
6001.
To buy, copy of The Pea Pickers
by Eve Langley. —6002.
Would like to correspond with
young Bulletin readers interested in
postcard- (views) collecting, swim-
ming and reading. (Reply direct to
William K. Y. Au, First Floor, 4
Pak Geze-lane, Hong Kong.)
Does Anybody Know?
■When and why were the colors-
green and gold—chosen for the
blazers worn by Australian sports-
men when abroad? —6003.
Information Sought
Am I correct in my belief that
“moneys held in Qhancery” are un-
claimed moneys belonging to the
estate of a deceased person which
are Held in trust by a department of
the British Government? Is it true
that millions of pounds are held ifi
Chancery ?
Your belief is substantially correct.
The Chancery was (and is) the Tord
High Chancellor’s office and he him-
self was the monarch’s adviser in
matters of conscience. He looked
after unclaimed moneys from d e_
ceased estates since trustees of such
moneys could not obtain a receipt
from anyone else and frequently
desired (and still desire) to be free
of the responsibility of safeguarding
them. The Lord High Chancellor,
as representing the Crown, was
regarded as entirely safe as a reposi-
tory of such moneys. Nowadays, the
Chancery is administered as one
branch of the High Court of Justice.
No information is available as to the
amount “held in Chancery,” but it
must be very large, and in individual
cases very substantial amounts may
be available upon proof of kinship
to long-dead testators.
* * * *
(2) Largest number of stands in one
woolshed in Queensland ? (2) Greatest
number of sheep shorn in any shed in
one season in any part of Australia ?
(1) Largest number was at Thurul-
goona, where 78 stands of shearing-
machinery were installed in 1891.
Bowen Downs had 70 stands installed
in the same year. These were not
the largest in Australia, as two sheds
in N. S. Wales, Burrawang and
Mahonga, had 88 stands each installed
in 1890. (2) A number of properties
in Queensland and N. S. Wales lay
claim to the record, but various
factors affect their claims. Some
properties shore in one shed while
others had two or three sheds on
the property. On the data available
no particular claim could be definitely
accepted as the record.
* * * *
Did old-time boxers pickle their
fists before fighting ? How was this
done, and what effect did it have?
Do present-day boxers pickle their
fists ?
Pickling boxers’ or fighters’ fists
was prevalent in bare-knuckle days,
when fighting men soaked their fists
in salt brine for hours before a fight
to make their hands less liable to
pain. Modem boxers seldom do this,
but they bandage their hands with
lint and adhesive tape (sometimes
almost a yard of adhesive tape) for
protection against injury.
* * * *
(2) What was the last first-class
match in which cricketer lan Craig
played? (2) How long will he be
unavailable for first-class cricket ?
(5) How has he been doing, if play-
ing, in grade-cricket this season ?
(I) and (2) For N.S.W.’s last Shield
match of the 1953-54 season, against
S.A., Craig, after a fairly poor run
of scores, was at first named as 12th-
man; on Morris’s having to with-
draw through eye-trouble Craig was
reinstated, and made 33 not-out in
N.S.W.’s first-innings 4-321 declared,
shortly afterwards he announced that
he would not be available again for
first-class cricket till the completion
of his university studies —two or three
years, he considered. (3) Craig has
been playing regularly with his
Sydney grade-club, Mosman, but his
performances have been only moder-
ate. His best scores have been 71
not-out (in the second round, against
St. George), two scores of 48 and a
25. At present he is in camp doing
Iris National Service training, but
Mosman hopes he will be available
for the semi-finals.
* .* * *
I have on a lease a block of land
from a neighbor for grazing and
cultivation at a rental of £1 a week.
The owner recently informed me that
he was going to increase the rent.
(1) Does the JV-S-fT. Landlord and
Tenants’ Act cover a lease of this
nature ? (2) Can the owner increase
the rent without applying to a court ?
(5) Can I be given notice to quit at
any time? (4) Can 1 be pUt off
before five years has elapsed?
(1) No. (2) He may under the
terms of the Agricultural Holdings
Act require you to agree to arbitra-
tion as to the rent payable, and if
you refuse he may give you a notice
to quit and eject you if the notice
complies with the Act. (3) You must
be given twelve months’ notice expir-
ing on the anniversary of the com-
mencement of the tenancy unless he
has required you to agree to arbri-
tration as to the rent (and you have
refused) or unless he can bring the
case within one of the other grounds
prescribed by the Act, On the infor-
mation available he does not seem to
be in a position to do so. (4) Yes —
unless your agreement is for a lease
of five years.
* * * *
(2) What Commonwealth Govern-
ment gave an option on Yampt
Sound (W.A.) iron ore to Japanese
interests ? (2) Did Japanese arrive to
commence operations? (3) What
Government cancelled the contract ?
(1) None. (2) No. During 1936-8
Brassert and Qo. obtained from the
Westralian Government an option to
work the Yampi Sound iron-ore
deposits. It was apparently then-
intention to export ore to Japan.
Two Labor Governments were con-
cerned in the negotiations—those of
P. Collier and J. C. Willcock. No
ore was actually shipped. (3) None,
but the Lyons Government put an
end to the project by banning the
export of iron-ore from July 1,. 1938.
The embargo was announced by Mr.
Lyons on May 19, 1938, and the
reason given was the necessity to con-
serve “Australia’s limited iron-ore
resources.”
* * * *
How to mend an old, leaking tank ?
Cover inside walls and bottom with
old wire-netting. Punch holes through
the iron so that the netting can be
held hard against the tank with tie-
wire tied through to the outside.
Then cover the inside with a rendering
of cement compo about thick
trowelled on. The mixture should be
about three parts washed sand and
one part cement. The surface should
either be trowelled smooth or rubbeu
reasonably smooth with a piece of
bag when the compo has dried
somewhat. Do the whole of the
rendering in one operation. Water
can be let into tank a few days after
job is finished.
Brief Answers
P.H.: (1) “Boundary-layer fences”
are used on swept- or delta-wing air-
craft to check the lateral flow of air
along the wing. By directing the air-
flow aft, better behavior of the air-
craft is obtained at or near the stall.
(2) The pressure ratio of a turbo-jet
is determined by dividing the delivery-
pressure of the compressor by the
inlet-pressure. (3) Information con-
cerning Napalm is restricted for
security reasons J.W.: Dr. C. H.
Souter, the South Australian poet,
died on August 20, 1944 H.M.D.:
Insulin for diabetes was introduced in
1922 by Dr. Banting (1891-1941) of
Canada... .R.J.C.: Mafeking Night
was on May 17, 1900, when the news
reached London that Mafeking had
been relieved after a seven-months
siege by the Boers E.F.8.:
Tutankhamen’s tomb was located near
Luxor, Egypt, by Lord Carnarvon
and Howard Carter in 1922
C.F.J.: Portable geiger-counters for
the detection of radioactive sub-
stances are available from the follow-
ing Sydney sources: Philips Electrical
Industries Pty., Ltd., 69 Clarence-
street, Sydney; R. B. M. Long Pty.,
Ltd., 201 a George-street, Sydney;
Watson Victor, Ltd., 9 Bligh-street,
Sydney; H. B. Selby and Co., 254 a
George-street, Sydney; Thomas
Optical and Scientific Co., 51 William-
street, Sydney; and Booth Equipment
Co., 187 Macquarie-street, Sydney.
... .G.E.K.: Write D. Raymond,
Numismatist, 128 Bathurst-street,
Sydney.. ..J.R.: Opium seized in
Australia by the Trade and Customs
Department is npt considered suitable
for the production of anaesthetics or
for practical use by medical authori-
ties, and is destroyed L.A.: Write
R. I. Rae, Secretary, Navy League of
Australia (N.S.W. Division), 83 Pitt-
street Sydney... .W.K.L.: From the
Royal Empire Society, 17 Bligh-
street, Sydney... .C.L.S.: The North-
cote Children’s Farm is at Bacchus
Marsh (Vic.). The secretary of the
trust administering the farm is H. J.
Dillon, c/o A. S. Bloomfield, 84
William-street, Melbourne.... A.E.:
Wnte Eric Porter Studios, 350 Bexley-
road, Bexley North (N.S:W.), and
Owen Bros. Animated Films pty.,
Ltd., 64 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
D.B.: You can take the trick
with the joker M. 8.: Write
Registrar-General’s Dept., Treasury-
gardens, Brisbane... .P.L.: The quo-
tation is from an essay “Of Atheism”
by Francis Bacon, and reads: “I
had rather believe all the fables in
the legends and the Talmud and the
Alcoran, than that this universal
frame is without a mind”
H.8.W.: The cartoon concerning
Selina Sangal referred to by Norman
Lindsay in his article on J. F. Archi-
bald (B. 2/2/’55) was titled “Wait-
ing! J. Calvin’s Two Pound of
Flesh” and appeared in The
Bulletin of October 25, 1902
8.J.L.: An article on Eric Lowe
appeared on “The Red Page” of The
Bulletin of December 30, 1936.
this adult journal... .W.R.: That
blizzard will not howl in our columns.
H.P.: Deposited in the asbestos
w.p.b. reserved for that type of bush-
fire poem W.M.H: It is no
poem, but Jack Read, who wiltes our
boxing notes, says that he is sorry
he did not see the fight... .A.C.C.R.:
Printing one stanza as a warning to
neglectful smokers:—
One lifetime’s effort —gone beyond recall.
A twisted wilderness.
And all this desolation all this
blackened waste,
Was started by one cigarette.
... .A.M.: If we had to find room
for all the poems we receive about
old racehorses we would need a
paddock as big as Sydney and its
suburbs F.E.8.: Sorry, but we
do not aeprint verse that has appeared
elsewhere, not even from the columns
of our esteemed contemporary “The
Tumut and Adelong Times”....
K.A.McG.: The old dog is sleeping
in the basket... .R.D.: After a
glance at your verse we feel certain
that you are more adept at skinning
kangaroos than writing poetry—
J.C.H.: There are many homeless
couples who will disagree with your
sentiments:
Australia! The Land of the Golden
Fleece,
Where all is sunshine and peace.
A land where you can find a home,
No matter where you may roam.
....Clem: It is not for u 5....
E.J.W.: You are about the tenth
young, disillusioned person who has
told us this week that “Love, the
mirage of the night, fades with morn-
ing’s candid light” L.A.P.: Take
your scurrying mice away 1.G.8.:
Down at 252 George-street, Sydney,
we can hardly move without bumping
into tall mountains, “towering in
eloquent silence,” dumped on us by
poets from all over Australia....
N.M.F.: It took our cleaning staff
days to clean up after that duststorm
had passed through the place—
8.C.: Not presenting Paddy the
Tramp and Tiger the Champ to our
readers.... E.K.8.L.: It went out
with the ebb-tjde S.M.Q.: Cheer
up OJ.M.: The signals were
against you L.J.: Not wanting it
for the issue before Anzac Day—
M.R.G.: Back it goes to Narrabun-
dah... .C.N.: Slight.. . .8.M.: Oh,
to be a poet with nothing better to
do than to “laze in the tepid tropic
sea” M.L.: We left the house-
wives to battle it out in the basket.


Why They're Watching Smog
Poison In Your City Air
By C. McNEIL
WHEN Australian authori-
ties speak of smog they
usually mean the smoke-
and-fog mixture which
sometimes chokes cities like
London for days on end. Their
idea seems to be that because
Australian cities are relatively
free from fog, we may have
smoke-pollution, but not its
wicked brother —the creeping,
poisoning, killing smog.
Former N.S.W. Liberal leader
Mr. Vernon Treatt thinks they
are wrong. He has made a
special study of the problem
from the Australian point of
view, and in an important speech
he gave the State Parliament the
benefit of his inquiries.
There were some startling
details in Mr. Treatt’s informa-
tion, but a prevailing newsprint
shortage and a concurrent red-
hot crime sensation practically
smogged the speech out of the
dailies.
Other remarkable contribu-
tions on the subject include (1)
a clear glass bottle fitted with a
funnel, which sits on top of the
G.P.O. building in Sydney (it
isn’t the only one, by the way),
and (2) a brief report by a
council health-inspector in one
of Sydney’s industrial suburbs.
The bottle? With only the
sky above, it stands there for a
month. Then a man from the
Health Department comes and
replaces it with a shining clean
bottle.
The dirty grey powder in the
old one will be a concentration
of what the people in the city
have been breathing—deadly
poisons, lung - irritants and
particles of ash will be in it.
The man from the Health
Department takes the bottle with
him, and goes on to his next
trap. There are about 30 of
them on his round.
From these bottles his depart-
ment has found that at Pyrmont
(near the wharves, railway-
sidings and power-plants) the
air is so polluted that dust falls
at a rate of 40 tons a square
mile a month.
In the heart of Sydney the
rate is 20 tons. On this figure
the city is in world-class, for
London’s rate is only from 20
to 25 tons.
The department has found the
worst rate in New South Wales
at industrial Port Kembla, south
of Sydney. Port Kembla’s rate
is 100 tons a square mile a
month.
Sheffield, England, has a read-
ing of 140 tons.
The health-inspector men-
tioned is Mr. R. S. Williams, of
Leichhardt, and, like many a
council officer, he is cautious in
his public statements.
When he found recently that
346 people had died in his area
with respiratory troubles in a
four-year period he mentioned
the fact in a report he was
making on smoke-pollution, but
he claimed nothing. He said
it would be impossible to assess
how many of the people had
died because of the smoke.
In his report he pointed out
that some of the pollution was
foreign,” drifting in on the
winds from industries in other
places. But the bulk of it was
home-made power-stations,
local industries, railway-yards
and the rest all contributed.
Mr. Williams urged that the
council get a panel of experts
together representing all the
people who made the smoke, to
see what could be done. The
c r?l , a d?Pted his report,
w lc h coincided with a petition
signed by 500 of its ratepayers
complaining about the munici-
pal air.
News of Mr. Williams’s report
came to the State Parliament,
where Mr. Treatt proposed that
the Government should form a
committee to look into the prob-
lem as it affected the whole
State.
The Minister for Local Gov-
ernment, Mr. J. B. Renshaw, a
few days later stated that the
Government would set up a
“smoke committee.”
In his speech Mr. Treatt
mentioned that there was noth-
ing very new about smog or any
other form of smoke-pollution.
Queen Eleanor, wife of Henry
111, had left the Royal residence
in Nottingham and gone to Tut-
bury Castle “because of smoke
and unendurable vapors there-
from.” In 1273 the English
Parliament had passed a law
prohibiting the use of “sea coal”
(bituminous) because it gave off
Forty tons of smoggery per square mile per month.
smoke —as it does today, with a
poisonous gas thrown in.
Mr. Treatt quoted John
Evelyn, the 17th-century diarist,
in a pamphlet called “Fumi-
fugium, or Inconvenience of the
Aer and Smoake of London
Dissipated.” Addressed to
Charles 11, the pamphlet
deplored the
hellish and dismal cloud of sea coal
which is not only perpetual over
her [London's] head but so un-
usually mixed with otherwise whole-
some and excellent aer that' her in-
habitants breath nothing but an
impure and thick mist accompanied
by a fuliginous and filthy vapor,
corrupting the beings and disorder-
ing the entire habits of their bodies.
Mr. Treatt said that this
“most formidable indictment”
was strongly supported by
today’s scientists. Investigations
by medical men had already
established beyond doubt that
air polluted by chemical gases
was responsible for economic
loss and impaired health.
Smog, a mixture of smoke
and water vapor, was much
more common in Australia, he
said, than people from abroad
would have us believe. You
did not necessarily need fog to
have smog.
“Because on most occasions
one sees a clear sky over indus-
trial areas one imagines there
is no problem,” said Mr. Treatt.
“But often in travelling from
the mountains to Sydney, or
when approaching Sydney by
the air, one sees the city lying
under a blanket of smog held
down by dampness.”
Mr. Treatt said this was not
just common to Sydney, or to
the industrial parts of N.S.W.
In Sydney, he added, com-
plaints had been made that
chemicals and gases had blighted
vegetation and gardens, caused
brickwork and stones to crumble
and ruined paintwork:
“In areas where smoke hangs
thickly window-drapings become
dirty overnight and grime
accumulates speedily on the out-
side of houses; as a result, dry-
cleaning and maintenance costs
are substantial.
“It is wrong to say that these
things are inevitable and merely
the price we pay for industrial
progress. This unpleasant
nuisance is not always recog-
nised, because the housewife
who has to wash the curtains
and the husband who has to
wash the outside walls do not
know that the cause is a factory
two or three miles away which
belches smoke at regular
intervals.”
Mr. W. A. H. Howarth (Lib.),
member for Maitland, had sug-
gested that atmospheric pollut-
ants had been harmful to vege-
tation in the Maitland [Hunter
River] district.
“The Government,” said Mr.
Howarth, “admits that power-
houses are the principal dis-
seminaters of smog, and in future
green-belts will act as a cushion
between them and living-areas.
It is, of course, optimistic to
call such buffers ‘green-belts.’
Unless the nuisance is abated
they may well become dead
land.”
Mr. Treatt recalled a “stock-
ing blight” which, in 1951, had
Jacksonville (U.S.A.) women
greatly worried. In March that
year Macy’s, one of the largest
stores in the town, had com-
plained that Returns of stockings
were four times greater than
usual.
The makers, Du Pont, were
shocked to find that some of the
stockings had up to 10 holes in
them. Their scientists found
that most of the trouble came
from the worst area for smog-
concentration. They proved
that the holes had been caused
by sulphur - dioxide pouring
from chimneys and forming
droplets in a moist atmosphere.
For a time the young ladies
and matrons of Jacksonville
had faced the terrifying prospect
that their nylon garments might
disintegrate without warning.
Mr. Treatt said there were
other economic losses through
smog which were easier to
establish. Fog made the smoke
hang low over some towns of
England. People there had to
turn on their lights earlier in
the evenings because the smog
cut back the sunlight. Their
electricity-bills were bigger.
On what smog could do to a
person’s health, some medical
findings overseas have been
clear and definite,
Dr. Pemberton and Mr. Gold-
berg, of the Department of
Social and Industrial Medicine
at Sheffield University, found
evidence that types of air-
pollution had an effect on the
death-rate through bronchitis of
middle-aged and elderly males.
Their figures regarding women
were not so conclusive. Sulphur-
dioxide, which pours freely
from some Australian industries,
was the villain,
In 1938, said Mr. Treatt,
“an extraordinary happening
occurred in America, at a place
called Derora, which was the
subject of extensive and careful
inquiry by United States
authorities. Following exten-
sive fogs in highly industrialised
areas many citizens died, and as
a result of extensive inquiry the
conclusion was reached that
there was a direct relationship
between the deaths and illnesses
and the absorption by the
victims of deleterious matter
from smog.”
Mr. Treatt referred to the four
days in London in December,
1952, when direct smog deaths
were estimated as high as
10,000. Poisonous gases built
up in still air under a heavy
smog, and pollution became
Worse day by day.
He said that, as well, the
condition of a large number of
people suffering respiratory
troubles worsened.
He could have motioned
some other vxctims which that
smog claimed—many Pekinese
gathered in London at the time
for a show.
Asked “Would the fumes
from motor-cars be a contribut-
ing factor to smog? » M r. Treatt
said: “That is an important
factor. There is substantial
evidence to suggest that they
may be a cause of cancer.”
He mentioned three doctors
—Kotin, Falk and Mader, of
the University of Southern Cali-
fornia—who, after a series of
experiments on mice, had
reported:
“The air of our cities and
industrial centres should be
examined to see whether cancer-
causing chemicals in it are
responsible for the increase in
the number of lung-cancer cases
in recent years.
“When chemicals from the air
of Los Angeles during smog
and non-smog periods were
painted on black mice, skin-
tumors appeared on the animals
within 15 months. Skin-tumors
and -cancers developed on black
mice after painting with gaso-
line-engine exhaust-products.”
These three doctors had
reported that:
0 A disproportionate rise in
lung-cancer had been noted
in city population-groups.
0 The air in the city con-
tained cancer - producing
substances.
• The accelerated rate' of
lung - cancer frequently
paralleled most dramati-
cally the industrialisation of
a society.
0 The introduction of the
gasoline-engine was one of
the chief characteristics of
this industrialisation.
0 Its exhaust-fumes had be-
come one of the main air-
pollutants.
0 These fumes held products
which could cause cancer.
Professor McWhirter, of the
Chair of Medical Radiology at
the University of Edinburgh, had
been quoted as saying that
smoke and atmospheric impuri-
ties of a city contributed towards
cancer, and that the best safe-
guards against cancer were not
to start smoking and to leave
the city.
Mr. Treatt said that if the
problem of smog was tackled,
with the present day’s know-
ledge, there would be little
excuse for smoke pouring from
any installation’s stack.
In its experiments the City of
Manchester is trying to cut
smoke - pollution completely
from one square mile in its
boundaries. London is doing
something the same.
For nearly half a century
Pittsburg, in the United States,
has been working at the prob-
lem and was able to report last
year that smoke-pollution was
now nearly non-existent. The
city was one of the most highly
industrialised in America, but
with the latest equipment it
believed it could rid itself
entirely of smog.
Describing how this equip-
ment worked, Mr. Treatt said
that the smoke, before it reached
the sky, went through giant
water - spray towers which
removed dust and iron particles.
He said:
“It goes through electrical
precipitators which pull out
finer coke-particles. The smoke
that finally emerges is almost
invisible, and carries none of the
objectionable particles that
formerly descended on the city
in both haze and smog. The
new cleaning - facilities are
expected to recover about 370
tons of iron-dust a day.”
He said the problem’s solu-
tion here demanded the co-
operation of both sides in
Parliament and from the com-
munity generally.
Well, he may get his wish.
The N.S.W. Government is
setting up a committee. The
City Council has done so. Out
at Leichhardt, where the health-
inspector may have started the
ball rolling by mentioning that
346 people had died, the council
has its panel of experts.
It is expected that a number
of the State’s other local coun-
cils will come in, and that Local
Government Minister Renshaw
will get their efforts moving
under one control.
Apart from those outlined by
Mr. Treatt, the N.S.W. (or any
other) Government should find
plenty of reasons for moving a
bit faster than usual.
One recent instance comes
from Yokohama, Japan. U.N.
forces there and the local people
have been going down in hun-
dreds with a form of asthma.
o Continued on page 30)


fa convinced CAPST4H
is better tobacco!'
“I have tried many tobaccos but none to
compare with Capstan for true smoking
enjoyment.
“Capstan’s own blend of fine Virginia
tobaccos is consistently maintained; you
can always be sure of its flavour and fine
smoking qualities.’*
Ask everywhere for — j
m
m
CAPSTAN
-better tobacco
K.
m
m
m
mm
&
m
s'**
m
B
vv
•J 4
II
2*
TOBACCO
VIRGINIA
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT
204D.1Q.M
SPORTING NOTIONS
Two top-class gallopers, Con-
naught and Aboukir, resumed
racing at Canterbury Park (Syd-
ney), and both scored impres-
sively after a rest of upwards of
three months. Connaught’s
quick winning form lifted him
to equal favorite with Belbeiys
for the Doncaster.
Connaught, now a handsome
four-year-old, showed his for-
ward condition by his dashing
finish on the outside of the field,
cutting out the six in 1.12,
fsec. outside the track-record.
Connaught won the Epsom with
8.1 and a little later file V.R.C.
Final Handicap with 9.1 (7.3
limit), so seems nicely placed in
the Doncaster with 8.12; and a
mile seems his best distance.
Aboukir is another easy on
the eyes. The chestnut two-
year-old was bred in New
Zealand, and is one of F. Dal-
ton’s Randwick team. Aboukir
has started four times for a
second, then three wins, most
important being the Maribyr-
nong Plate. The colt made light
of his 9.4 on Saturday, and now
goes to Melbourne for the
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce and
V.A.T.C. Merson Cooper
Stakes.
Sydney’s best sprinter, Gay
Vista, had an easy win in the
five furlongs w.f.a. Lightning
Stakes at Flemington. He ran
the distance in a little over one
minute. New Slipper started
second-favorite, but she beat
only one home.
Knave, in the same Sydney
stable as Farquhar (winner over
seven furlongs in the First
Paddock Handicap at Flem-
ington) and Prince Cortauld,
was expected to down rivals
in the Flemington Criterion
Handicap for two-year-olds,
but 9.11 proved too much
and he missed a place after shar-
ing favoritism with the winner,
Dark Silk, who carried 9st.
Dark Silk cost 2600gns. as a
yearling, but has paid off with
three wins on end. He is by
Empyrean (imp.) from Tres Chic
by Law Maker (imp.). Tres
Chic is a sister to Ungar, winner
of upwards of £20,000 in stakes.
A Melbourne plan for Gay
Vista, as announced after three
successive wins in Sydney,
was the Lightning Stakes (which
he won), then the Oakleigh Plate
and, if he won that, a decision
would then be made about the
Newmarket. O’Sullivan, trainer
and part-owner, hinted that Gay
Vista might be a bit weary after
the Oakleigh, and his big weight
in the Newmarket was a poser.
So Gay Vista is a warm favorite
for the Oakleigh and at short
odds for the Newmarket. Since
1930 best winning performances
in the Newmarket with weight
were those by Greenline 10.2
(1930), Bemborough 9.13 (1946)
and Royal Gem 9.9 (1948).
Jockey Jack Thompson thought
he would win on Volther at
Canterbury. He rode the first
five winners, but couldn’t get
there on Volther. Thompson’s
five successive wins was his best
for one day, though he had pre-
viously won five races in an
afternoon’s programme, once at
Gosford and once when he made
a trip to Ireland. A feature of
Thompson’s sequence was that
not one of his mounts started
favorite.
Cook rode five winners and a
third from six mounts at Rand-'
wick in March, 1951, Jack
Toohey piloted five successive
winners at Canterbury in May,
1923, E. Bartle rode six winners
and a second at Moorefield in
March, 1930. One of the best
on record was that by J.
Naughton, who rode mostly at
N.S.W. country fixtures. In
December, 1951, he had a win-
ning sequence of 11 at pro-
vincial and Sydney meetings,
and altogether had 13 winners
from 14 mounts. That will take
toppling.
Prince Cortauld, in grand
form, could win the Alister Clark
Stakes, li mile, at Moonee
Valley next Saturday. He wasn’t
extended to win the C. F. Orr
Stakes and, on Saturday at
Flemington, the w.-f.-a. Blarney
Stakes.
• • • •
Two-year-old King’s Bench,
who opened his winning
account at Hawkesbury, cost
lOOOgns. as a yearling. He is a
son of Emperor (Fr.), who has
had a few winners in this his
first season. Emperor was bred
by the noted French studmaster
and racing owner Marcel
Boussac, and is by Djebel, a
son of Tourbillon. Christmas
Box (imp.), dam of King’s
Bench, was got by Winterhalter
from Nest Egg by White Eagle,
and goes back to Tracery. The
colt is closely related to
Emborough, sire of Bern-
borough.
• • • •
In her first race for nearly a
year the four-year-old mare
Rosebelle was at long odds at
Canterbury last Saturday, but
won easily. She had been work-
ing well on the track, but
evidently the punters missed her.
Advocate has done well on the
track since his Rosehill win and
is fit for the Alister Clark Stakes,
in which he seems rather
nicely placed on 8.4. Advocate
is no stranger to Melbourne,
where his wins include the 1952
V.R.C. Derby, in record time.
He was second to Arbroath in
the following V.R.C. St. Leger.
Advocate has 9.0 in the Sydney
Cup.
Weather conditions kept a
few from Canterbury last Satur-
day, but the attendance (21,500)
was not many short of the
corresponding fixture last season,
while the totalisator-holding,
£BO,OOO, was same as last year.
With the better-class horses now
coming back to racing following
the summer spell, attendances
are expected to improve sharply.
Next Saturday week the A.J.C.
will return to Warwick Farm
with a meeting mostly for the
moderate class of galloper, as
there will be two Novice contests
for two-year-olds, a Graduation
Stakes and a Novice run at 11
furlongs for three-year-olds and
upwards.
’Twas raining (it usually is) at
the Crowell (Oxfordshire) races,
and in the steeplechase every-
thing fell except Braidburn.
Then, two fences from home,
Braidburn went down. The
owner-rider remounted, got him
over the fence, but he balked
at the last. Whereupon a bunch
of (presumably) punters ran on
to the course and half-lifted,
half-pushed Braidburn over and
through. The stewards gave the
horse the race and the books
paid.
Australian champ. Ribands
moved smartly and looked the
winner turning for home in his
heat of the Inter-Dominion trot
at Epsom (N.Z.). He fagged on
his run, however, to finish third
to Petite Yvonne in 3.29 f.
Ribands holds the world record
of 3.21| for the 13 furlongs.
Brilliant three-year-old pacer
Explicit won the Victorian Oaks
in Melbourne. Her mile gait
of 2.11| was a race-record.
Last year she took the
Sydney Sapling Stakes without
turning a hair. This year a
glance at the Sydney Trotting
Derby noms, including horses
like Frisco Sky and Set Point,
suggests she’ll have to turn a
hair.
4* +
A wicket off the first ball of a
big match is rare: Bedser did it
to Briggs in M.C.C.-v.-N.S.W.
Best-known instance —and the
only time it’s happened in a
“Visitors tonight — here's the list."
Test —was in the first 1936-37
Test, when Englishman Stan
Worthingto'n was caught behind
by Oldfield off McCormick
(Briggs was out caught behind,
too), Briggs, who didn’t take
strike in N.S.W.’s second
innings, went again for a duck:
a “pair,” more common, of
course, than the other, but still
“news,” And, just to keep it
going: N.S.W. and M.C.C. both
made 172 in the first innings.
“OW.C”: “Sidav” (B.
9/2/’55) stepped on his wicket
in claiming a Test-century for
Tibby Cotter, who never got
closer than 45. Tib’s record in
Tests against England is 16
matches, 29 innings, highest
score 45, average (with one not-
out) 13.46. In 40 innings in
Sheffield Shield his best was 82.
Against S’Africa his best was 36
not-out.
* • • •
“J.A.K.”: C. T. B. Turner
has always been known as “The
Terror,” just as Spofforth was
“The Demon.” Cotter was not
of the same era. Turner played
his last Test in 1895, and Cotter
his first in 1903-04. My records
say “Tibby” never made a Test-
century, his best being 45 in
1905.
N.S.W- won this season’s
Sheffield Shield, making the
second successive win and 27
wins in all. The side gained 13
points (two outright and one
first-innings win) and was beaten
outright by Victoria in Mel-
bourne. Victoria was runner-up
with 11 points.
m • • •
With the Shield programme
cut down, the three eastern States
and S.A. each played four
games: N.S.W. played Victoria
twice and Queensland twice, Vic-
toria played S.A. and Q. (once
each), and S.A. played Victoria,
Q. (once) and W-A. (twice).
These two games against S.A.
constituted W-A.’s full Shield
programme; and had it defeated
S.A. outright in the second match
(which appeared likely till rain
washed-out the game) would
have won the Shield on percen-
tages. Thus the Shield would
then have gone to a State which,
in all likelihood, would have
been beaten by both N.S.W. and
Victoria had it played them.
John Rutherford, W.A.
opening-bat (like Colin Mc-
Donald, Rutherford plays grade-
cricket with a ’.Varsity), made a
century in each match against
S.A. (167 in Adelaide, 108 in
Perth). Last season he made
one century (121, also against
S.A.), and got a respectable score
in each of his other Shield
matches. He’s got plenty of
admirers, not only in the West,
who think he’s good enough to
be given a Test. He seems
unlucky to have picked Western
Australia to be born in.
“Bullswool”: Here are some
more curious cricketers’ names—
Englishmen as well as Aus-
tralians: Fender and Fry (a nice
domestic touch), Ironmonger
and Iremonger, Fielder (he had
to live up to it), Trumper and
Trumble, Midwinter, Hole,
Saggers, Tribe, Appleyard,
Quaife and Toshack. By the
way, the Smiths did get half-way
into the picture with the carefree
Fleetwood.
A former well-known N.S.W.
cricketer named Wendell Bill had
a brother named Waldo. Here
endeth the symposium.
* * ‘ *
Biggest prizemoney for Aus-
tralian pro. golf is put up by
Ampol for the Sydney tourna-
ment next spring. The total is
£3OOO, with first-prize of £lOOO
and a second-prize of £4OO, plus
£llOO for next-best scores.
Limited to three instead of the
usual four days, there will be two
qualifying 18 holes and a final
36. Best 36 seniors and best 12
juniors will qualify.
In the Ampol next spring
junior pros are looked after. A
junior could collect £ll5O if his
winning junior score should
better the best senior’s. For the
juniors £5OO is set aside; the
junior tourney will fall into two
groups, those under 21 years on
June 30, and those under 18
years on the same date.
* * *
In the Australian swimming
championships in Adelaide,
Queenslander David Theile set
new Australian time for 110yds.
backstroke (67.45ec.). Like
Henricks and Murray Rose,
Theile has been doing a share of
record-smashing this season, and
is close to the world’s best times;
he’s Australia’s best backstroker
since Westralian Percy Oliver,
whose record it was that he
broke.
* * •
“Kay”: Victorian Dave
Stephens, three-mile and six-
mile Australian champion, is by
no means the first “flying milk-
man.” Fred Kohlmann and
Harry Sheaves, first and second
in an Australasian 10-mile cross-
country run in Melbourne back
in the ’twenties, were both milk-
purveyors, as was Harry s
brother, Jack, one of the best
distance-runners we’ve had. Two
of Jack’s main rivals, back in the
’thirties, Tom Watters and David
Roddan,’ were milkies. Stephens
is studying to be a schoolteacher ,
he should note that when Jack
Sheaves gave away the milk-run
his running went to pieces.


Out on the Big River
Songs of the Murray
By IAN MUDIE
THE old notion that Aus-
tralia was devoid of folk-
songs has been destroyed
by the recent rediscovery
of so many of them by collec-
tors, but, even though the
number of collected songs is
mounting, there must have been
many that will never be
recovered. Their lives were
short, and their disappearance
left no echo.
It seems that the later in time
they were composed the sooner
they disappeared. Take, for
instance, “Jack Kerans’ Song,”
all but four lines of which
seems to have been lost in less
than 30 years.
This song commemorated the
occasion on which, in either
1918 or 1919, the lift-span at
Koondrook jammed, preventing
Murray River steamers from
passing under the bridge, and
so giving their crews a few days’
unexpected holiday while re-
pairs were carried out. Kerans
may have been the author,
though this is not certain ; he
may have been one of the prin-
cipal characters.
The surviving stanza con-
cerns the crew of the Oscar W.,
who appear to have heard of the
jamming while some distance
up or down the river from
Koondrook. Charley Haynes
was skipper and Gunboat Smith
was mate; these two, as well
as the cook and the engineer,
would, by virtue of their posi-
tions, be exempt from the heavy
job of wooding-up—the load-
ing from bank to steamer of logs
of firewood for the boiler. Here
are the surviving lines:
There was Gunboat Smith, and
Skipper Haynes, and the cook and
the engineer,
All standing out cm the after-deck
drinking some bottles of beer;
The rest of the crew, all looking blue
and feeling pretty crook,
Were passing wood as fast as they
could, and longing for Koon-
drook.
That fragment came my way
in 1946. Since then I have
pestered every old-timer I could
get hold of (and their descend-
ants and relations as well), but
have been unable to rake any
further lines out of their
memories. I have not been able
even to establish that a Jack
Kerans really existed, the
nearest I have come to it being
when one old-timer said vaguely,
“Wasn’t he the bloke that wrote
a song about something or
other?”
Incidentally, the Oscar W. is
one of the few remaining
Murray steamers afloat as such
today. In 1943 she was bought
by the South Australian High-
ways and Local Government
Department, and is now a
travelling punt - maintenance
workshop. No crew will ever
wood her up again ; she has been
converted to an oil-burner.
It is an especial pity that the
rest of “Jack Kerans’ Song” has
disappeared, along with all
knowledge of to what tune it
was to be sung, for the Murray
and Darling steamer-trade, while
its history is rich in anecdote,
did not produce enough folk-
songs and ballads to fill even
one small volume.
Will Ogilvie brought the
Darling steamers into a couple
of lines of “King Barwon,” and
the boats find their place in
some of Will Lawson’s poems.
Of all the many hundreds of
fresh-water sailors who swarmed
along over four-thousand miles
of inland waterways in Aus-
tralia only two—F. H. Brown
and Charles Shaw—have given
us actual river-poems. Skipper
Bervin Wilson, who ran out of
Echuca in the ’eighties and
’nineties, is said to have written
a number of steamboat ballads,
but none has come down to us.
Francis Humphris Brown was
the thirteenth child of Captain
J. H. Brown, who skippered his
own boats, first out of Echuca
and then out of Bourke, yet of
the 42 poems in Brown’s Songs
of the Plains only two are con-
cerned with river-boats. “The
Last of the Darling Dread-
noughts” mourns the family’s
last, and favorite, steamer, the
Nile, destroyed by fire in 1926:
But never again shall we hear at the
dawn,
As the wild-ducks fly ahead,
The splash, splash, splash of her
paddle-wheel,
As out from a timbered bend she’d
steal
To straighten her barge on an even
keel,
With a load from the Dunlop
shed.
The humor of the other poem,
“The Proxy Cook,” is a little
strained:
Now this is the rhyme of the proxy
cook.
And the proxy cook that’s me,
Who by means surreptitious achieved
renown
On the Pride of the Murray, that left
the town
Of Echuca for stations further down
In the year of ‘B3.
The poem is maintained for
another fifteen stanzas.
Although the career on the
river of Charles Shaw (long
before he became Delaney’s
creator, Bant Singer) was many
years shorter than was Brown’s,
his “Murray Memory” (first
published in The Bulletin, and
the best of his few steamer-
poems) has much more smell of
the river in it than have Brown’s
versifying on the Nile and the
Pride of the Murray.
Shaw writes of the Struggler
(which later finished up her
career, also by fire, under the
name Marloo). This was one of
the smaller, and crazier, of the
steamers, used chiefly for fishing
“Y' can't beat a bit of music while y' work."
and for carrying smaller cargoes,
such as loads of oranges and
furniture. His opening stanza
recalls the river saying that the
Struggler was such a “crank
boat” that it only needed a fat
man to step on one side of her
for her to develop a list:
Our boat was built for fishing, with a
hull of Murray-gum,
And her paddles housed in iron
from a roof;
Her wheelhouse was a packing-case,
it seemed a trifle rum,
Since it leaned to port as though
t’would be aloof.
The boiler often sprung a leak and
shot forth jets of steam,
What time the engine danced upon
its bed,
Whereat the captain and the crew
would dive into the stream.
And wait to see the thing blow
off its head.
And that, as a skipper who
describes himself as “a baby on
the river” once said to me, “is
written by a man that can talk
river.”
The most genuine folk-note in
Murray and Darling songs and
poems was struck by the pen of
Echuca journalist and poet
Keighley Goodchild. His Who
Are You?, published in 1883,
contained “A Nautical Yarn,”
to be sung to the air of “Dread-
nought.” The “Yarn” begins:
I sing of a capting not unknown to
fame;
A naval commander, Bill Jinks is hits
name,
Who sailed where the Murray’s clear
waters do flow,
Did this freshwater shellback, with
his Yeo heave a Yeo.
On the way to Wahgunyah a
storm sprang up, and the crew,
fearing they would be drowned,
implored the captain to save
them, until at last the steamer
“stuck on a sandbank, so the
men walked ashore,” part of the
joke of which is that at times
of low-river the Murray be-
tween Echuca and Wahgunyah
could be so narrow and so full
of snags and sandbanks that a
steamer might be forced to spend
anything up to eight days in
making the 228-mile passage.
“A Nautical Yarn” has now
been recorded in a collection of
Australian folk-songs, sung by
Burl Ives. If it gains the popu-
larity that many of our folk-
songs deserve it may yet be sung
once more on the banks of the
Murray, when, without a doubt,
ghosts of skippers of the past
will steer the ghosts of vanished
steamers close inshore to listen.
I hope that Jack Kerans will be
with them.
Murray Voyage
By WILL LAWSON
ONE day in the 1930's I inter-
viewed the manager of
Permewan Wright, Ltd., last of
the many firms that ran steamers
and traded on the Murray, and
was given a letter to the manager
of Murray River Shipping, Ltd.,
at Morgan (S.A.). There I met
Captain Ron Johnson, of the
Wanera, bound for Mildura 200
miles up-river.
“We’re berthing you in the
mess-room,” Captain Johnson
said. “Not much room in this
packet, as we have a full cargo.
You’ll be wakened up a bit when
we come off watch every six
hours. That’s your bunk, that
seat there—a bit hard, but wide
enough. When we come in for
a snack at watch-changing, you
can sit up and join in.”
A short black tube ran up
through the mess-room.
“What’s that?” I asked.
“Oh, that’s the funnel! Makes
a bit of a racket, but you’ll get
used to it. High-pressure
engines, you know; like most
riverboats, no silencer.”
Mr. Carr was the mate, Dan
Minnie bargemaster, Gus
engineer. Soon we started. The
engine wheezed a bit, the paddles
began to revolve —huge paddles
they were—and the exhaust
started its song. What a song!
It raged in the mess-room, and I
thought I would never sleep;
but I managed that all right.
The cook was a cheerful soul,
who had his cookhouse in one
paddle-box. The fire-box in the
boiler was very long, able to take
4ft. lengths of wood—all river
redgum.
About 20 miles out we stopped
at a woodpile to take fuel
aboard. In this all hands took
part, including the passenger.
Each length was lifted and passed
by hand, each man stumping it a
little further along the plank
till at length it was tossed into
the wood-box.
Then night fell. This was the
most wonderful part of the
voyage. Electric headlights were
lit, one at each end of the bridge.
They threw vivid light on the
trees, and the birds, startled out
of their calm, screamed and
flapped across the river to other
trees, on which the lights
presently shone, too, as the
steamer followed the winding
river. Plenty of birds were there
—cockatoos, parrots, wild-duck,
shags. And all the time the
staccato sound of the funnel
echoed along the river.
The highest part of the boat
was the towing-post; the funnel
was lower, giving a clear sweep
of the towline whichever way the
steamer swerved.
At midnight I was awakened
when the watch going on duty
came in for supper, and after
they had gone the watch coming
off came in. I had plenty of
company. And all the time the
funnel roared like a thing
possessed.
Next day was hot, and the
skipper said he wanted a dip. I
thought we would stop; but no,
he stripped to the buff and dived
in with the paddles roaring—he
went in behind the paddles, but
I was told of another skipper
who used to dive in ahead of
them —because he liked to hear
the wheel roaring over his head!
Captain Ron had not swum
much when he was at the barge ;
then he came back hand-over-
hand in the dinghy.
At night, at Ned’s Corner, a
large sheep-station, we landed
tons of barbed fencing-wire
which had been shipped from
Newcastle to Adelaide and
loaded at Morgan. No winch
or derrick; but pulleys were
rigged to overhanging boughs
away from the river, the heaving-
line wound round a drum on the
shaft, and the engine sent astern,
and the heavy stuff fairly shot
up the steep slope.
At Rufous Reach, below
Wentworth, the barge ran
aground. The skipper sent Dan
Minnie ahead with the dinghy
and a sounding-rod. As Dan
called the depths to the skipper,
the steamer followed a winding
course, paying-out the towline
of the barge, till she reached a
bank with trees.
There the barge’s towline was
made fast to a tree and wound
round the drum of the paddle-
shaft, and the engine started
slowly astern, while the moorings
held the boat fast. Soon the
barge began to come towards us,
like an elephant being dragged,
literally, overland.
We stayed a day at Mildura.
Our first stop on the return
voyage was at a vineyard for
which we had empty wine-
barrels. These were rolled up a
steep plank by the men. While
this was being done I saw a black
animal trying to climb the bank
to escape, but unable to do so.
He fell back every time.
One of the men yelled,
“There’s a fox down there! ”
The animal must have under-
stood, for, as the skipper ran
to get his gun, the creature,
whatever it was —it looked like a
black dingo—raced along the
level ground to the plank, raced
up till it reached the men, then
sprang on to firm ground. A
shrewd move: The skipper
couldn’t fire for fear of shooting
one of the men.
About dusk we passed a
reach where there is a rock,
known as Cadell’s Rock, named
after the first voyager on the
Murray. There have been argu-
fhents as to whether he or
Captain Randell was first. What
is forgotten is that Cadell first
went down the river in a whale-
boat manned by lucky miners
from Bendigo who wished to
get out of Victoria without pay-
ing duty on their gold. Thus
Cadell first proved the river was
navigable.
On this occasion the men of
the Wanera cursed Cadell and his
rock. The barge had been loaded
with wool right down to its
marks; it took in water, and
looked certain to sink. They
got over it by heaving the barge
alongside the boat, with a steam
siphon inserted in it, reaching
deep into the hull. Then a jet
of steam from the engine roared
through the siphon, and water
shot out of the barge in torrents.
All night and half next day it
surged out, and finally we got it
safely through and were back
again in Morgan ...
And now most of the old-time
river-men—seamen from ports
all round the Seven Seas;
Swedes, Germans, Englishmen,
Scotsmen, Americans have
passed on, and the steamers, too,
save the old Wanera, now a
showboat at Mildura, taking
passengers for short cruises of a
few days. Her old skipper, Ron
Johnson, was still with her when
last I heard.


The name is
(D'Calluins
m
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC23/3.2
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TELEVISED MENZIES
Impressions of a London
“Spectator” political com-
mentator :
“No one who saw it will ever
forget the impression of uncom-
plicated commonsense and
stability—of sheer sanity—which
Mr. Menzies gave as soon as he
opened his mouth. The contrast
between hirp and his journalistic
questioners was pointed: the
journalists worrying about
theoretical solutions to hypo-
thetical problems; Mr. Menzies
insisting that there could only be
empirical solutions to actual and
stated problems.
“He himself underlined the
difference when he said that it
was not for him or anyone else
at the Commonwealth Prime
Ministers’ Conference to seek a
definitive answer to a situation
which had not yet arisen: the
man who wanted to do that
should not be in politics but
should be—a delightful pause,
here —a commentator. Mr.
Menzies emerged, then, as what
he is: an undoctrinaire, practical
politician, who has lived, at the
centre, through more difficult
situations than the Formosan
one and seen them met
by a succession of day-to-day
decisions and not by speculative
theorising.
“Unlike the journalists, he
refused to be alarmed, ruffled or
hustled by present differences in
the Far East, and refused in par-
ticular to commit himself or his
country to any future course of
action in circumstances which he
could not foresee. He would just
go on, day after day, probing
and testing until, from this
unspectacular process, a solution
at last emerged. I doubt whether
the ordinary elector has ever
been given a more impressive
lesson in what politics really tries
to do ; whether he has ever been
made more aware that political
decisions can never be either
taken off the peg or made to
measure ; they are, of necessity,
just pieces of patchwork.”
Drawing some general con-
clusions, the “Spectator” com-
mentator writes that “the lesson”
of Mr. Menzies’s appearance
(and also the appearance of Sir
Godfrey Huggins the same
evening) “seems to me quite
clear. At a time when the Labor
party is trying to find out how
the ordinary elector likes his
politics served to him on tele-
vision, Mr. Menzies and Sir
Godfrey Huggins have supplied
the same answer as Mr. Eden did
a few weeks before.
“Serve it straight, without
tricks or embellishments, and
then, if there is a real character,
a real personality, real talent and
real sincerity, to be revealed, the
cameras will find it. Equally, if
the talent is spurious, the
sincerity superficial, the
character bogus, the cameras will
find that, too. Television is
clearly going to be important.
My point is that it need not be
feared.”
TRIAL IN YUGOSLAVIA
The Djilas-Dedijer Affair
Mention has been made here
of the “Djilas-Dedijer affair”
(the trial of two Yugoslav Com-
munists during Tito’s absence
from Belgrade on a visit to India
and Burma), the extreme sensi-
tivity of the Yugoslav Govern-
ment on the subject? and various
interpretations of the case which
have appeared in the overseas
press. In the light of recent
events in Russia, and what
appeared to be a consequent shift
in Yugoslavia’s foreign policy,
the case has more than ordinary
interest.
Last year Milovan Djilas was
one of the three or four top men
in Communist Yugoslavia, con-
sidered by many to be the most
likely successor to Tito. Among
other things, he was president of
the People’s Assembly, vice-
president of the Federal Execu-
tive Council, member of the
Executive Committee (Polit-
buro), and boss of the Yugoslav
press and propaganda. He was
also a close personal friend of
Tito’s.
Dedijer was Tito’s biographer,
and, like Djilas, a member of the
Central Committee. He came
into the story later.
Benes once described Djilas as
the only Communist leader who
dared to think independently.
Josef Korbel, former Czecho-
slovak Ambassador to Yugo-
slavia, said Djilas “does not like
to conceal from himself the situa-
tion as it really is, which most
Communists do.” Stalin is
reported to have said of him that
he was “very frank.”
“In short,” Thomas Taylor
Hammond writes in a careful
analysis of the first phase of the
affair, in the U.S. quarterly
“Foreign Affairs,” “it is surpris-
ing he lasted as long as he did.”
Writing on the second phase
(the trial of both Djilas and
Dedijer), in a letter to the “New
York Time s,” Constantin
Fotitch, former Yugoslav
Ambassador to the U.S., says the
political background of the affair
is Tito’s “new policy of ‘normali-
sation’ of relations with the
Soviets. Both Djilas and Dedijer
had the reputation of considering
the rift with the Kremlin an
ideological one, which cannot
be bridged by a mere change of
personalities or tactics in Soviet
policy. Both of them have also
been credited with personal rela-
tions with Aneurin Bevan, British
Left-wing Labor leader.”
Richard Lowenthal, in an
article on Russian policy in
London “Observer,” discusses
the Soviet wooing of Yugoslavia:
“Its primary purpose is
undoubtedly to neutralise Yugo-
slavia, and indirectly to paralyse
the Balkan Alliance. ' But the
Russian leaders must also be
aware of the risk they are taking
in giving greater scope to the
satellite Governments [on this
tendency, and particularly as it
concerns' Hungary, there have
been a good many comments in
U.K. and American papers], and
they may feel that the risk would
be diminished if they could
demonstrate that even inde-
pendent-minded Yugoslavia was
returning to the fold of its own
accord.”
JHow far these tendencies may
be hastened, or reversed, by the
change of leadership in the
U.S.S.R. is anybody’s guess. But
typical of many U.S. comments
on Yugoslavia is this one, from
“U.S. News and World Report”:
“Marshal Tito, Communist
ally of the United States, has
this country caught in the middle.
If aid flowing into Yugoslavia is
cut, then the nation’s dictator
may turn to Russia. Yet, if aid
goes on, the result, at best, is to
build a war-time neutral.”
Yugoslavia’s role as a bridge
between East and West has been
exhaustively discussed, over the
years. The possibility of Yugo-
slavia becoming a sort of
wooden-horse has not been very
seriously examined.
Be that as it may (and U.K.
commentators, on the whole, are
not inclined to take it seriously),
the Djilas case, as Hammond
remarks in his “Foreign Affairs”
article, is important because it
threw some light on the inner
workings of the Yugoslav
political-machine:
“The Djilas case was not just
another Communist purge like
those of Beria and Slansky, but
was unique in several respects.
In the first place, almost all the
facts were available. About most
Communist purges we can only
speculate ; for this one the world
had a ringside seat Djilas him-
self in his articles presented a
revealing expose of the Com-
munist party, the Government
and the private lives of the Com-
munist hierarchs. His trial was
fully covered by both press and
radio, providing additional peeks
into the Communist inner-circle.
Djilas apparently was not sub-
jected to ‘brain-washing,’ was
not accused of Trotskyism, of
collaborating with the enemy, or
of spying for foreign Powers, and
he did not make the usual type
of Communist ‘confession.’ ”
Hammond (professor at an
American university) makes the
further comment that, in the
break with Russia in 1948, the
Yugoslav Communists resolved
to return to the ‘true teachings’ of
Marxism-Leninism and get rid of
its ‘Stalinist deviations.’ Conse-
quently, beginning in 1950, the
Yugoslav leaders introduced a
series of reforms intended to
weaken arbitrary rule and
increase to some extent the
element of democracy in
Yugoslav life. These reforms
included the introduction of
work e r s’ management in
industry, the dissolution of
most of the forcibly-organised
collective-farms, the decentralisa-
tion of economic and Govern-
mental administration, and some
liberalisation in the field of civil
liberties.”
The “new look” called for
changes in the Communist party
itself. This change was rather
more gradual, but, at the Sixth
Party Congress, in November,
1952, a new programme was set
forth. The major change
announced was that the party
should thereafter rule not by
“administrative measures” (i.e.,
compulsion, arbitrary arrests),
but should exert its influence
through persuasion, education
and example.
Party-cells were to become
more independent, meetings were
to be open to the public, the
number of professional party
functionaries was to be reduced,
and party secretaries would no
longer hold top positions in
local government. “Communists
were expected to continue to lead
the masses along the path to
Socialism, but to do it by genuine
leadership rather than force. To
dramatise the new policy, the
name of the party was changed
to the Communist League.
“But changing the actual
character of the organisation
proved more difficult. In trying
to introduce both Socialism and
democracy, the Yugoslav leaders
ran into the same contradiction
which faced Lenin after the
—London “Daily Mail:”
“SAY, BUD, WHEREABOUTS IN FORMOSA IS SYDNEY?”
Russian Revolution: How can
you introduce Socialism demo-
cratically, when the majority of
the people do not want
Socialism?”
Like Lenin, they decided to
introduce it, anyway.
“This contradiction,” Ham-
mond continues, “was reflected
in the difficulties of the rank-and-
file.” Some continued to operate
in the old “bureaucratic” manner.
Others took the talk about
democracy seriously. These two
“negative” tendencies were dis-
cussed and condemned by a
plenary meeting of the party’s
Central Committee (about 100
officials) in June, 1953. But the
committee came down most
heavily on the “democrats.”
Djilas didn’t agree. At his
first trial he said that he began
to write his articles in “Borba,”
the official newspaper of the
Communist League, partly to
correct the “one-sideness” of the
Central Committee.
“Djilas’s articles,” writes
Hammond, “added up to a most
thorough critique of present-day
Yugoslav society. His main ideas
can be summarised as follows:
(1) Yugoslav Communists are
not willing to trust the Socialist-
consciousness of the masses,
although actually the majority
of the people are ready to
support the regime. (2) Com-
munism will come about
in Yugoslavia spontaneously,
regardless of, or even in spite of,
the Communist vanguard. (3)
The class-struggle in Yugoslavia
has been brought to an end,
except that despotic officials
sometimes re-create it artificially.
(4) The chief enemy in Yugo-
slavia today is not the
bourgeoisie but the Communist
bureaucrat, not capitalism but
bureaucratic despotism. (5) Com-
munist bureaucrats wield a
monopoly of power, trample on
the law and prevent freedom of
expression, which is essential for
progress. (6) The only way to
avoid developing further into
Stalinist bureaucracy is by per-
mitting greater democracy.
(7) The goals for which Yugoslav
Communists should strive are
democracy and Socialism —not
Communism. (8) To achieve
democracy the Communist
League must be completely
reorganised, with discipline
greatly relaxed. (9) Leninism—
and not only Stalinism —contains
within itself the seeds of
despotism.”
Some of these ideas were
heretical enough, by the
standards of Marxist orthodoxy.
Typical example is Djilas on
freedom of ideas. All new ideas
must have free expression
because “no one can know in
advance which new idea is the
progressive one”: “The first
task is to make sure that no one
be persecuted because of his
ideas.”
For a long time no one in
authority “woke up” to what
Djilas was about. It is almost
too good to be true —like a
satire on Communism. Tito
himself admitted that some time
in autumn, 1953, Djilas asked
him what he thought of the
articles, and he said that,
although he didn’t agree with
everything in them, the good out-
weighed the bad and the articles
should be continued.
Kardelj became suspicious


Swiss
WATCHES
FOR EVERY MEMBER
OF THE FAMILY...
5 YEAR GUARANTEE
HI"""/
<>■
CHROME
...tS'tO-
ROILED GOLD
... ftO'JO'
iChrome mesh
\band 15/- extra
[Rolled gold band
extra
17-jewelled lever water-protected anti-
magnetic watch in gleaming plated
case. Stainless steel back. Shock-
proof, luminous sweep second cali-
brated to 1/sth second. Pigskin strap.
15-jewclled lever. First quality, very
•mart. Full Arabic raised gilt figures.
Black eordette band.
CHROME
... £6
'A dream, watch for every schoolgirl.
$5 jewels, easily readable figures.
Assorted dial colours, leather strap.
*very schoolboy's heart is set on this.
i e ’ re N*d either raised gilt or
fumhibus figures. The counterpart of
maid's watch above. Chrome,
stainless steel back, leather band .
Diamond Eternity Rings
• A\Xs.
7-stone 18-ct. ring with an assortment
of ends ond carved shonlcs.
Yellow gold £lB/0/0
White gold. £lB/10/0
5-stone 18-ct. ring, each stone in-
dividually clow-set.
Yellow gold £22/10/0
White gold.. £23/10/0
Write us for all types of wotches, rings
°"d jewellery
MERCURY MAIL ORDER
PTY.LTD.
710 George St., Sydney.
All prices include registered post, but
Cut out this odvt., mark the items you
wont, attach p. n „ m .o„ or cheque, or
order C.O.D. and post NOW.
NAME
ADDRESS
SIEEPuI
DRY HU
VIUMUII
HIGH POTENCY
B
MASS
TRADE
-easily given by drench is the
most economical, accurate
and convenient method of
supplying vitamins A & D
Sheep subjected to dry feeding are liable to suffer vitamin .A
deficiency. Vitamin A is essential for top fertility, good
condition generally, and the healthy growth and development
in young stock. One gallon of High Potency 'VETEMUL'
(£13.13.0) is sufficient for one dose each to 220 sheep
(rams, ewes or weaners) or 320 lambs—only 1 /3d. each for
sheep or lOd. each for lambs. Each dose supplies total vita-
min A requirements for 3 MONTHS. High Potency 'VETE-
MUL' contains 25,000 i.u. vitamin A and 2,500 i.u. vitamin
D per gramme.
High Potency 'VETEMUL' is obtainable from your Pastoral
House or usual Station Supplier. Write for brochure ( B. )
for full information.
'Pij ' h M
AGRICULTURAL & VETERINARY DIVISION
37 Swanston St., Mclb. Branches in all Staffs.
first. He said something to
Djilas privately, and Djilas
(according to Kardelj) came out
with some plain statements.
Among others, that Tito was
defending bureaucracy, and that
fie, Djilas, would sooner or later
have to fight it out with him.
While Kardelj and a few others
were whispering, the public
accepted what Djilas was writing
as the orthodox party-line. But
Djilas became bolder, and wrote
articles which left little room
for doubt.
Hammond continues: “The
party leadership was now in a
quandary. To permit Djilas to
continue publishing his heresies
would add further to the con-
fusion which reigned throughout
the ranks of Communists.
Kardelj and Rankovic spoke to
Djilas in the early days of
January [1954] and tried to bring
him into line. Tito was in
Slovenia. What to do? To
silence Djilas would reveal to
the world the existence of split
at the very apex of the sup-
posedly monolithic Communist
League.”
It became clear that Djilas
would be disciplined. But, in
the meantime, Djilas secretly
prepared and turned over to the
printer a lengthy article, “The
Anatomy of Morals,” which
appeared on the streets in the
January issue of “Nova Misao,”
one of the top theoretical
magazines, and was promptly
bought up by the public before
the Communist leaders Jcnew
anything about it: a “most
devastating satire of top Com-
munist society.”
Djilas’s piece of “political
pornography” (as the victims
described it) was a frontal attack
on the very officials who would
try his case. “It was,” Hammond
comments, “as though Djilas, in
a final mad gesture, tried to rob
himself of any support he may
previously have had among the
members of the Central
Committee.”
Djilas was put on trial at the
Third Plenum, with unusual
extras; proceedings were fully
reported in the press and many
of the speeches were broadcast
over the radio. The main
prosecutors were Tito and
Kardelj, with other speakers
mostly repeating the same points.
Tito made it clear that Djilas’s
main sin was his call for liquida-
tion of the Communist League.
But, in passing, Tito admitted
that he himself had been the
first to speak of the “withering-
away of the party.” The differ-
ence, apparently, between
orthodoxy and heresy was the
time involved.
Since Djilas had written with
optimism about the acceptance
of Socialism by the majority of
the people, his accusers found
themselves in the awkward posi-
tion of having to argue that most
of the population were not
behind the Government. And
there were other embarrassments.
The only one to take Djilas’s
side was Vladimir Dedijer, a
member of the Central Com-
mittee, who was singularly
outspoken:
“I am no robot to accept a
matter immediately because of
the authority of the man who
said it A week ago Djilas's
postulates in ‘Borba’ were more-
or-less adopted by most of us
sitting here, then, all of a sudden,
the Executive Committee made
an announcement that it dis-
agreed with the articles, and all
at once the very people who
approved are attacking Milovan
Djilas fiercely How can we
think one thing today and all of
a sudden change our opinion
overnight?”
How, indeed? Djilas was
expelled from the Central
Committee, relieved of all
functions in the Communist
League and reprimanded. But
he didn’t go to prison.
Then, while Tito was visiting
Burma and India, the affair
exploded again. The former
Yugoslav Ambassador, in his
letter to the “New York Times,”
seems to think the timing was
deliberate:
“It is hardly conceivable that
Kardelj and his friends would
have raised such an important
issue in Tito’s absence without
his approval. There are reasons
to believe that Tito gave the
green-light to the Central Com-
mittee to settle the case in his
absence, in order to avoid
personal involvement and thus
preserve an attitude of aloofness
from such quarrels. At the same
time he would not be accused of
being associated with the per-
secution of those accused for
their Western sympathies.”
London “Economist” holds
the contrary opinion, that the
Yugoslav leaders were “caught
out” by a combination of bad
luck and bad timing. “It was
bad luck that Mr. Dedijer was
not available in Belgrade when
originally summoned before the
party control commission before
Marshal Tito set out for India;
and it was a bad miscalculation,
although perhaps a very under-
standable one, to imagine that
Mr. Dedijer would submit tamely
to party discipline.”
This time the trial was in
camera. Dedijer and Djilas were
accused of criticising the regime
to foreign newspapermen.
Sentences were 18 months for
Djilas, six for Dedijer. The
Yugoslav press gave only the
briefest mention of the trial, and,
as “Time and Tide” comments,
even the penalties both
suspended—seem designed to
play down the importance of the
case, in which the U.K. press, in
particular, has taken a lively
interest.
A number of U.K. papers—
“ Economist,” “Time and Tide,”
“Scotsman,” “Daily Telegraph,”
“Time” —commented favorably
on the “mildness of the
sentences.”
Various Voices
Georg Schwarzenb er ger
(Reader in International Law,
London University): “What is
clear is that General Chiang
Kai-shek exercises only a dele-
gated authority in Formosa. It
is exercised by him on behalf of
those parties to the peace treaty
of San Francisco who recog-
nise his Government either as
that of China or at least in rela-
tion to Formosa. These States
are free agents to decide collec-
tively on the future of this terri-
tory outside the United Nations
or, with the consent of the latter,
to transfer their condominium
to the United Nations.”
Member of the Commons,
R. T. Paget: “Formosa since
1945 has been Chinese, but this
leaves the real question: which
China? I believe' that the
answer in international law is as
follows: The Chinese civil war
has resulted in the creation of a
new State, Communist China,
and has left .in being an old
State, Nationalist China. Both
these States are firmly in control
of different parts of pre-civil-
war China, and both give the
appearance of permanent estab-
lishment with their defined
areas, save only for the coastal
islands, which, their future still
being unsettled, should not in
law be recognised as the terri-
tory of either.”
U.S. Senator Knowland: “On
November 15 of last year I
pointed out the danger of a
coexistence policy which might
lead the Communist world into
open nibbling. The first nibble
has taken place, and a series of
small nibbles will amount to a
large one.”
President Eisenhower: “We
know, let us say, that the people
of a certain country are sus-
picious of our [U.S.] motives,
when we know those motives to
be good—or are so ignorant of
what we are trying to do in the
world that our efforts to help
are translated into efforts to
dominate. Now, unless we make
the effort —and I mean the effort
right down to the grassroots-
level of our country —to under-
stand something of the culture
of that country, of its history,
its aspirations, the tribulations
and trials through which that
people may have passed; unless
we understand that, we will
never comprehend why our
motives are misunderstood.”
German Chancellor
Adenauer: “The dangerous
twilight in which Soviet policy
operates is indicated by the
Soviet assertion that there was
no substance at all in the refer-
ence in the Note of the Western
Powers of September 10, 1954,
to the existence of a heavily
armed Soviet grouping in
Eastern Europe because —to
quote verbatim —‘in reality no
grouping of this kind exists.’ ”
Adenauer, further: “Unity,
patience and strength are the
primary virtues which the free
world requires if it wishes to
secure and keep peace and free-
dom. As the new partner of the
Western Community, Germany
will show patience and modera-
tion and will devote her energies
to the strengthening of the free
world.”
Lord Ismay (Nato Secretary-
General ): “When the Foreign
Ministers met in Washington to
sign the North Atlantic Treaty
they started an experiment in
international relations unprece-
dented in peace-time. Is it
going too far to claim that if
any comparable arrangement
had existed in 1914 or 1939 the
history of the 20th century
would have taken another
course, and the world would
have been spared the carnage
and waste of two World Wars?”


They have all had the same
symptoms heavy cold for
months on end, gradually turn-
ing into the recognised signs of
asthma.
But there has been this differ-
ence: adrenalin, which some-
times works wonders with
normal asthma, was found to
have lost its punch in the
Yokohama cases.
Scientists traced the complaint
to smog. Some of them reported
that by merely smelling the air
of late afternoon they could
make a shrewd guess on how
many patients would come in
gasping for treatment that night.
In a recent report a British
committee on air-pollution
made proposals aimed at reduc-
ing pollution by four-fifths in
10 to 15 years in thickly
populated areas.
It estimated that pollution
cost England £250 million a
year, apart from the waste of
fuel it indicated.
It recommended that the
emission of dark smoke from
any chimney should, with limited
exceptions, be forbidden by law.
Local authorities should have
power to establish smokeless
zones, in which emission of
smoke would be forbidden from
any chimney, and larger smoke-
control areas, in which use of
bituminous coal for industry
and household would be
restricted.
It urged that local councils
and the Government should
help householders pay for any
appliances needed to cut their
smoke in the smokeless areas.
The Government should grant
£l5 million for this in the first
five years.
It pointed out that nearly half
the smoke in the air came from
domestic chimneys, and urged
new types of stoves and open
fires.
“Any real cure for domestic
smoke must mean replacing
house-coal by smokeless fuel,
including gas and electricity,” it
found.
To help the industrialist, it
urged income-tax deductions for
any equipment used to lessen
smoke.
Excessive smoke from railway-
engines should be made a matter
for legal action.
An existing law dealing with
excessive motor-vehicle exhaust-
fumes should be enforced.
The Door
by John
Mozzison
I GOT in at Mentone.
Just as the porter was
about to close the gate a
woman dressed all in brown
hurried across the platform,
flung herself in right on my
heels, and sat down without
closing the door.
. A tidy little man with a face
rather like that of Lionel
Barrymore, the film actor, who
was sitting in the corner-seat,
closed it for her. But he made
the mistake of hesitating, and
looking at her first without
smiling. She took it as a
reprimand and was still staring
at him when he had the door
closed.
He knew she was staring, and
tried hard not to look back at
her. But she was determined,
and when at length his furtive
glance met hers she was satisfied,
looked at me to see if I’d
observed how she’d put him in
his place, transferred her
attention to the woman, presum-
ably his wife, who sat next to
him —and relaxed.
By this time the man’s wife
herself was doing a bit of
staring, so that quite an atmos-
phere had developed before the
train had properly gathered
speed.
I, too, was being stared at.
I’d taken an offside corner-seat,
opposite another working - man
like myself, but some years
younger. His hat was pushed
casually to the back of Iris head,
revealing the pale sweeping brow
of a face that would have earned
him the nickname of Moonface,
perhaps Monkey - face, in the
school I went to. A good-
natured face.
I knew instantly that he’d
missed nothing of the comedy
going on at the other side of
the compartment. But I knew
just as surely, from his fuddled
eyes and drooping lower lip,
that he had drink in. I therefore
suppressed an impulse to wink,
and occupied myself in filling
my pipe.
Every now and then I slyly
raised my eyes. Moonface was
sitting right on the edge of his
seat, anything but, relaxed, and
manifestly ready to talk if I gave
an opening. When he wasn’t
looking at me he was staring
with offensive deliberation at
the image of Barrymore.
Barrymore, pretending he didn’t
know it, was looking out
through the window as if
the train were passing
through central Africa. Mrs.
Barrymore and Mrs. Brown,
facing each other, were sitting
bolt upright and poker-faced,
ready to go at the drop of a
hat.
CO, in what might be called an
explosive silence, we reached
Cheltenham, where three school-
boys got in.
They got in the way school-
boys usually get into a train,
pouncing on us before we had
quite stopped, dragging open
the door by a concerted all-
hands effort, and tumbling in
in a panting, struggling heap as
if it were the first train-ride
they’d had in their lives.
Two of them flopped noisily
into the space between Mrs.
Barrymore and me. The third,
and biggest, hung precariously
out of the doorway as the train
started again, yelling like a
Red Indian at some mates in the
doorway of a carriage further
back.
Mr. Barrymore, who had
shrunk tight-lipped into his
corner at the invasion, pulled
himself together, took on a stern
expression, and went to seize the
door-handle. But the boy caught
the movement, gave him a
bright smile, and promptly
closed the door —with a bang.
Mr. Barrymore flinched, but his
outraged upward stare was
wasted, for the boy was already
lurching across the compartment
to the vacant seat alongside
Moonface.
Moonface, who had been
fairly beaming on the boys next
to me, welcomed him with a
hearty slap on the shoulders.
“How’re you going, son?”
“I’m all right,” replied the
boy. Then, just to keep the fun
going, he kicked one of his mates
on the shin. “Pin-head’s on.
We’ll get him when he gets
off”
This started a lively three-
cornered discussion of some
school feud that lasted all the
way to Highett:
“Mutt’s with him”
“Mutt gets off next stop”
“No, he doesn’t. They’re up
at Ormond now”
“What about it? We’ve got
Cockles. Cripes! See Cockles’
lip?”
“Is he hostile! I saw Fraser
put the boot in”
All five of us were listening
to them, but they were as
indifferent to us as romping
animals.
Moonface was dwelling on
every word with gaping mouth
and laughing eyes. Mrs. Brown
looked from one to another of
them with indulgent and
experienced detachment; I’d
have said she’d reared boys of
her own. Mrs. Barrymore, eyes
fixed on the handbag in Mrs.
Brown’s lap, had frozen her
features as if someone were
telling a dirty story. Barrymore,
still nursing a grievance over
the banging of the door, con-
centrated, furiously on the big
fellow.
A T Highett the big boy jumped
up, flung open the door,
yelled at the top of his lungs
all the time the train was
standing, then closed the door—
with another bang and
staggered back to his seat
roaring with laughter.
“Wouldn’t it slay you!” he
bawled, oblivious that Barry-
more had collapsed into his
corner again. “Gutser’s in the
next carriage to ’em!”
“What!”
“And they don’t know it!
They think”
“Oh, you beaut!”
“Gutser! ”
And the two boys next to me
threw their arms around each
other’s necks and almost rolled
on to the floor in an ecstasy of
delight.
Mrs. Barrymore edged fear-
fully away from them. Mr.
Barrymore leaned outwards
ready to offer protection. But
Moonface, refusing to be kept
out of the fun any longer, gave
the big boy another great slap
on the back.
“Good old Gutser! You’ll
be all right now, son, eh?”
“Too right we will! ”
“You can get stuck right into
’em, eh?”
“Too right we can! ”
Barrymore was talking ex-
citedly to his wife. Over the
rattle of the wheels I heard:
barbarians! ....
wouldn’t do it at home....
It reached Moonface too,
although the boys seemed to miss
it. His head came up with a
jerk, his smile vanished, and he
directed a sustained angry stare
diagonally across the compart-
ment. I couldn’t tell whether
it connected or not, because,
the composition of the company
being what it was, I felt a
certain responsibility and didn’t
dare take my eyes off him.
When he did bring his attention
back to me I gave him the long-
delayed wink, pursed my lips,
and shook my head in a mute
appeal to him not to make an
issue of it.
“Spare me days, they’re only
boys!” he murmured in deep
disgust.
I nodded sympathetically.
Even that might have started
it, but when all three boys looked
at us inquiringly he melted
again and returned to the subject
of the imminent brawl:
“By cripes, wouldn’t I like to
see it! D’you want an umpire?”
“No, we don’t want an
umpire.”
“We’ve got it all sewn up”
“I know —you’ve got Gutser,
eh? Good old Gutser! I had
a dog called that once. He was
the greatest bloody
mongrel”——
I was all for him, and for
that very reason didn’t want to
see him put himself in the
wrong. So I slid my foot out
and gently nudged him, giving
him another friendly wink at
the same time.
“Don’t you worry about me,
mate” he began.
T»UT at that very moment the
train ran into Moorabbin
Station and the three youngsters
jumped up and headed for the
door.
They closed it after them, but
it was the biggest bang of all.
As a matter of fact it was two
bangs. They banged it open
and they banged it shut, and by
the time the second bang came
Barrymore looked as if he were
on the verge of an apoplectic
fit.
Moonface’s big, hand settled
over my knee. “Melbourne’s got
the best train-doors in the
world,” he said in a choking
whisper. “You can bang ’em
both ways.”
I smiled my agreement, then,
feeling that even this little
encouragement might be
dangerous, added conversa-
tionally: “A bit draughty,
though.”
He said something that was
drowned by the noise of the
train, but it wasn’t conciliatory.
And as if to make it clear to
me that he wasn’t too drunk to
know when he was being headed
off, he turned from me to face
Barrymore, who was leaning
forward so that he could see
past his wife to both of us at
the other side.
Mrs. Barrymore promptly
elbowed her husband back, and
he got talking again, still about
banging doors and badly
brought-up children. Mrs.
Brown studied them with
narrowed eyes and a little twist
to her lips that showed she was
on our side. The peevish plaint
of the man reached me in
snatches:
"... .my Dad.... .just as easy
to close it quietly... . used to
make us go back close it
quietly.. . .matter of discipline
....like wild animals....”
I began to wonder how long
the situation would take to
ripen after I got off at Ormond.
Moonface was gradually getting
worked up. He had just enough
drink in to be nicely uninhibited.
He kept looking at me in an
appealing way as if begging me
to let him go.
“Spare me days!” he said
once. “Wasn’t he ever young
himself? I used to like banging
doors when I was a kid.”
At Bentleigh Mrs. Brown got
off.
Barrymore opened the door
for her. I believe she had some-
thing in mind, because there
was irony in the smile she bent
on him as she passed out. On
the platform she tried to retrieve
the situation, but again he beat
her to it, seizing the handle a
split-second before she turned
round, and drawing the door
towards him firmly and
smoothly in an ostentatious
demonstration of how it ought
to be done. There was a closed
window between them, and the
train was on the point of starting,
and the odds were that they
would never see each other
again. So they let themselves
go. Mrs. Brown did everything
except put out her tongue. No
doubt Barrymore showed his
teeth.
“She was going to bang it!”
he exclaimed to his wife in a
voice shrill with indignation.
“I know she was.” She
sniffed, and gave me a defiant
stare. “I knew it the minute
she got up.”
I didn’t bat an eye. Moonface,
his good-humor partly restored
by the incident, startled me by
addressing himself directly to
Barrymore:
“I saw that too, Mister,” he
said with disarming sympathy.
“How far are you going?”
“Malvern,” replied Barry-
more. Then, with immediate
suspicion: “Why?”
“You’ll be all right, mate.
You won’t be long now.”
Moonface withdrew into his
corner, pulled out his tobacco,
and began to roll a cigarette.
Man and wife continued to
watch him, uneasily. He looked
as if he’d just thought of some-
thing rather good, and I wasn’t
at all surprised when, almost at
McKinnon, he leaned over and
confided to me in a gleeful
whisper:
“I get off at Glenhuntly! ”
TOOTHING happened at
McKinnon, but between
there and Ormond Barrymore
started again:
“....seem to be allowed to
do as they like.... .should teach
them at school wouldn’t do
it at home.... .just as easy to do
it quietly..”
Moonface looked across at
him occasionally, but without
any particular rancor. He
seemed to have lost interest in
me too. He had the air of a
man given over to contemplation
of some secret and beautiful
dream.
But at Ormond, when I rose
to get out, he suddenly came
to life. His smooth face lit up,
the years fell away from him.
His hand shot out and seized
my wrist, and I looked down
into the big eager eyes of a boy.
“Don’t squib it, mate!”
Well, I didn’t.
Only afterwards did I realise
how easy it is for even the most
disciplined of us to lose his
sense of proportion. But it had
become one of those occasions
when a man feels that the eyes
of the world are on him, and
that, rightly or wrongly, he has
to go through with it, if only
for the sake of his blessed self-
respect.
I banged it —both ways.
TV/TY own opinion is that they
were good bangs, and that
Moonface ought to have been
well pleased. But there is no
satisfying some people.
Apparently he chose to regard
my effort as a mere hors-
d’oeuvre. His own performance
made news ; I’ve just read about
it in the evening paper:
In Caulfield police-court this
morning Mr. Wandsworth,
J.P., delivered a stern warning
to persons who wantonly
destroy Railways property and
gratuitously annoy other
passengers.
He had just imposed a fine
of £5, with £4 10s. costs, on
Robert Nesbitt, of 25 Glade-
street, Glenhuntly, for deliber-
ately breaking the window of a
carriage-door on July 23.
Evidence was given by
Thomas Winton and his wife
Vera Winton that in alighting
at Glenhuntly Station Nesbitt
banged the door with such
violence that the window was
completely shattered. Winton
said that Nesbitt appeared to be
under the influence of drink.
Mr. Wandsworth said that
the Railways were the property
of the people, and he would
make it his business, whenever
such cases came before him, to
see that inoffensive travellers .


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
KIMBERLEY RESEARCH STATION
A NY estimate of the poten-
tialities of the North should
take into account work being
done at the Kimberley Research
Station, in the East Kimberley
district, north-east W.A. The
Northern Territory is just over
the border.
At present this country is
sparsely populated and under-
developed. But results so far
indicate that it is capable of
agricultural development and,
consequently, closer-settlement.
The research-station is jointly
financed by the Commonwealth
and by the W.A. Government.
Lying in the tropics, with a
summer rainfall of about 30in.
a year, this country is producing
beef on million-acre leasehold-
properties. The cattle are gener-
ally five years old before they
are delivered to the meatworks
at Wyndham, travelling overland
up to 400 miles. Conditions are
primitive and improvements few,
and from November to March
these stations become even more
isolated on account of the “wet.”
During these months a
AT KIMBERLEY: (a) SORGHUM
tremendous volume of water
passes down the Ord ; its water-
shed drains approximately
20,000 square miles of country.
But during the “dry” the river
becomes a series of pools. In a
flood the Ord River rose to 36ft.
at the Kimberley Research
Station, rising 7ft. 6in. in one
hour. This rise occurred from
rainfall on the watershed, no rain
being registered on the research-
station.
There is a natural dam-site
where the river passes through a
rocky gorge in the Carr Boyd
Range on Argyle Downs station.
By damming this gorge, 1,000,000
acre-feet of water could be
impounded. Test borings have
been carried out on the founda-
tions, and a gauging-station is
posted there during the “wet” to
record the state of the river, silt,
etc. It is considered that the
dam is practical and could be
built at a reasonable cost.
In 1944 a survey was com-
menced to investigate the possi-
bilities of the lower Ord River
valley as an irrigation-area.
This survey broadly covered an
expanse of 750,000 acres. The
main alluvial plain, embracing
some 86,000 acres, was covered
by a more detailed survey. From
this it was established that 56,000
acres—made up of 44,000 acres
of heavy-textured soils, such as
Cununurra-clay, and 12,000 acres
of light-textured levee-soils—
appeared potentially irrigable.
An additional area of about
125,000 acres, which appears to
warrant further survey, is being
examined.
Following on from the initial
survey, Kimberley Research
Station, situated about 60 miles
south-east of Wyndham, with an
area of 2000 acres, was estab-
lished on the bank of the Ord
River. Its objective is to carry
out agricultural research in the
district, to assess suitability of
soils for irrigation, and generally
to examine the possibilities of
establishing a stable system of
agriculture which would offer a
sound basis for settlement.
Irrigation on the research-
station is, at present,, being
carried out by means of water
pumped from the Ord, a per-
manent three-mile pool adjoin-
ing the station supplying ample
water for the present experi-
mental programme.
It was a case of virtually start-
ing from scratch, as condi-
tions in this area are not met
with in any other part of Aus-
tralia ; in fact, the only compar-
able circumstances are found in
the Sudan.
The work being carried out
covers trials of major crops suit-
able for world markets, the
irrigation of perennial pastures
for fattening cattle or dairying,
the growing of crops to provide
stock-feeds and to assist soil-
management and -improvement,
and the testing of introductions
which may prove valuable in the
development of the district.
The results of irrigated and
non-irrigated cropping and
“wet”- and ‘‘dry”-season plant-
ings are being compared. Time
and rate of planting is being
investigated, as are fertiliser- and
water-requirements.
Considerable data have been
obtained in experimental work
with grain-sorghum, cotton, sun-
flower, safflower, linseed,
peanuts, jute, kenafe and irri-
gated pastures. Sugarcane and
rice experiments have reached
the stage of planting in reason-
ably large areas. Varieties of
sugarcane obtained from Queens-
land have disclosed several well
suited to the Ord River area.
Yields of 45 to 50 tons have
been obtained from a 12-month
crop, and 30 tons from a first-
ratoon crop.
Cane harvested towards the
end of the dry season showed
1 ton of sugar from 6\ to 8 tons
of cane ; that harvested in May-
June required 8 to 9 tons of cane
for 1 ton of sugar. The present
area under sugarcane is about 18
acres and is being increased
yearly.
In the case of rice, 20 acres
are now under crop, and careful
selection of some hundreds of
varieties has been carried out.
On small-scale plots yields vary
in the different varieties from
\ ton to 2 tons per acre.
Wheat has been tried as a dry-
season crop under irrigation, and
an area of 2f acres last year
yielded 34 bushels per acre.
Grain-sorghum has produced
yields of over 2 tons per acre.
Yields from safflower, sun-
flower, cotton, jute, kenafe and
peanuts have also been satisfac-
tory and, if the area is opened-
up, should prove useful sidelines.
Experiments have disclosed that
the Cununurra-clay soil can be
satisfactorily irrigated, and that,
with the exception of wheat and
rice, furrow-irrigation appears to
be the best method of watering.
Application of superphosphate
appears to be necessary for all
crops, and nitrogen and potash
for some. The situation regard-
ing trace-elements is still being
investigated.
The area is covered with light
scrub, which is fairly easy to
clear, but the texture of the soil
has proved the necessity of using
heavy implements and, too, the
need for a wide study of the best
methods of tillage. Machinery
has to be rugged to stand up to
the work on heavy clay.
Insect-pests have been a
problem, but results so far with
dusting and spraying indicate
that the problem is not un-
beatable.
Another problem—birds, par-
ticularly on grain-crops. But
this, of course, is intensified by
the comparatively small area
under cultivation, which attracts
birds from dry areas around.
Soil-erosion is a danger which
has to be watched. It’s one of
the natural hazards of the Kim-
berleys under conditions prevail-
ing on the present cattle-holdings.
Today, in spite of setbacks,
steady progress has been made
with the experimental pro-
gramme, and it would seem that
rice and sugar will be the two
major crops.
The climate is, at times, very
trying, with sustained high tem-
peratures from 90 to 112 degrees
and periods of high humidity.
But the community of 30 whites,
including eight children, on the
research-station are happy and
healthy.
Practically all varieties of
vegetables grow well from April
to November: pawpaws,
bananas, mangoes and citrus-
fruits thrive. Termites are a
worry.
A herd of Iliawarra-Jersey-
cross cows supply milk, and fresh
eggs are available. Amenities
include electric-light, refrigera-
tors, a grass tennis-court and
ample water for domestic and
garden use. It is a restful sight,
especially during the “dry,” to
see the houses, designed for
tropical living, surrounded by
green lawns, shrubs, trees and
flowers.
Contact with Wyndham is over
a recently built all-weather road.
The research-station is on the
invaluable Flying Doctor tele-
radio network. Two planes a
week, one from Perth and one
from Alice Springs, normally
touch-down on the airstrip,
bringing the shopping-centre of
Perth much nearer.
The State Shipping Service
brings freights and passengers on
an average of about once a fort-
night to Wyndham, but shipping-
space for freight, at 112 s. 6d. a
ton, is limited. Air-freight is
normally 2s. 6d. a pound, but
during the “wet” the Government
subsidises perishables (fruit,
vegetables, etc.) and for this Bd.
a pound is charged.
Should the project prove
economically sound, I think we
can visualise, in the not-so-distant
future, the installation of the
dam an,d the opening-up of a
closer-settlement area.
Extra-Ord.
Zebu Fertility and
Longevity
In May, 1942, at Estangia
Garruchos [cattle-property in
Corrientes province, Argentina,
managed by the writer: runs
about 34,000 head] we received
from Texas (U.S.A.) a batch of
pedigree Zebus: a bull, and 10
maiden cows, all born in 1939
during the
months of
March to June
inclusive.
The bull
(named Rico
Mart) sired
over 40 calves
in one year. He
remained in
service until
October, T 953,
when we lost
him through
snakebite. He
was then 14|
years old.
All 10 cows
are still alive
and well and,
to date, have
dropped 90
calves in the
years 1943-1954
inclusive that
is, in 12 years.
Bear in mind
that in this
narrow strip of
territory,
wedged in be-
tween Paraguay
and Brazil,
fertility among cattle is not nor-
mally high. On these large
places it isn’t possible to keep a
check on individual cattle unless
(as is the case of the Zebus)
they are part of a specific pro-
ject. But we looked into the
fertility aspect recently, and
found that the trouble was
caused by “anoestrus” —that is,
failure of ovarian function after
calving; cows didn’t come back
on heat. And the reason for this
appears to be the climate.
A Hereford cow in Buenos
Aires province, for instance, is
normally back on heat 30 to 45
days after calving ; in Corrientes
province it might take from three
to six months.
So the results from the Zebus
are more significant than they
may at first sight appear.
One of these cows, Maurine
(No. 208), has done something
better-than-average —in fact,
close to the impossible—by
calving 12 times in the space of
12 years, her latest calf having
been born on October 23, 1954.
Three of the other cows have
each calved 11 times within the
same period.
The cows went into service for
(c) IRRIGATION FURROWS
the first time in 1942. Therefore
the yearly calvings have been:
1943 .... 10 1949 .... 9
1944 .... 9 1950 .... 3
1945 .... 6 1951 .... 8
1946 .... 9 1952 .... 6
1947 .... 9 1953 .... 6
1948 .... 12 1954 .... 3
It would be interesting to know
if Maurine’s performance is a
record. All these animals were
bought from Sartwell Brothers,
Palacios, Texas (U.S.A.).
F. H. Finch.
Watch Flock After
Rain
“Duddo”: A heavy, warm
rain in March would be great
for pastures, but it could cause
trouble in the flock if the sheep
don’t get proper care.
Cloudy weather after such a
(b) COTTON
rain could bring millions of
young internal parasites to life.
Be ready to drench with pheno-
thiazine, and follow-up with a
programme of phenothiazine or
bluestone-nicotine.
Such a rain could bring an
attack of facial eczema in
districts where it usually occurs.
The danger is greatest after a
long dry spell like the one which
began in early December.
Where facial eczema is likely,
shut the flock up and give the
sheep 21b. a head of good hay
daily. Be specially sure that the
nutrition of pregnant ewes does
not suffer.
Rape or any of its associated
plants, such as ’kale, turnips or
chou moellier —where available
—is a good safe crop for the
flock during danger-periods.
Land Education
“Jackpot”: The type of young
man “Morayda” is seeking for
Centralia (B. 2/2/’55) is being
regularly turned out, tailored to
measure, by our agricultural
colleges at Hawkesbury and
Wagga (N.S.W.), and, doubtless,
(Continued on next page)
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/8.
Send name and address with
postal note.


★ Simple to Erect
Useful for Many Purposes
★ Delivery 7 Days
Astoundingly Cheap
in
CM
CM
Cti
F.O.R.
SYDNEY
36ft x 16ft x 10ft
★ Aluminium Sheeting (cool inside)
★ Zinc-coated Steel Ribs
★ Cadmium-plated Fixings
★ Pre-cut Hardwood Purlins
Address enquiries to:
164 Phillip Street, Sydney, 8W6238;
your local Stock and Station Agent;
your Sydney Woolbroker.
Supplied by
IVORY & BARTON
BUILDING DIVISION
For Sale
TAIHOA, MT. IRVINE
ONE of the healthiest, most beautiful
spots in the Blue Mountains. Very quietly
situated 65 miles from Sydney. (Now
in use as a Guest House.) Beautiful
country home with solid woodwork in all
rooms: sewered. Abundant spring water.
Separate cottage (now in use as a
children’s holiday resort) and 54 acres
of fertile volcanic soil, with avenues of
walnuts, chestnuts, poplars, suitable fat
lambs’ nursery, apples. Or will sell with
10 acres. Price £15,000. Terms may
be arranged. Apply H. HAMILTON
MOORE & CO., Solicitors, 7 Wynyard
Street, Sydney. BX 3144.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOBS A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivators, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illus-
trated is the
"FARMERS
BOY”
CUTTER-
BAR.
Write or telephone
pour nearest State
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazeos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. S. Aust.:
A. M. Johnson & Sons Ltd., 200-204
Grenfell St., Adelaide. W 1495 & 1824.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St.. Sydney.
by similar institutions in other
States.
As well as the fundamentals of
agriculture and stock-raising,
they do a bookkeeping course
equivalent to Stage I
Accountancy, have a good
grounding in surveying and
levelling, carpentry, blacksmith-
ing and saddlery-work, and take
courses of botany, entomology
and veterinary-science.
What is probably most
important of all, they have been
taught to take responsibility, to
think and to ask questions. They
are, in fact, first-class material
for further training in any
specialised branch of rural
activity. When they get their
diplomas, they are no more
qualified to manage a cattle-
station or orchard than a new
science-graduate is fitted to take
charge of a research-laboratory,
nor do they pretend to be. It is
up to an employer to recognise
this, and to realise that at the
end of 12 months any one of
them will be just as good or bad
as he (the employer) has made
him.
The material is better-than-
average to start with. A young
fellow is hardly likely to take
such a course without an original
interest in the land, and, before
he finishes it, his keenness has
been tested by a carefully
devised blending of practical and
theoretical work. And so has his
intelligence.
Not all holders of Hawkesbury
diplomas go on to farm- or
station-management. Some take
up specialised jobs in Govern-
ment departments or with private
concerns, others may find they
have a particular interest in some
aspect of study already touched
on, and subsequently take a
degree in veterinary- or agricul-
tural-science at the university.
Others may take over family
properties.
But, important and necessary
as these specialised jobs may be,
and valuable as it certainly is
for a practical man to have a
son on hand who has had the
benefit of such an education,
there are a fair number of lads
who fall into neither category.
This, so to speak, medium
category seems to me to be a
very important one.
“Morayda’s” scheme for train-
ing young men for station-work
in the North by a sort of pool-
ing of instructional facilities by
station-owners [originally put
forward by J. H. Driver, owner
of Elkedra station, NX] seems
fair enough, up to a point. But
if the youngsters come raw to
the job they will still have to
learn stock-work the hard way
in stockyards and cattle-camps.
My point is that more and better
use could be made of the young
men who have had a basic
training.
I have employed a number of
these ex-students of agricultural
colleges at various times, all of
whom proved highly satisfactory.
Silage from Pasture
“Con”: “Egg” (B. 26/l/’55)
doesn’t seem too keen on the
conservation, as silage, of a
flush of the spring growth which
occurs in most pastures. Too
close, he argues, to the tradition
of pulling the peak off produc-
tion to fill-in the trough of feed-
shortage.
He therefore suggests other
“Put it into reverse, Mum!”
approaches or means of obtain-
ing green-feed for the latter
period.
Some of these means will
undoubtedly be advantageous
under certain conditions, and
Would be desirable (where neces-
sary) in addition to silage
obtained from surplus spring-
feed.
The point about such surplus
spring-feed is that if it is not
used as silage or hay it is
largely wasted. It should not be
allowed to grow on, unused, as
a reserve for summer feed ; it
loses most of its high nutritive-
value in that way.
Even the very efficient and
practical breeders of pasture-
plants in New Zealand have not
raised any superior summer-
growing red-clover. The late-
maturing Montgomery red-cloyer
grown in that country is an intro-
duced late-maturing English
regional type which adapted
itself to a certain habitat over
many years.
Silage - making with the
mechanisation (even one-man
equipment) available today is a
very different job from the old
style, and, as something should
be done to prevent the excellent
spring flush of pasture from
largely wasting, it’s a good idea
to make silage of the surplus
before going to the trouble of
growing additional feed.
Nothing wrong with getting as
much feed as possible per acre
from the pasture, of course. But
as for the danger of loss from
trampling, dung, etc., the new
technique of controlled grazing,
with electric-fences, should take
care of that. Smear-harrows
will spread the dung.
It’s an essential part of such
management to allow suitable
periods for regrowth, but there
has to be a balance between the
necessary storage of reserve
food-material in the root-system
(provided by the regrowth during
spelling) and the nutritive value
of this regrowth.
Much loss in nutritive value
can occur from too long a
period of regrowth, and there is
much danger attached to eating
the feed right , out in some
species.
New Zealand is certainly
ahead of Australia in many
aspects of pasture-management
and -utilisation, but N.Z. pasture-
specialists stress the need and
desirability of conserving at least
the spring surplus as silage.
Engine Temperature
“Angip”: Running a tractor
or any other engine too cold
doesn’t cause the quick engine-
failure that overheating does, but
it can be just as expensive.
Lower temperatures than those
recommended usually 165-
185 deg. F. for petrol-burners or
more than 190 deg. lor those
which use a heavier oil —cause
excessive wear, high fuel-
consumption and lower power-
output. *
In addition to getting more
horsepower per gallon of fuel
and reducing engine-wear,
operating your engine at the
correct temperature keeps your
crankcase-oil hot.
This means that gases blown
by the piston-rings during com-
bustion don’t have a chance to
condense and form cold sludge.
If you operate your engine at
low temperatures these gases
condense, cold sludge is formed
and you run into engine
difficulties.
Find out from your engine-
manual where your radiator-
shutters and/or thermostat are.
Make sure they operate properly.
Warm your engine thoroughly
before giving it a load and keep
it hot.
This will help you to save
money on fuel- and repair-bills.
A 60-hour test proved that cold-
motor operation causes 400 per
cent, more wear, needs 33 per
cent, more fuel and reduces
power by about 12 per cent,
compared with correct-
temperature operation.
Molybdenum and
2 Copper
“M.D.”: Since the discovery
in recent years that some soils
in N.S.W. have a deficiency of
molybdenum (which adversely
affects the growth of some crops
and pastures, particularly cauli-
flowers), fertiliser firms have put
out a special molybdenised
super., containing about 1 per
cent, molybdenum.
Vegetable-growers in the
Sydney metropolitan area, many
of them Southern Europeans
with little knowledge of the
chemistry of farming, are plaster-
ing their soil with the “new
fertiliser.” The association of
ideas would be something as
follows: if molybdenised super,
can work wonders with “whip-
tail disease” of cauliflowers,
lashins of it should cure other
ills to which vegetation is heir.
Not many vegetables are fed
to stock these days, but it is
known that cattle can suffer
seriously from an excess of
molybdenum in their diet.
By a smart piece of research
it has been established that excess
of molybdenum causes a
deficiency of copper in the
animal’s metabolism, and this
deficiency has been corrected by
intravenous injection or oral
dosing with copper.
But what about the poor
human who gets an excess of
molybdenum in his vegetables?
Such an excessive content of
molybdenum can readily be
obtained on overlimed land) and
it is known that peas, at least,
readily acquire a molybdenum-
content toxic to humans.
Even if an excess of
molybdenum in the human diet
can cause anaemia through a
shortage of copper in the human
metabolism, it’s something to
worry about. The appropriate
authority should look into it.
Beet ( Pigs, Dairying
“Billjim”: N. A. M. Kjar, a
Tasmanian agricultural officer,
recommends growing fodder-
beets on dairyfarms, with pig-
raising as a strong sideline.
The practice is widespread in
the intensive systems of the U.K.
and N.Z. Kjar thinks there is
room for it in certain dairying
districts in Australia.
Fodder-beets —the result of a
cross between mangolds and
sugar-beets—do well on dairy-
ing properties where use can be
made of enriched pig-paddocks
to give high yields at low cost.
Also, the enforced absence of
pigs from the paddocks during
the fallowing and growing
periods is likely to reduce worm-
infestation.
As, under favorable Australian
conditions, beet matures five or
six months after sowing, it is
ready for harvest in the late
autumn; but has the added
advantage that it can be kept
in the ground over the winter if
conditions are not too wet.
In sowing, Kjar recommends
that the seed should not be mixed
with the fertiliser, as it tends to
separate out and this could lead
to patchy germination. Either
a hand-drill or grain-drill, using
the grain-box, recommended.
Seed should be sown with
21in. to 28in. between rows to
allow for inter-row cultivation,
with a mixed fertiliser of scwt.
super., l|cwt. to 2cwt. potash
and lcwt. to 2cwt. sulphate-of-
ammonia, according to the
fertility of the paddock. With
the use of pig-paddocks this
dressing can be considerably
reduced. Good crops can also be
expected from pasture-paddocks
and those previously .used for
potatoes or peas.
Three varieties recommended:
Pajbjerg Rex X, Pajbjerg
Kosroe X and Klein Wanzleben.
Costs worked out on a basis of
land-values in the Speck show
that the crop can be produced at
one-fifth of a penny per pound:
it has a food-value equal to that
of potatoes and one-sixth that of
cereal-grain on a weight-basis.
Swine-branding Act
“Pig-fancier”: This Act,
which came into force in N.S.W.
on January 1, requires the owner
to have his registered brand on
pigs before they are sold or sent
for slaughter.
Brands allotted will consist of
three characters letters or
numerals, or a combination of
both —and shall be not less than
iin. and not more than lin. in
height. Space between any two
letters not to exceed |in.
Compensation for pigs
condemned at abattoirs as unfit
for human consumption will not
be allowed unless the carcass
bears a registered brand.
Two exemptions —one in
respect of pigs under three
months, the other when not more
than three pigs are held. In the
latter case a Department of
Agriculture licence must be held.
Seaweed
“Coastal Cocky”: Not every-
thing is yet known of the
qualities of seaweed, but the pool
of knowledge so far accumulated
has established that it is valuable
as food for man and beast and
plant. Then, too, added to
the soil, it has a prime value
(apart from whatever minerals
it contains) as organic matter.
In the East it is a supple-
mentary food to the rice and


CRONULLA (By the Sea)
THE “WESTELLA”
h ? li^ a y “com. for 80 Guests. All
LTCENSFn C ni a MT d xTn n r e , r ' Sprung Mattresses.
SURE' TRIPS 1 m n ARTIES AND p LEA°
CRUISER P OWN LUXURY
WiUIbER. IDEAL FOR HONEYMOONS.
Write for f ree anf f post , rge
Illustrated Booklet. ■
KINGSWAY, CRONULLA,
LB 5922.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE...
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by NJ3.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. FTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
— 1 ' 1 DISTRIBUTORS ""
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Diet. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
THE
4
OVEN
AG A
Jtegd. Trade Mark
COOKER
has a special oven for
every cooking purpose:
ROASTING...
BAKING...
SIMMERING...
V and WARMING
i m
U A
fe
a 9ainsf
y *a
fault
»ori
*at e
mSf >sh;
r 'als
Built
<att
*Hfa
mt
Intel
r
This sparkling and spacious Cooker
enables you to cook everything at once:
roast a joint, bake a cake, simmer
sauces, heat soups, cook vegetables and
warm plates, all at the same time!
The Aga Model E has three hotplates,
too, in addition to the four automatic-
ally adjusted ovens. Meals are prepared
almost without attention. There is no
fuss, no bother with Aga, no waiting
for ovens to heat, no constant stoking!
Service is immediate, day and night,
for the Aga burns continuously. There
are no fires to light, no smoke, no
* The correct grade
of coke now in
ample supply.
fumes, and a rub-over with a clean,
damp cloth keeps the Aga's shining
vitreous enamel immaculate.
The Aga is the world’s most economi-
cal Cooker, too! Thermostatic control
ensures that no matter how much or
how long you cook, you cannot exceed
the modest maximum amount specified
by guarantee.
LEVIN & GO. LTD.
(Established in New Zealand in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for Aga Cooker
ZBO
and Bendix Home Washer
POST TO-DAY FOR A FREE LEAFLET
N. S. WALES: 51-57 Goulbnrn St., Sydney
VICTORIA: 432 Bourhe St., Melbourne
Q’LAND: Cnr. Margaret & Albert Sts., Brisbane
SOUTH AUST.: 113 Grenfell St., Adelaide
T’MANIA: A. G. Webster &, Sons Ltd., Hobart
West Anst. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth
Sole AGA Agents for W.A.
Learn ALL the facts
about AGA, including
the details of other
outstanding models.
NAME..
ADDRESS
fish. Experience during World
War I proved its value as a
fodder, after drying and removal
of the mineral content.
However, its potential value
as a fertiliser is of chief interest
to Australians. In Europe and
Japan it is widely used in agri-
culture, and more recently it has
been used for this purpose in
some parts of the U.S.A.
Absorbed by the soil more
easily than farmyard-manures
or artificial fertilisers, it rapidly
improves soil-quality. And it
can be dug-in fresh or after
fermenting for a year. Its
supreme advantage as a fertiliser
is that it suits all types of soil,
and is devoid of any parasite or
deleterious herb. The one dis-
advantage would appear to be its
weight and awkwardness to
handle: but in coastal districts
this should not be a serious
disadvantage.
Filing
“Ravno”: Keep old envelopes
of a uniform size for use in
filing articles on gardening, etc.
I have found those measuring
9in. by 4in. best for the purpose.
Label each envelope with the
name of its contents, arrange the
envelopes in alphabetical order,
and use a rubber-band to keep
them together.
The plan can be extended
indefinitely, and any particular
article you want to consult can
be found without delay.
My own interest is in garden-
ing: and I have found it the
best method of filing information
on the flowers and vegetables I
grow, the pests I have to deal
with, the use of fertilisers, etc.
But, of course, the system would
be equally useful for filing infor-
mation on animal-husbandry,
pasture-improvement, veterinary-
science and farm-mechanics.
Value of New Ground
“M.F.D.”: Any doubt I ever
had about the growing-value of
new ground against even the
best-worked and most heavily
fertilised plots has been dissi-
pated by recent experience.
Tomatoes planted in ground
that had produced excellent
cauliflowers did fairly well from
the outset and are now bearing
a medium crop of good fruit,
but they run a bad second to
the produce of a number of
plants put in poor, unworked
soil because there was no other
place for them.'
Ordinarily I wouldn’t have
expected weeds to grow in the
corner where I put these surplus
plants; it had never previously
been worked; and all the ferti-
liser I gave it was a small
quantity of poultry-manure
under each plant. Within a week
of planting they were a healthy
green, and continued to make
good progress right through,
despite only spasmodic watering
and the fact that a garage hid
them from the morning sun,
reputed to be essential to most
plants.
My other tomato-plants be-
came affected with tomato-mite,
but the “unwanteds” remained
healthy and vigorous and at the
moment are yielding a much
better crop than their more care-
fully tended fellows. I can only
assume that there are growing-
elements in new ground which
suit almost any plant; and that
even the generous use of ferti-
Users will not fully restore these
to soil which is being regularly
cropped. •
Another thing discovered is
that the claims made on behalf
of some sprays and pest-
exterminators are exaggerated.
They simply don’t do what is
claimed for them. I have, how-
ever, been able to keep the fruit-
fly at bay by using the mixture
recommended by the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture—
nicotine-sulphate, D.D.T., sugar
and water.
The golden rule in the use of
this spray is to apply it regu-
larly—at least every five days,
and oftener during wet weather.
Red-scale
“Rabgi”: Recommendations
for getting rid of red-scale from
citrus, from Rupert Johnston, a
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture entomologist:
Get a 100 per cent, cover for
a 100 per cent. kill.
Vary nozzle-size and -output
according to the skill and speed
of the sprayer. Choice of
nozzles, guns, rods and triggers
is largely a matter of personal
preference.
Don’t hold high-pressure
nozzles too close to the tree.
They press leaves together and
prevent total wetting.
Push the nozzle through three
different points around the tree,
to spray the inside thoroughly.
Spray the outside while mov-
ing between these points.
A tower over the trailer helps
a lot in spraying the tops of trees.
If you haven’t a trailer, hold a
high-pressure nozzle well back
from the tree, and let the mist
drift down.
Two summer white-oil sprays
are the cheapest way to control
red-scale.
One fumigation is the best
single method of control.
Two parathion sprays are as
good as two white-oil sprays—
but are much dearer.
A single parathion spray is
practically useless.
Parathion wettable powder is
more effective than parathion
emulsion.
Malathion—a new spray—is
reported to have done well in
the U.SA.
Crosscuts
Definition: “Many people do
not properly understand the
term ‘technology,’ associating it
with machines and with
secondary industry. Technology,
however, is defined by Fowler as
‘the science of the industrial
arts,’ and elsewhere as ‘the appli-
cation of science to industry,’ so
that wool - technology must
include both the application of
science to the wool-textile
industry and the application of
science to woolgrowing.”
(Professor P. R. McMahon,
School of Wool Technology,
Sydney,)
Frozen milk is now being
processed on a commercial scale
in the U.S. Thawed, and mixed
with two parts of water, it has
the same composition as fresh,
homogenised milk. Main
advantage is that frozen milk
may be stored in time of surplus,
used in time of scarcity. Anyone
with a fridge which will maintain
a freezing-temperature can buy
several weeks’ supply at a time.
Eventually it will cost less than
fresh milk.
* * *
“A.M.”: Four giant fans will
keep bovine aristocrats cool in
the beef-cattle pavilion at
Sydney’s Royal Easter Show this
year. Installation of louvred
windows, and the removal of all
dividing partitions, will also add
to ventilation and comfort, for
all concerned.
* * *
“A.C.T.”: Revised estimate
of Australian wheat for the
1954-55 season is 166.6 million
bushels —increase of 11.5 million
over the December estimate.
Good harvests bumped it up:
5.7 million in S.A., 4 million in
Vic., 1.5 million in N.S.W. Total
is still 31.4 million less than the
yield the previous season, and
estimated average yield of 15.9
bushels per acre is 2.5 bushels
less than the 1953-54 crop.
Farm Hints
“Kulwin”: When it can be
managed, bury dead sheep and
other animals in the citrus-grove.
Young trees do particularly well
if planted over interred stock —
roots reach down to the ample
store of nitrogen.
“C.A.A.”: Sowing onions
(one of the most nutritive of
vegetables) make sure of a weed-
free bed. Thrips may cause
trouble later spray with
nicotine-sulphate, one fluid-
ounce to sgal. water, plus a little
soap or lime to activate the
nicotine. H.E.T.P. and D.D.T.
are also good.
“8.K.”: Old saucepans and
tins used as drinkers in the fowl-
yard soon develop rust-holes.
Broken earthenware-pipes (often
available free from stores and
hardware merchants) make excel-
lent water-receptacles. Sink into
the earth with the flanged end
above the ground, partly fill with
cement, allow to dry, and you
have a permanent water-con-
tainer that can be easily flushed
when necessary by hose or
bucket.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
The season generally is conforming with the estimates,
and the heavy relief-rains which have just been experienced
in Victoria and South Australia were indicated on the Single
cycle, which would repeat the year 1919. In these circum-
stances further very heavy rains should fall in Victoria,
and particularly in Melbourne, between February 28 and
March 4.
Heavy rain would be due earlier than that in Sydney,
with a possibility that the South Coast (N.S.W.) would
receive heavy rains at the same time, and with good falls
also on the Hunter and Manning.
These rains would leave little doubt that the Single
cycle had become operative.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FEĹOW'S MIND
Our Lost Literature
Our literature is being forgotten
because it is unobtainable. Apart from
traditional pieces, of the thousands of
books published in this country in the
past 100 years so few have survived that
applicants to public libraries are sent to
owners of private collections, as the
library, too frequently, does not possess
a copy of the book required.
This calls for remedy. Normally one
could look to anthologists to help, but
most of them confine themselves to worn
favorites picked from other anthologies.
Yet 20 anthologies would cover most of
the worth-while stuff if they didn’t over-
lap and kept to their respective fields.
Collected editions of genuine classics
have been an urgent need from the time
Barron Field left the country.
It seems that the only way these will
ever be published will be by the forma-
tion of clubs of subscribers. Clubs of
this kind worked wonders in Scotland
last century, and in several cases are
still going strong, publishing inaccessible
historical and literary work. — John J.
Alderson (Vic.).
Australian Slang
The wife of the Australian High Com-
missioner (Lady White) is reported from
London as apologising for Australian
slang. She is quoted as saying that the
word “dinkum” is used “only by the
equivalent of your cockneys,” and was
a term which came into being during the
war but has since “died out.” Where
has the lady been all these years?
On the other hand English author
Nevil Shute is making a study of Aus-
tralian slang and, with a few blues here
and there in his earlier novels about this
country, doing a good job.
The fact is that we have a slanguage
very much our own, one which others
find almost impossible to ape.
The slang used by Americans and
British —the latter have rarely risen above
the rhyming slang in ideas or initiative
—is fairly easily grasped, and the movies
do a lot to popularise it.
But our particular brand is completely
baffling to non-Australians, hence, prob-
ably, the annoyance felt with it by the
uninitiated. Take the simple expression
“My oath,” and consider the ways in
which the novelist can use it to set your
teeth on edge. This term must have
puzzled Shute, as he has misused it fre-
quently. When inserted in the text as
an ordinary expletive, it becomes com-
pletely meaningless. Consider this:
“My oath,” he said quietly, “I believe
it will be raining by morning.”
Then compare it with genuine patter:
“D’y’ reckon it’ll rain?”
“My flamin’ oath it will!”
Or the seemingly perplexing “too
right.” This must have proved a madden-
ing phrase to the author struggling with
our idiom. He would know that it must
be introduced somewhere, and yet how?
What on earth did it mean?
Even the innocuous “reckon” is
ruthlessly thrust into line with all sorts
of strange bedfellows. Here the writer
“Here, sign this! I can see at a glance you have great talents."
must have felt on sure ground. Of course
he knew what “reckon” meant! I guess,
pardner—l reckon, stranger —and yet
what sad mishaps crop-up.
“Dinkum” sets traps for the unwary
inasmuch as it has a useful cobber
called “dinky-di,” and when dinkum is
used instead of dinky-di it grates.
Take “set.” I’m set, he’s set, you’re
set. The boss has me set. We set a
horse for the cup. If it wins we’re set.
Who’s “the gun”? So-and-so, however,
gunned him, or got him in the gun, or
got a set on him. With her, however,
we make a dead set at her. . . Wouldn’t
it!
I submit Shute as my trump. If a
man of his calibre thinks our slang is
worth writing about I’m satisfied it must
be.
Consider how it has survived, genera-
tion after generation, with added color,
while other slangs are by now forgotten,
even by those who first used them. My
own boyhood slang would be quite
incomprehensible to present youth, but
this was English slang which changes
shape with the years. I believe that our
Australian idiom is an enduring thing
deserving of encouragement. —R. H. G.
(W.A.).
Our First Sheep
In 1805 a questionnaire was directed to
principal flock-owners in the N.S.W.
settlement asking them, in general,
whether the introduction of “Spanish
sheep”—the word Merino is not used —
had improved their flocks. Question
No. 4, “What rams have you in your
flocks, and from whom and what country
did you obtain them?” was answered
with brevity by Capt. Thomas Rowley, of
Kingston Farm (then situated between
the present Newtown railway-station and
Parramatta-road): “My first ram was
from California, and my second two
Spanish rams from Captn. Waterhouse.”
The Californian ram referred to was
in all probability the one landed at
Sydney by the Daedalus in April, 1793.
This vessel was storeship to Vancouver’s
expedition, and while at Monterey in
the previous year had embarked six
bulls, six cows, six rams and six ewes,
a gift from the acting Spanish Governor,
Jose Arguello, to the new English settle-
ment here. Only one ram and three ewes
survived the voyage.
U.S. authorities state that these Cali-
fornian “Mission” sheep were descended
from Merino stock imported into Mexico
by the Spaniards from the time of Cortez
onwards, but during the intervening
years the strain became debased owing
to lack of care.
Hence, there may be running through
our flocks a thin thread of Merino strain
which stretches back to the days of
Mission California and beyond.—
Jonshaw (N.S.W.).
Simplified Spelling
By supporting simplified spelling the
Australian Teachers’ Federation is
advocating a long-overdue reform. To
bring it about would not be as difficult as
some think. It involves merely the
adoption of modem international spelling,
used by science wherever possible.
In simplified spelling there are no
silent vowels. They are usually given
the Italian pronunciation: “a” as in
“father,” “e” as the “a” in “mate,” “i”
as in “police,” “o” as in “oh,” “u” as in
“Luke,” and “y,” pronounced as “eye,”
is used only as a vowel.
When the vowel-sounds are long or
short they are indicated in grammars by
accentuation-signs which can be easily
memorised.
Among the consonants “k” replaces
hard “c,” “x” is used fairly frequently,
“s” replaces soft “c,” “j” replaces soft
“g” and “f” is used instead of “gh” in
words like “cough.”
English rittun thus luks kwir at furst,
but u sun get usd tu it. Write a sentence
“ Didn't you know it Was only an informal evening among ourselves ?"
thus and hand it to a foreigner who
can’t speak a word of our language;
when he reads it aloud you can at least
recognise the words. Foreign children
can learn to read and pronounce English
spelled this way with astonishing speed.
International spelling adopted for
everyday use saves an immense amount
of time and paper in typing, writing and
printing. This is brought home to anyone
who teaches natives, for then only
international spelling is used for the
native language.
A start could be made by adopting
the American “ax” for “axe,” “catalog,”
“thru” for “through,” etc.— Archaen
(S.A.).
Cheque Accounts
Advertisements appear in the press
extolling the benefits of conducting
cheque-accounts, with particular emphasis
on saving. But it costs money to conduct
the account and buy the cheque-book,
and, far worse, it gives easy access to
funds. The temptation to withdraw is
great, as the transaction (to many people)
merely represents a piece of paper until
the balance gives out.
These simple and easy facilities are
the downfall of many, whereas the hand-
ing-over of the cash to or withdrawal
from a Savings Bank, with the balance
right before the eye, acts as an incentive
to save and a deterrent to spending.—
C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Reclaiming the Desert
In prehistoric times the Sahara was a
tropical country so damp and green that
it harbored the hippopotamus, rhinoceros
and elephant. As its vegetation receded,
so did its fertility.
Yet the Sahara, like many another
desert, is still amazingly fertile, precisely
because there is so little rain to leach
away in floods the potash and other fer-
tilising material there. All it needs is
water and seed. Beneath the Sahara,
• resting on an impervious clay floor at
depths from 100 ft. to 1000 ft., is a sea
which, tapped by artesian bores, can pro-
vide the water. With such bores the
French have increased the Sahara oases
to 80,000 square miles. The whole Sahara
is larger than Europe and potentially
far richer; it is therefore one of man-
kind’s great hopes. And our so-called
“Dead Heart” could be another.
According to Richard St. Barbe Baker,
a Canadian expert now visiting Australia,
when a Sahara bore is put down, trees
are planted so that, as they grow, they
will control wind, modify the tempera-
ture, and thus establish a sub-climate.
After this, agriculture may be safely
pursued. Baker even claims that perman-
ent vegetation, by its transpiration, helps
ensure perpetuity of underground water,
A. J. Gray, for years superintendent
of a Forestry nursery at Wail (Vic.), has
long advocated planting trees, especially
Australian species that have proved their
suitability to conditions in any area.
Apart from their effect on wind-control
and erosion, trees, says Gray, make mar-
ginal areas safer for agriculture by their
modifying effect on temperature and
humidity. Trees can, in short, change
climate and push marginal areas further
and further back. Ample water, in this
improved climate, means, greater pro-
ductivity.
Great parts of the Sahara are no longer
even marginal land. Already, in the Lan-
don Garden at Biskra, it has been proved
that, in addition to dates, which “thrive
enormously,” the “desert” Sahara can
grow oranges, melons, grapes, olives,
apples, pomegranates, peaches, pears,
carrots, peas, beans, turnips, egg-plants,
onions, cucumbers, tomatoes, wheat, bar-
ley, sorghum, millet, tobacco and cotton;
all crops within Australia’s range. With
our artesian waters more fully exploited
our “Dead Heart” could surely do the
same.— Ymar (Vic.).
Compulsory Votes
Criticism by a Liberal politician that
individual freedom has suffered through
the introduction of compulsory voting
may be correct in principle, but seems
more than a little academic.
The threat of a minor fine is surely
nothing compared with the benefits con-
ferred. by the true picture of the
electorate’s views represented in polls of
the order of 96 per cent, of enrolments.
Compulsion has made little difference
to the political picture, but it has im-
pressed on the less-regimented sections
of the community the importance of the
democratic franchise.
In the U.S. during the last Presidential-
election year I found the executives of
both major parties regretful that some-
thing similar wasn’t in force there. The
same feeling was apparent in Britain,
where not only is there no compulsion
but the first-past-the-post system still
prevails, allowing mahy Socialists to be
elected on a vote far less than the com-
bined total for Conservative and Liberal
candidates. — Stromlo (F.C.T.).
Modem Art
Expressionism is the essence of
modern art, and reveals the artist’s feel-
ings, which arise from conditions within
his own society.
Latvian artists’ pictures exhibited in
Sydney are windows into the Latvian
world, telling of a “cold war” that
heralded disaster and the coming of
modern warfare to the homeland, with
physical and psychological calamity.
No greater contrast in pictures could
be imagined than those exhibited for
Australian art-prizes, now showing at the
National Gallery. These windows into
the Australian world tell of our happy,
sheltered existence. Sympathetic under-
standing from old citizens can help new
citizens to heal old scars and acquire
more serenity of style as they give of
their best in this free and friendly land.
—Adel’s (N.S.W.).


THE COMPLETE GOLFER
Edited by Herbert Warren Wind
A wonderful anthology, comprising outstanding short
stories and essays, humour, the history of the game,
great players and their theories.
At all booksellers 31/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
WINSTON SPENCER CHURCHILL
Servant of Crown and Commonwealth. To
celebrate his 80th birthday, this tribute to
the greatest statesman of the 20th Century
is written by many illustrious contemporaries,
and its first-hand impressions make it a
volume to be treasured. 15/6 (post 7d.)
WHITAKER’S ALMANAC, 1955
This complete and newest edition contains
a vast amount of new information and records
notable events of the past year. Index has
over 20,000 references. 25/3 (post 1/3)
F. R. GREEN’S GARDEN BOOK
Sydney “Daily Mirror’s” Garden Expert gives
some wonderful advice to the home gardener
about when and where to plant flowers,
vegetables and shrubs and tips for general
care of the garden. Ulus. 7/6 (post 3d.)
AND ALL THE TRUMPETS
by Donald Smith
“A memorable, humble account of great
suffering.” (Glasgow “Evening News.”) The
author’s record of four harrowing years as a
Japanese p.0.w., his great courage and
religious faith make this a deeply moving
book. 20/- (post 9d.)
Write , ’phone or call in for these , and all the books you want to . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 (astlereaffh Street, Sydney :: 69-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Booksellers are now taking orders for
Marguerite Steen
BULLS OF PARRAL, A magnificent new book that
surpasses even “The Sun is My Undoing.” Not since
Scarlett O’Hara has there been a heroine so memorable
in a novel so colourful. 18s. 9d.
To be published early March
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
its head, a band of cactus encased
the brow, a skull-necklace was
strung about its neck, snake-
amulets encircled the legs
and arms .... The idol was
crucified on its cross by giant pegs
of black chonta from which blood
dripped in partly dried c10t5.... it
was daily washed in blood taken
from the veins of worshippers
-...Every night the image was
offered slabs of raw tapir or deer-
meat. .. .To it, in the light of
torches, Indian maidens, stripped
naked, their nipples rouged with a
paste of achiote, offered (as in
ancient Greece) their “psychologi-
cal bodies” to the pleasure of
the image....
From here the explorers made a
break to see an Indian witch-doctor, in
the clan headquarters in a tree-
platform house, cure a man of deadly
snake-bite by sticking a wooden
needle dipped in a concoction of seeds,
bark and leaves deep into his jugular-
vein; prepare a bracelet-charm against
snakes; dose victims of malaria and
leprosy; mix a love-charm that
Colonel Clark tried himself and found
extremely potent; poison with strych-
nine a malformed baby; amputate a
warrior’s battle-damaged hand.
Back at the mission they bought
Indians as slaves and set off down the
Perene River on balsa-rafts for
Cupiropata. The story here might have
been taken over by Fenimore Cooper,
with unloading the rafts at rapids and
riding the empty rafts down the roar-
ing rapids of the swift river, and losing
their slaves by drowning or in
ambushes of hostile Indians, or being
caught up a tree on the river-bank by
an army of Indians and brought to a
pitched battle: —
Five warriors lay on the ground.
Black Hawk, the last of the Sutsiki
slaves, had a broken left arm, and
Jose’s right shoulder was laid open
for a foot, while Jorge and 1 were
cut and badly battered about head
and body.
A short stop at Padre Antony’s
mission at Cupiropata, and they are
off again down the Tambo, where
they are captured by Indians led by
the witch-doctor they saw perform out
from the Sutsiki mission, and might
have been killed and eaten, only they
escaped into the river reeds and, wait-
ing until the Indians ceased hunting
them, resumed their raft-journey. And
so they arrived at Atalaya, and took
ship on the Ucayali River in a 40ft.
mahogany dugout powered with an
old motor-car engine; but, after a few
days, the dugout “ferry” becoming full
of fever-patients, Colonel Clark de-
cided to carry his sick friend Jorge
ashore and take his chances with the
Chama Indians of those parts.
Then they took ship in the dugout
of some Indian hunters; and then, by
the side of this desolation, were wel-
comed into the fine house of some rich
“patrones” (squatters) in the middle
of “a million hectares of mahogany
and Spanish cedar.” From here they
paddled to Pucalpa; and here Jorge
learned of his brother’s death, and
departed to take over control of his
family’s fortunes; and Colonel Clark
flew in a Catalina to Iquitos.
At Iquitos he fell in with an Ameri-
can girl, Inez Pokorny, who insisted
on going with him up the Maranon
River, the last stage of the journey
towards Eldorado; and after many
efforts to charter a launch they were
taken part of the way by Baron yon
Wolfenegg, a dispossessed Austrian
aristocrat, who was in charge of Peru’s
colonisation-bases, in his launch. The
launch-engine failing with a defective
pump, the colonel and Inez took to
a canoe, with three Indian paddlers;
and at night Inez showed her mettle by
shooting a nacanaca snake which had
already bitten the colonel in the neck.
He should have been dead in four
minutes. But he came-to after four
days and nights, and Inez told him
the Indians had put some kind of
preparation over his face and saved
him. He was still partly blind from
venom, which they said must have
got into his eyes. There were more
upsets, culminating in a wreck in
which they lost all their belongings and
food; and then they fetched-up in the
clearing of a crocodile-hunter, from
which they were taken-off by the
captain of a river-boat and so to
Borja.
From here it was a matter of getting
up the Santiago River against the high-
running floods and against the orders
of the local army-chief, thought to
have designs on the old gold of those
regions himself; and so to the visiting
of those old, old Spanish cities of gold:
Santiago de las Montanes, San Fran-
cisco de Borja, Lengrono, Jaen de
Bracamoras, Bajadeloro and Zamora;
with San Rays still undiscovered. From
here it is a story of adventures with
Aguaranos and Jivaros, and bargain-
ing for gold, and burying two 101 b.
bamboos full of gold because the
colonel could no longer carry 501 b. of
gold on his back, and killing snakes
for food, and the mule carrying most
of the gold dying, and paying an
Indian four handfuls of gold for his
donkey, and killing a bear and loading
him on the donkey, and the donkey
dying, and the colonel struggling on,
in a temperature of 123 degrees
through, desert-country, abandoning
the bear and the remains of a haunch
of deer, and taking his gold bamboos
on his back again. All the time Inez
trudged with him, heels worn down,
leading on a leash two baby ocelots
the natives had given her, shirt
sticking to her back: —
“You’re crazy,” cried Inez.
“Leave the gold and take the
meat.”
But they made it, although the
colonel had to carry the ocelots in the
last stages, when they gave out; and
Inez is last seen leaving Quito, beauti-
fully dressed, carefully lipsticked, still
clinging to her wildcats, by air for
Panama and London.
Reviewed Briefly
Dialogues of Alfred North White-
head: Lucien Price (Reinhardt). Mr.
Price has set out to do for the Ameri-
can philosopher what Boswell did for
Johnson and Eckermann for Goethe —
to paint his portrait by recording his
conversation. The portrait is a little
too deferential to come explosively to
life as the others do —or perhaps
Whitehead’s, in old age, was a mild
personality—but the conversations are
excellently reported and, whether they
are all talking about the Greek drama,
criticising Einstein as “not final,” or
discussing Trollope, Jane Austen, Tol-
stoy, Synge, Darwin, Wagner or
Hitler, exceptionally interesting; and,
incidentally, provide a very effective
picture of cultured America.
* * * *
This Is on Me: Bob Hope (Shak-
speare Head). The comedian’s auto-
biography; a good companion-piece
for Bing Crosby’s, and very like it,
too: the typical American success-
story from singing in the streets and
plucking chickens for his brother’s
butcher-shop to hobnobbing with the
world’s celebrities and getting so
famous that a man offered him 10,000
dollars just to appear—not to perform
—at a private party in New York . . .
which Mr. Hope turned down, though
he did offer to ring the man up during
the party for 5000 dollars. The book
is brisk, businesslike, informative,
amazingly competent and assays about
20 wisecracks to every page.
» * * *
Flaubert’s Dictionary of Accepted
Ideas: Translated by Jacques Barzum
(Reinhardt). Flaubert made a list of
French cliches and platitudes (some-
thing like the word-books of A. P.
Herbert, Stuart Chase and others in
more recent times), also recording
popular habits of thought. For
instance, “Metaphysics. Laugh it to
scorn. Proof of your superior intel-
lect.” The booklet has always been
regarded as untranslatable, which
Professor Barzum took as a “chal-
lenge”; it remains, though, untranslat-
able.
* * * *
Repent Pan Books include The
Ringer, The Joker, The Clue of
the Silver Key, The Clue of the
Twisted Candle, by Edgar Wallace;
Open Verdict, by Richard Keverne;
Prelude to Space, by Arthur H.
Clarke, and From the City, From the
Plough, by Alexander Baron. Wal-
lace holds up well as a romantic
thriller-writer; time has added nos-
talgia to his writing, and he had the
verve of a born storyteller that many
better writers lack. Mr. Keverne’s
story of the young man who was the
last to see his murdered uncle at his
seaside bungalow is readable enough.
Mr. Clarke is former chairman of the
British Interplanetary Society; his book
is of preparations to launch a rocket
from Australia in 1978. Mr. Baron’s
book is the story of the training of the
sth Wessex Battalion for the Normandy
landing. The Pan Book reprints are
equal to the best in this kind, and are
distinguished by the glossiest covers in
English publishing.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 318
Across
I—Small1 —Small signs of festivity for whom
father went hunting a rabbitskin
degree by butting the baseball.
(4, 7)
B—Drier anger in the heart. (5)
9 and 12—Bobs behind a Polynesian
girl with Erin changing a quad-
ruped novelist. (4, 7,8)
11 — A place to coin a pastoral drama
by Tasso. (6)
12 — Efer train (anagram). (8)
14 — Eggs one line to balance on
another electrified particle’s out-
bursts of applause. (8)
15 — Employer forces the Queen to go
on to America. (4)
19 — Flat and regular nightfall for
poets. (4)
20 — Salutation to the fellow drinker
with the double chin. (4-4)
22 —A nanny-goat feature of Gothic
architecture? (8)
24 —Tax one with a Caledonia mould-
ing in building. (6)
26 — Subject which excites the censor
until Idriess’s figures appear. (11)
27 — A glee arranged by a golfing
achievement. (5)
28—These killers work out the total
casualties. (5-6)
Down
1 — Drop an explosive on alpha-
betical extremes in the east cloth.
(9)
2 Drug singer swallows a bee
measure of music with part two
halved. (9)
3 Clerical headgear makes S.A.
bitter. (8)
4 Captures a seaman between
north and south. (4)
5 Fag crushed grapes. (6)
6 Drop a theatrical entertainment.
(5)
7 Call up coppers on the Kon-
Tiki, for instance. (5)
10—Ruling chopped in ginger. (8)
13 —Car sets fire to nine. (5, 3)
16 — The manoeuvre by which Sol
scores a run, but not without
possible distress during the cricket
season. (9)
17 — Establishes new gradings about
150 quadrupeds. (9)
18 — Showed amusement when the
throw was ahead. (8)
21 — Levered a salary increase in the
police department. (6)
22 Ruth gets a half-century hubbub.
(5)
23 —To an expression of distaste, a
roughneck makes the hut go
wrong. (5)
25 —The quintessence is mine aspira-
tion. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 317


This entire page Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENI
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VtRTtTE LIMITED
RGRICULTURHL REUIS
February
feature
interested in Agriculture
1955
The Answer Is: “FASTER MILKING”
Exhaustive research has confirmed that on these factors depends increased production without increased stock
. . . healthy stock, quality of pasture, and most important of all, faster and more efficient milking.
Almost invariably, dairy cattle spend 8 hours
a day grazing, 12 hours ruminating and 4 hours
resting. It follows that time wasted in the shed
means a loss of grazing time and rest for the cow.
It is obvious, therefore, that, not only should
milking be carried out as carefully and quickly
as possible, but also that the milking machine be
of the most modem design and good mechanical
condition.
Much attention has been paid recently to
fodder conservation methods, but these efforts
are useless if the cow is not given sufficient grazing
time.
Here are some of the important features of
modern milking procedure:
• Avoid exciting or disturbing cows prior to
milking.
• Wash udder about 1 minute only before
milking. Many cows let down quickly, and
should not be left too long after stimulation.
<£ Stripping by machine rather than by hand
saves extra washing up and reduces danger of
mastitis.
© Remove teat-cups immediately milk ceases to
flow.
GROWING MARKET
FOR PROCESSED MILK
Condensed, concentrated and powdered milk
is gaining an increasing share of the export
market as compared with butter and cheese. The
,i—«...
m
■
111#
IlMkliii
Wm
mmm
ms
Wm
m- : ■■■#» ■
At left is a typical
layout of the Moffat•
Virtue Milking
Machine, which graphi-
cally illustrates the sim-
plicity of the machine.
Visible are the famous
My. “V 3” 2} h.p.
Petrol Engine, which
powers the machine,
also the Pulsator Con-
trol Assembly, Releaser,
Milk Cooler, etc.
production of butter has dropped in recent post-
war years by about 15% of total Dairy Products
production. Experts predict a vast future market
for dried milk products, which will easily absorb
the small surplus available for export, owing to
Australia’s own rapid population increase. Expert
opinion is that there will be a ready and increasing
market for processed milk products both locally
and overseas. This is provided an assured price
level can be guaranteed by long term agreements
sufficiently profitable to encourage the installation
of the highly expensive processing equipment.
Production can be increased without greatly in-
creased cattle numbers and use of grazing land. If
this is accomplished, thereby lowering costs of
production, the Dairying Industry will prosper as
it has never done before.
THESE LETTERS SPEAK
FOR THEMSELVES . . .
The many entirely unsolicited letters praising the MOFFAT - VIRTUE Milking Machine which
have been received by the firm are the best type of recommendation any product can receive . . .
the knowledge that they have been proved on the job!
Dear Sir,
“I have had considerable experience with
various makes of Milking Machines on other than
Stud herds.
“With my Stud Ayrshire herd care had to be
exercised in the selection of Machines, and, now
that Moffat-Virtue Machines were selected and
have been in use for three years, I feel it my duty
to have you acquainted with the highly satisfactory
results they have given.
“Proof of the ease with which your Machines
can be kept clean is borne out by my having
CHOICE on all occasions during the first twelve
months, the only exception being one can of First
Grade which was traced back to feed taint.”
(Signed) M. J. Brownlie, QUEENSLAND.
Dear Sir,
“I consider the Moffat-Virtue Engineers have
done more than any others to combine simplicity
with efficiency, and while you continue in this
direction you should have no trouble in maintain-
ing leadership in the Milking Machine field, and
so help the dairy farmer to eliminate drudgery
and bring his methods up to date.
“With reference to production as affected by
the installation of Machine Milking, I found that
although the herd had many new things to get
used to in the first week, the factory returns
showed an increase of 61b. of butter fat over the
last week of hand milking.” (Signed) Mr. A. E.
Barnett, Wingham, N.S.W.
Dear Sir,
“Anyone that I hear is going in for a Milking
plant I always tell them to come and work it for
themselves and they can see I am well satisfied
with the Machine myself.” (Signed) Mr. J.
Kimbler, Wagga, N.S.W.
Full particulars of the Moffat-Virtue Milking
Machine may be obtained from any of the State
Distributors listed below.
SIMPLICITY
PAYS BIG
DIVIDENDS
The MOFFAT - VIRTUE MILKING
MACHINE is different in design, operation, and
does away with cumbersome and complicated
gadgets which clutter many old-fashioned
machines. The simple Control Assembly ensures
a constant vacuum, and the visible milking
attachments show clearly just when milking is
completed.
PULS AT OR CONTROL
ASSEMBLY
The new-type Releaser has only three main
parts to clean, and can be dismantled for washing
up in 5 seconds.
The machine cuts down milking time,
improves efficiency, means less washing up and
easier maintenance. It is a machine which cannot
fail to repay its initial cost with savings made over
a short period.
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba, and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide ; Stockowners’ Shearing
Limited, Adelaide,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Perth,
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty.
Limited, Hobart and Launceston.
