

“HERE IS THE NEWS!” -page 27
/
m
e
Ith
SOLERO
SWEET OJR DRY
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 76—No. 3942
Wednesday, August 31, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
CHELSEA HOSPITAL, HOME OF
HONOURED PANSIONERS
'T'HE scarlet coat and distinctive headdress of
the Chelsea pensioner is a familiar sight
in London, but the story of the foundation of
the Royal Hospital, Chelsea, which is the home
of these old soldiers whose campaigns are over,
is not so well known.
The Hospital owes its foundation to
Charles 11, who felt some concern for the
welfare of his veteran soldiers. His son, the
Duke of Monmouth, on his return from Paris,
described the Hotel des Invalides in such
glowing terms that Charles determined to estab-
lish a similar scheme. The Treasury, however,
was reluctant to provide the necessary money,
and it only became possible through the efforts
of Sir Stephen Fox, a former Paymaster-
General. The site was selected by Sir Christo-
pher Wren, who also prepared the designs, and
the foundation-stone was laid by King
Charles II in 1682. Ten years later, after many
delays, the building was opened and it still
exists in its original form today, although addi-
tions were made by Robert Adam and by Sir
John Soane when more accommodation was
needed after the Napoleonic wars.
Today the pensioners number about 480, and
the men are selected for their excellent
character; they are boarded, clothed, nursed
when ill, and are provided with a weekly
allowance. The Hospital is run on military
lines instituted by Charles 11, but the pensioners
have few duties and are allowed leave of
absence whenever they choose.
The central part of the building, containing
the Hall and Chapel, has a Doric portico sur-
mounted by a small tower and cupola. A statue
of Charles II by Grinling Gibbons stands in
the middle of the Centre Court, which is
wreathed with oak leaves on Founder’s Day,
May 29.
On the Governor’s table in the Great Hall
stands an imposing row of huge leather jugs
known as “Black Jacks,” which were used to
bring up beer from the cellars to the dining-
table. All the fine tables and benches in the
Hall, and also the panelling in the Chapel,
were made of oak from Windsor Forest.
Above the altar in the Chapel is a remark-
able mosaic known as the “Star of Bethlehem.”
Each small piece of wood used in its composi-
tion was brought back from the Holy Land by
Crusaders and afterwards pieced together to
form this unique altar-piece.
During the Second World War the Hospital
was damaged by bombs on several occasions
and there were a number of casualties. In the
Chapel can be seen an oak chair made from a
bomb-damaged staircase, and this is reserved for
the reigning monarch when attending service
there.
No. 261: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A sendee for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
ALL ROUND AUSTRALIA
By Boat to Lake Eyre
There is something so pleasing in
the thought of dashing through the
Centralian desert in a boat and cruis-
ing around over dry salt-pans until you
are in danger of being shipwrecked, as
E. G. Bonython and H. G. Brooks did
in 1950 in a light bondwood dinghy
powered with a petrol engine, that it
is a pity that the story told in Lake
Eyre, South Australia; the Great
Flooding of 1949-50 should be confined
to the severe format of a brochure of
the South Australian branch of the
Royal Geographical Society.
Whether for the romantic attraction
of water appearing and disappearing in
remote hot places or for the apparently
even more romantic appeal of the
scheme of irrigating the Centre, pro-
posed by Dr. Bradfield and popularised
by lon Idriess, everybody has an
interest in Lake Eyre; and what this
brochure has to say, the report of the
committee which investigated the'area
after the 1949-50 floods, is as fascinat-
ing as it is important . . . even if it is
only to discover that Dr. Grenfell
Price in his introduction feels obliged
to throw some cold water on Dr.
Bradfield’s cold water: —
Unfortunately the researches which
the flood initiated only served to
confirm the utter impracticability of
such plans. Mr. Mason’s picture of
the highly intermittent seasonal and
variable rainfall and Mr. Bonython’s
work on evaporation portray clearly
the futility of the illusion that the
drainage to the “Dead Heart” offers
irrigation possibilities.
The enthusiasts for irrigation, if one
remembers rightly, suggested that the
permanent filling of the lake would
cause rain to fall, thereby making
the gibber-plains blossom like the
proverbial rose; but Mr. Bonython
reports: —
It is interesting to note that the
high evaporation had virtually no
effect on the climate of the surround-
ing country, for this was to suffer a
drought even while the lake evapor-
ated fast into the dry continental air.
The salinity rose and soon the larger
types of fish died and lay rotting on
the shores.
One rather more cheerful fact the
committee established (for it is pleasant
to have water in the desert, even if you
can’t have a garden) is that, correcting
some previous pessimistic opinions, the
lake is likely to be filled quite
regularly:—
Lake Eyre North has contained
water in six out of the last seven
years ; 1954 was the only year during
which it remained dry. It is clear
that the old idea that it was almost
always a dry salt-pan must go by
the board. No doubt there are long
periods when the lake remains dry
.... but in general it must be con-
cluded that there will be a moderate
covering of water in it every two or
three years.
According to reports in Adelaide
newspapers based on interviews with
Mr. Bonython, who has been prowl-
ing the desert again since the brochure
was published, the lake is, in fact, wet
at the moment; about one-eighth full,
and likely to be wetter if the Cooper
floodwaters do not evaporate too fast.
It “presents a beautiful picture, with
wildflowers in bloom in the sandhills
around it.”
One cannot, alas, altogether recom-
mend “Lake Eyre; the Great Flood-
ing” for general reading. It is essentially
a scientific paper, of great importance,
and the ordinary reader must be pre-
pared to face a very dry tabulation of
the wildflowers, some fearful informa-
tion about isohyets (what on earth is an
isohyet?) and even some equations in
what appears to be trigonometry. Yet,
by judicious skipping of what are no
doubt the most important parts, this
reviewer found it extremely readable;
and certainly it suggests that someone
with all this fresh information at his
disposal should write a book about the
lake for a more general audience.
At least an outline of the kind of
book that would be welcome is con-
tained in another recent brochure, by
Major E. T. Towner, Lake Eyre and
Its Tributaries (author; Kaloola,
Longreach, Q.), the text of an address
given to the Queensland branch of the
Royal Geographical Society. Major
Towner adds some personal observa-
tions to the material in the other book-
let. He was born at Glencoe Station,
near Blackall, on the Barcoo and has
“lived on the Barcoo ever since, except
when I have been away on Military
Duty, and have travelled over the Lake
Eyre catchment area extensively during
the last 50 years.”
Across the Nullarbor
Games-master in a plush-lined Eng-
lish school, Lennox Cook, author of
The World Before Us (Collins), was
entertaining one of the boys’ sisters at
a parents’ sherry-party when the father
asked him how much he whs getting,
mentioned that at his age he, the father,
had been lumberjacking in Canada, and
asked if he never got bored with
schoolteaching. Mr. Cook exploded in
the heat of the moment: “I’m giving it
up this term. I’m going round the
world on a motor-bike.”
Much to his own surprise, after he
had encountered the reluctance of
motor-bike manufacturers to stake him
and of other Englishmen to accompany
him, he found himself setting out on
February 12, 1951, from the Royal
Automobile Club on a Norton Denomi-
nator with a young farmer, Tim (who
was a bit shocked, on answering the
advertisement, to find that Mr. Cook
hadn’t taken his motor-cycle driving-
test yet), on a similar machine, bound
for France, Italy, Yugoslavia, Greece,
Turkey, Syria, Irak, Persia, Afghani-
stan, Pakistan, India, Ceylon, across
Australia from Perth to Sydney, New
Zealand, Vancouver, San Francisco,
New York and back to England.
In Persia, during the Abadan
troubles, they climbed secretly at night
to the top of 500,000-gallon reservoirs
to dip out enough petrol for their
cycles. In parts of Afghanistan marked
“unexplored” on the maps they
managed with difficulty to stave-off a
tribe who, a few months before, had
forced a Turkish motor-cyclist “to taxi
a small settlement, two at a time, to
the next village.” When Mr. Cook’s
handle-bar frame split in two 27 miles
from Lahore they stopped the first
truck to pass and found it was being
driven by the Lahore agents for the
cycles. At Bombay they stayed at a
high-class hotel where all the patrons
seemed to be on edge, shouting at
waiters, “My soup! I want my soup!”
and “I want my child’s food! You
damn’ well will get it. Get my child’s
food or I’ll beat you.” On the boat
from Colombo they struck a matey
cockney woman:—
“Won’t you have a drink?” she
echoed, mimicking my voice. “You
know, you’re a bit a-la, aren’t you?
There’s nothing a-la about me,” and
just to prove it, she got up and
kissed the nearest steward.
Mr. Cook makes a good fist of his
quick trip through Australia. He was
irked throughout his sojourn here by
regulations about ties and coats in
hotel-lounges. When he defied the
rule in W.A. they turned the lounge-
radio off on him, then the lights; which
understandably soured him about our
concentration on being “well-behaved
and ‘nice,’ a process which has created
a certain meanness, or lack of extrava-
gance, a tendency to investigate a
neighbor’s business, a sense of intoler-
ance and an absence of culture.”
They saw a lot of what Peter Bladen
saw crossing the Nullarbor Plain, and
Mr. Cook describes it pretty well,
especially a tree “suddenly exploding
into a flock of pink-and-white cocka-
toos.” An Adelaide interview com-
prised of “vulgar curiosity” (Mr.
Cook’s) hnd “amicable tolerance” (Sir
Donald Bradman’s) “turned out to be,
inevitably, a trifle artificial.”
He liked Sydney more than Mel-
bourne or Adelaide because it isn’t
planned, and saw a fair amount of
Sydney during his three days here,
although whoever told him the King’s
Cross “widges and wodges” were “local
pansies, old chap,” was innocently
uninformed.
There is some very nice writing
about California, and some curious
information about some curious clubs
for men there; altogether it is a
travelogue in which you can live almost
every day of the journey, and in which
the special occurrences are very good
indeed.
They began on February 12 and
returned on September 12 —seven
months. They covered 19,150 miles
overland in 93 driving days, with 93
extra stopping days and 31 days at
sea. Their average mileage per
travelling-day was 206.
Pidgin in New Guinea
Professor Robert A. Hall’s Hands Off
Pidgin English! (Pacific Publications,
Sydney) is an answer to the United
Nations resolution of 1953 which, the
width of the world away, “condemned
the use of pidgin in the Territory of
New Guinea and demanded that pidgin
be immediately ‘abolished.’ ”
Professor Hall points out that there
are “hundreds” of separate languages
in New Guinea and that the tribes
therefore need pidgin to talk with each
other as well as with the white man;
that, learned by the natives when they
are young and in such places as Manus
“reported to be the first language of a
large proportion of the population,”
pidgin may be regarded as the native’s
own “property” rather than something
imposed upon them by the wicked
white man, so that they themselves
should have some say in whether or
not it is to be abolished; and that,
as a purely practical matter,
Some have said, and I believe
rightly, that if the use of pidgin were
to cease tomorrow the entire
organisation of Melanesia would
simply break down.
On the question of whether or not
pidgin is limiting the natives’ power of
development the professor reminds us
that, as well as the “Liklik Katolik
Baibel” and “Katolik Nius” put out by
the Catholic presses at Alexishafen and
Vunapope, “considerable advance had
been made up to 1953 in the use of
pidgin in radio broadcasts and in edu-
cation, especially the preparation of
technical manuals for such subjects as
medicine and storekeeping and the
publication of mimeographed journals
at Lae, Madang, Wewak and Rabaul.”
His conclusion, summarised, is:—
Pidgin should not be condemned,
nor its use discouraged. It is time
for purists to recognise that pidgin
is as good as any other language.,..
On the other hand, pidgin should
not be favored exclusively, lest it
become the vehicle of extremist
nationalism. The teaching of Eng-
lish should be extended . . .
Apart from the strong case which he
thus presents, Professor Hall has
written in “Hands Off Pidgin English!”
a fascinating little book for anyone
interested in words and the history of
languages. It appears, for instance,
that we ourselves speak pidgin, our
noble English language deriving from
the proto-Germanic tongues spoken in
Scandinavia and northern Germany
around 400 B.C. to A.D. 200, while
“Proto - Germanic may well have
originated as a pidginised variety of
Indo-European, which arose along the
amber trade-route from the Mediter-
ranean to the Baltic in the first
millennium 8.C.”
Coming a little closer to our own
times after this liklik professorial
bombshell, we learn that pidgin itself
is a pidgin word, thought to derive
from Chinese pidgin in the early days
of European settlement in Canton when
John Chinaman’s attempt to cope with
the awkward but all-important word
“business” became first “bishin” and
then “pidgin”; so when we say “It’s
not my pigeon” we are using Chinese
pidgin to say “It’s not my business.”
“Joss” similarly came from Chinese
pidgin, deriving from the Portuguese
“dios”; “piccaninny” came from the
Portuguese “pequeninho,” meaning
“little”; and our everyday “long time
no see” and “have a look-see” are both
also from Chinese pidgin.
There is also an account of how the
pidgin Bazaar-Malay, established by
the Dutch, came to be adopted as the
official national language of Indonesia.
However, i-laik ren and, having no
umbrella, one had better dash for the
train before it does; pausing only to
agree with the professor that pidgin is
“a most interesting and attractive little
language” and to wonder whether it
really is necessary to substitute the
awful term “form-classes” for “nouns”
and “verbs.” What, after all [“ola-
boi! (‘golly!’) godam! (‘drat it!’) laka?
(‘Do you understand?’)”] is wrong with
nouns and verbs?
Merriment at Mudflat
About the best thing to do on sight-
ing The Mudfiat Million, by R. G.
Campbell and S. H. Courtier (Angus
and Robertson), would be to burst
into roars of laughter and keep on
roaring while some other less fortunate
soul takes the book away and suffers
the joys of reading it. Like a colored
balloon at a party, it is so obviously
meant to be jolly that it would be a
great pity to pierce it with the pin of
a critical eye or even to pause and
wonder for a moment whether there is
anything in it but hot air.
In a device which one seems to have
met before on the films —and indeed a
film-producer might be the ideal
person to take the book away, and
make a bright entertainment out of it —
Mr. Campbell and Mr. Courtier have
discovered an American breakfast-food
millionaire who has left a million
pounds to his Australian birthplace,
the township of Mudfiat; and the plot,
with a great deal of falling into ponds,
and barbecues where everyone gets
drunk, and historical pageants where
everything goes uproariously wrong,
has to do with assorted land-jobbers,
politicians and the illegitimate offspring
of the millionaire all manoeuvring to
get a cut of the million until in the end
nobody gets anything.
Mixed-up with all this roaring farce,
and having very little real connection
with it, is the story of a great Aus-
tralian author, Inigo J. Burse, also a
native of Mudfiat; to do honor to whom
the township is invaded by members
of the Steak and Eggs Club (a name
vaguely reminiscent of something),
most of whom are trying to beat each
other to be first out with a biography
of the great man.
It seems to this reviewer, having
made the fatal mistake of restraining
his hilarity for a moment, that Mr.
Campbell and Mr. Courtier had quite
an amusing short-story in the opening
chapter when the Steak and Eggs Club
bursts into a celebration in honor of
the retiring schoolmaster, as a result
of which poor Mr. Cashley never gets
the pipe which the committee intended
frugally to present to him: and for the
rest, allowing for some promising
glimpses of characterisation and a grin
from time to time, that there is not
enough of Inigo Burse and not enough
of the Steak and Eggs Club, presuming
they could satisfactorily be integrated
with the story; that too much of the
humor depends on the printing of a
few rude words which, like sneezing in
church, are not intrinsically funny; and
that, with an Anglo-Indian brigadier
and a vicar drawn from English light
novels, the millionaire’s illegitimates
drawn from American hillbilly films,
and with little attempt (except for a
few cursory references to “Chinese
scrub,” cicadas and dingoes) to depict
the local scene, the novel lacks any
convincing relation to the Australian
countryside.
CO CO RICO
A cock is crowing in the lake.
Co co rico! The bubbles rise,
The frail shells of planets break
And eyelids tremble on the eyes.
White bodies dreaming sway below
Like weed in rhythmical embrace;
And now the golden numbers blow
To break the surface in a kiss.
Co co rico! With hiss of breath,
Their separate bodies fused in one
In a white moment made the earth
At the centre of the sun.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


111
If
J&t
II
a
mr
■ll
-V
til
a
m m
C-V"
"■mjmcsi*
i
ii
111
m
m
w
>.. ££
iiHiiil
a
1
How well do you know
Anthony Horderns’?
Anthony Horderns’ (for 50 years the “Heart of Sydney
Central”) is a pleasant and interesting place to spend
a day. Our spacious store is packed with a larger
range of merchandise (from all over the world) than
you would find in a day’s march around the City.
Anthony Horderns’ mammoth 16J acre emporium is a
complete self-contained shopping and business area in
itself, “a city within-a-city” store with a friendly,
efficient atmosphere. It’s our policy to offer you more
service, than any other store in the whole of Australia.
For instance , did you know
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a complete Post Office for your con-
venience. All postal facilities of the G.P.O. Letters, parcels can
be posted, Money Orders, Postal Notes issued, Telegrams sent,
etc., Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Branch-Agency of the Commonwealth
Savings Bank. Adjacent the Post Office. Just register your signature
here and make deposits and withdrawals whilst shopping in the store.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Free writing room for your conven-
ience next to the Bank. Writing materials provided.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has 20 public telephones, including one
trunkline booth handily placed throughout the store.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Pharmacy just inside the Pitt Street
entrance. Prescriptions dispensed, including those on the Free
Medicine” list. Mr. O. K. Small, m.p.s., ph.e., is in attendance.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has an Optical Service which offers you a
detailed eye examination using modern scientific methods and
equipment. Optometrist, T. N. Rice, a.s.t.c., f.i.0., Second Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has an efficient and speedy Dry Cleaning
Service. In addition to clothing, carpets, rugs, curtains, etc., are
accepted for cleaning. Moderate charges. Ground Floor, George St.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has 7 Customer Lounges. These comfort-
able rest alcoves are appreciated by our customers. Located on
most floors.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has more FREE retiring rooms for both
men and women than any other store in Sydney.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has Breakfast ready to serve from 8.30 a.m.
Monday to Friday incl. Moderate charges. Dining Room, 2nd Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Beauty Salon and Chiropody section.
Come in and relax while expert hair stylists cut, permanent wave
and shampoo your hair. Manicurists too, will make your hands
prettier and our Chiropody Salon gives you new foot ease. Prices
moderate. Appointment, 80951. Second Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a complete Catering Service. If you’ve
a party, wedding reception or celebration, our experts will arrange
food, decorations and cutlery. We will lend our crockery, cutlery
and glassware for the important occasions, birthdays, anniversaries,
public functions, etc. Charges moderate.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has an Extended Credit Service which offers
you the lowest terms anywhere. Each transaction is treated conn-
dentially and terms arranged to suit your individual income. Cre it
Manager, Third Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Picture Framing Dept, that will frame
your pictures and photos with taste. Come and see the great
variety of designs. Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Kodak Photo Developing and Print-
ing Service. Quick service. Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Contemporary Shop where three
expert interior decorators will gladly give you any assistance you
may need for furnishing, re-decorating, home painting and planning
to furnish or re-furnish a home. See our magnificent collection of
modern furniture and drapes, etc. Third Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Fine Art Department where you can
buy or sell antiques. Fourth Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Gardening Expert (Mr. Albert Evans,
f.r.h.s.) always in attendance to give you guidance and information
on garden problems. Fourth Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Clothing Hospital where we expertly
repair and remodel clothing for both men and women. Invisible
mending, alterations, refitting, relining, etc. Gmd. Floor, George St.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a number of Store Guides who will
give you information about the store activities and where to make
your purchases. They will call a taxi for you or a hire car, direct
and help you in every way.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Lay-by Section. You may take
advantage of special bargains offered from time to time even though
you may not have sufficient ready cash with you. Just pay a small
deposit (4/- in the £) and pay the balance at your own convenience.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has no less than 5 different places where
you can obtain a meal whilst shopping in the store. Whether you
want a three course dinner with liquor or a mere snack, come to
Anthony Horderns’.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has the best telephone service in Sydney.
When you call 80951 ask for T.O.P.S. and our efficient courteous
friendly attendants will take your order on the spot and ring you
back in case of a query. Remember ask for TOPS.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 31, 19SS
Vol. 76—No. 3942
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
»_
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521 h
"Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
PROSPERITY ON THE TIGHTROPE
TREASURER FADDEN’S 1955-56 Budget marks
the beginning of a new era in Australian economic
history. The forces of high productivity in other
parts of the world are showing-up starkly in the
Commonwealth the restrictive practices of A.L.P.
policy as well as the fallacies of much Australian
economic theory. Australia is out of step with the
world to the extent that its productivity is too low
and its costs too high. It is riding precariously on
the top of a wave of consumer-demand that has
been stimulated by increased immigration, and
there is no assurance that the economy will respond
to the steering-oar of a Treasury. The real arbiters
of financial destiny appear to be, as usual, the
arbitration court, import-policy (including the
tariff), pressure-groups and the propagandists.
The national income last year reached its- peak
at over £4OOO million. Private incomes reached their
peak at £3833 million. But during 1954-55
domestic expenditure continued to outrun domestic
production. We consumed more than we produced;
and this excess of domestic expenditure was
reflected in the excess of imports over exports and
the running-down of international reserves and by
borrowing overseas.
Exports dropped by £49 million to £763
million, which is a very respectable income from
external sources for a nation of Australia’s stature.
But the imports made a “dominating rise” from
£683 million in 1953-54 to £846 million —when
freight was taken into consideration the increase
was £lB4 million. The deficit in our overseas
balance was £256 million, which represents a third
of the value of our exports.
There can be no doubt about the general
position on the basis of this thumbnail balance-
sheet. Australia is the victim of its own “consumer
inflation” and its own inadequate productivity. It
is in no shape to meet the cold winds of inter-
national adversity. Internally its assets are being
allowed to deteriorate and depreciate without
adequate provision for renewal and extension.
Thanks to the arbitration system “as is” and
the needling of pressure-groups, money-earnings
have ballooned and production in relation to wages
is shrinking. Spending, nevertheless, in some parts
of the economy seems to have inflated more than
wages. It has eaten into savings and has resulted
in a general pledging of credit on a high-interest
basis under the time-payment system which is
worrying not only Australia but the whole world.
The U.S.A., the United Kingdom and Maoriland
in particular have been taking measures to dampen
its effects. The demand for consumer-goods in the
luxury and non-reproductive classes has created
bottlenecks in labor and consequently in material-
supply for vital industry, and particularly for
defence.
Major industries suffer in the same way,
and on top of that the wheat industry, though
momentarily stable, is not in a sound position. And
while our production-costs are going up and tend-
ing to stifle the country’s power to compete with
other countries which haven’t the same inhibitions
about hard work and long hours, exportable pro-
duction itself is actually being restrained by loaf
and the forty-hour-week complex, by diversion of
increasing quantities of labor into luxury and
non-essential production and by shortage of
facilities and costly and inadequate transport.
The Treasurer put the position clearly, though
never quite calling a spade a spade. But he was
clearest about the fact that, while it is evident
that Australia is highly prosperous, and while it
can absorb its 125,000 immigrants this year and
natural-increase of available labor all too readily
—with virtually full-employment at the end of
1953-54 it has since gulped-up a further force of
180,000 without satisfying needs—it is, in effect,
being prosperous on a tightrope. And the Govern-,
ment is afraid to shift much as a big-toe for fear
of throwing the economy out of balance, widening
the gap between demand and supply and setting-up
an inflationary spiral in wages and costs which
might climb into the stratosphere. Already there is
inflation—“mild and incipient.” But still inflation,
and the defrosting of State basic wages will
stimulate it.
In all circumstances the Government’s course,
in the round, is probably the wisest that can
be pursued, even if some company-tax procedure
remains inflexible and exasperatingly inequit-
able. It must attempt to cope with “consumer
inflation” and strive to prevent the creation of new
money that is not matched by the creation of new
goods. Funds obtained from Central Bank credit or
overseas borrowing, or through remissions of taxa-
tion, would accentuate the spending-boom and
encourage the mortgage-virus epidemic which is
raging through the country. It must face the fact
that it doesn’t know where the wool-market will
go this season, or what will happen to wheat. It
can’t cut defence expenditure or social-services
obligations—indeed, that impost, which has 'grown
to about £220 million a year, it must increase to
meet the mild rises in cost-of-living as they affect
pensioners, whose extra 10s. a week is about all the
public will get in concessions. It is committed to
monthly loan-money. payments under the loan
agreement with the States equivalent to £l9O million
a year, with the prospect that, in competition with
hire-purchase companies offering 5, 6 or even 8 per
cent., it will have difficulty in raising even the
equivalent of the £123 million raised on the local-
market last year. It has no control over what the
unions may induce the arbitration courts to do in
the matter of wages and hours, any more than it
has power to determine overseas prices and com-
petition, or to deal with overseas shipping-freights
if the shipping companies put their backs up. It,
moreover, can’t foresee the policies of State Gov-
ernments save that some of them will be un-co-
operative and determine their courses of action by
moving in the direction opposite to that taken by
the Federal Government. It cannot, in the present
circumstances, even say what Governments will be
in power in six months’ time.
Therefore, in a nutshell, the position is much
what it has been outlined to be in “The Bulletin”
for some time past. The country is not quite sure
where it is going, though all too complacent just the
same. Taxation is obviously not a burden which
breaks any backs, or is even enough to pinch the
most riotous spender. There appears to be money to
burn in some places. But, pending more daylight on
the whole situation, internal and external, the
Government’s task is, as the Treasurer suggests, to
hold the economy on an even keel, a feat which he
thinks can be achieved only by voluntary effort and
by the use of the weight of Government spending
applied in proper balance and not leaning to an
expansion which would pervade every section of
the economy, or a restraint which would constrict
development and natural progress.
All it can do for the moment is to try to assist
essential production and to influence spending into
proper channels. But the Budget put up the red-
light for individuals and for State Governments,
and if they prefer not to see it there will have to be
more drastic steps, especially if there is a further
fall in the price of wool.
Meantime, the sooner the whole economy and
the effects on it of arbitration-court and Customs
“protection” and of State Government policies are
thoroughly examined and a long-term programme
worked-out the better for the country.
If a population rolling in opportunities and
dowered with a leisure never before known to man
will not practise prudence and self-help, somebody
must make it in its own interests.
Easy Payments and Hard Facts
HIRE-PURCHASE, once a form of credit con-
sidered mildly discreditable, now the commonly-
accepted method of acquiring washing-machines,
radios, refrigerators, motor-cars, bedroom-suites
and a host of other consumer-goods, is fast becom-
ing the bugbear of Treasurers the world over.
Hire-purchase today is big business. In the United
States last year it accounted for the sale of articles
valued at £BOOO million; in Australia, £224 million.
Most of the financing of these transactions is done
not by the retailers, but by finance or “acceptance”
companies which raise money from the general
public on unsecured notes bearing up to 8 per cent,
interest —a fact which has caused the Federal
Treasurer and the Commonwealth Bank governor
some concern.
When a bill to amend the Hire-purchase
Agreements Act was before the N. S. Wales Parlia-
ment a few months ago some members who should
have known better attacked it on the ground that
it was interfering with the rights of people to buy
as they pleased. This was because the amend-
ments were designed to cut out “no-deposit” h.-p.
deals. Their argument was apparently based on
the misconception that h.-p. was invented for the
benefit of buyers. Nothing, of course, could be
further from the facts. Hire-purchase was devised
for the protection of sellers; the buyers had all the
protection they needed under the old system of
instalment-sales from which hire-purchase sprang.
Under a contract for purchase by instalments
the ownership in the goods sold passes to the
purchaser immediately, however small the initial
payment may be. The effect of this is that if the
buyer fails to pay his instalments the seller has no
right to repossess the goods. They belong to the
defaulting buyer, and the former owner’s only
redress is to sue for the amount owing. It was to
overcome this that h.-p. was introduced, its prin-
ciple being that the ownership does not pass until
the final instalment is paid; until then all instal-
ments are regarded as payment for the hire of the
article. When instalments fall into arrears the
seller, still being the legal owner, may repossess
the article. Under instalment-purchase a buyer
can even resell goods for which he has not paid;
the original owner still has merely a civil action for
debt. But if a buyer under h.-p. resells goods he
may find himself in jail.
Time-payment—which term includes h.-p. and
all other forms of instalment-selling—has been a
boon to millions of people not because it has
enabled them to live beyond their means, but
because it has allowed them to live a little ahead of
their means. With those who use it wisely it
becomes a form of compulsory saving, with the
advantage that they can enjoy the use of the goods
they want while they are saving to pay for them.
Like all forms of credit, it is useful to those who
know how to use it, but, again like all forms of
credit, it can be dangerous when abused—and the
danger is not limited to the parties immediately
involved.
There is no disputing that easy-payments mean
increased sales; the whole system is built upon this
assumption. And increased sales naturally mean
increased output, so that h.-p. contributes to an
expanding economy. In times of boom and full-
employment this expansion is rapid and there is a
danger of saturation-point being reached in some
commodities. There must be, for example, some
limit to the number of new refrigerators that can
be absorbed by any given community. If through
easy-payments trading and intensive advertising,
this point is reached or approached, further sales
will depend more and more on replacements, so
that production will have to level-off at a figure
possibly below current production. The conse-
quences of this should be obvious. This point has
not yet been reached in Australia, but it is a fact
that many concerns are finding it virtually impos-
sible to dispose of traded-in refrigerators. One
dealer in Sydney recently gave away hundreds.
Between the resumption of peace-time produc-
tion in 1946 and the end of 1954 close on 1,500,000
refrigerators were put into Australian homes, as
well as 1,150,000 vacuum-cleaners and 900,000
washing-machines. As accessories to the comfort
and happiness of Australian families and tcf the
employment of Australian workmen the produc-
tion represented by these figures is to be applauded,
but as the total number of dwellings in Australia
is only about 2\ million, doubts must arise whether
sales, even with the aid of h.-p., can continue to
justify output at current rates.
Figures recently issued by the Commonwealth
Statistician show that in the quarter ended June
30, 1955, the amount outstanding on h.-p. agree-
ments increased from £l7O million to £lBl million.
In the same period 218,859 new agreements were
signed, covering goods to a total value of
£64,478,000, of which the h.-p. companies pro-
vided finance amounting to £39,696,000. These
figures represent a slight decline in the number of
new contracts in comparison with the March
quarter, but there was an increase both in the total
value of the goods and in the amount financed by
the companies. The reason for this is significant:
the proportion of business covering household and
personal goods declined under all three headings;
increased trading in motor-vehicles more than
counterbalanced this.
Business in household-appliances was not only
lower than for the March quarter; it was also lower
than for the June quarter in 1954. This suggests
that in some lines the peak has already been passed
and that goods are getting harder to sell. The
giving-away of old “fridges,” already mentioned, is
one symptom of this; reports of a Sydney concern
offering new refrigerators to its numerous staff at
less than wholesale rates is another. Despite this
and despite the amended N. S. Wales Hire-purchase
Act some big Sydney retailers are still advertising
“nondeposit” easy-payments. As the amendments
were designed to shut the door on devices framed
to avoid the prohibitions on “no-deposit” h.-p.
agreements in the original Act, it must be assumed
that these offers are not h.-p. at all, but that the
companies have, reverted to simple instalment-plan
selling, with all the risks it implies.
As far as the national economy is concerned,
it makes little difference whether the “no-deposit”
sale is h.-p. or not; the inflationary tendency is the
same. In his Budget speech the Federal Treasurer
again referred to the effect on the loan-market of
competition from hire-purchase finance companies
offering up to 8 per cent, interest, and a trading-
bank chairman has criticised the system which
permits these companies to pay high rates of
interest on deposits while limiting the banks to a
mere 2 per cent. If the Federal Government’s
banking powers do not permit it to regulate the
quasi-banking activities of the finance companies,
then it should ask the States, in their own interests,
to concede it the necessary powers.


MUSEUM-PIECE
“Yes, it was finished twenty-three years ago. New South Wales politicians in those days never seemed to think of anything else but building bridges, roads,
public works and developing the country. They used to worry if the trains didn’t run on time! They didn’t have a clue about just tying-up everything
under a greenbelt scheme or lurks like that.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Modern Giant
The official opening of Australia’s first
wide continuous hot-strip mill at Port
Kembla (N.S.W.) this week is a big
advance by the B.H.P. organisation to-
wards making this country self-sufficient
in the requirements of modern industrial
and living standards.
Flat-rolled steel today provides the
shell of a huge variety of domestic
requirements. Motor - car bodies,
refrigerator-cabinets, washing-machines,
office equipment and a variety of build-
ing components are made of flat-rolled
steel. And it is the basis also of tinplate,
that everyday item in the domestic
kitchen and garbage.
The Port Kembla strip-mill is the
largest addition ever made to the Aus-
tralian iron-and-steel industry. And it
and other processing plants will strain
the capacity of the country’s crude-steel
resources. The capital cost of what is
involved has already been enormous.
The B.H.P. group has spent million
"on new plant and equipment during the
past five years. Yet the task of provid-
ing steel feed and making use of the
strip-mill’s full productive capacity is far
from finished. Expenditure over the next
five years will be heavier still.
At the time its post-war expansion was
envisaged, B.H.P. did not anticipate the
years of whirlwind inflation that were
ahead, nor did it bargain for a continu-
ous shortage of labor and materials and
engineering services. These conditions
have slowed-down completion of the
construction programme and seriously
raised its cost. But latterly the immigra-
tion policy has helped in one respect. A
quarter of the manpower at Port Kembla
and Newcastle is now European.
Australia is still short of steel. But
because of high cost of plant, new steel-
capacity will mean dearer steel. That
is obvious. Still, in spite of the two
increases in price during the past year,
Australian basic steel is still the cheapest
in the world. It is 39 p.c.
cheaper than that imported duty-free
from the U.K. and 41 p.c. lower than that
from the U.S.A. And almost everywhere
in the world steel is a scarce commodity.
B.H.P. began as a silver-mining co. in
1883. It switched to steel at Newcastle in
1913. Australian Iron and Steel (Port
Kembla), in which the Hoskins steel
interests had been merged, was acquired
in 1935. Port Kembla is now the heart
of the B.H.P. organisation.
Unity and Sanity
The Labor Youth Conference in Sydney
provided a charming picture of the state
of the “Labor” party.
The State A.L.P. secretary, Mr. Col-
bourne, attended to act as mentor, and
told the conference that party-members
would “have to sink differences if we
are to win” the three elections which he
expects in N. S. Wales next year —Reps.,
Senate and State. He urged that “we
bring an end to factionalism in the party
and acknowledge the leadership of Mr.
Cahill in the State sphere and Dr. Evatt
in the Federal sphere.”
The most pertinent remark he made,
however, was that “every now and then
you would think the party had gone
mad.”
This was certainly such a time; for
following Mr. Colbourne’s exhortation it
proceeded to give practical application
to his words. Somebody moved that
Mr. Cahill be asked to repeal compulsory-
unionism. The chairman promptly ruled
the motion out of order on the ground
that the conference had no power to deal
with the matter. The meeting dissented
from the chairman, who left the chair.
A Leftist of the Evatt persuasion
weighed-in with a motion directed against
the White Australia policy. He moved
that no person should be debarred from
becoming a resident of Australia because
of race. The chairman had decided that
it could not discuss the matter. Again he
was repudiated, this time on the motion of
a Peking Peace Conference delegate. But
it appears that a special committee of
the Federal Conference is going into the
White Australia policy.
Finally came a unanimous resolu-
tion affirming the party’s socialisation
objective and calling for nationalisation
of shipping and banking and asking the
Federal and State executives to establish
research and education bureaux to spread
information about the policy. This fol-
lowed on the first public pronouncement
of Mr. Campbell, the new president of
the N.S.W. A.L.P., an Evatt follower
who has revived the Socialist objective.
The move, of course, runs directly
counter to Dr. Evatt’s assertion that
socialisation is dead, killed by the High
Court and that it is no longer a practical
election issue.
But the Evatt supporters were also
rebuffed when they moved a resolution
which called for the withdrawal of Aus-
tralia from the South-east Asia Collec-
tive Defence Treaty organisation.
Mr. Colbourne would need to be a
combination of Houdini and a carpet-
snake to support the two conflicting
parties who are led by Messrs. Cahill and
Evatt and whose objective is “unity.”
It would be easier for the Evatt group
to support the Communist party than the
industrial-groups on general political
policy, and easier for the industrial-
groups to support the Liberals, save on
the policy of grab, than the Evatt
faction.
P. H. Prior
When The Bulletin opened its Bris-
bane office in 1927 it was placed in
charge of Phillip Hazell Prior, who had
been born and bred in New South Wales.
But it was not long before Phil Prior
became thoroughly at home in Queens-
land, and in Brisbane he remained, large
in stature and hospitable in nature, a part
of the city and the State, until he died
after a lengthy illness last Saturday. He
was in control of Brisbane office until
the end.
The eldest son of the late S. H. Prior,
who was editor of The Bulletin from
1915 to 1933, and for a long time before
that financial editor, Phil Prior’s
working-life began in the Bank of North
Queensland in its Sydney branch. Then
he went on the land, and grew wheat
successfully at Mirrool, in 'N.S.W. In
1927 he sold his property and became
one of the proprietors and, in 1933, a
director of The Bulletin.
Himself, earlier in life, the victim of
an accident with a horse which impaired
the sight of an eye, P. H. Prior was one
of those who helped the Rev. John
Flynn to found the Flying Doctor
Service 27 years ago. It was from Phil
Prior’s office in Brisbane that the Original
letters of invitation issued by the Aus-
tralian Inland Mission were sent to
public-spirited people whose aid was
sought in conducting the service in the
early days. When Flynn and party set
out in three cars and a truck carrying all
their water, food, petrol and other
requirements, travelling overland to
Bircjsville to perform the opening of the
first nursing-hostel established by the
A.I.M. in Queensland, Phil Prior was one
of the party; and he also travelled
overland with them to the Dunbar
Mission on the eastern side of the Gulf
of Carpentaria, where another hostel was
inaugurated.
In 1939, when the A.I.M. decided to
transfer control of the Flying Doctor
activities to the new Australian Aerial
Medical Service, he was one of the most
active workers in carrying-out the detail
of the changeover. Until he retired this
year from his office as vice-president
of the Queensland section of the service,
Phil Prior continued to give valued and
expert assistance.
During World War II the Prior home
at Hamilton was open-house to all ser-
vicemen, and hundreds of Australians
who wore uniform will remember that.
Will Bolte Be Bluffed?
Expectations that Victoria, as a result
of the electors’ clearly-demonstrated dis-
gust with the intrigues and pressure-
politics of minority-parties and splinter-
groups, might be in for a period of stable
government, seem to have been a little
premature.
Premier Bolte, shortly after his election
victory, said his Government’s first task
would be to give the State stability. His
first move to give effect to this policy has
been to tackle the problem of the railway-
deficit, which was estimated for the com-
ing year at £4 million. After Cabinet
had chewed the problem over for some
time Transport Minister Warner an-
nounced increases of 25 per cent, on
suburban rail-fares and 15 per cent, on
country fares. Freights on primary pro-
ducts from the country were also in-
creased by varying amounts, but those
on groceries, clothing and other goods
sent to the country were reduced.
These changes were expected to cut
£2,250,000 off the deficit. At the same
time the Government proposed to intro-
duce a maintenance-charge of a penny a
ton on all road-transport vehicles of four
tons and over, the proceeds to be used
for the upkeep of roads.
The proposals were a realistic approach
to the transport problem, though a
searching investigation into railway-
efficiency would also seem overdue, as
in other States. But the Victorian
Country party, which always prides itself
on its realism —certainly no one has ever
accused it of altruism —jumped on it
with hobnailed boots. The acting-leader
of the party, Mr. Moss, commented:
If the Premier wishes to add his Govern-
ment’s name to the list of short-lived
Governments in Victoria, the easiest way
would be to proceed with his idea of
increasing rail-fares and -freights.
When the Transport Minister offered to
address Country-party members and
explain the proposals, the party refused
to be interested; Premier Bolte sug-
gested that this was because they were
afraid of being convinced.
As fares and freights are varied by
regulation and not by Act of Parliament
there was little the Spring-street Farmers
could do about the increases, except
issue threats—-which they did. At the
weekend their declared intention was to
make a stand in the Legislative Council
on the road-transport proposals, appar-
ently with the purpose of making the
Bolte Government join the ranks of
short-lived Governments.
If they do so they will be very foolish
indeed. Railway-deficits have to be met
in some way; the way the Government
is choosing is the fairest one. And the
Victorian electors are not likely to look
kindly upon a party which forces another
election upon them so soon after the last.
Turkey's Example
Events in Europe point the tide of Red
influence which lurks behind them.
Dissensions in the Mediterranean area
have been a prime objective with Moscow
for a long time, a focus of propaganda
against “colonialism” in the West as Indo-
China and Malaya and Indonesia have
been in the East.
The troubles between Israelis and
Arabs have been exacerbated by secret
Red agitation in UNO. There is tittle
doubt but that there has been Red agita-
THE MIND OF ASlA—
page 28
tion behind the Egyptian and Sudanese
“freedom” movements. And there is no
doubt at all about what is happening in
north-west Africa, where the bloodshed
has culminated in the French Govern-
ment’s plan to give Morocco indepen-
dence under a system of close linkage
with France. The position is complicated
there by the American reluctance to see
U.S. supplies used to fight massacring
tribesmen. It has been to the advantage
of the destroyers of “colonialism” that
they have all the time had the
sentimentalists of the United States
on their side and eager, so long
as United States interests are not directly
affected, to “free” other people’s colonies.
On the verge of the London conference
which is to discuss Cyprus, the
Turkish Prime Minister, Mr. • Adnam
Menderes, has come out plainly with a
declaration that Turkey will regard it as
a minimum condition that Cyprus shall
remain British.
It is a triumph for British policy that*
an old enemy of World War I should
prefer British control of a near-by
island, whose people are racially akin to
its own, to that of a neighbor and defen-
sive ally.
But it is a logical outlook, and repre-
sents an island of commonsense in a
world which is apt to get hysterical
whenever the words “freedom” and “self-
determination” are mentioned in respect
of people wh6 are unable to defend them-
selves economically or otherwise.
What Will the "Doc." Do?
“In the ACT”: If Dr. Evatt were not
the curiously-constituted and egocentric
person he is, and if he were ten years
younger than his present 60„there might
be some hopes of a statesmanlike and
strategic withdrawal on his part in
“Labor’s” present woes. There would
be, indeed, a distinguished precedent for
such action, for Menzies resigned leader-
ship of the then disintegrating U.A.P.,
and sat for a time on the back-benches.
(He said privately afterwards that he
found it a highly effective position for
addressing the House.)
As he hid probably suspected, and cer-
tainly hoped, the various elements found
they couldn’t do without him, and he
followed his recall to Opposition leader-
ship by patient moves which eventually
brought together into a conference-room
at Canberra all the then numerous non-
“Labor” parties, with the exception of
the Country party, which did not wish
to attend. Plenty of the delegates came
along saying, “It’s impossible to win with
Menzies,” and not all of them were con-
vinced to the contrary even when it was
decided, at that 1944 gathering, to estab-
lish the Liberal party.
The next five years were Menzies’s
testing-time. He travelled the country
tirelessly, he worked and talked in and
out of Parliament, while accepting an
occasional brief at Selboume Chambers
to keep the wolf at bay. The outcome, of
course, was the notable victory of Decem-
ber 10, 1949, and the subsequent wins.
This is an example which the Doc.
could try to follow on the “Labor” side,
but which he pretty certainly won’t
attempt. Being an opportunist first, last
and always, he is not likely to get out of
his present post unless caucus summons
up enough courage (and finds an accept-
able alternative) or until the electors of
Barton at the next election show their
contempt for him and all his works. He
knows well enough that in the jungle of
“Labor” politics his retirement would
mean permanent oblivion even if he
remained in the Parliament, and he can’t
be expected, on his record, to put party
interests before his own.
It seems a pity for the sake of assur-
ing a strong and alert Opposition that
there is not a leader at present able and
prepared to make a sacrifice, whether per-
manent or temporary, which might
achieve that highly desirable objective.
But no leader of any distinction or capa-
city emerges from the present frothy
discussions.
The Redex Riot
“R.A.”: What purpose is being served
by the Redex Trial under its present
conditions? The word “reliability” has
an odd appearance in the picture; cer-
tainly the reliability of the cars is not
being tested under any fair application
of the word.
Most interest seems to centre in the
driver’s endurance, his recklessness or, in
some cases, his beard. There are, after
all, easier and less expensive ways of
making cheap national heroes: the tem-
peramental tennis-star or the rowdy poli-
tician who shouts “earbumers” across
the House. And why go for a long
gadabout in the wilds where not a soul
is present to thrill to the spills: stock-car
racing serves-up a better programme any
Saturday night.
Australian roads need improvement.
In the main, where roads do exist they
need drastic modernisation —not shovel-
fuls of pothole-filling. Where there are
no roads —and need to be for our so
long proposed programme of opening-up
the interior —roads should be made that
look like roads, not fraying bitumen
tightropes.
However, we didn’t need someone to
race in to the wilderness, tear over the
worst road in the country, wrap himself
round a banyan-tree, with the wreckage
of his car caught by the camera dis-
playing “Bertwefi’s Tyres for Safety,” to
prove it. When Sydney University students
staged a traffic-daring dispute in the
middle of Parramatta-road because of
numerous accidents at a bad crossing,
everyone cried “Shame! ” and rightly so.
The same attitude in the Redex Irial
demands as loud a cry. The counter that
it is a trial not to prove the roads bad,
but to test the reliability of the vehicles,
as its name suggests, is laughed-away by
daily reports of ridiculous speeding by
the motorists “to be in on time”
and the resultant accidents. We have
enough accidents on the roads during the
year without putting on a bonanza.
This trial may be a lesson ; the last one
apparently wasn’t. Changes may be
made. Let’s hope they are. Let’s hope
also, rather optimistically perhaps, that
someone with the authority notices dur-
ing the trial that our roads really arent
the best.
Still They Come!
The Commonwealth Estimates are the
one bright spot in the Budget-papers—-
for civil servants, at any rate. They will
confirm the joy of those who are allowed
to stick their thumbs into the taxpayers
pie, though pleasure must be mitigated
by the fact that the Taxation Department
will stick its own finger a little deeper
into their pie. . M
Time was when the senior civil service
was looked on as a select few, but,
judging by the salary-rises, the creations
of new and opulent offices to. carry on
work that used to be carried on by single
individuals, the promotion of clerks to
(Continued on next page)


be assistant-directors, of assistant-
directors to be directors, the senior service
is far from few and neither so select as
it was.
The creation of Canberra, of course,
has had a great deal to do with changed
conditions. The struggle of State em-
ployees to snuggle as nearly as possible
to the fountain-head of power and prefer-
ment goes on day and night. Canberra
had 3800 inhabitants in 1925. It held
5600 in 1938, 10,500 in 1945, and holds
33,000 today. And nothing seems to
curb the ballooning of numbers and
emoluments.
From the first item in the departmental
schedules to the last is a long story of
mounting staffs, mounting costs. The
Senate, which cost £13,500 in salaries to
run in 1952-53, following on the greatest
boom-year in overseas markets the
country has known, is this year to cost
£27,700, with only three more on the
staff —it has acquired a “Ministerial
liaison-officer” at £1750 a year, and two
more attendants. The House of Repre-
sentatives manages with only one more
on the staff and an increase from
£23,600 to £29,000. The Joint House
Committee, which used to manage its
affairs giving an assistant-clerk to the
Senate £BO a year to act as secretary,
now pays a full-time secretary £3250 a
year, and the department costs £9500 a
year for salaries, against £3500 four years
ago.
The Department of the Interior
managed in 1952-53 with a secretary at
£3lOO (now £4500), five assistant-
secretaries (average £l5OO a year)—this
year they are in the £2500-a-year class —
and a deputy-assistant-secretary has been
added at £2098. Two deputy-directors at
£l5OO have become three at £2OOO-odd,
and a chief-survey or at £1454 has de-
veloped into a Chief Surveyor, A.C.T.,
and a Chief Town Planner, A.C.T., at an
average of £2200 each. Two Superinten-
dents of Parks, Land, Building, etc., at
£l5OO are now triplets at an average of
nearly £2OOO.
But it is in new departments which
have mushroomed-up in the last few
years that the really impressive per-
formance is to be noted. These depart-
ments made their running in the grand
old days when “Labor” was in power and
have never looked back.
The Department of Civil Aviation is
the pride of the service. It has a director-
general whose pay has risen 50 per cent,
since 1953-54. Where, three years ago, it
had three Assistant-Directors-General,
average £2190, it now has four, average
£2900. Its five directors at head-office,
average £2OOO, have grown to eight,
average £2600. It has seven regional
directors and three overseas representa-
tives, and its staff (administrative) has in-
creased since 1952-53 from 2581 to 3561,
with a combined payroll of £3,351,829.
The Social Services Department seems
quite modest after this —it manages at
head-office on 11 senior officers above the
rank of chief-accountant, and with £2OOO
or more in salaries per head.
At the same time there are departments
which are shining examples by civil-
service standards. External Affairs ad-
ministration is run with fewer officers
than in 1952-53, a gross budget for
salaries of only £288,000 for the coming
year, against £256,000 in 1953-54.
POLITICAL POINTS
Is an ex-Red one who goes over the
reliability course in reverse?
• •
Explaining why investigators had been
unable to find any trace of the “little
green spacemen” he and his family had
reported, a farmer in Kentucky said,
“You can’t see them except in the dark.”
So that’s what the Doc. has been seeing!
• •
The deputation of pensioners who
descended on Canberra on Budget-day
and were refused an audience with the
Prime Minister were later reported to be
“tired and bitter.” No doubt they were,
but their bitterness should not be directed
against Menzies but against those who
urged them on their ill-advised trip.
All the arguments they could have
advanced had already been put forward
and considered by Cabinet; the Budget
had been completed and was to be pro-
duced in Parliament within a few hours.
No Government could possibly agree to
recast its Budget at such a late hour and
no useful purpose could be served by the
P.M.’s listening to arguments which had
already been widely publicised.
These “marches on Canberra” achieve
nothing and get nowhere. The day after
the pensioners’ invasion a swarm of
strikers from the naval dockyards tried
the same technique on Jos Francis, who,
like his leader, refused to meet the
deputation.
• •
The promised public inquiry into the
sale of bleached green-belt land in Black-
town shire will open tomorrow at the
offices of the Local Government
Department
• •
There was a gleam in the Treasurer’s
eye when he mentioned the “heroic”
consumption of beer, and there might
well be. The estimate of excise on beer
this year is a record £BO million, compared
with £76,361,000 in 1954-55, and on
cigarettes the estimate is for £33 million,
compared with £29 million last year.
Spirits will pay a mere £7,100,000,
tobacco £14,500,000, and petrol £2l
million.
• •
A Canberra commentator suggested
that “Labor” was so short of leadership
material that Cahill might be persuaded
to transfer to Federal politics. The
N.S.W. Premier won’t find the suggestion
very alluring. Apart from knowledge of
how poorly Holman and Lang fared in
the Reps., he must have a fair idea of
how “Labor” will fare at the next
Federal poll. On present indications
there won’t be much left to lead.
• •
Sydney “Sun” and “Mirror” bring rape
right into the home.
• •
Ward explained his presence in the
Chamber on opening day by saying he
had been invited in. What he overlooked
was that he had been voted out.
• •
Lord Mayor Hills is advocating a
“conveyor-belt system” on Sydney’s
railway-platforms to speed-up the move-
ment of crowds. What the city really
needs is a conveyof-belt which will convey
a large portion of its population right
away from the place.
•
Clyde Cameron, “Labor” member for
Hindmarsh (S.A.), asked his perennial
question about alleged phone-tapping of
members’ calls by security police and got
the P.M.’s customary answer that he
refused to discuss security-police affairs
in the House.
• •
For increasing rail-freights and -fares
the Victorian Liberal Government is
under fire from the Country-party which
increased both in 1952 and file “Labor”
party which put up freights in 1943.
• •
Commenting on the Budget, the
secretary of N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’
Association said it lacked any incentive
“for farmers to plough money back into
their properties.” But what farmer ever
admits having any money to plough
back?
• •
“M’boro”: When P. and O. liner
Stratheden pulled her pick out of Bris-
bane River mud for the last time she
completed the city’s severance from big
passenger-liners. Before the war 19
British passenger-ships and' several
foreign ones made Brisbane a port of
call, but gradually all have given it
away because of slow tum-around —not
only at Brisbane. Now they concentrate
on the south, and Brisbane will see only
cargo-vessels.
• •
An American radio-engineer has pre-
dicted the use of guided missiles as
cargo-carriers. Somebody had better tell
the overseas shipping-lines.
• •
Disappearance of two Sydney metro-
politan seats under Federal redistribu-
tion, plus the party split, has complicated
A.L.P. preselection ballots. Dan Curtin’s
seat, Watson, having been altered out of
recognition, he has nominated for
Kingsford-Smith, now held by Gordon
Anderson. Curtin is an Evatt supporter ;
Anderson, a Grouper.
The position is reversed in Dailey,
where Evatt-“Labor” man Greenup is the
COMBINED PERFORMANCE
sitting member and Group-supporter
O’Connor the challenger. O’Connor’s
seat, Martin, has been wiped out.
Most other “Labor” members have
struck opposition in the ballots. Excep-
tions are Evatt (Barton), Fraser (Eden-
Monaro), Lemmon (St. George), Fitz-
gerald (Phillip) and Watkins (Newcastle).
Of these seats only the last can now be
called safe for “Labor.” This probably
explains why their holders have been
allowed to go unchallenged; in contrast
the sitting members for Darling, Hunter
and Reid each have three or four rival
aspirants for nomination. But the biggest
field is for the new seat, Hughes, out
beyond Bankstown, where 11 candidates
are eager to carry “Labor’s” banner.
• •
“Chevroford”: Premier Bolte is con-
sidering the allegedly thorny problem of
the Victorian bona fide traveller, that
gentleman, with the aid of country Bungs
who have been putting on elaborate floor-
shows to assist him on his exhausting
Sunday journeys from one pub to
another, having been misbehaving himself
more than ever. One suggestion is the
extension of the 20-mile limit to 100.
What use would that be? The drinkers
would then have to speed faster over a
greater distance. Why not abolish the
bona fide provision altogether? The
exhausted traveller who needs liquid
refreshment to stimulate him to further
effort is a fiction. He ceased to be when
the bullockdray - horse - and - buggy era
was supplanted by the high-powered
automobile. The only fatigue most bona
fide travellers suffer from nowadays is
drinkers’ elbow.
• •
Tax-reimbursements to the States will
total £157 million this year, an increase
of £7 million on 1954-55. Split-up:
New South Wales £ 6M76,000
Victoria .• •• 39,326,000
Queensland .. .. .. •• 24,733,000
South Australia }3, 768,000
Western Austraha 12,335,00 U
Tasmania ... 5,30Z,wv
• •
Fadden urged that the current need was
for restraint by everyone who had money
to spend—and that the restraint should
be voluntary. The most practical way of
setting the example for this would be for
Federal M.P.s to withdraw their request
for more personal spending-money.
• •
In Melbourne an application by the
American publishers of “Time,” “Life”
and “Fortune” to secure an injunction
to prevent Southdown Press from pub-
lishing a magazine under the name of
“Life” was rejected by Chief Justice
Herring. The applicants claimed they
had registered the title “Life” in Aus-
tralia in 1937. The Melbourne “Life,”
more recently published as “Life Digest,”
was founded in 1903 by Deeds-that-Won-
the-Empire Fitchett.
• •
When Ward asked the Prime Minister
a question about the fees of the members
of the Petrov commission, and the fees
and retainers paid to the counsel who
assisted the commission and appeared
for the Security Service, Menzies, after
saying that the Commonwealth was
following normal practice by recouping
the States for the salaries of the State
judges who comprised the commission,
added that it was not customary to
furnish detailed information before com-
pletion of the inquiry. However, he
could assure the hon. member
that the fee paid on brief to Mr. W. J. V.
Windeyer, Q.C., was less than that paid to
counsel who appeared on his behalf before the
Royal Commission on Timber Rights in Papua
and New Guinea in 1949, and that the daily
rate of fees payable to both Mr. Windeyer and
to the hon. member’s counsel were the same,
after excluding clerk’s fees. The hon. member
will, of course, recall that he was subsequently
reimbursed by the Government for these costs.
• •
One of the best advocates of decen-
tralisation is Governor-General Slim.
Opening Brisbane’s Royal Show, he said
if anyone tells you that some other city in
Australia is twice or three times or ten
times as big as Brisbane, don’t let that
worry you. You’ve got something much
more to be proud about. Of the eighteen
largest country towns in Australia six—
one-third of them —are in Queensland.
His Ex. remarked that every great indus-
trial country in the world was now trying,
at vast expense and trouble, to follow the
same policy of decentralisation.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Tipsters in the Can-
berra press-gallery have ceased predicting
the early political demise of the Anti-
Communist Labor party. That group
now numbers eight, Senator Cole (Tas.)
having joined the ranks with the dazzling
but empty title of leader of the party in
the Senate —he has no following.
Whether the Joshua-Keon boys are due
for the high-jump at the next election or
not, they are still causing the gravest
distress to the Evatt faction. If their
pressure for the release of the report of
the War Expenditure Committee is
successful “Labor” may have some more
tatters in its soiled reputation,
• •
Constitutional-reform may be coming
closer. Menzies has discussed with Evatt
the setting-up of an all-party committee
and his proposals are to be considered
by caucus. He suggests a committee of
12, half Government and half Opposition
members, with Attorney-General Spicer
as chairman. Government reps, would
comprise four Libs, and two Country-
party members; and the Opposition five
“Labor” and one Anti-Communist
“Labor.”
No general review is contemplated, but
subjects suggested for immediate dis-
cussion are the bringing-into-line of
Senate and Reps, elections; the over-
coming of deadlocks; problems arising
out of Section 92.


Society
"AND IT’S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
IN a Bob Dyer quiz (to which my infant
daughter compels me to listen) they
had women counting the articles in their
handbags ; the lady who topped the score
had 80. Full of scorn for feminine
muddle I counted the items in my own
pockets and found to my horror 66. —
“Mac Hoots.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“0.G.”: Our boss was struggling with
his income-tax return. He was deter-
mined not to miss-out again on his allow-
able deductions. The foreman was un-
able to explain some items. “Nefer mind.
I vill take home to the vife,” said our
semi-assimilated boss. “She haf the
English more dinkum.”
♦♦♦ ♦> ❖
“Not Least”: He was very drunk and
swore loudly in the street before he was
lumbered to bring a small fine and an
admonition. I walked up the street after
him and a round-up of opinion revealed
that someone should have rung-up the
police before and it was a pity people
couldn’t mind their own business. He
was always a quiet, harmless drunk and
a potential killer in drink. The police
handled him carefully and brutally as
he went in quietly, resisting violently. His
ultimate sentence was totally inadequate
and also vicious. The police were too
long in coming and it was a pity they
couldn’t attend to murderers instead of
drunks. He drank all day in the local
pub and the rare drink he had affected
him on account of war-injury.
❖ * *
“C.P.G.”: An iron veranda-post from
the Masonic Hotel, Nelson (N.Z.), is the
self-chosen “tombstone” to be put on the
grave of C. C. Nash, who pioneered
tobacco at Nelson (last year it netted
£820,000). It’s said that on the hotel-
veranda he was offered £35,000 on
behalf of overseas interests to give tobacco
away—they might as well have talked,
it seems, to an iron post.
❖ ❖
“Nunk”: Forced to listen to hit-
parades, I have contracted a senile affec-
tion for Rosemary Clooney and Miss
J, P, Morgan. What amazes me is that
Miss Clooney can make a song like
“Come On a My House,” or “This Old
1 House” or “Where Will the Baby’s
Dimple Be?” with accentuations and
turns of style that in a poem or a paint-
ing would be part of the technique, and
then can have the whole thing copied,
accent for accent, every phase of expres-
sion, by other singers in America, Eng-
land and Australia. Is nothing sacred?
You would think that after hearing Miss
Morgan shouting “Er Litturl Love,” in
the voice so strangely compounded of
crudity and purity as to constitute
the American girl’s declaration of in-
dependence, that nobody without her gift
for expressing the pathos and bravery of
her tribe and age would dare to sing that
song after her . . . But they do; all the
hags, the wailers, the vulgarisers. Alas,
I am only one of the few million who
really appreciate these struggling young
artists.
❖ *
“P.M.J.”: The Mitchell Library has
arranged a History-of-Medicine-in-Aus-
tralia exhibition to run with the B.M.A.
congress at present being held in Sydney.
On display are manuscripts by D’Arcy
Wentworth, Dr. Balmain ('the surgeon-
superintendent of the King William),
early pictures of hospitals, portraits
of early doctors, and printed items, in-
cluding early hospital reports, guides to
health for settlers, etc. . The exhibition
will be shown from August 20 until
September 19.
❖ ❖ ❖
“G’pa”: Melbourne has had another
tramway strike. Yarrasiders have come
to take these in their stride. The first
Tramway Union was launched on Janu-
ary 7, 1888. Inside six weeks employees
struck because some “student”-drivers
were not unionists. Directors McCulloch
and Clapp (father of H. 8.) stood firm.
The strike lasted three days. About 200
lost their jobs.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Viper”: I don’t own a car, don’t
give a personal hoot about drive-in
theatres. But I want to see Sydney get
’em. This city badly needs some com-
petitive fresh air to wake-up cinema-
Tsars. Film-distribution copies that boon
to bakers, bread-zoning. Just as we’re
told whose bread we’ll swallow, we’re
also told what films to swallow. Search
the suburbs on a Saturdee night. Within
each six-mile area you find a choice of
precisely the same two programmes. You
can fly to Bourke if you want something
“It's better than the old Waltzes We did thirty years ago.”
else. And of two suburban programmes
only one is of new films. No. 2 theatre
usually revives something last heard of
when Marilyn Monroe was in rompers.
As for those suburbs with three theatres
(rare), No. 3 digs up a brace of epics
nobody’s heard of —ever.
“Two Jays”: Inflation inflates ideas:
a couple of naughts don’t seem to
matter. The announcer giving the news
has just informed us that “juries are
awarding as much as twenty-million
pounds damages” in some accident cases.
A few months ago, a Victorian daily also
introduced some extra naughts in giving
news of the Wurdi Boluc reservoir. The
figures given made the extensions alone
more than double the area of Australia’s
largest weir, Eildon. Alas, it is more
likely that abstractions like £’s should
increase a hundredfold than that a fact
like a cubic-foot should grow by a mil-
lionth of an inch.
❖
“Black Out”: The cost of copyrighting
a book used to be ss. Now it is £l. Why
this sudden exorbitant rise? Are authors’
rights getting a rarity-value?
“You know, my wife doesn't understand me.”
“Kalewa”: During August lights
burn long into the night at the School of
Tactics and Administration, Seymour
(Vic.), as 47 Regular Army officers, ranks
of captain and major, study for examina-
tions. These exams., held every Septem-
ber, assess whether the officer knows
enough to attend the staff-college.
Students come from all Commands in
Australia and from New Guinea, Japan
and Korea to attend the preliminary five-
weeks’ coaching-ftourse. Under recipro-
cal arrangements, the half-dozen or so
highest-markers have the opportunity to
attend other British Commonwealth staff-
colleges at Camberley, U.K.; Kingston,
Canada ; Quetta, Pakistan; and Welling-
ton, India.
+ „
*** *** v
“Kune”: Does any country-town want
a nice second-hand archway? Manly,
Sydney, would jump at the chance of
getting rid of its ex-London Coronation-
arch, but can’t even give it away. The
group of local businessmen who, in a
fit of Queen’s-visit patriotism and at a
cost of £6OOO, had the thing transplanted
from Westminster to The Corso (Manly’s
main street) have been trying for months
to find it a new home, preferably in a
drier climate, because they’ve discovered
that Manly’s bracing sea-air doesn’t agree
with the arch’s steel-and-aluminium
constitution. Coonamble (N.S.W.), cele-
brating its centenary next month (Sep-
tember, 11 to 17), nibbled at the idea of
taking it, but the western citizens bucked
when they heard what it would cost —
£675! They’d have been up for £250
to pull it down, another £250 to re-erect
it, and £175 for the 400-miles’ haulage.
On top of that, after the centenary-shivoo
Coonamble would be in much the same
boat as Manly now is—in possession of
a structure which is no longer much of
an attraction. The best thing Manly can
do is to rip it down and put it in moth-
balls until the next Royal visit.
• * *%* ❖
“Wusslean”: Newly - weds, unless
brought-up together, speak different lan-
guages. Each is unfamiliar with the
family-dialect that has become the other’s
native tongue. I’ll never forget the
astounded look on my wife’s young face
when I suggested that she should serve-
up Smith’s Weekly for a change, adding
that it was our favorite dish at home —a
very tasty casserole-concoction, meat-
cubes and veges underneath, sliced pota-
toes and strips of bacon on top. When
we first had it, Mother said it hadn’t
any particular name, it was just a recipe
she had found in “Smith’s Weekly.”
We had it every Thursday for years, and
nobody ever called it anything else; so
the defunct “Smith’s” looks like being
commemorated in feasting by generations
of distant descendants.
❖ ❖
“Moorapi”: A New Australian railway-
porter in Melbourne has offered himself
as occupant of the first human-bearing
rocket bound for the moon, with only
one stipulation, that his family in Yugo-
slavia collect a quarter-million sterling
if he doesn’t come back —the first time
anyone has demanded payment for shoot-
ing the moon.
❖ ❖ ❖
“St. Ruth”: If Judith Anderson is
given the right publicity for her “Medea”
(“Coogee,” B. 17/8/’55) it should prove
to be a popular as well as an artistic
success. Anyone who heard the gorgeous
record made by the great actress in what
is regarded in America as her finest role
will want to see her “Medea” in person.
Judging by the wonder of her voice,
which left this humble listener spell-
bound, she is Medea, and to hear her is
to know what classical Greek drama
meant.
♦+4 ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Watt Thyme”: Travelled by train
from Adelaide to Broken Hill a couple of
weeks ago and sought out a barber, who,
while tearing the soot-laden fungus from
my face with the aid of a blade produced
by the Zinc Corporation, somehow
sensed that I was a southerner (how could
he tell?). “Ad’lid?” he queried. “Yes,’
I replied. “Train on time ’smomin’.” It
was a statement.. “No,” I contradicted,
“two hours late.” The argument ended
with “That’s what I said —on time s ”
THE NEWEST PANACEA
“Sheikh Abdul Rahman Tagg, head of the
1000-year-old Mohammedan University of
AJ Azhar, says polygamy is the cure for all
the ills of the world.”
The big garage-bill you’ve just got;
That last hole where you took a nine;
The badly-rehashed movie-plot;
Women who praise things as “divine,!”
The things you must have “authorised” —
Such nuisances as plague your lives
Could all be greatly minimised
By simple measure; be advised:
Acquire a quiverful of wives.
And even in the wider spheres
Thq benefits could be immense;
Politicians, bereft of fears,
Might sit no longer on a fence;
Iron Curtains could give place to lace,
Tanks could be hammered into houses ;
Great profit for the human race
Must follow when all men embrace
A multiplicity of spouses.
Increased demand (more to be clad)
Would make for really full employ-
ment;
More to take orders from must add
Extensively to man’s enjoyment.
He’d never get in any strife,
Unless too rashly he’d compare ’em.
Much free advice (you bet your life )
He’d get on choosing one more wife
When adding to his growing harem.
Not enough wives to go around,
You say? Well, when all men are
brothers
In this Utopia ’twill be found
They’ll share quite gladly one-
another’s.
Pleasant the picture Abdul paints
Of mankind, when all prospects please;
His life unhampered by restraints,
And married to a mob of saints.
But this heads cynics’ strong complaints:
The cure’s far worse than the disease !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


A COSIER idea than a fireplace with a
pivot-back (B. 17/8/’55) was the
sofa with a similar mechanism. During
World War I a mate and I were intro-
duced to a club of some dubiety in Lon-
don’s Bloomsbury. We were warming-up
on a bottle of champagne and admiring
three lovelies sitting on a couch against
the wall when, on the sound of a warning
buzzer, our glasses were snatched from
our hands, and we found ourselves con-
fronting a respectable-looking old gent.,
reclining on a sofa reading David
Copperfield —l wonder if Edward VII
thought that one up, too?—“Muskeen.”
❖ * *
“0.W.W.”: At Coromandel (N.Z.)
High School two platoons of girls are
learning to handle Service-rifles, and plan
to compete with boy cadets for the Im-
perial Challenge Shield. They are being
instructed by a W.0.l who calls them
“Cadet Waacs,” and declares they are
keener than the male cadets ; but some
parents are objecting to their gentle
daughters becoming little Annie Oakleys.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bass”: A Perth woman who failed
to reveal her own adultery when applying
for a divorce was committed for con-
tempt, but was released without a penalty.
She also got her decree. But her lawyer
copped the lot. When the woman first
sought advice the solicitor told her that
she would have to disclose her own mat-
rimonial offences and apply for the
court’s discretion. Later, when giving in-
structions to proceed with the case, she
gave the necessary statement of fact to
the solicitor’s secretary, and the admission
of adultery was omitted because the
woman thought she would be required
to make that in court. Judge said the
lawyer was paid legal practitioner’s costs
for preparing documents, which, in this
case, had been drawn-up by an incom-
petent person; he ruled that the solicitor
should pay his client’s costs.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Zorok”: The merchandising culture
of the repeat-order from the satisfied
customer no doubt inspired the- com-
plete repetition of the same article on
both pages 11 and 22 of the Sydney “Sun-
day Telegraph” (21/8/’55). The article
was “She Ordered a Soulmate C.0.D.,”
on the buying-potential of Sears Roe-
buck, the American chain-store mammoth
which is entering the Sydney retail field.
The catchline seemed to be prophetic—
“lt Could Happen Here.” The “Herald”
will no doubt retaliate by reprinting the
same indictment of Parliamentary jailings
three times in the one issue, instead of
once a week as heretofore.
+> ♦>
“Delta”: Old-style copying-presses
(“Ceg,” B. 17/8/’55) bring their original
price today from bookbinders and those
who desire a cheap form of etching-press.
Books have been printed by their aid.
One who resorted to this expedient in his
early ventures into the printing craft was
John T. Kirtley, who later established
the Fanfrolico Press.
• • • • « K
“Simon”: Another use for copying-
presses is in leather trades, for moulding.
They can often take the place of a screw-
press costing £6O. The damp leather is
put in an upper and lower die and then
set in the press.
* ❖ *
“Taggerty”: David Picton’s par. (B.
17/8/’55) brings back to an old Light
Horseman the night at Port Said in 1918
when “Tibby” Watson, of the 2nd A.L.H.,
fought Nicholson, a Tommy, for light-
weight championship of Egypt. The two
had already fought a draw and both
had a big following. A Tommy officer
remarked to his mate, “I would like to
have £2O on Nicholson.” “I’ll set y’,”
said a big Aussie with a roll like the
M.C.C. roller. “But I only have three-
pounds,” said the T.O. “I’ll set that,”
replied the Aussie, who, I am certain,
was the Alexander George Mackay men-
tioned in Picton’s paragraph. He col-
lected, too, as “Tibby” won on points
after 15 rounds.
“0.G.”: At Sydney’s “Women’s
Weekly” portrait-exhibition, looking at
a Dobell painting, “I would like to see
that boy at breakfast,” a man remarked.
“Why?” I asked. “To watch his neck
swell out every time he swallowed a rice-
bubble,” said the philistine.
*j>
“C.P.G.”: Those passengers crossing
the Equator (“Burr Imul,” B. 22/6/’55)
aren’t the only ones having the satisfac-
tion of crossing'something they can’t see.
Thirty Tasmanian tourists lately travelled
3350 miles simply to cross the Tropic of
Capricorn. After leaving Alice Springs
they headed for home after “crossing the
line” by going for a drive along the
Darwin highway. Thus they could say
they had been in the tropics.
“Killar”: I visited an elderly friend who
was confined to bed and unlikely to rise
again, except as Faith provides. When
I arrived the entire family was gathered
at the bedside while the local clergyman
was turning the pages of the Scriptures.
How beautiful, 1 thought: “At eventide
it shall be light,” etc. But I was wrong.
He was not after words of comfort, but
was trying to help them elucidate the
latest crossword!
♦♦♦ * &
“Hallcraft”: In response to what they
describe' as “the resurgence of religious
feeling and practice in America today,”
a toymaking co. is putting on sale a knee-
jointed doll that can be made to “kneel
in a praying position.” All it needs now
is a prayer-wheel.
* ❖ *Z*
“8.C.”: “Here lies the grief of a fond
mother and the blasted expectations of
an indulgent father.” This unusual
epitaph was copied from a century-old
tombstone in a tiny churchyard during a
recent tour of the Apple Isle. The loca-
tion eludes me —was it Buckland?
*i* »>
“Wusslean”: During 17 years of mar-
ried life the cost of rearing our brood
has kept us woefully behind the times.
When we at length acquired a gas-copper
and a water-powered drying gadget, every
other family, according to my wife, pos-
sessed a washing-machine; our ice-box
“ What's the matter, Andrew? Aren't you enjoying the show?"
still does duty for the dream-refrigerator
we may hope to own some day, and
shortly after we laid down wall-to-wall
carpet we learned to our regret that
w.-to-w. was outmoded, carpet-squares
and fancy occasional mats being “all the
rage nowadays.” When I bought materials
to make kitchen cupboards and built-in
benches, as illustrated in the home-
magazines, my wife was delighted at the
prospect of having a really modern
kitchen at last. Yesterday the blow fell;
the glossy mag. my wife keeps up-to-date
on announced proudly that it had the
dinkum oil on American kitchen-design.
The very latest, it seems, is to do away
with all those brightly painted cupboards
that conceal your kitchen-props., and
have everything on open shelves or hang-
ing from the walls, right where you can
see it at a glance. “No more searching
through all your cupboards—keep your
pots and dishes under your eyes all the
time” is the edict of the most advanced
kitchen-architects, I think I’ll hold off
on those cupboards for a while; by the
time I had them up we’d be right back
to the good old-fashioned pantry.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Mark Thyme”: Don’t take any notice
of my eldest brother “Justin Thyme”
(B, 10/8/’55). He only just avoided
embarrassing our mother as his
name indicates) and has been out
of place ever since. “Quondong” (B.
27/7/’55) was right in his assumption
that the term “spin,” in relation to our
fiver, has swy origin. In any self-
respecting Diggers’ school, that was the
price of the kip. Mind you, officers’
schools usually started a spin with a
dollar. The Old Man’s first-born is well
astray again with “toadskin.” In the
bow-and-arrow war the greenback of
French currency simply had to be a
frogskin—what else could it be?
Synonymous dubbing of ours of the same
hue followed as a matter of course.
❖. ❖ ❖ s
“Vingter”: With trepidation engen-
dered by hair-raising tales of jostling of
motorists by the truck-driving gentry I
tackled the drive from Melbourne to
Brisbane. At 7 a.m. in the freezing hills
between Yass and Gunning my car ran
out of petrol. A few minutes later
the driver of a diesel Behemoth
halted and apologised because he
had no petrol to give me and could not
tow me because he was heading in the
opposite direction. Hardly had he left
when another diesel job, headed towards
Sydney, halted and took me in tow.
Some miles along the road the tow-rope
parted, and the Good Samaritan, unaware
that he had jettisoned me, disappeared
over a rise. Half-an-hour later I was
astounded to see him travelling back
towards me. He halted, put his huge semi-
trailer about on a steep pinch in a manner
that would have been beyond me in a
midget car, took me again in tow and
hauled me safely to Gunning. I made a
genuine gesture with folding-money which
he, with equal sincerity and some pro-
fanity, declined. On the Sydney-Brisbane
run, twice halted to change tyres, I was
passed by dozens of private motorists,
but not a single transport went by without
stopping to offer help.
❖ ❖ *>
“Sixtoes”: It was a long, featureless
road, the sort that drives a man to
children’s games like “horse” and “count-
ing the birds.” So I cheered up at the
sight, in the distance, of a very smart,
town-dressed potential passenger with the
right sort of body and undercarriage, and
complete with suitcase. Pulled up
smartly and smiling. It might have been
thanks she murmured as she got in. I
played the conventional opening-gambit,
“Going far?” Quite a minute later she
said, “Along the road.” My move then:
“A lovely day.” There was no reply to
that. We drove in grim silence for the
next five miles, to where a track went off
to a farm on the left. She made signs of
departure. I let her out, helped her with
her bag and got all ready to say, “Don’t
mention it,” when she blurted out, “And
wasn’t yesterday corker, too!” Shock-
ingly shy or definitely dumb —I haven’t
worked it out yet. %
ALLOWANCE
Time was, my sweet, our love complete,
We billed and cooed in beatitude . . .
But rapture soon
Relaxes.
And now, alas ! as years pass
Your mien my humor
Taxes.
Let’s not explore first causes, or
Wherefores, or whys Love’s magic dies;
Such folly leads to
Ruction.
Yet l confess, dear, on Form S,
You’re still a nice
Deduction !
N.S.W.
P. O. M. C.
AN INTERPRETER'S HEADACHE
EDUCATION is often a matter of
vocabulary. The more knowledgeable
person excels by the number of words at
his command.
The average man or woman needs 5000
words to make himself understood. Twice
the figure is at the disposal of lawyers,
doctors and clergy to impress, inspire,
condemn or bore you. The Authorised
Version of the Bible uses 7200 different
words. Shakspeare, giant of literature,
expressed tens, of thousands of ideas
with 24,000 different words, using 5000
only once.
Yet, lack of words can spell not
poverty of intellect, but riches of life!
A recent medical survey discovered
that in some parts of central Bolivia
mental-disturbance was so uncommon
the people had no word to describe it.
However hard the doctors tried to define
the disease, the local people just did not
understand. Their vocabulary, as their
lives, lacked insanity.
In Gaelic there exists no neuter gender,
as everything among the Irish seems to
have life! Eskimos cannot talk about
war, as they lack the word as well as the
experience. “Goddess” is totally un-
translatable into Hebrew, a fact even
more remarkable as in the history of
early religion the sex played no insig-
nificant part.
Most of us would never be happy
among the Red Indians and could hardly
make ourselves understood —the Sioux
language possessed no swearwords of any
description!
To seek for missing words is a most
intriguing task. The headache of inter-
preters, they are the pride of people.
Once found, no one will claim them as
their lost property. Their lack spells
riches and wisdom, immunity from folly,
superstition and disease. Ideas which
are inconceivable become untranslatable.
After all, words should be weighed and
not counted.
R. RRASCH.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Twenty-seven years back Roy Gilmore
Ellis left Adelaide for a year’s post-
graduate course in dentistry at Toronto
(Canada) University. Landed back on
his native strand the other day—having
added (a) wife and two nippers, (b) Pro-
fessorship of Operating Dentistry at
Toronto, (c) Deanship of the Faculty.
• •
A Duntroon man and War II para-
trooper, Lieut.-Colonel D. G. Sharp gets
command of Australian troops bound for
Malaya. Two-icky of the Ist Battalion,
Australian Royals in Korea (0.8. E.),
he goes north from a staff-appointment
at headquarters, Tasmanian Command.
He’s 35.
• •
As suggested in this likeness below,
W. D. Ferguson rates the alert intelli-
gence of the self-made businessman and
a quick sense of humor. Now vice-presi-
dent of the South Australian Chamber
of Manufactures, for years he’s been
managing-director of one of the State’s
largest enterprises, Chrysler Australia,
Ltd. A Canadian (model 1902) who
began conventionally, emptying office-
baskets for Maxwell-Chalmers, a Canuck
car-firm later absorbed by Chrysler,
young Ferguson shifted to the hub of the
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN MOTORS
industry, Detroit, to General Motors, and
later the people. In 1925
he joined Chrysler, and within six years
was their factory rep. in Australia. In
a succession of mergers, and wheeling
ever upwards, he became m.-d. of what
is now Chrysler Australia, Ltd., in 1947.
He rose to vice-president of the chamber
only a bit over two years after first join-
ing the council.
• •
Lighthousemen all around Australia
know Cornelius Flynn (retired from the
job of procurement officer for the Marine
Branch) as a friend of long standing. His
means of communication was the little
supply-steamer Cape York, which pounds
round the coast and lands stores through
the boiling surf in all weathers. Forty-
six years in the Commonwealth Public
Service, Flynn has been 14 years in the
Victorian branch of the Department of
Shipping and Transport, acting as friend,
adviser and errand-boy to the light-crews
and their families. Invitations to spend
a holiday on lighthouses from Gabo to
Leeuwin have poured in on him,
• •
P. G. Law, the bearded, dapper Direc-
tor of Australian Antarctic Exploration,
predicts an unprecedented assault on the
frozen continent in the next open-season
for exploration. More than 25 expedi-
tions are planned, with 35 countries par-
ticipating. The U.K. and New Zealand
scheme to cross the continent from one
side to the other, the U.S. plans to set
up a base on Graham Land and build an
air-base for heavy aircraft, .and Russia,
Norway, Belgium, France, Chile, the
Argentine, Germany, South Africa and
Japan all have schemes under their hats.
All parties will be inter-connected with
radio-communication, but Law will be
surprised if the whole offensive passes off
without a catastrophe of major propor-
tions. Australia is well in on the rush—
a station already there and in operation,
with a staff experienced in almost every-
thing Polar exploration has to offer.
Russia, incidentally, plans to set up three
stations spaced at intervals down to the
Pole. By 1959, Law predicts, pretty well
every part of the cold continent will have
been investigated.
Appointed an additional Crown Prose-
cutor to speed-up Melbourne court-
proceedings, Robert Austin Bidstrup is
one of Victoria’s brilliant young Gent.
Ones. Practising since 1935 as a solicitor
and barrister on the common-law side,
he has been briefed to act as Crown
Prosecutor, defending officer and judge
advocate. Head of the school at Mel-
bourne Grammar in 1928, he won first
colors in football, cricket and athletics
there and was a full blue in football at
Melbourne University.
e •
“Watsonia”: Federated Farmers of
New Zealand has been heaping deserved
encomiums on William Walter Mulhol-
land, of Darfield, Canterbury, who has
completed 50 years of working in the in-
terests of rural organisations. It wasn’t
counted extravagant for one speaker to
rate him “the Churchill of New Zealand
farming.” Still farming a mile or so from
where he was bora close on 70 years
ago, Mulholland took on his first job of
the kind in 1904, secretary of the local
branch of the Farmers’ Union, of which
he was Dominion president for its last
decade. Australia can take credit for the
F.U.’s replacement by Federated
Farmers. Mulholland and Walter Horro-
bin (now chairman of the Wool Board)
were among delegates to a conference of
Empire producers in Sydney in 1938.
They were struck by the fact that, though
Australia had by far the biggest delega-
tion, there were so many groups with
trumpets to blow it was practically in-
effective. New Zealand at the time also
had a rash of rural organisations, and
Mulholland was wise enough to see they
could easily drift on a similar reef. He
and Horrobin delved deeply; the solu-
tion came from Westralia, the only State
with an overall organisation and provi-
sion for all rural interests. So it became
the model, except that F.F., which took
about eight years to launch, has no politi-
cal status. Now stronger than ever, with
almost 50,000 members, it is a resonant
voice in the land —which is what Mul-
holland, back in 1938, resolved it should
be. Appropriately, he’s a life-member.
• •
In Australia for the second time in
recent years, L. H. Bird, cereal-chemist at
the new Agricultural Research Institute
at Wagga (N.S.W.). Formerly senior
chemist at the Wheat Research Institute,
Christchurch (N.Z.), where he began in
1937, he was last in Australia between
1941-45, seconded to the Commonwealth
Munitions Supply Laboratory.
• •
“Pip Tok”; Krips met Krips when
Professor Joseph Krips, of the Vienna
Academy of Music, stepped off the
Qantas liner at Perth airport, to be greeted
by brother Henry, A.B.C. conductor and
composer. Joseph will conduct 26 con-
certs for the A.B.C. The brothers last
met two years ago, when Henry was in
London on study-leave and Joseph was
resident-conductor of London Symphony
Orchestra. Henry, conducting for the
A.B.C. since the Hitlerian discord, is no
longer a New Australian. He wore
Digger’s khaki in the war, and his com-
position, “This Land of Mine,” won the
Commonwealth Jubilee competition for
a national song.
• •
“C. 8.”: Gone on in the U.S., Wilfred
White, one of Melbourne’s most distin-
guished products, son of William White,
who pioneered shipbuilding on Port
Phillip. One of the first he built was a
flat-bottomed ketch which sceptics nick-
named “White’s Coffin.” It was broken
up just before the late war after more
than half-a-century braving the rips of
Bass Strait. Son Wilfred carried his in-
terest in ships to Lord Kelvin’s labora-
tories in England, where he studied the
new forms of nautical instruments and
aids to navigation. He then took his
experience to Boston, to found, with Lord
Kelvin, a firm which has since designed
and manufactured navigation instru-
ments for Uncle Sam’s Navy, submarines
and the mercantile marine and for many
notable ships, including the Roosevelt, in
which Admiral Peary sailed to discover
the North Pole; also the compass used
by Graham White in his pioneer flight
in England in 1900. Wilfred White also
designed the radio-direction compass
and was consulted by Sir Hubert Wilkins
when he proposed to get to the Pole
underwater. He visited Melbourne after
the war and saw his father’s “coffm”-boat
still afloat at Williamstown. Another
invention of his was the spherical
magnetic compass.
“R.R.T.”: Artist George Benson is
doing a series of panels and murals at
Kwinana, all right (B. 10/8/’55), but not
“for the Shell company.” Kwinana, of
course, is owned and operated by Aus-
tralasian Petroleum Refinery, Ltd., an
associate of C.O.R.’s parent company,
British Petroleum.
• •
At two years over the allotted span,
Canon H. P. Finnis has written finis to
his 28 years as Bishop’s Vicar at St.
Peter’s Cathedral, Adelaide. Well-known
South Australian musician and Australian
representative of the Royal School of
Church Music, M.A. and Bachelor of
Music, he was ordained in St. Paul’s
Cathedral, Melbourne, in 1908, and
resigned as Rector of St. John’s, Adelaide,
to become Bishop’s Vicar at the Cathe-
dral in 1927. Nine years later he was
appointed organist and choirmaster at
the Cathedral. A composer of hymns,
descants, anthems and voluntaries (one
of which last-named he wrote and played
specially for the Queen’s visit), he has
been a member of the council of St.
Mark’s College, Adelaide University,
since its inception in 1925.
• •
Retired to the quiet of the North
Auckland (N.Z.) coast, after more than
40 years in education, L. W. Delph.
Educated at Cambridge and Toronto
(U.S.), he soldiered with the Sappers in
War I and has good reason for remem-
bering the Australians —was wounded
with them. Recovered, he had the Sigs.
cable-troop with the Australian Mounted
Division in Palestine through the Jerusa-
leni-Jordan phases, and laid a cable on
the heels of the Beersheba charge, for
which he collected M.C. Later he was
with the selected small group under
Me Andrew which bluffed the Turks out
of Aleppo. In Hitler’s bid Delph raised
and commanded a four-battalion group
of Home Guard. Most of his teaching
career has been in three top schools —
Upper Canada College, King’s Auckland
and New Plymouth High. For the last
seven years, as agricultural instructor to
the northernmost hundred schools in New
Zealand, he’s been preaching the gospel
of better farming and gardening and,
above all, better treatment of animals.
• •
Notes on a baritone:
Always a bathroom baritone, when he gave
up writing advertising-copy and selling radios
in Sydney to sew on the red-and-blue-diamond
patch of Seventh Div. Artillery John Cameron
packed an album of Schubert in his kitbag. In
Tel Aviv he made friends with a Hitler-hating
German-Jew who ran a small cabaret in the
Palestine capital, and now and again the young
Digger would oblige the cabaret customers
with an extract from his kitbag.
Came New Guinea and surveying gun-sites
at Milne' Bay. Up a tree, hacking vines there-
from, the back of his hand getting in the
road and it getting hacked. In his two-months’
hospital-time in Moresby he amused other
patients by singing lieder and negro spirituals.
An Army Education captain happened to hear
him. Enthusiastic, the A.E. chap insisted on
Cameron joining his group, giving recitals to
troops throughout the northern islands.
Warmed by his mentor’s emphatic belief in
his singing future, Cameron took a rehab.-
course immediately after the war. He was
taught by Madame Mathy, now teaching at
Sydney Con.; he’s deeply grateful to Madame,
HOMING BARITONE
and her interest was justified—in 1946 he sang
with Georges Thill, the French singer then
touring for the A.8.C.; since then it’s been
a brilliant soaring upward.
Goossens suggested London: within three
months Cameron was singing in “Traviata” at
Covent Garden, the start of three years of
principal roles there.
He’s back home now from singing with the
Glyndebourne Opera, and, under A.B.C. asgis
again, is touring with the Sydney and Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestras. That done, the
erstwhile Digger cabaret-singer goes back to
an engagement with Sir Thomas Beecham at
London’s Festival Hall.
Bound for England in carrier Venge-
ance (her crew will bring back the new
light fleet-carrier Melbourne), artist (and
naval captain) Woolcott met an officer
resplendent in the uniform of the King’s
Royal Hussars coming aboard for pas-
sage to Singapore. Clipped Guards
moustache, apparently English to the
ramrod core —till he spoke: which proved
David Charles Boyall (herewith) a
Sydneyite, schooled at Knox, and a year
at Sydney University before Duntroon
AUSTRALIAN HUSSAR
in 1944. He returned to the university
to complete his economics course; the
soldiering urge won over commerce, and
he crossed to England, joining the Cold-
stream Guards as a guardsman. Obvi-
ously a cut above average ; commissioned
in the 3rd Hussars, in 1948 served in
occupied Germany, transferred to his
present regiment the following year, and
with it fought in Korea. Two further
years in Germany from 1952, then, last
year, he wound-up in Malaya. In Ven-
geance he gave a graphic lecture on
fighting terrorists in that country, an art
with which he had intimate contact.
• •
Harold Clive Newman, Auditor-
General in succession to J. Brophy, is an
Adelaide man who has been stationed at
Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, since 1947
as assistant-secretary in charge of Defence
Division. In various capacities he has
served in most parts of Australia since he
joined the Commonwealth public service
from Adelaide School of Mines in 1910;
served in Egypt, Palestine and on Galli-
poli from 1914 till he Was discharged
through wounds in 1917. For most of
War II he was chief finance officer of the
defence division of the Commonwealth
Treasury.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Bendigo, at 53, Arthur Hill Cambridge,
former champion amateur sculler of Aus-
tralia, Melbourne league-footballer, outstand-
ing golfer and bowler, master-printer and Old
Digger, and Master of the Bells at St. Paul’s
Church of England, Bendigo. Proprietor of the
Cambridge Press in that city, he had been
president of the Chamber of Commerce and
was elected president of the South Bendigo
Bowling Club the night before his death.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 74, James McDer-
mott, authority on N.Z. poet Tom Bracken.
He rescued “God Defend New Zealand”
(words by Bracken, music by J. J. Woods)
from oblivion, bought records of the song
as played by the N.S.W. Police-band and dis-
tributed them among radio-stations. Peter
Dawson and Ernest McKinley both sang it.
Fifteen years ago McDermott induced the
Government to acquire the copyright and make
it New Zealand’s national song. He joined
the Post and Telegraph Department as a
message-boy and became chief-engineer in 1935.
In Ehgland, at 57, Sir John Hanham, between
1930-32 aide-de-camp to Lord Bledisloe, then
Governor-General of New Zealand. The tenth
baronet, Sir John was a foundation-member ot
the Royal Numismatic Society of N.Z.
At Hawera (N.Z.), at 106, William George
White, son of an English banker and himself
branch-manager for , years with the Bank of
New Zealand. Landing at New Plymouth
when that city was a garrison-town, he after-
wards travelled widely overseas, building up a
valuable collection of Worcestershire and
Chelsea china, in 1945 given, to the Auckland
Museum.
At 76, in Melbourne, Norman Horace
Baillieu, of the sharebroking firm of E. L. and
C. Baillieu. A leading philanthropist, he
combined with his brothers in the Anzac
Hostel at Brighton (Vic.) and in the Baillieu
Research Scholarships throughout Australian
universities. He also helped set-up the Baillieu
Laboratory at Melbourne University. He was
a great racing-man.
In Sydney, Dan J. Aldous, old-timer in the
electrical-business. He started selling news-
papers in Melbourne, and retired from his own
electrical-contracting business in Sydney s
Redfern. In his later years he had an unusual
hobby. Fascinated by Sydney’s early history,
he built models of old buildings, monuments,
churches and so on, facing the metal frame-
work with crushed stone and other materials
obtained from any of, them still existing. He
mounted the models in boxes, in which he
painted appropriate • scenic-backgrounds.
At 80, in Melbourne, Sir Edwin Nixon,
chartered accountant. Director of Finance,
Munitions Department, in the late war, he had
previously been chairman of Supply and
Development’s advisory-panel. He was born
in the Channel Islands.


KEEPING UP (AND IN) WITH THE JONESES


ARORIGINALITIES
'T'HOUGH an airfield taxi-track may
not be exactly the Queen’s highway,
courtesy can reign on it just the same.
The latest prize should go to an airline
pilot who, when taxiing out for take-off,
suddenly stood on the brakes and called
the tower, saying there was an “obstruc-
tion” on the runway. Through the glasses
I saw it—a wild-duck and her six duck-
lings crossing the strip. Not until Mama
and kids were safely and sedately clear
did the engines roar into full life.—
“Civar.”
* * * *
“Coringa”: Killed on the property of
A. B. Mason, of Oakey (Q.), a death-
adder 3ft. 6in. long and lOin. round the
girth. A 30in. one is usually regarded as
a whopper. Another record gone?
* * * *
“Sixtoes”: Who owns the migratory
birds? Once again the Maoriland Gov-
ernment has taken action in a case of
godwits being shot, and again defending
counsel has claimed that this bird, by
virtue of its breeding in Siberia, is a
Russian bird and so should be fair game
in New Zealand. He even claimed that it
enjoyed some protection while in the
northern wastes. Against this, a Govern-
ment official claimed that the godwit
visiting New Zealand is mainly from
Alaska. His Worship ruled that, rightly
or wrongly, the N.Z. law must stand,
and, once again, defendants found their
poultry a bit expensive.
* * * *
“Avon”: An instructor of an aero-
club tells me of a farmer, keen to fly
his own aircraft, who plans to make it
his normal means of transport, since he
lost his car-driving licence for being
drunk in charge.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The reed-warblers
are bursting into song again—sure sign
of a return of the breeding-season, what-
ever the weather says about spring—and
I can understand the early Dutch navi-
gators thinking they were nightingales.
They’re sweeter singers than any aviary
bird, and the fact that they’re seldom
seen makes the song even more alluring.
They live in the reeds, and their drab
color makes them almost invisible; the
most you see are flashes of brown as they
flit amongst the rushes, because they’re
never still. The nest is a masterpiece.
Selecting a few strong reeds standing to-
gether, they strip other reeds and wind
the pieces in and out amongst the chosen
supports, forming a deep, cup-shaped nest
with the entrance curved inwards and
"narrowed, so that the nest could be
almost completely inverted before eggs
or young would fall out. The nest isn’t
lined and doesn’t need to be, it’s so well
constructed. The eggs, usually four,,are
yellow-brown with blotches of pale-blue.
* * * * ;
“Morayda”: We were branding cattle
in a yard and had the mare saddled out-
side in case of emergency. Her foal was
nervously watching the branding, when
a calf crashed into the fence close by,
causing the youngster to throw back his
head, and with it lift the mare’s reins off
the post. The foal started to walk away,
the reins jerked, the mare shied and the-
foal started off. He pulled Mum for
about quarter-of-a-mile before the
puzzled animals were caught.
* * * *
“G.E.H.”: The radio-adventures of
one High-Chin Bob, a cowboy, con-
tained an episode with a mountain-lion.
Leo suddenly appeared in a Western
town, and there were loud calls for
H.-C.B. and his lasso the gunmen
were apparently all away hunting sheriffs
or something. H.-C.B. justified their
confidence by dragging the lion to death
amidst much noise. I mention this to
you as The Bulletin has a sort of pro-
prietary interest in these doings. “High-
Chin Bob” was printed on the Red
Page of Dec. 6, 1917, as “Poetry, U.S.A.”
I get the date from my scrapbook—the
words are in my memory—and some-
body else seems to have come across it
lately.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Round my way certain
eucalypts have been flowering profusely,
and attracting great attention from the
birds. Many nomads, among them the
swift-parrot, have arrived for the feast.
Easily startled, and keeping mostly to the
treetops, the swift-parrot is a hard bird
to study. In addition, it’s one of bird-
land’s fastest flyers. You hear a screech-
ing high overhead, and look up to see a
green-red blur flashing past. The swift
and the falcon are probably the only
birds that could outpace it.
* * * *
“H.W.”: Hinakura, from Whatawhata,
tapped on my door holding in two hands
an enormous, squat red kumera, the
Maori sweet-potato. It was the shape of
a Buddha; its wrinkled eyes patterned
in pockets of iron-black soil were like
her own embowered in swarthy tattoo.
“How much?” I asked. “Trousers,”
Hinakura replied; “big ones.” I told
her I had given her the last spare pair
for the blackberries, but handed over mV
old henna hat, telling her it would do
for one of the girls. Later, I saw the cart
piled high with sacks of clothing, Hina-
kura aloft nursing some object. “Kapai
te kumera,” she yelled, displaying the
pet kumera, holding it up like some
“ Hm'm'm—in a built-up area!”
Maori wooden god. The whole contrap-
tion looked like something by Heath-
Robinson. The tyres were loose, harness
rattled, the horse was streaked with clay
and the women were convulsed. Then
I saw why. The kumera wore my henna
hat.
*'* * *
“Helldud”: More unusual than that
Moreton Bay fig growing out of a cedar-
stump (B. 3/ 8 / ’55) is a hefty specimen
(over 30 years old to my knowledge),
which adorns the top of a 60ft. chimney
at the side of Adams’ Hotel, in Sydney’s
Pitt-street. The seed was no doubt de-
posited there by a bird.
* * * *
“Woorana”: Its closest relative the
cuckoo, the pheasant-coucal has about it
something reminiscent of reptilian an-
cestry, a kind of missing-link between
scales and feathers. Certainly, when you
sight it, with its long tail, drab plumage,
and lizardlike head, creeping on its stout
legs almost imperceptibly through tangled
undergrowth the picture is reptilian
rather than avian. This impression is
reinforced when it takes wing (always
with the utmost reluctance), for the
flight is so clumsy and lacking in buoy-
ancy that one thinks inevitably of the
pterodactyl, that winged reptile with bird-
like skull which flopped about the world
aeons ago. ♦'
* # * *
“Konmak”: Has the abo. more resist-
ance than his white brother to death-
adder venom? A while back 4QN ran a
news-item from Cape York Peninsula
about one (a woman) who, bitten by an
adder, instantly incised and
sucked the wound and suffered
no ill-effects whatever. Also,
an attractive, intelligent black
house-girl I knew at Blue
Mountains, a tiny, isolated
northern mining-settlement, en-
tertained me several times with
the dramatic recital of a similar
escape, illustrating it with a
scarred black heel. She would
tell how “that fella adder, that
putta, bin stick tight, bin bite
poor Min good and proper.”
Her faithful spouse (“That fella
George, him bin love Min
plenty”) had to pull the reptile
off with his bare hands and
batter its head in before using
the anti-snakebite outfit the
Missus insisted on his carrying.
Min was sick for three days—
“close up finish that time” —but
had many important moments
afterwards recounting how “bad
fella putta, him bin sit down
longa leaves on road,” and all
the rest of it. She had a happy
feeling of security, too; so
much venom had been pumped
into her system by the snake
that “bin stick, and stick, and
stick” that she must have lifelong
immunity.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: If there is a Valhalla for
old brickies who have laid down their
trowels, my dad is chuckling over the
recent pars, about whisky being poured
into boots as a remedy for sore feet,
and retelling a yarn about an inci-
dent which occurred when the Chinese
Masonic Hall was being built in Sydney
around 1912. A beam fell across a
laborer’s leg, causing severe contusions.
While the injured man’s mates were still
wondering what to do about it, one of
the Chinese interested in the building
dashed across to the pub and brought
back a bottle of whisky. “Rub um in
leg,” he counselled. “Make um alii’.”
The victim was carried into the shed for
the purpose. Did the spirit justify its
esteem in the Oriental mind? It did not.
The bottle was declared a job “perk” and
passed around to all hands. The injury
responded well—to applications of cold
water.
# * * *
“Door Mat”: At a Far North pub a
notice outside the dining-room ordered:
“Men must wear at least a singlet for
meals.” They asked even more at
another, where a visiting bishop was
pulled-up by the door-boy because his
Lordship had discarded his collar and put
on an open shirt; the temperature was
well over the 100. The boy dutifully told
the mufti-Bishop he “couldn’t do that
there here,” and hauled him off to a
room to select a tie. What the Bishop’s
cobbers said —they had gone straight in
quite respectable—when his Lordship
marched in with a glaring red tie is quite
unparsonic and not to be quoted.
* * * •
“Allan B.”: The old scrub’s getting less
like its old self every day. E.g., in Victoria
it’s going all air-minded with new ait-
services, and a firm called Southern Air-
lines expects to have two De Havilland
Dove eight - passenger airliners on
country flits. The first will fly on the
Melbourne - Echuca - Balranald route.
Services are also planned for Shepparton,
Bairnsdale, Ballarat and Ararat.
* * * *
BUILT in 1839 at a cost of £l4OO (£4OO
over estimate), the 60ft.-by-40ft.
Macquarie Hall, Macquarie-street, Parra-
matta, has fallen under the demolisher’s
pick. Its roof principals, built of 13in.-
by-9in. ironbark, pit-sawn and adzed,
spanning 40ft., are as sound as the day
they were erected and have been sold
for use in a new factory at Bankstown.
Hand-made, chisel-pointed square
nails were used in varying lengths, and
some I gathered on the job show little
signs of rust. Its walls were 18in. thick,
built of locally-made sandstock bricks
9in.-by-4iin.-by-21in. A feature was the
brickwork in the circular-headed arches
over window-openings. Bricks here were
specially made and measured 131 in. long,
4|in. wide, and tapered, top 2|in.,
bottom 2in.
The damp-course was of 61b. lead, and
the original floor was replaced only eight
years ago. Sashes of beautiful red cedar
are in a wonderful state of preservation,
and already have been incorporated in a
local green-house.
PONGO.
THE GIBBER PLAINS
There is a richness in the harvest here.
The apricots are gone, and duchess pears
Fall in the thickness of the summer grass;
Then peaches, dripping redness at the stone,
Richer than fire that smoulders in the stumps
Under the blackened hills. And almonds stand
Like half a million birds with grey, soft wings
Taking the summer air, watching the grapes
That burden emerald miles about this place.
In the old orchard now the sweet-briar blows
A breath of spice and roses. Lichened trees,
Wet and dried in eighty summers now,
Cluster the apples thick about grey boughs
Gnarled and weighed and promising with fruit
Small, pale and acid yet, but storing sun.
Miles deep the harvest lies beyond the sea;
A splendid, tangled fringe of gold and green
About the continent.
A richness that
The north has never known, where now
The hammer of the sun cracks up the stone
That undermines the mountain, and the red
Rich sand shows up by day the little tracks
Of all the million creatures that live there —
Nocturnal lives, now that the summer burns
The very lizards from the varnished rocks.
But that is real, that land. Thousands of miles
Of gibbers, bindi-eye and sand, where crows
Can find best living, and the eagles spread
Their wings above the ancient plains
That have known man from out the caves of
Time.
Give me the silent richness of that land,
Which, changeless, lies under the bleaching
blue
Vast sky, give me the shimmering distances,
The ochre of the sandhills and the space
That brings the understanding and the peace
That men who fringe this coast will never know.
S.A,
IRENE GOUGH.


il lONEL LINDSAY’S Cobb and Co.
coach stamp inevitably calls to mind
Edward Devine, better known as
Cabbage-tree Ned. He drove for Cobb
and Co. on the Sydney-Bathurst run
and back for over 50 years, and for most
of that time wore the same hat.. It was
a wide-brimmed lid plaited of cabbage-
palm “straw,” and was made in Parra-
matta for the London International Ex-
hibition of 1851. On its return to Sydney
it was presented to Devine, and it saw
the dawn of the 20th century. No wonder
importers put the cabbage-tree hat out
of use. It lasted too long.—“Bulletina.”
* * * *
“Ranji”: Observations made on my
letter-delivery round during a week of
gales in Melbourne have convinced me
that the man-caused bird-mortality rate
is higher in rough weather. I saw more
dead birds on the road in a day than I
would normally see in a week. Appar-
ently the high wind smothers the sound
of approaching cars, and when the birds
do sense the danger the wind affects
their take-off.
* * * *
“Pip Tok”: Latest queer fish to find
a permanent place in Perth Museum is
a shark-ray, or bow-mouthed angel-fish,
which came from Broome. A six-footer
with a broad rounded head as its widest
part, it has a body tapering to the sort
of tail worn by sharks. The pectoral-fins
are small for a ray of that length, and
the front dorsal is on the rear of the body,
but not on the tail, where rays usually
carry their dorsals. Other unusual fea-
tures are two bony crests below the eyes,
and five behind what might be termed the
front part of the body. Color-scheme is
“Must find 'em—only lower-left molar-forceps I've got!"
dark-grey wtih half-inch white spots. It’s
a warm-water fish, with a swimming-
range stretching from East Africa to
China.
* * * *
“Rinso”: Fair enough that lurk of
imitating a dog’s bark to persuade a team
of milkers to return home (B. 20/7/’55),
but I knew a dairy-cocky who had a
more reliable method —his mimicry took
the form of Ferdinand’s love-call. Love,
after all (or so the romantic-novelists tell
us), is far stronger than fear.
* * * *
“Kenyas”: Neighbors over the way
decided to keep Angora rabbits, but
within a few days the animals escaped
and settled in our garden, where they
sport among fish-fern, watsonia and aga-
panthus. Already I’ve seen a brown one,
a grey, a black and a white, but don’t ask
me what their full strength is. The
owners, anxious to have them back, asked
if they might hunt for them, and it’s no
novelty to see the entire family (in
dressing-gowns) in hot pursuit before
breakfast. Also, the dogs of the vicinity
have learned of the rabbits. They scale
the fences and mow down the vegetables
like Aymy-tanks as they course after the
Angoras. With the advent of the hounds
the domestic cat’s hitherto placid exis-
tence has changed to one fraught with
constant danger—he, emulating Simon
Stylites, now spends his time on top of
posts or in the trees. There’s but one
bright spot —we are assured Angoras
don’t breed as prolifically as their
humbler brethren. Kind Heaven grant
it’s true!
* * * *
“Kelms”: In 1885 the Duracks drove
2000-head of cattle from a station on the
Barcoo to one they founded on the Ord
River in the Kimberleys. They did 2500
miles in a little over two years and got
their stock through in good condition.
They were the first white settlers to travel
through a lot of that country. Now the
trip is being planned in reverse. Alan
Goldman, who bought Moola Bulla
station near Hall’s Creek from the W.A.
Government, will overland 3600 bullocks
to Moree (N.S.W.). On present reckon-
ing the route will be through East Kim-
berley, across the Northern Territory,
down through Boulia and Charleville and
into New South Wales.
* * * *
“Motuku”: “Saaedi’s” peewee (B.
3/8/’55) isn’t the only bird that dunks
his scran. Old Crook-neck, the great
egret that often perched on the roof of
the hut on the creek-bank, with a kink
that gave his head and neck the outline
of a long-handled sickle, could swallow
dead six-inch mullet only if he took
them into the water and sloshed them
round first. The saltwater, though not an
ultra-modern detergent and lubricant,
seemed to serve both purposes, and with
him “dunking” became a regular habit.
* * * *
“Fuzzy-Wuzzy”: Returning from a
recce of the Duna country, north-west
of Tari, New Guinea, a patrol reported
a lot of interesting native customs, in-
cluding the wearing of wigs by all except
the oldest men. The standard dress of
the men is a waistband of cane, bark
or string, a sporran of woven string and
a bunch of leaves at the back. Each man
invariably carries a string-bag slung
across the back and tied over the chest,
“in which he keeps his bamboo pipe, fire-
making implements, food and small per-
sonal articles.” This should suggest a
solution for those who reckon their
tailors never give them enough pockets.
* * *
“Archaen”: Among aboriginal arti-
facts received from an amateur collector
the S.A. Museum has found something
which has the experts scratching their
heads. Ploughed up in a field at Chiel,
near Woodstock (N.S.W.), it is a digging-
implement, 2ft. lin. long and l|in. in
diameter. One end comes to a conical
point, the other has a chisel-edge. The
digging-stick, of course, was the com-
monest of all aboriginal tools —but this
one is made from stone. It isn’t a natural
formation of rock; it was first chipped
into shape, then presumably tapped all
over with a hard stone until it was cylin-
drical from end to end. The point and
chisel-edge were made by grinding, as
was done with the familiar stone-toma-
hawk, while years of use have given a
polish to the parts gripped by the hands,
Nothing like it has been recorded before
in Australia. Ethnologist H. M. Cooper
is writing a scientific paper to describe it,
and if anything else of the kind ever turns
up from the same area the finder will be
amply rewarded if he sends it to the S.A.
Museum. It is only too likely, however,
that it is one of those freak implements
which have had so profound an effect on
“Unless you join th' Painters' Union I'll declare the job black."
human living. Similar departures from
the orthodox gave us the bow, the arrow
with feather vanes, the wheel and the
plough, and ultimately led to civilisation.
* * * *
“Sack”: A bloke in the gang* asked
the trick-quiz: A man stands between
a horse and a cow —facing the same way
as the horse and on the near side of both
—which way is the cow facing? After
much debate it was established that the
cow would be facing the same way as the
horse, since the near-side of a cow is
the reverse of a horse’s near-side. That
led to another. The expression “off-
sider” comes from bullock-team days:
the offsider’s job was to walk beside a
raw team on the off-side and, when the
order was shouted, push the leaders over
by placing the handle of his whip across
their necks; thus they were taught to
understand shouted orders. All right;
now what was the off-side of a bullock-
team? And if it was the same side as
a horse-team’s, what made a bullock’s
off-side the opposite to a cow’s? We’re
still arguing it out.
* * * *
“C.P.G.”: Whisky isn’t the only brew
to be used as a hair-restorer (B. 3/8/’55).
The wife of the publican at Mount St.
Samuel, 300 miles north of Kalgoorlie
(W.A.), in the early years of the century
always used champagne as a shampoo—
and in those days it was three-smackers a
bottle. So when a drover with a fat
cheque turned-up and demanded the very
best Bung did the honors with sherry-and-
sodawater. It looked like pink cham-
pagne, and to the drouthy drover
probably tasted like it.
ABOVE SUNNYSIDE
Go on by Sunnyside to Razorback
Through the long light-step of the catch-breath
gums
With no rusted sheet-iron roofing a rabbit’s
bolt
Or smashed bottles or old geraniums,
But mountain, bush and sky and lingering snow
In the cracks of the rocks that top Mount
Wills.
And here, from a snow-gum’s fork, look to
the Mitta
Over the valleys and the creeks and hills.
These once were the torn skirts of Sunnyside;
There, men gave its magic name to Quart-pot
Creek;
There Gill’s Glen runs, unmuddied under the
tree-ferns;
There the Wombat and Five-mile and the
Greek.
And under in the shadow of the Mount
What once was Sunnyside is bush again—
Ghost town with a ghost’s voice . . . where on
the Merrimac
The lyrebird dollies a phantom specimen . . .
N.S.W,
A. McD. CAMERON.
A "DIG" TREE IS RESCUED
'T'HE DIG Tree has been salvaged—not
the one in the Centre inscribed by
the Burke and Wills party in 1861, but
the veteran on Queensland’s Mackenzie
River which Leichhardt’s men marked
during their unhappy trek of 1847.
I made some remarks concerning the
Mackenzie tree when writing in The
Bulletin last year (27/l/’54) on his-
toric trees in general. Having been in-
formed by Alister Archer, laird of Rock-
hampton’s old Gracemere station, that
the specimen was in a sorry condition
and likely to be lost, I suggested that
Queensland should follow the example of
various N. S. Wales Governments by
having the inscribed portion preserved
in a museum.
That proposal has now been put into
effect. By direction of the Government,
natives from the Woorabinda Aboriginal
Settlement felled the weather-wom trunk
recently and sent the inscribed portion to
Brisbane, where it came to rest in
stead House, headquarters and museum
of the Historical Society of Queensland.
Obviously, the decision to fell the tree
was not made in haste. There were, in
fact, objections raised against the project,
but these collapsed when it became
evident that if the inscription was not
salvaged, and that fairly smartly, it would
follow into oblivion various other “tree-
autographs”'left by explorers in Queens-
land and elsewhere.
Now, no doubt, the ghosts of the men
chiefly responsible for cutting the inscrip-
tion and digging the hole, botanist Dan
Bunce and surveyor John Mann —to say
nothing of the wraith of Leichhardt him-
self —can rest in peace over this curious
matter.
I say “curious” because various mis-
conceptions regarding the Mackenzie tree
have persisted along the years. Only
recently, for example, a contributor to a
Sydney paper, when mentioning the pro-
posal to salvage the relic, not only
got his dates and expeditions mixed, but
ended with the statement that, in spite
of the inscription, “no message or pack-
age has ever been found, and the reason
for the word ‘Dig’ remains a mystery.”
There is no “mystery.” What hap-
pened was that when Leichhardt, flushed
by the unexpected success of his first
expedition (1844-45), got together a sound
party and started out again, from the
Darling Downs, at the end of 1846, he
soon ran into troubles of various kinds,
partly through bad weather and partly
through his own muddling. Thus when
the party reached the Mackenzie it was
distinctly frayed, and on March 25, 1847,
Bunce dug a hole at the foot of a tree
and buried a number of letters in a
powder-canister; and then the men cut
into the trunk the word DIG, with an
arrow pointing downward.
Those letters, Bunce recorded later, in-
cluded one by Leichhardt “representing
the miserable and helpless condition of
the party,” and some few by others of the
company. Naturally, the hole was
smoothed over to safeguard the cache
from aborigines.
The expedition did not get far north of
that point. It was, in fact, marooned for
several weeks in a “hospital camp”—an
extraordinary set-up which, in all its
phases, ranks as one of the most fan-
tastic oddments in Australian history.
Then, having resolved to give the game
away, the party turned southward.
On June 22,the wanderers were back
again at the I3IG tree, and, finding that
the ground had not been disturbed, they
disinterred their documentary hoard. To
their surprise, the letters were found to
be almost illegible—within three months
they had become, probably through damp
air getting into the canister, as frayed
as the expedition itself.
Nine years later (1856) the explorer
A. C. Gregory passed that way and saw
the word DIG, with the directing arrow
pointing downward. His party dug, but
nothing, and because he reported
the fact in his published journal the im-
pression arose that some raiders, pro-
bably aborigines, had taken the canister.
The persisting of that impression into
modem times indicates that certain
writers have never looked at John Mann’s
brisk little story of the expedition (pub-
lished in 1888), which makes quite clear
the fact that the Leichhardtians them-
selves disinterred their hoard.
Anyway, the DIG Tree pf the Mac-
kenzie is now safely housed. Inevitably,
it is not now so impressive as the most
distinctive of Leichhardt-marked trees,
one (dated 1844) that flourishes in the
centre of Queensland’s township of
Taroom; but, of course, it is still a
worth-while relic, and for that reason
and because of its failing health and out-
of-the-way site, its removal to Brisbane
was abundantly justified.
A. H. CHISHOLM.


TRAVEL ROYAL . TO ALL SIX CONTINENTS
PI
3!
\ :
■a.
'•c
You pay no extra on 8.0.A.C.
©
esuc
Luxury First-class Services across the World
Experienced world travellers know
that the name Majestic—on the
8.0.A.C. International Network—is
a symbol of luxury air travel at
its superlative best, backed by
extra personal attention and
impeccable service in the finest
British tradition. Incomparable
cuisine and bar service, roomy
sleeping berths on many routes
available at slightly extra charge.
Plan world travel by 8.0.A.C.
—one ticket all the way.
Book from Australia to Indonesia, Malaya, Burma, Thailand, Hong
Kong, Japan, Ceylon, India, Pakistan, Middle East, Africa, Europe,
Britain, U.S.A., Canada, Central and South America, Bermuda.
Information and reservations' from all leading Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. ( 8.0.A.C . General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
A55/AU
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—-
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £3 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Business, Rollery, Etc.
INFLATION BACK AGAIN
Treasurer fadden’s
Budget speech and the
report on the national income
for 1954-55 support the fore-
casts and estimates made in
these pages over the past nine
months. Rural incomes are
down ; the trade-balance for the
year was heavily against Aus-
tralia ; consumer - spending,
much of it of a luxury nature, has
outstripped the capacity of the
country to produce, and has
sucked in excessive imports as
well as creating “consumer in-
flation” ; all this has happened
in the face of credit-strain,
though bank-credit is still being
expanded; there is overfull em-
ployment, with some scarcities
of labor and materials ; and “our
central preoccupation in Aus-
tralia should be the level of costs
in our industries During
recent times, when our level of
costs has started to rise again,
costs and prices in many of the
major countries abroad have
been stable, and in some cases
they have even been tending to
fall.”
Sir Arthur Fadden blames ex-
cessive competition for labor and
materials as the “one main
reason” for renewed costs-
inflation, and uses his contention
as the reason for his Govern-
ment not wanting, at this stage,
to provide “incentives for in-
vestment or to spend millions on
providing basic facilities for in-
dustries if the whole gain, and
more than the whole gain, in
terms of costs is to be nullified
by the driving-up of costs in a
process of cutthroat competi-
tion.”
While such an argument may
suit a Federal Treasurer who has
surveyed the politico-economic
battlefield and noted grimly the
constitutional problems con-
fronting him (taking concrete
shape in the form of State
“Labor” Governments), as well
as the arbitration and trade-
union set-up, and who has de-
cided that he must campaign
under extraordinary disadvant-
ages, let him not belittle too
much “new techniques, modern-
isation of plant and following-
out efficiency systems.” It is
because Australia is a backward
country industrially (as well as
politically) that it is lagging
behind other countries in its in-
ability to stabilise its costs.
All Australian Governments,
including the Menzies-Fadden
Governments, have, through
their taxation policies, encour-
aged spending at the expense of
the savers and investors. In this
country right now we have far
too much consumer-spending
and not enough saving and in-
vestment. Our production per
man-hour is too low and our
working-week is too short. The
40-hour week is the fundamental
cause of our high costs. It is the
prime cause of our shortage of
manpower and materials; it lies
behind nearly everything the
Treasurer complains about. And
no amount of credit-restriction,
on the one hand, or credit-expan-
sion, on the other, will cure the
situation. Somehow or other the
average Australian must pro-
duce more per working-week
unless we are to remain in a
chronic state of hot-and-cold
economic fever.
There are good economic
reasons for not making general
reductions in taxation at the
present time. There is every
reason to try to achieve
s monetary stability. And the
more useful public works we can
’ pay for out of revenue the better.
But let nobody be blinded to
the true facts of our economic
situation. There is probably a
natural reluctance in Canberra
circles at the present time to call
a spade a spade, or even to
admit that standards of living
and economic stability depend
upon work and productivity. We
live in an age when Socialist poli-
ticians resort to the most un-
scrupulous economic policies,
and anyone who talks honest
commonsense in reply to them
gets little support. In the circum-
stances it may be understandable
why Treasurer Fadden shied
away from first causes in
explaining his deliberately con-
servative Budget, which gave no
tax-concesssions to anyone, and
which does nothing to overcome
inequities arising through
company-taxation. But the real
facts of the case should go on
the record somewhere.
There is a good deal of political
expediency in the Fadden £lOOO-
- Budget. Very little of it
is the Treasurer’s own fault. He
has had to estimate how far he
can be an economist and how
far he must be a politician in
the face of State “Labor” Gov-
ernments possessing great
sovereign powers but no prin-
ciples worth a hoot and an
electorate which has shown little
initiative itself in wanting to do
the right—if temporarily un-
pleasant—thing.
Probably the Budget, too, is
framed in a manner to suit
bureaucratic convenience the
easiest way of collecting taxes
is the approved way, whatever
the cost and inconvenience to the
nation as a whole. Thus there is
no relief in the double-taxation
of dividends (that would bother
the Taxation Department, even
though U.K. and Canadian tax
authorities have to put up with
such bother) and there remains
the completely unjustifiable
payroll-tax (the employer has to
collect it as well as pay it).
One can’t help feeling that
there exists a sort of psycho-
logical Canberra Club, where
politicians and top public ser-
vants see to it that they give each
other as much help and as little
bother as possible. Private enter-
prise is excluded from the club
because the problems of private
enterprise are an awful bore.
And no clubmen like bores, even
though they pay the taxes.
Treasurer Fadden, in conclud-
ing his economic survey, said,
with great truth: “Our diffi-
culties today are preponderantly
of local origin, and that is a
vitally important fact. If our
present troubles are of our own
causing, then the remedies must
be of our own devising.” In
devising our remedies it will be
necessary to seek some of the
ingredients beyond the precincts
of the Canberra Club.
A Mixed Bag
As The Bulletin forecast at
the beginning of the present
year, balance-sheets for 1954-55
are a much more mixed bag
than was the case for 1953-54.
Textile, clothing, hosiery and
refrigerator manufacturers have
had a tough tussle in many cases,
and more figures are to come.
Old-established basic industries
are faring best, and some of these
are showing much better figures
for 1954-55 than they did for
the preceding year.
The State of the Nation
In a year notable for its
variable economic winds, land-,
men had the worst run during
1954-55 —that is, by comparison
with previous years. Australian
net farm income (excluding
properties owned by companies)
fell by £72 million during the
period, and that followed a drop
of £4l million in the previous
year. The net farm income of
£4BO million compared with
£709 million in the boom year
of 1950-51. And that indicates
to some extent the burden which
those people who bought
properties at prices based on
1951 incomes are now carrying.
Last year’s national farm
income was the lowest since
1949-50, when the basic wage
averaged about £8 a week. It
is now about £l2 a week.
Costs were partly responsible
for the drop in farm income last
year. But gross output also fell
in value, largely because of the
decline in wool-returns and the
drop in the wheat-yield. Sub-
stantial increases in the value of
meat and butter produced
failed to balance the position.
Other sectors of the economy
mostly showed increased in-
comes. Wages and salaries rose
by about 6 p.c., the same as in
the previous year. The number
of persons employed rose 3 p.c.
(2j p.c. preceding year). There
has been an average increase in
monetary earnings per person
of about 4} p.c. over the past
two years. Company income
last year is yet undetermined,
but an increase of about 10 p.c.
seems indicated, as against 20
p.c. in the preceding term.
The national income rose at
a diminishing rate over the past
three years—lo p.c. in 1952-53,
7 p.c. in 1953-54 and 5 p.c. in
1954-55. The slowing-down
over the past two years in par-
ticular has been associated with
the absence of any large infla-
tion of internal prices and with
a fall in export prices amount-
ing to 11 p.c. Income from
exports fell 7 p.c. last term,
while imports rose to the second-
highest figure on record.
Whereas the level of Govern-
ment expenditure on public
works has remained fairly
stationary at around £4OO mil-
lion in each year since 1951-52,
gross private investment has
been rising steadily. Last year
the figure was £833 million
for fixed capital - equipment —
private - dwelling construction
£195 million, other new build-
ing and dwellipg-maintenance
£lOO million, trucks and utilities
£74 million, motor-cars and
cycles £lB2 million, other capital
equipment £282 million. The
striking thing about those
figures is that last year pleasure-
vehicles cost nearly as much as
new homes.
President Consolidated
President Consolidated, Ltd.,
which made a loss in its
last year, proposes to place
James N. Kirby Manufacturing
Pty., Ltd., in control of the
board for the next five years,
following an advance of £200,000
received from it. The advance
is in 6} p.c. second-debentures,
convertible into ords. at par at
any time before Dec. 31, 1958,
or before repayment of the
debentures, whichever is the
earlier.
Kirby’s have been supplying
President with its sealed units.
President has expanded swiftly
with the post-war boom in re-
frigerators, and has been hit by
the intense competition which
has lately developed in the trade.
Paid capital is now £1,055,429,
part of which was issued when
Thom and Smith, Ltd. (“Tasma”
radio), was taken over. Its rapid
expansion made it financially
vulnerable to slump. The
arrangement with Kirby’s seems
to be a fortunate one.
Associated Pulp
With a final distribution of
5 p.c., div. from Associated
Pulp and Paper Mills (Burnie,
Tas.) for the year to June 30
rises to 9 p.c., compared with
7 p.c. in the preceding term. The
co. has had a year of full order-
books, and its increasing effi-
ciency on the production side
is now paying-off. The present
term looks like being a busy
one also.


THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
f
1
m
m
m
ftfE
•Vi
'"m
wm
■>k
V
The bonk is ever alert to the
problems of the business world
The varied requirements of industry and com-
merce call for co-operation and understanding
between banker and customer.
As a result of its long experience, this bank
which is owned and staffed by Australians—brings
a broad and sympathetic understanding to the
problems of the businessman.
The bank’s officers at Head Office, or at your
nearest branch, will be glad to tell you how its
services can help you.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
NOW OPEN
AN ISSUE AT PAR OF
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT TERM
Interest (per annum) Currency
4i°/<
o 12 months
4% . . * . . 9 months
3|%. i s s i 6 months
3J%. ia. . 3 months
LONG TERM
Interest (per annum) Currency
6i7<
0 10 &15 years
6%.... 4 to 9 years
5J% ...... 3 years
5% 2 years
Interest payable quarterly free of exchange
Assets exceed £36,000,000
Prospectus may be obtained from
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES,
All Branches of the
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LTD.,
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD., and
Industrial Acceptance Corporation
LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES VICTORIA QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA WESTERN AUSTRALIA TASMANIA
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne and Sydney
For public information. This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an
invitation to the public to subscribe for the Stock mentioned herein.
London aiunail
From Herbert Holman
SUMMER is giving out, chilly
and overcast and damp. But
there is this distinction: its
decline marks a late and
sudden change of character. For
once, summer —and spring, too
—have been exemplary. A long,
almost unbroken, spell of fine
weather has blessed our holi-
days. Except for a disastrous
thunderstorm at Ascot, sport-
ing events have taken their
course without interruption,
even to the finish v of a Test
(with not a single drop of rain)
at Old Trafford.
It is unique that Britain
should have been so well
favored, for, while holiday-
makers have enjoyed fine
weather in such notorious
watersheds as the Lake District
and the Trossachs, others on
the Continent have suffered
floods and cold winds.
But what singles out this
summer from others is the
astonishing popularity of motor-
ing. An estimate of 110,000
car-bookings to the Continent is
probably an understatement.
Weekend passages, both by
boat- and plane-ferry, were
taken up months in advance.
At peak times no fewer than
1500 cars a day must have been
leaving and entering the coun-
try with assembly-belt precision
and mainly from the South
Coast.
The great increase in the
number of privately-owned cars
is not surprising. Petrol-ration-
ing is a near-distant memory
and, of course, there is plenty
of money to spend. It is no less
surprising that the “real”
motorist —the man who uses
his car for business and who
enjoyed an aristocratic privilege
of the open road when petrol
was scarce —is often thankful to
lock his car away when business
is done, sighing nostalgically for
the good old days. For three-
mile queues at bottlenecks and
on the Brighton and Blackpool
roads are normal corollaries of
a bright weekend. One has also
heard of holidfy-makers at the
quieter Devon resorts being
isolated, by the sheer density of
traffic, from neighboring
coastal towns and of a 200-mile
return journey which, for the
same reason, occupied 15 hours.
Upward, Ever Upward
With the autumn conferences
approaching, the wages front is
massing for its yearly offensive.
The 39 shipbuilding and
engineering unions have already
laid a barrage with a vague but
formidable three-pronged de-
mand for “substantial” wage-
increases, a working - week
reduced from 44 to 40 hours,
and three weeks’ holiday with
pay.
The union spokesmen, whose
prestige naturally depends upon
their success in gaining awards,
are as fluent and persuasive as
ever, although some of their
arguments have greater force
in the conference-chamber than
in the cold light outside. In any
case, the struggle is not an up-
hill one, for it is now well
established that the worker in
a prosperous industry is entitled
to his share. This principle is
even endorsed by a Tory Gov-
ernment which goes out of its
way to encourage profit-sharing
schemes. But these are viewed
with suspicion by many trade-
unionists and, since they are
flagrantly capitalistic, abhorred
by the doctrinaire Socialist.
Apart from the inflationary
pressure, the chief danger in the
granting of flat increases on a
fixed scale lies in the nature of
the industry, which is anything
but homogeneous. There are
some three million workers
concerned, and they are all
lumped * together, whether they
are employed by vast and
wealthy organisations such as
Vickers or Rolls-Royce or a
one-man affair in an old barn.
What one firm can stand com-
fortably another can ill-afford.
Whatever the arguments for
and against, the demand for a
third week’s holiday with pay
is, at least, free from hypocrisy.
This cannot be said of the call
for a shorter working-week nor
of the anxiety, mainly among
the Communists, that systematic
overtime is bad for the worker’s
health. For, as everybody
knows, shorter fixed hours
mean more overtime and dis-
proportionately more pay, since
the average working-week is
nearer 50 hours than 40. The
object of the other tactic is
partly to interfere with produc-
tion and partly to create an issue
which may conveniently be
used later on to cause trouble.
In the recent past overtime has
readily served as the provoca-
tion for unrest.
Other claims are expected
from railwaymen, miners and
transport-workers. And, in the
meantime, the Treasury is
recoiling from a severe and
ironic shock in the form of an
award to 600,000 civil servants
amounting to £l5 million a year.
This was granted above its head
and hard upon the Chancellor’s
announcement that, as part of
his “squeeze,” he would cut
down Government expenditure.
Oh, Lear!
The Stratford - on - Avon
“away” team is at the Palace
Theatre for a short season with
“Much Ado About Nothing”
and “King Lear.” “Much Ado”
is a modification of an inspired
production that charmed the
West End four years ago.
“Lear” is quite new. Its inno-
vation is so striking as to take
the breath away, but not, alas,
because of its artistic worth.
A programme-note states that
the object of the production is
“to find a setting and costumes
free of historical or decorative
associations so that the time-
less, universal and mythical
quality of the story may be
clear” and “to present the. places
and the characters in a very
simple and basic manner.” The
result could not be a more
emphatic denial of these com-
mendable expressions.
Isamu Noguchi, the Japanese-
American designer, has contri-
buted a decor which, with
alarming immediacy, suggests a
ballet, “Dan Dare’s Space
Party” or “The Shape That
Things Have Come To.” The
men carry arched saddles on
their shoulders and wear tyre-
like protuberances around their
middles. The King’s gown is
apparently composed of quoits
or magician’s rings and the
nobles’ armor of Jacob’s-
ladders. One obtrusive and
enigmatic property has been
described by a leading dramatic
critic as a “golden and celestial
lavatory-seat.” It looks like
nothing else.
The simple abstraction of the
huge, chunky, moving scenery
has some symbolic purpose, but
the effect is ruined by over-
elaboration : a mysterious
triangular block shuffles about
under its own power and other
properties ascend, like ghosts,
steeply into the heavens.
So, instead of the play “com-
ing to life through the words
and the acting,” as intended, the
players have to compete against
the weird trappings. They lose.
A similar experiment with one
of the well-known comedies
might be justified as a novelty,
even if a cranky one. But with
a rarely-performed tragedy,
considered to be unactable, it is
a pitiable aberration of artistic
reason.
Nonetheless, John Gielgud’s
Lear will be remembered. He
is not too senile, never stagey
and a mental rather than physi-
cal ruin, but he does not
dominate the play. Goneril
(Helen Cherry) and Regan
(Moira Lister) are callous, for-
bidding creatures of such amaz-
ing get-up and stark definition
as sometimes to recall the Ugly
Sisters. Cordelia (Claire Bloom)
by her simple garb escapes the
fantastication, and her trans-
parent purity of acting, especially
in the tent scene, is radiant.
Perhaps there will never be a
wholly satisfying “King Lear.”
The central character is not one
to command sympathy, the con-
struction'is poor, and the play,
as Charles Lamb said, is hard
and stony. This production is
no step-forward.


Act now to protect YOUR ESTATE through the years ahead
s s •-->
ism*
y^y-'
For your dependants’ sake you have a duty to appoint an
experienced Executor —such as the Union Trustee Company.
During nearly 70 years of administration of every class of
estate the Company has amassed a fund of experience such as
no one person could achieve in a lifetime. To pastoralists,
the expert services of the Company’s Pastoral Inspectors in
each of the three Eastern States is readily available —to provide
valuable “local” knowledge.
Union Trustee services are comprehensive, charges are
moderate. A senior officer will gladly explain these services
at a personal interview —or you may prefer to write for a
copy of the Company’s free booklet, “Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established ISBS
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton and Charleville
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
W. R. Carpenter and Co., Ltd.
npHE high reputation which Carpenter’s
scrip enjoys in the market rests on
the pleasing performance of the group,
especially since the war, as a profit-
earner, dividend-payer and distributor of
largesse, as well as upon its obvious
strength, financial and otherwise.
The • organisation consists of parent
holding co. and a score, or thereabouts, of
subsidiaries engaged in shipping, insur-
ance and a wide range of merchandising
and other activities in areas extending
from New Guinea out over the South Seas
to Fiji, and to London and Vancouver,
too. For the most part the curtain is kept
drawn over the figures of the offshoots,
whose profits are taken into the parent’s
books only to the extent of dividends
received. The history of the under-
taking suggests there has always been
more wheat in the ear than the eye could
see.
Though war interrupted a flow of 10
p.c. divs., the co.’s Fiji interests kept
the pot boiling, and a steady 5 p.c. was
paid for the five years to 1946, followed
by 7f, 9, 10, two lots of 20 p.c., and then
15 p.c. for the four years to the close of
last accounts. Meanwhile (in 1948) share-
holders had half their capital returned,
without impairing the earning-power of
the organisation. Then, in 1951, share
capital was doubled by a one-for-one
issue of bonus-scrip, which lifted paid
capital to £850,000, at which figure it has
remained. The 15 p.c. div. is thus worth
30 p.c. on capital as it stood before the
gift, which came from a reserve of
£463,445 created by writing-up the book-
value of shares in subsidiaries by a like
amount.
Last term an investment reserve of
£644,544 was brought from hiding and
put in the window —it was previously
deducted from the book-value share in
subsidiaries in the published accounts.
Exactly what the board has in mind in
this connection the chairman will, no
doubt, explain at the annual roll-up on
September 30 next:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends. —— N serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1950 .. 82,591 20 p.c. = 80,000 2,591 470,348
Revaluation of assets, £463,445 .. 933,793
Reserves capitalised, £425,000 .. 508,793
1951 .. 102,887 20 p.c. = 81,260 21,637- 530,430
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 520,430
Prom tax reserves, £42,194 .. .. 562,624
1952 .. 139,013 15 p.c. = 127,500 11,513 574,137
1953 . . 141,345 15 ” ” 127,500 13,845 587,982
1954 .. 146,049 15 ” ” 127,500 18,549 606,531
Share premiums, £73,499 .. .. 680,030
Prom inner reserves, £644,544 .. 1,324,574
Unexplained addition, £88,481 .. 1,413,055
1955 .. 193,889 15 p.c. = 127,500 66,389 1,479,444
The year’s declared profit increased by
£57,840, reaching £193,889, or 22.8 p.c. on
capital as against 17.1, 16.6, 16.3 and 12.1
p.c. back to 1951. That was after making
an unexplained addition of £88,481 to
general reserves. Taking this addition
into the reckoning, the year’s profit was
£282,370, or 33.2 p.c. on capital. Where
the £73,499 of share-premiums came
from is not ascertainable from the pub-
lished accounts; paid capital remained
unchanged. Consolidated accounts of
parent and subsidiaries are not
published.
Anticipating its benefits the market
lengthened its bid for the f.-p. ss. shares
from 16s. 6d. to 20s. 6d. over the last
12 months. At the higher figure the .im-
mediate return would be only 3.4 p.c. on
a 15 p.c. div. basis. The investor who
looks for no more than 5.4 p.c. on his
money counts on a 22 p.c. distribution,
or a one-for-two bonus share-issue and
maintenance of the div. at 15 p.c., which
would then call for £191,250, or £2639
less profit than \yas claimed last term.
The board says “reports from affiliated
cos. in the various Pacific Islands indicate
that progress made during the year has
been good, with earnings favorable, and
that prospects for the ensuing year are
no less favorable.” Trade activity in the
islands, which depends largely upon con-
ditions in the copra, sugar and a number
of minor industries, is not subject to the
same set of economic, industrial and
fiscal influences as operate in Australia.
Here is the financial set-up of the
undertaking so far as the parent’s own
published accounts show it:
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. .. £850,000 £850,000
Reserves .. .. 606,531 1,479,444
Sundry creditors .. 288,517 810,167
Tax provision .. .. 19,808 17,596
War damage cr. .. 85,480
Pinal div. .. .. 63,750 63,750
£1,914,086 £2,720,957
Plant, etc 7,859 6,316
Investments .. .. 1,262,351 2,216,408
Stocks 25,770 13,473
Debtors, etc. .. .. 209,542 107,010
Cash, etc. .. .. 408,564 377,750
£1,914,086 £2,720,957
Investments consist of shares in subsidi-
aries £1,987,767 (up £1,001,119) and
shares in other cos. £228,641 (down
£47,062). Of the £1,001,119 increase in
the holding in subsidiaries, £644,544
represented disclosure of the investment
reserve already referred to, and the other
£356,575 actual growth in investment,
which, of course, augurs well for the
future of earnings. The creditor item
includes £278,426 due to subsidiaries,
and is therefore largely a family matter.
The parent still has plenty of ready cash
to take immediate advantage of any
trading opportunities that might offer.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
AT moderate charges, which yield little
I in the way of profit, the trustee cos.,
of which the Perpetual is Australia’s
largest, provide a wide range of essential
services calling for highly specialised
knowledge and experience. Apart from
the return on investment of their own
funds, which are also a protection for
clients, net earnings depend upon the
relative levels, charges, costs and volume
of business.
Pre-war the growth of business more
than took care of the growth in costs,
mainly wage-rates. After the war costs
won the race, being spurred by infla-
tionary pressures. The co.’s average net
earnings dropped from £29,052 (14.5 p.c.
on capital) for the five years to 1940
to £14,464 (7.2 p.c. on capital) for the
five years to the close of last accounts.
Indeed, during the two years to June 30,
1953, the co. was handling its trustee
business at less than cost.
However, the outlook changes in 1952,
following small increases in the scale of
statutory charges authorised by the
Trustee Companies Act. But the new
scale, like the old one, is static, and
applies only to new business. To what
extent the effects of creeping inflation
will again hamstring net earnings in the
trustee section remains to be seen. A
more equitable solution of the cos.’
problems would have been a formula
providing for a sliding scale of charges
based on officially ascertained costs, as
the “Wild Cat” pointed out at the time.
Including £4285 dropped into the
corpus commission reserve (£155,365),
which is the unearned portion of corpus
commissions, the co.’s all-in profit last
term was £24,194 (up £4944): •
Net Dividends, To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 12J p.c. serves. selves.
£ £ ,
1950 .. 28,180 25,000 3,180 304,534
1951 .. 17,973 16,000 1,973 306,507
1952 .. 586 8,000 299,093
1953 .. 10,359 11,000 298,422
8 p.c.
1954 . . 19,259 16,000 3,259 301,681
Freeholds revalued, £195,231 .. 496,912
To inner reserves, £12,000 .. 484,912
1955 . . 24,194 16,000 8,194 493,106
The amount available for immediate dis-
tribution was £19,909 (up £792), or 9.9
p.c. on the £200,000 of capital as against
9.5 p.c. for the previous term. The div.
was kept at 8 p.c.—it dropped from
12j- p.c. for the five years to 1950 to 8, 4
and p.c. for the three following terms.
The improvement in last term’s net
earnings was modest considering the
growth of the business and adjusted
commission-rates:
Year Exes.,
Ended Ex- P-c. of
June, Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
£ £ £ P-c.
1952 .. 73,603,774 320,878 322,996 100.7
1953 .. 72,849,723 329,055 316,435 96.2
1954 . . 71,597,904 347,845 328,728 94.5
1955 .. 73,925,788 357,012 337,103 94.4
The value of new estates entrusted to
the co.’s care exceeded the value of
those wound up by £2,327,884. Income
increased by £9167, of which exes,
gobbled all but £792.
During the year £12,000, previously
set aside as an investment reserve, was
whisked under cover. Also the book-
value of the co.’s premises was written-
up by £195,231, bringing it into line with
the official V.-G. figure, which is below
current market worth. This was done
with no object other than to display the
value of the asset, the chairman says.
Reserves were thus lifted to £493,106 at
June 30 last. So, on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the
year’s all-in profit was no more than
3.4 p.c.—over 1 p.c. less than can be had
from Government securities.
The co.’s own funds are employed in
this way:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. .. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Reserves .. .. 298,422 301,681 505,106
Creditors, etc.* .. 35,557 34,798 18,728
Final div 6,000 9,000 8,000
£539,979 £546,479 £731,834
Premises, etc 117,937 121,940 322,453
Mortgages, shares .. 85,956 89,008 134,282
Sundry debtors .. 2,228 2,423 2,009
Govt. securities .. 226,093 226,093 140,200
Cash, etc 107,765 106,015 132,890
£539,979 £645,479 £731,834
* Includes provision for income tax, etc.
Of the £200,513 increase in premises,
etc., all but £5OOO-odd was on account of
the writing-up already mentioned.
From the testator’s point of view,
current conditions call for a revision of
wills. Inflation, creeping or otherwise,
cuts across one of the prime objects of
all trust funds, namely, the maintenance
and safeguarding of income for future as
well as present beneficiaries. Also oppor-
tunities for maintaining and improving
the funds vary with the scope of the
trustee administering them. Hence the
need for insertion of a clause in wills
giving the trustee special powers in
relation to investments.
The market prices the co.’s £lO shares
paid to £2 each—£s of the remaining
£8 is a reserve liability callable only in
the event of liquidation—at 525. (625. a
year ago) to return 6.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover is
£6 18s. 7d.
Queensland Brewery (Brisbane)
TTNDER post-war pressure of popula-
tion growth—2o p.c. in Queensland
over the last eight years—as well as
buoyant economic conditions and free
spending, the expansion of brewery turn-
overs has been strong and persistent.
Among other things it has called for
substantial outlay on plant, and, in order
to anchor the bigger trading, or most of
it, a lot of money has also been spent
on buying up and improving hotel pro-
perties. But spiralling wage-rates, and
the mounting cost of hops, barley, sugar,
bottles, transport and other operating
costs, including excise, have gobbled most
of the gains. Still, it is doubtful whether
net earnings of this Queensland co. —
together with Castlemaine Perkins it
enjoys a lion’s share of the trade in the
northern State —have yet reaped the full
benefit from recent capital outlay.
For these and other reasons, including
the comfortable margins between
declared trading profits and distributions,
and the disclosure of £200,000 of inner
reserves over the last two years, the
market prices the co.’s f.-p. £1 ords. at
31s. 6d. (approximately same as a year
ago) to return 5.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis, or 6.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribution.
At 20s. 9d. the prefs.—they carry a
fixed cumulative 5£ p.c. and participate
in new share-issues —yield 5.3 p.c. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is £l4 Bs. lOd.
prefs. and 295. 9d. ords.
Over the last four years £748,334 of
fresh ord. capital has been issued at par.
The last £446,389 of it was gathered in
October, 1954, lifting paid capital to
£2,000,000 in 199,234 5| p.c. prefs. and
1,800,766 ords. Most of the £446,389
went into the brewery, hotels, plant, etc.
(up £325,441), which are the chief earn-
ing assets, making total additions thereto
over the last five years £1,116,009:
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £199,234 £199,234 £199,234
Ord 1,354,377 1,354,377 1,800,766
Reserves - .. 515,820 686,925 876,294
Creditors .. 765,287 921,632 665,145
Final divs. .. 50,293 66,426 77,510
£2,885,011 £3,228,594 £3,618,949
Brewery, hotels,
plant, etc. .. 2,286,553 2,618,740 2,844,181
Stocks . . .. 382,149 441,785 485,026
Book debts .. 209,169 260,929 282,602
Investments .. 7,140 7,140 7,140
£2,885,011 £3,228,594 £3,618,949
Stocks increased by £43,241 and book-
debts by £21,673, while £256,487 was
slashed off the amount coming to secured
and other creditors. The published
accounts provide no definite indication as
to just where the £lOO,OOO “transferred
from provision for contingencies” came
from. The financial position improved,
of course.
The number of hotels owned, and their
location, are not disclosed, nor are gross
profit or exes. Main factors behind the
spring of £33,737 (18.7 p.c.) in last term’s
trading profit were continued growth of
brewery turnover, and better returns from
hotel properties following capital outlay
of previous years. Statistics show a
6 p.c. (8.5 p.c. previous year) increase in
Australian output of beer for the year to
June 30 last, and production and distri-
bution costs were less troublesome than
in previous years:
t —Dividends— >
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5i p.c. 7 p.c. serves, serves.
1950.. 93,625 10,958 73,320 9,347 388,218
1951. .128,257 10,958 73,320 43,979 432,397
1952.. 127,730 10,958 76,295 40,477 472,674
1953. .138,554 10,968 84,449 43,147 515,821
From contingencies prov., £lOO,OOO 615,821
Profit sale assets, £10,365 .. .. 626,186
8 p.c.
1954. .180,048 10,958 108,350 60,740 686,926
Profit sale assets, £18,700 .. 705,626
From contingencies prov., £lOO,OOO 805,626
1955. .213,785 10,958 132,157 70,668 876,294
The £213,785 of profit, written after
allowing £96,063 (up £21,091) for depre-
ciation and unstated amounts for taxa-
tion and contingencies, leaves out of the
reckoning a capital profit of £18,700 on
sale of assets. It covered the pref. div.
and 12.3 p.c. on average ord. capital as
against 12.5, 10.6, 10.7, 11.2 and 7.9 p.c.
back to 1950. Disclosure of another
£lOO,OOO of inner reserves makes plain the
fact that profits have been conservatively
stated in the past, and there is no good
reason to suppose that any change of
policy in this respect has occurred.
With employment at the full and
immigration being stepped up, the output
and consumption of beer is expected to


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0,1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt. .
Mining Engineer
Australian Experience. Cur-
rently completing 32 months’
working study of mining opera-
tions in U.S. and Canada, in-
cluding visits to some 35 mines.
Seeks position, available De-
cember. Write “Miner,” C/o
A. R. M. GIBSON & MAC-
PHILLAMY, Solicitors, 43 Phillip
Street, Sydney.
Cyclone Company
of Australia Limited
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1910 of the State of Victoria on 9th February 1914)
REGISTERED OFFICE: Gipps Street, Abbotsford, Victor!*
ISSUE AT PAR OF
500,000 CUMULATIVE
PREFERENCE SHARES
OF £1 EACH
6%
NOW OPEN
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATION FORMS OBTAINABLE FROM:
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES
All Branches of
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Underwriting Brokers;
lAN POTTER & CO.
360 Collins Street . 31 Hunter Street
Melbourne Sydney
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
For public information only: This is not a Prospectus or an advertisement of a
Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to the public to subscribe
for the Preference Shares mentioned herein.
1P6.18
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages to be gained
by placing your Insurance in the care
of an experienced Firm of Insurance
Brokers and Supervisors.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWIIINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445.
FctUh lit Ihc
Future
m
.
If ever there was a monument to Faith
rewarded, it is in the great King Ranch in Texas,
U.S.A.
To visit its million-acre domain is fulfilment
of a cattle man’s dream; to see the excellence of
the organisation that has given the world a distinct
new beef breed in the Santa Gertrudis, is a
revelation.
It took Robert J. Kleberg, Jr., 30 years to
evolve an animal of Shorthorn-Brahman cross that
would yield more beef to the acre on South Texas
ranges than any other breed so far known.
But he did it, and the breed is spread now
through the United States and is in 18 other
countries, including Australia. Its merits are
recognised in Cuba and South America, where it is
making a big contribution to beef production under
humid, semi-tropical conditions.
How has this been possible? Through breeding
skills, in which the herdmasters have been well
advised by expert geneticists and veterinary
scientists. But also through a sense of business
management, and by a world-spiritedness that has
made the King Ranch willing to share its find with
others.
The Klebergs are a great family, and most
hospitable. Bob Kleberg gave me two days of his
busy time. He spoke fondly of his visit to
Australia, and of the great potential we have as a
beef producer, particularly in the North. He has
Faith in our Future.
The King Ranch breeds and uses its own
handsome horses. Some of its thoroughbreds have
taken off American racing classics.
It has concentrated on the propagation,
improvement and conservation of grasses. And in
this —as in the many branches of its organisation
—it has had the service of experienced research
workers.
It has its own modern housing for hundreds
of employees, and its own schools.
Small wonder that 35,000 visitors come each
year to see the fruits of one of the happiest and
most successful experiments of our time.
////<zs/u^g
7
further increase during the cur-
rent term. Chief cloud in the
co.’s sky at the moment is high
and rising wage and other costs,
which are likely to make off
with most of the\ anticipated
gain.
Cottee’s Passiona, Ltd.
■pORMED in 1927, the co.
-*• operated in a small way
until a few years ago, though
trading has been very profitable
during and since the war. Paid
capital, which advanced from
£20,000 in 1942 to £103,300 in
1950, is now £268,300. A par
issue of 46,700 new £1 ords., to
be offered, 23 for 100, to those
on the register at September 1,
will lift the figure to £315,000 in
65,000 5 p.c. redeemable prefs.
(held by the A.MP. Society) and
250,000 ords., of which 85,000
are bonus-shares issued in 1949
(20,000) and 1953 (65,000) from
reserves created by writing-up the
book-value of fixed assets. A
small block of 3300 £1 8 p.c.
prefs. has just been converted
into ords. on a par basis. For
the 11 years to 1952 —the year
when the scrip was listed in
Sydney ’Change—ord. divs.
averaged 17.8 p.c., mostly tax-
free, followed by 15, 16 and 15
p.c. for the three years to the
close of last accounts.
The business, which is well
spread throughout the eastern
States, falls broadly into two
divisions. One covers a range
of grocery, confectionery and
milk-bar lines, chiefly jams,
peanut - butter, jellies, fruit-
spreads, etc.; the other com-
prises four franchised cos., in
which the parent holds part of
the capital. These cds. were
formed only a few years ago
to carbonate and bottle
“Passiona” and other Cottee’s
fruit juices in Sydney, Brisbane,
Melbourne and Perth, and are
making good progress as profit-
earners in a very competitive
field. Both the parent and fran-
chised cos. have established sell-
ing agencies in country districts
in the various States.
The 12 months to March 31
last was a prosperous period, in
which there was a marked in-
crease in turnover. After allow-
ing £20,295 (up £3331) for
depreciation and £48,000 (up
£25,000) for taxation—these
allowances have not been
skimped net earnings were
£17,834 stronger at £61,727:
< Dividends —^
Prefs.
5 & 8 Re-
Mch.,Prft. p.c. f Ord. serves.
£ £ £ £
Revaluation assets, £65,000 .. 157,896
Reserves capitalised, £65,000.. 92,896
’53..34,961 3514 16 p.c. = 22,500 101,843
’54..43,893 3514 16 ~ „ 24,000 118,222
’55..61,727 3514 15 „ „ 30,000 146’,435
But mope capital was at work,
so the ratio of profit to ord.
capital (after payment of the
pref. divs.) dropped to 19.1 p.c.,
compared with 26.9 p.c. and
20.9 p.c. for two preceding years.
The div. was kept at 15 p.c. —
the 1 p.c. bonus sent out in the
previous term was not repeated
—leaving £28,213, or over 45
p.c. of the profit to help finance
further growth of the business.
All-round expansion is the
keynote of the balance-sheet
figures:—
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref. .. £68,300 £68,300 £68,300
Ord. .. 150,000 150,000 200,000
Reserves .. 101,843 118,222 146,435
Mortgage .. 37,258 35,960 34.603
Overdraft .. 14,415 87,144 1181665
Creditors .. 94,291 75,335 87,541
Tax provision 80,000 66,452 80,277
Final div... 16,757 18,257 21,757
£562,864 £619,670 £757,578
Freeholds and
leaseholds 175,236 181,584 205,415
Plant, etc. 91,238 127,214 153,577
Shares in
franchi s e d
cos. .. 15,849 16,849 15,850
Stock .. 210,043 187,456 227,095
Debtors .. 69,859 104,804 152,821
Cash, etc... 639 2,763 2,820
£562,864 £619,670 £767,578
To meet net additions totalling
£137,850 to freeholds, etc. (up
£23,831), plant (up £26,363),
stocks (up £39,639) and book-
debts (up £48,017) the co. in-
creased the outside debt by
£57,552, of which £31,521 was
added to mortgages, £13,825 to
the overdraft and £12,206 to
the amount coming to sundry
creditors. The improvement in
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£39,893) was £28,018.
The market prices the f.-p.
£1 ords. at 48s. After exercising
the rights and allowing for
brokerage, the net price would
be 435. 2d., and the yield 7 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div., which looks
like remaining a comfortable
matter so long as the present
state of full employment and
high wage-rates continues —some
of the co.’s lines might prove to
be luxuries easily dispensed with
in hard times. The rights, which
have a theoretical value of 235.,
may prove the cheaper im-
mediate means of gaining an
interest in the business. Includ-
ing the new issue, net tangible
cover is 31s. 9d.
Great Western Consolidated
TT doesn’t look as though the
co.’s Copperhead mine, near
Bullfinch (W.A.), is going to
yield shareholders anything like
the profit expected when the
venture was launched about five
years ago. Still, there is always
a chance in mining. Recent
drilling suggests that develop-
ments at depth in the Copper-
head might yield richer ore than
has so far been met with in the
upper levels. And the co. has
two other mines, Frasers and
Corinthian, in the Bullfinch-
Southern Cross area, where
drilling has indicated possibilities
much more promising than any-
thing that has yet shown up in
the Copperhead.
At Frasers, where two bedded
ore horizons have been disclosed,
drill core-values range from
s.2dwt. to 16.3dwt., and widths
from 56 inches to 151 inches.
The mine is being dewatered and
plant installed. Development and
production, results of Which will
be awaited with interest, are
expected to begin at an early
date.
At the Corinthian the drill has
disclosed a wide zone of mineral-
isation south of the old mine.
Five holes, put down over a
length of 1200 ft. on the western
quartz reef, showed values
ranging from 4.Bdwt. to 23dwt.
over widths varying from 48
inches to 114 inches. Speaking
generally, secondary enrichment
is believed to play an important
role in the Corinthian ore-bodies,
whose extent and value in the
sulphides, which come in at
about 100 ft., have yet to be
established.
Production and treatment
figures at the Copperhead over
the last two years compare as
follows:
Ore (— —Recoveries
March Treated, Fine Gold, Yield,
31, Tons. Ozs. Dwts.
1951 .. 420,129 51,143 2.43
1955 .. 421,986 66,792 2.69
Of last term’s mill-feed 197,186
tons, averaging 2.44dwt., came
from the quarry and 200,290
tons, averaging 3.03dwt., from
underground ; the balance of the
tonnage consisted mainly of old
tailings. The grades of quarry
and underground ores were
about o.4dwt. and ldwt. respec-
tively below run-of-mine values.
Mill performance (recovery 91.5
p.c.) was excellent.
Revenue was £885,940, oper-
ating costs, including £70,102 for
development, £800,763, and
working profit £85,177 ; the
corresponding figures per ton
of ofe treated being ap p ro xi-
ma tely 425., 38s. and 4s.
respectively. Of the working
profit, interest on the outside
debt took £44,562, and sundry
exes. £7984, leaving a net profit
c f £32,631, or 1.8 p.c. on the
£1,768,000 of capital.
sj nce cost c f production ex-
ceeded £l3 10s per fi ne ounce
go j d> t h e co . expects to qualify
t° r the maximum subsidy of £2
p er b ne ounce produced since
T n t v i 1054 un der the Federal
JUiy 1, IyJH-, uiiuei me rcuciai
Government’s Gold Mining
Aooktnnpp Art On thp of
Assistance Act. un tne oasis Or
j t term , s figures t hi s should
boost the vear’s net earnines bv
a ?“ at S eammBs 7
ab ° pt £42 - 544 - ... *
When the books closed ore
reserves at the Copperhead were
put at 925,000 tons, averaging
3.3dwt., of which 572,5UU, avei-
aging 2.Bdwt., were in the open-
cut and 352,500 tons, averag-
mg 4.ldwt. underground, with
prospects oi more slightly-better-
grade stuff being opened up at
depth.
When the books closed ad-
vances from Western Mining
Corp. totalled £670,000, there
wasi £556,365 coming to the bank,
mainly on account of housing,
and sundry creditors, etc., fig-
ured for £119,485. Gold in
course of realisation and book-
debts totalled £37,453.
The co.’s f.-p. 10s. shares,
which had dropped to 3s. lid.
in 1954, recently fetched ss. lOd.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
■ Most of the color and brilliance at the
first night of “The Taming of the Shrew”
at Her Majesty’s was concentrated on-
stage—a bleak, wintry night was respon-
sible for a lack of glamor in the audience,
the subdued frocking of which was in
contrast to the fragile Botticelli frocks
of white organza—with their pattern of
gay, hand-painted flowers and the
flower head-dresses worn by Kate’s
bridesmaids. Exceptions included the
orchid-pink satin theatre-coat worn by
Mrs. Richard Linton. Mrs. Ronald Nott
highlighted her short black velvet frock
with a silk stole striped in shades of
blue and pink. Her sister, Betty Smithy
wore a platinum-grey silk-shantung
ballerina frock. Joan Hammond, here
on a short holiday before leaving for
concert-engagements abroad, wore a
full-length dyed-ermine coat with a
black frock. Lolita Marriott also wore
dyed-ermine.
Mrs. Frank Tait teamed a black pleated
taffeta skirt and a black evening-sweater
embroidered with rhinestones and
sequins; her theatre-coat was of black
satin. Mrs. Terry Vaughan’s bright-red
theatre-coat had a full back, which fell
from a deep yoke trimmed with loops
of black braid. Mrs. Royden Honeyman’s
coat of black-and-gold taffeta had green-
and-gold embroideries on the cuffs.
Notable little evening-hats were Mrs.
L. R. Buxton’s curvette of Ming-blue
satin and Mrs. Leo Curtis’s black velvet
cloche, which had a cascade of tiny pink
rambler-roses at one side. The Lady
Mayoress (Mrs. Frank Selleck) added a
blue-fox stole to her short black velvet
theatre-frock. Mrs. Richard Noone wore
a frock of japonica-pink faille with
matching satin shoes.
☆ ☆ ☆
The 600 guests who attended the Aus-
tralian-American Association luncheon
at the Royale Ballroom seemed to have
but one topic of conversation as they
waited for Katharine Hepburn: would
she wear the famous slacks? Katie
surprised them by wearing a frock of
donkey-brown wool with the bodice
featuring a mandarin-collar which was
caught with a gold-eagle brooch. The
skirt was slim and rather long by present
fashion-standards. Her loose nigger-
brown velvet coat was lined with pale-
beige satin. Twined in her up-swept
hair-do was a satin ribbon matching the
coat-lining, and this was tied into two
peaks at the top of her head.
Robert Helpmann was co-guest-of-
honor, and with Miss Hepburn was
received by the president of the associa-
tion, Sir John Latham, and Lady Latham.
At the official table were the Premier and
Mrs, Bolte, the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. Frank Selleck),
Mrs. R. G. Casey (she is president of the
women’s group of the association) and
U.S. Consul Gerald Warner. Other
guests were Mr. and Mrs. Wesley Ince,
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Tait, U.S. Consuls
Givon Parsons and J. Wiedenmayer (who
were accompanied by their wives), Mrs.
R. E. F. Smith, Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss,
Mrs. J. Bowen Allen and Mrs. T. Wallace
Mitchell and her daughter-in-law, Mrs.
Robert Wallace Mitchell.
☆ ☆ ☆
Flowers will bloom this spring on
practically every outfit worn from
morning to night. Even frocks printed
in flower-motifs will carry more flowers,
and large and small hats will be heaped
with lovely blossoms. This was obvious
at the Ritz luncheon at which P. and M.
Harbig showed their newest artificial-
blooms. On a classic black silk Stell-
Ricks suit an avocado and a lime-green
flower were pinned in the lapel. Only
to be worn by the very young and slim
was a short white cotton negligee (it
barely covered the knees), and the wide
collar was fashioned of frills on which
were sewn pink and yellow tulips. A
white tufted cotton dress featured purple
velvet shoulder-straps, extending to
hipline bows looped round bunches of
lilac.
On the window-box bodice and front
panel of a pink cotton Hartnell frock
were tiny pink, yellow and white English
wildflowers. Printed with bunches of
violets, more clusters of violets were
added to the full,skirt and bodice of a
white organza ballerina frock. Hats by
Georgina were worn in the parade. A
chignon of strawberries set off a white
nylon frock dotted in red; a white
chiffon platter-hat was edged with
marguerite-petals and wattle-blossom;
and a tiny red organza dinner-hat had a
wimple of colorful flowers and was
finished with an overall tulle veil.
☆ ☆ *
“Jokers on the Loose,” the new Tivoli
show, is notable as much for the lovely
dressing of the ballet as for the variety
of the acts. The Premier’s wife, Mrs.
Henry Bolte, was in the first-night
audience —she wore a sheath-frock of
tabac-brown satin and a mink stole.
Mrs. David Martin and Mrs. Frank
Martin were smart in black ensembles.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll, wearing a full-
length coat of silver-blue mink over a
frock of ruby-red velvet, was accom-
panied by son John and Anne Hay. Also
noted were Mrs. Gordon Cooper, Drs.
Alwyn Rowlands and W. McDermott
and their wives, Mr. and Mrs. Richard
Linton, Mrs. W. H. Horsfall, Mrs. A.
Colman, the Fred Irvines, Alice Wyatt
and Mr. and Mrs. Royden Honeyman.
At the time when Mrs. James
McGauran ended her stage career to turn
to dress-designing she was dancing in
“Rose Marie”; a few years later the
first show she was asked to dress was a
revival of the same musicomedy. As
Renee Rose she made a name for herself
in the fashion-field; now she has retired
to her lovely Toorak home, where she
intends to occupy herself in painting,
furthering her study of languages, and
with gardening. Later will come an
extended tour abroad. During the war
Mrs. McGauran raised considerable
sums of money for various war-time
organisations, and in the last three years,
by disposing of tickets for her famous
Bride Dolls, has raised £3000 for the
Victorian division of Red Cross. A regu-
lar first-nighter at the theatre, she is noted
for her tasteful dressing. Photo by John
Warlow.
Mrs. James Alston, president of the
Robin Hood committee, which works
for the Helping Hand for Mentally
Retarded Children, was hostess at a
late-afternoon party at her South Yarra
home, when plans were announced for
the second Bohemian Ball and Art
Exhibition organised by the committee.
This will be at the Royale Ballroom on
October 13, tickets 355. each. Maria
Manning (BM 1743), Anne Marron
(XM 1739), Anne Swallow (BM 1030)
and Francine Abry (XB 1727) are ticket-
secretaries. Mrs. Alston wore with a
black wool jewelled sweater an apple-
green quilted-satin skirt. Mrs. John Bell
wore a black frock. Present also were
committee-secretary Moya Horowitz,
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Byrne (he is presi-
dent of the Helping Hand organisation),
Mr. and Mrs. John Morgan, Mrs. Adrien
Nelken and hon. treasurer Martin
Ravich.
* * ☆
Special guests at the luncheon given
by Lady Burston, wife of the chairman
of Moonee Valley Racing Club, on
Saturday were Mrs. A. L. Walters, wife
of Air-Vice-Marshal Walters, and her
daughter Robin, who sails in the
Stratheden for London. Mrs. Walters
wore a black suit with a curvette of
white wheat-ears. Robin was attractive
in a charcoal-grey coat, lightly flecked
with white, and a tiny hat of white-and-
brown feathers. Mrs. W. S. Cox wore
an azure-blue suit with a rose-pink
melusine cloche. Lady Snow topped
her cherry-red coat with a tiny pigeon-
grey felt curvette. Mrs. A. J. Moir’s
duck-egg-blue velvet cloche was worn
with a black suit. Mrs. Keith Morrison
wore with her grey-and-white-flecked
tweed coat a brilliant-red cloche. Mrs.
R. V. Gove matched the red sweater
worn under her grey suit with her beret.
SYDNEY
Over 1000 doctors came to Sydney for
the Australasian Medical Congress last
week to discuss matters medical, and,
like the deliberations of the Big Four at
the Summit, the congress was accom-
panied by a considerable amount of
social activity. Indeed, to judge by the
speed with which the doctors and their
wives dashed from one function to an-
other, it is quite possible that some
remarkable discovery regarding the treat-
ment of indigestion might arise from
this congress.
The congress was opened by the
Governor-General, Sir William Slim, at
a brilliant ceremony in the Town Hall,
where Sir Charles Bickerton Blackburn
gave the presidential address. Lady Slim,
wearing emerald-green brocade, was
accompanied by Lady Collins, president
of the women’s committee. All the doctors
wore academic dress, their black-and-
scarlet robes faced with gold, azure,
violet, cream and silver, and their walk-
ing down George-street past St. Andrew’s
Cathedral to the reception given by Sir
Charles at the Trocadero recalled the
pageantry of medieval days.
Most of those who attended these two
functions had been to one or other of the
formal dinners preceding it, and several
had also attended the cocktail-party given
by the Royal Empire Society at its
rooms in Bligh-street Lady Collins,
whose dress was of cream lace
embroidered with gold thread, was pre-
sent at this party with her sister, Dr.
Monica Knox-Knight, and were wel-
comed by Dr. and Mrs. Garnet Halloran.
Also present were Dr. and Mrs. H. C.
Colville, from Melbourne (Dr. Colville
is the “recently elected Federal president
of the British Medical Association), Pro-
fessor and Mrs. J. A. R. Miles, from
Dunedin (N.Z.) and formerly of. Adel-
aide, and Dr. and Mrs. Robert Southby,
from Melbourne.
Here is Jennifer Campbell Smith, only
daughter of the R. A. C. Smiths, of Mono-
meeth, Warialda (N.S.W.), recently
engaged to David Bundock, who is the
elder son of the A. W. Bundocks, of
Woodlawn, Warialda. Both Jennifer and
David are of pioneering stock, David’s
great-grandfather having been one of the
first settlers in the Richmond River area.
Both families have (in their own words)
“been pioneering ever since," never
having left the land and its problems.
Photo by Norton-Trevaire.
A big Congress cocktail-party was
that given by Dr. and Mrs. C. G. Berge,
of Parramatta, at Prince’s on Wednesday.
To welcome the 150 guests Mrs. Berge
wore a cocktail-dress of black georgette
with panels of Chantilly-lace. Among
those who went on from the party to the
official dinner for 600 at David Jones’
were Sir Earle Page, Sir Harold and
Lady Dew, Dr. and Mrs. H. C. Colville
and Dr. and Mrs. Jim Buchanan from
Melbourne.
At the same time many members of
the congress and their wives from other
parts of Australia and New Zealand were
feasting their eyes on that spectacular
view of Sydney by night to be seen from
the Astor flats in Macquarie-street. They
were guests at a party given by Dr. and
Mrs. C. M. Guiney, and several remarked
that even New York by night was not
more brilliant. Guests included Dr. and
Mrs. Howard Bullock, Dr. and Mrs.
Clement Chapman, Dr. and Mrs. Tom
Bateman, Dr. Norma Kelso (Melbourne),
Dr. John Tully (just back from seven
years in England and study at Oxford),
Dr. and Mrs. A. H. Tebbutt, and, from
Bundaberg (Q.) on a three-weeks holiday,
Dr. and Mrs. E. Schmidt. It was Dr.
Schmidt who attended Mrs. Lucke,
mother of the Bundaberg quads, and Mrs.
Schmidt said that, although her husband
and the parents of the babies were quite
calm, she herself was so keyed-up she
lost half-a-stone in weight.
Three members of the Metropolitan
Youth Orchestra—Wendy Sargent, Rose-
mary Caldwell and Peter Scott —enter-
tained the annual convention of the Smith
Family Auxiliaries at David Jones’ dur-
ing the week. This orchestra, formed
early this year, now has 58 members and
hopes to give its first public concert before
Christmas. Speakers at the convention
were Matron B. Conacher, of the Mt.
Arcadia Hospital for Children (which
the Smith Family maintains), and Mr.
Charles Cousens. The president (anony-
mous as are all Smith Family executives)
said that last year 15,000 needy cases
had been helped and that more work
still could be expected to be done in
the future, as a building had been pur-
chased in Riley-street to which the
offices would be moved by the end of
the year.
# # V
Married at St. Mary’s Cathedral on
Saturday, August 20, were Mary Mc-
Grath, youngest daughter of the Brian
McGraths, of Dulwich Hill, and Frank
O’Rourke, of Rose Bay, the former
international footballer and well-known
sports-commentator. The bride is a great-
great-granddaughter of John Grant,
pioneer of Hartley and Canowindra, who
came to Australia about 150 years ago,
and the wedding was attended by visitors
from many parts of N.S.W. and other
States. Her sisters Julietta and Beatrice
attended her, while best man and
groomsmen were Dick Mahony and
Peter Davis.
V # #
The Overseas League had a birthday-
party during the week —45 years old
and delighted about it, though the Sydney
branch is merely a youthful 22. Guests-
of-honor at the party, held in the league’s
rooms, were High Commissioner for
Canada W. A. Irwin and Mrs. Irwin (she
wearing a pert little emerald-green hat
with her anthracite-grey shantung dress),
who were welcomed by Major C. Chap-
man and Mrs. Chapman ( her little hat of
peacock-blue worn with a black faille
coat-dress). About 130 members were
present, busiest being Miss Kathleen
Gaden, who has been a member of the
Sydney branch since its foundation.
It was fascinating to watch, at the
premiere of “Tosca” at the Empire on
Saturday night, the skill with which
Elisabetta Barbato, in the title-role,
averted the ever-present hazard of a skirt
with a train at least six-feet long—a
hazard given extra point by this singer’s
habit of restlessly moving about stage
while singing. Continually John Shaw,
as Scarpia, and Umberto Borso, as Cava-
radossi, stood on the train during close-up
duet-singing, and every woman in the
audience must have been on pins and
needles waiting for the awful sound of
material tearing in case the soprano* were
to move away before her singing partner
removed his feet from the “red carpet.”
Happily there was no contretemps, and
Miss Barbato even managed to give the
impression while singing beautifully that
the possibility of an imminent sartorial
disaster was the thing farthest from her
mind.
# * #
Visitor to Sydney at the moment is
Topsy the pony from Surfers’ Paradise,
described as both “scholar and magician’
because she not only adds and subtracts
more quickly than her audience can but
does card-tricks, too, and plays euchre
She is on her way to New Zealand and
is staying at Walton’s store, where she is
fascinating the children during the school
holidays.


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
In sizes 5| ins. x 3J ins.,
68 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan [g;
Envelop* Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
104.306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
69 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOHN RAY (also known
as WILLIAM JOHN MAKIN) late of
69 Thompson Street Darlinghurst.—
TAKE NOTICE that DORA RAY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4803 of
1954 on the ground of your desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 24th
October 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from K. BRUDE-
NELL-WOODS & CO., Solicitors, of 90
Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE -FREDERICK HILL late
of 196 Keppell Street Bathurst. —TAKE
NOTICE that PATRICIA MARY HILL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 17
of 1955 on the ground of your desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 24th October 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from K. BRUDENELL-WOODS &
CO., Solicitors, of 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar, __
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STANLEY RICHARD STEPHENS
late of 457 Punchbowl Road Belfields. —-
TAKE NOTICE that MINNIE PEARL
STEPHENS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2612 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 4th November 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from LORTON DUKE & CO., Solicitors,
of 77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar. _____
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JAMES WILLIAM WALKER late of
Nowra in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that OLIVE JEAN
WALKER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3493 of 1954 (Federal Matrimonial
Cause) on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and is asking the exercise
of the Court’s discretion in her favour
under Section 84 (1) of the Marriage Act
1926 (Victoria) If you wish to defend
you may enter, an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Second day of
November 1965 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
ALLAN UTHER & CO., of 33 Macquarie
Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
im
&
sm
ri
e
r
as
ttfff
s
m
But it's the
" CARRINGTON "
....at KATOOMBAI
Comparable with anything in the world*
* LUXURIOUS
24-HOUR ROOM SERVICE
Day or night at any hoar an
efficient staff looks after
yonr smallest needs.
thins
*« &> e y
The» e * here «
\>at^
> Oo\\ .
;e£»>
tiß»®
Vlo’d^w
•S****" 1
nailv Holiday or Weekend tariff available. Individual
rooms from 13 gns. weekly. PHONE OB WMTE NOW
FOR FULL DETAILS WITHOUT OBLIGATION.
CARRINGTON HOTEL
Phone Katoomba 1 (One)
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“The Teahouse of the
August Moon”
This, adapted by John Pat-
rick from the novel by Vern
Sneider and played by Aus-
tralians, Americans, English-
men, Japanese and Chinese
from Little Bourke-street, is the
most intelligent comedy that
Melbourne Comedy has staged
for years.
A colonel who aspires to
retire as a general is charged
with the sacred task of introduc-
ing the gospel of American
democracy to Okinawa per
medium of the occupying forces
and schools and lectures; he
ends-up by inadvertently pro-
viding the small, poverty-
stricken village of Tobiki with
a geisha teahouse and his inter-
mediary, Captain Fisby, with a
geisha.
In between much wisdom is
expressed by Sakini, -Captain
Fisby’s batman, and much
nonsense by the captain; there
are also sly hits at psychiatry,
at Western ideas of sex and their
practical application and at
humanitarianism.
The captain tries to revive the
ancient crafts of Okinawa, but
when the natives try to sell them
to the U.S. Navy it prefers the
pseudo articles of mass-produc-
tion. He gets a ready sale, how-
ever, for the traditional product
of the village, which is brandy
manufactured from sweet-
potatoes, and it is on an ocean
of brandy that the captain
reconstructs the village and
makes it self-supporting.
One of the most effective
scenes, both dramatically and
theatrically, is where the indig-
nant colonel orders the teahouse
to be demolished. In the long
course of their history the
unsophisticated Okinawans have
been subjugated by Chinese
pirates, Christian missionaries
and now by the American
democracy, and they know how
to deal with these destroyers.
When the colonel learns that
Congress is delighted with the
results of his experiment and
are sending out a Senator to
inspect Tobiki and photo-
graphers to photograph it in all
its newfound glory he is devas-
tated —he will never become a
general. Sakini claps his hands
and the teahouse returns as if
by magic, having been taken
down in sections and carefully
hidden.
There is a charming urbanity
about the sly Okinawans and an
equally charming stupidity
about the self-sufficient Euro-
peans. Hugh Thomas is admir-
ably subtle as Sakini and Grant
Taylor is excellently silly as
Colonel Pudy. John Bonney is
good as the bewildered captain
and Hilary Bamberger makes an
alluring geisha. Shang Kam
Yuk, Kai Ming, Sing Yan Ting,
Jimmy Ah You, Ray Sheba,
George Ah You, Han Wai
Chai, Sweelan Lee are the most
convincing lot of supers ever
seen in Melbourne, and Mary
Fukuda, who, with Harry
Chang, was J.C.W.’s adviser on
the manners, customs and
language of the Okinawans, is
delightful as Miss Higa Jiga.
Danny O’Neil is the director of
the astute production.
* * *
“Madame Butterfly”
Sailors have abandoned
hastily-married wives in foreign
ports before, but how Pinkerton
the Cad (in the form of Augusto
Pedroni) could have failed to
return ‘ swiftly on the wings of
song to so charming and piquant
a Cho Cho San as Rina Mala-
trasi is quite beyond understand-
ing—and she able to beguile
him, too, with such a glorious
voice.
Bruno Nofri’s production of
Puccini’s opera at Sydney
Empire showed style and taste
in practically every department.
In Jhe setting for the first act
outside Butterfly’s villa the Nip-
ponese scene was nicely cap-
tured, the host of relatives were
disposed in orderly fashion and
animation was well maintained.
Signorina Malatrasi bore
almost the whole burden of the
final act with ease and aplomb,
and her impassioned farewell to
little Trouble was touchingly
effective.
Pedroni’s tenor, fairly weighty
and of nice quality, was of
uncertain pitch on only a few
notes high in the head-register,
and he was a suave enough lover
before he developed nostalgic
thoughts about rye-whisky and
chewing-gum.
Ferdinand Li Donni was duly
sympathetic and helpless as
Consul Sharpless ; Adelio Zago-
nara was a flutteringly obse-
quious marriage-broker; and
Augusto Romani a Bonze who
threatened angrily in a powerful
basso. Maria Huder was in
strictly traditional character as
the gentle maid Suzuki.
Maestro Wolf-Ferrari eased
his restraining hand only once
—towards the end of the first
act when tenor and soprano
were forced to lung-power limits
to get above a flat-out orchestra.
* ❖ *
Trapp Family Singers
This group of three sopranos,
three contraltos, two tenors, a
baritone, and two basses (includ-
ing the conductor, Father Frani
Wasner) made their Australian
debut at Sydney Con. and im-
mediately gave the impression
that they sing because they like
it.
This is especially true of their
folksong delineations and in
this they range the globe for
their materials. Most folksongs
have a strong affinity with
dancing, and are, therefore,
generally both rhythmical and
cheerful. The Trapp singers’
offerings were all marked by
well-disciplined attack and a
fine blending of good tone, with
a beautiful balance held between
the voices.
In the sacred music their art
took on greater delicacy. There
were the finest shadings of
nuance and splendid phrasing in
Aichinger’s “Regina Caeli, Lae-
tare,” a 17th-century motet, and
in Eberlin’s “Tenebrae factae
sunt,” which died away to a
beautifully-controlled whisper.
Even a Gregorian Hymn was
less arid than. may have been
expected from such an uncom-
promisingly austere form. An-
other fine liturgical piece was
William Byrd’s “Senex puerum
portabat.”
A bracket of 15th- and 16th-
century madrigals included
John Wilbye’s “Sweet Honey-
Sucking Bees,” in which the
voice-groups are varied most
effectively, and H. Isaac's “Inns-
bruck, I Must Leave You,”
haunting and nostalgic.
The instrumental music was
supplied by recorders, the viola
de gamba (six-stringed ancestor
of the ’cello) and the virginal
(grandfather of the harpsichord)
and was interesting mainly in
the novelty and combination.
* * *
Gordon Watson
In Gordon Watson’s midday
piano- recital at Sydney Art
Gallery, musical vitamins were
balanced like an Oslo lunch. He
showed an expert sense of style
in the sharp switch from the
Haydn F Minor “Andante and
Variations” to Bartok’s Bul-
garian dances. And an expert
set of fingers more than met the
considerable demands of Liszt’s
B Minor Ballade, which fol-
lowed. In its formal structure
this Ballade may have been a
trial run by Liszt for his epic
sonata in the same key. If its
-histrionics today remind one of
M--G--M. one must remember
that Liszt thought of them first.
Tall Tales and Bush Songs
Next Saturday at Federation
Hall, 166 Phillip-street, Sydney,
the Australian Folklore Society
will hold its “First Australian
Folk Lore Festival.” The pro-
gramme will include bush songs
and recitations, tall stories and
dances. In fact: “An old-time
social evening with traditional
entertainment in authentic
manner by Australian singers
and players.” John Meredith,
who collected the “Old Bush
Songs” lately published in The
Bulletin, will run the show.
Artbursts
Jeffrey Smart
A few quite astonishingly
attractive pictures stand out in
Jeffrey Smart’s exhibition at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries, in-
terpretations of Sydney beach-
life which are not only extremely
pleasant in themselves but also
a remarkable development in an
artist whose work has previously
seemed too stylised and deriv-
ative: terracotta youths filtered
from Greek art through Michel-
angelo and Picasso, lunar land-
scapes from Paul Nash.
Both types of derivative paint-
ings remain, still to the artist’s
disadvantage. Granted that
some degree of stylisation is use-
ful for his purposes—since he is
painting, as it were, sculptural
impressions of bathers and
youths with surfboards, and
overmuch attention either to
character or the niceties of the
figure would distract the eye —
his mode of stylisation, with its
excessively wooden figures and
its continual reminiscences of
other artists, is merely another
kind of distraction. He needs,
simply, to invent a style of his
own.
Perhaps it will come from
closer observation, a nearer
approximation to reality, for
what is most interesting about
the paintings where the figures
do not obtrude is the very fine
balance he has achieved between
a genuine response to Nature and
the abstract problems of design
and color.
His sea and moonlight in
“Lovers by the Sea” are not
literal sea and moonlight any
more than the lovers are real
people; but, while one still
wishes that the lover hadn’t a
terracotta arm, they are a singu-
larly harmonious and dramatic
interpretation of realistic sea and
moonlight.
Similarly in “Green Pav-
ilions,” if the ocean never really
rolled into the shore in such a
smooth bottle-green and so neat
a triangle, one never doubts
that the artist has seen something
very like this effect on the beach
at night and, moreover, that this
was the ideal interpretation to
make of it to fit, both in color
and design, with the over-all
scheme of greens and yellows
and the architectural movement
of curving sea-wall and octagonal
pavilions.
“Esplanade,” with its curves,
oblongs and soft purples, is a
nice bit of essentially abstract
architecture; and “Feeding the
Seagulls,” with its glimmer of
freshness in the sea and its oddly
effective barber’s-pole tower, has
just about the right touch of
near-life in the woman in the
red dress to make at least one
figure-study achieve the balance
between realism and stylisation
characteristic of the best of the
landscapes.
Talkies
“The Country Girl” (Sydney
Prince Edward): An arresting
backstage drama lit by three
glowing performances: Bing
Crosby, taking his natural style
into a most convincing portrayal
of a drunken actor plagued by
psychological problems and
using a past tragedy to try to
justify his weakness; Grace
Kelly, who won a well-deserved
Academy award for her role of
the loyal wife embittered by
years of being her husband’s
prop; and William Holden as
the producer who relentlessly
drives the actor back into
stardom.


Jo-JO'S
Persian
Journey
by
Ethel
ANDEISON
I had motored hastily down
from Ispahan, where most
reluctantly I had left that
lovely city in all the glory
of an early spring;, its Grand
Mosque and the Palace of Forty
Pillars, as I looked wistfully
back, had pierced the thin sun-
light with an exquisite precision.
I had made the long journey
by car, going by devious ways
that brought me to the “new”
motor road between Shiraz and
Bushire. Various deflections
from the beaten track led me,
finally and unobtrusively, to a
mean collection of huts, named
Ahwaz, which stood on the banks
of the Karun River, just above
its junction with the Tigris and
Euphrates, a wide estuary.
I (nicknamed “Jo-Jo”) had
orders from our Embassy, where
I was an attache, to wait at
Ahwaz for the valuable secret
cargo which I was to carry back
to Ispahan.
In my own opinion a convoy
of lorries could have gone by
road attracting no notice, but,
no, my superiors (whose right to
that title I doubted —were they
not old?) they thought other-
wise! Once I got to Shiraz —
yes—from there on daylight
could shine on my every action'*
but the trip from Ahwaz to
Shiraz was to be kept as quiet as
possible; I was to journey by
little-known routes; I was to
carry the precious bundles (of
an unknown commodity) on the
backs of mules, the usual method
of transport in those regions.
It was evident that the arrival
by warship through the Persian
Gulf was the point our people
did not wish emphasised, and
since Britain was on the eve of
leaving India, and since our
simplest doings attracted un-
enviable attention in some
quarters, being always made to
appear like plots, they were per-
haps discreet.
I was told that the Navy
would send the laden mules up
from Muhammereh, the port
where the consignment would be
disembarked, and I had instruc-
tions to wait at Ahwaz, and there
make preparations for the march
inland.
I collected a goatskin-tent,
cooking-pots and blankets. I
bought a . very high-spirited
stallion, which was to carry me
on this queer expedition, and I
accustomed myself, once again,
to spend many hours in the
saddle, for though I had recently
returned from an unpleasant and
arduous campaign, six months in
an office had rather softened my
muscles.
I was in a district steeped in
Biblical history.
The craft I watched struggling
up and tumbling down the red
tempestuous waters of the Karun
were all pitched within and
without, as the Ark was said to
have been. Quite near was a
hovel called “The-Mother-of-
Pitch.” Further away was
Kirkuk, where flares of gas,
flames such as blazed up in the
burning fiery furnace into which
Shadrach, Meshach and Abed-
nego had been cast, might still
be seen burning with blue
tongues in red gullets. Yet
further inland was a noxious
valley where, on flying over it,
birds dropped dead, and in
which neither man nor beast
could live.
Those two noted adventurers,
Sinbad the Sailor and Old
Father Abraham, had set off on
their travels from near by, but
the British consul, in whose
breezy house I was staying, told
me a tale I found more interest-
ing than their hackneyed
biographies.
HE insisted that a ruin called
“Qal’ah-i-Khatum” “The
Lady’s Fort” —not far away, had
been built by Esther’s discredited
rival, Queen Vashti, and that
below it she used to sit on the
highway, collecting Customs-
dues from passing caravans. The
legend says that on King Xerxes’
birthday (that is, on the reputed
Ahasuerus’) she had asked (not
for the first time) for a large sum
of money. Etiquette dictated that
the king could not refuse to
grant any boon asked on that
day, but he imposed conditions ;
she should collect the money
herself.
“Some day,” I suggested to the
dear old consul, “we shall have
a film showing the ‘Life of
Vashti, the first career-girl.’ ”
“Oh, no! Lot’s wife was the
first —she was a commercial
traveller, she travelled in salt.”
“When Mrs. Lot became
interested in salt she stopped
travelling,” I pointed out. “So
I think Queen Vashti might claim
that honor —if it is an honor.”
I had been told to engage an
escort, and the consul agreed
that it would be rash to travel
without one.
It was the custom, just there,
for the local tribes to take toll
of the herdsmen and their herds
and the villagers who lived in
reed huts and tilled the soil.
This transaction was as reason-
ably arranged as the more ortho-
dox manner of taxation imposed
by an accredited Government. It
was equally the rule that, since
there was no police force, tribes-
men, here the Bakhtiari, should
protect such wayfarers as hired
them from the depredations of
their fellow-thieves.
The consul produced a Bakh-
tiari chief, Murad Khan by
name, and I interviewed him on
the veranda of the consulate,
where he appeared'to be per-
fectly at his ease. Really he was
a magnificent man!
It seemed strange to me that
the fife of poverty, unchastity
and disobedience which these
nomad races had lived for untold
centuries should have produced
so splendid a type. Physically he
made any Greek statue of Her-
cules, Mercury or Apollo look
a bit coarse and overfleshed. A
perfect Persian, nobly-planned,
to rob, to browbeat and com-
mand. Such was Murad.
His mental talents, I §oon
realised, were considerable and,
what is more, attractive. He had
the laughing charm of an Irish-
man and the sense of humor of a
Chinaman. When he laughed, as
with boisterous goodfellowship
he constantly did, he would
throw back his patrician head,
and show the s i news 0 f his
S pi end i d throat, and make plenty
of hearty noise. Murad Khan
carried a rifle slung over his
shoulder, and he had a dagger
thrust i n his belt. Showing me
w ith pride this fine Damascus
hlade, he remarked complacently,
« It boils w hh poison-water.”
j spoke some Persian, but less
Arabic, and as Murad’s par-
ticular dialect contained a good
many Bakhtrian or ancient Peh-
Jevi words, the consul assisted at
our fj rs t interview.
“You must buy a new copy
c f t h e Qur’an, the Mohammedan
Bible. You must write the terms
0 f your agreement on the fly-
leaf, and Murad will sign it. He
j s to get fifty-pounds when you
arrive safely in Shiraz?”
“Yes. And I am to pay all the
expenses of the march.”
“Whatever your merchandise
ma y happen to be it will pay you
engage Murad. You could
scarcely count on getting through
the Tembi Gorge alive without
f r j en d Murad to guard your
convoy.”
“Friend Murad!” Oh, yes!
TTE took the most solemn oath
-TJL he knew on the Holy Book
of the Prophet Mohammed’s
scriptures, “to protect, advise
and serve me,” faithfully, and
to take my mules and mer-
chandise safely to Shiraz. He
took this oath with a reverent
bearing, and he promised to
have his twenty sowars ready to
start for Shiraz the moment I
gave the word.
“Meanwhile,” said he, in his
laughing manner, “would you
care to know an ‘ancestor’ of
mine who is a-hundred-and-
eight years old?”
“Of course I should be
delighted.”
Murad produced his “ancestor”
next morning.
I found that the old man was
cutting his third set of teeth, and
Murad (much amused, for, as I
said, Persians have a strong
sense of humor) told me that
he had borrowed an ivory ring
from a much younger descendant
on which to cut them. The
centenarian showed me the four
front teeth which were already
through; they were white, un-
decayed, and perfectly business-
like. When we were inclined to
grow hilarious as, with a tender
concern, he rubbed his corals on
his gums, the old Khan became
haughty. He refused to be
laughed at.
“He went. It passed,” he
observed in a stately way.
“My great-great-great-grand-
papa means, ‘Let us speak of
this no more,’ ” Murad
explained.
He moderated his mirth and
presently led the ancestor home.
The consul told me he had
adopted the old man into his
own household. The sight of
Murad’s courtesy to the old man,
who was by no means feeble,
and walked with the pride of a
chief—as indeed he was—further
inclined me to like him.
Since I was new to a life of
which my Ispahan experiences,
being purely of a social nature,
had given me no inkling, the
consul, and Murad, too, gave
me heaps of good advice.
“When sleeping in your tent
you must lie on the ground,
beside your bed, not on it! Then
you will hear a marauder
approaching. Since a robber
would expect you to be on the
bed, his bullet will be aimed to
get you at that height—bullets
might almost be said to be a
Persian’s visiting-cards!”
I thought this sounded a bit
theatrical.
“Remember (should you be
dining with some important per-
sonage) to'sit back on both heels
as you kneel at table. It is vulgar
to sit ‘four-kneed’—that is, cross-
legged.”
“It i§ a most uncomfortable
position,” I reported, trying it.
“You will get used to it.”
“Persians have beautiful table-
manners. Even when starving,
asT have known them to be after
a desert journey, they do not
hurry, but sip and sup, and mind
their manners, and make polite ■
conversation with their host.
You must eat with your right
hand. There are ablutions to be
made before a meal.”
“And don’t give yourself away
as a townsman,” Murad inter-
posed, “by putting your lips to
a stream! Only an oaf puts his
nose in his drink! Scoop up the
water with your right hand! ”
He laughed in his hearty way,
adding, “And if you meet a
hyena say ‘Kalukh,’ and it will
run away.”
“ ‘Kalukh’ is a word that
sounds like a falling brick,” the
consul explained. “The hyena is
intelligent enough to understand
that and recognise the familiar
sound.”
The usual dress of the nomads
consists of a cotton shirt, loose
cotton trousers and a sleeveless
felt coat. The tops of their cotton
sh6es are woven by their women-
folk, the soles being made of
rolls of old cloth tightly packed
and threaded lengthwise with
rawhide. I found it convenient
to adopt this dress. I carried
under my saddle a blanket for
my horse and at my saddlebow
another for myself. I had a gun
in my baggage. I had a rifle
slung oyer my shoulder, and a
dagger in my belt. Only humble
people go unarmed.
A T dusk on the evening of our
departure I had watched my
bodyguard at their prayers. They
had first made their formal
ablutions, then, facing Mecca,
they had listened to the call-to-
prayer, afterwards repeating
Mohammed’s “creed” in their
deep-toned manly voices, which
had the far-carrying quality of
sailors’ voices, the timbre of the
wider spaces of land or sea.
Imploring protection from
evil, they had prayed for peace,
and for the Caliph of Islam,
They spoke the holy words in
Arabic with a devotion and
humility that was still the free
expression of the will of proud
and untameable men. I found it
a most impressive sight,
“Rash,” the 11th day of the
Persian month, is not an aus-
picious day on which to begin a
journey, and as we went over
our arrangements Murad ex-
plained that “the Angel presiding
over this day would not forgive
a breach of etiquette” should
we invite misfortune by setting
out on an unlucky date; so,
although the mules came up
along the river- bank, by
a sort of tow-path over-
shadowed by date-palms and
criss-crossed by many little
canals, on the night of the
10th, it was not until an hour
after sunset on the 12th that, all
our preparations made, we
started—a line of nine baggage-
mules and their muleteers, two
additional mules, for which I
had paid £l2 apiece, carrying
my baggage. In front rode my
escort of twenty armed Persians
—Bakhtiari—their leader, Murad
Khan, riding beside me. I had,
too, a servant called Tardi Beg.
Conceivably, at twenty-three,
I was not yet endowered with the
full flower of my wisdom, but
what a zest I had for living! I
think that the ardor of youth
might well be a quality more
valuable, as it is certainly more
vigorous, than the wisdom of
age!
I had never enjoyed myself so
much as I did riding behind my
laughing cavalcade through the
the date groves, and the sandy
defiles that bordered the banks
of the Karun. When we set out
the moon had risen. The stars
were as usual. There was no
breath from the distant sea or
the closer salt-inlets, a sulphurous
smell took the place of ozone,
and such air as moved, some-
times, to stir the fronds of the
date-palms, which are more
sensitive than aspen-leaves, and
move when nothing else does, m
an eerie way, came off the snows,
that lay on the high ranges to
the north-west,
There was no grass. We still
padded along over sand, and a
pattern from the date-palms was
traced in shadows by the brilliant


AVOID INVESTMENT PROBLEMS!
' t
Commonwealth Loan investors enjoy 100% security
RETURN OF CAPITAL IN FULL AT MATURITY
IS GUARANTEED BY THE COMMONWEALTH!
If you are willing to take a risk on the security of your capital and variations in the yearly
income it earns, it’s not very hard to find investments that will give a much higher immediate
return than Commonwealth Loans. If, however, security of capital and guaranteed regularity
of income are your chief considerations, then no investment can offer a better prospectus than
Commonwealth Loans.
When you invest in Commonwealth Loans, you receive the unequivocal guarantee of the
Commonwealth Government that your money will be available to you intact on the day your
holdings mature and that, in the meantime, interest will be paid to you at an unvarying rate
each six months.
••
HIGHER NET YIELD
Another important feature of Commonwealth Loans
is the higher net yield after taxation due to the
Income Tax rebate of 2/- in each £1 of interest.
See below how the rebate operates to increase your
net income. Note also that the interest required on
other securities to produce the same net income as
Commonwealth Securities increases as the rate of
tax increases.
♦lssued at £99/15/- per cent,
tissued at par.
It is impossible to put your money in a safer place
or to better use than in the Commonwealth Security
Loan now open.
NEW TERMS OF ISSUE-
One, 10 or 15 Years
Important changes have been made in
the terms of issue of this Loan, Investors
may now select from Commonwealth
Bonds or Inscribed Stock as follow:
2.
1. 10-year Securities bearing interest at 4Va%
per annum, issued at par, and maturing on
NOVEMBER 15, 1965.
15-year Securities bearing interest at 4Va%
per annum, issued at par, and maturing on
NOVEMBER 15, 1970.
One-year Securities bearing interest at 3%
per annum, issued at £99/15/- per cent, and
maturing on AUGUST 15, 1956.
3.
Minimum Subscription is £lO for the 10 or 15-year
terms and £lOO for the short-term Securities.
Applications may be lodged with any bank, savings
bank or stockbroker
For Maximum Return with 100% Security-
in vest in the
COMMONWEALTH
Security LOAN NimOtrn,
£35,000,000 FOR
PUBLIC WORKS!
Money invested in this
Loan will be allocated
to important public
works such as schools,
hospitals, housing, elec-
tricity generation, water
conservation and irriga-
tion, railways, roads,
harbours and other
projects essential to
civic progress and the
development of agricul-
ture, industry and com-
merce. Your investment
will help!
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury,
235L6.145
moon. We could see, here, a
vertical scarp of conglomerate,
there, a tangle of white, gypsum
hills, stained, sometimes, with
patches of red sandstone, often
powdered over with snow.
Distant and more distant peaks
brightened the indigo sky, which,
through the jagged pillars of the
dates, we saw making a dark
background for the Karun’s
rocky cliffs. Even by moonlight
the water looked red.
My picturesque escort were
fine strapping fellows, all of
them, and regular gods in the
saddle. As they rode ahead they
often sang their wild and
Rabelaisian songs, while the
mules as they, too, ambled along
at a steady pace, kept going the
sweet music of their “Jarari,”
the necklaces of globular bells
they all wore tied round their
necks. Tardi Beg, my servant,
rode one of my mules. He had
a beard dyed red, a sign that he
had been on the pilgrimage to
Mecca, and, like most pilgrims
(having been robbed of all he
had), he seemed to be poor. He
was at any rate grateful for the
mount. The muleteers walked in
a brisk and stately way beside
their laden beasts.
About midnight we stopped
a while under a grove of oaks, or,
it might have been, arghwan-
trees those yellow-blossomed
trees beloved by Barbar and
my servant/Tardi Beg prepared
me a meal of dates. He told me
they were the variety called
“bride’s fingers,” and that, with
a sort called “luscious buttons,”
they were the longest and best
kind of date. He pounded them
in a mortar, and then, some
cameleers having stopped near
by, he walked over and milked a
camel into the mixture, and then
again pounded away; the result
tasted very good; so did the
acorn-bread served with it.
We did not delay long, but
soon rode briskly forward.
T>EFORE dawn we had come
into more open country
where all was green, except for
occasional patches of white,
that showed the underlying
gypsum. The new crops were
sprouting: the fruit-trees were in
flower. The night had been cold,
the air at dawn was deliciously
cool.
The groups of reed-huts were,
perhaps, half a mile apart, and
the cocks crowed, as I noticed,
first to the south of us, then
round us, then north of us, not
as each bird saw the sunrise, but
following the lead of some
enthusiastic rooster near the
sea, who had first seen the sun
rise over the Persian Gulf.
Some months previously, at
the dictation of the stars, the
shepherds had put the tups to
the ewes, and now hundreds of
black kids and piebald lambs
were calling, and their dams
answering them, while sheep-
bells made a tinkling accompani-
ment to the happy din, and the
unstained sun rose on a grey
world that its magic quickly
dyed, first blue, then green, then
rose-color. But here a red morn-
ing did not mean a wet day.
We had travelled a few miles
after sunrise through the cheer-
ful and lovely world the sun had
revealed to us, when we found a
pleasant camping-ground quite
away from human habitations.
It was April, and all the
flowers of spring were out.)
Riding along, we had, soon
after sunrise, found the grass
overlaid with sheets of flower-
ing narcissus, white and yellow,
and so infinitely sweet-scented
that my horsemen, bending low
in their saddles, would, every
now and then, stoop even to their
stirrups to smell them.
Other flowers I noticed in this
wide stretch of fertile soil—
water-meadows between two
outcrops of rocks, many miles
distant; the encircling hills had
no grass on their barren cliffs
—were daisies and marigolds,
with almost no leaves; these,
Murad told me, would bud,
blossom and go to seed all within
three weeks, having been taught
(<Continued on next page)


prices
Terrific bargains . * . car accessories, tools, etc., out they go at amazingly low
prices ... this great money-saving offer will save you pounds.
Engine Tyre Pump
End Back-breaking Labour
of Pumping Tyres
Operates off engine. Can be
easily fitted in a few minutes.
With an engine tyre pump, all
you have to do is to start the
engine, and your tyres are in-
flated in a jiffy. Suitable for all
makes t of cars, including big
American cars, trucks and
tractors. Inflate your tyres the
easy way. Engine pump, com-
plete with 15ft. of hose, reduced
from £4/15/- to £3/15/-, postage
extra —Vic. 1/10, Q’land and W.A.
3/9, all other States 3/-. Send
now for this sensational bargain.
Electric Engraver
Operates from any 6 or 12 volt
car battery. Low battery con-
sumption. Engraves on all
metals. Engrave your name on
your own tools for your protec-
tion against theft. Also engraves
name or fancy designs on cigar-
ette cases, silverware, brooches,
metal tags, etc. No skill re-
quired to operate. Reduced to
45/-, postage lid. Terrific value.
Set of stocks and dies for
threading sin., fin. and lin.
pipe . . . very strongly made . . .
fast cutting . . . perfect thread
. . easy to operate. The complete
set includes stocks, iin. die, Jin. die,
lin. die and bushings. The bushings
ensure that the thread is screwed
on in perfect alignment with the pipe.
To clear for only £6/19/6, postage
extra—Vie. 3/8, Q’land and W.A. 8/4,
all other States 6/-.
a
CD
a
CD
CJ
CD
CD
CD
CD
CJ
C 3
C 2
CD
C 3
CJ
16 Drawer Cabinets
16 drawer all-steel cabinet for storing
small parts, tools, nails, screws, bolts,
etc. Each drawer is x 2iin. x
s£in. in size. Will hold parts or tools
up to sJin. in length. Identification
cards can be fitted on each drawer.
Strongly made and most useful. Attrac-
tive appearance and finished in baked
enamel. Keeps your workshop tidy.
Saves time searching for lost parts,
etc. Ideal for motorists, mechanics,
hobbyworkers, garages, shops, etc.
This is a really outstanding bargain.
Reduced from £3/15/- to £2/15/-, plus
postage and packing—Yic. 6/8, Q’land
and W.A. 13/8, all other States 10/-.
2 YEARS’ GUARANTEE
Every article adyertised is guaranteed
for two years.
Written Money Back Guarantee
supplied with every order. Unless you
are perfectly satisfied that your pur-
chase is a terrific bargain, your money
will be refunded in full. Sorry, no
C.O.D.’s. Kindly add exchange to
cheques. Send all mail orders to
PACIFIC AUTO SUPPLIES,
Dept. 12-20,
47 McLeod Road, Carrum, Vic.
Spark Plugs
prices slashed in half
World famous make.
Brand new and in
perfect condition.
Reduced from 8/6 to
4/3 each. This is a
mighty bargain. Out
they go for the sensa-
tionally low price of
4/3 each, post free.
When ordering please
state make and year of
your car, truck or
tractor.
Weld your own car
and save £££'s
with \ the electric welding tit
with a thousand uses. Welds
cracks and holes in car bodies,
mudguards, radiators, etc. Re-
pairs motor cycles, domestic
appliances, sheet metal work,
etc. It solders and brazes too.
Many useful articles can be
made, such as station wagon
bodies, radio chassis, caravan
bodies, etc. The kit is easy to
operate, and it quickly pays for
itself in time and money saved.
Works from 6 or 12 volt battery.
Send now for this complete
welding kit, comprising a high-
grade welding tool, earth cable,
welding goggles, assortment of
welding rods, fluxes, electrodes
and complete working instruc-
tions. Terrific bargain. This
complete welding kit is yours
for the amazingly low price of
£B/8/-, delivered free to your
address.
by those instincts which, I sup-
pose, plants share with beasts,
that the coming summer was not
to be endured.
I found, too, wild garlic,
anemones, and tulips.
In some stretches of that
brilliant plain it was almost im-
possible to avoid stepping on the
crocus-cups and, as in Kashmir,
tulips often flowered in the
thatch of the reed-built huts.
Well! We made our first
camp! The mules were unloaded
and their baggage stacked in my
goatskin-tent. They filled half
one side, piled high, and left
me room enough for my canvas-
bed ; the bed on which I was not
to repose myself!
Pleasantly tired, I rested on
the ground, my blankets under
me, having been fatigued, I
suppose, not by the ride, for we
had come scarcely twenty miles,
but by the excitement engendered
by a taste of life so foreign to
all my previous experiences. I
slept soundly from the first hour
to the sixth, as Murad reckoned
time.
Within a walk of our camp
there was a stream, not the
Karun, now f but possibly some
tributary, wide, but only seven
feet deep, and here we bathed,
for at noon, after so cool a night,
it was incredibly hot; the
thermometer would easily have
registered 106 in the shade.
The water, in this strange
world, all tasted of Epsom-salts,
or of sulphur, and curdled the
milk when tea was brewed in
it. My servant, Tardi Beg, when
he found that I did not care to
drink tea without milk, as the
Persians did, told me that during
our next night’s march we would
be passing a mountain in which,
he said, there was a spring, “as
sweet as sugar, as clear as crystal,
as cold as snow, and as abundant
as a river” ; in fact, “It rivals the
fountain Zam-Zam, Hagar’s well,
near Mecca, whose holy waters
I have tasted.”
As we sat in a circle in the
sparse shadow of my tent, eating
a midday meal of dates laid
between thin flakes of barley-
bread, and drinking buttermilk,
I discussed the chance of visiting
this spring with Murad Khan.
He was all against it.
“It is a climb of five-hundred
feet at least. The limestone cliffs
are almost vertical. There is
nothing to catch hold of in
climbing, for the rocks are
barren.”
As we argued, a string of
camels passed, carrying sacks in
which were reed-pens; the
country has been famous for
them from immemorial times.
“You see the ropes tied high
up round the camels’ necks?
Yes? They are tied there to keep
the camels, when chewing the
cud from casting it in their
riders’ faces!”
He laughed in his boisterous,
good-natured way.
Quite gratuitously he told me
what the Djin Jibril said to
Daniel. Peals of unbuttoned
laughter rocked the group as a
string of donkeys passed, carry-
ing immense loads of straw ; my
henchmen were a merry crew.
Persians like their stories to be
as putrid as the fish they eat.
There were no roads over the
wide, treeless plain surrounding
us, and the hills were now
etched on the limits of the sky-
line, but it was alive with life,
for the nomads were all on the
move, taking their flocks and
herds to the high ground where
the grass was sweeter and the
air cooler. Shepherds with
sheep, boys with goats, men
driving buffaloes towards the
reedbeds to the south-east,
strings of camels, mules, or grey
donkeys, women moving, as thett
poets say, “with the /grace of a
cypress-bough,” and always
dressed in black, shapeless
garments —they passed endlessly
by.
And the birds were as active
as the tribes.
Black-and-white storks called
“Lak-Lak,” from the noise they
make in alighting, or “Hajis,”
because they fly off towards
Mecca, walked into the sun after
frogs ; wherever grain had been
spilt sparrows, with red heads,
cheeped and quarrelled. In the
moonlight we had heard
nightingales.
The scent of the narcissus,
made even sweeter by the hot
air, came in gusts born of some
storm among the distant snows,
Though no one hurried, there
was everywhere a sense of
activity born of the waning
S p r j ng • we W ere now on the
edge tbe deser t 9 where no
caravans passed during the
sum mer months.
r CAN say quite honestly that,
1 foolishly, I had no curiosity
about the contents of the packets
neatly corded in tin-cases ; either
the contents or the boxes were
heavy.
j n excuse of this attitude I
may say that for months I had
been working in an office where
what I thought an unnecessary
fuss was continually being made
over"trifles. The whole Embassy
staff would be kept in a ferment
over Some missing invitation, or
over some matter of precedence
—which bigwig would go in
front of which and so on.
pressed, I suppose I should
have said that the boxes may
have contained “important”
documents, which, since we
were leaving India, were being
sent for safekeeping to our
Persian Embassy; and, as for
documents, I was sick of them!
I had seen so many! All so
“ important ” when being written
and, once docketed, never read.
So I was quite prepared to
leave the packages twinkling
along on the backs of the mules
while I went off to find that
mountain spring, and, with
luck, shoot an ibex or a small
cinnamon-bear.
During our night - march
Murad had told me many tales
of wolves, jackals and hyenas,
which I did not want to shoot,
and of bears —we had actually
seen a bear and two cubs and
ibexes, which I did. There
seemed to be so many wild
animals about—one heard the
grunt, the cracking twigs or
patter of feet as they broke
away—that one got the idea that
the Ark had not travelled as far
as Ararat to discharge its cargo ;
I have never known a place so
rich in game. Indeed, I shot
both red-legged and blaek-
legged pheasants, quail, and,
most delectable of table-birds,
sisi, as we marched. The place
was a perfect zoo.
That second evening when,
after prayers and before march-
ing, we ate a meal round a fire,
I heard recited many old
legends of Lur or Kuhgalu.
Fitz Gerald would have loved it!
I heard the tale of Sohrab and
Rustum, which Matthew Arnold
translated, sung in Firdausi s
original version. The story of
the lovers, Liela an ejo ,
too, was magmficen y o t.
During the past few days I
had been left in no doubt about
my own want of popularity. I
needed that escort. Rude words
and ruder gestures of primitive
dislike and scorn, stones, and
the Eastern talent for spitting
had taught me that. I was an
object of derision in every
village we had gone through;
and every wayfarer, even the
children, had made hostile
demonstrations.
The friendship of Murad
Khan, the devotion of Tardi
Beg, and of my own bodyguard,
after all this hatred, was infin-
itely welcome! But even they
gave me my own dish! They
would not eat with me!
Another roseleaf under my
mattress was Murad Khan’s
contempt for Tardi Beg. I liked
Tardi Beg with his red,
straggling beard and his poor
rags of clothing. He was a good
cook. That night, for instance,
we had a chicken stuffed with
raisins (both the small green sort
and the large brown ones),
pistachio-nuts and almonds. The
chicken was first boiled, then
grilled and, when a golden-
brown and extremely succulent,
a tart sauce of walnuts, sour
wine and green chillies was
poured over it. A garnish of
rice and egg-plant was arranged
round the dish. 1 enjoyed this,
particularly, as some of the less-
orthodox of my muleteers
shared it with me. Dried figs,
apricots and last season’s
cherries, beautifully crystallised,
together with three kinds of
melon, little cucumbers, a lettuce
and a cream cheese, completed
the meal.
I had noticed that Tardi Beg
had been taking particular care
of a large watermelon. This he
now produced, and from it
ladled out rum, made by filling
it with brown sugar, and
fondling it for a month. The
spirit was as potent as a liqueur.
I enjoyed that rum. The coffee,
too, was delicious. Tardi Beg
told me the name of the planta-
tion near Mocha which had
produced it.
All this time Murad Khan had
never ceased abusing poor Tardi
Beg.
“That fellow! He spreads the
carpet of hypocrisy!” he had
said, when Tardi Beg had
brought me a second brew of
coffee. “That dolt looks as if
he had been gathered from the
infernal-tree, Zaqqum, whose
fruits is the heads of fiends! ” he
said, on the rum being produced
and praised.
If Tardi Beg loitered near me,
Murad would say, loudly, to his
friends, who sat in a ring near
us, “I am like a camel who
cannot get near the well for the
crowd! ”
Hearing him, Tardi Beg would
humbly withdraw.
An hour after sunset, in
brilliant moonlight, our convoy
moved out of camp, and after
riding with it for some miles,
Murad Khan, Tardi Beg and I
branched-off to scale the moun-
tain. When he found I was
determined to do it, Murad
Khan said he would come too ;
he hated leaving me alone with
Tardi Beg. We had an arduous
climb of six-hundred feet over
rocks and up the narrow tracks
animals had made in the face
of the almost-sheer cliffs. But
the spring was there! Just as
Tardi Beg said we should find
it; a gush of cool, sweet water.
WE had left our horses and
Tardi Beg, his mule,
tethered under a grove of
arghwan-trees at the foot of the
hill, but Tardi Beg had carried
up with him a new goatskin and
two lidded-dippers, and these he
filled with water and carried
home.
The view was well worth the
climb.
Far to the south I could trace
a glint of moonlight on the
waters of the Persian Gulf. To
the west and north those
miraculous, snowcapped moun-
tains slid away into the day
before yesterday. Directly north
the plain glided into the horizon,
treeless and waterless,, shimmer-
ing even in the moonlight, with
a veil of heat. It was the desert
through which we were to travel
for the next five or six days.
“But isn’t it in a contrary
direction to Shiraz?” I asked
Murad idly.
“Yes,” Murad agreed, throw-
ing out an arm to the south-
east, “Shiraz is over there, but
in that direction there are miles
of reed-swamps ; no horseman
could get through the marshes.
There are tribes there, yes,
simple people cap-acquain-
tances of hunger—who live with
their buffalo - herds. Like
animals!” There was no mis-
taking his scorn.
I could make out far below
our mules, their neat hooves
twinkling onward, their escort
gaily trotting in front of them.
I almost imagined I could hear
the cheerful tinkle of the jarari!
Not far from the spring I saw
traces of ibexes. Following these
droppings I came on one, a
splendid specimen; but I had
not the heart to shoot it, nor the
small cinnamon-bear that peered
at us round a rock ; after all, it
was their country and both
animals had made no attempt to
escape my rifle. They were
curious, not afraid.
Murad told me that bears
never harm women but will take
them captive if they can.
Once back on the level
country, cantering along, we
soon rejoined our companions.
The rest of this night’s march
brought no incident, and at
sunrise we had again pitched my
goat skin-tent and off-saddled,
this time well beyond the desert’s
fringe.
My horse had carried me
nobly some thirty miles, and, as
one of the muleteers unsaddled
it, 1 gave it a pound of sugar
and some barleymeal-cakes
moistened with water, which it
took from my palm. Animals
are accustomed to the brackish
water here to be found, and our
beasts always slaked their thirst
at the waterholes; the Epsom-
salts and sulphur seemed to do
their stomachs no harm.
Yet once again, then, the
mules were unloaded, the
packages bestowed in my tent;
yet once again, completely un-
suspicious, perfectly happy, I
enjoyed the manly companion-
ship of my wild retinue; ate a
meal of dates, drank some
mare’s milk, and slept from the
first hour to the sixth, as Persian
reckoning goes.
Our next march took us
through the untenanted desert.
ON THE CLIFF
We sat on a cliff in paradise
and slept in a cave of peace
and all day long our meeting eyes
with love did not cease.
The creased eiderdown of hills,
the chiselled chairs of rock,
the draped-silk clouds against the sills
low-carved, and the creeping clock
of the sun, silent, reminding us
—as the birds would have made us forget
with their shrill and ceaseless chorus—
nothing was endless yet.
N.S.W.
BRIAN ROBSON.


NEW
G.8.-BeH&HoweU
S 3 Mmmsg •;
V
m
Filmosound
622’
The J ewe f led
movement
16mm. SOUND
PROJECTOR
The “622” heralds a new advance
in precision technique. The criti-
cal parts of the projector’s film
path mechanism are now faced
with sapphires at points of con-
tact. Since the sapphire is the
second hardest jewel to the dia-
mond, wear on working parts is
practically eliminated. This inno-
vation, together with the many
new technical improvements,
gives the “622” extra dependa-
bility and greater operational
efficiency.
Outstanding NEW features of the “622”
• Sapphire Inserts Sapphire tipped shuttle give 400 p.c.
longer life to critical parts.
• Improved governor end cap
—obviates adjustments.
• Camshaft and counter gear combination—reduces
wear and noise.
• New type clutch—gives more positive action, reduces
maintenance.
• New style lamp house
far more effective cooling.
• Improved speaker unit.
SIXTEEN MILLIMETRE AUSTRALIA RTY. LTD.
State Shopping Block, 49 Market Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE—BRISBANE —PERTH—PORT MORESBY
During the daytime the heat
had been almost unbearable, the
thermometer in the sun must
have touched 160 degrees. The
only shade had been provided by
the shadow of my small goat-
skin-tent, and even during our
ensuing night-march the desola-
tion seemed to close ever more
oppressively down on us as we
made our way slowly and pain-
fully over the brittle crust of the
moonlit earth.
We spent eight hours in the
saddle.
How glad we were to halt two
hours before sunrise! We had
been travelling due north and
the whole night long had passed
no one, though in the distance
we could hear wolves and jackals
howling; we saw, sometimes,
jerboas. We saw no other life.
Murad, who was in his usual
high spirits even in this waste-
land, found something to interest
me. He told me the names of
the infinitely-varied grasses,
being familiar with even the
least significant sprout of
herbage. He pointed out the
seams and channels of Sumer-
ian watercourses, where, some-
times, there would be an un-
cracked tile, or a rich crumble
of pavement or wall. Each
acre, even in this forbidding
region, had, he explained, its
owner; men would come 50
miles to plant a crop in the less-
barren soil and return five
months later to reap it. But we
passed no such crops. All was
barren here.
Next day the sun poured un-
blinkingly down, the sky was
white hot, the glare was as
vicious as lightning. The unend-
ing miles of lime or gypsum
seemed to exude their own
oppressive vapors ; there was no
water to be got, even for the
beasts, and drinks were doled-
out to them from the store the
muleteers and horsemen had
carried, each on his own animal.
The water Tardi Beg had
brought was parcelled - out
among the whole company, just
sometimes ; but the Persians did
not mind drinking tea made of
the brackish water they had
carried with them.
T\o you know, that even at
this late hour I had not the
faintest suspicion of the good
faith of my boisterous, yet
good-tempered, friend Murad!
Until, an hour after sunrise
when drowsing in my tent and
made wakeful by the heat, I saw
through half-closed eyes my
tent-flap part and Murad Khan’s
face look in; it was the face of
a man I did not know.
With my hand on my rifle I
sat up.
“Do you want anything?” I
asked, trying to hide the shock
this revelation brought me.
Murad favored me with his
disarming smile, his face again
the friendly countenance I knew
and liked. “Oh, no! I just
looked in to see whether you
were asleep.”
‘The devil you did,” I thought
as, still smiling, he withdrew his
head.
“To see if I slept!” Yes! At
this late hour I saw it all too
plainly. Directly I slept I would
be murdered, and my precious
packages, now (Stacked near me,
stolen. f
I sat on the edge of my
canvas bed. “Directly I slept,”
I thought; well, the answer to
that is—l shall not sleep! I shall
force these people to march in
front of me, and I shall keep
awake until we join the high-
way. The motor-road to Shiraz
must be somewhere north, not
far away. I might manage to
join that or meet a caravan.
Should I allow myself an
hour’s sleep? I thought not! I
got into the cotton shirt and
loose trousers, and dipped a rag
in water, winding it round my
head under my headgear.
To my surprise the muleteers
obeyed my order to up-saddle
with alacrity. On Tardi Beg’s
ugly, faithful face in particular,
I noticed a look of overt
satisfaction.
Murad Khan, whom, on going
out, I had found standing rifle-
in-hand outside my tent, dis-
played not the least discomfort,
even when I told him to ride in
front of me instead of beside
m e as he had hitherto done,
Pleasantly and casually looking
back, he continually pointed out
suc h small objects as there were
to be seen.
Nothing mitigated the hard-
s hjp s of that hot march. At
sunse t we waited an hour to
"This is a hold-up !”
bait our animals and eat and
drink. Throughout that night I
managed to keep awake, riding
last. We stopped at dawn for
another hour’s spell, after which
I again urged the tiring mules
and strangely-willing muleteers
forward.
Could I keep awake? Often
in London I had day
and danced all night. That had
not tired me. T had often gone
thirty-six hours without sleep.
Then, I had felt no undue strain ;
but now, the heat, the glare, the
stupefying trot-trot-trot of the
hooves, the jangle of the bells
made one sleepy.
Still we toiled on. No word
had been said. It was strange
that no word needed saying.
The situation had developed
according to plan, and I had
been the only person who had
not realised what was happening.
While we were among the haunts
of men, even among unfriendly
men, I had been safe. I was
now completely at the mercy of
Murad Khan, and he was even
now content to wait patiently
till I slept through exhaustion.
The odds were so strongly
against me ; I did not care to
begin the final struggle. I
hoped!
Towards the middle of the
second night’s march through
the desert the muleteers said
that they must rest. I realised
the necessity. Tardi Beg, though
tired-out himself, put up my
tent and lay down outside it.
Darfe I sleep? I did I could
not keep awake. I saw, first,
that everyone else slept, each
man by his beast. Looking
across the grey vapors that had
succeeded the hard moonlight
and heralded our enemy, the
sun, I saw that Murad Khan
himself appeared to be asleep.
So I dropped off.
T SLEPT an hour. I was
awakened by Tardi Beg.
“Murad Khan is waking,” he
whispered. With a gesture he
begged my dagger, for he was
not armed, and taking it, hidden,
he crept swiftly out.
Still dazed, I took up my rifle
and followed him.
The muleteers loaded the
mules. Tardi Beg brought me
my horse, which he had kept
hobbled near him. In a night-
mare, it seemed, we again set
out to march through the ever-
increasing heat.
Could I keep awake for two
days more? In my heart of
hearts I knew it to be im-
possible ; but I tried ; I realised
that not only the precious
packets, whatever they con-
tained, but even the lives of my
muleteers themselves might be
at stake. Murad Khan might
care to have no witnesses ; that
was evidently whqt the men
believed.
Towards noon, in heat that
had roasted eggs in the sand, I
nodded; yes, in spite of every-
thing, I found myself nodding
in the saddle. I woke, dazed,
to see Murad Khan drop back
and draw level with me. His
face was again the face of a
stranger.
The fight began then and
there, in that overwhelming heat,
in that grilling desolation.
Murad Khan fired before I
could get my rifle up. His first
shot got my knee, and I fell
from my mount on to the
burning rock. Fainting, I saw
him spring from his horse,
which one of his men caught. I
fired, I missed. He leaped
towards me; leaning over me
as I lay helpless on the ground,
he plunged his dagger into my
right side.
I struggled free. He struck
again. My last survey of the
world I believed myself to be
leaving showed me Tardi Beg
wrestling in the grip of one of
Murad’s men. The mules had
stopped. Their drivers, un-
armed, had gathered into a
group. Still against the sky I
saw Murad’s implacable face!
I lost consciousness. Helpless
in the burning sun I endured
hours of agony, being either
delirious or unconscious; yet
sometimes a lucid interval would
come to make plain my
sufferings.
I realised in one such interval
that I had been stripped, that I
was alone in burning heat, in
raging thirst, in awful pain from
four or five wounds. The horse-
men, the mules, the muleteers —
all had vanished.
Gone was my horse. Gone
my tent, my rifle. Only one
thing remained. That was the
body of Tardi Beg, prostrate on
the white-hot rock some paces
from me. He, at any rate, had
been faithful. Even in death he
seemed to try to tell me
something.
My wounds had ceased to
bleed. The blood had coagu-
lated. I dragged myself on my
elbows to Tardi Beg’s side. Yes.
He was quite dead. But under
him was one of those lidded-
dippers of fresh water ; and he,
unlike me, had not been stripped
of his clothes. I took his turban,
his shirt; I drank. I blessed his
name. Then I struggled as far
from him as I could get; and
again became unconscious.
I suffered for many hours,
delirious or awake; and, after
night had brought some small
alleviation of my sufferings, it
seemed to me that one face
again dominated my dreams. As
my fever during the next night
abated, I became aware that it
really was Murad Khan’s face
that I continually saw bending
over me; the face I knew! It
really was Murad Khan’s hands
that, as tender as a woman’s,
cared for my wounds, bathed
them, held cold, sweet water to
my parched and blistered lips.
Even in my bewildered state I
could perceive that Murad
Khan looked much amused.
A DAY or two later, when his
careful nursing and the
drugs he gave had brought me
some measure of ease, he told
me (he had obviously been
longing to tell me) the great, the
stupendous joke.
I hear again the peals of his
boisterous, happy laughter.
“Oh,” he said, doubled-up
with mirth, “never have I been
so had! We heard through a
friend that some tipsy sailors
had told her in Muhammereh
that the bags were full of gold!
It was money all right! But
not gold! It was all good
money, too —but it was paper-
money, and no use to ms!”
Murad’s laughter had brought
his men round my tent. They
all joined in his outrageous
mirth.
“It was money! Money!
Money!” shouted Murad Khan.
“Paper-money! In all my life
I’ve never known such a joke!
So we have brought it back to
you! We will take you safely
to Shiraz! You will pay us
our £50 —and give us, besides, a
little present. And you will not
give us away! ”
The wheedling rogue!
They all crowded round my
bed —I really was lying on it
at last —and asked their ques-
tions with a childlike faith in
my goodwill.
Their confidence in me was,
of course, not misplaced.


For Sale
PIANO-ACCORDION, in good
condition. Price £l2O. Write to
Armnoo Cibattoni, 108 a Pad-
dington St., Paddington, N.S.W.
i
IJ1I»
II
nr
ri
X
Nuffield,- Universal
Tractor, equipped with
hydraulically operated
Horndraulic front-end
loader and hay sweep,
shown stacking hay.
Such jobs become easy
work when you use
the Nuffield Tractor
and its many and
varied "approved-
after-test” matched
implements.
DO YOU KNOW THESE MONEY-SAVING FACTS?
The Nuffield Universal Tractor (kerosene-
powered), equipped with 11 x 36 rear and
6.00 x 19 front tyres, costs only
£978/18/- (Cap. city).
At this competitive price, your Nuffield tractor
includes the following standard equipment:
Hydraulic lift, 3-point linkage, p.t.0., belt
pulley, drawbar, drawbar extension, seat
cushion, canvas tractor cover, electric starter
and horn, headlight, agricultural rear light, tail
and side lights, heat gauge, hour meter, foot
plates, chaff screens and radiator Gutters.
Other tyre sizes available: 13.50 x 24R, 6.00 x
16F; 13 x 26R, 6.00 x 16F; 14 x 30R, 7.50 x
18F; 11 x 36 Dual Rear, 6.00 x 19F. (Tractor,
when fitted with these alternative sizes, varies
accordingly in price.)
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor & Implement
Division, Box 13, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor Range
and “Approved-After-Test” Matched Implements.
NAME...
ADDRESS,
Place X in this square if for school project.
cs
MWWHWiiBM
L_ -
*OTO* -
%
BMC
NT34.32
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
)
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
tm
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
LTD., fl OMIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of ‘Poems, 1943-47, by
C. Day Lewis. —6138.
Words of verse “The Australian
8e11e.”—6139.
To buy Ewart’s Flora of Victoria,
Moore and Bechte’s Handbook to
the Flora of N.S.W-, Sulman’s
Popular Guide to the Wildflowers of
N.S.W. (2 vols.), Black’s Flora of
South Australia, Dixon’s Plants of
N.S.W., Bailey’s Queensland Flora
and Maiden’s Illustrations of N.S.W.
Flora. —6140.
To buy books or maps on geology
of N.5.W.—6141.
To buy copy of Gallipoli, by John
Masefield. —6142.
To buy copy of Australian Nursery
Rimes, reprinted from The Bulletin,
and published in 1917 by William
Brooks, Sydney.—6l43.
To buy copy of The Black Prophet,
by Guy Fitch Phelps, probably
published in the U.S.A. —6144.
Information Sought
What happened to William Lane,
founder of the New Australia colony,
after he left Paraguay?
He went to New Zealand, where he
joined the staff of the “New Zealand
Herald” as a leader-writer. In a few
months he resigned this position in
order to re-establish the Sydney
“Worker,” but his Imperialist views,
especially on the issue of the South
African War, proved unacceptable to
his associates. He therefore, in 1900,
returned to the staff of the “Herald,”
and became editor of the paper in
October, 1913, retaining that position
till his death. During his connection
with the “Herald” he wrote, under
the pen-name “Tohunga,” weekly
articles, many, of which have been
collected and published in book-
form. He also interested himself in
defence-policies, and was chiefly
responsible for the organisation of
the National Defence League in
1906. On the outbreak of World
War I he associated himself with the
Auckland Soldiers’ Club. He died
on August 26, 1917, aged 56.
A method of tanning rabbit - and
’roo-skins, leaving the fur on ?
Clean the pelts of all ragged ends,
remove bits of flesh and fat and
make all as clean as possible. Place
in a container, and leaVe covered
with a thin mixture of bran and
water for 24 hours. Then wash well
and scrape if required. Make a solu-
tion of lib. alum and ilb. salt to
lgal. hot water (larger quantities
pro rata). Place the skins in this
while it is still warm, and soak for
another 24 hours. Dry by rubbing
and pressing, and when partially dry
immerse in a bath of warm water
and oatmeal made like thin gruel.
Leave for a further 24 hours;
partially dry in the shade, and rub
gently till quite dry. Brush and
comb the fur, make-up, brush and
comb again. Should be white, soft
and easily worked.
* * * *
How much money can a man and
wife receiving the old-age pension
have in the bank ?
Pension is not payable if a person
has property of a net value exceeding
£1750 if single or of a total net value
exceeding £3500 for husband and
wife. “Property” includes: houses,
land; money in hand, in a bank,
invested or lent; bonds, stocks,
shares, interest in estates; livestock
and vehicles other than for personal
use. It does not include one’s home,
furniture and personal effects,
surrender-value (up to £750) of life-
insurance policies or Commonwealth
war-gratuity.
* * * * ,
Is there any difference between the
brain of the Australian aboriginal
and that of the white-man?
The brain of the aboriginal is
smaller than that of the white-man:
in cubic centimetres, the usual
measurement of cranial capacity, the
brain of the aboriginal male averages
about 1290 (white-man, 1450), the
female about 1130 (white woman,
1300). The size of the brain is not
an exact measure of mental power
(as William Howells, American pro-
fessor of anthropology, in his
Mankind So Far, points out, there
are whites of normal intelligence
with a cranial capacity of less than
1000 cub. cms.); still, the people of
the higher civilisations, on the aver-
age, do have a higher brain-capacity.
Australian Herbert Basedow, in The
Australian Aboriginal, says that the
aboriginal brain, though smaller, is
not of inferior development as com-
pared with that of the white-man.
To any but the specialist there is
nothing to indicate a lowly intellectual
capacity. The number of convolu-
tions is about the same as one finds
in Europeans of average intelligence;
but the structure is, perhaps, a little
less complicated and less tortuous
than we are accustomed to see in our
own sort.” Mentally the aboriginal
in his native surroundings is obser-
vant, reliant and quick. Under
civilisation he often appears to lack
stability, though he is adapting him-
self more and more; and certain
individuals have played, or are
playing, an important role in society.
* * * *
Some details concerning a Western
Australian tree called yate (Eucalyptus
cornuta) and its timber?
It is a tree attaining a height of
50ft. to 60ft., bole up to 25ft. to
35ft. and a girth of up to 9ft. This
species yields a light-colored timber
of exceptional strength. It is prob-
ably the strongest timber in the world;
in one test for tensile strength the
breaking-load was 17-j- tons per
square inch, tons less than that
usually specified for wrought-iron of
ordinary quality. Used for wheel-
wright-work generally, it is preferred
where the strongest shafts for frames
of carts are required, and has been
turned for axe-handles. It occurs
in the Busselton, Donnelly River
coast, Lake Muir and Mount Barker
districts. That it is not used more
generally is due to the limited
quantities available.
* * * *
Date of the Bayeux tapestry, who
made it, what does it represent, and
why has it historical importance ?
It represents the Norman conquest
of England, and is believed to be
late - 11th-century work, , though
some experts argue in favor of a
date from 50 to 200 years later. The
theory is put forward that it was
worked under the supervision of
Matilda, wife of William the Con-
queror. The subject-matter pictured
in the tapestry suggests that it was
made by the Normans. The work
is done on a band of linen 230 ft. 9in.
long, deep, in wool of eight
different shades. There are 79 scenes
in a continuous succession interpreted
by inscriptions in Latin, and supple-
mentary scenes and figures appear in
a narrow border above and below.
Its historical value rests in the light
it throws on the customs, industries,
weapons, armor, civil and ecclesiasti-
cal costume, and furniture of the
period.
( 1 ) Correct tackle for the fish
known in N.S.W. as blackfish ? (2)
Hints on catching them, and their
haunts round Sydney ?
(1) The rod must be light, prefer-
ably of split-cane or greenheart, and
from 9ift. to in length, with a
3|in. or 4in. centrepin-reel, carrying
about 100yds. of very fine plaited-
silk or ordinary silk-twist, to which
must be attached a long, very fine
Japanese gut-cast. A No. 10 sneck
or French hook is best for general
use. A light quill or cedar float is
most suitable. It is essential to have
enough lead on the cast to keep the
float almost submerged, for the fish
must have no difficulty in downing
it. A long-handled net is necessary
for use from wharves and piers; a
shorter one for boat-fishing. For.
rock-fishing a loaded float is used.
(2) The usual haunts of blackfish
are in localities with rocky, muddy
or sandy bottoms, preferably close
inshore, piles of wharves or piers
being favorable haunts. Their diet
consists almost wholly of seaweed.
Seagrass for inside-fishing may be
gathered from the rocks about
Sydney Harbor or Botany Bay; it
may also be bought in Sydney.
Select the longest and strongest for
bait, and chop up the rest very
finely. This chopped grass is mixed
with sand by taking handfuls of each
and rubbing strongly until the weed
is reduced to shreds. Throw it in
the water in moderate quantities, not
big, solid handfuls, and throw well
up against the tide, otherwise the
fish will be drawn away. When bait-
ing the hook, wind the grass around
it as naturally as possible, and when
the fish draws the float beneath the
surface allow it plenty of time,
especially when the drift is slow.
Brief Answers
A.G.S.: (1) When the trunks have
been cut as close to the ground as
possible, strip the remaining bark
further down and cut or . pull it off.
Pour kerosene into the interstices,
but not enough to flood the ground
and damage other plants by seepage.
If the stumps show signs of growing
again, boiling water should com-
pletely kill them, but must be care-
fully used, as it also damages the
soil. (2) Yes. (3) Yes, but this oil
has been used for its oil-content, and
smuch of its virtue has departed. A
spent-material, it would need more
frequent renewal than paint or fresh
oil T.F.: W'ould need to know the
district of derivation of your word
for detailed check. Nearest is
“wyeeboo,” small. Others are:
“wyomba,” good; “wyuna,” clear
water; “wyeena,” small tree;
“wyeera,” to dig the soil; “wyanga,
mother; “wyluga,” black cockatoo.
F.S.P.: “British Book News, 65
Davies - street, London, W. 1....
L.8.A.: Article “D. H. Lawrence in
Australia,” by Roland E. Robinson,
was printed on the “Red Page” of
The Bulletin of April 8, 1953....
E.W.R.: (1) The Plastics Institute ot
Australia (N.S.W. Section), Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington-street, Sydney.
(2) Australian Wool Bureau, 414
Collins-street, Melbourne. (3) New
England New State Movement, Box
18, Post Office, Armidale (N.S.W.).
(4) Standards Association of Austra-
lia, Science House, Gloucester-street,
Sydney. (5) Australian Irrigation
Development Association, City
Mutual Building, 60 Hunter-street,
Sydney A.T.M.: Write Old Age
Pensions Branch, Department ot
Social Services, 52 Carrington-street,
Sydney D.S.: Yes, from the Com-
monwealth Statistician, Common-
wealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics, Canberra, A.C.T.
R.J.8.: (1) The words of the affirma-
tion of allegiance are: “I, , do
solemnly, sincerely and truly affirm
and declare that I will be faithful
and bear true allegiance to her
Majesty Queen Elizabeth, her heirs
and successors according to law.”
(2) This affirmation does not require
the holding of a Bible. Kissing is no
longer part of the ceremony of taking
an oath....W.McK.: The Australian
representative of Hamish Hamilton,
Ltd., London, is Edgar G* Harris,
296 Beaconsfidd-parade, Middle Park,
Melbourne H.0’8.: Berger’s heat-
resisting aluminium paint should give
satisfactory results for the exterior
painting of an incinerator....
R.S.G.: (1) Yes, but the sale ot
“yellow” margarine, the restriction on
which has been lifted in New York,
is still under restriction in seven
States of the U.S. (2) Approxi-
mately 7s. 6d. and 3s. (3) 1954
figures: 91b. per head, butter; 7.81 b.
per head, margarine. (4) 2s. a lb.
(5) Is. subsidy J.F.S.: Australian
Aboriginal Words and Place Names,
compiled by Sydney J. Endacott;
New South Wales Aboriginal Place
Names and Euphonious Words and
Their Meanihgs... .E.M.H.: The
Sydney Railway Company, formed on
January 27, 1848, and incorporated
on October 1, 1849. The line was
begun on July 30, 1850, and com-
pleted on September 3, 1855, 500
men being brought from England in
the intervening period M.G.: No,
in Scotland barristers are known as
advocates. “Writers to the Signet’
and “Writers” are types of solidtors.
The title of Q.C. is limited to bar-
risters, and a “Writer to the Signet
cannot be a Q.C F.D.: Jack
Howe’s shearing-record is reported
as 321 sheep in 7hr. 40mm. at Alice
Downs station near Blackall, on
October 10, 1892.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor ,* they
will be considered for 'publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
#
G.H.: We really prefer Australian
subjects .J.S.: It doesn’t ring true.
H.C.S.: After a promising start
it just fell to pieces J.G.: An old
theme not very well handled... •
A.R.: There are times when we feel
that we never want to hear another
kookaburra laugh in print....
J.McF.: Five lines from ‘ Clean-up
Day at Longueville”:
Furtive neighbors ardently seeking,
Avidly peeking, groping and poking,
Destroying the symmetry of neatly-pued
rubbish.
Weighing, considering, eyes gleaming
greedily, ' ,
Darting and grasping some treasured
nonentity.
L.W.: “Jet Propulsion” was in
and out of the office within a fraction
of a second....F.O’S.: Almost too
horrible to contemplate K.G.W.:
The presence of strangers in our
midst is here recorded:
There was a time when Alice Springs
had never seen a Yankee,
That was before bombs H and A had
come to drive us cranky,
But now the town is full of guys from
joints like Tennessee,
And whatever they’re a-doin’ of is hush
as hush can be.
D.McK.: It travels a very uneven
road E.H.8.: It would appear
that the current craving among the
unpublishable poets of Australia is
for tranquillity—that, and nothing
more.... J.A.W.: You certainly
won’t:
But if this poem should fail,
And the editor says I must atone,
And go where rejects weep and wail
I certainly won’t be alone.
G.M.B.: The old coach-driver
will not crack a whip in our pages.
J.L.P.: Our waterfront-corres-
pondent doubts whether: —
As the migrant ship made fast along,
A thousand throats burst forth in song,
A song vibrant with hope and cheer,
Of their future home —Australia!
... .Ripponlea: Must find space for
your triolet: —
0 Edgar, don’t tackle the tower tonight!
’Tis far too windy to walk the wire!
Though the lamps of Luna are luminous
and bright, , .
0 Edgar, don’t tackle the tower to-
night! , , , ._
The Fire Eater coughed and a spark in
its flight ,
Set the Bearded Lady’s whiskers afire.
0 Edgar, don’t tackle the tower tonight !
’Tis far too windy to walk the wire!


See How They've Run —
From “Red Hots” to Night Trots
By RAY ALEXANDER
PRACTICALLY overnight,
trotting has become really
big sport on an Australia-
wide scale, and especially
night-trotting. -
With one remarkable ex-
ception, the sport is flourishing,
from well to extraordinarily
well, in every State of the Com-
monwealth. The exception, oddly
enough, is Queensland, where
the warm climate would be ideal
for racing under the lights.
In Western Australia, of
course, night-trotting has been
a leading sport for some years:
there was a special meeting to
entertain the Queen on the last
lap of her Australian visit. In
Victoria, too, it has boomed for
quite a time ; in South Australia
also trotting is flourishing; and
from Tasmania come topnotch
speedsters, capable of showing
mainlanders the way round.
Then there is New Zealand,
which many will think of as the
hub of Australasian trotting—
F. P. and Mrs. Kelloway's champion, Ribands (P. J. Hall), completing his Harold Park
(Sydney) record mile, 1.58 7.10.
so much so that N.S.W. not long
back had to put a limit on the
number of invaders from across
the Tasman. Indeed, New Zea-
land has rated so high in trot-
ting that it comes as a surprise
to learn that N.S.W. alone had
one and a half times as many
trotting-meetings last year as
were staged in N.Z.
It is the amazing spurt the
sport has put on in N.S.W.,
which has really put night-
trotting on an Australia-wide
basis, where it is rivalling the
gallopers, with increasing num-
bers agreeing that, held under
the lights, trotting is unsur-
passed as a racing spectacle.
It has reached the point where,
next February, a £12,500 Inter-
Dominion will be staged at Syd-
ney’s Harold Park. The track has
long had that name: it got it
from a noted imported trotter,
Childe Harold, well before the
light-harness sport was held
there under the glitter of lights.
This present year’s Derby at
the same address was worth
£3000; the N.S.W.T.C. hopes
for a £5OOO Derby next year,
with a £3OOO Sapling Stakes.
The club’s president, Mr. Alton
Cusick, has announced that
£500,000 is to be spent on
improvements to the ground,
and plans are now being looked
into. An amphitheatre set-up will
get over the difficulty of cramped
space. Parking in the tight by-
near the course presents
the only big problem.
The amazing thing about all
this is that it has come about
in only a few years—in fact,
since night-trotting was insti-
tuted at Harold Park. There
have always been trotting-
enthusiasts, of course, and the
history of trotting in the State
goes back to the early days, but
it is a spasmodic history, and
even when day-trots were regu-
lar they were mostly known as
the “red-hots.”
The first evidence of horse-
racing in Australia appears to be
the mention in the “Sydney
Gazette,” March 5, 1803, of a
sports-gathering at Parramatta.
Here were witnessed a match-
race between two gallopers, a
trotting-race, cock-fighting, a
wheelbarrow-race (with blind-
folded “pushers”), a sack-race,
and footracing. There seems
some confusion as to whether or
not the successful trotting-horfce
was named Miss Betty or Miss
Kitty, or whether that was the
rider!
There is subsequent evidence
of races contested by “light-
horsemen” of the barracks, who
raced over courses which are
now crowd-jostled streets. One
course used Park-street and had
now-congested Market-street as
its “run home.” Here Australia’s
Turf-history probably began.
At the beginning of the present
century, match-races on the
highways were all the sport had
to offer in N.S.W. In an attempt
at organisation enthusiasts held
meetings on the shores of
Botany Bay —Lady Robinson’s
Beach, Brighton-le-Sands. An
occasional meeting was also run
at the Royal Agricultural Show-
ground (then known as Driving
Park).
Even so, the “big” races were
held highway helter-skelter
style. It was “Go! ” at the Cap-
tain Cook Hotel, Moore Park;
jockeying for positions across to
the Cleveland-street junction;
and “whips out” to the old toll-
gate which stood near the
present Anzac Parade, Alison-
road intersection. This was their
favorite course.
For some reason or other the
gendarmerie frowned on these
races and the huge wagers that
went with them. Perhaps they
were thinking of the pedestrian.
And, since no one had thought
of yellow-lines in those days,
the enthusiasts were driven into
a discursive huddle.
McGrath’s Saddlery was the
scene; June 4, 1902. (A well-
known harness-maker, the late
Mr. McGrath is represented in
the sport today by his son Jim
McGrath, of the N.S.W.T.C.).
The enthusiasts—33 of them —
emerged from their huddle with
£9 7s. 9d. and ideas about form-
ing a club. Within a week 22
members had each paid £2 2s.
subscription into a formally
constituted club. In another
week the club was holding its
first meeting.
It was held, too, on the Harold
Park ground, then known as
Forest Lodge, the club’s main
course today. On this ground,
leased from the Metropolitan
Rugby Union, a five-event pro-
gramme was staged, with stakes
of ninety-sovereigns. A gallant
old trotter, Fritz, featured in the
afternoon’s proceedings with an
attempt on his own mile-record
of 2.13 f. The best he could
manage that day was 2.16.
(Ribands last year Iran the mile
in 1.58 7-10 on the Harold Park
circuit.)
A succession of meetings at
the Kensington Pony Course
followed the two initial meetings
at the Forest Lodge track. Then,
in June, 1904, the Forest Lodge
ground, at this time known as
Epping, again became the centre
for the sport.
It was not, however, till 1911
that the sport really began to get
somewhere. That year the club
was officially recognised as the
controlling body in the State.
Also, the ground was purchased
from the Metropolitan Rugby
Union for £10,400. It was
renamed Harold Park in 1929,
in tribute to the already-men-
tioned Childe Harold, who, as a
sire, greatly influenced local
breeding.
In a fashion, the sport —■
dubbed the “red-hots” —struggled
along there till quite recent times
before the boom happened. This
dates from 1948, when, due to
the tireless campaigning of such
enthusiasts as Clarrie Bezar and
Harold Brewer (Brewer one
night spoke for two hours in
Sydney Town Hall on his pet
enthusiasm), the State Par-
liament, after lengthy debate,
came good with permission for
night-trotting at the Park.
In 1952, some 38,000-odd fol-
lowers of the sport somehow
managed to squeeze into Harold
Park to see Avian Derby cap-
ture that year’s Inter-Dominion
Final. Attendance-figures have
gone up each year since the in-
stallation of the lights. Last year
the average attendance was
18,859, with a total of £202,000
distributed in prizemoney.
N.S.W. show-societies did
much to keep the sport on its
feet during the lean years. People
who went to shows for any of
the many reasons that people
go to shows found the keenly
contested trotting-races among
the best of the ring-attractions.
Even today the shows, including
the Sydney Royal, draw crowds
under the spell of the light-
harness sport. Often some of
the best horses in the country can
be seen whirling round the small
show-tracks—at times for a very
small prize or trophy. Actually
these shows are important to the
training of the young trotter and
to his preparation for bigger
events.
Meantime, over these years
when the sport just struggled
along in N.S.W., it flourished
and became a top-line attraction
in W.A. Early venturings there
were meetings at Claremont
Showground and Belmdnt Park.
These were succeeded by the
formation of the Western Aus-
tralian Trotting Association on
June 28, 1913. Its first pro-
gramme featured a Tradesmen’s
Handicap, for any bona fide
tradesman’s horse. A stipulation
was that the horse must have
been in regular use in the owner’s
business during the previous
three months, and must not,
during that period, have been
trained by or been in the charge
of a professional trainer.
The Bulletin
contributor (“Cat’s
Meat”) who in 1936
alleged that, “apart
from his special pur-
pose as a gambling-
medium, the trotter
is as useless to the
country as his
mechanised cousin
the fruit-machine,”
was apparently un-
acquainted with such
“races.”
What really gave
Westralia its impetus
as a trotting-State
was its early change
to night - trotting.
Later, results were
to prove the installa-
tion of the lights the
quintessence of the
sport. With lights
flickering on from
west to east, trotting
took on a new face.
The days of “out
of the milk-cart and
into the spider” were
soon only memories when a
W.A. official realised from
watching night bicycle-racing
that trotting would take as a
night sport. On the night of
January 24, 1914, the lights
were switched on in the West
for the first of Australia’s night-
trotting meetings.
It was at once realised that
the sport under the lights
attracted the public, but it was
the opening, later, of the now-
famous Gloucester Park course
which gave things a “kick” in
the West. There was rapid pro-
gress there prior to and even
during the war years. In his
book Globe Derby’s Greatness
V. L. Dullard writes: “Thanks
mostly to the vision of the late
James Brennan, a piece of value-
less land in Perth was converted
into a beautiful course, and the
glamor of the electric-light at-
tracted big attendances at the
Saturday-night meetings.”
Fostered by J. P. Stratton, the
first revival of the Australasian
(Inter - Dominion) Champion-
ships was held at Gloucester
Park in 1936. The event was
won by a Globe Derby per-
former —and one of his best at
that. This was the tenacious
little black mare Evicus, whose
2.3 mile at the Championships
makes hers a name to be
remembered.
Among horses imported dur-
ing the West’s boom-period
were Peter Stretta, a good-siring
son of Peter the Great; Maxe-
gin (who later went to New
Zealand), by an Axworthy horse,
Judge Maxey; and the dual-
gaited Raider, a worthy son of
Peter Volo and a great boost to
Australian trotting-blood.
Old family names such as
Kersley and Richter, Thomas,
Keys, Pollock, Porter, Johnson,
Hough, Foy, Williams, Wood-
worth and others have been
prominent in Westralia’s trotting
for years and in most cases still
are. Around them the light-
harness sport in the West has
been built. The Kersleys have
been noted for their activity
in the West, and throughout Aus-
tralasia, ever since F. J. Kersley
lugged a team of pacers from
Hindmarsh (S.A.) to the West
in 1929.
Frank Kersley, who drove
Tennessee Sky to victory in the
1954 Inter-Dominion, was for a
while a steward in Victoria,, in
charge of that State’s newly-
created school for young trainers
and drivers a comprehensive
pre-race education for young
men wishing to take the reins
into their hands.
Kersley recently resigned the
post in order to take on a team
of horses again. The school
will go on, and
N.S.W. is now fostering a
similar plan . . .
South Australia was the next
State to install the lights, and
so the next to come into trot-
ting prominence.
As early as January 1, 1878,
a race meeting, which included
a three-mile race for trotters,
was held. A trotting-club was
then formed and a meeting held
at Victor.a Park in 1880.
Meetings on the line of trades-
men’s picnics, were held at The-
barton in those days, with the
record gate £ll 2s. 6d. and the
cost of trophies about £lO.
A meeting under lights was
held at Jubilee Oval, Adelaide,
on November 6, 1920; but big
things for the sport did not
come until later. When they did
come —at the Wayville course —-
the rise was rapid: from
“peanut” meetings in the early
’thirties to a rich Inter-Dominion
Carnival in 1937.
S.A. Trotting Club president
J. J. Rice figured prominently,
along with other stalwarts, in
the early history of the sport.
To have been president of the
club throughout its rise is his
remarkable achievement.
Drawing the biggest crowds
and giving the largest stakes in
the Commonwealth, South Aus-
tralia became the show State of
the sport. Although the club
charged only a small admission-
price, a low nomination-fee,
gave large stakes and paid a big
State Government tax, it dis-
tributed large sums among
charities. When World War II
expenditure was mounting, the
club weighed-in with £5OOO. An-
other £2OOO was given to the
fund for the ill-fated Sydney.
Country meetings at Gawler
and Strathalbyn took on im-
portance with the new era of
trotting in S.A., both places
being near the metropolitan
area. At a little centre 100 miles
from Adelaide, Snowtown, it was
decided to hold one all-import-
ant meeting a year. Here, the
first Pacers’ Derby in Australia
was staged. By putting their
every resource into the one
meeting, the officials of the
Snowtown Trotting Club put the
town on the map. It became
known as the “Goshen of Aus-
tralia” —the particular Goshen
referred to in that naming is the
one that’s the scene of the
famous American three-year-old
trotters’ race, the Hambletonian.
J. E. Pridham is credited with
much of the success which came
to Snowtown. In 1940 the enter-
prising officials there had that
grand pacer Lawn Derby along
in an attempt to smash his own
(Continued on page 34)


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALLEN REGINALD MERRICK late
of 259 John Street Singleton.—TAKE
NOTICE that OLGA MERLE MERRICK
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1149
of 1954 on the ground of your adultery
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
11th November 1955 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
GOULD & SHAW, Solicitors, of 72 Pitt
Street, Sydney, city agents for WHIT-
FIELD & ANDERSON, Solicitors, of 108
John Street, Singleton.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALICK FISHER-STAMP late of Lot
20 Chester Hill Road Chester Hill.—
TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHEA MARY
FISHER-STAMP has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 3235 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three yeafs and upwards and is ask-
ing for the exercise of the Court’s dis-
cretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1954 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 4th November 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
WALTER LINTON & BENNETT, Soli-
citors, 375 George Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. ?(. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
DIGESTIVE TROUBLES
COLITIS, DIVERTICULITIS
take; oherba tablets
Specially I repared from an old
proven her Iml recipe. For chronic
conditions. Postal note for 12/6 will
provide one month’s treatment.
ALLAN HURRAY PTY. LTD.,
I Maloney St., Mascot.
Between
Ourselves
I'Lij
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL URM.
The big crowd at Warw.ck
Farm on Saturday had their first
view of New Zealanders Somer-
set Fair and Ray Ribbon, in the
Warwick Stakes (w.f.a.). The
finish between Prince Cortauld
and Somerset Fair was a thriller.
It indicated that they will high-
light spring racing both in Syd-
ney and in Melbourne.
Prince Cortauld is to compete
at w.f.a. only, but Somerset Fair
is favorite for the Epsom and
also tops the Caulfield Cup table.
His Warwick Farm performance
was high-class. N.Z. jockey G.
Hughes found N. Sellwood a
tough opponent, and was set to
try and win the Stakes the hard
way. Sellwood hugged the rails
from start to finish. The w.-f.-a.
races of the spring round should
be the best for many seasons.
Somerset Fair lost no friends
for the Epsom—rather he gained
many. He is a handsome indi-
vidual, and his looks are backed
by performance. Another New
Zealander, King’s Fair, is on
second line of Epsom favoritism,
with Persian Link, Plato, and
Ray Ribbon all well favored.
Persian Link didn’t show up in
the Warwick Stakes, nor was
he expected to in such an event.
His game is handicaps, and he
should soon rejoin the winning-
list in that company.
Close to the lead all the way,
then fourth at the finish of the
Warwick Stakes was an impres-
sive display by Metropolitan
candidate Ray Ribbon.
There’s a big difference in the
weight carried to victory by the
McCarten - trained William
Charles in the;Warwick Farm
Encourage and his Metrop.
impost—at the Farm, 8.12 ; in
the Metrop., 7.6, only 61b. above
the minimum. The Kerry Piper
four-year-old horse put up a
great run at Warwick Farm ; he
was last half-a-mile from home
in a strung-out field. As
William Charles is a half-brother
to dual Derby-winner Alister,
and comes from the family
which produced that grand
stayer Pantheon (imp.), he
should prove a stayer as the
season advances.
In the autumn Beaupa gave
indications of staying-power
when winning a Warwick Farm
mile-and-a-half handicap from
Earldom and Talisman, and
next start finishing third to
Talisman and Finito in the
Sydney Cup. He returned to
the winning-list in the Spring
Cup at Warwick Farm, and
immediately firmed for the
Metropolitan, in which he has
7.11. At the Farm he had 7.10,
which included 31b. over for
N. Sellwood to take the mount.
Just as well Sellwood did; it
was a tight finish.
Before racing at the Farm
the three-year-old Midstream
(imp.) colt LandV was regarded
as a threat to the better fancied
candidates for the A.J.C. Derby,
but he was defeated by Caranna
in a close finish, and his classic
prospects do not now look so
bright. Caranna gave him a
good start and a beating.
Caranna might be a Derby
possibility, but he has yet to
tackle the better-class three-
year-olds.
Topweight Prince Auburn,
heavily supported, won the final
Warwick Farm race, the Second
Novice, like a good horse. He
is to contest the Forbes Cup
this coming Saturday. A six-
year-old son of Melbourne Cup
winner Russia, he will then go
to Cowra for the Cup there on
September 16. Raced by Mrs.
M- E. Leeds, he has won 22
races.
At Moonee Valley on Satur-
day winners included 14-to-l
Kinder Blue, a first foal and
from a half-sister to Flemington
and Caulfield winner Bright
D’Amour. She is by Blue
Mickie (imp.) from Kinderspiel
by Kinderscout (imp.) from
Brise D’Amour by Windbag.
With a good round of races for
three-year-old fillies coming up
at Melbourne meetings, she
could emerge as a class filly. She
was bred by J. E. Becker at his
Ellerton Lodge stud (S.A.).
Owners J. P. Crennan and
S. G. White placed Compound
right in taking him to New-
castle for the £2OOO Cameron
Handicap (7 furlongs). The
five-year-old Stockade (imp.)
gelding won the sprint in record
time from favorite King’s Fair
and Flying Trophy. A 10-to-l
shot, Compound ran it in 1.24.
The favorite was hampered in
the final stages. Compound, a
versatile performer, has 7.13 in
the Epsom.
Pride of Egypt, Canterbury
Guineas winner last spring,
didn’t compete in the A.J.C.
Derby; Prince Morvi is one to
have brought off that rare
double. Last spring Prince Del-
ville, third to Pride of Egypt
in the Canterbury Guineas and
second to the same horse in the
Rosehill Guineas, had an easy
win in the A.J.C. Derby. Interest-
ing three-year-olds engaged in
this Saturday’s Canterbury
Guineas are Kingster, Aboukir,
Knave, Landy and Teranyan.
Darby Munro, who is about to
launch out as a trainer, holds an
excellent riding record in the
six-furlongs Canterbury Stakes
(w.f.a.), one of the feature events
on this, Saturday’s S.T.C. card.
Munro won the race on
Shannon, Sleepy Fox, Katanga,
Reading, Beaulivre and Lough
Neagh. Bill Cook, still riding in
grand form, won this sprint on
Holdfast in 1930 and ’32. He
also scored on Gay Monarch,
Beau Vite and Arachne. Some
of Australia’s best sprinters have
won the event. Holdfast had
three wins and San Domenico
two. Saturday’s contest could
provide the keenest race in
years.
The Tasmanian Racing Club’s
profit for the 1954-55 season was
a modest £629. The club paid
£3445 tax, which worked out at
an average of £344 each race-day.
Teranyan, winner in two-year-
old company at Randwick
and Canterbury last season, is a
Stockade (imp.) - Aspect colt,
raced by W. R. Porter, who in
the present season will also race
Teranyan’s half-brother by
Newtown Wonder (imp.). Aspect
is by Eastern Monarch (imp.)
from Perspective (a brilliant gal-
loper) by The Welkin (imp.)
from Monodia by Curtain Lec-
ture (imp.). Teranyan could do
well in the Canterbury Guineas.
* * *
N.S.W. Trotting Club ven-
tured a Thursday-night meeting
at Harold Park last week and
“What chance have we got against HIM? He's
ex-Borovansky-ballet."
drew 16,000. They follow-up
with a Wednesday (today)
fixture at Menangle and return
to headquarters on Friday night.
Topliners are starting to sneak
back from their winter-spells
for a warm-up or two before
the big races of the spring.
Recent Derby winner First
Variety went out favorite in the
Kensington Handicap on Thurs-
day. He locked wheels with a
lap to go and couldn’t get clear
till the Flat, by when Nobby had
shot to a winning lead. No
doubt that he was a certainty
beaten, and the way he’s look-
ing he won’t be long on the
waiting-list.
Moon, sleek in his
shiny black coat and long mane,
was in the right mood; he won
by two lengths. On his night,
this Black Pahther horse is a
track-burner. Through his sire
he gets the Globe Derby strain,
and his dam, a Minton Derby
mare, traces to Rock Huon.
Eureka Scott was an interesting
winner of the fast-class Mascot
Handicap: it was his last race
before going to stud. Eureka
Scott is by U. Scott (one of the
best sires ever imported to
N.Z.), and is out of a Jack Potts
mare, Eureka Girl. Mares by
Jack Potts are probably the most
highly regarded dams of the
light-harness sport in the
Southern Hemisphere; only
mares by Wrack —the strain of
champion square-gaiter Sandan
—rival them.
+ +
When the Davis Gup was last
played for at Forest Hills
(U.S.A.), in 1950, Sedgman, not
unexpectedly, beat Tom Brown
in the first singles and Mc-
Gregor beat Schroeder in the
second; then Sedgman and
Bromwich, in a hard-fought,
five-set game, won the doubles.
This year’s challenge-round
somewhat paralleled the 1950
round. Not unexpectedly, Rose-
wall toppled Seixas 6-3, 10-8,
4-6, 6-2 in the first singles.
(Seixas has beaten Rosewall
only once,in last year’s challenge
round.) Hoad beat the redoubt-
able Trabert in the second
singles, 4-6, 6-3, 6-3, 8-6. Then,
in a tense, five-set battle (12-14,
6-4, 6-3, 3-6, 7-5), Hoad and
Hartwig, with Hartwig best on
court, defeated Trabert and
Seixas. The Australians both
won their final singles, to make
it 5-0. This is the first time a
country has regained the Cup the
year after losing it.
Each of the three Australians
played his vital part: if it’s right
to single one out it’s possibly
Hoad, who has fought back to
the top after being a doubtful
quantity for some time. But
that singling-out would under-
rate Rosewall, who has played
well in every tie right through
to the challenge-round; his
consistent excellence tends to be
taken for granted. Finally, play-
ing his important part from the
sideline, as so often before, cap-
thin Harry Hopman, with
capable handling and control of
the team and all-round general-
ship.
* * *
As in their earlier clash this
year, youthful Geelong, in the
first V.F.L. semi-final, defeated
Essendon, the final margin being
somewhat the same both times —
firstly 10.5-7.10, this time 9.7-
7.11. There were 73,000 at the
M.C.G. to see a Geelong too
speedy and vigorous, far steadier
in defence, lead by 30 points at
half-time. At threequarter-time
Geelong still led, 7.6-2.7; and,
though Essendon fought back
strongly in the last quarter, it’s
Geelong to go on and meet the
loser of Saturday’s Melbourne
v. Collingwood.
St. Kilda tallied only 861
points in the 18 V.F.L. home-
and-home rounds. Only one
other team in the past 10 years
has failed to top 1000 —Haw-
thorn in 1953. Footscray had the
season’s lowest total booted
against it (1018) —it was ’Scray’s
forwards, not defenders, who let
it down. Footscray and Mel-
bourne (total points against,
1036) were the only two clubs
against which no century was
kicked.
Winner of the 1955 Brown-
low Medal, South Melbourne
full-back Fred Goldsmith, first
full-back ever to win the medal.
Runner-up, a point behind
Goldsmith, was Essendon
skipper Bill Hutchison, who won
the medal in 1953 and had been
runner-up in ’52.
Three top-line V.F.L. foot-
ballers have given it away: Lou
Richards (Collingwood), Clive
Philp (Hawthorn) and Les Foote
(St. Kilda). Richards, 32, the
Magpies’ skipper, one of their
“big” little-men, and a person-
ality in the game, retired after his
250th senior game for ’Wood ;
lie began in 1941. Foote, 31, also
had been a senior player since
1941; before coming to the
Saints as captain-coach he’d
played 133 games with North.
Philp, 29, 110 senior games with
the Hawks, has been one of the
best centre-halfbacks playing this
year; in June he repped in
Melbourne against W.A.
During the first semi-final in
Sydney’s Australian Rules, North
Shore captain John Hardy was
given a double-kick. Hardy was
pushed in the back as he goaled
from a running shot; from the
“free” he goaled again. The
double-kick is rare ; remarkably,
however, it was awarded in one
weekend last season to two first-
graders, one in Melbourne, one
in Sydney (the V.F.L. player was
Footscray star Jack Collins), and
both, like Hardy, got two goals
out of it. The matter is covered
by Rule 17 (r), which says that
“all breaches of the laws must
be penalised whether the ball is
dead or in play.”
* * *
Up to their necks in mud, the
Australian Rugby Union tourists
in N.Z. also happened to be
up to their best form when they
downed combined Buller-West
Coast, 13-3. The Buffers were
notable with the ball at their
toes in forward-rushes ; but they
were beaten by tries that began
in the Australian half —two by
winger Garth Jones.
In Sydney’s Union comp.
Eastern Suburbs stashed-away
St. George jerseys for a season,
11-6, in the first semi-final. The
winners found St. George’s
weakness in their centres:
eighteen-year-old Scots College
student, Norm Storey, scored
two tries. Easts to meet the
loser of this week’s Gordon-
University clash.
* * *
Playing fine golf, the N.S.W.
women’s team held the touring
British girls to a tie in the four-
somes match at Sydney. N.S.W.
is the first State to hold the
visitors in the foursomes.
“Wyuna”: Victoria’s Country
Golf Week can claim five
brothers Briody competing, one
playing for Corangamite district,
one for Corio and three for
Ballarat. All are eligible for
the country championship,
entries for which are restricted to
players on a handicap of 4 or
less. This must be unique in
Australian golf history.
* * *
“Allan B.”: Lake Wendouree,
Ballarat (Vic.), is being length-
ened for Olympic Games rowing
next year. Depth of the course
at the starting-line will be
dredged to nearly 6ft. Stands
to accommodate 3000 are to be
built over the water with
entrances on the lakeside.
Ballarat is flat-out to improve
the area all round the lake as
part of the show.


"Here is the news, rend by..."
Six Deadlines a Day
By MARGARET CLARKE
The first shift starts at 5 a.m.
The journalist on duty is likely
to doubt his sanity in entering
such a profession as he drags
himself out of bed, on the shrill
of the alarm, at 3.30 a.m. The
early bird does not catch any
worms in this game: he simply
loses sleep, gets crow’s-feet under
his eyes and stomach ulcers.
And, unless he has a remarkable
constitution, he loses all his
friends, because he is always too
tired to accept any social engage-
ments.
He enters the building, like a
pariah, through the back-door,
and creeps up the back-stairs, for
the front-office is locked and the
lifts immobilised. Only the pub-
lishing department is awake and
active. There, men are hurling
bundles of newspapers into the
trucks which, one by one, rumble
down the empty streets to dump
the papers on the doorsteps of
newsagents.
The only sound on the
editorial floor is the bump of
the cleaner’s broom against the
BIG tennis at Wimbledon;
the Tests at Lord’s; the
Davis Cup challenge
round...
Australia receives the results
in the early hours of the morn-
ing. A radio-journalist, rubbing
sleep from his eyes, gropes
through the semi-darkness of a
deserted editorial department to
the teleprinter-room. His station
must be first on the air with the
results.
The pace of the radio-
journalist’s life is measured in
seconds. The sub-editor’s room
of a daily paper is a slow-moving
place by comparison with the
radio-newsroom. The whole
paraphernalia of printing stands
between the newspaper and the
reading public. The radio-
journalist has no such protective
coatings: his news goes straight
from his typewriter into the
news-reader’s mouth. The item
may be broadcast five minutes
after the teleprinter ticked it out.
The story will not be in the
papers until the afternoon-
edition is on the streets. Per-
haps not until the following
morning.
“You spoil all our stories,”
gruffly said the chief sub-editor
of the daily paper whicl/ supplied
news for the commercial radio-
station with which I worked for
some years. “You will have all
the guts out of it before we even
have it set.”
It is an important nev/s-item ;
a judgment by the Industrial
Commission, say. The bones of
the thing will appear on the
front page of the paper. Inside
will be all the details and, likely
enough, a leading article to
blame or praise; a leader-page
special to explain the whys and
wherefors.
Many columns will be devoteci
to the story.
The radio-journalist must con-
vey the gist of the judgment,
together with enough back-
ground and forecasting to make
it intelligible, in a hundred
words, or less. If he is a good
radio-man, he will be able to
glance quickly through the copy
the sub-editor handed him, pick
out the essentials and dictate a
story to the typist, a story so
worded that the meanest intellect
can grasp its import, even
through the rattle and chatter
of the meal-table.
No subordinate clauses, no
hanging phrases at the beginning
of the sentence ; as few sibilants
as possible (since too many may
give the impression that the
news-reader is hissing); and a
simple approach to the subject,
dealing with point by point in
logical sequence. (“Never forget
that the radio-listener, unlike the
newspaper-reader, cannot go
back and re-read the opening
paragraph.”)
The formula is something like
this: “The cat sat on the mat.
It was a black cat. A mouse
appeared. The cat pounced.”
Sounds easy. . . Try it with a
judicial pronouncement.
The news-bulletins are broad-
cast at, say, 7.45 a.m., 10.30 a.m.,
12.30 p.m., 3.30 p.m., 7.00 p.m.
and 10.30 p.m. Six bulletins -a
day, and each must be different.
Each demands a new story to
lead off with. No listener must
be allowed to feel that he or she
is listening to something heard
before.
1 In the kind of radio-room
described here a staff of six
works in eight-hour shifts, five
days a week, Saturdays and
Sundays, Christmas and Easter
included. Each man has a two-
day break at the end of his five
days, and a month’s ho iday a
year.
“My cats think you have the best meat in town, Mr. Clancy."
walls and the ceaseless, nervous
chatter of the teleprinter. Reams
of news have billowed out on to
the floor, in duplicate, since the
last of the newspaper-staff went
home. The radio-man tears it off
—it is yards long—and scans it.
Tennis results. He goes into the
broadcasting studio, switches on
the microphone and gives the
results to the panel-operator,
who passes them on to the dawn-
session announcer. Or perhaps he
flashes them himself, interrupt-
ing the session to do so.
For the listener that method
is tinged with drama; the
results would seem to have come
straight from Wimbledon itself.
Most days there isn’t any news
worth flashing and the journalist
plods through all editions of
the morning-papers, and keeps
his eye on the teleprinter.
At 6 a.m. the typist arrives.
A sheaf of copy is ready for
her. She types her fair copies in
triplicate: one for the news-
reader, one for the files and one
for the chief-of-staff of the news-
paper. She is a good, fast typist
who never gets rattled; she can
stop and take a news-item over
the telephone; she can take
dictation; she counts the number
of words in the story and types
that at the foot of the page.
Occasionally the journalist
arrives at the office to find the
teleprinter chattering away in
futility at a paperless roller. The
late-stop sub. went home without
putting a new roll of “toilet-
paper” in the machine. The
radio-man rings A.A.P. with the
number of the last message
received —and discovers that the
lunatic there has been talking
to himself for two hours. Many
messages must be repeated.
There is a general hold-up.
Thallium for the late-stop man:
shooting would be too quick.
Other times the roll gets
twisted and a tangle of messages
are typed and retyped over one
another. Not even Scotland
Yard could decipher them. Then,
teleprinters seem to be irrespons-
ible beings that should never be
left alone for a second.
Back in the radio-newsroom
the journalist rings the rounds.
The C. 1.8. reports that “an un-
identified man” was knocked
down in . Parramatta-road at
4.30 a.m. and killed. He was
wearing a pair of grey slacks
with a patch of oil on the right
knee, a blue polo-necked jersey
and a brown sports-jacket, etc.
(describing his physical charac-
teristics). To which the journalist
adds: “Will any listener able to
identify this man please ring the
C. 1.8. or the nearest police-
station?”
Central District Ambulance:
nothing. No fires. No railway-
accidents ; not even a small
landslide or a delayed train.
The early-morning man always
tries to include something that
was not in the morning-papers.
Even a small thing, like a stone
thrown into the window of, a
radio-store in Petersham and the
theft of a mantel-radio, is a help
in the small hours of the
morning.
New, good, hard news by-
any-standards is rare at that time
of day. The cable-yieild is
usually fairly trivial, and local
sensations are rare. I do
remember the death of Sir Isaac
Isaacs (pilfered from the A.8.C.)
and a shooting-party at Palm
Beach which subsequently led to
a sensational court-case and a
long sentence for a well-known
man. Exceptional events.
Apart from those infrequent
pieces of “good news, fogs are,
in Sydney, as fruitful a source
as most things. A good heavy
fog on Sydney Harbor can
really get things going, with
plenty of ferries delayed and
others cancelled. You may even
be lucky enough to get a
collision.
The bulletin is ready. It is
twenty-to-eight. The news-reader
has not arrived. You fear that
the fog has delayed him. You
may even have to read the news
yourself. You go into the studio
and switch on the microphone
and give a test. You put the
bulletin on the reading-desk and
fan it out so that the reader
can remove sheet by sheet with-
out any of that rustling of paper
which comes over the air like the
sound of waves breaking on the
beach.
Down the channel comes the
theme. Still no news-reader. If
you are an introverted type, or
have a poor voice, you begin to
sweat a little. Well, the news
must be read. You sit down in
the “dentist’s-chair” and open
wide. You are about to say:
“And here is the news, read by
. . when the green-baize door
opens and a breathless man
enters. You glide silently off
the chair as he slithers on to it.
If you had begun reading he
takes up where you left off,
without leaving the slightest
pause in the air. He shows no
sign of breathlessness.
Fortunately for the nerves of
the journalist, the shave is seldom
as close as that. If it is closer
still the journalist must, per-
force, lumber through. That I
never was obliged to do ; but I
did spend a year suffering from
a news-reader who never arrived
until sixteen - minutes - to - eight.
You could have set the studio-
clock by him. But supposing his
train had been delayed just one
minute. . .
News-readers are supposed to
arrive in time to read the bulletin
through, ascertain the pronun-
ciation of any unfamiliar place-
names, and make sure there are
no clumsy sentences that will not
broadcast intelligibly. Mostly
they do so. The late-arriva!
news-reader who gets away with
it might be compared with the
concert-pianist (probably mythi-
cal) who came on to the plat-
form at the last minute and per-
formed, from sight, a work he
had never before seen or heard.
Some listeners think the news-
reader writes the news himself,
or extemporises from the news-
paper, or from memory. They
will ring-up and ask: “Will you
ask Jack Jones to tell us some
more about the gas-strike,
please?” Or: “Ask Jack Jones
if my son was on that derailed
train.”
You, who compiled the bul-
letin, feel a complete nonentity ;
an anon ym ou s fount of
knowledge whose brains are
picked by a man with marbles
in his mouth.
When the bulletin is safely on
the air, the journalist strolls
around to the teleprinter-room to
make sure that nothing of news-
note has taken place anywhere in
the world in the past half-hour.
Mostly pothing has ; but once
in a while the President of a
South American Republic is
assassinated ; or there is a large-
scale earthquake that kills
hundreds. In such circumstances
you intercept the typist before
she disappears for breakfast and
dictate something like this:
“Here is a message just handed
to me. The President of Y,
General X, has been assassinated
Outside the palace of Z. Revolu-
tionary forces have gained con-
trol of the city.” And you tiptoe
into the studio and slide this
sheet of paper into the news-
reader’s hand.
In your next bulletin you have
a big story about the assassina-
tion. But by then the news
seems stale. When you read it in
the afternoon-papers it is like
last week’s news, so “whiskery”
has it become.
The metabolism of this kind
of life is terrific. A story ages
before your very eyes. Events
flash past like shooting-stars. In
time of crisis an* item may be out
of date before it is even typed.
Take floods. You write a story
about the threat to the towns
of X, Y and Z. Before you have
had time to give it to the typist
the telephone rings. The corres-
pondent at Z tells you that X
and Y have been evacuated and
that the water is four-feet deep
in Z. You crumple up your para-
graph and start again.
During Hunter Valley floods
I remember rewriting more than
half the bulletin between half-
past-six and seven in the evening.
Two telephones rang incessantly
most of the afternoon and
country telegrams arrived in
sheaves.
But the sky is all too seldom
full of shooting-stars. Sometimes
the journalist is at his wits’-end
to know how he will be able to
make the bulletin sound like
news. Then the police-
roundsman, say, puts his head
around the door and tells you:
“A bus has overturned near the
Spit; seventy people are injured.”
“Hooray 1” the journalist cries,
as jubilant as the farmers were
after the rain that spoiled his
weekend. He sits down at his
typewriter and takes down the
story.
The sensation of the day! But
that is not enough to give the
radio-journalist the feeling that
he is living a full life. It is all
very well for the newspaper-man
who is concerned with only one
newspaper a day (never mind the
various editions); the radio-
journalist requires six sensations,
nicely spaced-out at two- or
three-hour|y intervals.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
kiiv mom saw
yttfUlu
SANDERS
9!a
statement*, etc., filed In the
"Sander*" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —ot
Price* *b4 f»f-
Ul«r »nf ormstio*
applitaUtD
any other period
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ua
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents — ,
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Lta.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd-
PERTH •• , .Docket Book Go. (Ausw
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE MIND OF ASIA
'TAKING a rather less un-
compromising view than did
Mr. Kipling on the problem of
East and West, M. R, Masani,
in a long review in the U.S.
quarterly “Foreign Affairs,”
makes—as the following excerpts
indicate—a very thorough
attempt to present what he calls
“the mind of Asia,” and to
suggest ways and means by
which Europe and the U;S.A.
can come to clearer terms
with it.
Mr. Masani formerly a
member of the Indian Con-
stituent Assembly and of the
Indian Parliament, a founder of
the All India Congress Socialist
party, and former Mayor of
Bombay—opens his case by
suggesting that Europe and the
U.S. do not always fully appre-
ciate “the decisive role that the
intelligentsia plays in'the under-
developed countries of Asia”:
\
The Asian Intellectual
“The ruling-class in these
countries is neither the landed
aristocracy nor the capitalists,
but the articulate urban edu-
cated class; this is the class
which creates public opinion and
makes and unmakes Govern-
ments. Because the great mass
of the people do not share in
the making of ‘public opinion/
particularly in regard to inter-
national affairs, the people who
write and read the newspapers
have a strategic importance out
of all proportion to their
numerical or economic
strength.”
Masani adds that, in a typical
sense the Asian intellectual
possessed of “the colonial
mind”—described as an “intel-
lectual hangover from a period
of subjection to one or other
kind of Western domination” —
“is a well-meaning, earnest soul.”
“He has a Messianic zeal to
reform the world. In the case
of only a handful does this dis-
content with the status quo lead
to acceptance of the Communist
creed. The typical Asian intel-
lectual is by no means a Com-
munist. Indeed, inclined as he
is to be liberal, gentle, devo-
tional and somewhat easygoing,
he is repelled by the intolerance
of Communism, its brutal sup-
pression of opposition, its exter-
mination of religion, its ruthless
efficiency.
“But, since many of us like to
think that unpleasant socio-
economic aspects of our coun-
tries are capable of being
transformed overnight, we look
around for a panacea. Reports
of the ‘success’ of the Soviet
Five Year Plans and of the
‘achievements’ of the Soviet
system evoke in us a ready
response. Why, we ask our-
selves, should not our own
country take similar shortcuts
to strength and prosperity?
“Studies which show that the
real wage of the Soviet worker,
whether in the factory or on the
collective-farm, may not, after
all, be higher today than it was
in 1913 are unknown to most of
us and we tend to brush them
aside as propaganda. In any
event, it would be a mistake to
think that most of us evaluate
national achievement in terms
of individual happiness or
comfort. Our main measuring-
rod is that of national strength
and power. The sons of Asians
who thrilled in response to the
victory of Japan over Tsarist
Russia respond similarly to the
military and diplomatic suc-
cesses of Communist China
over the Americans in Korea
and the French in Indo-China.
“Notwithstanding our accept-
ance —while it lasted —of the
Malenkov look, ‘the look that
failed,’ there is a vague sense of
uneasiness somewhere at the
back of our minds about the
brutalities of the Communist
system, ‘But then,’ comes the
thought, ‘you can hardly make
an omelette without breaking
eggs. In any event, it can’t
happen here. Our spiritual
tradition and way of life are
different from those of the
Russians, who, after all, were
always used to the Tsar and the
knout. What we shall do is
copy the Soviet plans without
resorting to the blood-baths and
the terrors of the secret-police.’
“No such caution, however,
marks our attitude toward Com-
munist China. ‘Ah,’ we say,
‘China is different!’ The
Chinese people, we have been
told, are overwhelmingly behind
the Communist Government.
Land-reform has been put into
effect. Corruption has been
rooted-out. No more flies are
to be seen. The trains run on
time. For the first time in their
history the Chinese people have
a clean and efficient Govern-
ment.
“More important, the Chinese
people are united; still more
important, the Chinese people
have told the white-man where
he gets off.
“At the same time we are
assured that the Chinese Com-
munist leaders are peace-loving.
Has not Chou En-lai affirmed
in Delhi, in Rangoon and in
Bandoeng his adherence to the
Five Principles of coexistence?
If the Chinese Communists
fought in Korea, that was only
because the Americans and
their ‘reactionary’ ally Syngman
Rhee were threatening their
frontier by marching, r despite
warnings, north of the 38th
Parallel. If they threaten to
fight in Formosa today, that is
because, after all, Formosa
belongs to China—or at least
Roosevelt, Churchill and Stalin
agreed during World War II
that it did.”
Between Two Power-blocs
“The oppression of the
colored peoples in South Africa
is a recurrent theme which we
are never allowed to forget.
And indeed why should we?
Thinking of color and insuffer-
able claims to white superiority
and supremacy, how can we
help but think of the suffer-
ing of the negroes in the United
States? Stories of discrimina-
tion in the Southern States make
our blood, boil, and the claims
of the United States to be the
leader of world democracy are
automatically deflated.
“Efforts at building collective
security in South-East Asia or
in the Middle East are resented
as bringing war nearer. They
run counter to the Asian instinct
for letting time do the job of
easing tensions rather than going
out halfway to meet the
problem. Why not trust the
Communist rulers to respond to
friendship and the jettisoning of
atomic weapons?
“Urgings to trust the Com-
munists bring up the topic of
coexistence. The picture, as it
is presented to us in Asia, is
that of Russia and China
responding to the plea for
coexistence, while the perverse
Americans refuse to accept it.
“It is not recalled that Com-
munist dogma rejects the very
possibility of coexistence,, and
that it is their bitter experience
with Communist practice since
1945 that stops the spokesmen
of the democracies from giving
three cheers every time the
word is mentioned. If occa-
sionally it is mentioned, it is
dismissed with a shrug of the
shoulders, something about ‘a
plague on both your houses.’
“In the view of most of us
in Asia, the world is divided
into two Power-blocs, with a
few peace-loving nations in
between. We see the efforts
made by this Third Force as the
major influence restraining the
two armed giants from World
War 111. This ‘two-Power-bloc’
thesis is at the root of much of
our thinking, and it makes it
possible for us to equate the
total suppression of liberty in
Russia and China with the con-
tinuing practice of colonialism
by some of the Western Powers
and of racial discrimination in
Africa and the United States.
“Having judged both sides to
be equally guilty, we do not
find it difficult to move on to an
acceptance of the theory of
equidistance preached by the
Indian Socialist leader, Dr.
Rammanohar Lohia, who urges
‘an attitude of mind that keeps
away as sharply from the
Atlantic camp as from the Soviet
camp, from capitalism as well
as Communism. To prefer one
is to weaken our capacity to
combat the other and to build
our own way.’ ”
Environment
After discussing the “common
mind or attitude” in Asia,
Masani goes on to ask, “Why is
it that a body of men, many of
whom have been exposed to the
same education as their counter-
parts in Europe and America,
should develop such a distinctive
pattern of thought?”:
“Consider first the environ-
ment in which the Asian intel-
lectual of this kind finds him-
self. It is true that his country
has recently achieved its national
independence. The withdrawal
of Western domination has,
however, left the new ruling-
class facing tremendous
economic, social and cultural
problems. The general pattern
is of a stagnant economy ; agri-
culture with low productivity
hampered still by the relics of
landlordism; industry as yet
without the strength to push
through by itself the process of
industrialisation; on the one
hand a shockingly low national
dividend, on the other only too
often a rapidly rising popula-
tion. On the social side there
is a predominantly illiterate
population, steeped largely in
ignorance and superstition, with
low physical vitality and low
social mobility.
“National pride demands that
one shall catch up, if not with
the prosperity of the United
States or Canada, at least with
that of France or Italy. Yet
the new ruling-class finds itself
ill-equipped to perform this
task. Brought up mostly on a
study of the humanities, it
lacks both the managerial and
technical skill required to put
through that process of
modernisation, economic and
social, which is obviously needed
for the building of a 20th-
century-nation State.”
“A Whipping Boy”
Following a long discussion
on lack of faith, instability and
uncertainty, Masani continues:
“Many of us have ‘a private
version of Communism’ which
we equate with fine ideals such
as those of liberty, equality and
fraternity. ' ‘This private
version,’ it has been aptly said,
‘gets linked with the Russian
version through semantic con-
fusion and we walk straight into
the Communist trap.’ This
also explains the sense of guilt
felt in opposing Communism.
“It is understandable that,
“De Volkskrant," Amsterdam.
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY
Dutch view of the German problem—though it omits the
possibility that Germany might unite itself.
deprived now of British or
Dutch rule on which to blame
all our misfortunes, we should
look outside our country for a
whipping-boy to take the place
of our old masters. Memories
of past political subjection
combine with resentment at
continuing claims to white
supremacy to make the United
States, the current symbol of
white supremacy, the obvious
target of our righteous anger.
“By a queer twist, the Great
Russian, who is also a white-
man, is excluded from this
hated category! For one thing,
Russia has been presented to us
as a great Eurasian Power, and
the unfortunate use of the
terms ‘East’ and ‘West’ by the
statesmen and columnists of
England and America only helps
to confirm this.”
“Laskiology”
“Recently there have been
certain manifestations in
America and Europe not only
of impatience and irritation but
also of a degree of exasperation,
helplessness and defeatism with
what have been described as
‘astigmatic ambiguities’ and an
‘incredibly complex, knotted
coil of attitudes.’ It is evi-
dently felt by some that the
Asian intellectual is a unique
phenomenon, likeable as a
human being, pleasant to know,
but hopelessly baffling on the
plane of thought and so neurotic
in his ideological attitudes that
the normal Westerner must
abandon in despair the attempt
to understand him.
“In point of fact, there is very
little that is original or mys-
teriously Oriental about the
outlook of the Asian intellectual.
Much of the rationalisation in
that outlook, if not its inspira-
tion, is derived from the West
itself. A whole generation of
Asian intellectuals has been
bred on the literature put out
by the Left Book Club in the
’thirties and many of them have
been greatly influenced by what
Louis Fischer has aptly
described as ‘Laskiology.’
“The double standard of
morality, a severe one for the
democracies and a lenient one
for Communism; the accept-
ance of the Soviet Myth ; and
the failure to understand the
essential nature of Soviet
imperialism these are not
Oriental inventions. They were
all widely preached and prac-
tised in Europe in the ’thirties
and in the United States during
the Roosevelt era. Even today
there are small but vocal groups
of intellectuals in New York
and London whose mental pro-
cesses are exactly on all fours
with these.
“The real difference between
the intellectual climate in the
West and in Asia is that in Asia
a much larger and more influen-
tial section of the intelligentsia
continues to hug the confusions
and illusions that have been
discarded by the greater number
of thinking peoples on both
sides of the Atlantic. The same
factors that have changed the
climate of thought in Europe and
America may be counted on to
effect a similar change in Asia,
though the complexities of the
case may make this process a
much slower one, with attendant
dangers.”
American Relations
Turning to “the misunder-
standing existing between
India and the United States,”
Masani notes that it is not so
much a matter of getting the
countries of Europe and America
and Asia to agree on an im-
mediate course of action —“What
is essential is to make all these
countries feel that they belong
to the free world and are rooted
in the community of free men
in a manner and to a degree that
can never be possible in regard
to the countries behind the Iron
Curtain”:
“Mr. Jayaprakash Narayan,
leading Indian Socialist, has
questioned the assumption that
underlies almost all discussion of
economic planning in Asia,
namely, that it is through a rise
in the standard of life of the
people that their happiness can
primarily be secured. He feels
that such an approach is unfair
to the bulk of the peoples of the
region, who would reject the idea
of a surrender of spiritual and
moral values for the sake of
greater physical comfort.
“Economic aid is to he valued
as an act of human solidarity.
As an antidote to Communism,
it may not rank too high; and
the one-way traffic it involves
sets up adverse psychological
reactions of its own. It must not
be concluded from this that any
attempt is being made to belittle
the value of aid that comes in
from the United States and the
West. The point is that more
emphasis needs to be placed on
action on the intellectual, cultural
and spiritual plane.
“The field is wide and offers
a large area of choice both in
objectives and procedures. Such


The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
*s*
Tooth's
Lager
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY JOOIH & CO. LIMITED
KB-187-1#
layer
as you
Me #/
action has the merit of refuting,
the insinuation. that ‘the West
has nothing to offer but tech-
nology.’ There is also the
advantage that on the plane of
cultural co-operation there is
possible that mutuality or give-
and-take which is unavailable on
the economic level. On what
basis shall this meeting of minds
take place? It is obvious that
there is little that the West can
do of and by itself, but a great
deal it can do to help people
within the region to help their
own countries. Mr. Chester
Bowles [formerly U.S. Ambas-
sador in India] certainly got hold
of the right end of the stick when
he recently warned a United
States audience that when you
do something to people ‘they
resent it and throw it back in
your face’; when you do things
for them, they say: ‘Thank-you,
why don’t you do more?’, but
when you do things with people,
you establish a ‘sound founda-
tion.’
“The Foundations and the
intelligentsia of the West can
lend a big hand in providing
opportunities for presenting the
best of the philosophy, literature
and art [of Asia] to the West.
We have schools of classical
music and dance languishing for
want of support. There are
documentary films that cannot
be made for lack of funds.
Sports organisations pine for the
resources that would permit
their teams to participate in in-
ternational tournaments and
rallies apart from those organ-
ised in Iron Curtain countries,
travel-facilities to which are
always freely available
“There is no one to encourage
the translation and publication
in English of the writings of the
most eminent of those who write
in other tongues. There is need
for the establishment of courses
for the study of comparative
literature. With the fading-out
of the English language, the need
is greater than ever for the trans-
lation of the Western classics
into Asian languages.
“The Soviet Union recently
gave an award to the script-
writer and producer of India’s
‘best film of the year’ and it has
been assured of exhibition
throughout the U.S.S.R. The
United States Government can-
not, of course, force Americans
to see any foreign film it may
choose to patronise for reasons
of diplomacy, but is it not pos-
sible to have a confrontation of
Eastern and Western films,
music, dance or art through
festivals organised at both
ends?”
Education in Democracy
“Education in citizenship and
training for democracy offer yet
other fields for co-operation. The
importance of propaganda is so
well understood by the inter-
national Communist apparatus
that it is used by them with the
greatest persistence.
“In their own way, the Com-
munists show an understanding
of the truth that man does not
live by bread alone. The effort
put in by the democracies to
meet this threat is altogether
insignificant. Within the region,
what is needed is an effort at
presenting and popularising the
values of democracy, not on the
level of propaganda but that of
education.
“The Communists disseminate
their ideas through an army of
indigenous personnel in each
country. Since democracy does
not and must not function
through a fifth-column, the prob-
lem o| mobilising local convic-
tion and talent on the side of
freedom achieves great import-
ance. Commenting on this com-
plex subject on the termination
of the assignment in India of
Ambassador Chester Bowles in
April, 1953, ‘Freedom First,’ the
organ of the Indian Committee
for Cultural Freedom, had this
to say:
“ ‘The lessons that the failure
of Mr. Bowles’s mission teaches
would appear to be that those
who represent the democracies
in a peripheral country such as
India should seize the initiative
in the cold war of ideas which
is being waged in such countries
by the Soviet and Chinese
dictatorships, that while attend-
ing to the needs of the Govern-
ments the need to educate and
enlighten public opinion should
not be overlooked, and that
economic aid unaccompanied by
ideological co-operation and
approximation is an undepend-
able foundation on which to
build democratic solidarity.’
“Westerners who argue about
these matters amongst them-
selves often stress the priority of
physical strength over moral
prestige, and vice versa. This is
a false antithesis. In a part of
the world where free territory in
Tibet and Vietnam has been lost
in recent years, power has a
persuasiveness of its own. A
British organ of opinion cer-
tainly saw the problem clearly
when it stressed the need of
bringing home to people in Asia
the conviction that ‘the West is
physically powerful enough to
prevent a world Communist
victory and sufficiently well
intentioned to relieve the starving
of the distressed.’ ”
Adenauer's Moscow
Visit
London “Economist” com-
ment on “the slippery road to
Moscow”:
“Among the general public
Dr. Adenauer’s prestige has been
raised by the invitation from the
Soviet Government. But he is
setting out on a slippery slope
when he takes the Moscow-road.
He is faced with two awkward
prospects:
“If he agrees to open diplo-
matic, cultural and economic
relations with the Soviet Union
he will be accused by his politi-
cal critics of having agreed to
the continued existence of two
Germanys ; and if he holds out
against Soviet offers, and refuses
to deal with Russia’s German
satellite, he may come back
empty-handed to meet charges
that he is too tightly tied to the
Western alliance.
“It is evident that the Russians
will suggest that the Federal
Government, if it wants good
relations with the masters, must
make friends with the puppets
in East Berlin. Marshal Bul-
ganin, in his report to the
Supreme Soviet on the Geneva
conference, has just said that
reunification ‘can only be
achieved by the East and West
German States themselves.’
“The Russians have tried to
strengthen the Communists in
German eyes by indicating that,
as the result of negotiations with
the Grotewohl [East German]
Government, they may release
the remaining German prisoners-
of-war. The Chancellor had
hoped to come bade from Mos-
cow with the release-order in his
pocket. But it seems that
Marshal Bulganin intends that
there shall be no kudos for Dr.
Adenauer.”
Coexistence
London “Daily Telegraph”
definition:
“Since we are confident that
force is the only method by
which Russia can improve her
position in Europe, there are
good grounds for expecting a
period of relative calm.
“This period, however, is
quite inaccurately described as
peaceful coexistence. Coexist-
ence implies a will to exist con-
tentedly together. There is no
■ \ ;
evidence at all that the Russians
want to coexist. There is only
evidence that they have decided
that there is no present way of
improving their position and
extending their power without
running the risk of fighting a
war which they would be
unlikely to win.
“To be accurate, therefore,
the present period is more
properly described, not as co-
existence but as more-or-less
cheerful deadlock. No one in
his senses feels inclined to
throw his cap in the air, still
less his steel helmet on the
refuse-heap, because of a dead-
lock. A state of coexistence,
however, sounds seductively
cosy.
“This cosy phrase is also a
dangerous one because it sug-
gests a general condition. The
Geneva deadlock, however, is
strictly confined to Europe. In
the Far East there is no balance
of power. The fighting in
Malaya still continues. The
problem of Formosa is still
pressing. Any day fighting could
break out in Indo-China.
“It is a curious paradox that
the major threat of war today
comes from China, the only
major Power that does not have
the nuclear weapon.”
Eisenhower
Further editorial tribute to
President Eisenhower, whose
prestige at home and abroad
goes on increasing, particularly
since Sir Winston Churchill’s
retirement —this from London
“Time and Tide”:
“For many years Western
statesmen have feared that the
Soviet leaders believed their own
propaganda. The history of
almost every country is dotted
with examples of intelligent men
who believed their own lies, and
one of the major dangers to
world survival has been the pro-
bability that the men in the
Kremlin —isolated from the
world as they are—have really
believed their monstrous false-
hoods about ‘capitalist, imperia-
list warmongers.’ At Geneva
President Eisenhower tried to
break through this Curtain of
Nonsense and, in retrospect,
American diplomats seem reason-
ably confident that he suc-
ceeded. At one point the Pre-
sident began a lengthy discourse
assuring everyone that the
United States would never be a
party to an aggressiye war and
Bulganin interrupted with the
remark ‘We believe you.’
“Even if all the Russians did
not believe President Eisen-
hower, there can be no
doubt that the free world was
impressed. When he commanded
S.H.A.E.F., and again when he
commanded S.H.A.P.E., Mr.
Eisenhower was a skilful, re-
sourceful representative of the
free world as well as his own
country. When, however, he
moved to the less familiar world
of politics, he seemed less cer-
tain of himself and his effective-
ness was correspondingly
reduced.
“But for many months it
has been clear that President
Eisenhower had completed his
political apprenticeship. He is
master of his own Administra-
tion. In the arena of politics
he has re-won the right to speak
for his nation. And what a
spokesman he can be! When he
speaks of peace he obviously
personifies the hopes and fears
of the average American. As
one American commentator re-
marked, he has ‘an open coun-
tenance, openly contrived at.’
His re-emergence as a great
popular spokesman must be
counted as a tremendous asset
by the State Department.
“Meanwhile the State Depart-
ment has won for itself a certain
freedom of manoeuvre. When
Soviet leaders were emphasising
their "own ‘new look’ and dele-
gations to Moscow were grow-
ing in number, the United States
was placed at a psychological
disadvantage when its Govern-
ment was unable to admit Rus-
sian chess-players or student-
editors. Now that Western
strength and Russian weakness
have produced for the time being
a change of manners, though not
of heart, in the Russians, greater
diplomatic finesse is needed.
That finesse could not be used if
the American Government felt
itself compelled to adopt a
monolithic rigidity in small
matters as well as large.
“Fortunately the State De-
partment is fully aware that the
apparent lessening of inter-
national tension does not in-
volve any real abandonment of
the Communist desire for ex-
pansion. The superficial change
indeed creates certain dangers
that are greater for the West
than for the Communist East.
“The apparent thaw may
cause America’s allies to relax
their efforts. American opinion
may revolt at the burden of
defence-expenditure now car-
ried. And behind the Curtain —
which is still made of Iron —the
friends of freedom must natur-
ally be confused and anxious.
Hopes of liberation decline in
proportion to the amount of
goodwill between Washington
and Moscow and Peking.
“The next' months will put an
increasing strain on the skill of
the American Administration.
It is good that President Eisen-
hower enters this period with
every sign of increased con-
fidence, skill and enjoyment of
the tasks ahead.”
Various Voices
Sir Anthony Eden: “Until
Germany is united there cannot
be any real security in Europe.
Inevitably, if this problem is not
solved it will be a cause of
growing danger in Europe.”
SJ; Sfc 4*
Leading American rocket-
expert, Frederick C. Durant:
“Man will have landed on the
moon by the end of the century.
The American project to estab-
lish an artificial satellite in space
must be regarded as only a
necessary intermediate step.”
* * *
Arne Skaug, Norway’s Minister
of Trade : “Who would want to
live in New York with a big
salary and two cars when one
can live in Kristiansand and go
fishing for mackerel?”
* * *
Professor Bhabha {physicist
from Calcutta University): “I
venture to predict that a method
will be found for liberating
fusion energy in a controlled
manner within the next two
decades. When that happens the
energy problems of the world
will have been solved for ever,
for the fuel will be as plentiful
as the heavy hydrogen in the
oceans.”
* * *
Veteran American statesman
Bernard Baruch: “Unless the fear
of atomic catastrophe can be
stilled by a system of foolproof
control, there can be no basis
for a lasting peace. Behind
these American proposals [the
Baruch Plan for international
inspection and control] was the
realisation that atomic energy
was truly like a giant—powerful
enough to lift mankind to new
heights of material welfare, but
also powerful enough to pound
the world into ruins—a lifting
hand or a crushing fist.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Compulsory Retirement
There must be thousands of people the
world over who feel that compulsory
retirement is a blow to the self-respect
of any man of independent spirit who is
able and willing to go on working.
Most people in their sixties probably
feel entitled to a few years of peace and
leisure, and good luck to them, but why
debar the minority from carrying on if
they are mentally and physically fit?
Only those on whom sentence of retire-
ment has been passed can appreciate the
mental torture a fit man suffers when
told his time has come to stand aside.
Oldsters among us can remember when
most men worked till they were burned
out, and the hardier spirits even boasted
of a determination to “die with their
boots on,” as many of them did. Medical
men hadn’t then discovered how to pro-
long the average life-span to its present
limit, but when that was achieved and a
labor-surplus inevitably followed, par-
ticularly in the United States, that country
took the lead in consigning the 60-65 age-
group to the industrial scrap-heap' hail-
ing it as a new deal for the working-man
who had spent the greater part of his life
in factory and workshop.
The idea caught on and compulsory*
retirement became part of the social and
industrial code of a number of countries.
Theoretically it was an admirable trend,
but in practice it failed to allow for the
mental attitude of many men towards
work. The majority may regard it as
a necessary evil, but an appreciable num-
ber don’t, and these resent society’s
attempt to deprive them of it simply
because they have reached a certain age.
World War II brought a modification
of industry’s attitude towards older
people, and the call for them to man fac-
tories, workshops and farms was en-
thusiastically answered, with a consequent
increase in production. This trend con-
tinued into post-war years, when it began
to dawn on the national conscience that
the oldsters had something to contribute
to the workaday world, after all, and that
compulsory retirement was not an un-
mixed blessing.
Some years ago a royal commission
in England reported that more than half
those reaching the age of 65 could be
“You’ll have to service this fate more gently, men —it cost
thirty-thousand quid."
profitably employed for at least another
five years, with 25 per cent, able to give
satisfactory service for another 10 years.
In America the Geriatrics Society,
backed by private enterprise, also con-
cerned itself with the employability of
the older age-group. Similar research
was begun in Australia, too, a few years
ago, and generally there has been a rea-
lisation that, apart from the skill, experi-
ence and judgment they bring to their
jobs, older people stay put longer than
young people, thus reducing costly labor
turnover.
So far, however, I haven’t heard any-
one argue the case against compulsory
employment from the only point of view
which really matters: the preservation
of a man’s right to work if he wants to,
regardless of age. — Peter Simple
(N.S.W.).
Fettlers and Shearers
An average Queensland shearer doing
150 a day at around £7 14s. a 100 almost
covers a navvy’s annual leave, sick- and
holiday-pay in a week (“T.M.,” B.
3/ 8 / ’55). He works two-hour shifts,
with smoke-ohs provided ; he is under
shelter, comfortably housed and fed like
a king. Generally he owns his own motor-
car, and, in the slack, can seek other
work or just take it easy.
Most fettlers would not be against
sharing in some of those benefits. My
information, open to correction, is that
a fettler can study to become a mainten-
ance-inspector, but vacancies are rare.
During the war young men were trans-
ferred to leam shunting and possibly
became guards, but that practice has
been discontinued. A fettler can resign
and join the platform-staff as a porter
and work up, but that is most unusual.
Agreed that, given equal conditions,
shearing may be tougher than fettling,
but wages and conditions were never
better for shearers than they are today.
—Quo Vadis (Q.).
Home and Abroad
The return of a a group of Federal poli-
ticians from New Guinea, with copious
notes and suggestions for the uplift of
the natives, synchronised discordantly
with a news-item from the North Coast
of N. S. Wales regarding conditions pre-
vailing at the Burnt Bridge abo. settle-
ment near Kempsey.
Apparently the local whites have begun
to stir in earnest over the water-supply
for the 600 abos existing there, and, with
the aid of a whole £1250 from the Abo-
riginal Protection Board, have decided
to install running-water for the settlement.
The parsimony of State and Federal
Governments in dealing with the problem
of our native people is in marked contrast
to the conspicuous altruism shown by
Canberra towards the peoples of South-
East Asia. The treatment meted-out to
our near-town abos is obviously of little
moment to politicians here, no doubt,
because the amelioration of their lot
makes no headlines, while the news of a
gift of a few millions to overseas peoples
is flashed across the world from London
to Lake Success and Moscow.
In any country the degree of civilisa-
tion achieved is measured not by its
attainments in art, science or industry,
but by its treatment of the underdog
within the ambit of its authority.—F. A.
(N.S.W.).
Criminals and Psychology
With monotonous regularity there is
public outcry over the leniency which, it
is alleged, has been shown to some crimi-
nal. The cases which provoke this are
often those involving a psychopathic
element, the criminals needing rehabilita-
tive treatment rather than deterrent
punishment. The outcry is often due to
a small, irresponsible section of the press
playing on the emotions of a public
which is ignorant of much of the evidence
before the judge.
It is, however, too easy to fly from one
extreme to the other. Already there are
suggestions that we should follow the
pattern of some European countries and
form a panel of psychologists and
psychiatrists to sentence criminals.
Obviously some criminals are suffer-
ing from a mental disease, and reports
by experts could be very important in
deciding the punishment. But the Euro-
pean practice can only be justified if you
make the basic assumption 7 that the only
purpose of punishment is to “cure” the
“Blast! We haven't got a stamp."
offender. Few would agree. The judge
must also consider the injustice which
could result from the imposition of arbi-
trary and widely differing methods of
treatment. More important, he must
have regard to the deterrence of other
possible offenders.
While a psychologist can provide im-
portant evidence upon which a decision
can be made, the making of that decision
is a specialist function for which only the
judge is adequately trained. — Mac D.
(Vic.).
Cargo-ships, Please
Why does The Bulletin use that
ghastly word “freighter” when speaking
of British Merchant Service cargo-ships?
You are a British journal, written in
English for British people to read, and
you are as pro-British as they make them,
so please be properly British when you
speak about our greatest heritage—the
sea and the ships on it.
That contemptible word “freighter,”
imported from where all sorts of similar
cheap and catchy words and phrases
originate, has the same effect on a British
seaman as a red rag has to a bull. So
please drop it.
If you want to be really frightfully
English, you may refer to British cargo-
vessels as “cargo-liners” (but not
“boats”). If you stick to the good old
English “cargo-ship” you won’t be far
wrong.—J. H. Bayley, Master, s.s.
Pemba, Calcutta.
Hulks
Along the Parramatta River (N.S.W.)
lie the rusted iron skeletons of old L.S.T.s,
punts and whatnot. Three of the worst
examples adorn Kissing Point, opposite
the lovely point on which stand the Walker
convalescent-homes and Yaralla military
hospital. Drummoyne is similarly dis-
figured, and there are more wrecks further
up the river.
Eyesores they are, every one; and all
should be towed away and sunk outside
the Heads. It surely wouldn’t cost very
much to do this. There have been com-
plaints galore from residents and those
who wish to preserve waterfront beauty,
but none has been removed.
It’s probably impossible to learn who
left them beached in the various spots,
but there must be some organisation
which can be held responsible for failing
to dispose of them. — Kaymara (N.S.W.).
Councils and Hotels
Are the excursions into the hotel-
business by local councils an attempt to
cover-up their shortcomings in other
directions?
Fortunately, the ratepayer’s money
cannot be used to finance these ventures,
but neither can the hoped-for profits be
used to maintain roads and footpaths.
The profits (if any) will be devoted to
rest-rooms and recreation-centres, which
most ratepayers can find in plenty else-
where.
These ventures into Socialising the
drink-traffic may not touch council rates,
but they will absorb councillors’ time
and energy, while the legitimate council
business will be in danger of neglect.
Already aldermen are showing much
more enthusiasm for their newly-
adopted child than for their legitimate
civic family.
Another serious aspect, particularly to
the house-hungry public, is that, while
finance for homes is desperately hard to
find, hundreds of thousands are appar-
ently available for these unnecessary
hotel projects. Most people would prefer
homes to club-rooms and play-centres.—
G. A. Baily (N.S.W.).
The Corner-shop
This mid-western N. S. Wales town has
just seen its last large locally-owned store
absorbed by a chain-store organisation.
Only a few small one-man “corner-shops”
remain to represent private enterprise in
its purest form.
A chain-stdre, through bulk-buying,
should be able to shade prices on some
lines, though no startling evidence of this
is yet apparent. What is evident already
is that all the chain-stores (five of them
here) tend to stock the same types of
merchandising—generally good, but not
quite the best. Purchasing is largely by
remote-control, with no intimate know-
ledge of the locality’s peculiar needs.
You really need to look at the name on
the front to recognise one chain-store
from another.
Managers of the branches come and
go: “foreigners,” without roots in the
countryside, they cannot give the service
we had from the man who inherited the
business from his father; who went to
school with most of his customers; who
knew, and stocked, the special brand of
tea, of shirts, of machinery-oil, fancied
by this one or that; who, in short, ran
the store for service to the individual,
not merely to the public in general.
The corner-shops are still owner-run,
and their strength is in their usefulness
to everyone. They are dotted about resi-
dential quarters, handy for last-minute
purchases, and are casual about the obser-
vance of shopping-hour restrictions.
They are one outpost of individualism in
an increasingly standardised community.
Good luck to them!
They might well be exempted from
legal restrictions on trading-hours to give
them some advantage over their outsize
competitors. That would also return to
the public some of its right to shop at its
convenience, instead of when the union
dictates.
There is a tendency already —in this
town, at any rate —for business to flow
from the chain-stores to the comer-shops,
because of the more personal service they
offer. One or two already show signs of
graduating into the big-store class. They
will then be in danger, because, as soon
as their competition becomes important,
the chain-stores will be out to absorb
or eliminate them. Because they are
mostly undercapitalised, working finan-
cially from hand to mouth, and without
fighting reserves, they would fall easy
victims. — Thinkit (N.S.W.).


QUALITY & SERVICE
Backed by over 100 YEARS
of slow?combustion experience
. i
wm
I
>
V v
9
with your Famous
WELLSTOOD
HEAT STORAGE
COOKER
and HOT WATER service
For over a century, the manufacturers of the famous Wellstood Cooker
have been improving their products to give you a cooker of which you
may be justly proud. The Wellstood, a modern, compact cooker for
the average household is a product of those years of tradition. It has
two spacious ovens, one fitted with a thermometer, for roasting and
baking, the other for slow cooking and plate warming; also a built-in boiler
to supply ample hot water for all your household needs. It is of gleaming
vitreous enamel finish, easy to keep clean, and burns any fuel. A Wellstood
Cooker is an asset in any kitchen.
Write today for FREE literature.
DISTRIBUTORS:
T. S. NETTLEFOLD & SONS
PTY.
LTD.
189 KING ST.
MELBOURNE
619 ELIZABETH ST.
REDFERN
SYDNEY
288 FLINDERS ST.
ADELAIDE
1032 HAY ST.
PERTH
Of vital interest to all /
Australian land men! /
AUGUST
is the seeond issue of
“TJip JfpvUnp
Official monthly
organ of the newly
formed Keyline
Foundation.
2'6
Per Copy
at all
Newsagents &
Bookstalls
Mr. P. A. Yeomans’ book, “The Keyline
Plan,” has won high praise from leading
agriculturalists both here and overseas and
all sections of the Australian press.
00
comes "Keyline" a
monthly journal
devoted to the interests and
furtherance of the Keyline
Plan in Australia.
The August issue of “KEYEINE” in-
cludes : “FEOOD CONTBOE” can
Keyline control the Hunter floods ?
“FEOCK TESTING” how to double
the rate of improvement of Merino
Sheep. “PAYMENT FOB MIEK”
two views by experts on the basis
of payment for milk. “THE WOOE
MAEKET” what must be done to
meet the threat of synthetics. Don’t
miss these and other features of vital
interest to men on the land.
.. e »> provides
' ,Key bT
means a dva» c ®*
queries to the
uaents re t^e Rey-
application ® y be
line p * n passed «n
answered or l ' Bte d
to >“ d . «-*
SUBSCRIPTION ORDER
1 YEAR, 30/- 2 YEARS, 60/- 3 YEARS, 90/-
To Newsagent
OR TO KEYLINE PUBLISHING PTY. LTD.,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
P lease enter my subscription for "Key/ine"
commencing with
issue foi years.
NAME (Block Letters)
ADDRESS
(STATE)
I enclose cheque/money order/postal note for.
Price-fixing
Do people like “O’Johnno” (B.
10/8/’55) realise that the price paid for
labor, skilled or otherwise, is fixed and
bound to fractions of a penny by as com-
plex machinery as was ever devised? If
it is right for an employee to be entitled
to a fixed minimum price for his services,
how, then, is it wrong for a retailer,
working for himself, to be entitled to his
fair profit?
Prices fixed by the Government allow
for the fixed wages included in costs of
productfon, for manufacturers’ profit on
capital invested, and, with one exception,
for all the other factors that go to make-
up the cost of the finished article. The
one exception is that no representation
is ever heard from retailers for a main-
tenance of their profit-margins.
In 1938, I, as a retailer, bought bread
for and sold it for s|d. Today, I
buy bread for 12|d. and sell it for
Submissions by master-bakers show that
the cost of delivering bread to house-
holders exceeds Id. per loaf because of
the wages of breadcarters fixed by
awards, yet the retailer (with no union or
industrial award) does the same work for
only Id., and supplies, under penalty of
prosecution, wrapping-paper which costs
more per loaf than the basket and canvas-
cover of the breadcarter cost to use.
If consumers (mainly on award-wages)
have the right to shop-around for cut-
price commodities, will “O’Johnno” give
that same right to producers to shop-
around for labor at cut prices?—■
Jackstaff (N.S.W.).
Typist’s Budget
The lass whose budget I quoted (B.
11/5/’55), and who was criticised by
“K. McK.” and “N. 0.” (B. 1/6/’55),
replies:
“Of course I make my own bed, clean
my room, do my laundry and also do my
share of cleaning the rest of the flat —
bathroom, kitchenette and lounge. I
tried board (lowest price, £5, without
lunches), but the food was so awful that
the doctor told me to go somewhere
where I could cook for myself. Before
that I had tried bed-and-breakfast (tea-
and-toast) at £2 10s. a week, sharing a
room, but meals out were so expensive
I realised I couldn’t afford that way of
living.
“I have two meals a week in town, as
I go to night-classes twice weekly to
improve my shorthand and bookkeeping.
I also go to dressmaking and millinery
classes twice a week, but am able to
rush home, snatch a quick meal and get
back to town before they start. I take
my lunch three days weekly, but meet
my two girl-friends on the other two
days, as they live so far out of town and
are so busy with their boy-friends at
weekends that this is the only chance we
have to see each other.
“ ‘N.O.’ seems to think I get my hair
cut every week. I don’t. I budget for
it at 3s. 3d. a week because I have to get
it cut every fortnight at a cost of 6s. 6d.
—many hairdressers charge more; mine
raised his prices some time ago.
“I make all my summer clothes and
buy most of the material at sale-times.
As I have no machine, I hire one to do
my dressmaking. I don’t try to follow
the latest fashions, but dress neatly for
my job.”
The lass showed me her itemised budget
for clothes. This covered necessities only
for £lOl and extras at £ll 12s. 6d. —
dance-frock and stole, £6 ; sun-suit, 155.;
tennis-frock, £1 (all home-made);
bathing-suit, £1 17s. 6d. (two seasons,
cost £3 155.); beach-shoes and beach-hat
(sale-prices), £1 each. Every young girl
must have active recreation and some
fun, and surely those amounts are not
unduly extravagant.
The girl is a sensible type, budgeting
wisely (e.g.) her winter suit and topcoat
are each budgeted for for three seasons),
but when wardrobe necessities for a girl
in an office job are set down item by
item it is staggering to see how quickly
they rise above the £ 100-mark.
For my own part, in five years of
battling with accommodation problems
sub-standard house or locality, or so far
“S thal fa,eS addSd C ° nSideraWy
Five years ago I paid £3 for bed-and-
breakfast (attic-room). Prices tpday
(often for tea-and-toast) start at £2 10s.
(usually to share), but often range from
£3 10s. upwards—£4 4s. to £5 ss. fre-
quently being asked. And that’s not
for luxury accommodation by any
manner of means.
To that figure must be added the cost
of lunches and evening meals (costly
even at cafes) and of fruit and milk.
Business board (14 meals a week) is
considered cheap at £4 10s. a week and,
in my experience, is rarely obtainable at
that price. Over £1 a week also has
to be added to that figure for two week-
end meals and for fruit and milk.
With whole families living in one room
and desperate enough to pay from £5O
upwards to secure the accommodation
in the first place, or to buy furniture at
three-figure amounts to get something a
little larger, the accommodation-seeker
knows just how tough the situation is.
Girls, too, have a harder time than men,
as men are often preferred on several
counts —they can pay more rent, because
they get bigger pay-envelopes; they can
afford to send their laundry out instead
of doing it at home; and they are out
so much that they are not “underfoot”
like women. — Una Auld (N.S.W.).
“Produce More: Save More”
And what’s so wrong with Australians
“spending their savings on a hitherto-
undreamed-of world tour” (B. 10/8/’55)?
Why should only the very rich be per-
mitted the luxury of a world pleasure-
cruise in the evening of their life? Why
not the average man, too?
A married couple who have been in-
dustrious and thrifty all their lives, and
have raised a family of good citizens —
such a couple surely have a right to spend
on a “fling” whatever they’ve managed
to put away. It’s an outdated, narrow
view that they should scrimp and save all
their lives merely to keep body and soul
together in their declining years.
Anyway, who actually loses by this
new outlook? Certainly not the shipping
companies, which must make increased
profits by a greater number of travellers.
Not the employees of those companies,
either. And, if the money has gone in a
different manner, on a car or other means
of pleasure or indulgence—well, some-
one’s getting it. The money’s going
lound and prosperity is thus maintained.
Granted that we all must save, both
for individual and national benefit. To
get the worth-while things of life (a
home, furniture, books, a car perhaps),
you’ve got to save. But, despite all this,
I fervently oppose those who counsel
“thrift, thrift, and yet more thrift.”
If everyone did become so thrifty,
where would we get? No one would
buy anything not really necessary—most
industrial wheels would slow down to a
halt and mass-unemployment would
follow. — Keima (Q.).


See M. S. McLeod Ltd.’s “Farmers’ Boy” display at
Adelaide Royal Show.
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Plough attached.
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series 11, Mark XII, 1J h.p. Villiers
Engine. Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 2
Hoeing blades, lOin, Tool-bar, 3 universal standards,
and power take-off.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
T
he Mobile Power Unit
for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe
Paspalum
guillotined l
Rotary Hoe
DISTRIBUTORS
Sawbench
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 40 Young St., Sydney. BUISII.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd.. 90 William St., Melbourne. MU 8501.
Sth. Aus.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176/180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. PA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND Ltd., 115 York St., Launceston.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Lawnmowef
Cutter Bar
Other attachments include: —
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR for inflating
tyres, Spray-painting, etc. FURROWER.
TRAILER, DUSTER, DISC HARROWS,
GENERATOR for hole-boring, lighting, etc.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State
Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS’
BOY" and ACCESSORIES.
Name
Address
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
-BEEF-CATTLE ON FARMS
is a general opinion
-*• among farmers—at least, in
my N.S.W. district—that the
only place for beef-cattle is the
big station, preferably in
Queensland or the Northern
Territory. That beef-cattle can
be a valuable sideline, or even
the main line, on the moderate-
sized farm never enters their
heads.
Yet the fact is that any place
where fat-lambs can be pro-
duced is suitable for vealers ;
and on two types of farms—the
sheep-only one which is show-
ing signs of deterioration, and
the wheatfarm—they are highly
desirable for several reasons.
Now that overproduction of
wheat has been admitted to be
a serious problem by virtually
every authority connected with
the industry, it is time for
wheatgrowers to look around
for alternate lines of production,
Most of them are likely to
think of sheep, and sheep only,
which would be unfortunate:
most wheatfarms already have a
sufficient number of sheep, and
no considerable replacement of
lost income can be achieved in
that direction without the
dangers consequent on over-
stocking ; more important,
sheep are not the best type of
stock to run while a farm is
being converted to pasture.
They eat the new growth
down too closely and they are
too selective in their feeding;
they are likely tp ruin a new
pasture before it becomes
securely established.
Another related point in
favor of cattle—and this applies
to the sheep-only farm as well
as to the wheatfarm —is that
where there is a peril of Soil-
erosion one of the soundest
ways of checking the tendency
is by running a good proportion
of cattle.
Cattle do not, generally
speaking, break-up the surface-
soil and make erosion-inducing
tracks to the same extent as
sheep do. Moreover, cattle, in
grazing, leave a valuable pro-
tective cover of herbage on the
soil, whereas sheep will eat a
paddock out nearly as closely as
rabbits. Unfortunately, few
farmers are likely to change to
cattle simply as a means to
land-preservation, so we must
look at the commercial side of
the proposition,
It is beginning to be generally
agreed by people who are
interested in the matter that a
fixed ratio of cattle to sheep
should be run to ensure the
most effective and productive
results from the average
property.
For example, a farm which
might run 1000 sheep would be
a much more efficient unit if it
were running 700 sheep and 40
cattle. The N.S.W. Soil Con-
servation Department is most
emphatic about this, and the
experience of a number of my
acquaintances tends to confirm
it.
While the rate of stocking in
the latter case would actually be
heavier (allowing 10 sheep to
one cow), the fact that cattle
thrive on coarser growth which
sheep will bypass means that
the nourishment is adequate for
both flocks, and those acute
shortages in a cold winter or dry
autumn are largely avoided,
In fact, some men claim that
they can run a considerable
number of cattle without reduc-
ing their sheep-numbers; but
this is just another example of
the exploitive instinct which
comps so readily and frequently
to the surface in the Australian
farmer.
One very gratifying feature of
cattle-raising, which can hardly
be appreciated by a man
accustomed to sheep only, is
the rapidity with which a herd
can be built-up from a small
original number of cows. Of
course, they have a much longer
gestation-period than sheep, but
they still have their one calf per
year, and the regular percentage
of births is very much higher
than in sheep. With a little
care and intelligent supervision
it can be close to 100 per cent,
all the time.
But the main factor in their
multiplication is the long
breeding-life of a cow. In a
flock of- ewes, run for breeding
and wool-production, where it
is uneconomic to keep them
after the age of five years, the
drop per ewe in its lifetime
would not usually average more
than three lambs. Cows, on the
other hand, can reasonably be
expected to have 10 calves, and,
when well-fed and carefully
looked after, up to 15.
Just how many direct
descendants one cow could have
in her lifetime would be a job
for a mathematician, but a five-
minute attempt on my part has
convinced me that it would be
many hundreds.
The experiences of men who
have been “farming cattle”
confirms that this works-out in
practice: in fact, it is a common
saying among them that “you
can’t afford to take your eyes
off them, or you’ll be over-
stocked.”
Types of Cattle
As for the type of cattle to
go in for, at the present moment
there is no doubt that the
vealer is the best proposition.
Authoritative advice says to use
purebreds—Aberdeen Angus in
good districts where a regular
pasture - growth is assured ;
Herefords or Beef Shorthorns
where the vealer , may have to
be kept over a longer period to
be topped-off.
There is, however, a stiff
financial hurdle to be negotiated.
Thirty cows at 70gns. each and
a bull at 80gns. or 90gns. for a
minimum herd means a lot of
money. For those who have it,
the pure herd is undoubtedly the
right idea, but the man who
doesn’t have it need not give up
the idea of raising vealers.
Anyone who has half-a-dozen
decent dual-purpose cows like
the Ulawarra or Red Poll, as
many farmers have for the home
milk-supply, can produce
splendid vealers by using' a
Black Poll or Hereford bull.
Both these sires are so strongly
prepotent that the progeny will
not only look like Black Poll
or Hereford but will grow and
weigh almost as well.
In fact, some cattlemen claim
that the advantage of the better
milk-supply results in a better
dealer than from a pure beef-
breed mother.
This advantage, of course, is
lost once the vealer-stage is
passed. It is important, there-
fore, in this case, to be sure you
can fatten and sell your vealer,
unless you aim to keep the
heifer-calves for vealer-breeding.
The next cross, being a three-
quarter beef, is likely to be a
very nice animal.
A herd of part-beef cows can
soon be built-up in this way,
though it wouldn’t do to boast
about its merits at a cattle-
show. What is important,
however, is that it works. The
butcher will give from £25 to
£3O for vealers from such cows,
and that is a very good return
for a comparatively small
outlay.
Though the income from
vealers may not be spectacular,
it is substantial, and wonderfully
handy for filling in that awful
vacuum between one wool-sale
and the next, 12 months later. A
bit more forethought will be
necessary in planning the move-
ments of stock ffom paddock to
paddock.
Cattle first, then sheep, is a
sound plan, though it also works
in reverse; but, if possible, wait
for a rain before putting the
cattle in. Never sheep and
cattle together. Each seems to
“Drink that up and Well have an udder."
regard the other as a defiler of
good pasture ; and each is likely
to break through fences to get
away from the other.
Feeding and Management
There is, unfortunately, a
strong prejudice against cattle
among many sheep- and wheat-
men. Cattle, they claim, break
fences, trample - down crops,
overturn haystacks; their sale-
value falls calamitously in a
drought; they need a team of
cowboys to handle them and a
race of giants to mark and
brand them.
The answer to all of these
complaints is adequate feeding
and intelligent and well-planned
management. Well-fed cattle
will not break through a fence
which is adequate for sheep.
Should the occasional adven-
turous one that takes a perverse
pleasure in pushing his way
through a fence turn-up in your
drop, the thing to do is get rid
of him before he teaches the
others bad habits. The same
applies to the nervous animal —
get rid of it, too, before it sets
a tendency to panic in your
herd. These are simple
precautions.
That the value of cattle falls
sharply in time of drought is
simply evidence that many
cattle-owners are not prepared
to make adequate provision for
feeding. Cattle are the easiest
and most satisfactory animals
to hand-feed. A stack of hay
is all that is needed, their daily
or weekly ration thrown among
the herd from a motor-lorry.
This will keep them contented
and make them tame and easy
to handle.
In a drought, when fats are
scarce, excellent prices can be
obtained for stock kept in good
condition by supplementary
feeding; and if your improvi-
dent neighbor is selling his herd
cheaply because he is over-
stocked or has no hay, that is
the time to buy a cheap line of
cattle.
Marking young steers need
present no difficulty. The easiest
method is to inspect the herd
daily during the calving-season
and attend to each calf in the
first few days after it is 'dropped,
before it has learned to run
faster than you can. For
emasculation, the same rubber-
ring that is used for lambs is a
perfect method, and a snip out
of the ear with the sheep-
earmark does away with any
need for hot-iron branding.
One rather surprising and
highly desirable result of farm-
ing cattle is the effect it has on
what might be called the
farmer’s agricultural morality.
Men who are quite callous about
the condition of their sheep
(after all, you never notice the
ribs showing under a thick coat
of wool, and when they are
exposed at shearing - time
farmers console themselves
with, “Ah, well, they’ll soon
pick-up now they’ve got their
wool off”) become quite per-
turbed when their beefs begin
to lose their eye-pleasing
rotundity.
“Peace and Plenty”
They get into the habit of
conserving fodder-crops and
pastures ; they even reduce their
sheep-numbers drastically in
order to always keep their cattle
in good condition. They become
good husbandmen, which is what
all farmers should be.
For the rest, there is a great
esthetic satisfaction in owning
a • herd of good beef-cattle.
Whether they are shiny black or
vivid red with snowy-white
heads, they look lovely grazing
in a green pasture or resting
under a huge gum beside their
water-supply. They give a place
a look of peace and plenty. .
There is a friendliness about
them that you never get from
sheep; they will come round
you to eat oats out of a dish
in your hand, and let you
stroke their curly polls; to
see them staring with uncon-
cerned curiosity, chewing tune-
lessly and interminably at their
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(21/8/’55)
The cyclonic activity and heavy rains which have
continued to sweep the southern part of the continent
have been ample substantiation of the sunspot effects,
although these effects have not been as widespread as
originally anticipated.
Patchy rains should occur in N.S.W. during Sep-
tember; reasonably good Aain, however, should fall on the
coast from Newcastle southward, and Sydney should
receive good rains. The main September rains should
commence at the beginning of the month and extend at
regular intervals until about September 10.
Conditions should be poor in Queensland during Sep-
tember, but general rains are indicated in Victoria and
South Australia.
It should be a poor month in W.A., with light to
moderate rain, below normal, in the agricultural areas
and light thunderstorm-rain on the goldfields.
LENNOX WALKER.


A MODERN
SANITARY
SYSTEM
For all unsewered areas
:■ ft
mi
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Even if you live in an unsewered area where'there is no water supply,
you can still enjoy modern sanitation..
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. No more
unpleasant emptying! Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained
sanitary system that chemically transforms sewerage into a sterile
solution. This passes automatically to an underground sump and is
absorbed into the soil.
GUARANTEED. Strongly constructed with all-over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install—write now for free illus-
trated pamphlet. Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
— DISTRIBUTORS' -
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William Street, Adelaide.
NEW IMPROVED
SHEEP BRANDING FLUID
S SI - RO - MARK
4
U
'j
r
i
Manufactured by the major wool processing company in Australia.
The company that knows from years of experience what can and
what cannot be removed from shorn wool.
Exclusive use of SEEO~MA.EK enhances the
value of your clip because although durable, it is
readily scourable
HENRY B. SMITH LIMITED
AT THE GATEWAY TO MELBOURNE
559-565 SPENCER STREET. Tel. FJ 1608
If you Kaye any difficulty in obtaining supplies, mail this coupon to
HENRY B. SMITH LIMITED
Box 4506 G.P.0., Melbourne
Please Dispatch to —
NAME
ADDRESS
Number of Tins 1 Gal..
i Gal.
Red
Red
Green.
Green
Blue @ 25/-
Blue @ 13/4
cud, is better for your nerves
than a rest-cure in a sanatorium.
The trouble is that you are
likely to become so fond of them
that it is intolerable to think
of selling them to people to
whom they are only so many
pounds of meat.
E. O. Schlunke.
"Poultry for Profit"
“Nangabrook” (B. 17/8/’55)
quotes the Bureau of Agricul-
tural Science as saying that the
poultry-industry in Australia is
in a bad way, and he then goes
on to show how greater effici-
ency can be achieved by the
individual farmer and how
greater production can be
secured.
The fact is that the industry as
a whole is too efficient, and that
production must be cut.
About half our local eggs
must be exported as surplus, and
our main customer, the U.K., is
now almost self-sufficient in egg-
production.
Some will say, “Reduce the
price of eggs and sell them on
the local market.” I have kept
poultry for 25 years, and by the
bureau’s figures would be above-
average as far as production per
hen is concerned: on last year’s
figures my profit per dozen
comes to Is. 3d. That does not
leave much margin for reduc-
tion. Certainly, I sold 15,000
dozen from- 1000 hens, but I
don’t think a price-reduction of,
say, Is. per dozen would sell
twice as many eggs.
Others will say, “Lower pro-
duction will mean dearer eggs to
the local public.” This is not a
fact, as the local public, in effect,
subsidises the give-away prices
overseas.
No one can say: “You can-
not be a poultryfarmer, because
your production is an embarrass-
ment to the industry.” The law
of supply and demand is always
in force, however, and anyone
thinking of increasing produc-
tion at the moment should pause
and not run into debt in the
process.
The only way production
could be halved would be for
the Federal Government to
instruct the Wheat Board to
ration wheat for stock-food at
half the present level. We were
cut by a third for part of the
war years. This plan would
entail co-operation by the State
Governments in the case of the
rationing of mill-offals, meat-
meals and the like. Perhaps the
State Marketing Bureau could
institute a “national poultry
ration” by pooling all local
supplies of mash requirements.
My private opinion is that the
phrase “There’s a general lack
of efficiency in the industry” will
be all that registers on the
political mind.
F. B. Knox.
Tinaroo Dam
“Nedrium”: Latest estimate
for year of completion of the
Tinaroo dam (near Atherton,
N.Q.) is 1959—making it a
seven-year job. Its 320,000 acre-
feet will be used to extend
tobacco-farms and grow cotton
in the Mareeba - Dimbulah
irrigation-area.
Most official visitors to the Far
North see the impressive works
at Tinaroo, where a mighty con-
crete wall is being flung across
the Barron River. When the wall
is finished and the water fills up
an extensive ponded area will be
formed, going seven miles south
to Yungaburra.
The dam is to serve 78,000
farm-acres on which 165,000
acre-feet of water will be
lavished. Over 1120 tobacco-
farms are to come within the
scheme —and tobacco looks like
staying a boom crop.
No Ploughs?
“Buck”: In recent years heavy
scarifiers and rippers have
replaced ploughs on some Aus-
tralian properties. In special
circumstances this ploughless
farming has the following
advantages:
Hard pans of clay in the sub-
soil are broken-up. Thus the
subsoil can be cultivated without
bringing it to the surface.
It is more economical to
prepare a seed-bed with a scari-
fier than with a plough.
“Trash” left on the surface
protects the soil from wind- and
water-erosion. This surface-
mulch of straw and other litter
insulates the soil and reduces
evaporation.
Air and moisture can pene-
trate better into the subsoil.
Organic-matter tends to be
mixed- through the surface-
layers instead of being buried,
as happens with the mouldboard.
L. J. Harmsworth points out
these advantages of the scarifier
in “The Potato Growers’
Digest.” However, he adds
that many more experiments
must be made before the posi-
tion is clarified fully, and it
would be unwise to throw away
our ploughs just yet.
Wheat from the Sky
“Huck”: Results of the recent
broadcasting of wheat and
super, by aeroplane on 120 acres
near Horsham (Vic.) will be
watched with great interest.
While this seems to be an excel-
lent way of seeding areas which
are too wet to carry a combine
and tractor, it remains question-
able whether the correct depth
of sowing will be achieved.
Sowing of pelleted seed and
super, has been successful in the
U.S.A., but the idea of spreading
grain and super, separately does
not seem to be such a good idea.
Unless the ground is loose —
and it is almost impossible to
cultivate paddocks which cannot
be sown by normal means —it
appears that the aerial sowing
could do little more than provide
a lot of free feed for the local
birds.
However, it may be possible
to cover the seed several days
after broadcasting it, with a
light tractor and harrows or by
the unorthodox method of
driving a mob of sheep around
the paddock; provided, of
course, the ground is not too
boggy and the seed has not
germinated so far that such
methods would injure it.
The best we can do is to hope
the experiment is successful, and
to work out ways of overcoming
any “growing pains” which
might result.
Mallee Pasture
“Nypo”: Striking evidence of
the great increase in the sowing
of pastures in the Victorian
Mallee during the last two years
is given in the Soil Conserva-
tion Authority’s report of the
1955 Hanslow Cup competition
for the best demonstration of
erosion-control.
In 1953 the acreage of
improved pasture on the 122,200
acres in the contest totalled 9413
—about one in a little over 12.
By March, 1955, the improved
area had increased to 66,950
acres on the 160,000 entered —
one in less than three.
At the same time, the stocking-
rate has remained at a sheep-
unit to about four acres —
evidence that wise grazing
methods have gone hand-in-hand
with improved pasture.
Biggest increase has been with
Wimmera-rye-grass; area has
risen from 3600 acres in 1953
to 30,000 on the slightly larger
area entered in this year’s com-
petition.
Close behind is barrel-medic
—4OOO acres to 30,000. Lucerne
has jumped from 578 acres to
3600; evening-primrose, 1225
to 3100, and perennial veldt-
grass, 10 to 250.
While these figures show the
trend, they are not typical for
the whole of the Mallee —they
represent work by some of the
best and most progressive
farmers in the region.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision —in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, dassers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


Australasian record of 1.59 f. In
poor weather he put the mile
behind in 2.2 f his Adelaide
record being 2.5. Only a few
weeks earlier he had run his
2.2 at Harold Park.
Following on the style of New
Zealand, South Australia decided
to have a ruling body which did
not also race, and so the S.A.
Trotting League came into being.
As controller of the trot-
ting interests, the League has
been very successful.
Next in the overall picture we
come to Victora. Questioned on
the matter, an authoritative Vic-
torian veteran put the date of
the first meeting in his State at
“about 60 years ago.” But
according to a book, Sporting
Celebrities, published in 1877,
meetings of a sort had been con-
ducted there earlier. A Mr. Hay-
don, then secretary of the Vic-
torian Trotting Club, is paid
tribute in the publication for his
work in connection with the
Elsternwick Park meetings.
Another publication, Sporting
Reminiscences, written by Hay-
don himself, records the story
of the Elsternwick meetings.
It appears that the trotting-
club was promised a lease of the
ground provided they put the
ground (a swamp) into good
order. The £lO,OOO spent by the
club in doing this might as
well have been thrown into the
original swamp for all the good
it did for the sport. Potent
behind-the-scenes work put an
end to trotting.
Of the early racing that did
take place at the Elsternwick
course, 'trotting races were
decided on the same programme
as the gallops. Trotting’s first
Sires’ Produce Stakes in Aus-
tralia was the feature of an
Elsternwick meeting in 1885. The
winner received £lOO, second
£34, third £l6. From the owners
of the three acceptors £5 was
claimed for the kitty, while the
owners of the sires were set back
£25 each. With one of the
entrants, Garfield, distancing his
opponents, the event wasn’t so
hot as a spectacle.
At Moonee Valley on January
26, 1896, an unhoppled pacer
goes down on record as having
defeated a leading cyclist in
mile-heats. The cyclist was A.
W. Harris-; the times for the
heats 2.26| and 2.39! I the
horse’s name—Mystery!
Knockbacks suffered by trot-
ting in Victoria pushed and held
the sport down for many years.
The Richmond course was the
only one to keep going—it has
now long been lost in a maze
of suburban hoities. A shift from
Richmond to Ascot came in the
depression and so was not as
successful as it might otherwise
have been. Then came the war—
and a ten-year occupation of
the ground by the Army.*
It was not till 1946 that
enthusiasts were rewarded by
the introduction of the Trotting
Races Act, which allowed for
night meetings with betting. The
lights which went on at the Mel-
bourne Showground in 1947
were a step further. A non-
proprietary body, the Trotting
Control Board of Victoria, was
placed at the helm and started
off with a £lOO,OOO loan from
the Royal Agricultural Society
with which to make things ship-
shape. A track with a six-inch
bed of volcanic sand, six-inches
of ashes and four of ground-
shell, was promptly laid.
With a crowd-average of
about 20,000, and a record crowd
of 36,055, the Melbourne Show-
ground meetings are well in the
top sport bracket. Asked for his
opinion of the sport’s future in
his State, the secretary replied:
“When one compares the figures
showing the rapid growth of the
sport since its inception in 1947
until now, one cannot but be
confident of a bright future.” In
1947, £57,500 was distributed
over 24 meetings. In 1955,
£125,000 for 32 meetings was
offered as stakes.
So we come to Tasmania,
where, at Mowbray Park, the
first trotting-meeting was held in
1880, and where today
enthusiasts are proud, with
reason, of the State’s association
with trotting. They can boast
some outstanding horses.
Inter-Dominion winners Band-
box, Logan Derby, Evicus,
Springfield Globe all belong to
the Apple State. Two recent
noteworthies are the brilliant
mare Dainty Rose and Flood-
light.
When Edgar Tatlow bought
Globe Derby and took him to
Tasmania for breeding purposes,
Tasmania became the centre of
Australian breeding, which was
to revolve around this wonderful
horse.
There are thirty trotting-
tracks in the State, but Elphin
and Elwick tower over the rest.
The meetings resemble the day
meetings held on the mainland.
An Easter Cup meeting with a
£lOOO stake, an S.T.T.C. Cup
meeting (£1000) and a £5OO
Derby highlight the year’s pro-
ceedings. In a country town,
Davenport, 60 miles from Laun-
ceston, an experiment in night-
trotting is being carried out.
They began there last November.
Queensland, as stated, is
the one exception in this overall
picture of Australia-wide trot-
ting as a leading sport. Good
horses —how they talk about
Bill Lark’s speedster, Little
Afghan—and good horsemen
have mostly had to go to other
States. Silver City and Scotty
Belmont are two recent Harold
Park winners bred in the North.
To take, in conclusion, a
general race round the main
trotting-States:
The N.S.W.T.C. holds three
big meetings a year: the Sum-
mer, Easter, and Spring Carni-
vals. As well as the Derby
and other big events already
mentioned, the main attractions
at these are a £5OOO Cup and a
£2500 Handicap. In the day-
trot era the £3OO Spring Handi-
cap was the “show” event of
the year. At least, the name
has survived.
Thirteen country clubs race
under the lights now in N.S.W.,
20 others in the daytime. The
next Inter-Dominion at Harold
Park will be something to see,
with horses from all States and
N.Z. competing, and the chance
that a top American performer
will be present.
In Western Australia the W.A.
Cup and the Christmas Cup are
today more important than ever.
Great horses and horsemen,
too —come from the West. It is
not every day we have a Richter
or a Beau Don. In his Lazy
Walkabout, one of Peter Bladen’s
many interesting jottings was:
“Tammin is a township with a
pleasant pub and green lawns.
In the West it had been known
as the ice-cream town, because
it was the home of Beau Don,
the famous trotter, whose owner
promised ice-cream to the
youngsters if the champion fur-
ther added to his laurels.” A
glance at performances would
suggest a lot of fat little tummies
in Tammin.
Frequent £lOOO events and a
£2500 Christmas Cup feature in
South Australian programmes
for the year. Visitors to Adelaide
comment on the way the meet-
ings are conducted at the neat
little Wayville course. Families
go along, taking their teas with
them, and enjoy a night of
entertaining trotting around the
sharp course. Braziers on the
course in the winter months!
Following the successful
Perth Inter-Dominion in 1953,
South Australia packed 47,000
into the Final on March 6. A
New South Wales-owned, West-
ern Australian-leased, -trained
and -driven horse, Tennessee
Sky, scored that night. Last year
Wayville rated an average
attendance of 22,000.
This year Victoria has held
its big A. G. Hunter Cup
(£3000), Victoria Cup (£4000),
Italian Cup (£2000), Easter Cup
(£2000) and Moomba Cup and
Trotters’ Hambletonian (each
worth £1000). The Italian Cup is
an interesting affair. By an
arrangement with the Italian
Trotting Association in Rome,
the Victorian club holds the race
and offers a trophy presented by
the Italian association. A recip-
rocal race held in Italy offers a
similar 60-guinea trophy pre-
sented by the Victorian Trotting
Control Board.
Twenty-two country clubs
race in Victoria. Of these, eight
race in the night; the rest still
have day-trots. Recently a Mel-
bourne journalist described how
scrub had been cleared at Ben-
digo to make way for a trot-
ting-course. When they held
their opening meeting, they
clashed with the Bendigo Cup
(gallopers), which had attracted
6000 people. The same night
15,000 passed through the gates
at the trotting attraction, while
an estimated 5000 got through
the back-fence and police turned
away another 5000.
Replay
By
Dal
Stwens
f] RATHER introspective
/H young donkey startled his
I father by saying, “Why,
yes, I’m sure it could be
done now!”
“What can be done, son?”
“Getting away with the lion’s
skin,” said the young ass. “I’m
sure we could fool them now.”
“What makes you think that,
pray?” asked his father. “Once
bitten, twice shy, should be the
lesson we asses should draw
from that earlier experience.”
“He wasn’t bitten,” said the
young ass scornfully. “He was
beaten. He brayed and people
knew he wasn’t a lion. They
belted him with sticks.”
“Beaten or bitten, it was pain-
ful enough,” said the father. -
Undeterred, the young ass pro-
cured a lion’s skin. He put it
on and trotted up and down.
“Fine feathers!” scoffed the
father.
“Fur!” said the young ass,
curling his lip.
“Feathers or fur!” said the
old ass. “Now, let us hear your
roar!”
The young ass opened his
mouth but instead of the bray
his father confidently antici-
pated, a full-blooded lion roar
thundered forth. The old ass was
so startled he sat down hard
on his stern and blinked his eyes
for half a minute before
gasping:
“It was a roar!”
“Why not?” said the young
ass, lightly. “It pays to advertise,
but you must deliver the goods.”
The old ass thought of
countering with “Empty vessels
make the most sound,” but
curiosity got the better of him
so he swallowed his words and
asked instead:
“But I can’t understand how
you were able to roar?”
“New days, new ways,” said
the young ass. “I’ve been study-
ing lions.” He roared again. “No
lion could do better.”
“Pride goes before a fall,”
said the old ass.
“Sweet grass tastes like docks
in the mouths of the old,” said
the young ass. “Never venture,
never win.”
“The proof of the hay is in
the eating,” said the father. “Let
us have more deeds and fewer
words.”
r pHE young ass set off for the
nearest village. On its out-
skirts he met a dog. Instead of
running away, the dog eyed the
ass idly.
“Why don’t you run?” asked
the ass.
“Why should I?” asked the
dog, boredly. “If you had come
up roaring then it would have
been correct to run. Besides, how
am I to know you aren’t an ass
in a lion’s skin? It has happened
before, you know.”
“This is how you know,” said
the young ass and opened his
mouth and roared.
“Okay, okay, you’re a lion,”
said the dog and took to his
heels.
He went only a quarter of a
mile. He sat up, scratched him-
self and ruminated, “It was as
well to be cautious, but I’m
positive that was no lion but an
ass in a lion-skin. I’ll go and
tell my master.”
The dog ran fast and met his
master.
“Master, there’s a silly ass
back there masquerading as a
lion,” said the dog. “Get your
stick.”
“That I will,” said the dog’s
master. “I’ll beat the impudent
fellow for trying to deceive
people with such a stale trick.”
“I thought you would say
that,” said the dog.
The master and the dog had
gone only a little way when the
ass came trotting along the road,
snarling and roaring.
“My fine ass, you’ll soon feel
the weight of my stick!” cried
the villager and ran forward.
“And my teeth!” cried the
dog.
The man swung his stick. The
ass opened his mouth wide,
roared loudly, and bit the man
hard on the arm. The man yelled
with the pain and dropped his
stick.
The villager fled. He ran very
hard for half a mile, with the dog
following, before he stopped.
“What did you run for,
master?” asked the dog. “It was
only an ass.”
“That may well be,” said the
villager. “But he bit like a lion.”
“But I can prove it was an
ass if you’ll allow me a few
words,” said the dog.
“Deeds are what count,” said
the master and began to beat
the dog.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 345
Across
I—Point introducing us into the
Country party with cups. (4)
3 —Trickery greeting 1-across and
8-across before its election to
the council. (5-5)
B—Bulb8 —Bulb sets us after a crocodile.
, (6)
10 —I had the alternative after
1-across fills-out this spittoon.
(8)
12 — Report the old man. (3)
13— Provides pictures with the
Italian prices of animal desire.
(ID
14— Sport at St. Moritz. (3)
15 — Saturate a mind initiating each
modern British undergraduate’s
exploit. (5)
17 —Loses moisture by skyscrapers.
(9)
19 — Belgian coal city to carbonise the
king for the French.' (9)
20 — A cove batting against a semi-
successful service. (5)
22 — South goes to the old country
for a Czech composer. (3)
23 Storming mother is losing regard
for her husband. (5, 3,3)
25—He appreciates perfection in a
fancy catalogue. (8)
27 — A bloke after Capone during
recess. (6)
28 — Victor’s sub-machine-gun in the
heart of a Serbian patriot. (10)
29 — Grounds of an American general.
(4) _
Down
1 — Drug business with a Manx
novelist. (7)
2 Swags upset furniture. (5)
3 Bohemian religious reformer.
(3)
4 Firms take a beverage. (5)
5 Esmond goes to seed tubes. (5)
6 Spiritual “heel” with regard to
a public register of lands. (9)
7 Manoeuvres by the besieged
larrikin’s description of pretty
young women. (7)
9 —This makes an international body
name letters free from an
enchantment. (7)
11 — Pu arriving? (9)
12- mercery among landed
assets. (10)
16 —This makes a native carry an
animal. (5, 4)
18 — Fupal unrelieved by an
anaesthetic. (7)
19— Like to go astray in a business
mountain famed in Italy for its
monastery? (7)
21 —Stopper can be extracted from
such headgear. (7)
23 — North wind is first, according to
this ancient physician. (5)
24 Literature is presumably against
seven other major compassr
points. (5)
26 N.Z. bird. (3)
27 — Timber resembling II with too
long a hyphen. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 344


"VONO" FOLDING BEDS-SHEARERS' TUBULAR STEEL BEDS-CAMP STRETCHERS
BRAND SPECIAL NEW
RUBBER DINGHIES-R.A.A.F. 2-
m
Krai
: §| 1
m
i
VARIETV OF SIZES IN STOCK
Brand Spanking New. Price £9/19/6 each.
The cheapest in Sydney.
ry#fs
BRAND NEW
750 x 17, 8 ply NEW Commercial Tread,
£l4/10/- each.
1050 x 16, Bar Tread or Commercial Tread, 12 ply,
NEW at £22/10/- each.
900 x 16, Commercial Tread, 10 ply,
NEW at £22/10/- each.
FOLDING TABLES
: 2 ■
OLPED
These have been used and are in good condition.
Suitable for shearers’ sheds, week-enders, camping
and caterers. Unlimited stocks.
6ft. x 3ft 70/- each.
Brand New Folding Tables with steel legs.
top. Condition guaranteed.
Wooden
£4/10/- each.
BUILDINGS
FOR SALE
M
4sm
Bd
nri
Ex-army Igloo Types, in used
but perfect condition. Sizes 100
x 40, complete with ends. Very
Heavy Quality Iron. An out-
standing: buy.
ONLY
Limited number.
£750
£320
nm
These huts are the cheapest
storage that can be constructed
and are in perfect condition.
Also can be used for week-
enders, etc. Very simply erected.
IS
EX-ARMY
(8-man.) Will stand any weather.
Made from Olive canvas and in
perfect condition. All ropes
attached.
Price £l5/10/- each
WOODEN DROP SIDE
BABY COTS
Size
4ft. x 2ft. and 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in.
Limited Stocks.
Price £4/5/- each
Fly Screen Wire
lim it"
W&tU'JJ
lllilim
f:;r"Ss2Ssl*Mfi
m
24m. 40/-, 30in. 50/
New Fly Screen Wire
100 ft. Foils.
Jtoll I.ots only.
Canvas Folding Chairs
L
ft
m
Arm -rest style. Condition
perfect. Ideal for week-
enders, .camping, leisure.
Price 30/ '•. each
FOLDING
CHAIR
Price 17/6
Set of 3
45/-
ea.
Folding: Chair, Wooden and
braced solidly with steel.
Complete folding. Used bnt
in good condition. Price 17/G
each. Ideal for campers, card
games and any emergency.
SPECIAL! SPECIAL! SPECIAL!
900 x 16, Bor 10 ply, S.H. £l9/10/-
BAR TREAD TYRES
Horry, these won’t last long. Every tyre
serviced before sale.
SECOND-HAND
TYRES
TRUCK SIZES:
600 x 20, S.H., 8 ply,
£B/10/- each.
650 x 20, S.H., 8 ply,
£ll each.
700 x 20, S.H., 8 or 10 ply,
£1.2/10/- each.
RADIATORS
Brand New Chev.
Price £2O each
TARPAULINS
Size 24 x 18 £25
Size 18 x 14 £l3/10/-
Size 14 x 12 £lO
All eyelets reinforced.
A good quality tarpaulin at
bargain prices.
SPECIAL. SPECIAL.
S.H. Excellent Quality
TARPAULINS
Size 30 x 10 and 30 x 20
Price £l6/10/- and
£3O each
LIMITED N CAUSE St ONLY
CYLINDER BLOCKS
Cylinder block, New. G.M.C.
1941-1942 model. Price £32/10/-.
E§
Petrol Driven D.C.
GENERATING UNIT
Ideal for lighting, Battery
Charging, etc. BRAND NEW.
OUTPUT 600 volts, .065 amp.
12.6 volts, .86 amp.
SPEED Power drive, 2100 r.p.m.
Hand drive, 50/70 r.p.m.
This is a compact self-con-
tained unit including all spares,
petrol cans and storage case,
cable, etc.
PRICE PER UNIT, £5O.
Manufactured for the U.S. Navy.
FOLDING STOOLS, WOODEN
folded
Tn suit, the 6ft.
x 3ft. Foldhut
Tables. For caterers,
weekenders, etc.
■
27/6 each
BEDS BEDS BEDS
"VONO" FOLDING BEDS
Are normal beds with top and bottom ends that fold
underneath spring wire. Guaranteed perfect condition.
Price 55/- each
MATTRESSES
30/- each
EX-ARMY MATTRESS
TO SUIT THE SINGLE BED
Mattress 2ft. 6in. x 6ft., 30/- each
3ft. Mattress, 35/-.
4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. BABY
MATTRESS, 20/-.
Ex-Army BLANKETS
EX-ARMY 25/- BLANKETS
A pure all-wool blanket at right
price. Post 2/- extra.
MATTRESS COVERS
Extra heavy quality. Last np /
a lifetime. Single bed only “
Post 3/6 extra
BED SHEETS
Army Sheets, Used. Laundered
condition. Good. Single Bed only.
15/- pair
Post 2/- extra.
KIT BAGS
Heavy Duty Canvas.
14/6 each
Post 3/- extra.
MOSQUITO
NETS
EX-ARMY.
BRAND NEW. White,
single-bed size.
35/- each
Double-bed size.
45/- each
Ex-Army Green Mos-
quito Nets, single-bed
size.
Only 25/- each
Post on all nets 2/0
extra.
Ex-Army
WOOEEEN
S.D. JACKETS
m
■
Up to 30in. ehest. No
larger.
30/- each
Post 1/9 each
SECOND HAND QUALITY BATHS
SWSfti
■:■'
BBAND NEW
Jhese Baths are Brand New and a first class buy.
> ariety of colours such as Blue, Green, White arid
ciearn. Please state second Choice in case of out of
stock of first preference.
Add £1 extra for Cartage and Packing.
Price £l7/10/- ea.
Ex-Army
KNIVES,
FORKS and
SPOONS
mm
If I
isliSk
m
urn
(K,
by
b&rtd, \
Ex-Army Knives, Forks
nnd Spoons,
Price 10/- doz.
WIRE ROPE
m
Rrani] new.
7-8” dia. 2/6 ft.
i” dia. 1/3 ft.
Any lenjrth cut. .
Heavy duty.
Don't delay.
30
&
EX-ARMY SHIRTS
and in perfect con-
dition. Sizes SM and Youths.
Ideal for work.
Price 10/- each
Post 1/6 extra.
EX-ARMY SHORTS
Laundered and in excellent con-
dition. Sizes small men’s, youths’
and boys’. Post 1/6 extra.
Price 7/6 Pair
WATER TANKS
Square, solid steel, not too
heavy to handle, a tap can
easily be fitted as the place is
there for it. A cover for the
top, and this can be used for
carting water, and the lid can
be sealed. This article is sold
with a money-back guarantee.
PRICE £lO
PLEASE WRITE NAME AND ADDRESS PLAINLY AND IN BLOCK LETTERS
NO C.O.D. MAIL, PHONE, OR CALL NO C.O.D.
Add Exchange to Cheques. When delivered at Siding please add Freight
KING'S
LEATHER GOODSTYRES
122-124 Devonshire St.
£cuUUe/uf
GENERAL MERCHANTS
Sydney
A few doors *'rorr> Elizabeth Street, near Central Station
Phones: FA 9155, FA 7691—MX 3954. After hours only: MX 1269
KHAKI
TROUSERS
16/6 Pair
Ex-Army Khaki Drill
Trousers in waist sizes up to
30in. No larger size. Used but
have been laundered in perfect
condition. (Small only.)
Ideal for work in garden, etc.
Post 2/- extra.
WRITE FOR
FREE
CATALOGUE
Ex-army Pullovers,
in sizes up to 34in.
chest. In perfect
condition. /#
PRICE iV/0
R.A.A.P. Jackets
(Woollen), Blue, in
sizes up to 36in.
chest. No larger.
PRICE na f
EACH wW/*
EX-ARMY
SLOUCH HATS
Ex - Army reconditioned,
blocked and cleaned bats all
sizes, price 25/- each.
Ex-Army damaged slonch
hats. Blocked and cleaned.
All sizes. Price 17/6. Part
2/6 extra on all hats.


# “**** **• Ms* %.* >* ’
•m
<W\ <*s•s
#'
•* .
f" :V SSf -/ ' ,
Q. > *- ■***%>
#lfe 1, :!*&.;, ■&"'
wwj*
mm*?*
W
mm
m
• I
m
8P
l
<v |
, ? T, mSk < ”* - *
. •« << *- v«v/V' ' ki-: s-
sis**
ils
: '-•:"
<y Zap* 'X**
;■■ :ss?: :•*••
iS Si, ::rfr SS-. « -*3
:<¥•
y» v
■m
Wt :«T
*» • ' » -
X *” '#fj> < v Av< y ’
7a
*■■
- >Wm.'-,.
m
'"*-%>
ISM
mm
JSI#P ;
m
.
Your Home 9 your Car 9 and YOU-
r As the breadwinner you work hard to provide your family with
every ounce of material welfare you can afford, doing your utmost
to keep them happy, healthy and secure —that’s as long as you live!
Is that enough? Of course it’s not, if you want for them a secure
future, because you know there is the troubling possibility that
you may not always be here to look after them . . ,
Plan now for the future security of your family with an M.L.C.
Family Income Policy which will provide for a guaranteed
monthly income for your dependants. This policy offers the
greatest life assurance cover for the premium you can afford. Here
are the actual benefits provided by an M.L.C. Family Income
(Scale 3) Policy upon death within the selected family income
period of up to 20 years.
(1) Full amount of policy plus bonuses.
(2) Guaranteed Monthly Income for balance of the selected
period.
Should the policy holder survive the period for family income
benefits the policy continues as a general life policy.
jrffl
BE WELL ADVISED BY THE M.L.C. MAN
ML49a/FP
The M.L.C. also offers variations
of these family income benefits
—particulars will be readily
supplied without obligation on
request .
Contact the nearest M.LC.
Office or Representative for
further details of this Plan .
The
(incorporated in N. 5.11.)
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS'
Assurance Co. Limited
