

/
V
•*&>
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
FURNITURE RISKS AND RACKETS —PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3917
Wednesday, March 9, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
HAREWOOD: ONE OF ENGLAND’S GREAT TREASURE HOUSES
No. 236: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt
SEVEN miles south of Harrogate in a spacious park overlooking Wharfedale,
in the West Riding of Yorkshire, is Harewood House. For many years
this imposing mansion has been the historic home of the Earls of Harewood
and its distinction lies not only in the magnificence of its numerous apartments
but also in its furnishings, its priceless pictures and chinaware. Here, for
example, can be seen Sevres porcelain and Celadon china which form one
of the most valuable private collections in the world.
Although the existing mansion dates only from 1759 it is the latest of
three buildings to stand on the estate which was given by William the
Conqueror to one of his barons, Robert de Romelli. In later years the
estate was in the possession of several famous families, including the
Aldburghs and the Gascoignes. The Aldburghs built a massive fortified
manor house there, and the shell of this 14th-century stronghold still occupies
a corner of the estate. About the year 1650 the local centre of power and
authority passed to adjoining Gawthorpe estate, owned by the Gascoignes.
The most famous member of this family was Lord Chief Justice Gascoigne,
who had the courage to commit Prince Henry (later Henry V) to prison
for contempt of court.
The two properties were bought in 1759 by Edwin; Lascelles, who later
took the title, Earl of Harewood, when he was made a peer. He com-
missioned the architect John Carr to design the imposing mansion which
has since been the Harewood seat. The original designs were modified by
Robert Adam, who was engaged to decorate the apartments, and these were
furnished by Thomas Chippendale. The mansion took twenty years to
build and the total cost was about £lOO,OOO. Later Earls of Harewood
continued to embellish the house and architectural improvements were made
in the 18th century by Sir Charles Barry.
All the rooms are richly decorated and furnished, but perhaps the most
magnificent of all is the Long Gallery, one of Adam’s masterpieces, and
which contains some of Chippendale’s finest work. Paintings by Reynolds
and Hoppner adorn the walls, and in the beautiful Rose Drawing Room
can be seen the finest private collection of pictures by Florentine and
Venetian masters of the 15th and 16th centuries.
Frequent royal visitors to Harewood were Queen Victoria and Queen
Mary.


The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN PHOTO-ALBUM
Irma Pearl’s suave arrangement of
old photographs in Our Yesterdays;
Australian Life Since 1853 in Photo-
graphs (Angus and Robertson) is well-
matched by Cyril Pearl’s com-
mentaries, models of concision in which
the amusement old Victorian photo-
graphs evoke is carefully suppressed in
the interest of information. One
imagines that Mr. and Mrs. Pearl
may have begun this collection as an
amusement and been charmed into a
more sober kind of appreciation.
The introduction, which crowds an
astonishing amount of detail about the
history of photography in Australia
into two pages, supplies the main
reason for the lack of man-on-the-land
pictures noticeable in a quick turn-
over of the book: the only picture of
a man with a plough, for instance, is
of Les Darcy working his Maitland
farm; and the answer is that the
daguerrotype, which first appeared in
Australia about 1845, was an uncopy-
able metal plate that was taken and
delivered to the sitter in four minutes,
while the wet-plate, which arrived
around the middle ’fifties, “had to be
lorepared, exposed, developed and fixed
>n the spot, and the whole operation
completed within five minutes. This
neant carrying round a cumbersome
set of bottles and trays, and some
orm of light-proof enclosure.... ”
The modern dry-plate did not arrive
intil the 1880’s.
Hence no early pictures of farmers
it work; yet the difficulty of manag-
ng wet-plates in the field did not
ieter the young Englishman, Beaufoy
Merlin, from making the now-famous
Holtermann collection of pictures of
mining towns like Gulgong and Hill
End, which provided “The Bulletin”
with a supplement and a picture
similar to Henry Lawson’s old
bark schoolhouse, and which
gives the present collection many
pages of beautifully defined photo-
graphs, including the picture of
“J. Kennedy, Practical Tailor, Late of
Sydney,” standing outside his bark-
roofed shop, to which Mr. Pearl, with
excellent restraint, appends no com-
ment at all. xAgain, there was Captain
Sweet, who followed the overland
telegraph across the desert from
Adelaide to Darwin in the ’7o’s.
By the 1890’s Charles Kerry had
gone so far as to do the fine pictures
“Meeting the Mailman” and the group
of swagmen on page 111; but up until
then the genre picture was more often
posed against a backdrop . . . From
all of which it can be concluded that
photography, then, as the newsreel
now, appealed most as a record of the
bizarre and unusual: goldmining; the
Kelly Gang —they have a picture of a
photographer photographing the dead
Joe Byrne, hung up outside the burnt
hotel at Glenrowan by the obliging
police; actresses —they seemed bred for
the table or some other piece of furni-
ture; celebrities and great events, like
the fine view of the laying of the
Australia-New Zealand cable from the
beach at Botany Bay in 1876.
Some of the portraits are as enchant-
ing as works of art. The finest, of Tom
Cambridge, postman at Windsor,
N. S. Wales, from 1835 to 1862, taken
I with one or two studies of the beautiful
American actress, Mrs. Cora Brown
Potter, who visited Australia in the
1890’s, might almost convince you that
the camera is another Gainsborough,
capable like him of turning from the
exquisite to comedy bordering on cari-
cature. Others are rare studies of
authors: those of Adam Lindsay
Gordon, Kendall and Marcus Clark,
for instance; a portrait of Henry
Lawson as a young man that may well
revise the impressions of those who
have seen only later portraits; a por-
trait of Isaac Nathan, whose name was
revived a year or so ago in Dr.
Orchard’s surprising account of Aus-
tralia’s flourishing music in the middle
of last century—Nathan’s “Don John
of Austria” (1847) was the first opera
written and produced in Australia, and,
says Mr. Pearl, Nathan had known
Byron, and had written music for his
“Hebrew Melodies.”
Among other curiosities is a group
of English cricketers who visited Aus-
tralia in 1861. Its main interest is in
the commentary. They were brought
out by Spiers and Pond, the Melbourne
caterers; evidently as a business ven-
ture, for the caterers made £16,000 out
of the season and moved to London.
“Charles Dickens refused their offer of
£lO,OOO clear for a 12-months’ reading
tour of Australia.” Spiers and Pond
conducted the Cafe de Paris and other
refreshment-services attached to the
Melbourne Theatre Royal (1855-72),
pictured here.
Old-time soldiers and firemen; foot-
ballers; bicyclists from riders of bone-
shakers to scandalous young ladies
wearing knickerbockers in 1895; Mr.
H. L’Estrange, who crossed Middle
Harbor on a tightrope in 1877; a
“Salvo” tricyclist of the ’BOV, Princes
Albert and George (later George V),
looking singularly like a pair of
Spanish matadors, at a mine-
inspection; the Sydney identity Mr.
Quong Tart; a photographic scoop
of European men and women
lying side-by-side in a Melbourne
opium-den; early Sydney postmen;
Darlinghurst jailers of 1880; J. C.
Williamson and , his wife, Maggie
Moore, both in ordinary life and in
character in a scene from “Struck
Oil”; Grace Palotta; early Australian-
made steam-cars, aeroplanes, gliders,
electric hansoms; stills from the first
moving-picture made in Australia —of
the 1896 Melbourne Cup; Carlo Dani
recording by the old phonograph-
acoustic process in Sydney during the
season in which his company gave 169
performances in 10 months ...
Altogether, a fascinating book both
to look at and to read, though Mr.
Pearl might have denied himself the
one piece of corn that journalistic com-
mentators on Australia’s past seem
unable to resist: “....the Sydney
‘Bulletin,’ then a vigorous and liberal
publication.... ” It reminds one of
the days when Mr. Pearl was a
vigorous young journalist, and wrote
an article on modem art that owed not
a little to the theories of Clive Bell;
whereupon a Sydney savant (who had
probably spent the evening thinking it
up) inquired of as large a company as
he could muster who had written the
article. They told him it was Master
Pearl. “Ah,” said the savant;
“obviously a culture-Pearl!”
Clune on Ned Kelly
The dialogue and indeed the whole
scene on page 198 of Frank Clune’s
The Kelly Hunters (Angus and Robert-
son), when “an elderly ledger-keeper”
named Henry Dudley, before the raid
on Euroa, mistakes Ned Kelly for a
policeman and threatens “I’ll report
you to your superior officer,” seems
vaguely familiar, as if one had read it
somewhere in a work of fiction about
the Kellys; and if the book were to be
reviewed as serious history one would,
of course, be obliged to check the
formidable list of sources and refer-
ences at the end to make sure that this
dim recollection was not doing a grave
injustice to Mr. Clune and his
“literary ally,” P. R. Stephensen.
Another point worth checking—and
I one of much more importance, since
the episode as Mr. Clune relates it
would show a cold-blooded, calculat-
ing ferocity in Ned Kelly hardly
revealed in so full a measure before
in spite of the original murder of
the three policemen and the
attempt to wreck the train at Glen-
rowan —would be the account of the
murder of the informer Aaron Sherritt.
Instead of showing the plan to wreck
the train developing from the decision
to kill Sherritt, Mr. Clune has it the
other way round: the outlaws have
decided to wreck a train and—“ Now
Ifhat could the gang do at Beechworth
/hich would bring out a special train
few hours later?... .‘Shoot Aaron
Iherritt!’ It was probably [on what
uthority?] Joe Byrne who made this
uggestion, but all the gang agreed
hat the extermination of that cad
vould confer a benefit on the human
ace.” Thus Sherritt is murdered not
n hot blood as a traitor, but merely
is a means of getting at the police and
>lacktrackers in the train.
However, packed with interest as it
s, “The Kelly Hunters” cannot pos-
libly be taken as the “definitive his-
ory” Mr. Clune hopes. It is by far the
hllest account of the Kellys yet pub-
ished, fascinating if poorly written
n its detail, and contains a mass of
rough-and-ready research —with the
jurprising revelation that Ned Kelly’s
’amily may have been linked with that
Df Buffalo Bill. But it is too obviously
and naively partisan to be accepted
anywhere as reliable.
Mr. Clune is, of course, careful to
make it clear that Ned Kelly was a
scoundrel as well as, for his “gameness”
and other'qualities, the stuff of legend;
but he is in such a state of agitated
indignation at the police, the judiciary,
the Government, the squattocracy and
the nation at large throughout the book
that he is utterly unable to maintain
the balance of mind which a historian
must have.
There is, for instance, John (“Red”)
Kelly, the outlaw’s father. “Red”
Kelly, Mr. Clune interestingly asserts,
was transported to Australia not, as
all previous writers have believed, for
shooting his landlord but for stealing
two pigs. There is a tradition, he says
further, that the clan in the 18th century
“belonged to a bunch of toughs known
as ‘the Bohermore robbers,’ ” high-
waymen of Ireland.
When this stealer of pigs and
possible descendant of highwaymen —
not that there is very much in all that,
except that Mr. Clune really should
admit the possibility that “Red” was
a wild lad; as plenty of the “mountainy
men” of Ireland are to this day—
when he has served his time in Van
Diemen’s Land and (“It was love at
first sight”) has eloped with Ellen
Quinn and settled on the land, he at
once becomes “a quiet, decent citi-
zen.” Then he becomes “timid and
peaceful.” Then, without Mr. Clune’s
being aware of the slightest incon-
sistency in his characterisation, he is
charged with cattle-stealing and con-
licted on a lesser charge of “having
[legally in his possession one cow
Lyde.” Surely it is not a timid and
>eaceful thing to steal a neighbor’s
ow.
Now, the Quinns and the Kellys were
>bviously, on Mr. Clune’s own show-
ng, the nest of cattle-thieves, brawlers
ind sly-groggers which the police said
hey were.
Jimmy Quinn was convicted of
lorse-stealing and, after a pub-brawl,
‘violent assault”; Jim Kelly, “Red’s”
srother, after two previous prosecu-
tions had failed, was convicted of
cattle-stealing and got three years;
‘Red” Kelly, as noted above, went to
jail for having illegal possession of a
cow-hide (with ten pounds of salt beef
in the cask and a hindquarter of fresh
beef hanging on a hook); Ellen Kelly’s
two brothers-in-law, John and Tom
Lloyd, each got five years for cattle-
stealing; “the widow Kelly,” after
“Red’s” death, was fined 40-shillings
for what Mr. Clune calls “a worried
and poverty-stricken widow’s tirade”
and what the law called “abusive and
threatening language”; Jim Kelly,
“Red’s” brother again, on one of his
frequent reappearances in the courts
after his first conviction, got a death-
sentence, commuted to 15 years, for
burning Kate Lloyd’s hut to the
ground “either accidentally or in
drunken pique,” as Mr. Clune guile-
lessly observes; Pat Quinn got three
years for knocking a policeman on the
head with a stirrup-iron ... so the
record goes on until at one stage there
were “seven men of the Kelly house-
hold all in jail at the same time
Jim Kelly [Ned’s brother], at the age
of 14, would be locked-up with
hardened criminals—for five years!
Bitter were the lamentations of the
Widow Kelly and her household at this
new and terrible blow.”
Ned also had his first brush with the
Iw at the age of 14, when he was
quitted through lack of evidence on
large of whacking a Chinaman
imed Ah Fook on the legs with a
amboo and robbing him of ten-
lillings.
Police persecution, wrongful arrests,
ilse evidence, and over-severe
mtences there may have been in plenty
s Mr. Clune repeatedly alleges; but
le general picture of the Kellys and
le Quinns as martyred saints is
idicrous.
Mr. Clune writes of “one-sided
istice.” Anyone who has maintained
iat the Quinns were “innately vicious”
;, in one of his characteristically
istressing phrases, a “moralising pooh-
>ah.” If the Quinns did grow up
half-wild in the bush,” without
eligious instruction “except such as
heir hard-worked parents were able
o impart to them” [!], then the
dame for all their subsequent law-
essness “must be placed on the
;allous British and colonial govern-
ng-classes who had no thought of pro-
dding for the educational needs of
;hildren such as these.” It is even
uggested, as a justification for the
lushrangers, that the Avenel tollgate
vas “legalised highway-robbery
Med Kelly had much to learn from
he Government of the day.” Surely
Vlr. Clune would not suggest that the
rlarbor Bridge toll, annoying though
t may be, justifies Darcy Dugan.
As a necessary corollary to this
attempt to paint the bushrangers white,
:he police are painted very black
indeed. Superintendent Hare, who was
shot in the wrist at Glenrowan, is
shown as “trembling like a jelly,”
is called “a big jellyfish” and generally
portrayed as an arrant coward. Yet the
same Superintendent Hare had tackled,
single-handed, an armed robber at
Mackay’s station on the Ovens River,
and captured him after a hard fight;
had arrested a murderer named Brooks
and, with one constable to aid him,
held at bay a crowd bent on lynching
the criminal; had proved his courage in
a dozen such episodes when he joined
the police after his early days of
roughing it with his swag on the gold-
fields. Mr. Clune pays no attention
whatever to Hare’s own account of his
retirement from the Glenrowan battle:
how he fainted from loss of blood;
how the bullet was found to have cut
an artery and how, after he had tried
to get back to the fray and had been
restrained by his doctor, he became
unconscious . . .
To call such a man “a big jellyfish”
and to maintain (when no other
sentence was possible) that Mr. Justice
Barry sent Ned Kelly to the gallows in
a fit of “judicial whimsicality” may
make lively reading, of a kind, but it
is hardly that measured, “definitive
history” of the bushrangers which, after
so much popular romancing, is long
overdue.
Four Australian Songs
One no longer had a piano to try out
Men of Eureka and Other Australian
Songs composed by Percy Jones to
verses by Mary Gilmore, E. J. Brady,
C. J. Dennis and James Devaney
(Allan & Co.); and this was most
fortunate for Dr. Jones: one took the
music to Palings, where a young lady
played it through to its best advantage.
The march, “Men of Eureka,” to
Mary Gilmore’s words,
Digger by digger they marched,
Each man in his order
As digger by digger they marched
Over the border,
is rather ordinary; “The Traveller,” to
words by C. J. Dennis,
As I rode in to Burrumbeit
I met a man with funny feet
is the more-or-less standard loping
rhythm and setting for such fantasies,
and Brady’s “Sea Shanty,”
What did the Captain say to the
cook
When the ship went down the
river?
I’ve left my girl in Melbourne
Town,
\ Her hair was black and her eyes
were brown
And I’ll love my girl for ever...
is a standard song of the sea with
chorus. Of course you could hardly
(i Continued on page 35)


Introducing the Entirely New
a
99
Here is the very latest scientific achievement in leather processing. This smart new
colour, “Saddle-hide,” is not merely a colour, it’s a treatment in which
the leather hides are specially oiled to bring out all the natural beauty of graining and
give extra long life to the finished made-up article.
A.—FollO Case This convenient size bag, made on
steel frame and with three compartments. Can be used
as document case or combined document and overnight
bag. Overall size 18 x 13 x 9in. Priced at £7/12/3.
5
>■: '
m
■
B.—Blouse Case A rounded edge case, beautifully lined, also
inside pocket, steel frame, rustless locks and fittings. 22in. £9/18/9,
24in. £lO/16/9, 26in. £ll/14/9.
5^2
t.
: v' ;
II
D
f:
mm
mmm
WOWm
wm
1
"Saddle-hide” luggage is exclusive to
wm
Each article carries our own famous jprand, which guarantees quality,
durability and genuine value “HORDURA.”
C. —Hat Case
To match in design and
quality, square shaped,
size 18in. Price £B/5/-,
D,—Grip Case
A beautifully designed
bag, lightweight yet
built on a wide opening
steel frame, cloth lined,
comfortable double
handles and rustless
Size S '2oin. .. £B/9/6.
£.—Suit Case
A popular wide case,
with hide covered steel
frame, pear - shaped
corners, cloth lined, in-
side packing straps and
rustless brass locks and
fittings. Available in
24in. £lO/19/9, 26in.
£ll/18/6, and 28in.
£l2/16/9*
mmm
\ ; ■ - V -V
i v . f: ■ ■. - ; .
* •-: * »•< ■ :*-..
V....<s< '■?' JS-jfo? *• f •"••;■ •
> |v; •••■•?. . >yx<->«“>x-x<-.
<? x/
■< **
';■ * */ ■; 7 A .
' ■<' y , <•*>
wmmmmiwm
.i... . i
t « (. * % i i i i
STORE OPENS
8.30
a.m.
Avail yourself of our Kandy
shopping hours. You can
now shop before going to
the office and keep the
lunch hour free. You can
also come in and have
breakfast with your friends
at our Second Floor Dining
Room any morning Mon-
day to Friday 8.30-10 a.m.
Moderate prices.
LAY-BY (D.P.S.)
You are invited to avaii
yourself of our Lay-by ser-
vice. It’s a wonderful help
when special bargains are
being offered. Just a small
deposit secures the goods
fof you, then pay the bal-
ance off at your own con-
venience. Country cus-
tomers, too, can lay-by
goods just by forwarding
us the deposit (4/- in the
£). We’ll reserve whatever
you want (except furni-
ture) until your next trip
to town. Lay-by Office.
Second Floor.
RESTAURANTS
In Anthony Horderns' store
there are four conveniently
located eating places.
Ground Floor, Pitt Street,
you will find a quick service
buffet, also a Soda Foun-
tain. The “Tudor” room is
located on a quietly situ-
ated mezzanine floor, down
stairs from the silk depart-
ment, Ground Floor, Pitt
Street. Main Dining Room
is on the Second Floor,
next to Shoe Department.
T. O. P. 5.
Dial 80951 and do your
shopping easy. TOPS
(Telephone Orders and
Personal Shopping) en-
ables you to shop at any
counter in our store. Just
phone 80951 and ask for
TOPS. We’ll deliver your
order promptly to your
home or office. Busy ex-
ecutives, housewives, shift
and factory workers
already use this easy shop-
ping service.
CLOTHING
HOSPITAL
Our famous Clothing Hos-
pital will undertake repairs,
invisible mending, altera-
tions, refitting, re-lining,
etc., for both men’s and.
women’s clothing. Mod-
erate charges. Also, we
have a service where we
undertake all manner of
reconditioning of leather
coats and jackets. Clothing
Hospital, Ground Floor,
George Street,
REPAIRS
Anthony Horderns’ are
famous for all classes of
repair work. Lawnmowers,
watches, furniture, blinds,
umbrellas, everything elec-
trical, stockings, etc., to
mention just a few.
I
' TRUTH IN. ADVERTISING'-
inthony Horderns
LUGGAGE DEPARTMENT—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET
BOX 2712, G.P.O., SYDNEY—PHONE B095I


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 9, 1955
Vol. 76—No, 3917
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;,
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
LABOR AT THE ABYSS
THE main feature of the Victorian A.L.P.
Conference, called at the edict of the Federal
Executive, was that it has handed over control
of the Victorian party —or hopes it has —to a
group of union-secretaries. There are a few others
in the new group of dictators, but they are there
for show rather than use. There are even a few
union men there whom the majority no doubt
feel they do not need, but who are better where
they can be watched.
As a prototype of what “Labor” will in future
be, the new body is interesting. On the one side
it has excluded the representatives of rank-and-file
“Labor” —what might be called the amateurs who
are in the party on a matter of principle. On the
other hand, the industrial-groupers have also been
pushed out. They also were there on the basis
of principle—one hopes—a principle based on a
desire to assure that the Communist party will
never assume control of “Labor,” but that control
of the A.L.P. would be lodged in a regimented
organisation diametrically opposed to Communism.
The Victorian “executive” has become the
exclusive preserve of the professional union-
organiser and agitator and the professional
politician, the latter a sort of helot section. Its,
composition reflected the make-up of the
electoral conference, which consisted of 213 dele-
gates from the unions and 29 from the State
electoral councils. The effect of the change is
that the executive now becomes a union pressure-
group, with those on whom they expect to be able
to bring pressure—members of the Federal and
State Parliaments and their immediate hangers-on.
The old Victorian Executive and its supporters,
of course, boycotted the meeting, which it claims
to be held in conflict with the rules of the party,
a matter which is soon to be tested in the courts ;
but despite the scrutiny of credentials and records,
there were at least some present representing
unions which have been Red in the past. The
nature of the gathering could be judged by the
fact that Mr. McNolty, general-secretary of the
Sheetmetal Workers, a union whose pride and joy
has for 20 years been Comrade Tom Wright
(Moscow delegate and head of the financial system
of the Communist party), polled 204 out of the
242 possible votes. The conference elected as
delegates to the Federal Executive Messrs. Stout,
(the new president) and D. Lovegrove, a chameleon-
like “Labor” statesman who was once an ardent
Communist, left that movement covered in the scars
of a beating-up which his erstwhile comrades
tendered him by way of farewell, supported the
industrial-groups at the beginning of the present
fracas, and landed in the new junta by means of
a graceful somersault.
The charter of the industrial-groups has been
withdrawn in Victoria. It seems that auto-
matically the charters of Messrs. Calwell,
Keon, Bourke, Mullens and Peters, and per-
haps some others, must also be withdrawn.
The measure of their popularity can be
judged by the fact that Mr. Peters, who, while
maintaining his foothold in the old party, attended
the conference of the new one, received only 80
votes in the poll to elect the new executive. At
the same time the Federal Executive so far has been
frightened to proceed against them. No specific
charges have been lodged in the Federal Executive
against even the chief objects of Dr. Evatt’s wrath,
Keon, Mullens and Bourke. Their “attention has
been drawn to the executive’s decision calling for
party unity.”
The position is the more peculiar because
there is no unanimity as between the States any
more than there is unanimity between factions
in Victoria, the first State in which there has been
a showdown at the instance of what at first were
known as “rebel unions,” of which the principal
one was the A.W.U., a “moderate” concern
strangely ready to lie down with extreme Leftist
elements.
But the really interesting position exists in New
South Wales. It is, of course, the State of “Labor’s”
heroic leader who plunged so fearlessly into the fray
against “The Movement,” waving a Red-herring,
after he had been exposed as a libeller of the most
wanton type before the Petrov Royal Commission,
and needed a diversion. In N. S. Wales, where he
ostensibly “leads” in the Federal sphere, the
industrial - groups appear to be so strongly
entrenched that their opponents are con-
tent to stand at a distance and abuse them.
The thought of attacking and ousting them,
backed as they are by the formidable
Federal Ironworkers and Clerks’ Unions and
some more of intimidating tonnage, has so far
been too much for the courage of the organisers of
the purity campaign which seeks to purge “Labor”
of Catholics and reactionaries. The N.S.W. indus-
trial-groups still have their charter. The A.L.P. still
has their funds, though a change of control would
certainly assure that the Waterside Workers and
other Communist-led unions would come up with
the wherewithal to support the right candidates at
the next election.
The position is even complicated by the fact
that Mr. Dougherty, the clumsy leader of Dr. Evatt’s
organisational faction in Sydney, has denounced
Mr. Cahill as belonging to the enemy. Thus,
despite the laying of charges against the N. S. Wales
branch by no fewer than 20 unions in December, it
appears likely that the delegates from N. S. Wales
to the Federal Conference on March 14 will
represent the Old Firm and will arrive full of
fire and with vocal muscles in trim.
The conference should be a sight for the
gods— at a distance.
The only thing definitive about the so-called
“Labor” party at present is its divisions. These
are clear-cut. They must be horrifying to genuine
“Labor” men, if there are any left. They must
be doubly ominous to Dr. Evatt, who, if he is as
intelligent as he has credit for being, should by this
time have realised the ruin which he has brought
on the “Labor” movement and the fact that his day
as a leader is over, whatever else happens to those
who have followed him to the edge of the abyss.
When Television Conies
TWELVE months ago a Unesco report on
television recorded that 21 nations were operating
TV-services, another seven were carrying out
technical experiments, and in a further 24 Govern-
ments or private organisations were taking steps
to introduce a service. Australia was—and still
is—in the third category.
Many Australians have the idea that TV in
other countries is an all-round-the-clock affair,
to be switched on or off at will, but this is far from
being the case. Broadcast television, as distinct
from mere experiment, began in Britain in 1936,
with a weekly viewing-time of 12 hours, yet it was
only towards the end of last year that the telecast
programmes attained a forty-hour week.
One reason for Australia’s lagging behind in
TV is its isolation ; there has been no spur from
neighboring nations such as operated to prod even
the smaller countries of Europe to set up their own
stations. A more potent reason is the limited range
of TV-transmitters. The new Independent Tele-
vision Authority recently established in Britain
to run a commercial TV-network entirely separate
from the 8.8. C. is installing transmitters with a
range of 40 miles, and presumably it is using the
best equipment available. This explains why in
Australia the new amenity will at first be confined
to the capital cities.
Some idea of the task involved in bringing
TV within reach of the entire Commonwealth
can be gained from details given of the “Euro-
vision” programmes inaugurated last year and
in which eight countries —Britain, France, Holland,
Belgium, Denmark, Western Germany, Switzerland
and Italy—participated. The network made use
of 46 transmitting-stations, 80 relay-stations and
four converter-stations. The population of the
participating countries exceeded 200 million;
Australia, with a greater area, has fewer than
10 million.
The introduction of TV into Australia will be
a gradual process ; the present plans provide for
one Government and two commercial stations in
Melbourne and a similar number in Sydney.
Stations in other State capitals will follow, and
relay-stations will gradually spread the service
throughout the country. It is unfortunate that a
nation-wide service cannot be established right
away. If that were possible, and if it were also
possible to wed the transmitters to a time-machine,
no better treat could be given viewers as their
first programme than a flashback to the proceedings
of the Broadcasting Control Board in Sydney,
when seven applicants took turns to advance their
claims for one of the two commercial licences
to be allocated.
In contrast with all that has been said about
the dominance of crime-programmes on TV,
viewers would thus get a glimpse of the lofty spirit
of altruism which activates the various groups
contending for the honor of bringing TV to the
people. They would, for instance, see and hear
Barwick, Q.C., putting the case for Amalgamated
Television Services Pty., Ltd., a company which
combines the interests of the “Sun-Herald” news-
papers ; Radios 2UE, 2GB and 2UW ; Artransa
(of London); and A.W.A. This company estimates
its annual costs at £250,000 and expects to lose
heavily for the first two years, but hopes to show
a small profit in the third year. After hearing (and
seeing) Barwick say that “applicants must ensure
that TV will never become the plaything of one
side or another in some internecine conflict,” and
that it was clear that the company was going to
lose money for a long time, viewers would probably
agree with him that “it would be foolish to go
on the public market and ask people to invest their
small holdings in a company doomed to lose
money.” They would also appreciate his assurance
that the public would be given a chance “when
the time arrives.” There would be mingled feelings
when Mr. Ogilvy, a director of Amalgamated
Television, assured the board that his- company
would co-operate with it “even at the expense of a
programme like Superman.”
Mr. Frank Packer, being essentially photogenic,
would probably be quite popular on the TV-screen,
especially in the part where he told the board that
it took no great skill to run a newspaper. Even
though it is likely that he was thinking of some
of his rivals who did not appear in person before
the board, viewers would probably take this remark
as an example of self-effacing modesty and would
therefore give all the more weight to his views
on matters, such as:—
TELEVISION: It is going to be a very import-
ant factor in building up the character of the
nation.
HOW TO JUDGE A NEWSPAPER: By its
accuracy, impartiality, alertness, courage on certain
issues and the emphasis it gives to important
matters.
COMICS: I don’t think they are entirely bad.
Invariably they teach children that crime does
not pay and the hero gains a victory over the
villain.
JOE PALOOKA: The best example of good-
ness and worthiness that I know.
SUPERMAN: Always trying to stop some evil.
Mr. Packer’s TV-company is to be called Television
Corporation, Ltd., and its shareholders are Con-
solidated Press, London “Daily Mail,” Philips
Electrical Industries, the Tivoli Circuit, Paramount
Films, 2SM and 2KY.
Unlike Amalgamated, this company believes
the public should be encouraged to invest “from
the start,” so as to give a “wide diffusion of. owner-
ship.” If, however, the public does not respond,
viewers would hear Mr. Packer say, his Consoli-
dated Press will be prepared to put up a further
£200,000. This would give Consolidated a
controlling-interest, but viewers won’t hear Mr.
Packer mention that. They will, however, hear
Mr. Packer admit that a recent issue of his “Sunday
Telegraph” contained matter which would have
been better left out. They’ll hear no such admission
from Mr. Gallery, general-manager of “Truth,”
which is also seeking a licence. Replying to
questions by Dr. Darling, a member of the board,
he will deny that “Truth” lowers its standards “by
pandering to the lower tastes of man,” and when
asked if he realises that there will have to be
different standards on TV, he will say: “Our
approach to television is different to our approach
to a newspaper. If a high standard is not
maintained, the licence would be in jeopardy.”
In addition to the newspaper-cum-radio
applicants, viewers would hear from Associated
Television Pty., Ltd., whose representatives would
say that they have already made TV films, and
have the land, the studios, key personnel, stock of
scripts and trained operators and are ready to go
right ahead. “The other applicants are like the
vulture that comes in for the kill; we have done
all the hunting so far.” They would hear from
Transcontinental Broadcasting Corporation’s Mr.
A. C. Paddison, who is associated with J. T. Lang’s
“Century” and thinks TV should be divorced from
newspaper-control. Mr. Paddison would plead that
there is scope for a small station needing less
capital than other applicants consider necessary.
So would Mr. Benson Greene.
Finally, viewers would see Dr. Evatt, claiming
to represent the A.L.P., the A.W.U. and “the aims
and aspirations of half the people of Australia.”
They would hear him admit that he has made no
estimate of cost and has no authority to expend
a penny, and claim that the A.W.U. has already
endorsed the application and that the A.L.P. will
consider it “next month.” The money, he would
say, would be raised by “a levy on all trade-unions,”
but that whether the levy would be compulsory is
yet to be decided. This would be bound to interest
a large number of viewers. Dr. Evatt would also
say that the granting of a licence to the A.L.P.
would guard the future of Australian writers,
artists and actors. This would, no doubt, impress
viewers—until they heard Hal Alexander, secretary
of Actors’ Equity, comment that “Labor” station
2KY “has done less than any other radio-station
in Australia to encourage Australian talent.”
At the conclusion of this time-machine TV-
programme, viewers would be able to amuse
themselves by trying to pick which of the
applicants would be granted the two licences, but
as that matter would already have been decided
there wouldn’t be much they could do about it.


“LOOKS LIKE THIS IS WHERE WE START ALL OVER AGAIN.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Obshenity
Like the elephant’s baby, which is a long
time in the making and then arrives in a
hurry, the Cahill Government’s Smutty
Books Bill was introduced in the New
South Wales Assembly last week and
treated by its sponsoring Minister, Gus
Kelly, as though the safety of the realm
depended on its immediate legitimation.
Requests from the Opposition that the
second reading should be deferred for
two weeks to allow a proper examination
of the bill were rejected, and the Minister
justified the measure on the ground that
other States had found it necessary to
pass similar legislation.
It is true that State Premiers agreed
some time ago to take action in regard
to crime- and horror-comics and
salacious sex “literature.” But the legis-
lation has been by no means uniform,
and the Victorian Act, from which the
Kelly bill seems to have derived its pro-
vision for licensing publishers, is the one
which has seemed the most repressive
and which has come in for the hottest
criticism. The registration or licensing of
publishers, with cancellation of licence
as a possible penalty for infractions of
the law, is a retrograde step, and the
pre-publication censorship which it will
impose on publishers cannot be anything
but bad for Australian writing.
One of Kelly’s colleagues, P. N. Ryan,
complained that “the work of the State’s
great education system and the churches
was to a degree nullified by literature
which is polluting our youth.” That
doesn’t say much for the ability and
influence of our educationists, our
churchmen or of the parents of the com-
munity. Another “Labor” member,
R. S. Maher, seeking to illustrate his
point that people today wanted to read
‘.‘sex” books, cited a strangely assorted
trio — Ulysses, Forever Amber and The
Cruel Sea. In so doing he did nothing to
allay suspicions—said by the Minister to
be groundless—that behind this purity-
purge lies a real danger to worth-while
literature.
It is rather ironic that while most of
the speeches and sermons against
“comics” stress their American origin,
the U.S. Postmaster-General has just
ordered the destruction of a rare copy
of the Greek classic Lysistrata on the
ground that its Norman Lindsay illustra-
tions are “indecent and lascivious.”
The book will probably survive on
appeal to the courts, and Australian
literature will probably survive the Kelly
bill, but that does not make it a good law.
Britain's Recovery
A remarkable crisis passed in Europe
and the British Commonwealth a few
days ago. The event was marked by a
speech by Mr. Butler, British Chancellor
of the Exchequer, who reported “the
first signs that sterling has recovered —
whether on official or other rates. We
have already taken the necessary turn.”
He admitted that whether “that turn
can be held I would not dare to pro-
phesy. But I am satisfied we have taken
it. By increasing production and pro-
ductivity we can hold the situation.”
The statement followed the raising of
the bank-rate to 4} per cent, (with an
immediate fall in prices on the Stock
Exchange), which was described in the
United States as a “courageous action
calculated to bring about a substantial
improvement in British terms of trade,”
while convertibility was admitted to have
been undoubtedly brought much nearer
by the realisation of a level in the
British stabilisation-fund, which would
enable the fund to control the immense
bulk of various kinds of blocked sterling
which exist.
Much of what is occurring may be
Greek to the ordinary newspaper-reader,
but the financial performance of Britain
and its present condition represent a
great achievement. A crowded nation
without the native means to feed itself,
confined in a small island, stripped of
its great colonies, started at the end of
1945 to rebuild its industries and trans-
port from the bottom up and replace
its foreign investments and industrial
equipment after having pledged the lot
and its national life in the cause of
world freedom. Now it already is fast
approaching a paramount position in
which it will be master of its own fate
once more.
In the process it has done much more
than its share in providing defence for
the free world, in rebuilding the world’s
shipping, in advancing the world’s tech-
niques in the development of new means
of power-production, in the invention of
new aircraft, in which it has been a long
jump ahead of the rest of the world,
and in atomic development. It has, dur-
ing the process, gone through a com-
pletely peaceful dual revolution which
has revolutionised the lives and stand-
ards and housing of its population,
and this at a time when every one of its
young men at a certain age was detached
from civilian life for defence for 18
months or more.
Its labor position is that its employ-
ables rose by 350,000 last year and yet
were not enough to meet the demand—this
year, according to Mr. Butler, there will
be “17jr per cent, more vacancies unfilled
than a year earlier.” In January the gap
was 29 per cent. As in Australia, this
little country, which owes everything to
energy, good sense, national sacrifice
and the will to work, is being driven to
expedients to keep down its imports and
level its consumer-goods demand off to
embrace only real essentials. Its policy is
summed up in the Chancellor’s words:
We want our rising standard of life,
but we must be sensible enough to take
our progress at a reasonable pace—it will
be surer in the end.
It seems that the United Kingdom is still
a star to which Australia can keep its
wagon hitched with very definite advan-
tages, apart from the pride of association
with such a stout and enduring national
fabric. It is short on primary production
from the soil, but it has a priceless com-
modity, which always has a market —the
will to work hard.
<tP
Floods and Parsimony
“Abdul Assiz”: With recurrence which
would be merely monotonous were it not
for the human suffering and tragedy in-
volved, the population of the lush Hunter
Valley has again been subjected to whole-
sale evacuation and possible ruin; the
once-prosperous towns of Maitland and
Singleton—to quote only two examples—-
are facing famine and pestilence follow-
ing great destruction.
If this were an act of God, little could'
have been done to avert the catastrophe
—which will have economic repercussions
throughout the Commonwealth —but it
happens to be the direct result of politic-
ally-inflicted parsimony, and the remedy,
unfortunately, lies in the hands of the
political masters of N.S.W.
In 1952 relief —at least as far as the
Hunter Valley was concerned —appeared
to be in sight. Newcastle Harbor, for the
first time in its history, was being
efficiently and economically dredged by
a Dutch firm, but the proffered extension
of the contract (which was advantageous,
as all good contracts should be, to both
parties) was not accepted Owing to a com-
bination of a lack of foresight and of
meanness by the Cahill Government.
Had the dredging been continued up-
stream along the Hunter River, as had
been originally promised, and particularly
if the dredging had been combined with
the construction of reaction-jetties, there
is little doubt that a very considerable
alleviation from the flood hazard would
have resulted, as has been found where
such measures have been adopted in other
countries.
This prophet has no wish to rub salt
into open wounds, but, as things stand, it
may do good to repeat the statement
printed in The Bulletin of October 8,
1952:
Newcastle looks anxiously to the
future, and Maitland still faces the threat
of destruction whenever the Hunter is
in spate, while Sydney, as long as the
Hexham loading-point remains silt-bound,
will suffer periodic shortages of gas-coal.
The race between Cahill and nuclear
power is on!
Neither the long-suffering Hunter
Valley—nor any of the other threatened
eastern or western river-catchments, for
that matter —should be forced to await
the outcome of the Cahill-nuclear con-
test. In any case, neither Common-
wealth nor State can afford the delay,
and realisation of the urgency of solving
the problem as expeditiously as possible
should not be blunted by the invariably
marvellous generosity - after - the - event
which would not have been called upon
had there not been that parsimony-before-
the-event, so characteristic of the political
masters of the State.
Mr. inticknap Converts
A story which would have caused more
interest 20 years ago when public opinion
was vigorous in dealing with such matters
was revealed in the N. S. Wales Legisla-
tive Assembly last week when Mr. Entick-
nap, Minister for Conservation, intro-
duced the Irrigation Act amendment bill.
The bill, inter alia, removes the power
of holders of perpetual leases in the Mur-
rumbidgee Irrigation Area to convert
their leaseholds to freehold. This power
Was given the lessees in 1934, when the
settlers, and particularly its returned-sol-
dier settlers, were suffering heavily from
the results of the depression and the
Stevens-Bruxner Government decided to
give them power to adopt a tenure which
would make their properties assets in the
eyes of financial authorities.
Mr. Enticknap emphatically made it
plain in his second-reading speech that
he and the Government were acting as
a matter of principle, that they believed
in the basic principle of perpetual lease
as opposed to freehold.
Mr. Lawson (Murray) asked him
whether it was true that he
had converted his own irrigation-
area perpetual lease to freehold, and,
while not denying it, Mr. Enticknap
showed no disposition to enlarge on the
subject. Neither did Mr. Cahill show
any interest in the matter. The Opposi-
tion, however, did, and Mr. Robson later
asked whether Mr. Enticknap would lay
the papers on the table. He said he
would —he “had nothing to fear.”
The papers, being duly produced showed
that he converted his leasehold to free-
hold in November, 1952.
Two years later, as Minister, he affirms
his objection to freehold being permissible
in the area in which he converted to free-
hold before the Government acted in the
matter.
It is clear from their attitude that
Mr. Cahill and Mr. W. Sheahan, the
Attorney-General, appear to look on
Mr. Enticknap’s proceedings as thor-
oughly meritorious. He has, as he says,
“nothing to fear.”
Degrees of Learning
“In the ACT”: Trends of higher learn-
ing in Australia, as disclosed in the uni-
versity statistics of the Commonwealth
Statistician, suggest a decline in arts, law,
commerce and science. The figures are
for degrees conferred, and it may be that
this trend will be reversed in the next
few years as present undergraduates
complete their courses.
The latest degree-figures are for the six
years to the end of 1953, and they show
that since the peak years for Australia
of 1950 (4506 degrees) and 1951 (4498
degrees) there has been a fall to the 1953
total of 3926. In 1948 there were only
2863 degrees conferred, as war-time under-
grads completed their university work,
and the following year there were 3607.
Arts degrees in 1953 numbered 929, and
of these 381 were conferred on women.
In 1950 there were 1304, of which 433
were for women. There were 200 law
degrees for 1953 (10 for women), com-
pared with 311 in 1951, and 472 bache-
lor-of-science degrees compared with the
peak of 703 in 1950. There were 282 com-
merce degrees (411 in 1950), and dental
degrees totalled 198, compared with 350
in 1951.
'The other side of the picture is pre-
sented with the steady patronage of the
numerous courses in engineering and
medicine. In 1953 there were 290 degrees
of bachelor-of-engineering conferred,
compared with 334, 323 and 328 in the
preceding three years. (In the 16 engineer-
ing-degree courses only two women have
taken degrees in the six years—two of
them gaining the B.E. in 1948.) The num-
ber of medical degrees in 1952 and 1953
was more than 900 in each year, com-
pared with about 600 in 1950 and 800
in 1951. This is partly due, of course,
to the longer time taken for this degree,
and the 1953 figure may be the post-war
peak.
The figures also include details of uni-
versity libraries and of revenues and ex-
penditures. These latter will already be
out of date in view of rising costs and
inevitably rising fees as a result. Revenue
income of all Australian universities in
1953 was £6,652,000, and capital income
was £1316, apart from £835,000 revenue-
income and £61,800 capital-income for
special purposes.
There is in Australia little tradition of
learning for learning’s sake. Universities
are regarded mostly as places for learning
a trade dignified with the name of a
profession, and even most of the arts
degrees are taken by those making teach-
ing their vocation. There is no leisure
class, and the higher branches of learning
are confined mostly to professorial ranks
and to small groups of researchers.
The Australian National University is
already doing something to fill the gap,
and will do more in the future, but its
growth has been disappointingly slow.
One more fact might be noted from the
statistical tables. In the six years 12 men
received divinity degrees.
The World Flood Looms
While Australia was still taking in the
bad news of the N.S.W. floods last week
an obscure news-item hinted at a flood
of the future which could sweep out of
existence the Australia we know. ’ It said
that United Nations statisticians had
found that the world’s population had
increased by more than 90,000,000
between 1950 and 1953.
We’ve grown a little too accustomed
to hearing dire warnings about “over-
crowded Asia” and (latterly) overcrowded
Europe, perhaps because we’ve been
hearing about them for a long while and
haven’t, so far, noted any burning desire
on the part of Asiatics to rush south.
All the same, a white nation holding
nearly 3,000,000 square miles of land,
itself numbering fewer than 10 million
and with its population concentrated in
less than a dozen centres while its vast
hinterland remains comparatively empty,
can hardly ignore the evident and rapid
population-increases, particularly to its
immediate north.
It scarcely needs telling that most of
that increase of 90-odd million was
mainly in Asia. Simple arithmetic gives,
at 30 million a year, 300 million in 10
years, or roughly one-eighth the total
world population of 1950, which was
2455 million.
Let’s carry it a bit further. The one-
eighth increase in 1960 will itself increase
by one-eighth, and, though calculating
what it will be in 1975 is a job for a
comptometer, the imagination begins to
stagger before an earth so teeming with
people that there’s hardly room to lie
down.
Perhaps it is the destiny of the human
race to populate itself off the earth rather
than H-bomb itself out of existence—
certainly the United Nations Organisa-
tion didn’t foresee what the conquest of
plague, the machine-age and the
enlightenment of dark places were likely
to do (and are evidently doing) to hasten
the great population problem. And
humanists, who haven’t the cold ruthless-
ness of those who would cut down the
excess populations, can find no alterna-
tives.
All the same, here we are in empty and
undeveloped Australia, no longer isolated
by distance, and looking over the equator
at 2537 million people, still multiplying,
who will have to burst out somewhere if
it goes on. We haven’t too much time
to get ready for the burst-out.
Flood-prevention
Amid all the naturally improvised
measures for the relief of victims and
the finger-on-lip waiting by helpless
towns to see if it will be their turn next
to be washed away with most of their
assets, the fact becomes clearer every day
that over a few decades a largerscale
scheme which prevented floods would
pay for itself again and again. In
N. S. Wales flood-prevention goes with
power-development, the cleaning-out of
river channels, the creation of irrigation
areas and inland-navigation routes.
Sir Earle Page has all his life fought for
such a scheme on the Clarence and adja-
cent waters. His views have been recom-
mended again and again by engineers.
But Governments, even his own Govern-
ments, have consistently chosen to regard
him as a crank in the matter, and his plans
have been by-passed for infinitely more
expensive ones which would take infinitely
longer to complete.
The Page scheme for the Clarence
seems to provide the prototype for plans
of the same sort along the whole length
of the East Australian littoral for 200
miles inland at least, and anybody who
has seen the great Montgomery Canal
in the Punjab, which runs for 300 miles,
an artificial river feeding water across the
plain to 10,000,000 people, would not feel
hopeless about what could be done in the
interior if the Darling and some other
rivers were canalised with the heavy
equipment now available.
The Clarence River, Earle Page thinks,
is controllable for floods because three-
fifths of the watershed of the system
drains through the Clarence Gorge, which
is flanked by steep mountains between
which, at the junction of two main tribu-
taries, a high dam could be built in which
the product of four or five floods could
be stored and used for “generating water-
power, improving navigation and pro-
viding water-supply and irrigation for
78,000 acres of agricultural land.” In
1944 an expert committee appointed by
the Chifley Government in conjunction
with the N. S. Wales and Queensland
Governments recommended the plan. A
subsequent committee appointed by the
N. S. Wales Government recommended
(i Continued on next page )


the construction of a 269 ft. dam to im-
pound over 6,000,000 acre-feet,' equal to
the output of three big floods. But catch
the Cahills adopting a scheme which
might advertise a political opponent!
Rather let the whole country drown.
Dr. Page has pointed out consistently
for years that the effect of floods depends
on the last feet of rise in rivers, plus the
suddenness with which it occurs. If that
can be controlled and the water let away
gradually instead of in a wild and un-
expected rush the danger of wholesale
damage ceases to exist.
There are, of course, obstacles. It is
doubtful whether the Snowy River pro-
jects would ever be finished if completion
depended on Australian labor in its pre-
sent mood and if foreign contractors
and workmen had not been imported in
quantity. Left to the Cahill Government,
the proud “builders” of the Quay Rail-
way (if it ever is finished), the last flood
would probably have washed Australia
out to sea before a scheme like the
Clarence scheme could be carried out.
The Glenbawn Dam on the Hunter, a
minor work by American and European
standards, was started in 1946. It began
level with a scheme in France about five
times the size which was working in
three years or so. The timetable at Glen-
bawn, as pointed out by a correspondent
of the “S. M. Herald,” Mr. Keith
McKenzie, the other day, was estimated
in 1946 to be likely to take 18 months to
complete and to cost £1,500,000. It took
“eight years of Government-stroke to get
a start on the main wall of the dam” at
a cost of £4,000,000 to date. It is now
estimated that the job will cost £9,000,000
to complete, and, of course, margins will
send it up a good deal more. Nobody is
optimist enough even to guess how long
the simple and urgent job will take.
POLITICAL POINTS
Next Monday the A.L.P. conference
will begin in Hobart. The Doc.’s faction
seems to have the numbers to control it,
but his followers are more united in their
opposition to “The Movement” than in
admiration of Evatt’s leadership. Mon-
day’s meeting won’t be the end of the
fight for control of the party ; it will
merely be the beginning of the next
phase.
• •
According to Rylah, Deputy-Leader of
the Opposition in the Victorian Parlia-
ment, Melbourne trams need a good
shake-up. Why not take a few of them
over to New South Wales and give them
a ride in the Sydney trams? They’re
guaranteed to give anything a shake-up.
• •
Not flood but drought threatens Vic-
toria this week, and the water-authorities
aren’t doing a thing about it. Quite right,
too ; the threatened strike of brewery-
employees is no concern of theirs.
• «
When the Privy Council freed inter-
state road-transport of the iniquitous
penalties imposed by States trying to
bolster their railways, Playford’s Gov-
ernment rushed through an Act com-
pelling all vehicles of more than 2\ tons
coming from other States to take out
South Australian registration. Now it has
bounced back—Victorian farmers on the
S.A. border can’t get their produce to
near-by S.A. towns without paying this
extra money. Jude, S.A. Minister for
Roads, told some Pinnaroo traders he’d
have to “consult the Victorian Govern-
ment before any concessions could be
considered.” Concessions! In a Federa-
tion of free States one registration should
be enough.
• •
According to Holt (M.H.R.) “The Writ-
ing is on the wall for Dr. Evatt; he is
living on borrowed time.” True enough,
but isn’t that the sort of time all poli-
ticians live on? The only difference is
the amount of the loan.
• •
A margarine-maker was prosecuted in
a N.S.W. court for making margarine
in excess of the quota (fixed by State law
to protect dairyfarmers against the com-
petition of margarine). The case went to
the High Court on the ground that the
N.S.W. law infringed the free inter-State
trade section of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution (Section 92). But the High Court
held that, -as the N.S.W. law prohibited
the making in that State of not more
than a certain quantity of margarine, any-
thing made in excess of the quota was a
prohibited product and anything pro-
hibited from being produced could not
be traded inter-State.
• •
All Commonwealth Cabinet Ministers
should spend a few weeks looking
thoroughly into their departments. Some
sprawling departmental activities look as
though they are getting out of hand.
• •
One of the best jokes in Tasmania’s
recent election-campaign happened at a
migrant hostel in Launceston. Early in
the day canvassers for one of the parties
placed how-to-vote-cards in the letter-
boxes of the flats at the hostel. Later in
the day two young fellows and a girl
went along the row, took out the cards
and replaced them with cards of the rival
party. Apparently neither band of can-
vassers was aware that not one person
in the 48 flats for German migrants was
entitled to a vote!
• •
Accusing the Federal Government of a
niggardly attitude towards flood-relief
Evatt says this is “in direct contrast to its
lavish spending on Ministerial jaunts
overseas.” Oh, Mr. Pot!
• o
The by-election for Flinders in the
Queensland Assembly takes place next
Saturday when the electors of that far-
western electorate will decide whether
they are sufficiently staunch “Labor” sup-
porters to support Frankie Forde. Forde’s
Hughenden meeting, with Premier Gair
as guest speaker, dispelled any belief that
it would be a walkover.
• «
Treasurers in all States should be in-
terested in the V.R.C.’s plan to counter
the 5000 s.p.-men operating in Victoria.
It proposes to provide course-bookmakers
with hundreds of phones which would
channel s.pi-betting into the 2 per cent,
turnover-tax' and benefit Government
revenue to the extent of £1,600,000. The
police say that at least 15,000 telephones
are tied up with illicit bookmaking, and
that some bookies have as many as
twenty numbers.
• •
Playford’s Government is to give
South Australian wheatgrowers sole
rights to set up a wheat bulk-handling
system there. But if there is undue delay
or the wheatgrowers do not sufficiently
support the scheme, then the Government
will have to do the job itself. It will,
moreover, continue as the boss of port-
and loading-facilities. Though the S.A.
Wheat and Woolgrowers’ Association will
sponsor the scheme, any grower will have
the right to send his wheat through the
bins and storages. Playford insists that
two of the nine directors shall be Govern-
ment men and that bins shall comply with
official specifications. The recruiting of
growers has begun.
• •
For the Melbourne trade-unionist at
present choosing his “Labor” party is
THE HANDS OF NUCLEAR TIME
like choosing his beer—he can take his
pick of “new” or “old.”
o o
Kevin Ellis has been selected as Liberal
candidate for Coogee at the next elec-
tion for the N. S. Wales Assembly. Ellis
won the seat at a by-election in 1948 —
the time when the Libs, captured three
seats in succession from “Labor.” They
were Coogee, Concord and Kogarah.
All three have since reverted to “Labor,”
but their present occupants may well be
feeling the 1948 breeze blowing down the
back of their necks as general-election
time draws near.
• •
One of the arguments advanced by the
Doc. in support of his application for a
TV-licence for “Labor” was that with-
out it his party would not get adequate
opportunity to put its viewpoint before
the people. In Victoria the faction the
Doc. leads in the current “Labor” fight
recently gained control of the “Labor”
radio-station. The rival faction asked for
an opportunity to make a statement over
the station to get its viewpoint to the
people. Did the champion of free speech
and of minorities insist that they got it?
He did—like ’ell!
e •
New-car registrations in Australia
during 1954 reached 142,733, almost
20,000 more than in 1951, the year with
the previous highest total,
In the Brisbane Bankruptcy Court a
man who is £13,000 in arrears with his
income tax admitted losing £24,000 in
gambling in less than five years, and said
that in a game of cards in a Charleville
hotel he lost £4500 in three hours to a
man who sold fish-bait in Sydney. It
looks as if the Taxation Commissioner
has been using the wrong bait.
• •
Unless there’s a change of plans two
teams of Victorian delegates will make
the trip to the Federal A.L.P. conference
on March 14, each crowd claiming to be
the only genuine article. The fairest
thing might be to let them fight it out
under Rafferty’s rules, the losers to
accept banishment to Port Arthur.
• •
“Nakh”: The “Keilor Skull,” found
15 years ago near the Maribyrnong
River, which runs through Melbourne,
has been proved to be one of the oldest
aboriginal skulls yet discovered. ‘The
new American radio-carbon method of
dating fossils puts it at 9000 years. If
its owner could come back he would pro-
bably say “My earliest recollection is of
the time when the Melbourne City Coun-
cil got out its first plans for the Desgraves-
street subway.”
• •
The Sydney daily press has attacked
Treasurer Fadden for having offered a
mere £lOO,OOO to N. S. Wales flood-relief
funds. Fadden says that it is merely a
preliminary cqntribution for urgent relief
of individual cases and that the whole
matter will be considered later in the
light of ultimate requirements and
damage, and, in any case, N.S.W. alloca-
tions will be matched pound-for-pound.
The press should know this would be the
natural mode of proceeding, but its on-
slaughts have no doubt been dictated by
the usual consideration —having made
them they will later feel justified in claim-
ing that they “forced” the Common-
wealth to make extra contributions.
• •
Communist-party official Clayton,
“wanted” by the Petrov Commission for
over nine months, last week notified the
commission through his solicitor that he
would be available on Monday for ques-
tioning because he wished to answer a
number of “highly defamatory allega-
tions” published about him. When a
man summoned to appear before three
judges who are inquiring into allegations
of espionage against his country chooses
instead to “go into smoke,” he can
scarcely expect poems of praise to be pub-
lished about him. Anyway, he’ll be given
full opportunity to answer questions;
that’s what the commission has been
wanting him to do since last June.
• •
Asked to lift the ban which forbids
discussion on radio and TV of topics
about to be debated in Parliament,
Churchill refused, saying:
I am a convinced and obstinate opponent
of the change. The liberty of the individual
must be sustained. It must be sustained
against the tyrant, it must be sustained
against the mass, and it must be sustained
against the machine.
The old boy didn’t explain how the
liberty of the individual is being sus-
tained by prohibiting the individual from
stating an opinion over the air.
• •
When Menzies landed in Greece Athens
newspapers hoped he would “concern
himself” with the Cypriot Union-with-
Greece issue. But isn’t the other chap
the “champion of small nations”?
• •
Victorian political parties are mid-Vic-
torian in their attitude towards Sunday
papers. “Labor” has refused to alter the
law which forbids their publication and
the L.C.P. has just turned down a sug-
gestion that it should undertake to change
the law if it wins the next election. All
other mainland States now have Sunday
papers and Melbourne people allegedly
buy 100,000 of the Sydney sheets every
week.
• •
“X.S.”: A dangerous criminal cut his
way out of Pentridge with a hacksaw
sewn into a new mattress that had just
been served him. The resultant inquiry
discussed everything but the obvious
remedy cell-bars of hardened-steel
which would defy files and hacksaws.
• •
Bhopal Lodha, an Indian public
servant, was suspended. The shock sent
him into a coma which lasted ten years.
He is now out of it and suing the Govern-
ment for £3750 arrears in pay. Australia
would be in strife if every public servant
in a coma decided to sue when he came
out of it.
• •
Fadden has promised to consider
granting old-age pensioners more for
burial expenses. Does it mean the cost-
of-living is lessened by reducing the
cost-of-dying?
• •
A Hungarian court has just sentenced
a State coalmine-manager to life-
imprisonment for selling 830 tons of
coal for private gain. In Australia he
probably would have been given a rise
in accordance with the margins award
of the moment and a parking-space at
Parliament House.
• •
Seventeen New Guinea students who
completed the six-year course at Sogeri
education-centre have received their
teaching-certificates, and will be posted
to schools throughout the territory. The
centre is now training more than 200
students in courses which reach the
equivalent of the Australian intermediate,
with an additional year for teacher-train-
ing. Prizes have been given by native
organisations and villages, and some
students have gone to Suva for medical
training.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
T GOT into England, France, Austria,
and Italy with collectively far less
trouble than it took to get back into my
own country.
Going into England there were no
health-checks, and the Customs people
just took a glance at the outside of my
luggage—no forms to fill-in, or any-
thing ; though they’re by no means in-
competent, as many a would-be smuggler
knows. One of their neat little ways is to
travel innocently among passengers on
the boat-train from Tilbury to St. Pan-
eras ; they gather-in quite a few smart
people who can’t help boasting how they
beat the Customs men.
My luggage was not opened at the
French, Austrian, or Italian frontiers,
and my health was taken for granted. The
jackbooted, uniformed, revolvered Aus-
trian and Italian police look dramatic
enough, especially in the early dawn, but
a quick glance at my passport and a stamp
with an automatic stamping-machine
sufficed.
Homewarding to Australia, there were:
(a) a long Customs-declaration to be
filled, going, as is customary in this coun-
try, into nearly all my family history;
( b ) a medical examination before reach-
ing Fremantle, which took up tiresome
hours on deck ; (c) a passport examina-
tion at Fremantle; {d) another medical
examination before reaching Sydney
(though theoretically Australia could
have been riddled with smallpox by pas-
sengers disembarking at Adelaide and
Melbourne); (e) the final Customs check
at Sydney, plus all kinds of exit-cards,
forms and whatnots.
Some of it may be necessary, but we
Australians do love our expensive
formalities. —“Dee.”
❖ ❖
“Front Counter”: An account from
The Bulletin for 17s. lOd. was paid by
a cheque for £l7 10s. Immediate reaction
was to return it, but then the drawer’s
address was noted —Keepit Dam! Very
sorely tempted.
v ❖ ❖
“Metax”: Medical assurance that my
heart showed no signs of failing to func-
tion for the time being did not convince
me as strongly as the fact that on seeing
the month’s grocery-bill for our family
of three to be over fifty-quid I didn’t
succumb.
*l* ♦♦♦
“Bullswool”: Spike Jones, who with his
City Slickers will take part in Melbourne’s
Moomba Festival next month, has in-
sisted that he and the boys must ride in
the big procession on a really old-time
fire-engine. He hasn’t stated the reason,
but it is probably as good as his music.
The Metropolitan Fire Brigade couldn’t
help ; neither could the National Museum.
An appeal was then broadcast. Walhalla,
in Gippsland, once a big goldmining
centre and now almost a ghost-town,
offered a suitable relic. So did two other
towns, Stawell and Tarnagulla. The fes-
tival .committee now realises that it won’t
be so hard to keep up with the Joneses
after all.
♦j*
“Kitty”: These real-estate blokes cer-
tainly let themselves go when it comes
to selling your home. The following
extract appeared in Brisbane “Courier
Mail” (14/2/’55):
ST. LUCIA. £3BOO. As fascinating as a
demi-mondaine, as solid as the British Con-
stitution itself. Think of all you would desire
in a home: cavity-brick construction, tiled
roof, septic, separate lounge, a kitchen to
inspire your culinary art, hot-water service,
garage. This has all these plus wall-to-wall
carpets. Literally nestling on superb
grounds. For this Heaven CAN wait
❖ ❖ ❖
“Melbn”: The cenotaph in the fore-
court to the Shrine of Remembrance in
Melbourne, dedicated last year by the
Queen before it was finished, is now com-
pleted and unveiled. It is a plain pillar
surmounted by three colossal figures
representing the three Services bearing the
bier of one of the fallen ; all carved from
an immense block of basalt bluestone
weighing 90 tons. The Shrine itself looks
dignified and lovely, now that time has
' put a patina op it, and the interior is
wonderfully impressive. The form is
good—it was taken by the two Digger
architects (to whom General Monash
gave the first-prize) from the tomb of
Mausolus, King of Caria, who died 353
b.c. and for whom a magnificent
sepulchre was raised by his wife Artemisia
at Halicarnassus. The symbolic figures of
Victory and Peace which flank the Shrine,
and which were carved by the late Paul
“A new edition of Henry Lawson? What , is HE still Writing .”
Montford, are somewhat academic, but
at least he went to the zoo to get the
models for his lions. I wonder where the
Diggers will think the sculptor of the
figures on the pillars went for his models,
They remind me of a rickshaw-coolie I
had in Singapore whose legs were the
same shape all the way down and so in-
flated that his toes had vanished and his
feet flapped along the street like flails,
Their almost completely featureless faces
express neither pity nor sorrow, nor even
strain. I doubt if anybody like them
could have been found in the Army, the
Navy or the Air Force.
“And they never even put their hand out!”
“Alban”: In its stop-press column, the
London magazine “Prediction” has the
following intimation:
Owing to unforeseen circumstances W. J.
Ousby’s next article on “Yoga” had to be
held over until next month.
❖ ❖
“Vingter”: They were a New Austra-
lian couple on a fairly quiet Melbourne
bayside beach on a Sunday morning in
the latest heatwave. He wore trunks, but
the lass was fully clothed. For a few
moments she watched him after he had
entered the water, then, impetuously
shedding her dress and clad in only a
brassiere and a pair of rather solid black
knickers, she followed him. The disport-
ing couple, or rather the feminine half
of it, immediately became the centre of
attention and source of comment. The
feminine part of the crowd was at least
outwardly scandalised, while the males
gazed long and admiringly. The most
patent feminine resentment was that
registered on the features of lasses far
more inadequately concealed in Bikinis
and near-Bikinis ; perhaps unchivalrously,
I gathered the impression that the chagrin
was seated in the fact that the collec-
tive masculine gaze was ignoring them.
It struck me also that we male mortals
are queer creatures when a pleasing piece
of femininity comparatively overclad in
garments which we see for the most part
only in shop-windows has a greater mag-
netism for us than an equally-comely lass
in far more revealing attire whose display
has become commonplace. I like to think
that this trait shows that we are more
curious than libidinous.
ijt
“Sandy”: A salesman’s error recently
left a big bookshop in debt to me by one
shilling. Blushing for his firm’s policy,
a salesman got out: “You’ll have to cut
it out with something.” Scrooge-like
policy for a big shop! Did they hope
I’d build on the bob and buy a Britan-
nica ? I settled for a brace of pencils.
But what of bigger errors and bigger
refunds? Is the Britannica then the only
way out?
♦jt +-<•
“Irving”: Unk White’s joke-block
(B. 9/2/’55) of the elderly connoisseur’s
cinemascope-picture of the scantily-clad
lass recalled an amenities-officer taken to
task by a brigadier who had noticed that
the recreation-huts in the training-camp
were regularly unused while the canteen
walls were usually bulging out. Two
nights later the brig, observed that the
largest rec.-hut was overcrowded, and,
curious to see in what manner the ameni-
ties-bloke had so patently reacted to the
pep-talk, strolled over to investigate. His
first impression, that some particularly
attractive film was being screened, was
quickly discarded when he saw that a
series of nudes and, near-nudes, each of
a dimension that covered the entire wall
of the hut, was being projected by the
amenities-bloke, using a scrounged epidia-
scope and a library drawn from the pic-
ture-pages of “perv” magazines. We
got a new amenities-bloke very shortly
afterwards, and the canteen regained its
former popularity as Bacchus triumphed
over art.
* *
“Frescott” : Recently I was lucky enough
to have a quarter-share in a ticket in the
Queensland lot’ry which won a £4O prize.
When I went to collect my tenner the
agent collected 2d. stamp-duty from me.
On being asked if I was paying the stamp-
duty for the other three winners he said,
“Oh, no; they’ll have to pay 2d. each
as well.” As the total stamp-duty on a
£4O transaction is 3d., the Government
Stamps Office rake-off is sd. on every
£4O prize won in shares ; and there are
thousands of them each year. The same
thing would apply to shares in £5O or
£lOO prizes in shares, only the rake-off
would be larger.
* ❖ ❖
“Nunk”: From the Orient Co.’s
general-manager in Australia, Mr. John D.
Bates, comes a copy of a radio-message
from the Orsova returning from San
Francisco:
Orsova set new merchant-ship record
San Francisco-Honolulu (Stop) Orsova
arrived Diamond Head Honolulu 0800 hours
February 22 (Stop) Actual steaming time
from Frisco lightship 89 hours (Stop) This
cut three hours off previous record American
ship HF Alexander established 1921 (Stop)
Orsova made fastest days run since trials
in 24 hours ended noon February 21 (Stop)
Steamed 585 sea miles average speed 23
point 88 knots (Stop) Overall average Frisco
Honolulu 23 point 295 knots (Stop)....
Stop! Stop! !
♦♦♦ ♦> ♦>
“Scat”: I suppose most of us read one
or more comic-strips in our favorite
daily—l remember a professor’s allusion
to Blondie and Dagwood —but I thought
most of us left the lurid weekly “comics”
to the kids. Not so a pretty blonde sitting
in front of me in the bus, engrossed in
the adventures of fantastically dressed
spacemen. I grinned at the studious-
looking young man beside me, who, I
noticed, had also had a peek at the
comic. He grinned back at me. I whis-
pered, “What do you think of that?” He
looked a bit puzzled, had another glance
at the comic, then shook his head and
whispered back, “I don’t know —I haven’t
read that one.”
♦> ♦>
“Bellfield”: The feminine diner
accidentally knocked a glass salt-shaker
off the table to the concrete floor, where
it shattered. Quickly she dropped her
newspaper over the wreckage, then
covertly turned -her eyes around to see
whether the mishap had been observed.
Only one waitress was in sight, and she
busy taking an order at a distant table.
With the paper the lady swiftly brushed
the fragments well under the table and
swept the scattered, telltale salt after
them. All evidence removed, she bobbed
up again, complacent innocence on her
face. Suddenly her expression changed.
Realisation? Horror? Apprehension?
She looked around guiltily, then ducked
right under the table. A moment later
she surfaced again. A little spray of salt
went flying over her left shoulder.
AN ORDINARY DAY
In the ordinary way. Of an ordinary day.
Fragments like brown-paper peas. At
the mercy of the breeze.
Say “Good morning, how are you?’’ to
the fellow in the queue.
You superior to him. Him superior to
you.
Rub against a dozen lives. A dozen men.
A dozen wives.
A dozen woes ride in the heat. A dozen
hearts give beat for beat.
Two dozen eyes to skim the sky. Two
dozen ears hear trams go by.
A dozen minds to reason out what the
headlines are about.
Look upon a dozen schemes. A dozen
ways. A dozen dreams.
A dozen weeklies to be ticked. A dozen
courses to be picked.
A dozen quids. A dozen pays. A dozen
Fridays on their ways.
A dozen paths where shadows lurk. A
dozen bundled off to work.
Bits of this and bits of that. Falling
softly, pitter-pat.
All the fragments form a plan, make up
the mystery of Man.
Dozen in the 8.03. Shall go on making
history.
In the ordinary way. Of an ordinary day.
QUEENSLAND.
KEVIN MCAULIFFE.


A FRIEND going on a world-tour went
to the U.S. authorities for passport
and other necessary traveller’s items.
“What’s your nationality?” they asked.
“Australian,” said he. “Where was your
father born?” “In Australia.” “Mm,
what about your grandfather?” “Oh, he
came over from Ireland when he was a
kid.” “Ah, Irish, eh?” And “Irish” they
wrote on his passport. Only aborigines
are officially recognised as Australians by
the Yanks. —“Pat.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“C.A.L.”: The joke-block of an office-
boy asking his prospective employer for
"Honestly, dear, I'd do the same for you or any other girl."
an entertainment-allowance (B. 26/1/’55)
a n< D S u a fig ment of imagination,
A Perth manager, though wondering,
accepted without comment the time his
boy took to run messages in the city, till
he saw him entering a newsreel-theatre,
Aiter allowing the lad a half-hour’s en-
jovment he conferred with the theatrette-
manager, and the youth, deeply interested
in a Crime Does Not Pay,” was startled
o see a slide flash on the screen inform-
he TJ was wa hted urgently in the
estibule. He made a hasty exit, to be
a ? u , e ky an irate boss who pro-
ceeaea to dress him down for mixing
business with pleasure. The lad explained
that the cares of the office became so
great during the day that he needed to
relax occasionally to give his brain a
rest. So convincing was his tale that in
the end the boss made it a term of employ-
ment for the lad that with every Friday
change-of-programme he could attend
the one-hour show, his expenses to be
paid out of petty cash.
* ❖
“Narumee”: While the Berne Ruman-
ian Legation was in the news, the
struggles of radio-announcers over “Swiss
police” usually ended in either “Swish
police” or “Swith poleeth.” It took me
back to when “The Leith police dismisseth
us” was largely used, in English police-
stations, as part of sobriety-tests. Disre-
spectful rumor said that most convictions
arose not from the fruitless efforts of
hapless merrymakers to contort their
tongues round the twister, but because
the natural reaction of suspects was the
indignant protest: “But, Sergeant, I
couldn’t say that even if I was sober!”
+> * ♦>
“C. 8.”: On the eve of its 90th birthday,
the “Australian Journal” is being sold by
Massina and Co., Melbourne, who estab-
lished it, to Southdown Press. It started
with a BuLLETiN-like policy of encourag-
ing Australian writers ; one of its earliest
commissions was to Marcus Clarke, for
a serial called “For the Term of His
Natural Life.” It never advertised, but
was always to be found on railway-station
bookshops and had for a long time a
large circulation.
+> +J+
“Honest Frank”: More on the “clear-
as-mud” exchange-racket. (1) Just
handled a bank-johnny’s cheque from a
distant district marked “o/c f.o.e. (payee’s
town).” No exchange was charged when
I paid this cheque in. Who takes the rap
in this case? (2) A wealthy grazier’s
cheques on another town are f.o.e. at
other towns. Who’s the sucker this lime?
Finally, if exchange is a charge made by
the bank for their collection-service, as
my accountant friend says, why should
it cost more in exchange to deal with a
£lOO cheque than a tenner? There’s a
catch somewhere in this little game of
catch-as-catch-can !
“X.S.”: The merriment was at its
height and it was well past six-o’clock
in our mid-Victorian local in Victoria
when the police-sergeant walked in and
said sternly to Bung: “If you don’t put
your lights out the next time I come
round I’ll crime you.” There was an
awed silence for a second, and then a
voice piped up from amongst the
drinkers: “That’s all right, Sergeant, but
the next time you come round to my
surgery with an aching tooth I’ll tell you
to keep it till the morning.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Smeaton”: Survey-peg destruction,
removal or mutilation earned the death-
penalty in Australia’s early history. In
our jobs as building-surveyors or sworn
valuers, it is a boon to be able to work
from “well-driven” survey-pegs. It is, in
fact, imperative that the survey-peg set
at a datum-point by a licensed surveyor
be intact when the valuer starts his work.
Last week at Sunshine, a suburb within
11 miles of Melbourne G.P.0., we had
a fruitless search for two hours up and
down a formed and kerbed road for an
allotment-number. Not one of the 14
householders in this modern street knew
their lot-numbers. Their pegs had all
vanished. Welcome the day when nit-
wits and vandals who wantonly destroy
or pull out these builders’ and valuers’
guides are not merely heavily fined but
given jail-sentences.
❖ * ❖
“Jock”: “Sidav’s” reference to Henry
Lawson (B. 23/2/’55) reminds me. In
his declining days during the early
’twenties, Lawson lived in our (North
Sydney) area. He was a warm favorite
among the kids, and was always giving
them pennies. One day a red-headed
urchin put it to Henry thus: “Hey, Mr.
Lawson, can’t you give us something
besides pennies?” “Why?” asked a
somewhat startled Henry. The answer:
“Well, y’see, when we get pennies, Mum
pinches ’em for the gas-meter.” After
that it was ha’pennies—and everyone was
satisfied.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: Melbourne’s recent spell
of tropical humidity has not lightened
housewives’ burdens. Was passing a back-
yard heavily festooned with limp, damp
clothes, when a disconsolate voice floated
over the fence to me: “Two shirts a day
it is now, for all four of them —one for
work and one for evening dates. And
they’re not just wet with perspiration,
dear —they’re sopping with sweat!”
■ijf
“Chevroford”: According to the
National Safety Council, a chain dangling
from a petrol-chariot along the road is
a cure for car-sickness, though it is un-
able to give the reason. As drivers of
petrol-tankers' know, a car, insulated
from the earth by its tyres, becomes by
induction electrically charged and is thus
a travelling condenser, but a chain trail-
ing along the road discharges the elec-
tricity. The explanation, then, may lie
in the fact that some passengers are more
sensitive to electrical charges than others.
This, however, doesn’t apply to an aunt
of mine. She invariably gets sick when
she travels in a private car, but doesn’t
get nausea in buses, though they are
notorious electricity-conductors, as any-
body knows who has ever put his foot on
the ground while hanging on to the rail
of one of Melbourne’s two-deckers.
$
“Pip Tok”: Among the pranks played
by newspaper-stylists is the gradual
restriction of the meaning of the word
“civilian.” In my schooldays we were
taught that a civilian was one who was
not a member of the regular armed forces
of the Crown. Shortly after the Kaiser’s
war, a Queensland judge sternly reproved
a police witness for referring to a
member of the public as a civilian.
“You’re a civilian yourself,” was the
judge’s blunt comment. Nowadays,
according to press-reports of police-court
proceedings, police witnesses make the
same bloomer. I thought the limit had
been reached last winter when a local
daily, describing a riot at a football-
match, declared that the referee and
players had been attacked by civilians.
But the same paper went one worse this
month when reporting that a police-court
defendant, charged with causing a dis-
turbance on a metropolitan railway-
station, was overpowered by “two porters
and a civilian.”
♦♦♦ <4 ❖
“Fasa”: Today’s A.B.C. country-
hour say-so on “f.a.q.” touched a spring.
Struck this commercial term in the
Intermediate. Easy money . , . the
wheat-scandal commission was sitting.
Not so, however, to a fellow-student. He-
had heard of “f.0.r.” and f.0.b.,” but
“f.a.q.”? Not a clue! But he had a
shot at it: “Free at the Quay.”
EASY PHILOSOPHY
“Every man-about-the-house knows the
frustration that can come from a job not very
well carried out. He often sees the humor of
the situation later.” —Sydney “Daily Mirror.’’
It is different if you do things
That aren’t brilliantly successful,
So long as they occur outside the
house ,
You can mess-up quite a few things
Of the boss’s, yet distressful
You needn’t feel at all. And if your
nous
And your know-how aren’t quite equal
To the task, you’ye offered gladly
Your neighbor’s car to strip and then
to spray
And a botched job is the sequel —
Well, although he takes it badly,
You can start laughing loudly right
away!
But your well-developed humor
Will riot function quite so quickly
If, on a job inside, and for yourself,
By a calculation-bloomer
And an urge to do it slickly,
You cut the timber too short for the
shelf.
And immediate mirth-suppression
You will practise, too, with ardor
When, chipping putty from the win-
dow-sash.
Over-eager for progression,
You chip just a little harder,
And then you hear the tinkle, tinkle,
crash !
Kitchen-lino, you are cutting ?
Rather tricky, that’s admitted.
You cut SO carefully—no overlap.
In the job the “strife” keeps butting.
Anxious moment: has it fitted ?
Dead in the centre you’ve a three-inch
gap! .
It is bad form, I’d inform you,
To feel aught but deep frustration
Right away. But o’er the memory of
it pore.
You will find that it will warm you.
And you’ll have THIS consolation :
Thai late that night with laughter
you will roar.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
TICK TOCK, DONG DONG
Sydney Town Hall’s 70-year-old clock
lately had to be repaired. Trouble was
borers eating into the beams supporting
the clock.
In 1945 a rocket fired in exuberance
during victory celebrations struck the
Town Hall clock in Melbourne. It put
the big timepiece out of action.
Paddington Town Hall, Sydney, has a
clock which does not contain the usual
numerals; instead, it features the name
“Edwardus The VII.” Critics say that in
Latin it should read “Eduardus VII.”
Canterbury Town Hall (also Sydney),
built in 1888, has a clock-tower 65ft. high,
but no clock. What’s more, local authori-
ties say it was never meant to have one.
Bendigo Town Hall (Vic.) also runs
to an inspiring clock-tower minus clock.
Perth Town Hall, in the Tudor style,
was constructed by convict labor, and the
clock when installed cost only £399. It
was first set in motion in June, 1870.
The clock at Newcastle Town Hall
(N.S.W.) is in a tower 144 ft. high. Set
up in December, 1929, it has four 10ft.
dials.
Brisbane City Hall clock has a tuneful
set of Westminster bells —the hour-bell
weighs 4j tons. There are four 15ft. clock-
dials in the 302 ft.-high tower.
The peal of bells connected to the clock
in Ballarat Town Hall (Vic.) cost £l3OO,
and were first rung on Christmas Day,
1871. The smallest of the eight bells
weighs 6cwt. The bells honor a former
Duke of Edinburgh.
The Albert Tower (named after Queen
Victoria’s Prince Consort) at Adelaide
Town Hall has three clock-faces each
7ft. Bin. in diameter. The clock has a
peal of eight bells, which chime morning
and evening each Sunday. . Former Lord
Mayor of Adelaide Sir L. Bonython pre-
sented the clock, which was started in
February, 1935.
The clock in the 12 sft.-high tower at
Glenelg Town Hall (S.A.) was also a
present —from Thomas King, a former
mayor. Costing £l5O, it was set up in
1882, and unveiled in 1884.
CLOCKER.


Keep in
good
SPIRITS
(ytloitde
pre-war sTR
en gth
HOSPITAL
b *andy
PERSONAL ITEMS
Bernard Sunley, chairman of directors
of Britain’s biggest manufacturer of
heavy earth-moving equipment, is visiting
Australia to see how his products are
going in this part of the world. If he
tries to trace the lot he’ll have to do more
than a bit of moving himself —the firm’s
gear is shifting great hunks of Australia
in projects as far apart as King Island
in Bass Strait and Rum Jungle in the
Northern Territory (the Snowy River
Scheme and the Eildon Weir are, of
course, included). Sunley’s parent com-
pany is John Blackwood Hodge, Ltd.,
of London, but there are 26 pups, in-
cluding an Australian youngster.
• •
New commodore of the P. and O. fleet,
G. S. Forrest, master of flagship Arcadia
(lately arrived in Australia), was born in
Newcastle-on-Tyne 56 years back. He
has sailed with the one company since
he joined it in 1915; spent 10 years on
the India and China run, and 20 coursing
to these parts. Like many of his kind, he
hopped into the Navy in War 11, convoy-
ing in the North Sea, and ended up in
charge of a gunnery-school. Likes Aus-
tralia so much he’s bought a home at
bushy Pittwater, on the Hawkesbury
estuary.
• •
There was no walkover about the
award of the Rotary Foundation Fellow-
ship to Walter M. Thorbjomsen, of
Albany (W.A.); he was chosen from can-
didates of 28 countries. Assistant civil-
engineer on the Albany harbor-works,
Thorbjomsen is a stocky athlete who
graduated from Westralia’s University in
1950. The Fellowship entitles him to a
course of post-graduate study at any
American university.
• •
Visiting Australia in the course of a
tour of his company’s overseas branches
which has already taken him to
America, Canada and New Zealand,
with Cape Town, Johannesburg
and the Gold Coast still to come,
Alexander Stewart Frere, chairman
and managing-director of the Heinemann
group of publishing-houses. Frere went
to Cambridge after the First World War
(Royal East Kents and R.F.C.), gradu-
ated M.A. and edited “Granta.” After a
couple of years with the London “Even-
ing News” he joined Heinemann’s. Since
then his story has been that of the firm,
except for war-time years as Director of
Public Relations with the Ministry of
Labor and National Service. Frere con-
siders Australian writing to be in a very
healthy state, he rates Chester Wilmot’s
BOOKS
Struggle for Europe “the best book to
come out of the war” and regards Arthur
Upfield as “much more than a writer of
thrillers; he’s a very fine novelist.” On
the other hand he was disappointed to
meet an Auckland bookshop girl who sup-
posed Ngaio Marsh was an American
and a Sydney journalist who hadn’t heard
of Henry Handel Richardson or Upfield.
Frere admits relationship to Bartle Frere,
whose name is attached to a Queensland
mountain and a New Guinea bay, but he
disowns villainous Captain Maurice
Frere of For the Term of His Natural
Life.
• •
Noel St. John Larkins succeeds
British shipping expert Cyril Dewey as
acting general-manager of the Australian
Shipping Board, which runs the Com-
monwealth Shipping Line of 40 vessels.
Larkins is a man of many jobs. Deputy
Director of Transportation, Army h.-q.,
he’s busy raising militia transportation-
units for port-operating, port-maintenance
and railway-operating. Also, he’s a
member of the Australian Shipbuilding
Board, Crew Accommodation Com-
mittee and Committee of Advice. He
has been A.S.B.’s Melbourne manager
since 1947.
• •
Christopher Muir, one of the first Aus-
tralians off to Europe to study television,
is a son of Bonnie Muir, one-time cham-
pion wrestler and now a wrestling-referee.
Born in Melbourne, the son returned to
France as a baby ; he and his mother
fled from the German invasion and
escaped to England. Under A.B.C. aus-
pices, he has been invited by Radio
Diffusion Fran?aise to study its equip-
ment and production-methods.
• ®
Promoted rear-admiral (the highest
rank in his branch), and to be head of
the R.A.N.’s medical services, Lionel
Lockwood is also entitled to wear, de-
pending from his right shoulder, the
golden aiglettes (“loafer’s loops” to the
irreverent) denoting him to be honorary
physician to the Queen —as he had been
earlier to George VI. A seagoing surgeon,
Lockwood was in cruiser Hobart in the
War II Mediterranean and in the early
stages of the Java Sea battle in cruiser
Australia for the Coral Sea shindy (his
squadron turned back the Jap invasion-
force heading for Moresby), and at many
of the ship’s subsequent Pacific landings.
The Australia was an old address—he
was in her when she took the Duke of
Gloucester round the world in 1934-35,
senior medical officer, and was made a
member of the Victorian Order for his
personal services to H.R.H. His D.S.C.
was added in the Java Sea. In his day
a solid all-rounder who excelled at Aussie
Rules, Lockwood is a Melbourne Uni-
versity M.D. Son of A. W. Lockwood
who was a well-known proprietor of Vic-
torian provincial newspapers, he has had
31 of his 53 years in the Service.
• •
Kevin Walsh, new Crown Solicitor in
Westralia, is South Australian by birth,
and graduated in law at Adelaide in 1932.
Admitted to the WestraJian Bar in 1934,
he practised on the Murchison till he
joined the R.A.N. in 1941. Subsequent
jobs in the Crown Law Department
included assistant Parliamentary Drafts-
man, Chief Conveyancer, Crown Prose-
cutor and assistant Crown Solicitor.
• •
“C.M.”: A lot of journalists and per-
haps a few Thespians of another genera-
tion would have noted with regret the
passing in Sydney of “S. M. Herald’s”
chief sub-editor, Lew Townsend (he had
three Christian-names, but nobody ever
knew him as other than Lew). When
writer first met him he was with a barn-
storming company (probably Allan
Wilkie’s) that had dropped in on
Grafton (N.S.W.) to rock the iron roof
and the jacarandas with renderings of
Shakspeare. What Lew was doing with
the outfit isn’t remembered. Later,
fellow-scribes on “Granny’s” staff, we
used to haunt the pit of the old Cri.
and other vanished Sydney playhouses.
Lew had, among other human qualities, a
chuckle peculiar to himself, as had sundry
others in the old “S.M.H.” triangle,
including Brian Penton and the present
editor of the Christchurch (N.Z.) “Press,”
Hugo Freeth: they and the rest made a
pretty solid team altogether ; “Granny,”
in fact, somehow manages always to have
that sort of a team. In latter days Lew
was the friend and mentor of young
scribes there, and they’ll never have a
better.
• • .
“R.W.”: Constable Bernard (“Barney”)
Orrock, of the Sydney Water Police, who,
with two soldiers, was killed in the floods
at Maitland on February 26, when the
aerial of their Army “duck” touched high-
tension wires, was a well-known Sydney
footballer. He played with Gordon’s
first-grade Rugby Union team as a
second-row forward. He was 24.
• •
Tom Jones, chairman of the W.A.
Cricket Council, is dead. Between the
two wars he established a reputation as
one oj: the biggest hitters in the game.
His 42 off one over for Sujbiaco against
Claremont still stands as a record. As
an official he played a major part in
Subiaco’s spectacular run of successes
over a 12-year period (1936-48) when
they won five premiership pennants and
were runners-up on five occasions.
• •
There cannot be many public-body
pies in Queensland in which George Rees
(hereunder) has not an honorary-treasurer
or -secretarial finger. The list takes in
Red Cross (hon. treas. for 20 years), Boy
Scouts, Rotary, Crippled Children,
Health Education, Tuberculosis, St.
David’s Society and two hospital-boards.
He’s just been elected vice-president of
CHARITY
the Australian Bowling Council (been
Queensland delegate for 20 years), and
has just resigned as hon. auditor of the
council. Then there’s a trusteeship of
Brisbane Amateur Turf Club, founda-
tion-membership of Hamilton Bowling
Club, life-membership (once president)
of the Royal Automobile Club, and office
with the Order of St. John. Apart from
this interest or two, he finds time to look
after the firm of Queen-street accountants
bearing his name.
• •
Passed on in Sydney after a short
illness, Robert Crossland, whose Waine-
wright in Tasmania was reviewed on the
Red Page (B. 9/2/’55). Although nomin-
ally a resident of N. S. Wales, Crossland
spent a good deal of time delving into
early Tasmanian history. Some of the
results of his research have been pub-
lished in newspapers and in the journals
of the Tasmanian Historical Research
Association and the W.E.A., of both of
which organisations he was a leading
member. He was associated with the
Lyre Bird group of poets, and a book of
his verses is at present in the press.
Forty-two at the end.
Taken on the presidency of the Federal
Viticultural Council of Australia from his
old friend Mick Auld, Ron Haselgrove
also presides over the Viticultural Society
of Victoria and bosses Mildura Winery
Pty., Ltd. He joined the wine-industry
by chance ; owning a diploma from Rose-
worthy Agricultural College and a wool-
classer’s certificate when Leo Buring in-
WINES
duced him to forsake wool for wine in
1921. Haselgrove was given charge of
Buriug’s Renmark Growers’ Distillery,
and shortly afterwards was sent, to France
to study and specialise in brandy-distil-
lation. He returned a fully-fledged
vinologist, got back to work at Renmark
and created St. Agnes brandy, which has
since taken many prizes at wine-shows.
On joining the Mildura Winery in 1934,
he reorganised the company, concentrat-
ing on production of sherry; result, Mil-
dara Supreme sherry. Now a recognised
authority on brandy and sherry, he has
a brother, Colin, also in the trade, and
well-known as a judge of wines.
• •
Behind almost every developmental
project carried out in Queensland in the
past 25 years were the brains and experi-
ence of Sir John Kemp, who has passed
on in Brisbane at 71. A Victorian en-
gineer who made Queensland his adopted
State, Kemp filled, in turn, the posts of
Commissioner for Main Roads, Co-ordin-
ator-General of Public Works and
Bureau of Investigation chairmanship.
During the war he was Deputy-Director
of the Allied Works Council. He retired
from the public service at the end of
1953, but was later appointed liquidator
of the Queensland-British Food Corpora-
tion. On hearing the news of his death,
Mr. Grice, an old friend of Kemp and a
former mayor of Southport (Q.), ’phoned
to remind The Bulletin that many years
ago it had said this of Sir John: “He is
Australian-born and Australian-trained,
and with his name no breath of scandal
has ever been connected.” “That descrip-
tion remained true of him to the end,”
said Mr. Grice.
• *
Into the Silence:—^
In Perth, at 90, Canon Percy Umfreville
Henn, An Oxford man (8.A., 1887; M.A.,
1890), he had a few years’ teaching- and
parish-experience in England; thence to
Kalgoorlie as a curate in 1899. Subsequent
career: rural dean at Geraldton; rector at
Northam; headmaster of Guildford Grammar
1910-25; five years in England; warden or
St. George’s (University) College, Perth, 1930-2.
Two sons, Canon W. E. Henn and Dr. Guy
Henn, are old Guildfordians, and three grand-
sons now attend the school.
In Hobart, at 69, Dr. Harry Naim Butler, a
third-generation medico who commanded the
3rd Australian Field Ambulance in 1916, was
twice mentioned in dispatches and gained a
D.S.O.
At Wellington (N.Z.), at 49, Percy Warwick
Blundell, one-time chairman of the Wellington
Stock Exchange, partner in the firm of Milne,
Blundell and Co., sharebrokers, and, in Hitler’s
war, intelligence-officer to a N.Z. fighter-
squadron in the Pacific.


%?
/Slo u?l\?T
OG. TMO-(a*s/
y //
&ut> Goy'p
m
AUTUMN TONES


ABORIGINAHTIES
continue his firing career in these parts,
and he made us downright ashamed of
our system, as he spoke of crack expresses
like the Flying Scot and the Coronation
Scot. 'Then he was put on to fire the
branch-passenger over the rickety old
spur-line. The old rattler, touching 60,
hit a fair-sized hole in the road (nothing
unusual for us); Jock went spinning
SOMEBODY in B. 23/2/’55 was told
that Burrawang (N.S.W.) woolshed,
like Mahonga, had 88 stands back in
1898. That must have been about the time
my father blew into Burrawang from the
Gunning Gap side.
In after years he told me that he went
as a piece-picker, but, like all bushmen,
commented on the quality of the cooking,
whereupon the reigning poisoner asked
how Dad would go cooking for 88
greasies and a regiment of loafing rouse-
abouts.
Later, according to Dad, ’flu or some-
thing laid out most of the cooking-staff,
and the boss of the board remembered
Dad’s bit of skite about himself having
cooked at Pretty Plains, Melville Forest
and for the railway-gang on the Ouyen
line, and shot him into the job.
“Did all right, too,” Dad told me.
“Worst was one Sunday when the mob
wanted plum-duff. There was no copper
big enough for a duff for that crowd, so
me and me offsiders mixed a duff on the
woolfloor, tied it in three big tarpaulins,
loaded it on a German-wagon they had
there, carted it to the dam and rolled it
in. Then we sank a drive under the dam,
packed it with six-foot logs and fired
them. Took nearly four hours to boil the
thing properly.”
Ever since then I’ve always believed
Burrawang was the biggest shed in the
world —well, in what other shed did the
boss have to drive up and down the board
in a buggy-and-pair?—“Old-timer.”
• * * *
“J.P.C.”: Jock emigrated from Lon-
don, Midland and Scottish Railways to
across the footplate and clouted
his head against the side of the
cab. When the driver and guard
revived him, Jock solemnly
placed two pennies on the
driver’s seat. “Aye, mon,”
he said respectfully, “I’ve got
to pay that one. We’ve got
engines back home that 'do 400
miles non-stop at 100 miles an
hour and pick up water on the
way. But we ain’t got one that
loops the loop!”
* * *
“L.R.M.”: Bulletin’s cover
of 2/2/’55 omitted mention of
Glastonbury’s swans, which call
for dinner by tugging at the bell-
rope. But some questions
plague me: Who taught them
to do it the first time? Does
each new generation have to be
retaught, or do they learn it from
Mum and Dad as an extra-
curricular activity for young
cygnets?
“Quo Vadis”: Old Sleepy
the yellow-belly, had been
spawned in the “big hole” in the
Diamantina River channels on
Monkira, down in the south-west corner
of Queensland’s channel-country. He
was a fine milter now ; heavy-backed and
broad-bellied, his sides a gleaming sheen
of golden-tinged silver scales. In 10
years he’d done the round trip: down
nearly to the S.A. border in the good
seasons ; up north past Davenport Downs
and The Lakes to the rock-holes on The
Mayne; up to the very tributary sources
of Mills and Wokingham Creeks near
Winton. Now drought had trapped him
in the upper reaches of the mother stream
in the nor’-west country of “Waltzing
Matilda’s” birthplace near Dagworth.
Old Sleepy hid in the hole under the
mighty network of coolibah-roots, deep
in the abysmal blackness of the huge
hollow bole. A big black veil of cloud
enveloped the weakening sun, and the
first, steady soaking rain began to fall.
Old Sleepy stirred from his haven ; the
“wet” had begun.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Peter Bladen’s walkabout
round Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie re-
minded that as soon as news of the
strike by Bayley and Ford reached Adel-
aide, my uncle, David Lindsay, and my
“And what’s more, if you go on like you have been, Johnny, you’ll finish
up as a disgruntled contestant for the Archibald Prize.”
father, George Lindsay, bought a mob of
100 camels in S.A. and took them over-
land to the field. They were accompanied
by two prospectors, Joe Tregear and Jim
O’Neil, and a couple of Afghan camel-
men, Azzim and Djurak. (Incidentally,
“Smiler” Hales, in the early days of Cool-
gardie, wasn’t as well-known as his
mother, who lived there with him and
acted as bush-nurse when anyone was
sick or injured.) An account of some of
my father’s experiences appeared in the
“Wide World Magazine” in 1934, en-
titled “A Ride for £1000.” As regards
the discovery of the Golden Mile:
“I see the Western whaling-stations have had their quota reduced
to 200 this year”
Charles Deßose, sole survivor of the men
who found and pegged it, is still living in
Adelaide and owns documents which
hold an immense amount of information
and photographs illustrating every stage
of the development of the Great Boulder.
He’s now over 90, but his memory is
wonderfully clear.
* * * *
“Clunesman”: About bush ballads:
bushmen used to sing one in which the
first verse went:
Boomeri-eye, and mind your eye,
And don’t kick up a shindy!
I’ve got a girl in Camooweal
And one in Goondiwindi!
Anyone know the rest?
* * * *
“K.A.”: There were some stinging
bottoms when my neighbor discovered
his two young hopefuls and their visiting
cousins investigating the eff§£ts of elec-
tricity by applying each baby porker in
turn to the electric-fence. It is unlikely
they added anything to science. Forty
years ago we discovered that electricity
enough to raise the hairs on one’s arm
was generated by the belt coupling the
engine to the compressor in the ice-plant.
With commendable technical interest and
disregard for personal danger we held
the sleepy old rat-catcher near the belt to
note the effect on her fur. Puss took it
well until the experiment concluded and
she was placed on the concrete floor. A
short screech as she discharged through
the bare pads of her feet, and a flash of
black as she shot through the door, never
again to venture inside the engine-room.
“Eurimburra”: I didn’t know until
recently that it was not unusual for some
of, our earliest teamsters to shoe their
working-bullocks. The practice seems to
have been on the way out before the
1880’s —the shoeing of a team at Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) in 1878 invoked much in-
terest, the local press commenting “that
there are now few smiths capable of
doing a first-class job.” Any old-timer
remember what the shoes were like?
" I’ve ploughed-up many old shoes without
finding one that looked as though it came
from a bullock.
* * * •
“Ymar”: The Victorian Egg Board
price, to suppliers, of 4s. 9d. a dozen for
first-quality eggs is subject to a total
deduction, for the pool and for handling,
grading, etc., of 10id. a dozen, and the
average net-price received is further
lowered by eggs graded as not first-
quality. So one would hardly expect a
dozen less to make more than 3s. differ-
ence to a cheque. But by grading several
dozen out of a total of nine-dozen as
small, second-quality and useless, the
board managed the seemingly impossible.
It paid me 4s Bd. more for eight-dozen
than for the nine-dozen supplied the
previous week!
* * * *
“Ex-R.S.M.”: The young chaps seemed
bewildered and more unhappy than most
recruits. They showed signs of a bit of
Polynesian blood and spoke with a
tendency to clip their words short. When
I asked if there was anything wrong,
one said: “We came here to volunteer.
We said we wanted to do something with
boats—we’ve been rowing and sailing
them since we was so high—but they puts
us in the Army and! tells us we’ve got to
like it.” I asked where they came from.
“Norfolk Island,” I was told. I went
off to interview the Water Transport
Branch. “We badly want fellows with
yachting or deep-sea-fishing experience,”
an officer told me. I asked him if he could
use three Norfolk Islanders. “Where are
they?” he cried, grabbing his cap.
“Take me to them, quick!” Result:
three youngsters used to handling boats
since childhood were transferred in record
time to the unit in which their experience
would be valuable, and I was requested
to keep an eye open for any more of the
same sort in future.
* * * *
“C.A.Y.”: When I was in the Forbes
(N.S.W.) district some years ago a fellow
who was cleaning out a tank had his
pack of pretty savage dogs with him.
He slipped and fell face-down into the
black mud. When he got up his dogs
didn’t know him. He saw what was
coming and managed to hold them off
for a second with his voice while he
picked up a piece of iron-piping. Then
they charged, and he had to kill two
before he could drive the rest off-
Evidently the mud killed their sense of
smell.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: I assume that “Gravel-
snatcher” has scientific backing for his
statement that cyclones move clockwise
in the Southern Hemisphere and anti-
clockwise in the Northern (B. 16/2//55),
which indicates that the revolution of
the earth decides the direction. Why,
then, does air spiral in the opposite way
from water? All my life I’ve had ainned
into me that in the Southern Hemisphere
water runs down a plughole in anti-clock-
wise spirals and vice versa in the
Northern. Observation of my present
tub shows that in 19 cases out of 20 the
rule applies; but perhaps the casting of
the bath is a contributing factor? After
all, the earth’s motion gets the blame for
many things that it couldn’t possibly
affect. I recall building a copper under
the eye of an armchair-architect and
being halted with: “You’ve made the flue
come round here!” I explained that in
all properly-constructed coppers the flue
encircled the job. “That’s not the point,”
interrupted the old boy. “You’ve got it
anti-clockwise; it’s pulling against the
earth’s motion. It’ll never draw.” He
got decidedly huffy when I declined to
alter it. But the smoke went up the
chimney just the same.
* * * ♦
“Montrose”: About the last object
you’d nominate as a bushfire-starter
would be a wet cornsack; yet it can
happen. I was belting a fire with a wet
one, and my backswing flipped a burning
chip across the break behind me into dry
bush beyond. The new fire was racing
before I knew it had started.
THE WORDS OF MARRE-WABBA
Marre-Wabba told a tale
Of hunters and a wallaroo,
And every listener saw the trail
Imprinted in the early dew,
And threw the word-made boomerang
The tongue of Marre-Wabba threw.
Marre-Wabba told a Time
Of No-rain, and a sandstone sky;
And each man’s belly filled with lime,
And each man’s thinking lips grew dry,
Although the yellow creek ran full,
Although the grass was three feet high.
Then each man looked at him with fear,
And thought, “Our ancient suns have set
On things our children must not hear,
On shameful things we would forget” . . .
And one arose and plunged a spear
Where Marre-Wabba’s jawbones met.
They buried him with clay-filled mouth;
Black pebbles ringed the taboo ground.
They moved their campfires further South
Away from Marre-Wabba’s sound;
But when the twilight came, his words
Stood up, and laughed, and walked around.
.VICTORIA.
LOUIS H. CLARK.


A FEW weeks back Harold Blood-
worth, owner of Wigelma station, 24
miles from Rylstone (N.S.W.), cleaned-
up the riding events at the local show.
Included in his day of five firsts was anj
award—best gentleman rider —for the
third year in succession. Scooping the
pool is not uncommon at a one-day
small-town show, but there’s a distinction
about Bloodworth’s performance —he’s
65.—“Kune.”
* * * *
“N.D.J.”: Abos aren’t the only ones
capable of storing their emotions (B.
2/2/’55). White children do it, too.
Take the kid who skins his knee while
Mother is out. He waits in silence till the
front-gate clicks ; then he tears through
the house howling his head off.
* * * *
“C. Luff”: Annual race-meetings were
important to the small country news-
paper, which profited from ads., race-
books, tote-tickets, members’-badges, etc.
The second day’s race-books were printed
the previous night on an old hand-fed
platen. The boss’s family often helped
to fold, stitch and trim the books. The
race-club secretary called repeatedly to
urge things along, and gentlemen in
various stages of inebriation staggered
in from the “ball” full of grog and use-
less advice. The “staff” worked into the
wan light of morning, aided by injections
from the bottles hidden around the old
office. There was a lot of fun to it, but
the new city editor ruined things by
printing a two-day racebook in one
volume with blank spaces for weights.
The clubs soon realised they could dis-
pense with our “race-night effort,” and
the work went elsewhere for a cheaper
and more modern job; Just one of those
little things that have helped to send so
many small country sheets over the hill.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The length of a razor-
strop doesn’t matter (B. 19/1/’55). The
essential point is that the stropping-
surface must be a flat plane. I’ve accom-
plished this by gluing the strop (sharpen
and finish) to each side of a suitable
piece of quarter-inch wallboard. A sag-
ging strop merely rounds a razor’s edge ;
any mug can sharpen a cut-throat with
my strop.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Termites sometimes have
boarders in their ant-hills. Needing
some of the cement-like material for a
tennis-court, we demolished a mound
and disturbed a couple of death-adders,
a nest of young kookaburras and a
blue-tongue lizard. Don’t know how
the snakes managed to find a hole in the
ant-hill; the kookaburras, no doubt,
could excavate theirs. *
* * * *
“Gigas”: Is there any bird except the
magpie that hangs about for parental
supplies of tucker long after it is capable
of foraging for itself? In the National
Park (S.A.) one young maggie hung-on
right through the next year’s nesting-
season, and, despite attacks by its male
parent, kept bullying Mum into feeding
him as well as her new family. Only
when the second lot of young-’uns had
been flying for some months was he
eventually chased away from squawking
at Mum every time she came on a bit of
succulent tucker.
* * * *
“Morayda”: Perhaps sheep can be
driven by a tractor (B. 2/2/’55), but try
it on bush cattle and you’ll only see
their dust. As for tractors going where
horses can’t, can a tractor swim? I know
a few hills covered with spinifex and
small rocks and so steep that no tractor
could negotiate them. A bush horse goes
up them like a mountain-goat. Where
Hereford cattle go, so must the musterer
—on horseback.
# * * *
“8.A.K.”: Why doesn’t Wollongong
(N.S.W.) show a little more interest in
its old fort? Built on the headland near
the lighthouse it gives the impression of
having been sited to cover the beach and
five islands against an attack from sea-
ward. The fort consists of a circular
breastwork of bricks with a sloping
earth-mound in front. Well back from
the outer circle there is a small circular
mound, grass-covered, but with a
wooden door in the side. The mound is
a camouflage for a stone-walled barracks
consisting of a number of large cham-
bers and galleries connecting with a cir-
cular observation-post. With a clean-up,
and a tablet giving its history, Wollongong
Fort could become a tourist-attraction.
“They’re NOT falsies!”
WHOSE ZOO ON STAMPS
CJOUTH AFRICA lately issued one of
the most comprehensive of all zoo-
logical stamp-series. The 14 designs in
single and multicolors realistically fea-
ture head-studies of a warthog, black
wildebeest, leopard and a zebra, with full-
length portrayals of a rhinoceros,
elephant, hippopotamus, lion, springbok,
giraffe, antelope and others.
The issue makes Australia’s “wild-life”
stamps look pretty amateurish, in concep-
tion, production and effect. We don’t
seem to have the knack of presenting the
best aspect of our zoological representa-
tives on stamps, a lot of which are spoilt
through lack of suitable backgrounds.
Creatures displayed look like stuffed
dummies.
Other oversea countries besides South
Africa have striking zoo-stamps. First-
class photographers and artists are en-
gaged to capture the most realistic
vignettes for the purpose.
Canada has twice issued stamps in
commemoration of Wild Life Month,
while Finland, Rumania, Switzerland,
Yugoslavia, Hungary, Mozambique,
Liberia and North Borneo, to name but
a few more, all have creditable zoo-
stamps. Chile included 25 stamps show-
ing fauna, avifauna and floral-life on one
complete sheet.
Methods of printing overseas are far
ahead of Australia’s. Stamps printed by
photogravure, rotogravure or in mono-
chrome add beauty to the designs fea-
tured. Zoo-stamps of European coun-
tries are not dull. The creatures are alive,
full of movement, action.
Australia issued its first zoo stamps in
1913, and, deservedly, the kangaroo
standing in the centre of a badly-drawn
map of the Commonwealth was subjected
to much criticism.
Worst feature of the kookaburra-stamp
has been its frequency—first in 1913 (6d.),
again in 1928 (3d.). The 6d. design of 1932
was described by art-critics as demonstrat-
ing “ugliness in simplicity.” Once more,
in 1937, the kookaburra was typified, this
time at 9d.
On the current Is. lyrebird-stamp the
fowl appears in a physically impossible
attitude, with its tail extended vertically.
When the bird unfurls its tail, it sweeps
it upward and forward until the whole
body is hidden under a fan-shaped
canopy. Postal folk said the design
adopted showed the lyre-shaped tail,
which could not otherwise be indicated.
When the 1938 koala-stamp was de-
scribed as “a woolly puppy-dog, clinging
to a chunk of dead wood,” the P.M.G.
Department said that it “did not pose as
an art-producer,” and had “merely sought
to accurately portray an animal which is
of uncommon interest in all parts of the
world.”
That stamp had a saving-grace in that
it represented Gumleaf, a koala born and
bred at the famous Koala Park, Pennant
Hills (near Sydney).
Philatelists still wonder why the postal
authorities had to issue a sd. stamp in
1938 bearing the same design as that used
in 1934 on a commemorative printing —
a Merino ram, originally on stamps mark-
ing the centenary of the death of wool-
pioneer John Macarthur.
Since the platypus, on the still-used 9d i
stamp, is a most difficult subject to photo-
graph on land, the design included was
“the best they could get,” said a Sydney
zoological expert.
The stamp, first placed on sale in
1942, and principally used for airmail
purposes, depicted the emu, which cannot
fly.
Nobody can be blamed for thinking
that the crocodile on the current 2s.
stamp is a lizard. Portrayed as an example
of “aboriginal art,” the small inset croco-
dile appears to be tail-dancing. And
why wasn’t the entire stamp reserved
for its likeness?
“Unimaginative” was the general com-
ment on the “Produce Food!” stamps of
1953. The hindquarters of cattle in a
milking-bail made a poor subject.
The 1953 stamp, celebrating the 25th
anniversary of the Australian Young
Farmer Movement showed a boy and
girl standing beside a calf, all feet of the
three subjects apparently lost in a mist
rising from the word “Australia” at the
bottom of the stamp. It was Australia’s
first bicolored stamp, reproduced in brown
and green.
In representing our wild-life on stamps,
surely it’s about time we extended the
field. What’s wrong with portraying the
magpie, the wombat, Tasmanian devil,
wedgetail-eagle, brolga, rosella-parrot,
goanna, dingo and dugong?,
A. KAY.
Old Lush songs
Words collected by Russel Ward and tune recorded by John Meredith from
the singing of the late Jack Lee, of Auburn, (N.S.W.). Lee learned the song from
Bill Tulley, in the Mt. Hope district (same State). The tune is a variant of an
Irish song about transportation called “Castle Gardens,” which was also popular
outback during the latter part of the last century. The tune was first published
by the Folk Lore Society in “Speewa.”
THE BACKS LOCK SHEARER.
I’m only a backblock shearer
As easily can be seen,
I’ve shorn in most of the sheds
On the plains of the Riverine
I’ve shorn in most of the famous sheds,
I’ve saw big tallies done,
But somehow or other, I can’t tell why,
I never became a gun.
Chorus:
Hurrah, my boys, my shears are set,
I feel both fit and well,
Tomorrow you’ll find me at my pen
When the gaffer rings the bell,
With Haydens patent thumb-guards
fixed
And both my blades pulled back.
Tomorrow 1 go with a sardine blow
For a century or the sack.
I’ve opened up the windpipes straight,
I’ve opened behind the ear,
I’ve practised all the possible styles
In which a man can shear.
I’ve studied all the cuts and drives
Of the famous men I’ve met,
But I’ve never succeeded in plastering-up
Them three little figures yet.
As the boss walked down the board this
morning
I saw him stare at me,
For I’d mastered Moran’s great shoulder-
cut,
Of course, he could plainly see.
But I’ve another surprise for him
That will give his nerves a shock,
Tomorrow I’ll show him, I’ll have
mastered
Pierce’s rang-tang block.
And if I succeed as I expect to do
Next year I intend to shear
At the Wagga demonstration
That’s held there every year.
And there I’ll lower the colors,
The colors of Mitchell and Co. —
Instead of Deeming, you will hear
Of Widgee-go-weera Joe.
[This series of Old Bush Songs with Music will be continued! each week.]


aTsmlk-mkmqTai
,
• . '#■■■■ ;• ' f ' ■*.*!;*:
gnu
m
mtm
mss
■J.W
m
■»<i
m
fM
trii =yl
p s s
L-—’
u „vs*mr^«
A Nuffield “M 4” Kerosene-powered Universal
Tractor on 13.50 x 24 rear tyres tank-sinking
with a 7ft. hydraulically-operated front end
blade. By utilising both internal and external
Hydraulic systems a Ripper mounted at rear can
be used independently or in conjunction with the
blade without driver leaving seat.
ALL PURPOSE POWER. In addition to the conventional sources of
power, i.e., drawbar, belt-pulley and power take-off, the Nuffield
Universal is equipped with the only hydraulic system with both internal
and external hydraulic tapping points— by ivhich means both front
and rear mounted hydraulically operated implements can be used
TOGETHER or independently without the driver leaving his seat (this
applies to working the implements or transporting them). Front and
rear mounted attachments that can be used include bulldozers, front-
end loaders, hydraulic tipping trailers, scoops, rippers and
hydraulically-operated trailed implements.
fewnoff
BMC |
NT.28.32
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
DISTRIBUTORS—
New South Wale*: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-FALKINER
PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY
LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
* '' ’ ' ' '. ' , .. . ....
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTr. LTD.
Business, Rollery, Etc
Lord' Brand and Keynes
TT was interesting to read in
the “Sydney Morning Herald”
last week that Lord Brand, who
among other things is a director
of Lazard Bros., the London
banking firm, and “The Times,”
remarked in an interview that if
Lord Keynes were alive he
would be less .of “a Keynesian
than many of his followers.”
Lord Brand and J. M. Keynes
were both members of the Mac-
millan Committee on Currency
and Finance, 1929-31, and the
two were associated in other
special tasks on behalf of
the British Government, be-
ginning with the Peace Confer-
ence in Paris and continuing up
to the dollar-loan negotiations
which followed the ending of
lend-lease and to the Bretton
Woods Conference. Keynes
died shortly afterwards. Lord
Brand, referring to the prob-
lem of productivity and pro-
duction-costs, told the “Herald”
that “Keynes would recognise
that the problem had not yet
been met, and would be putting
up some new solution, and, what
is most important, the econo-
mists, politicians and many
ordinary people would listen to
him. They don’t listen much to
anybody else.” Lord Brand
added: “In our democracies, the
real problem is to raise the
people’s understanding of these
difficult matters.”
The Bulletin is particularly
interested to hear Lord Brand’s
comments on Keynes. Two
years ago it went into two
aspects of Keynes’s theory—his
policy of “euthanasia of the
rentier” (investor), and his belief
that “when the capital-develop-
ment of a- country becomes the
by-product of the activities of a
casino, the job is likely to be
ill-done”—a rather sweeping
commentary on the speculative
motive behind private enterprise.
The Bulletin pointed out that
even Keynes’s best friends ad-
mitted that, “having propounded
his theory of socialisation of
investment, he failed to develop it
or elaborate it in any practical
way.” Also, “In Keynes’s social-
isation-of-investment theory, as
in most of his theories, the ques-
tion is very soon raised as to
how much can be achieved with-
out (a) continuous inflation, and
( b ) a completely planned Social-
ist economy. Also how much
can be achieved anyway.”
“Keynes’s practical work,” it
was remarked here, “was mostly
of a short-term nature. He dealt
with crises as they occurred.
And it was in this regard that his
best work was done.”
As to speculation, The
Bulletin’s comment was:
But speculation is a natural thing-,
and when it is harnessed to real
productive enterprise it has virtue
as well as vice. The industrial
might of the United States was
built up on a combination of hard
work and considered speculation.
Australia, a young country, is most
likely to develop most rapidly along
similar lines. Gambling that pro-
duces something is far better than
a mere lottery or a bet on a horse.
Keynes had considered that
euthanasia of the investor could
be achieved peacefully and
gradually as a result of the
accumulation of so much in the
way of wealth-producing assets
that capital would always be
abundant. The Bulletin com-
mented: “In Australia we have
come very close to the euthan-
asia of the investor without any
of the accumulation of produc-
tive wealth that Keynes pro-
mised. Thrift has lost many of
the rewards and privileges which
made capital-creation so much a
desired objective until World
War II began. We are now
perilously short of capital be-
cause we are not producing
enough, not saving enough. And
too much of our savings have
been wasted when spent unwisely
by public bodies.”
Lord Brand said last week:
“Your workers, who are so im-
portant politically, are apt (like
ours) to think only about raising
their standards in the short
term Australia may be more
self-sufficient than Britain, but
she urgently needs capital for
development, especially overseas
capital, and confidence in your
currency is essential for that.”
Confidence in the currency
will best be won by increased
output per man-hour. Produc-
tivity per man per working-year
is the key to national industrial
and financial strength. Strength
of this kind not only provides
greater capital from a country’s
own resources ; it attracts capital
from other countries. But the
only reliable source of capital-
creation is private enterprise.
Notwithstanding Keynes theory,
that fact has lately been
adequately demonstrated.
Rio Tinto Co., Ltd.
The Rio Tinto Co., Ltd.,
which has acquired a controlling-
interest in the Mary Kathleen
uranium leases near Mt. Isa
(Q.), is an old-established English
concern, formed in 1873 to work
the Rio Tinto copper- and
pyrites-mines in the province of
Huelva, Spain. The Rio Tinto
property contained three types
of ore —pure pyrites used in the
manufacture of sulphuric acid,
silicified porphyry impregnated
with copper-bearing sulphides,
and iron ore.
The co. recently sold its Spanish
interests for £7,666,666 sterling
(payable in instalments) and a
third-interest in the new Spanish
co. The Rio Tinto co. continues
to supply technical services in
Spain, and commercial facilities,
such as marketing, in London.
The first £2,500,000 of the cash-
consideration has already been
received.
Under the agreement with
Australasian Oil Exploration and
the Walton-McConachy Syndi-
cate (original owners of the Mary
Kathleen lease), Rio Tinto will
acquire a 51 p.c. holding in
Mary Kathleen Uranium, Ltd.
A.O.E. will have 39 p.c., Walton-
McConachy 10 p.c.
Few other details in Rio
Tinto’s agreement in relation to
the Mary Kathleen leases have
been disclosed, but another Aus-
tralian concern, Uranium De-
velopment and Prospecting, N.L.,
rejected an offer from Rio Tinto
in respect of its Alligator River
(N.T.) property on February 21,
as soon as full details were
known. Rio Tinto was to have
two-thirds of the ownership, full
directional control, and a long-
term selling arrangement over-
seas. Rio Tinto at its option was
to form a treatment co. solely
owned by it.
In past years Rio Tinto has
invested some of its surplus earn-
ings in Northern Rhodesian
coppermines, of which its most
important holdings are in the
Rhokana Corporation, Ltd.,
Nchanga Consolidated Copper,
and Mufulira Copper Mines. In
1953 an exploration co., Mineral
Search of Africa, Ltd., was
formed to prospect over a large
area in Rhodesia. The co. has
other interests in Africa.
In Canada it has a wholly-
owned subsidiary, Ownamin,
Ltd., formed in 1953 for explora-
tion purposes. In the past few
months Rio Tinto has agreed to
participate in the provision of
$4l million for the Algom
Uranium Mines of Canada, and
will have a technical manage-
ment contract. Others in the
group in London include Com-
monwealth Development Finance
Co., Ltd., Rothschilds, and
Robert Benson Lonsdale.
Rio Tin to is clearly seeking
employment for the funds
released by the sale of its old
Spanish interests. Its selection
of investments in the past has
been judicious. Accounts to
December 31, 1952, showed that
investments with a book-value of
£2,978,801 had a market-value
in excess of £11,600,000.
Paid capital of Rio Tinto is
£3,750,000 in 325,000 £5 prefs.
(5 p.c. cumulative) and 425,000
ords. of £5 each. The ords. have
recently fetched £5O in London.
Rough Range Oil-sand
L. Owen writes: A circular
distributed to Ampol Exploration
shareholders contains some very
interesting information not
previously available to the
general public, and calls for
comment, as it confirms, in many
respects, the opinions expressed
previously in The Bulletin.
In dealing with Rough Range
No. 6 location (B. 22/12/’54), I
pointed out that, had “textbook”
reservoir - sand conditions
existed, the No. 6 bore should
have struck oil at around 3610 ft.,
subject to a small correction for
the difference in height of loca-
tions 1 and 6, and that the oil-
sand at this point would be just
over 10ft. in thickness. The fact
that this sand (now named
“Birdrong”) was not encoun-
tered until the depth of 3658 ft.
was reached, and that drilling
was continued to 3669 ft. without
even a show of oil, indicates how
widely the actual underground
conditions differ from the ideal.
In fact, it can be stated that
every published piece of informa-
tion obtained in drilling sub-
sequent to the oil-strike at 3605 ft.
in Rough Range No. 1 well
supports my hypothesis that the
No. 1 show comes from a fossil
oil-seep, and that the apparent
“high” in the Birdrong sand is
depositional rather than
structural.
The acceptance of this
hypothesis demands, of course,
an approach to the problem of
striking commercial oil within
the Rough Range structure very
different from the “develop-
mental” technique adopted in the
location of wells Nos. 2 to 6,
and, apparently, being extended
to locations Nos. 7 and 8.
The drilling of all these wells,
although it has produced some
interesting—and often quite
unexpected—geological data, has
given very little definite informa-
tion of commercial value as to
structure. For instance, the find-
ing of the Birdrong sandstone at
3744 ft. in No. 7 well indicates
an average inclination of rather
less than one degree southward
at the upper surface of the sand
between Nos. 1 and 7 wells.
Such a small dip could induce
flow only in a markedly perme-
able bed and with low-viscosity
oil. It would appear that No. 8
well has been sited in the hope
that it will'lie up-dip from No. 7.
The statements that “the sandy
section in Rough Range No. 1
between 3370 ft. and 6225 ft. is
probably Jurassic in age,” and
that it “correlates in age with the
upper part of the siltstones
encountered in Cape Range
No. 1 between 3600 ft. and
8000 ft.,” have considerable signi-
ficance in the geological history
of the area and are yet another
proof of the complexity of that
history and of the structure of
the Carnarvon Basin ; there is no
record of Jurassic beds having
been recognised at outcrops only
a few miles away.
Another interesting piece of
information as to Rough Range
No. 1 well is that “an attempt
will be made to restore the well
to production from the Birdrong
sand between 3605 ft. and
3630 ft.”
The oil-production curve from
this stratum should give, if
properly interpreted, some very
valuable information as to the
origin of the oil-impregnation at
this point.


SBssasr
an A.N.Z. Bank
cheque account
is easier for your
wife...
In the past few years
you may have spent a
good deal of money
buying labour - saving
appliances for your
wife. But have you
thought of giving her the convenience of a
cheque account at A.N.Z. Bank?
Work out the cost of drawing 50 or 60
cheques a year, and balance this cost against
the effort and expense of paying in cash.
Consider how much easier household budget-
ing would be with A.N.Z. Bank statements
and cheque butts to show exactly where her
money goes. Think about the added confi-
dence that she would have if there were no
occasion for concern about large sums of
money left at home or carried in her handbag.
Why not make arrangements with the
Manager of the branch of A.N.Z. Bank
nearest your home to-day? ,
A*N’Z
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
Over 800 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea,
and in London. Agents throughout the World.
’ANZ.41.1328. 1
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra. >
BOOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Booms —
From 15/- per day
Double Booms—
From 27/- per day
: 7 L
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"METROPOLE,”
Telephone No. 80522
(16 lines).
Jr jJrM l JLi,
j§tp*
■■IMIIIIJ l| iKljllf f'Vl
'lf I 1 1 ’
■
m
£ ..
. ‘ 1. C*
HI
m
ifll
Wfl
fEBU j
&
m*
■■>■■*-
The “Big Three” in Sydney Daily Newspaperdom
HENDERSON, NORTON, PACKER!
By M. F. DIXON
A WITNESS told the Broad-
casting Control Board in
Sydney that the three men
who control Sydney’s four
daily papers—Henderson, Nor-
ton and Packer —are all “virile
personalities” ; and if any two
of them are allocated commer-
cial television-licences in Sydney
they can be expected to put the
same drive into it as they have
into their newspapers.
The witness, J. W. Gallery,
general-manager of Truth and
Sportsman, Ltd., should know
Ezra Norton pretty well. He
also spent a year or so in Frank
Packer’s employ and can be
expected to have sized him up,
too. One doesn’t need to know
Rupert Henderson personally to
appreciate what a ball of energy
he is to have climbed, in a few
years, from the assistant-mana-
gership of the Sydney “Herald”
to the managing-directorship of
the whole Fairfax organisation,
with the managing-directorship
of the “Sun” thrown in.
The general public, however,
know comparatively little about
the “big three” of Sydney news-
paperdom. Henderson appears
in print in his own paper only
when he makes a statement on
behalf of one of the newspaper
organisations with which he is
connected; I can’t recall ever
having seen Norton’s name in
any of his three publications,
except perhaps as a racehorse-
owner ; and Packer gets more
publicity as a ringside boxing-
judge than as a newspaper-
executive.
I had my first glimpse of
Henderson in action at a Depart-
ment of Information conference
in Sydney soon after the out-
break of World War II —a slight,
sharp-featured man sitting along-
side Warwick Fairfax and firing
questions at Major Jackson,
who was there to give news-
paper and broadcasting execu-
tives the latest “inside” informa-
tion about the war. When
Henderson wanted to know why
Spitfires couldn’t stay in the air
longer, Fairfax sought to
enlighten him by saying it was
because they couldn’t carry
enough fuel. “I know,” Hender-
son retorted curtly, “but why,
why, why?”
I met Henderson a number of
times later when the A.B.C. was
negotiating with the newspapers
for a news-service, and cherished
the hope that if he and Cleary,
then chairman of the commis-
sion, ever got to grips, I would
be there to hear it. But it never
came off. Both men had the
same kind of inquiring, tenacious
mind, and a battle of wits
between them would have been
worth seeing.
My last interview with Hen-
derson took place in the
“Herald” office when an agree-
ment between the A.B.C. and
the newspapers seemed likely to
come about. Bob McCall, then
assistant general-manager of the
commission, and I went along to
iron-out some details with
Henderson, but failed to get
anywhere. Henderson said that
if an agreement were signed we
could send a reporter to the
Herald office at stated times to
go through the proofs, but he
would have to be a senior man,
“and not make a damn’ nuisance
of himself.” That didn’t sound
as if an agreement between the
two organisations would run
smoothly; and I told McCall
on the way back to the office
that I thought the A.B.C. should
set up its own service. This came
about a year or two later; but
Henderson fought the proposal
to the last.
Tenacity should be Hender-
son’s second name. Once when
on the reporting-staff of the
“Herald” he was sent to cover
a shipwreck on the South Coast.
A “Daily Telegraph” reporter
who was also there told me after-
wards that Henderson fell in the
ocean when trying to board a
launch, went back to the hotel,
borrowed a suit many sizes too
big for him, and then got his
story.
I worked for Ezra Norton on
“Truth” more than 20 years ago,
and therefore can claim, like
J. W. Gallery, to know some-
thing about him from the inside.
Oddly enough I was on the
staff for several weeks before I
even saw him; and was rather
intrigued when the editor told
me that “the boss” (meaning
Norton) wanted me to write a
series of special articles demand-
ing a ban on the export of
Merino sheep from Australia.
The next day as I was running
through the office files a stranger
came up and asked me abruptly
when I proposed to start on the
sheep articles. My first impulse
was to ask him who he was —
then it dawned on me that it was
“the boss,” so without batting an
eyelid I replied that I was ready
to start as soon as I was given
a few leads.
I had many interviews with
Norton after that; and although
most journalists who worked
for him reckoned he was a tough
employer, I always received a
fair deal from him. He had his
moods, of course, but what man
hasn’t? Norton placed a high
value on loyalty and hard work,
and was always ready to give a
helping-hand to those who served
him well.
Although he is reputed
to have mellowed with the
years, Norton is still the main
driving-force behind his group of
papers ; and, should he get a foot-
ing in television, he will keep his
competitors on their toes.
I had my first contact with
Frank Packer in 1937, soon after
the outbreak of the Sino-Japan-
ese war. News of the fighting
was scarce and confused, and I
tried to induce the A.B.C. to
send its own man over to cover
the war. Charles Moses (general-
manager) thought the “Daily
Telegraph” might share the cost,
and asked me to see Packer.
“Merely a little local dust-up
between the Japs and the
Chinks,” he said, after hearing
my proposition. “It’s of no
interest to us, and we wouldn’t
spend a penny on it.” When I
repeated this to Moses he said
he was inclined to agree.
I didn’t meet Packer again
until shortly after the outbreak
of World War 11, when the then
Minister for Information, Sir
Henry Gullett, summoned a con-
ference of newspaper and
broadcasting representatives in
Melbourne to discuss the best
means of serving the people
with news during the war.
Herbert Brookes, vice-chairman
of the A.8.C., sat beside me at
the conference-table, and, being
fairly deaf, asked me, in a
whisper loud enough to be heard
all over the room, the names of
the delegates he didn’t know.
To avoid embarrassment I
drew a plan of the table and
filled it in. Brookes chuckled
when he came to Packer’s name.
“I thought he was a prize-
fighter,” he said in an Irish
whisper. Long afterwards I
learned that Packer had made
a name for himself in the boxing-
ring, having once won the
amateur heavyweight champion-
ship of Australia.
Journalists who have worked
on the “Daily Telegraph” say
there is no doubt, in the final
analysis, who runs the show. It
is Packer. At the moment
Henderson is one up on him in
the newspaper field, through the
“Herald’s” shareholding in the
“Sun,” but who can say what
will happen should the organisa-
tions they control each be allo-
cated a television - licence?
Another battle between two such
“virile personalities” would be
entertainment in itself.
Faith in the
Future
The measure of a people’s prosperity is the
wealth they win from farm and factory.
They may win it, and some of the backward
countries still do, with bare hands and crude
implements. Or they may gather it in more
quickly, efficiently, and with less in human toil —
with the aid of modern machinery.
Mechanisation means a greater output in
whatever field it is employed. It translates work
into “work-power”—and that is what Australia,
with its limit in labor resources, is much in need
of now.
To get an idea of what mechanisation can do,
look at America. Of more than 62 million people
employed in the labor force of the United States,
not quite seven million people are employed on
farms.
Seventy-five years ago, half the total labor
force of 17 million in the U.S.A. was working
on farms.
With fewer actual farm workers than it had
in 1880, America is able to have its granaries full
and over-flowing, after feeding an enormously
increased population.
Machinery is doing the work.
It requires no great flight of imagination to
apply this to the solution of Australia’s production
problems. The “drift to the towns” has been
acutely felt because we have been prone to think
of a farm worker only in terms of one manual unit.
America has shown that a large and populous
country can subsist with relatively few farm
workers, and still produce in surplus abundance.
As with farming, so with other forms of
industry.
An eminent Australian engineer has said it
neatly: “A two-horsepower pump will pump as
much water as five men. A 100-horsepower
bulldozer will do the work of 250 men. And a
bulldozer is much easier to feed and to hospitalise
than the hundreds of men it replaces.”
H. Hastings Deening


&
i
1 K
a i
5 5 ri r
e > n
33-3? HUNTER ST.
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
ORANGE and
TAM WORTH
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £71,000,000
YOUR WILL is first and foremost a business matter
OUR Will is probably the most important document that you will
J- ever s ig n . Failure to treat it as a business matter of the highest
importance may prove costly to your family,
The best procedure is to discuss your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited. The Company has more than 65
years experience in Estate administration and is well qualified to guide
you in your planning.
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by a Solicitor.
This will involve the appointment of an Executor and Trustee. If you
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as sole Executor or jointly
with a relative or friend —you will be following the lead of many oE
our wisest and most successful citizens.
The services Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has to offer, and
the charges, are set out in the Company’s helpful and informative booklet,
“Your Executor and Trustee.’’ ’Phone 80377 or write for a copy to-day.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.
THE heavy-chemicals industry is part
of the bedrock of our industrial
structure, and the 26-year-old 1.C.1.A.N.Z.
—an offshoot of the big 1.C.1., England
—and its 14 subsidiaries are well-
entrenched in it. The group turns out
most of the heavy chemicals, explosives,
dyestuffs, etc., which the expanding
industrial, agricultural and pastoral indus-
tries of Australia and New Zealand call
for. Moreover, the business is well
organised, highly efficient, soundly
financed, and there is a comfortable
margin between declared net earnings
and distributions, while new fields are
being opened up and old one further
developed. The co.’s ord. shares there-
fore have all the essentials of a sound
industrial equity.
The policy has been to replace imports
by local manufacture, which has meant
a big programme of plant-expansion, etc.,
and heavy capital outlay. Since the
public first gained an equity interest in
the business in 1950, £10,675,068 of fresh
share-capital (£4,156,505), share-pre-
miums (£519,503) and debenture-money
(£6,000,000) has been gathered. A
moderate dividend-policy has been fol-
lowed, the rate climbing from 5£ p.c. in
1950 to 8 p.c. last term, average for five
years being 6.9 p.c., which called for no
more than 54.7 p.c. of declared net earn-
ings. Over the same period reserves shot
up from £985,979 to £4,031,025, and an
aggregate of £3,703,860 was set aside for
depreciation of fixed assets. Paid capital
is now £13,150,000, of which £1,000,000
carries a fixed cumulative 5 p.c. Both
the pref.- and debenture-moneys are earn-
ing a lot more than their keep.
The organisation falls into four main
producing groups—explosives, chemicals,
alkalis, plastics and dye-stuffs—which
operate 14 factories centred in and
around Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide.
The New Zealand subsidiary is mainly
the distributing agent for the English
and Australian producing cos.
Last term there was a marked
revival of business activity, and
all sections contributed to a 36.3
p.c. (£8,376,000) increase in turn-
over, which reached a record £31,406,000.
Combined with steadier wage-rates and
raw-material prices, this meant lower
unit costs, to which the management
also contributed by efficient control,
research, work-study and staff-training.
Shareholders come into the picture, too,
by supplying the capital which enabled
investment in fixed assets per employee
to be increased from £1594 to £2832
over the last five years.
After allowing £1,217,539 (up £398,892)
for depreciation and £1,825,550 (up
£902,442) for taxation, the board wrote
net earnings £493,729 stronger at
£1,722,777:
t Dividends N
Year, Pref. Re-
Sept., Profit.* 5 p.c. Ord. serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
’51.. 1,460,709 50,000 7 p.c.= 584,497 1,545,348
Share premiums, £393,750 .. 1,939,098
To deferred tax. res., £128,000 .. 1,811,098
Deb. exes, w/off, £72,280 .. .. 1,738,818
Less sundry adjustments, £76,853.. 1,661,965
’52. .1,140,164 50,000 7 p.c. = 618,267 2,133,872
Reserve adjustments, £736,357 net 2,870,229
Added intangibles, £56,482 .. 2,813,747
’53. .1,229,048 50,000 7 p.c. = 705,797 3,286,998
From deferred tax. res., £47,000 3,333,998
Unexplained reduction, £51,000 net 3,282,998
*54. .1,722,777 50,000 8 p.c. = 924,750 4,031,025
* Eliminating outsiders’ proportion. f Deducting
intangibles (now £801,732).
After paying the pref. div. (£50,000)
enough of the year’s profit remained to
show 14.4 p.c. on average capital as
against 11.6, 12.3, 16.9, 10.7, and
7.3 p.c. back to 1949. That leaves
out of the reckoning movements in
reserves interlined in the table. The div.
was lifted from 7 p.c. to 8 p.c., the final
being at the rate of 9 p.c. p.a.
Continued growth and further strength-
ening of the financial position are the
features of balance-sheet figures:
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. .. £11,968,750 £13,150,000
Reserves 4,088,730 4,832,757
Debentures .. .. .. 6,000,000 6,000,000
Outside interests* .. .. 1,327,294 1,389,050
Overdraft .. .. .. 883,885 714,008
Sundry creditors, etc. .. 3,667,072 4,698,487
•Taxation, etc. .. .. 2,132,943 3,778,690
Final div. .. .. .. 462,062 528,505
£30,530,736 £35,091,497
Freeholds, plant, etc. .. 11,153,686 12,546,095
Stocks 11,427,230 11,756,475
Debtors 4,757,414 6,010,947
Shares other cos. .. 1,239,585 1,285,372
Govt, securities, etc. .. 1,151,089 2,690,876
Intangibles 801,732 801,732
£30,530,736 £35,091,497
* Includes proportion reserves.
The improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus, or net working capital
(£14,023,980), was £2,544,604. On fixed
assets £1,392,409 more was spent than
was written off, debtors’ balances in-
creased by £1,253,533, and stocks by
£329,245. To help meet the outlay and
strengthen the big holding of Govern-
ment securities, etc., by £1,539,787,
shareholders put up a further £1,181,250
(final call on the 1952 new share-issue)
and £1,031,515 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc. Further
expansion of the undertaking, already
planned, will call for the £2,690,000-odd
held in Government securities, etc., and
probably more besides.
The current term has opened well so
far as turnover is concerned. But the
co.’s application for tariff-protection in
respect of alkalis and some chlorine
derivatives has been rejected, which
means that it will meet with keen com-
petition from abroad in these fields.
Much of the price-differential between
local and imported lines is due to the
high cost of public power and transport.
At 335. 9d. (355. a year ago) the ords.
return 4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for 6 p.c. on his
money counts on a 12 p.c. distribution,
or other benefits. The prefs. at 19s. 2d.
yield 5.2 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£l7 3s. 7d. prefs. and 265. Bd. ords.
Proposed Foy & Gibson Deal
"DEJECTION of the offer by Coles for
the ord. shares in Foy and Gibson,
Ltd., the Melbourne department-store
organisation, is the latest development
in local “take-over” bids by big busi-
ness. There is said to be a “take-over”
bid when some co., or individual, offers
to buy a controlling interest in another
concern. “Take-over” is merely a
current word for a practice which
has been common since the begin-
ning of joint-stock public finance. Many
of our large public cos. have been built
up in this way. Henry Jones Co-op.,
Felt and Textiles, Tooths, Carlton and
United Breweries, and Commonwealth
Industrial Gases are cases in point.
In the retail field Cox Bros, and David
Jones recently did things in a large way,
absorbing respectively Sydney Snow Pty.
(Sydney) for about £1,500,000 and
Charles Birks and Co. (Adelaide) for
the market equivalent of approximately
£2,000,000. Coles and Woolworths, the
two big variety-chains, are constantly
hastening their growth by absorptions and
otherwise. Coles bought the Stewart
Dawson properties (Sydney) for
£859,000-odd in 1949. In the following
year it took over Selfridges (Sydney), a
rival chain, for £325,250 in scrip (face-
value), and in 1951 acquired a controll-
ing interest in F. and G. Stores Pty. (the
old O. Gilpin country retail-chain) from
Foy and Gibson, Ltd. (Melbourne), for
£1,776,000-odd. Coles then sold at a
profit the F. and G. stores it didn t
need.
On February 24 last Coles —with
whom in this instance Myer Emporium,
Cox Bros, and Rockmans Showrooms
were believed to be associated back-
stage —offered to buy the ords., or a
majority of them, in Foy and Gibson,
Ltd., on the basis of \\ Coles f.-p. ss.
ords., plus 18s. cash, for each F. and G.
£1 ord. The market-cwm-cash equiva-
lent of this offer —Coles ords. were
priced at 19s. each in the market —was
equal to 465. 6d. per Foy share, which
was backed by 465. 3d. in net tangibles
(book-value) at July 31, 1954.
Then Foy’s board announced that
other concerns had made offers for pur-
chase of the co.’s ords., and March 17
was fixed as the date when a decision
would be made on all offers then in
hand. Foy’s chairman added that the
new proposals referred to did not con-
template stripping to pieces the Foy
organisation. Neither the names of the
new proponents nor the terms of their
offers have been disclosed. Meanwhile
the co’s. freeholds are being independ-
ently revalued, and the result is expected
to be a figure substantially in excess of
their book-value.
Coles immediately made a second and
better bid, namely, two Coles f.-p. ords.,
plus 15s. cash, for each Foy £1 ord. The
cash-cwm-market-value of this offer was
£4,555,000 —£558,000 higher than the
first bid, and £577,000 more than the
net tangible asset backing (book-value)
for Foy’s £1,719,000 of ord. capital.
This offer was rejected by Foy’s
board —Coles had asked for acceptance
or rejection by March B—on8 —on grounds not
yet disclosed. However, the board sug-
gests that shareholders should await a
further announcement before deciding
to sell their shares. And there the matter
stands for the moment. Directors’
responsibilities' in this, as in other
matters, are primarily to the share-
holders whom they are elected to repre-
sent, and for whom they act. Such
matters as the loyalties and traditions of
an old-established organisation to its
employees, its customers and related
business interests come up for considera-
tion, too.
The Foy and Gibson business was
founded by Mark Foy at Colling wood
(Vic.) in 1868. The public became in-
terested as recently as 1946, when 400,000
ords. from the estate of William Gibson
were sold at a premium of 6s. each.
In 1950 the business was split in
twain. Foy and Gibson (Stores) Pty.
took the big shop at the comer of
Bourke- and Swanston-streets, one of the
best retail sites in Melbourne, together
with the stores at Fitzroy and Prahran
(Vic.) and Adelaide (S. Aust.). The 50-
year-old spinning, weaving and knitting
mills at Collingwood (Vic.) were passed
to another subsidiary, Eagley Mills, Pty.
The parent, or holding, co. also owns
250,785 f.-p. £1 ords. in Foy and Gibson
(W.A.), Ltd.
Combined net earnings, etc., of the
Foy group compare as follows over the
past four years:
Foy & Gibson and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1951 ..332,005 6 & 5 10 193,900 138,105 2,315,275
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 2,305,275
Share premiums, £70,000 .. .. 2,375,275
Intangibles appear, £45,474 .. .. 2,329,801
1952.. 116,068 6 & 5 8 165,120 —• 2,280,749
1953.. 44,085 6 &5 5 121,950 2,202,884
Profit sale assets, £19,045 .. .. 2,221,929
Unexplained reduction, £4729 .. 2,217,200
1954.. 207,083 6 &5~ 7* 164,925 42,158 2,259,358
* After deducting intangibles, £45,474 at 31/7/’54.
The abrupt contraction of profits in
1952 and 1953 was due largely to the
effects of the fall in wool prices upon
the spinning-and-knitting section of the
business. Last term’s profit was enough
to pay the pref. divs. (£36,000) and show
10 p.c. on ord. capital, or 4.4 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) as against 7 p.c. in 1951.
Here is a break-up of combined assets
and liabilities of the F. and G. group at
last three balancing-dates:
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £650,000 £650,000 £650,000
Ord. .. .. 1,719,000 1,719,000 1,719,000
Reserves .. 2,254,223 2,248,358 2,304,832
Mortgages .. 389,647 409,858 656,879
Overdraft .. .. 397,668 670,861 1,003,165
Creditors ... .. 338,537 469,781 509,497
Tax provision .. 93,063 122,234 143,239
Final div. .. 91,855 60,975 95,355
£6,005,993 £6,351,067 £7,081,967
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,450,091 1,504,032 1,575,835
Plant, etc. . . 798,736 987,596 1,078,417
Shares other cos. 247,454 247,353 251,926
Stocks . . . . 2,857,499 2,613,021 2,942,882
Debtors .. .. 581,951 932,811 1,173,112
Cash .. .. 24,788 20,780 14,321
Intangibles .. 45,474 45,474 45,474
£6,005,993 £6,351,067 £7,081,967
It is a comfortably proportioned finan-
cial structure in which freeholds are
considered to be worth a lot more than
book-value, and all other assets to be
well worth the figures at which they
appear. The pref. capital, about which
nothing has been said to date, is
in 350,000 6 per cents, and 300,000 5 per
cents.
The co’s. ords., which sold at 275. in
December, 1954, fetched 455. on March 3
last. When the market-value of shares is
substantially below their net tangible
asset-value, there is a strong inducement
for outside commercial, or financial,
interests to step in.
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
TNCREASED plant-capacity, and other
things, including a strong demand,
actual and potential, and the fact that
the co. is the only cement-producer in
southern Queensland, have brightened
the outlook for shareholders.
At July 31 last, issued capital stood
at £980,244 in 44,878 8 p.c. and 182,183
6 p.c. cumulative participating prefs. and
753,183 ords., all of £1 each. There was
then £54,919 to come on 490,122 ords.
issued at par in 1952. The prefs. rank
in the order stated for dividends and
capital, and advance point for point with
the ords. after the latter have had 6 p.c.
Those on the register have never
failed to receive an annual distribu-
tion for the last 27 years, average rates
for the five years to 1949 being 9 p.c.
firsts and 7 p.c. seconds and ords. For
the five years since the averages were
10 p.c. and 8 p.c. respectively.
The selling-price of the co.’s cement
is below that of producers in N. S. Wales
and Victoria. The works at Darra, near
Brisbane, are fed from cheap shell-lime
deposits in Moreton Bay, and coal is
drawn from the near-by Ipswich field.
At Darra work began on a new 100,000-
ton-p.a. kiln and ancillary equipment
about four years ago, but owing to
delays in delivery of plant, etc., the job
was not fully complete until toward the
close of last accounts. Total cost has
been approximately £1,000,000.
In round figures production rose from
150,000 tons in 1949 to 170,000 tons in
1951, then dropped to 152,000 tons in
1952, due to temporary slackness in the
construction trades, There has been a
marked revival of trade activity since,
and output reached a record 201,000 tons
(up 41,000 tons) for the year to July
31 last.
Selling-prices remained unaltered, but
the bigger output and steadier wage-rates
and other operating exes, reduced unit
costs last term. So, after setting aside
£84,504 (up £53,393) for depreciation
and something for taxation, net earnings
took a leap of £46,305, reaching
£98j955:
Net / Dividends. Re -
July, Profit, Pref. Ord. Total, serves.
£ £ £
1949 . 21,431 9 p.c. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. 18,052 101,952
1950 . 30,717 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ 23,224 109,440
1951 . 48,580 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ 26,938 131,087
1952 . 36,480 9 ~, 7 „ 7 „ 33,756 133,811
1953 . 52,650 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 43,733 142,728
1954 . 98,955 12 „ 10 „ 10 „ 81,596 160,087
* Excluding depreciation reserve, now £675,107.
The £98,955 was enough to pay the


CRONULLA (By the Sea)
THE “WESTELLA”
Perfect holiday accom. for 80 Guests. All
Rms. H. & O. and Inner-sprung Mattresses.
LICENSED DINING ROOM. Golf, Bowls,
Ballroom. Very near Surf and Electric
Trains. FISHING PARTIES AND PLEA-
SURE TRIPS IN OUR OWN LUXURY
CRUISER. IDEAL FOR HONEYMOONS.
Write for free and post free
Illustrated Booklet.
KINGSWAY, CRONULLA,
LB 5922.
CHIEF ENGINEER GOLD
MINE— MALAYA
A Chief Engineer is required for
underground mine in Malaya. Should
be capable of taking charge of Hydro
Electric and Diesel Electric Plants,
Mechanical and Electrical Workshops,
etc., and all maintenance of ore treat-
ment, surface and underground
installations, etc.
Salary £1,500 sterling per annum
plus cost of living allowance of £340
sterling for married status or £212
sterling for single status. Free
furnished accommodation.
Three years’ agreement with passages
paid for man and wife and six
months’ paid leave on completion.
Low Income Tax.
Apply in writing giving full details
of experience and copies of references
to —
The Raub Australian Gold
Mining Co. Ltd.,
Box 277 D, G.P.0., Brisbane.
GUARD
PROTECTA (/<
shrtl-StU ({igiiixJWtig
TILL
Suitable for every type of business It record*
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Bend for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd*
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent*— »
’ * Konnan Bros. Pty. Ltd.
PERTH IDE "tv , 7»rd° n Sc Sons Ltd.
irEKiii .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
60 YEARS
LIFE ASSURANCE
SERVICE
AUSTRALIA
METROPOLITAN LIF
ASSURANCE C? 1
*
..............
INC. IN QIAND IO3S
SPECIALISING IN OR MS OF UFE ANO
ACC/DENT INSURANCE
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. ’Phone BW 8061.
36in.
■■ j
m
r»S
V
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for* detailed_leaflet_today
GUTHRIDGE PIY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camper down,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of "Curvilinear'’
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
a GMMTofa chain saw
..in a ONE-MAN package
When you receive your Mobilco in its fitted timber
case with fuel tin, oil measure, high quality tool kit
and guarantee card, it's a good enough sight and it
spells quality all the way through ... But it is not
until you take this mighty little monster and press
the chain deep into a hardwood log that you realise
what a good machine you have got. There is light
weight here and full genuine five horsepower
performance . . . enough to keep a man going day
after day, year after year, turning timber into
profit at a minimum of toil and sweat.
Write for all the details now. They
will be posted to you right away.
'Vi
\\
■1 '
/
Ik
VC
Mobilco
ONE-MAN
CHAIN SAW
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away and without
obligation all details of the Mobilco
chain saw.
Name
Address
You can get your Mobilco on terms.
A reasonable deposit and monthly
payments well within your reach will
start earning money and saving effort
for you right away. There's the
coupon at the left. Fill it in and post
it for full details on the Mobilco.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - - - .TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA - - PHONE: WU 1081(9 UNES)
BRANCHES - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
minimum pref. requirements and
6 p.c. to the ords., and the
balance was equal to 4.6 p.c. on
average capital (pref. and ord.
combined). In view of the
improved position and satisfac-
tory outlook, the bonus-rates
were restored to 2 p.c. again, and
a further 2 p.c. was added to
compensate for reduction in the
rate to 1 p.c. for the two previous
years. Total distributions for
the year were thus 12 p.c. firsts
and 10 p.c. seconds and ords.
Completion of the Darra
filant is further reflected in a
net addition of £265,294 to the
book-value of premises and
plant, etc.:
Paid capital— 1953. 1954.
Pref £227,061 £227,061
Ord 504,077 698,264
Reserves .. .. 142,729 160,088
Depreciation
reserve .. 590,603 675,107
Staff fund .. 5,000 5,000
Creditors, tax pro-
vision . . .. 638,326 583,673
Pinal divs. .. 26,399 58,408
£2,134,195 £2,407,601
Freehold land .. 23,268 23,268
Plant, buildings .. 1,472,222 1,737,516
Shares in subsid. 11,170 11,389
Stocks . . . . 357,910 327,773
Debtors, etc. . . 143,258 181,253
Investments .. 124,574 124,574
Cash, etc. .. 1,793 1,828
£2,134,195 £2,407,601
To help meet the outlay on fixed
assets, carry an extra £37,995 of
book-debts and clip £54,653 off
the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., shareholders put
up £194,187 of fresh capital (Bs.
a share on the 1952 new issue)
and stocks were reduced by
£30,137. Investments include the
co.’s holding of £120,000 in
North Australian Cement
(Townsville), which recently
came into production, but it
might be some time before divs.
begin to flow.
When the books closed
liabilities exceeded more-or-less
liquids by £6653, and there was
11s. 2d. of outside money in the
business for every £1 belonging
to shareholders. Sales won’t need
to expand much further before
the board begins to think about
getting in more working capital
of a permanent nature.
Trade activity since the close
of accounts suggests a better
showing at next balance. On the
basis of last term’s distributions
the ords. at 38s. return 5.2 p.c.
and the second prefs. at 365.
yield 5.5 p.c. The firsts seldom
come on to the market. Includ-
ing uncalled capital, net tangible
cover is £25 Bs. 2d. firsts,
£6 Os. 3d. seconds and 245. 3d.
ords.
Associated Rural Industries,
Ltd.
IN the jargon of the market the
co.’s ord. scrip is a potential
“growth stock.” That is to say,
although part of the undertaking
is well-established and earning
attractive profits, other parts,
including recent acquisitions, are
in process of recovery from mis-
fortune, and it may be some
time before they develop full
earning - capacity. Also, the
outside debt is substantial.
All this increases the element
of risk in the scrip as an invest-
ment. So the market prices the
f.-p. ss. ords. at ss. 4d., which
includes rights to an issue of
487,500 new ss. ords. at par, one
for four, to those on the register
at March 9. Brokerage and
stamp duty eliminate any value
to the rights. The return at
ss. 4d. is 8.4 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div.
basis. Last sale of £1 6 p.c. prefs.
was at par. Including the new
issue, net tangible cover is
£6 Os. lid. prefs. and 4s. 2d. ords.
The new issue (£121,875) will
lift paid capital to £708,125 in
100,000 £1 6 p.c. prefs. and
2,432,500 ords. of ss. each. The
pref. div. and 9 p.c. to the ords.
on that lot will call for £18,243
less profit than was claimed last
term.
Formed in Sydney in 1950, the
co. took over the then 20-year-
old Australian Rice, Ltd. (paid
capital £102,478, and largest
rice-miller in Australia) for
£204,956, paying in its own scrip.
And £lOO,OOO of 6 p.c. pref.-
money and £95,044 of fresh ord.
capital was got in to help finance
expansion. The story since has
been one of profitable and rapid
growth.
Operating through 17 wholly -
or partly-owned subsidiaries and
sub-subsidiaries, the co. now has
wide interests in the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area, including
rice-milling, mixed-farming, a
winery, starch-manufacturing,
carrying, farming-machinery and
car agencies, broadcasting-station
2RG (Griffith), and rice-milling
at Echuca in the Murray Valley.
In November, 1953, all the ord.
capital in Parsons Bros, and
Co. Pty., was bought for £86,250
in scrip, plus 2s. per Parsons’
share in cash, and the receiver
was withdrawn from the Parsons’
business. At the same time
£lOO,OOO of fresh ord. capital
was gathered at par, lifting paid
capital to £586,250.
Parsons Bros, (Melb.) is an
old-established manufacturer of
grocery lines, etc., with branches
at Sydney, Brisbane and Perth.
It is claimed to have been a sub-
stantial profit-earner in the past
and to be now balancing on the
right side of the ledger. The deal
also involved acquisition of four
new subsidiaries, and with
them pre-acquisition losses
totalling £235,294. This means
that, over a period of seven years,
a similar amount of profit may
be earned before co. income tax
is payable. All these offshoots
are now said to be earning
profits.
Net earnings of the group have
stepped along in this way over
the last three years:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
June Profit.*,. Dividends.——'* serves.! -
30. £ Pref. Ord. £ £
’52 60,829 6 p.c. 7 p.e.=27,000 93,835
Preliminary exes, written off,
£143 93,692
Loss sale assets, £l7Ol .. 91,991
Tax overprovided, £11,600 .. 103,591
Add net reserve adjustments,
£671 104,262
’53 71,808 6 p.c. 7J p.c.=28,500 147,570
Preliminary exes, written off,
£5762 141,808
Capital profits, £158,288 .. 300,096
Tax overprovided, £4lB . . 300,514
Unexplained addition, £ll9l 301,705
’54 78,974 6 p.c. 8 p.c.=39,842 340,837
* After eliminating outside shareholders’
interests. f Subject to intangibles,
£444,480 at 30/6/’54.
After allowing £29,768 (up
£13,608) for depreciation and
£49,617 (up £296) for taxation,
last term’s net earnings were
£13,139 stronger at £78,974. That
was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 17.2 on average ord.
capital as against 21.9, 18.2 and
18.1 p.c. back to 1951. It is an
encouraging performance con-
sidering that the last £100,000
of cash-paid capital was at work
for only the last half of the term.
The div. was lifted from
p.c. to 8 p.c., and an
interim at the rate of 9 p.c. has
been sent out for the current
term. The source of the £158,288
of capital profit is not mentioned,
but further contributions of this
nature to reserves are expected
to follow sales of some of
Parsons’ properties no longer
required.
The big movements in balance-
sheet figures mainly reflect the
Parsons’ deal and introduction of
fresh share capital: —
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid
capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
& & &
Pref. . . 100,000 100,000 100,000
Ord. .. 300,000 300,000 486,250
Reserves . 93,835 147,570 340,837
Outside
interests 117,639 112,697 230,721
Mortgages,
etc. . . 41,566 87,011 66,815
Overdraft . 169,939 257,005 607,981
Creditors . 298,491 372,445 545,622
Tax pro-
vision . . 103,495 56,862 54,259
Final divs. 13,500 15,000 22,450
1,238,465 1,448,590 2,954,935
Land,
building 266,151 316,560 406,808
Plant,
machinery,
etc. . . 93,146 112,143 249,632
Investments 228,030 209,046 93,713
Stock .. 314,787 346,816 652,773
.Debtors . 141,369 214,926 595,970
Cash,
advances,
etc. . . 68,989 112,361 11,559
Intangibles 125,993 136,738 444,480
1,238,465 1,448,590 2,954,935
When the books closed there
was 26s. 4d. belonging to
mortgagees, the bank and sundry
creditors at risk in the business
for every £1 belonging to share-
holders. The new share-issue,
already referred to, will help to
relieve the position.
To what extent the co.’s entry
into the dry-goods field, where
competition is keen and margins
narrow, will boost future profits
remains to be seen. Much will
depend upon economic develop-
ments over the next few years.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Saddened and shocked by the tragic
nature of the floods in N.S.W., the
people of this city are giving magnifi-
cently to the Flood Appeal for money
and clothes.
In several city streets and outside the
Town Hall tarpaulins are spread so that
passers-by may drop in a donation. City
theatres have also arranged for collec-
tions after every show, and in every
office and shop money is being collected.
Streams of people, from early morn-
ing until late at night, are arriving at
the office of the “Herald-Sun” in News-
paper House with donations. Red Cross
headquarters is a scene of great activity,
with many helpers assembling the vast
quantity of clothing sent in. Lady
Brooks, wife of the Governor, has done
her share of packing large bags with
clothing for those in flood areas.
At a time like this all border-barriers
are down.
☆ ☆ ☆
When Jill, second daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. C. O. Ross Fenner, of Meningie
(S.A.), married Dr. Ben Jervois New-
land at St. John’s Church, Toorak, she
wore a slim-fitting gown of white satin-
brocade, with the fullness at the back
falling into a train. Her full-length tulle
veil was held by a satin circlet trimmed
with pearls, and she carried a bouquet
of tiger-lilies. Her bridesmaids, Wendy
Stamp, of Dunkeld, and Barbara Mc-
Nicoll, were daughters of those who had
attended the bride’s mother at her
wedding. Both wore long white taffeta
frocks tied with deep-blue sashes. They
carried baskets of white flowers trimmed
with blue bows. The bridegroom, who is
the only son of Mrs. S. I. J. Newland,
of Medindie, Adelaide, and the late Mr.
Newland, had Tony Gwyn Jones as best
man.
Reception was at the Toorak home of
Brigadier and Mrs. R. R. McNicoll. Mrs.
Fenner wore a slim-fitting frock of beige
eyeletted cotton and a forest-green velvet
curvette, Mrs. Newland slate-grey crepe
with a white felt cloche trimmed with
navy feathers. Mrs. McNicoll’s choice
was a floral-patterned black-silk H-line
frock and a pillbox hat of red velvet.
☆ ☆ ☆
John, only child of Mr. and Mrs.
Garnet Carroll, is not likely to forget
his 21st birthday, for on that day he
was not only given a party and a car
by his parents, but reecived from his
doctor news that he was completely
cured of the poliomyelitis which attacked
him two years ago. For the party the
garden of the Garnet Carrolls’ South
Yarra home was illuminated, and those
who left the ballroom between dances
walked in the garden or chatted in the
beautifully-decorated reception-rooms.
The 200 guests included John’s young
friends, family friends who have known
him since childhood, and naturally many
theatrical friends, including visiting
American actor Melvyn Douglas.
Mrs. Carroll wore a bouffant gown of
filmy-black Chantilly lace, and among
those she and her husband received were
Lady Blarney, T. T. Hollway and his
wife (she wearing a short frock of pastel-
toned silk printed in muted tones of
mauve and blue), and Mrs. Alan Benja-
min (who teamed a white guipure-lace
blouse with a wide skirt of cinnamon-
brown faille).
☆ ☆ ☆
Guests-of-honor at a cocktail-party
given by Dr. and Mrs. W. Calanchini in
their Toorak home and attended by 80
guests were Mr. and Mrs. John Seward,
of Perth. The hostess wore a pleated
frock of ice-blue satin, the bodice having
a boat-shaped neckline. Mrs. Seward’s
full-skirted off-the-shoulder frock was of
scarlet satin. Among the guests were
Mrs. John Mullany, whose teal-blue lace
frock had the pattern outlined with braid
in a deeper blue ; Mrs. Jim Davis (Suva),
in a suit of black velvet and small black
feather-toque ; Mrs. Dick Marron, whose
black, pin-tucked chiffon frock was worn
with a black pillbox cap; Mrs. Paul
Rowan, her choice blaek-and-gold-
striped satin ; and Marie Daly, who wore
accordion-pleated scarlet chiffons.
☆ ☆ ☆
There was a hint of autumn in the
fashions worn on the first day of the
V.A.T.C.’s carnival at Caulfield. A
number of suits had the emphasis on the
hipline; some of the jackets bloused
above the definite hiplines. There were
small hats of winter-white in the new
satin-plush, and there were frocks cut on
the Princess-line in soft angoras and fine
tweeds, some with narrow belts which tied
at the back.
Mrs. Norman Robinson wore with her
lightweight black-wool frock a little
winter-white hat. Mrs. Kenneth McLean’s
Scottish pastel tweed-suit was in heather-
mauve and blue checks; her softly
peaked velor hat was in the same mauve
tonings. Mrs. A. C. Shortt matched her
lightweight navy with a pill-
box hat; Mrs. lan Miller chose a long-
sleeved winter-white jersey-frock trimmed
with smoky buttons and a head-hugging
white hat. Mrs. John Reilly’s choice
was a storm-grey suit and white satin
cap. Mrs. Ivan Holyman’s black suit
had velvet facings and pockets, and was
worn with a cyclamen velvet hat.
Chosen from 300 girls to play the title-
role in “Time Out For Ginger” opposite
Melvyn Douglas is 15-year-old Joy,
elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A.
Mitchell, of Cheltenham. Five years
ago she and her sister Jill came here with
their parents from England. Educated
at Hampton High School, Joy became a
pupil of Irene Mitchell, and made her
first appearance on the stage of the Little
Theatre. “Time Out For Ginger" is now
running at the Princess. Helmut Newton
photo.
In opening the conference of the Aus-
tralian Advisory Council for the Physi-
cally Handicapped Lady Slim said that in
these days of Welfare State there was a
tendency to think that personal interest
in the physically-handicapped was no
longer necessary. But it was just this
personal interest which gave these handi-
capped people the human sympathy and
comfort essential to their happiness.
Lady Slim, who is patron of the coun-
cil, came from Canberra to open the
conference. She wore a simple afternoon-
frock of black silk-shantung with a small
coral-pink cap trimmed at one side with
pink-edged white petals. She was
received by the president of the council,
Mr. K. F. Coles, and Mrs. J. G. Norris,
vice-president of the Victorian Society
for Crippled Children. Other official
guests were Sir John Latham and Lady
Latham, Sir Peter McCallum, Lady
Herring, Judge Norris, and Mrs. K. F.
Coles.
☆ ☆ ☆
Nearly 200 guests were at the party
given at No. 9 Darling-street, South
Yarra, by Mr. and Mrs. Richard Linton
in honor of Mrs. Linton’s daughters
Barbara and Lindy Challingsworth. Both
girls looked lovely in strapless gowns.
Barbara’s was of sea-green organza, the
bodice encrusted with pearls and
sequins ; Lindy (who made her debut at
the dance) chose a bouffant gown of
layers of pink, blue and white tulle. The
bodice, of pastel-pink satin, was
embroidered with pink sequins. Mrs.
Linton wore Kelly-green organza, the
off-the-shoulder bodice highlighted with
green sequins which continued in a panel
down the centre of the skirt. Lady
Linton’s gown of azure-blue French-
crepe was embellished with silver bugle-
beads.
SYDNEY
Appeals for flood-relief have domin-
ated activities during the week, and in
every office,' shop, factory and home
people are giving freely to help those
who have suffered so much in the
disaster. All the biggest organisations of
women are working on the sorting and
dispatch of clothing, while even the
smallest committee-meeting makes some
gesture in offers of money or other help
for flood-victims.
☆ ☆ ☆
Autumn flower-shows have begun,
and if the rain has not wrought too
much havoc among gardens they should
be some of the treats of the coming
weeks. Anthony Horderns’ Staff Garden
Club had its show last week and made
an excellent display in the firm’s art-
gallery. Dahlias, asters, gerberas, gladi-
oli and roses were included, and there
were delightful flower-arrangements,
some using quaint containers, such as
tiny half-opened boxes. Six horti-
cultural societies contributed entries to
the show, and the winner in this section
was the St. George Horticultural Society.
The prize for the best flower of the show
went to Mr. G. Unsworth’s hybrid
cactus dahlia, “Marcia Jeannette.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Before the opening performance of
“Madame Butterfly” at the Palladium no
one could talk of anything but the heat,
but in the intervals and after the show
the beauty of the singing was at least
equal-favorite as a topic of conversa-
tion. The musicians didn’t wear coats
(very wisely), and after the first act even
conductor Warwick Braithwaite shed his
coat, much to the relief of the audience,
who were full of sympathy for him.
Surely there is some way of reforming
men’s evening-wear for summer. In
Italy it is quite correct (so it is reported)
for men to wear lightweight trousers
with tailored pure-silk shirts to formal
functions, and this seems exactly what
is needed in Australia.
Australian soprano Sylvia Fisher is
making her first homeland tour since her
brilliant successes as opera-star at Covent
Garden and in Europe. Overseas she has
been acclaimed as successor to Lotte
Lehmann, particularly in the role of Mars-
challin in “Der Rosenkavalier,” the role
in which Sydney audiences will see her for
the first time on March 19 with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra. She will sing [?] the
special concert at the Town Hall in aid of
flood-relief on March 20, a date which
has special significance for her, as it is
her first wedding-anniversary. Her hus-
band, Signor Übaldo Gardini, is accom-
panying her on her tour.
Mrs. Arnold Hirst, the new president
of the Sydney Symphony Orchestral
Committee, welcomed Miss Sylvia
Fisher at the reception held in her
honor at the A.B.C. Theatrette, at
which Mr. Max Rostal, British violinist,
was also guest-of-honor. Two new
members who have been elected to this
committee are Mrs. Norman Jones and
Miss Beatrice Wines.
☆ ☆ ☆
The fact that when singer Johnnie Ray
arrived in Sydney on Sunday he was
mobbed by 10,000 or so boys and girls
makes one wonder what has happened
to that old line: “Laugh and the world
laughs with you, weep and you weep
alone.”
Sr ☆ ☆
Lady Slim was guest-of-honor at the
musicale arranged by the Women’s
Auxiliary of the Royal Empire Society
during the week, when Lady Berryman
welcomed the guests. A special feature
of the function was the beautiful arrange-
ment of the flowers, mainly consisting of
pink Madonna-lilies and flowers in pink
and red shades. Those responsible were
Mrs. D. A. Sinclair, Mrs. Alec Rigby
and Miss Ida Morgan. The musical
programme, arranged by Mrs. H. Twig-
gen, was provided by Miss Marie Tysoe,
Miss Margaret Hughes and Mr. Colin
Berensen.
Other distinguished guests-of-honor
at the Royal Emipre Society reception
were Viscount and Lady Chandos, who
were entertained on Friday. Lady
Chandos looked cool and composed in
spite of the heat, which she said she
loved. She wore a dress of green-and-
white-check nylon with a wide collar and
a shady hat of green faille. This is her
third visit to Australia with her husband,
who was Oliver Lyttleton, Colonial
Secretary, until about 12 months ago.
Viscount Chandos gave a short and lively
speech in which he suggested that we
should retain the word “Empire” along
with “British Commonwealth,” as we
are the largest association of free nations
the world has ever seen.
Lady Berryman greeted the guests with
Mr. W. J. Bradley, president of the
society, and among those present were
Lady Spender, Mr. and Mrs. R. Scam-
mell, Mr. and Mrs. Norman Jenkyn, Mr.
and Mrs. Vincent Brady and Miss
Margaret Gillespie.
☆ ☆
There is a splendid exhibition of modern
and antique table-settings at David
Jones’ Gallery at present (Friday is its
last day, though), arranged in aid of the
Kuringai Karitane Child Welfare Mobile
Clinic. Those who remember the interest-
ing antique-exhibition organised by the
committee for this clinic last year should
not fail to see this exhibition, where the
pieces are shown as they would be in
use, and arranged with great taste and
skill.
☆ ☆ *
The Garden Club’s speaker at its meet-
ing during the week was Mrs. Georgie
Freeman, who had made many examples
of novelty-animals from fruit and vege-
tables to illustrate her talk, which she
called “The Animals Noah Forgot.”
Among the most curious were a “reluc-
tant dragon” Jinade of cucumber and a
red pepper), a real banksia-man (quite
terrifying)* and an ostrich-like bird whose
head was a strelitzia flower. This quaint
art-form is full of amusing possibilities,
especially for parties, and is worth trying.
The president of the Garden Club,
Mrs. Arthur Davis, is planning a trip
to Japan next month and will make a
a special study of flower-arrangement
during the four or five weeks she is there.
At the meeting she said that apparently
the art of Japanese flower-arrangement
is at present undergoing a complete
change, and that the triangular, earth-
and-heaven style which we regard as
orthodox Japanese-style is rapidly becom-
ing outmoded and regarded as “old-
fashioned.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Seen in the city, a truck with a huge
advertising-sign on it “Don’t Argue!”
and the front of the truck all bashed in!
☆ ☆ ☆
The little word “comic,” defined with
some reserve by the Concise Oxford as
“laughable—or intended to be so,” is
coming in for a good deal of abuse these
days and is in danger of losing its true
meaning completely. Frequently linked
with the word “horror” (and the word
“horror-comic” is surely a contradiction),
it is classed with unpleasant words like
“indecent” and “obscene,” whereas its
true associates are such words as ‘ gay,
“festive,” “revelry” and “laughter.” The
children growing up now may never
realise what “comic” once meant, as
witnessed by the four-year-old who said
during the week to this Letter, We
saw pictures of the floods in the big
comics that Mummy and Daddy read.
☆ ☆ ☆
The first function of the Bank of
N.S.W. women’s auxiliary will be a man-
nequin-parade at St. Michael’s Hall on
March 16. This auxiliary raised £2OOO
for the Blind Society last year and is
aiming at that target again this year.
President for 1955 is Mrs. H. C. C.
Marshall, and new members of the com-
mittee are Mrs. R. R- Mackellar and
Mrs. Stuart Richardson (vice-presidents)
and Mrs. F. A. Harper (joint honorary
secretary). It was Mrs. Harper, inciden-
tally, who last year won the scone-maxing
contest which resulted in the auxiliary
raising about £7OO of its quota.


OLD MASTERS
Renowned private collection of
oils and watercolours for sale.
Write
COLLECTOR,
P.O. Box 1021, BRISBANE
r
HUDSON HORNET, 1952
Fully imported sedan. Complete with
all imported extras, including wireless.
Immaculate condition. Upholstery perfect.
One owner. Mileage 18,000. Price £2OOO.
Telephone Sydney FBI 602
or write to
G.P.0., Box 3695, Sydney
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 3025 AND BW 1073
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW ZEALAND
WELLINGTON REGISTRY
In Divorce
D. No. 297/54
TO KATHLEEN VERONICA IZZARD
formerly of Sydney but now of parts
unknown the wife of .ALEXANDER
IZZARD of Wellington Seaman.—TAKE
NOTICE that a petition by your husband
praying for dissolution of his marriage
with you on the ground of desertion has
been filed in the Supreme Court at
Wellington New Zealand and that unless
within 28 days of the date of this
publication you file in the said Court
an answer to the petition you will not
be entitled to be heard on the petition
except on questions of costs custody of
children maintenance or other ancillary
relief and the Court may proceed to hear
and determine the petition in your
absence Further that until you have
given an address for service in manner
provided by the rules of Court you will
not be entitled to receive notice of any
proceedings or documents or to address
the Court at any stage A decree for
dissolution is made by decree nisi in
the first instance and until such decree
nisi is made absolute the marriage is not
dissolved A decree nisi is not a defence
to a charge of bigamy A copy of the
petition and a notice will be supplied
to you on your applying for the same
at the Supreme Court Office at Welling-
ton. DATED at Wellington this 10th
day of February 1955. —J. L. W.
GERKEN, Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly
requested to forward to her the foregoing
advertisement.
GEORGE CECIL KENT is Solicitor for
the petitioner, whose address for service
is at the offices of MESSIEURS KENT
& WEBB, Barristers and Solicitors, 109
Customhouse Quay, Wellington, New
Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JACK FREEMAN late of O’Connor’s
Drovers’ Camp Warren. —TAKE NOTICE
that CECIL . JOSEPH JAMES LEWIS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No, 4694
of 1953 on the ground of his wife’s
adultery with you and if you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 13th May 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. 11. M. SYMONDS
& BRITTEN, Solicitors, 16 George Street,
Parramatta. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO GEORGE HILL formerly of BONDI.
—TAKE NOTICE that HANNAH EVA
HILL has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 336 of 1955 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter _ an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
15th day of April, 1955 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge
from GREGG & MILNE, Solicitors, of
4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Legal Notice
IN THE COUNTY COURT AT
SHEPPARTON.
TO NORMAN BRUNO SIMPSON formerly
of Undera in the State of Victoria
latterly of Rottnest Island Western
Australia labourer.—JTAKE NOTICE that
a plaint has been entered and a summons
issued against you in the above County
Court by GEORGE HENRY GODDEN of
Undera aforesaid labourer in the sum of
£144/-/- for money paid on your
account and an order has been made that
the publication of a notice of the entry
of such a plaint in “The Bulletin”
newspaper published in Sydney in
the State of New South Wales and
in the “Age” newspaper published in
Melbourne in the State of Victoria shall
be deemed service of the summons upon
the said NORMAN BRUNO SIMPSON
The summons shall be heard at Sheppar-
ton on the 24th day of May 1955 at ten
o’clock in the forenoon and if you do not
appear in person or by your solicitor at
the time and place mentioned such order
shall be made and proceedings taken as
the Judge may think just and expedient.
DATED the 23rd day of February 1955.
—GALLOWAY STEWART & O’TOOLE,
Tatura, Victoria, Plaintiff’s Solicitors.
The name Is
CalUuns
c
the
whisky
Scots cOhist,
wm
m
w
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC2I/3.Z.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Nolan in Italy
From the Via Ludovisi, where
the green plane-trees grew and
the iron door-knocker for some
inscrutable purpose —perhaps to
annoy small boys or to please
giants—hung eight-feet up in
the air, Rome fell down the
back-streets in a cascade of
Italians, cars and innumerable
little motorbikes so incredibly
confused that it is no wonder
the policeman on his black-and-
white soap-box, controlling it
all with whirling arms like the
conductor at grand-opera, had
no perceptible effect on it
whatever.
Further and further down the
cascade there was a little cobbled
street with no footpath; only
the stones were worn smooth at
the edges where the wiser pedes-
trians, occasionally disen-
tangling a stray motorbike from
their legs, kept close to the walls.
Through a dark passageway
under scaffolding where a new
building was climbing to the
light, or an old one being
propped up; into the basement
of the Foreign Press Club ; and
there at a table sipping ver-
mouth with Albert Tucker, the
bearded former president of the
N. S. Wales Contemporary Art
Society, and a lithe young
Italian who had once been a
prisoner-of-war in Australia and
had escaped and walked down
the banks of the Murray, and a
blonde American girl who taught
at the Foreign Language School,
and the courteous red-headed
Tony Powell from the Australian
Legation, and a vivid, dark,
exquisite creature whom every-
body called Carmen or some
name equally appropriate —there,
with his picture of the Centralian
desert, was Sidney Nolan.
And again in Venice. Just
over the stone bridge crossing
the canal by the Hotel Budapest,
where the gondolas with accord-
ions and tourists and lanterns
went singing into the night,
hurrying past the shop where
the glorious dolphin swam in
golden Venetian glass—there,
with his wife, at six-o’clock on
a morning of silver steam, was
Sidney Nolan.
And now at Sydney Mac-
quarie Galleries, with crucifix-
ions and bones of martyrs, with
Roman arches and aqueducts,
with something striped brown-
and-white that might be the
Duomo and Giotto’s bell-tower
in Florence (only where are the
green and rose?); with the hot
Centralian colors of an “Etrus-
can Cemetery” (only where are
the heat and luminosity of Ital-
ian summer air?); with 37
quick little sketches, lacking in
fineness though abundant with
verve, more like a child’s sketch-
book than that of a serious
artist (perhaps that is the inten-
tion) —there, in his paintings if
not in his person, is Sidney
Nolan, for one’s third encounter
with this wandering Australian
in six months.
After which, it is a pity not
to like the sketches more. But
dramatic though they look at
first glance in their mortuary-
black mounts, they are mostly
too sketchy for this reviewer’s
taste. Nolan has always been in
too much of a hurry ; and it is
only when he lingers, as at the
green and watery impression of
“Paestum,” with its headless
statue over the pool, that one is
tempted to linger with his art.
D.S.
Stage and Music
“Madame Butterfly”
When Lieut. Pinkerton
(Ronald Dowd) strolled on stage
in the N. S. Wales National
Opera’s production of “Madame
Butterfly” at Sydney Palladium,
it looked as though the U.S.
Navy of 1904 allowed its junior
officers to go on honeymoon-
leave in white uniforms that had
just been slept in. Then U.S.
Consul Sharpless (Neil Easton)
appeared in clothes also reduced
to flops by the worst steam-
bath night of summer.
It says much for the morale
of all concerned that throughout
the torrid night singing and act-
ing stayed at a high standard.
Gladys Mawson sang beautifully
and brought to the title-role a
charming mixture of coyness and
alarmed shyness, and then, in the
final phase, acted with dramatic
intensity.
The operatic tenor is the
darling of composers,, and may
usually leave in his path a string
of ruined women without losing
the audience’s sympathy. Faust,
the Duke of Mantua, the Baron
Eisenstein and a host of others
have jfot away with it for years.
But in “Butterfly” Puccini turned
dog on the tenor. Nobody has
any sympathy for Pinkerton, the
Perfect Cad, who even brings
Mrs. Pinkerton No. 2 back with
him to flaunt her before the
gentle Cho Cho San.
The role of Kate Pinkerton,
incidentally, is redundant, for
Sharpless has already disclosed
to the maid Suzuki that Pinker-
ton had married an American.
All she (Kate) has to do is
register compassion as she briefly
looks at her supplanted rival —
a most unlikely emotion —mutter
a few banalities and drift off-
stage. It is a jarring note, and
it is time the role was discarded.
Paris opera bumped it out long
ago.
Puccini poured into this opera
his finest music for concerted
numbers: the fine duet between
Sharpless and Pinkerton soon
after curtain-rise ; the splendidly-
proportioned love-duet which
closes the first act; the Letter
Duet between Butterfly and
Sharpless; the Duet of the
Flowers between the two girls.
These were all very well sung,
and in the Duet of Flowers the
orchestra excelled itself in the
“waiting motive” music, where
the horns play softly against the
pizzicato strings. Elsewhere, too,
Warwick Braithwaite’s forces
demonstrated again the big
advance that has been made in
this department.
Two of the best make-ups seen
in a “Butterfly” for many years
were those of the Suzuki of
Justine Rettick (whose work was
altogether admirable) and Robert
O’Donnell as Goro.
As Pinkerton, Ronald Dowd
was convincing enough in the
love-scenes. He is always willing
to give his singing all he has, and
his top register was working very
well. Neil Easton was manly,
but could have unbent more as
Sharpless ; his baritone is taking
on more weight and depth.
+!♦ ■£♦
Beethoven Finale in
Melbourne
As a climax to the Beethoven
Festival at Melbourne Town
Hall, Bernard Heinze, encour-
aged and possibly inspired by
reinforcements from the Royal
Philharmonic, launched his
orchestral cohorts on a final
assault on the vast edifice of
Beethoven’s music and the most
tremendous example of it —the
Ninth.
At that supreme moment in
the finale when Beethoven seems
to have said everything that
could possibly be said in the
way of instrumental joy and
beauty, so that one feels that
something else is needed, the
human voice comes in. In this
case it was the voice of Alan
Eddy, which was not quite equal
to the occasion—but whose voice
would be?
Nor were Erica Burkevitch,
Patricia de Burgh and tenor Alan
Ferris quite adequate, except
when they sang together; but
the ladies and gentlemen of the
Philharmonic were tremendous.
Bit by bit Sir Bernard’s baton
built them up almost to a state
of Bacchic frenzy, and the ensu-
ing silence was as shattering as
the preceding noises.
The Pianoforte Concerto
No. 2 ill B Flat Major, Op. 19,
produced Igor Hmelnitsky, in a
cream tuxedo. Born in Java,
Hmelnitsky lives in Sydney. The
cream tuxedo was new to Mel-
bourne, no previous virtuoso
having ever dared to wear one,
even in & heatwave, but after get-
ting over the shock the audience
listened to a crisp, stylish but
not very deep performance and
gave the pianist half a dozen
recalls.
(j&
Fiddler's Five
Our tempered scale is obliging
with every key. There’s a price
on this freedom, however:
though enabled to play in all
keys, in no key do keyboard-
instruments play quite in tune.
Not being hitched to a
keyboard, a string-quartet is one
team able to scorn all truck with
tonal compromise. For this
reason it was a pity the A.B.C.
string-quartet should have begun
its third concert so tonally off-
beam. Science has not yet armed
music-critics in the way it has
racing-judges, and until tape-
recorders are standard equip-
ment it’s best not to say just
whose fault it was. ,
While not of the milksop-
Mozart persuasion, there was too
much of an 0.p.-spirits kind in
the playing of the C Major
quartet. In contrast to this vigor,
when phrases were cut into
Mozartian snippets the overall
line was often buried ; though in
themselves the snippets were
elegantly played.
In the Prokofieff No. 1, too-
savage assault became a virtue.
As for sins of intonation, many
Prokofieff chords probably
sound no worse, if no better,
played out of tune. It was a
relief to end the super-tropical
evening with Schubert’s A Minor
—much better played.
A merely tropical evening
started everyone off in better
sorts for the fourth concert.
Things began with Haydn’s “The
Rider.” If this is tragic by
Haydn’s yardstick, it is not so
beside the torrents of gloom
which became fashionable in the
19th century. The close offers a
fine old show-off to the first-
fiddle ; except for a couple of
semi-fugal bits, the others merely
accompany with respectful pop-
pings interspersed with squeaks
of admiration. “Just my cup of
tea!” Mr. Llewellyn seemed to
say, and took it very allegro con
brio indeed.
Unlike Prokofieff, Walton uses
instead of abuses the string-
quartet form. His A Minor
quartet makes virtues of limita-
tions, not kicking against them.
This composer goes in for
tangled rhythms which verge on
hot jazz. But where jazz-players
navigate by stamping the beats,
classical players may not. How-
ever, in the heavier squalls of
syncopation it could be seen that,
inside its glossy shoe, at least one
big toe helped guide the player
with a refined but rhythmic
wiggling.
At one point the first-fiddle
barks crossly and the others
retort in angry unison. It sounds
like a bus-conductor herding
passengers off the platform.
“Won’t start, then,” First-fiddle
snaps. “Bus can stop here all
day.” Seriously, though, in such
astringent passages it’d be
interesting to hear fiddlers drop
their vibrato. Having once got
the knack of it, they seem unable
to turn it off. Unsensual music
surely calls for unsensual tone!
Miss Lois Simpson made up
the fivesome for Schubert’s
quintet in C. She has the rare
female accomplishment of look-
ing pretty while playing a cello
as big as herself. Ironically,
Schubert had allotted her some
grumpy comments on the ravish-
ing upper tunes. This work is a
fit swansong for the world’s
greatest writer of songs. It was
well done.
G. P.
*z* ♦>
Lieder Singing
A good exposition of lieder
by Schubert, Brahms and
Richard Strauss was the salient
feature of Mary Blake’s singing
at N.S.W. Music Lovers’ Club’s
Sydney concert. Miss Blake is
well equipped —her big-range
mezzo-soprano is rich in quality,
effortlessly produced and is fed
by a keen intellect; also, her
work gains greatly from crystal-
clear diction.
An outstanding song was
Schubert’s “Aufenthalt,” in
which the singer finely captured
the spirit of deep longing and
despair inherent both in Rell-
stab’s text and Schubert’s music.
Brahms’s “Feldeinsamkeit” and
“Mein Liebe Ist Grun” were
splendid examples of well-
sustained lyricism, whilst
Strauss’s “Zueignung” was
emotion projected with refined
restraint. In contrasting mood
was an aria, “Ah, Quel Diner,”
from a rarely heard opera of
Offenbach, written in the French-
man’s wittiest style.
Talkies
“The Egyptian” (Regent):
Any similarity between the
Gyppo physician of a Pharaoh
portrayed here and the Sinuhe
of Mika Waltari’s novel is purely
accidental. The pure will rejoice
that the tavern-girl who was
wont to share a nocturnal mat
with Sinuhe has reformed and
become a lofty-souled young
woman who worships her hero
silently, sorrowfully and from
afar—probably because Holly-
wood considers that Jean
Simmons looks cuter registering
soulfulness. Victor Mature rants
overmuch as the soldier-
Pharaoh Horemheb, but Edmund
Purdom- manages to put some
sinew into the role of Sinuhe.
Scenery and settings are splendid.


Lazy Walkabout
by PETER BLADEN
Travelling per pushbike and
"lifts,” and sporting a beard {as
protection, he says, against flies
and other things), Peter Bladen
has visited and described the
goldfields country, portraying the
fine and picturesque and odd
characters he continues to meet,
such as Pop {a former circus
clown), various hard-doers, and
new and old friends, including
George and Mabel, Big Bob and
Mort and others he mentions.
He explores away from the
beaten track, making discoveries
of his own at such places as
native missions and lonely
stations, and sighting such things
as a gate famed for the bad
language on it. He waits at
Norseman for a lift that will
take him over a tough stretch
of 'his "lazy walkabout” ; he
has already been a little way on
this run by bike, meeting the
Paynes, but has been given a lift
back.
NORSEMAN TO EUCLA
“....and for once Wylie admitted
that his belly was full. He com-
menced by eating: a pound and a
half of horse-flesh, and a little bread,
he then ' ate the entrails, paunch,
liver, lights, tail, and two hind
legs of the young kangaroo, next
followed a penguin, that he had
found dead upon the beach, upon
this he forced down the whole of
the hide of the kangaroo after singe-
ing the hair off, and wound up this
meal by swallowing the tough skin
of the penguin; he then made a
little lire, and laid down to sleep,
and dream of the pleasures of eat-
ing, nor do I think he was ever
happier in his life than at that
moment.”—from Eyre’s Journal, May
18, 181,1.
ONCE again I was waiting.
I stayed in the little flat
with all mod. cons.,
helping to water the
gardens of beautiful dahlias, and
making friends with Timmy, the
battered dog, and I went visiting.
Pop was looking forward to
the Anzac celebrations, referred
to by cynical teetotallers as “the
Annual Swim Through Norse-
man.” And on the corner-bench
I met many more characters,
while waiting for the Madura
petrol-truck.
Timmy would keep me
company, even though the
weather was turning bleak. He
was a good fighter. Dogfights
are still a common sight in the
streets of Norseman, as they were
in most of the early-day mining-
towns, and Timmy is one of the
local champions.
His battles have left him with
a wicked leer. He is a dark cross-
breed, with a mixture of
Pomeranian and kelpie at least,
featuring half-closed eyes, and a
mighty fang which forces his
mouth to curl in a perpetual
snarl, but he became affectionate
towards me, whether on account
of some mince-meat I had given
him, or basing his regard on
prospects of more, I cannot tell.
He would patiently wait for
scraps when I was eating, but
if I deserted him to dine in a
restaurant he would become
offended and return home. In
the morning he would join me
again, and I began to feel an
answering affection for him.
Dogs have one thing in
common with people. When
they are loved, appearances count
for little. I didn’t mind the
wicked leer, and became as fond
of my little companion as though
he had been the sleekest animal
in creation.
The weather was bad, and the
roads to the East and West be-
came almost impassable. One
day a car struggled in from the
highway with a passenger
aboard, a young chap who was
heading for the Kwinana oil-
refinery, in a utility and caravan,
with his mate. His favorite
expression was “My colonial
oath! ” The utility was stranded
with mechanical trouble half-
way between Madura and Balla-
donia, and Lew had thumbed a
ride in, hoping to pick up spare-
parts and return to his mate the
same day. We waited together.
That night it was announced
on the wireless that the Madura
petrol-truck had overturned
south of Coolgardie. No traffic
was coming through because of
the rains, and our waiting con-
tinued. We were never alone for
long. There was always someone
to tell us a life-story, or to listen
to our troubles. The number
of Timmy’s victims increased.
Every passing dog was an excuse
to display his prowess.
At length we became desperate.
Lew’s mate had little food and
water, and, hearing that a car
had gone through town one
night, we went to the police-
station, and the sergeant phoned
Balladonia to have some stores
sent to the stranded mate.
The sergeant had news for us.
Roy Gurney, from Eucla, had
arrived in town with a truck-load
of cattle for the local butcher.
It was only his second visit to
Norseman.
The sergeant took us both in
his car to the abattoirs to
introduce us to the man from
Eucla.
We found him a wiry and
cheerful chap, wearing a wide-
brimmed “rancher’s” hat. The
sergeant explained our predica-
ments, and said that he knew Mr.
Gurney wasn’t partial to giving
lifts, but, after the glowing
recommendations he gave us,
few men could have knocked us
back. Roy said that he and his
brother were returning soon after
lunch and arranged to meet us
in town.
So we bought our stores and
said our farewells, to the faithful
Timmy, to George and Mabel,
the sergeant and the storekeepers,
the teachers and the school-
children, and the newspaperman,
to Mort and his family, Big Bob,
and to my friends at the hotel,
kind-hearted folk who said I
would find them still in the same
place if ever I returned, for they
are comfortable people content
to live in a groove, and a
peaceful and pleasant groove
they have found for themselves.
Soon after noon Roy and his
brother came in for a farewell
dnnk. Pop joined us at five
for a porter-gaff. Someone asked
him for a match and he replied:
“If I had a match for you I’d
start a circus.”
At eight Roy said: “We’ll be
shoving off soon.”
We were joined by “temporary
Australians” [New Australians
who ride motor-bikes], and
miners, men from the garage and
other passing friends. One chap
mistook me for a man who had
been around setting dog-baits,
and another told us he
had got so full over the
weekend that he had
had to be bailed out.
I have often
wondered why there are
so many blank pages
at the end of some
books, and decided that
mine would have one
at least, in tribute to the
wise and wonderful
things which were being
said, punctuated with
Lew’s “Colonial oaths,”
and which I would never be able
to remember.
A fire warmed the bar, and the
stories became more lively. Roy
said he was having a wonderful
time. One character asked me
to write a poem on his coat,
which was hanging on the bar-
room door, but he couldn’t walk
that far to retrieve it. His eyes
grew sad.
Then I met a man who had
written a symphony. He is a
Scot, working on the mines as an
engineer. He said that his soul
depended for sustenance on wine
and song. The symphony was a
glorious crescendo, building up
on the power of industry and the
life-force of men at work, the
voices of the executives and the
bells and the accident-alarms, the
whjning and crashing of
machinery adding together until
a mighty climax was reached.
After eleven we finally got
going and my long period of
waiting was at an end.
There were stores and petrol-
drums on the back of the truck.
The others sat in the cab, and I
was on the back wrapped in a
tarpaulin, nearly freezing. We
lurched on through the darkness
until at three-o’clock Roy said:
“We might as well camp for the
night.” “My colonial oath!”
said Lew.
Fog was creeping through the
trees. There were silhouetted
branches and phantom trunks,
with shadowy etchings against
the rolling clouds of white, and
there were rainbows around the
moon. We built huge fires about
a hollow log. Roy and his
brother had been without sleep
for nearly two days and nights
and Roy fell asleep before
supper. Later he fell asleep
sitting up, and, again, bending
over with his hands on his knees.
In the morning the log was
still burning and the fog was
retreating behind the trees.
There was dew on the ground,
the birds sang and there was a
beautiful clear sky. We warmed
our hands and stood with our
backs to the fire.
It was 7.30 when we left.
Once I chanced to look at my
foot and found that the constant
friction against one of the gates
which had been used to pen the
cattle on the truck had worn a
hole through the leather of my
shoe.
Silver cobwebs spanned the
low bushes, and shadows from
the roadside trees flitted across
my face. Later I felt so happy,
turned to the breeze, that I
sang, becoming so dizzy with
excitement that I had to hang
on to my perch on the back of
the truck.
A ’roo crossed the road ahead
of us. Once we stopped to chop
some gate-posts, and did a
maypole-dance around a gum
with bark in trailing streamers.
A van passed us. It was a
mighty vehicle, the largest
removal-van in Australia, we
were told. It carries the furni-
ture of twenty-five rooms. The
driver and three passengers were
breakfasting in the cab, with
plenty of elbow-room to spare.
You could almost have held a
dance on the roof of the van.
A lady in the cab remarked:
“You’d think this would be a
dull journey, but you hear the
stories of everyone you pass on
the road!” And we exchanged
gossip for a while. Several cars
had overturned and several more
were stranded along the road
ahead waiting for spare-parts to
reach them.
Once again we came to “the
naughty gate,” passed my old
camping-spot, which was looking
wet and forlorn, and lunched at
Dugan’s Lookout, with a burn-
ing clump of spinifex for our
fireplace.
Lew, fishing in his bag of
stores, which had been kicked
into position many times on the
back of the truck, found that the
eggs had fallen out of their
packet and were lying loose
amongst the tins and the
potatoes, miraculously without
breaking. Someone suggested
that the potatoes must have been
keeping their eyes on them. No
one else was using the waterbag
from which I had been drinking,
and on inquiring I leamt that
they “all knew what had hap-
pened to it while the cattle were
aboard.”
Again we followed the endless
ribbon of road. Cloud-shadows
mottled the countryside, and my
thoughts went flying at random
in the wind. Waves of love for
our vast bewitching land over-
came me. I would jolt myself
back to reality. After all, it’s
only a patch of earth the seas
haven’t covered up, I would tell
myself, and I probably preferred
it for the same reason that I
had liked the battered Timothy
—some of its features were a
little more peculiar than those
of other countries, and because,
for all the harsh and barren
wastes, the country had never
treated me unkindly.
Harsh and barren! I chided
myself. There was more beauty
in a single glimpse of these
lonely regions than in the lushest
garden of roses. Such depths
of sky, and such memories of
the courageous men and women
who had pioneered the land!
Beauty is a poor word to describe
the wealth of feelings which
overwhelm the spirit at such
times.
Bubbles and her father were
away when we called at Balla-
donia. Mrs. Payne said that the
line to Eucla was out of order,
and we made telephone-tests
with a portable set after leaving
the station. The manager of
Mundrabilla had joined us at
Balladonia, and Lew sat on the
back of the truck with me.
Thirty-six miles out we came
to water-tanks with an iron roof
for catchment. There were many
autographs and remarks in
pencil, paint and lipstick:
“Hyah, boys • • • seven trips—l’ve
had it!” “Camped here the


night. Only drawback the lack
of water”; the autographs of
“B. O. Plenty” and “Joe
Palooka” ; “Around Australia —
Carnarvon, Darwin, Mt. Isa,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Home Sweet Home”;
good caricatures of “the Rath-
bone family” ; and one hopeful
soul had left an ad.: “Lost two
cats at Woolandra. Finder please
give the cats a good home. One
is a black cat and one a tabbie.”
Five days ago a kitten had
walked into Balladonia from the
bush and had found a
kind mistress in Mrs.
Crocker. I wondered
whether it had walked
from Woolandra . . .
“The cheapest tele-
phone-call in the world!”
the manager of Mundra-
billa said in disgust. “Do
you know, the station-
owners have the tele-
phone-service in return
for the upkeep of the
line? Making one repair
recently I used up forty-
four gallons of petrol.”
To the north of us was
the Trans railway-line and
the level treeless plains,
and to the south the miles
of cliff fronting the ocean,
a wild and rugged coast-
line, with many memories
of shipwreck: Twilight
Cove, where the Twilight
and the Swift were lost;
of the Franklin, the
schooners Ettie and Agnes
and many others; “the
land of Peter Nuyts,” first
sighted in 1627.
The Nullarbor Plains
themselves were “dis-
covered” by Edmund
Delisser, the surveyor,
in 1866, who coined the name
from the Latin words nullus and
arbor, signifying “no trees.’/ The
native name for the coastal
areas is said to have been “Bunda
Bunda” (possibly meaning “many
high cliffs”).
Roy had several shots at a
white dingo, but it escaped.
There were many ruts in the
road, and everything on the back
of the truck bounced around and
shifted position. We estimated
that there were about 50 miles
of potholes at one stage. Several
times we had to stop to adjust
the load.
It was dark when we pulled up
for a chat with a tourist from
Toowoomba. The conversation
turned to politics, and there on
the dark and lonely road we had
almost a political rally. Roy
called me Captain Moonlight
because I made a few notes on
the trip without using a torch.
“Water is often so scarce out
here,” someone said, “that you
often have to decide whether to
cook your cabbage in the bath-
water or bath in the cabbage-
water.”
At the 208-mile tanks we found
a hut and stove, the catchment-
roof and the tanks, and built a
fire for the billy while Roy tested
the telegraph-line, checking the
various joins, and calling first
Balladonia and then Eucla, and
finally snapping the wire, so that
we all had to give a hand to join
it again.
“My colonial oath,” as Lew
remarked, it was cold on the back
of the truck. He continued:
"I’ve even got goose-pimples on
my goose-pimples.”
We wrapped ourselves in
blankets and the sleeping-bag,
and when we finally reached
Lew’s caravan we built a huge
fire, and I practically sat in it,
but still I couldn’t get warm.
My hands and feet were numbed,
and I was feeling too chilled to
be sociable.
Lew’s mate, waiting there, was
little the worse for wear. He
said that he was out of water
again, and seemed quite pleased
to see us.
Later we made camp by a
fallen tree with huge roots, and
built a fire which would have
gladdened the hearts of the
young on Guy Fawkes night.
Flames raced along the limbs,
consuming the bark, with sparks
showering out, and the warmth
slowly enfolded us. We had
another meal, and Roy fell asleep
on his back on the bare earth by
the fire.
In the morning we found that
we had camped on a bullants’
nest. The fire was raked
together, but we were out of
water, so breakfast was delayed
until we reached Cocklebiddy.
There are stone-house ruins at
Cocklebiddy, where once a store
sold petrol and food, and there
is an underground tank, fenced
in with barbed-wire, with a
circular iron-roof for catchment.
We were 160 miles from Balla-
donia and about 30 from
Madura, our next stopping-place.
The cliffs run inland at
Madura, and there is a stretch
of bitumen road leading down
the Pass. We stopped to admire
the view, and to retrieve my hat,
which the wind had playfully
removed. At the foot of the
Pass the road turns right towards
the Madura Motel, over a mile
along a dusty track.
At the motel we met a young
lady just learning to walk, and a
cat which vibrated to the tip of
its tail whenever it purred.
Twenty-seven miles to the south,
over the plains, lay the sea. The
cliffs stretched away to the east,
in an endless succession of bays
and capes.
The others had whisky at the
little bar, and I had a very flat
porter-gaff. An artist-relative
of the station people has
decorated the walls of the bar
and the lounge with murals, line-
drawings with suggestions of
color, depicting the Pass, with a
caravan complete with smoking
chimney and aerials, a fat woman
pushing a car uphill, a chap on
a bike loaded-down with all the
paraphernalia in the world, even
to a tennis-racquet, a bogged
car and a camel-train, a girl
thumbing a lift from an old chap
with a wheelbarrow ; and under-
neath, the motel, with the in-
going people happy, and the out-
comers staggering, the two
petrol-bowsers and the outdoor
showers.
. There were faces framing the
mural, of flappers and clergy-
men, convivial trios and gossips
and even a surly one here and
there.
The murals in the lounge
summarised the whole trip from
Perth to Adelaide, from the
beaches in the west, through the
wheatlands to the mining-towns,
with suave types hiking along the
Eyre Highway carrying suitcases,
and the Flying Doctor,' ’roos and
wild birds, and natives by the
railway-line, on to the miner
with his pick at Iron Knob, and
Adelaide, the City of Churches.
A notice in the bar confronted
us: “Do not bring tyres into
the lounge. We want you to
regard this place as your home
while you are here —please treat
it as such.”
It was getting warm again, and
there were many crows around.
The road led along the flat below
the cliffs, which here resemble
scrubby sandhills, through salt-
bush and tea-tree, bluebush and
spindly timber, a straight and
level road.
Near a gate and grid we turned
off towards the cliffs, to Mun-
drabilla station, a mile and three-
quarters away at the foot of the
cliff-face.
Mundrabilla (Mundra Bella,
or “dusty ground”) was estab-
lished as a pastoral run by the
Kennedy brothers and McGill,
travelling overland from Albany
with 1000 sheep in the early
1870’s, with a sailing-ship fol-
lowing them up with supplies.
Leases at Madura and Moopina
(with its homestead only two
miles from the Eucla jetty) were
taken up in the next few years.
The runs would have done
well, except for the trouble in
getting the livestock to market.
By 1889 Madura had been prac-
tically abandoned, but there were
25,000 sheep at Mundrabilla, and
with the opening of the goldfields
a good outlet was found for
produce.
McGill’s first wife and baby
daughter were buried in a lonely
graveyard not far from the
Mundrabilla homestead . . .
Lunch was awaiting us —
mutton-chops! I felt hungry
enough to eat several sheep, and
remembering the appetite of
Eyre's native, Wylie, realised that
the feat would be humanly
possible.
The homestead, an old stone
building, with the kitchen-block
separate and a hot-water system
consisting of a big drum with
a wood fire, and the woolshed
six miles out, and stone ruins
with small window-holes, said to
have been designed as a protec-
tion against ambush by natives,
were all built on the old road
which ran close to the cliff-face.
I was now able to sit in the
cabin with the Gurneys and
found the ride more comfortable.
We passed the Kangaroo Plains
tank, and Roy fell asleep at the
wheel, so his brother Dudley
took over. It was just over 60
miles from Mundrabilla to
Eucla.
Twenty miles from our
destination we had to do a Boy
Scout act. Two young chaps
had crashed on a motor-cycle
the day before, and it was
arranged that we should take the
machine in for repairs. The sun
had set and it was dark when
we commenced our struggle. It
was a big bike, and the front
wheel wouldn’t rotate. Both
forks were smashed, and it was
a wonder that the two young
chaps hadn’t been killed. We
had to move the bike up one of
the wire-gates to get it aboard,
pushing and hauling
and lifting.
Further along
we stopped to collect
some tools and gear
from a car which had
had to be abandoned
by a native family.
The road before
Eucla was slippery
with sand and it was
late when we arrived.
At the garage behind
the old telegraph-
station, now the home-
stead, there was a great
commotion, with Roy
counting his children
to make sure he had
kissed them all, and
everyone trying to
decide whether to talk at once,
or fall asleep on the spot.
EUCLA TO COORABIE
With staring eyes and blistered
feet
And stomachs out of order,
Half-dead with sand, flies, dust
and heat,
We crossed the S.A. border.
—lnscription on an Overland
tank.
TT7HEN Delisser mentioned
’ ’ water to the natives in
1866 they pointed eastwards,
uttering a word which is found
in a variety of forms, as varying
as Yercla, Yirgella and Yirculyer.
Some consider it was a coastal
point, or the name of a morning-
star seen rising oyer these sand-
hills.
When he discovered springs
near the coast, Delisser bestowed
on them the name now known as
Eucla. The place, he said, was
“an available harbor on a coast
so inhospitable and dangerous
.... it was thought to be inacces-
sible from the sea.” It is 444
miles from Norseman and 634
from Port Augusta by the direct
road.
Delisser and his brother are
little remembered, but their work
was a prelude to Forrest’s
journey overland in 1870, and
to the gradual opening-up of this
new territory. When the Over-
land Telegraph Line was estab-
lished in 1877 Eucla became the
border telegraph-staJlon.
This line was then the only
communication-link between the
west and the outside world. In
its heyday, at the turn of the
century, telegrams increased to
a total of 6000 in a day, with
25,000 words for the newspapers,
all transmitted manually. It was
quite a township, with even such
amenities as billiard-rooms and
a theatre-hall. Different times
were kept by the Western Aus-
tralian and the South Australian
telegraph-operators, even though
they shared the same room.
Eucla today is a ghost-settle-
ment, almost lost in the encroach-
ing tides of the sandhills. The
telegraph-office was closed about
30 years ago. Several pastoralists
have tried sheep here and have
failed. The Gurneys have taken
over the run in the last few years,
and the old telegraph-buildings
serve the purposes of petrol- and
tyre - stores, homestead and
sleeping - quarters for the
passengers travelling on the
overland bus.
My visit coincided with that
of the bus, and we met the
passengers who were off on a
moonlight jaunt across the sand-
hills in search of some of Eucla's
“ghosts.”
It is a small community. Apart
from the Gurneys, I met Mrs.
Scott, an elderly lady who teaches
the children, and Mrs. Dormer,
the housekeeper. A traveller on
the road who had seen me,
wearing my beard, in Norseman,
had warned the folk at Eucla
that in a few days they would see
a Biblical character on his way
through, and Mrs. Dormer had
been picturing the historic meet-
ing between “Great Scott and
Holy Moses.”
There were cats everywhere in
the house. Mrs. Dormer t spent
most of her time putting‘them
out, catching them under tables
and cupboards, and poking them
with brooms/ flying after them
into the next room, or down the
passage, and as she would open
the door to put one out, two or
three more would come in.
When she rattled the plates or
sharpened a knife, cats came in
hordes from every conceivable
quarter.
She was a cheery soul, and at
the sound of a vehicle would be
off like a shot to man the petrol-
pump. She said she was called
“The Doormat” more often than
“Mrs. Dormer,” and the name
was appropriate, at least in
regard to the fact that
“Welcome” was; written all over
her face.
Many idiotic questions are
asked by overlanders, some of
whom seem to think that the
people at Eucla are numskulls
because they live away from the
city. Some are surprised to learn
that the mailman and the baker
don’t call daily. One chap said :
“It’s a little different from
Sydney!” They speak in
patronising tones to the children,
as though believing they have
never read books or heard of the
outside world.
There were rainbows around
the moon again, but they disap-
peared when I rubbed my eyes.
None of us stayed up very late.
In the morning after breakfast
(it was better, said Mrs. Dormer,
than a bush breakfast —that is, a
glass of water with a fly in it) I
went for a walk over the sand-
hills. They are dazzling, as white
as snow, wind-swept and
hollowed into ridges, fantastic
white mountains of sand.
Some of the old buildings have
altogether vanished. Protruding
ruins of walls and chimneys mark
the site of others. A wooden
platform and long - disused
railway-lines can be seen in the
sandhills, and the jetty has little
use now except as a perch for
seagulls.
It was a beautiful sight, the
sandhill ridges snaking away,
white - pinnacled and sun-
shadowed, the far blue-grey of
the capes along the coast, and
the deep-blue of the water and
the sky, with the long grey arm
of the jetty stretching out to
sea.
Not far from the homestead
are fences beneath the sand, and
a little graveyard with picket
railings. Here John Muir was
buried in 1878, and there are the
graves of three children, the
small marble crosses now almost
lost in the tides of sand.
We had many “cuppas” dur-
ing our stay. The Gurneys are
hospitable people.
A bird fluttered into the
kitchen and cats went jumping
wildly in all directions.
o Continued on next page)


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bony Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDSEXCEED £16,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BW 8131 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
E 3
eg
c=3 fo
CG
-s
©
Two big Holden popularity
y
s
.
MJlil
Durability and consistent economy
of operation are two big factors in
the popularity of Holden Utility.
Writing from Stanmore via Woodford,
Queensland, Mr. A. A. Miller, a timber
contractor says: “My Holden Utility ...has
given me over 30,000 miles of trouble-free
motoring. I cover some very rough country,
but at no time has my Holden let me down".
Mr. H. G. Millard, Paint Supplies Co.,
Grote Street, Adelaide, says his utility
.. has now covered 26,000 miles entailing
a great deal of stops. Petrol consumption
has consistently been over 30 m.p.g. . . "
Only Holden Utility combines this economy
with six cylinder power, 21 h.p. perform-
ance, a low list price, high resale value, and
nation-wide availability of low-cost factory
guaranteed parts and service. In view of
the very heavy demand for Holden Utility
we would suggest you place your order as
soon as possible.
HOLDEN SALES LEADERSHIP
Official sales figures for 1954 show that
14,511 Holden Utilities were registered
during the year, compared with 4,355 regis-
trations of the next most popular model.
To speed up delivery and meet the ever
increasing demand for Holden, GMH is
now proceeding with a further £7£ million
expansion programme.
HOLDEN*
AUSTRALIA’S OWN UTILITY
LIST PRICE £B5O PLUS TAX
AUSTRALIA’S OWN
PANEL VAN
LIST PRICE
£865
PLUS TAX
* Convenient GMAC hire purchase arrangements are available.
* There are two Air Chief car radios specially designed for Holden. aus
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throuehout Australia
:
We helped Mrs. Dormer to get
water from the underground
tank, with bucket and rope, and
loaded the truck with empty
petrol-drums. Roy and Dudley
were on their way in to Fowles
Bay to fetch a load of petrol,
and I was to accompany them.
Out of Eucla there is another
bitumen pass, and the road
climbs the steep grade to
continue along the plateau
behind the cliffs. A few miles
on we came to a van which had
been stranded for 13 days wait-
ing for spare-parts which Roy
had brought out with him from
Horseman. A married couple
with a little boy were camped
by the van. They had had a
dreary wait.
We came to the border, 4511-
miles from Norseman. On the
road which links the two States
an imposing gateway has been
erected, not by the Government,
but, appropriately enough, by the
travellers who use the highway.
On each side of the road are
piles of stones, as rugged as their
builders, with a facing of battered
signs and an old-tyre motif,
embellished with tins and broken
bottles and with many inscrip-
tions, mainly from the labels of
foodstuffs.
In 1831 the eastern boundary
of Western Australia was fixed
at 129 degrees east longitude,
and in 1836 the western boundary
of South Australia at 132 degrees
east longitude. The strip of
country between the two
boundaries was left formally
under New South Wales. It
wasn’t until 1861 that the land
south of 26 degrees latitude,
through which we were now
passing, became South Australian
territory.
I crossed the border with
mixed feelings. The road was
sft. wider, but there were no
longer any mileposts, and the
timber was less plentiful. It was
my first excursion outside my
home State for nearly two and a
half years.
We passed two underground-
tanks, and headed a heifer, which
Roy had spotted in the bush, in
the direction of home and the
waterhole.
Roy was dozing again and so
was I. Later we pulled up at the
Diamond Bore (Albala-Karoo),
by an underground-tank with a
windmill and cattle lowing
around a dry trough. We
watered the thirsty herd and I
went walking. There is a
diamond deep in the earth at the
old bore. The drill broke before
water was reached and opera-
tions had to be suspended.
Roy went after another dingo.
While we were awaiting his
return the stars came out in a
clear sky, and a red moon
appeared at the horizon.
Every 11 or 12 years there was
a cycle of bad seasons, Roy told
me. In 1930 there was “a
daddy,” but the seasons had been
fair for the last 18 years or so.
Now a crippling drought was
expected. Little rain had fallen
during the year.
The windmill had been erected
only a few months before, but
already there were bullet-holes
in the blades, testifying to the
spirit which seems to move many
overlanders. One city lady with
a kindly, rather than a destruc-
tive, turn of mind is said to have
remarked, when observing some
sheep lying near such a wind-
mill: “Aren’t the farmers kind.
They even provide their sheep
with fans in the hot weather!”
It was getting late when we
arrived at the turn-off to
Koonalda station, which the
Gurneys had established seven
years before, and where I was
to meet Cyril and his family.
In 1897 Richard Thelwall
Maurice, the explorer, undertook
a journey westwards from
Fowler’s Bay to search for Fairie
and Wooley, two Englishmen
who had landed on the almost
unknown coast to venture inland
with the object of taking up
pastoral leases. They were
ignorant of the hardships ahead
and ill-equipped for their task.
No one has ever satisfactorily
solved the mystery of their fate.
Their memorials are one or two
doubtful relics and local
conjecture.
Maurice quoted his friend Bill
Yoke, in his journal: “A man
who wants to travel this country
for pleasure will go to hell for a
pastime.” He mentioned visit-
ing various rockholes, and “the
diamond-drill,” camped near a
blowhole, and proceeded to
inspect a cave which his native
guide said was a large one, at the
“northern end of a vast lime-
stone depression in the plain
some 150yds. long, 100yds. wide
and at least 150 ft. deep.” He
continued: “The cave contains a
big subterranean lake of salt-
water,” but owing to want of
candles Maurice was unable to
further his explorations.
There are many caves and
blowholes in this area. Some,
marked on the maps, would
seem to indicate the course of
underground rivers. The natives
said that Chinana, a great
serpent, came down from the
north and lived in the cave, and
they were afraid to venture there.
It is a wonderful cave. Tunnels
lead in from the depression,
winding underground for over
3000 ft. There are salt-lakes
300 ft. down, 60ft. to 80ft. deep,
lakes of brackish water, and
even an underground mountain
180 ft. high, separating two of the
lakes. The furthest extremities
of the cave haven’t been
explored. The Gurneys had
an unenviable experience on one
occasion when they were ship-
wrecked on one of the lakes.
Old-timers laughed when Roy
decided that some of the water
would be good enough for stock,
but the brothers lowered gear
into the cave, established an
“engine-room” and pipeline
underground, and began pump-
ing the water to an overhead
tank. Koonalda must be one of
the largest of Australia’s known
caves, and possibly the only one
from which water is pumped for
the watering of stock.
“When we first came here we
didn’t have a straight stick to
make camp,” Roy declared.
Now the run and the homestead
are well established.
The family was at tea when
we arrived, and it was like walk-
ing in on a Christmas scene from
Dickens. In the anteroom were
three young natives, Sheila the
housegirl, Wallace and Timothy,
who could have been the shy
scullery-maid and the “boots.”
In the large cheery kitchen fly-
and moth-coils suspended from
the ceiling were like festive
decorations; old Mr. Gurney,
with his red cheeks and cheery
face, and fluffy white hair with
two ringlets high on his fore-
head ; a small bright chap was
the host of the party; and there
were Cyril, with his kindly face,
and Audrey, pale and demure,
and the five smaller fry on their
high-backed chairs.
Koonalda was to be my home
for several days until Roy left
for “the Bay,” and a happy home
it proved to be. At night I slept
in a hut built from railway-
sleepers, a sturdy and com-
fortable hut.
The Gurneys have inventive
minds. Many are the ingenious
devices which aid them in their
solitary work. One of the most
unusual has so far been nipped
in the bud by Mrs. Gurney. Roy
is keen to air-condition his home
by means of a pipeline from a
near-by blowhole. His wife
objected when he planned to
build the house over the blow-
hole, but he still has the scheme
in mind.
The days were spent mainly in
carting water from the tank near
the cave, and in rounding-up the
sheep into the paddocks where
water was available. Koonalda
is outside the dog-fence, and
dingoes are a constant menace.
Each day fresh carcasses would
be found, or skeletons in the
bush, and traps and baits were
laid. It was the lambing season,
but water and feed were such a
problem that it seemed profitless
to save the lambs to be an insup-
portable burden to the hungry
ewes.
The brothers rounded-up the
sheep on truck and motor-bike.
I remember, one evening in a
gale, trudging through the bush
with Dudley until our feet were
blistered, collecting the stragglers
and feeling like a very bedraggled
Pied Piper.
One day I went exploring to
the cave, and sat on a rock in the
sinkhole in the sunlight, until I
decided that I didn’t like the
look of the jagged boulders
perched overhead. I had climbed
down a rickety ladder and found
the sinkhole eerie, with Wallace’s
cough echoing from above, and
a hissing in the grass near by
which I thought must be a 10ft.
snake, but which proved to be
the water whispering in the pipe.
I followed the pipe into the
high-roofed cavern beyond, and
saw by the light of a feeble torch
where it plunged downwards
through narrow black tunnels to
the water far below.
There were other depressions
and blowholes in the vicinity. It
is a place where it pays to walk
cautiously. Idriess has given a
full description of a visit to the
cave in his book Across the
Nullarbor. It is surely one of the
strangest features of an unusual
stretch of country.
In the little yard behind the
house the children were bottle-
feeding the new-born lambs.
Each morning several would
fail to respond to their call.
Crows squawked from the trees,
and the water from the lake was
becoming too brackish for the
more fastidious sheep.
The men would return at night,
dusty and tired, and sometimes
we were out long after dark
setting traps for the dingoes,
while the stars would appear
soon after sunset and all the
world seemed still and calm, the
hills, shrubs and a few solitary
trees in silhouette against the
vast bowl of the sky, the painted
clouds and the clear wash of the
darkening blue. A motor-bike
would hum far in the distance.
After tea we would join in the
washing-up, Sheila at the basin,
and Dudley and myself side-
stepping with the tea-towels,
nimbly trucking back and forth
until we had all but evolved a
“Washing-up Square Dance.”
One night Frank Clune called
in on his way back east, to regale
us with stories of his journey
via Carnarvon. After the rains,
he said, the country was so
beautiful that you could get
down on your hands and knees
in the lush growth, not to be
close to Mother Nature, he con-
tinued, but to fill your stomach.
He had arrived with an appetite,
and the next meal couldn’t be
served soon enough. He sang to
us a Pagan song after tea, and
we were all so surprised that
no one applauded.
Audrey was making the bread,
and lemon-yeast shot out all over
the kitchen. She said: “We’ll
have to buy new clothes for the
children soon if we don’t get
some water for washing.” The
drinking-water was being carted
and the supply was nearly
exhausted.
Roy showed me his treasures:
a 91b. piece of ambergris which
he had picked up along the
beach while following fox-
tracks at Eucla; a first-class
boomerang; and a Bible which
a traveller had found at Ivy Shed
(Continued on page 34)


The Black Paradox
By
Henry Lamond
THE sun hitched himself
clear of the horizon, and
in a flash of a second swept
up all blurred shadows and
indistinct shades; he cut its
boundaries as with a razor, kissed
the waving grasses, picked out a
line of timber along a dry creek
—the only trees in that vast
landscape.
His probing fingers outlined
the body of a crow perched high
on a coolibah along that creek.
He turned that figure into a
cameo of jet, flashed green
flames from its plumage, probed
deeper as the wind blew the
leaves aside and showed the
crow’s mate sitting on a nest.
That crow had no eye for the
beauty of the birth of day: it
turned its head to preen its
plumage, grating harsh feathers
as they rasped through the
mandibles of the beak.
The mate sitting on the nest
was similar in all appearances
except that she —and it may be
presumed it was a female —had
a white marble for an eye instead
of one of the usual hazel hue.
They each would measure just
on twenty inches from the tip
of the beak to the end of the
tail. They were commonly
supposed to mate for life. They
may have done so. No one
man’s life was long enough to
measure the marital fidelity of a
crow. The crow completed his
toilet, looked about him,
stretched his wings, rustled them
as he tested the muscles. Perhaps
he debated mentally where he
would breakfast: there might be
bogged sheep or stranded fish in
the drying waterhole in the
creek; there were always possi-
bilities at the killing-yard at the
station; odd snacks could be
picked up at unexpected spots.
Kelly gave a croak deep as the
passionate lovesong of a bull-
frog; dropped from bough to
bough; landed on the ground,
hopped on his short stubs of
legs as he went to the waterhole
for a drink. He had his drink,
picked up odd morsels which
were so small he did not need to
swallow them—they slid down
his gullet. Then, after ponder-
ing for a moment or two, his
wings sliced the air. He fol-
lowed bird-ethics: he called a
couple of times when he took to
the wing.
Kelly flew on, and the air
shrieked its agony as those heavy
wings of his oared through. He
flew towards a place, six or eight
miles away, where he had marked
a dead sheep yesterday. He had
no need to call on his powers of
location to find that corpse:
kite-hawks circled above it; odd
ones slanted to the earth in long-
drawn streaks of brown —they
were as good as a beacon to
indicate food on the ground
below.
Kelly landed beside the body.
He was alert, poised for any-
thing, complete master of him-
self, not a feather out of place.
A dozen kite-hawks stumbled on
their stumps of legs with much
the same action as that of a man
walking on his knees; several
other crows were there; an old-
man goanna hissed, flickered his
forked tongue from its basal
sheath. There was plenty of
food. There were many to share
it.
jfELLY hopped jauntily to
where a kite was tearing at
the bare flesh under the butt of
the sheep’s tail. The kite hissed,
meowed the shrill protest of a
weak kitten, threw itself on its
back, twitched its talons as they
writhed.
Kelly edged off and joined the
other crows near the head of the
sheep.
The goanna came in and dined
gluttonously: he placed his fore-
feet on the body on each side
of his jaws; he took hold with
his teeth, tore off chunks of
putrid flesh, swallowed and came
back for more. The hawks sliced
slivers of meat with their cutting
beaks. The crows hopped in,
snapped scraps, jumped back,
swallowed what they had
snatched. They fed with both
eyes alert for danger all the time.
Kelly ate his fill —ate until he
could swallow no more, till his
wings whistled as they tried to
lift his body. He had gorged
too heavily to rise in the air.
That was easy: Kelly arched his
neck, half-spread his wings,
voided part of his gorge. Then,
after testing his wings, he picked
up an odd scrap to take home
with him in his bill.
That night the four greeny-
grey eggs, speckled and mottled
at the larger end, gave way to
four palpitating lumps of naked
flesh, all gaping mouths and bare
bellies.
Kelly and his mate were busy.
Those four babies never ceased
to whine for food. Beetles,
berries, stranded shrimps, strips
of flesh which stank, sundry
lizards and other odds and ends
were delivered to the chicks,
which squeaked for more.
Kelly decided to go to the
killing-yard at the head-station.
That was more than twelve miles
away, even as a crow was
supposed to fly.
He joined the collection of
crows and hawks which hovered
there from daylight to dark.
Constant sheep and odd bullocks
were slaughtered there to provide
rations for the staff. Scrap-ends,
offal and other oddments, were
dragged away, left to the
scavenging birds, burnt only
when those birds failed to keep
the stench within reasonable
limits.
That was an easy living for
Kelly. The food was virtually
spread on a table for him to
come and help himself. He made
return trips to and from his nest
so often he almost wore a track
through the air. He had to be
alert. That was not an educa-
tion : it was an instinct with him.
He knew a glint of metal in a
man’s hand meant a firearm.
Almost he could distinguish be-
tween a rifle and a gun, gauge
the range of each. It was part of
his breeding to know a speck of
metal under disturbed earth
meant a trap in the ground.
Kelly knew all those things. He
was egotistical enough, too, to
know he was the object at the
other end of those snares.
He and his whole tribe could
count up to three. If three men
went to the yard, and two
returned, Kelly kept out of gun-
range. He let the blundering
kite take the charge which was
meant for him. But if four men
went to the yard, and three came
back, Kelly’s limit of calculation
was passed.
Kelly did not bother about
improving his education. His
business was food —sustenance
for himself and his family in the
nest in the coolibah. He turned
over a lump of meat which
uncovered a mess of squirming
maggots. Those maggots would
later develop into blowflies.
They didn’t! Kelly gulped them.
He and his kind worked strenu-
ously, and found a pleasure in
their tasks, to keep the world
clean, destroy noxious things.
TiILLY the butcher complained
" to Dick the horse-boy:
“Them crows is gettin’ too thick.
You got nothin’ to do all day,
Dick, on’y dodge th’ boss. How
about killin’ some crows?”
Dick was willing. He set a
trap at the yards. He caught one
fool crow. Dick, to amuse him-
self, tied a strip of red rag round
that crow’s neck before he let it
go.
That crow, when released,
fairly rocked in the air as it tried
to get away from the horror of
the rag about its neck.
Another crow saw it. That
onlooker gave the alarm —an
order which all must answer.
The crows strung through the
air, calling as they flew. They
shepherded the decorated crow;
blocked its efforts to escape;
forced it to alight on the bough
of a near tree. The others loaded
that tree with black fruit in
feathers as they deliberated.
The law was adamant: Freaks
must be destroyed!
The jury of crows sat in judg-
ment. They called; they shifted
perches to make room for fresh
arrivals; they came to a
unanimous decision.
The culprit crow cowered as
it huddled in the centre of the
mob. A black blanket of feathers
enveloped it with a rush. When
the mob dispersed a bit of red
rag lay on the ground; black
feathers floated in the wind ; bits
of flesh were strewn about the
tree.
The law had been obeyed!
Dick caught another crow in
another trap. He put it on top
of a post, back down, laced it in
that position with wire about its
wings. .
Another crow saw the captive.
The alarm was sounded. Black
ribbons in flight converged on
the tied crow. They were calling,
condemning, jeering, demanding
justice.
One hovering crow lowered
itself, its beak ready to stab, its
feet treading air as it drifted over
the captive crow. Its feet felt for
a footing. It touched the tied
crow before it settled.
Bedlam broke loose! The
crow which had intended to act
as a judge of the captive fought
desperately as it tried to free
itself. Its wings tore strings in
the air, swept eddies which stirred
small whirlwinds. The captive
crow gripped, held, refused to
let go!
Dick walked to the post on
which the crow was tied. The top
crow struggled to release itself
from the talons which held it.
The crow below held firmly. It
may have had an idea the fellow
on top could lift it; perhaps it
resembled the drowning man
who was supposed to clutch at
a straw.
Dick took the top crow, which
panted from exhaustion. He tied
it to the top of another post.
That gave him tjyo living traps
with which to amuse himself
when the boss was not looking.
Though the law said a trapped
thing must be killed there were
limits to the implementation of
that law. The others hovered
over the trapped ones, called
curses, did not land on them.
Dick hid behind a mound of
offal with a rifle. He had to wait
an hour or more. He was
immune to the stink by that time.
The first intimation the crows
had that Dick was still there was
the dull “Ph’tt!” of a .22 pellet
entering flesh, of the smack of
the rifle.
They rose as one bird, too
stunned to call a protest until
they had reached safe heights.
But one of their number stayed,
a sprawled heap of feathers, on
the ground.
The crows deserted the yards
and offal for fully two hours
after that murder. The kites,
whose brains were prompted by
their bellies, came back in less
than ten minutes. The crows
came singly, warily, with many
false starts and alarms.
Dick shot many hawks and
several crows while the boss was
engaged on more important
work. One day he shot a crow
which was sitting on a limb.
Positively, there was no notice-
able difference between that and
other crows: it was no bigger,
no glossier and, when it fell, it
gave the call all others had
sounded. It was one of a million
other crows.
There was some difference—
something indiscernible to the
human eye—which made that
one bird differ from its mates.
Dick expected the usual exodus
when it fell. This time there
was a new note in the lamenta-
tions of the others ; they circled
instead of going away ; one crow
alighted and sat on the same limb
of the tree, the same spot, from
which the other had been shot.
That was easy for Dick: he
repeated the performance.
Another flew over and settled
(m the execution-block. Another
and another followed until six
bodies lay on the ground beside
the corpse of what must have
been a king among crows. Then,
with a great hissing of wings, a
rasping of torn air, the mob of
crows rose higher and higher as
they circled —rose till they were
dots in the sky, till their calls
were muted by the wind, till they
wgre gone from sight and sound.
That time, instead of coming
back in about two hours, it was
fourteen days before a crow
returned to the killing-yard to
jostle with the hawks for scraps
of food.
I?" ELLY had learned enough of
man and his ways for a
while: he returned to his nest
in the coolibah. He foraged in
that area.
The young crows were now
full-fledged; mature except for
age; well able to look after
themselves.
Kelly and his mate felt they
had done their duty. They
turned on those youngsters, rent
them with their talons, tore them
with their beaks, showed a love
which had suddenly turned to
hate, and drove them several
miles down the creek. A week
or so later, their domestic
troubles ended for the year,
Kelly and his mate joined the
communal flocks of crows with
no fixed abode—no settled hunt-
ing area—who wandered where
feeding was good. They were
members of a mob, individually
lost.
One evening, alone, flying to
his night-camp, Kelly was
attacked by a mischievous
magpie. She tweaked his tail
when he was in flight, dived at
him in mock attacks, slid round
the strong-flying crow with
effortless bursts of pace. It was
just a wanton display of superior
speed, of greater fighting ability,
of steel-edged temper. It was
nothing more than a display.
Kelly did not join issue with
Maggie. He had more sense.
He flew as straight as a crow
is supposed to fly ; he caught the
wind in his cupped wings, levered
himself forward every beat, and
he did not look back. He gained
his perch on the tree which was
his night-camp.
He watched Maggie go, choral-
ling as she went. Then he
preened himself carefully, going
over each main feather with
deliberation as it grated through
his beak. He completed his
toilet, ruffled his feathers, winked
an eye at the setting sun. He
sank his head in his shoulders
preparatory to going to sleep—
really, he was asleep immediately.
He and his mob found a weak
sheep one day. It stumbled as
it walked, tripped as it tried to
run. The mob hovered over that
sick ewe. They ran on the
ground beside her ; they perched
on her back as she walked; they
flew on ahead and waited for
her to come up with them again.
That ewe shook her head to
dislodge a crow which was trying
to perch between her ears and
pick-axe her eyes. She stumbled.
She ran along on her knees, her
nose furrowing the dust. She
fell.
Kelly was the first to drive his
beak into her eye. The other
crows attacked in a body. They
picked out her eyes, nibbled her
ears, pecked her lips and started
on her nostrils. They made a
meal of her tongue which lolled
from her open mouth. They
opened the bare and tender
patches under her tail; they
picked as far as their beaks could
reach; they stood back and
waited for something to happen.
They had either to wait for some
could not open a dead body.
They had to either wait for some
animal to open it for them, or for
it to burst through decom-
position.
Something did happen! A
bronze-black streak in feathers,
{Continued on page 31)
There are three species of
birds in Western Queensland
which have the common name
of “crow,” nicknamed
“Kelly.” Known to ornitho-
logists as Little Crow, Crow
and Raven, they have slight
differences which are not dis-
tinguishable to the ordinary
bushman. He refers to them
all as “crows.” The birds
mentioned in this story
undoubtedly belong to one
of the species; the reader may
classify it if sufficiently
interested.-
H.G.L.
EVERLASTING
So here you are, my small hot friend,
Lighting the Badja’s granite bend
While high and clear the thrushes call
Like flashing spray above the fall:
A flower, a clock, an everlasting
Growing in the driftwood-heap and casting
Your scrap of yellow light on stone
As if you thought by this wild river
You’d pass for your great lord the sun
Who shines up there like some big daisy
And pours his light indeed for ever
Through the tall gums and down the valley.
And it is frue, my beaming midget:
Heaven is far, but you shall bridge it.
For ray by ray and flame by flame
Together here you lit the stream,
Rustling your stiff petals open
Out of the mist that dawn should happen;
Here all day you burn together.
And who could doubt while so you rhyme,
Sun to flower and sky to water,
That earth and heaven shall share high noon
And clear and golden is the time
All the space from here to the sun.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


m
%
m
MB
m
S*i
■
i*r>~3
'■zzzmß
nVk
**
«*Ss
■■U&taiVSV-
tgxgmmttMi* :
'C-,
a»
BBKSaSS#****!**
-
' vt ■■-•'«
,: ? > ■••;%,•«-?y
m
M.-«?
SPITZBERGEN, 1924-
A seaplane braves the Arctic
The Polar Bjorn, 150 tons, noses her way
through the ice to anchor off Green Har-
bour, Spitzbergen, nearly a thousand
miles within the Arctic Circle. The year
is 1924.
The Oxford University Arctic Expedi-
tion disembark. Crates are unloaded,
unpacked. In the bitter cold an Avro
Lynx seaplane is assembled.
In a matter of hours the ’plane is ready
for the take-off. In a matter of days it is
playing a valuable part in the exploration
of desolate North East Island, adjoining
Spitzbergen, reaching Lat. 80° 15'N.—
the farthest North any aircraft had
flown.
Flying in temperatures far below zero
demands a fuel of outstanding quality.
The Oxford University Expedition of
1924 used BP aviation spirit exclusively.
Since then BP Aviation Service has
come a long way. Today, geared to
keep pace with future developments and
demands, it is ready at all times to
provide aviation fuels speedily and effi-
ciently.
"X AVIATION 1?PSERVICE X
3/54
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
Marketers for the British Petroleum Company,
Ltd.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE GODWIN late of Belmont.
—TAKE NOTICE that NOELENE
MARIE GODWIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3298 of 1954 on the grounds
of habitual drunkenness and failure to
support, habitual drunkenness and cruelty
and. is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 Sub
Section 2 (<z) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 13th day of April 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from PETTIFORD & HILBERY,
Solicitors, 15 Waratah House, Rayswater
Road, Kings Cross. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS THEODORE McFADYEN
late of 4 Moores Lane Alexandria.—
TAKE NOTICE that THELMA MARY
McFADYEN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 482 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 26th April
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from KEITH YOUMAN,.
Solicitor, of 29 Bligh Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OX $
osuurvAx
iA mvm + i
TRADE
MARR
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTOF.IES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
»> .
Wants
To buy, copy of A Drum for Ben
Boyd (1948 N and Leichhardt in
Theatre (1952) both bv Francis
Webb—6oll } Y
To buy Baker’s Dictionary of
|?ngs„ Al ° ne > Egypt, Pansy
Sun?’’-6009 Wer and the
*
Information Sought
What is biochemistry ?
It is concerned with all the chemical
processes occurring in living organ-
isms, with their constitution and their
reaction tn chpmir-ai
their digestion, elaboration and
decomposition; production of energy
by chemical changes within the
organism- effert nf hnrmZc An
cells; chemotoxis, chemotherapy and
even the nature of life itself.
*
r . , „
List of Australian Governors-
General?
Earl of Hopetoun (afterwards the
Marquess of Linlithgow), Jan. 1,
1901-July 16, 1902; Lord Tennyson
Governor-Gener 3l July 17,
t 02-Jan. 15, 1903), Jan 16, 1903-
a? n ir.7>A’o 1 . Northcote, Jan.
21, 904-Sept. 8,1908; Earl of Dudley,
Sept. 9, 1908-July 31, 1911; Lord
Denman, July 31, 1911-May 17, 1914;
Sir Ronald Munro-Ferguson (after-
wards Viscount Novar), May 18, 1914-
Oct. 6, 1920; Lord Forster, Oct. 6,
1920-Oct. 8, 1925; Lord Stonehaven,
Oct. 8, 1925-Oct. 3, 1930; Lord
Somers (acting), Oct. 3, 1930-Jan. 1,
1931; Sir Isaac Isaacs, Jan. 1, 1931-
Jan. 22, 1936; Lord Gowrie, V.C.,
Jan. 23, 1936-Sept. 14, 1944; Sir
Winston Dugan (acting), Sept. 14,
1044 Tor. ion u- r. i
hpI 4 uf n ’ Roya J
ness the Duke of Gloucester, Jan. 31,
1947; Sir Winston
, { an * 1947-Mar.
“» 1947; Sir William McKell, Mar.
11, 1947-May 8, 1953 - Sir William
’
a i ay ?
The nests are open, cup-shaped
structures. Disced in trees or bushes
—usually in forks, but sometimes sus-
variously LITjJ
JSSfeESSSSA KM
SS.'
white, are more usually pink or buff
i n ground-color, and are almost
invariably spotted with reddish-.brown
or erev
Barries We - w
garden from a near-by vacant allot-
ment. How can I eradicate the pest
by the arsenic - and - caustic - soda
method ?
Spray the roots with lib. of arsenic
bodedi with: lit;• caustic-soda and then
Tf thfinwj drS üßillu B ill fk
nndicahl tn anrfiv snlnfinn l to
practicable to apply the solution to
each root with a brush it is advisable
ta do so, as the arsenic will not thus
affect the soil. If not, spray lightly,
and the soil will not be affected to
any great extent.
* * * *
* *
.
A few details concerning the cat-
bird (Ailurcedus viridts), said to be
closely allied to the bower-bird ?
The catbird is a member of the
bowerbird family. A. viridis is the
green catbird, and is found in the
coastal scrubs of south-east Queens-
land and eastern N. S. Wales, where
it feeds on fruits and berries. Its
rather loud call, “Me-ow,” is not
unlike that of a cat. The nest is
bowl-shaped, and constructed of long
twigs and stems of climbing plants,
lined with dry grass and generally
placed near the top of a low, bushy
tree, sometimes as much as 40ft. from
the ground. Eggs, two or three, cream
or pale creamy white. Season,
September to January.
* * * *
By what other names was New-
castle (N.S.W.) called?
Governor King refers to “Coal
Harbor,” in March, 1804. Shortly
afterwards King reported to the Home
Government that he had named the
settlement he had formed there
“Newcastle.” Lieutenant Menzies,
commandant there, mentions the
settlement as “King’s Town,” and
this name was occasionally used until
about 1830. The name Port Hunter
appears to have been used sometimes,
but there is no evidence that it was
used officially.
* * * *
What is the law in N. S. Wales
concerning children born out of
wedlock but whose parents subse-
quently marry ? Can they be legiti-
mated ?
Yes, provided that at the time of
birth there was no legal impediment
to the marriage of the parents. The
father is required to produce to a
District Registrar, usually the local
Clerk of Petty Sessions, a statutory
declaration in the form prescribed by
the Legitimation Act, and a copy of
the entry of his marriage with the
child’s mother. The child, whether
alive or dead, is then registered as
the lawful issue of the man and his
wife.
* * * *
Were any Australian troops en-
gaged in France during World War
I at the time of the November, 1918,
Armistice ?
After nearly a month in rest the
Australian Corps was, in early
November, on the march to the front
again when, after the Battle of
Landrectes, came the news that the
enemy was asking for an armistice.
But some Australian field-artillery
took part with the British in the last
fighting; there were Australian tunnel-
lers in the advance-guard of the
British Fifth Army east of Lille,
moving towards Mons; and overhead
the two Australian squadrons of
fighting scouts were active to the last.
Brief Answers
N.C.H.: (1) The number of
births registered in Australia during
1953 was 202,235. (2) The number
of women 46 years of age and over
who gave birth to children during
the year 1953 was 157. (3) The per-
centage of women (in 2) to all women
who gave birth to children during the
year 1953 was .078 p.c. (4) In cal-
culating items 2 and 3, only the eldest
child in the case of multifile births has
been included H.S.: Write D.
and W. Murray Pty., Ltd., 11l York-
street, Sydney K.M.A.: Write
Commonwealth Experimental Build-
ing Station, Delhi-road, North Ryde
(N.5.W.)... .L-N.: Write Under-
secretary, Prime Minister’s Dept.,
Canberra, A.C.T., for copy of leaflet
“Usage of the Australian National
Flag” S.H.: The Royal Navy lost
five fleet-carriers—Hermes, Coura-
geous, Eagle, Ark Royal and
Glorious —and five escort-carriers —
Audacity, Avenger, Dasher, Nabob
and Thane—in World War II
T.P.F.: Babinda (Q.) was so named
from the creek on which it stands,
which was named in 1881 by W. H.
Pottett, who owned land in the
vicinity, after a station he took up
near Nymagee (N.S.W.) in the
’seventies A.J.8.: Write Museum
of Applied Arts and Sciences, Harris-
street, Sydney, for pamphlet, “The
Rotproofing of Jute Hessian,” price
6d., postage 3d H.8.W.: Write
Division of Wood Technology,
N.S.W. Forestry Commission, 96
Harrington-street, Sydney, for pamph-
let No. 14, ‘‘Preservation of Fence
Posts” H. 8.: If a son is left with-
out adequate provision for his proper
maintenance he may make an applica-
tion under the N.S.W. Testators’
Family Maintenance Act for a further
provision out of the estate. Result
of such application would depend on
circumstances A.T.: Write Gaston
C. Renard, antiquarian bookseller,
Box 5295, G.P.0., Melbourne
S.K.: The alcoholic strength of Aus-
tralian fortified wines ranges from
29 p.c. proof spirit to 35 p.c. proof
spirit p.c. to 20 p.c. absolute
alcohol). The alcoholic strength of
unfortified wines ranges from 17 p.c.
proof spirit to 24 p.c. proof spirit
(10 p.c. to 14 p.c. absolute alcohol).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
8.T.: Pleasant enough in a conven-
tional fashion D.J.T.: We always
heave & sigh of relief when the season
for bushfire poems is over K.McA.:
That’s the third cyclone to hit us
this week K.N.: We left the girl
in the tree J J.A.K.: When last
heard that piper was piping merrily
away in the basket T.W.S. (Glen
Iris): Answer to T.S. (B. 12/1 /’ss>
was not intended for you E.O’S.:
It began well, but got out of hand
with the discovery of the first corpse.
S.P.: We could not resist your
grasshopper:
Twitch, oh you grasshopper,
Twitching on grass.
Twitch, oh you grasshopper,
Twitch for me.
You are a grasshopper,
So lovely and fine.
Twitchety, twitch I
For ever mine.
R.H.: Left unmoved by “Black
McGinnity’s Curse” A.F.C.: It
wanders all over the place, but will
probably find its way home
T.D.: Sorry, but we hadn’t an
aquarium large enough to accommo-
date your mermaid R.S.: Not in
the market for translations from
European newspapers... .B.B.: A
poor echo of C. J. Dennis
W.V.H.: Why not use this century’s
language? W.S.K.: Still puzzled as
to what that indecipherable morass of
manuscript is all about P.S.: This
is one paper in which the “belle of
the pickle-factory” will not be
allowed to meet her “Prince Charm-
ing” T.H.: It would seem that
your only chance of breaking into
print is to buy a newspaper of your
own R.G.: “What shall I do
with ‘Steak and Oysters’?” Eat
them... .K.L.: Take up stamp-
collecting ; pole-sitting; fretwork;
cactus-growing; anything but short-
story writing M.B.: You’ll find it
hard work to say anything new about
the sunset J.V.C.: The fact that
your grandfather originally wrote
those stanzas on emu-eggs is interest-
ins enough, but that curious fact
doesn’t make them good enough for
The Bulletin R.P.: Not badly
done, but a little too gruesome for
us C.D.: We have grown a trifle
weary of old-timers who sip their beers
and puff their pipes and remember
something not worth remembering —
M.McD.: The drunk on the ferry
was thrown overboard L.L.T.:
What Mr. Totzilowski said to Mrs.
Totzilowski and vice-versa hardly
makes a short-story E.P.C.:
Refuse to believe that your previous
story was worse than that
J.McL.: All that we can say is that
she must have been an exceptionally
charming widow C.F.: Its only
claim to originality is that the dialogue
is written in red ink and the rest in
purple ink....L.A.: The Religious
Editor ventured the opinion that you
have never been near a sly-grog shop
in your life J.J.: Some day we’ll
catch the fellow who tells his friends
to send us that sort of yarn
D.R.: Forget about trying to write
a “masterpiece” and try to write an
honest-to-goodness yarn W.C.S.:
Gent, who climbed up the chimney
now wedged in the w.p.b C.D.:
Found “Stranger than Fiction”—-14
closely-written pages with neither full-
stop nor comma —utterly incompre-
hensible S.E.: Just as we were
thinking that that story had become
extinct on the mainland you send us
a specimen from Tasmania
EJ.D.: Boil it down to a paragraph.
.... A.M.: Sorry, not quite our style.
. ...A.B.W.: That mad scientist will
have to seek accommodation else-
where P.C.: For a start you might
double-space your typing and put
your material into paragraphs
L.A.P.: Try it on a women’s paper.
A.I.P.: It was not A1 at The
Bulletin office.


On the Technique of Selling—and Buying!
Furniture Risks and Rackets
By GRAHAM PHILLIPS
FOR many of us our
furniture is the dearest
thing we buy in our lives ;
yet buying it we can more
easily be “had” than with most
other things. This is because we
get less practice buying it than
buying shirts, steak or beer.
Furniture - salesmen learn
which furniture arouses most
complaints, which stuff is the
best value. Unfortunately for
buyers, they also learn the
futility of trying to tell the truth
about it.
Most buyers arrive with pre-
conceived notions. The notions
are often wrong, but any attempt
on the part of a salesman to
change them will usually send
the customer scuttling to some
other shop where the salesmen
are more discreetly dishonest.
Furthermore, most furniture-
salesmen are too fed-up with the
subject to put their ideas on
paper; this job is left to posh
interior-decorators. The very
last aim of most interior-
decorators is to save their
customers’ money.
Returning from having a stab
at sundry jobs all over the world,
I found myself obliged to furnish
a house. It seemed a good idea
to go and sell furniture, and so
get the staff-discounts.
Previously I’d tottered through
uncongenial jobs: indeed, a
letter from the firm where I’d
last worked in London advised
that I’d been replaced by a vase
of flowers in the hall.
Now, for the first time in my
life, I found myself being a
roaring success at an occupa-
tion. Perhaps the reason was
that, to counterbalance my fail-
ings, I’d long been forced to be
nice to people I worked for, so
that being nice to customers
came easily.
A few failings remained.
There is much clerical work
attached to selling anything so
complicated and expensive as
furniture. I never overcame a
tendency to sell somebody a
complex order, get muddled up,
and send them something quite
different.
The Australian housing-boom
begat, for a long time at least, a
furniture-boom. To my own
mistakes were added the vagaries
of baronial furniture-factories.
Soothing angry customers be-
came part of the job.
A salesman’s first task is to
find out what the lady customer
wants. Though the lady is
usually with a man, it is she who
counts. Of the thousands of
customers listed in my docket-
book only two men overrode
their wives’ decisions. Another
exception was a man who, in
elaborate and skilled taste, chose
a home without bringing in his
wife at all: here I scented a
tragedy. And a wealthy wool-
family from out west placidly
deferred to the excellent taste
of their adolescent son.
In the main, however, hus-
bands feel that, even though they
themselves are paying for it, the
home is their wives’ affair.
One could almost foresee the
course of a marriage from the
behavior towards each other of
young people in this moment of
stress. Oddly, it was young
wives who were working to help
pay for the home who most
tended to defer to their husbands.
At the other end of the scale was
a wife who insisted on buying
only that furniture her husband
most disliked. In her case it took
me some time to work out why
she preferred one hideous suite
to another.
As I’ve already said, it’s
seldom you can guide the
customer towards a wise choice ;
you can merely clarify his
muddled ideas and satisfy them,
or else decide what is the next-
best thing, and offer that instead.
I worked as a salesman in the
furniture departments of several
big city emporiums. It isn’t
without significance that the one
where I had most success made
honesty a policy. It wanted
satisfied customers.
Things are different with un-
scrupulous “high-pressure”
firms. The city contains many
such. Salesmen browbeat cus-
tomers into buying rubbish, con-
fident their shop will refuse to
change it. “Terms” offered
would sometimes make Shylock
blush.
“What kind of wood is it?”
is the first question most cus-
tomers ask. Beginning, I my-
self would not know, and would
have to scuttle away for help.
The help, I quickly found,
was all too ready to pinch my
sale. I was forced to learn a
flexible answer: “Mixed
timbers,” I would say. To my
surprise most customers received
this answer with an air of pro-
“ There's nothing to fit you here , madam—hut come along, you may
be interested in the divans."
fundity. Later I became more
expert and improved the answer
to “Selected timbers.”
And later still, of course, I
learnt what the woods really
were, or pretended to be. Of
Australian suites, both good and
bad, 99 per cent, are veneered
—yes, veneered. They are
veneered in the following
woods: cedar, Queensland-
maple, Queensland-walnut,
coachwood, Pacific-maple, silver-
ash and silky-oak. As solid
timbers rather than veneers
Tasmanian-oak and ramin are
also used. Pine in various forms
crops up, but is not talked
about.
The public generally regards
all veneers as being of dubious
origin. This is a half-truth which
I shall later explain. However,
many veneers (i.e., surfaces) are
certainly in themselves of
dubious origin, or, at least,
doubtfully named.
* In order to hang on to a few
shreds of integrity, I preferred
not to know just what did go
on in furniture-factories. I have,
however, noted the ease with
which Queensland-maple was
transmuted into the conservative
darkness of Queensland-walnut,
the configurations of the grain
remaining mysteriously the
same.
One interior-decorator claims
(not in working hours) that
“Coachwood is what they make
Australian cedar out of.” He
may be wrong. He is certainly
very rich. And certainly, too,
both cedar and coachwood have
grains with the regular irregu-
larity of leaping flames.
A word might be said here on
a very widespread cedar fallacy
—that cedar is borer-proof,
It isn’t.. .
In a skit on Communism the
late George Orwell satirised:
“All men are equal, but some
are more equal than others.”
Likewise, it might be true to
say that, since the war, hardly
any timbers are properly
seasoned, but some are less
properly seasoned than others,
And of all timbers none acts
more shiftily than badly
seasoned coachwood. It buckles
and warps like a silkworm’s
midriff.
It is worth while to heed this
warning. Its deceitfully charm-
ing grain makes coachwood a
No. 1 pet in some arty-crafty
“shoppes”; and, like the more
brazen of their bigger brethren,
these shops, however recent
your purchase, will seldom
change defective goods. “Your
furniture warped because you
let direct sunlight fall on it,” or
some such excuse.
My best firm made no bones
about changing, even when it
knew the customer was wrong,
Another dodge with the
unscrupulous is to sell some-
thing, then deliver an inferior
copy of what you bought. A
refinement of this technique may
occur if you’ve had some-
thing specially made. This is
to insist that you inspect the
goods before taking delivery,
But the inspection will take
place in a dim light, and, any-
how, you’ll probably be too
enveloped by sales-ladies in
smocks to get a good look. You
get the stuff home, and unjoined
joinery, etc., becomes apparent,
Change it? “Oh dear, no! You
inspected it first.”
There are other woods that
assume false glamor. By a pro-
cess analogous to the manufac-
turing of a 1920 vamp, timber
may *be chemically bleached.
The übiquitous Queensland-
maple can usurp the role of
glamor-girl silver-ash. Another
timber used as a ring-in for
silver-ash is ramin. However,
like the roots of peroxided hair,
both timbers have their tell-
tale clues.
Bleached wood, like bleached
hair, tends to revert to its
darker hue. This is not so bad.
But ramin, though naturally
pale, unless carefully seasoned
is subject to cracks.
Iris also prone to navy-blue
blotches which haphazardly
and malignantly sully its grain.
Worse, ramin has a kind of
anaemic beauty which highlights
the blotches. At one place we
had a buyer (i.e., department-
head ; not customer) who urged
us to pass-off these blotches as
(I quote) “Nature’s beauty-
spots.” We never had much
luck at this, however.
Another pallid timber which
may conveniently be tinted into
either blond or natural-pink
maple-shades is Tasmanian-oak.
You can tell this wood by its
great weight. In less poetic
mood our buyer called it “Rail-
way-sleeper furniture.”
Perversely, customers are
more impressed by meaningless
weight than by meaningful
strength. Of this public foible
we shall hear more later. Let
us first look at veneers versus
solid timber.
Many veneers, as I’ve tried to
show, are not even the veneers
they pretend to be. This mas-
querade, however, isn’t so
serious as the confusion over
good and bad veneers.
For centuries past, nearly all
good furniture has been
veneered. Veneers are not
necessarily something new and
shoddy. Whatever the alleged
surface, there are but two main
kinds of veneers: drum and
solid-core. Drum-veneers are
almost always shoddy. *
The grain of a high-grade
veneer rpns at right-angles to
that of the wood upon which it
is laid. This gives greater resist-
ance to tensile stresses, to warp-
ing, and to the little defections
of post-war matured wood. By
the law of averages, imperfec-
tions of veneer and core seldom
coincide. Consequently they
tend to cancel each other out.
Well-founded, nonetheless, is
the prejudice against veneered
furniture. It springs from
“drum-veneers”—those which
are affixed to a hollow frame.
Despite their cardboard-thin
surface, such veneers are indis-
tinguishable (visually) from
solid-core veneers. Inside, a
sheet of three-ply hides the
frame to which they are
attached.
Lacking body, a drum-
veneered wardrobe-door may
warp as much as two or three
inches. There then seems no
alternative but to replace the
door. The fair-dealing firm for
which I worked —one with a
big country connection—never
hesitated to do this. Others are
less scrupulous.
Because of the bad repute
drum-veneers have given solid-
core veneers, salesmen shy away
from the very word. Particu-
larly would customers from in-
land Australia ask for some-
thing solid. They were mistaken
in believing unveneered wood
more resistant to extremes than
solid stuff. Only those who’d
tried the latter and watched it
crack would listen. Badly-made
heavy furniture falls to bits
faster than well-made light stuff.
Modern laminated woods
multiply the strengthening prin-
ciples of solid-core veneers.
Despite their lightness, criss-
cross layers of timber—mechan-
ically sandwiched at great pres-
sure —have a springy strength
exceeding that of all conven-
tional woods. A favorite bit
of sales-talk: “Light-bombers
were made of laminated timber
during the last war.”
So curiously muddled in the
public mind are weight and
strength that salesmen often
thump the stuff they’re selling.
One such salesman worked for
us, though briefly. Just as its
booming will lead you to a
bittern, so could Mr. Whackem
be tracked-down by his profes-
sional clatter.
“Where’s Mr. Whackem?
Not back from tea yet?” a
department-head might ask.
“Oh, yes. Heard him a
minute ago . . . lamming into
that bird’s-eye-maple suite in
the far corner.”
“Hmph. If he sells that he
can have the day off.”
His percussive sales-technique
was applied by Mr. Whackem
to even the hoi lowest of “drum”
doors. Confidently he would
thunder only on those few parts
of the veneer behind which he
knew lay the frame.
“Solid, madam. Solid,” he
would say.
Another old salesman was
said to have been in the habit of
casually resting his hands on
the table of a dining-room suite
he was selling. “Lift this table,”
he’d say at last. “Feel the
weight of it!” He would then
surreptitiously lift his feet from
the floor, balancing suavely
upon his hands. The unwitting
customer would have to lift
him as well as the table.
This last story is almost cer-
tainly apocryphal; nonetheless,
that it should be invented at all
proves the sales-value of furni-
ture with avoirdupois.
In my neophyte stages I
sometimes met a customer who
knew more about furniture than
I. This was helpful, if em-
barrassing. Indeed, to my
amazement, ignorance' proved
to be a red-hot selling tech-
nique. Having explained every-
thing about something, such
learned customers felt a dark
obligation to buy it. I was later
to find sales-listening worth
Niagaras of sales-talk.
Just how you got the cus-
tomer talking didn’t matter a
hoot. “How big is your dining-
room?” was my pet query.
Seldom did customers suspect
this as the most expensive ques-
tion they’d ever been asked. For
seldom can a woman resist tell-
ing you just how big her dining-
room is. From there she may
go on to tell you all kinds of
irrelevancies. Listen avidly.
She’ll end by furnishing that
dining-room.
My own campaign was
headed by this rule: Never
(Continued on page 27)


/
we PSSSRVSS 4
o
ms
Uh\sH UMt
/in
rn
Q
g
ffM
£
/
N
Si
T im
1
li
a
VJ
r
m
m
*
,*S)
s
c?
*
N
sr*
s*
A
z
'"<■■• -•>. ",r % - "/* '***"
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
KB. 156.18
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for,
all your
Travelling Requisites
G. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS
Caulfield proved costly to
Sydney owners, trainers and
those who follow the type of
Sydney scribe who never gives
Melbourne horses a chance if a
good Sydney horse goes among
them. The Oakleigh Plate pro-
vided more than one upset —
V-R.C. stewards ordered a
swab s to be taken from
8-to-l Dicast after a camera-
finish in which Dicast
beat Inner and Court Lock,
with the Sydney hopes out of
the money. However, Lucky
Stride was counted unlucky, as
he was unable to get a run
through until the race was won.
Dicast’s success wasn’t at all
palatable to the crowd, which
turned on the familiar “demon-
stration.”
In Caulfield’s Futurity Stakes,
a “glorified welter handicap,”
Prince Cortauld, a failure in the
Alister Clark Stakes, has his
chance to prove the Moonee
Valley form all wrong. He will
carry the maximum penalty,
making his weight 10.6. Rising
Fast has 10.4.
A two-year-old, Palmer, won
the sprint in 1900 vith 5.12, but
better-known winners include
Ajax (three times), St. Razzle
(two), Bernbo rough, Phar Lap,
Ammon Ra, Amounis, Bob
Cherry and Eurythmic.
Prince Morvi’s win in War-
wick Farm Flying was impres-
sive, and his party didn’t forget
to label him thick and hard. As
he cost his present owner nearly
£BOOO when a partnership was
dissolved, a tidy win at good
odds was necessary to catch up
with his cost. It was in the final
few strides that the Prince
downed speedy Criollo, who
acted right up to a brilliant
gallop at Rosebery two days
before the race. Connaught
came home soundly in third
place and has lost no friends so
far as the Doncaster is con-
cerned—in fact he gained some.
As winner of the A.J.C. and
the V.R.C. Derbies, Prince
Morvi was the class galloper of
the field.
Caulfield Cup winner Pesha-
war figures in the pedigree of
the Canterbury Park (Sydney)
Maiden winner French Shoe, a
filly showing promise of better
things in the near future. French
Shoe is by the French sire
Charleval, whose oldest progeny
are now competing in juvenile
company. Woodlands stud,
Denman (N.S.W.), bred the filly,
whose dam Sandal (a sister to
Recaste, the dam of Peshawar)
is by Revelation (imp.) from
Caste (half-sister to The Monk
and Veil, the dam of Veilmond)
by Posterity (imp.). Veilmond
had 19 wins, including the two
St. Legers, and earned £21,587
in stakes.
D. (Darby) Munro, probably
one of our greatest natural
horsemen, celebrated his 43rd
birthday under silk at Sydney’s
Warwick Farm by bringing
home The Corsican a winner in
the opening event. Munro has
ridden the winners of most of
the important races on the Aus-
tralian turf calendar, some two
and more times, and he still
knows the shortest cut to the
post. The Corsican was drawn
25 at the barrier, but Munro
worked him skilfully through the
field and left him enough for
the finish. The Corsican is by
the new sire Emperor (imp.)
from Posture by Spiral, and be-
longs to the family which pro-
duced speedy Cultured, as well
as Nizam’s Ring, winner of the
V.R.C. Oaks, and Variant (N.Z.
Oaks).
Flying Halo, winner of 24
races, has now earned £36,465
in stakes. The aged son of St.
Magnus (imp.) and Sweet Trilby
was at his best in beating Rising
Fast in the St. George Stakes at
Caulfield, and started at 8 to 1.
Sydney staying colt Prince Del-
ville was a good third, and will
be popular for the V.R.C. St.
Leger. Flying Halo is raced by
a Ballarat businessman, P. E.
Collins. Rising Fast’s second
took his stakemoney to £37,890.
All money won by Flying Halo
has been earned on Melbourne
courses.
Sydney - owned horses are
prominent in the V.R.C. New-
market field, but Sydney has no
representatives in the Australian
Cup, a race which seldom
attracts other than modest
stayers. Gay Vista’s fine win-
ning record has resulted in
favoritism for the Newmarket,
while Dicast’s Oakleigh Plate
win has promoted him to second
line. Despite his failure in the
Oakleigh, Indian Empire is third
fancy for the Newmarket. When
this was written Commodore
and North Riding were best-
fancied for the Australian Cup.
Progeny of Marco Polo II
(imp.) are in their first year of
racing. Their sire was a stayer
and is well-bred. He is by Le
Pacha, champion of France in
his time. Marco Polo II won
races in England, while his half-
brother, My Babu, won £29,830
in stakes. Gold Trek, runner-up
to The Corsican at Warwick
Farm, is a Marco Polo, bred in
New Zealand. He cost 850gns.
at the Dominion sales last year,
and is from Gold Point by Gold
Nib (imp.). Forest Beau (Bris-
bane Derby) appears in the
pedigree, as does Langue, winner
of £13,715 in stakes in New
Zealand.
Eight Bells, a failure in
Graduation Stakes company at
his previous start, was an easy
winner of Warwick Farm’s
March Handicap. He had been
easily beaten in a Randwick
track-trial earlier in the week by
a moderate. Now Eight Bells
goes to Melbourne for the
V.R.C. St. Leger next Monday.
He was third in the A.J.C. Derby,
is bred on staying lines, and will
be ridden by J. Thompson, who
won on him at Warwick Farm.
• • •
Before racing began at War-
wick Farm an A.J.C. committee-
man, B. Crowley, thought he
had the makings of a top-class
two-year-old in Brilliant Light,
one of his own breeding. But
the Confessor (imp.) gelding let
him down badly and finished
weakly. Three days earlier at
Canterbury Brilliant Light had
made an exhibition of oppon-
ents in maiden two-year-old
company, and he was up one
grade only. Brilliant Light was
made a warm favorite at the
Farm, but at no stage did he
look like getting into the money.
His dam, Highlight, is by
Valiant Chief from Maenad by
Drake (imp.) from Rudas by
Linacre. Crowley raced that
good mare Flight (winner of
£30,627 in stakes), but she has
yet to throw anything of note.
Port Arthur s easy win at
Warwick Farm —he was being
eased down at the finish six
lengths ahead of his nearest rival
—brought offers for the four-
year-old Macarthur gelding, one
of 5000gns., but the connections
weren’t having any. They
wanted double that. Yet when
offered as a yearling at Rand-
wick sales he was bought for a
mere 120gns. His value has
skyrocketed because of a series
of wins, some of them with many
lengths to spare, but as he is
still eligible for restricted com-
pany, he hasn’t had a real test.
Sylvia’s Pet, dam of Port
Arthur, is by Sylvandale from
“After all, hes not so terribly old. We can make him
twelfth-man."
Outlook by Treclare (imp.), and
traces back to Wallace, son of
Carbine.
* • • m
Schottische, winner of a fillies
Two-year-old at Warwick Farm,
is aptly named. She is by the
French sire Royal Empire, from
Round Dance (imp.) by Fun
Fair. The family has produced
some smart winners in England,
and Schottische is one of the
early winners for Royal Empire,
one of the best „ three-year-
olds of his year in France and
in England. He won the Liver-
pool Aintree Derby (13f.), and
was placed in the Grand Prix de
Paris and the Ascot Gold Vase
(two miles). His brother, Mon-
sieur L’Admiral, won races in
England to 2m. 5f., including
the Goodwood Cup.
♦ * *
At Sydney’s Harold Park they
ran the inaugural. two-year-old
fillies’ race—the Ladyship Stakes.
The lassies turned on a display
that would make any trotting
neddie prick his ears. Lady
Wexford, a full-sister to star-
performer Young Wexford, ran
out a nice winner. Runners-
up, Highland Jan and New
Memory, are progeny of light-
harness champs of yesteryear—
Highland Fling and Lawn
Derby.
Smart mare Patsy’s Gift got
back into her stride with a good
win at the Melbourne Show-
ground on Saturday night.
Sydney fans learnt to respect her
ability when she disposed of
Steel Spring and Prince Gordon
in a Spring Handicap heat last
September. Now she’s on the
winning-list again, and could go
on to better things.
+ +
Standing in the doorway of
his dressing-room as the drinks
were going out, Hutton made
several signals to close England’s
innings half an hour before the
closure. Only Compton noticed
the signals, which he plainly
interpreted as “Have ago!” An
earlier closure, if Compton and
Bailey had got more of a move
on before lunch, might have
brought fifth Test victory.
The Australian selectors had a
storm of bumpers bowled at
them, but the failure of the
critics’ selections in Tests and
other games against the tourists
(e.g., Watson in the fifth Test,
Briggs and his “pair” for
N.S.W.) indicates that no other
team would have done better
than that the selectors chose.
Unusual for a batsman’s first
two scoring-shots to produce
more runs by overthrow than
from the hit. In McDonald's
first innings in the fifth Test he
went for two for a pull to leg,
and Wardle’s return went
through to the opposite fence (six
for the shot). At the other end
Mac went for a single for a
square-cut, but got three out of
it when another wild throw beat
Evans. Incidentally, the selectors
were hit all over the ground when
they picked McDonald for the
fourth Test; but in his four
Test innings he’s top-scored three
times and second-topped once.
Lindwall, in what was almost
certainly his last England-Aus-
tralia Test, took his 100th wicket
in these Tests. The last two were
“presentations”—Evans deliber-
ately skied one, Wardle did the
same but was dropped (by
Davidson!), so Bailey, on one
of the last balls of Lindwall’s
last over (Hutton having signified
that he was closing), moved right
across and let a straight one bowl
him. Very sporting, what! Had
Johnson held a fairly easy catch
from Compton earlier, Lindwall
would probably have got his
100th without help from the
batsmen.
“Mid-on”: When N.S.W. bats-
man Bob Simpson was run-out
in a Sydney grade-cricket semi-
final by the bowler breaking the
wicket when Simpson was
backing-up too far, the bowler
was booed. Why? It’s a legiti-
mate form of dismissal, designed
to stop a batsman cribbing a
couple of yards’ start in a
quickly-run single.


betray to any customer the
slightest wish to sell anything.
My docket-book proved this
rule to pay paradoxical divi-
dends. The tone of voice is the
great thing. Not so honeyed as
to be insincere, but imbued with
that essence of bedside-manner
that makes a doctor. Marsh-
mellow tones. . . “How big is
your dining-room?”
Nor is this so cold-blooded
as it sounds. I remember many
customers with affection, and
hope some, at least, likewise
remember me. Having so
gained the customers’ trust, it
was sometimes possible to guide
them to a wise choice of stuff.
This was usually better both
for them and for me. Because
of the time it usually must last,
there is nothing to which the
old dictum, penny-wise, pound-
foolish, more often applies than
it does to furniture. A cheap
chair disintegrates; sometimes
before it’s paid for. You spend
a third of your life in bed: you
might as well be comfortable
there. Even a crook carpet mdy
cost hundreds: you might as
well buy a good one.
Nor is this to imply that high-
cost guarantees high-class goods.
However, it often helps. And
you’ll still have the same furni-
ture while you buy and wear
out half-a-dozen cars.
Particularly with upholstered
furniture do people come costly
croppers. Many lounge-suites
soil abominably even before
they leave the shop. They may
look more-or-less virginal to
the customer, but the salesman
who saw the suite when it came
from the factory knows differ-
ently.
Women tend capriciously to
pick a lounge-suite as they
would a dress: attending too
little to down-to-drawing-room
aspects.
Furthermore, since it takes
18yds. or so to cover a suite,
cost per yard of material bears
enormously on the suite’s over-
all cost. An illustration: Before
the war a friend of mine bought
a suite for £5, and a good suite
at that. He recently got a quote
for re-covering it —£95.
Some materials in the sample-
book embraced the spectrum in
toto. Because they incorporated,
perforce, at least some of the
colors contained in stuff the
customer might already have
bought, these rainbow tapestries
were among the easiest-sellers.
To forebodings that the stuff
might look too gaudy I’d answer
truthfully, “A few weeks sitting
on it’ll tone it down.”
A rival salesman cunningly
refused to give an opinion
about anything. If asked for one
he’d always say: “Oh, it’s a
neutral shade.” Blandly he
would so dismiss even the most
gaudy concoctions.
To pour £2OOO into stocking
a house is today easily pos-
sible ; even without extrava-
gance, It is nonetheless amaz-
ing how often people buy furni-
ture they don’t need. One young
couple insisted on cluttering
their bedroom with a completely
useless wardrobe: useless be-
cause their house already had
capacious built-in ones. They
were victims of the three-piece-
suite convention —i.e., unless
you own one you can’t afford
one ...
+ +
This dictum is at variance
with that of famed French
architect Le Corbusier: “The
bedroom should contain a bed.”
Recently Le Corbusier has
himself been criticised by
tenants of his Alp-size block of
flats m Marseilles. The bed-
rooms are angular flying-caves,
overhanging the living-room.
and supported on the cantilever
principle like the mezzanine-
floor of a modern theatre. But
the flats are not so large as a
theatre. Main objection? Lying
down after lunch, post-prandial
belches can be overheard!
Nor does this excuse smack
merely of Gallic flippancy.
There is a trend towards the
one-room houses of medieval
and franker times. It should
not be allowed to reach the
stage of uniting bedroom and
living-rooms.
But the uniting of living-
room and kitchen is something
else again. Just as old-fashioned
kitchens always have done,
today’s kitchens are more and
more serving also as dining-
rooms. To get a meal from
stove to far-off dining-room
table is almost as much work as
cooking it. And servants have
long disappeared from all but
very rich homes.
It was Frank Lloyd Wright
who first saw the need of a
kitchen planned to enable a
hostess to talk to her guests
while she fussed over dinner.
Whether or not some hostesses
might think this a dubious
advantage, our ever-rising build-
ing-costs tend to fuse kitchen
and dining-room.
However, as housing conven-
tions go by the board, so, too,
should furnishing conventions.
Most modern kitchens have
whole walls of cupboards. In
such a room a sideboard is an
expensive redundancy. Very
expensive. Today a decent
sideboard will usually cost
nearly half-a-hundred smackers,
and often more.
Nonetheless, one young couple
with just such a cupboard-lined
eating-area insisted on buying a
sideboard they neither needed
nor could afford. Reason? “A
sideboard makes a room.”
Still, good luck to them. A
house is a personal thing. Just
as with humans, overdoses of
regimentation will ruin it.
Except with the occasional
nasty customer, most of us tried
to sell people the best of the
stuff available. But sometimes
a man would come to work for
us who was not so scrupulous.
Very briefly, there was one
such in the lounge-suite depart-
ment. Now, lounges may have
either a sprung-edge or a hard,
unsprung-edge. The sprung-
edge is more expensive and, of
course, more comfortable.
Somerset Maugham has said he
knows little about writing, but a
lot about people, which latter
he thinks far more important.
Likewise, the unscrupulous
salesman knew a lot about
people, and hence was an
artist at bullying them. But it
is doubtful whether he knew
any more about the stuff he sold
than how to tell the difference
between sprung- and unsprung-
edges.
Selling a sprung-edge lounge
he’d plump it up and down:
“Sprung-edge, the only possible
kind to buy,” he’d assure the
customer. Twenty minutes later
he’d have another victim whom
he was bent on selling a job
with an unsprung-edge.
“What a hard edge,” the cus-
tomer might say.
“The only possible kind to
buy,” he’d retort. “They never
sag.”
Of course it often happens
that a customer fancies the
design of lounge, but not the
covering. We would then have
a copy made in a covering of his
own choosing. At first I would
make the mistake of taking the
customer into the room where
the bales of material were
stored, to pick one. Unleashed
in a room with hundreds of
different cloths most women are
set for the day.
I later became wiser. I would
sit the customer down and
bring a few snippets of likely
materials, thus narrowing the
choice. A further advantage
lay in the fact that it’s always
prime strategy to get the cus-
tomer into a sitting position as
soon as possible.
The last move in this selling-
play was to return from the
material-room tottering beneath
the weight of a bale of cloth.
Embarrassed by all this exertion
on his behalf the customer
would feel too ashamed not to
buy.
Quite apart from that possible
effect, however, this manoeuvre
was of visual aid to the cus-
tomer. Draping a material all
over a lounge gave a pretty good
notion of how the job would
turn out; much clearer than can
possibly be gained from snippets
of stuffs.
My personal reaction to up-
holstered furniture after
watching many beautiful
materials become soiled even
before they were sold —is that
either leather or high-grade
leather-substitutes are the best
covering. Plastics can have a
chilly look, it is true, but this
can be warmed-up with bright
cushions.
Another disadvantage of
some earlier plastics was that
they became sticky on hot days:
the sitter tended to adhere to
them.
Real-leather prices have,
however, skyrocketed even
more than most other things,
and seem likely to keep on sky-
rocketing. A lounge-suite in
solid hide may easily cost over
£3OO.
+ +
Buying plastic covering, avoid
those which imitate leather. It
is only because it is natural that
the graining of leather is beau-
tiful ; carefully indented by
machinery it is not only vulgar
but a dust-catcher to boot.
Ruskin prescribes honesty as
one of the ingredients of beauty
in his Seven Lamps of Archi-
tecture : one material should
not masquerade as another.
Most lounges in the so-called
Swedish style have separate
sprung-cushions whose covers
zip-off. Thus the covers may be
sent to the cleaners when dirty.
This sounds good in theory.
But the weight of human bodies
quickly presses grime into seat-
covers. And the moment this
type of furniture loses its anti-
septic Nordic look it also loses
its charm.
Also, vast areas of glass in
today’s homes give women over-
time enough, without having
also to be for ever worrying
about lounge-covers. One hears
the female admonitions of
“Wipe your shoes before com-
ing into the house,” or “Don’t
sit on the edge of the bed,”
being expanded to include,
“Don’t sit on the lounge!”
The Swedes themselves hate
most of what we call “Swedish
furniture.” Indeed, one de-
signer, whose firm sent her to
Sweden, told me the Swedes are
puzzled add a little cross about
some of the ugly designs being
laid at their national door.
It is true, however, that the
Swedes were pioneers in the
light, compact furniture-designs
that fit so well into today’s
light, compact houses. Seating
one person on an old-style
lounge-chair could use 64 cubic-
feet of space.
But the term “Swedish” is
hurled about too much at
random, bestowed upon any
chattel that is made of unstained
wood or else has its legs askew
like those of a giraffe drinking.
Actually, this furniture is
“unstained” merely in theory.
Customers have a passion for
uniformity which trees do not
share. In my opinion public
taste is off the beam in insisting
that individual pieces of modern
stuff should exactly match one
another, as did the old-style
dark-stained pieces. Modern
furniture should look casual.
The housewifely preoccupa-
tion with uniformity may be an
unconscious manifestation of
the keeping-up-with-the-Joneses
complex. Unmatched pieces
might give the impression of
having been obliged to furnish
a home bit by bit, of being
unable to afford to buy every-
thing simultaneously. In point
of fact, hardly anyone today can
afford to furnish a house in one
go. I don’t know the exact
figures, but I suspect that as near
as dammit to 95 per cent, of the
population now buy their stuff
on hire-purchase.
Leading U.S. decorators now
advocate the mingling of furni-
ture according to needs. In this
new idiom antiques may even
rub shoulders in the same room
with the ultra-modern. Caution
must, of course, be used in doing
this, but the idea has one great
merit: it enables the owner of
a houseful of modern furniture
to make use of any good pieces
he may inherit or pick up
cheaply at a sale.
“The sideboard and table
don’t match,” is the commonest
after-sale complaint of buyers
of unstained furniture. Accord-
ingly, the polisher has to be sent
out to give the unstained furni-
ture another coat of stain.
The complaint is made even
more frequent because sideboard
and table may appear different,
even though made from the
same tree. This is because light
falling from different angles
distorts the colors of polished
wood. And a sideboard has
mostly vertical surfaces, while a
table’s are mostly flat. However,
I never had much luck making
customers believe this.
Particularly with dining-room
furniture it is a good idea to
abandon sedately matching
colors. This is because some of
the very best chairs in the world
come from Poland. And, being
made of Polish wood, can only
with great difficulty be made to
match Australian tables and
sideboards.
Except for carpets, which get
walked on, chairs take a bigger
trouncing than any other house-
hold item. They are sat on,
leant back on, and stood on. If
they’re no good they fall to bits.
The Poles’ bentwood chairs
have been sought-after by
thrifty buyers for over a cen-
tury. Though the cheaper ones
are almost too functional and
kitchenesque, the dearer ones are
elegant. Nor are the dearer ones
so very dear. Wages are low
in Poland.
Czechoslovakia is another
prolific exporter of chairs.
Their chairs are graceful, but,
in my experience, not so sturdy
as the Polish.
Though probably inaccurate,
it’s nonetheless an amusing
thought that chief exports from
behind the Iron Curtain are
salmon, chairs and caviare.
In the kitchen-furniture de-
partment at one place, we had a
chap who put in his day lighting
matches and throwing them on
laminex- and formica-type
table-tops, thus demonstrating
the indestructability of these new
materials. We considered it
unfair that by this crude dodge
he sold more stuff than all the
rest of us. Salesmen are a
jealous lot. I was sometimes
tempted to smear his table-tops
with petrol.
However, these are good
materials. It is better to pick
the quieter patterns and avoid
the gaudy ones so beloved of
the milk-bars. (Pubs, inexplic-
ably, show more taste in their
choice.)
For some odd reason, laminex
and formica are sometimes
plastered on bedroom furni-
ture. One lot we handled was
got up to imitate a heavily
grained wood. Best comment
came from a squatter’s wife:;
“Looks like a sheep’s insides.”
Salesmen see some very odd
human behavior, brought out
by the stress of spending a large
sum of money.
“Never serve a woman with a
red hat,” one old salesman used
to say. “They always lead you
a pretty dance.”
Nonsense, of course. Still,
the only red-hatted woman I
served did indeed lead me a
dance, though quite a jolly one
from the firm’s point of view.
She was striding through the
furniture-department with her
daughter, quite evidently with
no idea of buying anything;
merely on her way from one
department to another. Sud-
denly a kitchen-chair caught her
eye, and I materialised at her
elbow in the way that salesmen
learn to do.
“Are you sure you really need
it, Mother?” asked the girl.
+ +
This seemed to goad the
mother into a buying frenzy.
She not only at once bought
the chair but started to cruise
round the shop in search of
something more. In two hours
she spent £4OO, always to the
obbligato, “Do you really need
it, Mother?”
They were country people.
The mother charged up the
goods to an account, and the
sales were passed by the office
with no hesitation.
It was the lady’s buying
technique that was exhausting.
Peppering the air with questions,
she would dart from dressing-
table to writing-desk, and from
there to a coffee-table and back.
Abruptly she would intersperse
her questions with observations
about world-affairs. She would
ask my opinion about those, too.
Then she’d repeat her earlier
furniture questions. She always
remembered my last answer.
Another very pleasant woman
asked to look at bedroom-suites.
She had all the little signs of a
genuine buyer; spent an hour
tramping round the shop. She
. made the same remark as she
looked at each suite: “I want
something for ordinary people.
We’re just ordinary people.”
She was still proclaiming her
humble status when she left.
I still brood about her and
wonder what she wanted. . .
The delivery-manager at one
store had a drawing beneath his
glass-topped desk. It was a
picture of a small furniture-shop.
Towering over the shop and
connected to it was a huge build-
ing labelled “Complaints.” To
the salesman it seems that
everybody who buys furniture
complains about it. At first I
handled complaints by looking
shocked and listening. I later
learnt the secret of flying into a
temper on the customer’s behalf .
“What? You mean to say
your suite didn’t come!”
Your wrath must always be
greater than the customer’s . . .
directed at some obscure un-
named party w r ho has let both
of you down.
+ +
Some complaints are so un-
expected as to throw the oldest
salesman off-balance. As just
a sample of the unexpected:
“We can’t sleep in our bedroom
for the new wardrobe. It stinks
something terrible.”
It turned out she was telling
the literal truth. I asked our
head trouble-shooter about it.
He nodded his head sagely::
“Yes, it’s' that New Guinea ply-
wood again.”
Despite the fact that at this
firm we drew no commission on
sales the work had a kind of
excitement attached to it. Won-
dering whether or not you’d
succeed in making a big sale,
for ever fishing for the remark
that might just tip the customer
into buying—these things had
something of the thrill of going
to the races.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £l/16/
6 months .18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
* The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire ..... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Have you an
inferiority
complex?
In two decades of counselling,
Dr. Norman Vincent Peale
developed a technique that
has helped hundreds conquer
their feeling of inadequacy.
Now, in March Reader’s
Digest, the author of The
Power of Positive Thinking
tells the six definite steps you
can take to gain confidence.
Thirty other articles in
March Reader’s Digest includ-
ing “Visit to Disneyland,” "Is
there life on other planets?”,
“Don’t feel sorry for your-
self,” “W<srld’s biggest dope
peddler.” On sale now —one
shilling and sixpence at all
newsagents and bookstalls.
Make sure of your copy today.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FAR EAST DIFFERENCES
Since the disruption of Anglo-
American accord is one of the
Soviet’s major aims, some British
criticisms —and particularly the
Labor and Socialist criticisms —
of America’s Formosa policy
must have warmed the heart of
the Kremlin.
This sort of thing, from
London Labor “Daily Herald”:
“The crisis is not yet over. A
few trigger-happy men —Chinese
or Americans —could still wreck
the world’s hopes of eventual
peaceful coexistence between
East and West. It is an unneces-
sary, almost a wanton, crisis. It
has arisen from the grotesque
policy of pretending that a dis-
credited and discreditable war-
lord named Chiang Kai-shek is
the real symbol of China.
“Mr. Attlee has led the opposi-
tion to that policy. He has
spoken for Britain, and, we
believe, for most of the world.
Those who agree with Mr. Attlee
are not anti-American. The idea
is ludicrous, for the area of
common and basic agreement
between the two countries is
extensive.
“But Britain and America
disagree over recognition of
China, and Britain has not, and
never has had, the slightest
interest in appeasing Chiang.
“If a policy the British people
oppose threatens.to produce war,
local or otherwise, it is the duty
of British statesmen to speak,
and speak plainly. That is what
Mr. Attlee did. He spoke for
peace.”
Putting it much more moder-
ately, “Manchester Guardian”
noted that “Americans in
London are having a hard time
explaining to their English
friends the official policy (or
policies) on Formosa. Even
those Londoners who are warm
supporters of the alliance are
critical of American policy.
“The Americans here say that
many English people talk as if
Britain had no interest in South-
East Asia and that they find
Australians and New Zealanders
have a better understanding of
the political and strategic con-
sequences of giving up Formosa.
The Americans are also per-
turbed by the failure of people
to appreciate that the object of
their present moves is to end the
fighting between Chou and
Chiang, to put many miles of
turbulent sea between the two
forces.”
“New York Times’s” corres-
pondent in London, Drew
Middleton, setting out the
“fundamental differences of
approach between Britain and
the U.S. toward the Far East,”
states:
“Within the limits defined by
their commitments in Asia the
British are willing to deal directly
or indirectly with the Communist
Chinese inside or outside the
United Nations.
“In Washington the idea seems
to be developing that it would
be a good thing if a settlement
in the Far East could be reached.
Here [in London] the feeling is
that a settlement must be
reached. This may well be an
expression of the elemental belief
in these [British] islands that,
while for the United States a full-
scale war would be a question of
victory or defeat, here the ques-
tion would be survival.”
In a forthright reply to
Britain’s Socialists, London
“Daily Mail” said it never
thought that “any British M.P.
would propose that we [Britain]
should curry favor with our
enemies by refusing help to our
friends. That suggestion has been
made by two Bevanites.
“One was Mr. Driberg, who
asked whether we should not
deny repair facilities at Hong
Kong to worships engaged
against China. His chief, the
Great Bevan himself, was even
more contemptible.
“He said Britain was only in
Hong Kong by permission of
Red China. We should therefore
‘avoid any provocative action’ —
meaning that we should repulse
Americans seeking the normal
humanities. Let ’em sink! Let
’em drown!
“That is implicit in what they
said. It reflects the bitter anti-
American feeling propagated by
many Socialists.
“We read in one Left-wing
paper that if the American
Seventh Fleet is engaged it will
be because of the ‘blindness and
folly’ of the U.S. in intervening
in the Chinese civil war and
‘seeking to reverse the Asian
revolution.’
“This comment refrains from
saying what that revolution is.
It is a Communist revolution
which has already expelled the
British from Shanghai and
robbed this country of property
worth £3OO million.
“It is a revolution which has
brought war to Malaya and
taken Indo-China from the
French. It is a revolution which,
unhindered, will swallow Siam,
Burma, Malaya and India, too.
“For these reasons we call the
Chinese Communists our
enemies. This is the revolution
which the Americans in their
‘blindness and folly’ are seeking
to checkmate. St rang e 1 y
enough, we [the “Daily Mail”]
think they are right.
“In looking after themselves
they help us [British], too. We
have to rely on them more than
we ought because the Socialists
failed to provide us with modern
weapons. They were too busy
ruining the railways.
“The Korean war occurred
because the Americans left the
peninsula. The U.S. wants to
prevent that happening again,
which is why she holds on to
Formosa. We believe she should.
If that island went the American
defence-chain could be turned,
north and south.
“Japan would surely gravitate
towards the new China, and all
Asia would follow. What a
situation for Australia and New
Zealand!
“Let us try to see this broader
picture before we stab America
in the back. We do not believe
there will be a fight over
Formosa. But if there is, China,
unaided, could never stand up to
the power of America.
“An impressive demonstration
of that power is the Seventh
Fleet, operating 5000 miles away
from home. It is not there for
provocative action. The U.S. is
retreating, not advancing. It is
separating Chiang Kai-shek from
Chou En-lai.
“Chiang says his troops are
being redeployed for an attack
on the mainland. Poppycock!
He cannot do it without
American help, and America will
not give it. Neither will she
allow Chou to invade Formosa.
“In this fashion the position
may jell. There is no reason*
why there should not be two
Chinas —Nationalist on Formosa
—German humorous magazine, “ Simplicissimus”
COEXISTENCE—GERMAN VIEW
Europe's Bull: “This is fine, so long as he’s not hungry.”
and Communist on the mainland.
Such situations exist elsewhere.
“We do not deny that matters
are dangerous. But they are
not helped by anti-American talk
from people who should know
better.”
Uncle Sam's
Commitments
Commenting on the U.S.
Senate’s ratification of the South-
East Asia Treaty Organisation,
the “Milwaukee Journal” notes
that “it commits us [the U.S.],
along with eight co-signers, to
act to meet common danger in
case of aggression by armed
attack”:
“This is the latest in a series
of interlocking agreements by
which the free world is building
a collective - defence system
against aggressive Communism.
“The United States is the
leader. It is the only nation
signatory to all of the agree-
ments. Consequently, it is the
only State that is so extensively
obligated, and that could pre-
sumably be called on to take
military action against aggression
in a number of widely separated
regions.
“Here are the formal commit-
ments shouldered by the United
States since the end of World
War II:
“The Rio Treaty (1947), by
which an armed attack on any
one of 21 States in the Western
Hemisphere would be considered
an attack on all.
“The North Atlantic Treaty
(1949), by which an attack
against any one of 14 States in
and around the North Atlantic
and Mediterranean basins would
be considered an attack against
all.
“The Anzus Treaty (1949) with
Australia and New Zealand, by
which an attack on any one of
the signatories would be deemed
dangerous to peace and safety.
“The Philippine Mutual
Defence Treaty (1951).
“The Korean Mutual Defence
Treaty (1953).
“The Spanish Mutual Defence
Agreement (1953).
“The Japanese Mutual
Security Pact (1954).
“The Seato Treaty (1955).
“These many links with
peoples that oppose Communism
have been forged under two
national Administrations —one
Democratic and the other
Republican. They evidence the
studied decision of the American
Government, after bitter experi-
ence of two wars following on
two tries at isolationism, to seek
strength in free-world unity.”
Russia—What Next?
Two opinions on the signi-
ficance of the Red reshuffle
which turfed-out Malenkov from
the Soviet Prime Ministership
and installed Bulganin in his
place:
London “Time and Tide”
thinks it would be a mistake to
regard these events merely as a
part of a struggle between per-
sonalities for personal power:
“The central problem may be
summed up as that of the rate
at which Communism should
expand its power. The issue is
not between a policy of outright
aggression and complete retreat.
The extremes are not so wide as
that. One extreme is a policy of
extreme toughness and inflexi-
bility in relations with the
Western world, of exploiting
every possible weakness among
the non-Communist nations and
of concentrating on building-up
Russia’s economic and military
might at the expense of the
Soviet peoples.
“The other extreme is a policy
of caution and consolidation, of
a slower build-up of military
strength and more consideration
for the people at home, of co-
existence with the Western World
and of diplomacy rather than
threats.
“Advocates of both these
policies have the same end in
view—the ultimate extension of
Soviet power throughout Europe
and Asia and even farther. But
the advocates of the ‘tough’
policy see victory in Europe and
Asia nearly within their grasp
and think it foolish to wait. The
‘go-slowers’ think that, given
10 years to consolidate their
power over their already vast
Communist empire, the ultimate
victory would be a pushover.
“It is not easy to say which
policy holds the greatest dangers
for the Western world. The
tough policy obviously, involves
a greater danger of war; but,
despite Mr. Molotov’s boasts, a
war at this time might well bring
the Soviet regime to the ground
and for this reason the Russians
may strive to avoid one. The
soft policy would leave the world
at peace for the time being ; but
that peace would almost certainly
lull us into a sense of false
security. In a sense the ‘soft’
policy is in the long run the most
dangerous for the free world.
“At all events, it is the
advocates of toughness who have
triumphed.”
Not altogether in agreement
with the “Time and Tide” view,
London “Economist” points out
that there was very little that was
“soft” in Malenkov’s policy.
Further, “the new regime has
lost no time in showing that it
has not closed any doors that
were open in Malenkov’s time”:
“For the free nations, the most
important lesson to draw from
Malenkov’s fall is surely not
that the age of ‘coexistence’ is
now over, but something far
more fundamental—a lesson
about the essential nature of the
Communist system itself.
“The idea that there is any
kind of democratic element in
the Soviet political system was
disproved in blindingly clear
fashion when the 1300 members
of the Supreme Soviet meekly
and unhesitatingly accepted a
change of Government forced
upon them by backstage
intriguers who did not even
trouble to make out a convinc-
ing explanation.
“And the idea that Com-
munism offers an easy road to
economic plenty for any back-
ward country vanished in the
same puff of smoke. The fall of
Malenkov and Mikoyan was a
portent for all of Asia and
Africa ; and it is to be hoped
that the record of the past few
months will be studied carefully
enough for all to see that in
Communist practice the well-
being of the people is at the
mercy of the arbitrary and
doctrinaire decisions of the men
at the top.”
Panama
After 15 months of negotia-
tions, the U.S.A. and the
Republic of Panama have agreed
on a new treaty to replace the
1903 agreement which covered
the 10-mile strip on each side of
the canal.
In the main, as London
“Economist” sees' it, the new
agreement consists of concessions
made by the U.S. to meet a
number of long-standing griev-
ances which have aroused strong
resentment in Panama and other
Latin American countries:
“The new treaty abolishes
what has been the greatest source
of friction between the two
countries —the differential rates
of pay for employees from the
U.S. and the Panamanians and
West Indians who make up the
local labor-force. In the past,
U.S. workers have been paid


Get more work done with BEDFORD
like most Australian Truckmen
In any line-up of trucks you’re bound to see a big percentage of
Bedfords—simply because more Australian truck operators buy Bedford
than any other make. (Official registration figures prove this).
Truckmen know that hardworking Bedfords get on with a job
quickly, economically, reliably. Powerful British Bedford saves
money on first cost, running costs and man hours.
Bedford’s design means less wear and lower maintenance W
COStS. 1, JfM 1. W
Pound for Pound, feature for feature you can’t
buy better than Bedford.
Check these important features
# Choice of Models
Three powerful low-revving 6
cyl. O.H.V. engines power the
Bedford range matching power
to payload throughout. Maxi-
mum torques range from 168.5
to 234 lb. ft. There’s a Bedford
for every job.
# Long-life Engineering
The rugged Bedford chassis
frame, drive line and suspension
is engineered for each particular
capacity and wheelbase.
# Worm and Sector
Steering
Lightness of control and accur-
acy of steering are proved
characteristics of this design.
# Driver Comfort
The all-steel Bedford cab is
three-point rubber mounted for
road-shock-freedom . . . seats 3
big men in comfort.
@ Synchromesh Gears
All Bedfords have a 4-speed
gearbox with synchromesh on
2nd, 3rd and top. Split-seccind
gear changes are possible with-
out loss of engine speed.
# Hydraulic Brakes
Famous ‘Lockheed’ triple-safety
brakes are standard on all
models. Vacuum-servo assistance
on all models above 30 cwt.
Owr
mm
2
©
nininnHir
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
Sold and serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia
LTD.
• PERTH
0 G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire
Purchase arrangements are
available for your convenience.
Ask your Bedford dealer.
0 Bedford is backed by a nation-
wide service organisation.
Check Bedford’s prices for
Chassis and Cab.
BUILD YOUR BUSINESS ON BRITISH BEDFORD-AUSTRALIA'S FAVOURITE TRUCK...
three to four times as much as
other employees doing equivalent
work, as well as receiving a
variety of other benefits ; a single
basic-wage is now guaranteed
with equal pension-rights.
“In the second place, Panama's
claim to a larger financial stake
in the Canal —its one great
economic asset —has to a large
extent been recognised. The
annual payment to the Panama
Government for the use of the
Canal Zone is to be more than
quadrupled, from $430,000 to
$1,930,000 ; compared with- this,
tolls on all commercial vessels
passing through the Canal
amount to some $33 million a
year.
“Among other economic con-
cessions Panama has gained the
right to tax some 17,000 non-
American employees of the
Canal Zone who live beyond its
boundaries.
“Against this, the U.S. has
doggedly insisted—against strong
protest—on a 75 per cent, reduc-
tion in 'the Panamanian tax on
alcoholic drinks sold in the zone.
Other concrete advantages to the
U.S. include the right to build a
bridge at Balboa and the land-
concessions for military-training
purposes. But the main asset
Which the United States hopes to
derive from the new treaty is the
goodwill of this small but
strategically important republic.”
France and
Mendes-France
A post-mortem by the inde-
pendent “Paris-Presse”:
“France has experimented with
M. Mendes-France, but he
neither had the time nor the
means, nor perhaps the desire,
to apply the energetic therapy
which he advocated in the
Opposition. He lived from day
to day in action as his prede-
cessor had lived in inertia. His
great talent as a negotiator and
as a Parliamentary debater
allowed him to achieve two
important successes, the Indo-
China negotiation and the
liquidation of the malaise created
by E.D.C. [European Defence
Community].
“It is easy now to say that
peace in Indo-China had been
virtually reached when M.
Mendes-France made his famous
wager of July 20; that E.D.C.
was liquidated at the price of
direct German rearmament.
“But if last June’s 419 votes
invested M. Mendes-France
against all the rules of Parlia-
mentary politics it was because
he seemed to be a man capable
of coping with a situation that
was practically inextricable. At
that time the Government played
the role that was expected of it.
It went to the heart of the matter.
“M. Mendes-France was very
popular in France, but the charm
was broken when the Premier
began to practise the Parlia-
mentary politics which he himself
had so much criticised. It was
evident, too, that no more
miracles could be expected in
foreign and North African
policy.
“The 319 votes which refused
confidence to the Government
included 96 Communist votes;
there are therefore 223 votes
which will support the future
Government. However, the next
Government will have to rally
some of the votes which sup-
ported M. Mendes-France.
“This consideration should
reassure those who already
think that France has just left
adventure to return to inertia.
There is no place in the modern
world for a ‘seesaw’ policy.”
German Unification
Some doubts, as expressed by
Munich’s independent “Sud-
deutsche Zeitung”:
“For the last five years we
[West Germany] have succeeded,
in difficult and interminable
negotiations, in preparing the
rearmament of West Germany.
But nothing or almost nothing
has been done during these five
years to prepare the re-establish-
ment of German reunification.
The Western nations and the
Bonn Government have con-
formed to the thesis that our
strength should be ' increased
before opening negotiations with
the Soviets.
“However, many Germans are
asking whether, once the Paris
treaties are ratified, we will
witness the same perseverance in
the cause of reunification. The
Parliament and the Government
and the high organs of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation
have spent a great amount of
energy to produce West German
rearmament. But will they show
the same energy when it comes to
reunifying Germany?
“If the Germans are beginning
to doubt the sincerity of the
Western promises of diligent
application to the reunification
problem, it is because they can
confirm that the opinion is
spreading abroad that the
German desire for reunification
is a secondary phenomenon, an
annoying phenomenon and
basically irreconcilable with
Western interests.
“The really decisive problem
is to know whether the Western
—London “Daily Mirror”
WORLD FASHION TREND
Powers and the Bonn Govern-
ment can find a common basis
which will permit them to
negotiate with the Soviets. On
the answer to this question will
depend the true assent of the
German people to rearmament—
not the juridical and exterior
assent, but the psychological and
political assent.”
Various Voices
Conservative M.P. for Hert-
fordshire South-West, Gilbert
Longden: “We [the British] are
a strange people. How often
have we wished that the United
States had made its intentions
clear in 1914 and 1939. Prob-
ably one, perhaps two, world
wdrs would have been avoided
had it done so. Yet now when
America warns China that an
attack on Formosa is an attack
on her, we do not acclaim such
warning for what it undoubtedly
is—much the most likely thing to
prevent war in the Far East.”
U.S. Senator Morse: “We [the
U.S.] are not attuned to the
Oriental mind. We are a nation
of doers. We are people who,
when we see a job which should
be done, ask the simple ques-
tion: Why not go about doing
it? The Oriental mind is not
attuned to that sort of direct
action.”
Mr. Nehru: “The problem [of
defence] is considered far too
much in military terms. No one
can ignore the atom-bomb or the
hydrogen-bomb. But defence
surely is something more than
mere military defence. You
don’t win a person’s mind by
pointing a gun at him. If one
attaches too much importance
to military considerations you
may lose something very valu-
able. That is the people’s
support. That is much more
important ultimately.”
U.S. Assistant Secretary of
State, Thruston B. Morton:
“Communism now has a solid
Asian base. Its flank is guarded
by the Soviet Union —which also
serves as a support element.
Whether or not they border on
Communist China, all nations in
the Far East are susceptible to
its influence by reason of trade,
cultural ties, or through the large
Chinese minorities which are to
be found in almost every country
of the region. Thus, from the
China base, the Communist con-
spiracy can exert considerable
pressure everywhere in the Far
East.”
Major R. H. Turton (British
Parliamentary Under-Secretary
of State for Foreign Affairs ) :
“If Western Germany lay
unarmed and neutral she would
soon suffer the fate of Eastern
Germany and the Iron Curtain
would roll to the Rhine. How
popular that would be for the
Germans can be gauged by the
number of refugees from the
Eastern Zone who each week
cross, or attempt to cross, the
frontier to the West.”
General MacArthur: “Each
side, so far as the masses are
concerned, is equally desirous of
peace. The leaders are the
laggards. Never do they dare to
state the whole truth; that the
next great advance in the evolu-
tion of civilisation cannot take
place until war is abolished. It
may take another cataclysm of
destruction to prove to them
this simple truth.”
C. J. Geddes (chairman of
the British T.U.C. general coun-
cil): “British trade-unionists
must decide their attitude
towards European economic
integration.”
J. Edgar Hoover (director of
the U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigation ): “World War II
would never have occurred had
there been any real understand-
ing of the menace which the
world came to know as Nazism.
In its early days this creeping
terror was disregarded and its
disciples were laughed at as
funny men, malcontents and
crackpots. The fifth-column
victories of the Nazis have been
surpassed by the fifth-column
victories of the Communists.
The blueprints and objectives of
these Red Fascists have been
proclaimed to the world with
far more clarity than those of
Hitler. Unfortunately, there are
many seemingly well-educated
and intelligent people in our
own country who have not yet
awakened to the threat to our
peace and security.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Weather Forecasts
Forecasts issued by the N. S. Wales
Weather Bureau are sometimes accurate
and at other times hopelessly wide of the
mark. Is this because the bureau hasn’t
enough reporting-stations in the country
to serve its needs? Or does it fail to
use the information such stations supply?
Years ago I discussed weather-fore-
casting with the then chief of the N. S.
Wales Bureau, Mr. Mares, who told me
that if more money were spent on getting
reports from the country and other States
he would be able to supply much more
accurate forecasts. Pressure was put on the
Federal Government of the day and the
number of afternoon-reporting-stations
was increased, enabling the bureau to
issue an afternoon bulletin giving a pic-
ture of the weather throughout the State
up to 3 p.m.
Forecasts based largely on these reports
were more accurate than previously ; the
A.B.C. broadcast this up-to-date weather-
summary in its 7 p.m. news, enabling
country people to form a pretty good idea
of what they could expect on the morrow.
The bureau may still get these late-after-
noon reports, but if so the A.B.C. never
uses them.
It would help weather-conscious
people (and who isn’t?) if the A.B.C.
were to mention the actual state of the
weather in Sydney at the time of each
news-broadcast —such information is often
of greater value than the actual forecast.
All the national regional stations could
do the same; but to my knowledge only
one of them (2CR, Orange) does it at
present.
Regarding the forecasts, why does the
bureau persist in issuing these “for the
following 24 hours,” and then three or
four hours later bring out another fore-
cast covering much the same period?
Would it not be better to issue a series
of short-range forecasts, with, say, one
24-hour forecast every morning or even-
ing, whichever gives the greater prospect
of accuracy? The West Australian
Weather Bureau follows this practice, and
is usually well on the mark. The director
of the W.A. bureau told me some years
ago that he knew of no other way in
which a reasonable degree of accuracy
could be assured.
During the Royal tour of Australia
last year the weather 'bureau in each
State provided a much more accurate and
up-to-date service than I can ever recall
it having done before or since. Why can-
not we have similar reports all the time?
—M. F. D. (N.S.W.).
Drugs
The United Nations Narcotics Com-
mittee has placed Australia second in the
world on the drug-consumption list.
High in the dope-rating is the little
white phenobarbitone tablet. Anyone
Who has used them knows how you get
to like them ; they do slow your heart-
action down ; make you drowsy; mini-
mise your immediate problems, anxieties
and pains. Doctors do not intend them
to do more than that; their indiscrimin-
ate and regular use as a buffer against the
realities of a harsh world leads to a sap-
ping of moral and physical fibre.
It would help a lot if doctors used
restraint in their prescription, and if the
law against their illegal sale and possession
were enforced.
In the final analysis, an honest day’s
work is still the best and cheapest sleep-
producer and anxiety-queller on the
market. We’d be much better-off nation-
ally if this somewhat old-fashioned prac-
became habit-forming.— Quo Vadis
Another Norman Lindsay Trio
It is strange that Norman Lindsay has
never been compared with Leonardo da
.Vinci and Michelangelo, although the
comparison is obvious.
The three stand alone in their ability
to produce great works in half a dozen
Widely differing arts and sciences.
Leonardo, of course, was painter,
sculptor, engineer, architect, musician,
anatomist and naturalist. He was “a man
with an almost miraculous vision for
reality He was the first modern to
realise the true nature of fossils, he made
note-books of observations that still
amaze us, he was convinced of the prac-
ticability of mechanical flight” (H. G.
Wells, in The Outline of History). Fur-
ther, to quote the Encyclopedia Britan-
nica, he possessed “aptitude for all
accomplishments an inexhaustible in-
tellectual energy and curiosity In art
he was an inheritor and perfecter; in
science a pioneer.”
Michelangelo was sculptor, painter,
poet, architect. The whole pitch of his
deep and intense emotions was directed
to his one passion—art: “Art is a suffici-
ently exacting mistress,” he once said.
He wrote, it is true, with labor and
much correction ; yet his poems are said
to rank with the best in Italian poetry.
Is it presumptuous to add Norman
Lindsay to these two immortals? Like
the others, he has left undying work in
several forms of art, and his interests
and practical achievements extend be-
yond. Painter, sculptor, black-and-white
artist, author (who would not be content
with having produced Saturdee, Red-
heap, The Magic Pudding and the rest!),
model-ship builder, and, as the sample
of his letters (B. 2/2/’55) shows, an
authority on literature, the arts, some of
the sciences and, as they say, whatever
else.
“Aptitude for all accomplishments”?
“Inexhaustible intellectual energy and
curiosity”? “Almost miraculous, vision
for reality”? They’re applied to Leon-
ardo, but without much qualifying could
equally apply to the other two. — Keith
Ross (N.S.W.).
Don’t Do Anything
Why pick on Uncle Sam for standing
up to the Chinese Communists over
Formosa (B. 2/2/’55)? He said he would,
and he’s keeping his word. He has given
his word to a lot of other countries, too,
and I, for one, hope and think he will
keep it. Someone with a little guts and
conscience is needed to stand up to the
Reds, and, at present, the U.S. seems to
be the only country making a conspicu-
ous job of it.
And why pick on the same Uncle Sam
for his mistakes? He’s made ’em, of
course, but half the countries in the world
owe their economic well-being to him;
some of them owe him their very exist-
ence. Most of Europe and a good deal
of the East would look sick and sorry if
he packed his traps and went home.
John Bull hasn’t figured too well in the
last few years, anyway, with his policies
of “patient negotiation,” which, in the
end, have generally meant giving some-
thing away for nothing in return. India,
Egypt, Suez, Abadan and the rest —such
is the disease that has smitten the once-
great Empire that its leaders now seem
to jump every time some half-educated
nigger blows his top.
As I’ve read the British press for some
time, Great Britain’s interests are con-
tracting more and more to the welfare
and defence of the British Isles and hang
principles and places like Formosa ; and,
of course, Uncle Sam has contributed a
bit to present British defence, too.
London “Punch” has lately been run-
ning some amusing satires or parodies of
British newspaper editorials. I fell under
their influence after reading some press
attacks on America’s policy over For-
mosa. I dozed, and dreamed of reading
an editorial in a London daily in the year
1965:
“It is indeed a matter for regret that
the United States has threatened to de-
clare war immediately on the Sino-Soviet
bloc if it invades Australia. Provocative
language of this kind and threats of re-
taliation can do little to ease international
tension.
“It is important to be fully aware of
"What's happened, Martha? You've got pouches under your EYES!”
realities. While admitting that, the United
States assumed certain obligations to-
wards Australia under the Anzus Treaty
of 1949, it must be recognised that calmer
and more far-sighted minds of that time
foresaw the future pattern of developments
in the Pacific and would have forborne
from signing a treaty which, as events
have proven and are proving, can only be
a source of irritation on the international
scene.
“With the natural extension of Asian
" You're not measuring up to Squadron standards, old man."
interests down through the South-West
Pacific over the last few years, the Sino-
Soviet Republic now reaches as far as
Indonesia and New Guinea, and, what-
ever our own feelings, we must admit
that Australia is, in Asian eyes at least,
part of Asia, and that the old treaty of
1949 between the United States and Aus-
tralia can cause nothing but hostility and
a sense of frustration throughout the East.
And, although we as a nation hold to the
meeting of our obligations, there will be
many in this country inclined to the
belief that, seen in the light of the natural
and inevitable course of history over the
last 10 years, the Anzus Treaty is a
quixotic gesture rather than a„ practical
political document. The lesson here, as
history has taught before, is that inter-
national obligations should not be under-
taken if the fulfilment of them promises
to do more harm than good.
“Explosive as the deadlock is, however,
there is no cause for despair. The Prime
Minister, Mr. Bevlee, has flown to Wash-
ington and there are hopes that he will
persuade President Knowhow to adopt a
more moderate course. Many times in
his career Mr. Bevlee has proven the
value of his brilliant diplomacy. It was
he who succeeded in convincing the
United States of the futility of the United
Nations Organisation so long as the
Chinese Republic was denied membership
and it was not his fault that the U.N.
organisation eventually collapsed.
“It was Mr. Bevlee who, in the long
and tortuous conferences at Peking, fin-
ally persuaded the United States that the
defence of South Korea and Formosa
was both a dangerous and impractical
policy after Japan had joined the Sino-
Soviet bloc. And it was Mr. Bevlee again
who conducted the delicate and difficult
negotiations which led to the successful
neutralisation of Singapore.
“There is, therefore, reason to hope
that Mr. Bevlee’s influence in the role of
mediator and friend will ease the present
situation. There is, after all, some doubt
as to whether Australia, situated as it is
like an irritating appendix on the Sino-
Soviet Empire, is a political practicality.
It is a large island, but the larger part of
it is useless to its small European popu-
lation, whereas, to the more frugal Asians,
it represents desperately needed living-
space.
“These things must be looked at fairly
and squarely, as must the fact that a
considerable proportion of the Australian
population are already inclined to in-
elusion in the Sino-Soviet Empire and
would fiercely resent American interven-
tion in their affairs.
“It is comforting to know that Mr.
Bevlee is fully aware of these things, and
one may entertain the hope that he will
do his utmost to persuade President
Knowhow to follow a more moderate
course than the present American policy,
which could easily plunge the world into
A nuclear holocaust and mean the end of
European civilisation as we know it.” —
George Washington (A.C.T.).
Commonwealth Public Service
The P.M.G.’s Department does not
comprise 80 per cent, of the Common-
wealth public service (B. 9 / 2/’55). Taxa-
tion, External Affairs, Prime Minister’s
and Defence, to name only a few, reduce
that irresponsible estimate to much more
balanced proportions. Actually both the
postal and telephone services are under-
staffed on the basis of demands made
upon them.
As for the prospective increases in
postal charges (though these have aot
been officially forecast) because of all-
round marginal rises in salaries, the
prices of all commodities from matches
to motor-cars are likely to spiral again
for precisely the same reason. Why
should Commonwealth public servants
be deprived of such increments for skill
while the servants of State and private
enterprise profit by them?
The P.M.G.’s Department earns any-
thing from £3,000,000 to £5,000,000 a year,
and, in acquiring that revenue, carries
many of the non-productive services, such
as pensions, on its back. Since 1945, in
the face of public complaint rather than
co-operation, the engineers’ (telephone)
branch alone has put behind it a pro-
gramme of completed works unequalled
by any corresponding service in the
world. — Postscript (N.S.W.).
The cost of margins to the P.M.G. was
stated to be £2,500,000, not £8,000,000—
on the authority of Sir Giles Chippindall.
The rates must go up to help meet these
costs.
Anyway, the present rate for ordinary
letters is too small in comparison with pre-
war rates. In 1939 it was 2d.; it is now
3|d. Yet the basic-wage alone is three
times as much as it was in 1939. The
new rate could fairly be 6d. It will pro-
bably be 4d.
In 1939 it cost Is. 4d. for a 16-word
telegram; now it costs 2s. 6d. for 12
words. Still cheap, considering wage-
increases.
The public-telephone has been 2d. for
a long time. That will be altered, but
gradually. Consider again that it was
2d. when the basic-wage was £4.
Radio-licences have gone up to £2 from
£1 Is. pre-war. Consider how the A.B.C.
spends money on celebrity artists and on
its staff in comparison with 1939. The
licence could justly be increased to £3.—
Kounterman (S.A.).


Divorce Notice
“ T ?oUTH up lf£i! > ™ l j “ w
?2h, OU SS ffi^^ssa
***£% d?v"j
s ferS? sS;W-"jsj“
f»p. s « p
M.J UK Ml “*4y
L et OALLANn U ft C^ Se frora BERNARD
Montoe V t C 0" Solicitors, 24-26
SS&, I!SL,.°“ ulb “ m - - J -
ofvecioMu UloiteMt
~tb Amfuouy
Crusader is the most “suitable” cloth you can
buy suitable in every respect. It tailors
beautifully. It wears well. And, because it is
woven from the finest Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, it bolds its shape until the very end of its
many years of hard service.
.The new 1954 range of Crusader suitings is
now available cloths woven by a Mill that is
proud of its product, jealous of the integrity and
high reputation it has built up over 45 years of
continually improving its fabrics top quality
materials, woven by craftsmen. That is why
Crusader is able to give you an unconditional
guarantee that its materials will never fade or
shrink. So why not call on your tailor today,
and ask him to show you his 1954 Crusader
Pattern Book? It contains a new and very
attractive range of Pure Wool prize-winning
Worsteds.
You will be well suited in Crusader Cloth and
you’ll feel good because you’ll look good.
ftv usance
PURE WOOL
floth
GUARANTEED NEVER
TO FADE OR SHRINK.
€4.113
an eagle, slanted down with torn
wind hissing from its pinions. It
hopped to the body, stood on it,
sank its razor-edged bill into the
flank, opened the body with one
ripping slash —the flank, always
the opening for an eagle.
Kelly and his mates stood
hack and waited. They knew
their turn would come. They
knew the eagle could not take
the lot—there would be plenty
left for them. They waited.
Another day, working over the
rough country at the base of
some hills, Kelly found a
strychnine-laden bait which had
been intended for a dingo. Kelly
knew nothing about baits ; but
meat was always a meal for him
—fresh and running with red
blood ; old and dry; rotten and
putrid. It was meat.
Kelly tore that bait to pieces
and swallowed it in lumps.
There was enough strychnine in it
to kill half a dozen dogs. Some-
thing stirred Kelly. It may have
been the burning acridity of the
poison; it might have been an
internal revolt. He acted. He
arched his neck, opened his
mouth and half-spread his
wings; and the spasms which
shook him voided the whole of
the bait.
Kelly was off-color for a day
or two: his feathers hung awry ;
his alertness was lost; his
burnished gloss was dulled; he
was noticeably off his food. But
he recovered.
■Q AINS came early in the new
- B - v year. The earth spewed life,
particularly in the shape of
millions of millions of grass-
hoppers.
The crows dealt with those
[hoppers—they slaughtered them
in the baby stage; they dined
on them when they were mature
adults ; they sought daintier fare
and probed the ground for
sacs of ’hopper-eggs on the point
of hatching. That was succulent
stuff. It was an oyster in the
shell for an avian menu.
Kelly tired of that easy living.
He went to a sandhill where
coongaberries grew profusely.
He helped himself to those black
berries. Perhaps they amused
his digestive organs, tickled them
to fresh life. He slew ’hoppers
with fine impartiality when he
was among them; but his
appetite for them was tempor-
arily blunted: he wanted
stronger fare.
Kelly hunted bush-mice—
those ever-present, prolific
morsels of life which were always
ready to stage a plague in their
numbers any time the restrictions
were lifted..
The bird walked through the
Mitchell-grass, quartering the
ground for mice. He drove
unerringly into one large stool —
a bundle of grass which, to an
ordinary eye, held no life at all.
He held a squirming mouse in
his beak when he withdrew it.
He pounded that on a near
stone ; smashed it to pulp. Then
he lifted his head and swallowed
it in one long gulp. He turned
again, and, successively, drew out
five naked bodies of blind life.
They followed their mother!
There was always work for
Kelly and his mates.
The general lambing began.
The crows flocked to the lamb-
ing paddocks. There was much
for them to do: messes of birth
had to be cleaned; breeding-
places of flies had to be
destroyed; the world had to be
P ure - If a lamb died at
birth, as odd ones did, they also
had to receive attention from the
crows. Kelly and his mates
attended to that.
A motherless lamb called for
its mother. The crows found the
lamb before it knew it was lost.
They flocked on it —jeered at it,
tweaked its tail, balanced on its
loins, pecked its ears. The lamb
stumbled and fell. A pick-axe
drove into its eye as it tried to
rise; black devils in feathers
swarmed on its body.
The crows tried to capitalise
their victory: they pecked out
the eyes, nibbled the ears, left a
wealth of untouched food after
they had gone their limit. They
could not open the body. They
had to wait again for natural
causes or some other creature to
do it for them. The crows
waited. They had plenty of
patience. Time, as they knew,
always favored them.
The year continued its course.
The urge took the crows when
summer’s heat arrived: Kelly
and his white-eyed mate
returned to their nest in the
coolibah-tree on the creek. They
refurbished it a little. They
indulged their nuptial dance.
They chased one another in the
high heavens; they toyed with
space; they played with
distance; they danced on air.
Then the serious business of life
really began.
A T the killing-yard at the head-
station, Kelly was attracted
by sheep-pelts hung on a fence to
dry. He knew there were chunks
of fat and other choice bits to be
dragged from those pelts.
This time the fleshy sides were
painted with an arsenic-
impregnated concoction as pro-
tection against weevils.
That meant nothing to Kelly.
In his opinion, perhaps, he may
have considered man in his softer
moments had added a condiment
to tickle his palate. He took hold
of a lump of fat, tugged, lifted it,
swallowed, flew away 40 digest
his meal.
His stomach protested. Kelly
spread his legs, arched his neck,
opened his beak, got rid of the
offensive matter.
Kelly was quick on the uptake.
He had to be. He knew after
one lesson that those pelts were
no good to him. He kept away
from them. Thus he was not one
of the many birds which took a
bait to which phosphorus had
been added. He saw those birds
die miserably—feathers awry,
body gasping, head drooped.
They could not spew that bait
without leaving some trace of
the phosphorus. They died —
and they went miserably to their
deaths.
Kelly had enough. He rose on
strong wings, called an avian
curse on the yards and those
associated with them, and went
back to his nest in the coolibah.
One morning, just after her
complement of four eggs had
been laid, Kelly’s white-eyed
mate called an alarm.
An unearthly yell sounded in
the dull light of dawn: a stricken
spirit, the gasp of a ghoul,
maniacal laughter. The crows
never hesitated: they charged in
twin streaks of black hatred.
They Converged on a grey mist
in feathers which was drifting
through the air; they harried it
—dived at it and lifted feathers
with their beaks—chased that
false harbinger of rain, the storm-
bird, which was also known as
the channel-bill giant cuckoo.
They chivvied it, and did not
leave it, until they had hunted it
a couple of miles along the
creek.
The storm-bird rested on the
bough of a tree, and its twenty-
four inches of life dissolved into
nothing as it blended with the
foliage. \
The crows sheered off, took
station on adjoining trees, and
waited until the storm-bird took
flight again. Then they chased
it till others took up the hunt.
Kelly and his mate flew back
to their nest. They may have
offered mutual congratulations
upon the way they had hunted
the storm-bird. They may have
seen, though they took no notice
of it, that the broken shell of an
egg oozed yolk in yellow blots at
the foot of the tree. The same
number of eggs was in the nest
as previously four. One,
though, varied from the others,
It was yellowish-white, mottled
with brown.
Neither of them knew the male
storm-bird had acted as a decoy
to lure them to chase it while his
mate, the hen cuckoo, left hef
own egg in the deserted nest —
left it and tipped out one of the
rightful ones to make the
numbers right.
THE first time the crow left
the nest after the cuckoo-egg
had hatched, that gasping
monstrosity, cursed with an
intolerable itch, became busy,
It seemed to go into an insensate
rage every time another occupant
of the nest touched it.
By some means known only to
itself and an instinctive inclina-
tion that blind lump of flesh
worked its way under a newly
hatched baby crow. It hoisted
the chick on its shoulders. It
quivered under the weight. It
balanced itself by using its own
beak as the third leg of a tripod.
It struggled, hoisted and heaved,
and its muscles trembled with
the strain as it lifted its load and
tossed it clear over the edge of
the nest! Then it repeated the
performance until it had the
whole nest clear to itself!
The parent birds might have
noticed the reduction in their
family- Such brainy birds must
have realised it. They may have
attributed it to fate, and, as
such, have accepted it. Their
time was too fully occupied with
the glutton in the nest to worry
about the loss of their legitimate
children.
The alien chick grew amaz-
ingly. It never ceased to wheeze
for food. The parents worked as
never before. The thing clamored
incessantly for food.
The time came when the young
cuckoo was fit to leave the nest.
No young of any kind ever had
such doting parents. They flew
on each side of it; they guarded
it; they saw it land safely. Then
they turned as if commanded by
an emperor and bustled for food
for it, while it sat on a limb and
wheezed hideously for a meal.
The call came to the young
storm-bird: the urge to follow
the sun, to drift north. It was
then full-plumaged, had found
its voice,
TT'NOWLEDGE came suddenly
to Kelly and his mate. They,
the wise ones, the most astute
birds in the bush, had been
duped! They assisted that young
storm-bird to go: they fell on it
with beak and claw, harried it,
hastened its passage. That bird
went. It did not seem to worry,
It may have known it would
come back next year, and,
perhaps, repeat the performance
of its parents.
Kelly watched it go. He rested
on a limb after the alien had
gone. He appeared to ponder
deeply as he whetted his beak on
a bough as though to wipe away
all memory of the disgrace,
He sprang into the air; his
wings whistled as they bit, and
he called hoarsely once as he
suddenly remembered he had an
appointment to attend the
obsequies of a bogged sheep
whose end he had assisted and
which was now ripe for further
attention.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC,
THE...
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established, jor 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS'
Q’LAND':
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
Singapore :
N.Z.:
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
G. T. See Kee, Radoleetrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul<*
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
m e n t illus-
trated is the
world-
famous
“FARMERS'
BOY”
ROTARY
SCYTHE ,
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you'.
N.S.W.: Uraacos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
QTand: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. S. Aast.:
A. M. Johnson & Sons Ltd., 200-204
Grenfell St., Adelaide. W 1495&1824.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBEKT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
fa
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKREKE
I No Pads —
I No Springs
The NEO-BAHREBE
acts like a hand
•when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
barrere distribution CO.
(Dept. 3j), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
'DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO,
GRAZCOS'
FARM LABOR
a long trip through N.S.W.
one is apt to be depressed by
the number of farms one sees
which have a neglected, desolate,
half-abandoned look. Farm-
house set in a patch of bare
ground, no garden, no trees: a
few rickety sheds, fences totter-
ing, gates departing from their
hinges. And a glittering new car
standing at the door, to lend
point to the impression that the
owner is more interested in get-
ting away from his place than
working on it.
A common enough sight. If
anyone had the temerity to
mention to such a farmer the
neglected appearance of his pro-
perty, he would almost certainly
be told that it was due to the
impossibility of acquiring good,
reliable farm-labor.
It’s a problem, true enough ;
and, as an employer, I’ve had
cause to worry about it. But
after thinking it over a good
deal, and talking about it with
intelligent people, I’ve come to
the conclusion that the rural-
labor problem is largely the
r'esult of an exploiting type of
farming. Traditionally the
Australian farmer not only
exploited his land —he exploited
his labor as well.
The typical farm-worker for
a long time was a fellow who
came along with his swag and
was prepared to work cheaply—
for a time—-because he was
hungry. When there was no
further use for him he was
discharged; with no regard for
his future. Usually he went as
far as the nearest hotel; he
hadn’t much regard for his
future, either.
I can remember the days when
a great deal of the Riverina
(N.S.W.) was still being cleared
of virgin timber. This was
usually done by contractors, men
who lived in tents in the bush,
the tents usually surrounded by
ramparts of empty rum-bottles.
Our mother always warned us
to keep away from these
creatures, who at any time might
be having a bout of “the
horrors.”
The only one I remember
individually was exceptional in
that he was occasionally invited
to the house to play the piano
when we had guests (though we
always had to lend him a decent
pair of pants or a coat for these
grand occasions). It was alleged
that he had at one time been a
banksman ager, but this, I
imagine, was more-or-less a
manner of speaking —to
emphasise the magnitude of his
fall —bank-managers being the
ultimate in respectability in those
days. Anyway, I have never yet
met a bank-manager who could
play the piano. But, whatever
his previous occupation, fall it
was. Nobody was in any doubt
about that.
From these beginnings it is
easy to see why rural work has
-been, in general, shunned by the
laborer. So far as working-
conditions went (particularly in
certain districts) it has had a
bad name —“Workin’ from day-
light t’ dark for a hungry cocky.”
But these things are not neces-
sarily part of an agricultural-
industrial pattern. Consider, for
instance, rural labor in Scotland.
The average Australian,
perhaps—if he thought about it
at all—wouldn’t think the posi-
tion of a Scottish shepherd one
to be envied. “Shepherd,”
“crofter,” and such have a
humble sound. But a Scottish
shepherd has a status and a
dignity quite unknown in Aus-
tralia. He is a man highly
skilled in animal-husbandry
(almost an unknown art in Aus-
tralia), is usually well educated,
and may have a degree in
veterinary-science. He has the
entire responsibility for a flock
of, say, 1000 sheep, and in Scot-
land, where each sheep is worth
at least £lO, that’s a big
responsibility.
He lives in a house built to
last for centuries, in which he is
as independent as any Australian
home-owner. He takes the
respect of his fellow-citizens for
granted, without insisting on it:
in short, a man at ease with his
environment. But he doesn’t
own a single sheep or an acre of
land and doesn’t expect to.
Even the man who employs
him very likely doesn’t own any
land. The typical Scottish farmer
rents his land, but he is usually
a man of considerable means,
employing 10 to 20 men, all
highly skilled craftsmen who
take full responsibility for
specified farm-operations; all
decently housed, and all proud
of their calling.
The owner of the land is
likely to be a man bearing an
historic title, but the owner, the
farmer and the worker have a
relationship of mutual respect
and confidence.
In Australia the one-man farm
is considered to be the ideal, and
it savors of heresy to admire any
other form of land-occupancy:
but all thinking men agree that
there is room for improvement
in Australian agriculture. We
cannot but profit by studying
other systems.
Not all overseas systems of
agriculture are admirable, or,
indeed, as good as our own.
Some should be considered as
definite warnings, since certain
aspects of them illustrate a
logical development of tendencies
already well marked in Australia.
In certain areas of the U.S.A.
and Canada not only the farm-
workers but the farmers them-
selves are transitory.
It is the practice of the land-
owners to sow large areas of
wheat in the shortest possible
time by the use of enormous
machines; then pile into their
Cadillacs and Buicks, to disap-
pear until the crop is ripe ; then
it is harvested in a similarly
expeditious manner, after which
the owners jump into their cars
again.
No livestock whatever are
kept on the farms, no permanent
buildings of any value; scarcely
any fences or other kinds of
improvement. They are never
looked upon as places to take
a pride in, on which to make
a home. Incidentally, the farms,
the big machines and the auto-
mobiles are all likely to have a
heavy debt on them.
It seems to me, reading a
lesson from the two cases quoted,
that the answer to our problems
lies in adopting a more diversified
type of farming, for it is diversi-
fied farming that makes possible
a settled rural labor-force, which
in its turn ensures the develop-
ment of special skills which lead
to a pride in the work, and in the
farm.
The result over a long period
is a contented rural population,
highly developed farms, fine per-
manent buildings and a highly
developed system of soil-
improvement.
I have heard many bitter com-
plaints from landowners about
being obliged to build expensive
shearers’-quarters which are
occupied for only a few weeks
each year. Surely the answer is
not to make shearers camp in the
woolshed (after all, they are
entitled to decent housing, since
their entire working-time is spent
shearing), but to put permanent
workers in those expensive
quarters, and to evolve a more
diversified type of farming which
will keep them profitably
occupied for the whole of the
year, during which time, as part
of their usual duties, they would
do the shearing, as is the practice
in England.
There will be lots of objections
to this suggestion. Most land-
owners don’t want the trouble
of permanent employees, and
won’t try to think of ways of
varying and extending their
operations. Yet these variations
are gradually being forced upon
them by several factors: the
pressure of soil-fertility decline,
the doubtful future for wheat,
and the rising cost of land, which
demands a higher acre-return by
pasture-improvement and other
methods, all of which require
more labor.
The cropless grazing-property
and the stockless wheatfarm are
both examples of an unbalanced
system, which can rapidly lead
to soil-deterioration and erosion,
and an unstable rural economy.
I know of several hitherto one-
crop farms which have been
developed into splendid mixed-
farms because a number of grow-
ing sons couldn’t be provided
with farms of their own. As
well as sheep, they have cattle
and pigs, which can be integrated
conveniently into a combined
“Are you the Flying Doctor?"
system. Every year less wheat is
sold, though a good deal of it,
and oats too, is still grown.
These crops are used for stock-
feed, both for pasture and for
grain ; for topping-off stock and
as supplementary feed. Each
year they are selling more
produce “on the hoof” and less
“in the bag”—getting nearer to
Bromfield’s ideal of “never
selling anything from the farm
that won’t walk off on its own
feet.”
On these farms a comfortable
house is built for each son when
he marries. He and his wife
can look forward to raising a
family and enjoying a standard
of living which leaves them no
room for envying anybody.
An example: one of these
farms has new, substantial farm-
buildings, new or repaired fences,
and iron gates (manufactured on
the place with an electric-welder)
which are a joy to open and shut.
Where there were outrageous
gullies in the wheat-farming days,
there are now huge dams, which,
with spray-irrigation systems,
provide knee-high green lucerne
in dry periods.
These farms aren’t being
exploited: fertility build-up, as
proved by the increased yield of
crops and improved pasture-
growth, has been remarkable.
These farms, in fact, are rapidly
approaching the admirable state
of the English and Scottish
farms, and I fail to see why,
with a- little enterprise and
ambition, the same couldn’t be
done on thousands of one-line
Australian farms.
I know all about the complaint
that you can’t get decent
employees ; that the only farm-
labor available consists of
irresponsible youths whose con-
ception of farm-life is derived
from Hollywood movies, and
who expect it to be composed of
galloping horses to their ruin and
marrying the boss’s daughter ; or
married couples desperate for a
house when they are starting a
family, who leave as soon as they
get a house in town ; that no
employees ever take a real
interest in farm work or are will-
ing to take any of the responsi-
bility off the boss’s shoulders by
studying the science of agri-
culture. And, no doubt, I’ve
done my share of complaining.
But that’s a personal reaction.
My considered opinion is that if
you provide good jobs you will
get good men.
It will take time, I know. We
have been too late in starting,
and thousands of men and
women who would have been
ideally suited to start a new era
in Australian farming left the
country during the war-years and
immediately after. It is doubtful
if many of these could be induced
to return.
But it is a matter of national
importance. The preservation of
our soil and our future as a
nation are involved in it. Educa-
tion can play a big part. First,
the education of our farmers
through the Department of Agri-
culture, the Soil Conservation
Service (though some of these
bodies will need a little edu-
cating, too), and the like.
Banks and financial institu-
tions will need to be shown that
money spent on providing hous-
ing, fencing, sheds, water-storage
and all the machinery for putting
a diversified-farming system into
operation is economically
justified. Boys of school-age
will need to be convinced that
there is a worth-while future for
them in agriculture, without


Public Notice
WE, GEZA and ELIZABETH MARTON,
of Hungarian nationality, born Budapest
and Szekszard, Hungary, resident six
years in Australia, residing 23 Bapaume
Road, Mosman, intend to apply for
naturalisation under Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
Missing Friend
WILLIAM COCHRANE. Would any per-
son knowing the whereabouts of
WILLIAM COCHRANE, formerly of
Paisley, Scotland, who arrived in Aus-
tralia about 1946 and who resided at one
time at Yalloum, North Yictoria, and
Mackay, Queensland, please communicate
with CHAMBERS McNAB & CO., Solici-
tors, 33 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Swiss
WATCHES
FOR EVERY MEMBER
1 OF THE FAMILY...
5 YEAR GUARANTEE
CHROME
ROLLED GOLD
...flO'fO-
Chrome mesh *
vband 15/- extra
Rolled gold band
► 27/6 extra
17-jewelled lever water-protected anti-
magnetic watch in gleaming plated
case. Stainless steel back. Shock-
proof. luminous sweep second cali-
brated to 1 /sth second. Pigskin strap.
Y
CHROME .-..fd'lOV
ROLLED GOLD-dEIO'IO-
15-jewelled lever. First quality, very
smart. Full raised gilt figures.
Black cordette band.
CHROME
... t'6
A dream watch for every schoolgirl.
15 jewels, easily readable figures.
Assorted dial colours, leather strap.
CHROME STAINLESS STEEL
6AscA feather band... £s'*Ov
livery schoolboy's heart is set on this.
1)5 jewelled either raised gilt or
luminous figures. The counterpart of
maid's watch above. Chrome,
stainless steel back, leather band .
Diamond Eternity Rings
7-stone 18-ct. ring with an assortment
of ends and carved shonks.
Yellow gold , £lB/0/0
White gold £lB/10/0
5-stone 18-ct. ring, eoch stone in-
dividually claw-set.
Yellow gold £22/10/0
White gold „ £23/10/0
Write us for oil types of watches, rings
ond jewellery
MERCURY MAIL ORDER
PTYITD.
710 George St., Sydney.
All prices include registered post, but
charges.
Cut out this od»f,, mark the items you
wont, attach p.n., m. 0., or cheque, or
order C.O.D. and post NOW.
NAME
ADDRESS
THE ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
Ist to 12th April, 1955—10 days 8 nights
Best
Mineral
Supplement
<*%
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick*
f
OS
BM*
fV ovJ*
boh*
I'rf'V
4
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE i
Aay particulars gladly supplied-
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.PO. See 3SBJ.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. 80. 4058, MELBOURNE • GAO.
80. 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. 80. 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O 80. 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
going through the back-breaking
and often heart-breaking process
of first trying to earn enough
money to acquire land of their
own.
Public opinion will need to be
influenced, too. Films, radio and
newspapers can help here. A
bit less of the writers who have
recorded droughts, fires and
floods, loneliness and despair
from Lawson on; more of
writers with the interest in
character of Brian James, who
see farming as an enthralling
adventure, and one which can
give infinite satisfaction to a
man of mature mind.
Above all, a greater sense of
responsibility is necessary in our
landowners. A willingness to
start new enterprises ; to train
young men to use not only their
hands but their brains as well;
to learn to trust them with big
responsibilities, for nothing is
more stimulating to an employee
than responsibility.
E. O. SCHLUNKE.
Fats Without Water
“Quo Vadis”: On a Short-
horn-run in Central Australia
several young stockmen, late of
Vestey’s, are rearing cattle which
have never learned to drink and
their fats have been going
forward to the Adelaide market
in a constant stream.
The property embraces a
million acres, and the cattle
satisfy their thirst and nourish
themselves on the remarkable
parakalyie-grass which grows
only on the plains of the run;
two-thirds of the area is up to
3000ft. above sea-level.
The holding is 400 miles s.-w.
from Alice Springs and 200 miles
west from Oodnadatta.
Hundreds of Shorthorns were
fattened on a rainfall of
last year on the two varieties of
parakalyie, a dwarf and saltbush
type. The moisture from the
grass satisfies the stock's require-
ments, and they fatten on its
valuable nourishment in the
driest seasons.
More Feed More Wool
“Abbotwyn”: The better you
feed your ewes for the month
before they lamb and the month
after they lamb the more wool
you will shear every year from
their progeny.
Victorian sheep - and - wool
extension-officer P. G. Hyland
explains that the number of
wool-producing follicles on the
surface of a lamb’s skin depends
greatly on the feed its mother
gets in those vital eight weeks.
Any damage due to feed-
checks in this period affects a
lamb’s wool-production for life.
He advises:
1. Supply good-quality feed
before lambing.
2. Make sure that ewes do not
lose weight five or six weeks
before lambing.
3. Feed for good milk-
production of ewes.
4. Keep young lambs growing
and free of worms.
N.Z. White-clover
“Jubilee”: New Zealand
white-clover seed is in demand in
the U.S.A. The States of Oregon
and Washington officially recom-
mend it.
The demand is so great that
several countries are re-exporting
N.Z. seed, in some cases at a
loss, to get dollars. In the first
nine months of 1954 exports
from N.Z. rose more than
tenfold over total exports for
1953.
Last year, to July, Britain sent
36,0001b. to the U.S.; 31,0001b.
of this was N.Z. seed.
This is all good business for
N.Z. white-clover growers—for
the present. Similar conditions
existed for some years for the
favorite grass for lawns and golf-
greens known in N.Z. as Waipu
Brown Top, until U.S. growers
were able to raise it in sufficient
quantities to supply their own
market. Then a stiff import-
duty was imposed.
When to Pick Apples
“Big Billy”: In southern Aus-
tralia most apple varieties mature
between February and May,
each variety ripening over a
period of two to three weeks.
Most of the crop goes into
cool-storage ; how well the stored
apples keep depends largely on
maturity when picked.
Best way of discovering the
ideal picking-date is to study the
change in ground-color. As an
apple matures the ground-color
changes from green, to green-
yellow, to pale yellow, and finally
to deep yellow, when fully ripe.
For storage, fully-ripe apples
are useless, their life being
limited to a few weeks only.
Apples are best picked for stor-
age when the ground-color is
green, green-yellow, or pale
yellow, according to the purposes
for which they are to be stored.
Pick cooking-apples while the
ground-color is green. They
should be well grown before they
are picked, otherwise they will
shrivel in storage.
Most of the dessert varieties
are also excellent cookers, and
will keep a long time in storage
if picked when the ground-color
is still green. This applies parti-
cularly to the popular Granny
Smith, which does not carry the
red blush which the consumer
usually associates with dessert-
apples.
If dessert-apples intended for
storage are to develop reason-
able quality they must be left on
the tree until the ground-color
has changed from green to green-
yellow. However, if the apples
are to be stored for only a short
period—say, two to three months
—it would be wiser to pick them
at a more advanced stage of
maturity, when the ground-color
is, changing from green-yellow
to pale-yellow. Applies, parti-
cularly, to Jonathans.
It must be remembered that
there’s great variation in length
of storage-life between varieties.
Early-maturing have a short
storage-life, late-maturing a long
one. Therefore, varieties with a
short life, in store should be
marketed first.
Ragwort
“Ni Ni”: Masses of yellow
on the countryside warn Gipps-
landers and other southern Vic-
torians that ragwort is about;
it’s a danger to stock.
The weed produces obvious
symptoms among cattle —they
fade away and die fairly quickly.
Different with sheep ; they may
go through a season without
being affected obviously. For
this reason use of sheep to keep
the weed in check is often
recommended.
Good advice if you sell your
sheep every year to the butcher.
But you’ll strike trouble if you
graze the mob on ragwort for a
second season, or buy a mob
which has grazed the stuff for a
season already. Best for every-
one, if you have ragwort, to sell
the sheep for slaughter.
Like “yellows” (toxaemic
jaundice), ragwort-poisoning is
cumulative. It also produces
those yellowish and leaden post-
mortem symptoms associated
with “yellows.”
Drenching Programme
“Cqlweb”: This drenching-
programme for sheep against
internal parasites, in the next few
months, is recommended by Vic-
torian Department of Agriculture
veterinary officer J. Eckel:
1. Drench lambs and weaners
about once a month from now
until dipping-time.
2. Drench more often in
danger periods. These include
the period after the autumn
break, acute feed-shortages and
inability to give the flock
rotational grazing because
paddocks are flooded.
3. Drench autumn-lambing
ewes twice —about two months
and six weeks before lambing.
This programme is only part of
the full campaign against worms.
Other features include clean
water, good surroundings and
plenty of fresh digestible body-
building food.
The best supplements include
oaten-hay, wheaten-hay, good
grass-hay and clover. Provide
each at the rate of lib. to 21b.
a head daily, according to age,
weight and other feed. This gives
a maintenance-ration.
The addition of ilb. to £lb. of
grain per sheep daily gives a satis-
factory production-ration. The
higher the proportion of grains,
the better the production.
Antibiotics for Pigs
„ CA . A „ : Exhaustive tests ta
New have demon-
s t ra ( e{ j tlnrt use of antibiotics to
s t e p_ U p pig-production is of
value.
Feeding Q f the supplement in
thege tests d j d not i ncreaS e the
number of pigs carr i ed at any
Qne time This number still
depended on the amount 0 f milk
ayadable dady f rom tbe da i ry _
hefd
Antibiotics did not make
Antibiotics mu not maxe
P‘S S grow faster or more
economically.
Greatest value of the supple-
ment appears to lie in its use on
properties carrying large numbers
of pigs. The N.Z. trials showed
conclusively that antibiotics
could be a useful adjunct to
already - high production-
efficiency, but would not be a
means of improving basically
low-efficiency units.
Even where production was
high, the experiments showed
that there is only a 40-60 chance
that any improvement will
result.
Farm Hints
“Big Billy”: Crickets often
do considerable damage to late-
summer pastures, but their pref-
erence for bran over pasture at
a certain stage of development
leads to their downfall. Recom-
mended bait is 4oz. of 50 per
cent. B.H.C. or lOoz. of 20 per
cent. B.H.C. mixed with 301 b. of
bran. For younger crickets
pollard would be more effective,
the same proportions of mixture
applying. If the baits are
moistened just enough to settle
the dust they will go through a
seed-drill or manure-spreader.
Some ryegrass-seed spread where
infestation is most severe attracts
the pests to the baits.
“Metax”: Soon after the rain
finishes, examine the inside of
the galvanised guttering around
the eaves, especially those
sections with only a slight«slope.
Mark the lengths where the water
lies; keep these, at least, well
painted by giving them a coat of
roofing-paint as soon as the dry-
out permits. Paint on the inside,
where it can’t be seen, is more
important than on the outside,
where it can.
“Billjim”: As carrots are
tolerant to oil-sprays, use a
mixture of power- and lighting-
kerosene on a fifty-fifty basis
against weeds in the crop. If
results are not to your liking,
increase the proportion of power-
kerosene. Spray when the carrots
are in the “one-to-four” fern-
leaf stage, but not during hot
weather.
“P.”: Shells of eggs are
porous: so never store eggs
where they can be tainted by
odors from other goods.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(27-2-’55)
The Single cycle had indicated heavy rains in Sydney
and on portion of the coast last week, but no records are
available to support the severity of the disastrous floods
which are now sweeping N.S.W.
This cycle also indicates heavy rains in Melbourne
during the next week, but whether these will eventuate
remains to be seen.
Heavy rain should also fall on the North Coast and
Dorrigo, with moderate rains in other coastal areas,
on the Northern Tablelands, Central West and 1 Riverina (all
N.S.W.). o i_
Further rain and l showers should fall between the Bth
and 10th, and this should be confirmed by the present
sunspot groups.
LENNOX WALKER.


CHATEAU TANUNDA
W
. ~ . w,
\ V'y
If ■ *~»2
§ '
GOLD
*
%
Gold in the gullies, sparkling in the beds of creeks and on
rocky outcrops ; gold along the rough tracks ; gold in vast
reefs and in 1,000 oz. nuggets; gold to lure adventurers
from the far ends of the earth ; gold to turn a colony
into a nation !
We who look back on the fabulous years that began with
the finding of payable gold in New South Wales and
Victoria in 1851, sometimes forget how that discovery
became the greatest single event in our history. Almost
overnight it changed Australia’s way of life.
In crowded wagons, on foot and on horseback, alone and
in groups, equipped with anything that could be used to
scratch the earth’s surface, vast hastening hordes set out
from Sydney, Melbourne and other centres to trek to
outposts where the precious metal had been found.
Over Australia’s cities there fell a pall of silence. Shops
were deserted and business fell into chaos as workers
rushed off to the diggings. Ships lay idle at
their moorings, abandoned by crews.
For some of the gold-seekers it was a time
that was to bring riches beyond imagination,
for others despair and defeat. For Australia
to bring the first signs of nationhood.
The “gold standard” of Brandy
Nugget: 1,000 ozs.
CHATEAU TANUNDA
rjhej/ifmufa c^MUndim
A Product of the House of Seppelt
Agents in N.S.W.
TUCKER AND COMPANY PTY. LTD. EST. 1838
Tank, some miles east, in 1946.
It is a beautiful book, volume
two of a large Family Bible,
complete with engravings, and
the Books of the Apocrypha,
The text commences with the
Lamentations of the Prophet
Jeremiah: “How doth the city
sit solitary that was full of
people,” concluding with a
hymn: “The hour of my
departure’s come,” and some-
where in Ecclesiasticus I found
the verse: “He that loveth his
son, causeth him oft to feel the
rod, that he may have joy of him
in the end.”
No one knows how the book
came to the Ivy Shed Tank or
what befell its owner.
I was also shown the Visitors’
Book. You might think it would
be a lonely life on an outback
station along the Eyre highway,
but many and varied are the
passers-by. Here are recorded
the names of visitors from many
countries, some of them famous,
and many just ordinary people
grateful for hospitality: Paddy
Giles, for instance, for six long
years a grader-driver on these
roads, who wrote, “Remember
me!”; others who appreciated
“the curtices of country store-
keepers” ; the driver of a stolen
car, nicknamed “Hot Chips”;
gay vagabonds and tourists and
business people. “Gee! But it’s
a long way,” someone wrote,
and “the most welcome sight all
day—someone to talk to! ” And,
of course, there were the circus
people!
The circuses often travel the
highway, and occasionally are
held up by floods or accident.
Not many children have had a
circus in their own backyard,
But at Koonalda a circus once
stayed for 10 days while a search
was carried out for a couple of
lost horses. Monkeys jumped
out of the trees at passers-by,
and the children had elephant-
rides and the time of their lives
with the clowns and other per-
formers. Once, yodelling Buddy
Williams was held up there by
floods.
The days passed quickly. In
the yard we found lambs with
their eyes picked out by crows,
and in the paddocks sheep with
faces mauled by the dingoes,
Audrey baked 32 loaves of bread
in four days; and Grandfather
was hard at work on an under-
ground-tank while everyone
prayed for rain.
Then, one day, the truck was
loaded with empty drums, and
we were on our way east again,
after many warm farewells,
Some of the shed-tanks were
erected when the telegraph-line
was put through, and Guine-
warra certainly looked a relic,
with its small tarred tanks and
dilapidated iron-roof. Yan-
goonabie, known as Greek Tank,
is a low underground-tank with
Yangoonabie Rockhole behind
it.
Eight miles to the south are the
cliffs, 300 ft. sheer walls with
beautifully colored strata, great
bands of red and grey and snowy
white. Gundalabbie, with three
tanks and old-iron catchment, is
known as New Shed. At Wigunda
there was an underground-tank
and a gate, With a lonely road
leading north to Cook on the
Trans-line,
The road was badly cut-up in
places, and creeks had flooded,
washing sand across it. It was
a lonely road, fringed with scat-
tered trees and the telegraph-
line, and I kept having the
impression that there could be a
township over the next rise, but
none came into sight.
At Mallabie tanks there were
three small sheds, and we saw
the back of a wombat running
behind a bush. Wombats are
said to be plentiful along the
highway, but this was the only
one we were to see.
Roy was seeing red, having
done some oxywelding without
proper eyeshades, and
Dudley had to take the
wheel.
Nullarbor station has
a history. I have heard
that it was originally
financed in a very un-
orthodox way. One
of the early partners
was a rather bright
boy. To us the home-
stead was merely a
shadow in the night.
There was a turn-off
to White Wells station,
and at one of the ramps
we nearly collided with
“old Baldy” and
another horse and foal.
For nearly 80 miles
the road led through
the property of
Colona station. Originally White
Wells, Colona and Yalata were
part of one big station. In early
times as many as 100,000 sheep
were shorn. Bad years reduced
the numbers, and the land was
surveyed in smaller blocks.
G. W. Murray, who started here
as a rouseabout, later bought the
property, and it entered another
period of prosperity.
The Head of the Bight was
due south of us at Twin Rocks.
We were leaving the areas south
of the Nullarbor, and entering
bush country. A coldly official
notice read: “Shut this gate,”
with a threat of £5O fine or six-
months for non-compliance.
At Ivy Sheds we saw no ivy,
but there were the tanks and a
carload of people with a cheery
fire, a tent and curious eyes.
Soon afterwards we passed the
spot where a car had recently
overturned.
The timber was improving and
the country was becoming less
drab. We passed the turn-off
to Nannera, once a large station,
with now only a caretaker.
For the first time since Fraser’s
Range we saw grass, short-bladed
and grey, picked out by the
headlights. There were tanks at
Tallowan and Waltabie. A fox’s
eyes glowed like embers in the
darkness.
Colona homestead was back
fbpm the road in the shadows
beyond a big iron woolshed.
The moon came up, like a barn
on fire, and we passed two carts
abandoned by natives.
Then, about 170 miles from
Koonalda, we left the highway
and took the turn-off to
Coorabie, the first township since
Norseman, sporting a hall and
the school and a store. Here
the land is more closely settled,
and it is only a mile or two
between neighbors.
It was after midnight when
we reached the old farmhouse,
perched on a hilltop looking over
to Fowler’s Bay, where Dudley
lives with his other brothers, and
where the dogs came yapping to
meet us.
I felt as tired as most people
who say they have only the
strength to fall into bed, and
after a late meal I fell asleep
thinking of the lonely miles we
had travelled, the country
spanned by the miles of singing
wires, of my kind-hearted friends
and their hardships in the
drought - country, and the
children in the dusty yard, nurs-
ing the frail lambs with legs too
spindly to support their dying
bodies.
COORABIE
TO FOWLER’S BAY
YVfOOKATA (according to
Daisy Bates, a corruption of
Woggurda, “a valley”) is about
14 miles from Fowler’s Bay.
There I met Tiger, a ’roo-dog
that jumps fences with great
ease, and is either extremely
affectionate or likes wiping his
nose on people.
When I resorted once again to
the pushbike, it was to discover,
through my stiffness, how lazy
my “walkabout” had become.
On the road back to Coorabie
(the name perhaps derived from
“kura-gabie,” “magpie water”)
there were great flocks of galahs,
pigeons and crows, and in a
paddock in the valley I met an
old man from Queensland with
four camels.
A washing-up square-dance.
He told me that most people
don’t employ the animals most
suited to our cpuntry. Camels
don’t cut up the ground, and
flourish on what even the poorer
areas produce.
Two of the camels were
hobbled in the paddock, and I
took their photos. One gave me
a dignified and disdainful look
and the other ignored me, and
went on eating stubble. I believe
a third had been shot the day
before for trespassing.
The country was grey, with
smoky views, as though seen
through dark glasses. At
Coorabie I visited the store. I
had now reached the land of
“T’othersiders,” and was re-
minded of it in various ways.
At the Gurneys’ I had been
introduced to a great flagon of
South Australian wine, and at
the store there were the labels
of South Australian orchards on
the fruit- and jam-tins. When I
asked the lady for a pencil,
although she seemed to stock
everything from socks and sauce-
pans to treacle and tennis-balls,
she said she had never been asked
for a pencil before, and when I
noticed pne in a far corner she
asked: “Where’s it to?” It
wasn’t the last time I was to hear
the expression.
Many comments were passed
on my numberplate. People
seemed amused that pushbikes
had to be licensed in the West.
The little cemetery at Coorabie
is beautifully kept despite the
dry earth and the grey grass-
patches. A number of children
are buried there. One headstone
reads simply: “Little Jim.”
Another, of blue granite, with
neat blue cement, stones, rail-
ings and vase, is in memory of a
little girl aged seven, Beth
Lenette Hardy, and bears the
inscription:. “For ever wilt thou
grieve and she be fair.”
At the crossroads near the little
War Memorial a sign indicated
that I was now 1142 miles from
Perth. There was, of course, a
headwind. A few miles down the
road on a hilltop were the build-
ings of the Yalata homestead,
and I crossed a fence, walking
over what could have been in dry
weather a beautiful drive, and in
wet weather almost the “oyster-
bed” from which the native name
is derived.
Price Maurice, an Englishman,
arrived in Australia in 1840. It
is said that from first to last he
was solely a pastoralist. From
Adelaide to the north and to the
west he took up leases, opening
vast tracts of country, moving on
as settlement developed, and
many famous estates were in
his hands at one time or another.
His head-station was at
Pekina. The general-manager
there, W. R. Swann, decided to
examine the country due north
of Fowler’s Bay, and, finding
Maurice cautious, took Ban-
Smith as partner, and two years
late.r introduced sheep into these
practically unknown areas.
Swann was a reserved man.
As someone said, “He wrapped
himself in wool.” He founded
many wells, including Koorin-
gibbie (“iguana water”), and the
run prospered. Later he acquired
the properties of other comers,
until the firm held more than
2000 square miles of good
country, extending almost from
the Western Australian border
to Mudamuckla, and north into
the unexplored interior.
Later the Government com-
menced resuming the leased land,
and the firm bought some of it
back. In 1904 George Murray,
who had first arrived in the
1860's, bought what resumptions
and the rabbits had left of the
old run.
The original homestead was
built in the shelter of the sand-
hills in the early days, when
native attacks were feared, the
site being shifted later to this
quiet hilltop, a good safeguard
against ambush. The house was
rebuilt by George Murray.
There are extensive outbuildings,
storerooms and the shearers’-
sheds and -quarters, and the
house itself, a gracious and sub-
stantial building, now the head-
quarters of itinerant rabbit-
trappers.
There were three trappers
yarning on the front veranda
when I called. They usually
catch the rabbits by spotlight and
send them in chillers to the city,
often as many as two-hundred
pairs in a night.
Later I met a woman who had
stayed at Yalata as a little girl,
at a time when there were gay
parties and throngs of visitors.
wShe remembered the dinners and
balls, the glassed-in fernery,
beautiful drapes and carpetings,
silver and chinaware; and she
also remembered how sad the
views were, when Murray would
sit gazing from the wide windows
in times of drought, hoping for
the rain-clouds which did not
appear.
Now the house is haunted by
the sad ghosts of the past. The
stained-glass of the front-door
proclaims the name Yalata.
There are vast rooms with high
ceilings, folding-doors and huge
fireplaces. One, the bird-room,
has window-seats and sparrows’-
nests in the corners. The reading-
room had piles of old news-
papers on the floor, and a couple
of empty beer-bottles.
In the trappers’ bedroom I
saw skin-rugs on the floor, and
in their kitchen kerosene-box
chairs and tables with newspaper
tablecloths. The kitchen proper
is a great cavern-like room with
little tunnels leading to the
pantries, the meat-room and
other recesses. There are tiled
passages, halls and skylighted
courtyards, and great stone tanks
at the rear.
Negotiations have been under
way for some time for Yalata to
be taken over as a mission-
station, where natives from these
areas could be gathered together
in a more-or-less self-supporting
community. Some people
consider it a shame that a
property still capable of sup-
porting several families of white
people should be so “wasted.
Beyond the house there are
two walled enclosures. One
contains the flanks of a broken
cross, and the other the graves
of Jane Hardwicke, who died in
1868, and Jessie Murray, died
1880. Outside the enclosures is
a grave with a plain slab
inscribed: “To the memory of
Richard Thelwall Maurice,
explorer. Died 24, April, 1909.
Aged 49 years. At rest.” He
was the son of Price Maurice.
{To be continued next week)


SECOND-HAND BOOKS
Our second-hand department has re-opened ... In bright
new surroundings.
YOU will welcome its reappearance in the basement, in
a bigger and quieter position, which will enable you to
look around in comfort.
COME in and see the big stocks of second-hand and rare
books on every subject, and from all over the world —
and bring in the books you wish to sell.
You’ll find all the hooks you want at .. .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereaigh Street, Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Booksellers are now taking orders for
Marguerite Steen
BULLS OF PARRAL. A magnificent new book that
surpasses even “The Sun is My Undoing. Not since
Scarlett O’Hara has there been a heroine so memorable
in a novel so colourful. 18s *
COLLINS
“An early March publication.”
PUBLISHERS
write other than a sea-chanty to a sea-
chanty; and Dr. Jones’s excellent
choice of words gives poetry here her
best chance of helping her sister-art.
In “The Bunyip,” however, to words
by James Devaney,
Oh came you up by the place of
dread
(West red and a moon low down)
Where no winds blow and the birds
have fled
And the gum stands dead and its
arms gleam white
And the tribe sneak by with a
stealthy tread
In the ghostly light?
Brave Worralang went one grey
nightfall . . .
Dr. Jones may really have something:
it lives up to its direction
“misterioso.”
The young lady who so kindly made
these things clear was interested in the
writing. Without any key-signatures,
Dr. Jones evidently does exactly what
he pleases with notes. “Modish,” she
said; “very modish.”
One knew just enough to realise
that she was not referring to his taste
in clothes or what might generally be
described as his “chic.”
“He managed the music for the
Eucharistic Congress,” one said.
“I know,” the young lady said. “Dr.
Jones. Of Melbourne.”
Words from Penguins
Roget’s Thesaurus, in a Penguin
reprint at the extraordinarily low price
of five shillings, landed on my desk
just at the moment that I was reading
in the Melbourne “Age” that succes-
sive Lord Mayors of Melbourne have
consistently looked on their Town
Clerk, Mr. Wooton, as an expert in
“protocol.”
I had often seen the word before,
but usually, if I remember rightly, in
connection with matters of high
moment, like meetings of Big Threes
or Big Fours, and I couldn’t see the
exact connection with Mr. Wooton. So
I went to the “Thesaurus” to see if
that would help me. My quest didn’t
get me exactly what I wanted —accord-
ing to Mr. Roget protocol means order
of the day, agenda, memorandum, bill
of fare, base of operations, platform,
plank, contrivance, invention, expedi-
ent, receipt, nostrum, artifice, gadget,
intrigue, cabal, trick, plot, frame-up,
conspiracy, machination, and also
schematist, strategist, schemer, pro-
jector, author, builder, artist, promoter,
conspirator and intriguer; so I don’t
know now whether the Lord Mayors
meant that Mr. Wooton is an expert
artist, author, conspirator or cook.
The search did, however, make me
realise what a remarkable man Roget
was to write his “Thesaurus,” which
he started on at the age of 70, although
he had long previously compiled for
his own use a small notebook on the
same lines as his tremendous opus.
His son carried on the good work, and
his grandson is still at it, and in the
present volume has added a section on
Flying and Aircraft.
In the abridged edition issued by the
Penguin people the index of words
alone runs to 210 pages, while 365
pages are given to the meanings. Every-
thing is covered —abstract relations,
order, causation, space, form, matter,
intellect, the sympathetic, sentient and
moral powers and volition. Roget
reversed the dictionary method. A
dictionary proceeds from the words
to the ideas about them, but in the
“Thesaurus” the idea is given and the
task is then to find the word or words
which most aptly express it. Thus you
look up “nice” in the index and it takes
you to page 394, where you can learn
that “nice” means dainty, delectable,
toothsome, appetising, lickerish, deli-
cate, ambrosial and luscious, as well
as discriminative, exact, good, pleas-
ing, fastidious, honorable and so forth.
Since a writer proceeds from ideas
to verbal expressions it would naturally
be inferred that the “Thesaurus” would
be of great value to him; but is it?
One of the meanings of the word
“obscene” is given as “lickerish,”
which is also given as a synonym for
“nice.” Words are constantly chang-
ing their meaning in this way. I once
heard a young man in a tram say to
a scented young lady, “You smell like
a dirty big garden.” He obviously
meant to be complimentary and she
obviously took it as such. If, quoting
Shakspeare, he had told her she was
“sweeter than Juno’s eyes or Cytherea’s
breath” she might have thought he
was trying to insult her.
F.S.
The Other Side of the Square: Neil
Macmillan (Seeker and
Thirtyish, Veronica is married to
elderly Charles, who loves her and
whom she finds tolerable enough.
Laurence Green, twenty, is introduced
to them by Geoffrey, an elderly pansy
friend of the family: Laurence, a
gardener’s boy wanting to become a
secretary, is employed by Charles to
do some research for him. Laurence
and Veronica become lovers. The
lovers, providentially left alone in
Paris with Charles’s blessing, spend
the day walking about “often arm in
arm; it was a wonderful day for both
of them.” One way and another
Geoffrey gets in a bit of a tizzy over
this situation and stirs up enough
trouble to result in Charles, who, as
indicated, knows of the affair and
doesn’t seem to mind it, getting
murdered. Which is almost as hard
luck for Charles as the whole thing is
for the reader.
Latest Australian Books
Obtainable from all recognised booksellers
.j
HANDICRAFTS FOR JUNIOR CLASSES, by J. M. AliHURST. Drawing, Paper-cutting,
Modelling, Puppet-making for children. 9f x 71. 72 pages. 35 pages of illustrations.
Manilla cover. Georgian House Pty., Ltd., Melbourne. 8/6.
AUSTRALIAN POETRY 1954, Selected by RONALD McCVAlG. Anthology of the year’s
poetry. 7J x 5. 80 pages. Cloth binding. Angus and Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 10/6.
THINK OF STEPHEN, by RUTH BEDFORD. A Family Chronicle. 8f x of. 312 pages.
11 photographs and 1 diagram. Cloth binding. Angus and Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 25/-.
MURDER IS MY MISTRESS, by PETER CARTER BRO IF A. A “Lovely” mystery novel.
8 x 5%. 212 pages. Cloth binding. Associated General Publications Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 13/6.
ELEMENTARY COORDINATE GEOMETRY, by F. CHONG. A secondary school text-
book. 8f x oi- 128 pages. 45 illustrations. Cloth binding. Oxford University Press,
Melbourne. 12/6,
SELECT DOCUMENTS IN AUSTRALIAN HISTORY 1861-1900, Selected and edited
by C. M. H. CLARK, Professor of History, Canberra University College. 8f x 5f- 486 pages.
Cloth binding, Angus and Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 70/-.
THOMAS MITCHELL: Surveyor General and Explorer, by J. H. L. CUMPSTON.
A Biography. 8§ x 5J. 270 pages. 16 illustrations and 12 maps. Cloth binding. Oxford
LTniversity Press, Melbourne. 30/-.
THE IRISH AT EUREKA, by C. H. CURREY, M.A., T.L.D. A historical study.
S| x 5f. 112 pages. 11 pages of photographs. Cloth spine, paper boards. Angus and
Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 21/-.
AUSTRALIAN LABOUR LEADER: The Story of W. A. Holman and the Labour
Movement, by DR. H. V. EVATT. Abridged edition. 9J x 6J. 464 pages Frontispiece
and 14 line drawings. Cloth binding. Angus and Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 30/-.
BUSH MADE ROPES AND CORDS, by RICHARD GRAVES. Bushcraft Handbook Series.
84 x 5J. 32 pages. 37 illustrations. Manilla cover. Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 3/--
FIRE MAKING AND LIGHTING, by RICHARD GRAVES. Bushcraft Handbook Series.
8J x 5|, 32 pages. Illustrated. Manilla cover. Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney, 3/-.
SNARES AND TRAPS, by RICHARD GRAVES. Bushcraft Handbook Series. 81 x 5j. 40
pages. Illustrated. Manilla cover. Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 3/-.
TIME AND DIRECTIONS, by RICHARD GRAVES. Bushcraft Handbook Series. 8f x 5 b
32 pages. 28 illustrations. Manilla cover. Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 3/-.
TRACKS LURES AND TRAPPING, by RICHARD GRAVES. Bushcraft Handbook Series.
84’x 5j. 32 pages. 38 illustrations. Manilla cover. Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 3/-.
TRAVEL AND GEAR, by RICHARD GRAVES. Bushcraft Handbook Series 84 x 5J.
32 pages. Illustrated. Manilla cover, Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 3/-.
COWARD’-S KISS, by NOURMA IIANDFORD. Fiction. 7* x 5, 264 pages. Cloth binding.
Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 12/6.
HANG ON PLEASE, by EMILE MERCIER. Cartoons. 4f v x 7|. 128 pages. 115 line
drawings. Cloth spine, paper boards. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 5/-,
THE CHILDREN WENT TOO, by KATHLEEN MONYPENNY. A story of Australia’s
early days for young people. 8| x 5f. 176 pages. 12 line drawings in two colours 1/
in one colour by Irene Maher. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 12/6.
ORCHIDS OF AUSTRALIA, by W. II. NICHOLLS. Parts 1-3 bound in one volume.
14 x 101. 198 pages of text and 72 colour plates. Quarter morocco binding with canvas
boards, gilt top. Georgian House Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. £26. Parts available separate]!
unbound, £7/10/- each.
THE FIRST HUNDRED YEARS, by HELEN PALMER arid JESSIE MacLEOD. The story
of Australia’s early history. 8f x 5f. 102 pages. 36 illustrations. Cloth binding.
Longmans Green & Co. Ltd., Melbourne. 17/6.
r»TTW VESTERDAYS bv CYRIL PEARL. Australian life since 1853 in photographs.
11| x 8f. 168 pages. 293 photographs. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd,, Sydney. 30/-.
HOUSES INTERIORS AND PROJECTS, by HARRY SEIBLER. A pictorial record of the
“thortf work. 10 x 81. 176 pages. 300 illustrations. Canvas binding. Associated General
Publications Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 84/-.
, r ,,ii R«T WALKABOUT, by NORMAN B. TIN DALE and HAROLD A. LINDSAY.
Sr™£y 8f x 61. 144 pages. 17 illustrations. Cloth binding.
Longmans Green & Co. Ltd., Melbourne. 14/6.
JEMMY GREEN IN AUSTRALIA, by JAMES TUCKER. Edited with introduction and
notes by COLIN RODERICK, M.A., Ph.D. A comedy in three acts. 10 x 61. 1-0 pages.
2 line drawings. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney, 25/ .
The Australian Book Publishers Association
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 320
Across
I—Old man from a Victorian town
where W. M. Woodfull was horn,
his second initial standing for it.
4—Crowded forest already men-
tioned. (8)
8— The fag-end in the real dis-
claimer. (8)
9 Swiss province to conserve
supplies by weight in a Chinese
city. (6)
12 — A- globe bone, and a wool-pto-
ducer roams in secret. (5)
13— Malayan weapon is not without
risk. (4)
,14 —South half-century and a tenth
of the same European. (4)
16— Depressed howler. (4)
17— This makes a duck dye articles
from the English and the Italian.
(4)
h8 —Refuse from Jolson. (5)
21— pose held by a teller of
cautionary tales. (5)
22 Time to behead Japanese under-
graduates leaving Yale. (4)
23 Level off the pitch apartment.
(4)
25—Wellington or Ellington? (4)
27 A vice-regal personality is to
lose weight. (4)
28 — A pianissimo French article in-
tended as a bribe to teacher? (5)
30 — Fabric fury of an Australian
comedian. (5) , ...
31 — a new-hatched bird is snuggling
down. (8)
32 — From which Sydney gets its
water view. (8)
33 — Expediter of gear changes a
handful of chickens. (6)
Down
1 Fat earth on mill-offal is to do
a film actor. (6, 6)
2 Labor drops none and numbs no
bee shrubs. (9)
3 The best musical composition by
Timothy Zero. (6)
s—To praise up double. (4)
7 for hoisting a Sydney
draper over crook hill-climbers.
(434) . . ,
10 Van rat’s length conceals Britain s
trump in war. (5, 8)
11 —Victorian bowler to see the
supple Hillary character from
7-down. (4-7)
15—Timber case. (3)
19 — Stop a fieldsman after the
luncheon adjournment? (4-5)
20— Spring resort m Belgium. (3)
24—Lament from the shelf over a
fireplace fellow let up. (6)
26—Japanese centre in Tokyo but
yet not in Tokyo, either. (5)
29—This makes a very little liquid
obey gravity. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 319


•*'. V
l>Sii
ill
we
are
m
£
(;
ifcl//
T«.
Sw-*
■
w
&$
-
<•&
1
■>V»
V-5
*«».>-•
L=r
r v
s
SP
I
25
\
- <*^J
~mmk
tnuma******?*
sMdtlX
*w.^vw»r
There Are No
m t mWe ‘
-
rpnans
“It may surprise you to know,” remarked the Service
Manager, “that we keep a complete record of every machine
we sell—its serial number, who bought it, spares supplied,
service carried out, and so on.”
“In fact,” he said, a smile creasing his eyes, “we look after
it from the cradle to the grave.”
The ’phone jangled and he lifted the receiver.
“Hello—yes, Fred. . . who? Yes. . . okay. . . right. . . tell
him we’ll get somebody on the job this afternoon. What’s
that? Sure! Tell him to stop worrying!”
“Chap wants some service on a D 4,” he said, replacing the
receiver and reaching for a pen. “We’ll get a man out this
afternoon. A machine out of commission is a machine that’s
not earning its keep. Time means money to the farmer and
the contractor. Take that job down at the Snowy last
Friday. . .”
“One of the big contracting companies working down there
rang through at 5 p.m. wanting a replacement starter motor
for one of their Caterpillar D 8 Tractors. As I said before, a
non-working machine is a non-profit machine, so we arranged
for young Don Marshall—you’ve met Don. . . good service
man—to leave here that night, Friday, at 7.30 with the motor
in a 15-cwt. utility. He drove till 2 o’clock in the morning,
had a bit of snooze in the truck cabin and got going again at
6 a.m. Saturday. He was on the job at 11.15 a.m., getting
the new motor off with a fork-lift they had ready.”
“It was a Caterpillar D 8 Tractor, fitted with an 8A bulldozer
blade—a pretty useful piece of equipment. Naturally, they
wanted to get it into operation. Don Marshall set to and
installed the new motor (did a few other odd service jobs
while he was about it) and everybody was happy.”
He swivelled round in his chair and stabbed a finger at us.
“Don’t think,” he said, “that this is spectacular. It’s not.
We’re doing that sort of thing day in, day out. There’s a sort
of parental feeling about it. They’re our babies —and we
take care of our own.”
All over Australia, farmers, contractors and shire
engineers know the meaning of Caterpillar service. There
are no Caterpillar orphans. It doesn’t matter how old or
what type of Caterpillar machine it is: it has a direct line
right to the heart of its birthplace. Spare parts. . . genuine
spares made by the factory which made the original. . i
service, by men who know it intimately—these are the things
that count.
Caterpillar service is service.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Distributors:
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
<?LD.: HASTINGS DEERING (QLD.) PTY. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
TAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., ENFIELD.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DIESELS LTD., ALICE
SPRINGS.
T. GUINEA: HASTINGS DIESELS (NEW GUINEA)
LIMITED, LAE.
