

/
m
e
SWEET OR DRY
A'
The Bulletin
BOOKS OF “THE BULLETIN”-p4©e27
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3940
Wednesday, August 17, 1955
Price 9di.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
IS PATRIC'S STONE
AT DOWNPATRICK THE
SAINT'S RESTING PALACE?
Downpatrick, twenty-two miles
south of Belfast, near Strangford
Lough, is a place of great antiquity,
having many associations with St.
Patrick, who is reputed to have been
buried there. He died in the year 493
in the monastery at Saul, two miles north
of Downpatrick. In the foreground of
the accompanying illustration appears the
rough granite monolith, engraved with
the one word “Patric” which covers the
site of what is supposed to be the Saint’s
grave.
In 1177 the King of Ulster was
defeated by the Anglo-Norman knight
John de Courcy at Downpatrick. Soon
after this event de Courcy erected there a
Benedictine Abbey, a splendid edifice to
which the remains of St. Brigid and St.
Columba were brought with great pomp
and ceremony.
The subsequent history of Downpat-
rick was stormy, with battles and burn-
ings through the centuries so that little
survives of the original town. It was
sacked in 1316 by Edward Bruce and
the Cathedral was destroyed. After it
had been rebuilt it was again destroyed ;
this time by Lord Deputy Grey in 1538
—a misdeed which was largely respon-
sible for his execution three years later.
The cathedral did not quickly recover
from this desecration and it remained in
a completely ruined condition until 1790
when rebuilding was commenced and the
present fabric dates from that period.
It is built in the Perpendicular style and
constructed of local Silurian slate. All
that survives of the older church are the
elaborately carved stone capitals. Above
the large east window are the battered
effigies of St. Brigid, St. Columba and
St. Patrick.
No. 259: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


WIN PROMOTION
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
SIOTTS can train _ you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc,, that will SELL
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters
“^L^ rnings from m y writing total almost
£7O. (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £2OO ”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted bv 3DO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting. The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereaeh St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
*CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.ft. 1655) AGE...
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you— fiction, text boos,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only u suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
”BY REEF AND PALM"
Reading By Reef and Palm in Angus
and Robertson’s new reprint, it is a
pleasure to discover that Louis Becke
fully deserves his reputation in Aus-
tralian story-telling though exactly
what that reputation may be, or what
it should amount to, has, perhaps,
never quite been determined.
The South Seas trader who sailed
with Bully Hayes and knocked around
the islands for years, making and losing
money, being shipwrecked and not
being shipwrecked, before he came back
to Sydney to write for “The Bulletin,”
Becke was always a legendary
character; and his books, being mostly
out-of-print in recent years, have also
been somewhat legendary.
He does not read well in anthologies,
usually seeming thin and melodramatic
in the more substantial company in
which he is placed; and some of his
other collections of stories, discovered
in stray paperbacks, have always, to
this commentator, seemed pretty
scrappy.
His faults are obvious enough in “By
Reef and Palm.” Nowhere, when one
looks for a comparison with the two
masters of South Seas literature, is
there anything like the lordly prose of
Conrad or Stevenson’s more delicate
music; nowhere one glimpse of the
islands like that exquisite emerald
Stevenson cut for “The Ebb Tide”;
nowhere that profound brooding over
the mysteries of human conduct which
gives to Conrad’s studies of character
something of the monumental solidity
of figures in poetic tragedy.
There is uncertainty in the handling
of dialogue—Becke could seldom make
up his mind, when his Polynesians were
talking, whether to let them speak in
their own native tongue, in a literal
translation or in the pidgin which those
who had some English would naturally
use; and thus in the one paragraph of
“Long Charley’s Good Little Wife” you
get, in an awkward mixture, all three
varieties of language:—
“Who? Charley? Oh, he fine,
plenty copra. Tapa! my bowels are
filled with the sea —for one dollar!
Here ariki vaka (captain) and you
tuhi tuhi (supercargo),” said the
native, removing from his perforated
and pendulous ear-lobe a little roll of
leaf, “take this letter from the mean
one that giveth but a dollar for
facing such a galu (surf).”
More importantly, there are too
many cliches, especially of a senti-
mental and melodramatic kind; and,
with them, a general tendency to lapse
into the sentimental melodrama of
the “magazine” story particularly
when Becke had to cope with that
phenomenon always so alarming to
sailors, wanderers or bushmen, a nice
white woman. With native girls, who
fell enthusiastically in love with any-
body who would give them a roll of
cloth, Becke felt at ease; but the very
first paragraph of the first story, when
Challis the Doubter leaves the wife
whom he suspects of infidelity, “cursing
the love-madness which once possessed
him,” shows his uncertainty in describ-
ing white women, and in the conclud-
ing story, when the tubercular sister
has come to disturb the amours of
Brantley of Vahitahi, he tumbles as
sadly into sob-stuff as ever did Bret
Harte or O. Henry:—
The next day he sailed the
schooner into the lagoon, and Doris
pressed her lips on the dead fore-
head of the native girl, ere she was
laid to rest. Something that Doris
said to him as they walked away
from her grave filled Brantley’s
heart with a deadly fear, and as he
took her in his arms his voice
shook. “Don’t say that, Doris. It
cannot be so soon as that. I was
never a good man ; but surely God
will spare you to me a little longer.”
In a sense Becke may thank his
lucky stars (we all find a cliche useful
at times) that he was able to make
some sort of a lasting name in litera-
ture: those stars being, in particular,
the Southern Cross. The great world
of letters sees many a good second-
rate writer come up, amuse his genera-
tion and vanish. There is simply not
room in men’s minds to preserve them
all. But where, as we had in the past
in Australia, and still to a large extent
have today, and as Becke certainly had
in the islands, there is a new patch of
earth and a new pattern of life to be
described, it is possible to say a new
thing; and so, often with less intrinsic
merit than the crowded literature of
Europe demands, to write a book that
will live. It is the luck of the game
And if that is partly the reason why
Becke survives, a man who lived as
adventurously as he did in the islands
certainly earned his luck.
But there are, too, distinct literary
qualities in Becke’s stories to offset his
faults. If he could wrife uneasy
dialogue, so, too, when he had made up
his mind to translate literally from the
poetic native speech, could he write as
crisply, as musically and as amusingly
as one could wish:—
“His store was full of rich goods,
and he kept many servants, and at
night-time house was a blaze of
fire, for the young men and women
would go there .and sing and dance,
and he had many lovers amongst our
young girls. I, old -Lagisiva, who am
now fat and dull, Was one. Oho, he
was a man of plenty! Did a girl
but look out between her eyelashes
at a piece of print in the store, lo!
it was hers, even though it measured
twenty fathoms in length—and print
was a dollar a fathom in those days.
So every girl—even those from parts
far off—cast herself in his way, so
that he might notice her. And he
was generous to all alike —in that
alone was wisdom.”
If he was uneasy with white women
there can be no doubt, as has been
said, of the fidelity with which he por-
trayed the Polynesian beauties, so
warm-hearted and generous once the
small initial matter of bribery had
been disposed of, who form one half
of his principal theme—the other half
being, in general, the scoundrelism of
the whites who bought them. Even
when, as is often the case, he failed to
make a picture of the girls, so that the
reader could share the enchanting
spectacle he was seeing in his mind’s
eye, the character is usually vivid
enough for one to imagine the rest —
as in that brilliant little paragraph in
“Long Charley’s Good Little Wife”
when, apparently in a hurry to get on
with the story, Becke drops for once
into the style of Dickens’s Mr. Jingle:
Negotiations commenced anew.
Father willing to part, girl frightened
—commenced to cry. The astute
Charley brought out some new
trade. Tirau’s eye here displayed a
faint interest. Charley threw her,
with the air of a prince, a whole
piece of turkey twill, twelve yards—
value three dollars, cost about 2s. 3d.
Tirau put out a little hand and drew
it gingerly towards her. Tibakwa
gave us an atrocious wink. “She’s
cottoned!” exclaimed Charley.
If he could fall into melodrama he
could also, as in “A Truly Great Man,”
when Probyn, at the chief’s invitation,
shoots a native to prove his manhood,
most wonderfully abstain from melo-
drama—Hemingway never slew one of
his characters with more simplicity
than this:—
Slowly he loaded the musket, and
Tahori, seizing the bondman by his
arm, led him out to the open, and
stood by, club in hand, on the alert.
Probyn knew his reputation de-
pended on the shot. The ball passed
through the chest of Makoi. Then
four men picked up the body and
carried it into a house.
And finally, if, as an unexplainec
personage named Pembroke says in his
fine introduction, Becke restricted him-
self in this book too much to the one
theme of white men and native women,
there is at least that lively description
of the sharks attacking the canoes in
“Rangers of the Tia Kau” (when the
natives are crossing the stormy shal-
lows to consult their oracles on the
desirability of killing a missionary) to
prove that no scene of stirring salt-
water action was beyond his powers of
narration: —
Like ravening wolves the sharks
dashed upon their prey, and ere the
people had time to give more than a
despairing cry those hideous jaws
and gleaming cruel teeth had sealed
their fate. Maddened with fear, the
rest of the people threw everything
out of the six other canoes to lighten
them, and as the bundles of mats
and baskets of food touched the
water the sharks seized and bit, tore
and swallowed. Then, one by one,
every paddle was grabbed from the
hands of the pullers, and the canoes
broached-to and filled in that sea of
death —all save one, which was
carried by the force of the wind
away from the rest. In this were the
only survivors—two men.
One cannot, in the end, discover
from this reprint of “By Reef and
Palm” that Becke was a great writer.
The faults remain; and the collection,
in spite of “Rangers of Tia Kau,” is
too repetitive. But he did have these
admirable qualities; he did have the
instinctive understanding that a story
should be an interesting tale, not just
a fragment of glittering prose; and he
did set down, with the most pleasant
savor of palm-trees, surf, sunshine and
nut - brown maidens, his far - off,
romantic and wicked world of the
islands. When next his book is
reprinted the publishers might con-
sider omitting the prodigious rows of
dots which separate one part of the
stories from another. No doubt they
are Becke’s dots and might be con-
sidered sacrosanct; but they make the
stories seem far more scrappy and dis-
jointed than they really are.
Tonga and Its Queen
A book entitled Friendly Queen, by
Hector Macquarrie (Heinemann),
which does not introduce the lady until
page 129 of fewer than 200 pages, tends
to puzzle the reader who expects a
biography of Queen Salote of Tonga.
The puzzle is both increased and
explained by Mr. Macquarrie’s candid
foreword: although, as A.D.C. and
private-secretary to Governor Rodwell
of Fiji, he handled many dispatches
on Tongan affairs, and although he
spent some years afterwards as a
district-officer in the Pacific, he had to
rely for most of his facts about the
Queen and her daily life upon Mr. P. A.
Richardson, an English public servant
who was secretary to the Government
of Tonga from 1947 to 1950.
So the reader must be prepared for
a history-travelogue-biography, begin-
ning with Captain Cook, and then
going on to a long account of the
adventures of the ship’s boy, Mariner,
with the savage chief Finau, a great
story, but somewhat unnecessary for
those who have read Robert D.
Fitz Gerald’s long poem about it,
“Between Two Tides.” Then come the
missionaries.
And so to Queen Salote (Charlotte).
A Free Methodist bom, she was sent
to be educated, no doubt the British
Administration not protesting, to the
Diocesan High School of the Church
of England at Auckland, N.Z. And
so it afterwards fell out that, having
married Prince Tungi, and thus united
the spiritual and temporal dynasties of
Tonga, and having found him unwilling
to forsake the Wesleyan church and
attend the State church as her consort,
Queen Salote succeeded where the
heads of the two churches overseas had
failed, and in 1924 “effected a union”
—although, says Mr. Macquarrie,
“there remained a number of diehards
of the old Wesleyan Church.”
There follows a picture of a lady
of simple dignity: her palace a large
house where she lives with her son, the
Premier, and his family; her throne-
room no larger than “the drawing-
room of a moderately sized house,” the
chairs upholstered in red plush, the
atmosphere “distinctly Victorian.”
Nothing pleases Queen Salote more
than to retire to her country home on
the banks of the Lagoon, near Nuku-
alofa, an oval-shaped native dwelling
about 50ft. by 15ft., unpartitioned
except for a curtain around her
sleeping-place:—
Occasionally Queen Salote asks
European friends to lunch with her
here ; and now she largely abandons
formality and becomes a delightful,
friendly and charmingly restful
Polynesian.
Without exactly being a literary
masterpiece, it would be a handy book
to take on a visit to Tonga.
The Birdsville Track
When members of “The Bulletin’
staff write books, as most of them do
from time to time, it is always a little
awkward deciding by whom they shal
be reviewed.
Of course the professional reviewers
on the staff would always criticise each
other with the utmost integrity; but it
does become personally embarrassing
to be handing, as it were, bouquets
from one end of the office corridor to
the other, and still more embarrassing
perhaps, if one has to hand out bombs
Even when books are given to an
outside reviewer—-though that is no
doubt the ideal solution—something of
the same difficulty remains; and so,
without more ado, having set an excel-
lent precedent in inviting Ronald
McCuaig to review his own anthology
of “Australian Poetry” (which he
did with scrupulous generosity), I
think I shall invite myself to review my
own new book of short poems The
Birdsville Track (Angus and Robert-
son).
About half of “The Birdsville
Track,” then, consists of nature-poems
ranging, in the admirable words of the
blurb, “from the coast through the
wooded hills and trout-streams of the
Monaro, down to the Murrumbidgee
River at Gundagai.” For instance,
“The Snow-gum”:—
It is the snow-gum silently,
In noon’s blue and the silvery
Flowering of light on snow,
Performing its slow miracle
Where upon drift and icicle
Perfect lies its shadow.
The other half of the book, from
which it gets its title, is the “Birdsville
Track” sequence, about as hot in
climate as “The Snow-gum” and
“Brindabella” are cold. These —or at
any rate the first rough drafts of most
of them —were written when I was
bouncing along the Birdsville Track in
a battered old blitz-buggy with Monty
Scobie, the mailman (the famous Tom
Kruse, 0.8. E., being off the run at the
time, dam-sinking somewhere in the
desert); accompanied by an assorted
cargo of blacks, deadbeats and stores
for the cattle-stations; and seeing
mules, dingoes, brumbies, bicycle-
lizards, galahs, eaglehawks, native
stockmen and other such legendary
Australian fauna in country where, in
general:—
There was no water on that plain
But fire in stone and air
Licking the cattle-bones again
That dingoes had picked bare.
At which point, having indicated
what is in the book, this review should
cease. But I think I could add that
Angus and Robertson have made an
elegant and ingenious use on the title-
page of the pen-drawing which Norman
Lindsay did for the desert-sequence
when it was first published in “The
Bulletin.”
Douglas Stewart.


.
f
Ja v A ■' v
m
m
mm
HARD WEARING
utility in bright
Cotton gaberdine jumbucks, double seat and knee; won’t shrink. Fawn and
olive. To fit boys 4-5 years (cross-over straps), 36/-; 6-12 (belt loops), 39/-.
Boys’ and youths’ leather jackets of genuine cowhide. Two styles, fully check
lined. Zipper front and pocket.
Lumber style, chest 3032, at
£5/15/'; 34-36, £5/19/6. f style,
30-32, £6/10/-; 34-36, £6/15/- ea.
Wool felt hat, in black and red,
si?e 6f" to 6f", price 23/6 each
■
smart
that are hardwearing
A. Tartan cotton shirts,
zip front, short sleeves.
Fit 6-1? years. 18/9 ea.
B. Leather belts, attrac-
tive buckle. Grey, fawn,
fit 4-16 years. Price ?/-.
C. Tan, black elastic-side
boots, sewn soles. 7-10
49/6. 11-1 55/-. 2-4
59/6.
s:
'
mtißask
%s
i/v
*
II
TELEPHONE AND MAIL ORDERS, JUNIOR CENTRE. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. TELEPHONE T.O.P.S. FOR SERVICE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 17, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3940
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;)
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathans Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
AN ELECTION IS NEEDED
THE Federal Parliament meets on August 24 with
problems on its mind. Some members seem to be
preoccupied chiefly with the need for another rise
in Parliamentary salaries. A committee already
has been appointed to settle this question, which, it
can be taken for granted, will be the one real
non-party issue of the session.
The Fitzpatrick-Browne issue will have some
attention, since Mr. Eddie Ward was unfortunately
deprived of his say in the previous discussions, he
having been put out of the House a little in advance
of the time when the heroes of Bankstown were
“put in.”
These matters, however, will be the occasions
only of skirmishes unless the report of the War
Expenditure Committee should happen to be
tabled, an event which a lot of “Labor” men must
pray will never happen.
As the session settles down, it seems certain
that the three main issues will be restricted to the
Budget, the condition of “Labor” and the prospects
of an election, which should be defined by the
nature of the Budget—at least to some extent.
The Government has little choice in determin-
ing its financial policy. It can’t make bricks with-
out straw. And, despite a still-buoyant revenue,
rising costs, mounting defence-equipment needs, the
Government’s obligations in South-East Asia, the
wilting condition of overseas balances, the deadness
of the market for several Australian export products
and the claims of the civil service to pay-rises will
all tend to dampen-down the chances of large
concessions to taxpayers which might produce
further inflationary trends. The Government, how-
ever, would undoubtedly stretch a point if it felt
that it would help an election-campaign and provide
an insurance-premium against the return of a
“Labor” Government, while at the same time
meeting the obligation to give margins to
pensioners.
e That an election is necessary is obvious from
the whole political condition of Australian politics.
And that it is due is entirely the responsibility of
“Labor,” which left the country after 1949 in a
disintegrated political state. It was left in that
condition deliberately through Dr. Evatt’s Senate-
electipn “reform,” designed to hamstring the Liberal
Government which “Labor” more clearly than any-
body knew would be elected. And the palliative
produced by an amateur and adopted too hastily by
the present Government seems to have made
confusion worse confounded.
Under the present system no Administration can
look forward to a full term of uninterrupted gov-
ernment. All Governments govern by grace of
a knife-edge majority in an Upper House. It is
imperative that this condition of affairs should be
altered now—it should have been altered already—
and a concomitant to the restoration of the Senate
position to sanity is a new House of Representatives
election to bring the two Houses into line in period.
The whole Senate position requires earnest
consideration before anything is done, and it might
well be remitted to a Constitutional committee or
States’ convention (seeing that it is supposed to be
a States House) for a full discussion and
some agreement which will provide not only a
fairer election and a better-quality Senate but
which will deal with new-State machinery and make
it easier for regions which need separate Senate-
representation to act .without being faced, as now,
with insuperable barriers to the attainment of their
aims. To all intents and purposes the Senate in
N. S. Wales, Victoria and Queensland is elected by
the bloc votes of the metropolitan areas, and the
swing, minute as it is, which determines it is mainly
in those areas.
The present juncture is an excellent one for the
Government to get a mandate on this and other
questions, the main ones being the reform of
arbitration and the of more flexibility as
to hours and wages as between industries and
regions. There is an inflexibility in trade-union
control which is killing freedom of the individual
who has a will to work and producing his subordina-
tion to bureaucracies, official and otherwise, which
operate on the principle that the less work that is
done and the greater the cost of production, the
greater the prosperity of the country. This is the
essential union outlook, as fostered by the Com-
munist party, and in the course of nature accepted
by political “Labor” parties today.
Arbitration has become so much a political
issue that it could very well become the subject
of an election discussion. If it is not it may just as
well be allowed to die, since the unions regard it
merely as a means to forward the class-war, and,
when its operations do not serve their purposes,
disregard it, and treat its courts and its edicts with
contempt.
The “Labor” party is in poor shape to fight.
It can’t fight, indeed, except on a policy dictated
by the big Red unions—a policy of non-resistance
to Communism, banning of atom-defence and
support of a sectarian programme. If it attempts to
fight a campaign on any other basis it will find
itself, apart from being split, without enough funds
to campaign.
Its previous accumulations, built up during its
fat years of office, have been depleted during Dr.
Evatt’s battle for the Communists and at recurring
elections. It is, moreover, embarrassed by the
attitude of State Governments which are due to go
to the country. Federal “Labor” is prepared,
obviously, to throw them into the fire of sectarian
controversy to roast in order to save itself. And
they themselves are prepared to use Dr. Evatt’s
weapons in order to save their political lives, more
especially since the main ingredient of the outlook
of the Federal “Labor” movement on the prospects
at a Federal poll is hopeless despair. Even the
unthinking optimists of the party can see no hope
in the Federal sphere, though gerrymander in
N. S. Wales and Queensland makes Messrs. Cahill
and Gair feel that at State polls they have a good
chance of being returned, irrespective of what the
electors think of them. It would take a landslide
to remove the brazen Queensland Government.
Federal “Labor’s” chances may even be lower
than now after the Petrov commission’s report is
issued, since it must deal with the extent to which
the Department of External Affairs was Communist-
infiltrated during Dr. Evatt’s reign. And a sound
Budget, with reasonable concessions, and a Consti-
tutional programme which appeals to local patriot-
ism in the new-State areas should give Mr. Menzies
and his followers an opportunity to usher “Labor”
into the pages of past history and establish greater
permanence in government; establish something,
in fact, to form the basis of a long-term business
Government like that which has made Canada so
prosperous.
Boom-time Budget
AT this time of the year the Federal Treasurer can
always count on getting any amount of unsolicited
advice. The freedom and vigor with which it is
offered would suggest a very healthy and com-
mendable interest in the welfare of the nation if it
could be felt that the motives inspiring it were
purely disinterested and sprang from a real desire
to help the Treasurer in the task of preparing his
Budget. Not, of course, that Treasurer Fadden needs
any outside help. He is recorded as saying that,
although he is working long hours at the job and
losing weight over it, he is thoroughly enjoying it.
Many of those offering advice are probably enjoying
it, too, but the vast majority are making their
suggestions more in the hope of enjoying advantages
that will follow if their advice is accepted. For
every ounce of advice tendered out of sheer goodness
of heart there’s a cabin-trunkful motivated by
reasons less elevated.
The Treasurer has been variously advised to
reduce income-tax and sales-tax; to cut the payroll-
tax; to restore the initial allowance for depreciation
on plant; to emulate Britain’s Chancellor and
introduce a 20 per cent, investment-allowance; to
allow depreciation on buildings; to increase age-
and invalid-pensions and child-endowment. These
by no means exhaust the list, but they are the main
exhortations. Obviously the suggestions can’t all
be accepted. Equally obviously to accept some
makes it necessary to reject others.
It is a very simple matter to assume, as one
scribe has done, that the Budget will increase
age-pensions by ss. or 7s. 6d. and then to attack
the figure on the score of parsimony, describing the
presumed increase as an “insult to the pensioners.”
And it is equally simple to argue that because this
year’s Federal accounts finished up with a surplus
of £7O million and income-tax collections totalled
£533 million, a 10 per cent, cut in income-tax
should be well within the Treasurer’s powers. But
preparing a Federal Budget is not just a matter of
a Government’s making itself a good fellow with
the pensioners by raising the pension-rate or with
the general public by cutting taxes. Both actions, if
done without due thought, could, in different ways
and in differing degree, contribute to inflation and
defeat their own purpose.
No doubt the Budget will contain "something
for the pensioners”—the Government’s stated policy
is a progressive easing of the means-test—but
anyone who buoys-up the hopes of the pensioners
with expectations of a big increase is being
criminally unkind. Expenditure on social services
has risen steeply since the war. In 1938-39 it
accounted for 2.11 per cent, of the national income.
By 1949-50, the last year of the Chifley regime, it
absorbed 4.03 per cent., and by 1953-54 the figure
was 4.68 per cent. For the year just closed it was
higher again. This may not seem disproportionate,
but it represents about 20 per cent, of all Govern-
ment expenditure; if payments to the States and for
capital works are excluded the proportion is close
on 30 per cent. There is little room for an increase
in either the scale or the scope of social services
unless there is an increase in the national income—
and it must be a real increase, not merely a higher
nominal figure due to inflated currency.
Tax-cuts are subject to the same compulsion,
unless there is a drastic pruning of expenditure. The
£7O million Budget-surplus can’t be taken as a go-
ahead signal for tax-concessions. As the Treasurer
has remarked, this to some extent reflected
inflationary tendencies in the economy; the short-
fall in defence expenditure, for example, “was
almost entirely the result of excessive present-day
competition for manpower and materials, leading
to delays in defence-works and the procurement of
defence-supplies and to difficulties in recruiting for
the Services.” Again, on the revenue side, “higher
collections of income-tax, sales-tax and Customs
were in part a product of overfull employment,
high consumption-spending and a steep rise in
imports.”
These inflationary tendencies, which are not
peculiar to Australia, will be the Treasurer’s
biggest headache. In January of this year Britain,
following the traditional practice when threatened
with inflation, raised the bank-rate from 3 per cent,
to 3| per cent, and a month later raised it again to
4 per cent. In July the Chancellor asked British
banks to tighten-up their overdraft policy, and a
fortnight ago the Agricultural .Mortgage Corpora-
tion raised its mortgage-rate from 4\ per spnt. to
per cent. Similar steps have been taken in other
countries. West Germany and Belgium have
recently raised their bank-rates, and the U.S.
Federal Reserve Board has approved an increase in
the discount-rate in four important cities. Three
times this year the New Zealand Reserve Bank has
raised the minimum balances which it requires the
trading-banks to hold with it, with a view to curbing
lending-activities.
One of the biggest contributing factors to the
current wave of inflation is the huge increase in the
volume of hire-purchase business. Time-payment in
one or other of its forms is an almost indispensable
instrument of modern business, but most financial
authorities agree that it needs careful handling,
especially whep other forms of credit are subject to
controls. Britain and New Zealand have recently
imposed drastic restrictions on hire-purchase agree-
ments. In Britain the minimum deposit which may
be accepted on cars, radios, TV-sets and similar
items is now 33 l-3rd per cent. New Zealand has
gone even further. There the minimum deposit on
cars is 50 per cent, and the maximum period of
payment 18 months; on other goods the correspond-
ing figures are 15 per cent, and 24 months.
In Australia no steps comparable with those
taken by the United Kingdom and New Zealand
Governments have been attempted; the Federal
Government lacks the direct powers and the States
seem reluctant to use them. Before the Loan
Council meeting in June, Sir Arthur Fadden
indicated that he would like the Premiers to take
action to curb hire-purchase trading, but when
the matter was mentioned at the meeting it met with
a cold reception. The Federal Treasurer’s concern
can be readily understood. Hire-purchase on the
present scale of trading not only feeds inflation, but
the companies providing the finance for it are in
direct competition with the Government for the
investment-funds of the public.
The new Commonwealth loan offers a choice
of one-, 10- or 15-year terms, bearing interest at 3
and 4\ per cent. Debenture-stock now being issued
by acceptance-corporations offers 4£ per cent, on a
one-year term, rising to 6 \ or 8 per cent, for periods
up to 10 or 15 years; some houses pay the interest
quarterly. For several years the Treasurer has been
hard put to fill his loans, and has done so only by
keeping his total raisings down to a pretty accurate
appraisal of what the market can stand. Even so
he has had to finance all Commonwealth works out
of revenue, which has also had to be called upon to
assist with State requirements—part of the latest
surplus was used for this purpose.
Loan prospects for the coming year are no
better than they have been; import-restrictions,
although they will tend to ease the inflationary
pressure, will also cut downJ3ustoms receipts and.
to some degree, income-tax revenue; marginal
increases and public-service rises—now to be given
a greater impetus by Federal members’ own moves
for a salary rise—look like precluding any chance of
a reduction in expenditure.
Taking it all round, the likelihood of tax-cuts
being announced next session seems very remote.
Even with an election just round the comer it
seems probable that the Treasurer will proceed
with caution.


THE NEW CORNUCOPIA


PLAIN ENGLISH
Kilkenny in Australia
The preliminary skirmishing at the
N. S. Wales A.L.P. State Conference was
good, clean fun. Mr. Schmella, for the
Federal Executive, and Mr. Colbourne,
for the State Executive, each issued
badges for delegates. Each then declared
the other set of badges bogus. Eventually
a compromise which would have done
credit to Solomon at the moment of his
greatest glory was arrived at: the
N. S. Wales Executive issued their badges,
Mr. Schmella signed them.
The next move was the nomination of
two champions for president. This was
decided on as a crucial heat in the battle,
Dr. Evatt and Mr. Cahill having been
relegated to minor roles and allowed only
half-an-hour each to air their views at
the conference. It is anybody’s guess
whether this move was due to their own
supporters’ distaste for them or their own
personal discretion. However, Dr.
Lloyd Ross, who last bulked large on
the A.L.P. when he helped to foist the
“Hands Off Russia” resolution on the 1940
conference, was back as the champion of
the deadly enemies of Communism, the
industrial-groups, whose union-leader is
also an ex-Communist.
Nobody seems to get anywhere in the
organisational movement of the A.L.P.
in N. S. Wales unless he is Communist-
trained. Dr. Lloyd Ross’s position was
the more amusing because in Victoria in
his own union (the A.R.U.) recently the
Evatt-Communist united front bloc had
defeated his supporters. His opposition
for the N. S. Wales presidency in what
the daily press called “the hate-charged”
conference on Saturday was Mr. Fred
Campbell, of the Leftist Electrical Trades
Union.
At the outset of the conference a
preliminary bout was fought 'to test rela-
tive strengths. This took the shape of
an attempt by Mr. Dougherty, of the
A.W.U., to have two allegedly sectarian
industrial-group members of the A.L.P.
executive expelled Messrs. Rooney
(northern organiser) and Kane (assistant
State-secretary). The voting was 307-all.
Mr. Chamberlain, president of the
A.L.P. Federal Executive, in the chair,
declared the motion for the expulsion
lost.
The adjacent pubs and grounds were
then scoured, and there were four
recounts, in the final of which 623 out
of 647 possible votes were mustered —320
against expulsion.
After that “pandemonium broke
loose.” Mr. Shortell, leading the
industrial-group section, next moved that
the conference should instruct the incom-
ing State Executive not to interfere with
existing arrangements for preselection-
ballots for Federal seats at next elections.
Mr. Dougherty moved to give the
executive power to deal with irregularities
on the part of sitting Parliamentarians.
The Evatt forces received another slap
in the face —their plan to oust rebellious
members by omitting to hold ballots for
preselection was defeated.
At that stage the Evatt group made a
Herculean effort and were assisted in the
poll for president by the fact that there
were apparently a few delegates who
loved the industrial-groups more than
they loved Dr. Lloyd Ross. Mr. Fred
Campbell won by 329 votes to 295. The
industrial-groupers must have mourned
that they had not put up the conciliatory
Mr. Shortell, who had been acting as the
anti-Evatt leader. ,The fact that they won
the secretaryship for Colbourne showed
that the vote on the presidency had been
partly influenced by personalities. Mr.
Kane, the assistant-secretary, whose
expulsion had been defeated by a narrow
majority, was not even opposed in his
office.
The groupers secured the election of
the vice-presidents ; the Evatt section of
all the trustees, two of them Old Leftists.
They also have a majority of the dele-
gates to the Federal Conference. But the
groupers carried the balance-sheet and
annual report, one paragraph in which
read:
In July, 1955, Dr. Evatt was issued with
a ticket by the Mosman branch, but as
the rules provide that a member trans-
ferring from one branch to another must
do so by the issuance of an approved
clearance the action of the Mosman branch
does not conform to the rules. There-
fore the question of Dr. Evatt’s member-
ship has not been satisfactorily adjusted
in accordance with the rules.
In any other party but “Labor” such a
statement carried by 318 votes to 255
by an annual conference would be the
end of Dr. Evatt, but in the so-called
“Labor” party anything goes so long as
one can cling to the raft.
The executive of the N. S. Wales State
branch has yet to be declared elected. It
was said that the count would take
“several days.” But the result matters
very little. The clear facts that emerge
from the fcieeting, especially after the
speeches of Dr. Evatt and Mr. Cahill —
the one living in the past with his glorious
victory on the referendum on the
Communist-party Dissolution Bill, the
other concerned entirely with self-
preservation—are that little is left of
N. S. Wales “Labor” but a brawl.
The MeGrrrr Touch
Premier Cahill of N.S.W. showed the
MeGrrrr touch when he announced that
he was going to legislate to provide for
basic-wage increases in keeping with the
cost-of-living index. This irresponsible
and desperate politician had already
announced the reintroduction of “limited
price-control.” Mr. Cahill is a past-
master in his endeavors to make others
pay for his own sins and those of his
present and erstwhile political colleagues.
MeGrrrr precipitated the intro-
duction of the ill-timed 40-hour
week, and his flabby political rule, in
which he was the tool of the militant
unions, brought industrial deteri-
oration where it hurt the economy
most. Under his successor, Cahill,
any improvement has been the
result of the Federal Government’s
economic policy and the Menzies secret-
ballot legislation. In other respects gov-
ernment in N. S. Wales appears to have
become more politically corrupt with
each passing week.
The move to revive the inflationary
wage-price spiral (for that is what the
Cahill move amounts to, in spite of
attempts at “price-control”) is one of
the most wanton acts of political expedi-
ency ever seen in Australia. The wage-
earner who, during 1954-55, has lost the
equivalent of 7s. a week (in a basic wage
of over £l2) in the interests of economic
stability has lost it out of a prosperity-
loading of £1 a week that was granted in
1949 and has never been taken back, even
though the price of wool has fallen by
half since then. The rise of 7s. a week
in the cost of living since the basic wage
was pegged is largely the result of
increases in marginal rates of pay to
skilled workers. These wage- and salary-
earners have, for over 10 years, stood by
and watched the man on the basic wage
improve his economic position while their
own skill-margins have shrunk to half or
a third of what they used to be. The
present attempt to restore their margins
gets no co-operation from Mr. Cahill or
the militant unionists whom he represents.
All that the trade-union movement
needed to do in order to carry the cost
of increased margins was to work a little
harder. But not on your life. There is
no real mateship in the trade-union move-
ment any more than there is mateship
between Mr. Cahill and Dr. Evatt.
Trade-unionism is a racket today, and
Cahill and Evatt are boss-racketeers in
their respective “territories.” At any
rate they are head and front of the racket,
with a lot of propulsion from behind.
The pegging of the basic wage by the
Federal Arbitration Court was helping to
stabilise the Australian economy during
a difficult period—when export prices
were falling and competition overseas
was getting keener. “Pegging” certainly
was not the complete answer to Aus-
tralia’s cost problem, however. That
problem arose basically from inadequate
production from each employed person
during the working-week. But wage-
stability for a period would undoubtedly
have been a help towards the achieve-
ment of greater productive efficiency.
Premier Cahill is prepared to sacrifice
all that so he can make a grand political
gesture at a time when he is being hard-
by the boss of the Federal
“Labor” gang and when a new State
election is looming on the horizon.
It is all very dreadful and shameful.
The soulless disregard for the Australian
economy shown by both Evatt and Cahill
would have enraged the idealist and
humanitarian founders of -the Labor
party earlier this century. Today the
“Labor” party is run principally by
cynics and adventurers.
Parliamentary Salaries
With a unanimity not noticed among the
political parties since the last time they
asked for a salary-rise, Federal Parlia-
mentarians are seeking another. It is a
strange thing, but members who at
ordinary times don’t think their political
opponents are worth a bumper suddenly
discover on occasions like this that they
are, after all, hard-working fellows who
toil selflessly for the benefit of their
electorate a little misguided, perhaps.
but thoroughly worthy of the highest
rewards a grateful country can afford.
With becoming modesty, they are refrain-
ing from themselves naming the value
they think the community should place
on their services. Instead, an independent
committee is to do the assessing—a
businessman, an accountant and a retired
civil-servant. Surely no taxpayer can
cavil at that?
It could, of course, be suggested that
the chairman of the committee, Sir Frank
Richardson, being on the boards of
several big public companies, might be
accustomed to thinking in terms of big
money only, but this would be rather a
narrow view. Somewhere in his organisa-
tion there must be salaries in the low- or
medium-range. And no one can say
that he isn’t experienced in this type of
job. In 1952 he was a member of the
Nicholas committee which recommended
increasing Federal Parliamentary salaries
from £l5OO to £1750 and in addition the
granting of tax-free allowances ranging
from £4OO to £9OO a year. More recently
he performed a similar service for the
Victorian Parliament. Victorian mem-
bers were completely satisfied with the
way he carried out his task. There was
one slight flaw, though. The figure
recommended for the Premier made John
Cain blush so much that the honest fellow
insisted on reducing it.
Federal members can no doubt be
relied upon to follow that precedent if
they feel the committee is placing too
high a price on their heads.
Art for the Nation
By the terms of the Marshall Bequest
trustees of the N. S. Wales National
Gallery are gabled, on the recommenda-
tion of a committee drawn from the
Royal Art Society and the Society of
Artists, to buy each other’s paintings for
the nation.
The bequest consists of the income
from some land and six cottages at
Redfern, donated by his widow to com-
memorate a former trustee, Thomas
Marshall.
By means of this bequest the trustees
have been able to acquire from the
current Watercolor Institute exhibition in
Sydney Mr. Hal Missingham’s “Erosion
by the Creek” for 30 guineas and from
the N. S. Wales Society of Artists Mr.
Douglas Dundas’s “Australian Summer”
for 45 guineas. Mr. Missingham is presi-
dent of the Watercolor Institute and
director of the National Gallery; Mr.
Dundas is president of the Society of
Artists and a trustee of the National
Gallery.
Mr. Missingham’s watercolor is typical
of his by-no-means-untalented work;
Mr. Dundas’s oil is quite as pleasant as
any other bit of green grass and blue
hills he has painted over the years. But
how can anybody imagine that these two
paintings, amiable as they are, are out-
standing in their present company or
likely in the future to be counted among
the art-treasures of Australia?
-«►
Are the Red Peoples Bored?
“D.E.”: It is perhaps all to the good
that the rulers of Red Russia and one or
two of the satellites should have at length
found it expedient to go through the
motions of behaving like civilised beings.
The sudden transformation has had
humorous features, especially when
“Marshal” Bulganin, attended by
Khrushchev, Mikoyan, Molotov and
other grim-faced courtiers, entertained
“250 foreign guests,” diplomats, pressmen
and ladies on and about “his private lake”
(his “private lake”) and posed as geniality
itself. But the humor of it can make no
appeal to those mourning the dead
whose passenger-plane was savagely shot
down in Bulgaria, or to the thousands of
Austrians, victims first of Hitler and then
of his erstwhile confederate Stalin, per-
force liberated after ten years of cruel
captivity, or to the relatives of the 1100
Japanese still held as “war criminals,”
their crimes having allegedly been com-
mitted during the few days’ shadow-spar-
ring which constituted Stalin’s “war” on
their defeated nation. And no halt has
been called to the Communist conspiracy
against English-speaking nations, as the
plague of strikes in Britain and Australia
and the renewed effort to capture the
A.L.P. attest.
All the same, some important con-
sideration must have moved the Kremlin
to change its tune. What is it? Most pro-
bably fear. Fear of the Bomb, no doubt,
but not of the Bomb alone. Fear of
Chou’s China, grown too powerful in
too short a time and with leisure to brood
on the results of Stalinist as well as
Tsarist imperialism when it feels that
way inclined. And, yes, fear of the
peoples subjected to Kremlin tyranny,
who, in widely separated parts of the
Communist world, have strikingly failed
to respond to the accursed Marxian
doctrine of hate.
There was, for one thing, the wild
cheering at Warsaw when the Westralian
runner Shirley Strickland twice lowered
the colors of the girl champions from
the U.S.S.R., Hungary and Poland. It
is recorded that, although the young
woman was beaten in her third race,
enthusiastic Poles mobbed her; gave her
the ovation .of the gathering. More sig-
nificant still was the triumphal progress
in South Russia of a party of farmers
from the U.S.A. Farmers, worthy as
they are, are not figures of romance any-
where, but these American cockies were
received with the raptures accorded else-
where to crooners and film-stars. Perhaps
it was the inhabitants’ way of showing,
other channels of expression being denied
to them, their vast contempt for the mess
their masters have made of agriculture,
which has become too serious to be
concealed. Unexpected as these demon-
strations must have been to the Kremlin
—otherwise it would scarcely have
admitted the band of capitalists from the
Dollar Republic they suggest an
awkward resurgence of the peasant
spirit.
The truth may be that vast masses
of decent Russians, Poles, Balts, Czechs,
Hungarians, Rumanians and the rest are
growing weary of the Communist regime
and all its works. Weary of being spied
on and pushed around; of being drilled
and regimented—in civil and military
battalions alike; of being deprived of
the rights of ownership which even primi-
tive peoples possess; of having their
affairs decided for them by tyrants, big
and little; of being obliged to profess
adoration for the unholy trinity of Marx,
Lenin and Stalin ; of being ruthlessly for-
bidden to criticise, much less form
parties or indulge in nationalist aspira-
tions ; above all, of being held in a vast
prison-camp and condemned to gaze on
the ugly mugs of their jailers year in and
year out. Asked to account for the
downfall of a humdrum French dynasty,
a cynic said “France was bored.” If the
peoples behind the Iron Curtain are even
approaching the stage of being bored the
Kremlin had better look out.
Atomic Problems
The conference of atomic scientists at
Geneva includes 1200 delegates from 72
countries. It met under the auspices of
U.N.0., opened on August 8 and will
continue till August 20.
Australia is represented by members
of the Atomic Commission, Professors
Oliphant and Baxter and Major-General
Stevens. The proceedings include not
only discussions, but a technical atomic
exhibition, and are notable for the fact
that the representation is truly world-
wide, even if the aim of some people
present no doubt is to conceal what they
do or don’t know rather than to reveal
the full extent, or lack of extent, of their
progress.
The significance of the meeting lies in
the fact that it makes it clear that basic
techniques and theories which were
secrets only a few years ago are not now
secrets; that anybody with the materials
can now make some sort of a nuclear
bomb and build some sort of an atomic
power-plant.
It has also revealed how much Russia
owes to two phases of its dealings with
the world—its debt to spies and traitors
(the kind of people whom its leaders
profess to loathe), and the swiftness of
its processes under totalitarianism in con-
trast to the rate at which democracies
move in practical matters.
When the Kremlin Government finds
or steals a gbod thing it merely has to
issue an order to capitalise the find or
theft; when a democracy acquires know-
how there is delay due to the application
of Parliamentary principles and the need
to secure sanction before embarking on
large expenditures. It is the same way
with ordinary defence. The totalitarian
State can act freely and quickly and to
the extent of its own discretion to arm
ahead of those whom it would strike
down. The West lags behind because it
has to face public opinion, which is
usually influenced to some extent by
enemy propaganda.
The Russians already have an atomic
power-station, though they began years
behind the Americans and the British
(who are always a jump ahead of every-
body else in these matters) in solving the
basic problems of atomic usage. They
saved themselves the effort of preliminary
research; ungrateful scientists who had
{Continued on next page )


acquired British nationality, British pro-
tection and TSritish training at the expense
of their liberal-minded hosts merely stole
what the British knew for the benefit of
Moscow’s blood-soaked regime.
However, on the authority of Pro-
fessor Cockcroft, of the U.K., and Mr.
Lewis Strauss, chairman of the U.S.
Atomic Commission, it is clear that both
Britain and the United States are again
well ahead in the technical field in that
they have made considerable advances
toward harnessing for peace the tremen-
dous power of the hydrogen-bomb. Both
countries are offering to sell atomic-
energy plants to the world, and a number
of the delegates to the conference are to
be taken to the British Harwell establish-
ment this week.
The conference marks the advance of
the world into an era in which atomic
knowledge becomes an exchangeable
commonplace, leaving the man-in-the-
street to wonder exactly where the border-
line of secrecy now lies. The curtain
seems to have been completely lifted in
the therapeutic field and from the basic
nuclear field and from the industrial field
so far as uranium-fission is concerned/
Contemporaneously with the meeting,
Professor Teller, who was the —American,
at any rate —father of the hydrogen-
bomb, is prophesying the possibility of
interplanetary travel for those in their
childhood in the present decade and con-
trol of world-weather by nuclear means—
that is a problem affected vitally by the
researches of Professor Messel and his
team at Sydney University. The U.S. Air
Force has brought the creation of
artificial earth-satellites to the point at
which the President has appointed the
senior expert on the subject to his Cabinet
as Air Force Secretary.
In all the circumstances there seems to
be a sound chance for agreement, in the
interests of general self-preservation, on
the banning of the use of atomic bombs,
fission and fusion. But agreements and
the keeping of agreements are two differ-
ent matters. The U.S.S.R. has made a
lot of agreements in the past few years
and broken them readily when chance
has offered. It is a principle of Com-
munism that agreements are meant to be
broken when the breach serves the cause.
And with the world seeded with atomic
plants, it seems that the age is quickly
coming when atomic agreements will be
just as easy to ignore if opportunity for
world conquest occurs as were, say, the
agreements about Manchuria and other
arrangements made at Yalta,
POLITICAL POINTS
At the A.L.P. conference both sides
wanted unity, but it seems they wanted
different brands of unity.
• •
By the time the two-day struggle at
Sydney Town Hall was over Big Tom
Dougherty was reduced to little tom and
the Doc. looked more like a probationer-
nurse.
• •
Queensland’s Parliament reopened on
August 9, S.A.’s yesterday and N.S.W.’s
is to open next Wednesday. For all
three legislatures it will be the last
session before the election. Westralia is
also due to consult the. electors early next
year.
• •
First price-cuts announced under re-
vived controls in Sydney were on hair-
cuts, boot-repairs and cigarettes. Popu-
lar enough, no doubt, but unlikely to
have any noticeable effect on the cost
of living.
• •
There’s to be a public inquiry into the
Blacktown land-sales allegations; it will
be conducted by C. J. Barnett, of the
Local Government Department, who will
be invested with the powers of a royal
commissioner. Questions he will be
asked to consider are: (1) What were
the circumstances which led to the release
of the land from the green-belt? (2)
Should it have been retained in the green-
belt? (3) Was the method employed in
releasing the land proper? (4) Was the
shire clerk a party to any improper prac-
tice in connection with the release? L.G.
Minister Renshaw seems to have made up
his mind on the answers already.
• •
Melbourne’s P.D. cars are to be
powder-blue in future. Its trains look like
being red.
- • •
Menzies plans to go ahead soon with
his all-party review of the Constitution.
With another splinter-party in prospect
from the ranks of “Labor” he’ll find it
difficult to get real representation from
the, Opposition. He says he hopes to
have talks with the Doc. on the subject.
Isn’t that assuming that the Doc.’s
preoccupations will have ceased when
Parliament resumes next week?
• •
/
Releasing a transport-costs survey
which showed that Australia is spending
about a third of the national income on
moving things from one place to another
Transport Minister McLeay said it wasn’t
a statement of policy by Federal or State
Governments. But what is the policy
on transport?
• •
While the A.LP. love-parade was in
progress at Sydney Town Hall on Satur-
day the Milk Exhibition was in full flow
in the basement. What’s the connection?
Well, Milk Board chairman J. A. Fergu-
son was A.L.P.. president until he saw .the
writing on the wall and took on the job
of providing Sydney with dearer milk.
• •
Frank Forde took his seat in the
Queensland Assembly last week as mem-
ber for Flinders, which he won at a by-
election in March. In an earlier Assembly
incarnation he represented the Rock-
hampton electorate; it is 33 years since
he left it to take over the Capricomia
seat in the Federal Parliament.
• «
Our Broadcasting Control Board’s ban
on radio-electioneering in the 72 hours
before polling-day seems mild beside a
clamp recently imposed on British radio
and TV. Commentators are forbidden to
discuss matters of public interest for a
fortnight before they are discussed in
Parliament. Besides being a retrograde
interference with freedom of speech the
ban seems silly and futile. Newspapers,
public-meetings and street-comer orators
are at liberty to say what they please.
Why put a muzzle on the wave-lengths?
..
• •
Westralian M.H.R.s Burke and Beaz-
ley, who were among the delegates who
boycotted the Hobart conference and
were subsequently “censured” by the
A.L.P. executive, still have the backing
of their electoral councils. Burke was
re-endorsed for Perth by a 5-2 majority
and Beazley is not expected to be
troubled in Fremantle.
• •
Premier Bolte has reiterated that his
Government doesn’t intend to bring back
price-control. He recognises that this
may put Victorians at a slight disadvan-
tage temporarily but expects his State
to reap the benefit in the long run. He
told the L.C.P. conference “We are going
to prove to Australia that the State with
the fewest controls will make the most
progress.” In particular he hopes to
attract to Victoria a bigger proportion of
oversea capital than it has received in
recent years.
• •
Surely the most curious disclaimer of
gerrymandering ever made was recorded
by Brosnan, “Labor” M.L.A. for Forti-
tude Valley in the Queensland Parliament,
in moving the Address-in-Reply in the
Brisbane talking-shop last week. To an
interjector who implied that the electoral
zones had been rigged he replied that
there were 48 “Labor” members in the
House this colleagues corrected this to
49) and that that showed the people were
satisfied with the boundaries. Gair
apparently reckons they are going to be
A.L.P. WEATHER MAP
[The storm-centre previously located at Hobart has moved to Sydney.]
more satisfied still. He interjected
“there’ll be 57 next year.” Or does he
contemplate another redistribution?
• «
Something’s drastically wrong with the
N. S. Wales R.S.P.C.A. The dogs are
barking it . . .
• •
Taking for granted that the £300,000
loan-money it wanted to finance the first
year’s work on the projected Domain
parking-station would be forthcoming for
the mere asking, Sydney City Council
went ahead with preliminary work. Now
there’s no dough. Lord Mayor Hills
reports that the State Government won’t
play, and Cahill blames Menzies for
cutting down his loan-schedule.
Hills says the work will go on and
“we will have to get the money from
somewhere else.” There’s a suggestion
that the council might sell some of its
pubs. sAn alternative might be to take
the hat round among the street-stall
licensees.
• •
A big jump in the rate for third-party
insurance gives Melbourne motorists the
highest premium in Australia. Private
cars will pay £9 2s. compared with
Sydney, £7 14s. 6d.; Adelaide, £5;
Perth, £2 165.; Brisbane, £2 10s.;
Hobart £l. Business vehicles pay higher
rates in all States except Westralia;
country owners a lower rate in N. S.
Wales, Victoria and S.A.
• •
“Stromlo”: It’s amusing to see the
Doc. quoting alleged deathbed remarks
by Ben Chifley about “the smell of the
faggots burning.” Wonder if he knows
what Chifley predicted about him ?
During last year’s rumpus a leading
“Labor” man told several friends in
King’s Hall, Canberra, that Chif had
been alarmed at the possibility of Evatt
ever trying to lead the party, and just
before his death had remarked earnestly,
“Bert’ll never be Prime Minister.”
• •
New Zealand M.P.s are to a
salary-rise of £2OO, on the recommenda-
tion of a royal commission. This will
bring their screw to £NZIIOO, equivalent
to £A1375. Our Federal M.P.s already
get £1750 plus tax-free allowances rang-
ing from £4OO to £9OO, yet they’re holding
out their .hands for more.
• •
New life has been given to the cattle-
indiistry on Cape York Peninsula in the
last two seasons by using landing-barge
transport to Cairns instead of droving
through some of the most difficult country
in Australia. Picking up stock at Cook-
town and three points further north the
barge Wewak has lifted 9000 head of
cattle at the rate of 150 a trip. The
service is being extended to, Morning-
ton Island in the Gulf of Carpentaria.
The barge will take the cattle from
Mornington to Coleman River on the
Gulf side of the Peninsula; they will be
walked to Marina Plains on the east coast
and resume their sea-trip to Cairns. Local
name for the service is “Sea Beef.”
• •
Britain’s earnings from the tourist-
trade last year totalled £137 million
sterling, including £5O million from the
dollar-area. U.S. tourists totalled 203,000
and Commonwealth visitors 202,000.
Europe supplied most of the remainder,
and the full figure was 901,000, an in-
crease of 10 per cent, on Coronation year.
• •
Russia and America have indicated
their interest in doing research-work
during the International Geophysical
Year (1957-58) in the Knox Coast region
of Australian Antarctic Territory.
External Affairs Minister Casey says
Australia is also interested in the area
(although “little is known about this
territory”), and that we will welcome the
co-operation of other Governments. A
case of the open door, Richard?
• •
How the National Bank views the
current inflationary trend:
Rising prices are to be deplored, but they
do tend to bring about their own end by
inducing a reduction in demand. Advocates .
of “controlled prices” have yet to explain
how their proposals would produce such a
reduction. *
They probably won’t try, being interested
in short-term palliatives rather than long-
term cures.
• •
Entry into America will become
simpler for Australian visitors if an agree-
ment now being considered by U.S. and
Australian Governments becomes fact.
The agreement, which is similar to those
already made by Washington with Canada
and Britain, will mean that the intending
traveller will merely have to establish
that he does not propose to remain per-
manently in America. Once his passport
is stamped to this effect no further for-
malities will be required. America made
the approach, but the agreement, if signed,
will work both ways.
“In the ACT”: What is Russia up to,
and why? First of all, the Russians
accept the whole 50 press-accreditations
offered to the Soviet for the Olympics,
although Commonwealth Security and
everyone else must be' wondering how
many Antonovs will be among the
journalists; secondly, they cancel the
projected sale of embassy furniture just
as the catalogue is being prepared. If
this means they wish to resume diplo-
matic relations, irrespective of what the
Petrov report discloses, it would be inter-
esting to know why. Is it a sign of a
real easing of world tension? Or is it
that they need our wool again? There
seems no doubt that Russia will be flat-
out to top the score at the Olympic
Games, as a matter of world “face” and
prestige, ignoring (like most other coun-
tries) the fact that the contests are
expected to illustrate the benefits and
joys of endeavor rather than the thrills
of success.
• •
In a true spirit of Australian explora-
tion, Councillor J. R. Golightly and
aldermen of the Queenscliff council (Vic.)
announced a trip across the Rip to Port-
sea in a fishing vessel, to demonstrate the
possibility of a ferry-service to connect
the two horns of Port Phillip. The trip
was expected to take fifteen minutes. On
the day appointed a 60-mile gale was
blowing and distress-signals were flying
from the Leeuwin to Gabo. A course was
steered round the Bay—a road-journey
of three or four hours.
• •
Australia’s dollar-deficit for the year
1954-55 was million, the biggest ever,
and more than 2\ times that of the previ-
ous year. Sterling-area trade was also
badly in deficit, and although there was
a surplus on transactions with non-dollar-
non-sterling countries it was far smaller
than the 1953-4 surplus. The overall
foreign-trade deficit for the year was
£6B million.


Society
"AND IT’S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
/^.AD! It wouldn’t have done in the
old days— not in London’s Savoy
Hotel. But Warrnambool motor-dealer
Frank Callaghan, who attended the
Austin golden-jubilee celebration, saw
it happen and shared in the making of
history. At a farewell informal dinner
British Motor Corporation chairman Sir
Leonard Lord startled his guests by ex-
claiming: “It’s so ruddy hot I’m going
to take off my coat!” Nuffield took the
cue and a couple of hundred oversea
dealers dined in their shirt-sleeves. —
“R.G.”
“Nunk”: The great day of my year
has come: I am about to go uptown to
buy a pair of socks. I shall then return
to the office, proceed to the Gents’, and
change into the new pair of socks. Then
I shall go uptown again to buy a pair of
shoes.
♦> *
“Sister Gardenia”: During one of the
World War II city-marches our party of
nurses from Heidelberg military hospital
was stepping out bravely along Swanston-
street, but the step faltered a bit when
a loud male voice was heard to say:
“Gawd! They didn’t pick them for their
looks, did they?”
♦> ♦♦♦ ❖
“Sixtoes”: In an N.Z.-wide campaign
against one-for-the-road types every
available traffic-officer is out along the
main arteries from about 5 p.m., with
special concentration after six, when the
pubs close. They step it up on Fridays
and late on Saturdays, going on till the
small hours. The drill is to stop each
car and demand driving-licence and war-
rant of fitness. This places the traffic-
officer in the best position to take a deep
sniff of the driver, which may lead to
confiscation of keys, arrest, medical
inspection, prosecution, fine, imprison-
ment, or loss of licence. There’s not
much humor in all this, but rumor has
it that a new, young, fresh-complexioned
officer put his face inside in the execution
of his duty, got a bit too close in his
zeal and was rewarded with a resounding
kiss from the suspect, a male one at that.
❖ *X* ♦>
“Zorok”: An American stripper, Diane
Ross, was charged with cruelty to a
monkey of hers, Squeaky, which disrobes
her in her act; she was acquitted, and the
show goes on. The press is debating
whether monkeys should do the work of
some humans in industry. Seems to be
no valid objection ; some might be all
for it. Surely any number of wage-plugs
would willingly give up their own jobs
to swap with, say, Squeaky.
❖ ♦>
“D.J.G.”: An English psychiatrist has
gravely pronounced in the British journal
“The Practitioner” that nearly every
mother secretly wants her children’s
marriages to break-up. My better-half,
who hopes to be a mother-in-law herself
some day, scornfully observed that it was
a psychiatric trick to attribute the fail-
ings of a small minority to the majority
of womenkind. All / said was: “Come
to think of it, though, it’s curious that,
though there’s always jokes against
mothers-in-law, you never hear fathers-
in-law held up to ridicule.” Then the
heat was really turned on.
❖ ♦> +>
“Kune”: That Australian who has
made a special trip to England to drop a
£ 1-note in the London street where 27
years ago he picked up a much-needed
John Bradbury, which set him on the
way to prosperity, overlooked something
—decreased value. He should have
dropped a fiver!
“Viper”: Free face-lifts may soon be
incorporated in the U.K. health-scheme.
But no face will be lifted for frivolous
reasons. To be eligible ladies must need
to preserve their looks to preserve their
jobs. Very shady vote-catching indeed —
main candidates would seem to be those
ladies who follow the oldest profession in
the world.
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.P.G.”: Another place where money
was literally hanging-around in full view
of the public was a Ballarat pub. A Gee-
long visitor began sticking coins on the
underside of a shelf above a bar-counter
with beer-froth. In one section, nick-
named “millionaires’ corner,” the shelf
“Now you can whistle a duet!”
looked like an upside-down view of a
field of mushrooms, every available space
holding a coin ranging from florins to
the humble ha’penny. Each time the
shelf was filled the proprietor had the
coins scraped off and given to charity.
<♦ ❖ ❖
“Brick E.”: Yes, a cosy idea, that fire-
place with a pivot-back which permits
the fire to be transferred to the bedroom
behind (B. 20/7/’55), but not an original
one. My Dad described the type to us
when we were kids, 30-odd years ago.
He’d seen ’em in the Old Country—and
he left there in 1911. Who designed the
first one built seemed to be in doubt, but
the original suggestion came from —you’d
hardly guess—King Edward VII.
❖ ❖ *>
“Metralia”: Asked waitress for fried
whole flounder. Its unfishy outlines
shrouded in batter, fried something-or-
other at last arrived. Looked like octo-
pus, tasted like cooked primeval slime.
Thinking about other restaurant-enigmas
in batter—e.g., chicken-Maryland—l re-
membered an entry in Captain Cook’s
Endeavour logbook: “To each man gave
a ration of fresh vulture, raw, to cook
as he pleased.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“X.S.”: Bad case of sacrilege in Mel-
bourne. A groundsman at Fawkner Park
looked across the playing-field and
observed that two goalposts had van-
ished. At the same time he heard a
sound of chopping and, looking over a
fence into a near-by backyard, saw two
men converting the goal into lengths
suitable for a kitchen-stove. A few
minutes later a police-patrol arrested the
blasphemers.
*i* ❖ ❖
“Brick E.”: Mate of mine had finished
building his house except for painting the
interior walls. With the wife away for
the weekend, he was slapping the paint
on merrily when wife’s sister dropped in.
“Oh,” she said in obvious disappointment,
“what a pity Lucy changed her color-
scheme —she told me she was going to get
cream for this room.” With a sinking
heart and the recollection that the
R.A.A.F. had rejected him on the grounds
of partial color-blindness, the painting hus-
band waited until sister-in-law was gone,
then read the label on the tin. Pale pink.
It was supposed to be, and to his eye
was, cream. He washed the pink stuff off
and, working to the label on the right tin,
painted the room cream. In the afternoon
sister-in-law called in again ; she departed
a very worried woman, convinced that
she must suffer from some spasmodic
form of color-blindness.
“Gravelsnatcher”: The best and
longest-lasting fillings I’ve had were done
by an Army dentist who filled six cavi-
ties in 20 minutes, and, though he wasn’t
trying particularly, he didn’t hurt. Now,
when any of my remaining molars want
drilling, the bloke with the bit reckons a
five-minute session’s long enough—if
there’s more than one filling I have to
return at his convenience. This is in-
variably a confounded nuisance to me,
and as I have to waste a couple of hours
each time just to sit in the chair for five
minutes it can’t be an economical propo-
sition for the country. I could stand a
dozen fillings at a sitting, and if I had
them I suppose I could stand being
charged the £lB I’d have to pay, anyway
It would come cheaper to me in time
saved. But I suppose even a dentist
wouldn’t have the hide to charge me
that much for less than an hour’s work.
He does now, of course, but spread over
12 visits it looks better.
“Ikew”: She was young—about 26
good-looking, wealthy and the mother of
three. She lived in an exquisite 16th-
century farmhouse so cleverly modern-
ised that it was unspoilt. There was
also a flat in town. She told me, working
for her, that she had been married twice,
though there was no husband in evidence.
In the mail one day was a letter for hus-
band No. 1, and this I re-addressed.
When one came a little later for husband
No. 2, I asked for his address and was
told it was the same as for No. 1. I
must have looked a bit startled, as my
employer said cheerfully: “Oh, didn’t
I tell you? They share a flat. They’re
great friends. Knew each other long
.before they knew me.”
4s)
“Z.Y.X.”: I’d lay 1000 Saturday
“S. M. Heralds” to one cigarette-paper
that the CJ. did not frame the sentence
as summarised by the old lady, 23/ 7/.’55:
The Chief Justice of the High Court, Sir
Owen Dixon, said that with one trifling excep-
tion High Court judges, because of special
circumstances, maintained they ought not to be
royal commissioners.
* ❖ ❖
David T. Picton, Penygraig, Tony-
pandy, Rhondda, Wales: An item in
London “Daily Telegraph” of July 14,
about the “last cavalry charge” of the
Royal Bucks Hussars at El Mughar,
Palestine, in 1917, and a picture entitled
“The Swan-song of the Sword,” brought
memories of the days when I served with
the Royal Engineers and attached to
several regiments of the daredevil Aus-
tralian Light Horsemen. If my memory
serves me rightly Light Horsemen had
not at that time been issued with swords.
I wonder if some of my old friends are
still with us who, upon hearing a gun
firing on the Shallal Wadi border, broke
their horselines —some unarmed, with
horses unsaddled, hurrying to be in the
hunt —and brought the gun in? Happy
days with the Diggers—square-dinkum
lads without fear, they were. Do they
recall their old Taffy who acted as Gunga
Din to their horses, who kept the troughs
full, Camel Corps, too? What have they
to say of “The Swan-song of the Sword”?
Hi! Does Alexander George Mackay
still barber in Sydney? I fear not.
ODE TO THE WEST WIND
“Cold, gusty, windy weather caused gloom,
misery, crankiness and irritability, Sydney
doctors said.” — “S. M. Herald.”
O wild West Wind, thou breath of
Shelley’s wish
To be thy lyre and thee, impetuous
one,
Driving before thee, like a son of a
Bysshe,
Scraps of old “Herald,” “Telegraph,” and
“Sun,”
Those poor, dead leaves, along the
avenue;
Who chariotest in dust-storms, by the ton,
The winged germs of the late-winter ’flu
To pestilence-stricken multitudes of
lives
In their dark wintry beds; thou who
Vexest the husbands and perplexest wives
With truths that neither ever thought
to hear
From either, cutting, like thy blasts, as
knives:
Wild Spirit, which art moving every-
where,
Don’t go away; I want to bash your ear!
Thou whose cold heart alone is to be
thanked
For lovers’ tiffs and virulent traffic-
cops,
Cats cuffed, dogs kicked and chafed
children spanked,
Refusing to go messages to shops;
O thou who smashest motor-
equipages
By getting their chill’d drivers on the
hops
And puttest women forward to their
ages ■\
By deepening divisions on their dials
And drying-up their oily camouflages:
Scatter these icy ashes from my vials
Of chattering wrath to listening
mankind —
I must renew, in spite of all denials
And trumpets of thy prophecy, O Wind,
My Winter combs., if Spring is far
behind J
N.S.W.
SHWILLIAM SHELLEY.


'T'HE extraordinarily high prices charged
1 for hearing-aids still continue. It
is especially hard on old-age pensioners,
who form a large part of the users. To
many these aids are as necessary as spec-
tacles are to other people. One wearer
I know took his instrument for repair
recently and was charged 10s. 6d. for
looking at it and then quoted £9 for the
job. What an uproar there would be if
a watchmaker charged a fee for telling
us what was wrong with our timepieces
and then charged extra for the work!
“Brpok S.”
*z*
“Hand Out”: To mark the issue of 15
new Singapore stamps on September 4
Qantas will produce a special three-color
souvenir-cover to be flown between
Singapore and Sydney. The covers,
measuring 9|in. by s|in., will be post-
marked on the first day of issue of the
new stamps and cost £1 10s. 6d. for the
full set. A single cover bearing the new
50-cent stamp depicting an ocean liner in
deep blue and black will cost 2s. 6d. All
will be addressed to the Qantas sales-
manager in Sydney and will be distributed
by the airline after the flight.
+J+ ♦*+
“Nobs”: Brooding over N.S.W. Rail-
way Commissioner Winsor’s statement
“I think it Was a wise decision to stop seeing each other, Evelyn .”
that automatic doors will be fitted on one
electric-train for experimental purposes,
I’ve been hoping that it’s not mine. Get
sort of sentimental over the old “close-
if-you-can.” First there’s the art of taking
twelve-step leaps, side-stepping platform-
pedestrians, brushing-off the assailant
with the white flag, and diving for a
rail in the last carriage. “Parcels” Pete
used to be our champ; but he recently
tripped on the eighth-last step, fumbled
his parcels, hurtled head-first into the out-
stretehed white flag and missed the train.
Charcoal is the present creme de la
creme. He’s unorthodox, but artistic—a
single-stepper who cuts his momentum
with a delicate carriageway-pirouette.
A wonderful art —and spectacular!
Then, too, there’s the lady who bids me
open the door seconds before the train is
to depart. I am then, out of courtesy,
obliged to draw her and her six string-
bags into the carriage, only to find that
she is on the wrong train and so am
obliged to set her and accompanying
cargo safely down from the now-speed-
ing train . . . What honor or chivalry
will there be now in being “guardian of
the door”?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Coogee”: “The Green Hat” wasn’t
Judith Anderson’s only flop (B. 3/8/’55).
“Cobra,” with which she opened her
Sydney season, was not too successful,
either. After that, she appeared with
Leon Gordon (the “White Cargo” man)
in the comedy “Tea for Three.” This
would have attracted large audiences, but
it had already been performed here with
great success by Marie Tempest and
Graham Browne. Can’t imagine “Medea”
being too popular with Sydney audiences
—still, it should be another artistic
success for Judith Anderson. Didn’t
Dame Sybil Thorndike play it here once?
❖ ❖ ❖
“An Chuidh”: Fancy that “X.N.0.”
(B. 27/7/’55) is a little off the beam in his
references to the arch-pirate Avery (not
Every). Avery, far from retiring to
Ireland to die full of years and riches,
died in great poverty in Barnstaple in his
native Devonshire. John Knill, collector
of Customs at St. Ives, in Cornwall, with
two others made an exhaustive treasure-
search around the Lizard in 1779, but
without success. On hearing that Avery
died in poverty within a short distance of
the supposed treasure, the search was
abandoned in 1782. Doubt though that
Avery was much worse than his fellow-
countrymen.
♦> ♦>
“Not Least”: The very raw bank-
junior could not find a fiver “over” to
balance the books. The accountant
promptly selected a cheque for five
pounds and tore it up. The staff con-
sidered the loss of stamp-duty on the
faked cheque well worth the look of
bewilderment on the lad’s face. It was
very busy the next afternoon, and late
when the lad admitted he was £1 Bs. 6d.
over. With some satisfaction he pointed
to the remains of five cheques of £lO and
two of £5 in the w.p.b., representing a
reduction of the original £6l Bs. 6d. “out.”
■•jt • %
“Warrna”: Liked the crack on sub-
committees by Frank Cremean, Victorian
Hospital and Charities Commission
administrator: “A sub-committee is a
panel of the unfit, appointed by the un-
willing to do the unnecessary.”
■»£+
“J.M.”: In his column (B. 13/7/’55)
H. Hastings Deering named Fort
McGeorge as the redoubt bombarded at
the time that Francis Scott Key wrote
“The Star Spangled Banner.” Should
have read Fort McHenry, Baltimore,
Chesapeake Bay. America was at war
with England for the second time. On
September 12, 1814, Key visited a ship
of the British Fleet occupying Chesapeake
Bay to negotiate for the release of Dr.
William Beanes. He was successful, but
when he went to go ashore he was
stopped. The British were about to
bombard Fort McHenry. All night the
battle raged, and at dawn of September
13 Key saw the Stars and Stripes still
flying. So great were his emotions at the
joyful sight that he immediately composed
the words of “The Star Spangled Banner.”
Later these were set to the tune of
“Anacreon in Heaven,” an old drinking-
song of the British Isles. In 1931 Con-
gress officially declared it America’s
national anthem.
❖ ❖ ❖
“J.K.M.”: It must be some time since
“C. 8.” (B. 3/8/’55) visited Gordon’s
grave in the Brighton (Vic.) cemetery. At
the time of Gordon’s death the spot was
“country.” It is now “city,” and the
wattle-tree C Acacia saligna ) has dis-
appeared. The original tree was planted
by Annie Lauder — nee Bright. The Bright
“Who is NOT paying attention to the score ?”
family befriended Gordon. “Ned” of
“The Sick Stockrider” was Ned Bright.
However, for any Gordon-admirer who’d
like to raise a Gordon-memorial in the
shape of a tree grown from that wattle,
seeds can be obtained from J. K. Moir,
Box 1663, G.P.0., Melbourne.
* ❖ *
“1.M.”: “Birrana’s” friend Karl (B.
20/7/’55) isn’t the only one with language
troubles. After five years of speaking
only the very best Australian, my Serb
husband is indignant at his latest dis-
covery. “English is no good,” states he.
“Plenty times you tell me all the men
eat in the mess. Now you say I must put
cat out or she will make a mess. This is
very silly.”
♦>
“Wusslean”: When I ran into an old
schoolmate I hadn’t seen for more than
20 years I was struck by the uncomfort-
able thought that if he looked and spoke
like a middle-aged man I must give others
a similar impression. We regretfully
recalled what wild young devils we were,
and agreed that the present generation of
schoolboys are, by our standards, mild-
mannered young gentlemen. When I
reached home there was a letter from my
elder lad, who attends the same school
and was away at the college forestry-
camp. Young Wusslean enclosed a note
for his younger brother: “If you’re com-
ing up on Sunday to see me, bring my
ging [i.e., shanghai] and plenty of
hungers: the dorm, raids are on.”
Ju, A, A.
V V V
“Geep”: I became well known to the
local bookseller as one with more time
to browse than money to spends With
one of my rare purchases, he presented
me with a complimentary lx>okmark. On
it was printed a short poem, saying how
really happy the bookseller is to have
his clients “just look.” But there was a
sting in the tail —a request to remember
that:
The bookseller’s living can never be made
By the sweat of his customers’ browse!
*t* ' . . * ❖
“Ceg”: Copying-presses have become
almost, but not quite, obsolete. Type-
writers and carbon-copies have taken
their place, but whenever I see one of
those museum-pieces I am reminded of
the days when pages of carefully-written
copperplate were handed over to some
raw junior to press-copy. The resultant
mess was enough to make the angels
weep. Recently in a country bank the
teller found a couple of badly bent coins
in his cash and straightened them out in
the old press. “Oh,” said one of the
lady clerks, “is that what the press is for?
I’ve often wondered.” Another use to
which they are sometimes put nowadays
is as presses for tennis-racquets.
❖ ❖ *
“K.A.”: Stocktaking was always a
terrible business in the R.A.A.F. As the
officer responsible had to get a hand-
over-takeover before proceeding on post-
ing, many and varied were the dodges to
hide deficiencies and great the speed of
departure once the incoming bunny had
signed. I rashly inherited a canteen
deficiency, discovering later it had been
passed down over many moons and staff-
changes. With commendable but unrecog-
nised pertinacity I kept at it, to find
eventually that someone had entered so
many “dozen” headache-powders instead
of “gross.” Poetic justice, perhaps. That
deficiency had certainly created some
headaches.
❖ ❖ ❖
“D.”: Tasmania’s new police-badge, to
be worn by uniformed officers and carried
by plainclothes-men, consists of a lion
rampant on a blue-enamelled map of
Tasmania, set in a modified five-pointed
star and surmounted by a crown. Be-
neath the map is a blue-enamelled bar
with the word “Police,” and beneath it
the officer’s number in contrasting
chrome. It is a natty-looking production,
and Commissioner Delderfield says Tas-
manian police are the first in the Com-
monwealth to have a breast-badge
incorporating the number. If other States
follow it may give a lead to a new hobby,
collecting police-badges—in which case
it will be the collector and not the owner
who will be entitled to have the words
“For Valor” engraved on each acquisi-
tion.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nonnel”: What, “Bo,” would consti-
tute the covering of a woman’s head for
church-attending purposes (B. 20/7/’55)?
I recall a dear old aunt who, when her
dressing-ritual for the weekly trip had
been attended to, would fastidiously
arrange a fine brown wig on her almost
hairless head, dnd then crown all with
a hat almost as big as a sulky-wheel.
Now, I contend that that woman would
have complied with the regulations with-
out the hat.
❖ ❖ *>
“Maitri”: Nothing is more infuriating
to an audience —especially when it knows
the subject-matter is first-class —than a
lecturer who mumbles. Some public
speakers, who earn their livings thus, are
simply incomprehensible. In long years
of lecture-haunting I’ve listened to few
who have bothered to develop a good
delivery. One exception who enthralled
me had a fine voice, enunciated clearly
and phrased superbly with no droopy
cadences, but twice came to an embar-
rassing halt in the middle of the lectures
—he didn’t even hum-and-liaw, but just
struggled silently. After a bit he re-
covered and carried on triumphantly to
the end. I guessed what had happened:
he’d first prepared his lectures, then
memorised them. They both took over
an hour, so this was no mean feat. If
his memory failed, he just had to fish
round till he hooked on to tjie right words.
A LOST ART
A Hollywood producer says that strict
limitation of the length of screen-kisses has
led to less-convincing romance-sequences.”
Tne old-time hero of the screen
Would swoop upon the heroine;
He'd come to grips,
And, oh, her lips
He’d often almost mangle!
He’d bend her backwards like a bow,
That muscle-bound Lothario,
And as his eyes with love would glow
The dame he’d damn’ near strangle.
He was a wonder, let’s admit.
He didn’t know just when to quit.
Two minutes flat,
His record—that
A feat for any lover.
And though his fibres it might tear,
He’d never once come up for air!
Moreover, no iron-lung was there
To help that guy recover.
Continuous toil he’d never shirk;
He took an interest in his work.
A peck, a dab,
A labial jab
Was, to him, amorous mockery.
The depths of sacrifice he’d plumb —
No beer beforehand, and no rum.
The force he used would leave him numb
And sometimes crack his crockery.
Degeneracy’s now set in.
When lip to lip and chin to chin
The stop-watch ticks
The time to mix —
And this unchivalrous is.
No wonder hero’s thunder-browed,
By minute-hand he’s disendowed.
How sad to think he’s not allowed
Long-distance trips on busses!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
When Samson was shorn of his locks
he lost his strength; but shaving off
the beard obligatory on a Sikh seems to
have had the opposite effect on Gurcham
Singh Sidhu, who three years ago came
to Melbourne under a Colombo Plan
fellowship from an obscure job with the
Punjab Department of Agriculture to
study and research into the mysteries of
the digestive system. Today he is author
of three papers which have earned him
world-wide recognition, as well as of
several discoveries in the way food-pro-
teins are absorbed and used by the body,
which are expected to have far-reaching
effects on nutrition. Gurcharn’s broad,
round face was alight with satisfaction
when he received his Doctor of Philo-
sophy degree at Melbourne University
the other evening, the first Colombo
Plan student to get such. He worked
under Professor Wadham, doyen of the
Faculty of Agriculture, and F. J. R. Hird,
senior lecturer in biochemistry.
• •
The merchant-house of Hoffnung’s can
fairly claim to be “a part of the history
of the nation.” Started in Sydney’s old
Wynyard-lane three years over a century
ago (capital £500), the firm has shifted
from building to building, growing
steadily; present address the 10-story
warehouse in Clarence-street, with annual
turnover exceeding £l2 million. There
have been imported onions from Spain,
nuts' from South America, sugar from
Jamaica, billiard-tables, merry-go-rounds,
sheep-shearing machinery; exported
opals from White Cliffs, diamonds from
NEEDLES AND ANCHORS
N. S. Wales, sapphires from Queens-
land. And today the firm can supply
needles and anchors. Amongst all this
vast merchandising growth for 52 years,
Leslie David Davis (displayed here) is
a smallish, brown-faced, alertly intelligent
present managing-director who kicked-
off dusting and sweeping some of the
huge array he now commands. In his
time, and lately, chairman of many allied
associations, their interests ranging from
mouldings and hardware to tobacco and
sporting-ammunition, he has for long
been associated with the Royal Austra-
lian Historical Society, and applied his
historical bent to preparing his firm’s
lOOth-anniversary brochure. His son
Allan (Old Vic producer under Hugh
Hunt) joined the British Army as private,
and was captain for the landing in Italy.
Son Geoffrey (warehouse-manager in
Brisbane) was a sarge of artillery in the
2/sth; Alamein and Syria. L.D., also
a director of Sydney Hospital and vice-
president of the Hospitals Contribution
Fund, became the other day president
of the Sydney Chamber of Commerce.
• •
While travelling in Greece and Italy
studying ancient ruins, under the terms
of the Rome Scholarship in Architecture
—he was the first student outside Britain
to get it—-Peter Staughton, one-time of
Melbourne University, was informed that
he had won, in addition, the Fulbright
Scholarship. Under the terms of the
Fulbright he will study regional- and
town-planning at the Cranbrook Academy
of Arts, Detroit. He is a son of Mel-
bourne architect R. C. Staughton.
• •
“Hop Scrub”: Ceylon-bound on a
Colombo Plan assignment, T. B. Paltridge,
Adelaide University science-graduate
and one of C.5.1.R.0.’s leading pasture-
researchers. After graduation, he was
at Koonamore Vegetation Reserve look-
ing into the reactions of perennial salt-
bush to grazing, and area-subdivision
into smaller paddocks with better siting
of watering-places. In the early ’thirties,
in the Division of Plant Industry
in Canberra, he studied drought-effects
on introduced pasture-plants, then to
Queensland, in charge of C.5.1.R.0.’s
Cooper Laboratory, later oi.c. in Bris-
bane. In 1952 he went overseas, noting
pastures and tropical agriculture in
Ceylon, India, widely through Africa
and in the U.K. Highlights of his
Queensland work were the development
and management of sub-tropical pastures.
Initially the Food and Agricultural
Organisation sent agricultural scientists
on comparatively short visits to Asian
countries; they landed, inspected, made
recommendations and embarked for
home, leaving no one capable of carry-
ing out their suggestions. Paltridge is
to stay three years with h.q. at Lunuwila,
in Ceylon—long enough to get the
answers and establish them in grazing
and agricultural practice and to train
staff. Off-pasture pursuits included row-
ing stroke in St. Peter’s (Adelaide) Ist
Four and in the University Eight; and
in Brisbane he’s been vice-president and
producer of the Repertory Theatre, his
last popular effort being “Bell, Book
and Candle.’’
• •
Old Digger and a senior public servant
in Westralia, Reg. A. Wood has been
appointed arbitrator for the Public Ser-
vice of Papua and New Guinea. In 43
years in the public service he held down
many jobs, among them industrial regis-
trar of the State Arbitration Court and
(present post) secretary to the Public
Service Commissioner. His war-service
was in France with the 51st Battalion.
• •
“Macnell” on a submariner:
Shortly before Hitler stowed-away the
muzzle-covers of the British Fleet, E. J. D.
Turner was a probationary sub-lieutenant (than
which theie is little lower-down) in battleship
Resolution. The other day, now in command
of the Fourth Submarine Squadron operating
from Sydney (some of its units just returned
from exercises in the South China Sea), he was
promoted four-ringed captain.
Resolution was his first and last up-top
address. When the balloon went up he was
already in the Mediterranean, third-hand in
submarine Otway, namesake of an old Austra-
lian sub. Shortly he shifted, liaison-officer, to
the French submarine Rubis, commanded by
Capitaine de Corvette Cabanier, D. 5.0., now
rear-admiral in Indo-China. Rubis was a
minelayer; her sowings round Norway collected
five ships. This touchy work brought Turner
D.S.C.
Followed various sub-surface boats, then he
went to H.M.S. Clyde, first-lieutenant. Off the
Cape Verde Islands Clyde surprised three
U-boats. One promptly turned towards and
buried her snout in the Britisher’s tail. Though
holed, Clyde dived and got back to Gibraltar.
Turner’s surface-servicemates accounted for two
of the U-boats.
He got his first command, Sibyl, in mid-1942,
lieutenant, On patrol off Toulon the day before
the Allied landing in North Africa, he was
ordered to rendezvous off the south coast of
France to pick up seven of General Giraud’s
staff. For some hours Sibyl waited in the dark
night, a spud’s-throw from the alert coast.
Then the small boat appeared. For this, other
cloak-and-dagger ops. and several ships sunk,
Turner added D.S.O. He had command of
Affray (then building and tragically lost later
through a faulty Snorkel-tube) and came to
Australia, boss of the primely-important British
submarine-squadron in Sydney two years ago.
A trifle over 40, and a Scot.
• ■ •
“Uramao”: Calling it a day, M. J.
Barnett, director of parks and reserves in
Christchurch (N.Z.). In his 26 years
there he brought about what has won for
it the title of “The Garden City of New
Zealand.” After learning all he could
at Dunedin’s botanic gardens, he shifted
to London’s Kew for further enlighten-
ment, but was back in time drop his
secateurs and help the N.Z.E.F. to prune
Jacko on Gallip. and Fritz in France.
An M.B.E. for his services to horticul-
ture, he’s also elected an associate of the
Royal Horticultural Society, the second
Enzedder to enter that exclusive band.
• •
Taking his 17st. into retirement,
Inspecting Superintendent ’Francis Wil-
liam Lyon, a leading sleuth in more than
20 Victorian murder-cases. He was the
detective whom Russell-street put on to
the case of the three strangled women
which momentarily diverted the attention
of the whole of Melbourne from the
threat of a Jap invasion. The murderer
was traced to an American Army camp
near Melbourne, and turned out to be a
soldier named Leonski, whose charm
was testified to by several Toorak
hostesses. After some argument as to
whose jurisdiction he came under he was
handed over to an American court-
martial and hanged. Lyon’s weight didn’t
prevent him earning the reputation of
“running like a deer.” As well as in
sleuthing, his strength and fleetness have
shown well in wrestling, football and
boxing.
• •
Between 1947-55 Federal and N. S.
Wales secretary to the Royal Australian
Institute of Architects, Joe Storrie goes
to the rapidly expanding Plastics Insti-
tute, there also State and Federal sec.
Accountant by training, with Commerce
diploma from Sydney University, in War
II he was with Admiral Kincaid, lieuten-
ant, liaisoning for the R.A.N. in the
headquarters ship of the U.S. 7th Fleet;
Hollandia and Leyte two of the remem-
bered actions.
• ■ •
Doctor of Laws, Raden Tirtawinata
became Attorney-General in the first
Indonesian Government at Djakarta in
1946. Since then he’s been Minister to
Irak and to Pakistan. Now he comes
to Canberra, Ambassador in succession
to Dr. M. Tamzil.
• •
Claimed from Heidelberg Repatriation
Hospital in Melbourne, at 62, Major-
General Clive Selwyn Steele was a War I
company-commander at 25, and M.C.
At the start of War II he left a big con-
sulting-engineer’s practice to take com-
mand of Sixth Divvy Engineers, and in
1942 was appointed Engineer-in Chief of
the Allied Forces —a big Pacific job very
ably fulfilled. The previous year he had
won D.S.O. for saving the situation at
Pharsala Bridge, Greece, when an aerial
bomb exploded a truck of ammonal, and
Stukas did their vertical best to stir up
the resultant confusion. Bom in Mel-
bourne in 1892, and commissioned in
1912, he was one of only two honorary
colonels of the Royal Australian
Engineers (appointed in 1953), and last
year he joined Essington Lewis, Lord
Louis Mountbatten, Sir Henry Barra-
clough and General Sturdee as an honor-
ary member of the Institution of
Engineers—recognition of his control of
Engineers in War 11. Awarded Mel-
bourne University’s Kermot Memorial
Medal for 1944, director of half-a-dozen
companies (from oil and newspapers to
motor-cars), he rose Sir Clive in 1953.
e •
“Slops”: Charles Herbert Blacklock
would agree with that assessment of a
naval “purser’s” responsibility recorded
in B. 10/8/’55. Just retired after 40
years in, he stood-by the building—and
supplying—of our first aircraft-carrier,
and that’s a job he’s not likely to forget:
she’s stores frpm stem to stern. He did
the same for cruiser Shropshire, when she
commissioned, mid-War-11. Also with
the 7th Destroyer Flotilla in that shindy,
in War I he was in H.M.A.S. Fantome, a
small survey-vessel which, mounted with
a few popguns, was sent into the Pacific
to search for the German raider Wolf.
Luckily, they didn’t find her. Not (at
55) by any means finished, he’ll stay on
at Navy Office, though bowler-hatted.
Born in Cheshire (Eng.), he is the only
captain in the Australian Navy to have
reached that rank from the lower-deck.
ROBERT FELL, born in West Cum-
berland, England; into British civil
service, for the Board of Trade into
Europe, especially Italy; for the B.E.F.
into North Africa, Sicily and Italy. Now
U.K. Trade Commissioner in Queensland.
One-time captain of the Civil Service
Rugby Union Club.
A “good-hearted bloke” is what South
Aus. Diggers say of Alfred Gordon
Pritchard (below), secretary of their
State’s R.S.L. An assessment which can
be verified particularly on the first Sun-
day of each month, when the sec.’s genial
phiz is seen visiting round Parkside
Mental Hospital. In turn businessman,
salesman, dealer in softgoods, Pritchard
descends on his mother’s side from
Governor King; was schooled in
Sydney; headed southwards in 1926.
,In War I with Third Div. Artillery in
SOFT GOODS AND DIGGERS
France, on one remembered occasion he
was the only five-mile-sniper in a cere-
monial guard. At the order “Unfix,”
Pritchard made a complete job of it by
dropping his bayonet. When the sergeant
could see again, he eyed balefully the
culprit’s color-patch, and out it came:
“A artilleryman! I s’pose you’re
—— well used to sloping arms with
a cannon!” These days, off-watch,
the gunner gardens.
• •
Major-General L. R. LaFleche, who
followed K. A. Greene as Canadian High
Commissioner to Australia, and later
became his country’s Ambassador to
Argentine and Uruguay, last month
retired from the Canadian diplomatic
service. LaFleche was a distinguished
soldier of World War I.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 60, James Balfour Stark, Old
Digger and managing-secretary of the Rottnest
Board of Control since 1935. Before that (since
1922) he had been in charge of the island
tourist-resort. A Scot who arrived in Westralia
45 years ago and was jackerooing in the north-
west until War I broke out, he served as a
gunner in France, winning D.C.M. During his
years on Rottnest Island he built up a reputa-
tion for efficiency combined with tact and
geniality. A noted Soccer-player in Scotland,
and a good all-round athlete, he was for years
captain of the Rottnest cricket-team, to which
post his son has succeeded.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 92, Thomas Benjamin
Clay, who as a youth came to Australia from
a woollen-manufacturing family in Halifax
(England), and in 1893 crossed the Tasman.
He was prominent in civic affairs in Auckland,
and was chairman of the Auckland Harbor
Board until 1935. He also held a number of
company-directorships. His wife died in 1952
at the age of 90. Two of his sons became
branch-managers of the N.Z. Insurance Co.
At Linden Park (S.A.) Eventide Home for
Old Men, at 86, Alfred Joseph Voules Brown,
who, until evacuated from Darwin after the first
raid there, had been identified with the Territory
and north-west Australia since 1884. He
wrested a more-or-less generous living from
sources many and varied —mining, pearling,
storekeeping, butchering (Marble Bar), buffalo-
shooting, lugger-trading with Japs and Malays
and trepang-fishing in the Gulf. Ernestine Hill
devoted parts of one of her books to much of
old Alf’s experiences.
In Melbourne, at 61, Colonel J. J. L. McCall,
D. 5.0., of a military family. His grandfather,
a major, lost a leg in the Crimea; his father,
city-engineer of Sydney in his time, served in
two African colonial wars, then against Kruger,
and commanded the Ist Engineers against the
Kaiser. Himself a Duntroon man, J.J.L.
served in France and Belgium, was specially
mentioned by the G.0.C., A.1.F., for courage
in the German raid on the Bridoux salient
in 1916; started War II as Commonwealth
Director of Civilian Defence, and. ended it as
the C.-in-C.’s special liaison-officer at Ist Army
h.q. in New Guinea. He was the author of
several smallarms-training manuals.
At Toowoomba (Q.), James Harris, who, in
his three factories in Coventry (Eng.) in War 11,
turned-out millions of yards of webbing for
belts, haversacks and other soldiering requisites.
With his plant rubbled by the Luftwaffe, Harris
looked afield; started at Toowoomba on the
Darling Downs the first ribbon-weaving factory
in Queensland, staffed mainly by his old
Coventry hands; and produced ribbons by the
mile, as well as Laconia and Stamina trade-
labels. A solid Rotarian in both Coventry and
on the Downs.
At 78, in Melbourne, E. Glanville Hicks,
0.8. E., one of the greatest of local charity-
workers. For 25 years a secretary and chiet
executive-officer of the Lord Mayor’s Fund, he
raised £2,000,000. In 1915 he undertook the
War Graves task in Egypt and thereabouts, and
ultimately set graves-registration on a proper
footing from Egypt to Gibraltar, Wrote two
volumes of poems.


~flin.-M.-yn,
“Surprlse-d that if fia£ kept
iit tkis condition —*=«* —*
Should be ri^kir
kovj , Qeor^,
(ike the
expert touch
it lias [?ee*v
/* doubt uthetheir wttVe eyer
ve.'sdhj Leas'd.
Its proper tone aa\xL
VollOV\£, bJpre^s
NEIGHBORLY HELP


ABORIGIANLITIES
AR- CITY dwellers, living on
”*■ Sydney’s North Shore, we probably
wouldn’t be classed as real nature-lovers:
rather it’s the other way round—odd
creatures seek us out. A mopoke made
its nest in our guttering and hatched out
young—only one young, but that is a lot
for a mopoke in a gutter. Huge lizards
(goannas?) bask on our flagging; great
hairy spiders come constantly to live be-
hind our doors. A tortoise appeared on
the back-step one damp morning and
stayed with us three weeks (own s.c. flat
with swimming-pool made out of old
baby-bath); and now we have a frog
living in our spare w.c. When we found
him there, swimming around, we ladled
him carefully out, put him in a wide shell
full of water in a nice damp place in the
garden and went away very pleased to
have been so kind to Freddo’s twin-
brother. And next day he was back in
the plumbing, looking over the rim of
the bowl, resting, as it were, on his elbows
and blowing-out his cheeks like a suc-
cessful grafter with a cigar. And there
he stays ; and we, since we fear the touch
of a (clammy) little hand, have no spare
La. —■“Golden Willows.”
* * * *
“Wusslean”: An unexpected and wel-
come effect of myxomatosis has been an
increase in food-supplies for koalas. It
has been found at a reserve at Castle-
maine (Vic.) that manna-gum seedlings
there have grown rapidly since decima-
tion of the rabbits, with the result that
the koalas have doubled their numbers
during the past two years.
*** . *
“M’Lou”: The Emperor gum-moth,
whose larvae provide Murray River
anglers with bait, isn’t often seen in flight,
though each autumn large brown-tipped
empty cocoons, thicker than a finger,
may be seen protruding from the soil,
into which the larvae burrow to pupate.
Evidently this has been a good season
for them, as moths which emerged at
Quantong (Vic.) and surprised house-
holders by tapping on windows had
bodies 4in. to 6in. long and one had a
wing-span of Ift.!
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: Our gang was shifting
a load of steel with the electric-gantry.
It had to be lifted high enough to clear
piles of angle-iron, but one end got
snagged, and the gang had to get beneath
the suspended load to free it. We
were all about to step under when a
passenger-train went thundering by and
Finnigan yelled: “Luk at the sheila
wavin’! ” Just as the whole gang looked
up to get a better gink at fleeting winsome-
ness the load-chain snapped and deposited
half a ton of steel at our feet. When
the boss turned up he said it was a good
thing we had sense enough to keep from
getting under a load.
* v * * *
“Ybsul”: Mention of Tonga’s Queen
Salote (B. 3/8/’55) always reminds me
of the time I watched that monarch
shake hands with W. M. Hughes. It
was back in the ’thirties, and I’d been
sent by an editor to board the ship bear-
ing the Queen and consort Tugi (pro-
nounced - “Tungi”) to Sydney. Salote
towered above all hands there to meet
her, and first to speak up was W.M.H. —
definitely in the flyweight division. “I
assure your Majesty that I and my Gov-
ernment are very much at your
disposal,” the Little Digger was saying,
when her Majesty reached down and
shook his extended hand. The newspaper
blokes swore later that in mid-shake a
good foot of daylight showed between the
deck and the shine on Billy’s shoes.
* * * *
“Kalia”: I filmed a hen lyrebird at a
nest with young. She became very tame
and would sit close to me and copy many
local bird-calls. After one recital I said,
“All right, all right, do this” —and gave
my best imitation of a dog barking. She
“did this” straight back at me, even to
the number of “barks”! Unfortunately
the young one left the nest before I could
teach her to talk.
* * * *
“Wal”: The ground-nesting plover,
despite his various forms of camouflage,
is going down now to the fox, simply
because the fox’s sense of smell is so
acute; and I’m puzzled. A wambenger
or a native-cat will raid my fowlhouse
and kill the chooks; the dingo doesn’t
despise a meal of emu or turkey; and
there are several small marsupials with
a fondness for birds’-eggs. A ground-
nesting bird should have been a sitting-
shot for them, yet the plover survived.
Why? Are our native carnivores all de-
ficient in the sense of smell, or was the
balance of nature tipped in some other
way in the birds’ favor?
* * * *
“C.P.G.”: Naming of Victoria’s loco-
motives illustrates eras in the State’s
"Step on it, mate! You re holding up the Melbourne Express!"
history. They started off with Mel-
bourne, Sandridge, Victoria, Yarra and
St. Kilda. Then came the boosting-era,
when they picked such names as Rapid
and Meteor. The elegant era came next,
with Oberon and Titania, followed by the
furious era, with Sirocco, Typhoon,
Hurricane and Cyclone. The Biblical era
produced Goliath, Samson and Tubal
Cain. They then went on with the more
ordinary-sounding names of the suburbs
which they served. With the taking-over
of the railways by the Victorian Govern-
ment names were abandoned until the
"Somehow it doesn't look right to me.”
naming of the four Spirit-of-Progress
S-class after pioneers, and the first diesel
after Sir Harold Clapp.
* * * *
“Morayda”: My experience in this
bushcraft business agrees with “Cano-
pus’s” finding (B. 10/8/’55), that
when the sun is out it’s easy
to keep a set course in the bush.
But one cloudy day I left the stock-camp
late and started off on a short-cut into
mulga scrub, where the black-boys were
tailing cattle. I didn’t get lost, because I
had my horse’s tracks to follow back to
camp, but I certainly was bushed in the
sense that I didn’t know where I was.
Fortunately, I cut fresh cattle-tracks and
after following them for a couple of
miles located the cattle and gave the
boys the impression that I was “proper
good bushman.”
* * * *
“Mansom”: Emus are comedians. Two
of them ruled the roost at Wilga (N.S.W.)
a few years back. Quite a few horsemen
visiting Wilga had to get a lift home
and found their scared nags, with broken
reins, fidgeting at the sliprails when they
got there. It took them some time to
realise that even the most easygoing old
prad got nervous when a cobra-like head
snaked out at hiip from each side of
a tree. Just the emus playing, but the
horses didn’t know that. A bullock-team
lumbered into the yard one day. While
the driver was away the birds stalked
round this unusual sight. Then the
comedians broke into a high-stepping
trot, and from that to a full gallop round
the yard. The bullQcks soon got the spirit
of this, and the driver returned to find
two feathered whirling dervishes and his
staid team doing its best to be in it.
The emus were the only ones that really
enjoyed it.
* * * *
“Montrose”: Although they’re rough
as chooks in a food-ruck, the kookas I’m
host to don’t try to snatch his bit from
another’s beak; if two of them grab the
ends of a longish piece simultaneously
they crouch into a steady pull, give it
sudden jerks and keep up a guttural duet
—apparently empty threats—until one
lets go. And the quitter never attempts
a comeback.
“Sixtoes”: There had been a burglary
in the little New Zealand town, not a
very expert job at that—bottle through
the back-window and about 20-quid out
of the till. The arm of the law bided his
time and watched to see who was spend-
ing more freely than usual: old Honi.
The sergeant moved quietly up beside
Honi at the bar, passed the time of the
day, asked after the family, and came to
the point. “You don’t know what a
lucky fellow you are, Honi. The other
night I was going along the street and
I saw a light in the butcher’s. I thought
it might have been a burglar so I slipped
back to the station and got my gun. I
was just going to shoot when the man
turned round and I saw it was you. So
I went back and put the gun away again.”
“Py korri,” said Honi. “I sure was the
lucky fellow. I think I give you one of
the fivers I got, eh?”
* * * *
“ACT”: Perhaps the argument has
been settled long ago, but it cropped up
again at a showing of a News and Infor-
mation film on the uses of what was
named “ti-tree” bark. I always under-
stood that, although there’s a ti shrub
in Polynesia, the Australian tree got its
name from Sir Joseph Banks, on the
ground that its leaves resembled tea-
leaves. Hence my belief that the proper
spelling is that The Bulletin uses,
“tea-tree.” There’s no evidence, I be-
lieve, that the aborigines ever called it
“ti.”
* * * #
“J. 8.”: Within a month Brisbane
police have been called-on to cope with
three traffic-jams. The first was caused
by a Cobb and Co. coach delivering mail
to the G.P.O. The second was caused
by a load of sugar slipping off a truck:
the street held snowdrifts of sugar,
through which cars proceeded with cau-
tion in low gear. But the third time
even the police raised their eyebrows,
when Saturday-afternoon race-traffic was
held up by a 23281 b. white-pointer shark
caught in Moreton Bay. Too heavy for
the weighing-scales at the Hamilton
game-fishing wharf, the monster was put
on a float and towed to a weighbridge in
the Valley, right through the middle of
the traffic coming home after the last
race.
* * * *
“Motuku”: The leaf-cutting bee, so
well described by “Quo Vadis” (B.
27/7/’55), cuts leaves or petals to two
patterns: U-shaped for the case of its
little cartridge, and circular for the wads
that partition and plug it. One of them
found “a better ’ole” than a burrow in
the earth when it placed four of these
little green rose-leaf capsules in the
vacated home of a bush canary that had
reared its brood in the bark-and-fibre
nest hanging from a hook under our
front-balcony.
OVER PRETTY SALLY
(Road Transport)
Over Pretty Sally the big trucks go
Roaring up the high road, racing down the low;
Where the dry earth parches or where the grey
rain drums,
Underneath the arches of the roadside gums;
All night driving, at the wheel all day,
Taking the big transports down the Queen’s
highway.
Shadow of an aeroplane, horses, sheep and
cows;
Rabbits in the weedy drains, birds behind the
ploughs;
Golden lie the paddocks, sleepy in the sun;
The shining cars go sliding by, the roaring
cycles run.
A whole world lies behind us and another just
as wide
Back of Pretty Sally, over the Divide.
Look from Pretty Sally, if you get the chance,
All a cloudless heaven may be captured at a
glance;
Deep in the yellow silence the long miles lie,
Just a vast magnificence of earth and air and
sky.
Plains and peaks and pastures, hills and downs
Oyer Pretty Sally and on to New South Wales.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Ym convinced CAPSTAN
is better tobacco!'
“I have tried many tobaccos but none to
compare with Capstan for true smoking
enjoyment.
“ Capstan’s own blend of fine Virginia
tobaccos is consistently maintained; you
can always be sure of its flavour and fine
smoking qualities.”
Ask everywhere for — j
m
a
I
k
<b
m
N.X-*
■j 4
:*:*• ?: 5
8*
Z&
SP^W
VIRGINIA
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT
TOBACCO
204D.1Q.M
Bed-time desert warmth
W i
m
m
m
mm
UUUI
yours with
Electric BLANKETS & PADS
T. S. NETTLEFOLD & SONS JS
MELBOURNE: 189 King Street
SYDNEY: 619 Elizabeth Street, Redfern
ADELAIDE: 288 Flinders Street East
PERTH: 1032 Hay Street
A thousand and one nights of comfortable, cosy
sleep are yours when you use a Thermophore
Electric Blanket. Just like magic, a Thermophore
heats your bed to just that temperature you
require. It is thermostatically controlled to prevent
overheating. Thermophore Electric Blankets are
also of special benefit to those who require warmth
to ease or cure muscular aches and pains. The
Thermophore pad is equipped with a waterproof
cover for added protection with children and
invalids. Why suffer the weight of four ordinary
blankets and wake up tired in the morning?
Thermophore Blankets and Pads are really efficient
and use only a trickle of electricity. Buy your
Thermophore Electric Blanket or Pad today and
liave desert sunshine in your bed tonight.
Please send me full Details of the
Thermophore Blanket and Pad. 8.N.l
Name
Address
A REDEEMING feature of the hazel-
eyed crow is his perfectly-symmetrical
build. Every part of him is in exact pro-
portion to the rest: bill, wings, head,
body, tail, legs and feet. Many birds are
caricatures to some extent, some feature
or other being adapted to the bird’s
special needs. The. heron has a neck,
legs and bill which are monstrosities in
view of the small body. The willy-
wagtail’s tail is another example; others
are the long wings and almost non-
existent feet of the swift, the long bill of
the cobbler’s-awl honeyeater, and the
excess upholstery which gives the owl its
silent flight. In the case of Kelly, even
his plumage is streamlined. He is the
perfect avian figure, his nearest rivals
being the currawong and the magpie.—
“Kelly’s Friend.”
* * * *
“Jas”: Surprised to hear that a scissors-
grinder crashed into a pane of glass (B.
27/7/’55). The restless-flycatcher (not
fantailed-flycatcher as stated) may often
be seen hovering around windows in
search of insects trapped in the sills and,
unlike the pee wee, is apparently not per-
turbed by his reflection in the
glass. The matey scissors - grinder
is among the many birds that
have learnt to exploit man’s establish-
ments and gardens. With a strange grind-
ing call which, once heard, can never be
forgotten, and a peculiar gliding flight,
he is a bird of some distinction.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Liquor for natives in
Papua and New Guinea is still a lively
issue in the Territory, the latest develop-
ment being appointment by the Legisla-
tive Council of a select committee to con-
sider it. Father J. Dwyer, a mission
member of the Council, said it is pro-
posed to control abuses without denying
liquor to those who show themselves cap-
able of using it wisely. The claim that
liquor had a degrading effect on all
native people was true only because its
use had been abused and uncontrolled —
he instanced the Australian aborigines,
the Maoris and the American Indians.
It would admittedly be necessary to set
up a new social class for the time being.
He added:
We cannot educate natives to a secondary-
education level and entrance to universities, and
then ask them to stand still while the other
1,500,000 people catch up with these leaders in
native progress. Somewhere along the line,
what we call “native privilege” merges into
human rights, and these cannot be withheld
from people who show that they are ready
for them.
♦ # * *
“Morayda” : Nominate as the worst
sort of fencing-job any bloke can
have the tough luck to tackle one like
the cattle-run fence we had to run across
stony, porcupine-spinifex hills in the
Centre. The stones quickly blunted crow-
bars and blistered hands, and made it
difficult to ram posts tight. The spinifex,
with spines thick as knitting-needles and
sharp as tacks, gave us a torrid time.
Even such great hill-climbers as Here-
fords wouldn’t cross those hills unless
chased. A month later, I was still pulling
spines out of my legs.
* * *
“Bass”: W.A. aborigines sometimes
used two firesticks to* keep a smoulder
going (B. 20/7/’55), but they didn’t wave
them around. That would have created
flame where only a glow was needed.
During wet or cold weather they’d keep
the live end shielded by a piece of skin
or bark, a job usually given to an old
woman. She guarded the ember as
though it was her life, as indeed it was.
Therein lay her sole claim to enough food
to keep her alive, and if it went out she
was no longer considered worth keeping.
But at least she had the choice of some
good woods. South Westralian redgum
will smoulder, even in rain, until only a
thin white ash remains ; in the wheat-
belt roots which ignite during the burnmg-
off will sometimes smoulder underground
all the winter and set fire to a ripening
crop nine months later. Up north the
favorite for firesticks was snakewood,
which smoulders or bums continuously
“ Ain't yez ever seen a stowaway before ?”
with practically no smoke. Natives
travelling any distance by canoe in the
north usually carried a snakewood fire.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: To what size does a goanna
grow? A North Queenslander tells me
he has seen goannas measuring up to
9ft., and that a mate of his killed a go.
(Varanus giganteus ) that wejnt nearly 10ft.
When I suggested that his mate may have
mistaken a croc, for a go. the barney
started.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The big horizontal
suction-gas engine was heating-up—it is
still a vital thing on a country-town
power-line. The gudgeon-pin was sus-
pect. How to check? Wild Jack, our
best driver, was on shift. Draping him-
self over the engine-bed, he. slowly fed
his bent arm alongside the moving
crankshaft, just clear of the flashing
crank-pin counterweights, into the hollow
back of the huge piston. There, at
bottom dead-centre of each outward
stroke of the piston, his fingers con-
tacted the gudgeon-pin boss for a brief
moment; the withdrawal was just as
hazardous. Threat of dismissal was our
alibi for never attempting to take Wild
Jack’s glory from him. Anybody else
ever seen it?
MENNEKIE'S BELL
Old Mennekie made a bell
From the blade of a broken saw,
And the hollow peal of the rusty steel
Would carry a mile and more;
For long, when the teams unyoked
And the friendly campfires blazed,
There was never a fence though wide and dense
Was the scrub where the bullocks grazed.
A bullocky hung the bell
On the neck of his near-side leader
And all night long the lonely gong
Resounded through the timber.
Soon many a bell was made
In the smithy by the river.
The bellows blew, the forge-sparks flew
And the anvil clanged to hammer.
And through the Riverina
In the days of the wagon-teams
All was well while Mennekie’s bell
Chimed in the bullocky’s dreams.
N.S.W.
ROB WEBSTER.


I.A.C
NOW, OPEN
AN issue At FAR Of
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT
TERM to
0
Interest
(per annum}
4J% . . .
%8 8 S
31% * 8 8
31% 8 s *
Currency
■ « 12 months
i . 9 months
s . 6 months
s . 3 months
LONG
TERM to
0
2
Interest Currency
(per annum)
&i% * • « s 10 &15 years
6% • « » * . .4to 9 years
n% « i » i a • 3 years
5% « 2 years
„ Interest payable quarterly free of exchange
Assets exceed £36,000,000
Prospectus may be obtained from
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES
All Branches of the
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LTD.,
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
and
Industrial Acceptance Corporation
LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES - VICTORIA - QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA - WESTERN AUSTRALIA - TASMANIA
Underwriting Brokers: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne and Sydney
For public information. This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to the public to
subscribe for the Stock mentioned herein.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
WAGE AND PRICE MOVES
'T'HE hazy Australian economic
atmosphere thickened further
last week when Premier Cahill,
of New South Wales, announced
that he was going to legislate to
provide for basic-wage increases
in keeping with the cost-of-living
index. The first increase is set
down at 75., and it arises prin-
cipally out of the additions to
costs which followed the lifts
in wage-margins. $
Mr. Cahill has also brought
back a form of price-control, at
present limited in its scope. Other
States have moved in the same
direction, but Victoria is so far
refraining from readopting this
ineffectual anti - inflationary
measure. West Australia is un-
pegging the basic wage, and
Queensland may follow.
It has already been pointed
out here that, however equitable
increases in margins for skill
might be, the granting of them
will produce increases in costs
and further pressure under
the basic wage at a time when
prices for our exports are fall-
ing and overseas trade is
becoming more difficult. Now
the unpegging of the basic wage
in N.S.W. —a wanton act of
political expediency—will aggra-
vate Australia’s competitive dis-
advantages and take more value
from the pound. It will also
depreciate the value of the Aus-
tralian pound in the free-
currency markets of the world
and increase arguments in favor
of devaluation.
But the first effect of the moves
by Premier Cahill was a shock
to economic confidence, seen
clearly in share-quotations on
the Stock Exchange. For about
a year costs have been compara-
tively stable and production per
man per working-week was
starting to improve a little,
though still a long way below
overseas standards in most com-
parable industries. Even under
conditions of cost-stability some
industries, both primary and
secondary, were finding the going
hard. Dairymen and wheat-
farmers were among the former ;
and manufacturers who were
feeling the pinch included those
making refrigerators, other
domestic appliances, plastics,
textiles, ready-made clothing
(including hosiery) and electrical
goods.
Because of high Australian
production-costs and falling
overseas prices the balance-of-
payments for 1954-55 was
“against” this country to the
tune of something like £2OO
million. Imports have been cur-
tailed, and during July there was
a favorable balance of trade. But
absence of competition from the
usual volume of imported goods
will tend to create inflationary
forces—too much money chasing
too few goods again. And the
position of overfull employment
will be accentuated for the
present, anyway. Which will all
add to the forces of cost-
inflation.
The nastiest aspect of any
economic problem in Australia
is always the political one.
Usually all sorts of political
obstacles are raised against the
doing of the natural thing to
correct an unbalanced economic
situation. So it is in N.S.W. now.
“Labor” government is trade-
union government, and the con-
tribution by the trade-union
movement to the solution of any
problem is always kept down to
a minimum. Usually there is the
keenest resistance to any move
to speed-up production and so
reduce costs. Yet higher per
capita output and lower costs are
the answer to most of this
country’s economic ills and the
source from which a higher
standard of living can only come.
For nearly a year the Aus-
tralian banking system has been
trying to cope with inflation by
curtailing credit. But a great
strain has been imposed on the
system—advances have had to
be made to essential industries at
a time when deposits have been
tending to fall. And consumer-
spending, particularly on hire-
purchase goods, has been at a
very high level, to the detriment
of homebuilding and other
activity calling for capital ex-
penditure. Interest-rates have
risen steeply outside the gilt-
edged market, and the raising of
Commonwealth loans has
become difficult.
All over the world there is
a move towards credit-
contraction and inflation-control.
The unpegging of the basic wage
in N.S.W. will be out of step
with this, and will make it more
difficult for Australia to cope
with contracting overseas
markets. Australian share-
markets, at long last, are
awakening to the significance of
the immediate situation, how-
ever attractive the long-term
situation might be if Socialist
Governments are removed from
State Parliaments by popular
vote.
Shares Fall
The Australian sharemarkets
took their first definite shake of
this year just after N.S.W.
Premier Cahill announced his
price-fixing and wage-unpegging
policy. Prior to that investors
had been inclined to ignore other
economic trends, mostly over-
seas, which were, nevertheless,
of great significance.
Anti-infiationary moves have
been taken in most of the major
Western countries, and Australia
is likely to fall more into line as
time goes by. Also, what Britain
has done in this direction is
bound to affect the demand for
raw commodities in the sterling
area, and there may be a
further decline in some Aus-
tralian export-prices. Australia’s
own import-restriction policy
may become, to an extent, the
pattern for other countries,
which would mean a restriction
of international trading for the
time being.
There is a world-wide trend
towards higher interest-rates,
and this in itself is a factor
which influences prices for
equity-shares, especially when
speculative interest quietens and
shares are bought on a “yield”
basis. Though the new Com-
monwealth loan will carry the
same long-term interest-rate as
hitherto, outside interests have
raised their rates, especially hire-
purchase companies. This is a
problem still to be dealt with.
Though the setback in Aus-
tralian share-prices has been
general, up to the beginning of
this week it had not been severe.
Altogether share-prices in the
Commonwealth have held up
extraordinarily well over the
past six months —to an extent,
indeed, which has brought in a
fair amount of, unsophisticated
speculation. The rest of this
year may prove to be more test-
ing.
One thing keeping prices at
their still-high present level is
curiosity as to the results of
1954- trading operations by
many companies. Some should
have very good figures. Perhaps
the B.H.P. group will be repre-
sentative—profits up about 11{
p.c. in this case. But for many
enterprises the first half of
1955- will be more difficult
than any part of 1954-55. All
sorts of problems are starting to
stack up, against which restric-
tion of imports may not be fully
compensatory in the manufac-
turing section.
The Australian economy
appears to be approaching
another crisis, mostly to do with
costs of production, which will
have to be surmounted before
the country can get on effectively
with the vast amount of work
that needs doing.
Burns Philp Rights
Rights to the new par issue by
Burns Philp are worth particular
attention, especially if the share-
market should weaken further.
The offer is one of a million
shares, payable 10s. on applica-
tion by September 30, 1955, and
the final call of 10s. is due a
year later. The rights last week
sold at 285., representing 48s.
fully-paid. The div. has been
kept at 10 p.c. over the past three
years. But the enormous inner
strength of the business must
one day show up to shareholders’
advantage.
Aust. Paper Manufacturers
Under date of April this year,
the Division of Industrial
Development, Canberra, esti-
mated that the output of paper-
board and wrapping-paper in
Australia for the 1954-55 term
would be 20 p.c. above that for
1953-54, which had been a record
year to that time. The largest
manufacturer of these products
is Australian Paper Manufac-
turers, and its profits have a close
relation to output and sales in
the industry. It has a capital of
just under £l7 million, of which
£3i million is in 6 p.c. prefs.,
and its output in 1953-54 was
61,609 tons of woodpulp and
166,276 tons of paper and
boards. (Total Australian
capacity at the moment is
180,000 tons of pulp, 80,000 tons
of newsprint, 100,000 tons of
“other papers,” including fine
writings and printings, and
175,000 tons of paper-boards.
A.P.M. is not interested in news-
print or fine papers.)
Prospects of A.P.M. for the
present indicate sustained
demand and better earnings.
Assuming that a 7 p.c. div. is
paid for the past year (for 1953-
54, 6i p.c.), yield at the current
price of 225. 6d. for the ords.
would be 6.1 p.c., or 5.7 p.c. if
there should be no lift in the
div.-rate.
The A.P.M. organisation, in
which there has been great
capital investment over the past
10 years, now has a chance to
consolidate its position. In
recent memory it has not been
a high profit-earner, but diges-
tion of the new capital raised
since 1947 should before long
show a response in shareholders’
favor.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
M
HURTS
Circular Chart* for all types
of Recording Instruments
tor injr clui ot MtcMatg
METER CHARTS • Spociah?
*«••«* fat <w 0»«ti»e
j/vc imws o'silu van %
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Missing Beneficiary
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN
Re GRACE EDITH BUHOT, late of
“Canonbury,” Junction Terrace, off
Ipswich Road, South Brisbane, in the
State of Queensland, Australia, Spinster,
deceased. TO ARTHUR JOHN BUHOT,
and to any persons claiming by, through
or under him by derivative title or other-
wise.—NOTlCE is hereby given that ail
persons claiming to be next-of-kin of the
abovenamed GRACE EDITH BUHOT, late
of “Canonbury,” Junction Terrace, off
Ipswich Road, South Brisbane, in the
State of Queensland, Australia, Spinster,
deceased, who died on the Twenty-fourth
day of August, 1954, at Brisbane, in the
said State, or any person or persons claim-
ing by, through or under any of the next-
of-kin, whether by derivative title or
otherwise, are hereby required to for-
ward proof of their relationship to THE
PUBLIC CURATOR of Queensland, Bris-
bane, Australia, on or before the Thirty-
first day of December, 1955, and that
after the expiration of the abovementioned
date the said THE PUBLIC CURATOR
will proceed to distribute the assets of
the said deceased amongst the parties
entitled thereto having regard only to
the claims of which he shall then have
had notice. —DATED at Brisbane this
Fourth day of August, 1955. —ALAN
FORD, Public Curator, Brisbane.
Since
1817
&
A
£
Ike Peoples Bank
In the year 1829 the Sydney “Monitor” news-
paper, referring to the Bank of New South Wales,
which had been established in 1817 under Governor
Lachlan Macquarie, wrote: —
“ Macquarie’s Bank is supported by the people,
i.e., by the farmers, merchants, shopkeepers,
mariners, soap-boilers, tanners, butchers, bakers,
gardeners, cedar-gatherers and craft builders of the
colony. It is emphatically, therefore, the people s
bank.”
To-day, with a proud record of continuous
service to the people of Australia for over 138
years, the “Wales” is still “emphatically the
people’s bank”. The people's appreciation of the
services rendered by the Bank and of its efficiency
and business methods is shown by the fact that
deposits now exceed £330 million in Australia alone.
The traditions which have
enabled the “Wales” to retain
the loyalty of its several hundred
thousand customers are being
maintained to-day.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INOOBPOEATHD IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
w.
mmjrvoisii
It to it it if
COO MAC
COURVOISIER
COGNAC
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
NEW SOUTH WALES QUEENSLAND VICTORIA
FESO & COMPANY Pty. THOMAS BROWN & Sons TAYLOR FERGUSON &
““sSr* Lta - Co - t sso& s,re * ,>
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WALTER REYNELL
& Sons,
REYNELLA
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
DALGETY & Co. Ltd.,
P.O. Box 94,
PERTH
TASMANIA
BURGESS BROTHERS
Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 96D,
HOBART
LAW OUTLINE
nr HE main object of Outline
of Law in Australia, by John
Baalman, barrister-at-law, is (in
the words of the author) “to
reach those members of the com-
munity who, without any inten-
tion of adopting law as a pro-
fession, regard some knowledge
of the rules which regulate their
daily lives as a sheer cultural
necessity.”
It is a fascinating and com-
prehensive book, covering
sources of the law, administra-
tion of the law, personal rela-
tions, property, contracts, “torts”
and criminal law. A definition
quoted by the author is that the
law is taken to mean “a system
of rules, imposed by the supreme
authority in a politically
organised society, and recognised
by the members of that society
as governing or regulating their
conduct and intercourse, one
with another.”
The book is very readable
considering the nature and scope
of the subject. A random
example: “A human being com-
mences to be legally recognised
and to have an effect on legal
consequences from the moment
of his conception. Even before
the stage at which medical science
is prepared to certify to his
existence, the law recognises the
possibility of a birth. It penalises
any unwarranted interference
with the natural course of gesta-
tion. It postpones the execution
of a sentence of death upon
a pregnant woman during her
pregnancy.”
Again: “Between birth and
attaining the age of twenty-one
years a person is recognised at
law as an ‘infant.’ For the
purpose of criminal law the
period of infancy is punctuated
by stages of seven years. A child
under the age of sever* years is
conclusively presumed to be
incapable of committing a crime.
The presumption continues
beyond that age, but it can be
rebutted in the case of a child
between the ages of seven and
fourteen years by proving that
he has a mental capacity for
guilt. An infant over the age
of fourteen years is presumed to
be as capable of crime as a
person of full age. In most
jurisdictions, however, there are
special tribunals for dealing with
adolescent criminals and
delinquents up to about the age
of eighteen years.
“There is no law which
exonerates an infant from
liability for a tort or civil wrong.
Thus if a boy of seven or
fourteen or nineteen years
throws a stone through a window
and breaks a valuable ornament,
the law gives the owner a per-
fectly good right of action for
damages; but it is against the
boy —not against the parent. If
a very young child were per-
mitted to play with a dangerous
toy, such as a loaded pistol,
the parent who allowed it would
probably be answerable for any
resultant damage. But that would
be a case of the parent’s
negligence, not the child’s. In a
case recently decided by the
Supreme Court of S.A., a school-
boy aged nine had thrown a pen
at a companion in the class-
room, hitting him in the eye and
destroying its sight. The victim
waited till his assailant turned
twenty-one, sued him in tort for
injury and recovered damages.
More recently still an English
court decided that a parent
would be negligent if he allowed
a boy aged thirteen to have an
air-rifle without taking reason-
able precautions to preclude the
dangerous use of it.”
Though the law takes on
present-day animation in Mr.
Baalman’s pages, the book
frequently goes back into history
and ancient custom to illustrate
legal development and evolution.
Thus, “It seems that by the early
laws of England a valid marriage
could result from the mere
consent of two capable
parties
“The first legislative interfer-
ence with custom occurred in
1753, at a period of social laxity
in England when clandestine
marriages were more the rule
than the exception. A Marriage
Act passed in that year invali-
dated marriages celebrated in
any place other than a church,
or celebrated without publica-
tion of the banns. This Act did
not apply to Sfcotland, within the
borders of which was a certain
village named Gretna Green.
Since 1753,' marriages both in j
England and in the colonies have
been regulated by statute. In
Australia various State laws
require that all marriages must
be celebrated either by ministers
of religion whose names have
been registered for that purpose,
or by certain civil officers, such
as district registrars.
As to marriage itself:
“Marriage confers on the parties
to it a mutual right of cohabita-
tion and a right to the enjoyment
of each other’s society, called
consortium, which has been
described as ‘the sum total of
companionship, love, affection,
comfort, mutual services and
sexual intercourse.’ A husband
has a right of action for damages
against a person who causes a
loss of his consortium; but a
wife has no corresponding right
unless her husband has been
deliberately enticed away.” A
husband is responsible for “his
wife’s debts only when she has
incurred them in the purchase
of necessaries, or under circum-
stances which create the implica-
tion that she acted with his
authority and as his agent. In
South Australia the common law
has been modified in this
respect.”
Negligence is a fruitful source
of litigation—and damages —
these days. Says Mr. Baalman,
in the course of his section on the
subject: “An important factor
in determining liability may be
the question of the plaintiff’s
own conduct. That question
frequently arises in what are
known as ‘running-down cases,’
or traffic accidents. While the
driver of a vehicle may have
lacked that amount of care which
is expected of him, yet the facts
may be such that an accident
would not have occurred without
the contributory negligence of
the plaintiff. The driver may
plead that fact in extenuation
of his own guilt and so escape
legal liability or, at least, obtain
a mitigation of damages. A
pedestrian is expected to look
about him before launching
himself from the footpath into
a busy roadway.” But at this
point it may be wise to mention
that in N. S. Wales and Victoria
(though not in other States, as
Mr. Baalman points out) actions
for damages arising out of road
accidents are tried before a jury.
So the book goes on —readable
and informative all the way
through to the sections dealing
with such subjects as bankruptcy,
assault, rape, murder and
forgery. It is interesting in the
section dealing with criminal
law to read that in N.S.W. (and
probably other States also) the
law of hue and cry has never
been repealed. “And although
the modern sheriff is not expected
to be as vocal as his medieval
predecessors, the obligation still
rests technically on all male
citizens to assist the police in the
apprehension of felons, and in
certain cases to take the initiative
themselves.” But there is “no
rule of law which prevents a
police-officer from interrogating
any person at any time; neither
is there a rule of law which
obliges anyone, whether under
arrest or not, to answer questions
put to him by the police.”
Outline of the Law in Aus-
tralia is published by the Law
Book Co., Sydney, at 255.


The Man on the Land...
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve his
Estate for those whom, under his Will, he desires to benefit.
SS.V ‘.St
Hi-*
as
f'H
w.
\ir*
-v..:
"i*.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the interests
ol its clients will receive every safeguard and attention.
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
j this experience and
_obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
Write for a free explanatory booklef.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F, H. Way (Chairman)
Dr. C. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
(V ice-Chairman )
A. E. Bond J. R. Faviell
F. B. Fleming G. B. Kater
Manager: tV. L. Shaw
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary: Chief Trust Officer:
P. H. Andrews M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.ICM.IS
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
JJCRIP of the private trading banks has
all the essentials of a sound equity,
with long-term prospects of gradual
accretion of both capital and income
through new share-issues and/or lift in
the dividend-rate. To help support
continued expansion of its lending
capacity, provide for the erection of new
premises and modernisation of old ones,
and widen its services,, which extend far
beyond making advances to credit-worthy
borrowers, which is the prime function
of the banks, the C.B.A. issued in July,
1953, 2,105,868 new 10s. ords. at a
premium of 7s. 6d. each. But it was not
enough. So those on the register at June
16 last were offered a further 2,105,868
new 10s. ords., this time at a premium of
ss. each, payable in full July 29.
The last issue will raise paid capital
to £6,223,222—£2,117,350 is in £lO 4 p.c.
prefs. (cumulative to 3 p.c.) and the
balance in 10s. ords. —and strengthen
reserves of £526,467 of share-premiums.
The pref. div. and 10 p.c. to the ords. will
then call for £495,281, or £59,106 less
profit than was claimed last term. Share-
premiums, however, make 10 p.c. worth
only 6.7 p.c. on the last new issue, as
against 5.7 p.c. on the 1953 new issue
and 5 p.c. on new issues before that.
Anticipating that future benefits are
likely to be widely spaced, the market
prices the f.-p. 10s. ords. at 18s. 6d.
(20s. 6d. a year ago) to return 5.4 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis, with prospects of a
bit better later on. The £lO prefs. at
£7 14s. yield 5.2 p.c. on a 4 p.c. distribu-
tion. Net tangible cover, including the
last new issue, is £47 9s. lOd. prefs. and
19s. 4d. ords.
Although Australia’s overseas trade-
balance causes concern, and looks like
becoming a recurrent problem, its
internal prosperity continues at a high
level. The chief impediments to faster
growth have been shortages of skilled
labor and some raw materials rather than
financial stringency. Certainly the banks
have had to draw a tighter rein on some
classes of credit because of their own
liquid position; but the restriction has
been qualitative rather than quantitative,
and the effect has been to moderate, not
cut down, the growth of healthy trade
activity. For the second year in succes-
sion the C.B.A.’s advances have grown
at a faster rate than deposits, which have
been turned over more rapidly. But
earning-power, which has been limited by
central-bank controls and the high level
of costs, has not risen proportionately to
the growth of activity.
For the year to June 30 last the co.’s
declared net earnings increased by
£54,166, reaching £ss4,3B7—that was
after allowing £757,841 (down £6019) for
taxation and something for con-
tingencies :
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 334,796 10 p.c. = 200,000 35,000 2,390,944
1951. . 336,012. 10 „„ 200,006 35,000 2,407,262
1952.. 340,563 10 „ ~200,000 45,000 2,418,131
1953.. 421,345 10 „ ~200,000 125,000 2,429,782
Share premiums, £750,000 .. .. 3,179,7'82
1954.. 500,221 10 p.c. = 268,150 135,000 3,192,159
1955.. 554,387 10 „ ~305,293 50,000 3,306,559
*ln addition, there has been a regular preference
dividend of 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
The ratio of profit to average ord. capital
(after paying the pref. div.) was 15.4 p.c.
as against 15.4, 16.8, 12.8, 12.5 and 12.5
p.c. back to 1950. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the year’s
profit was a moderate 6.5 p.c. The bulk
of the profit still appears to come from
investments.
Trade and other developments influ-
enced balance-sheet figures in this way:
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Preference .. 2,117,350' 2,117,350 2,117,350
Ordinary .. 2,000,000 3,052,934 3,052,934
Reserves .. 2,429,782 3,192,159 3,306,559
Notes .. .. 5,102 5,102 5,102
Deposits, etc.*.. 177,282,772 185,435,597 190,414,198
Other banks .. 23,668 436,290 3,023
Pinal divs. .. 142,347 189,467 194,994
184,001,021 194,428,899 199,094,160
Liquid assets . . 58,620,495 56,327,197 55,471,826
Special deposits
central bank.. 34,548,000 35,648,000 '28,748,000
Advances . . 87,388,435 99,052,262 110,648,088
Bank premises.. 3,444,091 3,401,440 4,226,246
184,001,021 194,428,899 199,094,160
* Includes bills, provision for taxation and other
contingencies.
The year’s expansion of £11,595,826 in
advances and addition of £824,806 to the
book-value of premises were accompanied
by a growth of £4,978,601 in deposits,
contraction of £855,371 in free liquids
and reduction of £6,900,000 in the special
account with the central bank. This
special account is in the nature of a
reserve, which is increased or decreased,
at the discretion of the central bank, to
help damp-down inflationary trends and
to cushion the effects of emergency
developments, such as the recent drain on
overseas funds, due to heavy imports and
the fall in wool and wheat prices.
With a lot of new plant coming into
operation as the result of investment in
industry’s fixed assets, the outlook for
production remains bright. Thq danger
is that wage-rates will rise faster than
physical production, and so create a state
of creeping-inflation, and all the financial,
economic and social ills that go with it.
Much will depend upon the level of export
incomes, especially wool. In any event,
the demand for bank accommodation is
likely to be such that the qualitative curb
on credit will remain.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
‘CEW equities rank higher in the invest-
A ment category than scrip in a sound,
old-established and progressive insurance-
office, like the Mercantile. Among the
attractions are a policy of profits-alloca-
tiOn which ensures strong reserves, with
consequent high earning-power in rela-
tion to share capital alone, and, at inter-
vals, increases in the amount distributed
as dividends and/or other benefits.
The Mercantile’s div., steady at 9 p.c.
for the nine years to 1946, climbed by
annual steps to 12£ p.c. in 1949, and has
remained steady since, with a 2\ p.c.
bonus added in 1953 to commemorate
the co.’s diamond jubilee. Meanwhile a
one-for-one new share-issue at a
premium of 50 p.c. in 1951 lifted capital
to £1,000,000, the last £121,928 of which
was gathered during the year to June
30, 1955. The- share-premiums, how-
ever, make 12£ p.c. worth only 8.3 p.c.
on half the capital.
There is nothing at the moment to
suggest that shareholders might be asked
for more in the near future, or that an
issue of bonus-shares is likely. Interest
therefore centres mainly in prospects of
a lift in the dividend rate. The market,
which expects a slightly better return
than it did a year ago, sums up the posi-
tion by pricing the f.-p. £1 shares at
60s. (695. a year ago) to give an immediate
return of only 4.1 p.c. on a p.c. div.,
or 5 p.c. on a n 15 p.c. distribution,
which appears to be within early reach.
Last term the net return from invest-
ments alone was £26,328 stronger at
£117,448. At the same rate of growth
the net return from this source would
equal 17 p.c. on capital two years hence.
Trading profit for the year from all
sources was £262,910 (up £44,708):
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends—— N serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
1951. .141,372 12} p.c. = 62,500 78,872 883,630
Share premiums, £250,000 .. .. 1,133,630
To unexpired risks, £163,000 .. 1,296,630
1952. .147,674 12} p.c. = 78,125 69,549 1,366,179
To unexpired risks, £87,000 .. 1,453,179
1953. .215,040 15 p.c. =112,500 }g2 i 545 719
Provident fund, £lO,OOO 1 92,540 1,545,719
To unexpired risks, £lOO,OOO .. 1,645,719
Tax overprovision, £30,000 .. .. 1,675,719
1954.. 218,202 12} p.c. = 97,656 120,546 1,796,265
Profit sale assets, £103,174 .. .. 1,899,439
To unexpired risks, £150,000 .. 2,049,439
1955.. 262.910 12} p.c. =117,188 145,722 2,195,161
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks, £910,000 at
30/6/’55.
Of the £262,910 of profit, equal to 26.2
p.c. on capital, £145,462 (up £18,380), or
14.5 p.c., came from underwriting and
the other 11.7 p.c. from investments.
Maintenance of the div. at 12£ p.c. left
practically the whole of the underwriting
surplus available to swell reserves, which
also benefited by a windfall profit
of £103,174 on sales of assets.
Reserves were thus lifted to £2,195,161,
of which £910,000 was earmarked for
unexpired risks. This latter provision was
equal to 42.2 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums, which is more than is usually
considered adequate for the purpose. -
The underwriting side of the business,
which is confined to the Commonwealth,
continues to expand, the growth in the
year’s net premium income being
£339,709:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
£ £* £/
1952.. 1.431.000 648,784 516,576 45.3 p.c. 36.1 p.c.
1953.. 163 714,581 634,032 45.2 „ 40.1 „
1954.. 1.813.913 950,302 636,529 62.4 „ 35.1 „
1955.. 2.153.622 1,061,629 796,531 49.3 „ 36.9 „
The bigger business cost an extra 365.
p.c. to put on the books, but the loss was
625. p.c. lighter. The gross underwriting
surplus was £295,462 (up £68,380), of
which £150,000 (up £50,000) was sent to
the reserve for unexpired risks. It was
an encouraging performance considering
the still-unsatisfactory nature of third-
party and motor-vehicle risks.
When the co. moved its Victorian head-
quarters / from 1 Queen-street to 108
Queen-street, Melbourne, in March last,
the firstnamed property was sold at
auction for £130,000. The co. now owns
39 properties throughout the Common-
wealth, which stand in the books at
£877,666 (up £52,910 last term), and are
worth a lot more:
1953. 1954, 1955.
Paid capital .. £750,000 £878,072 £1,000,000
Reserves .. .. .1,545,718 1,796,264 2,195,160
Sundry creditors.. 1,305,345 1,548,595 1,601,841
Tax reserve .. 191,500 112,000 132,000
Final divs. .. 65,625 60,781 62,500
£3,858,188 £4,385,712 £4,991,501
Freeholds, etc. .. 768,755 824,756 877,666
Mortgages .. 122,514 134,893 142,588
Govt. securities,
shares, etc. .. 2,423,857 2,847,130 3,279,214
Book debts .. 383,019 460,200 592,608
Cash, etc. .. 160,043 118,733 99,425
£3,858,188 £4,385,712 £4,991,501
The year’s growth of £432,084 in Gov-
ernment securities augurs well for the
return from investments. Financially
the position is a strong one from both
policyholders’ and shareholders’ points
of view.
William Adams & Co., Ltd.
/CONTINUED growth, high earning-
power and strong reserves remain
the outstanding features of this old-
established organisation, which specia-
lises in distribution of a wide range of
electrical equipment and other engineering
and hardware lines, as well as in pro-
duction of steel reinforcements, etc.
Activities are spread throughout the Com-
monwealth, an office in London looks
after overseas buying, and a wholly-
owned subsidiary, William Adams Trac-
tors Pty., handles the Tasmanian and
Victorian franchises for the Caterpillar
Tractor Co. (U.S.A.), which were
acquired some four years ago. ,
The £725,000 of share-capital—
£455,000 of it, together with £90,000 of
share-premiums, was put up during the
five years to 1951—had the support and
assistance of £900,224 of visible reserves
at April 30 last. The div., steady at
10.1 p.c. for the 11 years to 1948, was
lifted to p.c. for the two following
terms, and to 15 p.c. for the five years
to the close of last accounts, with com-
fortable margins. Since 1950, £543,750
has been distributed in dividends and
£501,381 added to reserves out of sur-
plus earnings, while inner provisions
against any sudden fall in inventory
values and against possible bad debts
have not been neglected, either.
And capital expenditure on additional
storage and other facilities for handling
the expanding business is now nearing
completion. These include extensions to
the structural-steel works at Alexandria,
near Sydney, erection of a new steel-store
at Brisbane and construction of two new
tractor- and service-stations, one in Vic-
toria and another in Tasmania. Also the
Australian offshoot of the American
tractor co. is increasing the locally made
component of its product, which should
help mitigate the effects of import-restric-
tions and exchange difficulties. Alto-
gether the outlook for shareholders is
rosier than at any time since the co.,
and others in the engineering trades, ran
into difficulties during the early 1930’5.
Last term the co.’s turnover increased
in all States, and so did that of the tractor
offshoot. After allowing £45,920 (up
£12,132) for depreciation and an unstated
amount for taxation, etc., net earnings
of the parent and its subsidiaries increased
by £32,106:
r- 1 Dividends ,
Pref. To Be- Be-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£/ £> &£t£/
1960.111,078 1760 12.8 p.c.= 68,229 61,099 398,843
1961.190,728 876 16 „ ~108,760 81,103 479,946
1952.195,749 16 „ ~108,750 86,999 566,945
1953.176,291 16 „ ~108,750 67,541 634,486
William Adams and Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidation, £8543 .. 643,029
Tax overprovided, £26,535 .. .. 669,664
1954.200,-686 15 p.c. =108,750 91,936 761,600
Added insurance reserve, £4682 .. 766,182
Tax overprovided, £lO,OOO .. .. 776,182
1955.232,792 15 p.c.=108,750124,042 900,224
The £232,792 of profit claimed, which
excludes £4682 dropped into the insur-
ance reserves and £lO,OOO overprovided
for taxation in the previous year, was
32.1 p.c, on capital as against 27.7, 24.3,
27, 26.3 and 23.1 p.c. back to 1950.
These ratios, together with the size of
reserves and the way the business is
shaping, give the 15 p.c. div. a comfort-
able appearance, and encourage share-
holders’ hopes of future benefits.
The continued growth of the undertak-
ing is further reflected in its capital
structure:
Parent Consolidated
Only. Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £725,000 £725,000 £725,000
Beserves .. .. 634,486 761,500 900,224
Overdraft .. .. 355,208 360,681 503,164
Creditors* . . 703,471 758,004 914,899
Final divs. .. 65,250 65,250 65,250
£2,483,415 £2,670,435
Freeholds .. .. 322,128 354,784 377,920
Plant, etc. .. 114,178 141,197 165,341
Stocks .. .. 1,245,958 1,202,220 1,432,583
Book debts .. 716,926 888,697 1,058,322
Cash, etc. .. 84,225 83,537 74,371
£2,483,415 £2,670,435 £3,108,537
* Including provision for tax and contingencies.
To meet net additions totalling £447,268
to freeholds (up £23,136), plant, etc. (up
£24,144), stocks (up £230,363) and book-
debts (up £169,625), the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £142,483 and added
£156,895 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc. The net working
capital, or more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,081,963), increased by £91,444. The
two most vulnerable items, stocks and
book-debts, appear less an inner reserve
in each case.
The market prices the f.-p. £1 shares
at 58s. 6d. as against 525. 9d. a year
ago and 495. 6d. 12 months before that.
The immediate return at 58s. 6d. is 5.1
p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is visibly 445. lOd.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages to be gained
by placing your Insurance in the care
of an experienced Firm of Insurance
Brokers and Supervisors.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance BroTcers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445.
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts., H. V. La wry,
Sydney. Manager.
,) The wedding anniversary
\ present my wife will
never forget
M '
4
Easyfo saw
a
I
M
me
m
wm
■
m
WSSh
“I’m no carpenter but I turned an old kiteben into a modern kitchen
full of cupboards, using Timbrock. I even made that snack bar which
the children love! Including paint, the cost ran out at less than £10!!”
Check these money-saving features of Timbrock
Easier to work. Splinterless, grainless. Use ordinary carpenters’ tools.
Flexible. Bends around corners, modern fashion.
Finest paint surface. A glass-smooth pressurised finish that takes
every type of paint beautifully.
6 inches wider than other hardboards—4' 6"—a monev-saver for
interiors, this width fits standard 18" studding, no wasteful cutting.
Five lengths s', 6', 7', B', 14'. Handy short sizes available also.
White-ant proofing is standard with Timbrock.
CNR
TIMBROCK . natural wood made better
Made by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division:
Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO LESLIE WILLIAM ELLY.—TAKE
NOTICE that TASMANIA ADELINE
ELLY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2074 of 1955 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is
asking for the execution of the Court’s
discretion under Sl9 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 17th
October 1955 and obtain a copy_ of the
Petition without charge from K. W.
DRAPER, Solicitor, of 14 Spring Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Incorporated in New South Wales.
Board of Directors:
EDWARD R. KNOX, Chairman. DOUGLAS R. LTSAGHT, Deputy Chairman.
ROBERT J. VICARS, ERNEST W. STREET, GREGORY B. EATER,
ALEXANDER H. DICKINS.
General Manager: A. S. OSBORNE.
BALANCE SHEET ON 30tH JUNE, 1955.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting
to be held at the Head Banking House, 343 George Street, Sydney,
on Tuesday, 23rd August, 1955, at noon precisely.
liabilities!
Capital—
Authorised £12,000,000
in 480,000 shares of £25 each.
Issued —480,000 shares of £25 each £12,000,000
Less: Reserve Capital of £l2/10/- per share 6,000,000
Paid up 6,000,000
Reserve Fund (wholly used in the business of the Bank) 5,000,000
Final Dividend proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
Total Shareholders' Funds 11,446,827
Deposits, Bills Payable and other Liabilities, including provisions for contingencies .. 199,609,165
Notes in Circulation 13,491
Balances due to other Banks 1,149,964
£212,219,447
£11,000.000
270,000
176,827
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers £12,217,606
Money at Short Call in London 1,031,250
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia 34,400,000
Cheques and Bills of other Banks and Balances with and due from
other Banks 8,471,992
Treasury Bills —Australian Governments 7,500,000
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills) —at or below market value
(including £4,000 lodged with Public Authorities)
Australian Government Securities 30,136,349
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit 13,286,913
£105,044,110
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting provisions for debts considered
bad or doubtful) ... 102,925,556
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites —at cost, less amounts written off 1,828,298
ah other Assets 2,421,483
£212,219,447
D. R. LTSAGHT l™ E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
E. W. STREET [Directors. a. S. OSBORNE, General Manager.
AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet and annexed Profit and Loss Account and compared them with the
books at the Head Office and with the Returns from the Branches. In our opinion the Bank has kept proper
books of account so far as appears from our examination of those books. We have not visited the Branches of
the Bank, but proper returns adequate for the purpose of our audit have been received therefrom.
We have obtained all the information and explanations we have required. In our opinion the said Accounts are
properly drawn u 9 so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs according to
the best of our information and the explanations given to us, and as shown by the books of the Company.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Company is required to keep by the
New South Wales Companies Act 1936 or by its Articles have been properly kept.
H. W. MACKISACK ) Auditor*.
Sydney, 19th July, 1955. MACQUARIE COWPER f Aualto^
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st December, 1954, at the rate of 8 per
cent, per annum, paid on 21st January, 1955 * *38,314
„ Transfer to Reserve Fund ok non
„ Reduction of Bank Premises Account ao.uuu
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows:
To Dividend for the half-year ended 30th June, 1955, at the rate of
9 per cent per annum qo*
« Amount carried forward 446827
£860,141
By Amount brought forward from 30th June, 1954 i £232,845
„ Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1955, after payment of all expenses of
management (including Directors’ Fees, £ 7,000) and provision for taxes and
for rebate on current bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits, and for bad
and doubtful debts and other contingencies •
627,298
£860,141
D. R. LTSAGHT ) Directors
E. W. STREET J Directors.
E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
A. S. OSBORNE, General Manager.
RESERVE FUND
1955
June 30 To Balance (wholly used In the business of the Bank) carried forward .. £5,000,000
£ 5,000,000
1954
June 30 By Balance brought forward from 30th June, 1954 £4,850,000
1955
June 30 „ Transfer from Profit and Loss Account ........... 150,000
£5,000,000
Howards, Ltd* (Brisbane)
'T'HIS old-established and ably-
A handled motor trader has a
capital of £208,533 entrenched
behind £807,426 of visible
reserves, and a comfortable
financial structure. Also the 20
p.c. div., an annual event since
1950, is moderate in relation
to net earnings, which averaged
£124,438, or 58.6 p.c. on capital,
over the last six years.
It is not surprising therefore
that the market prices the f.-p.
£1 shares at 81s. (70s. a year ago
and 595. 12 months before that)
to give an immediate return of
4.9 p.c. on a 20 p.c. distribution.
Net tangible cover is 975. 6d., and
assets are known to be worth
more than their book-value. The
investor at 81s. who looks for
a shade over 6 p.c. on his money
counts on the div. rising to 25
p.c., or, say, a two-for-one issue
of bonus-shares and a 10 p.c.
div., which would then call for
less than half last term’s declared
profit.
The backbone of earnings is
the co.’s Nuffield franchises,
which include Morris, Wolseley
and Riley cars, as well as com-
mercial vehicles and tractors,
and cover the whole of Queens-
land and the Northern Rivers of
N. S. Wales. The new motor-
vehicle assembly - plant at
Hendra and new service-station
at South Brisbane are now in
full swing and making a satis-
factory contribution to net earn-
ings. Other agencies include
Electrice, Coldflame and West-
inghouse refrigeration and elec-
trical appliances. The Westing-
house franchise was acquired last
term, and has yet to make its
full contribution to earnings.
Also a building and adjoining
vacant land were recently bought
at Logan-road, South Brisbane,
where a used-car sales section is
to be set up.
Over the last 18 months busi-
ness in the motor trade has risen
to the previous record level of
1950 again, as the following
comparison of average monthly
registrations for all motor-
vehicles in Queensland shows:
Year. Year.
Dec. 31, Vehicles. Dec. 31, Vehicles.
1950 .. 2525 | 1953 .. 2012
1951 .. 2304 I 1954 .. 2521
1952 .. 1723 | 1955* .. 2549
* Six months to June 30, 1955.
For the six months to June 30
last, Morris cars accounted for
10.3 p.c. of total Australian new-
car registrations as against 7.7
p.c. for the corresponding period
of 1954.
For the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts Howard’s
gross earnings (£709,398) in-
creased by £117,600, exes.
(£461,864) by £74,404, and tax-
provision (£107,400) by £32,400,
leaving the net result £10,796
stronger at £140,134:
Net Re-
June, Profit. .—Dividends—'* • serves.
£ £ £
1950. .124,811 20 p.c. = 27,818 404,439
1951. .150,407 20 „ ~41,707 613,139
To staff fund, £25,000 .. 488,139
1952. .102,479 20 p.c. = 41,706 548,912
1953.. 99,461 20 „ ~41,706 606,667
1954. .129,338 20 „ ~41,706 694,299
Assets revalued, £i4,700.. 708,999
1955. .140,134 20 p.c. = 41,707 807,426
The £140,134 was equal to 67.2
p.c. on capital as against 62.7,
47.7, 49.1, 72.1 and 89.7 p.c.
back to 1950. The lushness of
these ratios is due largely to the
size of reserves. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s profit was
13.7 p.c.
The already comfortable finan-
cial position further strengthened,
the growth in the more-or-less
liquid surplus ’(£772,430) being
£93,631:
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £208.533 £208,533
Reserves .. .. 694,299 807,425
Creditors .. 327,762 227,344
Unearned interest 47,399 30,815
Tax provision .. 144,769 181,553
Staff funds ... 25,000 25,000
Final divs. .. 41,706 41,707
£1,489,468 £1,522,877
Freehold .. .. 206,915 228,960
Plant, etc. ■. 17,128 14,568
Stocks .. .'. 758,822 569,899
Book debts, invest-
ment, etc. . . 508,162 682,743
Cash, etc... .. 3,441 126,207
£1,489,468 £1,522,377
A better flow of vehicles enabled
stocks (in at cost or under) to
be reduced by £188,923, and
£100,418 was clipped off the
amount coming to sundry
creditors, while book-debts, etc.,
increased by £79,581 and the
holding of cash, etc., by £122,766.
Following dispatch of 70 tons
ore tb the treatment-plant at
Rum Jungle at the end of last
month, Australian Uranium
Corp., which took over N.U.D.’s
uranium leases on the Adelaide
River (N.T.), was told to cease
deliveries. “This followed assays
of grab samples which revealed
the ore to be below acceptable
grade,” A.U.C.’s board says. This
70-ton parcel came from a dump
of 400 tons of unselected pros-
pecting ore, some of which was
known to be below average
grade, the co. says. What puzzles
shareholders is why the manage-
ment should dispatch a 70-ton
parcel without first making sure
that the stuff was of acceptable
grade. Until it is realised that
grab samples can never be relied
upon as truly representative of
large parcels disappointments of
this kind will continue to occur.
The board claims that the
remainder of the dump is of
“undoubtedly superior grade,”
whatever that might amount to.
Arrangements have now been
made to deliver to Rum Jungle
a 500-ton parcel, which is to be
mechanically sampled “as pre-
viously arranged.” Some morfths
ago the co. whooped about
“probable” and “possible” ore
totalling 160,000 tons, estimated
to average 0.4 p.c., or better,
uranium oxide.
* * * *
For the year to March 31 last
Great Western Consolidated
(paid capital £1,768,000), one of
the Western Mining Corp. group,
operating near Bullfinch (W.A.),
treated 421,144 tons (up 1015
tons) ore for 56,6280 z. (up
54850 z.) fine gold, an average
of 2.69dwt. The profit was
£32,631 (up £18,183), or 1.8 p.c.
on capital. At March 31, 1954,
ore reserves at the Copperhead
were put at 431,000 tons in the
quarry, 'averaging 2.3dwt., and
292,000 tons underground,
averaging 4dwt. Apparently ore
from the open-cut is still yield-
ing poor recoveries, because
when mixed with the 4dwt. stuff
from underground the lot
average is only 2.69dwt. How-
ever, better appears to lie ahead.
The first drill-hole into the
northern series of the Copper-
head at No. 14 level disclosed
27|ft. of ore averaging 9.7dwt.
per ton. And the cores of two
drills into the footwall of No. 4
level at Frazer’s mine, Southern
Cross, averaged 11.5dwt. over
Din. and 67.1dwt. over 70in.
respectively. The co.’s f.-p. 10s.
shares, which had dropped to
3s. lid. in 1954, recently fetched
ss. 9d.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Girls in gay national costumes were
programme-sellers and guard-of-honor
at the King’s Theatre when the Governor
and Lady Brooks attended the gala film-
premiere in aid of the United Nations
Appeal for Children. The facade of the
theatre was floodlit and hung with the
flags of member-countries of U.N. A
large United Nations flag dominated the
stage, and in the foyer were branches of
lemon-tree, masses of blossom and spring
flowers, the gift of Madame T. Liu, wife
of the Chinese Consul. The vice-regal
pair were received by Mrs. Givon Parsons,
wife of the U.S. Consul, and Mr. G. V.
Hake, managing-director of Paramount.
Lady Brooks wore a fairytale gown of
white lace threaded with silver and a
white Arctic-fox cape-stole. Mrs. Henry
Bolte, wife of the Premier, wore pastel-
pink duchesse-satin with bead-embroidery
on the strapless bodice. Delphinium-
blue embroidered satin was the choice of
the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. F. P. Selleck.
Mrs. Givon Parsons’s graceful frock was
of aqua-blue satin-brocade. French Con-
sul M. le Bas de Plumetot’s wife wore
garnet-red satin-brocade. Madame Liu’s
white satin national gown had a replica
of a large tree embroidered in green
satin across the slim skirt.
Judging from the hats shown at the
Anne Collins collection, yellow is to be
the color of the season: from the pale
tone of the buttercup, wattle and daffo-
dil right through to the vibrant, strong
yellow of the mango. Other shades are
the soft-pinks, pale-ice-blue, crisp greige
—a mixture of grey and beige. Green
has become softer and black is still
elegant. The snow-white hat is pro-
minent and Jacques Fath (with other de-
signers) has made a bid for navy, either
on its owh or teamed with white.
For the first time in many years Anne
Collins has sponsored very fine paribuntal
and balibuntal straws. Jerseys, striped,
shaded or patterned in soft Paisley design,
and organzas patterned in apple-blossom
were also used. Pedal-braid, intricately
sewn or beautifully embroidered, fash-
ioned a number of delightful hats.
The Breton is the most successful shape
of the season ; Jacques Fath’s Matelot is
one made in fine white Baku. It has as
its sole trim a narrow band of black
ribbon and is finished with a smart black
veil. The shell-cloche and -bonnet are
still popular, and the flower-toque is a
“must” for the smart woman. Madame
Vernier is represented with a toque com-
pletely covered with lifelike cherries.
She made this hat specially for the
Duchess of Kent to wear to the Derby.
The large hat is back again. One black
crinoline “halo”-hat, turned back from
the lace and designed by Paulette, was
considered the most outstanding hat seen
at the recent Grand Prix in Paris and was
flown out for the collection.
Other gems: Fath’s. picture-hat made
of 16 layers of black tulle and called
Marie-Louise ; Jean Barthet’s Elizabeth,
a lovely large hat made in the new French
Paisley sheer-jersey, its flattering undulat-
ing brim lined in white-stitched straw;
a miniature “tambourine” hat by Svend
made entirely of coiled green organdie
stems; a fantasy-tulip shaded in mag-
nolia and yellow-centred in front; two
charming toques for cocktail-party or
theatre by Fath, one a white satin forte
with bands of crystal jewels woven round
the edges, the other of iridescent crin-
braid tightly coiled with a fantasy-rose
placed across the brow.
* ☆ ☆
The Premier’s wife, Mrs. Henry Bolte,
was guest-speaker at the annual meeting
of the South Yarra Auxiliary held at
Toorak Mansions, one of the very com-
fortable homes run by the Y.W.C.A., for
which this auxiliary does such splendid
Mr S . T. C. Rentoul, president
of Y.W.C.A. in Victoria, was present
with two other representatives, Miss
Woodward and Miss Joyce True-
\°l e - _P r i° r to the meeting Mrs.
John Carrodus, a member of the
auxiliary-committee, entertained at lun-
cheon at Chevron the president (Mrs. E
Fauser), Mrs. George Eustace and Mrs.
J. B. Cordner. Incidentally, a service of
thanksgiving by Y.W.C.A. will be held at
St. Paul’s Cathedral on September 16,
the same day on which a similar one will
be held in St. Paul’s, London,
At a reception given by retiring U.S.
Naval Attache Capt. Robert Macpher-
son, Mrs. J. A. Gage (whose husband,
Capt. Gage, is the new Naval Attache)
wore a beautiful topaz-mink cape-stole
over a black cocktail-frock. At the
reception were the Premier and Mrs.
Bolte (she in black frock, a tiny pearl-
trimmed black velvet hat and ermine
stole), the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. Frank Selleck),
U.S. Consul-General Givon Parsons and
Mrs. Parsons, U.S. Consul J. Wieden-
myer and his wife, Mrs. “Bing” Molyneux
(in red velvet coat and matching velvet
cap), Mrs. Harry Cavenaugh (wearing
black frock and small beaded black velvet
hat), and Mrs. Earl Daum (a mink jacket
going with her black ensemble).
* ☆ ☆
Xavier Rowing Club reaped a nice
contribution towards their new boatshed
when a very energetic committee orga-
nised a dinner-dance at the Royale Ball-
room on their behalf. Committee-presi-
dent Robert Chappell and his wife
received the guests, she wearing a gown
of French-blue satin, with a twist of
pastel-pink satin highlighting the bodice,
and with the skirt overlaid with white
tulle finished with sequins. Mrs. John
Kelly’s short, A-line frock was of
emerald-green satin ; another member of
the committee, Mrs. Harry Sinn, chose
pastel-pink satin. Among the dancers
were Mrs. Peter Metzner, whose tan-
gerine tulle bouffant frock had a finely-
ple(ated skirt and pearl embroideries on
the bodice; Mrs. Ley Forsyth, her short
frock of azure-blue satin; and Mrs. W.
Calanchini in garnet-red satin, the skirt
featuring a long side-drape.
June Dally-Watkins, lovely Sydney
model, here wears a gem from the Anne
Collins collection. Designed by Maud
et Nano, it is named Babette, a smart
sailor-hat in white straw. Its only trim-
ming is a tailored mount of the straw,
and it is finished with a fine black veil
embroidered with white daisies. Photo
by Ray Leighton.
A distinguished audience at the first
night of “The Merchant of Venice” at
Her Majesty’s was headed by Sir Dallas
and Lady Brooks, the Governor’s lady
wearing a lovely full-skirted gown of
white-and-gold brocade under a white
Arctic-fox cape-stole.
Also in the vice-regal party were Col.
R. H. Spraggett and his wife, her gown
being of royal-blue chiffon. The
Premier’s wife chose a graceful gown of
grey satin, the bodice encrusted with
pearls and sequin-embroidery. The Lady
Mayoress (Mrs. Frank Selleck) wore mist-
blue chiffons and a grey Arctic-fox cape.
Mrs. Frank Tait s gown of honey-beige
taffeta was worn under a full-backed
black satin coat.
Mrs. Ronald Marriott’s powder-blue
self-striped satin gown had the strapless
bodice sewn with sequins; Mrs. Ronald
Nott’s white satins were worn with a
short theatre-coat of pastel-pink satin:
Mrs. Gavin Flanagan’s short full frock
was of pale-gold, coin-spotted faille:
Mrs. Dorothy Gitsham wore with her
flamingo-pink taffeta frock (which had a
full harem-hem) a fully-pleated coat of
pink organza ; Mrs. John Carrodus’s white
silk-taffetas were patterned in soft-pink
and grey; Mrs. Pamela Holland’s frock
of midnight-blue tulle had a long torso
and was massed with blue sequins. Mrs.
Royden Honeyman wore cream nylon-
tulle with appliques of cream guipure-lace
on the bodice arid skirt; Mrs. Constance
Day wore shot-green taffeta, and Mrs.
John Newton white faille and lace.
SYDNEY
The new season’s hats, which
blossomed in shop-windows throughout
town during the week, are surprisingly
and delightfully of the wide-and-
wonderful type with those shady and
romantic brims which have been a rarity
for so long. Moreover, they are decor-
ated with roses and ribbons and (coupled
with the daffodils in the florists’ windows,
the strawberries on the barrows, the
wildflowers in Kuringai Chase) make the
rustle of spring clearly audible above the
whistle of the cold west wind.
Lyndall Iceton, who is the daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. Sydney Iceton, of Parra-
matta, has chosen St. James Church for
her marriage to Peter Roberts, of
Elizabeth Bay, on November 5, as it is
the church in which her parents were
married. Lyndall recently graduated
as a sister from Royal Prince Alfred
Hospital. Her photo is by Norton-
Trevaire.
Dame Mary Gilmore, whose 90th birth-
day was celebrated on Tuesday with a
party organised by the Fellowship of
Australian Writers, has until recently
refused to have her biography written.
“It is one’s work that matters,” she says,
“not one’s life.” Yet, even regarding
Dame Mary’s wonderful contribution to
Australian literature, together with the
inspiration, encouragement and help she
has given to so many young writers over
the years, one cannot but admire and
praise the rich, full life she has lived. At
a recent press conference Dame Mary
spoke for over an hour and a half, and
as she touched on ideas related to litera-
ture, education, colonisation, personalities
and anecdotes which brought other days
and distant lands to life, One saw in her
the distillation of great times of discus-
sion and action, and one saw, too, how
fine a thing a vigorous mind and a high
heart may make from a long life.
# # $■
At the Trocadero the Returned
Soldiers’ League drew 1200 people to its
Victory Ball, when the Governor, accom-
panied by Mrs. Russell Nash in a
romantic white tulle - and - lace dress,
received 16 debs, nominated by various
sub-branches. The girls looked really
lovely in their white dresses with tiny
coronets of tuberoses and little apple-
green tulle parasols, the spokes of which
were outlined in white flowers. Youthful
ballerinas held arches of apple-blossom
to form an archway for the debs., and
afterwards formed a tableau as the debs,
unfurled their parasols and did a formal
old-fashioned dance with their partners.
The heads of the three Services were
present, welcomed by the ball-president,
Mrs. William Yeo, in blue brocade, with
Mr. Yeo. In the official party were Mr.
and Mrs. Eric Bennett (she has just
retired after seven years as State presi-
dent of the central council of the
women’s auxiliary), Mr. and Mrs. N. B.
Freeman (she in a model gown of cream
Alenfon lace over black), Mr. R. B. Nott
and Mrs. Nott (she in sunset organza),
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Harris, Colonel E. O.
Milne and Mrs. Milne (herself a yeteran
of World War I, and making at the ball
her first appearance after a long term in
hospital).
The junior committee working for the
Black and White Ball disguised them-
selves as bodgies and widgies, convicts
and barristers and suchlike fierce wild-
iowl when they went along 150 strong to
“Pruniers After Nine” at Double Bay for
a night of “Law and Disorder” on Thurs-
day. There was a lot of fun and no great
disorder. Dick Bentley judged the
costumes and awarded a prize to Sam
Walder, and another to Mrs. Colin Ryrie,
who seemed to be an attractive, cherubic
Annie Oakley, but she may have been a
f'i i k e rifi'. Gordon Chater, with Lance
Mulcahy, sang “Pierre of Balmain” and
Can the Elizabethan Trust Trust You?”
Beth Campbell (who did the organising)
and her sister Jill wore red-and-black
satin and all the sparkles that go to
make up a Diamond Lil of the 1920’5;
Anne and Laurie le Guay were a “spiv
and his moll.” There were bogus legal
eagles, one with his hair in curl-pins, but a
genuine Crown Prosecutor in the person
of John Nolan seemed to regard the fun
with a bland and tolerant eye. The pro-
ceeds of the party will go, through the
Black and White Ball, to thr Royal Blind
Society.
& 3f> q.
At the Town Hall in the Lady
Mayoress’s rooms one of the first of the
season’s mannequin-parades was held in
aid of the Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund,
although Mrs. Hills herself was unable
to be present (she is suffering from fibro-
sitis and has had to miss several functions
during the past fortnight). There was a
touch of spring in the pots of primulas
along the mantelpiece and in the hats
designed by the McDougall brothers.
Mrs. “Midge” McDermott modelled the
furs by Ungar, and some delightful
musical items by Julienne Croft and
Geoffrey Chard made the afternoon
doubly pleasant. Mrs. C. M. Guiney
welcomed the 80 guests, and Mrs. Harry
Twigden, who had arranged the musical
programme, was co-hostess.
☆ ☆ ☆
There was a good deal of activity in
art-circles during the week with the
opening of the Australian Watercolor
Institute’s annual exhibition at David
Jones’ (opened by Daryl Lindsay) and
the Society of Artists’ show at the Educa-
tion Department’s Gallery, at which Sir
Eugene Goossens spoke the introductory
words. At both exhibitions there were'
gratifying little plates under many paint-
ings to say they’d been purchased by the
National Gallery of this, that and the
other State ; the directors of these gal-
leries were very fortunately in town for
a conference, and did a bit of shopping
while in Sydney. Women were well repre-
sented at both exhibitions, 26 showing at
the Watercolor and 55 at the Society of
Artists’.
❖
The death of Madge Elliott during
the week brought sadness to those many
Australians who thought of her, from
their girlhood memories, as the epitome
of grace, beauty and romantic charm.
Although she was brought up in Too-
woomba (Q.), it was in Sydney that she
made her debut with J. C. Williamson as
a dancer at the age of 15, and it was
here that she met Sydney’s own Cyril
Ritchard, whom she married at St.
Mary’s Cathedral in 1935. Their happy
marriage over nearly 20 years while they
were becoming world-famous in London
and New York was an inspiration and a
joy even to those who knew them only
from the newspapers or across the foot-
lights, and the death of their only baby
in 1939 was felt as a personal sorrow by
thousands of Australians. Madge Elliott
was 57 when she died, a woman with
unforgettable blue eyes and a grace of
body and spirit which will remain in
many memories for years to come.
* ☆ ☆
The Aisling Society heard a very enter-
taining lecture from Father N. McNally
during the week on “Some Irish Clan
Families of Australia”—though one
should not refer to it as a “lecture,” as
Father McNally was particular to request
that he should be regarded as “seancus”
(pronounced “Shanachie,” apparently),
or storyteller, one who increased the sum
of knowledge of those around him while
decorating his discourse with anecdotes
to make it less formal.
The Clan Families mentioned included
the Wentworths, the McCaugheys, the
O’Connors of Tasmania, the Osbornes,
the Byrnes and the Caseys. Father
McNally proved himself a very accom-
plished seancus and the evening was most
enjoyable.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOI* $
OSUJJJtVAK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
JAXVh” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
*OLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
( “NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
JOURNALIST WANTED
“The Bulletin-” requires the ser-
vices of a competent journalist, with
political and general experience, for
staff post. Must be able to sub.
and fill-in where required, and to
have an appreciation of clear and
expressive writing. Under 40 pre-
ferred.
Apply, “Journalist,” Box 2531,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Missing Friend
TO WILLIAM RYALL formerly of
Richmond Hotel 22 Parramatta Road
Camperdown in the State of New South
Wales but now of parts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife GLADYS
IRENE AMY RYALL has instituted pro-
ceedings against you for a Divorce on
the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court at Melbourne in
the State of Victoria on or before the
10th day of September 1955 and file an
answer in the said office on or before the
20th day of September 1955 the suit may
proceed in your absence. —W. B. & 0.
McOUTCHEON, of SI Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
The connoisseur's word
for smooth, mellow
perfection
in
nL
Wff;
V,
mi
tlosprrAk
ZSor r
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
jj§J
RAN
HOSPITAL
FOR 90 YEARS
T8T.47.1S
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Sydney Stage
An English critic who lately
complained that London had
fewer than 40 stage-shows to
offer, whereas the number offer-
ing in Paris ran into three figures,
would probably say unprintable
things about the Sydney stage
with its bare half-dozen shows.
At that, however, the stage in
Sydney is better than it has been
for quite a while, and there’s
a pleasant night-out offering at
any one of the theatres —comedy
(“Simon and Laura”) at the
Royal, drama (“S epar a t e
Tables”) at the new Elizabethan,
opera at the Empire, operetta at
the Phillip-street Theatre, and
variety at the Tiv. and Palladium.
Rattigan’s “Separate Tables”
was reviewed here during its
Melbourne run and, if it isn’t
as entertaining as the same
author’s “The Sleeping Prince”
(with which the Elizabethan
Theatre opened), it at least gives
a cast of distinguished players
ample opportunity to strut their
stuff.
Mr. Rattigan presents a couple
of problems in the lives of resi-
dents at the Beauregard Private
Hotel,' near Bournemouth (Eng.).
The play divides itself neatly into
two halves, the first half, “Table
by the Window,” introducing an
ex-docker, ex-Socialist M.P.,
now living in boarding-house
obscurity after a spell in prison
for beating-up his wife and a
policeman.
His wife (model, drug-addict)
has tried a second marriage,
which also ended in divorce, and
tracks him down to the boarding-
house, presumably with the in-
tention of having a second go at
life with him. Each seems to
have an instinctive need of the
other, but their personalities still
clash as explosively as ever ; Mr.
Rattigan can find no solution
to their problem except to leave
them together, apparently still
sitting on the edge of a powder-
barrel.
The problem in the second
half of the play concerns a
boarder whose repressions mani-
fest themselves in his posing as
an Army major and in his nudg-
ing strange women in cinemas.
Discovered, the poor devil’s
facade crumbles, leaving him
more-or-less mentally naked,
and Mr. Rattigan makes some
show of solving his problem by
pairing him off with a young
woman almost as repressed as
himself.
Rattigan sets his characters
down in craftsmanlike fashion,
but without any real depth of
observation, and it is left to the
players to breathe the real
human qualities into then}. Sir
Ralph Richardson does this sur-
passingly well, both as the ex-
docker and the major, and he
is so smooth, so detailed and so
unobtrusive about his business
that, once again, it is hard to
recall any visiting actor who
could beat him at it.
Meriel Forbes, first as the
fading model and then as the
gawping neurotic, shows a
similar degree of accomplish-
ment, and Dame Sybil Thorn-
dike has a magnificent night-out
with cultivated respectability
and superiority, through which
the essential vulgarity of the
character shows just often
enough, like a dirty petticoat. Sir
Lewis Casson plays a retired
schoolmaster with old-fashioned
manners and convictions, and
Daphne Newton limns the busi-
nesslike efficiency of the manag-
eress of the hotel both
excellently.
Sydney Tiv. presented a new
bill at the weekend —“Colored
Rhapsody.” It’s one of the best
Tiv. offerings seen in years—
and that’s saying plenty.
A second inspection of the
Phillip-street Theatre’s “The
Duenna” shows that its singing,
its dancing and its sparkle are
undimmed —a brilliant miniature
musical which shouldn’t be
missed.
“La Traviata”
The Italian opera company’s
third offering at Sydney Empire
was the best-set, best-sung and
best-dressed “Traviata” Sydney
has had for 40 years.
The setting of Act I, with
the candelabra-lit dining-tables
faintly visible through a lace cur-
tain in Violetta’s apartment, was
a gem of good taste. So were
the scenes in the courtesan’s
country villa and in her bed-
room for the death-scene.
Verdi’s score for the Dumas
story of the “Lost One,” the
Lady of the Camellias, is an un-
faltering flood of glorious
melody, an achievement he never
bettered in his long career, and
which he equalled only with
“Rigoletto.”
The bulk of the singing falls
on Violetta, and the role
demands a host of qualifications
—beauty of face and form, as
befits the current toast of Paris ;
grace of manner and a flair for
wearing beautiful clothes; a
voice with a beauty to match
that of the music; and the
ability to act. And Gabriella
Tucci has all these in the fullest
measure.
In the entire range of opera
there is no more exacting piece
of uninterrupted lyric and
coloratura singing as is con-
tained in the recitative “E
Strano,” the rhapsodical “Ah,
Fors E Lui,” and the recklessly
gay “Sempre Libere.” Signorina
Tucci’s singing of these was
memorable. And in the pathetic
duet with Germont (Afro Poli, a
commanding figure who gave
“Di Provenza” with true nobility
of baritone-singing) the soprano
used tone of melting beauty.
The Alfredo of the night was
Danilo Vega, a walking refuta-
tion of the allegation that the
Latin is a hot-blooded lover.
*** <4 ♦>
New Opera
At Sydney University’s
Wallace Theatre the one-act
op-era “A Dinner Engagement,”
by Lennox Berkeley, conducted
by Professor Donald Peart, who
brought it back with him from
England, was in all ways a
brilliant utilitarian farce.
The Paul Dehn libretto, in the
Pro Musica Society’s usual
generous, 19-page version, might
have been reprinted from today’s
“Punch.” Lord and Lady Dun-
mow, levelled by taxation, set
out to entertain the Grand
Duchess of Monteblanco, at
whose court his Lordship was
envoy-plenipotentiary 25 years
before. In the kitchen of their
Chelsea flat, with Mrs. Knee-
bone, who has contracted to
serve for 2s. 6d. instead of her
usual 3s. a day, they are prepar-
ing a dinner.
The libretto, which looks flat
enough on the page, comes to
brilliant life in the performance ;
a stroke of wit and humor every
minute. Mrs. Kneebone, as
Margaret Wortley plays her, is
indeed a treasure ; Marie Tysoe,
as the sensible English daughter,
Susan, who does not care to be
“soignee” to charm the Duchess’s
gourmet-son, Philippe (Ereach
Riley), is delightful; Neil Easton
and Heather McMillan, as Lord
and Lady D., get every ounce
of humor out of the action, from
the musical recipe for baked-
tomatoes to explaining to the
Duchess (Jacqueline Talbot)
that what she takes for an
amusing kitchen-decoration (she
has never seen a kitchen) is, in
fact, a kitchen. Besides the
musical recipe, there is a.quartet
in which Lord and Lady D.
detail their weekly household-
duties, an aria on cherry-soup, a
duet on a smoking oven, and a
somewhat fugal septet-finale in
which the errand-boy (Kevin
Terry) rejoins the commotion to
demand payment for the
groceries.
The music which brings these
matters to life is also modern
and utilitarian —nobody is likely
to be heard singing extracts from
it, and yet without it the whole
thing would collapse. The per-
formance shared this feeling of
the rightness of the parts: scene,
effects, make-up and acting of
a standard which in Sydney so
often surprises the visitor to little
theatres.
Alan Light, as the father, and
Arete Zantiotis, as the daughter
promising to give up coffee pro-
vided she might marry, made as
much as possible of the first
Australian staging of Bach’s
“Coffee Cantata,” which pre-
ceded the opera. They sang the
complex and formidable arias
with every gesture and expres-
sion extant. But they left one
wondering how such intermin-
able, such stupendous musical
circumlocutions could justify so
little story. Bach had 19 or
was it 39? childfjen, and as a
humorist was as heavy a father
as ever lived: one imagines the
children speaking with amused
affection of “Poppa’s com.”
Artbursts
Society of Artists
It is always both surprising
and pleasing to see the apparently
infinite variations which Arthur
Murch can play upon what has
become practically his single
theme for art: a Madonna of
the Renaissance changed into
a mother and child on a Sydney
beach.
Here it is again in the N. S.
Wales Society of Artists exhibi-
tion at the Education Depart-
ment galleries: “Yellow Light,”
a mother, a baby girl and a
small boy on a beach: slightly
modified —one has not seen the
boy with a fish before, or not
the same boy with the same fish
—but essentially the same pic-
ture that he has painted a
hundred times. And it is charm-
ing.
More than that, firmly
modelled and as suffused with
light as it is suffused in the poetry
of a mood, it is beautiful; and
if one singles it out from so
large, mixed, uneven and
vigorous an exhibition it is
because of a notion that a picture
is not just a decoration, not
some lost soul’s struggle shout*
ing upon the wall, but an ex-
perience with which you live in
tranquillity and harmony, and
which, however long you live
with it, never loses its first
mysterious enchantment; and,
put to make so strict and perhaps
narrow a choice, one would far
sooner live with “Yellow Light”
than with any other painting
in the exhibition.
The next choice, though it is
a pity he left his sky so opaque
and gloomy, would be Lloyd
Rees’s enormous “Volcanic
Landscape,” for the superb
rockiness of its rocks —an im-
pression which most artists find
it very difficult to convey, and
which, formidable as it may be
beside the Murch, has its own
poetry of the massive and endur-
ing earth.
For the rest, there are a great
many pictures worth looking at,
and it is quite impossible to do
justice here to them all. A few
which might be mentioned are
John Passmore’s “Prawn Boat,”
E. A. Harvey’s “Rock Fisher-
man,” Jean Appleton’s “Land-
scape,” Douglas Watson’s
“Grape-pickers,” Margaret
Preston’s “Fish and Blackboys,”
Alison Rehfisch’s “Roses,” Carl
Plate’s “Harbor,”, Adelaide
Perry’s “Arrangement” (of
hippeastrums), Nora Heysen’s
“Rose of Sharon” and Grace
Cossington Smith’s “Still Life
with Boronia.”
Watercolors
There is very little of the light
and spontaneity of life in the
annual exhibition of the Water-
color Institute at David Jones’
Gallery, Sydney. Three or four
scenes by Rah Fizelle look as
though they have been freshly
captured, and the same might be
said of John Eldershaw’s “The
Afternoon Light,” Ronald R.
Fletcher’s “The Fruit Seller,”
Margaret Coen’s flowerpieces
“Purple and Gold” and “Deli-
cate Bouquet,” and Dora Jarret’s
quick impressions of London and
Italy.
G. K. Townshend’s “Farm-
yard” has a lovely depth and
light behind the trees and old
cart if you stand back far
enough from it; Kenneth
Mac Queen’s “From the Home-
stead” is impressive in its cold,
glassy washes; Yvonne du
Moulin gets some warmth into
“Bare Trees, Wamberal,” and
“The Twisted Pine, Wamberal” ;
Alan Gamble’s “Russell Place”
is quietly effective'; and the
more striking of the oddities in-
clude the leaning lacework of
Imre Szigeti’s “Snow” and the
prismatic brilliance of Kenneth
Jack’s landscape and Margo
Lewers’s abstracts.
❖ * <s►
George Lawrence
George Lawrence’s exhibition
at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, is rather what one might
expect, and that is both com-
mendable and disappointing—
commendable because the artist’s
torrid colors and touches of
smoky clrama are not without a
certain impact; disappointing
because one always likes to see
a little more than is expected:
a flash of something fresh; a
broadening of technique or of
vision.
There are faint signs, how-
ever, in some of the near-country
landscapes, that Lawrence may
be moving into contact with
Nature—“ Cliff Walk,” “Land-
scape” (two of them), “Sand
Dunes, Centennial Park,” and
“Jamberoo Landscape” all show
hopeful hints that a finer lyricism
may yet be distilled from the
present rumbling metropolitan
richness.


The White Cottage
IT was the only home Clement
had ever known—the small
wooden cottage painted an
unrelieved white, standing
in one of the quietest avenues
of the iron-roofed town set on
the rim of the mountains.
He looked forward eagerly to
each school-vacation, when he
could leave the dormitories and
discipline behind him and catch
the train from the city that
would take him back to the
cottage and to his Aunt Lettie
and Aunt Isa, who always made
a fuss of him. If they had had
their way they would never have
sent him to the big boarding-
school in the city, he knew ; but
they did not have their way—
not in that matter; there was
something called “the terms of
the will” which prevented them.
His father and mother, whom
he only vaguely remembered,
had been rich, and when they
were killed in the motor-car
crash—he had been miracu-
lously the one survivor, he was
told; so young he was not
aware of his survival—their
money was held in trust for
him. By “the terms” Aunt
Lettie and Aunt Isa received a
certain amount to look after him
till he was of school-age and
thereafter a little less to keep
him during vacations. His
education was in the hands of
Aunt Esme, and she it was who
decided, in the face of the tears,
anger and disapproval of her
two country sisters, that he
should go to the boarding-
school.
While he was at school he
visited Aunt Esme each weekend.
She lived in an apartment in the
heart of the city, and although
he liked her, her apartment was
never so friendly or homely as
the white cottage, in spite of the
fact that Aunt Lettie and Aunt
Isa were given to quarrelling,
and very often did not seem at
all happy. He knew neither of
them 'thought Aunt Esme was
a nice person. She was the
oldest and the clever one of the
family. She had been a teacher
and had travelled in other
countries, and she wrote a great
deal for the newspapers.
He himself did not know what
to think of her at first, and
used to regard her with awe,
sometimes with fear, as she
walked back and forth in the
evening in her gloomy room,
which was fit only by a desk-
lamp ; she seemed then to have
no body, to be an ashen shadow
floating under a shawl. But by
the time he reached his last year
at school, the year when she
died, he saw with what wisdom
his father had allotted to her the
responsibility for his education.
She was worldly, independent
and sensible, as he imagined his
father, her brother, must have
been, and he remembered how
little he had understood her
when she had become cross at
his early bouts of homesickness,
of his pining for the swaddling
comfort of the white cottage.
“Stop that mooning around,”
she would say. “You’re here for
your good. We’re going to make
a man out of you. You must
learn to stand on your own feet,
young man. Some day you’ll
have to, so why not now? Get
me my album.”
“Yes, Aunt.”
With what speed he would
fetch the album! One of his
chief delights was hearing her
talk about her travels and seeing
the photographs she had
collected. He listened with a
special raptness when she talked
of South America, where she
had been a tutor for a Spanish
family, and he pleased her
greatly the evening he suddenly
said, “One day I’ll go there,
Aunt.”
She looked at him keenly for
a moment, her small-veined face
half-grave, half-amused, and
then said, nodding her closely-
cropped head, “Why, I believe
you will, Mr. Curious!”
Her death was an acute loss to
him. What knowledge he had
of his father and mother, and
of the trust, had come only
through her. She not only knew
a lot about the world; she was
frank, whereas Aunt Lettie and
Aunt Isa somehow were not,
and, although Aunt Lettie
seemed to aim at a wider view
of life than Aunt Isa, he could
not recall that either of them
had ever been away from the
mountain-town where they were
born.
But his affection towards them
was never the less for this.
Instead, when he was younger
and home on those happily-
anticipated vacations, his affec-
tion was the stronger for it; it
seemed a splendid virtue, hold-
ing in it the core of a security
he could always turn to, safely
walled-in in the everlasting
cottage in the avenue of clean
footpaths edged with laurel-
trees, with the red-brick church
blocking the near-end.
T'HE cottage was quite old,
A really, but it had been
patched-up from time to time,
so that the front-veranda rails,
on which Clement often used to
sit, shone like new teeth below
the cracked lip of the roof.
Two Irish pines neatly held
the green gate beWeen them,
and a narrow cement-path
bordered by bricks led to the
short front-veranda stairs, then
left round the corner past the
saltbush-hedge to the back-
veranda. Here, on sunny morn-
ings, when holidaying from
school, he would stand with
Aunt Lettie, beside her tall,
thin and angular figure dressed
in slacks, and enthusiastically
agree with her as, with her white
face smiling, she spoke of the
design and color of her back-
garden.
Aunt Isa, wrapped in her
large, sweeping house-gown,
which completely blotted-out
her short, contrasting figure,
would be there, too, but she
would appear to be day-
dreaming, or nursing her
arthritis in a very determined
sort of fashion, or if not, would
have a look of extreme annoy-
ance on her round, red face;
she would be angry with them
both, and this embarrassed and
puzzled him.
Aunt Lettie’s backyard was
about four times as large as the
front-, but it outdid for show the
crisp lawns and beds of pansies
and snapdragons that faced the
avenue through the green
diamond-wire of the front-fence.
Right at the very back was the
tiny enclosure for the bantams,
and one of Clement’s favorite
missions \yas to be asked to go
and collect the eggs. Down the
back-veranda stairs he ran,
the laundry and the oleander-
tree, along the quaint rambling
track that passed among long,
wide twin-beds of heliotrope,
phlox, larkspur, calendulas and
mock erica—Aunt Lettie had
taught him their names —then
between the straight rows of
lettuce, cabbage, rhubarb, celery
and spinach to the four orange-
trees which shaded the bantams
from the afternoon sun.
He always remembered, when
fetching the eggs, to be sure to
give them to whichever of his
aunts sent him for them. Once
when Aunt Lettie asked him to
collect them he had grandly
presented them to Aunt Isa, who
promptly and loudly said, “Ah,
that’s my good boy! ” But Aunt
Lettie was displeased and
snatched the eggs so abruptly
from Aunt Isa that she knocked
one of them to the floor and
broke it.
This accident made her speak
unkindly to Aunt Isa, and Aunt
Isa called her “stupid.” The
two of them quarrelled for a
long time over the matter, so in
the future he frequently just
placed the eggs on the table and
went away again.
Sometimes then he climbed
and sat on the fence-post, from
where he often talked to Mr?
By
David Rowbotham
Grieves next door ; Mr. Grieves
had found a snake among the
paspalum in his yard, and killed
it and showed, it to him, and
Clement helped him bury it; a
truly exciting event, marred only
by the warning later issued by
his aunts.
Aunt Isa was quite upset and
said almost heatedly, “For
heaven’s sake! If you love
. me”
“Oh, but I do! ” Clement
broke in hastily. “Don’t be
angry, Aunty.”
“No, no. I’m not angry,
darling. But don’t ever go near
that long grass.”
“Snakes are poisonous, my
dear. Don’t even play with
dead ones. I’m surprised at Mr.
Grieves teaching my boy
immunity from fear,” said Aunt
Lettie.
“Uh! You and your high-
sounding phrases,” Aunt Isa
responded, and limped
Aunt Lettie could answer.
Clement did not understand
what Aunt Lettie meant by
“immunity from fear,” but
supposed she knew what she was
talking about, because she taught
at a flash private-school for
girls in the town.
While Aunt Lettie was away
teaching, Aunt Isa would try to
keep-house as best she could,
but her arthritis crippled her so
badly that during the weekends
she gladly passed the unequal
task on to her stronger sister.
Clement always sensed that
when any of his own school-
holidays did not coincide with
those of the girls’-school where
Aunt Lettie taught, Aunt Lettie
was disturbed about going to
work in the morning and leaving
him alone with Aunt Isa. He
knew the hug she gave him
before leaving for the school
was well meant, but being a boy,
and wanting to be the man his
Aunt Esme in the city said he
would be, he tried to avoid it,
to no avail.
“Wait at the gate for me,”
she would nearly always say,
putting her arm round his
shoulders, “and I’ll bring you
something nice when I come
home.” All the time she would
be looking strangely at Aunt Isa.
“What does he need to wait at
the gate for?” Aunt Isa would
ask. “Go on along. I’ll look
after him. We’ll have a good
time, won’t we, Clement?”
Clement would answer “Yes,”
but timidly, feeling that every-
thing was not quite harmonious
and wondering why. Aunt
Lettie would plant a rough kiss
on his forehead and, with a
backward glance at Aunt Isa,
stamp up the hall to -the front
door. Once, at the door, she
turned and hissed an order at
her sister.
“Clean-up the house better
than you usually do. I’m bring-
ing guests back. In other words,
don’t loaf in your precious
parlor.”
“More of your queer friends,
eh?” Aunt Isa retaliated before
the door closed.
AS Clement grew up the more
aware he became of these
discordant intervals, and the
more he noticed their regularity.
What Aunt Lettie and Aunt
Isa failed to realise was that each
school-vacation brought to their
door not only a growing boy,
but a growing intelligence. To
them he was always their
“darling” or their “dear,” met
and lapped with the same affec-
tion he had known before
school-age, with a love that
made no allowance for his
maturity.
There was no change of his love
for them as a consequence, but
the observations he was able to
make distressed him sometimes,
just as the sensations of discord
he used to experience had
embarrassed or puzzled him.
He was still puzzled. He had
yet no more idea of why they
should quarrel than did any
other ordinary boy of why his
parents should argue or come to
harsh words; but he was learn-
ing their weaknesses, and
though the learning did not
alter the feeling of security and
happiness the white cottage gave
him, it was one of the things
unconsciously turning his
thoughts to questions outside the
province of the small world that
had fostered him.
He began, for example, to
think about what he wanted to
be or to do in life, and the day
when, in his last year of v/earing
knee-pants, he declared with
adolescent seriousness to his
aunts, “When I leave school I’m
going to South America,” he
shocked them into fearful
silence, for they realised he
meant what he was saying.
Aunt Isa began to cry softly,
and this eventually aggravated
Aunt Lettie into speaking. “Oh,
goodness! Stop the water-
works, Isa. And this, I suppose,
child, is the doings of your fine
Aunt Esme. What do you want
to listen to her talk for? Why
can’t you stay at home?”
“I don’t know, Aunty, and it’s
not Aunt Esme’s fault. I’d just
like to see a bit of the world
later on, that’s all, and I’ll be
eighteen when I leave school,
and that’s old enough.”
“Who says it’s old enough? I
certainly don’t. And where are
you going to get the money from
to go gallivanting about with?”
“From the trust. I get some
at eighteen and some more at
twentyone.”
“My God”
“Lettie, don’t blaspheme,”
interrupted Aunt Isa.
“Oh, be quiet! So Esme’s
even told you all about the
trust! She’s just too smart,
that one. Well, it’s ungrateful
of you even to think of leaving
home. I won’t give you my per-
mission to go. Get the idea out
of your head.”
There were tears now in Aunt.
Lettie’s eyes, so Clement bowed
his head, his fondness for them
both permitting him to say no
more. He excused himself and
left the room. Aunt Lettie took
a couple of tablets and went
domineeringly into her back-
garden. Aunt Isa made herse
a cup of tea and retired to brooc
in her parlor.
/ELEMENT thought not 1
fondly but a little mo
detachedly about his aunts tl
day, and even reached the sta
where he believed he cou
separate them into the
distinct individuals they we
within the single embraci
loyalty he bore them.
In his way he knew that Au
Lettie was the boss of the hous
hold. She was extremely acti
and might possibly have be
like those suffragettes he w
learning about in his histo
lessons; only he could not sa
that the suffragettes wore grubl
Donegal-tweed slacks as she di
He winced at the thought. SI
even wore them down the streei
she was wearing them now in tl
garden as she clumped abou
singing tonelessly at the top o;
her voice. But better the slack
he supposed, than that du
floral play-suit she wore som
times and which left her bac
and mid-riff bare, and alway
made Aunt Isa primly indignan
He much preferred to see he
dressed in the exotic frock sh
put on when she entertained he
foreign friends. Beforehanc
she spent hours in the kitche
preparing those unusual meal
for them. She was very prouc
of her cooking and specialisec
in “Continental dishes,” whic]
Clement himself did not enjoy
although Aunt Lettie’s guesi
always complimented her highl
on them, and on her wines
and on her knowledge of
mysterious subject known a
“European art.” She would ai
but preen herself, so affected
would she be by these flattering
remarks, and amid all the chatte
about art and life which th
company seemed to inspire, he
white face would almost glow
with excitement and pleasure.
Aunt Isa, on the other hand
sat and glowered, while Clement
silent and amazed, stared with
new wonder at this aunt of his
who spoke continually in a high
thread-like voice and laughec
with nearly a shriek at some
remark, perhaps her own, anc
slapped her thighs, and was
such an authority on pictures
She herself undoubtedly had a
flair for painting; there was the
picture of the flowers she had
“done in oils” and which hung
in the parlor—a “still-life” she
called it, and although he knew
nothing about art, Clement fell
she must be right when she told
him it was good. Aunt Isa
thought it was a “piece of
Bohemian tomfoolery.”
After these dinners, or parties,
or evenings, Aunt Lettie suffered
dreadfully ; the excitement wore
off and, especially on the next
morning, she was always
depressed or in a bad temper.
Then she took more of her
tablets and, oddly, accused men
for causing whatever trouble
there was in the world.
“Useless,” she condemned
them, with contempt. “Utterly
useless. The male of the species!
And don’t they think they’re
somebodies! Look, here’s one
coming ndw.”
Thus she might see the baker
bringing the bread to the back-
stairs, and go out and pick an
argument with him; the grocer
and butcher, too, sometimes
sampled the sharpness of her
tongue. On all such mornings
Clement and Aunt Isa kept well


1000 BUSHELS PER HOUR
That’s what the Mobilco Grain
Auger Elevator offers you!
PATENTS
PENDING
* Here's the new Grain Auger tha
MOBILCO, which brings to the Aus-
tralian Farmer all the advantages of
completely sealed, positive-power,
bevel gear transmission. Look it over
point by point, compare it with all
you've ever wanted in a wheat auger
and it's all there —speed, power,
lightness, strength, manoeuvrability,
reliability . . . they're all there in the
NEW Mobilco . . . and they will stay
there through a lifetime of trouble free
running. Yes, this season more than
ever, men who know will use Mobilco.
LOOK WHAT YOU GET WITH MOBILCO
Quick-change Extension Piece
Basic 20 ft. Model can be made into
24, 29 or 33 ft. lengths by adding
quick-fit extension pieces. Top section
of auger (above) can be fitted to bot-
tom to make long snout to fit deep
Into silos for emptying. Mobilco makes
a complete range of Augers from 20
to 42 feet ki length.
Engine Suspension
Strong steel cradle Is centrally sus-
pended for perfect balance. Smooth
action compensating device keeps
engine vertical at all Auger elevation
angles.
Positive Action Clutch
Hand lever action combines gentle take-up movement with
positive, slip-free final engagement. 4 stroke petrol engine
(5 or 7 h.p. according to Auger size) supplies all the power you
need. Engine starts easily. It is governed and runs for three
hours on one gallon of petrol.
Ratchet and Safety Catch Winch
Double handled winch with automatic safety catch holds auger
firmly at all elevations! Maximum vertical heights, ground to
output chute: 20 ft. model, 14 ft. 9 ins.; 24 ft., 17 ft. 9 ins.;
29 ft., 20 ft. 9 ins.; 33 ft., 23 ft. 9 ins.; 42 ft. model, 31 ft.
BAG AND BALE
ELEVATOR ATTACHMENT
See what you get with
Mobilco—two machines
in one ... a Wheat
Auger to work at har-
vest time and a first
class elevator to work
all the year round. It's
a big saving on farm
plant costs when you
buy two machines in
one.
NOT LONG TILL HARVEST
TIME. WRITE TODAY FOR
DETAILS OF THE NEW
MOBILCO. GUARANTEED
TWO YEARS.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN. PHONE YX 1244-5
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC.
BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH - - AGENTS:
TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
- PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
: LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
MOBIICO
out of range, until she brought
her mood to a full-stop with a
wild, savage bout of digging in
her vegetable- and flower-
garden, and then slouched
wearily to bed. But even from
bed she could be rather impos-
ing, and demanded attention and
sympathy ; just as, during the
winter months, with a cold and
cigarette-cough, she made many
similar demands on her doctor —
almost as* many demands, in fact,
as Aunt Isa made on her
doctor.
Aunt Isa’s doctor called every
Monday morning before break-
fast and rising-time to sound
Aunt Isa’s chest as she lay in
bed. Aunt Isa prepared herself
for these visits with the same
interest as a young girl expecting
a call from • her young man,
tidying-up her room and arrang-
ing her long grey hair over the
back of the pillow.
The front door was left
unlocked for the doctor, and
Clement half awake in bed
would hear his car pull-up, the
green gate creak and his foot-
steps grind along the path. Two
doors would open and bang-
shut as if simultaneously, and
from somewhere in the distance
would rise the sound of murmur-
ing voices, the man’s hurried and
dominant; it was the comfort
for which Aunt Isa had been
awake and waiting since the
milk-van clinked its bottles as it
went slowly along the avenue.
At breakfasts on Mondays her
round red face quivered and
shone with satisfaction and she
raised the teapot and poured as
though she were pouring into
her cup some sure proof that
she, and not Aunt Lettie, was the
one in the household who should
have the most attention and
sympathy.
“There, now,” her manner
implied. “I’m the real invalid
here. If you don’t think so, then
all you have to do is ask that
lovely man, my doctor.”
Clement knew Aunt Isa’s
complacency on Monday morn-
ings annoyed Aunt Lettie
intensely. “If you’re supposed
to be so sick, then why on earth
do you keep on filling yourself
up with so much tea?... .Silly
woman! ”
Aunt Lettie had a point there,
thought Clement; Aunt Isa
once told him at length she was
so unwell these days that the
doctor had warned her she must
not drink tea excessively. But
she always drank at least ten
cups a day, and he clearly
recalled the time when, in a
mighty tantrum, she drank
twenty cups before sunset.
TT was the time Aunt Esme
came home with Clement for
a week’s holiday at the
white cottage. She came un-
announced, deciding only on the
spur of the moment that she
should “pay Lettie and Isa a
sisterly visit.” Clement had
never known Aunt Lettie and
Aunt Isa to look so crestfallen
as when they saw Aunt Esme
arrive home with him.
“What did you want to come
for?” he heard Aunt Lettie say.
“Don’t you see enough of him
for the rest of the year?”
“Quite enough,” answered
Aunt Esme, “but not enough of
you. I only hope you behave
yourself while I’m away.”
Aunt Isa burst-out laughing,
doubled-up in her parlor-chair,
her stiff, crooked hands not able
to make even a polite effort to
hide her wide-open, twisted
mouth. The sight reassured
Clement; Aunt Lettie and Aunt
Esme must be only joking, after
all. He felt relieved ; he had
thought they were being nasty to
each other. But Aunt Isa, he
remembered, did not laugh later
on when she asked Aunt Esme
for “mother’s skunk coat.”
“No, Isa. You know mother
wanted me to have that coat,
and don’t worry, I’m. looking
after it.”
“How do you know mother
intended you to have it? I’ve
got as much right to it as you.
Haven’t I, Lettie?”
Aunt Lettie muttered some-
thing about Aunt Isa and Aunt
Esme both having a “property
complex,” which Clement
supposed was another “high-
sounding phrase,” but one that
did have significance.
“My dear Isa,” said Aunt
Esme. “I’m the oldest of the
family, so that’s my right to the
coat. Be patient. It’ll be yours
when I die, and that might even
be sooner than you hope.”
“Oh! How can you say such
a dreadful thing, Esme! Why
can’t you let me have the coat?
You’re probably looking after it
too well. I bet you’ve got it
stored away with the silverfish
among all the rubbish you save
up.”
Clement was surprised to hear
Aunt Isa say this to Aunt Esme,
because he had often seen Aunt
Esme wearing the skunk coat;
it was one of her rarest posses-
sions and he could not help
noticing how well she wore it.
Neither did he think Aunt Esme
was the kind of person to store
things away; from what he
could tell she displayed things
rather than hid them.
Oppositely, he knew Aunt Isa
had a real habit of storing or
hoarding. Consider all those
postcards, photographs, old
newspapers, big, thick dishes
and cups, and silver knives and
forks that were crowded into her
room looking on to the front-
veranda and the avenue. She
sometimes took him in there,
and she would rummage in a
deep drawer, or the wardrobe, or
a trunk, to show him the doll
she used to dress when she was
a girl, or the old-fashioned
frock she said she wore when
she was out walking on Sunday
afternoons in the days when she
was young and pretty like Mrs.
Grieves next door.
“Don’t act like a spoilt child,
Isa. You can’t have the coat.
It’s mine, and that’s that. And,
after all, mother did leave you
and Lettie the house. Isn’t that
enough?” Aunt Esme said.
“Yes, for decency’s sake don’t
be covetous,” added Aunt Lettie,
siding suddenly with Aunt Esme.
“Oh, oh, oh! Everydne’s
against me!”
To Clement’s alarm Aunt Isa
held up her stiff arms like a
praying-mantis, and he was
afraid she was going to be
violent. She stood up from the
table quickly, bumping it and
making the bowl of flowers
shake, and shuffled outside,
where she went hobbling round
and round the backyard, return-
ing inside at last to sit in her
parlor with the teapot at her
elbow, just as she was doing this
very day because he had agitated
her and Aunt Lettie with his
remarks about wanting to go to
South America.
/ELEMENT thought of Aunt
lsa sitting in the parlor, and
he recollected that his liking for
the parlor seemed to disturb
Aunt Lettie as much as his
liking for the back-garden
disturbed Aunt Isa.
But both places were his play-
ground, though he was far less
boisterous in Aunt Isa’s domain.
He was not likely to damage the
furniture there if he did decide
to pretend he was an aeroplane ;
there was not enough of it, but
what there was seemed to
caution him.
There were the deep chairs
with cushions the same light
color as the thin but cool carpet;
they had bibs over their backs
which, Aunt Isa told him, were
“antimacassars,” and they faced
towards the fireplace and the
marble mantelpiece, and on the
mantelpiece were flowers in
painted vases, an old alarm-
clock, a silver ashtray, an ebony
lion and an ever-empty ink-
bottle, all standing on lace
doilies. Fitted against one of
the parlor-walls was the writing-
desk,' and against the opposite
wall, the telephone-table. Over
in the corner, near the window
with the blue curtains that
billowed out on to the saltbush-
hedge, was the bookcase,
shoulder-high, and with its
books so arranged that the first
name to catch the eye was
Kipling ; Kipling along almost a
whole row, in gold titles and
soft green leather-covers.
“Doting over that ridiculous
Imperialist again?” Aunt Lettie
would say when she saw Aunt
Isa dusting the books and pick-
ing out one of the green volumes
to fondle, or browse through,
for a while.
Aunt Isa would grow
querulous with indignation at
the remark and in defence of
her favorite author: “He’s better
than all your modern muck.
Heaven help those poor little
innocents you teach at school.
I suppose you feed them on
smutty foreign stuff.”
Aunt Lettie would wheel
(i Continued on next page )


Research in Industry
No. 16 of a Series
mm
m
m,
"Cjoing ‘Down ”
In I.CJ.’s factory at Billingham, England, there is a small lift. It
has no lift girl, but it takes its passengers 800 feet down through the
dark earth into a vast mine of anhydrite rock, a valuable mineral.
Billingham’s miners are extending the workings at the rate of an acre
a week for the factories on the surface, making sulphuric acid,
fertilisers and cement, require anhydrite as a raw material. When the
mine’s shaft was sunk in 1927, the mineral was won by hand, with
picks and shovels, but recent advances in the design of mining and
loading equipment have now enabled 1.C.1. to install new machines
that make the mine look like no other in Britain.
Through wide avenues of its workings lumber diesel and electric
machines, bulldozers pushing piles of stone, and loaders which fill
14 ton trucks in a few minutes. Scrapers level the roads, and com-
plicated hydraulic carriages simplify and quicken the job #f drilling and
charging new holes in the virgin rock of the almost limitless deposits.
In this deep underworld, too, are modern workshops with fluorescent
lighting; and a pit of 90 feet deep housing a full-scale rock-crushing
plant. There are bright, modern washrooms and even a tiled-floor
canteen with its own cinema. Modern developments have served to
make this mine, not only safe and productive, but also a pleasant place
to work in.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
iL.758.1810i
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
, AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878. \
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
. DIRECTORS:
ALLEN O. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
S'I’RUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. Ji. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches La ail States Agencies in all Country Centres
about with her nose in the air
and some parting remark about
“old-maid literature,” and Aunt
Isa would resume the tender task
of dusting her green volumes,
commenting as she did so on the
shortcomings of “arty-crafty”
people and saying Aunt Lettie’s
still-life was an example.
Besides the still-life, two
charcoal-drawings of cathedrals
hung on the walls, along with a
pencil-sketch of an Irish-terrier,
a sea-scene and an outdated
calendar. The calendar hung
above the fireplace, and, over
the years, had become stained a
little by smoke from the fire,
though the fire was not lit very
often ; the wood which Clement
fetched indoors from the pile
behind the laundry was used
sparingly, even when the cold
ridge-mists surrounded the white
cottage.
Aunt Lettie said she never felt
the cold, though she nearly
always had a snivel in the
severest months, while Aunt Isa
said the best way of all to keep
warm was with a hot-water
bottle. She closely treasured her
own water-bottle, which was
fitted into a woollen jacket much
the same pattern as the teapot-
cosy, and she bought a bottle
for Clement. She also bought
one for Aunt Lettie, arguing
that if only Aunt Lettie used it
she would not have to go to bed
so much and would therefore
not cause so much trouble and
run-up bills by calling-in the
doctor every time she thought
she was going to die; but Aunt
Lettie was angry with Aunt Isa.
“I’m no namby-pamby,” she
said. “Hot-water bottles! What
next! Of all things! ”
So Aunt Lettie’s bottle was
used as a warmer for the
chickens that were hatched in
winter. Clement derived a
peculiar thrill from taking it
down for Aunt Isa to the
bantam-enclosure and placing it
in the hatching-box by the back-
fence.
AUNT ISA’S hot-water bottle
seemed to be her only con-
solation, and her parlor her
only refuge on the day, the very
hot day, of Aunt Esme’s funeral,
and Clement, now looking
grown-up in his long-trousered
suit, seriously wished he had
thought to bring Aunt Esme’s
skunk coat home with him to
pass on to Aunt Isa, so hope-
lessly and helplessly flustered
with grief did she appear to be
in her deep-cushioned chair.
He believed the sight of the coat
might possibly have made her
less tremulous.
All the same, he was horrified
when Aunt Lettie, who behaved
more stoically, said without
warning, “All she needs to cheer
her up is that skunk coat. Stir
yourself, Isa. Anybody would
think you’re the one who’s being
spaded - away. Aren’t you
coming to the funeral?”
“No. God forgive you, you
terrible woman,” replied Aunt
Isa. “I don’t have to go to the
funeral to show I’m sad. Oh,
poor Esme. Poor Esme. I’m so
sorry I spoke like I did to her
about the coat. Are her things
being sent to us, Clement?”
Clement nodded his head and
did not know what to think
about hi? aunts’ reaction to the
death of Aunt Esme. Their
attitudes confused him and made
him wonder how other people
acted when their sister or brother
died. For his own part he tried
to be manly at the funeral and
not cry, but he did cry, feeling
wholly inadequate as the coffin
was carried to the graveside.
Aunt Lettie, in a pink-floral
dress, just stood and stared as
though unseeing into the grave.
It was the worst duty he had
ever known, back like
this with Aunt Esme to the
place where she had been born
and where in the end she wanted
to lie.
“With the family, Clement,”
was her request to him as he sat
sick and afraid at her bedside
in the city. “With the family.
And a mischievous smile
flickered in the depths of her
wizened, small, veined face —
and won’t your Aunt Lettie and
Aunt Isa be annoyed when they
have to come and lie with me
there. And, Clement”
“Yes, Aunt.”
“Go to South America, my
boy, if you want to. I think I’ve
made a good job of you, and
your father would be proud of
you. There’s my written per-
mission and that’s all you need.
And there are a few introduc-
tions to people I know over
there.”
“Thank you, Aunt. Oh,
Aunt —Aunty.”
“Don’t be sorry for me, lad.
And remember: your Aunt
Lettie and Aunt Isa love you
very much. So did I, but just
a bit differently. You’d better
go now. I want to sleep.”
“Yes, Aunt.”
Obediently he rose and went,
his heart loaded with indescrib-
able sensations of loss and
misery.
nrHE experience of his last
talk with Aunt Esme taught
Clement that perhaps it was a
similar feeling which made Aunt
Lettie and Aunt Isa, after their
protests, pleadings, lectures and
handwringing were over, for an
instant so subdued and fragile-
looking to the point of sudden
breaking age when, at that final
moment, a year later, he said
good-bye to them to do just
what he wanted to do, “to see a
bit ofi the world,” as he had told
them years before.
He said earnestly to them,
“The least thing of all I’d ever
want to do, Aunt Lettie, Aunt
Isa, would be to cause either of
you hurt. But believe me, I
couldn’t stay at home and be
honest to you or to myself.”
Aunt Isa trembled and
swallowed hard and made a
small sirenous sound in her
throat, her red face working,
and Aunt Lettie, who had
the snivels worse than usual,
blew her nose harshly.
“Just see you come back,”
se managed to say..
“I will,” he promised.
“And watch out for rattle-
snakes,” added Aunt Isa between
swallows and her gentle wailing.
Aunt Lettie turned on her.
“There aren’t any rattlesnakes
in South America.”
Aunt Isa broke off her wailing
altogether to retort, “There
would be if you went there.”
“Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear,”
said Aunt Lettie, giving a long
snivel in conclusion.
Clement left them quarrelling.
He went, sad to be leaving them
and the cottage, yet glad to be
sailing out into a new and adult
world.
He wrote to them regularly
from South America, and gradu-
ally, under the stimulus of his
youthful and wholehearted
enthusiasm for his adventure and
of his newsy letters, which he
addressed to them both, Aunt
Lettie and Aunt Isa became a
little more resigned to his being
away and eventually even took
considerable pride in relating
his activities and success to their
acquaintances, to Mr. and Mrs.
Grieves next door, and to the
baker and the grocer.
Indeed, they vied with each
other to speak of him to people,
as they vied with each other in
writing their separate letters to
him, and partly filled the gap of
his absence with an overwhelm-
ing talkativeness, and with the
constant hope for his early
return as the weeks, months, and
then the years, passed by.
In all other ways the habits
and tenor of life at the cottage
continued unchanged.
Clement kept them well-
informed of his progress and was
finally able to tell them he had
become manager of an estancia
owned by a Spanish don in the
Argentine.
“I am so very pleased about
your success, darling,” wrote
Aunt Isa; “but when are you
coming home to §ee me? I seem
to miss you so much more than
your Aunt Lettie does. My
arthritis is bad today . . .”
“This is all very well, dear,
and of course I, in particular, am
proud of you. But isn’t it high
time you turned up here again
to say hullo to your aunt? My
garden is lovely just now . . .”
wrote Aunt Lettie.
“Dear Aunt Lettie and Aunt
Isa,” Clement replied. “Thank
you for your letters. Never fear,
I’ll be home, and perhaps spon,
but I feel I shouldn’t leave just
when I’ve got such a good
appointment. It’s nice to learn
the souvenirs I send now and
then are getting through to you
safely, and they go to you with
my deepest love. I’ve just sent
off for you both a fine specimen
of a bolas. It’s what the gauchos
use here when they’re out herd-
ing. I’m pretty handy with it
myself by this. Last week I went
into Buenos Aires . . . .”
Clement’s letters did not re-
solve Aunt Lettie’s and Aunt
Isa’s fears, or their questions
as to when he would be return-
ing, and more often than not
Aunt Lettie and Aunt Isa would
be grieved about this for a while.
Nevertheless each of them sternly
contested the rights the other had
to keep any letter to herself.
“Isa, where’s Clement’s last
letter? Have you tucked it away
in your pillow-case again?”
“What if I have! You know
what Clement said in it was
meant for me more than you.”
“How idiotic!”
Perhaps Aunt Isa would open
the attack. “I’m going to tell
Clement on you, you selfish
thing. I wonder what he’d think
if he knew all his letters were
going into your box.”
“That’s perfectly unjust, Isa.
Anyhow, go ahead and tell, you
tittle-tat. There are a few things
I can say about you, too. Have
you done any sweeping at all
this week? Lazy creature!”
When the bolas came, Aunt
Isa was deeply mortified, for
Aunt Lettie learned to throw it,
almost —so she said—as ably as
Clement could.
“Oh?” said Aunt Isa. “Well,
look what you’ve done. That
orange-tree hasn’t a shred of bark
left on its trunk and you’ve
ruined all those beautiful red
flowers on the oleander. You
either can’t throw straight or
see straight if you ask me.”
“Nobody’s asking you.”
“And it’s not ladylike, either.
An old woman trying to throw
a bolas!”
“Don’t you call me an old
woman, you . . . you . . .”
Aunt Isa plugged her ears with
two crooked fingers and hobbled,
head down, into her parlor.
Since neither of them could
attempt to hide for very long
such an evident and awkward
object as the bolas, they corn-
promised, but not without first
stating to each other that neither
was giving way an inch.
The bolas was suspended from
its middle down the back-
veranda wall, close to the bath-
room, where it somehow had the
appearance of a double-headed
reptile, lifeless but fascinating,
with its eight-foot length of
twined thong weighted at each
end by the hard grey leather-
covered heavy balls, one of clay
and one of iron. Aunt Lettie,
in a blundering hurry, and Aunt
Isa, in moments of unbalance,
frequently set it rattling and
shuffling against the when
they bumped it as they opened
the bathroom door.
AUNT LETTIE happened to
be in the bathroom the after-
noon when the mail was late.
Washing her hair, she heard only
Vaguely the whistle of the post-
man as he dropped a letter into
the plain tin box fixed on the
fence beside one of the Irish
pines.
Aunt Isa' limped to the front
garden and felt around inside
the box. All about her the sun
was just turning the tree-
lined avenue into a soft, long,
luminous, almost alive thing, and
the windows of the red-brick
church were golden. Aunt Isa,
fumbling at and seizing the
letter, noticed that it bore the
familiar Argentine stamps, but it
was addressed in an unfamiliar
handwriting.
She studied the writing with
a mixture of perplexity and pre-
monition as she carried the letter
into the parlor. She subsided
weakly in her deep chair before
the empty fireplace, below the
ebony lion and the lace doilies,
on one of which now stood the
photograph of Clement in his
out-of-doors dress. She could
not bring herself to break the
letter’s flap.
Aunt Lettie, irritable at Aunt
Isa’s silence after she suspected
she heard the postman’s whistle,
tramped warlike into the parlor
from the bathroom, her hair
swathed in a towel. Quickly she
observed the letter lying un-
opened in Aunt Isa’s lap and im-
patiently she snatched it up, tear-
ing it open without a glance at
the writing on its face. She un-
folded the single page within.
“Oh! it’s not from Isa,
what’s this?”
“How should I know!” said
Aunt Isa plaintively yet fretfully.
“But it’s not from Clement. Is it
from Clement?”
“Ohoooooo.” The letter flut-
tered on to the light-colored
carpet and Aunt Lettie fell with
a moan into the nearest deep
chair, the towel around her head
coming undone and dangling
over the chair’s back. Her hair
wet the antimacassar as she
let her head rest heavily against
its spotless white; her face was
almost just as white, and she
stared dry-eyed and panting
across at Aunt Isa.
“Lettie, what is it?” Aunt
Isa’s red face was rubbery.
“What’s wrong? What’s wrong?”
Aunt Lettie shrieked, and as
she shrieked tears came; they
moved down her white cheeks
in spreading little deltas which
blotched oyer her wrinkles as
they spread.
“And they’ve buried him
there,” she screamed. “They’ve
had the hide to bury him there.
Now he can’t ever come home to
me. He can’t ever Esme!
Curse Esme and her talk! He
can’t ever . . .”
She staggered to her feet, her
hair, now devoid of the towel,
matted and mop-like. Clumsily
she stumbled towards her bed-
room, breathing with an asth-
matic sound and labor between
THE MOUNTAIN
A swollen grave? No, not a grave . . .
Merely a mountain without a mystery—
But, though you can see all of it,
There is always that part which can never be seen,
The inexplicable and evasive bit.
And if you move around to the other side
The same is there . . . around and around
Until you can go no further;
Here again is all of it and something else
That does not wake but sieems to stir.
Perhaps some ancient king sleeps,
And is a prisoner, in his huge Barrow;
But no king sleeps in this mountain—
Yet, I thought then I saw something unfold,
Or something open.
VICTORIA.
R. A. SIMPSON.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO TERRENCE RONALD WILSON late
of 21 Tantallon Avenue Amcliffe Sydney
—TAKE NOTICE that AMELIA OLIVE
WILSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 7 of 1953 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 17th October 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from BRADLEY MAUGHAN &
CUTLER, Solicitors, of 27 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SiDUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GERTRUDE JESSIE CROWE late of
49 Asling Street North Brighton Mel-
bourne Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that
ANTHONY HAMPTON CROWE has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1874 of 1955
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
28th October. 1955 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors, of 15 Bligh
etreet, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
The Tale of Two Motorists
on a Cold and Frosty Morning
Now, here’s a motorist
with nothing to smile about.
Starting his car these bitter
mornings is a nightmare.
Regular grade or ordinary
detergent oils just can't do
the job that VISCO-
STATIC does because
only VISCO - STATIC’S
special properties reduce in-
stant drag, safeguard your
battery and set entirely
new standards for easy,
cold-weather starting.
Here’s a happy, smiling
motorist. And no wonder.
Now he’s using Special
Energol VISCO-STATIC
Motor Oil it’s as easy
starting his car these cold
and frosty mornings as it
was during the summer.
The instant lubrication of
VISCO-STATIC sees to
that. Saves his battery ...
and engine wear, too.
{See graph below.)
Special Energol
VISCO-STATIC
Motor Oil keeps new
engines new, adds years
of life to a good used
engine and saves you
pounds on rebores and
engine replacement. It
is, however, recom-
mended only for new or
well-conditioned
engines. Start tomorrow
morning with VISCO-
STATIC ... and you’ll
be smiling too.
SPECIAL ENERGOL
VISCO-STATIC
MOTOR OIL
Sold only in or from scaled containers.
SPECIAL
ENERGOL
Marketed throughout Australia by
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd.
Special Energol VISCO-
STATIC Motor Oil and
a complete range of
ENERGOL premium
grade automotive oils and
ENERGREASES are
available where you see
these pumps.
U V 3 M JO SilNO
Wear during first 10 minutes
after starting from cold
Comparison of wear obtained with
Regular Grade oil, ordinary Deter-
gent oil and Special Energol
VISCO-STATIC motor oil. Wcaa
the high tensions of her shriek-
ing. Once inside the room she
slammed the door behind her.
Her towel lay untidily on the
parlor carpet, a few feet away
from the abandoned letter.
Aunt Isa sat on alone beneath
the photograph of Clement. Her
mouth shook, but she made no
sound and her eyes, dull and
barren of expression, were im-
mersed almost to vanishing-point
in the waves of shivering that
that swept her round face and
short arthritic body enveloped
in its voluminous house-gown.
She was gazing as though
pointlessly at the letter, and then
with a drawn mesmeric motion
she slid slowly out of the deep
chair and tumbled with a muffled
thump forward on her hands and
knees to the floor. On hands and
knees, whimpering with pain,
she began to shift her body in
a , sidelong crawl gradually
towards where the letter lay . . .
jUTR. GRIEVES next door was
-*-*-*- one of the first to observe
that the backyard of the white
cottage was deteriorating. The
vegetables and flowers were
dying and the earth was harden-
ing with the growth of weeds and
for want of water.
He was almost sure, too, that
the bantams were ill fed. He
thought about this, but decided to
mind his own business as he felt
the “old girls,” as he termed
them, would want him to do and
would no doubt quickly tell him
to do if he started to ask
uninvited questions.
The grocer, baker, butcher
and milkman likewise thought
about the change and the sudden
lack of any signs of life at the
cottage, but after a while they
became accustomed to the phe-
nomenon, and to the continually
closed doors and windows and
the scrawled notes and orders and
pink cheques or the cigarette-tin
of money on the back stairs.
They called, left their goods as
requested and paid for, and went
away again, relieved that they
need no longer expect hardy
encounters with “the tall one”
or lengthy time-wasting bulletins
about the latest doings of “the
nephew.”
After a while passers-by began
to notice that the front garden
was growing wild and, in their
puzzlement, sensed that the
cottage itself Was losing its
appearance; it did not seem so
cleanly white any more. At
widening intervals a visitor or
two would push open the green
gate and walk up to the front
door and knock, but receive
no response from within; the
more persistent callers would go
round to the back door, stepping
off the cement path where the
uncouth saltbush hedge poached
upon it, but have just as small
success there.
Finally no one came, except
the tradesmen and Aunt Isa’s
doctor. Only the doctor learned,
from Aunt Isa, the truth among
all the speculations as to what
had happened at the cottage, but
he kept the knowledge to him-
self, thinking that in time Aunt
Isa and Aunt Lettie would tell
others and feel better for doing
so.
“I wonder what’s up?” Mr.
Grieves said to himself, and then
with a shrug busied himself mow-
ing his lawn.
The principal of the girls’
school where Aunt Lettie taught
asked herself the same question
after she telephoned the cottage,
to hear, “Why I’m absent? I’ll
tell you why I’m absent. I’m not
working for you any more, that’s
why, or for Isa. I’ve resigned.”
There was a click in the prin-
cipal’s ear and she realised with
surprise that the receiver at the
other end had been put down.
“How dare you! How dare
you say that about working for
me! ” exclaimed Aunt Isa as
Aunt Lettie turned away from
the telephone table in the now-
darkened and musty parlor.
“How dare I? Because I’ve
always worked for you. I’ve kept
you. Now you can lump it. Oh,
Clement, my dear, dear
Clement!”
“Oh, oh. I don’t know how
you can let his precious name
pass your spiteful lips. He always
loved me best. My darling boy.”
“Did he! We’ll see about
that!” Aunt Lettie strode to the
mantelpiece where she grabbed
the photograph of Clement with
a rough hand. She rushed back
into her bedroom and there,
clutching the photograph,
climbed into bed, covering her-
self with the bedclothes, her eyes
red patches in her white face,
her hair straggling across her
forehead and along the edges of
the quilt.
Aunt Isa spent the larger part
of the day slumped in her parlor
chair as though lifeless, her Kip-
ling forgotten and a half-empty
bottle of hospital brandy at-her
elbow where once the cosied tea-
pot had stood. Sometimes she
made a crying noise, but there
were no tears.
Inside the cottage the floors
were not cleaned, tea-things
cluttered the kitchen sink, and
there was hardly a breath of air,
as if the cottage were hermeti-
cally sealed, a place where Aunt
Lettie and Aunt Isa buffeted each
other like incompatible atoms.
They simmered and whined
like their singing kettle and the
rooms seemed to be filled with
the torment of their divided
thoughts. Something separate
and magnified, and heavy and
hungering, appeared to have re-
doubled its weight upon each’s
existence, and under the burden
each saw cause to stare malevo-
lently at the other.
ON the night when the strong
wind blew down the
electricity-wires in the avenue
and the power was cut off so
that Aunt Lettie had to light the
kerosene-lamp, Aunt Isa could
not bear Aunt Lettie’s stare any
longer and said, “Why do you
look at me as if I was poison?”
“What an imagination you’ve
got! If that’s how you think I
look at you, perhaps you are
poison. I certainly wouldn’t call
you a tonic, anyway, sitting there
fiddling with that bolas. Are you
silly? It’s a wonder it doesn’t
remind you of what Esme did
to us, sending Clement away to
die.”
“It’s no concern of yours if
I want to look at it. It would
only get damp and go mildewed
if it was left out on the veranda
a night like this.”
“You’re acting like a two-year-
old. Clement would laugh if he
could see you now. Dear aunty
in the parlor snuggling up to
her skunk coat and nursing the
bolas! What a picture!”
Aunt Isa drew the skunk coat
more closely about her and held
the bolas more tightly. “You
couldn’t nurse anything, you flat-
chested thing.”
“Who’s talking! And aren’t
you tickled to death now you’ve
got your paws on Esme’s skunk
coat! Two of a kind, I’d say.”
“What do you mean?”
“Just what I mean. Give me
that. Clement sent it to me.
It’s mine.” Aunt Lettie jumped
across the room, like an animated
stick in the half-light and the
swaying shadows, and dragged
the bolas so forcefully from Aunt
Isa’s grasp that she hurt her.
Aunt Isa wrung her stiff
arthritic hands and her feet
moved up and down on the
carpet and for the first time since
the letter came she wept, with
a devastation and fury.
“You shameless mad woman,”
she cried. “You fake. You
obscene old hag, you. You’re
frustrated and crazy. You’re a
monster. A monster!”
Aunt Lettie, stung by the
words, swung one end of the
bolas at Aunt Isa’s face as Aunt
Isa sat shouting, and upright, in
the deep chair. The blow
knocked Aunt Isa’s head against
the antimacassar ; she raised her
hands in a late gesture of pro-
tection, groaned and closed her
eyes and crumpled into the chair.
All the color drained away from
her face, till her face was as
white as Aunt Lettie’s, which
looked, stunned and frightened,
down at her.
“Isa. Isa.” Aunt Lettie
dropped the bolas and shook
Aunt Isa by the shoulders ; the
skunk coat fell open, but Aunt
Isa was still.
“Isa. Do you hear me? Wake
up. Wake up. Oh God. God. I’m
sorry. Isa, wake up!”
Aunt Lettie’s breathing was
stertorous and her whole body
trembled as she leaned forward
and put her hand underneath the
skunk coat, feeling over Aunt
Isa’s heart. She straightened up
and walked round the room,
sobbing.
“I’ve killed her. I’ve killed
her. But I didn’t mean to. I
didn’t mean it. Oh, Clement,
what’ll I do? What’s going to
happen to me? I can’t stand it.
Help me, someone. Help me. I
don’t want any more of this.
No more. No, more.”
Aunt Lettie barged into the
kitchen, where she filled a glass
tumbler with water. .She only
half turned off the water-tap in
the sink and, like someone
drunk, she went, colliding with
corners and spilling water from
the glass, from the kitchen into
her bedroom, leaving the door
open. The soft suffusion of
yellow light from the lamp
flowed in, showing her figure in
tall silhouette throwing back its
head and washing down, one by
one, something which one hand
repeatedly tipped into the palm
of the other from a tablet bottle.
Aunt Lettie dropped the empty
glass tumbler and tablet bottle
to the floor and flopped on to her
bed. She gave out an enormous
sigh which slowly subsided into
a gentle sniffling and further into
silence.
Silence swirled and eddied
through all the rooms, like an
embodiment in the darknesses
of the wisps of black smoke that
licked the inner sides of the glass
of the lamp standing on the tele-
phone table in the parlor. Out-
side the cottage the wind whistled
and roared, but whistled and
roared as if remotely, not in-
truding on the silence within.
The kerosene in the glass bowl
of the lamp sank gradually
down.
AUNT ISA stirred in her deep
chair and slowly opened
her eyes, blinking painfully ; her
lips parted thin and constricted
in her pale face.
A mark much like a scald
stood out plainly on her fore-
head.
She gasped and began to
struggle. She did not appear to
know what had happened and
seemed unaware of the mark
on her forehead. She half rose
and fell back, half rose again,
supporting herself by one arm
on the chair. Her attitude was
one of numbness.
“Clement?” she called in a
cracked, almost inaudible
whisper.
“Clement?” she called once
more.
“Are you there? Clement,
where are you? Come here,
darling.”
She started to walk, tottering
precariously and pausing now
and then to place her hands on
her breast.
“I’m so lonely,” she said.
“Don’t leave me alone, darling.
Oh, I feel sick.”
She staggered against the
telephone table and endeavored
to hold on to it, but slid down-
wards, defeated, with her eyes
closed. The; telephone table
rocked, and the lamp, jarred off
balance, capsized; its glass
smashed and tinkled. The body
of the lamp rolled for an in-
stant with the naked wick-flame
spurting high and then fell like
a burning brand to the carpet.
MR. GRIEVES mistook the
running radiance at his bed-
room window and the loud
rustle outside for lightning and
the blowing wind in the trees of
the avenue ; but then the pene-
trating smell of smoke reached
him, along with a more defined
crackling sound,, and he was
aroused to alertness,
v “But it was too late even then,”
he said afterwards. “I tried to
get in, but the whole place was
locked. X broke a window, but
I could never have made it.
It looked like a furnace inside.
Poor devils, they never stood
a chance. They must have been
asleep.” .
The old, dry, white-painted
wood of the cottage burned like
tinder, its whiteness in places
showing momentarily brilliant
before being blackened per-
manently by the flames that lit
it and then ate it away. The
garden glowed as sparks arched
over it, and green fruit on the
orange-trees looked ripe for
picking. The bantams scrambled
in a noisy riot against their net-
ting and on the street front the
Irish pines quivered and bent
as the wind whipped them with
the singeing tips of the longer
flames.
The green gate became cinder-
hot. The galvanised-iron began
to buckle and curl from the roof.
An overwhelming heat, odorous
and anvil-hard, seemed to lift
the cottage and its garden high
into the air, consuming the
streams of the fire-hoses. The
saltbush hedge' shrivelled as if
it had been touched suddenly by
a withering breath. The oleander-
tree was all one red, and the
laundry caught at the flames,
contained them briefly, and
then released them in a flash
and roar that quickened its own
destruction. The blaze re-
sounded in the night across the
ridges and lit up the whole
avenue, transforming the red-
brick church into a spired cave
holding a thick hot mist of gold.
To the watchers the fire
seemed too sudden and fierce
ever to have had a beginning;
it drew them to its red pillar like
insects to light. And its ending
was as sudden as its appearance ;
it seemed to go out like a match,
leaving behind it charred ground,
heaps of smouldering grey ash,
lavatic coals and mixed-up
timber bitten and chewn to
pieces by the flames.
In the invading gloom, the
white cottage had entirely abdi-
cated its life and presence.
SOME days later two boys
fossicking among the rubble
behind the two stripped pines
found a strange object. It was
long, like a snake, and had some-
thing like a ball at each end.
It was burnt and stiff and twisted,
but they had much fun with it
by dragging it along the ground
behind them as they raced down
the avenue.


Fuilh hi tJtc
Fututrc
Florida! Such was the name the Spaniard
de Leon gave it in 1513 because he first saw it on
Easter Sunday (Pascua Florida, the Feast of
Flowers). How aptly he named it!
This is a garden comer of the world.
Under its surface is a limestone formation that
filters subterranean waters and lets them through,
ever so easily, to pattern the landscape in their river
flow. And Florida blooms from their springing.
Its international fame is as a playground, but
it adds more than palm-shaded beaches to the
colour of American life. Its fisheries, its agriculture,
its orchards, are all notable contributors to the
national economy.
This is the territory that the United States
purchased from Spain early in the 19th centuiy for
five million dollars—little more than would now
build one of the modem hotels that tower above
the beach at Miami.
Perhaps the most significant claim that
Florida can make in the current American scene
is in its programme of land recovery.
I knew of this before I came to the United
States on my present visit, and that is why I made
the journey down from Illinois to see just what is
being done here to put to work the asset of dormant
land.
The Florida Land Clearing Equipment
Company is making large-size implements such as
“rock rakes” that will clear and recondition waste
land. And the results are really impressive.
In this I see something of great importance to
Australia, where we must bring more and more
areas within the reach of new settlers by clearing.
We know what a blessing the insect Cacto-
blastis was to Australia in the 1920’s. It recovered
sixty million acres of land for us from the ravage
of prickly-pear.
I believe that the lessons to be learnt from
Florida now could assist Australia to millions more
acres of fertile soil—this time, with the use of
machines.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £l/16/-
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques,
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
The INCUBUS
BY NANCY KEESING
■yT HE temporary offices of
/ Harston’s Engineering
v j Co. were housed in a
single-story fibro build-
ing. It had been hastily erected
in 1941, when the pressure of
Government orders for war
equipment not only necessitated
the provision of extra factory-
space but also accommodation
for office staff of nearly four
times the fifteen souls who had
worked in Harston’s office in
1938.
For convenience the new office-
block was placed alongside the
original cement two-story struc-
ture which housed the old offices,
the boardrooms, testing-labora-
tories and show-rooms. This
meant that ventilation came only
from one side, and that side
caught great quantities of smoke
and fumes from a temporary
chimney serving a temporary
workshop. Furthermore, Har-
ston’s had undertaken the
assembly of imported machinery
—bulldozers, heavy lorries and
so forth—which required driv-
ing-tests, and for this purpose a
stretch of swampy land and
grazing-paddock adjacent to the
works was acquired, cleared,
drained and levelled out to be-
come a waste of sand from which
grit blew constantly in swirls and
eddies directly at the low-placed
office-windows.
Even with the windows shut
and electric-fans installed grit
and smoke found ways into the
poorly-constructed building. No
one denied that it was a filthy
place to work in: the outside
paintwork scarred and dingy six
months from its application ; in-
side linoleum floors scrunchy
underfoot two hours after a
scrubbing. However, the staff
seldom bothered to complain:
the men and some of the women
kept old coats to work in; the
fussier girls used, dusters several
times a day on chairs and desk-
tops, and the management were
as generous as possible in pro-
viding compensatory amenities
for their manpowered employees
who, if they couldn’t be sacked,
could not, either, leave for jobs
in less-repellent surroundings.
Before the war Harston’s had
employed a junior office-boy. By
1941, office-boys being extinct,
their places were taken by two
elderly superannuated employees
who had emerged from retire-
ment for patriotic reasons. One,
Dan O’Brien, had been a yard
foreman. He was a huge sham-
bling man of sixty-eight, bald as
an egg, but with sufficient red
hair on the backs of his hands,
sprouting from ears and nostrils
and forming an enclosing hedge
for his blue eyes, to show what
glory had once thatched his
skull.
The other, never known as
anything but “Mr. Pettifer,” was
a tiny wizened dark old fellow
who once, in the time of Harston
senior, long deceased, had been
a costing-clerk. He must have
been nearer eighty than seventy
and he looked so thin and feeble
that to see him go out into the
gritty wind was to experience a
qualm of concern lest if another
layer should be sand-blasted
from his hide he would disap-
pear altogether. Nevertheless,
apart from a mild asthmatic
tendency, he was remarkably
spry. Dan O’Brien showed an
astonishing protectiveness to-
wards Mr. Pettifer —he accorded
him a, politeness and considera-
tion that he gave no one else
in the office, the chief account-
ant, Mr. Collingwood, not
excluded.
Mr. Pettifer sorted and entered
mail, receipts and bundles of
yard-vouchers, and kept the
attendance-book in a fine regu-
lar hand, writing figures clearly
and indulging in flamboyant
twirls and scrolls of decorative
red ink. Dan O’Brien undertook
most of the outside-work and
hoisting-about of files and heavy
ledgers for the girls. Both men
shared the day-time cleaning of
the office : each lunch-hour
they swept and went over the
floor with oily mops in an effort
to keep down the dirt.
Mr. Pettifer seemed either un-
aware of Dan’s kindnesses, or
ungrateful for them. He fussed
at the other man’s uncouthness.
Tut-tutted when in summer Dan
discarded coat and tie, and
fretted on days when Dan for
some reason had cause to make
entries in his neatly-kept books
—Dan’s calligraphy was as
rough and generous as the man
himself and he always seemed
ill-at-ease when he found any-
thing as small and finicky as a
pen in his tremendous freckled
fist.
QNE thing they did have in
common, not only with
each other but with all other
members of the staff: a detesta-
tion of the head comptometer-
operator, Miss Elsie MacMillan.
Everyone occasionally became
discontented with the office: its
uninsulated extremes of hot and
cold, the vagaries of govern-
mental orders, its distance from
transport and, always, its dust.
But all the v others eventually
shrugged their shoulders and
resorted to one of the catch-
phrases of the time such as
“There’s a war on” or,
facetiously, “It all depends on
me!”
But: “It’s disgraceful. I can’t
see why we should put up with
it”; and “Wouldn’t you think
they’d . . .” and “Never, never
would I have dreamed I’d have
to work in such a low, filthy . . .
filthy . . . pesthouse!”
She was a pretty, plump, forty-
ish woman ; her appearance was
deceptively soft. She dressed in
smart but frilly styles and looked
cheerful. So that her thin acid
voice came as a shock when
heard for the first time. She had
for years bossed the accounting
section of a fashionable store,
where she had enjoyed her work,
“being near lovely things with
lovely people” as she said, things
fine fabrics, clothes, glass
and china and people like —
it was harassed Mr. Colling-
wood who once muttered as she
flounced from his office: “Bunch
of pansy floor-walkers ! ”
It was generally rumored at
Harston’s that, far from Man-
power having sought her out,
her erstwhile employers had
taken a golden opportunity for
getting rid of her, by suggesting
that her abilities should be used
towards the war effort.
Probably the person who dis-
liked her most and with greatest
cause was Mr. Collingwood, the
chief accountant; When she
first arrived she lost no time in
seeking him out:
“I have a complaint, I’m sorry
to say, Mr. Collingwood.”
“Yes, Miss MacMillan?”
“The men in the costing sec-
tion’s language. I realise that
until the present time this office
has not had many women on the
staff. I think now the men
should . . .” Or:
“Look at these vouchers, Mr.
Collingwood. It is disgraceful
that I, or my girls, should be
expected to handle such things.”
He took the bundle she put
forward.
“I agree they’re a bit battered,
but absolutely legible, you
know.”
“But that . . . muck on them.”
“It’s only oil or grease. It’s
not always easy for the men in
the shops to keep papers clean.”
“But think of the germs!”
“Oh, I don’t think you need
bother unduly, Miss MacMillan.
It’s only machine-oil. I’ll ask
the men to try and be more
careful.”
“Well! If the Manpower
would . . .”
“Exactly,” said Mr. Colling-
wood, wearily.
At first her complaints about
the dirt of the office were made
weekly. Mr. Collingwood, tired,
exasperated, lines showing about
his thin mouth, at last told her
directly that he was satisfied the
management had done, were
doing and would continue to do
everything they could to keep
their office from a burial as in-
sidious as ancient Troy’s. What-
ever further he said on that
occasion apparently convinced
her that further complaints to
him on this score would be
useless.
CO she directed her fire to-
wards Mr. Pettifer. He was
responsible for the lunch-hour
ministrations to that section of
the office where the comp-
tometers were located. She took
to remaining at her desk at
lunch-hour instead of going up
to the canteen or eating her sand-
wiches in the sheltered garden
near the entrance-gates. And
she took to calling Mr. Pettifer
“Pettifer”; (she had always ad-
dressed Dan O’Brien as Mr.
O’Brien, whereas to everyone
else he was known as “Dan”).
Then: /
“Pettifer. I’d like you to take
jip the mats at least in my sec-
tion and shake them thoroughly
. . . outside if you please.
It’s not the floor alone, Pettifer,
these walls need sweeping too.”
After a few days of this Dan
(|Continued on page 30)
WIND AND RAIN
Lear and blind Oedipus
Play with birds and butterflies.
Naked we come and go
Under the terrible skies.
Lord have mercy upon us.
He has luck who can
Follow temperate streams of
blood
Through a chequered fallow
land
And where his father stood,
Leave his shadow on the plan;
Blessed if beneath
The grey towers of the mind
Dreaming where the colored
light
Weaves its web, he find
Satisfaction for his death.
Yet with wind and rain
Butterflies and beggars ride;
A lightning cleaves the heart
And there is so much pride
They must seek their death
again. /
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


Functionalism Fetish
The Vogue in Building
By J.D.K.
IT has always been my belief
that architecture is the art
for the man-in-the-street.
But it seems that many
designers of large public- or
institutional - buildings today —
while rightly catering for and
improving upon their clients’
wishes —are telling the man-in-
the-street to mind his own
business.
In effect, we passers-by are
being told that we have no right
to be so vulgar and unsophisti-
cated as to expect to be
impressed.
My experience of the impact
of fine architecture is that when
you first see a great building it
makes you gasp. Your scalp
may tingle. You get < out of
your tram or bus to have a good
look at it. Or perhaps you come
back at a more suitable time and
have the pleasure of approaching
it on foot. Its effect may be to
excite, soothe, intrigue or delight
you. It may make you laugh
or it may make you angry—but
at all events you are impressed.
Today yoUr reaction to good
architecture in Australia is
expected to be more sophisti-
cated. In your aesthetic rapture
you should murmur: “How
superbly and economically
planned. How faultlessly lighted.
What inspired provision for
parking. And how splendid
the sanitary-arrangements un-
doubtedly must be.”
I don’t know whether it is the
same in other countries, but it
seems to me that in Australia we
are paying a belated and over-
extravagant homage to func-
tionalism. Only recently I heard
a young architect declaring that
a building that is truly functional
is truly beautiful, or something
amounting to that.
Without question, a clear
recognition of function gives
rise to much that is essentially
beautiful not only in building
but in many other fields of con-
temporary design. But the bald
statement is not and never was
true —not even when the Gothic
builders devised their vaults and
pinnacles and flying-buttresses.
They made them beautiful; and
the ambitious builders of
Beauvais were not the only ones
who were willing to take big
risks to impress.
In Australia we build water-
towers and wheat-silos, usually
designed on functional lines.
But I never saw one that was
beautiful unless its designer took
good care to make it so.
The lean-to or cowshed style
at present in vogue, which is
appropriate and even attractive
in some circumstances, hasi
ceased to be a pleasant novelty.
It now threatens to be a blight
on the whole field of Australian
building-design.
I have no quarrel with the
private owner who chooses to
build a house in this style, runs
the rainwater off the roof into
beautiful drainage-channels at
the back, and displays the
intimate workings of his house-
hold behind plate-glass. That is
his affair. But when the style is
allowed to influence important
public buildings it is time to
protest.
Canberra, for various reasons,
is wide open to the infection. I
think it is a fair guess that its
ravages will give rise to much
puzzlement and mortification 20
or 30 years hence.
The most conspicuous offender
is the much-praised University
House. By all account excel-
lently planned and appointed,
decorated and furnished in the
best modern manner, it appears
to the passer-by only as a shape-
less clump of assorted annexes.
Its main front is something like
the average airport - terminal
(Australian standard). Its resi-
dential facade, studded with
recessed “sleepout” balconies
caressed by the winter sun, is
reminiscent of the blocks of
flats which were common in the
seaside-suburbs of Sydney and
Melbourne before loudspeakers
had superseded player-pianos.
The one unmistakable message
conveyed to the passer-by: At
all cost University House must
not impress.
The best that can be hoped for
is that in course of time it will
merge into its background and
pass unnoticed.
But this is the current trend in
Canberra. Insofar as there is
a man-in-the-street, he resents
being impressed. In no circum-
stances must a building display
itself brazenly to the vulgar
curiosity. It should grovel in the
dirt and make itself indistinguish-
able from the dusty slopes
around it. In course of time,
anyway, it will be hidden by
trees.
Almost the only closed vista
in Canberra is a short tree-lined
approach to the rear of the High
School, the tower of which is
centred on the axis of the avenue.
But this pleasant little reach has
been destroyed by a cowshed-
annexe, which does not even
display its shiny front, but sits
blatantly stern -on to the
approach and cuts across the
vista.
In Canberra the notion of
height is, of course, anathema.
People write angrily to the press
protesting that a block of flats
should aspire to the giddy height
of six or seven stories. Evidence
at a recent inquiry revealed that
for 20 years authority had suc-
cessfully obstructed a one-story
addition to a one-story shop in
Kingston, on the ground that it
would destroy the architectural
balance of the shopping-centre.
The Australian-American War
Memorial column which, despite
inhibitions, manages to rise to
a clean 220 ft. or so, got little
but abuse in Canberra until the
fund of facetious nicknames ran
out. What right has it to stand
up there and look impressive?
We want no vulgar tourists
gaping up at that or anything
else.
Parliament House, now 28
years old, is a classic of
squatting mediocrity. Valiant
efforts are made to treat its
surroundings with roses and
tulips so as to pay some sort of
homage to the majesty of the
Legislature. All it needs to
justify its conception is adorn-
ment by sculptors of the
crouching-elephant school.
Nobody in Canberra contem-
plates without a shudder the
prospect of a future Parliament
building bestriding Capital Hill.
If Michelangelo’s dome were
airfreighted to Canberra next
week, all prefabricated, it would
be stored in a basement some-
where for fear of disfiguring the
“natural surroundings” of the
national capital.
I am no opponent of con-
temporary design. For my
taste the more slashing and
daring the better. But at least
let our buildings be impressive
where circumstances justify it.
The precious sense of wonder
at great buildings is being relent-
lessly driven out of the mind of
the average Australian by archi-
tects and building-authorities
committed to the principle of
the greatest comfort for the
lowest cost. If they succeed
they must be prepared for
architecture to cease to be an art
and to become a combination
of draughtsmanship, quantity-
surveying and sanitary-
engineering.
But I have yet to learn that
the human eye has lost its
appetite for the soaring vertical
line and the clean horizontal
line in whatever style it may
occur; for rhythmic fenestra-
tion ; for the notion of symmetry
and balance, to whatever degree
it may be judiciously departed
from. I have yet to learn that
the average man has developed
a preference for crouching and
unreposeful prefabricated
shelters, whose supreme achieve-
ment in this technical age seems
to be that they keep the rain out
and let the light in.
Possibly it is the malaise of
our age that we cannot bring
ourselves to build monu-
mentally. Possibly we have lost
confidence, for nuclear and other
reasons, in the survival of our
cities and seek only a temporary
shelter with modern conveni-
ences. But if this is so, then
there is a drab prospect before
the generations to come.
Comfort they may have, but
little aesthetic satisfaction.
Victorian Victoria, heady with
gold, built on monumental lines.
The Colonial Treasury sited
itself at the top of Collins-street
with such majestic dignity that
hardly anyone would dare try
to do it out of a brass razoo.
For some reason it later moved
around the corner, but left an
assortment of officials working
behind what is probably the
most impressive and completely
satisfying facade of any public
building in Australia.
The Legislature, expected no
doubt to develop the common
touch, presided more ostenta-
tiously over rowdier, seamier,
rough-and-tumble Bourke-street.
But today no newcomer can
pass either building without
doing a bit of a gape.
Without doubt monumental
building, especially in the last
century, was responsible for
some gigantic lapses of taste.
The world’s cities are studded
with examples London’s St.
Pancras, Bombay’s Victoria
Terminal, the Victor Emanuel
monument in Rome. Yet they
set out for effect and got it, and
their pretensions are more
meaningful than the pallid
neutrality of many of the larger
buildings in the current style.
Effect does not necessarily call
for building in a historic style.
Walter Burley Griffin achieved
it at Newman College (Mel-
bourne), as long ago as 1917, in
a modern idiom and with an
almost scandalous disregard of
the proprieties. It is as well
he did not live to see what
happened to Canberra.
An Expert's Advice
Better Houses for Less
By G. F. MIDDLETON
The writer of this article
on the advantages of
rammed-earth houses is
United Nations’ low-cost
housing expert.
HOW many know that the
Commonwealth Govern-
ment, at its own Building
Research Station, at North Ryde
(Sydney), proved the high value,
durability, many advantages and
low cost of rammed - earth
houses?
In many other countries, too,
considerable work has been done
and many houses built of the
same material and by similar
methods. America more than
any other country has tested and
developed the methods. In
California adobe houses are
fashionable.
I am not suggesting that
nothing has been done in Aus-
tralia ; that would be quite
incorrect. I suppose the number
of people who have built
rammed-earth houses for them-
selves since the end of World
War II must run into thousands.
But it still surprises me that
there are not many more.
The methods are simple, the
advantages many and the houses
eminently suitable for the Aus-
tralian climate. But the biggest
factor, and the one which should
make more people turn to this
system of construction, is the
high value for the lowest cost.
Building costs have continued
to soar until now it seems almost
impossible for the young newly-
weds to acquire a home except
by spending the rest of their
lives paying it off. And if
values drop later on, where do
they stand?
Here are some of the advan-
tages of rammed-earth houses:
1. —Earth is one of the finest
of insulating materials —
therefore the house is well
insulated against heat and
cold.
2. —The walls are solid, dense
and durable. Well-built
earth-houses will last
hundreds of years.
3. —The walls are proof
against white-ants pro-
vided all vegetable matter,
such as twigs, roots, grass,
etc., is removed from the
earth before ramming.
4. —The walls are fireproof —
in fact, fire will usually
bake them harder.
5. —The walls are built mono-
lithic in a single opera-
tion ; there are no bricks
or blocks requiring mul-
tiple handling, and there
are no mortar-joints to
impart weakness.
6. —As there are no masonry-
units, skilled tradesmen
are not required to build
the walls.
7. —There can be no shortage
of earth-material, and
therefore no delay or
hold-up.
8. —The cost is the lowest of
all building methods.
There are other advantages,
but what more could be wanted
than those enumerated?
Regarding the other compon-
ents of the house, these are my
suggestions:
Foundations: Normal, as for
masonry structures. Bear in
mind that money can be wasted
on ill-designed foundations, for
any type of house.
Floors: In the Middle and Far
East all ground-floors are solid.
Why is it that for a single-story
house we in Australia must pro-
vide expensive timber-framed
floors for white-ants and borers
to feed on? The old belief that
solid floors are responsible for
tired feet, rheumatism and other
complaints has been disproved
and is purely imagination.
Floors can be made of
rammed-earth and cement,
rendered over with a cement-
sand mix and finished with
color, or surfaced with any one
of a number of materials such
as parquet, boarding, lino.,
bituminous felt, rubber and
rubber compositions, - asbestos
tiles, terra-cotta tiles, concrete
tiles, and so on.
Roofs: Light-timber or steel
roof-trusses should take the
place of the usual wasteful and
expensive heavy timber-frames.
The roof-covering can be accord-
ing to the house-design or the
owner’s particular taste.
Doors: Inexpensive flush-
doors made with synthetic-resin
bonded plywood.
Windows: Light metal-frames
and -sashes. Adjustable louvres
for bathroom verandas, laun-
dries and sunrooms.
All of the components I have
suggested will help to reduce the
cost of the house, but will in no
way detract from its value —on
the contrary, they will enhance
the general appearance. In
addition, they are items which
require a minimum of work and
skill for the fixing. This means
that any energetic man with
some experience of handling the
ordinary building-tools can do
the work himself in weekends
and holidays, and thereby pro-
duce a valuable asset at the
lowest possible cost.
But owner-builders are not the
only people who can gain practi-
cal value and great savings from
such methods. There are depart-
ments and institutions that have
been slow to see the benefits,
and one wonders why. For
instance, schools have been an
urgent need for some time.
Think of the benefits to both the
authorities and the children
which rammed-earth construc-
tion can give, but which is
obtainable from np other form
of building:
1. —Approximately half the
cost of equivalent brick
buildings.
2. —Cool in summer, warm in
winter.
3. —Fireproof.
4. —Dry and healthy.
5. —Permanent durability
under all conditions.
6. —Speedy erection.
7. —Termite- and borer-proof.
8. —The building-cost would
be the same in far-distant
inland areas as it would be
in city suburban areas.
No high transportation
costs.
In Ceylon last year I proved
to the satisfaction of the Govern-
ment the high strength and
durability of rammed-earth
walls, stabilised with the addi-
tion of only 4 per cent, of
cement. I loaded a pair of 9in.-
thick walls of solid burnt brick
in lime-mortar with steel bearers
and heavy iron castings to the
point of destruction. The
rammed-earth walls supported
over 5 tons more than the brick
walls before giving way.
To prove the resistance to
flooding I built a large open
tank, built three rammed-earth
walls inside it, and then sub-
jected them to cycles of flooding
and drying-out. The walls were
immersed in water for successive
periods of three, seven and 15
days.
Proof of the resistance to
tropical monsoon rains was
demonstrated when 40 workers
dwellings under construction,
and therefore having no roofs
on them, resisted an unusually
heavy two weeks’ continuous
monsoonal downpour with
absolutely no ill-effects.
Are there any more advan-
tages, and are there any more
proofs that anyone could ask
than these?


RHEUMATISM - - -
ARTHRITIS - - -
A new highly-active lodised
Salicylate Cream can give you
quick relief from pain and long-
term remedial action.
AMPLISAL
MASSAGE CREAM
Send 6/6 for full-size jar.
Archer Laboratories,
POST OFFICE, PARRAMATTA.
DIGESTIVE TROUBLES
COLITIS, DIVERTICULITIS
TAKE CHERBA TABLETS
Specially prepared from an olt
proven herbal recipe. For chronic
conditions. Postal note for 12/6 will
provide one month’s treatment.
ALLAN MURRAY PTY. LTD.,
I Maloney St., Mascot.
For Sale
PIANO-ACCORDION, in good
condition. Price £l2O. Write to
Armnoo Cibattoni, 1 08 a Pad-
dington St., Paddington, N.S.W.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HILTON MOORE PEARSON of Port
Macquarie.—TAKE NOTICE that
FLORENCE JOAN PEARSON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4548 of 1953
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the sth October i 955 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from HENRY WILSHIRE WEBB. Soli-
citor, of 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friends
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts
of relatives of FREDERICK WILLIAMS,
deceased, late of Hamilton, New Zealand,
Retired Hairdresser, who died at Hamil-
ton on 3rd May, 1953, request them to
communicate with the undersigned.
Frederick Williams was born at Kyogle,
New South Wales, about 1882, and was at
one time heavyweight boxing champion
of Australasia.—W. KANE, District
Public Trustee, P.O. Box 429, Hamilton,
New Zealand.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts
of MRS. ETHEL MAY MITCHELL, a
daughter of JOHN VINCENT SARA,
please communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Wellington, New
Zealand, and refer to the estate of
FREDERICK PATRICK KANE ?
SPORTING NOTIONS
New Zealand three-year-olds
El Khobar II and Omar 11, in
the field for the Hobartville
Stakes at Warwick Farm this
Saturday, when the spring
racing-season will open, will
find strong local .opposition from
Sydney’s best of the age, includ-
ing Kings t e r , Knave and
Aboukir. It is several years
since we have had such an attrac-
tive Hobartville entry; the
winner, of course, will probably
come into keen demand for the
Derbies.
History, however, shows the
Hobartville up in an unfavor-
able light so far as the A.J.C.
Derby is concerned. The
Hobartville has mostly been
won by sprinters. Last season
50-to-l Pride of Egypt won it,
and then won the Canterbury
and Rosehill Guineas, but he did
not appear in the Derby.
Talking, in 1936, won the
Hobartville and later both
Derbies, as did Rampion.
Ammon Ra won both the
Hobartville and the A.J.C.
Derby.
Spring prospects for the
Advocate stable brightened
sharply after his stylish success
ill the Rosehill Flying Handicap
on Saturday, but Connaught’s
connections were disappointed
at the modest display by last
year’s Epsom winner, who
finished last of the six starters.
Connaught looked fit and started
second-favorite, but he folded-
up quickly after being close to
the lead entering the straight.
Advocate, always travelling like
a winner, went round the field
at the straight-entrance and was
wider than any other horse over
the last two furlongs. He was
going away at the finish. He
has 8.11 in the Metropolitan,
8.12 in the Caulfield Cup and
8.10 in the Melbourne Cup.
As expected, Landy was much
too solid for opponents in the
Rosehill Three-year-old Handi-
cap, but odds-on supporters were
not greatly impressed by the
performance from a Derby view-
point. He had to be kept up
to his work to stall-off outsider
Caranna, winner of one race, a
six-furlong Two-year-old Handi-
cap at Rosehill in June. It was
Landy’s third win in as many
starts.
Also as expected, Regal
Glitter started a warm favorite
and won the Rosehill Handicap,
his final dash to the winning-
post timed to a nicety. The six-
year-old horse has won at a
mile-and-a-half at Randwick,
and Rosebery trainer Harry
Horton has him particularly fit
at the moment. He will have to
keep him that way until the first
week in October if he is to
seriously challenge the better-
fancied Metrop. horses. How-
ever, he should be a lightweight
show with only 7.6 (61b. above
the limit). In the Rosehill event
—which he won in fast time —he
had Bst. (111 b. the limit).
A big, strong horse, he’s booked
to compete in the Newcastle Cup
(September 3), weighted at 8.2.
A win there could bring a
penalty for the Metropolitan.
Reg Cook, brother of Bill,
was a successful jockey in India
—the leading horseman there for
12 years —before coming back to
Sydney and setting-up as a
trainer. With one of his first
horses, Paralla, he won his
initial race as a trainer when his
entry, ridden by Bill, got up in
the final stride to take the
Auburn Stakes at Rosehill from
Beresford Hope, who appeared
from the stands to have just got
there, and who was at 2 to 1 on
to get the photo-finish.
Cyrette made it four in a row
by easily winning the Australian
Steeplechase (about 3| miles) at
Caulfield on Saturday, leading
all the way and rather damaging
the notion of some that they’re
not the ’orses they useter be.
Gay Lad’s main claims to
Turf fame were his wins in both
the V.R.C. and A.J.C. St. Legers,
and though he has had a fair
measure of success as a sire of
moderate gallopers he has yet
to get a good one. Maybe
Southern Ocean, winner of two
of his last three races, may prove
a good three-year-old. The
brown gelding, who is from
South Wind, had a comfortable
win in the Caulfield Second
Chatsworth Plate (one mile).
Puen Buen stud (Scone,
N.S.W.) bred Kenzar, easy
winner of Canterbury Park
First Maiden Handicap last
week. The Jambo (imp.) colt
comes from the family which
produced Traquette, a noted
Melbourne performer, and
Merriwee, an early Melbourne
Cup winner. Beragoon, dual
Derby winner, also figures in the
pedigree. Etiquette, dam of
Kenza, is by Dhoti (imp.) from
Croette by Crowdennis (imp.)
from Ettafred (Caulfield
Guineas) by George Frederick.
Traquette, winner of several
w.f.a. contests, was the dam of
Powerscourt, who sired Comic
Court.
Ruffled, winner of the Canter-
bury Second Maiden Handicap,
hasn’t done much racing, and
may be all the better for that.
He is trained at Randwick by
Reg Harris for Mrs. R. K.
Loughnan, and is closely related
to two smart sprinters, Tri-
clinium and Sky Hawk. A pro-
duct of Aluinn stud (Roxburgh,
N.S.W.), Ruffled is by Genetout
(imp.) from Vagitus by Talking,
and traces back on the dam’s
side to Maltster.
Swift Gold has come right
into the betting on the Mel-
bourne Cup, but this New
Zealand-bred galloper’s form in
races suffers by comparison with
that of many others from across
the Tasman. He’s a Golden
Souvenir five-year-old, and the
impression is that handicappers
have been lenient with the
visitor, who is being prepared
for spring engagements by that
astute trainer of stayers, Danny
Lewis. This veteran of many
spring and autumn campaigns
has had considerable success
with horses that could stick, the
list including Foxzami, Crucis,
Akuna, Contact, L’Aiglon and
Proctor. However, handicappers
seldom err on the score of
leniency. It was said that the
V.A.T.C. handicapper “threw”
New Zealander Gladynev into
the 1940 Caulfield Cup with the
limit 6.7, but another from the
Dominion —Beaulivre, with 9st.
—gave the offiaVl the last laugh.
Jj! * *
The only metropolitan trot-
course in Australia racing at
present, Sydney’s Harold Park
launched its new season on Fri-
day night. Bright races and fast
times blow a true note for the
club’s spring and summer line-
up. A. Phillis, who topped last
season’s trainers’ and drivers’
lists with 40 and 41 wins respec-
tively, stepped off on the right
foot with a treble, followed at
Richmond next day with a
double. His figures for last
season are night-trot records, but
the Harold Park record belongs
to E. L. (Jerry) McDonald, who
tallied winners one day-trot
season. Few trot-fans realise
that Jerry, who drove in the first
race on Friday, was once the
master of the art.
Two of Phillis’s winners,
Nobby and Eureka Scott, are
by imported sire U. Scott, the
other by Australia’s “best yet,”
Lawn Derby. Eureka Scott is
out of Eureka Girl, by Jack
Potts—renowned sire of brood-
mares. Returning a mile-gait of
2.8 f, Eureka Scott surprised
supporters of Percy’s Elect, the
only odds-on starter of the night.
Percy’s Elect is a son of Spring-
field Globe, who headed last
season’s sires’-list. After the
deaths of Robert Derby and
Lawn Derby it looked logical
that Springfield Globe would
maintain the Globe Derby
strength in Australia, but his
recent death leaves the top sire
position vacant; Ribands may
take it over.
The square-trotters’ race is
always a favorite at Harold
“ That's right—let ME do all the Work!”
Park. What adds to the spectacle
of rolling, bouncing square-
gaiters is the contrast in styles
of the honest plugger and the
speedy but erratic type. Shanghai
Danger—Friday night’s winner
—is an honest old chestnut geld-
ing who gives the impression
that he wants to win. By Wirra
Walla out of Shanghai Mary,
he’s bred well enough to put on
toey airs and graces. Wirra
Walla was a good'son of Walla,
one of Globe Derby’s best.
Despite the name, Shanghai
Mary has a royal lineage, being
by Chile Wood from Lou Mc-
Kinney, by Wilbur Lou (imp.),
from Belle McKinney, by Abbey
Bells (imp.). Another honest
trotter, Shanghai War, is out of
the same mare.
+ +
Australia’s Rugby Union reps,
in N.Z. put three tries on the
board to two by Hawkes Bay,
but lost a lively skirmish, 14-11
—their first defeat of the tour.
Eastern Suburbs is jumping
high for the plums of Sydney’s
Union comp.: on Saturday
they beat University in all four
grades. Their improved “firsts”
put the Students through the
rudiments, 11-8. In other games,
comp.-leaders Gordon tossed
Eastwood, 11-6; St. George
stampeded over Norths in the
second half, to make it 19-6;
Drummoyne was too lively for
Randwick, 19-9; and Parra-
matta stoushed Manly, 22-14.
“Lyle”: The British Isles
Rugby Unionists touring South
Africa won the first Test, at
Ellis Park, Johannesburg, by one
point; 23-22. A world-record
Union crowd of 90,000 saw the
game.
* * *
Essendon, roughly handled the
previous round by V.F.L. leader
Melbourne, dealt out the same
treatment on Saturday to
Collingwood, 19.19-8.12. When
they’d last met, ’Wood, too, had
roughly handled Essendon, on a
wet ground, the Magpies’ little
men dominating the game. This
time, in different conditions, the
small men were kept in check,
and the high-marking Dons did
all the mauling. They virtually
won the game in the second
quarter, when, against a strong
wind, they kicked 4.5 to ’Wood’s
1.5. Collingwood now slips
from second to third, and, in the
zigzag battle for fourth place,
the Dons come back into “the
four” again, ousting Footscray,
which, however, also won.
Against Fitzroy ’Scray were be-
hind almost right through, but
won by kicking eight goals in a
dashing last quarter (11.13-9.7).
The other two of the Big Five
won, Melbourne by one goal
only from Hawthorn, despite a
game finish by the Hawks (13.13-
12.13), and Geelong, almost
without trying, smashed St.
Kilda (19.17-7.10). In what were
track-canters only, having no
effect on the competition,
Carlton beat South, 12.7-6.12,
and Richmond toppled North,
12.20-10.9.
The two top goalkickers in
this season’s Sydney Australian
Rules competition, taken up to
the last round before the finals,
were Sydney-Naval rover Danny
Wilson (83 goals) and young
Western Suburbs full-forward
Terry Ingersoll (81 goals). Both
twice topped 10 goals in a game
—Wilson 14 and 11, Ingersoll
15 and 17, Ingersoll’s two tallies
being kicked in the last two
rounds. The 17 came from 21
shots ; and he didn’t get one kick
in the third quarter!
“C.A.A.”: The Bendigo (Vic.)
Football Association has pro-
duced the first known instance
in Aussie Rules of a central
umpire being tripped by a player.
Disqualification for two seasons.
* * *
Last week Australian Soccer
coach Tom Tennant tipped his
team to win the second Test
against South China in Sydney;
and it did —decisively, too, 6-1.
This Australian side looked the
best so far put together; and,
with one or two changes at the
most (say, injured skipper-centre-
half Joe Marston back for Tom
Jack, his replacement in both
capacities—who, however, was
sound enough), it should be
retained and given its chance to
develop into a really good team.
* * *
Young Scottish cyclist lan
Greenfield won the professional
600-mile Tour of Tasmania, with
Eddie Smith second. Smith had
led at earlier stages, and looked
the likely winner till he
punctured badly towards the
finish. Greenfield’s time was
32hrs. 53min. 38sec.; Smith
took 39sec. longer.
* * *
“A.L.8.”: Bobby Smiles,
selected as the outstanding player
in the 1955 Australian baseball
carnival, has been a pitcher since
he was a nine-year-old. Now a
22-year-old bank-teller, he’s
playing his first season for
N.S.W. Weighing 10.6, and
sft. 9in. high, he’s lightly built
for a first-class pitcher. Like
many another Australian base-
baller, he plays cricket in
summer —up-and-down medium-
paced bowler.
* * *
Ten under par, top o’ the
score, and a round to play,
British Open champ. Australia’s
Peter Thomson nose-dived with
a 78 to end-up seventh in the
All-American Golf Champion-
ship. His card for the four
rounds read 71, 65, 70, 78—
284. Tourney - winner was
American Doug Ford, who
called on his arm-muscles seven
times less often than Thomson
for a 277. Later in the week
Thomson teed-up with Italy’s
Angel Gutierrez to down Ameri-
cans Ford and Biagetti 3-2 in
the first round of the Inter-
national Cup.
Five young pros, have been
chosen by the Professional
Golfers’ Association (Vic.) for
the junior section of the Ampol
tourney: Ken Loy (Green
Acres), John Clarke (Wood-
lands), Ted Naismith (Long
Island), Trevor Trigg (Gee-
long) and A. Heil (Patterson
River). On at the Lakes
(Sydney), November 10, 11 and
12, the tourney carries £3OOO
prizemoney, including £5OO for
the juniors.
New Zealand’s £lOOO Wise-
man’s Invitation Golf Tourna-
ment will be on from September
29 to October 1, entries closing
on August 29. They’re follow-
ing the sensible American style
of even distribution of prize-
money: Ist, £3OO ; 2nd, £150;
3rd, £100; 4th, £75; sth, £5O;
and so on, with also, of course,
attractive amateur trophies.
The Pelaco golf-tourney, pros,
and amateurs, is billed for
October 19, 20, 21, and 22.
There’ll be 90 holes stroke play
—three days of 18 holes each and
two 18’s on the final day, with
the first 24 players and ties
qualifying for the final.
♦ * *
“Anyndah”: Talking of nice
work with the scythe (“C.P.G.,”
B. 27/7/’55), in the palmy days
of South Australian cricket,
when the State side could field
Geo. Giffen, Jack Lyons, Joe
Darling, Clem Hill, two Jarvises,
Jack McKenzie, Ernest Jones
and others, Charlie Checkett, the
curator of the Adelaide Oval,
always used the, to me, un-
handy tool to prepare wickets
that were as true, fast and lasting
as any we see today. He could
literally shave the pitch—l’ve
seen him at it.


Unique in Australian Publishing
Books off “The Bulletin"
By W. E. FITZ HENRY
-7" HEMSELVES both book-
S collectors whose special-
y j ity is Australiana, Dr.
George Mackaness and
Walter Stone joined forces to
produce an unusual little book,
which is shortly to be published
by Angus' and Robertson, and
which will itself be an Aus-
traliana-collector’s item, with
something of a wider appeal —
an annotated bibliography of
books, booklets, brochures,
pamphlets and periodicals bear-
ing The Bulletin imprint.
To be titled The Books of
The Bulletin, it will have a fore-
word and frontispiece-drawing
by Norman Lindsay, and present
writer was co-opted to do a
biographical and general intro-
duction, commenting on the
entries and giving some details
concerning the authors of the
various items listed.
Naturally, the first entry is
The Bulletin itself, which made
its first appearance on Saturday,
January 31, 1880, “printed and
published by John Haynes and
J. F. Archibald, Sole Proprietors,
at The Bulletin Office, 107
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.”
Part of an editorial statement is
quoted: “The public eye rejects
as uninteresting more than half
of what is printed in the publi-
cations of the day. It is only the
other half which will be found
in The Bulletin.”
It was an eight-page paper,
with illustrations by William
Macleod and Sam Begg. The
title-head was done in orna-
mental lettering, embellished
with floreats and superimposed
upon a scene of Sydney Harbor,
and was used until 1886, when it
was replaced by the since well-
known script. The price of the
paper was reduced with the
second number from 4d. to 3d.
a copy, but was raised to 6d.
on May 19, 1883, when the
familiar red cover first appeared.
The story of the foundation of
The Bulletin and some of its
early history was told by J. F.
Archibald in his “The Genesis
of The Bulletin,” printed in
“The Lone Hand.” Five years
ago I myself wrote a brief
history of the paper.
The first Bulletin book listed
by Mackaness and Stone is
The History of Botany Bay
(1888), a reprint of a series of
articles written for The Bulletin
by F. J. Donohoe under the
nom-de-plume of “Arthur
Gayll.” It was illustrated by
Livingston Hopkins and Phil
May, and was intended as a
satirical counterblast to the
smug histories published to
commemorate the centenary of
N. S. Wales. Over 20,000 cdpies
were published, but a single
copy is hard to obtain these days.
Next follows A Golden Shanty
(1890), an anthology of stories
and verse by Bulletin writers,
selected by J. F. Archibald and
F. J. Broomfield. This anthology
takes its title from a story by
Edward Dyson, which has been
reprinted many times. A Golden
Shanty contained, among other
prose and verse, Henry Lawson’s
“Faces in the Street” and “His
Father’s Mate,” “Banjo” Pater-
son’s “Clancy of the Overflow”
and “Old Pardon, the Son of
Reprieve,” and John Farrell’s
“How He Died.” Mackaness and
Stone note a number of vari-
ations in the binding and make-
up of the book. Sold at “one
shilling in paper * covers, with
a few copies in cloth boards at
two shillings,” it costs guineas
to buy nowadays.
Two collections of short-
stories from the pages of The
Bulletin next appeared—Price
Warung’s Tales of the Convict
System (1892) and Ernest Fav-
enc’s The Last of Six (1893).
Both were paperbacks selling at
Is. each. Price Warung’s book
carried a quotation from a
speech by Archbishop Whateley
in the House of Lords in 1840:
“The Transportation System.....
is a monument such as, I sup-
pose, was never before erected
by any people, Christian or
Pagan, of combined absurdity
and wickedness.” Appropriately,
Tales of The Convict System is
dedicated to the memory of
Marcus Clarke.
On November 1, 1895, The
Bulletin published a special
number devoted to the history
of the Dean Case, which case led
to Richard Denis Meagher, a
prominent lawyer, being struck
off the roll. His repeated appli-
cations for reinstatement as a
solicitor kept the case alive in
public memory for more than 25
years.
An earlier special number,
published on December 24,
1886, and devoted to the terrible
Mount Rennie executions,
receives a passing mention in an
annotation.
The author of the history of
the Dean Case was A. G.
Stephens, who had joined The
Bulletin literary staff some little
time previously. The Suffield
Case (1897), a demand for a
public inquiry into the trial of
Thomas Suffield, who was sen-
tenced to a long term of im-
prisonment on a rape-charge,
was also written by A. G.
Stephens.
In the Mitchell Library, Syd-
ney, Mackaness and Stone found
a bound set of a series of
electioneering handbills con-
sisting of biting satire at the
expense of George Reid ; these
had been reprinted from The
Bulletin, with illustrations by
Livingston Hopkins.
In 1898 appeared the first of
the many books edited and
steered through the press by A.
G. Stephens. This was Will H.
Ogilvie’s Fair Girls and Gray
Horses, an attractive book with
its yellowish-green cloth, title in
gold on spine, gilt top, illustra-
tions by George Lambert, and
bookmark of yellow silk ribbon
bound in.
The various editions, and
variations within editions, of this
book supply a bibliographical
puzzle that should delight people
who like to unravel such tangles.
Five years later The Bulletin
published a second book of verse
by Ogilvie, Hearts of Gold and
Other Verses, which was illus-
trated by Frank Mahony, Fred
Leist, George Lambert and
Norman Carter.
E. J. Brady’s The Ways of
Many Waters (1899) came next.
It received high praise overseas,
and John Masefield said that it
contained the best poems ever
written about the merchant-
sailor and the man-o’-war’s man.
Ten years after its original pub-
lication, T. C. Lothian, of
Melbourne, reissued the volume
with illustrations by Alex Sass.
Another 1899 Bulletin book
was Maoriland and Other Verses,
by Arthur H. Adams, a New
Zealander, who later joined The
Bulletin literary staff, edited
the Red Page for several years,
and took over “The Lone Hand”
when Frank Fox resigned the
editorship in 1909.
The same year also saw the
publication of On Our Selection,
by Arthur H. Davis (“Steele
Rudd”). Bound in rough fawn
cloth, edges red, it contained 80
illustrations by A. J. Fischer, A.
H. Fullwood, George Lambert,
Fred Leist, Frank Mahony and
Alf Vincent. This book is of
&
considerable bibliographical in-
terest. Although a preliminary
announcement stated that the
frontispiece was to be by Living-
ston Hopkins, one by A. J.
Fischer was substituted ; .book-
collectors, therefore, can save
themselves searching for an edi-
tion with a Hopkins frontis-
piece.
In 1902 The Bulletin put out
a second book by “Steele Rudd,”
Our New Selection. Norman
Lindsay did the frontispiece, and
his brother Lionel, L. H. Booth
and Alf Vincent supplied many
illustrations.
The only instance of a
Bulletin book being published
at the expense of the author was
W. T. Goodge’s Hits ! Skits ! and
Jingles!, also published’in 1899.
This edition, which consisted of
1000 copies, is known among
book-collectors as “The Author's
Edition.” A second and enlarged
edition, published by The
Bulletin at its own risk in 1904,
contained a number of Norman
Lindsay illustrations. An in-
Frontispiece illustration in “The Bulletin Reciter.
teresting item is the poem “The
Great Australian Adjective,”
which thus predated C. J.
Dennis’s “Austral —-aise.”
The fifth book published in
1899 was the first of what were
called “The Bulletin Booklets.”
It was Roderic Quinn’s The
Hidden Tide. Other Bulletin
booklets were James Hebble-
thwaite’s A Rose of Regret
(1900), Roderic Quinn’s The
Circling Hearths (1901), Louiser
Mack’s Dreams in Flower (1901),
Hubert Church’s The West'Wind
(1902), and Bernard O’Dowd’s
Downward ? (1903). The six
Bulletin booklets—all verse —
were with some minor
alterations, in one volume in
1904 under the title of A
Southern Garland. Bound in
green buckram, with gilt top, it
is one of the most beautiful of
all the Bulletin books de-
signed by A. G. Stephens.
On January 7, 1899, there
appeared the first number of
“The Bookfellow” (“A Monthly
Magazinelet for Book-buyers
and Book-readers”), prepared
and in a large measure written
by A. G. Stephens, who was also
editing the Red Page at the
same time. Five numbers of
“The Bookfellow” were pub-
lished by The Bulletin, the
last on May 31, 1899. After
Stephens left The Bulletin he
revived “The Bookfellow” as a
weekly for some months in 1907,
and, with variations in the title,
numbers appeared at intervals
until 1925.
The contents of The
Bulletin’s “Bookfellow” are
chiefly reviews, biographical
notes, comments and anecdotes,
with contributions from regular
Bulletin writers, including
Chris Brennan, Victor Daley,
JRoderic Quinn, Albert Dorring-
fon and Frank Morton. Included
also were reproductions of
illustrations by overseas artists,
as well as original work by Aus-
tralians. Noteworthy are the
articles on “Newer French
Poetry,” by Brennan, A. G.
Stephens on Henry Lawson, and
stories by Dorrington and
Quinn.
Of special interest to collectors
of Bulletin items are “The
Bulletin Book Circulars,” issued
between 1900 and 1903. It
would appear that, in all, six
were issued. These “Book
Circulars” are very rare. Even
the Mitchell Library has no
copies of the first two numbers.
A. G. Stephens’s file, however,
is in the Mackaness collection.
Albert Dorrington’s Castro’s
Last Sacrament was published in
1900. This book was originally
to have been entitled from the
second story, “A Bush Tan-
queray,” and to be one of a
series to be known as “The
Bulletin Library.” Of those
projected only two others, The
“Bulletin” Story Book and The
“Bulletin” Reciter, ever saw the
light.
James Edmond’s A Policy for
the Commonwealth (1900) was a
series of political articles
reprinted from The Bulletin.
Edmond, who joined the paper
in 1886, was editor from 1902
to 1915.
One of the most popular of
all The Bulletin books, and
the one most frequently asked
for today, is The “Bulletin”
Reciter (1901), the copyright of
which was later sold to the
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Eighty
Bulletin writers were repre-
sented, and many famous
Bulletin “recitation - pieces”
included. It has been out of
print for a long time.
The “Bulletin” Story Book
(1901) is a collection of stories
by 62 Bulletin writers. Features
of this volume are the notable
introduction by A. G. Stephens
and the brief but valuable bio-
graphies of the authors, with
bibliographies of their writings.
For more than v 25 years it
remained the only available
anthology of Australian short-
stories, and even today is sought
after, not only by book-
collectors and students of Aus-
tralian literature, but by general
readers.
The only instance of The
Bulletin taking over and pub-
lishing a book already issued
was its publication of Victor J.
Daley’s At Dawn and Dusk
(1902), the first edition of which
was published by Angus and
Robertson in 1898. The third
and fourth editions reverted to
Angus and Robertson. J. Le
Gay Brereton wrote a satirical
poem criticising Angus and
Robertson for selling the book
to The Bulletin. The manu-
script of the poem, which was
not published, is in the Chaplin
collection.
The highlight of 1903 was the
publication of Such Is Life, by
Tom Collins, which, of course,
was the pen-name of Joseph
Furphy. The story of this
book’s origin and of the diffi-
culties attending its publication
is told by Kate Baker and Miles
Franklin in their Who Was
Joseph Furphy? Copies of the
first edition of Such Is Life sell
as high as six-guineas.
Also listed are “The Bulletin
Postcards” six (or was it
seven?) series of postcards
issued between 1903 and 1907.
Printed plain or in colors (ten
or twelve to a packet) they
depicted various aspects of Aus-
tralian life, mostly humorous,
and were the work of Hopkins,
Phil May, Norman Lindsay,
Lionel Lindsay, B. E. Minns,
George Lambert, D. H. Souter,
Frank Mahony, Ambrose Dyson
and Hugh McCrae. Of all the
lesser-known Bulletin items
they are among the very hardest
to obtain.
Also hard to come by are such
small items as A Word About
“The Bulletin” from The
“London Times” (1903), “The
Bulletin” : Richard Jebb’s Criti-
cism (1905), and On the Trail of
the Trust (1905), the latter a
series of articles dealing with the
International Haivester Co. It
is not certain, but it is probable,
that the articles comprising
On the Trail of the Trust were
written by James Edmond.
In 1904 The Bulletin pub-
lished a collection of A. G.
Stephens’s writings, the greater
part from the Red Page, the
book aptly titled The Red Pagan.
It is not, however, representative
of Stephens at his best, and a
definitive edition of his Red
Page work certainly merits pub-
lication. In 1905 The Bulletin
published a little booklet con-
taining a biographical and
critical notice of Victor Daley
by Stephens. This interesting
little booklet contains poems on
Daley by Will Ogilvie and Stefan
yon Kotze.
Two other 1904 publications
were Phil May in. Australia and
On the Hop, this latter a “selec-
tion from the Australian draw-
ings of Livingston Hopkins.”
Both were very handsome pro-
ductions, the de luxe editions
selling at one-guinea each.
The Phil May volume con-
tains some 200 of May’s
(Continued on page 30)


A --?.':-. Vlv
mm »
-r. '■
mm
- -jm i m
.
~:;i
JB
. .
■
>'
' < £;
'
M
L '
i
f v A'A- :'i?.
. . v-iv '>. ' 'ifM ''
■
SiflflilifiliSllilll
IN WHITE HORSE, at the hand of Time, a great
and generous spirit has learned to be gentle.
To know it is to be charmed by its mild, good
manners; to be thrilled by the thought of such quality
under control. By its character subdued and superb,
delicate bouquet and heartening glow, you
recognise a thoroughbred among whiskies.
WHITE HORSE
Scotch Whisky
.(ELIAR
A'S
S*C.J
—
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GENEVA POST-MORTEM
'T'HREE not-so-optimistic com-
A ments on the results of the
Geneva conference:
London “Economist”: “Geneva
revealed with remarkable pre-
cision the contrasting aims and
methods of the Western and the
Russian leaders. It was notable,
to begin with, that all the new
initiatives and suggestions came
from the Western side: Mr.
Eisenhower’s offer to exchange
military maps and air-survey
facilities with Russia, Sir
Anthony Eden’s suggestions of
a five-Power pact and of recip-
rocal inspection of armaments
in Central Europe, M. Faure’s
project for diverting defence-
expenditure into world develop-
ment, and the joint Western
appeal for a lowering of barriers
to free human contact and move-
ment.
“Marshal Bulganin, for his
part, sat tight, and if anything
tighter. The Russians showed
little interest in the various
Western attempts to reassure
them. They held to their
familiar demands for the liquida-
tion of the Atlantic alliance and
the removal of American forces
from Europe; and they made
it more clear than ever before
that they mean to grant Germany
reunion only after the whole of
Western Europe has been
stripped of protection so that
it can be remodelled into the
shape that Moscow prefers.
“It can hardly be recalled too
often that it is Western unity,
of which Nato is the embodi-
ment, that has brought us to
the point where a meeting like
that [at Geneva] is possible, that
has led the Soviet rulers to
talk, and listen, politely to men
for whom they formerly had
nothing but abuse, that has
brought about their professed
readiness to go again into ques-
tions such as balanced and con-
trolled disarmament and to dis-
cuss for the first time the raising
of the iron curtain that blocks
free human contact between their
subjects and the free peoples.
“Is this the time to begin
weakening the very instrument
that has been so successfully used
to bring about the new atmo-
sphere of hope?”
* *
Michael Hilton, in London
“Daily Telegraph”: “The Rus-
sians had two main objects. Ip
the first place they wanted to
stop anything happening that
would strengthen the free world ;
secondly, they wanted to stoke-
up by every means the artificial
feeling of well-being in the free
world that leads to a blurring
of issues and can only be
beneficial to the Communist
empire.
“In both these purposes they
have succeeded admirably. They
have prevented any clear-cut line
being taken on the German
question, the most important
topic discussed by the conference.
In addition, they have been
helped to spread wider than
ever before the phony legend
that they are just simple, home-
loving souls who desire nothing
more than to live in perfect
amity with all.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“The earnest efforts of statesmen
and commentators alike to justify
the holding of the conference
serve only to underline the fact
that it was, in the respects in
which it was expected to be a
success, a dismal failure. The
only people who have any reason
to rejoice at the results are the
Russians, who achieved more
than they could ever have hoped.
“The central question at the
conference was Germany and
its reunification. On this Mr.
Molotov made the only major
‘concession’ of the week: he
agreed to put it first on the
agenda. But he and Marshal
Bulganin quickly made it clear
that concessions on procedural
questions did not involve con-
cessions on matters of substance.
They ’started right back at the
position which Mr. Molotov
had taken up at Berlin last year
—and would not budge. Thanks
to some assistance from the
Western spokesmen, they got the
questions of Germany and
European security thoroughly
intertwined, and so they
remained in the final ‘directive’
to the Foreign Ministers.
“On the question of European
security the Russians stuck firmly
to the ‘Molotov Plan’ and con-
ceded only that their scheme for
bringing all the countries of
Europe, including the two Ger-
manies, into a collective-security
pact, could be realised in two
stages. It matters little to them
how protracted the process, as
long as they are able to meddle
increasingly in Western European
affairs and to begin the process
of dismantling Western Europe’s
defence-system. That their ob-
jectives are primarily political is
shown by Marshal Bulganin's
indignant and boastful rejection
of any suggestion that the Soviet
Union itself was in any need
of security guarantees.
“The one clear and instructive
fact which emerged from the
conference was that the Rus-
sians have not the slightest in-
tention of abandoning Eastern
Germany unless and until they
are sure of getting Western
Germany as well.
“Nor was any progress made
on the problem of disarmament,
despite the grandiloquent phrases
scattered around. It is clear that,
within the framework of the
atomic stalemate, the only form
of disarmament the Russians are
interested in is that which leaves
them with military superiority
in Europe.
“On the final question on the
London “Daily Mail”
“EXCUSE ME!”
agenda—that of improving and
increasing exchanges between
East and West—the Russians
showed themselves in their true
colors once more. To the familiar
Western appeals to ojpen their
frontiers and allow the peoples
of East and West to get to know
each other they turned a deaf
ear. It was not a topic which
interested them. They have no
intention of dissolving the Iron
Curtain and allowing their sub-
jects to be exposed to Western
‘pollution.’
“Something less than progress
must be considered to have been
registered on those topics which
the Russians refused even to
consider. Of these, by far the
most important was the question
of the Communist regimes in
Eastern Europe. President Eisen-
hower alone referred to this
problem, only to have it scorn-
fully rejected by Marshal Bul-
ganin. It was not raised again.
“What, then, can be put on
the credit side in summing-up?
By far the most important posi-
tive result is that it has given—•
or should have given—Western
statesmen a much clearer idea
of Soviet policy and intentions.
“If we can learn the lessons of
Geneva, if we can rid ourselves
of illusions about Soviet policy
and if we can co-ordinate
Western policy more closely to
resist the Kremlin’s ‘monolithic’
methods, perhaps the conference
will not have been a complete
loss. With the Foreign Ministers’
meeting three months ahead, it
is still not too late.”
A U-Bomb?
American press-commentators
seem equally divided over the
existence or non-existence of a
U-bomb. The speculation, as
“U.S. News and World Report”
gives it, is based on the idea that
“to set-off the U-bomb, an A-
bomb is described as detonating
an H-bomb, which then explodes
the U-bomb”:
*l n this process, the atom is
split in the A-bomb explosion.
The great heat generated by this
splitting then fuses the atom in
the H-bomb. H-bomb fusion,
in turn, provides the much
greater heat and energy needed
to split the atom of ordinary
uranium—an abundant element.
“All of this conjecture,” the
publication adds, “flows from a
speech by scientist Willard F.
Libby, member of the U.S.
Atomic Energy Commission.
“Dr. Libby, in an address at
an alumni reunion at the Uni-
versity of Chicago, used the word
‘fission’—meaning to break apart
—in describing the kind of ex-
plosion that occurs in the latest
weapon in the atomic arsenal.
This is seen as an indication that
the latest weapon is not the H-
bomb, in which the explosive
power is generated by ‘fusion’ —
meaning to join together.
“Existence of a ‘U-bomb,’
however, is not confirmed offi-
cially. Neither is it denied offi-
cially.
“What is known as a fact is
this :
“The explosion that occurred
on March 1, 1954, on Bikini, one
of the Marshall Islands in the
Pacific, was an explosion of the
latest-type bomb. Describing
this bomb, A.E.C. chairman
Lewis L. Strauss spoke of it as
a ‘totally new weapon.’
“The size of the Bikini bomb
has never been officially reported.
However, Dr. Libby in his
Chicago speech referred to a
‘nuclear explosion releasing 10
megatons [lO million tons] of
fission energy.’
“Scientists who have described
this ultimate weapon as an A-
bomb and an H-bomb wrapped
in a blanket of ordinary uranium
say it can be made many times
bigger because of its comparative
simplicity and the cheapness of
ordinary uranium.”
Indo-China
At another Geneva conference
—just over a year ago, to decide
the fate of Indo-China —it was
agreed that in 12 months’ time
the Governments of North and
South Vietnam should begin to
discuss the elections by which
the country could be united.
The 12 months are up, but,
instead of discussion, rioting and
violence have characterised the
occasion, and the Premier of
South (non-Communist) Viet-
nam, Ngo Dinh Diem, has
shown an understandable reluct-
ance about the elections
“understandable” because, as
“New York Times” puts it, “the
North [Communist] exceeds the
South in population by about
3,000,000”:
“Under a Communist regime,
that North can be expected to
deliver a solid vote for the Reds.
Any man who voted No would
be taking his life in his hands.
If the vote is a straight numeri-
cal one the South can expect to
be swamped, and the so-called
‘Geneva settlement’ will simply
mean the sentencing of


KEROSENE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
lamps
.-—
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON \{ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD;
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Here’s one utility you must
see and drive . . .
The new
10CWT.
,COUPE
Toughest utility on the job ... smartest
coufje on the road. Combining all the
style and comfort features of the brilliant
new Vauxhall saloons... with a spacious
load compartment (571" x 80") on a
sturdy chassis frame, this hard-working,
3-passenger ■ utility offers good looks,
engineering excellence and outstanding
value.
With the famous 6-cylinder 23.44 h.p.
O.H.V. Velox engine of ‘over-square
design, the Vauxhall 10 cwt. Coupe
Utility has power to spare for any job
. . . brilliant performance in traffic or
on hills.
Sure, safe handling and driving ease are
assured with Vauxhall ‘balanced-ride
suspension and new flexible coupled
steering.
See the new Vauxhall 10 cwt. Coupe
Utility at your Vauxhall dealer’s NOW.
Ask about G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire
Purchase arrangements and the built
-for-Vauxhall ‘Air-Chief’ Car Radio.
yOL
front end styling with a new,
lower bonnet silhouette, im-
proves vision.
wx
interior Comfort and Beauty
with an entirely new instru-
ment panel, restyled door trim.
yA
electrical system control . . .
with ‘interruptor’ unit prevents
complete light failure.
flexible-coupled steering
absorbs road shocks.
flashing direction indicators,
front and rear.
longer life piston rings. The
top and second ring are now
thicker for better oil control.
Vauxhall 10-cwt. Coupe-Utility is priced at 1950 plus Sales Tax.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE •
Sold and serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
LTD.
PERTH
VU3/24
10,000,000 South Vietnamese to
life under the Communist yoke.”
To which London “Daily
Telegraph” adds that, “although
morally justified, Mr. Diem’s
policy is likely to lead to
disaster”:
“A refusal to hold the pre-
election talks would certainly
endanger the Geneva agree-
ments. But it was only these
agreements that last year pre-
vented Ho Chi-Minh [North
Vietnam] conquering the whole
of Vietnam by force. The
military position is the same
today. If Ho were to decide that
the South intended to disregard
the provisions of the agreements
he might well move across the
border in overwhelming strength.
Neither the Vietnam Army nor
the French expeditionary corps
could withstand such an inva-
sion. Nor is it likely that the
United States would intervene.
“Quite clearly, therefore, it is
important to give no excuse to
the Communists to resort to
force, of which they have a
virtual monopoly in the area.
“If, however, Mr. Diem did
agree to talk, the West should
make it quite clear that they
would support him in insisting
on every condition for free
elections. If the Communists
refused to accept these condi-
tions, then the case for elections
would, of course, fall to the
ground.”
On the same subject, London
“Observer” suggests “two
alternatives”:
“If the Communists in the
North were willing to accept, in
good time before the vote, free-
dom for the organisation and
propaganda of opposition parties
outside their ‘Front’—in return,
of course, for freedom of Com-
munist organisation and propa-
ganda in the South —and if
execution of this agreement was
ensured by an international com-
mission, the elections would be
free and fair.
“If the Communists rejected
that the Southern vote could be
counted separately and fusion
with the North be refused if the
South showed an anti-Com-
munist majority.”
"They Like Ike"
Commenting on what it
describes as the contrast in
America between the “heat and
bitterness” of a year ago and
the “calm, and restraint of
today,” “Manchester Guardian”
gives President Eisenhower a
good deal of the credit for the
change.
“It is not simply that the
threats of war, slump, and
McCarthy have subsided,” the
paper comments editorially. “It
is, above all, that the United
States has recovered its inner
self-confidence.
“The unreal fear of spies and
traitors seems to have died down,
and a schoolteacher need no
longer worry so much about
whether a chance remark may
result in his being hauled before
a State or Congressional
investigating-committee.
“President Eisenhower can
conduct a private correspondence
with Marshal Zhukov without
anyone worrying seriously. What
is more, he and Mr. Dulles can
go to meet the Soviet leaders at
Geneva without receiving strict
injunctions and prohibitions
from Congress. They are trusted,
as they should be, to conduct
America’s affairs with dis-
cretion.”
Asking “what has caused the
change,” the “M.G.” goes on
to say that “the President’s own
part has certainly been great”:
“He has at last begun to enjoy
his job. His patience has paid
and his middle-way has led him
to success. With McCarthy, for
example, he refused to take direct
action through months when it
was being urged on him, and in
the end McCarthy destroyed his
own reputation more thoroughly
than the President could have
done.
“On Far Eastern policy, to
take another example, he has
listened always to the advice of
Senator Knowland and others
who want to blockade China or
drop bombs, but he has acted on
it rarely. He vetoed intervention
at Dien Bien Phu, restrained the
admirals over Quemoy and
Matsu, and held back Chian g
and Rhee from fresh fighting.
“He has turned American
policy gradually towards dis-
engagement, and if today it still
has dangerous ambiguities it is
no longer so fraught with risk.
Or, to take a third example,
there has been his search for
a middle way between the hated
(in America) ‘creeping Socialism’
and unrestrained free enterprise.
“It would be wrong, of course,
to attribute too much to the
President himself. His patience
and moderation have been
effective only because they were
in tune with the underlying
commonsense of most
Americans.”
U.S. Inflation?
Under the heading “Who Has
Inflated Most?” London “Finan-
cial Times” analyses a report by
the National Bank of Egypt on
the note-circulation movements
over the five years following the
general currency realignment in
1949. The report, the “F.T.”
comments, shows striking differ-
ences in the pace at which addi-
tional money has been created
in the main trading countries:
“The survey divides countries
into three groups —those with
‘low’ increases of up to 20 per
cent., those with ‘medium’
increases of between 20 and 45
per cent, and those with ‘high’
increases of more than 45 per
cent.
“In the first classification are
Belgium, Egypt, India, the
Netherlands, Switzerland, Den-
mark and the U.S., the American
movement at 9.2 per cent, being
one of the lowest on the entire
list.
“In the second group are
Canada, Irak, Lebanon, New
Zealand, Norway and the U.K.,
the British rise coming out at 27
per cent.
“The third group is made up
of Australia, France, Western
Germany, Italy, Japan, Turkey,
Sweden and Finland. In the case
of one of these countries —
France —the note - issue was
doubled in the 1949-54 period,
and in four other instances —
Australia, Japan, Turkey and
Finland—the upward movement
exceeded 60 per cent.”
Despite th e comparatively
small increase in the Ameri-
can note-issue, Uncle Sam’s
economy, booming as it is, is
being watched with nervous
suspicion by a number of
economists and others for any
telltale signs of a “bust.”
One commentator David
Lawrence, in New York “Herald
Tribune” —considers that today’s
“biggest story in America is the
creeping inflation that has
set-in,” and goes on to suggest
that this inflation “may eventu-
ally bring the value of the dollar
down from around 50 cents,
where it is at present, to 20
cents, or even lower in the next
two decades.”
Lawrence sees an indication of
this “creeping inflation” in the
stockmarket boom —“the stock-
market senses inflation faster
nowadays than it does any other
influence, and security-values
jump upward accordingly.” He
adds that the most sensational
recent inflation-news is the steel
companies’ increase of $7.50 a
ton in the price of steel follow-
ing a 15-cents-an-hour increase
in steelworkers’ wages.
“That’s about a 5 per cent,
increase,” Lawrence comments,
“and anybody who thinks you
can put into effect a 5 per cent,
increase in steel-prices without
affecting almost the entire manu-
facturing economy of America
isn’t looking facts in the face.”
After commenting on the
monopolistic powers of big
corporations and unions alike,
Lawrence notes that “the smaller
units in business which used to
cut prices because they didn’t
need to pay as high wages as
their big competitors are now
being gradually forced out of
business. Monopolies and
quasi-monopolies today are in
command of the nation’s
economy.
“The outlook,” Lawrence con-
cludes, “is for more and more
inflation, and, of course, more
and more devaluation in the
purchasing-power of the dollar,
higher and higher prices and a
gradual depreciation of the
value of pensions and retirement
benefits. Labor-union leaders
are forgetting tomorrow and
living only in today’s atmosphere
of rivalry, in which one labor
chief vies with another to get
the maximum. Strikes are too
costly to be endured, so manage-
ment gives in without a struggle.
Then, as if convinced that the
public will not mind, the price-
increases are announced almost
immediately after the termina-
tion of the wage-controversies
with the unions.
“The end result —economic
depression—will not be apparent
till it comes. For economic laws
are never repealed. The
inevitability of a price-spiral and
a consequent reduction in the
dollar’s value are as plain to see
today as they have been in
similar periods in the economic
history of the world. Bad
economic practices do not
always make headlines but
they can make breadlines.”
Various Voices
The Duke of Edinburgh, on
Britain’s roads: “Here, if it is a
good road it is so full of other
motorists that you do not get
there. If it is not full of
motorists it probably does not
go where you want to go. If you
get there you probably will not
find anywhere to park.”
Nehru: “It seems to me that
not only in Europe, but perhaps
in the world, we are at a rather
psychological moment in history
—a ‘turning-point’ if you like.
There is a turning-away from
the tense atmosphere of conflict
and cold war towards peace. I
do not suppose that complete
peace and the like will emerge
suddenly. But it is a turning-
point, and there is a strong feel-
ing among people of all
countries in favor of it. And I
have a feeling that even poli-
ticians are affected by it.”


Invest in
an AGA cooker
and save in 4 ways
Only AGA guarantee a maximum fuel
consumption.
No matter how much or how many you
cook for you will never exceed the amount
of coke set down in your guarantee. Big fuel
savings more than offset the higher initial
cost. As you can buy your AGA cooker on
easy terms your fuel savings help buy it
for you.
w *" b ®bbbbi
s \
LEVIN fife CO. LTD.
SI-57 GOULBUBN ST., SYDNEY
432 BOURKE ST.. MELBOURNE
113 GRENFELL St., ADELAIDE
CNR. MARGARET & ALBERT STS., BRISBANE
MALLOCH BROS.
50 WILLIAM ST., PERTH
El 54
Only AGA give this guarantee.
AGA is guaranteed for 10 years which
means that you get virtually a lifetime
of service from your cooker.
3
Ample hot water. Only the AGA-CB
provides a trouble-free supply of hot
water to sink, bathroom and laundry.
er or controls to fiddle with
4
Saves time and effort.
Continuous in operation—you can go
out and leave your meal cooking without
worrying. Dishes can be left to simmer for
24 hours. It boils a 4-pint kettle of water
in 4 minutes. Better insulated than any
other cooker. Your kitchen will be warm
in Winter—cool in Summer. The advantages
of owning an AGA cooker are many, as
any of the more than 10,000 AGA owners in
Australia could tell you.
POST THIS COUPON TO-DAY
to your nearest capital city
Please send me complete details free and
without obligation: —
NAME
ADDRESS
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
69 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark—are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
O’Brien lumbered across from
his own part of the room:
“Excuse me, Miss MacMillan,
but I’ll do the mats if they must
be done. Three days a week
I’ll do them. That’s more than
they need. It’s no good for Mr.
Pettifer’s asthma shaking them
mats. Specially as it’s the night
cleaner’s job and this lunch-hour
work is something extra we took
on to oblige.”
“And for which you are paid
extra, Mr. O’Brien.”
“Some things there’s no
money’d make up for, Miss
MacMillan.”
And then she uttered, on the
spur of the moment, the sentence
that was to have such unexpected
results: “I agree, Mr. O’Brien,”
she said, “and I must say no
money makes it worth my while
to work in this revolting atmo-
sphere. I should not be sur-
prised,” she went on, “if this
place were not riddled with
bugs.”
Dan rumbled into enormous
laughter. “Bugs,” he chortled,
“you only find in houses. Where
people eat and sleep.”
“Eating and sleeping are both
performed on these premises. I
have seen Pettifer asleep. He’s
quite unsuitable to be here.
Much too old.”
The effort of keeping his
temper caused Dan’s faee and
neck to match the fuzz showing
through his open collar. He
turned away and, as he made his
way back to his own cleaning
equipment, her voice followed
him:
“And if I ever do find a bug
here I must say that, Manpower
or no Manpower . . . ugh! ”
Mr. Pettifer during this ex-
change had returned with the
mats, replaced them, and then
methodically mopped strips of
floor several aisles away, seeming
to pay no attention to what was
said. But when his job was fin-
ished and he returned to the
desk he and Dan shared by the
entrance-door he remarked,
“Much obliged about the mats,
Dan.”
It was the first time he had
given the other man any thanks
for his well-meant actions.
O’Brien, looking at him
awkwardly, found this gratitude
embarrassing. He was surprised
to see, on the prim little face,
a wrinkled smile, and even more
astonished when the pursed lips
opened to announce in precise
tones:
“She’s a bitch.”
" You’ve said it, Mr. Pettifer.”
“She should be released from
this job. Trouble-maker.”
“You know as well as me . . .
Manpower.”
“Faith, Dan, might even move
Manpower,” observed Mr.
Pettifer slyly.
A FEW days after this Mr.
Pettifer arrived carrying a
small neat parcel which he placed
carefully on his desk. Dan
O’Brien was out most of the
morning collecting weekly time-
sheets for the pay section and
Mr. Pettifer, left to himself, com-
pleted his routine work swiftly.
He then placed his little parcel
in the pocket of his shiny old
working-coat and wandered out
into the main office, where he
pottered about with a duster,
filling inkwells, doing mental
arithmetic for the less mathe-
matically minded girl clerks, and
generally making himself agree-
able.
When Miss MacMillan took
her towel and soap and left the
room he was even sufficiently
forbearing to use his duster
vigorously on her desk and chair,
straightening the pencil-tray and
replacing neatly the stack of
bills on which she was working.
Then, glancing at the office clock,
he trotted over to the front desk,
arriving simultaneously with the
daily special-delivery postman.
He was signing for the day’s
batch of registered mail, noting
each article accurately and ab-
sorbedly, when Miss MacMillan
returned. The postman’s routine
quip a§ to the neatness of Mr.
Pettifer’s mailbook and the grace
of his red-ink flourishes was . . .
“Eeeek!” Everyone in the
office jumped, turned to the
source of the scream, and saw
Miss MacMillan, eyes staring,
mouth open, face the color of
Harston’s dust, standing at her
-desk and . . .
“Eeeek oww oh! ” The
gradually subsiding noise pene-
trated, in its first excess, through
the glass panel of the office
where Mr. Collingwood and
Mr. Dougall Harston, Chair-
man of Directors, were
scrutinising a sheaf of specifi-
cations. Those two gentlemen
also looked round just as Miss
MacMillan pulled herself to-
gether sufficiently to take the
topmost bill from the pile beside
her machine and fold it care-
fully corner to corner. Then,
without a word to anyone
(and no one had yet spoken
to her), she marched directly
towards the accountant’s room
and, without so much as a
knock, and with only a glare
for Mr. Dougall Harston, she
advanced to Mr. Collingwood’s
desk.
“I Jiave always said this place
was unfit to work in, and there’s
your proof!” she cried in the
most acidulous tone Mr. Col-
lingwood, with long experience
of the nuances of her diction,
had heard. Mr. Dougall Harston
meanwhile peered on to Mr. Col-
lingwood’s blotter and appeared
to be taking an almost clinical
interest in the four fat bugs
which crawled sluggishly in the
daylight. He listened patiently to
her account of the discovery.
“Better have the place fumi-
gated, this weekend if possible,
Collingwood,” he said.
When Miss MacMillan had at
last retreated Mr. Collingwood
remarked that he had no doubt
the whole affair “was a put-up
job.”
“I agree. I agree. Still . . .
a good idea in case any of the
staff take it seriously. Mean-
while, if you would be kind
enough to recall that harpy 1
have a suggestion to make to
her.”
“'T'HE Director-General of
Manpower, etc., etc.
“. . . . and I therefore, in view of
the impossibility of the above
working conditions, request that
arrangements be made for my
transfer to any other form of
employment whatsoever.
Yours faithfully,
(Miss) Elsie MacMillan.”
“The Director-General of Man-
power, etc., etc.
• . . and in support of the en-
closed application for transfer
of Elsie MacMillan . . . further-
more, although no traces of
colonies of vermin were found
by the pest-exterminators who
fumigated these premises (report
enclosed), it is an undeniable
fact that the entire staff of this
office witnessed Miss Mac-
Millan’s action in removing four
of the above insects from her
desk. We do not suggest that
this employee is wilfully dis-
honest but she would appear to
be unbalanced and hysterical
and an unsuitable person to be
in charge of a section in works
which, as this firm does, are
handling highly confidential
orders. For these reasons and in
the interests of National Secur-
ity we request that the matter
of her transfer to employment
requiring less stringent person-
ality qualifications be treated as
a matter of urgency.
Yours faithfully,
Dougall Harston,
(Chairman of Directors.)”
Letter dated July, 1944,
received at the office by Mr.
Pettifer.
. . . very grateful to you for
your letters to the hospital.
Since I been O.K. to work
again I got a part-time job right
here near home in a tannery
here that makes leather for the
boys’ boots. It’s pongy I’ll say,
but I don’t mind that, and who
do you think has been here two
years now with good reason for
looking as if there’s a bad smell
under her snout. That Mac-
Millan dame you might
remember that used to make us
shake the mats. Glad to hear
you’re still O.K. and who would
have thought I’d be the one to
have got sick. . -
Your friend,
Dan.”
cartoons, portraits and
humorous pictures. A. G.
Stephens wrote an introduction
on the life of the artist, whose
drawings appeared in The
Bulletin’s pages from 1886 to
1888, and there is an extensive
bibliographical appendix. The
value of Phil May in Australia
is considerably enhanced if the
owner of a copy also possesses
copies of the two catalogues of
drawings by Phil May, offered
for sale by The Bulletin in
Sydney and Melbourne in 1903.
The catalogues are not complete
without the two supplements of
prices realised at both sales.
A feature of On the Hop is
the preface entitled “Hop: His
Troubles,” which is the artist-
author’s own autobiography.
Fine copies of the de luxe
edition are said to be practically
unprocurable today.
When A. G, Stephens left
The Bulletin, “in a huff and in
a hurry,” towards the end of
1906, the management decided
not to publish any more books,
and between then and 1930,
when The Bulletin, took to
publishing books again, the
only entry in the Mackaness and
Stone bibliography of any im-
portance is “The Lone Hand,”
although such “house”-
publications as “The Bulletin
Picnic Annual,” “A Souvenir of
The , Bulletin Corroboree,” and
the booklet issued on the occa-
sion of the marriage of Norman
Macleod and Eileen O’Sullivan
contains information interesting
to students of the history of
The Bulletin.
The publication of “The Lone
Hand,” a monthly magazine
established in 1907, was an
ambitious venture urged upon
the management by J. F. Archi-
bald, who had retired from the
editorship of The Bulletin in
1902, had been inactive there-
after, and wanted a magazine to
play with.
Six months after “The Lone
Hand” started Archibald had a
breakdown, and, although he
recovered, he was never his old
self again. He* sold all his
Bulletin interests in 1914,
about the same time as “The
Lone Hand” passed out of The
Bulletin’s hands. The maga-
zine was a losing venture ; what-
ever the cause, it was not any
lack of brilliance on the part of
the editors and contributors.
The truth probably is that Aus-
tralia was not ready for a
high-class magazine, of its
description.
Had Dr. Mackaness and Mr.
Stone decided to include the
publications of the Endeavour
Press (a Bulletin offshoot,
financed by The Bulletin and
entirely under Bulletin con-
trol) the entries in their biblio-
graphy would have had the
addition of some important con-
tributions to Australian litera-
ture ; with “bibliographical
exactitude,” they restricted their
entries to publications actually
bearing The Bulletin imprint.
This explains the absence of
such noteworthy books as Brian
Penton’s Landtakers and Kylie
Tennant’s Tiburon, to mention
only two ; it also explains the
absence of “The , Australian
Woman’s Mirror,” a Bulletin
publication if ever there was one.
On the other hand, The
Woman’s Mirror Cookery Book
comes into the listing.
During the past 24 years The
Bulletin, in addition to
“house”-publications, has pub-
lished political pamphlets, a
book for golfers, two reprints
from its “Man on the Land”
pages Farm Accounts and
Handy Hints for the Farm —two
books for children by Mary and
Elizabeth Durack, two collec-
tions of drawings by Ted
Scorfield, and the highly success-
ful Letters of Rachel Henning,
illustrated by Norman Lindsay.
Two novels of this period
bearing The Bulletin imprint,
and therefore included in the
listing, are Dymphna Cusack’s
Jungfrau and Miles Franklin’s
All That Swagger, the latter the
winner of the 1936 S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize.


Does mote
jobs of
less cost!
More versatile because it has
more Farm-right Features than
any other tractor
The range of jobs you can do with the Fordson
Major is greater than with any other tractor . . .
because Fordson alone has all the farm-right
features necessary for straight agricultural jobs
and “round-the-farm” maintenance and con-
struction work.
And the latest overhead valve, low-friction
engines provide more power for the use of
less fuel . . . mean
and more income
less work per farmer
per acre.
FARM-RIGHT
IN LINKAGE
WORK
£3
“Touch-control” hydraulics and
3-point linkage allow faster, surer
control of mounted implements.
FARM-RIGHT IN
TRAILING WORK
6-Speed transmission, lower centre
of gravity, choice of power-take-off
position with raised or direct drive
and more power at the drawbar
mean new efficiency with broad-
acre implements.
FARM-RIGHT IN
APPLIED WORK
Matched to the efficiency of Ford-
son Major, a versatile range of
implements and equipment means
easy, one-man handling of round-
the-farm maintenance
and construction work.
ij
L
5 t 1
n
'kerosene^
£9lB
WITH PNEUMATIC
Sl TYRES /
PRICES J
F. 0.8. I
FORD ]
PLANTS
Your Fordson Dealer will arrange a
demonstration on your property.
rental
Your local Fordson dealer will supply further details.
FM7A-a6
Listen to the FORD SHOW on any of the 65 Stations in the nation-wide weekly broadcast
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Drum for Ben
Boyd, by Francis Webb. —6123.
To sell copy of Baker and Smith’s
Research on the Eucalypts. —6124.
To buy medals of Australian
Senior Cadet Competitions. Also
badges of 4th and Bth Light Horse,
Ist A.1.F6125.
Copy of old magazine containing a
black-and-white drawing of a bullock-
team.—6l26.
Copies of books and magazines
containing poems by the late H. E.
Home, M.L.C. —6127.
Copies of newspapers and maga-
zines containing articles concerning
Barbara Baynton and her writings.
-6128.
Information Sought
Formula for calculating energy o'f
motion of a pendulum,?
The motion of a pendulum is
generally defined as that due to a
torce which is proportional to the
distance from, and always directed
towards, a fixed point. This fixed
point becomes the centre <af the
motion; it is also the position of
equilibrium (.no motion). The most
easily conceived formula for the
energy of the motion is that for
kinetic energy (i.e., energy due to
velocity), when the moving object
passes through the position of
equilibrium. This is £MV (squared),
where M is the mass and V the
velocity through the position of
equilibrium in the case of rectilinear
motion (i.e., due to springs, etc.). In
rotational motion (smail-amphtude
vibrations of a pendulum), energy is
best given by i 1W (squared), where I
is the moment of inertia (i.e., the
equivalent of mass) and W is the
angular velocity in radians per second
(i.e., the velocity). The total energy
would also depend on the position of
the pendulum relative to the fixed
point. When a constant force F is
applied to the moving object, which
moves through a distance S, the
formula for total energ’y can be given
as F x S. However, in practical calcu-
lations, a number of other indetermin-
ates would have to be considered:
viscosity of air (which varies with
different speeds of the pendulum),
air-pressure, air-temperature, shape of
pendulum, etc.
* * * *
I came to Australia in 1924 from
England and am 60 years old. 1 was
wounded in France in 1917 while
serving with the British Army, and
served with the Australian Forces for
four years in World War 11, but did
not leave Australia. Am I entitled to
a Repatriation Service-pension ?
On the information supplied it
appears that you would not qualify
for a Service-pension under the
•Repatriation Act. In respect of
World War I service with the British
Army, you could qualify only if you
could prove domicile in Australia
immediately prior to such service; but
it seems that you came to Australia
only in 1924. With regard to your
World War II service, you could
qualify only if (a) you served in a
theatre of war, or (b) you are suffer-
ing from pulmonary tuberculosis.
You say that you did not leave Aus-
tralia. The only “theatre of war”
within Australia was the area north
of 14.5 degrees south latitude during
the period Feb. 2, 1942, to Nov. 12,
1943; and you would need to have
served there for a period of at least
three months during that time. If
you travelled by ship outside the
limits of Australian territorial-waters
you could also qualify. 'Hie subject
of eligibility for Repatriation Act
benefits is rather complicated, and
you would be well advised to contact
the Repatriation Department, Perth,
as to your position.
* * * *
Some details concerning the evolu-
tion of sheep-shearing machinery and
its introduction and first use in
Australia ?
Towards the end of the 19 th
century there were many attempts to
invent a sheep-shearing machine. In
1869 Moore and Newman patented a
machine, and two years later a man
named Smith also took out a patent
on a machine of his own invention.
These early machines were based on
the horse-clipping machine then in
use, but did not prove satisfactory
for shearing sheep. On March 2,
1868, a patent was granted to James
Higham, of Melbourne. This
machine had a semicircular comb
with a serrated edge on which
revolved a two-bladed cutter. It was
driven by a turbine through a chain
of gears. The next patent was
taken out on May 25, 1870, by
J. E. A. Gwynne, of London. This
machine was completely hand-
operated and was not commercially
practicable. Progress. towards an
effective machine was made by F. Y.
Wolesley, who had come to Australia
in 1854. During the years 1867-68
he carried out experiments on War-
breccan, Deniliquin (N.S.W.). In
1872 he evolved a working-model
which was not, however, satisfactory.
In 1874 he returned to Australia after
a trip to America, and after further
experiments, was granted a patent
on March 28, 1877. In conjunction
with Robert Savage he continued to
work on sheep-shearing machinery,
and on December 12, 1877, they were
granted a further patent. It was
not, however, until Wolesley was
joined by John Howard, a Melbourne
engineer, that real progress was made
towards the development of a com-
pletely satisfactory machine. In 1885
they worked together, eliminated
several mechanical difficulties and
produced a machine that was satis-
factory for shearing sheep. Wolesley
went to Melbourne in 1885 to give
demonstrations and to form a com-
pany to promote the production of
the new machine. Sheep-shearing
machinery was first used at a general
shearing in 1889 at Sir Samuel
McCaughey’s property, Dunlop,
when 184,000 sheep were shorn by
the machine.
* * * *
What sculptors were responsible for
the following statues and pieces of
statuary in Sydney: (7) Queen Vic-
toria, (2) King Edward VII, (3)
Prince Albert, (4) Governor Phillip,
(5) Captain Cook, (6) Matthew
Flinders, (7) Cardinal Moran, (8)
Archbishop Kelly, (9) Dr. Lang, (10)
Thomas' Sutcliffe Mort, (11) Henry
Lawson, (12) William Bede Dailey,
(13) Robert Burns, (14) the Shak-
spearian group outside the Mitchell
Library, (15) the figures on the Ceno-
taph, (16) the figure on the war
memorial in St. Mary’s Basilica, (17)
the Archibald Memorial, and (18) the
figures on the Anzac Memorial ?
(1) Joseph Edgar Boehm, (2) Sir
Thomas Brock, (3) W. Theed (4)
Achille Simonetti, (5) Thomas Wool-
ner, (6) W. R. Colton, (7), (8), (14)
and (15) Bertram Mackennal, (9)
Giovanni Fontana, (10) Pierce F.
Connolly, (11) and (16V George
Lambert, (12) James White, (13)
G. Pomeroy, (17) Francois Sicard, (18)
Rayner Hoff, assisted by Eileen
McGrath, O. Steen, J. H. Moorfield
and others.
Brief Answers
D.M.McP.: On figures given, you
would be entitled to an age-pension
at £142 per annum. If you can
support your application with a
medical certificate stating you are
permanently incapacitated for work,
your wife would be entitled t°
allowance of £5l per annum. The
value of a vehicle which is for private
use only does not affect pension
entitlement... .P.G.: Write Division
of Plant Industry, Department ot
Agriculture, Sydney, for leaflet
“Poisoning Green Timber with
Arsenic Compounds” M.E .H.:
W. H. Paling and Co., Ltd., 338
George-street, Sydney, can supply a
copy of Barrack Room Ballads, by
Rudyard Kipling, set to music by
various composers. Price is 4s. 3d.,
plus postage... .R.0.K.T.M.: Mr.
Justice Ashburner (N.S.W.) was
Rhodes Scholar in 1928, was educated
at Scots College, Sydney; the Uni-
versity of Sydney; Oxford University.
C.McL.: Write Under-Secretary,
Department of Agriculture, Farrer-
place, Sydney G.H.: Write
Tyrrell’s Bookshop, 202 George-
street, Sydney C.0’8.: Write
Lewis Berger and Sons, Box 23, Post
Office, Burwood (N.S.W.) C.S.:
No information available, and local
potters are sceptical of any such
process. Materials mentioned have
been known for generations, but as
nothing has been produced of any
practical use, it may be assumed that
the long-sought non-fired ware has
not yet been made possible. A small
group of American potters has
claimed the discovery or invention of
a cement-like material which can be
half-baked in a domestic oven, but
as it has to be glazed with a lacquer,
it is not pottery; only clay fired at
great heat produces the useful and
beautiful articles of the potter s
craft J.R.G.: Write Marjorie A.
Higgins, general-secretary, St. John
Ambulance Association, 21 Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney J.V.8.: (1)
Correct name is tamarix, or flower-
ing cypress. Being deciduous, it
should be cut back fairly hard now.
This shrub is subject to borers, so
should be watched carefully for
them. (2) The poinsettia needs
cutting back hard, in winter. Cut
just above an eye S.C.C.: Ronald
McCuaig’s “A Ballad of Blood-
thirsty Bessie” appeared in The
Bulletin of September 19, 1951...*
A.G.C.: (1) Pronounced with the
accent on the first syllable, and with
either the short-“a” or the longer (as
in “arm”). (2) Yes, it means a
secluded spot” C.H.W.: No
specific information available on the
ramifications of “off-the-course
betting in N.S.W R.C.: Wnte
Gaston C. Renard, antiquarian
bookseller, Box 5295bb, G.P.0., Mel-
bourne J.H.: James Brunton
Stephens was born at Borrow-
stonness, Scotland, on June 17, 1835,
and died at Brisbane on June 29,
1902 H.D.M.: Write I. Berkelouw,
Riverview, The Kingsway, Roseville
(N.5.W.)....F.McC.: (1) “The Port
Phillip Gazette” is printed and pub-
lished by the Rising Sun Press, 192
Canterbury-road, Canterbury (Vic.).
(2) “Speewa” is the journal of the
Australian Folklore Society, and is
obtainable from the editor, Jeffrey
Way, 45 Chelsea-street, Redfern
(N S.W.). (3) “The Free Spirit” is
the journal of the Australian Com-
mittee for Cultural Freedom and is
obtainable from H. R. Krygier, 328
Edgecliff-road, Woollahra (N.S.W.).
(4) “The Australian Quarterly” is
published by the Australian Institute
of Political Science, 34 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney... .D.P.: Write C.
Price Conigrave, general-secretary,
Royal Australian Historical Society,
History House, 8 Young-street. Syd-
ney; annual subscription is £3 35.,
with an entrance-fee of £1 Is. for
new members R.L.K.: Write
H. M. Butterly, honorary-secretary,
the English Association (Sydney
branch), 25 Hanna-street, Beecroft
(N S W.)... .E.T.: l Look at Aus-
tralia, by Grace L. Pring, published
by the author, Sydney, 1953.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary .
E.J.P.: No rocking-chair at 252
George-street for Grandma.... J.A.:
We could see the finish a mile off,
L.H.K.: Needs condensing and a
more authentic ending F.W.: A
couple of old pugs whom we keep
about the premises reckon that it
could not have happened N.D.:
It needs a more experienced hand
than yours to handle that theme
F.C.: Far too long for what is con-
tained within and as amateurish as
the amateurs you write about
BN.F.: It would take more than a
grain of salt to swallow that im-
possibility. .. .H.V.C.: Condensed, it
might scrape through as an
“Aboriginalities” paragr a p h....
F. 8.8.: Conventional Z.V.W.: It
has a lean-and-hungry look E.S.:
Interesting central character; story
needs building-up, and cut out the
cliches J.A.W.: That story is a
complete wash-0ut.... L.R.: Try
singing it in the Sydney Domain
H.H.: “The Cook’s Offsider” was
given his marching-orders 8.J.H.:
Too far-fetched E.L.H.S.: Never
at any time did it look like a winner.
M.A.: We were deafened by the
death-rattles... .E.L.R.: Not tempted
by the lass in the long white night-
gown. .. .G.H.M.T.: Rather than
print that triviality we will drink the
weedkiller ourself 5.8.: Fleets of
smarter windjammers than the
Maria have sailed into our pages
E.M.E.: That coolibah-tree is in
urgent need of fertilising
L.E.D.M.H.: Little to either.


A MODERN
SANITARY
SYSTEM
For all unsewered areas
Vi &&V:
'"-4. i
! m
:?>
m
m
Wvv^X«Va«W
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Even if you live in an unsewered area where there is no water supply,
you can still enjoy modern sanitation.
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. No more
unpleasant emptying! Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained
sanitary system that chemically transforms sewerage into a sterile
solution. This passes automatically to an underground sump and is
absorbed into the soil. v
GUARANTEED. Strongly (constructed with all-over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install—write now for free illus-
trated pamphlet. Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
■ DISTRIBUTORS'
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A. ;
TAS.:
DARWIN:
Singapore:
N.Z.:
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S?v la ® lssol y en ®t°r Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William Street, Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hyg*e ia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also Launceston,
Tasmania.
C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z. -
NIH9XIH UflOA UOJ
MNIS UHHId 3HA
Beautifully finished
K‘‘;hed stainless steel,
to dishes, saves work,
everlasting. There's a
size to suit your kitchen—
single or double bowl—ready
for installation.
For illustrated folder and
prices, see your hardware
merchant or write to
Wunderlich Limited,
Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
w
jp:
I STAINLESS
STEEL
SINKS
ASK FOR THEM AT YOUR
LOCAL HARDWARE STORE
The Most Effective Remeffyfo^
MILK FEVER/
U/s
W
ICI
5AG.35X.735
CALCIUM BORO-GLUCONATE
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
POULTRY FOR PROFIT
r T'HE poultry-industry in Aus-
tralia is in a bad way;
the Bureau of Agricultural
Science, after an Australia-wide
survey, has issued a report; and
two important facts have
emerged: There’s a general lack
of efficiency throughout the in-
dustry, and production per bird
is too low.
Eggs per bird on the farms
studied ranged from 84 to 192
a year, and the average number
of birds that could be handled
by one man was only 1220,
whereas on an efficient farm it’s
around the 2000 mark.
There are many ways of in-
creasing the lay per bird, but
assuming that correct feeding is
now general, there are two
trends that must be followed:
There must be a switch from
pure- to cross-breds, and there
must be a greater proportion of
pullets to hens.
Cross-breds are far and away
better layers than pure-breds;
of the farms taken in the survey,
the most successful were those
running the biggest percentage
of cross-breds. Whether he likes
it or not, the poultryfarmer who
wants to stay in the game will
have to run these birds. ■
This doesn’t mean that the
industry will be given over
entirely to crosses; in fact,
there’ll need to be even greater
concentration on pure strains,
because the value of the crosses
depends on the parent-stock. So
breeding will become even more
of a specialist’s job and will be
almost completely divorced from
that of egg- or poultrymeat-
production. The day has passed
when the egg-producer could
economically keep his own pen
of breeding-stock and send his
own eggs to the hatchery. In
future he’ll buy all his chicks,
and he’ll naturally want to get
them from the breeder with good
stock.
This will improve the industry
in two ways. It will get rid of
all male birds from egg-farms,
where they have no place; and
it will establish strong, competi-
tive breeding-farms on which it
will be possible to spend time
and money on improving breeds.
As regards the proportion of
pullets to hens, the most suc-
cessful farmers in the survey
were those who ran a big pro-
portion of pullets, replacing the
bulk of their stock every year.
Some ran 100 per cent, pullets,
but probably 70 per cent, is
a good figure to aim at. By cull-
ing hard and keeping only the
very best of second-year hens, a
farmer may be able to select
those it will pay to keep; but,
in the main, first-year layers
produce up to 25 per cent, more
eggs in the year than do second-
year hens. They cost more to
feed, but the extra yield more
than makes up for that.
The bureau’s report largely
substantiates the findings of the
Government pilot-farms here in
W.A., where pullets are favored
and first-cross pullets have
proved themselves ahead of all
the pure breeds.
The other big factor
influencing production the
number of birds that can be
handled by one man —depends
very largely on the layout of the
farm, and here most poultrymen
are at fault, one way or another.
Many of them walk miles further
a day than they should, feeding,
watering, and gathering eggs;
they permit eggs to become dirty
—either by being laid in inferior
types of nests, or by being
trodden on by hens that have to
walk through dirt to get to the
nests —and, apart from the loss
through inferior grades, there’s
a lot of time wasted trying to
clean them.
As an example of bad layout
and management a Northern
Territory camp during the war
can be quoted. There an Army
group was given the job of
managing a poultryfarm in-
tended to supply troops with
fresh eggs. The place was badly
laid out, with no consideration
for distance walked at each
operation ; the watering-system
was antiquated, and the troughs
had to be emptied often, as the
water became hot; and eggs
were laid all over the place and
collecting them took hours.
Cleaning-out, of course, was
heart-breaking. Result was that
20 men were working hard and
long hours to look after about
10,000 birds.
Then an officer arrived who
knew his job. He altered doors
and gates, arranged perches,
fixed-up an efficient watering-
system, and managed comfort-
ably with half-a-dozen soldier-
laborers.
That’s an extreme case. But
there are any number of com-
mercial poultryfarms where a
little commonsense would cut
labor by half. This doesn’t mean
that the farmer would have more
leisure. It means that he could
double his stock, his returns, and
his profits. And in the present
condition of the markets a lot
of farmers will have to do that
if they’re to stay in the industry.
Nangabrook.
Storage of Oranges
“Big Billy”: Behavior of
oranges in storage has been
studied for several years by the
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture, and some interesting
facts have come to light,
G. B. Tindale, who conducted
the tests, points out that oranges
in cool-storage gradually lose
their flavor. They also decline in
acidity and appear to become
sweeter as storage proceeds.
After they lose their flavor there
is a rapid onset of moulds.
The inquiries were directed,
particularly, at problems of
wastage by early mould-attack.
Navel oranges, apparently, can
be almost completely safeguarded
from penicillin-mould if dipped
before storage in a fungicidal
dip, or by wrapping them before
storage in diphenyl wraps.
Navels are subject to various
disorders if stored at low
temperatures, susceptibility
depending on the maturity of the
fruit, the early-picked oranges
being much more susceptible
than the late-picked.
Because of this, early-picked
navels (June pick) store best at
45 degrees, while later-picked
navels (July-August pick) store
best at 40 degrees. When stored
at 35 degrees, storage-disorders
develop in early, mid-season and
late-picked oranges at one-and-
a-half months. When stored at
32 degrees, storage-disorders
develop after two weeks. When
disorders develop, heavy wast-
age by mould-attack follows.
The low temperatures not only
cause disorders to develop, but
also result in the oranges losing
their natural resistance to mould-
attack.
Tindale found that the early-
picked (June) oranges have their
longest storage-life, three months,
at 45 degrees; the mid-season
(July) have their longest life,
three months, at 40 degrees ; and
the late-picked (August) oranges
"Quads, Mrs. Kanga? Congratulations !”
have their longest life, two
months, at 40 degrees.
Tindale advocates a shipping-
temperature of 40 degrees for
export to England; but for
export to near countries, like
N.Z. or the East, a shipping-
temperature of 35 degrees is
advised. At that temperature
better control of early mould-
attack is effected, while the
storage-period of six weeks is not
long enough! for disorders to
develop. L
The Breeding-sow
“Mackay”: Breeding - sows
need a lot of tucker when preg-
nant, rearing a litter, and be-
tween times. When there is
plenty of skim-milk the sow
gets her share, but when milk is
short in autumn and summer she
is often in dangerously poor
condition by the time the litter
is weaned. If she is turned-out
on indifferent pasture, with no
supplementary feeding, she
comes close to starvation-level.
C. E. Ballinger, in New
Zealand, has demonstrated that
a sow subjected to this treatment
may not come in season, if she
does come in season may not
hold to service and, if she does,
may abort. Infertility usually
follows. In Australia farmers
have been demonstrating the
same thing for years, and blam-
ing the boar, the Government,
or mysterious diseases for their
“bad luck with pigs.”
Lack of vitamin-A (present in
green-feed) is another cause of
infertility.
In winter, when the milk-
supply is down, the breeding-
sow needs a daily ration of lib.


The "FARMERS 1 BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows,
Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illustrated is the
“FARMERS’
BOY”
ROTARY
EOE,
[Oj
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particulars
and for free demonstrations of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’IAND: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Tou -will at once, withcmt effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARKERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3t), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
NEW IMPROVED
SHEEP BRANDING FLUID
Manufactured by the major wool processing company in Australia.
The company that knows from years of experience what can and
what cannot be removed from shorn wool.
Exclusive use of
iH
SI-RO-MARK enhances the •
value of your clip because although durable, it is
readily scourable
HENRY B. SMITH - LIMITED
AT THE GATEWAY TO MELBOURNE
559-565 SPENCER STREET. Tel. FJ 1608
If you have any difficulty in obtaining supplies, mail this coupon to-
HENRY B. SMITH LIMITED
Box 4506 G.P.0., Melbourne
Please Dispatch to —
NAME...
ADDRESS
Number of Tins 1 Gal. Red
Green.
Blue @ 25/
Blue
13/4
to 21b. of concentrates, contain-
ing at least £lb. of meat-meal.
The actual amount of con-
centrates to be given can only
be determined by the sow’s
general condition. If she
farrows in winter and no milk
is available, she needs at least
81b. of concentrates daily, plus
as many potatoes and turnips
as she can eat. When there are
no root - crops, concentrates
should be increased to 101 b. to
121 b. daily.
This grain-ration should be
increased gradually. Sudden,
bulky feeding at farrowing-time
can cause bad digestive trouble.
If the sow suckles her litter for
the recognised 56 days and is
fed, say, 101 b. of concentrates
each day, her total ration will
amount to three bags of good
wheat. Cost can be worked out
according to district, but, under
most conditions, the rearing of
a healthy litter compensates for
the cost of the wheat. If it
doesn’t, best give pig-raising
away. In all cases meanness
with feed causes direct and
indirect losses.
Following weaning, the sow
needs special feeding to bring
her back to good rising condition
as quickly as possible.
D.N.B.P.
“Billjim”: Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture has had
excellent results in field-trials
from use of the selective weed-
killer D.N.B.P. in the strawberry-
patch.
This is an important develop-
ment, as weed-control accounts
for a large proportion of the
costs in this culture. Problem is
particularly tough during the
winter in heavy soils, when
mechanical cultivation and hand-
hoeing are difficult.
The chemical was used at a
strength of 7 pints in 400 gals.
of water per acre, sprayed on
to the cleanly-prepared soil a
fortnight before planting. The
single spray kept weed-growth
down for six months; only
side-effect was browning-off the
old leaves of yearling plants.
Rabbit-crop
“Allan B.”: Farmers in the
Victorian Mallee are leaving
their farms for the time being
to take up rabbit-traps—high
prices offered for skins has
created a demand for rabbits
unprecedented in Mallee history.
Favored spots are where the
Mallee-scrub borders the culti-
vated areas, as here myxo.
doesn’t appear to have had much
effect and rabbits are more
numerous.
Skins are bringing 160 d. a
pound, higher than the best
Merino wool! Some buyers are
paying ss. a pair. This is a good
cop, as most sowing is finished
in the Mallee.
Judge Condition on
Scales
“Meridian”: The eye can be
easily deceived when judging the
condition of sheep—particularly
when the fleece is long. The
best way of finding out how
the flock is doing is to weigh
a representative number of
sheep (the same ones every time)
at intervals.
Results are often very reveal-
ing, says P. Hyland in “Livestock
Digest.”
Hyland suggests using
weighing-pen and spring-balance
in race at the sheepyards. Just
as easy to place pen on platform-
scales at end of race.
Use distinctive scourable brand
on sheep to be weighed. Selected
sheep are hardly necessary with
platform-scales, on which three
men can weigh 300 an hour
when woollies and team get used
to the job.
Loss of weight is a danger-sign
—that the flock needs better feed,
that internal parasites are active,
or that disease is causing trouble.
Break-in flock to the scales
well before lambing-time.
Bee-baffler
“Big Billy”: A device known
as an apidictor is now being
tested among 10,000 apiarists in
the U.K. Designed to stop
swarming, it should save bee-
keepers hours of tricky work,
and boost honey-production.
A tiny electronic device, the
apidictor will amplify any
warbling note that may be going
on in the hive from the nurse-
bees. This permits of the hive
being opened and the queen-
cells dealt with. If no note is
detected, the colony can be left
in peace for at least a further
nine days (the time it takes for
a newly-laid egg to develop into
a queen-pupa).
Management
“Palo Alto”: Advances in
engineering and science are only
as good as the management
which goes with them. Some
instances:
Unless it is used to cover
maximum area in shortest time,
the tractor on a wheatfarm
expends too much energy con-
verting fuel into hot air.
Selective weedicides can do
more harm than good if not
mixed in right proportions and
used on the right crops at right
stage of growth. Basically,
weed-control demands good
management, such as mainten-
ance of soil-fertility and good
cultivation practices. Weedicides
can consolidate this good work
effectively.
The dairyman who relies on
penicillin to control mastitis is
foolish. Good hygiene and care-
ful milking-techniques are the
best answers to mastitis. Peni-
cillin is excellent for the odd case
which appears in the best of
herds.
Similarly, good management
is the answer to the control of
fpotrot in sheep. Chloromycetin
is supplementary to good
management —not a substitute
for it.
Myxomatosis has done a
wonderful job against rabbits,
but they won’t be exterminated
unless landholders conduct a
“mopping-up” campaign in con-
junction with the virus.
Deep-litter hasn’t much ad-
vantage in the piggery unless all
the other good practices go with
1 • drnphim
Contours and . mpr „ nrv
so il-erosion
measures against s •
Maintenance of fert y,
good cover °f Pasture,
real weapons agains
mg or blowing ot top-son.
None of the wonders of
modern science can give us its
best help unless we do our best
to help it to help us.
Pasture "Mudlarks"
“Cobra”: Reports of Paspa-
lum dilitatum pastures surviving
several weeks of flooding after
heavy February rains in Vic-
toria’s Goulburn Valley bring to
mind several other “mudlarks”
among pasture-plants.
Paspalum distichum is re-
nowned for its growth in wet
good
banks.
Strawberry-clover has also
made a name for its growth in
i ow places. It tolerates a bit of
sa l t , too. Versatile strawberry-
clover (Palestine strain) also
does better than average in dry
country. '
Another legume which doesn’t
mind the we t i s birdsfoot-
trefoil. '
Poa aquatica, which has
flourished in certain swamps and
gullies for many years, is under
suspicion of poisoning stock in
Victoria and Tasmania. The
evidence is thin yet, but stock-
owners are warned not to let
hungry stock eat it after
travelling.
Kikuyu-grass—curse of many
home-gardeners —has also been
observed to survive flooding well
in some of i Victoria’s western-
district swamps.
Doeks
“Watsonia”: Here’s a hint for
waging easier warfare on docks:
instead of excavating the
offender, just slip in a spade,
grubber, or similar weapon at an
angle calculated to sever it
3in. from the crown, and take
away the crown for burning.
That’s all. I got the gen. from
a practical-minded bloke on the
staff of Maoriland’s Scientific
and Industrial Research Depart-
ment, who’d struck it as an
anonymous contribution to an
English farming-journal. This
fellow broke the barrier of tradi-
tion 'with the claim that, con-
trary to what most gardeners
have accepted, dock-roots don’t
regenerate along their complete
length. The broad-leafed sort
sends out new shoots only from
the upper 3in. and the curly-
leafed for only half the distance.
For three years my informant
made exhaustive check-trials and
completely verified the cheering
news. “There is no danger of
subsequent regeneration from the
basal portions of the root left
in the ground after the crown-
portion is removed.”
I’m accepting his word.
Farm Hints
“Springfield”: Blood-poison-
ing, “cheesy-gland,” tetanus and
poor wool-prices are some of
the “wages” of dirty shearing-
sheds.
“Inula”: Dangerous to use
tanner’s-salt on weeds in stock-
paddocks. Such salt usually
contains arsenic off the hides
and can carry anthrax —killer of
man as well as beast.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(7/8/’55)
The estimates to date have been conforming
reasonably well with the seasonal trend, although
the increased sunspot activity has led to some variation.
At present two fairly large sunspot outbreaks have
occurred, and the effects of this should be widespread!,
with the main rains about the middle of August.
Rainfall during September in N.S.W. should be patchy,
although good rains are indicated in the vicinity of Sydney.
Victoria should receive reasonably good general rain,
and the same should apply to South Australia, although
rain in the Upper Murray Valley may be light, and in the
interior, poor.
Moderate rain is indicated on the south coast 'of W.A.,
with light to moderate rain, below normal, in the agri-
cultural areas. Light thunderstorm-rain on the goldfields,
but elsewhere poor.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Australia’s First Railway
The years-old controversy over Aus-
tralia’s first railway was lately accentu-
ated by the centenaries of the two rival
claimants—the Port Elliot and Goolwa
railway (S.A.), and the Melbourne-
Hobson’s Bay railway.
In 1953 the combined Railway Com-
missioners of Australia investigated the
claim that the Port Elliot and Goolwa
was the first public railway to open for
running in Australia. This was a horse-
drawn railway at its commencement, and
the railway commissioners’ finding, issued
on January 27, 1954, said, “as animal-
traction (95 per cent, horse-traction) on
railways meant little or nothing to the
economies of the nations in which they
existed therefore what the State rail-
way administrations are concerned about
is the celebration of the centenary of
mechanical railways, the first of which
in Australia was admittedly the Hobson’s
Bay railway.”
Since many believed this finding to be
erroneous in several particulars, especially
the reference to horse-traction*, which
amounts to a gross underestimation of the
part played by horses in the development
of railways—the first railways in Eng-
land, the U.S.A., France, Russia, Aus-
trian-Empire and Canada all began
with horse-traction—the matter was
referred to the Royal Australian Histori-
cal Society for a thorough historical in-
vestigation.
After a long and painstaking exami-
nation of the evidence submitted, it was
announced that, on July 22, 1955, the
council of the society endorsed the con-
clusion reached by its memorials
committee: that the Port Elliot and
Goolwa Railway (S.A.) was the first
public railway in Australia to carry
goods and passengers.
A suggestion has also been forwarded
by the society to the P.M.G. that the
Port Elliot and Goolwa railway would
be a signal and important subject for
commemorative stamps.
The following historical precedence
can now be definitely recorded:
First public railway in Australia: Port
Elliot and Goolwa railway, opened May
18, 1854.
Second public railway in Australia:
Melboume-Hobson’s Bay railway, opened
September 12, 1854.
Third public railway in Australia:
Sydney to Granville railway, opened Sen-
tember 26, 1855.
Fourth public railway in Australia:
Adelaide City and Port railway, opened
April 19, 1856.
The Port Elliot and Goolwa railway
can also claim to be the first public rail-
way in Australasia and the first State-
owned railway in the British Empire
Geo Beesley (N.S.W.).
Irrigation and Closer-settlement
I did not mean to imply (B. 15/6/’55)
that the Queensland Government is not
interested in irrigation. It has done a
"Make up y'r minds! Where DO we have the picnic ?”
great deal, for which it deserves credit •
but a lot remains to be done.
The Government-sponsored schemes
are usually large ones, where an ample
water-supply makes possible a settlement
of dozens of irrigated farms. These con-
ditions are found, as a rule, close to the
coast. lam more concerned with the
outback and with smaller supplies of
water that will irrigate from two or three
to 50 or 100 acres.
On the Darling Downs quite a number
of men are now growing a few acres of
lucerne, potatoes or small crops as a side-
line, watering them from wells, bores or
dams. In the far-west, too, there are
places where suitable underground water
is available, or where dams could be
built to impound the run-off from
summer rains. The area involved is
minute compared to Queensland’s 670,000
square miles, but the soil is usually so
fertile that a few irrigated acres, pro-
vided the produce can be marketed, can
support a family.
Any increased settlement in the far-
west depends on making it a pleasanter
place for women and children to live in,
and fresh food comes first on the list of
needed amenities. That is where a large
number of small irrigated areas are vital.
They are really a job for private enter-
prise, but Government help, in at least
two directions, is necessary. First, land-
holders who wish to dabble in irrigation
need some security of tenure. Leaseholds
of liniited duration may or may not be
the ideal tenure for grazing-land; they
certainly will not encourage the heavy
capital-outlay involved in a private
irrigation-system. And rail-freights will
have to be revised. It is not much good,
for example, growing fresh vegetables
near Charleville if people in Quilpie and
Cunnamulla can rail them more cheaply
from Brisbane, which is about the posi-
tion under the present “post-rate”
policy.
The rest of Clem Lack’s letter (B.
13/7/’55) is neatly answered by another
on the same page. It is useless to talk
of how much the Government is spend-
ing per head of population if the number
of heads continues to decrease. Obviously
the money is not being spent in the best
way. And it doesn’t help much when
anyone who tries to make a constructive
suggestion is accused of misrepresenting
the Government. Unfortunately, that
seems to be the automatic reaction of
all Governments to any criticism, however
well-intentioned. — Magnoon (Q.).
Not Enough Workers
Australian employment-figures indi-
cate that far too great a proportion of our
workforce is on the Government pay-
roll —Commonwealth or State. They are
non-productive workers, and many are
not even rendering essential services.
With recent increases in public-service
salaries and margins, taxpayers are being
called upon to foot an enormous bill that
must be a drag on the country’s economy.
When this country was making its
greatest progress the public service was
very small —producers and consumers got
along well enough without the assistance
of a flock of supervisors employed by
hundreds of boards. Today Australia is
a Socialised State, whether this is
admitted or not, and it is paying for the
pleasure.
Farmers, manufacturers and consumers
are also suffering from another affliction
of non-workers—certain classes of agents
or “middlemen” who make easy and
extensive profits without rendering any
useful service to the producer or the
consumer.
This, has been apparent lately in
Sydney’s markets, where prices .of pro-
duce have reached astronomical heights
without benefit to the producer. There
are allegations, too, of dealers buying
cattle in country centres, trucking them
to Sydney, and then, by using bidding-
dummies, forcing up prices at fatstock-
sales to figures beyond those that would
be paid by a genuine consumer.
Forestalling in the vegetable-markets,
dumping surplus fish and fruit to main-
tain price-levels and sundry other devices
are keeping the cost of living at
artificial levels and fostering inflationary
conditions without helping the producer
or the consumer.
These conditions are symptomatic of
the times, and only a mass-objection by
the people who are paying for it all will
(N
An Appeal
May I appeal for warm clothing,
tmned-food or donations to assist dis-
tressed aged or invalid, pensioners?
The ones for whom we are asking help
are those who are too old or sick to earn
anything to supplement their weekly pen-
sion of £3 10s. Many of them have to
“No 'arm in bein' tidy."
pay 7s. 6d. to 12s. 6d. weekly for their
medicine.
Medicines are not all free,to aged and
invalid pensioners. Many of them have
to pay for certain drugs necessary to
treat their particular illness.
Rents must also be paid, and in many
cases that does not leave enough to buy
even the bare necessities of life.
Our organisation (the United Old Age
and Invalid Pensioners’ Association of
Australia) was formed in 1931 to help
the aged and infirm.—Mrs. M. A.
Huntress, J.P., Hon. General Secretary, 3
Jersey-street, Marrickville (N.S.W.).
From the U.S.A.
_ One of my chums “down under” was
kind enough to send me a couple of
copies of The Bulletin and I liked them
so much that I thought I would drop a
short letter and say so.
Having such great interest in Australia,
and having such a high regard for its
people since World War 11, I am in hopes
that you might publish this letter, telling
any of your readers that I sure would
like to hear, air-mail, from any of them
—air-mail costs a slight bit more, but it
takes four days, as against five to seven
weeks to the Twin Cities by boat-mail.
My interests: anything on how r you
are doing on TV and, also, anything on
travel (commercial airlines), postcards,
etc. I also like to exchange any popu-
lar magazines—these, Of course, by boat-
mail. Also the daily late-issue papers.
It is 95 degrees here this afternoon, one
of the hottest days we have had this
summer in Minneapolis.— Frederick A.
Richardson, 4752 Chowen-avenue
South, Minneapolis 10, Minnesota,
U.S.A.
“Save the Past”
Reports that a national movement will
be launched in Melbourne to preserve
Australia’s historic and beautiful build-
ings give hope that at last an organised
attempt will be made to save some of
the remaining visible traces of our past.
As a nation eager to stamp ourselves
modern and progressive we have been
rather contemptuous in our disregard for
historical relics —witness the belated re-
cent attempts to collect and preserve his-
toric documents, and the readiness with
which buildings dating from the earlier
years of settlement have been demol-
ished to make way for ugly utilitarian
structures.
It is particularly encouraging that a
paint-company—which might be thought
to be more interested in new buildings
than old ones —has already promised
£lOOO as its joining-contribution to the
movement. Other companies and pro-
fessional men have promised support for
the Victorian organisation, which it is
hoped will become nation-wide.
The only pity is that the move has
come 50 years too late to save many
of our most important brick-and-mortar
relics. State Governments should give
the proposals full encouragement; after
all, it is largely because of political in-
activity that private citizens have felt
obliged to take some action.—D J G
(Vic.). u '
Australian History
The book-jacket of Australia. A
Social and Political History, published
this year, states: “Anyone wishing to
gain a knowledge of the historical move-
ments that lie at the back of present-day
Australian social and political activity
will find this book illuminating. Many
factors overlooked by earlier scholars
have been brought to light and inter
preted.” There is mention of: “Fort
illustrations from original sources anc
nine maps.”
The gibe at earlier scholars seems
trifle gratuitous. This is particularly th
case with respect to the maps. In thi
case the authors include the set of maps
dating from 190 9, which is supposed t
explain the “Division of Australia int
States,” between 1786 and 1863. It doe
not seem to have been observed by thos
responsible that the facts implied by thes
maps are largely apocryphal.
Little need be said of the picture
except that the portrait of Henry Lawson
(p. 226), .whether intentionally or nol
lends color to the view that he was wel
described as “a drunken revolutionary.’
The confusing use of the phrase
“Goderich regulations” (p. 79), in place
of “Ripon land regulations” (p. 49), seems
hardly calculated to smooth the path of
reader unfamiliar with these provisions
The statement (p. 100) that “The
essentials of - responsible government
were won from the colonial office by the
legislative council of New South Wales
under the leadership of Wentworth before
the end of 1852” omits mention of the
fact that transportation was in question.
This is explained in the Dispatch of the
Secretary of State explaining the decision
not to establish an Elective Council in
Van Diemen’s Land in 1842, the text of
which will be found (p. 345) in Select
Documents in Australian History, 1788-
1850 (C. M. FI. Clark, ed.). Page 63
states that “it is a mistake to think that
the impetus for self-government came
entirely from the colonists.” That seems
to contradict the remarks on p. 100.
Page 80 tells us, erroneously, that,
under the 1842 Land Sales Act, South
Australia and Western Australia “were
brought into fine with the eastern
Colonies.” Surely that is misleading?
In point of fact, the exact reverse was
the case, vide the Reports from the
Select Committee on South Australia,
1841.
It seems distinctly odd, where the
emphasis is on modern interpretation, to
find such ancient writers as Merivale and
Fawkner (of the “Port Phillip Patriot”),
both of whom had an axe to grind, put
forward as authorities in determining
what happened in the formative period of
Australian history. Merivale was a mem-
ber of the South Australian Society,
which, in 1840, protested against the cut-
ting-off of supplies to the South Aus-
tralian colony. His later writings prove
that he was an unreliable witness.
Certain references to South Australia
in other sections of the work rather
suggest hurried effort, or else lack of
appreciation of the importance of the
matters in question.—T. B. (S.A.).


liy-roll Tax
With a Budget surplus revealed, one
the first moves by the Federal
'easurer should be the abolition of
y-roll tax.
This irritating impost, a war-time
easure, creates a tremendous amount of
ork in the collating of details and the
bmitting of returns with remittances to
e appropriate Taxation Department.
Its abolition would reduce work in
ivate and semi-private organisations
id also cut overhead costs. In the
overnmental sphere it would obviate the
;cessity of maintaining a pay-roll tax
jpartment.
Not a great deal of actual revenue
ould be lost, because expenses would
and more people would be
mailable to the earning side of their
rganisations.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
forking Mothers
Juvenile crime, or at least anti-social
ehavior, is a problem common to all
ighly industrialised countries and one
lat seems insoluble by the ordinary
Drees of law and order.
While there are probably many causes
or this youthful unrest, one of the
lajor factors could well be the increase
a the percentage of “working mothers.”
<ar more mothers take on jobs now than
lefore World War 11, and in many cases
. child’s indifferent attitude towards his
ocial obligations could probably be
raced directly to the lack of proper care
md attention in the home.
This view is supported by the remarks
of Professor D. R. MacCalman, Pro-
fessor of Psychiatry at Leeds University,
England. An authority on child-psycho-
ogy, now visiting Australia, he has said
hat a child separated from its mother
n the first two or three years almost in-
variably develops delinquency or neuro-
sis in later life. The professor has also
commented that lack of proper contact
vith its mother in these early years is the
fundamental cause of the cold heartless-
less in the adolescent delinquent.
Unfortunately, no simple remedy can
De suggested. It is futile to tell a work-
ing mother she should stay at home when
the father’s earnings are insufficient to
support them in reasonable comfort. In
the interests of the community generally
serious thought will have to be given to
the problem of making it economically
possible—as it was 20 years ago—for the
average family to make ends meet on
the father’s earnings.—Do ynest (Vic.).
Money or Leisure?
“Mutton Jeff” (B. 20/7/’55) can see
nothing wrong in the growing demand
by the individual worker for more money,
or more leisure, or both. But the argu-
ment is specious, because individual
bargaining between master and man is
as obsolete as the bullock-wagon.
The workers are now regimented under
militant leaders, and their personal ambi-
tions are not consulted when the com-
mand to down-tools is issued without
benefit of secret ballot or open discus-
sion. When an individual worker con-
spires with thousands of his fellows to
demand more “amenities” than the law
prescribes, enforcing his demand by
brandishing the strike-weapon, you could
almost call it robbery-under-arms. The
strike can be as lethal as a revolver when
it deprives thousands of innocent victims
of heat, food, shelter, transport and
sanitation.
It is impossible to assess the amount of
human misery or the number of deaths
due to “industrial uni'-sf,'"' but the absence
of statistics does not alter the fact that
the success of the stoppage depends on
the degree of physical cruelty and
financial damage inflicted on noncom-
batants. Not even “M-J-” will deny that
a localised strike imposes hardship on
women and children first, or that a
general strike is an act of sabotage
against the financial solvency and
military security of the nation. —
Damper (S.A.).
The Soviet
The Bulletin editorial on “Geneva
Realities” (27/7/’55) commented that
“Russian public opinion is now the main
stumbling-block [to disarmament], for it
cannot be expected that a people which
has been bred for 40 years in seclusion
and taught that the countries outside its
boundaries are inhabited by savage and
aggressive races, deterred from descend-
ing on the good things of the U.S.S.R.
only by organised force, can be brought
to a state of mind in which they are pre-
pared to disarm.’”
I have lived in Russia and I am sure
that the percentage of genuine Com-
"Want to buy a gumboot?"
munists is smaller there than in any
other country. The Government, hated
and mistrusted, remains in power with
the aid of a huge police-force and con-
centration-camps for an estimated 20-
million people. Very few Russians be-
lieve the Communist propaganda con-
cerning the outside world, or any other
official pronouncement emanating from
the Government.
The seclusion of the Russian people is
far less effective than generally imagined.
Millions of Russian soldiers saw Central
Europe during the war and compared
unfavorably conditions prevailing at home
with those existing abroad. On the other
hand, millions of deportees from Central
Europe, Germany and Austria were im-
prisoned in Russia and spread tales of a
richer and freer life in capitalist
countries.
Since the Revolution (engineered by a
small, highly organised and ruthless
minority) the Russian people have looked
at their neighbors not as “savage and
aggressive,” but as potential liberators
from the Kremlin’s tyranny. This was
demonstrated at the beginning of the
Russo-German war, when millions of
Soviet soldiers laid down their arms with-
out even token-resistance. As Sir Win-
ston Churchill said in his Aftermath, “A
dose of Communism induces a desire in
any population to welcome any other
form—even the harshest—of civilised
authority.”
Subsequent Russian resistance has been
caused by Hitler’s political stupidity, his
failure to establish a national Russian
Government and distribute the land, and
the fact that the Nazi rule, apart from
being foreign, was at least as harsh as
that of Stalin. In spite of all that, over
half-a-million former Red Army men, led
by General Vlasov, fought against the
U.S.S.R.
Russian public opinion must be re-
garded as distinct from that of other
nationalities inhabiting the U.S.S.R.
About 100 million Soviet citizens are non-
Russian, opposed to any Moscow Gov-
ernment- —imperial, Communist, or demo-
cratic. These peoples are traditional
enemies of Russia, subjugated by force
and maintained in subjugation by force,
but certainly not resigned to their fate.
This was apparent during the last war.
In the Crimea, for instance, in the autumn
of 1941, when the Wehrmacht forced the
Russian defences at Perekop, the Tartar
population attacked the Red Army with
the support of the Greek colonists,
Karaims, local Germans and Russian in-
habitants of Kertch. About 120,000
Soviet troops were killed. In the Cauca-
sus, bloody uprisings took place in the
summer of 1942. The insurrections of
the Tchetchens and Kalmouks between
the Don and the Caspian Sea deprived the
Red Army of the Grozny oilfields.
The Soviet Government is fully aware
of the danger represented by non-
Russian citizens of the U.S.S.R., and it
has taken severe repressive measures to
minimise this danger. In 1943 the auto-
nomous region of Karatchayev was sup-
pressed and the whole population
(149,000) deported to Siberia. The same
fate befell the autonomous Republic of
the Kalmouks and all the inhabitants
(220,000) were exiled. At the beginning
of 1944 the autonomous Republic of
Tchetchens and Ingushs ceased to exist
and 697,000 inhabitants were sent to
Kazakhstan.
The Republic of the Tartars was
abolished by'a decree of July 2, 1945,
and of its 1,127,000 citizens, only
200,000 (mostly Russians) were left. The
“missing” Tartars have been shot or sent
to concentratron-camps. After the re-
conquest of Byelorussia and the Ukraine,
the Soviet Government deported seven-
to eight-million persons because they were
guilty of “lack of attachment to the
Marxist way of life.”
The main stumbling-block to disarmar
ment, therefore, is not Russian (or rather
Soviet) public opinion, but the men in
the Kremlin and several million of their
henchmen who, regardless of diplomatic
manoeuvres dictated by temporary ex-
pediency, will never agree to real dis-
armament —once Russia ceased to live
“amid armed and aggressive might” they
would lose not only their jobs, but also
their necks. —A European Sociologist
(Q).
A Convert?
Queensland’s Labor Premier Gair
lately called on the Queensland people
to oppose Communism —a commendable
exhortation, but one coming oddly from
Mr. Gair.
Labor’s Federal Conference in Hobart
last March decided, among other things,
to withdraw support for industrial-
groups, to oppose sending troops to
Malaya, and to recognise Red China.
The Queensland Labor caucus voted in
favor of all of these decisions, which
seems a strange way of opposing
Communism.
Every Labor-day procession in Bris-
bane sees Gair and his Ministers parad-
ing with Communist leaders in Queens-
land. They never appear to be in the
least embarrassed. —D. J. K. (Q.).
Automation”
That “Uncabled Additions” item on
“automation” (B. 20/7/’55) struck just
the right note ; practically the next day
Melbourne “Age” reported the views of
the secretary of the Victorian Employers’
Federation, S. M. Gilmour, on this very
new subject. He was of the opinion that
management and labor in Australia
should discuss this development “with the
aim of examining the problems it was
likely to create, and finding solutions.”
“In Australia,” said Mr._ Gilmour, “we
could avoid some of these problems that
are arising overseas. ‘Automation’
substitutes automatically controlled
machinery for the conventional
machinery of today which still requires
the brains and judgment of men to
operate it.
“Perhaps,” he added, “I am an
optimist, but I believe that ‘automation’
can be adapted to the benefit of mankind,
and I rather suspect that, whether we
like it or not, ‘automation’ is on its way
here. Its influence is already creeping
into the world’s economy. It is doubtful
whether it could be stopped, though the
rate of development might be slowed by
organised opposition.”
In America, where a heated controversy
is raging about “automation,” a large
body of opinion considers that, properly
handled, it “could speed-up man’s eternal
striving for a better and more bountiful
way of life.”
Mr. Gilmour said he thought it might
well be that the road to the increased
productivity which all thinking people
are seeking is through “automation.” It
should be underlined, however, that this
new development implied a vast invest-
ment of capital in new machinery.
Some idea of the cost proportionately
in Australia for this second industrial
revolution could be seen in the estimate
that the changeover for United States
industry would involve an investment of
£622,000 million.— Allan B. (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 343
Across
I—Gilbertian1 —Gilbertian feminist and I meet a
prosecutor in U.S. (3)
3 —Mercury urges the spoons to get
a wriggle on. (11)
8— Edetrad left the express detective
and showered afterwards. (9)
9 Sprinkled with fine particles of
matter from the French pig’s pen.
(5)
10 — A small horse swallowed a
hundred of the intersecting point
of refracted rays. (5)
11 — Ta-ta to madness! It is by no
means an unhappy state. (8)
13 —Rene muddled poet O’Reilly’s
bad-lots. (4-2-5)
15 — The Spanish cubed X in the
timber. (3)
16 — Apex toy. (3)
18 —Adam or lor we? (5, 6)
21—A ruling’s revised, but is still
curious. (8)
23 —There are 60 in a crown. (5)
25 — An old profligate goes to the
North French city. (5)
26 — Queen grape-producers in the
midst of the jitters. (9)
28 — Mountebank replacing the 18-
across in 3-across with l-and-2-
down. (11)
29 — German city letters. (3)
Down
1 and 2 —A newspaper feature which
is not distinct. (10, 7)
3 —Shot birds cowered. (7)
A —A place to put up two vertical
strokes and a diagonal down-
stroke may so be found. (3)
5 O Dusk! What credit resides in
thee? (5)
6 I and the earth goddess have a
garment on a trace. (7)
7 Lindwall and Milland fish. (4)
9 —Drops a medico on a manuscript.
(5)
11 — It pulls along a skyscraper. (5)
12— A bloke on U.N.’s islands making
Nina assume the name for a
stenographer. (10)
14—Lamenter drops the fellows after-
wards. (5)
17 — Flora includes this United Long-
shoremen’s Association if strait-
laced. (7)
18 — Weariness before batting with
Dickensian smoke at home. (5)
19 — No longer a monk from before?
(2-5)
20 — Because the Italian king is
earnest and honest in expressions
of feeling. (7)
22 —Note-producer who takes the
hearts of all Anzacs. (5)
24 —Country figure denoting mental
aptitudes around an artist. (4)
27—Many a clerical worker answers
to this motor’s turn. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 342


w
GLclss l/rv-suJjal&d fIITH SILVIUM
t
i
The ONLY
battery
conrainin
SILVIUM
the magical new additive
ensuring longer plate life
GREATER CAPACITY
and MORE POWER
eutuv
«r>
GUARANTEED
YEARS
GLclss l/rus uJLaJUxi,
6IIVIVIH
MANUFACTURED BY:
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY COMPANY LIMITED
Birmingham Street, Alexandria, N.S.W.
CENTURY BATTERIES FOR CARS. TRUCKS. TRACTORS. EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT.
OR CYCLES, RADIO, HOME LIGHTING are distributed by
NEW SOUTH WALES; Century Storage Battery
Co. Ltd., Birmingham Street, Alexandria. Smith
Sons & Rees Ltd., 30-32 Wentworth Avenue,
Sydney. Bradley Bros. Ltd., 55-59 Wentworth
Avenue Sydney. Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broad-
way, Sydney. Industrial Sales & Service (N.S.W.)
Pty. Ltd., Parramatta Road, Lidcombe. Motor
Sydney* Ltd *’ 70 Commonwealth Street,
RIVERINA: Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty.
Ltd., 515 Kiewa Street, Albury. J
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies
Pty., 458 Brunswick Street, Brisbane. Plant &
Plant (Machinery) Pty. Ltd., 323-325 Ruthven
Street, Toowoomba. Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd.,
Townsville. Wyper Bros. Ltd., Bundaberg.
Advanx Tyre & Motor Service, 61 Sheridan Street,
Cairns. Lawrence Motor Company, Bolsover
Street, Rockhampton. Corser & Co. Pty., Ellena
Street,. Maryborough. Gympie Machinery &
Electrical Coy., Mary Street, Gympie. Jas. Croker
& Sons, Mackay.
VICTORIA: Century Storage Battery Co. Pty.
Ltd., Macaulay Road, North Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries (S.A.)
Ltd., sole concessionaires, 15 Ackland Street,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Attwood Motors Pty.
Ltd., 22 Stirling Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: C. C. Boag Batteries, 86 Bathurst
Street, Hobart; 224 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Allen Bros. (Darwin)
Pty. Ltd., Darwin.
