

No. 244: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
/
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
MIGRANTS, GOOD AND BAD —page 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76 —No. 3925
Wednesday, May 4, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
QUEEN'S OF OXFORD, FAMOUS COLLEGE OF THEOLOGY
DURING the Middle Ages the growth of Oxford was influenced by the
coming of the Friars, whose store of learning and religious teaching
attracted students from far and wide. During the reign of King John (1199-
1216) the students at Oxford numbered three thousand. It was from these
early beginnings that England’s great university city developed and, as might
be expected in a place where development had been so gradual, the architec-
tural styles of its ancient buildings cover every period from Saxon times.
Today the University comprises twenty-four colleges for men and four for
women. ,
One of the finest architectural vistas in England is Oxford s High
Street, known the world over as “The High.” Among the ancient colleges
which line this beautiful thoroughfare is Queen’s, which was founded in 134 U
by Robert de Eglesfield, chaplain to Queen Philippa (wife of Edward 111)
after whom the College is named. Nothing now remains of the medieval
buildings which were replaced during the years 1692-1716. The quadrangle
facing “The High” is in the dignified Palladian style, designed mainly by the
architect Nicholas Hawksmoor (1661-1736) who, at the age of 18, became
the pupil and domestic clerk of Sir Christopher Wren who, himself, designed
the handsome Chapel and Hall at Queen’s.
The first formal arrangement in Oxford for the education ot under-
graduates started at Queen’s; the founder provided for a provost and twelve
fellows and seventy “poor boys” as disciples for the study of theology.
Eglesfield, the founder, was a Cumberland man, and ever since his day there
has been a close connection between the College and the north country.
In the library and common-room are portraits of Henry V, who is
reputed to have lodged at Queen’s. Joseph Addison was a famous member
of the College.
Several quaint customs are still observed at Queen’s; the college is
summoned to dinner by the sound of a trumpet, and on Christmas Day, each
year, occurs the Boar’s Head Ceremony, which dates back to the early 16th
century. The boar’s head is carried in procession with pomp and ceremony
to the High Table while an ancient carol is sung:
“The boar’s head in hand bear I,
Bedecked with bays and rosemary”....


If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of’£lo6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
- —CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON ——
| To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli- j
J gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of *
• your Literary Courses. I
I I
| MY NAME I
| ADDRESS J
j (S.B. 955) ACE J
You’re looking for a book? BOOKHUNTER
will find it for you—any book from any-
where Quick service moderate charges
Write to BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit the metropolitan area
and pay cash. Correspondence
from country or inter-State
invited.
BERKELOUW
THE KINGSWAY,
ROSEVILLE, N.S.W. JYII3I
The Red Page
KIPLING AND MAUGHAM
Literary revivals of writers active
before World War I hint at a state of
desperation in publishers for readable
novels and short-stories. Kipling,
Scott-Fitzgerald, Edith Wharton and
Ford Madox Ford are among those
being reprinted.
The claims now being made for
some of those writers need not always
be taken too seriously. They are still
too close to us to be evaluated as
classics. It takes more than a century
to put the seal of continuity on a work
of art. And even then popular taste
may decide to make a great master
out of a mediocre painter, such as El
Greco. Changes in popular taste are
due to boredom and satiation with the
stale repetitions of a “movement.”
Nevertheless, this revival of writers
who had the craftsmanship to tell a
readable story is of significance. It is
a return to the simple understanding
that a work of art must entertain as
well as vindicate the virtuosity of its
creation.
Lucidity and entertainment may be
selected today as the key-words to a
revival m the arts, for only by such a
stimulus can a response from the public
be K?L e^ te * d ’ S h ? r - ston fs are seldom
pubhshed in book-form today because
publishers will not publish them. They
seek: there have been no writers of the
short-story for many decades capable of
creating a public for their works.
In my youth short-story writers
headed the publishers’ lists as best-
sellers. Kipling. Conan Doyle, H. G.
Wells W W Tacohs O Henrv and
wens w. w. Jacobs, U. Henry and
many lesser craftsman m that metier
made fortunes for themselves and their
publishers. Dozens of magazines
existed on the short-story alone. Today
there is not a single short-story maga-
zine produced in England, except for
“Blackwoods’s” and a reprint journal
which publishes stories from other
nationalities as well as from British
writers. America still produces some.
The “Strand Magazine” was the last of
its order to perish in England during the
post-war years, and its editor. Reginald
Pound, has written, in his “Maypole in
the Strand,” a diagnosis of the literary
anaemia from which it perished. Pound
had previously edited the literary pages
of the “Daily Express” and “Daily
Mail,” and had been in personal con-
tact with every literary notoriety of his
era, and out of all those he could not
dig up one short-story writer of quality
to put a little vitality into his debili-
tated “Strand Magazine.” All he could
get were slight sketches; case-histories
hinting at, but not revealing psycho-
logical profundities; experiments in
wrong-end-first narratives; and tough
school affectations—the last resort, is
he rightly remarks, of those who can-
not write good English.
A single new writer of the right
quality may revive the whole field of
the short-story. I have seen the
phenomenon myself in Kipling’s
impact. Before his arrival even
capable literary craftsmen like
Robert Louis Stevenson could not
command a public for their short-
stories. At this date it is impossible to
convey the mass-reaction of the public
to Kipling’s stories. Everybody, high-
brow and lowbrow, read them. Every
adolescent with a muddled urge to
relieve an oppressed spinal-column by
a resort to poetry scribbled imitations
of his verses. Revolt against the static
“niceness” of contemporary writers
was thrilled by his “realism.” Kipling
cults sprang up like mushrooms every-
where. Superior criticism ejected a
few snorts of disapproval of this seem-
ing violation of cultural taboos, but
was swamped by his universal popu-
larity wherever English was written.
He retained his hold op readers of
his own generation, but the generation
produced by it turned him down flat.
Which brings us automatically to
the revival of interest in him, spon-
sored by two such notabilities in the
literary world as T. S. Eliot and
Somerset Maugham. Eliot some
years ago edited a selection of his
verses, and Maugham more recently a
selection of his short-stories.
Says Mr. Maugham in his estima-
tion of Kipling’s status as a prose-
writer: —
Rudyard Kipling is the only
writer of short-stories our country
has produced who can stand com-
parison with Guy de Maupassant
and Chekhov. He is our greatest
short-story writer. I can’t believe
he will ever be equalled. lam
sure he can never be excelled.
When Mr. Maugham is being
expressly urbane and gracious in
opinion on contemporary letters, I am
unable to resist a suspicion of subtly
disguised malice somewhere. This may
be evidence of a base inability on my
part to respond to generous emotion,
but I am forced to view this
overvaluation of Kipling with a dyspep-
tic eye. If its claim were made as a
comparison with other English writers,
it might stand; but when it is related to
Maupassant, and ignores Conrad, who
unquestionably wrote the greatest
short-stories in the English language,
then it recoils on Mr. Maugham as a
depreciation of those two great
writers.
In flat terms, it is ridiculous to com-
pare Kipling with Maupassant, who is
the greatest short-story writer in any
language. The one point of compari-
son permissible in relation to Kipling
is that Kipling could construct and
write a short-story with admirable
literary craftsmanship. There the com-
parison with Maupassant ends.
Maupassant saw the whole spectacle
of life in every possible gamut of
human passion. His magnificent toler-
ance excluded nothing from that spec-
tacle, not even the ugly and the horrify-
ing. But so perfect is his mastery over
prose that what might horrify in a
lesser writer, when handled by him,
becomes fascinating.
Kipling saw only a very small sec-
tion of life, peopled mainly by a few
Englishmen of a special caste-
soldiers and civilians—and by groups
of Indians of whom he wrote some
excellent studies. His Anglo-Indian
stories are his best. They are written
in a graphic style, with an intimate
knowledge of the life lived in India
under the British, and with an encyclo-
paedic memory for data. There his
vision of life stops short. For all else
he bristles with nationalistic and
puritanic distaste. As for women, he
does not know they exist. What maga-
zine editors call the “love-interest” in
his stories is a literary emetic in prunes-
and-prism prudery. I find it utterly
unbearable . . .
Nearly all his stories are told in the
first-person, and Kipling’s first-person
is that of a reporter jotting down
verbatim a story told by another. To
this method may be attributed the false
quantity in all his presentations of
character. His people are never alone;
they are always conscious of being
under inspection. They act the part
assigned to them by the writer. No
matter how much they may pretend to
reveal the truth about themselves, they
convey the effect of acting a part for
the admiration of an audience.
And that is what #ll people do when
indulging in secular confession, as a
thousand autobiographies attest. There
is inevitably a flavor of insincerity
about the first-person both in factuality
and fiction. But Kipling presents him-
self as its innocent dupe. His approach
to his other characters is one of hero-
worship. For the young English officer
he* has an Ouida-like adoration.
Even his schoolboys are super-
schoolboys—but only those whom he
has singled out for hero-worship. His
system of enhancing the status of the
hero is to present all those in contact
with him as semi-idiots, which, in this
case, includes schoolmasters. It is
amusing to recall that the real Stalky
of his “Stalky and C 0.,” in after-life
General Dunsterville, commenting on
the exalted status conferred on him-
self and other lads in “Stalky and
Co.” remarked, “After all, we were
only a lot of potty little schoolboys.”
This cool douche of reality on
literary fantasy-mongering defines what
is also the false quantity in Kipling’s
prose. He has no respect for the
integrity of words. To get an effect he
pitches emphasis too high and the level
passages too low. And the effect
defeats its end. Like all over-assertion,
it fails to convince. Reading him to-
day it is the major cause of flattening-
out our response to him. But when his
stories first flooded the book-market
with the effect of a burst dam of
printed matter his method came upon
the pedestrian prose of that era with
a tremendous effect of vigor.
But possibly his power to construct
a story and tell it with a sustained
power of narrative might inject some
muscular vitality into the modern short-
story. Such stories as “The Man Who
Would Be King,” “At the End of the
Passage,” and their like, could hardly
be bettered both for concept and
craftsmanship. A selection of his best
short-stories must give him a per-
manent place among English prose-
writers, and so far we may endorse
Somerset Maugham’s estimation of him
as a craftsman.
But Mr. Maugham’s attempt to rank
him with Maupassant defeats its objec-
tive by arousing our resistance. The
more so since Mr. Maugham includes
in his selection of Kipling’s best stories
“The Village that Voted the Earth
Was Flat,” which is one of the worst
examples of Kipling’s intemperate use
of superlatives to pitch-up common-
places, and to lavish adulation on one
set of characters while walloping
with a slapstick those opposed to
them. That a writer of Mr. Maugham’s
restrained taste in prose should have
selected this piece of crude farce as
humor reflects either a lack of humor
in the critic or a sardonic excess of it
at Kipling’s expense.
Norman Lindsay.
A Satire from Paris
A picture of Paris under the Nazis,
Jean Dutourd’s The Milky Way
(Museum Press), translated by Robin
Chancellor, is also so much like a
picture of certain aspects of Sydney in
war-time that it evokes a wistful
nostalgia. The Poissonards, Julie and
Charles-Hubert, kept what we should
call a smallgoods shop, and did
wonderfully well on the blackmarket:
From her perch behind her desk
Julie contemplated the lowly cus-
tomers without indulgence. She
no longer even took the trouble
to conceal her contempt for these
people who were so far beneath
her. The humility of the Pois-
sonards’ clientele increased in
inverse proportion to their own
arrogance. Month by month the
customers became more grovelling.
The imperturbable Julie met the
homage which rose up to her with
a face of granite, as inscrutable
and ambiguous as that of an
Assyrian god. But it was not
enough to be smiling and gracious
to win her favor; one had to
spend lavishly on the forbidden
butter, clandestine eggs or pro-
hibited Camemberts . . .
M. Dutourd obviously knows what’s
what. The two unusual things about
his satire are how very gay it is—full
of surprising adventures; as when the
young soldier, having been denounced,
escapes over the rooftops in his
pyjamas—and at the same time how
deadly.
He sees the Poissonards with per-
fect clarity, not as the monsters which
propaganda would make of them but
as normal, even decent citizens who
before the war took a pride in the
clean, efficient and economical run-
ning of their little dairy, and then, when
the Occupation came, met and suc-
cumbed to a tremendous temptation;
growing richer and richer and harder
and harder, until all their kindliness
was reserved in the end for clients who
could do them a favor on the black-
market and for their overfed children
—the girl who dreams over novels all
day, the small boy who plays rude
tricks on the shopgirls.
A fearful doom should fall on the
Poissonards, and it does. One of their
shopgirls bullies and blackmails them
for weeks, then betrays them to a sad.
sadistic policeman who cannot be
bribed like all the little inspectors who
have dropped into the shop for their
pound of ham or their special bit of
cheese. The Poissonards are fined. All
is desolation and disaster. But by this
time they are rich. And when the
shock and the period of prohibition
have worn off they reopen, their cus-
tomers creep back and they go on
from success to success till they own
blocks of flats, marry their dreamy
daughter to a politician and, so M.
Dutourd implies, govern France today.
"Mauberley” Again
Ezra Pound’s Hugh Selwyn Mau-
berley (Life and Contacts) has achieved
welcome discussion and documentation
in ezra pound’s mauberley, a study in
composition, by john j espey (faber).
“Mauberley” is at once the most
perfect and personal of Ezra Pound’s
productions; and it is one of the three
great poems which just after the First
World War changed the course of
poetry of the English-speaking world;
the others were Eliot’s “Prufrock” and
“Waste Land.” In “Mauberley,” which
is, a poem about the practice of poetry,
Pound found himself, as Hemingway
did in bullfighting and Eliot did in
the church. For the rendering of litera-
ture had been for many years his con-
stant study, from the Italian, the
Provencal, the Chinese, the old English,
etc.; his was a preoccupation with style
and method; he had the American
interest in how a thing worked, and the
American sense of period combined
with the American collector’s deter-
mination to possess the best example
of the essential and significant art of
that period.
He had also an American interest,
which he shared with Eliot, in “the
situation”—in the thing to be done
that would be most representative of
that time and place. For although
Eliot has said that we can assess a
man’s technical achievements, but must
leave it to time and forming conditions
both to make and proclaim his “great-
ness,” Eliot and Pound have tried to
anticipate posterity in this. For years
('Continued on page 35)


Type here type there , type anywhere with a
m
rtr;, : - H
—^
'j
% -.*"•• X> .» s s '
-i
11
■; «
f ; : i.
>1
life PM
i&iiili
tmm
m
mm
m i
,'i H- , g\
u
■
,;'j. ■;
K.
in
n
m
I
"' wssw v. | >,/'< ,<*'/<
SSI®
.
mm
mm
■mm
Above: EMPIRE ARISTOCRAT, £3O, weighs only Bflb. Can be carried
in attache case. Deposit £6.
SsSK
» \
REMINGTON, £49/10/-, or with
tabulator, £55/10/-, features an
exclusive super strength* frame and
finger fitted keys. Deposit £ll.
OLYMPIA, £49, or with the tabu-
lator, £55, features a spring loaded
keytop for easy cushioned action.
Deposit £ll.
•Tj*
mss,
sag
IMPERIAL GOOD COM-
PANION, £3B/10/-, two type styles.
Deposit £B. Imperial No. 3 with
tabulator, £45. Deposit £9.
OLIVETTI LETTERA 22,
£39/15/-, features a personal touch
control device that can be set in
four different positions. Deposit £B.
m&m
OLIVER COURIER, £35, which
features an 88 character keyboard,
is very light in weight. In compact
carrying case. Deposit £7.
BHflßgs
HERMES BABY, £35, is the
smallest, lightest typewriter in the
world. Weighs only 81b. Deposit £7.
Hermes 2,000, £4B. Deposit £lO.
TYPEWRITER DEPARTMENT, GROUND FLOOR. PITT STREET. BOX 2712, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Trad€>-in your old Typewriter
12 months guarantee
Easy Terms (Deposit from £6)
A portable can be used wherever the occasion arises—
in the garden; at the beach; in bed or whilst travelling
by plane, train or car. People who use typewriters most
-—doctors, dentists, writers and students —prefer a portable
for lightness and convenience. Box 2712, G.P.O. 80951.
tM TRUTH IN AOVERTVi'NC
Doctors
: •
*
-v;
* W
N-*** I |§ i
-
Dentists
ifll ■ |g "r ; '•>
■t
W/
Writers
-
sSSSSS&SskP®
Vw-i
I
Students


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 4, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3925
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George. Street, Sydney; Box 2521;,
* Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
RED A.L.P. SKY
WHILE the “Labor” party —it should rate eight
quotation-marks round its name now instead of four
—continues to hold itself together with one hand
it is obvious that it must keep the other occupied
in doing the work of the Communist-led unions.
Otherwise it will be short of funds for the next
election. Not, perhaps, that that would affect the
state of the poll on this occasion. But hope springs
eternal in the Evatt breast.
The A.W.U. is lavish, of course, with advice
and support, but it has never been as forthcoming
with political funds as it might be, and its members
are likely to have something to say if Messrs.
Dougherty and Schmella begin throwing money
about in support of a leader who obviously is
prepared to cast overboard Australia’s defensive
alliance with the United States (of which the
A.W.U. members of the North learnt the value
the hard way), abandon the White Australia policy
in foreign affairs, and replace the United States in
our defensive pattern with Russia and Red China.
The favor of these two countries Dr. Evatt
proposes to buy by opening the way for them to
walk into Malaya and Singapore, thus providing
them with a submarine-base to cut off Australia by
sea and an air-base from which to immolate our
air-routes and attack the Commonwealth. As a
bonus, he proposes to admit Red China into
U.N.0., along with satellites, and a couple of don’t-
care countries like Italy and Ireland, to make the
admission look plausible. He, of course, intends
that Red China shall have a veto in U.N.0.-v-it
would take over Chiang Kai-shek’s veto. It would
share with the other great Powers the right of
month-about military command inside U.N.0., for
what it is worth. And admission would amount to
a not-guilty verdict against Peking for its aggres-
sion in Korea and authorise its grave breaches of
the Korean armistice agreement, a document to
which it is paying no more atteniton than if it were
a label off a packet of tea.
It is almost impossible to conceive the leadqr
of a once-great party indulging in his antics of the
past few months —in the wicked, empty charges of
conspiracy, the histrionic nonsense, the tears, the
threats which marked his appearance before the
royal commission on Communism; in the hobnob-
bing with Communist officials, his hail-fellow-Well-
met attitude to them in court, and his subsequent
adoption of the Communist and Moscow policy in
foreign affairs.
It has been weeks since the Communist party
has needed to elucidate its own policy. Dr. Evatt,
with the support of “Labor,” has been doing it for
the polit-bureau most effectively. The “Tribune’s”
articles on Australian troops for Malaya do not
these days quote Mr. Sharkey or Mr. Dixon, but
Dr. Evatt. Dr. Evatt is the Communist’s accepted
political leader. They do not need to accuse Mr.
Laurie Short and his fellow-union-leaders of the
industrial-groups of receiving money from the
American Government as Mr. Rupert Lockwood
suggested in the notorious Document “J”—though
exactly why the American Government should buy
their favor is not clear, unless it is inferred that it is
for the purpose of turning them against Moscow. *
Anyway, Mr. Haylen, of Dr. Evatt’s Shadow
Cabinet, is now prepared to be the accuser. And
it is quite clear that he has had no other evidence
to support his word upon the matter than the
statements of the Communists.
Mr. Haylen said, when called on for evidence
in Parliament:—
It was alleged, and published on several
occasions, and not denied, that £7OOO had gone
to the groupers. People who are not subject to
hallucinations have been asking how the groupers
have been financed, how they have got their
expensive cars, trips abroad, and maintained a
high standard of living.
Mr. Haylen did not say who had been publishing
and asking these things, but a glimpse at the Com-
munist press makes it obvious—that is, unless Mr.
Haylen can produce substantial evidence of the
“asking” being done elsewhere.
. r^le fact that so many “Labor” Parliamen-
tarians, Federal and State, who have been esteemed
“moderate” should be willing to throw in their lot
with such a leader as Dr. Evatt and such a policy
as he enunciated on the foreign-affairs debate in
Parliament last week, is gravely disturbing. But
it appears to be true that “Labor” has in these
days no real policy about anything. Policy is an
individual matter, based on opportunism.
When it seemed that Socialism could be evolved
out of depression-conditions and that out of Social-
ism might come Communist dictatorship, the
A.L.P. leadership became riddled with Communists,
secret and otherwise. Sharkey, Garden and others
were tutors and mentors to A.L.P. branches. Some
Communists were brazenly sitting both in A.L.P.
bodies and the Central Committee of the Com-
munist Party. When hope of early revolution faded
“Labor” became moderate and respectable again.
When war seemed likely to make a policy of
cowardice a good vote-winner with the women and
shirkers, the Communists were back in control of
branches of the A.L.P., notably in N. S. Wales,
where the Hughes—Evans—Lloyd-Ross group com-
pletely controlled policy for a period—during
which, incidentally, the Evatt brothers decided to
re-enter politics.
When J. A. Beasley and Sol Rosevear exposed
this condition of affairs “Labor” once more had
a year of moderation. But “Labor” having
achieved Federal power, and having power also
in most States, it seemed that it might be possible
to evolve Socialism from war-time controls,
according to the doctrine of Mr. J. A. Ferguson
and other ex-Communists in the party. Dr. Evatt
brought down his Fourteen Points Bill tq introduce
the Soviet type of Constitution.
The end of the war, indeed, found Comrade
Jim Healy placing resolutions before the A.L.P.
conference, the “Labor” party establishing an
official organ with seven Communist-led unions as
its financiers, Mr. Leslie Haylen as editor, and a
gaggle of Communist journalists supplying signed
articles. The reactions of the public to the Banking
Act, however, put an end to this honeymoon—and
to “Labor” rule. The subsequent proceedings in
which Dr. Evatt, succeeding to the leadership, made
his appearance in the admired role of the “great
Liberal” to defeat the Communist-party Disso-
lution Act was followed by the era in which the
socialisation objective was jettisoned in order to
win favor from an electorate, which obviously was
hurtling towards a free-enterprise economy under
the influence of high wool-prices and boom.
But now “Labor” is back on its old tracks,
Socialist, pro-Communist, the moderates snarled at
and the capitalistic policies enunciated by Dr.
Evatt during the 1954 election-campaign forgotten.
It is obviously a matter of opportunism with
most members of the party. Some would follow the
sources of party-funds, it seems, almost into the
Kremlin itself.
Atomic Power, Not the Bomb
BEFORE Hiroshima the most destructive agent in
the world was fire. It still is, so far as actual
achievement is concerned, though the atom-bomb
has far outstripped it in potentiality. A city fire
may mean a loss of hundreds of thousands of
pounds in a few hours; the destruction caused by
a forest fire can run into millions. In Britain the
annual bill for fire-losses is £25 million; in the
U.S.A. it is twelve times that amount, and the
yearly toll in human lives is something like 15,000.
These figures are for countries in which fire-
fighting techniques are highly developed; the full
bill for which fire is responsible throughout the
whole world, either through the carelessness of man
or the callousness of Nature, is beyond computation.
Added to this, fire has long been, through the intro-
duction of explosives into warfare, the most
powerful weapon of wilful destruction.
It is impossible to conceive civilisation without
fire, and, although even the most primitive races
have legends to explain how fire first came to them,
no tribe has ever been discovered which does not
possess some knowledge of its use. The point of all
this is that in fire we have a natural force
potentially capable of destroying all life—at one
time worshipped, at all times feared—yet which
has been harnessed to man’s use and has given him
such beneficial service that although its inherent
menace has never been forgotten and never com-
pletely subdued, no one would for a moment con-
sider surrendering knowledge of it in order to
escape its menace.
In 1945, with terrifying suddenness and
thoroughness, atomic energy replaced fire as the
Number One destroyer, and the ten years since then
have been lived in the shadow of its threat. Against
the background of the cold war and with its signifi-
cance emphasised at frequent intervals by the testing
of bigger and better bombs, it is not surprising that
in the public mind the destructive possibilities of
nuclear energy have almost completely obscured its
potentialities for good. For, like man’s ancient
friend and enemy, fire, atomic energy can be tamed;
it can be a builder as well as a destroyer.
In the years before the war, when dreamers
scientific and unscientific spoke or wrote of unleash-
ing the power of the atom, they were not thinking
in terms of bombs or destruction, but of producing
power for industry on a cheap and universal scale.
They spoke of ships crossing the Atlantic on a
pound of fuel, of planes circling the globe on less,
of cities from which the smoke and grime of
industry had been entirely eliminated. Fantasy, of
course, but sober enough when placed beside the
twin pictures of Stone Age man rubbing two sticks
together and modem civilisation built upon fire.
At the present stage of development of nuclear
energy for peaceful use the dream of cheapness is
far from being realised. Cheapness is a relative
matter. Despite the enormous cost of producing
the atom-bomb and the hydrogen-bomb a case
can be made out for their cheapness on the grounds
that they are the most efficient instruments for the
purpose for which they were designed—mass
destruction. And if it comes to pass —as many
believe it will —that their very existence will prove
a deterrent to war, then their cheapness becomes
indisputable.
Nuclear power for industry is now accepted by
most scientists and Governments as being quite a
practicable proposition; the chief problems are
economic. In a general sense nuclear power cannot
yet be produced at a cost competitive with that from
coal- or oil-fuelled generators or hydroelectric
sources, but it is already cheap enough to be worth-
while as a supplementary source of power in specific
cases. A couple of years ago Professor Messel
remarked that while one would not consider build-
ing a nuclear-power station at Newcastle, “on the
other hand, a nuclear-power station at Yampi
Sound is a different kettle of fish.” A similar thought
was behind Premier Playford’s statement that the
power-houses now being built at Port Augusta
would be the last to be built in South Australia on
orthodox lines.
In Britain the chronic shortage of coal has
given a spur to the development of nuclear power.
Between this year and the end of 1965, £3OO
million is to be spent on the construction of 12
nuclear-power stations capable of generating
between 1500 and 2000 megawatts of electricity.
The latter figure is about 11 per cent, of the present
output of the British Electricity Authority. It is
not far short of the total output of all Australian
power-stations. The first two stations are to be
completed by 1960-61, two more by 1963, and the
remaining eight are to be in operation by 1965.
Advantage will be taken of improvements in
technique and design during the progress of the
programme.
The first.two stations will be of the same type
as the experimental station now under construction
at Calder Hall in Cumberland. They are described
as “gas-cooled graphite-moderated thermal reactors,
using as fuel natural uranium or slightly ‘enriched’
uranium—i.e., fuel having a slightly higher fissile
content than natural uranium.” They will bum
only a very small proportion of the uranium placed
in them, but will produce, in addition to heat, the
element plutonium, which does not occur in nature.
As the programme progresses this plutonium will
be used for enriching the charge in new reactors,
which will mean, among other things, that the cost
of fuelling the later stations will be considerably
lessened. In the matter of costs the effect of this
“enriching” is very difficult to assess, but it is
claimed that the cost of electricity from the first
commercial nuclear stations will be about 0.6 d. a
unit, which is approximately the same as that from
new coal-fired power-houses.
By the end of the ten-year period it is expected
that the nuclear stations will be saving 5-6 million
tons of coal a year. Looking further into the future
and envisaging a much greater demand for power,
the report thinks that it might be possible by 1975
to have nuclear-power stations with a capacity of
10,000 to 15,000 megawatts —equivalent to the out-
put of 40 million tons of coal. The White Paper
discounts the notion that nuclear-power installa-
tions are particularly dangerous. No such thing
as an atomic explosion in them is possible, and the
known dangers of radioactivity can be guarded
against. The reactors “will present no more danger
to people living near by than many existing
industrial works that are sited in built-up areas.”
Nor is it thought that the safe disposal of radio-
active waste-products will present a major difficulty.
The British programme and the wording of its
presentation to the people show no fear that the
destructive capacity of the new builder-destroyer
will triumph over its possibilities for good. The
White Paper concludes;—
Improved living-standards, both in advanced
industrial countries like our own and in the vast
underdeveloped countries overseas, can only come
about through the increased use of power The
coming of nuclear power therefore marks the
beginning of a new era.... The stakes are high
the final reward will be immeasurable. We must
keep ourselves in the forefront of the develop-
ment of nuclear power so that we can play our
proper part in harnessing this new form of energy
for the benefit of mankind.
Australians with any experience of bushfires
are familiar with the tactics of lighting a small
controllable fire in order to avoid a bigger, uncon-
trollable one—of using fire to fight fire. Perhaps it
is not too much to hope that the peaceful use of
atomic energy may bring about a state of affairs
in which the world will-not be tempted to use the
atomic bomb.


AFTER OLD EVATT'S WORK WAS DONE
“But things like that, you know, must be
At every famous victory”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Catholics and Communism
The Roman Catholic Bishops of Aus-
tralia, in a joint Pastoral, have said that
it is a well-known fact that during the last
10 years Catholics in Australia have
endeavored to form a strong public opinion
against Communist activities in our
community.
Thqy go on to point out that “Australian
public opinion failed,, to realise that in
the year 1945 every major trade-union,
with one exception, was in the hands of
the Communists.”
In spite of the general apathy many
citizens of different religious faiths
courageously dedicated themselves to the
organised task of helping trade-unionists
to elect officials who were opposed to
Communism....
This great work of fighting and stem-
ming Communist aggression wherever it
shows itself has our full support and
approval.
“It is therefore most deplorable that
the only effective way yet found of
defeating Communism in industrial life
has been destroyed for the moment by
political intrigue.”
It has been generally accepted that the
bishops’ mention of “the organised task
of defeating Communism” refers to the
industrial-groups (from which the A.L.P.
has withdrawn recognition), and though
it is stated that “the Church is not con-
cerned with party politics as such,” this is
probably the most open and forthright
statement on a matter of local politics that
has come from the Catholic Church in
this generation.
The reception to the bishops’ Pastoral
has been mixed, according largely to
political color. Dr. Evatt was voluble.
“I must say that the basic thinking
expressed in it corresponds very closely
indeed with the well-known speech of
Mr. Santamaria on which the Federal
executive of the A.L.P. pronounced
judgment,” he said in the course of a
lengthy attack, in which he accused the
industrial-groups of being a fifth-
column within the A.L.P., “not so much
for the purpose of combating Commun-
ism as for the very different purpose of
capturing control of ,the machinery of
the party.”
Other members qf the A.L.P. who have
not been so closely associated profess-
sionally and politically with Communists
as Dr. Evatt have been more judicial in
their comments. Senator McKenna,
Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,
who is a supporter of Evatt in the present
A.L.P. split, said
I believe that every member of the
Federal Parliamentary Labor party sub-
scribes to the Pastoral’s view of the evil
nature and aims of Corpmunism....
Industrial-groups, despite the merits of their
efforts in ridding some unions of Commun-
ist control, are not entitled to all the credit.
McKenna gives kudos to the Chifley
Government’s union-ballot legislation —
but he naturally failed to mention that
it was the Menzios Government’s vital
amendment to the Arbitration Act which
made the secret ballot possible and
workable.
Later Laurence Short, who ousted
Comrade Ernie Thornton as national
secretary of the Federated Ironworkers,
said that the essential work of fighting
Communism in the unions was not a
Roman Catholic monopoly. “Five out
of six full-time officers in the Sydney
branch of the union, the largest in the
organisation, are non-Catholics,” he said.
“In other unions also most industrial-
group supporters are not Roman
Catholics,” he added.
There will be more sound and fury
about the industrial-groups and the
“Santamaria faction” as the Victorian
elections progress and other elections
come in sight. Already Dr. Evatt has
concocted a “Menzies-Fadden-Santa-
maria” link. But above all the noise
and confusion, charges and counter-
charges, it should never be lost to sight
that the Evatt party has been “softened”
through and through by Communist
influence, by the power of the
Communist-controlled trade-unions and
by other forces. And Dr. Evatt’s
“foreign” policy should shock everyone
this side of the Iron Curtain.
Two Divisions
Some objection, has been raised to Mr.
Menzies’s scheme for two divisions to
meet the needs of a sudden outbreak of
war in South-East Asia; it is said to be
impracticable.
It is certainly ambitious, but the
objectors are obviously thinking of it
in terms of what will be comfortable and
not of what will be necessary. There
can be no doubt about the practicality
of the scheme even if the task will be
considerable.
Britain, including Northern Ireland,
has about five and a half times the
population of Australia. It was a
bombed country, knocked groggy with
five years of war when the first glimmers
of peace came to it. It has, throughout
its period of recovery, succeeded in
keeping its military forces at what it
considers a necessary level without
denuding industry dangerously of labor.
But it works up to 46 hours a week in
industry.
In the United Kingdom, of course,
even workmen look upon the place as
their country to which they owe
patriotism and defence service; in Aus-'
tralia the “Labor” party does its best to
imbue citizens with the ideal that they
owe nothing to country except when
“Labor” is in power.
Two divisions might mean, at full
“slice” strength, from 120,000 to 140,000
men, taking those involved right back to
home-base, with perhaps 200,000 tons of
shipping or air equivalent to serve them.
Britain, with about 50,000,000 popula-
tion, maintained last year 25,000 officers
and 308,000 men in the Army garrisons
of Europe plus 11,000 officers and
184,500 men in garrisons outside Europe.
The grand total, including 78,000 colonial
and Gurkha troops, was 549,000. In
addition to this, it kept up 13 aircraft-
carriers, five battleships—some in moth-
balls—26 cruisers, appropriate destroyer-
squadrons, and about 60 submarines with
139,000 officers and men in the R.N.
The effective strength of the R.A.F. was
about 275,000 last year. The total under
arms was round about 960,000.
There is no shilly-shallying about con-
scription in either the United Kingdom
or the United States when men are
needed. National-service-men in the
U.K. do two years with the Active
Army and then do three weeks’ training
a year for 3i years on compulsory
reserve. If they are needed to serve in
the front-line in Korea or Malaya they
are sent there.
Nobody asks whether it will interfere
with their attendance at- the races, or the
dogs, or whether they object to missing
the Rugby League or Soccer matches for
the coming season.
In Australia, of course, with a smaller
population and a less developed economy,
there are special problems, but none
quite so pressing as that of providing a
proper margin of safety to assure
survival.
Socialist Ducks and Eggs
Nationalisation has been a vital issue in
two British elections, and it looks like
playing an important part in a third. In
1950 the Attlee Government went to the
country with the Steel Nationalisation
Bill on the statute-books, but with its
proclamation postponed until after the
election. It came back with a tiny
majority and almost immediately brought
the greater part of the steel industry
under State ownership.
Eighteen months later there was an-
other election at which the Conserva-
tives pledged themselves to denationalise
steel and road-transport, which had also
been taken over by the Socialists.
Churchill’s party won the election and
restored the two industries to private
ownership. Now the Attlees are promis-
ing or threatening to renationalise them
if they are restored to power on May 26.
At the time of the attempted Bank Grab
in this country there was much talk of
the difficulty of unscrambling scrambled
eggs or of restoring the feathers to a
plucked duck. Apparently the Churchill
Government evolved a formula for
accomplishing these difficult tasks,
although it seems that there are still a
few feathers left over and a litle yolk to
be squeezed back into the shell. Polling-
day will decide whether the scrambling
and plucking are to begin all over again,
as Attlee’s election manifesto proclaims
Labor’s intention of re-nationalising both
industries and also to nationalise the
chemical and machine-tools industries.
Labor’s dilemma can, of course, be
appreciated. It is no use proclaiming
yourselves Socialists if you give up when
your first attempts at socialisation are
thwarted. The programme must go on.
The slogan must be “Pass the eggs. We’ll
crack ’em again. Bring in the ducks.
We’ll get the feathers out for good this
time.” Those may be inspiring thoughts
for doctrinaire Socialists and others who
still believe that Government ownership
is the answer to all Britain’s problems,
but their effect on the swinging voters
on whom the result of the election de-
pends will be far from inspiring. They
will probably want to know how far this
off-again-on-again policy is to go.
Mr. Attlee has not intentionally made
re-nationalisation the main issue of his
campaign, but he may find it difficult to
avoid its becoming so. In matters of
domestic policy it is the chief line of
divergence from the Conservative pro-
gramme and along with plans for a re-
sumption of Government bulk-buying and
a return to price-control it again faces
the electors with the problem of deciding
whether they want Britain to become a
Socialist country. All recent indications
—by-elections, local-government elections
and public-opinion polls —suggest that
they do not.
Jams in Melbourne
Melbourne, which hasn’t the topo-
graphical problems of Sydney to face in
its street-traffic tangle, is nevertheless be-
ginning to fear that it is close to satura-
tion-point both as to parking and moving
traffic. Shortly there’ll come a day when
the .whole mass will jam itself and be
stuck from Victoria-street to Princes
Bridge.
A survey by the City Engineer dis-
covered that at any given time between
8 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday to Friday,
no fewer than 46,000 vehicles can be
found parked inside the city’s square
mile, about 35,000 of them on the kerbs.
Less than 3000 park off the streets, and
about 5700 park in the centre-road spaces
provided by the City Council.
A great proportion of the kerb-parked
vehicles move on in less than 30 minutes,
but as each moves out another takes its
place. Thus, for moving traffic, the streets
are always narrower by the width of two
vehicles, and there is constant edging to
corners, cutting both turning-room for
moving vehicles and crossing-room for
pedestrians. Off-street parking areas in-
side the city are few and small, and what
space they offer is mostly occupied by
cars staying all day.
Melbourne is facing what every other
Australian city is facing: The fact that
its streets were made and its buildings
erected in a bygone time when nobody
could have dreamed of modern traffic.
English cities face the same thing. But
whereas English cities are stuck with it,
their only choice being to go underground
or up in the air, Australian cities are not.
For them the answer is plainly decentrali-
sation, since each of them is surrounded
by comparatively unoccupied country.
Australians talk much about decentrali-
sation but do little about it. Two things
have arisen which will shortly force them
to do something, willy-nilly. Let’s hope
the first is traffic-congestion. The other,
the H-bomb, is too painful a spur.
The Soldier and the Student
A strange by-product of the Colombo
Plan was demonstrated by 24 Malayan
students in Sydney last week. Australia
is a “white” country, but it receives
Asiatic students, helped by the plan,
gives them the benefit of our colleges
and universities, so overcrowded that
they cannot properly accommodate our
own Australians, and treats them with
every kind of goodwill.
During the last war the Malayans did
little to defend themselves, though some
were quick to criticise the British for
not defending them.
Last week 24 of these visitors thought
fit to write to the “S.M. Herald” on the
subject of Australian troops being sent
to Malaya. They declared that, in their
opinion, Mr. Menzies’s announcement
was no matter for rejoicing:
Our opinion is that no self-respecting
citizen will tolerate the presence of
foreign troops, friendly or otherwise.
This need not mean that we are hostile
to foreigners. Rather, we would welcome
foreigners as friends, but not soldiers
trampling over the whole country.
They wrote that how the addition of
a battalion or two of Australian feroops
to the “already overcrowded military
situation can speed us to self-govern-
ment we are at a loss to see, or at the
moment too dull to appreciate.” They
declared that the “preponderance of
troops already in Malaya (350,000) will
make the latter a military nonentity in
the event of a hot war,” and “mean-
while it is a source of irritation and
resentment to the locals.”
To whatever race the main signatory to
the letter and his fellow-students belong,
the education which they are imbibing in
Australia, partly at the expense of the
Australian taxpayers, is not doing them
much good.
If it were not for the 350,000 “foreign
troops”—who, incidentally, include a
pretty solid slice of Malay guards and
police—Malaya would be now a Com-
munist Chinese province. They are
“trampling over the whole country” —
and have been dying all over it —for the
purpose of assuring that the structure of
Malayan independence can be completed.
It has been so far advanced that the free
Singapore elections recently returned a
Leftist party.
In ah the circumstances Australians
might try to discover how far the opinions
of these students represent those of the
entire body of students from Malaya who
are enjoying our hospitality and how
much it benefits Australian-Malayan
relations to have a bunch of visitors of
military age as guests here “trampling
all over the whole country” and joining
in local political debates as if they were
electors.
There should be no room for students
who are prepared to use their positions
here to insult the Australian forces whose
graves lie from one end of Malaya to
the other, and to whom Malaya owes
an undying debt.
Debunking from the Inside
“Stromlo”: Seldom, if ever, has Dr.
Evatt put so much thought and effort
into the preparation of a speech as that
which he gave in the House of Reps,
last week, and seldom has so huge a
collection of fashioned phrases been
blown into smithereens so effectively.
“The Doc’s” effort was blasted by
another “Labor” man, Robert Joshua,
leader of the “Anti-Communist Labor
party” in a devastingly crisp attack in
which “Labor’s” book of rules was
quoted to demonstrate to the House and
the nation that the Evatt arguments were
along the Communist “line.”
Evatt’s speech—long, detailed, and
dull as ever in its delivery—finally bored
even those members who still profess to
follow him. In its initial stages it was
a dirge for the dear departed days of
1945 “when I was president of the
General Assembly.” Then it veered into
an echo of Attlee that the Western
Powers must learn to live with the Com-
munist ones, and that some common
ground could be found with the Soviet
and Peking China. Finally Evatt criti-
cised the sending of forces to Malaya,
and regretted that the sittings of Parlia-
ment had prevented “Labor” from send-
ing “official observers” to Bandoeng.
Mr. Casey, who followed, stressed that
the doctrine of interdependence in S.-E.
Asia, as expressed at Seato, had given
heart and hope and confidence to the
countries of the area, but it was left to
Joshua to deliver the really crushing
response. He told the House that “the
Doc.” had foisted his foreign policy on
a non-representative conference of the
party by chicanery and trickery of the
worst sort. Reading from the rules of
the party, he showed that in support of
U.N., in advocacy of sending forces to
Malaya, the Prime Minister had actually
expressed the real policy, not merely of
Australia but even of “Labor.” He
reminded members that Communist
China and Russia were always aggres-
sive, and that Russia today would never
be admitted to U.N. under the Charter.
He added that Malaya was the place
where Australia should be protected, and
that bases there were of the first
importance.
Then came the finale. Joshua said he
supported the raising of troops by volun-
tary methods until it was properly decided
to raise them otherwise, as “Labor” had
done during the war. “Wonderful repre-
sentation” had been arranged at Ban-
doeng with Dr. Burton. Dr. Evatt’s un-
doubted ability was not being directed
towards achieving any good purpose for
Australia at all. For years his speeches
had brought some advantage to the Com-
munists. “I denounce his non-‘Labor’
statement,” said Joshua. “He is not a
‘Labor’ man, and is not fit to lead the
‘Labor’ party.” There were some half-
hearted interjections from the “Labor”
benches, but most members listened in
silent unease.
Existence—on Red Terms
“In the ACT”: Anyone in Asia or Aus-
tralia who is still deluded by Communist
propaganda should be compelled to read
the grimly factual account of the treat-
ment of British prisoners-of-war in Korea,
issued as a booklet by the U.K. Defence
Ministry. The stark, if often stupid,
methods of their Chinese captors are set
down without dramatics, and the story
can be regarded as a blueprint of what
would happen in any country where the
same gentry happened to gain control
by war or subversion.
It is pointed out that the Chinese used
every device, from moral pressure to
physical torture, to convert the prisoners
they captured to the Communist view-
point and to use them to further Com-
munist aims. The tactics were not hastily
(Continued on next page)


devised ; they were the result of a genera-
tion of experience in dealing with cap-
tured soldiers of the’"' Kuomintang. The
results showed that officers and senior
n.c.o.’s (about 12 per cent, of the total
British captured) remained almost com-
pletely unaffected by Communist propa-
ganda, while the junior n.c.o.’s and pri-
vates about two-thirds were unaffected.
Of the rest, most absorbed sufficient in-
docrination to be classed as Communist-
sympathisers, but a majority is believed
to have responded on release to the
influence of normal home-life. “A small
minority—-about 40 altogether—returned
home convinced Communists,” but some
of these had Communist leanings or
affiliations before they went to Korea.
The prisoners had expected rough or
brutal treatment, but they had not thought
of themselves as students of politics
under the tutelage of Communist guards.
The booklet gives a picture of the methods
used in “re-education,” of the discipline
and punishment, of the “peace” cam-
paign, of the use of informers, and of the
methods of “persuasion.” The lessons it
teaches are highlighted by examples of
courageous resistance, in some cases of
such magnificent defiance that awards
for gallantry were given on release.
There are, of course, cases where men
broke down under mental or physical
torture.
The captors were* almost all Chinese,
members of the nation seeking U.N. mem-
bership now, and seeking, through mil-
lions of its nationals elsewhere in Asia,
to subvert those nations which lie be-
tween Australia and that portion of China
under the domination of Peking. They
are the gentry who in the long haul have
their ideas on Australia and its neighbors.
The facts which are shown in this book-
let, and in other records released since
the Korean war, should be remembered
by all who have dealings with the Chinese,
and by all who believe that these Com-
munists, and their Russian fellows, can
be regarded as normal human beings, to
be treated as equals in human day-by-day
relationships. In their inhuman abnor-
mality, the Communists should be
reckoned with as moronic animals. Their
dupes in Australia and elsewhere should
be told the truth, the whole truth, before
further damage is done.
POLITICAL POINTS
Was that Pastoral Letter suggesting
that the Doc. be turned out to grass ?
• •
Cain is reported to have asked Cahill
to help in his election campaign. He’s a
beggar for punishment; most men would
consider they were carrying enough
weight with Bert on their backs.
• «
Rowley James’s “bloody” wasn’t Par-
liamentary after all (B. 27 / 4/’55).
Speaker Cameron made him withdraw it
next day. But the withdrawal was a win-
ner. James explained that he had merely
been adopting the practice commended
by the Speaker of putting the adjective
before the noun. This was how Cameron
had*justified his calling of Joshua’s party
“the Anti-Communist Australian Labor
Party” after Joshua had referred to it as
“the Australian Labor Party, Anti-Com-
munist.”
• #
Senator McKenna, disputing the claim
that the industrial-groups deserved most
of the credit for freeing some unions from
Communist control, said that the Chifley
Government’s legislation empowering the
Arbitration Court to order secret ballots
was the groups’ most powerful weapon.
That is not so. The Chifley bill provided
for a secret ballot only if asked for by the
union, which meant that for the purpose of
enabling the rank and file to get rid of a
Communist executive it was useless. The
Menzies Government’s amendment of
1951 gave the court power to conduct a
secret ballot on the application of a sub-
stantial group of members. This amend-
ment, which was bitterly opposed by the
Evatt party, made the secret ballot a real
weapon instead of a sham.
0 0
An Evatt man won the “Labor” pre-
selection for Cook (N.S.W.), when J.
Cope, with 885 votes, beat K. Dwyer 812.
Dwyer was the Grouper nominee ; as an
outcome of the unity proceedings he has
pledged support for his vanquisher.
0 0
Just before Brisbane electors voted in
a new City Council on Saturday they dis-
covered that though 299,480 Brisbane
citizens were enrolled for the last State
election, there were 296,436 on the roll
for the council election. What became of
the other 3044 is anybody’s guess. Both
the Lord Mayor and the aspiring Lord
Mayor (“Labor”) said it was a matter for
the State Electoral Office. It is also a
matter for suspicion.
0 0
Announcement that a Chair of Traffic
Engineering was to be set up in the N.S.W.
University of Technology l prompted one
Canberra lobbyist to suggest that an
expert in the subject might be usefully
assigned to the “Labor” corridors. Or,
alternatively, one of the underground
engineers from the Snowy might find
uses for his talents there.
0 0
Voluntary blood-tests to assist the
courts in cases of motorists charged with
“driving under the influence” are to be
advocated by the Road Safety Council.
It will try to dispel prejudices against the
tests and demonstrate their value.
Drivers whose blood is (alcoholically)
worth bottling may look on the idea with
a bloodshot eye.
0 ©
First official shot in the Victorian
election-campaign will be fired tomorrow
night when Liberal leader Bolte will de-
liver his policy-speech at Ararat. Barry
will open for the breakaway “Labor”
group at Fitzroy Town Hall on Friday,
and on Monday night Cain, supported by
Evatt and “Labor” leaders from five
States, will hold his meeting at North-
cote. Later Menzies and McEwen will
enter the lists. One meeting to be
addressed by Menzies will be in support
of Test-cricketer Sam Loxton, L.C.P.
candidate for Prahran.
0 0
Cahill and Hawke will be present in
person on Cain’s platform ; so will S.A.
Opposition-leader O’Halloran. Queens-
land and Tasmanian “Labor” will be rep-
resented by Deputy-Premiers Duggan
and Fagan.
• •
Megan Lloyd George has joined the
British Labor party with the comment
that only there can she find “the true
radical tradition.” Either she or Labor
must have changed since 1950 when, as
deputy-leader of the Liberals she pro-
claimed that her party, as “traditional
guardians of liberty,” would continue to
be “the vigilant watchdogs of freedom
against all maurauders, whether they be
Tories or Socialists, and both need
watching.”
• •'
British Labor’s declared policy includes
a return of Government purchase of
foodstuffs, price-control and consumer-
subsidies. This has led Conservative
critics to claim that a sequel would be a
return of food-rationing, shortages and
queues. London “Daily Herald,” Labor’s
official paper, calls this a “Tory lie,”
pointing out that Labor’s policy statement
specifically declares that rationing will
not be brought back. That’s all very well.
Good intentions are one thing ; ability to
carry them out another.
• •
The peacemakers who organised the
“unity”-move in “Labor’s” faction fight
are wasting their talents. U.N.O. should
co-opt them to arrange settlements be-
tween Peking and Formosa, North and
DOUBLE TROUBLE
(Clive AND Bert)
“Now I MUST be seeing double!”
South Korea and East and West Ger-
many. If only half Evatt’s allegations
are true the contending parties in those
three disputes cannot possibly be any
further apart in principle than the
Groupers and Anti-Groupers.
But the unity-move is strictly a New
South Wales affair; it doesn’t go south
of the Murray. Victorian Grouper
M.P.’s, State and Federal, are still all
the Doc. said they were ; their colleagues
north of the border are without stain.
• •
A few years ago an election-promise
by a Conservative Government to “re-
house at least 200,000 slum-dwellers an-
nually” would have been received with
cynical smiles. But four years ago
Churchill’s manifesto promised to build
300,000 homes a year. Labor critics
scoffed at the figure, but under Harold
Macmillan it was reached and bettered.
• •
There’s to be an Apprenticeship Week
in Sydney, during which lads are to be
adjured to become apprentices, it being
said that industry is so short of them that
a serious lack of tradesmen looms ahead.
Meantime Government transport, State
instrumentalities, banks, Federal offices —
all feverishly compete to get lads into
white-collar jobs.
« •
When the Victorian Employers’ Federa-
tion declared that there was a large group
of over-age people seeking jobs, various
South Australian voices arose declaring
that 6000 jobs of “all descriptions” were
available in S.A. and anybody over 50
willing and able to work'‘could get it.
When this news hit Melbourne it visibly
brightened the future for sundry “Labor”
members of the Spring-street Parliament.
• •
President Eisenhower says he has a
feeling that world-peace prospects are
“on the upswing.” They’d better be.
There’s only one end to it if they keep
on the downswing.
• •
Parking-meters (6d. for half-hour, Is.
an hour) now operate in Melbourne
streets. But if you buy time you can’t
give any away. In the view of a City
Council official:
The council rents parking-space to
motorists strictly on an individual basis.
If one motorist pays for an hour and uses
only’ 20 minutes that does not give him the
right to present the unexpired time to any-
one else, nor does it give anyone else the
right to use that time. The council is
entitled to any benefit there might be. It’s
like a train- or tram-ticket.
It is not like a train- or tram-ticket. It
is like the City Council’s hide.
• •
Suspension, not tension, seems to be
the prevailing condition among “Labor”
members these days.
• •
Transfer to Canberra has so far been
avoided successfully by 6500 Federal
employees, of whom 4000 are in the
Defence departments, mostly in Mel-
bourne. The Public Service Board says
that the administrative building in Can-
berra, which has been under construction
for many years, will accommodate some
1600 additional staff from Melbourne
when it is finished, but doesn’t mention
when this will be or which departments
are lined-up for transfer. The board
urges the preparation of plans to house
the remaining departments, as the separa-
tion of the central departments is “a
serious administrative weakness in the
organisation of the machinery of
Government.”
• •
Lord Mayor Hills, who is also Cahill
M.L.A. for King, says that Sydney City
Council’s plan to establish a community
hotel has been “thrown into the melting-
pot.” In that case it won’t be lonely;
it’ll have the whole of the N. S. Wales
“Labor” party for company..
• e
“Actin’’: Screams of “monopoly inter-
ests” are still issuing from the “Labor”
benches (Evatt segment) whenever TV is
mentioned in Parliament in Canberra.
P.M.G. Anthony pointed out last week
that the successful applicants for licences
represented a cross-section of Australian
industry and commercial interests which
could scarcely be bettered. The public,
relieved that Evatt and Go. did not suc-
ceed in their application, are not inter-
ested in “Labor’s” sour grapes. Now that
we are to have TV people want it as soon
as practicable, and with plenty of com-
petition to keep standards high.
• •
Legislation to amend the Common-
wealth-States Housing Agreement to
facilitate the purchase of homes by
tenants is now before the Federal Parlia-
ment. It follows the lines indicated in
the Prime Minister’s policy-speech last
year. The original agreement made pro-
vision for the purchase of homes, but
only for cash; the amendment provides
for liberal terms. Of 81,000 homes built
under the agreement, only 3800 have
been sold.
• •
A vital point in the faction fight turned
on whether the N. S. Wales A.L.P. con-
ference should be held under 1953 rules
or 1954 rules. The 1953’s won. It is
maintained that Rafferty’s rules had noth-
ing whatever to do with it.
• •
Total number of persons on unemploy-
ment-relief at April 12 was 3892, scarcely
large enough to be described as a per-
centage. At the same date there were
61,181 vacant jobs registered with the
Commonwealth Employment Office. No
wonder the Doc. started his heresy-hunt.
The old bogy of unemployment which
he looked like riding to victory three
years ago hasn’t a scare left in it.
• •
N.S.W. Public Service Association
came out strongly against the Cahill
policy of “jobs for the boys,” and attacked
“Labor” appointments, to “big” jobs for
which senior public servants weren’t
given a chance. They’re to ask the
Cahills to legislate to allow them to appeal
agains( appointments of persons “outside
the service.” Very good, but why spoil
it all by demanding a 35-hour week on
the grounds that the present 36 \ hours
doesn’t allow sufficient time “for a lunch-
break?”
• •
“Stromlo”: We are reported to be
getting “atomic secrets” from the U.S.
as part-payment for uranium oxide from
our “unbelievably rich” uranium-fields.
Are we, in fact, getting any, and, if so,
what use is being made of them? Plans
for using atomic energy for peaceful pur-
poses in this country seem bogged down
somewhere. And where are these “un-
believably rich” uranium-fields? No in-
vestor seems to be aware of them.
• •
No sooner had some Federal members
got back to Canberra after six months’
holiday on full pay and with all “perks”
than they started flying a kite for another
£5OO a year. Anyone can guess what
their excuse will be: Well, all the public-
service boys just got big rises.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
ABOARD STRATHEDEN,
NAVARINOU BAY.
AUSTRALIANS, homing or migrant,
today crowded the deck of the
Stratheden to hear Greece’s message of
thanks to the crew of this liner. During
March, in raging seas, three lifeboats
left the liner to rescue those of the
doomed ship lason. Only two returned,
and eight of the Stratheden crew gave
their lives. Today the Greek marine
representatives boarded the anchored
Stratheden in Navarinou Bay to pay
tribute to the gallant rescuers. The cere-
mony was brief. Under overcast skies the
ship’s commander, Kah. Cummins, wel-
comed the visitors. The Greek represen-
tatives voiced the heartfelt thanks of
Greece to the assembled crew. The sur-
viving rescuers faced the Greek com-
manders to receive the tribute of appre-
ciation. The rocky shores of the little
town were packed with the fishing-folk.
Fishing-boats lay at anchor. Passengers
and crew waved farewell as the Greek
launch returned to the shore. —“N.C.”
<* <* ❖
“Keeper”: They’ll do anything to win
a bet around Brisbane. A 23-year-old
13-stone ex-lifesaver dived 60ft. from the
bridge-deck of the 6189-ton ship Trienza
at Pinkenba for two glasses of beer.
“If you called me THAT in the House the Speaker Would have you
thrown out by the Sergeant-at-arms."
Later, to prove he wasn’t scared, or didn’t
have to do it for beer, he repeated the
performance.
❖ ❖
“Archaen”: On May 6 Adelaide’s
Theatre Royal goes up for auction.
Many are hoping it will be bought by
somebody who will retain it as a theatre.
There are some catches: it needs air-
conditioning ; the proscenium arch is
cracked ; major repairs needed. But the
advantages far outweigh them. It stands
on a valuable site, only a few doors from
King William-street. Small as theatres
go, it has wonderful acoustics. No
amplifiers are needed to take the voice of
a player to the farthest corner of back-
stalls or gallery. Those who have given
it unstinted praise include Melba,
Allan Wilkie, Oscar Asche and Laurence
Olivier. Adelaide’s old-established Reper-
tory Theatre would buy it like a shot if
it had the cash, but its theatre-purr
chase fund, built up over the years, is
only around the £20,000 mark —and an-
other nought would have to be tacked on
to that to swing a deal of this
size.
♦> ❖ ❖
“O’Johnno”: It’s still done. A Laun-
ceston old-age pensioner and his wife,
going off in the evening to the dogs, put
between £7OO and £BOO in a tin, crept
into the back-garden, and hid the stuff
in a cluster of bushes. When they re-
turned the tin and its contents were gone.
Police later found the empty tin. The
missing money belonged to the man’s two
sons, who had entrusted it to Dad for
safe-keeping so that it might be available
for buying a business.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cauboy”: One hundred years of
musical associations went up in smoke
when Allan’s warehouse opposite The
Bulletin office in Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, blazed to a gutted ruin. Grand
pianos tumbled from one floor to another,
sheets of music and box-office plans
rained down on the crowd ; and the rows
of little sound-proof cubicles where
generations of singers, pianists and
fiddlers, some of them now famous, were
put through their first paces, exploded
one after the other. Nellie Melba, Galli-
Curci, Clara Butt, Dolores, Pavlova,
Harry Lauder, Chaliapin and Paderewski
called at Allan’s at times to see how their
bookings were progressing, and the Tait
firm had its genesis in the building. John
Tait got his start there 70-odd years
ago as a messenger-boy at five-bob a
week, He made his first big money out
of a world-famous virtuoso. The great
man wanted a cheque cashed at the
National Bank across the street, and John
was charged with the commission. The
future impresario, who subsequently sold
prima donnas, celebrated tenors and bal-
lerinas over his theatrical counter to the
tune of millions, was a dazed lad when
he looked in the palm of his hand and
found a tip of half-a-sovereign.
❖ ❖ ❖
“E. &O. E.”: Search for the origin of
that ill-used and overworked word “lady”
led me to discover that- it owns a long
and honorable pedigree. Pure English in
descent, its roots are to be found in an
Anglo-Saxon word meaning “loaf-
kneader,” which pleasantly suggests the
“virtuous woman” of the Bible. The
“loaf-kneader’s” other-half was known as
the “loaf-ward,” or “loaf-keeper,” In
modem English, a lord.
♦> ►>
“Phil Anthus”: Having complained in
a par. some weeks ago that the cricket-
scribes had mislaid much of their lyricism
during the England-Australia series, it is
seemly that I should acknowledge the
efforts of one of the band to keep the
gaudy flag flying in the West Indies. As
the Second Test there moved along, he
informed us per cable that “Weekes and
“We now cross to the ringside for tonight’s big fight..."
Walcott’s great partnership was like a
swiftly flowing river that gathered up
every Australian bowler on its journey” ;
and then, lest we should fear the worst, he
added hurriedly that our fellows, both
bowlers and fieldsmen, “hung on like
drowning men.” That. news was bad
enough. But, only a few pars further
along, we learned that our flannelled
heroes narrowly escaped being burned
alive. “It was Weekes and Walcott,” the
correspondent confided, “who lit the fire,
and Australia is fortunate that it did not
develop into a general conflagration.”
Personally, I should have thought that
after being “gathered up” by a “swiftly
flowing river,” those soused players of
ours would have welcomed a fire or two,
or even a “general conflagration,”
“Ceg”: Those people who were wait-
ing at the teller’s counter in the bank (B.
13/4/’55) were not “clients” —they were
customers, if anything. The relationship
is banker and customer, and the latter
word is always used in bank text-books
and in the Bills of Exchange Act.
Broadly, lawyers have clients, doctors
have patients, banks and shops have
customers. This use of “client” is a mild
sort of snobbery; I have noticed that
ladies’-hairdressers refer to their victims
as clients. Even some of the banks them-
selves use the word in their advertise-
ments, and they ought to know better.
❖ ❖ ❖
“W.S.”: Prahran (Vic.) has been hav-
ing elaborate arrangements made for the
celebrating of its centenary. It can claim
a number of pioneering achievements:
(a) Prahran grocers and their assistants
were first in the State to observe a half-
holiday. The practice was instituted on
Thursday, March 11, 1865 ; shops closing
at 2 p.m., and a sports-carnival being
held in Fawkner Park, (b) The founder
of Maple’s (1886) was one of the first in
Victoria (which State led the field) to
grasp the possibilities of time-payment.
One effect was to put pianos within the
reach of the wage-earner (perhaps a
doubtful boon?), (c) In 1906 the Austra-
lasian Jam Co. claimed to be the only
firm in Australia closing its jams without
solder, (d) In 1900 Mr. Herbert Thomson
(Malvern-road) drove the pioneer car of
his own manufacture from Bathurst to
Melbourne, 493 miles, in 56 hours. An-
other pioneer motor-concern was Tarrant
Motor Co. (e) The first railway-engine
built in Victoria is said to have been
made by Enoch Chambers at his foundry
in Charles-street, Prahran.
“Quo Vadis”: The “oasis” city of Mt.
Isa, nor’-west Queensland, famed for its
mineral wealth and owning a present
population of 10,000, has been granted
the State’s first licence for a drive-in
theatre. It will accommodate 300 cars,
and will be situated on the outskirts, on
the Mt Isa-Camooweal-road,
*X+ ❖
“R.G.”: Melbourne’s outer-suburban-
ites are also mourning the passing of
the bottle-oh, but “Bo’s” idea
of the dead-marine industry (B.
13/4/’55) is faulty. Says Colin
McLachlan, secretary of the
Licensed Marine Dealers’ Association:
“Nobody wants to be a bottle-oh when he
can get an easier and better-paid job
elsewhere.” Most of the present race of
bottle-ohs are in their fifties, and they
have to feed their horses and maintain
their carts from earnings. McLachlan
reckons that an average daily haul of 60
dozen marines at a bob a dozen doesn’t
add up to a lucrative business. I think
he’s right. So much for “Bo’s” bonanza!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jaydee”: Don’t agree with “Stan”
(B. 13/4/’55) about angle-parking tail-in
to the kerb. This was the rule at Cronulla
Beach (N.S.W.) not *so long ago—it may
be still in force —and it was far safer
than the nose-in position. When rejoin-
ing the stream of traffic, drivers had a
good view of oncoming cars, and there
was no blind and dangerous backing-out.
Only a mug driver would cavil at having
to reverse into a parking-space. Has
“Stan” ever tried to park along the kerb
between two other vehicles with only
about 4ft. to spare fore and aft? Nose-in
he’ll still be trying long after this par.
is paid for, but reversing in will put him
close against the kerb in only a couple
of movements. Anyone who can’t do it
had better find a couple of empty 44-
gallon drums and a quiet street and do
some solid practice.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Stoker”: It has been reported that at
the N.S.W. Police Association’s annual
conference a detective, in asking
that their clothing-allowance be in-
creased, made the remark that detec-
tives should be permitted to dress
like gentlemen. Later on, Clarence, a
con.-man of long-standing, was asked
(unofficially) to comment. He brushed
an imaginary speck of dust from his
hand-tailored suit, adjusted the angle of
his Stetson, and observed: “I see no
reason whatsoever why they should not
be allowed to dress at least as well as we
chaps.” Perce the pickpocket, however,
answered differently. He said: “A few
years in the Force and they begin to think
they’re too good for the likes of us.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.A.L.”: Over the last ten years the
“Ice Age” has been receding at a remark-
able rate in our street. At war’s-end every
home had the iceman calling ; in the suc-
ceeding years his customers grew fewer.
Last week he made his last call at the
only house he was still serving, the owner
having finally bought a fridge. No
glacier-carved earth-furrows mark the
passing of the Age, but there are plenty
on householders’ brows when t.-p.-instal-
ments fall due each month.
THE OLD CEDAR CHEST
An Old Bush Song
Oh, the shearers all are quarrellin’,
They’ve cut the sheep to mutton,
They’re fightin’ over Marilyn
Monroe and Betty Hutton;
They’re driftin’ to the cities
From north and south and west ;
Vm the only one who pities
My old cedar chest.
My old cedar chest! North, south,
east and west,
There’s no old bag so lovely as
my old cedar chest.
Where Betty’s barks and squealin’s
Are like a friendly puppy’s,
My old chest spares your feelin’s
And knows what shuttin’-up is;
Where Marilyn’s outstandin’
Does not submit to test
Of polishin’ and sandin’
Like my old cedar chest.
My old cedar chest! Best of all by
test!
There’s no old bag so lovely as my
old cedar chest.
True, they have four legs between ’em,
And to know ’em is to love ’em;
But I ask whoever’s seen ’em,
Can you screw ’em on and off ’em ?
Undraped there is no cutie
Like one-inch cedar, dressed ;
Of such grain- and figure-beauty
As my old cedar chest.
My old cedar chest! Dressed or
undressed,
There’s no old bag so lovely as
my old cedar chest!
N.S.W.
SWILLAM.


r PHE tape-recorder, which has become
. an asset in making a party go with a
swing, can be dangerous. At one “do”
recently it was hidden in the ladies’
powder-room. When it vyas replayed to
the mob the hostess was not at all pleased
to hear one of her guests remark, “This
is a lousy party!”—and was the guest’s
face red! At another function one man’s
confidential remark to a friend that
“ ’s wife looks a bit of hot-stuff” was
broadcast. I understand it caused dis-
tress to -- and the party ended in a
brawl. Incidentally, recording of wed-
ding-services is very popular. One bride
I know has had a disk made from the
tape. “If Jack plays-up I’m going to
play it to him,” she told me, “and say
‘Listen —that’s what you promised.’ ”
“Doric.”
*%* *X* +>
‘Wusslean”: Argument took, place in
a Northcote (Vic.) court‘over distance
to the scene in question, witness having
stated that the spot was only a stone’s-
throw from his home. Under examina-
tion by a police-sergeant, who knew the
locality, witness admitted that the actual
distance was a mile and a half. Said the
“Good old Wallace—here he comes in the dinghy .”
sergeant: “It must have been an estate-
agent who threw the stone.”
❖ ♦> ***
“Bubba”: “Criticuss” (B. 27/4/’55) is
out-of-date. When he died, aged three,
Adranian Stiff was recognised by all
European critics as a dodderer in decline.
The 1954 Berlin show by Adolf Splutch,
one-year-and-ten-months, had already
surpassed anything done by Stiff in de-
pravity of line and bitterness of mood.
Still greater painting is expected of Bubba
Splutch if he can be taken off the bottle.
Kilmuchgiwiff and other Australian
Stilfians may just as well go comjmercial
and imitate Snugglepot and Cuddlepie.
Only Adolf Splutch matters —he is the
only one to be like. As with all “Criti-
cuss’s” discoveries, Kilmuchgiwiff is an
old crock of 23. “Criticuss” sounds at
least 28. How can the child-mind of the
artist be valued except by the child-
critic? My age is seven-years-and-three-
months and my recreations are peeping
and blowflies.
“Jez”: Back in 1925, I, too,
like “C.A.L.’s” classmates (B. 13/4/’55),
had a noble excuse for being
late for school. I had to cross
the Jubilee Bridge at Southport, on
Queensland’s “Gold Coast.” In those
days the bridge had a centre-span which,
operated by one-man-power rolling a
huge spool of steel cable, opened once a
fortnight to admit the paddle-steamer
Maid of Sker, plying between Brisbane
and Southport. I invariably declined
Charlie Cronk’s invitation to step across
before he began opening the bridge. This
fascinating performance took half an
hour, and on such occasions I reached
school late, but armed with an excuse
which was the envy of all my classmates:
“Please, sir, I had to wait for the Maid o’
Sker.”
❖, ❖ ❖
“Kaymara”: Speaking of television.
A chap named Vigil, over in the U.S.,
a very keen television-viewer, lay down
in bed and switched-on. Forgetting,
despite his name, the old adage about the
price of liberty, he dozed off while
watching; and on waking found that the
set, plus his bedspread, had been stolen.
Missing his television-set in particular,
he’ll probably be a lonely Vigil now.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Zorok”: An Academy of Casanovas
is proposed. Presumably, as with other
academies, candidates will be expected to
‘be completely orthodox in technique.
Membership may be limited, like the 40
of the French Academy of Art; with the
intense rivalry for admission then result-
ing, lady-killing records (now held by
Tommy Manville, Porfirio Rubirosa, etc.)
will probably be smashed. So that, if
posthumous entries are considered,
Cellini or Casanova himself may be
deemed well below standard, and
knocked back. To be accorded Royal
blessing, the Academy will, of course,
have to await the return of the Merry
Monarch or Henry VIII.
❖ ❖
“E. &0. E.”: A resident in the small
district of Nowhere Else in north-west
Tasmania applied to have the name
changed, but the Kentish council, with
the tourist-trade in mind, replied “Nothing
Doing.”
❖ ❖ +X+
“Burna”: The Cremming case, wherein
a truck-driver was fined (his union get-
ting half the cash) for working during his
annual leave, takes me back to the dark
days of World War 11. The Japs were
well bn the run, and Australia just about
out of the war, but the R.A.A.F. opera-
tional bases were still being maintained
in southern States in case of invasion
from the Antarctic. At Coffs Harbor
(N.S.W.) with nothing to do and farmers
crying out for labor, some airmen were
spending their days-off earning pocket-
money in useful employment. Then
Eastern Command heard about it and
issued a masterpiece in Routine Orders
to the effect that men were given time-off
for recreation and were not to seek out-
side employment, etc. It would be
interesting to know if officers of the
Transport Union are ex-Gentlemen. Or
would it be that officers of Eastern Com-
mand were ex-Transport Union?
* ♦> ►>
“Kaymara”: A two-tailed ha’penny
lately tumed-up in Perth, and it proved
to be genuine, not a forgery—minted at
Perth’s Royal Mint in 1946. The chap
who discovered its duplicity (it must
have been handled by hundreds who
“ She'll do anything to attract attention .”
didn’t wake-up) hopes to sell it for “a
small fortune” ; he claims a similar two-
tailed ha’penny fetched £3500. Why? I
can understand a fabulous sum being
paid for a two-tailed (or -headed) penny;
but do they ever spin ha'pennies at any of
the “schools”?
£* *£♦
“Keima”: A liquor-store owner at
Burbank (California) was held-up. Shown
the meagre takings in the till, the robber-
sheathed his gun and slunk away, first
murmuring words of sympathy and
solace. The really amazing part of the
story, though, is that a hard-liquor re-
tailer should be hard-up.
ijjt
“Baksac”: Sydney’s police have
declared a timely blitz on motorists who
fail to give correct signals, with special
attention to the menace who seems to
think the roof will blow off his car if
he doesn’t drive with his right hand
holding it on. But incorrect signals are
not always the product of
carelessness. A New Aus-
tralian motor - cyclist who
passes me at an intersection
every morning never fails to
give a perfect right-hand-turn
signal. Pity that he always
turns left. Just after World
War II many ex-Army drivers
signalled left-hand turns by
flapping the right hand up
and down three or four times.
The Law did not encourage
the idea, and I thought it had
died out, until recently I saw
a motorist go through a
similar action after complet-
ing a left-hand turn. My
surmise was well off the beam
—he was shaking accumu-
lated spittle out of his pipe.
❖ ❖ *l*
“Nimro d”: Westralian
Governor Sir Charles Gaird-
ner (B. 6/4/’55) was also
surprised when he offered a
holiday to the children of
Wittenoom Gorge. Half-a-
dozen voices did accept,
though a little uncertainly ; the rest were
silent. But keenness on school was not
the reason this time. Most of the kids
were New 'Australian and were a bit
wary of this new “gauleiter.” The offer
of a spielfest would have been better
understood.
* ❖ ♦>
“A.J.S.”: Some time back a nurse in
a country hospital in Western Australia
accidentally burnt a lottery-ticket before
the drawing. The ticket won a couple
of pounds, and as her name and address
were on the butt she got the money.
Later, she burned another lottery-
ticket by accident, and next day got a
telegram to say the ticket had won £6OOO.
That was only a ss. ticket; but to sug-
gestions that she should commit a little
arson on a really big ticket, she replies
that you can’t be lucky every time.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: The report that the State
of Connecticut (U.S.A.) has found- it
necessary to pass laws imposing fines
and imprisonment on people who throw
out old refrigerators with the doors still
on sheds an interesting light on a
mechanical menace to safety. The legis-
lation was introduced because children
have been suffocated when they clam-
bered into old refrigerators on rubbish-
dumps and the doors closed on them,
stifling the victims’ cries and shutting out
all air. The disease of prosperity is, so
far as I know, peculiar to the U.S. Less
advanced countries will have to wait for
it, as we wait for television.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Nakhoda”: The Mrs. O’Dea who
named her daughter Dawn (B. 6/4/’55)
recalls the Mr. Day who married a Miss
Weeks in Colombo. A local journal came
out with this poetic tribute to the event:
One Week the less, one Day the more;
But Time need not complain:
There’ll soon be little Days enough
; To make a Week again.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Black-Out”: Peter Bladen is right,
“Tangreen” (B. 13/4/’55), in giving the
meaning of “Lincoln” as “a deep pool.”
“Lin,” “lyn” and “lynn” all mean “deep
pool” in the Celtic. Other names are
Dublin, meaning “black pool,” Roslin,
“promontory over the pool,” and Mauch-
lin, the plain by or near the “pool,” to
mention a few.
A. H. Chisholm: Peter Bladen got
somewhat off the rails in stating in his
“Lazy Walkabout” (B. 13/4/’55) that C.
J. Dennis lost his mother during his in-
fancy. Actually Den was 14 when his
mother died. It is also a trifle lopsided
to concentrate on Den’s birthplace,
Auburn, in any discussion of his youth,
for in fact he left that village at the age
of about five. Subsequently the family
lived at Gladstone (where C. J. attended
school) and Laura, and both before and
after his mother’s death the future
“laureate of the larrikin” spent much time
with his prim maiden aunts, Mary Ann
and Sarah Tobin (“Pansy” and “Butter-
cup” to the locals) in the village of Min-
taro. Peter Bladen is further askew in
saying that Den’s books have sold “mil-
lions of copies” and that none can now
be obtained. Certainly The Bloke
and Ginger Mick, in particular,
scored very well —the first doing
50,000 in its first nine months and
the other 42,000 in its first six months —
but those and later figures fell rather short
of “millions.” A comprehensive selec-
tion from the whole of the books
was published in 1950 and is still readily
obtainable. As the editor of that
volutae, I had doubts as to how
present-day readers would react to
the somewhat dated background and
slanguage of The Bloke and Ginger, but
in fact the selected edition has already run
into four impressions.
HOSTS
Once, intolerant, I’d condemn,
Out of hand, the chappie who’d
Bumped-off one of his fellow-men,
Though goaded to it. My attitude
Has changed since then. Why all the fuss ?
I ask. It ought to be a right.
I’d like to blast with blunderbuss
The host who next day greets you thus:
“Did you get home all right last night ?”
Perhaps he feared (and needed to
Be reassured upon the point)
A building may have fallen on you
Soon after you had left his joint;
You might have fallen victim to
A crocodile or something on
Your long two-suburb journey. You
Are in one piece for him to view,
And certainly not woebegone.
Another kind of host there is
Who should be painlessly destroyed:
He’ll talk about those kids of his
All night; of mercy quite devoid.
And what of him who heartlessly
Traps you—they never can get HIM in —
Into a solo game — you’ll see,
Too late, the school you’re with is three
Post-morteming, ear-bashing wimmen ?
The one, though, whose convulsive end
With deepest pleasure I would view
Is he who simply loves to blend
Strange drinks —and tries ’em out on
you.
Revolting mixtures such as rum
And creme de menthe laced with some
gin
You trustingly up-end. Quite numb
Your throttle quickly will become —
And as you gasp for air he’ll grin!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


si i a id $
0009
N! da ay
e . w *rsti> eNolH
p hoSPITAL
BRAN DY
PERSONAL ITEMS
The thousands who’ve known that
transplanted. Scot William Innes during
his 30-odd years with N.S.W. Royal
Agricultural Society as chief-clerk and
then deputy-registrar have mostly called
him “Wally” and sometimes “Bill,” his
unassuming personality having that sort
of attractiveness. Not many have known
that Bill brought M.A. and B.Sc. from
Edinburgh University when he came,
though occasionally a quotation revealed
a mind not entirely trampled under the
hooves of cattle, horses, sheep, pigs, Per-
sian cats, goats and Australorps in the
R.A.S. routine. Anyhow, Bill has left
the R.A.S., and will now be found at
Retford Park, the Hordern stud, at
Bowral (N.S.W.), where he’s helping
young Mr. Sam keep things going.
0 o
Sailor at the Millions Club:
“Forty years at sea,” Cyril Edward Pollitt
(herewith), master of the Iberia, told a (Sydney)
Millions Club audience, “might be summed-up
as ‘forty years of not being found out.’ ”
Joke. But, of course, it can be interpreted
two ways: underneath the after-luncheon
pleasantry a hint, at least, of Conrad’s concep-
tion of the sea as a test of character.
The test, at any rate, has had variety: at
one end the training-ship Worcester (with,
appropriately enough, Conrad’s son as a ship-
mate); at the other the P. & O. Iberia, 29,614
tons, radar, stabilising fins (to reduce rdlling)
and the like; captain’s table. In between, two
SALT
World Wars, sundry craft, and npany ports.
A bit hard, as the captain remarked, to
telescope 40 years into a few minutes of words.
But a few scenes vivid enough to rouse an
appetite for more: Turkish ladies bathing off
Constantinople in the early ’twenties; Chinese
heads rolling in the dust outside Shanghai
(defended by British troops against Chiang-
kai-shek) in 1927; doctoring crews at sea; a
lonely strip stuck out in the middle of a harbor
during the North African invasion; the first
New Zealand troops to the Middle East march-
ing ashore at Suez to the rousing refrain of a
scandalous song.
To mention a few. But the skeletal facts
have their own interest. From windjammer
Worcester to H.M.S. Dreadnought in War I,
then destroyers. Joined P. & O. 1919, first
ship Nagoya. Saw Australia first in 1920, as
officer of the Japan, plying between Australia,
Japan, China and India. First-officer of
Strathaird in War 11, during which Strathaird
carried mainly troops, on a sort of expanding
scale —they could always fit in a few more
thousand. That first N.Z. contingent; the first
Americans for Europe after Pearl Harbor
(landed at Belfast); and odd cargoes, such as
the unfortunate human one from British
Honduras, landed at Glasgow in the middle of
winter.
00
Oscar Negus, of Perth, who took silk
two years ago, has gathered other things
in his time. He was one of the Westralian
eight that won the King’s Cup in Tas-
mania in 1927 ; as an angler he has fished
along the Westralian coast from the
North-west to the Bight; his 27 years as
a golfer lately culminated in his election
as president of the W.A. Golf Associa-
tion ; and as a new, but by no means raw,
recruit to bowling, he recently played
with the winning Mt. Lawley pennant-
team.
John Wand, Bishop of London Oust
retired), began his ecclesiastical career
in a humble way at Newcastle-on-Tyne,
and from there transferred to a curacy
in Lancashire. After War I he was
chaplain in the R.A.F. for a time, then
his scholarship and ability as a preacher
took him, as fellow and dean, to Oriel
College, Oxford —the college from which
Cecil Rhodes graduated—and made him
Oxford lecturer in Church History. In
his nine years (from 1934) as Archbishop
of Brisbane and Metropolitan of Queens-
land, he made himself an influence in
public affairs in the northern diocese,
largely through his gift of tolerance and
his knowledge of men. He has written
standard histories of the early and
modern church, some 20 works in all. A
little over 70.
• •
Home with a Harvard (U.S.) Doctorate
in Commercial Science, Westralian
Harold F. Craig, earlier vice-president of
the Commonwealth Institute of Chartered
Accountants. In the U.S. he probed into
the growing use of electronic account-
ing-machines. His book on the subject
has been published by the Harvard
research-division.
• 0
“F. Mod.”: When Arthur Stephen
McDonald passed on in Sydney, Aus-
tralian radio lost an engineer a-s well
known as the A.W.A. tower. In his
time technical-head of A.W.A., chief-
engineer of the Overseas Telecommunica-
tions Commission, vice-president of the
American Institution of Radio Engineers,
and commodore of the Royal Sydney
Yacht Club, A.S. was an engineer of the
pioneer days, starting with the radio-
branch of the l9ll. He trans-
ferred to the Naval Radio Service in
1915, and went to A.W.A. in 1922.
There, with post-War I shortwave
technique developing rapidly, he laid the
groundwork for the Beam telegraphy-
and telephony-system in which A.W.A.
has always been leader. In the early
days of facsimile tests between Australia
and England pictures transmitted from
Rugby were received in Australia under
severe static conditions. After a request
from this end as to just who was the
subject of one picture, the English
operator said: “That is his Majesty the
King.” Mac’s reply that it “looked like
the Rajah of Bong” plunged Rugby into
a hurt silence. Some solid “firsts” can
be noted —he built the first radio-station
in Australia for sending to ships at sea ;
first surveyed Willis Island as a site for a
radio- and met.-station to give cyclone-
warnings; was first chief-engineer of
O.T.C. Sixty-four at the end.
# 0
First Australian to get a TV diploma?
Ray Newell, of Melbourne, has just
received his degree from the American
Telecasting Corporation, Hollywood. He
will go to England and Western Europe
for further study.
0 0
General Sir Gerald lempler in 1952
was G.O.C. Eastern Command; he
shifted to another Eastern Command,
the Malayan High Commissionership;
another shift is now in the offing—Chief
of the Imperial General Staff, the pro-
fessional head of the British Army. He
directed the military government of the
British 21st Army Group in Germany,
post-War 11, and directed Military
Intelligence after that. Commanding the
Second Corps in the War II Mediter-
ranean (then, at 44, youngest lieutenant-
general in the British Army), he’d already
packed his kitbag with experience rang-
ing from the Kaiser’s show, north-west
Persia and Mesopotamia, and operations
in Palestine in 1936, which brought him
D.S.O. and Bar. A Sandhurst man, son
of a colonel.
“Melbn”: Came over from Sydney
for The March in Melbourne, Charlie
Werner, who was the wounded soldier
on the donkey when Simpson was killed
on Gallipoli in 1915. He believes him-
self to be the last man to have been
carried to safety by Simpson, and he
stood in silent tribute at the foot of
Simpson’s statue in the shadow of the
Shrine of Remembrance. Simpson,
incidentally, was not Simpson at all: he
was John Simpson Kirkpatrick, a
22-year-old Englishman, who enlisted as
Private Simpson with the Third Field
Ambulance, A.A.M.C. He found his
donkey grazing in a gully, and with it
brought wounded from the front-line for
three weeks, till he was shot through the
heart on the morning of May 19.
• •
Case of one Smith succeeding another
when Frank Carlton Smith was appointed
Westralian Under-Secretary for Lands;
his predecessor, H. E. Smith, has gone up
to the Public Service Commissionership.
Westralian born, the new U.-S. joined the
State service as a messenger in the Lands
Department in 1914.
• •
On Sydney furlough in 1910 after his
first two years in the Solomons, Frederick
Bruce Godson (herewith) remembers
drifting into the old Bulletin office to
pay his subscription, vainly button-
holing abstracted, shirj-sleeved journalis-
tic gentlemen before gaining the mild
interest of a very small office-boy, and
departing with his receipt and the im-
pression that when it came to giving ’em
money newspaper-offices were strange
places indeed. Schooled at The King’s,
Parramatta, he jackerooed in outback
N.S.W. before hearing the call of the
Islands —at £lO a month from Lever’s
Pacific Plantations, with fare refunded
after two years, less an annual fiver poll-
tax for policing. In those days natives
of Malaita, with crabby dispositions in
no way softened by earlier tough re-
cruiters and traders, occasionally cut
coconut-plantation managers up into
little pieces.
Joining the old British New Guinea
Development Co. in 1924, Godson took
over Itikinumu Rubber Estate, in the hills
above Port Moresby. Except for trips to
the mainland —one when the Japs pushed
down from Kokoda —and to Malaya, he
remained in that spot for the best part
of 30 years, seeing the place develop from
a primitive 700 acres to its present premier
position. A metalled road now winds up
from town to the bungalow he built from
timbers manhandled up the ranges by
RUBBER
carriers. One black memory is the
morning he found himself with-
out labor —Eddie Ward having can-
celled all labor-agreements in the hand-
over from Army to Civil Administration
after the war.
The hale old planter, retired now in
Sydney, retains many irons in Papuan
fires and returns there periodically to keep
an eye on his interests.
Herewith, Jeffery Love, at 37 appointed
manager of Millmaster Feeds Pty., Ltd.,
the newest of the subsidiaries of N. B.
Love, big Sydney flourmillers. Millmaster
manufactures speciality feeds for pretty
well every purpose: antibiotic rations for
poultry, dairy-meals and concentrates for
cows, pig-meals, fortified bran for all
stud-stock, feeds for the rats, mice and
FLOUR
guinea-pigs used in virus and polio-
research at Prince Henry Hospital.
The new manager’s milling began with
five years on the road, selling his Dad’s
flour after World War 11. He got into
Hitler’s mill early—straight into the
R.A.A.F. from The King’s, Parramatta,
navigator, charting the aerial courses of
the first Australian-built Mosquito to go
into acliOD. Operating from Darwin, he
flew over the Philippines, Java, New
Guinea and Timor, at something above
30,000/t., the Mossies’ telescopic camera
recording ail-strips, troop-assemblies,
gun-emplacements and suchlike. He can
claim another “first”—first time a Mos-
quito aircraft had flown 1000 miles on
one engine. Over Sourabaya, glycol leak,
engine spluttering to a stop. They just
made it in over the coast at Broome. De
Havilland experts reckoned it was a
miracle.
His father, Nigel Love, managing-
director of the three Love companies, also
knows a little of matters aerial. Among
the many valuable things he’s done for
aviation development (apart from 200
hours over enemy fines in War I), are his
War II job (wing-commander) of putting
thousands of Air Training Corps lads
through a preliminary course of instruc-
tion for the -R.A.A.F., and, earlier, his
selection of the site of Kingsford Smith
airport at Mascot, Sydney.
- • ' •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at .65, Charles M. Lilley, Old
Digger, and one of Brisbane’s best-kncnyn
surgeons and diagnosticians. He had more
than 30 years surgically part-timing with Bns-
bane General Hospital. A crack _ rifle-shot
when younger, he was in the team which twice
won the Empire Shooting Match. His
recreation was getting round among his poorer
patients.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 89, Harry Frederick
Nicoll, whose stud of thoroughbred trotters at
Durbar Lodge is widely known, particularly tne
progeny of St. Swithin and Wrack. A native
of Stratford, Essex, he landed in New Zealand
in 1886, and shortly afterwards branched into
frozen-meat export and fanning, specialising in
Shropshire sheep and trotters. For a 9 u 4F~ r
of a century he was president of the NX.
Trotting Conference.
In Sydney, Robert Greig, who represented
Ryde and later Drummoyne for many years
in the State Assembly, leaving politics in 1947.
Other interests included membership of tne
N.S.W. Library Board, Taronga Park Trust,
and the Royal Australian Historical Society.
In Brisbane, at 77, John Coffey, a graduate
of the Royal College of Physicians in Edin-
burgh, and for years Director-General or
Health in Queensland. Born in the Victorian
Wimmera, he practised for a time m Dublin,
and in War I served as a medico in the British
Army. He had been in Brisbape since 1922,
serving as Public Health Commissioner and
Inspector of Mental Hospitals before reaching
the top post.


(sH A UOUPAy /{/SLL, /£>U MUST S££ ALU
£AN OF THE COUNKfiy WHILE yOu%£ WZ&
w
fiou t Uttzg A LOVZLy View -—lf
IT CaJASNT F6>R rue £n\ok£
Aw THAT s TUZ mid 3PAP
cv£R fHEZB, &BHIHP Those rxees
- —'QNLy you CANT See Its /y
$H } VO LOOK AT TH£ yoo CHASHO THB TKA/M .
//
-—/\np th£ fumy urn? f^ves<r.
AHP THSRSS XUS 6f?ic«.WO?Ks — OH.
/ f
you misssp rr'
* v'
you -haV£ Ivho kn£ia>£ Thß
PLACB Xo BXfUAIN THISIOS —'— you CAM
//
CONDUCTED TOUR


ABORIGINALITIES
A CCORDING to a report a Sydney
writer D’Arcy Niland has sold
the film-rights of a novel entitled
Shiralee, which, according to Sydney
“Sun-Herald,” tells the story of
an “Australian who is deserted
by his wife and takes to the track with
his four-year-old daughter and his swag
or ‘shiralee.’ ” Now, I don’t want to
start anything, nor to list the long string
of names I’ve heard for a swag in my
time, but I do want to say I never heard
the blessed word before and want to know
if anyone else has, where and when, and
what’s its derivation? It sounds too
dashed Irish to be fair-dinkum Australian.
—“Old-timer.”
* * * *
“Keeper”: A tree in Queensland marked
by Ludwig Leichhardt on his ill-fated
1884 expedition is threatened with extinc-
tion. The tree —a coolibah, at the junc-
tion of the rivers three miles north of
Comet and 140 miles west of Rockhamp-
ton —has been undermined by floods and
attacked by white-ants. Fallen branches
are also making it a bushfire-risk. Sug-
gestions have been made that the
explorer’s initials and the word “Dig”
be cut out and preserved in the Queens-
land Museum in Brisbane.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The mantis-hatching
was under way. From tiny hples bored
in the shell of their parchment-textured,
igloo-like birthplace, anchored to the
choko-treflis, the tiny putty-colored mantis
babies were coming out. They hung in
tangled-chain formations of a dozen or
more; in twos or threes; here and there
an odd single. Finding their feet on leaf
or branch, they separated and scampered
uncertainly, bright, pert little gnomes,
maybe a bit unsure of the future. And,
like a huge effigy in green, Ma (or was it
Pa?) stood over the nest on long legs,
guardian of one more miracle of insect-
birth.
* * * *
“Dicky”: When grasshoppers invaded
our garden I attacked with spray and
stirrup-pump, and birds arrived in droves
to collect the still-kicking corpses from
under the roses and shrubs. Magpies,
pee-wees, willy-wagtails and kookaburras
took small notice of me as I moved about,
but the bower-birds preferred to dine
alone in shady seclusion under the weep-
ing-willow. I watched them through field-
glasses. With a delicate nicety they
rejected the big brown ’hoppers in favor
of the bright-green ones. Chance, of does
the bower-bird’s color-conscious mind
regulate his eating-habits as well as the
decor for his bower?
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Villefair”: Despite the rigid armor
he wears, the lobster is able to bend the
lower part of his body in a complete
“U.” The -hinge-system which permits
the movement is worth inspection. There
are six joints in the movable portion,
each a cylinder about an inch and a half
wide; at the bottom all six hinge to-
gether and partly fit into one another.
At the top the sections can open with
a telescoping action which permits a large
arc to be described ; yet, open or shut,
the segments fit over one another with a
perfection that man’s most precise
machinery could not better. Nature, how-
ever, goes even further. To make abso-
lutely sure that a waterproof joint is ob-
tained she has fitted a slight ridge around
the termination of each section and, as
a final precaution, sealed the junction
internally with plastic cartilage. I nomin-
ate the job as Nature’s finest example of
applied mechanics.
* * * *
“Morayda”: When a new billycan is
issued to a stock-camp in Centralia the
first ceremony of its initiation is the dis-
carding of its lid —I have never seen a
lid used on one thereabouts. The widely-
used type comes in graded sizes, which
saves space when packing, as they fit one
inside the other. The shape is half-round,
the flat side to fit snugly against a horse’s
back when pack-bags are used.
* * * *
“Zebu”: I have heard “A.J.S.’s” “new
one,” “By the Hokey Fly!” (B. 30/3/’55),
extensively used by one highly-respected
old-timer—Jack Riley, head-stockman,
outstanding cattleman, on Kamilaroi,
nor’-west Queensland, 1905-1915. Jack
Riley was seldom heard to swear. How-
ever, When very much put out he would
“Can’t you blokes discuss anything but flying?”
go as far as “By the Hokey Fly and
Bloody Curse to me.” Old-timers, Arthur
Lanski, Larry Kenny, Jim Burke, Tommy
Cannon —surely this expression revives
old memories! “By the Hokey Fly!” is
heard at the present time in the Molloy
district, north-eastern Queensland, and is
traceable back to Jack Riley.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Some swimmers at Lear-
month (W.A.) were stung by sea-
creatures they didn’t see, and within
seconds were in excruciating pain, felt a
stiffening of the muscles, and were short
of breath. One had to lie given oxygen.
Jellyfish, obviously, but what kind?
“ No —We don't Want to hear you play your mouth-organ."
There are many types all capable of
stinging—that’s how they catch their
food—but in some forms the sting is
noticeably toxic only to their natural
prey. Still, there are at least five species,
possibly more, which can seriously affect
humans. Physalia pelagica (Portuguese
map-o’-war) is probably the best known
and is one of the'most dangerous, but
there are other smaller forms which may
be more deadly still and which are
probably responsible for many cases of
stings where nothing is seen in the
vicinity. They all act on much the same
principle. Those long tentacles which
trail behind the float aren’t just part of
the animal; they’re whole colonies of
minute animals, called polyps, which are
inseparably banded together and working
in complete harmony. Some of those
polyps form rows of stinging-cells, each
equipped with a trigger-mechanism in
the form of a sensitive hair. When that’s
touched the cell contracts and applies
pressure to the sting, which is shdt out
at the end of a long lasso. After the
sting pierces the victim’s flesh, poison is
conveyed into the wound through the
lasso, which is hollow. That poison
instantly paralyses the fish’s natural prey,
and it has killed humans.
* * * *
“Bellfield”: Franz, the New Australian
laborer, approached me with sorrow in
his eyes, “Dippy, that word,” he asked,
“does it not mean there is not the
sanity?” I told him I’d never heard it
in any other sense. “Ah, such pitiful-
ness,” he mourned. “And Cheeka* so
much he think of his baby, yah.” Gradu-
ally I pieced the story together. Chicker,
it appeared, had told Harry that his wife
was taking the baby to the doctor’s for
treatment because it had gone insane. It
was a difficult subject to broach, but
diffidently I asked Chicker how his young
bloke was doing these days. “Ball of
muscle,” Chick announced cheerily.
“Missus is taking him to the quack’s to
have his ‘dippy’ injections today.”
* * *
“Sackfair”: The spider’s web was a
big one—fully two-feet-six in diameter
without including the “guy-ropes”—
but a thing so delicate surely could not
hold a fully-grown grasshopper of the
large, green variety. The spider, a black
ball huddled-up in a far corner, might
have been dead for all the interest he
showed. Then the ’hopper got one leg
free. The web vibrated. Instantly the
spider came to life. Lightly, hand over
hand, in a manner that gave me the ridicu-
lous impression of a square-dancer pass-
ing from one partner to the next, the
creature approached its victim. I expected
to see a leap, a murderous attack. But
no. Swiftly the “hands” wove in and out.
In 10 seconds the spider was on its way
back to the comer and the ’hopper was
tied-up as neatly as a Christmas parcel,
fully another yard of web-material having
been spun-out for the job.
* ■* * *
“Honest Frank”: The Queensland
country woolscour is vanishing. Thirty
years ago there were dozens in the sheep-
lands, working double-shifts nearly all the
year. An odd one is left, perhaps with
electricity for power and oil-burners for
heating water ; but graziers secure such
high prices for their wool in the grease
that they give little thou'ght to any extra
financial return from local scouring.
Therefore the paradoxical situation exists
today that the scours, in the heart of the
woolgrowing areas, have shut down for
one reason only—no wool to scour.
* * * *
“H.E.R.”: Chiacked on why he never
seemed to go out and enjoy himself,
he explained: “Listen, mate. I’m
not like you chaps trying to scratch
more and more out of your lives. I’ve
had a bit of everything I wanted. I’ve seen
a Melbourne Cup, a Test-match, and I’ve
read Love Me, Sailor. And once I got
so chockful of beer and whisky drinking
with a crowd that I thought everybody
else was stone sober.”
DAYS LIKE TODAY
A little while longer! the grasshopper sang;
Seed-pods and silver-beards rippled and rang;
The very airs shook to his passionate cry
Under that uncaring autumnal sky,
Though the evenings draw in and the breeze of
the morning,
A blade with an edge to it, gives me fair
warning.
Stay a while, Summer, nor bid the days pass.
Leave me a season to sing in the grass.
Lord of the universe, grant me, I pray
One little day longer—just one little day.
Madly the honey-bee buzzed in the tall
White Easter daisies against the brick wall,
Scrabbled and scrambled and fumbled and fell
Out of the door of a red-fuschia bell;
With pollen to gather and honey to seek,
Crammed in an hour the work of a week;
Blundered and floundered and buzzed as he
flew.
Oh, sunlight and summertime, wait for me
too;
Grant me, high heaven, before my wings fray,
One little day longer—just one little day.
Nature, regardless of praise or protest,
Lauds, alleluias, or frantic requests,
Drowses in somnolent warmth and content,
All rivalries over and all passion spent.
B'ut many a mortal still cries to the moon
Oh, surely, it cannot be ended so soon . . .
Here’s one old lover of days like today
At one with the insects, as foolish as they;
Deep in the heart whispers, Lord, I implore
One more little season—one little life more.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
RILLA
1 FIRST met Rilla—short for Gorilla-
in World War I, a huge hairy hunk
of a man who collected the M.M. for
outing a Boche machine-gun crew prac-
tically with his bare hands. That aston-
ished none of us; it was just a rather
more spectacular sample of his normal
efforts.
Came across him again in the late
’twenties in a shearing-shed and watched
him nonchalantly barbering crossbred
wethers. Easy as pie.
Quite lost sight of him then until a
couple of ago. This big fellow
hoisting drums of power-kero, into a
ute with one finger was Rilla all right—
a bit grey in the hair, a bit scrawny
around the neck, but still much the same
size.
He invited me out to his place. He
had about 400 acres of nice wheat-
country, and a solid old pise house that
had been well looked after.
I knocked, and he came to the door
himself. It was queer to see Rilla wear-
ing glasses.
% “Gripes,” he said, “it’s you. I’d forgot.
Come on in and meet the missus.”
The missus was a nugget, and a fair
bit younger than Rilla.
“And here’s Dottie, Mum’s offsider,
he said. “My big bloke Bill’s gone into
town, and the other kids’re out the back
somewhere. Wait till I shift this stuff
off the table, then we can have a yarn.
I glanced at “this stuff,” and asked,
“Kids collecting stamps, Rilla?”
“Strewth, no,” he said. “They reckon
I’m nuts. I’m the philatelist here, been
collecting since I was a nipper.”
Rilla, wearing glasses, and spending his
evenings peering at postage-stamps. I
could never even have dreamed it.
ICINIT.


Old lush songs
As sung by Mrs. I. Popplewell, Dean-lane, Darlington (N.S.W.). Tune
recorded by John Meredith and Nancy Keesing in February, f 954. This tune
is typical of those derived from the Irish street-ballad, and is also used by Mrs.
Popplewell for “Rise Up Now, William Riley,” a song which was very popular
throughout the bush during the latter part of last century.
WE called him Smoke-box. He was
born and orphaned under the coal-
stage by some sort of kelpie-bitch and
grew up to know no other world than
the railways. He’d chase the trucks with
the shunters till he was tired, then finish
the shift on the pilot-engine, his head
poked out the cab-window barking with
self-importance. Every Wednesday he
rostered himself on the branch-line and
had his crib packed by the crew. But
now Smoke-box is dead, victim of the
road-toll. He must have yielded to the
call that makes a dog what he is, and
wandered into the town. We guess the
idea of a moving vehicle not on a fixed
track confused him. We buried him out
by the distant-signal. A broken coupling
marks the spot. —“J.P.C.”
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The newly-completed
posh pub in the little-but-rich pastoral
town opened with a highly-rated immi-
grant chef. He soon left. Others came,
and went; they heard the magic words,
“the sheds,” and were happy to accept the
bigger dough. The contractors were
happy, too. The too-few local babblers,
drunk or sober, had made the most of
no opposition for a long, long time.
Now the Goddess of Chance disguised as
the new pub has settled that score!
* * * *
“Jas”: Mostly purple, with bright-red
beak and legs, the swamp-hen is a striking
bird. Though a good swimmer, it looks
at its best out of water —its walk is
stately and deliberate. Its dislike of being
hurried often leads to untimely death on
the highways. When swamp-hens estab-
lish themselves in a lagoon situated near
houses they become sufficiently tame to
line-up with domestic chooks for a hand-
out, though some householders don’t like
the leggy beauties, as they have a taste for
lettuce and other garden-stuff. Cayley
lists no fewer than eight names for this
aquatic fowl.
* * * *
“Multum in Parvo”: Am keen to find
out how 17 bullocks were yoked in a
team (B. 13/4//55). The arrangement
I recall was to yoke two abreast. There
aren’t any bullockies left in our district
to consult, and Professor Einstein is no
longer available to work out any intricate
computations.
“Mack”: It’s not often Unk White
can be caught out in an anachronism, but
he perpetrated one when he depicted the
old drunk asking Peter Bladen: “Anyone
try to knock you down?” (B. 6/4/’55).
Bladen recorded in the previous instal-
ment that he had dispensed with his
beard and given himself a cold by so
doing. Unk showed the Bladen fungus
as prolific as it had been in the early
walkings about.
* * * #
“L For”: Surely the greatest hard-luck
story emanating from the Easter racing-
carnival at Onkaparinga (S.A.) was that
of the vendor of toffee-apples. A swarm
of bees settled on his wares and stall
before the first race; they were still there
after the last.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: As an addendum to the
discussion here on shod bullocks, in
several of Scotland’s museums
there are horseshoes made in the
shape of a bullock-hoof —relics
of Border cattle-thieving. The
kilted savages north of the
Cheviots used to nail them on
their Galloway ponies before
riding south.. Rounding-up a
mob of some English farmer’s
cattle, they would drive them
erratically, letting the mob
spread out occasionally. To
anyone who looked at the tracks
the cattle would seem to have
moved north of their own
accord. I can’t make out why
Australian cattle-duffers never
used the dodge. There’s
nothing in the least difficult
about making a set of these
cloven-hoof horseshoes.
“Bellfield”: For the unusual in animal
friendships I nominate our baker’s horse
and the bakehouse cat. When Boxer is in
the yard Tabby will always be close at
hand ; in the stable the fummy is generally
purring contentedly—on Boxer’s back!
Lately Tabby produced her periodic new
family—under the manger. The baker,
a soft-hearted man, deciding it was
better to get the distasteful task over
before he had time to think about it and
renege, put the kittens in a bag, shoved
’em in a bucket of water, put a brick on
top, then fled from the horse-yard. A
few minutes later a clanging sound drew
his attention ; Boxer had knocked the
bucket over and was pulling the bag out
with his teeth. All right, all right, maybe
it does read like the sort of sugary stuff
“Come up for a second?”
they dish up for kids in the school
magazine during “Be Kind to Animals
Week.” But I’m not stressing the prad’s
motives; I’m merely stating the facts.
* * * *
“Baksac”: A mate of mine swears to
the efficacy of a dangling chain making
contact between road and car as a means
of dispersing static electricity and thus
removing the cause of car-sickness. On a
recent visit he drove 270 miles and not
one of his usually-susceptible family
suffered any symptoms. A question jas
to whether the cure might have been
partly psychological received a unani-
mous negative. After he returned home
a letter came to clinch the matter. Until
they were within 30 miles of home no-
body had shown any signs of sickness ;
then he and his daughter had gradually
succumbed to the usual symptoms. Inves-
tigation showed that the chain was miss-
ing: the sickness had begun from the
point where the contact with the road
had been broken. I haven t the heart
to write and tell him we found the
chain hanging on a loose end of wire
near our gate.
, » # *
“Bass”: When I was a kid I sometimes
had to pass, at night, a paddock where
there was a big dead The
sight of that tree terrified me, particularly
on a moonlight night when its stark-white
trunk and limbs seemed to personify the
daddy of all ghosts. I’d always been
secretly ashamed of my fear until I read
Archdeacon Wollaston’s journals written
back in 1841. Describing the forest
trees to some friends in England, this
keen old observer said: “A large white-
gum or tuart-tree which has died a natural
death is a most frightful object—the stem
and every branch perfectly white.”
Wollaston was a courageous man with a
sublime belief in Providence, yet appar-
ently the sight affected him much the
same as it did me.
FRANK GARDINER.
Oh, Frank Gardiner he is caught at last,
he lies in Sydney jail,
For wounding Sergeant Middleton and
robbing the Mudgee Mail,
For plundering of the gold escort, the
Carcoar mail also,
And it was for gold he made so bold and
not so long ago. '
His daring deeds surprised them all
throughout the Sydney land,
And on his friends he gave a call and
quickly raised a band ;
And fortune always favored him until
the time of late,
Until Ben Hall and Gilbert met with their
dreadful fate.
Farewell, adieu to outlawed Frank, he
was the poor man’s friend,
The Government has secured him, the
laws he did offend ;
He boldly stood his trial, and answered in
a breath,
“Do what you will, you can but kill; I
• have no fear of death.”
Day after day they remanded him,
escorted from the bar,
Fresh charges brought against him from
neighbors near and far,
And now it is all over, the sentenee they
have passed,
All sought to find a verdict, and “Guilty”
’twas at last.
O’Meally has surrendered, Ben Hall’s got
his death wound,
And as for Johnny Gilbert, near
Binalong was found,
He was all alone and lost his horse, three
troopers came in sight, v
And he fought the three most manfully ;
got slaughtered in the fight.
When lives you take, a warning boys, a
woman never trust, •
She will turn round, I will be bound,
Queen’s evidence the first;
He’s doing two-and-thirty years; he’s
doomed to serve the Crown,
And well may he say he cursed the day
he met with Mrs. Brown.
[This series of Old Bush Songs with Music will be continued each week.]
SNAKE v. GOANNA
A PITY “C.S.” (B. 13/4/’55) was not
A fortunate enough to witness the initial
overtures leading to the snake-goanna
fight he described. Did the snake first
■L,, nr th _ on 7 A nf i f or w hat
' 8
Homo sap. is probably the only animal
that will attack his own kind or any other
living thing just for the hell of it. Among
other creatures, which have not known
the advantages of civilisation, fighting
can be attributed, almost without
exception, to one of three fundamental
impulses—defence, mating and the quest
for tucker.- It is hardly conceivable that
a brown-snake would attack a big goanna
on any of these counts, so it would seem
that the initiative must have been with
the monitor.
Now, anyone who has handled, or is
familiar with, Australian snakes will
agree that undoubtedly the fastest of the
j tribe is the genus Demansia, to
w hi c h t he brown-snake belongs. The
only difference of opinion would be on
the actua i species which could claim the
spiee d-title. In my book it would be
between the copper-tailed whip-snake
(Demansia olivacea), the yellow-faced
whip ( D psa mmophis ) and the common
brown-snake (D. textilis). However, on
a warm summer morning, in a bright
patch of sunlight—the conditions “C.S.’
mentioned—there would be little to
choose between this trio of supercharged
serpents for all practical purposes, such
as being caught by a goanna.
“C.S.” seems to have really seen
sna ke and go. “in holts,” the only explana-
tion I can think of is that the lizard had
gastronomical designs on the snake. If
this were so, the snake was extremely
lucky to escape the lizard’s “mouth-grip,”
which must have been a most un-goanna-
like bite. A four-footer would be able
to sever a snake with one fair-dinkum
snap.
Another interesting point is that the
goanna twice pinned the brown-snake’s
head under its foot, considering the speed
of this snake on a warm day. The tiger,
copperhead and black-snake are what may
be termed “dignified” species, in that they
are calculating in their movements after
the first frenzy of excitement when caught.
When they strike it is with a deliberate
a im at their target. The brown-snake, on
the other hand, is a highly nervous and
creature. When y° u h ?ve ffim
by the tail yop ve really got a handful,
as he lashes and strikes at everything in
reach. And if I* were able to pin his
head with a forked stick once in twenty
attempts I would consider myse!lEm
Olympic standards. That
J 1 an extr y
to P™ him
All m all, this seems to be a most
unusual encounter.
A.H.


THE NATIONS PROGRESS
iz
■r
jf '
—Kg
THE BANK’S PART
In the development of our secondary industries
IT was the men of vision, courage and tenacity of purpose who
laid the foundations of our secondary industries. These men
realised that if our Nation was to progress; if our economy was
to be strong and sound, Australia must engage in the manufacture
of goods.
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited,
owned and staffed by Australians, is proud to have aided such
men in the early days—and of its part in aiding the subse-
quent growth and development of our industries.
To-day we offer the same efficient, helpful and friendly
service , through our Head Office and our wide network of
branches, to competent men engaged in industry.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which Is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jackson $
osuijjvay
•*. VPcVO. A
l«S 6R1%
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New YorS
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER'ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Loan-money Short
THE conversion part of the
March £239 million cash-
and-conversion loan fell short of
requirements by £lO million,
which means that part of the cash
subscriptions by the public of
£39.1 million will be called on
to make up the conversion
deficiency. Another £5 million
was provided by the Common-
wealth Government from
“counterpart funds.” But net
public raisings for the year
amount to only £9O million when
conversion failures totalling £32
million are taken into account.
This net figure is about £23
million less than was obtained
in the preceding year.
At the Loan Council meeting
jn June, 1954, approval was
given to borrowing programmes
for Commonwealth and State
Governments totalling £2OO
million. Pending the raising of
the loans the Commonwealth
offered to make advances to the
States for the first six months of
the financial year at the rate of
£lBO million a year. This partly
accounted for the steep rise in the
central bank’s holding of Gov-
ernment securities (including
Treasury-bills) between May,
1954, and January this year—
from £404 million to £475
million. In order to provide the
£2OO million of loan-money for
the year an unusual amount of
internal finance will need to be
provided. A probable Budget
surplus for 1954-55 may help the
situation.
The bond-market has appar-
ently been affected by the
glamorous interest-rates offered
by hire-finance cos. for what,
in terms of Government borrow-
ing, amount to short-term loans
—6 p.c. and 7 p.c., for example,
for four-five-year money. The
effect of these interest-rates on
other forms of security is bound
to spread.
Davis Gelatine Consolidated
One of the most interesting
floats in the offing is that to be
made by Davis Gelatine
(Sydney).
Davis Gelatine Consolidated,
Ltd., was formed in February
this year to consolidate all the
shareholdings in Davis Gelatine
(Australia) Pty., Ltd., together
with its various subsidiary and
associated companies. The
Davis organisation produces
gelatine, glue, neatsfoot oil,
tallow, etc.
The Davis business had its
beginnings in Maoriland in 1881,
and spread to Australia in 1917,
where it now has its headquarters,
with factories in Sydney and
Melbourne, as well as manufac-
turing subsidiaries in Christ-
church and Auckland (N.Z.),
and in South Africa at
Krugersdorp, near Johannesburg.
In each country the Davis
organisation meets full
gelatine - requirements. Other
subsidiaries with warehouses,
packing and office facilities have
been established in Canada and
the United Kingdom for more
than two decades, in addition to
various selling-agents in other
parts of the world.
Shareholders in Davis Gelatine
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd., have recently
sold their total shareholdings,
which controlled the whole of the
organisation, to Davis Gelatine
Consolidated for £1,200,000, and
ha&e all taken up shares in the
new holding co. to an equivalent
value. •
Capital of the proprietary
company is not yet revealed, but
“no founder’s or bonus, shares
i have been issued, nor is it
intended to issue any.”
Shortly a new issue of 300,000
ord. shares of £1 each will be
offered for public subscription
at par. This will make paid
capital £1,500,000. The wider
spread of shareholdings will
result in the co. becoming a
public company, and it is
intended to apply for Stock
Exchange listing.
Net tangible asset-value of the
shares, after the new £300,000
issue, and based on consolidated
balance-sheet values as at June
30, 1954, will be about £1 2s. lid.
a share. All the fixed assets are
in the books of the respective
companies at original cost, or
cost, less depreciation written-off
year by year.
It is thought by the directors
that dividends at the rate of
7 p.c. a year will be possible
after making, reasonable reserves.
Proceeds of the issue will be
used to provide additional work-
ing capital and to finance plant
expansion and improvements.
The issue has been under-
written firm by William Tilley
and Co. and J. and J. North,
members of Sydney Stock
Exchange.
Omati No. 1
L. Owen writes: Comments
of mine which have appeared
in The Bulletin have never
been in any way critical of the
drilling of Omati No. 1 (Papua),
except that I considered that ‘the
effort involved in the reopening
of the well below 13,740 ft.
might have been better spent in
other operations, particularly as
the near-by Omati No. 2 was
already drilling.
In the oil-game there is
always the hope that something
better lies just a few feet below
the bottom of the hole, and, in
this case, there was the added
incentive of regaining the record
for the deepest drilling in the
Southern Hemisphere. At
present this is held by Wapet’s
Rough Range No. 1 well at
14,602 ft.; Omati No. 1 was
stopped only 250 ft. short of this
depth.
It is all to the good, however,
that the economically-sound
decision that the testing of
the stratigraphical - column,
corresponding to 13,743 ft. and
“And here you have the exclusive press-button
ejector-seat”
below in Omati No. 1, can now
be much more efficiently under-
taken in Omati No. 2 and has
been taken with the courage
invariably exhibited by Oil
Search’s partners in their diffi-
cult and often disappointing
search for petroleum in Papua.
As is so often the case with
reference to Australian oil-
ventures, the reaction of the
Stock Exchange to this
entirely justified closing-down of
the Omati No. 1 well is difficult
to understand.
Australian Woollen Mills
Weak in last week’s share-
market were the shares of Aus-
tralian Woollen Mills, Ltd.
These sold as high as 365. 9d. in
1954 and up to 355. this year.
Last week they were down to
335., yielding 6 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The co. claims to be
as large as, if not larger than,
any other woollen mill in Aus-
tralia-; but its capital is con-
siderably lower than that of its
next competitor and its rates of
profit-earning higher. It appears
to have very considerable inner
strength in its assets, which have
been kept up-to-date and
efficient. On the marketing side,
too, the co. has a lively manage-
ment, and it has had some
success in consolidating its earn-
ing position with a view to
stabilising profits even during
periods of declining wool prices.
The recent past has not been
favorable to the woollen and
worsted industry as a whole, but
Australian Woollen Mills’ opera-
tions have been strikingly
profitable.
Henry Jones
To anyone with a little invest-
ment time at his disposal the
shares of Henry Jones Co-op.
look attractive at 485., which
compares with a highest price of
555. this year. (Highest in 1954
was 525. 3d., lowest 455.)
Though a 10 p.c. div. has been
the fashion for the past 14 years,
last term’s disclosed earnings of
the parent and subsidiaries was
equal to 35.3 p.c. on capital.
Reserves by this time should be
equal to £2 for every £1 of paid
capital. Last bonus-issue (one
for two) was in 1927. Conditions
in the jam and fruit-canning
trade at the moment are not the
best, but the co.’s factories are
spread throughout Australia,
New Zealand and South Africa,
and its ex-Australian income is
now about equal to its Aus-
tralian profits. The scrip at 48s.
gives an immediate yield of only
£4 3s. per cent., but attractions
as a holding proposition are
outstanding.
Ford Sherington Holdings
At June 30 last there remained
in Ford Sherington tax-free
reserves enough to pay another
17.6 p.c. on ord. capital. Of
that, 5 p.c. went out in an interim
distribution on April 22, and if
the final for 1954-55 is at the
same rate, the 1955-56 term will
see the end of the tax-free
reserves taken over from the
proprietary set-up. By that time
the benefit of new factories in
Perth and Brisbane should begin
to influence profits.
The co. makes Globite and
other brands of travel-goods of
high quality, and has its head-
quarters in Sydney, with factories
in every State and in South
Africa. It has a very comfortable
financial situation and a strong
earning position. Its 1953-54
consolidated earnings were equal
to 28.9 p.c. on ord. capital. If,
arter the tax-free reserves run
out, the div. is lifted to 15 p.c. (as,
on present earnings, it easily
could) the yield at last week’s
market of 9s. lid. for the ss.
shares would be 7.5 p.c. Net
tangible assets behind each ss.
share have a conservative book-
value of 14s. 2d.


URflmum
is the mineral in to-morrow’s
DEVELOPMENT and DEFENCE of Australia ... the spearhead to
every future plan for defence will centre around uranium. Caterpillar
Diesel Tractors are mining uranium jn our north at Rum Jungle, near
Darwin. The most-used equipment throughout the world to-day for this
type of work is CATERPILLAR.
Britain will spend £3OO million on building nuclear power stations for
commercial use. The plan is to have 12 in operation by 1965.
Our whole national development can be changed by nuclear power—
and Australia has the uranium to fuel the age.
All this, in addition to American progress in mastery of the atom, points
to coming achievements of incredible magnitude.
The rewards of success are assured. The opportunity of participating is
open to Australia’s public, by investment in Hastings Diesels Limited
current issue of New Ordinary Shares.
The following is an extract from the Company’s prospectus
“The principal franchises are:-
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO. of Peoria. U.S.A., owning CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY.
LTD., “Caterpillar" Tractors and Earth Moving Equipment for :
STATE of QUEENSLAND, NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA,
NEW GUINEA AND PAPUA, SOUTH-WEST PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DEERE AND COMPANY of Illinois, U.S.A. John Deere Agricultural Machinery for the same
territory.
BALDWIN-LIMA-HAMILTON CORPORATION of Lima, Ohio, U.S.A. Lima Cranes, Shovels and
Draglines for the whole of Australia."
"Hastings Diesels Financial History
Year ended 31st August, 1951
Year ended 31st August, 1952
Year ended 31st August, 1953
Year ended 31st August, 1954
Net Profit
£11,790
£48,779
£58,870
£111,398
Ordinary
Dividends
9.2%
39.0%
12.5%
12.5%
(FIGURES FROM AUDITORS’ REPORT)
This record of well-advised management and sound operation of valuable franchises
augurs well for the future development and profits of the Company.
Intending shareholders have this opportunity to participate in returns and dividends
from the expanded future operations of Hastings Diesels Ltd. with the increased
working capital.”
Applications for shares will be received only on one of the forms of application
referred to and endorsed upon the printed copies of the Prospectus available from
the registered office of the Company, William and Crown Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
The issue has been oversubscribed, but the Directors will accept an oversubscrip-
tion provided prompt application is made.
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Ltd.,
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please forward me a copy of prospectus re issue of 300,000 New Ordinary Shares.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE B-5
This is not an abridged prospectus and does not comply with the of Section 137 of the
Companies Act 1936 of N.S.W.
The Hunt for Oil
From L. Owen: When “Oil-
finding Technique” (B. 6/4/’55)
was being written, I was unaware
that arrangements to survey the
Canning Desert Basin (W.A.),
employing the sequence of opera-
tions largely on the lines of the
one criticised in that article, were
completed. The publication of
some details of the proposed
survey now give me the oppor-
tunity of making a more specific
analysis of the procedure to be
adopted and to point out where,
in my opinion, it falls into error.
The method adopted consists
essentially of a flying-magneto-
meter reconnaissance, the posi-
tion of the aircraft being checked
and controlled by reference to
ground markings (signals) 50
in all—the latitude and longitude
of which will be determined, as
accurately as possible, by two
survey-parties before the mag-
netometer readings are taken.
Ten thousand air-photographs,
which are part of a survey made
some time ago by the R.A.A.F.,
will be used in conjunction with
the magnetometric data.
It is stated that the informa-
tion thus obtained will allow
of the drafting of a formation-
contour map, - indicating the
thickness of the sedimentary
beds throughout the area sur-
veyed. It would appear, there-
fore, that the object of the survey
is to obtain some idea of the
depth of the buried surface of
the basement - complex under-
lying the area and of the form
of that surface. It is also stated
that, from this contour-map, it
will be possible to select parts
which will be of further interest
to ground-geologists and geo-
physicists.
In its proper place, the air-
borne magnetometer is a very
valuable aid to investigations of
regional geological structure,
and the present survey is to be
carried out by an organisation
with a very fine record both for
aerial surveys and —even more
importantly—for reliable inter-
pretation, but it should be re-
membered that thickness ’ and
even stratigraphical height are
factors only, and not complete
answers to oil-finding prospects.
Even approximately quanti-
tative interpretation of magneto-
metric (and of most other geo-
physical) data reveals only the
smoothed-out form of the par-
ticular physical interface which
the method is designed to
delineate, and requires, in itself,
a considerable and fairly de-
tailed knowledge of the physical
properties of the rocks forming
the sedimentary cover and base-
ment-complex of the area. The
next step is to translate the form
of the physical interface into
structure, and the knowledge
necessary for this —in areas still
geologically unsurveyed— can be
obtained only by ground parties
of geologists working under ex-
perienced guidance ; the inter-
pretation of structure from air-
photographs of areas even where
outcrops are clearly exposed and
fairly continuous can be funda-
mentally in error unless the in-
terpreter has intimate ground-
knowledge of at least one part
of the photographed area and
can use that knowledge as a
yardstick for extrapolation be-
yond the areas of his studies on
the ground.
In view of these facts —which
have been proved so often in
past operations—it is difficult to
understand why experienced oil-
field geologists are not to be
sent out with the astronomical
survey parties. Geologists, with
the relevant experience, would
be able to study the areas
surrounding the signal-stations
while these were being con-
structed and accurately posi-
tioned. The data thus gathered
would be invaluable to both
magnetometric and gravity geo-
physical interpreters.
The reason given for com-
mencing with geophysics and
(presumably) ending with field-
geology in the Canning Desert
Basin is the necessity for speed
and “the numerous obstacles
to ground-reconnaissance parties
attempting to penetrate its water-
less wastes.” Apparently it has
been forgotten that experience
in the hunt for oil (including that
in Australia) has long proved
the value of the policy of making
haste slowly. Apparently, also,
it has been' forgotten that oil-
geologists, long before aeroplanes
made contact and provisioning
a fairly simple matter, had taken
the examination of “waterless
wastes” all over the world as a
matter of routine. Although
the unconquered desert cannot
be described as providing the
comfort of fixed camps, I know
from contacts and personal ex-
perience that most geologists
(including myself) would prefer
working in desert than in rain-
forest.
Woolworths
Woolworths, Ltd., proposes to
open 19 new stores during the
current year. These include 11
in N. S. Wales, live in Victoria,
one in Queensland, one in W.A.,
and one in Canberra. In addi-
tion, 13 stores are being enlarged
or “relocated.” Arrangements
have been made to build 11
stores next year. Woolworths
at present operate about 180
stores, 10 of which were opened
in 1954. At June 30 last G. J.
Coles and Co., Woolworths’
biggest competitor, had 181
stores, with the number in-
creasing all the time.
Woolworths, Ltd., has a paid
capital of £4,559,356, all but
£275,000 of it in ord. shares of
ss. each. Last year it showed
24 p.c. on ords. and paid 15 p.c.
The ords. are at 18s. 9d., yielding
4 p.c. The same price, yield arid
profit-ratio apply to G. J. Coles
also.


Act now to protect YOUR ESTATE through the years ahead
* I a
:v;- v-
■ . V
m
&
rro
For your dependants’ sake you have a duty to appoint an
experienced Executor —such as the Union Trustee Company.
During nearly 70 years of administration of every class of
estate the Company has amassed a fund of experience such as
no one person could achieve in a lifetime. To pastoralists,
the expert services of the Company’s Pastoral Inspectors in
each of the three Eastern States is readily available —to provide
valuable “local” knowledge.
Union Trustee services are comprehensive, charges are
moderate. A senior officer will gladly explain these services
at a personal interview —or you may prefer to write for a
copy of the Company’s free booklet, “Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1883
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398 402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba,
Bockhampton and Cbarleville
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
"pROM both the individual and national
points of view it is difficult to over-
emphasise the importance of life assur-
ance as part of social and economic set-
up. Public recognition of the fact is
made obvious by the extraordinary post-
war growth of the figures of the big life
offices, of which the M.L.C. is one.
Over the last decade its stature has
increased in this way:
1944. 1956.
New business* .. ..£13,743,760 £58,278,627
Assurances in force .. 122,181,626 388,052,825
Annual income! .. 6,247,924 18,419,057
Total assets .. . . 42,526,934 111,094,404
* Ordinary and industrial combined. ! After deduct-
ing taxation and tax refunds, and excluding cur-
rency adjustments.
Expansion of population and inflation
apart, the two most important factors
behind the growth have been group
assurance connected with industrial super-
annuation and the life business associated
with the co.’s loans for home-building.
Together they account for a large slice of
the new business now being put on the
books.
More important is the fact that the co.
collects its income and manages its invest-
ments at low cost, that its assets are
worth more than their book-value, and
that comfortable margins exist in all
those matters upon which bonuses to
policyholders, soundness and progress
depend. Latest accounts disclose hearten-
ing growths in the surpluses available for
distribution among policyholders as well
. as in the rates of bonuses paid, while
further and marked improvement in the
net rate of interest earned, and other
'things, augur well for the future of both
policyholders and shareholders.
In the two life departments combined
the amount of new business put on the
books last term was £58,278,627 (up
£8,926,609), of which £47,003,669 (up
£9,088,062) was ordinary and £11,274,958
(down £161,453) industrial. After de-
ducting taxes (£115,271) and excluding
tax refunds (£60,000), total income in two
departments was £18,143,187 (up
£2,051,504). Here is a break-up of the
figures for each department:
Ordinary Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dee., Income.! Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
&£/£/£/ £»
’52.. 10,346,930 3,020,903 1,427,769 35,532 \ K
To staff fund, £45,726 .. .. j 5,817,000
From tax refunds, £578,830 .. .. |
’53.. 11,675,736 3,376,744 1,501,206 13,946 V 7,307,382
To staff fund, £55,228 J
From currency revaluation, £180,140 |
From tax refund, £27,000 . . .. { „„ Qftl
’54.. 13,397,803 3,803,519 1,727,094 84,136 [ '»927,3bl
To staff fund, £62,839 J
Industrial Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec. Income.! Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £,
1951.-3,826,246 1,118,103 904,597 8,708 1 , „„„ ~Q
To staff fund, £17,320 .. _ y l.< 77,458
1952.. 056.416 1,339,085 1,019,526 14,004 ] *
To general branch, £50,000 . . [ 1,615,456
To staff fund, £18,285 .. ..J
From tax refunds, £177,964 . . |
1953.. 415.947 1,458,584 1,049,014 2,630 [ 1,962,260
To general branch, £lOO,OOO .. [
» To staff fund, £21,423 .. ..J
From currency revaluation, £109,837 )
From tax refund, £33,000 .. .. j
1954.. 745.384 1,630,9851,080,397 39,235 f 2,054,943
To staff fund, £22,661 .. .. |
To general branch, £60,000 .. .. J *
! After deducting taxes. * Including shareholders’
proportion of profits.
'lncluding a currency adjustment of
£289,963 in connection with the co.’s
Canadian business, the amount added to
the assurance funds was £9,982,304, rais-
ing them to £98,757,819. That was after
£900,000 (excess over actuarial require-
ments) had been transferred from these
funds to general reserves (now £4,400,000),
which also belong to policyholders.
The amounts available for distribution
among policyholders (excess of assurance
funds over actuarial liabilities under
policies, calculated on a stringent 2} p.c.
and 2 p.c. basis), increased by £616,250
in the O.D. and £91,427 in the 1.D.:
Surplus.
£ £- £ £
1951. 1952. 1953 1954.
Ordinary . . 1,644,117 1,672,724 1,999,291 2,615,541
Industrial .. 252,560 286,780 351,435 442,862
Total . . 1,896,677 ,1,959,504 2,350,726 3,058,403
Bonuses to policyholders in each depart-
ment were again “appreciably” increased.
For the bigger surpluses and bonuses
policyholders can mainly thank continued
improvement in net interest earned in
relation to the assurance fund—£4 4s. Bd.
p.c. (up ss. 4d.) in the O.D. and
£4 ss. Id. p.c. (up ss. 2d.) in the I.D.
It was the strengthening of interest rates
generally over the last couple of years,
together with tax-refunds totalling
£816,796 and book-entries transferring
£3,600,000 from the assurance funds to
general reserves, that put the stiffening
into the percentage rates. Further though
less marked improvement in these rates
can be expected as old low-interest-bear-
ing securities mature and are reinvested.
The mortality experience was well
below that allowed for, and the ratio of
exes, to net premium income continues
to move in the right direction —16.1 p.c.
(down 0.1 p.c.) in the O.D. and 27.9 p.c.
(down 1.34 p.c.) in the I.D.
In the general branch, which belongs to
shareholders, the operating surplus was
£117,949 (down £229). The £1,000,000
of share capital is backed by £1,242,058
of-free reserves. The div. was jacked up
from 21.6 p.c. to 23.3 p.c. Sellers recently
asked 975. 6d. for the f.-p. £1 shares, at
which figure the return is 4.7 p.c. on the
basis of last term’s distribution, with
prospects.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the well-
balanced and conservatively-valued in-
vestment portfolio:
1953. p.c. 1954. p.c.
Govt, securities! £53,457,711 54.0 £59,380,876 53.5
Mortgages, etc... 29,176,076 29.4 32,860,904 29.6
Loans on policies 2,560,836 2.6 2,849,749 2.6
Debtors, etc. .. 1,050,175 1.1 1,250,173 1.1
Property . . 1,202,701 1.2 1,683,226 1.5
Debentures, etc. 4,732,684 4.8 5,355,631 4.8
Shares .. .. 6,886,568 6.9 7,713,845 6.9
£99,007,751 £111,094,404
Liabilities* . . 2,767,113 4,680,438
Net assets . . £96,300,638 £106,413,966
f Includes municipal and public bodies. * Other than
under policies.
Principal additions to assets last term
were £5,923,165 Government securities,
£3,684,828 mortgages (mainly in connec-
tion with home-building) and £1,450,227
shares and debentures. Progress in con-
nection with construction of new office
premises throughout Australia and New
Zealand, and purchase of a freehold in
North Sydney, where the “largest office
building in Australia” is presently to be
erected, sent the property item up by
£633,051.
Waters Holdings, Ltd.
TT has been, and still is, a very profitable
venture, and those on the register
have reaped the rewards of rich harvests
from the rapid post-war expansion of the
business. So, following the reconstruction
in 1951, the scrip became, temporarily
at any rate, a holding proposition, imme-
diate interest centreing mainly in the
dividend rate; with satisfactory long-
term prospects.
The wholly-owned operating subsidiary
(Waters Trading Co.), whose business was
founded by C. S. Waters early in this
century, imports Eastern produce, exports
Australian agricultural products, mills
rice, peas and barley, grinds spices, and
vends coir-mats, rugs, blinds, furnishings,
etc. It paid dividends averaging 13} p.c.
for the 14 years to 1951, when paid capi-
tal stood at £153,870 and reserves at
£211,035. The 1951 profit was 49 p.c. on
average capital compared with 71.4, 40.7,
29.4 and 19.4 p.c. back to 1947.
Then, in November, 1951, the present
holding co. bought all the trading co.’s
153,870 f.-p. £1 shares for £615,487, pay-
ing in its own scrip. The deal was equiva-
lent to a four-for-one bonus share-issue,
and the price exceeded net tangibles at
date of acquisition by £210,000. Although
the div. dropped from 17-} p.c. to 6 p.c.,
the lower rate was equal to 24 p.c. on the
trading co.’s capital, and 7} p.c. has been
paid for the two years to the close of
last accounts.
Net earnings, which reached a peak of
£107,440 in 1954, suffered a sharp con-
traction of £39,934 last term:
Waters Trading Co., Ltd.
Feb. 28, Profit. , Dividends N Reserves.
£ £ £
1950 .. 86,596 17} p.c. = 21,211 196,584
Reserves capitalised, £32,665.. 163,919
1951 .. 73,227 17} p.c. = 26,111 211,035
From assets revaluation, £14,000 225,035
Waters Holdings, Ltd.,
and Subsidiary.
March 31, Deficit.
To share capital, £461,610 .. 236,575
Preliminary exes., £3296 .. 239,871
Loss sale assets, £3411 .. 243,282
1952 .. 72,232 . 6 p.c. = 36,930 207,980
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. ) lfi!
1953 .. 79,356 6 p.c. = 36,930 j AD8 ’ UOl
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. ( inaovfi
1954 .. 107,440 7} p.c. = 46,162 j
1955 .. 67,506 7} p.c. = 46,162 87,932
The £67,506 of profit, written after allow-
ing £3020 (down £911) for depreciation
and £34,000 (down £9000) for taxation,
was equal to 10.9 p.c. on capital as against
17.7, 12.8 and 11.7 p.c. for , the three
preceding terms. So maintenance of the
7} p.c. distribution presented no difficulty,
and the £21,344 that remained reduced
the amount of capital unrepresented by
tangibles in the books to £87,932.
Falling prices for Eastern produce, and
increased supplies, especially of spice
lines, and consequent strengthening of
competition throughout the grocery trade,
were the chief troubles. The floor-cover-
ings and furnishings section and export
department handled a bigger volume of
business at satisfactory price-levels. Also
the two rice-mills in which the co. is
substantially interested —one in the Mur-
ray Valley and the other in the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation area —had another
satisfactory year, and a record crop is
expected to be harvested during the
current term.
The trading position is not as discour-
aging as movements in balance-sheet
figures might suggest:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital ..£615,487 £615,487 £615,487
Reserves . . .. 41,945 100,724 122,065
Creditors, etc. .. 307,122 281,958 501,526
Final div. .. 18,465 27,697 27,697
£983,019 £1,025,866 £1,266,778
Freeholds .. .. 234,891 234,891 234,891
Plant, etc. .. 74,891 77,514 80,563
Shareholdings .. 34,807 58,931 62,690
Stock .. . . 294,018 248,326 532,562
Book debts . . 134,409 184,180 146,067
Cash apd bonds .. 3 12,024 5
Intangibles . . 210,000 210,000 210,000
£983,019 £1,025,866 £1,266,778
Stocks (up £284,236) include for the first
time for many years the co.’s annual re-
quirements of agricultural produce for its
expanding export trade—supplies became
available earlier than usual because of fav-
orable harvesting conditions. To helpmeet
the additional outlay £219,568 was added
to the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc. There was a contraction of £38,113
in debtors’ balances. The more-or-less
liquid surplus, or net working capital
(£149,411) was £14,536 stronger.
The experimental rice project in the
West Kimberley district (W.A.), in which
the co. is also interested, has demon-
strated that rice can be grown success-
fully in the north, but public works for
the storage and control of water must
precede any substantial increase in pro-
duction, the chairman says.
The f.-p. £1 shares have had a fairly
steady market around 255. 6d. for some
time. The return at that figure is a satis-
factory 5.9 p.c. on a 7} p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover is 17s. Id.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
'T'HIS well-handled Melbourne retail
business, which specialises in tailor-
ing, mercery and sporting goods, has
always been a good profit-earner and
dividend-payer, and there is nothing at
the moment to suggest that it will not
continue to be. It operates largely on
a cash basis, means that trade
commitments, both as debtor and credi-
tor, are moderate, the store is at one of
the busiest corners in the city—Bourke-
and Elizabeth-streets, opposite the G.P.O.
—and the £400,000 of capital, of which
£lOO,OOO carries a fixed cumulative 9
p.c., had the support and assistance of
£438,383 of tangible reserves at February
28 last.
For the decade to the close of last
accounts ord. divs. averaged 12.2 p.c.,
sweetened with a one-for-two bonus scrip-
issue in 1951, compared with an average
of 10 p.c. for the preceding ten years.
Though the div. dropped from
12} p.c. in 1951 to 10 p.c. for
the two years to 1953, but the 10
p.c. was equal to 15 p.c. on capital as
it stood before the gift, and net earnings
were more than enough to maintain 12}
p.c. on the increased capital, despite the
economic setback which followed the
balance-of-payments crisis. Also the slip
of £6435 in the 1953 profit was more
apparent than real, because of an over-
provision of £11,987 for taxation.
The business has continued to step
along nicely since, and the div. was lifted
to 12} p.c. in 1954 and to 15 p.c. last
term:
f Dividends N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Feb., Prbflt. 9 p.c. 12} p.c. serves. serves.*
& £L & & &
1950.. 48,526 9,000 25,000 14,562 177,172
Revaluation assets, £200,000.. .. 877,172
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 277,172
1951.. 64,294 9,000 32,500 22,794 299,966
10 p.c.
1952.. 73,215 9,000 30,000 34,215 334,181
1953.. 66,777 9,000 30,000 27,777 361,958
From tax reserve, £11,987 .. 373,945
12} p.c.
1954.. 76,891 9,000 37,500 30,391 404,336
15 p.c.
1955.. 88.047 9,000 45,000 34,047 438,383
* After deducting goodwill (now £16,659).
The spring of £11,156 in the 1955 profit
was due to a “considerable” increase in
turnover at comparatively steady levels of
prices and costs. The record £88,047 of
net earnings was enough to pay the pref.
div. and show 26.3 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 22.6, 19.2, 21.4, 18.4, 19.7 and
22.2 p.c. back to 1949. So the lift in the
div. was an easy matter.
Among other things, balance-sheet
figures disclose a comfortable financial
position:
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955
Pref. . . . . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. . . . . 300,00 Q 300,000 300,000
Reserves .. .. 378,617 420,995 455,042
Mortgages .. .. 99,000 64,000 48,000
Creditors . . .. 39,271 40,238 53,123
Tax provision.. .. 54,214 43,185 ' 48,708
Final div i 5,000 22,500 30,000
£986,102 £990,918 £1,034,873
Freehold .. .. 638,518 638,518 638,518
Plant, fittings, etc. .. 23,086 24,558 57,342
Shares subsidiary .. 4,188 4,188 4,188
Stocks 191,459 194,388 197,870
Debtors .. .. 16,050 11,818 12,926
Cash, etc 96,142 100,789 107,370
Intangibles .. .. 16,659 16,659 16,659
£986,102 £990,918 £1,034,873
The strong holding of cash, etc. (up
£6581) puts- the co. in a position to take
immediate advantage of any favorable
trading opportunity that might offer. And
the net addition of £32,784 to plant, etc.,
is an indicator to the attention being
given to brightening the store and im-
proving shopping facilities for customers.
Since the close of accounts turnover
has continued to run at a high level, and
at the moment the stage appears to be
set for another year of successful tiading.
The co.’s past experience suggests that it
is not likely to be unduly troubled by
import restrictions. Chief threat to trade
and industry at the moment is costs-in-
flation, industrial-costs generally and
wage-costs in particular. Even without
excess demand, higher wage-rates will


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
■ J
Established 16UH in Reign of,
Qeorge 111.
# STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has - emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
NJS.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
3
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy' to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRID6E PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
■m*
ti
Gillette
S/////sV///Av'/s'Ss£/
Ws§mk
i
HIM®
tJ ///Ul f/ iff !! • I
i
///
iV fff: if / /a£blP
n• • i^friiw r Wi ift fi
1
Qf/fCK-fEED
DISPENSER
QO/CK-AenON
RAZOR
Here you have the perfect team! Twist . . . and
the quick-action Gillette Razor opens to accept a
new blade from the quick-feed Dispenser. Twist
. . . and the Blue Gillette Blade is ready to give
you the fastest, smoothest shave ever! Start
Superspeed Shaving to-day with the world’s finest
shaving system.
a
QiMS?
FMlm
KMA
Quick-feed Dispenser
with container at back
for used blades.
A,Wa ys buy ■
Blue t'umt tlades
,n 0 Dispenser—.
s "' Me P “H vZI
Quick-action Razors in
Gillette Sets from 9/6
START GILLETTE
/ss.
SHAViNG TO-DAY!
cause some increase in costs,
which can be expected to be
passed on, wholly or in part, in
the price level, unless offset by a
corresponding rise in pro-
ductivity.
The marked improvement in
last term’s earnings and lift in
the div. surprised the market,
which lengthened its bid for the
f.-p. £1 ords. from 365. 6d. to
48s. over the last 12 months.
The return at 48s. is 6.2 p.c. on a
15 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at
30s. yield 6 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £8 7s. sd. prefs. and
495. Bd. ords.
N.A.U.C.
Large-scale prospecting foir,
and development of, worth-
while uranium deposits is an
expensive business, as the experi-
ence of N.A.U.C. shows. The
co. kicked off in April, 1954, and
at March 31, 1955, had a paid
capital of £335,468 in ss. shares,
on which there was only £4032
to come. It had spent £153,984
on exploration, etc., £121,407 on
plant, buildings, roads, etc.,
£18,400 on acquisition of areas,
and £14,432 on brokerage and
preliminary exes., thus leaving
£25,245 of cash, etc., in the
kitty.
Meanwhile it had investi-
gated and, with one exception,
rejected a number of prospects.
The exception was the Sleisbeck-
South Alligator River area
(N.T.), where rights covering
about 700 square miles are held.
Here extensive preliminary pros-
pecting has disclosed a
geological pattern of uranium-
ore occurrence which suggests the
possibility of the field becoming
a large and, it is hoped, profitable
producer, warranting erection of
a treatment-plant on the spot.
To turn these possibilities into
more - or - less reasonable
certainties, the factual horse will
have to be put in front of the
theoretical, or probable, cart. To
do this will call for further heavy
capital expenditure on a more
extensive and thorough
geological investigation and test-
ing of the area than has thus far
been possible.
So, with the financial tide get-
ting low, and still ebbing, the co.
began to look for a knowledge-
able and wealthy partner.
Negotiations were opened with
the big Rio Tinto organisation
(London), which has large
uranium-interests in Canada.
Rio was prepared to come in,
provided it was given control,
an 18-months’ option and deben-
tures in return for money spent
on prospecting and development;
and, if results warranted, it was
also prepared to erect a
treatment-plant to handle ore on
a cost-plus-commission basis.
Although N.A.U.C. was pre-
pared to accept, two other parties
concerned —Uranium Develop-
ment and the N.U.D. group 1 —
rejected the offer, and Rio pulled
out. It has since offered more
liberal terms to A.O.E. in con-
nection with the Mary Kathleen
area (N.Q.).
N.A.U.C.’s next move was an
approach to American interests.
The outcome is that the Atlas
Corp.—a big U.S. investment
trust with extensive uranium
interests in its own country—is
to make an on-the-spot investiga-
tion of N.A.U.C.’s areas by the
middle of June next. If it is
satisfied with results, as well as
with “certain aspects of taxa-
tion, sales arrangements, and
other legal and financial
matters,” it will then take up
2,250,000 of N.A.U.C.’s unissued
ss. shares for cash at par
(£562,500, equal 1,265,625
dollars).
If and when that stage is
reached Atlas will own half of
N.A.U.C.’s capital, which will
become £1,125,000. N.A.U.C.’s
current new issue of 900,000 ss.
shares will lift its present issued
capital to £562,500, and, together
with the Atlas subscription, will
make £787,500 of fresh funds
available. Under the agreement,
which is subject to ratification by
N.A.U.C.’s shareholders, Atlas
would be entitled to appoint four
of nine directors, and be obliged
to provide technical personnel,
etc., for a period of two years.
The agreement also envisages
erection of a treatment-plant on
the area, financing of which is
“to be left for the N.A.U.C.
board to decide at the appropriate
time.” In its last annual report
the Australian Atomic Energy
Commission said that to explore
and develop a deposit of
commercial-grade ore to the pro-
duction stage, and erect a
treatment - plant (capacity
unstated), would cost roughly
between £3 million and £5
million.
The director of the raw-
materials division of the U.S.A.
Atomic Energy Commission
recently stated that Australia
could expect about £lO,OOO a ton
for uranium-oxide in the future,
when the world market settles
down. The £lO,OOO is less
than the undisclosed figure
now being received for Aus-
tralian uranium-oxide by the
Federal Government, which pays
private suppliers £4032 per ton
for the uranium-oxide in ores
assaying up to 1 p.c. The Gov-
ernment’s guaranteed minimum
price runs till June 30, 1958,
though the Anglo - American
Combined Development Agency
has contracted to take Aus-
tralia’s output until 1962.
The whole question of the
future of uranium in respect of
markets and prices is obscure at
the moment. Demand is chiefly
for strategic use and stockpiling,
the only buyers being Govern-
ments and Government agencies.
However, a new demand is
arising, and is likely to grow in
strength as the use of atomic
energy for peaceful purposes
develops. So, if private enter-
prise is not to enter the field of
large-scale production partly
blindfolded, the time has arrived
for Governments to be much less
secretive about such matters as
ore-reserves, rate of production,
mine and refining capacities,
costs and present and probable
future demand.
From thev investors’ point of
view the problem largely resolves
itself into questions relating to
markets, price, operating costs
and the grade and extent of ore
deposits. *And appearances are
that the early birds will catch
the best worms, as South African
and Canadian experience has
already demonstrated.
The market prices N.A.U.C.’s
f.-p. ss. shares at lls. 2d. or
thereabouts. Rights to the new
issue recently sold at 6s.
Mountain View Gold, N.L.,
Cue (W.A.), ceased mining on
March 4, 1955, values in its rich
ore-shoot at the northern end
of the Great Fingal reef having
petered out. Paid capital is
£200,000 in f.-p. 4s. shares, on
which the co. has paid divs.
totalling £50,000. At August 31
last the mine figures at £149,000,
plant, etc., which is to be sold, at
a written-down value of £11,758,
and current assets exceeded
current liabilities by £12,195.
The co. has no.w become jointly
interested with Western Queen
in Day Dawn Gold Pty., which
is to test-drill the possible exten-
sion of the Great Fingal ore-
body at depth (3200 ft.). The
Westralian Government is also
to assist the pew prospecting co.,
financially and technically.
Mountain View’s shares recently
sold around Is. in the market.
* * *
Mechanisation, a negligible
factor pre-war, is a powerful
force in the coal industry today.
During the year to June 30 last,
underground mines in N. S.
Wales spent nearly £4,000,000 on
reorganisation and re-equipment,
and 53 p.c. of the coal produced
was cut and 57 p.c. of it loaded
by machine methods—in many
new-type mines the figure was
100 p.c. On official records, full
mechanisation has shown that
output can be increased by up to
30 p.c., thus reducing production
costs per ton.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
The 1955 dancing-season was ushered
in with a brilliant ball at which 19
debutantes, gowned in white and carrying
sprays of gardenias tied with deep-green
satin ribbons, made their curtseys to the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks. It was the
Loreto Ball at the Royale, the debs,
being Loreto past-students.
The Governor was welcomed by Mrs.
John Dwyer, president of Loreto Old
Girls Union, with Mr. Dwyer, and the
vice-president, Mrs. Andrew England,
and Mr. England. Mrs. Dwyer’s gown
was of cinnamon-brown chiffon em-
broidered on the bodice with gold and
opalescent sequins; Mrs. England chose
deep-red taffetas.
In the official party were Dame Mary
Daly, in a gown of powder-blue satin
with circles of pearl and gold and black
sequins highlighting the bodice and flow-
ing-skirt; Dr. and Mrs. Anthony Kelly
(their daughter made her debut at the
ball); the president of Loreto Free
Kindergarten, Mrs. W. Calanchini, who
wore a gown of sea-green broderie
Anglaise which featured the H-line ; Dr.
Calanchini; and Mr. “Bing” Molyneux
(who announced each debutante and her
partner) and Mrs. Molyneux, whose gown
featured a long torso-top of black velvet
fish-net with a sash of pale-lilac taffeta
threaded through the velvet to emphasise
the H-line.
Among the dancers were Dr. and Mrs.
Harry Sinn (her gown of orchid-pink
satin) ; Mrs. John Donoghue, who repre-
sented Genazzano (her gown of heavy
white guipure lace with a deep-white satin
hemline and a band of pearl-embroidered
satin outlining the neckline ; and Mrs.
D. Donald (her jade-green white-em-
broidered pleated frock fashioned from a
sari). Joan Elliott represented Loreto
Convent, Ballarat; and Mary Dobson,
Loreto Abbey, Mary’s Mount, also in
Ballarat. Jill, daughter of Mrs. Jill Lam-
bert and granddaughter of Mrs. T. J.
Ryan, Queensland Government represen-
tative, was among the The
Governor danced with debutante Carole
Bowen, who last year was head-prefect
and captain of Mandeville Hall, Loreto
Convent.
☆ ☆ ☆
Luxuriant furs and lovely gowns gave
a gala air to Her Majesty’s Theatre when
Rina Malatrasi, star of Madame Butter-
fly, received a tremendous ovation at the
conclusion of the performance. A most
enthusiastic applauder was the Lady
Mayoress (Mrs. F. P. Selleck), who
topped her full-length silver-grey lace
gown with a silver-blue mink stole.
Mrs. A. G. Silk chose a short evening-
frock of pearl-grey wool which featured
a scalloped design of silver thread and
sequins on the skirt, worn with a sable
stole. With her was Mrs. Colin Norman,
whose stole of white Arctic-fox Was worn
over a short frock of black lace mounted
on white. Brilliant coral-pink satin made
Mrs. Robert Haisman’s short frock, the
fullness achieved by a series of wide-
box-pleats, and with it she wore a cocoa-
brown fox-cape. Mrs. Heathcote Wright’s
gown was of .black velvet contrasted with
an ermine stole. Mrs. Roy Shepherd’s
formal gown was of vieux-rose satin
patterned in tiny grey rosebuds; Mrs.
James Brown Pain chose a black gown
and white Arctic-fox furs. Mrs. Frank
Tait’s very full coat of black satin was
worn over a full-length gown of pale-blue
tulle. Mrs. Maurice Nathan wore a full
satin coat of pastel-pink, Mrs. S. Baillieu
Myer a silver-blue mink stole over her
black frock, and Mrs. Eric Fowler a
black-faille frock (with jet trimmings)
topped with a dyed-ermine cape-stole.
Mrs. Simon Warrender’s slate-blue satin
jacket was worn with a formal black
skirt; Mrs. Hilton Nicholas wore white
Arctic-foxes with her black velvet gown.
Gabriella Tucci, who sat with other
opera stars, wore a black velvet coat
over a rose-biege lace gown ; while Dora
Minarchi wore a lovely gown of white
satin, lightly patterned with black and
over it a full-length black velvet coat.
The second offering at Her Majesty’s
by the Italian Opera Co. was “La
Boheme,” with Rina Malatrasi as Mimi
and Australia’s Kenneth Neate in the
role of Rodolfo. Short evening-frocks
were well in evidence, and s'ilks replaced
the heavier materials ; many tulle stoles
were worn.
For the past four years Mrs. Frank
Tait, assisted by a large committee, has
organised a Mother’s Day concert, and
in that period £12,000 has been raised
for the Womens’ Hospital. This year
Mrs. Tait again heads the committee,,
and the concert will take place on May
8 at the Town Hall. Principals and
chorus of the Italian Grand Opera will
appear, as will pianist Nancy Weir and
singer Virginia Paris. In a short pageant,
45 children will pay a tribute to Mother’s
Day. Charles Norman will compere.
Admission is by donation, and reserva-
tions may be made at the J. C. William-
son booking-office adjoining Her
Majesty’s Theatre.
Here is Joy, elder daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. R. H. Allen, of Ormond, who is
interested in ski-ing and shortly will go
to Mt. Buller for the opening of the
season. During the summer she surfs
at Lome. She is making a career of
fashion co-ordination and is with well-
known milliner Thomas Harrison, of
Collins-street. Joy is also a member of
the St. Vincent’s Hospital Younger Set
and is in charge of decorations for the
High Jinx Ball to be held in the Royale
Ballroom on May 13. A ticket-secretary,
she may be contacted for tickets and
table - reservation at UL8235. John
Warlow picture:
A trio of attractively-dressed, yet
warmly-clad, women at Moonee Valley
for the club’s charity meeting were Mrs.
W. H. Horsfall, who topped a mink coat
with a tiny cyclamen velvet petal-hat,
Mrs. Lionel Newton, wearing a caramel-
tinted mohair coat and tiny black velvet
pillbox-hat trimmed v/ith jet, and Mrs.
Vere Matthews (Sydney), in a smart grey
ensemble and grey Persian-lamb jacket.
Mrs. John Cox looked smart in a bright
navy-cloth suit and tiny red hat; Mrs. Sue
Cain’s anthracite-grey suit was worn.with
an. azure-blue velvet cloche; Mrs. C.
Jensen’s smart silver-grey tailored frock
was topped by a silver-blue mink stole
and her pillbox-hat was of garnet-red
velvet. Mrs. Harry Armatruda wore a
large felt, hat in the new creme-de-
menthe shade, trimmed in a deeper tone
of velvet, above her grey-squirrel coat
and matching grey-wool frock. Shirley
Davies made a gay splash of color in a
lime-tweed coat contrasted wtih a citron-
yellow velour cloche.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. John O’Donoghue, president of
the committee,* will receive 14 white-
gowned debutantes at the annual Genaz-
zano Ball at the Royale on May 11. The
ball is in aid of the school building-fund.
Work is in progress on a new wing,
which will include a domestic-science de-
partment. Ticket-secretaries are Mary
Moore, Hawthorn 3611, and Susan
Parker, WY 1134.
☆ ☆ ☆.
Arts graduate Judith Ann Rogers, only
daughter of Brigadier and Mrs. J. D.
Rogers, of Malvern (she returned to Aus-
tralia last November after having been
abroad for three years), is wearing an
engagement-ring, a square sapphire with
clusters of small diamonds on the
shoulders. Her fiance is Major David
Scott Thompson, M.C., of South Yarra,
eldest son of Mr. H. G. L. Thompson
and the late Mrs. Thompson. David, an
old Scotch College boy and Duntroon
graduate, is a great-grandson^of Robert
Thomson, of Clydebank House, Clyde-
bank, Gippsland. He served in the Pacific
campaign in World War II and in Korea
with the First Battalion of the Royal Aus-
tralian Regiment.
SYDNEY
The level of liveliness reached at the
Orange ball at the Trocadero to cele-
brate the birthday of Queen Juliana of
the Netherlands convinced this Letter
that New Australians can teach us how
to take our pleasures merrily.
The dance started with ringing cheers
for Queen Juliana and the singing of the
Dutch National Anthem; then practi-
cally the whole 1000 people swung into
the “polonaise,” stepping forward arm-
in-arm, forming squares and eights and
circles, threading through the tables,
singing^songs (“The Happy Wanderer,”
“Waltzing Matilda,” etc.), greeting
friends in passing, and altogether putting
as much gusto into the opening of the
dance as is. normally put into the finish.
Immigration Minister Holt, who had
led the polonaise with Mrs. H. J. Levelt,
wife of the Consul-General for the
Netherlands, received an ovation when
he stood up to speak ; the supper interval,
usually so quiet, was livened by choruses
of Dutch songs from all tables ; the 18
girls chosen to compete for the title of
“Queen of the Ball” were supposed to
parade round the room, but in fact the
room paraded round them; dances
included tangos, rumbas, whole-hearted
old-time waltzes and some spirited
numbers in which the men threw their
partners up in the air on the “boom” in
“ta-ra-ra-/>oora-de-a.y.” The atmosphere
was gay, but not boisterous, and it was
an experience to attend the dance. Mr.
H. B. A. Hendricks, president of the
Netherlands Society, welcomed guests
with Mrs. Hendricks. Part of the pro-
ceeds go to the N.S.W. Flood Relief
Fund.
Pianist Vitalia Boursouk, whose first
recital in Australia Will be at the Conser-
vatorium on May 12, came here three
years ago from China, where she was
brought up and where she first appeared
as a concert-pianist at the age of H. Of
Russian descent, she has since lived in
Italy and Israel, and has now settled per-
manently in Australia. In private life she
is the wife of Mr. Saul Tyk and has one
little boy, George. At her recital she will
play works by Bach, Brahms, Schumann,
Chopin and Liszt.
The Governor, Sir John Northcott, was
present at the Anzac Festival Week con-
cert in the Great Hall of the University,
when the prize-winning one-act play,
“Epitaph for the Unborn,” was presented
by the Independent Theatre company
under the direction of Doris Fitton. The
prize-winning songs, “The Illawarra
Flame” and “Anzac Threnody,” were
sung by Valda Hyde. Other artists
included Harold Williams, Valda Clarke,
Frank Hutchens, the choir from Our
Lady of Lourdes, Earlwood, and from
the Teachers’ College. The memorial
carillon was played by John Gordon at
7.30. All the artists gave their services
free.
☆ ☆ ☆
Decor at the Coral * Sea Ball at the
Trocadero was unusual and spectacular,
giving an impression of jungle palm-
groves in the foyer and of tropical bril-
liance in the hall. Hundred of flags
streamed across the ceiling, and in the
centre of the hall a little coral island had
sprung up, complete with animals, birds,
shells, flowers and foliage. The guest-of-
honor was Lieutenant-General Bruce
Clarke, who, with Mrs. Clarke, was wel-
corned by president of the ball committee
Mrs. lan Jacoby, whose dress was a
Jacques Fath model of black Chantilly
lace in the new A-line. There were about
700 present, and the dressing was par-
ticularly smart —notable for the unusual
number of sheath-line dresses worn. Mrs.
Howard Steiner, with a committee of
American women, organised the decora-
tions, which were arranged by Anthony
Horderns’ display department. Forty
young naval-ratings hung the flags in the
hall.
* ☆ ☆ .
The annual dance of the St. Aloysius
Cadet Corps (Senior Unit) was held at
Mosman Town Hall on Friday and, as
usual, was a very charming function.
The young cadets escorted their partners,
mostly aged from 14 to 16, through a
guard-of-honor and introduced them with
meticulous correctness to the hostess of
the evening, Mrs. J. L. Williams, mother
of the senior cadet, Lieutenant Michael
Williams, and then led them into the
dancing-room, which was decorated with
flags, roses and pennants of represented
G.P.S. and Associated Schools. Guests-
of-honor were Colonel J. P. O’Sullivan
and Mrs. O’Sullivan, Brigadier H. H.
Edwards and Mrs. Edwards, and the
official party included Captain L. Skewes
and Miss E. Skewes, and Mr. and Mrs.
W. L. Burges.
☆ ☆ ☆
Shore Old Bdys’ dance is to be held
at the Trocadero on May 27, which pro-
bably means that there will be a great
gathering of Old Boys from all over the
State in Sydney that weekend. There
are to be two bands during the evening,
one specialising in Latin-American
music. So there will be ample opportunity
.to practise that mambo, or to learn it.
The president of the 0.8. U., Mr. Norman
Falk, will be official host. Tickets (one-
guinea each) are to be had from Miss
Margaret Black (BU 5934).
☆ ☆ ☆
The remark of Hephzibah Menuhin that
wife-beating was a fairly common prac-
tice in Australia caused comment in most
conversations during the week. Mostly
men are beginning to wonder whether,
they are more self-controlled than they
had thought, but the main reaction has
been: “It is clear we do not move in the
same social circles as Miss Hephzibah
Menuhin! ”
☆ ☆ ☆
The committee for the Black and White
Ball proposes to produce, later in the
year, “The Lights Were Amber,” by
Charles Macarthur Hardy, who wrote it
when he was at The King’s School, and
who is putting it on in London in June,
after a try-out in Portsmouth this week.
The London cast includes all the smart
younger-set, among them Prime Minis-
ter Eden’s niece Elfreda Eden, who will
dance a can-can. Casting will begin here
soon, and it will be interesting to see
who among our young lovelies a.re to
have parts. .
☆ ☆ ☆
Numbers are down, it seems, at nearly
all dances this season, and committees
are worried about it. The most-accepted
explanation is that the American enter-
tainers are sapping the spending-power
of those seeking entertainment. With
tickets as high as 39/- for a single seat
this seems likely.
☆ ☆ ☆
How the Elizabethan Trust will func-
tion was explained by its director, Mr.
Hugh Hunt, to the Elizabethan Ball
committee. The trust does not plan to
produce drama, opera or ballet, but
rather to stimulate the formation of
boards which will organise productions
on a national basis. If the plans of these
boards warrant it, the trust will sponsor
them and will help financially and in an
advisory capacity. Already two boards
have been formed, one for drama and one
for opera, but neither as such is connected
.with the trust.
The Elizabethan Ball committee, under
the presidency of Lady Braddon, will
hold its first function next Suhday, a
cocktail-party at the Majestic Theatre,
Newtown. Many musical and theatrical
personalities are expected to be present,
including Sir John and Lady Barbirolli,
Katharine Hepburn and Robert
Helpmann.
☆' ☆ ☆
An opportunity to catch up on the
odd-jobs round the house comes from
May 7 to May 14, when the Girl Guides
and the Brownies of N.S.W. are having
their Willing-Shilling Drive. Guides are
expected to earn the money raised for
their projects, and they will be willing to
clean your silver, tidy your cupboards,
run your messages, peel your vegetables
for whatever you think the job is worth
—not less than Is.


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
/hsure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Fry on Moses
This casting into verse of the
Moses story by Christopher Fry
hasn’t the force of Euripidean
drama or evep of the Bible
story, but it has more vitality
and vigor than the Marlowe
Society put into their produc-
tion at the Union Theatre,
Melbourne.
A simple reading of the Bible
story would have given a more
living picture than Bill Levis did
of the revengeful prophet who,
at 90, with Jehovah as his ally,
scared the daylights out of
Pharaoh by inflicting the seven
plagues upon his subjects. Mr.
Levis made him rather a benign
old gentleman with a long beard
and a habit of breaking into
poetic discourses when things
got very hectic.
Richard Trahair as Seti the
Second only looked sad and
worried when the dust of Egypt
turned into lice at a stroke from
Aaron’s rod and the frogs came
up out of the rivers and died on
the people’s doorsteps and were
gathered up in heaps so that the
land stank. Nanette Nunn, as
Miriam, his sister, seldom rose
above the level of drama-school
elocution, and although Monica
Maughan, as Pharaoh’s
daughter, did show some con-
cern when the baby she had
found in the bulrushes turned
out such a holy terror (when it
came to pass that at midnight
the Lord smote all the first-born
in the land of Egypt, from the
first-born of Pharaoh that sat on
his throne unto the first-born of
the captive that sat in the
dungeon ; and all the first-born
of cattle) there was no terrific
impact in the falling-dead of
Noel Battye.
j, „ ,
“The Love of Four Colonels”
Until I saw Canberra Reper-
tory’s version of Ustinov’s “Love
of Four Colonels,” I thought in
my innocence that any play-
wright or bar-room wit who
took on the subject of national
character and love was flogging
a pretty weary and senile horse.
But so long as Ustinov sticks to
the surface of this subject he
can put some new life into the
old draught-horse not with
deep, earthy humor, but the
rather brittle, tired wit of the
overcultivated
Unfortunately he is not con-
lent with the role of a wit, but
stumbles into the realms of
philosophy, where he is almost
as embarrassing as a politician
e
attempting to explain why he
changed his mind.
The performance of the wit
by the Canberra Repertory was
first-rate —in fact done with so
much gusto that it almost atoned
for the philosophical muddle
and mumbo-jumbo. George
Ogilvie turned in an excelleni
performance as the “bad spirit,”
and his laughter really grated
on the souls of the righteous.
Judy Robinson and Nora
Foster were competent as Sleep-
ing Beauty and the Good Fairy.
Neil Truscott did what he could
with Ustinov’s rather silly and
superficial conception of an Eng-
lish Army officer. Likewise
Harry Schmidt made the most
of Ustinov’s patronising con-
ception of the American as
essentially a child. (When will
these Europeans drop this
offensive conception of the
American?)
And, of course, the Russian
was an insensitive bore, and the
Frenchman the medium of
sweet, though wistful, reason-
ableness. And Harold Broken-
shire and Bob Parker mahaged
to think their way into these
Ustinov conceptions. Lloyd
Thompson created the Mayor
with his usual skill and verve.
But, really, has. Ustinov more
light than the boys in the bar-
room? And when will we see
national character as it is in
1955; and not through the eyes
of the men of 1789 —plus their
veneer of “culture”? —M. C.
❖ *> «>
Great Anna Whom Three
Realms Obey
Anna Russel continues to
avenge Sydney Town Hall audi-
ences ; they shake with laughter
throughout her show; the tears
roll down their cheeks more
easily for her than for more
serious artists.
The “song of gravitie,” “O
Lovely Death,” a madrigal in
which she took all the parts,
from adenoidal tenor to braying
baritone, is the most vivid
memory of her Wednesday
concert, though the intense and
perfectly-timed raspberry which
is the dying heroine’s message
to her betrayer in “The Death
Scene from the Opera ‘Anaemia’ ”
showed the lady’s mastery of all
kinds of musical expression.
Indeed, she plays the piano so
well, in her demonstration of
various musical extravagances,
and sings now and then such
perfect notes, and with so fault-
less a style, as in the “Old
Italian Air” and “Coloratura
Song” parodies, that one is
tempted to say how great a singer
may be lost in this really regal
fooling—it is the kind of
comment the critic by constant
mortification may in time learn
to resist.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Rigoletto”
Well, Mum, it was a good
thing you had a headache and
didn’t have to sit out “Rigo-
letto.” Really, Mum, that lead-
ing lady—what’s her name—
Ginetta la Bianca. Her top
notes!
All the same, top marks
ought to go to Kenneth Neate
for his handling of the Duke of
Plaza Toro—l mean II Duca di
Mantova. He looked handsome,
and he sang handsome, and he
made a lovable swaggering
villain, and Giulio Mastrangelo
as that hunchback fellow was
superb.
His acting and his voice and
the expression he put into his
voice—you could almost see his
heart breaking. And when he
killed his daughter instead of
her seducer by instigation—well!
And, although I’d like to think
that the prophet is without
honor in his own country,
Wilma Whitney, who is a pro-
duct of the ill-starred National
Theatre, was delightful in the
part of Maddalena. Her voice
showed great promise.
Sparafucile was there, I think,
in the person of Salvatore
Catania, but he failed to make
himself as black as he is painted.
❖ ❖
“Tosca”
If the company at Her
\ Majesty’s, Melbourne, thus made
a relatively poor showing in
“Rigoletto” they made up for it
with “La Tosca.” Elisabetta
Barbato Tosca’s singing of “Vissi
d’arte,” one of the most beautiful
arias in ■ opera, might have
satisfied even Puccini, while Afro
Scarpia Poli was of- immense
assistance in raising the seduction
scene to such a high pitch of
excitement that Tosca’s burying
of the carving-knife in his brisket
seemed logically to follow.
Umberto Borso’s contribution to
the intensity of the drama as
Cavardossi was immensely
enhanced by his readiness to risk
life and limb flinging himself at
the baron when that smiling
villain exasperated him beyond
endurance. Maestro Ottavio
Ziino maintained the lovely line
of Puccini’s music throughout
the proceedings.
❖ ❖ *
Klara Harrison
It is doubtful if any other
woman pianist in Australia can
better for dynamism the playing
of this young Ukrainian who has
settled here; and to a keen
awareness of interpretative
requirements she adds a tech-
nique that is strongly equipped
at all points.
The three major works which
she included in her concert at the
N.S.W. Music Lovers’ Club
certainly provided as searching a
test of her art as could have
been selected. There was
Busoni’s rich transcription of the
unaccompanied Chaconne from
the D Minor Violin Sonata ; in
this the ground-bass was evenly
sustained, and the monumental
variations built up with
tremendous verve. Beethoven’s
“Appassionata” Sonata was a
tempest of emotion in the first
and last, movements, and the
middle movement was a stream
of gentle reflection. Balakirev’s
immensely difficult “Islamey,”
with its swirling cross-currents
of sound and its gorgeously
colored Orientalism, was swept
through accurately and with
abandonment.
♦♦♦ ♦>
Monique Haas
Monique Haas, the young
French pianist at the Town Hall,
Melbourne, is so fantastically
good that listening to her playing
to a bare couple of hundred
people one wonders if one isn’t
dreaming, especially as she has
everything that the average
concert-goer looks for. She has
good looks, is sufficiently
important to have played
Stravinsky’s “Cappriccio” con-
ducted by Stravinsky, and has so
much versatility that she can
play Bach’s “English Suite”
and Mendelssohn’s “Variations
Serieuses” with the utmost
vitality and vigor, and her
fellow-countrymen Poulenc and
Ravel with the fastidiousness and
delicacy with which they wrote.
❖ ♦> *
“The Heiress”
Brisbane Twelfth Night
Theatre’s presentation of “The
Heiress,” by Ruth and Augustus
Goetz, was an impressive realisa-
tion of a drama that first saw
light as a Henry James novel.
The play is a study in family
frustrations.
Betty Ross, in a Jane Austen
wig, has never done better than
in suggesting the subtle change
of the daughter’s character from
vapid innocence at the beginning
of the play to calm resolution
just before the final curtain. Her
young man was taken by Lewis
Luton, too boyish in looks but
speaking well and. capturing the
essential indecision of the part.
The strongest man in the play,
Dr. Sloper, was too exacting a
role for Tom Parker, who lacked
the right degree of mocking
irony.
Marian O’Doherty was
adequately fussy and irritating as
Catherine’.s aunt, and the produc-
tion by Rhoda Felgate caught
the formal dignity of the 19th-
century New York society in
which the leisurely play is set. —
W. J. M.
REJECTION IN LOVE
When I tell them I love them, they never believe me.
I have found blondes and brunettes are the same.
They say, “If you loved me really you’d give me”
“A slap and a tickle? A kiss and a game?”
“Not only that but also a ring for”—
"Just come and I’ll show you a thing I can’t name.”
“Just a plain gold ring to wear on my finger.”
Mousehair and ashblonde, all are the same.
n.s.w.
RAY MATHEW.
Artbursts
Vic. Artists
There is more serious work of
a high standard and less of
modern fashions in the Victorian
Artists’ autumn exhibition than
there has been for a long time.
The modern idiom is repre-
sented by Eric Smith’s something
or other —it might be a bowl of
flowers—which is a nice decora-
tion, but not as good as a Persian
carpet; also by lan Bow’s
abstraction which looks like
colored plaster laid on with a
trowel.
Turning to less pretentious
efforts, John Farmer’s carna-
tions catch the eye, and so does
J. A. Konig’s sketch of a bit of
Victorian coastline, though for a
different reason —the green hill-
side seems to be overstated;.
Graeme Inson’s rocky seascape
is good, but a trifle blackish —
Rex Bramleigh’s studio self-
portrait is more luminous in the
shadows.
Max Ragless has made a
valiant attempt to transfer Ayer’s
Rock to canvas, but he has lost
the texture and it looks like a
red haystack inexplicably stick-
ing up in the desert. Tom
Skelton also misses-out on
textures in his factories by the
river Yarra.
Charles Bush’s conscious effort
to be original in No. 25 can be
compared with Desmond
Norman’s picture of a country
road and a paddock. Mr.
Normhn has obviously felt the
horror of a dump of wrecked
motor-cars, over which hoardings
no doubt advertising the latest
model have been complacently
erected, and has conveyed some
of his feeling to his canvas, with
the result that he has produced
something very airy and nice in
color.
Arnold Holst has a pleasant
bowl of blooms, and William
Frater a bush scene in which the
color appears to have been
washed out.
There is some interesting work
by, among others, R. T. Lilburne,
Max Casey, Arnold Shore, Peter
Glass, Doris Reynolds, Lena
Skipper, R. T. Miller and Judith
Eagle. Lesley Sinclair (No. 86)
paints sunlight supremely well.
►J» v <£»
Dargie
In his first one-man show in
Melbourne for a long time
William Dargie is displaying
portraits, sketches done when he
was serving in Crete and Greece
with the forces and English
landscapes presumably done
between Royal sittings. The
earlier pictures look fresher and
less formularised than the
later.
**♦
Abstractions
Most of Michael Shannon’s
abstractions at the Peter Bray
Gallery are as innocuous as the
rest of the half-million which
have come off the production-
belt'in Melbourne over the last
few years and a few are rather
pleasant patterns. It is where
the artist allows himself to make
a more-or-less plausible imita-
tion of a natural object that they
become most dubious. There are
marks in “Under the Palm-
trees, Summer” which are obvi-
ously meant to be palm-trees,
and there is a blob of color in the
left-hand corner of “Summer
Morning” which is meant to be
the sun, and here and there are
melancholy figures which might
be children. They are so ineptly
drawn and so amateurish that
they arouse grave doubts as to
the competency of the rest of the
composition.
RE'S TO SYDNEY
Here’s to Sydney by the summer!
Body-surfing down a comber
Where the girls are three a
gallon
To a beach of yellow pollen;
Breaking hearta and backing
horses
(Bookies weeping in their purses,
Licking thumbs and counting
tenners) ;
Dreaming up tomorrow’s
winners;
Paris maids when I awaken
Serving Moet with the bacon
Lying round on leopard-skins
With brides and broads and
mannequins;
Frowning at vice-regal balls—
Kiss my aunt and Tattersall’s!
Tattersall’s, I am thy farrow,
Keep a place for me tomorrow.
\
So the gentle presser sang
While the cutout whistle rang;
And Lady do not question why
He lies dead drunk in Gundagai.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPRELL.
Talkies
“White Feather” (Sydney
Plaza): A better-than-average
frontier drama of the ’7o’s when
the first serious efforts were being
made by the military people to
establish lasting peace with the
Indians; the film concentrates
effectively on the touchy
Cheyenne tribe during the
negotiations and the final
triumph of the peacemakers. An
unknown who plays the Indian
chief takes the honors for natural
dignity and speech.
“Hit the Deck” (Sydney St.
James): Three sailors on shore-
leave —one the admiral’s son —
and (who’d have guessed it?)
three girls—one the admiral's
stage-ambitious daughter—and
tangles with the shore-patrol
are the ingredients of this effer-
vescent M.G.M. musical. The
decor is devastating Jane
Powell, Debbie Reynolds and
Ann Miller. Dance sequences
have speed and precision, the
lyrics even a modicum of wit,
and the dependable Walter
Pidgeon mixes the careers of
unharassed admiral and care-
worn father with aplomb.


The Slugabeds
by
WTHEL CLNLERSON
HOW does dawn come,
in June, to Mallow’s
Marsh?
It comes very slowly.
Clouds that had hugged the sky
like blankets would be lifted a
chink or two about twenty-past-
si'x, and in the crevice, the
Morning Star might appear, a
constellation of astonishing
magnitude, shining about a yard
above the tower of St. Stylites-in-
the-Marsh; then the blankets
would be pulled together, grey,
dun, woolly. Not until seven-
o’clock would a silver gleam
waver in the east, a glimmer
which, on the particular day here
to be chronicled, would on closer
scrutiny turn out to be rain.
It had rained at Mallow’s
Marsh until the village was the
one spot for miles and miles that
was not under water, and that,
not because it stood on high
ground, but because Tom Tickle’s
Creek and another small
tributary of the Nepean,
encircling it, flowing voraciously,
drained it.
Things indeed looked so bleak
that public interest was yet once
again centred on Noah’s flood,
and the Reverend Phineas
McCree, rector of that outpost of
Christian thought, some five
miles from Parramatta in pre-
paration for the following Sun-
day’s sermon, was re-reading
Bishop Burnet’s account of the
“First World Inundation,” all
Mallow’s Marsh being at that
moment confident that a second
deluge, against which the local
eccentrics were making them-
selves safe by means of many
ingenious devices, was imminent.
It was generally believed in the
village that Mallow’s Marsh was
to have the honor of becoming
a new Ararat-(in-the-Marsh).
What had the learned and
saintly bishop had to say, at the
latter end of the year 1686, about
“ane Universal Deluge” ?
He remarked, “It is now more
than five-thousand years since
our world was made, and tho’
it would be a great pleasure to
the mind to recollect and view
at this distance those primitive
scenes of Nature, and learn what
the face of the earth was like
when fresh arid new, the specula-
tion is so remote as to be beyond
the reach of human wit.”
The rector of St. Stylites-in-
the Marsh agreed with this
dictum.
He had already held his early
service, the reiteration of prayer
and praise which, for thirty
years, he had daily enunciated
in an empty church, which was
for him not empty; and during
which repetition, it is to be sur-
mised, a great deal of intimate
conversation about crops, the
remarriage of young widows, the
education of grandchildren, or
the difficulty of making provision
for one’s dependants would be
carried on with the God of his
worship, now an old friend.
With his feet in red, carpet-
slippers, wilfully embroidered by
his granddaughter Juliet, with
his horn-rimmed spectacles lend-
ing even more dignity to an
important Roman nose, Mr.
McCree, now relaxed in his
“snuggery,” went all the way
with his author on this point.
But about the truth of the
bishop’s next assertion he was
doubtful;
Bishop Burnet answers those
persons who assert that the
Flood was occasioned “by the
element of air being changed into
water” by stating that “Vapors
are indeed water made volatile,
but that pure air, so far as is yet
known, cannot, by any com-
pression or condensation, be
changed into water.”
Furthermore, the bishop insists
that were the whole atmosphere
turned into water, it would make
no more than thirty-four-feet of
fluid, “a proportionable cylinder
of which, counterbalancing it,
might reach to the top
of the atmosphere.” But (he
triumphantly concludes) “tho’
this moiety, laid flat, would lap
the world in but eleven-feet of
moisture, how would those
persons propose to get rid of this
water after the Flood?”
How indeed!
The rain poured down in
torrents.
With great presence of mind
Mr. McCree fell asleep.
TTOWEVER, some twenty
ZX minutes later, when Mrs.
McCree brought him in a
cylinder merely five-inches in
proportion, in which was
enclosed his morning portion of
chocolate, agitated by domestic
art into a pink froth (as he liked
it) with a sparsely-buttered
muffin and a thickly-buttered
crumpet, both very hot (as he
liked them), a poached egg being
coaxed to lie in state on the
crumpet (as he liked it), all laid
on the segments of two circles —
for the plates were chipped—his
wife found him again engrossed
in his book.
Another knotty (and very
meaty) point was engaging his
attention.
“If, after the Vulgar Flood,”
the bishop asks, pertinently,
“eight persons are allowed to
have propagated all Asia, Africa
and Europe, is it likely that,
before the Flood, men, who then
lived six-, seven- or eight-hundred
years getting sons and daughters,
would have got no further than
the populating of Judea?”
The rector, at eighty-four,
found it so reassuring, so
delightful to be reading about
men who had attained to the
glories of eight-hundred years
(getting sons and daughters) that
it did not occur to him to wonder
why Mrs. McCree herself had
brought him in his breakfast-
tray, a service always performed
by the housemaid, or, on her
day out, once a month, by the
kitchen-maid.
The rain poured down.
The fire burned brightly in the
“snuggery,” where peace reigned,
but all was not well in Mallow’s
Marsh rectory.
In the feu-de-misere that
untold millions of drops were
firing on the roof, a note of
revolution, unheard by the
drowsy rector, was being
sounded.
The smoke from the kitchen
chimney rose, a draggled plume,
from the streaming chimney-pot,
true; but the flues, for the first
time in thirty Junes, had not
been swept. The roof, made of
wooden slats, in many places
endowed with the beauty of old
lace, grey lace, had not, for the
only time in thirty winters,
“gone over and patched up” by
Mr. Turtle, the gardener, who
did all odd jobs at the rectory
except cultivate the garden, in
which he took no interest.
No rows of buckets filled with
drinking-water, drawn up from
the deep well, were ranged along
the scullery wall, no store of
split wood was stacked under its
iron shelter by the back-door.
No heap of vegetables made a
Dutch masterpiece on the brick
floor of the dairy.
The calves were unfed; they
were very noisy. The hens were
unrobbed, they were loudly
articulate. Forty-eight young
hogs, rootling about in a dirty
sty, were beginning to toy with
the idea of eating/one another.
The horses were neither fed nor
groomed. No snuffle of nostrils
expelling oat-dust, no cheerful
hiss, no swish-swish of curry-
comb, no echoes of heartily
slapped withers, came from the
stables. Ten indignant and
uncomfortable cows lowed at the
stockyard sliprails.
Very early in the day, when
her cup of morning-tea had
made no appearance, Mrs.
McCree had become aware of
the astounding fact that Cook-
Teresa was partaking of break-
fast in bed ; for the new house-
maid and the newer kitchen-
maid, and Abigail the orphan,
her assistant laundry-maid, were
continually to be met, passing
upstairs with averted faces, as
they carried up delicacies from
the larder, the dairy, the store-
cupboard, the safe. After which
kind, and hardly disinterested,
offices they had shut themselves
up in their attics.
It was at eight-o’clock that
Mrs. McCree realised, too, that,
for the only time in twenty years,
Mrs. Gog had not put in an
appearance ; Labor, indeed, was
in revolt.
With her daughter-in-law re-
married, her grandchildren gone,
her nearest friend five miles
away, beyond reach of advising
her, Mrs. McCree, who never
worried her husband about
trifles, was distracted.
The cows, of course, were her
first care. Many happy reunions
took place when she turned the
calves into the paddock with
them.
While rain still gnawed the
earth with decaying teeth she
freed the hogs in the potato-
patch, the hens in the cornfield,
she fed the horses in their stalls.
She split wood. She drew water.
She waded after, and brought
in, a cauliflower, decrepit but
serviceable.
The rain, it rained.
The roof, it leaked.
The fire, it smoked.
Nevertheless, Mrs. McCree
cooked lunch.
The rector relished his meal.
Afterwards, every so often, his
devoted wife would peep round
the “snuggery” door at him, to
see him dozing, or grappling
afresh with the list of lessons to
be learnt from the primal inunda-
tion. He had made ten neat
deductions to that end, each
conclusion growing wiser and
wiser under the concentration
of his thought and the experience
of his octogenarian convictions.
/"YN Sunday five elderly men
and women, mostly deaf,
seven children, always inatten-
tive, a young mother come to be
churched, her child brought to
be christened, two choir-boys,
eating liquorice, all of whom
would certainly be afflicted with
heavy colds, were to hear, the
rector hoped, just such another
inspired discourse as that which
three laborers and the verger had
heard at Bishop’s-Bourne, in
1612, when the judicious Hooker
had given them “The Learned
and Comfortable Assurance of
the Certainty and Perpetuity of
Faith in the Elect.’*
Though the rector feared that
he could not hope to surpass that
other masterpiece, which may be
read in The Fragments of Mr.
Hooker, on “The Prophet
Habakkuk’s Belief,” his sermons
were often hardly less inspired
than those Mr. Herrick (his locks
stained with galbanum and
storax, his amorous jets of verse
for once laid aside) delivered in
the presence of “three hinds and
Prewdence Baldwyn,” at Dean-
Prior, during the twenty years of
his Arcadian repose in that rustic
parish. The equally incandescent
outpourings declaimed by Mr.
White, when snow lay three-feet
thick in Selbourne, were not
beyond Mr. McCree’s accom-
plishment.
It was the same voice.
It was the authentic voice, the
utterance of the saints, the
scholars, the martyrs of the
English Church, heard . for
centuries —since the days of
Bede, of Caedmon of Laydmon,
of Guthlac of Crowland —under
the starlit country of Charles,
his wain, and, in a later age,
under a brighter, a more seemly,
constellation —the Southern
Cross.
When Mrs. McCree closed the
door, after peeping in at the
dozing rector at three-o’clock,
she became aware that Mr.
Turtle, the gardener, was stand-
ing in the hall behind her, drip-
ping pools of water on to the
linoleum from the two sacks that
made his wet-weather attire.
She at once realised that he
was the chosen emissary of
Labor-in-revolt.
She knew, instinctively, that,
for the time being, he was not
her servant, but a yeoman, a
Briton, a Native of Australia, a
son, a husband, a father, a grand-
sire, or any other of those titles
to which the free, the brave, the
independent have a right by
reason of their humanity, their
self-hood, their consciousness of
virtue; in short, Mr. Turtle
waited on her in the character of
Homo sapiens.
‘The rector is asleep so I
cannot invite you into the
‘snuggery.’ I would ask you into
the drawing-room, but there is
no fire there, so if you would
very kindly leave your wet things
in the scullery, I think we should
find it warmer if we had our chat
by the kitchen-ffre.”
So said Mrs. McCree, a bit
breathlessly, for she was nervous.
Mr. Turtle said, “Thenks, he
would,” and sneezed seventeen
times.
So, presently, she and Mr.
Turtle found themselves sitting
opposite each other on either side
of the kitchen-range, Mr. Turtle
with a mug of cider in his
incredible hand.
“It’s like this here,” he began,
finishing the cider at one draught.
“We works too hard, we does.
Us folks say as a day of twenty-
six hours is too long a day for
the likes of u§, not being slaves,
see? And what we says is, a
twenty-four-hour day is all we
means to tire ourselves with, in
future, you and the rector being
agreeable like.”
“What!” Mrs. McCree was
indignant. “What! A twenty-
four-hour day! Why, I never
heard of such a thing in my life,
never! Oh, what a heartless set
of people you are! Think of the
poor animals! Think of them,
Mr. Turtle, if you have no con-
sideration for the rector and for
me! How will they suffer for
your selfish and outrageous
demands? Tell me that now! ”
Mrs. McCree could not afford
to sit by the fire without folding
back her skirt, to prevent any
risk of scorching it, and
forgetful of her visitor’s sex, she
now turned it up over her lap,
and sat with her neat cotton-
moiree petticoat (lined with red
flannel, which did not show)
decently covering her ankles.
Her eyes were brilliant with
anger.
“Well!” she breathed again.
“I never heard of such wicked-
ness! What outrageous laziness!
Fed! Clothed! Cosseted! And
you refuse to repay our care by
working! You have done a
twenty-six hour day, most of
you, for I don’t know how many
years—twenty at least, and I’ve
never had a word of complaint
from one of you before —never!
At any rate, on that score. There
was a bit of trouble some fifteen
years back over the quality of the
“Ha! Yes, indeed!” Mr.
Turtle ejaculated, leaping at an
old dispute, “ ’Twas not penny
ale, we says to the rector, ’twas
farthingale! ’Twere that thin a
babbie could have swallered pints
of the stuff! ”
“Yes! Yes! I remember, Mr.
Turtle, but that was all amiably
settled long ago, and I have
heard no complaints about the
beer since, none, and I hope you
have always found it
drinkable ...”
“With the beer, the cider, the
peach-beer and the perry, and
on big occasions, like, the rum,
seeing as we makes most of the
liquor ourselves, and sees to it
that they is of the best, and does
the rector credit, like, when
visitors comes, none of us has
any complaints to make —now! ”
Mr. Turtle allowed, his wide,
flat, rubicund, vacant and un-
wrinkled face glowing like the
embers at the base of the roaring
fire they sat by.
HE was a colossal man. All
his garments were clay-
colored, and his boots so caked
and encased with mud and dung
that they looked like gigantic
swallows’-nests; he seemed to
have come out of the earth, not
to have lived on it.
He sat rubbing his knees,


smiling his unthinking smile, his
oxlike eyes wandering over the
neat dresser, frilled in paper, with
the blue-and-white china from
egg-cups to soup-tureens, each
piece set in its appointed nook,
or on its proper hook; over the
deal table, scrubbed twice daily
with sand till it looked like
ivory; the red brick floor,
polished with wax.
In the warmth and silence, the
clock in the centre of the mantel-
piece nicked off the moments of
its desiccated hours with a kind
of tinny hiccough, while the rain
made the window look like a
fishmonger’s; its waterfall was
so persistent ; one missed only
the fern and the fish.
“And an hour off at noon-
day ! ”
Mrs. McCree, perched on her
Windsor-chair (made in deal ‘and
as light in color as the table),
sat, a pocket-Ceres, who had
once been Persephone. Her
dress, of cotton rep, was the
color of a Parma-violet, and at
her neck a satin bow, fringed,
asserted its freshness under a
chin as stubborn as a marble
pebble.
“Oh, ah, we has agreed as
conditions are fair enough on
that -score,' and an hour off at
breakfast, and half an hour’s
snack at eleven, and a good meal
ready for us to carry out to our
work, like, at noon, and a some-
thing at four, and a good high
tea at six, and beer and cheese
and a nightcap like about
ten . . . ”
“And a good suit once a
year ...” .
“Fair enough, I grants you,
Ma’am, and very good duffle, or
nankin, or worsted like they be
made of, and Miss Appolona, to
Lakesland, she runs them up
skilful, we all allows,” Mr.
Turtle conceded, with the' air of
an Ambassador to the Court of
St. James.
“And all the milk you want.”
“Yes, yes, ’tis fair enough that
way.”
“And good blankets, that are
yours after six months”
“Ah.”
“And all the firing you
want... and all the vegetables
you need.”
“Yes, yes.” Mr. Turtle spoke
soothingly. He was afraid that
his mistress was getting excited.
“And all the fruit . . . pears,
apples, peaches, grapes, lemons,
oranges, figs ...”
“Aye.”
“Eggs!”
“I grants it.”
“Chickens, ducks, turkeys,
guinea-hens, jam, sucking-pigs,
damson, cheese-honey! Have I
ever begrudged you anything
you wanted?”
“ ’Tis true. No one denies as
there’s pickings to be had here
as can’t be got to Parramatta.”
“And hasn’t Mr. Peachy
[Old Ike’s more formal designa-
tion] built his own cottage from
the trees the rector allowed him
to fell in the old selection,
Picton way? And done this in
his spare-time!” Mrs, McCree
concluded triumphantly.
Mr. Peachey had indeed
erected for himself and his wife
and family of eight children a
shanty as pretty as a toy. He
had made it of split logs, the
bark still hanging to them on the
outside, with a roof fashioned of
slabs of bark, held down by
saplings laced together with wire.
Even its chimney, as wide as a
room, was made of bark, all that
the hand of affection could do
had been done, in the way of
tacking staghorns and rocklilies
to the shaggy walls outside, and
looping festoons of bird’s-eggs
to the stripped walls inside.
With two orange-trees in front,
with a pig, twelve hens, and a
fattening calf at the back, with
a well conveniently placed under
the narrow hall —the planks
loosely covering it permitting
dizzy glimpses of water sixty-
feet down—what more could any
householder want?
Sitting in the warm kitchen,
torrents pouring down, foaming
down, on the roof above them,
both Mrs. McCree and Mr.
Turtle thought with admiration
of the good job Mr. Peachy had
made of his house.
“Oh, ah, snug enough it be,”
Mr. Turtle ruminated.
A/TRS. McCREE set her white
ty*. lisse cap straight on her
delightful head.
“I tell you frankly, Mr. Turtle,
that X consider this demand
monstrous and heartless! Apart
from the cruelty to the poor
animals—indeed the thought of
the cows alone makes my heart
bleed —yes! it does! —it would
mean keeping at least two more
servants if I were to give in to
this exorbitant imposition, and
with the rector’s stipend at a
mere ninety-pounds a year how
can we possibly embark on
further expenses?”
“You’ve the Easter offerings.”
“Seven-shillings.”
“You’ve the weddings”
“Perhaps three a year. The
rector gives them back the fee
as a wedding-present, poor young
people.
“It takes six women servants
to run this house! Cook-Teresa
says she cannot manage without
a kitchen-maid —and I quite
agree! She has the dairy! The
butter, cheese, bread, jams and
preserves to make, and the fruit
to bottle! She has to prepare
and cook meals for the house-
hold, the servants’ hall and the
outdoor servant, too —as you
very well know, Mr. Turtle!
And the meals must all be served
at different hours!
“If Cook-Teresa were not
such a good manager she would
never* manage, even with a
kitchen-maid! Though she does
not have to rob the hives, she has
to strain the honey, and seal it up
in jars. Though she does not
have to smoke the bacon, or cure
the hams, she has to see them on
their marble slabs, and rub the
saltpetre and treacle and spices
into them, every few. days for
weeks on end!”
“And very good ham, and
very good bacon—we allows it.”
“Thank you, Mr. Turtle.
Then, the housemaid, naturally,
cannot* manage without an
under-housemaid —for we keep
no parlor-maid! She has all the
silver to care for, and all the
mending to do—the house-linen
alone is one woman’s work!
Clean sheets once a week! Clean
table-napkins at. every meal —
I am not yet such a slack
chatelaine, Mr. Turtle, as to
allow them to appear twice! As
for the baths! Six journeys
upstairs must be made with pails
of hot or cold water —and dirty
water carried downstairs —for
each bath” 46
“Women’s work,” Mr. Turtle
put in, refusing his sympathy.
“And the washing! Mrs. Cog
says she would be lost without
Abigail the Orphan—who is
shaping very well.”
“A neat little piece,” Mr.
Turtle conceded.
“As for the outdoor work!
Well, you know what that is!
Fields to be ploughed! Corn,
wheat, oats, potatoes to be
planted! And the carting! And
the livestock!”
“Aye, the births, deaths and
marriages, like.”
“ And though, Mr. Turtle,
a day may come when Australian
men will allow their women —
the wives, mothers and expectant
mothers of a more enlightened
age—to have the privilege of
doing all this work for them-
selves, and I dare say all the
fetching and carrying your cart
and horse does as well, as things
are now we depend on the help
of our menfolk, and our trades-
people.”
“Oh, ah, I dare say, Ma’am,
’tisn’t begrudged you in reason !
And I grants it takes us all of
twenty-six hours to grapple with
the outdoor labors like, but we
be adamite! We will work
twenty-four hour a day like, but
no more, never no more ; and
we’ve all agreed to this, and
we’ve all sweered to hang
together like, come what may.” v
Mr. Turtle looked resolute.
HER eyes now quite orange
with fury, and sparkling like
the Morning Star, Mrs. McCree
stood up.
“Very well. If that is how you
all feel about it, I will make a
suggestion.”
“Fair enough if you meets us,
Ma’am.”
“Yes. Mrs. Wirraway and
Mrs. Boisragon, in Parramatta,
both need a gardener. I will give
you the very best character a
man ever had—and you can go
and apply for the position. And
see how you like it.”
Mrs. McCree took from the
dresser the quill, and the ink
Cook-Teresa kept there, and
stripped a sheet of paper off the
block.
“Your Christian-name?”
“Ebenezer.”
Mr. Turtle looked sulky.
The quill scribbled vigorously.
“Now, here you are .. .
Ebenezer Turtle is a man of
magnificent physique and
unusual intelligence. He is a
clever craftsman at whatever task
he sets himself. He is absolutely
honest, sober and trustworthy;
there is no job he cannot turn his
hand to, and for thirty years he
has been more like a friend than
a servant to his present
employers ...”
Mr. Turtle, who had risen,
looked complacent.
“Age?” Mrs. McCree asked,
her astonishing yellow eyes look-
ing directly and piercingly into
his.
Mr. Turtle looked aggrieved.
“What has my age got to do
with ut? I’m a Turtle of
Doggett’s Patch, see? And we
Turtles of Doggett’s Patch, we
be a able-bodied lot, and we be a
full ten year better-bodied, like,
than the chaps to Parramatta,
or Hornsby Junction, or Dural,
that we be!” Mr. Turtle insisted,
warmly.
“Age?” Mrs. McCree reiter-
ated, coldly.
“Put eighty.”
“Your true age, Mr. Turtle?”
Mrs. McCree would not relent.
“Eighty-seven last birthday.”
Mr. Turtle was, after all, a man.
Mrs. McCree finished the
reference and handed it to him.
“Off you go, Mr. Turtle! And
you may tell the other servants
to come up and see me at their
earliest convenience and I will
“Sorry I'm late, Mr. Snaith. I've been out looking for
another job."
write a note recommending them
to any employment they care to
apply for.” .
“Oh, come, Ma’am ...”
“Go at once, if you please”—
Mrs. McCree folded her arms —
“and tell the other
mutineers”
“Oh, come, Ma’am,” Mr.
Turtle was shocked.
“ to come up and see me.
They are ashamed to face me,
that I see! I will call Cook-
Teresa and Jinny and Milly and
Abigail the Orphan down, too,
and we shall go thoroughly into
this question. A twenty-four-
hour day, indeed!”
They parted.
opening the “snuggery”
door Mrs. McCree felt as if
she had slipped down a precipice,
for she found herself immedi-
ately transported into the year
1612. The rector had just dis-
covered King James the First.
“My dear Jessie! A most
incredible thing! I find, on re-
reading Walton’s Lives, that it
was King James who forced all
our great divines to take orders!
He was determined that the
church should be enriched by the
best brains, the noblest characters
England then offered. Such a
list! Donne, Herbert, Hooker
(at least he praised Hooker) —
why, my dearest! What on earth
is the matter?”
Mr. McCree, whose eyes in the
exaltation of this discovery had
been shining like sapphires
dipped in phosporus, came down
to, earth.
Mrs. McCree, her knees
trembling, leant her back against
the door for support. She had a
helpless dovelike air that was full
of appeal; her whole attitude
presupposed a cat round the
corner.
“Oh, darling Phineas! You
know very well that when we
first came here, about thirty
years back, your stipend went
nowhere —nowhere !”
“My dear, I shall never forget
our struggles. Nor your wise
solution of them.”
“Oh, but was it wise? As
you know, dear, because it was
so hard to feed four mouths, I
got some poultry—and then, it
seemed sensible to s6w grain to
feed them, and since we had
grain, it seemed cheaper to
a horse than to hire one, and
when we had a horse to feed, it
only appeared to be reasonable
to keep a cow?”
She saw in the clouded mirror
that his cap was askew, and
straightened it.
“And a cow meant calves, and
butter, and there was enough
over, after our own needs were
satisfied, to allow us to hire a
man, who could chop free fire-
wood, from the selection, and
milk the cow, and sow the oats,
and till the field, and start an
orchard, and drive the cart into
Parramatta to market all the
vegetables and fruit and chickens
and butter we did not need
ourselves ...”
“My dear! I have never once
doubted your wisdom in farming
our land! ”
“Then hives seemed natural to
have! It seemed sensible to make
cider from the surplus of apples,
and economical to keep a pig to
eat the waste food, and drink the
sour milk, or the vegetable-tops!
I quite felt that it cost us nothing
to invest in a pig. To sell twelve
of the sucking-pigs, to make the
old pig into bacon, and fatten up
the new sow! It seemed
reasonable?”
“It was perfectly reasonable! ”
agreed the rector, mystified.
“And when one man and one
woman said the work was too
hard for them, it seemed so
simple to double the livestock
and add to the fields under culti-
vation, and plant new fruit-trees,
and get more cows, and engage
more labor. It did indeed.”
“It was wise.”
Mr. McCree still kept his book
in his hand, a finger marking his
place.
“When the assigned servants
were freed, and the Government
wage —two-pound a year—for
them was raised, it was natural
for us to keep on those whc* cared
to stay, and make up the extra
wages in commodities.”
“I cannot imagine why you
are worrying?”
“It seems now as if I had built
a ihouse of cards, a house made
up of so many lives, all de-
pendent on one thing—so that,
if the lowest card on which all
depends is taken away, the house
collapses.”
“Be more explicit, my poor
child.”
“Oh, my dear! The whole
welfare of our household depends
on one thing—the will of our
servants to work—and they
won’t work! They won’t work!
And my house of cards topples
down.”
And Mrs. McCree gave her
husband a vivid thumbnail
sketch of her interview with Mr.
Turtle.
“Cook-Teresa and Mrs. Cog
are in the seventies and Old Ike’s
fifty and Mr. Turtle’s eighty-
seven and Man Thomas, thougfy
he looks so robust, has only one
leg, and here are all these people
dependent on us in their old age
—and grown so proud that they
consider themselves indispen-
sable, and oh, Phineas! They are
demanding a twenty-four-hour
day !”
“What!”
TOLTED out of his calm, Mr.
** McCree put down his book.
“The ingratitude!”
“Oh, no, not ingratitude,
dear!
“They don’t understand that
the little bit of extra work they
do lets me save the money to
keep the household going. We
have not a penny in the bank
because every farthing goes back
into costs. If none of our
servants will work we must
engage more labor —and that will
rob our profits.”
Mrs. McCree moved across to
the window, just such another
fishmonger’s dream as the kitchen
window had been, for the rain
still tumbled down in droning,
splashing torrents, and except
for the green patch that marked
the boundaries of the Mallow’s
Marsh drainage-system, one fiat
sheet of water stretched as far
as the eye could see. The Razor-
back hills were lost in cloud.
The rector’s wife pulled the
blind up and down, a habit she
had when disturbed in mind, and
of course the tassel slipped out
of her fingers, and the blind
rolled up to the top of the sash
with a thrip. After which even
more rain could be seen pouring
down from that overturned
bucket, the sky. ’
She could more clearly see
on her small domain ; the cows,
back to back, their calves skip-
ping round them, the hogs enjoy-
ing themselves in the potato-
patch. The hens, dangerously
seated, had withdrawn to roost
in the chicken-house. There was
not a leaf left on any of the
orchard-trees, the grapevines and
the passionfruit-vines and the
vegetables had all been beaten
flat into the earth, and the stand-
ing cornfield looked as if Nero
had walked through it.
It was one of those dreadful
moments when the whole earth
seemed to be an enemy. To Mrs.
McCree this miserable spectacle
was heightened by the defection
of her young daughter-in-law,
now Mrs. Beaupre.
“To remarry, not eight months
after Gussie’s death! To send
the poor children to boarding-
schools! To drive away from
the rectory smiling, and waving
a dry pocket-handkerchief! In
a smart new phaeton, with a high-
stepping horse, and a brand-new
husband! Oh, how could she?
And not a word since from any
of them! ”
This, Mrs. McCree felt was the
unkindest cut of all.
But she was an incorrigible
optimist.
She spanned her neat waist
with complacent fingers, and
craned at herself in the misty
pier-glass ; her immense bustle,
With its frills, bows, gaugings,
flounces, made her look more
like a centauress than a woman ;
but her silhouette pleased her.
Catching sight of the stiffly
starched procession of four
o Continued on page 23)


T he red satin eiderdocm
By Fudith
wright
IN late autumn and in the
still clear days of pleasant
winter, the mullet begin to
come in, and after them the
other fish, each in their season.
Shoal after shoal, day after day,
they press on up the river and
into the chain of lakes; it is
spawning-time.
Down at the river mouth the
nets are out from them, and the
fishermen work day and night;
again and again the nets are
filled, but however many are
caught, more slip through. They
come upriver with the tides, past
the ranks of sombre mangroves
and the white paperbark swamps,
into the lakes; looking down
from the fishing-boats, you can
see their advance in thrusting
half-circles, like the lines of
foam rounding on a beach at the
surf’s edge. They act as the sea
does, driving on up the lakes
higher and higher until they
reach their upper limit, and the
last shallow wave of them thins
out and loses itself where the
tide-water no longer salts the
lake.
Then Banarah, the desultory
settlement of a few houses at
the lake-edge, loses its laziness
and is alight with activity. The
Risdon boys come back from
their seasonal work of shearing
or cane-cutting and mend their
boats and nets ; the little sawmill
on which Banarah depends for
the rest of the year is left
deserted. Along the ragged
paperbark jetty and the white
sandy beach the nets hang drying
on their frames while the fish
are packed, then are gathered up
and thrown back into the boats
that set off, as soon as the cases
are full, to gather in more. The
Risdons, the Marshalls, Jack
Dockett and old Ben have no
time to shave, scarcely time to
sleep, so that at the end of the
season their eyes stare over their
hollow cheeks and their beards
are inches long.
When the fish are in you
would think Banarah’s people
full of a vivid irritable energy.
The t women’s faces are sharp
and urgent, their hands are pink
and raw from packing the cases
of fish and ice, their voices have
an eager scolding note. The few
children, coming back in the
empty fish-truck from the
school eight miles away, are
driven into the work or set to
mend nets and tie floats. Even
at night, when the lake’s evening
colors have faded into luminous
black, and the one street-light
sways with the paperbark it
hangs from, lighting a circle of
sandy road in front of the post-
office store, the women are
restless. They peer out at the
lights far off over the lake, where
the boats are anchored off the
banks, or pad in their sandshoes
or bare feet along the white
road and talk low-toned, not to
wake the children, over their
sagging, unpainted picket-fences.
Soon the boats will be in again,
the men must change their wet
clothes and snatch what sleep
they can, the fish must be un-
loaded and packed, the nets
attended to. Banarah’s atmos-
phere is eager and fretful as the
dry cool weather.
But summer is lazy, lonely,
steam-heated and ridden with
sandflies and mosquitoes. Most
of the men have gone again,
except for old- Ben, who has the
pension now and needn’t go
shearing or cane-cutting any
more, and Jack Dockett, who
stays to look after the boats and
makes a meagre summer-living
out of a few rickety flats and
cabins at the lake-edge. The mill
has work for only three or four
men ; sometimes it has no work
at all. Mrs. Risdon hides in her
big veranda’d house on its high
stilts behind the bamboos and
the frangipani; the Helmers at
the store try to make the money
last as long as it can, for their
takings have fallen below their
needs for living; the few summer
visitors row inexpertly along the
lake shore and their children
scream in the warm shallow
water.
THERE is only one house at
Banarah that is not changed
by the round of the seasons. It
stands across the other side of the
headland, half a mile from the
settlement, close by the long
beach that curves round and
vanishes into a shallow of mud
and mangroves not far off. Its
slabs are scaling and whitened,
the yellow cat’s-claw vine that
scrambles over it holds it, prob-
ably, from falling. Near by is
the wreck of an old jetty, and
any day you can see, creeping
along its sagging timbers with the
sinewy caution of a ragged black
cat, Kate Anderson, the woman
whom Banarah knows as the
Widow.
There she stoops and rises,
lowering her crab-pots or lifting
them out and casually dropping
the big blue mud-crabs into an
old creel. Her blue dungarees
are threadbare with age, and her
feet, brown and cracked with the
"salt water, have forgotten the
feel of shoes. It is ten years since
the Widow was last in a town;
her head is turned, Banarah
tells you. Ah, poor thing! It
was in the big cyclone she lost
him.
You wouldn’t think the lake
could be dangerous, to look at
it now; it lies like a long
stretched web of blue silk,
catching the shadow of the high
hills on the other side, reflecting
the pale trunks and dark leaves
of the mangroves so gently ; the
fishermen tell you it goes no
deeper than ten feet anywhere in
the six miles’ lengtji of it. But
that’s where the danger comes in.
Whipped up by those big" winds
—eighty miles an hour and more
they come, with the rain like
gravel thrown at you—the waves
rear up so high that the lake-
bottom shows white in between
them ; a boat caught wrong way
on can break her back on the
sand as easy as that; and that
was what happened to Roly
Anderson, at the beginning of the
fishing season, and the boy with
him.
It was hard on Kate, you may
depend on it, but she never
showed it; no, Mrs. Dockett
said, she never let a tear fall.
She’s never mentioned his name,
since, nor the boy’s. Only
sometimes, particularly in the
evenings, or when the wind gets
up in the rainy season, and the
lake —instead of letting its little
waves fall on the rocks and the
sand like lips nibbling and
kissing, with a soft hiss that
rises sometimes to a smack and
a splash—begins to roar quietly
into the beach like the sound of
the wind itself rising, the Widow
gets a restless fit.
Down she comes, then, to see
Mrs.- Dockett; long and thin and
bony, grey as an eel, she stands
at Mrs. Dockett’s door, and the
summer visitors in the flats (if
there are any left now that the
weather’s turned) cluster
stealthily at their windows to
watch. She waves her arms at
Mrs. Dockett. “Thief!” she
screams. “Why don’t you make
him give it back? I know he’s
got it; he’s making money out
of it hand over fist, day after
day out there with it. It’s my
boat, I tell you. Jack Dockett’s
a thief and always was.”
Poor Mrs. Dockett can only
shake her head. “She never
mentions him, nor the boy. Just
this she’s got in her poor head;
once she had a boat and now
it’s gone. Sometimes she thinks
the Risdons stole it, sometimes
it’s old Ben. Poor Kate; and
she won’t let any of us inside
her door. Screams at us ; orders
us off the place. Calls us a
pack of thieves. She leaves her
crabs at the gate there; Jack
picks them up; L buy her bread
for her, meat, any little thing 1
reckon she might eat —she don’t
eat much; we put it there when
we take her crabs away. That’s
how she lives. Yes, we’re real
sorry for her; but what can we
do? You see, she’s scarcely fit
to talk to, is she now?”
The summer visitors shake
their heads ; she isn’t. As for
Mrs. Dockett, the smallest child
of them all knows her. A kinder
soul you wouldn’t want, though
when the fish are coming in she
sometimes puts the rough edge
of her tongue on Jack, just to
keep him up to it. They know,
too, that those crabs can’t fetch
much; not enough to keep the
Widow alive, however little she
might eat. Mrs. Dockett’s
grocery-bill is just that much
heavier, when the crab-pots are
light on.
Poor Mrs. Dockett is senti-
mental ; watching the Widow as
she strides along the beach, her
sudden gestures, her clenched
fists and drooping head, Mrs.
Dockett’s eyes are full of tears.
But the rest of Banarah gives
her no more than a passing
glance. Ought to be put away
somewhere; she’ll do someone
in one day, I shouldn’t wonder.
Only one thing the Widow had
in the house that she valued,
Mrs.V Dockett sometimes told
the summer visitors. Just before
the big cyclone, Roly Anderson
went to town with a load of fish
—it was before the Board, that
was; he sold them at a good
price, better than he expected,
being early in the season, and he
bought her a present. It was a
red satin eiderdown, and not a
suitable thing for the climate at
all, but he’d taken a fancy to
it, and there it was. She showed
it all round the township; it
was a real pretty thing, had
birds on it worked in silks, and
flowers and that.
Well, it was that very week
he was killed; they found him
in the mangroves over the other
side, and half of the boat, and
the boy not far off. It was the
first present he’d given her since
she was married.
And there it is still, because
I saw it, one time I went in ;
she’d turned her ankle and we
wondered what was wrong,
finding no crabs for two days.
There it was clean and nice as
when she got it. “Look at my
pretty eiderdown,” she says to
me, just like when she showed
it to me first. But the rest of the
house —well, you wouldn’t keep
a dog in it. Funny—isn’t it?
"DANARAH never grows; few
people come, the children
when they grow up don’t settle
there but go somewhere else,
for there isn’t enough fishing
to keep more than five or six
families even in the season, and
the roads are not good enough
for tourists. So the changes,
when they come, are made either
by time or by the weather.
When the cyclone came last
year, the township was so
shaken-up that now you’d
hardly know it for the same
place.
To begin with, the trees went.
Those lovely paperbarks on the
white beaches, where the lake
came up in its six-inch tide right
to their feet, so that on a calm
day they stood there double,
every leaf reflected and their
white ragged trunks moving up
and down on the wavelets (you
should have seen the sunset re-
flected through them in the
lake) —all of them went. One
smashed in the roof of the store
and made a mess of the house
too. The Helmers had to rebuild
it; luckily they came into a bit
of money just then, and they’ve
put up quite a nice little fibro
shop there now.
The jetties went; they lie in
a tangle on the beach. The water
came up so high it killed old
Ben’s pineapple-plantation and
washed away two of Dockett’s
cabins. As for the roads—it was
days and days before the first
truck got through with bread
and mail. Banarah was lost,
quite lost, for a week; it might
as well not have been there at
all, it was a piece cut off from
the world, and as Mrs. Helmer
said, “If the Lord had chosen
to end it all we never would have
known.”
“My goodness, Mrs. Dockett,”
said the visitors, looking at all
that had happened to Banarah
since they were last there. “What
a time you must have had!”
“Ah,” said Mrs. Dockett,”
was poor Jack that had the worst
of it. The only man in Banarah
at the time, unless you count
old Ben ; all those boats to look
after, and you can see we’ve lost
four out of the dozen and three
stove in that badly they’ll take
months to mend if ever they’re
worth it. And then rescuing
the Widow . .
When a cyclone begins—after
the calm and steaming heat is
over —there springs up a wicked
little intermittent wind. The
trees become restless ; you can
feel their terror. Then it in-
creases, the rain begins, small
and hard, the cloud tears over
thicker and thicker, duller and
duller. The houses and trees
begin to groan; somewhere a
rattle begins, and you have an
uneasy feeling that it’s the roof
beginning to strip. The pressure
gets worse until you hear the
first crack, see the first branch
travel overhead . . .
AS for poor Jack Dockett, he
began by dragging all the
boats up the beach above tide-
level, and that was no light job
either for a man with this and
that wrong with him, like Jack
Dockett has. But he soon saw
that wouldn’t be enough, and
out he went again, wearing
nothing but shorts and his long
boots, for it wasn’t possible to
keep dry in any case, and
dragged them further yet, and
then further until they were
right up on the road and tied to
the front fences; and there, he
said, they’ll have to take their
chance because there’s work to
be done on the house, now.
So he dragged, stones up on
to the roof of the flats and tied
ropes across, in the dark, because
the lights had gone long since and
a hurricane-lantern drowned as
soon as you took it outside.
Then he went along the road to
Helmer’s place, because Helmer
was away and Mrs. Helmer was
well-known to be nervous in a
wind.
By this time the waves were
reaching the road and the spray
blowing off them would cut you
like a knife; and as he reached
the Helmers down came that big
paperbark and nearly cut the
place in two. Nothing to do but
to get Mrs. Helmer out and down
to the flats. There was old Ben,
further down the road, busy
building a kind of breakwater
to keep the lake out of his pine
apples; a lot of good that was,
but he kept on at it all night and
he was no use to Jack at all.
The boats were nearly afloat
again, and he pulled them right
up and lashed them sideways to
the fences so they wouldn’t bash
them down as the waves lifted
them.
Inside, Mrs. Dockett and Mrs.
Helmer tried to make a cub of
tea, .only the wind blew spray
and rain down the flue and put
the fire out as they lighted it.
“Look at the cabins, Jack,” said
Mrs. Dockett, “for God’s sake
look at the cabins.” You could
see in the bit of light from the
window that one of them was
lifting up and down like the
boats, and as Jack ran down to
it it crumpled up like so much
brown paper; well, it was only
made of that cheap plywood,
but it was a loss just the same.
The water was reaching up under
the rest, but you can’t drag a
cabin up a hill like you can a
boat; so he gave them a look
and started off for Risdon’s to
see how the house was standing
up to it, and Mrs. Risdon too.
It was while he was up there
that the worst of it began. The
wind sounded as though the
whole world was letting loose
one long yell; trees cracked
like gunfire, the lake stood up
on end and pranced like a team
of wild horses. Jack left Mrs.
Risdon in her kitchen to face
it out. She had a bottle of
brandy there so he reckoned
she wasn’t as bad off as some,
and she was getting into it
steady when he left; and back
he ran by the top road, because
the beach road wasn’t there any
more. Then he thought of the
Widow, round on the other
beach where the wind was
coming from, and he made his
way there by some means or
other across the fallen trees —
with more falling as he went,
mind you.
There was water everywhere,
and at first' he thought the
(i Continued, on next pass)
FIRELIGHT & KETTLE-
DRUM
Under the coolibahs
In their grey singlets,
Shearers are dancing with
Barmaids in ringlets.
Firelight and kettledrum,
Fiddler and trombone:
Here are pretty girls to dance
With anyone who’s handsome.
Jenny dances to the moon
With a tray of schooners.
Put one down for Jenny, boys,
And her winter bloomers.
But the ringer takes his shears
And a holt of Jenny,
Sheep-oh! Wool away!
And she hasn’t any.
Jenny cautions, “Have a care!”
Hunting for her mirror.
“I don’t love you any more.
There, you gay deceiver!”
Then hey! for the rouseabout
And hey! for the ringer;
And hey! for the man to shout
For the next singer.
Under the coolibahs
In their grey singlets,
Shearers are dancing with
Barmaids in ringlets.
a.c.t
DAVID CAMPBELL.


WlllMi
9, ■
%
A
S 3
*
rr
S§
On show now! the brilliant
new
aUh
4-CYL. WYVERN 6-CYL. VELOX
New beauty of styling . . . new
interior comfort... new engineer-
ing features . . . new steering ease
. . . new driving vision ! Yes, the
two exciting new Vauxhall saloons
are motoring news.
These beautiful newcomers com-
bine the proud heritage of over 50
years of engineering leadership
with a new conception of graceful
styling, luxury, comfort and safety.
With the new Vauxhalls you have
a choice of the “happy medium”
4 cylinder 15.63 h.p. O.H.V.
Wyvern engine or the vivid 6 cyl-
inder 23.44 h.p. O.H.V. Velox
engine, both ‘over-square’ design
for greater efficiency and longer
life.
Vauxhall also brings you proven
integral body construction, con-
trolled synchromesh gears, ‘bal-
Prices : Wyvern Saloon £920
plus Sales Tax.
Velox Saloon £9BO
plus Sales Tax.
anced-ride’ suspension and dis-
tinctive new interior refinements.
For beauty of styling, engineering
excellence and lasting value, you
must see the new “happy medium”
Vauxhall Wyvern and the vivid
Vauxhall Yelox.
Ask your Vauxhall dealer about
the G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire
Purchase arrangements. Ask your
dealer, too, about the built-for-
Vauxhall “Air-chief” Car Radio.
The beautiful new Vauxhall interior seats
5 or 6 in comfort . . . features colourful
new styling, improved driving vision, and
handsome new instrument panel as
practical as it is beautiful.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S
BRISBANE • SYDNEY 9 MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
Sold and serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
LTD,
9 PERTH
VP2/33
maids, going in single-file to the
kitchen, and visible through the
window ; she set her cap straight,
and coaxed up the lisse frill
round the high collar, and
peeped through the window
again, to see through the tire-
less waterfall that slid and
bubbled down the glass, Mr.
Peachy in a sack, Mr. Turtle
in twp sacks, Man Thomas in
three sacks (for he took care of
himself) and Boy Jonathan
resplendent in a horse-blanket,
all converging towards the
kitchen.
It is to be presumed that the
wise sayings called Proverbs are
based on experience, that, during
the centuries that they have been
current, men have found them
to be true. Mrs. McCree ran
through a number of such com-
forting saws. “It is darkest
before dawn.” “Every cloud has
a silver lining.” “A merry heart
goes all the way,” and so on, and
she was drawing much comfort
from them when her eye caught
the envelope Mr. McCree was
using as a bookmark.
With the natural curiosity
which every letter inspires, she
leant over the desk and turned it
face up. It was addressed to her.
She reversed it. It had not been
opened.
“When did this come?” she
asked, idly taking it up.
T>HINEAS, immersed in the
A Caroline age, said, without
glancing at her, “Oh, is that the
letter the post brought a few
days ago? I forgot to give it to
you.”
Mrs. McCree, having been
properly trained in such matters,
opened her letter with the ivory
paper-cutter.
Her eyes, which, during her
quiet moments in the “snuggery,”
had somewhat regained their
natural warm hazel tones, again
flared up into the orange-yellow
flames which excitement brought
to them.
She read it once through and
said “Hah!”
She read it twice through and
said “Ah, hah!”
With a look of triumph she
let herself out of the “snuggery”
and marched into the kitchen.
There they all were! The nine
mutineers! The sluggards! The
slothful! And she had them
all in the hollow of her hand!
To everyone’s astonishment
she began her interview with
them by apologising to Mr.
Turtle.
“I am afraid, Mr. Turtle, that
having been shocked by what
you had to say, I was a bit
hasty with you.’”
“Shocked me,” Mr. Turtle
answered, shuffling his immense
feet. “I didn’t look to hear you
talk like that, no, never.”
“Ah, well!” She opened her
letter. “I dare say you all know
Carefree Farm?”
There were murmurs of assent.
It was the neatest, most
fruitful, best-built, and best-con-
ditioned property in the whole
district. There were a small
vineyard, a delightful orchard,
some fields as neat as pocket-
handkerchiefs, a barn that was
quite famous ; Wells-street had
easy access to the Nepean River,
yet was just high enough above
floodwater-mark to be perpetu-
ally safe from floods. It had,
besides, a few neat rows of bear-
ing citrus-trees—those busy trees
that flower and fruit perpetually.
Of course, as they allowed their
imaginations to dwell on it, each
man and woman there pictured
the “model” weatherboard
cottages in which the work-
people of Carefree Farm were
housed.
Widow’s house had gone out
into the lake altogether. Then
he made out there was still a
bit of the roof left, but that
was flapping in the wind and at
any minute it might sail off on
a gust and cut him in halves. So
he ran for it, wading through
lashing lake-water nearly thigh-
deep over the rocks, till he
reached what was left of the
house. There sat the Widow in
the dark —so he made out when
he called her —on her bed, with
just the two walls left of her
house and the roof about to
fall —in or out, depending on the
wind at the time.
He gave her a call to come
out; but she wouldn’t, so he ran
inside and there she was. Well,
he isn’t a strong man, Jack, and
his boots were that full of water
it was all he could do to get
about, himself, but somehow or
other he got the Widow out of
that old death-trap of a house
and dragged her up to the head-
land and over to the other beach,
she fighting and screaming at
him all the time. I don’t know
how he did it in the dark, with
the trees across the way and the
water pouring through the rocks
like so many waterfalls, and the
wind blowing them on to their
knees as they struggled together,
but he did, said Mrs. Dockett,
and never did I see a face like
his when he dragged her in. I
tell you, he was near done-for.
66 AND she was all right?”
asked the visitors, look-
ing at the headland where there
was now no roof showing where
the Widow’s roof had shown,
but only a battered green Army
tent pitched all awry.
Mrs. Dockett sighed. “She
don’t seem much the worse ; not
so much the worse as Jack is,
anyway ; strained his heart, the
doctor says. How he’ll get on
with the nets this season I don’t
know. But there, poor thing,
I think she feels it. Do you
know what she was shouting at
him, all the while he dragged
her along? ‘Red satin eider-
down,’ she was saying ; ‘let me
go, I want my red satin eider-
down,’ and she was fighting like
a cat to go back and get it,
though the rest of the house
went just after they’d left it,
and God knows what happened
to that eiderdown, we’ve never
found track nor trace of it.”
Jack Dockett, sitting in the
yard mending nets, did not pro-
vide much foothold for hero-
worship to the summer visitors,
being bald and rather peevish
and inclined to make much of
his strained heart. But they
could not help being impressed,
as they prowled through the
wreckage of Banarah and in-
spected the stove-in boats. For
all that, things were coming back
to normal; even the tree-stumps
were sprouting, where the trees
had not blown down irrecover-
ably.
There lay the lake, calm and
blue ; still evening came down
and the creamy full-moon wafted
like a balloon up from the man-
groves on the eastern side. All
was peaceful, greyed with gentle
colors.
Down the road from the head-
land the Widow came stalking,
bare-footed and wild-haired.
They looked at her with fear-
ful interest.
Outside Jack Dockett’s yard
she stopped and shouted. “Why
ddn’t you give it back? Thief, I
know you’ve got it. You’ve
hidden it in a cupboard. Give
me back my red satin eider-
down.”
“See,” Dockett said.
“She’s forgotten all about the
boat; now it’s nothing but that
eiderdown. Never a word about
Roly or the boat. Poor Kate;
poor thing.”
“Ah, the silly old coot,” said
Jack Dockett.
Mr. Peachy thought of the
bailiff’s neat two-storied stone-
house, standing in its own tree-
shaded meadow a mile from the
farm. Mr. Turtle remembered
that over the stables there was a
line of what might almost be
called “bachelor-quarters,” they
were so comfortable ; so up-to-
date.
Abigail the Orphan pictured
herself and dear Mrs. Cog
installed in the four-roomed
cottage beside the perfectly
appointed laundry; Jinny' and
Millie, the two new maids,
mentally withdrew their notice,
But it was on Cook-Teresa’s
face that the clearest look of
dreamy ecstasy, of infinite yearn-
ing, showed ; she was thinking of
the handy kitchen-range. >
Why had Mrs. McCree
mentioned Carefree Farm?
They wondered.
She herself had visions danc-
ing before her yellow eyes as
she said in an offhand manner,
“Captain and Mrs. Beaupre have
bought Carefree Farm, and made
the rector and me a presen; of
it; and we shall be happy if all
our old servants will accompany
us when we move in there in
about three months’ time.”
Bliss showed in the eight faces
so wistfully regarding her.
“But,” Mrs. McCree went on,
firmly and severely, “I hate
sloth ! It is by far the deadliest
of the Seven Deadly Sins! And
we must have no sluggards on
our new property. Nature works
all the time, and so should we! ”
“Oh, come, Ma’am! ” Mr.'
Peachy fondly protested.
“Indeed we should! Do you
think the rector in all these years
has once omitted his recitation
of the Hours? Day and night?
You know he hasn’t!” Relax-
ing, she continued, “There’s
money in natural increase, in the
work Nature does that we don’t
pay for, and I dare say wages
may go up at Carefree Farm.
But anyone who does not care to
do what I consider an honest
day’s work”—and she looked
meaningly round—“may stay on
here and take service with the
curate, who will be coming to
lighten the rector’s duties!”
“Well, Ma’am,” Mr. Peachy
said handsomely, “I’ve never
known you defeated yet, and if
you don’t run after us with the
clock, like, and if you would
please to realise that our guess
about the time may not be always
quite to the tick of the hour, as
you might say, we will give’ up
our claim to a twenty-four-hour
day, and treat time as you treat
the ham, on a cut-and-come-
again method, and let there be no
questions about minutes and
suchlike trifles.”
“I agree to that,” Mrs. McCree
said benignantly “and you will
be my bailiff, Mr. Peachy, and
just report to me about results,
and I’ll leave the details and’
general work of the farm in
your hands. I must go and let
the rector know that you will be
kind enough to wait on, and I
must tell him how good a son-in-
law he has—you might send in
an egg-flip, with a stick in it,
Cook-Teresa, in ten minutes,
please. And as you are all
assembled, and the weather
makes work impossible, perhaps
you could celebrate this
auspicious occasion by drinking
our health.”
And Mrs. McCree bowed and
withdrew,
Did the sun shine?
It did not.
Did the bishop make the dear
old rector of Mallow’s Marsh a
canon of Sydney cathedral?
He did not.


•a
m#
«
!Hy advice 1# ‘tyou.j
Excuse me for just a moment. There are one or two important
things I’d like to say and I’m, sure you’ll be interested.
I want to introduce Crusader’s new 1955-56 range of modern
suitings. I’ve seen some pretty attractive cloths in my time.
But, for quality, weave, distinctive patterns and pleasing
shades, these top them all.
For 47 years, the Crusader Mills have been producing cloth that
compares more than favourably with the world’s best. This
year, however, they have excelled themselves.
Using only Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, they have created a wide,
rich range of suitings, every one of
which is guaranteed pure wool,
guaranteed to give years t of hard
wear, and guaranteed never to fade
or shrink. In other words, guar-
anteed quality.
So, if you want the smartest suit
in town, take my advice . . . ask
your tailor to show you the new
Crusader Pattern Book.
SpaouxL
Selecttorv
DOUBLE WARP
DOUBLE WEFt
Crusaict
iimnkt CTlotH
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
C 5.115
Missing Friends
WOULD any next-of-kin of ANINE
THEODORE (also known as THEODORA)
HANSEN, {nee TALLACKSON), bom in
Grimstadt, Norway, and widow of GAB-
RIEL ENERVAL HANSEN, formerly of
Stavanger, Norway, later of Melbourne,
Victoria, and GoomaUing, Western Aus-
tralia, please communicate with the
undersigned.—JACKSON McDONALD,
CONNOR & AMBROSE, Solicitors, 55 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia ?
WILL any person knowing the where-
abouts of EDWARD KAVANAGH (age
72 years), formerly of Wirrabara, last
heard of at Grafton, New South Wales, in
1921, please communicate with the under-
signed.—FAßMEßS’ CO - OPERATIVE
EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES LIMITED,
36 Franklin Street, Adelaide? S.A.
GUARD
AifltU'CZs
PROTECTA j/<
Si>nl-StU RegUtthltiff
TILL
Suitable for every type of business l« record!
*ll Sale*. Credits. Parent* etc. Strengly bollt.
pleasing Id appearance. Send for full detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.LuL
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Ply. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Son» Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Au*t.)
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A • G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. p * Maaaget.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Slreel * OJ,u “ 1
Branches in all States .
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
VV ants
Words of parody on Henry Law-
son’s poem “The Captain of the
Push.”—6os3.
To buy copy of Dean Inge’s
memorial to his daughter, who died
in childhood, which may have been
titled The Story of Paula. —6052.
To buy The Old Red Sandstone by
Hugh Miller.—6osl.
To buy copy of Hospital Sketches
(1863) by Louisa M. Alcott, a collec-
tion of letters describing her work in
hospitals during the American Civil
War.—6oso.
Copies of newspapers and maga-
zines giving criticisms of Ruth Park’s
The Harp in the South, Xavier Her-
bert’s Capricornia, Ernestine Hill’s
My Love Must Wait and Vance
Palmer’s The Swayne Family— 6o46.
To buy copy of J. B. Cooper’s
Victorian Commerce, 1834-1934.
—6047.
Information Sought
Some information on Australian
humorous writer Thomas E. Spencer?
Born in London on Dec. 30, 1845,
he came to Australia at 18, returned
soon after to England and came out
again in 1875, to become a success-
ful builder and contractor. A genial
man full of kindliness and wit, he
began to contribute verse and prose-
sketches to The Bulletin and other
journals; one verse in particular,
“How M’Dougal Topped the Score”
was very popular and was included
in the Bulletin Reciter (1901). A
collection of his works, How
M’Dougal Topped the Score and
Other Verses and Sketches, was pub-
lished in 1906. This was followed by
Budgeree Ballads in 1908, reprinted
under the title How Doherty Died in
1910, and four volumes of humorous
sketches —The Surprising Adventures
of Mrs. Bridget McSweeney (1906),
A Spring Cleaning and Other Stories
(1908), The Haunted Shanty and
Other Stories (1910) and That Droll
Lady (1911). In more serious vein
was Bindawalla: An Australian Story
(1912). His humor is very much on
the surface, but it was popular and
he had a big following. In his later
life he was an arbitrator in industrial
disputes, and presided over wages-
boards (1907-11). He died on May 6,
1911.
* * * #
Names o.f some prominent British
Quakers, particularly in trade and
commerce ?
George Fox (1624-91), founder of
the movement; William Penn, after
whom Pennsylvania is named, one of
Fox’s first disciples; another disciple,
Robert Barclay (1648-90), known as
the Apologist because of his Apology,
which became the standard intellec-
tual statement of Quakerism for 200
years. John Bright, foremost advo-
cate of Free Trade; Elizabeth Fry,
the prison-reformer; Joseph Sturge,
corn-merchant, railway-pioneer and
newspaper-proprietor, and prominent
in the anti-slavery campaign; Ben-
jamin Huntsman, inventor of cast
steel. Several important British
commercial and banking families
were, and in most cases still are,
Quakers: the banking Gurneys of
Norwich, the Lloyds and the Bar-
clays, the Frys, the Reckitts of
Bristol, the Cadburys, etc.
* * * *
CO Particulars of the Clunies-Ross
family’s associations with the Cocos
Islands ? (2) Has there been any
change in their position since Aus-
tralia’s assumption of sovereignty
oyer the islands ?
(1) The Cocos, or Keeling, Islands,
discovered by a Captain Keeling in
1609, were owned at the beginning
of the 19th century by one Alexander
Hare, Who left in 1825, possession of
the islands then passing to John
Clunies-Ross. The islands were
declared a British possession in 1857;
in 1878, they were placed under the
control of the Governor of Ceylon,
in 1882 under the Governor of the
Straits Settlements and in 1903 were
annexed to the Straits Settlements.
In 1886 the Clunies-Ross family
became the acknowledged landlords
of Cocos, their position being con-
firmed by an indenture granted by
Queen Victoria through the Governor
of the Straits Settlements. Subject
to conditions allowing her Majesty
to resume land in the public interest,
such as providing for the establish-
ment of a telegraph-station, and pre-
venting alienation of the land to other
persons without the assent of the
Crown, the lease was granted to
George Clunies-Ross and his heirs
in perpetuity. (2) No.
* * * *
(7) When was the first Masonic
lodge founded in Australia ? (2)
Some information on the Royal
family’s associations with Free-
masonry? (5) Is former U-S. Presi-
dent Truman a Mason ?
(1) The date recognised as the date
of the foundation of Freemasonry
in Australia (according to the
Australian Encyclopedia ) is August
12, 1820, when, on a warrant by
the Irish Grand Lodge, the Aus-
tralian Social Lodge was established.
(Earlier, in 1803, Sir Henry Browne
Hayes and others had attempted to
establish a Masonic lodge, but it was
prohibited by Governor King.) June
21, 1828, is the date of the establish-
ment of English Freemasonry in
Australia, when the Cumberland
(afterwards Sydney) Lodge was
warranted by the United Grand
Lodge of England ( English-Speaking
Freemasonry, by Sir Alfred Robbins).
(2) From 1782 to 1813 their Royal
Highnesses the Duke of Cumberland,
the Prince of Wales and the Duke of
Sussex were Grand Masters of the
English craft; from 1737 to 1907
some 16 English princes of the Royal
blood joined the brotherhood. King
Edward VII, who was Grand Master
of the craft while Prince of Wales,
resigned on becoming King, consider-
ing that “it would be convenient
that he should follow the example of
George IV, who when he became
King resigned the same Post”
(Robbins). George V was not a
Mason, but his uncles and his elder
brother (the Duke of Clarence) were.
George VI was a Mason, as is the
Duke of Windsor. (3) Yes; he’s a
Past Grand Master of the Masons of
Missouri.
Brief Answers
H.R.W.: (1) Population of Poland
in 1946 was 23,929,800. (2) No avail-
able figures. (3) 121,131 square
smiles. (4) Yes G.S.: Write
N.S.W. Lands Department, Loftus-
street, Sydney J.H.: If the land
was bought outright, the purchase
should not be affected by the lease
referred to. Write Tasmanian Lands
Department, Hobart... .M.McK.:
Information required on (1) Lord
Mayors, (2) police-inspectors is not
readily available. (3) See answer to
appear as soon as possible under
Information Sought Ferra: Tfie
Commonwealth Government pro-
hibited the export of iron-ore from
July 1, 1938. There is no ban on the
export of pig-iron Pindar:
Neither Angus and Robertson’s nor
Dymock’s has any such books avail-
able. Inquire at secondhand-
booksellers, or, if you wish merely
to consult a book, your city’s public
library may be able to help... .1.1.:
Unable to trace a painter of that
name. Nearest we can find is
Goltfried von Hoven (1868-1921), a
landscape-painter of Italy, Germany
and Holland... .M.E.H.: No
information on the legend.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
P.S.L.: We are introduced to several
hundred Barney Brannigans every
year—all tough guys with hearts of
gold P.F.W.: It got at least
within cooee-call of the printer’s
devil... .J.C.H.: We are sure that
you are capable of something better
than the stereotyped henpecked-
husband yarn H.H.M.: Edda is
the fifth runaway wife who has
returned to her husband this week.
....Z.W.: About the oldest plot
in Australian fiction. The only
surprise was that neither of the two
characters did a perish.,. .H.C.M.:
Needs a lot of tidying-up T.K.:
The background is there, but where
is the story?.. . .M.Q.K.: The lions
at Taronga Park, Sydney, declared
that it made a tasty snack S.E.:
Others have climbed those hills
F. Must you make each line
a mile long? A.N.: Yet another
poet in the grip of purple hills —
“calling, calling, calling” E.K.:
“The Orange Blossom Dream” is
definitely not Bulletin material
G. A.J.W. and others: So
many flood poems have flowed into
the Bulletin ottice of late that we
are in danger of being washed out to
sea A.D.C.: All right, we shall
count you blest... .R.S.McK.: Eet
us forget your poetry and concen-
trate on the ornithological questions
raispd. Magpies are undoubtedly
accomplished musicians, but so are
the shrike-thrushes, yellow robins and
thickheads. And what about the
lyrebird, not to mention the reed-
warblers, the honeyeaters and the
bush-larks? ... .8.A.8.: “Wyabarra
now lies, just whitened bone” in the
waste-paper basket, but not alone.
M.E.H.: It was with great
regret that we were unable to find
space for your masterpiece called
“Dead Marines,” beginning with the
lines:
Bottles, bottles, bottles, bottles,
Millions lying there —
Adelaide to Darwin Town — (
Bottles everywhere.
M.T.: Sorry, but it doesn’t even
earn you a packet of smokes
M. 8.: Jim doesn’t quite make the
grade.... P.R.N.E.: We prefer'them
to be about real life P.W.R.: You
know the sea and you have hit upon
a good idea, but the writing is too
slipshod to carry it into print
V. It is best not to try to
cram half a lifetime ifito a short
story G.D.H.: Not permitting
that ghost to haunt our premises
H.C.M.: The little fellows hardly
deserve a pat on the head... .E.J.P. ’•
We have been introduced to many
more amusing, exciting and interest-
ing grandfathers than that old boy.
R.W.: It would be wiser to wait
until a bright idea does occur to you.
G.B.: Could see the end long
before the ship arrived in port
A.V.H.: Lizzie “rushed forward and
vanished into oblivion” —in the
basket..'. .P.R.R.: Give us some-
thing Australian..'. .H.T.H.: Only the
shadow of a yarn... .J.M.F.: More
suited for a women’s paper....
D.G.: We spiked “The Gun”
J.McE.: Not providing a frame for
“Picture of a Girl”... .M.S.N.: The
Prime Minister was ruled out ol
order... .D.W.D.: With a sigh of
relief we came to the end 9! “The
End of it A 11”... .R.W.O’C.: It was
a long jump from the mountain-
crest to the basket, but it landed
safely.... M.McK.: If we felt dis-
posed we could print every week an
additional issue of The Bulletn
devoted entirely to poems entitled
“Australia”... .M.C.H.: Four lines
of the burning question that rankles
your mind:
These mosquitoes on my ankles—
Where do they their tucker find?
When I’m not here, it has me beat,
What in the world the beggars eat.
K.G.: Thanks for the tip, we
shall keep an eye on the dragon
W. : When the average young bloke
is jilted he looks around and finds
himself another girl; but not the
average young poet. He sits down
and writes a sorrowful poem and
sends it to us.-.. .G.R.T.: “Long
After” is too long after the event.
K.M.C.: So sad it was that it
put all the greybeards in the office
on the rum for a week F.McG.:
The humble spud deserves a better
tribute than that D.S.S.: Sorry to
hear about poor Jimmy:—
Our Jimmy, at the boundary fence,
For his dinner ate barbed wire.
We haven’t our Jimmy hence;
He seems to have left the shire.
F.B.: Poem addressed to "The
Literary Editor, General Post Ottice,
Sydney,” somehow found its way
to The Bulletin, -but we hardly
think that it was meant for us.


New Australia?-Yes, If It's Better
Migrants, Good and Bad
By GAVIN CASEY
ONE of the troubles with
us at the moment is that
in the matter of our
New Australians we are
divided into three classes —those
who think the “reffos” respon-
sible for all the crime and
everything wrong about the
place; those who regard any
and every foreigner as a culinary
and cultural missionary
appointed by God to bring
civilisation to us; and, thank
the Lord, the sane minority who
regard them as just people, who
may be geniuses or garrotters,
but about whom you make judg-
ments only as individuals and
after you know them well
enough.
The attitude isn’t pew to me,
for a few years back, when I
was living in the United States
and doing a job that involved
meeting a lot of visiting Aus-
tralians, it was a happy day
when the visitor from home
happened to be one of the sane
third of the population who
could see good and bad in both
their own country, and
America.
The rest —and, I’m afraid, the
majority—either got around
New York with their elbows
and foreheads touching the
ground as they worshipped
everything they saw or heard
about, or else moved from place
to place with their chests in-
flated, bragging and boasting
and disparaging everything in
comparison with its Australian
equivalent.
Because, perhaps, of climate
and the wild Irish in us, there
seems to be a Celtic-Latin streak
in the Australian make-up that
carries us to extremes about a
lot of things, from Test-cricket
to what horse won the Mel-
bourne Cup in 1919; and on
New Australians the judgment
of the majority is positive, not
to say violent, and involves
either scorn and hatred or love
and admiration.
Personally, I feel no inclina-
tion to either love or hate an
ex-Pole or ex-German until I
know him, and I kid myself that
the fact makes me potentially
one of his real friends in this
country, and if an enemy, at
least not one through prejudice
and preconceived ideas.
If the New Australians want
to and can make a New Aus-
tralia I’m with them all the way,
as long as they can convince
me that it will be a better one.
And the old one I remember
wasn’t too bad.
There was, of course, a
Socialist “New Australia” in
Paraguay many years ago
which went off the rails. There
is a ship of the name sailing in
and out of Sydney these days
with immigrants. And there
seems to be a New Australia
well past the pioneering stages
of its development in King’s
Cross, Sydney, and in certain
sections of all our cities.
Thus the question arises: Is
the New Australia better or
worse? And the responses of
the extremists don’t answer it.
Those who say that the only
ideas the foreigners have are
notions for sharp practice in
business, bodgie habits and gory
ways to perform murders
obviously don’t know what
they’re talking about. And
neither do the ones to whom
a swarthy complexion and an
exotic accent seem sure evidence
of eminence and authority in
the arts, the sciences and what
to eat, far beyond what we can
hope to achieve without their
guidance.
It is a strange hangover from
our colonial days, when the
lower ordeifc might growl wrath-
fully and spit in the eye of the
Pommy, but their betters aped,
applauded, and respected the
Englishman merely because he
was English, without requiring
any evidence of personal good-
ness or superiority.
And it is strange how, now,
as then, this peculiar blindness
in one eye afflicts the educated
class of self-styled “intellec-
tuals.” Now, as then, it is also
the horny-handed toiler who,
on the whole, won’t have a bar
of anything that didn’t grow up
in the next street to his.
The sensible third, I’m happy
to say, seems to come about
equally from each of the above-
mentioned classes. But those
who make me sick are the
people who should know better,
rather than the ones who have
never been shown the tracks
that lead away from prejudice.
Without naming any names,
some recent A.B.C. sessions have
made me, and I hope at least
a few other listeners, avoid re-
gurgitation only by the exercise
of great willpower. They have
gone so far in the direction of
apology for our barbarism, lack
of tradition, and lack of
culture that they
have provoked in
me thoughts of
seeking naturali-
sation as an
Abyssinian.
If Henry Law-
son and Joseph
Furphy—to men-
tion only two with
earlier dreams of
a New Australia
could have
heard those
sessions they’d
have exploded in
a manner that
would have made
the Monte Bello
atomic business
seem like a kid
bursting a penny-
balloon.
The “cultured”
morons seem to
accept it as axio-
matic that if a
New Australian
was not in his old life a conductor
of the Budapest orchestra he was
a. renowned Vienna specialist or a
chef who had been compli-
mented and patronised by
Crowned Heads. The uncultured
morons have a touching con-
viction that if the immigrant
wasn’t a jackbooted Nazi he
was a pimp, a spy, a lecher, and,
anyway, the decadent product
°f decadent European cities, as
expert with the knife as he was
inept with his fists.
The immigrants themselves do
not, perhaps, do much to dispel
these ideas. In bygone days we
thought it fine fun when the
Australian soldiery happily
persuaded the girls of foreign
lands that they all belonged to
the squattocracy, with millions
of acres of sheep, cattle,
kangaroos, or goannas. Now,
we naively retain our pleasure
in our international reputation
for ■, “leg - pulling” without
a pparent realisation that other
people can do it, too.
Any New Australian who
doesn’t like his job as a cane-
cutter, or whatever it is, can
look ruefully at the corns on
his hands and lament the great
and wealthy law-practice he
used to have in Berlin, and the
glorious holidays he used to
spend on his father’s wide
estates in Bavaria. The trouble
is that a lot of people believe
him —and most who don’t are
so resentful of his affectation
of superiority that they snarl
“That ! I bet he was an
acting-lance-corporal in Hitler’s
SS.”
There are naturally exceptions,
on our side and theirs, and it
was refreshing some time ago
to read an interview with a
street-cleaner or something of
the sort in Canberra.
This cheerful and honest in-
dividual reported that life in
Australia would do him. He
had been a street-cleaner in his
old country, but the streets had
been dirtier, and he had got
less money for the job.
The foundations of such New
Australia as there is must have
rocked at such a revelation that
somebody less than a landed
gentleman or a noted sculptor
had sneaked into our stream of
immigrants.
But in fact, of course, the
streets of Budapest and Berlin
need cleaning a good deal, some-
body does that work, and it is
from these and their like that
a large part of the immigrants
to Australia must come. Among
them there must be, and are,
some men and women of great
talent and achievement; but even
in the turbulent years since the
war the man with high quali-
fications in some professional
field has been the most likely
to do well enough to stay where
he was, rather than go to a very
distant place where his degrees
and experience might not count.
On the food-front, there is no
doubt that we might do well to
eat less steak-and-eggs and drink
more French onion-soup; but
the question is not as simple as
that. Continental cooking,
though developed to degrees of
subtle delight by the rich and
aristocratic, began with the
peasants—the people who, per-
haps, had little to eat except
onions and turnips,/and had to
make them palatable for seven
days a week. Spaghetti, for
instance, is an admirable accom-
paniment to a meal occasionally,
or even a good meal now and
again, but as a staple diet it is
a poor substitute for food. Our
barbarous steak - and - eggs are
better.
In some parts of Europe the
flour-and-water which is spag-
hetti is a most important item
of diet, eaten with “meat-sauces”
instead of meat. The Italians
who have lately been disparag-
ing our salami wouldn’t want
much of the strange sausage
varieties at all if they hadn’t been
brought up on them, for they
are basically made, here or in
Europe, of varieties of meat too
poor to be palatable unless
spiced and heavily flavored with
garlic and herbs that disguise
their original insipidity.
Not, as I suggested earlier, that
I can’t enjoy a lump of salami,
or a plate of spaghetti, or even
frogs’-legs or snails if I can get
any. And not, similarly, that I
fail to get pleasure from De
Maupassant or Gorky. But I
still like the taste of steak-and-
eggs, a good meat-pie (almost
as hard to get, these days, as
frogs’-legs), Such Is Life, The
Bulletin, Capricornia and No
Roads Go By.
Our history may be short, but
if we have done so much in so
little time it is a matter for
pride, not apologies. And if we
hope that our future should be
long we will not boast or grow
arrogant, because we’ll be aware
of the pitfalls that lie ahead of
us.
As individuals, our lives are
not very long, either, but unless
they began very recently we
know how good our fellow-
countrymen can be—and how
bad. There is a class of Aus-
tralian that will kick the teeth
out of a corpse, for the sake of
possible gold-fillings—a whining,
pimping, petty - criminal class
that should stop us for ever from
talking about “the decadent
product of decadent European
cities.”
Bernard Shaw once referred
to the Americans as the only
nation extant which had pro-
gressed from barbarism to
decadence without an inter-
vening period of civilisation,
and whether or not that
happened to the Yanks, it could
happen to us. Absorb the
philosophy of the “reffo”-haters
and never reach civilisation at
all; suck in that of the apologists
for our existence and skip it in
the march towards the final
grave.
Since our tendency is to
worship size as well as age, it is
as well to remember that many
of the foreigners came from
countries smaller than, about
the same size as, or little larger
than Australia. If they’re from
the big ones, then they’re from
the nations that have made an
unholy mess of things so far,
promoting at least some sort of
border skirmish and occasionally
a major war for every symphony
they composed. If they’re from
the little ones, we can have a
fellow-feeling, combined with
humble thankfulness that our
geographic location saves us
from getting trampled utterly
into the dirt whenever the big
blokes put the gloves on. And,
of course, that’s the reason
they’re here.
They get homesick. So do
we, even when we’re only in a
State other than the one where
we originated. They produce
devastating arguments against
our way of life, but it is mainly
by picking on the things we
have known or suspected for
years were wrong.
When they have a grip on the
talk, it is as well to assess the
importance of the things they
yell about, instead of merely
feeling ashamed.
The Hungarians had music
and folk-lore in abundance,
ruined castles to delight the eye
of a wrecker, cafds where you
could drink all night, if that
happened to be your mood.
But they had not the moral
force to resist the Nazi ideology
with true vigor, even before
Hitler overwhelmed them
physically. Maybe that would
have been preferable to Vienna
schnitzel, or even a lot of brave
stories of the past which seemed
to justify lethargy in the present.
I’m not suggesting, I' hope,
that God endowed Australians
with certain special virtues, an
idea which is held about them?
selves by far too many peoples.
But accidents of geography and
history gave us possession of a
continent on which we have
done a reasonably good job.
We’ve been brutal and brainless
here and there, but at a surpris-
ing number <?f times and at a
surprising number of places
we’ve had an eye on the future
as well as the immediate want.
In those days I mentioned
earlier, when I was trying to
publicise Australia in the United
States, I used occasionally to
get phone-calls from American
editors who would say, in effect:
“Tell us about this arbitration
system of yours.” What they
really meant was: “Give us
the dope on how to embarrass
John L. Lewis, president of the
Coal Miners’ Union and gun-
holding gangster of American
labor, by pointing out in print
the perfections of a legalistic
system of sorting out industrial
troubles.”
Only really wanting a stick
with which to beat Lewis over
the head, the editors were
generally much dissatisfied when
I told them, as they should have
known: “The arbitration sys-
tem in Australia has not
eliminated industrial trouble.
We have slightly more than you
do. We’d probably have a lot
more without the arbitration
system, because we are less rich
and less obedient. But, however
much arbitration may have
succeeded or failed, it is a social
experiment we are proud to
have made.”
’This usually rocked the Yank
editors, who had expected me
to be as enthusiastic about the
Australian arbitration courts as
they were about the fact that
the Empire State Building was
the tallest in the world. Then
they lost interest, and the
following morning’s editorial
would be about the Situation in
Mexico, or Unrest in Russia
Shows Stalin’s Days Numbered.
But I still think I did the right
thing by Australia.
Similarly, if we hope to do
the right thing by Australia and
the New Australians, there’s
nothing like looking the facts in
the face. Our world, apart from
that of the rabbits or the earth-
worms, is filled with people, and
(<Continued on page 34)


INSURANCE —for your protection-
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £16,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BW 8131 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manag
er.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD EDWARD EVANS late of
Sydney Road North Goulburo Labourer. —
TAKE NOTICE that RENE ALICE LUCY
EVANS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 6 of 1965 upon the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse lor
three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under S. 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 6th day of July
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. CLAYTON
UTZ & COMPANY. Solicitors, 136 Liver-
pool Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PAUL RAYMOND TAYLOR late of
Broken HiII—TAKE NOTICE that LOR-
RAINE MARJORIE TAYLOR has filed
supplemental Petition for Divorce No.
1839 of 1954 on the ground of desertion
for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse and is asking the Court
to exercise its discretion in her favour
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899 If you wish to
defend you may file an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 24th of May 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from LESLIE RUNDLE, 66 King
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Regis-
trar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO HAROLD VICTOR FEAR late of
Burnett and Margaret Streets Mays Hill
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
MAY IRENE FEAR has filed a Petition
No. 2859 of 1954 for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on
or before the First day of July 1955
A copy of the Petition filed herein may
be obtained free of charge from DEGO-
TARDI & PAYK, Solicitors, 263 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
i 11 1
Missiner Friend
Will HARRY S. MATTHEWS, late of
92 Queensberry Street, Melbourne, com-
municate with MESSRS C. B. HUDSON
& TAYLOR, Solicitors, Church Street,
Rockdale, Lancs., England?
Public Notice
I, KONSTANTINOS TASTSIDES, of
Greek nationality, born at Saranta
Eklisies, Adrianopole, Turkey _ (Asia
Minor), resident five (5) years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 13 Hopewell
Street, Paddington, N.S.W., to
apply for Naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948-1953.
SPORTING NOTIONS
In the eight-event programme
at Moonee Valley five favorites
and an equal-favorite won,
and the other two winners were
well backed.
Successful Melbourne appren-
tice Brian Gilders piloted two
winners, Sarraf and Gold Milla.
The former won her first race
when she easily beat the favorite.
Sir Gordon, in the Second Royal
Park Handicap for two-year-
olds. Sarraf had shown disap-
pointing form. In nine starts she
had managed three minor
places. Raced by her owner-
breeder, E. A. Underwood, she
is by Dhoti (imp.) from Temple
Coyn by Pantheon (imp.) from
Coinage by The Welkin (imp.).
Former New Zealander
Debited won the 13-furlongs
Banyule Trial by * a good 10
lengths. It looked nearer 15
lengths, but in any case it was
the longest winning margin in a
flat event in Melbourne for a
long time. Debited is a three-
year-old gelding by Count Ren-
dered (imp.) from Baltimore by
Balloch (imp.). A first foal, he
is closely related to Palfrey, a
winner of the N.Z. St. Leger.
Scratchmere Scar, winner of
several races in New Zealand
and Australia, figures in the
pedigree.
Sydney trainer N. Christensen
took King Remarc to Mel-
bourne. The horse’s best in
Sydney was a Kembla restricted
event in January last. He struck
iorm in Melbourne, and was
favorite when he won the
Moonee Valley Suburban handi-
cap on Saturday. This made his
Melbourne record six starts for
three wins, two seconds and a
third. King Remarc was bred
in W.A.
Winter means jumping-races
in the south. Melbourne has the
Nationals as major attractions,
followed by the Australian
Hurdle and Steeple. The G. N.
Hurdle will bte run in July, and
Redfield, who narrowly defeated
Bar Sinister in the Moonee
Valley Hurdle, is to be set for the
big race, as will Bar Sinister. H.
Myer, who trains the Valley
winner, won the G. N. Hurdle in
1927 with Nyangay. Redfield, a
speedy jumper and a winner on
the flat, is a six-year-old
gelding by Enfield (imp.) from
Sequoia. Enfield is sire of
several stayers of note, including
two winners of the Melbourne
Cup, Sirius and Rimfire.
Port Arthur, winner of six
of his eight races this season,
is Newcastle’s hope for the Bris-
bane Cup. His sire, Macarthur,
is a son of Marconigram (imp.),
a noted sire of stayers, while his
dam, Sylvia’s Pet, is by Sylvan-
dale, a dual St. Leger winner and
place-getter in Sydney and Mel-
bourne Cups in 1935, in the latter
carrying 9.4. Sylvia’s Pet traces
back on the dam’s side to
Wallace, best son of Carbine.
The seven-furlongs Stradbroke
handicap, run June 11, Ms
attracted among other Sydney
horses Fire Dust (Doncaster
winner), Gay Vista, Birdwood,
Prince Morvi, Indian Empire,
Love To All, Karendi, Silver
Phantom and Kev Mar. Karendi
won the race last winter from
Persian Link and Kev Mar.
Brisbane Cup nominations from
Sydney include Port Arthur,
Earldom, Gold Quality, Finito,
Golden Galleon, Talisman,
Hutton and Andonni.
The Sydney jockeys’ premier-
ship looks like going to A. Ward,
who is heading the list with 55
firsts, followed by W. Cook 47
and N. Sellwood 36. No other
rider has The Bolter’s chance
against these three. The season
ends on July 31.
All place-getters in the Grand
National Steeplechase, England’s
greatest cross-country event,
nine - year - old Quare Times,
Tudor Line and Carey’s Cottage,
were bred in Ireland. Vincent
O’Brien, trainer of the winner,
led in the winner last year
(Royal Tan) and in 1953
(Early Mist). To win the
G.N.S. three years in succession
is without parallel in the history
of the famous event. Irish-bred
and -trained ’chasers have long
dominated this sport in England.
Of the last 51 Nationals 35 have
been won by • Irish-bred gal-
lopers. O’Brien, until the
National win, started Quare
Times in only 19 races and
didn’t race the horse until it was
a six-year-old. Quare Times,
bought as a yearling, was kept
in a paddock for two years, then
sent as a three-year-old to
O’Brien, who kept him another
three years before starting him.
Some time after winning the
1949 Melbourne Cup, on Fox-
ami, W. Fellows took up train-
ing because increasing weight
was restricting riding prospects.
Then he went riding again, had
a few wins, and, lately, a track
accident. So now he’s training
again, this time with half-a-dozen
horses, most of them yearlings.
Tranquil Hero, a winner at
Kembla (N.S.W.), is a three-
year-old gelding by Qui Va La
from Tranquil Queen. He is a
half-brother to two-year-old
Tranquil Lass (by Howe), winner
of a double at the A.J.C. Easter
meeting. Tranquil Queen is a
half-sister to Adriatic, who
won races at Newcastle and
later in India, and to Overflow,
a winner on N.S.W. provincial
tracks. Tranquil Queen is by
Sir Calidore (imp.) from an im-
ported dam, Exaggeration by
Politian.
* * *
Rain washed out Sydney’s
Pacers’ Derby, so it’ll be held
next Friday night. The 10 three-
year-olds will enjoy another week
of special care from serious-
faced mentors, who are set the
task of maintaining in their
charges that elusive peak-form.
Popular choice Explicit is the
only filly in the final 10. Last of
the sex to win the race was the
Lawn Derby-Miss Anthony filly
Miss Lawnham. Driven by S.
McMillan, she skittled 10’s-on
favorite Admirer in 1940. Race-
record (3.10)) is held by Cen-
tennial Hall, an Enzedder now
racing in the West. He was
pushed to it by champion
Ribands in 1952.
W. McKay has decided to
drive Mighty Warrior in the
final, which means that D. Fitz-
patrick will pilot Explicit.
McKay says that Mighty Warrior
is the besf colt he’s driven—a
mouthful for a man of McKay’s
standing. He has three Sydney
Derbies to his credit, along with
three Sapling Stakes, while his
Victorian “classics” are
numerous. Leading Sydney
reinsman A. Phillis has been
engaged for J. P. McKay’s
charge, Pacing Gift. Phillis has
trained and driven the last two
Derby winners, but this year his
only entrant, Super Spring, never
looked a threat.
The Victorian trotting Derby
went to Count Mirando, beating
Scarlet Sea and Royal Love.
Though 6)sec. outside Travis
Eddy’s record, set last year, the
winner showed promise in
patches of serious trotting. How-
ever, the contest was a sprawling
spectacle with false-gaited
youngsters skitching and hopping
right round the track. This is in
contrast to American trotting’s
race of the year—the Hamble-
tonian for three-year-old square-
trotters. This race carries an
enormous stake (117,000 dollars
last year) and provides excellent
entertainment. Little encourage-
ment is given here to the time
and perseverance required for a
young square-gaiter.
Melbourne’s Gordon Three-
year-qjd was whisked off by R.
Parker’s General James. A costly
youngster, General James is by
the imported Fremont out of that
highly reputed mare Erinack.
Sydney’s brilliant Van Derby
horse, Van Hall, is out of the
same dam. N.Z, filly Super
View was second. She went
from the Watts to the Harpley
stable in N.S.W., and is now
being prepared by G. Rothacker
in Melbourne. Explicit was the
only runner in front of this filly
in a recent Harold Park race,
which stands the yet-green
General James in line for better
things. Favorite Brookland Rose
was third.
+ +
Nearly 50,000 went to M.C.G.
for the Y.F.L. mateh-of-the-day
—Footscray v. Melbourne —and
the best it turned out to be.
If ’Scray is noted for anything
it is speed, strength and tenacity.
It was astonished to find Mel-
bourne had an equal share of all
three and something more —air-
superiority. That won Mel-
bourne the match, by 6.22 to
6.10, after it had played its best
game for years (with shooting-
boots on the Demons it would
have been worse for ’Scray).
Carlton got the remarkable
result of 17.4 against poor old
Fitzroy’s 6.13, and Essendon,
after both back lines had put in a
torrid day, got ahead of North
to make it 11.14-5.15. Colling-
wood nearly doubled St. Kilda’s
score, 16.20 to 8.11, the up-and-
coming Hawthorn walloped
South by 15.8 to 7.14, and down
at Geelong the locals amused
themselves with Richmond
Tigers, 15.13-9.11.
* * *
“K.R.”: One Saturday
recently, in Sydney, I saw Parra-
matta v. Eastwood at Rugby
'Union. The guernseys of both
have horizontal bands of blue,
and, not a caseworn follower of
either, I found it hard to
remember which was which,
besides being unable to pick out
individuals ; a bit of mud, and it
was harder still to pick ’em out.
The following Saturday, in Mel-
bourne, I saw Collingwood and
North Melbourne (V.F.L.);
’Wood vertical black and white
stripes, North blue and white ;
from the outer not always easy
to see whethet it was a Magpie
or Shinboner with the ball.
Surely color-schemes in jerseys
worn in the one comp, can be
diversified enough to avoid
confusion.
During the deluge in Sydney
on Saturday, Gordon Rugby
Unionists splashed in ahead of
Manly, 14-nil. Manly forwards
manfully won the ball, particu-
larly in the lineouts, in which the
Gordon blokes showed little
interest. But Gordon’s cover-
defence was very resolute and,
all round, the side’s wet-weather
tactics paid handsomely. On one
occasion Gordon forwards
tapped the ball back to Cox, the
Manly half. Tempers were a
little ragged towards the end, a
flurry of fists enlivening
proceedings.
In other watery Rugby Union
games in Sydney, Randwick and
St. George finished 3-all, Uni-
versity downed Eastwood 9-nil
after strenuous opposition by the
Eastwood forwards. Easts had
their second victory for the
season, this time at Parramatta’s
expense, 14-3, and Drummoyne
beat Northern Suburbs, 15-11.
* * *
Condemned by the critics as a
bunch of crocks and has-beens
the Australian cricketers have
won two and drawn one of the
three West Indies Tests —the
•second win by eight wickets.
In the third Test against W.I.
at Georgetown the home side
put together 389 in two innings—
with Miller and Lindwall destroy-
ing their front and centre and
Skipper Johnson assailing flanks
and rear. Australia got 257 in
the first innings, and with 133
wanted in the second went
leisurely about getting them.
Morris and McDonald tallied 69
and Harvey and Watson got the
rest.
“5 GR”: Narrandera was
playing Leeton cricket.
“Strangers?” a toothless young-
ster asked as we crossed the
channel bridge. “Got a glass?”
He swept one out of the straw,
pulled off the top. “From Mel-
bourne are you? A funny com-
bination this one; the Narran-
dera mob made up from the
front-bar of the pub, our outfit
was raised in the Hydro last
night. Have another, this one's
on me, but if you want to have
another go, four-bob a bottle.
For charity. We won the toss,
but have sent Narrandera in to'
bat. They won’t sight the ball.”
Narrandera made 96 in two
hours topped with a sixer
among the paspalum. The
umpire went off to get a new
ball —and renew supplies. While
he was away the ball was found,
and the game resumed under
a Narrandera umpire. But he
made things a bit too hot when
he gave the Leeton priest out
l.b.w. on the ninth ball of an over.
Narrandera’s spin-bowler looked
like running through the side
until somebody counted up on
his fingers. After the match
they had a barbecue. Who won?
Now, let’s see —after the fifth
bottle . . . Oh, well.
* * *
“Maxey”: At Amstel Golf
Club (Vic.) the pro., Bill Walker,
has a notice in the shop:
CUSTOMERS WANTED. NO
PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE
NECESSARY
If the Australian Golf Union
can be persuaded, next year’s
Open will be played in Mel-
bourne instead of Sydney.
Temptations are the Olympic
Games and a probable increase
in total prizemoney from the
present £5OO to £2OOO. The pro.
field, too, would include “invited
British stars.”
* * *
Redex Trial prize-money will
total about £lO,OOO this year.
The thing has captured world
motoring-interest, and is now on
the calendar of the Federation
Internationale de I’A utomobile,
governing body of motor-sports
throughout the world. Entries
close on July 12, and the trip
will start from Parramatta
(N.S.W.) on August 21 and
finish there on September 11.
♦ ♦ •
One of Australia’s brightest
boxing prospects was seen in
action at Leichhardt Stadium
when Colin Clarke (9.10 i)
clashed with George Bracken
(9.8)). The contest was set for
12 three-minute rounds, but,
outboxing Bracken throughout
round one, Clarke scored a
“nine” knockdown early in the
second, and, as George then only
had a vague idea of what was
going on, ref. Jack Bums
intervened. Two promising
young boxers were seen in
10-round supporting bouts.
Max Simpson (9.2)-) had
height and reach advantages over
Allen Cartwright (9.8)) in the
first, always looking like a
winner, and stopped Cartwright
in the seventh. Ex-amateur
bantamweight champion of Aus-
tralia Darcy Carr (8.10)) carried
too much class for Jimmy
O’Shea (8.13), winning comfort-
ably on points.


Historic Places:
Preserve Them? Destroy Them?
1. A House with
a History
By TERENCE LAMBART
ON the crest of a gently
sloping hill on a minor
peninsula which thrusts
its stubby finger into the
Brisbane River the broad
stream on one side, Breakfast
Creek on the other —stands
Brisbane’s oldest remaining
residence, Newstead House.
I have a particular reason for
knowing it, its setting and its
history, for here I lived as a
boy and spent my early youth.
Unlike most of our historic
buildings, it is today preserved
and well cared for.
Its low, impressive length,
spreading along the hilltop of
present-day Newstead Park,
dates back to 1846, when, in 35
acres of land (bought for £5l),
it was built by pioneer Darling
Downs pastoralist Patrick
Leslie, son of William Leslie,
Tenth Laird of Warthill, Scot-
land, as a town house. In design
it closely followed the plans of
the original Canning Downs
homestead, the Leslie home on
the Downs.
The architecture is modified
Georgian porch-with-columns
omitted, but with verandas
instead. The style was adopted,
with variations, by Governor
Macquarie for the colonies;
hence called colonial architec-
ture.
In 1847 a neighbor, Captain
Clements Wickham (Royal
Navy), after whom Wickham-
street and Wickham-terrace (the
street of medicos) in Brisbane
were named, bought the splendid
home for £lOOO, and lived in it
as first New South Wales Gov-
ernment Resident and Police
Magistrate of Moreton Bay Dis-
trict. Here much of the early
administrative work was done
for Queensland-in-the-making.
When Captain Wickham
retired on the separation of the
States (1859), Newstead House
was reoccupied by its original
owner, Patrick Leslie: it was
he who had named it Newstead ;
the reason is obscure, though it
is believed that it was so called
after England’s Newstead
Abbey.
In 1854 Sir Charles Fitzroy
—at that time Governor of New
South Wales ; a piece of really
top Colonial Brass—visited
Newstead House, and was enter-
tained by the Resident Magis-
trate in truly regal fashion.
Some 18 years after it had
been reoccupied by the Leslie
family, Mr. George Harris, a
prosperous Brisbane merchant,
purchased the old house for
£4OOO ; and the charming Mrs.
Harris, a personality in her own
right, spent, it is said, colossal
sums in entertaining Brisbane’s
early society.
Royalty knew something of
this hospitality; for Mrs. Harris
was hostess to the Duke of
Clarence (Prince Edward) and
his brother George, later King
George V, on their visit to
Australia.
Mrs. George Harris’s grand-
son was born at Newstead. The
grandson is distinguished Aus-
tralian diplomat and statesman
Mr. R. G. Casey.
Quite a number of tenants
occupied Newstead before the
area was sold to the Brisbane
Town Council in 1921 by the
then owner, Mrs. Hislop. Among
its occupants was Herbert Perry
(builder of Perry House in Bris-
bane) ; others included a branch
of the well-known Lysaghts
family.
My father (ex-Royal Dublin
Fusiliers, who survived a leg-
amputation at the age of 85)
was the last tenant of Newstead
House before it was taken over
by the Brisbane Council. The
occasion is noted by a brass
plaque on the old home, which
reads, in brief: “Newstead
Park. Officially opened by
Alderman James Maxwell,
M.L.A., Mayor of Brisbane,
29th January, 1921.” ,
I first knew Newstead in 1910
—four years before the Kaiser’s
War —when my father rented the
old place from Mrs. Hislop, a
member of a well-known Bris-
bane family. Mrs. Hislop, I
remember, said she could live
there no longer because she be-
lieved the old pile to be haunted.
And well it might have been, to
the highly sensitive and imagina-
tive.
The house, beautifully
appointed, huge and old, con-
tained no fewer than 14 or 15
commodious rooms, of which
at least six were spacious bed-
rooms. It appeared to have been
built on top of a construction
of brick cells —prison-cells they
seemed, with barred windows —
and within those earth-floored
cells there appeared to be a
grave-mound here and there.
I can discover no historical
reference to these stone cells;
but surely here was a place
where ghosts—if ghosts there be
—would walk abroad when good
folk were abed. Once, indeed,
my father “laid a ghost.” Each
night, near midnight, a gas-
bracket in the flagstone hall
would vibrate ominously, then
stop as suddenly as it would
start. There was no apparent
reason for this phenomenon,
and it went on for many weeks
before the mystery was solved. A
heavy goods-train, rumbling
through Mayne Junction a mile
or so away and setting up a
minor earth-tremor, proved to
be the culprit.
There were times, too, when
slate-tiles became dislodged with
age and would clatter to the
gutter. Sometimes there were
less accountable things that
“went boomp in the night”; but
no phantoms made themselves
manifest to us.
Before the old Brisbane City
Council acquired Newstead for
what is now Newstead Park
—one of Brisbane’s most
picturesque and restful parks—
the house stood on five acres of
land; five acres of grassland
liberally dotted with gum-trees
and bunya-pine. Along the
river-frontage, although the area
was private property, anglers
would scale a barbed-wire
barrier, cast their bait upon the
waters and fill their creels with
succulent river-bream.
Today the house is, in part,
an historical museum, in part a
tenant’s residence. The greater
area, the single-story museum,
since 1939 headquarters of the
Historical Society of Queens-
land, once slate-roofed, now red-
tiled, dominates the park hill,
while the two-story portion—
once the commodious kitchen,
laundry, servants’-quarters —is
now occupied by a family who
tenant this impressive Brisbane
landmark and assist in museum
duties.
When Newstead House was
occupied as a home the division
. facing the river comprised a
major bedroom, a drawing-
room, a billiard-room and a
dining-room. Immediately be-
hind the dining-room was a
study, next two bedrooms, the
hall, two more bedrooms, and
finally a family bathroom, with
conveniences and appointments
modern by today’s standards.
Each room had its own Italian-
marble ’mantled fireplace. The
whole was completely embraced
by v wide verandas.
'Tlie Historical Society of
Queensland, which now inhabits
it, is doing, and has done, a
great work in uncovering and
preserving the history
of the State. Mr. Alex-
ander Morrison—since
1947 secretary to the
society explains that
the aims are to collect
for preservation the
history of Queensland,
and to file all informa-
tion available for
students and for
the public generally.
On the long veranda
facing the river is part
of a tree a blazed
stump marked by ex-
plorer William Lands-
borough on his journey
south from Cape Capri-
corn in 1862 in search
of the lost Leichhardt.
The stump was brought
from Terrick Terrick
station in Central
Q ueens i an d in 1937 by Gresley
Towner, V.C. of the First
World War.
The smail but priceless Tom
Welsby Library of the early
Brisbane and Moreton scene is
at Newstead ; and much has
been ad ded to the historic
nuc j eus he donated.
Here, again, is a chair from
the dining-saloon and the ship’s-
bell of the s t ea m-yacht Lucinda,
the old Brisbane paddle-wheeler
on which Sir Samuel Griffith
and his colleagues discussed the
projected Federation of the
States.
Or you may, if so minded, sit
for a moment in Sir Joshua
Peter Bell’s buggy; or, if
mechanically minded, in one of
the first two horseless carriages
BRISBANE PRESERVES OLD NEWSTEAD HOUSE
(complete with original battery)
that Brisbane ever saw.
Many paintings, engravings,
prints and photographs of
Queensland scenes and people
hang upon the walls of the old
place. There is a life-size oil of
the Rev. John Flynn, who made
mercy-flying history in Queens-
land. A photo of every Queens-
land Premier is here, including
the first, Sir Robert George
Wyndham Herbert, who came to
office in 1860 and is distinguished
by not only being the first but
also the youngest ever to hold
the Premiership.
Other things to be seen there
include the binnacle of the
ill-fated Quetta, the coat-of-
arms of the first H.M.A.S. Bris-
bane ; and, of more recent
times, the audio- and visual-
transmitter of 4CM, Queens-
land’s first broadcasting-station
(the year was 1921). And as
well there are a thousand-and-
one tomes, reference-books and
much else of general and
particular interest.
It is fitting that the proud
old place should thus house
historic records and miscellany,
in the making of which it played
its own colorful and not
unimportant part,
An Adelaide Contrast
2. Where Redcoats Marched
and Troopers Rode
By JOHN GARDNER
THE century-old limestone
orderly-room at the gate-
way to the barrack-square
is choked with junk; its
face is hidden by broken
packing-cases and builders’
debris.
From the stone-and-brick
Gothic gateway, where they once
fired a six-pounder brass
cannon every noon, I looked on
the remnants of the acre-
quadrangle around which were
once quartered the South Aus-
tralian Mounted Police. It is
just off Adelaide’s stately, leafy
North Terrace.
Here, just a hundred years ago
(March, 1855), the mounted-
police rode in and took over their
new barracks ; a block of stone,
slate-roofed buildings which
might have done credit to a
Greenway.
This was the force of Adam
Lindsay Gordon; of young
warriors from the Peninsular
wars; of bushmen, and of blue-
bloods out for a few years in
the colonies. In it were men who
had ridden in the epic dash to the
Ballarat diggings under Com-
missioner Alexander Tolmer to
bring back pack-saddles full of
gold, which, stamped into ingots
under the specially passed
Bullion Act, saved the struggling
colony of S.A. from financial
ruin. The poet Gordon himself,
it is recorded, rode in the gold-
escort.
The troopers looked over their
new quarters: the armory for
the flint firelocks, the bayonets,
swords, cross-belts and long-
snouted revolvers. Here were the
troop-rooms, there the powder-
magazine, the dormitories, the
kitchen, and the tiny, regimental-
type liquor-bar.
From this lovely old pile of
buildings around the barrack-
square men and horses carried
the law for generations to Mount
Gambier in the south and
Darwin in the north, building up
a tradition which should be
part of the warp and woof of our
history.
But what has happened?
Since the troopers rode away to
new barracks in the parklands
west of the city in 1917 the 1855
barracks have fallen into dis-
repair or have been knocked
down to make way for Govern-'
ment offices.
What could have been, say, a
wonderful historical museum
and an inspiration to every Aus-
tralian is now a sad sight indeed.
In Adelaide the disappearance
of such historic places is being
accelerated by the swelling surge
of industrial expansion. Private
industry and Government alike
are looking down every street
for likely sites —and walls are
toppling daily. The cry by
commerce and officialdom for
living-space inside the four
Terraces is so loud that the City
Fathers are talking about zoning
the whole area for commercial
purposes.
As another example, the
slender links with the red-coated
detachments of Imperial troops
who garrisoned South Australia
from 1838 to the ’seventies may
break if their old and handsome
quarters in Adelaide are allowed
to fall further into disrepair.
Almost hidden by a petrol-
and parking-station, these former
military-quarters form a sort of
terrace behind the circulating
library and alongside the old
barrack-square. These buildings
should be restored to their full
colonial beauty. Something of
the color and courage of the
British regiments they once
housed should be shown by
weapons, flags and accoutre-
ments they carried.
Here should be told the story
of the 14th, the 50th, the 18th,
the 96th and other regiments
that carried the flag until they
handed it over to raw, game
local militiamen.
Here could be told, for
instance, the story of the 90 men
of the 11th Regiment who
tumbled ashore at Encounter
Bay from the Brankenmoor in
- April, 1846, after a fierce pound-
ing in wild seas in which their
ship almost foundered. They
sorted themselves out on the
beach. Then, with packs up and
a drum playing, they set off on
a 60-mile march through scrubby
country to garrison the infant
capital of the South.
The South is studded with
these tiny cameos of Australian
history, but it is fast losing the
places in which they could most
suitably be displayed.
It seems, alas, nobody’s job
to save early colonial buildings
which belong to the pattern of
national tapestry our fathers
wove.


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . BIT UK
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3m), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
r
£
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SIR ANTHONY, P.M.
The London newspaper-strike
silenced most of the critics and
admirers of Sir Anthony Eden
when he acceded to the British
Prime Ministership. The Com-
munist “Tribune” and “Daily
Worker,” which still contrived
to come out, were, of course,
noisily hostile to the new P.M.,
and London “Punch,” never an
admirer, published a rather
devastating cartoon - comment.
For the rest, it was mainly
bouquets:
“Manchester Guardian” Par-
liamentary correspondent: “Be-
fore the war men of his own
party would speak of Sir
Anthony Eden as the spoilt-
child of politics. He entered
the House of Commons in 1923,
elegant, good - looking and
largely unknown. He had
been the youngest adjutant in
the British Army in France in
the First World War, had won
the Military Cross, and then
gone back to Oxford and taken
honors in Oriental Languages.
“Three years after entering
the House he became Par-
liamentary-secretary to the then
Foreign Secretary, Sir Austen
Chamberlain, whom he served
until 1929. Six years later he
had become Foreign Secretary
himself. He was 38.
“Envy could see nothing but
an occult favoritism at work
behind this swift march to high
office. Others realised, as Sir
Winston did, that an outstanding
figure of unusual promise had
appeared on the Tory scene.
He required neither to push
himself nor to be pushed. He
was a godsend to a party
desperately in need of fresh
talent. What recruit of equal
promise had it secured since the
war? Not any of the ‘ex-future
Prime Ministers.’ No one can
say they were unfairly passed
over in Sir Anthony’s favor.
Time has proved that.”
The same: “Churchill’s de-
scription of him as a figure of
the/ first magnitude could
involve comparisons which Sir
Anthony cannot sustain. He
has no touch of genius or great
power of intellect. His recom-
mendations are a clear and
balanced mind, moderation of
judgment, integrity, and a high
sense of public duty. They are
qualities that have served more
than one Prime Minister well as
substitutes for genius or intellect.
There is much in him that
reminds one of an earlier
Foreign Secretary, Grey.
Character still counts in English
public life, and the country has
an instinctive feeling for it. It
early recognised it in Sir
Anthony.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman” : “His
[Eden’s] course to the goal has
not been that most familiar in
19th-century history. Peel,
Disraeli, Gladstone, Asquith,
Lloyd George, Bonar Law, Bald-
win, Neville Chamberlain, and
even Churchill, who is neither
financier nor economist, were
all Chancellors of the Exchequer
before becoming Prime Minis-
ters. Sir Anthony Eden on the
other hand, is of the line repre-
sented by Canning, Grenville,
Palmerston, Salisbury and Rose-
bery, who first made their mark
as Foreign Secretaries..
“One can understand that in
the years of industrial expansion
and economic prosperity the
key-post to future political
advancement was the Chancel-
lorship of the Exchequer. It
was perhaps not an accident
that as the last century drew to
a close foreign affairs came to
assume a growing importance.
F&r the reshaping of the politi-
cal map of the world that is
now in progress it would seem
that Sir Anthony Eden has had
the right kind of training.”
The same: “On all hands he
[Eden] is respected. But he is
not yet a great popular figure,
and in spite of this country’s
devotion to democracy and
detestation of the Fuhrerprinzip
in its totalitarian manifestations,
whether Nazi, Fascist, or Com-
munist, it is still essential for
true greatness that a political
leader should capture the public
imagination. How this is done
is a secret of personality. Sir
Anthony Eden may have his
own way of achieving it. That
is thfe task ahead of him.”
* * *
s “Yorkshire Post” : Because of
his outstanding success as a
Foreign Secretary some people
have asked whether he [Eden]
has the gifts of a good Prime
Minister. Such questionings are
unintelligent. It is true that the
Prime Minister has not had vast
experience in domestic affairs;
the reason does not lie in any
lack of aptitude, but in the fact
that he has been so brilliantly
busy in foreign matters. He has
one essential quality for the
management of men and of
affairs, a quality proved by
his resignation in 1938 —integrity
of character. He will command
respect in the Cabinet-room, in
the House and in the country.”
The same: “Sir Anthony’s
record at the Foreign Office
shows that he is capable of
vigorous and even revolutionary
action. His work in helping to
end the -fighting in Indo-China
showed a quite exceptional
negotiating capacity—something
that went far beyond diplomatic
finesse. His readiness in London
to accept a lasting Continental
commitment (for that was what
it amounted to in practice) and
thus to break with the tradition
of centuries showed that he
could grasp the dominant
realities of his age. These
actions do not constitute the
index; of a mind content to
follow Departmental routine.”
* * m
London “New Statesman”:
“The position of Sir Anthony
Eden is both exposed and pre-
carious. No one who knows
this Parliament would deny that
if the succession had to be
decided by a secret ballot of the
1922 Committee, Mr. Butler
would have won it by a hand-
some majority. Though he is
an excellent diplomatist, a suc-
cessful debater, and enjoys wide
popularity in the country, the
new Prime Minister’s hold on
the Tory-machine is extremely
weak. Here he has some good
friends, but far more eager
rivals. In the months ahead he
will be a Prime Minister on
trial, and neither Mr. Butler nor
Mr. Macmillan will do much
to save him from the conse-
quences of mistakes or mis-
fortunes. Ambition is the most
powerful motive in politics, and
in the Tory party the struggle
for power is waged as merci-
lessly (if with less ideological
argument and public disagree-
ment) as it is in the Labor
party.”
London “Spectator”: “What-
ever kind of Prime Minister Sir
Anthony Eden proves to be, the
Conservative party is from now
on going to be governed by a
triumvirate. These three men,
Sir Anthony Eden himself, Mr.
Butler and Mr. Harold Mac-
millan, are all in one way or
another identified with the new
Conservatism; they all played
their different roles between
1945 and 1950. But the pre-
cedents make it clear that trium-
virates such as this, which
includes two heirs-apparent, are
not tightly-knit and united
bodies. Differences of personal-
ity, of policy and of apibition
sooner or later make themselves
felt, and a struggle for power
follows. There is every posji-
bility that this may happen
within the Conservative party
now, and that Sir Anthony Eden
will have to seek an ally among
his two senior lieutenants as a
counterpoise to the third.
“Much, of course, depends on
what kind of Prime Minister Sir
Anthony proves to be. He is
almost ideally cast for the role
of the true party Prime Minis-
ter. He is of the party in a way
which Sir Winston Churchill has
—New York “Herald Tribune"
THE TOWN’S AN AWFUL LONG WAY FROM THE
STATION
not been but Stanley Baldwin
was. He understands it. He
has great skill in predicting its
moods and its reactions and in
dealing with them. He is con-
scientious and hardworking,
He pictures the Conservative
party as a ‘national party, both
in the source of its strength and
in the objects of its policy.’ He
has protested vigorously against
it becoming either ‘the creature
of millionaire newspaper-
owners or the appanage of big
business.’ He is the born
empiricist. Above all, he is
trusted, and takes over the
leadership of his party with as
much goodwill as any new Prime
Minister can ever have had in
time of peace.”
A Political NATO?
Just before he retired Sir
Winston Churchill dismissed the
suggestion that the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation
should include a Parliamentary
Assembly as “just as likely to
breed misunderstanding as under-
standing.”
Expressing a different view,
“Manchester Guardian” com-
ments that there are serious gaps
in Nato as it now stands:
“Although in general the
alliance works well, it is jolted
each year by inter-Governmental
disputes. Other gaps are shown
by the failure of Parliamentarians
on both sides of the Atlantic and
the Channel to comprehend the
other’s views, and by the rigid
isolation from each other of
American and British plans for
nuclear bombs and strategic air-
forces.
“True, these are minor failings
by comparison with what has
been achieved, but they are still
serious. Would a Parliamentary
Assembly of Atlantic countries
help? The only kind of body
possible at present would be
consultative, like the Council of
Europe, since there is no chance
that Governments would allow it
legislative rights. But annual
meetings of Parliamentary
members to discuss common
problems might be of some
help.
“Another useful body would
be a diplomatic ‘standing-group’
like the-military standing-group
which exists in Washington. The
military group makes sure,
within the limits of its mandate,
that information and plans are
exchanged swiftly and system-
atically. On major issues it
cannot take decisions, but it can
make ceftain that individual
Governments are aware of the
impact which their decisions may
have on other countries, and it
can provide dispassionate advice
for its superiors in the North
Atlantic Council. An equivalent
diplomatic group would be
invaluable.
“It would provide channels
less clogged and clumsy than the
Embassies, and its studies would
be less haphazard. In the
military field the standing-group
has been a high success. Its
officers work side by side, eat
together, and live near each
other, so that they are in constant
contact. In the diplomatic field
the problems are greater. A
diplomatic group would have to
be at a higher level than the
military—indeed, it need not
necessarily be part of Nato. But
each time there is a transatlantic
storm and each time the Western
Power's take six to eight weeks
to answer a Soviet Note one is
aware of its absence.”
The subject is taken a little
further in an article in “Foreign
Affairs,” the U.S. quarterly, by
PauLHenri Spaak, Belgian
Foreign Affairs Minister (he has
held that post four times previ-
ously, has been Prime Minister
three times, and was president
of the United Nations General
Assembly in 1946):
“The menace of the atom-
bomb points directly to the rein-
forcement of the Atlantic
Alliance —in its aims, but above
all in its methods.
“The Atlantic Alliance must
be given a political council. In
Europe, I am for almost complete
political integration within the
framework of the Atlantic Pact.
.1 would not dare go so far as
that at once, but there are inter-
mediary formulas to be found
between the totally insufficient
powers of the present Council of
Nato and the renunciation of a
part Qf the national sovereignty.
“Around the atom-bomb is
being built a whole strategy, a
whole policy, perhaps even, in
outline, a philosophy. Out of
our very extremity may come
wisdom, out of the frightenijig
means of destruction may come
the means of assuring peace.
What men in the past have
sought to make prevail by per-
suasion, by appealing to humane
feelings, may in the end be
achieved because the insensate
machine inexorably imposes it.
Technical progress may indirectly
produce moral and social
progress. If so, what an extra-
ordinarily crooked road it would
have been that led toward the
good!
“But this progress will take
place, if it takes place at all, in a
most dangerous atmosphere, an
atmosphere of profound fear.
Humanity’s future will be hang-
ing upon a maladroit gesture, an
uncontrolled reflex, the act of a
lunatic or a megalomaniac.
Before we reach the goal much
time will pass, many things will
happen, many dangers will have
to be avoided.
“If war comes it may be
atomic. It will not be for a
province or for economic
advantage; it will be a world
war with civilisation itself at
stake. Yet we are trying to cope
with this situation with our tradi-
tional form of political organisa-
tion. Even our furthest flights
of audacity have not as yet
carried us beyond the stage of
alliances. With difficulty we
have succeeded in making some
progress in military organisa-
tion. For the rest, we advance
to meet the future without hav-
ing succeeded in breaking from
the past. Truly our imagination
is not in step with our era. The
fact that the United States takes
a different attitude from Europe
toward recent events in the Far
East simply underlines the risks
we are running.
“Let us end our timid efforts,
which at best show vague good-
will more than a clear aware-
ness of realities, and let us accept
the consequences of the plain fact
that the fate of all of us in the
West is inextricably linked. 'The
atom-bomb leaves no room for
neutrality or separate national
policies. The West is condemned
not only to wage war together
but to create policy together. Let
us continue the military efforts
we have begun; but let us
urgently set to work to improve
our political relations, showing
in this field also a sense and
purpose of real solidarity.
“The Atlantic Alliance is a
great thing. It has the potentiality
to guarantee world peace. But
with its present imperfections it
cannot survive. Either it will
be complete or it will not be.”
The German "Miracle"
West Germany’s post-war
recovery still evokes the word
miracle ’ from press-corres-
pondents the latest to be moved
to such description being W H.
Johnston of the Yorkshire
Post / and A 1 10n T * oss / of , New
York Times. Johnston, how-
ever, although he uses the word


The facts about
your weight
Does overweight shorten your
life? Are fat people more sub-
ject to diseases? Does smok-
ing cut down your appetite?
What do authorities now say
is the smart (and happy) way
to diet? These are the
questions answered in May
Reader’s Digest by the head
of Harvard’s Department of
Nutrition.
Dozens of other stimulating
articles in May Reader’s
Digest, including “How to get
along with others,” “How
Russia hopes to win the
Olympics,” “The why of aches
and*pains,” “Britain bounces
back.” On sale now one
shilling and sixpence at all
newsagents and bookstalls,
ftet your copy to-day.
MU' ttve
Future
For more than two years now, it has been my
purpose in this column to sound a note of Christian
optimism in the future of Australia.
I believe that Australia is destined for a
greatness, of which we in our generation are
experiencing merely a first taste. But I also believe
that whatever we achieve will be won only by our
own effort.
That is why I seek to bring my fellow
Australians to a fuller expression of that love of
country which I know to be here among us in
abundant reserve.
Is there one loyal Australian who would flinch
at any sacrifice necessary to save his homeland if it
were in danger? He would pour himself out in
service defending it. Why?
Not, I believe, because of the many enjoyments
in living that it confers, but because it is his home,
the foundation of his own and his family’s right to
live and prosper.
Well, here in peace-time is the same Australia;
free, and for the present unthreatened. And we
are the same people, entrusted with its possession.
Ours is a positive task —to build and be worthy
of it.
We dream of Australia’s promise, of what it
will become in the atom-powered years ahead. But
if we are frank with ourselves, we will admit that
dreams of themselves are scarcely sufficient.
The world is full of dreamers, and we need
many of them to- leaven our thinking. But
accomplishment comes through the people who
translate dreams into action.
To be ready to defend our country is our
duty.
But to speed its active development in today ? s
urgent world, to my mind, is also a positive way of
expressing the, love we have for Australia.
//
7
—Minneapolis ( U.S.A .) “ Tribune ”
BACK TO BACK
“miracle,” goes on to comment
on the recovery:
“It has been brought about by
a number of causes, personal
and non-personal. The most
engaging of the personal causes,
if I may call him that, is Pro-
fessor Erhard, the Minister of
Economics.
“Erhard’s most characteristic
contribution to the miracle lay
in his cheerful acceptance of the
risks of foreign trade—a strik-
ing contrast to his Socialist con-
temporaries’ thin-blooded anxiety
in Britain. Import first, was his
maxim; feed the machines, and
pay later by exporting the
finished goods. It was a con-
fession of faith as much as a
statement of economic policy.”
Johnston adds that “great
technical skill” has been shown
in negotiating trade-agreements,
not the least interesting aspect
of which is “the persistence with
which capital goods are being
exported to more-or-less unde-
veloped countries the new
economy being built-up so as to
complement that of the Federal
Republic.”
Further, as Johnston sees it,
“the great mass of refugees”—
eight or nine millions of them
—have considerably aided the
German production - drive:
“These people are not, on bal-
ance, a burden on the economy.
The proportion of men of work-
ing-age among them is higher
than for the rest of the Federal
Republic.”
Ross, the “New York Times”
man, returning to Germany after
15 years, was most impressed by
the completeness with which the
people of West Germany had
obliterated from their minds the
memories of Hitler’s Germany
and their part in it: “Are they
the same Germans? Who are
they now?”
Answering his own questions,
Ross decides that “the Germans
of Konrad Adenauer’s West
German Federal Republic are
not only intact, seemingly
untouched by the war ; they are
more intact in some ways than
they have ever seemed before
to those who knew them in the
last years of the Weimar Re-
public and during the National-
Socialist regime.”
Finding the West Germans
closely resembling the German
Swiss, the Dutch and the Danes,
Ross goes on to describe these
as “notoriously small, healthy,
progressive peoples whose very
existence is based on their hav-
ing made their compromise with
life. They have long since ceased
to try to challenge fate and have
made a satisfactory best of not
very much. They share with
the Germans the characteristic
that is the most evident and
widely-advertised thing irf West
Germany today. They like to
work.”
Turning to geographical fac-
tors, Ross points out that the
Federal Republic and its 50 mil-
lion people takes in mainly the
Rhineland and Bavaria, which
have always seemed somewhat
closer to the Swiss, the Dutch
and the Danes in mentality than
were the Germans of the East:
“This Western Germany .is in a
sense older, neater, more Euro-
pean than the East. It is perhaps
easier for it to accept the role
of a medium-sized European
State in a changed world.”
“The ambition-ridden Reich,”
he adds, “was a Prussian Reich.
Hitler was an Austrian, if a
strange one. The great capitals
of the imperial German
dynasties, the Hohenzollerns and
the Habsburgs, are both out
there on the frontiers of what
is now left of the two empires.
They have been left stranded —
overpopulated and economically
superfluous monuments to ages
of conflict and great ambitions.
“Something is lacking from
the Federal Republic of Western
Germany which was omni-
present before. The Reich, with
its capital at Berlin and its roots
in the Prussian past, was more
than a territory. It was a tor-
menting spiritual force. You felt
it in the warp and woof of daily
conversation, in political slogans,
in the sudden reactions of young
men and the stubbornly
reiterated convictions of old
people. The heroes of that
Reich, born out of Prussia, were
soldiers. You feel the absence of
‘the Reich’ like the absence after
death of a dominating old
patriarch in a household. Men
breathe more freely.
“With the martial romanticism
of the Reich-idea gone, German
life has poured into the channel
of creative work. This is a
businessman’s society, an inde-
fatigably industrious society.
The German nerve-cure that
accounts for the fact that they
are so intact and unbroken to-
day is, before everything else, an
apparently boundless enthusi-
asm for hard work. The Ger-
mans have worked themselves
back to health.”
Towards a United
Europe
Typical British and American
press comment on the French
ratification of the Paris pacts:
“New York Times”: “The
new Europe, which the best
Western minds have projected
since the end of the last World
War, has started to assume the
outlines of reality as a result of
the approval of the Paris pacts
by the French Council of the
Republic. It thereby removes
the biggest road-block which
wrecked previous projects of that
kind, in particular the European
Defence Community.
“For these pacts, which create
a Western European Union and
expand the North Atlantic
alliance to include a rearmed
Germany, provide the essential
key to an adequate Western
defence against Soviet, aggres-
sion. The effect of that will not
be confined to Europe alone, but
will be felt around the globe.
Beyond that, they also establish
a foundation of European unity
on which can be built a political,
economic and military super-
structure that should not only
prevent further fratricidal wars
between the Western nations, in
particular France and Germany,
but might also realise the dream
of a United States of Europe
able to keep its own peace.
“In that sense the French
action also represents a stunning
defeat for the Soviets, who tried
to the very last to prevent ratifica-
tion by a massive flow of threats
and lures. They had already
projected their counter-measures
by threatening to denounce their
war-time alliance with Britain
and France, by formalising the
creation of an Iron Curtain
‘Nato,’ and by seeking to create
a ‘neutral’ zone across Europe
resting on Yugoslavia, Austria
and Sweden, which would further
divide the Continent. Their
search for a rapprochement with
Yugoslavia, their invitation to
separate negotiations for the
neutralisation of Austria and
their attention to Sweden all
point in the latter direction.
“But since it will still take two
to three years before the pro-
jected German Army of 500,000
can join the Western defence-
system, there is no reason to
assume that the Soviets will drop
their fight against what they term
‘German militarisation.’ ”
9 9 •
New York “Herald Tribune":
“For France the decision was a
difficult one. Ancient animosities,
made vivid by two German
invasions in a quarter of a
century, were not easily set aside.
France argued and debated and
searched its soul, and in the end
came to the realisation that the
future lies in the resolve of
nations to act together.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post ”: “Sir
Anthony Eden can take special
pride in the progress now
achieved towards erecting a
secure Western defence system.
It was his initiative, taken at the
depressing moment when France
had rejected the plan for a
European Defence Community,
that saved the situation and
brought the Paris agreements
into being. A new chapter in his
long fight to build the founda-
tions of an enduring peace is
now beginning.”
* * «
London “Economist” : “For
the past few months, indeed for
at least two years, the long hold-
up on giving the West Germans
their sovereignty and right to
rearm has led to a dangerous
stagnation in Europe’s affairs. It
has compelled Western statesmen
to approach negotiation with
Moscow with their hands tied
behind their backs. Not only
have they been unsure of the
real strength of the West; they
have continually had to look
back over their shoulders to see
what effect they may have been
having on the irresolution of
many of their followers.
“Now, ratification of the
agreements for Western Euro-
pean Union 'by the French
Upper House has cleared the
way for a new surge forward.
This is a moment that may, and
should, be as significant in post-
war history as the start of the
Marshall Plan or the signature of
the North Atlantic Treaty.
“What use can be made of it?
There are three things to be
done. Western Germany must in
fact be absorbed into Nato as a
free and equal partner; and that
means, inside the Federal
Republic, going ahead with
implementation of the new
rearmament arrangements, how-
ever slowly it may be politic to
proceed after the first cadre-
divisions have been set up.
“Secondly, a new look must be
taken at the whole problem of
dealing with the Russians in the
light of the changed position in
Western Europe, of the latest
thinking on hydrogen-bomb
strategy, and of the shifts in the
Russian rulership since Stalin
died.
“And, thirdly, some effort
must be made to re-engage the
gears of what for want of better
words may bewailed the ‘Euro-
pean movement’; even if no
great advance can be made in the
months immediately ahead, no
one should assume that Western
Europe will go on consisting
indefinitely of a series of archaic
national compartments.
“Two things cannot be
ignored. One is that there may
be no Continental Europe to
defend, if the French and the
Germans cannot seize this fresh
and golden opportunity to work
out their own salvation together;
therefore anything which
weakens the impetus behind their
sense of collaboration is also bad
—as Dr. Adenauer recognises.
“The other is that without the
British catalyst the prospects of
this process are still by no means
good. This is no argument for
surrendering, for instance, to the
impractical French clamor for an
arms-production pool. But it
does suggest that Sir Anthony
Eden, with his unique stature on
the Continent, should do his
utmost during the next 12 months
to give a lead, in order to
complete the work that he began
last September when he salvaged
Europe’s future from the scrap-
heap of E.D.C.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
•Criminals at Large
Now that the Obscene and Indecent
Publications Act is law in -N.S.W. I pro-
pose to charge sundry publishers of fairy-
tales, on the ground that many of the
tales “unduly emphasise” horror, crime or
cruelty.
In “Red Riding Hood” the wolf
gobbles-up the grandmother (horror and
cruelty), attempts to do the same to Red
Riding Hood herself (cruelty), and is
finally beheaded by the woodman (horror
and cruelty).
In “Jack and the Beanstalk” Jack slays
the giant (cruelty) and throws the body
down the beanstalk (horror). In “Snow
White and the Seven Dwarfs” the
“poisoned apple” episode could not get
past the Act, because it tends to corrupt
children by its emphasis on horror.
“Hansel and Gretel” is an inferno of
horror and violence ; horror follows upon
horror. Hansel and Gretel, left in the
woods to perish (horror), find their way
to the witch’s cottage, which, from the
outside, has a very appetising appearance,
being made of gingerbread. By false pre-
tences the witch lures them inside, then
claps them into a cage (cruelty to chil-
dren) with a view to fattening them up
for her Christmas-dinner (undue empha-
sis here on crime and horror, not to men-
tion the fact that the witch is clearly
breaking the Pure Foods Act). When the
witch tells Gretel what her fate is to
be, and begins to heatmp the oven, Gretel
suggests that the witch try it for heat,
pushes her in and slams the door, where-
upon the witch is promptly cooked alive
(horror, crime and cruelty).
So I warn the publishers of the works
of Andersen, Grimm and others that they
may find themselves in the dock, charged
with publishing literature liable to harm
those into whose hands it might come. If
the publishers, in obedience to this warn-
ing, censor these stories themselves, in an
attempt to make them' conform to the
Act, there will, in most cases, be very
little story left. — Littlejohn (N.S.W.).
Decentralisation
Despite “D.J.K.” to the contrary (B.
13/4/’55), Queensland is the most decen-
tralised State of the Commonwealth. To
say that Brisbane accounted for 59.4 per
cent, of Queensland’s increase in popula-
tion between 1939 and 1954 is misleading.
Consider percentages of State popula-
tions in the capital cities, 1947-1954:
Brisbane, 38.1 ; Adelaide, 60.7; Perth,
54.5; Sydney, 54.4; Melbourne, 62.1.
Hobart was lowest with 30.8.
t Further, although Brisbane had the
second-lowest percentage of State popula-
tion in the capital, Queensland showed
the second-highest percentage-increase of
population of the States between the
censuses of 1933 and 1954; i.e., 39.1,
compared with South Australia, 37.2, and
Western Australia, 45.8.
Decentralisation in Queensland has
been markedly successful. By 1921 Vic-
toria and South Australia already had
half their population in the capital city.
By 1947 this applied to Western Aus-
tralia and New South Wales also./ In
Queensland and Tasmania, however, the
capital cities have only about one-third of
the State population In 1947 Queensland
had 17 per cent, of its population in pro-
vincial cities with populations over
10,000 compared with 16 per cent, in Tas-
mania, 12 per cent, in New South Wales
and less than 6 per cent, in South Aus-
tralia and other States.
Since 1947 Brisbane shows an increase
in population of 24.8 per cent., but the
increase in Queensland’s provincial cities
has averaged 27.5 per cent. The metro-
politan area has only 36 per cent, of the
total number of factories and 52 per cent,
of the factory-workers of the State. Of
the 22 largest cities and towns of over
20,000 population in Australia, six are
in Queensland, six in New South Wales,
five in Victoria, two in Western Australia,
and one only in South Australia.
Of a total of over £2| million of State
Government assistance to industry in
Queensland, more than £2 million has
been provided for industrial enterprises
outside Brisbane. Moreover, in the three
years 1950 to 1953 expenditure on capital
works and other development in North
Queensland increased from £37.4 per
capita to £54.2 per capita, compared with
an advance in the metropolitan area from
£20.4 to £27.6 — Clem Lack (Q.).
i
Croats or Aussies?
Australians with a knowledge of Euro-
pean history were surprised to learn that
the Croatian National Day was to be
observed in Sydney on April 10, and that
Croats were then to lay a wreath upon
the Cenotaph in Martin-place. Whatever
may be the rights and the wrongs of the
Croats’ case for self-government, the facts
remain that their State Was set up in
1941 by Hitler and Mussolini, that an
Italian royal duke became its king, and
that the new State automatically ranged
itself on the side of our enemies.
So far as I have been able to gather, the
majority of Croats here are either seeking
Australian nationality or have already
gained it. We are glad of the many good
and interesting things the migrants have
brought with them, and we are anxious
to assimilate them as Australian citizens,
but we see no sense in the maintenance
of ancient European rivalries and
squabbles. If the newcomers intend to
remain Croats, Slovaks, Estonians or
what have you, let them continue with
their national days; but if they wish to
be naturalised, then, logically, .they must
be prepared to recognise but one national
day—Australia’s.— Maitri (N.S.W.).
Swamps in Sydney
Noisome swamps in Sydney suburbs
should be reclaimed. One bad one runs
along the railway between Concord West
and Rhodes, on the northern line to
Hornsby. Another big-’un lies near Tur-
rella station on the East Hills line.
They should be filled-in and built on.
Rhodes is an industrial area, and room
could well be made for additional fac-
tories —or new homes. I’m not a cham-
pion of the Big Wen but, accepting that
cities do grow, and that land on which
to build, reasonably, handy to transport
“ What —no fractional-fittings?”
and the city proper, is getting scarcer and
scarcer, then the opening-up of these areas
is an urgent need.
As they stand, anyway, these swamps
are an ever-present risk to health. —K. R.
(N.S.W.).
Stick It In Melbourne
So Wirth’s Park site, beside the Yarra,
is to be the site of a Victorian Cultural
Centre. The only argument in its favor
is that more people hang around there
than, say, round Swan Hill —an idea which
will eventually leave Victoria consisting
“They arrested ME at a poker-party
of Melbourne surrounded by an un-
inhabited wilderness.
Victorian Government policy seems to
be to make all country towns and cities
uninterestingly provincial by endowing
Melbourne with everything. All the talk
of decentralisation is so much piffle. Let
who will build on the Wirth’s Park site
and be blown to bits by an atom-bomb
in the next war.
And, anyway, the art of our country
deserves a better fate. There are cities
like Ballarat and Bendigo where the Cul-
tural Centre would be more at home and
unrestricted by size. Wales does not
suffer because her University, her National
Gallery, her National Library are scat-
tered about the country. As for overseas
visitors, if they wish to see the cultural
centre a good trip through the country-
side will do them more good than a trip
through Melbourne.
Other countries scatter their culture,
but Victoria crowds it all into one little
corner, so small that half our art-trea-
sures are confined to the vaults below. It
makes one envy the European countries,
where one looks for the great galleries
and museums in the provincial centres —
in Scotland the national theatre is in the
heart of the Highlands and bus-com-
panies run special services from the cities
for patrons.
One grows tired of politicians who view
Australia as a place of capital cities with
unfortunate space between them to be
bridged as quickly as possible by air-
liner. — John J. Alderson (Vic.).
Plain English '
Simple English does not mean reliance
on hackneyed expressions and drab
cliches, “D.J.K.” (B. 30/3/’55); it means
the use of simple words of clear meaning.
Vague writing, even if it sounds
eloquent, is bad. The purpose of prose
is to present the reader with the clearest
possible idea of what is being described
or expounded. Simplicity and eloquence
are not necessarily antipathetic. W. H.
Hudson was perhaps the best prose writer
in English of his time. His style is simple,
but charged with poetic feeling. There
is strong poetic feeling, too, in that mas-
terpiece of English prose, the James I
translation of the Bible. The translators
used wherever possible plain words of
Anglo-Saxon origin. There are scarcely
any Latinisms. “Remarkable it is,” said
Leigh Hunt, “that most of the sublimities
in the Bible are conveyed in mono-
syllables. For example: ‘Let there be
light: and there was light.’ ”
Some of the greatest orators have used
mainly simple words to get their effects.
It has been the way they handled them
that counted. Addison, Steele, Swift and
Goldsmith are generally considered by
critics as masters of English prose. None
of them went in for high-flown language.
Poetry, too, does not lose from simplicity
in wording. W. H. Davies and John
Clare, for example, wrote their lyrics in
very simple language, but how vividly
they pictured the life of the English
countryside. Many of Tennyson’s most
striking descriptions of nature are also
simply expressed.
The greater eloquence to be found in
the 18th-century House of Commons
than in a modem Australian Parliament
—or, for that matter, the British Parlia-
ment —was due mainly to three causes.
Members were drawn from a highly-
educated ruling-class, well acquainted
with the works of the great orators of the
past. There was no party-machine with
its strong discipline, use of the gag by
the Government, or any of the other
modem developments restrictive of the
freedom of action of the individual mem-
ber. A fine speech might then change the
course of a debate; one seldom does
today. Also, there was far less Parlia-
mentary business, and hence more time
for oratory. Modern Parliamentarians
are drawn from all classes of the popu-
lation, and few have had any training in
oratory.
If the average Australian’s ordinary
vocabulary is roughly equivalent to a
17th-century English peasant’s that is not
necessarily a reproach. Peasants are not
invariably inarticulate. Sometimes they
have a surprisingly wide command of
language— Altle (N.S.W.).
>
Ch , i ' nc f ! "
The fact is that Australia is nq
very well equipped for the overseas tourist
who is not prepared to put up with
tke half-hearted service and indifferent
accommodation so frequently offered,
. Beautiful scenery alone loses much of
lts attraction unless accompanied \
generous attention to the creature com-
forts, wiJing and attentive service, an
all the other adjuncts to pleasurable
travel that are to be found almost every-
wk®re e l se m the world except Austra la.
iU Here u y° u do / yourself or pay
through the nose for almost everything
the tourist finds as part of the seivice
everywhere else he goes. The traveller
from overseas is not fond of humping his
own baggage, to which we have become
accustomed, and details of this kind soon
become known where tourists look for
information.
So today the few people who come to
Australia do so for business purposes and
depart as soon as they can. They soon
learn that without early forward-book-
ings hotels are liable to be booked-up,
and that even if they can get in, the service
they expect is either non-existent or an
expensive extra.
The 1956 Olympics is our chance for
the greatest boost our country has ever
had to make ourselves known to the
Northern Hemisphere, where the tourists
come from. It may never occur again. It
is up to us to- look round and do some-
thing to remedy our deficiencies—some-
thing to bring us into line with the rest
of the white world ; an effort to supply
visitors with what they want, rather than
what we think they ought to “make do
with.
We should remember that the thousands
of Australians who fill the ships going
overseas do so largely because they can
get, from the moment they step aboard
the ship, something they can seldom ge
here: polite and willing service. That is
the key to the tourist-trade. Shellback
(N.S.W.).


Amrr ~~*.isation
Misapprehension of Americanisation,
which has an entirely different concept
in non-imperial U.S.A., is come upon so
frequently in many quarters that it is
worth discovering what is really meant
by the term. For a while the myth was
rampant in Canada, until, with Canada s
growth and the nationalising of immi-
grants from U.S.A. —many of whom now
contribute to the boom in progiess—it
lost face and footing. Russia, while
making use of science and technology
developed in America, has need for per-
petuating and spreading the myth. In
England and Australia it flourishes on
xenophobic superstitions.
Prefigurations of the modernism mis-
called Americanisation show up far back
in history; the polity it picked up is
traceable to the ancient Greeks, Its
present-day shape took on form in revolu-
tionary England of the 17th century,
plus influences arising from the Machine
Age and the Industrial Revolution.
Dignity of the individual and the
sanctity of his beliefs, following a line
of thought present in Magna Carta and
finding more mature form during the
Renaissance, broke into general social
consciousness when written into the
American Constitution and its Bill of
Rights. In Britain this chance was passed
by when Blackstone and those after him
hedged, when enunciating their theory
of private property, by insistence that the
propertyless respect the rights of property,
failing at the same time to lay duties upon
the propertied. On top of this dereliction
the implications of Adam Smith’s Wealth
of Nations, that the wealth of a nation
is determined primarily by the skills and
dexterities of its population, were over-
looked by the ruling-classes.
This at a time when Britain was moving
into the lead as a commercial and indus-
trial Power. The full effect was not to
be apprehended until generations later.
The men who assumed charge of trade
and -industry had their origins largely
among the middle-classes. Ambitious,
and often Calvinist-minded, they sought to
break into the aristocracy and, through
worldly success, gain right of way into
Heaven. They concentrated upon over-
seas markets, neglecting on-the-spot
home-consumers as not much worth
while. The latter, thus deprived of the
use and enjoyment of the products of
their skills and dexterities, became, as
Toynbee puts it, without stake in the com-
munity, of and not in the community,
with adverse effects on social life and
national culture.
Meantime, in the New World waves of
immigrants, fleeing the shackles of
Europe’s feudal climate, began to absorb
the principles of the American Constitu-
tion. They found class-rights on the way
out with the divine rights of kings ; some-
"H e’s not terribly young or glamorous, but he's got
lots and lots of sheep."
what as, on smaller scale, peoples from
Europe found political and religious
sanctuary during the 16th and 17th cen-
turies in England. They also came in
free contact with the immense resources
of the new nation.
When Henry Ford produced his engine
for individual passenger-transport on
wheels he quickly identified his market,
and with an inspiring gong struck two
notes that made economic harmony —
worker-consumers counter-pointed with
mass-production. Raising the wages of
his semi-skilled workers to a height that
enabled them to buy his cars and follow
the now-established American tradition
of going where they pleased when they
pleased, he started the modern trend of
what in other lands in 1955 is called
Americanisation. As a result, automobile-
manufacture now comprises 25 per cent,
of total U.S.A. manufacturing economy.
Modernism as it comes out of the
U.S.A. is no more American than it is
French. Americanisation to Americans
means no more than absorbing new-
comers into the prevailing civility along
the home-front, just as Australians with
New Australians in Australia. —B. N.
Fryer (Cal., U.S.A.).
Home-science
“Recla” (B. 30/3/’55) is slightly off
the beam in maintaining that too much
is spent on home-science in schools.
One girl I had in my kitchen recently
wondered what you did with a marrow
and had never heard of an avocado-pear.
In fact, I think a good deal more could
be spent on home-science appliances in
schools, with advantage to the commun-
ity. If the taxpayer must be spared, let
less be spent on sport and science in
general.
It smacks of snobbery to suggest that
girls who skip home - science and
specialise in languages possess superior
intelligence. Far from it. Anyone can
fag-up these fancy subjects. Given the
time and inclination, women after
school-days can take degrees just for the
fun of it. But today, with all the
electrical-appliances and the atomic-age
on the way, to manage a home needs a
power of learning about housework and
cooking. Doubtless, too, there would
be fewer accidents in the home if all
girls were required to do a period of
home-science training at school, just as
boys do their National Service training.
One is as important as the other. All
girls might well leave school with a
domestic-science diploma. After all, no
matter what they aim at as career-
seekers, the majority of them are fated
to be housewives. — Quisque (N.S.W.).
Holiday Road-toll
. An epidemic which dispached 45 per-
sons and left 268 disabled in four days
(the Easter road-toll) would call for im-
mediate investigation. But because the
figures were those of road-accidents the
community is not alarmed.
At the very least, public statements
on the causes of all fatal accidents would
serve to put motorists
generally on their
guard; even the
most careless could
hardly fail to take
notice of a published
statement of the
actual faults and
mistakes through
which others had
lost their lives. More
publicity of the
causes of actual
road - accidents
would, I believe,
have a greater de-
terrent effect on the
motoring public
than threats of
pros e c u tion for
breaches of traffic-
laws. Wusselean
(Vic.).
As this is a matter
of life and death,
shouldn’t garages be
made to do a full
check-up on all cars
left with them?
Here is a list of
things that should be
in perfect operating
condition before a
car can be con-
sidered 100 p.c. safe
for driving: Brakes,
rear - lights, front -
lights, exhaust-
system, steering,
windshield - wipers,
glass, horn, rear-view mirror, shock-
absorbers, hose-connections, fan-belt,
tyres (high preferences), brake-lights,
battery - cables, instrument - lights,
generator.
Although it may take 15 minutes to
check these items, it should be remembered
that that quarter of an hour could save a
driver from serious injury or death to
himself or other people.—Tas (Vic.).
“ Where abouts is the obscene literachoor , miss?"
Lawrence on Arabia
“Abdul Assiz” (B. 23 /3 / ’55) need not
have gone past the pages of Seven
Pillars of Wisdom for confirmation of
most of his criticism of T. E. Lawrence —
and its rebuttal.
Many critics have remarked that
Lawrence lacked self-understanding and
failed to reveal himself in Seven Pillars.
“Much frankness but no revelations,” is
the verdict of the Cambridge History of
English Literature. To my mind he has
shown too much.
For instance, “A.A.” refers to his
associations with the Arab rabble. So
does Lawrence. On page 581 (1940
edition) he tells us:
I liked the things underneath me and
took my pleasures and adventures
downward.
In the same passage he says:
There endured the after-taste of liberty
from one youthful submerged fortnight in .
Port Said, coaling steamers by day with
other outcasts of three continents and
curling up by night to sleep on the break-
water by De Lesseps.
Lawrence found a satisfaction in such
experiences, just as did many others in
literature and history who, like him,
“with men always had a sense of being
out of depth,” but found themselves at
home with strangers whether from
another land or another social level.
Such adventures gave him an under-
standing of the Arab, of great use when
he came to assist them in their revolt. It
also taught him how to manage Arab
dress, which he put on, not “as a young
man in fancy-dress” (Lawrence’s own
phrase), but because he was asked to do
so by Feisal, “because the tribesmen
would understand how to take” him.
Until then “the only wearers of khaki
in their experience had been Turkish
officers, before whom they took up an
instinctive defence.” Feisal himself
supplied the costume, “splendid white
silk and gold-embroidered wedding-
garments which had been sent to Feisal
lately by his great-aunt in Mecca.”
Lawrence himself is responsible for
most of our confusion on the subject of
the British promise to the Arabs,
although he, “not being a perfect fool,
could see that if we won the war the
promises to the Arabs were dead paper.”
The date of writing is important here,
for there is a footnote on page 283 which
adds: —
1919: but two years later Mr. Winston
Churchill was entrusted by our harassed.
Cabinet with the settlement of the Middle
East; and in a few weeks, at his confer-
ence in Cairo, he made straight all the
tangle, finding solutions fulfilling (1 think)
our promises in letter and spirit (where
humanly possible).
These results required cash. Lawrence
himself tells us that “their [the British]
total help to the Arabs in materials and
money exceeded ten-million pounds.”
Vyvyan Richards gives the amount of
gold as “more than half a million.” As
the cost on all fronts was something like
a million a day, this sum, although
generous, as Lawrence admits, is by no
means the “unlimited funds” referred
to by “A.A.”
It is true that some of the gold went
in “gifts” to the Arab sheikhs —Auda
collected £lOOO, for example—but some
also went in payment of wages to the
“rabble,” £6 per month for the hire of
soldier and camel: Nor did the gold
begin to flow until after the first of his
minor successes, at Wejh; and the full
flood did not begin until the advent of
Allenby, after Akaba.—L. R. M. H.
(W.A.).
Newspaper Prose
Simple English (B. 30/3/’55)? Here
is a sample of the other kind, from an
English Sunday paper (May 30, 1954),
knocked-off by its writer after seeing a
short film of Pavlova:
I saw her tragic neck, her transparent
Russian-Jewish face and her eyes brimming
over with the Odyssey -and the Divina
Commedia and the Complete Works of
Shakspeare.
This sickening overwriting is typical
of much modern newspaper prose, especi-
ally that turned on by literary and
musical critics of the kind who think
their own personalities are more import-
ant than the subject-matter in hand. In
which respect what a pleasure it was to
turn from some of the others to The
Bulletin’s critique of the Sylvia Fisher
concert! Like English “Punch” and
American “New Yorker,” come hell and
bad weather the Australian Bulletin
retains its own inimitable prose personal-
ity and does not sacrifice either subject
or commonsense to mere verbiage. And
there’s much to be thankful for there.
Not that authors don’t give critics a
lead at times. Take this final sentence
from Sir Ronald Storrs’s Lawrence of,
Arabia : —
That vast convulsion of human nature,
the Great Four Years’ War, may have
thrown up more important world figures;
none more gallantly yet practically
romantic than the shy, slight, unaccount-
able emanation of genius who will live in
universal as well as in English history as
Lawrence of Arabia.
Surely that itself was enough to throw
up the present controversy over
Lawrence. —B. M. W. (N.S.W.).
Teaching Girls
The trend of secondary education for
girls is lamentable in more ways than
those mentioned by “Recla” (B. 30/3/’55).
It doesn’t require a great deal of con-
centration or intellect to peel a potato,
sweep a room or wash the dishes, but
many of those “sweet little girls in
starched white uniforms” will spend a lot
of their later years doing those and simi-
lar jobs. If they are going to let these
monotonous necessities be their main
thoughts they are in for a dreary life,
and so are their husbands and children.
By all means teach them to do these
things quickly and properly—even set
aside a few months during school-time
if they can’t be taught l at home. But teach
them something else, too. Give them a
start along some more intellectual track;
a chance to escape from domestic discon-
tent by being able to rise above it. Even
an elementary study of history, geo-
graphy, languages and literature during
childhood can keep the adult at leasl
abreast of current affairs.
My personal horror in education? is
the trend towards the specialist, with the
fields of learning lamentably narrowed to
“scientific” or “arty” courses, both pro-
ducing an unbalanced outlook. The whole
purpose of school-life seems to centre
too much on passing exams., rather than
on laying a solid, sensible, broadminded
foundation' for the mind to build upon
for the rest of life. — Dicky (N.S.W.),


{urSASHtS
PROOF,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
u
m
mm
m
\
wm
ia
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pfy. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT’S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOX."
SOLDIERS AND THE LAND
THE public announcement on
April 21 that a ballot for four
modest blocks of farm-land near
Corowa (N.S.W.) attracted 922
soldier-settler aspirants, 10 years
after the war, is a fair indica-
tion of how far Government
promises outstrip departmental
performance.
Nothing—or, at least, not
much—has been learnt from the
botch-and-bungle of soldier-
settlement after the First World
War ; the botchery then cost the
Commonwealth some £2O mil-
lion, and, worse, lost 'to Aus-
tralia the opportunity of putting
tens of thousands of good Aus-
tralians on the land. Failure of
the scheme after 1918 was due
mainly to lack of planning.
Willing but inexperienced men
were put on blocks of good, bad
and indifferent land and left to
fend for themselves, or to de-
pend on help and advice of a
casual nature.
Those who made good did so
because they were lucky, or
because they had had farming
or grazing experience ; a good
many gave it away and returned
to the city.
In the second post-war period
political expediency has been
the main stumbling-block. When
the N.S.W. Government is not
blaming the Federal Govern-
ment for hindering its efforts to
get men on to blocks, it is pro-
claiming loudly that it has
opened up hundreds of thous-
ands of acres already for soldier-
settlers. A good many of these
are in the Western Lease area,
where blocks vary in size from
10,000 to 100,000 acres. This
land, subject to drought, is no
catch for a man with small capi-
tal. Carrying-capacity is from
a sheep to six acres to a sheep
to 30 acres. Management is
difficult and expensive. The big
pastoralists who formerly grazed
these areas had capital behind
them to sustain them in dry
times, or had relief-country to
the east where their sheep could
be pastured in time of drought.
Of late years soldier-settlers in
the western area have been
lucky—we’ve had some wonder-
ful years. It doesn’t follow that
the luck will continue.
The logical area for closer-
settlement in N.S.W. is in the
eastern division. Against this,
the argument is put up that the
eastern area is already settled.
Well, let’s have a look at the
figures.
Drawing a line north-south
through, say, Wellington, to the
east of this the rainfall is
roughly better than 16in. a year.
It embraces such high-class,
extensive tracts as the North
Coast, New England, Liverpool
Plains, Southern Tablelands,
South Coast and the eastern
Riverina; these, together with
areas not mentioned, comprise
farming and grazing land equal
to any in the world.
This eastern half of N.S.W.
carries a population of about
3,250,000, of which 2,250,000 are
in Sydney, Newcastle and
Wollongong. The remaining mil-
lion is spread over the rural sec-
tion referred to above, an area
the size of Italy, which country
—poor, by comparison, in agri-
cultural potentialities —carries a
population of about 50 million.
If any Australian Govern-
ment thinks it’s doing its job
while ignoring this aspect of
land-settlement, it will get a rude
shock when the Darling country
has its next big drought.
Frederick Aarons.
Sales Diaries
Graziers commonly travel fair
distances, buying sheep, or not
buying, according to the state of
the market. Many of them carry
a notebook, in which they jot-
down prices ruling at various
sales and brief particulars of
sheep offering.
It’s not a bad idea to copy
these notes into a permanent
diary. There are agents’ reports,
of course, printed in local papers
and, sometimes, in papers with
larger circulations; but these
reports, naturally enough, do not
concentrate on what interests the
individual buyer or seller. And,
in other respects, they are less
valuable than one’s personal
observations, placed on
permanent record.
The following, from notes
taken at various N.S.W. sales,
gives a fair indication of the
market for store-sheep from
August, 1954, to April, 1955.
Commentary is based on per-
sonal attendance at sales:
August, 1954: Demand for
store-sheep only fair and values
irregular, but when quality came
into the market a firming ten-
dency brought prices to ss. a
head dearer. In the north-west,
August-September (’53) drop
Merino wethers, June-shorn,
sold at 85s.
Quality lines: central and
north-west, two- and four-tooth
wethers, attractive wool-cutters,
full wool, 6gns.
Other prices, same area: 845.,
lyr. wethers, shorn July.
September, 1954: “Wait-and-
see” policy, pending wool-sales
and seasonal conditions.
Grasshopper plague, later in
the month, influenced prices.
But, at same time, a noticeable
demand for off-shears sheep in
central and Riverina districts.
Inquiries also for c.f.a. ewes,
suitable for joining with long-
wool rams, from north-west and
southern districts.
North-west: 1300 Merino
wethers, Sept.-Oct. (1953) drop,
March-shorn (five-months wool-
growth), £5. Riverina: 450 X-
bred lambs £4 12s. 6d.: 900
mixed-sex, X-bred lambs, £4.
Central-west: (sheep being
Shorn) 2000 Merino wethers,
2yrs., one mark, in good condi-
tion, 80s.
Junee: Merino ewes, good
quality, 435. Id.
Coonamble: Crossbred
hoggets, 82s,
The next sale saw lambs dearer
by 4s. to Bs. a head.
Improvement: Queensland
and northern N.S.W. buyers
bought-up big late in the month.
Wether weaners, Sept.-Oct.
(1953) drop, shorn July, 925.
Ewe portion, same flock, 91s.
January-shorn, 2£yr. wethers,
£5 3s. 3d.
October, 1954: Main shearing-
month in Riverina, and more
particularly in Gundagai and
Cootamundra districts [Mrs.
“Scratch a bit higher up , Joey”
Last writes from a property near
Tumblong, in the Gundagai
district]. Hence, many local
buyers were kept busy at home.
State-wide rains had the effect
of reducing the number of sheep
offering at Homebush. But in
the Central-west prices were:
2yr. Merino wethers, Sept.-
shorn, 765.; Merino, m.s., l£yr.,
Feb.-shorn, 100 s.
At Peak Hill, at that time,
4£yr. to syr. Merino ewes with
70 per cent, lambs at foot, ewes
unshorn, sold at 90s. Crossbred
ewes, Sept.-shorn, sold to 85s.
November: A cheaper market.
At Cootamundra, Merino ewes
sold at 325. Bethungra, shorn
weaners to 38s. Id. Fluctuating
market at Cootamundra, and
prices 3s. to ss. easier.
At Wagga, 2yr. Merino
wethers, shorn August, made
845., and early-shom Corriedale
lambs, April-May drop, reached
575. 6d.
Towards the end of November,
at Cootamundra, 22,000 sheep
were yarded for one sale —all
sold. One-year-old Merino
ewes, just shorn, brought 645.
One-year Merino wethers,
October-shorn, 575. At Young,
lyr. Merino ewes, September-
shorn, made to 785., wether
portion, 735. Values were 15s. to
20s. better than at the previous
sale at Young. Paddock sales,
same district, August-shorn
Merino wethers, 2|yr. in a fairly
big line, 745.
Binalong (Yass district) had
some good Merinos offering, and
keen buyers.
The usual holiday inactivity in
January, 1955. But some good
buys at Hay and Bourke for
those who weren’t at Manly,
Bondi, Avalon and such seaside
places.
Increased demand in February
for all types of store-sheep, con-
tinuing into late February.
Buyers were more keen to bid
for second-grade lines because
top-quality sheep were harder to
get. March-shorn 4yr. Merino
ewes brought sgns. in the
Riverina. At Forbes, for
c.f.a. ewes, Willandra-bred.
Three-year-old ewes, June-shorn,
made £6 6s. *
Which brings us pretty well up
to the present time, with prices
following the pattern for
February in March and
April. Despite the floods. In
fact, many graziers who have
held off restocking for one reason
or another, at time of writing
find they have left their run a
bit late.
That by the way. My point is
that some such record as this
gives a very fair indication of
general trends, and a basis on
which to work for buying or sell-
ing in the future.
Mary Last.
Improving Bread
♦
“Komu”: Melbourne’s bread
isn’t as good as it used to be,
according to various reports.
Who’s to blame is a bit difficult ■
to decide. Consumers blame the
bakers, bakers blame the millers,
millers blame the farmers.
The farmers apportion part of
the blame to the other two major
sections of the industry—-
especially the millers, who seem
unwilling to pay premiums for
high-quality wheat, which makes
better flour, which makes bakers
and exporters happier.
One big contributing factor to
poor-quality bread is the indus-
trial rule which brings working-
hours in the bakery to limits
within which it is hard to make
a good loaf —even with the help
of mechanisation.
But even correction of this
would not guarantee the kind of
bread we all like to eat. Every-
one has to do his part. Farmers
can help greatly by growing
wheat under longer rotations, in
which sub.-clover or barrel medic
is grown while the land is out of
cultivation. Millers can help by
providing an incentive for
farmers to produce better-
quality grain. And bakers can
do a better job with the available
materials.
By the way, the addition of
non-fat milk-powder will not
make bad bread good, says Eric
Bond, director of the Bread
Institute of Australia. But milk-
powder can make good bread
better; there’s still room for
improvement in the standard of
the evaporated skim-milk. Bond
advises dairymen to conduct
their own promotion-campaign,
and not to expect the bakers to
sell all the milk-powder for them.
Rye
“Black Loaf”: Like “Secale”
(B. 13/4/’55), I’m a bit sur-
prised at rye being called rye-
corn. Most farmers here on
the Darling Downs (Q.) grew a
little rye in the ’seventies and
’eighties, not only because it was
quick-growing green-feed for
winter, but also for grain.
In those days farmers usually
had their next year’s flour gristed
from their own wheat, and, as
the wheat was susceptible to
rust, many grew a few acres of
rye as a reserve.
Rye is a tall cereal. The
largest steam-threshers of the
famous English makers used to
be sold in the rye-growing
countries of northern Europe.
TV for Farmers
“Avoca”: Professor S. M.
' Wadham, Melbourne Uni-
versity’s School of Agriculture,
thinks television could be an
excellent medium of education
for farmers, but, at the present
stage, he thinks its introduction
to Australia undesirable:
Reason, it will be at the expense
of more urgent developmental
work.
The occasiori was a presiden-
tial address to the Melbourne
University Agricultural Society.
As an example of what television
could do, the professor men-
tioned illustration of plant
diseases (such as “rust” in
wheat) which are difficult to
describe effectively over the
radio.
Television would have the
added advantage of attracting
stronger attention from farmer-
viewers than it is possible to
obtain from the average listener
to a radio-talk.
Facial Eczema
“Billjim”: Facial eczema, a
common complaint of sheep (and
even cattle) in autumn, follow-
ing early rains, may be combated
by the following methods:
Send killable lambs to the
works immediately rains fall and
transfer remaining lambs to


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
■
■
.
M&
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with fitst-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Booms—
From 15/- per day
Double Booms—
From 27/- per day
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE ”
Telephone No. 80522
(16 lines).
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
me n t illus-
trated is the
World-famous
“FARMERS >
£
BOY” STEPPED - AXLE
PLOUGH.
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd-.
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launcestoiy
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
r
Consult us for
all yovar
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
* AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING- INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
brassica crops or pure white-
clover swards. If these are not
available, put them on the
roughest pasture.
% In the case of “Sheep, if they
can’t be put on these crops, con-
centrate them at not fewer than
100 sheep per acre. Feed hay
at 21b. per ewe and provide
adequate water. Even where no
hay is available, starvation for
a fortnight will not harm mature
sheep.
For cattle, concentrate them
at not fewer than 20 per acre,
or place them in the roughest
paddock for the first week after
rains and rotate them at short
intervals through the longest
pasture available.
Dairy-cows should have their
feed supplemented by silage or
other succulent fodder.
»
Giant Couch
“W. Court”: Para-grass, or
giant couch, is a great grower
on sour, marshy country in parts
of Queensland where very few
useful grasses will grow. It has
the same twining, running habit
of other couches, but its runners
may reach a length of 100yds.,
or even more.
Roots form at the joints,
pegging - down the surface -
runners and sending up shoots
vertically to sft. Propagation is
quickest with rooted runners ;
the grass seeds sparsely in many
districts.
Though chiefly a hot-weather
grower, it makes fairly con-
stant year-long growth in the
warmer parts of the State. A
useful grass on the dairy-farm.
Humus
“Menin”: Over the last 20
years many claims have been
made by “organic” farmers and
others for the value of humus in
the soil; some have gone so far
as to say that superphosphate
and other chemical fertilisers
were unnecessary, or harmful.
In the “Mallee Horticulture
Digest” R. O. Kefford, Victorian
Agricultural Department’s veget-
able-research officer, gives the
opinion that humus has the effect
of:
1. Opening-up heavy soil to
improve aeration and water-
penetration.
2. Binding sandy soils and
protecting them from wind-
erosion.
3. Retaining essential plant-
foods in some sandy soils from
which they would normally be
washed-out.
4. Preventing rapid changes
in acidity and alkalinity.
5. Retaining moisture in sandy
soils.
6. Supplying food for desir-
able soil-fungi and -bacteria.
Care of Rubber Tyres
“C.A.A.”: It will still be
some time before the tubeless-
tyre becomes standard on farm-
implements ; meantime, every
care should be taken with air-
tyres.
With the exception of tractor-
tyres, which are usually sub-
jected to more work and higher
stresses, there’s no reason why
tyres shouldn’t give a life of five
to 10 years, with proper main-
tenance.
Implements with air-tyres
should be kept in the .shed if
possible ; in the absence of suffi-
cient shed-space, cover tyres
with sacks.
Don’t leave implements in the
paddocks for long periods.
Make a habit of bringing all
machines up to the house when
seasonal work is completed.
They are under your eye —a
reminder to reinflate periodi-
cally.
Make sure you know the right
working-pressure for the load,
and during period of work check
at least once a week.
If a tyre is cut or damaged
sufficiently to penetrate the tread
into the casing, have it repaired
immediately.
Never allow tyres to remain
in contact with oil or grease.
Clean with a little petrol.
Take care where there are
rocks or stumps: severe impact-
blows undqr load can cause
fractures. This is particularly
so with main-wheels on headers
when the seedbox is full.
Lamb-growth and
Minor Elements
“Big Billy”: Tests in N.Z.
have demonstrated that no
marked growth of lambs can be
expected from the use of com-
plex minor-element mixtures for
topdressing.
Trials by I. J. Cunningham at
the Animal Research Station,
Wallaceville, confirm what is
already known by our own
C.5.1.R.0. —that the separate
minor-elements will produce a
notable response on those soils
deficient in the particular
element.
For instance, Cunningham
found that mixtures containing
cobalt will produce better
growth in weaned lambs if used
on soils deficient in this element.
Mixtures containing molyb-
denum will produce more pas-
tures if used on molybdenum-
deficient soils, and mixtures con-
taining copper may welt pro-
duce more pasture Tin sandy and
peat soils.
Use of the remaining minor-
elements represented a waste of
money so far as New Zealand
was concerned, Cunningham
says.
Reinforcing Concrete-
posts
“Joe”: Unless reinforcing-
steel is correctly spaced in
concrete posts much time and
material will be wasted; posts
won’t stand up to the strains put
on them.
Stirrups should be used to
hold the reinforcing-rods to the
correct spacing for the type of
post being made. Stirrups are a
necessity if a vibrator is to be
used during the making of the
posts, as ’ the vibrating action
tends to cause the rods to move
after placing in the moulds.
If a vibrator is not used, the
rods can be placed by hand as
the moulds are filled, but care
should be taken to see that they
are not moved subsequent
tamping.
Best way to make stirrups is
to drive four studs into a bench
at the same distance apart as
the rods are to be spaced. Then
loop 10- or 12 - gauge wire
around the studs with four holes
through which the rods can be
passed.
By alternating the position of
the wire-ends on different
stirrups, rods can be placed
accurately.
Farm Hints
“Jaydee”: Can confirm “Luke”
(B. 6/4/’55). Radio B-batteries
will probably outlast the A-
battery, but when the set begins
to crackle before the second A-
battery runs down, it’s time to
change the B-batteries. Crackles
when there are no storms about
are a sure sign that B-batteries
are getting low.
“Danny”: Clay soils of heavy
texture are unsuitable for
plants: little breathing-space for
roots, and these become water-
logged in wet weather. Fertil-
isers have little effect on such
soil. Sand is a good conditioner
for clay; added in sufficient
quantities, and worked in, will
convert soil into a semi-sandy-
loam.
“Turnin’’: Green - manure
crops should be dug-in at the
flowering stage. The longer
such crops stand the more fibre
they develop. This means much
longer under the ground before
decomposition turns them into
plant-food.
“Sundowner”: During
autumn, when green-feed for
poultry is scarce, it’s often advis-
able to boost the diet with a
good-quality fish-oil. Mix either
with the mash or grain at two
tablespoons to every 51b. of total
food. Mix the oil each day, as it
loses its vitamin-content when
left exposed to the air. See
that container in which the oil is
kept is air-tight.
“Morayda”: Before bringing
freshly-mustered cattle into a new
camp, have someone canter
ahead to pick up any old papers.
Less than a fluttering paper can
cause a panic among beasts that
haven’t been handled much, and
the speed with which scared
cattle can get going is amazing.
“Sundowner”: Oversowing of
a sub-standard dairy-pasture
should be done during autumn
or early winter. See that the
pasjpre is eaten-down hard,
lightly disked with little cut on
the disks, or harrowed severely
to produce a light covering of
loose earth. Up to 151 b, per
acre of either short-rotation or
perennial rye-grass can be sown.
Don’t sow less than 51b. per acre
—clover 21b. Use the harrows
again to cover seed.
“X.”: Don’t put fowl-food
out at night to save time in the
morning. It encourages vermin,
especially rats, and leads to
uneven feeding. The greedy
fowls will come out in the moon-
light or before break of day and
gorge themselves at the expense
of their mates.
“Wilco”: Easy method of
pouring oil from a can into an
almost inaccessable hole in a
machine: stick one end of a fine
wire into the spout of the oil-can
and the other end into the oil-
hole. Oil will follow wire into
the machine without .a drop being
lost.
“Bill C.”: For the home-
garden: If the seed-bed dries-out
completely it’s probable the seeds
won’t germinate. To make sure
of a constant damp top-soil, rub
a few dried clods of horse-dung
to powder over the bed immedi-
ately after sowing the seed and
watering the bed. The light layer
of manure will hold the moisture.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(24/4/’55)
During May, general rains likely throughout the whole
of N S.W. and Victoria. Reasonably general rains should
also fall in South Australia, but winter rains likely to be
below normal.
Heaviest falls should occur on the coast of N.S.W.,
and flooding is possible.
These falls may be associated with a cyclonic dis-
turbance; one (in the cycle) developed off Southern
Queensland in the latter half of May and moved down
the coast, giving rough seas and gale-force winds.
The sun continues to remain clear of spots.
LENNOX WALKER
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
"The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers,' students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/8.
Send name and address with
postal note.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Fty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
I
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
nationality is nonsense when it
is applied to individuals. The
man with the broken accent may
be seething with great ideas or
working himself up to a crime of
violence —just like the dinkum
Aussie who says in a bar, “Give
us a light. Dig.” You won’t
know until you know that
particular man.
In the meanwhile, give him
the benefit of the doubt—but
not too much benefit. If he says
he’s invented the perpetual-
motion machine, he’s a liar. If
he tells you his father was one
of the Tsar’s generals he may be
only exaggerating. If he
announces that he has an idea
for a book, or a poem, or a
process for manufacturing
clothes-pegs that don’t dissolve
fingernail-lacquer, it might be
true.
Judge your fellow-Australians,
old or new, on what they sa>
and how they perform, not by
your idea of the characteristics
of their race —or yours and you
won’t go far wrong.
The New Australia will be
better than the old one.
Pineapple-Parable
by H. Cline
morton
WE had a good creek, Gilly
and I, made for swim-
ming without togs, and
catching fish in.
The town-kids used a river
with black-bream bigger and
fiercer than the lazy mud-cod of
our creek, but the river was an
impersonal, public-shared piece
of water, filled with many
hazards, like rocky rapids to
skin-shins, megass to bung-ears
and schoolmasters watching for
young smokery. l Besides, girls
went there.
Sometimes though, we envied
the town-kids their black-bream,
and for a while we lost faith in
an Almighty who placed a river
so close to a town, but mostly
our little personal creek was
enough. Onpe we could ride
right down to the bank on our
horses, but Pawpaw cleared the
bottom flat and planted there
pineapples and bananas.
With this planting came
complications.
There is always that land-
holder’s ingrained suspicion of
boys who pass through orchards.
We held no wish to court the
suspicion of Pawpaw. He was
big, remote, and frightening,
heavy with years, twenty-five of
them at least, eyes keen as a kite-
hawk and legs good for chasing.
There came a time when the
detouring round the fruit-patch
began to offend our ideas of the
fitness of things. One day we
rode through it.
Pawpaw met our challenge
with a fence.
Gilly eyed it from the saddle.
“A man ought to cut it,” he
said, but his tone held no
sincerity. We both knew the
sacredness of fences and gates.
We cantered up the fence look-
ing for an opening. Gilly
specialised in the stand-up style
of riding fashionable amongst
circus-performers. His two great-
toes were designed for such
things, they gripped the stirrup-
leathers like twin vices.
I let him have the monopoly
on this, preferring a Geronipio
approach, swung parallel to the
horse’s side, built from a matinee
Western. I was very proud of
my Indian riding. It had cost me
four weeks’ practice and** three
front-teeth.
The fence was barren of gates.
Gilly climbed through it. 1
tried, but a barbed-wire strand
clutched at my seat. Gilly
walked virtuously ahead, and
patiently inspected a bunch of
green bananas. His interest was
purely academic.
npHUS, when Pawpaw leapt out
1 at him yelling, “You flamin’
thieving young hound!” the
insult was many-sided.
“Just as though a man would
let you see him if he came after
bananas,” Gilly yelled %at
Pawpaw as he ran.
Pawpaw increased his pace.
“You think I wouldn’t know
your dirty old bananas weren’t
ripe,” Gilly flung behind him, as
he forged ahead. The fence cut
short his indignity.
And was the cause of a new
one. For as he dropped to his
knees to crawl beneath it,
Pawpaw, with a mighty flexing
of thigh - muscles, kicked him
through.
It was doubly wrong, this
kicking of a suspected plunder-
ing backside. Tradition had
prepared us for shotguns and
saltpetre, and we had a right to
expect their use. A backside
punctured by saltpetre could be
cooled in creek water, tweezered
in secret, and a peculiar height
of attainment reached by its
display to interested friends in
school toiles. We had no
potency against a kick.
I mounted and led Gilly’s
horse to him at a canter.
His clutching fingers dragged
him into the saddle a foot in
front of Pawpaw’s descending
arm. I did a Geronimo as
Pawpaw lifted great stones from
the roadway and hurled them at
us with sizzling velocity. He was
very wild. We kept our anger
and the martyrdom of the
wrongly accused under tight
rein. You could easily learn to
hate a backside-kicker. Gilly
was even gracious enough to pay
tribute to talent.
“Jeezers, he can kick!” he said.
We waited two hours before
we returned. Warily we rode to
the fence.
“I think he’s gone home,” I
ventured. “Maybe if we sneaked
in ... ”
“Hang on,” insisted Gilly;
“I’ve got an idea. See that old
blue carbon-disulphide drum
sticking out from behind that
banana-tree? I’ll rattle it up a
bit, and see if Pawpaw hears the
noise and comes out.”
He took a shanghai out of his
shirt, slid from his horse and
crept to the road. Here beside
the road the shire council, with
the same far-sighted thorough-
ness that made them place
hairpin-corners close to remote
after-hour hotels as a gauge
where home-driving pilgrims
could test their sobriety, had
dumped three loads of light
water-washed gravel. Here were
the best shanghai-stones for
30 miles.
ILLY returned to the fence
and the tractor-tube thongs
of his shanghai drew back a full
arm’s-length.
“He’ll hear this hit the drum if
he’s around,” Gilly claimed.
He probably would have. For
the stone hit square and hard.
But I heard no ring of stone on
steel. Heard only the thud of
stone on bone, and the agonised
yell, saw the blue carbon-
disulphide drum leap from
behind the banana-tree, showing
no drum but the leg of Pawpaw's
blue dungarees! *
“Well, fancy that,” said Gilly
softly, with the expression in his
eyes of the seeker after perfect
truth. “It wasn’t a drum- at* all.”
I watched fascinated, the strange
one-legged ballet of Pawpaw as
he clutched his bluing kneecap.
“You murdering little swine,”
he bellowed, hopping towards
us. He plucked a hoe from the
ground and flung it erratically at
me.
“We thought you were a drum.
Pawpaw,” I explained.
“I think,” Gilly put in sagely,
“we had better go ... ”
We stayed home most of the
afternoon. Stayed while the sun
sucked the air from the valley,
and a dry hot wind, fanned a
torment across the paddocks.
“Pawpaw or no Pawpaw,”
Gilly proclaimed, “I’ve got to go
for a swim.”
We swept out in a wide circle,
away house of Pawpaw,
framed with the pawpaw-trees,
to whose fruit he was addicted.
We had no horse to handicap
us, if we were put to sudden
flight. We reached the creek in
safety, and swam in cautious and
unreal silence. It was an empty,
lifeless experience. Gilly
crocodiled himself on to the
clayey bank.
“It’s no good,” he protested
softly. “There’s no use in swim-
ming if you can’t kick up a row.”
I joined him in wordless
mourning for our lost pleasure.
A desire to break the painfulness
of the mood came to me.
“How’s your behind?” I asked
conversationally.
Resentment flared across
Gilly’s face.
“A man ought to get even with
him,” he exploded. “A man
ought to pinch some of his
bananas to show him.” He
beamed. “Bunches of them.”
Then feeling the stinted ness of
mere bunches he flung out his
arms to include the whole
universe.
“No, not bunches,” he
amended. “Truckloads of the
flamin’ things.”
The extravagance of this
vision of Pawpaw’s banana-
patch being depleted by the
truckload alarmed me.
“There’s none ripe,” I pointed
out. Gilly’s face fell at this
unfair logic.
Ashamed, I looked around for
the condolence of an alternative.
“His pineapples are ripe,” I
offered.
Gilly jumped to his feet.
“Let’s get a shirtful,” he
demanded.
Remembering the truckloads
of bananas I felt a sudden
recklessness. “Let’s get two
bloody shirtfuls,” I said.
Gilly sat beside the creek,
peeling his sixth pineapple with
the lid of an abandoned jam-tin.
He belched softly.
“They make your tongue a bit
sore,” he declared.
I painfully moved my tongue
across lips tortured by spikes of
poorly-peeled pineapples. My
distended stomach rumbled like
a miniature Stromboli.
“I won’t look at another pine-
apple for six months,” I
prophesied.
Gilly belched again. “Me
neither ...”
We crawled along the creek-
bank past the house of Pawpaw,
and down the cutting on our
hands and knees. Through the
cutting lay freedom, and time to
relive our triumph. Head down
I sneaked up the cutting until I
saw twin shadows inches ahead
in the dust. Shadows on the
ground like those thrown by
poplar-gums. I gazed heaven-
wards into the unfriendly face
of Pawpaw.
“Looking for something?” he
inquired. I rose shakily to my
feet.
“Pawpaw,” I began tragically,
“we thought you were a drum.”
The unfriendly face split in a
grin.
“Aw, that’s all right,” he
drawled. “We all make
mistakes.”
WE stood dumbfounded, with
no defence against this new
Pawpaw. Gilly stepped forward,
muscles tensed for flight, eyes
wary. I hopefully calculated the
running speed of Pawpaw handi-
capped by a bruised kneecap.
“You been for a swim?”
Pawpaw inquired urbanely. We
followed his tone with the
exquisite perception of extreme
youth, and through oui
suspicions we recognised the
profferred and fragile hand of
truce.
“That’s right, Pawpaw,” I
croaked.
Gilly lightly donned the Eden
cloak.
“By gee, Pawpaw,” he lilted,
“there’s no doubt about it; you
know how to grow bananas.
Look at the size of those trees.”
Pawpaw thawed still further.
Gilly pressed home his advan-
tage. “The old. man’s trees
never grow, anywhere near as big
as that. You must have the
touch.”
Pawpaw’s eyes glowed at the
compliment. “Why .don’t you
come up and sit under the house
out of the sun?” he invited
expansively.
We followed . his limping
figure. “Draw up a pew,” he
commanded. We sat down
delicately on two packing-cases.
Pawpaw glanced around with the
air of the perfect host seeking
further means of comfort for his
guests. He disappeared behind
a bench.
“Here you are, just what you
need on a hot day.” His out-
stretched hands framed the
golden glow of two giant
pineapples.
A surging rebellion writhed
in my stomach.
“No thanks, Pawpaw,” I
squeaked. Pawpaw’s eyes
widened.
“What? Kids knocking back
pineapples. Don’t be silly,” he
clucked. “Never saw a kid yet
who couldn’t down three or four
of these in the one sitting. Hang
on, I’ll peel them for you.”
We watched, in growing
horror, the passage of the slicing-
knife.
“I’m not really hungry,
Pawpaw,” I moaned. A hint of
suspicion crossed Pawpaw’s face.
Gilly’s eyes flashed a warning;
a warning that I was treading
a narrow pathway across the
delicate rim of Pawpaw’s
credence.
I resigned myself to the
inevitable.
“I was only kiddin’, Pawpaw,”
I muttered weakly. My protest-
ing jaws closed into the juicy
nightmare.
“Come on, come on, eat up,”
encouraged Pawpaw. “Full and
plenty for all, there’s stacks more
of them over here. ... ”
Twenty minutes and four pine-
apples later we staggered away
from the torture of Pawpaw’s
hospitality. We just reached the
bridge by the cutting. I lay
weakly on the edge, while the
surging rebellion of my stomach
overcame the shattered resistance
of my mind.
Gilly moaned pitifully beside
me, then he, too, thrust his head
over the bridge’s edge. We were
very sick . . .
Slowly the rumblings grew
less. The miniature Stromboli
lay temporarily dormant.
Gilly eyed me with all the
understanding and compassion
of a fellow-martyr, who sees the
unexpected winning of a cause
thought lost.
“Never mind,” he said; “it
was worth it. We made friends
with Pawpaw.”
THE MAN IN THE RIVER
To the rim of the leaf-tasting river, slow-moving, clay-worn,
My poor friend came down to lie with the willows over
And the sound of the town, dying, dying away
To the passing hooves of the horse, taking time’s measure.
Wary, his thoughts crouched Waiting to spring
To the hairs of his head, the ends of his fingers,
To his shoulders and thighs.
His eyelids lay light on his eyes.
Silent and fierce the battle Was joined.
O down on the leaf-tasting water the black swan set sail
Away from that place, who saw the grass'flatten and shiver
The branches recoil in the hush of decision.
My poor friend looked up at cloud caverns.
He lay with his hands on the earth, as open and still
As the fronds of the willow above
Awaiting the claws, the cunning and valorous claws
Of remembrance, of fear, and of love.
With his hand to my cheek, all day he had been
Like a man getting ready to leave when the ticket is torn
And the final word written or said.
Then under the yellowing sky he went down to the river,
The slow-moving, leaf-tasting river,
The subtle and secret, the river
That swam in its willowed and swan-sailing bed,
The leaf-fasting river that rose
So to crowd his mouth with her brew
And cure his fevers forever.
N.S.W.
ELIZABETH RIDDELL.


Get THE FACTS - - - About THE ATOM
☆ ATOMIC POWER FOR PEACE
☆ FOR THE BENEFIT OF ALL MANKIND
☆ THE ATOM SERVANT OF MAN
☆ PRESIDENT EISENHOWER ATOMIC AGE
These pamphlets available on request, in single or multiple copies,
FREE OF CHARGE
UNITED STATES INFORMATION SERVICE
46 Margaret Street, Sydney. Telephone: BX 7071.
SALOME Princess of Galilee —by
Henry Denker —the story of the beautiful
Salome, and her swift transformation from
a pagan girl in love, to a woman of great
understanding. “Henry Denker has made
the days of Jesus in Judaea live again . . .
I found it engrossing and stirring.’’ (Fulton
Oursler, author of The Greatest Story Ever
Told). 16/9 (post 9d.)
GOOD MORNING, MISS DOVE —by
Frances Gray Patton —the charming story
of a school-teacher, and the influence she had
on her pupils, “....she becomes so actual
that it is as though we, too, had once been
privileged to sit in her classroom just
about flawless and completely enchanting.”
(New York Herald Tribune.) Book Society
and Book-of-the-MQnth Club choice.
13/3 (post 9d.)
THE MlNT—by T. E. Lawrence —a day-
book of the R.A.F. Depot between August
and December, 1922, with later notes.
Lawrence enlisted in the R.A.F. under the
name of Ross, and his book is an accurate
description of the life- of a recruit in the
R.A.F. at this period. The atmosphere of
the barrack-room is faithfully recorded, and
his character sketches show high literary
skill. 29/- (Post 1/5)
You'll find all the hooks you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Melbourne, 0.1.
Available from all booksellers
POMPEY’S HEAD by HAMILTON BASSO
“THREE SUPERB NOVELS IN ONE . . .
A NOVEL OF SUSPENSE
... A NOVEL OF CHARACTER
... A NOVEL OF IDEAS”
PUBLISHED BY COLLINS
Pound tried to placate and ameliorate
the Edwardian and early Georgian
situation as he found it: his resuscita-
tions from old English had vigor, but
an unmistakable reek of ye Olde Eng-
lisshe; his translations from the Pro-
vencal are not even without what he
himself calls “tushery”; the lmagisme
he brought in from the French and the
East lay at the end of the teashop
banquet like a plate of unwanted
chocolate eclairs ...
Raising his head from his labors and
looking about him at some time around
1915, Pound saw the “standard”
Georgian poets going unquestioningly
about their business of writing, in neat
compartments, epics, verse-epistles,
odes, fables, satires, narrative tales and
great philosophic illuminations of the
nature of things—poetry which every-
one approved and nobody read —and
vers-librists making zany experiments
that nobody could read and of which
nobody approved; and with what seems
to have been a sudden and simultaneous
illumination both Pound and Eliot sat
down, as he says himself in a famous
critical passage, to write in clear,
simple quatrains, for the sake of order.
For Eliot this produced the first
“Sweeney” poems; but for Pound it
was a complete break with the English
tradition; his study of Mauberley, a
characteristic Edwardian - Georgian
poet, is also the epitaph of Georgian
poetry.
Mr. Espey begins his survey with a
problem new to the present reviewer:
which of the 18 poems are Pound and
which Mauberley? He gives the first
five, beginning with the “Ode,” in
which Pound sums up the opinions of
his critics on his own work, and goes
on to summarise the conditions in
which he wrote; from VI to XII, says
Mr. Espey, are descriptions of Pound’s
and Mauberley’s “contacts”; then
comes the glorious descant on Waller’s
“Go Lovely Rose,” which is both
Pound’s answer to the Georgian critics
and his farewell to England; finally
Mauberley is left there for the last five
poems to drift and die on the Georgian
sea of unproductive hedonism, leaving
one poem only, the concluding
“Medallion.”
Everyone knew that the Mauberley
quatrains took their hardness and
clarity from Gautier’s Emaux et
Camees; but it has taken Mr. Espey
to emphasise that their “Syrian synco-
pation” comes from the Greek of Bion;
and for the first time he demonstrates
Pound’s direct quotation from Gautier:
the opening of one of the most
applauded, number XII, is, in fact,
printed in quotation-marks:—
“Daphne with her thighs in bark
Stretches toward me her leafy
hands”—
Subjectively.
It comes from Gautier’s “Le Chateau
du Souvenir”: —
Daphne, les hanches dans l’ecorce,
Etend toujours ses doigts
touffus.....
But the flavor, the exquisite, wicked
gesture that follows, is Pound himself:
“Subjectively.” Another line from this
poem, the break from the inadequate
lady-patroness to the venal Fleet-
street: —
Conduct, on the other hand, the
soul
“Which the highest cultures have
nourished....
comes from Laforgue’s “Complainte
des Pianos”: —
Menez l’ame que les Lettres ont
bien nourrie....
And
“Conservatrix of Milesian”
Habits of mind and feeling
comes from Remy de Gourmont.
Not less interesting is the identifica-
tion of the knowing “Monsieur Verog”:
Among the pickled foetuses and
bottled bones,
Engaged in perfecting the cata-
logue,
I found the last scion of the
Senatorial families of Strasbourg,
Monsieur Verog.
For two hours he talked of
* Galliffet;
Of Dowson; of the Rhymers’
Club ;
Told me how Johnson (Lionel)
died
By falling from a high stool in a
pub....
From Yeats’s interest in such people
in his Autobiographies one had
imagined that in this knowing disquisi-
tion (“Dowson found harlots cheaper
than hotels”) we were listening to the
great lyricist with his hair down; but
Mr. Espey has fixed it definitely upon
Victor Gustave Plarr, Librarian to the
Royal College of Surgeons, and thus
in fact, and not figuratively, engaged
upon a catalogue among “pickled
foetuses and bottled bones”; also, in
fact, author of a book called The
Dorian Mood.
Thus spoke the author of “The
Dorian Mood’”...
Mr. Espey makes the obvious ascrip-
tion of “Brennbaum the impeccable”
to Max Beerbohm, “the Jew... .who
cancels his entire heritage and assumes
a smooth mask of correctness in order
to conform to the age”; but with a
substantial reservation: —
The model can only have pro-
vided the physical details of the
portrait, unless Pound was writing
under the mistaken impression that
the Beerbohm family was Jewish.
On the other hand,
The stiffness from spats to collar
Never relaxing into grace
could as well be a comment on Beer-
bohm’s prose, which even Guedalla
found reminiscent of patent-leather
shoes a little too tight.
The “Mr. Nixon,” who told Pound
to “Butter reviewers,” and advised him
to give up verse because there was
“nothing in it,” is almost certainly
Arnold Bennett. The “stylist” “exer-
cising his talents” on a little farm may
well be Ford Madox Ford; the literary
“Lady Valentine” of number XII is
possibly Lady Ottoline Morrell or Lady
Geraldine Otter, while Jenny the Pre-
Raphaelite model of number VI
(“Yeux Glauques”) is a mixed meta-
phorical bag; a compound of Rossetti’s
model-wife, who killed herself, and a
weary prostitute who rests her head
upon the poet’s knee, a poem, more-
over, singled out by “foetid Buchanan”
in his attack upon “The Fleshy School
of Poetry” in 1871: —
Foetid Buchanan lifted up his
voice
When that faun’s head of hers
Became a pastime for
Painters and adulterers
The equation of “Jenny” with Ros-
setti’s wife has, as Mr. Espey points
out, no “biographical basis”; it is true,
as are the “Brennbaum” and “Mr.
Nixon” portraits, of a type, as is the
philosophy of “drift” which sums up
the last years of Mauberley—what
could anyone do but drift on the sea
of Elgar’s music? And that music,
beautiful ’armony, but only ’armony, as
Toscanini remarked, with its murmurs
that stop and start, its soft whisperings
after lunch upon the lawn, delicately
bedazed with wine, could well have
been the accompaniment to the won-
derful suggestion, with the continuous
flow of abstract words, of life beauti-
fully leaking away:—
By constant elimination
The manifest universe
Yielded an armor
Against utter consternation,
A Minoan undulation,
Seen, we admit, amid ambrosial
circumstances
Strengthened him against
The discouraging doctrine of
chances.....
Or where would you get a more
succinct summary of most of Elgar
than:—
A consciousness disjunct
Being but this overblotted
Series
Of intermittances.... ?
The concluding poem. “Medallion,”
is, says Mr. Espey, Mauberley’s one
poem; a soprano singing by the piano;
the soprano, moreover, who sang the
“Song of Lawes” (who set Waller’s “Go
Lovely Rose”) which provoked Pound’s
descant upon it . . .
With these comments one scrapes
only the surface of Mr. Espey’s (he
is an American scholar, of the Uni-
versity of California) discoveries and
ascriptions. How satisfying it must be
to have written 15 pages (the poems
are printed at the back, and make this
fine monograph and its subject com-
plete) that draw out so much complex
comment; but how much more satisfy-
ing to feel that one had written so
musically as to make comment unneces-
sary, as in the portrait of the soprano:
Honey-red, closing the face-oval,
A basket-work of braids which
seem as if they were
Spun in King Minos’ ha 11.....
For Ezra Pound has never been more
a musician than in these poems; and
their greatest force is in the novelty
and variety of his metrical effects, and
their appropriateness to his purpose.
Ronald McCuaig.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 328
Across
I—Cleansing of an apartment back-
ground for painting. (8)
s—Gun who employs mother? (6)
9—Bowl or pitch to become
responsible for the day Germany
surrendered. (7)
10—Think no thin affairs lack a
black African people. (7)
12—Dandruff takes the mongrel to
heart. (5)
14— My Spanish article has nothing
and I would be marrow-like. (7)
15— Left personality blushing. (3)
16— Teddy in trouble with port-
drinkers corroborating prohibi-
tion of childbirth. (7, 3)
18—Century score by a batsman
approaching the century with
haste before tea which is most
crisp and crumbly. (10)
20—This makes a mountain pass
nothing into 150. (3)
22 Product sent out from the isles
of Langerhans. (7)
23 South Carolina kept the hands
on the profile of a mushroom
drain of Antwerp. (7)
24 — “Marseillaise” composer makes
seed ill. (2, 5)
25 City to double a boy in the
middle. (7)
26 — A number which is odd and yet
even to the Spanish. (6)
27 The French post-office in the fog
is a guide to those who travel a
very long mast. (8)
Down
1 — Those who discover about 50 tor
a discoverer of great renown in
Australia. (8)
2 A double-century put to work
and charged. (7)
3 Battle spirit and examples ot
crass mismanagement in some
"N.S.W. mountains. (13)
4 Bishopric spot. (3)
6 One of the main Japanese
islands. (7)
7 About a team to be in residence.
(6)
8— Character of Kipling trees in a
steamer meanness in measure.
(10)
11—The cost of carrying an accusa-
tion against cargo. (7, 6)
13 —Homeless man who looked for a
herd of elephants and got in
their way? (4-6)
17 —The measure is out of tune
according to bobby. (8)
19 — About to get the answer? (7)
20— When the music is slowing and
softening a country in company.
(7)
21—Monkey about with the prelate
in the file taken in hand by
Menuhin. (6)
25—N.Z. bird. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 327


li
mi;;;; j
III;:::::
: !!!!!! IJIm*;;
• hi in* ••
:jmiM ••
.!: iii".
■
i
: ::: il
i'il
■
i'jrs ■ t
m
%
s
L
in
\v . **. .
\-s*vy
mmf
•<
m
.
ivlsii
'*k
111:
mm
-cCV 4
1
■w '
m
..I .::
H
:::ii iii;;
m
m
m
&
m
mimSm II
ef ,
cuts building costs
r ' t:
S ; >
"pAPERBOARD* concrete moulds—which are com-
**• parative newcomers to the Australian Building
Industry—provide a fast, economical method of con-
structing tubular pillars and concrete pipes.
These tubes—made of layer on layer of paperboard—are
set in position, and concrete is poured into them. When
the concrete is set, the tubes are stripped off, leaving a
perfectly round column—a relatively easy way of doing
what used to be a costly, difficult job.
Tubes can also be used as weight saving “voids” in
concrete slabs. In this case, the concrete is poured around
the tubes with consequent saving in building construction
costs.
The paperboard used for the tubes is produced by A.P.M.
—Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd.—who annually
make some 200,000 tons of paper and paperboard. This
is converted by other manufacturers into a great variety
of finished products that make work easier, or reduce
costs, or make life more pleasant, in countless ways.
*The term paperboard embraces cardboard , fibreboard and other
heavy-weight papers. Basically the same raw materials are used
for paperboard and paper.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne.
■
with Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield. Maryvale and Broadford in Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W. and Petrie, Qld. (under construction)
