

r
sd
e
e,
fgs
SOLERO <
SWEET OK DRY
dfg
sd
The Bulletin
“THE HONEYSUCKLE AND THE BEE”-p4ge 23
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3941
Wednesday, August 24, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 260: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
RUPERT BROOKE’S GRANTCHESTER, A QUIET ENGLISH HAMLET
/TJ. RANTCHESTER, situated in the low-lying meadows near
Cambridge, is celebrated in Rupert Brooke’s poem of that
name. This picturesque village with its white-washed and
thatched-roof cottages is also associated with the poet Lord Byron,
whose name is commemorated there in “Byron’s Pool.”
Rupert Brooke was born in 1887, attended Rugby School,
where his father was a housemaster, and later went to King’s
College, Cambridge. His home at that time was the Old Vicarage
at Grantchester, described in the verses of his famous poem. Early
in 1911 he visited Germany and Italy, and his first volume of
poems was published in that year. During 1912 he moved in
distinguished literary circles in London, and after being made a
Fellow Of King’s in 1913, he visited U.S.A., Canada, Hawaii, Fiji
and New Zealand, returning to England just before the outbreak
of war in 1914. In the October of that year, while serving in the
Naval Division, he was at the defence of Antwerp. The following
year, while accompanying the Division to the Dardanelles, he
suffered from sun-stroke, contracted blood-poisoning and was put
ashore on the Island of Skyros in the where he died on
April 23rd, 1915, at the age of twenty-eight.
Few countries, been so richly served by its poets,
playwrights and fhthprs as the British Isles, where every county has
at least one literary association. Near Grantchester is Impington
Hall, which* for three hundred years, was in the possession of the
Pepys family and which is frequently mentioned in the famous
“Diary.”


BOOKHUNTEK, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—Action, text book,
taography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful. J
The Red Pa ge
JUBILEE HISTORY
It is difficult to understand what
Australia A Social and Political
History, edited by Professor Gordon
Greenwood (Angus and Robertson), is
intended to achieve. A product of the
“Arts Sub-committee of the 1951
Jubilee Celebrations Committee,” it is
a series of essays by a panel of uni-
versity writers of whom not one, except
Professor Max Hartwell, who deals
entertainingly with the years of pastoral
ascendancy between 1820 and 1850,
shows much zest for his work.
Dr. Crowley, who writes the opening
chapter on “The Foundation Years,”
says that “the first 30 years of British
settlement in Australia certainly does
not indicate the working-out of any
systematic plan for fostering new ven-
tures in trade, colonisation and empire-
building. The most striking feature of
colonial society was its penal
character.” But by 1805, 17 years after
the foundation of the colony, John
Macarthur had perfected his vision of
the wool-industry, convinced the British
Government of the validity of his views
and begun the work which, almost
exactly at the end of Dr. Crowley’s 30
years, established the wool market as
the core of the country’s future
permanent prosperity.
Next Dr. Crowley accepts the con-
ventional viewpoint that when
Governor Phillip left Australia:—
The maladministration during the
years 1792 and 1795 effectively
altered the direction and extent of
the development of the c010ny....
The disciplinary policy of Phillip
was almost completely reversed.
Control over convicts was relaxed,
civil officers were replaced by mili-
tary officers, and extensive land
grants in the most suitable positions
were granted to officers of the Corps
and their friends.
All these statements are loosely
made. Discipline had been relaxed
already, under the impact of starva-
tion, before Phillip sailed. So much
so that a third of the year’s crop in his
last year was stolen in the fields. The
grants of land made by Grose “in the
most suitable positions” were not the
few hundred acres made to officers and
their friends but those to the 70 settlers
—with their families 400 persons—
involved in the colonisation of the
Hawkesbury, mostly ex-convicts, ex-
Marifies whom Dr. Crowley in-
correctly calls “Royal” Marines—and
private soldiers.
Dr. Crowley fails to set out the
tangible results of Grose’s “malad-
ministration”—to tell that 473 persons
died in the last year of Phillip’s reign
in a population of 3100, while the
number was reduced during the Grose-
Paterson period progressively so that
there were only 24 deaths of adults
in 1795, and that the Grose-Paterson
era saw the colony made self-supporting
in grain.
Dr. Crowley, and many others,
derive their view of the Grose period
from disgruntled and ill-disposed per-
sons like the Reverend Samuel Marsden
and Reverend Richard Johnson and the
sour “Scottish martyrs.” They never cite
evidence for the defence such
evidence as that in the private corres-
pondence of Johnson, who, while in
public he was vindictively “exposing
the last Government, their extortion,
their debauchery and the ruin of the
colony, driving it almost to ruin by the
sale of liquors at 1200 per cent.,” was
privately writing when his complaints
were loudest: “The colony at this time
seems to be in a more prosperous and
flourishing state than I have yet seen
it.”
Equally at fault are the summaries
of the King and Bligh periods—the
legend is fully accepted that the rebel-
lion of 1808 was due in the main to
Bligh’s “damming of the flood of
spirits”; but there was considerably
more in it than that. His failure to
give out land-grants ordered by the
home Government while he himself
feathered his nest with great estates,
illegally accepted, and helped himself
to Government calves and labor; his
expressed determination to send away
the New South Wales Corps, so firmly
established in the domestic scene over
17 years; his pulling-down of houses;
his general rudeness and tyranny; his
refusal to support Macarthur’s wool
schemes—all these factors had more
influence than liquor in bringing about
his downfall.
Again, there is the statement that
after the rebellion “the victors soon
made sure of their spoils, John Mac-
arthur was appointed colonial secretary
within a few weeks, officials and
magistrates sympathetic to Bligh were
removed from office and large grants
of land were given to supporters of
the rebels.” Actually, Major Johnston,
and particularly Macarthur, incurred
the bitter opposition of their principal
supporters because they refused to
allow them to “make sure of the spoils”
—the only man who seems to have tried
to give himself any was Johnston. Of
the 81,000 acres granted during the
two-years “interregnum,” 76,000 were
granted after Johnston and Macarthur
relinquished control, and 68,000 of
them by Paterson, who did not arrive
in Sydney till a year after Bligh’s
deposition, and after Johnston and
Macarthur had left the colony.
The remainder of the chapter on the
earliest period is a fairly satisfactory
account of the convict economy seeded
with such small inaccuracies as that
which stated that John Macarthur had
40 servants as early as 1795 —the year
should have been 1798 —but it gives
remarkably little attention to the real
work of foundation on which subse-
quent economic progress was built. It
is surprising that Dr. Crowley can
assert that “the colonisation of Aus-
tralia was exceedingly fragmentary.
Not until the end of the 19th century
was much known of the interior, of its
soil and climate, its natural products,
its capabilities and resources.”
There is a flawless aridity about
most of the other chapters, especially
in those dealing with more recent
times, which robs our island, story, as
told for the jubilee, of human qualities.
The writers on the modem periods slur
over the wholesale capture of the
unions by Communism at the relative
stage; they also almost ignore the
socialisation objective of the Labor
party and mercifully forget the confer-
ence of 1921 which adopted it. They
avert their eyes with a shudder from
the less palatable scenes of the years of
Lang. Though they mention in an
offhand manner charges of gerry-
mandering in Queensland, they
politely evade discussion as to how
far it has been responsible for Labor’s
long reign in the north.
Mr. Partridge writes the history of
the war years without consideration of
Dr. Evatt’s Fourteen Points referen-
duin. And he astonishes the know-
ledgeable reader with such statements
as “that the Curtin and Chifley Gov-
ernments gave Australia a foreign
policy for the first time in history”-—a
statement which seems to contradict
Professor Greenwood, who wrote on
the “Development in the ’Twenties.”
Presumably not having dealt with him
on the night of Munich, or been present
when Forgan Smith and Theodore
prevented him by forceful persuasion
from accepting the “Hands Off Russia”
resolution of the Communist-dominated
A.L.P. in 1940, or when the A.L.P.
State branches and his own Minister
Calwell smashed his plan to send the
militia beyond the Equator in 1943,
he regards the late John Curtin as
“perhaps the strongest personality
brought to the front in public life
during the war.”
Of the great leaders of World War I
there is only the barest passing men-
tion. Of the vital effect on national
thinking and outlook of the sending
of 400,000 young Australians abroad
and of the destruction of much of the
flower of young Australian intellect on
the battlefield there is no discussion.
The history of World War XI is com-
passed without a mention of the name
of Blarney or Collins—or any other
Australian officer. Even allowing that
the history is political and social, that
is a considerable feat of omission,
having regard to the impact which
defence-force opinion had on the
morale of the wilting Government in
the months immediately after Pearl
Harbor. The A.I.F. is mentioned by
name three times in the chapter on
World War I and not at all in refer-
ence to World War. 11, which shares a
chapter with the depression.
M. H. Ellis.
The Immortal Donkey
When a classic becomes a classic
there is always a good reason for it;
and, examining An Inland Voyage,
Travels with a Donkey, The Silverado
Squatters, now reprinted in a single
volume under that threefold title in
Everymans, it very soon becomes clear
why Stevenson is chiefly remembered,
in his travel-writings, for the donkey.
“An Inland Voyage”—where he gets
into a canoe, with his companion “The
Cigarette” in another, and paddles up
the rivers of northern France, exchang-
ing courtesies with bargees, constantly
being mistaken for a pedlar and being
refused admittance to hotels, falling
occasionally into the river and coming
to rest in a tree, meeting three pretty
girls in Origny Sainte-Benoite, discus-
sing duck-shooting and politics with
an innkeeper who got so excited about
both subjects that he broke the crockery
at the dinner-table, and getting
gloriously tipsy with a judge and a
notary “for the credit of Landrecies”
—is indeed a charming little book, full
of weather and water and good
writing:—
We had a shower or two, but
light and flying. The air was clean
and sweet among all these green
fields and green things growing.
There was not a touch of autumn in
the weather. And when, at Vaden-
court, we launched from a little lawn
opposite a mill, the sun broke forth
and set all the leaves shining in the
valley of the Oise.
But it is also a little young, and thin.
The prose is mannered; the writer is
obviously trying to be a little older
than he was; and the idle charm, made
up of almost nothing happening, is just
a shade too idle: he should have stayed
longer with the three pretty girls, or
got a little drunker, or shot a duck
himself, or fallen more often into the
flooded Oise.
“The Silverado Squatters”—a mag-
nificent title for a travel-book —is
richer in material, perfectly matured
in style. It was written in 1879, only
three years after the river book, but
in those three years much had hap-
pened. For one thing, Stevenson had
written, in the meantime, “Travels with
a Donkey”; for another, he had gone
to America to marry Mrs. Osbourne —
with whom he had fallen in love just
after the canoe-trip —had collapsed
from his tuberculosis, recovered and
was now, with an assurance of £250
a year from his father, enjoying his
“unconventional honeymoon in a half-
broken-down shanty in a derelict
mining-camp” high among the hill-
billies in the mountains of California.
He had, in short, become a man and
a writer.
There is nothing to criticise in “The
Silverado Squatters.” A rarity among
writers suffering from his illness,
Stevenson managed to avoid —without
indeed attaining their compensating
quality of intensity—the feverishness
of D. H. Lawrence and Katherine
Mansfield and also, in his own field of
tranquil distillation of experience, he
avoided the pathological details which
tend to disfigure the essays of Llewelyn
Powys.
The special appeal of “Silverado” is
the wildness and remoteness of its
setting and people: the “Hebrew” who
found the abandoned cottage for
Stevenson and who, having everyone in
his debt, ruled the whole district; the
trials and delights of camping in that
cracked and tottering habitation where
once a dozen miners had slept on their
tiers of bunks; the wind coming up
the mountain and roaring, and the mist
drowning the valleys in a tide of silver;
the perilous cliffs and caverns of the
old silver-mine; the. rattlesnakes that
hissed in the backyard; the hillbillies
who were manoeuvring to steal the
worthless mine: all fascinating material,
set down in the compelling simplicity
of Stevenson’s prose at its best.
Mr. M. Roy Ridley, who introduced
the volume, values “The Silverado
Squatters,” indeed, above “Travels
with a Donkey”: but one cannot have
that. It has not the movement; it has
not the same dramatic finish, which
makes each chapter of the “Travels”
read like a magnificent short-story; it
has not the legendary quality.
The donkey itself is a legendary
animal. Sancho Panza rode one: there
is always something at once bizarre
and appealing about it. And Steven-
son’s poor Modestine, much too small
to ride, was such a diminutive donkey,
and so charming when she fell in love
with the jackass along the road, and
so wonderfully stubborn when, rather
painfully for the reader, he had to
whack her step by step over the hills
until “my arm ached like toothache
from perpetual beating,” and so
amiable and poetic a companion when
she kept watch and ate bread with him
among the pinewoods in the mountains
{“Red Page” continued on page 35)
NEW ZEALAND BALLADS
Mrs. Rona Bailey (Flat 2, 246
Vivian -street, Wellington, N.Z.) is
collecting “New Zealand folk-
ballads, shearers’, miners’, drovers’
bush-songs and local verse, etc.,”
and would be grateful to anybody
who can supply any.
THE GIRL WITH THE FLAXEN HAIR
A Homage to Debussy.
Bearing their birds and gardens on their
hats
The ladies of suburbia have come
Fresh in their sweeping skirts from sweep-
ing mats
To grace my mother’s afternoon at-home.
For each, a delicately-different china cup,
For all, the scandal and the price of eggs;
For me, my bright white sailor-suit
starched-up,
Its pinked seams chafing me between my
legs,
And the white-frocked Renoir child with
the flaxen hair
Tied in those chocolate-boxy bows he
makes—
I am to take her to play in the open air,
Leaving her mother to the tea and cakes.
Into the stare of the afternoon sun at the
grass,
Wandering out in silence, hand in hand,
I, her diminutive and dutiful Pelleas,
She, my mysterious, miniature Meli-
sande,
I see us yet, a portrait lost to tense.
Rapt in the heat as flowers in their aroma,
Fixed by the master’s glaze of inno-
cence . . .
But life shakes rudely at pictorial coma:
The sweep has left behind his tin of soot—
These things must happen; why, I cannot
tell:
For every Adam, his forbidden fruit,
For every Melisande, her destined well:
N.S.W.
“Put in your head.” The summer air is
cursed
As Eden's with the scented breath of sin.
The fig-tree shudders. “You put yours in
first.”
The bamboo stirs and sighs. My head
goes in.
My sailor-suit, the glow of Renoir’s paint,
Become our weekly charwoman’s despair,
Life’s evil critic, throwing off restraint,
Empties his inkpot on the flaxen hair.
Golliwogs, now,
We run in to show
The people what we have done:
We cause a creaking of the tight-laced
sitters.
Somebody shrieking,
Everyone speaking,
One of them drops her bun:
They all seek hiding-places for their
titters.
And we are trapped in passion’s after-
math,
The prophecy and prototype of others:
The double expiation of the bath,
The hissings of the geyser and the
mothers
Conclude this formal afternoon at-home.
I wonder would she think me past all
shame,
Rejoicing in the roses of her small,
spanked bottom,
A lover of Renoirs who has forgotten her
name?
RONALD McCUAIG.


Refresh your home
1 I
WU
m
»
mm
<'
■
-.-fctX-
( h
■'m:
' A'. 1
l7uL
§?§&
i r J V
M&Mi
s:- ':*Rsim
mi?
t.m
mi m
ifflM
ajgWSMMB
«• • r+l
SfB
W.
' '"v^
'■ r - /\ -
,•• /•?.■ '.
mi
/ Js~.
fW4
m
<;>y
■ ’ .-. ; ■, • v
<■>-
. * 1
m
i ■ VvH- > V: i :
-.1.v
';>"
a,.
V*
•W r
:; •'
r, .«»°-^
1 ■ -
mm
A'l:
0
ISI
.”5 *:'.
.Jf '• > >*
X : t., -Vv-. ''. • < ~^;i n *' ■•• ••'7>£pS^K
■m
' • V,
;Vf
kvv; <«; '■ : •; a »<* >• Sy
- . ...^
*... s.
•V 3 " J
'lll
msi
V»v' i /’i
*/„' vV fW' 4 ‘ I 7 ,
li-1,--y-- JfrW^a
*w : v
.; /
:7>- <‘:
C .:•■
BS
$
f^fM
* Ife#•• *
; 1
ii&if!
HSU
•r-.<
SK
:«. r-
X • :-|T^
57^1
‘-V 7i I
Stv-.iA .--Mr, > j^yp^WA:-
®S5*
iSs^aS
iflllSß
r-cos;. ua ••; :-»* Jj*.
•L.'-'f' 1 .
-:. /y
iH
BBS
f-R?
V? ’^Jj
E&3
nr
Hh
+
M*
H*
-<K
:.f
Hr
H-
-4r
h R
4
*T*t:ffc>
Ik
4!^
»<►
«
m
VI
7
M
\
f
r
Jt
\
Chenille i
Toilet Set
Handy Chenille Toilet
Sets in two'tone colours of
Black ' White, Green'
White, Blue'White, Pink'
White, Gold'White. This
three'piece set is wonder'
ful value at only 52/6.
1‘ TRUTH IN. ADVERT!SiNC"
inthony Horderns’
fgs
FURNISHINGS, THIRD FLOOR. BOX 2712, G.P.O. ’PHONE: 80951
Imparted lace
Imported lace beautifully made up into a fully
frilled bedspread with satin lining attached.
It has two separate pillow covers to match.
Satin underlay is available in colours of Cream,
Pink, Blue, or Green. Double-bed size, £l3/17/6.
I-I
Contemporary
Cushions
Contemporary Scatter Cushions in bright back'
ground colours of Yellow, Green and Red with
Black stripe and White spot. The inset is
permanent Rubber Texfoam—and there is no
softer filling made! Size 12 inches x 12 inches,
and are priced at as low as 32/6 each.
«
•fit
1m
M
Velvet Cushions
Crushed Velvet Cushions in shades of Cherry,
Blue, Green, Burgundy and Mushroom. The
insert is an innerspring unit, the same'type as
in a mattress, and is permanent, springy and
soft. They are wonderful value at only 65/' each.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 24, 19SS
Vol. 76—No. 3941
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K.. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521 ft
"Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.). Wellington.
FACTS OF ECONOMIC LIFE
SO many cooks are doing things to the economic
broth these days that neither the master-chef —
presenting his Budget in Canberra tonight—nor his
numerous official and unofficial advisers have a
complete picture of what is happening. At the
same time a good many of the customers are finding
the brew pretty indigestible.
It is obvious that Australia can no longer
afford to have the national economy subjected to
such wide and usually unpredictable stresses. A
dozen different economists might prescribe a dozen
different remedies, and all the politicians might
disagree about them. The first step is surely to
institute an adequate survey of all major features
of the economy.
There is some reason to believe that the Federal
Government has been thinking along these lines. In
a recent speech the Treasurer admitted that the
question of wage-determination and Government
policies could be affected by “the absence of some
authoritative source to which resort might be had
to ascertain the hard facts on which judgments
might be soundly based.”
Sir Arthur Fadden went on to suggest the
devising of machinery to collate basic economic
data on a broad basis—with the material available
for interpretation by different interests and
authorities. These interpretations, he suggested,
would lead to consideration of the means of
co-ordinating them “as the basis of a common
national policy to be pursued with a minimum of
conflict and a maximum of co-operation.”
Any suggestions must be assessed against the
current background of politics, of Constitutional
and other limitations, of business and industrial
pressures, of the needs for expanded production at
lower cost, and of the constant, if largely unreal,
wrangles between Commonwealth and States over
allocations of available funds .for tasks on which no
agreement on priority seems practicable.
Imponderables include defence needs and pros-
pects (with defence requirements still lagging
because of non-availability of men and materials),
and the growing needs of the increasing population.
Australia is pledged, of course, to convertibility
and multilateral trade, to the lowering of tariffs
under GATT (and also, with that agreement revised,
to the devising of something better than varying
and unsettling import-licensing restrictions), and,
in the domestic field, to the maintenance of the
Tariff Board and the Arbitration,,# Court, two
institutions with a far greater impact on the
economy, through their decisions, than the national
Parliament.
Other factors of major importance are the
annual Budget of the Commonwealth, the controls
exercised through or by the Commonwealth Bank
board, the requirements of the International Bank,
the pressures for major increases in economic aid
to increase the prospects of peace—and trade —in
Asia.
Apart from the Treasurer’s statement on the
need, now unsatisfied, for finding the facts, the
Government cannot be unmindful of criticism
coming from many quarters of the lack of economic
leadership. The president of the Metal Trade
Employers’ Association of N.S.W. had some harsh
things to say recently on the subject, and he also
said that “a significant and astonishing void” was
the lack of a factual and analytical survey of
economic affairs. His suggestion was that an annual
survey should be undertaken by available and
highly-qualified Government officers. He also
stressed a matter known to have been causing
Ministers concern for a long time, although they’ve
done nothing about it—the unrelated thoughts and
actions of the Tariff Board and the Arbitration
Court. He felt that the court was denied worth-
while analytical data by the Government, and that
it failed to heed employers’ warnings about the
possible inflationary consequences of its decisions.
At least one influential group in Australia has
been pressing for appointment of a Council of
Economic Advisers, based apparently on the council
in U.S.A. But circumstances in the two countries
are different in principle as well as magnitude, and
it would be difficult to justify establishment of a
body which might seek to override the authority of
the Tariff Board and to make acceptance of its
recommendations almost implicit in its terms of
reference.
Here again the first requirement is information
rather than advice. What has been the cost of tariff-
protection to Australia? How is “cost” defined?
What are the national, as distinct from the purely
selfish, aspects of divergent views on the tariff?
What are our overseas trading problems arising
directly and indirectly from our rising production-
costs? Can limits be suggested or imposed on
profit-margins? What is the economic impact of
controls imposed by some or all States? What are
the effects on industry of import-restrictions? What
are the prospects of nuclear or other new sources
of power, and what are the likely effects on the
economy?
Other obvious questions await asking and
answering. It is not long since the Tariff Board
pointed out that its function was to recommend
such rates of duty as would adequately protect
Australian industiy. “However, the board is also
required to recommend duties only in respect of
industries which are economic and efficient. Should
present trends continue the question might possibly
arise,” it said, “as to whether an industry, even if
efficient, should be regarded as economic if its
protection results in a selling-price so high as to
be an undue burden on consumers.”
Here is surely a major field for inquiry, in
which the facts disclosed might themselves prompt
inevitable answers
Tt QPPm? nprp« a rv akn to ralmlatf* tho romiiro
m dt sf n „™
ments of the raprdly-expand ng population on
primary and secondary production over a reason-
we faceli Sd“n
same time an assLment of on a
a a tu c
St ? badly needed The Munster for
D.svelopinent &enator Spooner told the
?“ at ® “ f“ ne that last year -fl Cent ° f T
™P°* S . 1“a V! go ° d /
thatAhe gmaTma ori“v rf imoorts were necesTarv
„ ■ aj i y , • ff.T 5 , were n f ec f sa y
“ < i" stnes - and that manufacturers
Snort SI aS. £ ey /, av< ? r ? d
T (Ittctdentally, the Minister
in r,-I , f , i
increases in rail-freights—that costs of transport
within Australia constitute the Achilles heel of our
manufacturing economy.” This suggests one more
avenue of inquiry for a fact-finding body.)
a , \. , '
Another Minister, the Minister for Commerce
and Agriculture, also had something to say recently
on secondary exports. Promising Government con-
sideration of the suggestion for an export credit-
guarantee scheme, to meet competition from other
countries, he said that the trade position demanded
that Australian manufacturers and the Australian
Government should co-operate in bold and enter-
prising efforts to increase exports of secondary
Pr^ UC »uL ° Ut u^ at K in the la f/ ve
yea L S , a^° U l £ - 1000 ml ] hon . had , b . een . m
cnprtal assets in secondary industries in Australia,
and that the secondary industries would provide
Nation we neefeT ““ addltl °” al
P P '
Other factors requiring assessment are the
effect of company- and income-taxation on pro-
duction, the ramifications of the hire-purchase
system and the effects on it of current credit-
restriction, and possible features of plans for
encouraging home-building in the face of the present
discouragements of credit-trouble and rising costs.
The “interpretations” of the given facts,
naturally, might vary widely, according to political
or economic beliefs. But if we know the facts we
can face the future (which economically will not be
particularly easy) with a great deal more confidence
than it is possible to feel in our present state of
ignorance.
Under Armed Guard
THE result of the A.L.P. poll for election of the
N.S.W. State Branch Executive, and the surrounding
circumstances, advertise all too well what sort of a
party the “Labor” party has become and what its
future is likely to be.
The conference at which the votes were cast
was a fully representative gathering of delegates
from affiliated local branches and trade-unions.
There were 647 delegates accredited. There was a
“steering committee” to guide its proceedings into
the right channels. There was open voting for a
number of offices and on a variety of resolutions.
There had been thunderous threats before the
gathering about what Dr. Evatt would say and
what would happen to those who opposed his will.
In the voting which took place openly in con-
ference the balance seemed to be held almost
equally between the industrial-groups, which Dr.
Evatt and his supporters had announced their
intention to destroy, and the Left-wing-union bloc
with its infiltration of disguised Communists and
representatives of Communist-directed or -controlled
unions. The results seemed to be dictated by how
many wavering voters the organisers of each side
in the fierce shindy could drag out of their hiding-
places and thrust into the limelight to indicate their
preferences in the sight of all the conference.
Generally speaking, it seemed that the industrial-
groups were able to grab and drag in a few more
of these shrinking violets than their opponents, a
fact no doubt due to the dependence of a lot of
them on the favors of the spoils-to-the-victors Cahill
State Government.
However, when the executive was voted for by
secret ballot there was a different tale. There seems
to have been no doubt about the result of the ballot,
which was carried out with all the solemnity and
precautions usually attendant only on the election
of cardinals—in fact, with more precautions, for it
is nowhere on record that if ballot-boxes are used in
the College of Cardinals they are escorted to the
counting-place by armed guards. No doubt candi-
date-cardinals have a better opinion of each other
than the rival N. S. Wales exponents of the United
Front and the brotherhood of man who appear on
all occasions to act on the assumption that leaders
of their party will stop at nothing, even forcible
hijacking.
The contents of the boxes proved to be even
more interesting than the method by which they
were taken to the polling-places. It turned out that
a lot of people who must have been intimidated
into voting for the minatory Evatt party in the light
of day had obviously given their votes in the other
direction in the secrecy of the ballot-box. No fewer
than 122 out of 647 had cast informal votes, whether
deliberately or through a trembling of the hand and
uncertainty of eye with a pencil did not appear. It
also was apparent that the Evatt organisers who
continually vaunt their superior efficiency in justifi-
cation of their plea that they should be allowed to
run the country were so inefficient that they had
not been able to print an effective how-to-vote card;
and thus 14 voters had gone astray to their discom-
fiture. The result can be epitomised by saying
that Mr. Campbell, an Evatt supporter, who was
elected president by grace of a few groupers who
disliked his ex-Communist opponent Dr. Lloyd
Ross more than they loved the groups, will be a
lonely island surrounded by an executive of which
the secretary and assistant-secretary and 29 out of
32 executive members are political enemies of
himself and his leader, the remaining three being
“neutral”—whatever that may mean.
Mr. Dougherty, the leader of the opposition to
the groups in the conference, who was defeated at
almost every turn despite the vast influence of the
A.W.U., which he also leads, has proclaimed that
the policy of the A.W.U. is to dedicate itself to the
fight until all outside influences in the “Labor”
party are removed. This shows the atmosphere
which can be expected to prevail between now and
the State election which is definitely coming next
year (as late as Mr. Cahill can make it) and the
Federal election which may come at the end of
this year.
Dr. Evatt has ceased to be a champion. The
week after the ballot was unique in “Labor” post-
war history as the only known period in a long
career in which he has refused to say anything to
the press. He lost prestige by his complete failure
to show any aggressiveness at the conference or to
bring forward the charges against the groups which
he has been shrieking at every opportunity since
his disastrous interference with the Petrov com-
mission. The breach with his Whip, Mr. Daly, and
with a dozen of his followers in caucus is open in a
way that makes it impossible for it to be mended.
In the vernacular, either he or they “are
for it.” Some of his firmest supporters are, more-
over, in almost as precarious an electoral position
as he himself 1 in Barton, which, it is an open secret,
he has been trying to leave for the safe haven of
Cunningham, which his sick colleague, Mr. Davies,
probably will not contest again. His henchmen,
Messrs. Lemmon and Haylen, are in danger. And
it needs only a whisper from “Eddie” Ward on
the wrong side of the mouth to set the Big Bosses
of East Sydney region, Messrs. Dan Minogue and
Hills, searching for somebody with less affinity for
Soviet Russia. The Bankstown scandal hangs like
an atomic cloud over the whole party, and the
words “War Expenditure Committee Report,” when
uttered in the presence of the heads of the party,
produce a visible shudder. It is a sorry spectacle,
both for the followers of the party and for the
country.
Both the Commonwealth and N. S. Wales State
Parliaments meet on August 24 in a not-too-healthy
economic atmosphere. They meet on the edge of the
new wool season, with some of the Australian
export markets in the doldrums, with bank-rates
being hardened in the United States as a brake
on inflation and overspending on time-payment,
with Australian trade-balances not what they should
be and with unstable tendencies in the local share-
markets.
The Commonwealth Government will be doing
Australia a good turn if it goes to the country as
quickly as possible and gives the electors a chance
to write “finis” to the career of Dr. Evatt and his
fellow-deputies. It will badly need a mandate to
deal with Communism within the next year.


ABOARD THE “BALLYROUGHUN”
“Able was I ere I saw—Sydney!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Parliaments Meet
Neither the Federal nor the N. S. Wales
Government can have looked forward
with pleasure towards the meeting of the
two Parliaments today. Mr. Menzies
meets with Seato conferences sitting as
the first of a long series to plan the
defence of South-East Asia against the
southward spread of Communism. He
meets it with the departure of the Second
Australian Royals for Malaya only l a week
off, and with all the implications that
arise out of that fact to plague him and
the Federal Treasury. His difficulties
in the matter are added to by the fact that
the sending-abroad of the force is not
backed by unanimous Parliamentary
opinion, as one would have expected it
to be. The “Labor” Opposition is at one
with the Communists in opposing any
attempt to interfere with the right of
Red China and Red Russia to drift south-
wards and drag countries behind the Iron
Curtain right up to Australian shores.
Mr. Menzies faces also the usual
demand for lowered taxation at a time
when costs and defence-expenditure, as
well as the demands of the States for
tax-money, are rising, and when it is
certainly necessary to add to pensions if
pensioners are not to solve the growing
problem which they present by dying-off
from starvation. Any solutions which he
has for economic problems arising out
of demands for margins and go-slow are
doubled by the fact that every “Labor”
State Government will automatically
oppose his measures, and by its own
legislation seek to wreck his plans.
That is the sort of thing which is hap-
pening even now. The Prime Minister
has insisted on keeping arbitration and
wage-fixing outside the realm of party-
politics, but it is obvious that, not having
any real economic responsibility in the
matter in the ultimate, Mr. Cahill pro-
poses to legislate to restore basic-wage
adjustments in this State —as far as he
can Constitutionally. He has reintro-
duced price-fixing under the daring Mr.
Landa, with the astonishing result that
Mr. Landa has found it possible to make
token reductions in the prices of popular
commodities, while Mr. Cahill’s Railway
Department is making wholesale increases
in charges for freights and fares on the
railways.
The Commonwealth Government’s
position is not necessarily as happy as
it might seem by reason of the fact that
“Labor” has become split to the wide. It
can be taken for granted that both fac-
tions will agree that a prime necessity
is wholesale increases of wages, not inter-
ference with time-payment expansion.
Even if they did not agree on the measure
of these things it might be worse than
otherwise, since the divided factions,
while at one in principle, might compete
vigorously to see which could advocate
the greatest concessions in wage-increases
and the greatest whittling-down of hours.
The A.C.T.U. is now thinking in terms
of the 30-hour week at a period when the
whole competitive overseas world is in-
clined to increase hours through the
development of piece-work.
With these problems runs the possi-
bility that the Indonesian elections
next month might bring into power
a Communist-controlled Government in
Djakarta, one which would certainly have
a liaison very quickly with the Commun-
ist unions and their helot “Labor” leaders
in Australia. And all these chances face
a Government which has the prospect
that unless there is electoral reform in
the meantime it will legislate with a
hostile or stalemated Senate before the
1956-7 Budget, and also with the back
benches restive with discontent over the
number of old men in the Cabinet. It
is no bright prospect. Especially in view
of the wilting state of overseas trade.
A Judge on Juries
The jury-system has frequently been
under fire in recent years, and most legal
men can tell from their own experience
of extraordinary verdicts given by juries.
It is doubtful whether any Australian
city could produce a parallel to the tale
reported from another country recently
of a defendant who, when his name was
called in court, answered from the jury-
box, he having been actually summoned
as juror in his own trial. When the
judge admonished him and said, “Surely
you knew you could not serve on the
jury and help to decide your own case?”
he is reported to have replied, “Well, it
did seem rather a stroke of luck, your
Honor.”
Next to being your own juror, the
desirable thing is probably to have a
friend or relation on the jury, and in
practice the law doesn’t look favorably
on that custom. Although it is the
traditional right of British citizens to be
tried by a jury of their equals, it is
apparently felt that friends are a trifle
too equal—or perhaps equal to a trifle
too much. For that reason the holding
of trials in country towns has often been
criticised. Still, the practice has behind
it many centuries of acceptance in
England and is long-established in this
country also. But during the past week
a New South Wales judge made a very
serious attack upon it, at least so far as
one town is concerned.
Judge Prior said that in his opinion
Quarter Session trials should not any
longer be held in Forbes because of
“the evils which appear to fetter the
administration of justice” there. He
said that of 66 criminal trials held in
Forbes in the past 20 years there had
been 52 acquittals.
One has not to be in Forbes very long
to hear the stories of jury members being
assaulted or barred from admission to
places they previously visited because of the
verdicts they have given. I do not know if
these stories are correct, but it would seem
to be apparent from these figures that a
number of citizens of this town, either
because of friendship, business reasons,
fear, or from a view that they should not
convict, are unable to observe the oath
they take on entering the jury-box.
The judge’s remarks were not
prompted primarily by a study of
statistics. He called for the figures only
after he had become uneasy in his mind
“about the attitude of some jury
members” in the first case dealt with in
the recent sessions and after his uneasi-
ness had deepened “after a further
trial.”
Statistics for jury-trials in New South
Wales for the year 1953-54 show that
1825 persons were tried. Of these, 1449
were convicted and 376 acquitted. The
difference between this record and that
quoted by Judge Prior is striking. His
remarks can hardly be ignored by the
Government. Mr. F. J. Cahill, the State
member for the district, who told the
“Sun-Herald” he was shocked by the
judge’s comments and that he was
“satisfied there are no grounds at all
for such harsh criticism,” has stated his
intention of raising the matter in Parlia-
ment and calling for a full inquiry.
Considering the source of the criticism
the public should be satisfied with
nothing less.
Morbid Curiosity—and
Culture
When an unfortunate little boy was
reported by his smaller brother and an-
other lad to have fallen into a pond in
Victoria Park, Sydney, police began to
search for him, first probing the shallow,
muddy pool, then systematically dragging
it and finally pumping out the water to
search the mud. This was sad, grim work
—a task only too familiar to the men of
the force. But to the people who watched
the proceedings the sight was not familiar,
and to many of them there was nothing
grim or sad about it. Robert Callender,
in an article in Sydney “Sun,” entitled
“This Crowd Disgusted Me,” described
the crowd very ably:
They came laughingly; they came with
their lunches and their books. They came
to wait for the moment when a tiny boy’s
body would be dragged from the water
Women brought their kids; teenagers
brought their giggles. Thousands watched,
eagerly, as the waters dropped slowly
down and the mud rose. They laughed
when police slipped in the slime
Youths played cards . . . and waited;
girls read books, chewed sandwiches . . .
and waited; mothers kept one eye on
pyjama-clad children, the other on the
pond . . . and waited.
The reporter’s disgust can well be under-
stood. Later he asked “an eminent
psychiatrist” to explain the attitude of
the crowd. He was told
A sadistic impulse still remains in many
people. This emotion has not been
subdued by culture or civilisation. These
people imagine horrible things—and like
doing it It remains because some people
—usually those of low mentality—just can’t
get that cultural overlay At Victoria
Park they subconsciously enjoyed the
anguish of the mother whose son was'
believed to be in the pond. This goes
beyond simple curiosity; it’s morbid,
macabre.
That, too, can be agreed with. But why
did Mr. Callender have to consult an
eminent psychiatrist? The “Sun” surely
has on its staff men who could have told
him all there was to know about morbid
public curiosity and the desire of people
of low mentality to gloat over horrible
things. The people to cater for whose
tastes the “Sun” rates murder, rape and
sudden death as the most newsworthy
items that can possibly come its way.
Not that the “Sun” is alone in poster-
ing and front-paging such items. But
Mr. Callender could scarcely be expected
to go to a rival sheet when in the fort-
night preceding his article on morbid
crowds his own paper could supply this
collection of gems, all headlined in bold
type on the front page, all featured on
posters, and most of them supported by
photographs:
Woman Left Dying: After School Attack.
Theory of Sex Maniac.
Kidnap of Girl on Way to Work. Raped
by Motorist, Police Are Told.
Man Tries to Suicide in Cells. “Confessed
to Murder.”
Confession by Man on Death at Girls’ School.
Queer Killing: Story.
Threat to Kill, Wife Claims.
Five Shot by Mad Gunman. Misses 3 Others,
Suicides
Died in Waste Burner.
Killing: in Jail. Knife in Convict’s Back.
Arrest in Rafters.
Secret Docked in Boy’s Mind. Body Not in
Pond.
Boy’s Story of Dark Man. Hypnotised.
Ray Fell in Water.
New Dead in Pond Mystery. Police Drag:
Railway Hole.
Boy, 4, Sister Die in Blaze.
“This emotion has not been subdued by
culture.” What chance does culture get
to subdue it?
Casey: An Appreciation
“D.E.”: Perforce as “restless” as
Marvell’s Cromwell, and as pertinacious,
though anything but grim and tongue-tied,
Richard Gardiner Casey is off again—
this time to take part in the deliberations
of the General Assembly of the United
Nations in New York, of the Anzus
Council in Washington, and of- the
Colombo Plan Ministers in Singapore.
None of his contemporaries, not even an
Eden or a Dulles, has had to concern
himself with so many itineraries and
agenda-papers.
And what a full life he has led! It is
over 40 years since, as A.D.C. to Bridges,
he was with that masterful warrior when
the A.l.F.’s first commander was shot in
Monash Valley, and when Dr. Charles
(“Plevna”) Ryan, theme of many a juicy
Old Digger story, whose daughter, herself
a born diplomat, Casey was to marry,
pronounced the wound mortal. He was
the first Australian Minister at Washing-
ton (1940-42), the one Minister of State in
the Middle East as representative of
Churchill’s War Cabinet (1942-43) and
the last British Governor of Bengal
(1943-46). He came out of the first war
with the D.S.O. and the M.C., and out
of the second with a C.H.; he is P.C. as
well. Between the wars he was our
political liaison-officer in London for
seven years and a Commonwealth
Minister at Canberra (Assistant Treasurer,
Treasurer, Scientific and Industrial
Research, Supply and Development) for
another seven years.
He was no mean Treasurer, though
he never had the grounding that made
Fadden, also Queensland-born, a natural
choice. But as Minister for External
Affairs he has done a job for Australia
that not one of his associates could have
equalled, much less any of his opponents
with pretensions to playing a part in
international affairs; and, with Com-
munism on the march and great parts of
Asia and Africa “liberated” or in turmoil,
the task has been immeasurably more
delicate and complicated than ever before.
When it seemed likely that the Middle
East would have to be defended, Casey
was there with first-hand knowledge of
the Soviet-threatened region, and with
the not inconsiderable asset of his con-
nection with “Plevna” Ryan—for the
Turk, whatever his faults, never forgets a
friend.
When the danger shifted to South-
East Asia our Minister had to make him-
self familiar with countries that his
predecessors never had to bother about,
and to establish contacts in capitals
whose rulers, new to the art of govern-
ment and blind to the menace of
imperialism of the Moscow or Peking
brand, were feeling their oats, all this
while keeping in touch with London,
Washington, Cairo (to an extent), Delhi,
Lahore, Colombo, Tokio, Manila, Bang-
kok, Djakarta and the rest. It is no
exaggeration to say that he has proved
equal to every call made on him, and this
mainly by establishing the feeling that
Australians are a friendly people who,
while set on keeping control of immigra-
tion in their own hands —since letting
their cities become other Singapores and
Durbans and their States other South
Africas and Fijis would be a fatal policy
—wish the new Asian States well and
will help them all they can.
The Casey methods and aims came
through a severe test at the Bandoeng
conference. Though little was said at
the time, it was greatly feared that the
assembled Asians and Africans would
question the White Australia policy,
especially as “Labor” was blithering (1)
that Australia is, geographically, part of
Asia, and (2) that even if Communism
captures that continent completely Aus-
tralia must never resist it on Asian
(including, of course, Indonesian) soil. In
actual fact, the White Australia policy
wasq’t once mentioned at Bandoeng. An
effect, perhaps, of Casey’s friendship with
Nehru, who spoke rather kindly of Aus-
tralia, while indulging in what read very
like an urbane sneer at the Evatt-Burton
doctrine, product of minds that on these
questions have never grown up.
Australians are too prone to reserve
their tributes to faithful public service
until those who have rendered it are no
more. They shouldn’t let this happen
in the case of a man who, in circum-
stances of unexampled difficulty, without
ever sparing himself or losing his temper
or making a party matter of any subject
he has had to deal with, has raised their
nation’s credit in the eyes of a critical
world.
Practical Atomics
As more emerges about the Geneva
Atoms-for-Peace Conference it becomes
clearer that it was certainly more import-
ant than that of the Big Four. It brought
the atom into broad daylight, as if it were
world property, for the first time. Any
scientist who a decade ago had revealed
the details which were commonplaces of
discussion at the conference would have
found himself in jail, if in the Western
democracies, underground if a Russian.
But the Russians have even invited
Westerners to come and see their atomic
plants.
The atom has stepped into the field to
which steam and electricity belong. It is
no longer a subject for magicians but for
businessmen- It is no longer possible for
any country or group of countries to have
an aeon-lead in defence through owning
a monopoly of nuclear secrets, and the
best index to the general position was to
be found in the discussion of types of
atomic power-plant and fuels and their
handling.
The essential factor in agreement
between the representatives of the three
—so far—great atomic Powers was that
the time was very near when the cost of
atomically-produced electricity would not
be much more, and presently less, -than
coal-produced power. This is possibly
a very important factor in the British
Transport Commission’s and the French
Government’s decisions to electrify the
whole of their railway-systems—the
French already have main-line trains
running at startling speeds, and the
British plan is for full electrification
within 15 years. The two Western
speakers at the conference who primarily
dealt with power-costs were J. A.
Lane, of Oak Ridge, U.S.A., and J. A.
Jukes, of the United Kingdom Atomic
Energy Commission, who agreed on the
early ability of nuclear methods to com-
pete in cheapness and safety with either
oil or coal fuel. The Russian, Professor
Blokhintsev, said that the overall cost of
an improved and powerful nuclear power-
station would not be much more than a
good coal-fired power-station. The
Russians referred to stations planned or
now under construction; the Americans
to what would be achieved in 15 or 20
years by improved versions of stations
of which there were already prototypes.
The Russians were out-and-out opti-
mists, but both the British and Americans
emphasised that no high-output power-
station has yet run by nuclear means long
enough to make it possible to judge the
length of its useful life. And while the
Russians showed a careless regard for
price considerations, the two Western
Powers’ representatives again expressed
their uncertainty about the market value
of plutonium, which is produced from
uranium and other materials and which
will be the direct fuel in all later-type
reactors
How far the matter is still experimental
was shown by the fact that no less than
half-a-dozen types of reactor appear to
be in experimental use in the United
States, all at the prototype stage, but none
sufficiently experimented with to deter-
mine its potentialities. Mr. Lane, the
U.S. lecturer, declared that from five out
of six of the plants there was “a sound
prospect” of producing electrical power
at a basic cost of the equivalent of .sd.
{Continued on next page)


to .6d. sterling per unit —possibly even
as low as the neighborhood of .35d. to
,43d. per unit, with the cost of natural
uranium at 40 dollars per kilogramme,
and plutonium, the fissile material,
estimated from 15 dollars to 30 dollars
a gramme.
The most favored type of plant appears
to be the “boiling-water reactor,” in
which the water which extracts the heat
is allowed to boil and give off steam in
the process and drive turbines. The other
system most in vogue is the pressure
system, in which the water-extraction
leaves the water liquid and the heat is
transferred to external boilers. There
are several types of reactor-burning, of
which the most fascinating from a com-
mercial point of view seems to be that
which uses thorium, from which uranium
233 is produced and which enriches
surrounding material by radiation, thus
creating additional fuel, a process which
is described as being akin to adding a
pound of gold to a ton of iron and then
extracting Ulb. of gold from the iron.
The practical fact seems to be that in
the earlier reactors in use in England the
cost of electricity is about .76d. sterling
a unit, and Mr. Jukes, of Harwell, thinks
that the net cost of plutonium may come
down and would bring English power-cost
as low as .43d. per unit. The Russians
admitted that in their 5000 k.w. station the
cost of electrical generation was high
compared with that in low-power coal-
stations —the Russian station is a pressur-
ised station in which the steam is
generated in external boilers. It was
obvious from the discussion that a lot
remains to be discovered. It is also
obvious that as much water is needed for
atomic power-generation as for other
types of heavy industry, a factor of great
importance to Australia. It is further-
more clear, however, that the quantities
of actual input of fuel are fantastically
low, though the use of common elements
may ease the difficulties of extraction.
At any rate, the Atomic Age is here.
How much can be revealed is shown by
the fact that the Americans were able to
present delegates with an eight-volume
handbook of basic knowledge. But the
future is anything but plain sailing.
Within nine years the number of institu-
tions using radio-isotopes in the United
States alone has grown to 2700, of which
1100 are medical and 1200 commercial.
The use of isotopes in medicine is still
scarcely touched ; in agriculture the field
is as yet only theoretically experimental.
And, for that matter, so is the field cover-
ing the storage of “hot” material when
bulk production arrives, and with it the
safe disposal of waste products without
contaminating humans directly or through
sea-foods. This is a matter which will
call for absolute world unanimity in
technique and law if there is to be
security.
POLITICAL POINTS
Fair exchange? N.S.W. Government
has reduced the price of tooth-paste by
10 per cent, and increased rail-fares by
per cent.
• •
Aphorism from (or for) Cahill’s
commonplace book: Sitting on the fence
may not get you far, but at least it
ensures that you stay where you are.
• •
Calwell described as a “mischievous in-
vention” a report that he had broken with
Evatt; he said it was “designed to create
trouble among Federal Labor men when
Parliament meets.” The idea of the
beautiful friendship between Bert snd
Arthur being broken is, of course, too
ridiculous for words. But who on earth
would think it necessary to create trouble
in the ranks of “Labor”?
• •
Britain’s Chancellor Butler has issued
another warning on inflationary trends.
In a statement issued jointly with the
Minister for Labor he points out that
whereas output rose by 20 per cent, be-
tween 1948 and 1954 wages and salaries
rose by 50 per cent. In the same period
social-service expenditure increased from
£1471 million to £1926 million. The
statement expressed doubts whether this
level of expenditure could be maintained
without an improvement in output.
Another factor which is causing the
Chancellor some concern is the export
position. Britain was responsible for
25.7 per cent, of the world’s exports in
1950, but for the six months to March
31 this year her share was only 19.9 per
cent. German export-figures for the same
periods were 7.3 per cent, and 15.3
per cent.
• •
Dr. H. C. Coombs, Commonwealth
Bank governor, says that Australians are
amongst the thriftiest people in the
world. Rev. Robertson McCue, of the
Vic. Local Option party, thinks they’re
the thirstiest. He raised a laugh when
he asked Vic. Chief Secretary Rylah to
hold a referendum on liquor-trading
hours, but not to hold it in the summer
because the heat would influence thirsty
voters.
• •
Czechoslovakia is to equip a shoe-
factory to be erected on the desert fringe
of the Nile delta. Sandshoes?
• •
Effect of the Evatt group’s defeat at the
Sydney A.L.P. conference will be felt
outside the State. In Queensland it pro-
bably means the end of the move to run
candidates for preselection against sit-
ting M.L.A.S known to favor the indus-
trial-groups. This was an A.W.U. idea,
and Big Tom Dougherty didn’t exactly
add to his stature at the Sydney barney.
• •
Victorian optimists who expect
miracles from an injection of Tatt.’s
money into their hospital-system should
study the Sydney figures. N. S. Wales
has had a State lottery for nearly 30
years. Last week when Health Minister
O’Sullivan announced an increase of 50
per cent, in hospital charges, making the
public-ward charge £l2 12s. a week, he
said that the general impression that the
lottery paid for the running expenses of
the hospitals was wrong. Net proceeds
of the lottery in the year ended June 30
amounted to £3,678,592, but Government
subsidies to the hospitals totalled
£14,413,256.
What O’Sullivan didn’t say is that one
result of this “general impression” is that
the hospitals’ income from donations and
charitable sources has dwindled to a
trickle. When the lottery comes in charity
goes out, as Victoria will find out.
• •
In a letter to a Sydney newspaper a
former member of the Victorian Parlia-
ment reviewed the effect on “Labor” in
Victoria of the Evatt intervention. He
finished with a slogan worthy of a wider
public—“ Wake up, New South Wales.
Dump the disastrous Doctor!”
“Melbn”: In its usual sweeping man-
ner, the Victorian Housing Commission
has declared a big acreage in Colling-
wood a reclamation area and if un-
checked will have the bulldozers at work
demolishing 181 houses which hold 750
people, some of whom have all their
savings locked up in their dwellings,
which may or may not be sub-standard.
Some of the places are pathetically sub-
standard, but others, according to Col-
lingwood’s mayor, are as good as, if not
better than, his own home. Many are
more solid, better-built and better-look-
ing than those the commission itself is
building, but they happen to be in the
architectural fashion of an earlier period.
All they need is modern amenities and
sanitation and they’d last another hun-
dred years.
• •
F. H. Campbell, new president of the
N. S. Wales A.L.P. and the only Evatt
supporter on the executive, told a
“Sydney Morning Herald” reporter in
Grafton that “he could not forecast what
his future on the executive would be.”
Wise man.
• •
Defending the present minimum-age
limit of 30 for South Australian Legisla-
THE SEER
five Councillors, Brookman (L.C.L.) said
that as the Council was a house of review
its members should be more mature than
those of the Assembly. Dunstan
(A.L.P.) commented that the only
maturity he had noticed in the Council
was the maturity of overripe cheeses.
A predecessor of Dunstan, one-time
“Labor” Premier John Verran, was even
more uncomplimentary to the Upper
House. He described its inmates as “a
lot of perambulating corpses.”
• •
Two Governments, one “Labor”
(N.S.W.) and one Liberal (Vic.), have
announced big increases in rail freights
and fares. Sydney Libs, are critical of
the move; so are Melbourne Laborites.
Country-party policy in the two States
is at least consistent; the Cockies are
howling blue murder. They can’t do
much about it in N. S. Wales, but in Vic-
toria they’re threatening to throw the
Bolte Government out of office unless it
changes its mind.
• •
Politically-opposed Cahill and Bolte
have also seen eye-to-eye in the matter of
hospital fees—new rate for public wards
to be £l2 12s. a week. At that figure
few people can afford not to belong to a
hospital-benefits scheme. But Medical
Benefits Fund secretary Cade seems to be
getting unnecessarily alarmed when he
envisages a rush of N. S. Wales patients
to Queensland hospitals, where beds in
public wards are free.
• •
“In the ACT”: Feeling a trifle bewil-
dered by recent events and public utter-
ances, I ask
What are our relations
with Asian
nations?
• •
“Stromlo”: Australia is to share the
British expedition across the Antarctic,
and to contribute £25,000 towards the
cos t —but there was a rather cool recep-
tion for the announcement in some parts
of Canberra. There is reason for belief
that the Antarctic division of the External
Affairs Department, currently spending
£270,000 a year on the Mawson and
Macquarie Island stations, would have
preferred an increase in its own vote
and that this view was supported by the
Minister for External Affairs. However,
it is believed that the Prime Minister,
who made the announcement, was in-
sistent, for political and diplomatic
reasons, that Australia should share the
British-New Zealand enterprise.
• •
A Sydney psychologist recently said
that Sydney’s August westerly winds were
notorious for causing irritability and bad
temper. In Newcastle, too, apparently;
last week about a hundred wharfies
walked off the job at the steelworks’
wharf after telling the foreman the wind
was too boisterous. It must have affected
the foreman, too. At any rate, he dis-
missed ’em.
• •
Champion fence-sitter Cahill remarked
after the N.S.W. Executive ballot, “I
can’t conceive of any vindictiveness being
shown by one side or the other,” and
went on to express his conviction that the
incoming executive would “administer
the affairs of the Labor movement in
accordance with the spirit of the annual
conference.” Surely they could aim a
little higher than that?
• •
In 1890 Melbourne had taller sky-
scrapers than New York, according to
“Introducing Victoria,” a book prepared
for the Melbourne University by the
Australian and N.Z. Association for the
Advancement of Science. Well, the
advancement of science or something is
now to produce skyscrapers in Melbourne
which may rival New York’s. The traffic
chaos which the skyscrapers will produce
will also rival New York’s.
• •
“0.W.W.”: Old readers of N.Z.’s
Labor weekly, “The Standard,” are
amazed at the change that has come over
the paper since the last election. Instead
of using most of its space proclaiming
‘our glorious cause” it seems nowadays
more interested in nudist news, juicy
court scandals, and other features in the
old John Norton manner.
• •
President Soekarno of Indonesia, whose
Government has been demonstrating for
months past that it is not in effective
control of its own country, is again de-
manding control of Dutch New Guinea.
He now speaks of using force. “We must
free Irian with our own strength
Let us mobilise all our powers. Let us
mobilise all our fighting potential.” It
is only about a fortnight since Indo-
nesia was struggling to mobilise a Govern-
ment, its previous one having been dis-
missed by the Army.
• •
Heytesbury, in Victoria’s Western
District, already earmarked as a soldier-
settlement area, is to be further opened-up
for civilian settlement. Much of the land
is forest area and will remain under
timber, but the bulk of it is suitable for
farming. The estimated area available
is 250,000 acres, 'including 70,000 reserved
for ex-servicemen.
• •
Justice Neville, president of the Wes-
tralian Arbitration Court, in announcing
an increase of ss. lid. in the State basic
wage, said there was no doubt that it
would add to inflationary tendencies. One
measure which might counterbalance
this, he suggested, would be legislation to
limit drastically hire-purchase transac-
tions. Westralia is not the only State
where h.-p. is getting beyond control.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
THE Road Safety Council’s slogan
“Stay alive in ’55” has set me won-
dering if they have made provision for
the next few years. I suggest “Don’t cross
the Styx in ’s6”—“Keep out of Heaven
in >57” —“No Pearly Gate in ’58.” It is
admitted that 1960 has me stumped, but
by that time atom-bombs may have
solved road-safety problems. Indeed, “If
it comes to a bash we’ll all be ash.
“S. Bloke.”
♦> ♦> ❖
“CA.A.”: A curious anomaly in our
latest Y.M.C.A.-Y.W.C.A. commemora-
tive stamp is that the colors chosen are
red and green. Red, of course, is for the
“Red Triangle,” as the “Y.M.” is known.
But what about the blue of the “Blue
Triangle,” which stands for the
Y.W.C.A.?
♦J4 ❖
“Bo”: At present in the department-
store windows the waxen lasses are
flaunting their picture-hats, cool cottons
“ Horace! You DO need glasses !”
and bra-top swimsuits (they are the city’s
true harbingers of spring), and this year’s
crop of faces I find notable for the range
of expressions. From one window I am
boldly invited by a come-hither look;
another model’s downcast eyes will pro-
claim the shrinking-violet type; there is
the one with the frank, friendly gaze;
next-door I encounter the inevitable
Mona Lisa smile; there is the shrewdy
with the arch, sidelong look ; and she
who is indicating faint surprise as if her
escort had just come to light with a
diamond pendant. But (thank heaven!)
gone is the snooty, nose-in-the-air look,
indicating nothing but scorn for any-
thing less than Rolls-Royces, yachts,
Russian sables and five-figure bank-
accounts, which characterised last sea-
son’s herd of window-dwellers. At least
we are saved the early-morning spectacle
of a dame trying her damnedest to appear
haughty while a blas£ window-dresser is
pulling a pair of scanties on her.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Pip Tok”: After referring to the
amount of space devoted by Sydney
papers to crimes of violence, gambling
and divorce, a Singapore columnist felt
thankful for the sanctuary of the “fair
city of Singapore.” That city, apparently,
is free from all forms of crime and bad
behavior. The Singapore critic blames
migrants “from the war-torn countries of
Europe” for the crime-wave, and then
declares that our White Australia policy
has become a White Australia tragedy.
The corrective, it may be inferred, would
be to scrap European migration and
admit hordes from South-East Asia —
they were certainly peaceful enough when
Australia was defending herself during
World War 11.
* ❖ *l*
“Zorok”: There’s to be a “strip”-strike
by clerks in India. First off come the
shirts, then the trousers and other inci-
dentals, until only loincloths are left. The
more militant may, of course, go to
extremer lengths. Which is perhaps why
women are not to be allowed to join-in
—could lead to the prolonging of the
strike: even the boss might then be found
to be in favor of its continuation. Any-
way, it’s pleasant to read of a strike in
which it’s not the community at large
that’s stripped.
* ❖ ❖
“Wusslean”: History will be made on
September 15, when a Polish woman who
escaped to Australia during World War
II and later went to U.S.A. with her
American airman husband will sing her
first service as cantor in a Jewish syna-
gogue at Oceanside, N.Y. She is the first
woman ever appointed a cantor (i.e., the
person who assists the Rabbi by chant-
ing part of the service) in 5000 years of
Jewish history. Before her appointment
by the synagogue-trustees, a search of
Jewish law showed that, while women
had not previously been appointed to the
post, there was nothing to prohibit her
taking office.
* *> ❖
“The Rumpus”: Chap down our
street is a frustrated soldier from World
War 11. Always he was in line for pro-
motion, but each time some mischance
blocked the passage and he was finally
demobbed still a private. He has now
realised his ambition to command by dis-
ciplining his five children every Saturday
morning, drilling them with broomsticks
like in the old V.D.C. days. Through the
whole business they have to go, and then,
“Quick march—right wheel,” and off
they troop in single-file down the street
to the corner-shop, where each kid
receives an ice-cream. Back they are
marched, halted, stood to attention and
dismissed. And don’t forget, he has a
clink, too.
♦>
“Narumee”: London “Spectator” com-
ments favorably on doctors’ surgeries and
waiting-rooms and says that some doctors
provide distraction, in the form of flowers
and pot-plants, for their patients ; others,
less thoughtful, or more ruthless, enliven
the decor with zoological specimens, in-
cluding “some snakes in bottles,” “a
small stuffed alligator,” and “an arma-
dillo.” A similar survey here would dis-
cover little but grimy, coverless, dog-
eared magazines, four to six years old,
notices ordering “No smoking,” and pos-
sibly a patient who has been waiting in
the darkest corner since the day before
yesterday. And that goes for dentists’
“ Dad'll be terribly annoyed. I promised to have the jet home
by ten-o'clock.”
waiting-rooms, too! One consolation —■
a National Health Service couldn’t make
them worse.
❖ ❖ ❖
Sig asked his mother to help
him with his homework. A poem about
an old lady going shopping in an English
village had to be examined in relation to
a desperate tale of an Australian bush-
mother protecting her family from a
snake. The question asked was, “Why
is the first poem more trivial than the
second?” His mother hoed-in: the sub-
ject-matter of a work of art is never
trivial, she pointed out. This she ex-
plained with examples like Rembrandt’s
side-of-beef, and so on. After exhausting
herself she found that Sig hadn’t listened
to a word —in fact, was reading a comic;
so, still smarting over the idiocy of the
educational system, she wrote it all down
for him, and eventually he copied it all
out. When his English-master read it he
gave Sig top marks and read his essay
out to the whole school —mind you, all
classes —as a wonderful piece of writing
for a boy of 15. “Have we a genius
amongst us?” he says. “Or did you get
any help?” Of course Sig said he did.
“Oh, well,” said the master, “I like parents
to take an active interest in the school-
work.” Sig’s brother and sister, appalled
at such licence being taken with such a
sacred person as a schoolteacher, berated
him for days and wanted him to make a
public apology to the master. He didn’t
take the slightest notice, just went on
reading the same comic.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Rocky”: It is news to me that our
airmen wear curlers on their moustaches
when going to bed —Sid Black’s cartoon
(B. 20/7/’55). I know from personal
observation that the Germans did in the
Kaiser’s day, way back in early 1918. I
happened to be with them after the kick-
up at Dernancourt on April 5. The
prison-camp guards to a man wore a
Kaiser-mo., straight out and straight up.
At night some black contraption was
worn to keep it in shape. Quite suddenly,
later in the year, we noticed some of the
moes were gone, the rest just bang-tailed.
It was a while before we heard the
Kaiser had skedaddled or abdicated or
whatever he did.
*i* ❖ ❖
“Doric”: Latest social innovation is
for a newly-housed couple to hold an
“Arbor Day”—equivalent to what is also
called a “housewarming-party.” Each
guest is asked to bring a tree or shrub,
preferably from his own garden, and
plant it in the new plot, in return for
which he is regaled with tea-and-scones,
or beer. Noxious weeds sometimes come
to hand. One guest brought a clump of
wild lantana, under the impression that
it was the garden-variety, while another,
under the influence of the present cactus-
craze, has been instrumental in spreading
prickly-pear still further afield. However,
the idea is of more communal benefit
than the banal cocktail-party.
“J.D.W.”: If the experience of the
Canterbury (N.Z.) Aero Club is any
criterion, flying is in the discard among
women. Canterbury trained the late
Aroha Clifford, first Maoriland woman
to get her wings, but the tradition is dying
out. Today it has only one woman-
member flying, and she has yet to get
her licence. Instructors claim that out
of every dozen starters on a course
eleven cave-in pretty soon. Yet the spirit
of Jean Batten isn’t denied our young
women. Twenty-six-year-old Muriel
Dutton, a trainee of the Auckland and
Wanganui clubs, has given-up instructing
to join an aerial-topdressing firm —the
first woman-pilot in a field that pro-
vides well-paid but exacting jobs for
numbers of ex-servicemen.
+> <♦ ❖
“Old Mac”: A fair go, “H.K.” (B.
10/8/’55), for the much-criticised
announcers! I heard the alleged “quad-
rupeds” on the national news, and some
of my co-listeners remarked on it at the
time; but what we really heard was
“quad'-ru-plets,” which both my diction-
aries give as the correct pronunciation,
instead of the usual and incorrect
“quad-ru'-plets.”
+** ❖
A SYDNEY newspaper has run a pic-
ture captioned “The New Look”
depicting the English yacht Bloodhound
sporting a huge spinnaker with alternate
black and white cloths at Cowes Regatta.
Around the turn of the century, the
late Mark Foy, who spent thousands
fostering open-boat sailing, bent canvas
of similar design. Always ready to experi-
ment, Foy had two boats built on the
lines of catamarans. One 24ft. long
named Flying Fish sported jib and main-
sail with alternate green and white cloths.
The second craft, the Flying Fox, if
memory serves, was a 20-footer with
alternate sail-cloths of maroon and
black.
The boats were two double-ended
canoes, decked, and joined together about
6ft. apart by an overall deck. Each boat
carried a centreboard and each a rudder
yoked together by a tie-beam, with a
tiller at centre.
Flying Fish was a wizard “off a wind,’
especially in light air; but Flying Fox
never amounted to much.
Flying Fish provided my greatest thrill
scudding before a black westerly on the
Harbor when, although all hands were
trimmed as far aft as possible, a par-
ticularly heavy stinker gave us a swim.
Burying her snout in the drink she turned-
turtle forward —a complete forward
somersault.
HELLDUD.
HALVE THE DIFFERENCE
“The Australian trade-union congress in
Melbourne in September will be asked to
support a 30-hour week.”
With the “Labor” party split
In two,
It seems silly, doesn't it,
To do
Forty hours, as formerly
Decided ?
“Labor’s” labor, too, should be
Divided.
Let us rather hear them speak
Of twenty,
Than of forty, hours a week —
That’s plenty:
Workers of all trades, from springs
To salves,
Should get used to doing things
By halves.
All might go upon their way
Lighthearted
If the party’s working-day
Were parted:
Mornings for the Santamarian
Groupers,
Afternoons for Bert’s Cromwellian
Troopers.
Hours may drop and factions rage
And row,
But none must get a lower wage
Than now :
To this all in any plight
Are plighted —
Benighted “Labor’s” day and night
United.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A WOMAN holidaying in Noumea went
on a trip by tourist-bus. The party,
with the exception of the driver and one
other, were women, and the lone male-
tourist, an Australian, had lingered in
the bar before they set out and slunk
aboard the bus at the last minute. He
sat in the back-seat, and snored gently.
The road was winding, and very steep,
and the bus hurtled along at a speed
which literally threw several passengers
from their seats. Cries of “Driver, not
so fast! Slow down!” were received with
uncomprehending shrugs and smiles.
Obviously the driver understood no word
of any tongue other than his native,
French. The man on the back-seat,
wakened by the lurching bus, staggered
to his feet, and, clinging to the seat in
front of him, made a precarious way to
the front, tapped the driver on the
shoulder, and when that worthy looked
round, snarled at him, “Slow down, you
b ! ” It worked like Esperanto. The
driver slowed down,, the rest of the trip
was idyllic, and the triumphant male
returned to his interrupted slumbers. —
“F.A.M.”
❖ ❖ *
“Tonsi”: Recent alterations by persons
unknown to the whitewashed stones on a
foothill of Mt. Wellington, which have
“Okay! Next lot , please.”
for many years reminded Hobartians of
the existence of “Keen’s Curry,” have
thrown people’s minds back to a morn-
ing a quarter of a century ago when they
woke to find the familiar landmark read-
ing “Hell’s Curse.” Several of the hard-
working stone-shifters in that University
commem. prank now hold prominent
positions, the occupancy of which would
leave them little alternative but to frown,
officially at any rate, at such student
pranks.
❖ ♦> ♦♦♦
“Doynest”: Far from objecting to
undies being called lingerie, I entirely
agree with “Alma” (B. 10/8/’55) that
“lingerie” is more glamorous and appro-
priate. The word came into use with
the advent of modern advertising, pro-
bably at the same time as a Melbourne
organisation calling itself the Society for
the Prevention of the Display of Ladies’
Underclothing faded out through lack
of feminine supporters.
❖ *t* ♦♦♦
“Yakipan”: Memories of Baker-street!
In Collins-street, Melbourne, I saw wait-
ing on a safety-zone for a tram a man
wearing a genuine Sherlock Holmes deer-
stalker cap. Peaks fore and aft and a
natty bow on the top.
<3* ♦> ♦>
“Baggyduds”: To encourage careful
driving the Army has instituted “Safe
Driving Awards,” which take the form
of a pat on the back by publication in
Command Routine Orders of accident-
free mileage and an appropriately-
colored windshield-plaque to denote the
amount of a.f.m. Checking pur drivers
(101 Tpt. PI., Brisbane) for award-
submissions it was found that drivers for
the Army Minister and G.O.C. Northern
Command had chalked-up 78,600 and
36,800 unmarred travel respectively. Can-
not hazard the record-breaking potential
in these figures, but for one whose driving
ability does not extend past the man-
powered lawnmower, they are mighty
impressive.
❖ *X* *t*
“Double X”: Following the local press
statement that another smart schoolboy
had promptly answered “Beer!” to the
catch question in Roman notation “And
what does XXXX stand for?” comes the
news that Dublin publicans, having sur-
vived a strike of barmen, are now
afflicted by a strike of drinkers, who
object to increased prices. Nearly as bad
as the old times of “the troubles,” when
customers would leave the bar to avoid
the “Black and Tans,” leaving Bung to
put up with the “insults” of the “ignorant
heathen ,” who would demand, of all
things, “Gui- ness twinty ]”
❖ ❖ +>
“Quo Vadis” : A decided asset to the
new hotel in a Queensland country town
is the “entertainment balcony.” There,
after-dinner guests may congregate and
enjoy, gratis, as in a dress-circle, the
evening programme being filmed at the
open-air theatre across the laneway.
Strangely enough, this extra amenity was
not featured in the architect’s plans, nor
envisaged by the talkie-proprietor, either.
It is believed that improvements to the
theatre in the near future are likely to in-
clude its roofing-in.
“Peter Piper”: Mr. Calwell, travelling
with a Parliamentary party, gave high
praise to the discipline and efficiency
of the Royal Papuan Constabulary. He
had seen nothing better, he said, even at
Duntroon. The same day a local paper
reported on a stoush between the R.P.C.
and some recalcitrant kanakas:
Mr. M (a junior officer of the R.P.C.)
said, “I think I asked Mr. A [a senior
officer] whether it was necessary for the
police to fix-bayonets. Mr. A said they
could fix-bayonets if they wished to do so”
Duntroon please note.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Macquarie”: Shouldn’t that line of
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s end with
“Well, who Wouldn't be popular? She speaks five languages !”
“wattle blossoms wave,” not “bloom”
(B. 3/8/’55)? It has to rhyme with
If the sturdy station-children gather
wildflowers on my grave
I may chance to hear them romping
overhead.
The stanza was quoted when objections
were raised to turning the old and
neglected cemetery at Leichhardt (N.S.W.)
into a public park. Perhaps the lines
carried weight, for the park was formed
on the site, the sandstone headstones
being shaped into dimension-stone and
used to build a low wall around the area
and a splendid arch at the entrance. The
name “Pioneer Park” worked in the
arch-stones honors those who may
chance to hear the romping overhead.
“Kaymara”: Scientists are at work on
a gadget to “kill unwanted noise.” Nice
to know; but surely there’s no real need
to improve on the present turning-off
knob on the wireless?
• *** ♦♦♦
“Pongo”: Tell “Brick E.” (B. 3/8/’55)
that those cream enamelled-face bricks
which face Mark Foys’ building in
Sydney were imported years before, not
after, World War I; and not because
Australian brickyards wouldn’t make
them, but because they couldn’t then
make them.
“Maitri”: Just when
I was about to begin a
broadcast in Colombo
the arrangements
were casually Eastern,
“Just carry on till
you’re tired, then we’ll
put on some records!”
sort of thing—l was
asked if I’d like a glass
of water in case my
throat got dry. Expect-
ing to hold forth for
about an hour, I
thought it might be an
idea; but, instead of
water on the table be-
side me, an employee
was placed at the door
some 25ft. off—not the
usual cheerful type of
Sinhalese but a tall,
dignified - looking indi-
vidual with a long,
forked beard and pierc-
ing eyes. Voluminous
garments and white
turban enhanced his
impressiveness. A jug
of water held in one
hand, a glass in the
other, he all but mes-
merised me with his
unwavering stare; he
looked for all the world
like the Sunday-school picture of a stern,
forbidding Moses descending from
Mount Sinai. At intervals, when
he thought I could do with one, the
prophet poured a dram into the glass,
doubled tiptoe to the mike and practically
poured the stuff down my throat. I stood
up to it well for the first half-dozen
times, but in the end I closed the session
not because I was tired, but because I
was verging on hysteria.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Narumee”: The newly-arrived officer
was taken aback when informed that, to
be permitted to drive the department’s
Holden, he must undergo a driving-test
—he who had held an unblemished licence
for 20 years and driven British and Ameri-
can cars the length' and breadth of the
U.K., the Continent, and India; even
driven a Holden in Melbourne’s peak-
hour traffic. At the appointed time he
was ordered to clamber into a 5-ton
truck and get going. He protested that
he hadn’t handled such a vehicle before.
They replied that all departmental driving-
tests were held on the truck. Yes, there
was some preliminary gear-bashing, and
yes, he was failed. Which is why he
travels in state beside an unnecessary
driver.
❖ ❖
“Tos”: The New Settlers’ League in
Queensland provides New Australians
with a card which carries the correct
pronunciation and the correct spelling of
the bearer’s name. For example:
Pronunciation: Koos-nets-off.
Spelling: Kuznecow.
On social occasions the card may be worn
on the lapel or dress. It is particularly
helpful, too, when the New Australian
applies for a job. The card, itself, is
termed an “Assimilation Card.”
❖ ❖ *x*
“Doric”: Are there such things as
soundproof rooms? They are not in
our music-shops, anyhow. Wishing to
buy a phonograph-record, I was ushered
into one of the alleged silent compart-
ments. What with boogie-woogie in full
blast on one side and Gilbert and Sulli-
van on the other, it was impossible to
hear my Wagner properly, although I
must admit that Wagner’s brass beat all-
comers.
*X* +X+
“Sister Ellell”: I showed a well-known
eye-specialist that drawing of the opto-
metrist with the sight-testing aid depict-
ing “You still owe five-pounds for your
last visit” instead of the usual letters.
Maybe it was the last day for lodging
tax-returns that caused his gloom, for
he only gave the ghost of a smile, and
said lugubriously, “Some people earn
their money easily, don’t they?”
❖ ♦♦♦ *X*
“F.X.O’M., Jnr.”: A big company that
manufactures parts for motor-cars has
sent out to its various branches a “Notice
To All Employees” which some of the
branches are objecting to displaying:
Due to increased competition and a
desire to stay in business, we find it neces-
sary to institute a new policy. We are
asking that somewhere between starting and
finishing time, and without infringing too
much on the time usually devoted to
lunch-periods, tea-breaks, rest-periods,
story-telling, ticket-selling, holiday-planning,
and the discussion on last night’s radio-
programme and next Saturday’s race-
meeting, each employee endeavor to find
some time that can be set aside and known
as the “work-period.”
There is at least one thing omitted—
“drawing-the-sweep-period.”
NOT UNDERSTOOD
“Petitioner said her husband used to go out
every night playing poker. Although his wages
were £lB a week he gave her only £4 to keep-
nouse on. When she complained that this was
insufficient for even the food-bills, he left. He
never returned.” —Court evidence.
Strong sympathy is called for here.
Fate handed him the rawest deal;
A generous fellow, it is clear,
And yet he’s made to look a heel!
His was the right to know just what
She did with all the cash she got;
Spent on herself, most probably.
Or else she was that type of spouse
Not competent to run a house —
Extravagant to a degree.
No man with thoughts on higher things
Like clicking for an ace-high straight,
Or sitting pat upon four kings
Should be exposed to things that grate
Like gas-bills, and the rent, and such
(Which have a far too sordid touch).
He was, in fact, a tolerant joker.
Many a one who played the “broads”
Would in like case have leaned towards
The strongest of desires to choke her.
He might have had his fill of ease
With fire and pipe and slippers, but
He nobly sacrificed all these ;
In duty bound the cards to cut.
He could have sat and watched her gap
Open and shut in endless yap
About the foibles of their neighbors.
This boundless pleasure he abjured;
Instead, he patiently endured
The grimness of his poker labors.
She was a matrimonial dunce ;
She simply couldn’t understand
A poker-player needs much bunce
To back a really decent hand.
A far more understanding wife
Would have averted all this strife
By seeking for herself employment
To supplement the “bank” her lord
Needed at night. Rich her reward
By making greater his enjoyment.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


niiKi- S
TAA
n
dfg
INTRODUCE A NEW ERA OF AIR TRAVEL
The four Rolls-Royce propeller-turbine engines run
so smoothly that a pencil may be stood upright on
the arm of your chair. Research has proved that
vibration causes air travel fatigue. That’s why you
feel so fresh when you step off your TAA Viscount
the smoothest, fastest, most comfortable airliner
in Australia.
TAA
Reservations:
or
taa booking offices Aee STATES
any authorised Travel Agent.
1 NPVI2B
PERSONAL ITEMS!
Here, with a very fond brief for sub-
marines (he became a submariner 30
years back), Rear-Admiral George
Fawkes is showing himself to the far-
based sub. squadron of the Royal Navy
working from Sydney—Forbes (O.C. of
R.N. Submarines) being their boss. Also
Nato’s sub.-commander in the Eastern
Atlantic, the visitor himself commanded
a flotilla early in War 11, later liaisoned
with the Russians in the Black Sea, and
got a bit out of his class of craft when,
in 1951, he was appointed Chief of Staff,
Home Fleet, serving in carrier Indomit-
able. Later the flag shifted to battleship
Vanguard. Reckons the submarine’s the
shot for any atomic war —as regards both
delivery and receiving ends.
• •
Himself hereunder portrayed, South
Australian artist Max Ragless taught
himself to paint, and reckons ruefully
that it took him 25 years to find out
what a teacher could have told him in
five. Now member of the Australian
Academy of Art and Royal South Aus-
tralian Society of Arts, he’s son of an
Edwardstown farmer and orchardist, and
began studying woolclassing at about the
ARTIST
same early time he started to paint. Till
recently he ran a large vineyard on his
property, but now the vines have been
uprooted and the land subdivided for
home-building. Not at all ragless—oyer
the past 10 years he has been weaving
cloth to make his own suits, and clothes
for his wife and two nippers, using a
Heath Robinson hand-loom he built him-
self. The painter’s hands are also used
to tinker with the innards of ancient
motor-cars —younger he was a motor-
cycle dirt-track speedster. A pioneer
caravaner, also, he’s been exploring the
Australian countryside for 20 years.
• •
From London to Queensland in 1912
came W. K. Holmans, to be inducted
nine years later as a Baptist minister.
The other day he was inducted as presi-
dent of the Baptist Union in Queensland.
• •
In Australia to join the Borovansky
Ballet (now in Adelaide), David Lichine,
choreographer and dancer, studied under
Bronislava Nijinska, sister of Nijinsky.
Lichine created a dozen ballets which
appear on world programmes, notably
the fierce “Francesca da Rimini,” with
which he captivated and staggered Mel-
bourne when he first produced and danced
in it with the De Basil Russian Ballet.
He was also with Ida Rubinstein and
Pavlova. A White Russian, he is State-
less, and travels on a Nansen passport,
a most uncomfortable proceeding in these
days ; he wants to exchange it for Ameri-
can citizenship. His wife, Tatiana
Riabouchinska, lives in Los Angeles with
their nine-year-old daughter, already on
the way to being a ballerina.
“Allan B.”: The Victorian Mental
Hygiene Authority has made a pro-
gressive move in appointing its first full-
time chaplain, to Ballarat Mental Hos-
pital—the Rev. J. A. Judge, former
sapper-officer with the Eighth Army, who
spent most of his war-years in the
Western Desert. After being inducted
into his new job the other day Rev. Judge
told a story about two sappers pinned-
down by heavy fire. They were in a
shallow slit trench and things were pretty
hot. “Can y’ pray, Bill?” says one.
“Nun-no,” says Bill. “Do y’ know any
hymns then?” “Nun-no.” Then, with a
mortar spitting a few yards away, “Cripes,
that was close. We’ve gotta do something
religious. Let’s take up a collection!”
• •
“Cauboy” on a Grand Old Mother:
“Miss” is gone. Known thus to thousands
of past and present newsboys, Edith Onians
was a well-brought-up young lady from
Fontainebleau Ladies’ College, St. Kilda, who
found she was able, like Dickens, to identify
herself with less-fortunate people; —in her case,
the barefooted and often starving kids who
thronged the streets of Melbourne yelling
“piper” during the bad days of the bank-
crash back in last century. Dickens took the
way of novel-writing, “Miss” the way ot
practical help and education, She collected the
waifs and strays, begged and borrowed a few
desks and tables and started a “school” in the
basement of the old Bijou in Bourke-street.
Above the “school” the comedians were crack-
ing jokes about the depression. One joke she
heard made a deep impression: a bedraggled
mother towing a dirty infant is accosted by the
low-comedian. “How old is the boy, madam?”
asks the 1.-c. “Four,” says the mother.
“Time he was working.” Between 1897 and
1936 Miss Onians collected from the gutters
more than 20,000 boys, and in 1936 she
acquired a pub, the Adam and Eve, in Little
Collins-street, and made it into a clubhouse
for her city newsboys, equipping it slowly with
a fine library, a swimming-pool, dental- and
medical-clinics and classrooms for teaching the
crafts, where doctors, teachers, sportsmen and
dentists give voluntary assistance. Among her
graduates are included a Cabinet Minister, heads
of at least two Government departments,
scores of successful executives of city businesses
and a parson. In 1930 she persuaded Parlia-
ment to institute legislation prohibiting boys
under 12 selling papers.
• •
“M.F.D.”: I first met Charles Shaw
(B. 10/8/’55) when he came to the
A.B.C. to inquire about a job on the
independent news-service, then in the
offing. Shaw told me he could link-up
with The Bulletin at any time, but
thought A.B.C. might suit him better.
He laid his cards on the table with such
obvious frankness and sincerity that I
wished I could tie Trim up with a con-
tract before leaving the office ; but Shaw
told me he would like time to think it
over. He came back next day to say he
was joining The Bulletin, feeling that
he would have an opportunity there to
wute more freely about the places and
people in which he was so deeply in-
terested. Regretfully I told him I
thought he was right; but I never ceased
to regret being unable to tie him in with
the service. He knew the outback as no
other A.B.C. man knew it and would
have been a great asset to us.
“Bill C.”: So Charles Shaw, or “Old-
timer,” is gone? Many were the friendly
letters he wrote me when I first started
writing pars, for the “Man On The Land”
page some 15 years ago. Advice on stuff
to send The Bulletin, sometimes a re-
quest for information as to where an
interested farmer might get seed of some
forage-plant described in one of my
“M.L.” pars. One note I well recall:
You’re always telling us of the evils of
overstocking, but you’re overstocking us
with M.L. pars. We’re glad to get ’em, but
how about some Abori. pars?
He never wasted a word in his letters,
but I think that “Abori” wasn’t just a
short way of writing “Aboriginalities” ;
it was a suggested pen-name, Shaw was
responsible for most of my numerous pen-
names, including the one above this par.
I grieve the loss of a real mate and friend.
Sir/ Hugo Marshall, Chief-Secretary
of the Federation of Nigeria, will be
succeeded by a New Zealander, R. F. A.
Grey, of Wellington, a Bachelor of Laws,
who linked-up with Nigeria in 1937, be-
came secretary to the Governor-General
and the Council of Ministers. Before
Nigeria, he was associate to a judge of
the N.Z. Supreme Court and the Court
of Appeal.
• •
“Corpus”: “Melbn” (B. 3/8/’55) is a
bit out when he says .a Melbourne land-
mark wifi go when a 10-story block of
State Government offices is erected on
the site of the Australian Church in
Russell-street. The “old fane” was not
built in 1885, but in the late 1920’5. Dr.
Strong’s original church was built in
Flinders-street, and was a Gothic struc-
ture. The Doctor’s adherents were not
possessed of his longevity, and, as new
converts were not numerous, congregar
tions dwindled. The old building was
sold to a motor-firm, and the congrega-
tion moved to the present building.
• •
The biggest show in Melbourne of late
was Anzaas, put on at the University by
the largest and most brilliantly accoutred
company of actors ever seen in those
parts. The roles, played entirely by stars,
included astronomy, chemistry, geology,
zoology, history, anthropology, econo-
mics, engineering, microbiology, educa-
tion, agriculture, veterinary-science,
botany, physiology, and pharmaceutical-
science. Presiding over the performance
was Professor Woolley, Australian Com-
monwealth Astronomer, who, while not
quite as weighty physically as the late
Oscar Ascjie, is certainly of some weight
in his science. He is the third astronomer
to hold the position in the association’s
67 years of existence. The first was H. C.
Russell, who presided over its first meet-
ing in Sydney in 1888 ; the second, R. L.
J. Ellery, who presided over the 1900
Melbourne production.
• •
U.N.’s Economic Commission for Asia
and the Far East (Ecafe) takes in 20
countries, from Pakistan in the west to
Korea in the north and the Philippines in
the east. Seen hereunder is Jasper Mylne,
the only Australian and only architect on
a staff of about 100 technical people
working up there with Ecafe; headquar-
tered in Bangkok, housing and building-
material expert, he’s down south on leave
after two years away. Mylne was senior
architect in the Canberra Department of
Works when asked to organise low-cost
housing throughout South-East Asia. He
works with some 20 different nationals —•
the commission’s head an Indian (econo-
ARCHITECT
mist), his immediate boss a Burmese, and
there are a couple of Yanks —and two
regional research-centres have been
established. Before heading north Mylne
had a year in Europe on a survey of
prefabs for the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. Earlier still he’d been absent from
Canberra, doing a bit of knocking-down
with sth Field Company Engineers,
operating in New Guinea, the Solomons,
ending the war on Bougainville. Leave up,
he’ll make for Bangkok for another year.
An August man is Stanley Willmott,
boss-cocky of Arthur Cocks and Co.,
big wholesalers in Brisbane. In August he
was born (Birmingham, Eng., 1888), and
thenceforward it was a ladder of upward
steps, all taken in that month. Dental-
apprentice from August, 1905, to August,
1908 ; married, August; left for New
Guinea with the first expeditionary
force, August, 1914; crossed to
artillery in England, lieutenant (out of
time-step there); but got back into
stride by leaving the drop-shorters and
AUGUSTER
joining the R.A.F., serving therewith from
August, 1916, to —yes—August, 1919.
In War II he plumped for his last love,
ending-up as an administrative squadron-
leader in the R.A.A.F. In August, 1921,
he became a director of the parent com-
pany in Sydney, having, in August, 1919,
been appointed g.-m. in Brisbane. And
so (this month of August) he completes
50 years’ working-time, from dental-
apprentice to general-manager. On the
less august side, he’s presided over the
Australian Automobile Association, Aus-
tralian Hockey • Association, Brisbane
Rotary, Queensland Masonic Club and
the R.A.C.Q. In 1921 (month not re-
corded) he took over captaincy of the
Queensland hockey-team, and repped for
Australia in the game.
• •
Into the Silence:
At 55, while holidaying at Middalya station
near Carnarvon (W.A.), Geoffrey Maxwell,
formerly one of Westralia’s most prominent
.young athletes. He represented Scotch College
at swimming (schoolboy champion), life-
saving, rowing, cricket, football and athletics,
and was the first Westralian schoolboy to
swim 100yds. in lmin., breaking the record by
4 3-5 sec. While still at school, he played
Aussie Rules League with two South Fremantle
premiership sides. Latterly he was one of the
State’s best-known woolbuyers.
In Fremantle, at 93, Isaiah Wauhop, a
schoolmaster who crossed from Bendigo in
1900 and was one of the first to teach short-
hand and bookkeeping, as well as ordinary
subjects, in Westralian State schools. With
teachers short in War 11, he came back from
retirement, despite his years, and taught in
a country school for the duration.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 76, C. J. Morrison,
founder of New Zealand’s largest printing-mk
manufacturers. In 1899 a journeyman m
Melbourne, he joined the Victorian Imperial
Bushmen and sailed in the Great Eastern in
1900 for South Africa at 20. The fighting done,
he went to England and became associated with
the new Monotype setting-machine; then to
Ireland and Italy to demonstrate its value,
ending-up as head of the Monotype plant in
the Government Printing Office in Melbourne.
Fifty years back he crossed to Christchurch to
establish the ink-making firm.
At 54, in Brisbane, Fred Derrick, big m
Brisbane business, for 17 years secretary of the
Queensland Retail Grocers’ Association. He a
been vice-president of the Australian-American
Association.
In London, at 63, Sergeant Leslie Loveday,
who established a record for a New Zealander
at Bisley. Chosen in 1919 with a team ot
riflemen from the N.Z.E.F. in France, he was
in the team that won the Kolapore Cup, ana
he won the King’s Prize in individual competi-
tions —only Enzedder to do so. He taught his
son Alan the violin, making him a midget one
when Alan —now a violinist of international
renown —was a three-year-old.


CLOAK-AND-DAGGER STUFF


ABORIGINALITIES
of a small southern
N.S.W. animal nursery was puzzled
one morning to find that the porcupine
had a large patch on his back where the
quills had been sawn, or severed, almost
to the skin. Suspecting small boys, he
kept a careful watch, and was amazed to
find that the culprits were rabbits! Porky,
in the same pen, would shuffle into their
burrow, curl up in what he thought was
a safe and prickly ball, and sleep. The
rabbits nibbled him, whether for a change
of diet or as a reprisal for his invasion
of their domain is anybody’s guess.—
“Bet.”
* * * *
“Wingella”: Had a pet emu that loved
to lie full-length under the water in the
duckpond, with just his head out of the
drink ; and he’d roll over and over, kick-
ing out his long legs as if swimming. On
these N.T. foreshores I have seen emus
and kangaroos make their way down to
the edge of the tide, the kangaroos to
nuzzle in the saltwater, apparently appre-
ciating its taste, and the emus lying at
full-length, letting the waves wash over
them, as happy as any paddling boy,
rolling over from one side to the other,
and kicking their long legs with delight.
* * 5? *
“Gravelsnatcher”: At Arbor Day cere-
monies in W.A. schools trees were
planted to the memory of old native
chieftains, including one who was shot
for spearing white timber-hewers. The
chief had previously been friendly, and
it was assumed that he became incensed
at what he considered the wanton destruc-
tion of living things. That’s probably
correct, because the natives, with inade-
quate reserves of food, husbanded their
natural resources and protected them with
rigid laws. The eucalypts harbored and
fed possums, which were a delicacy, so
the trees were preserved. And so with
other trees for other reasons.
* * * *
“Konmak”: Daintiest of Australian
flying things is surely the tiny sunbird of
“We must be outside the three-mile limit.”
Queensland’s far-northern coast. E. J.
Banfield, in Last Leaves from Dunk
Island, aptly likens it to the American
humming-bird. From a window over-
looking my garden I have just been
watching a pair extract nectar and insects
from a red russellia clump. That plant,
with foliage like soft pine-needles, has
very slender flower-tubes hanging in long
racemes from its branches. As a sunbird
hovers beside the flower its curved beak
is plundering, its wings move so fast they
are practically invisible, though no hum-
ming sound is audible. The male is a
handsome fellow underneath, golden-
tinted with a royal-blue bib or choker,
though he is an inconspicuous olive-grey
above, for protective reasons. His mate
lacks his shining bib, but is just as dainty
and quick. Their gay, soft twittering
gives a happy undertone to the garden’s
louder bird-music. A pair of tiny painted-
finches, their vivid red trimmings ashine,
look big and overgaudy in comparison.
Banfield comments on the disappearance
of sunbirds during rain ; but my little
friends seem indifferent to drizzling
showers.
* afc * #
“Centralian”: In Alice Springs two
businessmen had a long-standing griev-
ance over the habit of one of parking
his vehicle in the other’s backyard. The
sufferer finally got sick of talking, and the
offender went to get his car one morning
and found it enclosed in a neat wire-fence
which had been erected overnight. It
took an apology and a promise never to
repeat to get the fence taken down.
• * # *
“Barfoot”: The line we were surveying
led across a large paddock, domicile of
a huge, ferocious-looking bull. After
belligerent moves on its part, our attempt
at chaining across the paddock ended
in panic-stricken flight to the safe side
of the fence. The farmer was appealed
to, and rather dubiously promised to send
someone to remove the bull. Presently
a figure approached, brandishing a length
of rope—a small girl of perhaps eight or
nine, barely tall enough to slip the halter
round Ferdinand’s horns. She turned
and gave us a cheery wave as she led
away the monster, reduced under her
imperious gaze from several hundred
pounds of angry, animated beef to a
fatuous minion.
* 9 * «
“Rostapd”: One night we had a record
going—Handel’s “Water Music”—when
something moved in an ancient wattle-
tree just outside. “It’s a possum,” said
my son. Then came sounds similar to an
old man’s chuckle. We shone a torch —
to see two tawny-frogmouths necking
to the sound of Handel’s music!
Beak fondled beak and they nuzzled each
other’s neck-feathers, only 6ft. away from
us. The record stopped and off they
flew.
* * * *
“Dick the Fossicker”: Back in 1906
three Westralian prospectors—McAuliffe,
Moss and Roxborough—went to have a
look at a find, the Lady Margaret, near
Yerilla, then started to prospect the
country around it. McAuliffe, who had
become camel-sore, stayed behind one
day. Perched on a rock outcrop, he
glanced down to see glints of yellow—he
was sitting on a mass of specimen stone,
and pegged it at once. They called it
“Queen of the Earth,” and from a hole
only 12ft. long, Bft. wide and a little over
6ft. deep took out a heap of quartz
spangled with gold. The only team of
bullocks on the W.A. goldfields came out
to haul the stone to a battery. That load
of stone cleaned-up for £60,000. It was
all that ever came out of the Queen of the
Earth claim. Was it the most valuable
load ever drawn by a bullock-team?
* * * *
“J. 8.”: Our kids’ pony would eagerly
share the lunch-time sandwiches, even
when they had meat in them, though he
firmly rejected those with mustard. Cake
never came amiss. He loved cream-puffs,
and his efforts to get the last of the
cream off his whiskers were worth seeing.
He went for home-made lollies, though
“Sorry, but Miss Bolter's not on the prize-list.”
with the confection known as “moonshine
biffs” he would lick off the coconut and
spit out the marshmallow. Then he’d
top-off with a drink of tea from a tin
pannikin. Also, our big marmalade cat
refused duck or fowl, and any fish except
tinned salmon and sardines, but showed
a partiality for mushrooms, and it was
foolish to leave chocolate within his
reach.
* * * *
“Narryna”: The folk-museum at York
(Eng.) on The Bulletin cover (13/7/’55)
followed an announcement by the Tas-
manian Government that it was estab-
lishing Australia’s first folk-museum
much on the same lines. It is a sesqui-
centenary gesture, intended as a lasting
tribute to the pioneers. Built in the pre-
Victorian period by Captain Andrew
Haig, Narryna stands on part of the
property granted to chaplain Bobby
Knopwood in 1804, in the old-world
Hobart suburb of Battery Point. It will
house period-stuff of the early days, the
idea being to present something of the
“folk-life” set-up of Tasmania’s first
settlers.
* * * *
“Tasma Jun.”: Does anyone know the
origin of the term “sad-iron”? In my
boyhood days a “sad-iron” (of the flat-
iron type) formed part of the kitchen
set-up for laundry-purposes; it was
heated at the stove or fire and carefully
tested with a damp forefinger before being
pushed over the clothes. Ironing-day
usually saw an array of them in the fire-
place. I’ve searched dictionaries without
being able to trace the name. Was “sad-
iron” an imported term, or is it a corrup-
tion of something else?
* * * *
“Kobtro”: Odd that, after having been
domesticated for so many years, turkeys
still retain some “wild” habits. Thus, a
turkey will warn her chickens of danger
by changing the note of her call, and the
young ones will melt invisibly into the
grass, and stay absolutely silent and
hidden until Mother gives the all-clear.
I don’t know of any other well-tamed
creature that harks back to its wild state
so completely in emergency.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: When a new street is made
in Parramatta (N.S.W.) it is proposed to
erect another traffic-bridge over Parra-
matta River. In a distance of less than
one mile at the present time there are
three traffic-bridges, two low-level con-
crete crossings and three footbridges over
this river, surely an Australian bridge-
record. The traffic-bridges include the
Lennox bridge, one of the oldest in the
country.
* * * *
“S.G.”: A big metal-company is financ-
ing a search for nickel at Mt. Dayies
(S.A.), and a find in quantity would suit
our heavy industries. World consumption
is only about 130,000 tons a year—
not much considering the millions of tons
of steels produced—but nickel is mighty
valuable and it has some remarkable
effects. Anything less than 2 per cent,
added to steel doesn’t seem to have much
effect; but increase the dose by 1 per
cent, or 2 per cent, and the tensile-
strength of steel goes up by 60001 b. to
10,0001 b. a square inch. Bring the per-
centage of nickel up to 13 per cent, and
you can’t drill the alloy; increase it to
25 per cent, and you can’t magnetise it;
and with a bit more nickel the steel
acquires a high electrical-resistance. The
right amount reduces tendency to rust
and increases hardness, toughness, and
tensile-strength ; and a new word, “invar,”
has been coined for certain steels with a
high nickel-content —they’re invariable
to the extent that they don’t expand or
contract with ordinary changes in tem-
perature. At present nearly 90 per cent,
of the world’s nickel comes from Canada.
* * * *
“G.S.”: A sunfish weighing 6001 b. and
measuring over 6ft. each way was washed
up on a beach at Rottnest, W.A.’s holiday
resort off Fremantle. The big flabby
mass is almost tailless, but it has power-
ful dorsal and anal fins with which it
propels itself along; prominent eyes and
a small mouth, with a dental-plate very
like a turtle’s. You can’t eat any part of
it. This specimen wasn’t a big one by
any means. They’ve been caught up to
16001 b., and probably go much bigger.
* * * *
■M7HEN I last saw her, not long back,
’’ the old Maitland was lying at the
Launceston wharves.
Launched as a three-masted schooner
at Sunderland (Eng.) over half a century
ago, on her arrival in these parts she
was put into the Tasmanian and Victorian
general-cargo trades. Later, her masts
were cut down and she ran in the Vic-
torian coastal service. She plied for a
time between Melbourne and the Gipps-
land Lakes, earning a reputation for sea-
worthiness and schedule-timing in all
weathers, although her average steam-
ing speed was only about 10 knots.
Changing over to a job as a tugboat,
she was employed in Port Phillip Bay
for a while, then once more came on
to the general-cargo traffic, on the run
between Melbourne, Burnie and Ulver-
stone.
After two years of that she was given
a face-lift and refitted as a mail- and
passenger-craft in the Western Australian
service. She ran between Albany, Eucla
and Esperance for three years or so, then
once more returned to her Melbourne
haunts as a tug. The Launceston Marine
Board bought her 25 years ago for £lOOO,
and found her a splendid paying proposi-
tion.
When last sighted she was having every-
thing of value taken from her, and the
empty shell was to be offered for sale
as, perhaps, a houseboat. If no bidders,
the old ship would end her days along-
side some other derelicts down the
Tamar.
WANDANA.
“WORMY” ANDERSON
Along the lonely stretch of beach
His world ends at a slap-dash shack,
And all the days take pace on pace,
And all the years make track.
The tides his mornings, evenings, are;
Alike to him the calms, the storms.
Through seasons brisk and seasons slack
He bends and drags for worms.
Brown, narrow face and watchful eyes,
An old felt hat and dungarees,
He wanders on the sand’s wet rim
And scuffles pipis from the seas.
When summer stars are anemones
In one deep pool and open yet,
With bobbing lamp he wades the lake
At prawning with a net.
For years his solitary way,
Slow pendulum, as man and boy,
Has led him to the low-tide rocks
To hack off cunjevoi.
When rodeo and carnival
And tourists come from far and wide,
He pauses on the fringe of crowd,
A rock unwashed by tide.
They say his tongue is oyster-shell,
That he has fins for legs and arms
And brine for blood. No matter what,
He goes on nipping worms.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


LAVINA
91'"A-^
<• \o . ©
Ob, V>-
ti£o* v,
*..2
js*ta
n/
aSai
Choice of Millions since 1852
L31.62
A Lavina Watch
is not only the per-
fect timepiece, but
also an odornment, a
pa piece of jewellery
W* created for the cur-
rent mode.
Here are shown two
of the latest Lavina
models that conform to
the trend of daintier
watches for ladies and
larger watches for men.
Ask at your favourite
j ewellers or watchmakers
to see the newest Lavina
17-jewelled Swiss Master-
piece.
Lavina Prices range from:
Men’s— £l4/5/-; Ladies’—
£l4/10/-.
ALBERT G. SIMS
LIMITED
(Incorporated in New; South Wales on Bth August, 1929.)
REGISTERED OFFICE: 1 Wilford Street, Newtown.
ISSUE AT PAR OF
£lOO,OOO IN REGISTERED
UNSECURED NOTES OF
£lOO EACH
PER ANNUM
Net tangible assets cover of £391 for each note of £lOO.
Last disclosed profits equal 11.28 times amount required for annual interest.
CURRENCY: 21 YEARS AVERAGE
{Half of each note repayable in two years, remainder in three years.)
ISSUE NOW OPEN
Prospectus and application forms available from:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
or
MEMBERS OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
Trustees for the Noteholders:
BURNS PHILP TRUST COMPANY LIMITED
Underwriting Brokers:
J. & J. NORTH
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.)
place was right against the
main Melbourne-Adelaide railway,
and in front of the house the line
took a slight bend before entering a deep
cutting; and more than once an odd
case of fruit fell off at our front-door.
They were regarded as gifts of God.
One evening two of the boys were miss-
ing from the cookhouse roll-call; lanterns
were lit, and a search made. A trail of
broken eggs led to the fowlhouse, where
one of them was discovered lying head-
first, dead-to-the-world asleep in the
fowlhouse doorway. The other was
lying, equally oblivious, about 20ft. away
beside the tangled ruins of Father’s bike.
Sunstroke! . . . Then Mother caught a
whiff of their breaths. Next day they
were able to explain that a large barrel
of wine had rolled off the train and in
its fall down the steep embankment had
sprung a leak and they had helped them-
selves. Father raced to the scene, but
he scarcely salvaged enough to wet the
head of the ganger’s new baby daughter.
Of course, we had our losses, too. Quite
a lot of chooks got in the road of the
train, and so did the tail of our tabby
cat, Robert. He went off one night
wearing it as usual, but left it lying beside
the railway-line. We couldn’t agree
whether he was darned lucky or simply
wanted his name changed to Bob.
Kate.
* * # *
“Rexina”: Longest-burning fire I
have seen was on an old sheep-camp in
West Queensland. For years sheep had
been yarded at night in the same spot
and the resultant manure had built up
into a large hillock. A campfire lit
there started the decayed manure burning
and it kept on burning for nearly three
years.
* ♦ * ♦
“S.G.”: The plant known as kapok- or
pillow-bush has small black seeds enclosed
in fluffy white balls, which natives stuff
into bags for mattresses. How it reached
Australia in the first place is obscure.
It’s indigenous from Afghanistan through
India and Ceylon to Sumatra, and it
could have come in camel-feed or saddle-
packing, or pearlers might have brought it
in mattresses or pillows. As it isn’t fussy
about the soil it grows in it’s likely to go
a long way; more so as it’s a perennial
and develops a long taproot. In the better
parts of the Kimberleys (W.A.) cattle
won’t leave the other grasses for it, but
it’s being sown on some of the pindan
country, along with buffel-grass, another
importation in camel-feed ; and it’s wel-
come in the spinifex-country, where both
sheep and cattle like it. It has a high
protein-content, and that’s valuable in
country where the protein value of native-
grasses drops dangerously in dry seasons.
Sheep need a minimum of 8 per cent, of
crude protein to keep the rumen working
and allow them to make full use of the
feed they eat; without this they could
almost starve in the midst of plenty.
* * * *
“Dicky”: A musk-drake and two
ducks spent a summer near the water-
hole on the creek at my old home, and
practically every evening the drake
would oblige with a display of rare
aquatic tricks. His favorite sport was
tossing great sprays of water behind him
with a paddlewheel effort of his feet;
this was usually followed by a spinning
display, head thrown back, pouch in-
flated, and then a series of dizzy gyra-
tions. The ladies seemed unimpressed
by the display.
* * * *
“Nangabrook”: I’ll back the grey
fantail against the willy-wagtail at using
its scone to catch insects. Willy—he’s
the black-and-white fantail—certainly
makes good use of animals (B. 27/7/’55);
so does Grey to a small extent, but Grey
forms a much closer association with
man, and profits by it. He’s the friendliest
bird in the bush and one of the most
sagacious. I’ve often accompanied one
for a walk and marvelled as it snapped
up the insects that my progress disturbed ;
and I’ve had one snapping around me as
I picked fruit on an orchard. Also, when
nectar-sipping birds are around you’ll
often see a grey fantail with them,
following them from tree to tree, feeding
on the insects they rouse up,
* * * *
OUR ARBOREAL EMIGRES
T'HIS business of pinching Australian
native plants and taking them to other
countries (B. 20/7/’55) is at least 250
years old, probably older.
It seems to have started in 1699, when
William Dampier raided the Westralian
coast for specimens, though the Dutch
may have been doing it on the quiet for
nearly a century before that. Part of
Dampier’s collection is preserved at
Oxford, and might still include the prize
exhibit, the crimson dazzler now known
popularly as Sturt’s desert-pea and
botanically as Clianthus dampierii.
The place was fairly restful for the
next 70 years, until Cook arrived, and
Banks and Solander “did over” the east
coast, taking away thousands of speci-
mens.
Robert Brown, about the start of the
19th century, was the next big collector,
and between him and A. Menzies and a
sudden wave of Frenchmen La
Billardiere, Leschenault, Gaudichaud
and others—a sizeable heap of our flora
went overseas.
By the 1850’s dozens of species of
eucalypts were firmly established all over
“Stickybeaks!”
the world. Seventy years ago Von
Mueller reported that Eucalyptus regnans
(the big Victorian) grew 50ft. in eight
years in the south of France, and that
it endured the cold of New Zealand and
the milder parts of England. Quoting
from various sources, he said that some
eucalypts proved more hardy than others
in Rome; that the mountain-ash sur-
vived in the Isle of Arran; that in
southern Europe the rough-barked variety
grew five times as quickly as Corsican-
pine; that the, lemon-scented gum did
remarkably well in Lucknow, Zanzibar,
and Bengal; that tuart grew in seven
years to a good-sized tree in southern
France, as did karri, bastard-mahogany
and swamp-gum.
Of the bluegum, Mueller said, “It is
famous all over the world.” In southern
France it stood up to 19 degrees F., but
died at 17 degrees. It also died from
frost on the Black Sea and in Turkestan,
but survived in Cornwall, Hastings and
Dorset; and the sirocco did not destroy
it. On the hills of Jamaica it grew 60ft.
in seven years, in Florida 40ft. in four,
and in some parts of India faster still. In
the Nilgiri hills it grew four times as
fast as teak—3oft. in four years, 100 ft. in
12, while jarrah, marri and messmate
failed.
Between 2500 ft. and 7000 ft. it did par-
ticularly well in Central Mexico. In
Algeria and Portugal it gave railway-
sleepers in eight years, telegraph-poles in
10, and in the mountains of Guatemala
it grew to 120 ft. in 12 years and was a
yard across. It, too, proved hardy in the
Isle of Arran, as well as in Stewart
Island.
On the Isle of Arran the beautiful
white-gum grew 20ft. in seven years, and
silver-wattle, black-wattle and blackwood
also throve. Tallow-wood grew 30ft. in
two years in British Guiana; river-
redgum froze in Italy, resisted hurricanes
in Mauritius, grew 65ft. in six years in
Reunion, and very quickly in British
Guiana. Its close relative, forest-
redgum, grew 60ft. in seven years in the
Punjab, and a little Tasmanian, E.
urnigera, had been growing in the open
for 30 years at Hadington, in Scotland.
By now there can’t be many countries
where you won’t see an Australiarf tree.
I’m told that as you approach Athens
from the Port of Piraeus you drive along
an avenue lined with eucalypts and
peppermints, and away beyond the end of
it you can see the Acropolis. But some
Australian tourists who return chatter-
ing about pubs and art-galleries
wouldn’t know a eucalypt if they ran
their car up one.
Edx.
SPRING SONG
Swift the young freshets surge to meet and
pass,
Converging in the sudden eager tide
And, thrusting all their probing fingers wide,
Swallow the reeds and creep up on the grass.
The seldom channel finds itself unbound,
The high bank trembles, stormed by froth and
whirl, &
And thunderous the wavß rush in to swirl
The quiet pasture in a stress of sound.
Exultant, all the inlets of the mind
Open themselves to the wild stir and fret,
One with the restless sea, the waiting earth,
Tuned to the battling wing, the turning wind,
Seeking the moment gloriously set
To light the word and bring the song to birth.
N.Z.
NANCY BRUCE.


THE i
LIGHTING PLANT
WITH A
POWER 0F
wmm f
mm
iptyifi
NEVERTIRE
MULTI-PURPOSE POWER UNIT
No other lighting plant can do all
this simultaneously . ..
The "Nevertire" gives you 240 Volt A.C. current
for electric motors, household lighting and appli-
ances, tennis court lighting, electric ranges, and
reticulation to out-buildings, while simultaneously
it gives 32 Volt D.C. current for either battery charg-
ing or welding, normal house lighting with batteries,
and can, at the same time, charge 2, 6 and 12 Volt
Car, Tractor, Radio Batteries.
IMPORTANT: The “Nevertire” may be remote controlled from
any number of points. Full output of A.C. current can be used
whilst full D.C. output is in use!
OANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 Young Street, Circular Qua/, Sydney.
P.O. Box 509. Phone : BU 5095.
Branches : Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay.
And at Stubbs Street, Flemington, Melbourne, W.l.
FREE. Please send free literature
on the “Nevertire” Multi-purpose
Power Unit.
NAME !
ADDRESS
B.U.N. EDC 25
foniiffliiywcux
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
p
w
'M
Prices from
25'- to 90 7 -
Gives Character
to your Writing
0 0 0 N 0 1 -Oil -OO 9 1 8 V M 3 X 8 A I * M 0 3
Business.Rollery,Etc.
PRE-BUDGET WEEK
A SLIGHT but progressive
weakening in Australian
share-prices went on during the
week. But the market still had
life in it where special interest
was attracted, or where fixed-
trust demands to fill their invest-
ment portfolio made sellers coy.
There were extensive sales of
Walton’s shares following the
announced tie-up with Sears,
Roebuck, and the ss. fully-paid
shares remained fairly steady at
near 17s. —up ss. on earlier
quotations. Farmer’s shares
weakened after the deal with
Way’s was announced.
Kandos Cement shares sold at
595. 3d. just before the scrip
became ex rights to the bonus-
issue. Afterwards quotes were
355., buyer, 385., seller. A 10
p.c. distribution is expected to be
maintained. Expansion of the
operating co.’s works at Geelong
would be financed from internal
resources, chairman A. L. Bell
told shareholders at the annual
meeting. Output would be in-
creased to 450,000 tons a year.
It might be possible to raise
N.S.W. output without much
further capital-expenditure. For
the first time in three years the
co. had increased cement prices
—ss. a ton in N.S.W. and 10s. a
ton in Victoria. There was still
a shortage of cement in Victoria.
The increase in the div. by
Australian Paper Manufacturers
(to 71 p.c.) was almost fully
anticipated by the sharemarket,
and the price of the ords. moved
up only slightly to 235., to
yield 6.6 p.c. Conditions in the
trade are still good.
Profits of John Mcllwraith
Industries, Melbourne, showed
a jump of over 26 p.c. for the
year, with an earning-rate of
281 p.c. on ord. capital. The
121 p.c. div. was well covered.
The co. is a large distributor of
plumbers’ supplies, lead pro-
ducts, etc. The 10s. shares are
selling at 235.
Mt. Morgan increased its div.
for the year from 2s. to 2s. 6d.
per 10s. stock-unit. Profits
covered the new distribution
nearly twice over.
Burns Philp rights slackened
to 275. General Industries rights
also had appeal at 10s. 6d.
Speaking in Melbourne during
the week, Mr. Staniforth Ricket-
son said a period of financial
indigestion might develop in the
new-issues market during the
next few months. Demands for
capital continued high, but finan-
cial stringency was increasing.
Australia’s gold and balances
abroad fell again on last avail-
able figures. In Canberra Mr.
Latham Withall, director of the
Associated Chamber of Manu-
factures, said Australia’s con-
tinuing adverse trade-balance
might soon seriously threaten
her internal prosperity. A
renewal of quarterly basic-wage
adjustments would aggravate the
position. In 1954-55 Australia’s
total adverse balance of pay-
ments was £2lB million.
Delivering the presidential
address to the economics section
of the congress of the Australian
and New Zealand Association
for the Advancement of Science
Dr. Coombs, governor of the
Commonwealth Bank, said there
were real limits, both internal
and external, to the rate of
development Australia should
undertake if it was to maintain
financial stability, though he
believed that recent rapid
development was soundly based.
Australia, however, needed addi-
tional resources for development.
These might be obtained by in-
creasing production through a
bigger population and higher
productivity, and from increased
savings. Overseas borrowing
was another possible source. “I
must confess,” Dr. Coombs said,
“that I feel there is some danger
to the Australian economy if we
cannot evolve ways of exercising
effective restraint on our healthy
but exuberant tendency to want
to do more than our resources
will permit.”
The Bank of N.S.W., com-
menting on the rapid expansion
of the economy producing a
potential demand for imports
which was a threat to the balance
of payments, said that industrial
unrest, after a long period of
comparative quiet, was threaten-
ing to add further handicaps to
a situation which was already
paradoxical enough. “Through it
all runs a nagging fear that the
perennial problem of Australian
costs will show signs of intensi-
fying when the economy, carry-
ing the burden of a large deficit
in its trading with the rest of
the world, cannot afford to
relax its efforts to improve pro-
ductivity and efficiency.”
Altogether, the past week has
been one of pertinent com-
mentary and interesting develop-
ment, especially with the Budget
due for delivery this evening.
Sears, Roebuck & Walton’s
Sears, Roebuck and Co., of
Chicago, U.S.A., having agreed
to buy a “substantial” share-
interest in Walton’s, Ltd., of Syd-
ney, there is considerable specu-
lation as to what extent Sears
methods will be employed in
“Mine’s a ‘ True-flight ’ — what's your racket ?”
Australia. Walton’s shareholders
will be advised of full details of
the agreement and asked to
approve them soon after Mr.
J. R. Walton returns from
America about the end of
August.
Walton’s shares were heavily
traded-in following the first
announcement, rising from 12s.
to over 17§. for the ss. fully-
paids.
Under the agreement the
name of the company will be
changed to Waltons-Sears, Ltd.,
and Sears, Roebuck and Co. will
have equal representation on its
board.
Whilst American merchan-
dising techniques have been
adopted in Australia, particularly
in the variety-store field, Wal-
ton’s will be the first retail estab-
lishment to become affiliated
with a United States retailing
company.
Walton’s state that Sears will
make available immediately its
operating and merchandising
techniques, as well as provide
on-the-spot assistance from
specialists in various fields within
the company.
In November, 1953, Walton’s,
Ltd. [which as Cash Orders
(Amalgamated), Ltd., dates back
to 1926], launched out in Mur-
doch’s old building in Sydney
with assistance from Sears —
advice on merchandising tech-
nique, buying policy, store-
layout, color-scheming, etc.
The Walton’s chain now oper-
ates 21 retail stores in Sydney
and suburbs, Newcastle and
Wollongong; in Queensland at
Brisbane, Ipswich and Too-
woomba ; and in Victoria in the
city of Melbourne and at Fitz-
roy and Footscray.
The company’s total volume
of business this year is expected
to exceed £l7 million.
Sears, Roebuck, which is one
of the six biggest businesses of
the world, and claims to be the
world’s largest distributor of
general merchandise, operates
more than 700 retail stores in
the U.S.A., seven retail stores in
Canada, 15 retail stores in
Mexico, Cuba, Brazil, Venezuela,
Colombia, Peru. It conducts 11
mail-order plants in the U.S.A.,
with 570 catalogue-offices, four
mail-order plants in Canada with
322 order-offices, and 64 heavy-
goods agencies.
Its sales, in the U.S.A. alone
exceed 3000 million dollars a
year, and 70 p.c. of turnover is
through retail stores.
It sells goods through mail-
order to almost every country
in the world where currency-
regulations permit it to do so.
Sears employees own 25.9 per
cent, of the co.’s issued shares.
Sears, Roebuck have close ties
with many of their manufactur-
ing suppliers. Sears’ buyer and
the manufacturer work out
quantities required, and the most
efficient methods of manufacture,
and arrive at a price. Both
benefit by co-operation. Sears
claim'that manufacturer makes
more profit, not less, and that
Sears buy for less money, not
more.
The Sears, Roebuck mail-order
catalogue is a national institu-
tion in the U.S.A. The latest
edition, of 1444 pages, offers
fashion-goods in great array,
and almost everything else from
furniture, drapery, cameras,
bed-wetting cures, patent medi-
cines, trusses, and revolvers to
geiger-counters and recondi-
tioned motor-car engines for
almost any automobile put on
the road since 1936. And “satis-
faction or money back” is the
guarantee."
Half of Sears suppliers have
been on the books for more than
10 years. If Sears can’t locate a
satisfactory supplier, they are
prepared to establish their own
manufacturing organisations.
Some Sears, Roebuck figures
and facts:
Total sales in 1945—1,000,000,000
dollars.
Total sales in 1953—3,000,000,000
dollars.
Largest seUer of tyres and bat-
teries in the U.S.A. and many other
commodities.
Largest seUer of motor-car insur-
ance.
Largest seller of farm-implements.
Issued capital, 24,210,454 dollars.
Shareholders’ equity, 869,158,100
dollars. Current assets more than
1,100,000,000 dollars. Net profit,
117,882,300 dollars after tax.
Walton’s consider that one of
the great advantages of the tie-
up with Sears will be the vigorous
pursuit in Australia of the mass-
merchandising methods of Sears,
Roebuck & Co.
Walton’s paid capital is now
£2,272,690. It has expanded
vastly since the war, and it has
paid an average div. of 15 p.c.
since 1947.


For Sale
PIANO-ACCORDION, in good
condition. Price £l2O. Write to
Armnoo Cibattoni, 108 a Pad-
dington St., Paddington, N.S.W.
4
4
4
•v>
&
4
4
4
® 9
S'*
*v»
%
*
su&yxr&y Itr®
o
AVIATION
sdf
SERVICE
fm
i
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
LA.C.
NOW OPEN
AN ISSUE AT PAR OF
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT TERM
Interest (per annum) Currency
4i% 12 months
4% . 8 i s s 9 months
3| %. i . 6 months
3J%. .... 3 months
LONG TERM
Interest (per annum) Currency
617<
0 10 8c 15 years
6%. .; .4to 9 years
5~%5) i g i i ■ i 3 years
5% ...... 2 years
Interest payable quarterly free of exchange
Assets exceed £36,000,000
Prospectus may be obtained from
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES,
All Branches of the
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LTD.,
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD., and
Industrial Acceptance Corporation
ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES VICTORIA QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA WESTERN AUSTRALIA TASMANIA
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne and Sydney
For public information. This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an
invitation to the public to subscribe for the Stock mentioned herein.
lAC-C
THE CANADIAN ECONOMY
■yuHAT goes on in Canada
’ * should interest Australians,
especially around Budget-time.
It is one of the most progressive
countries of the world, helped
undoubtedly by its proximity to
the U.S.A., but helped just as
much by its own people’s
industry and by its stable and
sensible Government. Aus-
tralia was paid a visit in April
by Mr. C. D. Howe, Ministef
for Trade and Commerce at
Ottawa.
Canada introduced its 1955-56
Budget much earlier this year ;
as in Britain, there were some
cuts in taxation.
Reductions in personal
income-tax averaging 10 per cent,
and cuts in company tax and the
taxes on motor tyres and tubes
were announced by the Canadian
Minister of Finance, Mr. Walter
Harris, in his first Budget speech
in the Canadian House of
Commons on April 5.
'Hie main points in the
Minister’s Budget - announce-
ments were:
Personal income-tax reduced by
average 10 p.c. effective July
1, with reductions of 12 to 13 p.c.
for 85 p.c. of taxpayers.
Special 15 p.c. excise tax on new
cars reduced to 10 p.c., effective
immediately.
jSpecial 10 p.c. excise tax on
tyres and tubes repealed immedi-
ately.
Corporation tax on large-com-
pany incomes reduced to 45 p.c-
from 47 p.c., effective January 1,
1955; small-company (under $20,000
income) tax unchanged. (There is
a 20 p.c. tax-rebate on dividend
incomes.)
Incentive tax-concessions for oil,
gas and mining industries, now
temporary, made permanent.
The Government forecast a
$l6O million Budget deficit in
1955-56.
Budget revenue forecast at
$4202 million; expenditure,
$4362 million.
The Government is to set up a
royal commission to survey
Canada’s economic prospects.
Earlier estimated 1954-55
Budget deficit of $l4B million
was revised to $194 million in
wiping-out the deficit on the Old
Age Security fund.
In his remarks on the interna-
tional situation, Mr. Harris said,
in part:
In helping countries to restore
stability in the post-war years, to
expand production and to increase
their international trade, no nation
has played a more constructive role
than the United States. As every
member of this House is aware, the
success that has already, been recorded
is due largely to generous and far-
sighted American policies.
In the past 12 months, however,
while there was no basic change in
American policies, there was a dis-
appointing lack of progress toward
actual reductions in trade-barriers,
and there were disconcerting signs of
a revival of Protectionist feeling in
response to the increase in competi-
tive conditions.
I should remind the House that the
United States Administration has
resisted proposals which, in our
opinion, would not advance the cause
of friendly and mutually advantageous
trade. This resistance we /welcome.
On the other hand, the resistance
has not been uniformly successful.
We all have our difficulties and it
is not always possible to achieve
ideal solutions.
But it must be recognised that
actions taken or even implied by the
Government of the United States
may weaken support for liberal com-
mercial policies and may impose upon
those of us who are firm supporters
of such policies a greater burden in
defending them in our own countries.
One country cannot attempt to get
the maximum benefit at the cost of
the minimum adjustments without
creating a desire in other countries
to achieve the same result. There
must be a reasonable give and take
in any durable trade relationships,
whether under the Gatt or under
any other system.
It is of the utmost importance for
the future of international economic
co-operation that the United States
should continue to give positive
direction and leadership in reducing
barriers to the free flow of world
trade, y
We in Canada will continue to play
our part in any further steps that
are taken to promote these objectives.
If we are to maintain our standard
of living and use our resources and
skills to best advantage, we must be
prepared to permit other nations to
do the same. Markets everywhere
are becoming more competitive, but
as an important exporting nation we
must continue to look very carefully
at all proposals involving Government
protection and aid....
The Minister expected an
increase in gross national produc-
tion in Canada in 1955 to about
$25 thousand million, a five or
six per cent, increase over 1954,
and, of the economic outlook,
said, in part:
The long-term economic outlook
for Canada is extremely bright. It
has changed tremendously in the past
25 or 30 years, and it will continue
to change. The world we live in has
changed, too, and that process will
go on,
None of us has any doubts as to
our great future, or of our capacity
greatly to expand our population and
our standards of living.
The Government intends... .to
appoint a royal commission with
instructions to look ahead and
examine carefully our future
economic prospects. The smt of
study we have in mind would include
probable developments both in our
productive capacities and in our
external markets. It would include
an examination of our population-
growth in both its regional and age-
distribution aspects. It would
assemble information and speculate
thoughtfully about the magnitude and
nature of our future requirements
for the great variety of physical
amenities which contribute to a
steadily-rising level of well-being.
In 1954, Canada’s exports and
imports were lower in volume
and value than in 1953. This is
the first year since World War
II that figures were lower than
in the preceding year. Signifi-
cantly for countries outside
Canada, the decline for 1954 was
more pronounced in imports than
in exports; in other words,
Canada bought less from the
world than usual, and this
affected trade figures for
countries like Britain and Aus-
tralia. Imports last year were
valued at $4093 million, down
6.6 p.c. from the all-time “high”
reached in 1953. Exports were
5.4 p.c. lower at $3946 million.
Canada had an adverse
balance of trade of $146 million
for 1954, compared with $2lO
million in the preceding year.
Import prices remained fairly
stable, but prices for exports
dropped by 3 p.c., partly
influenced by the fall in wheat.
Overall, net decline in exports
last year can be largely attrib-
uted to lower exports of two
commodities, wheat and motor-
vehicles. These commodities are
primarily shipped to overseas
markets, and their decline was
partly offset by larger shipments
of industrial materials to in-
creasingly prosperous European
and other overseas markets.
Imports of coal and petroleum
products from the United States
continued to decline. Coal is
being increasingly displaced by
petroleum-fuels in Canada, and
U.S. crude petroleum by the pro-
duction of Western Canadian
wells.
One of the world’s chief trad-
ing nations in spite of a rela-
tively small population, Canada
ranked fourth in 1954 in the
value of exports, imports and
total trade, the Federal Republic
of Germany regaining Ger-
many’s pre-war position of
third place. While complete data
are not yet available, it appears
that Canada ranked second in
per capita trade during the year,
with New Zealand regaining
first place.
In 1954, the Canadian auto-
mobile industry had a setback.
Does this signify anything for
Australia in the near future?
New motor-vehicle sales fell 17
p.c. in number and 15 p.c. in
retail value from the 1953 peak.
At the same time financing of
sales of new and used cars fell
16 p.c. in number and value. But
in May this year the automobile
industry was producing record
quantities of new vehicles.
In the 1954 period profits of
all Canadian companies, before
taxation, fell by 6 p.c. com-
pared with the previous year.
Average hourly and weekly
earnings of wage-earners in
manufacturing reached new
peaks of 143.5 cents and $59
respectively in the week ending
March 1 last. The average work-
week was 41.2 hours.


Full I time Service
gsd
lit
Incorporated in Victoria in 1871
lOARD OP DIRECTORS:
TR.22.38
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia's oldest Trustee
Company, has, since its inception in 1878, given the whole of its time te
the provision of prompt, efficient and economical service as Executor,
Trustee, Administrator or Agent
* It cannot die or leave the country. Its services go on forever.
* It is specially constituted under Act of Parliament.
* It offers ample security for the performance of trusts.
* Its charges are fixed and moderate.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £ 971,002.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman): G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syma; A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader: Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan ©. Potter.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
'X'HOSE on the register of the very solid
C.B.S. have twice benefited in the
last couple of years. To strengthen its
strong and prominent position further
in the banking field, the co. issued
£1,260,987 of fresh capital at par in April,
1954, lifting paid capital to £6,000,000,
the last £74,400 of which came in during
the year to June 30 last, when the div.
was lifted from 8 p.c. to 8£ p.c. The
final was at the rate of 9 p.c. p.a., best
for the last 25 years, and, subject to
something very unexpected happening,
the 9 p.c. is likely to be maintained.
Last term’s conservatively stated profit
(£627,296, up £98,519) was 10.4 p.c. on
capital as it now stands. So, because of
the strong security offered for both capital
and income, the market prices the £25
shares paid to £l2 10s. each —the other
£l2 10s. is virtually a nominal liability
callable only if needed in the event of
liquidation— at £2O 18s. as against
£2O Bs. a year ago. On a 9 p.c. div. basis
the return at £2O 18s. is 5.3 p.c., which is
as high as looked for from this class of
security at the moment. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is £23 ss. Bd.
Last term two main forces, pulling in
opposite directions, were at work in the
banking field. One was the high level
of internal industrial activity, which
strengthened the demand for advances,
and the other was an adverse balance in
our overseas trade account —the value
of imports increased by nearly 24 p.c.
while the value of exports ’decreased by
over 6 p.c. This resulted in a loss of
both London funds and bank liquidity,
and a progressive tightening of bank
credit. But the tightening was qualitative
rather than quantitative. And so far
as earnings were concerned what the
banks missed one way they more than
picked up in another.
Except in 1952, the C.B,S.’s net earn-
ings have advanced by irregular steps for
each of the last dozen years:
Written
June, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£> £, £,£,
1951.. 451,699 8 p.c. = 379,121 25,000 4,808,660
1952.. 443,843 8 „ „ 379,121 25,000 4,848,382
1953.. 470,625 8 „ „ 379,121 25,000 4,914,886
Surplus sale shares, £43,308 .. 4,958,189
1954.. 528,777 8 p.c. = 379,121 25,000 5,082,845
1955.. 627,296 8J „ „ 508,314 25,000 6,176,827
The £627,296 of profit claimed last term
was written after allowing unspecified
amounts for taxation, bad and doubtful
debts and other contingencies, and the
provisions aren’t likely to have been
skimped. It was 10.4 p.c. on capital as
against 11.1, 9.9 and 9.3 p.c. back to 1952.
The effects of trade and other develop-
ments upon the banking structure are
reflected in the following comparison of
the co.’s balance-sheet figures:
1953. 1954. 1956.
Paid capital £4,739,013 £5,925,600 £6,000,000
Reserves .. 4,914,886 5,082,845 5,176,827
Notes .. 13,500 13,497 13,491
Deposits* .. 190,506,822 202,950,453 199,609,165
Due other
banks .. 1,678,561 1,130,736 1,149,964
Final div... 189,560 189,660 270,000
£202,042,342 £215,292,691 £212,219,447
Liquids .. 84,502,401 83,940,901 70,644,110
Special a/c 41,400,000 45,300,000 34,400,000
Advances .. 73,154,201 82,436,951 102,925,556
Premises,
etc. .. 1,399,666 1,668,344 1,828,298
Other assets 1,586,084 1,946,495 2,421,483
£202,042,342 £215,292,691 £212,219,447
* Includes provision for contingencies.
To meet the year’s net growth of
£20,488,605 m advances and a shrinkage
of £3,341,288 in deposits, liquids were
drawn upon for £13,296,791 and the
central bank released £10,900,000 of the
amount the co. had been obliged to
deposit on special account at the previous
balance. The loss of liquidity is thus
obvious. The ratio of the total of cash,
Treasury bills and Government securities
to deposits fell from 31.8 p.c. to 25.5 p.c.
over the 12 months. The lower percentage
is approximately the safety level the
central bank has prescribed for mainten-
ance of economic stability so far as bank-
ing policy is concerned.
There seems little prospect of much, if
any, lift in our overseas earnings for the
current year, and, with full to over-full
employment, and labor shortages develop-
ing, domestic output is unlikely to in-
crease sufficiently to offset the volume of
goods shut out by import-restrictions.
Also this paradoxical position is being
aggravated by marginal wage-increases
and strikes. Among other things, it all
calls for damping down consumption
expenditure to relieve the pressure on
domestic resources and the balance of
payments, and for encouragement of
saving for capital investment.
Since it has never been considered good
banking for the trading banks to provide
risk capital, the credit squeeze, and there-
fore overdraft facilities, might yet tighten
before they get easier.
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd.
T ATEST accounts of this big car-
_ manufacturing, -assembly, -distribut-
ing and motor-body-building organisa-
tion highlight the remarkable success
achieved in production of its all-Aus-
tralian-made motor-vehicle, the Holden,
which first came off the production-
lines in 1948 and is now best-seller
on the Australian market. Last year it
accounted for 27.7 p.c. of all new
passenger-car and 30.4 p.c. of all new
utility-vehicle registrations.
Over the last five years net earnings
of the entire undertaking have increased
more than twentyfold:
G.M.-H. and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends - ■>
Pref.
Dee. Profit. 6 p.c. ' Ord. v Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1949.. 477,159 33,696 Nil 2,878,845
Net loss realisation assets, £88,776 .. 2,340,069
Net equity subsid. profit, £21,890 .. 2,361,459
1950.2,608,364 33,696 50 p.c. r= 875,000 4,056,127
Profit sale assets, £28,989 .. .. 4,085,116
Net equity subsid. profit, £10,012.. 4,095,128
1951.8,348,023 83,696 30 p.e. = 525,000 6,884,455
Profit sale assets, £53,707 .. .. 6,988,162
Net equity subsid. profit, £9BBO .. 6,947,542
1952. 8,947,548 83,696 Nil 10,861,394
Profit sale assets, £87,574 .. ..10,858,968
Tax provision, £922,917 .. ..11,821,885
1953. 7.249,751 33,696 100p.c.=1,750,000 17,287,940
Profit sale assets, £23,678 .. .. 17,311,618
1954.9,899,604 33,696 260p.c.=4,550,000 22,627,526
Last term’s £9,899,604 (up £2,649,853) of
profit was written after allowing
£1,281,549 (up £297,694) for depreciation,
etc., and handing the Government
£7,110,000 (up £2,445,000) in duties and
taxes of one kind and another. In rela-
tion to share-capital a10ne—£2,311,600,
of which £561,600 is in 6 p.c. prefs.,
owned by the Australian public, and the
balance ords., held by the big American
parent co., General Motors Corp.—the
£9,899,604 covered the pref. require-
ments and 563.7 p.c. on ord. capital, and
the div. was hoisted from 100 p.c. to 260
p.c. It was these figures, which give a
distorted view of the true position, that
aroused criticism in some quarters.
Distorted because the £22,627,526 of
reserves, or ploughed-back profits, as well
as the formal-capital, belong to share-
holders, who thus had £24,939,126
invested in the business at December 31
last. On these funds the year’s profit was
39.7 p.c., and the dividend 18.2 p.c.
Taking dividends in relation to ord.
capital alone, the average rate over the
last decade was 44 p.c. For six
out of the ten years no ord. div. was paid,
thus leaving all available profit in the
business to help finance the big pro-
gramme of capital expenditure, which ran
into about £20,000,000.
One obvious way of bringing the
picture into easier perspective would be
to capitalise a substantial portion of the
reserves. But the board says the 15 p.c.
tax involved would be too heavy a penalty
to pay for such a formality, which would
produce no tangible benefit, and would
actually reduce funds needed for further
expansion of the business.
Most of the £20,000,000 just referred
to went into new plant, equipment,
materials and other facilities for produc-
tion of the Holden, and the rest mainly
into rounding-off and balancing non-
vehicle production and distribution facili-
ties. These fall mostly under three main
headings, namely, automotive parts and
accessories, power and industrial equip-
ment and commercial and domestic
refrigeration. The whole Australian
economy has benefited by the co.’s
development, particularly the Govern-
ment, suppliers of an extensive range
of raw materials, and the co.’s own
workers and a lot of others besides.
Broadly speaking, from the worker’s
point of view there is no greater guaran-
tee of secure employment and a fat pay-
packet than sound industrial prosperity.
Unit sales in the vehicles division have
stepped along in this way:
Cars and Trucks—^
1951. 1952, 1953. 1954.
Holden 26,177 31,945 44,176 54,796
Vauxhall/Bedford .. 14,915 8,870 15,692
U.S. and Canadian .. 6,418 5,265 5,554 8,666
Total .. .. 45,505 47,345 68,699 74,064
During the 10 months to August, 1954,
the list-price of the Holden was reduced
by £7O, making total reduction to the
buyer, including sales tax, £B4. Another
encouraging feature was export of 321
Holdens to New Zealand. From the
national viewpoint, development and
widening of this export trade might
finally offset the dollars involved in pay-
ment of the ord. div. Meanwhile, local
production has lightened our import bill
for motor-vehicles.
The year’s turnover, all sections of
the business combined, increased by
£12,190,882, or 21.1 p.c.:— ’
Vehicle. Non-vehicle. Total.
1960 .. £30,118,162 £6,000,590 £85,118,752
1951 .. 35,297,750 7,183,995 42,481,746
1952 .. 41,688,695 8.036,062 49,619,657
1953 .. 50,818,641 6.856,477 57,670:118
1954 .. 60,649,454 9,211,546 69,861,000
Vehicle sales (up £9,835,813) accounted
for nearly 87 p.c. of the 1954 total. And
the order-book for the Holden is a long
way ahead of production.
The net growth in total assets
amounted to £8,503,326, of which out-
siders (creditors, etc.) contributed only
£1,745,651, and surplus earnings, etc., the
balance:
Consolidated Figures.
Paid capital— 1961. 1953. 1964.
Pref. .. £661.600 £661,600 £561,600
Ord. .. 1,750,000 1,760,000 1.750,000
Reserves .. 6,884,455 17,287,940 22,627,526
Creditors, etc. 7,190,610 6,017,406 7,763,057
Tax reserve, etc. 5,183,959 6,783,887 8,201,976
Final div. .. 541,848 16,848 16,848
Total .. £22,062,472 £82,417,681 £40,921,007
Freeholds, etc. 1,658,821 8,709,788 4,008,647
Plant .. .. 2,692,841 6,626,888 7,244,186
Stocks .. 14,046,149 18,308,838 16,228,835
Debtors .. 1,641,981 1,484,641 2,019,464
Cash, etc. .. 2,023,180 7,293,031 11,425,426
Total .. £22,062,472 £32,417,681 £40,921,007
Freeholds, etc., increased by £298,859,
plant by £617,752, stocks by £2,919,497,
book-debts by £534,825, and cash, etc.,
by £4,132,395.
The co. already has the money in hand
to finance its new £7l-million expansion
programme, which is designed to step-up
production of Holdens to 72,000 units per
annum, and is part of a long-term plan to
lift overall annual output to 100,000
vehicles, at an estimated total capital cost
of about £2l million.
Swans, Ltd. (Sydney)
eHAREHOLDERS in this old-estab-
lished builders’-liardware business,
which supplies the trade with practically
everything except timber, bricks and
roofing-tiles, have fared well over the last
decade, and the outlook favors a steady
strengthening of their position.
Since the close of accounts in 1947
they have put up £275,288 of fresh capi-
tal, the last £150,655 of which was
gathered at par in December, 1954.
Earlier issues brought with them £37,599
of share-premiums, but the effect of this
upon the dividend in shareholders’ hands
was more than offset by the distribution
of £101,192 of bonus-scrip in 1951. Paid
capital now stands at £477,467, of which
£25,000 carries a fixed cumulative 5 p.c.,
and reserves at £266,298.
The ord. div., which had climbed from
6 p.c. in 1935 to 8 p.c. three years later
and remained steady until 1945, rose to
12} p.c. in 1946, to 15 p.c. for the next
five years, and then dropped to 12} p.c.
following the bonus share-issue and has
remained steady since—the 12} p.c. is
equal to 18.7 p.c. on capital as it stood
before the gift.
Last term extensions were made to the
Parramatta branch and to the recently-
acquired bulk-store at Mascot. Activity
in both home and commercial building
gathered momentum, and so did the co.’s
turnover. So, although competition
sharpened, the co. was able to show
£7683 more profit, after allowing
unstated amounts for depreciation and
taxation, etc.:
f Dividends Re-
May, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1949 .. 34,524 6 16 18,223 121,508
Premium on shares, £6266 .. 127,774
1950 . . 44,602 6 15 23,829 148,547
Revaluation assets, £66,071 .. 214,618
Reserves capitalised, £101,192.. 113,426
1951 . . 63,787 6 16 86,146 141,067
1952 .. 70,658 6 12J 89,227 172,498
1953 . . 68,328 6 12 j 89,226 201,600
1954 . . 72,442 6 121 39,227 234,815
1955 . . 80,125 6 121 48,642 266,298
After paying the pref. div. enough of
last term’s profit remained to show 20.2
p.c. on average ord. capital as against
23.5, 22.1, 22.9, 20.4 and 28.9 p.c. back
to 1950. It was a satisfactory perform-
ance considering that a lot of money was
represented by premises and stock in the
new Wollongong branch, which didn’t
begin trading until June 1, the day after
the books closed.
The net addition to premises and plant
was £69,576, to stocks £132,657 and to
book-debts £10,058 —these increases were
also due in part to bigger trading:
Paid capital— 1958. 1954. 1955.
Pref £25,000 £25.000 £25.000
Ord 301,812 801,812 452,467
Reserves . . .. 201,600 234,815 266,298
Creditors .. 225,405 264,277 275,804
Tax provision .. 73,817 51,817 66,180
Pinal divs. .. 28,388 28,886 82,802
£851,020 £891,107 £1,108,501
Freeholds, plant,
etc 193,805 217,617 28T.193
Stocks .. . . 866,811 884,019 616,676
Debtors . . . . 252,664 285,585 296,648
Cash and invest-
ments .. .. 48,240 8,886 8,989
£851,020 £891,107 £1,108,601
To meet the year’s outlay shareholders
put up an extra £150,655, and only
£21,527 was added to the amount coming
to sundry creditors. The net amount of
working capital (£456,572) increased by
£112,562.
The tempo of home-construction is not
increasing at the same rate as a year ago,
due mainly to the tightening of credit
facilities. But the slack in this respect has
been more than taken up by activity in
commercial building. The value of all
new buildings under construction in N. S.
Wales at March 31 last was 16 p.c.
greater than a year earlier, and popula-
tion of the State continues to grow at
the rate of nearly 2 p.c. p.a.
Prepared to wait for further benefits,
the market prices the f.-p. £1 ords. at 465.
to return 5.4 p.c. on a 12| p.c, div.
basis. Net tangible cover is 31s. 9d. The


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROZALIA ALMADY of Melbourne
TAKE NOTICE that ZOLTAN ALMADY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1849
of 1955 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and is asking the exercise
of the Court’s discretion in his favour
under S. 19 (2) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 28th day of October
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from T. L. BLATOH-
FORD, Solicitor, 81 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK NEAT late of 9 Rod-
borough Avenue Crows Nest.—TAKE
NOTICE that NEVILLE RICHARD
O’BRIEN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3253 of 1953 against his wife on
the ground of her adultery with you at
No. 9 Rodborough Avenue Crows'Nest on
or about the 23rd day of July 1953 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
Bth October 1955 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. COLREAVY & O’LEARY,
Solicitors, 26 Bridge Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PERCY CHARLES FREEMAN late
of 197 John Street Cabramatta. —TAKE
NOTICE that EILEEN MILLIOENT
FREEMAN has filed Petition for Divorce
No. 2605 of 1955 on the ground that
you have during three years and upwards
been a habitual drunkard and habitually
left her without the means of support
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 21st day of October 1955 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from NICHOLAS RUZA, Solicitor, of
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN. Registrar.
36in.
*
m
■ :
■ r . J
'
: :
■
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
L
tv.
'AX
/!
his future is
ASSURED!
It costs so little to assure your
child's life, and he can continue
the policy
himself
later on.
Protection
from
Babyhood to Retirement.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
II
tHE METROPOLITAN BUILDING.
Cnr. Hunter and Bligh Sts.. Sydney
By Appointment
to H. M. King
frederlk IX
By Appointment
to the late
King George VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment
to H- M. the
Queen of the
Netherlands
r . V
iE|p=££
£S
ait* °topt**lf2
Cherry
Heering
%&>ce 1818 Denmark'*
liqueur delight,
for your after
dinner enjoyment
Q#f*
auM-^
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —SWIFT & HORN DALE PTY.LTD.
LATEC INVESTMENTS
LTD.
(FINANCE COMPANY)
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 of the State of New South Wales.)
Registered Office: Stead’s Chambers, 67-71 Hunter St., Newcastle West, N.S.W.
«%
ISSUE AT PAR
OF. £250,000
o
/
©
8% REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
CURRENCY 5 YEARS
INTEREST PAYABLE HALF-YEARLY
TRUSTEE FOR THE NOTE HOLDERS:—Bankers & Traders
Insurance Co. Limited.
ISSUE NOW OPEN |
Full Prospectus and Application Forms may be obtained from
THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LTD. (All Branches)
Members of Recognised Stock Exchanges.
Parker & Stewart W. W. Shedden & Son
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange), (Members of the Newcastle Stock Exchange),
56 Hunter Street, 316 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. NEWCASTLE WEST, N.S.W.
(Brokers to the Issue)
(The Statutory Requirements have not been fully complied with in this abridged Prospectus.)
well-protected prefs. seldom
appear on.’Change.
Engineering Supply Co.
(Brisbane)
A LWAYS a good profit-earner
and dividend-payer, the co.,
with headquarters at Brisbane
and branches at Rockhampton
and Townsville, does an exten-
sive trade throughout Queens-
land in machinery, engineering
supplies, motor accessories, trac-
tors and farm implements, etc.
It has never failed to pay a div.
since the maiden distribution of
6 p.c. in 1905. Over the next 25
years the rate rose as high as
15 p.c., but fell to 2 p.c. in 1933,
climbed to 8 p.c. in 1939,
remained steady until 1947, fol-
lowed by two lots of 10 p.c.,
three of 12| p.c., two of 15 p.c.
and then p.c. last term.
The rapid post-war growth of
turnover, due to expanding
industrial and other activities,
etc., has been financed sub-
stantially out of ploughed-back
profits. Reserves were thus
pushed up from £46,440 in 1939
to £441,888 at the close of last
accounts. Over the same period
paid capital has remained un-
changed at £275,000. The de-
clared aim .has been to stabilise
turnover at a “reasonable level
which could be maintained
rather than strive for ever-
increasing sales.” All this,
coupled with the continued
growth of primary and
secondary industries in Queens-
land, adds to the attractiveness
of the scrip as an investment.
Last term demand and sales
strengthened, but competition,
and distribution and other costs,
narrowed margins. Still, after
allowing £60,000 (up £2060) for
taxation and £6504 (up £588) for
depreciation, the board was able
to show £B3lB more profit at
£109,298:
Net Re-
June, Profit. t Dividends serves.
£ & &
1950.. 67,289 12* p.c. =84,375 1 1Q » nnn
To staff funds, £3918 .. j ly ' ,uuu
1951.. 79,875 12* p.c. =34,375 ( OQ „ ™
To staff funds, £5OOO .. )
Unexp’d reduction, £l5OO 236,000
1952.. 74,375 12* p.c. =84,376 7 nnn
To staff funds, £30,000 .. j u
tTnexp’d reduction, £15,730 230,270
1953.. 56,250 15 p.c. =41,250 245,270
1954.. 980 15 „ „ 41,250 306,000
Contingency res. disclosed,
£75,715 .. .. 880,715
1956.. 298 17* p.c. =48,125 441,888
The record £109,298 was 39.7
p.c. on capital as against 36.7,
20.5, 27, 29 and 24.5 p.c. back
to 1950. So the addition of a
2\ p.c. bonus to the 15 p.c. div.,
making 17£ p.c. for the year, was
a comfortable matter, leaving
£61,173 (56 p.c.) of the year’s
profit to put on the shelf. Re-
serves.also benefited by disclosure
of £75,715 earmarked for con-
tingencies and hitherto lumped
with provision for taxation in
the published accounts. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s
profit was a healthy 15.2 p.c.
Finances are comfortable, and
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£629,649) increased by £132,184,
due partly to the disclosure of
inner reserves already referred
to:
1963. 1954. 1955.
£ £ £
Paid capital 275,000 276,000 276,000
Reserves .. 246,270 306,000 441,888
Overdraft .. 581 61,031
Creditors .. 116,754 145,037 120,458
Tax prov’n* 118,439 131,016 60,000
Staff funds .. 44,719 43,416 43,253
Final divs. .. 20,625 20,625 27,600
820,807 920,675 1,019,130
Freeholds .. 59,528 59,528 65,508
Furniture and
vehicles .. 17,838 23,007 21,731
Stocks .. 391,677 412,020 556,884
Debtors .. 234,809 315,790 315,552
Cash, bonds,
etc. .. 116,956 110,330 59,455
820,807 920,675 1,019,130
* Includes provision for contingencies up
to 1954.
The board makes no comment
on the sharp increase of £144,864
in stocks, which appear at or
under cost; but the business is
expanding, and another story is
to be added to the Rockhampton
branch. To finance the addition
to stocks and clip £24,579 off the
amount coming to sundry credi-
tors, the co. went to its bankers
for an extra £50,450 and drew
upon cash, etc. (down £50,875),
and the year’s surplus earnings
for the balance.
At 545. 6d. (48s. a year ago)
the f.-p. £1 shares return a satis-
factory 6.4 p.c. on a p.c.
distribution. Net tangible cover
is 525. Id.
Central Radio Mines, N.L.
Just off the stocks in Adelaide,
with the blessing of Austral
Mining and Uranium Oxide cos.,
this Central co. has a nominal
capital of £250,000 in ss. shares,
of which 800,000 are to be jiut
out. Those on the Austral and
Uranium cos.’ registers have
priority of application as to
300,000 shares in each case,
100,000 are available for sub-
scription by the general public
and 1000 have been taken by
subscribers to the memorandum,
all payable in full on applica-
tion. A further 99,000 shares
are reserved for issue to the
vendors, fully paid, as part con-
sideration for leases, etc., leav-
ing 200,000 shares in pickle.
There is no promoter’s con-
sideration in cash or shares.
The minimum subscription on
which the board will proceed to
allotment is 330,000 shares
(£82,500), which have been
jointly underwritten by Austral
Mining and Uranium Oxide at
2\d. each. The £82,500 is to be
used not more than £30,000 for
reimbursement of actual expen-
diture on acquisition of options,
plant, etc., £8520 preliminary
exes., including brokerage, etc.,
and £26,700 to various original
vendors, less value of gold won
during option periods if the
options are exercised, leaving a
minimum of £17,280 for working
capital.
The options, mostly for 12
months, cover a group of 11 gold
leases in Westralia —eight in the
Manxman-Bullfinch area, two at
Morley’s Find and one near
Leonora, which was acquired
after the prospectus was issued.
Best known of the lot is the
Radio group (Bullfinch), where
production to November, 1954,
totalled 28,000 tons for 49,0000 z.
fine gold. Here the lode is show-
ing fine gold at the bottom level,
and, according to a Government
report, “should persist to some
depth.” It is proposed to lift
capacity of the present 300-ton-
a-month central treatment-plant
to 1000-tons-a-month if and
when development warrants.
Two other promising prospects
are the Mabel Gertrude, at
Morley’s Find, North Cool-
gardie field, where the last
parcel of 128 tons put through
the Government battery at
Menzies yielded 4530 z. gold, and
the recently-acquired Beau Don,
near Leonora, where the gold
occurs in kidneys, and where the
Wright brothers last month
crushed less than one ton for
£17,150-worth of gold. These
two finds only recently came
into prominence, and the rich
crushings provide absolutely no
indication of what lies ahead.
No ore reserves exist in the
sense of being blocked on four
sides in any of the leases, the
value of which has yet to be
proved by prospecting and
development work. All that can
be said definitely at the moment
is that ore exposed provides
promising indications, with
good prospects of a reasonable
tonnage being developed in the
Radio.
On the board are G. C.
Campbell, A. R. Ferguson add
E. Broughton Jensen.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The lunch-hour crowds in Hyde Park
probably won’t know what to do with
themselves this week, as the past seven
days have provided them witfi so much
entertainment from the schoolchildren
taking part in Education Week. Students
of Sydney Boys’ High School performed
“Henry V” on the steps of the War
Memorial on two occasions, giving great
vigor to the scene of the Battle of Agin-
court; students from Fort Street Primary
School gave a demonstration-lesson in
physical-training; home-science school-
girls danced, and in other parts of the
city gave mannequin-parades of clothes
they had made themselves, and cooking
demonstrations. Choirs sang in David
Jones’ restaurant each afternoon, and a
schoolboys’ brass-band marched through
town. It was a busy week, and the one-
million people who visited the schools
saw the wonderfully-improved methods
of teaching that recent years have
brought, which add up to the reason why
one so seldom sees anyone these days
“creeping like a snail unwillingly to
school,”
☆ ☆ ☆
Dame Mary Gilmore’s birthday-party
was a highlight of the week for many
people. About 230 went along to the
conference-room of the Rural Bank
where it was held, the eldest being Mrs.
Henrietta Greville, aged 93, with Mr.
Billy Miller (88), from the Northern
Territory, runner-up. 1 The youngest was
Bill Gilmore, from Scots’ College, Dame
Mary’s grandson and only descendant.
Gavin Casey, president of the Australian
Fellowship of Writers, was M.C.; a beauti-
ful account of Dame Mary’s life with
selections from her poems was beautifully
read by Leonard Theile ; Dr. H. V. Evatt
proposed the toast of Dame Mary, who
responded in her strong, youthful voice.
A cake with nine roses was presented by
the Society of Women Writers, the
Bushwhackers’ Band gave “Click Go the
Shears,” and by special request a song
about Ben Hall (who was no worse than
Robin Hood, said Dame Mary). William
Dobell, who is to paint a portrait of the
guest-of-honor, was present; also Mrs.
Clem Chapman, who has been commis-
sioned by the Australasian Book Society
to sculpt a head of Dame Mary.
☆ ☆ *
There was an informal air about the
spring fashion-show and cocktail-party
held by the Black and White Ball com-
mittee at the Royal Blind Society’s Rooms
on Thursday, where the mannequins
passed from the stage, unannounced, to
walk among the guests. As the party
was well attended (“What a great suc-
cess, so beautifully crowded!” was a
popular comment), there was a certain
craning of necks necessary to get a
glimpse of the dresses by Jacqueline and
the hats by Mim Hunter-Kerr. Googie
Withers, who was accompanied by John
McCallum, opened the show with a lively
speech and looked most charming in a
black sheath-dress with a wide, black,
shady hat. Mrs. R. H. Allen, wearing a
slim cocktail-dress of gunmetal shan-
tung, welcomed the guests.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sydney author Nuri Mass, who less
than 12 months ago knew nothing of the
art of printing, has just published her
latest book, Randy Blair, every little bit
of which was hand-set by herself in what
time could be spared from her household
duties (she is in private life Mrs. Sydney
Horwitz and the mother of two children,
aged five and three).
“I could not have done it without the
help of my mother,” she says. “But for
14 years it has been-my dream to estab-
lish a press which would print the work
of talented writers who cannot find a
publisher because of the limited appeal
of their work.” This dream took form
when Miss Mass was studying the novels
of Virginia Woolf for her M.A. thesis,
and she was struck by the fact that the
works of this great writer were withheld
from the public for so long for lack of
a publisher.
“The Writers’ Press,” which Miss Mass
established last October, is the fulfil-
ment of her dream, and through it she
hopes to bring to public notice many
Australian writers who might otherwise
become discouraged through the lack of
ability to have their work printed. “Randy
Blair is a light novel,” she says. “I have
published it to show what the Writers
Press can do, and it is through the
Writers’ Press that I hope some ‘
thing for Australian literature.”
☆ i* *
Air-Vice-Marshal A. L. Walters and
Mrs. Walters gave a buffet-luncheon at
Briarcliffe, Lapstone Hill, on Sunday as
a farewell-party to their only daughter,
Robin, who leaves this week on the
Stratheden to marry Dr. Carl Helden, or
Gothenburg, Sweden, in October. Robin
will travel alone, and her only close
family-friend at the wedding will be her
godfather, Air-Vice-Marshal Hancock,
who will fly from London to Sweden for
the ceremony. At the party Robin wore
a strawberry-pink, light-wool dress with
a rose-petal cap, and she cut a two-tiered
cake decorated with a ship and tiny
anchors. Her godmother, Mrs. A.
Kinna, was present with Dr. Kinna. Sir
Frank Berryman (who said he had
known Robin since she was too small to
know him) spoke for all present the
words of farewell and bon voyage.
☆ ☆ *
Noticed at the opening of Douglas
Pratt’s one-show at the Grosvenor
Galleries the Consul - General for
Norway, Mr. S. Klingenberg, and Mrs.
Klingenberg ; Mrs. R. J. Heffron, wife
of the deputy-Premier; Lady Braddon;
Lady Plowman; Mr. and Mrs. Erik
Langker. The show was opened by the
High Commissioner for India, General
K. M. Cariappa, and will remain open
until August 26.
Ann Fairlie-Cuninghame, who is the
second daughter of the late Sir Hussey
Fairlie-Cuninghame, 14th Baronet of
Robertland, Ayrshire, Scotland, and of
Mona, Lady Fairlie-Cuninghame, of
Darling Point, will be married to Mr.
William Vout, elder son of Mr. and Mrs.
B. Vout, of Hobart, at St. Mark’s Church,
Darling Point, on August 27. Ann will
be attended by her sister Patricia and
the reception will be held at the Queen’s
Club. Photo by Norton-Trevaire.
The Bulletin’s “Society” correspon-
dent “8.C.A.,” who claimed recently that
the wives of the Lord Mayors of Lon-
don, York, Dublin and Belfast were alone
entitled to be called “Lady Mayoress”
and that the wives of Australian Lord
Mayors did not have this privilege, seems
to be refuted by the letter which hangs
framed in the rooms of the Lord Mayor
of Sydney. From the College of Heralds,
and dated 1904, it grants the privilege to
the Lord Mayors of Sydney and Mel-
bourne to be referred to as “The Right
Honorable,” and to be addressed as “Our
Right Trusty and Well-beloved.” It adds
“These concessions.... do not extend to
any Lady Mayoress.” Obviously, had the
wife of the Lord Mayor not been entitled
to be referred to as “Lady Mayoress” the
College of Heralds would not have used
the title.
* * *
Guest-speaker at Friday’s luncheon of
the Society of Women Writers will be
Dame Sybil Thorndike, and Sir Lewis
Casson will also be a guest-of-honor.
The luncheon will be held in the
reception-room of the Royal Empire
Society, and the society invites its mem-
bers to bring as many guests as they wish
(though they mustn’t forget to make reser-
vations with honorary-secretary Kitty
Archer-Burton).
MELBOURNE
What impressed the 200 guests invited
to Chevron for the farewell-party given
by Winifred Atwell (who wore a grey silk
frock printed in a black-and-white
design) and her husband, Lou Levisohn,
was that it was given at the close
of Winnie’s season, not at its opening.
It was to say “Thank-you” to all who
had helped in making the artist’s season
one of the most successful in the Tivoli’s
history. Guests are treasuring their
farewell gift of a silver cigarette-box
decorated with a miniature grand-piano.
Among guests were Mrs. Stanley
Korman, attractive in a sheath-frock of
white guipure-lace; Mrs. John Carrodus,
in black Swiss-satin; Mrs. Frank
Christie, her choice a white-spotted grey
tie-silk frock; Mrs. Geoff Brookes, who
added a pale-blue satin coat to her black
frock; and Mrs. Max Shaw, who wore
a smart black ensemble.
Mrs. Angus Jones, of Toorak, has left
with her husband (he is managing-direc-
tor of Vacuum Oil) for the U.S., where
they will visit their daughter, Mrs. E. M.
Barnum, and see for the first time their
two grandchildren. A member of the
Australian-American Association, and a
committee-member of the Richmond
Kindergarten, Mrs. Jones devotes her
spare time to pottery-making and china-
painting. The travellers will be away
two months . Picture by Dickenson-
Monteath.
Plans to aid the Clyde War Memorial
building-fund were launched at a cocktail-
party given by the committee (of which
Lady Murdoch is president) at Pateley,
the lovely old colonial South Yarra
home of Dr. and Mrs. John Shaw. A
dinner-dance will be held on September
21 at the Palais de Danse, St. Kilda, and
parents and the “old girls” committee are
combining to make it a success. Mrs.
Trevor Clarke, of Dunkeld, has already
had a bridge-party to help defray
expenses. Committee vice-presidents are
Mrs. Lisle Pym, Mrs. John Shaw, Mrs.
Bill Murray and Mary Lewis. Ticket-
secretaries are Mrs. Noel Thomas, 151
New-street, Brighton (XB 2060), and Mrs.
Charles Digges, 54 Wattle Tree-road,
Armadale (UY 5077). The dance has been
timed to coincide with the Royal Agri-
cultural Show, and “old girls” now living
in the country are specially invited.
Tickets are £2 10s. each.
☆ ☆ ☆
The French Consul, M. C. Le Bas de
Plumetot (whose wife wore with her loose
coat of cigar-brown-and-white-checked
tweed a pillbox-hat of aqua-blue pleated
chiffon), opened the exhibition of French
creative art at George’s. It contains
lovely rock-crystal chandeliers, Limoges
dishes and figures, and many other fine-
china pieces.
But it was the fashions from the great
Parisian houses which most women were
anxious to see, especially those from
Fath, Heim and Desses. As well as
frocks from the haute couture, there were
embroidered blouses, lingerie, sportswear
and millinery. Lovely jewellery and
accessories were also well in the fashion-
picture.
Greatly admired was Heim’s three-piece
suit of brilliant-cerise pure-silk. The
jacket was double-breasted, the skirt very
slim; and a new long-torso jumper of
the same material went with it. The
neckline was a deep square in the front
extending to a low V at the back, where
it buttoned. Balmain’s short frock of
heavy navy-blue satin also had many
admirers. Simply made, with a long
belted bodice, it had a high neckline
finished with a flat collar, and at the back
a deep V. The skirt was very bouffant.
Eye-catching among the accessories was
a stole of palest blue-mauve organza
heavily sprinkled with soft, white down-
feathers.
☆ ☆ ☆
Regretfully music-lovers said goodbye
to another artist this week when Matti-
wilda Dobbs gave her final recital in the
Town Hall. The soprano wore a lime-
green duchesse-satin gown. The bodice,
trimmed with silver beads and sequins,
had a dropped shoulder-line. Pleating
fell into soft panels at each side of the
very full, slightly-trained skirt. Noted
in the audience were U.S. Consul Givon
Parsons and Mrs. Parsons, Mrs. D. J. S.
Mackinnon, Mrs. Herbert Brookes, Mrs.
Claude Couchman, Dr. Florence Cooper
and Bonnie McCallum.
# V V
A bitterly cold night for the premiere
at the Comedy of “The Teahouse of the
August Moon,” but there were many
strapless gowns worn. The wife of Vice-
Admiral Sir John Collins wore a formal
gown in which gunmetal-grey chiffon
and Chantilly-lace were mixed. Mrs.
Earl Daum’s velvets were powder-blue;
Mrs. Richard Chaney wore lime-green
taffeta with black-moire and pearl trim-
mings on the strapless bodice. A short,
full skirt of bronze satin and a pearl-
embroidered white jersey blouse were the
choice of Mrs. E. Kirwan. Mrs. Alan
Jones’s full-skirted gown was of hyacinth-
blue taffeta, Mrs. David Elder’s short-
tiered bouffant frock was of black Chan-
tilly-lace, Mrs. Maie Hoban wore emerald-
green chiffon, Mrs. T. J. Ryan chiffon in
Parma-violet tonings.
Mrs. Frank Tait’s short, full, black
skirt had a gold spiderweb pattern and
was worn with a black evening-sweater.
Black ensembles were also the choice of
Mrs. Mick Ress and Mrs. Leon Massoni.
Mrs. A. G. Silk’s white faille had clusters
of jewel-embroidery on the bodice.
Mrs. Colin Norman’s emerald-green
chiffon frock had a white femleaf pattern
of beads and sequins. Mrs. Maurice
Nathan’s short sheath-frock was of
pervenche-blue guipure-lace. An over-
skirt of white Honiton-lace highlighted
Mrs. Alec Finlay’s short junior-blue
organza frock.
☆ ☆ ☆
Designers in four States co-operated
in the first Australian Fashion Conven-
tion, in which every garment displayed
by mannequins was of Tennyson discip-
lined-fabric. This material, which is
crease-resisting, easy to care for, quick
to wash, dry and iron, and needing no
starch, is mostly cotton. But it is a
cotton which is up-to-the-minute in
design. Lovely fresh florals, checks and
stripes were seen in profusion ; jacquards,
metal stripes and bold contemporary
designs were on show. Cotton runs
through sea island, embroidered, fine-
grain, cotton-sateen, cotton-taffeta, dis-
ciplined-satin charm, cotton-jacquard
ottoman, screen-printed disciplined-pop-
lin, grosgrain, tissue-lawn and grasscloth.
A gem from a Sydney designer was a
useful frock and jacket in black-and-
white-printed disciplined-cotton. The
frock was sleeveless, the skirt slim, with
slit-pockets edged with white. The waist-
fitting jacket had bracelet-length sleeves
and long lapels of white cotton.
Among many samples from Brisbane a
teenage party-frock in geranium-pink
fine-grain cotton was outstanding; from
another northern designer came a short
evening-ensemble in disciplined silver-
and-gold moire-grasscloth. Simple but
attractive was a street-frock, the creation
of an Adelaide designer, made in discip-
lined red-and-white-woven striped-cotton.
A street-frock by Harold Grigg, of Mel-
bourne, was cut on the H-line. The
fitted bodice had bracelet-length sleeves
and a smart sailor-collar. The skirt was
short and very full. Material was a blue-
and-white-embroidered disciplined Man-
hattan-cotton.
V V V
Bulgarian pianist Ventsislav Yankoff
was guest-of-honor at a late-afternoon
party at Majella, St. Kilda-road. Presi-
dent of the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra subscribers’ committee Keith
Halliday received the guests, but it was
left to Mr. John Chaldjian (who had
lived for four years in Bulgaria) to make
the speech of welcome. Mrs. Ewart
Chappie (wife of the manager in Victoria
for A.8.C.) wore a grey suit and a water-
melon-pink cloche; Mrs. Guy Bakewell
had a matching beret for her charcoal-
grey suit.


JOURNALIST WANTED
“The Bulletin” requires the ser-
vices of a competent journalist, with
political and general experience, for
staff post. Must he able to sub.
and fill-in where required, and to
have an appreciation of clear and
expressive writing. Under 40 pre-
ferred.
Apply, “Journalist,” Box 2531,
G.P.0., Sydney.
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated ip England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WAXES OFFICES
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
Unclaimed Money
FREAK, Tom Brooks, deceased, died on
the 18th September, 1927, at “Fairfield,”
Oakhurst Road, West Moors, Dorset. In-
formation required as to whereabouts of
his two sons, ERNEST G. FREAK and
SIDNEY H. FREAK, both of whom are
believed to have resided at some time
in New Zealand or Australia, or of their
descendants. Replies to MESSRS. H. W.
DIBBEN & COMPANY, Solicitors, of
West Borough, Wimbome, Dorset,
England.
» Missing Friends
TO RONALD RAYMOND POWELL
formerly of Geelong Gaol Geelong
Labourer but now of parts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife ALISON
JOYCE POWELL (otherwise Vickers)
has instituted proceedings against you
for a Declaration of Nullity of Marriage
and unless you enter an appearance in
the Office of the Deputy Prothonotary
at Ballarat Victoria within twenty one
days of this advertisement the case may
proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs. —W. H. HEINZ &
GORDON, 22 Lydiard Street South,
Ballarat, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
ELIZABETH JANE HINCHCLIFFE,
formerly of No. 18, Railway Street,
Cook’s Hill, Newcastle. Would anyone
knowing the whereabouts of the next-of-
kin of the abovenamed kindly communi-
cate with the undersigned, MESSRS.
JOHNSON & O’NEILL, Solicitors, Box
403-d, P. 0., Newcastle.
TO FREDERICK SIEGFRIED BURNS
formerly of 196 a’Beckett Street West
Melbourne but now of parts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MAVIS
BURNS has instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the ground of deser-
tion for three years UNLESS you enter
an appearance in the office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court in Mel-
bourne on or before the 10th day of Sep-
tember 1955 and file an answer in the
said office by the 20th day of September
1955 the case may proceed in your
absence.—D. CONDON, 469 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
Public Notice
I, NICOS LIVISSIANIS, of Greek nation-
ality, born at Castellorizon, Greece, resi-
dent 9 years in Australia, now residing
at 113 Macauley Rd., Stanmore, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Cyclone Company
of Australia Limited
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1910 of the State of Victoria on 9th February 1914)
REGISTERED OFFICE: Gipps Street, Abbotsford, Victor!*
ISSUE AT PAR OF
500,000 CUMULATIVE
PREFERENCE SHARES
OF £1 EACH
6%
NOW OPEN
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATION FORMS OBTAINABLE FROM:
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES
All Branches of
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Underwriting Brokers:
lAN POTTER & CO.
360 Collins Street 31 Hunter Street
Melbourne Sydney
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
For public information only: This is not a Prospectus or an advertisement of a
Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to the public to subscribe
for the Preference Shares mentioned herein.
1P6.18
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Lucia da Lammermoor”
Cammerano’s text, based on
Scott’s novel, is lurid melo-
drama. Yet “Lucia” has main-
tained its place in the affections
of audiences for 120 years—
because, of course, Donizetti
loaded it with a richer cargo of
melodies than he gave to any of
his other 62 operas. And,
towering above everything else,
is the great Sextet, the most
remarkable piece of concerted
writing in all opera.
At the opening of the current
performance at Sydney Empire,
Clara Scarangella sang the title-
role in a coloratura which stood
up well enough to the heavy
demands made on it in the Mad
Scene. The soprano, whose
flaming-carrot wig appeared to
change chameleon-like as the
opera proceeded, depended on
staring eyes for her effect of
dementia —a performance not as
convincing as Barbara Wilson’s
in the local production of a few
seasons ago.
Kenneth Neate was a manly
and romantic Edgar, in capital
voice. Ferdinand Li Donni
suffused his strong baritone with
anger at his sister’s early in-
transigence and generally gave
a good account of aristocratic
stand-over methods. Adelio
Zagonara’s unwittingly comic
appearance as Lord Arthur
would have provided any bride
with a strong reason for putting
him out of pain with a sharp
instrument.
The haggis-and-spaghetti dish
served by the chorus wasn’t very
palatable —they were too often
too late coming in for the beat.
Dressing and decor were drab —
the few frail-looking, drunken
headstones in the final scene
would be enough to make any
Caledonian aristo ashamed to be
planted under ’em. And the
scene-shifters took an uncon-
scionable time in arranging it.
♦j* 4& 4jjt
Mattiwilda Dobbs
Mattiwilda Dobbs has in-
creased her Melbourne Town
Hall prestige with each succes-
sive concert, and, as an accom-
panist, Raymond Lambert has
been hard on her heels.
The singer made excursions
into every field of music—
French, Italian, German and
even Chinese —and returned in
each case with fresh treasures.
Her Chinese songs, of course,
weren’t Chinese at all—they were
by Roussel —but she has an
uncanny ability to reflect the
spirit of every song she sings,
regardless of nationality.
Nothing she did was so
delightful as her Mozart. Con-
stanza’s aria, “Ach, Ich liebte,”
from Mozart’s opera “II
Seraglio,” was, as they say, out
of this world.
Yankoff
Ventsislav Yankoff opened his
first Sydney recital with Bach’s
“Chromatic Fantasy and Fugue.”
The recitative was clear and
calm, the soaring flights of the
Fantasy marked by beautifully
controlled arpeggios and richness
of tone. The Fugue was treated
with austerity.
In the “Waldstein” Sonata, the
first of the form cast by Beet-
hoven in a big mould, the open-
ing allegro was swept through in
tempestuous style. Mysticism
hovered over the short adagio,
and there were high spirits and
lilting exuberance in the lovely
final movement totally, a
capital reading.
There were two Intermezzi of
Brahms: the E Minor, Op. 119
No. 2—a “love-song for the
piano”—and the C Major, Op.
119 No. 3. The E Flat Major
Rhapsody, the last work for the
piano written by Brahms,
brought out playing of fine
chordal strength.
Liszt was represented by two
of his most attractive works:
“St. Francis of Assisi Preach-
ing to the Birds,” and “St.
Francis de Paul Walking on the
Waves,” in which the rolling
reverberation in the left hand
was built up into a shattering
climax.
Yankoff’s approach to the
poetical side of his art was
best demonstrated in the two
Schumann works —the C Major
Fantasy, with its full quiver of
subtly-changing moods, and
“Papillons,” flights of Schu-
mann’s most charming fancy
played with fine sensitiveness.
The young Bulgarian rode the
swirling rapids of Balakirev’s
Oriental fantasy, “Islamey,” and
never seemed in danger of piling-
up on any of the many technical
snags which stud it.
* * *
Southern String Quartet
Highlight of a magnificent
programme in the recital of the
Southern String Quartet, at the
Assembly Hall in Melbourne,
was the Ernest Bloch Quintet
for Piano and Strings, which
that brilliant pianist Walter
Susskind made a thing of magic.
Paul McDermott, who founded
the ensemble in 1951 and has
since raised it to an important
position in the musical life of
Melbourne, also contributed a
bit of magic—to the Adagio and
Fugue in C Minor of Mozart.
Debussy’s Quartet in G Minor
was a superb performance of a
superb piece of music—even the
breaking of his bow by the
viola-player didn’t spoil it.
An Australian Play
Ray Mathew’s “We Find the
Bunyip,” to be put on by Geoff-
rey Thomas and his Theatre for
Playwrights at Sydney Inde-
pendent next Monday and Tues-
day, should be interesting enough
for anybody with the Australian
theatre at heart to go along and
see it.
However it may turn out in
production, it is a most intriguing
piece in manuscript: lively,
comic, full of love and grog,
possibly a bit squalid, but with
an underlying or pervading atmo-
sphere of poetry. Making a free
and fluid use of the possibilities
of the stage, it might have been
influenced by either Chekhov or
Saroyan, or both; and when it
was shown to Tyrone Guthrie a
few months ago he was
interested enough to write the
author a long letter about it,
part criticism, part praise.
It is set in an Australian
country pub and is one of the
very few plays written in this
country since Louis Esson’s “The
Drovers” which seems to arise
naturally and spontaneously
from the life of the people: Ray
Mathew has long since demon-
strated his freshness of observa-
tion in the poems he has
published in The Bulletin.
Artbursts
“Women’s Weekly” Portraits
If there is a painting which
draws one back and back to it
for a quiet pleasure not else-
where to be found in the large
exhibition of portraits for the
“Australian Women’s Weekly”
prize at the N. S. Wales National
Gallery it is Arthur Murch’s
“Artist’s Wife and Daughter.”
And if one has singled out
Murch’s work more than once
lately for special mention it is
because here, within his limited
range, we have a painter of
assured craftsmanship with a
distinctive and curiously poetic
view of life: in a word, an
artist. And artists, among
painters, are rare. Murch’s por-
trait, with the white cat in-
cluded, is beautifully har-
monious in its color-scheme of
pink and blonde; it rests grace-
fully in its frame instead of
shouting for attention; it is soft,
tender and odd.
It is the drop in intensity of
mood, the change from poetic
vision to a cosy domestic happi-
ness, that makes the essential
difference between the Murch
and Ivor Hele’s excellent “Mrs.
Michael Hone and Christie.”
But the child is admirably
painted ; the mother is easily the
most living portrait-study in the
exhibition; technically, except
that it tends to obtrude a little
out of its frame, it is the most
capable (as well as the most
charming) portrait Hele has yet
exhibited.
The two prizewinners, Jack
Carington Smith and Judy
Cassab, have both, like Murch,
attempted to transcend reality;
to dramatise their portraits;
and though Hele’s vivid charac-
terisation may serve him best in
the end, these paintings do gain
an added effect from their poses,
their color-patterns and their
intensity. The Carington Smith
is bulky, “monumental,” pleasing
in its subdued greys and greens;
dingy, depressing and impressive
in its total effect; the Judy
Cassab is striking in its cubist
design and bold colors, but fails
to capture the life of the sitter.
There is a Greenhill not far
away from these in interest; two
indifferent Dobells; a dia-
phanous but still accomplished
Mary Edwards (who is now
painting under the name of
Mary Edwell-Burke); a Garrett
Kingsley with a vital head and
meaningless academic drapes;
a good Margaret Olley; a
pleasant touch of Renoir from
Fhyl Waterhouse; and, in the
Rmazing array of rejects, at
least one painting that should
have been rescued, Betty Quel-
hurst’s amusing “Mrs. Harvey’s
Floral Hat.”
* ❖ *
Douglas Pratt
When Douglas Pratt can do
anything as well as he does the
tinted drawing “Old Bridge, Near
Bristol” in his exhibition at
Sydney Grosvenor Galleries,
fresh in atmosphere, clean in
wash, beautifully firm in draw-
ing, you would wonder why he
ever does anything else.
But he does; and so the only
thing to do is to go on to the
oils, which are somehow pretty-
pretty without (except “On the
Bunnan Creek”) really being
pretty, noting that two Harbor
scenes, perhaps because they are
grey, seem to have more atmo-
sphere and feeling than the rest;
and around the watercolors,
which in a modest way are crisp
and pleasant, not unlike those of
Harold Herbert; and then back
to “Old Bridge, Near Bristol”
and to the equally fine black-and-
white drawings and etchings of
gumtrees, to wonder again why
Mr. Pratt ever does anything
else.
Talkies
“The High and the Mighty”
(Sydney Regent): A variety of
people all facing disaster in a
partly - crippled trans - ocean
plane. Some characters are well
drawn, others sketched indiffer-
ently ; they behave generally as
might be expected. Tension is
well maintained, and Robert
Stack and John Wayne are a
likely couple of pilots.
♦ ♦ ♦
“Bread, Love and Dreams”
(Sydney Savoy): An Italian
offering in which Gina Lollo-
brigida, as the fiery, tempera-
mental, donkey-riding wench,
leads the newly - appointed
marshal of military police (Vit-
torio de Sica) a merry dance
before he turns to the more
mature charms of the village
midwife (Marisa Merlini). The
trio carry the light-hearted
doings through very well.
&
“Beautiful Stranger” (Sydney
Esquire): Ginger Rogers is
apparently too dumb to realise
that the tight-lipped boy-friend
who keeps her in millionaire-
style luxury on the Riviera, and
who consorts with shady charac-
ters, is a crook. When she trans-
fers her affections to a high-
minded young man the tight-
lipped one turns quite nasty, and
the real interest in the film be-
gins. Unfortunately, this occurs
only in the last 15 minutes or so.


Dad Sank a
Well
Thiele
DAD sank a well once, and
I’ll never forget it. To us
boys it gave the scent of
dangerous romance, to
Dad it was something of a
grand experiment—a safety-
valve for his yeasty scientific
yearnings—and to Mum it was a
prolonged nightmare interlaced
with visions of broken bones,
blood, water, and cataclysmic
explosions.
I think it all started because of
us, though. There were seven
of us —five boys and two girls
—and we were growing-up.
Bruno was eighteen, Louisa
seventeen, and Herbert and I
had just shaken ourselves free
of school and were beginning
to feel our oats at the country
dances. It wasn’t long before we
were taking Dad’s accordion
down to the old wood and iron
hall and setting ourselves up as
the music-makers of Gonunda;
all of which naturally meant a
lot of face-washing, hair-
brushing, shoe-polishing and, in
the end, bathing.
And there the crisis began.
For Dad, in his pioneer house-
designs, had never envisaged a
bathroom as even remotely
necessary. Even the use of a
sitz-bath was to him a mere
pandering to effeminate
buttocks ; and in any case it was
something that could be carried
out in the kitchen, on the
veranda, or out under the back-
yard peppercorn-tree.
But at seventeen Louisa had
begun to think differently. She
was as pretty as a galah, with
fair hair and a dash of Dad’s
unpredictability, and so naturally
enough the first hint of revolt
came from her.
It was a dinner-time, on a hot
December day. Dad, erect and
patriarchal, was sitting at the
head of the table munching
voluminously at his mashed
potatoes and cucumber salad,
and carving a forequarter of
cold mutton with gruesome dex-
terity. He and Bruno had just
come in from the top wheat-
paddock, and the importance of
the harvest sat in the chaff and
dust on their shoulders. Perhaps
Louisa considered it an oppor-
tune moment for introducing
baths, though she was never a
respecter of circumstance. Any-
way, she set about Dad, straight
off.
She was not going to sit in
a hip-bath any longer, she said ;
on the veranda, under
the peppercorn-tree or anywhere
else. She had reached the stage
where young men were calling
on her and she had no intention
of receiving them from a bath-
tub at the front door, or of beat-
ing a naked and humiliating
retreat round the side of the
house whenever she spied them
coming down the track. In short,
she wanted a bathroom.
Mum twittered nervously over
the tea-pot at such heresy and
sawed off half-a-dozen unneces-
sary slices of through look-
ing too fearfully at Dad. For
insubordination was something
Dad would not tolerate —in his
children, his wife, his neighbors,
or anyone else. Yet for the
moment he sat quite still, his
face half-buried in his immense
tea-cup, and his breath, snorting
angrily from his hairy nostrils,
churning up a little maslstrom
inside. Then, very deliberately,
he put down the cup and turned
full blast on Louisa across the
table.
And what the devil do you
want to bath gt all for?” he said
“Tell me that! ”
Louisa’s eyes and mouth got
as close to a sneer as they dared.
Because you can’t keep clean
without bathing, that’s why!
You get . . . well, you get . .
Here Herb, unwittingly parti-
san, broke in unexpectedly with
a loud and decisive “B.O.” But
Dad, despite all his earthy ex-
perience of farm and fallow,
had never come upon this
remarkable symbol of modern
advertising. He jerked his head
angrily at Herbert.
“Be quiet; bad enough your
sister talking stupid, without you
starting.”
But Louisa saw her opening
and pressed on. “That’s just it!
B.O.”
The little veins on the side of
Dad’s nose seemed suddenly
engorged and red. “Be oh
what?”
“Just 8.0., that’s all. And
you’ve got to bath to get rid
of it.”
“To the devil with 8.0. Talk
English.”
Bruno, who like Dad liked the
clear and concise phrase, helped
himself to more cucumber and
simultaneously ended it all in
one thrust, devastatingly lucid:
“It means you stink.”
Dad cast a grudgingly-
appreciative glance at Bruno and
then turned firmly to annihilate
Louisa:
“So? Then I suppose we’d
better all wash and powder our-
selves from neck to bottom
before we go back on the
harvester this afternoon! Smear
ourselves all over with paste and
grease till we smell like pole-
cats. Huh! Young fellows these
days are pansies! Makes me
sick to walk past ’em. A fellow
ought to knock ’em down and
sweat all over ’em. Make ’em
smell like a man.”
He looked critically at Louisa.
“If you’re thinking of picking up
a young chap for yourself never
mind about bringing home a
walking chemist’s shop. Get a
fellow that works. A bit of
good sweat never hurt any man.
Makes him smell sweet.”
“Sweet! ” Louisa’s thin nostrils
quivered like a kangaroo’s. “And
what about me? Have I got to
sweat to smell sweet too?”
For the moment Dad was non-
plussed. He seemed unable to
decide just how a woman, as
distinct from a man, might be
expected to smell. He looked at
Louisa again, opened his mouth,
glanced suddenly at the clock,
and then strode off outside with
an angry grunt.
T>UT Louisa had sown a doubt
13 in Dad’s mind, though as
usual he gave no inkling that it
had taken root. For the rest
of the summer he swept her
aside with a glance or buried
her in an occasional volcanic
outburst on the shortage of
water about the place.
And there, we had to admit,
he had a point. Our whole water-
supply, for the house, for Mum’s
vegetables and their fa?ade of
thistles, and for the stock when-
ever the dam ran dry, consisted
of two iron house-tanks and an
eight-thousand-gallon cement
hole, roofed and walled, that was
fed from the guttering of the
implement shed. And on this,
°f c °urse, the horses, cows,
fowls and cucumbers had prior
call.
Yet Dad, in his secret and
silent way, had already taken
m all this and was looking about
for the answer—more water.
And since dams were too dirty
and unreliable and tanks too
small, he lighted on the only
solution possible—a well.
That was how the great
experiment began.
My first suspicion that some-
thing was afoot came at the
beginning of March when I
caught Dad out in the long grass
by the back fence walking about
prophetically with something
that looked like an inverted
shanghai in his hand.
I went over and watched.
“What you doing, Dad?” I said.
He gave no answer, but
marched past me with a fixed
mesmeric stare and measured
tread like Lady Macbeth, grip-
ping hi§ occult apparatus in both
hands.
Scared, I ran down to the shed
where Bruno was shovelling out
fowl-dung and yelled: “Hey,
come here quick.”
Bruno pushed back his hat
and spat. “Got the wind up?” he
asked. “What for?”
But when he heard me describe
Dad he came quickly enough
and stood for a long time watch-
ing while Dad marched and
counter-marched through the
grass. Then he pushed a finger
under the brim of his hat,
scratched a sweaty lock, and
chuckled.
“Well I’m blowed,” he said.
“Damn me if the silly old cow
ain’t divining.”
I had a cloudy vision of Dad
in church grappling with the
Sunday litany, but the real pur-
pose of his ritual was soon clear,
even to me. On the following day
the clues grew stronger still when
we had to collect two new crow-
bars and a pick from the siding,
consigned with thrilling positive-
ness to A. J. Stasinowski,
Gonunda, via Muckamunginee.
And after tea that night Dad
made the official announcement,
as he always did when something
new and momentous was afoot.
“I’m putting down a well,”
he said. “Time we had more
water around the place.”
“Oh, Alfred!” Mum could
always show surprise with
gratifying spontaneity, even at
something we all knew. “That’ll
be nice. But you’ll have to be
very careful. Charlie Orrock was
killed in that well up at Black
Springs, remember, and Henry
Obst broke his leg last year when
the windlass fell in.”
It must have been the result
of a lifetime with Dad and five
growing sons that made thoughts
of blood and death spring into
Mum’s mind- whenever a new
venture was mooted. To her,
everyday tasks like shaving or
horseshoeing seemed bloody
businesses no less terrifying than
war and pillage.
But Dad failed even to sense
her flutter of alarm. “I’ve picked
the spot—between the house and
the cow-shed. Just down from
the underground tank. Couldn’t
be better. Two streams meet only
about forty feet down. Nice
and handy to all the tanks and
sheds; no need to use much
piping. We’ll make a start first
thing in the morning.”
By noon the next day we all
considered well-sinking a sport
that we should have thought
of long before, but that for some
inexplicable reason we had over-
looked.
“Should have done it years
ago,” Dad agreed. “Be wonder-
ful to have plenty of water
around the place. Might even put
in a bit of an orchard.”
“Oh, Alfred,” Mum said,
“that’ll be nice. Only we’ll have
to be careful; all the poison-
sprays and things you’ll need.
And then the children getting
at the green fruit.”
“Dang me if I mightn’t put up
a bathroom, too,” Dad went on
oblivious. “Specially for Louisa.”
“That’ll be lovely, Alfred,”
Mum said. “Of course we’ll have
to watch the children. Only last
week I was reading how a man
got drowned in his bath. They
found him lying face downwards
in six inches of water.”
“ ’Spose he had a heart-attack
in one of them showers,” said
Dad. “A flood of ice-cold water
all over your belly is enough to
give anyone the stroke. Some
people are lunatics.”
Mum considered the point
earnestly. “No, it couldn’t have
been a stroke because he had
a big bruise on his head. They
said he must’ve slipped on the
soap and knocked himself
unconscious.”
Despite Mum’s fearful prog-
nostications the first casualty of
the well was something quite
different and unexpected. It
happened two days later. We
were walking down in single-
file behind Dad to start the day’s
digging when suddenly, at the
very edge, he started back so
violently that Herb, who was
next in line, almost sprawled
over backwards in the mullock.
“Hellfire and damnation! ”
Dad cried. “Look! ”
TT was exactly what might have
been expected, on our place.
Gazing up at us apologetically
was Charity. Charity, orphaned
and bucket-fed from birth, was
something of a pet, even after
her seventh calf.
And at the moment she was
what a carpenter would have
called a snug fit —her tail wedged
tightly against one wall and her
head jacked up almost vertically
by the other, so that she regarded
us, and anything else that hap-
pened to come between her and
the sky, with a sort of wistful
constancy.
Herbert, shrieking with sadistic
delight, rushed up to get Mum
and the girls, but we could see
that it wasn’t very funny at all,
in Dad’s eyes. He bent down,
took Charity by the horns, and
heaved till his muscles bulged
and her neck seemed to stretch
out like a piece of stubborn
elastic. Then she gave a sudden
bellow of pain and struggled
upwards, pawing wildly with her
front hooves. The sudden slack
sent Dad hurtling down on his
back, Charity’s head appearing
momentarily between his rearing
legs before she slipped back
again, wild-eyed and frothing.
Dad got to his feet and swore
very loudly for so early in the
morning. Then he rushed at
Charity, seized her by the horns
again, and shook her head so
furiously from side to side that
her jaw-bones rattled and her
eyes swam dizzily in their
sockets.
“You motheaten old bitch,”
he said panting, “you can get
down into a well all right, but
you can’t damn’ well get out
again.”
That Newton, gravity, and the
general lack of fencing about
the place might have had some-
thing to 'do with Charity’s
present predicament Dad refused
to concede. Having shown her
by a second violent head-shaking
just how deeply he hated her
bovine guts, he stepped back
to think and plan. Mum, keening
softly to herself, came hastily
down the path, wringing her
hands.
“But it’s easy, Alfred,” she
cried ; “just dig away the bank
in front of her head till she can
jump out.”
She knelt down to pat
Charity’s streaming nostrils.
“There! Whoa, Charity! There!
There! Whoa! ”
Dad observed caustically that
there seemed no need for Charity
to whoa at all; on the contrary
she had done it so effectively
that she couldn’t un-whoa herself
if she tried. But Bruno took up
Mum’s suggestion.
“Yea, just dig a ramp,” he
repeated. “Like Mum said.”
Dad was irate. “And how the
devil are you ever going to have
a windlass or roof to your well
if you’ve got a great gaping
hole down one side? No! If
this inquisitive old dung-bag got
in straight down, she can damn’
well get out straight up. Herb,
go get the big ox-swingle and
the endless chain.”
Dad’s plan was masterful. He
drove the wagon alongside the
well, laid a big beam across
from it to a high post on the
other side, and swung the heavy
block and tackle from the
middle, about five feet above
Charity’s back. Then he climbed
down into the well beside her
to hitch the ropes under her
belly. But Charity had reached
such a state of stubborn resent-
ment that when he pushed her
over to make room for the ropes,
she leant back heavily, pressed
his face firmly into her hairy
flank, and imprinted the back
of his head into the soft clay
behind him.
There followed a brief com-
motion in the well, during which
Dad and Charity were strangely
intermingled until Dad, pom-
melling down with his fists and
using his knees in a sort of upper-
cut to the ribs, came out
triumphant with his hat squashed
down over his eyes and the two
ropes in his hands.
“Old bitch,” he said again,
breathing heavily. “A man ought
to shovel the dirt in on you and
leave you to rot.”
He hitched the ropes to the
big hook in the block and then
we all pulled lustily. It was
marvellous to see how Charity
came straight up out of that
well within a minute, and hung
there suspended like a grub
dangling from a wasp in flight.
“Now,” said Dad, swinging
her gently as if she had been
a slingful of potatoes on a
wharf, “push her over till she
can stand on the side.”
Perhaps we were too precipi-
tate. Perhaps the ropes had
started to pinch her belly. Per-
haps it was just that she was
a cow. Whatever the cause,
Charity was suddenly convulsed
by a frenzied urge for self-
preservation. Bellowing despair-
ingly, she started to work her
feet wildly like a trapped cray-
fish. Dad’s slings, not designed
to hold such an animate carcass,
began to slip slowly up towards
her neck, her behind sagged
heavily, and the next moment,
despite a desperate grab and
hideous roar from Dad, she fell
back into the hole again with a
scraping thud that brought down


Standardize
on
McCORMICK
INTERNATIONAL
MATCHED
EQUIPMENT!
m I
fi
■M
P
u-
U
A
Twine and wire tying 55
Series balers with capacities
up to 10 tons per hour.
ri
B-45 P.T.O. and B-45
engine-driven capacities up
to 5 tons per hour.
Make hay easier better faster this season.
Make hay pay by standardizing all your hay-
making jobs on McCormick International.
There’s a McCormick International machine for
every haymaking job including mowing, raking,
baling, loading and forage harvesting! McCormick
International haymaking equipment is designed
expressly for tractor operation designed to
give years of trouble-free work at high field
speeds. Get the most modern, most effective
range of haymaking equipment working for
you this season standardize all your hay-
making jobs on McCormick International
matched equipment. See your local IH dealer.
AUTOMATIC PICK-UP BALERS
SIDE DELIVERY RAKE
POWER MOWER • BALE LOADER
FORAGE HARVESTER
SILAGE MAKING WITH THE B-45. Write for a report
on baled silage to International Harvester in your capital
city, or see your local I H dealer.
07 -3«
m
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
DISTRICT SALES OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES. WORKS: DANDENONG AND GEELONG, VICTORIA
a hundredweight of dirt on top
of her.
Dad was beside himself. He
tore off his hat and beat down
on her back with it as furiously
as if she’d been a bushfire.
“Get the gun, Bruno!” he
yelled. “Get the axe and gun!”
But Bruno regarded this as an
imprecation rather than a com-
mand, so he stayed his ground.
“Dig her out,” cried Mum
imploringly. “Make a slope and
dig her out.”
Dad’s blood was up. “Dig her
out be damned,” he said; “dig
her in more likely!”
He grabbed the ropes and
prepared for another descent.
“You maggoty old mongrel,”
he growled, “I’ll get you out of
this even if I’ve got to chop you
up first and throw you out bit
by bit.”
Mum blanched, fully believing
that Charity’s hip or udder
would come flying up piecemeal
at any moment. But Dad kept
his self-control and went to
work again.
It was just on dinner-time
when we finally swung her clear
of the battered hole, and even
then she was in imminent danger
of coming up hanging by the
neck like a corpse from the
gallows. As she lumbered off,
shaking her head and spuming
angrily, Dad made a short speech
about the usefulness of dairying
in general, and about cows, wells,
women, and carelessness in
particular.
We spent the rest of the day
putting up a fence and trying to
make the whole thing look like
a well again instead of a badly-
constructed and recently-used
elephant pit.
“It’s not just the digging you
have to worry about when you
want to put down a well,” Dad
said testily that night. “It’s all
the public nuisances you have to
face —like people and cows and
things. That’s what takes the
time.”
AT the end of the week the well
was down fifteen feet and
the complexion of the adventure
was slowly changing. Soft red
clay had given place to hard
white limestone, the pick to the
crowbar, words to wheezing
grunts.
It was no longer possible for
Dad to throw up the loose rock
and earth with a shovel, so he
tied a rope to a big bucket,
passed the end of it over a
jarrah bearer, and put Bruno,
Herbert and me on the other
end of it. This, he said, would
do instead of a windlass for a
while because it was a lot
quicker. It also quietened the
three of us very effectively. We
had to walk forwards and back-
wards in tandem like three pit
ponies, while the bucket and
its accompanying stream of
advice or abuse followed us up
out of the hole or receded back
into it again.
Somehow we never seemed to
pull fast enough for Dad. In
fact, this craving for urgency
and speed nearly made an end
of him on the sixth day. He
kept piling more and more into
the bucket until it was heaped
to the handle with rubble and
chips of rock balanced pre-
cariously on the rim. Worse
still, he continued to hack and
scrape as we pulled, standing
right underneath the line of the
receding bucket and taking a
shower of loose stuff on his hat
and shoulders whenever we
bumped the rope or pulled un-
evenly.
Bruno suggested that he might
have the whole bucket on his
head one day, but Dad laughed
at him. In the end it was a
jagged two-pound lump of lime-
stone that took up Bruno’s
argument. Dad had wedged it
under the handle but it worked
loose on the way up, teetered for
a second, and then fell without a
sound, though Dad made plenty
a moment later. It caught him
a glancing blow down the side
of the cheek, bounced off his
shoulder against the other side
of the well, and came down with
a thud across the toe of his boot.
After his first roar of surprise
and pain Dad came straight out.
He climbed up the rickety
wooden ladder three rungs at
a time and loomed out of the
opening like a wounded gorilla,
his face striated with wide purple
streaks and the blood meander-
ing about among the unshaven
stubble of his cheek before it
finally dripped solemnly from his
chin.
“Young devils,” he said, rub-
bing hi§ shoulder angrily ; “try-
ing to kill a man!”
For once Herbert and I were
glad that Bruno was older than
we were. In such times it was
good to be able to shelter behind
a spokesman.
“Sorry, Dad,” said Bruno. “It
must’ve slipped.”
“Slipped be damned! ” Dad
was in no mood for compromise,
“Bloody carelessness! You
bumped it!”
“Well, like I said ...”
“Never mind what you said!
A man could’ve been killed.” '
“what if it’d Wn thf> whole
HnamSlv
“like T ° inslsiea 88 y ’
* ~ * • . .. . . ,
Haas lace was a terrible sight.
glowered at tiruno gorily.
. uaup •, 1 sai o berore,
nuna vvnat you said, you damn
Killed me.
“You shouldn’t’ve been right
underneath! Ought’ve stood
aside a bit like I said.”
Dad grew even redder —
whether from blood inside or
outside the skin it was hard to
tell. “The way you three lunatics
pull, I’d have to get right out of
the well altogether.” He pushed
past Bruno. “Tell Mum to fetch
bandages and hot water.”
Bruno strode resolutely up to
the house after him. “If it’d been
the whole bucket,” he repeated
insistently, “it would’ve flattened
you.”
Dad turned as they reached the
the veranda and towered over
Bruno with terrible import. “If
it’d been the whole bucket,” he
said grimly, “you’d’ve been had
up for a slaughterman.”
“Manslaughter,” said Bruno
authoritatively. “But I
wouldn’t’ve. I warned you. It
was like I said.”
Bruno’s moral vindication of
himself was cut short by a shriek
from Mum. Admittedly Dad
looked a horrible sight with the
mixture of blood, stubble and
half-dried limestone dust all over
his face, and for a moment I
thought Mum was going to faint,
But she had experience to steel
her and her mind was well pre-
pared by constantly dwelling on
all the calamitous possibilities of
well-digging. So she really dealt
with Dad’s wounds efficiently
enough, moaning a little now
and then for him, and recounting
intermittently the gruesome
history of all the recent disasters
in her repertoire.
There was no more work on
we q f or tke rest c f that week,
j ns t ea d, Dad hammered and
swea t e d in the blacksmith’s shop
among pillars of flame, smoke
aIK j dust, growling out periodical
oa th s like an angry Vulcan;
an d when he finally emerged he
was wearing the most remark-
able hat in history. It was made
of iron and seemed to combine
the millinery principles of a
centurion’s helmet and a pro-
fessor’s mortarboard, though
the latter drooped a little from
the centre, giving it a run-off
effect like the straw-plait of a
Chinese peasant.
“Now,” he said triumphantly,
donning his helmet and looking
at Bruno grimly, “try again!
I’ve got you beat.”
Bruno was barely conciliatory.
“A helmet might save a man’s
head,” he said, “but you still
oughtn’t to work when the
bucket goes up. If it catches you
on the back, bending down, it’ll
flatten ? you just the same ; like
I said.”
But Dad was confident. In the
j nterim h ? d && U P the ™ d ;
* ass cleared the mullock
from the mouth of the well. He
calculated that he was hair-way
d °w n 1° underground reser-
VOI J where his two streams met,
and that success was moistening
underfoot. Moreover, his
frightening headpiece, though s
h eav Y uiat his head lolled over
to one Slde whenever he forgot
Jo brace his neck muscles, did at
lf ast . se r ve to divert the falling
debris that rained and ricocheted
al l round hun.
After three more days some-
thing of his old heartiness
returned. He beamed expan-
sively at Louisa over the dinner-
table and broached the question
of bathing again. “I reckon
we’ll put up a big mirror at the
end of the tub,” he said, “so
we can see ourselves in the
bath.”
“What about a family photo?”
said Bruno, and then laughed
hastily lest Dad, in a moment of
exuberance, should take it up.
MEANWHILE the news of
Dad’s well - sinking had
spread abroad and we began to
suffer our first accidental visits
from friends and technical
advisers.
“Ain’t got no timbers in ’er
yet, Stas,” said old Oscar
Aveling wheezily. “Reckon you
ought to timber ’er or she’ll
cave in on you.”
“She don’t need no timbers,”
growled Dad. “She’s timbered
all the way with bloody hard
rock. All but the first five feet is
limestone and granite.”
“That’s just it, Stas! Just
the important part; the first five
feet.”
He scuffed near the edge with
his boot and a shower of loose
dirt fell out of sight.
“That’d be quite all right,”
Dad said meaningly, “if only I
could keep things away from
trampling and breaking the edges
in. Cows and things.”
Dad was right about the
granite. It was so hard that
after a week he had only gone
down another foot. Wedges,
adzes, chisels, crowbars and
drills lay everywhere, their edges
turned up like dervishes’ toes.
Dad sat at the end of the dinner-
table , each day, munching
moodily and giving his opinion,
between mouthfuls, on lime-
stone, granite, marble, quartz,
and any other kind of rock he
could lay his tongue to.
Old Oscar Aveling turned
over the hard steel-blue pieces
that Dad had thrown up and
shook his head ominously.
“Give it up, Stas,” he said.
“Give it up! I know what that
sort of rock means.”
Dad bridled. “It’s just a
layer,” he said impatiently, as
if he’d talked the whole thing
over with the well beforehand
and knew its intentions in-
timately. “Once we’re through
that we’ll be into that water-
bed.”
( Continued on next page)


L H
b n
mis&si k
Don’t just ask for
“Brandy and Soda’’
...ask for and enjoy
ghwemi
mrnm
• t
A Product of the House of Seppelt
N.S.W. Agents:
TUCKER AND CO. PTY. LTD., ESTABLISHED 1838
CT9
Old Oscar spat sceptically
on a piece of flinty blue rock and
watched the mocking splat of
moisture spread slowly over it.
“Well, Stas,” he said, “tell me
this! How the devil is the water
going to get into that bed
through this here granite?”
Dad was getting pretty
irritable. “Hell, Oscar, how
does water get in anywhere? It
leaks in through cracks and
things.”
“I can’t see no cracks and
things,” said Oscar, “and I
can’t see no leakin’ —not any-
where. No, I reckon the only
thing to do is to turn this here
well into a tank. It’d hold like
a bottle.”
Dad was not one to take
kindly to jokes or advice, least
of all when they came from
Oscar.
“For a joker who does such
a lot of talking,” he said, “you
don’t say much! Come back
next week and there might be
something to blab about.”
And at dinner that day we
goggled genuinely when he
made his fateful announcement.
“Blasting!” he said. “Have
to blast it; no other way of
shifting granite like that. I’ll
go in and see Ned Golding in
the morning.”
Mum paled, and earnestly
sliced a foot-long fritz with
trembling hands.
For all the dangers that
threatened life on a farm, explo-
sives were to Mum the most
lethal and mutilating. Her
memory brimmed with evidence
of it. Hands with their fingers
missing were to be found lying
about in blacksmith’s - shops
whenever small boys played with
detonators and hammers; and
scattered pieces of meat in dams
and wells marked the places
where charges had exploded
prematurely or belatedly. The
singes and burns that the five of
us gathered from apparently life-
less hungers on Guy Fawkes
night were to her only a sort of
gloomy prologue to the hideous
drama of unexploded gelignite
about to be produced by Dad.
“You’ll. . . You’ll have to be
very careful, Albert,” she said
tremulously. “Think of the
children with all that danger
about! Remember poor August
Mickan when he blew himself up
last Easter. All his hair and
clothes and everything was
blown off, and he came crawling
up to the house naked—stark
naked. It must have been awful
to see. Think of poor Mrs.
Mickan! ”
“Well, Ned won’t come crawl-
ing around naked!” Dad said
brusquely. “He’s been blasting
all his life.”
Mum was silent, evidently
taking comfort in the thought
that it would be Ned Golding’s
body and not Dad’s that would
have to be hauled up piecemeal
with the windlass.
JVTED, powder-monkey or shot-
firer to some people, was
just plain blaster to Dad. He
was a big raw-boned fellow with
a brush of red hair that stood up
in a state of perpetual alarm,
apparently appalled at the
dangerous existence of its owner.
But Ned went about the whole
business with admirable non-
chalance. After two days of
drilling, sweating and muffled
swearing he said he was ready
for the charges, and we stood
around in silent awe as he
kneaded and cut the gelignite
with his old pocket-knife as if
it had been a plug of tobacco.
Then he disappeared into the
gloom of the well again, his
pockets bulging with fuses,
detonators and explosive like a
mobile arsenal.
He came up at last and had
a brief conference with Dad. We
hung about, breathless.
“Be best to fire in an hour or
so,” Ned said. “Late afternoon.
Gives things time to settle down
a bit overnight; any stubborn
plug o’ gelly’s got the chance to
make up its mind.”
He saw the expression on
Dad’s face and added, “Some
plugs is like flamin’ women;
you never know whether they’re
blowin’ hot or cold.”
We all went in for afternoon-
tea then, but for once we
couldn’t eat. The impending
violence about to be let loose
at our very door hung over us
too heavily. Our pulses leapt at
the thought of it and our
stomachs slid up and down steep
glissades like ski-jumps. All
except Ned, who munched away
heartily and carried on a one-
sided conversation with Mum,
quite unaware that she was by
now in a state of nervous
anaesthesia and incapable of
either thought or speech. The
very coolness of the fellow
shocked us. It was a sort of
blasphemy.
At last he got up, shaking his
pockets for matches. “Now, you
young fellows,” he said, “you’d
better stay round the house here
or in the sheds—just in case she
throws up a bit o’ shingle.”
“D’you think it’ll be strong
enough?” asked Dad, putting his
hands in his pockets to stop them
from getting caught up in one
another. “It’s a mighty bit of
granite, you know.”
Ned chuckled knowingly. “I
know it is, Stas. I know it is.
But it’s a mighty bit o’ gelly,
too. I put in four double
charges; ought to give some-
thing a headache.”
“Will it break through, d’you
reckon —to the water?”
“Can’t say, Stas, can’t say,”
Ned answered airily, tying a wad
of cloth to an immense length
of fencing-wire and saturating it
in a jam-tin full of kerosene.
“Sometimes a big charge like
this’ll bust right through to the
water like an earthquake, and
the next morning there she is—
full-up. But sometimes she’s just
a dry ’ole and all you’ve got for
it is a couple o’ dirty big blue
boulders.”
Dad began to retreat hastily
as Ned swung his blazing torch
in a wide arc past his head and
lowered it slowly down into the
hole, like McNab paying-out his
burning bush to John Rex. He
leaned far over, trying to find
the knot of fuses thirty feet
below.
The moment hung over the
whole farm—long and hushed.
Mum was prostrate on the
kitchen-sofa keening gently to
herself, the two girls stood
trembling by the door, and the
five of us were crouched motion-
less in a serried row by the
corner of the veranda, peering
out with rigid eyeballs.
“There they go,” cried Ned,
dropping the torch and making
good speed after Dad for the
shelter of the fowlhouse; “the
fuses are off.”
A silence followed—long and
so insufferable that it caught us
in the throat. We saw Ned’s
startled - looking hair appear
round the fowlshed wall, and,
after a goodly pause, Dad’s hat
protruded itself gently above it.
Three more seconds. Too long.
CJUSPENSE, poised incredibly
_ taut, was about to collapse
into anticlimax when at last the
violence came—so savage that
it numbed our ears and rattled
our skulls.
' A thud shook the earth be-
neath us like junket, swept
dizzily under the house and
echoed round and round our
heads. It was followed a second
later by two more and, after a
moment’s pause, by a fourth so
mighty that our whole universe
heaved and the bells were set
jangling in our ears.
A gush of granite-bombs and
splinters came raining down on
the iron roof and the well-
opening mouthed a swirling
pillar of dust and smoke that
stood up like a dirty whirlwind
on summer fallow. At the same
moment the whole kitchen win-
dow fell outwards slowly as if
it was very very tired and
sprawled its glass flat-out across
the veranda behind us.
Dad and Ned came walking
up from the fowlshed, Dad’s
mouth working for a while like
a leaking pump before the words
came.
“H-hell-fire, Ned! That was
a charge!”
“Should’ve shifted something.”
“Damn’ near shifted the whole
farm.”
“Stubborn stuff, granite. Likes
to blow upwards if it can get the
chance.”
“Blow upwards, all right! Put
a hole clean through the roof —
piece as big as a man’s head.”
“Just shows what gelly can
do!”
“And the window! Look at
the window! Smashed to bits!”
Ned lit his pipe. “Must’ve been
a bit loose.” He eyed the mess
of glass philosophically. “Little
things like that are bound to
happen,” he said, “when you give
her a decent charge. The im-
portant thing is whether or not
it’s done the trick down there.”
He thumbed at the smoking
crater. “Anyway, we’ll know
soon enough; I’ll go down first
thing in the morning.”
Although I had gone to sleep
determined to be up before
dawn, I was only half-awake
when I heard the yelling and
shouting outside. I pulled on a
pair of pants and ran out onto
the veranda. Ned, bending far
oyer, was peering into the well,
his astonished hair pointing like
rays straight at the rising sun;
and Dad was dancing a victory-
reel on the big heap of mullock
beside him.
“Look!” he cried. “Look!”
He grabbed Ned’s piece of wire
and lowered it feverishly into
the well. Then he pulled it up
again, seized the mop of half-
burnt rag on the end, and
brandished it above his head.
It hung limp and sodden.
“Look! Look! ” Dad took the
rag in his great hand and
squeezed. A ragged trickle of
water fell down over his boots.
“Water!” he yelled. “Tons of
it.” He seized the torch again
and ran his tongue hp and down
the piece of wire like a mouth-
organ player.
“Fresh,” he cried. “Fresh as
hell! What did I tell you! Tons
of fresh water right at the back
door.”
TT was a riotous breakfast we
1 all had that morning. Mum
laughed almost continuously—
the sort of half-laugh, half-cry
that comes from unutterable
relief. Dad spoke sweepingly of
pipes, gravity-tanks, troughs,
orchards, bathrooms, lucerne,
milk-production and home-
grown vegetables. And Ned tried
to tackle the more immediate
job of putting up a pump to test
the flow of water.
There was about three feet
there now, he said—too much
for anyone to work in. So we’d
have to pump hard for a day
to see if we could lower the
level, though from the look of
things he doubted whether we
could. We had evidently broken
through into Dad’s two under-
ground creeks.
After breakfast, though we all
wanted to help Dad and Ned,
the rest of us had to go through
the usual morning-ritual of cow-
milking, cream-separating, and
bull-pig-and-fowl-feeding. At
about nine-o’clock Bruno came
up to the house grumbling. He
filled a jam-tin with water at the
house tank and went off down
the yard with it.
“About time someone put a
new washer in this thing,” he
said to Dad as he went past.
“Never draws unless you put
water in first.”
Dad looked up momentarily.
“Next week,” he said magnani-
mously, “you can throw it in the
creek and jump on it.”
Five minutes later Bruno was
back. “Can’t wait till next week,”
he said. “Damn’ thing’s busted ;
and I’ve got to water the bull.”
“Then carry a bucket down
from the house! You’re not a
blasted cripple.” Dad always
waxed wrathful at trivial inter-
ruptions.
I don’t know which one of us
first sensed vaguely and uneasily
that something was wrong, but
Bruno it was who suddenly
conjured it up into dreadful
reality. He came walking firmly
back to the well.
“Come here,” he said.
There was something so
peremptory in his tone that it
shocked even Dad into obedi-
ence. Bruno led us straight over
to the underground tank where
he’d been wrestling with the
pump and threw back the lid of
the manhole.
“Look! , . . No wonder the
ruddy pump won’t work.”
We all crowded round the
manhole, peering in like parrots
round a hollow. Between Ned’s
ear and the rim of Dad’s hat I
could just see inside. But even
in that shadowy dampness one
thing was clear. The tank was
empty, and a long jagged crack
as wide as a man’s hand ran up
one wall, forking twice like the
sketch of a dead tree.
There was utter silence; even
the roosters didn’t risk a crow.
And then a dreadful dawn of
understanding spread slowly
across Dad’s face, and Ned's
hair stood straight up, taut with
alarm.
“Well I’m blowed,” Dad said
at last, forgetting to swear in
such a moment of sheer incredi-
bility.
“Busted!” said Ned. “Busted
wide open! Water must’ve run
straight down the crack and
drained her. Should’ve thought
about the tank before we blasted
—bein’ so close.”
After the first shock of dis-
covery Dad began to see the
awful implications of it all. He
turned on Ned, outraged.
“You and your damn’ blast-
ing,” he roared. “Now I’m still
where I am, and half the place
ruined besides.”
Ned scratched his ear and
looked over at the well reflec-
tively. “She must be a dry ’ole
after all.”
“Yea, and so’s my damned
tank!” Dad said.
~T\AD lost interest in the well
after that. Once he put a
few old logs across the top as a
sort of valedictory gesture, but
even then it was really only as
a sop to Mum.
For she carried the menace of
it about with her night and day.
As the thistles started to grow
up rich and rank on the mullock,
she walked past with her head
dressed permanently eyes-right
or eyes-left, looking for the tell-
tale evidence of broken weed
and clawing fingermarks to show
where one of us had followed
poor Charlie Orrock’s example
and gone to a melancholy end.
But Dad just turned his back
on it with a certain studied
indifference. It was his private
way of snubbing it. Perhaps, too,
by not filling it in he hoped to
delude the neighbors into think-
ing the whole thing was merely
held in abeyance until he could
spare a bit more of his time.
And so, while Mum looked out
on it through a murky twilight
of fear, Dad and the well lived
in a state of mutual compromise
—a sort of armed neutrality.
They still do.
One thing more, the month
immediately following Ned’s
hasty departure kept Dad and
the rest of us pretty busy with
repairs. I was down in the
underground-tank mixing cement
one day and Dad was clomp-
ing about dangerously on a step-
ladder trying to plaster over the
cracks in the wall, when old
Oscar Aveling’s head appeared
above him.
“Hullo, Stas,” he said genially,
“I hear you been havin’ trouble
with your water.”
Dad said nothing. “When
things are going right nobody
comes to see about it,” I
remember him saying to us once
with great conviction, “but when
there’s trouble they’re all around
—thick as crows.” And whereas
Mum would have extolled this
human trait as a great virtue,
I’m not at all sure that Dad
would have agreed with her. So
he just raised his eyes heaven-
ward, adjusted his hod, and went
on trowelling.
“Ah, that blue granite,” Oscar
continued happily. “I knew
straight away what that meant,
the minute I seen it.”
Still Dad said nothing* and
Oscar watched him critically for
a moment, head on one side
like the crow in Dad’s mind.
“Anyway,” he went on at last,
“are you goin’ to plaster out the
well too? Holds water like a
bottle you know, that granite.
You should’ve done that in the
first place —like I said.”
But as he was up on the sur-
face, and Dad was pressed in
closely between the hod and the
step-ladder, old Oscar escaped
without physical hurt —at leas!
for the time being.


wnomimm
Homumm
If SWM
urnsia man
fg
When you come to complete an application form for
subscription to the Commonwealth Security Loan now
open, you will see in the top right corner a space for
the inclusion of the name of your district.
Please remember to fill it in, because by so doing you
will reflect credit on your own city or town.
At the same time you will aid and encourage the efforts
of a group of public-spirited residents of your own
locality who give freely of their time and effort in the
national interest. They are the members of your district
Lc|an Committee.
These Committees came into being throughout
Australia in the early days of World War II to assist
in the vital task of raising Commonwealth Loan funds
to finance the war effort.
Their work continues today because they realise that
the success of Commonwealth Loans is a vital factor in
Australia’s peace-time expansion and national develop-
ment. Their unselfish efforts are deserving of the
utmost support.
You can give this support and help them to achieve
and exceed the money quotas they aim to reach in each
Commonwealth Security Loan by making sure that your
Loan subscription is credited to your district on your
application form.
NEW TERMS OF ISSUE-
One, 10 or 15 Years
Important changes have been made
in the terms of issue of this Loan.
Investors may now select from
Commonwealth Bonds or Inscribed
Stock as follow:
1. 10-year Securities bearing interest at
4Vi% per annum, issued at par, and
maturing on NOVEMBER 15, 1965.
2. 15-year Securities bearing interest at
4V2% per annum, issued at par, and
maturing on NOVEMBER 15, 1970.
3. One-year Securities bearing interest at
3% per annum, issued at £99/15/-
per cent, and maturing on AUGUST
15, 1956.
Minimum Subscription is £lO for the 10
or 15-year terms and £lOO for the short-
term Securities.
Applications may be lodged with any
bank, savings bank or stockbroker.
For Maximum Return with 100% Security—
Invest in the
COMMONWEALTH
Security LOAN
Money invested in this
Loan will be allocated
to important public
works such as schools,
hospitals, housing,
electricity generation,
water conservation and
irrigation, railways,
roads, harbours and
other projects essen-
tial to civic progress
and the development
of agriculture, indus-
try and commerce.
Your investment will
help!
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury,
235L20.94
The Honeysuckle and the
Bee
by Judith
wright
LONG ago I spent two days
in Ellangowrie, on the
blacksoil plains. I was on
my way from the south
to the north; and as the mail-
car from the south came into
Ellangowrie on that Monday
evening the grey clouds burst
and the big rain began.
Mr. Trackson, of the mail-
services, pulled into the side of
the road outside the green-tiled
bar of the Grand Commercial,
and I put my coat over my head
and fled into the entrance while
he piled my wet suitcases after
me. “No chance of getting away
in the morning if this keeps up,”
he cried as he made for his
garage.
I looked round the entrance
of the ’Grand Commercial. It
was high-ceilinged, it was
gloomy, it smelled of beer and
lino-polish. Nobody was in the
office. The bell would not ring.
I knocked on the inside door
of the bar.
At last a head appeared; the
head, it seemed, of Mrs. Callnan,
the licensee’s wife. She had a
£reat deal of grey hair wrapped
in coils, the compressed mouth
of one who disapproves of strong
drink but must conquer dis-
approval in order to live, and an
eye that did not trust young
women travelling alone. But at
last she consented to go into the
office and book me in for the
night.
“You’ll be going on in the
morning?” she inquired. The
implication was that I had
better.
“If the rain stops,” I said.
“I’m booked on the mail-car for
the north.”
She preceded me up the
stairs, but looked round and saw
that I was not carrying my lug-
gage. “You’ll have to bring that
up yourself. Mr. Callnan’s in
the hospital, and I’ve got the
rheumatism. And the yardman’s
away.”
Obediently, with difficulty, I
carried the suitcases. The room,
which opened with a creaking
sound and had an enormous key,
was dark and loomed with
darker furniture; a black iron
bed occupied a corner, French-
windows opened on to the bal-
cony’s curlicued iron railings.
“Dinner’s in ten minutes.
You’ll hear the gong,” said Mrs.
Callnan (this was an understate-
ment); and departed.
On the bedside-table lay a
Mission Bible, a tract on temper-
ance, two discarded hairpins ; in
the top drawer was an empty
whisky-bottle and a mass of
screwed-up betting-tickets. The
local races, it seemed, had been
on last week. The view from the
balcony was draped in rain. The
gong had the note of a summons
to war; the walls of my room
vibrated with it like a beehive
touched by the hand.
In the huge shadowy dining-
room, curtained in dark-green
and slippery underfoot with
lavishly-polished linoleum, the
tables were all set and the nap-
kins folded in immaculate lily-
shapes in the tumblers; but I
was the only guest. The silence
seemed full of ghastly presences.
I tried to get into conversation
with the wan, dark maid, and
found out her name, was Dolores
Del Rio Jackson, but I got no
further. The dinner, evidently
cooked by Mrs. Callnan, had all
her air of reluctantly conceding
a point to insatiable human
nature. I went to bed, while the
rain drummed heavily on the
iron roof and poured down the
raw blue-and-white wall oppo-
site, where the street-light illumi-
nated an advertisement for pills.
About ten-o’clock voices
approached along the passage-
ways, and I recognised the sound
of one of the prison-keys turn-
ing in a lock across the way,
while directions from Mrs. Call-
nan indicated the hour of break-
fast. Evidently I had a fellow-
victim. Presently, bathed,
changed and unpacked (all which
operations were plain to hear)
he creaked down on a bed
apparently the twin of my own,
addressed to it a word or two,
and in a subdued voice began
to sing “Mother Machree.” I
went to sleep.
TN the morning, rain. I looked
-*• out in despair. Up and down
the road I saw no cars, no vehicle
was visible but a baker’s cart
with a spiritless horse, his hooves
balled thick with black mud. I
left my breakfast as late as pos-
sible, and as I went into the
dining-room I met my unseen
companion coming out. His face
was large, sallow, slightly egg-
stained and, I thought, dismayed.
I spent as much of the morn-
ing as I could in exploring the
resources of the main street. It
was paved only for a couple of
hundred yards each way, and the
state of the footpaths outside
this area was forbidding. Within
access, I found the local barber ;
Tony Moros’s cafd (the Blue-
bird Inn), where pink crepe-paper
streamers quarrelled with the
orange paint of the chairs and
tables, and sad flies stuck to the
sides of glass sugar-basins; a
newsagency where I bought, in
desperation, quantities of paper-
backs and cheap magazines;
and Domes’ Emporium, almost
empty of customers, where I
loitered from counter to counter,
suspected by.salesmen and sales-
women, who trailed me stealth-
ily. In the centre of the shop,
high in a polished box, sat the
cashier, a sneering spider in a
web of wires along which, this
sad morning, no cash went spin-
ning to keep her busy ; the con-
jecture in her eyes as she gazed
down from a position so superior
drove me out at last. I loitered
on my way, longing for lunch.
At the garage, to which I
picked my way through black
splashing puddles, Mr. Trackson
offered no hope at all. “Set in
for a week,” was his opinion. As
for travelling, there were cars
stuck up all the way from Dubbo
to Cunnamulla.
At lunch, my companion sat
on the opposite side of the room
with his back to me. I spent
the afternoon reading magazines
until I felt as though I had eaten
too much cheap nougat. This
gave me an idea, and I went out
again and searched Tony Moros’s
counters for some kind of
supplement to Mrs. Callnan’s
gravestone cooking. Chewing-
gum, all-day suckers, liquorice-
bats, bullseyes, chocolate-frogs
and toffees wilted under the
weather into many-colored tears.
I finally bought a large bag of
vividly-colored jujubes, and after
a renewed search of the news-
agency found a small dusty
volume entitled “Teach Your-
self Hebrew.”
“Is there anything to do
here?” I asked the coral-lipped
girl as I paid her.
“Pictures on Friday and Sat-
urday. The races —but we’ve just
had them. There’s a whist-drive
in aid of the Ladies’ Aid next
week.”
“But this is only Tuesday,” I
said, “and surely the rain won’t
last until next week.”
“Well, then.” She thought
hard, really anxious to help.
“There’s a lady the other side
of town has a lovely collection
of crochet pieces. Crochet she
has, and ferns. You’d be sur-
prised.”
When I went back my un-
known companion had evi-
dently given the beer best for
the time being. From the room
opposite came his entire reper-
toire of songs. We had “Mother
Machree” three times, “Silver
Threads Among the Gold,”
“Oh Promise Me,” and “Faith-
ful Forever.” After that,
“Mother Machree” again. I
found it difficult to concentrate
on the first steps towards teach-
ing myself Hebrew.
DY coincidence, when the
dinner-gong sent out its
apocalyptic uproar, our doors
opened simultaneously and we
met face to face. Until now
( Continued, on page 34)


I
a
■Mi
'v* - '"v'l
L ’ * -«A <
&■ f r: k f
mm
i
whday
S£p T£to
Ah! Here’s the gift of
Gillette Superspeed
Shaving with its rich re-
word of faster,smoother
shaving every morning!
In these handsome Gillette
Razor Sets, ranging in price
from 9/6 to 40/-, he finds
the perfect team for perfect
shaving! A quick-action
Gillette Razor . . . keen
Blue Gillette Blades in the
quick-feed Dispenser. The
razor twists open; the new
blade slides from the Dis-
penser and in the space of
seconds Father begins his
new era of Superspeed
Shaving. Thanks to you!
Gillette Set No. 54
Tko fomoui "Rocket
Sot" centolm quick*
action Gil lotto Razor
and a /.-Blade quick-
teed Dispenser. 9/4.
Gillette Set No. 58
Elegant red leatherette
case containing quick-
action Aristocrat Junior
Razor and a quick-feed
10-Blade Dispenser. 27/6.
m
tte
lie
G
fit*
6 A*
'
m
Q
il
?tt
e-fy
“a?
OR
m
mm
esi
CD
Gillette Set No. 66
Velvet-lined, lizard-
grained case holds a
quick - action Gillette
Aristocrat Razor and
quick - feed 10 - Blade
Dispenser. 40/-.
Quick-feed Dispensers
containing 10 or 20
Blue Gillette Blades
sd
All good Fathers deserve
Gillette 'jptjtw&eetf SHA VING!
PH7
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON $
osulijvan
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C.. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY ,
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Want*
To buy copy of Central Australia,
by C. T. Madigan, published by
Oxford University Press. —6129.
To buy copy of Outback Occupa-
tions, by Charles Shaw.—6l3o.
Words of poem “Rosalind,” by
Hubert Church. —6131.
To buy A Hundred Pounds, a
novel by James Brunton Stephens.
—6132.
Copy of poem by Henry Lawson
in which the following lines
appear:—
Just as in southern climes they give
The hard-up rhymer figures.
—6133.
To buy copy of As It Was in the
Beginning, by Dulcie Deamer.^—6l36.
Copies of scripts of Australian
plays produced by Bert Bailey, par-
ticularly “The Sport front Hollow
Log F1at.”—6137.
Does Anybody Know?
Name of Sydney firm able to
replace the worn porcelain-lining of
cylinders of a high-pressure pump?
—6134.
Biographical details concerning
Christopher J. Coveny, an early Aus-
tralian etcher? —6135.
Information Sought
I suffer very much with hives during
the early summer months. Cause and.
cure ?
The disorder is an inflammatory
affection. There is usually some
irritation, which is increased by
friction and physical extremes. In
certain subjects the initial eruption
begins after eating an excess of acid
foods; shellfish, tomatoes, straw-
berries, oatmeal, etc., precipitate the
attack in tlmse of fair or acid type.
Curtail condiments and heating foods,
avoid extremes in the daily routine,
and indulge in a warm soda-bath at
night. Dab equal parts liquid witch-
hazel and calamine - lotion over
affected parts twice daily for relief
of irritation. Calcium- or lime-salts
may be taken internally if thin-
blooded or anaemic; diet demands
attention in the latter case.
* * * *
(7) Can a married man leave Aus-
tralia without the consent of his
wife? (2) Sho'uld she refuse permis-
sion, can she appeal to any authority
for a passport not to be issued ? (3)
Is there any obligation for anyone
under Australian law to apply for a
passport before leaving Australia ?
(1) Married applicants for Austra-
lian passports are asked to furnish
the consent of their spouse to the
issue of such passports. (2) It is the
established practice that, where an
applicant’s spouse has not expressly
consented to the issue of a passport,
the spouse is notified of the applica-
tion, and, if residing in the same
State as the applicant, is given two
weeks’ notice of the Customs Depart-
ment’s intention to issue a passport
and advised that, if he or she believes
that good reasons exist for desiring
to prevent the applicant from leaving
Australia, private legal advice should
be sought as to what legal remedies
are available for that purpose. If
the parties are residing in different
States the period of notice given is
three weeks. (3) No. However, the
immigration laws of other countries
usually require anyone seeking to
enter their territory to produce
passports; so that shipping- and air-
lines will not as a rule allot berths
without seeing passports.
* * * *
(I) What proportion of cement,
sand and stone should be used in
making a concrete fishpond ? (2) Any
special preparations to obtain a
complete watertight po-nd ?
(1) A mixture consisting of one-
part of cement to two-parts of slean
sand and three-parts of stone or
metal of fin.-gauge should be used
to obtain a dense, watertight con-
crete. (2) Before putting in the fish
the pond should be filled with water
in which a small amount of alum has
been dissolved, and allowed to stand
for three or four days; this treatment
should be repeated twice, and the
pond then thoroughly cleaned with
fresh-water. Otherwise trouble may
be experienced by the lime from the
cement affecting the fish; the alum-
treatment prevents lime from getting
into the solution.
* * * *
(i) At what period were spectacles
first used? (2) What are bifocals ?
(5) When were they first made?
(1) As early as 1266 Roger Bacon,
in his Opus Majus, demonstrated the
use of a segment of a glass sphere
for magnifying writing. A portrait
of Cardinal Ugone in a church at
Trevuso, painted in 1352, shows two
mounted lenses with their handles
riveted together fixed in front of his
eyes. The invention of printing in
the middle of the 15 th century
stimulated the demand for spectacles,
and the trade in them grew rapidly,
especially in North Italy and South
Germany. No record is available of
the beginning of the optical-trade in
England, but a charter was granted
by Charles I to the Spectacle Makers’
Guild in 1629. (2) Lenses of which
one portion has a higher power than
the remainder. (3) About 1760, for
Benjamin Franklin.
Brief Answers
K.McK.: According to the records
of the N.S.W. Department of
Prisons, no one was executed at
Bathurst jail on Feb. 24, 1861; there
were no executions there between
Nov. 3, 1859, and Oct. 23, 1862.
.... J.S.P.: Question too vague.
Suggest you attempt to state the
problem more precisely, and send
it to Mr. R. J. Gillings at Sydney
Teachers’ College, who conducts a
Problems Bureau in connection with
the Mathematical Association
H.F.: The Witch’s Thorn, by Ruth
Park, was published by Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, in 1951
F. The Anatomy of Biblio-
mania was written by Holbrook
Jackson, and was republished by
Faber and Faber; London, in 1950.
. ...W.M.G.: See Towards an Aus-
tralian Drama, by Leslie Rees....
A.L.D.: Suggest that you communi-
cate with Mr. B. H. Molesworth,
Director of Talks, Australian Broad-
casting Commission, 264 Pitt-street,
Sydney H.M.F.: The poem “1
Have Seen Great Waterbirds” was
written by Nancy Keesing, and
appears in her collection of poems
Imminent Summer, published by the
Lyre Bird Writers, Sydney, in 1951.
. ...G.F.G.: Dal Stivens, Australian 7
author, was born at Blayney (N.S.W.)
in 1916, and was educated at West
Wyalong (N.S.W.), and later at
Barker College, Hornsby (N.S.W.).
. . ..W.L.: Donald Macdonell, one-
time N.S.W. Chief-Secretary, and
general-secretary of the Australian
Workers’ Union, died on October 22,
1911 W.K.McA.: (1) Fellowship
of Australian Writers, Box 3448,
G. Sydney. (2) United States
Information Service, 46-48 Margaret-
street, Sydney. (3) Obtainable from
John Sands’ Systems, 374 George-
street, Sydney. (4) Society of Artists,
166 Phillip-street, Sydney E.W.P.:
That handbook was written by H. A.
Lindsay. His address is 110 Cross-
road, Highgate (5.A.)... .J. 8.:
Authors and Printers’ Dictionary,
edited by F. Howard Collins, pub-
lished by Oxford University Press.
. ...C.O’G.: Psychiatry Today, by
David Stafford-Clark, published by
Penguin Books R.H.8.: Animals
and Man, by David Katz A.A.:
Information required will be found
in pamphlet “Cacao as a Crop for
the Owner-manager in Papua and
New Guinea,” by F. C. Henderson,
obtainable from the Department of
Agriculture, Port Moresby, Papua.
. ...R.H.T.: Information will be
found in The Silversmith’s Handbook,
which can be consulted at the Public
Library of N.S.W., Macquarie-street,
Sydney... .C.M.C.: David McKee
Wright’s “A Crown of Sonnets”
appeared on the “Red Page” of The
Bulletin of February 19, 1920....
W.C.C.: Jiu Jitsu, by F. P. Lowell
(18s. 6d.), Boxing for Schools, by
Hankinson and Faulkner (215.) and
Boxing, by E. L. Haislet (18s. 6d.),
all obtainable from Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh - street,
Sydney... .J.D.M.: Provided car is
kept for personal use, pension not '
affected C.S.: Adlai Stevenson
was named after his grandfather, a j
U.S. Vice-President. Adlai (“my
righteousness”) is in Chronicles
1:27-29.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.L.8.: We leg-roped Susan and
penned her in the basket R.E.E.:
It will not be “the latest thing to
make the news” 8.G.: Sorry to
note that “even the dogs are feeling
the pinch” J.G.: “I really am
under no illusion about them.”
Neither are we A.E.8.: The
fellow who disliked all highbrows
“with a hate venomous, calcine” was
deported... .R.H.C.: Your rabbit-
trapper can’t set his traps in our
columns... .A.W.8.: Tale of the
peregrinating perambulator belongs
to that class of material that gets
nowhere R. 8.: Well, here’s
hoping that you’ll live to be 100:
I’m married again at seventy-five:
And know what it is to be really alive!
’Tis lovely, delicious, delightful, tip-top-i
I’m sure its sweet pleasures will not ever
stop!
P.P.: Those turbines are
rumbling and roaring away in the
depths of the basket... .J.A.H.:
When last sighted that ship was still
plunging onward in the dark:—
Fearless of the raging storm.
O’er the billows lightly borne.
H.R.M.: “You might find them
usable by your good selves.” We
didn’t... .S.S.: Somehow we
managed to carry on despite all the
“rolling thunder,” “vivid lightning-
nashe.l” and “sibilant hiss of the rain”
about us W.D.: Hardly a week
passes that we do not receive at
least a dozen verses about the “sweet
peace” that exists “far from the
haunts of man” R.W.M.: That
style of writing has been out of
fashion for at least half-a-century.
D.G.C.: Suggest you buy a stout
dog-chain F.P.: What the ghost
of Captain Cook thinks of present-
day Kurnell (N.S.W.) might be
worth reading to the local progress-
association H.W.S.: That is the
third mob of buffaloes that have
stampeded along '**■ the editorial-
corridor this week H.L.: No
different from countless other wind-
ing old bush-tracks D.K.R.:
Left him still standing like stone
“down in the wilderness alone”
G.F.S.: We have met that old girl
before A.E.D.: Try us with some-
thing with more meat on the bones.
N.J.: It is always pleasant to
see love’s young dreams realised even
though such yarns are off our beat.
F.S.: That sort of yarn is
always heavy going, particularly
because there is always a strong
feeling that the writer doesn’t know
his subject.. . .A.C.D.: Such miracu-
lous conversions never occur in real
life G.8.5.G.: An outmoded
comic style of writing that may have
found an odd corner in the old days.


Ready for Next Time
Operation Floodlift
By C. McNEIL
OUT at Haddon Rig, the
G. B. S. Falkiner station
in nor’-western N.S.W.,
the prize rams were
muddy, but safely crowded
together in the wool-shed.
The station buildings stood
out in a brown sea 50 miles wide,
and on the roofs of some were
white-painted messages asking
for food to be dropped.
Deep under water were the
acres of two-inch grass that
sheep like to nibble. Some
sheep were drowned, anchored
by their wool on barbed-wire
fences . . . still, in the moving
water.
This was early last March,
when the rivers were up from
Warren to the coast.
The water, thousands of
square miles of it, was smashing
down things that men had put
their lifetimes into building.
Where the water was still, it was
quietly sucking the veneer off
people’s furniture and warping
their older solid woods into
bends and hollows that would
never straighten out.
The total damage to property
in the floods was enormous and
will probably never be calcu-
lated. The remarkable thing was
that fewer than 30 people lost
their lives.
The number of lives the
rescue-workers saved sometimes
touched 100 a day.
To that total you could add
the huge hypothetical figure of
the men, women and children
who could have starved on
lonely rooftops if it were not for
the R.A.A.F. food - drops.
Probably the only final answer
one could reach would be how
very lucky a lot of people were.
Whatever the dreadful total
might have been, one thing is
sure —the Commonwealth and
State authorities can, on short
notice, put together an
emergency rescue-service which
would be hard to beat anywhere
in the world.
The service was not foolproof,
as those who ran it or served it
would be the first to admit.
It was sometimes weak in
communications, one of its most
vital parts. Often its communi-
cations had to depend on home-
made transmitters, and on the
length of time the radio-“hams”
could huddle over them before
they collapsed from exhaustion.
The authorities are tackling
that one, and next time should
be able to supply the “hams”
with trained reinforcements and
some form of tough, standard
gear that can be dropped by
parachute where ,it is needed,
and still work.
Again, there were the little
privately - owned planes, like
Tiger Moths and Austers, which
played a very big part in rescue-
work.
They could go where the big
planes could not. They could
land where a road or a paddock
showed above the flood and pick
up sick people and bring them
back to doctors. They could
spot low down for food-drops
for the bigger planes, and they
could drop supplies themselves.
But, although the work they
did was generally acclaimed, the
treatment the pilots of the small
planes received from the rescue-
authorities could sometimes have
been better, and this showed
another weakness in the
organisation.
In the western floods, after a
few days of continuous flying,
the pilots of the small planes
were worried. Their craft were
burning oil. They needed main-
tenance, but after flying them
from dawn to dark the pilots
were too tired to do the things
which should have been done.
For a period they even had
to pay for their own petrol.
The authorities took that worry
off their hands —but who would
pay for what they were doing to
their little planes?
The planes started to go to
pieces suddenly. The propeller
of one dropped off at 1000 ft.,
but the pilot managed to bring
her down into a paddock. He
and his two passengers got out
unhurt.
Another crash-landed on a
road, and again they were safe.
A third pilot had to put down
with engine-trouble and was
missing for a day before he was
found to be all right.
The problem was similar to
that of the radio-“hamS'’ —it
came about when amateurs
helped the professionals. With
a little liaison and thought,
neither problem should occur
next time.
But probably no disaster-
service will ever be completely
foolproof, because things like
floods and bushfires don’t act
in a predictable way.
Rescuers can only do their
best to cope with what
emergency brings them, and
they certainly coped effectively
with the worst floods N.S.W.
has ever known.
There were two distinct types
of flooding. One was the roaring
nightmare of water in confined
spaces near the coast, at
Singleton and Maitland.
This called for Army-
ducks and police-boats in
a hurry, and the rescue-
organisation got them
there in time.
There were similar
parts in the western floods.
The Castlereagh River,
which is normally dry
pebbles and sand for miles,
rose into something that
wrecked Gilgandra. It left
a 25ft. hole in Morris-
street, with two cars at the
bottom, and it knocked off
most of the top floor of
the Royal Hotel and sat it
down in the yard.
But, generally, the
western floods moved
slowly, spreading out over
hundreds of miles of flat
plains.
These inland seas pro-
vided a new problem for the
rescue - organisation. It was
solved from the air.
Dubbo, as its own flood
receded, became the nerve-
centre of aid to other western
districts. It was an ideal place
to watch the rescue-organisation
coping with something it had
not met before.
Dubbo airstrip began to look
like part of a war. There were
a lot of R.A.A.F. Dakotas, a
Navy helicopter, and occasion-
ally even a fighter-plane came
into service as a quick messenger
to bring small things that were
needed urgently from service-
installations at Williamtown,
Richmond or Nowra.
R.A.A.F. officers took over
one of the Dubbo airstrip’s
buildings and set up a big flat
table in it. The \short notice
“Ops.” was clipped over
“Passengers’ Lounge” above the
door.
It was six - o’clock one
morning, and the Dakotas, with
the R.A.A.F. markers on their
wings, and their doors removed,
were lined up at the side of the
strip.
Paratroops, with red berets,
blue overalls and black gaiters,
belts and boots, were working
in the food-dump on the air-
strip, pulling the tarpaulins off
stacks of storpedoes.
Assembled, these look like
bombs. The paratroops were
showing people how to assemble
them, how to pack food in the
big middle canister, and how to
fix the pointed nose that would
crumple when it hit the ground
and cushion the shock.
The last part of the storpedo,
the parachute tail (it looks like a
circular knapsack with a short
length of cord hanging from its
middle), the paratroops fixed
themselves.
In huge tents near by were
piled cases of food —everything
from bully-beef to canned sieved
vegetables for babies.
Air Force, Army, police, and
people who had come from
miles around worked there
carting the food out and packing
the storpedoes.
Into some went packets of
yeast and bags of flour for places
where they could still bake their
own bread if they could get the
ingredients.
Most of the storpedoes got a
mixture of tinned-food, medical
supplies, fresh fruit and anything
else that might be handy. The
paratroops claimed that eggs
would survive a drop if they
were properly packed in a
storpedo.
“Sure! The bomb causes it—and it's retrospective
to eighteen-ninety .”
After a final check on -the
ropes that laced a storpedo
together, paratroops noted its
contents on its side with chalk
and slid it into a growing
stack.
The storpedoes were destined
for isolated centres and towns
where a number of people were
gathered in one place.
Near by, people were putting
together food-sacks for the
individual families stuck on
roofs, with nothing to look at
but miles of muddy water. Into
these sacks went loaves of bread,
or tinned-food. The morning
sun already had a kick in it, and
the people at the airstrip sweated
while they worked.
About half-past-six a blue
R.A.A.F. bus arrived, and the
Dakotas’ pilots and crews
climbed out. There were only a
couple of moustaches among the
lot of them.
They went first to a little
kitchen the womenfolk of
Dubbo had set up, for a cuppa.
The brew seemed to be on there
almost 24 hours a day.
Then the pilots went to the
Ops.-room for their flight-plans.
These were compiled from
messages seen painted on roofs
late the day before, from the
wisps of information which
“hams” had pulled out of the
air, and from local people who
might know that Bert Harris,
who lived eight miles out on the
Narromine-road, would be run-
ning short of tucker.
The pilots waited till their
planes were loaded, and then
moved over to them. They
revved their engines and one by
one taxied out to take-off.
Inside a plane with the crew
were the food-droppers (usually
paratroops, with Army or police
helpers), an occasional reporter
and photographer from one of
the papers, and sometimes a
local identity who was to act as
guide for some particular drop.
As the plane waited to take-
off everyone on board was asked
to move up the front to get the
weight near the wings, where it
had to be. The storpedoes and
foodbags were heavy, and each
plane carried as much as it
could.
The Dakota roared down the
runway and somehow left the
ground, and then those inside
spread themselves back along
its length, sitting on the stacks
of storpedoes along the middle
of the plane, looking out the
windows.
In places they could see where
the rivers had left broad yellow
beaches of sand across the
paddocks. Half-mile lengths of
broken fences stretched like
arrows pointing the way the
rivers had gone. Sometimes
there was a railway-line twisted
over and over on itself or
hanging in long loops over what
had been embankments.
The plane was nearing the
first dropping-point, and down
near the open door the para-
troops were busy.
They tied ropes round them-
selves first, fixing the loose ends
to hooks in the plane. They
gave themselves enough rope to
look out the door but not fall
out.
One of them pulled the thin
cord from the parachute of a
storpedo. He bent this on to a
rope hanging by a bowline from
a steel wire which ran the length
of the plane at the ceiling.
The plane began to circle.
Down below, in the miles of
brown water, was Gular, a little
siding near Gulargambone.
The plane spiralled down and
down towards it, until the pilot
found the dropping-marker. He
straightened out and after a
minute turned, and came back
straight at the marker.
The plane was about 400 ft. up.
A bell rang near the door three
times, and the wind whistled on
the pointed nose of the storpedo
as the paratroops slid it into
the doorway.
They waited. Squatted against
the wall of the plane opposite
the door was the kicker of the
team. His boots were against
the parachute bag of the
storpedo. The bell rang sharply
once and he kicked with both
feet, and the other two para-
troops guided the storpedo out
the door. There was a bang
and a rattle and they were
pulling in the trailing rope
through the door.
The plane banked up, and the
parachute and storpedo could be
seen floating down beside the
marker.
With one storpedo gone, the
plane was 2001 b. lighter. There
were 19 of them still to be
dropped, as well as a hill of
food-sacks near the door . . .
When the dropping was
finished, the plane had been in
the air four hours. It headed
back to 'Dubbo to load-up again.
As the pilot and crew and
hangers-on climbed out, a truck
pulled up beside the door with
the next load of food.
The pilot went over to the
little kitchen for a cuppa before
he got his next flight-plan.
At the kitchen he met a
colleague who’d had an odd
close call. He’d been out
dropping a load of bedding-
loose mattresses and blankets in
rolls, at a town where people
had not slept dry for a week.
He had found the marker and
had got down to tree-top height
for the run-in. Out went the
mattresses —and then one of
them wrapped itself neatly
around the Dakota’s tail-plane.
Just when the pilot had to
give it all its throttle for the steep
climb away from the drop, the
plane lost its stability and was in
trouble. Somehow or other he
got it to climb, and when he was
high in the air again he began
to throw the plane about in an
effort to dislodge the mattress.
It stuck there.
Then someone had yelled out
happily, “She’s busted! ” Kapok
was streaming from the mattress,
and when it had lost its stuffing
the mattress was just a few
harmless shreds of ticking. All
was well . . .
A third pilot soon joined them,
and he had a story, too.
He had dropped a storpedo
right beside a farmhouse, and
then circled back to see that the
people had got it all right.
He had circled three times
before anyone appeared. Then
he saw an elderly man standing
several feet from the storpedo
with his hands behind his back,
looking at it intently, as if
saying to himself: “Now, what
is it, and where did it come
from, and when will it go off?”
He had bolted back into his
house when the plane roared
overhead for the last time . . .
When the Dakotas came in
from their final run of the day
it was usually dark, and they
landed with their lights. As the
crews stepped from the planes
the R.A.A.F. mechanics took
over.
Red-eyed and tired, the crews
got into the bus and were driven
back to the R.A.A.F. station in
Dubbo. But lights burned at the
airstrip for most of the night.
People were getting food ready
for the next day’s drops, or
working in the Ops.-room,
planning where the drops would
be.
After a few days the pilots
and their crews became experts
at the art of food-dropping.
They could guarantee to drop
a bag of bread within a few feet
of the marker nine times out of
ten —and they made their drops
only by dead-reckoning.
One morning when the
R.A.A.F. bus arrived there were
murmurs of “What hope have
you got!” A sleek Lincoln-
bomber had appeared overnight
among the peaceful Dakotas.
It had come all the way from
Amberley, in Queensland, to do
(Continued on page 34)


m
k
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WAMCER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
\ JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
\ WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
k \ SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.156.12A
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HERBERT MOONEY.—TAKE
NOTICE that VALENTIA JUNE EMILY
MOONEY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2500 of 1956 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 4th day of
November 1956 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from E. G.
SAYEQH, Solicitor, 183 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN WILLIAM SCOTT late of
Sydney and Melbourne.—TAKE NOTICE
that IRENE OLIVE SCOTT has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2582 of 1954
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 4th November 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from WM. PARKER SON & CO., Soli-
citors, of 77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE DOUGLAS COAD late of
the Roval Australian Navy.—TAKE
NOTICE that LILLIAN FLORENCE
COAD has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2284 of 1955 (Federal Matrimonial
Cause applying the law of Tasmania)
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for two years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 26th day of October 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from R. H. RICHARDS, Soli-
citor, 2nd Floor, Manchester Unity Build-
ing, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, in
the State of New South Wales. —J-
DOUGHAN, Registrar,
DIGESTIVE TROUBLES
COLITIS, DIVERTICULITIS
TAKE CHEKBA TABLETS
Specially prepared from an old
proven herbal recipe. For chronic
conditions. Postal note for 12/6 will
provide one month’s treatment.
ALLAN MURRAY PTY. LTD.,
I Maloney St., Mascot.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Round-one of the three-year-
old clashes between the top-
class colts resulted in a com-
fortable win for Kingster in the
Hobartville Stakes, at Warwick
Farm. He was once again too
solid for Aboukir. In finishing
third Knave indicated that he
will soon be a formidable
challenger, and racegoers are
awaiting with special interest
the appearance of the crack New
Zealanders.
Knave was a bit burly when
he went out for the Hobartville,
but Kingster and Aboukir were
in solid racing-condition. All
three are expected to contest the
Canterbury Guineas (September
3) and the Rosehill Guineas
(September 17) as lead-ups to
the A.J.C. Derby. On Warwick
Farm displays, it wouldn’t
surprise should Knave prove the
best stayer. Trained by
Maurice McCarten for New
Zealand owner and thorough-
bred-breeder T. C. Lowry,
Knave is by Faux Tirage (imp.)
from Trick by Defaulter, who
won races at up to 2\m. in both
New Zealand and Australia.
Sir Sydney Snow and Allen C.
Lewis acquired in New Zealand
the colt now racing as Borgia.
By Timanova (imp.) from
Damask, Borgia had a stylish
win in Warwick Farm Second
Three-year-old Maiden and he
might go on to much better
things, as he has breeding
indicating staying-power. The
owners liked the background of
this colt mainly because he is
closely related to Peshawar,
who won the 1952 Caulfield Cup
for them. The colt’s dam is by
Spiral from Curtain by
Thespian. Scotch Gift, a winner
of four New Zealand races, is
a brother to Borgia.
Two years ago Gallant
Archer, with 9st., won the New-
castle Cup, starting at 5 to 4.
He is engaged in this year’s
Cup, to be run on Saturday
week, but Bill Cook, who had
an easy win on the six-year-old
horse in the August Handicap
at Warwick Farm, won’t
be able to take the Newcastle
mount, as he has other bookings
that afternoon at Canterbury.
Gallant Archer is firmer for the
Metropolitan, in which he has
8.11, but he has been seen at
his best in races of up to Ilf.
No horse that finished behind
him at the Farm would have the
bolter’s chance in the 13-
furlongs Metrop.
Columbus had failed in prior
starts on Sydney tracks, but,
well ridden by Mulley, he
had an easy win for trainer and
part-owner A. D. Webster and
R. L. Buckenham at Warwick
Farm. Columbus is by Marco
Polo II (imp.) from Tira by
Tweed II (imp.) from Every
Port by Winning Hit. He is
closely related to Fast Passage
and Conclusion, two winners
of the New Zealand Cup (2m.),
so with further experience he
could prove a stayer.
Apprentice J. Gallagher, who
can ride at the 6.7 limit, is one
of Sydney’s up - and - coming
horsemen. He is being well
tutored by Rosebery trainer
Fred Hood, a capable jockey in
his day. Gallagher was given
a warm hand when he rode a
Jim Pike finish on Triclinium, to
beat Sellwood on the favorite,
My Hali, in the Warwick Farm
Campbelltown Handicap.
Gallagher reserved Triclinium
for a final burst, and he won
cleverly.
One of the cheap lots of the
1954 Melbourne yearling-sales
was the colt by Chantry (imp.)
from Floy Bunsby, secured for
80gns. Now racing as Poacher,
he won the mile First Belhaven
Handicap for three-year-olds at
Flemington on Saturday, start-
ing at 66 to 1. Poacher comes
from the family which produced
Playboy, a winner of the A.J.C.
Derby, and Hoyle (Valley Cup).
Carey Lad, winner of the
Second Belhaven Handicap at
Flemington, was an even
greater outsider, 100 to 1. His
sire, Carey, was placed in the
Melbourne Cup.
Most impressive wins at
Flemington were Cromis’s length
to the good over Coppice and
three-year-old Arlunya in the
7-furlongs J. J. Liston Stakes
(w.f.a.), and Baroda Beam’s
brilliant finish in easily landing
the 10-furlongs Anniversary
Handicap from Darent and
Cathbar. Pure Fire will soon do
better than his disappointing
fifth behind Cromis.
Highlight of Warwick Farm
racing on this coming Saturday
will be the £l5OO Warwick Stakes
(7 furlongs; w.f.a. with allow-
ances). Interest will centre
mainly on the display by one of
New Zealand’s best horses in
years, Somerset Fair, favorite for
the Epsom.
Somerset Fair isn’t likely to
have things all his own way in
the Stakes. He’ll be up against
Prince Cortauld, a formidable
rival, also bred in the Dominion.
Pride of Egypt, Advocate and
“Come out and fight!"
Ray Ribbon are one or two
other considerations.
Tarien won the Warwick
Stakes last year and in 1953 ;
San Domenico in 1950 and in
1951. Earlier dual-winners were
Johnnie Jason and Chatham;
but New Zealander Limerick
had three successive victories
(1927-8-9) in all of which he was
ridden by Maurice McCarten.
One of the best races of the series
was that of 1930, when Amounis
(6-to-l), ridden by Victorian
Harold Jones, narrowly downed
Phar Lap (Jim Pike), a 10-to-9
favorite, with Nightmarch (Roy
Reed) third. They were three of
the greatest winners on the Aus-
tralian turf.
Others to compete in that out-
standing 1930 Warwick Stakes
were Fujisan and Chide. In those
years the Stakes was decided at
one mile; the distance was
reduced to 7 furlongs in 1938.
A few weeks after that defeat
Phar Lap started at 11-to-8-on
and had an easy win in the Mel-
bourne Cup, carrying in the big
Cup 9.12, a record weight-
carrying performance for a four-
year-old.
‘* * *
Following the success of the
U. Scotts the previous week,
another —square-gaited daughter
Sandan —proved her sire’s ver-
satility with a sterling win in
the Trotters’ Handicap at
Harold Park on Saturday night.
Running out the 15|f. in 4.155,
she clipped 2fsec. off the track-
record held by Krakatoa. Her
mile-gait of 2.11 f was only one-
fifth sec. slower than the best
gait for a trotter on the track —
Believe Me recorded a gait of
2.1 If over the 13ff. in 1953.
Since coming here from N.Z.
the mare has proved her ability
as a dual-gaiter with good
exhibitions of pacing around the
show-tracks; but her potential
as a trotter has never been in
doubt.
Another to win on the bit was
the Temora - trained Percy’s
Elect. The Springfield Globe
horse raced sluggishly at his last
outing, giving Harpley a hard
drive. On Saturday, he was
given a solid preliminary, and
when the tapes were released he
bounced to the front for an all-
the-way-win. His dam, Lettie’s
First, is by One Step from
Queen Commerce by John
Cleve from a mare by Com-
mercial (imp.). He’s one of the
up-and-coming who’ll help put
the spring in the Spring
Carnival.
+ +
Forty - thousand Enzedders
saw the home side defeat the
Aussie Rugby Union tourists
16-8 in the Test at Wellington’s
Athletic Park. The All Blacks
scored three tries to one, but the
game was even and hard-fought
throughout. Features were the
clash between wingers Jarden
and Stapleton ; a brilliant solo-
try by Aussie left-winger Garth
Jones; and the overall strength
of the weightier All Black
forwards.
In Sydney’s Rugby Union
grade-round Easts again won all
four grades and the Club
Championship. Their firsts were
too strong for Eastwood, 22-3.
In other games, Gordon came
through a tough match against
Drummoyne 14-11 ; Parramatta
again showed belated good form
in a 14-all draw with Randwick ;
Manly stoushed semi-finalists
St. George, 19-6; and Uni-
versity’s full-back, Dowse, tallied
14 points in their 32-9 romp
against Norths.
* * *
It’s Melbourne, Collingwood,
Geelong .and Essendon in the
final V.F.L. “four” ; the Dons,
just outside most of the season,
getting just inside at the right
time, with Footscray Bulldogs’
snout nudging ’em 0.6 per cent,
away as the door slammed shut!
As they needed to, the Bulldogs
chewed-up North, 14.11-5.5, but
the Dons’ win over Hawthorn
(13.14-7.8) was enough. With
’Wood beating Fitzroy, 7.17-7.7,
and Geelong being blued by
Carlton (10.6-8.12), ’Wood,
which had slipped to third place
the week before, gets back its
double chance. Melbourne, on
top since the second round,
easily stopped there, overcoming
South (12.22-4.7), and Richmond,
in promising form for next year,
posted the day’s top-score,
against St. Kilda (19.23-6.7). It’s
Geelong and Essendon on Satur-
day, loser out for the season.
South Aus. footballers running
on to Subiaco Oval to meet
W.A. must have been heartened
by sustained cheer-leading from
a small section among the crowd.
It was an Adelaide Teachers’
Training College contingent
visiting Perth, who maintained
vociferous support throughout
the game. No effect. Westralia
booted 7.8 in the first quarter,
and held the Croweaters score-
less. The visitors fought back
strongly for the rest of the match
to go down 12.19 to 14.17. S.A.
hadn’t won in Perth since 1936;
they did in the return game by
three points, 14.11-14.8.
* * *
Soccer round-up in the past
week: Under floodlights in Mel-
bourne on the Tuesday, Austrian
Rapid whitewashes South China,
7-0. Rushed to Sydney, Rapid,
obviously jaded, plays Australia
the very next day, to be beaten
3-2. On the Saturday, still in
Sydney, Rapid, recuperated,
plays brilliant football to again
down China, 8-4—an even game
for three parts, with China doing
spectacular things, too. (One of
Rapid’s stars was a “mystery”
outside-right, who turned out to
be a young Dutch New Aus-
tralian playing with a second-
division Sydney club.) On Sun-
day, at Wallsend (N.S.W.), South
China beat Australia 1-0 in the
third Test, holding on grimly to
a lead established in the first
lOmin.; it thus won the Test
series 2-1.
* * *
Before a crowd of 30,000
addicts, Australian Peter Thom-
son returned a four-round card
of 284 (four under par) to finish
equal third in the Tam O’Shanter
World Golf Championship. His
prizemoney was $3175 (£A1410),
which, together with the tidy
sums he has picked-up during
the year, makes golf on a big
scale not a bad sideline—-if
you’re a Thomson.
Stroke for stroke they went to
the 36th hole, where Harry Ber-
wick (St. Michael’s) outputted
Teddy Rigney (Botany) in the
final of the N.S.W. Amateur
Championship. The pair were
level-pegging at the 35th, but
Rigney’s putting went to the
pack and he took three on the
green to give Berwick hole, game
and title.
In Victoria Hartley Mitchell
took the Victorian Amateur title
from veteran Bill Edgar, two
and one.
* * *
Australia comfortably defeated
Italy 5-0 in the Davis Cup inter-
zone final. The Eyties played
well, and in a couple of matches
took some beating; but our
chaps, Hoad in particular show-
ing great form, always were in
command. It’s U.S.A. v. Aus-
tralia in the challenge round
this Friday.
* * *
On their own Surrey home-
ground, The Oval, where they’d
bundled out Australia in the
second innings to win the fifth
“Ashes” Test in 1953, spinners
Lock and Laker similarly
bundled out South Africa in the
second innings of the fifth Test,
for England to win the series
3-2. There wasn’t a great deal
in it either way, throughout the
series. England’s bowlers, as in
Australia last season, were the
main instrument of victory; her
batsmen were again too incon-
sistent, vulnerable in particular
to Tayfield and Goddard, both
of whom took 26 wickets in the
Tests.


Potion Preferences
Thirsts Around the World
By GAVIN CASEY
IT has recently been impressed
upon me that a good deed
might be done —for a con-
sideration—by way of some
sound advice, based on fairly
wide experience, for the benefit
of amateur hosts who, during the
Olympic invasion, might other-
wise find themselves in a quite
unnecessary dilemma.
The impressing agents were
some bottle-department girls all-
of-a-tizzy because of a visit by
a lady with very long ear-rings
and an accent that suggested
she had come from further away
than the ’Loo or Bondi Junction.
What she had wanted was “a
bottle of somezing for an Aus-
trian man” —and what she got,
because the girls had as little
idea as she of what Austrians like
to drink, was a bottle of creme
de menthe.
The sticky, green concoction
seems unlikely to aid romance,
business, international under-
standing, or whatever the lady
was after, unless her particular
Austrian happened to be adol-
escent or silly. The girls should
have given their customer good,
local beer if they had any or,
failing that, whisky.
Some people like beer and
whisky better than others, but
over most of the world they are
the safe drinks. Offering them
makes nobody except wowsers
and freaks look hurt or angry,
and most men of any nationality
drink either or both with relish.
Or, of course, certain types of
wine or rum, or even gin as long
as some flavoring can be added
to take the taste away.
On the other hand, individuals
and even nations have been try-
ing for generations to complicate
simple drinking by mixing things
and doctoring them up with, ap-
parently, the unworthy aim of
producing draughts with a good
alcoholic content that taste as
much as possible like lemon-
syrup. Originally, perhaps, the
idea was that while drinking
one could feel respectable until
one had gone far enough not to
give a damn about respectability.
Through the years, in the
Frank Clune tradition of “try
anything once,” I have had a
go at hundreds of these concoc-
tions, and, for my money, none
of them tastes as good as its
individual ingredients, except,
for the first drink of the day, an
American arrangement called
whisky-sour. This, a simple com-
bination of rye, lemon-juice,
castor-sugar and ice, is perhaps
more of a mouth-wash than a
drink, but it is a mouth-wash
that does not have to be spat
out, and is as consoling to the
stomach as it is to the tonsils,
the teeth, and the epiglottis.
Mixing cocktails is, I sup-
pose, a harmless enough pastime
for the home entertainer, as long
as he doesn’t try to make people
drink them. Unfortunately most
who mix them do stand over
guests who would rather have
whisky-and-water, and compel
them to swallow furiously-
colored, indigestible, strange-
tasting liquids until they can
escape.
Even then it seems to work
out all right, because when the
plain drinkers escape they never
come back, and the man with
all the books of cocktail-recipes
soon has a circle of friends con-
fined to those with a similar
enthusiasm, and they can all
make each other sick for the rest
nf their lives by mutual agree-
ment. |
In Australia, where we still like
to kid ourselves we have hair
on our chests, there is not much
cocktail-drinking, but in the
United States it has developed
into a sort of social disease. The
dry-Martini is the favorite, and
it is astonishing how many junior
misses, young matrons and old
battleaxes cherish the opinion
that this drink is practically non-
alcoholic.
Actually, consisting of two-
thirds gin, one-third dry ver-
mouth, and nothing else except
the little water that may have
melted into it from the ice-cubes,
the Martini has a kick equal to
that of overproof straight spirits.
The friends of Marine sergeants
and heavyweight wrestlers get
anxious when they start on the
Martinis, instead of mere jungle-
juice mixed with the spirit out
of aviation instruments. The
girls stand up to them extremely
well, considering, but they
always seem to be saying, next
day, “Darling, I don’t know
what I did, and I don’t know
why I felt so funny. For the
whole four hours I never had
anything but dry-Martinis.”
The Americans became a
nation of spirit-drinkers for
much the same reasons that the
men of Australia’s far outback
favor whisky and rum. During
the period of so-called prohibi-
tion beer was too bulky and
heavy to lug about in sufficient
quantities to be worth carrying,
just as it is too bulky and heavy
for places here that might be
a thousand miles from a brewery.
While the bootleggers were
becoming the new plutocracy
in the United States, such beer
as there was deteriorated, and
when enlightened opinion again
took control of the nation, and
the liquor-stores reopened, the
rush was still for spirits, and the
beer stayed sweet, too bubbly,
and near enough to non-
alcoholic. Sydney wine-authority
Leo Buring once told me that
on a visit to America just after
prohibition had ended he saw
yvhisky proudly advertised in
a window as: “Guaranteed More
Than 10 DAYS Old!”
Since then the Yanks have
gone a long way with whisky,
and to my palate the beft in the
world (choice Scotch not ex-
cepted) is Bourbon, the 100-
proof straight corn-liquor of the
Southern States, all now well-
aged and as smooth as it is strong
and full of flavor. But they’ve
never got back to making good
beer, and when I lived among
them I used to drink a certain
amount of Heinikin’s from
Holland, Carlsberg from Den-
mark, and Black Horse from
Canada.
I also developed a taste for
Bourbon “boiler - makers” (a
iieat, two-ounce jigger of Bour-
bon, followed by a beer
“chaser”), but these, though
palatable and most encouraging
in the face of life’s woes and
troubles, should be treated with
at least as much respect as dry-
Martinis. There are good whiskies
which are less costly and power-
ful, though the Americans also
make some really cheap brands
that act like stain-remover and
taste rather worse.
Whatever we do well or badly
in Australia, we now make the
best beer in the English-speaking
world, and it is as good as they
make anywhere. England, I’m
told, was full of noble brews
“before the war,” but unfor-
tunately I only got there after
the war. In contrast with
American beer, which was too
bubjfly and too cold, the British
was always too flat and too
warm. The one thing they had
in common was that neither con-
tained enough alcohol.
The British, as everybody
knows, are staunch believers in
beer at room-temperature, and
nobody will ever convince them
that, at least in summer-time, a
few degrees lower is a good
idea. But, apparently to cater
for eccentrics and lesser breeds
without the law, they have on
some bars small taps, chastely
labelled: “Barclay’s Iced Lager.”
And iced is right!
Out of these gush a liquid that
would surely freeze solid if one
degree colder. Applied to the
lips, it turns them and the tip
of the nose blue. Taken into
the mouth, it paralyses the tongue
and forms icicles between the
teeth. Actually swallowed, it
(a) convulses the stomach with
Arctic cold and ( b ) reduces the
temperature of the whole body
to the minimum level at which
life can continue, in about four
seconds.
You never seem to see Eng-
lishmen drinking iced-lager, any
more than you see Americans
guzzling a fearful concoction
called “Rock and Rye,” which
they have on bar-shelves pre-
sumably merely as a decoration.
“Looks as if old Joe's found rum in the uranium jungle.”
This consists of a beastly great
lump of rock-candy floating
about in a bottle of rye-whisky,
and, though I came at a number
of funny ones, this idea was just
too horrifying.
I tried to encourage various
Americans to drink some, but
they' all had excuses. One from
the South, where the stuff was
invented —or first perpetrated —
assured me that it was good for
a cold. “I’d drink some for you,
but I haven’t got a cold, see?”
he told me.
The Yanks, I found, were hor-
rified by our rum-and-milk idea,
but I converted quite a few
who were game to taste it, to
the stern and silent disgust of
the bartenders. In Britain, too, it
was regarded with suspicion by
most drinkers, though there
could be few things more warm-
ing during an English winter.
As a result of goldfields
pioneering, my father and all his
Scotch-drinking friends regarded
beer as something for boys to
sip at, and the dad of a friend
of mine had a curious aversion
to the bar habits of a pal of his,
of whom he was quite fond, but
saw seldom.
“If he’s such a good chap,
why don’t you see him more
often?” asked the son.
Whispering the scandal into
the trusted ear of his offspring,
the old gentleman confided:
“He drinks rum-and-raspberry.
I don’t like to knock about too
much with a i©an who drinks
rum-and-raspberry.”
One of the problems of the
drinker who wants to go “on
the square” for a while is, of
course, that he faces the alterna-
tives of never seeing his mates,
or making a fool of himself in
bars with soft-drinks and gallons
of Bonox. Rut in bygone times
in Western Australia I had the
perfect solution to this difficulty.
If, for any reason, I wished to
forgo alcohol, I drank “porter-
gaff.”
Why nobody burst into roars
of laughter when I ordered this
stuff I never found out, but it
was seemingly regarded as
respectable by both barmaids
and friends. It consists of stout
and lemonade in about equal
quantities, and the secret of its
success as a temperance-measure
is that one must drink about 64
twelve-ounce pots of it to get
even elated, and it tastes so
horrible that nobody in his right
mind would drink more than
three.
The porter-gaff method of
moderation doesn’t work in
modern Sydney, however. I tried
it a while back, and caused con-
sternation. The barmaids don’t
know what it is. Few pubs serve
stout by the glass, except the
expensive imported varieties,
and paying the price of such in
order to murder it with lemon-
ade and suffer mild nausea would
be just too silly.
In some parts of the world
you are not allowed to drink in
a public place standing up, and
Washington, D.C., is one of
these. If you try to swallow a
beaker of booze while erect and
vertical, waiters come running
from everywhere, and you are
slammed into a chair while other
drinkers in the vicinity withdraw
to a safe distance from anyone so
depraved.
In Washington, too, you
mustn’t drink on Sundays,
though Sunday tippling is a
major sport in many American
cities. And the trouble is that
Sunday begins on the stroke of
midnight on Saturday. Any
other night you can absorb the
hdt rebellious waters until break-
fast-time if you feel like it, but
on Saturday, the world’s “night
out,” the bars slam shut like
gunfire right on the tick of the
clock.
Many years ago sermons used
to be preached and editorials
written on the deplorable Aus-
tralian “shouting” habit, which,
it was alleged, was leading the
nation to destruction. It has its
virtues, however, compared with
a system that prevails in the
more swagger bars in some over-
seas lands.
The hoi polloi everywhere
seem to stand rounds in turn,
but in the upper-income groups
in various places the party drinks
happily while the bartender
operates a sort of cash-register-
cwm-adding-machine which jots
down the cost of each round
and finally tots them up. Then
whoever is least efficient at
fumbling in his pockets cops
the lot.
I remember sadly an occasion
in New York when I was in the
unprecedented position of having
$35 and some loose' change the
day before payday. Bloated with
wealth, I went to get some dinner
at a really superior restaurant.
Before I reached the tables, I
found a party of men I knew
and liked at the bar, drinking
whisky and cocktails at about
a dollar each.
I was the mug, and two hours
later I had no dinner, no hope
of any, and just 10 cents to pay
my bus-fare home, so that I
could raid the ice-chest, sleep,
and borrow a dollar from the
wife to last me until the ghost
walked next day. You enter such
places at your own risk.
A drinkers’ habit that seems
to have died in these days of
tailor-made cigarettes was that
of rejecting a beer with too tall a
collar by twisting a cigarette-
paper into the semblance of a
small neat bow, and sticking it
to the glass in the appropriate
place with a drop of moisture.
This extremely subtle indication
of disapproval used to cause
many barmen to grind their teeth
and scowl fiendishly, but it
generally got the drink topped-
up. It was not considered as
coarse and brutal as asking if
there were room in the glass for
a “dash” and, when answered in
the affirmative, snarling, “Then
put some more beer in it!”
With spirits, I find myself
much displeased with the secre-
tive habits of many barmaids
these days. Taking a jigger
which is too small in the first
place they carefully put their
shapely forms between the cus-
tomer and the apparatus they
are handling, and when they
turn back to the drinker with a
dazzling smile there doesn’t seem
to be much in the glass.
A week or two ago, in Queens-
land, I was delighted to have
the bottle handed to me in a
manner suggesting that traces of
civilisation survive far from the
great centres of population. In
another State and another city I
knew one of the last publicans
who served spirits in this way,
and he swore it paid dividends,
though it may have been a losing
proposition if he had not had
a regular clientele.
“The first one’s a double,” he
confided to me. “About the third
one’s right size. After that they
hold their hands around the glass
while they pour, an’ what they
pour gets smaller and smaller
as they’re trying to outlast each
other.”
The drinks of non-English-
speaking countries are often ex-
cellent, like the inexpensive light
red and white table-wines of
France, and also both the vodka
of the Russians and the Poles
and the Bols that the Dutch
toss off neat, with most warm-
ing and satisfactory results. But
others seem to be diabolical, like
the slivovitz the Czechs make
with indecent haste out of
decayed stone-fruit and then
swallow as if they liked it.
But nobody like the Austrian
boy-friend of the lady with the
ear-rings need feel underprivi-
leged and become a social misfit
because he has nothing to drink
except Australian beer, Scotch
or Australian whisky, rum, and
a wide variety of Australian
wines and brandy.
They are good drinks that
harm no man who knows his
own capacity, and they would
be consumed with satisfaction
anywhere in the world.


Commonwealth of Australia
fgs
Dept, of Labour and National Service
REGISTRATION FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
HI ACCORDANCE WITH THE NATIONAL SERVICE ACT 1951-1953
BRITISH SUBJECTS anil NEW AUSTRALIANS
THE UNDERMENTIONED MALE PERSONS ORDINARILY RESIDENT IN AUS-
TRALIA AND NOT EXEMPT UNDER THE ACT FROM LIABILITY TO REGISTER
ARE REQUIRED TO REGISTER BETWEEN
23rd AUGUST and 6tk SEPTEMBER, 1955
BRITISH SUBJECTS
who have attained or will attain the age of 18 years
between 1st July, 1955, and 31st December, 1955,
inclusive
NEW AUSTRALIANS
(NOT BEING BRITISH SUBJECTS)
AND NATURALIZED BRITISH SUBJECTS NOT ALREADY REGISTERED
Male Persons who are not British Subjects, and Naturalized
Bntish Subjects not already registered, who attained the age
r*? between 1st JULY, 1954, and 31st DECEMBER,
(inclusive) and were in Australia on 23rd AUGUST,
nrriP erS M n Wh j i ? t f nd ® to his hom e in Australia is regarded as
ordinarily resident in Australia as from the time of his arrival. A person
~ , sicto Sent fr ? m A . ustral,a . during the period within which he is required
to register, must register within 14 days after his return.
ANY PERSON WHO IS REQUIRED TO REGISTER AKin WHO FAILS TO
22... SO ISJ-IABLE TO THE PENALTIES PRESCRIBED UNDER THE ACT.
EXEMPTIONS
The only exemptions from liability to register are-—
hi ST nS ? n ful, - time duty with the Permanent Defence Forces
M P/ plomatlc Personnel specified in Section 18 of the Act '
i b ° ngma nat,ves of Australia including half-castes, and 'persons of
aboriginal extraction living as aborigines. persons or
HOW TO REGISTER
Offices" and mT™ ST* „ NS -” are avai,able a * District ’ Employment
t i? P °U 0ffices - Addresses of the formeV offices
in th p d'rectories. Detailed instructions on how to register are
m the Registration Form and the Sheet (N.S.1A) attached to it
NSR4.93.85
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
ffl
m
tin
u
m
mmm
immmvi
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious • Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY RATES:
Single Rooms—
From 15/- per day
Double Rooms—
From 27/- per day
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"METROPOLE
Telephone No. 80522
(16 lines).
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EMPIRE LAW CONFERENCE
npHE first Commonwealth and
Empire Law Conference ever
held was opened in Westminster
Hall —“the spacious nursery of
the English Common Law”—
and was, by all reports, a spec-
tacular and interesting event,
with delegates from Canada,
Australia, New Zealand, South
Africa, Hong Kong, Fiji, Ceylon,
India, the Gold Coast, the
Rhodesias and Nyasaland,
Malta, the West Indies and many
other places.
It was, says London “Times,”
“a wholesome thing that this
exchange of professional views
should be inaugurated at a time
when the bonds of coercive
authority between the centre and
the circumference of the Com-
monwealth have in many cases
been cut and in all are being
progressively loosened. For it is
a reminder that coercive
authority—the command of a
sovereign, in the Austinian sense
—is very far from exhausting the
content of law.”
In a wide range of subjects,
two interesting discussions dealt
with the fusion of the functions
of solicitor and barrister, and
the creation of a Commonwealth
Court.
Commenting in London “Ob-
server” on the solicitor-barrister
discussion, Lord Justice Den-
ning has pointed out that Eng-
land had always been accus-
tomed to the legal profession
being separated into two
branches, and that “there had
always been enough men here
for the purpose.” In some cases,
he added, particularly in the
early days overseas, there had
been so few legal men available
that they had been obliged to be
both barristers and solicitors
and that this fusion had con-
tinued to the present day.
Whereas some lawyers in
England were inclined to the
idea of fusion, others in Natal
had tried it and rejected it, while
in Canada there were many who
would “unfuse” the profession,
feeling that a lawyer not experi-
enced in court-work should be
able to hand over a case to a
skilled advocate—which he can-
not do while the profession
remains fused.
In the Lord Justice’s view,
“the greatest advantage of
dividing the profession into two
branches is that the number of
barristers must then always be
comparatively small: and this
is a great help in maintaining
standards and traditions built up
over the centuries. High
standards can be maintained
among a small number of men
—because each one is jealous to
notice divergence from principle
and no one of them would will-
ingly forfeit the good opinion
of his fellows. But it could not
be done amongst a large
number.”
On the same subject, London
“Times” notes editorially that
most delegates practising in
countries where the division be-
tween barristers and solicitors
still remains were emphatically
in favor of it.
“On the whole, however,” it
comments, “delegates from all
parts of the Commonwealth were
satisfied with their own system,
whatever it might be”:
“This no more than showed
the resilience of the common
law in adapting itself to local
conditions. Thus, in India, our
[England’s] system works in the
great cities, but the countryman
is too poor to employ more
than one lawyer.”
Referring to the Common-
wealth Court idea developed by
Sir Hartley ShawcrOss, Q.C.,
Edinburgh “Scotsman” has
commented on the Judicial Com-
mittee of the Privy Council
being “well adapted to perform
the function of such a Court”:
“It does so for some parts of
the Commonwealth. But appeals
no longer come from Canada,
India and Pakistan. The main
reason is that these countries no
longer accept the implications of
British sovereignty involved in
appeals to such -a court.”
“If a Commonwealth court
were to be instituted it would
have to be voluntarily accepted,
and while countries of the Com-
monwealth might agree to go to
it for certain purposes they
might not be willing to resort to
it even for every case of the
same type.
“The scheme is a rather
chimerical one. It is an attempt
to salvage some of the unity that
has been lost by the refusal of
certain Commonwealth countries
to allow appeals to the Privy
Council. But the unity that has
been lost can hardly be
recovered, because basically the
new court would not speak
really in the name of the Queen,
but rather in the name of a
THE GERMAN SOLDIER
The Germans are not sure about rearmament. This cartoon,
from the magazine “Simplicissimus,” shows (left) the artist’s
version of the soldier the Adenauer Government wants; and on
the right his idea of what Adenauer’s opponents would prefer.
group of independent nations
like an international court. The
centrifugal forces of nationalism
would probably be too strong
for it.”
"Come Home, Ivan"
Advertisements lately appear-
ing in the Australian press on
behalf of Red satellite countries
and offering all kinds of induce-
ments to expatriates to return
home are apparently part of a
world-wide Communist cam-
paign to persuade refugees to
return to the fold.
Some of the inducements, says
“U.S. News and World Report,”
are “free all-expense trips from
any part of the world—one way.
Once ‘home,’ the Communists
promise, the prodigals will get
good jobs, good housing and
special prestige. Amnesty, ‘even
for serious crimes,’ is offered
those who repent and return.”
The aim behind this campaign,
the same paper adds, “is to wreck
anti - Communist organisations
abroad and to use those who
return to discourage others who
might be planning to escape”:
“So far, the campaign has had
some success. Hundreds of East
Europeans have returned from
West Europe and a few from
the United States. Recently,
1100 singing and laughing
Chinese youngsters passed
through Hong Kong into Red
China.
“Targets of the Communist
campaign include 1.2-million
East Germans and 250,000 East
Europeans from other satellite
countries who have fled into the
free world. In Asia, the Red
Chinese are out to draw back the
young and the leaders among
12-million ‘overseas Chinese'
and 7.5-million Chinese Nation-
alists.
“Thousands of refugees wait-
ing in Europe for visas to the
United States are ‘warned’ what
awaits them by letters, sup-
posedly from fellow-Russians
now in the U.S. These refugees
are told over and over that
America is a bad place, that
Russia is better.
“ ‘I suffer terribly from poison-
ous gasoline fumes,’ says one
letter to a Communist newspaper
published for refugees. ‘lmmi-
grants here in the U.S. get only
the dirtiest, heaviest jobs. Many
people die of heart-attack be-
cause they get no rest. Everyone
is worn out from work. Don’t
come here.’
“ ‘America,’ according to
another letter said to be from
an old Russian couple now living
in the U.S., ‘is good only for
those who have the heart of a
bull, the muscles of an ox and
the nerves of an elephant. For
old people, the only way out
is to the cemetery.’
“The satellite countries of
Eastern Europe all have their
own campaigns to get escapees
and refugees back home.
Rumania, Hungary, Bulgaria and
Czechoslovakia offer amnesty.
Albania’s Communist Govern-
ment sends telegrams and cables
to refugees in the U.S., Yugo-
slavia, Greece and Italy.
“Advertisements, paid for by
Communist Governments, appear
in newspapers in the U.S. Similar
advertisements have appeared in
British, Canadian, Australian,
Belgian, Swiss, Turkish and
Latin-American papers. Personal
letters, written by relatives and
friends behind the Iron. Curtain,
are directed to individual
refugees.
“Most U.S. officials in Europe,
however, see the campaign as a
sign of Communist weakness,
not strength. Communists are
recognising, they say, the damage
done to them by people who


iTfS
ft?
m
W
m
I
For £B5O plus tax Holden gives
the best combination of power,
economy, durability, value
AND Holden is the
only utility made-to-
order for Australia
Only Holden offers this
unique combination of advan-
tages. And the reason is that
Holden is the only utility
designed and built for
Australia.
★ 6 cylinder square engine
power ★ 21 h.p. performance
★ 30 m.p.g. economy and out-
standing dependability as re-
ported by many owners, ★
Generous payload area—length
on floor 75 max. width at
front 56 1" ★ Roomy 3 seater
cabin ★ Nation-wide service;
ready availability of low-cost,
factory guaranteed parts.
★ Convenient G.M.A.C. hire pur-
chase available. • Air Chief is the
GMH car radio.
Compare and you’ll find that you get more
for your money with Holden than any
other utility. Moreover, high resale value
'makes it a great long-term investment.
Holden utility is designed and built for
Australia and has earned the admiration of owners
throughout Australia. These facts together with
better value have made Holden three times as
popular as any other utility.
Some idea of Holden owner satisfaction is
given by Mr. J. R. Brennan of Ascot Park,
Adelaide: “In the course of my Grocery pick-ups
and deliveries I have covered 50,000 miles. The
districts over which I travel have a fair percentage
of made and unmade roads , some of which are
particularly bad in the new districts. In spite of
this the ‘ Holden ’ has performed magnificently . . .
The amazing thing is Petrol Consumption, which
on a rigid test recently showed 33 miles per gallon.”
The Holden Utility is in very heavy demand and
may we suggest that you see your Holden Dealer
and place an order as soon as possible.
HOLDER
Australia's Own Utility
LIST PRICES FROM £B7O PLUS SALES TAX
* REGISTERED TRADE MARK
AUSTRALIA'S OWN PANEL VAN, LIST PRICE £B6S PLUS TAX
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia _
have lived under Communism
and now are free to talk, to spot
lies, to report the truth.
“Communists in Asia and in
Europe do not appear to expect
to start any mass movement back
to Communism. But they are out
to get a few thousand back,
enough to cast suspicion on all
anti-Communist refugees and
enough for propaganda at home
to slow-down the trek to the
free world.”
The German Way
The United Nations Bulletin
of Statistics, reporting that the
mines and factories of the free
world produced 8 per cent, more
in the first quarter of 1955 than
they did in the corresponding
quarter of 1954, adds that the
most spectacular gain was made
by West Germany, where the
mines and factories registered an
increase of 17 per cent.
“Nobody will be surprised by
this,” comments Toronto “Globe
and Mail.” “Everyone knows that
since the currency-reform of
1948 Western Germany has been
increasing her output at a
fabulous pace. It is done by
hard work, of course. But what
is the motive for that hard work?
It is the conviction, held by
Germans of all classes, that the
best thing they can do for them-
selves and for the nation is to
produce more —and more after
that.
“Industrial construction takes
precedence over residential con-
struction ; when a home-builder
and a manufacturer bid for the
same capital, the manufacturer is
more likely to get it.
“On the surface, this might
appear callous and shortsighted,”
the “Globe and Mail” adds.
“War damage and a post-war
influx of 10,000,000 refugees
have left Germany in dire need
of housing. But, in fact, it is
humane and farsighted. What is
the sense of providing a man
with a house if he hasn’t got a
job? Give him the jcb first, and
then he can pay for the house.
“The German Government is
realistic. It recognises that the
production and sale of goods—
particularly in world markets —
provide and determine every-
thing else in the nation’s life. If
the Germans want better
housing, they must produce and
sell more cars, so as to pay for
that housing. If they want more
* social services, they must build
and sell more ships, so as to
finance those social services.
Every comfort, every necessity,
must be earned in advance by
production.
“But once earned in this way,”
the “Globe and Mail” concludes,
“it is secure”:
“We talk a good deal in this
part of the world [Canada] about
security of one sort or another.
We would do better, like the
Germans, to concentrate on pro-
ducing, and selling what we pro-
duce. Then the security would
look after itself. Then it would
have substance behind it.”
"High Off the Hog"
There is, or was, a popular
ditty of U.S. origin going the
rounds a while ago in which
someone soulfully asserts:
I am lowa-bom and -bred
And on lowa corn I’m fed,
Not to mention her barley, wheat
and rye.
Or words to that effect. It went
on to enthuse about sheep,
lambs, strawberry - jams and
other products of the fruitful
earth.
Possibly the song penetrated
the Iron Curtain; or possibly
there were other reasons for 12
of the top Soviet agricultural
authorities lately visiting lowa
(U.S.A.) to study the secrets of
that showplace of “corn- ’n’
hog-raisin’.”
Anyway, they must have gone
away impressed. That very
able “New York Times” writer
Harrison E. Salisbury describes
what the Russians saw with
such affection that one might
fairly suspect him of being
“lowa-born and -bred” himself.
He comments:
“You have to see lowa and
lowa corn and the way of life
built on the economy of corn
and hogs to believe it. There is
no more productive, no more
economical, no richer farming
way of life in the world than
that created on the rich mid-
continental soil of lowa.
“This is a good year for lowa.
There will be a bumper crop of
corn and, as naturally follows, a
bumper harvest of pigs. The
Russians have come at the
height of the corn season —
these hot 90-to- 100-degree days,
when, as the lowans say, ‘The
corn grows at night in this heat.
You can hear it grow.’ You
can, too.
“The corn is up over 7ft. high
in most places, the newly-
harvested oats-fields are golden-
yellow, the alfalfa lies purple-
green in the hot summer air and
the land is obviously laden with
plenty.
“Anyone, even a Russian with
Kremlin distortions built into
his sunglasses, could see that
lowa is living mighty ‘high off
the hog’ these days. And more
abundance lies ahead.”
The visiting Russians would
also have noted, Salisbury con-
tinues, that lowa farmers live in
“fine, comfortable six- to eight-
room houses,” with running
water, indoor toilets, food-
fieezers, automatic clothes-
washers and -driers, refrigera-
tors, television-sets, oil-heat and
“a thousand other mechanical
contrivances for making life
more pleasant”:
“The ordinary lowa farmer
whom the Russians have been
meeting handles a 160-acre farm
by himself, perhaps with the
help of his son and a little
assistance from his wife. He
has a minimum of two cars, and
they are usually brand-new
Buicks or Oldsmobiles or
Cadillacs. There isn’t a farmer
in all of Russia who lives so well
as any farmer you want to pick
at random in Story County,
lowa.”
And, as well, the Russians
have seen the “whole tech-
nological foundation on which
this economy rests”:
“They have seen the produc-
tion-line of a packing-plant with
its unbelievable capacity of
1,500,000 pigs per year. They
have driven over the ribbons of
concrete that crisscross lowa in
all directions more concrete-
topped highway in this single
State than in all Russia.”
What seemed to impress the
Russians most, Salisbury
comments, is the way in which
the one-man farms are worked
by a single farmer with his
labor-saving equipment:
“Alexander Tulipnikov,
member of the Collegium of the
Soviet Ministry of Agriculture,
made a simple comment which
summed the whole thing up:
‘By you one man —by us a
hundred.’ ”
Salisbury, who has travelled
extensively over Russia in recent
years, adds by way of compari-
son that “no such Eden as lowa
exists [in Russia], not even in
the Ukraine”:
“The average Russian farmer
has never heard of a food-
freezer. He knows about TV-
sets, but has never seen one.
And the only passenger-
automobile for miles around
belongs to the collective-farm,
and the chairman uses it.
“There is, of course, one
enormous difference between
lowa and, for instance, the
Ukraine. In the Ukraine there
are huge collective-farms with
2000 and 3000 peasants working
together on an area of several
thousand acres. Here [lowa]
the Russians have seen mostly
160- and 320-acre farms—one-
and two-man affairs.
“According to the book-
doctrine of Russian agriculture
the American farms should be
inefficient because they are small.
But the fact is they outstrip the
Russian agricultural Goliaths in
efficiency and yield.
“The men from Moscow,”
Salisbury concludes, “have made
no effort to conceal the impact
which all this has had upon
them. Whether they will be
able to transport these green-
and-gold secrets back to Russia’s
black-soil belt and create a
Soviet copy of the lowa
economy is not certain.
“It is a task made doubly
difficult if, as in Soviet Russia,
politics and economy leave no
place for the private enterprise
and the profit-incentive which,
together with climate, soil and
know-how, made this fabulous
flowering of the earth possible.”
Formosa
Commenting in London
“Time and Tide” on the various
proposals for the future of
Formosa, E. Heskell Smith
notes that, “should Formosa
ever be abandoned, the major
problem that would confront not
only America but all the democ-
racies would surely be that of
the ultimate fate of the Chinese
on the island”:
“Mr. Nehru advocated the
evacuation of Quemoy and
Matsu, but he has not himself
offered asylum to the 120,000
Nationalist soldiers and the
60,000 civilians on these islands.
“Mr. Attlee suggested remov-
ing Chiang Kai-shek and his
Government from Formosa, but
he never indicated which country
would accommodate the two-
million mainland Chinese who
fled with the Generalissimo rather
than remain under a Communist
regime. Added to these are the
one-and-a-quarter-million who
tried living under the Commun-
ists, but fled during recent years
to Formosa.
“Among others are the 14,000
Chinese p.-0.-w. who chose free-
dom in Korea. In a battle on
Nan-jah Island that took place
a year ago, 794 prisoners cap-
tured by the Nationalists asked
to go to Formosa. In a clash
on another small island, Tung-
han, between the Peking and
Formosa forces, 800 soldiers
who had been conscripted into
the Red Army surrendered to the
Nationalists in the first hour and
asked for asylum.
“There may be differences of
opinion about the strategic im-
portance of Formosa, but who
among us would readily jeo-
pardise the lives of four-million
people?”
Various Voices
Harry Nicholas ( of Great
Britain’s Transport and General
Workers’ Union): “It is a
strange fact that any boy can
become Prime Minister, but he
cannot become a skilled pattern-
maker if that union won’t let
him.”
Harold Stassen (special dis-
armament assistant to President
Eisenhower): “The path of
peace cannot be guaranteed by
any conference. Peace requires
a continuous course of conduct.
The path of peace is not a
reward for one sudden discovery
or one lofty agreement. The
route must be found, the way
must be cleared, the surface
must be paved, and then
all mankind must advance
together.”
AMERICAN AID
Grants. Credits. Total.
Country ' I Q Millions '
Europe: $ $ 3>
Austria 990 13 1003
Belgium-Luxembourg 575
Denmark 233 50 283
France 3408 1574 4982
Germany 3634 196 3,830
G reece 1149 81 1230
Italy . .: .. 2353 300 2653
Netherlands 838 238 1076
Norway 209 100 309
Turkey " ” '• •• • • 169 95 264
United Kingdom 3057 3813 6870
Yugoslavia .. .. 598 54 652
Near East and Africa:
l ran 94 16 110
Israel ” 200 123 323
Asia and Pacific:
China-Formosa 1038 56 1094
TnHia , .. . . .. . . • • 3/ 221 2o^t
Indonesia " 99 127 226
JapaS and Ryukyu Island 2400 90 2490
1/ rvrpfl . .. .. • # •• /20 Z 1 1
Pakistan ' 87 15 102
Philippines 726 79 805
American Republics:
Brazil 16 381 397
Mexico 103 104 207
In this, his 11th year of foreign aid, Uncle Sam will pay
out $3,285,800,000 in military and economic assistance to
countries all over the world. In the previous 10 years he
paid out $51,147 million. The above figures (from the
Milwaukee [ U.S.A. ] “Journal”) show the non-military aid
alone extended between July 1, 1945, and June 30, 1954
military assistance is not broken-down for security reasons.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
“Dangerous Anaemia”
Retiring president of Sydney Chamber
of Commerce L. Atkinson has spoken of
the “dangerous stage of anasmia” reached
in Australia by the professions and skilled
trades. This was, he said, because of the
extraordinary rates of pay now available
for unskilled juniors in routine jobs.
“The shortage of young people being
trained in the professions and skilled
trades was a threat to Australia’s future.”
All true enough. The difficulty of
getting apprentices in most skilled trades,
and the evident unrelish of many for the
technical course to be undertaken, stems,
in large part, from the fact that unskilled
mates are pulling-in big money without
having any unpleasant study or restric-
tions imposed.
Times have surely changed. Back in
the ’thirties my father used to be worried
by more-or-less the same problem, in
reverse—he believed that, with the widen-
ing sweep of education, with, as he
thought, a new generation all bent on a
university education, a serious social pro-
blem would soon arise because no one
would be found to demean himself at
menial, manual, and other lowly pursuits.
(Don’t forget that in those days such
jobs usually were poorly paid.) “Every-
one will want to be a doctor,” was how
he once phrased it.
But, of course, it hasn’t worked out
that way—nor, probably, will it ever.
Meanwhile, though, the problem enunci-
ated by Mr. Atkinson and worrying him
(and plenty of others) is real enough and
calls for some urgent attention. —
Kaymara (N.S.W.).
Round Trips Only
Here’s one for the fo’c’sle lawyers:
New Zealand law, described by defence
counsel as “extraordinary” in compelling
the deportation of a born-and-bred New
Zealander for a breach of his contract
with a shipping company, looked odd
at Christchurch recently. A 24-year-old
seaman, who returned from England in
the Dominion Monarch, not having seen
his own country for four-and-a-half
years, was given a weekend off to visit
his relatives in Lyttelton when the ship
was at Wellington.
Because there was no steamer back till
Monday night he reported for duty on
Tuesday morning, a day late. Thereupon,
refused a £5 advance to which he was
entitled, he walked ashore a week later
and a court appearance followed.
“It appears the law imposes much
heavier penalties on a man for breaking
his contract with a shipping company
than it does on a man who breaks far
more important contracts —for instance,
a marriage contract,” counsel observed.
The judge ruled that, even though the
defendant was a New Zealand citizen,
the hands of the court were completely
tied by the Shipping and Seamen’s Act,
UouJt TGRTUNE
'a*tc/ WEIGHT
1952. There was no option but to con-
vict and order the seaman to be detained
until he could be placed aboard a ship.
As—counsel for the shipping company
explained—“men signed on for the
round voyage from London back to
London, they could not sign on for the
voyage from London to New Zealand
only.” So the young fellow will have to
pay his passage back if he wants to return
for good.
What does Australian law say on the
point?— Avon (N.Z.).
Charles Darwin
Brief comment does not do Charles
Darwin justice (B. 27/7/’55), but he was
not without defects. His judgment of
North Australia was on a par with what
he wrote about Tierra del Fuego and its
natives.
From observations made during his
Voyage of the Beagle period, he con-
sidered the Fuegans the lowest of humans
—a survival of primitive man devoid of
culture and religion. But Gusinde, who
lived with them, won their confidence and
found among these Indians a pure mono-
theism and a surprisingly high standard
of ethics and morality. Darwin had seen
very few Fuegans and could not speak
their language.
On the whole, of course, Darwin was
a patient naturalist, and his observations
on, for example, the flora and fauna of
the Galapagos Islands make it apparent
that these do change over the years. We
get such changes evidenced also in the
fact that in inland seas —e.g., Titicaca in
South America and Victoria Nyanza in
Africa —there are species of fish unknown
elsewhere. How does this come about?
Darwin in his Origin of Species (1859)
argued for natural selection operating
upon the struggle for life —Spencer’s
“survival of the fittest.”
Most subsequent investigators have
found natural selection a deplorably in-
adequate explanation. Even J. B. S.
Haldane, so well-disposed to Darwinism
on the whole, said in 1951, “I regret to
inform you that natural selection has
not been observed to cause evolutionary
change.” Its function is obviously nega-
tive, weeding out extremes and tending
to preserve the normal.
Darwinian ideas have been greatly
modified by the findings of Bateson,
Mendel, De Vries, Morgan and the gene-
ticists who have stressed the importance
of the genes rather than of external
environment.
Again, it has been pointed out that new
forms appear and develop most easily,
not where the struggle for existence is
most severe, but where —as in Lakes
Nyanza and Titicaca and on the tropical
Galapagos Islands —it is least severe.
Anatomists also have been very criti-
cal of Darwin’s Descent of Man (1871).
Professor Wood Jones, in the “British
Medical Journal” of February 10, 1948,
pointed out that Darwin had no first-hand
knowledge whatever of the anatomy of
monkeys, or apes or men. He was un-
acquainted with the best literature being
written on the subject, and had, concern-
ing things anatomical, a sort of second-
hand mental-shop comprised of ill-
assorted and ill-assimilated odds and
ends. According to Wood Jones, the
thesis of The Descent of Man was devoid
of any factual basis in the anatomy of
the primates. Such a drastic opinion was
shared also by Westenhofer, who con-
tended that man constituted a class by
himself unrelated to any of the primates.
Charles Darwin really excelled as a
naturalist, and his uncontested classic is
neither of his well-known and contro-
versial books, but his humbler work on
earthworms. His ideas about evolution
did not appeal to that perhaps even
greater naturalist, the Frenchman Fabre.
On larger issues Darwin was rather
muddleheaded, and there are scientists of
today prepared to declare with philoso-
pher Jean-Paul Sartre (1947): “It is pos-
sible that some day the belief in evolu-
tion will seem the greatest folly of our
century.”
After all, Darwinism was largely a
British affair. French and German oppo-
“Been digging the garden myself , Captain.”
sition was ever strong, and even as late
as 1934 the agnostic Fleishmann, then
occupant of a German Chair of Zoology
and Comparative Anatomy, proclaimed
against it because he held it to conflict
with anatomy, histology, cytology and
embryology: “The foundationless, fan-
tastic edifice of the Evolution doctrine
would long ago have met with its long-
deserved fate were it not that the love
of fairy-tales is so deep-rooted in the
heart of man.” — Martin Haley (Q.).
Road Deaths
The road toll still brings the usual out-
burst of articles and letters in the press,
with statements by various authorities,
most of which go over the same old
ground, though there is now a growing
complaint that bad roads are the main
cause of accidents.
Some thirigs need clearing up. Bad
roads we certainly have, but a bad road
is only likely to cause an accident when
a driver travels over it as he would over
a good road. The same thing applies to
dangerous curves, intersections, and very
sharp and blind corners.
One side argues that speed is a main
cause of accidents, another that a good
driver may speed in safety, still another
that slow, crown-hugging drivers also
cause accidents. All of which is true
enough. It all depends on who is speeds
ing and where. And, though most
motorists know full well the crawling
crown-hugger, one of his type has yet to
be prosecuted for what is actually
dangerous driving.
An N.R.M.A. man claims that trailers
parked on roadsides are a menace. So
they are —to drivers who ignore the
fundamental rule of keeping a sharp
lookout and to those who believe that
because the road to the corner is clear
there is nothing round the corner.
Anybody who hits a trailer would be
nearly as likely to hit a house.
Lately there has been an attack on old
cars and trucks. Some have even said
that no vehicle over ten years old should
be allowed on the roads. Yet it is safe
to say that an analysis would show that
proportionately more new vehicles are
involved in accidents than old. The
peculiar thing is that in most States all
vehicles must pass a roadworthiness
test every year, but drivers may drive
for half a century or more without a test
as to physical, nervous, or mental fitness.
And it is far too easy to get a licence.
A few lessons from a friend or a
“driving - school,” some questions
answered at a police-station, a short
tour of the immediate vicinity with a
policeman in the car, and anyone from
17 to 100 may take a car into the mass
of traffic. There is no long term of
probation such as an electrician, a
plumber or even a jockey-boy must go
through before being allowed to practise
far less dangerous things than motor-
driving.
As for the roads, disgracefully bad
though they be, there is no short-term
cure for that. The obvious thing is to
drive carefully on them. Anybody who
wants to race over potholes, sliding
gravel, up-thrust and slewing tramlines,
through narrow streets, is asking for it.
All of which, of course, can be added
to by other observations without really
getting anywhere in cutting-down the
road-toll. The position calls for deep
study and the ruthless application of
safety-laws—d rink i n g drivers, for
instance, get off with small penalties
when convicted; they seem to have to
kill somebody before losing their licence.
And, in Sydney at least, there are too
few traffic-police, and antagonism rather
than co-operation between motorists and
motorists, and motorists and pedestrians.
Australians are not noted for good
manners, and the road-toll is part of the
penalty for it.
As for the suggestion that road-safety
organisations are becoming apathetic
because of the apparent failure of their
efforts, let them reflect that without those
efforts the carnage might be several times
what it is.—D. D. (N.S.W.).
Every Night
The shocking death of a pensioner who
was burned in a Sydney incinerator,
where he sought shelter, calls to mind the
City Night Refuge and Soup Kitchen in
Kent-street, which for nearly 90 years
has fed and provided a sleeping-place
for penniless old men.
I discovered that, in this era of full
employment and prosperity, the place is
still doing non-stop business. “Despite
good times, we are always crowded,”
Mr, McKittrick, the warden, told me.
“We have 102 beds, yet we have to turn
men away most nights. Ninety per cent,
of our lodgers are alcoholics, and no one
else will have them. But the rest are old-
age pensioners and cripples who have no
family and cannot get a room in these
high-rent days.”
Mr. McKittrick acts for the Sydney
City Mission and does what he can to
comfort the old men and rehabilitate the
drunks. He is helped by Mrs. McKit-
trick, who looks after the men’s corres-
pondence. “You’d be surprised at the
number of letters which come for them
here,” she said. “Often this is the only
address they can give anybody.”
Every day 250 men sit down at the long
benches in the bare dining-hall—loo for
a bread-and-porridge breakfast, 150 for
the stew supper. They must be in by
5.45 p.m. or lose the chance of a bed,
and must be away by 7 a.m. Thus they
have 11 hours to kill —perhaps in the
park and public library.
No man is admitted unless he first goes
under a hot shower. “Some try to dodge
the shower, others try to smuggle in a
bottle of methylated-spirit to drink, and
we have a tussle to get it away from
them,” the warden said.
Bed and board are free to all, but a
charge of 2s. 6d. per bed-night is made
on those who can afford it. Laundry
costs the mission £6 6s. a week.
Because of lack of money it has been
impossible to make the old building more
homelike and cheerful, but a games- and
reading-room has been fitted-up by the
McKittricks. Despite the grimness ot
the place, these two grandparents are
imbued with amazing optimism and
faith and have an unquenchable sense
of humor.
The house in which they live, next-
door to the refuge, is a survival of old
Sydney. Once the residence of Justice
Dowling, it is in colonial style, with
veranda, paved garden and columns. The
neat garden, with its figtree and palms, is
an oasis among the factories of Kent-
street.—L. K. (N.S.W.).


Fcttih in lire
Future
df
Texan Americans—among whom I find myself
as I write this in Corpus Christi —are a bright
breed unto themselves. Which is not surprising,
considering the size of their State.
You could fit Victoria into it three times over.
If superimposed on New South Wales it would
cover 80% of that State’s area. It is just under
40% the size of Queensland.
Texas is as variegated as it is large. Many
people have come here to put a rich overlay on
to the old Spanish surface. And how evident that
early religious influence is, with such place-names
as Corpus Christi, San Antonio —and Santa
Gertrudis, the area in which the famous King
Ranch is situated —scattered far and wide within its
borders!
The independence of the Texan spirit is rooted
deep in the history of centuries. For 10 years after
the people won their separation from Mexico in
1836, this was a republic until the United States
annexed it and admitted it to the Union.
Faith and unity have done the rest, and today
Texas is one of the wealthiest and most prosperous
territories in the world. It is important
agriculturally, leads the U.S.A. in cattle, has oil
in abundance.
Many people in Texas hold the opinion that
the Mexican Gulf States and Latin America will
become the centre of gravity in the New World.
Many go so far as to say they believe that by
1975, Houston, the big Texas city close to the
shores of the Gulf, will vie with New York.
Allowing for local enthusiasm, it does seem
to me that there is a change in the geographical
emphasis of this continent, and much movement to
support the hopes of those who set store on a
greater southerly balance.
And that, I believe, is not without significance
to the Pacific, in which Australia’s future is
wrapped.
eesitlx.
7
uou/i duhOtpji
i*i Stamtiui
CLOTHES
. . . because Stamina clothes give
protection all the year round
Made exclusively from pure-wool, specially-woven
cloth, they provide youngsters with that extra,
natural warmth they need in winter ... warmth
that guards them against coughs, colds and
influenza.
But children need Stamina protection in warmer
months, too. It is so easy for them to catch colds
on changeable spring and summer days. The Pure
Wool Crusader cloth from which all Stamina
clothes are made is a scientific insulation. So, no
matter how over-heated they become from running
around, Stamina ensures that they cool off slowly,
naturally, healthily.
Remember, too, that Stamina clothes are made
better, made stronger ... and cost less.
ASK FOR
Stamina;
SCHOOL WEAR
K.B AND RANGER KNICKERS • BOYS* SUITS o GIRLS’
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
TUNICS
5W1.113
One-fare Trams
Trouble over the new one-man buses
• o a , + , n , lK ti nn r.f
in Sydney has reopened the question of
trying flat-rate fares. Why not do as
in Canada and the United States, people
ask, “and have one fare for any distance?
That would make it easier to operate
one-man buses and trams, and the duvers
couldn’t grumble."
r. • , a *Wr\rtVi
Being newly arrived from North
America, I sought official «»Mto
the idea, but found it a delicate subject.
No one on the employers’ or workers’
side wanted to jump the gun before the
start of the State committee’s inquiry
into the future of one-man buses.
Off the record, however, opinion was
unanimous that Sydney citizens would
not tolerate a flat-rate fare. “The trouble
is,” one executive said, “we’ve molly-
coddled the public too long. Fares have
gone up only 116 per cent, since the war,
whereas everything else has gone up two
to four times as much. If you asked the
public to pay the same fare for travelling
one section as for seven, you’d lose all
your short-distance passengers.”
Sydney is a particularly hard nut to
crack, because the number of short-
distance fares in the city is very high
compared with, say, Newcastle. Some-
thing like 92-million passengers a year
— 3O P er cent - of the whole—use the
Sydney trams for just one section, and
nearly the same number for two sec-
tionJ But (he ratio of three . section
p assen g ers f a iis steeply to 12 per cent.,
an( j 0 £ four-section passengers to under
jq p er cent
' North American
’ ,
transport-operators are for financial
reasons, not too happy about their one-
Mr! A. A. Shoebridge,
N.S.W. Transport Commissioner, says
t .....ij
f.f re f Man y U : ’SSbI W?
gfce to change-over toJ. differential fares
gut they are so traditionally committed
that they consider the change would be
im P ra ctica e.
tn Montreal, where I live , ac -
muter can, for 10 cents (about 9±d.),
travel over a public transport-system
comparable to Sydney s 120 miles of
tram-routes and 355 miles of bus-routes,
With his transfer-ticket he can hop from
one vehicle to another and girdle the
whole city for his dime,
On North American transport the
driver is fare-collector, though a two-
man crew operates where double-trams
are used, the guard sitting at the entrance,
with passengers going to him to pay.
Drivers habitually drive while attending
to change-giving, an unsafe practice,
though quarters and dimes are easier to
handle than pennies and florins, both for
quick reckoning and weight.
Sydney drivers, though, are no
strangers to the one-man-crew system.
The city’s 145 privately-owned buses are
mainly one-man vehicles, the driver
usually being the proprietor. L. K.
(N.S.W.).
N. S. Wales Railways
The daily press gives a wrong im-
pression of the revenue of the N. S. Wales
railways. Actually, N. S. Wales is the
only State in which railway-revenue
exceeds working-expenses. All the other
States show deficits of millions.
The capital-value of the N. S. Wales
system is £225 million, and interest on
that enormous sum is charged against
revenue year by year. I haven’t the
actual figures for the last year, but I
do know that the deficit of £2 million is
reached after charging interest.
There is no doubt that the capital-
value of the N. S. Wales railways is too
high and should be written down —as
Queensland and Victoria have done. It
is remarkable that so much is earned by
Government-owned railways in a Slate
where road-competition is eating into
railway-revenue. In the last financial
year revenue was well over £75 million
—three times that earned by Victorian
railways.
In 1952-53 the N. S. Wales railways
made a profit of more than £6 million of
revenue over working-expenses, while all
the other States combined accumulated
a deficit of nearly £7 million. I am not
defending the railway administration, but
merely stating facts.
State railways are built for two pur-
poses —transport for the existing popu-
lation and the opening-up and improve-
ment of communications to new settle-
ments. As in Canada, pioneer lines are
not expected to provide an immediate
profit, but they will do so as settlement
increases. The Government should pay
more attention to pioneer-railway con-
struction, without worrying about the
lines paying at first. They are developing
the country, and, in any case, the tax-
payers foot the bill.
There is a most urgent need today for
the States to get together in solving the
break-of-gauge problem, in opening-up
our great northern emptiness, and in co-
operating with road-transport instead of
competing with it—John S. Spence
(N.S.W.).


•'Phenovis”
brand of Phenothiazln*
1 $t
a m
Wimp
Sflil
M 5&
5
Oft
O
Woutduf YOU
Fivepence
PHENOVIS
on
roR MORE WOOL/
Yes, you’ve probably paid less BUT . . .
‘Phenovis’ Drench costing you about sd. per
sheep per drenching (that’s almost 1/3 a year)
keeps one sheep WORM FREE!
‘Phenovis’ is the most effective Drench ever
used by Australian Graziers . . . therefore it
pays YOU to use only the BEST!
‘PHENOVIS* is effective because:
1. It’s made from extremely fine ground
phenothiazine.
2. It effectively controls the major
intestinal worms found in sheep.
3. WORMFREE SHEEP produce 25%
. more wool per sheep.
4. Helps sheep resist in-
fection.
5. Keeps pastures con-
tamination-free.
Insist upon the SUPERFINE
quality
'PHENOVIS'
LIQUID OR POWDER
ORDER now from your
Supplier.
PHE.38X.1463
H DJE_Pj NDAB L E 91UMIIL /jrYSPp TE C TID N PRODUCT
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES 0 F~flU S TRA LI A & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
does a MAN’S job
about the place
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
ROTARY SCYTHE
The circular disc with 3 cutter blades attached
revolving at a high speed guillotines paspalum
and DANK WEED GROWTH and will cut
the grass as short as you wish.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor
tor tree particulars and for demonstrations:
gsd
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. BUISII.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Sth. Aus.: M. S. McLEOD, LTD., 176/180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, LTD., Launceston.
Sole Aust. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Caatlereagh St., SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
WOOL AND SYNTHETICS
[this week —on Monday, August 22—the International Wool-
textile Conference met in Sydney. The conference will move
from Sydney to Geelong (Vic.), taking in a visit to Canberra, and
finishing in Melbourne on September 9. The following article,
by Arthur Johnson, M.Sc., F.T.1., C.G.1.A., Head of the School
of Textiles, Department of Technical Education, Sydney, is timely .]
f\NE of the most perplexing
problems which confront
the housewife is to decide how
much to believe of the spate of
propaganda which stimulates
the sale of garments made from
synthetic fibres. In Australia it
is important to know exactly
where these fibres stand in rela-
tion to wool, as, without going
into detailed explanations, it is
obvious that our present standard
of prosperity depends on the
value which housewives in other
countries place on this fibre.
It is interesting to learn a little
of the way artificial fibres have
become an indispensable part of
our wardrobes. For instance,
originally the invention of rayon
was a direct threat to silk; it
took place when stockings were
not made of the fine filaments
of today, but from very thick
wool, cotton or silk.
Some idea of the volume of this
trade could be gathered from the
thousands of tons of discarded
black-wool stockings collected in
Europe and sent to the Batley
district in England for grinding
into fibre and re-spinning into
yarn. This was then woven and
remade into garments (inci-
dentally, a remarkable tribute to
the enduring properties of wool-
fibre).
When rayon was invented the
volume of this raw-material was
quickly reduced, pointing to the
success of the man-made fibre
as a material for stockings. It is
interesting to reflect, however,
that in its turn the original rayon
used for stockings has now been
supplanted by a truly synthetic
fibre —nylon—a pointer to com-
petition between artificial fibres
themselves.
A less spectacular, but even
more effective, substitution of
wool by artificial fibres took
place so long ago that the
change is almost forgotten. This
had to do with the production
of wool-linings for suits and
costumes, long before the inven-
tion of rayon. In those days a
very thin yarn was made from
fine wool and woven into a fabric
with as smooth a surface as pos-
sible —obviously smoothness is
essential for a satisfactory lining.
A high degree of technical skill
is needed to spin this rather
costly wool-yarn, and few manu-
facturers would tackle the job;
so, when rayon was invented, it
was soon applied in the manu-
facture of linings.
The demand for lustrous fabric
was so strong that the new rayon
quickly began to supersede wool
for this purpose, in spite of the
fact that nearly 20 years were
to pass before the rayon the
manufacturer produced could be
said to be of a durable fibre. It
is difficult to say what weight of
wool was superseded by rayon
for linings, but we do know that
rarely, if ever, is a wool-lining
seen today; in fact, even silk
and cotton appear to have been
completely overshadowed by
man-made filaments.
The infiltration of rayon into
men’s suitings has been much less
obvious than was the case with
linings. In suitings, rayon is
mostly used as a mixture with
other fibres, and consequently
the length of the rayon-fibre has
to be approximately the same
as that of the wool with which it
is mixed. Rayon is spun in long,
continuous filaments, and these
need cutting into short lengths
before mixing with wool can
take place. In one sense, this
dilution of the wool-content
cannot be regarded as a new
development, as wool has for
many years been mixed with
cotton in certain fabrics.
From the manufacturer’s point
of view there is an advantage
in using rayon instead of cotton
for this purpose, as the regularity
of rayon makes it easier to spin
a regular yarn from a blend of
the two fibres.
Despite these uses of rayon in
place of cotton or silk, it has
always been the objective of the
manufacturer of man-made
fibres to make his product as
much like wool as possible. It
has been openly stated that the
“greatest scope for new synthetics
seems to be invading the wool
field, since the high price of
wool makes it particularly vul-
nerable. To achieve this formid-
able task technical problems will
have to be overcome, but the
prize is so great that considerable
effort will be made to win it.”
In one way, this challenge may
contain a measure of comfort for
the wool-man: the high price
of his product may represent
a margin over production-costs
to be used in the future battle
of prices.
As the merits of new fibres
produced by man are announced
to the world with all the force
of modern advertising tech-
niques, we are apt to let this
overshadow our appreciation of
the basic properties of wool. It
is, therefore, of interest to
review some of these properties:
“I’m beginning t ’ think you only love me because
I’ve got a car.”
Wool is elastic—when a mass
of wool-fibre is compressed and
released it immediately springs
back. This in itself would not be
a recommendation if it were not
for the ability of wool to spring
back repeatedly after such com-
pression. Wool is superior in
elasticity to ordinary rayons and
even nylon.
Most of the research which
gives us information on the
properties of wool is done in
single fibres, as far too many
complicating factors are present
when tests are made on wool-
cloth. There has, however, been
some attempt to correlate the
ability of fibres to recover from
strain when in fabric-form. In
brief, suppose that the strain im-
posed on fibres when made into
garments is numerically ex-
pressed as 5 per cent. Tests have
shown that up to this figure wool
has a greater amount of direct
elasticity than any synthetic
fibre.
We are all very much aware
of the way suits bag at knee and
elbow, and it is not difficult to
visualise the repeated bending
and straightening which fibres
in these areas undergo during the
movements of our daily life.
Eventually, this movement causes
the fabric to wear; but actually
fabric-wear is fibre-breakage,
and this has been the subject of
a number of important investiga-
tions.
These attempted to find how
many times a fibre could be bent
and straightened before it broke.
Ordinary rayon fractured after
75 bends, natural silk took 1800
and cotton 3200 before being
damaged. Some wool-fibres,
however, were unbroken after
20,000 bends, and in this respect
equalled the performance of
nylon, which is generally
regarded as a very tough fibre.
Another property of wool
makes it a very comfortable
fibre to wear —its ability to
absorb up to 30 per cent, by
weight of water without the
material feeling wet. In this it is
much superior to other fibres.
Garments made from wool can
be worn next to the skin; they
absorb perspiration without
making the wearer feel cold and
clammy. The synthetic fibres do
not absorb a great deal of
moisture, and for this reason
alone many manufacturers of
cloth find it necessary to mix
wool with artificial fibres to pro-
vide some measure of moisture-
absorbency in the fabric.
Perhaps one of the most im-
portant attributes of wool-
clothing is that it is so comfort-
able to wear in climates subject
to sudden changes in tempera-
ture. This is due to the ability of
the wool-fibre to liberate heat
when it takes up water-vapor, a
phenomenon which can best be
understood by reference to a
practical example. For instance,
indoors a wool-suit and -overcoat
weighing 121 b. may contain 1|
pint of water and still feel dry.
If the wearer of such clothing
then moved into the much cooler
atmosphere of a winter’s day, the
wool could take up a further \\
pint of moisture and still not be
regarded as damp!
The effect which accompanies
this pick-up of moisture is still
more surprising: it causes the
wool-fibres to release a rather
large amount of heat —in fact,
sufficient to boil away l\ pint
of water! This is approximately
the amount of heat which the
body of the wearer of the cloth-
ing produces in about three
hours.
Wool-clothing, therefore, can
be likened to a central-heating
system which adds to our com-
fort when we move from a warm
to cool atmosphere. (Writer,
when he first came to Australia,
was surprised to see Sydney
women set out in the heat of a
summer morning in lightweight
dresses and carrying a knitted
wool cardigan. The reason
became obvious about 4 or 5
p.m., when the temperature
dropped 30 or 40 degrees.)
Another point is that wool
does not bum easily; so is a
much safer fibre to wear than
many of the synthetic fibres.
An interesting observation has
been made to the effect that,
although any single property can
be found more highly developed
in a selected man-made fibre,
no other fibre possesses the all-
round utility of wool. In other
words, wool is satisfactory, not
because it is sensational in any
one respect, but because it is
good in many.
This, however, must not make
us complacent and reluctant to
investigate new methods of wool-
production or new uses for it.


Best
Mineral
Supplement
K\
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
CM-
Mfjtttjp 3
BOH*
HiW
“Dti€cd(k
STERILISED
bone flour
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O Box 3583,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Box 712 F ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Sox 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O Box 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
Missing Friends
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts
of relatives of FREDERICK WILLIAMS,
deceased, late of Hamilton, New Zealand,
Retired Hairdresser, who died at Hamil-
ton on 3rd May, 1963, request them to
communicate with the undersigned.
Frederick Williams was born at Kyogle,
New South Wales, about 1882, and was at
one time heavyweight boxing champion
of Australasia. —W. KANE, District
Public Trustee, P.O. Box 429, Hamilton,
New Zealand.
NEW IMPROVED
SHEEP BRANDING FLUID
«8&SI-R0-MARK
*
rti
u
s
Jtds
'yf
U
m
i
Manufactured by the major wool processing company in Australia.
The company that knows from years of experience what can and
what cannot be removed from shorn wool.
Exclusive use of SI-RO-MARK enhances the
value of your clip because although durable, it is
readily scourable
HENRY B. SMITH LIMITED
AT THE GATEWAY TO MELBOURNE
559-565 SPENCER STREET. Tel. FJ 1608
If you have any difficulty in obtaining supplies, mail this coupon to—
HENRY B. SMITH LIMITED
Box 4506 G.P.0., Melbourne
Please Dispatch to —
NAME
ADDRESS
Number of Tins 1 Gal Red Green Blue @ 25/-
4- Gal Red Green Blue @ 13/4
Fortunately, there is an increas-
ing awareness that wool must
not only be grown but also sold.
The future of Australia without
wool is too bleak to contemplate,
Roof Rroerlc nt
B 1 ? r * e(iS at
Brisbane
“You New Southers can’t say
this is ‘another roughie from
Queensland,’ ” R.N.A. Coun-
cillor Max Reynolds said, dig-
ging up ancient history, when
Woodlands Saxon, G. W. N.
Bassingthwaite’s entry, was
judged champion Hereford bull.
Encountered later, Mr. Rey-
nolds added: “Don’t forget to
put in The Bulletin how well
the Queensland cattle did in the
Herefords ”
They did, too: and Max
Reynolds wasn’t the only
Queenslander who was happy
about the standard of Herefords,
which were judged by New
South Welshman R. A. Rey-
nolds, of Hobartville, Richmond,
Queensland studs paraded nine
of the 16 first-prize winners in
strong classes, and the senior
and junior champion bulls,
reserve champion cow, and
junior and reserve champion
heifers all came from Queens-
land studs.
The champion bull is by
Woodlands Emperor, which won
the Brisbane Royal champion-
ship for the Woodlands (Green-
mount, Q.) stud in 1953. Reserve
champion was Timor White
Brothers' Timor Convair-sire,
Cuppa Courageous ; dam, Timor
Princess Royal 6th.
_ xt e 4.u xxt i
The New South Wales stud
had another victory when Timor
Carissima 10th was judged
champion cow; E. R. Reynolds
Estate’s (Oakey, Q.) Ennisview
Adventuress 38th was reserve
champion.
Junior champion bull was H.
C Kemp’s Moolabah Broadway
(Moolabah stud, St. George, Q.);
another Bassingthwaite bull,
Woodlands Warsash, reserve
champion. Fairymead Sugar
Company took the double with
the heifers Fairymead Royal
Lady and Fairymead Royal
Duchess 2nd, both by Cuppa
Coronation, as junior champion
and reserve junior champion
respectively,
R. H. Tout, of Wambanumba,
Young (N.S.W.), judged the
black cattle. Champion Aber-
deen Angus bull was Wallah
Nobend, entered by Wallah
Pastoral Co., Narrabri (N.S.W.):
champion is by the imported
bull Benes of Gaidrew, which
sired last year’s champion at
Brisbane. H. G. Munro s Booroo-
mooka Waltz was reserve cham-
pi°n - The Munro family, of
course, are the famous N.S.W.
breeders.
H. S. Corden’s Sarum
Grandeur 3rd was junior cham-
pion bull; reserve, W. E. Web-
ster and Sons’ Sarum Echo,
H. S. Corden’s Kurrajong stud
at Inglewood, and the Webster
stud, Sarum, Kingaroy, are two
Queensland studs which are
douig particular!ly wel- Eaton
Webster has been doing some
advanced work with pastures 1
Bald Blair Bent 4th was
champion cow; reserve, H. G.
Munro’s Booroomooka Excus-
able. Junior champion was
another Munro product, Booroo-
mooka Yasmin, reserve junior
champion W. E. Webster and
Sons’ Sarum Dons-Castle.
There was rather more “tail”
“ th ? Aberdeen Angus classes
tba "
Frank Hood, of Kywa
Altmry (N.S.W.), who judged the
Shorthorns ,7% ™& ressed J?
the oider bulls, but thought the
y<X“S er °“ sa t»t ragged; weak
heads and shoulders being the
“ fa “ lts - He d ! dn 1
"?“ h . ,r ° uble D P‘ ck ' n « , th , e
champion—D. R. McCaugheys
oonong Approval, a September,
bull. Stud-master Gaston
has done a lot with the Mc-
Caughey Shorthorns at Boram-
bola Park, Wagga (N.S.W.)—
one of the show properties in
the Riverina, by the way. C.
Parker’s Apex Drummer, by
Wongala Champion (imp. in
utero) was reserve champion;
the champion beat him on coat,
condition and head,
Woomargama Taurus (C. P.
Fairbairn and Co., Woomar-
gama Estate) was junior cham-
pion; reserve junior champion
was Coonong Banner Bearer, an
eight-months-old calf by the
imported bull Calrossie Tran-
quil.
Champion cow was Greenwich
Averne Frances (Kyalla Pty.,
Ltd., Greenwich, Towrang,
N.S.W.), and reserve champion
cow was Lithgow and Ross’s
Dauntless Gay Buttercup (by
Calrossie Subsidy, imp.).
Nelson L. Ryrie, of Weema-
bah, Trangie (N.S.W.), judged
the Poll Shorthorns. Coonil
Classic, exhibited by Belyanna
Pastoral Co., Eulo (Q.), was the
champion bull. G. R. Lee and
Sons’ Royal Reserve sth was
reserve champion. Junior cham-
pion A. Langmore Estate’s
Prospect Marquis ; reserve junior
champion was a Kyalla Co. bull,
Greenwich Gallery.
Netherby Snow White, the
Scrymgeour cow which was
champion at Sydney this year,
was again champion at Bris-
bane ; Kyalla’s Greenwich Flora
Finch was reserve champion;
junior champion was a Gundibri
Estate heifer, a Kyalla heifer
reserve junior champion.
G. W. N. Bassingthwaite
judged the Poll Herefords.
Merawah Revenge (J. H. Doyle
Estates, Merawah, Boggabilla,
N.S.W.) was champion bull.
Champion cow was Trevanna
Lovely 95th, shown by S. A.
Plant and Son, of Trevanna,
Cooyar (Q.).
Devons were not strong this
year. Taiping Investments
(N.S.W.) paraded the champion
bull and the champion cow.
W. J. D. Shaw, of Rodd’s, Glad-
stone (Q.), judged the Devons.
B. Joyce, of Eidsvold Station,
Eidsvold (Q.), judged the Zebus,
making their second appearance
at Brisbane. Competition was
mainly between the Atkinsons of
Mt. Garnett and Ingham.
Santa Gertrudis from the
Australian King Ranch stud at
Warwick made their first appear-
ance. B. Joyce judged them, and
said they were of a high
standard.
Using the Scythe
“D.R.S.”: The advice “Mac-
quarie” had from the old-timer
about using a scythe (B.
22/6/’55) was good as far as it
went. Here are a few points
learned from three old-timers.
Blade needs to be flat on
ground when operator stands
erect in a comfortable position ;
this can be adjusted by amount
of twist on tang (when hot),
which connects blade to handle.
Keep a foot or so of blade
nearest handle extra sharp for
neat work.
To sharpen, point of handle
is placed on ground. Optional
whether point of blade is also
on ground or up at shoulder-
height—preferably the latter,
with blade pointing to right, so
that underside of blade becomes
upper-side temporarily.
Start heavy stroke at left
upper-side and keep stone
pressed evenly on reinforcing-
rib and cutting-edge; this gives
required bevel to what is under-
side when mowing. Alternate
with light strokes on other side
of blade, also outward from left
to right; this straightens up
serrations made by heavy
strokes.
Important to keep tang tightly
screwed down, and also to have
hook sufficiently short and tight
to hold blade pointing inwards
to left of operator.
Scythe can be a fast tool for
trimming projecting edges of
lawns. Despite the advice given
to “M.” not to use the tool for
chopping, a flat blade close to
the ground can be useful for
chopping tussocks and awkward
corners provided there is no
play between blade and handle.
It isn’t easy to learn to use a
scythe properly, and it can be
a dangerous tool to handle, if
one can believe the story of the
mower who swung so strongly
in a heavy crop that he cut off
his own head ; but, rightly used,
it will do neat work faster and
with less exertion than some
other hand-tools.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(14/8/’55)
The sunspot activity during the week has been the
greatest for some time; the gales and heavy rains in southern
Australia have been a direct result.
Rainfall should be very poor in most of Queensland
until December, when moderate general rains should occur.
In N.S.W. during September, reasonably good rains
should occur on the coast from Newcastle southwards, with
light to moderate falls on the tablelands, and moderately
good rain on the s.-w. slopes and Riverina. Elsewhere,
light and below average.
Reasonably good general rains should occur in Victoria
and South Australia, but patchy and below average in W.A.
LENNOX WALKER.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, dassers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


KEROSENE
Kf&Si
PRESSURE
RegcJ.
....... .-.. ...
x - :: • ;■ ;
v mmm
Samps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l£ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MAN UFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
GUARD
sttPvblt'CJs
PROTECTA L
SVml-Sift
TILL
■%*
Suitable for every type of business It records
•II Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing Id •ppearanee. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Between
Ourselves
s ifl u
•—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
he had averted himself entirely
from my neighborhood;
apparently this meeting was too
much for him, and he vanished
behind a slammed door like a
rabbit into a blackberry-bush. I
thought about this for some time
in the dining-room, until he ap-
peared and sat down facing the
opposite wall. Mrs. Callnan
invisibly bullied the wan Dolores,
who spoke to nobody. The
dining-room windows, white-
frosted with advertisements for
pale ale, streamed dumbly with
continual rain and the lights
flickered weakly.
I refused the green-and-
crimson jellies with artificial
custard (they reminded me too
strongly of my afternoon with
the bag of jujubes), strayed up-
stairs into the guests’ lounge and
on a useless impulse pressed
the bell. If anyone came, I
decided, I should order a
liqueur ; not that I liked liqueurs,
but no drink less expensive could
atone for doing such a thing.
No one did come —indeed; there
was no one to come if not
Dolores or Mrs. Callnan. At
last I saw in a corner a radio
of white plastic marble built on
the lines of a war-memorial and
concealed behind a cascading
ribbon-fern. But even as I
raised my hand to the switches
Dolores appeared in front of me,
her eyes wild. “Mrs. —Callnan—
says—please—leave—it— alone,”
she panted. “It’s broke.”
My hand sprang back as if
from a homets’-nest, and I went
back to my room and the maga-
zines. The rain went on.
Next morning nothing had
changed. In desperation I had
my hair cut; but even the barber
was sullen. It was not until I
asked him what the races had
been like that he came to life.
“They’re crooked,” he exclaimed,
raising one hand as though
taking a court - room oath;
“crooked, the whole gang. Not
a racing-man left that’s honest.
A man’s a fool that has any-
thing to do with a racecourse
nowadays. As for me, I’m a
Baptist. None of that for me.”
I was ashamed to have men-
tioned the subject; but when
I took my leave I noticed behind
the door a pile of racing-
supplements of such a height that
it seemed the barber’s conversion
had been recent.
Now and then as I walked
aimlessly up and down the
streaming streets I caught sight
of my companion of the hotel
on the same empty round ; but
we did not meet. His name, I
had discovered from Dolores,
was Henley-Cox, and he was a
“traveller.” After a little of this
jumpy game of hide-and-seek I
was nervous myself, and when,
pausing outside the ironmonger’s
to study the price of hacksaw-
blades, I saw him at the counter
inside, I hurried off as if I were
avoiding some disaster.
That afternoon, after a more
than usually weighty lunch, I
woke from a doze and went out
on to the balcony to look for
some hope in the hopeless sky.
There, by my French-windows,
sat Mr. Henley-Cox, his large
yellow face expectant, a paper-
bag in one hand.
I stepped back at once; as
far as I was concerned the bal-
cony was all his. But to my
surprise he stood up with a
smile that revealed a line of
whitewashed tombstones in gums
of unearthly plastic-pink. His
feet arranged in the first posi-
tion of dancing, he bowed and
held out his paper-bag. It con-
tained a pound of Tony Moros’s
jujubes.
The shudder that overtook
me must have been obvious.
“Thank-you,” I said, “but really
I’m not at all hungry.”
TTE must have misinterpreted
11 the shudder. “I beg your
pardon, Miss,” he said earnestly,
“if I’ve seemed rude in avoid-
ing you. As a rule I’m a very
sociable person; very gregarious,
as they say; but just now the
fact is—never mind. Do accept
these; just to please me.”
His eyes rolled shinily, his
ogle was thoroughly oiled.
“Oh, no,” I said, “not all
those, I couldn’t really. Just one
—just one,” I begged ; but he was
pouring the whole bagful into
my shrinking hands.
One fell on the floor, a wet
raspberry-colored cube; he
plunged down and picked it up,
leaving a sticky red mark, and
thrust it back with the rest. I
could only hold them in despair,
both hands full. Absently he
folded the paperbag and put it
in his pocket.
“You see,” he was saying,
“I’m such a very lonely man.
My wife—my third wife that is
—well, it doesn’t matter; and
then I saw you, and I thought—
you’re all alone too, aren’t you?
But I’m so very shy, I didn’t dare
to speak to you, really I didn’t.
Mr. Moros at the cafe told
me you liked these, and so, you
see . . .”
Oh, dear, oh dear! I laid the
jujubes carefully on the green
park-seat; they swam a little,
evilly. “But, Mr. Henley-Cox,
I’m afraid”
“What? You know my
name?” he cried, transported.
“Already?”
“Dolores mentioned it,” I said
repressively. “I’m afraid” . . .
“And you —remembered! ” he
breathed. “Perhaps you even
asked ?”
“No, no, no—l ...” I looked
round for help. Nothing but the
rain, the wet theatre-posters . . .
“I TAKE THIS WOMAN” . . .
“TONIGHT WE MEET” . . .
“Tell me,” I cried, backing.
“What do you travel in?”
It was the right move. He
“What with the forty-hour week and ten-o'clock closing,
I admit it's hard to make the money see the distance.”
turned professional instantly.
“Hopkins Unequalled Products.
Fixeen—a sure cure for corns
or warts. And Hopkins Colder
Creams for facial perfection;
Hopkins Shining Hair-Oil” —
out from under the park-seat slid
a black suitcase —“the hair-oil,”
he explained, “is really for men,
of course; but this line, now.
This is just the thing for you.”
He turned a large wasp-waisted
bottle before my eyes, and
taking off the stopper, which was
shaped like a chorus-girl in a
black top-hat, nearly suffocated
me with a choking perfume of
petunias. “Only fifteen-shillings
for the large size. Stage
Favorite, by Hopkins.”
The gong saved me. “Perhaps
we’d better leave the rest until
afterwards,” I suggested.
“Shall I see you at dinner?”
he murmured, leaning towards
me and bringing with him a wave
of mingled whisky and petunias.
I nodded, not breathing. Indeed,
it would have been difficult to
have avoided him unless I had
missed dinner altogether. I
brushed my hair with a trembling
hand. Over the way Mr. Henley-
Cox, presumably brushing his
hair also, burst again into song.
“When I grow too old to dream,
I’ll have you to remember,” he
shouted, his tones succulent with
meaning. “You are the honey-
honeysuckle, I am the bee.”
TJUT the rain was slackening;
it had almost stopped. A
hunted creature, I ran down-
stairs and through the rain to
the garage. Mr. Trackson
opened up, a little surprised, a
dinner-fork still in his hand.
“Mr. Trackson,” I cried ; “if
it stops, you’ll go tomorrow
morning, won’t you? It is stop-
ping, isn’t it?”
Mr. Trackson looked all round
the sky and weighed the evi-
dence. “We may,” he said, “or
we may not. If it don’t rain any
more tonight, be here at six
in the morning and we may give
her a go. If it does rain, not a
chance.”
I went back apprehensively.
There sat Mr. Henley-Cox at
my table; in front of my place
stood the bottle of Stage
Favorite, and beside my plate
lay a pile of green, yellow and
red jujubes. “You left them
behind,” he said reproachfully.
I turned to Dolores, on the
point of framing a haughty
request for another table. But I
halted as I turned. Through the
curtains that screened the kit-
chen entrance a respectable coil
of grey hair projected, and
under it a stabbing glance; a
glance of accusation justified ; a
glance from a world of temper-
ance tracts, hairpins and Mis-
sion Bibles; a glance as grey as
rain. I gave it back as good as
I got; reckless, abandoned, I
sat down beside Mr. Henley-Cox.
If the bottle of Stage Favorite
had contained absinthe I would
have swallowed it at a gulp.
But halfway through dinner
the situation began to pass my
powers. Absently, between
courses, I ate of Mr. Henley-
Cox’s jujubes. He had reached,
in the story of his heart, his
second wife’s death; she had
learned the cornet by corres-
pondence, and was beginning to
play it lovely when she was
claimed by a ruptured appendix.
In the damp and steam-filled
shadows Mr. Henley - Cox
wavered before my eyes; lean-
ing towards me he, too, ate an
occasional jujube as he tried to
stare into my answering eyes.
Dolores said nothing, but she
must have noticed it.
Pale green lights began to pass
momentarily over the expanse
of Mr. Henley-Cox, over the
walls and the tablecloth. I
watched them, puzzled. Dolores
brought the sweets-course; pink
marble blancmange, emerald-
green jelly, a curlicue of artificial
cream. The lights intensified,
playing over this; the table
began to tilt, the room to swim
sideways. Enlightened, I swayed
to my feet and fled upstairs,
hearing behind me a plaintive
cry from Mr. Henley-Cox.
“Miss! Miss! You’ve forgotten
these again. Is something the
matter?”
T>ALE, wrecked, dazed after a
night of indigestion, I crept
downstairs at half-past five. The
rain was as though it had never
been ; outside, the cogs of the
world had re-engaged; a car or
two passed, a bird sang.
Mrs. Callnan waited spider-
like in the office; quite likely
she had been there all night. I
paid her; we spoke no word.
Outside the garage, in the
steaming early sunlight, stood the
mail-car for the north. The driver
and Mr. Trackson fussed round
the wheels, buckling on chains,
while I huddled in a sheltered
seat and gazed in rapture at my
freedom.
Round the hotel-corner swung
a car; it turned hurriedly into
the garage-entrance for petrol.
Through a vague haze of relaxa-
tion I heard the driver greet
Mr. Trackson with urgency.
“Put eight in her, Joe boy, and
don’t take too long. I’m on my
way this morning, and how.”
I started back in my seat, but
I was safely out of vision.
“Someone putting the finger
on you again, Cocky? Ibis
cove,” Mr. Trackson explained
to the driver, “is the one I was
telling you about. The one with
four breach-of-promise suits out
against him. Mrs. Callnan on
your trail this time, or is it
Dolores?”
“Don’t joke about it, Joe.
Worse than the drink, it is, and
a lot more expensive. I don’t
mind telling you I’m anxious to
get away. I’d sworn off this trip,
I had really; but I’m a lonely
man, and the whisky starts me
off. I knew I was done when that
rain started. Put ’em in, Joe,
there’s no time to waste.”
The mail-car driver climbed
into his seat and rolled a cigar-
ette. Leaning forward from my
concealment, I watched Mr.
Henley-Cox count out the money
into Trackson’s hand and spring
to the wheel of his car with a
feverish glance down the street.
As the glance returned, our eyes
met. The gears of his car cried
out in anguish as he swerved
over the kerb and away, a hare
before the hounds.
The mail-car followed a
moment later. But Mr. Track-
son’s meditative smile had
already poisoned for me the
freedom of my journey to the
north.
a special job. Some big tent-
poles were needed to build
shelters for homeless people in
a flooded town near Dubbo, and
the pbles were too long to be
handled in a Dakota.
The poles were loaded-up in
the Lincoln’s bomb-bays and
duly delivered.
The Lincoln had not come
empty from Queensland. Warm-
hearted people there had loaded
it with food-bags, and when it
got into radio-contact with
Dubbo, and received a pinpoint
for drops, the Lincoln had done
some food-dropping, with a
difference. It had used its bomb-
sights, and the accuracy of its
drops was remarkable.
It may have chalked-up a
moral, too. On their way to
Dubbo the crew of the Lincoln
had seen a woman at an isolated
farm holding her baby high
above her head.
The big plane had circled and
come back, and, with its lethal
bomb-sight, had dropped a sack
of baby-food right in the middle
of the marker.


Latest Australian Books
Obtainable from all recognised booksellers
WILD LIFE OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW GUINEA, by CHARLES BARRETT. A book
for young' nature lovers. 84 x 5L 229 pages. 35 illustrations. Cloth binding. William
Heinemann Ltd., Melbourne. 18/6.
LET'S LOOK AT THE WORLD, by V. G. N. CAWTE. Geography social studies. 9*
x 7i. 128 pages. 27 illustrations and maps. Paper cover. Rigby’s Ltd., Adelaide. 5/9.
STRANGE NEW WORLD, by ALEC H. CHISHOLM. The adventures of John and Ludwig
Leichhardt. 94 x 6|. 328 pages. 16 pages of illustrations and 2 maps. Cloth binding.
Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 30/-.
OVERLAND TELEGRAPH, by FRANK GLUNE. The building of the, link between Adelaide
and Port Darwin. 8J x sf. 256 pages. 15 pages of illustrations and 9 maps. Cloth
binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 18/9.
SOUTHWEST PACIFIC, by KENNETH B. CUMBERLAND. Australia and New Zealand
and their Pacific Island neighbours. 8f x s|. 366 pages. 99 illustrations and 93 maps.
Cloth binding. Whitcombe & Tombs Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 24/6.
CHILD WITH A COCKATOO, by ROSEMARY DOBSON. 'Verse. 8f x s|. 64 pages.
Cloth spine and paper boards. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 15/-.
AUSTRALIA, A Social and Political History, edited by Professor GORDON GREEN-
WOOD. 93 x 6J. 464 pages. 31 pages of illustrations and 8 maps. Cloth binding. Angus
& Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 45/-. , „ „„„„
THE LITTLE BLACK PRINCESS OF THE NEVER NEVER, by Mrs. /ENEAS GUNN.
De Luxe edition, limited to 500 numbered, autographed copies. 84 x 54. 107 pages. 13
illustrations and 1 map. Cloth binding. Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 30/-.
WE OF THE NEVER NEVER, by Mrs. AENEAS GUNN. De luxe edition, limited to
1,000 numbered, autographed copies, 84 x 64. 240 pages.. Nine illustrations and 1 map.
Cloth binding. Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 45/-. ■
YOU TOO CAN GROW ORCHIDS, by RALPH HANDCOCK and MARGARET SMITH.-
Simplified orchid growing. 10 x 71- 58 pages. 21 illustrations in black and white and 2 in
colour. Cloth binding. Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 15/6.
CHINESE RECIPES FOR HOME COOKING, by YEP HUNG lIEE. Easy instructions
for popular Chinese dishes. 5 x 74. 144 pages. 8 illustrations. Associated General
Publications Pty. Ltd., Sydney. Board cover 12/6, cloth binding 16/6.
THE BRIDE’S BOOK, by GRACE HUNTER and MARGARET RUTHERFORD. Wedding
procedure and dress designs. 11 x 84. 36 pages. 16 illustrations. Paper cover. Robertson &
STEPS DIMENSIONED" SKETCHING, by KENNETH RONALD LAMACRAFT. Junior
technical engineering drawing. 7 x 81. 104 pages. Over 100 line blocks. Paper cover.
Rigby Ltd., Adelaide. 6/9.
THE PRACTICAL HOME GARDENER, by T. R. L. LOTHIAN. Guide to the cultivation
of plants. 74 x 10. 372 pages. 100 illustrations. Cloth binding. Lothian Publishing Co.
Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. £4/15/-.
HERE’S LUCK, by L. W. LOWER. A humorous novel (new edition). 8 x SJ. 224 pages.
Eight line drawings. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 15/-. •
ALL ELECTRIC COOKERY BOOK, by Mrs. F. V. McKENZIE. Seventh edition of this
popular book. 54 x 84. 248 pages. Board cover. Associated General Publications Pty. Ltd.,
THE^*STORY OF WALTZING MATILDA, by SYDNEY MAY. The origin of music and
poem. 9 x s£. 216 pages. 77 illustrations and 4 maps. Cloth binding. W. K. bmitn &
INNS°AND OUTS, by GWEN MEREDITH and AINSWORTH HARRISON. Travel. 8| x ss.
256 pages. 15 pages of illustrations and endpaper map. Cloth binding. Angus «
N Ew" S SOCIAL Studies, SIXTH GRADE, by WILLIAM MORRIS. Educational textbook.
8 x 54. 263 pages. 63 illustrations. Manilla cover. Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 8/6.
MAKE YOUR STORIES SELL: Be Your Own Editor, by D’ARCY NIL AND. A valu-
able aid to young writers —and to many of the not-so-young. 71 x 4f. 112 pages. 7 line
drawings. Manilla cover. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 12/6 Q 9ns
LET THE BIRDS FLY, by VANCE PALMER. A selection of short stories. 8 x 51. 208
pages. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 16/-.
TAMBAI ISLAND, by R. S. PORTEOUS. A boy’s adventure story of the sea. 8 x Si.
182 pages. 9 illustrations and 1 map. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 12/6.
THE MAN IN THE SILO, by E. 0. SCHLUNKE. And other stories. 8 x 51- 224 pages.
Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 16/-.
AUSTRALIA’S GREAT BARRIER REEF, by VINCENT SERVENTY. A handbook on
shells, corals, animals, fish, birds, history, etc. 74 x 5. 96 P®S es - 8 pages of illustrations
in colour, 24 pages on black and white, and endpaper map. Cloth binding. Georgian House
FARM d by* LAWRENCE W. SHEARS. A simple method of bookkeeping.
81 x 53 115 pages. Cloth binding. Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 21/-. .
BETTER ROSES, by A. S. THOMAS. Rose growing for everyone, a completely revised
edition. 83 x sf. 306 pages. 12 pages in colour and 51 m black and white. Cloth
binding Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 30/-. .. .. . . . ,
TEN WICKED MEN, by E. V. TIMMS. An abridged version of the historical novel
MAELSTROM, first published in 1938. 8 x 51. 256 pages. Cloth binding. Angus &
Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 16/-.
The Australian Book Publishers' Association
CHURCHILL—HIS LIFE IN PHOTOGRAPHS
Edited by Randolph S. Churchill and Helmut Gemsheim
This outstanding pictorial record of
nearly 400 photographs contains many
pictures that have never been published
before, including some from private
albums. We see Churchill as War
Correspondent and Army Officer, as
parliamentarian and great war-time
leader, on the polo field and the race-
course, bricklaying at Chartwell and
painting in many parts of the world.
Helmut Gernsheim, a leading authority
on the history and aesthetics of photo-
graphy, has carefully chosen the photo-
graphs, and Randolph Churchill has
written the accompanying text, linking
the pictures by his commentary into a
continuous story of absorbing interest.
31/- (post 2/1)
,v* " -'tV'} {{,
89-95 Castlereagh
You’ll find these, and all the
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Street, Sydney - - 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l
Available at all booksellers
PRAY FOR A BRAVE HEART
An exciting new novel by the author of “I and My True
Love” and “Above Suspicion.”
HELEN MacINNES
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
of Vivarais, “five thousand feet
towards the stars”:—
A faint silvery vapor stood for
the Milky Way. All around me the
black fir-points stood upright and
stock-still. By the whiteness of the
pack-saddle I could see Modestine
walking round and round at the
length of her tether ; I could hear
her steadily munching at the sward;
but there was not another sound,
save the indescribable quiet talk of
the runnel over the stones.
“She loved to eat out of my hand,”
says Stevenson at the end, when he is
recounting Modestine’s virtues after
selling her; “She was patient, elegant
in form, the color of an ideal mouse,
and inimitably small”; and, he might
have added, she gave him half the
charm that makes his book a classic,
But so, too, donkey or no donkey,
is there a legendary quality, something
of universal appeal, when a man sets
out to wander and camp in remote
places, alone and free upon the earth.
And this is the other half of the abid-
ing fascination 'of the “Travels.” It is
a book that never falters in describing
either men or mountains: the peasant
who would not show him his way when
he was lost; the wild night he spent
camping out in the thunderstorm; the
priests at the monastery of Our Lady
of the Snows; and that other, supremely
beautiful night on the mountainside
when, grateful for his night’s lodging,
he left silver coins lying on the grass.
It leaves one amazed at Stevenson’s
artistry, which, however you may
analyse it into economy, precision and
cadence, remains utterly mysterious
when you consider how fine and firm
a book he contrived to make out of
what was, after all, only a walkabout
with a donkey.
Reviewed Briefly
Strange New World: Alec H. Chis-
holm (Angus and Robertson). This is
a revised and enlarged edition, with
illustrations, of the book first published
in 1941; based on the diary of the
naturalist John Gilbert, who was
speared by natives while accompany-
ing Leichhardt on his 1844-45 expedi-
tion from Brisbane to Port Essington.
It is fascinating for its narrative,
both of Gilbert’s bird-watching and
Leichhardt’s exploring; marred, as in
the first edition, by Mr. Chisholm’s
awkward attempts to deal out justice
and castigation to an explorer for
whom, unfortunately, he seems to have
developed a dislike.
* * * *
Australia; a Camera Study: Frank
Hurley (Angus and Robertson). Chiefly
because so many of the plates are in
color—and reproduced with a rare
delicacy and subtlety —one could not
imagine a better gift- or souvenir-book
than this survey of the Commonwealth
by an acknowledged photographic
expert. Filled-out with many black-
and-whites and all accompanied by an
informative commentary, these color-
plates include Cape Leeuwin and Rott-
nest Island with the beautiful blues and
greens of shallow sea-water, Sydney’s
rocky “Gap,” Manly swarming with
surfers, several lovely studies of wild-
flowers from various States, the Three
Sisters and Jenolan, black-opals from
Lightning Ridge, three of the Barrier
Reef (where most of the rock-pools
seem to contain, as well as fish, beauti-
ful brunettes), the golden cliffs of “The
Hazards” in Tasmania, superb views of
Wittenoom Gorge and the Western
Gorge in the Hammersley Range, and,
though Ayers Rock seems to lack
modulation of color, a fine set of red-
and-gold pictures from Centralia. There
is a vigorous foreword by T. A. G.
Hungerford; and industries and sport
as well as scenery are covered.
<* *r V
Scales of Justice: Ngaio Marsh
(Collins). Miss Marsh has made a
better-than-usual job of this murder in
lush English countryside. There is the
dying lord of the manor suddenly at
loggerheads with the colonel over a
mysterious chapter of autobiography,
and his middle-aged son running after
the colonel’s not-quaite-naice wife, and
the affair between the grandson and
the colonel’s daughter compromised by
these matters, and curious old Mr.
Danberry-Phinn harboring a grievance,
and a retired naval officer, who knows
more than he should about the colonel’s
■wife, shooting Mr. Phinn’s cats with
arrows and > resisting the advances of
the district-nurse on her bicycle . . .
And then the good old colonel is found
murdered, in the act of cleaning a
fabulous trout of the local stream, and
it becomes a case for Chief Detective-
Inspector Alleyn. The green country
and the cottages are desirably painted
and the plot and detection are good.
.* * V *
The Small Comer: Elizabeth
Montagu (Heinemann). The narrator
of this book is Henrietta Sotherby, a
slightly dotty frustrated spinster who,
with what she imagines are the purest
of motives, sets herself out to effect a
reconciliation between a husband and
wife with whom she is staying. It is
not at all a pleasant novel, but it is
extremely well-written and very plaus-
ibly contrived and by no means inferior
to, say, Simenon on the same theme.
* * * *
An Eye for a Yacht: D. Phillips-
Burt (Faber). Though the author has
restricted his survey to British and
American craft, mainly British, this
large, handsome, illustrated book
should be of great interest to Aus-
tralian yachtsmen. It is a history of
the evolution of the yacht and yacht-
design, up to the latest cruiser-racers
and beyond them to one extremely
advanced craft which looks like an
overturned launch —Mr. Phillips-Burt
says it is light and dry, but bumps.
There are plans and diagrams as well
as photographs, and the text is
pleasant to read.
* * * *
The Slaughterhouse Informer:
Edward Hyams (Longmans). Light-
weight English novel about a group of
writers in Kent who take over the
trade-paper which gives the book its
title and turn it into a muckraking
literary and political magazine;
whereby the author is enabled to
satirise everything from literary coteries
to beauty competitions. Thinly
amusing.
* * * *
The Public Philosophy: Walter Lipp-
mann (Hamilton). A well-written book
about what’s wrong with democracy
and what’s more wrong with Com-
munism and Fascism; and about how
democracy which Mr. Lippmann
pleasingly defines as “civility”— may
be maintained and refreshed.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 344
Across
I—Plant the century legislation
against us. (6)
4—Letters for Burl’s daughter? (8)
9—“ Bomb” one puss before you and
the Marxist are burlesqued. (11)
H—Girlie, 1 work in the Caruso
industry as a wine-clarifier. (9)
-—Bird which initiates every good
rice eater’s treat. (5)
b—Daylight beats evens. (8)
b—Reappear fruitlessly to harvest
when about to pop back. (4)
< 7 —Fold grub. (4)
19—A malicious gossip goes to a
hairdresser in an underground
cemetery. (8)
-2—Moulding shaped like an egg
running rings around a small
volume. (5)
-3—Jolson has swallowed Pop
Tutankhamen’s missus of the
morning. (9)
M~He doesn’t pedal Ella Wilcox
out of jail. (4-7)
25 Miles from the cannibal cooks
achievement with McCabe. (8)
26 X. Juan has a muscular attach-
ment. (6)
Down
1 — See a feature land with loud
laughter! (12)
2 Dresses horses for courses. (7)
3 Rum guy is not powerfully
convincing. (8)
5 Sir Diogenes upset a Welsh hero.
(5)
6 Saturated turf hide-out. (6)
7 This Hobson’s choice! (7)
8 — Fatty tumor caused by having
tea with Tom in South Australia.
(8)
10 —March offspring! (4-8)
14 —Closeburg within cooee of the
big smoke. (4, 4)
16 —The harbor and I before the
curtain in the doorway. (8)
18—Chorale adapted for a killer. (7)
20 — Badly mismanaged stopper was
in the van. (7)
21 — An Australian bounder had a
meal under cover. (6)
23—Teems with hunt-club functions.
(5)
Solution to Crossword No. 343


vS % '
Wto /
ii
HI *■ “ < -' |S> i
m - - :v S •, *> .:-«' (If
58K W"v v » __ .
*w>
1
' ,:'
:
1
Is
- -
rn^rn
m*m
UtosKv,
r~ '
SJPMfe,
m
t-.
: l
to " 1 B
■
4
WNIONST
Ration
on
»"»: - V % 'L&i' ' v
m
Your
own
®ef c
/ondl
mm*
**iy # ***
f o<
IA
Sajis
6 r afc**-
«?eii| f®**
y ft fa j ® t
«*&£. of
•"‘hr t? * *«
s,r °Hon tf
MAXIMUM
SOIL
DEVELOPMENT
in every type
of country . . .
Z^^SfSSt
it the most revoiu years,
fural implement .n a „__«.
Illustrated is the Graham Model "F" 6ft. Spring Clamp Trailing Plow. Price, £295
Only the
GRAHAM
—the original and genuine chisel plow possesses
and way ahead features:—
these far
* An exclusive patented oscil-
lating digging spring mechanism
that automatically increases its pressure
on a stump or obstruction from 600 to
2,000 lbs. per shank. (If the stump is
too firm for this pressure, the point will
pull over it.) It makes for easier digging
in any type of country.
★ The new patented CLAMP-
ON-TlNE—
the longest-wearing cultivating point
ever manufactured. It is simply fed
down to compensate for wear.
* An exceptional guarantee:
Main frame for 2 years. Coiled digging
springs and shanks for 12 months
unconditionally against bend or break.
★ The extra strength and resi-
liency—
a penetrating capacity to rapidly give
the maximum possible development of
soil-fertility in every type of country.
Because of the Graham's many exclusive features, no other cultivating
implement is capable of so much
llr Builds a mulch into the
soil.
'jAr Doubles the subsoil mois-
ture.
Cultivates from 2 inches
to more than 16 inches.
★ Prevents erosion by water
and wind.
Gives a perfect seed bed
easier, quicker.
Quickly builds soil fer-
tility.
Shatters the hard pan.
Cultivates the rough,
rocky or stump country
that no other implement
will stand.
Builds a better pasture —
better crop yields.
Conserves soil moisture.
Produces a better pasture
—better crop yields.
GRAHAM FIOW
Patented, throughout the world and manufactured in Australia under licence from the
GRAHAM-HOEME PLOW CO., AMARILLO, TEXAS, U.S.A., by
YEOMANS PROPRIETARY
LIMITED
537 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY. MX 1784-MX 1884
Agents throughout Australia
ijeotnafU
introduce the
BUNYIP
LEVEL
ms •
■>
-t* ? j
to Farmers,
Graziers,
Engineers, Plumbers,
Builders, Landscape
Gardeners.
—and to anyone who needs
to find a level 4 for laying in
contours, sloping drains or to
determine a variation in
height.
The Bunyip Level is simple
and accurate, foolproof and
fast. Whilst remarkably low-
priced, it will do the job
more efficiently than the
highest priced instrument. As
simple to operate in the hands
of a 10-year-old as the quali
fied engineer.
The Bunyip Level sells at
£ll/17/6
(Freight Free)
FARMERS! You need the
Bunyip Level. Makes every
man his own engineer. Write,
'phone or wire.
YOUR CREDIT IS GOOD
Immediate Delivery
• •••••
Another exclusive Yeomans’
product is
the new Agricultural Aid
• “Ag-Yo” sells at
33/6
per 5 cubic foot bag
# First lot to farmers freight
free. This price includes 2/6
for the hessian bag which is
refundable or an allowable
deduction for bags returned
in perfect condition.
Repeated tests have shown
that “Ag-Yo” is the only
material that will satisfactorily
flow lime or ground gypsum
through a combine. When
seed is sown with “Ag-Yo”
and lime in the mixture the
“Ag-Yo” and lime act as a
starter for strong germination
and a good strike. “Ag-Yo”
can be used in aerial agri-
culture for the spreading of
fertilizers, inoculants, cultures,
insecticides and weedicides.
It has many other uses.
fMCUITURAL A
(( *M
±253
Fill in this Coupon and
send to us for full facts
of the GRAHAM PLOW,
the BUNYIP LEVEL and
AG-YO.
NAME
ADDRESS
