

*lk
• >*•
When it’s an occasion for Congratulations
it’s an occasion for
‘/"'wines
The Bulletin
DOUBLE-SIZED JUBILEE ISSUE: 1880-1955
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3912
Wednesday, February 2, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission byPost as a Newspaper
F)R many centuries Glastonbury, in the
heart of Somerset, has been associated
with the earliest beginnings of Christianity
in England and the Abbey ruins are today
visited by thousands of people from many
parts of the world, just as their fore-
runners did in the Middle Ages. The
early pilgrims paid their visits to the
reputed shrine of St. Joseph of Arimathea
in pious veneration whereas the modem
visitor worships perhaps at the shrine of
antiquity, for the origin of Glastonbury
is lost in legend and mystery. The Chris-
tian foundation survived the storms of
Saxon, Danish and Norman conquest and
it presents a continuity of religious life
unequalled in any other part of Britain.
According to legend, St. Joseph of
Arimathea with eleven companions
landed in Wales and later wandered into
Somerset. One Christmas morning they
reached the Isle of Avalon and there they
decided to build a wattle church on the
site now occupied by part of the Abbey
ruins. The first actual record of the
-Abbey dates from 601 and in succeeding
years it grew in wealth and importance.
In 1184, however, most of the Abbey
was destroyed by a disastrous fire, but
rebuilding on a magnificent scale was
commenced at once and completed in
1303. After the Dissolution in 1539 the
Abbey buildings were neglected and were
later used as a stone quarry until pur-
chased by the Church of England in 1908.
On the west end of the Almshouse
Chapel may be seen today the Arms of
King Arthur. His association with Glas-
tonbury is mentioned by Tennyson in his
“Idylls of the King.” According to
legend King Arthur, after being wounded
by Mordred, was brought by boat to
Glastonbury in the hope that he might
be healed. There he threw his sword
“Excalibur” into the mere and there he
died. In the reign of Henry II (1154-
1189), the coffin of King Arthur and also
that of his Queen, Guinevere, were dis-
covered during excavations near the site
of the old church.
Standing in solitude in the middle of a
meadow near the Abbey ruins is the
Abbot’s Kitchen, shown in the accom-
panying illustration. This splendid
example of medieval architecture is all
that remains of the great range of
domestic buildings that formed the secular
part of the Abbey. It was built during
the early 14th century for the purpose of
preparing food for pilgrims and guests
and at that time it adjoined the Great
Hall.
THE ABBOT’S KITCHEN, SOLE SURVIVOR OF GLASTONBURY’S SPLENDOUR


Learn
Story Writing
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list, hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stotts Correspondence College
10,0 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfeil
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
‘CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON —!
I To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli- |
I gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of |
| your Literary Courses.
I MY NAME
| ADDRESS
j(S.B. 356) AGE
Let BOOKHUNTER select and buy your
books for you. Write now to BOOK-
HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney. Quick
service moderate charges.
The Red Page
A TRIBUTE TO ARCHIBALD
By NORMAN LINDSAY
It was my friend Jack Elkington
who brought about my meeting with
Archibald and “The Bulletin.” He
carried to Sydney from Melbourne
some early drawings of mine illustrat-
ing Boccaccio, which he apparently
had more faith in than I did.
He must have indulged himself in
some effective work as advance-agent
to those immature efforts, for the
effect of his good offices was a brief
note from J. F. Archibald enclosing a
gag and a piece of verse to be illus-
trated. I won’t enlarge on the techni-
cal anguish I went through trying to
transfer a decorative treatment of pen-
work to the realistic requirements of
a joke-gag. The result was pretty
awful, but apparently it found some
favor in Archie’s eyes, for by return
post he sent me a cheque for a fiver
Five pounds was a lot of money in
those days; worth about twenty pounds
of our debased currency today. I was
temporarily dazed to discover that a
couple of pen-and-ink drawings could
command such a sum. Seven-and-six
was the average prepaid for a draw-
ing by such journals as required them;
jam-labels and hair-restorer ads.
usually went at half-a-crown apiece.
When it was proposed that I should
come across to N. S. Wales with a
prospect of work from “The Bulletin”
I detached myself from Melbourne in
a flurry of excitement and took boat
for Sydney.
The great event of that year was
the opening of the first Federal Par-
liament, and George, Duke of York,
had arrived to open it. He put me to
an immense amount of trouble by
arriving in Sydney the same day as
I did. Flags, bands, banners and
triumphal arches everywhere, and not
a room to be had anywhere in pubs
and boarding-houses. It was only after
tramping Sydney all day that I got
half a room in a lodging-house on
Miller’s Point. All that mob-turmoil
meant nothing to me otherwise. I was
agitated by one preoccupation only:
the awful problem of presenting my
manifest insufficiencies to the august
inspection of J. F. Archibald.
It is hard at this date to convey the
almost esoteric reverence with which
Archie and “The Bulletin” were
regarded in those days. “The Bulletin”
(as it still is) was the only cultural
centre this country possessed. It
dominated opinion wherever opinion
was looking for an intelligent outlook
on life and art. It had startled into
being a genuine urge of nationalism.
It maintained a high standard in prose
and poetry, and black-and-white art
was getting in its pages a first chance
for individual expression. Over all
that loomed the mysterious figure of
Archibald, sardonic, benevolent, ruth-
less, encouraging, a final arbiter of
values, an omnipotent maker or
breaker of reputations.
Archie was subtle; he knew the
value of being a force rather than a
presence. Though he built his paper
on personality, he was careful to keep
his own hidden. He dodged all per-
sonal publicity, never, in those days,
allowed a photograph of himself to be
published, and met very few people
outside immediate contacts with the
paper. In our small circle of writers
and artists, anyone who had met him
was questioned with passionate interest
for details which might illuminate his
mysterious identity. It was known
that he wore a beard; that was all that
I, personally, knew about him.
With all that in my mind I arrived
at the old “Bulletin” office in lower
George-street in a perfect swither of
funk. I spent the whole morning lurk-
ing about the office before I could
bring myself to enter it, and that was
at the absurd calling-hour of one
o’clock. Of course Archie was out at
lunch, but his secretary, Percy, was
there, and to him I introduced myself,
He gave me a chair and a paper and
told me J.F.A. would be in shortly.
The chair was behind the door of a
small narrow office in which there was
only room for Archie’s desk, Percy’s
typewriter and a large cupboard,
stored, as I discovered later, with
specially selected MSS. over which
Archie used to chuckle like a miser
over his hoard. I don’t know how
long my ordeal of waiting to be
inspected lasted, but Archie’s arrival
exploded it effectively. He came in
with a rush, made straight for his
desk and, with his hat on his head, a
stick under his arm and a cigar in his
mouth, snatched up some copy and
began reading it with avidity...
By that entrance Archie revealed
the prime motive of his being, a passion
for copy, but at the moment it
embarrassed me extremely, as I hadn’t
the aplomb to emerge from my lurking-
place and introduce myself. Percy
did that for me by going over and
whispering to Archie, who turned
round to discover me with just the
same accent of gusto with which he
had pounced on his copy. I was
potential copy, anyway.
After giving me a welcome, and a
cigar, he asked me to excuse him while
he sent off a few sticks of copy to the
printer. Of course he saw that I was
extremely nervous, and he gave me
that interval to compose my ill-ease,
which it did. Friendliness and under-
standing are emanations to which all
decently constituted youth responds on
the spot, and Archie had the art of
imparting both in half a dozen words.
I sat and smoked my cigar and
marked him with interest: an active,
average-sized figure, a pointed brown
beard, a big generous nose and alert
eyes with the corner wrinkles of
humor, and the whole spirit of the
man on wires with vitality and interest
in the spectacle of life.
It is a pleasing thing for me to recall
that first meeting, which begot a
friendship that lasted to the end of
Archie’s life and, for me, still lasts.
I never had a disagreement with him
from beginning to end, which, in the
edgy, snipy, resentful world of
journalism, is something of a record.
With the copy disposed of, he took
me out for a walk, down George-street
to the Quay, across to Man-o’-War
Steps and into the gardens, through
them to the Domain and out into
King-street. We talked all the way—
another evidence of Archie’s ability to
take measure of an unknown youth
and put him at ease. I was just twenty,
and at that age ideas refuse to fit
themselves precisely to speech; but,
such as my ideas were, Archie got
them out of me.
I remember trying to explain a con-
cept of life and art based on Rabelais
and Nietzsche. He appeared to listen
with sympathy, though I daresay he
thought me a fair specimen of muddle-
headed youth. I know now, of course,
that he was mainly intent on trying to
find out what sort of possible car-
toonist or joke-block illustrator he had
got hold of.
All through that walk he never lost
the opportunity of directing my atten-
tion to the humors of character, in
which I didn’t need direction, for I was
just as interested as he was in the mad
gambit of personality played on the
human exterior. I remember in lower
George-street he stopped to chuckle
ecstatically over an old woman in a
butcher’s shop... “By George, now,
look at that old girl fingering a round
of beef. Doesn’t she love it —what!
She’s calculating how much it will cut
for the family—eight of them, I bet,
and the old man’s a wharflumper. The
human belly! By George, it’s the seat
of most human aspiration. Fill it and
you’ve beaten the struggle for
existence.... ”
Coming out into King-street he
directed our attention to another item
in the great human spectacle, the pleas-
ing one of a young girl in short skirts
with long curls down her back; one of
those full-breasted, big-legged girls
who sprout into full maturity about
the age of fourteen. Archie loved
looking at girls; so did I. No man is
worth a damn unless the spectacle of
femininity has an eternal interest for
him. Of that one he said, “By George,
now, look at that kid’s legs. Now,
now there’s a pair of legs that could
get a man a jail-sentence and a lashing
into the bargain, with half a dozen
words to a policeman!”
That was to touch on another of
Archie’s obsessions: the iniquitous
administration of the law in cases of
alleged rape. In those days any black-
mailing slavey could go into the
witness-box and swear away a man’s
liberty and reputation on her unsup-
ported statement. It was Archie’s
long fight against the Law’s malevo-
lent wowserism in that respect that
brought about its present rationality
over rape cases. I know he fought one
case over a number of years; seven, I
think, and finally got the man involved
liberated on the girl’s confession that
she had fabricated the charge against
him.
I stayed on in Sydney and was estab-
lished on the paper’s staff, and I have to
thank Archie’s sympathetic under-
standing of my particular problem in
black-and-white that kept me there.
It was not only my own uncertain
craftsmanship I had to struggle with.
Photo-etching in those days was in a
highly experimental state, and was
unable to translate any subtlety of tone
or line. Macleod, the manager, was
always nagging at me to turn out
imitations of Phil May, while all my
own efforts were to find an etchable
technique that would allow a full
gamut of tone. It’s a damnable piece
of ironic humor that today, when
etchers can hold on the metal an
extreme delicacy of line, black-and-
white artists have resorted to a more-
or-less crude technique which would
have been perfect for the etchers of
those days, and have rejected all the
resources of refinement placed at their
disposal by modem etchers.
A capacity to love the created
works of others is a virtue given to
few, and Archie had it in a supreme
degree. All work of quality was
treasure-trove to him. He bought and
hoarded stories and verse and draw-
ings which kept appearing in the paper
long after he had ceased editing it.
Pars were his own speciality. He
would chuckle exultantly ove* a piece
of wit and communicate it with gusto.
Apart from humor, he was able to
infuse one with emotion where his
own feelings were deeply stirred. I
remember coming in, to discuss the
cartoon for next issue one Thursday
morning to find him pacing the office
in a tremendous state of excitement
over a burning question of the moment.
This was the hanging of a woman who
had been convicted of her husband’s
murder and condemned to death. The
woman was pregnant, and the legal
quandary could not decide whether to
hang her at once or wait till her child
was born. The decision arrived at
was that she should be kept in jail till
the child was bom and then hanged.
Archie was in a ferment of Outraged
humanity over the business. “ By
George, those legal ghouls are pre-
pared to drag that woman out of a bed
of childbirth and throw her to the
hangman. Hang her and be done with
it; that’s bad enough, but to let her
have that kid with the hangman wait-
ing for her is damnable. By George,
we’ll have to have a cartoon on it
strong enough to get through even their
pachydermatous hides...”
The cartoon as evolved was one
of the condemned woman in bed
stretching out an arm to the newborn
infant, with such terror on her face
as an exercise in pen-strokes might
devise, while a nurse stood beside the
bed and the hangman loomed over it
with his rope. At its foot stood Irvine,
the Victorian Premier, watch in hand,
waiting for the fatal hofir to strike.
Irvine had refused petitions to
reprieve the woman. I was told later
that a friend of his, meeting him in
Collins-street on the day that issue of
“The Bulletin” was published, handed
it to Irvine open at that cartoon, with
a casual “Seen this, Irvine?” He
studied the cartoon with an expres-
sionless face, passed it back and moved
on without a word. But Mrs. Sanger
was not hanged; she got a life-
sentence instead. Irvine afterwards
admitted that he couldn’t get rid
of that cartoon’s implication of
inhumanity in himself.
I am no humanist. But I liked pleas-
ing Archie, and he was able to stir
up in me at least an intellectual
reaction to his states of emotion over
the human madhouse. It was the same
thing over the Boer War cartoons,
which aroused such a frenzy of jingo-
istic exasperation in the public, and
along with the paper’s general policy
about the war, nearly ruined it. I
think the public was right in this
instance and Archie in the wrong. It
has been, up to this, Britain’s job to
push civilised conditions into the
earth’s crude spaces, and a lot of
wowseristic Bible - thumping Boer
farmers were only obstructing a Roman
occupation of the earth’s surface.
All the same, Archie’s moral
courage was magnificent. He risked
his paper and was quite prepared to
risk his body in defence of his opinions.
He was lunching at a restaurant once
where his presence aroused a demon-
stration of hostility. Archie stood up
and addressed the demonstration in
terms of mordant scorn. “...By
George, if you people got what you
deserved you’d have your farms burnt
and your daughters raped and your
sons sent to concentration-camps and
your country given over to a lot of
boodling profiteers.”
His physical courage was just as
unquestionable. When two jingo
huskies arrived at his office with a
horsewhip to give him a trouncing he
went for them with his long editorial
scissors and drove them downstairs
I could go on giving instances of
Archie’s intense preoccupation with
the spectacle of life, his shrewdness in
summing-up human personality and his
quick perception of values in art, but
all that would overrun a brief sketch
of my own personal contact with him.
As I have said, that endured up to the
time of his death. His mental break-
down, which sent him into the asylum
o Continued, on page 66)
ACKNOWLEDGMENT TO
NORMAN LINDSAY
Thin solvency is proud, eats weeds.
I, being borrower yet
whom the sun warms and turned soil feeds,
claim there is honor in debt.
Much 1 acknowledge owed: the sight
of the mind quickened and stirred
to vast realities-—tremblings of light
become a shape or a word.
I own the whole attitude to the task
derived—thence anything won
through effort. For we take, we ask,
we do not repay the sun.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.


Mighty oaks
from little acorns grow!
The history of Anthony Horderns’ is the history of Sydney itself, for Sydney’s destiny is our destiny. Our
history began when Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Hordern landed at Sydney Cove on 6th August) 1823. In the
same month Mrs. Hordern opened her “Bonnet Shop’’ at No. 17 King Street. This little business soon
developed far beyond the capacity of so small a shop; so, in 1844, Anthony Hordern II set up in business at
389 George Street, Brickfield Hill. •
Thus, Anthony Horderns’ were established and continued to flourish as a Retail Department Store. As these
premises in turn became too small, Anthony Horderns’ moved to larger buildings in the Haymarket in 1856.
The business now forged ahead at an amazing pace, for this was the era of gold discovery, and the colony
was increasing in population and commercial importance.
Many Sydneysiders to-day still remember the disastrous fire which completely gutted Anthony Horderns’ on
the 10th July, 1901. And how, the very next morning, by an amazing Jfeat of organisation the store was “open
for business as usual’’ in the temporary premises provided in the Exhibition Building, Prince Alfred Park,
near the Railway.
Anthony Horderns’ present building was commenced in 1901, and completed in 1904, with the exception of
the fifth floor and the Goulburn Street Tower, which were added in 1914.
To-day, this famous Sydney landmark stands symbolic of 131 years of service and fair dealing. Through the
centuries, the name of Anthony Horderns’ has been to generations of Australians throughout the Commonwealth
a household word for integrity and honest trading.
To-day, still in-our youth, because of our undaunted faith in Australia itself, we at Anthony Horderns’ are
planning for an even greater future. To-day, we are working on the modernisation and reconstruction of a
store, so magnificently built in its day, which must of necessity be continually kept “up to the minute” in
decor and contemporary presentation. With each improvement a new link is forged in our chain of progress.
We plan for your pleasure, convenience and service whilst shopping in the store. The Directors extend a
cordial invitation to you to view our already beautified floors. All these additional service and shopping
features represent the material fulfilment of our renowned slogan
While I live I’ll grow
9?
if
3 -
if
Ml
\ m
Mi
mm
it mi
Bin
m
in
111
111
111
is
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LTD. SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Wednesday, February 2, 1955
% Vol. 76—No. 3912
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth. I
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
A PAPER AND A POLICY
THREESCORE-AND-FIFTEEN years ago, when
John Haynes and John Feltham Archibald issued
the first “Bulletin,” they issued a declaration of
Australian independence in thought and social
behavior. After a few precarious years of publi-
cation, with the coming of W. H. Traill and James
Edmond, the declaration became political and
economic as well, with particular emphasis on
White Australia and Protection. The new weekly
paper was to become popular and a. power in the
land. It offered national leadership to a young and
vigorous community, and a means of literary and
political self-expression. Soon its policy was
abundantly supported by its readers, by writers and
by black-and-white artists.
“The Bulletin” for 75 years has told Aus-
tralians what it believes to be best for Australia.
Not all Australians have immediately agreed with
it. Sometimes it has found popular opinion against
it—as during the Boer War —and at other times it
has been “right too soon” for public taste. When,
in the present generation, the Dean of Canterbury’s
“Socialist Sixth of the World” was popular reading,
“The Bulletin” found it difficult to convince people
of the rising menace of Communism. And its criti-
cism of United States concessions to the Soviet at
Yalta and Potsdam had a lukewarm- reception at
the time. But almost everyone has the “Red Dean’s”
measure by now. And the Petrov affair has con-
vinced most Australians who needed, convincing
that behind the Iron Curtain there exists a schem-
ing, menacing Power—a nation of ill-will towards
the civilised world if ever there was one.
In its time “The Bulletin” has had only six
editors. Of the five past editors it can be said that
each played a particular part in the paper’s
development. First there was J. F. Archibald, who
endowed it with its originality and its audacious
personality. Then there was Traill, who broadened
its character and added to its substance, importing
artists of the brilliance of Livingston Hopkins
(“Hop”) and Phil May, at the same time pioneering
the photo-engraving process in Australia.
James Edmond, even before he became editor,
was a profound influence on the political side of
the journal, and an inimitable humorist. His humor
was most effective when he employed it in the
course of a leading article on a sober political or
economic subject. He was in his element during
the period just before Federation, and for several
years after it. A brilliant and prolific writer
•indeed.
S. H. Prior, who had conducted the “Wild Gat
Column,” succeeded Edmond in 1915, and was
in the chair during almost the entire period
of Australia’s active participation in World War I
and the Prime Ministership of W. M. Hughes (when
David Low, as a political cartoonist, made a world-
wide reputation). But Prior was not himself
greatly interested in politics as such. He had a
habit of quoting Pope: “For forms of government,
let fools contest; Whate’er is best administer’d is
best.” His greatest editorial contribution was prob-
ably during the depression of 1929-33, when his
lucid and wise economic articles were a guiding-
light during a time of extreme ‘ economic and
political confusion. His writings on matter-of-
fact subjects had a polish and human appeal that
were unique. Like Traill, he became managing-
director as well as editor. A reserved but kindly
man, he was a firm friend of “The Bulletin’s”
contributors and artists.
When S. H. Prior died (in harness) in 1933 he
was succeeded by John E. Webb, who had- come
from West Australian journalism in 1920 as a leader-
writer, later to become associate-editor. While
associate-editor he had startled and aroused Aus-
' tralia by his slaughtering attack on J. T. Lang, then
Premier of N. S. Wales. It is doubtful if a
man in N.S.W. public life ever before had to suffer
in silence such an editorial slashing. In Webb’s
time—the aftermath of the depression, the World
War II period, and the early post-war years—
world Communism was ever on the march; and
Webb was the watchful and untiring enemy of
Communism. He discerned the influence of Russia
in Europe’s troubles —such as the Spanish civil
war—long before World War 11, and was con-
stantly warning Australia of Russia’s anti-Western
aims even during the censorship of World War 11.
Webb, who retired in 1948, was a journalist without
peer in Australia during his editorship, unequalled
as a writer of terse, pointed paragraphs, and one
who, in general, became more expressive the fewer
words he used. He was a merciless sub-editor of
any dull or clumsy line that might come before him
in a proof. To Webb books and writing were
vital things. He lived completely for his work, as
Edmond had done before him, and 'whom he
still regards as “the only genius I have known.”
Today “The Bulletin” publishes in an Aus-
tralia that has been badly served for a generation
by Socialist political parties and, for the most part,
a pandering daily press. Opportunism has been
the rule in high places much too often, and
honest endeavor has sometimes had ridicule as its
only reward. The present Menzies Government,
which showed great courage in its attempts to stop
the demoralising inflationary boom of 1951, was
attacked on all sides by pressure-groups and the
daily press, especially in Sydney. “The Bulletin”
supported the Government’s policy to the hilt,
though criticising some details of the administra-
tion of it. Today the Federal Government’s
economic policy during the inflationary crisis is
mostly acknowledged to have been right, whatever
the shortcomings of the Administration in other
respects.
The job of honest, efficient government today
is difficult since the advent of the unscrupulous
something-for-nothing politician and the organised
pressure-group. Yet Governments never before
controlled so much of a nation’s destiny or so much
of the individual’s money. Tightly centralised and
far-reaching, too, is the power of the trade-unions;
and again power has brought corruption.
All over Australia the influence of Govern-
ment and trade-union policy is manifest. Because
of the fiscal powers of Governments and the
“regulating” powers of trade-unions over employ-
ment and production* the nation to a large extent
goes forward or backward according to how these
powers are used. And when a Labor Government
is in power the trade-unions and the Government
of the day amount to the same thing.
Federal and State Governments shape the
fate of the people to an extent the Fathers of
Federation never visualised —in fact, few people in
1939 foresaw the effects World War II and the
introduction of the Welfare State would have on the
lives of people in our time. “The Bulletin,” more
than any other Australian newspaper, has devoted
its attention, in editorial and cartoon, to the national
economic problems which have arisen out of the
post-war political melting-pot. And its forecasts
of the consequences of Socialist government have
been generally borne out by experience. With the
growth of Socialist totalitarianism and the increas-
ing power of pressure-groups, up to 1949 govern- x
ment of the people, by the people and for the
people was in serious danger of perishing from the
Australian continent.
The wage-earner is entitled to a fair deal—a
fair day’s pay for a fair day’s work. That is the
soundest principle on which, the national economy
can be built. And “The Bulletin” stands for the
rights of the man who is trying to improve his
position in the community by harder or more
skilled work; in improving his own status he
improves that of the community in which he lives.
It believes that enterprise and thrift should both
have their rewards, and that envy or jealousy on
the part of the less successful members of the*
community is no excuse for the political dragging-
down of the diligent and the skilled. And it believes
that profits and savings provide the bulk of the
capital necessary for our national development;
that without reasonable profits there will be no
capital and no development. The more “little
capitalists” there are in the community the more
progressive will it be.
“The Bulletin” has had the steady support
of writers over 75 years. It prints 90 per cent,
of the best Australian short-stories and verse that
are published in the Commoffwealth. Anthologies,
including “The Oxford Book of Australian Short
Stories,” are very largely “Bulletin” reprints. In
recent years “The Bulletin” has been printing
special feature articles of a factual nature on any
subject of interest- with which the writer has a
first-hand knowledge, and it. welcomes contributions
of this kind. As in the past, its own readers write
a large portion of “The Bulletin.” Reader-
contributions come in regularly from every State
of the Commonwealth, from New Zealand and
from the Pacific Islands, not to mention the odd
items that arrive from the most surprising places.
If there is a word of advice that “The Bulletin”
would offer to its creative writers, of verse and
prose, it is that they should try to interpret the
present-day scene more broadly and self-critically.
Perhaps a way to stimulate the effort would be for
someone to write a social novel based on the affairs
of a middle-class family in a better-class suburb,
with the threads of the story reaching out to country
cousins, friends in the forces, an M.P. relative, etc.
It should be a fascinating project.
"Labor's" Family Ghost
WHEN “The Bulletin” was founded in 1880 there
was no Labor party. In the interval between the
paper’s foundation-year and the present the party
was bom, it flourished and has corrupted into
decay.
Exactly when Labor died is not known, but it
started to decline after the conscription issue in
World War I, and sectarianism and Communism
have done deadly work since. What its assets are
remains to be seen when some executor can make
himself heard above the din of “Who Killed Cock
Robin?” and when all the claims of the political
heirs have been disposed of and the party ghost
has been exorcised.
This ghost, masquerading under the name
which Labor used proudly to apply to itself—
“ The Movement” —turns up at every A.L.P. meet-
ing, A.W.U. conference or press seance. It was
Dr. Evatt who raised it with incantations, but it
now appears to be responsive to the gesticulations
of any ambitious A.W.U. organiser or frightened
politician, especially if he has slept too close to
Moscow. Mr. Bukowski, the president of the
Queensland branch of the A.W.U., materialised it
at the A.W.U. conference last week and announced
that it had now begun operations in his State with
a salary-list of £5OOO a year at its disposal and “top
politicians whose names would make headlines” for
its haunted hosts. It certainly is a mischievous
wraith and a useful servant of Communist fellow-
travellers, who, while the heirs of the forgotten
socialisation objective quarrel about its malign
potency, are steadily taking possession of the unions
in disguise. In fact, the Communist philosophy
seems to be winning hands-down while Dr. Evatt
and Mr. Dougherty and Mr. Bukowski try to
exorcise the demon of Catholic Action.
At last week’s annual convention of the
A.W.U. Mr. Dougherty, its general secretary, said
“The Movement” was originally known as the
Catholic Political Movement, but it had gone
“haywire” and was taken from its original objective
of fighting Communism. It was a “secret society”
of which Mr. B. A. Santamaria was the brain and
dominating force. Its instructions were carried out
by the industrial-groups in the unions.
Mr. Dougherty added that when Mr. Clive
Evatt had seen how his brother, Dr. Evatt, had been
treated by “The Movement” he withdrew his sup-
port in the N.S.W. Cabinet for the Catholic
University Bill, and “the top man” in “The Move-
ment” thereupon decided that Clive should be put
out of N.S.W. Cabinet. (Brother Clive later
affirmed that he .had been “the victim of the
Santamaria movement.” Dr. Evatt refused to com-
ment. Mr. Santamaria said “There is no Catholic
organisation seeking to dominate the Labor party
or any other political party.” He added that
Catholics had banded together, over the last decade,
with others, to fight Communism, particularly in
the trade-unions.) Dougherty added that com-
pulsory-unionism in N.S.W. was the brainchild of
“The Movement.”
It is, of course, difficult to see what the true
position is, so loud is the shouting and abuse and
so thick the cloud of dust which hangs over the
various Donnybrooks. Occasional glimpses of
realities, however, emerge, and though they are
fleeting and are only of small corners of the battle
royal, they are illuminating.
The interior in Canberra which became
momentarily open to inspection was that of the
capital city’s A.L.P. branch, which, against the
opposition of Dr. Evatt’s supporters, put its solid
backing last week behind the industrial-groups to
the tune of 75 votes to four. The branch is Dr.
Evatt’s branch of the party, but in it it is obvious
that he hasn’t many supporters.
One of the few, it now appears, is Dr. Burton,
whom he raised from junior-clerk status to the
headship of the External Affairs Department. Dr.
Burton, who went to Peking as a member of a
Communist-sponsored delegation in 1952, is not
only still a member of the A.L.P. but Dr. Evatt’s
strong supporter, one who is engaged in trying to
have rescinded the resolutions which were so awk-
ward for his former benefactor. He is also reported
busy in an attempt to replace as member for
Canberra in the Commonwealth Parliament Mr.
Jim Fraser, brother of one of the most outspoken
critics of Dr. Evatt’s enemies only a few weeks ago.
So far there has not been any denial by
the “Labor” party’s executors that Dr. Burton
is connected with “Labor,” nor any assurance from
Dr. Evatt that he has no friendly association still
with his erstwhile henchman whom he so indignantly
repudiated after his return from his 1952 visit to
China and his support of the Communist Chinese
propaganda alleging that the Americans had
indulged in germ-warfare and other atrocities in
Korea.
Whatever influence the ghostly “Movement”
may have in the body which usurps the name of
“Labor,” there seems to be no question about where
“Labor” is going if it follows its present official
leader and/or some of his supporters within the
A.L.P.


J. F. ARCHIBALD, HIS BOOK


PLAIN ENGLISH
Australia and Formosa
Sections of the Sydney press, following
the line which they have adopted for
years, are eager that Australia should
jettison its connection with the British
Commonwealth and anchor itself to the
United States, which they believe has
superseded a decadent England as the
leading diplomatic Power and is the
certain immediate conqueror of China and
Russia should war break out in the East.
It is to be sincerely hoped that the
Australian Government will be better
advised. Formosa has no defence
significance for this country at present.
The ethical position in respect to it is
not one to develop great pride on either
side. It is 120 miles from the Chinese
coast. It is inhabited by people of
Chinese origin. It was part of China till
the Japanese took it by aggression. It
is occupied now by Chinese war-lords
whose own country has rejected them,
and who remain there by grace of United
States strength. Their present active
commander, Chiang Kai-shek’s son, was
brought up in Moscow in his formative
years. Formosa is defended from the
Communist Chinese Government by
American sea and air forces, whose only
right to defend it comes to them as the
conquering heirs of the Japanese.
It is taken for granted among the
raucous American newspapers and their
Australian followers in Sydney that the
fact that Britain does not think the
island worth the risk of a world war and
that every restraint should be used to
avoid one marks the British Government
out as decadent and. blundering.
But nearly all the big international
blunders of the last two decades have
been by Americans. The American press
did all in its power to egg Europe into
war in 1939, and all it could afterwards
to keep the Americans out. The Ameri-
cans were wrong about German strength.
They were wrong about the “phony war”'
and about what would happen ultimately
in the Battle of Britain. Though the
Japanese code was broken in July, 1941,
and U.S. authorities knew that the Japs
were bent on going into Malaya, they did
nothing—did not even advise Australia —
and might have done nothing later if the
Japanese had not made the mistake of
attacking Pearl Harbor. It was U.S. mis-
takes which held back the Western armies
from attacking in the Eastern Mediterran-
ean and gave the Russians control of
Hungary and Czechoslovakia. It was
their error again which forced the Wes-
tern armies to hold back and allow the
Russians to take over Germany up to
the Elbe. Their agreements at Yalta gave
Russia its new foothold in the East.
Their mistakes about Manchuria gave
Russia that vast territory formerly ljield
by the Japanese and made the Com-
munist revolution in China possible. They
were unsympathetic to Britain in India
and Burma. It was largely their pressure
which made Indonesia what it is. Their
policy gave Russia half of Korea to mind
and brought about the Korean war,
which they nearly lost through unpre-
paredness and lack of foresight.
In considering the Formosan position
nobody is, of course, considering the
Formosans. There are nearly as many of
them as there are Australians, but the
Atlantic Charter’s insistence of the appli-
cation of the law of self-determination
and of trusteeship seems to have been
waived in their case, as it has been in
any other areas of the Pacific which the
United States feels its own.
The island seems to be a very good
place for Australia to keep away from,*
unless we are absolutely forced to have
anything to do with it. Australia has
other responsibilities closer to home.
Even a victory by the West over China,
if it came to war over Formosa, would
not settle the matter. As an issue the
island’s future would continue to be a
problem. And it is a matter in which
Australian policy should go all the way
with Mr. Eden, who said last week that
the “first concern of the British Gov-
ernment has been, and is, to stop the
fighting.... .and prevent a wider con-
flagration.”
Fortunately, the Government at Can-
berra is not run by newspaper wishful-
thinking. Mr. Casey has pointed out
that the Manila Treaty boundary is south
of Formosa and its offshore islands, and
that “we are not committed in any way
to assist the United States in any mili-
tary action it might undertake on any
of these islands.” And Mr. Menzies has
repeated this viewpoint firmly in London.
Confusion Worse Confounded
Some of the details given by Mr. T.
Dougherty, the secretary of the A.W.U.,
of what has been going on inside the
“Labor” party—or what he says has been
going on —should be enough to drive
that party out of public life.
He and others must have known all
that was supposedly happening, if it did
happen; but an indication of the ethical
level of the party is that they apparently
regarded it merely as manifestation of a
private fight, nothing to make a general
outcry about, until it was necessary to
draw public attention from Dr. Evatt’s
association with the Communists in his
attempt to wreck the Petrov Commission.
Dougherty’s attack on January 27 was
somewhat confused. It displayed new
trends. The objection to the industrial-
groups movement has hitherto .been sup-
posed to lie in the fact that it wa? sec-
tarian, an attempt by a strong Catholic
organisation to sink Protestantism and
subvert the Government in Australia.
But now Mr. Dougherty says that it
“obviously cannot be a sectarian move-
ment” ; it is a conglomeration of “am-
bitious go-getters, ex-Communists, fellow-
travellers, and people who should be
Liberal-party members.” Thus, on the
authority of the A.W.U., the whole basis
of Dr. Evatt’s charges against the indus-
trial-group mevement, that it was the in-
strument of Catholic Action, which cer-
tainly is an instrument of the Catholic
Church, falls to the ground.
Anyone with a name like Dougherty
should know what has been going on,
and so should those about him. Yet he
is the fierce protagonist of Dr. Evatt, who
has been a legal spokesman for Com-
munists, and of Mr. Clive Evatt, who, it
appears, was slaughtered at the behest
of the ex-Communists, fellow-travellers
and Liberals of “The Movement” for
having voted against the proposal for a
Catholic University. Mr. Dougherty re-
veals himself, the head of the moderate
A.W.U., as having been the chief adviser
of Mr. Clive Evatt (the member of fellow-
traveller “peace-committees” and of the
Australia-Russia Society, declared Com-
munist by the party, till he was dragged
out of it by the scruff of his political neck
by the A.L.P.) at the crisis in which Mr.
Evatt was ruining himself by opposing
the Catholic University and Catholic
policy.
It also appears that Mr. Dougherty
knew, at the time, of the alleged conspiracy
which was plotted by the industrial
movement to put Catholics who were its
enemies into the Ministerial offices from
which Ministers like Mr. Evatt were
ousted; and he never said a word about
it. He let the A.W.U. “bear the brunt” of
the attack on compulsory-unonism while
“the stooge unions reaped the benefit,”
without saying a word. And he let Mr.
Cahill, that upright and virtuous favorite
of the Evatt party of the day, be sub-
jected by “The Movement” to “vicious
blackmailing” involved in the threat
that if he did not introduce compulsory-
unionism “The Movement’s” support
would be withdrawn.
It is all very tortuous and familiar to
students of the relationships of Com-
munism and Fascism. It adds up to one
thing—the “Labor” party, on the say-so
of the head of its greatest union, has for
years been a seething mass of loathsome
political corruption, intimidation, back-
slapping and backbiting. On the other
hand, on the evidence of Mr. Laurie
Short of “The Movement,” Dr. Evatt has
long been a “millstone around ‘Labor’s’
neck and a plaything of the Communists.”
Tammany Hall at its worst rarely ex-
hibited so sordid a picture of political
intrigue, corruption of principles and
tooth-and-claw methods.
Compulsory-unionism
One of the most interesting sidelights of
the Dougherty allegations of fun-and-
games in N. S. Wales “Labor” circles
arises out of his “disclosure” of the origin
of Cahill’s compulsory-unionism legisla-
tion. Dougherty’s story is that it was
the brain-child of “The Movement,” that
the industrial-groups blackmailed Cahill
into introducing it, and that J. Kerr,
Q.C., was a member of the legal brains-
trust which worked out the details.
Cahill has denied the blackmail story,
saying that compulsory-Unionism was
decided on by the A.L.P. conference
while he was away at the Coronation, and
that, anyway, it is a plank of the “Labor”
platform. His alibi is sound enough; it
was Deputy-Premier Heffron who broke
the glad news to the A.L.P. conference in
.June, 1953, only four months after a
victorious election-campaign in which no
mention had been made of compulsory-
unionism. The Shop Assistants’ Union
and the Clerks’ Union, which stood to
gain most from the move, were enthusi-
astic in their support, and it was com-
monly accepted that this was the pay-
off for their support at the election. The
dues paid by conscripted members would
make both these unions financially
powerful, and the extra voting-power
increased membership would give them
at “Labor” conferences seem sufficient
explanation of their keenness, without
presupposing a directive from Santamaria,
Catholic Action, “The Movement,” the
Mafia, the Camorra or any other secret
society.
Dr. Evatt, usually vocal on the subject
of human rights and the liberty of the
subject, saw nothing wrong in this par-
ticular attack on them, and Evatt, minor,
who did speak up against the measure
18 months ago, has now explained why
—“I opposed it when I discovered that
those who were sponsoring it comprised
many of the elements who conspired to
deprive me of my Ministerial post.”
A.W.U. official C. Oliver last week
described compulsory-unionism (N.S.W.
brand) as the “most vicious thing ever
perpetrated.” It is a vicious thing, but
apparently the A.W.U., while opposed
to it in principle, was prepared to accept
it for reasons of expediency until the
present flare-up.
Reflections on a Year Ago
A year ago tomorrow, on one of
Sydney’s blue-and-gold days, with the
Harbor alive with decorated craft, its
foreshores lined with people and
thousands more waiting patiently along
nine miles of barricaded streets, Queen
Elizabeth II and the Duke of Edinburgh
landed at Farm Cove —the first time any
reigning sovereign had ever foot in
Australia.
Surly indeed was the Australian who,
on that and succeeding days, failed to be
stirred by the Royal advent. Here in
the flesh was the young woman whom
Australians had watched, by the
mediums of the press and the cinema and
the radio, grow from an infant princess
to become Queen of a great Common-
wealth. Apart from the political and
international aspects of the visit, we had
amongst us the embodiment of all the
fairy-stories of our youth—the little
princess who had come through war and
tragedy, married her prince and been
crowned Queen.
Perhaps it is too soon to examine the
results of the visit. There was great
talk at the time of a “new Elizabethan
age,” of expected improvements in
politics and national life, of a new
awareness of national responsibilities and
so forth. True, the early days t of the
visit couldn’t escape a note of farce as
sundry political clowns and their
clownish followers intruded, but over
and above that it seemed the entire
nation was in a mood, to re-dedicate itself
to worthy standards which had, to a
large extent, been lost in the post-war
materialism.
Have we done so? Are we a better
people than we were a year ago? Have
we dropped petty quarrels? Is there less
racketeering in private and public life?
Are politics cleaner? Have we, in short,
been improved by the Royal presence
and the Royal example?
It is rather hard to discover any
evidence of mass-improvement. It is
hard to discover any improvement in
politics. Rackets still flourish openly.
Business methods are no better than
they ought to be. There are many other
disquieting things.
It wouldn’t be a bad idea tomorrow
for all those who were stirred during
those great weeks of 1954 to recall their
feelings of the time, revisualise the
Queen as they saw her, and, before it is
too late, “give it another go.”
A.W.U. and Margins
Although it is elementary common-
sense that margins for skill mean margins
for skill and not margins for good luck,
good looks or good intentions, the trade-
union movement continues to plug the
doctrine of margins for all. The unions
want it both ways. On the one hand they
argue that the reduced value of margins
kills the incentive of young men to train
themselves adequately at a skilled trade;
on the other, by urging what really
amounts to ah all-round wage-increase,
they are advocating a further reduction
of the gap between skilled and unskilled
workers.
The reason for this apparent paradox
lies in the very nature of the trade-union
movement. Political “Labor” supports
an all-round increase in margins because
it needs the votes of all wage-earners to
place and keep it in office, and its safest
seats are those where unskilled workers
predominate. The A.C.T.U. is in a
similar predicament. It has to please all
unions, and its biggest contributors are
the unions with a high percentage of
semi-skilled or unskilled workers. And
the A.W.U., the biggest union in Aus-
tralia, numbers among its 200,000
members men with a high degree of
skill as well as scores of thousands who
are doing jobs that can be mastered in
next-to-no-time.
At its annual convention last week
the A.W.U. passed a resolution declar-
ing support for doubled margins for
those at present receiving them and for
a marginal allowance for certain of its
members who at present receive none.
Referring to the decision, general-
secretary Dougherty said that the A.W.U.
should throw its strength “into the fight
against all utilities and all Governments,
if necessary, if they are not prepared to
deal justly and fairly on margins.” “Justly
and fairly” means, of course, the granting
of all claims.
When Dougherty, or anyone else,
speaks of fighting utilities and Govern-
ments, what he really means is fighting
the general public. In this country the
railways, the tramways and the sources
of power- and water-supply are owned by
the public. Stoppages, shortages, black-
outs and other accompaniments to the
“fight” may worry Governments and
those concerned with running the utili-
ties, but the ones who suffer the incon-
venience and deprivations are the public.
And the cost is ultimately paid not by
the Government or the utilities but by
the public.
Skilled workers who through a sense
of loyalty to the trade-union movement
support a policy which is harmful to
their own interests and which can bring
no lasting benefit to anyone are being
very shortsighted, and union-leaders who
expect them to stay that way for long
are due for a rude awakening. f
Britain's Color Problem
From London: Great Britain, so long
a champion of the equality of man and
a preacher against racial prejudice, is
now finding that it has an embarrassing
color problem on its own doorstep.
In 1953, 5000 Jamaican migrants
arrived. In 1954 there were 10,000. This
year they are coming at the rate of more
than 1000 a month. They arrive, in
high spirits and full of optimism, in
batches of about 200 a time. At home
conditions are bad, with a third of the
1,500,000 population unemployed or
partly-employed. They mortgage their
property or borrow from relatiohs to pay
their fares. They are undeterred by warn-
ings that Britain offers no paradise. Many
blandly disembark with no money, and
most of them with, no protection against
the winter cold.
Friends or relatives, themselves earlier
migrants, put them up, generally in
quarters that are already overcrowded.
Next day they report at the labor-
exchange. Particulars are taken. They
are told to “come back tomorrow,” which
they do, receiving the same command
until placed. With Britain in a state of
overfull employment and casual labor at
a premium they do not normally have
long to wait.
There is one serious imponderable. It
is splendid to have good money and
regular work, especially after having
lived in a depressed area. But what is
to happen if a recession sets in? Both
employer and trade-union will insist on
the migrant being first to go. The
authorities will then have a tricky
situation to deal with, to say nothing
of a hefty charge on the public funds,
and it will be magnified and distorted
by the incidence of color.
A recession may not occur, but a
lesser problem remains, which is by no
means imponderable. The colored
migrant is not encouraged to believe that
he will qualify for promotion on equal
terms with the white native. For one
thing he is a late arrival; for another,
perhaps, there may be some resistance
to working under him. Sooner or later,
this realisation must lead to the kind of
restlessness and bad feeling which is so
well known elsewhere.
An instance of the embarrassment
caused to the authorities was the
Mayor of Lambeth’s vain attempt to
bring the Colonial Secretary round to
his point of view. Brixton, which is in the
Lambeth borough, has virtually become
(Continued on next page}


a reception-centre for West Indians.
Accommodation is inadequate, the con-
gestion is insanitary and a degree of
exploitation persists; because no
alternative accommodation can be found
for the migrants there is a real danger
of slums forming. The Mayor’s idea is
to reopen the vast air-raid shelter beneath
Clapham Common and have it properly
equipped as an official reception-centre.
It is possible that the Government views
this practical expedient as opening the
door to a double dilemma: seeming to
encourage a migratory flow when it would
prefer the reverse and, by the very act
of segregation, laying itself open to a
charge of racial discrimination.
The problem is further complicated
by the fact that the Mother Country
cannot, and has no wish to, close her
ports against British subjects. And the
West Indians are British subjects. Given
the wherewithal, they may come and go
as they please. (It is nof, incidentally,
that pride of association which brings
them here. They come because there is
money to be earned. If they had a free
choice they would go to North America,
where they believe the opportunities are
better.)
Ultimately the Government may have
to consider some kind of quota or other
form of regulated entry. This would
mean discriminating against British sub-
jects from one part of the world but not
from others and, by implication, would
amount to racial discrimination. For a
Government in such a situation to be at
once wise and just, fair and firm and yet
stand by its convictions, would call for
prodigies of tact and draftsmanship.
POLITICAL POINTS
Yesterday New South Wales began its
first week of what has been described, as
the beginning of civilised drinking-habits.
What remains to be proved is whether
the community is sufficiently civilised to
take it.
• •
Santamaria .. . Bukowski ... Schmella
. . . What’s happened to all the Smiths,
Browns and Joneses that used to be
around?
• •
With a Parliamentary session almost
upon him and the din of the Kilkenny
cats going on all around him, Cahill says
he is “determined that the State ‘Labor’
party, with its splendid record of achieve-
ment, will not be divided.” His prob-
lem seems to be to find a means whereby
a thing can be split, but not divided.
• •
Saturday’s by-election for the Higin-
botham seat in the' Victorian Legislative
Council left party-strengths unchanged,
with “Labor” still depending on the
whims of two Hollway Libs. The seat
went to L.C.P. candidate L. H. S. Thomp-
son with 44,219 votes. Other starters:
O’Connor (“Labor”), 28,830; Mackie
(Hollway Lib.), 12,705; Bennett (Ind.),
2857. With 6000 postal and absent votes
outstanding on Monday, there seemed no
likelihood of any necessity for counting
preferences; Thompson was only 173
votes short of an absolute majority.
• •
All this fuss about the amount of
money Johnnie Ray, Frank Sinatra and
other American entertainers are taking
out of Australia is rather ridiculous.
There’s a limit on their take-away figure,
and their aggregate swag would be small-
potatoes compared with what American
films cost Australia. Furthermore, much
the same crowd goes to all of ’em, and
it probably won’t be long before the
novelty of seeing their screen- and radio-
idols, in the flesh begins to wear off.
• •
The Brisbane Lord Mayoralty is the
latest pawn—and a fairly valuable one —
in the “Labor” faction-fight. Lord
Mayor Roberts, at present on the outer
with the A.L.P., intends to stand as an
Independent, and there’s a move to get
Brisbane solicitor M. G. Lyons the
“Labor” nomination. Spokesmen for
“pro-Evatt” unions told the “Courier-
Mail” that Lyons was a grouper, and that
they would resist his nomination
strongly in the Q.C.E. and would do
nothing to assist him if he secured the
endorsement. The City Council election
isn’t due until April 30, and lots of things
could —and probably will —happen in
the “Labor” world before then.
• •
Peru’s action in seizing two U.S. fish-
ing-boats and demanding the payment of
fines amounting to 10,000 dollars is of
interest to Australia in view of current
reports of alleged poaching in Australian
waters by Jap fishermen. The American
vessels went into Callao for repairs and
were charged with having caught fish
in Peruvian waters. This may mean
inside the three-mile limit, but it seems
more likely a try-out of the claim the
three republics on the Pacific coast of
South America Ecuador, Peru and
Chile —have made for sovereignty of the
sea up to 200 miles from their coasts.
It seems most unlikely that America will
agree to this claim.
• •
Dougherty says that he was able to
tell Clive Evatt 2\ months in advance
that he would be expelled from Cabinet.
Clive’s comment is that he didn’t believe
it at the time but that “it must now be
quite obvious to all fair-minded people
that I have been the victim of the
Santamaria Movement.” It isn’t quite so
simple as that. The expulsion of Evatt
minor had been forecast so many times
that someone had to be right sooner or
later.
• •
The Cahills seem to be starting on a
campaign to win friends and influence
voters in the country. Local-govern-
ment Minister Renshaw has “approved”
a plan which is aimed at making Albury
the “potential capital” of the Riverina.
It includes Government offices, new
court-house and police-station, provision
for residential and industrial expansion
and reservations for future park- and
playing-areas. Renshaw says similar
plans are being drawn up for 20 other
towns.
The approach shows a change of tac-
tics. Two years ago Minister for Agri-
culture Graham, supporting Finnan as
“Labor” candidate for Albury, told the
electors that they had only themselves to
blame if money for public works did not
come their way. The remedy was in
their hands —return a “Labor” member.
He instanced what he had been able to
do for Wagga. Albury rejected the bribe
—and Finnan. Perhaps Renshaw’s
subtler approach may bring better results.
But it isn’t likely to please Wagga,
Albury’s rival as capital of the Riverina.
• •
“Portrait of Menzies Wins Archibald
Prize.” . . . “Menzies a Natural for Tele-
vision.” It looks like another deep plot
against the Doc.
• •
“Actin’’: While the Canberra air was
thick with rumor that Dr. Burton had
again linked his fate with his former
master, Dr. Evatt, and that he was writing
ANOTHER TRIO
(according to Dougherty, of the A.W.U.)
a new policy for some “Labor” phoenix,
Percy Clarey came quietly up to the
capital to attend the citizenship conven-
tion and have some quiet conversations
in tactical quarters. Clarey is not likely
to be attracted by any Burton outpour-
ings, but he is said to be feeling fit enough
to have a crack at leading survivors of
the party into a new and possibly saner
atmosphere.
• •
As Brisbane “Courier-Mail” sees it,
“The repairs or improvements (to the
Commonwealth Constitution) proposed
by Sir John Latham are remarkably few.”
This suggests that the writer didn’t expect
them to be so few, and that suggests that
a lot of people who write about “im-
proving” the Constitution haven’t
bothered to study it. Sir John has —and
pretty thoroughly, too. If he can find
only “remarkably few” reasons for
change, the thing can’t be in such bad
shape, after all.
• •
The Seamen’s Union has threatened
to ban any ships which may be chartered
to take troops to Malaya. This is sheer
impudence. Don’t the seamen realise
that the Waterside Workers’ Federation
is the only onion with the right to dictate
Australia’s foreign policy?
“F.S.”: There is something the
matter with the Victorian Licensing
Act, or its administration. A Mel-
bourne man who went to a country
town to visit a friend found his
home locked-up, inquired at the pub and
learnt that his friend had died. The
publican told him that, as a special favor,
he could stay one night—after that he
would have to find accommodation else-
where. Some pubs won’t even serve one
meal. There are plenty in Melbourne
capable of accommodating scores which
don’t even make a pretence of providing
board and lodging. They have become
swilling-troughs under the excuse of lack
of service. The phenomenon is not con-
fined to Melbourne; in Sydney the situa-
tion is worse.
• •
America is not the only handout
nation. The Colombo Plan powers, in-
cluding Australia, are doing their share,
but with rather less publicity. Britain is
high on the list of givers ; gifts of money
made or undertaken by the U.K. since
the end of World War I to British de-
pendencies or mandated territories, in-
cluding waivers of debts due by them and
by Burma, now total £529.7 million. Of
this, £107.3 million represents grants to
Palestine and Transjordan between 1921
and 1950, and £55.4 million in waivers of
claims on Burma arising out of World
War 11.
• •
“Moresby”: Well before the latest Jap
fishing-alarm, the New Guinea Territory
Administration was probing the best ways
of developing fishing resources. The
chief of the fisheries division, A. M.
Rapson, has now come up with a series
of useful suggestions, which will be
tested with a 60ft. vessel chartered
from Queensland. The Administration
is also experimenting with pond-culture
of fish inland. On the marine side the
long-range plan includes new methods
among native fishermen, development of
local fishing-grounds, greater interest by
co-operatives, the training of fishing-
crews, exploration of grounds by special
vessels, and the processing of waste into
livestock- and poultry-meal. Rapson
stresses that development of fishery-
resources could raise materially the pro-
tein value of the native diet, still too low
in many localities, despite the yearly im-
portation of £l-million-worth of canned
meat.
• •
“In the ACT”: Undeterred by the
welter of litigation provoked by the
famous words of Section 92, the A.C.T.
Advisory Council asked the Minister for
the Interior to amend the Seat of Gov-
ernment Act “to provide that trade, com-
merce and intercourse between the A.C.T.
and the States shall be absolutely free.”
The Minister, in absentia, has now told
the Council that if it thinks that people
who get cheap leases in the A.C.T. to
supply the Territory with food should be
able to sell their goods outside the A.C.T.,
then his answer will be “No.” The
Council decided to ask for reconsidera-
tion, claiming that the proposal is in the
interests of the Commonwealth and the
A.C.T. residents and goes far beyond the
supply of food.
• ' •
\ <
Almost 19,000 homes were completed
in Australia during the September quar-
ter, and there were 71,301 houses under
construction at the end of the period.
The building-industry seems to have
settled down at somewhere around that
figure. At March 31, 1953, there were
71,177 homes in course of erection ; at
March 31, 1954, the score was 70,191.
• 9
A statue of the late E. M. Hanlon,
Gair’s predecessor as Premier of Queens-
land, will be unveiled in Brisbane this
month. In bronze, it is the work of a
Brisbane woman, Mrs. M. Kuhn, and
will stand in the grounds of the Women’s
Hospital.
• •
Concerning the row at Sydney airport
over Civil Aviation officials allegedly de-
barring taxis and hire-cars other than
those owned by one man from operating
for business there, why doesn’t someone
invoke Section 92 of the Constitution?
This, providing for freedom of travel, is
as binding on the Commonwealth as it
is on the States, and an airline passenger
arriving at Mascot should be free to call
a taxi if he wants one.
Another of the rapidly breaking links
with a famous Australian Socialist failure
has gone. Mrs. Jenny Lane, dead in
Toowoomba (Q.) at 87, went to Paraguay
with William Lane’s New Australia
colonists in 1893. She had married Lane’s
brother. Like most of the party, she was
happy to return to capitalistic Australia
after ten years of Socialism-in-practice.
• •
An American scientist has predicted
that the time will come when it will be
possible to travel from San Francisco to
Sydney in 90 minutes. Chief beneficiaries
should be American crooners and
groaners. They’ll be able to fulfil their
Stadium engagements and fly home each
night to sleep.
• •
Bell Bay aluminium works will be
officially opened by Supply Minister
Beale on Monday, when production of
alumina, from which the metal is finally
extracted, will begin. The first aluminium
ingots will be produced in July, and an
output of 10,000 tons a year is hoped for
by the end of 1956.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
AN Emile Mercier cartoon in the Syd-
ney “Sun,” obviously aimed at a
visiting American crooner and depicting
two gents looking up the definition of
“croon” in Webster’s and finding—“To
make a continuous hollow sound; to
bellow, to lament or wail with low mono-
tonous sounds....” —could have been
improved on if Mercier had consulted
the 1908 Webster. Here the definition is
made far more descriptive by the addition
of the simile: “like cattle in pain.”—
“Roirp.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Alban” : Two queer things happened
in one Melbourne radio-session. . The
man who answered the free air-trip ques-
tion bluntly said, “I shall not be taking
the trip. I work for the rival line!” Also
a listener who had given her home tele-
phone-number to the station was rung-
up (in the hearing of the audience
attending the session). The compere
said: “It’s radio-station calling,
Mrs. ——. Your husband has a chance
of earning a pound if he can answer a
simple question . . .” The woman re-
plied: “He’s, got no chance: he’s been
dead for over ten years!”
“I sometimes wish Wed never Won that £100,000 lottery and
had no snooty butler
“Cauboy”: One reason why grand
opera doesn’t pay is the thorough pre-
paration that has to be made for it when
producers demand a high standard. At
His Majesty’s, Melbourne, the 40 gentle-
men and ladies of the chorus selected
to perform in the season opening in
April have already gone into rehearsal
every day with their chorus-master, Eric
Clapham. They hail from all States and
from New Zealand, and when the curtain
goes up they must be word-perfect in 15
operas, which is saying something. They
will ultimately be handed over to a con-
ducts from abroad, who will duly roar
the tripe out of them-in broken English.
*X* ❖ ❖
“Clyde”: It was announced recently
that the price of hams has been cut in
Queensland, but as Actors’ Equity has
made no protest the announcement
must have been mistaken.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Jasby”: I first made the acquaintance
of Norman Lindsay at Port Augusta
(S.A.j about 1911 —without realising it.
Norman wasn’t there at the time, but I
was, having been born there seven or
eight years earlier. I recall my father
lying on a sofa on a Sunday afternoon
and suddenly bursting into laughter at a
story he was reading in a magazine,
which I now know must have been the
old “Lone Hand.” When we kids asked
to be let into the joke he said, amid
gurgles and guffaws, “There’s a boy in
this yarn who’s been told to plant some
flowers on his grandmother’s grave.”
This seemed scarcely cause for raucous
laughter, but he added, “and it’s a
tourday. And the kid reckons it
wouldn’t be so bad on a schoolday, but
fancy planting flowers on y’r grand-
mother’s grave on a Saturdee!” He
laughed some more and, in between
laughs, read us the story. Not much of it
remained with me half an hour later, but
the theme was fixed for good, and when,
a quarter of a century later, I read
Saturdee in the Endeavour Press edition
the whole scene came back. By then
my father was in his own grave. I’ve
chuckled over Saturdee many times since
then, but I can never quite decide whether
I’m laughing at Norman’s yarn or at my
recollection of my father’s first reception
of it.
£♦ ♦♦♦
“Metralia”: Among London psychi-
atrists the story is told of the quack who
put up a brass-plate: “Practising
Psychopath.”
♦I« »> £♦
“Sam”.: When I left school, in the
early 1920’5, the banks were choosy. It
was rarely a lad over 16 would be taken.
Not only did an exam, have to be passed
but a formidable list of references had to
be presented ; some banks demanded a
clergyman’s. Now banks advertise vigor-
ously for staff. The English, Scottish and
Australian has produced a film showing
the advantages it offers, which has been
screened at suburban cinemas. • The same
bank in the Christmas holidays had an
ad. in the Sydney press inviting second-
ary-school boys in the intermediate or
higher forms, who contemplated leaving
school, to take a half-day tour, 9.30 to
2.0, during which all phases of modern
banking would be explained by a senior
officer. Highlights would be: a film
hour, inspection of the chief office and a
arge city branch, and morning-tea and
luncheon, fares and othei out-of-pocket
expenses for each boy would be covered
y the bank:. ,
* * *
“Spasebo”: A New Australian woman
said to me, “Australians are funny people,
Do you know, they fry eggs in water?”
“Like Grandpa's.”
“R.R.L.”: It seems certain, with the
extended licensed hours, we will (Bung
permitting, of course) see an upsurge in
the popularity of darts. In Westralia,
where the pubs remain open Until nine-
o’clock, the game has a tremendous hold.
The board used is smaller than the
standard English type, and the rivalry
between hotels is keen. I saw some good
scoring recently in Fremantle, but the
best was in a “local” at Ickleford, a
village in Hertfordshire. A girl, playing
in a mixed-doubles match, threw three
treble twenties to win outright from a
distance of 10ft. When you consider that
her target was a strip about l|in. by fin.
you will appreciate her skill.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Mugga Way”: A clergyman has sug-
gested a helicopter service from Mel-
bourne to the Springvale crematorium,
16 miles away. He was thinking, he said,
of the man-hours that would be saved by
mourners. A protest-meeting is being
arranged of persons who periodically lose
grandmothers during Test-matches.
❖ ❖ *2*
“A.J.A.”: That henpecked sheik of
Sid Black’s (B. 5/1/’55) had better con-
sult his solicitor before he goes ahead
divorcing his 40 wives. He would be
bound to repay the dowry for each of
them. A dowry in the East serves the
purpose of preventing a bloke divorcing
his naggers by making it financially em-
barrassing to get rid of them.
❖ *2* *2*
“8.A.K.”: Nephew took his first girl
surfing. With slightly Bowdlerish modesty
he rolled his singlet and underpants in
the towel before bringing his clothes out
and depositing them in a heap with the
damsel’s. After a dip the Couple picked
up their clothes and went to the dressing-
pavilion, parting at the doors. The young
fellow entered, placed his clothes on a
seat, flicked out the towel —and nobody
ever retrieved three flimsy feminine gar-
ments with greater alacrity. But he was
sure that at least seven blokes stopped
their drying to stare at him with incredu-
lity. Outside, his girl was waiting. With
an embarrassed little giggle she handed
him a bundle wrapped in a very-similar
towel, accepted the other in exchange,
and fled back to her realm. Nephew
still pines over the fact that the seven
starers were gone when he returned with
the evidence of his masculinity.
❖ *2* *2*
“Teeshaw”: “Sister Ellell” and her
Nursing Service co-mates (B. 19/1/’55),
including the lass into whose unoccupied
bed and pyjamas a sozzled R.A.A.F. type
strayed, were fortunate they were not
staffing the mainland camp-hospital
where I sojourned during 1942, and
where perfectly sober Diggers systematic-
ally stole and donned the silken sine qua
n ons of the sisters and V.A.D.s. The
seemingly abnormal behavior of the very
masculine Diggers was due not to mass
menal atorratjon but to the discovery
that the touch of ’ silk on nether reglons
brought sweet relief to those suffering
trom s .. dermo ;. dhoby-itch and other
s jQ n afflictions, which were aggravated
by “hospital blues,” against which the
“drawers, cotton, short,” as issued by
Q-blokes to male soldiers, gave little pro-
tection. Speaking of breeks, at the same
hospital a hoity-toity V.A.D. dishing out
clean pyjamas to patients was floored
by the perfectly innocent query: “Have
you got clean pants, Nurse?” uttered by
a Digger patient who had been absent
from the ward at the beginning of the
dish-out.
❖ ❖ ❖
“J.D.”: Brisbane “Courier Mail” re-
cently ran an article on the United States’
national service programme. Illustrating
the article were two photographs, one of
an Australian, labelled “He serves three
months at home”; the other, of an
American, “He serves two years any-
where.” Somewhere somebody slipped-
up. The American in the photograph,
far from serving “anywhere,” was in a
camp handy to New York, given leave
every weekend, excluded from K.P. (kit-
chen-parade ; i.e., fatigues), and even
reported to have had his squad-leader
making his bed for him. Who was the
man in the photo? McCarthy’s boy,
Schine!
“Zed 3”: “Aussie” (B. 19/l/’55) is not
the only one “puzzled” at things
done on the radio. I have never been
able to understand why one of the top-
most announcers (a studio-manager of a
big station) thinks it necessary to remain
in the studio for a whole half-hour session
merely to read three stale and stodgy
advertisements —which could be done
quite as well by the compere of the par-
ticular session. I have long been con-
vinced that radio-announcers include the
vainest of men: they love to hear them-
selves talk (some, even with no audience
nor anybody else in the studio at the time,
even act —with gestures —when reading
the script, whether it be ads. or other
stuff). Boloney in excelsis !
,
“Tas.”: For the Great Exhibition of
1879 in Sydney—the year before The
Bulletin, was born —there was an extra-
ordinary “Ode” written by a young “un-
knighted barrister of thirty-four” by the
name of George Reid. Here is a fair
sample, dealing with the unsuccessful
efforts to attract immigrants to
Australia:
JUST A LINE OR TWO
“ ‘Dior’s H-line was completely feminine,’
said a returning dress-buyer.”
The H-line
For which woman is making a B-line
Pretty well eliminates the waitchline.
She wallows in it like a C-lion.
Though in favor of something more
feline,
I am more or less satisfied with any new
line
That retains plenty of plunging V-line
Or even a modicum of scooping U-line.
I know there are some who can be drawn
a mile on
Hot bricks by the almost-invisible tow-
line
Of a shop-window dummy in transparent
nylon;
But not even nylon attracts me as much
as no-line.
Yes, if I were to raise my eyes thought-
fully to the skyline
And ask myself what l really find most
appealine
1 would have to answer truthfully that
no-line was my line,
Spurning the attractions of even the
G-string (or G-line).
And yet, as proponents of the straight-
and-narrow-line
Are liable to frown at anyone crying
“You beaut!”
On viewing an example of my theories in
a girl on a calendar called Marrow-
line,
It’s a line that in public I’m always
reluctant to shoot.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
TO NEW SOUTH WALES
(AND AUSTRALIA)
Alas, the space that shields thee' from all
foreign harms
Hides from the outer world thy most
attractive charms,
Indeed, in Paris, but a very short time back,
Some of thy daughters were disowned —,
because not black!
How to dispel such ignorance has been long
felt
The hardest task with which our patriots
ever dealt,
Books, agents, maps and immigration tracts
they’ve tried,
Yet people go elsewhere, as if they all had
lied.


COMMISERATION
You poor old world, so scandalously
served,
So gorged of knowledge while of wisdom
starved,
In heart so muddy while in brain so clear,
Holding ideas so cheap and words so dear,
In art so raw, in enginery so skilled,
By paltry murder-tales so rapt and
thrilled,
Frustrated and bewildered in a maze
Of roads, the crossing of a thousand ways,
Split loyalties, blind hatred of the past,
The old ideals on the dunghill cast,
Atop so flourishing, so dead at root,
So poised between the angel and the
brute —
Why should I pity you or strive to steer
Your course, your destiny, or even peer
With purblind eyes into the cloudy gloom
Which, seems to shroud the future and
your doom ?
Self-damned, self-sentenced, to that doom
you’ll go
Whether 1 groan and weep for you or no.
n.z. Arnold Wall.
❖ ❖ ❖
“CLW.K.’s” recent witty poem, “Shekels
for Shackles,” prompts me, as a
parson, to air a grievance, since there is
no Clergymen’s Union. Never has it
been cheaper to marry than at the present
time —so far as the parson’s fees are con-
cerned. Back in ’OB an ecclesiastical splice
cost three-guineas—a week-and-a-half’s
pay. Today it costs one day’s pay. To
have kept pace with 40 years of inflation,
the clergyman would by now have had to
be charging twenty-guineas a go! The
only person out of packet is the parson.
And, incidentally, the Melbourne Dio-
cesan Year Books show that the spending-
value of the average parson’s stipend to-
day is just over half that of 1939. Most
Anglican clergy net a neat basic wage.
—“Skram St.”
• • • • •
“C.Q.”: A wedding-ring which fell
into a sardine-tin in Vaidal, Norway,
from the finger of a newly-married
damsel, made its way back from Horsham
(Vic.), where a citizen named Murphy
found it.
♦J* ♦>
“Cauboy”: There is one phony bit
in the excellent “Robinson Crusoe” film.
Crusoe, a gentleman of no particular
occupation before he became a sailor,
starts exploiting the local resources on
his desert island. He learns to make his
own clothes out of hides, and catches
goats and milks them. Then all of a
sudden he becomes a full-blown potter,
and a sequence is shown in which he is
depicted working a potter’s wheel and
throwing pots, elegantly glazed in the .
newest art shades, with all the skill of a
member of the Arts and Crafts Society.
Starting from zero, he must have made
“ Anyway , it's not broken — it's only bent."
discoveries off his own bat which took
mankind thousands of years.
❖ ♦>
“Ceg”: Like “Narumee” (B. 12/l/’55),
I watched a family loading the car for
holidays. He was a bank-manager in
Gippsland, and there were eight of them
all told. First he had a muster to make
sure they were all aboard; then gear
was loaded on the running-boards, top
of the bonnet and any other place that
would take any. Last aboard was the
canary, in its cage. Then, just as he was
letting-in the clutch, Mum remembered
the cold roasted fowl. Muttering impre-
cations, Dad climbed out and disappeared
inside the bank. Presently he reappeared
with the bird, stowed in a pillow-case,
which willing hands among the onlookers
tied on to the luggage-carrier at the rear.
Farewells were said, and off they went.
The car hadn’t gone more than 100yds.
when the roast fowl in its shroud dropped
off into the road. There was only one
thing to do ; we had the chook fof supper
that night, soothing our consciences with
the thought that at least the travellers
had the canary with them.
*** * *
Eric Wallace Moorhead: Of the pars,
by “Mississee” (B. 5/1/’55) and “Mick
O’Melboume” (B. 19/1/’55) about Mr.
“Hossenlopp,” “M.O’M.’s” is correct.
Mr. Hossenloff was “imported” from
Pondicherry in 1897 by my late father,
James Henry Moorhead, then proprietor
of the Athenaeum Club at 288 Collins-
street, Melbourne, as chef of the
-club. Mr. Hossenloff, having been
accustomed to native servants, and
new to Australian customs, on one
occasion violently assaulted a kitchenmani
at the club with a soup-ladle. During his
free hours Mr. Hossenloff was a pic-
turesque and well-dressed figure in
Collins-street. In later years he was the
proprietor of the Savoy Cafe in Little
Collins-street. The Vienna Cafe, as your
second correspondent states, was the pre-
decessor of the present Australia in
Collins-street. I myself lived on the top
story of the Athenaeum Club at 288
Collins-street from 1895 to 1900.
♦> ❖
“Craiser”: After subjecting 10 women
to tests in an imitation three-bedroomed
house, the Bfltish Industrial Research
Department has exploded one notion
women have of themselves —that they
walk miles round the house each day.
Finding was that the average housewife
walks scarcely more than a mile in doing
her housework, and that 73 per cent,
of her time is spent at or near the kitchen-
sink and stove.
❖ p ❖
“Metralia”: A two-headed dog has
been created by a Dr. Demikhov,
Russian. Whatever the experiment’s
scientific use, this turning of Fido into
Cerberus will stick in non-Soviet gizzards.
It seems one of the nastier Russian foibles
to pick the most human of animals for
such experiments. Pavlov, too, artificially
produced nervous-breakdowns in dogs.
One can only hqpe the Soviet will de-
moralise and destroy itself from within —
by next producing two-headed, and hence
two-tongued, women.
“Emjai”: Occasionally we happen
upon shop-assistants who know their
olives and suchlike better than “Ceg’s”
Shirl (B. 5/1 / ’55), but they’re of an older
school. A young wife down the road
set about making plum-sauce, her recipe
including bruised-ginger. She phoned her
husband in the city that her grocer could
not supply bruised-ginger, and that he
was to bring some home without fail.
His first approach met the response:
“Sorry, we don’t carry bruised-ginger.
Can supply whole green- or root-ginger,
preserved - ginger, crystallised - ginger,
ground-ginger. No, no bruised-g inger.” At
half a dozen other groceries the counter-
hands had never heard of it, but one
suggested trying the oldest Melbourne
grocery firm. There he was waited upon
by the oldest employee. “Bruised-ginger!
And would you be making plum-sauce?”
asked the nonagenarian. “That’s right,”
“What on earth's that ?”
replied the husband hopefully. “Well!
well! That takes me back,” said the old
chap. “I recall the delightful plum-sauce
my mother used to make, and it was my
job-as a small boy to bruise the ginger
with a hammer.” The husband landed
home with his bag of whole ginger, and
dug out his heaviest hammer with a look
which portended a dinkum battering.
* ❖ ❖
“Quo Vadis”: “Bo” (B. 5/l/’55) may
have been a “ball-boy’s laborer,” but
he’s no tennis-player, or he’d know that
“30ft. cloud-ceilings” are not used by
class players to conceal lobs! What the
player actually “conceals” is his intent:
the type of shot he will play, speed on
the ball, direction of placement. He
conceals all these from his opponent,
thus inducing him to err in anticipation.
Tliat’s what “Bo’s” tennis-scribe had in
mind when he wrote of well-concealed
lobs: and it applies to every shot that
can be played on a tennis-court. The
concealment was evolved in the mind of
the player; those lobs were unexpected!
<£♦ +J*
“J.J.A.”: The local church put on a
tableau, the last scene of which depicted
the Nativity in the stable. Amidst all the
gorgeous finery that we credit the Three
Wise Men- wearing, to make the scene
look as realistically Eastern as possible,
was the Manger—a kero.-drum cut in
half.
❖ ❖ *>
“Mackville”: The old bomb chugged
■willingly, if noisily, all the time the traffic
was held up at the city intersection, but
the moment the constable gave the “come
on” sign it stalled. A car behind tooted.
The old bus vibrated with the whirring
of the battery. More tootings from be-
hind. The driver worked frantically.
Suddenly something seemed to break loose
—two sharp, metallic rings sounded from
inside the vibrating bonnet. Drawled a
callous cove standing near me on the foot-
path : “I’ve heard of ’em putting a penny
in it, but that’s the first time I ever
heard the cash-register ring it up.”
* * *
“Pelm”: On the n.-w. corner of the
hotel at the comer of Flinders-lane and
Flinders-court, Melbourne, is a circular
plaque, and Union Insurance is still
plainly discernible on it about 18ft. up
from the pavement. It was the custom
for insurance companies to maintain their
own fire-brigades. On arrival at the fire,
the firemen noted the name on the insur-
ance-plaque. If it was not the name of
the company which gave them their sub-
sidy, their duty Was to communicate with
that company.
♦♦♦ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Ex-R.S.M.”: It is harder to bowl a
cricket-ball on a muggy day (B. 12/1 / ’55),
not due to the effect of the humidity on
the flight of the ball, but to its enervating
effect on the bowler. Humidity does not
affect the flight of bullets or shells except
at long ranges, and a very slight correc-
tion fixes that; but damp air used to
have a considerable effect on archery,
because muggy weather robs a wooden
bow of some of its strength, or “cast,”
and also takes some of the “spine” (stiff-
ness) from a wooden arrow. The old-
time archer had to aim considerably
higher in humid weather. There’s no
such need with the modern steel bow and
duralumin-tubing arrow.
❖ ❖
“H.C.8.”: It’s good to see kids able
to take a hearty whack in the right spirit.
Several times I had the choice of sliding
back off a good-’un in the surf or collid-
ing with one of two 11-year-old boys.
But this particular breaker was a boomer;
I’d fluked it just right, and the only kid
visible was well on one side. With that
glorious feeling of being aboard a beauty
I was sweeping shorewards when—bang!
The blow came from under the water,
and it felt like one of those straight-lefts
that meet you just as you’re stepping in—
only much harder. I was standing trying
to feel whether my nose was still straight
when the kid bobbeS up in front of me.
“Sorry, son,” I apologised. “Did it hurt
you?” “Aw, not very much,” he said
bravely. “What, did you get hit?” asked
his mate, “Yeah,” admitted the lad,
wincing ; “fair in the middle of me foot.”
TO A CHILD ELOCUTIONIST
The gripes 7 have frequently had,
And a toothache has given me gyp.;
I’ve suffered carbuncles
And three-story uncles,
And wowsers who give me the pip.
I’ve squirmed through the radio-ad.
When tots shrill cacophonous song.
I’ve found an emetic
In jokes quite pathetic
By comics that should get the “gong.”
I’ve played cards with women, and shared
Them at golf—that’s a lot of unease.
Through crime-films I’ve shuddered
Where guys have been “ muddered”
As well as the English—but these ■
Are as nothing, I find, when compared -
With the agony I, hapless wight,
Have endured on occasions
When Mama’s persuasions
Have led you to “come and recite.”
A martyr, I’ve watched as your hands
You’ve tried to get rid of, and failed;
Your shufflings and wrigglings
Shored-up with some gigglings —
Then, “Christopher Robin” you’ve
flailed.
There seems something wrong with your
glands,
Your larynx some warts must contain.
With eyes glued to ceiling
And voice that’s congealing,
You fiendishly pour on the pain,.
Which is rendered far worse, l avow,
When you’ve elocuted at length
In those stilted phrases
Which win you fond praises
But wring from me this: “Give me
strength !”
Your Mummy might deem you a wow.
But we’d have been saved from your
bleat
If someone, my girlie,
Had got to you early
And slipped you some arsenic, neat.
N.S.W.
S.W. K.


T
Schweppes
WORLD FAMOUS
DRINKS is'""
• MINERAL WATERS
• FRUIT DRINKS
• FRUIT JUICE CORDIALS
SCHWEPPERVESCENCE LASTS THE WHOLE
—— ii ——■—————————i i ■ •
DRINK THRO L'
18701
r
G H
SekwQppQs
PERSONAL ITEMS
Enzedder George Dalton is to be chief-
engineer of the Australian Atomic
Energy Commission, his the sizeable task
of helping construct the first atomic re-
actor at Menai, south of Sydney—£sjr-
million-worth. A Rhodes man of 1939,
he was in the right quarter to join the
R.A.F.; researched on radar, did further
research back* at Oxford, and was at
atomic Harwell when his present appoint-
ment as Professor of Mechanical Engin-
eering at Auckland University took him
home, in 1949. He married a daughter of
Robert Graves, the British author. He’s
still on the right side of 40.
• •
Gilbert Sherman McDonald (here
attached) started off a cabinetmaker, got
a liking for schoolteaching, and took it
on in 1914. Next year he enlisted, re-
turned badly wounded in 1917 (Light-
horseman in Palestine), went back to the
schoolroom, and became one of the first
teachers in the trade-schools established
in South Australia as a result of the labors
of educator Dr. Fenner. McDonald got
to be Inspector of Technical Schools in
his State in 1937, Director of Technical
Education in 1940, and is now Deputy-
McDONALD OF BORNEO
Director of Education. Some time back
he put in three years in Papua, establish-
ing a technical-education system for the
Methodist Missionary Society. Now he’s
off on a bigger job in Sarawak and North
Borneo, to report for the Federal Govern-
ment (under the Colombo Plan) on indus-
trial development in those areas and their
need for skilled workers. As a result of
an earlier visit he made to Ceylon and
Pakistan, teachers and administrators
have been trained in Australian universi-
ties and technical colleges. Rotary and
bowls interest him after five.
• •
Brian Hone, Rhodes-man and distin-
guished educator, is off for 10 months to
the U.K. and U.S., to. study secondary-
school education methods. As weff (as
president of the Australian Headmasters’
Conference) he’ll try to get more U.K.
teachers to come here in exchange for
ours. Normally to be found head-
mastering Melbourne Grammar.
• •
“C.Q.”: Melbourne “Argus” came out
with the headline “Royal Artist to Paint
Sir Norman,” but it wasn’t a fact that
the Duke of Edinburgh had been com-
missioned to paint the 77-year-old Father
of Australian tennis. It was the Lawn
Tennis Association commissioning
William Dargie to execute a portrait of
the veteran to mark his retirement after
29 years as its president.
“Weff”: Tomorrow (February 3) artist
Unk White, 20 years younger than The
Bulletin, will celebrate his birthday. A
New Zealander, Unk came to Sydney in
1922 (a decade or so after David Low),
with no training and little experience, as
an artist. He had been a ticketwriter
with an Auckland draper and had picked
up some of the rudiments of the game
at the Auckland Sketch Club. In Sydney
he sold drawings to “Aussie,” and later
to The Bulletin, and lived with little
means, but happily, in a bare Circular
Quay studio. There were trips abroad—
to England and France, Panama and
Costa Rica, then World War II intervened
and Unk became a war-artist, first with
the Air Force, then with the Navy. Unk’s
guitar-playing might perhaps fall a bit
short of Honolulu, but there’s no question
about his expertness as a 'swordsman.
Said The Bulletin many years ago: “He
took to fencing like a hidalgo and his
riposte is as keen as his humor.” It
still is.
• ■ •
“K.A.8.”: Retirement, delayed since
1947, has come to the Very l Reverend
Dean Moore, of Perth. He answered a
missionary call to the Westralian gold-
fields from an honors-degree course at
Dublin University, and landed in 1898.
Appointed to Kanowna, he found no
church or accommodation, but an active
committee. They met the train and all
retired to the parlor-of the nearest pub
to hold a first meeting. It didn’t start
with a prayer, as he’d expected, but with
a call for “a bob-in.” He paid his bob.
After 19 months —building a church in
three months and paying for it in six—•
he volunteered for Mt, Morgans (now a
sheep-station). Coaches were few and
trains non-existent, so he pushed his
bicycle the hundred miles from Menzies;
the raff-terminus. He got quite a name as
the parson of the “gay” church, because
he partitioned off the altar and ran dances
in the hall. A fine baritone voice, a fund
of Irish folksongs and an attractive
brogue made him a popular figure in his
widespread parish.
His next appointment was to Northam,
in the wheat-belt. In this parish, cover-
ing hundreds of square miles, he built
four churches in five years. Reward came
with his appointment (the youngest in the
diocese) as Canon of St. George’s, Perth.
In 1 he shifted to the Fremantle
parish. A few years later his wife died ;
then, when his three small children
reached boarding-school age, he sailed
with the A.1.F., returning in 1920 on the
last hospital-ship out of the Middle East.
He was married again in 1921—t0 a
daughter of Archbishop Riley, of Perth
—and returned to a greatly expanded
wheat-belt , area as Archdeacon of
Northam.
In 1929 he was elected to the Deanship
of Perth. Youngest son Michael holds the
honor of being the first baby born in the
Deanery for 65 years. Second-eldest son
Charlie was lost with those who remained
in Rabaul. After a record 17 years, the
Dean retired, at the age of 75, to a beach-
cottage at Scarborough; but he dis-
liked the tin-shed that was being used as
a church and the lack of a permanent
parson ; so he took on the job, built a
church and a parish, and handed them
over on New Year’s Day to his successor.
He intends to act as curate tiff one is
appointed. He’s now 82, looks 65, and
acts a good deal more spry than that.
• •
Dr. M. Tamzil, promoted to Ambassa-
dorial rank in Canberra after being
Minister and Charge d’Affaires there for
Indonesia for the last 18 months, is a
popular and efficient member of the Dip-
lomatic Corps, well-acquainted with many
parts of Australia. He holds the degree
of Doctor of Laws from Leyden Univer-
sity, Holland, and was formerly stationed
in Sweden, and in the Foreign Affairs
office in Jakarta.
Appointed judge of the County Court
and chairman of General Sessions in
Melbourne, John Gerald Norris, Q.C.
Born in Melbourne and educated at its
University, he specialised in commercial
law and was lecturer in the subject at his
Alma Mater. He had six years in the late
war in the First Armored Div., ending-
up in New Guinea, lieut.-colonel.
• •
“Uramao”: Alexander Knox Ander-
son (whose passing was noted in B.
19/1/’55) was one of the remarkable
number of New Zealanders holding big
educational posts in Australia, especially
in colleges of the Scot brand. Fellow-
Enzedders who have taught in these
latter institutions have included Colin
Gilray (Dunedin), who succeeded Dr. W.
S. Littlejohn (Nelson) as principal of
Melbourne Scotch. Then there was J. A.
Dunning, who bossed Warwick (Q.)
Scots, and later went to Adelaide to rule
Prince Alfred there. Another, George
Keys, took over Perth Scotch. Anderson,
a Southlander, succeeded James Bee
(Oamaru) as principal of Scots in Sydney
in 1934. When selected for the Sydney
post Anderson had been rector of St.
Andrew’s College, Christchurch, for 14
years. His mother lives in that city.
• e
A Melbourne scientist, Alan Walsh,
researching with C.5.1.R.0.’s Division of
Industrial Chemistry, has invented an
improved spectroscope which provides
scientists and industrialists with a far
better tool for a wide variety 1 of investi-
gations, Walsh’s modification will benefit
research into farming and metal-produc-
tion, coal-usage and petroleum techno-
logy. His new technique has already been
applied at the Royal North Shore Hospi-
tal, Sydney, in research into the structure
of blood pigments. A leading American
manufacturer of scientific instruments is
incorporating Walsh’s modification in
the firm’s equipment; Australia is already
receiving royalties of 10,000 dollars a
year.
• •
lan Dugald McLachlan was the first
'R.A.A.F. fighter-pilot to be decorated
for bravery in World War lI—D.F.C. for
his dash in leading a Middle East squad-
ron. Born at Hawksburn (Vic.), he went
to Duntroon and passed into the
R.A.A.F. from Point Cook. Pilot-Officer
in 1932, before the war he had risen to
squadron-leader, and became wing-com-
mander in the desert. There his know-
ledge of Army tactics and strategy was
invaluable in battles against the Germans
and Italians—“under his determined
leadership the squadron often over-
whelmed a numerically superior enemy.”
He fought in Libya and Syria before
returning to a staff posting at R.A.A.F.
McLACHLAN OF LONDON
h.-q. in Melbourne, and went on to com-
mand a fighter-wing in New Guinea, and
another wing in Morotai and Borneo.
Several top-flight administrative posts fol-
lowed, ending-up with Air Commodore
Operations. He goes now to his biggest
job—Director of Operational Flying
Training at the Air Ministry in London.
There are not many high-ranking
berths which Commodore James Cairns
Morrow has not filled in the R.A.N. —
from naval-attache in Washington and
captain-superintendent of Garden Island
dockyard to commodore-superintendent
of training at the big Flinders base. He’s
due this week to settle into a chair behind
a door marked “Second Naval Member.”
There his main responsibility will be the
MORROW OF MELBOURNE
whole personnel of the Navy. Not always
chair-borne, by a long shot. First com-
mand was destroyer Voyager (one of the
rust-and-wire contemptibles of the
Goebbels sneer,), which he had till 1941,
and won D. 5.0.; next, the hefty 4.7-in.-
gunned Arunta, again in command, and
which he placed nicely over a Jap sub-
marine out of Moresby, collecting both
Jap and D.S.C. He was 2 i/c of cruiser
Shropshire (now with the knackers in the
U.K.) at war’s end, and in 1951 was given
command of the Australia, gone the same
way. There followed the high administra-
tive posts. Fifty this week, he owns a
deslroyerman’s casual assurance in com-
mand, has the reddest hair in the R.A.N.,
and is, inevitably, “Copper” to all hands.
• •
Leo Jones began with Queensland
Cement and Lime Co. as process-tester.
Not an elevated, but still a responsible
job. The tester, having something else
besides a sense of responsibility, went on
to become analyst and chief-chemist, at
37 was the co.’s works-manager at the big
Darra plant, and opened North Australian
Cement’s new works at Townsville. He’s
just taken over as g.-m. of his old firm,
controlling a £2i million industry.
• @
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Lindsay Biggins, one of the
best-known of Australia’s teachers of the piano.
He accompanied many leading virtuosi, and as a
soloist appeared on concert-platforms in all
States. From 1929 until his death he
was on the staff of Melbourne University
Conservatorium.
In the U.S., Mrs. Jean White-Haney, daughter
of E. J. White, one-time Assistant Astronomer
of Victoria. Melbourne University gave her
B.Sc. in 1904, M.Sc. in 1906, and in 1909 she
became the second woman to gain a D.Sc.
degree in Australia. As well as her teaching
and tutorial work, she made extensive research
which led to notable advances in knowledge of
bitter-pit in apples and in prickty-pear control.
She had lived in, the U.S. since 1930.
At Bellerive (Tas.), at 94, Albert E. Middleton,
who joined the Tasmanian Public Works
Department in 1891, retiring in 1930. His
bridge-design and -construction included the
duplication, in 1903, of King’s Bridge, Laun-
ceston, and the replacement of the notable old
stone bridge on the main Launceston-Hobart
highway after its destruction in the 1929 floods.
In Perth, at 76, Percival Samuel Chandler,
Boer War veteran and Old Digger. He had
been past-president, chairman of trustees and
member of the board of directors of the
Westralian branch of the Australian Natives
Association.
In Melbourne, E. Turner a cousin
of Robert Louis Stevenson. He held a com-
mission in the Hussars when War I broke out,
but served later with the Australian Light Horse
in Egypt, on Gallipoli and in Palestine, with
rank of major.
In Brisbane, at 64, Graham Sutton, medico-
major of War I, later a noted urologist, one-
time president of the Queensland B.M.A. With
degrees from Sydney and Edinburgh Universities,
he was for years a lecturer at the Brisbane Uni.
He had specialised in Wickham Terrade for
close on 30 years.
At Apia, Samoa, T. G. Phillipps, chief-
surveyor to the Samoan Government. Widely
experienced in surveying in New Zealand, he
was with the N.Z.E.F. in War f.
In Newcastle (N.S.W.), at 63, Harold O’Neill,
one of the Hunter city’s best-known solicitors.
He had been for six years president of the Law
Society there.


<0 m—- Ftftm '<& k)(gsruri ; /
CONFUSING TO AN OLD PATRON


ABORIGINALITIES
r T , HE river-surface was covered with
A phosphorus, making flashes like
scores of mirror-slithers. Frolicking
mullet, was the general opinion, but as we
rowed closer the experienced fishermen
changed their bet. “Prawns,” they de-
clared. “Might be mullet after ’em —
something is—but it’s prawns breaking
the water.” A torch-beam confirmed the
opinion. As we sat and watched the
frantic confusion of the queer little crea-
tures, one skipped along the water and
alighted on a large, dry leaf. It partly
submerged with the weight, and remained
at that level. The prawn did not move
again. Perhaps it was blind luck that
made him jump on to the. leaf, but once
on it his instinct evidently told him that
he could not be seen from below; and
being on a good thing he stuck to it. —
“Swelpme.”
“Morayda”: Recipe for cooking ’roo:
First feel the animal’s tail. If it is fat it
indicates good meat. Dig a hole in the
earth, large enough to contain the animal.
Pile up wood beside the hole and make a
big fire. When the fire burns itself out,
dislocate the ’roo’s hips, place, it on its
back in the hole, and cover with the hot
earth, leaving the end of the legs exposed.
Leave for almost an hour, then uncover
and remove. If desired, certain parts of
the entrails may be removed beforehand
and grilled on coals separately. This
recipe is out of no cookery-book; but
then, the abos around Alice Springs don’t
write cookery-books.
* * * *
“Nimrod”: Bats find some queer
places in which to roOst. Walking through
King’s Park (W.A.) I watched about a
“Eis a DECENT bloke — don't claim any skill margins."
dozen of them pour out of a lamp-post
at dusk. The “flittermouse” must have
a high resistance to heat: under a Wes-
tralian midsummer sun a steel lamp-post
interior would be like an oven.
* * * *
“Not Least”: Old Jimmy was affection-
ately tolerated in the small country town
where his family had once known greater
respect. The small estate-income accru-
ing to him, not wasted on water, soap or
clothes, sufficed for his liquid appetite.
He followed a daily routine: to the hotel,
spy out the land for cadgers, then quickly
dash in for “a few.” Across to the library-
steps to sleep in the sun ; and a doubtful
lunch would be plucked from the none-
too-clean pocket of a winter /summer
“Can t hear you , sir. What Was that you said?”
overcoat. Back to the hotel; and later
disappear, upright but unsteady l , to his
very modest hut. One day he approached
me, complaining bitterly about the neces-
sity to visit the near-by larger towh to
record his signature for the estate.
“Have to leave at six, and won’t be back
till dark. Waste a whole bloody day.”
“Pa-Pa”: A country newspaper bush-
fire slogan: “Chaperone your cigarettes ;
don’t let them go out alone.”
* * * •
“Fairf”: I can’t keep step with Nature
in the way she arranges the biological
urges of her feathered subjects. My big
aviary contains a dozen budgerigars and
one lone hen-canary; breeding-pairs are
segregated to other cages because hen-
budgerigars fight so fiendishly over pos-
session of nest-boxes. Despite the hous-
ing shortage, courting goes on apace
among the budgies, often with decidedly
immoral consequences. The canary, how-
ever, has led a completely virtuous life
during the couple of years I’ve had her.
Yet twice this season the little-’un has
built a nest on the ground, laid eggs,
and wasted weeks on a task which, unless
she is .completely ignorant of the facts of
life, she should know is an obstetric im-
possibility. The hen budgies, on the
other hand, should have every reason to
prepare for an avian family event. And
what happens? Absolutely nothing! Not
by even a broken piece of eggshell do
their sins find them out!
* * * *
“Q.V.”: “Bogaduck” (B. 5/1/’55)
gives us his treasured recipe for choice
steamed-cockatoo (with knitting-needle),
but he is wasteful. What’s wrong with
using the head (the beak can be used
afterwards as a toothpick), which “B.”
would discard? Season, add rice and
chopped onions; simmer at leisure.
Gourmets will find this a rich and satis-
fying entree; and most beneficial to
alcoholics . .- . Sorry, can’t stay to
dinner; going shooting; ducks about, I
believe ; might even be a few cockatoos.
* * * *
“Mugga”: Many youngsters’ extra-
curricular activities include the A.B.C.’s
children’s session, with its “Argonauts.”
Recently a Canberra woman, listening
with her children, heard a brief but mov-
ing story about a place in Queensland
which she recognised from the descrip-
tion as being her home-town. She was
so vividly reminded of it that she paid it
a visit, and searched for the girl,
“Pythagoras Three,” who had told the
story. Finally she met the girl, and was
more deeply impressed than ever. The
lass was a full-blooded aborigine.
* * * *
“Chink”: How did Sid Black’s snake
(B. 12/1/’55) get itself so well squashed
by a motor-vehicle through failing to
“look both ways before crossing”? Per-
sonally, I’ve driven a car over Joe Blakes
on divers occasions, only to see each one
gallop blithely away as though he had
relished the experience. A bush bloke
has assured me that what you should do,
if you want to make a road-crossing
snake feel really unhappy, is jam on the
brakes and so grind the wheels over him;
but, of course, in most cases the wriggler
is under the wheels and out the other
side before you can do any braking.
THE SOCKS-AND-SINGLET-MEN
Did you see the socks-and-singlet-men
going down the road,
Or hawking round from town to town
their camphor-smelling load?
A twisted turban on each head or battered
old straw hat,
With bags of Turkey-lolly that will
“makum baby fat,”
And selling socks and singlets, soap and
razor-blades in packs,
: Their horse and wagons grinding over
endless country tracks?
The Muslim hawker-men we knew have
vanished from the scene,
No mark, no song is left to show that they
have ever been,
But the rattle of the wagons and their
voices reach my ears,
Insistently and faintly down the path of
fifteen years.
Ah, the merry carefree days when we
were small and not so wise,
And played in thoughtless freedom under-
neath New England skies.
The sheep spread out in hundreds on the
hillside and the flat,
The morning prayers we gabbled kneeling
on the praying mat;
The birds that told us gravely, "Children-
chilli-chilli-hot!”
The spicy smell of curry cooking in the
big black pot;
The creek that caught the sun and shone
with rainbow-colored light,
The soft winds in the evening and the
silver moon at night;
And, when our cork-tree flowered and
the passion-buds were seen,
From the window every morning we’d
look for Faizel Din.
And Faizel Din, the hawker, would come
driving down the hill,
Yelling clear across three paddocks his
greetings and goodwill;
Faizel Din, his turban bobbing and his
one gold tooth agleam,
And out into the driveway to welcome
him we’d stream.
He’d gjrab the crowing baby, shouting to
us all the while,
N.S.W.
He’d chaff my homesick mother till her
sad dark eyes would smile,
And the days would pass enchanted by the
stories that he told
Of people on the outback farms, and all
the goods he sold,
Till he’d say, "Got to sellum seenglet.
Better I go back.”
Then we’d gather by the homestead an<
wave him down the track.
So, each year when lambs were bleating
and all our paddocks green,
We knew that spring and shearing-time
would bring us Faizel Din;
But one day, quite unexpected, a message
came to tell
That a Muslim man lay dying not far from
Inverell.
My father took his Koran and got out the
horse and cart,
While we stood in stricken silence and
anguish at the heart.
Two days we watched and waited sitting
by the timber-mill,
Then we saw a horse and wagon come
crawling down the hill.
The few belongings in the back, my
father’s drooping head
Cried out in silent eloquence that Faizel
Din was dead.
And nearly all the hawker-men, the good
Punjabi breed,
Old Nabby Bux and Ibraham and Hakim
and Majeed,
Ramtulla and Goffura Khan, Marm Din
and Shah Husson
Have left the farm and wagon and have
wandered further on;
But Ammon Din of Lower Creek is still
there branding steers,
And Golam Mohammed’s grazi'ng sheep
despite his eighty years.
Of all these men old Faizel Din stands
foremost in my mind,
And I like to think that, in the land that
all good hawkers find,
With his tired horse and wagon and his
shabby merchandise
He’s hawking socks and singlets round
the tracks of Paradise.
MENA KASHMIRI ABDULLAH.
THE CLEAN BAGMAN
/"\UT there, over the border in Queens-
land, I met him ; they called him the
“Clean Bagman,” and he was —very.
They said he washed everything he
owned, including his blankets, at every
waterhole he came to; and the chap he
had lately travelled with told me: “He
tried to crack my dog, just because it
scratched a few leaves and brambles on
to his swag.”
What made the Clean Bagman so mad,
I found, was that he had washed his
entire swag the day before, and because
of that happening he’d had to wash it
over again.
Anyway, because of his reputation for
cleanliness, the cook at our shed gave him
a job as offsider.
For about a week he did a marvellous
job; the cook reckoned he had never
seen anyone work like him. He cleaned
the cookhouse, scrubbed the tables, and
really went to town on the tin-plates and
tin-pots and -pans. He had them all
shined-up till they looked like mirrors,
and when he had everything as clean as
he felt it should be, he drove nails in
the walls and hung all the pots and pans
up in neat rows.
Everything was lovely. Then, one day,
the cook went berserk. In a towering
rage he chased his super-clean offsider
with an axe, till some of us rushed over
and grabbed the bab., while the Clean
Bagman rushed to his hut, grabbed his
swag, and headed out, fast. He didn’t
even wait for his pay.
When we had the cook calmed down
he told us all about it. It appeared the
Clean Bagman had complained that too
many of his shiny utensils were being
used, which meant too much work keep-
ing them all shined-up. “Then,” said the
bab., looking round for the axe again,
“the cow picked out what he thought was
enough for me, an’ shined an’ polished
an’ punched a nail-hole in the others —
an’ hung them up!”
W.B.H.


ideal for
your kitchen, too
Give your Kitchen a "new home" look replace
your outworn, hard-to-clean unit now, with a
polished Wunderlich Stainless Steel Sink. You'll
be delighted with the work it will save you. There's
a size to suit your Kitchen—single or double bowl.
Ask your local hardware merchant,''phone MX 2411
or write to Wunderlich Limited, Baptist Street,
Redfern, for illustrated folder and prices.
STAINLESS STEEL SINKS
THE PERFECT SINK AND DRAINER
3i
a
T 1
mm
’
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
KEROSENE TILLEY PRESSURE
Rcgcl.
fm
. . .•
tamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON |i PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
/"■'HARLEY, caught well out in the
blacksoil country in his utility, with
no chains, headed east for the 15-mile-
distant town as he saw rolling up from
the west pitch-black, low clouds advanc-
ing swiftly to the accompaniment of
thunder and forked-lightning. A hater of
thunderstorms, Charles bashed the
accelerator, and it developed into a
thrilling race; but he got to Doolan’s
pub at the end of the street with a dry
windscreen. As he shot out of the cabin
and dived for the bar he glanced over
his shoulder —the back of the ute was
loaded with hailstones! —“Flip.”
* * * *
“Bass”: The fact about natives de-
monstrating grief (B. 29/12/’54) is that
they seldom do so in the presence of
whites. By the same token, I’ve seen one
keep a straight face when the Mission
Sister tripped over a bucket of soap-suds.
His face didn’t even twitch. But that
night, at his camp, he demonstrated the
incident and re-enacted the portly lady’s
startled leap and spreadeagled finish.
And you should have seen him and his
audience convulsed wtih laughter!
* * *
“Phil Anthus”: Touching on “Jon-
shaw’s” statement (B. 12/1/’55) to the
effect that one Peter Johannes Schmidt
claimed in 1906 to possess family papers
covering three centuries, and indicating
that an ancestor, Johann Schmidt, became
in 1606 the first white man to land in
Australia, some further check-up' on that
interesting claim seems desirable. The
Smith Family, in particular, should get
busy, for confirmation would put them
fairly on top of Australian records. As
any historian will tell you, there is a belief
still current that when Cook reached
Botany Bay he ordered the young mid-
shipman of his boat’s party to land first.
‘Jump out, Isaac,” said he; and so
Isaac Smith (later to becoriie Admiral
Smith) was the first man ashore. If this
tale can be proved genuine, and if it
can also be established that a Dutch
member of the Smith Family pioneered
the Gulf of Carpentaria 164 years earlier,
we shall probably be faced with a demand
to revise the Australian coat-of-arms in
order to include, with the kangaroo and
emu, a bloke named Smith.
* * * *
“Mackville”: If that trooper who fired
a water-pistol into the faces of the
mongrel stag-hounds (B. 12/1//55) had
done his duty he would have arrested
himself on a charge of cruelty to animals.
To have shot the dogs with his issue
revolver would have been infinitely kinder
than blinding them with household-
ammonia.
* * * *
“Kelms”: A Westralian has learnt the
hard way that a six-volt battery carries a
terrific punch. He was working on his
car when a ring on his finger came in
contact with two battery-leads and
created a dead short. In a flash the
ring became white-hot and burnt a deep
circle into the flesh. One test for a
battery is to put a car in gear, have the
brakes on, and press the starter-button.
The battery should deliver 600 volts for
15 seconds. As the heat produced in a
conductor depends directly on the amper-
age, you can see why that ring got hot.
$ 3|C $ $
“Quo Vadis”: Despite “No Sirrah”
(B. 12/1 /*54), distilled water is necessary
for the long life and good health of a
car-battery. Continued use of impure
water for topping-up will ultimately
result in a battery that will not charge.
And any owner who believes a modern
car-battery is good for only two years is
being taken for a ride. It should, with
reasonable care, have a useful life of
double that period.
* * * *
“C.A.A.”: Heard a noise not unlike a
groan coming from a deep gully in Vic-
toria’s Otway Ranges. Investigating, I
touched, and quickly drew away from, a
tree which had just reached smouldering-
point. A small partly-fallen tree lay in
the fork of the other tree’s trunk and a
wind swaying the upright tree was setting-
up friction. An axe freed the obstruction,
eliminating possibility of a fire which no
doubt would have been ascribed to “cause
unknown.”
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: I’ve known a few talking-
birds in my time. Budgerigars, galahs
and Major-Mitchells have greeted me with
all the parrotical cliches in scores of huts,
homesteads, houses, shops and pubs.’
Rosellas, mountain-lories, green Mexican
and smoky-lqoking African parrots have
tried on me their limited vocabularies
which' long-practised, monotonous repe-
tition had eventually dinned into them.
But I have never met a talking-bird like
that grey parrot mentioned in the review
of I Was Monty’s Double (Red Page ; B.
8/12/’54). Just three times the bird heard
the word “Monty”: “ ‘l’m Monty . . .
Monty,’ I hissed . . . ‘Do you hear?
Monty!’ . . . Just as I was going that
wretched bird began to shriek ‘Monty!’ ”
* * # *
“Crow-Eater”: South Australia is now
suffering a pest introduced over half a
century ago, the African boxthorn.
Hailed at the time as a friend of the
farmer for the protection of sheep and
cattle from the bleak winds, it was freely
planted for hedges, and its rich green
foliage and bright red berries look quite
attractive. I recall as a boy a citizen of
my own hamlet producing a small packet
of the seed which he had just received
from South Africa, and sharing it care-
“We can’t sponsor it—his humor s too earthy."
fully with a number of others. The ripe
berries in due course Weren’t bad eating
for us youngsters ; but birds found them
even more luscious, with the result that
the boxthom is now as great a pest in
S.A. as gorse in Victoria and lantana in
Queensland. One method being adopted
for its eradication (grubbing and such-
like meaning later treatment of re-growth)
is to apply an ounce of common salt on
cut surfaces of butts after the bigger
bushes have been hacked and cut, and
spray arsenic-pentoxide solution on
smaller bushes and re-growth. Some of
the hormone-like weedicides have been
tried but with only indifferent success.
“Bogaduck”: Hundreds of small trac-
es are now used for mustering and
shifting sheep (B. 12/1/’55). Most are
fitted with a small tray behind the driver
for carrying the dogs and for moving
sheep which knock-up. Here’s how my
brother-in-law sums up the advantages:
“It cost close on a thousand quid, but it
comes off the income tax. It doesn’t have
to be caught and saddled before you start
work. It’ll go whereveir a horse can, and
m lots of places where you can’t take one
It never gets tired.” He pointed to the
sponge-rubber cushion on the seat. “And
it’s a darned sight more comfortable. I
never get any saddle-sores now.” With a
grin, he added: “And it never shies when
it sees a tiger-snake or when a bit of old
paper blows across the track.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: A magistrate in Victoria fined
a woman florist £5O and ordered her to
pay £lOO compensation for her having
picked half a truckload of thrytomens in
the Grampian Mountains, a sanctuary for
wildfiowers. The lady could have been
charged under three Acts: the Wild
Flowers and Native Plants Act (under
which 60 varieties of wildfiowers are pro-
tected) ; the Forests Act (which bans the
illegal removal of forest products); and
the Police Offences Act (which deals with
property suspected of having been stolen).
The top penalty is £lOO and a year’s jail.
So it would seem that the State’s native
flora is adequately protected— yet it is
disappearing almost as rapidly as the abo.
If the law were effectively applied half
the population of Melbourne would be
in Pentridge.
“THE DALY RIVER O”
Bamboo and pandanus and paper-bark
jade,
the river flowed out of its red-golden
mountain,
where finches in the leaf-tresses made
their songs in jet and spring and fountain.
There, over the river, the jabiroo wheeled
when the wild stallion led down his fillies
who and plunged, and bit and
squealed
among the shallows and the purple lilies.
And when, huge through the leaf-fringed
hush,
the moon rose like a sounding brass,
the pied-geese hon'ked and came with rush-
shush-shush of night-dark wings to pass
over our camp, the smooth pale sand-bars,
and the silent river trembling with its stars.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


Invest Safely and Profitably l
IN
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
41
LOAN
Make certain of gaining this Government-Guaranteed
4} per cent, annually for the next 10* or 20 years.
Principal and Interest
Unconditionally Guaranteed by
The N.S.W. Government.
An Authorised Trustee Investment in New South Wales,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
Subscriptions, interest and repayment of principal are free
of exchange in terms of the Prospectus. Instalments are
accepted. Interest may be credited to your hank account every
six months.
SECURE THIS GUARANTEED 4f% Today!
Apply immediately at any Commonwealth Trading Bank,
through your Stockbroker, or at the Water Board Office.
Ask for a Prospectus and application form.
- 'y
Issued at par for £1,250,000, Loan No. 129 is underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
The name is
(D c CdlUuns
I ■
the whisky is
yj
i £ &&
V SMtsCUhisky
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MG2I/3.Z
Business Rollery.ete
Industrials and Oils Quiet
FIRST flush of interim
dividends for the opening
half of 1954-55 are confirming
results for the preceding year.
Bradford Cotton’s 12| p.c. rate
is being maintained; so is
Minster’s 15 p.c. A.C.1., Carpet
Manufacturers and Mercantile
Mutual are paying steady rates.
Huddart Parker has lifted its
distribution for the year to Dec.
31 from 12 p.c. to 14 p.c., while
Kandos Cement and Australian
Cement have raised their
interims. And there continue to
be intermittent bonus-issues.
Most sound investment-stocks
continue to put up a good div.-
record, and most industries are
busy. But the sharemarket itself
is cautious and selective.
Except for those stocks being
bought to fill fixed-trust port-
folios, or those making increased
distributions, there has been little
animation in prices for industrial
scrip. After a fairly strong open-
ing early in the new year there
has been a gradual tapering-off
in support for most shares.
In the speculative market for
mining shares, both oil and
uranium issues remain dull.
Ampol Exploration is near its
lowest 1954-55 level at around
315., and Oil Search at under
14s. has not been lower for some
time. The latter should be worth
while as a spec, for long-term
holding, with possibilities of
earlier developments.
In W.A., Wapet’s exploratory
work goes on vigorously, with
the Grant Range hole reaching
an interesting level (below
6000 ft.). Freney is also drill-
ing in the area. Any promising
development by one is likely to
affect the .-ares of the other.
Westland Oil has begun drill-
ing at Warbreccan (Q.). Long-
reach Oil has abandoned its
Cleeve hole and is now sinking
No. 2.
The mining market needs a
spectacular oil-showing some-
where to revive speculative
interest as a whole.
Oil in New Caledonia
Known as a treasure-house for
nickel and chrome, and as an
exotic winter resort, the recent
news that a “generous show”
(the French report described it
as “un tres bel indice”) of
petroleum has been struck there,
at 545 ft., with gas above it at
506 ft., will come as a surprise
to most Australians, although the
island is distant only 700 miles
from the Queensland coast.
The chief interest here in the
strike —apart from the fact that
the drilling is being done under
contract by a Sydney firm,
Overall McCray—is that the
structure known as the Guaro
anticline on which the well is
located is part of the Malaysian
'Arc, a world geological feature
which extends from Malaya
through Papua and New
Caledonia to New Zealand.
The operating company —
known as S.R.E.P.N.-C. for
short —is controlled by the
French Government, whose
geologist, M. Rend Pomeyrol,
has spent four years disentang-
ling the intricacies of New
Caledonian geology. The well
itself, however, was sited by Mr.
L. Owen, who made full use of
M. Pomeyrol’s work and spent
a period in the field with him in
1953. So far this well, known as
Guaro No. 2 and situated about
90 miles north-west of the capital
city of Noumea, is the only one
which has produced oil within
sedimentary beds; some former
wells, very peculiarly, gave
“colors” of oil in volcanic rocks,
where the chances of commercial
petroleum were negligible.
Mr. Owen —a geologist backed
by 30 years’ oilfield work, and a
frequent contributor to The
Bulletin on oil matters—is
hopeful that the present dis-
covery will lead to worth-while
results. He*points out, however,
that present information suggests
that the oil found is migratory
(being in fact rather similar to
the Rough Range No. 1
petroleum), and that much
further study, including seismic
surveys, will be necessary for
legitimate development. But
success would be welcomed by
Australia almost as heartily as
if it had occurred on the main-
land.
Prospecting Companies
“A.G.P.”: There are two
types of prospecting companies
—one in which the shareholder
must look after himself by share-
speculation, and the other where
the company looks after the
shareholder by eventually return-
ing his investment, meantime
paying him regular dividends
commensurate with the risk
involved.
To get their capital, companies
in the first category must seek
popular minerals and metals in
fashionable areas regardless of
cost. Today it’s oil or perhaps
uranium in the Northern
Territory and Queensland. To-
morrow it might be thorium in
our beaches, nickel in South
Australia, or beryllium in New
England.
The American uranium boom
has been sustained by a few
really important finds. With
thorium looming up as a serious
competitor, the Great Australian
Boom will quickly fizzle out
“I didn't take the job. The typistes were definitely
not my type.”
unless someone soon stumbles
upon a deposit of truly ore-
making dimensipns.
In boom times, requirements
are simple to “kick” the market
—a hole in the ground, a few
assays, and the necessary
“expert” geological report. Later
a cunningly placed drill-hole or
two into the choicest part of the
mineralisation might help to
keep the ball rolling. Fancy
prices are paid to vendors,
experts get fat fees, field-staff
high salaries, drilling-contractors
reap rich profits and the busy
speculator doubles or trebles his
investment. Everyone is happy
except the last man in—he’s left
holding the baby.
Although it is true that some
of the world’s big mines have
been discovered by “wild-cat”
operations, most mineral
deposits of promise found in this
manner are crippled by over-
capitalisation early in their life
and are rendered incapable of
producing an amortisation
tonnage. Few will pay dividends,
fewer still will return their
capital; the great majority, like
old soldiers, will just fade away.
Companies in the second
category are rare in this country
—yef real opportunity exists for
them. Such a company would
avoid small, spotty and irregular
mineral occurrences —so typical
of most uranium and many non-
alluvial gold deposits—and leap
towards base metals, alluvials
and non-metallics, etc., which
tend to occur more commonly in
measurable concentrations with
some show of continuity and
tonnage.
In Australia the bulk of our
mineral-production comes from
two sorts of ore-deposits—big
ones and small ones. Medium-
sized mines, so productive
overseas, are scarce. We may be
lacking in enterprise, but
certainly not in middle-size
mineral deposits. In N.S.W.
alone there are many prospects
which would respond to intel-
ligent exploration, and unques-
tionably some would be capable
of operating profitably on
moderate tonnages.
Successful mine-finding by
prospecting organisations else-
where is not due to their lands
being particularly blessed with
more numerous or bigger and
better ore-bodies, but largely to
their enterprise, their ability to
prospect effectively and their
sound understanding of mining
economics. With the new taxa-
tion provisions relating to mining
companies, an Australian organi-
sation of this calibre, with its
shareholders’ interests at heart,
would be a refreshing change
and a promising investment.
Australian Paper Mfrs.
The ord. shares in Australian
Paper Manufacturers have been
weak lately at 21s. The scrip
touched 225. 9d. after the better
profits for 1953-54 were dis-
closed and the div. was raised
from 4.2 p.c. to 6| p.c. out of net
earnings equal to 9.6 p.c. on ord.
capital. During the past 18
months a« considerable change
has come over the wrapping-
paper and paper-board trade in
Australia. Demand is high, and
output has risen considerably,
with orders still unsatisfied.
A.P.M. should have another
satisfactory year during 1954-55.
Paper and board requirements
of Australia exceed 500,000 tons
a year. Australian Paper Manu-
facturers’ output of paper and
board during 1953-54 was 76 p.c.
higher at 168,976 tons, and at
the end of the term was at the
rate of 197,000 tons a year. De-
mand has been fully maintained
during the past six months, and
should be sustained for the next
six.
Australian Paper Manufac-
turers is one of Australia’s
biggest manufacturing enter-
prises, with a paid capital of
£16,974,812. Some of this
capital is only now beginning to
earn its keep. Before last
year’s profit was arrived at over
a million pounds was written-off
for depreciation against fixed
assets of £25 million (plant, £lB
million), making depreciation
reserve £6.2 million.


Congratulations
The Bank of New South Wales, now in its 138th year,
congratulates “The Bulletin” on its seventy-five years of
continuous publication.
Like “The Bulletin,” the Bank of New South Wales
is proud of its long association with the progress and develop-
ment of Australia and looks forward to even greater
achievement in the years to come.
#
w
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WARES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5502
Landon Airmail
From Herbert Holman
TN 1926, long before nationali-
sation, the unions of Great
Britain held Parliament and
people to ransom by the general
strike. They gained little. Sir
John Simon, speaking from the
Opposition benches, declared
the strike illegal. Volunteers
took over the essential services
and made them work. De-
mocracy, as expressed by the
steadfast unity of Parliament
and people, quashed the strike,
deflated the growing self-
importance of the trade-unions
and chastened the strikers. The
railwaymen, for example, found
that their re-engagement was not
automatic and that they had
forfeited their pension-rights.
They had to re-establish them-
selves by good conduct before
they were fully reinstated.
Conditions are very different
today. Nationalisation, which
was to make workers more con-
tented, public services more
efficient and to benefit us all,
has failed in those objectives,
The nationalised industries are
the ones most troubled with dis-
content. A railway-strike before
Christmas at' one time seemed
inevitable. The threat then held
itself over until the New Year,
when it became so potentially
serious that business-houses had
made arrangements to charter
coaches and reserve hotel-rooms
for their staffs,
The strike was averted, to our
immediate relief. For, had it
taken place, the dislocation
might well have been chaotic,
But the relief was short-lived,
. . .
Capitulation
The attitude of the National
Union of Railwaymen was never
anything but an uncompromis-
ing “Stand and deliver!” So
the Minister of Transport
appointed a court of inquiry
with instructions to waste no
time. The interim report of
this court averted the strike by,
in fact, conceding more than
was claimed. And “the core of
the matter,” as defined in the
report, has provoked a loud
rumble of criticism, objection
and misgiving. Here is the
crucial passage:
The nation has provided by statute
that there shall be a nationalised
system of railway transport, which
must therefore be regarded as a
public utility of the first import-
ance. Having willed the end, the
nation fnust will the means.
The significance of the last
sentence is simply that the rail-
wayman must not be worse off
than his neighbor in private
enterprise. Which, of course, is
the root of the trouble. The
Transport Commission is bound
by statute to pay its way; and
this it cannot do if the men’s
wages are increased.
Constitutionalists are appalled
that a tribunal of three men
should have done so much in so
short a time. The wage-
increases (probably amounting
to £10,000,000 a year) make
nonsense of the 1947 Act,
reduce the Transport Commis-
sion to impotency and, far
worse, violate the established
principle that no expenditure of
public money can be authorised
except by a Minister of the
Crown.
Moreover, the seeming-
nonchalant utterances of two
responsible people have added
to the fury. The commission’s
chairman has said: “As to how
it [the money] is to be found,
that is not my business.” And
the Minister of Labor is under-
stood to have told the N.U.R. :
“You need not worry. The
money will be there.” Whose
money?
Outcome?
The consequences remain to
be experienced. At present, in
the view of responsible com-
ment, they are rather frighten-
ing : any one section of the
community, especially if
nationalised and represented by
a trade-union, has only to be
underpaid by comparison with
another automatically to qualify
for levelling-up; the efficacy of
the strike-weapon, shrewdly
applied, is assured; the dykes
against inflation are manifestly
weakened; and the course of
political and industrial history
has changed for the worse.
That the men should be better
paid..was never in dispute. But
the wider problems of moderni-
sation, persistent restrictionism,
unsatisfactory trade-union per-
formance and expensive waste
and redundancy of man-power
seem no nearer solution.
New English Opera
If composers were disciplined
by cost-accountants they would
be firmly and tactfully dissuaded
from writing operas. The
tangible rewards to all parties
are scant, even negative. Per-
formances are few and fantasti-
cally expensive. A team of
artists and technicians nearly as
considerable as an army-corps
has to be engaged and assidu-
ously rehearsed. And the com-
poser must needs detach him-
self from his other means of
livelihood in order to embellish
his creation by about 1000 pages
of full score. Altogether, ho
light undertaking in this hard-
pressed and breathless world of
ours.
Notwithstanding these power-
ful deterrents, our leading com-
posers seem avid to try their
hands. The latest is Sir William
Walton, whose “Troilus and
Cressida” is opera seria on the
grand scale. Unlike Britten and
others who have scored for a
chamber orchestra of soloists,
he writes for an orchestra of
extra - symphonic proportions,
with Wagner tubas and all. For
the Co vent Garden production
the knightly distinction extends
even to the scenery—three sets
of simple dignity and high
quality by Hugh Casson—and
to the pit, where Malcolm
Sargent makes a difficult score
sound quite straightforward.
Christopher Hassall has based
his libretto s on Chaucer, not
Shakspeare. His Cressida is no
“unpractised jilt” but a gravely
serious femme fatale. The plot
is easy to follow, of masterly
construction, and marches with
the doom - inevitableness of
classic tragedy. He uses the
language of today, straining
neither after archaism nor verbal
imagery. Very few of his phrases
ring silly when they are sung, >as
so often can happen in grand
opera.
Granted that the combination
of great acting with great sing-
ing is a perfectionist’s dream,
some vital dramatic effects,
created by the librettist and
honored by the composer, are
lost because of the inflexibility
of the acting. Only Peter Pears,
as the gushing, old-maidish
Pandarus, manages to fuse the
two arts. Nevertheless, Richard
Lewis’s Troilus is four-square
and not overrigid. Rut the rival
Diomede (Otakar Kraus) and
the treacherous Calkas
(Frederick Dalberg) lack the
nuances of their parts. The
Cressida of Magda Laszlo is a
picture of austere loveliness;
she is as eloquent in poise as
she is mellifluous in hfer exact-
ing arias; rather unbending,
perhaps, for so great a role, she
shows no predilection for Cres-
sida’s love of pleasure or water-
ing of affection. George Devine’s
production is superbly and
quietly poetic.
Walton’s music is intensely
dramatic in the truest sense and
never overstates itself. It is
idiomatic yet free from per-
sonality, cultivated yet readily
comprehensible, and in turn
plangent, idyllic, poignant and
tragic.'
A meritorious acquisition to
the repertoire.
Faith in the
Future
Power for industry - is one of the master keys
to Australia’s future.
However it is produced—by nuclear energy in
the years ahead, through coal or oil or hydro works
in our more immediate time—it is basic to all our
progress.
We must have it in ever-increasing quantity.
Industrial use of the atom will come, and
doubtless will change our whole concept of power.
Australia is fortunate in having the minerals to
fuel it.
But meanwhile we must look to the resources
to our hand. Until we tap Oil in commercial
quantities we must rely on imports of that liquid
life-giver for modern development.
As geography permits, we are advancing
various hydroelectric schemes, headed by the big
Snowy Mountains project. These will play a big
part in the long-term national programme.
Coal remains our great sthnd-by.
, Whatever changes in power-provision the years
may bring, we can be reasonably sure that
Australia will never go completely in want of basic
resources for its generation; and for that we have to
thank the abundance of coal.
It was demonstrated to the World Power
Conference in 1948 that this country and New
Zealand, between them, have about 4000 million
tons of proved and 15,000 million tons of probable
reserves of black coal—mostly, in Australia’s case,
in New South Wales and Queensland; and 6000
million tons of proved and 44,000 million tons of
probable reserves of brown coal, mainly in
Victoria.
Reckoned on volume alone, at present rate of
extraction Australia has enough coal to last almost
1000 years.
Coal stocks have been piling in the last few
years—it is a fact that 1954 was a record coal
production year—and Australia has become
independent of imported coal for its power-progress
into the future.
H. Hastings Deening


Have you time for
ALL your duties as
pROBA tE?
O
Executor?
If the complex problems of Estate administration are
too burdensome for you, as a private executor or
trustee, why not transfer your responsibilities to
Union Trustee? The Company may be appointed
to act in your place, or jointly with you as
co-executor.
With almost 70 years of experience in the adminis-
tration and management of Estates, the Company
is well qualified to render comprehensive service in
protecting and conserving Estate assets.
Call or write for a copy of the booklet “Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.’’
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albtiry, Townsville, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton and Charleville
The WILD CAT COUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of A/asia, Ltd.
A USTRALIA has reason to feel proud
*** !: and shareholders satisfied with the
technical and financial achievements of
this big zinc smeltery, etc. The co. has
built up an industry, vital to our indus-
trial need in both peace and war, which
in the days before World War I was in
the hands of Germany and German-con-
trolled plants in Belgium. Moreover, in the
world’s markets the co.’s zinc now com-
mands a substantial premium over g.o.b.
spelter from all quarters of the globe.
And the scrip has all the essentials of
a sound industrial equity—high earning-
power and dividends are backed by strong
finances, efficient plant and staff, and
continued expansion of the undertaking,
from which full benefits have not yet been
reaped. Recent expansion, financed out
of surplus earnings, includes a lift in
smelter-capacity at Risdon (Tas.) to
100,000 tons p.a., extension of the zinc-
residue and sulphuric-acid and super-
phosphate plants, erection of a large new
mill to produce 55,000 tons (about 50
p.c. of Australia’s current consumption)
of sulphate of ammonia, and increased
mine and mill output at the co.’s own
rich zinc-lead deposits at Rosebery (Tas.).
Last term fresh records were estab-
lished in output and sales of zinc, sul-
phuric-acid and superphosphate, as well
as in outturn of ore and concentrates at
Rosebery, and in production of by-pro-
ducts; and the tonnages would have
been better still had more electric-power
been available. Bigger production and
the basic-wage standstill had a beneficial
effect upon unit costs, of course. So,
despite a drop in the price of zinc, the
cautious board was able to write net earn-
ings £503,825 stronger at £2,186,840.
That was after allowing £750,000 (same as
previous year) for amortisation, etc., and
£1,340,000 (up £298,000) for taxation:
, Dividends^— x Written Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1950. .1,399,841 25 25 760,000 649,841 2,335,533
1951.. 1.677.535 36 35 1,050,000 627,535 2,963,068
1952.. 2.112.476 45 45 1,360,000 762,476 3,725,644
1953.. 1.683.015 40 40 1,200,000 483,015 4,208,559
1954. .2,186,840 47£ 1,425,000 761,840 4,970,399
* After deducting intangibles, but including mine
depreciation reserve, etc., £172,226 and £525,000
respectively. Excludes amortisation reserve,
£7,612,600 at 30/6/’54.
The £2,186,840 was 72.8 p.c. on the
£3,000,000 of share-capital;—half of it
carries a cumulative 8 p.c. and advances
with the ords. beyond that rate —as
against 56.1, 70.4, 55.9, 46.6, 38.9 and
18.9 p.c. back to 1948. The lushness of
these ratios owes much to the size of
reserves. On capital and reserves com-
bined, including the amortisation reserve,
the year’s profit was no more than 13.9
p.c. The div., which had climbed from
11 p.c. in 1946 to 45 p.c. in 1952 and
eased to 40 p.c. in 1953, was lifted to
47| p.c., making average distribution for
the last six years 35.4 p.c. compared with
11.7 p.c. for the six preceding years.
In Australia control of lead and zinc
—price for each was lifted from £A6S
to £A9S per ton in September, 1952 —
ceased in April, 1953. Since then the
Australian price has been directly related
to the London market, after allowing for
premium, freight, etc. For the year to
June 30 last the Australian equivalent of
the London average for zinc was £A93
(down £A29) per ton. For the six months
to December 31 last the figure was £AIOO,
which augurs well for the current term’s
results.
Last term the roasters treated 212,353
tons (up 17,113 tons) zinc concentrates
(25 p.c. from the co.’s own mines and the
balance from Broken Hill) for 186,509
tons calcines, which the smelter and by-
products plants handled for the follow-
ing results:-
Cad-.
Zinc, Silver, Lead, mium,Copper, Gold,
Tons. Oz.* Tons. Tons. Tons. Oz.*
1951.. 77,529 274,207 1,807 211 115 1,261
1952.. 83,501 291,014 1,774 210 141 • 1,479
1953.. 87,356 300,328 1,861 204 144 1,563
1954.. 99,201 339,545 .2,418 241 185 1,444
* Includes residues from copper plant.
Over 63 p.c. (58 p.c. previous term) of
the zinc was sold locally, mainly to the
galvanising, brass, zinc-oxide and rolled-
zinc trades. Most of the balance was
exported to India and the U.K. Sales
of lead and copper concentrates in U.S.
turned in about $3,000,000. The output
of sulphuric-acid was 104,714 tons (up
6886 tons) and of superphosphate 74,144
tons (up 976 tons). Demand for the
co.’s zinc-casting alloy, of which 3204
tons was produced last term, is expected
to grow considerably. .
The sulphate-of-ammonia plant was
scheduled to start up early in 1955, but
electric-power is not expected to be
available until June, and it might be a
couple of years before the 30,000 h.p.
contracted for is available and full pro-
duction reached. Meanwhile, a lot of
money will be represented by assets un-
able to make their full contribution
to the pdol.
At Rosebery 189,437 tons (up 20,676
tons) ore, assaying 18 p.c. zinc, 5.2
p.c. lead, 0.44' p.c. copper, 6.40 z.
silver and I.Bdwt. gold, were treated for
52,554 tons zinc concentrates, 8817 tons
lead concentrates and 6216 tons copper
concentrates. By June next mill through-
put is expected to be at the rate of 250,000
tons ore p.a. Measured ore reserves
remain at 2,000,000 tons; but the dia-
mond-drill has disclosed a lot more pay-
able stuff outside the measured limits.
The year’s net addition to the book-
value of fixed assets was £2,158,051:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £3,000,000 £3,000,000 £3,000,000
Reserves . „ 3,897*896 4,380,785- 5,142,625
Depreciation
provision .. 6,200,633 6,829,245 7,612,600
Overdrafts .. 648,228
Sundry creditors 2,533,222 1,622,416 1,842,354
Deposits .. 185 141 79
Tax provision 1,986,657 1,086,790 1,399,255
Final div. .. 900,000 825,000 ’ 1,050,000
£18,518,593 £18,392,605 £20,046,913
Mines and roads ’ 595,191 624,823 660,993
Freeholds, etc. 760,011 1,000,756 1,116,681
Plant, &c. .. 7,124,460 8,599,036 10,604,992
Shares, %tc. .. 752,029 865,832 837,722
Stocks and stores 2,902,403 3,679,426 2,785,370
Book debts .. 1,271,626 1,702,366 2,291,571
Cash, etc. .. 4,940,521 1,748,140 1,677,358
Intangibles .. 172,352 172,226 172,226
£18,392,605 £20,046(913
A reduction of £894,056 in stocks was
accompanied by a growth of £589,205 in
book-debts, elimination of the overdraft
(£648,228 at previous balance) and addi-
tion of £219,938 to the amount coming
to sundry creditors. The big holding of
cash, etc., was drawn upon for only
£170,782 net.
Subject to the course of metal prices
and cost, the outlook for shareholders
should grow brighter as capital expendi-
ture eases and production further in-
creases. At 395. 3d. (28s. 3d. a year ago) the
f.-p. ss. ords. return 6 p.c. on a 47| p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. at 375. yield 6.4 p.c.
Taubmans Industries, Ltd.
/~\NE of the biggest manufacturers of
household paints, precision finishes
and other surface-coatings in Australasia,
the Taubman group has long exhibited
robust earning-power, and • the parent
co.’s scrip is consequently held in high
esteem in the market. TTie group con-
sists of parent holding co. and 14 sub-
sidiaries, of which eight are in N. S.
Wales, two’in South Australia and one
each in Victoria, Queensland, Westralia
and New Zealand. And the link with
Pinchin, Johnson and Associates, the
English paint people, has meant much
both technically and financially.
Post-war expansion of the group, by
absorptions and otherwise, has been
rapid and profitable, and is now nearing
completion in its major aspects. Present
aggregate plant-capacity in the industry
is more than able to take care of current
demand, which means that competition
is becoming very keen, and that places
-the emphasis on efficiency and service—
the latter, includes color-advisory centres,
which have been no mean factor in
stimulating sales. Over the last eight
years the co.’s paid capital has grown
from £498,867 to £1,275,554, and
reserves from £373,939 to £1,697,707,
including £330,307 of share-premiums.
Over the same period turnover increased
more than fourfold.
There is practically no' competition
from overseas manufacturers, and the
stock position has never become top-
heavy. Production and sales in the
industry have therefore kept more-or-less
in step with local demand, which,
except in 1952, has been on a fairly even
keel over the lafst four years. Taub-
mans, however, appears to have won a
steadily increasing share of the trade
available, and costs benefited as new and
more efficient plant came into produc-
tion. Excepting a slight falter in 1952,
net earnings advanced by annual steps
from £171,617 in 1949 to £383,562 last
term, When the improvement was £27,110,
thanks to revival of demand generally:
Taubmans and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. -5 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves'.t
& & & dt £
’51..299,184 5000 15 = 142,967 161,217 1,143,760
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 1,128,760
Share, premiums, £6044 .. .. 1,134,794
Unexplained reductions, £7OOO net .. 1,127,794
’62..278,226 5000 15 = 173,372 99,854 1,227,648
Share premiums, £62,243 .. .. 1,279,891
Profit sale assets, £80,090 .. .. 1,859,981
Less intangibles, etc., £44,731 . . 1,315,250
’53..356,446 5000 15' = 175,309 176,136 1,491,386
Share premiums, £16,368 ..' .. 1,507,754
Unexplained additions, £1798 .. 1,509,552
Less added intangibles, £14,074 .. 1,495,478
’54..383,562 5000 15- = 176,333 202,229 1,697,707
* After eliminating outside interests, f After deduct-
ing intangibles, £82,474 at 30/9/’54.
Allowances for depreciation, taxation
and other contingencies are not broad-
cast, but the history of the business
suggests that they have been on the
generous side. Last term’s £383,562 of
profit covered the pref. div. (£5000) and
32.2 p.c. on the £1,175,554 of ord. capi-
tal as against 30, 23.6, 30.8, 35.8 and
29 p.c. back to 1949. On capital and
reserves combined the year’s profit was
12.9 p.c. Maintenance of the div. at
15 p.c. remained a comfortable matter.
Considering the amount of money
represented by the big new factory at Sun-
shine (Vic.), last term’s performance was
very heartening indeed. This factory,
now nearing completion, will be the
largest manufacturing unit for paints,
etc., in the British Commonwealth, the
chairman says.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,265,810 £1,268,728 £1,275,654
Reserves . . .. 1,227,649 1,569,786 1,780,181
Outside interests.. 158,198 211,202 205,830
Mortgages .. 150,000 511,518 671,535
Overdraft . . 499,291
Creditors* .. 1,050,000 674,342 877,833
Exchange account 64,540 104,459 107,775
Staff fund .. 15,000 28,000 28,000
Final divs. .. 104,023 93,498 94,044
£4,524,511 £4,451,533 £4,940,752
Freeholds .. 620,748 706,489 1,039,196
Plant .. 507,146 451,588 545,456
Stocks .. .. 2,496,613 1,521,122 1,997,276
Debtors, etc. .. 856,942 1,096,167 1,078,081
Cash, etc. .. 43,062 376,026 172,747
Intdr-co. balances 231,741 25*522
Intangibles .. 68,400 82,474
£4,524,511 £4,451,533 £4,940,752
* Includes provision for taxation.
The year’s net additions of £332,707 to
freeholds and £93,868 to plant were largely
on account of the new Sunshine factory.
Stocks, in. which imported pigments and
resins figure largely, were up £476,154,
due mainly to increased turnover. When
the books closed there was £3,248,104 in
stocks, book-debts and cash, etc., to
meet £1,449,368 coming to mortgagees
and sundry creditors, etc.
At 17s. 6d. (17s. a year ago) the f.-p.
ss. ords. give an immediate return of
4.3 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for 5.7 p.c. on his
money counts on a 20 p.c. distribution,
or other benefits. The £1 5 p.c. prefs.
at 19s. yield 5.3 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £29 14s. Bd. prefs. and
12s. 2d. ords.
7
Lennons Hotel, Ltd. (Brisbane)
"DRISBANE’S leading hotel, one of the
** most up-to-date in the Commonwealth,
Lennons has given an excellent account
of itself since the present co. bought the
undertaking from City Mutual Life about
six years ago. And now the board is
about to embark on a big programme of
expansion and development involving an
expenditure of about £1,100,000.
To begin with, a further £300,000 is to
be spent on additions and improvement
to the co.’s own Brisbane hotel. Also two
subsidiary or associated cos. have been
formed, each of which will own and
operate a new hotel, yet to be built, one
at Broadbeach on the South Coast, which
is expected to cost £500,000, and the
other at Toowoomba at a cost of about
£300,000. In each case the money is to
be raised partly by the issue of ord.
shares, partly by the issue of redeemable
debentures and partly by bank overdraft;
but in what proportions has yet to be
announced. The idea behind the capital
gearing is to strengthen the net amount
available for distribution among the ords.
Interest payable on the overdraft and
debentures will be a charge against earn-
ings, and therefore tax-free so far as each
co. is concerned. And if these two classes
on capital earn more than their keep, they
will make a handy contribution to the
pool for the ords.
In each case the issues of debenture
stock and ord. shares are to be under-
written. And holders of ord. shares in
Lennons Hotel, Ltd., are to be given
prior rights to take up, at par, a large
proportion of the ord. shares to be issued
in the Broadbeach and Toowoomba cos.
Also Lennons Hotel, Ltd., will itself take
a substantial parcel of ord. shares in
each subsidiary. Under existing condi-
tions, prospects for the subsidiaries look
bright enough, though it might be a
while before they earn enough to pay
anything substantial in the way of divi-
dends. The parent co.’s own robust earn-
ings continue to improve, and there is
nothing in sight at the moment to suggest
that the 12£ p.c. to the ords. is in any
danger.
The amount, nature and terms of the
new share capital to be issued by the
parent co. have not yet been made public.
Paid capital now stands at £385,000 in
150,000 5 p.c. cum. prefs. and 235,000
ords. The ords., which dropped to
275. 6d. in the market during 1953, re-
cently fetched 375. 6d. as against 31s. a
year ago. The immediate return at
375. 6d. is 6.6 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. at 19s. yield 5.4 p.c. Net tan-
gible cover is 645. prefs. and 28s. 2d.
ords.
For the year to June 30 last demand for
first-class hotel accommodation exceeded
the co.’s capacity, despite addition of
nine new bedrooms on the fifth floor at
a cost of £26,000. Turnover in the/bar,
lounge and catering sections strength-
ened, too, and costs, especially in the
kitchen, were steadier. After allowing
£6730 (up £468) for depreciation, £33,300
(same as previous term) for taxation and
spending “a considerable sum” on replace-
ments, etc., net earnings shot up by
£20,273, reaching £60,937:
,, — Dividends— —> To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. Deflcit.t
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
i 950. . 44,896 6 10 31,000 13,896 33,135
1951.. 50,751 5 10 31,000 19,751 62,886
Tax underprovided, £1845 .. .. 61,041
1952.. 42,905 5 10 31,000 11,905 62,94 b
1953.. 40,366 5 10 31,000 9,366 72,312
1954.. 60,639 6 12i 36,875 23,764 96,076
* Seven months. t After deducting goodwill, etc.,
now £lOl. |
The pref. div. called for £7500, and the


Is stress the cause
of all disease?
Research indicates that nearly
all disease whether a heart
attack or just that “sick” feel-
ing is due to chemical
imbalance brought on by worry,
and other stresses.
February Reader’s Digest
brings news of a theory which
may prove one of the most
significant medical advances of
the twentieth-century.
A wealth of other stimulating
articles in February Reader’s
Digest, including “How to speed
up your reading,” “Best advice
I ever had,” “Jalopies I cursed
and loved.” Plus a 20-page
book condensation of “A Wo-
man in the Polar Night.”
February Reader’s Digest,
on sale now—l/6 at all news-
agents and bookstalls.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: 8U3446. BU 3446, BU 1409.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C. 1.,
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
CRONULLA (By the Sea)
THE “WESTELLA”
Perfect holiday accom. for 80 Guests. All
Rms. H. & C. and Inner-sprung Mattresses.
LICENSED DINING ROOM. Golf, Bowls,
Ballroom. Very near Surf and Electric
Trains. FISHING PARTIES AND PLEA-
SURE -TRIPS IN OUR OWN LUXURY
CRUISER. IDEAL FOR HONEYMOONS.
Write for free and post free
Illustrated Booklet.
KINGSWAY, CRONULLA,
LB 5922.
d
THE FINEST AUTOMOBILE HIRE SERVICE
to Britain and the Continent
UNIIW' TED
mileage
at an all-in rate
Full 5/6 Seaters
Radio
Air Conditioned
I anil MANY other EXTRAS
1955 VAUXHALL CARS
Here’s a luxury self-drive hire-
car at economy rates. Big car
comfort, speed and amenities at
one all-in charge. A week’s
travel wherever, whenever you
like for £2O (Stg.). Whatever
the mileage there are NO
EXTRA CHARGES. 1955
Vauxhall 5/6 seater cars backed
by General Motors service in
Europe, ensures economic,
trouble-free travel. Book
GOEDENWAY for faultless
service throughout your stay.
Write, phone, cable or call
NOW for details.
WE EXCLUSIVELY
USE and RECOMMEND
PETROL
GOLDENWAY
AUTOMOBILE EIRE COMPANY. LIMITED
(Aust. Div.) St. John’s Wood Roundabout, London, N.W.B
■'Phone: PRIMROSE 6412. Cables: GOLWAYHIRE, LONDON.
’Grams: GOLWAYHIRE, NORPHONE, LONDON.
Your OWN Grain Storage
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
RB
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
AND AUGERS
• • i
mm
n i i
> j**l
\V\%
W'&'+k. '
a ~
SILOS
0 Heavy gauge galvanized
sheets
• Easily erected—permanent
• Rodent and weatherproof
• Extras available include: ac-
cess door, earthring, etc.
0 Prompt delivery
AUGERS
0 Designed to fill and empty
Lysaght Silos
® Segmented construction for
easy assembly and versatility
0 Unique vertical filling avoids
congestion
0 Vertical sets complete with
wall brackets, chute tubes,
. AUGERS are priced as low as
£B2/10/-; Popular Type for
2000 Bushel Silo, £lO9 (Motors
not provided).
CURRENT PRICES (AT WORKS):
500 bushel silo £7O
1000 „ „ £llB
2000 „ „ __ £lB2
2000 „ „ (Squat) £192
3000 „ „ £236
3500 „ „ £259
4500 „ __ £306
Write for further information and agents' names to Dept. No. Jj
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
or JOHN LTSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.? IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
S42Z
balance of the year’s profit was
22.6 p.c. on ord. capital as against
13.9, 15, 18.4, 15.9 and 13.2 p.c.
back to 1949. The div., steady at
10 p.c. for the four years to
1953, was lifted to p.c.
Though reserves at £96,076 are
none too stout a prop for capital,
overall the figures are a fine
testimony to the quality of the
control and the service rendered.
The co.’s expanding goodwill, a
valuable asset in this class of
business, stands in the books at
the nominal sum of £lOl.
Finances are comfortable:
Paid capital— 1953. 1954.
Preference .. £150,000 £150,000
Ordinary .. 235,000 235,000
Reserves .. 72,412 96,176
Creditors . .. 30,220 43,430
Tax provision .. 33,378 40,545
Pinal divs. .. 17,850 21,375
£538,860 £586,526
Freehold, etc. .. 381,815 404,164
.Plant, etc. .. 93,"262 100,143
Stock .. .. 24,887 16,721
Debtors . . . . 9,463 12,109
Cash and bonds 29,332 53,288
Goodwill .. 101 101
£538,860 £586,526
To meet net additions totalling
£29,230 to fixed assets, mainly
the new bedrooms already
referred to, and strengthen the
holding of cash, etc., by £23,956
only £13,210 was added to the
outside debt.
Plans in hand include construc-
tion of more bedrooms covering
all available space on the fifth
floor, erection of a new eight-
storied building on the co. s
adjoining property in Adelaide-
street, and conversion of the
co.’s other adjoining property,
Salisbury Chambers, at the
corner of George- and Ann-
street, into a new air-conditioned
liquor-bar and quick-service
cafe. On completion of these
additions, the guest-occupancy
of the hotel will be increased by
50 p.c.
For the first half of the current
term the board reports a net
trading profit well in excess o.f
that for any previous half-year
in the co.’s history, and is paying
an interim 6| p.c. to the ords.,
which suggests that the intention
is to maintain the rate at 12| p.c.
p.a.
y. ■
Mount Lyell (Tas.)
A LARGE copper-mining and
-refining and investment co.,
Lyell has a paid capital of
£2,325,000 and reserves of
£2,204,798. Until last term the
bulk of post-war profits came
from investments, whose book-
value now accounts for 59.7 p.c.
of shareholders’ funds. The
mine, or more speculative side 1
of the undertaking, is a large
low-grade open-cut proposition ;
and a lot of money has been
spent of recent years on additions
and improvements to mill and
other equipment in order to
quicken and cheapen the output
of mine products. Though much
has been achieved in this direc-
tion, profit-earning in this section
remains largely dependent upon
the level of demand and main-
tenance of a high price for
copper.
For the year to June 30, 1954,
net earnings just about doubled,
reaching £398,845 (up
£198,532), thanks to a combina-
tion of favorable factors. One
was the strong revival of
demand for the metal, which
enabled stocks to be reduced
from an abnormal level at the
beginning to norpial at the end
of the period. This was respon-
sible for much of the total
increase in profit, the chairman
says. More encouraging from
the long-term point of view
were the mining and treatment
of a bigger volume of slightly-
better-grade ore at substantially
reduced costs, which more
than offset the effects of a
drop of approximately £AI2 a
ton in the average price received
by the co. for copper, £A33O
per ton.
The following comparison of
income and jts breakdown shows
the position in detail:
Income— 1953. 1954.
Copper, etc. .. £3,070,614 £3,122,129
Dividends . . 170,440 187,507
Total .. £3,241,054 £3,309,636
Exes.—
Mining .. 1,399,025 1,226,231
Refining, smelting 1,311,719 1,190,713
Development,,
depreciation 104,241 183,970
Administration,
etc 225,756 309,877
Total.. .. £3,040,741 £2,910,791
Net profit .. 200,313 398,845
The big saving in exes, on
account of mining (down
£172,794) and refining, etc.
(down £121,006) followed ore-
breaking by churn-drill and
employment of additional
mechanical equipment in the
opencut, and alterations to
the furnace flu-system and con-
sequent reduction of coke-
consumption in the smelter.
The £398,845 of profit was
17.1 p.c. on capital as against
8.6, 10, 8.4, 5.7 and 6.4 p.c. back
to 1949. Of the £398,845 about
60 p.c. (£239,307, or 10.3 p.c. on
capital) came from mining and
40 p.c. (£159,538, equal to
6.8 p.c. on capital) from invest-
ments, the chairman says. The
div. was lifted from p.c. to
81 p.c., making average distri-
bution over the last eight years
a shade over 6 p.c.
Tonnages handled during the
last two years were: -
Total Over- Assay
Materials, burden, Ore, Copper,
Tons. Tons. Tons. P.c.
’53..2,812,235 1,338,971 1,473,264 0.606
’54..2,923,462 1,347,714 1,575,748 0.714
The ratio of overburden to ore
was 1 to 1.17 last term as against
1 to 1.10 for the previous year.
The ore treated yielded 38,775
tons of 24.2 p.c. copper concen-
trates, and the fine metal
content of the blister compares
as follows:
Copper, Silver, Gold,
Tons. Oz. Oz.
1953 .. 8648 25,546 <6502
1954 .. 8938 32,979 4712
In addition 53,988 tons of pyritic
concentrates, assaying 49.3 p.c.
sulphur, were produced and sold.
The pyrites, gold and silver
make a welcome contribution to
mining profits.
Ore reserves stand at
47,597,000 tons, estimated to
average 0.73 p.c. copper, 0.0640 z.
silver and o.ooBoz. gold.
The year’s reduction in the
book-value of metal stocks was
£1,024,549, and £1,481,002 was
slashed off the overdraft, reduc-
ing it to £82,622:
1953. 1954.
Metals .. .. £l,-826,845 £802,296
Book debts .. 83,504 132,680
Stores, etc. .. 1,044,385 858,573
Shares other cos... 2,701,096 2,705,462
Total.. .. £5,655,830£4,499,011
Liabilities* .. 3,144,953' 1,750,313
Liquid surplus .. £2,510,877 £2,748,698
* Includes a 15-vear loan of £1,350,000.
The net improvement in the
liquid surplus was The
mine figures at £505,551, free-.
holds, etc., £121,060, and rail-
ways, hydroelectric and other
plant at £1,357,927 (up £33,703).
The London spot price of
electrolytic copper per ton, which
advanced from an average of
£5236.5 for August, 1954, to
£5280.2 for December, stood at
£5313.5 on January 25, 1955,
when the forward quote was
£5296.5. It all augurs well for
the current term’s results.
Lyell’s f.-p. £1 shares, which
fetched 16s. 3d. early in 1954,
stood at 21s. 9d. last week,
giving a return of 8 p.c. on an
8| p.c div. basis.


Lagy walkaboul
by PETER BLADEN
THERE are many reasons
why men “go on walk-
about,” ranging from the
desire to escape from dull
routine to the more noble urge
to visit the haunts of their fore-
fathers and to know more of the
country in which they live, both
its beauty and its harshness, its
legends and its promise.
Wanderlust and the thirst for
adventure! It need not always
be a thirst for the unknown,
sometimes for the discovery of
new delights in familiar things;
and though I followed no paths
which hadn’t been taken by
thousands before me, my eyes
were opened to worlds their
words had not adequately
revealed.
History isn’t dead. It is a living
force. The facts of the history-
books may seem dull, but history
itself is rich with the humor and
zest of men, explorers and
pioneering settlers, who greatly
enjoyed being alive. Echoes still
linger in the thoughts of their
descendants and those who
knew them, and in their journals
and letters, and even seem to
resound in the places where they
journeyed and made their camps.
If we wish to preserve and
develop our own national
character, it is necessary for
more of our young people to
leave the cities and to see the
country for themselves. Those
who are unable to afford their
own vehicles or the fares of the
tourist-coaches must join the
ranks of itinerant workers or
hitch-hikers.
I decided to take a bicycle. It
gave me a chance to be inde-
pendent, and to go where I
wished, dallying whenever I fdft
so inclined. Besides, a bicycle
isn’t much of an encumbrance
when the flesh weakens and the
spirit decides that an enclosed
van or a speeding vehicle will be
less arduous for a while.
It was my intention to camp-
out more often, but, unlike other
countries, we have not yet pro-
vided chains of youth-hostels or
adequate camping facilities. In'
many areas campfires are for-
bidden, and while the loneliness
of a solitary camping-trip can
be endured, townspeople are
more approachable to visitors
who stay at hotels and boarding-
houses than to those who sleep
alone under bushes, and, wishing
to meet the people, I had to face
the hotel-bills.
Most Australian travel-books
have dealt with the more
populous Eastern States or the
romantic North. The majority
of the people travelling between
Perth and Adelaide go by air or
sea, or across the Trans-railway,
and not many of the motorists
spend more than a few days on
the road, except for those who
have accidents. Perhaps this
record, which has been compiled
as faithfully as possible, will
serve to indicate some of the
things missed by the usual
traveller.
Some years ago many young
people were out seeing the
country. During my present
trip X met few. It seems that we
are in danger of breeding a race
of luxury-class-tourists and stay-
at-homes.
Perhaps those drivers who are
allergic to giving lifts will rejoice,
forgetting that, while one of the
greatest problems in Australia
is the centralisation of the people
in the capital cities, our young
folk are not being encouraged to
discover how good life can be in
the country areas, and to be
inspired by the kindness, the
industry and inventive genius,
and the genuine enjoyment of life
and good humor of the people
who live there.
Particularly should the beauty
and the poetry of native place-
names be better known. Already
changes in their spelling and the
chances of time have left many
of them to conjecture . . .
A Perth paper reported at the
time of my departure: “Poet
Seeks New Spirit,” and someone
later commented that I found it
at the Nuriootpa Distilleries.
More truly it should have been
said that a very ordinary citizen
with a love of his homeland was
seeking the old spirit of the
country, at least for himself, with
a fresh understanding.
I grew a beard. A few kind
souls said that I probably wished
to remind people of their grand-
fathers so that they would talk
more freely of the past, but most
agreed that it was merely
evidence of laziness. Few
realised that it was a good pro-
tection against flies, sunburn and
the matrimonial entanglements
which upset many walkabouts.
One little boy in a tram in Perth
clung to his mother and wailed:
“But, mummy, is he savage?”
Perth is my hpme T town. I am
blind neither to its beauties nor
its defects. When people in the
eastern States ask: “Where do
you come from?” and I reply:
“Perth!” they usually look as
surprised as though I had said:
“The moon!” Those who have
been there themselves invariably
say: “Now, that’s a pretty
place.”
Perth is pretty, but it is sn\all
and isolated. People who don’t
go there expecting miracles are
pleasantly surprised. Most
present-day visitors are content
to abandon their preconceived
ideas about what the city of such
a vast State should be, and revel
in the tranquil life and the
friendly hospitality of the people.
The city is indeed so small and
tranquil that one forgets that it
was settled some years before its
larger sister-capitals, Adelaide
and Melbourne.
/ My most pleasant memories
are of the sunshine, even in
winter, of the beaches at
Leighton and Cottesloe, and of
King’s Park. Perth from the
heights of King’s Park, both by
day and night, rivals any view
in the Commonwealth.
Nowhere have I seen cascade-
chrysanthemums more beautiful
than those at the Subiaco
Gardens, and Australia has no
finer university setting than that
of Crawley, while at Araluen, a
beautiful bush holiday - area
founded in memory of the fallen
,in the First World War, the
thought of stone monuments, for
all their grandeur, fades before
the spectacle of the natural pool,
the terraced gardens and water-
falls and the hillside walks.
There are also, of course, the
wildflowers, Rottnest Island, with
its memories of the convict
penal-settlement, and the Town
Hall itself, built by convicts with
a hangman’s noose in the stone-
work, London Court, a quaint
reminder of the fabulous gold-
mining ventures of De Bernales
before his fall, caves which rival
those at Jenolan and the karri
forests flowing with gold.
Perhaps in the near future
“the West” will be not merely a
place where the tourist enjoys a
tranquillity contrasting with the
rush and bustle of the eastern
States. Even before my depar-
ture work had commenced on
the oil-refineries at Kwinana,
where a chain of new cities is
being envisaged. The new oil
discovery in the north, and the
promise of uranium near Norse-
man, could work as big a trans-
formation for the State as the
discovery of gold. An influx of
population would encourage
such other industries as the;
whaling already under way at
Point Cloates and the blue-
asbestos mining at Wittenoom
Gorge. There should one day
be not only one city on the
thousands of miles of the
Western Australian coastline, but
many.
PERTH TO CUNDERDIN
A/TY friends gave me a send-off
at Crawley. It was a
beautiful day, and I cycled along
Mounts Bay Road musing on
wispy clouds, the shining river
and the slight haze over distant
scenes. Care fell behind me.
My face was turned towards a
timeless land.
Lazy smoke from factory-
stacks and suburban chimneys
drifted casually in the morning
The road, although a
familiar one, was green and
pleasant, and the blue hills were
before me.
Beyond Guildford and the old
Rose and Crown hotel I waited
behind a queue of fat ladies and
longwinded gentlemen to make
my last phone-call to my mother,
at Midland Junction.
While returning to the high-
way my gears slipped, and during
the frantic struggles to see how
they worked, I met my first
“friend of the road,” a chap who
told me that he was considered
“the peanut” on gears in Mid-
land. A few deft twists and
tugs and I was on my way.
Greenmount, Swan View and
Highview are names to
remember when you are on a
loaded pushbike. One excuse
for resting was a pause for lunch.
It was getting very warm, and
although I knew that the first
few miles into the Darling
Ranges would be the worst, I was
already deciding to send most of
my luggage on by train from
Northam to the goldfields.
The gates of the National Park
named after one of our greatest
explorers and statesmen, Sir John
Forrest, were a cheering sight,
as I had planned to spend the
first night down by the
swimming-pool.
After several miles the road
came to the terraced parking-
spots, and the gardens where
rough effigies of emus and
kangaroos greet the visitor. The
gardener approached, to upset
my simple plans. “Sixpence to
park the bike!” he said. “And
you have to be out on the high-
way by sunset.” At my look
of surprise he added: “That’s
the law!”
At sunset I returned to the
highway. Mundaring Weir was
not far away, the life-giver to
hundreds of miles of country
ahead of me. Beyond the pretty
stone hotel at Sawyer’s Valley I
made camp in a clump of
saplings. The leaves were vivid,
with a crackling brown carpet
underfoot. An occasional train
in the distance, crickets chatter-
ing, and traffic laboring on the
hills, composed my first bush
symphony.
I ended by falling asleep,
happy at the warmth of the
night, and the splendor of the
half-moon when it rose, the
rustling leaves, tree shadows, and
of course the stars.
In the morning most of my
possessions were blackened with
charcoal! It is difficult in many
parts of the bush to find an
uncharred tree, and in the
twilight I hadn’t.
Once again it was a beautiful
morning. The roads were shin-
ing and patterned with the
shadows of bordering trees.
Turnoffs led to York, and to
Wooroloo Sanatorium, to Linley
Valley, a cottage-community
which is a colony of the
sanatorium, the Tom Allan
Methodist Boys’ Home at
Werribee, and at Wundowie two
or three miles from the road a
thriving settlement at the
Charcoal Iron Works. But my
only visit was to a railway-
worker’s hut at Koodjetta for
water. Further on was Baker’s
Hill, still a small place, the most
go-ahead establishment being the
local pub.
This was a countryside of
scattered vineyards, sheep and
sawmills, and the hills (for a
motorist) were gentle. At Clack-
line Refractories, Ltd., fire-
bricks and fire-cement are made,
and I found Clackline itself set
in quiet and pleasant surround-
ings. Across the railway-bridge
the miles went creeping by. It
was getting hot, and I would
have liked to be in Toodyay,
twelve miles away, when a sign
advertised ■ swimming, golfing


and tennis. My search for mile-
jposts and the uphill treks on foot
became steadily grimmer.
Before Northam there were
recruit-training camps. Notices
at the roadside cautioned that
the speed-limit was twenty miles
an hour, because of marching
troops. Another notice was in
German, for the benefit of New
Australians.
Northam spreads over a
pleasant valley beside the Avon
River, which is picturesque in a
stagnant sort of way. The main
street is an extensive one. I
went the length of it before find-
ing a hotel with a vacancy.
Many hotels are miserable
places, where the guest dines
alone. But I was lucky. In the
dining-room the company was
pleasant. The conversation was
cheerful, dealing largely with the
size of the soup-spoons. One
chap declared: “If a truck got
bogged out the back we wouldn’t
have to look far for shovels! ”
We enjoyed watching the
waitress chasing paper serviettes
around the room whenever the
fans were turned on. A New
Australian, instead of saying,
“Please keep your knife and
fork,” when we had finished the
entree, she would say, “Would
you please to take your cut?” I
went right through the menu at
all the meals.
Northam has a large floating
population, including many
commercial-travellers. A few
stayed at this hotel, and when
the bars closed at nine they
would gather in the bedrooms.
They were friendly chaps,
especially one who decided
around bedtime to hold a
concert, whereupon The licensee
joined the party and decided
otherwise.
The best part about the hotel
was the bedroom. While I had
no inspiring views of dwindling
valleys and sun-etched hills, the
window was framed by leaves,
looking out on to a small green
World of boughs and lawns and
creepers. It was one of those
hotels where the morning paper
is brought round with a cup of
tea, where youngsters let down
the bike-tubes, and someone
fours the corridors before break-
fast inquiring whose pyjamas
were found trailing from the
dog’s jaws.
. Such things, added together,
make the guest feel a part of the
life-stream of a place. It seems
a pity to add “The mosquitoes !”
Most country towns I have
seen are shabby in comparison
with Northam. The shops are
bright and airy and the trades-
people are friendly. It is pleasant
to be treated as a human being
with needs to be filled, rather
than “a bit more custom,” which
unfortunately is more often the
case in the cities.
Northam shows its progressive-
ness and community co-operation
in a number of ways. All the
shops in the main street are
converting to cantilever-verandas,
which are an improvement in
appearance; plastic wrappers are
supplied to each customer by the
butcher; angle-parking is in
force on one side of the main
street; sufficient funds are raised
in the annual appeal to run an
ambulance-service, which, unlike
Perth’s, is free; and school-
children contribute £2 a year for
books, which are provided on
loan during the year.
The editor of one of the local
papers told me that there were
fourteen drapers in the town, and
eight churches and eight hotels,
though perhaps, he considered,
the churches might now be one
ahead. The town (I was told)
has the best country golf-club
in the State, the best cycling-
track, which is floodlit and
bitumen, floodlit grass-courts
and sports-grounds.
There were still a great
number of migrants at the
holding-camp. Some hadn’t
learned to speak English, and a
few had wild tendencies, plus a
fondness for stroking young
ladies.. It may not be the place
to mention it, but the population
in and around Northam is nearly
15,000.
We were sitting at breakfast
on the morning I left when a
mighty thump resounded
throughout the hotel. For a
moment I was afraid I might
be leaving this earth as well as
the town. It sounded at least
like a bomb or a plane-crash in
the main street. When we went
outside we saw a pile of veranda-
posts and corrugated-iron outside
one of the shops across the road,
and a civic-minded citizen of
Northam explained, with evident
satisfaction: “Another shop is
converting to the cantilever-
veranda ! ”
The bike was much easier to
push, and, without a headwind,
cycling became a pleasure. So
I cruised along, past the
Trelawney stud-farm, where a
notice informed me that Nawab
was standing the season ; past
dry paddocks whiskered with
stubble, those bare brown acres
where our hardy sheep manage
amazingly to find sustenance;
bridging dry creek-beds and over
gentle rises.
It was warm, and I rode at
times without a shirt, really
enjoying myself. At the side of
the road, once, I passed a
battered utility crowded with
natives, men, women and
children, and they chattered
excitedly when they saw me.
The cyclist can see much more
than those who travel in speeding.
vehicles. He has more time to
contemplate the passing scene.
In the loose stones and dust at
the roadside, during the morning,
I found many treasures: a half-
penny and a spanner, and later a
b'rand-new crescent-spanner, a
pair of rusty pliers and a bank-
book with a shilling deposit.
It was reminiscent of the gold-
rush days, when the weary
travellers to the ’fields had gradu-
ally discarded all manner of
articles which at first had seemed
indispensable, soon becoming
merely cumbersome; though
wind and accident were respon-
sible for the things I saw, the
handkerchiefs by the dozen, a
blue scarf, two straw-hats and
countless fan-belts.
About 70 miles from
Perth there was a turn-off to
the Grass Valley Hotel. The
grass and the valley both looked
pretty dry. Meckering, some
miles further, seemed a leisurely
township. Further on was the
bowling - green, , a beautiful
expanse of lawn with a neat club-
house, and, beyond, the open
countryside.
Just out of town I called at a
house with an admirable stone
fence, wide verandas and
pleasant gardens, to replenish my
water-bottles. It was Scheme
water and good to drink. In a
paddock opposite, a spindly
lamb was trying to shelter from
the sun, wobbling along in the
shade of its mother, whose
maternal duties were continually
overcome by her need to nibble..
A wheat-train passed me,
going south, and there was a
turn-off to Goomallirig, the first
country town I ever visited. I
was four and a half at the time,
and still bear the scars.
This was typical wheat-
country, slightly undulating,
with scattered dry salt-pans.
There were crows squawking
dismally, and trees lonely in the
paddocks, with here and there a
straggling line of them, or a few
acres of scrub. The first rabbit
of the trip sped across the road,
a few yards in front of the bike.
Waeel was a small place. I
remember two houses, a wheat-
bin and the railway-shed. All
varieties of birds, lizards and
empty bottles came into view as
I cycled on. A pretty parrakeet
darted from a roadside bush.
There were countless salmon-
gums, graceful and cool.
For years I had heard of
Cunderdin, one of the biggest
wheat-sidings in the State. The
season lasts longer there than at
most of the sidings, and in yield
it is usually at the top of the
list.
It was about three-o’clock
when I arrived.
The township is on the
opposite side of the railway-line
to the highway. Originally the
town-site was planned near the
highway, but the hotel was built
across the line, and the township
followed it. Most visitors speed
along the highway without
deviating and probably declare:
“This is a nice little town, wasn’t
it?”
It was hot—los in the shade, I
later heard —and I called at the
hotel to quench my thirst.
Cunderdin, I thought, would be
one of those towns which I
would visit for several minutes,
without saying more than “Nice
day!” to the inhabitants. But
I didn’t know Cunderdin.
In the bar I met Mac, and
after a, few minutes Mac intro-
duced me to some of his friends,
and before I knew where I was,
it had been decided that I would
have tea with Mac in his caravan,
and spend the night in the spare
bunk.
They were a friendly bunch.
I remember, particularly, three
old-timers: Aubrey Martin,
peering at the world from
beneath bushy white eyebrows;
George Mitchell, a big chap who
became even bigger when he later
posed for a photo; apd George
Harris, with one glass-eye.
George Harris first came to the
area in 1898 before the township
was planned. He was then a lad.
He returned four years later with
his father when the town was
surveyed, and when the
pumping-station and the rabbit-
proof fence were being erected.
The pumping-station was the
third I had passed on the Kal-
goorliepipeline. It has meant a
lot to Qinderdin.
I was told that George was
one of the few men ever to
receive one of the bricks for
which so many men hand over
their money to publicans. When
the new hotel was erected he was
presented with the brick at an
official ceremony. It was said
that he had well and truly earned
it.
George Mitchell wanted to
pass round the hat on my behalf,
and the other two began arguing
about who had been longest in
the township. It was a friendly
argument. The whole atmosphere
was friendly.
Mac said that the town had
only one drawback—the change-
able weather. One day, he said,
it was so hot that you could fry
eggs by holding the pan but in
the sun, and the next day there
would be one of tfiose cold, lazy
winds, so lazy that it went right
through you instead of taking
the trouble to go round.
Cunderdin, I learned, is a
Community Centre. As Mac
later summed up: “A lot of
things have been happening
around here, and everyone has
been waiting for a long time for
someone to come along and
write the town up.” I was recog-
nised as “a writer chap” and
eagerly pounced upon, but there
was nothing selfish in the
enthusiasm.
“For the present,” said Mac,
“drink up and enjoy yourself.
Everyone will talk their heads off
tonight, but you can write down
anything you want in the morn-
ing for your article!”
“Article?” echoed one of his
cobbers. “The article I want to
see right now is a schooner of
beer —set ’em up, Dan!” And
for a non-drinker I did pretty
well.
William Brighty’s poem had
been one of my favorites:
I wish I lived in a caravan,
With a horse to drive, like a pedlar
man;
Where he comes from nobody knows,
Or where he goes to, but on he goes!
But I had never before been
in a caravan. Mac’s caravan was
quite self-contained ; and it was
interesting to see where every-
thing went. There were fly-
wire doors and windows, a
kerosene-stove, lighting and a
water-pump and even the
kitchen-sink. I knew that I
would hit my head quite often,
and would have to squirm before
I could sit at table, and my
expectations weren’t disap-
pointed. Our bunks were at
opposite ends of the caravan, and
when either of us turned during
the night the whole caravan
rocked.
Some of Mac’s younger friends
came over to meet me. Mac said
that my visit would be a nine-
days’ wonder ; and it was exciting
to be asked for my autograph.
In between the drawings of ships
and wise remarks about the
banisters of life and friendship
which decorated the youngsters’
books I inscribed my name, and
in return received their
autographs. One of the lads,
flattering me in the sincerest way,
by imitation, wrote a rough
verse, interrupting his literary
labors to make a few inquiries
about verse-construction. Young
Stanley sent me his poetical con-
tribution later in one of his
letters.
The boys, with a couple of
their friends, looked over the
bike, and departed happily with
something from Mac for ice-
cream and cool-drinks.
We had an enormous feed of
steak-and-chips. While we were
eating, a siren sounded, inter-
rupted by a series of three toots.
It was the fire-hooter, Mac said,
and the toots were a sign that
the fire was getting out of hand
and threatening the town.
I had seen smoke from one fire
west of the town, and now we
could see a white pillar billowing
in the north. Mac said there
wouldn’t be a soul left in the
bar. We could hear the trucks
and cars starting off for the
blaze.
Cfie good excuse for Mac’s
non-attendance at the fire would
be file fact that he is 110 per
cent. dead. He showfid me papers
which prove he is in receipt of
a 50-per-cent.-disability pension
from the British Army for the
First World War, and for a 60-
per-cent. pension from the Aus-
tralian., Army, Second World
War. That, he summed up, left
him 110 per cent, dead, or at
least 110 per cent, unfit to be
alive.
After tea we went to the beer-
garden to meet more friends.
The beer-garden is a pleasant
spot where husbands and wives
and friends take a quiet drink
together, while children romp
on the lawn, babies in prams
suck at bottles, and dogs hang
around waiting for attention.
One of the babies was known
as Peanut. He had been a tiny
prem.
Next morning after breakfast
the hotel-manager took me on a
tour of the township in his car,
including a visit to the 18-hole
golf-course.
Such a burst of enthusiasm
for a stranger was overwhelming,
and my first visit to a Community
Centre left a deep impression.
This, I thought, would be the
world’s best answer to Com-
munism—the sharing of natural
advantages through fellowship,
rather than oppression and force.
Five years ago the Jhotel was
bought as a community venture,
and two years ago extensive
alterations were undertaken.
The beer-garden is only one
amenity in a long-range design
which will turn the township
into more of a country club. A
committee is always on hand to
hear the suggestions and recom-
mendations of the townspeople.
There are several factors in the
town’s favor. There has never
been a crop-failure in
Cunderdin; the town boasts a
wonderful community spirit;
and the pumping-station is
situated there. At the pumping-
station there is an overflow from
the pump-cylinders of about
27,000 gallons a week. This
water is being utilised to trans-
form the town-site into an oasis
of beauty.
A swimming-pool is being con-
structed, and the water, after
flowing through the pool, will
spray the lawns of the courts,
memorial-gardens and the new
football-oval which is encircled
by a full half-mile trotting-track.
Farmers donate wheat to the
Community Centre. Equipment
is often loaned free of charge,
and voluntary labor is used
freely. We visited the oval.
(Continued on next page )


where a busy-bee was at work.
Nine men were making cement-
bricks for the new pavilion. No
contract-workers could have
toiled as willingly.
We drove past the hospital,
and the spacious grounds and
buildings of the Junior High
School, the beautiful home with
terraced gardens and stone walls
built by the owner of one of the
largest stores, the cottages which
he has constructed for each of his
staff-members, and the well-
equipped machine-shops of the
pumping-station.
I stood for a long time look-
ing out over the lawns of the
courts and the bowling-green.
Once Cunderdin was known as a
big air-force training-base. Now
it is a prosperous Community
Centre. The wheat-bins are the
largest I have seen.
As I prepared to leave
Ctmderdin, the friendly town of
community co-operation, two
little girls shyly produced their
autograph-books, inspired no
doubt by their brothers, and at
the school I saw Mr. Mitchell,
one of my friends, “The Three
Worthies,” watering the school
rose-gardens.
CUNDERDIN TO
COOLGARDIE
T RODE away from Cunderdin,
singing to myself, and went
through the rabbit-proof fence
without realising it.
At Livesey’s siding there was
little to be seen, not even Livesey.
Tammin, however, is a township
with a pleasant pub and green
lawns. In the West it had
been known as the ice-cream
town, because it was the home of
Beau Don, the famous trotter,
whose owner promised ice-cream
to the local youngsters if the
champion'further added to his
laurels.
It was rather warm and I was
very thirsty, calculating, as my
water-supply diminished, that I
was averaging 40 miles to the
gallon.
The country hotels in Western
Australia open for an hour at
noon and again in the evening on
Sundays. At Kellerberrin the
“mad hour” had just finshed,
and two of the participants
insisted on shakihg my hand at
great length. One of them kept
repeating that he thought I was
a New Zealander, possibly
because he had once seen a New
Zealander with a beard.
Kellerberrin is larger than
Cunderdin, another “nice little
town”! A few miles further on
I was involved in a moving
episode. Six natives on a truck
gave me a lift. They would have
taken me through to Hines Hill,
but a mile west of Doodlakine
they called in to see some rela-
tives at a camp in the bush.
We stopped not far from the
bough-and- brush shelters where
the relatives were living. It was
a pleasant camping-spot. A
utility was drawn up near by,
and a chap, evidently a Govern-
ment officer, was talking to the
natives. It appeared that they
were being ordered to move on.
My friends on the truck told
me that they would have to stay
to help their relatives to shift,
and that they would pick me up
again on the far side of the
town, but they did not catch up
with me again. Goodness knows
what breach of the by-laws their
kin had committed, but they
were kindly to me.
At Doodlakine a storekeeper
sold me a pound of pears, not
including in the weight the one
he allowed me to sample—not a
money-making move, but such
things leave a pleasant taste in
the mouth.
There were saltpans by the
road; At Bandee some young
folk were playing tennis, and
children were climbing through
the rear window of the hall near
by, no doubt intent on raiding
the afternoon-tea baskets. Hines
Hill, I was relieved to discover,
was more of a level plain.
It was late-aftemoon when
the Merredin wireless-masts and
the buildings of the Agricultural
Research Station came into sight,
One of my friends was working
at the station, and there I spent
the night.
The Research Station does
interesting work. There are
thousands of varieties of wheat
in the State, which are classified
and tested for relative virtues,
You will find there the weak and
the hardy, the local champion
and the imported grain, fine long
ears, and stumpy shaggy ones,
perhaps even the ALgilops ovata,
related to wheat-grains found in
the Egyptian tombs. There are
all types of barley, and it was
odd to hear of experiments to
develop a variety without
whiskers.'
The choicest spot was the rest-
garden, bordered by tea-tree
wind-shields, and with overhead
sprinklers giving out a light
spray, to keep the air humid so
“I'd like to meet the bloke who said We could go without a drink for ten days!”
that wheat can be tested for rust-
resistance. We turned on the
taps and it was the coolest I had
been all day.
Next morning, a few miles
further on, after breakfasting in
a deserted farmhouse by the road
with bobtail-goannas for com-
pany, I was given a lift by a
chap in a Water Department
truck out on a pipeline-main-
tenance job.
At Rurracoppin we picked up
another traveller whose motor-
bike had had a blowout. Past
WaduHa, a lonely place, we
came to the turn-off to Westonia,
on the fringe of the goldfields.
Gold was discovered there
accidentally by two men, one
named Weston, who were cutting
firewood. The streets of
Westonia were named after
minerals, Scheelite, Pyrites,
Quartz, Diorite, Wolfram, Jasper,
Granite (running north and
south); Galena, Mica, Gold,
Cement, Kaolin and Pegmatite
(east and west). It is now mainly
a cockies’ town.
We passed through tea-tree
and low scrub, and there were
long streamers trailing from the
salmon-gums, whirring and mak-
ing putt-putt noises in the wind,
Pumping - station No. 5
was an oasis of pines and palms
in the bush ; and at Boddalin my
lift came to an end.
There were miracles in the
bush, of morning mist, opalescent
fires glowing in the distance,
mirages of light, with phantom
trees drifting against a glowing
white background.
Later there were willy-willies
spiralling across the paddocks,
and once I nearly collided with
a bobtail crossing the road.
There were flocks of galahs,
and pigs in paddocks, a sow with
a litter at the roadside, once a
dead kangaroo, and every now
and then another lost handker-
chief. Travellers on this road
must be for ever blowing their
noses!
At Noongar, near the station,
a lonely shed, I stood beneath
an overhead tap connected with
the pipeline and had a shower ;
and somewhere near Nulla Nulla
I came to grief.
There was a long, slow hill,
and the metal road was sharp and
uneven. As I battled upwards,
one of the shock-absorbers was
jolted into the spokes of the front
wheel and the bike suddenly
crashed down. It happened in
slow-motion, and I remember
saying: “Oh, no!” while I
thought: “This isn’t happening
to me! ” But it was.
When I picked myself up
again blood was dripping from
my hands and knees, several
spokes from the wheel had gone,
and also the mileage-recorder,
The wheel was so badly buckled
that it grated on both sides, and
had worn through the rubber to
the canvas before I had pushed
the bike very far.
It was more than five miles to
the next township, Moorine
Rock, and the walk seemed to
take hours. There was no
garage, but the train for
Southern Cross, 14 miles ahead,
arrived a few minutes later, and
my stay at Moorine Rock was a
brief one.
It is difficult to assess a place
on such brief acquaintanceship,
I have heard of a travelling
dentist who bemoaned the fact
that he had to go there, but once
he had met the people his
attitude changed, and he even
used the township as his base,
and went back there on social
calls from Perth.
The pub is as typical of an
English inn as any you would
find in Australia. The country is
dry, but with water the soil can
work miracles. One story tells
of a farmer who went on holi-
days, leaving a Dutch chap in
charge, with instructions to water
the garden. His request was
carried out only too well, and
he returned to find his garden a
mass of huge pumpkins, with
vines feet high, inundating an
old fig-tree and hanging from
the boughs.
spent the train journey
millions of flies.
Southern Cross in the Yilgarn
Gold&M H«lgara”
isnt an inspiring place to visit by
f rain - i&e passenger to toe Last
1S awakened witn a jolt and
P eers out - darkness. It
a moonlit night he may see
a * straggling iron houses,
and that is about all. Ihe remark
applied to early Kalgoorhe could
ea sily apply to Southern Cross as
seen trom the tram: A town or
P e PPer-trees, lavatories and
corrugated-iron. And he would
tmmc Southern Cross too good
a name to waste on such a place,
But let him leave the railway-
line and walk to the monument
at the top of the rise, and he will
see the rest of the township,
Away from the scattered iron-
buildings and -sheds, the dilapi-
dated houses with junk in their
yards, a new realm is entered, the
road dipping away to the post-
office, and a decent Town Hall
with an unusual clock-tower.
There are hotels and shops. To
the right are the old batteries,
relics of the town’s boom-days,
and a beautiful brick church,
which was designed by a
Spaniard, no doubt one of the
monks from New Norcia.
Southern Cross used to be one
of the best-lit towns in the State,
and many airlines’ passengers
mistook its lights for those of
Perth. The streets are so wide
that some people say you need a
cut-lunch when you set out to
cross them,
Old-timers said Southern Cross
was noted as the home of goats
and Deeming. Deeming was an
eccentric fellow who enjoyed
cementing women beneath his
hearthstone,
The gold discoveries in
Western Australia followed a
trail leading from the north
down to Golden Valley, the site
*of the first goldmining lease on
the eastern goldfields. The
popular story is that natives told
two of the miners, Risely and
Toomey, of a spot still further
south where gold could be found,
and the men are said to have
sneaked out of camp in the
darkness, using the Southern
Cross as a guide, and that they
made their camp on a hill over-
looking the present site of the
township.
In the early ’nineties Southern
Cross was a peaceful mining
town. Then Bayley and Ford
made their great find further on,
and the people here and at
Northam grew wild with excite-
ment. Soon men from all over
the world were thronging east-
wards through Southern Cross,
But mining declined, and
agriculture slowly developed,
Thirty years ago, Southern Cross
was considered a marginal-area
of the wheatbelt. The land was
divided into 1000-acre blocks,
which proved too small for
profitable working, and there are
many derelict farms. Now the
holdings are larger and more
successful.
The gangs for the railways
and the water-pipelines, and the
roads, keep the township going,
but it is a town in waiting.
Perhaps with the boom at Bull-
finch, Southern Cross will again
prosper; and even since my
visit, there are reports of new
discoveries of iron-ore and iron
pyrites in the vicinity.
The Anglican minister in the
town, a young man with an area
of 3000 square miles to cover,
and six centres in which to hold
services, took time off to be my
host for the evening. Before
leaving on the following day, I
visited the Mines Department.
There are 11 other departments
which keep the office going, and
I was able to look through the
old registers of births, deaths
and marriages, mining-leases and
so on. In fact, the whole staff
joined with me in the search for
early history and we had an
entertaining time.
There is much sadness in the
early records. Many children
died in infancy, because of the
scarcity of water and sanitation
and doctors, and fever was rife.
Most of the miners who
died were men in their 20’s.
There was a plague in the early
years, with many deaths from
typhoid ; and there were frequent
suicides.
Southern Cross started up in
1888. The first recorded death in
the Yilgam district was that of a
child in convulsions in 1891. The
first marriage and the first birth
recorded took place in the same
year. By 1895 the deaths were
in the hundreds. But the records
are not all gloomy. The first
child bom at Golden Valley was
a girl, with the surname Flint.
The wee mite was overburdened
with the Christian-names Golden
Valley Quartz. .
Whether the story of the
naming of Southern Cross is
true or not, it is an interesting
one, and the stars have had their
say in the naming of the streets.
Where else is there a town with
so much of stellar beauty and
classical mythology in its street-
names?
There are streets named after
constellations: Taurus (the Bull),
and Hydra (the Sea-Serpent),
Orion and the Scorpion;
and others named after stars:
Polaris, in Ursa Minor the Little
Bear, nearest to the celestial
pole; Sirius, the brightest star
in the firmament; Castor and
Pollux, the white and the deep-
yellow twin-stars in the constel-
lation Gemini; Procyon and
Rigel in the constellations Canis
Minor and Canis Major, the two
dogs which follow Orion the
mighty hunter in his quest across
the heavens; Aldebaran, the
great reddish eye of Taurus the
Bull; Altair, one of the sun’s
nearest neighbors, a mere 141
light-years distant; Antares, the
brilliant red star in the Scorpion,
one of the four “Royal Stars”
of Persian astronomy; stars
known to the ancient Greeks and
the Egyptians, thousands of
years before Christ; the bluish-
white Vega in Lyra (the Harp);
Arcturus in Bootes (“the Eternal
Ploughman”); and Pegasi (from
the Winged Horse); Crateris
from the Cup, one of the smallest
of the constellations, and
Draconis from the Dragon, one
of the most extensive.
I wonder if the people in
Spica-street know the story of
their star, the pure white gem in
Virgo (the Virgin). Tradition
says that Isis, escaping from the
monster Typhon, dropped a
sheaf of corn, and was translated
to the skies in her beauty, while
the scattered grain from her sheaf
became the Milky Way.
And I wonder if the Fathers
who named the streets realised
their quaint mixture of Classical
and English, and faulty spelling;
while I fancy that some of the
names beloDg to stars I have
never seen!
{To be continued next week )


THE
BULLETIN
Who Made It, and Why
Houe “The Bulletin” Began
By NANCY KEESING
ON Saturday, January 31,
1880, the newsboys of
Sydney hung about the
entrance of a broken-
do w n old building in
Castlereagh-street, waiting for
bundles of a new weekly paper
as they were issued damp from
the press. That day, for 4d.
(reduced to 3d. the following
week), the citizens of Sydney
could read, for the first time, and
in very small print, the columns
of The Bulletin.
The first column of page 1,
headed “A Matter of Public
Concern,” stated: “Excellence is
the passport to success in
colonial life and The Bulletin
bids to win. The aim of the
proprietors is to establish a
journal which cannot be beaten.”
The “best men in the realms of
pen and pencil” would con-
tribute: “The public eye rejects
as uninteresting more than half
of what is printed in the publica-
tions of the day. It is only the
other half which will be found
in The Bulletin.”
Looking at the first number
today one finds oneself in agree-
ment with J. F. Archibald, who
founded the new paper in
partnership with John Haynes,
and who almost certainly wrote
the manifesto: in 1907 Archibald
wrote that “in its early issues
The Bulletin was a poor thing
compared with the publication of
later days and larger growth.”
This is not to say that the first
issue lacks interest. There was,
for instance, the famous scoop
on the hanging of the Wanta-
badgery Bushrangers, Scott and
Rogan, which took up two pages
of the issue’s eight, including an
interview with and portrait of
“Nosey Bob,” the public hang-
man. And there is the fascina-
tion that always attaches to old
and historical material. But one
does wonder what qualities
precisely it had (apart from the
energy, loyalty and enterprise of
the early staff) to enable it to
live, flourish and grow into a
national institution.
Perhaps some idea of why the
new paper caught on may be
gained from a glance at copies
of other papers of the period.
Sydney in 1880 boasted a
number of daily and weekly
papers, and there was an active
country press in all the eastern
States and in New Zealand. One
of the best New South Wales
weeklies, and one which serves
for comparative purposes, was
“The Town and Country
Journal,” at which The Bulletin
jeered impertinently, and which
it early christened “The Down
and Gumtree Jernil.”
That established rival pub-
lished in the ’eighties good
literary material by the best-
known writers in Australia. It
was well printed (which the early
Bulletin was not), and well
written in the style of the time.
As all good weeklies did, it
ran lengthy and excellent
summaries of the week’s news
at home and abroad. Its
Christmas numbers were large
and elaborately illustrated. And
it was respectful to those in
high places, and unequivocally
“upper crust” in its attitudes to
affairs.
The Bulletin, partly modelled
on the sprightly style of con-
temporary American journalism,
spoke in a voice new to most
Australian readers. Thus, in an
early dig, it noted that “The
Town and Country Journal”
had a glo wing picture “of South Head
last week, and a neat little article with
it. The writer went into heroics over
the scene there during a storm. He
spoke of “the turbulent billows lashed
into fury,” of “the huge, merciless
waves climbing in angry spray up the
face of the frowning cliffs,” and then
added: “South Head is well worth a
visit in such a storm.” We think it’s
worth more. It’s worth keeping away
from.
In Sydney at the time there
were also various scandal-sheets,
mostly (like several begun by the
clever and unscrupulous Harold
Grey, who became one of The
Bulletin’s most valued early
contributors of the stinging, witty
phrase) very short-lived.
The reasons for their deaths
were usually that the journalists
who began them were not good
businessmen. They lacked
capital, and a glance at most of
the little lost papers finds meagre
advertising.
Archibald and Haynes lacked
capital if ever anyone did, and
what they had, as someone
remarked, they mostly carried
under their hats. But Haynes
had a genius for selling
advertising-space. The first issue
carried four columns of ads. on
its back page, and a few of the
advertisers were fine fish to land.
The Theatre Royal announced
the final performances of Miss
Maggie Moore and Mr. J. C.
Williamson in “Positively their
last six nights” in the “Unpre-
cedented Success of ARRAH-
NA-POGUE and KERRY”-
the Victoria Theatre advertise*
a show called “Our Dad” ; and
at the School of Arts there were
Madame Camilla Urso’s
Concerts (Madame’s portrait
appeared on page 1 of the first
Bulletin).
There were other theatrical
and entertainment advertise-
ments and a number of hotels
and a coffee-palace had space;
so did the Licensed Victuallers
Association, and Lawrence
Foley, whom most" Sydneysiders
knew better as Larry, their
champion of the ring.
Larry begged to
“inform his numberous
friends and the public"’
that he had become the
owner of the United
States Hotel in Woolloo-
mooloo, where he had
“spirits, wine or beer of
a quality not to be sur-
passed in the colony.” He
also had a “large Athletic
Hall adjoining the above
Hotel,” where, as
Champion of Australia,
he \yould continue “to
give instruction, on
moderate terms, in the
ART OF SELF-
DEFENCE.”
Anthony Horderns’
advertised a sale, and
Horderns in Pitt-street
had 144 collars for 3s.
There were Coach
Builders and Saddlers,
Caterers and a Sydney
Cup Consultation; a
Portrait Photographer;
Professor Stanich, who
treated deafness, and a
Veterinary Surgeon who
had an oil to peddle
which “prevents the con-
sequences of exposure in
diggers, shepherds,
carriers and such as must
encounter damps.” There
were a Gunsmith and a
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist, and a “Missing
Friends and Next of Kin
Office.”
Haynes had been busy,
and continued so, for the
advertising increased
mightily week by week.
The general tone of the
early Bulletin was dash-
ing and breezily
irreverent; but if it had
ceased publication after its first
two years or so it seems unlikely
that anyone would have been
consulting it in 1955 for artistic
and literary material or for social
comment.
Its policy was republican; it
was against the cant and
pretentiousness of colonial
“society”; but it could scarcely
be said to have been the mouth-
piece of “the worker” or “the
common man.” Rather it
gossiped for and about the
unfashionable but substantial
merchant, and the equally
unfashionable and highly unsub-
stantial Bohemian (vide the
mapy pars, about journalists and
artists and their hilarious experi-
ences with bailiffs and pawn-
brokers).
The episode which gained The
Bulletin its reputation Tor dis-
interested campaigning for
reform was the famous Clontarf
libel action, as a result of which
Archibald and Haynes went to
jail for debt (until an aroused
public subscribed the £7OO
required to set them free).
Resulting from the confusion
over this affair, W. H. Traill, who
had written the controversial
(Continued on next page)
J. F. ARCHIBALD
(From the first issue of “The Lone Hand,” May, 1907.)


article, virtually became owner
of the paper.
W. H. East, who helped put
the first issue into type, remain-
ing with the paper to be foreman
printer at his retirement in 1928,
set down some reminiscences,
and, like everyone else who has
written of the founders,
was puzzled as to “what influ-
ences combined to bring Haynes
and Archibald into this business
partnership. There certainly
was,” he said, “no affinity
between them.”
Haynes [Mr. East wrote] wore a
perennial smile which was calculated
to disarm the unwary, and his florid
complexion and twinkling blue eyes
gained for him the sobriquet of
“Happy Jack.” Archibald was taci-
turn and morose; Haynes talked
incessantly. Archibald wrote snappy
pars; Haynes provided the material
out of which they were made. The
one thing the two men had in com-
mon was an almost empty purse. I
once heard Archibald boast that he
started The Bulletin with £lOO.
Haynes had been a freelance journal-
ist. His speciality was “writing-up”
descriptive advts. embracing the
history and growth of city businesses.
Haynes relinquished his
interests in the paper in 1885.
Apart from his talents for secur-
ing advertising and for supply-
ing ideas for cartoons and pars,
his chief value to Archibald
would probably have been as a
foil. No doubt his practical
energy saw the early numbers
safely into the hands of the
agents; and Archibald, nervous
and moody, and who described
Haynes as “half fat priest and
half fat comedian,” must have
found in him the ideal business
companion. Archibald said (in
1907) that he used to look to
Haynes as to a brother, for, he
said, he was “almost ever-
hopeful.”
East in his reminiscences
described the difficulties under
which the first numbers were
produced—in a series of unsuit-
able buildings, upon antiquated
machines, set in poor type, and
always amid the uncertainties of
financial crisis. Haynes it was
again who, East recalled, bore
the brunt of visits from debt-
collectors during the first three
months or so of The Bulletin’s
existence.
Archibald’s memoirs (pub-
lished serially in the first six
issues of “The Lone Hand,”
though not completed, owing to
ill health) are a treasury of early
journalistic anecdote, concern-
ing mainly Melbourne (where
he knew Marcus Clarke) and
Sydney, but he had only touched
briefly on the actual founda-
tion of The Bulletin when the
series ended. Here is his account
of the ideals which culminated
in the publication of the new
paper:
Sydney in the early days of The
Bulletin was a Cant-ridden com-
munity. Cant—the offensive, horrible
Cant of the badly reformed sinner—
reigned everywhere. There was no
health in the public spirit. Socially,
politically, all was a mean subservience
to a spirit of snobbery and depen-
dency. What was most Australian in
spirit had been lost by the secessions
first of Victoria and then of Queens-
land. Sydney, socially, limped in
apish imitation after London ideas,
habits and manners. Politically and
industrially it was the same. And over
all brooded in law courts, press and
Parliament the desolating cruelty in-
herited from “The System.” Sydney
invited revolt from existing conditions,
and The Bulletin was the organ of
that revolt. It was to stand for more
humanity in the laws, more freedom
in Parliaments, more healthy indepen-
dence in the press.
Without detracting from
Archibald’s services to Australian
literature, it was probably Traill
who gave the paper the
atmosphere in which Archibald
and his writers and the black-
and-white artists could do their
best work.
It was Traill who set the
paper’s high political standard.
An unsigned leading article in a
later Bulletin expressed the
situation thus:
[The Bulletin’s] position towards
the end of the first year was so
desperate that it passed for a time
completely out of the hands of its two
founders into those of W. H. Traill.
There seems now to be no doubt that
it was the best thing that could have
happened, for Traill brought in a
mature judgment and an experience
which neither of the others at that
time possessed. During the next six
years he put the big things in the
paper; he gave it a national Austra-
lian character; he converted it from
the Freetrade into which it had been
born to Protection; he brought in
first Hopkins and then Phil May and
set an entirely new standard in Aus-
tralian newspaper illustration.
The same article pointed out
that, whereas when Traill took
the reins Archibald was still only
24, and no more, in fact, than a
keen reporter, when Traill
retired and Archibald again
assumed the editorship he was
an experienced and established
man of 30, who, moreover, no
longer had to give his mind to
politics, because James Edmond
was now on the staff and was
destined, more than any other
man, to give its character to
Bulletin political writing.
It was during the ’nineties,
with Archibald and Edmond
working together and A. G.
Stephens conducting the Red
Page, that The Bulletin reached
the position in Australian letters
which remains unassailable.
Exactly how important The
Bulletin had become in our
national life at the turn of the
century, and not only in
our own Australian view, can
be seen from an article which
was reprinted in 1903 from the
London ‘‘Times.” The “Times”
article was directed against The
Bulletin’s financial policy, its
argument being that this excel-
lent (in some respects) paper used
its influence for entirely repre-
hensible and anti-English ends.
After some details of the Aus-
tralian scene comes a heading:
“The Bulletin”: Important,
Dangerous, Beyond Suspicion, Can-
did, Grim.
Some selected sentences convey
the “Times’s” assessment;
It is hard to overestimate the ex-
tent to which this journal modifies the
opinions (one might almost say the
character) of its readers. Most Aus-
tralian newspapers alter no one’s
opinion, being read only by those who
already agree with them
The Bulletin is beyond suspicion
[in the matter of being the voice of a
ring or clique]; its editorial columns
express the definite beliefs of two
or three individuals whom its readers
know —not of any party; its candor
verges on the cynical, but the Aus-
tralian has no objection to humor in
his politics or grimness in his jests
It was The Bulletin that educated
bush Australia up to Federation....
The Bulletin is not a political
journal only ; it is the nurse and the
critic, sometimes severe but sometimes
friendly, of every young Australian
who wants to write about the things
he feels and sees. It will print, and pay
for, anything connected with Australia
that is put clearly or said well, be it
love-verse or snake-story, or note on
the hab'its of a blackfellow tribe. It is
read for this reason by very many who
detest its politics.
The “Times” reminder that the
paper paid for any and every
contribution used is important.
This policy, dating from its
earliest days, was probably one
of the main reasons for its
success. Not only did it mean
that all sorts and conditions of
men who would not normally
have put pen to paper in the
cause of journalism did so, but
eventually many writers who
might conceivably have pre-
ferred to continue contributing
to the older and better-produced
magazines transferred their
allegiance to The Bulletin.
For instance, after 1882 John
Farrell scarcely published a
handful of verse anywhere else.
It has even been argued that, had
a magazine such as this been
started 10 years earlier, neither
Henry Kendall nor Marcus
Clarke might have died so
untimely.
By the end of the ’nineties the
regular contributors form a list,
practically without exception, of
the great names in Australian
literature; a claim that remains
substantially true for any list that
might, be compiled for sub-
sequent decades up to and
including the present.
By the turn of the century
there were, or had been (jotting
some of them down at random),
Ernest Favenc (explorer and
sub-editor), Archibald Meston,
Randolph Bedford, Louis Becke,
Fred Broomfield, Henry Lawson,
“Banjo” Paterson, Will Ogilvie,
E. J. Brady, Will Lawson (still
writing today), “Price Waning”
'(William Astley), C. J. Brennan,
Roderic Quinn, Edward Dyson,
George Essex Evans, Brunton
Stephens, Victor Daley, Hugh
McCrae ( and his father > George
Gordon McCrae >’ Bernard
O’Dowd, C. H. Souter, Edmund
Fisher > Jose P h Fur P b Y (“Tom
Collins”), and many others.
A little later Ernest O’Ferrall
(“Kodak”), David McKee
Wright and John B. Dailey joined
the stair, anu the team ot writers
included John Shaw Neilson,
R. j. Cassidy (“Gilrooney”),
t j J n
G * F Dennis, Mary Gilmore,
H. C. McKay, E. S. Emerson
(“Milky White”), E. N. Me-
Culloch C A Jeffries Albert
~ ullo . cn > ,;Y ies ’ /v | Derl
Dorrington and G. B. Lan-
caster” (Edith Joan Lyttelton),
to name only some of the con-
. ■ . * u .
tributors whose work was
eagerly looked for.
There were other authors well-
known in their day who have
been mostly forgotten. The
tragic Barcroft Boake lingers in
the Australian memory because
several of his poems have been
included in the stock anthologies,
but to how many does the name
of “Scotty the Wrinkler” mean
anything? Yet he was considered
by the Red Page to be a fine
short-story writer and prose
In subsequent pages of this Seventy-fifth Anniversary
Number, The Bulletin honors Norman Lindsay, not only
for his having easily the longest associations with this
paper as contributing artist (represented by characteristic
examples of his work over 50-odd years), but also (in the
extracts from his latter-day letters to Douglas Stewart) as
a tribute to his * eminent place in Australian literature as
counsellor and helpful friend of writers and in his own
writings. ¥
stylist, and his “Aboriginalities”
pars were immensely popular.
Another interesting contri-
butor of the ’nineties who has
been rediscovered was a German
named Stefan von Kotze, of
whom more will be heard
shortly, because some of his
works in German, which the
Red Page thought uncommonly
good, and which describe Aus-
tralia, are being published in a
new translation by Melbourne
University Press.
Von Kotze was not only a first-
class writer in his native tongue
but a prolific producer of both
prose and, of all things, light
and often humorous verse in
English. His writings (in
English) appeared both in The
Bulletin and in Queensland
papers, he having spent a good
deal of his Australian time in
North Queensland, and also in
New Guinea.
The Red Page accorded Von
Kotze a fine farewell when, in
1901, he returned to Germany,
or, as it was expressed, “to his
father’s house of many
scansions.” One gathers that,
before the ship sailed, The
Bulletin had been handsomely
entertained by the foreign host,
who “read his own poems in an
ecstasy of emotion which pre-
vented utterance. You saw lips
moving, but no voice issued.”
Until his early death in 1909 he
remained a regular contributor.
There was too, the pathetic
J. A. Andrews, self-styled
“Anarchist,” who, between 1893
and his death in 1903, was always
ir V /
good for a paragraph either by
or about him, and who once cut
a full set of wooden type to
nrint hk nnmnhlefs on Anarchv
P( mt “ 1S pamphlets on Anarcny.
This harmless eccentric was
jailed for his beliefs, when, as
The Bulletin said, no one could
, , .. ’
have been more innocuous.
In black-and-white art The
BULLETIN, of course, has per-
formed as important a service to
Australia as in politics and
literature. Again Traill was
largely responsible for giving the
paper its high reputation in this
department, because of his
engagement of “Hop” (Liv-
ingston Hopkins) and Phil May
in the early days.
Archibald, however, deserves
the credit for visualising a paper
which would be a force in the
world of art from its earliest
issues. This vision of his from
the beginning led, for instance, to
William Macleod’s association
with The Bulletin (he was to
be its manager for some 40
years). The association began
when he was a young black-and-
white artist working as a
freelance:
I can remember [Macleod wrote]
Archibald sticking me up in the street
and asking me to do some cartoon
work for a new paper he had on the
stocks. I consented, and our first ex-
perience was connected with the hang-
ing of two men, Scott and Rogan.
Archibald and I went along to the
residence, of the hangman, a man
named Howard, afterwards better
known as “Nosey Bob.” Archibald
got his interview and my part was to
remember the characteristics of the
hangman’s features, which was a
fairly easy thing because he was nose-
less. This drawing appeared in the
first issue of The Bulletin.
Macleod and Sam Begg were
the first two regular artists. They
both agreed, shortly after its
foundation, to take a financial
interest in The Bulletin in lieu
of salary. Neither bothered to
have this agreement set down in
writing—they didn’t think it
worth while!
Archibald knew his muttons
in the art world. He admired
Longstaff and bought his famous
“Breaking the News” for £9O at
an auction. The female figure
in this work was Signora
Majeroni—she and her husband
were among Archibald’s earliest
friends.
Detailed art-criticism was
appearing in the paper long
before any very good or regular
book-criticism became a feature,
and many of these comments on
art were almost certainly Archi-
bald’s. Poor and stiff as many
of the old wood-engravings that
illustrated the pages look today,
they were the best the proprietors
could afford at the time, and
Archibald’s dreams of a well-
illustrated paper must have
provided stimulus to Traill in at
last securing both really lively
draughtsmen and the photo-
engraving process which The
Bulletin pioneered in Australia,
and which enabled good work to
be well reproduced.
Archibald’s interest in art and
his fine citizenship are, of course,
further perpetuated in the annual
Archibald prize for portraiture
and in the beautiful Hyde Park
fountain that bears his name.
George Rossi Ashton drew for
the paper early; and Alf
Vincent, George Lambert, Frank
Mahony and B. E. Minns were
others. D. H. Souter was
supreme in his depictions of
girls and cats ; there was David
Low with his political cartoons;
and there was Norrnap Lindsay
with his unrivalled work, which,
apart from its technical excel-
lence, mirrors, in illustration,
joke-block and cartoon, the
entire 20th century to date in all
its life, its absurdity, its tragi-
comedy of political dishonesty,
its cold tragedy of war.
As M. G. Skipper has written:
“Lindsay stripped humanity
bare he threw conventional
restraints overboard, and per
medium of an amazingly
dexterous line presented his
fellow-man in the psychological
altogether.”
In the same way that Bulletin
o Continued on page 44}


On Life and Writing
Some Letters from Norman Lindsay
Norman lindsay’s
major works must have
numbered among them the
enormous mass of his
correspondence which, when it
is collected and printed, as one
day it will be, should amount to
two or three very large volumes
—and most readable volumes,
too, scarifying in some of their
personal comments, full of pro-
fundities on art, literature and
philosophy, everywhere crack-
ling with the lightning that per-
vades everything he touches.
Before saying anything else
about the letters, this is a con-
venient place to recall some of
Norman Lindsay’s other produc-
tions —incredible in their profu-
sion and variety.
There ;■ are, for instance, his
ceramics—not that he has played
about much with pottery, but the
last time I was at Springwood I
saw a dinner-plate he had
decorated with some new
medium for Mrs. Lindsay, and
those nymphs skipping around
in that glow of color would
have made a dish for a king.
There is his statuary, rang-
ing from a few little figurines in
* plastic-wood to the big groups
of statues in cement that ride
the grey horse in the fountain
at Springwood and the nudes
who stand so gracefully under
the greenery of the coral-trees
on the lawn. I think some of
these were done when the sculp-
tor Rayner Hoff was staying at
Springwood, and if the ceramics
are a trifle in the artist’s out-
put, some of these statues are
rather more than that;
especially the head and torso of
a sphinx who sits on the track
down to the dam in the bush
and who used to look her finest
When the black-wattle tree, now
rotted away, shook over her the
creamy blossoms which, some-
times at night, the flying-
squirrels used to visit. I remem-
ber watching them one night
with Percy Lindsay, Norman’s
brother, the landscape-painter
... now lost with the black-
wattle tree, while the cement
sphinx and his own exquisite
little canvases live on.
There are the ship-models,
better known to the public, since
a few of them have been
exhibited: most fine and intri-
cate pieces of craftsmanship
with, I believe, every detail
correct in all that tangle of
rigging and bewilderment of
gadgets. Norman Lindsay told
me once that he believed he
could sail a ship round the world
—a potential feat in which he
took more pride than' I have
ever heard him express about his
painting. There is something
about sailing a ship or riding a
horse (or casting a dry-fly for
that matter) much more grati-
fying to the mind than merely
posing as the Artist.
There are The Bulletin car-
toons (some of which have gone
round the world—Churchill
owns one —done merely as a
week-by-week bread-and-butter
job and often with groans of
exasperation) which in them-
selves would have made a repu-
tation for anyone else to rest
■on. Occasionally I saw Norman
Lindsay at work on them when
he lived in his studio in Bridge-
street, and I don’t think they
ever took him more than two
hours to do, but—if I’m not
giving trade-secrets away—
Norman always waited till late
in the afternoon to deliver them
to the office ... to show how
hard he had to work to earn
his money. They were conscien-
tious jobs, all the same; and he
valued his journalistic work as
a way of keeping his hand in
trim, “exercising a faculty.”
There are his novels: The
Magic Pudding , long established
as a children’s classic (with,
incidentally, some astonishingly
good light-verse in it, based on
W. S. Gilbert); Redheap, still
banned by this benighted coun-
try but the richest and truest
picture we have yet had of an
Australian small town; Satur-
dee, which R. G. Howarth once
compared with Tom Sawyer,
and which I found, on making
the comparison, much better as
a book about (as distinct from
a book for ) boys, Mark Twain
going off into mad melodrama
with Injun Joe after Tom so
gloriously paints the palings,
while Norman Lindsay’s urchins
stick to the red earth that
spawned them; and, among
others, that delightful reminis-
cence of his art-student
youth in Melbourne, A
Curate in Bohemia,
which doesn’t lose any-
thing by comparison
with Murger’s La Vie de
Boheme. Murger is
champagne, lovely and
light and bubbling; the
Curate a rougher Aus-
tralian vintage, but with
rather more body to it.
Then, after all that, we
come to what really
matters: the pen-
drawings, rated by all
connoisseurs in the
highest world-class; the
etchings which the
printer Charles Shepherd
used to be able to prove
went further than Rem-
brandt technically and
which are certainly so
different in their masses
of figures and blaze of
white light from the nice
little landscapes of such
etchers as D. Y. Cameron
as to seem another order
of art altogether; the
oils, among which the
huge “Don Juan” hang-
ing jn his studio at
Springwood, the nude
“Imperia” in the book
of his oil-paintings, and
nearly all the head-
studies of “Rita,” are
things of enduring loveli-
ness ; and the water-
colors, which are my
own favorites amongst
all his work —I don’t
think anything like these
vast, sparkling,
symbolical interpreta-
tions of life, love and immortality
has ever been done in watercolor,
anywhere in the world’s art.
Those who have not seen Nor-
man Lindsay’s “blue” water-
colors in particular, the mysteri-
ous caverns of the sea or the
moonlit skies full of beautiful
young naked witches, do not
know what heights art has
reached in this country.
Of course every phase of all
this stupendous artistic output
has been attacked again and
again. Myself, I am content to
agree with every criticism that
has been made of Norman Lind-
say’s art: how could he possibly
turn out that colossal pile of
work and not have faults in it?
Only, I would make the one
simple reservation: beyond all
his faults he has genius . . . of
the rares.t and the greatest kind.
The letters, with the critical
essays he has contributed to
The Bulletin, are a world in
themselves. There must be
thousands of them ; some of the
best, I should' think, in the
packet written to Hugh McCrae.
My own collection, though I
have enjoyed Norman Lindsay’s
friendship since I first suggested
at a Bulletin cartoon confer-
ence that he might draw Musso-
lini having a Roman bath in the
Mediterranean, isn’t particularly
large or representative; mostly
because, since writing is my
trade, I don’t write letters. But
as an example of what Norman
Lindsay has squandered on a
very poor . correspondent, and
as a sample of the riches that
exist elsewhere, these extracts
should be worth printing.
I should add that I have
Norman Lindsay’s permission
for this disgraceful breach of
confidence; and I could add,
too, that I don’t envy the
scholarly editor who will some
day have to sort out the whole
mass of his correspondence:
not one of the letters is dated
all are headed, simply,
“Springwood”—and that’s going
to make a fine headache in
tracing allusions. It is one of
NORMAN LINDSAY
Photo by Max Dupain
the privileges of being an
immortal that time does not
exist.
Douglas Stewart.
Letters
Byron
I’VE been urging Howarth
[R. G. Howarth, editor of
“Southerly” and of Byron’s
Letters, etc., in Everyman’s
Library] by letter to tackle the
problem of Byron. It needs to
be done. No one has seen the
significance, at least in type-
matter, of Don Juan. I want to
put to Howarth my theory of
its constructive break, and see if
he agrees with it.
The forces against Byron
were so tremendous that they
succeeded in confusing him in
the end, but he is the one poet
of that era who stood alone in
opposition to those forces. The
whole dead weight of sterilised
poetic imagery, of Miltonic
Puritanism, of sermons as best-
sellers—just sum up the earth
he had to face and see what a
feat it was to write the first
cantos of Don Juan.
And no matter whether Keats
and Wordsworth wrote better
poetry (as one examines it for
the perfection of style and
imagery in selected passages)
they were on the side of forces
against Byron. Byron remains
a heroic figure, both in his life
and his work, but the others —
they played safe. Outside the
few brief episodes of youthful
rebellion against the stultified
earth, one searches their lives in
vain for any evidence of per-
sonal dignity. I don’t include
Shelley in that group; he had
splendid courage, even if he was
constantly looking for death.
I agree with you in hating to
see poets attacked, but what is
one to do about poets who
attack poetry? In desperation
for something to read the other
night I tackled Idylls of the
King, which I hadn’t read since
my youth. The Idylls left me
flat; the same jog-trot flatness
one gets from Pope. Mecha-
nised verse, competent enough,
but with no more vitality than
a tapestry pattern.
But the dedication ! To the
memory of Albert the Good.
Tennyson on his belly licking
Queen Victoria’s bunioned
boots. And in some unforget-
ably good lines, too. My love
for poetry itself insists on label-
ling Tennyson the most igno-
minious poet who ever lived.
Since the Gods exist only to
destroy us, think what sardonic
yells of laughter must have gone
up over Tennyson solemnly writ-
ing that preface!
The Universe
Many thanks for sending up
Bellamy’s book [ Before the
Flood by H. S. Bellamy]; I was
desperate for something to read,
and this is the sort of diversion-
book I like most, for it gives one
theories to toss about and medi-
tate over.
I accept all Bellamy’s evi-
dences of cataclysm and its
time-factors, but I reject alto-
gether his theory of its cause,
because he doesn’t account it to
periodic cataclysm but spas-
modic cataclysm, which is to
throw the whole thing back to
a first-cause plus chance and
accident.
He’s got one moon disposed
of and another suspended for a
threat of future cataclysm, and
then what? Does he suppose
those fields of gravitation that
scientists talk so owlishly about
will bring along a few more
moons to carry on the business?,
Putting aside the obvious fact
that the moon exists to soothe
the forlorn human terror of
isolation in space while giving
poets a fascinating image to play
with, and artists a difficult tonal
problem—a piece of fantasy-
mongering that must send the
average scientist into a fit of
hysterics—we can’t have any-
thing to .do with scientific
fantasy-mongering either, the
moment it gets off the earth
itself.
All its presumptions about
space must be purely hypotheti-
cal, because it is becoming more
and more obvious that what we
see of outer space isn’t what we
see at all.
We can accept, or at least give
a certain respectful attention to,
a hypothesis based on data under
our noses ; and, for the present,
Joly’s theory of periodic cata-
clysm by the gradual genera-
. tion of radio-energy in the earth
itself, thereby causing expansion
and contraction of the earth’s
crust, is the most feasible. It
accounts for the sinkage of
mountains by the melting of
their basalt sub-strata and the
upheaval of sea-bottoms be-
cause they offer least resistance
to internal pressure; and every
piece of data adduced by Bel-
lamy to support his tide-girdle
theory can be applied directly
and more effectively to Joly’s
theory.
That tilted-up strandline -of
the in ter-Andean sea, for
instance. It is rational to assume
that volcanic action altered the
water-levels; there’s plenty of
evidential strata on end to sup-
port that assumption, but that
a sustained planetary pull could
do it is just lunacy. It doesn’t
need the assumption of a spas-
modic major and then minor
cataclysm to account for the
overflow of tidal waters into
land-locked spaces. By Joly’s
theory there must have been re-
peated minor cataclysms going
on for long after the great major
cataclysm, which concluded a
cycle of recurrent .radio-energy
and began a new one.
Even yet the earth has not
arrived at a stable continental
period, and it’s on the cards to
expect a minor cataclysm yet.
Certainly the bloody place de-
serves it, for what is going on
in Europe and Asia at present.
Essential tests of heroism ad-
mitted, the thing is going too
far.
But that’s by the way, and
would have to bestow another
fit of hysterics on the scientific
pundit by assuming a man-made
cataclysm . . . though even he
might be induced to meditate
dimly over it as a possibility, by
his own discovery that the only
thihg which affects radio-energy
is an explosion of cordite, which
throws it nine degrees out of
radiation, whatever the effect of
too-intensive bombing might be
on that rather disturbing reve-
lation.
I distrust all scientific hypo-
theses dealing with first-causes
that fall back on chance and
accident to explain cosmic
events. We are committed
finally to Eternal Recurrence,
by what has been already
demonstrated of the cycle of
radio-energy, eternally expend-
ing itself from one substance to
be renewed in another.
All the same, Bellamy’s book
o Continued on next page)


is very important, by its undeni-
able evidence of cataclysm it-
self. This problem has been
disturbing archaeological bad-
conscience ever since the last
war, but it appeared to have
languished after the Fawcett
expedition vanished in the wilds
of South America and was never
heard of again. Fawcett went
with the avowed intention of
proving that a prehistoric civi-
lisation existed which had every-
thing our present civilisation has
evolved and a great deal more.
The urge behind that quest is
a need to demonstrate to pre-
sent-day man that civilisations
may perish very easily by any
disruption of the forces which
maintain an earth’s stability in
space. If those are to be
accounted only to some spas-
modic intrusion of forces or
bodies from outer space, then
we can only shrug our shoulders
of any further responsibility
over such an irresponsible busi-
ness. But if the physical stability
of an earth is in some mysterious
way involved with the moral
stability of mankind, then we
have something pretty serious to
1929
Illustration to “The Quartermaster’’ (the serial version of “A House Is Built,”
winner of the first Bulletin novel-competition).
think about. For myself, I re-
ject any presumptions dealing
with chance and accident as the
cause of cataclysm. The only
P lOn 1S ,h f‘ l£ u a
Jrnt J Tv “, E de V
. mn
e es roye .
. .
Domestic Duties
Thanks for the various exer-
tions you’ve been put to on my
account. Wrapping-up parcels
I count one of the major nuis-
ances of life. I’ll go through
[Francis] Webb’s poems and
write to George F. [G. A. Fergu-
s '? n of Angus and Robertson]
E -ii Ut u .ut Wl th pleasure. It
will be interesting to try the
ettect of a fair mass of his work
and see what its collective impact
amounts to.
I haven’t done anything but
type since you left, with brief
interludes of poisoning weeds,
feeding cats and counting gold-
fish. Rose [Mrs. Lindsay] did
not come back till Friday night,
so I had an interlude of per-
forming kitchen-chores on my
own behalf which I find on the
whole a pleasing diversion. With
a little practice at systematising
jobs I think I should become
expert at it. I counted up time
employed on them and found
that about two hours’ work a
day completes all that need be
done for getting three meals and
keeping a kitchen in order;
which two hours would be de-
tached from working hours, any-
way.
I couldn’t get on with that
Frenchman’s novel. That flat
and depressed viewpoint on life
is obnoxious to me. Have been
reading The Age of Innocence,
by Edith Wharton, which is ad-
mirable. The viewpoint de-
tached, ironic and never senti-
mental, and the style excellent.
In the best Pride and Prejudice
tradition of woman writers. I’m
astounded that I’ve missed her
up to this.
m „ „•
Tom CoUms
I’m reading the little Tom
Collins work [ The Buln-Buln
and the Brolga ] with delight.
The humor is delectable. And
the outlook so excellently
sardonic.
It comes especially sweetly to
me at this moment, for out of
desperation I’ve been reading
some modern novels—notably
one [ The Horse’s Mouth ] by a
curate masquerading as a todgh-
guy, named Joyce Cary, I
think—told in a ghastly mixture
of crude colloquialism and
whimsical stylism that made my
stomach heave. A leisurely,
sophisticated style spiced with
humor, such as Furphy’s, comes
as something fresh and new on
the mental palate after the
forced hothouse gabble of the
average modernist scribbler.
You must take my Don Juan
down next time you come and
read it in good type. For all the
casual way the latter part of it
drifts along, there emerges from
it an intimate portrait of Byron
himself; as intimate as if one
was sitting in the same room
with him. Your sudden dis-
covery of a charm in Pope is in-
teresting. I see that you get
from him what I can get from
the 18th-century painters; no
profundity in passion or reality,
but a charm that is mendacious
and fascinating. Delacroix re-
fers to it as an “abominable
cleverness.” But its witty ease
is unquestionable . . .
The Powys and Chevallier go
with this. I couldn’t stick John
Cowper’s translation of Rabe-
lais. Tampering with holy
writ. He’s an exasperating fel-
low. I’m sure he did it with
his tongue in his cheek to exas-
perate me, which is to say, any
reader who has absorbed
Urquhart’s version.
Arnold Wall
Arnnirt Wnll’c nnpm« r The
and Other /WcT' are
pSy deUgWM S
reading them all the week. oS
and on, and they hold their
quality with an increasing tempo
of interest the more one reads.
One of their special charms to
me is in that quality of a per-
fectly-balanced civilised mind
contemplating the general mad-
house of a man-made earth and
thereb Y rendering its destructive
ur § es futile the stabilising
content of its thought,
I couldn’t resist writing to
Wall, so will you post the en-
closed on to him, as he appar-
ently lives in Christchurch and
his publishers in Wellington, so
I don’t know where to address
it?
Lance’s sea-piece [Lance Solo-
mon ; a painting bought by
Mrs. Lindsay] continues to en-
chant me. I wrote to you last
week about it. I still go in daily
to look at it. Poetry makes me
do this sort of thing, but pictures
rarely.
Autobiography
That [a tribute to N.L. in a
letter] is a very handsome and
generous outburst on my behalf
of Fitz Gerald’s and touches me
in that obscure region where I
secrete self-esteem. It pleases
me also as a tribute to the qual-
ity of Fitz’s poetry, for no man
speaks in that assured tone of
another’s work who has not
grappled with and dominated
his own. I don’t care a dump
for the opinion of artists about
my work, but I do like to think
that poets like it. And if, in a
haphazard way, I have been
able to do something for poetry
in this country, I have been
more than rewarded by the
response of poets to my work.
In that respect, and in respect
to the general attitude to my
work which Fitz sums-up so
ingeniously, and to the collective
antagonism which has always
existed, and still exists, I arrive
at a quandary over that novel
Rooms and Houses [still un-
published]. I don’t want to press
the damned work on your at-
tention, but, whether rightly or
wrongly said, there is a certain
outlook in it that should be
said. The question is, should I
say it?
Of course the work should be
judged purely as a novel, and if
it fails to justify itself as one,
the outlook it seeks to define —
the conflict between Man and
Art —is not enough to justify its
existence. I want you to be
extremely frank on that score.
Since I write novels purely for
the same reason that Harold
Skimpole l; ate spring lamb, I
really am free from prejudice
about them. I don’t stand or
fall by them; they are an exer-
cise in a metier which I have
wilfully imposed on my own
work, and it won’t matter a
flick to that work whether the
novels are forgotten tomorrow.
But as an artist I have had
a peculiar destiny in this coun-
try, which in public, from the
very start, has attacked it from
every possible angle, yet in pri-
vate has bought it and sup-
ported it. I haven’t liked the
business—in fact, there have
been times when my loathing
for the mob-hatred for me and
my work has almost suffocated
me, morally and physically. The
reason that I have torn up two
autobiographies is that I tried
to define that process and the
state of mind it engenders, and
found it impossible, because, to
express it with an air of intellec-
tual detachment is not to express
it at all, and to express it with
any sort of passion is to feel
undignified. That novel, Rooms
and Houses, was the effect of
those destroyed autobiographies.
So what about it? Is it worth
recasting as a novel, or should
I throw it aside? It is impos-
sible for me to arrive at any
estimate on it, either as a novel
or autobiography in the form of
fiction —a form of the novel
which is rarely successful.
Southey
Thanks for sending along the
Southey biography [by Jack
Simmons]. There is in it one of
the best side-on views of
Coleridge that I have read. Any
revelation about the whole group
of that period is interesting, but
all the same the author does not
convince me that Southey
matters a damn to literature. If
he had not got mixed up with
Coleridge and Wordsworth, I
doubt if we would ever have
heard of him, other than as a
casual journalist of the period.
Nor do I believe he wrote a
good biography of Nelson. He
was too much of a pious prig
to have understood a vital, in-
spired, and non-moral mind like
Nelson’s a man dedicated
fanatically to his destiny. The
author claims that Southey was
the first to write a precise, clear
and direct prose after the 18th
century.... Southey is a dull
dog, a rotten poet, a lousy critic,
and if he lived today would be
on the staff of the “S. M.
Herald.”
Ship Models
I have deliberately taken a
spell from work, having been
going at some pressure for over
a month, with the usual result
of a period of hard mental con-
centration that I’ve thrown my
belly out of gear. As idleness
is almost a worse affliction than
a bellyache, I’ve started a ship-
model to fill in time ; one of the
Torrens, Conrad’s ship. I’ve
always had it in mind to do one
as a pious tribute to Conrad, so
there is an added interest in
making a precise replica in
miniature of the decks he walked
as first-mate of that really lovely
ship.
Francis Webb
I agree with you about the
major quality of Webb’s poetry.
I’ve been reading Ben Boyd
[A Drum for Ben Boyd] re-
peatedly since it came out, and
its quality becomes more con-
crete the more I read it. It
pleases me very much also that
you’ve come to the conclusion
that Leichhardt [ Leichhardt in
Theatre] is the finer work.
I’ve held that all along. Its
violence and intensity put it on
a much higher plane than Ben
Boyd, which is treated all
through in a sardonic detached
way. Not that I cavil at that;
it was precisely the right key
in which to project a type like
Ben Boyd; a man who cared
for nothing but exploiting his
own egotism by grandiose
schemes, but with no driving
motive in him to bring them to
a constructive finality. Except
for the element of the adven-
turer in him, he was not very
different from the type, rais-
ing money at anybody’s expense
in order to scatter it about lav-
ishly. The best thing he did as
material for art was to vanish
mysteriously on that island.
Otherwise he might just as likely
have landed in quod over some
financial deal.
It was an evidence of Webb’s
inspired taste that he took pre-
cisely that key to a poem on
him, just as-be pitched the key
to one of violent fantasy over
Leichhardt; a tragic - comic
figure.
I’ve been pondering over your
holding up Homer as a drastic
example of where our poets here
fail in competition, and am not
sure that I agree with you
wholly. The epic in that form
could hardly be done again these
days. I agree that you are right
to take a central theme in
human passion and dramatise
it, but to do that today the form
could hardly be epic in the same
sense as Homer. We have added
too many psychological com-
plexities to the concept of man
to build him up in stark forms
as Homer did.
And again, though I’m all for
the long poem, its length must
be proportionate to its material.
I read [Browning’s] “Mr. Sludge”
through last night, and more
than ever was enchanted with its
perfection as a form of art; a
perfection which quite dispenses
with any weight of poetic
imagery. Again, I believe that
the last book of The Ring and
the Book might stand as a per-
fect art-form, but the whole
work is too unwieldy ever to
move into the mass of human
consciousness. Why write
poetry only for poets and a
small group of readers who give
themselves wholly to poetry?
True, the energy of the work
may be transmitted through
them, but it would do its job
better if it was in a form more
easily assimilated. I have a feel-
ing that Browning over-indulged
his special faculty for his own
diversion in that work. He got
a lot of pleasure out of showing
the variations he could play on
{Continued on page 26)


AUGUST 13, 1914
THE WAR GOD SOUNDS HIS GONG


one theme. It was a problem
that interested him deeply in
music and he applied it to
poetry.
I wondered if you were doing
a little evangelising on Shelley’s
behalf when I found you’d left
him here. I spent half an even-
ing over him, but for me he
could only be a poet to be read
in brief extracts. After I’ve read
a few pages the facile even flow
of his verse leaves my mind flat,
so that it fails to exert any
critical faculty. I read some of
your marked extracts and they
are unquestionably excellent,
but to read them in the mass of
the work sinks them again.
In fact, it was Shelley that
sent me back to reading “Mr.
Sludge” to revive my mental
processes. This is not a fair
comparison, I know, for one
can’t compare two such diverse
expressions in poetry. But,
putting that aside, I am forced
to conclude that Shelley’s poetry
is the last sort of poetry the
Gods desire to have written on
earth.
Our job, at basis, is a pretty
crudely realistic one. It is
wholly concerned with centring
human attention on the earth.
In the mud of earth, if need be.
I’m not overlooking one quality
in Shelley transferable to earth,
and that is light. A sort of
opalescent radiance. I could
use some of it in fantasy water-
colors myself. But the mass of
Shelley’s poetry is off the earth
—imagery drawn from some
ultra - mondane memory - cells.
It’s the reflection of Shelley’s
longing to escape into realms of
light and bliss and uncontamin-
ated beauty.
Uncontaminated, I mean, by
the essential violence and pas-
sion of earth. I’ve been reading
“Hellas,” which I grant has
violence in it:
“Go; bid them pay themselves
With Christian blood! Are there no
Grecian virgins
Whose shrieks and spasms and tears
they may enjoy?
No infidel children to impale on
spears” . . .
but one must sum up a poet by
the concept of life peculiar to
himself and I can imagine that
if one soaked oneself long
enough in Shelley’s poetry, and
allowed it to hypnotise one into
that off-the-earth atmosphere of
his, one’s capacity for facing the
reality of life would become
extremely debilitated. All this
is outside what aesthetic qualities
of poetry his possesses. But
that’s your business, not mine.
I never can read poetry for pure
virtuosities of style and tech-
nique. Its spirit, its concept of
life, its projection of reality,
come first.
Returning for the moment to
“Mr. Sludge,” there are a
couple of lines which instance
Browning’s staggering capacity
to see all round a problem:
Had I seen, perhaps, what hand was
holding mine,
Leading me whither, I had died of
fright:
Could anything more per-
fectly define that lingering con-
viction of an occult reality be-
hind the medium’s faking which
gives him a sudden shock of
terror? And Browning’s
admission of something occult
in it, too.
I’m glad the “Golden Lover”
picture continues to please you.
I’ve done one more and am on
another, having had my time a
bit disrupted by three arrange-
ments for that countryman of
yours, Douglass Glass, to come
up and photograph me, which
the rain postponed. But he came
on Wednesday and fired off
about 50 plates at me, and as he
took them while we talked, I’m
prepared to find myself looking
like an animated lunatic in them.
Not that I care. Time and the
Gods turn our faces to low-
1946
FRIENDS TOGETHER, IN ALL SORTS OF WEATHER
comedy masks. I liked Glass
well, a sturdy, bearded fellow
who has met all sorts of
notabilities and talks most enter-
tainingly of them.
Goethe
Your comments on Byron’s
plays are very pleasing to hear.
I have something of a con-
science over having neglected
them myself, but even in early
youth I was always seduced
away from them by Don Juan,
and these late years it’s the small
type in the only editions I’ve
seen which has put me off read-
ing them. You must bring up
your edition on the next visit
and let us have a reading
of those parts you mention.
Astonishing that you should
have detected Browning’s style
in them. Browning was an
ardent reader of Byron in his
youth.
How admirable are Goethe’s
criticisms of Byron and his
works, except for the “Vision
of Judgment,” which he was all
at sea about. I daresay humor
in that key would be incompre-
hensible to a German, even as
great a one as Goethe. His
thought is final on all other
matters. Clear, precise thinking,
which goes straight to the core
of any complexity. The satis-
factory thing about his outlook
on the creative problem, plus
Aristotle’s, is that its laws are
finite. All the mad experimen-
talism in the arts which rejects
them is completely futile. They
might as well rebel against the
cosmic principle which stabilises
the earth in space. In effect,
that is what they seek to do.
I still hold that the urge
towards self-annihilation is the
deepest motive in the mass of
mankind, and only a very small
proportion maintain the power
of self-integration. It seemed
possible to Goethe that there
was a progressive impulse to-
wards stabilising culture in his
day, but that was merely be-
cause the culture-groups were
small, and the whole mass of
the people were dumb-oxen.
But we’ve seen the effect on
them of cheap education, news-
papers and radio-contacts, arid
the urge towards self-disintegra-
tion in the mass has found its
voice, and dramatised its urge,
as witness Europe and European
art today. Goethe saw some-
thing of it coming, in his com-
ments on the moderns of his
day, for the moderns of any age
are the people, of course.
It’s a mistake to compare
Eckermann [Conversations with
Goethe ] with Boswell. Both are
working on diametric opposite
principles. Eckermann is,
rightly, on his knees to Goethe,
and if he had ever witnessed
anything that belittled Goethe
he would have censored any
mention of it, while Boswell’s
bright malicious eye never
missed anything that made a
goat of Johnson.
I don’t altogether agree with
the theory recently advanced
that it was Johnson’s first crack
at Scotchmen that inspired Bos-
well with malice, because I
think he really liked Johnson,
as a lot of others did, but Bos-
well had his art and, like Mr.
Venus, knew how to practise it.
Eckermann is just a first-hand
reporter of conversations, with
none of Boswell’s subtle obser-
vation of character. Fortun-
ately he was, for we get Goethe
intact, and he is superb, but I
don’t know whether he always
carried out his own precepts in
work, for though he insists that
a writer should be quite clear
in his own mind about the
“motif” (the psychology) of a
character, he confesses that he
could not precisely explain that
content in Wilhelm Meister s
suicide. He said in effect that
they should take the book as a
piece of life, reflecting his own
outlook when he wrote it.
Personally, I can’t accept
suicide as a psychological state
worth taking seriously, for it is
a final confession of futility and
a futile character cannot be
profound or even tragic. I think
Goethe submitted to the normal


depression of youth which likes
to toy with the idea of suicide,
but rarely suicides. This is the
first book I’ve read for a long
time with gusto and stimulus.
The Weather
Yes, I admit that I’ve been in
a state of detachment from the
social amenities by a conflict
between concentration over
work and temporary states of
distraction over the weather,
which has been truly Satanic at
times. One gale was of such a
velocity that it blew half the
smaller gable off Jane’s [Jane
Lindsay] house and landed it
behind the studio, while tiles
were exploded off the studio-
roof half-a-dozen times.
Joe Stratten [a neighbor and
gardener] came in yesterday
with the news that a tree had
been blown down on old Shippe
[an ex-gardener], who is now in
hospital with two broken legs,
much to Rose’s satisfaction as
a just nemesis for his having
planted our lawns with that evil
South African grass. There’s
something extremely fraying to
the nerves in the incessant roar
of a 60-miles-an-hour gale, and
having read all the readable
matter within reach, I’ve been
getting through the evenings
finishing the rig of the model of
an East Indiaman that I left off
years ago.
Dickens
The Dickens Life [by Una
Pope-Hennessy] is. admirable;
clears up all the suppressed re-
lations of Dickens with women,
but, in one way, leaves him a
more astounding enigma than
ever in his power of self-
hypnotism. Hypnotism itself has
something to do with the whole
enigma, for he practised it him-
self on the home circle, and on
one of his lady friends, to Mrs.
Dickens’s just indignation. A
most amusing episode. But his
power over an audience can
only be attributed to mass
hypnotism.
I’m dawdling at get’ting that
oil-composition down on canvas
—always a job of doubts and
hesitations. Did you find those
two volumes of The Ring and
the Book ? I’m bothered about
their disappearance here. No
one ever enters the studio to
take a book from it, yet I can’t
lay my hands on them.
The problem of Dickens keeps
obsessing my mind. I acquit
him of playing-down to the pub-
lic with his tongue in his cheek.
To me his popularity-mongering
savors of a sort of demoniac
possession possession by the
mob-mind. By the fervor of his
political humanism he gave him-
self over to the lower mob and
its demon rushed in and took
possession. The exasperating
thing about all that blasted
drivel about the nobility of the
poor by Dickens and Hugo and
all the humanists of that era is
that the poor have now got
such a swollen head that they
are worse dictators than the
toughest capitalistic class. Those
nuisances started it and we have
to put up with it. There’s only
one solution to it and that is to
debunk the poor at every
opportunity.
Politics
I wrote to Webb [J. E. Webb,
then editor of The Bulletin]
saying I would do no more local
politics cartoons. From the age
of 20 I’ve been japing at relays
of politicians till the wretched
creatures have no more sub-
stance or reality than astral
spooks, which they probably
are. The monotony of such a
job becomes unbearable.
Browning
I have been taken possession
of by Browning’s “Child Roland
to the Dark Tower Came,” for
apart from the intense fascina-
tion of the poem itself, it lets
one glance behind that cool de-
tached mask by which Browning
kept his contemporaries at a
distance, by his refusal to play
up to the popular conception
of Poet, or to let the world at
1943
HOME-BREAKERS BEWARE!
(“I did not become Prime Minister to preside over the liquidation of the Empire... .The administration of
the British colonies must continue to be the sole responsibility of Great Britain.” — Churchill.)
“They’re all mine, and they’ll stay mine!”
large into the privacy of his
conflict with destiny.
No man who had not gone
through the inferno of depres-
s ion, self-contempt and rage
against the malice of destiny
could have written that poem,
It touches even the final abyss
of conflict—a savage desire for
failure rather than the febrile
gratification of success: —
I hardly tried now to rebuke the
spring
My made > findmg failure in its
T , . „ , .
~J als P oem affirr ™; ;
dld bala . n £ e of miad i n B
* ng wbicb superficial opinion
£ as mistab;en . . complacency,
f ? r , a ° .°P tln H s tic assumption
J hat llfe in Itself 1S a §° od thin §-
It accepts horror of life by fear
at its l ter ? al • thre . at , ! arl u ? U .®“
pense; by its incredible brutali-
ties, and utterly rejects any sub-
terfuge of escape from its attack,
either by Nietzsche’s desperate
device of insanity or Tennyson’s
sneaking behind popular senti-
ment and a parade of finding
the whole thing a pretty and
innocent exercise in the decora-
tive charm of words.
I often wonder if Tennyson
faced Browning’s contempt for
him. I doubt it. He was sunk
too deep in his false mask to
face any reality. Yet he must
have been aware of it. Contacts
made and broken in youth re-
main an unforgettable content
of the min'd.
I can understand Browning
getting out of England. He must
have found the smug refusal of
his generation to face the reality
of passion intolerable. Yet he
lost something by transferring
S o much of the subject-matter of
poetry to an Italian back-
ground. All the same, this much
™ ust be sa ] d for bls selection of
the Renaissance as material
rather than his present-day
aspe ct of life in England. Its
salient effect was of stability and
security. We may slightly envy
those dwellers in the safe earth
of Victorianism, but it never
threw up such tremendous
material as this cataclysmic
eart h we are flying i n today.
j come t 0 t fl e conc l us ion that
unless a man is consciously
aware of his own idiosyncratic
conscience-problem he will never
f ace e i ther life or the ru thless
statement of his concept of it.
He will make concessions ; he
will indulge in innocence. We
have instances of it here,
Browning faced it: —
j had so long suflered in this quest ,
Heard failure prophesied so oft, been
writ
many tunes amon s “The Band.”
The Band; that italicised ex-
clamation of contempt. His
isolation was inevitable, having
that derision for the tamed,
smug art of his generation ; the
Tennysons and* Leightons and
the concessions made by
Dickens and the novelists. If
“Child Roland,” besides reveal-
i ng Browning’s own self-angers
an d despairs and also his ac-
ceptance of them as the test of
endurance, is also an indictment
0 f the moral sterility of his gen-
eration, which petered out in
the enfeebled poetry of the
’nineties, one might take as pro-
phetic of the cataclysm of our
age the lines
, Ti _ thp T ’ T.wwm’s fir-
1 cure this place U °
Calcine its clods and set my prisoners
fr ee.
It is Browning’s use of real-
ism plus the poetic image in
his concept of life that draws
his poetry directly into contact
and inspiration with poetry to-
day, and leaves Tennyson and
all the others maundering in a
flat medieval earth of tapestry
patterns. No wonder minor
poets had to go mad and try
and smash all traditions of
p oetr y to g et awa y f ro m the
smug, popularity-mongering art
of the Victorian era. I see no
evidence elsewhere that contact
with the great tradition of poetry
via Browning has been made,
but I do see clearly that in the
best Australian pbetry the con-
tact is definite, and that is an
intensely pleasing discovery,
Lacking the stimulus of talk
p v j t j th
flectiom 'on Roland”
, • , T , ,
1 , have be “ reading Balf "
d ° e , n times a day sir^. e geßia £
bere > and marvelling each
, at .* e yast vanety of a f°'
c . iat< r d im ages and concepts a
single poetic image may evoke
Jhe mind. Poems like “Child
Roland encompass the whole
mass of an earth in the minute
space of a few verses, and if that
a definition of infinity there
] sn t such a thing. Alter absorb-
a . po f. m 1 f aa ev ® n be ‘
lle Xf tbat as j-? a . f may bar . r
a P roiun duy, u painters in
( Continued on next page)


general were not so much the
besotted slaves of the hand and
eye, and could turn to poetry for
a stimulus to extract the image
of form from its factual pre-
sentation. As it is, the miserable
devils turn to psychoanalytical
textbooks to try and find an
escape from factualism into
imagery, and only succeed in
landing themselves in a patho-
logical butcher’s shop.
Journalism
If that tad you wrote about
wants to .made me with a
photographer lor one of thos
lousy weekly rags like....wi
refused of
that sort P and can’t break my
rule on his account That’s The
official answe? I alwaysgive to
such reauests but the truth is
I°crawf with consdomignommy
at the notion of being served-up
photographically to the sort of
public those lousy rags cater for.
I know one should keep a
balanced sense of humor over
crudities of that sort, but I can-
not conquer the revulsion I teel
at any contact with Australian
daily journalism, or any pro-
duction spawned by it.
r m still turning out some
sma n oils, one of which I think
j s f a i r i y good. The lighthearted
ga i ety Q f t h e Congreve comedies
inspired one of them. Outside
Shaksneare he’s the greatest of
dan and OolLnUh are thin
.
p owys an d Atlantis
I have to take back that re-
mark I made about a lack of
pictorial inspiration in Powys,
After finishing Porius I found
my mind such a conglomerate
o/post-Roman Celtic ladies and
warriors, giants, dwarfs, primi-
tive men, stags, bears, boars and
witch-women that I had to get
rid of it in a watercolor under
the title of “Merlin.”
There is no question about the
power of Powys’s peculiar art,
which evades definition under
any esthetic convention, and
seems to emanate directly from
the p r i mo rdial forces which
genera t e an earth. He’s a Celt,
but there’s nothing of the Irish
Celtic Twilight about him.
Rather than a petering-out of a
racial genesis, he swings back
j n time to its dawn, at that
period when the Celtic mental-
ity brought to the dramatisation
of the human ego by Greek and
Roman art a fierce mystic sense
of cosmic forces in all natural
Sose iree racialworldJ fused.
Celtic art in the past contri-
buted onl myt hs mid legends
and a considerable craftsman-
ship in metal-work to the gen-
eral content of art, but it infused
that spirit which gave man a
mystic union with all nature,
Wordsworth defined it in a
gentle, meditative key, but
Powys releases it with a Satanic
vitality. I believe this release of
spirit to be the true element of
greatness in him.
Have you got his Owen Glen-
dower? If so, I’d like the loan
of it, as I never read it, and feel
like further explorations into
the dark and grimy caverns of
his mind.
I’m getting a lot of pleasure
out of going through the old
[Border] ballads again, after a
long break from them. More
than ever it is apparent that
there must have been one
creative source for the earlier
ballads, for the later ones are
clearly imitative and not in-
spired. I am also convinced that
we had to compress the ballad
time-factor into poetry in this
country, which has now encom-
passed all its major forms.
To the ballad-proper of this
era I’m certain we must add the
best of Kipling’s ballads, which
will read remarkably well a hun-
dred years hence if those grovel-
ling brutes, the scientists, don’t
blow a hole in the earth’s crust
before our culture has time to
function.
Being in a Celtic state of
mind, I’ve just been through a
collection of Celtic myths, and
also a work on Atlantis which
has collected a vast amount of
convincing evidential data on
the time-factors of past cata-
clysms. I haven’t the slightest
doubt that the one which
wrecked the civilisation which
preceded ours was a man-made
cataclysm. There is an uneasy
suspicion to that effect already
perturbing the bad-conscience of
mankind today.
I admit it’s not quite fair to
Robert Frost to try and assimi-
late the mild, bucolic flavor of
his poetry after a violent diet of
the above sort of reading. There
is a genuine charm in his stuff,
but so much of it is written in
that modulated minor key that
the effect is rather monotonous.
It conveys the idiom of a man
speaking in a low-pitched tone
of voice without any emotional
inflection. At least, that’s my
present impression. I’ll read
them again later when in a more
fitting state of mind.
James Gould Cozzens
I read through Guard of
Honor again to analyse the con-
structive principle which holds
it together and am more than
ever impressed by the way the
thread of continuity winds
through such a mass of seem-
ingly disconnected matter and
makes a unity of it. Past time-
factors are woven into the
present moment with amazing
subtlety. In these difficulties
Cozzens comes closest to Con-
rad. Close to him also in that
balanced detachment from senti-
ment which allows him to see all
round a human complexity. In
the Browning manner. There is
something rather maddening in
this matter of perfection in any
art, which the greatest in the
arts lack. Think of the slap-
dash methods of Dickens, Scott,
Fielding, Cervantes, Balzac
compared to Conrad at his
best. I don’t think I’m over-
rating Cozzens in placing him in
the Conrad class. Already the
mass of his work has the weight
of a major expression in prose,
and his understanding of human
conflict under the complexity of
modern life is profound.
Have read Turgenev’s Virgin
Soil. Extremely disappointing.
A study of revolutionaries, who
are always mechanised creatures.
In the first chapter one is pre-
sented with a group of doomed
people. Inevitability is a first
essential of the novel, but a
writer who tells the reader what
must happen in the first chapter
flattens out all interest.
Paint and Prose
Herewith the Munnings re-
view. I was glad of an excuse
to take time off writing it. I
have been a bit over-driven by
the urge to experiment with a
variation in the use of impasto
in oils, which I have been exer-
cising on those girls’ heads. I
wish I could be sure the results
justified the amount of concen-
tration and labor expended on
them, which is very tiring.
That Fountain story in last
week’s Bulletin is altogether
admirable. I recall the number
of variations he made on the
subject and psychology of Ossie,
but this final one is the best of
all. This is the test of a capacity
to handle a difficult theme from
various angles which proves
Fountain to be a writer of high
quality. If we only had him
functioning with the same
fecundity as Brian .James, we
could claim to have two writers
of prose of unquestionable
ability, the one Lawsonian and
the other Conradian.
William Hart-Smith
Enclosed a note to Hart-
Smith, which conveys my re-
action to his poems [Christopher
Columbus ], which are every-
thing you claimed for them.
They are, without question, a
genuine contribution to poetry
here. I would send it myself,
but I didn’t know whether he’s
(Continued on page 30)
THE PRODIALS
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
1905
P\Rfc COIfSG ©tsCKTO THe HUSKS KGKIN, KMD GL.RO
If RETURN Fsße VJe
1 A / W/e Psßfc GOING BRCK TO THE, SWINfc ONCS MORE.
k am/ —to THe swirse, a;no to liberty.
m ' we HRve ufeFT BeniPHD vs wtreD CAuF
AND A LPKTMUY B&fVST IS nfe
rv \)e we-Rfe vouMcerP. sons who had seers the wofm-d,
W AND TNfc WORUD WAS AND WIDE.
We DRIFTeD E.RCR KS> BROVAfcTN WRECKS
ON THE BACKWASH OF THt TlDfc ,
AND frKCH HAD A GUOZIISG 1.1 fc TO
reuu.iysD 6kch hkd a
TRWfc TO HIDE- .
rf»M£M WONG fRNO CRE.Y CKM6 TM6 CRAWLING
1 YfePsRS OF - RfeSPeCT(KB!LITy,
yOMfetN we WORfc OUR TKUX» GURZ6D HKT6 ll s *
CHURCH FOR PsUU THfc WOKGD TO s££.
CxrvD Tl-lfc CfeMT We DROPPeD IN THfr PERSONS
Puwre HWE> J\ MOUOW NOTfe WHO DRtfe .
fRR THEY TOOK US BACK KND THEY CAVfc US
* MEAT, KND THfcVSUeW THfc TASTELESS VfcN-
CCit\ THfc OX-TAIL SOUP IS A GRUESOME THING
k and so is THfc boiled ox-nee-UK
CwMD IN TttClß JOY THEY GAVE US COW-WE
MAD COW FOR EVERY MEN. .
•THfc FEAST WAS SPREAD IN OURFATHERS
fcKCtl HKD VEAL ENOUGH FOR THREE *
&, and we tried to Revet. like.
y KNRLS AND TO MOWU WITH THE
- olden cuee
| US we SOLEMNLY PASSED FROM HAND TO
! HAND THE BIG DRAB "POT OF TEA.
THE GIRLS Wfc KNEW IN THE OLD BAD
DAYS HELD THfc SOULS OF MfcN
IPH TMRALU .
THEIR EYfcS WERE BRIGHT, AND .
THEIR UPS Wfcßfc RED, AND GRAC-
-lOUS WERE THEY, AND TALL.
"i THfc ONES WHO HAVE CALWED
s OF LATE HUNG BROWN POKE
BONNETS ON THE WALL!
S THEY WERE CHEERY SINNfrRS, j
f THfc MfcN Wfc HfHfeW IN THfc
DAYS THAT USED TO Be V
THfc MEN Wfe KNOW TO-DPW ARfc
* LONG,GRUNT STREAKS
OF MISERY
NT NO THfclß MONKEY BEARDS HANG
DOWN LIKE MOSS FESTOONED
ON AN OLD DEAD TREE,
wjfc HA/E LEFT THfc HIDE OF THE FATTED
C.AUF TO DRY UPON A FfcNCE •,
VIE LEFT HIS BONES TO BLEACH UPON
' ** A HILU AND GAT US HENCE-;
AND WE LEAPED UPON THE CUAZED
TOP HATS THAT WE BOUGItT
AT GREAT EXPENSE.
VJE ARE GOING BACK TO THE SWINE WGRINt
W HIS CURLY TALE WE SEE
C HOW UP AGAINST THE SETTINC. SUN,
“u GREETING TO YOU AND ME ,
STu TK* HUSKS «T»« W
“ TO-NIGHT WHtßfc AUU THE
WORLD IS FREE.
and pwav at home the Euder Sons WILU
WIND THE CLOCK AT TEN ,
PUT THE CAT OUT CARGEULUY, AND
LOCK THE DOOR , _
AND THEN <
CO OFF RESPECTABLY =
TO BED LIKE SOBER;
MINDfcD MEN.
J-Edmond.


DECEMBER 23, 1936
THE FIRST STONE
1939
VERY STRANGE BEDFELLOWS
1943
TREASURY ISLAND IDYLL
"Stow it away, mates —here comes the old buzzard!”
1943
OUR TARZAN—UP A TREE AGAIN
“Mr. Edgar Rice Burroughs, author of ‘Tarzan of the Apes,’ arrived in
Sydney when Mr. Lang was thundering against militia service in the
South-West Pacific.”


1904
A DOG-STORY WITHOUT WORDS
, .
here or in N.Z., or what his
personal address is.
Of course, he follows the
present tradition in narrative-
verse here by taking a single
figure, which you rightly com-
plain of as limiting the drama
of conflict, but it may be a pre-
liminary exercise in the metier
of narrative poetry, and pre-
sently one of the poets will
drop to the necessity of telling
a dramatic story in verse, and
the others will follow. But it
really is startling to see young
poets like Webb and Hart-Smith
and. Judith Wright stepping
straight into the command of a
sophisticated idiom in poetry,
when only yesterday poetry
here, save for McCrae, was
given over to the simple
balladists.
I’m doing nothing but write
that novel at present, which I
can’t call work, because I like
doing it. But the days are so
dark and short and cold that I
have a valid excuse for leaving
pictures alone at present. I’ve
no urge towards them, anyway.
The seasons have a lot to do
with imagery in art.
Mencken
I got great pleasure out of
the Mencken biography [The
Sage of Baltimore, by William
Manchester]. Next to Boswell,
I think it the finest biography
I’ve read. Mencken is really
presented life-size, from every
aspect, and with every idio-
syncrasy of personality observed
and understood.
My admiratidn and affection
for Mencken is greatly exalted
by it. I’ve always considered
him the most outstanding figure
of my generation; outstanding
as a personality and because he
was gifted with clarity of mind
which views mankind with com-
plete detachment from any
traditional sentiment over its
motives and antics. The effect
is that of a visitor from another
planet arriving to inspect a
peculiar human genus, and see-
ing it with the clarity of an
inspired understanding.
I can only call to mind two
other great minds who had the
same capacity to view mankind
without illusion: Montaigne
and Nietzsche. Montaigne’s out-
look was that of the detached
observer; cool, unimpassioned,
adding self-revelation to the
data which exposed mankind.
Nietzsche, once he had written
Zarathustra and the Antichrist,
found the crude spectacle of
man insupportable, and fled
from contact with it. In the
end, he fell into the fatal error
of propaganding theories for
controlling the bedlamite in-
consequence of human life and
escaped into mental isolation. I
suspect that his mental collapse
was self-inflicted.
Mencken’s attitude I admire
most of all. He went right down
into the mud with mankind and
joined battle with a rapier in
one hand and a brickbat in the
other. He laughed at the whole
lunatic spectacle and derided
any assumption that he wanted
it altered or bettered or ration-
alised. By an inspired percep-
tion, he saw that it was designed
to be precisely the thing it is: a
spectacle: the subject-matter of
art, but, in itself, a thing of no
value or consequence. Its one
valid reason for existence was
that it gave a fixed point from
which the freed individual could
detach himself from the mob.
As against his mockery and
derision for mankind at large,
he put his affirmation on all that
was great in art. With his death,
intellectual America is just be-
ginning to realise what a stu-
pendous job he did to give it
space in which to develop.
I have just got [FitzGerald’s]
Between Two Tides and am
reading it with great pleasure,
which I hope will be sustained.
There is a fine dignity and
directness of thought ih the sec-
tion I have read, which appeals
greatly to me.
Marryat
Bring Xenophon if possible.
It’s a work I’ve always had an
urge to read, but have never yet
come by a copy. I observe it’s
in Everyman.
I ticked-off a list of Every-
man’s just now and found only
two works that I haven’t read,
Xenophon and Marco Polo.
The latter I must get. If you
see it in a bookshop, get it for
me.
One of the afflictions of my
age is that there are not many
books left that should be read.
At present I have been thrown
back on Scott and Marryat. I
have an affection for Marryat
which survives my youth. He
is so pleasingly non-moral. His
heroes are so full of innocent
scoundrelism, and his sea-writ-
ing is always admirable. He sur-
vives, queerly enough, by never
having taken himself seriously
as a writer, which allows him
to mix-up arrant melodrama
with direct realism, and the real-
ism is so good that one accepts
the melodrama with tolerance.
Scott, after all, does very much
the same thing.
I think I’ll be able to let
Schlunke [The Bulletin story-
writer] have a decent small
painting. You can select one
when you come up.
Bush Ballads
I’m glad my memory did not
deceive me over that Lawson
verse of “The Shearer’s Dream,”
though it must be 40 years since
I read it. Just as well to have
Lawson represented, but all his
other ballads are sentimental
mush, and definitely un-Austra-
lian. The one you mentioned
on the ’phone [Alexander Mont-
gomery’s “A Curious Remini-
scence”] sounds particularly sar-
donic, Satanic and inspired by
the national daemon. I believe
the publication of this [the
Australian Bush Ballads antho-
logy which Angus and Robert-
son are to publish later this
year] will do a lot of good, if
it chances to generate an urge to
read verse in a fair section of
the public. It may dissipate a
suspicion of highbrow obscur-
antism if it is well sponsored.
I don’t think the ballad in its
early form should come back.
It would be only an intellectual
exercise if it did. But I do hope
the tale in verse will be experi-
mented with. I suppose, since
Tennyson, Masefield is the only
tale-teller in verse who was
widely read. And tale-telling is
as badly needed in the novel, 1
too. I’ve just read again The
Wrecker [by R. L. Stevenson]
and it made me realise how
completely the suspense motive
as action has vanished from the
modern novel, where that
motive is transferred to states
of mind. And who the hell
cares for the spiritual conflicts
of the intelligentsia?
I haven’t got back to work
yet! A cold always has the
effect of violently dislocating the
state of mind it arrives on,
which I therefore conclude re-
quired to be dislocated. I don’t
like that last series of oils.
They are academic exercises. I
shall have to try a new point of
attack or chuck that medium.
Turgenev
I’ve had extreme pleasure out
of Turgenev’s Sportsman’s Note
Book. His power to visualise
landscape in words goes, further
than anything I know of in
prose; there is a crystal clarity
of vision in his style, so lucid
and unstressed.
And he is the only writer
(Continued on page 32)


1943
TO PAPUA, VIA BRISBANE LINE
It (“Mr. Ward has been appointed Minister of External Territories.”)
Now all boy look along me-fella ! Me strong fella marster too much !”
1933
A ONCE-DOCILE ANIMAL OBJECTS
“Have a heart, Dig, have a heart! You can’t ride me to prosperity
again with this load up. More likely to break me back.”
1933
ABOU BEN LYONS AWAKES FROM A SWEET
DREAM OF PEACE
“Foes ; and I lack weapons. I put my faith in speech, not in shield
and spear. But stay —my venerable father is to lend me a bow and
certain arrows.”
1941
POSTSCRIPT TO THE [ SYDNEY] SHOW


1919
THE ELOPEMENT
about Russia and the Russians,
save Conrad, who makes Rus-
sian character intelligible to
me. The reason seems to me to
be due to his outlook on it;
intimate, yet detached. He does
not, like all other Russian
writers, sink his own personality
in the emotional complexities of
the people he writes about. And
it is quite clear that the dis-
tracted muddle all Russians get
into when they try to intellec-
tualise a concept of life and
their own peculiar psychology
amuses him. He sees it as
humor, as evidenced in that
story wherein a very typical
Russian sets out to explain him-
self to Turgenev, and gets more
confused and incoherent the
more he tries to elucidate the
complexities of his being.
Education seems to have a
disastrous effect on the Russian
mentality. The Russian peas-
ants, as presented by Turgenev,
are the eternal peasants of all
nationalities, save for certain
variations in custom and
climate. But the intellectuals
seem to me always on the
borderline of a species of
lunacy, if one accepts as a
standard of human sanity the
Greeks, Montaigne, Shakspeare,
Goethe and all other higher out-
looks on life which have
analysed and understood the
gamut of human aspiration and
passion. The Russian mentality
remains outside that standard,
wandering in an intellectual
limbo, which explains why it is
so ready to snatch at any politi-
cal credo to try and stabilise
itself in space.
Robert D. Fitz Gerald
Fitz sent me his new book of
poems [This Night’s Orbit], and
of course I now find them infin-
itely better in a proper format
than when read in the packed
muddle of news-type. I didn’t
care much for “Heemskerck
Shoals” when I first read it, but
now I like it very much. There
are one or two very lovely
shorter poems, but the quality
of the book that pleases me in
general terms is that it is the
production of a highly-civilised
mind. That, I think, is Fitz’s
peculiar contribution to Aus-
tralian poetry.
Douglas and Lawrence
I’ve been reading Old Cala-
bria and Sea and Sardinia side-
by-side, and what a contrast!
Douglas so sane, so well-
balanced, so accomplished in the
art of living, as much at ease
with an enlightened scholar as
with a peasant by the roadside,
interested in everything, from a
rare bird or plant to the site of
an ancient city, gathering folk-
lore from old women or from
mouldy MSS. hidden away in
monkish libraries —in short, a
man of Montaigne’s genera —
while Lawrence is his precise
opposite, a creature of tortured
nerves, loathing mankind, view-
ing life with equal fascination
and horror, viewing it with
spectacles which magnify its
minutiae till he sees every crudity
with disgust, very much as
Gulliver viewed the breasts of
Brobdingnagian ladies when
they set him astride of their
nipples.
To be sure, those spectacles
gave him an amazing clarifica-
tion of vision when defining the
externals of things about him,
but they corrupted his sense for
values. He could not accept life
as a spectacle from which we
extract the substance of art as
well as the substance of the ego.
He wanted it to be something
else, like all who are infected by
evangelism. As he couldn’t
alter it he tried to run away
from it. Those restless flittings
of his about the earth’s crust
were driven by fear, fear of
what he calls “the hemmed-in
life —the horror of human ten-
sion, the absolute insanity of
machine persistence.”
I don’t wonder that, to
Douglas, Lawrence was a
peevish, treacherous, whining
little runt. No doubt Lawrence
was a sick man, but the endur-
ance-test of sickness is that one
must not let it taint a concept of
life. One feels the sick man
through everything Lawrence
wrote, and that is the reason I
can’t away with him, in spite of
his qualities as a writer of fine
prose. I admit that pain must
be the mechanism which sensi-
tises us to spectacle of life.
Without it, no great art would
ever have been created. But
where the artist allows it to in-
fect his mental outlook, he
corrupts the quality of his art.
Douglas was given splendid
health, and possibly his sane and
tolerant outlook had a good deal
to do with a sound body. All
the same, he saw life with even
more clarity than Lawrence, and
never allowed its brutalities and
imbecilities to throw him off his
balance. He had the divine gift
of humor, and Lawrence did not
have a spark of it. Yet that very
sanity and tolerance in Doug-
las debarred him from that
emotional intensity without
which no great art is created.
Possibly creation in such
terms as the work of Conrad, or
even Lawrence, was not his job.
Personally, I’m glad it wasn’t,
for his writings have been an
eternal pleasure to me. In them
I respond to the type of mind
I would most have liked to
in the flesh.
Besides, I owe him a big per-
sonal debt. During the ’twen-
ties, when those imbecile attacks
on my work were at their
worst, and one must exist as
best one can on a diet of dis-
gust for having inflicted such
a primitive limbo on oneself,
Douglas’s outlook, his thought,
his balanced humor, were a
great relief to me. Here at last
was one gay and sane mind in
this dismal Bedlam, .......
I was delighted to read again
that chapter in Old Calabria on
Milton, which I had strangely
forgotten. Douglas has pro-
duced irrefutable evidence that
Milton stole nearly all Paradise
Lost from a play on the same
theme by an Italian poet named
Salandra, not to mention many
other thefts from Ariosto and
half-a-dozen other p0et5......
I read the Story of Everest
[by W. H. Murray] at a sitting.
Heroic man! I think the reason
that we give our devotion to the
hero as distinct from the heroic
mass in war is that he faces
danger alone. What a horrifying
test those Everest mountaineers
faced. Not only an imminent
death, but physical stress of the
most devastating nature. And
that splendid fellow Mallory
found something inspiring in the
thought that the ascent of
Everest could not be attained.
A ruthlessly virgin mountain.
They have passion, those moun-
taineers. One might call it a
creative passion. At least they
create an image of indomitable
man. t
I can’t help thinking that the
Abominable Snowman must be
some survival of some semi-
human primitive creature. He
has his big-toe in the same place
as the human toe. By that one
must assume that his thumb is
also in the right place. What a
fantasy out of time and space
to think of such a creature exist-
ing today. And the only place
he could have gone on existing
is such a one as the Himalaya
mountains, inaccessible to
modern man. I wish the book
had touched on what food the
creature lived on.
I’m still idling, which ac-
counts for this letter, having got
my typewriter back. I don’t
know what else to do if I didn’t
scribble between reading. I de-
tect myself secreting peevish
rebellions about being driven
back to work; a proletarian
urge to go on strike. But that
leaves me presented with a
nemesis in boredom. I heartily
endorse Douglas’s dictum that
leisure is an essential content of
a civilised existence, but to in-
dulge it one must have a per-
fect digestion, a sound body,
and a capacity for pedestrian
exercise, so that one might stroll
about selected areas of the
earth’s crust, observing and
meditating over the spectacle of
humanity, and, equally at
leisure, write a book about the
result of one’s garnered store of
meditations and observations.
Of all the sorts of life that may
be lived, Douglas undoubtedly
selected the best.


Turning-point of History
Sydney, Australia, 1880
By M. H. ELLIS
THE BULLETIN was
founded at a point in his-
tory when the last vestiges
of old Australia were
passing. There were still a few
men and women alive who had
been living when Governor
Phillip landed in 1788. There
were a ' great many who
remembered the time when Aus-
tralia, as a continental country,
was bounded by the Bathurst
settlement in the west and the
Nepean in the south.
Any man over 61 had lived
in a day when it was a criminal
offence to cross the Nepean into
the Cowpastures without a pass-
port. There were plenty who
had known all the great
explorers Hume, who had
crossed the mountains as far as
Marulan in 1814, was dead only
seven years.
William Macarthur was still
alive. He had been born in
Governor Hunter’s day; had
travelled home with his father
at the end of March, 1809 ; had
been captured by one of
"Napoleon’s vedettes during the
Hundred Days. With his brother
James, he had managed the
Camden Park Estate as early as
1818. He had seen in his life-
time the whole of the history of
commercial wool in Australia
from-its incipience till it had
reached a point when there were
65,000,000 sheep in the con-
tinent. And he had seen and
spoken to every Governor of
Australia except Phillip, and
had known every historical
character who had had any part
in the development of the
colony from its beginning.
William Macquarie Cowper,
Dean of Sydney, who had been
born in Macquarie-place when
there was still a blacks’-camp
there occasionally, had still
more than 20 years of life ahead
of him, and old Captain
Dumaresq, who had come to
Australia in Governor Bris-
bane’s day, when the population
of the mainland was about
30,000, had 24 years to go.
The year 1880 marked a line
between the old and the new in
more ways than one. It repre-
sented, in time, the crest of a
great wave of change, not
unlike, in some ways, that which
has taken place in the last
generation.
Jiist 29 years earlier there had
been the discovery of gold at
Ophir; and since then the earth
had been pouring out primary
riches to an extent never before
known in any continent outside
America.
The discoveries of goldfields
came one after another—the
N. S. Wales western ’fields; the
Victorian ’fields; Canoona,
Gympie, the Palmer, Charters
Towers. The rushes in the west
and centre of Australia were
coming on. Prospectors had
pushed out everywhere, gold-
hunting, and in their wake had
followed the cattle, and in the
wake of the cattle the sheep.
The wealth from the primary
industries had poured into the
limited number of great ports
and blown them up like bal-
loons. The development of
steam seaborne trade had made
it possible for the whole world
to join in the Australian rushes,
to fill the vacuums in the pas-
toral industry caused by the
defection of farm- and shepherd-
labor to the goldfields and to
the towns serving the miners and
the expanding sheep-industry.
The boom and expansion had
been all the more amazing and
the more seemingly unreal be-
cause it had been born out of
the “hungry ’forties,” a period
of drought, bushfire and bank-
ruptcy which, towards its end,
seemed likely to destroy the
country unless conditions
changed rapidly. Change rapidly
they did, with a vengeance.
The real early development
had begun in 1821, when Aus-
tralian wool proved its quality
at the sale at Garraway’s
Coffee House on August 17, the
best Macarthur bale selling to
the Royal factory at 10s. 4d. a
pound. Between 1819 and 1821
commercial imports increased
from £9OOO in value to £141,000.
By 1825, when the population
had reached 33,500-odd, the im-
ports had soared to £300,000,
and 1,000,0001 b. of wool was
exported.
By 1830 the population had
increased to 46,300. The exports,
following a bad drought, still
stood at £141,000. Ten years
later, in 1841, the population
had increased more than five-
fold, to just on 250,000, of
which all but 35,000 were in
N. S. Wales and Tasmania. The
imports were over £4,000,000;
the exports about £2,000,000.
In the next decade, however,
N. S. Wales added only 49,000
people; Tasmania only 12,000.
The rest of the 200,000 increase
was accounted for by the
development of Victoria and
South Australia, with a few
thousand in Western Australia.
Imports were almost at the same
figure as in 1841 ; but the
exports had doubled in value,
thanks to one year’s yield of
the goldfields, plus an expan-
sion in sheep-numbers, the
“hungry” years notwithstand-
ing.
And then the rush began. The
population doubled in five years.
It nearly trebled, passing the
million-and-a-quarter mark, in
ten. It multiplied sixfold in
thirty. In 1881, the year after
The Bulletin was born, the
population reached 2,800,000.
The wealth and spending-power
of the colonies had developed
in a staggering way. Its export'
had expanded tenfold in the
decade—and it knew how to
get rid of its earnings: its im-
ports had increased thirteenfold,
to £52,750,000. Its shipping was
represented by 16,700 vessels
inwards and outwards in 1881.
There had been no setbacks save
for a limited depression at the
beginning of the ’seventies.
Australia, in fact, was a vast
melting-pot. Everything was
unsettled and unfinished. The
population was new. The bulk
of it had been born outside the
continent. Its leaders, too, were
new, and even the youngest of
them had been born outside the
country. Many are surprised to-
day to find that George Reid
(whose portrait, very neatly and
politely done, appeared in»the
first year’s file of The Bulletin)
was a Scot by birth; that
Parkes was an Englishman.
The great bulk of the inhabi-
tants lived in humpies, bark
huts and tents, or under the sky.
Life was near to the ground,
unstable, ephemeral. A large
proportion of the inhabitants
lived between goldfield and
goldfield, between station and
station, between port and port.
The new cities, with their new
wharves, new commercial build-
ings, new Parliament Houses,
new churches and cathedrals,
were still immature, and bright
under their first coat of paint.
Queensland, which had set up
in business with a population of
25,000 and 7£d. in the Treasury,
had .just reached the age of 21
at the end of 1880, and had
nearly as many people as New
South Wales—Bl years old—had
boasted when the North was
sliced off.
Also, Australia was full of
spending-money, as that com-
modity went in those days, and
consequently full of a new-born
cussedness and independence.
There were two classes in pro-
cess of revolt and telling every-
body all round that if he didn’t
like it he could lump it. This
was true almost everywhere
except on the coalfields, where
there was sad depression.
Every customer complained
loudly of the independence of
the shopkeeper, who could sell
every pin he could stick on the
shelves and didn’t worry about
being polite or conciliatory. And
every employer of labor com-
plained about the sauciness of
the workers, who, to . get a job,
it seemed, merely had to go out
into the street and whistle to be
mobbed by eager businessmen.
Then there were the gold-
miners who had been successful,
and who were enjoying the
luxury of being able to throw
off all inhibitions and tell every-
body to like it or do the other
thing. And there were the float-
ing mobs of unsuccessful adven-
turers who had become cynical,
after failure in many countries
and many local fields, and who
were numerous enough to be
vocal—nobody being able to
stop them, anyhow, or earing
very much whether they were
stopped or not.
No matter how downtrodden,
they all seemed somehow to be
able to buy bottles of ink. From
an earlier day there had
been a demand for publicists,
political and otherwise in
purpose, lyrical and otherwise
in technique, ranging from
such as Henry Kendall and
Adam Lindsay Gordon, who
did their advertising in verse,
along to George Reid, author of
a highly statistical essay on
N. S. Wales.
Every statistician and Govern-
ment propagandist was eager to
explain to the world that the
value of Australasian trade per
head was the highest in the world
—exports £l7 6s. and imports
£l9 15s. Bd., against corres-
ponding figures for the United
Kingdom of £7 17s. lOd. and
£ll 12s. 6d., and for the Ger-
man Empire of £3 6s. 7d. and
£5 Bs. lOd.
Existence, generally speaking,
was so satisfactory, according to
these advertisers of the colonies,
that there was nothing to com-
plain about except political con-
ditions. But even the least
informed knew that in the
Sydney and New South Wales
of 1880 there was plenty that
was not so rosy hidden behind
the dignified facade presented
by the daily press and public
institutions.
The New South Wales of the
time was a sprawling and dis-
jointed affair —a large expanse
of countryside, six times the size
of England and Wales, with a
number of one-horse townships
spread around it, most of them
consisting of a dusty street or
two, a modicum of iron roofs
shimmering in the sun, and with
two-story pubs on the comers.
As one fraveller recorded, there
was “not even a horse-trough”
in most of them, much less
water and sewerage.
Communication between them
was by horse, buggy, Cobb &
Co., wagonette, sulky or on
foot, according to wealth, cir-
cumstances and hurry. The
State, in 1880, owned only 800
miles of railway. On the long
roads of the sheep-country and
in the coastal centres of the
timber - belt bullock - wagons
plied. The only towns in which
there was real life were, the
increasingly scarce ones where
prospectors were coming in and
Chinamen were still being
chased out.
The capital itself, underneath
its fancy-waistcoat of platitude
and pretence to culture, was a
bubbling pot of characters who
would have set both Charles
Dickens and Bret Harte up for
life. It combined, with remark-
able social adroitness, the social
atmospheres of Surbiton and
Dead Man’s Gulch, flavored
with a slight aroma of Lime-
house and sound-effects from
Connemara.
Its habits were to match,
though compartmentised. It
was possible to take tea with a
lord on one side of Circular
Quay, to buy opium on the
other, and be knifed in between.
o Continued on next page)
1906
A TRIO WE WALK ALONG THE GAS-LIT STREET IN A DREADFUL
ROW, WE THREE;
THE WOMAN I WAS AND THE WOMAN I AM. AND THE
WOMAN I'LL ONE DAY BE.


The local Chinese-quarter
was divided from the local
Buckingham Palace by a forest
of masts and sailors’-dens
around the Quay and the com-
missariat stores. Canton glared
at Mayfair across the water-
penetrated valley. The morgue
and the Sailors’ Mission were
strategically placed close to-
gether and adjacent to The
Rocks.
Spilling out to the south of
this vale in which Australia had
been founded, the flag raised
and the first glass of port
drunk in January, 1788, was
the remainder of the “city,”
in area some 3| miles by 3
miles according to the best
authorities, who were very exact
in their measurements.
It began on Dawes Point
(ironically named after one of
the most holy military officers
who had graced New South
Wales and adjoining an area
where the gentry would
knife you for twopence), and
proceeded via Chinatown and
bullock-track streets to the
dilapidated market-house of
Green way and the Town
Hall being erected on the
site of an old graveyard. Next
door already stood St. Andrews
Cathedral, more beautiful than
now, because it was not
hemmed-in and had scale com-
pared with adjacent and
surrounding buildings.
Beyond was Brickfield Hill,
where Anthony Horderns’ has
long flourished, and the rail-
way-station out at Redfern, and
outside that again wastes and
swamps, with a scattered popu-
lation which petered-out in
Waterloo, which, about the
period of The Bulletin’s birth,
provided a case or so of leprosy.
Between the holy sunrise
calm and the stately mansions
of Darlinghurst and the “city”
lay Woolloomooloo, as yet not
in its prime, and the Parlia-
mentary region of Macquarie-
street, full of top-hats and
whiskers, Henry Parkes and John
Robertson, who was competing,
with .his Land Bill, for attention
against the Wantabadgery bush-
rangers in the month of the
Archibald - Haynes announce-
ment of The Bulletin’s arrival.
In the teeming waist of the
1907
EQUIPPED
BUNG: “Hey, Dave ! Ye’ve left yer whip behind
DAVE (too lazy to walk back): “That’s all right, Bill. I’ll call f'r't
cornin’ back. I got me langwidge.”
city, a bustling forum of pubs,
chop-houses, coffee-palaces and
the great business, commercial
and financial institutions,
formed the hub of the Austra-
lasian antipodes. Rows of han-
soms lined Bridge-street and
other streets. The place looked
rather like a cleaner London in
miniature, and had an air alto-
gether out of keeping with the
fact that, including its wide-
flung suburbs, it was only the
size of modern Newcastle.
It held fewer than 190''000
people, of whom over 98,000
lived in the 91 square miles of
the city proper, their vigor and
combativeness sometimes mak-
ing them sound like 900,000. It
was a paradise for cartoonists,
an. Elysium for poets —Gilbey’s
advertised champagnes at from
60s. to 87s. a dozen; whiskies
of all brands, Scotch and Irish,
from 425, to 48s. a dozen —yes,
a dozen.
It was bright of an evening,
lighted by the Australian Gas
Light Company, under contract,
at the rate of £7 2s. 6d. a lamp.
It was colorful —the parade of
the demi-monde between pubs
up till 11-o’clock at night, and of
all the ladies and gentlemen who
conveyed liquor during pro-
hibited hours (and got them-
selves fined 2s. 6d. or 24 hours,
and advertised by name next
morning in the “S. M. Herald”),
was without parallel in any
white city in the world, so sailors
declared.
It was rich. The Bank of
New South Wales had a million
of capital, a head-office and no
fewer than three Sydney
branches —in Bathurst-street, in
Parramatta-road and in William-
street.
It had theatres ad lib., with
Alfred Dampier, J. C. William-
son, Maggie Moore already
famous.
It had the Grand Exhibition
in a building in the Botanical
Gardens covering 300,000 square
feet and boasting the sixth-
largest dome in the world —
almost a tie with St. Sophia in
Constantinople, according to the
daily papers, which rarely de-
voted less than four columns of
solid type to its beauty and
versatility of attraction each
morning round the turn of the
summer of 1879-1880. The
“S. M. Herald” was able to note
that its attendances, as many as
24,000 a day, were not affected
by the holding of the New Year’s
Day races at Randwick under
the auspices of the A.J.C., which
had headquarters at Tattersall’s
Hotel in Pitt-street.
Furthermore, Sydney was
undoubtedly healthy. It was
clear from the advertisements of
the A.M.P., with its “£2,600,000
of accumulated funds,” and the
Mutual Life, “the first to free
insurance from restrictions,”
that that type of business was
at the time hard to come by.
George Robertson, bookseller,
Stedman’s Confectionary,
Schweppes’ (from Berners-street,
London), the Royal and other
ancient insurance companies
from London, the C.S.R. (estab-
lished in 1855, and having a
hundredth birthday this year),
the Sydney Meat Preserving
Company, all were already
flourishing in 1880. They
were, geographically, separated
from the region in which
Farmer and Co. operated their
“new cash system,” under which
you could actually buy goods
by putting hard cash down
instead of on long credit in the
ancient West End London
manner.
Some of the retail businesses
were on the same sites as now.
The house of G. H. . Smith,
hatter, of 316 George-street, is
in 1955 in the same place where
it displayed its belltoppers and
“every description of silk, felt
and cloth hats” in 1880.
The A.M.P. was bn its new
site in Pitt-street. The Bank of
N. S. Wales and the Com-
mercial of Sydney stood where
they stand today opposite the
end of Martin-place (though
then there was no Martin-place).
The G.P.O. was being built
opposite the store of David
Jones.
The “Daily Telegraph,” a
newly-come journal, operated in
Barrack-street near the Savings
Bank (all George-street from
Jamison - street to Barrack-
street, incidentally, was not more
than 30 years old, and before
that period had been masked by
the old Barrack wall).
The “Evening News” bunked
down with the “Town and
Country Journal” in Market-
street, where the State Theatre
now is.
The “S. M. Herald” issued
from a building
which was des-
cribed in 1879
as a “majestic
and handsome
stone erection in
the Italian style
of architecture”
(its later general-
manager, the
late W. G. Con-
1e y , described
the building to
the writer of this
article about
1924 as begin-
ning to look like
an “abandoned
Botany biscuit-
factory”).
The 1880
“S.M.H.” ran
to eight or 12
pages of solid
print, its front-page covered with
advertising. Mainly clubmen
were its supporters in Sydney—
those who frequented the Aus-
tralian, Union, Reform, Civil
Service, Brunswick, Volunteer
and the rest. It reported in detail
the meetings at Woollahra and
Paddington to agitate for the
extension of tramways to those
distant parts. It chronicled the
arrival of the Trafalgar “with
1900 British and German singing
birds,” and once a month it gave
most of its second page to
“arrival of mails via Suez,” with
all the London news only 43 days
old.
There were normally 36 lines
or so in “S.M.H.” of displayed
“Latest Intelligence (By Electric
Telegraph) Our Special Tele-
grams” from Europe, including,
say, six lines about the French
political Crisis, three about the
release of the Tichborne
1903
THE LAST TRAM
Newsvendor (pushing the sale of the balance of his
stock recklessly) : “ Ere ye are ; latest Noose ; Peru been
an’ declared war agin’ Greece; King Edward ’it the
Hamerican Ambassador in the eye; international con-
glomerations expected at any moment; Lord ’Opetoun
burnt to the ground, an’ drowned, an’ run away with a
ballet girl; ’orror in Redfern; ’orror in Botany ; ’orror
in Balmain” (desperately, as the tram begins to move);
appallin’ ’orror in Russia an’ Germany an’ everyw’ere
else.” (Tram goes.) “I expect half o’ you can’t read,
an’ the rest o’ you ain’t got a penny.”
Claimant. There were country
telegrams, and a report of the
Sydney Bus Company’s lottery,
in which it was “regretted that
30,000 passengers had lost their
chances” of winning up to £2O
“by not tearing off the butts of
their tickets and preserving
them.”
News, too, of such things as
the horse-market (a forgotten
facility), the sales of prime large
cattle at up to £5 a head, and
sheep-sales with heavy-fats at
6s. 9d. And there were B; ichard-
son and Wrench’s and Hardie
and Gorman’s propertyJsales—
the leasehold of the Evening Star
Hotel, cr. Elizabeth- and Cooper-
street, £550; a hundred-acre
farm on the Cowpasture-road,
£412; allotments on the River-
side Estate, Marrickville, £10;
50ft. allotments in the “central
township, North Shore” at 10s.
and 11s. a foot.
In the week The Bulletin
first saw the light, its ancient
and sedate contemporary
reported:
Yesterday afternoon Mr. H. Cope-
land, M.L.A., was found lying on the
pavement outside Pfahlert’s Hotel by
Constable Clarke, and was taken to
the Infirmary, where it was found that
he had sustained a fracture of the right
ankle. It is supposed that he stumbled
at the top and fell to the bottom with
the result stated.
What modern newspaper
could have meted out better
justice to the honorable member
with such nice economy of
space? No heading, no excite-
ment, no bold-face; but, as vivid
as you like, a little glimpse
through the window of time into
the innermost recesses of
Sydney’s life 75 years ago.
And how fortunate the hapless
member must have felt that he
had collapsed outside a respect-
able hostelry like Pfahlert’s,
instead of having come a cropper
outside, say, the old Dog and
Duck, or slipped on an orange-
peel or a carelessly flung lobster-
claw as he essayed to step on to
the popular Parramatta Ferry,
resort of the lovelorn and furtive,
which plied busily to a dozen
wharves up the river from the
foot of King-street, and which
brazenly advertised that its fares
were “considerably under rail-
ways rates.”
Better still for the M.L.A. that
he had not committed the faux
pas of falling off the merry
Chowder Bay boat on its way
to Clifton Gardens, or tripped
on a banana-skin at Clontarf,
whose dancing maenads and
dryads would soon dance with
rage when the infant Bulletin
took to them and their goings-on.
In any of those alternative
circumstances so simple a
paragraph might have led to the
hon. gentleman’s eclipse as a
legislator. There were some
things not done. Sydney enjoyed
itself, but it had its* conventions,
and its cloak behind which the
mob was not allowed even to
glimpse the nakedness of its
daily life.
It was this nakedness The
Bulletin proceeded to expose
with the help of its illustrations
and its fresh and vigorous line
of attack. And no debut ever
created a more startling effect
on a community than the
exposures by the new Archibald-
Haynes press when it set up in
business, with a word of praise
for F. T. Wimble for the celerity
with which that firm had
supplied its necessaries—on tick.
Wimbles, it may here be noted,
has been The Bulletin’s ink-
supplier ever since. A few years
ago the head of that old firm, on
a world tour, made close inquiries
in both England and America
into whether any ink-supplier in
either of those countries, or else-
where, could claim such a link
with one paper. He could find
no parallel anywhere, and was
told that his firm’s association
with The Bulletin was prob-
ably a world record by a wide
margin of years.
That first 1880 Bulletin gave
its readers a solemn assurance
that it was “in no way connected
with the ‘Sydney Morning
Herald.’ ”
(<Continued on page 44)


V
//
* *«
ITS PRINTED
with Wimbles inks
ft
a
j
* *
7
H
7
*
%
f‘
C'
Z?
/
v
F. T. WIMBLE and Co. LIMITED extend hearty
congratulations to (t The Bulletin” on its 75 years of
achievement and wish it continued success.
UNIQUE WORLD RECORD ....
Since 1880 F. T. Wimble and Co. Limited have
supplied the Printing Inks to "The Bulletin.”
F. T. WIMBLE m CO. LIMITED
(Established 1867 ) »
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH NEW ZEALAND


Who They Are, What They Do
Contemporary Writers and Poets
By W. E. FITZ HENRY
This survey is concerned only with
present-day contributors of stories
and verse to The Bulletin —about 150
of them.
It does not include the hundreds
of paragraphists, the occasional writers
of special articles, or any of The
Bulletin staff-writers —at least 10 oj
them —who also write stories and
verse.
THE veteran of all these
writers and poets is Mary
Gilmore, who celebrated
her 89th birthday last
August with the publication of
Fourteen Men, a beautiful book
and a remarkable accomplish-
ment by any standard.
Mary Gilmore’s poems first
appeared . in the Sydney
“Worker” and Hobart “Clipper,”
and, though J. F. Archibald
would not publish a book of
them selected by A. G. Stephens,
her Marri’d and Other Verses
was a distinct hit when printed
in Melbourne. Though now a
rare event, a poem from her pen
still occasionally arrives at 252
George-street, Sydney.
Four years younger than Mary
Gilmore, Arnold Wall is as
prolific as ever. Seven years
ago, visiting Sydney from New
Zealand, he came up The
Bulletin stairs in wonderful
fettle —not surprising; he has
also climbed the Matterhorn, the
Dent du Midi, and 19,000 ft. up
the Himalayas. Along with
writing polished verse for The
Bulletin for more than 50
years, he has had a distinguished
professorial career.
It is more than 60 years since
The Bulletin printed Will
Ogilvie’s first poem, “Beyond
the Barrier,” signed “Glen-
rowan.” About 25 at the time,
Rosemary Dobson
Ogilvie had then been in Aus-
tralia five years. During his stay
here he was drover, horse-
breaker, station-hand and, among
other things as well, friend of
Harry Morant (“The Breaker”).
There was music in everything in
those days [Ogilvie wrote long after he
had left Australia], sad music or sweet,
but always music. And the roaring
whips and the beating hoofs and the
jingling chains all wrote themselves
down in one rhyme or another.
Ogilvie has been writing verses
for The Bulletin ever since;
his “Welcome, Our Queen!” —
sent from Scotland —was pub-
lished in these pages on the
day (February 3, 1954) that her
Majesty arrived in Sydney.
Apropos' the poem “Aus-
tralia’s Farewell to the Queen”
(B. 7/4/’54) was written by a
stranger to this paper, “Agnes
Millrose,” which is the pen-
name of Merle Glasson, a Sydney
schoolteacher before her
marriage.
A breezy, generous fellow,
Will Lawson, now 78, belongs
to the days when windjammers
berthed at Circular Quay. A
few years back there began arriv-
ing, several times a week, the
lively series of sea ballads which
were later gathered together in
his book Bill the Whaler —an
astonishing outburst of energy.
Fine-looking broad giant of a
Mary Gilmore .
man and pattern of courtesy,
Hugh McCrae is son of George
Gordon McCrae, “the father of
Victorian poetry,” who was
friend of Marcus Clarke, Adam
Lindsay Gordon and Henry
Kendall. Hugh was “articled to
an architect, but soon abandoned
the rule and compass to contri-
bute drawings and serious verse
to The Bulletin” ; studied art,
acted on Australian and
American stages, and has been a
dramatic critic and a literary
editor.
In a catchline a Bulletin
sub. described James Hackston
as “a bit of a mystery.”
Actually, “James Hackston” is
a pen-name concealing the
identity of a prominent black-
and-white artist. Bom at Ryde
(N.S.W.), he was educated at a
bush school. His father was a
gold-fossicker, and in many a
story and verse Hackston has
drawn on his own mining experi-
ences as his “father’s mate.”
After leaving the bush Hackston
worked for a legal firm, “serving
summonses on friend and foe,”
before turning to black-and-
white art. He was a great friend
of C. J. Dennis, who did the
drawing of him which appears
with this survey.
Vance Palmer, 70 this year, is
a Bulletin old-timer, as alert-
minded as ever. His first book,
The World of Men, published
40 years ago, was a collection of
stories. He has been writing
stories ever since. After a long
absence, he made a reappear-
ance here with “Serenade” (B.
28/7 /’54). He has written many
novels ; two, Men Are Human
and The Passage, were serialised
in The Bulletin. He has also
done much by his criticism to
enliven interest in Australian
literature. He was born at
Bundaberg (Q.) and once worked
on a cattle-station.
Henry G. Lamond is as old
as Palmer, and also a Queens-
lander. The Bulletin once
said:
With what’s on his birth-certificate
—b. Carl Creek police-station, N.
Queensland Henry George Lamond
could hardly help but turn out the
way he has. Adventurer, b'ushman,
expert horse-breaker, and, as evidenced
by his Bulletin stories, articles and
paragraphs, a first-class interpreter ol
animal life.
He still is. For 10 years his
MSS. used to come from Molle
Island, Whitsunday Passage.
Another with an unusual
address is W. E. Harney, of
One-Feller-Creek, Darwin. He
has been a Territorian for 30-
odd years, and is an acknow-
ledged authority on Binghi and
his country. A great yarn-
spinner, Bill could sit all day
beneath a banyan-tree and tell
stories of his adventures.
Another uncommon fellow is
Les Robinson, who, writing
little these days, has been a
Bulletin contributor for more
than 40 years. A beachcomber
by inclination, his unorthodox
mode of life has supplied him
with the material for his quaint
fables and fantasies. Ken
Slessor said of Les that he was
“an exiled stylist,” for whose
writings in the “bread-and-butter
scuffle of current journalism”
there was little demand. He has,
however, always had a small but
select body of admirers.
Les Robinson goes back to
the days of the old “Lone
Hand”; Roderick Kidston,
Sydney Metropolitan Crown
Prosecutor, who, as “Robert
Murray,” writes stories, wrote
for the “Lone Hand” in the old
days. At Sydney University with
Adrian Stephen, R. Innes Kay,
Duncan Hall and Randolph
Hughes, he has also associations
with Chris Brennan, and
belonged to the Casuals Club,
of which Brennan, J. Le Gay
Brereton, A. G. Stephens and
Dowell O’Reilly were members.
Brian James, author of the
Cookabundy stories, was in his
middle-age before he began to
write. He has often been com-
pared with Lawson, and was
born on Lawson’s birthday, 62
years ago. His father’s selection
adjoined the Lawson property at
Eurunderee (N.S.W.); his
father was the first teacher at
the Eurunderee school, where
Lawson, who made many refer-
ences to “the old bark school”
in his writings, was one of the
earliest pupils. Brian James’s
stories are rated among the best
that this paper has ever printed.
Brian James has been a school-
teacher all his adult life, except
for a term when he was a farmer
at Glenorie (N.S.W.). One of his
pupils was poet Eric Rolls. Now
a farmer at Boggabri (N.S.W.),
Rolls was 19 when he scored his
first Bulletin acceptance with
the poem “Death Song of a Mad
Bush Shepherd.”
Another schoolteacher writer
of stories is Don Edwards. He
1935
Illustration to serial of Kylie Tennant’s “Tiburon.”
first wrote verse; turning to
fiction, he won a Bulletin prize
with his story “He Walks Home
With His Wife.” Edwards
belongs to a group that broke
into the pages of The Bulletin
in the early ’thirties —a group
that included James Hackston,
E. O. Schlunke, Gavin Casey,
A. C. Headley, Kylie Tennant
and Margaret Trist.
E. O. Schlunke, whose stories
Judith Wright
of farm- and also city-life have
been appearing here since 1933,
is a native of Temora (N.S.W.),
with a sheep-property at
Reefton, not far from his home-
town. During the depression
years, as a relief from farm
troubles, he began to write
humorous stories and was soon
cashing Bulletin cheques. He
also writes occasional verse, as
does Olga, his wife.
Gavin Casey, a Westralian
who’s been writing for The
Bulletin for the past 20 years,
returned thanks in his book It’s
Harder for Girls, and with
characteristic generosity:
All the stories in this volume were
first published in The Bulletin, to
which I owe as much for encourage-
ment in cheque and other forms as
any of the hundreds of Australian
writers it has helped in the past.
A Casey story, “No,body’s
Ghost,” won a Bulletin prize.
Always there’s a racy masculinity
and strength about his writing —
qualities typical of Casey
himself.
Other Westralians writing
stories for The Bulletin today
include T. A. G. Hunger-
ford ; John K. Ewers (b.
Subiaco), who has been send-
ing in contributions on and
off since 1939 ; Neil Millar (b.
Guildford), a newcomer, once a
schoolteacher, now a poultry-
farmer at Kalamunda (W.A.);
and J. T. Carr (b. Dwellingup),
another newcomer, a telegraphist
who was on Heard Island, and
who writes first-class stories
about the Antarctic.
R. S. Porteous (“Standby”),
who writes of the little ships that
plough the water North o’ 28, is
a long-legged cove of salty
appearance; one of many deep-
watermen who have written
about the sea in The Bulletin.
A World War I Light Horse-
man, Porteous has managed a
cattle-station, and was running a
tourist-launch on Barrier Reef
cruises when World War II
Robert D. Fitz Gerald
David Campbell
T. A. G. Hungerford
Arnold Wall
Edward Harrington
Les Robinson
E. O. Schlunke


broke out. He then joined-up
as chief-officer on a small ship
on the Australia-New Guinea
run. While with the small ships
he began writing short-stories
and in three years wrote 62. The
pick of his early Bulletin
stories are in his book called
Little Known of These Waters.
About 18 years' ago fine
short-stories started coming from
Olaf Ruhen. Some told of the
N.Z. gold-diggings, others of
fishing-boats, others again of a
timber-mill. Later the Air Force
crept into the yarns ; but what-
ever the theme there was in all
of the stories a breath of
authenticity. Years later Ruhen
himself called in, and it was
discovered that he had fossicked
for gold, he had fished for a
living, he had worked in a
timber-mill, and he had flown
bombers over Germany. These
days he’s a Sydney journalist by
way of a change.
Many of the younger men now
writing for The Bulletin were
p.-0.-w. during World War 11,
among them Clive Barry, Geoff
Bingham, Hugh V. Clarke and
W. M. Simmons.
While he was in Changi Geoff
Bingham wrote something like
half a dozen novels and
unlimited quantities of short-
stories. The Bulletin pub-
lished “Laughing Gunner,” fore-
runner of many by him since.
Geoff Bingham, M.M., was a
sergeant in the Bth Div. Signals.
After the war he was farming on
the N-S.W. North Coast; he is
now a minister of the church.
Clive Barry, who was in the
Middle East, was bagged by
Fritz at Benghazi*and sent to
North Italy. From Capua
p.-0.-w. camp he escaped and
ended up in Switzerland. He
was later education-officer on
ships bringing migrants to Aus-
tralia. While on th 6 run he kept
a diary of his long trek to
freedom, from which source
have come characters in his
stories.
Hugh V. Clarke was captured
by the Japanese in Malaya. A
Queenslander, he lives at Can-
berra. Clarke’s first Bulletin
Gloria Rawlinson
story, “Nick and the Great
World,” was printed in 1953.
His work has also appeared in
Australia Writes, published by
the Canberra Fellowship of
Australian Writers.
W. M. Simmons was with the
Bth Div. when he was taken by
the Japanese in Dutch Timor.
His first Bulletin story was “I
Know Bushmen,” published in
1953.
Other Bulletin story-writers
who saw service during World
War II include David Campbell,
David Rowbotham, Roderic
Daw, Jack Lusby, Tom
Hungerford, Stephen Kelen,
J. C. Horner, P. J. Cunning-
ham, H. A. Lindsay, J. E.
Murphy, Art Hausler, Dal
Stivens, Bernard Harris, N. A.
King, Garnsey Potts, A. C.
Headley, J. T. Carr and Neil
Millar.
Carr and Millar have been
mentioned earlier. Campbell
and Rowbotham are also
Bulletin poets, whose ranks
also include many other
ex-servicemen.
David Campbell is a six-footer
belonging to a N.S.W. pastoral
family that owned Ellerslie
station. He was captain of The
King’s School; Sydney, went to
Cambridge, was a football
“blue” there, played for England,
was a War II squadron-leader,
with the D.F.C. and Bar,
and is now a grazier at Wells
(A.C.T.). Recent stories by him
have been “Actresses Must
Have Flowers,” “Apples and
Pears,” “Ask for It Nice,”
“Look Out at the Big City,”
“The Pipes of Pan” and “Where
Men Die Twice.”
David Rowbotham (b. Darling
Downs, Q.) is on the stafE of the
Toowoomba “Chronicle.” He
has only lately entered the short-
story field, but he has already
turned in three fine stories:
“Molly Shay’s Favorite,” “And
Away We Go” and “The
Minister.”
Kenneth Mackenzie, a grand
fellow personally, was drowned
near Goulburn (N.S.W.) after
this article had been roughed-
out. He had been associated with
The Bulletin for over 20 years.
A Westralian, after studying law
and agriculture he became a
Sydney journalist, and in World
War II guarded Japanese and
Italian p.-0.-w. and wrote a
fine novel based on his experi-
ences. His “Little Miss Model”
(B. 29/10/’52) was the longest
short-story ever printed in The
Bulletin.
Roderic Daw (b. Naracoorte,
S.A.) joined the A.1.F., and after
the war worked for “Warrigal”
Bartlett for a year on Mt. Sturt
station, Tibooburra (N.S.W.).
Daw now has his own property
at Lucindale (S.A.). His story
“Johnston Needs a Hand,”
reprinted in Australia Writes,
and Ethel Anderson’s “A Study
in Anger” were described as
“two of the finest Bulletin
stories of their years.”
Now and then (like James
Hackston) a Bulletin artist
takes to writing fiction. The
group includes Jack Lusby, a
former R.A.A.F. pilot, whose
forceful, quick-moving yarns,
ranging from the Air Force to
life in New Guinea and city
crime, have included “From
Kano,” “Room for Two,” “You
Don’t Have to Shoot” and “The
Gun.”
A husky fellow with his
commando training still visible
on his frame, Tom Hungerford,
from W.A., moves about. He is
likely to be around Thursday
Island studying pearling, on
Bathurst Island looking
into native missions, or
at Rum Jungle getting the
dinkum oil on uranium. His
three novels have bteen based on
such first-hand experience, which
goes, too, for his Bulletin
stories. At the moment he’s
round about the Antarctic.
A Hungarian, who first came
here in 1937, Stephen Kelen has
four books to his name, speaks
seven languages and has been in
most countries on this globe.
He soldiered for close on seven
years. Recent stories by Kelen
have included his very fine
“Who Is My Enemy?”
Dal Stivens was a bank-clerk
when his first stories appeared.
Later he was a journalist, and,
after being in the Army, joined
the Commonwealth News and
Information Bureau, for which he
went to London, but resigned to
give his time to writing. Stivens
has published three collections
of stories; his latest, The
Gambling Ghost, grew out of
an interest in Australian “tall
stories” and bush ballads.
Art Hausler, whose first story,
“Lead On, White Man,”
appeared in 1951, has carried his
swag and has been a beekeeper
for 12 years, except for the time
he was with the Air Force. In
the war-years he ran into
Bulletin artist Unk White on
Los Negros Island, and some-
how persuaded Unk to buy an
MS. from him. Why Unk would
want an MS. from a stranger in
the middle of the Pacific
campaign remains one of the
mysteries of the war.
Other World War II ex-
servicemen include H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.), who has been
bank-clerk, farmhand, timber-
cutter, reporter, carpenter and
beekeeper. Among other
achievements, he taught himself
to live off the land like an
aboriginal.
P. J. Cunningham, a N.S.W.
schoolteacher (first acceptance,
“A Cultivated Gentleman,” in
1950), was engaged in Secret
Service work, and is an authority
on boxer Les Darcy.
Another interested in the
noble art is J. E. Murphy. As a
Nancy Cate
boy at Charleville (Q.) he saw
many a promoted bare-knuckle
fight in the backyaitl of his
father’s hotel. Murphy once
worked on an Aborigine
Station on Badu Island, nor’-
west o’ Thursday.
A. C. Headley (N.S.W.),
advertising copywriter, won a
Bulletin story competition
years ago, followed it up with
his Skinny Hazlitt and slum
stories, lapsed into silence for
years, then made a comeback to
the pages of this paper about a
year ago.
Bernard Harris (N.S.W.), a
schoolteacher, served in the
Pacific area as an air-navigator;
first story was “Christmas
Surprises.”
J. C. Homer (Tas.), also a
teacher and a navigator, flew in
light-bombers in the Middle
East and in supply-dropping air-
craft in Burma. “P for Peter,”
his first story, was an outcome
of his war experiences. Horner
also writes poetry.
Norman King (N.S.W.) had a
Catalina view of the Battle of
the Coral Sea, and is a journalist
with the Lithgow (N.S.W.)
“Mercury.” He got his first
Bulletin cheque when he was
22 for a story called “Nugget.”
Garnsey Potts (Q.), now farm-
ing, was a squadron-leader in
New Guinea. In World War I
he was with the A.F.C. He
was a competitor in the England-
Australia Air Race in a
Blackburn Kangaroo in 1919.
Hal Porter has been writing
stories since he was 17;
“Holiday,” his first Bulletin
story, appeared when he was 23.
Also a verse-writer, Porter has
had a varied career, typical of
the great majority of Bulletin
contributors. He was a modern-
languages teacher at various
private schools, was in Japan—
his story “House Girl” (B.
1/9/’54) was a result of his stay
there—and has been reporter,
hospital-orderly, cook, artist,
actor, gardener, hotel-manager
and proof-reader.
John Balfour Brown, Mel-
bourne sporting journalist—
“ Midstream” <jn the “Sun News-
Pictorial” —not only writes about
horses but rides them, which
is more than most racing-writers
do. Horses have been a large
part of his life from childhood;
his first Bulletin story, “Rodeo
Morning,” appeared in 1949.
H. C. Baker, a N.S.W. brick-
layer, writes stories with the
building-trade as a background ;
A. E. Sturges, a Tasmanian
draftsman, sees the drama in the
working of an electric power-
station. In the same way J. C.
Shelley’s industrial experience
sometimes shows up in his
stories. Shelley (N.S.W.), whose
first Bulletin yarn was “Once
Break the Ice,” has worked in
power-stations, sugarmills and
in a naval dockyard.
John Morrison (Vic.), an
assisted migrant from England,
has been a farm-laborer, station-
hand, navvy and wharf laborer.
John Abernethy (N.S.W.) —his
“Dick H.” appeared in the 1953
Christmas dumber when he was
23 —has been almost everything
from jackeroo to dishwasher,
and has travelled in France,
Spain and Italy. Roy
Theodore (Q.) has shovelled
coal for a crust, was once a
theology student, and is now
in the radio game.
J. D, Woods (N.S.W.), son
of a Broken Hill miner, is a
schoolteacher; David Rees
(N.S.W.) is a veterinary surgeon ;
A. B. Sherlock (N.S.W.) is a
cartographer; Keith Youman
(N.S.W.) has not long graduated
from Sydney University in Arts
and Law.
Until his retirement due to
ill-health, John Hodgkinson
(N.S.W.) was a storeman in a
Sydney factory. He then began
to write stories, and says: “The
Bulletin helped me through the
sound-barrier by accepting my
first.”
A story that sticks in one’s
mind is “Bogey Plays Football,”
by John Graham (Q.), printed
in 1953. Graham’s father
managed Victoria River Downs
station (N.T.), and Graham had
cattle experience there and at
Wave Hill. He was also on the
Katherine - Birdum railway-
constructiQn. What he writes
has the authentic bush touch.
Gloria Rawlinson (N.Z.) had
her first story-acceptance in
1947. Born in the Friendly
Islands, she belongs to a pioneer
N.Z. family. The Red Page said
of her not long ago:
Her stories have a richness and a
strangeness not to be found elsewhere
in the same measure. Of course they
are helped by their remote and exotic
setting But the essential difference
between them and the average story
lies not so much in thfe setting as in the
delightful hum'or with which they are
told, in the meticulous observation of
character, in all its oddities and
quirks, in the poetry of the style,
in the diversity of mood and inci-
dent, within a compact form.
Among women writing stories
for The Bulletin today, Myra
Morris goes back further than
any except Jessie Litchfield.
{Continued on next page )
R. S. Porteous
(“Standby”)
Will H. Ogilvie
Roland Robinson
Will Lawson
Olaf Ruhen
James Hackston
Hugh McCrae
Cicada Song
1955
Sumer is icumen in,
Loud sing cicada !
Bulljo nippeth, black snake slippeth,
Sun biteth harder.
Treetops ring with peals of light
(Merry sing Greengrocer !)
Red bark cracketh, blue smoke tracketh,
Bushfire stealeth closer.
Sing cicada!
Black Prince with his ruby eyes
Stareth at the season ;
Doubledrummer drunk with summer
Shrilleth past all reason.
Sing Floury Baker, Yellow Monday,
Bright as sun on bough;
Sing cicada, sing cicada,
Sing cicada now.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


Born in the Victorian Mallee,
Myra Morris is a versatile writer
of serials, short-stories, verse and
articles, A collection of her
stories appeared in 1947 under
the title of The Township. Her
short-stories have appeared con-
sistently in anthologies, including
those edited by Nettie Palmer
and George Mackaness, and also
Coast to Coast.
Margaret Trist, bom in
Queensland, spent most of her
girlhood on the Darling Downs,
and has lived in the Blue
Mountains (N.S.W.) and in
various Sydney suburbs.
Wherever she has lived has pro-
vided backgrounds for her
stories. And, said Norman
Lindsay, “Best of all she has a
gay spirit.”
After a spell from its pages for
1902
DECORATION FOR VERSE BY GRANT HERVEY
some years, during which she
was writing novel after novel
(among them the Bulletin-
published Tiburon), Kylie
Tennant (N.S.W.) reappeared
again in The Bulletin in 1952
with a story about a flooded
township. A more recent story
was her “Transfer of Mr.
Trace”: “When Mr. Trace came
to Merriwidgee he inquired who
lived in the hut with the tin
chimney and the mud veranda;
He was told that that was his
5ch001....”
Jessie Litchfield’s first contri-
bution appeared in The
Bulletin’s mining-page when
James Edmond was editor,
That was when she was
travelling around North Aus-
tralia with her mining-
engineer husband. She has lived
in the N.T. for nearly 50 years,
has edited “The NX Times”
and has been Darwin corres-
pondent for various papers.
Two Queensland women who
have been writing Bulletin
stories for some time are E. M.
England and E. Dithmack
(Edith McKay). E. M. England
was born at Townsville and
educated at the Ipswich Girls’
Grammar School. She is a
regular contributor of verse,
short-stories and articles to many
Australian journals. E. Dith-
mack, born at Rockhampton,
has used that part of the North
as background for many of her
stories.
Two other Queensland women
writers are E. Gollschewsky
and Jean Dunstan. Mrs.
Gollschewsky was born on af
cattle-station on the banks of
the Burnett River, where was set
her first Bulletin story, “I Had
Five Thousand Steers,” a
character-sketch of her father,
“Old Jim” was based on Jim
Adams, a Burnett River identity
—drover, publican, wild fighter
and lover of children. .
Member of an old Queensland
family, Jean Dunstan had her
first Bulletin story, “Wouldn’t
It Make Your-Blood Run Cold?”
printed in 1953.' She spent much
of her life in Malaya, has a
complete knowledge of many of
the incidents in Bruce Lockhart’s
Return to Malaya, and recalls
her elders discussing the murder
upon which Somerset Maugham
built his play “The Letter.”
Mabel Wain Smith, who has
lately contributed lively stories
about China and elsewhere, is a
Quaker from Philadelphia
(U.S.A.), and is a sister of Nora
Wain, American authoress,
While in China she met an
English sea-captain, whom she
married, and they voyaged
around the world. Her colorful
life also takes in three years in
Japanese internment-camps, the
bombing and siege of Shanghai
in 1949 by the Communists, and
a year under their harsh rule.
Another travelled story-writer
is Ethel Anderson. Born in
England, she spent her childhood
in Australia.' She married Brig.-
General A. T. Anderson, lived on
the Indian Frontier and in
Sydney and Canberra, where,
respectively, her husband was
private-secretary to N.S.W.
Governors and to Lord Gowrie.
Her first writings for The
Bulletin were essays on the
Australian artists Roi de Mestre,
Roland Wakelin and Grace
Cossington Smith. The Red
Page said of her stories of old
Parramatta that she “seems to
speak with the serene wisdom
of a century, building story and
atmosphere from a mosaic of
exact fact and observation.”
Helen Meggs, a Victorian
librarian, made a hit with
“Burning Off,” an amusing satire
on the starting of bushfires and
not being able to put them out.
Told as a direct reminiscence,
it had the quality of a sketch by
Lawson at his gayest.
M. G. Vincent, born at
Dorrigo, is a member of a
N.S.W. North Coast newspaper
family. She first worked on her
father’s paper, “The Don
Dorrigo Gazette,” and also
worked with a brother of “Blue-
bush” Bourke, who wrote a lot
of verse for The Bulletin in the
old days.
A Bulletin story reprinted in
Coast to Coast, “The Legend of
Sister Merry Christmas,” by
another woman, Lyndall Hadow,
and dealing with the advent of
an aged Englishwoman of the
old school to a West Australian
settlement for aborigines, was
written with first-hand know-
ledge, for the author was once
Administrative Matron of the
Moore River (W.A.) Native
Settlement. Her father was
Julian Stuart, who, as “Curlew,”
wrote the poem “Boko” in The
Bulletin Reciter.
Z. V. Webb (Vic.) spent her
childhood in Gippsland. Her
most popular Bulletin story,
“The Shared Dog,” was broad-
cast oyer the A.B.C. and the
8.8. C., and was printed in
“London Calling” and in Twice
Told Tales, a 8.8. C. anthology.
Georgian House, Melbourne,
published it as a book, it
appeared (in Spanish) in a South
American digest, and in news-
papers in West Germany, Austria
and Switzerland.
Audrey Reynolds, a Sydney
girl, was 21 when The Bulletin
accepted “Dark Leaf” in 1952.
Among other things she has been
a receptionist in a Blue
Mountains (N.S.W.) hotel and a
shipping-clerk in Rabaul.
Jean Rosen is on the executive
staff and a director of a firm of
plastic engineers. Her first
story was “Assimilation” (B.
3/11/’54).
“Duncan Campbell” is May
Bell, a graduate of Perth Uni-
versity, who now works in
London with an advertising-
agency.
Mary Durack is another
Western Australian. Daughter of
M. P. Durack, pioneer of the
Kimberley “country, she lived at
Argyle and Ivanhoe stations,
East Kimberley. With her sister,
Elizabeth, she is co-author of
books on aboriginal subjects.
Two of them, Chunuma and
Allabout, were BuLLETiN-office
publications.
Last year (October 20) The
Bulletin printed a story
“Better Than Australia, No?”
about a New Australian family
who ran a cafe, written by
Thelma Forshaw. It was such a
true-to-life story that The
Bulletin was not surprised to
learn that the writer had done
casual waitressing and had
worked in a milk-bar.
Four other women writers of
stories of distinction who will
receive a mention later—as
poets —are Judith Wright, Rose-
mary Dobson, Nancy Cato and
Nancy Keesing.
A writer of away back in the
’nineties, “G. L. Faine,” for
some unexplained reason stopped
writing verse in 1904. Last year
“G. L. Faine” —who is
Frederick Bennett (Q.) —after his
50 years’ absence from the
poetical field, made a comeback
with “The Ghost Town” and
“Drought at Trioda” —a lapse-
record without a rival in the
history of this papier.
“G. L. Faine” is one of the
last links with the bush balladists
of the ’nineties. Another,
although he has written little of
late, is W. M. Fleming, who had
verse published in The Bulletin
during that period.
A few years back the ballad
was still going strong in the
writings of Lex McLennan,
T. V. Tierney, C. H. Winter and
Edward Harrington.
' Harrington had been a
Bulletin poet for 25 years
before he called at 252 George-
street, on a visit from Melbourne.
He found Sydney in the throes
of a beer-strike, as a result of
which he feared the fount of his
inspiration would be perman-
ently affected. His people were
on the land in the Victorian
Mallee, and his experience of
clearing scrub and farming sand-
hills prompted his first Bulletin
verse, “Cry from the Mallee.”
That was in the early ’twenties,
and he still speaks gratefully of
the help given him by Andree
Hayward, then handling
Bulletin verse.
This paper first heard of
David Campbell about 12 years
ago, when a series of lyrics of
remarkable quality began to
arrive, among them “Harry
Pearce,” as Australian as a
“Banjo” Paterson ballad, but as
finely turned as a song by Hugh
McCrae. As Douglas Stewart
has pointed out, Campbell’s
poetry serves to illustrate what is
the most interesting trend in
Australian poetry today after
the movement towards narrative
as shown in the writings of
R. D. Fitz Gerald and others: its
distinctive, but generally unself-
conscious, Australianness —fresh,
realistic and lyrical. Quoting
Stewart: •
Campbell, who writes as if he really
knows the land, not merely as if he
thought it his duty to make it his
theme, is more directly in the Paterson
tradition than any other contemporary
Australian poet.
R. D. Fitz Gerald, leader of the
other important trend in Aus-
tralian poetry —that of the
historical narrative —is a nephew
of poet John Le Gay Brereton.
He was bom at Hunter’s Hill
(N.S.W.), and is a land-surveyor,
who has practised his profession
in Fiji and in N. S. Wales:
The most important of the intel-
lectual poets of today [said H. M.
Green] is undoubtedly Robert D. Fitz-
Gerald; except Brennan, he is indeed
the most important poet that Australia
has yet produced. His works blow
like a fresh wind across the jaded and
disillusioned world. Idealistic without
sentimentality, he finds in man a
heroic quality that it is nowadays the
fashion —at least among the intel-
lectuals —to ignore.
And of Fitz Gerald’s “Heems-
kerck Shoals” the Red Page
said:
Within recent years it is his most
masterly Bulletin contribution. It
is a poem with all the dignity and
spaciousness of major poetry.
Twenty-three years younger
than Fitz Gerald, Francis Webb
was born in Adelaide, is a Sydney
University graduate, served with
the R.A.A.F. and describes him-
self as a laborer. Webb won the
Grace Leven award for poetry
with his “A Drum for Ben
Boyd,” which was printed' in
The Bulletin, as were also his
“Leichhardt in Theatre” and
“Disaster Bay.” He had a poem
in The Bulletin when he was
17; the Ben Boyd poem was
written when he was 22. It is
in the company of Slessor’s
“Captain Cook” and Fitz Gerald’s
“Heemskerck Shoals.” For
Webb to have written it at 22,
remarked the Red Page, was “an
extraordinary achievement with-
out parallel, considering its
maturity and its merit, in Aus-
tralian literature.”
W. Hart Smith began as a
member of the “offensively Aus-
tralian” Jindyworobaks; some
of his later work shows the
influence of a drift towards the
historic past and the creation of
historic character. He is a
tutorial organiser with Canter-
bury University College, Christ-
church (N.Z.).
Kenneth Mackenzie (listed
earlier among the story-writers)
had published two books of
verse, Our Earth and The
Moonlit Doorway.
The best of Judith Wright’s
work" has appeared in The
Bulletin. She was born at
Armidale (N.S.W.), is a Sydney
{Continued on page 40)


Quality Chisels by
You can take
a real craftsman’s pride
in quality wood chisels by Titan.
Every Titan chisel is
skilfully designed, a perfectly balanced,
precision-made tool, essentially rugged
and possessing strength to spare.
Ask your storekeeper
to show you the fine range
of these quality tools
now available.
Titan chisels
are genuinely forged
from special quality
B.H.P. Steel.
Completely
Guaranteed
m
in
mm
H
■
m
m
.
A
Illustrated above from left~*
Socket Butt ’Bevelled Edge
(Catalogue No. 316)
Registered Plain £dge
(Catalogue No. 101)
Firmer Bevelled Edge
(Catalggue No. 136)
• Write today to Dept. “T”, P.O. Box 86A, Melbourne ,
K 7
for your free Titan illustrated Catalogue.
THE TITAN MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD., TASMANIA


University graduate and held
secretarial positions before
marrying and going to live in
Queensland. As has been said of
her: “Whenever one hears her
name one always hears the
cattlebells in her ‘Bullocky,’
ringing ‘with their sweet, uneasy
sound’ ”:
Her philosophical poems are
written with a power and a passion
altogether rare in Australian poetry.
The image is rich and beautiful, and
one is aware all the time of the
masterly handling of rhythm; strong
like a heart beating. And in her other
poems, especially Australian in terms
of heat and surf and cattlebells,
humanity in the figures of drovers,
bushrangers, the half-caste girl, the
mad old girl on the hill, and the gently
terrified “Brothers and Sisters” of the
poem of that title, and all expressing
the writer’s own richly feminine genius
and the imagery of blossoming trees.
Described once as “slight*
dark, intense, her conversation
a maze of quick gestures and
quick wit,” Eve Langley was
born near Forbes (N.S.W.) and
lived there, at Jerilderie, and in
small hot towns back of Bourke
before living for years in Gipps-
land (Vic.). She is now on the
staff of the Auckland (N.Z.)
Public Library. One of her
best poems is that about the
dead kangaroo, reprinted from
The Bulletin in H. M. Green’s
Modem Australian Poetry.
Kathleen Dalziel, born in
Natal (South Africa), was writ-
ing verse for The Bulletin as
Kathleen Walker during the first
decade of this century. It was
not until 1941 that she made a
selection for book-publication.
Nan McDonald, one of the
women poets at present giving
Australian poetry a new distinc-
tion and grace, was born at
Eastwood (N.S.W.), is a Sydney
University graduate, and is now
on the editorial staff of Angus
and Robertson.
Rosemary Dobson, in the top
flight of women poets, is
represented in 10 of the 11
editions of the Australian Poetry
anthology. A Sydney University
graduate, she studied art under
Thea Proctor and worked in a
London publishing-office.
Elizabeth Riddell, born in
New Zealand, has travelled
widely and has held important
positions in the newspaper world.
She manages to be contemporary
and comprehensible at the same
time.
Mary Finnin, original both in
vision and technique, has one
thing in common with J. F.
Archibald, one of the two
founders of The Bulletin —she,
too, was born at Kildare, near
Geelong (Vic.). Her first
Bulletin submission received an
answer that said: “Interesting
facts about seaweed carefully
noted.” This chilled her, but
she was warmed when, reviewing
her first book, the Red Page
remarked:
She has achieved one more remark-
able feat; written a good poem about
Sydney’s bridge, from whose arches
about 13 lesser writers a week ago
went hurtling into the w.p.b.
Nancy Cato went to Adelaide
University, and has been a
journalist in Adelaide, covering
everything from art-shows to
police-courts, social gatherings
to bushfires. She acquired a
taste for the inland when she
made a trip into the interior
with a party of anthropologists,
and can drive anything from a
jeep to a blitz-buggy. Nancy
Cato was associated with Flex-
mo r e Hudson’s magazine
“Poetry,” and edited the 1950
Jindyworobak Anthology. She
is a member of the Lyrebird
Writers.
Other members of the Lyre-
bird Writers are Roland Robin-
son, Nancy Keesing, Ray
Mathew, John Blight and David
Rowbotham all Bulletin
poets.
Born in North Ireland, Roland
Robinson has been wandering
over Australia since he was 14.
A list of the many things he has
done would fill a column. When
last heard from he was a green-
keeper at a golf-links. The Red
Page pointed out that his poems
read more impressively in his
than thf>v do when nub-
books than dhey c °o^ len n
1in wi together in book-
were linked togetner in dook
form it became apparent that
Robinson had not been writing
isolated short poems, as his
magazine publications led one to
be lfeve, but a single long
pastoral about his wanderings
in Australia-a kind of narrative
poem in which he establishes his
character as a wanderer.
Ray Mathew was a school-
teacher and is now a C.5.1.R.0.
c l er k. His is completely honest
p oe t r y 5 nothing false about it in
emotion or technique, with an
Elizabethan gusto and frankness
j n love lyrics.
Na Keesing did clerical
work in a naval dockyard during
World War 11, and is a trained
social-worker. These days a
freelance journalist, she is the
1935
“If my memory does not deceive me, it’s a boy.”
author of a book of poems,
Imminent Summer, and is co-
editor with Douglas Stewart, of
an anthology of Australian
ballads
John Blight born in South
Australia, has lived in Queens-
land since he was a child. He
worked on his father’s farm, was
on a citrus-orchard, went on the
track with a kangaroo-shooter,
did some solid work as a ring-
barker on a sheep-station, and is
now an accountant. He first
tried his hand at a Bulletin
verse when he was 16, and he
suffered rejections for nine years
before his first acceptance. The
Red Page has drawn atten-
tion to the remarkable series of
sea-poems Blight has lately been
writing in The Bulletin.
Before David Rowbotham’s
first poem appeared in 1946 he
had collected 30 rejection-slips,
and cherishes an “Answers to
Correspondents” comment:
“Your drought poem drove the ■
Religious Editor to drink.”
His first book was Ploughman
and Poet.
It would be hard to find
more pleasant verse than Val
Vallis’s poems about the fisher-
men of the Queensland coast —
clear and capable poetry, full of
sunlight, storm, saltwater and
\yfth. the 2nd A.I.F. in
New Guinea, Vallis sent to The
Bulletin his “Song of the East
Coast,” written in Madang,
’ . f
for his native
Gladstone (Q.).
Brian Vrepont lived for some
time in Queensland, where he
fossicked for gold, an,d for a
while he was a violin-teacher,
His “The Apple Tree" is rated
one of the loveliest short poems
written in Australia, “a dapple
of sun and a smother of snow-
flake petals.”
Vrepont has written about
crabs, butcher-birds, mushrooms,
fishermen, magpies and herons;
he has left the bunyip to Peter
Hopegood, who really has a
fondness for bunyips. It would
not be surprising if fie held com-
munication with them. Certainly,
he has often a faraway look in
his eyes.
Nothing about its writers
surprises The Bulletin. That
Peter Hopegood was once a
prison-warder, that Roland
Robinson sold snakes to a zoo,
and that Les Robinson likes
sleeping in caves are all simply
among those things that are to
be taken for granted.
Therefore the Religious Editor
did not spill his beer when told
that Louis Clarke (Vic.) was a
male-nurse, a long - distance
runner, and that he once ran a
trained-dog act on the stage. The
R.E. merely recalled that Bernard
Ingleby, an old-time poet, once
slept with an elephant.
Bulletin contributors are
likely to be anything from an
archdeacon to a zookeeper. Poet
Flexmore Hudson last year
became a rowing - master.
Originally a Queenslander,
Hudson founded and edited
“Poetry,” a quarterly of Aus-
tralian verse. He was also a
leading Jindyworobak.
lan Mudie was educated at
the same college where Flexmore
Hudson now teaches boys to
row (Scotch College, Mitcham,
S.A.), but says carrying a swag
also constituted part of his
education. During World War
II he edited Poets at War, an
anthology of verse by Australian
servicemen: more than half of
the verses in Poets at War came
from The Bulletin.
Mudie, who was awarded an
P v t e n d e d Commonwealth
extended Commonweal h
Literary Fund Fellowship to
write Inland Steamboats, the
story of steam navigation on the
Dari,mg durray Murrumbtdgee
and aliieu waters, nas nao some
first-class verse published in The
Bulletin of ate. He sin real-
estate in Adelaide.
Rex Ingamells, founder of the
Jindyworobaks, is these days
with a Melbourne publishing-
firm. Born at Orroroo (S.A.),
he spent his boyhood acquiring
a love of bushland and sea-
coast, an interest in historic
associations, and a concern for
the aborigine. Later he carried
his swag, travelled in a schooner
trading along the S.A. coast,
worked on Murray River fruit-
blocks, went walkabout with a
native in Central Australia, and
witnessed corroborees on the
shores of the Arafura Sea.
Another wanderer is Peter
Bladen, whose The Old Ladies at
Newington was recently pub-
lished. A native of Subiaco
(W.A.), Bladen studied music for
10 years before taking to writing.
In both the Army and Navy in
War 11, for a couple of years
after the war he lazed around
Lord Howe Island, then worked
in factories, on vineyards, sank
postholes and kept books at
wheat-silos. In 1953 he had a
long walkabout through the
W.A. and S.A. country, collect-
ing material for a travel-book,
the first serial instalment of
which appears in this issue of
The Bulletin.
A genial six-footer, Tom
Moore hails from Camden
(N.S.W.), enlisted as a gunner
in the 2nd A.I.F. and finished
as a major. He has had a
brilliant scholastic career, wrote
leaders for the “S. M. Herald”
for six years, and is now a
lecturer in Australian Literature
at Canberra University College.
Not so long ago an ancient
character strayed into The
Bulletin office and asked the
meaning of a Tom Moore poem,
“The Water Jump” (B. 28/7/’54).
Present scribe floundered through
a long and involved explanation,
whereupon the old fellow
scratched his head and said,
“Cripes! Come out and I’ll buy
you a beer!”
Although James McAuley had
had verse published in magazines
for 20 years, his first Bulletin
verse - was “Canticle” (B.
18/2/’53). McAuley was a
schoolteacher, was with Army
Education (so was Tom Moore)
and is now a lecturer with the
Australian School of Pacific
Administration. In 1944, with
poet Harold Stewart, McAuley
devised the elaborate and shat-
tering Era Malley hoax on
“Angry Penguins” as (he says)
“a counter-attack upon the
irrationalist neo - romanticism
then at its peak.”
Another 35 men and 30 women
(not counting a few that escaped
the dragnet of this survey) write
verse for The Bulletin.
Among the men, school-
teachers lead the field.
Christopher Koch (Tas.) is a
teacher in Hobart. His first
Bulletin poem, “Half Heard,”
was accepted when he was 18.
He is a friend of Vivian Smith
(Tas.), another teacher, whose
first Bulletin acceptance, “St.
David’s Park, Hobart,” was
printed when he was 17.
Kevin Piper (N.S.W.) is, like
David Campbell, a football
“blue.” His first Bulletin poem,
“On Us Out There,” started quite
ah argument in the “Other
Fellow’s Mind” pages. K. G.
Leask, writer of light verse, is a
Queensland teacher.
Colin Thiele (S.A.) has won
competitions for poetry, radio-
plays and radjo-documentaries.
His first contributions to The
Bulletin were “Middleback
Range” and “The Rain Men.”
He also wrote “Dad Drains the
Oil” (B. 9/6/’54), one of the
funniest stories The Bulletin
has printed.
R. D. Murphy (N.S.W.) is a
master at a Marist Brothers’
High School. He says he got
the idea for his first Bulletin
poem, “Railway Refrain,” when
he noticed on the Parramatta
(N.S.W.) railway-station the
names of the stopping-places for
the Western Mail.
Louis Johnson (N.Z.), editor
of New Zealand Poetry Year-
book is yet another of the school-
teachers.
Journalists include lan Healy
(N.S.W.), who is with the “New-
castle Morning Herald”; Jim
McCarter (Q.), one - time
j ackeroo, overseer and drover,
and now 1 editor of the “Queens-
land Worker”; and Eric Irvin
(N.S.W.), chief sub-editor of the
Wagga “Daily Advertiser.”
Irvin’s first Bulletin acceptance
was a poem written in 1941 when
he was with the 7th Div. in
Syria. His wife, Margaret, also
writes verse for The Bulletin.
lain McDougall (N.S.W.) was a
journalist on city dailies and in
the country until recently, when
he became a public-relations
consultant.
There are two full-time
authors, Geoffrey Dutton (S.A.)
and P. R. Stephensen. Dutton,
who spent his youth on his
family’s sheep-station, went to
Oxford after the war, then lived
in London and the south of
France, writing, From the
Belgian Congo came that poem
of his that begins:
O lovely, long-legged lazy blonde
Wandering down the sand to the
sea....
P. R. Stephensen (Vic.) is, of
course, “Inky” Stephensen,
Queensland Rhodes Scholar,
manager of the Fanfrolico, Man-
drake and Endeavour Presses,
founder of the* Australia First
movement, author of numerous
books and literary collaborator
with Frank Clune. “Inky’s”
latest effort was his tribute in
verse “In Memory of Miles
Franklin.”
Peter Miles (Q.) —bora at
Toowoomba, birthplace of so
many Bulletin personalities—
oContinued on page 42)


1907
HE DIDN’T LOOK IT, EITHER
DOGSBODY DAWKINS: “Yes, Mister, his name’s 'Orace, ’n' he’s a
gentleman born; but, Lor’ blesh yer, he ain’t a bit stuck up.”
1907
AT THE WAKE
O'ROUKE: “Well, well, well! ’Tis a sthrange wurruld, Mike. Today I follow
you, tomorrow yez follow me”
1903
A DROUGHT SIGN
1932
WAR MEMORIALS
“The bloke that done that oughter got the sack. Why, it ain’t no more
like an Horstralian soldier than wot l am.”
1912
THE MARTYRS
“The Women’s Social and Political Union demon-
strated at the Albert Hall last night, when 300
women, who had suffered imprisonment, occupied
the platform attired in white.” — Cable.


1907
runs his own publishing business
and broke into The Bulletin
with “Nuclear Fusion by Moon-
light.”
R. H. Webster (N.S.W.) is an
auctioneer at Temora. One of
Webster’s exploits was to row a
dinghy from Brisbane to Ipswich,
take it by train to Dalby, and
row, push and carry it down to
Mannum (S.A.). Webster first
scored with a sonnet 20 years
ago.
Bernard Peach (N.S.W.) is a
Sydney Water Board employee.
Most of his verses in “Aborigi-
nalities” have come from his
bush-walking. P. O. MacCabe
(N.S.W.) is a postal clerk, and a
writer of light, topical verse.
R. C. Brown (N.S.W.) is an
1.C.1.A.N.Z. Research Fellow in
Chemistry at Sydney University ;
Harold W. Denning (N.S.W.) was
also engaged in industrial
chemistry, but has lately taken
to teaching. J. A. Henderson
(Q.) is in charge of a dental
laboratory, grows prize dahlias
and has managed Australian
Rules football-teams.
Kevin Ryan (S.A.), born in the
mining-town of Iron Knob, is a
grocer at Naracoorte. Henry
Brennan (N.Z.) lives at
Otahuhu and works for a firm
of builders, and K. D. McKenzie
(Vic.) is a motor-engineering
officer ' with the Victorian
Electricity Commission at
Yallourn.
Old Digger W. M. B. Laycock
(N.S.W.) has tackled most out-
back occupations, was mining in
the Philippines, and spent three
years in a Japanese concentra-
tion-camn. He has been con-
tributing longer than most of the
casuals —for more than 30 years,
in fact. J. J. Alderson (Vic.)
raises capons at Maryborough
and has cycled through Great
Britain and the Continent;
W- N. Scott (Q.) was in the
sugar-industry, both in the cane-
fields and in the mills.
A. J. Wood, at present pros-
pecting with Bill Harney in the
N.T. for uranium, has been
farmer, shearer, miner, drover,
grazier and sheep-dealer; a
grandmother ran a circus, and
he was in show business himself
—-as an opera-singer.
The Bulletin has always had
a few churchmen among its
writers, ranging from curates to
archbishops, among them J. R.
Hervey (N.Z.), an Anglican
priest, who wrote, among other
pieces, “The Interloper.”
Roy Morton (Q.) is a
Methodist minister working in
the Gulf of Carpentaria and
points between Burketown and
Boulia. He says that “pushing
a car around the back-country is
hard work, and inspiration comes
more readily than opportunity.”
Lex Banning (N.S.W.) and
Hal Porter (Vic.) are both
librarians. Guy Howarth
(N.S.W), who has been appointed
to the Arderne Chair of English
Literature at Cape Town (South
Africa), is a scholar, poet and
critic, and y,as until the end of
last year Reader in English
Literature at Sydney University.
A. D. Kay (N.S.W.), writer of
some satirical verse, is a Sydney
Domain orator. Kit Denton
(N.G.) is with the Australian
Broadcasting Commission at
Port Moresby and was once a
laborer in a K algo or lie gold-
mine; he’s working on a cycle
of poems about Papua.
Eric Baume (N.S.W.) had a
short-story in The Bulletin in
1918, when he was a lad, but has
only lately begun to write verse.
After a long and eventful news-
paper career he retired from
journalism recently and is now a
radio-commentator and novel-
writer.
Ethel Anderson (mentioned as
a story-writer) has had verse
published widely in English,
Indian and American as well as
in Australian journals, is repre-
sented in more than 20
anthologies, and has published
two books of verse, Squatter’s
Luck and Sunday at Yanalumla.
Another of the women story-
writers, E. M. England (Q.), has
had two books of verse pub-
lished, The Happy Monarch and
Queensland Days. Llywelyn
Lucas, born at Harkaway (Vic.),
lives in Queensland ; her books
of verse are The Garden and
On Wings.
Ruth Bedford (N.S.W.) wrote
two novels in collaboration with
Dorothea Mackellar, several
books of verse, and the
biography of her grandfather,
Sir Alfred Stephen, reviewed on
the Red Page in last week’s
Bulletin.
Gloria Rawlinson (N.Z.) had
a small book of verse published
when she was 14, and two years
later a larger collection, The
Perfume Vendor. With W. Hart
Smith she was co-editor of the
1951 Jindyworobak Anthology,
an issue which included N.Z.
poems. She also edited (writing
the biographical introduction)
Houses by the Sea, a collection
of the later poems of “Robin
Hyde.”
Helen Shaw (N.Z.), born in
Timaru, has recently taken to
sending verse from
across the Tasman.
Una Auld (N.S.W.),
whom The Bulletin
knew in former
years as Una Currie,
has N.Z. affiliations.
Una Currie’s first
Bulletin verse had
to do with the joys of
surfing; she bought
herself a surfboard
with the proceeds.
The Bulletin
suspects that the
writer who signs her
(or his) work “Hui
Te Rangiora” also
has a link with New
Zealand, because of
the pen-name. So
far it has been
unable to establish
the real identity of
this poet.
School teachers
include Lucy Craigie
(N.S.W.), who writes
as “E. Cee”; Thea
Astley (N.S.W.),
who, born in Bris-
bane and a teacher
in Queensland
country schools, is
now with the N.S.W.
Education Depart-
ment ; and Pamela
West (N.S.W.), who
is just starting her
career as a teacher,
and who was in her
fifth year at Tam-
worth (N.S.W.) High
School when The Bulletin
accepted a poem of hers in 1953.
Dorothy Auchterlonie (N.S.W.)
has been teacher, reporter and
member of the A.B.C. news-staff.
She is the wife of H. M. Green,
poet, critic and noted authority
on Australian literature.
First Bulletin contribution
of Olive Pell (librarian at the
Engineering School at Perth
University) was “Monte Bello,”
reprinted in the anthology
Australia Writes. Jean J.
Laidlaw (Q.) is a dental-nurse ;
her first Bulletin acceptance,
“On the Hillside,” was printed
in 1952.
Mena Kashmiri Abdullah
(N.S.W.) was born at Bundarra
and spent her childhood
there on her father’s sheep-
farm. At present she is a clerk
with C.5.1.R.0. in Sydney. Her
father came from the Punjab to
Australia before Federation;
later her mother came from
Kashmir.
Irene Gough (S.A.) is the
daughter of an Oxford don who
came here to go on the land.
She was an Adelaide journalist,
married, lived on a River Murray
houseboat, was for some time in
the Flinders Range, and then
settled at Mem Merna (S.A.).
With her husband she made a
collection of native stone-
artifacts for the American
Museum of Natural History.
Joan M. Wise (Tas.) had her
Bulletin poem “Home of
Pioneers” published in Jindy-
worobak A nthology. Ethel -
Davies (W-A.) was born in Corn-
wall, and lived on the W.A. gold-
fields. She retired recently after
a long business career. A book
of her verse, Nought So Very
Wise, was privately printed in
1932. She has been a Bulletin
contributor since 1925.
Anne Bell (N.S.W.) stayed at
home, after leaving school, on
her family’s property in the
N.S.W. Western Division, and
did station-work alongside the
men on the place. Her first
Bulletin verse, “The Idlers,”
appeared in 1946.
Rila Kemp (N.S.W.) comes
from a pioneer Kempsey
(N.S.W.) family, lived in the
Queensland cattle-country, and
is a graduate of Queensland
University. During World War
II she was an officer in the
A.W.A.S. She writes a lot for
American markets.
E. Norman (N.S.W.) has been
florist, frock-shop manageress,
cook and waitress in a road-
house, orchard-hand and private-
secretary.
Last April The Bulletin
printed a poem “The Mighty
March of Trees” by Phyllis
Gurney Meek (N.S.W.), which
reminded someone in the office
that there had been a poetess
named Phyllis Gurney Wright—
same person, marriage explaining
the change. Her father was once
headmaster of Hutchins School,
Hobart, and from a cloistered
atmosphere she moved into a
new, changing and hard world
on little farms in isolated regions.
Her first verses were hammered
out on a typewriter in a tent at
night by the light of a hurricane-
lamp. Phyllis Meek now lives
at Collaroy (N.S.W.).
Betty Martyn (Vic.) lives at
Fish Creek (South Gippsland)
and comes from a farming
family. Her first Bulletin
venture was in 1927. Gwen
Weston (N.S.W.), wife of a
Sydney bank-manager, is a great-
great-granddaughter of Rebecca
Oates, first white child bom in
Australia. She describes herself
as an “ordinary housewife,” and
another Sydney housewife has
written as “1.C.E.”
Pixie O’Harris (N.S.W.) is the
well-known writer and illustrator
of children’s books, and Robin
Pratt is her daughter.
Looking round a bit further
(there are still sure to be some
omissions that are hereby
apologised for, and to, in
advance) here are a few more:
Jim Hodge (“John Gilmore’*)
was a New Guinea plantation-
manager and is now a Sydney
journalist. Randolph Stow (19)
is an undergraduate at Perth Uni-
versity. A. H. Wilkie (Q.), who
, wrote an excellent story aj:out
the canefields, “A Good Man
With Horses” (B. 25/ 8/ ’54), is a
sugarcane-grower.
Mrs. Ainslie Bartholomew
(Ainslie Anderson) lives on Pine
Creek Station, which straddles
the S.A.-N.S.W. border. P. J.
Heenan (Q.) has been a cane-
cutter, a door-to-door salesman
and a stationmaster, and Kevin
McAuliffe, another • Queens-
lander, works for Brisbane City
Council.
lan Stewart, a New Zealander,
now living in Melbourne, was a
Canberra correspondent for the
“S. M. Herald” and was in
Korea, Japan and Hong Kong
for A.A.P.-Reuter.
Pausing at this point to look
back over what is, by any com-
parison, a really extraordinary
list of contemporary story-
writers and poets for one paper
to be able to name among its
regular or occasional contri-
butors, it is found that even
now something like a dozen more
could be listed —new ones who
have made their debut too
recently for checking-up just who
they are and what they do.
And, though all the ones so
far noted in this survey are poets
and storytellers, an author-
contributor outside that particu-
lar range for whom there must
be a niche here is naturalist Alec
Chisholm, who, under his own
and various pen-names, writes
of birds and green places, of
lost explorers, and of strange
and curious events in our his-
tory. His love of birds dates
back to his boyhood when he
roamed the ironbark hills back
of Maryborough (Vic.). He was
a close friend of C. J. Dennis,
“The Sentimental Bloke” ; these
days he’s editing a new edition
of The Australian Encyclopcedia
for Angus and Robertson.
And then, bridging things
back again, there’s Frank
Middlemiss (N.S.W.), who had
his first story accepted by the
old “Lone Hand,” and in 1922,
due to the encouragement and
help of John Bede Dailey, broke
into The Bulletin. Middlemiss
comes from a Bradford (Eng.)
wool-manufacturing family, and
has been, among other things,
a shed-hand, waiter, and window-
cleaner —“a programme, as I
have since realised, not greatly
conducive to one’s material
advancement,” he once com-
mented, “but with a flavor to
remember.”
1951
Illustration to “The Letters of Rachel Henning."


fg
1
; & :
Iftr#""'
m
mm
9
■
75
YEARS
Like The Bulletin , Angus & Robertson take pride in being
able to foster Australian writing ... in enormously increasing
tbe number of Australian writers whose work is published
each year ... and in helping to make tbeir work known all
over tbe world. We congratulate The Bulletin on seventy-five
years of service to Australian writers and readers.
• ) . . , • ■ .. ,• ■
SOME BULLETIN AUTHORS WHOSE WORK HAS BEEN PUBLISHED BY A. &
R.
Ethel Anderson
Barcroft Boake
Chris Brennan
Gavin Casey
Zora Cross
Frank Dalhy Davison
Victor Daley
C. J. Dennis
Rosemary Dohson
Elenrietta Drake-Brockman
Edward Dyson
M. H. Ellis
John Farrell
R. D. Fitz Gerald
Joseph Furphy
Mary Gilmore
W. Hart-Smith
William' Hatfield
T. A. G. Hungerford
lon Idriess
Eve Langley
Henry Lawson
Norman Lindsay
Hugh McCrae
Ronald McCuaig
Nan McDonald
Kenneth Mackenzie
Shaw Neilson
Will H. Ogilvie
Vance Palmer
A. B. Paterson
R. S. Porteous
Katharine Susannah Prichard
i Roderic Quinn
Steele Rudd
Douglas Stewart
E. V. Timms
Francis Wehb
David McKee Wright
Judith Wright
BOOKS BY THESE AUTHORS NOW AVAILABLE
DUSTY
By Frank Dalby Davison
In this Look the famous autkor of
Children of the Dark People and Man-Shy
gives us another great animal classic, portray-
ing the life of Dusty, and the Australian sheep
dog, with rare sympathy and understanding.
13/6 (post 7d.)
FOURTEEN MEN
by Mary Gilmore
In this new collection of verses the 'grand
old lady of Australian poetry” writes as a
woman and mother, lyricist and halladist,
revealing that characteristic liveliness of mind
and breadth of experience that have so enriched
her poetry. 13/- (post 5d.)
SOWERS OF THE WIND
by T. A. G. Hungerford
A penetrating study of Occupied Japan,
as seen through the eyes of a group of Aus-
tralian soldiers—from their first speculative,
unemotional sight of the Japanese coast to
their very different departure. Winner of the
1949 S.M.H. Literary Competition.
16/- (post 7d.)
WHITE TOPEE
by Eve Langley
Primarily the story of wanderings around
Gippsland—of lakes and farms and forests,
tea plantations and Australians and Italians
working side by side—and of the girl Steve,
loving wildly, revelling in hard work, music
and poetry. •• 16/- (post 7d.)
THE MAGIC PUDDING
by Norman Lindsay
This classic for children, like Alice in
Wonderland, possesses originality and humour
that will delight its owner long after child-
hood has been left behind. All the pictures
(many in colour) are true Lindsay art.
15/- (post ed.)
THE LONELY FIRE
by Nan McDonald
An outstanding Australian poet, Miss
McDonald reveals a subtle and skilful hand-
ling of the Australian land and seascape,
translated into exquisite imagery, as well as a
deep humanity and a steadfast affirmation
of Christian values. 15/- (post 5d.)
THE COLLECTED VERSES OF
A. B. PATERSON
With their tales of hush life and adven-
ture, their humour and irony, “Banjo” Pater-
son s ballads are as fresh to-day as they ever
were. 1 hey stand for something authentic
and infinitely precious in the Australian
tradition. 15/- (post 5d.)
ON OUR SELECTION AND OUR NEW
SELECTION
by Steele Rudd
Almost legendary stories of Australian
farming pioneers. More than 50 years ago
The Bulletin said of Steele Rudd: “He takes
as a writer of humorous prose the place which
A. B. Paterson holds as a writer of humorous
ve rse.” 15/- (post 7d.)
SUN ORCHIDS AND OTHER POEMS
by Douglas Stewart
Poems of the earth*—the scents and sounds
of hush, sun and water; and of the sea—bril-
liant, witty and significant, exploring regions
far beyond the surface of reality. Illustrated
with unusual pen drawings by Norman
Lindsay. 15/- (post 7d.)
THE FURY
by E. V. Timms
A dramatic Australian historical novel
in w’hich we follow the adyentures of 17-year-
old Sally Lome as she faces with courage the
turmoil and fury of those incredible years that
culminated in the slaughter of Eureka.
16/- (post 9d.)
You’ll find these, and all the books you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - LONDON - WELLINGTON
V : . G'.' \ ' t
sd
*4&]
on<-
mm


style has influenced Australian
speech and writing, so Bulletin
art has influenced Australian
vision. One remembers Henry
Parkes and the circular George
Reid rather from “Hop” cartoons
than from photographs. Aus-
tralian small boys and city
larrikins are Norman Lindsay
boys and Lindsay and Tom
Durkin larrikins.
For all manner of purposes—
some of them (and the searchers)
weird and wonderful —people go
through the files today in search
of drawings: there is no facet
of Australian life which has not
been accurately set down in
black-and-white in those pages,
and today, as always, if an artist
slips in his depiction of some
quaint item of attire or bush
machinery, or has a character
sitting a tractor wrongly or
ploughing a paddock with the
wrong sort of plough, a lusty
chorus of Australian voices
demands to know whys
After Archibald resigned the
editorship, James Edmond filled
the position, followed by S. H.
Prior, under whose leadership as
editor and managing-director the
paper, in 1931, moved to its.
present building at 252 George-
street. J. E. Webb became fifth
editor in 1933, retiring in 1948,
when the present editor, David
Adams, succeeded him.
S. H. Prior conceived and
directed The Bulletin com-
petitions for pfrize novels, and,
since the ’thirties, the paper has
printed serially some fine Aus-
tralian novels, not all of them
entered for competitions or prize-
winners.
From time to time superficial
critics have sought to demon-
strate that The Bulletin’s
influence is harmful to Aus-
tralian letters —that there is
a prototype which can be
labelled “Bulletin sht>rt-
story” or “Bulletin poem,” and
that, by intangibly “specifying”
what its requirements are, the
paper limits the scope of writers.
This, as the most cursory
glance through the paper at even,
say, five-yearly periods will show,
is plainly absurd. Different
editors (being only human) have
preferences for various types of
material, but there has been no
period in Bulletin history when
published material in
any sphere has been all
of one predominant
kind.
In the 1890’s, when
the bush balladists were
at their most prolific,
Daley and Quinn,
O’Dowd and Chris
Brennan, Frank Morton
and Arthur H. Adams
(to name only a few of
the poets) were all pub-
lished with much the
same degree of emphasis
and quite impartially.
There were short-stories
of the city, short-stories
of the bush, short-
stories of the South Seas
(and not all of these by
Louis Becke), all repre-
sented in any one year.
It has seemed to this
writer, however, that
The Bulletin of the
1890’s and for another
decade os so was, if
anything, too embrac-
ing in its tastes. For
example, you will find
the best work of a man
like Victor Daley over-
shadowed by his
shoddy; and also, in
going through the older
files, one tends to over-
look excellent pieces
because items published
with similar pride, of
place in the paper have
been merely slick and
stereotyped, if not
mediocre.
Taking Victor Daley
as a case in point, he
published upwards of
50 traceable items of
verse in 1905, under
several pen-names or
signed, and very few of
them are worth republishing or
preserving. After his death,
stories, articles and verse by him
continued to be published for
more than 10 years! Worst of
all, his good work suffered from
tarnishing by his second-rate
efforts —it lost integrity.
Now this was not done by
Daley (and others) at the request
of The Bulletin ; it was, rather,
that the writers of the period
demanded that the paper should
provide, willy-nilly, a steady
source of income, and the
manner in which some of the
authors regarded their own less-
worthy efforts is indicated by
their pen-names, their less-
commendable pieces being often
signed by a name which renders
them identifiable only with diffi-
culty. Daley, for instance, would
use neither his own name nor
“Creeve Roe” for certain trivia
of his contrivance.
The Bulletin has changed to
meet changing times. It would
be quite extraordinary had it not.
Certain things—the friendly
office atmosphere; the fact that
no issue of the paper has ever
been delayed due to industrial
troubles—remain constant. But
features come and go.
There are people who regret
the passing of the pages of
theatrical gossip, but the theatres
and actors who provided material
for such pages right in Mel-
bourne and Sydney, not at
Elstree or Hollywood, have
vanished. Again, weekly news-
papers no longer need give
summarised news to the extent
necessary before broadcast news-
services and good mails.
Syndicated “art” and articles
(which do not appear in The
Bulletin) and the overseas-
produced movies have tended
to shape and standardise the out-
look of the reading and entertain-
ment-seeking public—probably
as great a subservience to Holly-
wood as that of Sydney to
London ideas of which Archibald
complained in the 1880’s.
As further points, some
features, such as “Service-
departments,” are less in demand
since reference-library facilities
have spread to nearly all country
areas, even the
most remote. Tastes
in humor, too, have
altered and reading
habits changed.
The Bulletin
today finds itself
intensely occupied
in maintaining
Australian political
and cultural
thought at an adult
national level at a
time when syndi-
cated “c ull ur e”
and pressure-group
politics are the
common enemy of
the common man’s
thinking and self-
expression.
It is not easy to
make contem-
porary judgments,
but one would
not feel unduly ?ash in
prophesying that, in another 75
years’ time, the 1955 Bulletin
will prove to have been as
1933
"Here, why are you making faces at that bulldog ?”
"He began it."
outstanding and unusual in its
character, as completely inde-
pendent and individualistic,
as was the 1880 one, and,
from the point of view of the
researcher disinclined to wade
through irrelevanties, will
disclose its treasures more easily.
Within even a week it was
obvious to all the practisers of
cant, the hiders of humbug, the
professional veneerers of public
and semi-private life, that there
was a wolf in the fold. No
reputation was safe from
criticism, no scene safe from the
searchlight. Even his Excellency
Lord Loftus, having gone
unshaven for a day or two, could
not have an undignified alterca-
1916
NOT TO BLAME
Mrs. COCKY: "It’ll be out silver weddin’ next week, John.
Will we kill the pig ?”
JOHN: “Wot’s the good o’ murderin’ the pig for what took place
twenty-five years ago ?”
tion with the local barber with-
out finding the details recorded
in derision.
The Reverend Mr. Frank
Warden, a baptiser who believed
in thoroughness in the washing-
out of sin, was accosted at
Foley’s Baths one Sunday early
in January, 1880, by a polite
gentleman “having all the
appearance of a low hireling of
a corrupt and venal press.” A
few days afterwards he picked
up the new journal to discover
that the hymn of the day given
out —“No. 1880” —had begun:
All ye who’d like to be clean and Holy
Should patronise our good friend
Foley.
He read how “Frank Warden’s
baptismal material” had consisted
of “three or four females and
half a dozen others whom I took
as belonging to the third or
neuter gender.” He saw himself
described in all his holiness as
“an amphibious devil dodger,”
whose operations in baptism of
ladies were “saving Danny
Mann and the Colleen Bawn....
the nearest to wilful murder I
ever had the pleasure of witness-
ing,” while one of his prize
exhibits was represented as
possessed of extremities
“peculiarly adapted for swim-
ming, as well as for the exter-
mination of cockroaches and
other particular purposes which
I need not particularly refer to.”
The effusion was signed “The
Man in the Bottomless Pit” ; and
when Mr. Warden shook his
umbrella in the street at a
Bulletin newsboy the paper
confirmed the nature of its
vigorous geniality by painting,
him to the life in that act.
It is not surprising that The
Bulletin had a distinct impact
on the social life and customs
of Australia in a very short time ;
that it was, as Mr. George
Dibbs said of it when he was
interviewed among the comforts
of Darlinghurst jail (following
an accidental collision with the
libel law), “the only paper the
warders try to steal.”
Mr. Dibbs himself was a
symbol of the times. A tough
colonial politician, he had had
adventurous training on the
South American coast, and
had endured the vicissitudes
via which most politicians
of the day seemed to
attain maturity—namely, by
going through the courts. At
the time of the interview men-
tioned he was in the Darlinghurst
institution at the instance of a
fellow-M.L.A., and there, in the
green plot of garden before his
dungeon, The Bulletin drew
him, turning over its pages at his
ease in a deck-chair.
There Mr. Dibbs rusticated in
the lap of luxury, supplied with
delicacies and wines by
sympathising friends, including
even “a fine catch of snapper”
taken in the dawn out by the
Sydney Heads, entertaining his
friends (including The
Bulletin’s representative), and
waited on by obsequious warders
as if they had been trained to
the table in Lord Rosebery’s
household.
There, in fact, he fattened
himself body and soul to become
Treasurer of New South Wales,
in three years’ time, and its first
democratic and Protectionist
Premier —or Prime Minister,
rather —a decade later.
The Bulletin’s field of
action, in fact, was peopled by
such men as Dibbs, not to
mention the Great Hi Ham (as it
early dubbed Sir Henry Parkes);
John Robertson and his per-
forming horse, which took him
safely home in an alcoholic
dream; theshen immature, but
soon discovered, “Jawbone”
Nield ; a youthful George Reid;
and all the pomposity and
pugilism of the City Council,
whose “colossal building” was
going up on the graveyard site
“regardless of expense and
aesthetic considerations,” so that
the worshipful body might “hold
their deliberations and lunch in
it once a fortnight at the rate-
payers’ expense.”
When Alderman McElhone
slogged Alderman Garrett in the
eye and Alderman Garrett
replied smartly to the “sneezer,”
The Bulletin duly reported the
rounds in appropriate style.
When Alderman McElhone gave
cayenne lozenges to children to
enjoy the joke of watching them
splutter, the great public came to
know of it —amid reports of
cricket-matches in which Dave
Gregory took 2 for 45, and
Tom Garrett 5 for 66, and
Charlie Bannerman 4 for 24,
without being called typhoons.
It was very largely under the
paper’s influence, penetrating
into every shuddering drawing-
room and aldermanic sanctum,
stolen by coppers and postmen
en route (as depicted in an early
issue), and read in the bars of
the pubs which it advertised with
grim determination as a much-
needed source of revenue and
inspiration, that a better Aus-
tralia evolved. All the time The
Bulletin was at its heels,
dogging it on to better things.


|§ '?' V ' % '■
mi
, -v V
?>&i
-
* v
■3j
£:•: « .: <
xw* m - '
«
i*-yj :j f&
*o«r : *,•: ::
® «
sBS*&
ass
1 llMwiMiii
¥ ...:., S:
v %
M
mi
fSm
' V f,* *S
t :iC®a!
' .V- •.-.- <OvXX»C .
; f k I
p::.;
: ¥;:v.
m
tm< am:
m
*:ii
mam
mm
WM
■^S^OwWiWooflij
m
<*2.
S ki
885
®SSBK
•; :.V-
SfK?
S¥f*
i<V - * >
PM
mm
il
■:>:•: s?®ss
':■:■¥■
«i«il
Wmuß* EEmwme 9 ym&r Car 9
As the breadwinner you work hard to provide your family with
every ounce of material welfare you can afford, doing your utmost
to keep them happy, healthy and secure —that’s as long as you live!
Is that enough? Of course it’s not, if you want for them a secure
future, because you know there is the troubling possibility that
you may not always be here to look after them ...
Plan now for the future security of your family with an M.L.C.
Family Income Policy which will provide for a guaranteed
monthly income for your dependants. This policy offers the
greatest life assurance cover for the premium you can afford. Here
are the actual benefits provided by an M.L.C. Family Income
(Scale 3) Policy upon death within the selected family income
period of up to 20 years.
(1) Full amount of policy plus bonuses.
(2) Guaranteed Monthly Income for balance of the selected
period.
Should the policy holder survive the period for family income
benefits the policy continues as a general life policy.
and YOU-
The M.L.C. also offers variations
of these family income benefits
—particulars will be readily
supplied without obligation on
request.
Contact the nearest M.L.C.
\
Office or Representative for
further details of this Plan.
H 0
BE WELL ADVISED BY THE M.L.C. MAN
ML49./FP
The
V
IJUI
' (incorporated in M. S. If.)
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS’
Assurance Co. Limited


Behind the Banking Scenes
Keepers of Your Cash
By GRAHAM PHILLIPS
MY father was a bank-
manager and always
called himself a “high-
priest in the temple of
the modern God.” Even as a
boy I thought this sanctimonious,
and that high-priest smacked of
mock-modesty; but looking back
I don’t blame him. For his
singular worries a banker has
little but his pride to repay him.
When he joined the bank
(1898) my father’s fares cost
more than he earned. But my
grandmother, a howling snob,
felt it worth her while to under-
write his fares and food.
Most white-collar workers, at
one time or another, have cause
to ponder the imponderables of
prestige versus pocket. But the
bank-manager today, to my
mind, is an almost perfect
example of a man who holds a
responsible position at a financial
sacrifice.
Why is the bank-manager so
much respected? “Because,” «
says Andre Maurois, “he knows
everybody else’s business.”
Fiddlesticks! The reason is that
you might need him some time.
Being respected, especially on
a small salary, can be uncom-
fortable. His own ledgers tell the
banker he earns less than the
doctor or solicitor; yet the same
genteel vagueness about his own
money is expected of him. Build-
ing up their branches sometimes
forces bankers into alcoholism
and debt. Perhaps, too, years of
being pernickety about everyone
else’s money generate a need for
a personal blowout.
More clearly than most people,
the banker sees the evils of
inflation: it is perhaps for this
reason that he’s been last to jump
on the post-war merry-go-round.
My dad called the Bank Officers’
Association a “trade-union with
a white-collar name.” It is now
claiming increases to enable
bankers to live in the style to
which they’ve been accustomed.
This is a test-case for all clerks.
Judging character for a living
is hard work. You’d be surprised
at the nerve-straining extent to
which a banker works on his
instincts. He must judge people
by what they are; not by what
they own. Under Labor Govern-
ments the Commonwealth Bank
was given a head-start that has
a faintly Socialistic flavor, and
which a change of Government
did little to correct. The trading
banks are more personal than
any State-run colossus. It
would be a pity if they were
squashed. Already, central
CQntrol of credit has curtailed
the discretion of the trading
banks rather severely.
It’s better for a banker to
remain a fallible human than to
become an . infallible, buck-
passing, non-risk-taking civil-
servant. True, when my father
made his first unsecured loan at
Uki, on the N.S.W. North Coast,
he haunted the debtor until
repayment was made. This,
however, is better than not mak-
ing the loan at all. Knowing it
to be his first branch, Tweed
Riverites, including the debtor,
joked about his stage-fright. One
feels that a civil-servant would
merely have avoided my father’s
predicament by saying “No,”
and hurrying off for a cup of
tea.
It’s extraordinary what a
bank-manager will put up
with ... so long as he can say
smugly to the ledgerkeeper,
“Yes, I knew about that.”
Don’t say your account will be
in credit next week if you mean
next month. Obvious advice?
Brainy people ignore it.
Managers have to explain their
overdrafts (customers’) in weekly
returns. Promise-breakers make
a manager look a fool. Besides,
managers have to foot the bill
for their mistakes.
Bank-managers like to be put
in the picture, otherwise they
feel hurt. You’d be surprised
how bank-managers worry over
their customers’ affairs. They
often show real and practical
sympathy for a man struggling
to start a business on not-quite-
enough capital.
Panicking at the tail-end of
dhe depression, my parents
drafted me into the bank, though
it was a vocation for which I
was patently unsuited. For one
thing, I couldn’t add.
Chance sent me first to the
branch on the premises of which
I had been born 16 years earlier,
when my father had been
manager there. My main job
was to keep the Teller’s Book.
This was such a book as Moses
might have brought down from
Mount Sinai. It contained many
additions, for it was very large.
You entered a customer’s
deposit, then split it into its
components: cash, city-cheques,
country-cheques, etc.
There was an inviolate column
for each and the bank’s
geography was whimsical. In
Sydney addresses, Pyrmont was
“city,” whereas Burwood was
“country.” Having grown up
in the country I once asked the
ledgerkeeper whether Campsie
was on the Hawkesbury River.
“No, Campsie is on the Nile,”
he said. This retort kept me
awake at night.
Thin-lipped, the manager
would emerge from his office,
survey the un-added Teller’s
Book, look at the clock and say:
“It is now ten-to-eleven; you
should have this book added by
eleven.” This threat addled my
brain to sub-moronic levels, and
I would stare mournfully at the
Teller’s Book, listening, as though
hypnotised, to the customers’
small-talk With the teller.
There was an adding-machine,
but, for some reason, to use it
except for the incoming and out-
going remittances was de trop.
I later found this ban also to
exist in Canadian banks. Has
Mr. Burroughs lived in vain?
I would sneak into the strong-
room to hide the tears of neurotic
adolescence. I felt I was be-
fouling the glorious reputation
my father had left in the bank.
After five weeks the manager
made a request to head-office
that I be sent, or transported, to
some other branch.
The manager of this new
branch was kind; very. I still
think of him and his staff with
gratitude and affection. They
understood that modern educa-
tion concentrates on quadratic-
equations to the exclusion of
addition and spelling. Gradually
they babied me into a reluctant
ability to add up the Teller’s
Book and to balance its hydra-
headed columns with the teller’s
cash, the remittance, the journal
and sundry other balance-ees.
Still, I think it was a mercy I
left the bank before reaching
tellership and having to account
for mistakes in hard dough.
There is the chestnut concern-
ing a woman whose bank-
manager called her into his
office and tactfully pointed out
that she was £5 overdrawn. The
woman is supposed to have
offered him a cheque for £5 in
settlement, and been unable
to understand the manager’s
polite embarrassment over this
mode of payment.
Though not many people
today are so conveniently
obtuse, few have any clear
notion of how their cheques fly
back, like homing vultures, to be
debited to their accounts.
This happens: The remit-
tance (i.e., the bunch of cheques
drawn on other banks) is sent
by unregistered mail to the head-
office of the bank. It is quite
safe to post it unregistered,
because the teller has stamped
the cheques as he receives them,
thus rendering them not
negotiable and valueless. An
adding-machine slip (which
banking etiquette here permits)
is included with the remittance,
giving the branch’s version of
its total.
Received in head-office, the
remittance is passed to
“Exchanges.” This is a depart-
ment entirely devoted to
exchanging cheques with other
banks. Work in it is considered
by bank-clerks to be a harrow-
ing and thankless job, since they
there gain no general-banking
experience, but (ironically) punch
adding-machines all day with
intervals of scuttling to and
from the banks’ clearing-house.
This latter activity is a dramatic
business, even punctuated with
occasional arrests.
Exchanges balances the remit-
tance with the branch that sent
it in, then sorts it into its various
banks: ’Wales, Commonwealth,
C.8.A., etc. It is then machined-
up and again balanced with
several other things; I forget
what. All this is a race against
time, particularly at the end of
the month, when the work is
quadrupled by people paying
bills.
The crisis draws near. All
banks meet three times daily to
exchange their cheques at the
clearing-house. The times are
fixed and are sternly enforced.
The clearing-house manager is
supposed to lock the doors of the
clearing-house at the specified
times. Mostly, when a bank is
late, he merely advances, swing-
ing his keys like the eunuch
guarding the harem in
“Scheherazade,” and glares
angrily into the Corridor: it
causes too much all-round
inconvenience to lock-out a
bank.
In Sydney, both corridor and
clearing-house are situated not
in the Commonwealth Bank
building, but, most un-
Socialistically, in that of the
Bank of New South Wales.
The clearing-house manager
is always a retired bank-
manager, selected, I should think,
for his ability to ignore noise.
Bank-clerks en masse are not
nearly so genteel as is commonly
supposed. In my day the
clearing-house manager was a
Mr. Button. I was terrified of
him because I was often late.
Rushing to “catch the house,”
bank-clerks, both male and
female, are sometimes stopped
by the police. By the time it
reaches the delta of Exchanges
the remittance has swollen to a
point where it fills more than one
large suitcase. It is easy for a
bank-clerk to knock down a
ferocious old lady with his suit-
case of cheques. There used,
too, to be a cop at Martin-place
who specialised in booking
demented bank-clerks crossing
against his signal in order “to
catch the house.” The Com-
monwealth Bank was the only
one that paid its employees’
fines.
Part of the clearing-house
noise comes from clerks shriek-
ing out at each other to know
which bank takes what. There
used, many years ago, to be a
nervous clerk representing the
Q.N. Bank. “Hey! Q.N.—do
you take cascara?” he once was
asked. “Er . . . let me see . . . ”
At the end of each day the
banks meet again to decide how
much they owe each other. More
bedlam: “What d’ you make it,
’Wales?” etc. At the end of the
week the banks settle with each
other by exchanging slips of
paper. Though the totals on
these warrants sometimes look
like the national debt, they seem
in the long run to even-out. I
never understood why.
Having passed through the
clearing-house the cheque then
goes through the whole process
in reverse, and finally bears
relentlessly down upon the
account of the customer who
drew it. The ledgerkeeper
“reads” the dates, endorsements
and signatures of his cheques and
ensures that the amount in figures
agrees with that in words.
Probably, and somewhat,
curiously, the job to which he
devotes the least attention is the
checking of the signatures. It
seems to me that forgery is a
branch of crime which felons
tend to overlook. It is just as
well. A ledgerkeeper sent to an
unfamiliar branch of his bank
has his work cut out to read the
customers’ signatures at all, with-
out worrying whether they are
genuine. This is possibly a
trade-secret which it is unwise to
give away, but I assume no
felons, read The Bulletin.
If the customer has not
sufficient money in his account
to cover the cheque, and no
arrangement has been made for
this sad contingency, the ledger-
keeper “refers” the cheque to
the manager.
Most managers will go to
extraordinary lengths to avoid
spoiling a customer’s credit by
dishonoring his cheque. If the
customer is reliable he will hold
the cheque until the bank shuts
at three-o’clock. If the customer
has still failed to pay-in, the
manager will usually mutter a
few ritual curses, pay the
cheque and hope for the best.
If the customer is overdrawn
as much as the manager dares
allow without security the
manager will already have
phoned him or even saliied forth
into the town to look for him
and ask him to pay-in before
three-o’clock. Three-o’clock is
the “deadline” for dishonors;
it’s illegal to “hold” a cheque
in the safe overnight, neither
debiting the customer nor post-
ing it back whence it came. If
he feels that the customer will
“come good” next day the
manager must take a personal
chance on it.
Of course, cheques are also
dishonored for technical reasons:
being post-dated, wrongly
endorsed or, more picturesquely,
stale. A stale cheque is one more
than a year old. Every New
Year there’s a spate of stale
cheques until people get used to
the change, but the junior clerk
is usually sent out to get the
customer to alter and initial
them.
Managers often have a soft
spot for customers trying to
build-up a new business with not
quite enough capital. They will
then clutch at the slightest of
technical reasons for dishonor-
ing a cheque which has not been
“met.” By a hypersensitivity
about the cheque’s endorsement
it’s often easy to find a legal
loophole for dishonoring the
pheque, and thus stall for time.
This is better for the customer
than writing on the back of the
cheque the damning answer
“Present Again,” or the even
more knell-like “Refer to
Drawer.” •
In retrospect I am more than
ever amazed at the worry a
bank-manager will accept on his
customers’ behalf. Should he
make a grave mistake in assessing
a man, or even should terribly
bad luck overtake the customer,
the manager lands in the soup.
The soup usually consists of a
remote country town with few
inhabitants and a diabolical
climate.
However, once a customer has
proved himself a promise-
breaker and a liar, the bank will
refuse to give him another
cheque-book. X remember an
exasperated manager informing
an especially silly and insolvent
woman: “Look, Mrs. So-and-so,
your cheques have been coming
in like flies!”
The nastiest and shortest
letter I ever read from a manager
to a customer was “Dear Sir,
Please see me.... Manager.”
Once upon a time banks used
never to admit having made a
mistake. Nowadays, however,
when a teller is “out” in his cash,
he looks through his deposit-
slips till he finds something his
teller’s instinct boggles at. He
rings-up the customer and things
are usually set to rights.
This is, of course, much better
for both teller and customer.
Occasionally, however, the teller
drops quite a large sum of
money. Some banks make-up
their tellers’ losses ; some do not.
Embezzling tellers still crop-up
from time to time. Jt is, how-
ever, more difficult to embezzle
successfully than it used to be.
This is because with each swindle
another loophole in the bank’s
system is painstakingly blocked-
up. So many horses have
escaped that the stable-door is
now pretty firmly locked.
Commonest tellers’ tempta-
tion (and managers’ too) is the
“sure thing” at the races (so
easy to just pop it back on
Monday). Choosing a day at
random the manager counts the
cash once a week. In most
branches there is too much cash
to be counted in full. The
manager counts as much as he
can of it note by note, tots-up the
remaining bundles of notes and
sometimes weighs them. Weigh-
ing bundles of notes is a surpris-
ingly accurate check—except,
possibly, with beer-logged notes
from the local pub.
On top of these precautions
inspectors arrive from head-
office at intervals, always, of
course, without warning. Tellers
are also made to swap branches
with each other, also without
warning.
In banks throughout the
world the first duty each morn-
ing is the “call-over.” The
junior clerk calls all cheques and
credits for the previous day to
the manager, who ticks the
ledgerkeeper’s working. Some-
times a mistake slips past, and
then there is “a hunt” at the
(Continued on page 50)


u
&.1X 1720
Tradition takes time
*•
Tlie Royal Exchange Assurance, a virile organisation of
truly British character,. has heen growing steadily for two
hundred and thirty-five years with an unbroken tradition of
integrity and leadership recognised throughout the world.
The Corporation has deep roots in this great Continent and
compliments the Sydney Bulletin on the Seventy-fifth
Anniversary of its publication as a journal of character,
traditionally and essentially Australian in its caustic wit
and commonsense.
Sugal feeding?
v' ; ' ..T. . a 1 , . , i *v ..
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
Australian Head Office: 75-77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Alone, alone, all, all alone?
Flight of the
ALBATROSS
“And *a good south wind
sprung up behind;
The Albatross did follow,
And every day, for food or
play,
Came to the mariners f hollo!”
“God save thee, ancient
Mariner!
From the Rends that plague
Whyl.ook’st 'thou so?” “With
my cross-bow
l shot the Albatross ”
By OLAF RUHEN
■™JP IME was wher any ship's
/ complement nras not com-
C j plete without a poet, a
novelist, or at the very
least an embryo autobiographer
leaning over the stern-rail and
watching the albatrosses. Every
evening he would linger there
until the moon illumined the
wake, and then rush off to his
cabin, set the oil-lamp in its
gimbals, and write eulogies to
that effortless flight.
According to those observa-
tions which have survived, the
great birds followed the ship day
after day, week after week,
month after month with hardly
the flicker of a wingtip; for the
poets ignored completely those
less aesthetic moments that fol-
lowed the tipping of galley refuse
over the leeward rail.
Some of the seaborne literati
still follow the practice ; but those
among them who travel on the
great liners have to lean heavily
on their imaginations. Except
for brief <- and unimpressive
periods the birds don’t follow
them —not from any paucity of
stomach-filling refuse, but simply
because they haven’t the speed
to keep up.
Sooner or later it had to be
written. While he remained
ignorant of the principles of
flight man could, in all
innocence, extol the heavy virtues
of the most awkward and under-
powered bird to cross the great
oceans. With understanding,
however, the albatross must be
relegated to its rightful place.
As a navigator it is superb ; as
an opportunist it can hold its
place; but as an aviator it is
easily exposed as the worst to
roam the southern oceans.
Because I am an old trawler-
man I can regard myself as the
albatrosses’ friend; but I like
to see my friends in a fair light,
where they are endeared to me
by their weaknesses as well as
their strengths; and as an ex-
aviator I can pick plenty of holes
in their flying.
+ +
As soon as the speed of ships
reached and passed 16 to 18
knots, the albatross tribe fell by
the wayside. Any good healthy
specimen can, for short periods,
hold a steep screaming glide of
perhaps 30 knots and more; but
the ancient joy of the albatross
was to ease along at six to eight
knots behind the old wind-
jammers and —especially—the
fishing fleet. In this habit it
showed poor judgment and bad
flying sense, for the low flying-
speeds were perilously close to
the point of stall. This danger
was heightened because, in its
favored flying position, ideal for
garbage-spotting, the bird coasted
along in the superstructure-
turbulence of the ship.
Superstructure-turbulence, with
its invisible rolling patterns of
air measured by the sensitive
frame of the bird, can provide an
uplift, and reduce the necessity
of using wing-muscles. In the
main, with its swiftly-shifting
patterns, it is a menace. Navy
pilots coming in to land avoid it,
because the great carriers do not
steam directly into wind, but
take it at a slight angle on the
port bow. For this reason, added
a need for additional parking-
space, the angled-deck on carriers
has come to stay.
The bird, however, loved the
hazardous turbulence, and used
it to maintain altitude ; and with
its normal proximity to the
stalling-angle it frequently fell
into a low-speed stall and
dropped squawking into the
water. As frequently it hit the
deck with a wet-sounding flop.
It matched this performance
very often by attempting to
utilise the hot air rising from the
funnels of slow steamers for a
lift, thereby reducing the need
for wing-flapping, an exercise it
avoids as much as possible.
Of all the sea-birds the
albatross is the only one which
will stall and fall out of the air
after tipping the rigging with its
wing.
Yet when it is in a braggart
mood it will perform rate-four
turns at an incredibly steep angle,
rippling the water-surface with a
wing-feather as it turns. I have
never seen it come to grief on
these occasions, for it performs
this, its only aerobatic
manoeuvre, at a safe high speed.
It never learns. The petrels,
smart and efficient on the wing,
can outfly an albatross in
distance, speed and aerobatic
ability. In particular, the little
muttonbird (which can swim
underwater with its well-muscled
wings) makes the great Royal
bird, or even the Wanderer, look
like a circus clown.
And talking of clowns, and
lest anyone defend the laziness
of the albatross on the score of
size, the great pelican of the
central latitudes, with more than
twice the weight to lift, can leave
an albatross for dead. It flies
with purpose always, and while it
undoubtedly expends more
effort, it puts on a far more
efficient performance.
One has only to watch the
albatross at take-off to realise
that here is a stupid fellow who
will never learn more than the
rudiments of flying. Although,
as stated, his stalling-angle is
encountered at below six knots
of level flight, he cannot take off
without some 1-6 to 20 knots of
wind, or additional aid. When
the wind is down below 10 knots
he tries to run along for 20 or
30 yards, his flat feet flailing the
water, to lunge off the top of a
wave. Only if the wind is 20
knots and more can he sit where
he is, spread his wings and rise
unaided. The quick thrust of
pinions that clears a gull from
the water is beyond him.
If there is no wave, a flat calm,
and a wind much below 10 knots,
he gives up the effort, and sits
alone and hungry, trying to look
as though he had no wish to fly,
anyway.
The truth seems to be that he
raises his wings initially in such
an awkward way and at such an
acute double dihedral angle as
to reduce the lift area, putting
the wing-loading up to an absurd
height just when he should most
reduce it, and presenting such an
acute angle of wing-chord to the
air stream as to necessitate an
expenditure of several times the
amount of effort as should be
necessary to make him air-
borne.
His use of flaps and air-brakes
for landing is unpolished, and as
often as not the landing gear of
his feet (locked for impact both
geometrically and mechanically,
as in the heavy bombers) .trips
him into an undignified plunge
into the fortunately yielding
water. He has never learned
from the huge and heavy swans,
who come to a slick landing on
any sort of water surface by a
pronounced use of the inner
primaries of their weight-carrying
wings as zapp-flaps, and modify
the angle of approach with the
tail-feathers used as combined
elevator and air-brakes.
+ +
A still more skilful use of such
elemental flying-controls is prac-
tised by the gannets, who can fly
into a vertical cliff-face at speed,
to land lightly in a couple of
inches of space. Or, watch in
detail a shag, lowering itself from
the air to the top of a harbor
pile. No wonder the albatross
likes empty and open spaces!
Not even a bird likes to make
such a fool of himself.
Were he a good aeronaut the
albatross would not need to
descend to the depths in which
he wallows at feeding-time. He is
not purely a garbage-eater, but
he is a bird altogether too
awkward to catch his own meals,
unless those meals are of krill,
the red whalefeed of the southern
oceans, or the other saltwater
forms of manna which the sea
provides in her seasons.
At all other times of the year,
the albatross lives by grabbing
a well-fed smaller bird by the
neck and shaking it until it has
disgorged its dinner, in the
manner of those human beings
who use fishing cormorants.
To a certain extent this habit
is practised by the lesser ocean
birds, so that it is not impossible
to see a muttonbird, say,
menaced by a black-backed gull,
who is himself Victim to a molly-
hawk, who finally delivers the
original fish to an albatross.
This system, of course, would
mean the total extinction of all
the smaller birds unless they were
blessed, as they are, with greater
powers of flight. So that it is
an act of mercy that the
albatross is as clumsy as he is.
Any smaller bird is safe from
him unless it is so well-fed that
it has difficulty in taking off.
Not, all fishermen love the
albatross. In general, trawlermen
respect him; and there is still
enough sting in the Ancient
Mariner’s warning to ensure
that, should a ship find the body
of a bedraggled albatross in the
otter-trawl, the crew will often
insist on going home and spend-
ing the rest of the day in a pub.
This is a more frequent
accident than would appear
likely, not because the albatross
can dive deep enough to get into
a trawl —no bird can, unless the
ship is operating in extremely
shallow water —but because, in
ducking his head under for
scraps from the cleaning-boards,
the albatross (and a few other
birds) may lift a careless wing
under the trawl-warp, which then
slides into the socket against the
body. The forward movement
of the warp through the water
can send the albatross down to
the otter-board as a small boy
sends a “messenger” to a kite;
and from the board the,bird is
tipped into the trawl.
However, with line-fishermen,
at least in some ports, there is a
lively dislike of the bird, and a
complete indifference to the
lesson of Coleridge’s Rime.
Albatrosses in hungry weather
try to strip the large baits from
the hooks as the set-lines go
overboard, and to avert this
waste of good hooks many a
line - fisherman catches an
albatross at the beginning of his
day and hangs him up alive at the
stern of the vessel so that his
flutterings will keep his mates
away. It is a barbarous practice,
even though the bird is usually
released after he has done the
day’s duty.
Even for the tyro, catching an
albatross is easy. And safe.
Never believe those things you
hear about the poor little cabin-
boy (vide Count von Luckner)
who was attacked by angry
albatrosses after falling into the
water. I have been pecked by a
silly albatross who fell on deck
after trying unsuccessfully to
negotiate some swaying rigging
and stay in the uplift; and I can
testify that a ducky hen is better
armed.
That slashing be.ak, for all its
appearance, is a weapon similar
in quality to the silvered wooden
swords with which they some-
times decorate period restaurants.
It takes time and patience for an
albatross to slit a ling’s belly.
+ +
To secure one of these
feathered oafs, simply stand at
the stem of a vessel travelling at
four knots and throw some fish
into the water near the bow.
The albatross will get there
shortly after all the other birds
and dip his head under just as
you come alongside, if you have
timed it right. Then you grab
him by the wing. The method
will also work with mollyhawks
and the pretty little pied Cape
pigeons, but with nothing else
that I know.
A much better way of keeping
the albatrosses off the bait, how-
ever, is to take two 61b. fish, tie
them by the heads at each end
of a 6ft. length of heavy line,
and throw them into the water
near where albatrosses are. One
bird will swallow each, and when
one fish reappears after the
resultant tug-of-war, all the
other albatrosses in the vicinity
will be immediately interested;
for there is nothing better calcu-
lated to arouse albatross interest
than a regurgitated fish.
The last you will see of the
tribe will be a squawking bevy
headed for the distant horizons
behind a fellow whose limited
flying ability is lessened by the
deadweight of a fish dangling
from the end of a line in his
beak. It is an interesting though
not instructive sight.
Many of these observations
apply to that lesser bird the
mollyhawk, who is usually
described by Sydney papers as
an albatross whenever he makes
his infrequent appearance in the
Harbor. Mollyhawks will venture
into harbors, but an albatross
seldom, if he knows what he is
about. He needs the ocean roll
for his take-off, and a land-
locked albatross, waiting for a
stiff breeze that will give lift to
his half-extended wings, is one
of Nature’s sorriest sights.
But there are days on the
open sea, when your mast is trac-
ing its mysterious script against
the pattern of a cumulus-filled
sky and the albatrosses are fol-
lowing in a dream, the Royals
and the Wanderers. They lift
and lilt, playing in the turbu-
lence, and they are the most
beautiful birds under Heaven.
A FAREWELL TO AUSTRALIA
Westward the ship, and east, beloved, are you,
But still your love accompanies me
Like this great voyaging bird
The albatross
That haunts my loss,
A ghost in a waste of blue.
His wingtip strokes the skin of the sea,
He translates to silence every wandering word.
Then, as he wheels, he’s all that I love best
In you, the rapture of control,
The abandon to desire,
The constant duty
Of love to beauty,
The instinct of untest.
The awe and worship in the soul
By which the body’s actions never tire.
Soon to the north, and then those wings’ white cross
Will fade into the graveyard of the sea,
And you, who cannot start,
And I, each day
Further away,
Will think of the albatross
Still wandering over the ocean, free
And unlike us, except in this, apart.
ITALY.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.


£
ill
ml
in
The A.M.P.
announces that the total assurances (including bonuses)
in force on its booths now exceed £1000,000,000
The Society is not only the largest mutual life office in
the British Commonwealth of Nations, it is also one of
the greatest life assurance institutions in the world; and
Australians and New Zealanders have made it so.
Every member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded
by funds exceeding £3000,000,000, which the Society
seeks to invest to the greatest benefit of the members.
AMBraaigHtfara
Tfie
Australian Alutual
Provident Society
Head Office: 87 PITT ST., SYDNEY. General Manager: M. C. BUTTFIELD


PROGRESS...
In the 78 years of its existence this Society has
lived through a large part of Australia’s history.
In peace and in war, during good times and bad,
it has steadily increased in size and in ability to
benefit the community, until today it is recognised
as one of the strongest Life Assurance Societies in
the British Commonwealth.
A progressive Society with a reputation for
stability and service .
Assurances in Force
exceed £300,000,000
zACutual Jife Society
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society r.imiH
(Incorporated in Victoria, 1876.)
mm®
1 M
m
R
v : $-
H
I
- ....
mmm
mm
Will
: rag
Mm®®*'
■HI
■■■■■■
aaw—
*l
®isi?ilist§lf
The Head Office Building of the T. & G. } reflected in the River Yarra, Melbourne.
weekly ledger-balance. In Aus-
tralia the whole staff stays back
and helps with the hunt. In
Canada the ledgerkeeper hunts
alone, though often the cause of
the hunt is not his fault.
The call-over also enables the
manager to see what his
customers are up to. Customers
would be astonished at some
managerial duckings over their
cheques: “Silly ass, paying that
much for his wedding-ring,” and
so forth.
In the post-war boom I
remember a manager halting the
call-over and glooming over the
ledger, quite silent, for 20
minutes. At last he said, “Every-
body’s making money except
us.”
A prejudice common to
bankers in both Australia and
Canada is that against the clerk
who sits down too much. Indus-
trial psychologists (in case we
didn’t already suspect as much)
have shown that fatigue is
lessened by sitting down. None-
theless, the best bank-clerks
usually stand up to work. I
preferred to defy tradition and
sit down ; but was never a good
clerk.
Banks used not to advertise ;
now, however, most of them are
not above a dignified reminder
of their existence. I can
remember a bank which, being
located in a rather hole-and-
corner part of the town, first
ventured to hang out a neon-
sign. It was spoken of by rival
banks like a respectable Vic-
torian matron who had dared to
wear rouge. Decently reserved
neon-signs are now, of course, a
commonplace.
Bank-managers are not sup-
posed to go out drumming-up
new business, though, of course,
directly or indirectly, most of
them do. Those who do so too
flagrantly, however, are con-
demned by their rivals for
touting.
Both the teller and the ledger-
keeper keep revolvers handy, but
in my day, at least, precious little
training seemed to be given to
learning to use them. Where a
manager sleeps on premises
adjacent to the bank he’s sup-
posed to sleep with, dramatically,
a revolver under his pillow. My
father always adhered to this
insurance-regulation.
My mother always forgot to
warn new maids about this, so
that they would come hurtling
downstairs from making the
beds, in hysterics. I suspect
Mother forgot to tell the maid
on purpose as a first move in
getting the maid under her
thumb.
Maids were no luxury for old-
style country bank-managers.
The manager who preceded my
father kept the front door of his
residence open all the time so
that customers might drop in at
will for tea and cakes.
We did not carry hospitality
to quite these lengths, but I
remember Mother trying desper-
ately to entertain an elderly
farmer with records of Melba
and Galli Curci. She was unable
to tell from his impassive face
whether he was enjoying their
potted operatic shrieks. He sat.
He said nothing. His coat was
green with age, and he had
£95,000 on fixed-deposit.
At last, in desperation, she
fished-out a record of “Yes, We
Have No Bananas,” evidently
bootlegged-in by one of the
clerks. She closed the doors for
fear the townspeople would over-
hear this cultural descent. The
farmer smiled . . .
When first we went to the
country my father instructed my
mother that she was to nod to
everybody. This she did, to the
puzzlement of stray commercial-
travellers and bullock-drivers. A
country banker’s wife deserves to
be paid a salary.
On top of social duties she
has much housework. Banks
seemed to have expected their
managers to multiply their
species at an incontinent rate,
and built most residences
accordingly ...
Every year my father made-
out hundreds of income-tax
returns for customers. This
was a thoroughly Einstein-like
task. Old-time farmers either
didn’t know or else chose not to
know that a cow was income.
My father would say: “How
many cows did you sell last
year, Bill?” “Aw, I dunno.”
“Thirty?” “Not as many as
that.” “Ten?” “More than
that.” And so he would narrow
it down, till he came within a
cow or so of the truth. He
became expert at claiming for
fences destroyed by floods, and
the rest of the catalogue of
dairyfarm mishaps.
In return, the back-veranda
was pleasantly littered with eggs,
vegetables, fowls and every other
agricultural offering. My father
specially appreciated the dressed
Muscovy ducks from the local
pub, for he did not drink —and
pubs seldom want overdrafts.
So that he might inspect out-
lying securities, a manager was
allowed money for car-hire —
“horse-allowance,” the bank
called it.
We would drive over miles of
bone-shaking roads to inspect
customers’ crops. My father
would then get out of the car,
walk to the fence and look at the
crop. He seemed proud of it.
I think that farmers now tend
to be richer than used to be the
case. They are less dependent
on overdrafts, and for this
reason the bank-manager is not
quite the power on the land that
he used once to be.
A FANCY FOR HIS DEATH
Walking at large in the future of his death
By agelong rocks and early winter wheat
He was surprised by a falling sun. Beneath
That punishment he cried and fell, his breath
Died on the name of God in joy like hate.
And he, in the wreck of his unholy hours,
Lay by his hateful love the earth, unburied,
Till the tendrils of his veins grew green and sour
And put out leaves of strawberries. The far
Crows hawking through the midday air attended
His ceremonial destruction, flying
His name and eyes into the bleeding sun;
And he was spurned by lusty colts and sung
By plovers through the idle silver mornings,
And ants ran wild in the hollows of his bones.
Quiet he lay, till fiery August flared
Over that sober and astonished land
To mark with orchids his dead eyes and hair,
And the farm-boy passing that place at noon was
stayed
To think of him who lay so shallow, and
Pointing his pitchfork, whistled to the sky,
“Here is one more than sweat on lichened stone;
For now the bronze-flowered poison-bush shall rise
Bursting with sparks and flaming from his thighs,
And he is made perpetual with the sun.”
W.A.
RANDOLPH STOW.


' H **T
*
WWUSSp
eeSttJfSWSMfW**'
"i-r; np!.» ■L"l-'" " 1 -'" -*J>^wggfawaff^i»
TO QUALITY
The Hall Mark of Quality
m
Like so many things at Yarra Falls, a shuttle
leads a most active life ... millions of
journeys to and fro with only one purpose
• . . to help produce Australia’s finest quality
worsteds, which it does from pure
Australian virgin wool.
YARRA FALLS LIMITED
ABBOTSFORD, N 9. VICTORIA
ON OUR SAPARI
By Thelma forshaw
WE saw them arrive, from
our kitchen - window.
Four of them, picking
their way clumsily
through the rough grass-
paddock up to their house. They
all paused a decent distance from
the cow roped to a stump in the
yard, and I’ll guarantee the
diagram of a cow’s carcass in
Nell’s cookbook isn’t so neatly
calculated as that animal was
then. “All present and correct?”
and “Moo-moo, sir!” That’s
how it was.
You just got the feeling. Or
is it because you’ve heard that
sort of thing about them, so
often, you expect it?
The old lady was of globular
construction, and she rolled
along like a sailor, from one
foot to the other. She led the
party. The husband was built
square, from head to boots —
short and square—and, like a
square, you knew nothing could
get into him and nothing could
get out either, as with all
frightened people. The girl was
tall, and with that blackish look
their girls have—all hair, and a
little face tucked into it to break
the monotony. The young bloke,
only about eighteen, was good-
looking in the swashbuckling
way of boys who’ve seen
someone like themselves in the
films and live up to it.
They carried coats on their
arms, and you knew if they put
them on, the hems would clear
the ground only by about three
inches, making their feet seem
bigger than they were. They
talked very loud—like a good
row—and you could catch bursts
of the lingo all mixed together,
as they moved up to the house
where the fowlsheds were ranged
side and back, a-squawk with
their busily strutting inmates.
The talk resembled a composi-
tion for full orchestra, all the
instruments coming in together
and saying their bit, then weav-
ing in and out of each other,
tailing off, only to come in again
in twos and three. The con-
ductor and first-violin was the
old lady.
Wherever she moved, wherever
she stopped, the other three did
likewise. It was the longest
umbilical cord I’d ever seen, and
put me in mind of a crew of
mountaineers roped to each
other on some Alp.
TyELL shouldered in next to
me at the window and said :
“Wonder what, they are.”
“Reffos!”
“Yes, but where from?”
“Any place that’s giving them
the boot at the moment —could
be Germany, Czechoslovakia,
Austria, Poland . . . Any of
those. Don’t you follow the
Hitler serial?” There isn’t any
others she misses between 9 a.m.
and 8 p.m., Greenwich Mean
Time.
/‘Oh, you!” She pushed me
with her elbow. “Suit you better
to see if you can give them a
hand, instead of staring the day-
lights out of them.”
“The study of mankind is
man, ducks,” I said, by way of
ennobling my peasant curiosity.
She’s a good girl—any woman
who’d give up her gay town life
to satisfy my middle-aged whim
for a little chicken-farm just out
of the city must be. I’d been
fl white-collar boy—the glossy,
well-starched variety that some-
times calls for a bow-tie—for
twenty years, and that did me.
Nell had exchanged her cocktail-
apron for the utility sort to
oblige, so it’s to be expected her
tongue would get -a fine cutting-
edge to it.
I left the refs in peace, and
went back to my paper. Nell
gave me a look. “There’s plenty
of work to be done, you know,
Fred.”
“Sure, sure,” I agreed
enthusiastically. “Love the stuff.
Can’t stay away from it. But
a little self-denial ’ll do me
good.”
She ought to know by now, I
enjoy chicken-farming without
working at it. I watched her go
out to feed the chooks, herself,
with her thin lip back. I could
tell her moods for a whole week
without seeing her face. She has
a very eloquent back, Nell has.
r T'HE chicken country we’re in
is almost urban the way
there’s very little distance be-
tween the various runs. Each
wouldn’t pan out to more than
twelve acres, if that. Only the
sparse bush—which always puts
me in mind of a man losing his
hair—and the dusty road
corrugating along from the rail-
way keeps up the illusion that
we’re far from the madding
throng of Sydney. We are, in
fact, a bare thirty miles, but it’ll
do.
One has moments when the
refinements of civilisation have
their appeal, and then one gives
way to an orgy of cityism. This
starts off with shopping, ranging
from the utility-type down to the
fine nuances; a decent sort of
pub-crawl; dinner among the
plush, and, if the fever’s still
running high, a leery play or a
front-stall at the Tiv. After
which, one comes home feeling
debauched, hailing the good,
clean, country life hysterically’
and works it all off in a few
days’ hard yakka. Purified
again, you might say.
It’s a crave like the grog, the
city life, once you’ve abandoned
it, but most of the time you’re a
passive addict, only bursting out
in periodic sprees.
The general run of our
colleagues in the neighborhood
are the spal McCoy, though.
They’re grown right out of the
place—not “slips,” like Nell and
me. We rub along fine, because
we all love chicken-farming, but
not what you would call working
at it . . . And straight from
scratch, our newchums, the
reffos, stood out like sore toes,
because, right way or wrong
way brother, they worked at
chicken-farming!
Next day, Nell tucked some
scones under her wing, and we
started over to their place with
the idea of giving them a leg-in
to the community.
It had rained overnight
summer-hard, but the heat had
recharged itself long before the
first cock shot off his big beak.
Poppa Ref. and Baby Ref. were
ready for it. There they were,
attired like a couple of pukka’
sahibs, toeing it gingerly through
the sheds, flicking grains of feed
at the hens like pinches of salt.
Both wore tropical sun-helmets
of the aggressively African type,
soap-ad. shirts, and long white
shorts that touched the tops of
kneeboots. Outsize sunglasses
balanced like little black scales
across their noses. Mouths and
chins were left recklessly exposed
to the fury of the outer-Sydney
tropics.
Nell got behind a tree. “God
forgive me!” she choked, and,
having summoned divine sanc-
tion, gave way to her uncharit-
able mirth. I stood thoughtfully
watching the little safari as it
trudged manfully through the
fowl sheds, appeasing the savage
hunger of wild and woolly
poultry.
“Come on, pull yourself
together!” I snapped. “Or I’ll
haul out those spike-heels you
brought up with you, and line
’em up outside the gate.”
That adjusted her perspective,
and we went on, giving them a
hail as we climbed through their
fence.
TIOUND they whirled—there’s
no other word for it—and
stood waiting with a tension so
strong it could have been rented-
out to playwrights for thirty
per cent, of the gate.
“You can forget about the
S.S. out here, mates,” I muttered,
a bit unnerved by the huge
apprehension of their expect-
ancy, as we bore down on them.
Nell nervously held out the
scones. “These will save your
lady work at morning-tea,” she
shouted.
The big sunglasses flashed like
headlamps towards the house
and focused there.
“Mumma! ” barked the boy.
“Halloo! Halloo! ” Poppa
brayed with desperate breezi-
ness. I thought of a couple of
poddy-calves threatened by
dingoes.
Mumma lumbered out, wiping
her hands on an apron as big as
a car-tarp. “Vot is! Vot is!”
she bellowed, and finally came
to a ponderous halt, head and
shoulders below all of us.
Nell seemed near tears. She’s
very sensitive to atmosphere, of
which we keep very little round
our place. She held out the
scones again, and talked in her
“deaf voice,” which is keyed for
hailing a party of lost bush-
walkers in the Blue Mountains.
“Scones!” she shouted. “For
your morning-tea!”
“Shkon?” The old lady
frowned. “Ve not much English.
Only drei month coming from
Wien. Vot is shkon?”
“Kiichen” I swaggered, and
her face lit up. She caught my
hand. “You must come!
Come!” She pulled, gesturing
at the house with her head, free
hand, and the part where her
apron tied at the back. “I
making coffee mit schlag.” She
smiled, and her shrewd old
porous face beamed with it. She
turned her back on the menfolk,
and pushed us both before her
into the house like a hospitable
bulldozer.
“Ah, coffee with cream,” I said
for Nell’s benefit. “Not too hot
for our weather? Er —nicht zu
heiss, Frau ?”
“Jones,” she said, pronounc-
ing it “Chones.” “Frau Jones.”
“Oh, yes,” I thought. “Well,
it’s a wee improvement on
Frankenwurtzeiiheimer.”
She brought out some very
nifty china, and I took a good
dekko at the stuff they had
already managed to shove into
the positions prescribed for turn-
ing a house into home. You
could see into one of the bed-
rooms from where I sat, and the
beds were the twin sort, which
seem to be a fetish with
foreigners, very low and decora-
tively covered, too. There was a
Persian carpet, and very nice
brocaded curtains altogether
rather rich icing for such a plain
cake as a farmhouse.
(Continued on page 54)


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
This is the anniversary of the week in
which the Queen arrived in Australia on
her memorable visit. Glorious as the
summer’s day was when she stepped
ashore in Sydney, and dreary as the
weather was when she arrived home in
London, it is obvious which was the
happier occasion, for, no matter how
much precisionists may say that the
Queen is “at home” anywhere in the
Commonwealth of Nations, nothing can
alter the fact that England is her birth-
place and the home, of her mother and
her children, and the longer she is away
from it the happier must be her return.
☆ | ☆ ☆
Interesting people due to tour Aus-
tralia this year include American actress
Katharine Hepburn and Australian-born
Robert Helpmann. The tour will begin
in May under the auspices of the Old
Vic Company and J. C. Williamson
Theatres, Ltd., the plays to be performed
including “The Merchant of Venice,”
“The Taming of the Shrew” and
“Measure for- Measure,” with Katharine
Hepburn taking the parts of Portia,
Katharina and Isabella. Robert Help-
mann will play Shylock, Petruchio and
Angelo. The producer will be Michael
Benthall, and the tour will last six
months, with performances in Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and
Perth.
☆ ☆ ☆
An exhibition to be opened today
(Wednesday) at Anthony Horderns’ Gal-
lery shows, by means of particularly clear
photographs, many aspects of religious
life in the U.S.A. All the chief denomina-
tions are represented, and especially
interesting are the examples of modern
architecture and decoration used. The
Unitarian Church in Wisconsin, designed
by Frank Lloyd Wright, has a curious
and beautiful design, like two hands in
the attitude of prayer. There is a
cylindrical chapel by Eero Saarinen
which reminds one, very unhappily, of
a gasometer; there are steeples of many
kinds, including one set in a lily-pond;
and the stained-glass windows, shown
by color-transparencies lit from behind,
frequently employ modern abstract
ideas.
☆ ☆ ☆ ,
The Women Pioneers’ Club celebrated
Australia Day with a late-afternoon party
at the club-rooms in the city. Mrs.
Wentworth Grayson, president of the
Women Pioneers, received the guests,
who included Mr. and Mrs. Ralph King
(representing the Australasian Pioneers’
clubs) and members of the Diplomatic
and Consular Corps.
☆ ☆ ☆
Having always considered the English
as a nation of dog-lovers, it was very
sad to read about the party given in
Chelsea flat for a poodle, who, it is
reported, wore red nail-varnish and a
rhinestone collar and was given a two-
hour beauty-treatment costing £2 10s. (He
was lacquered pearl-grey all over with
silver tips on his forehead-fringe.) Some
of the poodle-guests were scented, one
wore an H-line dress, another an orchid.
This follows on the shock of seeing a
picture of Prince Youssoupoff’s pug-dog
Mopsi in bridal costume ! It is question-
able whether this sort of thing is more
degrading to the dogs than to the people
who do it to them.
☆ ☆ ☆
With the consent of her Majesty, the
N.S.W. Homes for Incurables have been
renamed the Royal Ryde Homes, which
also include Moorong, the home for
patients suffering from cancer. The
Homes are appealing urgently for funds
' for extensions already under way, as
there are many helpless people anxiously
awaiting admission, and a response to the
appeal for funds will mean that there
is no hold-up in the extensions. The
Homes are entirely undenominational and
all donations are free of tax. The address
of the appeal is 15 Bligh-street, Sydney.
☆☆ ' ☆
Mrs. Neville Harding ' has replaced
Mrs. C. P. Johnson as president of the
Y.W.C.A. in N.S.W. —Mrs. Johnson will
give her energy to the launching of the
“Y” Centenary Finance Campaign, which
has set £30,000 as its target. The money
will be devoted to the equipment of a
hostel at Mbsman, the re-establishment
of a hostel at Parramatta, the mainten-
ance and equipment of Elizabeth House
at Austinmer (where mixed holiday-'
groups are held) and the gymnasium in
the city building. The appeal, which will
be launched on April 18, will have its
office in Kyle House, Macquarie-place.
☆ ☆ ☆
An engagement of interest in both
New Zealand and N.S.W. is that of
Pamela Loughlan Kelly, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. T. Loughlan Kelly, of St.
Mary’s, and formerly of Morilla, Temora,
to Mr. Paul Levin, twin son of Mr. and
Mrs. C. Levin, of Palmerston North
(N.Z.). Pamela’s family is well-known
in the Gwydir district, where her great-
grandfather, Martin Kelly, settled in
1847, while the Levin family has been
settled in New Zealand since 1841 ; the
town of Levin is named after it. Paul is
a descendant of the first Prime Minister
of New Zealand. The engagement was
announced during the week at a cock-
tail-party at the Hotel Australia which
was attended by about 60 guests, includ-
ing many New Zealanders.
☆ ☆ ☆
Nancy Keesing, whose marriage takes
place today (Wednesday) at the Grand
Synagogue to Dr. Mark Herzberg, is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Gordon
Keesing, of Pennant Hills. She is one of
The Bulletin regulars whose work is
surveyed in the article “Contemporary
Writers and Poets” in the present issue.
Her fiance, Dr. Herzberg, an industrial
chemist with C.S.I.R.O., is the son of Mr.
and Mrs. Marcus Herzberg, of Brisbane.
An authority . on antiques, Mr.
Stanley Lipscombe will go from Sydney
to Adelaide to help in the selection
of pieces for the exhibition which
Mrs. Clifford Deeley and Mrs. M.
Nott are arranging at the Institute,
Adelaide, from March 3 to 17 in aid of
Red Cross. China, silver and glassware,
all pre-dating 1830, will be shown, and
the Royal Worcester Company is send-
ing to Australia, specially for the exhibi-
tion, china of historical interest.
☆ ☆ ☆
Two of Adelaide’s distinguished women
who received the 0.8. E. in the New
Year’s honors’-list were Dr. Constance
Davey and Miss Constance McGrath.
Dr. Davey had a brilliant career at
the University and was a pioneer in
psychology and vocational-guidance
work. The first psychologist to be
appointed to the S.A. Department of
Education, she has given valuable Ser-
vice to the Children’s Welfare Depart-
ment, the Juvenile Court, Minda Home
and other institutions.
Dr. Davey has also been actively con-
nected for many years with the League
of Women Voters in S.A., and the Aus-
tralian Federation of Women Voters. A
lecturer in psychology at the S.A. Univer-
sity, she took a leading part in the estab-
lishment of a Chair of Social Studies
there and, under a senior research
fellowship, has made a profound study
of the laws regarding women and chil-
dren from the’ early days until 1950.
Miss Constance McGrath, head of
S.A.’s women police, is a comparative
newcomer to social-work, and her one
ambition is the lessening of child-delin-
quency. Alert, good-humored, firm in her
dealings, and with highly, specialised
knowledge, she should succeed. Her other
interests are nearly all tied-up with social-
work, the care of the aged (especially
those in institutions), and work of the
Soroptimist Club, of which she is a vice-
president. An accomplished musician,
Miss McGfath studied at the Adelaide
Conservatorium before joining the women
police.
MELBOURNE
Greenknowe, the lovely home of Sir
Robert and Lady Knox, was the setting
for a late-afternoon party given in honor
of Sir William Angliss on his 90th
birthday. The hostess wore a white silk
surah frock coin-spotted in black. Lady
Angliss’s Chantilly-lace frock was pale-
grey, and her black straw calot was
trimmed with roses.
Among the guests were the Marquis
and Marchioness of Headfort, Sir Rupert
Clarke, Bt., and Sir Clifden and Lady
Eager (her taffeta frock an elusive shade
of grey). Mrs. W. Russell Clarke chose
black French-crepe, with the deep hem-
line finely pleated; her small hat was of
white straw. Major David Knox and his
wife came from Nagambie foi* the party,
and assisting Sir Robert and Lady Knox
were their son-in-law and daughter, Major
Robert Lindsay, M.P., and Mrs. Lindsay.
Mrs. Harold Wright’s pink nylon frock
was flower-printed. Mrs. L. J. Dooliiig
had a matching straw hat for her silk
frock. Mrs. Edgar Rouse chose a
cinnamon-brown and white frock and
small white hat. Lady Allison’s white
silk frock was splashed with gay red
flowers; her hat was a large white
straw.
The scooped-out neckline of the green
frock worn by Mrs. Geoffrey Whitehead
was clustered with white beads. Mrs.
Robert Southey’s slim white linen dress
featured a low-cut neckline. Other
guests were Archbishop and Mrs. J. J.
Booth, Mrs. Leonard Darling, Sir Clive
and Lady Steele, Dean Roscoe Wilson
and Mrs. Wilson and Miss Gertrude
Johnson.
In addition to her job with Junior Red
Cross, Clarissa Starey is a member of
the Whernside Auxiliary (which works
for Royal Melbourne Hospital) and is
now busy preparing for the fete to be
held at Cranlana on February 28. Also
she belongs to the Younger Members’
Group of the E.S.U. and to the Young
Contingent of the Victoria League.
Reading, tennis and swimming are her
recreations. John Warlow photo.
Tjie Governor and Lady Brooks will
be present at Menzies’ Hotel on Monday,
February 21, when the Kurneh Auxiliary
will stage a Parisian Parade in aid of the
Queen Victoria Hospital. Lady Brookes
(wife of Sir Norman Brookes) is president
of the Hospital, and Mrs. Lindsay Mildred
the auxiliary’s president. Vice-presidents
are Lady Gengoult Smith and Mrs. R. H.
Baillieu; ticket - secretaries, Mrs. lan
Miller (UY2266) and Mrs. R. V. Gove
(8J3055). The lovely French-model
gowns will come from the Collins-street
salon of La Louvre, and Henriette la
Motte will supply the hats.
☆ ☆ ☆
Autumn and winter fashions were
expressed by Leroy in a new range and
displayed by mannequins who managed
somehow to look cool despite the heavy
suits and topcoats they wore on one
of summer’s hottest days.- The display
included soft jersey, angora, velvet and
featherweight-tweed frocks, all very
feminine.
The newest collars lie flat, cut well away
from the neck, and curve with the shape
of the shoulders. The waistline shows new
and interesting changes: inset waists have
high Empire-yokes, dresses are fitted
middy-style to the hipline, and a belt
is optional. Pockets and half-belts at
hip-level suggest a modified trend towards
the H-line. Skirts are slim, or feature
an easy flare; some swing in unpressed
pleats. Coats may be straight or fitted,
and are made in lovely tweed mixtures.
It will be a bright winter, for glowing
reds lead in a color-range which goes
through to softened shades of green
and grey. One of the five models shown
(sketched by Barbara Robertson, they
will appear in the February issue of the
English “Vogue”) was a classic tweed
suit of iridescent black and red, the jacket
belted with black patent-leather, the skirt
slim and finished at the back with one
inverted pleat. There was also a swirling
skirt of black taffeta topped with a long-
sleeved black jersey blouse which had
the long “torso” look and was high-
lighted with jewelled motifs at one
shoulder.
News was made with a half-belted
sealcloth coat, which is also to. appear
in “Vogue.” The coat was straight from
the shoulders, and interest was centred
on the neckline, which had a tie lined
with black velvet and slotted through a
jewelled loop. The color is wintergarden-
green. Also for publication in “Vogue”
were two models in grey snowflake-tweed.
The first, a suit designed specially for the
petite, featured a slightly-bloused jacket
with a half-belt, the skirt straight and
slim. Also of snowflake-tweed was the
figure-defining coat-dress, buttoned from
the neckline to hem. It had a detachable
scarf, which could be tied, folded or
knotted and fastened with a large rhine-
stone-studded gunmetal safety-pin.
Other Leroy fashions included a wrap-
around topcoat with a triple-tiered high-
wayman-collar. There was a charcoal-
grey-and-black-checked skirt, slim-fitting
around the waist and hips, then cut to
swirl and flare attractively; diamonds
of blue and white rhinestones sparkled
at intervals over the skirt and waistband.
Another eye-catcher was a six-gored skirt
with a slotted belt and an easy flare in
a grey-and-white tweed woven with pink
and mauve, and worn with a cross-over
jersey top, made in the same warm pink
shade.
Tall and slim, with a glorious peaches-
and-cream complexion, Mrs. John Davis
(Dinah Sheridan, former stage- and
screen-star) said at the reception given
to her husband and herself by the Lord
Mayor that she was now content to “tag
along” with her husband, and that her
decision to renounce stage and screen
in favor of the roles of wife and mother
was final. Mrs. Davis wore a wide-
brimmed white platter-hat with her slim
frock of shocking-pink silk-surah. Pinned
to the draped neckline was a quaint
little jewelled motor-car, a reminder of
her famous picture “Genevieve.”
The Lady Mayoress (Mrs. F. P. Selleck)
topped her black organza-and-lace frock
with a tiny white hat. On the dais also
were Mr. Norman Rydge (of Greater
Union Theatres) and Mrs. Rydge, the
latter in a pleated silk frock printed with
a flower design in cream and black on a
pale-beige background; her small white
hat with a mushroom-brim was draped
with white chiffon.
Also in the official party were Or.
and Mrs. John Buchan, she attractive in
an aqua-blue polished-cotton frock which
had bows tied on the shoulders, and a
narrow black curvette; Mrs. Geoffrey
Tolson (daughter of the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress), who wore a black
faille coat with a coral-pink loofah-straw
hat; and Mrs. George Griffith, who added
to her wide-skirted frock of white cotton
patterned with narrow brown stripes a
hat which had white chiffon looped
through the lace brim.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sir John Lienhop, Victoria’s Agent-
General in London, and Lady Lienhop
were guests-of-honor at a Town Hall re-
ception given by the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. Selleck).
The pale-pink roses presented to Lady
Lienhop matched her soft-pink swathed
chiffon calot and gloves, which she wore
with a sleeveless frock of navy pure-
silk taffeta. From the low waistline to
the hem were tiny flounces of pleated
silk organza. .
The Lady Mayoress wore a small white
toque massed with white flowers with her
frock of white-spotted rose-pink silk.
The Premier’s wife, Mrs. John Cj.j,
allied a picture-hat of black crinoline
silk-straw with a slim frock of creamy
Cluny-lace, . * . .


Public Notice
I, TIENUS VET, of Dutch nationality,
born at Rotterdam, Holland, resident 7
years in Australia, now residing at Lae,
New Guinea, intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act, 1948.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN p. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JI. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial '
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSON&m
OSUIIJVAI?. /
o
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
\ND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
'PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
In founding the great institutions which have contributed so largely to the pro-
gress of Australia, our forbears made history. They may not have foreseen the
great changes in technique and fashion which have taken place since their day,
but they had great faith in the future and their works were based on principles
of integrity and sound business and on ideals of service.
Basing their policies on these same principles, men to-day are
still making history, extending industry and establishing new
enterprises. In entrusting their banking business to The
National Bank of Australasia Limited, many of to-day’s history
makers find a service well suited to their needs, based on
principles which accord closely with their own.
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
750. Offices throughout Australia Agents throughout the World
The Making of Htetotp
f
L-
A
yy
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Art Today
What a flourishing state Aus-
tralian art is in today, however
haywire it may seem at times.
Seventy-five years ago, when
The Bulletin began, though we
may have had such pioneers as
Wainewright, Brierley, Gill and
Conrad Martens, there was
hardly a painter in the country.
It is fantastic to look back to
a day when there were no
Gruners, no Streetons, no
Norman Lindsays, no Heysens:
when the whole tradition of Aus-
tralian painting had yet to be
established. And no doubt it
would have seemed even more
fantastic in those days to look
into the future and see what is
now an ordinary week’s art in
Sydney: a group of Latvian
artists (of all things!) at David
Jones’s gallery being replaced
today (February 2) by (of all
the, incredible things!) 13 of the
aboriginal Aranda watercolorists
from the Hermannsburg mission.
Both of which demonstrate,
when you come to think of it,
how comprehensively and con-
tinuously fresh life is seeping
into Australian art . . . from the
native earth and from Europe.
While there was nothing wildly
exciting in the Latvian exhibi-
tion the standard showed more
than a mere kindness to New
Australians: it was, in its modest
way, quite firmly artistic.
Erna Dzelme-Berzina showed
some tender and sensitive draw-
ings in sanguine-pencil of “The
Sleeping Girl” and “The Little
Reader” ; Uldis Abolins a set of
bold, inky watercolors, loose in
drawing; Juris Dukurs some
effective lino-cuts with a striking
“Fairytale” amongst them;
Dzems Krivs some extremely
vivid small monotypes, notably
“In the Garden,” done in some
kind of dye or Chinese ink;
Herbert 581 s a suave “Wounded
Pigeon” ; Reinis Zusters a huge,
bold, rather slick “Sunflowers
HI”; and Raimonds Rumba a
terracotta bust of “My Mother”
full of feeling and movement.
A “Bush Scene” by Reinis
Zusters was the only attempt—
and quite an effective one —to
say what the Latvians think
about their new country.
The aboriginal exhibition —
since these painters have
deservedly become a popular cult
—will doubtless attract as much
interest and as many customers
as its predecessors.
Albert Namatjira, leader of
the movement and generally the
soundest of the painters, is
missing, but curiosity will be
aroused by the arrival of four
new painters: Adolf and
Gerhard Inkamald, who are
nephews of Namatjira ; Benjamin
Fandera, who married Albert’s
daughter; and an artist who
bears a name already famous
in Australian art —Lindsay
Imbarnderinja.
Lindsay Imbarnderinja lately
had a watercolor bought by the
Adelaide National Gallery
(Sydney still shamefully neglects
the Arandas) and is said by some
admirers to be the best of the
group. He is, poor fellow, a
patient in the Alice Springs
hospital.
Another interesting member
of the group is the lady aborigine,
Cordula Ebatarinja, a
phenomenon unique in the
history of art, not the least of
whose claims to sympathy is
that she has found tipie to paint
while attending to her domestic
duties as the mother of eight
children.
At the same time, to prove that
Australian artists, as distinct
from Latvians and aborigines,
are still in full activity, Sydney
Macquarie Galleries also opens
a new exhibition today, a “show
of sixes” with Enid Cambridge,
Russell Drysdale, George
Duncan, Joy Ewirt, Ena Joyce,
John D. Moore, John Passmore,
Alison Rehfisch, George
Lawrence and Roland Wakelin
among the 50 exhibitors.
At Anthony Horderns’ exhibi-
tion hall the U.S. Information
Agency is showing 40 panels
illustrating, with an emphasis on
architecture, the development of
“The Church in America.”
❖
Archibald Fantasy
Why not, since the N. S.
Wales Contemporary * Art
Society appointed its own judges
(two of them daily newspaper
art-critics) to decide who really
should have won the Archibald
Prize, an Archibald Critics’
competition?
One has become accustomed
to the same characteristic
comments each year, and the
award goes monotonously to the
“Morning Rooster’s” art-critic,
who has carried off the prize for
the sixth year in succession.
His canvas this year comes as
no surprise. Here again are all
the same old ingredients—the
bold effacing strokes in ‘his
presentation of the prizewinner,
the thick slabs of “camera”
impasto, the “official portrait”
smearwork still as brilliant and
arid as before. Here, too, are
those calculated highlights, the
garlands of adjectival color
which he bestows on his chosen
figures in the background.
It is all very glossy and
successful, but one wonders
whether the competition has not
been reduced to a formula.
There are other critics who for
some reason or other are passed
over by the judges, notably Miss
Olive McOlive with her pungent’'
summary, “The whole show
stinks.” This entry, in its brevity
and taut emotion, its tonal
balance and daring, is worth a
score of the winner’s smoothly
turned but vacant paragraphs.
Another neglected masterpiece
was submitted by a New Aus-
tralian commentator, Dash
Villacznik, who said, “Some are
goot and some are not goot.”
The harmony and intricate
balance of this composition, with
its deceptively simple structure,
would have captured the atten-
tion of any judges not lost in the
fog of tradition.
Another newcomer, Johnny
Warble, aged six, deserved better
luck with his wistful and charm-
ing, “Mummy, I want to go
home.” In the face of this
lucid directness, this youthful
instinct for the one artistic aim
that matters, the established
practitioners con their
thesauruses in vain.
We liked, too, the rough and
refreshing brio in Mick
Mafferty’s gemlike miniature.
Standing in front of Stanislaw
Kiecal’s “Self Portrait,” Mick
dashed off his entry with an
almost electrical spontaneity.
“Struth!” he said. Here surely
is criticism round and complete
as a sphere, invulnerable,
magisterial in its finality.
But enough. Suffice it to say
that we overheard at least a
dozen critiques of equal fresh-
ness and merit, and all equally
ignored by the judges. The
prospects for next year’s com-
petition have been* blighted in
advance by this year’s awards ;
one may look forward gloomily
to another triumph for stodgi-
ness and convention, when the
“old masters” will again trot
out their polished and com-
mercial phrases, too terrified to
adventure one inch from the rut
of their conventions. — Abie.
Stage and Music
“Home of the Brave”
Plunged into three acts of non-
stop hysteria, even a more
seasoned cast than St. Peters
Community Players might lurch
a bit.
Laurents’s play (Metropolitan,
Sydney) busies itself with the
squabbles that stem from race-
hatred. Set against .the Pacific
war, its Jew-hating G.l.’s might
in truth have been busier with
another squabble.
Ron Owen made a good shot
at the prolonged rant required of
him as the Jewish boy. The cast
might have sounded more
American had they not essayed
American accents. Gerry
Duggan was convincing as
Mingo ; convincingly playing his
pleasant self, perhaps.
The potted-palm and maiden-
hair-fern jungle stole the show.
♦♦♦
A Verdi Night
Four principals of National
Opera shook out their vocal
chords as a pipe-opener to the
forthcoming season by putting
on an all-Verdi concert for the
Cammeray (N. S. Wales) Music
Group, four operas being drawn
upon.
Betty Prentice, the company’s
top coloratura, who is able to
achieve admirable flexibility
while singing in the most relaxed
manner, soared lightly into the
stratosphere of “Caro Nome”
whilst injecting into that lovely
apostrophe to a lover’s name a
fair degree of rhapsody.
Margaret Elkins, a mezzo-
soprano whose range extends
well into true contralto territory
without undue forcing, was
heard with Geoffrey Chard in
two duets from “IlTrovatore”:
the heavily tragic “Fierce Flames
Are Burning,” in which the
gipsy Azucena recalls her
mother’s death at the stake, and
the nostalgic “Home to Our
Mountains.” Whilst Miss
Elkins’s high-quality mezzo was,
well suited to the flowing
lyricism of the latter, the former
duet called for the darker
shadows which her voice has still
to develop.
Geoffrey Chard, whose bari-
tone has greatly improved over
the past two seasons, brought
a rich and fiery resonance to bear
on Rigoletto’s savage denuncia-
tion of the “vile race of
courtiers,” and his switch from
black rage to piteous pleading to
save his daughter was finely
conveyed. In the duet with Gilda
which immediately follows, “On
Every Festal Morn,” both voices
were saturated in despair.
Raymond Macdonald’s tenor,
rather more robust than is called
for in the role of the profligate
Duke of Mantua, nevertheless
succeeded in capturing much of
the light-hearted gaiety of “Mid
the Fair Throng” and “Woman
Is Fickle,” which set the code
of that nobleman’s morals.
Marie van Hove was an
accompanist whose true excel-
lence was reflected in the fiercely
agitated accompaniment to the
“Vile Race of Courtiers.”


Seventy-nine years of Sea Progress
> '
mm
m
, f'fi - £&, x
M
H
m
** r
111
Wi£
SSS
IMi
SBM
Barque
“Olivia Davies”
M.V. “Wanganella
Services Operated by
Huddart Parser Limited
PASSENGER SERVICES:
SYDNEY—AUCKLAND SYDNEY—WELLINGTON
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—ADELAIDE—FREMANTLE
TASMANIAN STEAMERS:
MELBOURNE—BEAUTY POINT—BURNIE—DEVONPORT
FREIGHT SERVICES:
NEWCASTLE—SYDNEY—HOBART MELBOURNE—HOBART
NEWCASTLE—MELBOURNE
MELBOURNE—N.-W. TASMANIAN PORTS
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—ADELAIDE—FREMANTLE
SYDNEY—AUCKLAND SYDNEY—WELLINGTON
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
466 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
and at SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, HOBART, GEELONG, BALLARAT, AUCKLAND and WELLINGTON
Agents at All Other Ports in Australia and New Zealand
Congratulations to “The Bulletin ’ on their 75th Anniversary
1876
!
As we sat drinking the coffee
with cream, the sweat popped out
of our pores like beads of syrup.
Out of sheer pity I introduced the
•topic of tea.
“Ah, tea,” she sighed. “So
very dear, no? In Wien is not
to buy.”
I threw out my arms expan-
sively. “Any amount, Frau
Jones. You know —sehr viele —
everywhere in Australia, tea.”
“So?” She nodded, impressed.
“Is very hot here. Tea is being
besser ?”
The suspicious faces of her
menfolk peered round the door-
way, and she summoned them in
with a rattle of German. They
stood staring at us, and I
imagined the girl had fled at the
first sound of our voices, and
was probably listening behind a
closed door.
“In Wien,” Frau Jones con-
fided, “we leaving very much.
I have three shops, all very goot
bissiness. Karlchen— sitz du!”
She commanded the boy, who
was eyeing my rough garb—or
semi-nakedness —up and down,
a red flush of comprehension
staining his neck. His threatened
manhood overrode his mother's
inducement to sociability, and
he disappeared for a few
minutes, sidling back stripped of
half his safari clobber.
“Assimilation begins,” I
thought with a grin. “But bet
your life Herr holds out to the
bitter end.”
“Yes, in Wien,” chanted Frau
Jones lingeringly, “I am having
housemaids for my work.
This —I never doing!” She
indicated her apron, and I felt
Nell’s sympathetic tremor. “But
Hitler —he taking all. And so
we having only enough to buy
chicken-farm.”
I shook my head, in a com-
bination of astoundment and
sympathy.
“We see only hen on table, in
Wien,” she explained, “never
before on feet, walking. In
Wien, is not necessary for me,
verstehn sie ?"
NELL gave a hysterical giggle,
which I covered with a
fusillade of vehement “Yah’s.”
I caught an ironical dart from
her eye. She gets jealous of my
adaptability in all sorts of
company, and I was enjoying my
role of cosmopolite.
I told Frau Jones reassuring
things about her neighbors—all
good sorts —and of the major, a
real gentleman, who could also
speak a little German with her,
being an Old Digger.
“Ah, Dicker,” she sighed.
“This is something for a war,
no? The man” —she jerked her
head, and I could see old Mac,
the handyman who’d passed over
to them with the farm, knocking
about outside, in his spuriously
busy fashion —“Yen he speak—
you think war is something for
a dicker, no?”
I nodded. Old Mac had never
come back from Flanders. He
had parley-voo-e d, toot-sweet-e d
and French-tabby-ed right up to
the Lili Marlene period, which
was then with us.
Presently I noticed a certain
rhythm about the comings and
goings of Herr Jones and
Karlchen, They would stand
about for a while, listening
blankly, then snatch up egg-
baskets and duck outside, sidling
back in again, murmuring and
grunting together feverishly., The
next time I observed these
shenanigans, they stamped in,
hooting exultantly, and I saw
that the cause of their glee was
three eggs. Frau Jones’s eye
gleamed and she nodded
approval. After a decent
interval, off they went again with
the baskets, returning with faces
as long as your arm, eggless.
I could see fascinated disbelief
on Nell’s face, as she followed
these sorties. And it dawned on
me that they regarded a live
hen as a kind of doughnut-
machine, and expected her lady-
ship to give with a one-two-
three-egg routine round the
clock. I felt tired just thinking
of it. And a little stern, in
R.S.P.C.A. style. Hens, after all,
were not Austrian shopgirls. Not
that it actually worried me. I’ll
stake a hen to call the tune right
up to the minute her neck’s
wrung.
Nell opened her mouth, closed
it and looked at me, but I said
nothing. My line of thought
was too entrancing ... If it
came to the point, they weren't
expecting the hens to do more
than they’d do themselves. Now,
if the Frau Joneses could have
laid the eggs, themselves, there’d
be a mighty pretty profit in no
time. Yes, I could quite see the
frustration of just sitting and
waiting for those hens to lower
away. But, they’d soon lose
that urgent, let’s-press-on-time’s-
flying attitude and learn to adjust
their tempo to La Chook’s.
I got up—well entertained, but
not the greedy type. “Work to
be done, Frau Jones,” I said
heartily, “so we’ll be off. If we
can be of any help to you, you
will let us know, eh? We’re only
next-door. Don’t be shy.”
She nodded blankly and vigor-
ously, reading my intentions in
face and tone.
We noticed the scones had not
been touched, and I could
imagine them all, after we’d
gone, bending over, their heads
together,. pulling them apart,
sniffing and tasting gingerly.
“Well, for heaven’s sake”
Nell began, as we went indoors,
“You might have told them you
only collect eggs twice a
day”
“Look, ducks, they wouldn’t
have believed me.” I eyed the
teapot pointedly. “They’d think
I was trying to hold ’em back.”
“Poor silly devils,” she said,
putting the kettle on. “What
possessed them to take it up?
They’ll be broke in six months.”
I smiled. Nell knows the
smile. It was often cast in our
college-plays—with me as a sort
of frame for it. She gave it
answer. “Oh, go on! In all that
tropical get-up and egg-
hunting!” She looked at me
doubtfully, but I held it. The
Mona Lisa wouldn’t have got a
look-in.
AS the Frau Joneses settled, 1
was over there more often
than our own place, and Nell
put up with my absences for the
sake of the stories I brought
back to her, playing Penelope to
my Ulysses.
Then came the heatwave. It
always does, of course, but this
was the Frau Joneses’ first. After
laying out my dead, I strolled
over to sympathise, flopping
down* on their back doorstep
with a lassitude and resignation
I expected to find duplicated by
similarly bereaved Joneses.
“How many you lost?” I
asked.
“None! None! ” shouted Frau
Jones. “Not to sit there, mister,
please!”
I came indoors, suddenly feel-
ing a mere fleck of dust in their
cosmos. The air was charged
with urgency. Just as I’d got out
of the way, Herr Jones and
Karlchen and the girl came
storming across the yard, crad-
ling‘Stonkered hens in their arms.
They hurtled into the kitchen
and delivered up their burdens
to Frau Jones, who was squat-
ting vastly on the floor,
surrounded by stricken fowl.
“Papa! Karlchen! Quick!
Bring der coffee! Bring me
coffee! Quick!” Karlchen
scattered and came running with
a big enamel jug. This she
snatched, from him, and, with a
spoon, began ladling the cold
brew into a sunstruck chook.
“Ice! Ice!” she screamed.
They skidded up with it, and
she applied an ice-block to the
bird’s comb. The patient was
then borne off and tucked into
the sink, with the tap running.
She turned to the next casualty.
First the dose of black coffee,
then ice to the fevered brow
and to bed in Ward Sink.
The out-patients’ department
on Anzac Day wasn’t in it!
Sun-smitten chooks staggered
around, bumping into the walls
and dripping with melted ice.
Meanwhile, the St. John’s
Ambulance service kept running
between the yard and the
kitchen, Herr Jones and the kids
reeling in with armfuls of fresh
invalids. In the middle of it all,
Florence Nightingale kept on
ministering with the fury of
seven devils.
She paused between patients.
“We lose none,” she said deeply,
looking up at me with shining,
fanatical blue eyes, straggles of
hair clinging to her steaming face.
I looked bitterly at the hens.
“Best of everything, you b.b.’s,”
I thought, “and me sitting here
half-cooked.”
Out of a whirling vortex of
questions I chose one:
“Why coffee?”
“Ice! You must me bring
more ice, Lottchen! ” • She
dripped coffee into a gasping
beak and answered without turn-
ing : “Coffee is good for the heart,
no?” Then, “I tell you, mister, I
not lose one. I promise you this.”
Somehow I loped home to
Nell, and sat looking deflated
for a long time. Partly heat. In
a sober voice I related the doings
over at Frau Jones’s, and while
she laughed till she cried, I kept
saying reverently: “But it
works! How does it work? But
it works! ” '
\tcrHEN the neighborhood
tallied its losses after the
heatwave, it was found that the
Frau Joneses had lost least of
all, and an aura of witchcraft
hovered over them. They kept
doing everything wrongside up,
but somehow coming out sunny-
side up. And our topics of con-
versation ranged in this order:
(a) the b. war, ( b ) the Mad
Foreigners and (c) poultry-
farming.
None of us ever bothered
about dressing, being content to
load our eggs off to the market
and be done with it. It was a
tidy enough living. But the Frau
Joneses launched into dressing,
and the farm ran with gore.
Anyone could see them, as they
passed by along the road —Frau
and Herr Jones, Karlchen and
Lottchen, standing at big tables
outside the kitchen-door.
Herr Jones, out of innate
squeamishness, which, I confess,
I shared with him, loudly de-
clined butchery, and . was
assigned to plucking; Karlchen
stood and wrung neck after neck
with his deft, neat hands moving
as cool and unconcerned as if he
were tying Boy Scouts knots.
Lottchen also plucked and did
the fiddly-bits, but where the
gore flowed thickest, where
entrails abounded, amid the
thousand ills that fowl is heir
to —thSre was Frau Jones.
Her fat, short arms worked
like little pistons, yanking away
intestines by the yard, as though
she were on the ribbon-counter
at slitting stomach-
bags, undismayed by the morbid
surprises chook-dressing some-,
times presents. Then, off to the
fridge with the slaughtered, all
lights carefully collected. Yea,
and in death they were not
divided. • Not with Frau Jones
on the job.
After that, Herr Jones was
seen sullenly pushing a wheel-
barrow between the farm and the
railway, laden with big suit-
cases. Up and down he went,
narked about it, you could see,


a tribute to
fgs
leadership...
Australia is an air-minded
nation and A.W.A. is proud
to provide vital aerial navi-
gation aids and electronic
equipment, precision built
to exacting standards.
With population centres
separated by great dis-
tances, Australia has essen-
tial need for modern com-
munication systems and
A.W.A. pioneered and con-
tinues to supply such vital
equipment.
<®
The forward planning of A.W.A. to-day
ensures that our nation shall keep abreast
of developments in the all-important
field of electronics.
A.W.A. research engineers are con-
stantly developing advanced techniques to
meet Australia's needs for modern
electronic equipment. More than four
decades of electronic research work
has given them invaluable experience,
knowledge and technical ability.
As an island continent,
shipping is the life blood
of Import and export trade
and A.W.A. 'navigation
aids, radio systems, radar
and electronic equipment is
world renowned.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
In the field of electronic communications
—at sea, on land and in the air there
is no substitute for A.W.A. quality.
but the whip had cracked and
he had to jump. The station-
master pulled me aside one day:
“What the b s up to?
Smuggling?”
“Dressed poultry,” I assured
him. “Messiest damn’ job under
heaven. Haven’t you noticed the
boy’s been running up and down to
Sydney? Canvassing for orders.”
We looked at each other,
mouths turned down. Of course,
we shrugged, if you can take
it If you like it that way
If you want to work yourself
into your grave
TIJROM time to time, the Frau
-*■ Joneses paused to have com-
pany. Sponsors, I supposed, or
cobbers they’d kept in touch with
who’d come out here in their
turn. One day, after they’d had
visitors, I went across and found
Herr Jones muttering to himself
in his usual rage of the
chronically scared.
“What’s up, Herr?”
It was the sanitary-can. We
all knew how he felt about it.
It was just that bit too far out
for the sanitary service and we
all performed the unlovely chore
ourselves.
“Fisitors! ” he grieved. “I not
wanting them. Only the others,
they want. Always I must
empty”—- He cursed down a
wave of nausea. “I tell the others
they can go in the paddock, but
fisitors! They come—eat, eat,
eat all day and then they go in
the lavatory. And always I
I must it empty. Let them empty
themself. I am not the toilet-
putzer.”
He did have his paddy up. I
said: “Ah, come on now, Herr.
That’s not very hospitable of
you.”
“And the boy. Always there is
trupples,” he went on, tipping
his begrimed sun-helmet back to
mop the sweat. “Now the Army.
We so short, and the handyman
so lazy—and he want to go in
the Army. All day he talk—
Army, Army. Nothing else.
lam sick of it. He cannot go.
Ve poultryfarmer and poultry-
farmer is not for Army.”
“That’s right, Herr, we’re
exempt. Still, he’s only a boy,
and he doesn’t see much life
round here —you know—no
pleasure”
He blew his top. A very active
crater, Herr was.
“Pleasure!” he cried. “I must
working all day. I haf no
pleasure. Why must he
pleasure?”
I saw his point reluctantly.
Frau Jones had a job on her
hands, keeping them all free of
the young country’s corrupting
playfulness. Herr, himself, had
the earmarks of the thwarted
bon vivant, and I knew he
balked as hard as the young-
’un, and for that reason was all
the more determined to block
Karlchen’s efforts to scat. He
didn’t mention Lottchen, but we
all knew Billy Worthing, one of
the neighboring farmers, had his
eye on the solid, dark-visaged
fraulein.
IyfONTHS moved on, and we
spent an occasional evening
over at the Frau Joneses. Nell
wasn’t too keen. She couldn t
follow everything that was said,
and when she sat knitting, one
time, in the Frau Joneses’
kitchen, rather resented the old
lady grabbing the wool and
showing her “how ve stricken
(she called it) in Europe.” “So,
with the_ left hand, and the wool
here. Chinesisch also stricken
in this way. What you doing—
this is English.”
“Well, I am English,” Nell
burst out, a little inaccurately,
and the old lady flared back:
“And I —l am a Wienerin.”
I thought there would be fire-
works, but the Frau was a
clever—and theatrical—old devil.
After her spirited comeback, she
smiled beguilingly, and, gazing
into our eyes with her head on
one side, began to sing in a
quavering tremolo: “Wien,
Wien, Mein Wien,” playing up
the tourist conception of Vienna
—wine, women and waltzes—for
all she was worth, with the
moistening eye and the little
rueful smile. The boy squirmed
uncomfortably, the girl, silent
as usual, but Herr seemed
entranced, lapping it up.
“Come! Ve haf a drink,” he
said emotionally, and went to the
fridge hauling out a bottle of
sauteme. “Lottchen, bring
glasses.”
Frau Tones quavered thrillingly
on, sprinkling nostalgia every-
where, and Herr Jones said
gruffly: “I show you gespritzen.
Wine mit soda-water. This we
drink always in Vienna.” He
shattered quarter-glasses of
sauteme with full toppings of
soda-water, which we sank with
surprised pleasure.
“Ahh, ahh, ahh,” sang Frau
Jones, with a glass of gespritzen
in one hand;—fat, blowsy,
unlovely, singing in her obstinate
tremolo. Yet, the lively blue
eyes and the spirit behind the
old girl’s play-acting did get
across something of brave gaiety
—galgenhumor they call it —to
sing while the heart breaks —joke
on your way to the gallows.
I think she knew the young-
’uns were tugging on the
umbilical cord. Lottchen’s rustic
suitor, many years older than
herself, had started paying open
court, and the girl was anything
but unwilling. Then suddenly
I got the feeling Frau Jones
was singing to them, • and
saying “Remember, remember,
remember.”
That was a funny sort of
evening, and Nell said after, she
felt embarrassed with Frau Jones
singing like that, the way people
do when they’re drunk.
“It’s the only way she cuts
loose,” I said. “When you've
had it, you go to town and blow
a week’s money. She gives with
the galgenhumor.”
“That whatta?”
“Forget it. Did you hear Herr
calling their big black cockerel
a blutty bucker today?”
“Yes —I think it’s a shame
picking up the worst words like
that.”
“That, my girl,” says I, “is
assimilation.”
“\Vhere I come from,” Nell
says, “it’s bad language.”
AND it was, too, from behind
a dozen kitchen-windows,
the day the Frau Joneses swept
down the road in their big, shiny,
new car. We thought of our tin-
lizzies and, when we got together,
the grumbling was general.
“I dunno how they do it”
“They come out here”
“Prack’ly taking the bread out
of our mouths”——
“Whatya make of it, Fred?”
I smiled. The old Act 11, I-
knowrwho-done-it smile. I
would have liked a good, homely
allusion to top it off. But all I
thought of was—a safari.


"AOSTmLMS PR£M/£RfiM/l ORDCR HOVSC
Extends Congratulations to the Sydney "BULLETIN" on their 75th Anniversary.
We release special bargains on this occasion and remember “Goods to Your Satisfaction or Money Refunded.”
Work Togs for the Man on the Land
\
m
TROUSERS!
Ex-Navy Dept. Strong Blue Drill.
Brand New. Perfect. All sizes
to 44in. waist. Extra
Special at only
Eimit of 2 prs.
(Post 2/- pr.)
27/6
DENIMS! DENIMS!
The Work Trousers that last
and last. All seams treble
sewn tor extra long wear.
We sell thousands of these.
Available in every size to
40in. waist. Our
Price ONLY
(Post 2/- pr.)
27/6
TROUSERS!
Army Battle Dress. “The
Strides with All the Pockets. .
Guaranteed preshrunk. In
highest quality khaki drill.
Sizes to 40in. wais* Bxtra
Special Release at
ONIiY
(Post %/- pr.)
44/6
TROUSERS!
Ex-Army Heavy Khaki Serge.
Perfect. Battle dress pattern.
As illust’d. Sizes to 36in. waist.
Cost over £5. Re-
markable value at
(Post 2/6 pr.)
39/6
Combination Overalls!!
Special purchase. White combs
at J-price. Every
«ize 4’s to B’s. Only
(Post 3/-)
LIMIT 3 PRS.
35/-
SOCKS! SOCKS!
Genuine “Indiana” Black.
All sizes. Special at
6 prs. for 255.
(Post 2/-)
Khaki Work Socks
Heavyweight Army Type.
“We Sell Thousands.”
Every size to 12in. Special,
4 prs. for 20s.
(Post 2/-)
i
GENUINE tt
Indiana
BOOTS! BOOTS!!
OFFICER’S TYPE BOOTS
Light heavies. Plain
caps. In black only.
Sizes s’s to 10’s. Laces
free with all boots.
Post that order now!
Special Bar-
gain Price
ONLY
(Post 2/6)
49/6
dfgs
Strong, Tough Work Boots at big savings. Well-
known maker sacrifices 1000 pairs at cost.
All sizes from s’s to 10’s in black or tan.
(Post 2/6 pr.)
37/6
ARMY
PYJAMA COATS
Bwnd new ! Blue and
white design. Sizes M and
OS. Under Cost
2 for 10/-
(Post 3/->
BRAND NEW ARMY
GREATCOATS!!
Special! Special 1
Years since we’ve seen
these. The genuine mili-
tary overcoat in sizes up
to 50 chest. Cost double
these prices to make.
36 to 43 44 to 50
£6l £7l
(Post 6/11)
CRASH HELMETS
U.S. Army Release. In new
condition. Motor cyclists’
Special. All sizes. "A ‘must’
for all motor cyclists.”
Umited supply. Hurry!
35/-
(Post and packing 3/6)
Vn NS \ Z
PARACHUTES!
Full size pure white sill?.
64 sq. yds. complete with
200 yds. silk cords. Packed
in own container. These
’chutes are water soiled,
otherwise in good con-
dition. Hundreds of uses.
Bargain Priced to Clear at
ONIiY
m
(Add 3/6 cartage to rail)
AIR FORCE RELEASES!
FLYING GOGGLES
Ex "R.A.F.” Brand new!
Mark IV, complete with
removable sun visor and
pr. of night lenses. Com-
plete with box of spares.
EXTRA SPECIAL AT
25 /■
(Post 2/6)
FLYING BOOTS!
‘R.A.A.F.” type. Brand
new ! Fully fur lined, witli
FEATHER SOFES. Sizes
s’s to ll’s. Special release.
£6l
(Post 4/6)
"R.A.A.F." INNER
SUITS
--I'
Brand new kapok
filled. Quilted J
. so filling can
nevgr
drop.
Sizes SM
to M only.
Fully zip-
fitted.
Special for
cold storage
workers,
tractor and
haulage
drivers, etc.
Cost over £l2i.
NOW ONLY
95/-
(Post 4/6)
OUTER FLYING SUITS
EX
‘R.A.A.F.” ORIGINAL
ISB.EE
&
In heavyweight waterproof
canvas, zip-fitted front and
legs. Fur lined pocket.
Extra sound condition. Re-
markable value, ONLY
£6*
(Post 6/-: all sizes)
AIR FORCE TYPE SHOES
Special purchase black Air
Force-Navy type Shoes in
selected leathers. Plain cap
in every size. 5’s to 10’s, in-
cluding half-sizes. 85/-
VALUE FOB JUST
49/6
PAIB
Limit of 2 prs.
(Post 3/- pr.)
g
6FT. WIDE PROOFED CANVAS
1,000 yards only Green Proofed
Desouti Duck Canvas. Brand newt
Hundreds of uses! 5-price at only
(Post 1/- yd.) .
9/11 yd.
6FT. WIDE WHITE DESOUTI
DUCK CANVAS!
Here’s value! Extra strong Duck.
Very slight water-soiled only. 1,000
yards to go at under landed cost!
(Post 1/- yd.)
5/6 yd
6FT. WIDE STRIPED AWNING
CANVAS!
Popular Green Stripe on Light Grey
background. Sells usually around
the 15/- yd. mark. Our Very Special
Offer. 1,000 yards only at
8/11 yd.
"HOODPRUFE" CAR COVERS!
Save pounds ! Give your car the protection it deserves.
Fully eyeletted, double sewn. Specially Proofed Green
Canvas. Three wanted sizes.
15 x 12
£7/5/6
18 x 12
£B/12/6
15x21
£9/19/6
(Add 3/6 cartage to rail)
"JAPARA" CAR COVERS!
Made from K.A.A.F. Target Sheets. Extra strong
light. Special for dust! sun! morning dew!
sizes only at big savings. (Post 4/6)
15 x 12 18 x 12
and
Two
££
ARMY BLANKETS!!
Genuine Army Grey Blankets. Released now for the
cold weather to come. All pure wool. Big sizes.
60 x 80 for single or 2 beds. In throe price groups.
Slight
Faults.
Very Fair
Condition.
30/-
Perfect
Condition.
32/6
ARMY (LONG) UNDERPANTS
SSsSS
GENUINE
EX ABMI !
Pure Hospital
Grey Flannel.
Brand new !
Stock-up now.
Final release
of these. All
sizes to OS.
PRS.
' (Post
FOR
3/-)
30/-
GUN SIGHTING
HINGED
TELESCOPES
ss'is
Ex Disposals.
Brand New.
Easily converted into many uses!
over £3O. Eenses alone are
worth double this special
release price of only ..
(Add 3/6 cartage to rail)
Cost
/-
DIGGER (TYPE) HATS
Brand new. Perfect. - Every size.
Special for the Man on the Band.
24/6
(Post 2/->
DON R W'PROOF
COATS
Suede Rubberised Fabric. D/B,
fully belted style* Good big
sizes. Usual
price 85/-.
Now only ....
(Post 2/6)
49/6
SPECIAL BARGAIN OFFERS FROM OUR
MANCHESTER SECTION
LINEN SPECIAL
Ipr. Snowhite full 80 x 90 hemmed D/B
SHEETS. High quality.
2Snowhite large size “Housewife” PILLOW
• CASES.
4 Pure Irish Linen imported large size
TEA TOWELS. Fancy borders, ' un-
hemmed.
2 English large size multi-colored HAND
or FACE TOWELS size.
THE LOT FOB ONLY
90/-
I Limit one lot only.
(Post 3/-)
sdfg
EX DISPOSALS.
Housewife or taped snowhite
PILLOW CASES
in laundered sound condition.
6 FOR 20/-
(Post Free)
EX DISPOSALS.
S/B (54 xUO)
Snowhite Bleached
BED SHEETS
in laundered sound condition.
4 FOR 40/-
(.Post 2/6)
ARMY BATH TOWELS
Extra thick, absorbent, almost new.
SPECIAL AT
2 FOR 20/-
(Post 2/-)
PILLOWS
Brand new, full size, well filled
imported striped ticking.
REMARKABLE VALUE,
2 FOR 15/-
(Post 2/6)
ARMY MOTOR CYCLE
PLASTIC GOGGLES
Huge Release. Brand New ! !
5/- Doz.
(Post 1/6)
SPECIAL LOW QUOTES FOR
QUANTITY LOTS. WRITE NOW
“U.S” ARMY PONCHOS
Waterproof Ground Sheets. Cape
combinations. Original
issue to American troops.
Good condition. ONLY
(Post 4/6)
25/-
EACH
TRAVEL RUGS
Pure wool, full size, fringed edges.
In pleasing designs of
browns, greens, blues,
etc. OUR PRICE ....
(Post 2/6)
EACH
CAMP BLANKETS
Imported dark grey, brand new,
50 p.c. wool, 50 p.c. cotton. Sizes
are 60 x 80. 200 only.
2 FOR 35/-
LIMIT OF 4 (Post 4/6)
MATTRESSES!!
Brand new ! Woollen flock,
filled. Strong tufted.
6ft. x 2ft. 3in. Hundreds
sold. ONXY
(Post 3/6) v'
Well
29/6
EACH
HAVERSACKS
Ex Army Respirator bags. 5 pockets
style. Laundered
condition
EACH
(Post 1/6)
s
st*rp/us Pfop osa/s
Stores r*y- Ltd-.
439PtTT St cm*. CAMPBELL ST.
SYDNCY At A 7308
Goods to Your
Satisfaction —or
money Refunded
NO C.O.D.
PLEASE ADD
EXCHANGE
TO CHEQUES
"JW&mfcM'S PREMtER MM ORDER HOUSE “
Prompt Reliable Service. Goods posted, railed or shipped to any part of the Commonwealth and beyond.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ...
ADDRESS
12 months £l/1 6/-
6 months 18/6
%
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The* Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 765 Wellington, N.Z.)
I didn’t realise that such a safe and
convenient service could he so economical!”
So many of our clients have told us this, that we would like to
have the opportunity of explaining to you the
MAYNE NICKLESS
PAYROLL DELIVERY AND BANK
DEPOSIT SERVICE
You, and your staff, will welcome the freedom from all risks
of violence and injury. You-will be surprised and pleased at
the moderate cost, which includes full insurance until wages
are paid.
Please ring us for one of our representatives to call at your
convenience.
MAYNE NICKLESS
LIMITED
"For Every Transport Need"
80-138 York Street, South Melbourne
Telephones: MXYIBO (50 lines)
572 King Street,
Newtown, Sydney.
LA2402 (15 lines).
64 Hughes Street,
Mile End, Adelaide.
LU7312 (2 lines)
62 Blackall Street,
Broadmeadow,
Newcastle.
Hamilton 694.
264 Latrobe Terrace,
Geelong.
Geelong 4454.
68 Cordellia Street,
South Brisbane.
Jl2Ol (3 lines)
Morwell and
Broken Hill.
The Button and The Hezetic
by David
Cary lell
THE children were up in the
yellow - and - purple elm.
The way you got there was
very simple ; you followed
the possum-tree. The possum-
tree was a wistaria-vine. It
crawled out from under the
house, strangled a veranda-post,
clambered over thp hot iron
roof, and leapt up into the over-
hanging branches.
Billy, swinging hand over
hand, dropped one to his side
and said, “Look, Jan! I’m
hanging by one arm.”
“Shut up,” Janet said. “I’m
thinking about God.”
She sat in the fork of the
money-box bough, her dress
tucked up and her tail hanging
down, and gazed out through
hops and the grapelike clusters
of the vine. Down in the mists
of the creek the windmill
clanged and a cuckoo sang his
seven notes.
“You can’t think of him all
the time,” Billy said. “Have you
got the money?”
“Yes.”
And Janet opened her hand.
Her hand was mottled from
her grip and the money was
sticky—threepence, two pennies,
two ha’pennies and a button,
that they had found sewn in the
corner of a sitting-room curtain.
“The button’s no good,” Billy
said. “The button’s no use at
all.”
“Oh, yes, it is,” Janet said.
“Think of finding a treasure and
just one button with it!”
She gazed at it in her palm as
if she had never seen a button
before in her life. It was shiny-
brown and had four eyes in it;
an Army button.
“I think you’re mad,” Billy
said. “Who’d want a button?”
“You don’t know what they
might want. It might be two-
hundred years! Think of chop-
ping down a tree and finding a
button two-hundred years old!”
“Oh, all right,” Billy said.
“I’d rather find threepence
myself. I’d just throw the silly
old button away. But come on.”
He had pulled a dead branch
like a cork out of the limb, and
there was an astonished little
hole like a mouth with no teeth.
“One at a time, Jan.”
Janet rolled a penny down her
finger into the hole, and they
heard it rattle along the hollow
into the great black cavern of
the bole.
“You can hear it all the way
down,” Billy said. “Like Les
Craig drinking tea.”
The threepence made a three-
penny sound, and then the
button went down.
“Did you hear it?” Janet said.
“It ran best of all.”
And the children sat silent
under the mysterious leaves,
Billy thinking of the treasure and
the surprise of its discoverers—
in how many years’ time?
Perhaps they would be dead.
No one would know how it came
to be there in the butt of an elm.
Yellow hops fell down like
money all around him and the
cuckoo called from a # faraway
world in the mist.
TOUT Janet tvas thinking of the
button lying there all alone
in the dark with nothing to see
through its four little eyes. She
had been scolded that morning
for not drinking her milk, so
now she became very sad indeed.
The elm-hops were buttons for
her and the cuckoo made bright
buttons of the air, but her own
particular button, the only
button that she loved in all the
world, was gone. Never, never,
never . . .
A tear-drop started in her eye,
hung on the lid and rolled like a
button into her lap.
“Are you thinking about God
now?” Billy said.
“Yes.”
Janet tossed her fair hair and
another tear from her nose.
“I’ll bet you’re not. I’ll bet
you’re thinking about that silly
old button!”
“I’m not —and it’s not silly.
I’m thinking about God/ Miss
Frost says you’ve got to think
about God all the time.”
“Why?”
“So you’ll go to heaven, of
course.”
And quite suddenly Janet saw
the whole thing. It was as
simple as that, as simple as their
money-box bough. Away you
rolled like a button into the
dark hollow that was death;
then God came along with his
axe and chopped you out. And
in a vision she saw her button
climb like an eagle up a shaft of
sunlight and disappear into the
vague blue of heaven.
“If you’re not careful,” she
said cryptically to Billy, “no one
will come and chop you out at
all.”
Billy made nothing of this;
he was impatient of such
fantasies. Chopping-out was
not the point.
“You can’t think of him all the
time,” he said, gazing up into
the thumbnail leaves. “How
about when you’re asleep at
night?”
“You dream, don’t you?”
“How about ...” Billy was
craning his neck up still further.
“How about when you’re sitting
on the pot?”
“Now you’re being rude,”
Janet said. “God’ll hear you and
pay you out. You see!”
But Billy was shinning out
along the branch, delighted with
his remark, and shaking bough-
loads of hops down on to Len’s
raked paths.
. / V
“TJTEY! What are you up to
AA up there?” a voice cried
out from the green well below.
“They’ve got to fall down
sometime, Len,” Billy said.
“Haven’t they, Jan?”
“I tell you,” Janet said, “I’m
thinking about God.”
“I’ll give you something to
think about if you keep shaking
them hops down,” Len shouted.
He had walked out into the
sunlight and stood gazing up, a
short, lean Devonshireman with
wild blue eyes. The bone of his
nose and jaw made white high-
lights through the skin, and he
wore outsize boots to mask his
tiny feet.
i “He’s really wild,” Billy said.
“Look how white he’s gone.”
“Len,” Janet said. “Why do
your boots turn up?”
“You’ll know all about my
boots if you don’t come down
out of that.”
“If we come down, you mean.
They’re pretty big, but they
wouldn’t reach this far.”
Billy laughed hops down all
over Len, who cried “By God!”
and, kneeling down, began to
take a boot off.
“I always wanted to see his
foot,” Janet said.
Len laced his boot up again
and shouted, “Any more from
you and I’ll hose you out, that’s
what!”
VXfHITE-EYED, the children
looked at one another.
“We won’t shake any more
hops down,” Billy said; and
when the sound of raking began
below again, he leaned far out
on the bough and rolled a
shilling of.spit down into the
pan of Len’s hat. Len wrenched
the hat off and scuttled like a
crab for the garden-bed. But
the children were racing, too—
down the limb with arms wide,
around the bole and hand-over-
hand along the vine to the roof.
As Billy let go and his feet felt
the heat of the iron, a clod of
clay spun past him and broke
into dust on the ridge.
“That’s done it,” he said.
“They’ll all be out.” '
• Sliding down the far side,
another clod burst between
them —for Len had been a
Mills-bomber in France ; then
doors were banging and people
were shouting; and they slid
down the guttering past the
kitchen-window into the rubbish-
bin, and were away around the
pepper-tree and the well to the
lavatory by the dairy.
It was an old outside family-
lavatory covered with ivy, and
with three holes of different
sizes for father, mother and
child —a kindly place of old
newspapers and winter flies.
'T'HE children slammed the
A door, wrenched down their
pants and sat there hearing in the
distance Miss Frost’s voice cry-
ing, “Jannnn-et! Billll-y!” in
just that high tone that meant
bed without supper or their
father’s razor-strop.
“I expect we’re safe here,”
Billy said.
“They couldn’t come in while
we’re doing something.” Janet
was quite shocked. “Even Len
wouldn’t dare.”
“I got him a good one, didn’t
I?”
“Oh . . . not bad.”
Billy waited till his heart
stopped beating, and then he
said, “Are you still thinking
about God, Jan?”
Immediately Janet’s eyes
looked far away through the
knots in the door and she said,
“Yes, of course, I am.”
“Were you thinking of him all
the time?”
. “Yes.”
“Even when you fell in the
rubbish-bin?”
“I don’t have to tell you every-
thing,” Janet said. “I needn’t tell
you anything if I don’t want to.
You’re not God.”
But Billy, sitting in the centre
seat and laughing down at his
pants dangling from his bare
toes, felt at that moment that he
knew something of the mystery
and delight of godhead.


TO ANY EXECUTIVE
FROM HIS SECRETARY
I read that advertisement |
recently, and I must say I feel j
sorry for you! How you
manage to carry on under that
awful pressure, I can’t imagine.
We all worry about you—we
hate to see you looking so
tired and old, because you’re
a nice, kind person, even if you
do get irritable at times. But
it’s really your own fault. Why
don’t you do as the ad. says
and get a Dimafon?
Apart from what a Dimafon
will do for you, think of what
it will do for me. Don’t you
realise how much better I
could handle your correspond-
ence if I could transcribe it
through the day, instead of
popping in and out of your
office whenever you have time
to dictate? You could get it
off your mind at any old time.
I could type it off while you’re
busy doing other things, or
out on business. There’d be
no five o’clock rush, no frantic
last-minute scurry to get the
mail done. Your letters,
reports and what-not would be
done on time —and done
accurately.
Am I boasting? Not a bit!
You see, it’s so easy with a
Dimafon. Every word comes
out clearly. I can take a few
words —or a phrase —or a
sentence —at a time just
whatever I can type comfort-
ably. If there’s anything I
don’t understand, I can go
back over it to make quite
sure. No tricky gadgets to
operate either —just that simple
foot control for start —stop-
reverse.
Believe me, Boss, a Dimafon
would make us both a lot
happier.
Phone Chartres Ltd. for a
demonstration —M 0425
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA— In Divorce.
No. 18 of 1954.
TO ALLAN LAWRENCE CASHION.—
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a
Notice to you to appear and answer the
charges in the Petition of RALPH
JAMES WARREN of Hobart in the State
of Tasmania praying for a dissolution of
marriage with SHEERGOLD WARREN
on the grounds of adultery with you the
said ALLAN LAWRENCE CASHION. In
default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said
charges proved and pronounce judgment
in respect thereto your absence notwith-
standing AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
within Thirty days after the publication
of this notice an appearance must be
entered at the Principal Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie
Street, Hobart. DATED the 24th day of
December, 1954. —H. R. DEBBIE, Prin-
cipal Registrar.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Having cleaned up the main
Sydney summer sprints, Gay
Vista will soon be leaving for
Melbourne to tackle the Oakleigh
Plate and maybe the Newmarket.
The stable intends to concen-
trate on the Oakleigh and the
V.R.C.’s new w.-f.-a. Lightning
Stakes Of £2OOO, run over five
furlongs at Flemington on
February 19. Under the
w.-f.-a. scale Gay Vista will
carry 9st. He successfully
handled that weight in last Satur-
day’s A.J.C. sprint, beating
Prince Cortauld and Vistaed.
Gay Vista has no superior at
getting out of the barrier. His
usual jockey, Cook, says he can
be ridden with a “silken thread.”
His second to Gay Vista in the
Challenge Stakes indicates that
Prince Cortauld will be hard to
beat in early engagements at the
Victorian autumn fixtures.
Prince Cortauld was having his
first run after the summer spell
last Saturday; the six furlongs
proved much too short for him.
Before going for a spell he had
won the Cantala Stakes, Lin-
lithgow Stakes and Williamstown
Cup.
• •
Janata, stylish winner of the
Randwick Sledmere Handicap
for Maiden two-year-old fillies,
is raced by breeder-owner W. J.
(Bill) Smith, in partnership with
J. L. Dixon, and hasn’t done
much racing. Two seconds at
Canterbury preceded her first
win and she will now go for a
brief spell. The partnership also
races the successful two-year-old
Master Hua. Janata is a Beau
Son filly from Ajanta by Ajax
-from Franchise by Constant Son
(imp.) and traces back to
Wallace.
* * • •
Newcomers to the ranks of
owners, Mr. and Mrs. L. A. J.
Lipscombe had their first success
when Nilo Boy got up in the
final few strides to beat outsiders
Clear Call and Negare in the
A.J.C. Sunnyside Maiden for
two-year-old colts and geldings.
Stakemoney (£712) was about
half the colt’s cost as a yearling.
Nilo Boy is by Nilo (imp.) from
Adorned by Le Grand Due.
(imp.) from Savaterie by Gay
Lothario (imp.), and he comes
from the family which produced
Carbon Copy.
Progeny of imported Port
Vista have made racing headlines
lately. His best sprinter so far
is Gay Vista, winner of his last
three races, while Vistaed,
third to Gay Vista in the
Challenge Stakes, is also a Port
Vista, as is Red Port, who
won in two-year-old company at
Newcastle the same afternoon.
Port Vista has had several sprint
winners. He was got by
Panorama, unbeaten as a two-
year-old and sire of winners of
close on £200,000, from Outport
by Portlaw.
Nalkari, who went close to
beating favorite Janata in the
Randwick Sledmere Handicap,
starting at the forlorn odds,
of 50 to 1, is bred for speed.
Her pedigree includes Ajax and
Hesione. Latter won a Gimcrack
Stakes and V.R.C. Maribyrnong
Plate, and Ajax was one of the
most brilliant horses in Aus-
tralian Turf history. He won 36
races and £40,275 in stakes.
Nalkari cost 425gns. as a yearling
last year and is a daughter of A 1
Wassat (imp.) from Beam by
Marconigram (imp.) by Med-
menham (imp.) by Prince
Galahad.
Flying Halo improved on late
starts to win Moohee Valley’s
William Reid Stakes. The seven-
year-old horse has started in
the William Reid Stakes five
times for three wins, a second
and a fourth. Total stake win-
nings now are £33,515. Flying
Halo is one of Australia’s top-
line sprinters. Carioca carried
his winnings to £33,335 by . his
success in the Q.T.C.’s Bribie
Handicap at Eagle Farm the
same afternoon, a race decided
within half an hour of the Reid
Stakes.
The two-year-old filly Volta
showed improvement to win the
Moonee Valley Second Niddrie
Handicap. She is another adver-
tisement for Australian-bred
Comic Court, whose first batch
of racing progeny is doing quite
well. Volta is related to several
Victorian gallopers of recent
years, including Cromis, The
Sirdar and Cellar Master. Her
dam, Mahram, is by Dhoti
(imp.) from Riviera by
Portofino (imp.).
Horse values are changeable.
When the yearling brother to
champion Shannon (£84,908 in
stakes) was paraded in the Rand-
wick Easter sale-ring in 1951
there was an opening bid of
3000gns., a startling first offer.
The colt was sold at 520Ogns, and
raced as Canute. But he proved
a poor relation to Shannon and
won only one event, a maiden
two-year-old in poor company at
Rosehill. Canute appeared in
the same sale-ring last Friday
and was offered as a stallion, but
so little interest was taken in
him, despite that he looked in
grand fettle, that he was passed
in after a couple of bids had
reached 700gns. Canute has a
pedigree of some note. He is by
Midstream (imp.) from Idle
Words by Magpie (imp.).
Outsiders won the two-year-
old Maiden divisions at the latest
Hawkesbury fixture, Bel Asta the
first and Authentic the second.
Bel Asta is a smart-looking
daughter of White Ensign (imp.)
from Lolita (half-sister to
TithonuS, a Randwick and
suburban winner at two years)
by Double Remove (imp.) from
Speak Easy (winner of several
races on the former Sydney pony
tracks) by Magpie (imp.). Family
lines include former NeW
Zealanders Kilboy and Master
Delaval, a winner of the Auck-
land Cup. Kilboy won the 1916
A.J.C. Derby. Authentic is a
filly by Belvedere (imp.) from
Authenticity, who was bred in
England and imported to Aus-
tralia in 1949. She is by Fairway
from Sly Abbess, by Foxlaw
from Abbot’s Toil, by Abbot’s
Trace.
Interesting entrants for the
next Rosehill meeting are
Kingster and Ultrablue in
divisions of the two-year-old
Promotion Stakes, and if started
they will have strong support,
because both stand out in their
respective races. Kingster won
the Breeders’ Plate and Ultrablue
the Gimcrack Stakes in the
spring. Conditions of the Promo-
tion Stakes are much in their
favor. The winner of one race,
irrespective of its importance or
value, carries only 61b. extra
above the 7.12 which non-
winners will handle. Winner of
any two races has to carry 121 b.
extra and of three races 181 b.
extra. Thus a modest two-year-
old could win three minor races
round the provincial meetings or
at Sydney fixtures, and be called
upon to concede 121 b. to
Kingster and Ultrablue, which
calls for attention.
• • • •
For the next few weeks
Sydney owners and trainers will
be well catered for with maiden,
novice, restricted and two-year-
old events. This Saturday at
Rosehill S.T.C. has deleted the
customary Flying Handicap, but
has placed a six-furlongs Welter
on its programme. There will
be no racing at Randwick until
the autumn carnival, April 9 to
April 16. There will be two
Warwick Farm fixtures in
March, and all other suburban
meetings will be held either at
Rosehill or Canterbury.
Melbourne race-fans are dis-
cussing Rising Fast and whether
Purtell or Williamson will be
his pilot at autumn meetings.
Both have hopes. Purtell won
the Melbourne Cup on him as
“Well, vet. —did you analyse the dope?"
well as other races. Williamson
was to have the Caulfield Cup
ride, was injured and the ride
went to Sydney horseman Ward.
Carioca started twice in
Sydney this season for two thirds
and was then taken to his home-
State, Queensland, given 10.3
in the seven furlongs Bribie
Handicap and won easily. He
started second-favorite, and was
given a rousing reception on
returning to scale. Owner-
trainer Booshand intends to start
Carioca at the Q.T.C. Easter
meeting on April 9 and 11, and
will nominate him for later
winter racing up north.
* * *
Sporting gesture: the great
ovation by the Adelaide crowd
to Maddocks on his way to the
crease. Completely opposite to
Brisbane’s heckling, not to say
abuse, of Langley when the
South Australian was rightly
preferred to Tallon for the first
1952-53 Test against S’Africa.
A ♦ • •
No South Australian in the
Australian XI, but still plenty of
Croweaters rolling up to the
fourth Test. On the Saturday
Adelaide Oval held the biggest
cricket crowd (44,000) since the
record 50,000 for one day of the
third 1932-33 "bodyline” Test.
There’ve been big attendances at
all the Tests this year: answer
enough to those who prattle of
the death of cricket.
First-innings efforts of three
selections censured unanimously
by all the “experts”: Maddocks,
top-score (run-out 69); Mc-
Donald, second-top-score (48,
and with Morris giving Aus-
tralia its best start of the series);
and Johnson (an attacking
captain’s-knock of 41 when runs
were needed in a hurry).
Maddocks and Johnson figured
in the fastest and most produc-
tive stand of the innings—92 for
the ninth-wicket.
“Mid-on”: Morris being
added to the Test team in place
of the injured Lindwall—after
the page had apparently gone to
the printer—made hash of my
par. last week (B. 26/1/’55).
After all their clamor the critics
could not but express their joy
when he was restored to the side.
And his first-innings 25 was
useful enough. Another neces-
sary addendum: Morris now
still remains as the only parti-
cipant in every post-war
England-Australia Test.
* * *
Most important games in the
Australian tennis championships
in Adelaide clashed with the
fourth Test. Bad organisation
somewhere. Adelaide, which
can provide big sporting “gates,”
is to be the venue of the Aus-
tralian athletic and swimming
championships this month —and
the women’s cricket carnival
(won by Victoria) was held
there in the week before the
Test.
• • • •
Americans Trabert and Seixas
won the Australian doubles title
from Hoad and Rosewall, first
Americans to win the title since
Vines and Gledhill won in 1933.
Tony and Vic beat last year’s
winners, Rose and Hartwig, in a
semi-final marred by yet another
display of bad sportsmanship by
the left-hander Rose. Perhaps he
needs pruning.
• » • • •
Some of the younger players
shone in the titles. Victorian
left-hander Neale Fraser nearly
toppled Trabert in a hard five-
set game. Ashley Cooper played
brilliantly to defeat the Swede,
Davidson. In the doubles Fraser
and Cooper did well till they met
Hoad and Rosewall in a semi-
final. They could turn into a
first-rate combination.
#♦ • .
Brisbane will have the golf
spotlight this year. The Aus-
tralian Open is set there for
May 26-28, and the amateur and
pro, championship (dates to be
fixed) will also be decided there.


drgs
\iL_J i' A
ft J ft
r..m ;
111
.
—I
*
s/ft?
/ ur H
* -
w
/
D 1
ft
< ; ifc ., '■
X
<£ C
$! Mm
/
(ft
■
\
7
i
H
m
M
a\ i
N >
' ¥ ft
ft
in
X
ft
M
ft
*nj
a
i
K'/\
~<J
/
- N
A
\
I
I
\3
Y<
->
5H
7V- ftftft , />
> ■ ftylft
I ft.vv
. M
8
I
■ ••••
V
ftVS-N,
Lf A
raj
* v /
xk3k&&»&
m
m
m
/
, , ,\ V > „
.7 X ft, " ft v V
' **■
The one-and-only
SPORTS TROUSER
with the superb
secret cut
f
which ensures
the crease
ALWAYS in the
centre of the leg!
Indivicfualli| tailored
JKwuf
1007. Merino Wool
VENETIAN
GABARDINE
Only the finest fabric is “good enough’ ’ for
“CENTRELINE” —its handsome weave lending
flexibility and softness, thus increasing resistance
to creases and “shine.” It is first-gra e pre-
shrunk cloth THIS actually IMPROVES
with dry-cleaning!
Yes, they’re NEW . . . they’re
MODERN ... in fact, they’re the
finest Sports Trousers yet made
so, naturally, they’re at ALL-
LEADING CLOTHING AND MEN’S
WEAR STORES THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA.
A perfect fit guaranteed
for every figure
■we
Guaranteed Six Month* against normal
by the Manufacturers of Centreline Silk Finish
Trousers.
CENTRELINE Sports Trousers
Melbourne, Victoria
* *
Now Read these
ADDITIONAL FEATURES
★ REINFORCED WAIST BAND—
Non pressure, does not wrinkle,
shrink or stretch.
★ SCIENTIFIC BARTACKING—
At an angle to give maximum
strength—saving torn pockets.
★ TENSIONISED SEAMS Take
maximum strain when bending
or stretching, ensuring no
splitting of seams.
CUFF PROTECTORS —Elimi-
nate cuff fraying.
FLAPPED FOB POCKET
Prevents articles from slipping
out.
★
REINFORCED POCKETS —All
pockets are doubly capped
and the cash pocket is
COMPLETELY double.
REPAIRS-—Free piece of cloth
apd buttons in case of accidental
damage, supplied! in each pair.
Shirt grips supplied separately to
be positioned, according to in*
dividual taste.
dfg
dfg
Regd. Trade


■tehai
>S\S*V
■MSS
PROGRESS and PROFITS
THE' BANK'S SERVICE
TO INDUSTRY
AND COMMERCE
P rogress and profits are tributes to man’s enterprise and
wisdom. Men who build businesses, and conduct them successfully
for the good of themselves and the Nation, provide better prospects
for us all.
This Bank has rendered an important banking service—
efficient, friendly and helpful, to many such men over the past
120 years. Our resources have helped them to start and expand
their activities.
To-day, we are Bankers to some of Australia’s largest
businesses and to thousands of smaller ones.
At Head Office, or our branch nearest to you, our officers will gladly
give particulars of our service to competent men who wish to undertake
schemes of sound development.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc,
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
"IN FEAR AND DREAD"?
Typical press comment on
Nato’s decision on the use of
atomic weapons for the defence
of Western Europe:
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“On the one hand, the military
are authorised to reorganise the
defence of Western Europe on
the assumption that the new
weapons now coming to them
will be used to resist attack. On
the other hand, the authority to
choose the time and place of
their use is retained by Nato’s
political masters, the Atlantic
Council.”
♦ * * *
London “Observer”: “The
decision when nuclear weapons
are actually to be brought into
action has rightly been reserved
for Governments; for this, in
the circumstances, would become
identical with the decision
whether a serious attack had
taken place at all —in other
words, with a declaration of
war. The Nato Council has not
attempted to decide how many
Governments would in practice
have to authorise action by the
joint-command, although effec-
tive consultation of all 15
member-States would almost
certainly be impracticable.
“This point underlines the
principal flaw in Nato’s present
machinery. It is less than a
confederacy, and therefore has
no permanent body of civilian
plenipotentiaries authorised to
take binding decisions on behalf
of their Governments. If Nato
is to develop Governmental
capacities it will one day have
to take this next step.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” edi-
torial comment: “The broad
decisions are plain. The first is
that the Governments have
authorised their military com-
manders to plan on the assump-
tion that atomic weapons would
be used in any major war. The
second is that the level of
‘conventional’ forces has
reached its peak, which is below
the summit previously regarded
as essential.
“The two decisions are closely
related. Because the ‘conven-
tional’ forces fall short of the
minimum and far short of parity
with the Russians the use of
tactical atomic weapons is
necessary to make good the
deficiency. Or, to put it another
way, because tactical atomic
weapons are available, the
Governments have decided that
they need not go to the great
expense of increasing ordinary,
forces.” ”
* * *
“Mane he st e r Guardian”
correspondent: “Inevitably one’s
first reaction is to be frightened
by hearing people compare
atomic bombs to old-fashioned
muskets. The mind recoils
before the suggestion that Hiro-
shima and Nagasaki were only
a' tenth of what one hydrogen-
bomb now would do. One
shudders in trying to visualise a
hydrogen-bomb falling on a
peaceful place like East Anglia,
and one cannot quickly grasp
the idea of using a single atomic
shell to blast most of one enemy
division off the battlefield.
“But at once adjustments must
be made. It is rural places like
East Anglia and the desert wastes
round Tucson, Arizona, that now
are the primary targets —not the
big cities. The first bombs are
likely to fall on air-force
bases. Each side would
probably want to eliminate as
quickly as possible the other’s
striking-power. Hence the threat
to East Anglia, the edges of the
Cotswolds, and a host of areas
stretching from Thule in the
Arctic and Alaska to the great
airfields on the fringe of the
Sahara and in the Arizona
desert.”
* * *
“New York Times” corres-
pondent Hanson W. Baldwin :
“Atomic weapons and the
devices that would carry them to
their targets are now of an
almost incredible number, power,
and complexity. Thermonuclear
bombs of million-ton T.N.T.
explosive power, which can be
carried as yet only by bombers
of the Strategic Air Command,
are now available for distant
behind-the-lines support, or even
battlefield use. But atomic
weapons of lesser power,
ranging down to 12 or 14 kilo-
tons (thousand tons of T.N.T.),
have been ready in and abound
Europe for quite a long time.
U.S. Navy aircraft-carriers in
the Mediterranean and Atlantic
have small ‘special weapons’
(atomic) magazines, and the air-
craft, chiefly McDonnell Banshee
jet-fighters and Douglas AD
attack-bombers, to carry them.
“On land, the 49th U.S. Air
Division, based in England and
flying F-84 Republic Thunder-
jets and B-45 light-bombers, has
long been charged with the
atomic support of Nato’s ground
forces. This force could be
supplemented by many of the
U.S. tactical-type fighter-bombers
and light-bombers based on
European fields.
“The U.S. Army in Europe
also has an atomic capability,
which it shares —in theory at
least —with our Allies. There
are now five six-gun battalions
of the 280 mm. so-called ‘atomic-
cannon’ in Germany. This gun,
with a range of under 20 miles,
is capable of firing both conven-
tional and atomic ammunition.
“The Army also has assigned
to Europe several battalions of
the 762 mm. ‘Honest John’ free-
flight artillery-rocket, with a
range roughly comparable to the
—“EI Tiempo," Colombia.
BALANCE OF POWER
280 mm. gun. This rocket can
carry an atomic warhead. The
‘Corporal’ guided - missile, a
guided - rocket with supersonic
speed and a range of perhaps
100 miles and an atomic capa-
bility, is still another operational
Army weapon that has been
assigned to Europe.
“And this armory in Europe of
available devices for atomic
weapons is supplemented by two
squadrons of Air Force Matador
guided- missiles, or pilotless
planes, which can carry atomic
warheads at high speeds to a
range of about 500 miles.”
* * *
London “Spectator” : “Years
have been wasted in trying to
organise the defence of Western
Europe on a semi-Federal basis
which everybody ought to have
known to be doomed as soon as
the peoples concerned under-
stood what it meant; German
rearmament, as a consequence,
has been postponed, and we are
left with the not very comfort-
able reflection that the only thing
which stands between us and our
extinction is a weapon which,
if used, might extinguish most of 1
mankind.”
♦ * •
London “New Statesman and
Nation”: “The facts are: (1)
That it has been ascertained by
American nuclear scientists that
100 H-bombs would destroy
civilised life in the north-east
quarter of the U.S., and 12
would be sufficient for these
islands [Britain]; (2) that the
Russians within the next two or
three years will have the capacity
to carry out both these opera-
tions ; and (3) that the use by
Nato of atomic tactical weapons
against the Red Army would
certainly force them to do so.
It may be necessary, while the
East-West deadlock continues,
to keep a stockpile of nuclear
weapons as an ultimate deter-
rent ; but those military experts
who plot the strategy and tactics
of the next war in nuclear terms
are toying with the mass-
destruction of humanity.”
• * w
“New York Times” editorial
comment: “Even the atomic
weapon, unless it is supported by
vast ground-forces, is perhaps
not an instrument of conquest.
If used aggressively it is simply
a tool of the devil, that could
possibly wipe out man and all
his works. In reality, the Western
democracies have not the
weapons, the organisations, the
armies or the popular will that
could support an unprovoked
attack on Russia and her satel-
lites. Moscow knows how to
prevent a Third World War: she
can do so simply by committing
no aggression and encouraging
none.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“There will always be those who,
in the spirit of the optimist who
believes that whatever happens
will not happen to him, will risk
anything for victory; there will
always be those who prefer the
destruction of the world to
defeat. Did not Lenin believe
that the disappearance of three-
quarters of the world’s popula-
tion would be a cheap price for
the triumph of Communism and
does anyone now believe that in
1945, if Hitler had been able to
place the key of total destruction
in the lock of history, he would
not most willingly have turned
it?
“The danger is always there,
and preparation, technical and
moral, will have to be made to
meet it. But the greater evil
must be reckoned with, and here
the means of defence are moral
rather than technical. These do
not consist in indulging in dreams
of changes of heart, or of our
destroying the weapons instead
of the weapons destroying us.
The best defence is clearness of
thinking on how atomic destruc-
tion may be avoided or lessened
and stoutness of heart if it
cannot be; for without that
stoutness of heart no merely
technical means of defence will
avail, whether we concentrate
on civil defence or on the inven-
tion of yet worse weapons.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”: “It
is not enough to think only in
narrow physical terms. If the
Western will to survive were
sustained only by a mathematical
calculation of advantage in air-
strengths it would not be worth
preserving. We need more than
cold strategy inside us, more than
mere fear of being blown to bits,
more than national self-interest.
Our justification for being ready
to fight rather than submit to
Communist rule, for being ready
for the risks involved in an
atomic strategy of defence, must
be something more. It is to be
found, surely, in the belief that
the Western form of society
respects men as individual human
beings in a way that no other
society has yet achieved. Neither
the Christian faith nor any other
that values the individual expects
salvation without effort and
personal strength of mind. The
early Christians were ready to
face death if necessary for their
faith; we, too, should have that
strength.”


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way io keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
• *
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
dr
KB7
NOW! MORE
Constellations
cm
to Europe
Now, on the Kangaroo Route to London, QANTAS introduces
more giant Super Constellation services !
On these, the world’s finest airliners you enjoy unmatched
standards of comfort and luxury with extra room, extra speed,
extra power —and QANTAS super-service at your command,
always !
The new, exclusively all-first-class “Connoisseur” Service—at
regular first-class fare —will set a new standard of air travel luxury
on the famous Kangaroo Route.
Tourist class seating capacity will be increased.
Choice of services, departure dates and alternative routes (with
wherever you wish) are freely available.
o.
h
m
New Super Constellation Services
from Sydney commence—
FEBRUARY 6th and 16th
(First Class and Tourist Class)
FEBRUARY 26th "CONNOISSEUR"
(First Class only)
and weekly thereafter.
Every first-class |
passenger on Super
Constellations will be pro-
vided with a full-length
sleeperchair at no additional fare.
:§i
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (Inc. in Q’land) in parallel with 8.0.A.C.
34 YEARS OF FLYING EXPERIENCE
Top Rates
Noting a growing class of
wealthy families in Russia
millionaires or thereabouts —the
“U.S. News and World Report”
adds that “writers stand high on
the list”:
“The foremost Soviet propa-
gandist, Ilya Ehrenburg, is said
to be one of the richest Russians
alive. A novelist, Konstantin
Simonov, for a time was able
to draw as he pleased on State
funds without an accounting.
Simonov owns a big house in
Moscow, a villa on the Black
Sea and a yacht, plus several
automobiles.
“Simonov and other officially
‘approved’ writers often get huge
cash awards from the Soviet
Government for their books.
Royalties pour in from the State-
promoted sale of their works.
Joseph Stalin became a
millionaire several times over
from royalties on his dozens of
books —all' of them ‘must’ read-
ing in Russia and elsewhere in
the Communist world.
“A million roubles, at the
official rate of exchange of four
roubles to the dollar, might riot
sound like an impressive amount,
especially when the high cost of
living in Russia is taken into
account. In actual buying-value,
its equivalent in the U.S. would
come to less than $lOO,OOO.
“But Moscow’s stores are find-
ing customers for diamond
bracelets and Zis limousines—the
Russian Packards—priced at
$lO,OOO and up. Mink and sable
are bought-up by wives of CQm-
munist millionaires.”
Migration
In a letter to London “Daily
Telegraph” on the problems of
populating the British Common-
wealth, A. Leigh Hunt points out
that New Zealand’s population
of 2,000,000 represents a density
of about 19 people per square
mile compared with 540 per
square mile in Britain.
Despite this disparity, the
writer adds, and despite the fact
that New Zealand has fully
100,000 vacant jobs in industry,
agriculture, compierce and the
public services, the Government
fixed the 1954 quota of assisted
British migration at the zero-
figure of 4000:
“The whole question of ade-
quately peopling the country
must be placed above the
vagaries of party politics. This
is already so in Australia. Both
parties in Australia enthusiasti-
cally support an intake of settlers
to the limit, recognising that the
battle is one for survival as a
British country.
“If New Zealand is to survive
it must adopt a policy similar to
that of its sister-Dominion. With
efficient leadership towards this
end it would this year have been
welcoming at least 25,000 assisted
British migrants and planning to
double that figure as quickly as
possible.
“Both countries have as
neighbors nations with a total
population of 1200 million, or
probably more, for the latest
figure given for China alone is
over 600 million. Each year the
number of extra mouths in the
world that must be fed is 30
million, and most of these are
in Asia.
“The fate of New Zealand is
not the concern of that country
alone. An appeal is necessary to
the friends in Britain to take a
greater interest i» Common-
wealth development generally,
and in particular in the Com-
monwealth’s vulnerable areas.”
In another letter to the same
paper, C. S. Eadon-Clarke, a
Westralian in Britain on a
lecture-tour designed to enliven
interest in Australia, and to en-
courage “the desire to migrate”
in anyone so inclined, reaches
some “fairly conclusive impres-
sions” without wishing to “sound
pessimistic”:
“Today the British working-
man is in a better financial posi-
tion than he has been for many
years and has a reasonable out-
look for future prosperity. He
is notoriously loth to leave his
workmates, his family-circle and
his countryside for the unknown.
The preservation of the Com-
monwealth by population and
development means nothing to
the average man, who believes
that these are Governmental
problems.
“We must be intensely prac-
tical. I suggest that the British
Government’s point of view is
not favorably inclined to a mass
exodus of her young men, par-
ticularly those skilled in the lead-
ing producing-trades, even more
so at a time when the population
is growing older and the percent-
age of those on the pension is
increasing to those in employ-
ment.
“Nor can a Commonwealth
Government continually en-
courage unlimited migration of
large family-units, the larger
number of whom would not add
to the labor-force.
“I suggest that both .Australia
and New Zealand must en-
courage but expect only a small
flow from Britain, depend on an
increased intake from Europe —
particularly of Dutch and Ger-
man migrants, who acclimatise
themselves readily—and rely on
the Commonwealth’s natural
increase.
“The question of Australia’s
northern shores and the millions
of Asiatics to her near-north
must purely be a matter for the
Defence Department, and it can-
not in any circumstances be
directly connected with migra-
tion, owing to the region’s diffi-
cult climatic conditions, lack of
road-communications, and the
distance from markets.”
A further Australian view—
that of the Rev. L. Llewelyn
Elliot, who travelled to England
with “the secondary intention
of taking home 60 migrants
skilled in the shoemaking trade”
—is also given in the same
paper.
“Australia,” he notes, “offers
to take a whole family group,
without age restrictions on the
older members, and our old-age
pension provisions are now so
generous that it is theoretically
possible for a married couple
(wife aged 60, husband 65) to
dispose of a fortune of £lO,OOO
according to the provisions of
the Act by acquiring a house,
qualifying for a pension of £350
a year with the right to earn
another £350 between them, and
leave the house to their heirs!
“I think the two deterrents to
migration are that the average
British working-man values the
social services as the major basis
of his security, and has to be
convinced that Australia offers
even better social security. Judg-
ing by my own private Gallup
poll, the average British working-
man thinks that the cost of living
in Australia is so high that the
higher wages are cancelled-out,
when in fact the Australian
pound buys as much, or in some
cases more, in staple goods, foods
and services in Australia than
the £1 sterling does in London;
taxation for a married working-
man is nominal.
“There is a diffidence %bout
migration in this country
[Britain]; which rests on the
popular attitude that what Aus-
tralia has to offer is just too
good to be true —but it is true,
and it is good.”
Peaceful Coexistence
U.S. Senator Knowland
bluntly analysing the “co-
existence” peace-panacea, as
reported by “U.S. News and
World Report”:
“It all depends on what inter-
pretation you place upon
‘peaceful coexistence.’ The
words are perfectly good words,
just as ‘free elections’ were good
words, or ‘people’s democracies’
were good words —but they were
neither democracies nor run by
the people. The ‘free elections’
they held in Poland were not free
elections. But because they
weren’t spelled out the Russians
put their own interpretation on.
them.
“There is nothing wrong with
the words ‘peaceful’ and ‘co-
existence,’ provided you have
peace and you are coexisting
beyond the condition of the
Thanksgiving turkey which
coexists up until two days before
Thanksgiving, and then the axe
falls on its neck.
“If that is what ‘peaceful co-
existence’ means, I don’t think
the American people want to buy
that. But I think that’s precisely
what the Communist world has
in mind for us. Now, if you can
get them to stop the constant
agitation and constant pushing
out to destroy the free Govern-
ments, if you can have any
assurance on it, that would be
one thing. But every agreement
they have entered into in the
last 20 years they have violated.
“They had agreements of
• mutual assistance and so on
with Finland and they invaded
Finland.
“They had a mutual-defence
pact with Poland, and when
Poland was being attacked from
the front they went in and
stabbed them from the rear.
“They had an agreement with
Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek,
that his would be the only Gov-
ernment they would deal with,
and the ink wasn’t even dry on it
when they were turning over the
captured arms and equipment of
the Army of Manchuria to the
Chinese Communists of Mao
Tse-tung.
“They have violated every
agreement they have entered
into. They had agreements of
friendship and mutual security
with Latvia, Lithuania and
Estonia and they went in and
destroyed those three Baltic
republics.
“With that clear record, I think
we are a little naive if we think
because they merely say they
are going to peacefully coexist
with you that that means you’re
going to be allowed to peacefully
coexist.”
Various Voices
Retiring French Ambassador
to London, M. Massigli: “Two
worlds are facing each other in
a state of suspicion and doubts.
Frbm one side there is total
silence, with some broadcasts—
very sponsored broadcasts indeed
—which give a line. On the other
side you have a club of very
charming gentlemen discussing
in 'public how we should
approach the gentlemen
opposite.”
General Ridgway : “The more
the Kremlin has disguised its
designs and preached peace, the
more the Western tVorld has
tended to relax its efforts and
drop its guard. Nothing could
better serve the Kremlin’s cause,
or more injure our own.”


STEAM PLANT AND
ACCESSORIES
Inspection is invited of the above prior to being offered for
sale shortly on account of changing over entirely to elec-
tricity.
One 200 h.p. compound H. speedsteam engine revs. 400.
Direct coupling to 60 kilowatt D.C. Generator (and new
spare armature). Driving Pulley, Jockey Pulley, 60 feet
14 inches 3 ply leather belting. Weir pump spare new
steam chest, super heater. One double ■ drum water type
boiler 18 feet working pressure 130 lb. Air Fan with 5 h.p.
A.C. Motor.
2 units Riley Dodds underfeed stoker as new with 3 h.p.
A.C. Motor.
2 ton hopper, conveyor with crusher 5 h.p. A.C. Motor.
All in first-class running order.
The Factory Manager, Mr. C. Salfinger, will be in Sydney
February 7 to February 10, and could give all details 9 to 1 0
a.m. at 310 Pitt Street, Sheffield House, telephone 8M3423.
H. PERRY & Co. # LTD.
Stafford Shoe Manufacturers,
24 Risley Street, RICHMOND, Vic.
(Off Church Street, near Victoria Street.)
RINGLOCK FENCING
1
m
m
pH
The safest fence for every class of stock
jt
&e
/s
r>
<o
0 C
&
fi
RFI44/33/S4
gh
“Cyclone” Ringlock
Fencing of highest tensile quality
galvanised wire is practically everlasting.
The “Ringlock” joint binds hard-steel upright and
horizontal wires immovably together, giving immense
strength.
tws.
Because of its
unique construction from hard-
steel wire, “Cyclone” Ringlock Fencing will
not sag, break or twist in a fire like normal fencing.
As no droppers are required, and fewer posts, there is
less chance of dangerous tangles resulting from burnt-
out wire supports.
ĥt
Upright and hori-
. g zontal strands are clamped
together, giving a stock-proof enclosure.
Alternative types are available for Sheep, Lambs, Pigs
and Cattle. Prices, heights and all details are available
on request.
... and costs you less to erect!
With fewer post holes to dig, and the fence strained up in
one operation, erection time and costs are much lower.
j
See your local “ Cyclone ” distributor or
CYCLONE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Morley Ave., Rosebery. MU 1431
and at Melbourne, Adelaide,
Perth, Brisbane, Townsville.
£3
3 s
MAKERS OF THE FAMOUS "CYCLONE".„GATES
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
A-': JV
£
Established ISOS in Reign of,
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
NJ3.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRANDAUERS
PENS
m:i‘ :;'v'
m
mi? 1
Every point
guaranteed
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
tj
ARTS
Circular Chart* for ail typo*
of Recording Irutrumonb
for wif (Uii of
or Equipment
MCTffl CHARTS • Spociefc?
J/VC»WO*SULUVAN%L^
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE .
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Rocks, Cliffs and
Waterfalls by Charles Barrett. —5984.
To buy Popular Dictionary of Aus-
tralian Slang by Sidney J. Baker.
—5985.
Words of song or recitation called
“Lamerong and His Rangers.”—s9B7.
Married couple, small child, want
to rent furnished flat or cottage, any-
where Sydney, on long term. Can’t
afford luxury rentals.—s9B6.
Copy of poem “The Fox Hunter’s
Dream,” published about 50' or 60
years ag0.—5988.
To buy publications dealing with
repairs and maintenance of diesel
injectors, and repairs and maintenance
of injector-pumps, for all American
types.—s9B9.
To buy copies of Victor J. Daley’s
Dawn and Dusk and Wine and Roses,
A. G. Stephens’s Victor Daley, and
Muir Holburn and Marjorie Pizer’s
Creeve Roe. —5990.
Words of “How M’Dougal Topped
the Score” by Thomas E. Spencer.
(Reply direct to Miss Dorothy Jones,
109 Kuripuni-street, Masterton, N.Z.).
To buy Baker and Smith’s A
Research on the Eucalypts and The
Hardwoods of Australia, Bentham and
Mueller’s Flora Australiensis (7 vols.),
Froggatt’s Australian Insects, Gould’s
Handbook to the Birds of Australia,
Krefft’s The Snakes of Australia, and
Tillyard’s The Insects of Australia.
—5991.
Information Sought
Circumstances of Dr. Evatt’s losing
a preselection ballot when M.L.A. for
Balmain in the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly ?
There was at the time of the
N.S.W. State elections in 1927 a rift
in the N.S.W. Labor party, “Inde-
pendent Labor” candidates standing in
many electorates. Only two of these
“Independents,” Dr. Evatt in Balmain
and T. D. Mutch (Botany), both sitting
members, were elected. Others in the
anti-Lang faction, former sitting
members, who lost their seats in-
cluded Minahan, in Auburn, Cann
(Lakemba) and Alldis (Woollahra).
(The Lang Government was defeated,
and replaced by Bavin’s Nationalist
Government.) Dr. Evatt, who had
been M.L.A. for Balmain since 1925,
won the first ballot for preselection be-
fore the 1927 election, but, another
being ordered (“apparently because
he won too easily,” said The Bulle-
tin of the time), he was beaten by the
“block vote of Red coalminers, it
being arranged that their block vote
should be preponderant.” Evatt then
stood as a Laborite opposed to “a
system of preselection which has
broken down before the electors’ eyes
because of its corruption,” and held
his seat (though only just) from the
endorsed Labor candidate, Doran.
(Evatt was M.L.A. for Balmain till
1930.)
♦ * * *
How are the Sydney Harbor ferry-
services taken over by the N.S.W.
Government administered ?
In June, 1951, certain of the Harbor
ferry-services were bought by the State
Government for £25,000. The assets
bought included wharves, land, build-
ings and 15 ferries, and a Sydney
Harbor Transport Board was set-up
by Act of Parliament to operate the
services. The board consists of three
members, the Commissioner fox Gov-
ernment Transport (chairman), the
president of the Maritime Services
Board and 'the Under-Secretary of the
Treasury. Under the powers conferred
on it, the board has arranged for the
services to be managed on its behalf
by Sydney Harbor Ferries Pty., Ltd.
* * * *
Name of German general who,
about 1908-10, wrote a book (trans-
lated into English) on German
‘superiority” and on the part the
German Army would play in the
“next” war?
The German people, before World
War I (and, of course, again under
Hitler), were “methodically indoc-
trinated with the idea of a German
world-predominance based on might,
and with the theory that war was a
necessary thing in life.” (H. G.
Wells, The Outline of History).
German children in schools were
taught, in season and out, the
“racial, moral, intellectual and
physical superiority of the Germans
to all other peoples, their extra-
ordinary devotion to war and their
dynasty, and their inevitable destiny
under that dynasty to lead the world”
(ibid.). Such views and sentiments
were expressed by numerous German
writers, soldiers and historians around
the period mentioned. The particu-
lar general you refer to was General
Friedrich von Bernhardi (1849-1930)
a disciple of Nietzsche, Von Moltke
and the historian Heinrich von
Treitschke—who in 1909 turned his
whole attention to writing on military
matters. The book mentioned was
his chief work, Germany and the
Next War (1912), the translation of
which into English caused .a sensa-
tion. It is a complete and undis-
guised exposition of Pan-Germanism;
and the gospel of force, thus pro-
claimed outside his own country, was
a big factor in creating the belief
that Germany was bent on war.
* * * *
(1) What were Bradman’s scores in
his last two Test series against
England, 1946-47 and 1948 ? (2) How
many times in those Tests did Bedser
dismiss him?
(1) 1946-47 —First Test, 187; second,
234; third, 79, 49; fourth, 0, 56 n. 0.;
fifth, 12, 63. Total 680, av. 97.1.
1948—First Test, 138, 0; second, 38,
89; third, 7, 30 n. 0.; fourth, 33, 173
n. 0.; fifth, 0. Total 508. av. 72.57.
(2) 1946-47, twice (for the “duck” in
the fourth Test, and for the 63 in the
fifth Test); 1948, four times (Brad-
man’s first four innings).
Brief Answers
W.C.T.: (1) and (2) No data.
Before Federation the Union Jack
was the flag officially flown. (3) The
red Australian flag may be flown
by every Australian citizen; the
blue Australian flag should be
flown by Governments and the public
service only. (4) Every British citizen
may fly the Union Jack on land. (5)
The White Ensign is the flag of the
British Navy; the Blue Ensign the flag
of the public service; and the Red
Ensign the flag flown by all other
ships belonging to her Majesty’s sub-
jects. (An ensign is a particular form
of our national flag.)
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
P.R.: “De Bongle Woogles”
wobbled woefully away... The
poultry made amiable poetry
R.V.S.: The insect has been better
cooked before... .G.1.W.: Why
“weird”?... .D.V.K.: Good phrase
about the money being “permanent
as his thoughts”; but you need more
wit and polish M.R.: The “dizzy
dancing daffodils under flowering-
plum” indicate, when compared with
Wordsworth, the uncontrollability of
your Muse... .A.M.: Thought twice
about “Recognition,” but the last
three lines need rewriting—it’s too
much to be stalked by a fuchsia....
D.E.: “Starsong” very nearly made
it; a bit vague... .M.D.G.: Language
archaic, and if you’re really trying to
rhyme “boughs” with “flowers” and
“cloud” with “shower’d,” don’t—
K.A.McG.: Hardly a ripple in
“Morning Surf” A.C.C.R.:
On Manly beach within your reach
Lolls many a ripe and luscious peach.
But don’t people go there to swim ?
C.F.: Learn to condense....
C.W.C.: Glad you enjoyed “The
Westing Emu.” “Tryst” neat enough
but slight....D.K.: “To make them
compact I have used only accidental
rhyme—if I had decided on a< rhyme-
scheme beforehand I would- have to
include unnecessary material.” But
you’re dodging the whole art of
poetry, which is to make them com-
pact, to use a rhyme-scheme and not
to include unnecessary material....
J.S.: A pleasant “Echo,” l?ut so very
small A. 8.: About the only thing
you could do with “Invitation to a
Literary Dinner” would be to eat it,


I f
8.8
■|*
l
%
m
r
jj! i! !Sj !r
Hj II | It |! 1
3
OanrarTH-^
2
%
wwmzzm/jßo22mm.
To serve
your country
4NP VOVRSUF
Help NOW to strengthen Australia’s Northern Gateway by helping to build
up Queensland’s power resources ! The Queensland State Electricity Loan has
a lustrous record It’s a gilt-edged security, completely safe with repayment
in full at maturity guaranteed by the Queensland-State Government There is no
safer, more worthwhile investment to protect and profit YOU and AUSTRALIA.
INVEST IN THE
QUEENSLAND STATE
]
PER' CENT (.NTSftEST
7, 10, OR 15 YEARS TERM
NOW OPEN;
Repayment in full at maturity is guaranteed by the Queensland Government
• Interest rate is MORE than DOUBLE Bank Interest. Payable half- yearly
• You con invest £5O or any multiple of £5O for 7, 10, or I 5 years ternr?
Subscriptions free of exchange.
APPLY through any branch of the Commonwealth Bank, any Stockbroker, or
direct to the Queensland State Electricity Commission in Brisbane .
The Loon is underwritten by /. B. W ere & Son.
LOAN CLOSES 7th FEB., 1955


LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
|M;!
m
W&
m
■i ■ I
im
• ■■■
m
9. mm
m
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY IN SEMDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
STATION EDUCATION
TOURING a recent Centralian
Pastoralists’ Associat io n
“Meeting of the Air” (conducted
over the two-way radio-system
from the base at Alice Springs)
J. H. Driver, owner of Elkedra
Station, put forward a suggestion
which has a bearing on one of
the several problems discussed
in the recent “Man on the Land”
article “The North.”
A pretty big suggestion—the
getting of suitable men.
Driver’s idea is that young
fellows should be systematically
trained, on the spot, by co-
operation between the various
stations. And this, besides mak-
ing the best use of the material
available, might well have the
effect of attracting more
youngsters of the right type.
A station-man should have
thorough knowledge and experi-
ence of every aspect of station
life. The better his education,
the better off he will be.
Remember, in these parts, a
station-homestead isn’t just a
residence: it’s a store, post-office,
radio - station, administrative
centre for the local aborigines;
and, of course, it’s there for the
large-scale business of raising
cattle.
Apart from the stock-work,
it’s of great value for a station-
man to have at least some know-
ledge of bookkeeping, electrical
work, carpentry, building
engineering and general
mechanics. He should be able
to drive a truck, and if he knows
a bit about geology, botany and
entomology, so much the better.
Under Driver’s plan, the
student cattleman would first
spend some months at a station-
homestead to get the general
feel of things. Another station
might have a head-stockman of
particularly high reputation—
let the learner spend a'season in
the stock-camp there. Some
months could then be spent
under the tuition of a good book-
keeper. Another station might
have an expert mechanic, under
whom the student could learn
about the maintenance of
vehicles, electric-plant, bores,
windmills and other machinery.
The final result would be a highly
trained and competent young
Territorian.
When X was visiting Murray
Downs, Stan Hicks, an employee
of that station, pointed out what
a wonderful difference the estab-
lishment of a big secondary
industry—say, a meat-cannery —
at Alice Springs would make to
the life and population of the
Centre. It would, attract all
sorts of subsidiary industries and
services and, directly and
indirectly, young men and young
women. We need them.
Morayda.
Nitrogen for Wheat
“Nitro”: In most cold
climates wheat-crops benefit
from the application of nitrogen-
fertiliser, in addition to phos-
phates. In general, in Australia
wheat - crops don’t respond
sufficiently to make the applica-
tion economical; frequently, in
fact, it causes loss in yield.
This is especially the case
under hot, dry ripening-con-
ditions, and is explained by the
fact that an excess of nitrogen
in the early stage of growth
of the wheat-plant causes a rela-
tively rank growth. Moisture-
requirement is raised in the later
grain-developing stage, the plant
cannot meet this requirement,
and grain-production suffers.
Many Australian wheat-
growers who have taken pains
to build-up soil-fertility (espe-
cially the nitrogen-content of
the soil) with sub.-clover pas-
tures are now having a similar
experience. Excessive nitrogen
produces a somewhat rank
growth in the crop immediately
following a few years of such
a leguminous pasture.
Men with lifetime experience
of wheatgrowing' have been
mystified by crops of excellent
appearance “haying-off” rapidly
in the later stages and produc-
ing only pinched grain.
In the new wheat-farming
practice now spreading through
Australia the excess nitrogen
in the soil immediately after
long-term legume-pasture is
best and most usefully allowed
to expend itself in a crop of oats
for grazing or hay, before
coming back to a Vheat.
On some soils, a long fallow
alone can store enough nitrogen
in the soil to produce rank
growth. Grazing such a crop in
the young stages, even though
some loss of yield is also suf-
fered, is the accepted remedy.
But the question of nitrogen
for wheat in Australia cannot
be dismissed by a generalisation
in regard to the dangers of
excess.
It has been shown that, when
wheat-land*is cropped somewhat
intensively, sufficient increase
in yield has been obtained to
justify the application of nitro-
gen-fertiliser (in addition to
phosphates) to wheat so\yn on
stubble-land.
There are, however, also
times, especially in a cold, wet
winter in the southern, half of
Australia’s wheat-belt, when the
crops are obviously suffering
from nitrogen-starvation. This
deficiency is not only reflected
in lessened yield, but also in
lowered protein-content of the
grain.
Nothing is done to help such
wheat - crops with nitrogen-
fertiliser.
Moreover, no research or
demonstrational work is being
done in Australia, so far as
writer knows, to determine the
exact value of topdressing such
crops with soluble nitrogen-
fertiliser.
Australian agronomists have
generally considered such top-
dressing of wheat-crops to be
impracticable or too difficult,
but this treatment is giving
excellent results in the U.S., even
when it has to be done from the
air. ■
Late application of such ferti-
liser at the heading, or grain-
forming, stages has also been
shown, both in the U.K. and in
U.S.A., to be capable of con-
siderably raising the gluten-
content of the grain.
Where is our vaunted wheat-
research in Australia if such an
apparently important aspect as
this is being neglected?
"Break-feeding 11 for
Beef
• “Jubilee”: Here in New
Zealand “break-feeding” of beef-
cattle with electric-fences has
given good results so far. Fol-
lowing recommendations are for,
N.Z. conditions.
Choose a dry paddock to
obviate pugging, and topdress
with 2cwt, super., lcwt. potash
and sulphate - of-
ammonia per acre, about mid-
April. Close till the grass is 9in.
high, about first day of July.
Then commence feeding-off.
Do not eat the break down
too short before shifting to the
next one. Twelve acres, under
average climatic conditions, will
run 40 head for 2\ months, and
have them fat and bring a top
price when the beef-market is at
its best in September.
It is being proved that this
system of break-feeding, so long
popular with dairy-cattle, is
applicable to beef-cattle, and
provides extra feed when the
ewes and lambs should not be
crowded. ‘
Mouldboard for
Clover-ley
“Pawnee”: When you plough
your pasture for wheat under
clover-ley this autumn, use the
mouldboard-plough. Experts at
Rutherglen (Vic.) Research
Station say the mouldboard is
surest for turning-under green
pasture to a uniform depth. Fit
the plough with long boards.
The disk is faster, but is only
satisfactory when there is rela-
tively little pasture to handle
before seeding. Where soil is in
specially good condition, a rigid-
tyned scarifier can be quite
effective.
Under Rutherglen conditions
—about 24in. of rain a year—
burning stubble makes it easier
to prepare a good seed-bed for
the second crop after pasture.
Loss of organic-matter isn’t of
much consequence it soon
recovers under clover-pasture.
In less favored areas stubble
protects the soil against wind-
and water-erosion. Speed and
cost of cultivation —important
considerations—favor the use of
a disk or scarifier after a good
burn on clean land.
Kicking Sheep
“Boss o’ Board”: When sheep
kick whilst being shorn there’s
/usually a reason. Perhaps the
machine is not cutting right, or
the tools are blunt. Imagine
having a haircut when the
clippers are pulling.
Sometimes, too, the comb is
hot against the sheep’s skin.
Again, sheep may kick when
seated uncomfortably on the
i shearing-board. I have seen
them sit quietly on softwood
boards, yet kick when sitting on
hardwood.
Another reason for kicking
may be that the sheep have been
brought in. too full from the
paddocks, and are fresh and
packed with cussedness. A good
shearer, who holds the sheep
correctly, and for a minimum of
time, finds little difficulty in
shearing these.
It has been prevalent lately
for shearers to hit fractious
sheep with the handpiece. Teeth
are knocked out; occasionally a
sheep is killed. There is a clause
in the award which refers to
treatment of sheep.
Very rightly, of course, the
owner is incensed at such treat-
ment of his sheep. It means to
him much the same as it would
to me if someone knocked out
the teeth of my dog.
If the owner makes certain
his machinery is in good order
it will be half the battle, as
shearers rarely hit a sheep unless
it does kick.
Soil-mining
“Magnoon”: In their recent
“Man on the Land” discussion
of soil-conservation problems
both Mr. Schiunke and the
N.S.W. Minister for Conserva-
tion, Mr. Enticknap, failed to
mention one important point:
the fact that the farmer who
ruins land can “get away with it.”
This is how the average soil-
miner works —in N.S.W., here
in Queensland, in the United
States, all over the place: He
buys a good farm, crops it to the
limit for several years until the
results begin to show to the
experienced eye, then sells it for
as much as or more than he
gave for it.
Why he 6an do this I don’t
quite know ; apparently there are
plenty of potential buyers who
can’t recognise early signs of
erosion, and are dazzled by
evidence of large returns over the
past few‘years. The seller can
now afford the deposit on a
larger farm, and goes on his
destructive way.
The buyer, having given too
much for the land in the first
place, can’t afford any serious
erosion-control work, even if he
knows anything about it. So he
gets what he can out of the place,
and then sells it; again, often
as not, at a profit. I have known
a farm to change hands four or
five times in 10 years, the value
going down and the price going
up all the time, -v
Cattle-yards
“Sam”: Cattle-yards should
be placed centrally in relation to
the layout of paddocks, and on
firm ground. A gentle slope is
ideal —you don’t want boggy
yards in wet weather.
If gates are placed to allow all
movements in an anti-clockwise
direction, the men will be on the
left-hand or branded side.
Cattle quickly respond if worked
from one side all the time. Man-
holes of lOin. or llin. wide
between rounded posts are
essential for safety, and, in any
case, are timesavers.
Place bottom-rails well above
the ground—2oin. clearance will
obviate any chance of injury by
cattle getting a leg over the rail.
Round-off all edges of' sawn-
timber. If no shade - trees
are growing, plant some
immediately.
Programmes and
Surpluses
“H. Wing”: “C.M.” on food-
production (B. 12/1 /’55) pro-
vokes a few thoughts.
Here in W.A. there’s any
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
The heavy rains on the coast of N.S.W. were indicated
on the Uranian cycle, and would appear to be associated
with that cycle.
Some time ago the influence of this cycle appeared to
be waning, but subject to the appropriate sunspot-support
when a revival takes place. This may give further good
rains early this month, and, should this grouping eventuate,
then the poor rainfall that is indicated for the year on
Other cycles may be considerably modified.
Otherwise, apart from light showers, the period should
be mainly fine.
LENNOX WALKER.


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
HYCEIA DISSOLVENATO
Gives you the advantages of sewerage
flatter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
I S 3
dfg
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU dan instal it!
Xfae treated sterile sewerage i*
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established SSS years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
-DISTRIBUTORS: ——
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wick-
ham St., The Valley, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 460 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Build-
, * n £. King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA : Hygeia Dissolvenator
(las.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
_k„ es an< t Services.
N^L,t ZEA ~ANDr Hygeia Dissol-
rZtl 1 C t o, Wellesley
Lorne str eet. Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
—INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £16,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6*B O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BW 813 ! (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN'S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach - j
m en t illus-
trated is the j
world-
famous
ROTARY
SCYTHE
FARMERS' |
BOY” '
m
■*r*
m
v
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazeos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC. : Grazeos Co-operative Ltd.,, 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land : Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St.. Launceston. S. Aust.:
A. M. Johnson & Sons Ltd., 200-204
Grenfell St., Adelaide. W 1495 & 1824.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
mm
l 'W
Mins
; i
■■ ' . ■■ ■
■f,l
Illustrated above and left: Ihe International AR-110, 12 cwt. Utility with 115 in. wheelbase
jr r «g
AR-112, 127" w.b. with drop side body
There’s an INTERNATIONAL for every job!
AR-110 Utility, 12-cwt. cap., 115-in. w.b. AR-110 Chassis
and Cab, 18-cwt. cap., 115-in. w.b. AR-110 Chassis and
Cab, 19-cwt, cap., 127-in. w.b. AR-112 Utility 15-cwt.
cap., 115-in. w.b. AR-112 Chassis and Cab, 21-cwt, cap.,
115-in. w.b. AR-112 Chassis and Cab, 23-cwt. cap., 127-in.
w.b.
CHASSIS AND CAB CAPACITIES INCLUDE BODY WEIGHT
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital
Cities.
Works: Dandenong and Geelong,
Victoria.
tfemfffe M(fp/scf/c#/ for
TOWN or COUNTRY ..
WORK PLEASURE ..
Now . . . International give you modern all round
high-styling and roomy comfort for the whole family
in a vehicle that’s . . .
Built for Rugged Work
... yet with Passenger-Car Comfort.
Your new InternationaJ has a big loek-up cabin with
6-2/3 square feet of parcel shelf, and the roomiest cab
on tne road (over 60 inches of hip-room). There’s new
clear wide-range vision, two windscreen wipers, and
two smart suft-visors. You’ll enjoy the new ease of
handling usually found only in modern cars.
Add to this the greater efficiency, down-to-earth
economy and rugged durability of every International
truck. Consider these six important features:
★ Engine: Quiet powerful
100 max. H.P.
★ Rugged heavy duty chassis.
Sturdy semi-elliptical
springs.
★ High front axle clearance,
if Big usable load space.
if Large variety of body
styles.
Now — no need for a truck and a car drive your
‘dual-duty International for pleasure ... use it for
work. See your dealer about your International today.
1
I
... THE WORLD’S BEST TRUCK INVESTMENT -
TRUCKS
FMTS4B*36»
amount of vacant light land,
easily cleared and assured of
good rainfall. Scientists have
worked-out the technique of
adding minerals to produce fine
crops and pastures. The manu-
facturers are ready with manures
and machinery.
Those of us who have experi-
ence and a little capital could
soon grow more food if we were
sure it would be needed. But
we’ve heard it all before.
In 1930 Sir James Mitchell,
then Premier of Western Aus-
tralia, was telling us that Aus-
tralia, busy developing her
secondary industries, would never
be able to feed her growing
population. “Go on the land,
young man! ”he advised us. We
did, and turned a lot of forest
into dairyfarms. Most of us
went broke.
“C.M.” mentions “Govern-
ment programmes affecting
prices....” the inference being,
I take it, that guaranteed prices
would make pioneering a fool-
proof proposition.
Well, we had the Paterson
plan in the ’thirties, but, like all
such schemes, it let us down
when help was needed most.
Governments, after all, can only
divide the national income.
Every day the papers tell of
huge stored surpluses of food
that nobody knows what to do
with. It sounds poor business
to add to the pile.
Crosscuts
“It is important to remember
that cattle which are losing
weight are living on beef-steaks
—one of the most expensive
fodders in beef-cattle hus-
bandry.”—(Dr. M- C. Franklin,
of the McMaster Laboratory,
N.SW.)
* # *
“Much has been said about
the possibility of weaning calves
earlier than is usually done.
Overseas experiments, and some
local experience, indicate that it
is possible to wean them as early
as eight weeks of age, provided
they are weaned on to choice
pastures which are at the right
stage of grazing.” (K. M.
Sillcock in Vic. Agricultural
Department “Journal.”)
“Oats, in both mash- and
grain-feeds, are satisfactory as a
poultry-feed, even when fed as a
high proportion of the ration as
a substitute' for wheat.” —
(V. H. M. Brann, N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture.)
* *
“Land-settlement should be
regarded as a scientific problem,
dependent for its success on
sound rational planning devoid
of the impediment of sectional
advocacy and political bargain-
ing.”—(Bank of N.S.W.)
* * *
Man-power, particularly a
lack of the experienced sort at
harvesting, was a factor in the
late crushing of sugarcane in
Queensland. Even with a lot of
overtime, 22 of the State’s 31
mills hadn’t finished before
Christmas. One —Inkerman, at
Home expected to crush
into February.
It’s a bumper crop. But, as
E. T. S. Pearce (general-
secretary of the Australian Sugar
Producers’ Association) points
out, overtime had contributed to
costs, and low sugar-content
would cut into returns.
For a long time Queensland
Cane Growers’ Council has been
unhappy about migrant workers
sent to the canefields ; some of
them, apparently, weren’t very
“rural.” Now, following pow-
wows with all the Government
departments and organisations
concerned, growers’ representa-
tives are to go to Italy and have
a hand in the selection of a
possible 1500 migrants for the
1955 harvest.
* * *
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture reports good progress by
gall-fly (checking crofton-weed)
in northern parts of the State.
* * *
Animal-nutrition workers at
Purdue University (Indiana,
U.S.) have been feeding anti-
biotics and B-gfoup vitamins to
pigs in drinking-water (instead
of in feed). Too early to make
firm recommendations, but
results so far are promising.
* * *
S.A. Merino men touring
N.S.W. in April and May will
have a look at studs around
Deniliquin, then go on to Hay,
Narrandera, Parkes, Trangie,
Warren and back home via
Orange, Canberra, Albury.
. * * *
Tree-farming is quite an
industry jja the U.S. Reported
that manufacturers of pulp- and
paper-products plan to plant
some 116 million seedlings in
the next 10 years.
* * a
“M.A.M.”: lust back from
Victoria, with a strong impres-.
sion that Victorians don’t like
fruit-fly. At the Border, coming
and going, we ran a gauntlet of
notices: “There is no fruit-fly
in Victoria. Please do not bring
it in with you. There is fruit-
fly in N.S.W. and Queensland —
(repeat) there is no fruit-fly in
Victoria.” When we arrived in
Albury my son remarked, “Well,
here we are, back among the
fruit-fly.”
Hints
“Det”: If rails are attached to
posts of the cattle-yards by wire,
see that all ties are on the outside
of the fence, to avoid damage.
Ties on dividing-fences should be
well flattened on to the posts.
“T.P.”: Watch for fraying of
cable and cable-operated brakes.
Take out cable-assemblies every
now and then, clean inner cable
and housing and lubricate
thoroughly.
“Bunyip”: If using bore-water
for poultry or stock, have it
analysed. May have a high salt-
content. Where analysis isn’t
possible, eliminate salt from the
chooks’ mash. Evaporation con-
centrates the salt, so empty or
flush drinking-troughs each day.
Basis of sgal. of water per 100
birds is a safe one to work on.
“Sundowner”: Pumpkins are
sensitive to D.D.T., so insects
should be controlled with derris-
dust, or lib. calcium-arsenate,
mixed with 151 b. hydrated-lime.
Sulphur-dusts or limestone-
sprays will deal adequately with
red-spider and powdery mildew.
First application should be
third-leaf stage; then weekly.
“R.A.”: Leaf-eating ladybird,
easily identifiable by its black
spots on a yellow background,
attacks potato- and tomato-
plants, pumpkins, melons and
kindred vines. A gross feeder,
it quickly leaves skeletons of
foliage. On potatoes and
tomatoes, use a 2 per cent.
Q.D.T.-dust, or l|oz. of disper-
sible D.D.T.-powder to sgal.
water.. But vines are susceptible
to damage from D.D.T., so make
light applications of'.ol per cent.
D.D.T.-spray, or loz, of dis-
persible powder to 12igal. water.
Or use 0.5 per cent. D.D.T.-dust.


“ATLAS” C0 2 KILLS
BLAZE IN SECONDS
DRAMATIC FLAMING
PETROL TEST!
The pictures at right were taken
recently in the A.F.S. testing
chambers. A 44 gallon drum was
cut down, filled with petrol, a
lighted match thrown in and the
flames in an instant ,were as you
see them.
The three nozzles from their pre-
arranged positions emitted CO2
gas at between 900 and 10001 b.
pressure directly at the seat of
the blaze. The right hand illus-
tration shows the result.
i&zm.
GOODYEAR FACTORY INSTALLS
"ATLAS" C0 2
Like many factories', Goodyear relies
on smooth assembly line progress for
peak production. The continuous belt
which constructs the well-known Good-
year Tyre enables the tyre to be
fabricated layer by layer. At points
along the line a highly inflammable
adhesive solution is ' applied and only
“ATLAS” CO2 can guard the danger
spots. The top left illustfation shows
.3 open jets distributing the adhesive
solution. The lower picture shows the
two cone shaped (jO2 outlets aimed
directly at the combustion area.
1
' ?
", K i
n
"ATLAS" CO 2 GIVES ROUND - THE - CLOCK
PROTECTION FOR INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS,
ELECTRIC GENERATORS, SWITCHBOARDS
A long list could be written here of the hazards that could be covered by CO2
protection. However, you can say that where fire can be expected in a limited
location —such as wheat dust in a silo, chemicals in the mixing stage and where
water or foam would do damage, there’s your task for ATLAS C0 2
An automatic system also incorporates manual operation or a purely manual unit
like the Goodyear installation pictured at left can be provided in special cases.
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLERS PTY. LTD
HEAD OFFICE: Alexandria Works, 618 Botany Road, Alexandria, N.S.W. Telephone: MU2476
BRANCH OFFICES AND WORKS
VICTORIA: Carlton Works, 179 Berkeley Street, Carlton. D. W. Roberts, Director.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Edwardstown Works, 663 South Road, Edwardstown. ,N. R. Dowling, Director.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 18 Irwin Street, Perth. D. I. Murray, Manager.
QUEENSLAND: Hendra Works, 456 Nudgee Road, Hendra. J. E. Robinson, Manager.
NEW ZEALAND: Penrose Works, 17 Beasley Avenue, Penrose. G. K. Bunce, Manager.
1 PRO'i't
for a time, and from which he made
such an astonishing recovery, did not
make a break in our relations, for I
visited him frequently at Callan Park.
I am never any good at times or
dates, unless some special event fixes
them in. memory. Between the times
when Archie left the asylum and when
I went to England (in 1911) we met
mainly on holiday occasions, going
about in his car or out for the day in
his fishing-launch on Port Hacking.
When I returned from England we got
in touch again, and as I chose about
that time to have a general physical
breakdown, it was Archie who carried
me off to hospital in his car.
I mention that hospital because it
was there that I acquired a special debt
of gratitude to Archie. A. G. Stephens
had left “The Bulletin” and was doing
his literary page for the Sydney “Sun,”
and while I was vegetating in bed
waiting to be operated on next day
the “Sun” was handed in to me. In
that issue A.G.S. had devoted most of
his page to an attack on me and my
works, and I cannot say I read it with
any elation of spirits. That sort of
thing is part of one’s job, of course,
but a critical trouncing is not to be
preferred when one is in the last state
of physical decrepitude. I had just
finished reading A.G.S.’s splurge when
Archie bustled in, full of gusto, to
announce that he had bought my pen-
drawing, “The Argument,” which was
on exhibition in Bligji-street, for
£lOO. It was the last big drawing I
had done before falling into bed, and
it brought me here a charming instance
of the law of compensations, and
reassured my conviction that no work
is viciously attacked unless it has
genuine value.
When I came out of hospital I went
to the mountains to convalesce, and
finally bought a house at Springwood,
where Archie was a constant visitor to
the end of his life. He used to arrive
for weekends in his car with a basket
of assorted foods, take charge of our
kitchen and spend hours cooking. He
loved producing special dishes for
others, of which he ate very little him-
self. At his house at Rose Bay he
always had a most elaborate tray of
delicacies left at his bedside at nigbit,
but it was carried away untouched in
the morning. When I commented on
this curious instance of abstinence on
a concept of gastronomy, he said
“Well, well, it’s nice to think it’s there.
If I don’t use the next-door man’s
j* !
garden I can get as much as he does
out of looking at its trees and
flowers...”
His favorite quotation was “If I
must die, let me die drinking at an
inn.”
It epitomised his idea of getting
everything out of life to the last, and
that life was better used in living than
saved penuriously for no . other pur-
pose than to keep a carcass out of the
coffin. If he did not put that concept
into any recorded form of work he
encouraged it eternally in the work of'
others. By that means he achieved in
himself that concretion of personality
which is the aim and end of all
creation in life and art.
I jemember 4 thing he once said to
me which defined that guiding prin-
ciple in himself. It was during one of
those walks which we often took
through the Gardens to the Domain,
for he loved passing an hour in the
National Gallery. Coming out of that
once he waved his stick at the prospect
of Sydney and said “Look at this place.
It’s full of rich men, and any one of
them could write his name across it
ffor ever by bequeathing it a public
monument or institution, or endowing
scholarships or the arts. But they
carry money-grubbing into the grave
with them and rot there forgotten, as
they damned well deserve to be.”
We know that Archie endowed Aus-
tralian art with the Archibald Bequest
and bestowed on Sydney the splendid
Archibald Memorial fountain, the only
truly fine monument the city possesses,
and has thereby written his name
across it for as long as it may endure.
But he wrote his personality deeper
on this country’s culture when he
sought for and published the best
poetry and prose and draughtsmanship
it could produce, and harbored in it
the spirit to envision life in its own
terms and not on any culture borrowed
from other countries.
Archie was something this country
had to have in its initial struggle for
culture, or remain damned to the
inertia of producing a worthless mob
of human beings, to be taken over by
the first piratical nation that chose'to
land an army here. He doesn’t need
any testimony of his value to this
country from me, though I am happy
to have had the chance to record it in
the name of a personal affection for
him.
I would like here to pay one final
tribute to “The Bulletin” for what it
has done to foster and sustain a
national expression in our literature.
Today that expression covers three
generations of Australian writers. I
arrived on the paper at the tail-end of
the first generation and have lived
through the two that followed, and
can therefore claim to have an authori-
tative outlook on the prose and poetry
published in “The Bulletin” for the
last 50-odd years. Today that quality
is higher than it has ever been. It can
challenge competition with the best
writing produced in any country where
the English language is written. I
prefer to let that assertion stand in
precise terms. Time will evidence its
validity.
But if anyone prefers to question my
claim that “The Bulletin” is still the
core of a literary culture in this
country, one very simple query will
confirm it.
Take “The Bulletin” out of the con-
temporary expression in literature as
defined in the various other journals
published in this country and what
have you got left? The answer is—
Nothing. -
RABBITERS
Mausden sits chewing a blade of grass.
The hour is walled by trees.
Hans sucks his pipe; a mass
Of smoke moves between his knees.
Mausden is often mistaken for a fool.
He spits, the fire consumes it with a hiss.
His mind’s a cool
And careful creek. He has the gaze of fish.
Hans inhabits another land;
Look deeply and you’ll see within the eyes
A Norway-evening endless as a stretch of
sand
And shadow-gulls that fall and rise.
Near, with legs tied, three dead rabbits
Hang upon a tree—
Three broken necks, three luckless wits
Now locked to this small harmony.
VICTORIA.
R. A. SIMPSON.
CHRISTOPHER FRY
Nobody whose trade is in words
could meet so luminous a celebrity as
Christopher Fry and fail to write some-
thing about him; and though when I
talked with him in London lately I did
not go along to the house by Regent’s
Canal as a journalist for an “inter-
view,” but privately, because I have an
enormous admiration for his work, the
compulsion of the typewriter is still
irresistible.
There is, in any case, an appropriate
occasion for writing about him at the
moment since the British Council (and
nostalgic words they are, too...wait-
ing to see Miss Hubbard, Mr. Thomas
or Mr. Ensor at Davies-street, in that
room full of tobacco-smoke and black
men, strange learned visitors to Britain,
one of whom read “The Times” aloud
to himself in a deep, rich, booming,
chocolate undertone) —since the British


Council, as I say, has just added
Derek Stanford’s “Christopher Fry” to
the informative series of booklets about
British writers which it publishes
through Longmans.
And very glad I am, too, to se
Christopher Fry in the series; indeec
to see anything in print about him, for
unless the scores of appreciative essay
one would expect to find in place
where writers are discussed have some
how escaped my notice, he does seem
to have been studiously ignored by
the English literary world; while a
the same time, of course, finding hi
appreciation in the theatre.
I think the only piece of writing '
have seen about him outside Australia
though of course much more musi
have been done, was a parody by
Stephen Spender. I dislike the ar
of the parodist; and I really do
not think very much will be heard in
the future of Mr. Spender’s play abou
“The Trial of a Judge,” nor indeed oi
any of his writings, except by the sur
vival of a few lyrics in anthologies. Bu
Christopher Fly’s poetic comedies (I
refuse to use for these sparkling piece
so prosaic a term as the fashionable
and apologetic “verse-play”) wil
surely take a permanent place in Eng
lish literature both as poetry and as
high comedy in the long tradition that
stretches from “As You Like It,’
through Wycherley, Congreve and
Sheridan, to Wilde and Shaw. I always
think of Fry myself—for what reason
I don’t quite know, except that there
is a lightness, and one must take
lesser figure than Shakspeare for com-
parison—with Beaumont and Fletcher.
Mere jealousy is not, I suspect, the
only reason for the cold-shouldering of
Christopher Fry by the clique of high-
brows and Leftists who rule the
English literary scene... though there
is reason enough for jealousy when,
after everybody else in the game has
had a shot at a play or two, never
(except T. S. Eliot; who is a different
matter) getting any further than the
murky comers of the Little Theatres,
suddenly, out of the blue of pure poetic
vision, a writer comes along and per-
forms the miracle which all poets have
been dreaming of since Beaumont and
Fletcher; fills the great London
theatres with poetry triumphant on
the stage. I think most of the literary
critics simply don’t know what to make
of him. I don’t quite know myself—
except that he seems to me to have
made a more natural as well as a more
delightful use of poetry in his plays
than anybody since the Elizabethans—
but Derek Stanford sums-up pretty
well both what he has so far done and
why he confuses analysis:—
In a universe often viewed as
mechanistic, he has posited the
principle of mystery ; in an age of
necessitarian ethics, lie has stood
unequivocally for ideas of free-
will. In theatre technique he has
gaily ignored the sacrosanct con-
ventions of naturalistic drama;
and in terms of speech he has
brought back poetry on to the stage
with undoctored abandon.
As well as discussing Fry’s ideas Mr.
Stanford gives a short account of h
life: —
Christopher Fry was born at
Bristol, in the West Country, in
1907. His parents’ home was a
small, single-fronted, unimposing
one; and home-life, though com-
fortable, was far from being
luxurious. His father had begun
his career as an architect, and
found his practice anything but
thriving. Just when his difficult
uphill struggle appeared to be
taking a better turn, he decided to
abandon his profession and give
himself up to work for the poor.
But there Mr. Stanford has left ou
the fact which naturally most interested
me when Fry was telling me some
thing about his life in that tall, com
fortable room beside the canal
room hung with good pictures, among
which I thought I recognised a Boudin
and fortified with a coal-fire agains
the English summer, though the sun
happened for once to be glittering blue
and silver through the elms on to the
water outside): that he nearly got him
self born in Australia. And what an
earthquake there would have been in
the Australian theatre if he had been
—and if our neglect of the stage hadn’
driven him out of the country.
Before he was born, he told me, his
parents were living in Melbourne. Bu
they lost their money in a depression
and went back to England: so we
missed the playwright of the age. 0
hope I have got this story right, and
that it wasn’t his grandparents who
were here; I think it was his parents.)
An uncle stayed behind in this country
and used to do illustrations for Mel-
bourne “Punch”—one of which Fry
had out to show me: a wash-drawing
of horses, rather like a Mahony.
I think I will leave the personal
description of the playwright to Mr.
Stanford. What I chiefly recall my-
self is his quiet cordiality, his readiness
to be mildly astonished at almost any-
thing, and a curious light springiness
in his walk, as if he were trying to
make himself taller. Mr. Stanford
says:—
As a man Fry is modest and
home-loving. He prefers the
country to the town, spends much
of his time in a farmhouse in
Wales, and thinks that authors
should imitate painters and try
composing in the open air. In
appearance he is short but well
built; dark and good-looking in
a way that almost suggests
Spanish blood. In speech he is a
little slow- and low-spoken ; and
his glance and voice are measured
and reflective.
I can certainly confirm the bit about
“modest and home-loving,” though
they are not quite the words I would
choose myself. Fry told me he was
down in London—from Wales, where
he had been writing all the summer—
to see his son off to school somewhere;
and that he didn’t like London and
thought of selling the house, only it
was so convenient to have somewhere
to stay when he had to come down to
rehearsals. He listened with some
amazement to a summary of my travels
through the poppies and motor-bike
of Italy and the mountains of Switze
land and merely laughed a mild
deprecating laugh when I asked him il
he ever thought of coming out to Au
tralia with one of his plays: “But I’m
such a bad traveller, you know,
don’t even go to France —across th
Channel...”
Another thing he seemed to dreac
almost as much as London and trave
—and I must say that here he had m
whole-hearted sympathy—was makin
public speeches. He had been tellin
me how he got diverted from play
writing into film-work (for “Th
Beggar’s Opera”), and from that th
conversation moved to all the othe
interruptions to play-writing. He tolc
me, with a humorous despair, “I hav
to give a talk to [I forget what society'
on...‘Why Poetry?’ ‘Why Poetry’
For an hour. What on earth is one t
say to them?”
The theme implied, of course, wa
“Why poetry in plays?” I gave him
my stock answer to that plaintiv
query: “It’s the natural speech of th
aroused emotions.”
“Yes,” said Fry, “but how can on
go on saying that for an hour?”
Since he really seemed to b
desperate, I suggested he might expand
by quoting the couple of lines whic]
Robert D. Fitz Gerald told me he once
picked up. in ordinary conversation
from a fellow-surveyor while driving
past Bondi beach; something like:—
The loveliest thing in the world
is a wave breaking;
A wave or a fire, I could sit and
watch them for hours...
and that he might tell his audience, as
I have sometimes done, that everybody
talks poetry, in regular five-foot lines
when recalling the scenes and events oJ
his childhood. The idea seemed new
to Fiy, though perhaps his own state-
ment on the matter, quoted by Derek
Stanford, is another way of saying the
same thing;—
And then, posed with the ques-
tion of why he “uses poetry
instead of prose,” he replies:
“Well, if we have to be born into
a world so wildly unprosaic as this
one is, what else can be done, if
we mean to be realistic?”
He told me that he does not make
rough draft of his plays and then
polish later, but writes very slowly,
polishing as he goes. Getting the titles
mixed and meaning to ask him what
he thought of Eliot’s “The Confidential
Clerk, which moved from Paris to
Dublin while I was abroad., mystify-
ing the French critics as much as it
has always mystified me, I asked him
how he liked “The Cocktail Party,”
and he surprised me by speaking of it
with moderate enthusiasm. It trans-
pired, though, when the mix-up had
been clarified, that he had been prais-
The Cocktail Party” only because
he liked it so much better than the
other...”
He agreed with me that “Murder in
the Cathedral” (the influence of which
shows clearly in his own early plays)
is by far the best play Eliot has
written. I mentioned to him, as an
outstanding modem play in prose so
near to poetry that the difference is
negligible, Vivian Connell’s “The
Nineteenth Hole of Europe,” and he in
return mentioned some other con-
temporary who has written excellently
in verse—l think it must have been
Charles Williams, from whose “Seed
of Adam” Mr. Stanford quotes the
following lines as another possible
influence on Fry’s technique:—
Dullards of darkness, light’s
lazybones,
poor primitives of our natural
bareness,
where’s your awareness? will
moans and groans
for gold or brawn or brain regain
the way to the entry of Paradise?
up!
Fry is, of course, like Williams and
Eliot, a religious writer. I have liked
him best in the pagan (though still
visionary) mood of “A Phoenix Too
Frequent,” and have thought that, in
“A Sleep of Prisoners” and “The Dark
Is Light Enough” (which I saw at the
Aldwych in London, with Edith Evans
superb as the grand old lady), the
Shakspearian variety and fluidity of
mind which Mr. Stanford rightly
praises in him is codifying too much
into orthodox Quaker pacifism: a view-
point tending to lift his plays too far
above this wicked earth. Yet some-
thing—some infusion of the super-
natural—is certainly needed to lift
poetic comedy above the prosaic; and
never, one must gladly admit, have
there been religious plays so charged
as these with wit and the pure,
enchanted poetry of wonder. Fry’s
own most persuasive definition of his
purposes in “The Lady’s Not for
Burning,” as quoted by Mr. Stanford,
is:—
The first-cousin to an artificial
comedy..,. .1 could see no reason,
though writing such a comedy,
why I should not treat the world
as I see it, a world in which we
are all poised on the edge of
eternity, a world which has deeps
and shadows of mystery, in which
God is anything but a sleeping-
partner.
“An artificial comedy with a differ-
ence, indeed!” Mr. Stanford comments;
and in fact one would have to go to
“The Tempest” for a parallel to this
kind of “religious” comedy.
Fry’s man-servant John (but what
splendor!) had brought us coffee while
we talked by the fire, and I offered the
poet one of my cigarettes. “No,
thank you,” he said with his diffi-
dent smile, “I don’t. I had a dream, a
curious dream, a while ago. I heard a
voice say ‘Smoking is sin.’ So I gave
it up.” He seemed to tell the story
half as a joke; half not.
The last I saw of him, leaving in a
hurry to catch my ship to Australia (he
seemed to think I was taking a rocket
for the moon) he was standing in the
sunshine at his front gate, expecting his
agent to arrive and talk theatre busi-
ness. Across the shining and leafy
canal from him stood the stone house
where Browning lived in London, and
Browning’s scapegrace son Pen, so Fry
told me, used to row on the water
between the two houses.-
Duglas Stewart.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 315
Across
I—Herb1 —Herb is to spoil Josephine and
a wool-producer. (8)
6—Herb introduces your maker of
these puzzles. (5)
9—Bees around a name for W. S.
Gilbert. (3)
11— Attendant of a Roman magistrate
multiplies the initial Of Victor
by 10. (6)
12 — 1-across has the morning off, but
that is in its place, Miss Jackson.
(8)
13 — Staff a British island. (3)
14 — Island in favor of Roy Rene’s
article. (7)
15 — Knucklebones seen by the leg for
the fastest girl in Lithgow. (7)
17 —Firm crescent lawyer of im-
portance during the last reign
squabble, but its dawn. (8)
20 —If backing about sack, shoot
the blaze. (4)
22 111-favored. (4)
23 — A sort of oil and a sort of
machine-gun metal. (8)
25 It is celebrated, but unequipped
for a sit-down meal. (7)
26 Barrel to leave the Italian product
mentioned a little earlier. (4-3)
29—Used to be cut back. (3)
31—Salts for cobbers. (8)
32 Poet surrounds the steamer band
of the sheriff before tea, wine
and milk. (6)
33—It is expected to make an im-
pression kick the bucket
35 — Mathematician and poisoner?
(5)
36 Half-day with the king-emperor
and the Russian emperor in a
Punjab city with a husband of
Mrs. Itsar. (8)
Down
1 — Misdeed sect which includes no
women. (11)
2 About an automobile overturned
by this sports model. (5)
3 The egg-shaped moulding rings
around the volume. (5)
4 -Sailor month of the Jewish
calendar. (2)
5 Parent available by degrees? (4)
7 Greeting activity for a punc-
tured motorist pinching another’s
loot. (9)
8 — A “wonderful” discovery which
is a hoax for Mrs. E. A. Steen.
(5-4)
10 —Paterson prohibition on Josephine.
(5)
13 —The middle name of Ford Hueffer
(alias Ford Ford), a crazy
bullock. (5)
16 —Women only see the French crag
namer. (11)
18 — Peer before the coppers parried.
(9)
19 — There is a Baba child in the
middle to determine the size of
a bore and see a sign of the
zodiac and the French upset. (9)
21 —When our scores are even leaves.
<S)
24 —Stitched direction took a bride.
(5)
27 A girl and I moan when rising.
(5)
28 — Features of a not wholly inhos-
pitable desert are nothing like
Esmond. (5)
30—A Latin affirmative to a non-
Latin collection of countries. (4)
34—Madame Gide upsets me. (2)
Solution to Crossword No. 314


Helping to maintain our standard of living by the manufacture
of high-quality wrapping papers and paperboards that simplify
the transportation and distribution of many basic commodities
that enter our homes daily.
* The term paperboard embraces cardboard,
fibreboard and other heavyweight papers.
Basically the same raw materials are used for
paperboard and paper.
iiili
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne
with Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Mary vale and Broadford in Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W.; and Petrie, Qld. (under construction)
MM,
