

*
SOLERO
SWEET O
The Bulletin
ELECTROPLATING THE LILY —page 25
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3930
Wednesday, June 8, 1955
Price 9dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
ONE of the oldest and most attractive
towns in North-East England is
Hexham, which stands on the banks of
the Tyne in Northumberland. Its earliest
beginnings are veiled in the mists of the
past when Neolithic man built his first
primitive settlement there, but its im-
portance Gates from the 7th century when
St. Wilfred established a monastery at
Hexham.
Roman stones from nearby Corsto-
pitum and Hadrian’s Wall served as
building material, but only the crypt and
west wall of the original Abbey Church
remain, for the ecclesiastical buildings
were burnt and plundered by many in-
vaders. St. Wilfred, who stood in high
favor with the king, had a reputation as
a great builder of churches. His Abbey
at Hexham was among the finest of these,
and the chronicler, Adam Bede, observes
that no such church could be seen on
the western side of the Alps. The design
of the Abbey was imported from Italy
and this influence can be seen today in
the crypt. Between the years 681 and
821 Hexham was the cathedral of a
Saxon bishopric.
The original, abbey church was destroyed
by Danish raiders in 875, and the second
church, an Augustinian priory, was built
on its ruins in the 12th century and is
a fine example of Early English architec-
ture. It contains several beautiful fea-
tures, among which are the choir, chancel
and transept. The night-staircase leading
from the transept to the monks’ dormitory
is of particular interest as it is one of the
two examples of its kind still existing in
Britain.
Other notable features are the 15th-
century pulpit, the choir stalls and the
stone bishop's chair which was brought
from Italy by St. Wilfred. In later years
this chair served as a sanctuary-stool and
is a relic of an age when the power of
the church was greater than that of the
law. The limits of sanctuary, within
which a fugitive from justice could claim
the protection of the church, extended for
a mile around the building and its limits
were marked by stones. It is one of the
only two pre-Norman thrones in England ;
the other is at Canterbury.
In the south transept, is a carved stone
depicting a mounted soldier riding over
a prostrate barbarian. It is the gravestone
of a Roman soldier and it bears the
inscription:
“To the gods, the shades, Ftdvinus,
standard-bearer of the cavalry of
Petriana of the white troop, twenty-
five years of age and seven years of
service is laid here.”
No. 249: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
A SANCTUARY STILL, HEXHAM ABBEY ONCE SHELTERED MANY A WRONGDOER


BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit the metropolitan area
and pay cash. Correspondence
from country or inter-State
invited.
BERKELOUW
38 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. 8X1243
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
will find the book you want —fiction,
sport, history, science, textbooks, classics or
ecclesiastics. Write BOOKHUNTER now.
Quick service, moderate charges.
The Red Page
SCHLUNKE STORIES
E. O. Schlunke’s first book, The Man
in the Silo and Other Stories (Angus
and Robertson), has been compiled,
with one exception, from “The
Bulletin,” to which he has been a con-
tributor for more than 20 years.
Not many short-story writers have
such long careers; Schlunke’s adapt-
ability to new scenes and changing
times has made him various and kept
him fresh. A line may be traced in this
book from his stories about his
Germanic forebears and neighbor-
farmers to those about Italian
prisoners-of-war, to stories of post-war
prosperity and schoolchildren’s buses,
to stories of the holidays of a pros-
perous farmer at seaside boarding-
houses, to stories of car-deals, house-
deals, proposals to buy shops in the
city—an expanding literature keeping
pace with an expanding economy.
With all this, he remains a farmer
and grazier; one of the very few
successful men-on-the-land who have
written fiction and remained farmers.
And so from him you get, not memories
charmed by sentiment, or a novelist’s
effort to interpret a man-on-the-land;
but the immediate feeling, and this the
expression of a mind constantly savor-
ing and classifying impressions—to
have seen Schlunke at a Sydney party
taking in, eyes half-closed, the atmos-
phere, is to know fear ... or, at any
rate, a mild perturbation.
For Schlunke is in some ways a
frightening author. He is independent;
he is honest; he has the lordly manner
of the lord of the manor, and on his
literary estate he deals out life and
death. His contempt for the city man
and the weakling is too real to be dis-
guised. He knows, from Mozart’s and
Beethoven’s slow movements (for it is
hard to mention a gramophone-record
he hasn’t heard of or hasn’t got), that
man is capable of the tenderest and
most delicate of feelings; but his Albert
Renshaw, Esquire, in “Escape of a
Prisoner,” with the best will in the
world, can no more understand the
tremblings of p.-0.-w. Leonardo Finoti
at his slightest bark of command than
an Alsatian could understand the hesi-
tancies of a Pomeranian. And his
Faraday, feeling that the la-di-da
manners of his city-guest and the
guest’s city-slicker fondling of Mrs.
Faraday have caused amusement to
the neighbors, calmly shoots the guest
“by accident” in the leg—a well-meant
hint. It is of course a delicacy of feel-
ing, an ability to see the comic side of
such matters, that separates Schlunke
from these characters; but in his actual
sympathies . . .
Frightening as the Schlunke con-
tempt may be, it is the Schlunke indig-
nation that is most scarifying—it is
generally reserved for agents. Perhaps
“Into My Parlor” is the best example
of it: the story of a house-agent and
his big-business backer tricking and
bluffing a widow and her daughter
into underselling their home. There is
no sentimentalisation of the widow,
and no condemnation of the intriguers;
almost with admiration he unfolds,
turn by turn, their technique, and
makes a cold assessment of their
motives: —
The old lady smiles on him in her
maternal way and says, “I came to
you because Father always said you
were the most honest agent he had
ever dealt with.”
The agent gives a little start. It
is not his conscience pricking him,
but a sudden misgiving that all his
life he might have been a bit more
honest than was necessary.
Yet as detail follows detail, the
reader is slowly filled with the Schlunke
rage; the present reviewer, on first
seeing this story in typescript, rose
from his desk in a burning frenzy that
could be put out only by several
draughts of tepid “Bulletin” tea.
Traces of the same indignation may
be found in the business-agent of
“You Buy a Cafe,” the car-agent at
the Rotary dinner of “Sale of a Car-
Owner,” or the agricultural-agent
showing the squatter how to avoid taxes
in “Riding the Boom,” but humor,
sex and even goodwill intrude upon
these. “Into My Parlor,” for its pure
and undeviating irony, must be one
of the finest things of the kind in
Australian writing.
But Schlunke’s fury with agents, the
farmer’s main contact with the bitter
outer world, which may be seen again
in his study of the young accountant
in the novel “Feather Your Nest,”
published last year in “The Bulletin,”
is probably not his best recommenda-
tion to his many readers, or, indeed,
his greatest strength. His own descent
and his study of long-established
Germanic farmers make almost folk-
tales of such stories as “The Irling,”
about what Waltie Kronitz did to Hilda
Nietzschke, and how she was avenged,
and “The Heretic of Isola,” who
shocked his little German community
by deciding not to work any more.
Here the tone softens to amusement,
and not a little pride of inheritance,
and even, in “The Psychologists,” to
charm.
Then again, in “Marks’s Cutter,” the
story of a gang of travelling chaff-
cutters and their “train,” drawn by a
wheezing traction-engine; the exact
detail of getting it to go; the visit of the
bailiff to commandeer it as security for
the proprietor’s maintenance-money—
here in the story of men’s struggle with
a machine there are signs of an admira-
tion Schlunke rarely expresses for the
farmer’s enemy, the land.
It would be as hard to pick out
favorites among these stories as it
would be to pick out the favorite
ingredients of a cake. The technician
might choose a tour-de-force like “The
Man in the Silo,” with its ending left
high in the air. The present reviewer
might choose “Cheap Labor,” about
the two Italian p.-0.-w.s who badgered
and enticed their farmer-billeter into
giving them more and more money, or
“The Enthusiastic Prisoner,” about the
Italian p.-0.-w. who took eager control
of the affairs of a go-as-you-please
farmer. Those on the land might
choose among the many stories that
would remind them of types they know.
City-dwellers might prefer the busi-
ness-deals, or a study like “The Admir-
able Landlady,” an agonisingly
accurate account of a shoestring
seaside boarding-house.
In all it makes a brilliant entertain-
ment, and not least because in its
unfailing first-hand and contemporary
accuracy the Australian short-story is
brought up-to-date.
R. Me.
TO MEET THE CHILD
I await the signal for setting forth, the
journey
To be taken alone across an unmapped
country,
A land now tremulous with pain and
mirage,
Now bright beyond the focus of my
vision.
I know that when I reach that land’s
extremity
There is a stranger to be met with,
stranger
To be known and loved, upon whose
sleeping features
Silence and Time alone have set their
fingers
Saying, “Be wise, be silent till that
meeting.
Wait like a seed the warmth of love
enfolding
In darkness deeper than earth. Be patient,
sleeper
At the world’s centre, for the world
awaits you.”
Then shall I look upon that face with
knowledge
And eyes look back at mine with
recognition,
And together we shall return to our own
country
With word of wonders, by another way.
N.S.W,
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Nature for the young
Specifically written for young readers.
Charles Barrett’s Wild Life of Australia
and New Guinea (Heinemann) is an
excellent general survey covering birds,
animals, reptiles, fish and insects.
There are 83 illustrations, and the
dish of information is pleasantly, if
mildly, enlivened by anecdotes drawn
from the author’s own experiences as
a naturalist or from the writings of
others. Thus the young reader may
learn how Mother Carey’s chickens got
their name—it comes from Mater Cara,
meaning the Virgin Mary; and all the
petrels are named after St. Peter be-
cause they can “walk” on the water —
or may hear the odd story of the pair of
welcome-swallows which
built in a coach running from a sea-
side resort to a township 30 miles
away. Many free trips the brooding
bird made. The coach-driver was
happy about things, and in due time
four little swallows born in a travel-
ling nursery were on the wing and
away.
Or, when Mr. Barrett himself is on
the wallaby, may stroll with him to see
the barking-spiders of the inland:—
The author found many of their
burrows near Alice Springs, and
blackfellows brought to him several
barking-spiders large, brownish-
black ugly creatures. They did not
bark, but produced a shrill whistling
sound by rubbing their palps against
their jaws, or mandibles.
The tone is a little too juvenile and
the information too familiar and gen-
eralised for the book to appeal greatly
to the adult Australian reader. Never-
theless, it is pleasant to dip into for
its anecdotes and, since the approach
is by no means excessively juvenile,
it would make a useful introduction to
Australian wild-life for those thou-
sands of newcomers who probably have
never heard of the wombat, don’t know
which end of the kangaroo is which
and, so one hears, occasionally mistake
the kookaburra for an edible fowl.
Flinders Miscellany
Limited to 500 copies and priced
£2 10s. H. M. Cooper’s The Unknown
Coast (published by the author and
distributed by F. W. Preece, Ltd.,
Adelaide) is typically an amateur
author’s labor of love: the object of
Mr. Cooper’s admiration and research
being the navigator Matthew Flinders.
It is more a “compilation” than a
book—but full of interest, however it
is to be classified.
Glossy paper and a very wide line
of type do not help the readability of
the text, which is further interrupted by
too many sub-headings and by tabula-
tions of the places where Flinders
anchored and the place-names he left
on the map. The text is taken, in
extracts, from the voyager’s “rough”
and “fair” logbooks, jerky and some-
what mathematical in style, with abrupt
interpolations from other sources, such
as the diary of Seaman Samuel Smith.
The result is neither a smooth-
running narrative such as one would get
from a historian nor, with the inter-
polations, commentaries, tabulations
and descriptions of memorials to
Flinders, the clean raw-material of a
logbook.
However, the difficulties and
minutiae will need no apology so far
as specialists in Flinders, or in Aus-
tralian voyagers in general, are
concerned. On the contrary they will
be grateful to Mr. Cooper for thus
making readily accessible his sub-
stantial extracts from the two log-
books, which have not previously been
published; also the bits from Samuel
Smith, who describes the loss of the
cutter in waters infested with
“ravinous shirks” and whose diary is in
the Mitchell Library. Local historians
and South Australians with an interest
in their coastline will find the list of
placenames and the subsequent notes
on them very useful —for instance, if
you wish to find out how Cape
Donington got its name, you turn to
Mr. Cooper and learn:—
Donington, the birthplace of
Matthew Flinders, is a charming old-
world market-town, set amidst the
fens, ten miles from Boston and a
little less from the waters of The
Wash.... The beauty of Donington
parish church, partly 13th century,
is enhanced by its magnificent spire,
200 ft. high, which is a landmark for
miles around. It contains a
memorial dedicated to Flinders.
And, of course, the general reader
who is prepared to clamber over the
various obstacles in his way will have
the pleasure of meeting Flinders in
person or. in the logbooks, as close to
that as is now possible: patiently
surveying the coast; in danger of ship-
wreck among islands; teaching manners
to seamen with a rope’s-end and to flies
by slapping at them (“But the society
of man soon wrought a change in the
manners even of these little animals.
They soon became more cautious; went
off the face when a hand was lifted up.
and in three or four days they behaved
themselves orderly like other flies”);
troubled by ants in his hair; being plied
with mullet by his “faithful Bongaree,”
who went hungry himself so that the
voyager might be fed; discovering the
rottenness of the Investigator when the
master and carpenter reported, “Out
of ten top timbers on the larboard side,
near the fore channel, four are sound,
one partly rotten and five entirely
rotten.... In a strong gale with much
sea running the ship would hardly
escape foundering”; being shipwrecked
ip the Porpoise and abandoned by
Captain Palmer; taken prisoner by the
French in Mauritius
Mr. Cooper is an ex-Navy officer
who, besides delving into the archives,
has sailed over the routes taken by
Flinders, and has visited every spot
where the voyager or a member of his
crew landed during the survey of the
South Australian coast.
Reviewed Briefly
Come a-Waltzing Matilda with Me:
Bill Beatty (Ure Smith Pty., Ltd.). Mr.
Beatty has a light-hearted way with
facts: “Captain Moonlight”—or“Moon-
lite”—for instance, whom he says
“came from New Zealand,” did in fact
bless this country with his presence
after fighting in the war in the Wai-
kato; but before that he came from
northern Ireland. However, the book
is subtitled “Australian folk-lore and
forgotten tales” and perhaps it is more
important that folk-lore should flourish
than that it should be accurate. These
paragraphs and short articles, on shin-
plasters and stockwhips, Hollow-log
Jack and Doggy Tom, the ghost that
opened the gates at Glengallan and the
wailing at the Wilga waterhole, some
familiar and some not, are all packed
with interest.
* * * *
Malta and the Maltese: Charles A.
Price (Georgian House). Subtitled “A
study in 19th century migration” this
is the first part of a general history
which the author is writing about
southern European settlers in Australia.
Here, in a sober and scholarly style,
we have chiefly the historical back-
ground concerning over-population in
Malta and the pioneer efforts to relieve
the situation.
* * * *
Death Round the Bend: J. Halket
Millar (R. W. Stiles Co., Ltd., Nelson,
N.Z.). Presumably because it never
had convicts, except strays from Aus-
tralia, New Zealand also lacked bush-
rangers: a most unfortunate omission
from its historical pageant which the
three gentlemen of this history—Bur-
gess, Sullivan and Thomas Kelly; trans-
portees to Van Diemen’s Land who
made their way across the Tasman —did
their best to remedy. They were, in
fact, such a ferocious pack of killers
that Ned Kelly is reported to have said,
at Jerilderie, that he would like to go
to New Zealand and shoot them for
dishonoring his profession. Mr. Millar’s
history is based on the official records,
and, while hardly a work of literature,
is lively —and deadly—reading.


mm**
U.
: m
I
V..
*,• :
i
a;
■IS
mmm
•: ■
Anthony
HORDERNS’
OFFER YOU
SHOES
QUALITY
AND
COURTEOUS
SERVICE!
I*l-
- It
It
17
Anti'doc\wise from left:
Brogue, mahogany or black. Full and
half sizes. 5-11. Size 11, 2/6 extra. 90/-
English last, black or tan calf. Full
and half sizes, 5-11. Fittings D, E, F,
G. Size 11, 2/6 extra. Priced at 85/-
Golf shoe, tan or black, rubber soles.
Full, half sizes, 541. 11, 2/6 ex. 85/-
Derby, tan willow, black calf. Full and
half sizes, 5-11. Size 11, 2/6 extra. 85/-
Byron last, tan or black. Full and half
sizes, 5-11. Size 11, 2/6 extra. 87/6
King last, tan or black, medium fit'
tings. Full and half sizes, 5-11. 85/-
Leighton last, glace kid, light soles.
Full and half sizes, 5 to 10. Price 85/-
Hi
• 5.x
m
■
1
m
&
I
' 'v
\
imx"
r
mmm
■ *
aiii
mv,■: : 'mzm
& '»«
msm
■
mmkm
v*
mm
Jes, ’Phone and Mail Orders. Men’s Shoes, Ground Floor, George Street. Postal Address: Box 2712, G.P.0., Sydney. ’Phone: 80951. T O.P.S. fo* Service


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 8, 1955
Vol. 76—No, 3930
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box 25211
"Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
HYDROGEN POLITICS
THE political scene at Canberra as the session ends
is a somewhat depressing one. The Opposition
party has the appearance of a family which has
been up all night in a hurricane. “Labor,” at the
fag-end of the session, looks like a party which if
thrown to the electoral wolves tomorrow would be
reduced to dry bone and bristle overnight. Realists,
most of its members do not attempt to deny the
disastrous implications of the Victorian poll, and
the debate on redistribution of boundaries gave
them ample opportunity to make a mirror of their
disquieted minds.
On the Government side there is scarcely less
gloom than on the “Labor” side. There is no
disguising the fact that, whatever the merits of the
situation, there is open and bitter discontent among
back-benchers with the Ministry and with its leader-
ship, especially on defence. Neither is there any
doubt that behind these attacks (whatever
may be the subject for the moment) there lies as a
basis the topic which pervades all politics in Europe
and America, and which is now becoming the major
issue here, too —the hydrogen-bomb.
The heart of the discussion and consequently
of the “revolt” in the party is Mr. W. C. Wentworth,
recently returned from a world-tour on which he
studied atomic development and defence. Mr. Went-
worth has his critics—in plenty—but few deny his
sincerity or force of character; an increasing
number are noting his capacity for being right
well in advance of the event. He was, for instance,
the jirst man in politics in Australia who assessed
the dangerous potentialities of the Communists as
an industrial force and who accurately pictured the
weight of influence which they exercised over Dr.
Evatt and his policies.
Harsh, determined and often tactless, Went-
worth has now, through his private bill, launched
a campaign in which for once he has on his side
a universal public fear; also facts to operate with
that the Government cannot deny. For that matter,
it does not want to deny them, though it is not
anxious to produce panic by discussion which it
considers premature and which it thinks should
only be launched by way of explanation of a
defence technique not yet devised and the basis of
which, in its view, there has not been even enough
time to review.
What Mr. Wentworth has discovered abroad is
not new to Governments or military tacticians, but
it has not been ciystallised in the public mind, in
which, however, it lurks as a vague obsession of
horror. In effect, the facts are that with the develop-
ment of the fusion-method of atomic-bomb con-
struction—hydrogen-bomb—in place of the fission-
uranium bomb, the explosive powers and reach of
the major weapon have multiplied almost inimit-
ably; that bombs have become cheap and easy to
make, relatively to the original atom-bomb. More-
over, bombs have become small in bulk, easier to
carry, capable of being carried infinitely further in
an operation and of a concealment impossible with
the original of 1945. Whereas the Hiroshima bomb,
a mild weapon of puny force compared with the
fusion-bomb exploded in the Marshall Islands last
year, could only be carried in a Superfortress with
a reconstructed bomb-bay, the hydrogen-bomb,
whose “fall-out” radiation-effects can be felt 200
miles away downwind and which can completely
blot out human life within a three- to five-mile
radius, according to current conditions, might be
carried in a Thunderjet fighter or fast, light long-
range bomber of the Canberra type. In the United
States already there is a stockpile of bombs of
various atomic types literally capable of generating
explosive forces hundreds of times as powerful as
the whole of the bomb explosions of World
War 11. What the stockpiles of Russia and Britain
are no one knows, any more than anybody can
assume the cumulative result if by some accident
an appreciable proportion of these titanic weapons
were to be detonated —or whether it is possible for
such a catastrophe to happen.
Obviously the only effective defence against the
fusion-bomb is to prevent its being dropped, and
it is upon the acceptance of this view that Govem-
ments and their critics of the Wentworth type are
apt to fall out. Mr. Wentworth has so far said no
more about the facts, and, in fact, has said less, than
Mr. Churchill. Nobody else in Australia has said
anything very much to arrest attention. But where
issue is joined is on the question of appropriate
action.
Both parties, Government and critics, construc-
tive and otherwise, would undoubtedly agree that,
because of the new portability of fusion- and fission-
weapons and the increasingly high speeds and wide
range of aircraft, the only absolute defence against
bombing is political action to prevent war. Even
if every nation had so full a realisation of the
terrible consequences and responsibility involved in
starting atomic war, desperation is the mother of
temptation. Even if the mass-destruction involved
would be a complete repudiation of every tenet of
Christian humanity of the West and of every tenet
of the sanctity of mass-man of the Leninist Marxists,
the possibilities have to be faced.
Yet Governments are confronted with a tripartite
and novel situation. They must envision the possi-
bility that the bomb may be dropped, anywhere and
at any time, and thus must prepare both to intercept
it or to invalidate its result as occasion demands.
This is a giant piece of organisation before which
both they and the taxpayers —who always want it
both ways—quail. It cannot be prepared for in a
day; hence almost every Government in the world
is subject to charges of sloth and hesitancy.
At the same time, Governments must equally
envisage the possibility that the bomb will not be
used, but that war may nevertheless come on con-
ventional lines as in Korea and Indo-China; and
they must therefore prepare for normal war on a
world-war scale. And in doing this they are neces-
sarily faced by their critics with bitter charges that
they are troglodyte in thinking and in method.
Thirdly, they must implement the political plan of
defence which involves a subordination of warn-
ings of danger and an open-handed, public and
apparently guileless approach to their enemies. And
this lays them open to the charge of incaution and
lack of realism.
For all that, discussions such as those
which are rending the Government party at Can-
berra are vitally healthy at such a juncture and
on such an issue. Governments can take responsi-
bilities which involve heavy financial burdens on
individual taxpayers only when a great force of
public opinion drives them on. And the force of
public opinion can only be developed by criticism,
fierce in relation to the weight and urgency of the
issues. Sometimes such criticism is bound to be
extreme and too advanced for its time.
In this case nobody, however, can gainsay the
basic facts put forward .by the critics, while
sympathising with the Government in its problems
and its difficulty in striking a balance between
what it knows ought to be done and what those
who are called on to pay for their own security are
prepared to allow it to do.
M.P.s and Broader Minds
THERE is an aphorism which says that travel
broadens the mind. Like many other sayings, it has
been repeated so often that it has become generally
accepted, though many poets and philosophers have
disputed its universal application. The Roman
poet Horace held that “they change their sky, who
cross the sea, but not their temperament.” Bacon
wrote that travel was an education only to the
young and Macaulay that a man who “is ordinarily
inaccurate in narration is likely to be more than
ordinarily inaccurate when he talks of his own
travels.” All three would probably have agreed
with Tom Hood, who expressed in rather common-
place verse the thought that although some minds
may be improved by travel, others resemble copper-
wire, “which gets the narrower by going farther.”
Australian politicians, who have never been
highly rated either as poets or philosophers, have
almost to a man subscribed to the belief that travel
broadens the mind. It goes without saying that
they feel that they themselves should be the
travellers and, with a few notable exceptions, they
have meant it to be taken for granted that the travel
should be at public expense.
Although the tacit admission that their minds
could do with a little broadening is a touch of
humility too seldom seen in our elected masters, the
weakness of the plea is the assumption—with which
none of the four authorities quoted would agree—
that all politicians’ minds are capable of being
broadened. Room for improvement is not the same
thing as capacity to improve.
Travel-mindedness is nothing new among our
politicians; gold-passes have been wafting M.P.s,
State and Federal, over the railway-systems of
Australia from as far back as the memory of the
oldest rolling-stock in the service can go. The
theory behind the gold-pass was that it would
enable legislators to learn something of their home
State outside their own electorates. All Australian
railways being Government-owned, reciprocity
between the various Parliaments soon followed,
with the Commonwealth railways completing the
link-up. If free travel in itself meant anything, our
Parliamentarians should be the best-informed
people in the Commonwealth on matters connected
with the resources and possibilities of Australia.
Are they? Admittedly many of them have
made good use of the opportunity, but far more
have merely regarded the privilege as a free pass to
holiday-resorts. The majority of Australian M.P.s
represent city-seats, are preoccupied with metro-
politan matters and leave debates on rural affairs
to country members. Many of them could write all
they know about country problems on their gold-
passes without noticeably defacing them.
North Queensland is one part of Australia
which can have no illusions about the value of
visits from touring politicians. Every winter droves
of Federal M.P.s respond to the urge to “See
Sunny Queensland.” Like other tourists, they
marvel at the Barrier Reef, bask in the tropic sun-
shine at Cairns and admire the Atherton Tableland.
But for all the good it does the north, they might
just as well stay south in the cold. Development
of that rich region is proceeding, if at all, more
slowly than most other settled parts of the continent.
Mr. H. B. Turner, M.H.R. for Billy Hughes’s
old seat Bradfield, last week advocated travel as a
means of equipping members to take a more intelli-
gent interest in foreign affairs. He complained that
the last debate on the subject exposed members’
ignorance on affairs in South-East Asia, and he
urged that a Parliamentary delegation should be
sent to Malaya and other countries of vital concern
to Australia.
The end Mr. Turner is seeking is admirable—
the ignorance displayed by some of those who join in
the debates on foreign affairs is exceeded only by
the apathy of others who don’t even stay in the
House to listen —but his suggested remedy is not
the answer. If it could be guaranteed that a free
trip to Malaya would ensure that the tripper would
be able to make an honest and accurate appraisal
of conditions there and would be willing to debate
and vote on the basis of that appraisal, without
any consideration of party-strings, then the cost of
sending the whole 183 members of the two Houses
would be money well spent. But would any believer
in the efficacy of travel as a mind-broadener really
claim that anything like that would result?
Opinions on foreign affairs are determined by
other factors than on-the-spot observation. The
honorable member for Bradfield and the honorable
member for East Sydney could make a tour of
South-East Asia together, seeing the same places,
interviewing the same people and never once being
out of each other’s company, yet could—and would
—come back with views as much opposed to each
other as before they went away. Mr. Ward’s subse-
quent speech on the subject could, in fact, be
written by any competent student of Hansard, with
very little margin of error, before the two members
left Australia.
Preconceived ideas color most men’s apprecia-
tion of foreign scenes. The case of Soviet Russia is
the outstanding example of this. Most of those who
have managed to peep behind the Iron Curtain have
come out with the same ideas as in they went. The
Dean of Canterbury sees the Soviet State as an
earthly paradise, but the Archbishop of York, given
the same facilities for travel, would probably find
quite a different simile for it.
The Government, it seems, may accede to Mr.
Turner’s request and arrange a series of “Cook’s
tours” of South-East Asia for Federal members,
reputedly because it feels that this may lead them
to take a more realistic attitude towards Australia’s
interest in that part of the world. The expectation
seems rather futile.
There might be something in the idea if the
trips were confined to those members who have
already shown an intelligent interest in foreign
affairs, but that is most unlikely. By former pre-
cedents they would be allotted on a roster system
with members lining-up for their tickets like
American film- and radio-stars queuing-up in
’Frisco for the “gravy train” to Sydney Stadium.
And once the idea is accepted, where is it to end?
Our relationships with America are vital. Must
delegations of M.P.s be sent there, too? And to
Britain? And Canada? South Africa? .. .
When a business concern has dealings with
another country it often sends one of its directors
or a couple of technical men away to look things
over and report. Then it acts on their report. It
doesn’t send its whole board and then follow up
that action by organising foreign tours for its share-
holders. Federal Cabinet consists of 20 Ministers,
and their departments are teeming with experts.
Most Ministers and many of their experts have been
abroad at public expense, and the results of their
travels should be available to rank-and-file mem-
bers. With this source of information at his disposal
an intelligent member with a real interest in world
affairs should be able to keep abreast with events
without travelling much further than the Parlia-
mentary library. Others could make a rocket-
trip to Mars or Jupiter and still have their horizon
bounded by the line round their own electorate.
If a more-informed approach to foreign affairs
—and to domestic affairs, too —is wanted, then the
solution does not lie in trying to broaden minds
already stretched to their natural limits. What is
needed is a system which will fill Parliament with
men with broader minds.


“PUT YOURSELVES IN MY HANDS, BOYS, AND Y’ CAN’T LOSE!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Bolte in the Saddle
’With three seats —Prahran, Bendigo and
Morwell —still in doubt at the weekend,
but with the prospect of having an overall
majority, Mr. Bolte—the “e” at the end
of his name is pronounced —seemed to
be in full command of the Victorian poli-
tical situation whatever might eventuate.
The new Premier is a smallish, active
Western District farmery alert and like-
able, conciliatory and, in the present cir-
cumstances, apparently quite equable and
ready to be reasonable with everybody.
As he expresses it, he proposes to pro-
ceed with a full sense of his responsibility
in the Federal as well as in the State
sphere. He is not carried away by the
conviction that “Labor” has been
wrecked. Indeed, he holds that the effects
of the “split” have been exaggerated and
that actually there was a swing against
“Labor” at the last Federal elections so
great as to make it clear that Mr. Cain s
majority was already in peril.
He professes not to be perturbed by
Country-party dominance in the Legisla-
tive Council, and if he carries his view-
point into practice in dealing with the
small Country-party bloc in the Assembly,
that hard-bitten and sour little party will
find it very difficult to be unreasonable
with him. From the first he made it plain
that he was prepared, if it became neces-
sary to form a coalition Government, to
give them seats in the Cabinet in propor-
tion to their numbers, but no more. Over
his own party he seems already to have
established a sort of benevolent ascen-
dancy which was obvious on Friday
when the party meeting, anticipated to
be a day-long haggle and exhaustive
ballot for Cabinet places, “collapsed”
before lunch after the Premier-elect had
been given authority to choose his own
team.
If Mr. Bolte goes ahead with his tasks
in the spirit in which he has begun, it
seems that Victoria is in for a period of
unspectacular but dynamic government
and that the newcomer to office will be a
healthy influence on the politics of the
Commonwealth and of the other States.
His emergence and that of Mr. Robson,
the force of whose personality and accord
with the Country Party has not yet been
fully felt, should put a new complexion
on State politics in the Eastern States and
make a certainty of the strong probability
that the shabby Cahill and Gair Gov-
ernments and their shabbier bands of
hangers-on are bound for the political
scrap-heap.
Worse Than Sharks
Any epidemic which laid low 11,580
people in 90 days (475 fatally) and con-
tinued to kill and injure at pretty much
the same rate would have the Australian
people, health-authorities. Governments,
and the medical profession so alarmed
that nothing would be spared to stop it.
Yet those are the figures for road-casual-
ties (July, August, September last) and
about the only public response is some
tut-tutting.
Most of the blame for this carnage lies
with the people. They have become
apathetic about road-accidents, so much
so that a newspaper would never think
of front-paging a road-death, whereas the
rare shark-tragedy gets posters and pic-
tures and a small boy bitten by a spider
can be sure of a whole page. Newspapers
know what their readers want, but if
road-fear was as widespread as shark-
fear the accident figures would topple.
Analysing the 90-day figures, the
statistician divided the killed into pedes-
trians, passengers, drivers, motor-cyclists
and cyclists. Of the 475 killed, 182 were
pedestrians, the highest number. This
draws attention to the fact that whereas
motor-drivers are bound by strict laws
pedestrians aren’t. On dark roads a
motorist must have head- and tail-lights,
a pedestrian is unlit and often in dark
clothing; a motorist must travel on a
defined portion of the road, a pedestrian
may run all over it; a motorist must travel
a straight course, a pedestrian can go any
old how ; for every motorist who ignores
a pedestrian-crossing, a hundred pedes-
trians do so —in short, the pedestrian can
do pretty well as he likes, and it’s no
wonder the statistician noted that “the
biggest factor in the deathroll was the
failure of pedestrians to cross the road
safely.”
The next-biggest factor was “inatten-
tive driving,” and no experienced motorist
will be astonished by that. Drunken-
driving was well down the list with 625
of the 23,606 accidents. It may cheer
surviving pedestrians to know that
drivers caused 15,091 accidents, whereas
pedestrians caused 1642, but the trouble
is that few pedestrians involved live to
tell the tale.
All of which gets us nowhere in the
face of the stark figures. These are merely
for one quarter of the year—the crashing
and killing and maiming go on. And
though we are a motoring people we
plainly can’t afford it.
Bad roads, bad lighting, speed, drink,
careless driving, fool-pedestrians, crazy
motor-cyclists—all play their deadly part.
But, in view of the fact that for the past
20 years at least police and road-safety
councils have done their level best to
promote road-safety, it seems that public
apathy to their work plays as big a part
as anything else.
Perhaps if that were tackled in a con-
tinuous campaign some sort of public
safety-consciousness would develop.
Blaming the Umpire
There has seldom been an electoral re-
distribution which has pleased all poli-
tical parties and there has never been
one which pleased all members. Always
there are complaints that the Government
has exerted influence to improve its own
position and grumblings from some of
its own members because it has not used
its influence to safeguard their seats. But
the intemperate language of the attacks
by “Labor” members on the latest Federal
redistribution, particularly in New South
Wales, goes beyond the bounds of tradi-
tional complaints.
The rules laid down for the re-drawing
of Federal electoral boundaries do not
leave much room for gerrymandering;
the Constitution prescribes the principles
governing the time and method of redis-
tribution, and almost the only opportunity
the Government has of influencing the
change lies in the choosing of the elec-
toral commissioners.
Criticism of new boundaries is of neces-
sity criticism of the probity of the com-
missioners, and the “Labor” members who
protested against the N. S. Wales redis-
tribution made no attempt to disguise this.
Dr. Evatt said that the boundaries had
been manipulated to assist the Govern-
ment ; Mr. Haylen that the commissioners
had yielded to Government pressure and
that there had been “ironclad gerry-
mandering,” Mr. Ward, who a few
months ago was in apprehension lest his
seat (East Sydney) should be one of the
two inner-metropolitan seats doomed
for extinction by post-war movements of
population, is now complaining that it
has been made too safe.
Wherever the commissioners were able to
place Labor votes into what was already a
Labor stronghold, they did it. Wherever
they were able to weaken a Labor man who
had only a slender majority, they did it,
and wherever there was a Liberal man in
doubt they have strengthened his seat.
They have made East Sydney a blue-ribbon
Labor constituency, and have endangered
the Labor seat of Phillip, next door to it.
The three commissioners who decided the
new electoral boundaries of New South
Wales were appointed by the Menzies
Government. But they are the same three
commissioners who were responsible for
the 1948 redistribution. On that occa-
sion they were appointed by the Chifley
Government, of which Evatt and Ward
were notable adornments and Haylen a
staunch supporter.
At Benelong Point
Whether Sydney really needs the State
Opera House which is to be built at
Benelong Point as urgently as it needs
extensions to the National Gallery, where
most of the pictures spend their time
growing fungus in the cellars, is open to
question.
Opera will be fully alive in Australia,
and really worthy of State support, when
operas are composed and written here on
Australian themes; and that day seems
even further distant than the production
of Australian plays by Australian actors.
Still, anything which adds to the cultural
possibilities of the city, which must
ultimately benefit all Australia, is to be
welcomed.
The site, though a little out of the
way, is a good one. Disfigured only by
the tram-roost which is to be pulled down
to make way for the Opera House, the
green park thrusting out into the Harbor
from the Botanic Gardens, decorated
with palms and fig-trees and not far
from Pinchgut, where Slessor’s lanterns
float with light, is already a beauty-spot,
and, with plenty of parking-space near by
and the Macquarie-street buses and the
varied transport of the Quay not far off,
it should be possible to reach the place
easily enough.
All it needs is a handsome building.
There’s to be a competition to decide
the design, before the public is asked to
contribute to the cost, but already a very
lively controversy has started about it,
touched-off by Sir John Barbirolli, who
said that the building should be “a part
of Sydney, warm, gay and intimate,”
that an opera-house should look like an
opera-house as a church should look like
a church, that it should be “classical” in
design and that “nothing could be worse
than to have it look like the Festival Hall
in London.”
Some Sydney architects have supported
Sir John, others have vehemently
opposed him ; but surely the distinguished
musician is right. The Festival Hall has
to be seen to be believed.
One of the most interesting things
about it is the children’s playground-
put there, presumably, so that the tiny-
tots can gambol through the night while
their parents are at the opera. It is all
in concrete and looks like an exhibition
of modernist sculpture; which, in fact,
it is. There are concrete tree-trunks for
the little ones to fall off or bark their
shins on, concrete “shapes” to bewilder
their little minds, and concrete caverns
and tunnels wherein they are expected to
practise hiding from bombs, or, possibly,
to derive some curious Freudian consola-
tion.
Almost everyone admits that from the
outside the building is indescribable —
like a gasometer or a crematorium. In-
side it is a perfect bureaucratic beehive ;
cold, glassy, cellular ; full of immense
frozen spaces which, railed-off from the
Thames outside the windows, give the
concertgoer the strangest impression of
being on an aircraft-carrier in a blizzard.
The seats are comfortable ; the acoustics,
now that at enormous cost they have
rebuilt the stage, which used to allow
the tapping of ballet-dancers’ feet to
drown the music and deafen the audience,
are perfect.
The classical, too, can have its defects.
The Opera House in Florence, built in a
horseshoe on the pattern of the Colosseum
in Rome, forces those seated at the
sides to stand and crane forward at
right-angles to get a glimpse of the stage.
Only giraffes could really be comfortable
in it.
Sydney obviously needs some sort of
compromise between the two extremes;
and by all means something “warm, gay
and intimate.”
Tito Wins
Results of the Belgrade talks between
Khrushchev and Tito will be felt in the
Four-Power Conference, when and if it
takes place. There appears to have been
an upheaval in the Russian Government
which has resulted in the cashiering of
the last of Stalin’s Old Guard, Molotov,
and his replacement —in an apprentice
capacity —by the editor of “Pravda.’
Khrushchev himself, ever since his visit
to China last year, has done all the Soviet
Union’s foreign negotiating—without im-
pressing anybody. So far his diplomacy
has succeeded only where his main argu-
ment has been the local presence of the
Red Army.
The Chinese got .a great deal out of
him in the way of material and technical
assistance, but appear at the moment to
be moving away from, rather than
towards, Russia. The sorriest day for
Russia may in time be remembered as
that on which Chiang Kai-shek disappears
from the scene and Peking is recognised
by the Western Powers. There is, among
observers, a growing feeling that, what-
ever China’s own ambitions may be,
its relations with Moscow might well be
described in the same terms as were once
used to account for Japanese docility
under the American occupation: “Who
wouldn’t be docile with somebody who
was giving you 4000 million dollars for
nothing?”
In Belgrade it seems to be Tito’s
triumph that he not only succeeded in
using the visitors to emphasise his own
viewpoint, but also persuaded them to
attack the formation of military blocs,
immediately after they had themselves
formed the father of all such blocs in
Eastern Europe —one which they came to
Belgrade to extend to the Adriatic.
Molotov’s fortunate successor must be
glad that his chief, and not himself, under-
took the task of dealing with the Yugo-
slavs. Any inferior Russian Minister
who failed as Khrushchev appears to
have failed would now be having an un-
comfortable homecoming, especially in
view of the fact that the mission was not
only a failure with Tito, but with the
Italians, Greeks and Turks, who certainly
would have had grim cause for thought if
the Kremlin had succeeded in dragging
its Belgrade host inside its East-European
union.
Danger on Our Harbor
Twice in two days Sydney ferries got
themselves into trouble—one collided
with a Naval lighter and another ran
aground in a fog. This, of course, is a
very minor record compared with the
things that happen to Sydney trains,
trams and buses, but it brought out the
alarming fact that Sydney ferries aren’t
equipped with radio.
In the second case, late at night, two
of the crew had to swim ashore and find
a telephone in order to give the alarm.
This mightn’t matter much in clear
weather, but it could make the difference
between quick rescue and loss of life in
a harbor which is frequently enshrouded
in thick fog. A ferry, holed and sinking
in a harbor fog, could signal only with
toots from its siren. In a fog the harbor
is a chorus of toots, and, in the event of
a calamity such as befell the Greycliffe or
the Rodney, mere toots in a fog wouldn’t
mean much to ships and shore.
In an era when police-cars, taxis and
reporters are equipped with two-way
radio, it seems incredible that ferry-boats
carrying hundreds of passengers in waters
crowded with other craft and plentifully
beset with shoals and reefs must depend
on signal-flags and whistle-blasts—
neither of which are much good in fog
or the wild storms of the night—to call
help in emergency.
Does it need another harbor tragedy to
wake up the responsible bodies?
Australian Troops and Corns.
“8 Punjab” : For the sake of all that is
soldierlike, it is to be hoped that Aus-
tralian troops sent to Malaya will be
allowed to “chivvy” Commos, and will
not be held back to barrack, parade-
ground and ceremonial-guard duty as
part of a “strategic reserve.”
In the Indian Army of pre-World
War II days, the normal tour of duty of
infantry battalions worked out roughly
at four years down-country and two
years on the N.-W. Frontier. I am certain
that every Australian who, like myself,
served in Indian Infantry during that
period, will agree with me that each year
spent on the frontier, under semi-active-
service conditions (or actual active-
service conditions when, as frequently
happened, the Pathans “put up a show”),
was worth many years of down-country
service from the point of view both of
training and of morale.
Further, anyone who has served in both
armies will agree with me that, if occa-
sional semi-active-service conditions were
important for the well-being of the type
of soldier enlisted in the Indian Army,
they are ten times as important for Aus-
tralian soldiers.
I speak as a trooper of World War I. I
am certain that I speak for rankers of
World War 11, of Korea, and possibly
of World War 111. I say that the harder
the conditions put before the Australian
soldier the better will be his perform-
ance : the softer and more boring the
conditions (e.g., garrison-existence) the
more will his morale, his discipline, and
his training deteriorate. As a soldier, I
will add that I heartily sympathise with
the deterioration though, as a citizen, I
must deplore it.
"Read What You Said"
Charles Meeking on Canberra’s new
daily:
Something of the atmosphere of a daily
newspaper has invaded the hitherto cloistere
calm of the Hansard offices in Parliamen
House, Canberra. The first “daily” Hansard,
giving the complete report of the previous day s
sitting, appeared on May 25; it was the realisa-
tion of something first mooted nearly fifty y ear
The daily-newspaper atmosphere is enhanced
by the spectacle of members of Parliamen
sitting in adjoining cubicles correcting tne
reports of remarks thrown at each other across
the table in the House.
Arguments in the House, however, are n
always across the table. Once or twice recen *
Hansard reporters have watched with a nmc
apprehension the sight of a “Joshua La do „
man sitting alongside an “Evatt Laborite,
both correcting carbons of speeches in wn " h
they have indulged in vitriolic abuse ot ea
°tber. . , „ „_j
The present daily issue is a trial run, a
not yet available to subscribers. All men " .
get it, including, of course, the Ministers an
party leaders who previously got the flats (.in
complete but uncorrected proofs), an “ V\
departmental heads who also used to recei
the flats. , x „ „, prP
A disadvantage of the flats was that they w
marked “Confidential,” and could rt , n ., „ js ,
quoted from in the House. The daily
q All this is effecting a sort of minor revolution.
One effect is on late sittings. Deadly®
hour is 10.30 p.m. In practice this has bee
left a little elastic, but late speakers not oruy
stand a chance of being left out until
following issue, but also have to wait until
o Continued on next page)


still later hour if they wish to read and revise
their report.
The chief effect, however, is on the actual
reports. In more leisurely days Hansard statt
took time and pains to improve the appearance
of a speech in print. There were niceties of
style which did not alter meanings (not even
members are permitted to alter the meaning ot
what they have said, although they can make
minor revisions or corrections), and a rounding-
ofi of periods. Now, however, comparatively
few members bother to revise their reports m.
the limited time available after the delivery of a
speech, and those who do make a minimum ot
alteration.
Members are given half an hour to revise
each carbon-typed copy of a speech, which
reaches them in “ten-minute” takes. This gives
them about an hour and a half from the time
they begin talking, which is mostly adequate.
Sometimes, however, a member has spoken on
several clauses or several bills, and his revision-
time has elapsed while he was thus engaged.
In such cases secretaries are pressed into service
for revision purposes, and there haven’t been
any complaints. In fact, the Reps, applauded
a private member who asked Mr. Speaker to
convey to Mr. W. Campbell, principal Parlia-
mentary reporter, and his staff the appreciation
of members for their excellent achievement.
It hasn’t been a carefree transition. Six new
reporters have been engaged—one is on loan
from a State Parliament —and they haven t
found the going easy. Men accustomed to the
careful and reasoned arguments of the High
Court, for example, with meticulously-finished
sentences, find the spectacle of an excited
House, with more than a hundred members
apparently trying to say something at once, a
trifle overpowering. It takes some time to learn
the members’ names, and to separate the wheat
of pertinent and answered interjections from
the chaff of disregarded flippancies.
However, they have unseen helpers. The
new system includes supervisors in the Hansard
rooms downstairs, sitting with earphones listen
ing to the broadcast —or to the public-address
system on non-broadcasting days. These men,
all senior and experienced Hansard reporters,
take check-notes whenever things become hvely,
and can thus check and correct any gaps or
mistakes made by a reporter sitting in the midst
of the hurly-burly.
It is nearly midnight when the last of the
reporters and supervisors finish after a
10.30 p.m. adjournment. The last of the copy
gets away to the Government Printer and his
men, who work all night to turn out the
finished product by the following midday.
Things will be easier in the printing-office when
new equipment arrives soon, and the daily
Hansard may then be available to all who
want it.
POLITICAL POINTS
Federal Parliament will adjourn for
the Canberra winter tomorrow or Friday,
to assemble again for the Budget session
late in August.
m •
With Britain in chaos through strikes
on the railways and docks, Sydney also
faced disaster last week. But at the
last minute the brewery employees called-
off their threatened strike.
• •
Second round in the Cain-Barry fight
will take place on June 18, election-day
for half the Victorian Legislative Coun-
cil. Of the 15 “Labor” men at present in
the Council, nine are Cain men and six
support Barry. Only three of the former
and one of the latter (Coleman, Barry’s
co-leader) have to face the electors, but
Lovegrove, who defeated Barry in Carl-
ton, has been demanding that all six
Barry-ites should stand down in view
of the virtual elimination of their party
in the Assembly. McManus, secretary
of the Barry group, says that if the nine
Cain-ites will set the example his col-
leagues may consider following it.
• •
The L.C.P. and Country party have
eight members each in the Council and
the Hollway Libs. two. Of these seven
L.C.P. men will have to seek re-election,
four Country-party and both the Holl-
way Libs. As the L.C.P. is contesting
only nine seats the most it can hold in
the next Legislative Council will be 10,
so that Bolte will have to depend on
Country-party support.
• •
Just in the nick of time to save him-
self from being included in the Birthday
Honors list Calwell has proclaimed that
he “wants no honor, title or style that the
people do not confer on him.”
• ®
Ninety-three men working three shifts
a day "drove a 24ft.-diameter tunnel 402 ft.
in six days on the Snowy River works—
a world record for speed of tunnelling.
Now, if those men had started on the
Sydney Eastern Suburbs railway-tunnel
when it was first mooted trains would
be running to New Zealand by this.
• •
With two “moral rearmers” on the
“Labor” benches, it seems that the
“movement” has gained another recruit —
Interior Minister Kent Hughes, recently
back from South-East Asia. At a Can-
berra gathering Kent Hughes declared
that moral rearmament was a magnifi-
cent unifying force, helping to make
people everywhere understand some of
the tremendous changes taking place in
the world. There’s no sign of the “Doc.”
joining—perhaps he doesn’t want to
understand some of the changes taking
place nearer home.
• c
In a country of 3,000,000 square miles
where more than half the population
live in five capital cities—nearly half in
two of them—it is absurd to talk about
“another step in decentralisation” when
somebody builds a factory 20 or 30 miles
away from Martin-place or Swanston-
street.
• •
Some Government supporters have
been a bit critical of the new Federal
boundaries, but “Oppy” has declared
himself quite willing to take on the new
and less-favorable Corio seat —and, he
hopes, win it. Some of those who had
shown less spirit were reminded by
Interior Minister Kent Hughes that there
would be some not-unnatural talk of a
“gerrymander” if some of the boundaries
were referred back to the commissioners
for review. In spite of individual
grumblings on both sides of the House,
it is generally admitted that the new
divisions have been made fairly. But
the inner-metropolitan area of Sydney
still presents its headaches to a little group
of none-too-friendly “Labor” men, and
some political blood may flow before the
problem is resolved.
• •
A gelignite-blaster working for the Vic-
torian State Electricity Commission told
a coroner’s court that he and others were
not trained for the job, but had to learn
by experience. Just like M.P.s.
• 9
The difference between private enter-
prise and Government enterprise is
clearly shown in public-service pay-
rises. Despite huge losses in Operating
the services, N.S.W. transport employees
are to get big increases in pay. In private
enterprise you expect a rise if your efforts
help make the business pay; if it doesn’t
pay, and keeps on not paying, you lose
your job. Did somebody say something
about incentives?
• •
When a Victorian dairyfarmers’ asso-
ciation asked Canberra to sponsor a milk-
selling mission in South-East Asia, Com-
merce Minister McEwen said, “We want
to help stimulate markets for dairy-
products.” Well, will he jump on the
latest demand for another 4d. a pound on
the retail price of butter in Australia?
The stuff is so dear already that ordinary
families have cut down the butter-ration,
and margarine has become so popular
“Another million on the deficit? That ought to mean another rise for us!”
that, to protect the dairymen, laws have
been made to restrict the output of
margarine.
• •
Cain will be waiting for the first blue
from the Bolte.
• •
Two senior posts in the Federal Parlia-
ment will fall vacant shortly. The Clerk
of the Senate, Mr. J. E. Edwards, who
has been ill, is expected to retire almost
immediately, and the Clerk of the House
of Representatives, Mr. F. C. Green, has
announced that he will call it a day at the
end of June. Mr. R. C. H. Loof is
exj>ected to fill the vacancy at the Senate
table, and Mr. A. A. Tregear to be the
new Clerk of the Reps. Another well-
known Canberra identity, Frank Mc-
Kenna, deputy-secretary of the Prime
Minister’s department, is also on the
verge of retirement; his chief paid a
tribute to him at a meeting of the Historic
Memorials Committee, of which he has
been secretary for many years.
• •
Senator Ashley has been in the Doc.’s
Barton electorate daring Menzies to hold
an early election. The “Fixer” seems to
have got his leaders mixed. Surely it was
Cahill he was thinking of?
• •
The harsh voice of public-demand has
the poor old licensee on the corner in a
quandary. Not only is he expected to
sacrifice his new night-shows for a few
white sheets and a mattress or two, but
now they want him to make home-
deliveries. Next they’ll be wanting him
to grow orchids in his beer-garden!
• •
It’s on! The Gair gang in Queensland,
preparing its election-bait and scared stiff
by the anti-“ Labor” results in Brisbane
City and Victorian State elections, is
offering triple-time for work on statutory
holidays. But even that wouldn’t have
saved the boys in Brisbane and Victoria.
• ®
Migrant target for the coming year has
been raised to 125,000, an increase of
10,000 on the amended figure for 1954-5.
Of these about 70,000 will be “assisted”;
the balance will pay their own way. This
year’s new arrivals have been absorbed
without reducing the surplus of jobs over
job-seekers and no difficulty is anticipated
in placing their successors.
• •
Unsatisfactory features of the former
administration of the Bell Bay aluminium-
project may lead to statutory restrictions
on men in public positions permitting
their public and private interests to inter-
mingle, even if no suggestion of malprac-
tice is involved. Supply Minister Beale
was cleared by the report of the Parlia-
mentary Committee on Public Accounts,
but there are some aspects of the audit-
system which still remain to be clarified.
The report said that laxity and mis-
management had left the door open for
theft and fraud —for the manipulation of
vouchers and the illegal removal of
stores. Allegations by the former acting-
chief-engineer, H. J. Storey, of waste and
improper allocation on a vast scale were
“quite erroneous.”
• •
No one can say that the 24 defeated
candidates in the Victorian elections who
will qualify for a life-pension wasted their
time as members.
• *
Calwell on the bias of High Court
judges:
I know Mr. Justice Stark and Mr.
Justice Rich delayed standing down from
the High Court bench until Labor went
out of office to allow an anti-Labor
Government to make appointments to fill
their positions.
This is mere assertion ; it proves nothing
against the judges. But it does reveal
that Calwell believes a “Labor” Govern-
ment would have appointed men favor-
ably disposed towards its policy.
• •
One of those Egg Board members said
eggs had been bumped up to 6s. 3d. a
dozen because of the “extreme shortage,”
and the board hoped to “make farming
prospects more attractive so that men
could come back into the business.” But
how can a business do well if its products
are too dear for people to buy?
• •
“Mugga Way”: One of the most com-
plete apologies in international history
was made by a former Governor-General
of India, Mr. G. Rajagopalachari, to the
Prime Minister of Ceylon, Sir John
Kotelawala, for “rude remarks” about
the latter’s conduct at the Bandoeng con-
ference. The former G.-G., writing in a
political weekly, likened the P.M.’s be-
havior to “a jackdaw which imagined it
had the plumage of a peacock.” Sir
John commented that the remark was
made by a man in his dotage, whereupon
Rajagopalachari not merely apologised
but said he deserved a much worse casti-
gation. He hoped the Ceylon Prime
Minister would forgive and forget. Sir
John accepted the apology, but the
Indian weekly was not especially con-
trite. In reality, it suggested, Sir John
was a cat —a domesticated cat at that —
trying to roar like a tiger. “This, in
short, is the Ceylon problem.”
• •
N. S. Wales has a “Home Accommoda-
tion Bureau of the Tourist Activities and
Immigration Department,” which will
soon “publish a comprehensive hotel
and guest-house directory.” Should
make good reading for people having to
spend the night in Sydney parks.
/ • •
A by-election to fill the Bulli seat in the
N. S. Wales Assembly, vacant through the
death of “Labor” member L. B. Kelly,
will be held on July 9. Nominations
close on June 22.
• •
Adult tenants of U.S. Government
houses in New York —there are 30,000
of them—must sign a loyalty oath that
they are not “members of subversive
organisations” or be thrown out. Before
any Sydneysider shrieks with indignation
let him remember that before he can get
a job to pay the rent he must join a
union and see portion of his dues go in
A.L.P. fees.
• •
“In the ACT”: It would be a pity if the
dramatic elements of the Prime Minister’s
necessary and determined stand against the
possibility of some backbenchers taking the
business of the House out of the hands of the
Government were allowed to obscifre the under-
lying forces at work and the reasons for them.
Mr. Menzies received such substantial assur-
ances of support at the joint-party meeting that
he professes to feel that the incident is closed
and that all prospects in the political garden
are pleasing. In this he may be slightly astray.
His Government was elected nearly six years
ago, and his Cabinet of known and experienced
men, admittedly of varying calibre, was sup-
ported by a large group of ardent and compara-
tively youthful men, mostly entering politics
for the first time. The enthusiasm of the
novices has been maintained to a remarkable
degree, stimulated by national endorsement of
the Government in two more elections, but
many of them now feel that their own qualifica-
tions and enlarged knowledge entitle them to
a share of the work of government and of its
rewards. The Prime Minister has shown little
or no sympathy with this feeling, although he
has certainly been made aware of it, both in
and out of the party-room. He has preferred
the more pleasant path of retaining pld associ-
ates and thus avoiding the building-up of
antagonisms. The events of the past week
endorse this view, but he should at least seek
more work for the idle hands and brains. At
the least, an assurance to the younger men of
a major recasting of Cabinet after the next
election would seem desirable.


Society
"AND IT’S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
rT has been suggested that New Aus-
tralians should have their names trans-
lated to English on arrival here. But
wouldn’t it be embarrassing to greet Mr.
Glatz with a hearty “Good morning, Mr.
Bald Spot,” or to pass the time of day
with prim Miss Wurst, addressing her
“Miss Sausage”? A schoolteacher would
derive little encouragement from
“ Unfortunately, your wives will not be following you to
Malaya for a long time."
enrolling the Faulbaum children, were
they introduced as John and Mary Lazy-
Tree. Messrs. Lohe and Einstein may
form a partnership and we’d know them
as Blaze and A. Stone. Linke, meaning
Left Hand, and Obst, meaning Fruit,
would seem stranger than the names as
we know them. Mr. Schwarzbergen
would disappoint us if he were not a big
and powerful man when we knew him
as Mr. Black-Mountains. If the Grund
family desired to translate their names,
here’s the wide selection from which they
would choose: Ground, Earth, Soil,
Bottom, Valley, Basis, Groundwork,
Reason, Cause, Motive, Argument.—
“Ilean.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: Time: the day after Dr.
Evatt’s stormy Camberwell election-
address. Scene: a city hotel dining-room.
“Labor,” proclaimed a voice above the
sedate buzz of conversation, “has given
Victoria a stable Government!” “And
now,” said another diner, “their leader’s
a hoarse Doctor!”
♦J ❖ ❖
“W.C.”: With the accent, in this age,
on speed, it is pleasing to read of at least
one group of people who don’t sub-
scribe to quick-sales techniques. A Cana-
dian stamp-dealer who successfully bid up
to £630 for a rare stamp being auctioned
in Melbourne conducted his bidding by
mail. Come to think of it, that’s what
stamps used to be for.
♦5 ♦>
“Tos”: A park-keeper tells me that few
people now use public drinking-foun-
tains. I had noticed that one specially
monumental fountain had no mugs on its
gloomily dangling chains, but he capped
me by declaring that it had no water,
either. “People want something better
than water now,” he said, “and they’ve
got the money to pay for it, kids and all.”
*l* ❖ >Z*
“Fitz”: Poet Arthur Bayldon, now in
his 90th year, besides smiting the lyre in
his adopted country (he came from
England) was a private-secretary, swag-
man, rousebout, phrenologist, editor of a
comic monthly, schoolteacher, insurance-
agent, picture-dealer, book-canvasser,
tea-traveller, directory-compiler and lec-
turer on Buddhism and on Irish affairs.
I treasure a 55-year-old announcement
about one of his public swimming per-
formances at Armidale (N.S.W.). Under
mayoral patronage and with a brass-band
in attendance, Arthur promised “feats
never before exhibited by any other
champion.” Among the ten listed were :
“Swimming under water with hands and
feet strapped,” floating “in 3ft. of fresh
water for 15 min. without movement,”
“swimming feet first under water,”
“swimming backwards with feet and one
hand above water, the body submerged,”
and, for the finale, “a sensational dive of
35ft.” Byron and Swinburne, for all their
love of the sea, never gave a display like
that, nor, I think, will present-day
Bulletin sea-poets John Blight and Val
Vallis. i
A A
“Alban”: As Bishop Lyte said in his
famous hymn, “Change and decay in all
around I see.... ” I don’t suppose he
was thinking of drinking-habits, but a
paper just received from England reports
that the Norwich and Norfolk Licensed
Victuallers’ Association has asked the
Taverham magistrates for half-an-hour’s
extension every night, “to counteract the
effects of television.” TV has only just
conquered Norfolk, but the evening custo-
mers in the pubs are already drinking up
quickly and getting off home. N. S. Wales
Bungs, only just accorded 10-o’clock
closing, may meditate another old saying:
“What the gods give, they give too
late . .
“Bo”: Youngsters in Sydney’s Surry
Hills solved the problem of the Cracker-
night bonfire in a lane off Kippax-street,
where an ancient upholstered lounge,
with its two companion-chairs, success-
fully performed its last office after
having been liberally primed with
“karrasene,” while not far away old car-
tyres, stacked one on top of the other,
formed a funnel into which broken-up
fruit-cases were fed for effective kindling,
It was no miracle that the fences 6ft.
away didn’t ignite from the fierce blazes ;
you can’t burn galvanised-iron.
* *** ***
“Gunner’s Mate”: Basing my report
on “S. M. Herald’s,” and photograph,
those 12in. naval shells Army bods got
on to in the Sydney suburb of Drum-
moyne must be of historic interest. If
they are 12in., they must be mighty
ancient, as shells go: upwards of 30 years
old. The photo shows them to be white-
capped. Explosive shells were always
painted yellow, banded green for “T.N.T.-
filled.” Seems these two could be
“white-nose” shells, which we used for
drilling, and for testing the efficient
operating of the shell-hoists up into the
gunhouse. They were the same size and
weight (sand-filled) as the genuine article,
But even though (we were told) the life
of naval explosive (under ideal condi-
tions of humidUy
and such) was something like 90 years,
one’s gunnery mtegnty must balk at the
Army chap’s reported belief that if they d
exploded they “would have wiped-out
half Drummoyne.” Remember three
British battleships unloosing a deluge of
15-inchers on a Pacific island ; the Yank
Marines will remember what still came
from those smothered foxholes.
* ❖
4W ~ „ TT , T „ „ c , . . „
O.W.W. : One of the biggest auction-
sales ever held m Wellington (N Z.)
is hsted for some time in June, when the
contents of 95 bedrooms of t e rmer
5-star Empire Hotel are to be sold.
The Empire closed its doors in Apn.
The licence is to expire, and Wellington
is now the hardest place in N.Z. in which
to find accommodation. Since 1947 six of
the city’s biggest hotels, four private and
two licensed, have been converted into
offices
*
* * K *
“Buma”: In the dark before dawn I
mooched along streets on early shift,
The police-patrol shot by at about 30
m.p.h. Had I been Biff Sikes homeward-
bound they would hardly have had time
to notice. Crime-prevention was done
more conscientiously when I boarded at
Redfern, Sydney, 25 years ago. My
room-mate went on duty at 10 p.m. I
was enjoying a first sleep about midnight
when he came in, removed tunic and
boots and was asleep in five minutes. At
1.30 the alarm barely clicked and he was
halfway through the door, fully dressed,
I had just dozed off when he was back
again; at 3 a.m. he was out again, to be
back at 3.30. It seemed the sergeant was
a hard man who used to do the rounds
keeping rendezvous with his beat-men. I
don’t know how long my friend got
away with it. I wasn’t his room-mate
very long.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Weff”: A queer assortment of charac-
ters drift into newspaper-offices ; here are
a few I had to deal with one torrid press-
day: An unshaven individual who had
invented an unsinkable boat; another
deadbeat who wanted his fare to Parra-
matta ; a derelict with a complaint about
the bugs in a city doss-house; a New
Australian who couldn’t speak English,
and who presented a note nobody could
read; a deaf old man smelling of pinkie
whose mission it was impossible to ascer-
tain ; a red-faced lady campaigning
against aluminium cooking-utensils; a
couple of book-canvassers ; three poets
(one bearded); an old codger conducting
a one-man crusade against cigarette-
smoking; sundry people with grievances
against various Government depart-
ments; a demented female with a perse-
cution mama; a bushman who wanted
the htle of a poem about a bogged
bullock-team; two anxious mothers (one
with a daughter who wrote fairy-stones,
the other with a son who drew cowboys
and R ed Indians); an assorted stream o
story-writers; several publicity hounds,
a lad y sellm § art-union tickets ; and a
policeman with a summons. It wasnt
f° r me-
❖ *>
.. , t
Ecilat : What about *e woman I
saw belting along a with her
Utad
f 0 r*r-
WZ
* 9 ; each one a
r ‘“T® h nagt
- J P P •
* +;♦
„,. . .
Sister Ellell : Called out to the stree
to cope with a lady m a seizure, I was
assisted by a commissionaire from a near-
by .store. Regaining consciousness, the
patient had difficulty in orientating herseir
and couldn’t tell me her name. After a
while the commissionaire said, “Where
dQ live, Madam?” and with great
con y entration she replied in speech thick
slurred> cudden care lesh .”
Q uickly and wittt no disrespect, came the
nswer V « You have my sympathy, lady;
ma , g the time j’ V e woke up feeling just
... m^plfi”
♦*«
, . •_
Moorapi : Remember the enterpr -
ing gent, who years ago advertised for sale
“a book containing everything a bride
should know,” and posted a cookery-book
to those who weighed-in with the required
postal-note? A similar scheme has jus
been foiled at Manchester (Eng.). y
parting with 255. one could become a
member of the Lonely Hearts Club an
be entitled to three books—one of in-
tense interest which floodlights human
life,” another “of great appeal to men
and a third “which both sexes should
read.” For the above cash the new mem
ber was the happy recipient of a brochure
on the manufacture of lampshades,
book about the film Bond Street and a
volume of poems and essays.
AND SO TO....?
The double bed! The double bed!
Where burning Sappho loved and
sung —
Until the middle-ageing spread
Of Sappho’s boy, no longer young,
Found her remarking, and in prose,
How he unbalanced her repose.
That hapless husband, for his sins,
Proposed two platform-beds of cedar,
The tenons held by cedar pins —
Art-platforms, beautiful as lieder:
Yes, he himself would make them, at
No cost at all, and in the flat.
The cedar came; the work began;
The bedroom filled with chips and
shavings ;
The heads and feet emerged to plan,
Encouraged by four-letter ravings ;
Then, when the side-rails could be
lifted,
They saw the old bed must be
shifted.
A notice in the local rag,
And poor old double-bed was sold;
The two new beds seemed in the bag —
And then the maker caught a cold,
And even his employers said
“Go home, old chap, and go to
bed!"
Now, what more curious circumstance
For anyone to feel a dill in
Than to be struck by cruel chance
And have to make the bed you’re ill
in ?
Well, Sappho added to the mess,
Forgetting the new mattresses;
For she herself had caught the ’flu . . .
They lay on the hard floor together
And wondered if it could be true,
Things happening like this, or whether
They shared once more a fever, some
Mutual delirium.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TNTERESTED to see on the well-stocked
shelves of the Red Cross Library for
ex-servicemen at Greenslopes Repatria-
tion Hospital, Brisbane, a variety of the
work of Australian writers, and to be
told by the librarians that it is constantly
in demand. On the non-fiction shelves I
found books by Chester Wilmot, Paul
Brickhill, Neville Duke, Ernestine Hill,
and almost the entire output of Idriess
and Clune. The novels of Jon Cleary, T.
A. G. Hungerford, Eleanor Dark, Kylie
Tennant, Ruth Park, Eve Langley, H. G.
Lamond and R. G. Porteous —to mention
only a few —are there, and are widely
read. Cheering news for the would-be
Australian writer, and a comment on
the healthy condition of Australian writ-
ing today.—“F.A.M.”
*Z* ❖ ❖
“Lorna Doone”: On 5/5/’55 five
lasses from Department No. 5 of a
general-store felt that the signs and
portents were favorable for a worth-
while return on an investment in the
inter-State consultation. The result for
“A Bunch of Fives”? Five off a fiver!
♦+♦ ❖ ❖
“Cauboy”: As a sample of the sort
of thing TV might bring us, in a show
in the U.S., “This Is Your Life,” which
specialises in surprises, when Marjorie
Lawrence was appearing her brother
Edwin Lawrence walked on
to the stage and said,
“Hello, Marj”—and nobody
was more surprised than
Marjorie! She thought her
brother at that moment was
in Ballarat acting as branch-
manager for Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance. The
organisers had cabled him
asking him to make the trip,
all expenses paid, the cable
arriving when he was
attending a political meet-
ing. Qantas and the American Consul
cut the formalities and had his medical,
passport, taxation and other papers
fixed up instanter ; and within 48 hours
he was on his way.
❖ *X*
“Stoker”: A man charged in Queens-
land with being in possession of an iron-
gate suspected of having been stolen said
he took it only for devilment, but the
magistrate found him guilty and imposed
a fine. After all, it was an open-and-
shut case.
* ❖ ❖
“Dicky”: Third-class trains in Spain can
beat anything Mr. Winsor or anyone else
ever dreamed up. Nobody knows exactly
when they will run, or, for that matter,
if they will run at all. Passengers include
goats and fowls, pushed under seats or
unconcernedly standing in the passage-
way ; and, making its presence felt more
than anything, there
is usually a large,
flat, dried fish tucked
under the arm of a
plump Mumma, sit-
ting opposite. Long
journeys get friendly;
passengers exchange
food from their
lunch - packs and
wine from their
bottles, or skin-con-
tainers. One of my
difficulties was to
buy tickets. The
ticket-seller removed
his feet from his desk
and sighed when,
asking in bad French
for tickets to Hen-
daye, I disturbed
him. He replied that
no train ran to Hen-
daye that day. I
said that the time-
table showed a train.
He said the time-
table was wrong, re-
placed his feet on his
desk, drew out his
wine - bottle and
settled for siesta.
Two hours later, just
on the scheduled
train-time, I tried
again . . His
answer was the same
. . . My answer was
the same. My
French was really
getting fluent when there was a mild dis-
turbance on the platform and a train
lazed in, with its destination, Hendaye,
marked clearly on the carriages. I
shouted at the ticket-seller to come and
look. Politely and disbelievingly he
came. I danced with rage beside him. He
shrugged, agreed without shame that
there was a train to Hendaye after all,
kindly sold the required tickets,
Strangely, one of the most modern trains
in Europe is the Paris-Madrid express, a
marked contrast,
“Pip Tok”: The fortitude of the little
Dutch boy who used his arm as a stopper
for a leak in a dyke has been emulated
by two engineers on the freighter Scottish
Star at Fremantle. When the cover of a
sea-cock valve was displaced and allowed
an inrush of water into the ship, the
fourth-engineer, 22-year-old Gordon
Brough, sat on the opening, but his 10-
stone weight was not enough to keep him
there. Before he was water-jet-propelled
from his perch and knocked unconscious,
he managed to call for help. The chief-
engineer, Alan Gordon Reid, a burly
17-stoner, rushed in to sit on the breach,
“Yes, Madam, it is real wood — strigulated, dessicated, glutinated,
vitiated, created by the most modern processes in the most up-to-date
factories by the best Workmen in the World — or, as the ignorant
say, ply”
and was heavy enough to remain there
until the valve was shut off. Both got
out of it with hospital-treatment for
immersion.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jock”: Why is it that sign writers are
such poor spellers? Travelling through
the country you’ll see some awful blues
they’ve made. I came upon Ernie, our
town’s artist of the brush, up a ladder
painting the title “Veterary Surgeon,”
which he had outlined in chalk in the
manner of his craft. “Ernie,” I said,
“you’ve got it all wrong; it should be
‘veterinary.’ ” He got down with a
worried look, wiped his hands and said,
“Anyway, I’ll leave it at that; I’ve done
enough work for today.” I didn’t see
Ernie till some weeks after, when he
said, “By Jove, you were right; I went
home and looked in the dictionary—you
were right.”
* ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Butterfly-madness hits
other people as well as Les Such and his
cobbers (B. 25/5/’55). Knight Edward
Hallstrom built up a collection of New
Guinea moths and butterflies over several
years, and has just presented the 200 glass-
topped cases to the Government in
Canberra. They will be housed in the
division of entomology of the C.5.1.R.0.,
for study by research-workers, and may
eventually be transferred to what Terri-
tories Minister Paul Hasluck envisages as
“a museum of the Territory of Papua
and New Guinea.”
❖ +> ❖
“Burna”: One New Australian getting"
his £l6-or-so a week never moans about
cost-of-living or taxation. Cellophane-
wrapped, he carries a souvenir of his
native land after the U.S.S.R. liberation,
in the form of Magyar Nemzeti Bank-
notes. The lowest denomination is 10-
million pengo, then 100-million and 1000-
million. Next they came with a “B”
embossed, which meant multiply by a
billion, with the top value one-million-
billion pengo, the pengo at par being a
bit over one-shilling. I shook hands with
him. I may never meet another multi-
billionaire.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Doynest”: While millions of pounds
of Government money are being lavished
on a fortnight of Olympic Games an
appeal has been made to the public to
subscribe funds for the long-standing
needs of Melbourne University. A new
library is one; the present accommoda-
tion for the “Shop’s” priceless collection
of books and documents is in the 70-year-
old original Arts building. The library
was housed there on a temporary basis
30 years ago ; like all Melbourne’s tem-
porary housing, it has become as per-
manent as the historic tin-shed beside the
principal city post-office. Twenty-five
years ago, when I frequented the library,
you had to be there when the doors
opened to get a seat; how the students
manage now is a mystery, for there are
more than twice as many doing courses,
It’s a thousand pities the authorities
didn’t select the University as the site for
the Games; then they could have rebuilt
the place with public funds and public
approval for the expenditure.
♦> ❖ ♦>
“Hattie Hop”: The “Virtuous Woman”
referred to by “Layman” (B. 18/5/’55) is
the one described in the last chapter of
Proverbs: —
Who can find a virtuous woman?
For her price is far above rubies.
The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her
So that he shall have no need of spoil.
She will do him good and not evil all the days
of her life.
She seeketh wool and flax,
And worketh willingly with her hands
The whole chapter is one of the loveliest
poems in the Bible.
■ $
“M.K.”: These days, students, after-
dinner speakers and others need have no
worries. A new chemical compound,
methylpentyneol, banishes “butterflies”
and allows full concentration on the job.
It is rightly hailed by grateful users as
a “wonder drug.” With a couple of the
small green capsules to help them, hun-
dreds can now say goodbye to the annoy-
ing and often literally paralysing effects
of uncontrollable Apprehension. This
chemical can be used also to prepare a
nervous patient for hypnosis (which long-
known science is finding increasing use
in modern medicine), and is particularly
valuable in cases of insomnia not caused
by pain. We owe a lot to the banisher
of trembling knees, moist palms, closed-
up throats and churning stomachs.
“O’Johnno”: I had always thought
“brick” to be a term of high appraisal
of a man’s character, a “regular brick”
being a jolly good fellow; but news-
papers of 1840 through which I was
recently browsing use the word in an
absolutely opposite sense. In a report
of a theatrical performance in Hobart
one paper declared that the show was
spoilt by the misconduct of
a party of young men (gentlemen by their
station in society) who have recently formed
themselves into a company or club under
the designation of Bricks, that word being
their cry and countersign, and their object
vociferous and indecent conduct, insulting
females with every species of rudeness and
coarse vulgarity, and of inflicting pain upon
their own families.
On the evening in question, a number of
the audience, assisted by the police,
turned the offenders out and gave them
a sound thrashing. Other issues of old
Tasmanian papers record instances of
“brickism” in the towns, where young
bloods congregated and hurled insults
at passers-by or damaged houses and
private property. Like the term
“squatter,” the word “brick” seems to
require a definition relating to the date
of its use. Was the baser meaning of
“brick” in use on the mainland, or did
Tassie have sole title to it?
THE BESETTING SIN
“One social-welfare worker described the
game of housie as a ‘social evil.’ ”
—Melbourne “Argus.
Mark of the cloven hoof you’ll surely
show,
Directly with the devil you’ll be
dealing,
If from a jug of suds you get a glow,
Or any dance-hall joint you find
appealing ;
Who sucks a gasper is by black sin
stained —
Oh, ripe is he for hottest fires of
Tophet!
But hasn’t he by Beelzebub been chained
More tightly who in housie-game has
gained
His tainted profit?
You’ve heard of bad men, like as not,
who can’t
Restrain themselves from grab, old-
maid or euchre ;
Full of iniquity’s the maiden aunt
Who at the penny-poker “does” her
lucre.
It’s sad to see men who will play the
mokes
Or solo-whist —a deep abomination !
With bridge the profligate his luck
invokes . . .
But how much worse, with housie-
hunting blokes,
Their dissipation!
The grub in darkened tunnel rots the
peach ;
The grain is stricken by the unseen
weevil ;
A silent menace is the sucking leech —
But more insidious is another evil:
Think of the ruined homes, despairing
wives,
The innocent child who, unlike others,
lacks pence ;
The empty larder and the shattered lives,
From giving it a fly in housie-dives
With precious saxpence !
Reflect, l beg—and this you can’t deny —
No one could possibly get into Heaven
Who’d give an ear to call like “Kelly’s
eye!”
“Top o’ the Wazir!” or to “Legs
eleven !”
Whether a full card you are out-Jo crack,
Or single line you recklessly are
chasing,
You’re straying far from Virtue’s rocky
track ;
“Whacko! He DID take the I.O.U .!”
The only future that you have’s
jet-black ...
How can you stop from going to the
pack
With game debasing?
N.s.w.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Hereunder, F. Vine, president of the
Chamber of Manufactures —the man who
was the main drive behind the highly
successful Industrial Fair at the Exhibi-
tion Building, Melbourne; the first fair of
its kind entirely devoted to objects of in-
digenous manufacture. Pretty well every-
thing made in Australia (except boomer-
angs) was represented, and the fair showed
that pretty well everything is made in
Australia. A solid man, devoted to his
job, Vine played Aussie Rules with Mel-
bourne F.C. from 1926 to 1935, was cap-
MANUFACTURER
tain during the 1933-34 frenzy and repped
against South Australia. In moments of
relaxation these days his first preference
is fishing.
0 0
Back from Northern Ireland, with two
quarts of Irish blood added to his original
English issue, knight Charles George
Latham, M.L.C., Old Digger and veteran
Parliamentarian. The blood-addition was
per transfusion for a serious illness caught
during his look at North Irish agricul-
tural conditions. Born in England, he
started farming in Westralia, joined the
Country Party almost at its inception, and
entered the Westralian Assembly as
member for York in 1921. Eleven years
later he went to the Senate, but lost out
in the Federal election of 1943. For the
following three years he was Deputy-
Director of Commonwealth Loans in
Perth, and did so well at it that he received
the accolade in 1948. A Legislative
Council by-election sent him back to the
State Parliament in 1946. An impressive
six-footer, he has been Deputy-Director
of Recruiting in Westralia since 1950 ; his
own war-service was in the ranks of the
old 16th Battalion, A.I.F.
0 0
Rear-Admiral George Moore was the
first Australian Minister appointed to the
Philippines. Five years later, almost to
the day, at a mite over 60, he’s headed
for slippered ease. In his sea-time he
commanded British light-cruiser Daunt-
less (at War ll’s outbreak), and through
the war he had heavy-cruisers Australia
and Canberra. Relieving Moore, K. C. O.
Shann is a professional diplomat, at
present head of the Pacific and American
section of the External Affairs Depart-
ment.
0 0
Scott of the Yard:
Of a quietly scholarly manner, Sir Harold
Richard Scott passed through Sydney to lecture
in New Zealand. He’s been many things in
his 67 years—an hon. Fellow of Jesus College,
Cambridge; secretary to the Ministry of Labor;
chairman of the Commissioners for Prisons in
England and Wales; in the early stages of
War 11, secretary of the Ministry of Home
Security; and, at the end of it, permanent-
secretary of the Ministry of Aircraft Production.
None of that would seem likely to have given
him the ability to ride a horse, yet this was
necessary in his next job—before anything
further pertaining to the job was discussed,
Herbert Morrison (in 1944) asked him could he
ride a horse. Scott answered “Yes,” and so
walked from Morrison’s office as Commissioner
of Police of the Metropolis of London. The
equestrian ability is important—for all London’s
Royal occasions, and in State parades, the
police-head plays his part mounted, and mount-
ing a white, plumed cocked-hat, sword and
glittering braided uniform.
He had other responsibilities, such as
rebuilding after the war the world’s finest
police-force of the world’s greatest city. Also
brought to book John George Haigh, Neville
Heath and, among the last before Scott retired
last year, John Christie, of the Notting Hill
Gate savagery. The visitor strongly recom-
mends heavier sentences for violent crimes, and
instances, as evidence of Britain’s success with
this policy, the dropping of the rate of
indictable offences from 128,000 in 1945 to
less than the pre-war rate of 95,000 in 1950.
After New Zealand, he’ll return to talk to
Australia about Scotland Yard.
Given his brass hat (rank of comman-
der) a few months back, and recently
given command of the R.A.N. College at
Flinders, Geoffrey Gladstone lately
received the U.S. Bronze Star for mine-
sweeping round Chinnampo harbor in
1950. He owns already D.S.C., won when,
in destroyer Quickmatch, his ship was a
screening-unit of the British Eastern
Battle Fleet under Somerville which left
Trincomalee and lambasted the Jap
naval-base at Sabang, on the northern tip
of Sumatra. He added Bar to the D.S.C.
while in another destroyer, Warra-
munga, in Korea. Bom at Wagin (W.A.);
anti-submarine business his present
speciality.
• •
Presented at Prahran (Melbourne) with
a portrait of herself, which is to be hung
at the Red Cross Blood Bank she
founded, Lucy Meredith Bryce, B.Sc.,
8.5., F.R.A.C.P., hon. major A.A.M.C.
Over 3000 beneficiaries of the blood-bank
contributed towards the presentation, and
500 depositors therein were among the
audience that saw it. One of the greatest
women in her profession in the world
(thus described by Colonel Spowers, chair-
man of the Victorian division), Dr. Bryce
was born in Lindfield, on Sydney’s North
Shore line, and trained at Melbourne
University, at the Walter and Eliza Hall
Institute, and at the Lister Institute in
London. She became hon. director of
the Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service
in 1929 and founded the blood-bank 10
years later: the service then cost £750
per annum ; this year it will cost £60,000,
and more donors are wanted. When the
lady expressed a wish that the portrait
should be hung at the blood-bank, to her
surprise artist William Dargie produced
another. He had made a copy for her.
0 0
Passed on in Cheltenham (Eng.), Sir
Leslie Boyce, who became Lord Mayor
of London in succession, to Sir Denys
Lowson in 1951. First from another part
of the British Commonwealth to hold
that office, he was bom at Taree (N.S.W.),
graduated in law at the Inner Temple,
was in the A.I.F. at Gallipoli and in
France, and was wounded and invalided
back to Australia. Then he personally
recruited an infantry unit and returned
in command of it in 1917. He was chair-
man of several large steel- and carriage-
works, and, among other picturesque
things, was a Liveryman of the Worship-
ful Companies of Loriners and Carpen-
ters. He was 59.
0 0
Accounted for hereunder, George Eric
Hale, new South Australian manager of
the ’Wales. He has represented the bank
in Brisbane, Sydney, London, Perth, Mel-
bourne and Hobart; his father was man-
ager of the Union Bank in Queensland
(whence hails Hale), and George’s daugh-
ter is a bank-clerk. His son broke away
—he’s medicoing in Melbourne. G.E. has
been with the same counting-house since
he was 16, except for some riding with
the 4th Light Horse in Palestine and
Syria, emerging lance-jack. He went
BANKER
touring again (for the bank) in 1936, to
America and Canada, finishing-up this
time as accountant to the London branch.
Cricketer and tenniser of some score in
his early days, now he golfs, still with
distinction —drives from the tee right-
handed, putts left-handed.
Retiring to his gardening, Brigadier
Frank Field has gardened most success-
fully over the past eight years among the
pockets of people south of the Line in
the Pacific —as South-West Pacific rep.
for the LJ.N. Children’s Fund he has
swelled the organisation’s coffers to good
measure. Getting into U.N.R.R.A.
shortly before the war ended, when the
concern was girding itself for its vast
task of rehabilitation, he served as direc-
tor of the n.-e. China region, and later
as departmental director for China and
chief of supply. A Kentishman by birth,
educated at Southampton University
College, he’s been in the A.M.F. since
1923, and before shifting to U.N. was
Director of Mechanical and Electrical
Engineering at L.H.Q., and at the same
time was president of the Institution of
Automotive and Aeronautical Engineers
Not yet 70.
• «
Operated upon herewith, Frank Bellingham,
Sydney gynaecologist, photography addict, ice-
skater, yachtsman. A big man with energy to
match, Bellingham presides over the Federation
of Australian Amateur Cine Societies, whose
members have been winning much kudos over-
seas of recent years.
Annually, the Amateur Cine League in New
York runs a “Ten Best” competition, which
draws in films from all over the world. Every
year for the past four years Bellingham’s mem-
bers have gained one of the coveted 10 places,
and in 1953 a member won the Hiram Percy
Maxim Award for the best film of the year.
The following year another took off the London
“Daily Mail” Challenge Trophy for the year’s
best.
The F.A.A.C.S. is now to put on a complete
programme of films at Sydney University’s
Film Festival, offerings ranging from the
Coronation and trawling off Huskisson
(Bellingham’s own), to Nature in the garden
and eating-habits of Binghi, filmed 180 miles
north-west of Alice Springs. The festival
begins on Friday night (June 10), and will run
through the Saturday, Sunday and Monday.
Learned to ice-skate as early as he learned
to aim a lens, Bellingham presides over the
N.S.W. branch of the National Ice Skating
Association, and is rear-commodore of the
Cruising Yacht Club, the Sydney-Hobart racing
men headquartered at Rushcutter Bay. The
gynaecologist sailed to Hobart himself, race
FILMER
before last, navigator, appropriately enough, in
mother-ship Lauriana, a sort of surgeon of the
fleet, with four minor cases of injury he treated
by radio. Last night he was due to debate
the merits of sail as opposed to those of “stink-
wagons,” as the vehicles of the Royal Motor
Yacht Club at Rose Bay are irreverently called.
So far as is known, the sailman still fives.
• •
Australian Brigadier I. T. Murdoch has
shifted up to Singapore, Far East Land
Headquarters. There (relieving British
Brigadier M. W. Roberts) he’ll look after
(with title of General Staff Brigadier)
military planning and co-ordination in
the whole Far Eastern area.
• •
William Alfred Jolly (passed on at 73)
was the first Mayor of Greater Brisbane,
between 1925-30. When elected, he
bossed the local affairs of a district with
a greater population and revenue, public
utilities included, than the State of Tas-
mania. In 1930 he became first Lord
Mayor of Brisbane. He had six fighting
sons in War II —four in the A.1.F., at
one time spread between Moresby and
the Middle East, and two in the R.A.A.F.
Two sons can thank their stars their
father was not Mayor of Indooroopilly
or Dindigully when they were born. He
was Mayor of Windsor when William
Windsor Jolly was bom, and of Bris-
bane when the seventh son, Norman
Brisbane, arrived. The others managed
to time their advent in between mayoral-
ties. In 1937 he entered the House of
Representatives as member for Lilley,
which seat he held six years.' Trained
legally early, he shifted to accountancy,
was a one-time president of Rotary, direc-
tor of the old Q.N. Bank, and a director
of the National Bank at the end.
Commissioned to form Victoria’s new
Government, Henry Edward Bolte has
looked after the Hampden electorate’s
interests since 1947 —within 12 months he
was in Cabinet with the Water Supply
and Mines portfolios. Three years later
he was deputy-leader of the L.C.P., and
another 18 months found him party-
leader. He owns a property at Meredith
(Vic.), and in War II had a bit over three
years in uniform. He turned 47 a week
before the election which made him
Premier.
THOMAS REGINALD GROOM, new
Lord Mayor of Brisbane: Queensland
University rowing Blue, accountancy
firm senior-partner, company-director.
Clement D. Johnston, chairman of the
board of directors of the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, is due to reach Sydney on
June 15 for a three-weeks’ visit to Aus-
tralia, covering all States. The visit is part
of a tour arranged by the U.S. State
Department in its exchange-of-persons
programme for promotion of inter-
national goodwill and understanding.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, Anthony Dattilo-Rubbo, doyen
of Australian art-teachers. In 1952 he was
honored by the Italian Government with an
invitation to exhibit 14 of bis paintings at the
Mostra Oltremare (“Beyond the Sea”) Exhibi-
tion held in Naples. Born in Naples, he
studied at the Royal Academy there, started his
art-school in Sydney at the turn of the century
(still going in Pitt-street), was largely responsible
for founding the Manly (Sydney) Gallery (one
of the finest municipal collections in the
country), and is represented in all Australian
National Galleries. His portrait of John
Curtin hangs in King’s Hall, Canberra. His
only son, Sydney, is Professor of Bacteriology,
Melbourne University.
In Auckland (N.Z.), Lady Marion Davis,
wife of Sir Ernest Davis, mayor of Auckland
for six years from 1935. She worked intensely
in War 11, vice-president of the Red Cross,
Victoria League and the Navy League, became
a skilled spinner, and organised working-
groups at her home, spinning mainly protective
woollen garments for seagoing Navy personnel.
In York (W.A.), Mary Louisa Skinner,
Westralian nurse and novelist. Born in
Westralia, she spent much of her childhood in
England and Ireland, returned to Perth, and
qualified as a nurse. In War I she served with
Lady Minto’s Nursing Service in India. The
Boy in the Bush, written in collaboration with
D. H. Lawrence, was subject to much criticism
when published in 1924, but it ran into three
editions in three months. Her other books
were Letters of a V~A.D., Black Swan and
Tucker Sees India. An autobiography, only
recently completed, describes experiences ot
nurses in Westralia during the first decade of
the century, and gives personal reminiscences
of D. H. Lawrence. She was a life-member
of the Australian Fellowship of Writers.
In Hobart, at 95, Archdeacon E. J. Barnett,
who, born in Tasmania, graduated from
Melbourne University in 1887, and was head-
master of Caulfield Grammar School for eight
years. In 1900 he moved to Hong Kong,
established St. Stephen’s College there, and
became Archdeacon in 1910. In 1925 he trans-
ferred to England, retired in 1950 and returned
to Tasmania.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 62, Wilfred James
Dyment, traffic-manager in New Zealand for
Canadian National Railways. A native ot
Prince Edward Island (off Nova Scotia), he had
been in N.Z. for 19 years, and earlier had been
stationed in Montreal and the Far East watch-
ing C.N.R. interests. A racing enthusiast and
member of the Wellington R.C.
In Perth, at 86, Thomas Tighe, one of
Westralia’s leading and oldest horse-trainers.
Bom in Sydney, he crossed to Westralia about
55 years ago and went into business training
winners, among them three takers of the Perth
Cup—Earl of Seafield (1921), Mercato (1924)
and Loyalty (1943)—-as well as winners of the
Kalgoorlie and Boulder Cups.
In London, at 48, Alan Fairfax, former Aus-
tralian Test all-rounder. He played his first
Test in his first first-class season, with N.SAV.
(1928-29); that was the fifth Test in Melbourne
against Chapman’s English side, when he made
65 in a then-record Test fifth-wicket partnership
of 183 with Bradman. Fairfax also played m
four Tests in England in 1930 and in the five
against the West Indies in Australia in 1930-jl.
In the 10 Tests he made 410 runs at 51.1, and
took 21 wickets at 32 exactly. He seemed likely
to have a long Test-innings for Australia, but
instead went to England in 1931 to play id the
Lancashire League and to coach, and settled
there.


WINTER WARMTH
v\
fiwT, ni&ht ; t?£ak, , B£pcy-eyes ffca me/


ABORIGINALITIES
f'vNE of the schemes for commemorat-
ing the Queen’s visit here was the
making of a Remembrance Drive from
Sydney to Canberra, and the Queen her-
self planted the tree at each end —one in
Macquarie-place, the other by Canberra’s
National War Memorial.
I wouldn’t know much about the Sydney
end, but the southern one is a little
beauty, and flourishing.
In a city where decorative trees have
been selected from every continent to
make a color-display unsurpassed in the
Commonwealth, it was good to see the
historic honor given to an appropriate
native —a snowgum. It should grow into
a superb specimen.
Certainly, packed in tight formation,
as in the steep gullies round the 5000 ft.
level, they are a bleak vegetable. At the
upper limit of their range, as on the un-
sheltered slope of Jagungal, they are the
embodiment of tenacity; tom and twisted
and flattened by howling westerlies until
a tree 3yds. wide isn’t 3ft. high, the only
struggling leaves huddled under the
eastern side of bare, bleached, frozen
branches.
But in high, open parkland, with
elevation, space, and shelter from the
worst winds, they are beautiful trees;
those around Happy Jack would give you
an idea of what the Canberra one should
be like after about 20 years. The blossom
is white, and though rather small is won-
derfully profuse. The Queen’s tree in
Canberra is in bud now.
Billy T.
* * * *
“Motiiku”: Two years ago a coconut,
and recently what appeared to be the top
of a small cask, came ashore on our S.Q.
beach, and embedded in each was a
fibrous mass containing thousands of tiny
eggs. On the second occasion I put the
mass into a bucket of sea-water, and im-
mediately a few fish, less than a quarter
of an inch long, appeared. In a couple
of hours there were hundreds of thepi,
but as I had no way of aerating the
water they were all dead by morning.
What puzzles me is how a fish could
manage to wrap those fibres round and
round, criss-crossing in every direction,
to a thickness of half an inch, on a float-
ing board and on a coconut.
* * * *
“Noggs”: Mephitic odors sweeping
parts of south-east Queensland recently
sent people looking for dead rats in the
ceiling. Authorities couldn’t make up
their minds whether the aroma came from
the wet gidgees in the Goondiwindi area,
or from the wattles. A third theory,
strongly favored, is that they came, still
strong, and carried by southerlies, from
party politics down south.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: Australian sandstone can
be unpredictable stuff; examined in the
raw state, two pieces may look identical
as far as potential durability can be
decided, but let both be dressed into
building-stones or sculptured and the
years will see one remain solid and un-
altered, while the other will steadily
weather-away to ruin. The early build-
ings show scores of examples, but the
deterioration can be seen in structures of
much more recent date —stones in
Sydney’s Town Hall (completed in 1888)
are badly affected. One of the most
regrettable examples, however, can be
seen at the entrance of Sydney Technical
College, Ultimo. On the big stone arch
some forgotten craftsman sculptured a
possum and goanna, perfect in detail and
lifelike in pose. A great pity that such
workmanship was wasted on a poor
medium. On the rare occasions I visit
the old Tech. I’m always impelled to
inspect the arch. There is something
morbidly magnetic about seeing a work
of art gradually disintegrate.
* * *
•
“Morayda”: Despite popular miscon-
ception, Central Australia has a well-
stocked bush-larder for anyone who has
to “live off the land.” Apart from game
such as ’roos, wallabies, emus, turkeys
“Drop of ile , zur?”
(careful! —emergency only—turkeys are
protected) and innumerable smaller birds,
there are wild-oranges, bush-bananas,
bloodwood-apples and dogwood-beans.
In the insect line there are witchety-
grubs, and sugar- (or honey-pot) ants and,
as well, fish in the waterholes.
* * * *
“Jackstay”: Maybe there’s a lesson
for the statesmen of today, in this world
of threats and counter-threats, in the
defensive measures adopted by a small
crab recently encountered in the mud-
flats of‘a N.S.W. estuary. Perhaps a
couple of inches across, this crustacean
possessed but one weapon—an outsize
claw, out of all proportion to the owner’s
other “hand,” and colored a brilliant
orange-red. Lying in his hole in the
“D' you know , Dave , you'd make a Wonderful baby-sitter."
mud, the owner left his heavy armament
displayed outside, presumably with the
idea of giving would-be attackers a com-
pletely erroneous idea of the size of the
monster behind it, and causing them to
retreat in fear and trembling, lest they be
torn to pieces. Being of somewhat sterner
stuff than most denizens of mud-flats, I
approached for a closer look. The crab
thereupon fell back to his second line,
and from the depths came steady and
resounding “cracks” produced by snap-
ping a knob on the claw in and out of a
socket, again intended to impress me with
the size and strength of the defending
forces. Hadn’t the heart to carry the
attack further, and left him still con-
vinced of the effectiveness of his display
of force and the wisdom of his forebears
who devised the idea. Didn’t look back,
either —who am I to be sneered at by a
crab?
* * * *
“Swelpme”: At a spot close to the out-
let of Lake Tabouri (N.S.W.) four men
sit playing cards in the shade, just back
from the beach. Every few minutes one
of the men facing the headland shoots a
quick glance at the point, though it is so
casual that few observers would notice
it. All day, except for meal-breaks, the
game may go on uninterrupted ; but at any
second the man glancing towards the
headland may start, make an abrupt an-
nouncement and the game will break up
immediately. On the headland a man will
be seen waving a big, home-made flag.
The players rush down the beach and put
out to sea in two small boats. The look-
out’s long vigil has been rewarded —a
school of fish is in sight, and he’ll guide
the boats until the nets have reached
beyond and around the school. Organi-
sation pays in any business.
* * * *
“Geisha” (Tokyo): The educated swans
of England (B. 23 /3 / ’55) have a long
way to go to match the Japanese Yama-
gara, a species of tit. For 50 yen (Is. 3d.)
the owner opens the bird’s cage, the bird
emerges, takes in its beak a small metal-
token from the hand of the owner, and
hops about a yard to a model shrine.
Here it drops the token in a receptacle,
rings a bell, enters the shrine and emerges
with a small roll of paper, on which is
printed the fortune of the contributor of
the 50 yen. The bird brings this back,
pecks a binding off the roll before hand-
ing it over, and then returns to its cage.
Some of the birds will produce fortunes
written in Japanese or English, depending
on the nationality of the customer, but a
system of surreptitiously operated sliding-
doors inside the shrine could account for
this.
“74”: Members of the Aleuwarra
tribe, Central Australia, use the feathers
of the wedge-tailed eagle (Aritja to them)
in their rain-making ceremony. Two
birds I saw sacrificed for rain had wing-
spans of 7ft.
* * * *
“C.T.”: Whisky in the boots to cure
sore feet? “O.W.W.’s” t.-t. cobber (B.
11/5/’55) hadn’t half tested the miracu-
lous powers of the benign fluid, working
through the feet. Marooned in a Mait-
land (N.S.W.) pub during the recent
floods, a local applied himself vigorously
to the bottle with (he asserted) a view to
warding off the cold he’d be likely to
have after the homeward trudge through
a couple of feet of water. To make a pre-
cautionary cert of it, he followed the
advice of an old-timer whose acquain-
tance with the perils of floods went back
to ’93, and before setting forth solemnly
poured a double-header into each boot,
after which he sloshed into the dark, a
confident and happy man. The precaution
must have been effective: he’s positive
that next day’s attack of ’flu was due
simply to sitting all night on a roof-top
in wet clothing—and who would know
better? '
* * * *
“Jimkee”: A Santa Gertrudis cross-
bred-steer is being fattened for a weight-
guessing competition at the Brisbane
Show in August—on waste from Bris-
bane pineapple-canneries! The steer is as
well advanced at less than 18 months old
as two-year-old cattle raised on normal
pasture, say experts. At least the steaks
from him should be tasty.
* * * *
WHAT’S all this about singing lizards
(Red Page, 25/5/’55), frogmouths
going “oom-oom” in the night, and mys-
terious shrieks “half like the bark of a
dog and half like nothing on earth” heard
on the Monaro?
Down on the Murray we believe the
“oom-oom” comes from the bittern and
the shriek from the great owl, which
uses it to paralyse its prey with fright.
As for singing lizards, the only one I
ever heard belonged to “Dash-me Rags”
Smith, a Ninety-Mile Bender whose
closest friend was a sft. river go., Bolly
by name.
Dash-me’s star-turn for visitors was
when he put on his gramophone a record
entitled “Wait Till You’re as Old as
Father, sung by Billy Williams, the man
in the velveteen jacket. Edison record.”
About quarter-way through the piece
a rheumy old cattle-dog would push his
way into the hut, squat, lift his head, and
start to howl. Then Bolly would come
from wherever he was, rear, rest his fore-
feet on the dog’s shoulders, and open and
shut his mouth.
After that, Dash-me would serve us
tea and brownie, and we’d go home, and
someone would say, “I’m blanked if I
heard anything from that flamin’ lizard! ”
and there’d be a yell of “Shut up, y’
fool. The brownie’s all right, ain’t it?”
Years afterwards I went back there,
looking for Dash-me, but a house stood
where the hut had been and a Spanish
tomato-grower had replaced man, gramo-
phone, dog and lizard. Somebody told
me Dash-me was out in the Mathoura
swamps, but whether with his orchestra
or net they couldn’t say.
In fact, they eyed me suspiciously and
turned the talk on to wool.
OLD-TIMER.
DALEY’S SCHOOL
Do you remember Daley, the teacher at the
school?
An autocrat was Daley, with thirty kids to rule.
He watched the children trudging along the
tree-lined road
(With lunches and with schoolbags, they bore a
heavy load).
He set them running madly, by ringing of the
bell,
And Daley did not worry if one small scholar
fell.
“Get up! Get up!” he thundered. “You
can’t stand there and cry!
Come in and join the classes, the time is
passing by.”
He lined up all the children and shouted his
commands
And woe betide the youngster who showed him
dirty hands.
He cast his sharp eyes downwards along the
rows of boots
Just like a sergeant-major, examining recruits.
Then: “Look at all you Turners,” he yelled.
“You’re all the same —
Not one clean boot amongst you. You put
the school to shame.”
And then, up spoke Jack Turner, “Mum says
she’d be a fool
To let us waste the blacking and walk through
mud to school.”
The other children sniggered, admiring Turner’s
pluck,
And Daley stared astonished as if quite
thunder-struck;
And then his fat face reddened at flouting of
his rule,
“Well, you can bring the blacking and shine
your boots at school!”
Then into school he marched them, their eager
boots’ refrain
In timing with the rhythm tapped out by Daley’s
cane; .y
And soon began the lessons while through the
window-pane
The sunshine called the children, but beckoned
them in vain.
Do you remember Percy who often played the
wag,
Although his mother brought him, complete
with lunch and bag?
He’d wait until she left him, and then away
he’d run
And rove the bush, contented, till setting of
the sun.
But one day, Daley stated, “We’ll find that
boy today!”
With all the school, he hunted (the kids
enjoyed the play)
But none discovered Percy: with all the bush
to roam
He strolled around in freedom till hunger
. drove him home.
Then there was Carl, the bully, who frightened
all the “bubs”
By chasing them at playtime, his fists filled
full of grubs;
But Daley caught him at it and, at his desk
all day,
The grubs spread out before him, that Carl
was forced to play.
Do you recall the Smithers, who had things
in their hair?
’Twas Daley kept them moving so all should
take a share.
It wasn’t fair, he reasoned, that they should
always be
Beside the self-same children while others
should go free.
VICTORIA.
Z. V. WEBB.


A NOTABLE old character in Dubbo
(N.S.W.), years ago, always swore
by “The shades of Toro and the spices
of Japan.” He habitually drove to town
in a sulky, and, like a good horseman,
cared for his horse first, carefully arrang-
ing a rolled-down chaffbag on the back
bumper-bars of any car that happened
to be parked handy, thus allowing the
prad to eat at a comfortable height with-
out being encumbered by a stifling nose-
bag. One day, by inadvertence or inten-
tion, the owner of an up-to-the-minute
job drove off with the fodder still reposing
on the bumpers. The prad made an indig-
nant attempt to catch up with his vanish-
ing meal, got frightened at the lack of
restriction on his movements, and set sail
for home. The car laid a neat trail of
chaff along the road until the empty bag
blew off. And the horse’s owner expressed
himself violently: “By the shades of Toro
and the spices of Japan, I feel like saying
something rude to that young man!” —
“Mackville.”
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: “Mosuka” (B. 11/5/’55)
takes me to task about my state-
ments regarding the crow and the
Haven, his authority being some
bird-books; just when these were
published he doesn’t say, but they
are certainly out of date. By keeping both
crows and ravens in captivity ornitholo-
gists have now proved that there is no
brown-eyed species of either in Australia.
The young of both the crow and the
raven have brown eyes, which turn white
upon the birds becoming adult. Sex
doesn’t enter into it. There have been
many similar mistakes about birds in the
past, one being the conclusion that there
were two distinct species of pheasant-
coucal in Queensland. They turned out
to be the male and female of a single
species.
* * * *
“Stromlo”: Some once-“new” Aus-
tralians, who don’t figure in the statistics
of heavy drinkers, are being exported—
some wild camels that are wanted by
American zoos and circuses. The camels
are a pest today in Central Australia,
and their healthiness is what specially
appeals in the U.S. First shipment left
Adelaide recently, and others will follow.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: Most fine songsters have
plain plumage, but the golden-whistler is
an exception. Underparts bright-yellow,
black head and collar, white under-beak,
and olive back, he is a pleasing picture
in color-contrasts. The hen, as is almost
invariable with birds that brood their
eggs in open nests, is plainly garbed. She
is so inconspicuous beside her brilliant
mate that many observers miss her
altogether even where whistlers abound.
Though devoted husbands, the cock-birds,
with their family-cares ended, will some-
times stage a get-together apparently for
a few rounds of competitive whistling.
However, the gallant fellows reserve their
loveliest tunes to enthral their girl-friends.
Sometimes this bird produces a sound
that i§ mildly imitative of the whipbird's
startling call, which has given rise to
reports of whipbirds in regions where
they don’t exist.
* * * #
“Percy Flage”: Touching on black-
snakes in the Apple Isle (B. 18/ 5/ ’55),
during many years of roaming the Tas-
sie bush I’ve seen only three species
of snake : the tiger, the copperhead and
a small white-lipped snake. The tiger
is often known as the carpet-snake, the
copperhead as the diamond-snake. How-
ever, there are two species of tiger-snake,
the common variety (Notechis scutatus
scutatus ) and the Black Island
(No tec his scutatus niger ), which
may be the cause of the con-
fusion. The common tiger-
snake has a flattish head which
is slightly distinct from the neck,
and a rounded muzzle. The
body depresses widely from
the neck along the entire
length when agitated, and
ranges through yellowish, green
or orange to brown or black.
The most common coloration
is brownish-grey banded with
creamy-yellow. Average length
in N.S.W. is from 3ft. to 4ft.,
but in Tasmania and Victoria I
have seen 6ft. specimens. The
Black Island snake also grows
to 6ft. and is jet-black along the
back, with a grey belly. There
are cream and brown scales
along the sides. Dr. G. F.
Morgan reports that venom
from both varieties tested by the
Commonwealth Serum Labora-
tories proved to be more potent,
weight for weight, than that of
the mainland snakes. Although
the tiger is most aggressive on
the mainland, in the Speck it has to be
molested before it will show fight.
* * * *
“Fairf”: I wholeheartedly endorse the
sentiments behind L. E. A. Wright’s
satirical poem “Progress” (B. 11/5/’55),
but the onward march of the home-
builder does not “put to flight the
rather retiring bandicoot.” Having a soft
spot for the quaint little original Aussie,
I only wish it did. When our district was
pleasantly bespattered with scrub, bandi-
coots abounded. They were seldom seen,
because they had no need to leave their
natural haunts. Gradually home-builders
cleared away all the scrub ; then bandies
began to be seen at night; their scratch-
ing showed on lawns and gardens; the
queer, fussy snufflings they emit were
heard under bedroom windows. But not
for long—lack of suitable shelter in
which to scoop out nests prevented
breeding ; irate gardeners and dogs carried
out a vendetta. But the real destroyer
was the motor-car. Today it is rare to
see a bandy—dead or alive; they are
wiped out, not, alas, driven farther out.
* * * *
“Jas”: In his own way the currawong
is a bit of a wag, despite his egg-thievery
among his smaller brethren. Sometimes,
when disturbed on the ground, he will
pretend he has lost his powers of flight.
Chased, he will shuffle through grass and
“Just telling the missus I'm
Working back."
over logs at surprising speed, taking wing
only when hard-pressed. This trick has
no bearing on the big rogue’s nesting-
habits, and, lacking less anthropomorphic
explanation, one can only conclude he
enjoys the fun. Also, though the curra-
wong is certainly not a noted songster,
there is a moment when his voice
“Do you serve spirits?"
blends beautifully with Nature’s mood.
When black clouds pile up, and lightning
plays, currawongs assemble, and fling
forth a wild and splendid warning of
dirty weather.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Despite the risk of the
small-size brick used in New Zealand
being a danger in case of an earthquake,
N.Z. clings to it. Napier’s disastrous
’quake a couple of decades ago demon-
strated that the couple of inches overhang
of the bricks were insufficient to hold
a wall together. Only a small opening
caused by a shake was needed to make
a wall flop. Not so with large blocks of
stone, such as Oamaru limestone, whose
9in. or 12in. overhang of one another
held walls against even severe shocks.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: When in 1952 Lake Eyre
flooded for the first time in living memory
the S.A. branch of the Royal Geographi-
cal Society got busy. First it was photo-
graphed from the air. Then Warren
Bonython took a ground-party to the
scene as a private venture; they took a
boat along and sailed over the lake. Later,
another plane was chartered to let mem-
bers of the society view the scene. On
the scientific side, an immense amount
of data was accumulated, and a full
report of the scientific evaluations is now
being published, illustrated by maps and
photographs. Copies cannot be sold, as
the publication is receiving a Government
subsidy, but a subscription of £1 to
Royal Geographical Society, Adelaide,
will bring a copy. Great interest is being
taken in the publication, both locally and
overseas, as it is almost the only case on
record where a large body of water lay
for an appreciable time in arid country,
well away from a sea-coast, in a region
where there had been no such lake for
at least a century. The findings are
expected to settle the old argument as
to whether the presence of an immense
lake does alter local climate if the sur-
roundings are normally arid.
* * * *
“Kune”: Dryden’s dictum that “men
are but children of a larger growth” could
have been tagged on to an almost new
tractor sighted near Ilford (N.S.W.) —
cosily housed on the front-veranda of a
farmhouse. That cocky must have been
narked that he couldn’t take his new toy
to bed with him.
* * * *
“Villefair”: Reading Rachel Henning’s
Letters in a romantic frame of mind, and
knowing a little about some of the country
she rambled through around Wollongong
(N.S.W.), I found myself wondering
whether in her strolling along the bank
of American Creek she ever sat beneath
the mighty Moreton Bay fig there. A
visit to Boat Harbor, some 30-odd miles
farther south, dispelled such romancings.
Here, a tree with even greater spread
stands on the property of a retired school-
teacher. The lady recalls the exact day
her father planted the tiny seedling he
had brought back from a morning’s
shooting in the adjacent mountains. The
year was 1891. Today the tree measures
a full 15ft. in circumference and at least
six branches have a diameter of more
than 15in. Its roots have spread 150 ft
from the trunk. All that growth in 64
years The tree on American Creek was
probably not even a seedling when Rachel
Henning strolled along the bank. Which
leads me to believe that the Moreton Bay
fig must be the fastest-growing of all our
trees.
BY THE SEA
Go, paint your house with yellow,
Or paint your house with white,
It will not stop the moon-tides
From washing them at night.
Plant your ground with peonies,
Azaleas, London-pride,
It will not stop the seaweed
That rides in with the tide.
Make the children say their prayers,
Close their lids and lips,
It will not stop them slipping on
Where the sea-mist slips.
Set the old in rocking-chairs
With their memories deep.
It will not stop the green sea
That surges into sleep.
Set the lovers walking
In the moon’s green glare,
It will not stop the starfish
From clinging to their hair.
Build your house upon the rocks,
It cannot, will not last;
Over young, and old, and all
The sea is rising fast.
N.S.W.
PIXIE O'HARRIS.
MANPOWER AND MARS
IF the “threatened” Martian invasion of
the earth doesn’t materialise soon —
say, within the next 1000 years —the
invaders, when they come, may find the
place studded with notices saying:
“Standing-room Only.”
Could be —if we’re to take any notice
of expert predictions reported from time
to time in the cable-news. These point to
the time when humanity, instead of
worrying about Martian invasions, may
have to think about its own inter-
planetary migration—to find a bit of
breathing-space.
What’s envisaged is a world so over-
populated that its people—a big propor-
tion of them more than 100 years old and
still “in their prime”—will be everywhere
standing shoulder to shoulder.
Dr. King Hubbert (Texas, U.S.A.) has
told the American Geological Society in
Los Angeles: “The world’s population,
now 2500 million, is doubling every 90
years, and, barring wars, plagues and
birth-control, the earth in 1000 years or
so will be teeming with so many people
there’ll only be one yard of space to
every person.”
Four New York specialists, reporting
a survey to the American Medical
Association Congress at Miami: “Humans
have a good chance of living to be 100
if they can get through a curious invisible
barrier between the ages of 60 and 75.
The barrier is a period in which certain
chemical and physical processes of the
body begin to reverse themselves in a
kind of reverse ageing—the body begins
to grow younger in certain ways.”
The American Geriatrics (study of old
age) Society issued this information in
New York: “The day may come when
the life-expectancy should be 100 to 120
years, with people remaining in good
health. Many specialists believe that
normal body-organs are constructed to
last s]x or seven times the duration of
maturing.”
There is, of course, the fantastic
development of destructive weapons which
mankind might at any time, on the fall of
the international hat, turn upon itself.
Dr. Hubbert obviously had that in mind
when he stipulated “barring wars.” How-
ever, his reference to birth-control, at this
stage, has little significance, since at its
present rate —25 million a year—the
world’s natural increase of population
seems to be doing all right for itself.
So far as plagues are concerned, science
and medicine are constantly minimising
their dangers, at much the same rapidity
with which they #re minimising infant
mortality and lengthening the life-span.
They’re holding the Old Reaper at bay
all along the line. Particularly in his
two happiest hunting-grounds—the
cradle and the rocking-chair. In the past
50 years the world’s average child*
mortality has been reduced by about one-
third, and the average expectancy of life
increased by about 20 years.
Life-span in Australia today is 66
(males) and 71 (females), compared with
55 and 58, respectively, half a century ago.
Seventy years ago it was only 47 and 51.
In a nutshell, humanity’s physical
welfare, which really means manpower, is
rapidly gaining ground all the time.
FRANK SNOW.


fj
mb
mm
i •
mm
■ %
'- ■ '
The Nuffield
Universal Tractor
shown excavating
with a front-mounted
loader, hydraulically
operated from the
internal hydraulics.
dlh
NUFFIELD
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
The Nuffield Universal is a thoroughly
efficient, reliable and easy-to-handle tractor.
It is a Task Force in itself and, combined
with the comprehensive range of "approved-
after-test” matched implements, speeds up
your work . . . makes it easier.
DO YOU KNOW THESE MONEY-SAVING FACTS?
% Nuffield Universal Tractor (kerosene-
powered), equipped with 13.50 x 24 rear
and 6.00 x 16 front tyres, sells at only
£l,ol s'lB'-
F.0.R., F. 0.8. Capital Cities.
(Plus Sales Tax only where applicable.)
At this price your Nuffield tractor is ready to go
to work, and includes the following equipment:'
Hydraulic lift, 3-point linkage and power take-off,
belt pulley, drawbar, drawbar extension, seat
cushion, canvas tractor cover, electric starter,
electric horn, headlight, agricultural rear light,
tail light, side lights, heat gauge, hour meter, foot
plates, chaff screens and radiator shutters.
BMC?
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
&
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
NT29.32
Business, Rollery, Etc.
THE CUMBERLAND SCHEME IS ROCKING
By “JINDIVICK”
CJYDNEY’S monster planning
scheme is right in the news
again, and the chairman of the
Cumberland County Council is
making pretty heavy weather of
the hopeless task of trying to
justify his plan to the thousands
of critics—critics who are now
becoming more and more noisy
in their hostility.
Some are unfair to Councillor
Ron Luke inasmuch as the plan
isn’t his creation. It isn’t for
him to scrap it, as many people
are urging. Nor can he pay
compensation to the injured
parties—and there are thousands
of them —because the Cahill
Government has made no pro-
vision for funds from which
compensation may be paid. Ex-
parliamentarians and “Justice
Association” organisers are loud
in their demands that the chair-
man debate the plan with them.
Louder still in their demands
that he drop it. Most of these
people should know that
debating the thing won’t bring
any facts to light that are not
already well-known; also that
the chairman can’t drop it.
Attacks on the plan should be
directed toward the State Labor
Government which introduced it,
nurtured it after it had been
shaped by the planning theorists,
and then married it to the com-
munity without a dowry.
However, in one respect the
County Council must stand con-
demned for a cheap and lousy
evasion of responsibility which
is based upon the well-known
aversion of the ordinary citizen
to litigation
Being faced with thousands
of claims for compensation
totalling some £350 million, the
council has adopted the ■> plan
of informing all claimants that
it does not agree with their claims
and that, accordingly, a dispute
exists between the council and
the claimants. The effect of
such a notification is to lay the
onus of further action on the
claimant, whose next step to
pursue his rights takes him into
the Land and Valuation Court.
Councillor Luke’s planners
can safely take this step because
they have top-flight counsel to
present their side of the argu-
ment —and thousands of pounds
of the taxpayers’ money to back
them up. On the other side,
thousands of affected property-
owners are people of modest
means who are already suffering
financial disability, if not hard-
ship, as a result of the effect
of the scheme on their property,
and few indeed will be prepared
to risk further money on in-
cursions into the unknown of
the courts.
Apart from a few owners of
“green-belt” land, who are being
offered paltry sums for their
property, almost every claimant
is being given the “dispute”
treatment and must commence
proceedings in the Land and
Valuation Court within 12
months of receipt of such a
notice from the County Council.
Undoubtedly this move on the
part of Councillor Luke’s
organisation will pay-off in a
big way —unless the people in-
tensify their protests and make
the matter an issue at the next
State elections.
Already the weight of protest
has caused the council to vary
the plan in some respects. For
one thing, it has decided that
industry sited in declared resi-
dential areas may continue to
operate and may develop without
further fear of restriction.
“Green-belt” lands are being
reviewed, and in some districts
certain lands are being released.
Other difficulties are showing
through the paper-cover of the
plan. Old cottages in some areas
re-zoned as industrial are now
rated at extraordinary figures as
a result of increased values im-
posed by the Valuer-General.
Politicians are becoming uneasy
over the effect of such develop-
ments upon their electors.
One “test” case has come
before the court but proved a
“fizzer.” The council claims
a victory—the claimant received
no compensation. However, the
decision —a very lengthy one —
left so many questions unresolved
that further cases are necessary.
It only wants one of those to
go against the council and the
probability is that the entire
scheme would fall to the ground.
Should this happen, it would
be a pity in one respect, because
to a certain extent the plan
could be useful.
It falls down chiefly because
the Government introduced it
“on the cheap.” Such ambitious
projects must be planned from
a financial angle as well as from
the point of view of restrictive
land-use.
This was never the case with
the Cumberland Plan. Origin-
ally estimated to cost £l5 million,
of which the Federal Govern-
ment was to pay a third, the
State Government a third and,
the affected ratepayers a third,
the State Government overcame
the refusal of the Federal Gov-
ernment to co-operate by striking
from the plan the compensation
clauses. As a result no provision
has been made for payment of
compensation to the affected
owners, nor is the money avail-
able for the implementation of
the most contentious aspects of
“And now, unofficially, could you lend me
five bob until Friday? ”
the plan the county-roads
and the express-ways.
Construction of these roads
would have solved many of
Sydney’s traffic problems, but
it appears likely that this genera-
tion will pass away before any
move is made—and possibly the
next generation, too. In the
meantime owners of property
shown to be in the line of pro-
jected roads are in the unenviable
position of being able neither
to sell their properties nor to
obtain compensation from the
Government. But they still pay
high rates and taxes. It is upon
this rock that the plan may
eventually be wrecked.
A combination of circuni"
stances has also served to hamper
the success of another feature
of the plan—the decentralisation
of industry. Industrialists have
moved to certain outer areas —
Bankstown, Parramatta and the
districts west of that city—but
the difficulty of cross-town
passenger-travel has thrown a
burden on the workers. Sydney’s
ancient and inadequate transport
services all take the workers
right into Sydney and then out
again in order to transport them
from one part of the suburbs to
another. Cross-town transport
just doesn’t exist as a practical
proposition for work-people.
The result is hours of travelling
to cover what would be a few
miles across country.
The extreme difficulty of the
housing problems serve to pre-
vent the people from living
adjacent to their employment
unless they are among the few
who were lucky enough to guess
or had the genius to discern,
some years ago, the areas in
which industry would eventually
establish, and then build their
own homes when finance was
available even though materials
and labor were scarce.
It is now just on ten years
since the N. S. W. Labor Govern-
ment introduced the legislation
from which the plan sprang. In
the intervening decade Sydney’s
developmental problems have
increased ; the plan shows little
sign of assisting in the solution.
Its potential value is being
rapidly lost sight of beneath the
rising tide of hostility towards
its “organisers.”
Two moves could save it and
turn it to advantage. Firstly, the
Government must recognise the
fact that planning on such a scale
calls for expenditure of money
for the early implementation of
such a scheme. Secondly, the
implementation should be placed
in the hands of a small com-
mission comprising an adminis-
trative expert, an engineer, and
a trouble-shooter, the duty of
which would be to take over
from the amateurs now in com-
mand and get the plan moving.
Obviously the entire plan
could not be put in hand over-
night, but persons whose
property is adversely affected
could be compensated on the
basis of market-value of their
land at the date the plan came
into effect. Then that land
which is not to be used immedi-
ately for the purposes of the plan
could be put back into com-
mercial or industrial use by
leasing it fdr such periods as the
commission estimates must elapse
before progress of the plan
caught up with it In short, the
plan must be shifted from the
theoretical to the practical in all
respects. And above all else,
Councillor Luke’s manoeuvre
regarding “disputes” must be
scotched quickly.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO YVONNE FLORA CONDIE late of
Picnic Point.—TAKE NOTICE that
EDWARD PATRICK CONDIE has filed
a Petition No. 660 of 1955 for Divorce
from you on the grounds of desertion
without just cause for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 15th day of August 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MERVYN FINLAY &
COMPANY, Solicitors, Newlands House,
141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JOHN CAMPBELL KENNEDY late of
65 Harry Avenue Lidcombe. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife LOUISA
ELEANOR KENNEDY has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 205 of 1952 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards and if
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Bth August 1955 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. H. M. SYMONDS & BRITTEN,
Solicitors, 16 George Street, Parramatta.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missinv
ANY person knowing the whereabouts oi
GEORGE ARCHIBALD BLACK, last
heard of at Tamworth about 15th
October, 1929, is asked to communicate
with the PUBLIC SOLICITOR, 104
Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
London Aiunail
THE paradox of the election
campaign was neither its
quietness nor the apparent lack
of interest of the elector in the
ingratiating personalities mar-
shalled to woo him away from
apathy. It was the simple fact
that, while both parties promised
him peace and plenty and no
setbacks to his comfort, the
nation was overshadowed by the
worst industrial crisis in 30
years. There were strikes in the
Yorkshire coalfields, in Fleet-
street, in the bus-garages and,
on the very eve of the election,
dangerous and uncompromising
threats from the railways and
the docks.
In none of these instances did
the trouble arise from tradi-
tional causes. The issues did not
represent a struggle between
employer and the employees’
unions over pay, hours of work
or conditions. The strikes were
all unofficial. The miners
rebelled against the unions. The
newspaper staffs and their pro-
prietors were helpless lookers-on
while the electrical-maintenance
men obeyed the dictates of a
Communist - controlled union.
The bus-strike was short-lived
because the trumped-up griev-
ance made no impact upon the
men.
The two latest strikes are more
serious because they are more
damaging, and also because they
are indeterminate. In both
instances they are inter-union
quarrels. The footplate men feel
they have a case for higher pay.
If granted this would immedi-
ately inflame the larger N.U.R.
and lead to a further outburst
of wage-claims, which, in turn,
would lead to another demon-
stration over “differentials” or,
more correctly, the narrowing of
them.
The quarrel between the
dockworkers’ unions is less
oblique. It amounts to a direct
clash between the National
Amalgamated Stevedores and
Dockers and the mighty Trans-
port and General Workers’
Unions. The former, a militant
body with a poor record, per-
sists in “poaching” the latter’s
members, contrary to the Brid-
lington agreement.
Public opinion is incensed at
these recurrent exhibitions of
bad-tempered irresponsibility. A
private, often stupid, quarrel is
allowed to fester and grow. The
technique is always the same.
All the elaborate machinery
which has been built up over
the years for dealing with the
troubles is disregarded, and a
pistol is held at the nation’s
head. Neither side will give
way, and, in the end, it is left
to the painstaking diplomacy of
the Minister of Labor to influ-
ence a settlement. And that, as
the unofficial strike-committees
know so well, invariably means
a substantial capitulation.
There is a strong feeling now
that this state of affairs should
not be allowed to prevail indefi-
nitely. Neither political party
has so far dared to be tough
over inflation or industrial dis-
order. Both are serious threats
to our economic well-being.
Strikes are bad enough, but it
may well be that the fear of
strikes is an even more potent
danger. Public opinion would
certainly react firmly and sym-
pathetically to a little judicious
calling of bluff. It remains to
be seen whether the new Con-
servative Government, with its
greater effective political
strength, will see fit to adopt a
sterner approach to these
problems.
From the French
“The Lark” (Lyric Theatre,
Hammersmith) is the long-
awaited Anouilh version of the
Joan of Arc legend. It is a clear-
cut play of high, if not trans-
cendent, quality which gratifies
the intellect, stimulates the
imagination and, like any
seriously conceived work of art,
begs a second hearing.
Anouilh’s treatment is im-
pressionistic but straight-
forward. He opens with the trial
scene and “dissolves” episodi-
cally into events that have gone
before. The setting he uses is
simple, almost drab. In them-
selves, the flashbacks are con-
vincing dramatically, but the
artifices of scenery-rearrange-
ment are obtrusively ingenious
and fussy. Rather surprisingly,
he causes Joan to achieve her
ends by entirely realistic and
credible means. There is no
miraculous laying of eggs nor
any “let’s-be-chums-together”
winning round of the Dauphin.
Instead, she overpowers Beaudri-
court by flattery and the
Dauphin by sheer browbeating.
The one coup de theatre is
bold to the point of outrage.
After submitting to the Court’s
entreaties Joan goes to prison.
There she takes back her admis-
sion of guilt. We see her at the
stake and the faggots lighted.
But she is suddenly reprieved, in
time to witness the crowning of
the Dauphin. That, says
Anouilh, is how we must read
the end of her story, with “the
lark singing in the sky.” The
device does not come off, except
in so far as it causes the good
element in the church to triumph
over the evil one.
The fact that Joan is an
affrighted, broken creature when
the curtain rises imposes a
heavy burden on the actress who
is to convince us that she is a
saint and has commanded an
army. Dorothy Tutin does not
succeed in doing this; she is
an impassioned, tragic, noble
figure, but she never glows with
religious fire. Somehow Laurence
Naismith’s Cauchon, well-mean-
ing and rightly perplexed, seems
to assume the central position,
epitomising the good Church.
Donald Pleasence’s knock-
kneed, petticoat-ruled Dauphin
is poignantly symbolic. Richard
Johnson makes of Warwick a
brass-hat whose professional
breeding and cynicism have a
lining of kindliness. Michael
David exudes an unspoiled
purity of spirit as the prisoner’s
friend. And Leo McKern’s sex-
obsessed, frenetic Promoter is a
finely wrought study.
Christopher Fry’s translation
is as unassuming in impact as it
is direct and unstraining in effect.
Peter Brook’s production is no
less eloquent, especially in its
silences.
Comedy
“My Three Angels” (Lyric
Theatre, West End) is no work
of art. It is a comedy by two
Americans, Sam and Bella
Spew a c k, from Husson’s
“Cuisine des Anges.” But such
idiomatic flavor as may have
distinguished the original has
clearly been affected by changes
of climate. An uproarious style
of production, part farce and
part music-hall (but with some
imaginative touches), makes for
continuous laughter, and the
exuberant presence of Ronald
Shiner ensures that the idiom is
Cockney. Nevertheless, this
absurdity of two murderers and
an embezzler, convicts in a
French penal settlement in 1910,
who put somebody’s house in
order, even to the extent of the
judicious employment of a cap-
tive poisonous snake, is both
funny and escapist.
From Herbert Holman
The Consolidated Zinc Corporation, Limited
SATISFACTORY FINANCIAL RESULT REFLECTS
HIGHER SELLING PRICES FOR LEAD AND ZINC
The Sixth Annual General Meeting of The Consolidated Zinc Corporation
Limited will be held on June 22 at 37 Dover Street, London, W.l.
The following are extracts from
the statement by the Chairman, Mr.
John R. Govett, which has been cir-
culated with the report and accounts
for the year ended December 31, 1954.
I record with great sorrow that on
13th April, 1955, Sir Norman
Mighell, C.M.G., who for the past
five years has devoted his energies
and great capabilities to the further-
ance of our interests in Australia,
died as a result of injuries received
in a motoring accident. As Chairman
of Consolidated Zinc Pty., Ltd. and
of the Local Board of The Zinc Cor-
poration since 1950, and as a mem-
ber of the Board of this Company
since 1952, he has played a great part
in the conduct of our affairs. My col-
leagues and I are deeply conscious of
the debt the Company and its sub-
sidiaries owe him for his devoted ser-
vice to their interests.
Turning now to the results for 1954,
these show a satisfactory increase
over the previous year, and reflect the
higher prices realised from sales of
lead and zinc, the profit before taxa-
tion amounting to £4,696,142, com-
pared with £2,516,562 for 1953, an
increase of £2,179,580. This result is
arrived at after charging depreciation
of £942,673, compared with £837,471
for 1953. Taxation absorbs
£2,229,409, compared with £1,043,799
for 1953.
The net profit for 1954 amounts to
£2,383,378, compared with £1,393,022
for 1953. Provisions set aside in
previous years and now no longer
required, amounting to £141,490, have
been credited to the Consolidated
Appropriation Account. Transfers to
general reserves have been made of
£1,500,000, which compares with total
transfers in 1953 of £1,130,000, which
figure included £380,000 available as
being no longer required for taxation
on the profits of previous years.
An interim dividend of 1/3 per
share, compared with 1/- per share
for 1953, was paid on 1st January,
1955, and a final dividend of 2/6 per
share is being recommended. The final
dividend, however, is payable on the
new Ordinary shares offered to share-
holders in November, 1954, at par.
As the funds provided by the issue of
these new shares were not available in
time to contribute in any way to the
profits of 1954, the final dividend
represents a higher return on the
effective capital than is indicated by
the rate per share. The total distri-
bution for the year on the Ordinary
share capital amounts to £852,597,
compared with £540,206 for 1953.
The balance on the Consolidated
Appropriation Account carried for-
ward at 31st December, 1954, amounts
to £905,445, an increase of £61,475
over the balance at 31st December,
1953.
Capital expenditure during the year
on buildings, plant, machinery and
equipment amounted to £1,049,116
(compared with £1,470,053 for 1953),
of which £484,235 related to the plant
extensions of Sulphide Corporation
Pty., Limited at Cockle Creek, New
South Wales, and £338,165 to smelting
and other plant of Imperial Smelting
Corporation Limited in the United
Kingdom.
To make provision for the present
programme of capital and exploration
expenditure up to the end of 1956
and towards future projects and con-
tingencies, an issue was made in
December last, as mentioned above,
of 2,182,649 Ordinary shares of £1
each. These shares were offered at
par to existing shareholders in pro-
portion to their holdings and, in view
of the substantial value of the rights
offered, special steps were taken to
ensure that as many as possible of
the shareholders received the benefits
to which they were entitled.
An important step in the integration
of the Group, of which all members
have already been advised, was taken
in January, 1955, when an offer was
made to holders of Imperial Smelting
Corporation Limited 6£ per cent.
Preference shares to exchange their
shares for 4i per cent. Preference
shares in the parent company, and
this offer has been accepted by
holders of 99 per cent, of the shares.
Trade investments have been sub-
divided this year so as to show the
quoted investments separately from the
unquoted, and it will be seen that the
market value of the quoted invest-
ments is nearly £2,000,000 in excess
of their book value. The Directors
are satisfied that the value of the un-
quoted investments, which includes
our interests in The Broken Hill Asso-
ciated Smelters Pty., Ltd. and British
Titan Products Co., Ltd., is con-
siderably in excess of their book
value.
EFFECT OF STOCKPILING
IN U.S.A.
In my combined statement last year
I suggested that at the then current
level of costs a combined lead-zinc
price in the United Kingdom of £175
would prove satisfactory to our in-
terests, and it so happened that the
combined price for the past year
closely approximated this figure.
This happy coincidence and the
higher prices in the opening months
of the current year do not, I fear,
result from a balance between produc-
tion and consumption over the period,
but rather from an important decision
taken by the United States Adminis-
tration in August. Previously there
had been much agitation in the United
States for official action to stem the
high rate of imports, and various sug-
gestions were made to achieve this
objective. Increased tariffs, sliding-
scale tariffs, excise taxes, and import
quotas were all under consideration.
The Administration, however, pre-
ferred to rely on stockpiling to give
the necessary relief to the U.S. mining
industry. During the past nine months
deliveries of both lead and zinc to the
stockpile have been on a sufficient
scale to allow the stocks' of these
metals to fall to a comfortable level.
Gradually increasing consumption of
both metals has also narrowed the gap
between supply and demand, but
there is little doubt that if present
prices are maintained by any artificial
stimulus there will be a tendency for
production to increase rather more
rapidly than consumption. If, there-
fore, the prop which the stockpile has
given to the market were to be re-
moved a fall in prices could be an-
ticipated. However, purchases that
will have been made by the stockpile
in the first year will fall well short
of the target that was originally en-
visaged, and it has recently been
announced that the operations of the
stockpile will be continued for a fur-
ther period. I trust, however, that
such purchases will be so adjusted that
greater stability can be created in the
metal markets of the world.
PROMOTION OF METAL
CONSUMPTION
A matter which is to us equally
important is the promotion of con-
sumption. Our part in this cam-
paign can best be played by greater
price stability and by guaranteeing to
industry regular supplies of their raw
materials. We have to contend with
an increasing number of substitutes,
and we must, therefore, create con-
fidence amongst our customers that
their supplies will be forthcoming at
all times, and at a reasonable price
level. With this in mind, we are
giving our fullest support to the Zinc
Development Association and to the
newly formed Lead Development
Association, both of which organisa-
tions are bringing producer and con-
sumer together in close relationship,
so that all aspects of the use of our
metals can be actively considered both
from a technological and an economic
angle.
In all the major branches of our
operations, the year’s results tell of
increased outputs and improved
efficiencies. In this country, the
works of Imperial Smelting Corpora-
tion have had a very successful year,
with record outputs of zinc and sul-
phuric acid. The demand for zinc
alloy has more than fulfilled expecta-
tions, and there has been a further
expansion of trade in the pigment
field.
j
In Australia, mine outputs are the
highest yet recorded, and the expan-
sion in tonnage is coupled with further
increases in general efficiencies in
underground operations. At the
Cockle Creek works of the Sulphide
Corporation Pty., Ltd., additions
have been made to the capacity of the
sulphuric acid and superphosphate
plants to meet the rapidly growing
demand from the New South Wales
markets. Among other activities,
operations on Stradbroke Island for
the production of rutile and zircon
have built up to levels which yield
satisfactory profit, and the programme
for expansion of output is proceeding
satisfactorily. The search for oil con-
tinues, and, as mentioned under the
heading Frome-Broken Hill Pty.,
Limited, shareholders are being given
the opportunity of participating more
directly in the company’s interest in
this venture. A great deal of success-
ful effort has also been devoted to the
development, on behalf of the Com-
monwealth Government, of the
uranium deposits at Rum Jungle.
It will be seen that the year’s opera-
tions have achieved increased outputs
and improved efficiencies in all the
major branches of our activities. Con-
gratulations are due to all those whose
efforts have contributed to these
results, and, on behalf of shareholders,
I tender to the management, staffs,
and all employees at each of our
mines, smelters, works, and offices, our
thanks for their loyal service and high
efficiency in 1954. Given freedom
from any major disturbance in world
affairs, we can, I feel, look forward
to the future with confidence.
JOHN R. GOVETT.
12th May, 1955.


Have you time for
ALL your duties as
-i.'i
pROS^ t?
o
£
AT
Executor?
If the complex problems of Estate administration are
too burdensome for you, as a private executor or
trustee, why not transfer your responsibilities to
Union Trustee? The Company may be appointed
to act in your place, or jointly with you as
co-executor.
With almost 70 years of experience in the adminis-
tration and management of Estates, the Company
is well qualified to render comprehensive service in
protecting and conserving Estate assets.
Call or write for a copy of the booklet ",Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees /’
U NIO N
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1883
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Atbnry, Townsville, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton and Cliarleville
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
r T''o “augment the funds which the co.
-*• is setting aside for the replacement
of shipping tonnage,” and to help
finance the erection of new stores and
development generally, the board will
offer those on the register at July 29
next 1,000,000 new £1 shares at par, one
for three, payable 10s. September 30,
1955, and the other 10s. a year later.
When all the money is in paid capital
will be £4,000,000, on which a 10 p.c.
div., which the board expects to main-
tain, will call for £77,116 less profit than
was claimed last term.
The market lengthened its bid for the
f.-p. £1 shares from 545. 9d. a year ago
to 565. 3d. at the end of January, 1955.
The figure shot up to 645. 3d. shortly
before announcement of the new issue,
but has since dropped back to 565., the
offer being not so large as was anti-
cipated in some quarters. After exercis-
ing the rights and allowing for broker-
age, the net cost at 565. would be 475. 5d.,
and the return 4.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. So the investor who looks for,
say, 5.8 p.c. on his money counts on a
14 p.c. distribution, or other benefits,
such as a request for more share-capital
on favorable terms to help finance other
and more rapidly-expanding sections of
the organisation, or perhaps an issue of
bonus-scrip, which doesn’t look like an
early probability. Meanwhile, the
rights to the new issue might prove a
more attractive entry into what is a
sound investment, with attractive long-
term prospects.
Since the beginning of this century
the business has moved steadily from
strength to strength, and the forward-
looking management has consistently
adapted the undertaking to fundamental
changes in trading conditions. Hence
the switch in emphasis, especially over
the last decade, from shipping—once a
handsome contributor to profits but now
virtually a sideline—to merchandising
and investment, especially in the chain-
store and suburban and country retail
fields. In N. S. Wales the co. owns 15
retail stores, many of them bearing well-
known names, as well as Penneys, Ltd.,
a large and flourishing chain organisa-
tion, mostly in Queensland, which has a
paid capital of £1,787,543. Over the
next couple of years it is proposed to
spend about £600,000 on building new
stores and extending and modernising
existing ones.
Other subsidiaries are Burns Philp,
San Francisco; Burns Philp (New
Guinea); Burns Philp (New Hebrides);
and a controlling interest is held in
Burns Philp (South Seas), which operates
in the Fiji, Samoa and Tonga island
groups. All are reported to be doing
well to very well. In the Solomons,
where the co.’s post-war losses total
about £250,000 (absorbed by inner
reserves), it is not proposed to start-up
again, nor is there any inclination to
risk further investment in the Gilbert,
Ellice' and Phoenix groups, where the
co.’s leases have been resumed with little
compensation for improvements. How-
ever, throughout the islaifds the co. still
owns 35 plantations, all of which are
now good profit-earners, thanks to the
high price of copra—for many years
these properties were more of a hindrance
than a help to the overall net return.
In addition the parent’s own merchandis-
ing business makes a tidy contribution
to the pool, too.
After tossing £324,121 into the
insurance, tonnage - replacement, etc.,
reserves (now £3,989,118), allowing
£238,286 (down £65,406) for deprecia-
tion, mostly in connection with shipping,
and an unstated amount for taxation,
the cautious board wrote last term’s
net earnings £82,698 stronger at £477,116.
That also leaves out of the reckoning
undistributed profits of the subsidiaries
—in some of the offshoots the whole of
the year’s profit was retained to help
finance their own expansion:
To Re— Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£* £ £ £
1950.. 362,599 12|p.c.= 250,000 ) a 4*o om
To staff fund, £59,864.. ) 52,735 4,469,301
Unexplained addition, £111,639 4,580,940
1951.. 385,684 12ip.c. = 250,000 l 65,264 4,646,204
To staff fund, £70,420 )
Unexplained reduction, £85,380 4,560,824
1952.. 408,125 12*p.c. = 296,875 1 « o fin i bsa
To staff fund, £75,390 \ 35,860 4,596.684
Unexplained addition, £284,631.. 4,881,315
1953.. 378,152 10 p.c. = 287,486 1 gg , 047 105
To staff fund, £24,796 f 65,870 4 ’ 947, 85
To replacement re., etc., £430,231 5,377,416
1954.. 394,418 10 p.c. = 299,993 1 fiQ o 9Q = .
Staff fund, £25,096 .. | 69,329 5,446,745
Unexplained additions, £324,121 5,770,866
1955.. 477,116 10 p.c. = 300,000 1 152,276 5,923,142
To staff fund, £24,840.. )
The £477,116 of profit claimed was
15.9 p.c. on average capital compared
with 13.1, 13.1, 17.2, 19.3 and 18.1 p.c.
back to 1950. The div. was kept at
10 p.c. for reasons already made obvious.
Another feature which will catch the eye
of the investor is the £5,923,142 of
visible reserves.
Further encouragement is derived
from movements in balance-sheet
figures:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Capital .. £2,999,825 £3,000,000 £3,000,000
Reserves 4,947,185 5,446,745 5,923;142
Sundry creditors,
etc. .. ... 4,267,109 4,285,447 4,085,152
Final dividends 149,991 150,000 150,000
£12,364,110 £12,882,192 £13,158,294
Properties and
shipping . . 2,202,632 1,919,260 1,718,064
Investments* .. 6,646,735 7,326,554 7,496,553
Stocks, etc. .. 1,705,242 1,635,042 1,992,629
Book debts .. 1,607,272 1,647,333 1,738,162
Cash .. .. 202,229 864,003 212,886
£12,364,110 £12,882,192 £13,158,294
* Includes an unstated amount Govt, bonds.
The contraction of £200,295 in the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
represents money returned to island
subsidiaries for use in expanding trade.
The reduction of £201,196 in the property
and shipping item was due chiefly to
allowance for depreciation on ships. The
growth of £169,999 in investments
mainly reflects calls from subsidiaries for
more capital, while the additions to
stocks (up £357,587) and book-debts (up
£90,829) are the result of bigger trading.
In the board’s capital-projects deep-
freeze is the co.’s early post-war plans to
erect a 13-storied building, which was
to include a hotel with about 180 rooms,
on the co.’s Pitt- and Castlereagh-streets,
Sydney, property. Owing to building,
staff and other difficulties there is no
alternative but to hold this property as
an investment, the chairman says.
Metropolitan Life
'T'HE now soundly-established 59-year-
old Metropolitan writes ordinary, in-
dustrial and accident contracts in the
three eastern States. And, with the
emphasis on quality rather than quan-
tity, it continues to make steady though
moderate progress in those things which
matter most so far as regular bonuses to
policyholders and dividends to share-
holders are concerned.
Last term there was a further hearten-
ing increase in the net rate of interest
earned, which is the chief source of divi-
sible surplus, the cost ratios continued to
move in the right direction in the two
life departments, and the mortality ex-
perience was well within that allowed for.
Although the actuary’s triennial valua-
tion of the undertaking is not due until
next balance, an interim overhaul has
disclosed sufficient growth in the dis-
tributable surplus in all sections to war-
rant further increases in both bonuses to
policyholders and the dividend to share-
holders. .
New business put on the books during
1954 totalled £1,970,360 (down £28,377),
of which approximately 69 p.c.
(£1,363,464, down £33,115) was ordinary
and 31 p.c. (£606,896, up £4738) indus-
trial. Nine years ago the ratios were 39
p.c. ordinary and 61 p.c. industrial. Since
policyholders get more benefits from
ordinary than from industrial contracts,
the development is a pleasing one. How-
ever, the more expensive industrial con-
tracts still provide an avenue of saving
with worthwhile benefits that would be
otherwise denied to many.
Income in the two life departments,
and what was done with it, compares as
follows over the last five years:
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Added to Total
Dec., Income. Claims, penses.* Funds. Funds.
1950.. 289,479 112,070 42,456 134,953 1,933,847
1951.. 318,421 107,067 58,077 153,277 2,087,124
From General Dept., £lO,OOO .. 2,097,124
1952.. 354,107 142,390 65,328 146,389 2,243,513
1953.. 410,717 137,256 84,072 189,389 2,432,902
Tax refund, £5661 .. • • 1 791 9 ecfi coo
1954.. 461,613 152,899 90,654 1 223,721 2,056,523
‘lncludes divs. to shareholders, 1950, £3293; 1951,
£3461; 1952, £3884; 1953, £4282; 1964, £4756.
Industrial Department.
Ex- Added to Total
Dec., Income. Claims, penses.* Funds. Funds.
1960.. 416,684 175,096 115,510 126,028 2,096,527
1951.. 433,327 194,168 124,310 114,849 2,210,376
From General Dept., £4OOO .. .. 2,214,376
1952.. 432,774 231,132 136,784 64,858 2,279,234
1963.. 447,018 254,405 136,909 55,704 2,334,938
Tax refund, £7368 .. * * t ,1 9 07A 901
1954.. 441,983 277,502 130,496 ) * l ’ aa6 ~> d ' o,2Ji
‘ Includes divs. to shareholders, 1950, £1800; 1951,
£2000; 1952, £2462; 1953, £5750; 1954, £3OOO.
Including a non-recurring £13,029 of tax
refunds, the year’s total income in the
two branches combined was £916,598
(up £58,890) premiums turned in
£699,604 (up £24,642) and interest, rents,
etc., £203,965 (up £21,219). After paying
all legitimate claims and exes., and hand-
ing shareholders £7756 in dividends,
£265,074 was added to the life funds,
raising them to £5,008,414. In addition
there is £34,500 of other reserves, which
also belongs to policyholders, mak-
ing total funds in the two branches
£5,042,914.
Commissions and management exes,
took 22.6 p.c. (down 1.5 p.c.) of net pre-
mium income in the 0.D., and 34.8 p.c.
(down 0.5 p.c.) in the I.D. So the man-
agement kept a tight hold upon control-
lable outgoings. More encouraging was
the improvement of 6s. lid. p.c. in the
net rate of interest earned (£4 4s. 9d. p.c.)
on mean funds, plus the £lOO,OOO of share-
capital. The margin between the rate now
being earned and the 2\ p.c. assumed in
valuing O.D. policy liabilities augurs well
for maintenance of the increased bonus-
rates to policyholders. The improvement
in the rate of interest earned was due to
better returns from both public securities
and holdings in subsidiary and other
companies.
In the general or accident department,
which belongs to shareholders, the sur-
plus was £12,453 stronger at £13,585, of
which £3O was used for depreciation,
£4744 for dividends to shareholders, and
the remaining £BBll lifted reserves to
£134,621, of which £5133 is for unexpired
risks. The dividend was lifted from 12\
p.c. to 15 p.c.
The funds which became available for
investment went mainly into public securi-
ties (up £198,230) and shareholdings, etc.
(up £67,023). Together these two items
account for over 86 p.c. of total assets:
1953. p.c. 1954. p.c.
Freehold, etc. .. £203,084 4.0 £204,667 3.8
Public securities, etc. 3,324,398 65.0 3,522,628 65.2
Shareholdings, etc. 1,067,724 20.9 1,134,747 21.0
Mortgages . . . . 203,469 4.0 205,607 3.8
Loans on policies.. 179,728 3.5 192,976 3.6
Book debts .. 101,860 2.0 117,121 2.2
Gash .. .. 30,818 0.6 21,945 0.4
£5,111,081 £5,399,691
The shareholdings include scrip in two
subsidiaries —Union Investment Co. (paid
capital £185,849), in the books at £230,475,
and Metropolitan Accident, Fire and
General (paid capital £29,340), in at
£43,907.
Moulded Products (A/asia), Ltd.
THIS 24-year-old is in the forefront
of Australia’s plastic - products
industry, and it continues to give a very
good account of itself, technically and
financially. Moreover, the outlook for
the undertaking, and for the industry
generally, is one of further growth, thanks
to technical advances on the production
side and to the widening use of plastics in
both the industrial and durable-consumer-
goods fields. Where resistance to high
temperatures is essential, plastics are out.
But where strength, weather-resistance,
lightness and ease in shaping are import-
ant, the plastics industry has yet a long
way to go before it reaches maturity.
Realising that price would be an im-
portant factor in development, M.P.’s
management set to work —after the war
—to bring under one control a number
of allied interests, and to integrate their
activities by a process of specialisation in
manufacture, thus eliminating overlapping
in buying, selling and organisation. And,
to keep abreast of development on the
technical side, executives are regularly
sent abroad to investigate new trends.
The group now consists of parent and
16 manufacturing and distributing sub-
sidiaries. Products include radio-cabinets,
mouldings, plastic-covered wire and
cables, garden-hose, brushes, kitchen
accessories, light-fittings, coated fabrics,
and toys, etc., and the range is constantly
being widened. For the most part demand
has kept abreast of expanding production,
and turnover has stepped.up accordingly.
Over the last five years £524,613 of
fresh share-capital, together with £122,892
of share-premiums, has been gathered,
raising paid capital to £788,96.1 in 20,000
A 6-8 p.c. and 253,125 B 5 p.c. prefs., all
of £1 each, and 2,073,498 ords. of ss. each.
At December 31 last capital had the sup-
port and assistance of £474,502 of re-
serves, as well as £250,000 of debenture-
and £251,687 of note-money.
Last term there was a further marked
increase in turnover, to which all classes
of products contributed. After setting
aside a liberal £143,866 (up £54,035) for
depreciation and £101,756 (up £20,546)
for taxation, the careful board figured
net earnings £2154 better at £156,816:
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
f Dividends —>
Pref. Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 14 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1960.. 70,916 1600 6,145 30,440 32,731 160,615
Share premiums, £55,416 .. • • 216,031
Share-issue exes., £8172 .. .. 207,859
1951.. 95,748 1600 10,548 51,985 31,615 239,474
Share premiums, etc., £31,113 .. 270,587
Sale fixed assets, £B6O 271,447
Unexplained reduction, £llOB.. .. 270,339
1952. .115,090 1600 12,656 69,251 31,533 301,922
Share premiums, £36,363 .. .. 338,285
Sale fixed assets, £544 .. .. .. 338,829
Note issue exes., £7147.. .. •• 331,682
1953. .154,662 1600 12,656 7 0,825 69,581 401,263
Profit sale fixed assets, £2148 .. 403,411
1954. .156,816 1600 12,656 71,469 71,091 474,502
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
Pref. divs. called for £14,256, and the
balance of the year’s profit was equal to
27.9 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
27.7, 20.5, 22.5, 29.1 and 24.9 p.c. back
to 1949. The div. was kept at 14 p.c., and
has been since 1947. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined) the
£156,816 of profit was equal to 12.4 p.c.,
whereas the £774,812 of pref., debenture-
and note-moneys was costing on the aver-
age only 5.12 p.c., and is therefore earn-
ing a lot more than its keep.
Continued growth is the feature of
balance-sheet figures:
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. J 954.
Pref £273,125 £273,125 £273,125
Ord 494,646 509,646 515,836
Reserves .. .. 301,922 401,263 474,502
Debentures .. 250,000 250,000 250,000
Unsecured notes .. 251,687 251,687
Creditors, etc. .. 773,356 596,941 763,684
Tax provision .. 140,966 166,833 789,804
Final divs. .. 83,507 85,081 48,002
£2,317,522 £2,534,576 £2,766,640
Freeholds, etc. .. 239,559 286,407 320,894
Plant, etc. .. 534,631 687,738 739,240
Stocks . . • • 952,687 986,810 1,102,964
Debtors .. •• 585.158 567,504 597,819
Cash, shares, etc... 6,487 6,117
£2,317,522 £2,534,576 £2,766,640
Further substantial additions to freeholds


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages to be gained
by placing your Insurance in the care
of an experienced Firm of Insurance
Brokers and Supervisors.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445.
(up £34,487) and plant (up
£51,502) are to be made during
the current term. Extensions to
the Mentone (Vic.) to
house Nylex Coatings Pty. and
Flexible Plastics Pty., two of
the subsidiaries, are expected
to be completed during the last
quarter of 1955, and since the
books were ruled off, freehold
premises have been bought at
Mascot (N.S.W.) and Brunswick
(Vic.) to provide additional
storage- and dispatch-facilities.
To meet the year’s outlay on
fixed assets and carry more
stocks (up £116,154) and book-
debts (up £30,315), the amount
coming to sundry creditors was
increased by only £116,743.
As for the current term the
chairman says “I should be again
reporting favorably to you next
year.” The market, anticipating
a new share-issue on favorable
terms, prices the f.-p. ss. ords. at
14s. to give an immediate return
of only 5 p.c. on a 14 p.c. div.
basis. The 5 p.c. B prefs. at
16s. 6d. yield 6.1 p.c. Net tan-
gible cover is £4 18s. sd. B shares
and 9s. 7d. ords. The well-
protected A prefs. seldom appear
on ’Change.
Rough Range No. 1A
L. Owen comments:
The announcement b’y Wapet’s
manager, J. W. Thomas, on May 27,
that the Rough Range offset No. 1a
well had struck the oil-lense —perfor-
ated 30ft. away by Rough Range
No. 1 in 1953 —could hardly have
come as a surprise to anyone con-
versant with the oil game; and Mr.
Thomas’s statement that the strike
merely reaffirmed the result from the
“discovery” well was candid and
justified.
At 30ft. from a proved impregna-
tion, the chances of not striking some
crude petroleum were remote,
although, as pointed out by me
(B. 18 /5 / ’55), an incorrect orientation
of the offset might have caused it to
miss what is, admittedly, a restricted
deposit. In this connection, it may
be noted that well No. 1a was placed
east of well No. 1, the direction being
a completely novel one in the testing
of the Rough Range structure.
On the first formation-test, from
3603 ft. to 3610 ft., the well was kept
open for four hours, and 240 barrels
of crude oil was produced, but, as
Mr. Thomas pointed out, this repre-
sented initial flush-production, which
could not be sustained over a more
lengthy trial. He also said that the
increased rate over that of well No. 1
(500 barrels in 25 hours) could be
ascribed to better mechanical condi-
tions in the new well.
In view of the foregoing factual and
YOUNGHUSBAND LTD.
SPEAKING at the 66th Annual Meeting of Shareholders, held
on the 31st May at the Company’s office, King Street, Melbourne,
Sir Clive McPherson, Chairman of Directors, said: Although
there were anxious periods during the past year, we, in southern
Australia, have once again experienced a favorable season due
to the late spring and summer rains over the Riverina and Vic-
toria. Stock are generally in good condition, and normal rains
should ensure winter feed.
The Present Trend
FLOODS: The devastating floods
in Northern Australia and in New
South Wales are probably the worst
in our history. It serves to bring
home to us that we have still lots to
learn about Australia —after all, we
have only been here about 180 years,
which is but the twinkling of an
eye in the life of nations.
STOCK: Owing to increased
pasture improvement, supported by
more subdivision, water and fodder
conservation, together with pest con-
trol, our carrying capacity has in-
creased considerably during recent
years. We are now carrying a
record number of sheep in Australia,
the total revised number at the last
census taken to March, 1954, being
127 million. Cattle numbers at
the last census taken to March,
1954, number 15.6 million, as com-
pared with 15.25 million the previous
year.
MEAT: The fifteen-year Meat
Agreement between Australia and
the United Kingdom was signed in
October, 1951. Unless the agree-
ment is terminated by mutual con-
sent, it will run until September,
1967.
Prices were to be reviewed by the
United Kingdom Government
periodically in order that minimum
prices might be determined from
time to time, having regard to costs
of production and world prices.
For the first two seasons of the
agreement, trade was conducted by
the British Ministry of Food and the
Australian Meat Board, but, com-
mencing Ist July, 1954. it has re-
verted to private firms of both
countries. The agreement provided
that, in this latter event, floor prices
would be guaranteed by the British
Government.
The present level of beef prices
in the United Kingdom indicates
that if this continues during the
realisation of this season’s Austra-
lian beef exports, substantial de-
ficiency payments would be due to
be paid to Australia by the United
Kingdom.
It has just been announced by the
Commonwealth Government that a
ljd. lb. bounty to exporters will be
paid on all chilled and frozen beef
delivered into cold stores and later
exported to Britain between Ist
May and 31st July this year.
WHEAT: Returns to the Austra-
lian Wheat Board for the 1954-55
Season to date total 152.2 million
bushels, as against 183.2 million for
1953-54. Whilst the crop is not as
good as the previous year, it must
be considered satisfactory in view
of the doubtful start to the season.
WOOL: During the year, the
Company sold 112,798 bales, as
against 134,318 bales last year. Our
the current season show T
a small increase, but sales are lower,
because 4,380 bales were carried for-
ward at 31st March last, as against
19,035 the previous year. Our carry
forward this year is 12,937 bales.
The average price per pound for
greasy wool in Australia for the first
nine months’ trading fell from
82.94 d. to 72.85 d. A reasonable de-
gree of stability has been apparent,
and, at the level, inquiry has been
widely based and of sufficient
volume to cover this year’s produc-
tion. A noticeable trend in favor of
the broader qualities characterised
later sales, and these types sold to
advantage when compared with finer
wools.
Latest export figures available
confirm the United Kingdom’s posi-
tion as our largest and most regular
individual buyer. The Continental
section operated consistently
throughout the season, and Japan
acquired more wool for approxi-
mately the same amount of money
as last year. The value of wool
exported to the U.S.S.R. during the
first eight months fell from nearly
£20,000,000 last year to £153,000
this year the largest variation
shown by any country. American
inquiry and quantity taken were
very similar to the previous season,
amounting to approximately
37,164,000 lbs., valued at £15,254,000.
GENERAL, CONDITIONS: There
is no substitute for work, but the
instances in history are legion where
the search for the easy way has
brought disaster.
I suggest to those who advocate
it that, to pursue a policy of less
work and more pay, will eventually
lead to disaster, even in a country
like Australia, which is generally so
favorably situated. The confidence
which is being shown by those in-
vesting large sums of money in
Australia behoves us to exert our
best efforts to justify such confi-
dence, for once lost it will not be
easily regained. Possibly, no
country in the world has greater
potentialities for prosperity than this
country, but that does not mean we
can play loosely with our heritage
and still expect the same results as
those countries who, by extra effort,
are reducing their costs of produc-
tion.
Such expressions as these are, I
believe, fundamentally sound
proven throughout history. Let the
community beware of our present
trend, for most assuredly there will
be a rude awakening if it continues.
The price of wool is the main
foundation in our present pros-
perity. Let us not base our policy
on the outlook that it will continue
as at present indefinitely.
DEPRECIATION OP CURRENCY:
Some people are of the opinion that
it will be necessary to depreciate
our currency in view of the present
inflationary trend. Whilst there
may be something to say for their
point of view, I sincerely trust it
will not be resorted to, for it would
certainly be another retreat in our
efforts to stem this menace.
In the trend of world affairs, it
appears that, in all countries out-
side Russia and her associates, of
which we cannot speak with any
accuracy as to their economy, the
general policy is to develop or main-
tain a sound buoyant economy, with
which I would say we all thoroughly
agree. It is, of course, a difficult
problem for Governments to go so
far and no further in their policy
of a buoyant economy, as the eco-
nomy of nations cannot be adjusted
with such precision that inflation
shall not develop to an unsound
degree having regard to all the com-
plexities that call for consideration.
Here, it appears, is our great prob-
lem of the future in Australia, more
particularly having regard to the
record run of good seasons we have
experienced in the immediate past,
combined with the price of wool
particularly.
Good seasons and good prices for
rural production have certainly in-
jected Australia into the inflationary
spiral, and one day the present level
of costs will be the major factor
that those in authority will be called
upon to deal with. Let us hope
that they will be able to solve this
problem, for it wijl be no mean
undertaking. One helpful item in
this connection would be a substan-
tial reduction in taxation. With
the marginal increases recently
granted, long service leave and other
rises in costs, we can look forward
to increased expenditure in the
coming year.
The total Australian Wages Bill
for the year ended 30/6/1954 is
about £2,000 million. The recent
marginal increase has been esti-
mated to cost Australia somewhere
between £l5O and £2OO million per
annum, which, together with other
cost increases, must call. for a whole-
hearted effort to work if we are to
successfully carry these imposts.
STAFF: Our Staff works and we
are pleased to show some recog-
nition of it in our annual bonus.
The efficient and friendly service
given to our constituents is an im-
portant factor in the Company’s
increasing business, and I have
pleasure in expressing the Directors’
appreciation of their good work.
definite statements, the jump in price
of Ampol Exploration shares from
18s. 9d. to 325. on May 27 can be
described only as astounding with
reference to true oil-values.
The forecast that the offset will be
tested for several days, following on
setting of the 7in. casing, is welcome
as a careful noting of production
characteristics, and will allow of the
mathematical determination, with a
fair degree of approximation, of the
life of the well —that is, of the time
which will elapse before production
becomes uneconomic—and of the
total production to be expected during
the life of the well. The extended
test should also provide some data
with reference to the permeability
of the Birdrong sandstone, or of the
sandstone within the oil-impregnated
zone, which may not be the same
thing. This will carry only an
academic interest, as drilling has dis-
proved the likelihood of the existence
of any commercial “pool” at this
horizon within the Rough Range or
Cape Range structures.
An interesting feature of the offset-
well is that the oil-impregnated lense
was struck 2ft. higher than in the
first well. A rise of 2ft. in the
short distance of 30ft. is quite con-
siderable under the conditions known
to exist at this horizon, and may
indicate that the offset-well was drilled
nearer to the core of the impregna-
tion than No. 1 well. It also has
other important implications. So
has the reported loss of returns from
below 3610 ft., which very strongly
suggests entry into a fault-zone,
thus further confirming my hypothesis
that the Rough Range oil-impregna-
tion is part of a fossil seepage.
Those on Sungei Bidor Tin’s
register at June 21 are to
receive a two-for-one gift-scrip
issue. Paid capital will be thus
lifted to £360,000 in f.-p. 10s.
shares, which are to be split into
ss. units. The gift (£240,000) is
to be made from a reserve of
£241,000 created by writing-up
the book-value of the dredge by
that amount, and will be free
of Australian and Malayan in-
come tax —it might also
mean big savings to shareholders
in taxation when the co. begins
to return its share-capital. For
the year to June 30, 1954, the co.
netted £140,234, and paid divi-
dends totalling £120,000, equal
to 33.3 p.c. on capital as it will
stand after the issue of bonus-
scrip. A similar amount has been
paid for the current term. Fol-
lowing announcement of the
gift-issue, the price of the f.-p.
10s. shares rose from 465. to 50s.
At the higher figure the net cost
per ss. unit would be Bs. sd.
* * * »
Development work on the
northern end of the 1060 ft. level
at Hill 50, Mt. Magnet (W.A.),
has shown that the June, 1954,
estimate of 400,000 tons, averag-
ing 15dwt. below the 820 ft. level,
can now be increased by
150,000 tons, averaging 9dwt.,
thus making a total of 550,000
tons, averaging 13dwt. The
work has also shown that what
earlier diamond-drilling had sug-
gested might be a new lode in
the jasperite beds paralleling
the main lode is actually a bulge
resulting from localised faulting
of the main lode. To test the
downward continuation of ore
at the northern end of the 1060 ft.
level, an inclined hole is now
being drilled down the pitch to
the 1300 ft. horizon.
* * * *
Too much importance need
not be attached to Uranium De-
velopment and Prospecting's
sparkling but not very detailed
announcement about its South
Alligator River area. It is
claimed that surface indications
have assayed up to 20 p.c.
uranium oxide, and that a lode
formation 3ft. wide at shallow
depth “put the geiger-counter
off scale.” In the absence of
more definite information, it
would be reasonable to assume
that the extraordinarily-high
assay was obtained from hand-
picked samples. And if enough
work had been done to estab-
lish the width of the lode forma-
tion as 3ft., and the depth is
shallow, surely a properly-cut
sample could have been taken
and assayed without dragging
the old geiger into the picture
at all.
• * * *
“Moorapi”: Just sold to a
syndicate for £lO,OOO, the
Granites (N.T.) is one of Aus-
tralia’s most historic mines. First
gold discovery there was in 1900
by English geologist Allan
Davidson. But early operations
were hampered by hostile abos.,
who attacked the miners with
spears, and by scarcity of drink-
ing-water. Production reached
its peak 20 years ago, when a
fortnight’s yield realised £5OOO
under the management of C. H.
Chapman. That boost started
a minor gold-rush, and a Hurry
on Melbourne and Adelaide
stock-exchanges. To date, how-
ever, the field has produced little
more than shattered hopes and
substantial losses for many
speculators.
The BRITISH PETROLEUM Company
RECORD SALES IN 1954
LORD STRATHALMOND’S STATEMENT
The FORTY-SIXTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of The British
Petroleum Company Limited will be held on June 9 in London,
England.
The following is an extract from the circulated statement by the
Chairman, the RT. HON. LORD STRATH ALMOND, C.8.E., LL.D.:
In accordance with the resolutions
approved at the Extraordinary
General Meeting of December 16,
1954, this is your company’s first
annual report and accounts to appear
under its new name, The British
Petroleum Company Limited.
The consolidated trading profit
and other income for 1954 before
providing for depreciation was
£75,348,941 compared with
£63,883,828 for 1953. From this
figure provision has been made of
£30,406,091 for depreciation, the
corresponding figure for 1953 being
£20,056,243.
After providing for debenture
interest and £19,592,977 for taxation
on profits, the amount available for
reserves and dividends is £23,962,764
compared with £24,382,850 for 1953.
Your directors have placed
£5,550,000 to general reserve, and
have recommended a final dividend
on the Ordinary Stock of 14 per cent.,
making a total for the year of 15 per
cent, on the capital as increased by
the capitalisation last December of
part of the general reserve.
Total capital expenditure during
1954 was approximately £55,000,000,
including the following main items:
Refineries, £32,500,000; Tankers,
£9,000,000; Oil Exploration Interests,
£4,500,000; Marketing Interests,
£8,000,000.
PRODUCTION.
Crude oil production in Kuwait,
Iraq, and Qatar was again increased
in 1954, when our offtake from those
sources totalled some 36,000,000 tons,
compared with 32,000,000 in 1953.
As from October 29, when the agree-
ment between Iran and the Con-
sortium companies took effect, to
the end of 1954 our liftings from
Iran were 440,000 tons, about one-
third in crude oil and the balance
in refined products. Our current
liftings from Iran are at the rate of
5,000,000 tons per annum, including
2,000,000 tons of crude oil.
In the United Kingdom our crude
oil production was 59,000 tons com-
pared with 54,600 tons in 1953.
Exploration operations were in-
creased during the year in the various
overseas territories in which we have
interests.
In Australia plans for our asso-
ciate company to begin test drilling
in the Gippsland district of Victoria
are well advanced.
REFINING.
Our total refinery throughput in
1954, at 24,000,000 tons, was
4,000,000 tons greater than in 1953.
Principal contributors to this increase
were the new Aden refinery, which
came into operation in July, 1954,
and the Kent and Hamburg refineries.
On February 1 last our new Kwinana
refinery in Western Australia was
commissioned; that addition, together
with the development of our other
refining installations and interests,
should achieve the figure of 30,000,000
tons which I mentioned last year as
our expected total refining capacity
by the end of this year.
In Great Britain, throughput in
1954 of our four refineries totalled
(0,563,000 tons, against 9,327,000 tons
in 1953.
In referring to the refinery opera-
tions overseas, the statement
continued: —
In Australia, at Laverton (Mel-
bourne), refinery throughput was
164,000 tons, against 165,000 in
1953. Such good progress was made
during 1954 with the construction of
the new 3,000,000 tons capacity
refinery at Kwinana (Western Aus-
tralia), that it came into operation on
February 1, 1955, several months
ahead of schedule, a most praise-
worthy achievement by all concerned.
The British Tanker Company’s
fleet now consists of 148 ships total-
ling 2,063,000 deadweight tons, as
against 142 ships of 1,917,000 dead-
weight tons at this time last year.
DISTRIBUTION AND SALES.
World demand for petroleum pro-
ducts, excluding Russia and her
satellites, increased by about 5 per
cent, in 1954, following the same
trend as in the previous two years.
This world figure would have been
greater but for the slight business
recession in the United States, where
the increase was limited to 2 per cent.
In the eastern hemisphere, wherein
lies the bulk of your company’s
interests, the increase in oil consump-
tion in a year of generally high
business activity was 11 per cent,
above the 1953 level, compared with
increases of about 8 per cent, in each
of the two preceding years. This
gain in eastern hemisphere trade,
representing some 18 million tons,
was matched by increased output of
Middle East crude oil —particularly
in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.
The growth in refinery capacity in
the eastern hemisphere last year of
24 million tons was more than ade-
quate to cover the increased demand.
About half of this increased capacity,
including our new refinery at Aden,
was situated east of Suez. With the
commissioning of Kwinana refinery
in Western Australia we have now
reached the position where the out-
put of our new refineries east of
Suez, together with our share of
products from Iran, has eliminated
the long back-haul from European
refineries that was such an abnormal
feature of our operations over the
previous two years.
The group’s sales of crude oil and
refined products in 1954 were at a
record level of 41 million tons, about
one million tons greater than the
previous peak figure achieved in 1950,
the last year in which we were fully
operating in Iran. Sales in 1954
represented an increase of nearly four
million tons, or 10i per cent, over
1953.
In Australia and New Zealand our
supply arrangements are now easing
with the coming into commission of
the additional refining capacity east
of Suez mentioned above. Consider-
able further progress has been made
in Australia with improving and
expanding the marketing facilities of
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries
Limited and sales by that company
during 1954 have again shown a most
satisfactory increase.
I referred last year to those dis-
quieting aspects of the price control
system both in Australia and New
Zealand which failed to reflect the
increasing incidence on the distributor
of the higher internal costs of goods
and services. In Australia there has
since been an improvement in this
respect and in the states of Western
Australia, Victoria and Tasmania the
system has been abandoned. The
problem, however, still remains acute
in New Zealand, where the margin
allowed for motor spirit distribution
is in no way compatible with the
industry’s investment in the market-
ing services or with the increased
expenses arising both from higher
wage awards and the rising cost of
materials. It is to be hoped that
there will be a satisfactory outcome
from the independent investigations
which the New Zealand Government
has now instituted.
Our sales of aviation spirit have
continued to expand, and the BP
Aviation Service has again been
entrusted with the task of providing
in whole or part for the fuelling of
many of the major international air-
lines, the armed services, and other
flight operations in the countries
covered by its growing network.
The BP International Oil Bunker-
ing Service continues to provide an
important part of world bunker
supplies.
Sales of our branded lubricants
show a very satisfactory increase com-
pared with 1953, both in this
country and overseas, and our largely
increased production is all being
disposed of through our own
marketing outlets.
In the United Kingdom the con-
tinued upward trend in industrial
activity was reflected in a strong
demand for petroleum products in
1954. Sales of fuel oil showed a
marked expansion, and we are being
called upon to contribute in an
increasing degree to the country’s
industrial energy requirements.
RESEARCH.
The work of our research and
development establishments continues
to maintain and enhance the com-
pany’s reputation for products of the
highest quality and performance as
well as to keep the BP group abreast
of its competitors in the continually
evolving techniques of finding, pro-
ducing, transporting, and refining
crude oils.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Five-hundred guests attended the Town
Hall dinner given by the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. Frank
Selleck) to inaugurate the official launch-
ing of the Prince Henry’s Hospital
Building Fund. The Governor, who was
accompanied by Lady Brooks, officially
launched the appeal. Floral decorations
included poinsettias, potted cyclamen
and autumn-tinted chrysanthemums.
The full-skirted gown chosen by Lady
Brooks was of blush-pink satin, her stole
white Arctic-fox. Mrs. Selleck’s brocades
were powder-blue. Mrs. W. K. Burnside
(president of the Prince Henry’s
auxiliaries) wore a bouffant gown of
emerald-green French-organza and a
white Arctic-fox cape-stole.
In the official party were new Premier
Henry Bolte and Mrs. Bolte, appeal-
chairman Maurice Nathan and his wife,
Mr. and Mrs. E. B. Coles, Mr. P. L.
Coleman and Mrs. Coleman, Colonel and
Mrs. R. W. Spraggett, Dr. and Mrs. J. H.
Lindell, Consul for China T. W. Liu and
Italian Consul Marchesa G. Serafini, and
the matron of Prince Henry’s (Miss A. H.
Morgan).
Matching her gown of shocking-pink
tulle, Mrs. James McGauran wore an
ostrich-feather stole. Mrs. Arnold Isaac-
son’s short dinner-frock was of grey-and-
black-patterned brocade; her stole was
of scarlet satin. Mrs. Margaret Saker’s
black dinner-gown was worn with a
black-velvet stole edged with summer-
ermine. Rena Pope’s Hartnell pink-
satin frock featured brilliant button-
trimming.
☆ ☆ ☆
A cold, wet evening for the premiere
of “Manon” at Her Majesty’s, so that
warm rather than glamorous frocks were
the order of the night. But there was
plenty of glamor in the dressing of
Malatrasi, who sang the title-role. In one
dress she achieved a Dresden-china effect
in a pannier-gown of pale-pink satin over
a hoop of pale-blue satin. In the
Gambling House scene a magnificent red-
velvet gown trimmed with wide frills of
silver-embroidered lace was worn over a
skirt of cloth-of-silver. Another gown
was of silver lame and white lace
scattered with silver sequins.
In the audience Mrs. Peter Kiernan
provided a touch of color with her
woollen theatre-coat in watermelon-pink.
Mrs. Ronald Marriott allied a wide skirt
of red flannel trimmed with black motifs
and a black high-necked jersey. Eliza-
betta Barbarto added to her mink-
trimmed black Persian-lamb coat a
powder-blue chiffon theatre-hat. Mrs.
Maurice Sloman wore a grey taffeta skirt
with a grey velvet bodice. Mrs. L. J.
Warner’s frock was of junior-blue
organza and lace.
☆ ☆ ☆
Christ Church, South Yarra, was the
setting for the marriage of Sheila Joy,
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Dennett-
Gambell, of East Preston, and Laurence
Edward, only son of Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Hotmer, of St. Kilda-road. The
bride’s gown of ivory satin-brocade had
a high neckline, long tight-fitting sleeves
and gently folded bodice. Her fingertip
tulle veil fell from a tiny white satin
“Swan Lake” cap, which was sewn with
tiny pearls. Her bouquet was of red
roses and white hyacinths. Yvonne
Clarke ’maided in full-skirted, short-
sleeved frock of palest-mauve satin-
brocade ; her bouquet was of mauve and
pink flowers. Alan Doherty was best
man. Reception was at Berkeley Hall,
St. Kilda.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dame Mary 'Daly was hostess at a
pleasant afternoon-tea at Chevron Hotel,
when she and members of her committee v
discussed plans for the Carnival Fantasy
to be held there on Friday, June 24, with
the Governor and Lady Brooks present,
and all proceeds going to Red Cross.
The function, which will include a
Parade of Hats from Ann Austin’s salon,
has been made possible by the generosity
of Chevron’s chairman of directors
Stanley Korman, and so allows Red
Cross to have 500 guests, inclusive of
food and liquid refreshments. The
carnival will be in 17th-century style, and
the floodlit entrance to the hotel will be
decorated with an Elizabethan canopy.
Boar- and deer-heads will decorate the
walls, guests being invited to pay 2s. to
ring the antler of the deer or the tusk of
the boar.
Red Cross will provide all the helpers,
who will be dressed in period-costume.
There will be two witches at a cauldron
into which coins may be tossed in return
for fortune- or astrology-cards. There
will also be tumblers, a fire-eater and a
roving pickpocket and his assistant.
Carnival capers on the village green,
complete with a Queen of the May, will
be additional attractions. Well-known
artist Phyl Waterhouse has designed the
attractive tickets, which will be three-
guineas each. Members of the committee
include Mrs. Eccles Mac Kay, Mrs.
Desmond Hollywood, Mrs. E. Cordner,
Mrs. J. Connell, Mrs. Eric Cottrell,
Clarissa Starey and Marie Daiy. Ticket-
secretaries are Mrs. R. Wallace Mitchell
(8M1449), Mrs. Peter Watkins (UY1711)
and Mrs. Bing Molyneux (WL1462).
Reservations close on June 20, and tickets
are limited to 500.
Alison, youngest daughter of Dr. Frank
May, of Eltham, was educated at Merton
Hall ( C.E.G.G.S. ), and did her nursing-
training at St. Gabriel’s and the Women's
Hospital, after which she had a six-
months' holiday in England. She now
works at Red Cross’s blood-bank. A
popular member of Melbourne’s younger
social group, Alison has an excellent
dress-sense. Most of her spare-time is
spent on horseback in the country.
The respective wives of the Premier
and the deputy-leader of the L.C.P.,
Mrs. Henry Bolte and Mrs. Rylah, were
in Girl Guide uniform when they attended
a reception at the Town Hall given by
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
(Cr. F. P. Selleck and Mrs. Selleck), at
which the guest-of-honor was Mrs. C. O.
Fairbairn, who is retiring as Chief Com-
missioner of Girl Guides in Australia
after a term of eight years. The reception
was attended by Lady Brooks, who
admitted she still possessed an “obsolete
Guide-hat.” She wore a slim frock of
navy wool and a small naVy-velvet cap
trimmed with sequins. Mrs. Selleck
teamed a silver-blue mink stole, a black
barathea suit and tiny matching cap.
Other guests present were Mrs. D. Curtis-
Otter (Victorian State Commissioner for
Guiding), Lady Herring, Lady Angliss,
Mrs. Ross Grey Smith, Mrs. Alec Russell
and Mrs. A. E. Coates, wife of the
president of Rotary in Victoria,
*
St. Vincent’s Maternity Hospital, run
by the Sisters of Charity, has been cater-
ing for about 500 patients a year for
some years. Expansion is now neces-
sary, so an auxiliary has been formed to
raise funds. Its first function will be a
luncheon and hat-parade on June 16
at the Pier Hotel, Frankston. Mrs. Bing
Molyneux is president, Mrs. Desmond
Hollywood is both hon. secretary and
ticket-secretary (8J3478). Helping her
with the tickets is Mrs. John O’Donoghue
(Win. 3610).
A group of young men and women
have banded together to form a commit-
tee to raise funds for the Lord Somers
Camp rebuilding and maintenance fund,
Their first function will be “Camp
Capers,” the Power House Ball, which
will be held in the Royale Ballroom on
June 22. Lieut.-Colonel Phillip Rhodes,
0.8. E., E.D., is chairman of the ball-
committee, Peter Bowen Pain is secretary
and Clive Morris treasurer. Ann Gilli-
son, Nan Game, Josette Pitman, Janet
Chapman and Aldra Dungan are also
members of the committee. Tickets at
255. each may be obtained from the
ticket-secretaries, John M. Adamson
(UL3958), Sue Adamson (8J2257), and
Janet Sloane (8L6939).
SYDNEY
The week included the annual Sheep
Show, which made wool one of the chief
topics of conversation, rather appropri-
ately, as the city also had its coldest day
for six years. Another feature of the
week was film-actor Bob Hope, who
popped up everywhere even though
he apparently managed to be in Brisbane
and Melbourne at the same time. Some
people even thought he opened the Sheep
Show and were rather surprised to hear
that it was the Governor-General who
had performed that ceremony.
The visitors from the country kept the
social flag flying with dinners, cocktail-
parties and a ball. At the Showground
on Friday there were 450 guests at the
cocktail-party given by the Sheepbreeders’
Association, all very loyally dressed in
woollen garments. Mrs. Sam Hordern
struck a forward fashion-note with her
black-and-white tweed suit (narrow skirt
and long casual coat), her yellow knitted
jumper featuring the stand-away turtle-
neck collar. Mrs. Roy McCaughey’s
black Persian-lamb collar, turned back
on a rust-colored coat, was matched by
a muff. Mrs. George Falkiner’s elegant
grey suit had a silver thread and was
worn with a red hat.
The guests included the Malcolm
Bodys, of Ardgaur, Quirindi; the E. J.
Bodys, of Bundemar, Trangie; Mr. and
Mrs. J. Chick, from Gurley; South Aus-
tralians Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Hookings ;
the Len Pockleys, from Pylara, Tarago ;
Mr. Kelvin Vickery (who was quite
unabashed about having forgotten his
ticket); Mr. and Mrs. Gus Taylor, of
Lindsbury, Cudal; Professor P. R.
McMahon and Mrs. McMahon (whose
main interest in wool is its weav-
able properties); Mr. and Mrs.
B. W. A. McGeach, of Wanganui,
Wagga; Mr. and Mrs. H. E. F. Kater,
Swatchfield, Oberon; Mr. and Mrs. P. A.
Yeomans ; Mr. and Mrs. H. Sarina ; Mr.
and Mrs. Tony Trebeck. Most of the
women favored the classic suit in a well-
but conservatively-dressed gathering, the
only example of a slipped waistline to be
observed being on the cream coat worn
by Sydney’s leading model, Judy
Barraclough.
Jeanette Johnston, only daughter of
Mrs. M. Johnston, of Concord, and the
late Mr. H. B. Johnston, has recently
become engaged to John Leitch, twin son
of Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Leitch, Springville,
Narrabri. Jeanette has only just returned
from a 2½ years' trip abroad, much of
it spent in Canada. Wedding is to be at
the end of the year. Photo by Dayne.
Gala occasion of the week was the
world-premiere of “Seven Little Foys”
at the Prince Edward Theatre, when the
star, Bob Hope, made a personal appear-
ance. Bob practically “rode in triumph”
from Queen’s-square to the theatre, pre-
ceded by the girls’ pipe-band besieged by
crowds, defended by policemen, illu-
minated by klieg-lights, surrounded by
photographers and all the rest of it. The
proceeds of the night (probably about
£5000) will go to the Spastic Centre at
Bob Hope’s special request, as he is vice-
chairman of the sister-organisation in
America and has done a great deal of
work on its behalf.
There was some really beautiful
dressing at this premiere. Mrs. Marcel
Dekyvere, president of the committee
which organised the function, wore a
crinoline dress of tiny black-net frills,
with a diamond brooch and a mink
stole. Programme-sellers included some
of Sydney’s prettiest young girls, and
their dresses were a fashion-show in them-
selves. Jill Campbell’s short grey satin
dress, tying in two bows at the shoulder,
was one of the loveliest, while Beth
Campbell’s red tulle and lace ballerina,
worn with matching shoes, was also
striking. Notable were Romayne
Hordern’s white chiffon patterned with
tiny shamrocks and worn with a
turquoise stole, Mrs. Dick Harford’s tie-
silk in scarab-green and Marcia Moses’s
short white satin with its white lace hip-
yoke. Mrs. Mel Lawton, who was present
with her husband, wore a very dashing
full-length evening-coat of red brocade
with a huge stand-up collar.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Autumn Exhibition of the Royal
Art Society opened at Anthony
Horderns’ Gallery, preceded by a very
pleasant cocktail-party, when the presi-
dent, Mr. Erik Langker, with Mrs.
Langker and the council, entertained
about 150 guests. Noted many of
Sydney’s women painters present: Miss
Mary Edwards, Lady Hallstrom (who is
exhibiting two oils, a changeover from
the work in watercolors which she has
shown in recent years) and Florence
Broadhurst (Mrs. Leonard Lewis), whose
painting “Lake Canobolas, Orange” is
showing. Mrs. Lewis, by the way, leaves
shortly for abroad. It was interesting
to see that more than a quarter of the
exhibitors at this show are women. Mr.
John Ellis, U.K. Information Officer, who
opened the exhibition, is another whom
Sydney is to lose in the near future, his
next post being in Ceylon.
☆ ☆ ☆
Those who are lucky enough to own
antiques of any kind dating back to the
period before 1835 may be willing to
lend them for the exhibition which the
Women’s Auxiliary of Dr. Barnardo’s
Homes is organising for the week begin-
ning July 19. Mr. Stanley Lipscombe,
who is honorary adviser to the commit-
tee, has agreed to call at the home of
anyone who wishes to help in this way
and to inspect pieces which may be con-
sidered suitable for the exhibition. Those
who like to “share” their treasures for
a short period, and in doing so help a
very good cause, should get in touch
with either of the hon. secretaries, Mrs.
Alfred Varcoe, of Point Piper, or Mrs.
Norman Jones, of Wahroonga.
☆ ☆ ☆
Symptomatic of the healthy state of
amateur music-making in Sydney is that
our seats of learning are giving it
increasing attention. Newington College
Music Group is a case in point. With a
lively committee, and under the direction
of Clement Hosking, it gives encourage-
ment to the talent in its midst, and even
finds the presentation of small operas not
beyond its powers.
Last Friday night it put on Mozart’s
charming little opera “Bastien and
Bastienne,” written when the composer
was only 12, but strongly indicative of
the genius that was to flourish so glori-
ously. Mezzo-soprano Margaret Loth,
soprano Helen Trevillian and baritone
John Lanser, with Brigid Clarke at the
piano, worked out the little tale of lovers’
quarrel and reconciliation smoothly and
with no little artistry. Miss Loth was
also heard in a bracket of songs by
Schubert. An unusual sonata was that
for trombone written by Donald Hollier,
who played the piano part. Ronald
Smart was the trombonist. The work
contains some facile writing for both the
brass and keyboard.
Mrs. Grice was in charge of social
arrangements, assisted by Mrs. Webb.
Hostess for the night was Mrs. K. Mercer.
Other committee-members present were
Mrs. A. J. Birtles (wife of the deputy-
headmaster), Mrs. R. Evans (wife of the
hon.-secretary), Mrs. K. Wilcox, Mrs.
A. C. Radford, Mrs.. J. Woodhouse, Mrs.
W. J. Pigot and Mrs. Welch.
☆ ☆ ☆
Undoubtedly the most spectacular
presentation of debutantes in Sydney is
that held at the University Settlement
Ball, which this year will take place on
Friday, June 17. The dancing is at the
Union refectory, but the debs, are pre-
sented to the Governor, Sir John North-
cott, in the Great Hall, where they also
waltz with their escorts. It is generally a
very beautiful sight and should be so
again this year.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Divorce Notice®
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO OSCAR CLARENCE PRICE late of
Canberra.—TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS
MAY PRICE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 414 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under S. 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 15th August 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor,
of Hunter Street, Newcastle West; or his
Sydney Agent, J. K. DIXON, ESQ.,
Solicitor, of 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDNA JANE WEBSTER late of 3
Lenton Parade Waterloo. —TAKE NOTICE
that JOHN ROBERT WEBSTER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3297 of
1954 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 11th day of July 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from PETTI'FORD & HILBERY,
Solicitors, 15 Waratah House, Bayswater
Road, Kings Cross. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KEVIN JOHN SHEPHERD late of
Grenfell.—TAKE NOTICE that ELIZA-
BETH JANE SHEPHERD has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3673 of ]954
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 15th August 1955 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from J. C. RICKARD, SYMONDS &
CO., Solicitors, of 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
CHILDREN-
by choice, not chance!
SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERY
The humanitarian scientists, Dr. Knaus, and Dr. Ogino, have
discovered a means of determining, with certainty the exact
time of fertility and sterility in the individual woman. Therefore
from now on one can dispense with poisonous chemicals and harmful
appliances—with all contraceptives as being unethical, unreliable
and opposed by health authorities and religious principles.
A NATURAL METHOD OF BIRTH CONTROL
and Family Planning. It is easy to follow and absolutely re-
liable. This Natural System enables people to whom children have
been denied for years to calculate acccurately the woman’s fertile
times and thus know when conception may be fostered. On the other
hand, it encourages young couples to marry early by enabling them
to settle down properly before assuming the responsibilities of
parenthood. Then when both are fittest, they can fix the date for
conception and the birth of their first child and later, according
to circumstances.
THE ELIMINATION OF RISK
In the past, a woman could never be sure; she had to take a big
risk. Now, with the Natural System she can know with certainty.
Thousands of clinical tests have proved it.
CHURCH SANCTIONS NATURAL METHOD
World medical authorities highly recommend it. Dr. Alexandres
“MARITAL ADJUSTMENT COURSE” gives complete guidance for
the happy and successful regulation of the marital relationship
in all its aspects. It contains the “WOMAN’S CYCLE CALCULA-
TOR,” invented by DR. E. ALEXANDRE, D.Sc. The information
Is guaranteed reliable and enables you to plan your family witn
certainty.
Price of FULL COURSE with CALCULATOR
£3
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, Dept. 8.N.4, Box 3584, G.P.0., Sydney.
MAIL NOW—DON’T WAIT AND BE SORRY
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, D.Sc., Dept 8.N.4, Box 3584, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W. 12 Alan St., Nth. Sydney. Phone XY 6789.
Please send me, under plain, sealed cover:—
Further information re both. I enclose addressed, stamped envelope.
The CALCULATOR by itself. I enclose £1
The FULL COURSE with CALCULATOR. I enclose £3
NAME (Print)
ADDRESS (State) B N - 8 / 6 /’ 55
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Goossens and Fisher
The latest trip to Brisbane of
Eugene Goossens brought the
Queensland Symphony Orchestra
a programme of unfamiliar
music, much of it imaginatively
demanding for players and
audience. Imagination not be-
ing particularly essential to the
enjoyment of the run-of-the-mill
symphony concert, some of the
audience may have been taken
unawares, but the orchestra
sounded very confident indeed
under Goossens’s communica-
tive baton.
The Third Sibelius Symphony
suited the size of the orchestra
well, its pleasant, clear scoring
and attractive tunes sounding
to better advantage than the
volcanic climaxes of the earlier
symphonies, which need big
orchestras.
This is one Sibelius symphony
without musical references to
Finnish people and landscapes,
and it has no trace of the chill
winds that blow through so
much Sibelius music. Only the
last movement uses the Sibelian
habit of building-up a tune by
uniting scraps of melody tossed
about from instrument to in-
strument. Yet here the work
sails close to the musical rocks,
there being too much muttering
among bassoons and horns be-
fore anything like a tune gets
under way. The conductor held
the movement together, and the
very sound of the orchestra was
fascinating once things warmed-
up. The woodwind players have
seldom been so unanimous about
their entries.
Elgar’s “Falstaff” is frankly
descriptive, and though it can
be listened to without a know-
ledge of Shakspeare, the story
does help. Goossens hit upon
the soundly Elizabethan device
of having a boy display a series
of placards to the audience
announcing changes of scene,
making the music plain enough
for the dullest.
Music can paint a vivid pic-
ture, and Elgar’s swinging tunes
and skilful characterisation
translated Falstaff and Prince
Hal into effective sound, even
though he saw them through
Edwardian eyes. George White’s
solo violin made Falstaff’s dream
of his youth a serenely beauti-
ful interlude, and the rest of
the orchestra rarely failed to
measure up to the conductor’s
demands.
Sylvia Fisher’s singing was
also in the grand manner. She
sang Beethoven’s rarely heard
“Ah Perfido!”, a music-drama
for one voice in which Beet-
hoven traverses most of the pas-
sions of a rejected lover and,
incidentally, most of the vocal
contortions of an accepted
soprano. The music' bears a
strong resemblance to the opera
“Fidelio,” and when a soprano
is game to attempt it and sings
it as well as Sylvia Fisher did,
it makes a more exciting concert-
piece than the usual aria torn
from its operatic context.
D. J. M.
Verdi’s “Requiem”
“Veneration” was the word
used by Verdi to describe his
feelings about his compatriot
Alessandro Manzoni, and when
that distinguished poet and
novelist died the composer set
about paying tribute to his
memory with a towering monu-
ment of choral and orchestral
music.
This “Requiem” was attacked
as being too theatrical in con-
cept, too operatic in style. The
criticism was unjust. Dramatic it
is, as could have been expected
from a composer who had be-
hind him 35 years of writing
highly successful music-dramas
and -tragedies. But the work
hasn’t a bar of liturgical arid-
ness in it, which probably ac-
counted for the criticism. It is
magnificently proportioned, re-
plete with glorious melodies for
soloists and choir, and, above
all, it has passionate intensity
and utter sincerity—veneration
indeed in music.
The performance at Sydney
Town Hall with the Symphony
Orchestra under Goossens, four
principals and the Hurlstone
Choir, was a triumph for all con-
cerned. The orchestra’s reading
was warm and sympathetic, and
easy on the soloists; the choir
was well disciplined, its attacks
precise, the climaxes well built-
up and cleanly cut.
The singing of the soloists was
the best heard in a work of the
kind for a long time. Sylvia
Fisher’s singing was wonderfully
sensitive, her high notes held
on the half-voice particularly
beautiful in quality. Florence
Taylor’s contralto was always
rich and mellow; her duet with
Miss Fisher, the lovely “Agnus
Dei,” was the high peak of the
night’s concerted work. Max
Worthley used his lyric-tenor
with fine judgment, and Morris
Williams’s bass supplied the dark
shadows with good resonance.
Eugene Goossens, always at
his authoritative best when he
has the double task of directing
both choir and orchestra in one
of the big works, really excelled
himself. His handling of the split
choirs in the onrush of the Pleni,
Benedict and Hosanna in the
great fugue for double-chorus to-
wards the close was masterly.
From the orchestra he extracted
a beautiful balance, nowhere
better than in the phases where
the brasses were called on for
extra work.
*> ❖ 4*
“II Trovatore”
At Her Majesty’s, Melbourne.
The story, of course, a clotted
mass of unintelligible absurdities
and frantic nonsense; the music
one lovely melody treading on
the heels of the next, and then
another and another.
And don’t these Italians know
how to stick their chests out and
take advantage of it all!
Dora Minarchi, for instance.
As Azucena, the gore-stained
gipsy, she hits a top B flat right
on the note, and not only hits it
but holds it. Another justifica-
tion for her existence is that in
her fratricidal frenzy, when she
steals the younger child of the
Count di Luna from its cradle,
intent to murder, she throws her
own child into the bonfire and
thus preserves Manrico for the
purposes of Umberto Borso’s
glorious tenor.
Lowering and glowering, the
count drags Azucena to a win-
dow to witness the death of her
supposed son. “It is over,”
screams the count. “The vic-
tim was thy brother,” shrieks
Azucena. “And I still five,”
exclaims the count.
He deserves to, having a bari-
tone like Mastrangelo’s. And,
incredible bunk as it is, “II
Trovatore” also deserves to live,
if only for the chanting of the
Miserere by the Williamson
chorus.
♦♦♦ * ♦>
Barbirolli
Sir John Barbirolli opened his
second season in Melbourne with
a new piece which, being per-
formed at the Town Hall,
couldn’t possibly have got nearer
to the source of its inspiration—
unless, of course, Australian
explorers succeed in building a
symphony orchestra and a con-
cert-chamber of ice-blocks on
Heard Island.
It was Vaughan Williams’s
“Antarctic Symphony,” com-
posed for the film “Scott of the
Antarctic.”
One may have been merely
reading into it the notes on the
programme, but it certainly did
seem to express unending flat-
ness, cold, wind whistling and
sometimes howling, nasty things
about to happen, no sex, nothing
—the voices of the Ladies of the
Oriana Madrigal Choir were
only introduced to emphasise
the loneliness and isolation, with
the fading-away into primordial
nothingness symbolised by the
singing gliding into silence.
Artbursts
Royal Art Society
With some of its best artists
absent and others —such as Nor-
man Lindsay and Lance
Solomon —represented by their
average rather than their major
works, the N.SW. Royal
Art Society’s autumn exhibition
falls far below the standard ex-
pected of this fortress of tradi-
tion.
However, the Lindsay water-
color is very pleasant and Lance
Solomon’s “Gathering Storm,”
though not a large picture, is
the best piece of sky-painting one
has yet seen from this most
sensitive observer of Nature,
very fine indeed in its white and
steel-blue storm rolling upon
the sombre landscape.
There are a couple of sound,
standard Robert Johnsons; a
landscape and a head-study by
Garrett Kingsley both showing
delicacy of touch; and a lively
impression of unexpected colors
in a swamp by Frank Jessup.
E. M. Hegarty’s “Approaching
Shower” would, for its fresh bit
of sea, be the best of the water-
colors, if only the cliff in the
foreground hadn’t got grubby
instead of scrubby.
•* *t* ❖
Dutch Contribution
The wobbly pots and black
villages of Gerard Havekes at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries are
a form of '.’expressionism” so
naive that it effectively conceals
whatever talent the painter—a
young Dutchman —may have.
No doubt the Dutch cannot go
on repeating their past triumphs,
but in this crude method no
painter could hope to say in six
square-miles of canvas what
Vermeer said in six square-
inches. Alone among the
slathery oils one watercolor of
a village in Java, loose and
amorphous though it is, has a
soft ruby glow that suggests
some feeling for the nuances of
color.
The majority of the works
by Sydney painters hanging
currently at the Victorian
Artists’ Society in Melbourne
haven’t much meaning—Paul
Haefliger’s “Old House,”
Alistair Morrison’s abstract or
Eric Smith’s “Crucifixion,” for
examples. Exceptions include
Russell Drysdale’s sketch of an
old man above the stairway and
William Dobell’s “The Student.”
Although it is not one of his
best works and is cracking
badly, Dobell has felt his sub-
ject and got a lot of the feeling
into the portrait. The Drysdale
sketch has a nervous quality of
line about it.
♦l* ❖
The Group of Four, who turn
out to be five, are once more
showing their sculpture at the
University of Melbourne.
Guenter Stein works in con-
crete, brass and copper ; Norma
Redpath in black-bean, Huon-
pine and maple; Clifford Last
in slaty-gum, redgum and free-
stone ; Inge King and Julius
Kuhn in materials a bit more
plastic. With all of them the
accent here is on fashion;
Nature never gets a look-in.
Talkies
“The Colditz Story” (Sydney
Embassy): Based on actual
happenings in Colditz Castle, in
which eyrie perched on a
Bavarian mountain the Nazis
confined the most incorrigible
escape-artists from their p.-0.-w.
camps. It is an excellent Eng-
lish compound of thrilling and
ingenious attempts to escape and
the stubbornly - maintained
humor, particularly of the
British contingent.
John Mills is the appointed
escape-officer, full of ideas and
a bouncing vitality; Eric Port-
man is the senior British officer
in the camp, quiet, philosophi-
cal, far-sighted both give
admirable performances.
Good character - studies
include that of Frederick Valk
as the bull-necked Commandant,
icily correct when dealing with
the English senior officer, a pig
when dealing with his own staff
or recalcitrant prisoners; and
that of Denis Shaw, as a junior
German officer with a special
nose for ferreting-out escape-
attempts.
❖ ❖
“About Mrs. Leslie” (Sydney
Prince Edward): A gentle senti-
mentality pervades this story
about an early - middle - aged
boarding-housekeeper who drifts
into an attachment with an un-
happily married industrialist
and, for six weeks of every year,
shares his backwoods vacation in
a Utopian companionship.
Attempts to make this liaison
look like a beautiful and inno-
cent friendship are rather naive,
and in the hands of anyone less
skilled than Shirley Booth the
film could have flopped badly.
As it stands, it is passably enter-
taining. Robert Ryan is the
wizard who is able to get away
on an extended holiday every
year without his wife.
❖ ❖
“Two Pennyworth of Hope”
(Sydney Paris): A gaily insouci-
ant study of the lives and loves
of post-war unemployed in a
little Italian village who can
manage to laugh and enjoy
themselves despite crippling
poverty. Even the feuds
between hate-torn neighbors
over the most trifling pieces of
property yield plenty of good
comedy. Informing it all is a
shrewd appraisal of Homo
sapiens and his foibles, and it is
well studded with touches of
keen irony.


Backyard mechanic
By M. [?] Vomcemt
JOCK TARRANT was, for
the most part, a charming
husband. Of course he
had his faults; but of
them all the most trying was his
obsession that every rattle,
wheeze, clang and “miss” in the
Tarrant car had to be located
and, if at all possible,
eliminated.
This meant that the vehicle
spent one quarter of the year in
pieces, another in being given
trial-runs, the third in convey-
ing the family in pursuit of
pleasure and the visiting of
friends and relations, and
the final quarter in being
“listened-to” and diagnosed.
The final quarter was most dis-
liked by Mrs. Tarrant, a short,
plump, vivacious person, who
confided to her friends that she
felt “like screaming” every time
Jock said, “There’s a bit of a
knock I noticed just back there.
Now listen ! ” ; or “Keep your
eye on the oil-pressure, will you,
kid? I’ve a feeling it’s not all
it should be. I had a look at
the filter, but she’s okay. Now
I wonder . .
The very worst aspect of this
final stage was that it always
seemed to come just before the
Christmas holidays, which meant
that the Tarrant “Tadpole”
greeted the New Year with a
yawn of disdain, its wretched
entrails draped disgustingly
over the mudguard, and the
engine - head displaying its
vacuous interior to the garage-
roof.
In 1954, however, the “listen-
ing” period was deleted from
schedule. One night early in
October Mrs. Tarrant un-
wittingly disposed of this by
making the innocent report that
the battery was flat. “I pulled
out the starter,” she stated, “and
after a second of whirring it
just went phut.”
“That blasted generator must
have gone on me again,” said
her husband, looking very dis-
consolate. “There must be
something wrong with the cut-
out. I’ll have to get Clarkie to
check the circuit. It can’t be
the generator, surely. I’ve just
had it overhauled. I’ll pull it
down in the weekend just to
make sure.”
“Well, for goodness sake get
it fixed so that I can feel settled
about Christmas for once,” she
said firmly.
“What about Christmas?” he
asked, blandly innocent.
“Now, darling, you aren’t
going to mess around with the
car this Christmas. Little Jock
and I are looking forward to a
holiday. A decent holiday.
None of this scrambling away
at the last minute and listening
for five-hundred miles to see if
everything’s all right. I’ve had
enough of that! And besides
it’s not fair. Here we are
cooped-up all the year at home
and we need a change. It’s all
right for you—you have a
change by being home. Of
course it’s nice having you
home. We love having you
home. It’s not that, but . . .”
“All right. All right. I know
all that,” he interrupted. “1
should, at any rate. I’ve heard
it often enough.” A moment
later he said in a musing tone,
“I’ll get out the map and jot
down a couple of itineraries and
we can see what we think of
them.”
Completely mollified by such
an offer, Mrs. Tarrant relaxed.
She spent a couple of evenings
poring over maps and adding-up
mileages as her husband
deciphered the figures through
a magnifying-glass. By Satur-
day morning they had agreed on
a 2000-mile journey, and the
last thing she said before her
husband wandered out to the
garage was, “I think I’ll buy'
some seersucker and make a
couple of dresses. They would
be just the thing for travelling.”
“You can make me a couple
of shirts to match,” suggested
Jock, grinning at her as he
shrugged into his overalls. “And
you could run-up some pant-
things for the stinker, too, for
that matter. We could display
a placard, The Sightseeing
Seersuckers.”
“Oh, for goodness’ sake, don’t
be so mad. Go and fix up the
generator and get a move on.
I want to go out on Tuesday.”
nrHE morning passed quickly
and, apart from glancing out
of the kitchen-window a couple
of dozen times to make sure the
little boy was with his father,
Mrs. Tarrant went blithely
about her housework and cook-
ing. At midday she went out
with a hot buttered-scone for
her husband. She found him
lying on a bag under the car.
Only his two skinny legs
protruded.
“What are you doing there?”
demanded his wife apprehen-
sively, and then she saw that
the head was off the engine, and
the sump was lying near the
workbench. Instantly she
looked very angry. “Now,
Jock, what are you doing?”
“What in the hell do you
think I’m doing?” he replied,
resenting her intrusion. “Do I
look as though I’m baking a
cake, or what?”
“You’re taking the car to
bits,” she accused.
“So what?”
“You said you were just going
to look at the generator.”
“Well, so I did, and I think
the blasted thing’s burnt out
again. Now go away and stop
bothering me. I’ve just found
something.”
His voice was very testy, and
he shuffled his feet so that his
boots kept up a tattoo. Mrs.
Tarrant looked at them with
disgust.
“And what have you found?”
she asked tartly.
“Well ... it looks a bit —of
course I can’t get much of a
look at her and the light’s bad,
but I think I’ll have to pull the
motor right out. I’ve just got
a glimpse here, and it looks as
though 6ne of the journals is
scored.”
As he talked the asperity was
lost in melancholy musing. “I
won’t be at all surprised to find
something like that. I’ve had
an idea for a long time now
something was wrong. I’ve been
meaning to pull her down for a
while. She needs a good over-
haul. I might as well do it
thoroughly while I’m at it and
then I needn’t touch her for a
while.”
Mrs. Tarrant’s mobile face
made it obvious that this was
just beyond hope, but all she
said was, “Well, I suppose if
you start now there’s a chance
you’ll have it together by
Christmas ... I hope. I sin-
cerely hope so. Here’s a scone.
Shall I pop it in your mouth?
I suppose you’re all covered in
grease. Do you know that Jockie
is playing with your ring-
spanners?”
“Yes. He’s to keep them on
that bag. Has he got them on
that bag?”
“Yes. He has. And he’s
grease all over. My godfather!
if I have to put up with the two
of you, I’ll go mad.”
“Naughty Mummy,” yelled
the boy, lovingly encircling a
nut with a spanner. With the
tip of his tongue just flickering
behind parted lips, and brown
eyes absorbed in his task, long
fingers greasy, thin knees
pressed outwards, he looked so
like his father the mother
smiled. “What a vista the years
unfold,” she murmured. “A
yard full of cars on jacks,
bonnets cocked . . .”
“What’s that, dear?”
mumbled her husband, his
mouth full of scone. “Just
pass me that socket-spanner
before you go—the one near
my boot . . . Ta . . .”
T>Y five-o’clock, when Jock’s
cousin Gordon called in
with the evening paper, the
garage was littered with parts.
Gordon looked about with quiet
amusement. “You’ll have that
car worn out soon,” he drawled.
“Why don’t you give it a rest?”
Jock said good-humoredly, “I
want a car not a bomb like
yours. If you don’t do some-
thing to yours soon it’ll fall to
bits under you one day. It’s
well on the way now. She’s got
a beautiful wheel-wobble, for
one thing ; and she’s got more
knocks in her than a boxing-
ring.”
Gordon’s grin widened. He
said, “She’ll be going when
yours is scrapiron. Cars are
like babies. The more you mess
around with them the crankier
they get. I don’t believe in
tinkering with them.”
Jock did not reply to this:
but after Gordon had left he
said to no one in particular,
“He’s a blasted fool. He should
be bloody well ashamed of him-
self the way he’s neglected that
car. He’s such a fool he doesn’t
know the difference between
tinkering and maintenance.”
Early on Sunday afternoon
the engine was lifted from its
mounting and the disembowelled
car stood in the garage as
naked as a gaping mouth robbed
of its teeth. Mrs. Tarrant, look-
ing at it with distaste, said in
her most pugilistic tone, “Now
don’t forget that 2000 miles at
Christmas.”
Jock stood at the bench,
dreamily running his hands
round and round the shaft.
“Now do you know what I
think? I think that right at the
beginning there was a scrap of
metal got caught up and that’s
what the trouble’s been all
along. Now you remember
that first Saturday after we got
her, coming up that hill from
Dee Why? She got pretty
hot, you remember? And there
was that smell, and I pulled up
and had a look at her, but
couldn’t see anything wrong.
Well, that’s when it happened.”
Mrs. Tarrant said she remem-
bered, but what she was most
interested in now was what had
to be done. He rubbed his chin
reflectively, “Well, I’ll have to
have a talk with a couple of
blokes,” he said. “But I think
now I’ve got her down I might
as well make a first-class job of
her. I’ll have the ports polished
and the shaft ground and the
cylinders honed, and buy a set
of semi-finished pistons and
have them cam-ground to fit.”
Mrs. Tarrant’s face became
very grim. All the vivacity left
it, so that the hollows under the
eyes were accentuated, giving
her face a peculiarly scooped-
out, bovine look. Not that
there was any placidity there,
however; only a weariness.
Cocooned in his dreams, her
husband was oblivious of her
distress, which, in any case,
would have only amazed him,
not deterred him. Leaning one
hip against the bench, feasting
his eyes on the array of parts,
he began to make bubble-
sounds by blowing out his
cheeks and expressing the air
through loose lips. “Plop-plop-
plop,” spluttered the bubbles;
and below at his feet the small
boy still busy with the spanners
valiantly aped his parent.
Mrs. Tarrant began to laugh.
“Well,” she said, “I suppose
there are worse things you could
be doing—wine and women,
for instance.”
“I’ll call out when I need you,
kiddo,” mused Mr. Tarrant.
“I’ll need you to give me a hand
if you’ve got a moment.”
“Naughty Mummy,” cried the
boy shrilly, selecting another
spanner and starting on his
rounds again.
As she went back to the
kitchen Mrs. Tarrant wondered
if she would ever get used to it.
In spite of the spurt of antagon-
ism towards them, she could
not resist looking around at
them as she went through the
back door. “Silly apes,” she
thought affectionately, and then
turned to the calendar on the
wall. The discovery that there
were nine weeks till Christmas
assuaged her fears. Surely it
was safe to plan the holidays,
she told herself. Allowing for
tardiness, setbacks and adjust-
ment, nine weeks seemed ample,
even when considered by a
pessimist.
TTOWEVER, as the weeks
sped by and the car still
gathered dust in the garage, she
felt from time to time spasms
of disquiet. Once or twice
when she was tired, she said,
“You are really very foolish
leaving that car in the garage
with the doors wide open.
You’ve got things all over the
place, and I just can’t keep my
eyes on it all the time. Anybody
could come. That car’s an open
invitation to any prowling child,
and I’m not referring to Jockie.”
One day she said, “You
needn’t think I’m a fusspot
about the car. Gordon said the
same. He said to me today:
‘Jock’s taking a bit of a risk,
isn’t he?’ ”
Her husband pretended not to
hear; but when she repeated it
all in a loud voice, he said, “It’s
apples, kiddo. Don’t worry
about it. If you must worry —
and it looks to me as if you’re in
that sort of mood, then fasten
on to something else.” A bit
later he muttered, “Well, no
one’d pinch his rattletrap even
if he left it bang in the middle
of the main road for a month.”
She said rather resentfully,
“Of course I know nothing’ll
happen just because it’s you.
Now, if I left things around like
that, the moment I took my eyes
off them they’d be gone.”
From time to time chance
remarks dropped casually by
Jock acquainted her with the
fact that “it was a b trying
to get anything done these
days”; that “you couldn’t
depend on jokers” ; that “it’ll be
done by next Tuesday might
mean Tuesday of next month
or the month after that, or
Tuesday of next year.”
One day, talking to Gordon
over the front fence, he said:
“When you do decide to do up
that boneshaker of yours, you
better allow three months for it
on the ice. And if you wait till
it falls apart you might as well
write it off. No garage would
be bothered with it. They’re
snowed-under with easy jobs.
They’re not going to take on
the headache of a wreck if they
can get out of it.”
Gordon laughed. “I’ll tell
you what —when it falls apart
I’ll bring it to you. It should
keep you out of mischief.”
Hearing this, Mrs. Tarrant
poked her tousled head out the
bedroom window. “Don’t you
dare. Do you hear me, Gordon?
Don’t you dare bring Jock any-
thing to do. One car’s more
than enough.”
“Haven’t you got anything
better to do than poke your nose
in?” asked Jock. “Go away.”
“Now mind what I say,” she
cried, ignoring his remark. “I
mean it, Gordon.”
A month before Christmas
Mrs. Tarrant was sufficiently
roused by apprehension to say,
“You must take a firm stand
with those creatures, darling.
Now I know it’s hard for a
person of your temperament,
but you’ll just have to blow-off
steam a bit. Tell them the
position. We’re depending on
that car for our holidays. Tell
them you’re a working-man the
same as they, and that you only
get one holiday a year, and if
they don’t get a move on they’ll
be diddling us out of our holi-
day. How would they like to be
diddled out of their holidays?
They’d probably demand a
wholesale strike.”
“There’s no need to get your-
self all worked up,” he replied
equably. “Now just calm
down. There’s four weeks to
go yet.”
“I’m well aware of that. Four
short weeks and that means four
weekends. And that’s not
enough. I’ll die of mortification
if we don’t get away. Gordon
and Jess are going away for
their two weeks after Christmas
and if we’re still here I can just
imagine what they will say.”
“For the love of Mike, stop
fussing. A month is more than
enough. Once I get all the
parts it’ll only be a couple of
days and I’ll be ready to bung
it in again. Then I’ll have to
tune her up —if everything’s
O.K. And I don’t know why
you’re harping about Gordon
and his mob. That bomb won’t
get them more than fifty miles
at the outside. I saw it today
and it’s a bloody disgrace.
Unless Gordon gets something
done to it soon he won’t get it
past the sergeant for next
registration. I can tell you
that.”
TV'EXT day he arrived home in
great glee with the cylinder-
block. “There you are,” he
cried. “Now perhaps you’re
satisfied.” Without waiting for
her reply, he continued, “It cost
a bit more than I expected,
because he didn’t have a hone
small enough and he had to
send it away and they bored it.
Of course it’s a better job* but
it really wasn’t necessary. Now
all I want is the shaft and I can
start slapping her together.”
On the Friday night it was a
different tale. “The joker down
there, the one I’ve been dealing
with all along, tells me that
they’re knocked haywire with


all these blackouts. Stuff piled
up there roof-high, he says, and
they can’t make any headway
with it.”
“Did you tell him what I told
you?” bleated Mrs. Tarrant.
“What was that, kiddo?”
“Oh you know —about our
holidays.”
“Oh that. Yes, I did mention
it in passing. Any rate he’s a
decent sort of joker and he 11
do his best.”
Twice a week for three weeks,
Mr. Tarrant had a yarn about
the shaft with the decent joker;
and when he arrived home at
night he invariably reported,
“He’s doing his best and it’ll
be ready for sure before
Christmas.”
Pessimistically, Mrs. Tarrant
always replied, “I can see we’re
going to miss out on most of our
holidays. I could spit blood.
I can just see Gordon and Jess
all smug.” She felt like saying
a good deal more on the subject,
but by exercising prodigious
restraint, she refrained. This
restraint was motivated by an
astute wiliness, although of
course she never would have
admitted that she reserved
ultimatums for major crises
alone.
On the Tuesday before Christ-
mas Mr. Tarrant returned home
disconsolate, but not desperate.
“The bloody shaft had to be sent
back to be chromed again. It
wasn’t built up enough, the
joker said. But he’s promised
faithfully it’ll be ready to be
picked up at 2 p.m. on Friday
without fail.”
“I wish I had your faith in
your fellowmen,” was all she
said, but her tone consigned
men to hell.
“It’ll be okay, kiddo. Don’t
worry,” cried her philosophical
spouse. “He’s a decent joker.
He won’t let me down. You
see.” After a while he added,
a little doubtfully, “There’s only
one snag. I won’t be able to get
down to pick it up myself so
I’ll have to depend on someone
doing it for me.”
“Oh, Jock!”
“Now, don’t panic. Old
Salisbury’ll probably be going
down and he’ll pick it up—if he
remembers.”
“Oh, for goodness sake don’t
torment me!”
“He won’t forget—l don’t
think. But unless he picks it
up first thing he might be held
up in the damn’ snarl of traffic
and get there too late. I’ll ask
him to see if he can go there
first.”
All Friday Mrs. Tarrant found
herself thinking of the shaft,
and as soon as she heard the
sound of the truck coming over
the hill she dashed out to the
gate. Anxiously she scanned
his lean face as the truck
approached. He winked at her
as he bounced by.
“G’day. Doin’ anything
tonight?” he asked suggestively.
She hurried after the truck,
calling out, “Did you get it?”
“Where’s Jockie?”
“In bed. Did you get it?”
“Get what?”
“The shaft, you dill.”
“Is this what you’re shrieking
about?” he asked, exhibiting the
shaft, which he produced with a
flourish.
“Oh!”
“Nineteen - pound - fifteen-
worth,” he murmured, running
his hands up and down, round
and round. “Well, now I’ve got
everything, and as soon as
Christmas is over I’ll get stuck
into it.”
“Why can’t you start
tomorrow? Every day is
precious.”
“Have to take the truck over,
they’re going to overhaul it
while I’m on holidays—and not
before time either. The bomb’s
just about falling to bits.”
“Well, Sunday.”
“I thought you said Craig and
Annie were coming. Monday
the family’s coming. Tuesday
Jack and Colleen. So that
means Wednesday. I’ll have it
going for you by next weekend.
If you’re good.”
“But that’s a week off our
holidays,” she wailed.
“So what? That leaves two
weeks. And that’s all we’ll be
able to afford. This is costing
me a packet, I can tell you.”
A CCORDING to schedule, on
Wednesday he set to work,
Up till lunch-time on Friday he
was still fitting the bearings. As
the job progressed it became
evident that something was not
all it should be. Very far from
it, indeed.
Watching him through the
accommodating kitchen-window
his wife thought, “It’s getting
me madder and madder. Hour
after hour— grinding. I’ll bet
anything it’s those wretched
shaft people. They couldn’t
have stuck to the specifications.”
At lunch he said, winningly,
“Can you spare a bit of time to
help me get the rings in?”
“Don’t tell me you’ve finished
grinding' ?”
“Well-1, yes and no. There’s
still more than a two-thou.
tolerance, and I’m a bit windy
about it. Still, I won’t know for
sure till I test her out, and then
if the oil-pressure is punk —
well, I’ll just have to pull her
down again and get another lot
of slippers . . .”
“Lord, give me strength,”
breathed Mrs. Tarrant, savagely
mashing Jockie’s vegetables.
After lunch she helped him
insert the rings in three of the
pistons. This was a tricky
operation accomplished at last
with the aid of a piece of string
which had to be neither too
thick nor too fine. There was
only one piece of the correct
size in the string-bag and by the
time all the twelve rings were in
place it was outliving its useful-
ness. As she lightly tapped the
third cylinder with the handle
of the hammer, pressing at the
same time with a fine chisel
against the ring, she said, “That
string won’t last another go.
We better get another piece—if
we can find one.”
“Well, there’s a little job I
have to do before we get on to
the last one, so if you have any-
thing you want to do . .
When she came back from
gathering bark, she found he
had attended to the last piston
unaided. “I got it in myself,”
he said, and as an afterthought
added nonchalantly, “Had a bit
of bad luck. Snapped one of
the rings.”
“Good heavens! Why didn’t
you wait?”
“There’s no need to get
excited. It was only the oil-
r j ng? and j put j n one D f the
o j d ones be okay
everything’s set for the morning.
ru ]eaV£ off now lVs getting
~ , • th wind
, , . d j[
n o w all f have do
• " - t d lnck
hoW tomorr and that y bit ot
cardboard stays ’ in place »
y p ~,
• „, t ° ? » ear “ are yOU a
m f 11 ,
Well, you know that pilot-
bearing they messed-up when
they took it out to do the job
on the crankshaft. Actually it
should have had a new one, but
lt s to ° late no . w > and 1 P? lgh ;
get away with it—if that bit of
cardboard Ive stuck on holds
the needle-bearing in place till
I get the flywheel-housing in
position.
"Very interesting, stated Mrs
Tyrant disapprovingly. An
might I say that I don t think
it’s fair the way your luck
holds. That s what s wrong with
today. 1 hey ve become careless
because they depend on their
luck to hold. That sort of
thing can lead to national
demoralisation.”
Mr. Tarrant looked amazed,
and then affronted. “What in
the hell has national demoralisa-
tion got to do with my bloody
car?”
Mrs. Tarrant went red to the
ears with temper, and withdrew
in a huff. After a moment her
husband came in and approach-
ing her defiant back, gave her
a tender squeeze. “What about
a drop of sherry?” he asked
mildly. “Cheer you up before
dinner.”
“Oh —all right,” she said
begrudgingly. And then, because
she could never deny him a
smile for long, she turned
around and said, with a pout,
“I think you’re a pig. Telling
me all about that piece of card-
board. I won’t sleep a wink.
I won’t have a moment’s peace
till you get that thing together.”
OF course his luck held! On
Saturday at four in the
afternoon, the impatient Mrs.
Tarrant persuaded him to allow
her to help him carry the
assembled engine and place it
in position.
(i Continued on next page)
NEW BROKEN HILL CONSOLIDATED, LIMITED
Very satisfactory financial result effect of increased production and higher metal prices .
The 19th Annual Meeting of New Broken Hill Consoli-
dated, Limited, will be held on June 22 at 37 Dover
Street, London, W.l.
The following are extracts from the circulated statement of the
chairman, Mr. John R. Govett.
Since the close of the year we have suffered the very sad loss of
our distinguished colleague, Sir Norman Mighell, C.M.G., who, I am
sorry to say, died on April 13 as a result of injuries received in a motor
accident.
From September, 1950, onwards, he was chairman of Consolidated
Zinc Pty., Ltd., who now act as managers of our affairs in Australia. He
was appointed to the London board in 1952. In these several capacities his
great capabilities and wide knowledge of world affairs enabled him to
exercise a wise and energetic leadership. The company is greatly indebted
to him for his devoted service.
Turning now to the year’s results, the profit for the year 1954, before
providing taxation, amounted to £1,141,234, compared with £677,922, an
increase of £463,312. This result, which I think may be regarded as most
satisfactory, is due partly to the substantial increase in production and partly
to the higher prices realised for lead and zinc. The tonnage of ore milled
reached a total of 483,461 tons, compared with 403,662 tons for 1953.
Depreciation has been provided, amounting to £307,000, compared with
£277,400 for 1953. The charge for taxation on the year’s profit amounts to
£543,960, compared with £264,660 for 1953. This leaves a net profit for the
year of £597,274, compared with £413,262 for 1953, an increase of £184,012.
The board have transferred to general reserve the sum of £200,000,
compared with £250,000 in 1953. An interim dividend of 1/3 per share
was declared in November, 1954, and the board now recommend that a
final dividend of 1/9 per share be paid, making a total distribution for
the year of 3/- per share, which compares with 1/6 per share for 1953.
These dividends, payable less income tax, require £384,454, leaving a surplus
of £270,007 to be carried forward, a small increase of £12,820 on last
year’s balance.
Capital expenditure during 1954 amounted to £345,858 on mine
development, including shaft sinking, and £304,203 on machinery, plant,
buildings, and equipment, giving a total of £650,061.
In February, 1954, the company issued at par £1,000,000 5£% unsecured
loan stock 1956-65. Half of this issue is convertible into shares, at the
rate of four shares for each £5 of stock, and up to 30th April, 1955,
£108,760 stock had been converted, and the shares are entitled to the final
dividend payable in respect of 1954.
PRODUCTION
Operations were carried out on the maximum of 238 working days in
1954, and no available working time was lost from any industrial dispute
or other causes.
Ore production considerably exceeded the target set for the year,
and the results achieved reflect great credit on the management and
employees at Broken Hill.
Ore production from the company’s leases in 1954 totalled 482,058
tons, compared with 405,629 tons in 1953. There was an improvement
in grade of lead, silver, and zinc mined due to an increase in production
from No. 19 level.
The average rate of production per working day was 2025 tons,
compared with 1683 tons in 1953 and 1045 in 1952. In the period of
20 working days ended 25th September, 1954, the average number of tons
mined per day reached the record figure of 2211 tons.
Stoping efficiency again showed a substantial increase from 12.61 tons
per stoping-miner-shift in 1953 to 15.79 tons in 1954. As an additional
measure of the improvement in efficiency, it is recorded that the output
per shift per mining department employee rose from 2.85 tons in 1953 to 3.56
tons in 1954. All of the tonnage from stoping was mined from open stopes.
The tonnage milled in 1954 amounted to 483,461 tons, as against
403,662 tons in 1953.
In 1954, 338,630 tons out of the above total of 483,461 tons were
treated in the company’s mill, the remaining 144,831 tons in the Zinc
Corporation’s mill.
Metallurgical efficiencies show further improvement. The total recovery
of lead and silver in the lead and lead-copper concentrate and the recovery
of zinc in zinc concentrate were as follows:
’ ’ * 92.0%
%'} yer .. .. 94.5%
Zinc
Expressing realisations of lead concentrate in terms of recoverable
lead and silver content and zinc metal in terms of the relative zinc concen-
trate, total realisations for 1954 as compared with 1953 were as follows:
Recoverable Lead Silver Zinc Concentrates
(tons) (ounces) (tons)
in;;! .. .. 36,198 749,686 117,874
J,j5 3 ;; .. .. 31,996 695,525 97,828
In addition, 814 tons of lead/copper concentrate were realised.
ORE RESERVES
The ore reserves fully outlined and developed ready for stoping, or
in process of being stoped, show a further satisfactory increase, and at
31st December, 1954, were calculated as follows:
Tons Lead Silver Zinc
assaying: per cent, ounces per cent.
Above No. 16 Level .. .. 900,000 5.7 1.2 16.0
Below No. 16 Level .. * .. 1,900,000 13.6 3.4 10.0
Total (31/12/’54) .. .. 2,800,000 11.1 2.7 IL9
Total (31/12/’53) .. .. 2,500,000 10.9 2.7 IL4
DEVELOPMENT AND DIAMOND DRILLING
The service shaft, the sinking of which was completed to a depth of
3194 feet at 28i feet below the No. 22 Level in March, 1954, was fully
equipped and in operation to the No. 22 Level in January of this year.
For the time being, therefore, we still lack knowledge of the form and
extent of the high-grade orebodies beyond the first 1500 feet of our leases,
which continue to the south for over three miles.
On the other hand, further development and drilling south have more
clearly defined and fully confirmed the very satisfactory expectancy of
high-grade ore in the first 1500 feet south of the Zinc Corporation boundary
as outlined in the 1954 report, and it is of interest to record that no other
mine in Broken Hill has had such a concentration of mineralisation in so
short a longitudinal distance.
The possible development and economic recovery of the large tonnage
of low-grade ore to which I referred in my statement last year continues
to receive our attention, and a programme of pattern drilling between Nos.
12 and 18 Levels has been laid out to determine the areas of most likely
interest, and to explore the extension of these low-grade areas to the
south of 1500 feet south.
SURFACE
Following the completion in 1953 of the original programme of surface
construction, the only major work subsequently carried out has been
the addition of a second section of the mill to enable it to treat 540,000
tons per annum. The buildings for the new section were completed by
the end of last year, and the equipment is now being installed. It is
expected that the new section will be in full production in September.
Among other work carried out in the year may be mentioned the
completion of the equipment of the service shaft headframe, the general
surface lighting, and a concrete mixing station adjacent to the shaft to
provide particularly for increasing quantities of concrete being used under-
ground. In addition, further surface areas have been sealed and the
equipment of No. 2 change-house' is in progress.
EMPLOYEES
At the close of the year the number of employees had increased to
839, compared with 801 at the end of 1953, and staff now totals 103.
Great credit is due to the staff and employees for the continued
improvement in underground efficiency. This has, of course, been reflected
in an improvement in overall costs, and, at the same time, has brought a
considerable increase in the earnings of the contract employees in the
mine. I feel confident that continuance of the same spirit of co-operation
in the application of improved methods and equipment cannot fail to bring
further benefits to all parties.
MARKETS AND PRICES
As regards the markets for our products, I would repeat, as I have done
on former occasions, the statement I am making to the members of The
Consolidated Zinc Corporation Ltd.
In my statement last year I suggested that at the then current level
of costs a combined lead/zinc price in the United Kingdom of £175 would
prove satisfactory to our interests, and it so happened that the combined
price for the past year closely approximated this figure.
CONCLUSION
I know shareholders will again wish to join me in a tribute to our manage
ment at Broken Hill, and the staff and employees there for the further sub-
stantial progress made in 1954, towards our present goal of 540,000 tons of
ore per annum. This rate of production should be fully achieved so soon as
the underground crusher station and extension of the mill are completed
before the end of the current year. . ,
The moderate increase in the average prices of lead and zinc over the year
compared with 1953, together with the increased production, has secured tor-
us in 1954 the greater part of the improvement in profit, which was forecast
for 1955, in the prospectus for the Unsecured Loan Stock issued in
February, 1954, and as mentioned in my statement last year. As a result, after
providing for the proposed dividend, our financial resources, reinforced by
the transfer to reserve and the funds obtained from the issue of the
Unsecured Loan Stock early last year, place us in a strong position t<? meet
possible vagaries in the metal markets and the demand likely to arise for
future mine development, including any development of the low grade
orebodies within our leases which we consider will ultimately prove a
substantial additional asset. , ~
Prices in the opening months of the current year have remained well
above those of the corresponding period of last year, and I have every
reason to expect that our results for this year will be no less favorable than
those I have been able to put before *°“^ GOVETI . ]2th May> 1955


CHATEAU TANUNDA
No
r'i'r
\\' v
*
A typical "canvas town" —Emerald Hill, Victoria, 1854.*
THE MAGIC OF GOLD
Gold waved a magic wand over Australian life 3
in the middle of last century, transforming a -
thinly-populated continent into a Promised
Land of immense possibilities. -
. In 1851, at the time Edward Hammond Hargraves
found the first payable gold near Bathurst, the country’s
- population was 437,665. The fabulously rich dis-
coveries that followed in New South Wales and Victoria
were lures the Old World could not resist. In the next
decade, Australia's population rose by 740,000, mainly
p. by migration from Britain. When a census was taken _
. in 1861, it was found that the total population of
Australia had grown to 1,168,149. Of these, nearly
92 per cent., were of Australian or British birth.
Much of this expansion took place in Victoria, where
goldfields of tremendous value—possibly the richest
ever found in the world—were opened up in and near
Ballarat. The population on these fields grew with
amazing rapidity. In 1851, Victoria had only 77,345
people; in the next six years, the population soared to
410,766, far outstripping the rate of growth in N.S.W.
So great was the press of migration from Britain that
ships were unable to cope with the demand for
passages. Every vessel arriving in Sydney, Melbourne
or Geelong was crammed with fortune-hungry migrants
whose only thought was to reach the El Dorados of -
N.S.W. and Victoria, which were yielding gold worth ~
an average of £11,500,000 yearly.
The shipping problem became particularly acute,
because entire crews of these ships often deserted in
Sydney and Port Phillip, leaving ghostly fleets to lie
idle at their moorings until scratch crews could be
found for the trip between Australia and Britain. I
* Print courtesy of the Mitchell Library.
CHATEAU TANUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
Agents in N.S.W. i
TUCKER AND COMPANY PTY. LTD. EST. 1838
GF4
.Ml i. j
nVv'
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. ... 2/-
Yearly Subscription.,. 22/6
He was not too happy about
this, saying it would be best to
wait until Gordon came along:
but the thought of the wasted
hour was too much for Mrs.
Tarrant, and she eventually per-
suaded him to “just try.” “It’s
such a small engine . . . and if
you take the heavy end, I think
I can manage the other,” she
urged.
“Well ... it came out easy
enough . . . but that clutch-lever
is going to be a trouble, I’m
afraid. Any rate we’ll give it a
burl.”
After the preliminary manipu-
lation, Mrs. Tarrant lay on a
bag under the car and tried to
steer the gear-lever through the
hole in the floor while her hus-
band supported the engine and
shoved at the same time. This
colossal attempt was a miser-
able failure, and was abandoned
after a mysterious explosive
sound occurred immediately
above Mrs. Tarrant’s head. Mr.
Tarrant said he was afraid the
gear-lever had sprung off some
obstruction, but Mrs. Tarrant
was too busy cleaning the
particles of greasy mud from
her mouth and eyes to make any
comment.
Fortunately at this stage
Gordon arrived and took over
from Mrs. Tarrant, who went
inside to wash-out her eyes.
Five minutes later she came to
the door, expecting to see the
engine in place, but finding the
two men lowering it on to the
concrete.
“What’s wrong on earth?”
she called out.
“You tell me, and I’ll know,”
was the reply. Gordon obliged
with an explanation, “The
clutch’s slipping.”
“If you must know, it looks
as though I’ll have to take the
flywheel-housing off and adjust
the clutch-fingers. Any rate, I
hope that’s all that’s wrong.
I’ll tell you tomorrow when I
have a look. Of course it could
be in the gear-box ”
“Please don’t tell me any
more. I’ve had all I can stand,
and tonight I’m going to do for
you and the car with the axe.”
The next day, however, she
was well to the fore when the
adjustment was being made.
Gordon kindly called in to help
with the engine-lifting. Two
hours later he left, saying,
“You’ll be getting away before
us, after all.”
“I wish I as optimistic as
that,” she retorted, and went
inside to await the next mishap.
This was reported at morning-
tea time. “Well, kiddo, I’ve got
a bit of bad news for you.”
“What?”
“I’ve stripped the thread on
one of the bolts that holds down
the head. But I think I can fix
it up. Any rate, I’m not too
happy about those bolts.”
“Why?”
“Well, the corners of the nuts
are burred quite a bit and I
can’t get a decent grip to
tighten up the bolts enough,
and I think we’ll find the water’ll
leak out. I’ll have to have some
others made, and while I’m at
it I’ll get them longer.”
An hour later when she went
out to the garage, he was
jubilant. “Hang around a while,
kiddo, and you’ll hear her.”
“Oh?”
“Yes, she’s just about set.
Just have to fill her up with
water and stick in the oil.”
Mrs. Tarrant was in the bed-
room when the roaring began.
She raced outside in her slip.
“I just can’t believe it,” she
cried, her face glowing.
Jock was standing over the
engine, his hand on the
accelerator rod. There was a
worried frown on his face.
“She’s not idling at all well.
Something’s wrong. She’s
sucking air. Dunno what’s
wrong. Now I wonder what’s
-making her do that. Something
damn’ queer. And look at the
water. Dribbling down the side
there. I’ll have to do something
about it.”
“Does anything ever go really
right?” she demanded crossly,
and went inside.
A quarter of an hour later and
“ White, brown, rye, wholemeal or starch-reduced?”
the car actually moved out of
the yard. Outside the gates it
began tuning-up like a cicada
revelling in the rising tempera-
ture. A few minutes later it
was backed into the garage
again.
AT lunch-time he announced
cheerfully, “I found out
why she was sucking air. I’d
forgotten to put in the excess
petrol-drainpipe in the manifold.
And, by gollies, I’ve thought of
a way to get over that bolt
trouble. I’ll just file down the
nuts till the next size spanner
fits them.”
“When are you going for a
spin?”
“A spin!” he cried, aghast.
“I’ll run it in the yard a few
times this afternoon. Tomorrow
we can go out to the main-road
and back. Perhaps down to the
river. No further. And the
next day we can go over to
Camden—perhaps.”
She rolled her eyes in horror.
“At this rate when can we start
out on our holidays?”
“Oh, you’re back on that
again,” he said in a bored
voice.
Without a word she rose from
the table and started clearing-
off the dishes. After she had
washed-up she changed the little
boy and took him visiting. She
returned home in a much better
humor, having talked at high-
pressure for an hour about the
disadvantages of being a wife to
a backyard-mechanic and a
mother to his enthusiastic
offsider. \
She thought a little guiltily,
“Perhaps I shouldn’t have
blown-off quite so furiously—
but I did make it clear I liked
him being home. It’s just that
I’m peeved about being diddled-
out of our holidays. But of
course the poor darling can’t
really be blamed for the late
start he’s had. This time he did
start early. Perhaps I’ve been
a bit hard on him.”
Her tender heart was dis-
mayed by such a suspicion, and
as a result that evening and the
next day passed very pleasantly,
despite the fact that after the
run to the river it was evident
that the oil-pressure was any-
thing but satisfactory.
After a trip to the city on the
Wednesday for undersized-
bearings, her impatience was
once again turbulent, and by
Thursday the Tarrant household
was in the doldrums as one of
the offending bolts snapped.
“The so-and-so thing,” he
grumbled. “I only had a 151 b.
pressure on it, too. Any bolt
should stand up to that. Well,
I’ll just have to go over to
Archie and get him to make me
another. Gordon’s going oyer
for a spare tyre and he’ll give
me a lift.”
“There you are,” she cried,
“they will get away before us.”
This remark was ignored, mainly
because Mr. Tarrant had more
important things to concern
him than the Thatcher’s
holidays.
The next day, with the bolts
satisfactorily tightened, the
water ceased percolating, but the
new slipper-bearings boosted the
oil-pressure so slightly that even
Mr. Tarrant was moody. He
spent Thursday evening brood-
ing, and on Friday he unfolded
a plan for an experiment which
would show, so he said, where
the pressure was being lost. He
thereupon took off the sump,
and, holding a tin of oil up to
the pump, he lay under the car
while Mrs. Tarrant pulled out
the self-starter. After half an
hour of this, he announced that
No. 3 bearing was the culprit.
He emerged, his face covered
with oil. “Spurts like a geyser,”
he announced gleefully. “Now
we know where we are. It
won’t be long now. I’ll just
have to file that slipper down.
That’s all there is to it. Then
we’ll try her out again.”
What with filing and experi-
menting, filing and experiment-
ing, all of Friday passed
away. Wearily Mrs. Tarrant
listened to her husband’s happy
whistling and to the little boy’s
shrieks of joy as he puddled in
the grease and played with the
spanners. “How cam they be
so happy!” she wondered.
Then her husband cried out,
“I think that’s got her. I’ll slap
it together now, and we can try
her out tomorrow. How’d you
like a picnic?”
She answered peevishly, “At
the moment I don’t care if I
never see the rotten car again.
I’ve had the car. It makes
me furious. There are the
Thatchers all packed-up and
setting off tomorrow and you
talk of a —a —picnic!”
“Please yourself,” he said
vaguely, obviously still thinking
of the bearings. “If you don’t
feel like a picnic, Jockie and I’ll
take her for a spin.”
WHEN the time came, she
packed a luncheon-basket.
As they set out she gave no sign
that she had noticed the activity
up at Thatcher’s ; but the gaze
she directed on the road was
limpid with an unhappy frustra-
tion. The news that the oil-
pressure was stabilised brought
forth a grumbled response. “If
it’s as high as my blood-pressure
you should be delighted.”
“Poor old Mum,” said Jock to
the little boy. “She’s had her
nose put out of joint by the
Thatchers.” Then after a
moment he said seriously,
“Don’t you worry, kiddo, we’ll
catch up with them and pass
them. What about a little trip
to Orange? How’d you like to
see* Orange? We might get to
Dubbo. Of course we’ll have to
take her gently for a while.”
She turned a hopeful face to
him. “Oh, darling, do you
really think we could —I mean
go for a little trip. I suppose a
week’s better than nothing.”
“No reason we shouldn’t, now
she’s O.K. I might have to
check over the bearings again
later on, just to make sure
they’re all getting enough. But
I can do that when we get back
from the trip. We’ll have a bite
of lunch out at the Weir, eh?
and then we can get back early
and you can pack a few things
and we’ll hop-off first thing
tomorrow morning.”
When they came to the weir,
Jock pulled the car off the road
on to a grassy platform. “We’ll
leave <Jher here,” he said. “She
won’t be in the way of the
traffic, and it’ll be easy to start
her off. The battery’s pretty
low. I’ll nick over and put it
on the quick-charger this arvo
while you’re packing.”
“But you will chock the
wheels, won’t you? Oh, I don’t
like this place. Just look at
that hill —and the drop at the
side.”
“Now, don’t fuss. She’s
against the white post. She’s in
gear. If by some miracle she
does move off she’ll go across
the road into the bank.”
“I’ll chock her wheels, all the
same. Otherwise I won’t enjoy
my lunch.”
They were happily boiling the
billy on the stony bank above
the road when Jock said,
“Listen!” They listened. “Ah,
I thought so. Thatcher’s
bomb.”
The three of them stood look-
ing down on to the road as the
car rounded the bend and
started down the hill. “Hoy!”
they called; but there was no
reply from the Thatchers
because just then there was a
horrible sound, a suspicion of
smoke and the pungency of
molten metal spilled into the air.
“Christopher! His second-
gear’s gone!” ejaculated Jock,
laughter cut off abruptly as the
Thatcher car swerved in its
downward plunge. “And his
steering-rod! ”
TT all happened in a few
A seconds. The Thatcher car,
glancing the front mudguard of
the Tarrant “Tadpole,” was
deflected from its suicidal
course and ran towards the high
stony bank on the other side.
The wide watertable decreased
its speed, and a couple of
boulders buffered its impact
against the bank. There was
the tintinnabulation of shatter-
ing glass as the headlamps
flattened. Then silence.
At last Jock cleared his throat.
“Well, that was a narrow
squeak if ever I saw one.” He
started down the bank, calling
out, “Everyone okay?”
The little boy, pointing at the
“Tadpole” began to cry.
“There, there,” said the
mother, shakily. “It’s only the
mudguard.” In spite of her
concern about the Thatchers
she took a long look at the
“Tadpole” and added slowly,
“Both mudguards—it’s squashed
up against the guard-fence. Oh,
well ”
She picked up the little boy.
“It’ll be quite all right,” she said
soothingly. “Really it will.
Now you come with Mummy
and we’ll see poor little Mary
and Annabelle. Look at their
poor old car.”
The child rubbed his fists in
his eyes and, still sniffling,
looked at the Thatchers’ car.
After a moment his eyes
brightened and, licking his lips,
he asked with increasing excite-
ment, “Can we have it in our
yard now, Mummy? Can we
have it to play with?”
Mrs. Tarrant’s eyebrows
lowered. She did not answer.


rjJ^iTUMUFEASSDfIj^T
" r «r
1954 ANNUAL REPORT
SPECIAL FEATURES
NEW POLICIES ISSUED
£65,007,804
PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS
£6,862,159
TOTAL FUNDS
£93,805,171
BONUS RATE MAINTAINED
PURELY MUTUAL • NO SHAREHOLDERS
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
No hiding place down
there
By Colin Mcenn
NEVER approach a tele-
printer emotionally.
A foot or so of paper
stuck out from the top
of the machine. There were
four lines of “R U There Mel-
bourne?” then an imperative
“Pse Acknowledge” and finally
a garbled mass of figures and
letters.
The theme of it was: “We
have your story on the bushfire.
It is good up to a point. But
there is nothing in it about
Copeton. Afternoon papers
have stories of big stock-losses
there. We have not received
this yet. Assume you are send-
ing it. News-editor.”
A good news-editor, too, but
when he played the teleprinter
he struck many clinkers, and he
was a complete dud at it when
upset.
Normally the rage behind the
jumble of print would have
upset Hogan, for he was a con-
scientious reporter. Two hours
before, coolly sober, he would
have frowned and carefully
drafted the right answer before
sending it. But now he
chuckled. “Bloody old fool
doesn’t know half of it,” he
muttered.
He pressed the key and the
teleprinter jumped into life with
a clatter. Hogan struck an
occasional bung key himself as
he sent the office up in Sydney
a memo, to say that George
Montgomery had placed a
magazine of undeveloped nega-
tives of the fire on the 4.30 p.m.
plane, and that George wanted
the magazine back by the morn-
ing plane in case he needed it.
To the news-editor he typed
that he would be sending a
story about Copeton when he
had written it. He waited and
the reply came “Reed. OK.”
The teleprinter lapsed into quiet
humming.
It left Hogan to his thoughts.
He pulled his typewriter across
the table and put in some paper
and lit a cigarette. The story of
Copeton was pretty straight-
forward. There were quotes
from the farmers and a few
descriptive points which would
bring it into life —the grapevine
burnt off the wall of the cottage
that was saved, the windscreen
of the firetruck cracked by heat,
the other truck pinned by a
burning log, the firefighters with
the bandaged arms —it would
nearly write itself.
It would probably have to.
The beer made him drowsy.
When Hogan started typing it
came very slowly for a while,
but then it began falling into
place. When he finished He
took his copy across to the tele-
printer. He waited for a while
before sending. A smile came
over his face. He was thinking
of George Montgomery.
A couple of hours before the
thought of George gave Hogan
no smile. Sober, Hogan could
have nearly killed him. But
now he was searching his tact
for a way to tell George on the
phone that all was well and not
to worry. A couple of hours
before Hogan had just put down
the phone after a long trunk-
line session with Copeton. He
had sat looking up into space,
thinking hard things about
George. The door had opened.
ARTHUR REID had come
into the office. He worked
for another paper. He was not
working, but had come in to
pick up some mail.
“How was the fire?” he had
asked.
Hogan told him about it and
then asked him if he had had
much to do with George Mont-
gomery personally.
Arthur Reid had been there
for 20 years. Hogan had been
there for scarcely one, and Reid
knew most things. Hogan
asked him if he had ever found
George hard to get on with, or
if he had found him liable to
suddenly balk and refuse to do
a job for no good reason.
Arthur Reid had shaken his
head and had asked Hogan what
had happened.
Hogan said he thought there
were two things that might have
explained it: that George had
driven him to the fire in his
own car, a just-post-war model
on which he had lavished so
much affection that it looked
brand-new; that George had
brought his wife with him on
the trip. Either of these points,
Hogan argued, might have
explained George’s flat refusal
to go a bit further into the fire-
country. George might not
have wanted to get his car burnt,
or his wife.
But contradicting that line of
thought was the fact that where
Hogan had wanted him to go
was no more tricky than where
George had already been.
George had been quiet all along
the trip, and he was a talkative
man by nature.
It was the first reasonably
long trip Hogan had made with
George. He knew, of course,
that George always took his
wife. He did not know that a
wife could be as dutiful as Mrs.
Montgomery. She sat beside
George in the front seat. Hogan
sat in the back, leaning forward,
resting his arms on the seat-
back, talking to them. They
had driven about one-mile when
George said, “Cigarette, dear.”
Mrs. Montgomery reached
into the glove-box, took out a
packet of cigarettes, placed one
in George’s mouth and lit it for
him, and then offered Hogan one
and took one herself. This
happened twice as they drove
along and then George varied
it with “Water, dear.”
The water was in an Army
water-bottle in a box on the
floor between them. As the trip
went on Hogan discovered that
this box also contained sweet
cream-biscuits, aspirins, sun-
glasses, a nut-loaf, knife and
butter, and a thermos-flask of
coffee. George found need for
them all in the 50 miles between
Melbourne and the fire.
They had driven the last bit
through smouldering scrub, but
the roadway was clear. They
came to a point where they
could see the firefighters work-
ing round a homestead set well
back from the road, and George
and Hogan had left the car.
George had taken his pictures
while Hogan interviewed some
of the men. Then they had
both walked back to the car,
and that was when the trouble
started.
HOGAN had said to George:
“I think we’d better go on
to Copeton. From what they
said there’d be a good story
there. The road’s open, and it’s
not that far.”
“Sorry, no,” George had
replied. “I’ll go anywhere you
like, but I’m not going to Cope-
ton. I can’t explain it. It’s
personal.”
Hogan had not known what
to say to this. Mrs. Mont-
gomery and George had both
sat quiet, looking ahead of them.
Smoke rolled around outside,
but inside that car it had been
frigid. Hogan felt almost as if
he had committed a blunder,
and he was annoyed, too.
George was quite serious. The
tone of his voice said that. At
length Hogan had said: “Well,
we’d better go back. I’ll pick
it up by phone.”
George had taken off for
Melbourne again, adding a
cloud of dust to the smoke-fog.
It had been a miserable trip and
conversation died several times
on the way . . .
“It was as if he had decided
for himself before he started
out that he would go just so far
and no further,” Hogan said.
He noticed Arthur Reid was
smiling.
“I don’t think you’re far
wrong at that,” said Arthur.
“Well, what about it?” Hogan
asked. “We could have missed
a bloody good story or pictures.
What do you do with a man like
that? He might bail you up on
any job and say he won’t go
further and when you ask him
why, tells you it’s personal.
What are you to do?”
“Come over to the pub,” said
Arthur. “I’ll tell you about
George and Copeton.”
On the way across to The
Widow’s Arthur Reid said:
“George’s a good photographer.
He’s very handy at times. Hang
on to him. He’s a fusspot, a
hell of a fusspot. But he’s solid.
It was just bad luck the fire
being where it was and you
wanting to go where you did.”
Arthur Reid paid for the first
beer.
IT seemed that Copeton was
not a town or even a village,
but just a place on the map. A
road ran up through its centre
with a few scattered trees along
it. Behind them were green-
and-chocolate paddocks, ending
abruptly a long way out from
the road in heavy timber. Close
in, up on a cleared hill, was a
homestead. Near the road,
according to the farmers there,
the place was “improved.”
In the mind of George Mont-
gomery it could hardly have
been worse. Yet. although
George might damn the place
until its cows came home, the
farmers would love him. He
had given them a legend.
It was spring, to make matters
worse.
George had fussed con-
scientiously in his hypo, in the
city for 11 months. A freelance
press-photographer is somewhat
of a rarity, and George’s hours
were peculiar. They depended
on the photographers of various
newspapers becoming gummed-
up with work and unable to
handle more. George had a
few contacts with the trade-
magazines, too. It had been a
good year.
George was careful with his
money. The holiday came
closer and the figures added-up.
He and his wife would be able
to get a caravan and just roll
along, pulling up here and
there, spending the nights where
they felt like, seeing the sun
come up. Mrs. Montgomery
suggested that she should get
a licence to drive the car so
that she could give him an
occasional rest. After serious
consideration, George agreed.
The evening before he started
on the holiday, George took her
along to the caravan-park. They
knew what they wanted. Com-
fort. If it had been possible to
have put their own little cottage
on wheels and tow it along it
would probably have suited
them down to the ground.
The man at the caravan-park
had what they wanted. It was
a bit weighty, but he assured
George that the car would not
notice it. It contained bunks
and a dinette and a stove which
worked off a gas-cylinder. It
even had a shower.
Off they went for three weeks
and four days. Although
George was on holidays, he was
not quite able to forget his work.
A freelance would be unwise to
let everything slip. So here and
there along the route George
put in a phone-call. There was
nothing doing until three days
before the end of his holiday.
Then a paper suddenly wanted
him back as soon as he could
get there. It was for a week’s
work at the Show. They would
be short-handed there.
Near the end of his holiday
George was running short of
cash. A full week’s freelancing
with overtime money into the
bargain was good. It meant a
long drive, though, if he was to
be there on time. He told them
he would be there for sure.
Mrs. Montgomery slept while
George drove through the night.
In the weak light of early morn-
ing she found they still had
about 70 miles to go, but they
would be in plenty of time.
George, by then, was in
pretty poor shape. Sleepy-
eyed, he huddled over the
wheel. The car made a little
swerve occasionally when he
propped himself back against
the seat. It seems that at this
stage Mrs. Montgomery had
made a suggestion to George.
What about if she drove for
a little. George could get out
and have a shower in the cara-
van. He had not let her have
a drive yet on the trip. She
would only drive slowly. The
shower would freshen him up.
And they would still be mov-
ing. Wasn’t that what she had
got her licence for? So that
she could give him a rest from
driving.
George must have grumbled
for a while before he had
pulled-up. He got out and
walked back and opened the
door at the side of the caravan.
He called out to his wife that
all was well, but to keep well
over to the left. He closed the
door behind him as they moved
off. This was about five miles
north of Copeton.
The shower flowed and the
tyres spun. George, it appears,
was reaching for his towel when
his wife made the turn into
Copeton.
Her inside front wheel found
the soft edge. She righted the
car quickly, too quickly, and
drove on. Her twist of the
wheel sent a whipping action
through the caravan’s coupling.
George, slightly off-balance,
caught the full force of it. He
fell backwards. His shoulders
hit the door. It flew open and
he thudded down on the road
on the flat of his back.
He was on his feet, running,
calling her to stop, and she was
giving her all to the job of
steering and travelling at a level
25 m.p.h. As George ran the
back of the caravan grew
smaller and smaller. It finally
disappeared over a rise in the
road. He stood panting. And
then , he realised that he had not
even brought a face-cloth with
him.
GEORGE glistened white on
the front of his body, still
wet from the shower. Most of
his back was damp red-earth
color from the road, with some
patches of gravel-rash.
There was no one in sight.
There was no cave to crawl into,
no log to hide under —only a
few scattered trees along the
road, and they were thin trees
and he was a thick man. But
he ran off the road to one of
the trees and stood behind it.
He looked about and near by
he saw a couple of stalks of
bracken-fern still green, missed
by the fern-hook which had
levelled the rest. He plucked
the ferns.
George’s eyes ranged over the
paddocks and came to rest on
(Continued on next page)


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices: •
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
KllV mom SAFE!
SANDERS!
Correspondence. Invoice*,
statements, etc.. Died tn the
‘'Sander*'" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —Of
any other period.
Price* tntf f»*-
Cber ißfonaaUMl
»po» applicative
Jackson & O’Suluvan Pty. Lm.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Ftj. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Lta
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
the only visible homestead, on
the top of the hill near the road.
He looked at the two wires lead-
ing up to it from the telegraph-
poles. Holding the ferns
strategically in the manner of a
fan-dancer, he left the shelter
of the tree and crossed the road.
Bindies in the grass hurt his feet
and he quickly moved into one
of the twin car-tracks winding
up the hill.
As he climbed, George prob-
ably worked out in his mind
what he would say. And as he
went over it, it probably sounded
ridiculous. It is likely that he
finally decided on something
like “There has been an acci-
dent. May I use your phone?”
At least it would have been a
sound opening and he could have
filled in the details later when
the people had given him some-
thing to wear.
George avoided the front
door. He turned the corner
with the car-tracks around to
the back of the house. A woman
stood in his path with a dipper
in her hand. Her mouth hung
open and her eyes stared wide.
She dropped the dipper and
clawed her blue-spotted dress
around her. Then she flung
back her head and screamed.
George went into reverse
without a word and backed
around the corner of the house
again. As he turned and started
his run down the hill he was
conscious of a door banging
and windows coming down.
George galloped back down the
hill. To hell with the bindies.
As he ran he realised that he
was talking aloud to himself.
That gave him another worry.
He ran across the road and
behind the tree again.
It appears that some time
passed before George heard the
sound of a car. It was coming
the way the caravan had come.
If it had women in it he would
lie low.
There was no woman. There
were three men and a pointer-
dog in an open ancient
Chevrolet.
George leaped out into the
centre of the road. His cover,
the ferns, he waved above his
head. The driver, in his shock,
kicked the brake, and the tyres
squealed.
George lowered the ferns and
stood where he was, telling
what had happened. When he
finished a kookaburra was
somewhere chuckling through
the silence.
TTHE driver spoke at last. He
told George to get in the
back with the pointer. George
was urged not to worry. Every-
thing would be all right. There
was a sugar-bag in the back.
He was told he could toss the
pumpkin from it on to the
floor, and the bag would give
him some cover. The driver
assured George that they would
get him there.
They drove off and the three
men in front began talking.
Every time George said any-
thing, told them how grateful
he was, they would nod without
looking back. There would be a
period of pained silence.
They came to a town, a fairly
large one, and George crouched
down in the seat with his fore-
head planted against the
pointer’s ribs. They drove
straight along a very smooth
roadway, which George took
correctly to be the main street,
and then they turned to the left
and came to a halt.
The driver told George to
keep down for a bit. He wanted
to see a man who might be able
to help. In a few minutes
George was looking up into the
face of a uniformed police-
constable. The constable held a
raincoat. He tossed this to
George and told him, rather
gruffly George thought, to put
it on, to get out and come with
him.
As George stepped out of the
car the driver was telling the
constable how they had found
him “near Miss Edgell’s place.”
The constable nodded and said
he knew about it. This very
moment when they arrived he
had been about to climb on to
his cycle and side-car. Miss
Edgell, it must be recorded, had
apparently thought carefully
over the whole matter and at
length between the time she had
slammed the door behind her
and when she had finally decided
on the police.
The constable wanted the
driver to make a statement, but
the driver had a lot of things to
do. Would it be all right if he
made a statement on his way
back in the afternoon? The
constable said it would. They
would need it.
TT had by then occurred to
George that things were
being taken not in the spirit of
the actual facts. He started
telling the constable this as they
passed through the door of the
station, but the constable asked
him to be quiet. The door
closed and the constable took
George to a long counter behind
which sat the station-sergeant,
a serious-looking man with
white hair and a very sunburned
face.
The sergeant asked George if
he was feeling hot. George said
no. They should arrange to
stop his wife. She would
corroborate everything he said.
The sergeant said they would
take a statement from him first,
and the constable, whose name
turned out to be Claude opened
his notebook at a new page and
asked George his full name,
address, age and occupation, and
then the sergeant asked George
to start at the start and end at
the end and to take it slowly
because the constable did not
have shorthand.
When George had finished, the
sergeant looked at the constable
and said to “put him in the cell,
Claude.”
There would possibly be
serious charges later . . . the
clang of the door . . . semi-
darkness . . . the sound of the
constable’s boots retreating . . .
the sergeant was speaking . . .
“they” always had a plausible
story ... it was typical of
“them” to appear in front of a
woman or to jump out into the
middle of a road unexpectedly
. . . Miss Edgell could be
phoned and asked to drive in,
for there was no need for her
to worry now . . . Claude would
have to ride out, though, and
look for the man’s clothes,
because “they” always hid them
very carefully ... the sergeant
would ring up the station at
Chester ... the faint chance
that there was anything in what
the man had said ... the cara-
van was large and very notice-
able . . . they wouldn’t have
missed it at Chester . . . what
about a cup of tea?
George heard the sound of a
primus-stove being pumped and
its v roar.
And then the phone rang. The
sergeant answered it. He was
quiet for a while and then said
to hang on a minute. Claude
was told to drop his tea and go
and let “him” out and to race
out and find a pair of trousers.
“His” wife, it seemed, had
found herself minus a husband
shortly after motoring through
Chester. She was at their
station now in a terrible state.
The sergeant was telling his
counterpart at Chester that all
was well when George
re-appeared in the raincoat.
The sergeant put down the
phone and quietly asked George
if he took milk and sugar.
Claude went out to find some
pants.
AS they parted outside the
hotel, Arthur Reid again
urged that Hogan should never
let on to George that he knew.
George had told him as a friend
of many years, and then in a
strain of great confidence.
Hogan had gone back to his
office and found that two hours
had passed quickly, and had
noticed the hostile signals on the
teleprinter. Hogan wrote his
story on Copeton, marked it
“add fires,” and teleprinted it.
Then he picked up the phone
and dialled.
“Hullo, George,” he said.
The, familiar voice, still with
its undertone of apology, came
through the earpiece.
“I don’t suppose you’ll be
wanting me tomorrow if the
fires are still on,” George said.
“I’ve been wondering what you
told them.”
“I told them a big log was
across the road and we couldn t
get through,” said Hogan. “I
got a yarn by phone, George.
“But we didn’t have any
pictures to go with it.”
“Your others would be good
enough,” Hogan told him. I
want you tomorrow if the fires
are still on.”
“Look, I’m sorry,” George
said, “but I still won’t go to
Copeton.”
“That’s all right, George. The
log can still be there. Don’t
worry about it.”
Hogan said good-bye and
hung up. He thought of
George.
“Don’t worry!” George
would be sitting up in a cleft
stick all night.
Pte. ali Baba
THERE’S a medley of people
in the camp area. You find
the busy Chinese clerks
pounding their typewriters,
smiling and trying to forget years
of humiliation. Then there are
coolies wearing wide-brimmed
straw hats, clad in singlets, or
torn shirts and invariable under-
pants. They are carting water
from the well to the “belly tanks”
which serve as a means of
storage for our “showers.”
They toil, digging the earth,
with the reluctance of all these
islanders, chatting gaily and
laughing at everything, with a
queer sense of humor, illustrated
the other day when one of them
stumbled and cut his foot on a
piece of corrugated-iron. The
others surrounded him pointing
to his wound, laughing fit to kill.
The native police-boys salute
everyone passing, irrespective of
rank. In their eyes everyone
who wore the Digger uniform
was more than an officer —he
was a liberator. They, too, wear
the slouch-hat, minus our mili-
tary emblem; “Bombay
bloomers” —shorts which could
accommodate three so slim and
thin-legged—khaki shirts, mili-
tary boots, long socks and
gaiters.
We are trying to make conver-
sation, using the few Malayan
words we know, but mostly
gesticulating. Some of them
reply in perfect English that
there’s no use getting worried —
they know their jobs, just as well
as we’re supposed to know ours.
Besides the water-carriers,
police-boys and clerks, there are
some coolies on “roving commis-
sions” gathering the slender
branches of coconut-palms and
the copra which time and again
smashes downward, threatening
victims below.
For all this colored mass of
humanity there is our mess-hut,
a half-open shed, erected from
a mixture of bamboo rods, palm-
leaves, corrugated-iron and more
civilised materials. Only four
people are entitled to loiter there,
or work around the mess —the
Capitan, Sunday, Monday and
Ali Baba.
There’s not much story to the
Capitan, who in his younger days
lived on a barge trading in the
China Sea, or to Sunday or
Monday. Ali Baba, however, is
close to our hearts, and has a
story of his own.
C|MALL, thin, haggard, with
large melancholy eyes, he
stands. pouring tea, always
smiling in a restrained sort of
way. A lonely Muslim.
“I wonder,” I ask Curly
Morton, one among the first
landing-group on this island,
“why Ali Baba behaves more
reservedly than other natives?
He seems friendly enough.”
“Well, I’ll tell you,” Curly
answers, “because I know his
story. I was one of the first to
meet him, and I’m grateful to
him, too. He’s done a grand
job here, and saved some lives
in his insignificant way. It was
just after we established our
beachhead and the first patrols
penetrated inland. The boy came
up, terribly afraid, saying all the
time, ‘Orang Jepun’ in an
imploring tone, and pointing to
the bush. None of us paid any
attention.
“ ‘Go away! ’ Billy Hunter,
known as ‘the Judge,’ told
him gently but firmly. ‘This is
war, boy, and you might get
hurt.’
“But Ali kept repeating
‘Orang Jepun,’ and stood in our
path. We pushed him aside.
He was crying by then, tears
running down his cheeks,
sobbing so violently that it made
me stop.
“ ‘Maybe,’ I said to ‘the Judge,’
‘he’s warning us. Most of the
natives are on our side.’
“ ‘Or maybe it’s a trap,’ ‘the
Judge’ remarked; and we stood
their idling for a few minutes.
“Sergeant Aldrich in charge
called out wanting to know what
was the matter, and Ali ran up
to him; he pointed to his three
stripes, put his hands together,
praying, imploring, then started
to gabble in Malay. Sergeant
Aldrich had studied the language
and asked him to talk slower.
He understood Ali all right.
‘“You bloody fools!’ he
turned to us. ‘The Nips have set
a trap, and this boy wants to
show us how to get the rats by
surprise.’
“ ‘Maybe you’re right; all the
same, we can’t listen to a
stranger,’ said ‘the Judge’ doubt-
fully. But I sided with Ali.
Ali spoke the truth and we
avoided the Nips’ trap. None of
the mud-colored monkeys
escaped.
“Then Ali told Sergeant
Aldrich the Japs had killed his
parents; he’d escaped from
Brunei in a native canoe. While
he was telling his tragic tale
there was a distorted grin on
his face. ‘He’s smiling and
hating at the same time,’ I
thought, puzzled, for it was the
first time I’d had a close-up of
Orientals. “What’s his age?’ I
asked Sergeant Aldrich. ‘Twenty,’
he replied.
“In a crude fashion we adopted
Ali. He brought Sunday and
Monday along, and now they’re
a part of the setting.”
Ali already mutters a few
words in English, proudly dis-
playing his knowledge on every
occasion.
“Belanda” (“Dutch” in
Msiayan), he informs us, “good.
Engliz good. Australia . . .
bloody good.”
There is a wide childish grin
on his face, without the hatred
Curly Morton had seen so clearly
in his eyes.
“Well, what do you say to
this native tea-merchant?” re-
marks Pte. Furphy, deeply
touched and flattered by Ali’s
statement. “If he keeps it up,
before we leave he’ll be a
dinkum Aussie and then we’ll
have to take him with us.”
Ali Baba listens attentively,
grinning from ear to ear. He
seems to understand Pte.
Furphy’s commendation.
“Bagoos, bunya bagoos,” he
says, which means good, very
good, in his tongue. “Me good
Australian.”
EVERYONE tries to please
Ali Baba, and now and
again on the quiet we pass him
a shirt, socks, anything to replen-
ish his meagre wardrobe. He
was almost stark naked when
he first met Australians, appear-
ing round the mess in shorts and
nothing else. But day by day his
wardrobe increases, which makes
him more than happy.
“If this goes on, the litth
blighter’ll be better dressed than
meself!” declares Pte. Furphy.
The only time I see Ali
uncomfortable is when Sgt.-
Major Titch, the divine ruler of
the Q.M. Store, produces a pair
of boots which are not on the
inventory, and gives them to
him. Ali tries them on and
walks, watching those new boots
as if they were a miracle. But
next morning there’s a hunted
look about him and the boots
are put aside while he pours out
the tea.
(i Continued on page 30)
By Stephen
Kelen


Electroplating the Lily
Secrets of the Shine You Buy
By GRAHAM PHILLIPS
MOST of us spend a lot
of money on electro-
plating. We spend it
indirectly; but it’s we
who ultimately pay for the shine
on toasters, cars, pins and door-
knobs. The shine can account
for quite a slice of your bill for
a thing: sometimes more than
half.
Because it’s often the shine
that sells ’em, chrome-plate is
creeping on to more and more
of the goods we buy. On every
batch of new cars we find that
the makers, after dredging their
brains for a year, have discov-
ered yet another place to slap on
more chrome. As a source of in-
come to the plating-trade the
man who invented shiny bumper-
bars must rank second only to
inventors of the car itself.
Some U.S. cars are now
sprouting bumper-bars to pro-
tect the bumper-bars. Radiator-
grills are merely a sort of
chrome-plated false nose. By
adding useless inches to a car’s
length they also add to parking-
puzzles. To get a grill or
bumper-bar replated costs from
about £8; if you’re in the
Jaguar-bracket, far more.
This trend is echoed within
our homes. It is very pleasant
and cheerful, within limits. But
when fal-lals are added to an
article for the sole purpose of
plating them it surely is carry-
ing things much too far.
The chrome dolling-up of
radiator - grills is expensively
aped by most unlikely objects.
For instance, I was recently
foolhardy enough to offer to fix
a friend’s ailing electric-bath-
heater. Humiliation followed.
But before the electrician came
I did make one discovery.
Though outwardly the heater
was a shiny, grand affair, the
working-parts lurked in a china
thing no bigger than a milk-jug.
This milk-jug, containing the
bathheater’s essentials, was
entombed in its pricy-looking
chromium sepulchre merely for
the sake of eye- and sales-
appeal.
Industrious housewives are
always destroying chrome-
plate by polishing it. Nobody
troubles to warn them off, since
their misdirected elbow-grease
boosts replacement-sales and
replating-work. On a bright-
chrome item, which is the kind
you find in the house, the
chrome - layer is exceedingly
thin. Average thickness is
0.00002 of an inch, if you can
call that a thickness. Anyhow,
it offers protection enough
against almost anything except
industrious housewives.
Don’t polish chrome-work at
all; not even gently. It will add
years to the life of chrome-
plated goods if they are merely
washed in warm soap-and-
water, and not too often at that.
The hot, wet, salty air of our
coastal towns and cities —Sydney
in particular —is always doing
its best to claw a way through
any flaws in chromium. It has
only to make a single pinpoint
entry and the whole job will
turn leprous in no time.
A thin smear of vaseline gives
protection; but, even though
one knows this, it is strangely
hard to remember to apply it.
It is, in any case, not practicable
with things that are constantly
handled, much less with the
more tropical domestic appli-
ances, such as toasters, radiators
and irons.
Miss Dorothy Sayers once
wrote a story about a man who
murdered his wife, electroplated
her all over, and had her set
up as a statue at the head of
the staircase. This possibly is
one of those rare cases of fiction
being stranger than truth.
Nonetheless, platers do plate a
remarkable diversity of objects.
A jockey may bring in his
spurs: “Make a job of ’em and
I’ll give you a good thing for
next week.” Progressive old
ladies arrive with heirlooms.
Masons bring their secret para-
phernalia to be glamorised,
motor-cyclists their fetishes.
Policemen’s buttons are more
hazardous. One plater under-
took a set, dropping the fee
somewhat in view of the client’s
occupation. (Plating - shops
handle dangerous materials, and
it’s nearly impossible not to be
always breaking some by-law
or other.) Now, a policeman's
buttons are hollow, with a little
ring at the back for sewing them
on. During the plating-ritual
acid seeped into them. After the
policeman’s wife had sewn them
back on, it seeped out again.
One by one the buttons dropped
off, leaving nasty brown-ringed
holes behind them.
However, chrome-plating has
more down-to-earth uses than
bedizening our police-officers
and piretti f y i ng electric-toasters,
while Qne it does add
the ’ CQSt of many things, in
anQther by effecting economies
jndu g try? it helps reduce the
- e of ma goods we buy
chrome is able to effect such
economies because it is not only
but toug h. Like gold, it
be h aves as a “noble” metal: it
resists corros } on f rom the air,
tums a co id-shoulder towards
mQSt kinds of chemical attack,
fiut gQ j d - a so f ty D f a me tal
compared with chrome. For,
bes j des having the chemical
stab j|j t y of gold, chrome is also
extreme j y hard. In its union
of decorat j ve an d practical roles
. g a meta iii c counterpart of
d j amo nd, which is equally
home on an engagement-ring
on t h e bit of an oil-drill.
ero . and car . e ngine cylinders
are electroplated with chromium,
When the cylinder is worn and
rebore is ne eded, the chrome
st ri ppe d off and a fresh
deposit applied. Of course, a
mucb thicker layer is used
y mere ty decorative
« bri „ bt _ W ork”: sufficient to
restore the cylinder to proper
Vital parts of costly machin-
fte£ wear out long be f or e
machine itself By rebuild-
ing 7hese worn parts with a
hard - chrome deposit, heavy
replacement-costs are post-
P °Our use of plastics is ever-
increasing. In the earlier
stages of their manufacture some
plastics resemble a sticky cake-
mixture. And, again like some
cake-mixtures, they are poured
into moulds from which they
must, when set, be prised loose.
Chrome-plated moulds disgorge
the “cooked” articles faster and
with fewer breakages.
Chroming also prolongs the
life of these moulds. It might
seem that moulds for the com-
paratively soft plastics would
receive nothing like the trounc-
ing taken by dies used for
stamping-out metal; but the
chemicals from which plastics
are brewed are often pretty
fierce in their still-liquid state.
These would soon corrode
unplated metal, whereas chrome
is nearly impervious to such
chemical warfare.
Thus, since these economies
are eventually passed on to con-
sumers, our outlay on chromium
fal-lals is probably more than
counterbalanced by hidden
economies on the less glamorous
side of the electroplating ledger.
In its simplest form the plating
process is easy enough to
follow. The process, that is;
the theory is something else
again. If you feel like getting
abreast G f j tj “electrolysis” is
the heading under which to look
it up. Despite being the
chemistry - class’s arch-dunder-
head, I once passed an examina-
tion which included this subject,
I was enabled to perform this
feat, however, only because the
chemistry bloke made me slog
at the textbook till I could
parrot the whole thing off. I
never really understood it.
So, to hurry back to the
practical side of things, let us
say you want to nickel-plate a
toaster, or, to be more precise,
part of a toaster, for they are
done in bits. We’ll deal with
nickel instead of chrome, partly
because it’s simpler, partly
because all bright-chroming gets
a nickel undercoat anyway.
You have a vat of water, some
bars of nickel, and a source of
electric-current. The current
will be of a much lower voltage
than the costly variety supplied
by the council. You can either
use a transformer to break down
the council’s or install a genera-
tor and make it yourself.
One electric - terminal is
hitched-up to the nickel bars
and the other to the toaster,
The bars are already hanging in
the vat below the water-level,
You then plunge the toaster into
the vat as well. A liquid gap
of^about #
If the current is now switched
on nothing will happen. If,
however, a cocktail of sundry
chemicals is added to the water
in the vat the current will at
once dive through the liquid
from the bars to the toaster.
And that this is happening will
at once be signalled by the
nickel-atoms. They will begin
to desert their parent-bars,
swim through the liquid, and
attach themselves like barnacles
to the toaster. As a side-effect
there’s also some bustling-about
among the molecules of the
liquid in the vat.
Now, this makes plating sound
simple enough to rank with
those household hobbies that
are advertised as being so easy
and profitable: growing mush-
rooms under the house, writing
short-stories or covering lamp-
shades. However, plating is
really very complex, and becom-
ing more so with the discovery
of each new scientific lurk.
In essence, it is a series of
variations on the toaster and the
chromium-bars. The trouble is
that there are a great many
variations. To survive in a com-
petitive trade it is needful to
know most of them.
Possibly the reason why
there’s a shortage of skilled labor
to man the plating-vats lies in
the complexity of the rites
performed there. Some of the
many kinds of jobs met with
demand fiddling differences of
treatment which are all-
important to the finished pro-
duct. A man who has the nous
to get all this at his fingertips
will usually also have the nous
to get himself a job less exacting,
messy and dangerous.
Some of the occupational-
risks a plater faces are unexpect-
edly bizarre. A careless plater
may anaesthetise himself. Drug-
addiction is not unknown to the
trade. And he may burn him-
self with acid, sometimes to
death.
The po lishers, who see the
first ant i ] as t of every job, can
a i so damage themselves, and, if
not in such unexpectedly
dramatic ways as the platers,
they can yet do so pretty
severely.
L et us look into a plating-
sbop First we come to what
j oo k s like a junk-heap. This is
work waiting to be plated,
With a shock we recognise
familiar objects, strangely sordid
without the shiny topdressing,
Prominent in the pile are some
wire ladies. They are in various
s i zes and are dummies for shop-
window displays. They look
without then nrckel
Clumping round the shop are
a number of young men dressed
in rags and gumboots. They’re
not a bit like the young men
pictured in the English plating-
textbook, nearly all of whom
wear serge suits and a very
downcast look.
There are puddles on the con-
crete floor. The young men
cheerfully inform you that these
are puddles of sulphuric-add:
“Don’t tread in it.”
The plating-vats themselves
do not agree with their textbook
photographs. Those in the book
look so streamlined and efficient
that they might almost be part
of the equipment of a space-
ship. But these have the
secondhand look of old Roman
baths that have been covered
with lava for centuries, then dug
up and put to service.
Yellow-brown fumes are
rising from one of the vats, and
we shy nervously away. “Yes.
Mind you don’t smell that. We
should have a chimney over the
vat, of course. But we keep the
windows open. . .”
Most jobs are first polished
with good old-fashioned friction.
Much of the success of the
electroplating depends on this.
There’s precious little chance of
masking flaws with an 0.00002-
inch layer of chrome!
There’s a polishing-lathe at
one end of the room. Its
whirling armory sports an
extraordinary catalogue of
polishing-materials. They range
from calico of various degrees
of coarseness to an elegant
affair of swansdown for polish-
ing gold and silver. In between
are wool, fibre-brushes, and
several kinds of leather. Walrus-
hide is one of the several kinds
of leather.
Various patent goos are
smeared on the wheels to help
with the polishing. To “bring-
up” steel a nasty-sounding
mixture of emery and tallow is
used. The swansdown wheel is
dusted with jeweller’s-rouge.
Jeweller’s-rouge is darker than
that preferred by most ladies.
I suppose plating is a little-
known occupation in the sense
that small boys »don’t tell their
parents they intend going in for
it when they grow up. How
much less known, then, are the
trades which fight each other for
the privilege of supplying the
decoctions and accessories it
calls for? Plating-shop bosses
are much pestered by salesmen
of these.
Sometimes a jagged article
catches on the polishing-wheel.
If the polisher is lucky it flies
through the air away from him ;
if he isn’t lucky it flies back and
hits him. In one place a long
aluminium strip flew right out
the window and embedded itself
in a car on the other side of the
road. The car-owner took some
soothing.
Another time a strip lobbed
on the tramline. The driver
of an approaching tram, saw it
and stopped in time. He
hopped down and went to pick
it up. From the friction of the
polishing-wheel the strip was
well on the way to being red-
hot.
Their occupation makes some
polishers jumpy. Much amuse-
ment is then derived from wait-
ing till such a one is engrossed
in a job, sneaking up behind
him, and dropping a kerosene-
tin.
Some awkward articles —
bicycle-spokes, for example —
are polished in a machine very
like the spin-dryer on today’s
washing-machines. They are
(Continued on page 30)


now
available
at all
hotels
m
w
V
sac*,
&
"**r3
o
a
r
<**
o/>r
eailZ
55.177
The Sfout
that keeps
you fit!
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH ft CO. LIMITED
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—IN Divorce.
TO EDWARD JOHN SCHIFFERLE late
of 2i Clontarf Street, Seaforth. —TAKE
NOTICE that LOUISE ELIZABETH
SCHIFFERLE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2554 of 1954 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is ask-
ing for the exercise of the Court’s dis-
cretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1951 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by tn#
15th August 1955 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from N. D.
THOMAS, ANDERSON & McCREDIE,
Solicitors, of 51 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar,
TO HANNA WALKER of address un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that your hus-
band JOHN HECTOR WALKER has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground of desertion and
alternatively on the ground of five years’
separation If you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file your defence in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court
at Perth within 40 clear days from the
date of this publication In default of
your so doing the cause may proceed
and the Court will pronounce judgment
and make orders against you in your
absence. Dated the 19th day of May,
1955.—G. J. RUSE, Acting Registrar.
NORTHMORE HALE DAVY & LEAKE,
Solicitors, 13 Howard Street, Pertn,
Agents for HUDSON HENNING &
GOODMAN, of Albany, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Sydney horses have won three
of the last four Stradbrokes, and
form suggests a Sydney winner
this time, though the Melbourne
speedster Dicast is well in it
with the Sydney hopes—Fire
Dust, Birdwood and Cragsley.
Dicast is at the top of his form,
Birdwood is better for his Rand-
wick run last week and Cragsley
has fully recovered from a
minor setback.
This Page goes for FIRE
DUST; next DICAST and
BIRDWOOD.
• • • •
It’s hard to get away from
Hellion for the Brisbane Cup,
though Talisman is proved
at the distance, and New
. Zealanders Golden Galleon,
Gold Quality and Finito should
go well in a race rich in staying
talent. Queensland’s main pros-
pects are The Wash and Cool
Gent.
TALISMAN is selected to
win from HELLION and
GOLDEN GALLEON.
Improving on prior displays,
Caranna had a runaway victory
in Rosehill Two-year-old Handi-
cap in which hot favorite Faroe
Bank shaped like a moderate.
At his only race-start he had
won at Canterbury, but the
going might have affected his
prospects. Caranna, raced by
his breeders, A. E. and G. W.
Cohcroft, is a brown colt and a
good-looker by Valognes (imp.)
from Connette by Constant Son
(imp.) from Brunette by Magpie
(imp.). A plunge on Seniority,
having his first run for several
months, put a lot of money into
bookmakers’ bags.
A small coterie of punters was
not pleased with Bruleur’s win
in the Second Parramatta Stakes
at Rosehill, but the colt had
run once previously following a
win at Canterbury, and two wins
from three starts is good form
When beaten into fifth place at
Canterbury on May 14 he met
with checks and g|bt boxed-up in
the field. On Saturday, with a
stronger and more experienced
jockey, D. Weir, he led prac-
tically all the way.
Prince Jambo, a consistent
performer with four wins in his
last six starts —in one of his two
non-wins he was fourth to
Indian Empire at Randwick —is
a brother to Love To All (who
has finished racing), and is
among entrants for the Doomben
Ten Thousand to be run July 2.
The stable didn’t enter him for
the Stradbroke, but if he goes to
Brisbane next month he is likely
to meet some of the Stradbroke
Handicap field. Prince Jambo
had a runaway win in Rosehill
Civic Handicap, six furlongs.
Joy Lad, the hot favorite, had
every show.
• • • •
Meadow Breeze, opening
winner at Moonee Valley in the
First Murray Handicap for two-
year-olds, handled the soft going
well and won comfortably. In
two of three prior starts she had
won at Victorian country fix-
tures, but her form didn’t
impress Valley punters, who let
her run for the books. Trained
at Epsom by O. M. Lynch, for
K. Woodruffe, the filly is a grey
like her sire, Meadow Mist
(imp.), a son of Panorama.
Meadow Mist won half a dozen
races in England.
Old Royal Pentzia, the “iron
horse” of the Victorian Western
District, strolled home in the
Moonee Valley Steeple by 15
lengths from Scarsdale. Boan-
erges was 23 lengths away from
the winner in third-place, just
making it from the only other
runner to complete the course,
Japaddy. These two were equal
favorites.
• • • •
In heavy going Devon Law
added another M.V. Hurdle to
his record, ploughing to the post
with \\ lengths to spare from
Bar Sinister. Challicum was a
weak third. All three are in the
G.N. Hurdle, but Devon Law
is by no means a certain starter.
Jack An win, who won the
Melbourne Cup on Bravo in
1889, was 88 last Sunday. He
lives near Caulfield racecourse
and proposes to have a look at
the two Cups this year.
All courses come alike to the
crack Sydney lightweight Mc-
Growdie. He’s likely to bob up
anywhere, and generally
manages to notch a winner or
two. He went to Ipswich (Q.)
for last Saturday’s Cup fixture
and won the main race on Lucky
Leader as well as the City View
Handicap for two-year-olds on
Sir Ungar. McGrowdie has now
won about 30 cups in various
centres, and has also won most
of the important Australian
races. His ambition is to land
the Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups.
• • • «
Lucky Leader, Ipswich
Cup winner, is in the Brisbane
Cup on Monday, and will carry
7.8, or three pounds less than
he had at Ipswich. Sir Ungar is
a son of Ungar and Florence
Belle by Wise Force. It was the
colt’s second win on the Ipswich
track.
• • • •
Entries have closed for the
Caulfield and the Melbourne
Cups, and the weights will be
out on July 18.
• • • *
Backing a jockey with the pre-
fix “Me” to his name paid divi-
dends at the Ipswich Cup meet-
ing. McGrowdie won two races
(7 to 1 and 9 to 2), McLean won
one at 12 to 1, and McLeod one
at 7to 4. McLeod was also
second on a 5-to-l shot, while
McKenna had a second placing
at 14 to 1. The club should
have engaged a pipe-band!
* * *
Finley’s Air broke his hoodoo
at Sydney’s Harold Park, but
unconvincingly. Five horses,
including the danger, Pay Load,
fell and the chestnut scraped-in
by a neck. Finley’s Air is by
Van Ayr out of Miss Finley,
the dam of one-time speedster
from the Egan stable, All Spirit.
Those anticipating a double
from McKay’s trip East were
surprised, after Pay Load’s mis-
hap, to see Mighty Warrior so
meekly give in. The 13 furlongs
against older horses could have
been too much for the three-
year-old, who only began his
racing career in March. He was
threes-on.
• • • •
Bruce Hall appreciated the
conditions in the Free-For-All
and led throughout the 13£
furlongs for a good win. Jaunty
in his preliminary, he looked
like the Bruce Hall of old —and
raced like him. With the
abundant speed this fellow has
a suggested attempt on Ribands’s'
Harold Park mile-record of
1.58 7/10 has sound backing.
At a Bankstown (N.S.W.) gym-
khana recently he ran the mile
in 2.1 3/5 under poor pace-
making conditions.
• * • •
“Ned”: A report on the fall
in the first trotting-race at
Harold Park on Saturday night
gave a vivid pen-picture of how
a driver “disappeared in a
tangled mass of broken gigs and
screaming horses.” This
appears to be a variation of the
phrase, “women screamed,”
which usually accompanies a
description of any accident. Of
the five neddies in the fall
only one, Belamour, belongs to
the fairer sex. It must have been
her!
The Victorian mare
Apparently followed a double at
Colac with another at the same
course a fortnight later. Up till
the present lightly-raced, the
mare has set the pencils
scribbling her name in the note-
books for the next Melbourne
season.
4- 4-
Collingwood edged into
second-place in the V.F.L.
“four” by coming from behind
to topple Geelong 11.11-10.7.
Down 7.2-3.3 at half-time, with
their little men till then effec-
tively bottled, the Magpies, in a
brilliant third quarter, kicked
three goals in 3min„ and won
by 10 points in a seesawing last
“If used to nearly break my back before I
bought this pram”
quarter. Unbeaten Melbourne,
after its narrow squeak against
South Melbourne on the previ-
ous Saturday, tore mercilessly
into Carlton after an uncertain
start and piled on six goals in
each of the last three quarters
to make it 20.15-9.16. South
played without any -of its
recent dash or cohesion, and
was no match for Essendon,
Mitchell, spearhead for the
Dons, booting nine goals, 13.14-
7.12. St. Kilda was no match
for Footscray, 13.7-4.10, though
it was only in the last quarter
that the Bulldogs ran away with
it; Fitzroy beat North, in a
hard, even battle, 12.16-11.5, and
Hawthorn, outmarked and out-
paced early, went to the front in
the third quarter and hung on
doggedly, to beat Richmond by
two points, 9.8-8.12.
• * •
New South Wales beat the
French Rugby Leaguesters 29-24
at Sydney Cricket Ground, in a
brisk game. The local forwards
tackled poorly at times, but
their game was tighter than the
Frenchmen’s and the N.S.W.
backs, towards the end particu-
larly, swept down the field like
heavy cavalry opposed to the
light variety, to score a total of
seven tries to four. Churchill is
fairly obviously past his peak;
but he is a very safe man as
full-back and his control over
his team can be felt whenever
he takes the ball and runs
downfield.
The total impression of the
Frenchmen on Saturday was of
a number of players with first-
rate football potential, not yet
welded into an international
combination, and not yet at the
peak of condition. They did a
number of brilliant things—
particularly in passing rushes—
and made several silly mistakes.
Winger Ducasse, lock Duple
(who kicked six goals) and cap-
tain and centre Merquey were
outstanding. The French
tackling was weak. For N.S.W.
forwards Bull, Kearney and
Holloway and five-eighth Henry
were outstanding.
* * *
In Sydney Rugby Union
Northern Suburbs surprised
everyone by beating University
12-11, Eastern Suburbs con-
tinued their recent winning run
by beating Eastwood 11-5,
St. George beat Manly 11-6,
Randwick beat Parramatta 32-3
and, in another one-sided game,
Gordon beat Drummoyne 42-3.
• * «
Young Rayner, the first
Queenslander to win the Aus-
tralian Amateur Golf Cham-
pionship since they played in
Norfolk jackets, was accused by
the sporting writers of “one of
the poorest exhibitions in Aus-
tralian championship golf”
against his opponent, another
youngster named Warren, from
Sydney. Yet the two had gone
through a field comprising
players like Bachli, Toogood,
Berwick and a dozen or so more
experienced players. The critics
have got too used to writing
about pros, in exhibition
matches.
* «« *
The crowd that stayed away
from the Leichhardt (Sydney)
scrap for the N.S.W. bantam
championship missed a good
fight. Teddy Rainbow (8.4 T)
fought Peter Ellston (8.6). Rain-
bow, a tall long-reached abo.,
seemed certain to win when a
lusty left hook floored his foe
for a compulsory count in round
one, and Ellston took solid
punishment throughout the first
six rounds. A well-timed right to
the body rocked Rainbow in
round eight, however, and Ell-
ston won that round and the
next four by such a wide margin
that ref. Burns’s draw decision
appeared right. As the winner
was to be matched with Bobby
Sinn for Sinn’s Australian ban-
tam title, Ellston and Rainbow
will probably meet again. An-
other abo., Keith Saunders (10.6),
stopped Tommy Dallas (10.1) in
the fourth of a six-round prelim,
in a fashion that suggested better
fights for Saunders.


a
£
%
a
CTfTnj^TERTUSINTTCTNCERIA
v_
i
106 th annual bepoht
Highlights from the Chairman!s Address delivered by Mr.
Cecil H. Hoskins at Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, on
3rd June, 1955.
RECORD NEW BUSINESS, £124,000,000
“I am happy to report,” said Mr. Hoskins, ‘ that, in
1954, the Society established another new business
record for Australian life offices by writing policies
having sums insured totalling more than £124
million.” Of this amount £ll4 million related to
ordinary business and £lO million represented new
industrial insurance. This is the fourth successive
year in which our new business has topped the £lOO
million mark.
“I should like to emphasise that £123 million of the
new business obtained by the Society was written in
Australia and New Zealand, the balance of about
£IV2 million tjeing transacted in the United King-
dom. Notwithstanding this concentration of business
in Australia and New Zealand, where there is a
combined population of little more than 11 million
people, the Society’s achievements compare favour-
ably with those of the world’s leading life insurance
companies.
RECORD PAYMENTS IN 1954 - £13,000,000
“Generation after generation of Australians and
New Zealanders have come to regard the A.M.P. as
an old established yet virile organisation whose out-
standing record of benefits paid to members is a
splendid augury for continued satisfactory service in
tire future. Last year, the Society paid out benefits
(including bonuses) to the dependants of deceased
policyholders of more than £6 million, and, in
addition, it paid out nearly £7 million to the holders
of endowment insurance policies which had matured.
These benefits have, no doubt, been employed in
many ways but, whatever the use to which they
have been put, there is no doubt that the satis-
factory results of our policies do much to explain
the spectacular growth of the Society’s new business.”
\k
:0
€
ASSURANCES
INCLUDING BONUSES
NOW EXCEED
M NOW EXCEED
itoooooo.ooo
r
Mr. Hoskins continued: —“Since our last Annual Meeting
the Society has achieved an outstanding milestone in its
history and, indeed, in the history of life insurance in this
country. We were recently pleased to be able to announce
that the total insurance (including bonuses) in force on
the Society’s books now exceeds £l,OOO million.”
Largest
in history of
Australian
Life
Assurance
ASSETS EXCEED £300,000,000
“Total assets at the end of 1954 were £298 million,
a rise of over £2l million on the previous year, Since
the close of the year they have passed the £3OO
million mark.
“The Society devoted a very substantial percentage
of its available funds to loans on mortgage in 1954
was a further improvement in the effective rate of
interest earned on the Society’s assurance and
annuity fund, the rate, after deduction of income
and land taxes, increasing from £3/16/11 per cent
to £3/19/4 per cent.”
EXPENSES OF ADMINISTRATION
“It is pleasing to be able to record
a further decrease in the Society’s
expense rate. For ordinary business,
the rate of expense (including
taxes other than income and land
taxes) to premium income fell from
14.69 per cent, (in 1953) to 14.47
per cent, in 1954. For industrial
business, the corresponding rate has
fallen from 25.33 per cent, to 24.75
per cent. Measured as a propor*
tion of the Society’s total income
for the respective classes, the rates
for 1954 would be 10.46 per cent,
for ordinary and 18.33 per cent, for
industrial business.”
STAFF. “With the increasing growth
of our business and many innova-
tions in our procedures, the loyalty
and efficiency of the Society’s staff
is of tremendous importance. I
would like to express, on behalf
of the Principal Board, appreciation
of the splendid work achieved.
Some years ago, the Society adopted
the practice common in many in-
dustries of conducting a Staff
Suggestions Board. The value of
this system to the Society has been
proved time and time again in the
past year, during which the adop-
tion of suggestions made by mem-
bers of the staff has resulted in
material advances in administrative
efficiency. I would like also to pay
tribute to the unremitting efforts
of the Society’s field staff. There
are few parts of Australia and New
Zealand in which A.M.P. repre-
sentatives are not well and favour-
ably known as tried and trusted
counsellors on life insurance
matters.”
SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT
“Several times in recent years I
have taken the opportunity at these
meetings to call attention to the
need in the developing economies
of Australia and New Zealand for
a greater volume of national
saving. This increased saving, sup-
plemented where necessary by in-
vestment from overseas, is required
to match the huge capital require-
ments necessary in the building up
of great industrial enterprises, rural
development, transport and other
essential services and amenities
associated with the high standards
of living which we already enjoy.”
Increased
Bonus Rate
Maintained
Mr. Hoskins concluded with
the observation that 1954 had
been a most successful year
for the Society and its policy-
holders. Expense rates had
been reduced; the yield on the
Society’s funds had been
increased; record new business
had again been attained;
major improvements in
administration had been insti-
tuted; important new buildings
had been completed and the
surplus arising as the result of
the year’s operations was
sufficient to provide rever-
sionary bonuses to policy-
holders at the same high rate
as that granted last year.
—including housing loans.
“It will be recognised that the
investment of funds of the order
of £3OO million so as to achieve
a balance between security for the
ultimate repayment of capital and
obtaining the best possible invest-
ment yield in the meantime con-
stitutes a major administrative
problem. I am pleased to be able
to tell you that, during 1954, there
Australian Mutual Proviuent Society
PRINCIPAL BOARD: Cecil H. Hoskins, Chairman; William A. Mackay, Deputy Chairman; Dr. S. A. Smith;
S. G. Rowe; Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; Samuel Hordern; G. Gordon Russell.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney • General Manager: M. C. Buttfield.


mercantile mutual
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C RnHjß l TcnS hal^?, n 2\« * W ' RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
bfRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. c. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JL E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
How NOT to
love a woman
Says Judy Garland: "Men,
don’t yield your leadership.
(We fight to wear the pants,
but only to make you prove
you’re boss.) Show us we’re
not only the mother of your
children, but your sweetheart,
too. And prove how much you
love us.” Read Judy’s wise
advice to husbands in June
Reader’s Digest.
A wealth of other stimulat-
ing articles in June Reader’s
Digest, including “I was
Monty’s Double,” “She was
dead for 50 minutes,” "Will
machines take your job
away?” Plus an 18-page book
condensation of Anne Morrow
Lindbergh’s "Gift from the
Sea.” On sale now 1/6
all newsagents and bookstalls.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GERMAN PROSPECTS
Communist tactics having
failed to block ratification of
the Paris pacts and the conse-
quent admission of West Ger-
many into the Western European
Union and Nato, the next Soviet
object is to prevent the rearm-
ing of Germany.
The Russian tactics have been
made pretty plain: holding up
the example of an unarmed,
neutral and free Austria, with
the inference to be drawn that
East and West Germany can
achieve freedom and unity in the
same way.
As the following press-
comment indicates, the German
longing for unity is strong
enough to provide the Soviet
with rather fertile soil to work
on:
* * *
“Yorkshire Post ” ; “Ten years
ago the German forces sur-
rendered unconditionally. The
Nazi Reich, which Hitler had
boasted would last 1000 years,
came to an end. The German
Federal Republic, which con-
tains much the greater part of
the German population, now be-
comes a sovereign State. At the
same time it enters the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation and
the Western European Union.
Soon it will begin to raise an
Army of 500,000 men. It is a
dramatic reversal of fortunes,
but not a surprising one.”
* * •
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“Western statesmanship has
taken a tremendous, but calcu-
lated, risk in according complete
sovereignty to the Federal
Republic—the democratic half
of a still-divided Germany.
Reunification is the passionate
desire of all Germans, and we
ourselves [the British] are pledged
to work for it. Against that
eventuality we have written a
blank-cheque.
“Federal Germany, at the
moment of attaining sovereignty,
has freely accepted obligations
towards her Western neighbors.
A united Germany, whose
temper we cannot foretell, would
have the same freedom to renew
or to repudiate these bonds.
“Meanwhile, the Western con-
tribution to this partnership—
a contribution ip some ways
irrevocable—begins now. Ger-
mans will help shape Western
policy and strategy; Germans
will share the military secrets
of Nato ; the West will help to
place in German hands arms
that could not afterwards be
taken away.”
* * •
“Manchester Guardian”
editorial comment: “Ten years
have gone by since the end of
the war; no one could reason-
ably expect that in that time the
traces of the Nazi period would
wholly vanish either in Ger-
many or elsewhere. Those
traces have in fact been ab-
sorbed to a notable extent —
faster, perhaps, than those of
the less dreadful Napoleonic
upheaval. History has been
speeded-up. But, although the
temper of the new German
democracy is moderate, nobody
quite knows what will happen
when Dr. Adenauer goes, or
where the Germans’ very proper
concern for the reunion of their
country might take them.”
* * *
Sebastian Haffner, in Edin-
burgh “Scotsman”: “Even after
the Western Powers had refused
to accept a one-sided German
surrender, the last all-German
head of State, Grand Admiral
Doenitz, declared in a farewell
message to his staff: ‘The
political line we must follow is
very plain. It is clear that we
have to go along with the West-
ern Powers and work with them
in the occupied zones in the
West, for it is only through
working with them that we can
have hopes of later retrieving our
land from the Russians.’
“In this one sentence lies the
root of the West German State,
and of the backing which Dr.
Adenauer’s Western policy later
popularly received.”
* * •
London “New Statesman”:
“It is by no means certain that—
if it becomes a choice for Ger-
many between unity and Nato
—the present Chancellor
[Adenauer] will have the last
word. That is the weakness of
the Western position.”
* * *
London “Daily Express”:
“Every section of the German
people shares a passionate desire
to reunite the two divided halves
of the nation. To achieve this
many would willingly sacrifice
the right to arm. No man can tell
what the Germans will in the
end decide to do. But it is cer-
tain that they will be distracted
by the Austrian Treaty from any
enthusiastic pursuit of the pro-
gramme of rearmament.”
* * •
Walter Lippmann, in New
York “H erald Tribune”:
“Henceforth, and increasingly,
the question is how the Western
Allies are going to protect their
vital European interests as the
Germans and the Soviet Union
assume the initiative in the
negotiation of an eventual peace
treaty.
“This is the developing
situation, and in preparing for
the coming conference with the
Russians we have to bear it in
mind. If the Westerners do not
convince the Germans that they
are able to engage in serious
negotiations pointing toward
German unification, the next
phase will be some kind of direct
negotiation between Bonn and
Moscow. Indeed, it is not at
all improbable that this is the
objective of Soviet diplomacy,
and that Mr. Molotov will not be
at all unhappy if the forthcom-
ing four-Power negotiations
fail.”
* * •
C. L. Sulzberger, in “New
York Times”: “The French,
who displayed extreme reluc-
tance on German rearmament,
are now determined to push it
for economic reasons. They
want to be certain Bonn spends
as much on arms as they do in
order not to gain commercial
advantage from a smaller mili-
tary burden. Conversely, West
Germany’s industrialists are far
from pleased. When Hitler
rearmed 22 years ago he helped
industry and employment out of
a bad slump. But Adenauer has
to superimpose an arms pro-
gramme upon full employment
and a business boom.”
* * *
Geoffrey Barraclough, Pro-
fessor of Medieval History at
the University of Liverpool,
writing in London “Spectator”:
“German reunification is now
the major issue which transcends
and overshadows all others. It is
too easily forgotten, outside
Germany, that Germany does
not exist; it is merely a geo-
graphical expression. But no
German is prepared to accept
permanent partition. The senti-
ment of German unity, deep-
set and primitive, is capable at
any moment of sweeping the
German people in a great out-
burst of irresistible emotion. The
key factor in the next phase,
which has already begun, wall be
the struggle for Germany.”
The same : “What the majority
of Germans would prefer—and
their number increases daily—
is immediate successful
negotiations between the West-
ern Powers and Russia for a
reunited Germany. What they
will not brook is delay, or
failure under any pretext, or
the suspicion that German in-
terests are being subordinated
to the exigencies of American
world policy. If the Western
Allies do not negotiate seriously,
and show themselves ready, if
necessary, for substantial con-
cessions, the Germans will.”
The same: “Germany is on
the march again—but with a dif-
ference. The Wagnerian phase
—London “Daily Mirror *
A LITTLE HONEST WORK WOULD RESTORE OUR
SELF-ESTEEM
is over. This time it is marching,
not to the heady, militant strains
of ‘Siegfried,’ but rather (shall
we say?) to the strident, metallic
clang of Honegger’s ‘Pacific 231.’
It is in their growing economic
power, rather than in military
strength, that Germans put their
trust —in the vaunted German
superiority (still an article of
faith in Germany) in technique,
method and organisation.”
Atoms for Peace
The British election was, as
London “Daily Telegraph”
comments, the first campaign
in which the promise offered by
the development of atomic
energy has played a part. It is
not surprising that candidates
found it far from easy to con-
vey to voters how great that
promise is and what progress has
already been made towards it.
What is needed is visual evi-
dence, presented in a permanent
exhibition where progress can
be recorded step by step.
“Perhaps the opportunity to
prepare something of the kind
will present itself in the effort
now being made to put up a
good show at Geneva in
August.”
This Geneva show—the Inter-
national Conference on the
Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy,
to give it the full title—is to be
held under the auspices of the
United Nations and (comments
New York “Herald Tribune”)
“is attracting increasing and
encouraging interest”:
“Of 84 nations invited, 51
have thus far accepted. Thou-
sands of square feet of space
have been reserved for exhibits
in and near the Palais des
Nations. More than 100,000
scientific papers have been sub-
mitted for presentation by
American scientists, more than
100 apiece by the Russians and
the British. Now it is announced
that an American nuclear-
research-reactor will be shown
in a special building on the
grounds and will be sold to the
Swiss Government at the end
of the session, for research and
the training of scientists.
“This conference is part of the
atoms-for-peace plan put for-
ward by President Eisenhower
in December, 1953. According
to the U.N. resolution authoris-
ing it, the purpose of the con-
ference is ‘to explore means of
developing the peaceful uses of
atomic energy through inter-
national co-operation and, in
particular, to study the develop-
ment of atomic power and to
consider other technical areas
in which international co-
operation might most effectively
be accomplished.’ ”
Also commenting on the
Geneva conference, though
rather less hopefully, “Man-
chester Guardian” opines that
Russian and American promises
to display atomic reactors and
power-stations “do not ensure
that the conference will be told
of the much more important
technical matters that go to the
design and operation of atomic
power-stations” :
“A great deal of effort is
directed to this end in several
different countries, and it is sad
to think of the duplication that
must be taking place; of the
useless designs that are investi-
gated and then rejected by
isolated groups of scientists.
“One must, of course, allow
for economic as well as military
rivalries between nations. But
an attempt to gain or retain
temporary advantages may hold
everyone back.
“There is no doubt that this
isolation goes a long way to
explain the apparent lack of
progress in the industrial appli-
cation of atomic energy in those
countries that did not share in
the war-time development of
bombs.
“We in this country [Britain]
are lucky to have an extensive
programme for the development
of power-stations that will make
a considerable contribution to
our power-resources in the next
20 years. But even in America
there has been some difficulty
in launching a similar pro-
gramme, though this has been
due to the reluctance of private
firms to undertake the risks of
building power-stations when no
prototypes of economic size
were in operation.
“In Western Europe it is not
unjust to say that progress has
been very slow. France appears
to be the most advanced, yet of
the hundred million pounds that
it is planned to spend there in
the next three years a large part
will go towards building the
plant necessary to make fission-
able material. Elsewhere the
story is even more disap-
pointing.
“Of course these gloomy ap-
pearances may be misleading.
It may be that there is a lot
going on behind the security
screens that justifies the high
promise of that period after the
war when it was thought that
the time for bombs had gone.
But as far as the peaceful uses
of atomic energy are concerned
it is time that the screens came
down.”
Top-level Talks
London “Time and Tide” on
“talks at the summit”:
“There appears to be sur-
prisingly little interest in, and
very few ideas about, what
exactly a high-level meeting [be-
tween the U.K., the U.S.A.,
France and Russia] would dis-
cuss, and even less about what
the non-Communist world might
expect to get out of it. There
is little more than a vague as-
sumption that any meeting be-
tween East and West is better
than none.
“If we feel it our duty to de-
stroy a few illusions on this sub-
ject it is only because we believe,
if a meeting takes place, the
Western Powers must go into it
with their eyes wide open and
with a clear idea of their objec-
tives in taking part in it. Other-
wise it might be better that no
meeting take place at all. There
is no magic in meetings in them-
selves.
“One illusion is that the
Soviet Government is pressing
for high-level talks to be held.
All they are doing is to exploit
the desire for talks that pervades
public opinion in the West.
(They do not, of course, have
to pay any attention to public
opinion in their own country
on this or any other subject.) If
appearing to want talks contrib-
utes to the propaganda idea of
Soviet Russia as the Angel of
Peace and the Western Powers
as the warmongers, the Soviet
leaders will strive to give this
impression.
“Another illusion, fostered by
Mr. Molotov’s sudden change of
front on the Austrian question,
is that Soviet foreign policy has
taken a turn for the better and
that the Kremlin is now ‘genu-
inely’ desirous of coming to
terms with the West.
“It is not, unfortunately, pos-
sible for us to see into the minds
and hearts of the men who rule
Russia. We can therefore rely
for our knowledge of their in-
tentions only on their public
pronouncements, which, ever
since Mr. Malenkov retreated
and Marshal Bulganin and Mr.
Molotov came to the fore, have
taken on a more militant and
aggressive tone than at any time
since the war.
“Celebrating the anniversary
of Lenin’s birth, the editor of
‘Pravda’ declared that if war
broke out the Soviet Union
would deliver ‘devastating blows
of such might as would bring


TRAVEL ROYAL
ACROSS THE ATLANTIC
u
L
only 8.0.A.C. offers
Stratooruisers
FIRST AND TOURIST CLASS
Enjoy luxury flying at its best by
8.0.A.C. Stratocruisers between New
York or Montreal and London. These
double-decked Speedbirds fly smoothly
above the weather.
On the “MONARCH” exclusively-
first-class service you relax in deep-
seated ease . . . stroll about . . . meet
friends in lounge and bar . . . enjoy
the finest of wines with delightful
meals. Roomy sleeping berths at
slightly extra charge.
The “CORONET” Tourist service
offers all that is best in low-fare
international air travel.
Incomparable 8.0.A.C. service —no
tips, no extras. t
See your Travel Agent for complete
trip-planning help—no charge.
Book from Sydney to Indonesia, Malaya, Burma, Thailand, Hong Kong,
Japan, Ceylon, India, Pakistan, Middle East, Africa, Europe, Great
Britain, U.S.A., Canada, Central and South America, Bermuda.
FI MM
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.
(8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
A52/AU
the whole rotten edifice of im-
perialism to ruins.’ This may
sound like ‘peace talk’ to some,
but not to us.
“With Mr. Molotov’s retreat
on Austria that problem is
solved and presumably requires
no further discussion. His next
objective is probably to win the
Germans round to a similar
‘neutrality.’ But this is some-
thing to which the Western
Powers, who have only just
succeeded in associating West-
ern Germany with their own de-
fence-plans, cannot possibly
agree. What else? It is when
we ask this question that we find
ourselves beginning to tread on
the Russian toes. The Soviet
leaders know what they want
from us; do we know what we
want from them?
“Unless we are as clear about
our demands and objectives as
the Russians are about theirs,
we run the risk of being hope-
lessly outmanoeuvred. Their ob-
jectives are fairly obvious. Hav-
ing re-established a military bar-
rier outside their own frontiers
in the shape of the satellite States
and Eastern Germany, they are
now intent on creating a second,
neutralist barrier stretching from
Yugoslavia to Scandinavia. Be-
yond the barrier they have the
mass organisations led by the
French and Italian Communists
ready to act as fifth-columns.
“Have the Western Powers a
similar sense of direction? If the
Soviet Government feels entitled
to demand that Austria remain
neutral as the price of her free-
dom, can we not have similar
demands regarding the neutral-
ity of the East European States?
“It is right and proper that
Western plans for a meeting of
East and West should be formu-
lated and co-ordinated in sec-
recy. But it is of the utmost
importance that the peoples of
the Western world should know
at some point what our aims
are. For it is the Communists
n'ho are primarily responsible for
the present state of tension in
the world, and there is much
that we could fairly demand of
them. Those demands, if clearly
stated, would be supported by
the great majority of the free
peoples.”
Japan
At the Japanese elections last
February, Premier Hatoyama’s
party promised, among other
things, to take good care of
Japan’s relations with America
and, at the same time, to en-
courage trade with Communist
China. That has proved a diffi-
cult double to handle, and al-
ready influential Japanese busi-
ness sections have shied away
from deals with China for fear
of queering their pitch with
Uncle Sam.
At the same time, trade with
Communist China doesn’t look
very promising; as London
“Economist” comments, “the
details of the trade-agreement
signed in Tokyo between a
group of Japanese businessmen
and the visiting Chinese trade-
delegation make a cautionary
tale for politicians who talk too
smoothly at election-time”:
“The new agreement, reached
after more than a month of bar-
gaining and several near-break-
downs, leaves the planned level
of trade between the two
countries exactly where it was
in the previous agreement—at
£3O million each way for the
coming year.
“This represents only about 6
per cent, of Japan’s total trade,
and is rather less than the value
of the agreement which Japan
signed, without fanfares or fuss,
a fortnight earlier with the
Nationalist Government on
Formosa.
“Nor is even this volume likely
to be reached in practice. Many
of the things the Chinese want
to import are on the list of em-
bargoed strategic goods, and
they are unwilling to take the
products of Japan’s light-
industry instead. In turn, China’s
industrial commitments and
agricultural troubles make it
fhp thines that
difficult to sp
Japan wan s Tanari e S e
“Mr. Ishibashi, tn rac j e
Mimster of Interna^
estimate , ... - n £ act be
the piann better
tuimie . . ned j ast y ear>
than w a a ’ s P actual imports
when cn quarter
from P been sc heduled.
o w he r£Cent talks j n
headway over
Tokyom^any' nea ;
actions will continue to be paid
actions
until the two"’State banks can
agree about some other formula,
disagreement over which was
one the points on which the
Tokyo discussions nearly
foundered.
“The chief aim of the Chinese
has been to manoeuvre Mr.
Hatoyama’s Government into
giving its official backing to the
compact, as the first step towards
securing Japan’s recognition of
the Peking regime. So far they
have signally failed to do so:
and although Mr. Hatoyama has
incautiously talked about ‘sup-
port and assistance’ for the
agreement, that was probably
only a symptom of his chronic
eagerness to be friendly to every-
body.
“it may be clear to him now
that, for economic as well as
strategic reasons, Japan cannot
expect any impressive increase
in its trade with China.”
The U.S. in Spain
It took over 27 months for
America and Spain to come to
terms providing the U.S. with
bases in Spain, but, the bargain
having been struck, Uncle Sam
is installing himself efficiently,
while Spain, as “U.S. News and
World Report” puts it, regards
the agreement as “only the begin-
ning of Spanish hopes for
economic betterment”:
“A military-construction pro-
gramme costing 700-million
dollars was agreed upon. It
included four big jet-bomber
bases, a 485-mile pipeline to
carry fuel from the seaboard to
those bases, a major naval-base
and -anchorage on the Mediter-
ranean coast and in the Balearic
Islands. The programme is
beginning to move.
“A total of 115-million dol-
lars was allocated for the first
two years’ work. In addition,
Spanish plants are producing
10.8-million dollars’ worth of
munitions under the offshore
procurement programme. U!S.
military assistance is strengthen-
ing the Spanish armed services.
“U.S. military men and
civilian workers have flocked
into the country with their big
payrolls. This means new hous-
ing for them and their families,
schools for their children.
“Much of the construction-
work is sublet to Spanish firms.
Jobs have been made for thou-
sands of Spaniards. Badly
deteriorated railways and road-
networks are being modernised.
Spanish landowners apparently
were glad to provide the 50ft.
right-of-way for the pipeline
at prices fixed by negotiation.
“Spain simultaneously is be-
coming a tourist-Mecca. Some
200,000 Americans visited the
country last year and 250,000 are
expected in 1955.”
Commenting on the value to
America of these bases in Spain,
David Lawrence, in New York
“Herald Tribune,” says it is
necessary to take into account
two possibilities:
“One is that, due to internal
political pressure, some day
neither Britain nor France will
—unless there is a direct attack
on their cities—permit American
airmen to retaliate with atom-
bombs flown from bases on their
soil, even though some Ameri-
can city may have already been
destroyed by bombs.
“The other is that American
airplanes starting from Spanish
bases can carry on strategic air-
missions into the heartland of
the enemy areas and refuel or
come to rest at points in the
eastern Mediterranean and the
Middle East.
“But what is also important
j s that Spain is to our [U.S.]
bases in England what Texas is
to our forward units in Montana
and the Canadian defence-line.
Here in a sunny climate, where
all-year-round operations are
possible, the big supply- and
support-depots of the future will
be available to the American air-
forces operating throughout
Europe »
Red Tactics in Asia
. t t 4 J ,
Despite the threats and alarms
from Asia, a “U.S. News and
World Report” correspondent
in Hong Kong gives it as local
opinion that “the Communist
plans for winning Asia do not
delude| war :
them
nnl .if y than fi B eht in
conquests than a figh m
which aill could l be lost. The
H.S. g
P . . And°tn Com
Denver the bombs And to lo » -
“ tt “ 3 Si, f
President tusennower, 1 o -
mg at Soutn-East Asia a yea
ago, referred to it as a row or
dominoes. .
« » Kn °f,, ' the
wm upact ui
01 i t j d Man Tse
f rom Peking
a t non-Communist Asia, sees
many situations which can be
“ a “ y iven time and pat ience,
to bf tumbled domkoes one
day
“A good part of what is left
f i ndo -China for example
looks forward ’t o elections in
tb summer of 1956 The Com-
munists expect to win them. Two
btde countries within Indo-
China _ La os and Cambodia—
a i readv are up against Com-
munist infiltration.
“Korea the anti-Communist
half of it, is run by an 80-year-
old President, Syngman Rhee,
with no successor in sight. When
he dies, Communists ffiay get a
chance to try, once more, for all
of Korea.
“On Formosa the anti-
Communist soldiers under
Chiang Kai-shek have kept up
their morale, so far, in the hope
of returning to the mainland. If
that prospect fades, they, too,
may look toward Communism
in time .
“Even Japan, the industrial
prize of Asia, looks to South-
East Asia for markets and for
raw materials. If the Com-
mumsts—using patience, not
war-can take over these riches,
Japan might have to do business
with Communists.
“All around the rim of Red
China there are tempting gains
to be made by subversion by m-
filtrat ' on ’ measures short of
wan , Seen fr ° m Pekin S’ thus > th ®
countries of non-Commumst
Asia appear to be worth a few
years patience, of careful
Panning.
Road-Sofety
As “U.S. News and World
Report „ puts “it’ s hard to
believe, but driving is getting
safer”—in other words, the
death . rate f rom traffic-accidents
is actually decreasing in the U.S.
Figures compiled by the [U.S.]
National Safety Council place
1954 as the best year since 1950
and a good deal better than
some pre-war years. Deaths in
traffic-accidents were estimated
at 36,500 for 1954, compared
with 38,300 in 1953 and a peak
of 39,969 in 1941.
“Over a longer period,” “U.S.
News and World Report” adds,
“the record is even more im-
pressive. In 1935 there were
about 26 million registered cars,
trucks and buses, and 36,369
people died in collisions. Now
there are more than 58 million
vehicles, and the number of
deaths is little greater than it
was 20 years ago.
“Does this mean your chances
of being killed in any given
motor-trip are less than they used
to be? The records of the Safety
Council seem’ to answer that
question with a resounding
‘Yes.’
“For any given amount of
travel by motor-vehicle, the num-
ber of kaths is much ’les S than
half what it was in the 1930’s
and is dropping steadily.
“if this improvement con-
tinues, the death-rate will be
only three per 100 million miles
G f driving by 1964, the Auto-
motive Safety Foundation esti-
mates.
“Cars are moving faster over
the roads, according to Govern-
ment studieS) but increased
speed hasn ’ t been reflected in
aC cident-figures the way many
j feared. Average speed
P Q [ nter _ State highways is give n
ag 44 mj]es per hour in 1946
a nd 52 miles per hour in 1953.
Thus speed increased 18 per
cent. Death-rate went down 28
per cent, in that period,
“Offsetting speed are new
sa fety features in cars, better
roads in many places, and
better driving.
“ CarS are being equipped with
f aster brakes, automatic turn-
signals, tyres that rarely blow-
out and lights and windows
that give better vision,
“Courses in driving are being
offered by more than one-fourth
of the high schools. Officials are
cracking down on recklessness,
Eighteen States have legalised
chemical tests to catch drunken
drivers. Radar-traps are being
use d to get speeders. Point-
systems are applied to chronic
offenders to deprive them o
licences.
“The records show all these
efforts already are making dnv-
ing safer.”


jFniUi in fflie
Fuiwre
m
vm
As the mariners used to say, “To navigate is
to live.” And it seems to me the time has come for
Australia to undertake a clear sounding of world
trade.,
Britain has been a staunch customer for our
exports for years. No doubt she will continue to
be. But Britain has her trade problems, and she
cannot be blamed for looking first to her own
economic survival.
Australia also has a responsibility—to develop
a continent, and to sell her surplus production on
the best available markets.
Where are those markets to be found?
Canada’s Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. C. D.
Howe, was telling us in Australia recently of the
possibilities of stepping up our sales of sugar, dried
fruits and canned pineapples in his country.
Another opportunity opens in the trader-to-
trader dealing in the marketing of our beef.
I believe there are many ports to explore, and
that Australia should be sending merchants and
experts to study various countries’ requirements
and their capacity to absorb what we have to sell.
One of our big national jobs is to work out
a relationship with Asia, commercially as well as
politically. The market potential of Asia is
enormous.
In this there are attendant conditions, of
course. The world wants goods of high quality,
soundly and attractively packed. There is no
substitute for goodwill in permanent trading.
And cost is a deep consideration. Production
must be at prices the world can afford to pay.
These are internal conditions, depending on
the volume we produce, how well we produce it,
how efficiently and cheaply we can turn it out
without sacrifice of our standards.
There is still the external course to be set. In
the navigations of life today we must be traders
as well as producers.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 317 of 1955.
TO EDWARD JAMES CORBY, late of
Orange.—TAKE NOTICE that ARLENE
ELIZABETH CORBY has filed Petition
for Divorce No. 317 of 1956 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three (3) years and up-
wards If you desire to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Bth day of August One thou-
sand nine hundred and fifty-five. iou
may obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. L. D-
SERISIER & CO., Solicitors, 193-19 a
Summer Street, Orange; or their Town
Agents, MESSRS. PETER C. KEARNEY
& CO., of 60 Hunter Street, Sydney
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friends
O’CONNOR, John Carmichael (or HUGH
O’CONNOR), formerly of Tangambalanga,
Hop Picker. Last heard of in the Kiewa
District in 1937. Any person knowing
the present address of the above is re-
quested to communicate with iJ*K
TRUSTEES EXECUTORS & AG “ NC S
COMPANY LIMITED, 401 Collins Street,
Melbourne. .
GLEADHALL, Herb, formerly of Wood-
stock in the State of Victoria.—WlLL
any person knowing the whereabouts or
the abovenamed HERB GLEADHALL.
please communicate with the unde-
mentioned firm of Solicitors.—MOLOMßX
& MOLOMBY, 99 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne ?
“Tida baik” (no good), he re-
marks sadly.
“What’s wrong?” I ask him,
with the help of a Malay dic-
tionary.
“Too small.”
“Small, Ali? They’re twice
the size of your foot! ”
Well, all boots are too small
for these natives, because they
are not accustomed to footgear,
and it hurts them till they get
used to it.
After a while the boots trouble
him no more. He seems more
carefree and happy; all those
years of Japanese terror belong
to a distant past. The casual,
friendly Australian attitude, the
Diggers’ way of treating the
natives, is working wonders for
him and his kinsmen.
Then one morning, while I am
looking at Ali, that hateful smile
Curly Morton spoke of hits me
fair and square.
“What’s the matter, Ali?”
“Hari Raya.” That’s all he
says.
Hari Raya is the Muslim New
Year, three days of celebrations.
Every native boy has permission
to leave the camp area, includ-
ing Ali —so why should he
worry? I tell him so. He nods,
smiles and is silent.
Evening comes. Festive lights
flicker in the Malay villages.
Music is heard everywhere.
Natives in their “Sunday best”
wearing black fez or red, blue
silk trousers and white shirts
which they had been hiding from
the Japs; womenfolk in gaily-
colored sarongs demonstrate
their joyous gratitude to Allah
the great.
It is the first free Hari Raya
since the Japanese came and
tried to spoil their existence.
But Ali is still around the
camp, lonely and forgotten. He
watches us with the eyes of a
faithful, hurt child to whom
some great injustice was done.
Poor Ali has no family, no
parents, and the healing wound
is reopened.
THE MT is about to leave
for the R.A.A.F. show,
which is on the other side of the
island. Ali watches as we climb
aboard, and Pte. Furphy calls
out:
“What about Ali? Let’s take
him! ”
Strong arms lift Ali into the
truck, and before he can utter
a word of thanks he is on his
way to the pictures. He enjoys
it and seems brighter, yet still
sad. No Malay family invited
him; perhaps it is not done ;
but everyone in camp knows of
his grievance.
Perhaps that is why the follow-
ing evening Ali’s apparel expands
to an amazing extent: jungle-
green trousers, another khaki
shirt, a Digger’s hat with pugaree,
webbing belt, gaiters, the unit’s
color-patch, and even a set of
“Australias.” All these make
him different, and better than
any native on the island.
“T’ank you, t’ank you,” he
tells everyone he meets, after
admiring himself in a mirror.
Again we take him to the pic-
tures, but next day Ali can’t be
found. Since it is our rest-day,
we stroll around the island, and
call in at a native village, which
consists of a few thatched
bamboo huts.
In the centre of the village
stands Pte. Ali Baba, the inhabi-
tants surrounding him, admiring
his uniform. We join the circle,
and it’s clear the natives are
comparing our uniform with
Ali’s.
No difference! Ali smiles,
and is proud as Punch. He has
no family, which seems to be a
slight amongst these people, but
his reputation has come good.
“Come on, Ali, back to
camp!” I call to him.
Now an elderly man steps out
from the crowd, and bows
slightly to Ali, mutters a few
words, and then turns to us, and
in very broken English says:
“Ali no go you. Please. Him
stay. Eat my family.”
Thus is Ali invited by the
village headman to feast with
him and his family on the third
day of Hari Raya.
]>JEXT morning he is back at
his usual place, with more
confidence and satisfaction than
I can describe.
“Me marry. Daughter head
man,” he informs everyone.
After a week he gives notice,
and disappears altogether. But
some of us are invited to the
wedding preliminaries. There is
Ali Baba in the Digger uniform,
an important personage. Watch-
ing him, Pte. Carpenter, who
always draws some sort of con-
clusion, remarks:
‘Til be darned! The good old
uniform .. . ! The natives never
saw it before we came. But it
still works, and works right
through!”
popped into it together with an
abrasive, such as emery-powder,
and left to whirl round until
they joggle each other into the
required shine.
Rumbling-stars are added to
the load in the barrel to help
with jobs of more than usually
intricate shape. These little
instruments—with the almost
hypnotic name —are made of
metal and shaped like three-
dimensional starfish. Like a
starfish, they have the usual
seven spikes or so ; but they are
three-dimensional in that, unlike
a starfish, the spikes radiate in
ail directions like those of a
hedgehog en garde.
The idea is that these points
will penetrate and polish the
crevices in the job as they
tumble round- in the barrel.
They are called rumbling-stars
because the whole method
rumbles; not because they have
a rumble of their own.
With or without stars,
impatient operators must not be
allowed to spin the barrel with
too much gusto. This might
damage the goods. Spinning
should be just fast enough to
cause the goods inside to quietly
massage each other.
Even this quiet friction gener-
ates heat, expanding the air
inside the barrel. And certain
abrasives, added to facilitate
polishing, when heated, emit
gases which further increase the
pressure. The operator must
therefore open the barrel with
as much caution as a housewife
her pressure-cooker.
At last the job is as clean as
friction can make it. It is then
passed on to the plater. And
the first thing the plater does
is give it another cleaning! For
this ultra-cleaning he has at his
disposal a chemical arsenal of
vapors, acids and super-
detergents.
Trichlorethylene vapor is used
to clean grease off jobs;
especially for large batches of
items such as those which have
just been polished with a mixture
of tallow and emery.
Trichlorethylene liquid is
placed in the bottom of a high
tank. This tank has a gas-jet
to warm its lower-half and
rings of water-pipes to cool its
upper-half. The job is hung
above the liquid, but below the
level of the cooling-pipes. The
gas-jet vaporises the liquid,
The rising vapor de-greases the
job, then goes on rising till it
is chilled by the water-pipes,
when it condenses and “rains”
back to the bottom of the tank,
The cycle then repeats itself,
The vapor is similar to that
used to mitigate the pangs of
childbirth, when it is known as
“twilight sleep.” Smoking is
forbidden near the vapor-tank:
not because the vapor is inflam-
mable—it isn’t—but because of
the risk of inhaling a soporific
whiff or two along with the
tobacco - smoke Careless or
disobedient platers sometimes
a i Vjl tc \ fAVilight s eep.
mffe m moderation, -
ever, the gas is not dangerous,
Indeed it induces an agreeable
, , \ ~ B xZul t
lotus-eating torpor. Ether-
sniffing was a standard hobby
with drug-addicts in the
’twenties, and for all I know
still is. An occasional plater
becomes addicted to the vapor
and starts smuggling bottles out
so that he can have a trichlor-
ethylene binge at home. How-
ever, the trade is not really
plagued with this problem. The
only physical contact which
most platers have with the gas
is when they accidentally dip
their hands in it. Though the
gas is, in fact, at a fairly warm
temperature, it feels very cold,
Baths of patent cleaners are
also used, and, as with domestic
washing-up, these are often
heated to speed things along,
For, of course, the speed with
which a job may be pushed
through has a direct bearing on
the earnings of a plating-shop,
A further speeding-up is
sometimes given by passing a
mild charge of electricity
through the vat. This causes
hydrogen bubbles to fizz up
from the surface of the job, thus
stirring away the impurities
which have just been removed
and giving the cleaning-
solution a clear go in getting to
work on those which remain.
A sludge collects on the walls
of the cleaning-tanks. About
once a fortnight this sludge has
to be removed the hard way,
with a nylon brush pumice-
powder and water. This chore
is every bit as nasty as it
sounds. . ,
The contretemps of a job
being cleaned to vanishing point
can, and does, happen. Cruel
casualties of this kind are jobs
with rust on them. Rust is a
plater’s arch-enemy. If even a
microscopic speck remains on a
job, operation electroplate is
soon un one. nrocess
whimcimilknown as
which is whimsically known as
pickling whimsically because
oni a
the p lck]e ls a sulphuric-acid
bath!
It’s easy for a plater to pop
something in to pickle for five
minutes, be interrupted by a
rush job, and forget all about it.
By the time he remembers, the
job may emerge looking moth-
eaten, or it may just not be there
any more.
Annihilation of a customer’s
goods must be embarrassing,
“What do you tell people?”
“That we lost it.”
In some U.K. firms the lay-
out of an automatic plant
included pickling-vats set flush
with the floor. This sometimes
led to more tragic mishaps.
So hypersensitive to rust is the
plating process that jobs are
swilled-off with water and rushed
straight to the plating-vat. Even
short exposure to the air might
give the invisible enemy a
toehold.
With machine-parts which are
to be. heavily chromed the sur-
face is deliberately roughened
with acid. This is called etch-
ing, and ensures perfect adhesion
of the deposit, which, in such
cases, is not merely ornamental
but has to serve as a spearhead,
The plating process has
already been roughly outlined,
and j ts chemical mysteries are
too man if o i d to be gone into
bere However some of the
ways by which* the process is
speeded _ up are interesting.
Most chemical react i ons are
acce i erated by heat, and plating
no exception. The vats are
usually heated either by electric
j mmers i on _h eat ers or ordinary
gas .; ets (“Our gas- and power-
, nhenomenal 1 ”1
LtaLn of Se nlatine
sol Xn also w? 2
solution also hurries things
by blowing corned-
a*r i nto the bottom of the vat.
The bubbles rise to the surface
. , . . ~
t “ iu us in a g ? Dt g *
fish bowl, and, in so domg, keep
p^ting solution we |l
ti °
® a “ P* - .. .
Alternatively, the is
allowed to remain still, an V, a
J°bs themselves are swished
about as they hang in it. Inis
ls done by hanging them from
a bar which is, m turn, faxed to
the rim of a revolving wheel
Ih e perpetual movement not
only quickens the plating but
Produces a more even deposit,
1 here is less tendency for excess
chrome to collect, snowdrilt-
kke, on edges, protruding bits
and so forth.
Specially useful to industry is
cadmium. This is used for
machinery which is exposed to
the weather, such as springs and
connecting-rods on the under-
side of cars. It is the only metal
with which heavy-duty springs
may successfully be plated; all
other deposits are too brittle.


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3£ ins.,
68 x 3§ and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan [*j;
E nvelove Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304.306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
69 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
m
£
rvi
CBN/d
ss
szfl
olo\ T 3
no
IWS
no
<P
no
+•
V,
&
'/.
m>
DQQS)
MU
s
+*
+*
■f 6
XaJiAaas
noiiviavX
4~
laa/
CX3
-JjYU-
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
a/ss
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Black Prophet
by Guy Fitch Phelps.—6083.
To buy copy of Jo Bonwick’s
William Buckley, the Wild White
Man and His Port Phillip Black
Friends (1856). —6077.
To buy copy of The Bulletin
Reciter.— 6076.
Words of song or poem ending
“Good luck, good health, God bless
you all the way.”—6082.
Whereabouts of Lucie Deely, con-
cert and vaudeville singer, who, as
Blanch Rosetti, sang on the Fuller
circuit in Sydney and elsewheie 30
years ago.—6081.
To buy old Australian and New
Zealand military badges, also mil.tary
helmets.—6075.
To buy Don’t Mr. Disraeli by S. J.
Simon and Caryl Brahms. —6078.
To buy Handbook of Freedom,
edited by Jack Lindsay and Edgell
Rickword. —6079.
To buy Victor Daley, by A. G.
Stephens.—6080.
Information Sought
Some particulars about Barbara
Baynton, the Australian authoress?
Barbara Baynton was the daughter
of Robert Laurence Kilpatrick and
was born at Scone (N.S.W.) on June
4, 1862. In 1880 she married Hay
Frater and in 1890 Dr. Thomas
Baynton. A few years later she
began contributing short-stories to
The Bulletin, and six of these
were published in 1902 under the
title of Bush Studies. In 1907
appeared Human Toll, a novel, and
in 1917 Cobbers, a reprint of Bush
Studies, with two additipnal stories.
During the 1914-18 war Barbara
Baynton was living in England and
in 1921 she married her third
husband, Baron Headley. She died
at Melbourne on May 28, 1929.
Barbara Baynton’s reputation rests
on half a dozen short-stories,
written with much ability and power,
and uncompromising in their stark
realism. The building-up of detail,
however, is at times overdone, and,
lacking humorous relief, the stories
tend to give a distorted view of lite
in the backblocks.
* * * *
Details of H.M.S. Hood, lost in
World War II ?
Until World War II this battle-
cruiser was the show-ship of the
Royal Navy. She carried a heavier
armament than any other ship in
the fleet with the same speed. Begun
in 1916, launched in 1918, and com-
pleted in March, 1920, she had a dis-
placement of 42,100 tons and tier
speed was over 30 knots. The original
cost was about £6,025,000, but a
further £687,674 was spent on repairs
and reconstruction when she was
taken out of' commission in 1929.
She was again refitted in 1939. Her
outstanding features were the huge
area covered by heavy armor, strong-
framing and the general scheme or
protection. Her eight 15in. guns
fired shells of nearly iOOOibs., uieu
extreme range being nearly 17 miles.
In addition there were 12 5.5 gums
as well as lighter armament. The
ship was sunk oil Greenland on
May 24, 1941, by a shell from the
new German battleship Bismarck at
13 miles, the shell penetrating a
magazine so that she blew up and
sank in a few minutes. Of her
complement of over 1300 only tflree
were saved.
* * * *
Some particulars about Charles
Whitehead, English novelist and
dramatist, who' is said to have died
in Australia about a century ago?
Charles Whitehead was born in
London in 1804, the son of a wine-
merchant. He received a good educa-
tion and entered a commercial-office
as a clerk. His first literary-work
was a long poem, The Solitary
(1831), which was followed by a
large amount of miscellaneous
writing, including Jack Ketch (1834),
Richard Savage (1842), his finest
novel, The Earl of Essex (1843), a
historical romance, a play called The
Cavalier (1836), and many short-
stories. He was a friend of Dickens,
Thackeray, and other writers of the
period. He gave way to drink, ai.u
in 1857 left for Melbourne, probably
hoping that he would be able to make
a fresh start there. A shy, scholarly-
looking man with undoubted ability,
he was in no way fitted for the
colonial life of the period. While
in Australia he wrote a little for the
press, but published nothing in book-
form. After a period in a benevolent-
asylum he was picked up exhausted
in one of the streets and taken to
hospital, where he died on July 5,
1862.
* * * *
Any information about an artist
named Ellis Silas ?
He was the grandson of a well-
known musical-composer and the
son of Louis F. Silas, a painter of the
romantic-school. Started in England
as a marine-painter and came to Aus-
tralia some years before 1914. He
joined the A.I.F., and was at the
landing at Anzac, which resulted in
a book of sketches published with
the name Crusading at Anzac. He
was commissioned by the Australian
Government to do some paintings
for the War Museum. He went back
to England and was honored with a
Royal audience. After a few years
in London, during which he exhibited
at most of the leading shows, he
went to Papua and spent some years
painting in the Trobriand Islands.
This work was exhibited both in
Sydney and London. He contributed
sketches to The Bulletin.
* * * *
What are the nature and origin of
the fireballs which are sometimes in
evidence during thunderstorms ?
A “fireball” or ball-lightning is a
rare phenomenon that sometimes
occurs in thunderstorms. The balls
are an effect of lightning rather than
lightning itself, and are small globu-
lar masses of incandescent-gas. They
are probably caused by the electric
discharge through moist air, but no
satisfactory explanation of their
formation has yet been determined. A
ball may last a few seconds or
several minutes, but on touching a
solid object usually explodes. The
damage caused by fireballs is seldom
great. A few authentic cases of fire-
balls have been reported about Syd-
ney, but in the great majority of
cases the damage popularly attributed
to fireballs is the result of a direct
lightning-stroke.
Brief Answers
RJ.: Peterloo was the name (a
burlesque adaptation of Waterloo)
given to a charge of cavalry and
yeomanry on the Manchester reform
meeting held in St. Peter’s Field,
Manchester, on August 16, 1819, as
a result of which 11 persons are
said (the figures are doubtful) to have
been killed and 600 injured... .E.W.:
The Great Eastern was a steamship,
the largest of its day, designed by
I. K. Brunei, and launched in 1858.
It was 692ft. long and had a displace-
ment of 27,000 tons. It was
designed for the Atlantic passenger-
service, but was mostly employed in
cable-laying and was broken-up in
1886 T.McG.: Melbourne’s first
land-sale was held on June 1, 1837.
C.C.: Write Beltane Book
Bureau, 110 Nathans Buildings, 13
Grey-street, Wellington (N.Z.)....
W.D.: Sufferers from pulmonary-
tuberculosis may be eligible for
tuberculosis-allowance, higher than
the rate of invalid-pension. Write
State Director of Tuberculosis,
Department of Health, 52 Bridge-
street, Sydney P.L.: A. G.
Stephens died suddenly in Sydney on
April 15, 1933. He married in 1894
Constance Ivingsbelle Smith, who
survived him, with two sons and four
daughters F.W.: Lord Maugham’s
The Tichborne Case; Charge of the
Lord Chief Justice of England
R.C.A.: Arthur Mailey, born at
Sydney in 1890, studied art
under J. S. Watkins. His first draw-
ings were contributed to “The
Referee” (Sydney) and then The
Bulletin. In 1921 he joined the
staff of the Sydney “Sun” J.P.C.:
(1) A deep-blue pigment made from
the fusion of silica, potash and oxide
of cobalt; the glass thus formed was
ground to powder and used for
coloring. It has been superseded by
cobalt-blue and artificial ultramarine.
(2) A clear brushing-lacquer such as
that used by librarians on book-
covers might be effective if the paper
is not too weak to stand it. A better
way would be to enclose the sheets in
cellophane of good, fine quality,
folded or pasted round the edges.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
GLEANINGS FROM THE W.P.B.
J.P.8.: Well, you’ll have to do
better than the following:
Should you fail to print my verse
I’ll not reward you with a curse,
But bless you if you’ll criticise
My little poems which I prize.
R.A.P.: Off you go, then:
With evening comes the zephyrs,
Whispering from the sea,
I fain would know their secret
And with them gladly flee.
....K.D.: Maybe, but you don’t
make anything resembling poetry out
of the situation:
The clouds of Peace are shadowed
By threats of Atomic War;
The U.N. is in the balance
As it never was before.
S.N.: At least the sentiment is
sound: —
Although there’s many alterations
To the things our hearts held dear,
There’s one thing can’t be altered—
That’s a good old pint of beer.
H.N.S.: Surely you are not that
badly smitten:
If Sally Ann, that voluptuous miss,
Whom I have often wished to kiss,
Should ever leave our fair Australia
I am sure that I’d have heart failure.
K.W.: After one startled glance
at “Old Harry the Country Mail-
man,” we ushered hiip gently off
the premises:
His whiskers they went long, long ago,
Blown off while battling in a gale,
His hair is piebald with none to spare;
He is an old pot and not so hale.
B.S.: But aren’t there kissproof
lipsticks on the market? :
Our Polly is a forward bint,
Her painted lips, like coiner’s mint,
Their stamp on other lips imprint
In telltale blush of carmine tintl
W.S.C.: We cannot but agree •
with you:
Of all the bushmen he is the worse—
The awful man who will harshly curse
And brutally and most cruelly flog
His poor unoffending kelpie dog.
. ...F.H.F.: Quite a good start, but
your Pegasus ciacked-up long before
the straight was reached:
Exciting was the match between
The city and the local club ;
’Twas played upon the village green,
Quite handy to the shearers’ pub.
... .S.K.McL.: One poignant
verse:—
Hopeless and helpless and beaten
Ah pity ! But do not upbraid
The downtrodden —weary —defeated,
The woman that a man betrayed.
. ...C.E.D.: The baby-sitting hus-
band’s remark to his music-loving
wife and mother-in-law seems to be
heartfelt:
So, at lust you’ve got home, you tramps.
I hope by the opera you were thrilled,
While I sat minding those bawling
scamps,
And was lonely, miserable and chilled.
J.M.: Sorry to hear that the
skids are under old Tom: —
Soon old Tom will be shorn of every
gallant deed,
He’ll take his medals one by one and
sell them for a feed.
H.P.S.: Don’t agree that a
curlew, however doleful, would
necessarily wail merely because he
knew a mopoke was dying:
Like a lost soul in terrible pain
A sad and doleful lone curlew
Wailed and cried as though he knew
The mopoke in the night was dying.
N.C.H.: But why should one
anticipate either method of transport
when there’s a chance of going aloft
on wings?:
Life is a tragedy or a farce,
Make it which you like:
Go to hell in a motor-car
Or push along on a bike.
....V.M.: The case for the hen that
is called upon to work overtime is
well put:—
Why should I lay two eggs a day?
I’m pretty sure I couldn’t.
But if I really could, you know,
I’m very sure I wouldn’t.
D.B.: It may not be poetry, but
it gets pretty close to facts: —
Too many politicians I think
They are always in a muddle
And when they have all had their say
It’s nothing but a blooming puzzle.
R.W.: Apparently all is well
aboard the good ship Lucy Gee:
Oh, us sailors are full of the grog,
Full of rum, whisky and beers;
Tomorrow we’ll have a hair of the dog,
But tonight we’ll go courting our dears.
Oh, for a life on the high sea,
Oh, for a bender when ashore,
Oh, for a whacking good tea
And the smiles of the girls we adore.
A. 8.: Four lines, then, of your
impassioned plea:
Let the enemy keep behind his fence,
Lest our cities’ value be a few pence.
Bravely disdaining weak subservience
Let’s do our share in civilian defence.
M.E.H.: It would seem that we
are to be haunted until the crack o’
doom by your poem about the empty
beer-bottles P.S.N.: We were very
anti that “anti-anti” poem
C.P.R.: You could try reciting it to
Eddie. .. .D.G.E.: We were almost
tempted.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS .*
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Tne "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN'S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
ment illus-
trated is the
World-famous
“FARMERS 1
BOY» STEPPED ■ AXLE
PLOUGH.
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: lirazeos Co-operative Ltd-.
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES * CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOX."
COURSES AT AGRICULTURAL HIGH SCHOOLS
A LMOST 30 years ago my
father sent me 300 miles to
what was, at that time, the only
Agricultural High School in
New South Wales, in the hope
that, in addition to the usual
high-school curriculum, I might
learn something useful about
farming.
On each holiday he used to
test me to see what sort of infor-
mation I had been gathering. I
contrived to impress him a little
by telling him that I knew every-
thing about 20 breeds of cattle
and 20 breeds of sheep, but
when he discovered that we were
spending term after term learn-
ing the characteristics of each
breed, most of which were
»hTn°e™ £w A r n al i a
Sydney shows, and that in the
confusion of dealing with so
T
many I was uncertain about the
qualities of the few I really
ought to know (such as Here-
fords, Ayrshires, Jerseys, Short-
horns and Merinos, Corriedales,
Southdowns, Border Leicesters),
his opinion of the value of the
agricultural-course began to be
modified
that with the
He realised that with the
school situated within the
snhnrhs of Svdnev our nractical
suburbs of Sydney our practical
experience of crop-growing had
fieldpeas' 6 and ”3
held peas and such coastal
crops, and that we would be
single £t
“toy” farm-implements, but he
did become slightly impatient
when, in the theoretical part of
the course, we devoted as much
time to potatoes, millet, rice,
cowpeas, turnips, melons, soy-
beans (and even vetches, tares
and mangel-wurzels) as we did
tn wheat
u . , t ,
varieties'of 1 wheat* been
recommended to sow were the
£ u ,
ones all practical farmers had
discarded vears before but be
discarded years b tore > bu e
got a good laugh out of the
recommendation to cultivate
between the rows of wheat at
various stages during its growth.
This was just at the time
when tractors were coming into
use on his kind of farm, but our
theoretical farm - implements
were pulled by equal numbers
of Clydesdale, Shire, Suffolk
Punch, Percheron and Belgian
horses, and we had to learn
everything about each of these
breeds, although we hardly ever
saw anything but Clydesdales.
That was a long time ago,
when agricultural education was
in its beginnings, and though it
was hardly excusable, we could
understand how it came to be so
redolent of English farming,
from which the course was pre-
sumably derived. So when my
eldest son reached high-school
age and showed an interest in
farming I had no hesitation in
recommending the agricultural-
course in the local high-school
to him.
Things would have been
greatly altered in 30 years, I was
sure, and I was told that the
agricultural instructor would
frequently take his classes out to
the adjacent "Government Ex-
periment Farm, which I knew
t o be quite a fine institution.
w. ~ y- f- —>;
d £ * * hic h
7*/ e • ,
mv father found to be so made-
y
quate 30 years ago
textbooks have different
names, it is true, but they have
tke same things in them The
course ’ Much one might hope
s f e a llttle specialised to suit
l° ca * requirements, makes the
same des P erate attempts to cover
all the cr °P S § rOWn an y where in
h world as well as all the
f ~ , ’ . ~ . com .
fruits and vegetables , the same
b ilderin variety of farm _
animals . f nd all 4 breeds of
P° ultr y. man V o£ which are o£
ltt j to the hobby-
for exhibiting in the
‘W'-section of agricultural
s ° w ‘ , . . , ,
who can drive tractors
and trucks on their fathers
arms ’ who can (and do) grow
crops, raise sheep pigs or cattle,
have ! he S reate . st d,fficu]t .y
passing their agricultural
examinations because these
amount to little more than a
fantastically difficult feat of
T- How many pounds of
* hat “ n d d °'
are used on onions, sweet-
P otatoes ’ pumpkins, cotton,
sugarcane SW edes and carrots
( 8 SOQ t e|| s me they haven’t yet
mange l-wurzels, but he is
k sure they will), how many
ounds per ac ’ e of seed of each
i s sown, and what would be the
expected yield?
They are obliged to memorise
score-cards for judging dairy-
COW s, Clydesdale stallions, Berk-
shire pigs, maize, potatoes,
w heat, wheaten-chaff, lucerne-
chaff, Merino rams and White
Leghorn poultry, which is
almost as difficult as learning off
a calendar on what day of the
week any given date falls
throughout the year, and just
about as useful to the practis-
ing farmer.
The result of this type of agri-
cultural education is that the
sensible youngsters who intend
to be farmers, and who have
very definite ideas about what
would be useful and valuable to
them, despise their agricultural-
course. They even tend to
despise all education, and think
longingly of the days when they
can throw away their absurd
agricultural-notes and plunge
into farming the way it is done
today on the farms they know.
All of this dated, stereotyped,
generalised programme is the
more disappointing when we
happen to be right in the middle
of a new scientific era in agri-
culture. There is so much hap-
pening now which would be fas-
cinatingly interesting to agricul-
tural students; so much of
concern to the farming of each
district where the student’s own
farming will be carried out.
In the local case the staff of
file experiment-farm could pro-
vide tremendously valuable
instruction, though they never
do it. Whether this is the fault
“Funny how they like a bit o’ human hair f'r their nest.”
of the Education Department or
of the Department of Agricul-
ture I am unable to say. I do
know that the experiment-farm
staff deplore the lack of interest
by farmers in their work, and I
feel sure that they would appre-
ciate the value of opportunities
for interesting agricultural-high-
school boys.
Out of fairness I must state
here that the course does empha-
sise the danger of soil-erosion,
though insufficient attention is
devoted to local examples of
soil-conservation works, and
little, if any, use is made of the
information which soil-conserva-
tion officers would be able to
give. Often the agricultural
teachers do valuable work in
organising and assisting junior-
farmers clubs, but this extra-
curricula work really amounts to
an admission on their part of
the inadequacy of the agricul-
tural instruction, for which they
are not personally responsible.
The only purpose which the
agricultural-course appears to
fulfil adequately is to prepare
boys for passing examinations
which will admit them to higher
agricultural education of the
same generalised and standard-
ised nature, which ultimately
qualifies them for the many
departmental jobs.
From this point the more able
may develop into useful
specialists, but many of them
appear to labor in obscure and
mysterious ways; and it is
undoubtedly they who design
plans of instruction for agricul-
tural courses in high-schools.
E. O. SCHLUNKE.
Wool-grease
When we think of wool, it
is usually “greasy wool” we
have in mind. But, of course,
before wool can be made into
textiles, it must be scoured,
That is, the dirt, grease and
suint must be removed,
Greasy wool contains many
kinds of extraneous matter. An
average Merino fleece is corn-
posed of 49 per cent, wool-fibre,
19 per cent, dirt, 10 per cent,
water, 6 per cent, suint and 16
per cent, grease. Thus a fleece
weighing 121 b. and yielding 50
per cent, would have only 61b.
of pure wool left after scouring,
and of the other 61b. approxi-
mately 21b. would be grease,
Although this grease is re-
garded by the manufacturer as
a nuisance, and must be removed
before he can start manufacture,
it is an essential part of the
fleece and protects the fibre dur-
ing its growth,
The grease is generally re-
moved by passing the wool
through several scouring-bowls
or large troughs containing hot
water, scouring-soap and alkali,
The wool is moved gently
through these bowls by a pro-
pelling-mechanism above the
trough known as “swing-har-
rows” or a “swing-rake,” ac-
cording to the type of wool being
treated. When the wool reaches
the last bowl, it is given a rinse
in warm water only.
During this scouring process
the grease is removed. It is
customary to pass about
15001 b. of wool per hour
through a single washing-set;
from this quantity of greasy
wool as much as 2701 b. of grease
may be removed. The recovery
of this grease in Australia is
not carried out to any large ex-
tent. Not a grease in the true
sense of the word, it is really
“wool-wax”: unlike greases and
fats of all kinds it does not con-
tain glycerine.
One particularly valuable pro-
perty possessed by the wax is
that it provides exceptionally
good protection against the cor-
rosion of metal articles. Rust-
preventives have therefore
been extensively made from it.
Such protective material was
used during the war as coat-
ings on guns and other equip-
ment during storage and ship-
ment.
The best type of wool-grease
—that which has been collected
before it has become contamin-
ated—is lanolin. This has a
wide field of utilisation. It is
closely allied in origin to the
natural secretions of the skin
and, therefore, it is particularly
suited for use in cosmetics. Also,
it doesn’t become rancid. Prob-
ably half of the creams and lip-
sticks on the market are made
on a lanolin-base. Lanolin has
also been used in shaving-
creams, sun-tan creams, inks,
pastes, polishes, dyes, lubri-
cants and many other prepara-
tions.
Any efficient utilisation of by-
products must, of course, be of
value to the entire industry. At
present, a good deal of research
into the utilisation of wool-
grease is going on in Australian
laboratories.
J. S. BOARDMAN.
Hugh Gordon
Before someone points out a
glaring omission in my article
for the Wool Issue [B. l/6/’55:
“Sheep Health Research”] I
hasten to do sc myself. I refer
to the work done in coping with
worms in sheep—particularly to
the work of Hugh Gordon.
It is one of those omissions
which seem almost inexplicable.
I spotted it before The Bulletin
came out, running through a
draft of my copy at home. But
by that time it was too late.
On the higher and better-
watered country worm-parasites
make unrelenting attack upon
sheep and young cattle. Forty
years ago drenching with a weak
solution of arsenic or a brew
of tobacco-leaves was the usual
treatment —more often than not
it gave little result.
Clunies Ross [now Sir lan
Clunies Ross, chairman of
C.5.1.R.0.] first made systematic
study of this problem, but his
assistant and successor, Hugh
Gordon, has made the greatest
contribution to our means of
defence against sheep worm-
trouble.
Gordon was responsible for
introducing phenothiazine—the
most dependable of all vermi-
cides for sheep to the Aus-
tralian farmer, but his best
work has been based on his
epidemiological studies, in which
he investigated the reasons for
the rise and fall of worm-para-
site populations within the sheep.
Gordon’s plan requires a sys-
tematic attack on the worms
right through the year. Attack-
ing the parasites with military
precision, he formulated the
strategic plan of assault and the
tactical measures to meet chang-
ing conditions. If his plan is
followed no heavy losses of
young sheep associated with
heavy worm-infestation need
occur.
W. L. HINDMARSH.
Tractor Care
“Net Titre”: An hour’s work
on the tractor before you put
it in the shed for a long spell is
worth £s. Make a drill of it.
Drain sump and refill with new
oil. Replace oil-filter. Remove
spark-plugs and squirt clean
engine-oil into each cylinder.
Don’t forget to replace plugs
—hornets love building in plug-
holes.
If transmission hasn’t been
drained in the last 750 working-
hours, drain and replenish. In
any case, top-up with the proper
grade of gear-oil.
Grease all nipples. Lubricate
magneto-wick or distributor-
spindle sparingly with light oil.
Fill radiator and add soluble
oil. Fill fuel-tank, making sure
fuel-cap gasket is in good order.
If possible, jack-up a rubber-
wheeled tractor. Remove any
trace of oil or grease from the
tyres. If tractor isn’t stored in
a shed, make sure it is covered,
somehow, with adequate pro-
tection for a variety of weather.
A shed’s best, of course.
A few hours before re-starting,
remove spark-plugs and squirt


A
AUGER
GRAIN
you just curry it around!
■
Mt
The MOBILCO 'Junior
CRAIN AUGER
ITs pretty handy you know, to carry a little grata auger 10
a bin . . . push one end into the grain and deliver it into
bag, bulk truck or a barrow at 150 bushels per bout.
This miniature auger, with full sized performance, can be
driven by V 2 inch electric drill, % h.p. electric motor, or,
if you are a bit more energetic and money conscious than
the average, by a small crank handle.
If you're using a shovel and a lot of time and
perspiration in handling wheat, oats, rice, corn, small
saw-dust and other small grained bulk material, you're
going to be sorry if you don't look into this new
Mobilco Junior Auger right away. Once you have
tried it we guarantee you'll keep it right by your side
as the best little labour saver you've come across.
The Junior Auger weighs only 40 lbs. It is 3V2 inches in
diameter, 10 feet long, and it sells at a pocket-sized
price, £ 24/8/-, ready for attachment of your electric
drill or fitted with crank handle and ready for use. Send
an order now for quick delivery and a Junior Auger will
be on its way to you immediately.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN - PHONES: YX1244-5
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC.
WU 1081 (9 LINES) - BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
AGENTS LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
a little light oil into each
cylinder. Rotate engine slowly,
leaving plugs out. Check tyre-
pressures. When tractor starts,
run motor briskly until warmed-
up.
Watch for lack of pressure on
oil-gauge (if fitted). If the gauge
registers no pressure, best to
have a good mechanic look at
it. The gauge itself should be the
first suspect. When moving
tractor, clutch should be en-
gaged gently, and tractor tried
through all gears without a load.
Footrot
“Gambaloo”: At a conserva-
tive estimate, footrot costs Vic-
torian sheepowners £2,000,000 a
year. This is based on an esti-
mate of 4s. a head for all sheep
in affected flocks, and the-fact
that the Department of Agricul-
ture’s recent survey revealed that
50 per cent, of the State’s flocks
were affected.
But Victorian sheepmen are
doing something about it. The
survey disclosed that, whereas
75 per cent, of the State’s flocks
had had experience of footrot,
only 50 per cent, are affected
now.
All owners should inspect
flocks regularly for lesions of
footrot, and affected sheep should
be treated and isolated. A
recent departmental pronounce-
ment recommends that, where
this is not done, stock-inspectors
should serve notice on owners
to isolate and treat sheep.
Owners would be prevented
from selling, or exhibiting for
sale, sheep visibly affected with
footrot. However, such sheep
could be sold to abattoirs or
freezing-works for immediate
slaughter. Buyers would be re-
quired to inspect all sheep and
isolate and treat those visibly
affected.
Producers’ organisations ap-
pear to favor legislation against
footrot, provided they can dis-
cuss the machinery of such legis-
lation before it is submitted to
Parliament.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(29/5/’55)
Rainfall during June should be poor in Queensland,
apart from moderate falls on the north, central and lower-
south coasts. Much of N.S.W. should be similar, with
moderate rain on the coast, Riverina and portion of the
n.w.-slopes and plains; elsewhere below-average rains.
Moderate foll Ow-on rain should continue in Victoria,
but only light rain in north and Mallee.
South Australia should receive reasonably good rains,
but little, if any, rain in the interior, and only light rain
in the Murray Valley.
Fairly good rains should occur in Western Australia,
particularly in the agricultural areas, with heavy rains near
Perth from June 7, and rain and showers continuing to the
middle of the month.
LENNOX WALKER.
N.Z. Wool Weeks
“0.W.W.”: Nelson (N.Z.) has
had a successful Wool Week,
followed by another at Master-
ton, in the North Island. High-
lights have included the showing
of the N.Z. National Film
Unit’s documentary “The Snow-
line Is Their Boundary,” which
won first place at the Edinburgh
Film Festival, and exhibitions of
shearing by N.Z. champion W.
Godfrey Bowen.
Core with Chemicals
“Tiger”: Modern agricul-
tural chemicals are so powerful
that, unless used carefully, they
can be very harmful to humans,
stock, and the crop on which
they are used.
First safety-rule is to use such
chemicals strictly according to
directions on the label. As a few
ounces can make a totally dif-
ferent spray-concentration, it is
very necessary to measure each
lot carefully. Wash concentrates
or spray-material off the skin
quickly with soap and water.
Most chemicals are highly in-
flammable; store them care-
fully. Destroy empty cartons
and other containers. If a mask
or respirator is recommended,
US Never spray in a stiff breeze
or wind. Poor spray-control s
wasteful and dangerous. When
carrying sprays to the paddock,
cover the container to prevent
splashing. On the other hand
keep the solution agitated to
make sure the concentration is
uniform. x . .
Bury excess spray-material.
Make sure that it does not dram
into dams. Remove clothing
carefully, and use rubber gloves
when washing it.
Always tell someone when you
are going to use chemicals in
a paddock. He can keep an eye
on you in case anything happens.
It is unwise to transfer agri-
cultural chemicals from one con-
tainer to another ; e.g., from glass
to metal. Reaction of the solu-
tion to the container, or
foreign substances in it, can de-
stroy the emulsifying agent, with
consequent changes in concen-
tration.
Distemper
“Wilco”: Distemper kills
hundreds of dogs, especially
around towns, every winter.
Usual course of the disease is
for the dog to have symptoms
of pneumonia and pleurisy, fol-
lowed by coma and emaciation.
Patient and careful nursing over
several weeks may save some
dogs, but few are ever sound
and healthy again.
Partial or complete paralysis
of the limbs, impaired sight,
smell or hearing, mental dull-
ness, epileptic fits, etc., are only
a few of the horrible effects of
distemper.
A dog may appear to recover
completely from an attack, only
to be attacked again by nervous
distemper, accompanied by
terrible fits. It either dies quickly
or has to be destroyed.
The disease is most common
around towns where there are
many stray dogs. But it needs
only one affected town dog to
visit your place to pass the virus
to all your dogs. They’ll get it
then, no matter how well-cared-
for they are.
So, if you value your dogs,
have them immunised against
distemper. It isn’t, as is often
stated, a disease of young dogs
only.
The Synthetic Fibres
“J.F.”: Mention of the
synthetic fibres in last week’s
wool issue suggests that some
consideration of them may
be of interest. Rayon has
been with us for some time, and
its total production is now
enormous. Most speculation
centres around the newer man-
made fibres: the true synthetics
—orlon, dacron, acrilan, terylene
and others—and the protein-
fibres, such as ardil and vicara.
The basic characteristics of
man-made fibres are much the
same. Most of them are easy
to wash, dry quickly, retain shape
(of textiles made from them),
have unusual durability, crease-
and wrinkle-resistance, and are
mildew- and moth-proof. But
they have individual properties,
Let’s look at these qualities in
some of the man-made fibres
already in commercial use:
Rayon: Most absorbent of
man-made materials; can be
made to resemble fibres like wool
and cotton in almost any fabric
construction; washes easily,
slower drying than other man-
made fibres. Some uses: suits,
dresses, blouses, lingerie.
Acetate: Dyes excellently;
contributes draping-quality and
richness to fabrics, soft texture ;
easy to wash, faster drying than
rayon, but slower than other
man-made fibres. Some uses:
luxury fabrics such as satins,
failles, taffetas, decorative fabrics,
lingerie.
Nylon: Unusual strength and
light weight; resistant to wear-
and - tear; low moisture-
absorption power; extreme
elasticity; holds shape (pleats
and creases can be durably set
in the fabric by heat); washes
easily, dries rapidly. Some uses:
lingerie, hosiery, decorative
fabrics, curtains.
Orion: Dry to touch, warmth
without weight, extremely
weather-resistant, pleats can be
ironed in or out; easy to wash
and quick-drying. Some uses:
awnings (outdoors), curtains,
furniture-coverings, suits, dresses.
Dacron: Outstanding wrinkle-
resistance, wet or dry; washes
easily, dries as quickly as nylon,
almost as strong; heat will set
creases and pleats. Some uses:
shirts, suits, sheer fabrics.
Dynel: Wool-like fibre ; easy
to wash, dries quickly; blends
exceptionally well with other
fibres. When blended with cotton
it makes shrinkage-controlled,
warm knitwear; with acetate,
rayon and other fibres it adds
pleat-retention, strength, long life.
Fire-resistance makes it import-
ant in home-furnishing fabrics.
Vicara: Highly absorbent,
washes easily, faster-drying than
wool, slower than other man-
made fibres ; has soft, fine feel of
cashmere; used in blends with
other fibres to add softness and
comfort.
Acrilan : Holds shape, doesn’t
shrink, sag, stretch; good for
use in sweaters and jerseys. Used .
for blankets, as it gives warmth
without weight, washes easily,
won’t mat; blends well with
rayon, crepes and fibres for a
variety of clothing.
Fiberglas: Won’t bum, melt
or char; wrinkle- and sag-
resistant, translucent, sunproof.
Fabrics containing this fibre
never need ironing. Some uses:
curtains, drapery, shower-
curtains.
Saran : Toughest of all fibres ;
particularly good for home-
furnishing fabrics subject to hard
wear. Used in some types of
carpeting.
Fortisan: Won’t weaken or
deteriorate from exposure to
sunlight, won’t shrink or stretch ;
excellent tensile strength wet or
dry, dyes well. Some uses:
curtains, lightweight raincoats.
Mixtures of artificial fibres
with wool are, of course, becom-
ing increasingly popular. There
are certain technical difficulties
for the manufacturer in blending
—the more regular the length of
fibre (as in synthetics) the easier
it is to spin a level yam. As A.
Johnson, textile expert with the
N.S.W. Department of Technical
Education, puts it in an article in
“Wool Technology”:
“On the surface, therefore,
one would imagine that spinners
would be glad to use nothing else
but this regular synthetic fibre for
spinning by roller-drafting
methods. Of course, the pro-
perties of the synthetic fibres
themselves enter the problem,
and it is often found advisable
to mix them with wool or cotton.
But the yarn-manufacturer does
not like to blend fibres for several
reasons: perfect mixing of fibres
is impossible, although many
imperfections escape the eye.
“It is necessary to tint one
set of fibres for easy recognition,
and even this can be a problem if
not carried out perfectly. It is
not difficult to realise the
problems which are caused by
alien fibres being included in
blends with different dyeing
qualities. This means that
machinery has to be cleaned far
more frequently when blends are
processed, in order to eliminate
as far as possible the unwanted
mixing of fibres. Static elec-
tricity, so easily generated by the
synthetic fibres, is but one more
of the worries which face the
manufacturer who mixes these
fibres with his wool.”
In spite of these difficulties in
processing, the yarn-manufac-
turer is encouraged to blend
wool with certain synthetic fibres
“as the latter adds strength to the
yarn and increases its resistance
to abrasion.”
These properties of blends are
well known. But there are others,
less obvious, which “may react
to the advantage of wool.”
In particular, wool-shrinkage,
and the manner in which it can
be controlled. Synthetic fibres
can either increase or decrease
wool’s power to shrink: “which
makes them an interesting tool
in the hands of the textile-
designer.”
Johnson’s summing - up:
“Perhaps it is in applications of
this type that wool and synthetic
fibres will combine most happily,
as they are thereby enhancing
each other’s good points and
hiding features which would be
troublesome in fabrics made
entirely from either fibre.
“Wool is therefore likely to
become as essential to synthetic
fibres as yeast is to bread, and,
as an essential textile ‘leaven’, is
likely to reach heights of expan-
sion undreamed of before the
advent of artificial fibre.”
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, dassers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
Farm Hints
“Vic.”: Don’t forget the liver-
fluke drill. Drench flocks with
sc.c. of single-strength carbon-
tetrachloride except where
infestation is heavy. If fluke is
bad, a 25c.c. to 30c.c. of single-
strength carbon - tetrachloride.
For cattle, hexachlorethane
should be used ; as this is put out
under several trade-names, it
should be applied strictly accord-
ing to directions.
“Jake”: Old land which tends
to waterlog sometimes responds
to a deep-ripping. Economics of
the operation need to be con-
sidered carefully, and great
caution should be exercised
before land of shallow top-soil is
touched. Best to get advice on
this from a Government agricul-
tural expert. Results are not as
lasting as from the ball-and-
chain type of drainer, but cost
per acre is usually cheaper. Best
results when land is ripped
across the normal direction of
row-crop or ploughing cultiva-
tion.
“N.T.”: Examine the blade of
the circular-saw carefully before
you use it next time. Watch out
for any signs of flaws or minute
cracks in the surface. They
could cause the saw to shatter
under load. Remember, a seg-
ment flung from a blade whirl-
ing at about 500 revolutions a
minute can lay a man open as
neatly as a gutted mullet. Better
the price of a new blade.
“H.C.”: On tractors fitted with
“reservoir”-type, oil-filled bear-
ing-hubs, check oil-level at least
once a month. It’s marvellous
how quickly a slight weep will
empty oil from a hub. If, on
inspection, hub is empty, seals
should be renewed.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Communists and the Courts
The committee to be appointed by the
Federal Government to consider Consti-
tutional reform will be faced with an im-
pressive array of problems, and one of
them must surely be the position of com-
missions appointed by the Governor-
General to deal with specific issues.
The Royal Commission inquiring into
the Petrov disclosures is a case in point.
Under the terms of the Commonwealth
Constitution the Executive is powerless to
establish any commission with judicial
powers and authority unless the mem-
bers of the commission are appointed for
life. The palpable weakness, and indeed
the danger, of this Constitutional con-
struction cannot be concealed. Royal
Commissioners confronted by hostile wit-
nesses are powerless to make them con-
form with the proprieties of judicial pro-
cedure. Ihe Petrov commission provided
Australia and the world at large with
the sorry spectacle of commissioners
being subjected to the arrogance and in-
solence of Communist witnesses who
treated the commission’s proceedings with
contempt.
Of course the Communists who were
subpoenaed before the commission simply
followed the long laid-down Communist
precept of deriding the judicatures of
“bourgeois” reactionary countries. The
Central Committee of the Australian
Communist Party, in its “How to
Organise” series, declared:
Our tactics in the public proceedings of
the law court are not tactics of defence but
of attack. Without clinging to legal
formalities, the Communist must use the
trial as a means of bringing his indictment
against the dominant capitalist regime and
courageously voicing the views of his party.
That line was pursued by most Com-
munists who faced the Royal Commis-
sion into the Petrov disclosures.
In courts under State Parliamentary
control such behavior could be promptly
and properly dealt with. The Royal Com-
missioners, who are now preparing their
report on the Petrov affair, are entitled to
the admiration of every right-thinking
Australian. Their patience in most try-
ing circumstances was exemplary. Never
once did they lose sight of the dignity
of their office or the character of their
task. That was no mean feat, particularly
in view of the provocation of Communist
larrikins and Left-wing counsel and the
petulance of Dr. Evatt.
But Australia cannot expect its security
and interests to be safeguarded if Royal
Commissioners are to be denied effective
powers. Responsibility without authority
is a grievous burden.
The Commonwealth Constitution
should be amended to correct this intoler-
able and ludicrous legal position.—
D. J. K. (Q.).
Compulsory Blood-tests
“Macropus” (B. 18/5/’55) has every
right to challenge my comments on the
evidence given in court when a magistrate
dismissed a charge of “driving under
the influence” following a voluntary
blood-test; but I can assure him that I
was not astray in summarising that
evidence. If the evidence was false or
inconsistent, the fault was not mine. I
merely wrote about a set of facts adduced
in a court of petty sessions and care-
fully summarised in a newspaper report.
If “Macropus” is correct in saying that
the analyst’s statement that a concentra-
tion of .05 per cent, of alcohol in the
blood has “entirely no effect” is “ridicu-
lous,” then steps should be taken to
challenge that statement in the proper
way. The magistrate, lam sure, accepted
the evidence in good faith, and will no
doubt continue to accept such expert
testimony at its face-value until it is
proved to be wrong;—M. F. D. (N.S.W.).
Fiji
Although the British Government is
controlling the worst aspects of the Mau
Mau trouble in Kenya, the Colonial
Office has a nearly insoluble racial
problem on its hands in Fiji.
Britain’s record in Fiji, despite current
sneers against “colonialism,” has been
a triumph of administration. When one
recalls that King Thakombau,
from whom the islands were
annexed in 1874, led the most
bloodthirsty cannibal-tribes in
the Pacific, the missionary
record in less than a century is
amazing.
Britain regarded itself as a
trustee and protector of the
rights of the Fijians, who have
repaid careful administration
with loyalty and co-operation.
“Land hunger” is always prevalent in the
Fiji Group, and the Colonial Office has
been careful to prevent exploitation and
prevent the easygoing Fijians from
selling their land unwisely and living for
the moment.
Although the import of indentured
Indian labor to work in the sugar-
industry was cancelled in 1920, the
Indians, because of their birthrate, are
the larger racial entity in the colony.
Actually 80 per cent, of the Indian
population was bom in Fiji, and the
average family unit is ten.
The census of 1948 divulged a total
population in the colony of 277,372 of
all races ; Indians numbered 129,761 and
outnumbered Fijians, who, although
steadily increasing again after the terrible
measles-epidemic of last century, cannot
match the Indian increase.
Although expatriates, the Indian popu-
lation has clung tenaciously to Indian
customs, habits and traditions and care-
fully ingrained them in their children.
India’s flamboyant political agitators
have some counterparts among the Fijian
Indian population. The average Indian
is quiet, peace-loving and law-abiding,
but is easily affected by continual
propaganda. In 1948 the Government of
India became interested in its pseudo-
colony in the Pacific and appointed a
High Commissioner to watch the interests
of Indians. In 1949 political agitators
succeeded in stirring up a demand for
Fiji to be converted into a “colony of
India.”
Although clamor of this kind has
abated, there has since been a simmering
undercurrent of unrest, and, although the
Legislative Council has five Fijian and
five Indian members, Indians are
demanding a greater share in the colony s
government.
There is some ill-feeling between
Fijians and Indians, whose national
characteristics are diametrically opposed,
The Fijian is typically Polynesian,
laughter-loving, faithful, courageous and
generous. That is a contrast to the
serious, hard - working and more
politically-conscious Indians, who,
besides comprising about 90 per cent,
of laboi- for the Colonial Sugar Refinery,
also make up most of the colony’s
other laborers and small traders and
shopkeepers.
So far Britain has preserved a balance
with impartial justice, but the present
precarious situation can be easily upset
by political agitation. Whites who live
in the colony admit freely that a crisis
could easily develop in the foreseeable
future, and Britain will need the patience
and judgment of Solon to find a
“ That'll nark y—no tyres , see!”
solution acceptable to both races in
Fiji.—J. M. T. (Vic.).
Proof Spirit
Without buying into this argument
about compulsory blood-tests for drivers,
I’d like to correct “Macropus’s” figures
on alcohol (B. 18/5/’55).
The legal definition of proof spirit is
“that which at the temperature of 51deg.
F. weighs exactly 12/13th parts of an
equal measure of distilled water.” It
contains, in fact, 49.28 per cent, of
alcohol and 50.72 per cent, of water by
weight, and its specific gravity is 0.91976
at 60deg. F.
The proportion of alcohol by volume in
proof spirit is 57.1 per cent. The strength
of absolute alcohol is 75.35 overproof.
That is, 100 volumes of absolute alcohol
are equivalent to 175.35 volumes of proof
spirit. The relative proportion is there-
fore as four is to seven.
Hence the drink that contains 60 per
cent, proof spirit has 34.3 per cent, abso-
lute alcohol by volume in it. The N.S.W.
beer of 7 per cent, proof spirit contains
4 per cent, absolute alcohol by volume.
Incidentally, the confusion over rela-
tive terms regarding alcoholic content is
responsible for many people saying of
European wines that they are so much
lighter in alcohol than the corresponding
type in Australia. The facts are that a
Bordeaux (French claret-style) wine is
said to be 12 per cent, alcohol, which
refers to its content as absolute alcohol,
and this corresponds exactly to an Aus-
tralian-type claret said to be 21 per cent,
proof spirit.
Again, a Portuguese port or a Spanish
sherry would be said to contain, say,
19 per cent, alcohol. That would be as
absolute alcohol, and their Australian
counterparts would contain 33.3 per cent,
proof spirit.— Blue Friar (N.S.W.).
Public-service Salaries
As a public servant for over 25 years,
I have been amused by the claims of other
public servants for increased rates of pay.
As a body, the State employees are
much better paid than others in similar
occupations in civil life. Admittedly, the
employees of the Commonwealth receive
higher pay than those of the State, but
how do they compare with those engaged
in the commercial world.
The job of costing-clerk, for instance,
would be considered well paid at £2O a
week with a private firm. A similar
position in the Government service would
be rated at about Grade 5, which carries
a present salary of approximately £l2OO
a year.
Only a couple of weeks ago I saw
advertised a job for a clerk who could
dissect invoices, keep ledgers and do
bank-reconciliations, all for a weekly wage
of £l6 10s. The job was with a firm with
a very big business, including hire-pur-
chase, and would entail a lot of work. A
similar job in the Government service
(State) would be at least Grade 3, which
carries a yearly salary of about £llOO.
In addition, the employee of the Gov-
ernment has other perks, including
“special leave” privileges, which are not
usually enjoyed by the worker in the
commercial world.
A while ago I was speaking to a p.s.
who was complaining about his “screw.”
He was in the early twenties and getting
£24 a week. I said, “Where would you
get that wage outside the service?” He
said, candidly, “I wouldn’t.”
No, the public service, despite com-
plaints, is very well-off compared with
others in comparative occupations out-
side the service.
As for teachers, they cry more loudly
than any of the other servants of the
State. But consider the leave of about
eleven weeks a year! On a weekly basis,
if one allows for the normal leave of two
weeks a year, they get about 22-quid a
week to start. And that’s not so bad for a
youngster!
State public servants are very well-off
indeed —far better off than the general
community of workers. And as for Com-
monwealth employees! They are mag-
nificently paid when one sees the work
that they do. Some of them would not
earn bread-and-butter in a private show.
I except from that statement the heads
of the sundry departments, who do not
receive their due in many cases. —
O’Rhyncus (N.S.W.).
The Dumb Speak
I know a small boy—a bright young
Australian —who had the misfortune to
be born a “deaf mute.” Several years
ago he began to attend a school at Ash-
field (N.S.W.) which specialised in the
training of such cases. The school was
formerly a private affair run by women
who had been trained at Manchester
University, but it has recently been taken
over by the N.S.W. Department of Edu-
cation, though the same staff still looks
after the children.
The youngsters are given all the usual
education, but are also taught lip-read-
ing and to speak. Within a few weeks of
his enrolment my young friend was able
to enunciate clearly a number of words
and now has quite a vocabulary. Pro-
vided one takes the trouble to form the
words well and speaks fairly slowly, the
boy is also able to understand a good
deal of what is said to him.
Only oral training is given at this
school and parents suspected of taking
the easy way and allowing the kiddies to
make use of signs are at once reprimanded
by the teachers. At the Christmas “break-
up” plays are presented in which these
“deaf and dumb” youngsters actually
speak the parts. Some of the actors, as
might be expected, have a certain amount
of trouble with tonal values, but a few
of them are astonishingly good and only
occasionally have difficulty with intona-
tion. The diction, on the whole, is better
than that of most children.
Great work is being done by this
school to help these young folk enter the
normal life of the community. Accord-
ing to statistics, only 4 per cent, of the
deaf and dumb in England are totally
deaf —96 per cent, of them have hearing
of some kind. At present it is likely
that only the most intelligent of these
children learn to speak fluently, but with
improvement in hearing-devices it may
not be long before most of the deaf will
hear. Once they can do so, learning to
speak is only a matter of time, instruc-
tion and practice, for the majority are
mute solely because they do not hear.
—Maitre (N.S.W.).


Education
Despite all that is being spouted about
“new education” today, children in
N.S.W. are not being taught as they
should be. The Minister’s report to
Parliament each year makes pretty reading
—so many thousands spent here and so
many spent there —but all that results is
a show-school here and there (Manly
Boys’ High or Dover Heights, for ex-
ample). The rest of the State schools are
in the same deplorable condition that
they were in 20 years ago.
The N.S.W. Department of Health and
the Department of Labor and Industry
police the conditions in factories, but
nobody ever looks at the schools. All
over the State local-government authori-
ties are threatening to sue headmasters
because of insanitary conditions in
schools, yet the Department of Education
is still getting away with it. Anything is
good enough for the kids. Similar condi-
tions for apprentices would bring a
factory-owner a fine of £5O.
Ten years ago the Teachers’ Federa-
tion was warning the department that
1955-58 would be the crisis-years in
enrolment, and yet no provision has
been made to meet them. All that is done
is to slap-up a portable room here and
there and thus filch a bit more of the
playground from the kids. As enrolment
at schools increases, the playing-areas
grow smaller.
This restriction of the playing-area has
a serious effect on discipline. Too many
rules have to be made: “You must not
run,” “You must not play this game or
that game”—rules that are necessary for
safety’s sake and yet do not give the kids
a chance. They can only obey the lot by
creeping into the playground and sitting
in some corner until the bell goes, then
creeping into class. Or they are being
punished for breaking rules that should
not exist.
I expect my child to be taught, not just
lectured. His teacher is competent and
well-trained, yet he is not teaching my
lad. The boy suffers from the disability
of being a left-hander and has just
entered the stage where he is to write with
ink. Not once has he been shown how
to handle this new medium.
The reason for this is not the teacher
but the Department of Education. The
class of 54 boys is too large and does not
allow any teacher to help those children
who need it. If the teacher were to spend
five minutes with each lad each day,
then 4\ out of the total of 4| hours would
be used. That of course is ridiculous, yet
a child is entitled to at least five minutes
of the teacher’s time for individual help.
Until the department does something
about overloaded classes we are going to
have badly taught children.
Constant tinkering with the curriculum
does not help. Before the war a boy in
his second year of secondary school
received 12 40-minute periods of mathe-
matics each week. Today he is lucky to
get eight such periods. The others have
gon6 into physical education, music, art
and drama. That in itself is not a bad
thing perhaps, but he is now getting a
little bit of everything and not much of
anything. The idea seems to be that the
child must be interested rather than made
to learn.
It is time the “new education” move-
ment stopped for a while and looked back
at the bad old days. There was much in
the education of the past that could very
profitably be used today. The child did
learn something of value while he was at
school, which he is not doing today. This
business of training a child to be a good
citizen rather than teaching him his three
“Rs” was not given much prominence 40
years ago. Yet the leaders of today, com-
mercially, politically and militarily, are all
products of the “old education.”
I want my child taught to read, write
and add-up. He cannot do these things
at present, and the way his education is
going he never will. — Obadiah B.
(N.S.W.).
“Migrants, Good and Bad”
Gavin Casey’s article, “Migrants, Good
and Bad” (B. 4/5/’55), overlooked an im-
portant difference between the social
structures of Australian and European
communities. The gap between “lower”
and “higher” classes in Europe is defin-
itely more accentuated than in this
country. A European peasant or laborer
is a very primitive individual, certainly
inferior to his Australian counterpart.
But the position seems reversed where a
European “white-collar” worker is con-
cerned.
In Poland, as well as in other Central
European countries, a man who aspired
to a desk-job was expected to pass
through an elementary school (four years)
“If’s a pressure-copper—boils the clothes in three minutes !”
and a “gymnasium” (eight years) where,
apart from acquiring general education,
he studied Latin and one or two modern
languages. He usually also studied-
depending on the type of “gymnasium”—
ancient Greek for four years. If he had
any ambition to get ahead in the world,
he would go to a University, most
frequently choosing law. Thus a junior
Government- or bank-clerk often had 16
years of tuition behind him.
A similar class of “intelligentsia” does
not exist in Australia. Except for a small
group of intellectuals, a white-collar
worker, or even a professional man, does
not have to know anything besides his
technical qualifications. 1 have met a
number of Australian professional men
and found them intensely boring. And
I gathered that this feeling was recipro-
cated. By no stretch of imagination could
they be described as men of culture. The
only Australians whose society I have
enjoyed disliked their own country, and
wished to go to Europe.
I think that old and new Australians
could mutually benefit by civilising each
other. An Australian laborer might im-
part some of his own higher culture to a
European of the same standing, while
a European white-collar man could try to
improve the culture of his Australian
colleague. So far, however, I have not
observed much willingness on the part of
either old or new Australians to learn
from one another.
Unless they develop such willingness,
Mr. Casey’s hope that “the new Australia
will be better than the old one” has small
chance of fulfilment. —A. E. S. (Q.).
Australia—U.K. Freight-rates
Despite statements to the contrary,
Australia-U.K. freight-rates for parcels
of grain are not affected by the proposed
10 per cent, increase announced by the
U.K. liner-companies. These hope to
secure the increase by the expiry date of
the present contract, August 31, 1955.
It is usual for an agreement to be made
covering a two-yearly period forward.
The items covered by the agreement are
general cargo and allied lines, including
wool.
Grain-rates have never been the subject
of an agreement, because they are based
on the daily operations of the London
Baltic Exchange. This exchange operates
for the purpose of enabling tramp-owners
to decide where and when they will offer
their vessels. The main items covered in
the Baltic Exchange are coal and grain.
The tramp-owner may be likened to a
taxi-driver who is willing to offer his
cab in any direction for a stated fee,
whereas the liner-companies maintain a
regular scheduled run to and from given
points. ,
Gram is normally carried around the
world on a bulk or full-cargo basis—i.e.,
there is only the one type of cargo in the
ship. The rates of freight that are obtain-
able by an owner on the Baltic Exchange
depend entirely on the law of demand
and supply. This is like any other
market, and can vary daily—e.g., today
a full cargo of bulk-wheat from Australia
to U.K. will cost about 115 s. to 120 s.
sterling per ton, whereas a month ago it
was 955. to 100 s., and 12 months ago
about 85s. If the demand for tonnage
by grain-buyers throughout the world
should slacken, then rates would immedi-
ately recede ; so that in the long run the
rates of freight for grain are as difficult
to judge as is the average price of a share
on the Stock Exchange.
As far as Australia is concerned, quite
apart from full cargoes of wheat (and
barley), substantial quantities are lifted
by the liner-companies as “filling” cargo,
which gives them some weight in the
lower holds before they commence load-
ing general cargo and wool on top of it.
The rates of freight for these parcels of
grain are assessed by a committee in
London which bases the rate on the pre-
vailing conditions of the Baltic Exchange.
Such rates do not vary daily or even
weekly, because it would be impracticable
for the smooth running of business
operations, but it is not unusual to find
as many as seven or eight variations a
year. Generally speaking, they are
about 10-15 per cent, above the rate
chargeable by a tramp-liner for a full
cargo. Such primary products as oats,
sorghum, maize and barley, and resultant
manufactured lines such as flour, bran
and pollard, are shipped in’ parcels by
the liner-companies on the freight-rates
as ascertained from time to time by the
committee in London.
Included in the proposed 10 per cent,
increase for general cargo are lines such
as:
All tinned commodities, including
fruit, jam, vegetables and milk.
Leather, hides, skins and tallow.
Glycerine, sausage-skins, beans, house-
hold effects and furniture, onions, and
hundreds of miscellaneous items.
It is here that criticism comes along.
These lines are basically manufactured or
semi-processed ones and, as our Austra-
lian costs are already largely uncompeti-
tive, a further increase of 10 per cent, on
freight would make things still more
difficult. — Windjammer (N.S.W.).
Sydney’s Opera-house
Unlike editorial writers in the Sydney
daily press, I see nothing to rejoice about
in the decision of the Cahill Govern-
ment to build an opera-house at' east
Circular Quay. A minority of people
will be pleased, of course, and no doubt
Mr. Cahill will preserve in his private
and official records “S. M. Herald’s”
editorial comment that the choice of the
site was an “act of rare imagination” on
his Government’s part.
But what of the great majority of
people who hear or read almost daily
that scores of urgent uncompleted works
cannot be carried any further because
there is “no money”? Will they applaud
Mr. Cahill’s decision to sink at least
£1,000,000 in a luxury opera-house? I
think not. If Sydney wants an opera-
house, let Sydney pay for it.
It could easily happen, too, that the
advent of TV will change the whole
entertainment-outlook in Australia ; and
that even the people who “adore opera”
will prefer to see it in their homes, in
which case a suitable studio would be a
practical substitute for a costly opera-
house.
If I have any say in it, country people
will make the Sydney opera-house an
issue in the next State elections. When
Mr. Cahill and his Ministers try to win
votes with talk of “decentralisation and
development,” they will be asked exactly
how much the opera-house is going to
contribute to the welfare of the State as
a whole, and particularly that of country
people, who are the real winners of
national wealth.
What about completing a few more
hospitals, roads and bridges before
attempting to sell the opera-house idea
to the people of N.S.W. ? — Peter Simple
(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 333
ACROSS
I—Yellow River feature donkey or
tiff basis for Doulton’s
tears? (6, 6)
B—Rival8 —Rival with a French biography. (3)
10—A breakfast course takes me and
a Balt to heart. (8)
12— Ventilating the first-class Wag-'
nerian tetralogy. (6)
13 — This makes a Spanish hero
sour. (4)
15— Within certain walls travelling
by streetcar mountains. (10)
16— Two articles written by this
girl. (4)
17— Where one might expect the dead
serious measures to be taken. (10)
20—Settles French country. (4)
22 Gama rounded this garment
publisher in England. (4)
23 — The lower part of the brain makes
five score before the war. (10)
25 — None drops from a tooth battle-
field where Henry of Navarre
succeeded. (4)
26 — 50-1, the price at the start, and
the one who increases it and
who blames? (10)
29 Palm firms. (4)
30 — A great city novelist introduces
two boys, one with the head 10
times bigger than the other’s. (6)
31 — Diana's bewhiskered cricketer has
a reason for hanging the head. (8)
34 — The French name for a great
African river duck. (3)
35 Course I’m a hat knocked about
by a continent heath behind a
Warwickshire city. (5, 7)
DOWN
1 — Shutting up a small business and
opening also. (7)
2 Not fitting to write up in it. (5)
3 Looked for the mean hail and
stormed to swear against the
venerable. (8)
4 I am in the way to mind some-
body else’s kids. (3)
5 Egyptian god hardened. (3)
6 Roman writer indicates the shape
of a modern coin over six-
pence. (4)
7 The keynote cogs the disfigure-
ments of pages. (3-4)
9 —lt helps to steer a natural
swimmer feature of many a
railway signal, but is it half
different? (4-4)
11 — Corn holds this listener. (3)
12— Go crook? (3)
14 —Sporting porter makes a heel kick
the bucket. (6)
18 — Evident child of a child-producer
in Wales? (8)
19 — Effective service with a twitch like
vinegar. (6)
21 — Racecourse town in N.S.W. where
blokes fish. (8)
22 A famous member for Macquarie
is chiefly misrepresented. (7)
24 —Filly’s mother upset Lincoln in
a Queensland where a beer
morning rises. (7)
26 Put on a great river Juan. (3)
27 Turf cad. (3)
28 — Algerian cavalryman in a ship. (5)
29 — Sydney suburb has business with
a comedian. (4)
32 — Batting against one girl. (3)
33 It is he, Alastair. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 332


m.
ft
KK-
saw
7
■ * vp
i//
CagF
W
m
1W
=7
£
*55?
\
i
*&■#&* •->.;..
v*xr>2#vrsiK
»*i'«m.n»» l" 1 *"
£*£-*-*-*
*
is. . .-d?
©
Ixjfr
“It may surprise you to know,” remarked the Service
Manager, “that we keep a complete record of every machine
we sell—its serial number, who bought it, spares supplied,
service carried out, and so on.”
“In fact,” he said, a smile creasing his eyes, “we look after
it from the cradle to the grave.”
The ’phone jangled and he lifted the receiver.
“Hello*—yes, Fred. . . who? Yes. . . okay. . . right. . . tell
him we’ll get somebody on the job this afternoon. What’s
that? Sure! Tell him to stop worrying!”
“Chap wants some service on a D 4,” he said, replacing the
receiver and reaching for a pen. “We’ll get a man out this
afternoon. A machine out of commission is a machine that’s
not earning its keep. Time means money to the farmer and
the contractor. Take that job down at the Snowy last
Friday. . .”
“One of the big contracting companies working down there
rang through at 5 p.m. wanting a replacement starter motor
for one of their Caterpillar D 8 Tractors. As I said before, a
non-working machine is a non-profit machine, so we arranged
for young Don Marshall—you’ve met Don. . . good service
man —to leave here that night, Friday, at 7.30 with the motor
in a 15-cwt. utility. He drove till 2 o’clock in the morning,
had a bit of snooze in the truck cabin and got going again at
6 a.m. Saturday. He was on the job at 11.15 a.m., getting
the new motor off with a fork-lift they had ready.”
“It was a Caterpillar D 8 Tractor, fitted with an 8A bulldozer
blade—a pretty useful piece of equipment. Naturally, they
wanted to get it into operation. Don Marshall set to and
installed the new motor (did a few other odd service jobs
while he was about it) and everybody was happy.”
He swivelled round in his chair and stabbed a finger at us.
“Don’t think,” he said, “that this is spectacular. It’s not.
We’re doing that sort of thing day in, day out. There’s a sort
of parental feeling about it. They’re our babies —aud we
take care of our own.”
# • • •
All over Australia, farmers, contractors and shire
engineers know the meaning of Caterpillar service. There
are no Caterpillar orphans. It doesn’t matter how old or
what type of Caterpillar machine it is: it has a direct line
right to the heart of its birthplace. Spare parts. . .genuine
spares made by the factory which made the original. . .
service, by men who know it intimately—these are the things
that count.
Caterpillar service is service.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTvRS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Distributors:
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
QLD.: HASTINGS DEERING—QUEENSLAND PTY.
LTD., BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
TAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., ENFIELD.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DEERING (N.T.) PTY.
LIMITED, ALICE SPRINGS.
NEW GUINEA: HASTINGS DEERING [NEW GUINEA)
PTY. LIMITED, LAE.
