

/
m
SOLERO
SWEET OK DR
£**Ssn
I'3"JULl9ssl|?
fct
The Bulletin
SPLENDID SHORT-STORIES — PAGES 20 AND 22
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3935
Wednesday, July 13, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W, Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No, 254: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
THE ENGLAND OF BYGONE DAYS STILL LIVES IN YORK MUSEUM
ART-GALLERIES and museums in Britain are famous for their variety
and richness, but the nation's treasures are not confined only to London.
Here, for example, is a section of the unique Castle Museum, York; a
cobbled street lined with shops, which depicts the daily life, activities and
occupations of a century ago.
It was opened in 1938, and is now regarded as one of the leading folk-
museums in Britain, and owes its origin to Dr. J. L. Kirk, a noted antiquary,
of Pickering. He spent his lifetime collecting the widest range of personal
and domestic objects connected with the daily life of people in York and
neighboring districts. This unique collection reached such massive propor-
tions that accommodation became a problem until the York Corporation
allocated a building suitable for exhibiting these relics of former ways of
life.
A striking feature of the museum is its cobbled “street,” a composite
structure representing a typical thoroughfare of a Yorkshire town a century
ago. The atmosphere of bygone days is admirably created in a setting cover-
ing various periods from Tudor to Victorian times. The variety of trades
represented include a wine-merchant, silversmith, coppersmith, glassmaker,
pewterer and apothecary.
In addition to the shops there is a tallow-dip factory, a fire-station, a
coaching-house and, standing on the cobbled roadway, is a hansom-cab,
complete with horse and “cabby.”
Another part of the museum shows genuine shop-fronts of the Georgian
and Regency periods covering a further range of trades, such as clockmaker,
cordwainer and saddler. In the workrooms behind the shop-fronts can be
seen in authentic detail the methods of craftsmanship, the tools and equip-
ment used in making the products on view.
Other remarkable collections of wide variety are shown in galleries on
the upper floors of the building, where furnished Period Rooms illustrate
household life in the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. There can be seen, for
example, the interior of a moorland cottage with stone-flagged floor, turf
fire, rushlights and the family four-poster bed.


Let BOOKHUNTER select and buy your
books for you. Write now to BOOK-
HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney. Quick
service moderate charges.
The Red Page
CHARLES DARWIN DROPS IN
What a pity it is that Charles
Darwin was in such a bad temper
when he dropped into New Zealand
and Australia.
Everywhere else in The Voyage of
the Beagle, lately reprinted in Every-
man’s Library, it is his springing,
youthful enthusiasm that makes the
book such a delight; and it was
certainly not wild country that he
objected to, for whether he is riding
the deserts of northern Chile with the
gauchos or climbing Mount Tarn in
the rain-forests of Tierra del Fuego one
can always sense the elation under-
lying his descriptions of the most
forbidding places: —
So thick was the wood that it was
necessary to have constant recourse
to the compass; for every land-
mark, though in a mountainous
country, was completely shut out.
In the deep ravines, the death-like
scene of desolation exceeded all
description ; outside it was blowing
a gale, but in these hollows not even
a breath of wind stirred the leaves
of the tallest trees. So gloomy, cold
and wet was every part that not even
the fungi, the mosses or ferns could
flourish. In the valleys it was
scarcely possible to crawl along, they
were so completely barricaded by
great mouldering trunks, which had
fallen down in every direction.
But in New Zealand and Australia,
nothing either dry or wet seems to
have pleased him. He didn’t like the
Maoris in New Zealand:—
There is a twinkling in the eye
which cannot indicate anything but
cunning and ferocity. Both their
persons and their houses are filthily
dirty and offensive: the idea of
washing either their bodies or their
clothes never seems to enter their
heads.
He didn’t like the scenery:—
The surface appears from the
distance as if clothed with coarse
pasture, but this in truth is nothing
but fern.... In several parts of the
bay little villages of square, tidy-
looking houses are scattered close
down to the water’s edge. Three
whaling-ships were lying at anchor,
and a canoe every now and then
crossed from shore to shore ; with
these exceptions, an air of extreme
quietness reigned over the whole
district. Only a single canoe came
alongside. This, and the aspect of
the whole scene, afforded a remark-
able, and not very pleasing contrast,
with our joyful and boisterous
welcome at Tahiti.
And, in fact, he didn’t like anything
about it:—
In the afternoon we stood out of
the Bay of Islands, on our course to
Sydney. I believe we were all glad
to leave New Zealand. It is not a
pleasant place. Amongst the natives
there is absent that charming sim-
plicity which is found at Tahiti; and
the greater part of the English are
the very refuse of society. Neither
‘is the country itself attractive. I
look back to but one bright spot,
and that is Waimate, with its
Christian inhabitants.
And all of this written of the Bay of
Islands, where the snapper teem by the
thousand, where the mighty sword-
fish are caught, where the green ridge
of Tapeka strides out to meet the sea,
where Long Beach lies in its lovely
white solitary curve and where three-
hundred islands sleep green and purple
in the haze over the warm blue waters
—an earthly Paradise!
Australia came off just as badly.
True, having seen Sydney, and what
had been done in the few years since
it was founded, “many times more than
an equal number of centuries have
effected in South America,” Mr.
Darwin was moved to “congratulate
myself that I was born an English-
man”; but, on seeing more of the town
afterwards, “perhaps,” he adds, “my
admiration fell a little.” And it con-
tinued to fall.
The whole community, he found, was
“rancorously divided into parties on
almost every subject.” The whole
population was “bent on acquiring
wealth.” Amongst the better classes
many lived “in such open profligacy
that respectable people cannot associ-
ate with them”; and it was equally
trying to be forced to associate with
the convicts: —
How thoroughly odious to every
feeling, to be waited on by a man
who the day before, perhaps, was
flogged, from your representation,
for some trifling misdemeanor. The
female servants are, of course, much
worse: hence children learn the
vilest expressions, and it is for-
tunate, if not equally vile ideas.
The country, when he set off for
Bathurst to inspect it, was indeed
relieved by a view in the Blue Moun-
tains from the Weatherboard Inn (pre-
sumably near Katoomba), which he
found “magnificent”; but in general
When once on the sandstone plat-
form the scenery becomes exceed-
ingly monotonous ; each side of the
road is bordered by scrubby trees
of the never-failing Eucalyptus
family ; and with the exception of
two or three small inns, there are
no houses or cultivated land: the
road, moreover, is solitary ; the most
frequent object being a bullock-
piled up with bales of
wool.
What with one thing and another,
New South Wales soon convinced him
that “nothing but rather sharp necessity
should compel me to emigrate.” Tas-
mania, where he plunged into forests
which reminded him of Tierra del
Fuego, pleased him better; and when
he came back to the mainland to stay
at King George’s Sound he saw a
corroboree which excited his magnifi-
cent powers of description almost to
the extent of some of his South
American scenes:—
There was one called the Emu
dance, in which each man extended
his arms in a bent manner, like the
neck of that bird. In another dance
one man imitated the movements of
a kangaroo grazing in the woods,
whilst a second crawled up and
pretended to spear him. When both
tribes mingled in the dance the
ground trembled with the heaviness
of their steps, and the air resounded
with their wild cries. Everyone
appeared in high spirits, and the
group of nearly naked figures,
viewed by the light of the blazing
fires, all moving in hideous harmony,
formed a perfect display of a festi-
val amongst the lowest barbarians.
In Tierra del Fuego we have beheld
many curious scenes in savage life,
but never, I think, one where the
natives were in such high spirits.
Yet, alas, the final comment upon
King George’s Sound is, “We staid
there eight days; and we did not
during our voyage pass a more dull and
uninteresting time”....
Farewell, Australia! you are a
rising child, and doubtless some day
will reign a great princess in the
South: but you are too great and
ambitious for affection, yet not great
enough for respect. I leave your
shores without sorrow or regret.
These are surely very naughty words.
Admittedly “Kororadika,” as Darwin
spelt Kororareka, now Russell, was a
pretty tough town in those days with
whalers and runaway convicts corrupt-
ing the Maoris and making a carnival
of rum and lust by the quiet waters;
and apparently even then the bush had
been felled from Flagstaff Hill (which,
incredibly, someone was slicing-up with
a bulldozer last time the present
reviewer saw it). And admittedly the
traveller saw Bathurst at its worst, in
the midst of a drought in a tempera-
ture of 119 . . . but still these were
very superficial' observations for a
scientist. And what possible justifica-
tion had Mr. Darwin for quitting both
these southern shores with such
unmannerly glee?
One suspects that here he became
the English critic abroad, disdainfully
inspecting the Colonies much as
Dickens inspected America. But there
is another, much more disarming
excuse. As he himself frankly admits,
after four years away in the Beagle,
he was tired: all he could say on the
way from Tahiti to New Zealand was,
“Now every league, it made us happy
to think, was one league nearer to
England.”
But one makes these points only for
their local interest. It is an abiding
pleasure to have had Charles Darwin
dropping in, even if he dropped out
again so abruptly. The permanent
interest of his book —apart from his
theory on coral formations, which
everyone has heard of—is in the
wonderful travel- and Nature-writing
when, at the age of 23, fascinated with
everything he saw from ants to Indians,
from fossils to fowls, he burst ashore
in South America to make his long
camping-trips over the Chilean deserts,
with a fine disregard for the danger
from the roving bands of Indians who
were then undergoing the tribulations
of a war of extermination, or to study
the naked savages of Tierra del Fuego
in their sodden and icy jungles —
enduring with complacence surely the
most wretched conditions that have
ever fallen to the ,lot of man: “In
another harbor not far distant, a
woman, who was suckling a recently
bom child, came one day alongside the
vessel, and remained there out of mere
curiosity, whilst the sleet fell and
thawed on her naked bosom, and on
the skin of her naked baby!”
Other recent Every mans include:
Mikhail Schedrin’s The Golovlyov
Family, a novel which in contrast to
other Russian rediscoveries such as
Goncharov’s delightfully humorous
study of the lazy hero of Oblomov,
picks up for acute observation a
singularly repulsive set of characters;
Dante’s Divine Comedy in the standard
Cary translation —it badly needs
redoing in a more up-to-date conven-
tion; Turgenev’s Fathers and Sons, a
rather thin lot of stuff, never to be
compared with the immortal Smoke;
Defoe’s Moll Flanders and Milton’s
Areopagitica, both of which, for vary-
ing reasons, should always be studied
by politicians interested in banning
literature; the glorious Tom Jones of
Fielding which you have only to open
at random to find Squire Western, the
greatest of' his kind since Falstaff,
“lamenting, in very pathetic terms, the
unfortunate condition of men, who are,
says he, ‘always whipt in by the
humors of some d -n’d b or
other’ ”; and Homer’s Iliad in a new
translation by S. O. Andrew, com-
pleted by Michael Oakley, a clear and
swift-moving version, in which, never-
theless, the self-conscious archaisms
and jog-trotting anapaests fail to give
the freshness of the best 20th-century
translations —there is really no valid
reason for assuming that Homer spelt
“ceas’d” with an apostrophe nor that
he said “deem’d” instead of “thought.”
SALON-ARIA
All the world was wonderful
Years and years ago:
I wondered: were we in love, then,
And how was I to know?
I took lessons from the masks
At the pictureshow;
Where I could, I applied them . . .
1 know what love is, now:
It is not lies, but errors,
Not fantasies, but doubt;
A meeting of mirrors
Whose dreams fall out,
And broken glass to curse
And phantoms to forget,
And splinters of remorse,
And worse, worse—regret.
See it from this point of view:
How fortunate, how right
You were, to share my morning
And not my night.
n.s.w.
RONALD McCUAIG.
Press, Theatre, Television
In The Way of My World (Collins;
Angus and Robertson) Ivor Brown,
the authority on words and plays and
former editor of the London Sunday
“Observer,” looks back over his life
the old London “Herald,” before
Odham’s made it respectable, where
the reporters wrote their stories on
the floor or walls when the furniture
was removed for debt; the “Manchester
Guardian” and the peculiarities of its
famous editor, Scott; the “Week-End
Review,” the “Saturday Review” and
(he “Observer.”
In retrospect, it is all a little thin;
but the interest of the book is in the
clarity with which he sees it, the
unemphatic purity of his writing, which
adds to the force of his judgments and
comparisons. He is at his best when
he comes to the theatre, with memories
and assessments of Beerbohm, Walkley.
Agate, St. John Irvine, Archer, etc.;
and, among players, of Mrs. Campbell
as Hedda Gabler, Laughton as Angelo
—he fines it down from the hundreds
or thousands of players he must have
seen to a very few: the “short-lived
Meggie Albanesi” who “kindled a
torch of humanity amid the intellectual
gloom”: —
Perhaps the actress most posses-
sing the incandescent power today is
Irene Worth. For the perfection of
a gentler, lamplit style we have, at
too rare intervals, Celia Johnson.
When he has said his say the reader
can agree with Mr. Brown’s remark:
“That is theatre, as far removed from
the show business as a candle-gleam
from a monster festival of fireworks.”
Indeed, he makes the Australian reader
envious. It must be something to have
seen Laughton’s Angelo: —
Yet his Angelo stays shiversome
in the mind, a writhing flabbiness of
cold desire, with the right snow-
broth for blood.
During the recent war Mr. Brown
was director of drama for the Council
for Encouragement of Music and the
Arts under the chairmanship of Lord
Keynes. The basis of C.E.M.A. was a
cheque for two million sterling handed
over after dinner by an American to
a party of distinguished Englishmen in
recognition of Britain’s War I effort.
In 1952-53 it subsidised Covent
Garden opera and ballet to the tune
of £265,000. The total spent on opera
and ballet alone was £347,275. He
considers television a doubtful bargain
for a star; and
At present I view its effectiveness
as working in an ugly, totalitarian
way... . Fortunately the British are
better than most at defeating hypnot-
ism by spell-binders, and the spell
of the domestic screen may not, after
all, be as potent as I sometimes fear.
I can only hope so.
The Savage Mountain
Mountaineering books have been
coming in an avalanche since Hillary
climbed Everest, but even in the. mass
of them K 2; the Savage Mountain, by
Charles Houston and Robert Bates
(Collins), stands out as strikingly as
the jagged peak after which it is named
towers from the Karakoram range,
900 miles away from Everest and only
752 ft. lower than it, the second-highest
mountain in the world. It is the story
of a terrific battle for life.
When the American party went to
it in 1953, at a cost of 30,000 dollars
for this comparatively modest expedi-
tion, K 2 had already killed one of
their countrymen; in 1939 when
a tiny tent with one American in it
clung to a small shelf of snow, which
projected out above thousands ot
feet of empty space. In this tent,
remote from civilisation, lay Dudley
Wolfe, of Boston, cut off completely
from his closest companions, who
were thousands of feet below him ...
Three Sherpas made an amazing climb
to rescue Wolfe; found him too weak
to travel and arranged to come back
next day; which they did and wha
happened after that nobody knows.
Wolfe and the three Sherpas were never
seen again. .
The mountain very nearly did the
same thing to the entire party in In-
(Continued an page 35)


Type here type there 9 type anywhere with a
sr
m
n.
X
Above: EMPIRE ARISTOCRAT, £3O, weighs only Bflb. Can be carried
in attache case. Deposit £6.
Vrade m in your °W Typewriter
M 2 manths guarantee
Easy Verms (Deposit from £6)
A portable can be used wherever the occasion arises—
in the garden; at the beach; in bed or whilst travelling
by plane, train or car. People who use typewriters most
—doctors, dentists, writers and students —prefer a portable
for lightness and convenience. Box 2712, G.P.O. 80951.
A
A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
nthony Horderns’
Doctors
r-
O'
mmm
mmmm
■
IMS
r^>.
WBm
I
m
:{ : $
j w / H
? /
r<
Dentists
l|| "* :?«?: 38 5
Si ,' '' J
Sfe*;*'- iiFx.i
7
»«
BHi
■1
F
pP^
Writers
tliir 5 ■
..
'L'i
y<4
i
aA
Students
"SgSsSB
:y-'
m
REMINGTON, £49/10/-, or with
tabulator, £55/10/-, features an
exclusive super strength frame and
finger fitted keys. Deposit £ll.
wm
OLYMPIA, £49, or with the tabu-
lator, £55, features a spring loaded
keytop for easy cushioned action.
Deposit £ll.
:
§BO.
IMPERIAL GOOD COM-
PANION, S39/10/-, two type styles.
Deposit £B. imperial No. 3 with
tabulator, £46. Deposit £9.
■■■ &
OLIVETTI LETTERA 22,
£39/15/-, features a personal touch
control device that can be set in
four different positions. Deposit £B.
-
mt
OLIVER COURIER, £35, which
features an 88 character keyboard,
is very light in weight. In compact
carrying case. Deposit £7.
*43
A
mm
i Sj
ii- >•'
| 40 W 'B
ft*
gSpy
HERMES BABY, £35, is the
smallest, lightest typewriter in the
world. Weighs only 81b. Deposit £7.
Hermes 2,000, £4B. Deposit £lO.
TYPEWRITER DEPARTMENT, GROUND FLOOR* PITT STREET, BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 13, 19SS
Vol. 76—No. 3935
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Director*:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adam* K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;]
*Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
ONUS ON THE GOVERNMENT
THE Prime Minister has said that if specific
charges are made and reliable witnesses are forth-
coming he is ready to appoint a commission to
inquire into the operations of Raymond Fitzpatrick,
of Bankstown, now in jail for breach of
Parliamentary privilege.
Mr. Menzies is no muckraker. But his approach
in the circumstances is difficult to understand; a
few years ago he was only less eager for inquiry
than the present official leader of the House of
Representatives, Sir Eric Harrison. He might well
refresh his memory by turning back the pages of
“Hansard” and decide whether what went on in the
House at times during 1944 and 1946 was all sound
and fury.
The attacks on Fitzpatrick are not new. They
were begun by Mr. Morgan in 1943. On December
14, 1943, Morgan wrote to Mr. Dedman, then
Minister for War Organisation of Industry, and
asked certain questions. He waited three months
for an answer, and then, on March 7 (“Hansard,”
1944, p. 1055), raised the matter on the adjourn-
ment to call attention to a “serious breach of the
building-regulations” which he said had developed
during the past six or nine months, and of which
knowledge was common in Bankstown. He said
that it involved Raymond Fitzpatrick, “prior to
the war a small backyard-contractor,” who “seemed
to have achieved affluence” during the war and who
had stated during a recent court case that he had
plant worth £70,000.
Mr. Morgan alleged that approval had been
given by Mr. Dedman’s department for additions
to an iron shed on Fitzpatrick’s property to the
extent of £lOO, but that he had succeeded in build-
ing a shed 140 ft. or 150 ft. long, 60ft. wide, and
30-40 ft. high with steel-girder frame and sides and
roof of corrugated-fibro, the roof having 24 glass-
windows. He said that the building—valued at
£3OOO or so—was large enough to house aero-
planes, and subsequently alleged that it had been
built with material removed by Fitzpatrick’s lorries
from Bankstown aerodrome, and erected with a
crane which had been brought from the aerodrome.
Fitzpatrick had also, he alleged, built a double-
garage costing up to £3OO on a permit secured from
the Bankstown Council on plans to cost £27; and
this building fronted a concrete road which had
been constructed and diverted by the council to
pass Fitzpatrick’s building, the only edifice benefited
by the diversion. Fitzpatrick was charged with
having supplied most of the material for this road.
All this work, in any case, would have called
for a variety of permits from the W. 0.1.,
Mr. Dedman’s department, and from “Manpower.”
Mr. Bellemore, of the Manpower Department,
promptly made inquiries, and was told that the
buildings were erected and some thousands of
square yards of concrete yard put down by the
lorry-drivers whom Fitzpatrick employed, working
on wet days, when they could not pursue their
ordinary avocations. Fitzpatrick said that the
electricity installation and other specialist jobs had
been done by three separate firms.
Mr. Dedman showed no inclination to explain
anything. He rnet repeated requests and attacks
in Parliament with the excuse that inquiries took a
long time, and when brought to bay eventually
declared tersely that most of the work had been
done before permits were necessary, though he
showed no inclination to give dates and specific
information. Mr. Morgan countered this by saying
that he had written to the Minister on various
occasions and had spoken to him several times,
that the Minister had conferred with the Attorney-
General two months earlier and that his own
department had expressed the opinion that there
were “flagrant breaches of the National Security
Regulations under a number of headings.” He
added: “I know, and the Minister knows, that
certain influences are at work in an endeavor to
block investigations.”
All the satisfaction which Morgan obtained
from Mr. Dedman was an epithet applied to him-
self by the Minister in the House which Mr. Morgan
himself declared to be “b—— b ” (it is printed
in “Hansard” in full); Mr. Dedman declared that
his victim had not heard aright, though what he
had actually said was “very personal” to him.
When the matter was raised for the severalth
time in the House of Representatives in the presence
of Mr. Curtin, the Prime Minister, and the facts
recited to him over and over again he met each
recital with such remarks as “this is all very con-
fusing,” or “I should still like to know what all
this is about.” But no steps were taken by the
“Labor” Government to elucidate the position to
Parliament.
Mr. Morgan declared: —
Everybody in the district seems to know about
this matter, except the local authorities and the
police, who either know nothing of the affair or
are ignoring it.
He said that Fitzpatrick was “flaunting it
around Bankstown that he has influence in official
circles and local-government circles, and he feels
sure no proceedings will be taken against him.”
At the culmination of the incidents concern-
ing Fitzpatrick, Mr. Eric Harrison joined in the
demand for inquiry, and said that Sydney was
“seething with rumors which, if founded on fact,
would appear to reflect grave discredit on the
Government.” He said that the Allied Works
Council, the Minister for Supply and Shipping (Mr.
Beasley) and his department, and the Minister for
War Organisation of Industry and his department
were all involved, and that the N. S. Wales Parlia-
ment was involved also, because one member had
been disciplined for having failed to do something
asked of him in relation to certain sand-leases on
George’s River. Mr. Anthony joined in the attack,
and eventually on March 22, 1944, Mr. Curtin told
Mr. Harrison that a “prosecution was pending.”
The matter was under discussion inter-
mittently until November, 1946, when Mr. Calwell,
then Minister for Immigration, had cause to defend
Mr. Morgan against charges by Mr. Lang, who
had defeated Morgan at the 1946 elections, Mr.
Fitzpatrick allegedly being his campaign-director.
Mr. Lang quoted from what he declared to be a
Security Department file on Mr. Morgan’s alleged
operations to bring in alien immigrants and obtain
fees for securing permits to enter. He implicated
Mr. Clark, the Deputy Speaker, in the charges,
whereupon Mr. Clark rose and said the statement
was an “absolute lie,” and suggested that the con-
tents of the file be disclosed to Parliament. Dr.
Evatt afterwards endorsed Mr. Clark’s disclaimer.
Mr. Calwell, after attacking Mr. Lang and
remarking about tin-hares and fruit-machines, said
that a similar attack to that now launched had
been made against Mr. Morgan three years previ-
ously and earlier in 1941. He said that the file in
the Security Department from which Mr. Lang
purported to quote had “mysteriously disappeared
and got into the hands of Fitzpatrick, campaign-
director for the present honorable member for
Reid” (Mr. Lang):—
This man'said that he was determined to
destroy the political career of Mr. Morgan. He
publicly declared that he was determined to do
this because Mr. Morgan had accused him of doing
illegal things in connection with war-time con-
tracts. Fitzpatrick said Mr. Morgan had turned
the taxation people on to him and that, as a
result, he (Fitzpatrick) had to disgorge £62,000. . . ,
This man had certain documents from the file
printed, but without the printer’s imprint. . . .
I hope that an investigation will disclose who was
the venal officer in the Security Department who
handed the papers over so that they could be
used against Mr. Morgan.
A few days afterwards Mr. Menzies demanded
a full investigation by the “most powerful and
impartial authority,” and declared that, while the
charges might be true or false,
It is quite certain they cannot go uninvesti-
gated, because, if charges of this specific kind
become unchallenged commonplaces of Parliamen-
tary debate, then Parliament itself will have taken
a very long step in the direction of destroying its
own quality and its own authority.
Mr. Fadden fully supported the demand, but
Dr. Evatt, who replied for the Government, refused
the inquiry on the grounds of the alleged limitations
of the Government’s power in respect of royal
commissions and the fact that some of the charges
referred to matters under the jurisdiction of the
N. S. Wales Government.
He said that, arising out of Fitzpatrick’s con-
troversy with Morgan, a prosecution was launched
against Fitzpatrick, and he was convicted of certain
breaches of the law, and that “thereupon Mr. Fitz-
patrick had busied himself with reprisals,” and
that, with regard to the “old file of 1940-41,”
investigators had come to the conclusion that some
official had made a copy and supplied it to Fitz-
patrick, but Crown Law authorities said it was not
possible to proceed against Fitzpatrick on the facts
known, though there was “no doubt that Fitzpatrick
obtained a copy of the document in an unauthorised
and improper way.” He added that Fitzpatrick’s
operations were investigated by the War Expendi-
ture Committee and that an action was pending
against him in the High Court for an alleged
attempt to extract money from the Commonwealth.
The matter was then dropped in Parliament
until it was revived in May last by the attack on
Mr. Morgan in the “Observer,” in which the old
accusations against him were repeated, admitted to
be the result of Fitzpatrick’s orders to Frank
Browne, his editor, to “get stuck into” his adversary
with charges of which the authors had neither proof
nor even evidence.
In the course of debate on the Commonwealth
and State Housing Agreement on May 19
(“Hansard,” p. 922) Mr. Morgan said that “certain
war-time profiteers, exploiters and racketeers were
trying to get their sticky fingers into the profits
that might ensue from the activities of the Housing
Commission.”
One in particular is my “old friend Mr. Big”
Fitzpatrick. I find that he is getting very substan-
tial contracts in respect of various Housing Com-
mission estates in and around my electorate. I
wonder how he is doing it, particularly in view of
the frauds he perpetrated during war-time. * That
is on record.... Those authorities might be
entirely unaware of the kind of individual with
whom they are dealing. Naturally the person
who submits the lowest tender usually gets the
contract. On the other hand, if the successful
tenderer happens to be a short-measure merchant,
the lowest tender could be most costly in the
long run. I might be unduly suspicious in that
regard; but the leopard does not change his spots,
and persons who robbed the nation on graving-
docks and other vital undertakings when the
Japanese were knocking at our gate, who purloined
Government property and even lifted an aeroplane-
hangar, are not likely to mend their ways.
Mr. Morgan did not substantiate all his charges.
But he suggested that the War Expenditure Com-
mittee’s report—“in some ways the most secret
document in Australia; no one seems to want to
know anything about it” —be made public so that
the Housing Commissions and others might be
made aware of such matters, when “dealing with
individuals of that kind.” He said that “for the
second time in twenty years the local council has
been dismissed because of the activities of this
gentleman and his family.”
In the light of the charges which have been
made and the widespread rumors which have
associated the names of judges, politicians and
others with Fitzpatrick, together with the revela-
tions of his operations which led to the suspension
of the Bankstcwn Council and his own imprison-
ment, the present attitude of both the Federal and
New South Wales Governments seems to be
inexplicable.
One would have imagined that Mr. Cahill
would have at once demanded protection for the
public and the Housing Commission by the publi-
cation of some of the relevant details of the War
Expenditure Committee’s report. This document is
now admittedly about 10 years old, and publica-
tion might hurt reputations of those now dead or
otherwise unable to defend themselves. But high
national issues are involved.
Money provided by the Commonwealth is
expended by Housing Commissions. The Prime
Minister’s contention that he “would not waste five
minutes considering the appointment of a royal com-
mission unless certain conditions were fulfilled,” the
primary one being that “specific charges must be
made against identifiable people,” seems highly
inconsistent with the stand which he and those who
were to become his present Ministers took in 1946.
Public concern has reached such a stage
that the Commonwealth and State must have
the whole matter cleared up in the interests of
public purity and the reputation of all who have
been attacked. These include such a wide range
that the good-name of public life and business is
under fire. It should not be left to private indi-
viduals to determine whether there are charges
which should be publicly investigated. It has
become the duty of the two Governments to estab-
lish whether or no there is a prima facie case to
put before a royal commission.
Road-safety Studies
ALL sorts of statistics are available for those
interested in road-safety. You can find out how
many accidents were due to speed, to drunkenness,
to bad lighting, bad roads and so forth.
One important statistic is missing—the number
of newly licensed drivers involved in accidents.
By newly licensed is meant those who’ve got their
licences within the past two years.
A study of the figures in this regard might be
worth while. If, for instance, it was found that a
disproportionate number of newly licensed were
involved in accidents, then there would be a case
for a revision of the system of examining and
passing aspirants.
If it was found that a disproportionate number
of long-licensed drivers were involved in accidents
there would be a case for periodically testing such
people.
It could be that a statistical survey on these
lines would prove that neither the new nor the old
drivers were any more prone to accidents than the
in-betweens. In that event those interested in road-
safety could forget that aspect of the campaign and
turn their attention to other factors two of which
promptly suggest themselves in the form of slow
drivers and heedless-reckless pedestrians. Both are
capable of causing accidents in which neither may
be actually involved.


WEDGETAIL SEASON


PLAIN ENGLISH
Strike-bound Sydney
At the weekend Sydney was experiencing
a wave of industrial troubles of a
number and variety not known for many
years. As a result, on Monday morn-
ing the city was without regular news-
papers, many of its outer suburbs had
been without sanitary service for a week,
its gas-supply seemed likely to be cut
off at any moment, and a strike at the
abattoirs threatened to make its citizens
compulsory vegetarians. In addition, a
bus-strike curtailed services on several
routes, Garden Island naval dockyards
were immobilised by a strike, and iron-
workers were also on strike at Mort’s
Dock.
The gas strike —the latest of many in
the industry—began with a demand for
higher wages. On Friday, at the request
of the gas companies, Conciliation Com-
missioner Tonkin inserted in the gas-
workers’ award a penal clause banning
strikes, and Mr. Justice Ashburner of the
Federal Arbitration Court issued an order
calling on the Gas Employees’ Union to
show why it should not be dealt with.
This order is returnable today, but the
N. S. Wales Trades and Labor Council
announced on Saturday its intention of
calling on miners, seamen, railwaymen
and transport-workers to cut off supplies
to the gas companies unless the strike
was settled.
The Transport Workers were already
involved in another dispute affecting a
small but rather necessary section of their
membership. Large areas of outer
Sydney are still unsewered, and for a
week a strike of sanitary-carters has left
400,000 people without sanitary-service.
The carters’ weekly wage is £lB 10s.;
they want £25 and say they won’t touch
a pan till they get it.
Pay is also the issue at Homebush
Abattoirs, where maintenance-men are
demanding an extra £1 14s. a week, and
in the two dockyard strikes. It (and
annual leave) is also the primary cause
of the newspaper stoppage which began
over a fortnight ago as an unofficial
strike by a section of “Daily Mirror”
employees in protest against an award
which they didn’t think generous enough,
but has mice become official as an out-
come of a mutual-assistance agreement
whereby the proprietors of the morning
and evening papers produced a joint
paper.
All these disputes have a common
element, apart from the obvious one of
wages. It is not enough to say of the
sanitary-carters that they have an un-
pleasant job and should be compensated
for it. Admittedly their task is un-
pleasant. Nor is a gasworks the most
pleasant place to work in; nor an
abattoirs. For that matter it is even
possible that the men at the “Daily
Mirror” sometimes find some of the items
they are required to print a 'trifle
unpleasant. But the point is that all these
people are working under awards of the
Arbitration Court. And all these strikes
are strikes against the arbitration-
system, to the support of which all
political parties claim to be pledged.
They cannot succeed, but what the
“Labor” movement needs to realise is
that their success would be worse for the
movement than their failure, as it would
be the signal for a wave of similar
strikes which would probably bring the
whole arbitration-system toppling down
—and the Australian economy with it.
Divide and Rule
The British statement of policy in regard
to the Geneva talks on July 18 indicates
clearly now that Britain is not prepared
to help dismember the North Atlantic
Treaty organisation ; that it will not be
parted from the United States ; and that
it will work for the unification of Ger-
many. Also, that, subject to this, every-
thing, as far as Westminster is concerned,
is “negotiable,” though Eden obvi-
ously has some scepticism about the “new
look” in Russian policy and says he hopes
nobody will “accuse us of hanging back if
we take a good look at the ‘new look’
before we pronounce upon it either way.”
His essential statement, however, is
one which received only secondary pro-
minence from the press:
As long as Germany is divided Europe
will be divided. I said this in Berlin last
year, and it is just as true today. There
must be free elections throughout the
whole of Germany. When they are over
it will be for the whole of Germany to
determine her own future.
In these sentences are stated the Russian
policy of divide and rule which is a corol-
lary of Litvinov’s “peace is indivisible.”
The whole Russian aim has been to
divide —to divide China as a first move to
revolution, to divide Korea, Germany and
Indo-China with a view to using the
division not only as a first step to the
conquest of the country concerned, but
as a pretext to divide other countries and
to create a situation in which it can
allege aggression and produce pretexts for
fear among its own people by alleging
aggressive aims in those opposed to
Russian policy.
An example of the Russian line is to
be observed in all its nakedness in Indo-
China almost on the eve of the Geneva
Conference. There the Peking Govern-
ment has suddenly, before the coming
1956 elections, announced a financial
scheme which involves the pouring into
Vietnam of money, teachers, propagan-
dists, machinery, technicians and goods
for the creation of roads and agricultural
equipment.
Simultaneously it has entered on a new
campaign of abuse against the United
States, which is accused of having violated
the Geneva Agreement by declaring
South Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos pro-
tected areas under the Manila treaty
instead of leaving them wide open to be
captured by Ho Chi-minh.
With Ho on his way to Moscow issuing
schemes for Vietnam’s future and Peking
calling for “peaceful elections” —which
mean elections in which the Communists
are not opposed and there is no minority
vote —it looks as if northern Indo-China
has receded behind the Iron Curtain.
And the propaganda of U Nu, Premier
of Burma, who is touring the United
States and from that vantage-point has
been trying to persuade Asia, that “most
of the responsible people” in Washington
favor the admission of Red China into
U.N.0., seems to point the direction in
which the next move of the Communists
may be made.
Tito and Nehru have jointly made the
demand for Red China’s admission within
the past few days and contemporaneously
plans are being laid down by the Manila
Treaty powers to check any further
Chinese aggression.
Nobody seems to be waiting for the
Geneva Conference before acting. There
seems everywhere, even in Moscow and
Peking, to be a singular lack of faith in
the Russian “new look.”
Are We Too Modest?
“In the ACT”: According to a friendly
American visitor, Clement D. Johnston,
chairman of the U.S. Chamber of Com-
merce, Australians are too modest about
their own country. Mr. Johnston seems
to have gone out of his way to praise
almost everything he has seen, including
the Olympic Games preparations, and
he’s promised to present “a glowing
report” about us when he gets back home.
He has even found that our shops have
plenty of clothes and other goods, at
prices which may appear reasonable,
especially to persons accustomed to the
American scale of incomes.
All this is highly gratifying, no doubt.
It is possible that as Australians we are a
little too prone to ponder on and publi-
cise our shortcomings instead of taking
active steps to remedy those capable of
being overcome, while accepting those
due to Nature and not to man. At the
same time we are perhaps apt to ignore
some of our greatest blessings and to
brag, especially abroad, about things
which are often almost non-existent, such
as sunshine in Sydney in summer-time.
The real trouble, however, is that we
have so many things, usually worth prais-
ing, which we are now doing our best to
destroy, and which we either apologise
for or try to hide from the rest of the
world. The current wasteful conflict
between labor and management is an out-
standingly important factor in our
national life which gives us no cause for
pride.
Use for Budget Surplus
“Stromlo” : Critics of the disclosed
Budget surplus of £7O million have tended
to overlook the fact that much of the
extra revenue came automatically by tax-
deductions from rising wages and
salaries, on which early estimates are
difficult, if not impossible. This in itself
is a sign of some inflation, and the tax-
deductions are one of the methods, none
of them highly popular, by which a
Government seeks to draw off excess
spending-power in the community.
Cabinet now faces the task of framing
what may prove to be an “election
Budget” with a nice sum in kitty and
rising production in many industries.
There is no unemployment and little
grumbling at the present tax-scales,
although some anomalies cry loudly for
rectification. The only persons suffering
genuine hardship in the community are
those on fixed pensions and superannua-
tion, and the claim of the pensioners has
been underlined by the extraordinarily
high increases given to senior Federal
public servants and by the hints of
another steep rise soon for Parliamen-
tarians.
There is no doubt that a substantial
increase in pensions would be approved.
The permanent burden which would con-
sequently be imposed on the economy
should be borne the more easily because
the high birth-rate and the influx of
youthful migrants have been steadily
lowering the average age of Australians
and increasing the number of income-
earners. After that decision is made the
Treasurer and the Cabinet will face some
imponderables, one of which is the effect
of the Communist “peace offensive” on
the willingness of taxpayers to bear heavy
defence burdens. Another is the serious
undercurrent of industrial trouble,
stemming from a condition of material
prosperity which encourages some
ignorant hotheads to support disputes
which may have concealed but sinister
purposes. There is also the desire to
check excessive spending on imports
while at the same time retaining for
Australia the competition by foreigners
for our products.
Who'd Be Treasurer?
The other week in Canberra the Federal
Treasurer reached the end of his accounts
for the Commonwealth’s financial year,
checked them carefully, then announced
a surplus of £7O million. Happy is the
Treasurer who can do things like that,
and he doubtless prepared, with justified
anticipation, to receive the shoal of con-
gratulatory messages that seemed likely
to come in.
There was a rather unusual silence for
a day or so. It seemed that the nation
was speechless with joy. The Treasurer
could have been pardoned for visualising
demonstrations of appreciation in Gov-
ernment, business, and rural circles,
letters from grateful taxpayers in the press
and so forth.
Then the voices spoke. State Premiers
(most of them Treasurers themselves),
taxpayers’ organisations, editorial-writers,
pensioners, financiers —all these and more
rose and verbally smote the man hip and
thigh.
He couldn’t have brought more criti-
cism down on himself if he had produced
a big deficit.
At Home and Abroad
The president of the Australian Dairy
Farmers’ Association is taking on some-
thing if he thinks he can convince Aus-
tralian housewives that they ought to pay
another 2d. a pound for butter and be
glad to do it. He, Minister for Commerce
McEwen, the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics, the Treasurer and all the rest
may talk till their respective faces are
black —all the annoyed ladies will see
is that extra twopence a pound.
What housewives —and a lot of their
menfolk —can’t understand is why things
like butter and eggs should be at luxury
prices in Australia, while huge quanti-
ties of both are sent 12,000 miles to
Britain and there sold at half the price.
They are also interested in the spectacle
of Australian Government men touting
Asian countries in search of buyers for
Australian food products, knowing that
Asians simply can’t pay what the Aus-
tralian housewife has to pay.
Taking eggs as an example, housewives
say they can’t afford to buy all the eggs
they want at 6s. a dozen and, noting that
“surplus” eggs are being sent abroad at
less than 3s. a dozen, they believe that
if they could get eggs at 4s. 6d. a dozen
they’d buy so many more as to cut down
both the “surplus” and the Egg Board
losses (which are really public losses) on
shipments. Since this seems like simple
arithmetic, the same argument goes for
butter, bread, milk, meat and other food-
stuffs which are dear at home and cheap
abroad and “enjoy” Commonwealth sub-
sidies.
Mr. McEwen told the Australian Agri-
cultural Council that there must be more
farm-production “in relation to Austra-
lia’s overseas balance-of-payments.” The
dairyfarmers’ president said another 2d.
a pound on butter “would still not cover
the costs of production.” There are, pre-
sumably, cogent reasons why Australian
overseas credits must be bolstered by
food-exports (at prices dictated by what
overseas buyers will pay), why some farm-
product prices must be bolstered by Com-
monwealth subsidies, and why “equalisa-
tion” and “stabilisation” schemes bump
up home prices.
But the job of explaining all this to the
housewives would need the patience of
Job and the persuasiveness of Plato.
Both gentlemen having long gone out of
business, it is doubtful if there is any-
one among the multitude of prophets and
philosophers now employed by Govern-
ments and commodity-boards capable of
doing it.
Meantime, there is plainly some form
of economic insanity abroad when a
country prices its land-products out of
the domestic market and sells them at a
loss on the foreign market.
Ignorance on Malaya
“Mugga Way”: Offering a little needed
geographical advice to Evatt and Calwell,
Interior Minister Kent Hughes has
pointed out that neither appeared to know
that Singapore was not Malaya. He
doubted if either of them had been to
Malaya, and thought that the only two
Malay words they would understand
would be “jalan kiri,” which mean “go
left.”
As one who “owes his life to the kind-
ness, courage and loyalty of many folk
in Malaya,” Kent Hughes said that
there had been no previous “Labor”
protests against the use of Australian air-
men in Malaya in action against the
terrorists. The present tactics were
apparently designed to aid the minority
Labor Front party at the coming
Malayan elections; but they were pro-
viding fuel for the fiery People’s Action
party in Singapore, “where nine-tenths
of the population are Chinese.” Evatt
and Calwell either did not know or else
wilfully ignored the fact that now that
the Communists had Haiphong, the next
objective in the cold-war was Singapore.
The Prime Minister also found it
necessary to point out that the Peoples’
Action party, whose declarations on the
coming of Australian troops were given
prominence in some Australian dailies,
had no organisation whatever in Malaya
and no candidate in the elections. He
suggested dryly that in consequence the
party’s statements should not be taken
with exaggerated fervor.
There is no question that the deliberate
and irresponsible Evatt-Burton-Calwell
campaign will make things more difficult
for our troops when they reach the area,
or that it has given renewed heart to the
Communists who are trying to disrupt
Malayan life and prevent the advent of
self-government.
Glasgow Passes
From “Ek Dum”:
Sir Thomas William Glasgow, K.C.8.,
C. D.S.O.—“Bill” to his intimates —was
the last of the great Australian divisional com-
manders of World War I when he passed oyer
at 79 last week. He had been a citizen-soldier
from his boyhood upwards.
Born at Upton Bank, on the Mary River,
near Tiaro, in Queensland, on June 6, 1876, he
began life in the Q.N. Bank on Gympie gold-
field, where he made friends with another
bank-clerk named Brudenell White, who
presently forsook banking for the Royal Aus-
tralian Garrison Artillery and ended up as
one of the greatest chiefs-of-staff of modern
times.
Glasgow began his active soldiering in South
Africa —Queen’s Medal with five clasps and
D. —and was among the first in the elite
A.I.F. of 1914, in which he was destined to
become one of the great fighting-group whose
names were always spoken together—Leane,
Rosenthal, “Pompey” Elliott and Iven Mackay,
who alone survives.
He went away with the Second Light Horse
and established himself as a sound, cool battle-
officer when commandant of the ticklish Pope’s
position on Anzac, and was given command
of the two squadrons of the First Light Horse,
which made the attack on Dead Man’s Ridge
on August 7, 1915, he himself leading the right
wing of the attack up the gully. It was
one of the stickiest shows of a very sticky
period. When retirement was forced by the
lack of support after two hours, he, with
Lieutenant Harris —a grazier from Tumut —and
four men held on to cover the retirement and
see the wounded carried in. As always, he
bore a charmed life.
Of the original 200 who went into the attack,
154 were casualties, and every officer except
Glasgow himself was hit. Next day he was
appointed to the command of the regiment,
and before the Gallipoli adventure ended his
name had become a symbol for aggressiveness
and confidence. When a possible Turkish
attack was mentioned with trepidation he
remarked: “What would it matter if 1000 or
2000 Turks got through? What would it have
mattered at Pope’s? We should simply have
captured or killed the lot.”
Birdwood and White had no difficulty m
choosing him, a little before his fortieth birth-
day, to command a brigade in the A.I.F. in
France—his was the 13th, Queenslanders,
South Australians, West Australians and Tas-
manians—49th, 50th, 51st and 52nd Battalions
in the Fourth Division. Bean described him:
“With keen blue eyes looking from under
puckered humorous brows as shaggy as a deer-
hound’s; with the bushman’s difficulty of
verbal expression but sure sense of character
and situations; with a fiery temper but a cool
understanding and a firm control of men; with
an entire absence of vanity, but translucent
(Continued on next page )


honesty and a standard of rectitude which gave
confidence both to superiors and subordinates,
he could —by a frown, a shrewd shake of the
head, a twinkle in eyes screwed up as against
the glare of the plains —awaken in others more
energy than would have been evoked by any
amount of exhortation.”
He led the brigade at Moquet Farm on Sep-
tember 3-5, 1916. Before the Canadians
relieved them they had had 1346 casualties —
the Queenslanders (49th) had lost 13 officers
and 417 other ranks killed and wounded, the
52nd —Tasmanians, West and South Australians
—l2 officers and 438 men. They captured Noreuil
after Lagnicourt in April, 1917, and his part,
and that of the brigade in the holding period
at Messines on June 9 in particular, was
historic.
All his battalions were involved up to the
neck at Polygon Wood in September, when
they and their attendant artillery and ancillaries
had over 700 casualties —they had lost over 600
at Lagnicourt and over 1000 at Messines. Next
came Demancourt the following year with
heavy fighting.
But Second Villers-Bret. was his battle, the
one in which he showed himself “the strongest
of them all” in the grim business of April
24. After General Heneker of the British
Eighth Division had told him that Villers-Bret.
had fallen, he and his fidus Achates, Major
Roy Morell, went on their famous reconnais-
sance. He sized-up the uncertain situation
with concise coolness, settled his starting-line,
resisted the opinion of the British divisional-
and the corps-commander with a firm, “Tell
us what you want us to do, sir, but you must
let us do it our own way.”
And he had his way with “Pompey” Elliott
commanding his companion brigade in the
counter-attack. Again in that triumph the
brigade had over 1000 casualties, but the result
was a great victory, and the Germans paid a
huge price in that the counter-attack achieved
results of an enormous significance for which
the worried Allies mostly had to thank
Glasgow. As the War History declared, it
was his rugged determination that saved the
Army and corps-commanders and everyone
else from the tragic mistake of launching the
counter-attack in daylight, and had his own
plan of waiting till 10.30 at night been followed
the success would undoubtedly have been
greater.
He was a stern man in his military views.
He joined with General Holmes in 1917 in a
request for an amendment of the law to inflict
the death-penalty in a few flagrant cases of
desertion, and in the so-called “mutiny over
disbandment” in 1918 he grimly refused to
recommend the remission of the penalties on
the unfortunate 119 who were involved and
who were eventually saved from their fate by
General Hobbs. At the same time, after the
war he was an equally stern fighter for the
rights of soldiers, though he deprecated any
attempt to establish extravagant claims to
privileges.
POLITICAL POINTS
In Sydney last week the only thing the
sanitary-carters were carrying out was
their decision to strike.
0 9
When the Doc. rushed in to make poli-
tical capital out of General Churchill’s
unauthorised statement on the use of
Australian forces in Malaya he forgot his
history. He said that foreign-policy
statements had been taken over by a
military spokesman who was not even
responsible to the Australian people.
When Evatt was Minister for External
Affairs Australian foreign policy on
south-east Asia was taken over by the
Waterside Workers’ Federation. Defence
Minister Mcßride was quick to deny
General Churchill’s statement; Evatt
acquiesced in the wharfies’ action.
• •
With the daily demands for a royal
commission—Bankstown, Sutherland and
so forth —Cahill and Co. must feel that
it’s just like old times. Their attitude
hasn’t changed ; the answer is still no.
In the case of Sutherland Shire, where
various charges have been made and
denied and repeated and decried, Minister
for Local Government Renshaw says
there is no need for an inquiry as the
council has promised it won’t do it again.
9 9
When counting in the Bulli (N.S.W.)
by-election ceased on Saturday night
R. F. Jackson, the “Labor” candidate,
had an overall lead of 208 over his three
opponents. Figures: Jackson (“Labor”),
8603 ; Jarrett (Liberal), 3859 ; Strachan
(Ind.), 3312 ; Boardman (Com.), 1224. In
1953 the late L. B. Kelly held the seat
for “Labor” with a majority of 12,500,
but a comparison is impossible, as his
only opponent was a Communist. Three
years earlier, against a Liberal and a
Communist, his margin was about 3500.
• «
As part of “a current five-year plan”
for increasing primary production Can-
berra has appointed “a chief liaison-
officer” who will be given the “status of
an assistant-secretary” with the Depart-
ment of Commerce. And what will he
produce?
• «
Dulles has gone on record as hoping
that Russia will discuss German unity
at the Geneva talks, scheduled to begin
next Monday; he deplores the Soviet’s
seeming loss of interest in the subject.
He does not expect consideration of Far
Eastern problems, on which Russia has
indicated that a further conference may
be possible. The U.S. delegation, in
addition to Eisenhower and Dulles, will
include Dillon Anderson, special assistant
to the President on national security;
Charles E. Bohlen, U.S. Ambassador to
Moscow ; Robt. R. Bowie, director of the
State Department’s policy-planning staff ;
James Hagerty, press secretary to the
President; Douglas MacArthur, Jnr.,
counsellor of the State Department, and
others.
0 0
Melbourne is getting a move on. A
tunnel under the Yarra connecting South
Melbourne with Williamstown has almost
been sanctioned. As it would be at least
three times the length of the Degraves-
street subway, it should be open for
traffic by the turn of the century.
0 0
No one expected Cahill to be in favor
of the New England new-State proposal,
but his reasons for rejecting it were not
very convincing. To support his con-
tention that there was no substantial
body of public opinion behind the
request for a referendum, he said that
at the poll held at the time of the local-
government elections in 1953 only 31,000
out of 350,000 eligible troubled to vote
on the subject. (Of these 25,000 were in
favor, 6000 against.) To this the sponsors
of the movement reply that only 20 local-
government bodies in New England con-
ducted the poll. The others had been
willing to do so but had been deterred
by advice from the N.S.W. Local Govern-
ment Department. The 31,000 represented
98 per cent, of those who recorded local-
government votes in the 20 areas.
If all the energy at present being wasted
pushing plastic hoses into the ground and
trying to pull them out again could be
harnessed and put to productive use
there’d be no need to worry about nuclear
energy at all.
• •
After voting ceased in an annual elec-
tion in the Melbourne office of the Water-
side Workers’ Federation a drinking party
was held. Later, it was discovered that
a man had been kicked in the face, two
typewriters worth £163 had gone missing,
beer-bottles and broken glasses were
strewn about, and much beer had been
spilt on the floor. Explanation seems to
be that all present thought they were
working a ship.
• •
Stop press: Queensland railway-
freights and -fares will not be increased
this financial year. Transport Minister
Duggan has said so. Later: Attempts by
other State Transport Ministers to get in
touch with Duggan have so far failed.
• •
What with the upsetting of the
“Mirror” and the partial eclipse of the
MOLOTOV COCKTAIL
“Sun,” Sydney hasn’t seen a rape poster
for over a fortnight.
• •
A new and topical variation of an old
confidence-trick was revealed in a Mel-
bourne court when a man was charged
with obtaining credit under false pre-
tences. He had described himself at a
Melbourne hotel as “Professor Jackson,
the new prosecutor in the Petrov Com-
mission,” and tendered a cheque for £lOO
which he said had been drawn on the
Security Service private account. He got
away with it—at the time. Now he’s
doing six months in Pentridge.
* • •
The Cahills have announced a pro-
gramme of “short-term flood-control
work in the Hunter Valley estimated to
cost £1,020,000.” It is to be “carried out
as a matter of urgency.” Presumably by
day-labor on the 40-hour week.
• •
One interesting angle of the Geneva
talks i v s that Eisenhower will go fully
briefed on the views of the South Ameri-
can republics, after a discussion with the
20 Latin American ambassadors in the
White House on June 30. “Ike” and
Dulles presented the U.S. estimate of the
potentialities of the conference, and there
was a general discussion. Yesterday the
President was scheduled to meet Con-
gressional leaders of both parties for a
similar purpose.
• •
Victoria’s Transport Minister Warner
is obviously not a tram-traveller. He
wants to put snoopers on the trams at
peak times to catch fare-dodgers. What
everyone wants to know is, how will the
snoopers get on the trams?
• •
A young woman of Sydney has been
jailed for the third time for the same kind
of offence —biting a policeman. That’ll
leave a nasty taste in her mouth.
• •
Lithgow (N.S.W.) shop-assistants are
annoyed with the Minister for Labor and
Industry, Mr. Landa, for “letting them
down” over Saturday trading. A meet-
ing of their union agreed that the
Minister had abandoned them “to the
mercies of Lithgow employers.” What
they are really asking is that Landa
should single them out for favored treat-
ment ; shops open on Saturday morning
in all other towns in N. S. Wales, and an
industrial court judge, after visiting
Lithgow, saw no reason why an exception
should be made.
• •
Contract for the erection of the Com-
monwealth’s nuclear-reactor near Menai,
in Sutherland Shire, has been let to Head
Wrightson Processes, Ltd., a British com-
pany. Wot, no Fitzpatricks?
• •
If proposals to be discussed at a round-
table conference in November are
acceptable to all parties Malta will be-
come Constitutionally part of the United
Kingdom, with a status analogous to
that of Northern Ireland, which has a
Parliament of its own but also sends
representatives to Westminster.
• •
“Wusslean”: Gas-warfare has been
introduced into “Labor’s” faction-fight
in Victoria. After “repairs” had been
made to gas-heaters in the Anti-Com-
munist Labor party’s office at Melbourne
Trades Hall it was found that no gas
was available; the plumbers, who are
backing the Cain party, had declared the
installation black. The union’s secretary
confirmed this, whereupon Cremean,
M.H.R., protested that one of the funda-
mental principles of unionism was the
provision of adequate amenities for
workers, and that the plumbers’ action,
forcing female members of the Clerks’
Union to work in “sub-Arctic” conditions,
was “a complete negation of this prin-
ciple.” But what has principle to do with
the family squabble?
• •
A Melbourne spiritualist claims to
have had over 400 conversations with
the late Conan Doyle in the 25 years
since the creator of Sherlock Holmes
died. He seems to have wasted some
fine opportunities; in that time Mel-
bourne has accumulated quite an impos-
ing list of unsolved crimes.
• •
“In the ACT”: The States are likely to
be highly vocal at the meeting of the
Transport Advisory Council in Brisbane
on July 25 and 26. Overall costs of-
transport-operation in Australia will be
discussed, and a report will be furnished
on the extent to which various forms of
transport compete, as well as another on
the existing legal situation. Traffic-
engineering and motor-vehicle standards
are also on the agenda framed by
optimists who seem to think that about
50 contentious subjects can be dealt with
in a couple of days. The council com-
prises Federal and State Transport
Ministers,.
• •
As the Sydney A.B.C. announcer said
last paperless Sunday, there was some-
thing ironic in beginning “Morning
Melody” with the Strauss waltz
“Morning Papers.”
• •
Five State Premiers have protested at
the huge Federal surplus, contrasting
Canberra’s overflowing coffers with their
own allegedly empty purses. But not one
of them has asked bluntly for a return
of taxing-powers.
• •
Nuffield Foundation is giving the school
of social sciences of the National
University £B5OO to “assist research
into the demographic, economic and
social consequences of post-war immigra-
tion in Australia.” It sounds a large
order. The three broad questions to be
examined in the five-year project will be
the composition of the migrants and
their effect upon the demographic struc-
ture of the Australian population; the
economic impact of the migrants; and
the degree of their economic, social and
cultural integration with the Australian
community. There will be some simul-
taneous study in the areas of origin of
the migrants, especially in the U.K.
• •
One-up to Australia’s aircraft designers!
U.S. authorities are seeking information
about the Jindivik, the Australian-made
pilotless jet-plane.
• •
The leaders of “Labor” are so pre-
occupied with their family squabble that
they approach all other problems in the
light of their possible effect on the out-
come of the faction-fight. In relation
to industrial disputes, both sides fear
above all things the possibility of being
dubbed non-militant. In consequence
the great body of commonsense unionists
and the general public of which they
form a large part suffers at the whim of a
few malcontents.


Society
"AND IT’S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
r T'HE introduction was colossal. The
1 compere informed his spellbound
radio-audience that the case from
security-police files about to be revealed
for the first time could have changed the
entire course of the war in the S.-W.
Pacific had it not been exposed. Ah, a
plot to blow up the Navy, no doubt?
Then followed the detection of an Army
private who, comfortably employed at
the barracks, made a tidy profit faking
discharge-papers for a score or so
malingerers at £lOO a pop. But how
could this affect the course of the war?
Well, it was explained, had the crime
gone undetected the entire Australian
Imperial Force could have been depleted.
I imagined the general on the field of
battle crying “Charge!’’—then looking
about him in wonder and exclaiming,
“Wot, no troops?” That was assuming,
of course, that the general didn’t have a
hundred-quid.—“Roirp.”
♦> ❖
“Nunk”: When Sydney afternoon
“Sun” came out with “Mirror” headings
as well during the “Truth” and “Mirror”
strike, one waited to see if Sunday’s
“Sun-Herald” would come out as “Sun-
Herald-Truth.” But some miracles just
don’t happen, even on Sundays.
❖ ♦♦♦ *t*
“Wusslean”: Brevity is undoubtedly
essential in compiling newspaper radio-
programmes, but there are occasions
when, as with shorts and swimsuits worn
by the bolder sex, excessive brevity
proves embarrassing. An instance was
the radio-supplement announcement of a
Melbourne daily:
3 :0 WESLEY CHURCH P.S.A.—Speaker:
Dr. Cunningham Dax (Certified Insane).
The inclusion of one additional word —
Subject—after the speaker’s name would
have made clear that no reflection was
intended upon Victoria’s Mental Hygiene
Authority chairman.
-gt
“And Re”: “Careers-night” at the
high-school. Boys gathered round “old
boys” for advice on prospective vocations.
The night’s biggest drawcard? The
“old boy” from the Vice Squad!
❖❖ ❖ u
“Maitri”: It is a delight to meet a
genuine raconteur. Two of the best I’ve
known have been Professor Macdonald
(Pathology), of Durham University—
doctors have more opportunities than
most for getting themselves involved in
humor-provoking situations—arid Archy
Rosenthal, the pianist. Their stories were
to the point, slightly cynical, spicy, alive.
But for lengthier narrations, commend me
to Mary Gilmore. When, in her King’s
Cross flat, she can be prevailed upon to
hold forth, one might well be sitting at
the feet of some bard of her own Celtic
stock: descriptions of blacks, horses, out-
back characters in the Riverina and
further West; her experiences as a teen-
age teacher in Silverton, beyond Broken
Hill; stories of the New Australia ven-
ture in South America; memories of
ranch-life in Patagonia, recollections of
Henry Lawson and Heaven knows who
else beside —all given in virile literary
English with the emphasis on Anglo-
Saxon. Poetic expression, one concludes
at the end of such sessions, need not lean
heavily on Latin influences. One im-
portant aspect of the work of our Grand
Old Lady of literature was revealed to
me by an old journalist-colleague of hers.
According to him, what Dame Mary has
done for girls who had been unfortunate
enough to step out in the wrong direction
is as worthy of public recognition as her
writing.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Renault”: The latest road-vehicle
lighting-regulation issued by the State
authority:
“Reflecting area” means, in relation to a
reflector, the area of the orthogonal pro-
jection on a vertical plane at right angles
to the longitudinal axis of the vehicle of
that part of the reflector designed to reflect
light.
Food for reflection there.
♦Jt ♦>
“H.E.R.”: A cold and frosty morning,
and waiting at my front-gate for a friend’s
car to pick me up. The city council’s big
“We had to come on our honeymoon for me to find out what a
bookworm you are , George!”
rubbish-cart stopped opposite,. Presently
the driver emerged from a house, emptied
his tin of rubbish right on to the middle
of the road and set fire to it. Warming
his hands over the blaze, he shouted out
to me: “Come an’ warm y’r ’ands, mate.
This is me last day. They’ve bought a
new motor-truck for the job, an’ me an’
me ole moke is finished.”
“Recla”; A Maitland woman with a
small purse but a big heart and an axe
drives her horse-drawn cart to the scrub,
where she does battle with the saplings.
Over the weeks she has cut loads of
clothes-props which she has distributed
to housewives whose props floated away
on the flood. No one dare tarnish her
good deed by offering her money, either.
& &
“Mamac”: Shades of the dog-menace
as the press writes-up the Army’s treat-
ment of stray dogs! I’m sure people are
getting tougher on towsers. I remember
my pet pooch being hit with a string of
sausages by an irate shopgirl many moons
ago. Admittedly the dog finished-up on
the shop door-mat with a sausage-and-a-
half, for which I was admonished but
not charged, seeing my nose came just
above the counter. A later sheep-dog pet
I took on my shopping-rounds had a
whole bolt of good striped cotton fabric
thrown at it by a wild draper when all the
mong had done was to walk into the shop
sedately as my protector. Well, it’s a
dog’s life for them now.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Benbow”: Other people besides
church-organists (B. 22/6/’5 5) some-
times shave, and even have a
bath, at work. I was at sea
years ago in a tramp-steamer where
the watch-engineers did these things down
in the engine-room before their watches
finished, so that they might be ready to
turn-in when relieved. When a head-sea
took off half the forward hatch-covers,
and it was necessary to slow the engines
and alter course to give the hands on
deck a lee as they made repairs, I relieved
the second-engineer at eight-bells, to find
him dressed in nothing but a coating of
soapsuds, but smoking his pipe, while he
operated the engines to frequent orders
from the bridge.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sack”: How long has this “unwritten
law among the underworld of the U.S. :
Lay-off actors” (B. 22/6/’55) been in
operation? It doesn’t seem so very long
ago that the papers reported Georges
Carpentier as being stuck-up on the way
home from a Hollywood party. One gun-
man sat in the car with a gat covering
the ex-boxer-actor, with whom he
chatted to pass away the time while the
others took the victim’s keys and went
off to rob his domicile. Still, come to
think of it, the gunmen may still claim
that they didn’t rob an actor.
*
“Fitz”: My powers of resistance being
around zero, I find my desk permanently
littered with novels, plays, short-stories,
verse and articles by author-acquaint-
ances who want me to read, criticise and
suggest likely markets. A poem takes
only a few minutes, articles and short-
stories anything from 10 to 30 minutes;
the plays and novels are the snag. Read-
ing one of them may occupy anything
from three or four hours to eight hours.
A professional critic would charge
solidly for what I’m expected to do in
the name of friendship. Gratitude? I
was once shouted a 2s. feed at a snack-
bar by the author of a play as long as
“Strange Interlude,” while the authoress
of a narrative poem as long as “Enoch
Arden” presented me with a second-
hand cigarette-lighter that wouldn’t light.
To complete this heartfelt moan, these
authors don’t want criticism at all; they
want a page or two of praise which they
can display to their friends or brandish
before some editor or publisher! Any-
one want to commit arson?
“Chink”: That “vainglorious shepherd”
the Rev. A. R. Edgar (B. 29/6//55) was
not the only Methodist parson summoned
to the Bar of the House in Melbourne.
In 1906 a bookmaker named Donald
McLeod, being unable to meet his obliga-
tions at a Melbourne race-meeting, ran
out on his clients, whereupon the mob
went in pursuit and manhandled him so
drastically that he died. There was, of
course, much tumult over the affair later,
and the Rev. Henry Worrall threw some
highly-inflammable stuff into the flames
by unloosing a terrific blast at Samuel
Gillott, then Chief Secretary. According
to the parson’s declaration, that Cabinet
Minister, as custodian of gaming laws,
was largely responsible for the death of
the welsher. Summoned to appear before
Parliament, Worrall was, on a majority
vote, formally censured.
*> ♦>
“ALWAYS stand alongside your car
you take it to a garage for the
oiling and greasing check-up!” was the
advice a friend, himself in the trade, gave
me after I’d been to a city establishment
and come back minus a wheel-cap and
some spare tools. The “removals” racket
goes on in places where there are unprin-
cipled employees or others waiting round
to lift what they can. Recently a friend
lost a good jack and various tools. An-
other, who’d left his car for odd repairs,
found the toolbox empty and two new
tyres replaced by a very groggy pair.
Presented with an account for a bit over
£5O, he offered half that amount in
settlement or, alternatively, court-proceed-
ings. Compromise accepted; but he no
longer goes to that garage. One case in
my own knowledge was the removal of
the starting-button on an Austin after the
car had been left for greasing. As the
car had been put out on the roadway
afterwards for picking-up by the owner
he had no redress. —“O’Johnno.”
THE CORN IS BLACK
“Sir Ralph Richardson wants an Australian
play—but not about ‘sheep and wool, wheat or
farmers.’ Announcing this, Mr. Garnet M.
Carroll said the play need not be set in Aus-
tralia. If discovered, Sir Ralph would star in
it in Australia and Londoh.”
Before our new playhouse gets started —
A national drama at last ! —
And the drapes of the future are parted
On the glittering English cast,
Word comes from that starry-eyed
heaven :
Who knows, but on some future day,
If everyone’s good, they may even
Produce an Australian play l
But don’t write a play about squatters,
Don’t write of sheep, wool, or meat;
Don’t soil your pads and your blotters
With grimy old growers of wheat ;
Without them we’d all be much thinner,
Yes, farmers and squatters are fine ;
We know they provide for our dinner,
But we don’t have to ask them to dine.
Just look at the benefits showered
On Bentley, for going away;
At first he could only do Coward,
But now he’s as English as they:
That voice, so clipped, curt and metallic,
That manner, persuasive and slick —
No common Australian smart-alick,
But a very-much-cleverer Dick :
So cut out that accent! It’s frightful —
The English wont like it, you know ;
Be charming, be cute, be delightful;
Don’t be a dirty old “Mo” ;
If you talk of outback they’ll despise
you,
If you act as though born in the ’Loo
The West End will not patronise you,
And that’s all they’re able to do.
It boils down to this: Be superior —
It’s not such a difficult job
For a writer, among the inferior
Australian theatrical mob ;
Don’t smother yourself in Australia —
It helps, when you’re setting your scene,
To put it in Wales or Westphalia,
Or London, eh ? See what I mean ?
You could let your cast lounge in
pyjamas
In Paris or Rome or New York,
Or cruise them about the Bahamas,
Or slum them through Glasgow or
Cork:
Don’t tie your art down to a ring-
leash —
That’s all I intended to say,
For as long as it’s English, the English
Will love an Australian play.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TT’S come at last —our complete Ameri-
canisation! Last night I spent a solid
half-hour battling with 2-down in the
Bulletin crossword-puzzle (29/6/’55),
but it was not until I spelt “rouseabout”
“roustabout” that I completed it. I
always knew that the bloke who com-
piles the crosswords is a nark, but I
thought that he was at least a dinkum
Aussie. There’s no doubt our individu-
ality is going completely to the pooches.
I’ll harness up the old grey mare, yell
“Giddy up!” and make tracks for the
Centre. And when I get there I’ll pro-
bably run across an abo. wearing a 20-
gallon hat and with a pin-up lubra in his
wigwam—I mean wurlie. —“Naracoorte.”
“Doynest”: The “travel-by-helicopter”
idea seems to be catching on: latest pro-
posal is for a service from Queenscliff,
on the western side of the entrance to
Port Phillip Bay (Vic.), to Melbourne.
The Queenscliff Borough Council is con-
fident of keeping busy a ’copter seating
from nine to 15 passengers. Residents
are already used to the ungainly egg-
beaters hovering overhead, as naval air-
craft frequently fly over the town on
manoeuvres. Can’t say I’m enthusiastic
over the proposed direct route across the
middle of the bay to the city, though;
Port Phillip is not very deep, but it’s 30
miles across either way, and the prospect
of making a forced-landing plumb in the
centre of the harbor inclines me to wait
and see.
“Viper”: Railroad tsars get no rest.
No sooner do they deal with unfair com-
petition from road-hauliers than a new
threat looms —this time to the suburban
end of the business. Well, no doubt it
“I think you've met Wing-Commander Woppett's wife before.”
will be just as easy to slap a tax on of housewives for running stills in their
helicopters. kitchens.
“Bo”: I thought it had been reverently
interred for ever, but the disk-jockey dug
up the legend that Handel had been
inspired to compose the “Harmonious
Blacksmith” by the smith’s hammer beat-
ing on the anvil when the composer was
forced to seek shelter in a smithy during
a storm. An anonymous letter to London
“Times” in 1835 started the legend, which
grew until even the blacksmith was identi-
fied and a monument erected to him for
his part in creating the immortal melody.
Research by musicologists has since
blown it sky-high. In 1822 the piece,
which is a theme and variations from
the composer’s Fifth Harpsichord Suite,
was published independently in Bath, in
which city a blacksmith’s apprentice, who
was always singing the air, was dubbed
by his friends “The Harmonious Black-
smith.” The publisher whimsically
decided to affix this title to it—63 years
after Handel’s death.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Narumee”: The correspondent of the
Melbourne women’s-magazine who
stated that a farmer’s wife was the “chief
benefactor” under her husband’s will
must have had bitter experience of the
hordes of distant cousins, once-, twice-
and thrice-removed, who rally hopefully
round any luckless member of a family
who has “come into money”!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Embee”: Oh, “Pawang” (B.
29/6/’55)! Obviously the patient (he
thought he had a “stomach ulcer”) com-
plained of upper abdominal pain. Obvi-
ously the Collins-street physician would
examine his alimentary canal, beginning
with the mouth. Obviously no Collins-
street physician would pronounce the
patient “out of condition” (a veterinary
term), or say “something was poisoning
his system” as a diagnosis. Can you really
imagine anybody planking down a
handful of salivary clackers on a chap’s
desk? False teeth were invented circa
300 b.c. That story came out the
following week.
* *> ❖
“H. 8.”: As feelings sometimes run
high and hot during Aussie Rules foot-
ball-matches, a police-escort is provided
in Westralia when players and referee
leave the field. During the recent visit
of a Victorian side to Perth an elderly
woman caused a diversion by brandish-
ing a pair of scissors at a blond-haired
player at the end of the game. Police
quickly grabbed her before she could
carry out her threat to cut a lock of hair
from her football hero’s head.
♦♦♦
“Didymus”: It could, of course, only
happen in America, but it is reported that
in the kitchen-of-the-future there is a
small screen on which recipes can be
projected in color. Forget all that old-
fashioned nonsense about thumbing
through cookery-books. Just buy recipe-
microfilms, dial the recipe you want, and
there it is projected on the screen —until
Customs and Excise launch prosecutions
“Doric”: She walked into a hardware-
shop and, noticing a card with tap-
washers marked “Nylon Washers,” bought
a supply. The next day she arrived
back with them. “These are quite use-
less,” she told the proprietor; “I washed
my stockings with them and they were no
"Joe's in a hurry—it must be
knocking-off time.”
cleaner than before—why, they don’t even
lather!”
“Craiser”: Kyneton (Vic.) people will
be dubious about a gadget shown at the
British Instruments Exhibition in Lon-
don, the invention of an industrial-
chemist who was so annoyed when his
wife was given the wrong baby at a
maternity-hospital that he confected an
invisible brand for the skin of the new-
born. Made with an ultra-violet ray
which doesn’t burn and isn’t visible to the
naked eye, it shows plainly when a
fluorescent light is concentrated on it,
and the effect lasts three months. After
the world-famous Kyneton mixed-baby
case, however, in which parents and a
long succession of judges disagreed, no
Kyneton resident really believes that
anybody is anybody.
❖ ❖ ❖
To “Weff’s” queer characters
that drift into newspaper-offices (B.
8/6/’55) add three Marines who, during
the war, were found asleep on the long
tables in our publishing-room, and the
sundry characters who, attracted by our
lamp outside the front-door, want to
book-in for the night under the impres-
sion that we’re a pub. We also have
animal-life. A large red-setter, whose
master was out a lot at night, used to
drop in every night and spend the even-
ing in the reporters’-room. At the
moment we have a cat that looks in most
nights to see what has been doing in the
town during the day.
♦♦♦
“Spinifex”: Sydney “Sunday Tele-
graph” (26/6/’55) published an interview
with Raymond Hollis Longford, who, in
1918, produced the film “The Sentimental
Bloke,” for which, the article stated, “he
assembled a hand-picked cast, including
Arthur Tauchert as The Bloke and Lottie
Lyell as Doreen.” The article quoted
Longford as saying: “With the possible
exception of one character the whole of
the cast is dead. Maybe he is, too.” The
producer should know, of course, but my
recollection is that Doreen was played
by Rae Fisher —now Mrs. “Bill” Cook.
Repeated press-statements to that effect
have strengthened this belief. As “The
Bloke” has become a landmark in Aus-
tralian film-production, perhaps the
point might be settled by the Sydney
University Wallace Theatre, which
showed the film at the recent film-festival.
Failing that, “The Champ.” might be
induced to give us the drum.
“Jarrah”: A report of the intention of
Japanese exporters to send consignments
of canned-tuna and -prawns to America
is not without humor for those who
remember complaints that Japanese
fishing-grounds and their inhabitants had
become contaminated by radioactivity
\ after U.S. nuclear tests. A geiger-
A counter on every breakfast-table would
' illustrate for Americans the proverb of
casting one’s atoms upon the water . . .
“Womerah”: A cobber of mine, well
known in Sydney to people who
write, left in a tram the manu-
script of a novel which had taken
him 12 months to complete. Frantic
at the loss of his masterpiece, he
worried the Tramway Lost Property
Office for weeks and spent a couple of
quid in “Lost and Found” advts. A
month or so went by; then one morning
the lost brainchild turned-up in the post,
with it this typewritten note: —
Herewith please find MS. of novel left by
you in Glebe tram some weeks ago. Have read
it and think it is lousy. Your hero is a prig,
and the heroine is an insufferable snob. The
villain is a poorly-drawn stock type, and the
plot is as old as the hills. The scenic stuff
might have been lifted from a guide-book.
However, since its pomposity and crudities
provided me with many laughs, I am waiving
the reward you offered and will also stand the
cost of returning it to you.
“Pawang”: President Eisenhower’s
praise of Helen Keller’s extraordinary
powers of perception were thoroughly
justified, but there are plenty of
equally-remarkable examples among the
not-so-famous. A blind secondhand-
bookseller in Smith-street, Prahran, knows
every book in his shop by the feel of it,
and he has 15,000 volumes. A blind man
is probably the best judge of horses in
Melbourne. Blind from birth, he fre-
quents auctions; he bought a pony for
£35, rode home through all the traffic and
sold it for £60. An auctioneer selling a
wagonette shouted : “This is just the
vehicle for you, Mr. X.” “No thanks,”
said the blind man; “it’s got an odd
wheel on the far side.” None of the
sighted people who had been bidding had
observed that.
WINTER WARNING
When bedroom curtains seem like thumb-
prints whorled
Upon the moist, grey putty of the
dawn ;
When Winter’s icy silence holds
enthralled
The ponds that cow-frogs crack to
float their spawn.
Poets beware, ye color-loving sprites;
Ye brandy-throated warblers of mirth,
Beware of days when all the warm delights
Of love would seem divorced from
barren Earth . . .
In such a mood, on such a day as this,
Pale poets quite fed-up with everything
Have choked on their own braces when
a kiss
From some sweet lass might have
dished-up the Spring!
VICTORIA.
LOUIS H. CLARK.
A RESTRICTED BARGAIN
“Widow, refined, sophisticated, slim, likes
modem dancing, would meet refined gent, with
means, same interest. Must have good
appearance. Open two weeks.” —Agony ad.
She’s not hard-boiled, like dames of
Damon Runyon’s;
Refinemeht’s claims she never could
ignore.
But, still, she does admit she knows her
onions ;
Two twos with her invariably make
four.
Her need is clear to exercise discretion
Before she finally leaves her widow’s
shelf.
Her Number Two-elect will make
impression
Who reinforces taste with prepossession,
Plus adequate pelf.
Perhaps her former spouse had owned a
dial
Of ruggedness so rare that it became
Across the breakfast-table quite a trial
For her to gaze at it. Also his frame
Might have been shapeless, so uncallis-
thenic
(Unlike her own svelte chassis). Did
she swear
Her next would be both slim and
photogenic,
So that, ’stead of a nightmare, an Edenic
“Dream” she-might snare?
Another thing she seeks in an “intended”:
With polished manner, grace, good
looks and oof
It’s quite imperative there must be
blended
Ability to fling a nimble hoof.
For old-time-waltz stuff she’s no time
whatever;
On modern dance-routine alone she’ll
thrive.
She loves to hurl herself with great
endeavor
Into exciting samba. She will never
Knock back a jive.
Who’d bat upon a fast conjugal wicket
(Deeming the time is ripe to take a
wife)
Might do far worse than share a good
meal-ticket
With one who’d bring a zest into his
life.
Of wifely qualities the sublimation,
She’s one who any roof-tree would
adorn.
Don’t dither round, though, in procras-
tination !
In fourteen days she’s out of circulation —
The offer’s withdrawn.
N.S.W.
S.W.R.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Weatherman E. Claughton shifts possies
from the meteorological-station on Willis
Island, off the coast of Queensland, to the
Perth Weather Bureau. Willis Island,
though only 500yds. long and 300yds.
wide, is an important weather-station,
because it is the breeding-ground for
cyclones along Australia’s north-eastern
coast. Claughton lived there for 12
months with only two companions, and
no amenities except a radio-set and a
library of 1000 books. He’ll take a four-
month spell before resuming forecasting
in Perth.
• •
Dropped in on Sydney to see relatives
(breaking his trip to Paris and London),
Captain Andrew Bunyan, who won D.S.C.
while in command of Kanimbla, then an
assault-landing-ship, in Lingayen Gulf.
He had the converted liner for almost
exactly a year, when the Japs were being
rolled-up in the South-West Pacific, and
had blue-watered for years before that
under the Red Duster. Now he’s harbor-
master at the French phosphate-island
Makatea, about 130 miles from Tahiti
(it’s claimed to have the deepest deep-sea
moorings in the world), and will return
there after 12 months in Europe.
• •
Inspected hereunder, Clive Uhr, one of
Brisbane’s leading radiologists. Born in
the northern capital and medically
RADIOLOGIST
degree’d at Sydney University, he has
extended his interests to include numer-
ous public and medical bodies in Queens-
land. Last year committee-chairman of
Brisbane Amateur Turf Club, he presides
over the Xavier Society, with its home
for crippled children, is a member of the
Medical Board and of the Radium Insti-
tute, and, branching into business, is a
director of Industrial Sales and Service.
He’s now 52, which made him close on
40 when he shipped for Malaya with the
Bth Australian Division ; he knew Changi
well. He’s father of seven.
• •
Known widely throughout the South
Seas, Colin Fraser, manager of Vacuum
Oil’s Pacific Islands trading department,
has notched 50 years with the company.
Earlier managerially in New Zealand and
Victoria, he’s been looking after the Pacific
side for the past 10 years, and was respon-
sible for siting the first commercial bulk-
fuel depots at Lae, Moresby, Ducos
(Noumea), and Vuda Point (Fiji). The
last-named was built specially to handle
aviation-fuels for international aircraft at
Nandi airport, eight miles distant.
• •
“Fitz”: Poet and A.B.C. feature-writer
John Thompson has won the 1954 Grace Leven
Poetry Prize (awarded under the will of poet
William Baylebridge) for his book Thirty
Poems. Lanky, tremendously energetic,
amiable, on the right side of the half-century,
Thompson was at Melbourne Grammar and
graduated with honors in Arts from Melbourne
University. After several years in advertising
he went to England, where Methuen’s published
his first book of verse, Three Dawns Ago. As
an A.B.C. war-correspondent, after A.I.F.
service, he saw the peace-signing at Rabaul.
In Java when the Indonesians took over from
the Dutch, he put his experiences into Hubbub
in Java. Since then, A.B.C. assignments have
included accompanying a scientific expedition
to Arnhem Land and two overseas trips—
England and South Africa —to gain experience
in 8.8. C. feature-techniques. Now one of
A.B.C.’s top feature-men in Sydney, he has
lately been gathering impressions from almost
everybody who knew Chris Brennan, for a
future programme. Thirty Poems is his third
book of verse; the second was Sesame.
Pulled off the Herbert Lott Trophy
for the best all-round pilot during the
anti-submarine course at the Royal Navy
Air Station at Eglinton, in Northern
Ireland, Lieut. C. H. C. Spurgeon, of the
R. Fleet Air Arm, over there for
advanced training. He’s a son of Captain
S. H. K. Spurgeon, D. 5.0., 0.8. E.
(destroyer-commander, in the middle of
War II Director of Anti-Submarine War-
fare, now N.0.1.C., North-West Austra-
lian area), and nephew of the late Cap-
tain Arthur Henry Spurgeon (the “Black
Wolf” ; one of the Navy’s most respected
seamen).
• •
Thirty-two years with the ’Wales,
R. H. Menzies becomes city-inspector in
Sydney in charge of the bank’s 30 inner-
city branches. Mainly based in N. S.
Wales, he’s had a term as accountant of
the Berkeley Square branch in London,
at a time when he heard more bombs than
nightingales.
• •
“Parap”: Mrs. Jessie Sinclair Litchfield,
a resident up that way since 1907, has
been appointed the Northern Territory’s
first woman J.P. A few weeks after the
appointment she took her seat on the
Bench at the Police Court, the first time
a woman had sat there. An honorary
life-member of the Arts Society, Darwin,
a life-member of the Darwin branch of
Red Cross and a foundation-member of
the Darwin Country Women’s Associa-
tion, she has had one book published,
Far-North Memories, and has been a
contributor to The Bulletin since 1908
and to the “Woman’s Mirror” since its
first issue. She runs a lending-library in
Darwin.
• •
John Storey passes:
As Mr. Menzies said in his tribute, the death
of John Storey was “sad news for our
country”; he was “a great Australian patriot”
and “a man of administrative genius, drive
and vision.” His death at 58 was completely
unexpected.
Son of another John Storey, Premier of
New South Wales, one of the best-liked
political figures of his time, he was educated
at Fort Street, Sydney, graduated in Science
at Sydney University, served with the A.I.F.
in the Engineers in World War I, had training
in the motor-industry in England, eventually
became director of manufacturing of General
Motors-Holdens in 1933 at the age of 36, and
supervised the building of the G.M.H. plants
at Fishermen’s Bend and Pagewood.
It was, however, in the war that his genius
as an organiser came to full flower, with the
construction of the Beaufort Division of the
Department of Aircraft Construction from the
ground up.
He was at the time of his death still a key
man in the defence-structure, apart from his
vast commercial interests, having been chair-
man of the Joint War Production Committee
since 1949. He was the founder and first
, president of the Institute of Management,
of the Commonwealth Immigration
Advisory Committee and of the boards of a
dozen big commercial and industrial concerns,
including Repco, Overseas Corporation, Bristol
Aero (Aus.).
The country had no policy on his life, but
on the basis of his record and public spirit it
could echo the words of John Curtin in the
dark days of 1942, when he once remarked:
“If we had John Storey insured for five-
million it wouldn’t be too much.” With all
his industrial busyness he was a very human
man, keenly interested in civic movements and
always ready to take time to discuss and help
with anything that had to do with the training
of youth and the betterment of living-conditions
or industrial-relations.
• •
Two firsts for John Wager, engineering
graduate of the Westralian University—
a “first” in mechanical-engineering, and
the first award of the O. F. Blakey
Memorial Prize, founded by the Perth
division of the Australian Institute of
Engineers to commemorate a past-presi-
dent, Professor Blakey. Wager is now
headed for the U.K. on a two-year post-
graduate apprenticeship with the English
Electric Co.
• •
“A.C.T.”: Promoted last March from
the post of Minister for Indonesia
in Canberra to the rank of Am-
bassador, Dr. M. Tamzil has 'been
an outstanding representatvie of his
Republic, explaining its policies and
prospects to‘audiences throughout Aus-
tralia. His unexpected recall to Djakarta
has compelled him to cancel speaking-
engagements in Brisbane and Adelaide.
Before leaving Canberra he received many
tributes to his personal popularity from
friends and diplomatic colleagues. He
left with Madam® Tamzil and their two
children (both young Tamzils have become
fluent in Australian).
To succeed Sir Richard Williams as
Director-General of Civil Aviation,
Donald Anderson, assistant-D.-G. of
Administration. Thirty-seven, he has had
15 years in the flying business, six of
them in the War II R.A.A.F. Joining
the civil branch as an examiner of pilots,
he was made superintendent of air-traffic-
control in 1948. In the same year he
took a leading part—as delegate to the
International Civil Aviation Organisation
in Montreal —in clearing up definitions of
principles for world traffic-control.
• •
“Uramao”: New Zealand, with grow-
ing interests in South-East Asia, has cast
round for a suitable representative, and
choice has fallen on Foss Shanahan, who
accompanied T. L. Macdonald, N.Z.
Minister of External Affairs, to the recent
Bangkok conference. Attendance on
Ministers took him to Canberra in 1951,
where he was associated with the late Sir
Frederick Doidge, negotiating the Anzus
Treaty with Secretary of State Dulles ;
also, at various times, to Chicago,
Geneva, London and Manila. Singapore
will be the location of the new
Ambassador.
• •
“ ’Woomba”: Old Diggers of the First
Light Horse at Gallip. and of the 13th
Infantry Brigade in France will have a
memory of Sir William Glasgow, who has
passed on in Brisbane. Overhung eye-
brows (somewhat trimmed by time and
wife when writer last saw him) which
seemed to shoot out and nail the listener,
eagle nose, back straight as a rail, and a
chiselled mouth that spoke as if it tasted
every word. After a savage attack on
Hill 60, when he came back under fire
carrying a wounded Lighthorseman, he
was field-promoted from major to lieut.-
colonel; the same year Birdwood selected
him to form and train the 13th Brigade
of the Fourth Aust. Division in Egypt,
and, when ready, he took it back to
France. There he fought his men through
some of the bloodiest battles of the war,
and, in close cohorts with Brigadier-
General “Pompey” Elliott, finally turned
the Germans at Villers-Bret. With the
Kaiser down, Glasgow tried home
politics: was a Queensland Senator, 1920-
32, Minister for Home and Territories,
1926, and Minister for Defence 1927-29.
In this latter period he went to Europe
for ideas on mechanising our Army.
After a time in Canada, High Commis-
sioner, he retired to his cattle-station at
Dingo, in Central Queensland. The Old
Digger had a brave list of decorations.
He was just under 80.
• •
Newington College (Sydney) takes its
name from John Blaxland’s old home
on the Parramatta River, which it occu-
pied for 17 years from its inception in
1863 until it moved to its present Stan-
more home in 1880, the year The
Bulletin was founded. It bows in vener-
ableness among Sydney’s Great Public
Schools only to The King’s and Grammar.
Just now its headmaster is taking a special
interest in the construction of its new big
chemistry-block (to be opened this year)—
Lawrence Pyke, M.A., B.Sc., Dip. Ed.,
made “stinks” his speciality in his early
academic career. He gained his B.A. in
that line at Oxford, where he had three
years after winning a Rhodes Scholarship
from Melbourne University, and, after
two years as a dominie in Edinburgh,
NEWINGTONIAN
returned to join the staff of Wesley, from
where he’d gone on to the Uni. There
followed lectureships in chemistry at Adel-
aide University and the Mildura branch
of Melbourne Uni. before appointment
to his present post. An old Aussie Rules
player, he has transferred his allegiance
to Rugby Union —quite a feat for any ex-
Yarrasider. He coaches one of the school
teams.
For more than half-a-century The
Bulletin has trusted its £ s. d. to the
National Bank, or its mergees, present
coffer-house being almost directly oppo-
site 252 George-street. For a quarter of
a century Maurice Harris (phiz herewith)
has been managerially connected with
banking, the past seven years in charge
of the branch He first joined
the old Colonial Bank in Melbourne
(since absorbed by the National) and once
managed the bank at Euroa (Vic.), which
also once was distinguished by a with-
BANKER
drawal by one Edward Kelly. Harris
himself has been held-up, though in a
respectable suburb of Adelaide. This
was a three-gun job—one chap had one
gun, his mate, two. Tomorrow (Thurs-
day) Harris is due to shift up George-
street, appointed Assistant Divisional In-
spector of the N.S.W. administrative
office.
• ®
“Cauboy”: It has become so much the
custom for eminent virtuosi, reputedly all
millionaires, to flit from one country to
another in Skymasters that the method
used by young Norwegian concert-pianist
Lars Larssen to fulfil an engagement with
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra seems
like an echo from the Dark Ages. He
came out in a migrant-ship as a deck-
hand ; it was cheaper. He meets an Aus-
tralian wife in Sydney.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 74, A. V. Green, former
Inspector of Fisheries, who joined the W.A.
Fisheries and Game Department in 1903, just
five years after it was formed. He retired after
42 years’ continuous service, a record for that
department. In War I he served in R.A.N.
patrol-boats and as a signalman at Fremantle.
In Somerset (Eng.), at 75, George Waldemar
Skellerup, of Christchurch (N.Z.). A native
of Cobden (Vic.), he crossed the Tasman when
21, with little but his own enterprise, and
built up an industry now employing 1000.
Producer of the first pneumatic tyre in New
Zealand, he became a leading figure in the
rubber-industry, and in War II established a
rubber company to reclaim old tyres; he also
developed solar salt-works at Lake Grassmere,
Canterbury, now harvesting some 3000 tons
annually. Holder of many other business
interests, he was, as well, an Alpinist and an
enthusiastic horticulturist.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 89, Arthur Paul
Harper, famed Alpinist and explorer, the
Southern Alps the scene of his greatest
activities. Son of Leonard Harper and grand-
son of Christchurch’s first Bishop, he was an
Oxford law-graduate, and on return to New
Zealand became a foundation-member of the
N.Z. Alpine Club, of which he was secretary-
treasurer and his father president. He became
president himself in 1914 and held the post fill
1931. An hon. member of London Alpine
Club and life-member of the American Alpine
Club; he wrote voluminously on his hobby
for British and foreign journals, and produced
three books.
At 101, at Ballarat, John Clancy, who
pioneered the Rainbow and Hindmarsh districts
of the Northern Wimmera (Vic.). He had
spoken to Ned Kelly when that desperado was
in his heyday.
At Bathurst (N.S.W.), Miss Pauline Bindley,
one of Australia’s most gifted sopranos and
successful teachers. Born at Bendigo, she had
her early musical tuition from her father, Allen
Bindley, who conducted a conservatorium in
that city. She trained further in England, sang
there and returned to Melbourne to teach
and continue singing up to a few years ago.
In Perth, at 68, Frank Llewellyn Gill, a
leading surgeon of the city, senior honorary
surgeon of both Royal Perth and the Princess
Margaret Hospital for Children. For his con-
tinuous services to the last-named since 1912
he was, in 1946, appointed a life-governor. A
foundation-Fellow of the Royal Australian
College of Surgeons, he was State president
of the B.M.A. in 1935. The principles in a
paper on urology, which he read at the B.M.A.
conference in Perth in 1948, were adopted by
Edinburgh University; also, he invented a
number of clinical instruments now widely used.
He was a Ist A.I.F. m.-o. in France.
At Timaru (N.Z.), at 78, William David
Campbell, well known in journalism, law and
education. Editor of the Timaru “Herald” in
1904, he had been New Zealand’s first official
war-correspondent, accompanying the 2nd
Contingent to South Africa for the Boer War.
Forsaking journalism, he qualified as a barrister
in 1911 and eventually became Crown solicitor
in Timaru. An 0.8. E. was awarded this year.


RELAXATION


ABORIGINALITIES
T’LL nominate the new main runway of
Kalgoorlie airport as the richest pave-
ment in Australia, when it’s completed.
It’s being paved with quartz from
Kanowna, the town that was first called
White Feather, and where some of the
richest finds were made in the early days.
That ore goes 18 grains to the ton —
which isn’t good enough to work —but
there’ll be 40,000 tons of it in the runway,
and the 1500 oz. of gold in it will be
worth over £22,000. That makes it
richer than Hannans-street, Kalgoorlie’s
main thoroughfare, which assays a mere
15 grains. Occasionally someone stoops
in Hannans-street and digs out a small
speck of the pure stuff, but I suppose
that practice will be frowned on at the
airport.—“ Bass.”
9 9 9 9
“Jas.”: The brown bittern the
bunyip of our mythology—is loath to
leave old haunts, even after they have
ceased to be suitable for his shy and
solitary temperament. Certain creeks
around Sydney that have for years
attracted picnic-parties and hikers still
shelter odd bittern diehards, which refuse
to leave, though constantly disturbed. In
like circumstances other aquatic fowl
either come to terms with man, like the
"Constable Smith, assign this case to me.”
black duck, the coot, the swamp-hen and
the white-faced heron, or else depart, but
the old “boomer” does neither. Not a
whit of his shyness and secrecy abates,
though he sees man constantly. He
either skulks out of sight in long reeds,
or else adopts a sticklike posture
amongst thick foliage of trees. Probably
the main reason why the bittern is hard
to hunt from his ancient habitats by
diurnal disturbances is because he is
normally nocturnal.
9 9.9 «
“Fairf”: A council-employee, needing
water to mix concrete, opened a water-
main hydrant-box and screwed in a
hydrant in the customary manner. But
when he tried to turn the flow off the
water still gushed out. He tried to dis-
connect the hydrant (which would cause
the valve to close automatically), but all
he achieved was a thorough soaking.
His SOS to the Water Board brought a
maintenance-man, who quickly located the
cause of the trouble: shellfish, the shape
of a pippi and about half-an-inch across
at the widest part, jammed under the
valve in hundreds. This type of fresh-
water shellfish, he said, breeds in the
mains.
9 9 9 9
“C. Fairer”: The day after pay-day
the “deucer” (second-engineer) probably
felt as sick as the boys in the ash-gang.
When asked where he wanted some 50
bags of ashes stacked, he growled faceti-
ously, “In me cabin.” Two hours later
he went to his cabin. The 50 sacks
weren’t all in it, but the gang had done
its best. Three firemen and one trimmer
paid-off the next day.
9 9 9 9
“Kelms”: A Perth daily pictured a
mushroom over 3 ft. in circumference and
weighing and quoted an authority
as saying that “if it was a true mush-
room—not a horse-mushroom—it was a
colossal one.” Don’t know what he meant
by a “true” mushroom —that’s just a
popular name given to some of the edible
toadstools, and you can’t apply it to any
distinct species of fungi—but this one
was obviously a horse-mushroom. The
name seems to be a corruption of coarse,
and this type frequently grows up to Min.
across and over an inch thick. It’s tough
and rather rank, but edible. The severe
pains felt after eating it are due to indi-
gestion, not poison.
9 9 9 9
“Dusty”: “Yair,” said Bill, who comes
from out near the Comer, “me and Lofty,
me mate, have the game sewn-up. When-
ever we git down to Sydney for a holiday,
which ain’t often, when we gits in them
trams and trains we always sit opposite
each other an’ keep our eyes skinned.
Ain’t had our pockets picked once.”
9 9 9 9
“S.G.”: So that British scientist who
“proved” that cows don’t sleep has
cropped up again, has he (B. 15/6/’55)?
Rot. All animals sleep. Even fish, which
can’t close their eyes, lapse into periods
of unconsciousness, and Nature has gone
to quite a lot of bother to ensure that
some animals can get into suitable posi-
tions for sleep. A horse, for instance, is
too heavy to be really comfortable lying
down. Its weight pressing on the ground
induces cramp and makes breathing diffi-
cult; but when it stands still and relaxes,
its leg joints automatically lock and sup-
port it. The cow gets over the difficulty
by propping itself up on its brisket, and
in that position, with its head lying back
“I think it’s called a Volkswagen.”
along its side, it can sleep in comfort.
However, it of course can, and often does,
lie fully stretched along the ground.
9 9*9
“J.P.C.”: The train was ready to leave
the siding and the driver’s patience had
reached its limit. Jumping down from the
footplate he strode up to the character
trying to climb into an empty truck,
glared disdainfully at the bag-
man’s badly packed swag and
clumsy effort to board the train, and
let fly: “F’r Gorsake, man, go an’ ask
th’ guard t’ let y’ ride in th’ van! ” Head-
ing back to the engine the driver paused
at another truck and banged his fist on
the door. An elderly, bearded face
appeared from under the tarpaulin. “See
if y’ can teach that codger something,”
the driver exploded, pointing to the
amateur now laying his case before the
guard. “Oh, ’im. ’E’ll never learn,”
replied the bearded one ; then asked with
concern: “When are we goin’? I’ve gotta
catch the milky at th’ junction.”
9 9 9 9
“Abi Tonus”: Atebrin is commonly
thought of as the synthetic drug that
saved thousands from malaria in the
war, but it does have other effects, and
a clinician’s hunch that it might bowl
tapeworm proved right. For years the
patient had been known to be harboring
the worm, and all efforts to remove it
had failed. Man and worm lived in an
uneasy equilibrium, the one becoming
anaemic and lethargic, the other more
reproductive, taking all it could
without unduly embarrassing the
host and not being just a sucker
all the time. Twenty-four hours
of fasting made both more irrit-
able than usual, and then the
man was given a tube to swallow
so that the opening on the side
got past the stomach and into
the small bowel; into the tube
was squirted nearly 15 grains of
atebrin in solution. This was
followed later by a packet of
Epsom-salts, and some two hours
later the worm, 7ft. long, made
the acquaintance of the outside
world.
9 9 *
“Quo Vadis”: One of life’s
great pleasures for Bob, the abo.
stockman, was a journey on a
North Queensland “mixed.” The
frequent siding-stops —for pas-
sengers, mail and goods, shunting
and watering—allowed ample
time for visiting the little pubs
and returning, bottle-laden, to
hold court amid a mess of ciga-
rette-butts, spilt beer and broken
sandwiches; inviting all his
“pals” and “mates” in the car-
riage to join him in social glass
and ballad. As the “marines” were
spent they flew out the open win-
dow. There were no conductors, guards
were tolerant, some not above sampling
the happy traveller’s ale. Then came a
new diesel-train. Bob’s first trip in the
spotless, air-conditioned job saw a blue-
uniformed conductor “chat” him, then
report ahead on his insobriety and
riotous behavior. He was emptied out,
swag and all, at the next station.
“Spin”: Not much bigger than a
swallow, black with pale wing-stripes and
a spot of white on the tail, the Wilson
storm-petrel breeds on Antarctic islands
and winters in the Indian Ocean and the
Timor Sea. Thus it travels several thou-
sand miles, feeding as it goes, braving
Storms and the consequent lean periods —
there’s little feed for a sea-bird during a
storm. And half those you see would be
from the last hatching, not more than
about four months old.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: Ever since, 22 years ago,
I first encountered the little town of
Bethungra, about 15 miles south of Coota-
mundra (N.S.W.), I’ve associated it in my
mind with a certain vegetation. A
stranger to the district, I’a gone there
to peg-out the site of a new homestead.
A strange weed covered the whole pad-
dock, and on the chosen site I started
clearing the stuff. That was my introduc-
tion to the delightful herbage known
appropriately as “stinkwort,” and I was
informed that it was at the stage of growth
when the perfume had reached its
zenith. The memory lingers. But appar-
ently I was not the first to associate
the locality with the weed; in a
glossary of aborigine place-names I re-
cently came across: “Bethungra: abori-
ginal, ‘Weeds.’ ”
9 * * «
A BLEAK day, and I mooched along a
gum-lined creek at the bottom of the
gully.
Not a bird to be seen, though the
banksia and bottle-brush that covered
both sides of the gully sheltered hordes
of honeyeaters. A sunless half-hour fol-
lowed before a ripple of bird-chatter rose
and ran through the heath.
Almost immediately honeyeaters of all
kinds arrived at the creek. Spine-bills
chased each other excitedly through the
gums and yellow-faced honeyeaters
splashed jubilantly in the cold water.
Fully five minutes passed before the
sun emerged to gild the gum-tops, and
give meaning to the birds’ exhilaration.
Interested in such uncanny anticipation
of a sun that had appeared for the first
time that day, I waited. A sunlit hour
filled with the bright clamor of birds fol-
lowed ; then, suddenly, as if the singers
had been simultaneously stricken dumb,
the chorus ceased.
A split-second and I was alone, aston-
ished to note how loud the water
sounded as it rolled over rocks.
Several minutes later, when the sun was
smothered in heavy cloud and sleety ram
commenced, I saw meaning in the head-
long rush of the honeyeaters, both m
arrival and departure.
Nothing rational or fallible about their
weather forecasts. As one bird they
knew.
SAAEDI.
READING ELIZABETHANS
BY THE SEA
Here, where bullying ocean strides
in peacock robes along the sand
beneath the snow-and-silver sheen
of gulls in flight, I find the breeze
poignant with old litanies
and grave Te Deums they would raise
when victory lit up their days.
These roisterers of court and cove
pined for power and treasure-trove,
yet when they sang, sang all of love.
(Twang languidly the honeyed lute,
sing of breasts like full-ripe fruit;
sing of an ankle like the stem
of spring’s first wild flower; perfume blent
with ringlets of a witty maid,
always young and innocent!)
The stench of war, the heaving deck,
the stinking hold and rotting wreck,
fcetor of swamp and gloomy grove—
all these they knew; with these they strove
yet when they wrote, they wrote of love.
Swollen their tongues while bitter foam
salted beard and stung the cheek.
They prayed and fluxed, they ached and swilled;
they soaked and feasted ere they killed.
No shrift was here for frail or meek,
washed up on beaches far from home.
With clumsy chart and astrolabe
their captains took it turn about
to sweat foolhardy ventures out.
From mats of chiefs they called their sons
and brothers’ sons aboard such craft
as housed the hero or the daft
to beard great listing galleons.
Home, home at last, their battles fought,
they badgered and conspired at court —
they who had asked no quarter shown
now fawned around a spinster’s throne.
O lute and viol, breathe again
those brave airs, fresh as summer rain
while those who lusted, bragged and strove
break other hearts with songs of love.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


PRESSURE
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON \\ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MAN UFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.I.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON $
osiiixrvAv
*££#s
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Fergnson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers ,
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
* COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
I'elegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
*
fur
The word
for Brandy
since 1858
#Tk
SPECIAL HOSPITj
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
TST
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
TST.4O.IS
TT was the sanatorium ward’s picture-
night, and Sammy, a nor’-west
aborigine, was whittling away on a rush
order for a tailor-made boomerang dur-
ing the performance of a Western. As the
curvaceous heroine, bound and gagged,
writhed appealingly while the black-
bearded villain prepared to enjoy her
charms, Sammy could control himself
no longer. Leaping to his feet, he uttered
a piercing yell and hurled his boomerang.
—“H.B.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Don’t know if the
water-bag is an Australian invention —
hardly think it is—but I’d like to see a
monument to it erected somewhere on
the fringe of the desert-country. In a
way there is one. When the people of
Kalgoorlie built a statue to the memory
of the city’s founder, Paddy Hannan,
they depicted the old weight-chaser (as
Peter Bladen noted in “Lazy Walkabout”)
offering a drink from his water-bag. His
most precious possession held the greatest
gift he could offer.
* V f »
“Bogaduck”: Whatever a station-
owner may think of a sheep which grows
several types of wool (B. 15/6/’55), such
an animal is invaluable for experiments
in the effects of various types of fodder
on wool-production. With a flock you’re
handicapped by some being better doers
than others. With two different types of
fleece on one animal, you can be sure
that diet alone is responsible for differ-
ences in the wool when the diet is varied
from season to season. A few of these
freak sheep in the hands of scientists
engaged on animal-nutrition research may
produce findings worth millions to the
wool-industry.
• * * #
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Curfew for N.G. and
Papuan natives in all Territory townships
is to be relaxed soon on trial. The new
hours will be from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m.,
instead of the present 9 p.m. to 6 a.m.,
but (except, perhaps, on the first night of
the change) there will be a prohibition of
the making of noises “likely to annoy or
disturb or be a nuisance.” The change
is being made to see if progressive relaxa-
tion is possible without adverse effects,
it’s part of the new approach to education
and recreation for the natives, including
Boy Scouts, Girl Guides and evening-
study classes. Many natives in. positions
of trust and responsibility have felt that
the 9 p.m. curfew was an unjustifiable
restriction on their personal freedom. All
hands will watch the change with interest
—including the police, who will check
any alteration in the incidence of crime.
* * * *
“N.A.8.”: A Waikato (N.Z.) dairy-
farmer, incensed when he saw a party of
motorists pick three large baskets of
mushrooms from his pastures, followed
the car into town and found it parked
outside a cottage. Entering, he was help-
ing himself to a choice crop of vegetables
when the occupants came out to remon-
strate. “Well,” he told them, “you set me
the example.” He got away with a good
swag of veges, too.
* * * *
“Kelms”: At the end of the long
straight stretch across the Nullarbor the
Trans-line deviates slightly to cross a
bridge over a dry watercourse. That’s
the Ponton River. Normally it’s dry, but
every so often exceptionally heavy rains
fill the lakes up beyond Wiluna (WA.)
and send the overflow from lake to lake
in a winding stream that swings around
to the north-east of Kalgoorlie and out
into the Nullarbor. Then the Ponton runs
for about 400 miles before losing itself
in the limestone caves. Once it must
have been a big stream, and it probably
played its part as one of the eroding
agents that levelled the centre. What I’d
like to know is if it was called after, or
by, the Ponton brothers who in 1880
established the station based on the fresh-
water lakes beneath the big red rocks
of Ballajuinya (now misspelt Balla-
donia)? The natives often spoke of these
rocks, but wouldn’t reveal their location,
and the brothers and their partner may
have explored well into the Nullarbor
before they found them. Did they locate
the Ponton River, and was it running
then? There must be somebody who’d
know.
THE WHALES
Dark traceries of tea-trees rise where stars
still burn the east. The low dark ridge appears
where honey-eaters’ tremulous arias
awaken from the thrusts of grass-tree spears.
Beneath its pelt of wallaby scrub the land
in sleeping forms of heave and hollow breathes
and, still unseen, by cliff and curve of sand
murmuring, the marbled deep recoils and
wreathes.
I come where scrub in flower is like a lyre
set in the wind where sky and ocean meet.
The stars are done. The bars of cloud take are,
and all the fretted coast lies at my feet.
O look! where, bursting from the swell of
ocean,
the whales arise and blow in bright commotion.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
SNAKE EAT SNAKE
ONE of the most controversial subjects
of Australian bush-lore is the sup-
posed taking of young snakes by their
mother into the protective custody of her
mouth when danger threatens. To declare
myself at once, I subscribe to the “What
rot! ” school of thought.
Every consideration of logic, and bio-
logic probability, denies the possibility of
such maternal concern, even if it were
otherwise likely; and every alleged eye-
witness account of this phenomenon that
I have so far heard has been rendered
suspect by the passage of time, the un-
reliability of the human memory for
detail, the hysterical state of the observer
at the time, and the almost universal
ignorance of snake anatomy and habits.
Snakes are all born from eggs, but the
method of delivery varies. In some species
the eggs are laid, and, in the case of some
constrictors, are even incubated by the
lady coiling round them. In others the
eggs hatch inside the body of the mother,
and the young are delivered alive.
As a general but not absolutely in-
variable rule, venomous snakes bear live
young, and non-venomous lay their eggs.
Notable local exceptions to the former
group are the brown-snake family and
the taipan, which lay their eggs in logs,
leaf-mould and other suitable places, and
immediately leave them to the forces and
ferments of natural warmth to hatch.
The young are entirely self-sufficient and
effective hunters the moment they emerge.
I have witnessed a number of egg-
layings and live-births in captivity, and
have even acted as midwife at a few;
and in not one instance was there any
suggestion of tender concern by the
mother for her brats. Very much to the
contrary, the panic was entirely mine in
the thought that I would be unable to
rescue the young from the labor-ward
before Mater began to look at them with
epicurean assessment.
Certainly the lady will allow, will even
encourage, them to enter her mouth, but
her purpose is not protective ; it’s entirely
gustatory. They represent a handy meal.
A tiger-snake has been known to pro-
duce over 100 young at a birth, a red-
bellied black-snake over 30. A retreat
of this infantile horde to the parental
gullet at every alarm would be as uncom-
fortable for both parties as it is incredible
to anyone who had studied snakes.
As for the young of the brown, green-
tree, taipan, carpet, diamond and other
species which hatch from eggs, they do
just what all other snakelings do when
they face the world, either from eggs or
alive: they go for the lick of their
wriggling young lives to the nearest cover,
forgetting mother, and by her forgotten—
they hope! ’
A. H.


Im convinced CAPSTAN
is better tobncco f
For me the Capstan blend has everything for
complete smoking enjoyment.
“The fine, mild Virginia leaf used in
Capstan's own blend gives it the flavour and
fragrance you, too, appreciate.”
Ask everywhere for —CAPSTAN
WM
wm
'
V / !
CAPSTAN
-'belter' tobacco
wm
\i .#m.
i m
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT
VIRGINIA TOBACCO
206D.11.54
ANALYTICAL CHEMIST
required for
RUM JUNGLE CONTROL
LABORATORY
A vacancy exists for an analytical
chemist in our modern, air-con-
ditioned instrumented control labora-
tory, handling the analyses of
uranium concentrate and allied
products.
Minimum qualification, admitting to
Associateship of the Eoyal Austra-
lian Chemical Institute (or equiva-
lent), is essential, together with a
sound knowledge of inorganic
analytical chemistry.
Accommodation for a single man, or
housing for a married man, will be
available at a low rental.
Commencing salary from £l2OO p.a.
Liberal Provident Fund.
Pour weeks Annual Leave with
Holiday Bonus and paid re-
turn Air Pares.
Applications, closing August IS, 1965,
and any enquiries, should be addressed to
The Manager,
Territory Enterprises Pty. Ltd.,
Bum Jungle, Northern Territory.
IXL
/
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers, of:-
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Industrial Setback
THE last quarter of the 1954-
55 financial year will show
a tailing-off in sales by companies
engaged in a number of manu-
facturing industries, judging by
production statistics for April—
the latest figures available from
Canberra.
Many items used in the
building-industry were produced
in smaller quantities in April
than in March this year or in
April, 1954. Clay-bricks were
down in both respects, and so
were terra-cotta roofing-tiles.
The same applied to bath-
heaters ; baths themselves were
still in fair demand, and gas-
and electric-stoves were above
average, as were sinks. But
refrigerator output is down
markedly, and even washing-
machines seem to be in poorer
demand. Radios and radio-
grams are also dropping.
Vacuum-cleaners appear to be
selling strongly again.
But in the household-
appliance field generally there
is a falling-off or stabilising of
nearly all production. The
great increase in the output of
fractional-horsepower electric-
motors which took place in
1953-54 has not occurred in
1954-55, though a small increase
will probably be shown. This
is a fair indicator of the output
of electric gadgets generally.
A thing to be noted particu-
larly in the case of steadying or
declining output is that concerns
which have increased their
capital recently in anticipation
of enlarged demand will prob-
ably have more difficulty in
maintaining dividends than those
which have not expanded—
assuming all other factors to be
equal.
Even in the motor-car indus-
try there has been a steadying
in the output of car-bodies.
But it is in the clothing-trade
that production has suffered
most of all. The drop applies
to boots and shoes, felt hats,
cotton piecegoods, woollens,
worsteds, rayon cloths, men’s
hosiery and male and female
ready-made clothing of nearly
every description.
Production of refined sugar,
biscuits, jam, preserved fruits
and confectionery has fallen off.
Most other foods have
increased —more meats, wheat
products, ice-cream, beer and
cigarettes, though, with the
exception of butter, milk-
products are down.
Floor - coverings (linoleum,
carpets, felt, etc.) have dropped
slightly. Sporting-goods output
is levelling-off.
It would seem that the tradi-
tional guide to business activity
as a whole —the condition of the
building-industry—is again a
fairly reliable pointer, even
under conditions of full employ-
ment. There has been a falling-
off in homebuilding since the
beginning of the present year,
and the increase in city building
does not appear to have offset
the drop—that would, at least,
account for the fall in the pro-
duction in bricks and tiles, as
well as those household fittings
already mentioned.
Steel, of course, though still
increasing slightly, remains in
short supply. Cement output
has increased, and is now almost
equal to demand. Output of
sawn timber has been fairly well
sustained.
Until the bottleneck in hous-
ing can be overcome there seems
to be a likelihood that many
types of production will remain
in check. There is still a big
lag in homebuilding; but in
the present condition of full
employment it has been difficult
to get tradesmen for housing
jobs, and costs have again been
inflating. Hence the central
bank’s policy of restricting loans
on homebuilding.
The effect of import-restric-
tion has not yet been felt in
most industries. When it does
become apparent there may be
a stimulus to a number of types
“A genuine antique, Madam. Frightfully expensive.
But, of course, you know wages and materials have
skyrocketed."
of manufacturing, including
clothing and electrical goods.
But whether manpower and
monetary conditions will
encourage a pepping-up of
homebuilding remains to be
seen. The overseas-trade situa-
tion does not encourage a liberal
credit policy, and trade-unions
are again becoming difficult in
several industries.
£7O Million Budget Surplus
The Federal Government’s
surplus of £7O million for the
year to June 30 has been
described generally in the press
as being a record. That is not
correct. In respect of the year
1951-52 the surplus was £9B£
million, but it was whisked
surreptitiously into the National
Debt Redemption Reserve, and
not much was heard about it.
But it was every bit as much a
surplus as the present one, and
each pound of it was worth a
good deal more than a present-
day pound. It came out of a
£lOOO-million Budget neverthe-
less.
Commonwealth revenue last
year was £44 million more than
estimates at £lO6l million, and
expenditure was £26 million
lower at £991 million.
For 1952-53 the surplus was
£13.4 million ; for 1953-54 it
was £56 million. This latter
amount was transferred to the
National Debt Redemption Re-
serve, and was used to help
make up the deficiency in public
borrowings for the year 1953-54.
The £7O million surplus for
1954-55 will be used to help fill
the gap in public borrowings
that was very obvious in the
past year. The States will get
the benefit of this part of it, and
other appropriations will check
the inflationary trend towards
Treasury-bill finance once again.
The public loan market sub-
scribed £127.4 million last year.
State domestic raisings were
£B.l million. A Commonwealth
internal loan of £4B million was
provided from counterpart funds
of International Bank loans,
proceeds of the Swiss loan and
the Debt Redemption reserve.
The Commonwealth made no
call on new loan-raisings during
the year for redemption of
unconverted . securities. The
market deficiency was really met
out of revenue, as was Common-
wealth works-expenditure.
£6B Million Trade Deficit
The adverse trade-balance for
1954-55 was £6B million. This
takes no account of invisible
items, such as interest, freight
and overseas insurance charges
or capital movements. These
will, it is estimated, run to nearly
£135 million, which would take
Australia’s adverse balance of
payments for the year to over
£2OO million.
In the preceding year there
was a favorable trade-balance of
£146.7 million. This was just
about equal to the adverse
balance on invisible items, so
that the international account
balanced for that year.
In the year that closed on
June 30, imports were £843
million (up £162 million), and
exports £775 million (down £53
million). The total worsening in
the balance of trade was thus
£215 million.
In the dollar area, Australia’s
adverse balance last year was
£52 million, compared with £lB
million the period before.
During the past year the Gov-
ernment’s reimposition of im-
port-restrictions did not have
time to stem the increasing flow
of overseas goods.
Wool
The wool-clip for the 1954-55
season was a record, but values
fell by about 12| p.c. from the
previous year’s level. Average
price for greasy was about 72d.
The total production of wool
last year was around 3,910,000
bales, and the cheque was
roughly £350 million, compared
with £391 million in 1953-54,
£405 million in 1952-53, £3OB
million in 1951-52, and a record
£636 million in 1950-51.
The clip for 1955-56 is esti-
mated at about 4,016,000 bales —
an increase of 3.3 p.c. on last
season’s clip. This season opens
with the statistical position of
the industry quite promising.
Unsold stocks are the lowest for
some years, and United States
demand is increasing. The past
season closed with prices stable
at levels established during the
previous three months.
In the United States and
Canada there has been a return
to wool in the manufacture of
men’s suitings after an extensive
trial of synthetic materials.


-4-
MM
Siri
7
"*T
a
*»»»
%
AVIATION
m
SERVICE
iw:
ft
// Ut/A
U ••iff.
1 '•t'i
j"n
m
Vina
<s>
J’J
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited> London
tin
tit
Future
m
m*
When I left Australia a few weeks ago a public
discussion was proceeding on the need for a
national song, or sub-anthem to “God Save the
Queen.”
Thought of that has coke to me several times
since my arrival in the United States, where the
people are so reverential of their flag and of the
anthem that extols it.
What an influence on American life Francis
Scott Key had when he sat down in 1814 to write
the “Star Spangled Banner”! He was telling of the
flag that still flew above Fort McGeorge, in spite
of heavy bombardment.
Even as he wrote, Frenchmen of Napoleon’s
Army were marching across Europe singing the
“Marseillaise.” A young captain of engineers,
R'ouget de L’lsle, had written it in one brilliant
burst of composition 22 years before.
Now, here, to me, is a remarkable thing: In
neither case did the writer realise he was producing
a work that millions would take up in their sung
proclamation of nationhood.
Rouget de LTsle had made his masterpiece not
for those who first gave it national voice the
French Revolutionaries, with whom he had no
sympathy—but for his country’s Army of the Rhine
in the Franco-Prussian War.
What matter? He caught the spirit of France.
Just as the poet Key captured the spirit of the new
America when he lauded the bravery of a few men
in one embattled fort.
Which seems to prove that the great symbolic
songs of nations come spontaneously; inspired;
drawn from the Faith of a people.
They are macle not in musical academies or in
the skills of some gifted master of tone. They well
from the heart of a race.
And with all respect to the national songs we
honour now, I believe that is how the real
Australian Anthem will come; rich and full, and
heroic in its every line.
// //cis/c^S
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
XHERE are healthy signs that
New Zealand industries are
at long last setting their sails
to the free trade-winds and are
casting off the ties that have so
long held them back.
Important, indeed, it is to
remember that the majority
of Maoriland’s manufacturing
enterprises have been developed
only since the slump of the early
1930’5. They were built up
during a Socialist Government’s
regime, and later in the hot-
house of a war-time economy.
Socialist controls both hampered
their development and protected
them from competition. Many
were inefficient; they survived
only because import-control kept
lower-priced, better-quality com-
petitive overseas products off the
local market.
When the Nationalists took
over, with promised removals of
controls, many New Zealand in-
dustrialists could not cope with
their new-found freedom and
introduction to competitive
markets. When National got the
nod from the electorate there
were signs that a sellers’ market
was coming to a close. Meeting
the changed demands of a
buyers’ market is hard if you’ve
had things your own way for so
long. Now it looks as if the long
period of readjustment is over.
Boldest step of all is that of
the farmers ; certainly the most
refreshing. Cornerstone of New
Zealand’s economy, primary pro-
duction has always been fostered
with the care of a home gardener
tending his first tomato. Primary
producers, although not always
regarded as snowy-headed boys,
have been treated by successive
Governments with respectful
circumspection.
Meat- and dairy-farmers have
thrown overboard a bulk-
purchasing agreement with the
British Government which
afforded them a guaranteed price.
They certainly gambled on
higher prices which didn’t
eventuate, but they have gained,
they reckon, a year’s start on
their competitors —Australia and
Argentina. Meat Board chair-
man J. D. Ormond says that
Maoriland producers will be able
to find out what the British con-
sumer wants, how he wants it
packed, what price he wants to
pay. The industry will be geared
to meet the demand. Hand-in-
hand with this decision is the
searching-out of new markets.
Meat has been shipped to
Greece, and Russia is becoming
a large buyer of the ewe-mutton
Britain doesn’t want. Best-
quality New Zealand meats are
being exported, not consumed at
home as in Australia. The
Canadian market is being
probed ; butter and lamb prob-
ably will be marketed during the
Canadian winter. There are the
markets of the East waiting.
Only obstacle here is the ability
of the customer to pay the price.
All this would be normal
under a free-enterprise system,
but it makes pleasant reading
when it is realised that the in-
dustry which took the step has
long been kept in the stultifying
atmosphere of protection and
controls and ordered marketing.
Other industries are also tap-
ping the export market. The boss
of the Hawke’s Bay vegetable-
and fruit-canning firm, J. Wattie
Canneries, Ltd., has found that
the British market can take 12
million cans of pears a year. He
aims to fill the order. Born in
1936, this firm was rapidly ex-
panded during the war years
when a sure market for canned
food existed, but considered pro-
duction to meet the demands of
consumers has allowed it to meet
competition from importers.
Paper and Woodpulp
Two-hundred tons of wood-
pulp were recently exported to
British buyers who normally get
supplies from Scandinavia. New
Zealand was able to meet the
orders at a competitive price.
With New Zealand now pro-
ducing more pulp than it con-
sumes, new markets will surely
open because there are signs that
Scandinavian woodpulp is tend-
ing to price itself off the market.
Work at the newsprint mills at
Kawerau was held up because of
delay in taking delivery of the
final section of machinery. When
this arrived at Auckland, appeals
were made to dockers to work
the clock round to get it off the
ship. It won’t be long before the
setback has been overcome. One
of the world’s largest paper-mills
will soon roll into profit.
Battle of Inches
Labor member of Parliament
Mabel Howard not so long ago
astonished Mr. Speaker and
honorable members by brandish-
ing an oversize pair of women’s
pants. Why, she forthrightly
demanded, did manufacturers
make only unsightly balloons for
oversized women and keep the
frilly froth for the less rotund?
She demanded that the size of
garments be marked in inches.
“Those pants” became the sub-
ject of ribald comment and car-
toon, but manufacturers have
taken notice and will now cater
for the vanity of the many XOS
Maoriland matrons.
Manufacturer and consumer
met on common ground in the
Wellington Town Hall, when
800 delegates of the women’s
section of Federated Farmers
met clothing-manufacturers. One
of the women who, at last year’s
conference, described herself as
the back-end of a bus and was
bitter about not being able to
buy dainty underwear received
a surprise this time. A manufac-
turer gave her a fetching set of
frills disguised as a nightgown
—of the right size. A maker of
men’s and boys’ pants confi-
dently handed the women
samples to demonstrate the care
with which they were made. The
garments were returned to him
with belt-loops broken and
stitching undone —the reason,
perhaps, why so many farmers
hitch their trousers up with
fencing-wire and nails. Boots,
stockings, dresses were also
thrown to the she-wolves, who
supplied pungent comment on
quality.
While all this may seem
trivial, it is significant. Industries
which try to meet consumer-
demand, improve standards, and
ask for criticism aren’t inefficient.
There are signs that most New
Zealand industries have stopped
leaning on controlled protection
and are showing that sturdy
health a competitive market
demands.
Peko (N.T.)
Peko (Tennant Creek), N.L.,
has an issued capital of 5,600,000
shares of 2s. 6d. each. At Bs. a
share on the market, the specu-
lator’s valuation of the mine is
just over £2 million. Such a
figure includes a big amount for
unproved ore and/or gold and
copper values. The rise in the
Australian price of copper by
£34 10s. a ton to £436 ss. a ton
will help the co., but it makes
little difference to the long-term
assessment of the mine’s valua-
tion. A lot more opening-up of
profitable ore-bodies is needed
to justify Bs. a share. That is
the crux of the position.


A Group of Experts to Manage
v . ••• i.' •• •'■ V . i • "... '1 , v. • .. J;Lt’
a
*
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management**
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
(Vice-Chairman)
A. E. Bond
F. B. Fleming
J. R. Faviell
G. B. Kater
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary:
P. H. Andrews
Chief Trust Officers
M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.100.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Kelvinator Australia, Ltd. (Adel.)
irvESPITE the return of a buyers’
market, which means keener com-
petition, this 23-year-old Adelaide-
controlled organisation earned an attrac-
tive and record profit of £238,097 (up
£3058) last term. The parent and its
seven subsidiaries are engaged in pro-
duction of high-grade domestic- and
commercial-refrigeration units, electric
petrol-pumps, washing-machines and
other domestic and electrical appliances.
They have Commonwealth-wide connec-
tions, and have put up a consistently
good performance from the start.
Still, there are sounds of a knife being
sharpened in the refrigeration trade, and
conditions generally cannot be expected
to remain always as buoyant as they are
today. However, the co. has an alert
management, and is otherwise well-
equipped to meet whatever lies ahead.
Finances are sound, reserves strong, and
there is a wide margin between the profit
and dividend distributions. Also plant is
modern, production is on flow-lines, and
the set-up is claimed to be flexible. So,
although net earnings might recede from
the present high level, the current 15 p.c.
to the ords., of which 5 p.c. is called
bonus, doesn’t appear to be in any imme-
diate danger.
The market therefore prices the f.-p.
ss. shares at 10s. 2d. (10s. 9d. a year
ago) to return 7.3 p.c. at last term’s rate
of distribution. The 6 p.c. second and
5 p.c. third prefs. at 225. and 17s. 6d.
yield 5.6 p.c. and 5.9 p.c. respectively.
The p.c. first prefs. seldom appear
on ’Change. Net tangible cover is 425. 3d.
per £1 of paid capital—the prefs. enjoy
priority as to dividends and capital and
share in surplus assets.
For the year to March 31 last, Austra-
lian output of domestic refrigerators
and washing-machines increased by 16.4
p.c. and 30.5 p.c. respectively, and sales
of petrol-pumps expanded, too. Also costs
were relatively steady, but margins were
a bit finer. After allowing £195,000 (up
£39,000), equal to 9s. in the £, for taxation,
and making “certain provisions deemed
necessary,” net earnings were figured
only £3058 stronger at £238,097:
e Dividends
< Prefs. N Re-
Mar., Profit. Ist 2nd 3rd Ord. Total. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1951.. 838 74 6 5 15 79,700 579,636
.Taxes, previous years, £5530 .. .. 674,10.6
1952.. 822 74 6 5 15 79,700 639,228
Share premiums, £11,250 .. .. 650,478
1953.. 74 6 5 10 64,700 . 733,386
Tax overprovided, £33,353 .. .. 766,739
1954- 74 6 5 15 113,450 888,328
Tax underprovided, £3372 .. .. 884,956
1955- 74 6 6 15 113,450 1,009,603
The pref. divs. called for £12,200 and the
balance of the year’s profit was 33.4 p.c.
on the £675,000 of ord. capital as against
33, 25.8, 29.4, 39.7 and 30.2 p.c. back
to 1950. So nothing had to be strained
to maintain the 15 p.c. distribution, mak-
ing the average rate for the last seven
years 14.3 p.c., compared with 10 p.c. for
the preceding nine years. The fatness of
the profit ratios on ord. capital owes
much to the size of reserves (£1,009,603
at March 31 last), and the £230,000 of
pref. money, costing on the average 5.2
p.c., is earning a lot more than its keep.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s profit was
12.4 p.c.
The year’s gross outlay on fixed assets
was £227,000, but the net addition to the
book-value of freeholds (up £8942) and
plant (up £90,477) was only £99,419:
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £230,000 £230,000 £230,000
Ord 675,000 675,000 675,000
Reserves .. .. 733,886 888,328 1,009,603
Overdraft .. 162,372
Creditors, etc. .. 547,868 694,423 809,990
Tax provision .. 280,457 225,405 296,866
Final div. .. 36,100 73,600 73,600
£2,502,811 £2,786,756 £3,257,431
Freeholds .. .. 389,234 432,285 441,227
Plant .. .. 303,353 399,469 489,946
Stocks .. .. 1,439,840 1,'599,425 2,122,675
Debtors .. .. 128,112 216,399 196,367
Cash, etc. .. 242,272 139,178 7,216
£2,502,811 £2,786,756 £3,257,431
Stocks were £523,250 heavier, mainly on
account of raw materials. The amount
coming to trade creditors rose by £115,567
and the co. went to the bank for £163,372.
The net working capital (£983,430)
increased by £20,856.
Two new lines —a frozen-food cabinet
and window air-conditioner —are pre-
sently to be put on the market, and radio
and television equipment is to be added
to the list later. As a first step toward
further integration of the co.’s manu-
factures in Adelaide, whereby activities
are to be concentrated in two areas
instead of four at present, a new factory
is being erected at Finsbury. The aim is
to quicken and cheapen production. The
cost of the programme (not mentioned)
will probably be met partly from new
fixed-capital and partly from borrowed
funds.
Edwards Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
/THE co.’s scrip, which possesses all the
-*■ ingredients of a sound industrial
equity, has long commanded a substantial
premium in the market. For this and
other reasons, including the issue of new
shares at substantial premiums, the return
to investors hasn’t been as good as the
declared rate of dividend and periodic
new share-issues might suggest.
Since 1947 £345,424 of new share-
capital, which brought with it £319,235
of share-premiums, has been gathered,
making paid capital £721,329, the last
£120,231 of which was issued at a
premium of 50 p.c. shortly before the
close of accounts in 1954. The div.,
steady at 10 p.c. for 11 years to 1949,
rose to Hi p.c. in 1950, followed by
12| p.c. for the next three years, and
then 15 p.c. for the two years to the close
of last accounts. Over the last eight years
the average rate was 12.3 p.c., which is
equal to 6.4 p.c. on the total amount
(capital and share-premiums) put up by
shareholders during this period. Simi-
larly the 15 p.c. div. is equal to a wink
over 8 p.c., or 10 p.c. on the last £120,231
of capital already referred to.
One of the features which intrigue the
market is the £1,142,217 of visible reserves
—the inner strength is believed to be sub-
stantial, too —which support and assist
the £721,389 of share capital. Hopes are
that some of the accumulation will be
capitalised by the issue of bonus-shares.
Over the last 12 months the price of the
co.’s f.-p. £1 shares advanced from
595. 6d. to 735. At the higher figure the
return is only 4.1 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks for, say,
5.7 p.c. on his money counts on a one-
for-two gift scrip-issue and a 14 p.c. div.,
which would then call for £151,491, or
£31,329 more profit than was claimed last
term. Certainly profits have always been
conservatively stated, which also serves
to emphasise the probability that the
board is more likely to be cautious than
generous where gift-giving is involved.
Last term world paper markets showed
more stability than for some time past.
Demand continued at a high level, and
prices rose gradually, without evidence of
abnormality. Many mills, both overseas
and in Australia, are fully booked for
months ahead, and there is nothing at the
moment to suggest a fall in either demand
or prices, the chairman says. Turnover
(amount not stated) increased, and costs
were relatively steady. But after making
all provisions considered necessary, the
board disclosed only £5987 more profit:
To Re- Re-
Apr.. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1960.. 64,454 Hi p.c. = 62,005 2,449 740,356
Unexplained addition, £199,438 .. 636,764
1951.. 75,492 124 p.c. = 68,895 6,597 946.391
Share premiums, etc., £50,085 ..
1952.. 84,229 124 p.c. = 72,020 12,209 1,008,685
1953" 83:632 12$ ~ » 75.145 8,487 1,017,172
From inner reserves, etc, £28,977 .. I* 646 . 146
Share premiums, £60,115 .. • • 1,106,264
1954 114,173 15 p.c.= 90,174 23,999 1,130,263
1955. . 120,162 15 „ ~ 108,208 11.954 1,142,217
The £120,162 of profit claimed was 16.6
p.c. on capital as against 18.9, 12.9, 14.6,
13.7 and 11.7 p.c. back to 1950. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was a moderate
6.4 p.c., which, all things considered, sug-
gests that the board might have been able
to show a stronger net figure if it had
wanted to.
Continued expansion of the undertak-
ing and a sound financial structure are
features of the balance-sheet:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £601,158 £721,389 £721,389
Reserves .. .. 1,017,172 1,130,263 1,142,217
Creditors, etc.* .. 321,303 574,477 874,270
Tax reserve .. 294,897 209,112 210,481
Final div. .. 18,786 33,815 27,052
£2,253,316 £2,669,056 £2,975,409
Freeholds .. .. 178,598 192,248 236,802
Stocks .. .. 916,725 1,001,678 1,123,275
Debtors .. .. 896,540 1,149,234 1,362,771
Cash, bonds and
shares .. .. 261,453 325,896 252,561
£2,253,316 £2,669,056 £2,975,409
* Including provisions, etc.
Debtors’ balances (up £213,537) are ade-
quately protected by securities and/or
reserves, and there is an invisible shock-
absorber, said to be ample for any fore-
seeable contingency, in the stocks item
(up £121,537). The net addition of
£44,554 to freeholds reflects purchase of
a warehouse and adjoining land at New-
castle, of small office premises in Adelaide,
and of two blocks of land at Hindmarsh
(near Adelaide) on which it is intended to
build a warehouse with room for expan-
sion. Modernisation of existing ware-
houses continues. Subject to economic
developments, it all gives the future of
the undertaking a rosy look.
Permewan Wright, Ltd.
TN the station-supply, produce, carrying,
agency and general-merchandising busi-
ness, this 71-year-old does the bulk of its
trade with graziers, wheatgrowers and
other primary-producers in the back-
country in Victoria and N. S. Wales,
where it has 26 and 16 branches respec-
tively, and there is another at Mt.
Gambier, South Australia.
The strong underlying demand
generated by a run of good to fan-
seasons, and, for the most part, high
prices, together with alert management,
sent turnover bounding along from £l|
million in 1944 to a peak of over £7 mil-
lion in 1952, when the figure was assisted
“substantially” by imports of some
special hardware lines. The fall in wool
prices brought a sharp drop in sales and
profits in 1953. Since then there has been
a steady recovery in the figures, thanks
to expanding merchandising business,
Which has more than offset declining sales
of produce.
Shareholders joined in the prosperity
through lifts in the div. and issues to new
share-capital on favorable terms. Divs.
averaged 7.5 p.c. for the five years to
1945, followed by averages of 10.2 p.c.
and 11.8 p.c. for the two succeeding
quinquenniums. And, over the last
decade, those on the register put up
£500,000 of fresh capital, plus £180,499
of share-premiums—which took some of
the icing off the cake —and visible reserves
climbed from £136,573 to £691,697.
Last new share-issue was 200,000 £1
ords. at a premium of ss. each in October,
1954. Owing to the changing character
of turnover and world-trend of prices
for primary products, growth of the
undertaking looks like being more
gradual over the next few years. The
market therefore regards the co. as a
steady 12-percenter, and prices the f.-p.
£1 shares at 38s. 6d. to return 6.2 p.c.
on that basis. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 395. 9d.
Last term turnover increased by about
£400,000, reaching not quite £7.0 million.
Combined net earnings of parent and sub-
sidiary—P.W. Pty. (paid capital £20,000)
handles the wholesale side of some of
the parent’s business increased by
£17,141:
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Kb— Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1950 .. 74,706 10 p.c. = 33,333 1 B(U , n .
To doubtful debts, £15,000 ..} 26,373 304,504
1951 .. 113,718 12 p.c. = 51,000 7
To doubtful debts, £20,000..} 42,718 347,222
Share premiums, etc., £36,874 net .. 384,096
1952 .. 147,848 12 p.c. = 55,500 \ M ~f l
To doubtful debts, £25,000..} 67,348 451,444
1953 .. 90,992 11 p.c. = 55,000 35,992 487,436
Capital loss, £1350 .. .. .. 486,086
1954 . . 113,296 12 p.c. = 60,000 53,296 539,382
Murray Shipping recovery, £245 .. 539,627
Prom tax provision, £31,500 .. .. 571,127
Share-premiums, £50,000 .. .. 621,127
Unexplained additions, £4133 .. 625,260
1955 .. 130,437 12 p.c. = 64,000 66,437 691,697
The £130,437 of profit claimed was 24.4
p.c. on average capital employed com-
pared with 22.6, 18.2, 31.9, 26.7 and
22.4 p.c. back to 1950. The div. was kept
at 12 p.c., leaving more to put on the
shelf than was distributed. That leaves
out of the reckoning £31,500 overpro-
vided for taxation in previous years, the
share-premiums (£50,000) and other items
interlined in the table.
There was a marked improvement in
the financial position, the growth in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£883,674)
being £305,716, due mainly to introduc-
tion of fresh capital:
, -P.W. and Subsidiary
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £500,000 £500,000 £700,000
Reserves ..' .. 487,434 539,380 691,695
Outside interests. .554
Notes .. .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Creditors* . . 677,283 812,333 784,846
Taxation provision 232,596 161,813 148,995
Final dividends .. 30,000 35,000 34,000
£1,927,318 £2,148,531 £2,459,540
Property and plant 395,104 461,727 508,025
Stocks .. .. 866,270 883,833 1,091,192
Book debts . . 589,039 721,211 776,647
Shares other cos. 4,800
Cash, etc. .. 72,105 81,760 83,676
£1,927,318 £2,148,531 £2,459,540
* Includes unspecified “provisions.”
The new capital, etc., went into stocks
(up £207,359), book-debts (up £55,436)
and the rebuilding and modernisation of
premises, etc. (up £46,298). Stocks appear
at or under cost, and book-debts, after
providing for doubtful debts, for which
£87,389 has been openly set aside since
1945.
Australian Stock Breeders Co.
the production side the outlook
for those on the ord. register of this
big beef-producer has been brightened
by (1) renewal of practically the whole
of the co.’s leases for 30 years from July
1, 1954, and (2) the board’s decision to
spend over £lOO,OOO on improving water-
ing facilities on the co.’s four runs, thus
increasing their carrying - capacity,
quickening maturity of the beasts and
reducing the risk of drought losses. The
runs are in the far-west and nor’-west of
Queensland, where the hot sun and
uncertain rainfall and isolation from
efficient transport produce a host of diffi-
culties, including the quantity and quality
of cattle turned-off for fattening in
coastal areas before marketing.
Still, it might be a while before share-
holders derive much in the way of
increased benefits. The additional water-
ing facilities will take time to develop,
and so will the increased number of
calves which can be expected to come
up for branding. And, since both classes
of the co.’s. scrip stand at a discount in
the market, it is apparently intended to


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
TERRITORY ENTERPRISES
Pty. Ltd.,
RUM JUNGLE, N.T.,
Invite Applications for Position of
SUB-ACCOUNTANT
(In Charge of Stores)
Applicant should have had experi-
ence of Stores Accounting and
Operation, and Purchasing. Desir-
able, but not essential, that appli-
cants should have had experience in
the Mining or Engineering Indus-
tries.
Salary commencing at £1350 p.a.
Liberal Provident Fund and Other
Benefits.
A furnished residence at a low
rental is available for Married Man,
or full board for Single Man.
Apply in writing with copies of
references to: — A
The Manager,
TERRITORY ENTERPRISES
PTY. LTD.,
Box 368, Darwin, N.T.
DAYIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
L
J
[\
S'
mm.
w
z
his future is
ASSURED!
It costs so little to assure your
child's life, and he can continue
the policy
himself
later on.
Protection
Babyhood to Retirement.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
INC.it O‘IANO teas
I
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING,
Cnr. Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney
COX BROS.
IN FIVE
STATES
ECONOMIC
STORES
PERTH
SNOWS
SYDNEY
FOY'S
MELBOURNE
COLAC
ADELAIDE
DEPARTMENTAL STORE RETAILERS OF CLOTHING, TEXTILES, FURNITURE
AND FOOD
COX BROTHERS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
(incorporated under the Companies Act 1915 of the State of Victoria on 24th January, 1928)
HEAD OFFICE: 75 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF £2,000,000
REGISTERED
MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
1
7<
o
2
CURRENCY .. 9-10 YEARS
ISSUE NOW OPEN
PROSPECTUS And application FORMS OBTAINABLE FROM:
MEMBERS OF ALL STOCK EXCHANGES
All Branches of
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
and
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITED
TRUSTEE FOR THE DEBENTURE STOCKHOLDERS
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
lAN POTTER & CO.
360 Collins Street, Melbourne 31 Hunter Street, Sydney
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY: This is not a Prospectus or an advertisement of a Prospectus and
does not constitute an invitation to the public to subscribe for the Debenture Stock mentioned herein.
finance the capital outlay in-
volved on loan funds. However,
should borrowed money earn
more than its keep, it will be
very helpful to the ords.
The experience of share-
holders to-date has been a sad
one, due to an unholy combina-
tion of seasons, prices and costs.
After 20 years in the wilderness
and loss of half their capital,
the ords. got back into the pic-
ture in 1948. They have since
had a run of moderate divs.
averaging 5.1 p.c. for the seven
years to November 30 last:
j Dividends -,To Re- Re-
Nov. .Profit.Pref.Ord. Total, serves.serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
’49..13,131 6.2 5.6 12,654 477 1,060
’50..16,791 7 7 16,149 642 1,702
’51..14,116 6.2 6 12,108 2,007 3,709
’52.. 9,299 6.2 4 11,016 1,992
’53..16,462 6.2 6 13,199 3,263 5,255
’54..23,555 6.2 6 13,199 10,356 15,611
The board is close-lipped about
sales, prices and the number of
cattle on runs, while the p. and
1. account tells little more than
it has to. Last term the season
was moderately good, demand
remained firm, and cattle prices
strengthened.
After allowing £4954 (up £23)
for depreciation and something
for taxation, etc., net earnings
were £7093 stronger at £23,555,
best since the tide turned seven
years ago. The £23,555 was
enough to pay the minimum pref.
div. (£6649) and show 15.5 p.c.
on the £109,165 of ord. capital
compared with 9.4, 1.5, 6.8, 8.4
and 5.9 p.c. back to 1949. The
div. was kept at 6 p.c., money
being wanted in the business.
The prop for capital at £15,611
is slender.
Finances are sound, and the
outside debt moderate:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital £216,414 £216,414 £216,414
Reserves .. 1,992 5,255 15,611
Overdraft .. 3,695
Creditors .. 82,574 31,061 42,532
Pinal divs... 11,016 13,199 13,199
£261,996 £269;624 £287,756
Freeholds and
leaseholds. 71,011 64,200 57,686
Livestock .. 124,449 182,304 192,107
Stores . . 14,495 14,301 21,394
Cash, debtors,
etc. .. 52,041 B,Bll' 16,569
£261,996 £269,624 £287,756
Livestock (up £9803), largest and
most vulnerable of the assets,
has been valued on the same
conservative basis as in 1953.
For the nine months to end
March last, Queensland cattle-
slaughterings were up about 14
p.c., but beef and veal exports
were down approximately 6 p.c.,
and, for the first four months of
1955, Brisbane livestock prices
were about 9 p.c. lower than for
the corresponding period of
1954. Also, Australian frozen
beef is selling in Smithfield (Eng.)
at less than the guaranteed mini-
mum under the 15-year meat
agreement with the U.K. At the
end of the season (September 30
next), the British Government
will make a deficiency payment
to the Australian Government
equal to the difference between
the average U.K. market price
and the guaranteed figure.
To ensure that Australian pro-
ducers will benefit from this pay-
ment, the Meat Board will pay
meat exporters Hd. per lb. on
chilled and frozen beef delivered
into store for export between
May 1 and July 1, 1955. Legis-
lation is to be brought down
covering the matter, and is to
include “a safeguard to ensure
that exporters do not retain the
benefit of the payment for them-
selves,” Commerce and Agricul-
tural Minister J. McEwen says.
The market prices the co.’s
f.-p. 10s. ords. at Bs. 6d. (same
as a year ago) to return 7 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The £1
prefs. &t 17s. 6d. yield 7.1 p.c.
—they are entitled to advance
with the ords. up to 8 p.c. Net
tangible cover is 435. 3d. prefs.
and 11s. sd. ords.
Gippsland Oil Hunt
Two oil-prospecting concerns
—internationally-owned Frome-
Lakes Pty. and Australian-
owned Woodside (Lakes
Entrance) Oil —are due to begin
initial test-drilling of their
respective areas in the Lakes
Entrance section of the Gipps-
land (Vic.) oil-basin within the
next few weeks.
Frome-Lakes (issued capital
£500,000 in £1 shares) and its
wholly-owned subsidiary
(Frome-Austral Pty.), hold oil-
prospecting rights covering 1400
square miles of the Gippsland
coastal belt, mostly north of
Woodside. The co. is controlled
(52 p.c.), and also managed, by
Frome-Broken Hill Co. Pty.,
which was formed in 1947 by
Consolidated Zinc Corp.
(through its subsidiary Consoli-
dated Zinc Pty.), D’Arcy
Exploration and Vacuum Oil.
Also two local cos., Lakes Oil
and Austral Oil Drilling, were
allotted 200,000 and 40,000 f.-p.
£1 shares respectively in Frome-
Lakes for rights transferred.
Recently Interstate Oil, Ltd.,
was formed in Melbourne to
give the public and those on
Consolidated Zinc’s register a
more direct interest in the hunt
for oil in Australia by the
Frome-Broken Hill Co., which
is also interested in large areas
not yet thoroughly examined in
the Mt. Gambier Sunklands
basin (S. Aust. and Vic.) and on
the east side of the Gulf of
Carpentaria.
The Woodside (Lakes
Entrance) Co., which has an
issued and paid capital of
£500,000 in f.-p. ss. shares, holds
oil-prospecting rights covering
some 200 square miles of the
South Gippsland basin, adjacent
to the Frome-Lakes Co.
The Interstate co.’s ss. shares,
paid to Is. each, recently fetched
Bs. 2d. in the market —strong
support from London buyers,
who were prepared to back the
sponsoring cos. they know so
well, forced the price up. Lakes
Oil’s f.-p. £1 shares, which sold
as high as £5 each in May last,
recently fetched 525. 6d. Wood-
side’s f.-p. ss. shares have had a
fairly steady market round
ss. 6d.
In the past a number of fairly
shallow holes have been drilled
in the Lakes Entrance area, and
small quantities of oil have been
found. Hopes are that the
present wider and better-
directed exploration, more
scientifically located sites and
deeper drilling will produce
results which earlier work,
largely handicapped for both
technical and financial reasons,
failed to achieve.
Although Broken Hill South’s
production figures for the year
to June 30 last are slightly lower,
the effect upon profit should be
much more than offset by
higher lead and zinc prices. For
the year to June 30, 1954, the co.
netted £1,319,309 (164.9 p.c. on
capital), and paid an interim 3s.
and final 3s. 6d., or 130 p.c.
for the year. An interim 3s. 6d.
per share was sent out on June 24
last and the market expects a
final 45., which would make
7s. 6d. (150 p.c.) for the year.
The price of the scrip rose from
a low of 545. in 1954 to a peak
of 745. 9d. in 1955 and then
eased to 68s.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO REGINALD HERRINGE late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that ALICE HERRINGE has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1155 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court House King Street Sydney by the
9th day of September 1955 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from T. L. BLATCH-
FORD, Solicitor, 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J-
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JUSTINE FRANK WILMONT late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that LAURA GLADYS WILMONT
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1933 of 1955
on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court House King Street Sydney by
the 28th day of September 1955 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from T. L. BLATCH-
FORD, Solicitor, 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO LEO JAMES O’MEARA late of 8 Burfett Street
Leichhardt.—TAKE NOTICE that GRACE O’MEARA
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 881 of 1955
on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 28th day of September 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from MESSRS.
GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, of
18-20 Martin Place, Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The Society of Arts and Crafts has a
particularly interesting exhibition at the
Education Department’s Gallery this week
with a large and colorful loan-exhibit
of patchwork-quilts (called “piece quilts”)
from members of the American Women’s
Society, including one which is over 100
years old lent by Mrs. Elwood Haas.
Mrs. E. M. Oates has lent a diploma
needlework-collection including petit-
point, Jacobean wool-embroidery and
some exquisite drawn work.
Perhaps the most uncommon exhibit is
the needlework “Family Tree” by
Margaret Qppen (who, of course, is artist
Margaret Arnott, recently returned from
abroad). This shows the family of John
Briggs and Mary Anne Thwaite, and
includes the ship which brought them to
Australia and the family home at
Wahroonga.
There is a splendid entry of woven
pieces with some outsanding work by
Jessica Booth, whose set of dinner-mats
is competing for- the Soderberg prize.
There is beautiful lace-work from Mrs.
Frances Johnson, honiton from Mrs.
P. F. Thompson and a loan-exhibit by
Miss E. M. Richmond (just back from
studying lacework abroad) of bobbins,
prickings and pillow-lace. Mrs. Helen
Stening shows a sampler of embroidery-
stitches, each with an aboriginal motif,
Myrtle Innes some interesting pulled-
wool rugs, and Alexander Nagy some
striking pottery-designs in the modern
manner. A novel idea is introduced by
Miss Margery Denne’s pots for indoor-
plants, each in colors and decoration
appropriate to the plants to be grown.
Altogether, it is a most attractive exhi-
bition, and should not be missed by those
interested in arts and crafts. It will
remain open till July 20, with demon-
strations of craftwork each afternoon
and Friday evening.
☆ / i? ☆
People haven’t stopped talking about
the American Ball since July 4, when it
was held at the Troc. —how its decora-
tions, “quite fabulous!” took the com-
mittee two solid days to prepare; of the
canopy of paper ribbon-streamers, red-
white-and-blue in the hall, very impressive
to see but making it hard to hear the
music properly; of the wonderfully
friendly informality of the night, and how
one and all were welcome to take a piece
of the huge map-of-America cake; of
the striking royal-blue and silvered-ivy
decoration of the official-table; of the
toasting popcorn and the entry-cards
like passports and the American number-
plates screwed to the ends of the tables;
and of being helped from one’s car by
Uncle Sam himself (impersonated for the
night by Trocadero doorman Alfred
Austin); and most of all of the thrilling
moment when, the lights having been put
out, 1400 people sang “The Star-spangled
Banner,” each one holding aloft a glit-
tering sparkler so that the Trocadero
looked like a sea starred with a thousand
lights.
☆ ☆ ☆
Madame Yvonne Marotta, who leaves
for Europe in the Orontes this week, was
entertained at a farewell-luncheon by
Mrs. M. Fountain and Mr. Noel Pelly
at the Pickwick last Wednesday. Among
those wishing her bon voyage were Mr.
and Mrs. Bruce McLeod, Madame Dora
Scott and Mrs. M. A. Aldritt. Madame
Marotta intends to spend five months
abroad, mainly in Italy, where she will
study the latest trends in opera-presenta-
tion and will renew her friendship with
singers and musicians with whom she
worked during her former sojourn in
that country. She will also visit England
and will return to Australia about
Christmas.
* ☆ ☆
The Independent Theatre has intro-
duced a new feature to its opening nights:
a supper-party after the show (price ss.
a head, it is just as well to mention;
proceeds towards a much-needed curtain).
The party provides a good opportunity
to discuss the play, and surely none could
be more discussable” than the current
iving Room, by Graham Greene, a
play of considerable contemporary in-
terest, with the rather sombre moral that
fl you shut off bits of your mind and
heart each time sorrow assails them, then
eventually you are left with a narrow,
disfurbished space to live in and have
nothing to offer those who call on you
lor help. The piece is on for only four
weeks, as the rights are very expensive.
Mrs. Arthur Davis, president of the
Garden Club, told members at their meet-
ing during the week that modern flower-
arrangements in Japan were most notable
for their artificiality, making use, as they
do, of copper-wire, motor-car tyres, beds
of nails, seaweeds, lacquered grasses,
asparagus-fern painted black, polished
tree-stumps, etc. If this trend spreads to
Australia, which it is quite likely to do,
perhaps we will see people gathering
bunches of barb-wire instead of daffodils,
carefully selecting old kerosene-tins
(“What a rich shade of rust! ”) instead of
roses, allowing garden- and wild-floWers
to be picked quite freely, and forbidding
the public to clear-up rubbish-dumps,
under penalty of heavy fines. Antique
and derelict cars will be treasured, and
the old copper which the new washing-
machine has displaced may be set in the
garden in place of the oleander. A
charming prospect!
Recently back from abroad, Joan
Assheton, daughter of the late Lieut.-
Colonel C. F. Assheton and Mrs. A. A.
Assheton, of North Sydney, has become
engaged to Englishman David Peacock,
whom she met while on a skiing holiday
in Austria. Joan will leave with her
mother in January for England, where the
marriage will take place in June. Photo by
Norton Trevaire.
Over £lOOO was raised by the Red
Cross Ball Committee for 1955, and a
cheque was presented by the president,
Mrs. A. L. Walters, to Mr. J. F. Clack,
representing Red Cross, at a meeting
during the week. This was a splendid
effort, as the ball and its forerunner, the
preview of “Carrington, V.C.,” were held
at a time when most people were dipping
into their pockets for flood-relief, so it
does indicate that Sydney people are
generous and co-operative in many ways.
At the meeting Mrs. Alex Morgan paid
a tribute on behalf of the committee to
the presidency of Mrs. Walters, saying
how happy they had been to work for her
and how grateful they were for her
leadership.
☆ ☆ ☆
American soprano Mattiwilda Dobbs
was guest-of-honor at a reception by
members of the Symphony Orchestra
Subscribers’ Committee during the week,
when she and her sister, Mrs. June Butts,
were welcomed by Mrs. Arnold Hirst,
Mrs. A. H. Chartres and Mr. R. J. F.
Boyer. Miss Dobbs, whose unusual
Christian-name is a combination of the
names of her two grandmothers, made
history by being the first negro singer
to appear at La Scala, Milan. Still under
30, she has conquered the great opera-
houses of Europe, as well as England’s
Glyndebourne and Covent Garden, in
roles usually taken by Europeans. Slim
and youthful-looking, she has an
unassuming manner and a natural humor.
☆ ☆ ☆
Now that there is so much publicity
about all those hoses that are burrowing
into the ground in the U.S. and Western
Australia, perhaps it is safe to mention
the even more sinister happenings regard-
ing the disappearing hose next-door. It
was left curled up on the lawn at night
and in the morning it had completely
vanished —unscrewed itself from the tap
and all! Sometimes one feels that it is
not wise to inquire into such uncanny
happenings, doesn’t one?
MELBOURNE
A framed replica of the Declaration of
Independence and portraits of Washing-
ton and President Eisenhower were
prominent in the South Yarra home of
U.S. Consul-General Gerald Warner and
Mrs. Warner when they gave two recep-
tions in honor of America’s National
Day.
Mr. Warner asked his guests to drink
two toasts: the first to Queen Elizabeth,
the second to President Eisenhower. Mrs.
Warner received her guests wearing a
sapphire-blue crepe-romaine frock in
which was pinned a spray of mauve
orchids. She was assisted by her three
daughters, Betty, Anne and Debby. ,•
At the reception were present the heads
of the three services; also Lieut. -
Governor Sir Edmund Herring and Lady
Herring, French Consul M. Le Bas pe
Plumetot and his wife, Colonel and Mrs.
R. W. Spraggett, Burmese Militaify-
Attachd Major Aye Ngwei and his wife
(she wearing her national costume), the
Marquis Georgis Serafino, Dutch Consul
G. J. A. Veling and U.K. Trade Commis-
sioner A. Starck and Mrs. Starck.
Mrs. Henry Bolte, wife of the Premier,
wore a short, full frock of ruby-red velvet.
Mrs. Rylah, wife of the State Attorney-
General, wore the uniform of a Garl
Guide Commissioner. Visiting American
Mrs. Clement Johnson looked smart In
a black suit highlighted with lapels of
while sharkskin and a small black velvet
hat. Mrs. Peter Gibbs’s velvets were
scarlet; Mrs. Donald Ferguson chose, a
frock of black faille and a small black
velvet hat. Mrs. John Williams allied a
black - and - gold - embroidered bouffant
skirt with a black wool sweater; her
small cap was of black velvet. Notable
were Mrs. Wesley Ince’s calot of black
velvet edged with natural mink, and Mrs.
J. Wiedenmyer’s black velvet Mary
Queen of Scots bonnet edged with pearls.
☆ ☆ ☆
Abandoning cocktails for coffee, mem-
bers of the English Speaking Union
Younger Group celebrated U.S. Inde-
pendence Day at their clubrooms; presi-
dent Guy Lloyds receiving the guests
assisted by secretary Pam Middleton (her
unusual white velvet frock was patterned
in black leopard-spots and contrasted
with a red velvet stole). Mrs. William
Banks’s frock of magnolia velvet had
the collar trimmed with clusters of gold
sequins; Mrs. Malcolm Smart chose
bouffant black taffeta, and Mrs. B. Barnes
a full black skirt and a diamente-trimmed
tangerine-wool sweater.
Sponsored by the Confectionery Manu-
facturers in the Prince Henry’s Hospital
Loveliest Mother Quest, Mrs. Shirley
Cody has two young sons. Educated at
St. Margaret’s, Berwick, Shirley trained
at Royal Melbourne, but gave up her
nursing career on marriage. Photo by
John Warlow.
Guests came from places as far apart
as New York, Israel, New Zealand and
Sydney to attend the wedding of Aviva,
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Michael
Sanders, of Brighton, and Leon, elder son
of Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Korman, of
Queen’s-road, Melbourne, at the Toorak-
road Synagogue. The bride wore a skirt
of white chiffon and a fitted bodice of
white satin. The short tulle veil was
caught to her hair with sprays of crystal
flowers, and she carried a bouquet of
white orchids.
Mrs. Brian Marks, the matron-of-honor,
wore a short frock of white velvet and
carried pink orchids. Bridesmaids Mariene
Dabcheck and Denise Harlem had satin
flowers trimming the backs of their short
frocks of white Duchesse-satin. Two little
girls, Helen Korman (cousin of the
bridegroom) and Jacqueline Binder
(Sydney), were also in the bridal party,
both in long frocks of white organza tied
with sashes of white satin, and carrying
pink and white posies. Page-boys Michael
Coppel and Irving Korman were dressed
in white velvet suits. The ’groom’s
brother David flew home from America
to be his brother’s best man, and John
Newton and Brian Marks were grooms-
men.
Two-hundred guests attended the recep-
tion in St. Kilda Town Hall. Mrs.
Sanders received them in a gown of pea-
cock-green lace trimmed with matching
satin, with beads trimming the bodice. Her
tiny pink velvet calot matched her gloves
and orchids. Mrs. Korman’s frock of
pervenche-blue guipure lace was made on
sheath-lines highlighted with a deep hem
of matching tulle. Her tiny hat was of
velvet in the same shade and finished with
streamer-ends. She also wore pink
orchids.
Among the guests were Mrs. Stanley
Davis (wearing cyclamen French taffeta
and mink cape-stole), Mr. and Mrs. David
Harlem, Mr. and Mrs. John Carrodus (she
matching satin shoes with a royal-blue
bouffant frock of pleated silk-organza),
Mr. Don Campbell, Q.C., and Mrs. Camp-
bell, Brigadier Bernard Evans and Mrs.
Evans, and Mr. and Mrs. Gray Staley.
☆ ☆ ☆
Decorations at the Black and White
dinner-dance for Opportunity Clubs’ funds
followed the two-color theme. Life-size
figures of black-painted twigs carried
replicas of girls draped in white net and
wearing black-and-white lame masks.
Their male escorts, also of twigs, wore
bowler-hats and bow-ties of camellias.
Ivy painted black and white twined
around the pillars, and hanging from
light-brackets were large black masks
trimmed with pearl-drops. On every table
was a “pot-plant,” the “earth” being
after-dinner mints, the “plant” sprouting
black olives, prunes and raisins. In
several were large “birds’-nests” filled with
caviare and stuffed-eggs.
Gowns worn were either black or white.
Mrs. Leo Curtis, president of the com-
mittee, wore a mask formed by two little
white mink-heads picked out in rhine-
stones with her white French-lace gown,
which had a jewelled strapless bodice.
Mrs. Harold Holt’s lovely frock was of
white Brussels-lace, embroidered in
opalescent cabochons. The skirt featured
a “peacock” hemline, short in front and
almost touching the floor at the back. A
sheath of white guipure lace was worn
by Mrs. Bill Gluth. Mrs. Graham
Nathan’s gown was of filmy tulle. A
short, strapless, white-lace frock was worn
by Mrs. Iris Clarke. Mrs. Hamilton
Sleigh’s swirling gown of scarlet taffeta
was worn with a matching stole lined
with ice-blue satin. Mrs. R. E. F. Smith
was responsible for the decorations.
☆ ☆ ☆
Eight-hundred attended the Palais de
Danse, St. Kilda, for the annual Sacre
Cceur Ball. Tall silver candelabra and
garlands of red carnations and leaves
were arranged on the official table. A
special table for the 19 debutantes was
decorated with pink rosebuds and white
satin ribbons. Hawthorn branches,
tipped with oranges and cumquats, made
a hedge in front of the bandstand. The
debutantes, wearing individual white
gowns, were presented to Mrs. Robert
Guthrie, president of the S.G. Old Girls’
Association, and Mr. Guthrie. Proceeds
of the ball will go to the Janet Stuart
bursary. Official guests included repre-
sentatives of the past-student associations
of Genazzano, Loreto, Xavier, Newman
College and Assumption College, Kilmore.


Can you tell a "big"
MS
M y* 9” \
£f
//
BELtS
fcoich Wl
>OO% SCOTCH WHISKIEJ
OISTIUEO AND BLENDE
D| STILLER S «»t«SCOp
established
p «ooucr of scv— i((
"■* ssttstt?.;'?; n""’
■M
Scotch from a
6 small’ Scotch?
We don’t mean the differ-
ence between a double and
a single. We mean the dif-
ference between the ordin-
ary run of whiskies—and a
masterpiece such as
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
We of Bell’s are independ-
ent distillers. The output
is not huge, but to those
who know it, it is very,
very precious. Try Bell’s
Old Scotch Whisky—and
you will acknowledge its
magic mastery.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell&Sons Ltd.,Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO OLGA PICKEN formerly of No. 4
Blacktown Road Prospect and also of 65
Lords Place Orange.—TAKE NOTICE that
ROSS PICKEN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 216 of 1954 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 9th day of September 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. A. J. McLACH-
LAN, HOARE & CO., Solicitors, 6 Wyn-
yard Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar. >
TO WILLIAM DUNCAN HOWIE BROWN
formerly of 164 Epsom Avenue Belmont
Western Australia. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife VERONICA JEAN BROWN
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the ground of deser-
tion for a continuous period of three
years or more If you desire to defend
such proceedings you must file your
defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court Perth within Forty clear
days from the date of this publication
In default of your so doing the case may
proceed and the Court may pronounce
judgment and make orders against you
in your absence. DATED this 22nd
day of June, 1955. —G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar.
SHEILA McCLEMANS, of 98 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
Missing Friends
WOULD WARREN BENJAMIN
RICHARDS, late of Epping, New South
Wales, and Sunshine, Victoria, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with MESSRS. JONES &
-KENNEDY, Solicitors, of 213 Nicholson
Street, Footscray.
tint tun
mm
lamKt
mm
I is *
m
ISP
FREE!
A fine book you would
buy in the shops
for little short of £|
WHICH TYPE OF BOOK DO YOU
WANT SENT TO YOU FREE?
ROMANCE—by such authors as Ruby M. Ayres, Maysie Greig,
Emmeline Morrison, Netta Muskett.
DETECTIVE—by such authors as Ellery Queen, James Hadley
Chase, Erie Stanley Gardner, Peter Cheyney.
WESTERN—by such authors as Max Brand, Luke Short, Zane
Grey, Charles H. Snow.
LITERARY—by such authors as Somerset Maugham, Frances
Parkinson Keyes, Nicholas Monsarrat.
YOU—As a Member of This Personalised Club—MAY
• Change unsatisfactory books . . .
• Vary your types of books . . .
• Have a say in what books will be future issues.
FULLER DETAILS WITH YOUR FREE BOOK
All books are the ACTUAL SHOP EDITIONS THAT
COST SO VERY MUCH MORE OVER THE COUNTER!
Send now with no money to the
COLE TURNLEY
PERSONALISED BOOK CLUB,
Box 1121 J, G.P.0., Melbourne.
For booklovers who want a beautiful yet inexpensive Home Library
of books that really hold the interest right through—a book a month.
THE MOST A BOOK EVER COSTS IS ONLY 8/9
AND YEARLY MEMBERS GET 3 MORE FREE BOOKS
Spread over the year; 4 free books in ail.
YOU’LL BE ENJOYING YOUR FIRST FREE BOOK BY RETURN MAIL!
Full club details come with it. (We would appreciate 9d. postage.)
Encircle type preferred:
ROMANCE, DETECTIVE, WESTERN, LITERARY
Mr./Mrs./Miss IMPORTANT
• If you join you
never pay for book.
Address If you don’t join—
you can keep book
State by paying Club
Price, 8/9. Or just
(BLOCK LETTERS please. Order by letter return book and be
if preferred.) 160 under no obligation.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Susskind and Horsley
Walter Susskind gave one of
his high-pressure performances
at the latest Brisbane subscrip-
tion-concert, energetically con-
ducting every note as though his
life depended on it. Some con-
ductors get tremendous effects
from an orchestra with the
simplest and apparently ineffec-
tive gestures, Otto Klemperer
being the best representative of
that school wd 5 have seen. But
it must be admitted that Suss-
kind’s miming of his music can
be entertaining in its own right
and at times helps an audience
to follow the most elusive lines
of new works.
To this reviewer Tschai-
kowsky’s “Romeo and Juliet”
sounded as remote as ever from
Shakspeare’s youthful drama.
However did Tschaikowsky
imagine the squabble between
Montagues and Capulets as
being on the same scale as the
Battle of Agincourt, or that
Romeo and Juliet were as
warmly passionate as, say,
Antony and Cleopatra? The
orchestra played very well in-
deed, whatever the music was
supposed to represent.
That very reserved pianist
Colin Horsley seemed tempera-
mentally worlds apart from
•Susskind, but they combined in
a clean and lovely performance
of Beethoven’s Fourth Concerto,
one of the privileged half-dozen
concertos permitted annual per-
formances hereabouts. This is
one on which the cobwebs never
collect, and Horsley’s playing of
it added to the fine impression
he left after his last visit.
Susskind took an up-to-date
view of Vaughan Williams’s
“London Symphony.” The entry
of the full orchestra in the first
movement was quite startling, as
though one had burst upon
London in a jet-fighter instead
of by way of Westminster
Bridge. This gave an exciting
impression of the great city,
even though it blew away some
of the drifting mists that hang
over Vaughan Williams’s music.
The cockney tunes of the outer
movements 'had just the right
degree of cheekiness, and the
slow movement found the
orchestra highly responsive to
its nostalgia. Finally, the musi-
cal picture* of London sank
away into; the fog of the
epilogue, to the accompaniment
of the Westminster chimes, one
of which needed a little tuning.
D. J. M.
+> ♦>
“Lucia di Lammermoor”
When Caruso made his first
appearance as Edgardo at the
Metropolitan in New York, it
is recorded that, as he was sing-
ing in the famous sextet, a police-
man in the lobby, thinking a
riot had broken forth, un-
sheathed his baton and burst
into the auditorium, only to find
the audience frantically
applauding.
Something, of the sort could
have occurred at the one and
only performance of “Lucia”
given at Her Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, at the end of the opera
season. Roll on roll of applause
followed the singing of the sex-
tet, and conductor Ziino had no
option but to grant an encore.
The musical traffic was similarly
delayed when Clara Scarangella
went beautifully mad after slay-
ing her husband, this in spite of
a somewhat dry tone that came
into her upper register but van-
ished when flute and voice be-
came one sound.
Danilo Vega stabbed himself
as beautifully as his mistress
went beautifully mad, and the
gloomiest tragedy in opera ended
in an atmosphere of excitement
which could only be compared
to a football final.
* ❖ ❖
Monique Haas
The concert with which
Monique Haas concluded her
Sydney season gave her ample
opportunity to display her im-
peccable technique, lucid, pre-
cise style and astonishing clarity
at high speed.
Ravel’s “Gaspard de la Nuit,”
stark and, in the “Scarbo” sec-
tion, horrific, was all ice and hard
edges—poor fare for a mid-
winter night. There was also a
spot of Bartok, some Rameau
and —the only worth-while offer-
ing of the night—Schumann’s
lovely “Fantasiestlicke,” given
the warmest and most poetic
treatment.
■!*» ifc
Ustinov’s Colonels Again
Peter Ustinov’s “The Love of
Four Colonels” seems to be the
play of the year — so far. The
Bulletin has already reviewed
Melbourne, Sydney and Can-
berra performances. Now Bris-
bane Repertory has so excelled
itself as to warrant another men-
tion for the piece.
Ustinov’s weird mixture of
fantasy, muddled philosophy and
wit is a challenge that offers
delight and frustration to the
producer. B a b e 11 e Stephens
missed few tricks in the three
hours or so of intricate juggling
of characters and scenes, and
most of her cast seemed more at
ease in their uniforms and fancy-
costumes than most of them do
in ordinary productions.
The four colonels are rather
crudely drawn, each man being
a walking compendium of the
characteristics usually attributed
to Englishmen, Frenchmen,
Americans and Russians by their
less amiable rivals. The very
“hamminess” of this is amusing,
just the same, and, anyway, the
first act is only an awkward
excuse for the wonderful little
parodies of the second and third.
Here the men are introduced
by a “wicked fairy” (in this
performance a coy devil played
by Franklyn Evans) to the
Sleeping Beauty. She wakes, and,
as one might imagine after see-
ing the Borovansky Company,
turns out to be a most capable
actress. The colonels see in her
their ideal woman, and, in turn,
each is given a chance to woo
her in the manner of one of his
nation’s dramatists. Shakspeare,
Chekhov, Marivaux and Saroyan
are mercilessly twisted on the
parodist’s skewer.
Betty Ross exhibited the vary-
ing qualities of English, French,
American and Russian woman-
hood with complete efficiency,
keeping a straight face and
tongue-in-cheek all through the
most idiotic situations. The four
colonels managed their double
roles competently and amusingly,
John Barker as the Englishman
getting most laughs for his love-
lorn loon in the parody of
Shakspeare. John Miller,
Geoffrey Baker and Kenneth
Marshment were not far behind
in laughs, and they managed to
keep their accents from slipping
as the play developed. In all,
one of Repertory’s best things
for a long time.
D. J. M.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Living Room”
Few writers offer such enter-
taining misery as Mr. Graham
Greene, and the Independent, at
North Sydney, does him proud
with an expert production of
his first play, “The Living
Room.” Mr. Greene is for ever
hounded by problems of good
and evil, but usually manages
to find a commercial heart in
these matters —you can’t discuss
sin without somebody com-
mitting one to discuss, and sin
is an ancient drawcard. So Mr.
Greene kicks-off his play with a
steaming scandal.
A married man of 45 brings a
novel air of morality to his
seduction of a girl of 20 by
scenting his exploit with essence
of Freud. James Pratt here does
extremely well, and roars
through the play in a fury of
righteous adultery.
Rose, the youngster, also has
very up-to-date ideas, to which
she gives dramatic force by put-
ting them into practice right
undbr the sober noses of a
couple of elderly aunts —one
sweetly vague, the other a quasi-
religious bullfrog, redoubtably
played by Myra Leard.'
Though Mr. Greene smothers
Rose with intellectual driven
snow, this reviewer still won’t
believe in a juvenile delinquent,
even a highbrow one, who sud-
denly develops a six-cylinder
conscience. Still, if meta-
morphosis is an awkward word,
it’s even harder to portray it
with conviction; Hilary Bam-
berger made a fine job of the
role.
Weighty arguments are hung
like drapes found Victorian
statuary. However, the argument
Church v. Freud is futile, for the
sides don’t speak the same
language. It is like a Choctaw
Indian and an ancient Greek
trying to earbash each other.
Indeed it is worse —there is the
added semantic befuddlement of
both sides using the same words
in different senses.
Still, where there are meta-
physical powwows a la Shaw
the author has prudently pruned
them, for he is too shrewd to
scare away his audience. Most
people will like the play even
if, in some cases, for the wrong
reason.
❖ * ❖
“Tartuffe”
With Moliere’s “Tartuffe,”
Sydney University’s Department
of French offered a night’s
classical high-jinks. The old
piece about the oleaginous
cuckoo who nearly dispossesses
everybody in the family-nest
suggests 17th-century Frenchmen
to have been less shrewd in
money-matters than those of
today.
Angus Martin played Tartuffe
with lashins of sophisticated
ham, cleverly symbolising his
black heart with a fine head of
coal-black knitting-wool hair.
Susanne Buschel was a pert
Mariane, French enough to be
suspect as a ring-in.
Talkies
“The End of the Affair” (Syd-
ney State): Story banal, dialogue
trite and studded with cliches,
characters unconvincing, direc-
tion dull, film moves at
tortoise-pace and everyone hams
with the intensity of old-time
melodrama. Otherwise there’s
nothing wrong with it it’s all
about a wife who distributes her
amours übiquitously, then gets
religion and pines away. In it
are Van Johnson, Deborah Kerr
and —badly miscast as a private
eye—John Mills.
*5
“A Man Called Peter” (Syd-
ney Century): Hollywood made
a good selection for the role
of Dr. Peter Marshall, the
Scottish immigrant who, within
10 years, became one of the most
celebrated preachers in the U.S.
and was appointed chaplain to
to the U.S. Senate shortly before
his early death. Richard Todd
brings to his vivid portrayal a
clear, ringing voice with just the
right Scots burr, and delivers his
sermons —they are rattling good
ones, too —with fire and con-
viction. He also gives the
character a warmly human
quality and makes it the best
portrayal of a man-of-the-cloth
seen on the screen for many a
year. Jean Peters, as the wife,
acts with restraint and discretion.


VISMORS' NIGHT
by John
Fountain
WE were sitting by the
fire in the darkened
front-bar of the Royal.
Peggy, with her green
eyes, fine bone-structure and
rather pale face framed in
brown hair, \yas pretty, and
neat in a brown tweed suit, but
her friend Dawn was a golden
girl. Tall, and fair, with full,
rich lips and long, firm limbs
and a sunlit glance between long
lashes, a sort of shock of vitality,
a contrast to her languid pose
and the soft dragging of her
words.
A girl, in fact, to set
Toomalong’s four eligible
bachelors by the ears. I thought
Peggy mad to import her.
Yellow, polo-necked jumper,
plaid skirt, nipped-in waist: a
golden skin, and a golden
opulence . . .
“Where did you get tfyat
color this time of year?” Tom
wanted to know. Tom is dark,
compact, exact; meeting-eye-
brows over serious brown eyes.
Nylon flashed as Dawn
opened her hazel eyes, exposed
her strong, white teeth, and
shifted on her magnificent
bottom, crossing legs which,
even under the woollen thick-
ness of the green-and-yellow
skirt, promised a certain nobility
of matter —a weight, so to speak,
of excellence.
“Oh, Noumea. Lying round,
you know, on the beaches. I’m
not long back.”
Tom, the spearfisherman, was
deeply interested. He asked all
sorts of questions, but her
answers were vague, offhand.
Lots of fish, she believed, but
for that sort of thing, really, she
“couldn’t care less.”
Tom looked a bit dis-
appointed, hurt. But then she
smiled at him again, and
presently he was talking with
animation. When Dawn smiled
her lower teeth seemed to catch
the upper ones and hold them ;
a posed smile.
Flames sprang from the
diminishing giant of a backlog,
sank and flickered, lighting up
the big, raddled fireplace, the
chestnut gelding on the wall,
flushing Dawn’s blonde mane
and Tom’s fascinated smile.
Peggy’s eyes glowed catlike from
the shadows of the big, old
leather-armchair.
Tom and I had arrived in
Toomalong that afternoon —we
still wore our city-clothes. We
had met the girls, almost
accidentally, outside Bert Papa-
doulous’s cafe.
Peggy was a good hostess,
entertaining her guest to the
best of her ability. Dawn had
been staying with her a week.
Well, I tried to be a good host.
I introduced Tom, was intro-
duced to Dawn. They were
going for a stroll, Peggy said.
Where? —Oh, down to look at
the old mine, maybe, or up to
the Rec. We strolled into the
Royal.
“I’ll get some more beer,” I
said.
Over by the pool of light
from behind the counter I said
“Hullo” to Bruce McDonald
and Jack Halliday, who had just
come in. I juggled the four
glasses on to the counter and
shook hands. Jack is tall,
stoutish, noncommittal. Years
ago he was a State fast-bowler.
“Better have a beer,” Bruce
said, and nodded to Roy, the
barman.
“I’ve got friends ...” I began,
but Roy was already filling a
fresh glass.
Bruce looked interested.
“Who’s with you?” He peered.
“Peggy. That girl’s staying with
her, isn’t she?”
“Yes. Girl from Sydney.
Dawn Curtin.”
Jack nodded. “Ah, Dawn
Curtin.” He nodded again.
This was a trick of his, and
meant nothing. But the effect
was of deep knowledge,
exclusive information.
“A friend of Peggy’s,” I said.
Jack nodded. “Ah, yes,
Peggy.”
Bruce stared thoughtfully at
the group by the fire. He was
the most eligible of the famous
four —young, rich and not at all
bad-looking. Down in Sydney
a lady had described him as a
“blond god.” He caught
Peggy’s eye and smiled and
waved. Peggy waved, and
turned away. He wasn’t a
blond god to Peggy—not at the
moment, anyway. They had
pulled each other’s hair as
children, romped as adolescents.
That rakish air and sardonic
smile which so intrigued the
girls in Sydney meant nothing to
Peggy. Although, no doubt, if
no stranger were in town she
would not disdain Bruce’s
company.
All of which Bruce under-
stood perfectly: “Pretty girl,
that,” he said, and shrugged.
“Ah, yes,” said Jack, and
nodded. “Pretty girl, Peggy.”
He held up three fingers to Roy.
“Peggy?” Bruce looked
puzzled. “Yes, of course. I
meant the other girl.”
I changed the subject: “Been
travelling, I hear.” Jack nodded.
Roy delivered our beer and
Jack put his hand in his pocket.
“My turn,” I said hastily, and
paid. “I’ll have to be getting
back. No, I’ll take these over
and come back.” Bruce stirred.
“I’ll be back in a tick,” I said
hastily. Tom was bad enough ;
I didn’t want to encourage
Bruce.
When I came back I forestalled
the suggestion I could sense
rising to Bruce’s lips. “Been
away, eh?” I said to Jack.
“I’ve been thinking ...” Bruce
said.
“Yes. Took the wife to Eng-
land. Went through Europe.”
“Why don’t we all. . .” Bruce
persisted.
“Interesting, eh?” I inter-
rupted. “France —Germany. Did
you go to Switzerland?”
“Ah! Switzerland. Yes. We
went to Switzerland.”
“Got used to drinking sitting-
down in England, I suppose,
Jack?”
Bruce said cunningly. “Now
what we should do . .
“Italy?”
“Italy. Spain.” Jack tilted his
glass. “Right through.”
“This industrial revival in Ger-
many, Jack, now what do you
make of that?” I asked earnestly.
Jack smiled. His grey eyes
were amused, under the shadow
of the forward-tilted hat. “We’ll
have another beer,” he said
firmly. That’s the unexpected
quality of the man —a real wis-
dom under the ah’s and head-
noddings. He turned to Bruce.
“You stay here. Can’t you see
when you’re not wanted?” Bruce
grinned and drank his beer.
X>ACK by the fire the glasses
" were empty again ; this time
Tom went to refill them.
While he was away Peggy
questioned me. I told her all I
knew, which wasiv’t much. We
worked in the same office, but
it was a big office. I had invited
him up, on the spur of the
moment, one Friday afternoon
when we were drinking at the
corner pub. Hemmed in by the
crowd, I shouted nostalgic senti-
ments into his ear: Toomalong,
a little place lost in the hills,
no crowds. “Me, too,” Tom
shouted back, “sick of crowds —
noise—traffic.” Lovely this time
of year, I roared, ‘hills green,
log-fires, leisurely drinking.
“Do me,” Tom assured me.
“Somewhere quiet.”
All this, with the information
that Tom was unmarried,
emerged. Not question - and -
answer exactly; but a cross-
examination all the same.
Tom came back with the beers
and Dawn came to life again.
Peggy gave them a sidelong
glance. Eligibles were one species
—Dawn could have them —
strangers were another: espe-
cially a sponsored stranger, who
could be introduced to parents
as “a friend of Joe’s.” Life
could be dull for girls in Toom-
along but for the occasional
stranger.
Dawn was decorative, cer-
tainly ; but now, sitting back
listening to her, I began to find
fault. She was, perhaps, too
leggy; her long-lashed eyes
opened wide at some rather weak
joke of Tom’s —I wondered why
I had brought him —and her
laughing mouth was sulky in
repose. She was charming to
a point of idiocy when she
wanted to be, but her wants were
limited. What did she see in
Tom?
She was a spoilt girl. Daddy
was always giving her things.
Peggy endorsed this vigorously,
wistfully: “Lovely things.”
The girls talked clothes. “And
you know what, honey?” Dawn’s
eyes widened in charming, naive
surprise (why are people so good
to me?). “Guess what he gave
me for my birthday?”
Peggy guessed: A watch? An
evening-dress?
Smiling, Dawn shook her head.
“A block of flats!”
A block of flats! I wandered
off to buy another round.
The group by the bar-counter
thinned and dispersed. Some
went home and others moved
round to the small parlor, or
into the big lounge, both lighted
and with fires. Roy always
switched-off the light in the
front bar after six-o’clock as a
concession to the licensing laws.
This was before 10-o’clock
closing became legal in N.S.W.,
of course. Not so very long
before. And nothing has
changed, fundamentally, at
Toomalong since then. The hills
are still green at that time of the
year, the wind still whips the
brown willows, the cows still
parade through the street at
night. Young men and women
still behave according to an
ancient pattern, which the old
sometimes condemn. Doubtless
the pubs close at about the same
hour as before.
Dawn was giving Tom her
impressions of the place:
“Quaint! And everyone drinks
with everyone else!”
But Tom wasn’t interested in
Toomalong: “Ever go sailing?”
“Sailing! Yes, with the Pen-
dexter crowd. You know the
Pendexters?” Tom knew them
Tom knew everyone —or, if he
didn’t, Dawn did. Anyone of
importance in Sydney, anyway.
They fenced and parried to a
clash and sparkle of social
names, social doings.
Peggy scattered sparks with
the poker, kneeling before the
fire.
“Here, give me! ” Tom reached
down a masterful hand,
grabbed the poker. Peggy com-
pressed her lips and wrenched it
away. For a smallish girl she is
very strong. Tom looked sur-
prised.
Peggy sat down, carefully
arranging her skirt. I lit her
cigarette. We drew back our
chairs a little, letting the other
two talk.
“It’s all true,” Peggy whis-
pered.
“What’s true 1 ?”
“About Dawn. Her people are
filthy rich. It doesn’t seem fair,
does it?”
Put like that, it didn’t seem
fair.
“She has lovely clothes . . .
everything,” Peggy whispered.
“She’s the same age as me —23
[24, I corrected mentally; that’s
the worst of Toomalong; people
remember such things so
exactly ; it’s harder for girls] and
she’s been round the world. An
American, a millionaire, nearly,
was mad about her .. .”
“Never mind. He was prob-
ably pot-bellied and bald.”
She turned her strange eyes
full on me. “No, he wasn’t. He
was very goodlooking. I’ve seen
his photograph. And his letters
—you’ve no idea. . .”
All this in a whisper. “She
can get anyone . . .” Peggy sat
forward, her hands clasped on
her knees- —an unlovely, boyish
pose—her face expressionless.
It was sad, as much as anything
because Peggy was such a self-
confident little person normally.
There wasn’t even resentment in
her attitude ; simply an accept-
ance of the inevitable.
All this injured pride and
defeatism on account of Tom,
a stupid fellow. I was sorry I
had brought him. But, of course,
it wasn’t Tom, really. Tom was
merely a masculine symbol from
the outside world.
I could find nothing better to
say than “Pity you brought her
here.”
The green eyes widened. “Oh,
but it’s wonderful having her.
She’s so —so . . .” She waved her
hand, indicating everything
round us —“So different."
The little girl and the fairy
godmother. Or, rather, the fairy
big sister who went riding round
the world in a diamond coach,
escorted by a troop of princely
cavaliers. I would never have
suspected it of Peggy. Who, after
all, wasn’t a little girl?
“Oh, well,” she said. “Nichyevo
sebyar.” This was a Russian ex-
pression she had heard once, at
Russkye Dom, the White Russian
club in George-street, where 1
had taken her one evening when
she was in Sydney. She had
taken a fancy to the expression
and used it ever since. It means,
more or less, maaleesh, ga ne
fait rien, ganz egal —literally,
“nothing to me.” It helps, some-
times, to dress negations of
desire in foreign clothes a
double disguise.
I wondered if Dawn had ever
been to Russkye Dom. I thought
not. The “Russian Club,” over
the way, was more in her line
—and Tom’s. More obvious. In
its way Russkye Dom is ex-
clusive ; but this slender thread
of snobbery seemed poor com-
fort to offer.
I offered beer.
THE door flew open, letting
in light from the hall, a blast
of cold air, and Billy Sawyer and
his mate. The mate was small,
bandy, grinning. Billy stood for
a moment, thumbs hooked m
plaited belt, a tattered yellow-
splashed oilskin hanging from
his wide shoulders like a cloak,
a Continental fashion, which 1
was interested to see had spread
to Toomalong.
“Shut the door,” someone
called.
Billy kicked it shut.
He swaggered across to the
bar, yellow mud on his oilskrp,
mud on his elastic-side boots,
SMOKE HAZE
So then he ran back a mile through the heat with his bucket,
Splashing too much in the dust, to that last pocket
Of bush still standing where Joe had burned the break;
And saw again there, black like a burning snake,
One fallen log still smouldering; and heard once more,
In the vast silence after the fire’s red roar,
The dry leaves crack, the small gold locust scratch
Its legs together sharp as a striking match;
And felt himself, by the green upland soak
Where orange glared the sun through miles of smoke,
Trembling again in bushfire’s living presence;
And watched that torch, that spear of incandescence,
Light the whole thicket with its crimson flush,
And hurled his bucket, and quenched that bottlebrush.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
ct high-priced imported
SEND FOE
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a trac-
tion o! their cost. The
"National - ' Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduco
Typing. Writing. Plans
Music, etc.
Bull, ,ntii'ly i. Australia hr
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
.. A'orman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
pprth lDE "i> l I Vardon & Sous Ltd -
PLlim .. ..Docket Book Go. (Aust.)
MMgwgam
mm
: '
' MSm
Hwm
-4 ;
!®wSS
: k - •
K3# i i i «*Sb' , i‘fSt.
’ ~ „ V ' »A
( A*' "“"fc
fCr
- i
, -. v . ■ -
- y.
gWIM
i
■ $
-
m
*»*
gif V ---* !
H
:•*••■? >*
illiifl
H
Sfißß :
r
;;: ?g.v '
«:«!•
. 1
• H
iiißilM
ass
■
.
ir~
■
: -vH ;
■ ■
''■ :->.
■
Illustrated above and left: The International AR-110,12 cwt. Utility with 115 in. wheelbase
AR-112, 127" w.b. with drop side body
There’s an INTERNATIONAL for every job!
AR-110 Utility, 12-cwt. cap., 115-in. w.b. AR-110 Chassis
and Cab, 18-cwt. cap., 115-in. w.b. AR-110 Chassis and
Cab, 19-cwt, cap., 127-in. w.b. AR-112 Utility 15-cwt.
cap., 115-in. w.b. AR-112 Chassis and Cab, 21-cwt, cap.,
115-in. w.b. AR-112 Chassis and Cab, 23-cwt. cap., 127-in.
w.b.
CHASSIS AND CAB CAPACITIES INCLUDE BODY WEIGHT
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital
Cities.
Works: Dandenong and Geelong,
Victoria.
tbmfrfe
TOWN or COUNTRY .
WORK PLEASURE
for
Now . . . International give you modern all round
high-styling and roomy comfort for the whole family
in a vehicle that’s . . .
Built for Rugged Work
... yet with Passenger-Car Comfort
Your new International has a big lock-up cabin with
6-2/3 square feet of parcel shelf, and the roomiest cab
on the road (over 60 inches of hip-room). There’s new
clear wide-range vision, two windscreen wipers, and
two smart sun-visors. You’ll enjoy the new ease of
handling usually found only in modern cars.
Add to this the greater efficiency, down-to-earth
economy and rugged durability of every International
truck. Consider these six important features:
4"- Engine: Quiet powerful
700 max. H.P.
■fa Rugged heavy duty chassis,
•fr Sturdy semi-elliptical
springs.
ic High front axle clearance,
if Big usable load space,
if Large variety of body
styles.
Now no need for a truck and a car drive your
‘ dual-duty International for pleasure . . . use it for
work. See your dealer about your International todau.
INTERNATIONAL Ml TRUCKS
... THE WORLD’S BEST TRUCK INVESTMENT
■ FMTS4B-36-
stained hat on the side of his
head. It was hard to tell whether
he was drunk, half-drunk, or
just thirsty. He banged the
counter: “Two schooners! ”
Roy brought them. They were
raised, poised, and poured down.
Billy’s glass hit the counter a
moment before his mate’s.
“Same again.”
That settled it. They were
thirsty. x
“Been travelling, Billy?” Roy
asked, collected the tall glasses
in his long, quick hands, sliding
them under the tap as he spoke.
Putting them aside to settle, and
scooping up a foam-flecked row
from the other counter ; sliding
them under, three, four, five, and
topping-off the two schooners.
A good barman, Roy —quick.
“Travelling ” Billy spat on the
floor. Billy is a good drover, a
good fencer, and a good hus-
band and father, in generous
spasms, but he’s a bit uncouth.
“Travellin’ all bloody day with
bloody McDonald’s bloody
sheep. The biggest mob of
bloody bastards I’ve ever had
dealin’s with, bar you, Roy
Carter.”
Roy smiled politely, and
waited for the money. Billy
dragged a note from his pocket.
“Take it and we’ll cut it out.”
Roy took it. “This is a tenner,
Billy.”
“Of course it’s a tenner. We’ll
cut it out, eh, Stan?”
“Good on y’, Billy,” said his
enthusiastic mate.
Roy shrugged and turned
away to the till. But he returned
immediately, and counted out
the change, note by note, and
coin by coin. Billy watched this
performance with a grand dis-
interest. He left the money on
the counter and ordered more
beer.
“Pick up y’r money, Billy,”
urged his mate. “Y’ never
know . . .”
“Not on y’r life!” roared
Billy. “Easy seen y’ come from
—where the bloody hell do y’
come from?”
“Hay.”
“Hay. Hell, Hay an’ —ha-ha.
Don’t worry. No one’ll pinch
y’r money in Toomalong . . .”
“They might pinch your
chooks, Billy”—a voice from the
parlor.
“Who’s that! Come out
from behind there oh, it’s
you! ”
“Ha-ha. Yes, they might
pinch your chooks, ha-ha. Pinch
y’r missus too, eh, y’ old
reprobate. Ha-ha.”
The allusion was topical;
judging by a concerted bark of
laughter, which died suddenly.
Roy jerked his head. “Bob
Simpson’s in there, in the lounge,
with his wife,” he said hurriedly.
“Same again,” said Billy, and
pushed the glasses forward. “I
said nothing.”
“Where you been, Billy?” a
new voice inquired.
“Where’ve I been? I’ve been
with dirty, flamin’, stinkin’ . . .”
I had been waiting for Roy
to say something. But Roy was
busy. Billy hadn’t noticed the
girls when he marched in. Not
that he had said anything very
dreadful as yet; but such
language is progressive.
I walked over and tapped him
on the shoulder. It was like
tapping a boulder. I tapped
harder. He swung round.
“Ladies here,” I said politely.
“Break down the language, eh?”
He stared at me fiercely for
a moment, then looked around
to confirm my information. A
wandering, wavering glance that
stopped at Dawn’s fair head.
Then back to me: “And who
do y’ think you’re talkin’ to,
y’ dressed-up bastard?” He
spoke quietly and distinctly.
“Good on y’, Billy!” whooped
his mate.
“Why, I ... I told you to
break down the language,” I
said, taken aback.
“And I’m tellin’ y’ to get to
hell before I knock y’ rotten,”
Billy said, still quietly.
“Knock him rotten, Billy!”
The little fellow grinned and
hopped. “Go on, Billy boy,
knock him rotten.”
The idea grew on Billy. It
could be seen developing behind
the narrowed eyes, the criss-cross
wrinkles of the brown, tough,
unshaven face. Slowly the square
chin poked forward, the teeth
clenched, a muscle worked and
rippled at the side of the jaw.
The breath came faster through
his bent nose. Billy was becom-
ing angry.
“Knock him, Billy! ”
There’s only one end to these
bar-room arguments, usually.
Each feeds his valor with words
until the first blow is struck. It’s
neater, and more dignified, to get
it over and done with.
“Come outside, then,” I said.
I said it quietly, because I
wasn’t angry. I wasn’t happy,
either Billy wasn’t a big man,
particularly, but he was tough.
I was as big as Billy, and
younger, but I had been work-
ing in an office: I was soft.
Besides that, there was the
matter of temperament. Billy,
they said, would rather fight
than eat; I had a preference for
eating.
I didn’t relish the idea of
being beaten-up by Billy ; par-
ticularly, at the moment, I
didn’t relish the idea of going
back into the bar after having
been beaten-up. I’d look a fool
in Dawn’s eyes —why couldn’t I
have left the job to Tom? Tom
had joined the interested group
in the corridor, was walking
beside me ’out the back. He took
my coat. Good of him.
QUITE a little crowd had
gathered. Someone switched
on the back-veranda light.
Billy peeled-off his coat and
handed it to his mate.
“How are you feeling?” I
looked up to see Bruce
McDonald’s lean, delighted face.
“Lousy,” I said truthfully.
“You’ll be right,” he assured
me. “Just keep away from his
right.”
I refrained from comment.
“You should eat him,” Bruce
said, full of zest. He actually
rubbed his hands. “He can’t
box, you know. Just a slugger.”
Just!
Well, there wasn’t anything I
could do about it. I prepared
for battle. But Bruce was still
there, talking into my ear:
“Remember what I said —I saw
him fight the big Swede from
the Snowy. He does his block,
and leaves himself wide open.
Keep well away from him, and
watch your chance/’
All of which was excellent
advice, no doubt, and Bruce, a
useful G.P.S.- and university-
boxer, was as well-equipped as
anyone to give it. But it was for
someone else —someone in good
enough condition to make his
limbs do what his brain told
them. Anyway, a fight in the
backyard of a pub isn’t the same
as one with gloves; it’s over
quickly, usually.
“Who won?” I couldn’t help
the question.
“Oh, Billy. Knocked him
out, finally, after they slugged
away for about an hour. A hell
of a good fight. No science,
though.” Bruce shook his head
disapprovingly.
This depressed me. Some
highly-rated grass-fighters peter-
out quickly, and I had had a
faint hope that Billy, by the
very violence of his attack,
might tire before me.
“Oh, you won’t be able to
wear him down,” Bruce said
cheerfully, as though guessing
my thoughts. “He’s pheno-
menal —like one of those old-
timers —the hundred-round boys.
He bores in early, though, and
he leaves himself open. Just
dance round him and watch
your chance.”
Billy was coming forward —
despite the cold he had taken
his shirt off, and the hairy width
of his chest, the mighty
shoulders, and the rugged, ready
look of the man almost stopped
me in my tracks. A bull of a
man.
Bruce slapped me on the
back: “Just dance round him!”
he advised me heartily.
Billy looked me up and down
in the dim light thrown from the
upstairs bulb. “Y’re a bloody
fool,” he said finally. “I’ll eat
you. You don’t know me or
you’d have kept y’r trap shut.”
I was becoming tired of the
war of nerves. “I know bloody
well who you are, you fat skite,”
I said irritably.
Billy’s jaw dropped. “Fat?”
He glanced at his white and
hairy stomach, slapped it with
the palm of his hand ; a sound
like two boards clapped together.
It was untrue, of course ; he was
broad, but he wasn’t fat.
His eyes were back to the
level of my face: “Y* know
me?”
He couldn’t credit it. Not a
modest man, Billy, by any
reckoning. The small grey eyes
narrowed: another thought.
“Come to think of it, y’ look
familiar to me. Ever fight me
before?”
“No,” I said shortly. “I know
you, that’s all.”
Billy couldn’t believe it. “Who
am I?” he challenged. “Go on,
tell me that?”
The spectators were getting
restive, naturally. “Get crackin’! ”
one of them shouted. There were
murmurs of agreement. But
Billy was not to be diverted from
his interrogation. He stood
facing me, big scarred hands
on hips. “Never mind them,” he
said. “I’ll knock y’ rotten in good
time. But tell me this —while y’re
able,” he added unpleasantly
“what makes y’ think y’ know
me? What’s my name?”
“Billy Sawyer,” I said. “Let’s
get it over.”
But Billy had drawn back
and was inspecting me shrewdly.
“I have seen y’ somewhere. Y’
ain’t a policeman, are y'? Be-
cause,” he added, “I’m sudden
death on coppers. That’s right,
ain’t it, Stan?”
“Aw, I don’t know about that,
Billy,” .said the grinning mate.
“What about what they did to
y’ Christmas Eve?”
“Who are y’?” demanded
Billy, point-blank.
(Continued on page 34)


The ENVIOUNS DEAD
By
ETHEL ANDERSON
THE four outdoor-servants
at Mallow’s Marsh Rec-
tory were eating bread
and cheese and drinking
penny ale or cider as taste dic-
tated. They were sheltered from
the noonday sun, a nonchalant
autumnal wayfarer, by a scrubby
wattle bush, brown where once
it was amber, webbed, too, for
scores of small black caterpillars
were spinning for themselves
some kind of winter retreat, and
its boughs were almost fringed
with these creatures, all twirling
away at the ends of their swing-
ing threads.
Tan-colored grains, as fine as
grains of sand, powdered the
grey acacia-leaves. There was
more going on than met the
eye, trouble was evidently brew-
ing, but none of the men noticed
these activities, their eyes were
following the movements of the
collie dog, once the favorite of
Captain Augustus McCree, and
since his death, eight months
ago, inconsolable.
“Today poor old Collie is as
polite as a cur in a kitchen.”
Boy Jonathan drank his cider
like a man and then sucked in
his upper lip as if he had a
moustache, which he had not.
“Don’t tell me that dogs
aren’t wiser than us humans.
Today that dog is seeing some-
thing that we can’t. I’ve noticed
him all the morning, acting
queerly.”
“Aye. Walking heer and walk-
ing theer! ” Man Thomas refilled
his pewter pint-pot from the
flagon of cider that lay beside
him under the golden shadows
of the little wattle. “Look at
theer! He dipped his head just
then as I’ve seen him dip it,
a hundred times, when the cap-
tain patted him. He’s gazing
upwards, and wagging his tail,
now, as if he saw someone. It’s
uncanny.”
The beautiful collie’s coat was
almost the color of a ripe apricot.
His handsome chest, with its
efflorescence >of outstanding
snow-white hairs, following the
tension of his rippling muscles,
was as lively a feature as his vital
tail, now waving back, a plume,
over his tawny rump. His eyes
had orange streaks freaking
their limpid, brown and they
were as clear as the pools in
Tommy Tickle’s Creek, which
gurgled its way through Mallow’s
Marsh village, and which always
seemed to have sunlight stream-
ing through the water.
Usually Collie’s moist, black-
lipped mouth hung open, his red
tongue lolling out to one side,
an unnecessary amount of puff-
ing and panting going on, which,
with a pricking-up of ears, a
tossing-about of a feathery tail,
showed wild activities were being
kept in leash as it were, as he’d
wait, smiling as a dog smiles,
for the word “Go!”
Every now and then, too, he’d
let out a quick yelp, or yawn,
showing still more of his sharply
pointed teeth, clean as a whistle,
and quite dazzlingly white
against his black, picot-edged
gums. Watering with eagerness,
his mouth would drip saliva as a
tree drops gum, his tail would
thump the ground.
The four men watched the dog
going through these familiar
antics.
“He’s got the energy of a
dozen dogs, that feller!”
“Him? But who is he per-
forming for? Tell me that! Ever
since the captain was killed he
has been lying about like a log,
caring for nothing! But—-today!
What on earth has come over
him?”
Boy Jonathan buried a puzzled
face in a brimming pint-pot.
Only, over the pewter brim his
/ '
eyes still regarded the peculiar
dog. The boy’s eyes were blue ;
so blue that to gaze into them
was an adventure as great as
finding some rare plant—a
gentian, say, on a long-familiar
hill-top.
“Aye, poor brute, he’s been
missing his master. A dog sees
with his master’s mind, like. Life
ain’t real for a dog without that
glance from his master’s eyes,
that he waits for, that he begs
for, to reassure him about the
Universe, like.”
Old Ike, who had fought in
the Crimea, and who was not
old, was the most authoritative
of the ragged quartet.
AN a wage of two pounds a
year (all found) the men
were bound to keep the clothes
that really covered them for
“best,” so a great deal of muscle,
whip-cord, adventurous black
hair, and tanned flesh showed
through their unmended blue
cotton shirts. Their breeches of
green or brown corduroy had,
rubbed into their ribbing, so
much of the earth that moss
might have grown on them.
Strings were tied below their
knees. Boy Jonathan wore
roughly contrived hessian
gaiters; he had been scything a
paddock of Mitchell-grass.
All four men, however,
sported very good hats, rough-
napped beavers, of a chimney-
pot type, which nothing could
dint, and which never wore out,
and which were handed down,
as a matter of course, from
father to son, as were their
working smocks, made of hand-
woven linen as stiff as a board,
and stitched in a tradition ac-
cepted for five hundred years ;
but these were laid by ; they were
not then worn.
“What does a mongrel do
when he loses one master? He
gets another! ” Old Ike went on,
slicing a plug with a knife that
might easily (from the look of
it) have belonged to Abraham.
“It’s his instinct to attach
himself to a man. Oye. Regular
barnacles dogs be.”
“Stare a dog in the eye,” Boy
Jonathan ventured to say, “and
he’ll look away before you do.”
“Oye. He’s got his own
reasons for that, mind you.” Old
Ike was not to be gainsaid.
“True, a dog’s experience is
mostly made up of bits and
pieces he’s picked up from us,
see? Apart from his instincts,
that is. He learns a lot from
us, see? Only, sometimes, if you
tries to stare a dog out of coun-
tenance, you’ll read in his eyes
something you can’t grasp, some
secret he knows and you don’t.
Oye! He understands the bar-
rier there is between a dog and
a man. He’s got some knowledge
of life or death that he won’t
give away. When he turns his
eyes from ours, like that, a dog
is at his strangest! That with-
drawal is a contempt on what
we are. Yes, that’s what it be.”
Whenever Old Ike said “Oye,”
he would change the quid of
tobacco he was chewing from
one cheek to the other, and it
so altered his appearance that a
man conversing with him would
see (from the side) at first a
cadaverous, lined face, and next
minute a plump, cheerful con-
tour, for the big quid had the
effect achieved by those quaint
gadgets called “plumpers,”
which, in that era, old ladies in-
serted in their mouths to lift a
fallen face. Two such quids,
properly placed, would have
taken years off his age.
“Yes, indade,” Mike, the
Irishman from Kildare, agreed.
“After a point a dog refuses
to be anything but a dog.”
“Not exactly. I mean to say
that he refuses to go all the way
with us, because he knows more
about us than we’d care to
think.”
Past the four reclining men
the five-o’clocks floated in the
windless air east or west. Sun-
light fawned on the buff grasses,
bowed with seed, on the now
sparse-leaved orchard, in the rus-
set chrysanthemums, the re-ber-
ried currant-bushes, the mellow
brick of the rectory walls. The
whole landscape was touched-in
with innumerably varied tones
of ochre and Indian-red ; only
the trellises at the back-veranda
and over the front porch were
both overloaded with Marechal
Niel roses, yellow as guineas. The
thin air seemed to have drained
all color from the sky; even the
farthest perimeter of heaven was
not blue, though the day was
cloudless. The distant Razor-
backs had retired, as they some-
times did, into a lavender haze.
A/TIKE, the man from Kildare,
***- with his faun’s face and eyes
as light as a goat’s, rammed
tobacco into his clay pipe.
“Every blessed morning when
I’m after getting in the milkers
it’s my pleasure to walk across
the wet paddocks in the peace of
the first sunlight, and today,
coming back to the bail-yard, I
glanced over the orchard-wall at
the headstones dotted round the
church, all looking over each
other’s shoulders at me as it
seemed, and there, shining with
dew, high above them, I saw
the captain’s new broken column.
“White hairs grow on my
heart to see it, so they do. And
what else do I see? I see the
captain’s dog, that collie, flat on
his belly, shaking, you’d say, with
love and terror like a girl, and
I saw the poor hound crawling
forward, stopping, sometimes,
to lay his head on the ground,
and whine, abject, whimpering
—aye —incredulous, that dog
seemed to be! He was watching
his dead master, I’d swear. I had
ten cows to milk or I’d have
stayed to watch him.”
“Aye. The captain’s dog felt
his loss more keenly than some
who should have mourned him.”
Old Ike and his three com-
panions turned their heads to
look at the white-sashed open
window of the captain’s old bed-
room where, much earlier in the
morning, they had all noticed
the debonair figure of a
handsome man, and had heard
him whistling snatches from
popular ballads, or humming
scraps of song, and had seen
him turning, sometimes, to speak
to an unseen auditor, as he
shaved at the small mirror he
had balanced on the sill.
He was young. He was buoy-
ant with health and spirits. “Back
from the honeymoon—the bar-
ley-sugar month!” Old Ike took
the churned quid from his
mouth and spat.
“Kisses are ripest green, I’ve
heerd say.” Boy Jonathan
sounded wistful.
Mike burst into a shout of
laughter and knocked the lad
off his balance with a clout in
the ribs.
“Hark at our youngster! Oh,
listen, bhoys, to our young nut-
of-knowledge! You and your
auld saws! For meself, I’ve done
with kisses an’ all! Aye, done
with ’em for iver and aye! I
have that! Here’s another pro-
verb to help educate you, laddie!
‘A calf, I fell into the milk!’
And fegs, I did, too! By the
Crown and the Rock, I was as
happy as Larry at your age.
There wasn’t a girl between
Dublin and the Bog of Allan
I’d not pleasured and teased and
kissed an’ all ! It was Mavour-
neen here and Alannah theer”
Hastily Mike sprang to his
feet. Boy Jonathan was advanc-
ing on him, the light of battle in
his eye. In the bright, cold sun-
shine then the two young men
sparred, dancing on agile feet
on the long, withering grass,
happy in their youthful strength,
in their gay, animal play.
The flying almanacks had
already gone north. Not a
swallow, not a swift, not even
a house-martin was to be seen,
but the untiring larks, so high in
the zenith as to be almost in-
visible, sang, most of the day
and part of the night. They were
perfectly audible, though so dis-
tant. It was their country, this
wide, grassy plain. Tirra lirra!
Tirra lirra! They were hard at
it now.
T>UT suddenly Boy Jonathan,
" one brawny arm crooked
across his face to fend off a
coming blow, stopped his foxy
boxing to say, breathlessly,
“Jest look at that dog!”
The four men glanced across
the calm sea of grass to the open
gate that led to the group of
outhouses, the stables.
“You’d swear Collie was fol-
lowing someone!”
“Aye, he’s tailing someone’s
heels, it’s plain.”
“Oye! I’ve seen him trot like
that after the captain many and
many a time.”
The sense of an unseen pre-
sence was strong in the four men
as they listened to the captain’s
mare whinnying from her stable.
Collie barked, a short, happy
sound.
“Nobody rides the captain’s
mare these days.”
“Nobody could.”
“I exercises her!”
Mike the Irishman was indig-
nant. If he could not ride a
horse—who could?
“Oye, so you do. But the
captain was a king in the saddle,
so he was.”
Standing upright by Mike the
Boy Jonathan jerked an impish
thumb in the direction of the
window they had just been
observing.
“New master! He’ll ride the
captain’s mare.”
The men laughed.
Boy Jonathan could not
afford to smoke a pipe. The men
had ways (unknown to him) of
getting tobacco, and sometimes
he would be given a twisj. This
he would soak, a month, in
molasses, dry it, another month,
by the chimney-piece, and when
it had matured to his fancy, he
would chew it, a pungent,
smoky sweetmeat, his one
luxury. Sampling with relish a
new plug, he threw himself down
on the grass beside Old Ike.
“What a race that was the
captain rode!”
Drowsy with ale and cider the
men lay about on the resilient
grass, that made the spongy
earth as easy as a bed, not damp,
either, though every so often
a rainbow-glazed puddle, held in
the hoof-print of some beast,
had, growing by it, a tuft of
swamp heath, a winter plant,
flowering early; five inches of
valiant life facing its nearest
neighbor, the sun. It was so
peaceful, so remote, so feature-
less, this wide rolling bit of
marshland. Even the bees were
resting.
The men considered that their
noontide halt might be indefin-
itely postponed. They had, after
all, been at work since four-
o’clock. Master and mistress,
bride and groom, together with
the two chilldren, Juliet and
Donalbain, were junketing in
Parramatta.
“And where’s the hurry?”
Man Thomas asked, his power-
ful arms clasped round his knees.
“Nature moves slow enough in
all conscience, and why should
the likes of us try to outrun
Nature?”
Man Thomas, with his frizzy
black beard, hooked nose and
rolling eye, his gold ear-rings and
deeply tanned skin might have
been taken from a figure in an
Assyrian frieze —some king of
Babylon or Nineveh, say, return-
ing from a lion hunt. But he was
a good workman.
“What! Wait till the wind
moves me, as if I Was a tree?
Not I. I likes exercising my
muscles, like,” he rambled on,
flexing his great arms.
Boy Jonathan agreed with
him. He, too, was an athlete,
classical in his proportions; a
younger Michelangelo, Adam,
perhaps, with more buckram.
'THE men were speaking at
random, their thoughts with
the dead captain, for they were
listening without comment to the
sounds that floated across to
them from the stableyard.
The mare whinnied again.
The collie gave that strangled
yelp which anticipation of
pleasure always brought from
him.
A bucket rattled, turned oyer
by the mare’s hooves, which
could be heard tap-tapping on
the bricked floor of her stall.
She was restive.
“Surely you’d think there was
someone in the stables with the
dog and the mare.”
Boy Jonathan, springing up,
ran to see.
“No one,” he reported, again
settling down beside Old Ike.
Old Ike lay flat on his back,
his greyhound’s body extended
at full stretch, his arms clasped
behind his head, his hat tilted
over his long nose.
“A man has short span.” Mike
was thinking of the captain’s
brief life.
“ttE’S free a short time. As a
-“■boy he’s like a dog with
his master, learning from his
father; then things get reversed
like, he’s the master and his
son’s the dog. And between
these years?” Old Ike answered
his own question. “Between
these years is he free? He is
not! Every generation has its
country’s battles to fight, and a
man may be proving his man-
hood, belike, for half his youth
—but they are valuable years.
The years a man spends with


■«
W*
and it's all done with ONE
Mobilco machine . . . •
If you had all the time in the world to get your hay
in ... if you had labour to spare you wouldn't need
to worry about machines for your farm. But as this is
not generally the case, just think over the savings this
Mobilco Loader/Stacker will make. It's a machine that
loads AND stacks bales, bags and other bulky
materials. It's a machine that hitches to your truck
"to go with it" at business-like speed to pick up and
stack those bales at the right time, and you know that
for best quality hay there certainly is a right time.
Mobilco loads and Mobilco stacks. With eleva-
tor lowered it picks up from the ground . . •
with elevator raised it loads to the stacks. For
stacking, elevator pivots through 90° so that
you can put the bale off just where you want.
1 h.p. Jap engine supplies the power. Mobilco
supplies the guarantee and offers convenient
terms. POST THE COUPON FOR THE FULL STORY.
QUICK REPLY COUPON
I'd like all the details of the Mobilco Loader/
Stacker posted today.
NAME
ADDRESS
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN - PHONES: YX 1244-5
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC.
WU 1081 (9 LINES) - BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
AGENTS « - - - - LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
his race, like, apart from his
personal life. They bring a man
memories that never leave him.
In our charge at Balaclava (it
were with the Heavy Brigade) a
boy rode at me, he couldn’t have
been sixteen, a child, I’d say,
looking in my eyes as he came
on, full tilt. I cut him down at
the gallop, a clean point with my
sabre. But he wins! He wins!
I’ll never forget that boy’s face.
No, never!”
The older men, too, had such
memories. There was silence.
“Hardship?” Old Ike went on.
“Fifteen-thousand of us died of
the weather, and cholera. We
fought up to our knees in water.
No wounded man had a chance
of surviving until Florence
Nightingale came —well, we
come back men, I’d say, from
that sort of thing. Yes. Men.
And what do we do? We saddle
ourselves with a woman, as like
as not.
“But we do this of our own
free will. We chose to serve.
“And for why?
“Just for this.” Old Ike waved
a long arm, taking in the cluck-
ing groups of hens, the ram-
shackle wooden outbuildings,
the grazing, distant herds, the
landscape rich in the simplicity
of everyday life. “It’s ours, this,
an’ we mean to keep it.
“We shape our lives by this.
Yes.”
And the men sitting there felt
a buoyant and pulsating life stir
in their veins, and they knew it
was good to be alive, and each
man in his heart thought of the
dead captain lying under his
broken column.
And each man, listening,
shivered as he heard the mare
stamping in her box, and heard,
again, the collie’s sharp bark.
well!” Old Ike changed
his quid. “We all went
to see the captain ride that
famous race. We met him at the
cross-roads on the turnpike way
to Parramatta, and he was all
dressed-up in a bright-yellow cap
and a magenta jersey with car-
dinal sleeves. The mare looked
a picture, she did, dancing
away! Oh, a sweet little bit she
were. Coquetting like a woman.
And the captain, gentling her,
as like as two peas to Miss
Juliet. Those bright eyes! That
copper-top! And argue? Lord!
He was a slight man more than
a big man. Him and the mare
were trained to the last hair.”
Man Thomas, who had also
watched the famous race,
chimed in: “The queerest affair
it was! Did ye ever hear the
like of the terms?”
He appealed to the two
younger men. “Race to be run
one man sober, one man
drunk !
“It all came about from the
captain being such a one to
argue. There was a chap says
a tipsy man has higher powers,
like, and that he’s got more
natural daring than a sober man,
and has a sort of sixth sense.
This feller says a man rides his
best half-seas over.
“ ‘Who looks after a drunken
sailor?’ he asks. ‘Drunken
sailor, he does! He ain’t got no
use for the cherub as sits up
aloft.’
“Money on the race was fifty
pounds a side. We all had our
bets placed, of course.
“Laugh! A tipsy man’s a
funny sight, anyway, but this
here feller took it serious-like,
and he experimented with every
sort of tipple, he did. He come
out to Mallow’s Marsh and did
part of the course tight on rum,
then tight on brandy, then well
lit with whisky. Lord! What
times those were! All his friends
came out with him and give him
good advice, and in the end they
thought he rode best sozzled on
champagne laced with gin.
“The course ran from Mal-
low’s Marsh cross-roads to a
spot on the banks of the river—
Nepean, was it? Or Parramatta
River? Well, anyway, there it
was, all marked with flags.”
“This country looks as if it
might be good going,” Mike
said, easing a cramped leg, “but
far from it. I know it well, after
exercising the mare, and though
there’s no hills there’s a hundred
depressions—what’d’ y’ call ’em?
—declivities, drains and creeks
and such, and there’s many a
patch of mud would keep me
sunk and would take all the gifts
of Eevul Queen of Carriglee to
get me out”
“The mare has a gust of speed
a swallow would hardly beat.”
“She’s a queer color, fegs.”
“She’s of King Herod’s stock,
through some French sire, they
say, as is grey, and has Arab
blood, brought from the prophet
Mahomet’s own brood-mares—
so I’m told.”
“She’s a flea-bitten grey all
right. Almost a blue-roan.”
“With four crame pasterns,
and a crame mane and tail”
“Something out of a fairy-
story—from the breath of her
nostrils to the last hair in her
tail, a darlint! Lepping proud! ”
“You hear her singing Bonnie
Dundee in her rocking-horse
stride.”
“And such a high-stepper. I
look to see her knock her teeth
out with her knees,” Boy Jona-
than was not to be left out.
“On the day of this here race,”
Old Ike continued, “she were at
the height of her powers. Other
chap, he had a good mount, see,
for his backers saw to that, mind
you, but this chap is the sort as
gets more dignified with every
glass he drinks. That day he
moved stiff as a ramrod, and
were very precise in his steps,
and very polite, and bowing here
and there! To see him mount!
He got a foot in the stirrup and
his friend gives a heave. He
misjudges like, and puts himself
on the horse’s ears —and there
he stays! Laugh? So we did!
“Oye. But chap had a likely
sprinter as wouldn’t take much
notice of him, been given a
bolus, I’d say.
“It was allowed! ‘Man and
horse full to the skin,’ the cap-
tain said, ‘if you like it that way
—and I’ll beat you.’
“Oh, ah, steed didn’t mind,
steed didn’t! Blessed if the race
didn’t start with his jockey’s
little legs clasping his horse’s
neck
“Well, there they all were, at
Mallow’s Marsh cross-roads, all
ready for the old rector to drop
his handkerchief as the signal
for go, and he was present, he
says, ‘in the cause of temper-
ance,’ but they do say as he had
a bob on either way —but, Lord!
It was a joke as like as not.
Gay as larks all the McCrees
were, after their habit of being
cheerful on an empty
stomach ——
“Good heavens!”
IKE in one rippling
movement had sprung to
his feet.
He pointed towards the pad-
dock fringing the standing corn.
The men all jumped to their
feet. There was an imperative
urgency in Ike’s sudden move-
ment.
The three men, following the
pointing finger, saw the grey
mare clambering up the bank on
the far side of the hidden stream
that ran from Mallow’s Marsh.
Gaining level ground she trotted
along the bridle-path.
The dog Collie, barking, fol-
lowed at her heels. The dog
seemed wild with joy.
The mare tossed her mane,
eager to gallop; she had the
air of being restrained, her ears
were pressed back, her mouth
held down, towards an arching
neck, as she trotted faster and
faster, as a horse does when
trying, against his rider’s wish,
to break into a gallop.
“Is she saddled? Is she
bridled?” Man Thomas shaded
his eyes, the sun, though still
high, was dipping westwards,
and the fast-moving mare was
dark against the now golden
grasses. “I can’t make out: Has
she a rider?”
“She’s taking the road for
Picton which the captain often
took.”
“What can we do? Old Ruby
is with the vet., the other two
horses are out!”
“We could cut across on
foot”
“Heavens alive? Within an
hour we’ll have the family
back!”
“I’ll borrow a nag in the
village.’’ Boy Jonathan ran off.
“I’ll cut across Tom Tickle’s
Creek and chance heading her
off.” Mike broke into a run,
threshing his way through the
corn and plunging over the fast-
running creek.
Old Ike hurriedly made his
way to the church-tower.
From the top he looked along
the road which would bring
the rector and his family back
from Parramatta. A mere speck
in the distance showed the gig.
It would be an hour, perhaps,
before they all got back. Look-
ing west, towards the mountain
ranges, Ike had no difficulty in
following the progress of the
mare. Galloping now. Had she
a rider? Ike could see none.
Yet the mare’s disciplined move-
ments betokened one. He
picked up Boy Jonathan, on his
brother’s bay hack, cantering
out to intercept her. Mike, he
could not see.
Boy Jonathan was now going
all out to intercept the runaway
by the bridge, a sapling-raft,
merely, laid on sleepers, that
spanned Tom Tickle’s Creek,
which was wider and ran more
swiftly where the hills met the
plain.
Looking down Ike saw Man
Thomas standing on the orchard
wall.
“Mike is following the cattle-
track along the edge of the
creek,” he called up, seeing Old
Ike lean over the parapet.
“I can see both gig and
phaeton now,” Ike called back.
“They’ll be here within an hour
—but it’s hard to judge.”
On the straight road that ran
five miles without a turn, and in
a country with no upstanding
features, it was hard to judge
distance.
Again Old Ike scanned the
sunlit acres westward. He
could now see no sign of the
mare or the dog.
The sky, as it sometimes did
in this particular marshy corner
of the earth, was already spread-
ing a gold mantle over its faded
blue, and flecks of bright-pink
vapor floated out from the sink-
ing orange ball; the sunset was
not due, yet some kind of
rehearsal for it was going on.
The crisp tassels of the standing
corn, the feather-stitched edges
of the ripe wheat or oats, soon to
be cut and stacked for the har-
vest, were drenched in a warmer
gold than their own. The long
straight road to Parramatta was
a river of light, for its surface
was so moist that the tint of
every cloud, meandering across
the sky above it, was mirrored
in it.
“They’ll soon be here —and
there’s nothing we can do,” Old
Ike called down to Man Thomas.
“I’ve lost sight of Boy Jonathan,
and Mike, and the mare. I’ll
come down.”
Down he clambered, by the
ladder that circled round the
bell. Man Thomas slid off the
wall to join him.
“I’ve lost sight of Mike, too,”
he said. “Shall we go to the
stables and find out how the
mare came to get away? I
bolted the half-gate when I gave
her the oats about midday.”
IT was a few hundred yards
only from the orchard wall to
the stable-yard. The two men
passed the flattened grass where
at noon they had been lying,
and went through the white gate
into the yard.
They saw the mare’s grey and
cream head as she looked over
the half-door of her stall.
They saw the collie, tired, it
seemed, stretched out on the
ground, his head lying on his
white paws. He thumped his
tail, but did not spring up.
The two men, utterly
astonished, looked the mare
over. They opened the half-
door and, going into the stable,
felt her arched neck and her
blue-grey flanks.
“Moist,” Old Ike said.
“Warn*,” Man Thomas said,
putting a hand to the lining of
the saddle as it hung on its
wooden peg above the manger
at the back of the stable.
“Warm!”
“She’s been out, I’d swear
it.” Old Ike was positive.
“Yes, I agree,” Man Thomas
said. “She has had a gallop. No
doubt of it. She did that two-
mile-round we watched her
doing. But how did she get
out? I drew that bolt.”
“If rattled it might have
slipped.”
“Might r
Old Ike leant against the
stable wall and cut himself a
fresh plug. “You know, and I
know, that the way the dog
behaved, and the way the mare
behaved, all make a man think
that the captain has been round
today. Back from the grave?
How could it be?”
“It’s queer,” Man Thomas
allowed, leaning against the half-
gate while the mare nuzzled his
pockets to find the sugar he
sometimes brought her.
The evening was coming on.
The spreading sunset-gold now
colored the sky and all the
glistening earth.
‘Td say the captain played
with his dog . .
“It looked like that . .
“And rode his mare . .
“It looked like that . .
“The dog saw him, I think,
even if we didn’t ...”
“Yes, the dog saw him . . .”
“I think the mare carried
him . . .”
“Yes. I think she knew her
rider . . .”
Old Ike turned a lined, serious
face, to look Man Thomas
gravely in the eye. “Will that
poor rapid ghost go back to his
grave at sunset? Or will he
wait to see the wife —who was
more to him than dog or horse
—and who has taken a new
husband in his place? Will she
see him? As the dog saw him?
As the mare knew him?”
“I’d spare her that, poor
young woman.”
“What can we do? Nothing.”
There was no wind, but a
sighing breath passed the wait-
ing men and stirred the loosely
poised leaves on the reddened
guelder-rose by the stable-door.
Some dropped.
“We can at least say nothing.”
“Yes, that much we can do.”
At this moment Collie got up,
going slackly, as a tired dog
might, to follow someone unseen
along the bricked path that went
round the southern side of the
rectory, the side always in
shadow, green with moss, where
draggled arum - lily leaves
drooped over the damp earth.
Going after him, the two men
saw the dog settle down by the
front gate, by the low gate that
ended the pavement from the
front door, with its porch over-
loaded with roses, its tufts of
clove-carnations, its clumps of
polyanthus, their stems tied-up
in tissue-paper—for Mrs. Mc-
Cree was saving the seed, and in
the dusk the white rosettes might
have been mistaken for flowers.
THE new housemaid had just
taken the lamps into the
drawing-room, and the two
French-windows glowed with
light. The lamp swinging in the
(Continued on page 34)
A CUP OF SEA-WATER
I had no thought for a poem, so I wrote
Casually of the sea. The sea is
A common subject, and easily
Described for who doesn’t know of a boat
And sand and rocks and what the sea is?
I wrote of the sea, and I spoke of it breezily;
But not in a poem—for who doesn’t know
That a poem couldn’t capture the sea,
Save as a cup holds it? Then the sea tastes
Warm and not unlike blood; and though
It has water’s colorless anonymity,
Like blood it is all too savage to drink, and wastes
And is thrown away, once you taste its fierce flavor
Which is all I will you to taste, my few words to savor.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


Im
/
v^//>
r
Mobilgas
SPEC/AL
The world’s greatest selling premium gasoline-
with Mobil Power Compound
»I|iqo||
“tt»JtJqnnqo|,
Buy Mob i I gas Special from
i your Mobilgas Service Station
under the sign of the Flying Red Horse
GSS3
COMPANY
VACUUM OIL
Divorce Notices
THE NORTHERN TERRITORY OF
AUSTRALIA —In the Supreme Court.
No. 88 of 1955.
BETWEEN IDA MARY PEARL
WALLACE Plaintiff and ROY WALLACE
Defendant. TO ROY WALLACE—NOTICE
is hereby given to ROY WALLACE whose
last known address was at “Conemarra”
Connondale in the State of Queensland
that IDA MARY PEARL WALLACE of
Darwin has issued a Writ in the Supreme
Court of the Northern Territory of Aus-
tralia in an action in which IDA MARY
PEARL WALLACE claims an order for
Divorce from her husband on the grounds
of habitual cruelty and desertion for
three years and upwards and in sueh
action his wife intends to ask for an
order for custody of the children and for
maintenance and if ROY WALLACE de-
sires to be heard in opposition of the
claim for any such order he must file an
appearance in the office of the Master of
the Supreme Court of the Northern Terri-
tory of Australia at Darwin on or before
the 15th day of August 1955 otherwise
orders may be made against him in his
absence. —DATED this 16th day of June,
1955.—J0HN W. LYONS. Smith Street,
Darwin, Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO VINCENT INMAN formerly of
Merivale Street South Brisbane in the
State of Queensland but whose present
whereabouts are unknown.—T A K B
NOTICE that your wife ADA ELIZA-
BETH INMAN has commenced an action
No. 588 of 1955 against you for disso-
lution of her marriage with you on the
ground of desertion without cause for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Registry of the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Brisbane within Thirty
days from the date of the publication
hereof You may obtain without charge
a copy of the Writ of Summons and
Petition from DANIEL P. HEMPEN-
STALL, ESQUIRE, Solicitor, Atlas
Chambers, 27 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
in the State of Queensland. DATED at
Brisbane this Twenty-first day of June,
1955.—F. J. RUSSELL, Second Deputy
Registrar.
TO VERNON VIVIAN GRAHAM-DAFTER
formerly care of the Water Conserva-
vation and Irrigation Commission Tulla-
kool Via Barham New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife ANNIE
GRAHAM-DAFTER has commenced pro-
ceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the ground of separation for a con-
tinuous period of not less than five years
immediately preceding the commence-
ment of the action and there is no
reasonable likelihood of cohabitation
being resumed If you desire to defend
such proceedings you must file your
Defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within forty (40)
clear days from the date of this publica-
tion In default of your so doing the
case may proceed and the Court will
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. DATED
this 29th day of June, 1955. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £3 Foreign .... £2/10/i
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
...
Wants
TV, huv mnv nf Pfnndv Hint* fnr
the Farm Dublished bv The Bur mm
inn ’ V J
»
Information Sought
s
Particulars of poetry competition,
the proceeds to be devoted to the
“Steele Rudd” Memorial Fund, being
conducted by the Queensland
Authors and Artists’ Association ?
The subject shall be a poem on
some aspect of Australian country
life. A cash prize of £2 2s. and
some of “Steele Rudd’s” books,
including a first edition, will be
awarded. An entry-fee of 2s. 6d.
must be submitted with each entry;
entries must be the original work of
the entrant; MS. will not be returned
unless return postage is forwarded;
poems must be signed with pen-name
only, a sealed envelope with author’s
name and address to be forwarded
with entry; copyright will remain the
property of the author. Closing
date will be September 30, 1955.
Address all entries to “Poetry Com-
petition,” Box 1871 w, G.P.0., Bris-
bane, Queensland.
* * * *
What funeral benefits under the
Social Services Scheme are paid by
the Commonwealth Government?
Funeral-benefit payments paid by
the Commonwealth are limited to
those persons who have paid, or are
liable to pay, the cost of the funeral
of an age- or invalid-pensioner. It
is extended to help cover funeral
expenses of a person who, but for
his or her death, would have been
granted an age- or invalid-pension or
t tuberculosis allowance. The bene-
fit will not be payable to a person
administering a contributory funeral-
benefit fund. The amount payable
under Commonwealth legislation is
£lO where nothing is received from a
contributory funeral-benefits fund,
other than a fund connected with a
friendly society. Where the cost of
the funeral has been partly met by a
payment from a contributory funeral-
benefit fund of an organisation other
than a friendly society, funeral bene-
fit is payable for the part not met
by the fund; but the Commonwealth
contribution is still limited to £lO.
A claim for funeral benefit should
be lodged within six months after
the pensioner’s death with the Com-
monwealth Director of Social
Services in the capital city of the
State in which the death occurred,
Claim-forms may be obtained from
a registrar of deaths or from any
_
office of the Commonwealth Depart-
ment ° f Socia Services-
* * * *
(7) Are there schools in Sydney for
training commercial air-pilots? (2)
Maximum age-limit for pupils enter-
in 8 such schools? (3) Cost and
duration of course? ( 4 ) Must a
student pass a medical examination
before beginning a course, and where
are such examinations held ? (5)
Where can tuition in the necessary
theoretical subjects be obtained ?
(1) There are three flying-schools
licensed to carry out flying-training
a t Bankstown Airport, Sydney—
Kingsford Smith Flying Service,
Hlawarra Flying School and the
Royal Aero Club of N.S.W. All are
based on the airport, and are able
to train pupils up to commercial-
pilot standard. (2) The age-limit for
commercial pilots is 45 years. How-
ever, only those pupils under the age
of 30 years are able to take advan-
tage of the Commonwealth subsidy
paid to approved training organisa-
tions. (3) The cost of flying at sub-
sidised rates at Kingsford Smith
Flying Service and Ulawarra Flying
School is £3 15s. per hour, dual and
solo. The Royal Aero Club, which
is also able to provide full accommo-
datinn at ru*r wpplc rViaropc iQo
Der u QU d P j d A I7 s B ner hour
solo This rate is sliehtlv increased
case of larser abcraft rS
S Dr oximate cost in obtaining the
necessarv 155 hours reauired for the
j ss / commercial nilot licence
a nn It is ooSe
to 165 hours withffi a
six weeks, but the general
m 1„ { „ np vear Av Y ps Mpdiral
examination/ are carried nut Wv
manv aDDroved examiners situated
ZoLhoui S sfate fst Bv a
correspondence course run
Colleee of Civil Aviation ossa
Georse-street Svdnev ’
® ‘ ’ y y '
*
What are the general conditions
governing the granting of assistance
to magazines of approved literary
value by the Commonwealth Literary
Fund ?
(1) Assistance shall only be made
to literary magazines which have
established themselves by regular
publication over a period, and have
achieved a recognised standard of
literary quality. (2) The magazine
shall be essentially literary in aim
and contents, although other cultural
interests may find expression in its
pages. (3) The magazine shall not
be the medium of a small literary
coterie but shall have national
literary value. (4) The magazine
shall not be the organ for the expres-
sion of any political or religious
doctrines, although there shall be no
restriction upon the freedom of
expression on matters of social,
political or religious interest affecting
Australian literature. (5) The maga-
zine shall be operated generally upon
a non-profitmaking basis. (6) In
order to enable the fund to deter-
mine the need and nature of the
financial assistance required, the
magazine shall submit a full state-
ment of its financial position with its
application to the fund for aid. (7)
The grant shall be made upon an
annual basis in quarterly instalments.
(8) The fund may cancel any grant
to a magazine if it deems that the
editor has failed to carry out any of
the above provisions.
Brief Answers
WJ.D.: There are vacancies on the
staff of the Darwin Higher Primary
School. Other schools are adequately
staffed at present. Vacancies occur
from time to time, and applications
for 1956 should be forwarded to the
Director of Education, Adelaide, in
August this year. Teachers appointed
by the S.A. Education Department
are paid S.A. salaries plus a special
living-allowance of £2OO for a married
man and £l2O for single persons.
Most of the teachers in the N.T. are
appointed by the S.A. Education
Department, but those in charge of
native schools are appointed by the
Commonwealth A.H.H.: You are
only partly correct in your story about
the withdrawal from sale of the Id.
King George V red stamp. It was
issued in Dec., 1913, and was recess-
engraved. This printing process was
too slow to keep up with demand.
The details of the stamp also caused
much criticism. The emu was nick-
named “the dissolute fowl,” and this
was only one of many complaints.
It was decided to then print the
stamp by the surface method, which
was considered to be far more satis-
factory and speedy. This stamp
became available in July, 1914, and,
with its issue, instructions were
given for withdrawal of the recess
type V.McD.: Article “The Auld
Shop and the Bushman’s Bible,” by
W. E. Fitz Henry, appeared in
“Biblionews” for May, 1955. Copies
can be obtained from Walter Stone,
Editor, “Biblionews,” 64 Young-
street, Cremome (N-S.W.) R.J.8.:
Write the Royal Agricultural Society
of N. S. Wales, Endeavour House, 33
Macquarie-place, Sydney T.G.8.:
The length of the Sydney Showground
arena is 660 ft., width 500 ft., area
five acres J.McS.: See N.S.W.
Aboriginal Place Names and
Euphonious Words, With Their
M e antng s, by Frederick D.
McCarthy, obtainable from the
Australian Museum, College-street,
Sydney M.C.: It is uneconomical
to make a hygrometer of the type
you refer to. A goodrquality hair
hygrometer with 4in. dial is priced
at £4 155., and a recording type
is priced at £32. A special clock is
used in the recorder, which rotates
once every day or seven days, and for
which special charts are printed, and
though it is not impracticable to make
one, provided materials are available,
we doubt whether it would be any
cheaper.. . .A.L.8.: The Writers and
Artists’ Year Book, published by
Adam and Charles Black, London;
obtainable from Australian book-
sellers at 12s. 9d L.E.: The
questions asked involve considerations
which are so extensive that replies
could not be conveniently given in
these columns. The information is
set out in considerable detail in the
publication The Practice of the
Registrar-General’s Department, pages
118-128, a copy of which may be
inspected at the Public Library of
N. S. Wales, Sydney... .S.M.G.: No
claim is made on a pensioner’s estate
unless an overpayment of pension has
occurred. In the circumstances out-
lined in your letter no claim would
be made... .MJE.: The lines “And
while she hid all England with a
kiss, Bright over Europe fell her
golden hair,” are from the poem
“Letty’s Globe,” by Char le s
Tennyson-Turner (1808-1879).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
A.McL.: Scene of struggle between
Chinese laundryman and Afghan
hawker shifted to w.p.b W.S.G.:
No use for the lady who got her
poodle back in the form of sausages.
.... J.M.: Nerve-shattering tour in
decrepit car is a long-overworked
theme L.E.: You can have the
octopus back L.F.R.: It’s no
recommendation to preface your
verse by an assurance that you don’t
expect payment for it—rather the
opposite V.H.: You’re right not
to be daunted by failure. But
success hardly strikes us as imminent
in your case T.T.: Didn’t fancy
the fellow with “love-light beaming
from his eyeballs” F.M.H.: Same
old spinster, looking under same old
Bed... .P.J.D.: We never heard of a
bullock-driver soliloquising in that
strain G.E.F.: Consider yourself
buried, then: —
And now my life is almost finished
And the long journey about done,
Bury me deep by the sea shore
With my feet to the sinking sun.
....W.J.K.: Not hopeless, perhaps,
but far from hopeful F.S.McF.:
Resignedly awaiting further contribu-
tions “in a similar strain”... .H.H.S.:
Dave, Sarah and the prize-milker are
old friends... .R. 8.: Solve your
mysteries before sending them to us.
C.N.W.: “There are many pros-
pecting tragedies which have never
been written.” Wrong; we’ve had
them all. ...A.F.: Didn’t care for
the barmaid whose “painted toenails
charmed the cavaliers of Cowyard
Creek”... .W.Y.: Appreciated the
feelings of the jockey who swallowed
the horse-dope.... W.W.G.: Concen-
trate on writing something worth
while instead of spreading yourself
over a dozen hackneyed themes like
a climbing creeper S.T.S.: “The
Cyclone” blew itself out after a
couple of pages M.P.S.: “I don’t
want payment for this yarn.” Just
as wefl J.A.H.: Patriotic odes to
Australia beginning
O land of promise in southern seas.
Where ensigns of freedom float on breeze,
fail to register a hit with us
M.McS.: As soon as we can muster
a firing-squad we’ll settle that old
swagman for all time C. 0.8.:
What a riot of polysyllables!


Circulation-surveys and Other Brainwaves
Just Good Clean Fun
By GAVIN CASEY
SOMEBODY once said,
after much thought:
“You don’t have to be
mad in the movie-industry
—but it helps.”
The comment is one of those
that are too good not to be true,
and it might well have been said,
not about Hollywood, but about
the business of producing maga-
zines in Australia, where the job
is generally done by men who
have devoted about half a life-
time to getting out daily news-
papers, and are therefore bitten
by queer bugs of urgency, and
start racing around in circles,
chewing their moustachios, when
there is no real urgency at all.
Many other queer things hap-
pen, such as editorial confer-
ences, which consist of the
devotion of a small amount of
time periodically to trying to
kid the writers on the staff that
they are colleagues, valuable
members of “the team,” and men
whose ideas are respected. This,
the belief seems to be, makes
them happy in their work, eager
to do more of it, and intensely
loyal to the organisation.
Everybody makes suggestions.
Somebody writes them down.
Everybody argues about them.
Away up past the editor it is all
on a first-name level, almost to
the proprietorial peak, if the
proprietor happens to be so un-
happy about the amount of
money the. magazine has been
losing that he attends an editorial
conference.
When a proprietor does
attend, he seldom makes any sug-
gestions himself. He sits around,
looking wise and benign, and
worried. He listens intently, with
what he hopes is an intelligent
expression on his face, and
occasionally nods his head pro-
foundly. When he nods his head
in approval, whoever is speak-
ing begins to stammer slightly
and flushes a bright pink. The
poor mug starts to dream of
better jobs and more pay.
Usually, however, proprietors
don’t attend. They just ring-up
in the middle of the conference
and annoy the editor. Perhaps
the slaves spend an earnest hour
trying to advise the editor on
what should be done to increase
the popularity and quality of
the magazine. The proprietor,
when he rings-up, announces in
less than five minutes what will
be done. But only the editor
hears him, and the conference
goes on.
At its end, flushed with their
own words and the magnificence
of their brainwaves, the mugs
file out, chatting. The editor’s
secretary then collects all the
things that have been written
down, and tears them up. With
a grunt the editor gets back to
work, doing whatever the boss
told him to do. The magazine’s
policy is altered immediately,
but not in conformity with any
suggestion or suggestions made
at the conference. And that’s
that.
Similarly, on magazines, pro-
prietors and high executives
drink ink and tear their hair out
over minor matters of expenses.
I once worked for a boss who,
I was told, would not O.K. any
sum spent on fermented or
spirituous liquors for the enter-
tainment of anybody. This, of
course, led to taxi-fares and
lunch-bills of mammoth pro-
portions, which only made him
discontented because of a lurk-
ing fear that somebody was
deceiving him.
As for myself, I scorned so
obvious a subterfuge. My ex-
pense-accounts were always
thick with such items as “Malted
milk, waffles, honey and banana-
split for Managing Director of
Bullstrode’s Brewery,” and
“Coffee, cream-puffs, sandwiches
and ice-cream for President of
the Thirsty Valley Race Club.”
Whether he accepted these be-
cause he had a sense of humor
as primitive as my own, or be-
cause he wasn’t really as opposed
to noggins in moderation as
many people thought, I’ll never
know. But he passed my fantastic
claims without exception.
On the other hand, the very
man who will cut twopenny-
sections off tram-fares claimed
will spend like a drunken sailor
on certain grandiloquent ideas.
These are generally his own
ideas, or ones he has come to
think of as his, and writers and
photographers get much de luxe
free travel as a result of them.
Quite often, in spite of their
origin, they are good ideas, and
one gets enthusiastic. One does
without sleep, and works the
photographer to a frazzle, and
pours such soul as one possesses
into great volumes of flowing
prose.
Then —nothing happens.
Issues come and issues go, and
other vast and costly expeditions
go out with camera and ball-
point-pen, and pieces of your
own so old you’d forgotten that
you ever wrote them pop up,
and the policy of the magazine
changes a few more times.
But the manuscript into which
all the effort and enthusiasm was
put grows grey and coffee-stained
on somebody’s desk for a while,
and the picture-negatives fade,
and the whole lot eventually dis-
appears into the “too-difficult”
drawer. The boss and his im-
mediate advisers, all active-
minded men, just have too many
ideas for a magazine not as big
as the Encyclopedia Britannica.
It’s their money, anyway, and
paydays come along just the
same.
If the story has been about,
say, the sweet-and-sour goanna-
feasts of the Spinifex Rise
Aboriginal Cooking and Culture
Society, you spend, perhaps, a
year keeping away from Spini-
fex Rise, where half the inhabit-
ants hope week by week to see
their pictures in the magazine,
and would tar-and-feather you if
you paid another visit.
Then, one day so much later
that you are keeping out of
a couple of other places as well,
an advertiser makes a last-minute
cancellation of a double-page
spread. Enjoying to the full the
mad panic that added zest to life
in their- daily-newspaper days,
all the heads and the printers
and the subs sprint around
madly, pulling things out and
putting things in and swearing
at each other like raving lunatics.
The main thing that goes in, of
course, is your year-old story.
You read it . . . sadly.
You don’t know for sure, but
probably the mayor, depicted
with his arm lovingly around his
wife, divorced her six months
back, and has remarried. The
oldest inhabitant, of whom you
made much, is dead for certain.
The comic-character garbage-
man you introduced so gleefully
has most likely been knighted or
hanged by now. The figures you
quoted on the district’s produc-
tion of far-inland dust-oysters
and poles for lamplighters are
now last year’s figures, not this
year’s.
You shiver, and resolve to
keep on keeping away from
Spinifex Rise for a long while
to come.
The policy of the magazine is
altered again, and if such talents
as you have lie in some more-or-
less specialised field now
regarded as of no circulation-
building value, you suddenly
have next to nothing to do. You
loaf a little nervously, because
one day they might wake up to
the fact that they are paying a
man who has had eight lines in
the publication in the past four
months.
But then the policy changes
once more, and before you’ve
even had time to limber-up your
muscles you are doing the work
of three men and a boy.
When you get back from hos-
pital after the inevitable nervous
breakdown, a new lot of what
they call “top-level decisions”
have been made, and in a rather
dazed way you get back to
bashing the typewriter at about
the normal, comfortable and
satisfactory productive-rate at
which a man should work.
What happens next is about as
predictable as Sydney weather —
and there is no Crohamhurst to
“Boss seems a bit liverish this morning."
forecast the climate of magazine-
journalism.
Perhaps it is a circulation-
survey, and if this be so you are
lucky, for circulation-surveys
are good clean fun for writers
and sometimes involve them in
the kind of work that doesn’t
even make them tired. The big-
shots get the ulcers over circu-
lation-surveys.
For a start, probably, an out-
side organisation wholly engaged
in what it believes is reading the
public mind is called in. Im-
pressive-looking, showmanlike
and salesmanlike citizens harass
the editor, and the walls of his
room disappear under charts,
graphs, and racks full of
mysterious cards.
But the real accumulation of
paper is elsewhere, and at this
stage of proceedings the editor
goes grey only a trifle more
rapidly than usual. His troubles
thicken when the go-ahead
firm of Industrial, Commercial,
Educational, Literary, Pictorial
and Deep Sea Surveys, Ltd.,
has formed its conclusions, and
presents them in a few small
truckloads of elaborately bound
and handsomely typed report.
Then the meetings not
editorial conferences, though the
editor, poor brute, is in them
all—come thick and fast. Ad-
vertising - managers, business-
managers, promotion-managers,
production-managers, make-up-
editors, distribution-executives
and so on are the participants,
and voices seem to be raised in
anger from time to time.
You don’t have to stoop to
listening at keyholes to get at
least the tenor of what is going
on. It comes to a head at a final
meeting attended by the pro-
prietor himself, not worrying to
look benign for this occasion.
“Here! ” the proprietor snorts.
“What do these fools mean, that
our section on home-manufac-
ture of horse-blankets and
kangaroo-skin rugs isn’t
popular? My wife reads every
word of it.”
“It’s a wonderful pastime,”
the editor ventures. “But per-
haps we’re ahead of the demand
with it. I think what they mean
is that only a limited number of
intellectuals like your good lady,
sir, are as yet deeply interested
in the tatting, embroidering and
decoration of horse-rugs.”
“Bah! ” says the Big Boss.
“These people don’t know their
business. Never did. Good
mind not to pay ’em.”
“Sir. Sir. Perhaps we should
have used Marine, Submarine,
Sky and Superphonic Surveys,
Ltd., instead, sir,” suggests the
advertising-manager.
“Bah!” says the master of
their destinies, beginning to
sound as though he is in train-
ing for the next Sheep Show.
“They don’t know their business
either. We’ll make our own
survey.”
He glares at the editor. “You,
there. You’ve got this place full
of lazy, useless, boozing, over-
paid journalists. Let ’em earn
their money for a change.”
Thus, in certain cases, it
comes about that great, execu-
tive minds go to work on pre-
paring a questionnaire on the
content of the magazine, and in
due course there is fierce compe-
tition among the writers, now
changed by the supreme com-
mand into a species of overpaid
public-opinion pollsters, as to
which of them shall take these
forms for filling-in to the areas
where there are most pubs.
Simultaneously, the readers
are asked for opinions, and they
respond. While the writers are
producing magnificent, fictional
replies to the questions, and
answering them in a great variety
of different handwritings in
assorted saloon-bars, the readers
are enthusiastically telling the
editor things like:
“I have a young family, and
we like good, clean stuff.
Them young women you has
on the covers should wear
more clothes. We don’t like
smut. It is a good magazine,
but it would be better
without the sugestif stuff. Please
give us more practical articles.
We’d like to build a piano, and
after that an incubator, and my
wife is quite a good carpenter.
Tell us how to do these things,
and cut out the smut.”
As I said, all this is good clean
fun for young and old, and what
conclusions, if any, are reached
don’t matter a bit. The final
analysis of what the reading-
public wants is probably made
when the editor is in hospital,
suffering the inevitable nervous
breakdown —which it is very
wise of him to have before all
the meetings and debates get
going again. But the proprietor,
a rugged type, is well on deck,
and as displeased as he was last
time.
“Here! ”he snorts. “What do
these fools mean, that our page
on how to grow lobsters in win-
dow-boxes isn’t popular? Who
fixed up this collection of non-
sense, anyway?”
What finally happens is that
all the results of the circulation-
surveys are torn-up, or locked in
a room somewhere and for-
fotten, like the things that get
written-down at editorial confer-
ences.
The policy of the magazine
changes once more, but not in
conformity with any opinion
expressed in any survey.
It changes in conformity with
the latest big idea the boss has
had, or thinks he has had. The
only circulation - survey that
would ever please him would be
one that confirmed all his own
beliefs.
The deity of that particular
magazine has lost his faith in
circulation-surveys, carried out
by dolts, fools and boozing
journalists among people who
don’t really know what they
want to read, or what’s good for
them, either. He will have no
more for several years, until
time has reduced the pain of
this unfortunate experience. He
will rely on his wife, and his
friends, and his own highly
developed, super-sensitive judg-
ment. He probably sacks a
writer, an executive or two, or
even a copy-boy, just to show
them that they can’t fool him.
To boost circulation he goes
in for what he has always
believed to be the answer —a
series of spectacular and at the
same time subtle competitions.
Such as a picture of a tennis-
player leaping to return a ball,
the ball not being visible in the
reproduction. For the £25,000
prize you not only have to locate
the position of the ball in the
original but must estimate
whether the player has left his
hat in the dressing-room or has
thrown it at a line-umpire in a
fit of temperament, and, if the
latter, how long ago and over
what decision he became upset.
The competitions draw in a
great readership, but, unfor-
tunately, only in such weeks as
the boss is willing to offer a
£25,000 prize. This finally dis-
courages him again, and he
changes the policy. He makes it
a fiction-magazine, and sacks the
staff, or he makes it a wholly
factual staff-written magazine
and abandons the contributors.
Fortunately, only most, not
all, Australian periodicals are
run this way.
The ones that are not belong
to people who have realised that
it is easy to get readers, but hard
to keep them—-and that the only
way you do keep them is by
presenting, issue after issue, read-
able, amusing and informative
material, guaranteed to be worth
what it costs at the bookstall.
For those you don’t have to
be mad, and it doesn’t even help,
unless you can manage to be
amusingly crazy instead of
merely driven to inefficient
suicide-attempts and to scream-
ing in the night by an environ-
ment too full of editorial-
conferences and circulation-
surveys.


frmyti
£
V?
Si:.
H
:'i i' i*^
HM
\
:f>- vc^
U v,, \ \ W.
SMllMiilffittiffi^^
m
7
mmm
*?m ' ** 3 i
Nuffield Universal Tractor, equipped with hydraulically operated
front-end. loader and 6-ft. dozer blade, shown clearing farm land.
The tractor illustrated is the Nuftield M 4 (kerosene-powered)
with 13.50 x 24 rear tyres fitted to heavy-duty cast wheel centres
(making wheel weights unnecessary).
This model tractor, costing only £1,015/18/- (Capital City), in-
cludes the following standard equipment: Hydraulic lift, 3-point
linkage, p.t.o. belt pulley, drawbar, drawbar extension, seat
cushion, canvas tractor cover, electric starter and horn, headlight,
agricultural rear light, tail and side lights, heat gauge, hour meter,
foot plates, chaff screens and radiator shutters. (Alternate magneto
ignition can be supplied at slightly extra cost.)
Other tyre sizes available: 11 x 36R, 6.00 x 19F; 13 x 26R, 6.00 x
16F; 14 x 30R, 7.50 x 18F; 11 x 36 Dual Rear, 6.00 x 19F. (Tractor,
when fitted with these alternative sizes, varies accordingly in price.)
Ask your Authorised Nuffield Dealer for full particulars of all
models and matched implements.
Tractor & Implement Division, Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
Box 73, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor Range and
“Approved-After-Test” Matched Implements.
NAME
ADDRESS,
Place X in this square if for school project.
C. 4
NUFFIELD (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR
CORPORATION (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
NT.33.32
BMC I
NUFFIELD
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Dealers Everywhere
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
DIGESTIVE TROUBLES
COLITIS, DIVERTICULITIS
TAKE CHERBA TABLETS
Specially prepared from an old
proven herbal recipe. For chrome
conditions. Postal note for 12/6 will
provide one month’s treatment.
ALLAN MURRAY PTY. LTD.,
I Maloney St., Mascot.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Twelve months ago Persian
Link was taken to Brisbane for
the Doomben Ten Thousand and
Cup, and ran fourth in both.
He went on the same mission
this year, was again fourth in
the Ten Thousand and then
cleared out with the Doomben
Cup, beating Hutton and Clever
Beau .in 2.13 - for the 11 furlongs
less 22yds., which equalled the
race-record held by Dark Marne
(1947) and Rio Fe (1949). It
was Persian Link’s first success
for about six months.
Blue Lagoon, winner of the
V. Grand National Steeple-
chase from Bold Flare and The
Drum, is by Tuhitarata. Blue
Lagoon’s dam, Awatea, was got
by Friarsdale from Cyfrac by
Cyklon (imp.). The winner’s
staying pedigree had quite a lot
to do with the win. He was
foaled in 1945, and this was the
best win of his career, though he
beat a field of moderates. In
other days the handicapper was
tough on the best jumpers, as
instanced by the 13.1 carried to
first place by Sussex and the 13.3
carried by Redleap when he won
under the amateur horseman
Mr. W. S. Cox. Redleap also
won the G.N. Hurdle that year
(1892) with 11.12, ridden by Mr.
Cox, who three years earlier had
won on Redleap with 9.8. The
W. S. Cox Plate is named after
that splendid horseman.
Friendless in betting at 100 to
1, Fair Chief started from 35
barrier position for the Lawn
Handicap at Flemington for
which there were 35 acceptors,
and won. His form had been
poor. Acceptance of such a
huge field is possible at Fleming-
ton, which can carry big fields.
But when such a field is coming
up the straight it’s a bit too
confusing to watch. Even
broadcasters have difficulty in
picking the leaders until the last
furlong.
Gay Sailor improved on prior
form to win the Flemington
First Two-year-old Mile, and a
look over his pedigree indicates
he could be one of the good
three-year-old stayers of the
new season. His relatives in-
clude Johnnie Jason, a winner
of the Sydney Cup and the
V.R.C. Derby, Royal Gem
(Caulfield Cup) and Beau Gem
(V.R.C. Derby and Adelaide St.
Leger), and he has the back-
ground of a stayer. His sire,
Merry Cavalier, won to 1| mile.
Merry Cavalier’s sire was un-
beaten Nearco. Beau Revoir,
dam of Gay Sailor, is a daughter
of Beaupartir and Sweet Silvius
by Silvius (imp.).
After a stylish win in Novice
company at Randwick on June
1, the two-year-old filly Lady
Bibette was switched to Mel-
bourne and won at the Moonee
Valley mid-week fixture a week
ago. She is by Lord Nearco
(imp.) from Bibette by Andrea
(imp.) from Chaos by Excite-
ment (imp.) and was bred in
Queensland.
» • * *
Most interesting winner at
Sydney’s Canterbury was Jaseur,
a two-year-old brother of Shan-
non, greatest stakes’ winner of
the Australian Turf (£84,648),
though upwards of £65,000 of it
was earned in America. Jaseur
earned a £6lB stake for his open-
ing win in the Second Two-Year-
Old Maiden for colts and geld-
ings—a small contribution to his
initial cost of 3800gns. as a year-
ling He is raced by Malcolm
Campbell, and is a chestnut colt
by Midstream (imp.) from Idle
Words by Magpie (imp.) from
Peptamint by Finland.
Mestre, winner of Canterbury
Park Maiden Two-year-old for
fillies, is one of the first of the
progeny of the French sire,
Marco Polo 11, to win in Syd-
ney. Trained at Randwick by
McCarten for A. W. Lambell,
Mestre had a comfortable win
over the favorite, Krubi, who
found her 8.12 too much. Marco
Polo II (No. 1 family) is located
at a New Zealand stud. Winner
of races from one to two miles
in England, his oldest stock are
two-year-olds. His half-brother,
My Babu, had 11 wins for
£29,830, while another half-
brother, Sayani, won 10 races
and was champion French sire
of 1953. Le Pacha, sire of Marco
Polo 11, was a champion of his
time. He won nine races from
11 starts.
Royal Ascot will see the rich
King George VI and Queen
Elizabeth Stakes on Saturday.
It is England’s richest weight-
for-age race, is run over
mile, and the winner’s share of
the £27,800 will be £23,630.
Acceptors include Madame
Suzy Vol terra’s crack three-
year-old colt Phil Drake, winner
of the English Derby and the
French Grand Prix de Paris.
Among older horses, who have
to concede a stone to the three-
year-olds, are Zarathustra (Irish
Derby and St. Leger winner of
last year), Darius (third in the
English Derby and this same
race in 1954) and Narrator
(winner of the Champion Stakes
and the Coronation Cup).
An easy winner of a Hawkes-
bury Two-year-old Maiden,
Atlantic Sun was bred at Tarwyn
Park Stud, Penrith (N.S.W.), and
comes from the same family as
Melbourne Cup winners Lord
Cardigan, Lord Nolan, and Rain-
bird. He is by Transatlantic
(imp.) from White Crystal by
Marconigram (imp.), and traces
back to Spearmint (son of
Carbine).
In 1951 Lord Forrest brought
4200gns. as a yearling. Sub-
sequently he won races up to
\\ mile, including the Rosehill
Christmas Cup, but was not the
success expected. In the same
sale-ring last week he was sold
as a stallion for 475gn5., a bit
of a difference from his first cost.
However, he is a handsome horse
and is bred the right way, being
by Delville Wood (imp.) from
High Class, a sister to Talking
by Magpie (imp.).
Winterset, a champion ’chaser
of about 10 years ago, died while
resting in a paddock near
Deloraine (Tasmania) a couple
of weeks ago at the age of 19.
Among races he won were the
Great Eastern Steeplechase
(1945) with 12.10. In most of
his engagements over fences he
seldom carried less than 12st.,
and mostly had about 12.10.
Stakes won totalled £11,035. The
Feline’s £15,520 is the Australian
record for a jumper, but New
Zealand’s best, Brookby Song,
earned £17,260.
* * *
Casanova, N.Z. trotting-
sire now resident in N.S.W.,
may be in for a boost from a
four - year - old son. Grand
Archer. A likely-looking chest-
nut, Grand Archer won his first
race at Richmond (N.S.W.), and
last Saturday he took out his
second on the same course. A
bad “lugger,” he is suited by
Richmond, which, unlike most
trot-courses, races clockwise, as
the gallopers do in N.S.W. If this
fellow can be convinced that
one way’s as good as another,
he’ll score many a win.
« • * •
An even worse lugger (horse
that carries its head to one side
and so is being driven on one
rein) was Brilliant Moon. This
Black Panther horse also appre-
ciated the Richmond course in
his early racing, but later
appeared to have got over his
waywardness. At the Menangle
fixture recently he was sent out
at odds-on, and was unplaced.
Again lugging had been his
downfall.
+ +
The Australian Soccer team
tried hard against the Austrian
Rapids at Sydney Sportsground
on Saturday, but was not good
enough. Our men bad no
answer to the tricks and flicks,
ball-control, snap passes and
complete understanding of the
Austrians. Leading 3-1 at half-
time, Rapid added two goals
in the first five minutes after the
interval, and thereafter coasted
along to make it 6 to 2.
* * *
Collingwood, in two succes-
sive games, met two tough nuts.
With a mighty effort and some
luck they cracked Melbourne,
but the second nut, Footscray,
encountered on Saturday, was
too tough. The Magpies raced
to a 4.2-0.2 lead at the first
change, were still in front by
nine points at threequarter-time,
but then ’Scray slapped on a
couple to make it 5.13 to 5.7
the low scores a tribute to both
defences. Melbourne over-
whelmed St. Kilda, 17.16-3.3,
and Geelong, moving into
second - place, overpowered
South, 15.19-13.10, after it had
been level-pegging almost all
the way. Essendon had an easy
win over Richmond, 14.7-5.20,
largely because of the Tigers’
poor kicking in a stiff cross-
wind ; at one stage' Richmond
were 1.17! Carlton were too
good for North, 16.9-13.10, the
Blues’ first win after seven
consecutive losses, and Haw-
thorn decimated Fitzroy, which
has wilted badly, 18.12-9.5.
H 5 4’
In a blast at our “babes of the
Wimbledon woods,” an English
scribe urged a “Keith Miller
devil-may-care attitude” on the
centre-court. What, ’it mookin’
sixers into the gallery, choom!
* * *
“C.A.A.”: The great Aus-
tralian allrounder Keith Miller
can now claim to be the best-
ever. End of the Indies tour saw
Miller’s Test aggregates go to
2706 runs and 147 wickets, beat-
ing the long-established Wilfred
Rhodes tally of 2325 runs and
127 wickets.
< • • •
“Keima”: The cricketing
Harvey brothers have a hockey
parallel. Four Harveys have
played for Victoria, and two
have played for Australia. The
W.A. hockey team, at present in
Brisbane for the National titles,
has four Pearce brothers, Eric,
Gordon, Brian and Mel. Eric
and Mel have repped for
Australia.
* * *
“ Moorapi ” : Luxemburg’s
muster for this year’s cycling
Tour de France included two
Aussies —Russell Mockridge and
John Beasley. Mockridge has
been a pro. since winning the
open Grand Prix de Paris two
years ago.
* He He..
The French Rugby League-
sters took the knock from New-
castle (N.S.W.), being down
14-nil at half-time, then recover-
ing somewhat to make it 17-15
for the Coal City boys.
H= * He
Peter Thomson held his
British Open on the Old Course
at St. Andrew’s (Scot.) with a
four-round record 281. His
followers nearly fainted when he
bunkered badly at the 14th in
the final round, but the 25-year-
old automaton coolly shot a
birdie on the next and came in
two strokes ahead of the field.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
No. 3032 of 1954.
TO NORMAN WILLIAM BROWN late of
Trundle.—TAKE NOTICE that JOY
FRANCES BROWN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3032 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 19th day of August 1955 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS
& CO., Solicitors, 18-20 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO SYLVIA HAZEL MILLS late of 86
Duncan Street Maroubra.—TAKE NOTICE
that VINCENT EDWARD MILLS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1021 of
1955 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 9th day of September
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. A. J.
McLACHLAN, HOARE & CO., Solicitors,
of 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
r '
I WANT
Disgusted! Fed up! That’s me! What do they think
a man is? If I can’t have the best clothes, I won t
have any. I want Stamina.
It isn’t as though Stamina clothes ate expensive,
either. They cost much less than you’d think and
the quality is better than you’d have any right to expect
... pure wool Crusader cloth; a perfect fit fit you
like a glove, they do, and they’re just as comfortable—
Strong, too! In Stamina, a man can rough around a
whole lot without worrying at all about his clothes.
Those Stamina people guarantee their
clothes ... they guarantee they’re made
from pure wool cloth, guarantee they’ll
give you years of hard wear, guarantee
they’ll never fade or shrink. Like I
said all along... I want Stamina!
ASK FOR
CLOTHES
Stamina.
KN/CKBRS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
8W4.113
Malayan Comparisons
Our Northern Colony
By JOHN GILMORE
PROGRESSIVE New
Guinea planting-
companies are sending
senior field-men to Cey-
lon, Malaya and Indonesia to
gather experience from the older
copra- and rubber - industries
there, but, with planting condi-
tions in Australia’s northern
colony considerably different,
much of what is learnt will be
inapplicable for many years yet.
I went from Papua to Malaya.
Immediately are seen striking
differences in the two vitals of
tropical primary production—
labor and transport.
From the port, we sped along
250 miles of bitumen in the
armored sedan of the English
estate-manager memories were
hard with me of the almost com-
plete lack of made roads in the
Territory I had left.
“Labor? Yes, we are a little
short at present. It’s a time of
native festivities you have
them?”
“A Papuan’s Christmas,” ' I
said, “stretches from October to
about March.”
“Quite so. My clerks lodged
advertisements with the local
papers—boys should turn-up this
week.”
Adverting for labor! Native
clerks in plantation-offices ; local,
papers. « The only literate on a
Papua/New Guinea plantation
is the manager ; and advertising
for labor is rather different from
recruiting-trips in tossing charter-
boats in the Islands, or tramp-
ing in the headwaters of the Tufi
for three or four weeks to bring
out 30 primitives. Then, the
months of patient training . . .
Weight of invested capital
which brought railways and
trunk-roads early to Malaya has
never been felt in P./N.G.; our
country, too, is so much more
difficult topographically. In the
air, of course, P./N.G. has noth-
ing to learn from the Federated
Malay States.
The coconut-estate where I
was a guest was one of the
world’s best, 4000 acres of
highly-cultivated mature palms,
lush with leguminous ground-
covers, yielding over a ton of
dried copra per acre annually.
P./N.G. has plenty of areas
under coconuts to compare with
this production, but our general
figure would be lower. Our
planters suffer a legacy of early
lack of capital and agricultural
know-how. Badly-sited sections
of estates, which should never
have been planted, and yield
from which is poor, bring over-
all figures down. With rubber,
similar sad inheritances are
encountered.
Sizes of our estates are smaller
than in Malaya, with its average
4000 acres tended by a manager,
two or three European assistants
and 300 to 350 laborers.
The P./N.G. counterpart is a
third that size, employing one
Australian manager and up to
100 boys.
Again, lack of capital made
early planters think small, and
insufficient attention was paid
to future requirements, so that
enlargemant of plantations is
now often difficult owing to lack
of suitable near-by land. Open-
ing up entirely new estates is
vastly more expensive than
enlarging existing ones.
Upkeep of young palms
approaching maturity, mainten-
ance of bearing-areas, meticulous
replanting of gaps caused by
lightning, wind, pests and
diseases, were all as practised in
Papua since the war.
P./N.G.’s actual production-
costs of copra and rubber shade
Malaya’s. Also, interplanting of
coconut-palms with a secondary
crop of cacao or coffee was neg-
ligible in Malaya, because of the
high watertable under most
Malayan estates, which hug the
coast. Neither of these two
crops, of increasing importance
in P./N.G. economy, tolerates
“wet feet.” In research and
thrifty production of cacao par-
ticularly, P./N.G. owes nothing
to Ihe world of tropical agricul-
ture.
Tall, sharp sword-grass, our
sun-loving kunai (“lalang” to
Malayan colleagues), ravenous of
soil-content, is the greatest pest
in all tropical parts. Methods of
control are identical in P./N.G.
and Malaya. Establishment of
pueraria, centrosema and other
mixed legumes, aided by seas-
onal harrowing with tractor-
drawn implements, chokes it out
biologically. Occasionally sprays
to inhibit its growth assist. Rich,
green mulch goes in under the
blades at the same time, with care
to avoid severing tender feeding-
tips of the shallowly-rooted palms.
This is the only economic
method of fertilising large areas
on plantations, though in Ceylon
senile trees sometimes have their
useful life prolonged with arti-
ficial mixtures.
Copra-drying methods are
similar; P./N.G. hot-air driers,
mechanical driers, oil-expressing
and desiccated-coconut set-ups
are on a par with those of the
F.M.S., and, with present Gov-
ernment ordinances on quality,
our raw copra is a finer product,
if anything.
Heavier and better-distributed
rainfall spares the P./N.G.
planter the expense of picking,
a wide practice in F.M.S., where
nuts will not fall in continued
dry weather.
The tiny Papuan rubber-
industry is dwarfed by the
Malayan; a sixth of British
Commonwealth dollar-revenue
stems from the natural-rubber
producers of the F.M.S. Rubber-
estates there are huge by our
standards, often including planta-
tion laboratories working on
research under direction of the
Rubber Research Institute of
Malaya, a body financed by a
levy on produce and by British
grants.
Over the years this organisa-
tion has enormously improved
planting - materials, working -
methods and every aspect of
natural-rubber production.
Papuan producers and the
P./N.G. Administration have
done a good deal to bring ours
into line, but much remains to
be done, particularly in improve-
ment of factory-methods to pro-
duce finer crepe-rubber, which
sells at a premium.
Marketing of raw latex is
another avenue open to Papua;
this was produced there in a
crude way under emergency
conditions during the war, but
nothing has since been done
with it.
Field-records are painstakingly
kept by the Malayan estate-
manager, with assistance of
Chinese, Malay or Indian clerks.
There, one may say, “Go down
to Section ‘A,’ Row 412, Palm
No. 31, and treat it for rhino-
beetle.” P./N.G. planters would
probably refer to “the leaning
palm-tree by the big stump where
you cross the Western Creek.”
I saw attractive areas of dwarf
palms which were said to yield
a ton-and-a-quarter of copra per
acre, a very good figure indeed.
Experiments with the breeding
of these half-size trees were car-
ried out at the Government
Research Station outside Rabaul
pre-war, but the Japs cut our
little plantations out to grow
food-crops. The dwarf is now
being reintroduced —a doubt-
ful departure. Its nuts are
smaller, though yield is heavier
and earlier. Economic life of the
palms is shorter than that of the
familiar “tails,” and the dwarf
is more sensitive to climatic
change, flooding and other
seasonal variables. Smaller nuts,
too, cost more to handle. Earlier-
bearing, however, makes selec-
tion and breeding of heavier-
yielding disease-resistant types
easier with this variety.
F.M.S. estate-managers enjoy
the services of sophisticated
Chinese and Tamil contractors.
The aative Malay resembles our
average “boy” and is seldom
employed and rarely desires to
be. Our natives are free from
awareness of economic values as
yet, having their own traditional
village-income and no real com-
pulsion to work; they are
naturally torpid, and their lack
of ability to shoulder responsi-
bility is the main cause of
retarded native development of
P./N.G. Spread of knowledge
may alter our natives’ outlook,
but it will be a lengthy process;
increasing population-pressure
and discarding of tribal associ-
ations will change them more
directly.
Paying contract-rates for prac-
tically everything —wisely, as yet,
illegal in our own Australian
colony Malayan plantation-
managers become businessmen
operating from their offices.
Building-erection, picking and
gathering nuts, transporting
dried copra—there are contracts
for everything, concluded to the
satisfaction of the Englishmen
before payment is made.
Contract-work is particularly
useful with rubber-tappers
where the element of skill of
individuals is important for
higher yields of latex and preser-
vation of assets in the shape of
consumable bark. A good tapper
takes a couple of years to train,
and I sadly recalled experiences
with Papuan Highland natives
—only reservoir for tapping-
labor for many Papuan rubber-
planters—who left rubber-trees
(Continued on page 34)


y*.
m
Sis
y'.ysK
,pT
»
gsmjSs
>: ’ :
iM#
yyiyyfty
For £B5O plus tax Holden gives
the best combination of power,
economy, durability, value
AND Holden is the
only utility made-to-
order for Australia
Only Holden offers this
unique combination of advan-
tages. And the reason is that
Holden is the only utility
designed and built for
Australia.
★ 6 cylinder square engine
power ★ 21 h.p. performance
★ 30 m.p.g. economy and out-
standing dependability as re-
ported by many owners, ★
Generous payload area—length
on floor 75 1"; max. width at
front 56!" it Roomy 3 seater
cabin ★ Nation-wide service;
ready availability of low-cost,
factory guaranteed parts .
★ Convenient G.M.A.C. hire pur-
chase available. • Air Chief is the
GMH car radio.
Compare and you’ll find that you get more
for your money with Holden than any
other utility. Moreover, high resale value
r makes it a great long-term investment.
Holden utility is designed and built for
Australia and has earned the admiration of owners
throughout Australia. These facts together with
better value have made Holden three times as
popular as any other utility.
Some idea of Holden owner satisfaction is
given by Mr. J. R. Brennan of Ascot Park,
Adelaide: “In the course of my Grocery pick-ups
and deliveries I have covered 50,000 miles. The
districts over which I travel have a fair percentage
of made and unmade roads, some of which are
particularly bad in the new districts. In spite of
this the ‘Holden ’ has performed magnificently . . .
The amazing thing is Petrol Consumption, which
on a rigid test recently showed 33 'tiles per gallon.”
The Holden Utility is in very heavy demand and
may we suggest that you see your Holden Dealer
and place an order as soon as possible.
HOLDEN*
Australia’s Own Utility
LIST PRICES FROM £B7O PLUS SALES TAX
* REGISTERED TRADE MARK
AUSTRALIA’S OWN PANEL VAN, LIST PRICE £865 PLUS TAX
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia
Between
Ourselves
\Vi
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way 10 keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories m
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TALKS AT THE SUMMIT
THE conference between Sir
Anthony Eden, President
Eisenhower, French Premier
Pinay and the Russian leaders is
scheduled to begin at Geneva
next Monday. The last con-
ference between the Powers at
Geneva more-or-less settled the
unhappy fate of Indo-China and
was something less than an
advance from the Allied point
of view; as the following
typical press-comment indicates,
the West would now seem to be
in a slightly better bargaining-
position than it was at the
previous meeting:
“New York Times” editorial
comment: “The new effort [for
peace] has been made possible
by the implementation of the
Paris pacts which consolidated
the Western-alliance system and
gave the West a position of
strength that prompted the
Soviets to change their tactics.
In a reversal of previous posi-
tions that begins to look like a
flight from Stalinism, they have
accepted and ratified the
Austrian independence treaty,
have made peace with Yugo-
slavia and are trying to make
peace with Japan and even
Western Germany.
“They have thereby met the
first conditions for new negotia-
tions and have adopted —out-
wardly, at least —a more civilised
attitude that is beginning to
thaw the frozen cold-war fronts.
“There is, however, no indica-
tion that they have also changed
their goal of a Communist
world, and all American leaders,
including President Eisenhower
and General Gruenther, warn
against any such assumption.
This means that the West must
not only remain strong but must
also remain on guard against
new Communist surprises in the
shape of either new military
adventures on the periphery, or
new political ventures to split
the West, as in the overtures to
Chancellor Adenauer.
“But the new tactics do
suggest that for either foreign or
domestic reasons the Soviets,
perhaps even Communist China,
are now ready for more serious
negotiations than in the past. It
may be premature to envisage
a new dawn of peace, but the
possibility for it must be
explored.”
* * *
“New York Times” {Sunday)
editorial comment: “The fact
that confronts the Western
statesmen is that the Soviet
front still rests on the military
lines established during and after
the war, and that, despite all of
Moscow’s conciliatory gestures,
it shows no signs of yielding.
“On the contrary, as shown by
the Soviet efforts to neutralise
Germany and by the Soviet
peace-terms for Japan, the
Kremlin remains on the aggres-
sive and continues to pursue the
objective that has long been its
goal—namely, to break-up the
Western-alliance system and to
expel the United States from
both Europe and Asia, as a first
step toward the subjugation of
both continents. Even where,
as in Austria, it appears to
yield for a price, it does so only
to promote the larger design.”
Roscoe Drummond, in New
York “Herald Tribune” : “What
the summit conference will try to
do is to agree on which cold-
war issues can possibly be
resolved in the visible future, to
try to remove some of the
barriers which have precluded
settlement, and to lay down
diplomatic procedures * which
will be followed to carry
negotiations forward.”
The same: “The dominant
view which I find at the White
House and the State Department
is on the side that Moscow’s
apparently shifting policy comes
from a combination of Western
strength and difficulties inside
and outside the Soviet Union.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune”
editorial comment: “He [Presi-
dent Eisenhower] spoke of the
forthcoming conference as
‘only a beginning in a renewed
effort that may last a genera-
tion’ ; he warned against
‘fatuous expectations’ that the
long-standing ills of the world
‘can be miraculously cured by a
single meeting.’ More pointedly,
he called for stern determination
that America must not lower its
guard ‘merely because a per-
sistent foe may assume a smiling
face and a soft voice.’ ”
• • • •
The same: “The immediate
test of diplomacy may be said
to be its capacity to square the
thinking and plans of men with
the realities of the new thermo-
nuclear weapons. It is, quite
simply, to make war as unlikely
in fact as it is inconceivable in
theory. Beyond that there will
remain positions that cannot be
compromised or bartered away.
The rivalries and ideologies of
the world will certainly- not be
abolished, but they may be put
within a framework which
allows them to be struggled over
by means short/ of the kind of
war that would destroy
civilisation.”
* * *
O. H. Brandon, in London
“Sunday Times”: “He [U.S.
Secretary of State Dulles] is
hopeful about the forthcoming
talks because there is a growing
feeling here [Washington] that
Russia has serious internal
troubles, that she has over-
extended herself and cannot at
the same time raise output at
home and also satisfy the
demands of China and the
satellites. Experts differ as to
whether, as a consequence, the
Russians will want the Big-Four
—London “Daily Mirror”
TO THE SUMMIT?
talks to succeed and present
genuine proposals, or will want
the conference to fail so as to
reserve the boldest proposals for
direct talks with West
■ Germany.”
* * *
London “Daily Express”:
“Germany is bound to part
company with the West. Sooner
or later she will turn east
towards Russia. For that is
where the bidding will be
highest.
“The Americans have already
given to Germany all that Ger-
many wants. Their dollars
have rebuilt her factories. Their
diplomacy has re-created her
army. Finally, even her
sovereignty has been restored.
“The Russians, who all this
time have given nothing, are
now left with much more to
offer.
“It is the same in the Far
East. Japan, the beaten enemy,
has been transformed by the
Americans. And the outcome is
that the Reds could now outbid
the Americans there, too.
“It is a lamentable sequel.
But the facts on both sides of
the globe are plain.”
* * *
Drew Middleton, in “New
York Times”: “The reaction of
France to a firm Russian offer
of German neutrality and unifi-
cation inevitably will be mixed.
Some Frenchmen have opposed
any moves toward German unity
from the outset of the
occupation.
“On the other hand, the idea
of German neutrality enforced
by guarantees from East and
West will have considerable
appeal to France. For it will
appear to remove the danger
that L 'the Western Powers might
be led into a crusade for the
recovery of Germany’s eastern
provinces by a militant Federal
Republic under a Chancellor less
pacific than Dr. Adenauer.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“The general aims of Soviet
foreign policy remain un-
changed. High on the list of
aims are: recognition, implied
or acknowledged, of Russia’s
domination of Eastern Europe ;
the admission of Communist
China to the United Nations;
the withdrawal of American
forces from Europe ; the detach-
ment of Western Germany and
Japan from exclusive associa-
tion with the Western Powers;
the accentuation of all possible
differences between Europe and
America.
“Real evidence of Soviet
Russia’s ‘conversion,’ or at least
of her leaders’ anxiety to avoid
an outbreak of war, are best
sought, not in diplomatic
gestures, but in the weaknesses
of her internal structure. The
burdens imposed by the tasks of
maintaining the biggest Army in
the world, of striving to equal
the West in industrial potential,
of feeding a growing population
and of contributing adequately
to China’s industrialisation are
the real pressures which, added
to the West’s strength and unity,
account for Moscow’s more
reasonable attitude.
“If the group of men who are
now jointly and uneasily wearing
Stalin’s mantle are to solve these
problems they need time. To
gain that in the international field
they want talks, talks and more
talks. And it is talks, on dis-
armament, on atomic energy,
on Germany, on China, that
will be the most obvious result
of Geneva.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “The
five main elements in present
Soviet tactics may be listed as:
conciliatory gestures ; an accom-
paniment of conditional threats;
explicit and far-reaching
demands ; stubborn evasions on
vital points; and multiple varia-
tions on the theme of neutralism.
The first three, taken together,
amount to a demand that the
free nations must now make a
choice —a choice between a
detente on terms that would
cripple both their defence and
their bargaining-power, and a
new competition in strength
which, Moscow claims, will
destroy them. Western eyes,
fascinated by the one concilia-
tory side of this diplomatic
pentagon, have still to be fully
opened to the other four.”
* * *
Edward Crankshaw, in Lon-
don “Observer”: “The present
leaders of the Soviet Union have
plainly come to some interesting


What you should
know about
mental illness
What is this tragic ailment;
why does it strike? How do
doctors treat it; how much
chance is there of recovery?
July Reader’s Digest brings
you facts about the illness
that hospitalizes more people
than all other diseases com-
bined, and a report on new
medical advances against it.
You’ll find a wealth of
stimulating articles in July
Reader’s Digest, including
“Are you a delinquent
parent?”, “How to grow old
and like it,” plus a 20-page
book condensation of the
thrilling Everest epic “Tiger
of the Snows.” On sale now—
-1/6 all newsagents, bookstalls.
/ti FAS/M
TO
m
K
: : :
SSi
A brilliant flash of “sunlight” is at your command with the
Kodak FLASHOLDER
Wj
m
model 2
The new Kodak Flasholder, usable with Kodak
and most other cameras, brings you the fun
of "flashsnapping"—the craze that is sweeping
England and America. With the Flasholder
you can get pictures you'd never have
attempted before—brilliant snaps of intimate
family life, parties, social occasions, fine pictures
on dull days or at night.
Price for Flasholder ................. £2/10/*
Bulbs Fittings for
from 1/4 flash-synchro, cameras
19/3
FROM YOUR KODAK DEALER
Kodak (Australasia) Pty. Ltd., Branches In all States.
and useful conclusions. As
examples: (1) That, haying
regard to China, the pretensions
of the Soviet Union to dominate
a Communist world were un-
soundly based —a discovery that
perhaps made it easier for
Moscow to come to an accom-
modation with Belgrade; (2)
that another global war can do
the Soviet Union no good; (3)
that the long-range bomber, the
rocket and the hydrogen-bomb
between them have rendered
obsolete the military set-up in
Europe for which Stalin strove
so laboriously and at such
cost.”
* * *
“U.S. News and World
Report”: “The first [Russian]
move & to put over the idea of
’peaceful coexistence’ as a
means of soothing the nerves of
people in Europe who have
been through 10 years of war-
jitters^—Communist-inspired, for
the most part.
“Once the peace idea takes
hold, then the Russians will
expect to get concessions from
the West, breaking-down the
barriers that have been raised
against trade in strategic
supplies. Those barriers have
been more effective than the
Communists are willing to admit.
The Soviet world is almost
starving for goods of all kinds,
particularly for machine-tools
and heavy machinery with
which to raise levels of produc-
tion behind the Iron Curtain.
“Russia’s second move, flow-
ing out of the first, is to
encourage the idea that U.S.
troops ought to leave Europe
and Asia. That was a primary
factor in the Austrian peace
settlement. It is a major element
in Soviet talks with the Japanese.
If the Russians can get Ameri-
can troops withdrawn, the
balance of power will tend to
swing to the Communist side.
This will be particularly true if
the U.S. should pull out before
the Germans get an Army.”
Those Freight-rises
In the view of London “Times
Review of Industry,” “it is
understandable that the pro-
posed freight - increases on
cargoes shipped to and from
Australia and New Zealand
should be causing concern
among Government and busi-
ness circles in those two
countries.”
“In Australia, particularly,”
the paper adds, “where manu-
facturers are faced with con-
stantly rising costs of produc-
tion, and exporters, for the same
reason, are finding it hard to
maintain their level of trade in
competition with other lower-
cost producers, the proposed
increase in freights may well
appear to be the last straw.
“An examination of the case
put forward by the shipping
conferences concerned leaves no
doubt, however, that not only
are the increases justified but
that the suggested new rates are
the lowest that can reasonably
be expected.
“The reason for the bigger
increase on the Australian routes
is because they have been less
remunerative than the New
Zealand trade. The shipowners
rightly point out that even with
the addition of the higher rates
freights will not have advanced
nearly as much as their own
operating costs have risen in
recent years, especially as it has
become necessary to replace
older vessels.
“One of the main difficulties in
trade to and from Australia is
the slow turn-round of ships in
the ports, a problem caused
partly by the unreliability of
dock-labor and partly by the
fact that little has been done
since the war to improve dock-
facilities, though the demand on
them has grown enormously;
here is a field in which the Aus-
tralian Government needs to
take drastic action.
“What effects will the new
rates have on Britain? So far
as imports are concerned the
effects would appear to be slight.
Exports could be affected —par-
ticularly if higher freights are
followed by increased tariffs on
British goods—though it is
significant that none of the
interests immediately concerned
(the motor-industry, for example)
has registered even a formal
protest.”
Freedom of the Press
In June, 1855, the British
Parliament removed the last
official obstacle against the free-
dom of the press —the stamp-
duty. Noting the centenary of
that event, both British and
American papers agreed, in
effect, that respect by the press
for its freedom is as important
as the freedom itself.
Typical comment:
“New York Times” : “Here in
the United States we take this
precious liberty for granted,
although like all liberties it
demands ‘eternal vigilance.’ Our
worries, however, are incidental
and accidental. An order will be
issued by a Government depart-
ment curtailing the freedom to
report some specific subject or
some category of news, and gen-
erally the resulting uproar results
in the order being rescinded. The
basic right to a free press is
never questioned in long-estab-
lished democracies.”
* * *
London “Times” (reviewing
the annual report of the Com-
monwealth Press Union) : “If the
number of countries in which
the press is free from Govern-
mental control has remained the
same, none the less ‘nowhere
should freedom to speak and to
print be assumed to be com-
pletely secure.’ Even within the
Commonwealth there have been
‘more or less disturbing inci-
dents’ in Australia, India, Paki-
stan, Kenya, Singapore, South-
ern Rhodesia, Uganda, Zanzi-
bar, Cyprus, and Hong Kong.
“Sometimes freedom is
directly assaulted, more often it
is nibbled at piecemeal with some
specious show of reason or pub-
lic interest. The truth which has
to be constantly reasserted is that
there is a still higher public in-
terest in the people being sure
that the consent they give to acts
of government derives from a
confidence that they have been
correctly informed of the issues
and the facts.”
The same: “Much more dis-
turbing than the encroachments
on press freedom is the growing
public apathy towards them.
Often there is a feeling that prob-
ably authority is right and there
are good and adequate reasons
for what is being done. It is easy
to point to this as a weakening
of the democratic instinct; more
often it arises from the weakness
of the press itself.”
* * *
London “Spectator” : “It does
not require malice aforethought
for the State to curb the activi-
ties of the press as they are being
curbed. An increasing area of
the community’s life is being
fenced in behind a variety of
‘Keep Off’ notices, the pretexts
ranging from ‘national security’
to ‘l’m only a poor bureaucrat,
old boy, don’t blame me, but it
would be as much as my job’s
worth to tell you: why don’t
you go to our press-officer?’
“Press-officers, P.R.O.s, or
whatever it may please authority
to call them are a pernicious in-
fluence on journalism; that
nobody can think of a better
alternative is the only argument
in their favor. Their adverse
effects can most easily be seen
on the newspapers’ corps of dip-
lomatic correspondents, once the
cream of the profession, now
(with a couple of exceptions) a
Fleet-street joke, simply because
the Foreign Office press-service
is % so insidiously efficient that
they have been debauched ; they
need do hardly any other work
except attend Embassy cocktail-
parties in order to pass informa-
tion on for the gossip-column.
“The growth of the P.R.O.
system is by no means the only
example of the hold the State
has gained over the press; but it
happens to be a good example,
because its effects are obvious
to every journalist.”
The same: “The risk of such
assaults on the freedom of the
press would be smaller if the
press stood high in the public’s
esteem. It does not. Mr. Wads-
worth [editor, “Manchester
Guardian”], surveying the scene,
concludes that the picture of the
press today is not a pleasant
one. ‘Must the newspaper coin-
age go on being debased?’ It
does not need Mr. Bevan or Mr.
Randolph Churchill to remind
us that the press has ceased to
be liked. Individual newspapers
gain affection, not the press as
an institution.
“During the newspaper strike
it was as if the public had been
deprived of a drug, not of a
companion. The setting-up of
the Press Council has done little
to improve matters ; it is too
obviously mainly a face-saver.
“The owners of the great press
empires, immersed in the pur-
suit of circulation, have not
fully appreciated what this un-
popularity means. They find it
hard to realise that people may
go on buying in increasing num-
bers a paper they despise—
fascinated in spite of themselves
by the products of dishonest
reporting and distorted
comments.”
Various Voices
U.S. Secretary of State John
Foster Dulles: “In the economic
field we have frustrated what
has been a long-cherished hope
of Soviet policy, namely, that
the capitalistic world would fall
apart under the impact of
economic crises. Instead, it has
been the Soviet bloc that has
staggered under the impact of
economic problems which,
apparently, its system has been
unable to solve. These facts
must indeed bring discourage-
ment to the Communists, as they
look out over the world today,
and it must force them to
reappraise their own past
thinking.”
Harold Stassen (President
Eisenhower’s disarmament
adviser): “Now, with the
hydrogen-bomb, there is no
longer any chance of any nation
winning a war. The only ques-
tion is which one will lose the
most. Thus, in the H-bomb, we
have a new horror, but also a
new hope.”
Camille Gutt (president of the
International Chamber of Com-
merce) : “Prosperity today spells
responsibility. Prosperous
countries are well aware that
their prosperity would be an
illusion if it sprang from the
poverty and insecurity of
others.”
Herbert Hoover, Jr. (U.S.
Under-Secretary of State): “The
greatest assurance of Japan’s
becoming a source of strength to
the free nations in the Far East
lies in its becoming strong,
. independent and self-respecting.
Weakness, whether it be politi-
cal, economic or military, can
assist only those forces leading
to disorder and subversion.”
Sir Winston Churchill: “I con-
fess that, like Disraeli, I am on
the side of the optimists. I do
not believe that humanity is go-
ing to destroy itself. A period of
relaxation of tension may well
be all that is now within our
grasp. Even so, such a phase
would not be sterile. On the
contrary, it would give time for
Science to show the magnitude
of her blessings rather than all
her terrors: and this again may
lead us into a more genial climate
of opinion and resolve.”
Mrs. Bessie Braddock (British
Labor M.P.): “Right now the
basic insecurity the workers [in
Britain’s Welfare State] feel is
this: they are haunted "by the
spectre of the van driving up
to the door to take away the
TV-set.”
Dr. Willard F. Libby (of the
U.S. Atomic Energy Commis-
sion) : “The question of military
usefulness of plutonium has
overweighed the question of its
fuel-value. But from the point of
view of atomic power, it may
eventually prove to be possible
to consider uranium-238 itself
as fissionable, and, therefore, a
source of power. If this should
prove to be true, the world has
available bountiful quantities of
fuel, for ordinary granite rock
'which has four-parts per million
of uranium in it would then
become equivalent to 12 times
its own weight in coal as an
energy-source.”
Dr. Heinz L. Krekeler (Ger-
man Ambassador to the United
States ): “We know that the
greatest hope for reunification
of Germany lies within a world-
wide settlement of the present
tensions between East and
West.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Where Public Money Goes!
The report by the Parliamentary Public
Accounts Committee on the aluminium
project at Bell Bay (Tasmania) has
emphasised the need for tightening the
rules governing statutory bodies ; and it
will be a good thing all round if the
Government carries out the Prime Minis-
ter’s recent promise to “look into the
matter at an early date.”
A statutory authority need not be dis-
honest to fall into the habit of handling
public moneys carelessly. It is a human
weakness to be less scrupulous about
spending other people’s money than our
own ; and the practice of granting annual
appropriations to statutory authorities
encourages an attitude of irresponsibility
towards how the money is spent, so long
as it is spent within the allotted time.
The Treasury system of accounting under
which statutory bodies work makes it
exceedingly difficult for the layman to
discover just how carefully (or carelessly)
Parliamentary appropriations are spent.
Take the Australian Broadcasting Com-
mission as an example. No one has ever
suggested that the A.B.C. handles its
annual appropriation dishonestly, but
sometimes it does spend public money
without a due sense of economy. I
have known of the issue of instructions to
departmental heads in the closing months
of a financial year to “step-up” the rate
of spending for the balance of the term
lest the next estimates be pruned accord-
ingly.
The A.B.C. was among the first organi-
sations in Australia to pay weekend
penalty-rates to some members of its
staff; among the people it chose for this
beneficent gesture were the news-typists
taking dictation from journalists who were
receiving only award-rates. Another
example of commission inconsistency
occurred recently when it was decided,
after negotiation, to pay annual salary-
increases to its senior officers ranging
from £5OO to £lOOO, but decreed that
lower-paid officers of the Staff Associa-
tion must fight for their increases before
the Public Service Arbitrator.
The commission has also allowed the
cost of national broadcasting generally
to increase out of all proportion to
present-day costs. Eight years ago, when
its own newsservice was launched, the
metropolitan daily press and the commis-
sion itself forecast that an annual expen-
diture of £lOO,OOO on news would spell
bankruptcy for national broadcasting.
The cost for the year ended June 30, 1954,
was £326,000, but this trebling of the
original estimate failed to produce even
a mild comment from the daily press, and
“This is not good—you should see a doctor."
the commission expressed no concern.
Other programme- costs have also shown
astronomic increases. Music and variety
cost three-quarters of a million pounds
last year, and talks cost well over a
quarter-million. The commission’s total
expenditure for the year was more than
£3,000,000.
The commission has now been entrusted
with the running of national TV in Aus-
tralia, and, unless a tight rein is kept on its
expenditure, its budget for that alone may
soon run into at least three times the
amount now spent on broadcasting, with
a comparatively small return from licence-
fees for a long time. TV is an extremely
costly business, and the A.B.C. is not
particularly noted for its ability to get
along on a small budget. —M. F. Dixon
(N.S.W.).
Queensland
The problem of populating inland
Queensland (“Magnoon,” B. 15/6/’55) is
serious, but not insuperable. The mineral
“oasis” of Mt. Isa excepted, population
figures are below those of 21 years ago:
Flinders, 1933, 1603 ; 1954, 1520.
Hughenden, 1823, 1772. McKinlay, 1899,
1648. Richmond, 1776, 1586.
That’s in the north-western district
and, over the same period, the same story
is repeated elsewhere —central-western,
22,970 to 22,430 ; far-western, 5455 to
5345.
The war-years took their toll, but the
present increase is snail-like. Lack of
wealth is hardly the cause. For example,
some recent building-progress in only one
town in the far-west includes a £250,000
hotel, two modern banks and residences,
an R.S.L. memorial-hall, a C.W.A. youth-
hostel and mothers’-home, a brick
butcher-shop, a large car business, a big
concrete water-tower for fire-fighting pur-
poses, a bowling-green, about a dozen
local-authority dwellings for employees,
and, of course, private residences and
many renovations.
All that represents a lot of money, and
banking companies don’t build in pauper
districts. Yet there are now fewer people
in this town than there were 20, or even
30, years ago.
Decentralisation? There isn’t any.| And
that seems to be the crux of the matter.
Pastoral workers predominate —station-
managers, shearers, ringers, drovers, etc.
—and the basic livelihood of everybody
depends on the graziers’ sheep and cattle.
There is a saturation-point for labor —
so many sheep to shear or stock to muster,
and so much maintenance-work to be
done.
Closer-settlement seems to have made
little difference, and until new industries
are founded the inland cannot expand.
One solution would be local abattoirs to
kill and handle the live beef and mutton
now railed to the distant coast or metro-
polis for slaughter—cattle lose an average
of 1001 b. each on a long trip. Chilled-
meat from inland works could be railed
or flown anywhere in the State as
required.
Other departments could be formed to
handile by-products. An abattoir as a
going concern at each western centre
where warranted would take workers and
their families from the cities and put
them where needed most. The benefit
would be widespread.
Again, if every grazier in a defined
pastoral area sent his wool to the nearest
country scour for treatment before railing
to the capital it would mean constant
employment for many men. In districts
where the local scour has “folded” it
should be possible for a co-operative
group of pastoralists to re-open it or instal
new plant. Fellmongeries would be an-
other useful adjunct.
Secondary industries could follow:
meat-canning, glue-making, leather-work,
gut-products, lanolin, fertiliser, the pro-
cessing of gland-extracts, tallow and fats,
and the manufacture of other commercial
items that have their origin wtih sheep
and cattle. ■
It would mean more workers, more
homes, increased public services and
recreation-facilities and so forth, all
having a cumulative effect on population.
It’s no dream —it has to come. Once a
“The trouble with you is you re too old-fashioned."
lethargic Government realises the neces-
sity of helping to establish such essential
industries as abattoirs, scours and fell-
mongeries right where the primary
materials are abundantly available a tre-
mendous lift in Queensland’s interior
population should result. —Quo Vadis
(Q.).
Country Storekeepers
After 40 years’ service in a bank, and
having been bom and reared in a rural
area, I’m not sure about commending the
country storekeeper’s attitude on credit
(“1.0.L.,” B. 22/6/’55).
So much easy credit had a definite
tendency to make farmers careless about
finance, and as long as tick was available
insufficient effort was made to augment
incomes.
Many indifferent farmers got under the
guard of the country storekeeper, who,
without a sound knowledge of their acti-
vities, allowed himself to be gulled, and
often lost heavily. It would have been to
the general good to have declined credit
at the outset to such people. Some store-
keepers broke themselves, their families
and trusting friends who put money in
the storekeeping venture, and left creditors
lamenting.
Finally, losses from book-debts were
heavy ; it would have been better to have
charged less for the goods and sold only
to the man who was paying his way. The
cash-buyer assisted to pay for the credit
—he always does —and frequently the
booking-up man was also hit hard with
prices. Many country storekeepers got
their pound of flesh by divers means. —
C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Granted that the country storekeeper
plays an important part in the farmer’s
economy, I have seen no signs that he
ages prematurely. Life-assurance com-
panies do not load his life-policy because
of his calling—in fact, he is regarded as
a good risk. Not that he did not have
his share of stress and strain during the
depression —but so did his customers.
1 have often wondered how many of
those farmer-customers whom the store-
keeper carried subsequently went along to
him, after they had come good, and
made-up the amounts compulsorily
written-off under Farmers’ Debts Adjust-
ment legislation. Not many, I’ll be bound.
Many a storekeeper had to accept a few
shillings in the pound in settlement of a
debt, only to see, within a very few years,
the same customers riding round in expen-
sive new cars, their overdrafts and the
like then things of the past.
Before the cocky gets to the stage of
leaning heavily on the store he has
stretched his overdraft limit to breaking-
point, and any security he might have
would have been given to the bank. I
have seen cases where the bank held land-
and stock-mortgages, crop-liens and a
bill-of-sale over the farming-plant, and
yet, knowing that, the storekeeper still
went on supplying goods. Small wonder
that he often found himself out in the
cold.
Banks, however, in lending at current
overdraft-rates simply cannot afford to
take too much risk, whereas the store-
keeper with his 30 to 40 per cent, profit
on some lines might be tempted to be
generous with credit. Many of them
charged interest on overdue accounts—
it was not all benevolence, and any grati-
tude received was largely in the nature of
a lively expectation of still more favors
to come.—Harry the Horse (Vic.).
Buying a Home
John Hogarth (B. 15/6/’55) is well out
of touch with home-buying—or Victoria
is much more richly blessed than most
other States. I am in daily contact in
N. S. Wales with agents and purchasers—
or would-be purchasers—of homes, and I
find that the problem of finance has never
been more acute than it is today.
As J.H. says, on today’s wages two
young people can easily save £lOOO in
a very short time if they set their minds
to it. Unfortunately, £lOOO will not buy
a home today, nor will it even amount to
an acceptable deposit unless the borrower
is eligible for finance under the War Ser-
vice Homes Scheme.
It is one of the tragedies of the age
that, with the nation enjoying unsurpassed
prosperity, young couples with as much
as £l5OO in their pockets are unable to
borrow as much again to enable them to
buy a home in which to rear their hoped-
for families.
Some people have organised their own
supplies and started to build their own
homes. Whether they will ultimately come
out ahead depends upon a number of
things, including the time and skill they
can bring to the job. Not all home-
seekers have the ability to build a house
which will satisfy the financial institutions
and local-authorities, and far too many
homes built by amateur owners look the
part.
The position is impossible all round.
Because money is not available for home-
finance, except in a trickle earmarked for
new construction, thousands of existing
homes are frozen in their present owner-
ship.
Many ageing parents whose families
have left home would gladly sell the old
large place and acquire something small
and modern and more suited to their
changed needs. Younger people with
growing families would gladly buy the
larger dwelling—if they could borrow the
necessary money.
Real-estate interests have constantly,
but unavailingly, petitioned the Federal
Government to make more money avail-
able for housing. The Government’s argu-
ment is that the provision of housing has
always been a function of private enter-
prise, and, anyway, the Commonwealth
Bank is already providing more money
for housing than at any time in the past.
Neither argument will bring joy to the
hearts of the homeless, any more than
J.H.’s assertion that £lOOO is very much
more than Mum and Dad had to start
with. When Mum and Dad wanted to
buy their home and put their £lOO (not
£1000) on the counter, there were plenty
of dwellings to choose from at from one-
fifth of the price expected today for a
comparable dwelling—and no end of
people or institutions willing to lend the
balance.
In the interim there has been consider-
able development of industry with rich
rewards for investment in shares instead
of in bricks and mortar. Who today will
lend money at 5 per cent, or 5£ per cent,
for 20 to 45 years when anything from
6 per cent, to 15 per cent, is to be earned
by investment in shares, and not risky
ones at that?
The position calls for a rethinking by
the bureaucrats who control the Common-
wealth pursestrings, and an acknowledg-
ment of the fact that home-purchasers to-
day have no alternative but to look to the
Government for funds—unless someone
considers that increased interest-rates on
mortgages might be tried. — Jindivick
(N.S.W.).


Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
All types of General Insurance
Directors:
SIR VICTOR WILSON, K.B.E. (Chairman).
JAMES H. STEPHENSON (Deputy Chairman).
S. E. A. STIRLING, STRUAN ROBERTSON,
„ R. G. GALE.
A. C. MAITLAND, N. E. MANIOrN
Managing Director. Manager.
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
The Tale of Two Motorists
on a Cold and Frosty Morning
Now, here’s a motorist
with nothing to smile about.
Starting his car these bitter
mornings is a nightmare.
Regular grade or ordinary
detergent oils just can't do
the job that VISCO-
STATIC does because
only VISCO - STATIC’S
special properties reduce in-
stant drag, safeguard your
battery and set entirely
new standards for easy,
cold-weather starting.
Here’s a happy, smiling
motorist. And no wonder.
Now he’s using Special
Energol VISCO-STATIC
Motor Oil it’s as easy
starting his car these cold
and frosty mornings as it
was during the summer.
The instant lubrication of
VISCO-STATIC sees to
that. Saves his battery . •.
and engine wear, too.
(See graph below.)
Special Energol
VISCO-STATIC
Motor Oil keeps new
engines new, adds years
of life to a good used
engine and saves you
pounds on rebores and
engine replacement. It
is, however, recom-
mended only for new or
well-conditioned
engines. Start tomorrow
morning with VISCO-
STATIC ... and you’ll
be smiling too.
SPECIAL ENERGOL
VISCO-STATIC
MOTOR OIL
Sold only in or from sealed containers.
SPECIAL
enerc° l
Special Energol VISCO-
STATIC Motor Oil and
a complete range of
ENERGOL premium
grade automotive oils and
ENERGREASES are
available where you see
these pumps.
Marketed throughout Australia by
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd.
Wear during first 10 minutes
after starting from cold
0.8
With Regular Grade oil
i 0.61
3 O'
Comparison of wear obtained with
Regular Grade oil, ordinary Deter-
gent oil and Special Energol
VISCO-STATIC motor oil. m/c278
Fishing
Official inquiries have begun into the
serious decline of fishing in Port Phillip
Bay (Vic.) and adjacent coastal waters.
The seaside town of Queenscliff, so
placed that it permits easy access to the
fishing-grounds of the Bay and Bass
Strait, once supplied all of Geelong’s and
a good proportion of Melbourne’s fish.
Twenty years ago between 50,000 and
60,000 cases of fish left Queenscliff every
year, representing the efforts of 60 ocean-
going boats. Today the yearly catch is
less than 5000 cases from only 15 boats.
"What is true of Queenscliff is also true,
if to a lesser extent, of all Victorian
coastal towns from Portland to Comer
Inlet. It simply means that the inshore
fisheries are approaching exhaustion, and
until some means is found of allowing
them to become replenished the fishing
business will continue to go downhill. —
Plain Australian (Vic.).
Irrigation and* Development
“Magnoon” asserts (B. 15/6/’55) that
“The [Queensland] Government would,
rather spend our money on an electric-
railway and a TV station for Brisbane.”
The facts are that the lion’s share of
expenditure on capital works and
development is going to country districts,
particularly the central and northern parts
of the State.
Expenditure in North Queensland in
1953-54 was £63.7 per head of popula-
tion, in Central Queensland £34.1, and
in South Queensland £27.6, compared
with £28.9 for the metropolitan region.
Reference to a TV station doesn’t make
sense. No such project is in existence or
contemplated.
Irrigation? The 1953-54 report shows
that the area under irrigation in Queens-
land has increased by 10 per cent, in 12
months, and now totals 126,693 acres.
More than 300 persons have taken
advantage of the advisory service of the
commission on water-conservation and
its uses for irrigation, stock and domestic
purposes.
“Magnoon” ignores what has been
achieved at Clare irrigation-area on the
Burdekin, where the tobacco-crop was
the best yet produced and sold at an
average price of 162 d. per pound, with
a maximum of 207 d. per pound. In
addition to the two major projects under
construction, Mareeba-Dimbulah and
stage-one of the Burdekin project, there
is a substantial programme of minor
works ; and during the year completion
of five weirs increased total storage-
capacity by some 8800 acre-feet.
Large-scale irrigation could proceed
more speedily and contribute greatly to
settlement and to the national wealth if
the Commonwealth would show a prac-
tical interest by supporting these schemes
financially. Apart from the added security
of irrigated cultivation, the benefits from
this type of development are manifold.
Since the Commonwealth derives a
greater portion of taxation than the States
from such development, it is not
unreasonable to expect it to share the
financial burden. But to date not a
single penny has been contributed by
the Commonwealth to any major irriga-
tion-work in the northern State. — Clem
Lack (Q.).
“Super” Petrol
For the past month, at trade conven-
tions and in the press, the motorist has
been subjected to a spate of technical and
quasi-technical statements, as well as a
lot of undiluted ballyhoo, with reference
to the superlative qualities of the “new”
petrol which came on sale at filling-
“I know it's the fashion , but SERVICE ties are Worn in the
regulation manner.”
stations on June 24. There was, however,
a peculiar reticence on the side of the dis-
tributors to divulge any exact quantitative
information either as to the octane-
number (ON) of the improved spirit or
as to the method by which this number
was determined.
There are two methods in common use
for measuring ON. The “Motor” method
tests the petrol “under relatively severe
conditions,” while the “Research” method
does so “under relatively mild condi-
tions.” In general, the “Motor” ON
figure is lower than that obtained by the
“Research” method, but, in rare cases,
the reverse may be the case.
The American Society for Testing
Materials (A.S.T.M.), out of 98 separate
samples of gasoline, found only two in
which the “Motor” ON was lower than
the “Research” ON ; both were excep-
tional spirits, in one case the gasoline
was of a very low rating (60.1: 60.0 ON)
and, in the other case, of exceptionally
high rating (100.7: 97.7 ON). The differ-
ences obtained by use of the two methods
varied from —3.0 ON to +13.5 ON,
with an average difference of +7.9 in
favor of the “Research” method.
This difference is known as the “sensi-
tivity” of the particular petrol under
test; it is usually considered a most im-
portant figure, as it is a measure of the
response of the sample to a change in the
severity of conditions. At best, the ON
determined by only one method is far
less useful than the two figures given by
the different methods of test. The publi-
cation of the two values would allow an
intelligent motorist to form some opinion
as to the most suitable petrol for his own
particular requirements.
At present, if the “splash” advertise-
ments currently appearing in the news-
papers are to be believed, each individual
brand of gasoline is superior, in all
respects, to every other brand on the
market, which —as Euclid said at the end
of the fourth century b.c. —is absurd.
It should be remembered that 90/92
“Research” ON gasoline has been
marketed in U.S.A. and in U.K. for many
years as “premium” spirit under a variety
of brands, and there is no valid reason
why it should not have been obtainable
here long before now.
For myself, what is being sold at 3d.
a gallon more than ordinary spirit will
have to be very good indeed to enable
me to forgive and forget the years of
toil and trouble which I suffered in trying
to run a high-compression sports motor
at a reasonable level-of efficiency on the
miserable 70/72 ON spirit which was all
that was available in Australia until a
new distributor broke out of the ring
with a promise to import better stuff.
Now both the “independent” and the
“one-brand” distributors have combined
to beat the “rebel” to it.
Much as I dislike rebels in general, my
sympathies are with this one. — Abdul
Assiz (N.S.W.).
White-ants
John Gilmore’s home-builder who
fired a man for dodging the creosoting of
bearers against white-ants (B. 15/6/’55)
makes one wonder how good his anti-ant
measures were.
The key to white-ant control is the
fact that they cannot build their galleries
over a properly-constructed tin shield.
If shields are built-in at every point
where the house touches the ground the
house will be permanently free of the
pest. If one point is left unguarded it
will be used as the point of entry, after
which galleries can spread throughout the
building. Often a house properly pro-
tected by the builder is subsequently laid
open to attack by the addition of steps,
trellis or plumber’s fittings. It is quite
safe to add these if they are adequately
shielded.
Brick, cement and terra-cotta are ideal
for white-ants to build over in order to
reach the timber above. They don’t eat
wood carrying creosote, since this .is
poison to them. To dispense with the tin
shields and creosote the bearers instead
may be practical Or not, depending on
what opportunities the pests have for by-
passing the treated wood. On the whole,
a timber-frame house is best built on con-
crete blocks capped with tin. Full in-
structions for the fitting of shields may
be obtained from the C.5.1.R.0.
When white-ants are found in a house
the owners usually begin to remove
affected timber or to poison the insects
with any handy material such as kerosene.
These measures drive the ants away to
some more secluded part of the house,
where they continue their ravages.
A better method is to obtain a small
quantity of Paris-green and a hand-puffer
consisting of a metal stem attached to a
rubber bulb. With a pin, pick a small hole
in the white-ants’ gallery, then puff in
some Paris-green. Seal the hole thor-
oughly with putty. Repeat wherever the
galleries can be found. As the worker-ants
pass along the galleries they will pick up
the powder on their bodies and will
eventually poison their queens and wipe-
out the colony. — Howie Wing (W.A.).


BEAUTIFUL • ECONOMICAL • FIRE-RESISTANT
l LI PL
Cffltutd&dicA* modern
METAL CEILINGS
not only beautiful in design and inexpensive,
but permanent, too, because they—
• LAST A LIFETIME
• DO NOT STAIN OR CRACK
• REQUIRE NO REPAIRS
• SELDOM NEED REPAINTING
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, 'phone
MX 2411 or write to Wunderlich Limited, Dept.
M, for prices and illustrated folder.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
Box 474, G.P.0., SYDNEY
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PLACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows,
Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illustrated is the
" FARMERS ’
BOY”
ROTARY
BOE
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particulars
and for free demonstrations of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazeos Co-operative Ltd-.
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC.: Grazeos Co-operative Ltd., 9u
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: Buzaeott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Best
Mineral
I
Supplement
for all stock foods. Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt. Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
CM-
-I*'
i«js*n
BOH*
«■«*"*
WV.
’dtiM-Oi-
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR'
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular! gladly nippllo*—
Writ# to DAVIS GELATINE: ©AO. tm tStl.
SYDNEY • ©AO. Bob 40S8. MELBOURNE • GAO.
Bob 712 F. ADELAIDE • GAO- ®®» 7SBK - BRISBANE
• ©AO. Bob BBS. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK 6t STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SPECIALISTS TALK ON SHEEP
By G. H. Ford and K. J. Whiteley
MENTION has been made
here from time to time of
the series of lectures held in Syd-
ney each year by the School of
Wool Technology. In the latest
proceedings wool, of course, was
the main subject. But others,
relating to fat-lamb production
and sheep-husbandry, were also
dealt with.
Milton Moore, for instance,
discussed pasture-research. He
suggested that after the soil has
been improved it may be neces-
sary to find new species which
give higher yields, even though
it would have been impossible to
establish them under the original
unimproved conditions. Also, as
conditions improve, new defi-
ciencies may arise, preventing
optimum production-levels until
they are remedied.
A final point: under very
good conditions, it might be
necessary to plough-in the
pasture and crop for a year
to use up accumulated fer-
tility. Thus, under these condi-
tions, permanent pasture may
not be the best system.
Novel Bale-sampling
Professor Alexander John-
ston is—as mentioned earlier
here —a wool-specialist from the
University of Wyoming who is
visiting Australia under the
Fulbright scheme. He has
specialised in the U.S. “core-
boring” testing-programme. This,
a refined technique, involves the
extraction of samples by forcing
a stainless-steel tube into the
bale at the top and the bottom.
The tube, which is driven by
an electric-drill, can then be
withdrawn containing the sample.
As the greasy fleeces lie hori-
zontally in the bale, this sample,
which is taken in the vertical
position, will be more represent-
ative than a hand-sample. An-
other advantage is that it avoids
any errors arising from the
accumulation of moisture in the
lower half of the bale.
Professor Johnston has
aroused much interest with this
technique, and at the School of
Wool Technology we intend to
examine it carefully with a view
to incorporating it in our testing
programme.
Wool and Fat-lambs
D. H. McKay, principal
research-officer in wool at the
Bureau of Agricultural Econ-
omics, Canberra, spoke on a
comparison of specialised wool-
“HE got his nest ready-cut."
growing and fat-lamb units in
different parts of N.S.W.
He compared two groups of
farms: one group of nine wool
properties and nine fat-lamb
properties from the slopes and
tablelands, and a similar group
of five of each type from the
Nyngan district. His survey
showed rather unexpected facts.
On the fat-lamb properties the
return from wool accounted for
52 per cent, and 53 per cent, of
the total income on the “in-
side” and Nyngan districts
respectively. Few people, except
fat-lamb specialists, realise what
a lucrative sideline wool can be
on a fat-lamb property.
Another interesting thing that
came out of the survey was that
on wool holdings on the slopes
and tablelands wool accounts
for 93 per cent, of the income,
while in the far-west district it
accounts for only 65 per cent.
Sheep-sales, and a fair amount
of dealing in the west, explain
the apparent inconsistency.
Beef and Sheep
G. C. McFarlane, assistant
economics-r esearch officer,
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture, was concerned with some
economic aspects of beef-
production in association with
sheep.
Whether sheep and cattle
should be run together where
possible is controversial, and will
only be solved finally when
research at present in progress
is completed. Nevertheless, some
interesting statistics have
accumulated.
There has been a tendency to
increase cattle-numbers in south-
era areas on sheep-wheat farms,
but there is a need for a much
greater increase, especially in
view of our immigration-
programme.
Mr. McFarlane suggested that
not only could numbers be
increased but a reduction in
the seasonality of beef could be
effected by using the north of
the State as a store-breeding
area, and then shipping these
stores south, rather than fatten-
ing them in the north.
Another benefit from such a
scheme would be an increase in
the quality of export-beef, allow-
ing us to compete more strongly
with countries such as the
Argentine.
A final point: 70 per cent, of
the beef-cattle in the State are
run in wool-growing areas.
Present increase and future
changes will thus depend on the
relative profitableness of the
two —wool and beef.
Manufacturers’ Wants
A. Johnson, head of the Tex-
tile School, N.S.W. Department
of Technical Education, was con-
cerned with requirements of
manufacturers.
He pointed out that there had
been a trend towards relatively
simple, uniform weaves in
cloth. This he attributes, firstly,
to the public demand for
worsted-flannel trousers and
sports-coats, and, secondly, the
development of large-scale tailor-
ing organisations in turning-out
multiple-fittings which need
large quantities of a given type.
Also, big artificial-fibre
manufacturers may vigorously
test a certain blend, and small
manufacturers will then have
confidence in that cloth and
make it —thus tending towards
uniformity.
Large Government orders are
an added incentive —and. these
orders will no doubt continue to
be given. All these factors can
be generalised: There is a greater
demand now for mass-
production, and this does not
permit variation in the final
product.
Mr. Johnson also discussed
yarn-manufacture, and empha-
sised that small amounts of
synthetic fibres, apart from the
possibility of ‘improving the
properties of the finished pro-
duct, could also step-up the rate
of production. They could do
this by preventing breakage and
shrinkage, and would allow a
reduction in the number of
twists per inch to be inserted
to give a yarn of a desired
strength. „
Flock-testing Service
E. M. Roberts, technical-
officer, School of Wool Tech-
nology, is engaged in a flock-
testing trial on studs and sheeps
breeding properties throughout
N.S.W. In time this will be built
up to a flock-testing service, run
jointly by this school and other
State departments.
Financed at the moment by
the C.5.1.R.0., the service is
provided free ; a charge will, of
course, be made when the ser-
vice is established. The aim of
this scheme is to improve the
quantity and quality of wool
carried by Merino sheep, while
still keeping in mind the con-
formation.
The test consists of three dif-
ferent cullings. A primary cull-
ing removes animals of inferior
conformation and constitution.
Sheep are then selected on the
basis of their wool from data
collected at shearing.
The process is a little technical
to explain in limited space, but,
briefly, the characters selected
are highly heritable, and results
so far indicate that the method
is approximately twice as
efficient as the old classing
method.
Parasite-control
Hugh Gordon talked on con-
trol of worm-parasites in sheep.
Control could be summed-up
under four headings:
1. Keep the sheep well fed all
the time.
2. Drench with the right
drench.
3. Drench at the right time.
4. Drench in the right way.
Plan of attack should be
based on a compromise between
doing what is best for the sheep
and pasture and what is worst
for the parasite. In all cases,
the life-cycle of the individual
species is the starting-point.
The contamination - phase,
when the eggs are being passed
in the droppings, is attacked by
strategic drenching to reduce
their numbers, especially at
certain critical periods —e.g., be-
fore lambing, in spring and in
autumn. Rotational grazing
and spelling (up to three weeks)
are useful at this stage.
The free-living stage on the
pasture is attacked by making
use of the deadly effects of dry-
ness and sunshine. If there is
persistent wet weather the pro-
portion of the larvae killed may
only be small.
The infection-phase is best
attacked by rotational grazing
and spelling, and making use of
the indirect effects of better
nutrition. Worm - infestation
aggravates the effects of imper-
fect nutrition. Avoidance of
overcrowding is also important.
Increasing Production
P. G. Schinkel, principal
research - officer, wool - biology,
Sheep Biology Laboratory,
C.5.1.R.0., Prospect (N.S.W.),
dealt with recent findings in
wool-biology.
British Longwools and
Merinos produce the same
amount of wool per unit-area of
skin. Since we want to know
the amount of wool a sheep
produces, it seems to come down
to the size of the sheep (skin-
area) and a quality which can-
not be measured in simple terms.
This latter quality is probably
concerned with things “deeper
than the skin,” such as the
efficiency of food-conversion
from the products of digestion
to the wool-fibre, a subject
highly complex, but in part, at
least, a fundamentally hereditary
characteristic of the animal.
Finally, the simplest and most
immediate method of increas-
ing wool-production is just to
feed sheep better.
Keylme
P. A. Yeomans, of Nevallan,
North Richmond (N.S.W.), in
discussing the keyline-plan of
farming, has shown that farm-
activities such as water-conser-
vation, cultivation, timber-clear-
ing and tree-planting, location
of farm roads, building and
working-paddock areas —all can
be fixed logically and economi-
cally by relating them to the
keyline.
The keyline is a true contour-
line fixed and marked per-
manently at the point where the
steep dip-over that forms the
head of the valley flattens to the
valley-bed. Mr. Yeomans has
found that, on his poor shale-
and sandstone-country (which is
so typical of the County of
Cumberland), the keyline-plan
has made the soil deep and rich
in humus, producing outstand-
ing growth of improved pastures
(especially clovers).
He bases his theory on the
availability of air and moisture
(especially air) to the lower
regions of the soil, thereby


in
m
K
A
N
H
€
O
■
MN
ii
Illustrated below is the Model
“E,” 7ft. GRAHAM PLOW which
sells at £145. It is available with
or standard shanks. Row
spacings are adjustable. Width may
Control Wheels (£4O extra).
Two types of JDeptn Control
Wheels may be used. Individually
adjustable Depth Control Wheels
(£37/10/- extra), or Standard Depth
Control Wheels (£4O extra).
World-wide tributes acknowledge
the Graham Plow as the greatest
agricultural implement in a 1 000
years.
GRAHAM PLOW
—the original and genuine chisel plow
is patented throughout the world.
Manufactured in Australia under licence
from, the Graham-Hoeme Plow Co.,
Amarillo, Texas, U.S.A., by Yeomans
Proprietary Ltd.
Introducing the
BUNYIP
LEVEL
Australian Patent No. 9368/55,
World Patents pending.
5-3 ?
H
IJlt
to Farmers, Graziers,
Engineers, Plumbers,
Builders, Landscape
Gardeners
—and anyone who needs to tind a
level for laying in contours, slop-
ing drains or to determine a varia-
tion in height.
The Bunyip Bevel is simple and
accurate, foolproof and fast. Whilst
remarkably low-priced, it will do
the job more efficiently than the
highest priced instrument. As
simple to operate in the hands of
a 10-year-old as the qualified
engineer.
FARMERS! You need the Bunyip
Level. Makes every man his own
engineer. Write, phone or wire.
YOUR CREDIT IS GOOD.
Immediate delivery.
nr» iiirmiiiimiiiiiiiiii anmi
Another exclusive Yeomans’
product is
/
/
/
—the new Agricultural Aid
Cu ITUBAIA
*Ag-yo sells at
per 5 cubic
foot bag.
* First lot to
farmers freight
free.
This price in-
cludes 2/6 for
the hessian bag
which is refund-
ahle or an
allowable deduc-
tion for bags
Australian Patent A'o* et i lrned - in per '
161933. feet condition.
World Patents pending.. Repeated tests
. ' nave shown that
‘Ag-Vo- is the only material that
will satisfactorily flow lime or
ground gypsum through a combine,
when. seed is shown with “Ag-Yo”
and lime in the mixture, the “Ag-
*o” nnrl 1 i inp opf »c » t
and lime act as a starter for
strong germination and a good
strike.
Ag-Yo” can be used in aerial
agriculture for the spreading of
fertilizers, inoculants, cultures,
insecticides and weedicides. It has
many other uses.
YEOMANS
Proprietary Limited,
537 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
MX 1884 MX 1784
Agents throughout Australia.
Fill in this Coupon and send to
full *a«ts of the GRAHAM
PLOW, the BI7NYIP LEVER
and AG-YO.
NAME
ADDRESS
SYSTEM
For all unsewered areas
mM
.
mss&
m
m
IMi
Even if you live in an unsewered area where there is no water supply,
you can still enjoy modern sanitation.
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. No more
unpleasant emptying! Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained
sanitary system that chemically transforms sewerage into a sterile
solution. This passes automatically to an underground sump and is
absorbed into the soil.
GUARANTEED. Strongly constructed with all-over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install—write now for free illus-
trated pamphlet. Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health .
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
•DISTRIBUTORS'
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, ping
William Street, Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne ;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also Launceston,
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
N.Z.: Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St,, Auckland, N.Z.
THE PASTORAL DIRECTORY
Is the most comprehensive available
LIST OF STOCK OWNERS
throughout Australia—except Western Australia. It contains the
names and addresses of all larger stock owners and. in New South
Wales and Queensland, the npmber of sheep and cattle grazed
is also shown.
THE PASTORAL DIRECTORY
includes indices for station properties and postal towns in New
South Wales and Queensland, together with a list of Stock &
Station Agents.
Invaluable for circularising and reference purposes.
Published by and available from
THE PASTORAL REVIEW PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Proprietors of the World’s Leading Pastoral Paper
22 LOFTUS STREET,
SYDNEY.
G.P.O. BOX 936
and
WOOL EXCHANGE,
MELBOURNE.
P.O. BOX 230 E
increasing the bacterial activity
on roots which are deeper down.
For this purpose a Graham-type
plough, which has a deep scari-
fying action, is used.
To Mr. Yeomans’s advocacy
we can add that the results
achieved on Nevallan are truly
remarkable, and no doubt much
more will be seen of “keyline.”
New Feeding System
J. M. Lambourne, of the
Ruakura Animal Research
Station, New Zealand, detailed
how, by research and observa-
tion, entirely new methods of
animal - husbandry, diametri-
cally opposed to the older
system, had been evolved.
Under the old system the
stock, wastefully fed in spring
and summer during the flush,
went into the winter in very
good condition, but by the end
of winter had fallen right off;
all this while carrying lambs
which were dropped in spring.
The result was that when the
ewe most needed nutrients —i.e.,
towards the end of pregnancy
and at the beginning of lacta-
tion —the nutrients were in
shorter supply.
The new methods showed
“they should come out of the
winter well, and management
should be planned six months
ahead to ensure this.”
At Ruakura (as in other parts
of the world) they have experi-
mented to find the best sire for
fat-lambs; and this would seem
to depend on the weight-class
of lamb desired. Suffolk-sired
lambs are unfinished at light
weights, while Southdown-sired
lambs are overfat at heavy
weights. Early weaning (six
weeks) has been found to be
successful in most cases, and
much more economical when it
can be done.
The growth of the wool has
been improved since the ewe
has been fed to her require-
ments throughout the year, in-
stead of being overfed at one
stage and starved at another.
Great success with pregnant
mares’ serum as a stimulant to
“superovulation” has been
achieved, but is only successful
where intensive management is
possible. Growth-hormones to
modify the course of growth and
fattening have been experi-
mented with, and show great
promise.
[Full proceedings of the lec-
tures will be available later in
the year in “Wool Technology.”]
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(3/7/’55)
The Single cycle continues to play an important part
in the season. Queensland should get light and patchy
rains, with no really good, general-relief rains before
December.
Moderate general rains should occur in N.S.W.
during August, with light rains on the North Coast and in
the Riverina and Far West.
Rainfall should be lighter than usual in Victoria during
August, although the southern half should receive heavy
rains, particularly in East Gippsland, where flooding is
possible. . . i
South Australia should experience serviceable rains,
and good rains should continue in Western Australia.
LENNOX WALKER.
Spraying Costs
“Sundowner”: Interesting
figures have been produced by
the Tasmanian Department of
Agriculture related to the cost of
spraying such growths as black-
berry, gorse, briar and boxthorn.
It was assumed that the farmer
had his own spraying-machine
and was using hormone weedi-
cides.
Total cost per acre was
reckoned at £1 15s. 2d., as
against contractors’ spraying
charges, usually about 15s. How-
ever, depreciation of plant,
allowed for in the higher cost, is
not a continuing charge ; after
four years the whole of the capi-
tal cost of plant would be
absorbed and costs would then
be much more in favor of the
farmer’s own machine.
In addition is the supreme
advantage of having one’s own
outfit, which means spraying
when ready and repeating, if
necessary, at much less cost.
Molybdenum
“J.H.U.”: Usually there is
enough molybdenum in the soil,
but frequently it is not available
to the crop, generally because of
soil-acidity. Liming, which
makes soil more alkaline,
counters the acidity and releases
molybdenum to plants. This
could sometimes be the reason
for a good response to liming,
and, where that is so, adding a
few ounces of molybdenum per
acre may be more effective and
cheaper than adding several tons
of limestone per acre.
Among acid soils in which
molybdenum is quite likely to be
unavailable are soils high in
iron-oxides and in available
manganese, soils recently brought
under cultivation, and soils
heavily dressed with sulphates.
Soils likely to be totally defi-
cient in molybdenum are those
that have been highly leached,
such as coastal-sands and hill-
country soils, those that have
been heavily cropped, and alka-
line soils in heavy-rainfall areas.
Soils not likely to be deficient
in molybdenum are highly-
productive fertile soils, heavily-
limed or -manured soils, alkaline
soils under low rainfall, and
peat and muck soils.
Where soils are deficient, a
molybdenum-chemical (sodium-
or ammonium-molybdate or
molybdic-oxide) can be used.
The simplest way is to mix it
in a fertiliser and put it on as a
topdressing.
Have the soil tested (send a
pound or so to the local Depart-
ment of Agriculture), and if
molybdenum is recommended
ask the district agricultural
officer about the amount to use
per acre.
Recommended amounts
should not be exceeded, particu-
larly on grazing-crops, because
too much moly. may cause
copper-deficiency in cattle and
sheep. Generally there is not
enough moly. in the soil to cause
such trouble, but on peat soils,
and on some poorly-drained
alkaline soils where moly. has
accumulated, the disease may
occur. It is easily corrected, how-
ever, by giving small quantities
of copper-salts in licks or drink-
ing-water. Conversely*, where
animals are affected by copper
toxicity, addition of moly.
redresses the balance.
Inbreeding of Horses
Inbreeding of stock,
common among breeders of
cattle and sheep, is not followed
with thoroughbred horses be-
cause inbreeding is calculated
to produce large groups of uni-
form stock, showing a relative
over-all high-breed average,
whereas the racehorse-breeder
perpetually seeks the individual
champion which, though out-
standing in itself, cannot be
relied upon to reproduce more
champions. Still, as the late Dr.
Hagedoorn said, much can be
achieved by mating the champion
with his daughters and grand-
daughters.
Thus, Star Kingdom, one of
the best-performed horses to be
imported to Australia, carries six
strains of Pilgrimage blood;
Carbon Copy, one of Australia’s
highest stake-winners, has seven
lines of the great sire St. Simon
in his immediate ancestry.
Star Kingdom’s progeny
topped yearling-sales in Sydney ;
seven averaged 3000gns. Of his
two-year-old offspring, eight are
winners in their first season. This
fabulous creature’s list of mares
has exceeded the vacancies by
120, and Baramul Stud has
refused lOOOgns. for a single
booking offered by an anxious
late-comer.
If all the genes this flower of
his race has for speed are gath-
ered together in his sons and
daughters, and if they just have
that extra bit over other families
or strains, then to dilute them
with other mixtures would seem
foolish. They should be jealously
guarded and mixed in together
in their purity. Some of our
highest producers of beef and
butterfat are closely inbred, and
many sheep-flocks represent
more than 120 years of selective
inbreeding.
The so-called erratic tempera-
ment of the inbred racehorse
would have to be statistically
proved before it could be
accepted as more inevitable than
what is produced by an outcross.
Farm Hints
“Pongo”: All boar-pigs that
have to be handled should be
regarded as dangerous, and at
15 months the tusks should be
cut. Place a rope-noose in the
pig’s mouth and around the top
jaw as far back as possible.
When the noose is tight, put the
other end around a strong post
and draw the boar’s head up
against the post. The tusks can
then be cut off close to the gums
by a bolt-cutter or other suitable
appliance.
“J-School”: Save some fresh
pasture for the spring calves.
Those who give their calves clean
pasture early find that it pro-
motes growth and saves a lot
of milk in the rearing-
programme.
“Sunset”: When feeding hay
be sure to collect the wire or
twine from bale or sheaf. Wire
can easily wind around the axle
of an implement or vehicle, or
puncture a pneumatic-tyre. Also,
knots and small pieces of wire
can kill stock. Death is often
delayed until the wire reaches
a vital organ, such as the heart.


I told him.
“Well, strike me roan!” Fie
took my hand in a crushing grip.
“I didn’t know y’, Joe. But as
soon as we came out here, when
y’ took y’r coat off, I said to
myself, ‘I know that bloke.’
When I saw y’ in there in collar-
and-tie, I thought, ‘Here’s some
city mug tryin’ t’ be funny.’ So
I thought I’d push ’is face in.”
As someone once remarked —
perhaps it was Billy—there’s a
lot of pride knocking around
Toomalong. Decent pride, that is
—not dirty rotten stinking pride.
No one has a greater set on
dirty stinking rotten pride than
Billy Sawyer.
“And that was little Peggy
Bennett with y’ over by the fire?”
Billy continued. “I saw her when
we was cornin’ out. And the
blonde girl—who’s she?”
“A friend of Peggy’s.”
“ ’Course, I wouldn’t of sworn
if I’d known they was there.
Didn’t see them, tell y’ thd truth.
We was dry as after
muckin’ around with Mc-
Donald’s lousy stinkin’ sheep—
hullo, Bruce, didn’t see y’ there
—why didn’t y’ meet us at the
turn-off?”
“Missed you by half-an-hour,
Billy. Had to drive the old man
to Coota.”
“Off again, is he? We had
bloody awful trouble gettin’ 'em
over the Hump, Bruce. Anyway,
Joe, we didn’t see the girls. I’ll
buy ’em a drink. And when y'
chipped me, I thought I’ll show
this flash what’s what.
I’ll collar-an’-tie him. Lucky for
you, Joe, I found out who y’
were.”
I felt I could agree with that,
without loss of standing.
“And who’s the other bloke?
Flash-lookin’ bloke in a collar-
an’-tie?”
“Tom. Friend of mine.”
Tom edged forward, “How
are you? I’m Tom Dean. From
Sydney,” he added, grinning.
He was, after all, a nice bloke.
“From Sydney? . . . Oh, well.
Any friend of yours, Joe. Put
it here.”
Tom’s hand, too, went into
the mangle.
“What are we doin’ here?”
Billy demanded. “Come inside.
I’ll buy y’ a beer. I’ll buy y’r
mate one. And the girls. Must
apologise t’ the girls.”
We all trooped back into the
bar, principals, seconds, disap-
pointed onlookers. “Hang it,”
said Billy, “I’ll buy everyone a
beer. Fill ’em up, Roy.”
TT was a memorable night. One
•*- of those nights Toomalong
turns on, occasionally, out of the
depths of her generosity and
pride; something more than a
party ; expressive, in a wild way,
of the genius of the country, the
granite-spined ridges, the fury of
bushfires and the coolness of
willows, stampedes of cattle, and
horses galloping under the moon.
Such nights cannot be arranged.
I woke to feel my neck stiff,
and the wind from the side-
window blowing in my face,
trees looming fleetingly from the
dark paddocks under the head-
lights of the car. “Hullo,” I said
dazedly. Then I remembered
helping Tom into Peggy’s car.
“You’re awake, are you?”
Peggy’s eyes were narrowed, in-
tent on the road. She swung on
the wheel, round a sharp bend,
and we skimmed down the hill
towards the long shadow I recog-
nised as Butlers’ Creek. “I must
say you’re a bright pair.”
“Where’s Tom?”
“In the back. Dead-drunk.”
I switched on the roof-light
and inspected him, switched it
off.
“And where’s Dawn?”
“Ah!”
She braked swiftly to avoid a
cow, lurching out cf the dark-
ness beside the road, drove on
slowly for perhaps four-hundred
yards, then swung round in a
U-turn, facing the way we had
come. She switched off the
headlights.
“Where’s Dawn?” I asked
again. “And what are we doing
here, anyway. Unless—er . . .”
a thought occurred to me.
But Peggy shrugged off my
cousinly arm impatiently.
“Not what you think,” she
said coolly. Her head turned and
I could tell she was inspecting
me, although her face was in
darkness. “This big-bad-wolf-
from-the-city business gets a
bit monotonous, you know, Joe,”
she said conversationally.
No doubt it does. But I hadn’t
been guilty of any such pose,
so far as I knew. “Well, I must
say you local girls show plenty
of interest in anyone I do bring
up from the city,” I said resent-
fully. “Almost an indecent
interest,” I muttered.
“Well, you can’t blame us for
that,” Peggy said, and lapsed
into silence.
I broke it: “Where have we
been?”
“Driving around,” Peggy said
bitterly. “Looking for Dawn,
first. Then just driving around.
And a fat lot of use you two
have been, I must say!”
I couldn’t work it out. I
fumbled in my pocket, found a
packet with a couple of cigar-
ettes in it, and offered one to
Peggy. We smoked.
Then I saw the cows coming
down the road. The Toomalong
cows have regular habits. Every
night they parade through the
street —the main street —coming
in from their grazing on the
southern side of the town ; past
the post-office, the bank, the
cafe, the three hotels, then
swinging left across the wooden
bridge and up the hill on the far
side. This, regularly, at half-
past eight: at which hour,
except for a lighted window here
and there, darkness has settled
on the town.
But the cows make a return-
journey. Down the hill, over
the bridge, and down the street
again, to the same insolent
rhythm. At this hour only
lovers mark their passing. And
here they came, a dark proces-
sion, down the hill. Stimulated
by the familiar sight, my arm
crept round Peggy’s shoulders.
We’re not cousins, really. She
kept her back glued to the back
of the seat, denying my arm the
opportunity to slide down. A
mule of a girl.
We watched the cows. The
road was a lane of drifting white,
like a vapor-trail among storm-
clouds, and beyond and beside
its main curve Bald Hill rose to
the sky, a flank of emptiness,
scattered rock glittering in the
brilliant moonlight, and the
curled peak black against a
sprinkling of stars. A fox
barked.
They came slowly, steadily,
with their swinging walk, one
after the other; moonlight
glinting on a tossed horn, here
and there, and their scent grow-
ing stronger in the cold air.
The hour belonged to them.
They grew larger, like creatures
from an older world in which
men and animals and gods were
more kin, drawn from the dark
earth by the misty, magnetic
moonlight, conjured up. But,
still, cows. One stopped and
humped and relieved herself,
making a noise like rain.
“Look!” said Peggy.
T LOOKED. It was a
minotaur.
A weirder monster than
any of Crete —two human heads,
leaning together, and an unmis-
takable bovine body. The
creature moved into a clearer
light, and I could make out
the figure of a man, a woman’s
drooping head.
“No!” exclaimed Peggy.
Sullivan’s brindle cow —a big,
rawboned beast; and Billy ; and
Dawn. A wild Dawn, with her
hair tossed, riding on the bony
back on a sort of saddle of
Billy’s coat, one hand on Billy’s
shoulder, giggling helplessly.
Billy with the cow’s horns locked
in his big hands, his face shin-
ing with sweat, his hairy chest
heaving. Dawn had lost a
shoe.
“Oh, no!” Peggy moved like
quicksilver, opened the door,
but I managed to catch her
wrist and pull her back.
“Look!” she said, and
stopped.
I could feel her thoughts
racing: Dawn, her friend, the
route through the main street,
someone would see, the talk . . .
“Look,” I said soothingly;
“what good can you do?”
“But . .
I knew what she meant.
Billy wasn’t eligible; he wasn’t
even a bachelor.
He was, perhaps, an earth-
god. Some powerful satyr come
up from the willows.
The brindle cow tossed her
head: “Whoa!” said Billy,
bracing back.
But the brindle cow was
determined. She tossed her
head more violently, and Dawn
gave a little scream. Brindle set
off at a lurching gallop, Billy
dragging against her head, but
the sudden slope aiding the cow.
“Oh, oh, oh,” sang out Dawn,
clinging desperately to Billy, to
the cow, bouncing, her skirt
around her waist, firm thighs
gleaming. “Oh, Billy, I’m
slipping ! ”
* “Whoa, hang on, whoa, ho,
ho, ho!” Gargantuan laughter
mingling with the cow’s indig-
nant bawls, and Dawn’s silver
screams, as they capered beneath
the moon. Somewhere, far
away, a bull’s sobbing
challenge ; and, very faint, an
echoing “Ho, ho, ho! ”
“She’ll be killed,” said Peggy.
“All those rocks! ”
“I don’t think so,” I said.
Then: “Who’d have ever
thought she’d be so silly V’—
thoughtfully.
Again: “That Billy Sawyer,
of all people ...”
“Nichyevo sebya,” Peggy said
out of the silence, and laughed
with a totally unexpected gaiety
and abandon.
Tom slept.
narrow hallway was lit, too,
illuminating the Wingless Vic-
tory on her perch, the spotted
engravings of “The Fair
Trespassers.”
“It’s the familiar things we
value,” Old Ike said to Man
Thomas as they waited, a little
behind the crouching dog, to
take the horses’ heads and lead
them to the stables, for the
sound of trotting hooves came
very clearly now; the lights of
two vehicles showed at the turn-
ing where the road skirted the
church-tower.
“A strip of linoleum, a worn
oakum mat, a couple of pictures
and a broken statuette —if you
were to ask a man, in his heyday,
like, what he would come to
love best in his life —he’d then
hardly think such things were
worth coming back from the
grave to see. But that’s what a
man might come to see —things
that had spelt home to him.
Oye.”
And Old Ike changed his plug
from one cheek to the other.
Both waiting men felt so
strong a conviction that an
unseen figure was leaning over
the gate, waiting, too, beside the
tired dog, that they were reluct-
ant to open it. They ran back
through the stable-yard and out
by the slip-rails, to take charge
of the gig and the smart, brand-
new phaeton, in which the bride
was sitting, so radiantly happy,
beside her husband.
And did that ghostly watcher
see her as she stepped gaily out,
in all the frippery that her rich
marriage had brought her? Did
he see the tippet of white fur
(better than any gift of his), the
velvet “Dolly Varden,” pink
daisies under the brim, wide
ribbons tied so sparkishly under
her rounded chin? She had a
grand poplin dress all furbelows
and flounces, a sunshade with an
ivory handle and Paris gloves.
The men, holding the heads
of the two horses, watched the
two children, Juliet and Donal-
bain, who had been wedged in
the gig between their grand-
parents, jump out and race to
the gate. They opened it, to
rush, laughing, through it, and
the collie dog, who, not once
since his master’s death had
noticed the children, trotted,
barking after them. He jumped
up to lick Donalbain’s face,
making much of the little boy,
as a dog knows how.
“And is that pale ghost wait-
ing to see all this?” Old Ike
wondered, taking note of all that
went on.
Cook and Abigail the
orphan came bustling out to
carry in some- of the inn \ 1 ■ er-
able parcels that were being
taken from the phaston.
The old rector, leaning on
Mrs. McCree’s arm, went, in-
credibly slowly, up the dim path-
way. The new housemaid came
rustling out, in a starched apron,
a starched cap, a starched dress,
full of importance, to ask
whether the mustard had been
forgotten. She stayed by the
gig to tease Man Thomas, who
was shy with women.
In the midst of all this talk
and laughter the bride, laden
with packages, .ran up to the
house, eager to open the presents
that she, in her new-found
affluence, had bought for every-
one.
Boy Jonathan and Mike then
came running round the side of
the house, to say, in surprised
voices to Man Thomas and Old
Ike, “The mare’s back!”
Old Ike winked at Man
Thomas. “Yes, she came back
—the bolt was unlatched and
she got out —she’s all right.”
Astonished, Boy Jonathan
went off to return the borrowed
horse.
“Is that the way it’s to be?”
Mike muttered, for the new
master, coming up to Old Ike,
was saying in his pleasant voice,
“You might saddle the grey mare
and bring her round about seven
tomorrow morning. I’ll try her
out and race her, perhaps, if she
is any good.”
“If she’s any good!” Mike
whispered to Man Thomas, get-
ting into the phaeton with him
as he drove round to the stables.
“The devil’s child has the
devil’s cheek,” Mike went on
under his breath. He’d be mov-
ing on, he thought.
The outdoor-servants, like the
housemaids, never waited long
at the rectory. Six months’
work qualified them to take
away with them the blankets
they had been given to sleep in,
in the barn over the stables:
Mike could claim his blankets.
He made up his mind to leave
Mallow’s Marsh just in the few
minutes it took to drive round
to the dilapidated coach-house.
As he drove the gig away Old
Ike looked back. Was the poor
ghost still sadly eyeing all he’d
lost?
Everything he had owned had
been divided among his friends,
or given away. He’d found his
horse, true, and his dog! What
of his wife? Would that
laughter, that jubilant life, that
was making the shabby drawing-
room as gay as a ballroom,
where the generous girl, who
till now had always been
stinted in her instinct for a
general benevolence, was hand-
ing out gifts—would their enjoy-
ment of a life lived without him
cut the poor, watching wraith to
such heart as had been left him?
Old Ike went off, still wondering.
TUG ghost, however audacious,
could have invaded the
revels of that rejoicing family.
But when Hesperus brought
the evening light to color the
purling river’s quiet waters (to
be heard by night, never by day),
when the risen moon was pour-
ing her white fire on the hills,
and the whole earth waited,
silently, for the renewal of love,
of night, the bride, the girl they
nicknamed “Peronel - Proud-
heart,” went to her bedroom-
window and looked out.
She tried to pierce the veil
that made familiar things so
anonymous in the dusk, where
even the weeds might give them-
selves a flower’s airs and graces.
She looked towards the
broken column, standing so
starkly up in the churchyard,
and she thought she could dis-
tinguish the dog, lying, watching,
his face on his paws, in the long
grass beside the grave.
She remembered the gladness
of an earlier spring, the young
husband now a stranger to her
sweet society. The little names,
the first night’s grace of that
earlier marriage, came back to
her.
How could she excuse herself?
How could she justify herself?
“The dead forget their
sorrows,” she told her unhappy
heart.
And so thinking she looked
down. She saw looking up at
her, white in the moonlight, her
first husband’s face; not sad,
not reproachful. She seemed to
hear his voice, saying softly, “I
now know a love that quiets my
will, that makes me desire only
what I have, and gives me no
other thirst.”
Looking down, all their life
together became valid, as they
say the life of a drowning person
becomes, all in one moment.
Experiencing it, she knew that
nothing dies.
Standing in the moonlight by
the open window in her bridal
finery, she realised that every
moment in life is eternal, that
what once has been is eternally
a fact, that each minute is ever-
lasting.
The smile that passed between
the dead husband and the living
wife was that “innumerable
smile” that embraces life and
death and the whole panorama
of the universe, and both their
tremulous faces showed the
same look of peace, of recon-
ciliation.
AN arm, a hand came over her
silken shoulder and pulled
down the blind,
looking as if they had been
attacked by wild pigs.
The shape of things to come in
Papua was seen in neat estate-
schools for youngsters of em-
ployees, kindergartens and elab-
orate plantation-hospitals. Hous-
ing of workers was appropriate
to their advancing living-
standards. We do not neglect
these elementals, having our own
hospitals, schools and recreation
facilities, but in Malaya em-
ployees’-lines are more in the
nature of self-contained villages.
Smaller P./N.G. estates have
been able in the past to set up
villages near their plantations,
breeding a permanent supply
keen personal interest in the
welfare of every individual on
of workers who know their jobs,
their employer and the estate,
with manager in these cases,
often the owner too, taking a
his property. It is a happy atmo-
sphere, it is the trend, and allow-
ances should be made for in-
creasing planning in this respect
in the future, so much more sen-
sible than hit-and miss methods
which have to be used now.
Planters’ Association of
Malaya publications tell of latest
work in breeding new planting-
materials, in improved methods,
mechanisation, manufacture,
marketing. Assistants there are
graded by years of “apprentice-
ship,” taking regular examina-
tions in languages, agriculture,
mechanics, surveying, business
procedures, and all the other
subjects with which a planter of
any country must be familiar.
Too often, young Australians
are sent to manage P./N.G.
plantations, learning their job
from senior boss-boys as they
work. We would do well to think
of some sort of schooling and
practical examinations, with
grading and pay according to
efficiency.


NOVELS IN CONSTANT DEMAND
SARA DANE by
BULLS OF PARRAL by
POMPEY’S HEAD by
WILD BROTHER by
SCALES OF JUSTICE by
Catherine Gaskin 16s. Od.
Marguerite Steen .... 18s. 9d.
Hamilton Basso 18s. 9d.
Mary Patchett 1 3s. 6d.
Ngaio Marsh 1 3s. 6d.
COLLINS
Available Soon
THE PETROV STORY
(Unabridged)
MICHAEL BIALOGUSKI
PLACE YOUR ORDER NOW
At all booksellers - - - - 18/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
THE NEW NOVELS
THE GOOD SHEPHERD
by C. S. Forester —the Story of an
allied convoy during the battle of
the Atlantic. 15/6 (post 9d.)
NOT AS A STRANGER
by Morton Thompson—a powerful
American novel about a young doctor’s
struggle to retain his integrity in the
complex world of modern medicine.
22/6 (post 1/5)
POMPEY’S HEAD
by Hamilton Basso. “A book of
such controlled art and quiet distinc-
tion that it should win wide critical
acclaim. And its human warmth and
charm should make it immensely
popular.” (New York Times).
18/9 (post 1/1)
COROMANDEL!
by John Masters —the latest novel
about India by the author of Bliowani
Junction. 15/6 (post lid.)
You’ll find these, and all the books you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagli Street, Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
One of them, when the climbers were
marooned by incessant storm in their
Camp VIII, high up near the summit,
developed blood-clots in first one leg,
then the other, then in his chest. He
was probably dying in any case, but
his only possible chance lay in being
taken off the mountain.
So, trying to haul and carry him
down the steep slopes, first over snow
that threatened to avalanche, then over
ice-covered rock, in territory where it
is all a man can do to maintain his
balance and breathe in the thin air
without an extra burden, they set out
in storm down the mountain: “We all
knew now some of us might never get
down alive.” The disaster came not
long after they had started: —
Something threw Bell off balance
and he fell. I never saw Bell fall,
but to my horror I saw Streather
being dragged off the slope and
making desperate efforts to jam the
pick of his axe into the ice and
stop. Streather had been standing
above the rope from Houston to
me. In almost the same instant I
saw Houston swept off, and though
I turned and lunged at the hard ice
with the point of my axe, a terrible
jerk ripped me from my hold and
threw me backward headfirst down
the slope.
Five of the eight climbers fell in one
wild tangle to the brink of a preci-
pice—one of them was over it—when
miraculously they were checked: by a
unique chance their ropes fouled the
line by which Schoening, with his axe
belayed against a boulder, was hold-
ing the sick man, Gilkey; and Schoen-
ing was able to hold all five of them.
All were shaken and more-or-less
injured by the fall, especially Houston,
who had concussion and was half out
of his mind—that night in their tent
on a perilous ledge over an abyss he
kept trying to claw a hole in the fabric,
saying that he must have more air;
the next day he developed a habit of
sitting down in the snow and asking
“Where are we? What are we doing
here?” and the same night in the tent
he kept trying to crawl outside, declar-
ing “If I can just get out of this ware-
house everything will be all right.”
But Houston recovered. The tragic
thing—one of the strangest scenes in
all mountaineering history—was what
happened to Gilkey, the sick man. He
was not involved in the fall; and after
it, anchoring him safely, they left him
alone on the slope for a short time
while they built an ice-platform against
the ridge on which to pitch their tents.
They heard him calling once or twice,
apparently cheerfully. Streather, Craig
and Bates roped-up to bring him to the
tent; and found, to their utter dismay,
that he had been swept away by an
avalanche:—
The wind had dropped as we
reached the rock-rib and looked into
the gully where Art had been left
suspended. What we saw there I
shall never forget. The whole slope
was bare of life. Art Gilkey was
gone! Our sick comrade, who had
called to us a few minutes before,
had disappeared. Even the two ice-
axes used to anchor him safely had
been torn loose. The white, wind-
swept ice against which he had been
resting showed no sign that anyone
had ever been there. It was as if the
hand of God had swept him away.
Continuing as the rest of the climbers
struggle slowly down to safety, it is a
grim story of tragedy and fortitude,
vividly and economically told. K 2 was
conquered by the Italians in 1954; and
that cost a life, too—Mario Puchoz,
who died suddenly of pneumonia at
Camp 111.
No Potatoes
It is always so pleasant to be able
to eat your lawn, like a kind of
suburban sheep, that one is not quite
sure that one can give Mr. T. R. N.
Lothian’s The Practical Home
Gardener (appropriately published by
Lothian) the enthusiastic welcome it
deserves.
For of course all the neighbors, who
seem to know what to do in these
important affairs, put in a crop of
potatoes before they sow grass-seed or
plant runners of couch in their new
lawns; thus, so they maintain, enabling
themselves to clear the ground of weeds
and, at the same time, frugally to
supply the household with potatoes . . .
which are bound to come to fruition
when potatoes are too plentiful and
cheap to be worth growing anyhow.
So there one was, neck-deep in the
paspalum between the back porch and
the small-house, chewing-up the pros-
pective lawn yard by yard with a
mattock and at last holding a potato
poised above the beautiful virgin mud;
and along comes Mr. Lothian and says
—in black type, too: —
If you wish to utilise the site, grow
vegetables by all means, but do not
grow potatoes. These are normally
moulded-up and while doing so
weeds are destroyed, but after the
crop has been lifted and the area
levelled, undulations will occur soon
afterwards. These occur with the
differences in the firmness of the
soil; where the potato rows have
been it is soft and likely to sink,
but as the “pathways” are more
consolidated they will “stand up.”
Surface-rooting crops such as onions,
beans, lettuce, tomatoes, etc., are
much better.
Very well, then, no potatoes. It is
a deadly blow, but at least when all
the neighbors suffer from undulations,
one will be able to tell them that they
should have read Mr. Lothian. And
indeed if one had only read him before
putting in that patch of New Zealand
moss-lawn, which was going to save one
from all lawn-mowing for ever, one
would have been saved a great deal of
bother: for every time you weeded it
the whole tump of moss came up and
turned yellow, and when you let it
alone it rapidly became a patch of
couch, paspalum, blackberry, dande-
lion, oxalis and, for some reason never
adequately explained by one’s wife,
African marigolds. Mr. Lothian says,
with what bitter truth, that the “moss”
is
suitable only if used for small areas
or amongst crazy-paving. The main-
tenance required to keep it free
from weeds, even after the sward
has closed, together with the rolling
required to keep the surface even,
limits its usefulness. Further, it is
subject to certain diseases . . .
But one must not, absorbed in this
fascinating subject, convey the impres-
sion that “The Practical Home
Gardener” is all about lawns and
potatoes: it is about everything in
flowers, fruit, shrubs and vegetables
that the home-gardener wants to know
or grow; with some slight emphasis on
Adelaide, where Mr. Lothian is director
of the Botanic Garden, but carefully
planned to be useful anywhere in Aus-
tralia. It is longer and larger than most
garden-books—3s3 pages—fully illus-
trated with photographs and, from the
point-of-view of format and readability,
as nicely laid-out as a bed in Mr.
Lothian’s Botanic Garden.
Reviewed Briefly
Australian Test Journal: John Arlott
(Georgian House). The 1954-55
Australia-v.-England Tests. There’s
an introduction, the full story of each
Test (the English team’s other games
aren’t covered) and an “After-
thoughts.” In the introduction Arlott
justifies the diary-form he uses—
“more likely than the subsequent
‘historical’ view to preserve the day-to-
day, or minute-to-minute, excitement of
a cricket-match effectively prevents
that infuriating wisdom after the
event.” His summing-up is that the
English XI, having a finer and more
determined spirit, was slightly the better
of two indifferent teams, neither of
which could be ranked with the great;
the only “great” he grants either side
is Australia’s fielding. One slip:
Graveney’s 111 in the fifth Test not
listed with May’s and Cowdrey’s
among the English Test-centuries
scored.
* * * *
Neith Farm: Joan E. Evans (Master-
craft Printing Co., 66 Bathurst-street,
Sydney). A novel about the early days
in Sydney and along the Hawkesbury,
in which the most notable character is
a stalwart Victorian papa who on one
occasion declares of his three marriage-
able daughters, “I’ll throw one away
on a rogue, one on a soldier, and when
I get back I’ll offer the other one to
the convict. Then I’ll be done with
the lot of them, and good riddance,
too.” At the end the flighty daughter
is drowned, the other two married. The
story is romantic and the style
unsophisticated; but it makes a lively
book, and readers with a taste for
period-settings will find plenty of bears,
blackfellows, bushrangers, convicts and
colonial history.
Australian books in Constable’s
spring list, all due shortly to arrive in
this country, are: Dymphna Cusack’s
new novel The Sun in Exile, about the
West Indian negroes who are giving
London its extraordinary color-
problem; Little and Orphan, an auto-
biography by Bernard Hesling; Keep
Him My Country, a novel about
station life and the aborigines by Mary
Durack; Jim Brady, the first of a pro-
jected series of naval novels by J. E.
Macdonnell, and Captain Mettle, V.C.,
a naval yarn for boys by the same
author, writing under the nom-de-
plume of James Macnell.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 338
Across
I— In leaving to invade me with a
guide-book. (4, 5)
6—The wall in the French monkey-
like animal. (5)
for punting on steam-
yacht prows. (7)
10— Land high up in a crashed plane.
(5)
ll Smelly door smashed nothing but
us at last. (7)
12—The lunatic is off his toy sculp-
ture of her Majesty. (6)
]s—She has ear trouble. (3)
16—One New Guinea half-century is
in New Hampshire, this being a
description of New Hampshire
after 1776. (3-7)
18—Edge with looped and knotted
thread. (3)
10— Theatrically this is old Patrick.
0)
22—Absorb a quadruped accompany-
ing him carelessly to the first
person behind time. (10)
-I—Elizah has lost this deal with a
bookie. (3)
26—1 transport you and me and he
whose wax wings were melted
by the sun. (6)
2/— Habituating one to batting
against you and a Victorian
spinner. (7)
29 part of the Orient is an
honorable one. (5)
30— About to shout and run. away.
(7)
31 — Long soup is full of such fools.
(7) ■ ,
32 — Phoenician goddess is beginning
in the middle. (7)
Down
1 — Blueblood figure is to calculate.
(8)
2 Concession figure is to calculate.
(8)
3 Error in a poll figure is to peer.
(8 > r . . .
4 Supporter of painting in cress
shows no sign of folding. (10)
5 Obliged for unfermented grape-
juice. (4)
6 Savage country or Walter also.
(6)
7 Comedian to jab a bird. (6)
8— Stationery administrators. (6)
13 — It is a trifling objection that only
one six is scored in 150. (5)
14 — Plant like the Tra of Pidi. (10)
17 —He tucks in an order to commit
regicide by cannibalism. (5)
19 — Poisonous half-dozen govern the
Northern Territory. (8)
20 — Scantier modification is inter-
rupting the run of a horse tin. (8)
21 — European capital is in the Baby-
lonian god class. (8)
23 Republican licking a layer plant
without flowers. (6)
24 Bathing-house gets the sack
before turning in the ring. (6)
25 — Burrow into a barrel with the
half-nelson. (6)
28—Risk when changing tires. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 337


aAV-
■m
n
A
H JUt —c
: J»i
■*<>
S?^
; • >% 'r#
f c
;V
up -.-;
(f^
>*"
r
--
Ml
IX*
A
'S»*n
>v
m
mmZits
wt-
\ia
«s
.••VfcrS
«r.-
:
,
PI
ar. TS
- ■
ir-r
■
s:' >■:
"Si*-
SiSS
La
iM
«■
\- H If .1 J . 1
; /JjJLjJ-a-A — 1
''lAilUtK'y
LL I
1 <
itli <
Li
The Cage is Gone
It looks as though some giant hand had brushed back the
covering earth and laid bare a colossal subterranean river
of brown coal. A series of falls, terraced one behind the
other, spill their fortune as hungry machines eat their way
slowly along, filling truckload after truckload.
Rising in billows like spray around the excavators is the
mist of coal dust —a choking, gritty cloud thrown off as
the solid seam of brown coal shatters and crumbles under
massive steel shovels.
■ ...
Thundering around the cliffs of this man-made canyon is
the task force of big, powerful Caterpillar D 8 Tractors
hauling 20-ton Caterpillar Scrapers. Back and forth they
shuttle, scraping away the overburden ahead of the
excavators to unearth the 100' deep brown coal seam and
dumping the load in the worked-out bed at the rear.
★ ★ ★
It’s a far cry from the day when miners filed into their
cage at the Maddingley Pit Head at Bacchus Marsh, 31 miles
out of Melbourne.
Output in those days reached 250 tons a week. Now, as
an open cut mine, Maddingley produces 10,500 tons
during the daylight hours one week, and reserves are
sufficient to produce 12,000 tons a week for at least 50
years.
Maddingley brown coal is cheap, too. Because of the
economical and efficient way in which heavy Caterpillar
earthmoving equipment clears the relatively shallow over-
burden, and the short rail trip to Melbourne, Bacchus
Marsh coal is the cheapest fuel available to industrial
consumers.
The continued development of Maddingley Open Cut has
been planned for many years ahead. The coal seam will
continue to be worked, and, as the coal is removed, over-
burden will be placed in the worked-out section of the cut.
The original level, when restored, will be graded and top-
soiled to enclose an artificial lake.
★• ★ ★
Right throughout Australia, rugged, heavy-duty Caterpillar
track-type Tractors, Graders and earthmoving equipment,
are working the land for its wealth; building roads,
excavating for hydro-electric projects, pushing and pulling
for engineers and farmers alike, playing no small part in
our national development.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Distributors:
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
QLD.: HASTINGS DEERING—QUEENSLAND PTY.
LTD., BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
TAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., ENFIELD.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS PEERING (N.T.) PTY.
LIMITED, ALICE SPRINGS.
NEW GUINEA: HASTINGS DEERING (NEW GUINEA}
PTY. LIMITED, LAE.
