

/
-w,
mam
e
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
WOOL ISSUE
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3929
Wednesday, June .
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
A MONO the many relics of ancient
Border warfare which still exist in
the Scottish Lowlands is Neidpath Castle,
one of the best-preserved of the Border
towers. This picturesque fortress stands
on a hill beside the River Tweed a mile
from Peebles and is a prominent feature
of the surrounding landscape. It is
approached along a path which was orig-
inally a broad avenue lined with the
famous Neidpath yew-trees. Bows made
from these yews were used by the
Crusaders, and although some fine speci-
mens of these trees still remain, most of
them were destroyed in 1795 by “Old Q,”
the notorious member of the Queensberry
family. This act of vandalism was de-
nounced in a sonnet by Wordsworth.
Burns, also in a sonnet, deplored a simi-
lar action by the degenerate duke at
Drumlanrig.
Owing to its picturesque location Neid-
path has for centuries been a favorite
subject for painters, while its associations
with a sad tale of romance have been im-
mortalised by Sir Walter Scott. The
legend concerns the love-affair of Lady
Mary Douglas and the young laird of
Tushielaw. The parents of both parties
thought the match unsuitable, and the
youth was sent abroad. During the long
absence of her lover Mary became
gravely ill; on his return she was so
emaciated that he failed to recognise her,
Whereupon she died in the arms of her
attendant. In the words of Sir Walter
Scott:
“Disease had been in Mary’s bower,
And slow decay from mourning,
Though now she sits on Neidpath’s tower
To watch her love s returning.
'“All sunk and dim her eyes so bright,
Her form decayed by pining,
Till through her wasted hand, at night,
You saw the taper burning ...
He came —he passed—a heedless gaze,
As o'er some stranger glancing.”
Above the doorway to the courtyard
in the castle is the crest of the Earls of
Tweeddale. The second Earl held Neid-
path for Charles II during the Civil War.
It was captured after prolonged siege
by Cromwell's forces, who battered the old
tower with cannon. In 1686 the castle
was bought by the first Duke of Queens-
fcerry, whose worthless successor, “Old
Q,” was the one denounced by
Wordsworth.
No. 248: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
IN A NEIDPATH CELL, MARY DOUGLAS PINED AWAY


If you liave the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters: —
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stotts Correspondence Coileqe j
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St, Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 264 Murray St., Perth.
—.— —CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON ———*
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
my name
ADDRESS
(S.B. 1155)... AGE.
You’re looking for a book? BOOKHUNTER
will find it for you —any book from any-
where Quick service moderate charges
Write to BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit the metropolitan area
and pay cash. Correspondence
from country or inter-State
invited.
BERKELOUW
the kingsway,
ROSEVILLE, N.S.W. JYII3I
The Red Page
"CHILD WITH A COCKATOO"
There is a method pf criticism much
used by Edith Sitwell, which consists
of i wg a poem ,o pieces rhyme by
rhyme, word by w d, syllable by
syllable and even -er by letter in
order to fine out exactly what makes
it tick. It is a precise and illuminating
method but liable to become tedious in
the complexity of detail; after a while
the mind simply refuses to follow Miss
Sitwell at her snail’s-pace through
“Macbeth,” pausing to examine each
vowel and chewing ai each delectable
consonant.
However, at the risk of becoming
equally tedious, I do think that the
first thing to be said about Rosemary
Dobson’s Child with a Cockatoo
(Angus and Robertson) is something
about her technique; for after all,
before they reform the world, travel
into outer space or recreate their
women or their wombats, poets must
prove they are poets: makers of music,
skilled craftsmen in patterns of sound.
Reading Rosemary Dobson’s poems
in “The Bulletin” and the yearly
“Australian Poetry” anthologies, where
most of those in “Child with a
Cockatoo” were first printed, I used to
wonder how she tied them together,
conveying the effect of most delicate
rhyme and music without, apparently,
rhyming them at all. It is a rare
achievement to make lyrical music, as
distinct from the flowing rhythms of
blank verse, out of poems without
rhyme.
Or, rather, for the poems do usually
have rhyme when you look into them,
to make so fine and firm a music out
of so sparse a pattern of rhymes. Here,
for instance, is a stanza from the first
poem in the book, “The Raising of the
Dead.” The five lines, when anybody
else might find it necessary to have
them all rhymed in one combination
or another to hold the music together,
are bound in their pattern by only a
single pair, “down” and “gown.” Yet
—and full of emotion, too, as the
people crowd to see the dead young
man restored to life by the angels in
the painting—the music is clear and
unfaltering:—
They lift the hand left limp by death
And stir the stiffly painted gown,
The wind of life is on their lips,
The holy gold about their heads:
Thus has the painter set them down.
In the first stanza of “The Raising of
the Dead” one very soon spots what
Rosemary Dobson has been doing: a
line ending with “step” is unrhymed
but, two lines further back, in the midst
of the text, the emphasis falls on
“leper”: so the verses are being held
together, as indeed one would expect,
by what one calls internal-rhyme.
“Lep” and “step.”
But how subtle, how intricate, how
much beyond expectation, are the
devices that have gone to make the
music of the stanza just quoted! How
like the very sigh of wonder from the
crowd, the soft exhalation of its breath,
is that line “They lift the hand left limp
by death”! “Lift” and “limp” and
“stir” and “stiffly”; “wind” and “hand”
and “life” and “lips”—here is just
about every form of assonance, allitera-
tion, internal-rhyme, dissonance and
internal-consonant-rhyme for which
the technicians have a label.
Why do those nervous, tiptoeing
short “i’s” and breathless “fs” sud-
denly change to the broad, rolling
“o’s” and melodious “Fs” of “The holy
gold about their heads”? Because the
angels have now restored the dead man
to life, and the music must be loud
with triumph.
These are not devices which a poet
conscientiously and self-consciously
“works into” his verses. If you do that,
you may get the ingenuity of
Tennyson’s famous
The moan of doves in immemorial elms
And murmur of innumerable bees
but you do not get the freshness of
Wordsworth’s more artless music,
which personally I like far more: —
Where rivulets dance their wayward
round,
And beauty born of murmuring sound
Shall pass into her face.
A knowledge of technique is neces-
sary, of course, especially in “polish-
ing” after the poem is substantially
completed; in selecting the right word
of two or more that may submit them-
selves; but in general these felicities,
the living texture of the poem, must
arrive as the poem itself arrives, out
of nowhere; or wherever poems and
their words and their music do come
from.
You find in the poems of “Child
with a Cockatoo” all kinds of these
fascinating variations on the basic
pattern of rhyme. You find even, when
“arm” is quite outrageously put to do
duty with “upon,” some considerable
liberties taken. Yet everything “works”;
nothing looks like mere laziness or
faultiness of ear or an attempt to make
“new” music when the old might well
be better, as off-rhymes of various kinds
Io often do look in contemporary
>oetry. Everything seems the almost-
mconscious artistry of a born poet —
ind one with impeccable good-taste.
That is enough—and perhaps too
nuch—of the complexities of tech-
lique. But it is the sum of those
jffects, whether hushed with awe as in
‘The Lost” or lightly gay as in “The
Vlasquerade” (held together with no
zither “rhyme” than the refrain of
‘Lady to Ambassador —Ambassador
to Lady”) that helps to make this book
as delightful as it is distinctive in
Australian poetry.
I think it is true to say, much as I
have admired “In a Convex Mirror”
and “The Ship of Ice,” that it is in
this, her third book, that Rosemary
Dobson has for the first time clarified
and made manifest her personal vision
of life; has created a world of her own.
What was gay, imaginative, always
attractive before has here crystallised
into something at once more tangible
and more durable. She has come out of
fairytale into life.
This is because of a deepening in the
emotional tone; and, no doubt, a
general maturing of outlook. I do not
mean an emotional deepening only in
the more personal poems, all
exquisitely beautiful, grouped together
at the end; nor do I mean that Rose-
mary Dobson is here dealing, except—
in general—at a distance, with life in
what she calls “The Wildwood” —
where the painter bursts out into the
night: —
The stag who from the thicket leapt
With all the fury of the wild
Was by the holy hermit tamed;
The leopard lay down with the child.
The bear, the wolf, the fox subdued—
All these the painter showed, and more,
Then overturned his pots of paint
And threw his brushes on the floor.
Out in the thickets of the night,
The wildwood world of hate and greed,
Driven by lust, impelled by fear,
He had his will, he took his need.
Ah, hasten, holy men, step down
From out the pictures’ webs of paint;
Artists, no less than beasts and birds,
Have need of taming by a saint.
Rightly, because her talent seldom
requires it of her, she does not herself
plunge into the “wildwood” for
her subject-matter. She is an artist in
words who is interested in the sister-
craft of painting. She is attracted to
medieval art and seems to reveal, under
her mask of comedy, a rather wistful
inclination towards the miracles and
mysticism which it depicts. She is
witty, she is graceful and she is—a very
odd word to use these days, but I do
not know any other which will so aptly
describe her aristocratic reserve and
air of amused detachment—a lady.
But what she has everywhere in this
book, if rarely a pass' mate intensity,
is warmth of feeling; for art, for
Nature, for children, for the grace of
life, for humanity. It is in that lovely
picture of Florence in the spring where
Nature and art combine in the one
sunlit enchantment while
■.... but five steps from where we lay
Drowsing upon the short-cropped grass
Lightly, with all her springtime flowers,
Did Botticelli’s Flora pass.
It is in the tenderness of that most
exquisite piece “Detail from an
Annunciation by Crivelli” where the
little girl swears she was present at a
miracle:—
I saw the Dove, I saw the Lady
Cross her hands upon her breast;
I heard a music, and a shining
Came upon my eyes to rest.
Look upon the painter’s picture,
See, he shows you where I hid,
What I saw and how I listened —
You believe me that I did?
It is in the portrait-studies of the old
artists, which no doubt derive from
Browning but which have her own
humor and grace; as when Francesco
Calvi, “attentive to angels, diligent
with lilies,” paints a religious fresco all
day upon the walls of the chapel and
at last puts himself in the picture: —
And joins his angels grouped about the
Virgin.
The legend says they sang an Ave of
welcome
Till all the monks turned over in their
slumbers
And climbed a further rung up Jacob’s
ladder.
It is in the aristocratic elegance of the
poems out of old France, “Azay-le-
Rideau” and “The Legend”; it is in
the circus and carnival poems, full of
joy and laughter; it is in the sensitive
(and most musical) Yesponse to both
the landscape and the drama of Aus-
tralia in the title-poem where the
cockatoo which somehow strayed
centuries ago into Verelst’s portrait of
Anne, daughter of the Duke of Bedford,
becomes a symbol of: —
Terra Australis, unimagined land —
Only that sulphur-crested bird could tell
Of dark men moving silently through
trees,
Of stones and silent dawns, of blackened
earth
And the long golden blaze of afternoon.
So one might find a meteor from the sun
Or sound one trumpet ere the play’s
begun.
With a child, with Nature and a
painting in it (and with that superb
concluding couplet) “Child with a
Cockatoo” makes an excellent title-
poem; but I think that the piece which
most completely expresses the feeling
of the whole book—if it is not the
Crivelli masterpiece is the
sympathetic comedy of “The
Bystander” where the man who
represents the ordinary run of humanity
in crowd-paintings or landscapes-with-
figures fails even to see the Devil when
he has the chance to: —
Once in a Garden—back view only
there —
How well the painter placed me, stroke
on stroke,
Yet scarcely seen among the flowers and
grass—
I heard a voice say “Eat” and would
have turned —
I often wonder who it was that spoke.
Here, then, is a poetry of the finest
technical accomplishment; gay,
graceful, witty, deep and humane; rare
and original in its subject-matter, set-
ting down a mature and distinctive
view of life. It is a poetry of objective
creation, the most difficult and most
rewarding of all to write, telling stories
and painting pictures of men and
women; and not the least of its claims,
to special favor in these sometimes mis-
judged but still admittedly difficult
times is that without any s.orifice of
intellectual quality its language _is
always delightfully simple, its meaning
instantly clear.
Douglas Stewart.
Katherine Mansfield
I The Journal of Katherine Mansfield,
iited by J. Middleton Murry (Con-
able). A melange of diary-entries,
bservations on life and literature,
tcerpts from scrapbooks, notes for
ories, unposted letters, etc., from
X)4-1922, is labelled the “definitive
iition” of the Journal.
It contains passages deliberately
deluded from the 1927 edition,
assages since deciphered from its
uthor’s exceedingly difficult hand-
rriting, items first published in the
Scrapbook” but in fact belonging here,
nd the contents of “two slender
olumes” of the “Journal” which, says
le dust-jacket, “Fourteen years ago
/ere stolen from Mr. Murry. These, by
fortunate accident, were recovered
/hile the new edition was in the press.”
The brief preface gives no further
particulars of this incident—it dis-
penses, too, with the biographical note
if the previous edition, which is
upplanted by the biographies,
specially those of Ruth Mantz (1933)
ind Anthony Alpers (1954), since
mblished.
The lost volumes contained entries
>f the unhappy return to New Zealand
n 1906 and further details of
Catherine’s unhappy love-affairs after
ihe went back to England.
Indubitably much of the additional
naterial is interesting—the early parts
nore for the extraordinarily accomp-
ished writing of a girl in her teens than,
perhaps, for their “sensational” con-
sent. No wonder Katherine’s much-
maligned Pa exercised close supervi-
sion over his daughter—it took her the
rest of her life to come to the conclu-
sion that what he had desired for her
happiness was not, after all, absurd ...
not that she ever acknowledged this
directly.
The “Journal” remains most fas-
cinating for its intimate picture of a
mind of great wit and clarity at work
on books, people and landscape.
This sort of writing redeems the book
from its fever, misery, frustration and
despair. To an extent Katherine Mans-
field’s writing is tinged by her ill-
health—not only the t.b. that killed
her but the rheumatic-fever with its
attendant heart-damage which plagued
her for years. But there was, at least,
never any sickness about her eyesight.
Recent Penguins
Recent Penguins include “The Build-
ing of England” series, with Cam-
bridgeshire as its target and half of the
buildings and their contents concen-
trated in Cambridge; The Art and
(Continued on page 67)


ij.jn.Mjrnr.mi
a
-CEB
1
ffIBUSCUITS
m
s
agamim
PROVISIONS
pP
GROCERIES
yvj
3
£1
«KF
r
t?§3
GROCERIES
vJ
W
Sydney 9 s
hiyyest grocery department
can supply you with
all your food needs;
we have a special selection of
to give every meal that
ton tinea tal d ifference
i
m
*ll*l
■Hi
: : x : :' ?
H-
*V;?
2
fair.
mm
mt
mm
m
On the Lower Ground Floor, entrance from Goulburn St., Anthony Horderns’ have a haven for the
lovers of those little tasties that make a meal so enjoyable. Continental foods and wines are a
speciality, and we take pride in our wide range, because we’ve gathered all the well-loved delicacies
and the new favourites from the world’s food centres.
ma
m
wmm
■
1. Seppelts Para Liqueur Port, 21/-
2. Chianti Italian red table wine, 17/-
3. Tio Peze Dry Sherry, Spanish, 31/3
4. Swedish Herring 3/8 tin
5. Fredenkroni Salmon lax, 4/6 tin
6. Tiny Dane Mini Fynla cheese, 5/-
\ <
7. Tia Maria Coffe Liqueur, Jamaican, 50/6
8. Imported Fillets of Brisling, anchovy
style. The price is only 3/6 per tin
9. Dusceldorf Mustard in Stein, 15/9 tin
10. Dutch Kaviar from Sechasennagen, 4/6
11. Chili Sauce from China. Priced at 3/11
j
12. Oyster Sauce from China. Priced at 5/-
13. Danish Blue Cheese, 1/11 and 3/10 ea.
(RUTH IN ADVERTISING
GROCERY DEPT., LOWER GROUND FLR., GOULBURN ST. ENTRANCE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 1,19 SS
Vol 76—No. 3929
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors!
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521 ii
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
WOOL AND AUSTRALIA
WOOL week falls this year almost on the 150th
anniversary of the arrival in the Argo of
John Macarthur’s first pure Merino sheep.
A few Spanish sheep had come eight years before
by courtesy of the Royal Navy, but these, though
they had a potent influence in establishing the fact
that good wool could be grown here, were large-
bodied animals from Holland. The Merinos of 1805
were pure stock from the Royal stud of King
George 111 at Kew, and their coming marked the
real beginnings of the organisation of a fine-wool
industry, of station- and marketing-technique and
of all that went to make the continent rich.
In the beginning there were few who had any
faith in the future of the industry. It owes its founda-
tion to only three or four men —Governor King,
Macarthur, William Cox and Samuel Marsden,
though only Macarthur and Cox were purely
wool men as distinct from sheep men. To them
we owe not merely insistence on the future of wool-
producing sheep and on the need for skill and care
in breeding, but the importation of suitable grasses
and the establishment of methods of sheep-raising
and of packing and preparing the clip for sale
which established the product on the world’s
markets in competition with the wools of Spain
and Saxony.
When the Merinos of 1805 were brought to
Sydney the population of New South Wales was
7064, one-third of them convicts and seven-eighths
of convict origin. There were 766 people in Van
Diemen’s Land, of whom 400 were convicts. The
continent held about 20,000 sheep. In the span of
two lifetimes on the Biblical scale the population
of the country has grown to over 9,000,000,
wflich is comparable with that of England and
Wales at the end of the 18th century; the sheep
have increased to more than 120 million. There
were no exports direct from the soil of the country
in 1805 —a few sealskins and some whale products
passed through Australian ports. It was
due to wool that our first real commercial exports
reached English markets despite long voyages, wet
ships, pirates and privateers. Wool was the first
Australian native product on record as being manu-
factured from the raw in England—Samuel
Marsden had his own fleece woven in 1807 and cut
into clothes which he wore when he went to visit
the King.
From the 2451 b. of wool sent to England in
1806 the output has grown to about 1,100,000,0001 b.
Australia today produces half of all the world’s
wool and better than five-sevenths of its Merino
wool. For more than a century it has set the
standards of quality of the world’s wool.
This has not been due to any accident. There
are thousands of Australians who still believe that
wool-growing is an unskilled industry, that the
wealth which has been almost entirely responsible
for the growth of the Commonwealth has risen
from natural conditions, that all that is needed to
produce wool is to put sheep on poor land unsuit-
able for crops, watch them grow and shear them.
In plain fact there is no more highly skilled
industry in the world, none more susceptible to
improvement and none in which improvement has
always been mere vital to meet a series of diffi-
culties and constantly rising costs of production.
Originally Australian wool broke into the
world market in competition with Spain, Saxony
and France, which were growing it under estab-
lished conditions only a few miles from the
London market, through the sheer persistence of
the Macarthur family in stock- and fleece-
improvement at Camden Park, and from their
sedulous study of the needs of the market and skill
and care in displaying and publicising the Aus-
tralian product in London in tfie years 1814-24.
Market organisation, when the demand had been
established, owed the bases of its simplified com-
plexity to Thomas Mort and others of his genera-
tion. And wool-improvement and the increase of
production per sheep were the work of a long
series of skilled experts—Sir William Macarthur, the
Coxes, Learmonths, Curries, Austins, Falkiners,
Mills, Merriman. None of these enjoys the prestige
with his fellow-countrymen of a cricket- or football-
star, perhaps; but the country owes them a debt
for having steered the industry to the point at
which wool has ceased to be a commodity, and can
almost be described as a currency—certainly the
basic staple of Australian prosperity.
The industry has achieved stability by constant
expenditure of thought, by pasture-improvement,
shearing-improvement and particularly by the long
and patient breeding experiments, sometimes
carried on almost to the point of the bankruptcy
of the experimenters, which has put more and more
wool on to the sheep and made Australian wool
better and finer in count.
The original sheep of John Macarthur’s prime
flock cut an average of 21b. 7oz. of wool. The best
ram which he brought from the Royal stud at Kew
in 1805 cut a little over 71b. The successive
improvement in output has been consistent and
steady. The average yield per sheep in N. S.
Wales had doubled by about 1880; it touched 61b.
for the first time in 1894, passed 71b. for the first
time in 1905, reached 81b. in 1925. The Australian
average was nearly 9£lb. in the bumper year of
1938-39 and today is reaching out for 101 b
South Australian average was well over 101 b. during
the past decade and, currently, is above 111 b.
John Macarthur’s best rams cut 71b. maximum
round 1805-07. One of his descendants cut up to
281 b. off his best rams last year.
This is an all-round indication of the improve-
ment that has been wrought, and it is typical of
every branch of the industry, which, incidentally, in
process of improvement, has been increasingly a
smaller man’s industry. The days of the great
pastoral barons and of flocks numbering hundreds
of thousands have faded into history with the
growth of the yield per sheep and the carrying-
capacity per acre. Today only about one-quarter
of Australia’s sheep are in flocks greater than 5000.
Nearly 50 million are grazed on properties carrying
under 2000.
The industry has not merely served Australia
well. It has been an inestimable boon to the United
Kingdom and to other manufacturing countries. Its
development, synchronising as it did with the begin-
nings of the Machine Age, made it possible to
provide employment and cheap and warm clothing
for untold millions.
Apart from its service in putting and keeping
Australia on its feet Australian wool has had a
tremendous impact on industrial world history.
Some Wherefores of Social Welfare
LAST financial year the Federal Government’s
bill for social services was £177 million; this year’s
estimate is £194 million. Neither figure represents
the total cost of social service in Australia as they
do not include the very considerable sums expended
by the States on health, education and other
services. In Britain social-welfare expenditure
accounts for more than a quarter of all Govern-
ment spending, and in European countries, although
the proportion of the national revenue spent under
this heading varies considerably, the general
tendency since the war has been for it to increase.
In Social Security in the British Commonwealth
Ronald Mendelsohn has made a comparative
study of the social-welfare systems of Great
Britain, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. His
study has been very thorough. It covers the
subject historically and politically; it considers
economic influences and effects, Constitutional
differences and difficulties. And although in his
preface the author remarks apologetically that any
such book, “with its lists of benefit-rates and
descriptions of financial methods,” is bound to be
very dull, he has taken the risk and included all
the tables and statistics necessary for a complete
picture. To him there is nothing dull about the
subject, because behind the talk of conditions of
eligibility or enforcement of contributions he sees
as reality “the knots of shabby unemployed men
on street-comers, or the lonely grey women in
small, cold rooms.”
That mental picture of what poverty and
distress mean to the individual is the concept
which has motivated most attempts at social
alleviation down the centuries. For, despite the
pretence of Australian Socialists that concern for
the underprivileged was non-existent before the
advent of “Labor” Governments, there is nothing
new in the idea of social services, however much
the modem approach may have widened their
scope. To quote a British Government handbook;
Voluntary organisations were the pioneers of
nearly all the social services. They provided!
schools, hospitals, clinics, dispensaries, and social
and recreational clubs before these were provided
by the State. They made themselves responsible
for the welfare of the very young and the very old,
the homeless and the handicapped, before it was
generally accepted that the whole community had
a responsibility towards these people.
Nor is the principle of State responsibility as
new as some imagine. In England the Poor Law
of 1601 implied, as Mendelsohn points out,
“recognition that it was the duty of the community
to support its members if they were destitute,” and
even that law was a consolidation of earlier
measures designed for the same purpose.
Nowadays, when people think of the Poor
Law and its offspring, the Workhouse, it is usually
the harshness of the system that is recalled; its
weaknesses and shortcomings conceal the fact that
its intentions at least were sound. Mendelsohn
considers its great weakness was decentralised
control, which led to buck-passing on a grand
scale; no parish was willing to accept the respon-
sibility of supporting beggars belonging to other
parishes and whenever possible such applicants
for assistance were bundled off in the general
direction of their home town. A somewhat similar
practice was common in Australian country towns
during the dole-period of the 1930’s when the
local police discouraged strangers from remaining
long in their towns.
In retrospect the best that can be said of the
Poor Law is that it worked reasonably well in
good times and failed miserably when it was most
needed, but in passing this judgment it should be
remembered that much of our own social-service
structure is of post-war growth, and has operated
only under the favorable conditions of full-
employment. It has not yet been put to the test of
bad times. Any chance the Poor Law had of being
successful disappeared with the coming of the
Industrial Revolution. A system which thought in
terms of agricultural laborers could not cope with
the new poor of the industrial towns. Still, the
new society forced its own relief. Improved
sanitation and health provisions, which were
essential if industrial society was to survive, were
the precursors of modem social services.
Mendelsohn believes that out of the Industrial
Revolution, in contrast to its earlier excesses, has
arisen a realisation of the increasing significance
of individual human life, and that the present-day
social landscape is dominated by the recognition
of a genuine increase in the status of the common
man. This, he feels,
transcends forms of government, making it a prime
need for every State, however authoritarian, to
fiaim itself to be democratic, that is, subject to the
will of the people
and that the universal demand for protection
against the grosser forms of exploitation and
against the insecurities engendered by the industrial
system cannot be ignored by any political party or
Government. This explains why widely differing
political systems —Western democracies, Nazi
Germany and Communist Russia—all evolved
elaborate social-service structures. It is interesting
to recall that as long ago as the 1880’s compulsory
insurance against sickness, industrial accidents and
old-age was pioneered, not by Gladstone’s England
but by Bismarck’s Germany.
As, on his own statement, Mendelsohn’s tables
of payments and provisions are dull they will not
be quoted here, but his conclusions are that a
person in necessitous circumstances is most likely
to receive benefit in Britain, least likely in Canada,
with Australia and New Zealand in intermediate
positions. The degree of benefit varies consider-
ably. “New Zealand seems to be most generous,
and Britain least, with Australia and Canada in
intermediate positions.”
In all four countries he finds that State
assistance has advanced a long way towards
“complete cover” —in the case of Britain, almost
achieving it —but he warns that their experience
may not be applicable everywhere. The four,
despite the continued existence of poverty amongst
large groups and the distress and disruption caused
by unemployment during most of the first four
decades of the century, are economically and
socially amongst the most advanced countries in
the world. They are amongst the first half-dozen
in terms of income per head; and they lead in
most of the indices for measuring the social health
of a community, from the degree of literacy to the
incidence of tuberculosis, the extent of maternal
mortality, or the expectation of life.
He warns that a very different approach may
be necessary in India and China, where the problem
is not so much to iron-out fluctuations in living-
standards as to raise the standards all round.
Social-security measures are probably the
coping-stone in an edifice of social justice. They
are valuable, and attempts to obtain them me
valid, only when substantial advances have already
been made in the physical and mental well-being
of the community. It is to be expected that the
country with the lowest sickness- and death-rate
will have the best social-security structure; we
cannot unfortunately pursue here the fascinating
problem of determining which is the cause and
which the effect.
To which may be added, as far as Australia
is concerned, that, all political parties having
accepted the principle that the State has a duty
towards the individual and that they differ on y
in degree and interpretation, political leaders na\
another duty—to see that in determining the scope
and degree of social services they shall be governe
only by the needs of the community on the one
hand and its capacity to pay on the other. JNot i
could be more fatal to a lasting system ol so
welfare than vote-catching gestures and appeals
the “gimme” instinct.


NO LONGER A DREAM


PLAIN ENGLISH
Eden's Victory and World
Policy
The British Labor Party went to the polls
with grim handicaps. It ran its race with
Mr. Aneurin Bevan and his extremists
round its neck. It was compelled to fight
a few months after the country had been
plunged by extremists into two strikes —
a ligntning strike of bus-mechanics which
daily held up tens of thousands of shiver-
ing London workers and a strike of dock-
workers which paralysed for weeks, and
dislocated for months, the sacrosanct
export trade which every Briton has been
taught to regard as the recipe for salva-
tion. It fought just after the issue of a
popular Budget, one which made con-
cessions to the “little man” and which at
the same time provided for a second
huge surplus.
On top of this the election was held
with the threat of two more huge strikes
hanging over it —another dock-strike and
a general railway-strike. And Labor had
to walk warily with the transport unions.
Lastly, it fought at the disadvantage
that it was not campaigning alone. A
ghostly Soviet companion walked with it,
spreading sugar in its path. Kremlin
policy had obviously been directed in
Europe during the weeks to the campaign
to “helping Labor in” in Britain. Every-
where there was the subtle implication
that Khrushchev was confident that the
days of warmongers Eden and Churchill
were over and that the moment was due
when he could deal with a sweetly-
reasonable United Kingdom Govern-
ment, at last divorced from the dominat-
ing influence of the Wall-street aggressors.
The results —an increased overall
majority totalling 60 for the Government
—will profoundly affect world policy,
more especially since the Bevanite per-
sonal majorities were reduced. They will
certainly affect the results of the U.S.
House elections. They will strengthen
Britain’s, and the British Common-
wealth’s, hand in the Far East in dealing
with intricate matters like Formosa. They
will give a fillip to trade. They will
solidify British influence on the Contin-
ent, where one of the most disruptive
factors of the past few years has been
the instability following the swing to the
Left of British thought and policy.
British fiscal policy is firmly based and
controlled by an able and well-likea
Chancellor in Mr. R. A. Butler, who is
more solid and adrSit than showy.
Defence policy is stable—all its main in-
gredients are already determined on a
long-term basis. Foreign policy is rooted
in the fact that “peace is the greatest
issue”; it aims to see that the hatchet is
finally buried between France and Ger-
many and that the Western Union which
came into existence as the result of the
Paris agreements is reality. It also
assumes that “negotiation with Russia
.must be based on strength” and be in
world terms and that the Four-Power
conference shall not aim to settle the pro-
blems of the universe at one fell swoop,
but that it shall be a first step to bringing
in other Powers specially affected —not-
ably China —and gradually reducing ten-
sion by the elimination of contentious
issues until it is possible to make agree-
ment for world peace in a calm atmos-
phere. It is a most intricate process. The
danger is that so soon as the atmosphere
shows signs of cooling the taxpayers of
the democracies will begin clamoring for
a reduction of defence-expenditure.
Armament is at such a level, and expan-
sion is so planned and budgeted-for ahead,
that its abandonment is something which
must take years unless the economies of
the major nations are to be shocked into
depression—Russia’s into chaos.
The United Kingdom Government has
an able negotiating team in the P.M.,
Mr. Harold Macmillan, the Foreign
Secretary, and Lord Salisbury. But they
will need all their ability, toughness, forti-
tude and skill in the next three or
four years. And all the backing they can
get from the country.
General Delight
It is not often that the results of a general
election give the leaders of both sides
cause for satisfaction, but the Victorian
election seems to have achieved that rare
feat. Mr. Bolte, leader of the Liberal-
Country Party, who seems certain to be
Victoria’s next Premier, has claimed a
“sweeping victory for the L.C.P.” and
Dr. Evatt, who seems certain not to be
Australia’s next Prime Minister, has
rejoiced that “the Barry-Coleman-
McManus faction has been drastically
punished by the electors with political
annihilation.” The Doc. had good reason
to be pleased. He made the State election
a battleground for a trial of strength
between the Federal executive and the
Victorian “Groupers,” with the know-
ledge that his influence in Federal caucus
and in the other States was also on
trial. “Labor” M.L.A.s in the other
Parliaments who may have been toying
with the idea of following the Barry
example have been given a plain warn-
ing of the consequences, and the Joshua
party in Canberra will need to do some
heavy thinking about its political future.
Premier Cain, nominal leader of
“Labor” in the campaign, is “very pleased
with the result because it has been one
of the most difficult elections for us for
many years because of the split in the
party.” His pleasure must have brought
him rather cold comfort. There is no
doubt grim satisfaction in knowing that
almost the entire band of mutineers has
been thrust out into the wilderness, but
very little in the thought that, including
the new recruits who have replaced them,
his entire team is not now much more
than half the number that owed him
allegiance before the split.
Country-party leader Hyland hasn’t
said much. The two-for-one redistribution
was expected to cost him a couple of his
12 seats and it has. But one of his men
ousted the sitting “Labor” member in
Mildura —ancf without the intrusion of a
Barry candidate. His party may still
hold the balance of power—its favorite
role.
The other two party leaders have not
expressed any pleasure. After all, there’s
not much left to say when you go to the
polls with 4 seats and 10 candidates, as
Hollway did, or with 12 seats and 44
candidates, as Barry did, and lose every
seat but one —and that one not your own.
With preferences still to decide several
seats, the final position of parties is still
to be determined, but the L.C.P. party
will provide the new Government, either
with a slender majority in their own right
or with the Country party in partnership
or on the sidelines.
Federal Election Prospects
If, as he represents, Dr. Evatt is
delighted with the result of the Victorian
election, it says little for his interest in
the Federal party’s welfare. The essential
Federal factor is not that the Barry
group has been virtually wiped out. It
is the long-term effect of this that counts.
Not only has Evatt wrecked the “Labor”
Government in Victoria, and possibly
destroyed the Cahill and Gair Govern-
ments, but the overall results seem to
have destroyed his chance of ever becom-
ing Prime Minister and his party’s
chances of attaining power for many
years.
The Menzies victory in 1954 was not
overpowering, and it seemed that “Labor”
could look forward to securing a major-
ity in the Senate at the half-way election
next year. There seemed no excuse on
which the Government could go to the
country again on a. double-dissolution,
faced as it was with its own internal
problems.
But the condition of Parliament, the
obvious need for reform, the need to syn-
chronise the Senate and Representative
elections, the huge growth of population
which has brought about redistribution
so . soon after an election —the new
boundaries are to be discussed this week
—and the rapidly changing defence situa-
tion which make it necessary for the
Government to see that it is stable and
able to get its legislation carried, all
suggest the need for a new election before
the spring of next year and the earlier
the better. This is especially so since
the Opposition has divided the country on
defence and foreign policy by its adop-
tion of the Communist policy at Hobart.
“Labor’s” prospects at such an elec-
tion are now loaded with gloom. Evatt
is not in the same position as Cain. The
latter’s support was solid; he did not
have in his own section at least three of
his shadow-Cabinet all hogging to cut his
political throat. He was not followed by
half a dozen scarcely-secret sympathisers
with the breakaway section, nor did he
have a struggle on his party’s hand for
reconstructed seats, or influential mem-
bers of his caucus, whose seats have been
destroyed, fighting to get a foothold
against colleagues more fortunate. Cain
was fighting in an industrialised and
politically closely-knit State. And even in
those circumstances the drift against
“Labor” was sufficient to reduce its over-
all number of seats from 37 to about 20.
On that basis what would happen to
“Labor” in a Federal election is nobody’s
business.
The present session of the Federal
Parliament has almost petered out. The
House will meet again for the Budget
session in August or September. The
Government parties, though in a much
happier position than “Labor, ’ are no
as cohesive as they should be. There is
discontent among younger members on
various issues, including the retention m
office of some older Ministers. This is
bound to come to the surface sooner or
later, and it gives an added inducement
to the Government to consolidate its
position before schism weakens it.
The course of politics seems to be
shaping towards a double-dissolution, or
a dissolution of the House of Representa-
tives combined with a referendum on
Senate-reform, within the next few
months.
If a poll eventuates it will be Black
Saturday for “Labor” unless somebody
can perform a miracle.
Another Walker Going
Strong
Nobody is more likely to annoy than the
man who is always right—particularly
when it comes to forecasting. So it seems
that Lennox Walker, the late Inigo
Jones’s disciple now operating the long-
range weather-forecasting system at
Crohamhurst Observatory in Queensland,
is heading for rank unpopularity.
From late in April, just when every-
body thought the abnormally wet autumn
was turning dry, Walker forecast the
contrary. Summary of his forecasts:
April 24: Cyclone off south Queensland
in latter half of May moving down
coast rough seas and gale-force winds.
(Battered ships and' waterfronts prove his
accuracy.)
May 1: Wet month for Sydney....
further heavy coastal and general rains
...further floods... .Victoria and South
Australia to get them, too. (Right again!)
May 8: More heavy rain on N.S.W.
coast about mid-May and towards close
of month... .flooding may occur
general falls in Victoria and South Austra-
lia. (Too right, he was right!)
May 15: Heavy rain in N.S.W. between
26th and end of month. (May 26 was last
Thursday, when a deluge fell on Sydney
and all points north, west and south.
Reports of floods cutting railways and
roads around Broken Hill.)
Walker based these predictions on what
he calls the “single cycle,” but he added,
in the forecast of May 15: “Should the
main cycle become operative, then heavier
rains are anticipated ; but this does not
appear the case at the present time.”
On Thursday most people were more
than satisfied with the contributions of
the single cycle. By contrast, Sydney
Observatory seemed to be using a
velocipede.
Old Vic and Young Aussie
Merely by being in the country such
companies as the Old Vic, the Stratford-
upon-Avon players and Sir Ralph Rich-
ardson and his cohorts now in Melbourne
lift the standard of culture in Australia
by several feet. Capital cities are just not
capitals when all the theatre they can offer
is talkies and musicomedy, and these
English visitors do their performances
with a flair and a polish such as Australia
can never hope to see in the little-theatres
where the drama maintains its struggling
existence.
Nevertheless, many people who have
seen the Old Vic in Sydney must now
realise that great names are not every-
thing in the making of great theatrical
art and that, as anybody who visits
London or Edinburgh will quickly dis-
cover, the strangest imperfections can
crop up among these famous companies.
It must be admitted that Katharine
Hepburn, charming as she is, sometimes
appears to be impersonating a fairy or a
foghorn rather than Portia; and even
Robert Helpmann’s Shylock, though it
has been widely acclaimed and is certainly
striking, can hardly be squared with the
“old” Shylock of the text; he is much
too elegant to sharpen his knife on his
boot-soles as, ranting in rags and
whiskers, Allan Wilkie did so memorably
years ago.
From which Australian “angels,” actors
and audiences, can surely take heart:
not that Australian productions should
aim at imperfection, but it is obvious that
what is imperfect can at least be equalled
and, very likely, bettered.
In point of fact, you do, in odd corners,
often see Australian Shakspearian pro-
ductions that are, at least in spots, as
brilliant as any in the world. If the Old
Vic’s “Macbeth” at last year’s Edinburgh
Festival was superb, so was John Alden’s
“King Lear.” The Old Vic’s “Midsum-
mer Night’s Dream,” with Mr. Help-
mann’s Oberon flying about the stage in
black and green like some magnificent
beetle and Stanley Holloway hopelessly
miscast as Bottom, was never more than
a wonderful spectacle. May Hollinworth
found an infinitely better Bottom for the
Sydney Metropolitans a few years back.
Borovansky’s ballet, to take a collateral
example, has put on far richer displays
than London’s Festival Hall last year.
Michell and McKern, the stars of the
last Stratford-upon-Avon company to
tour this country, were Australians. So
is Robert Helpmann. So is Loudon Saint-
hill, who designed the splendid sets for
the Old Vic. And if these people went
abroad to get their polish, that doesn’t
prove that polish can’t be acquired here.
Borovansky can do it with his ballerinas;
so could any good producer with the
actors who are available —many now
have all the polish they need.
All that the Australian theatre really
needs to enable it to stand comparison
with any in the world is: confidence
upon the part of the backers; money to
set and dress itself properly; and—per-
haps the hardest of all to achieve, but it
has been done in both music and ballet—
a change in the public outlook from the
provincialism that is interested only in
great names from overseas.
Where Are We Heading?
“In the ACT”: Business is booming,
immigration-schemes are expanding,
every State has a long list of major pro-
jects half-finished or awaiting attention
and there are far more jobs than men to
fill them. The average Australian is
pretty content with life at present, and
with some reason, but it might be a good
thing if we indulged in some national
stocktaking, and had a realistic discus-
sion of our objectives for the next forty
or fifty years. It would be informative
to know whether our political leaders and
parties have any clear picture of what
this country will be like by a.d. 2000,
which, after all, is not so very far off. Do
we know how many people we expect to
have then, and where they will be settled?
Have we an estimate of our food-produc-
tion at that stage, both for our own use
and for export? Is any real attempt being
made to view major undertakings of
power, conservation and the like from a
national rather than a State viewpoint,
so that some system of priority can be
worked out in the nation’s interest?
On top of all this, is it worth consider-
ing whether we have to be in such a
hurry? It seems at least worth consider-
ing whether we might not do better work
at lower cost if we did not dissipate our
collective energies and resources over too
many fields. Can the politicians tell us
whether the rush to get migrants
is merely to increase productivity
at an accelerating rate, or whether it
is designed to confront the expanding
populations of Asia with a “House Full”
notice at the earliest possible moment?
Is there any informed estimate of when
the natural pressures of those popula-
tions will cease to find outlets in Asia
itself, where, contrary to general belief,
there are still large vacant areas.
It would be a statesmanlike act for
someone with knowledge and authority
to draw up a blueprint for the next
half-century, showing objectives and the
possible means of reaching them There
would be no need for a hard-and-fast
document, no necessity for rigid-planning
in an admittedly uncertain world. All
phases of the road ahead should provide
useful and profitable political exercise,
and the plans should be elastic, subject
to. ready change and improvement and
open to the fullest public discussion, and
they should be made soon.
Tito v. Khrushchev
Prospects for the Four-Power Confer-
ence are not nearly so hopeful as they
may have appeared a few days ago when
Comrade Ilya Ehrenburg was trumpeting
in Paris his country’s love for Britain
and France.
Moscow has been obviously eager to
secure that the conference shall be held
in Vienna. The Kremlin is clearly trying
to shift the diplomatic centre of Europe
to the Danube region and to concentrate
attention on that area with the aim of
showing the corridor countries along the
invasion-route of the West Moscow’s
ascendancy and Moscow’s power.
To focus attention on its objective it
organised the 20-year treaty of friend-
ship and collaboration signed with great
rejoicing on May 14 in Warsaw. The
signatories were all under the heel of the
Soviet Union Albania, Bulgaria,
Hungary, East Germany, Poland,
Rumania and Czechoslovakia. Moscow
hopes to suck Austria and Yugoslavia
into this defence-union —or aggression-
union—and if this could be achieved it
would extend the Russian Empire to the
Adriatic, make air-control of Italy
possibility, give a foothold to command
(Continued on next page)


Switzerland and the Mediterranean,
under the commander-in-chief of the
union forces appointed on the day the
treaty was signed—Marshal Koniev. It
no doubt is thought possible to bulldoze
Communist-riddled Italy into the bloc
and to cut off Turkey and Greece from
the West.
The effort being made with Yugo-
slavia is illuminating ; so is the response
of Marshal Tito. He has been standing-
up to Moscow and the Cominform for
seven years, and he opened the dis-
cussions in which Khrushchev and
Bulganin went to him almost cap-in-hand
by informing the world that he intended
to “make no change whatever in Yugo-
slavia’s relations with the West” and that
there was “no chance that the Yugoslavs
would again attach themselves to the
Communist bloc.”
Khrushchev has so far refused to be
snubbed. He said over the weekend
that the late lamented Beria —who had
nothing to do with foreign relations at
the time or with the Cominform —had
been “responsible for darkening relations
between the two countries.” Tito kept
a straight face.
While the Yugoslavs have expressed
themselves ready for an agreement for
peaceful co-existence if such questions
can be settled as payment by Russia for
damage caused to the Yugoslav economy
by the Soviet economic blockade, there
seems no chance that it will break its
defensive alliance with Turkey and
Greece. Tito has said that where aid is
in question, he “will not accept it under
conditions.”
It is unthinkable that Yugoslavia could
return to the Communist fold without
giving watertight pledges, either of
neutrality or association with the Koniev
military alliance and admission to
Belgrade of a flood of cold-war opera-
tives who would at once begin to under-
mine the Government to replace it by one
subject to the Cominform. Tito
obviously knows which side his bread is
buttered on and has no wish to re-enter
the prisoner-compound from which he
escaped with difficulty.
POLITICAL POINTS
Unless the Doctor provides a quick-
curing antidote, one of those neon-lit
“Labor Funerals” parlors is going to have
a big job on its hands.
• •
From the outset of the counting on
Saturday night it was apparent that the
Barry faction was lagging badly in the
struggle with the Evatt-Cains for the
“Labor” vote. It was equally obvious
that no matter which side won the family
squabble their combined forces would be
outnumbered by the former Opposition
parties. As the returns came in it soon
became a question whether there would
be any Barry party left at all—a query
which could also be applied to Hollway’s
V.L.P. The upshot of this was that
Barry and Hollway were able to condole
with each other on the loss of their own
seats and congratulate each other on
having one supporter each in the new
Parliament. The two survivors are F. R.
Scully (Richmond) and J. Don (Elstern-
wick). Scully may possibly be joined by
P. J. Randles (Brunswick West), where
a three-cornered fight is being decided
on preferences.
• •
Quite a batch of seats will have to
wait on allocation of preferences, and it
will probably be the weekend before the
final score is known. Most likely make-up
of the new House at present seems:
L.C.P 33
C.P 10
Labor 20
V.L.P 1
Barry Labor .. .. 1
Ind. Labor 1
66
• •
The L.C.P. figure could be higher,
with corresponding losses to “Labor” and
possibly to the Country party. On Mon-
day L.C.P. leaders were still hopeful of
an absolute majority. They gave their
candidates a good chance in Benalla and
Benambra (both credited to the Country
party above) and in two or three metro-
politan seats where Barry preferences
will decide the issue.
The direction of Barry prefs. is not
easy to predict. It will not be consistent,
but will vary in different electorates with
factional bitterness and local popularity.
• •
Until a new champion emerges Cain
holds the tripe medal for the mixed meta-
phor of the year. Describing the political
situation m Victoria he told a Fitzroy
audien :e that the Country Party had
done more than anyone else “to put this
country on the rocks.” However, his
Government had “put Victoria on its
wheels” in two-and-a-half years and now
that the State was on an even keel it
would be unwise to change horses in
midstream. He apparently forgot that
you can take an old pitcher to the well,
but you can’t make it gather moss.
• •
With five parties in the field on Satur-
day those electors who shut their eyes
and ears to politics until they reach the
avenue of How-to-vote canvassers outside
the polling-booths found themselves more
confused than usual. Both “Labor”
factions claimed to be “official” and their
cards looked official. On the other side
some Hollway men were describing them-
selves as “endorsed Liberals.” They
added V.L.P. in brackets, which enables
them to protest that they had no intention
of confusing anyone, but the confusion
was there all the same.
• •
Eden’s victory in the British elections
reversed a trend observed in U.K. politics
for nearly a century —that the party in
office invariably loses seats. The Con-
servatives couldn’t afford to lose any
this time; their majority in the old
Parliament was only 18. As it turned
out, they had no need to worry; they
held all their seats with increased
majorities and increased their overall
margin in the Commons to 60.
Party strengths in the new Parliament
will be:
Conservatives . .. 14S
Labor 277
Liberals ] ’ ‘ " 6
Sinn Fein ” “ ” 2
630
The Sinn Feiners will not go to West-
minster; they’re in a Belfast jail doing
10 years for taking part in an armed
raid on an Army barracks.
• •
The new Commons has six more seats
than the old, and on balance the Con-
servatives have gained 23 and Labor has
lost 17. Irish Labor held one seat in
the last Parliament; it went to a Con-
servative this time. The jailbird Irish
M.P.s will make no difference to the
actual composition of the House; the
seats they nominally hold were won last
time by the Irish Nationalists, who did
not attend at Westminster.
• «
At the 1951 election Attlee’s followers
were able to console themselves with the
thought that although they won a
minority of seats they collected a majority
of votes. They haven’t that consolation
this time. The Conservatives polled
13,340,118 votes; Labor, 12,421,162;
Liberals, 717,326; Communists, 33,154;
other parties, 246,578.
• •
A former London police-inspector told
a Sydney daily that “London policemen
would not dare to speak to pedestrians in
the way Australian policemen do.” Per-
"IS THIS RIGHT, WINSTON?"
haps London policemen don’t meet the
kind of pedestrians Australian policemen
have to deal with.
• •
Vic. Tramways brought out a batch
of British, migrants under a passage-
assistance plan designed to meet the
shortage of conductors. Seventeen of
a team of 37 failed to turn-up for instruc-
tion when the classes in tramway-
procedure began in Melbourne and when
questioned later most of ’em said they felt
the job was beyond them. If they’re
dinkum there must be something wrong
with the method of selection; if they’re
not then there’s something wrong with
their sense of fair-play.
• •
It may be heresy to mention it but in
issuing warnings of the possible effects on
the human race of the explosion of atomic
bombs geneticists always seem to take it
for granted that any change brought
about in the human species must inevit-
ably be for the worse. We can’t be as
good as all that. Surely there’s some
slight room for improvement?
• •
Premier Playford had to tell a ques-
tioner in the Adelaide Parliament that
“the future of the Housing Trust and the
prospects of private home-builders hung
in the balance” because the Common-
wealth-States Housing Agreement had
expired, the Commonwealth had not
offered to renew it, and it was possible
the Loan Council would cut the £3O mil-
lion housing allocation to the States or
suspend it altogether. Further, the State
Bank of S.A. had run out of housing
funds. It’s to be hoped the Premier was
kite-flying for the Loan Council, because
South Australia would sadly miss its
Housing Trust —the best set-up of its
kind in Australia.
• •
S’African Prime Minister Strijdom’s
attempt to stack the Senate in order to
get his racial legislation through Parlia-
ment with the required two-thirds
majority of the combined Houses has
several precedents, none of them very
worthy. Asquith, in 1910, threatened to
stack the House of Lords, but didn’t get
around to it. In Queensland, Theodore,
wishing to abolish the Legislative Council,
filled it with “suicide squad” appointees
who voted it out of existence in 1922.
Lang tried the same tactics in New South
Wales, but some of the suiciders refused
to play when the vital vote was taken.
Strijdom’s action has caused a revival
of the Torch Commando, an ex-service-
man organisation which, under war-time
ace “Sailor” Malan, campaigned against
racial laws a few years ago.
• •
Condon, Opposition-leader in the S.
Aust. Upper House, complimented Port
Adelaide wharfies on their efficiency and
said no section of the community had a
better war-record. That ought to put
all those returned-soldier blokes in their
place.
• •
There’s been enough blood-pressure in
Australian politics, past and present, to
give more than academic acknowledg-
ment to Casey’s announcement in the
Reps, that C.5.1.R.0. officers had dis-
covered in an Australian plant a source
of reserpine, the near-miraculous drug
for treating hypertension. Casey praised
the officers concerned, but didn’t respond
to one member’s suggestion that some
cash recognition should also be forth-
coming. Calwell referred to the deaths
of two Prime Ministers from blood-
pressure, and hoped the drug would be
made by the Commonwealth labs, as
well as by commercial firms.
• •
By October Japan will buy 200,000 bales
of wool under a new Budget allocation,
but it is thought that instead of buying
80 per cent, of her needs from Australia
she may reduce the figure to 75 or even 70
per cent., depending on the extent of pur-
chases from South Africa.
• •
London “Daily Express,” noting that
British consumption of Empire food-
products rose from 40 p.c. in 1951 to 53
p.c. last year, says “Always the policy
should be to give first place in the home-
market to home-farmers, and then to sup-
port our own people in the Empire on
whom the nation can depend, not only in
prosperous times, but in troublous times,
too.” Sure, but if you confront the
British housewife with a non-Empire pro-
duct at 3d. cheaper than its Empire rival
how can you be sure she’s read the “Daily
Express”?
• •
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: The rice dispute be-
tween New Guinea consumers and Aus-
tralian producers has been settled by the
granting of lower prices by the growers,
and the Territory will return to the former
policy of using only Australian rice. The
pncc of brown rice has come down by
a ton, making it £65 a ton f.o.b.
IV Jto * '' ltam^n ' enr 'i c hed white rice will
oe i/0 a ton. The new agreement is for
a year, and the Territory people describe
tne price as “fully competitive” on the
basis of quality and guaranteed delivery.
Territory buyers will be about
tzUO,OOO a year.
• •
Clyde”: A.L.P. officials in Sydney are
reported to be seeking a formula to settle
their faction-fight. Possibly there would
have been no fight to settle if Dr. Evatt
had made use of portion of Einstein’s
famous formula: A=X +Y+ Z. For
present purposes X and Y don’t matter,
but Z, the professor explained shortly
before he died, means “keeping your
mouth shut.”
• •
According to the U.S. Information
Service the Warsaw conference to set
up a joint military command by the
Soviet and satellites will represent a vast
number of troops, built up in violation
of peace-treaty limitations on armaments.
It is claimed that the total includes more
than 200,000 in Hungary (treaty limit,
65,000), more than 300,000 in Rumania
(125,000), 310,000 in Poland (to protect the
supply lines to the 400,000 Soviet troops
in Eastern Germany), 125,000 in East
Germany and more than half a million in
Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria and Albania.
• •
When a Melbourne court held that the
sovereign was no longer a “current coin”
within the meaning of the Australian Act,
the verdict caused alarm in Britain, where
the authorities have been taking active
steps to stop counterfeiting. About 300
million sovereigns are now in circulation
in Asia, especially in the Moslem world,
and in Hong Kong, as well as in South
America. The value of a gold sovereign
has always stood at a premium over the
value of its gold-content, but its value,
measured in sterling, has recently dropped
in the Middle East from £lO to about
£3 6s. This fall is attributed to the cir-
culation of counterfeit sovereigns, some
of which contain nearly the right weight
and fineness of gold. Some Arabian
markets quote different rates of exchange
for genuine and false sovereigns. There
have been successful criminal proceed-
ings against counterfeiters in Switzerland,
Italy and Tangier, but the Victorian de-
cision was a setback. A bill is now before
Parliament in Canberra to define “cur-
rent” coins as any which have been
coined in any of the Royal Mints.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
TT is such a change to see anything not
about rape in the Sydney dailies that
I rather welcome the thundering denun-
ciations of Lindsey Browne, the “S. M.
Herald’s” dramatic critic, with which one
Alexander Macdonald, a columnist,
occasionally enlivens the “Telegraph.”
Personal journalism was always good fun,
and it brightens the town to have Mr
Macdonald speaking forcibly if not
prettily of Mr. Browne’s “grotesque
gutzer” in his criticism of the Old Vic,
and demanding “How now, Browne
cow?” But really Mr. Macdonald does
write a lot of nonsense. Everybody (with
one exception) knows that Lindsey
Browne is the best dramatic critic in
Sydney—in all Australia, very likely—
and if he is trying to cultivate a prose
style, to Mr. Macdonald’s extreme annoy-
ance, why not? I, too, find Mr. Browne’s
prose a trifle orchidaceous at times ; but
how pleasant to find such flowers bloom-
ing in Hunter-street. And under the
orchids Mr. Browne does explain the
principles of drama and acting very
soundly ; but all Mr. Macdonald explains
is .. . Glencoe. —“Mac Hoots.”
* * ♦
“Ceg”: Some Melbourne clubs, like
their opposite-numbers in London, man-
age to retain their individuality, but
“Do you do renovating?”
others, doubtless for economic reasons,
have completely altered. The conservative
old Melbourne Club at the top of Coffins-
street is no doubt just as difficult as ever
to enter. Others, while opening the
gates a little wider, still manage to confine
their membership-lists to the same types
of men. Stiff others seem to have de-
parted completely from their founders’
ideas. The Savage Club in Bank Place,
when such men as David Low and
others of his kind were members, required
of members an ability to do something
artistic. Writers, newspapermen, painters,
sculptors, formed the club. I could not
help noticing, when lunching there the
other day, that most of the assembly would
have been unable to produce anything
more artistic than a nicely-drawn-up
“But why waste money on a sprinkler ?”
balance-sheet or company-prospectus.
Some of the old-timers would find them-
selves strangely out of place among such
obviously prosperous and affluent gentry.
Perhaps it now suffices to patronise the
arts —the Bully was in the reading-
room.
*t*
“Old Mac”: Queensland Minister
Devries knocking on the door of Winton’s
new hotel (B. 11/5/’55) reminds me that
at' the enthronement-ceremonies of the
present Bishop of Tasmania, when he for-
mally proceeded from the Chapter House
and knocked three times on the Cathedral
door, the übiquitous old girl in the crowd
outside called out: “It’s no good, Mister —
you can’t get in there without a ticket.”
<* ♦> ❖
“Sackfair”: Some Sydney architects
seem to believe that the city is populated
by pigmies. An experienced Sydney man
descends strange staircases with his head
bowed. A typical menace lurks behind
the door marked “Gentlemen’s Smoke-
room” in a Sydney filmhouse. Large
letters painted on a beetle-browed struc-
ture overhead warn, “Gentlemen Mind
Your Heads.” Whether every gentleman
sees the sign in time to comply is proble-
matical. They didn’t in a warehouse that
was taken over by the Tech, people for
an ex-servicemen’s training-centre. Some
keen-minded visionary ended the steady
stream of minor casualties with a new
sign: “Duck.”
* ❖
“Hortus”: As fast-moving a man as
I’ve ever seen in the ring was a Sergeant
Brown, an ex-Army instructor at Sand-
hurst (Eng.), and later a school-sergeant
at one of our N.S.W. great public schools.
The Duke of Gloucester learnt the game
at his hands. But the sarge met his match
out here, after having an argument with
a rather stocky Eurasian cleaner at the
same institution. They were standing very
close to each other, waiting for one to
make the first move, when the cleaner
said: “You! I’ve thrown men like you
yards many a time! ” And before the ser-
geant realised it, he had landed over a
fence some yards away, fortunately on a
patch of grass. He said to me a few
•minutes later, “You see that new fellow.
Well, he’s the quickest mover I’ve ever
met or seen.” The said cleaner was really
tough. Fancy a man stripping and lower-
ing himself into a 25,000ga1. under-
ground-tank on a cold winter’s morning
to recoup the school bell some wag had
thrown in!
“Buma”: Closing tins without solder
(B. 4/5/ ’55) destroyed a backyard indus-
try. By the end of World War I lead-
prices were high and the rag-bag-and-
bottle chap in our suburb traded us
sweets for old tins, from which he sal-
vaged the solder. World War II saw the
tin portion chemically salvaged from the
steel-plate. Maybe World War 111 will
see the steel-plate salvaged—or, will plas-
tic containers have displaced steel-plate
by that time?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Speed”: Professor J. C. Moyer, from
Cornell University (U.S.A.), who is visit-
ing Brisbane to gain information on the
State’s canning-industry, reckons that
American housewives “would come back
and throw it in your face if you sold
them shoddy food.” Mrs. Moyer has
accompanied her husband, and it will be
interesting to see how she gets on with
the grocer and butcher out here.
❖ ❖ ♦♦«•
“J.L.”: A Brisbane businessman, an
amateur philatelist, has an office almost
next-door to the G.P.O. in Queen-street.
On May 4 he posted 24 letters to himself
at the G.P.O. to get the first-day coverage
on a new stamp-issue. Six of the letters
arrived on May 5 and the others have
been coming in gradually ever since. So
far, two have been posted missing.
i * * ❖
“Bo”: The problem had long bedevilled
me: what must a man have to beat his
• less-fortunate fellows to Sydney’s most
‘ autocratic job, before whose incumbent
the cowed citizenry incontinently flee? I
refer, of course, to the driver of the
municipal water-cart. Long observation
has at last solved it. He has to have the
Bradman eye, the ability to sight a mov-
ing object coming towards him a split-
second quicker than anybody else could ;
but with this must be combined the need
for instant sartorial differentiation. It
would be shooting a sitting-bird for him
to aim his water-jets at any old pair of
strides perambulating the kerbside. To
savor to the full the richness of his oppor-
tunities he has, while cruising the streets
at around 20 m.p.h., to select the wearer
of rammies which are obviously having
their first airing after having been to the
dry-cleaner’s.
+*♦
“Pigi”: Blood-tests to determine
sobriety remind me that a famous
Queensland botanist used to apply his
own test: he used to say “Rose butter-
nut,” but giving it its botanical name
Blepharocarya involucrigera, after which,
surely, the Leith police dismisseth us.
“D.J.G.”: One of those pests who go
about painting slogans on other people’s
property was caught in the act by police
at Maribyrnong (Vic.) just as he
completed “No Troops for
Malaya.” Charged with having
painted on a wall without the
consent of the owner, the
offender raised a novel defence
—that the sign was painted not
on a wall but upon a railway-
bridge. The magistrate ad-
journed the case for 14 days, at
the end of which, having satis-
fied himself that bridges, like
other structures, have walls within the
meaning of the Act, he imposed the maxi-
mum fine —twenty-quid.
♦> ♦♦♦
“Spinifex”: The “birthday gambit”
of David Campbell’s “Shearer in William-
street” (B. 11/5/’55) is used by amateur,
as well as professional, charmers. A lass
I used to wander around with had a
rather provoking habit of propping dead
in front of a shop-window and going into
raptures over a frock, a fur, or a posh
hat. Failing a satisfactory reaction, she’d
casually mention it was her birthday, or
it would be in a day or so, and wonder
if she could afford it. I came good a
couple of times, but when the third birth-
day came round within six months, I
realised her memory was failing. I had
to give the new hat a miss; but I sent
her a very nice calendar. So far, she
hasn’t even thanked me.
♦:< *:■ *
“Stanford”: While Victoria might be
“not inaptly” referred to as “The Cabbage
Garden” in the sense intended in “Tas.’s”
par. (B. 11 /5/’55), the term can’t any
longer be applied literally. Today’s Vic-
toria apparently doesn’t grow enough cab-
bages to keep its corned-beef company.
Since Greater Melbourne engulfed the
erstwhile green-belt and caused the one-
time market-gardens in the outer-subur-
ban areas to sprout houses and factories
the vegetables consumed in Victoria
have, as often as not, been raised by New
South Welshmen in Australia’s newest
“cabbage-garden”—across the Murray at
Buronga and Monak.
❖ * ❖
“Muskeen”: Wonder what college
“Doynest’s” hopeful attends (B.
18/5/’55)? Student ticket-scalpers for
shows in any Victorian public-school
would certainly not “get on.” They
would get out.
❖ ❖ ❖
“L For” : I’ve not gone into the tech-
nical details of blood-tests for driving
under the influence, but, even without,
I felt that a member of a wool-firm had
tough luck on a country road. Known
for giving it a bit of a nudge at the
local, he turned the firm’s car over in
loose gravel, and welcomed succor coming
in both directions—a mixed blessing;
one car was driven by the local doctor,
and the other by the constable. Result:
other wool-firms forgot their rivalry, and
while he was without a licence assisted
him on his tours, while at home his wife
was chauffeuse!
“H.C.S.”: We set out early one morn-
ing, with a trailer-load of car-batteries,
a forty-four of petrol, and the same of
water. Our job was to service and drive
away cars as they were brought out of
the holds of a ship at an Australian port.
After setting up a NO SMOKING sign,
we waited around and did nothing while
the wharfies (in overcoats) unloaded, at
infrequent intervals, every make of car
but ours. Towards evening we departed
with untouched batteries, petrol and
water, to our depot. The next day was a
Saturday, and as the local football-team
was playing that afternoon on the home-
ground, and the ship was sailing the next
day, it was obvious why all our cars
(about 30) were on the wharf by lunch-
time. Reinforcements were called to drive
them away, as we feverishly screwed bat-
tery-terminals, added petrol, and filled
radiators.
TWO-O’CLOCK DROOP
Three Swedish scientists have found
By studying the daily round
That workers of the hardiest stock
Always droop at two-o’clock.
My case is different; for I’m
Not always looking at the time;
No matter when you make a swoop
You’ll always find me at the droop.
Often at breakfast-time I say,
“1 will enjoy my work today —
At any rate, when I’ve begun
I’ll love it until half-past-one.”
The mood goes with me in the tram
And to the office like a lamb:
“Now, Mood,” I say, “my cheerful Whim,
Meet Work — you’ve heard me speak of
him !”
No sooner have the words been said,
Than Mood has turned away and fled —•
And there’s old Work, the office bore,
For me once more to droop before.
Did Fate forget my joyful morn,
Or Time stop still when I was born?
No matter what the cause may be,
Its always two-o’clock with me.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“TUST double-talk,” said the shipping
J manager when I asked him the
difference between wharfies having a
stoppage and going on strike ; “just an-
other example of double-talk.” Once, he
explained, men discharging and loading
cargo were called “wharf-lumpers” ; but,
as little lumping is done now, they are
called “waterside workers.” Agitation by
the lumpers of those days brought about
the “smoke-oh.” The word “smoke-oh”
is taboo today. There are no longer
“smoke-ohs,” only “rest-periods.” Simi-
larly—he came to the point—there used
to be “strikes” when men refused to
work; today there are “unauthoriied
stoppages.”—“Nedrium.”
"It's all right, corporal, I'm just giving her an aptitude-test.”
“Doric”: Though grand-opera addicts
must get tired of the same old repertoire
of “Boheme,” “Butterfly,” “Rigoletto,”
“Carmen,” “Faust,” etc., I notice that the
present Italian season in Melbourne shows
no sign of any originality. We can thank
the National Opera Co. of Victoria for
giving us “Cosi Fan Tutte” and “The
Consul” last year, but for getting off the
beaten-track I give the palm to the 1928
Melba season, when we saw such operas
as Montemezzi’s “Love of the Three
Kings,” Mascagni’s “Lodoletta,” Mas-
senet’s “Thais,” Puccini’s “II Tabarro”
and “Gianni Schicchi,” and his lovely but
neglected “Manon Lescaut,” with all the
old favorites thrown in for box-office
purposes.
“Cauboy”: Opera-entrepreneurs have
been more adventurous in the past. The
English-Italian company which toured
Australia in 1870 waded in gore through a
repertoire of 24 operas, eleven of them
new to Australia. Verdi, then coming into
his own, was represented by “Ernani,”
“I Vespri Siciliani” and “Un Ballo in
Maschera,” all now pretty well forgotten,
though the music in theip is just as good
as that of many which have become ever-
lastings. Bellini’s “La Sonnambula” and
“Norma,” Rossini’s “The Bar.ber of
Seville,” Flotow’s “Martha,” Gounod’s
“Faust,” Donizetti’s “Lucrezia Borgia”
and Wallace’s “Maritana” were all
new; and one daring innovation
was “lone,” even the composer of
which was unknown. Nevertheless, one
Melbourne critic was moved to remark
of “II Trovatore” that we had perhaps
heard this opera once too often. I
wonder what he would have said of the
current season. v
<& ♦>
“Ceg”: Here’s another coincidence of
the First A.I.F. (B. 11/5/’55). On dis-
charge in 1919, I was handed my “Re-
turned from Active Service” badge. I
can only assume that the authorities
feared that I might be subject to attacks
of amnesia, for the badge bore the num-
ber 205728—my Melbourne telephone-
number at that time was Central 2057 and
1 was living at No. 28 Collins-street. It
is by such little acts that the Headquar-
ters Boys endear themselves to old
soldiers. I, however, have not been simi-
larly co-operative, as I have not notified
them of my many subsequent changes of
address.
♦Jf ,
“J.”: The par. on organs (B. 16/2/’55)
lifted from memory some mixed feelings
springing from my efforts as offsider to
the school organist. I was one of three
boys in 700 who had the courage to ask
the widely known George (senior maths,
and music) to instruct me in the art of
urging suitable sounds, with feet and
hands, out of the old organ. This instru-
ment was installed in the last century,
and she used for power water which we
were -told later fell on cricket-fields. At
morning chapel I sat on the bench beside
George, and when a weight on the end of
a string ceased to wander up and down
I had to dash behind and operate the
huge hand-bellows. I was allowed to
attempt the voluntary as the boys filed
out. Very staid works I essayed in spite
of demand for more popular stuff, and I
never had the nerve to copy a former
pupil who used to work the hit of the day
“He played his ukulele as the ship went
down” into his impromptus. The be-
loved old master has passed, and I expect,
too, the lightness he added to the chapel.
Nowadays many more learn on the old
organ, but her wind comes no longer from
water, but from electricity.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ***
“Kabur”: Lae (N.G.) in ’44 had nylon
parachutes for the taking. I made myself
“He's just on the verge of discovering a cure for the common cold.”
two sleeping-bags long enough to crawl
right into. As in a cocoon I slept (naked,
of course), secure from mosquitoes and
sandflies, about 6deg. F. less than my
fellows who sweltered inside their sandfly-
nets. Being artificial fibre, nylon con-
ducted body-heat away; and being right
against the skin any air-circulation was
unimpeded, while the nylon was porous
enough for easy breathing. Any breeze
at all and it became almost chilly. I was,
in fact, a human wet-bulb thermometer.
< £* ♦♦♦
“Tock Emma”: The facts about the
20th Battalion, A.1.F., and the trench-
mortars (“Jock,” B. 18/5/’55): In April,
1916, on arrival of the Australian troops
in France, the new Stokes-mortar, cap-
able of firing 40 rounds a minute, was
issued to divisions. In order to retain
secrecy until the opening of the Allied
Somme offensive in July, 1916, certain
restrictions as to its use were imposed by
G.H.Q.;
1. Rate of fire not to exceed six rounds
per minute.
2. Special care to be taken to prevent any
of the Stokes-mortars being captured by the
enemy. When employed in close proximity
to the front-line they will be withdrawn to
a support-line after use.
In May, 1916, two mortars of the sth
Brigade Trench Mortar Battery were
taken into the sector of the line held by
the 20th Battalion near Armentieres.
After firing, the gun-crews were with-
drawn to support-trenches, but the mortars
were left in the front-line —contrary to
G.H.Q. instructions. On May 5 the Ger-
mans, after putting down a heavy bar-
rage, raided the sector and captured
several prisoners and the two* Stokes-
mortars. There was a real hullabaloo
about the business. Several officers were
placed under arrest and courts-martial
and inquiries were held, but in the end
full responsibility for the loss of the
mortars was not sheeted home to any
single officer. Hence, “Who lost the
mortars?” as fighting-words.
❖ ❖ *t*
“Layman”: Dr. James Moffatt’s render-
ing of the passages referred to reads:
Ruth 3, 11: “the "folk of my town know
you are a woman of worth.” (A.V.
“virtuous.”)
Proverbs 12, 4: “a good wife is an honor
to her husband.” (A.V. “a virtuous
woman” “a crown.”)
Proverbs 31, 10: ‘‘A rare find is an able
wife.” (A.V. “Who can find a virtuous
woman.”)
It will be noticed that A.V. virtuous
woman is rendered as woman “of worth,”
“good wife,” and “able wife” respec-
tively.
❖ * *
“Espler”: “C.A.L.’s” yarn about boys
who excused their coming late by “Big
fog on the Harbor,” etc. (B. 13/4/’55)
recalls the old-fashioned type of time-
book used by the bank in London where
I worked about 50 years ago. Each
employee on arrival had to sign his name
in a book on the counter. After 9.30 a.m.
a line was drawn, and anybody who
came after that time had to write his (or
her) reason for lateness.
especially in the winter-time —more than
half the staff arrived “late.” One got used
to seeing “Delayed by fog,” with about
fifty “dittoes” under the words. One
morning a clerk excused himself with
“Wife had twins.” It made no difference
to the fellows, all of whom just put
“ditto” after the first entry! The chief-
clerk called in all the “ditto” blokes and
asked them if they were aware that the
“population of London had gone up by
about forty pairs of twins” that day l
❖ ❖ *
“Geisha”: Japanese police have a
training that should suit them for con-
ducting an orchestra from the podium of
the Sydney Town Hall (B. 23/3/’55). On
point-duty they stand on a wooden box
some 18in. high. A traffic-offence causes
the policeman to jump up and down
frantically on his box, with ,much arm-
waving and whistle-blowing. Only once
have I seen one fall off the box. There
is an ever-present temptation to violate
the traffic-rules to secure an encore.
❖ * ♦>
“Zorok”: N.Z. Minister for Education
Algie, asked in a quiz why Lot was
turned into a pillar of salt, replied without
hesitation “For looking back.” Gonged,
of course. Thus to catch-out an Educa-
tion Minister is on a par with the recent
case of a professor of Mechanical Engin-
eering at an Australian university who,
when the outboard-motor in his boat
broke down, hadn’t a clue on how to fix
it!
♦> ❖
“Stanford”: Are Melbourne residents
born with a natural bias to the right? It
seems the only explanation for the incor-
rigible disregard of the keep-left rule for
pedestrians. Foot-traffic lanes at inter-
sections and mid-block crossings are kept
clearly painted; yet attempt to cross cor-
rectly in the left-hand lane and you risk
head-on collisions for which the other
party invariably expects you to apologise.
You’ll be struck amidships with a pram,
run over by a shopping-jeep, and swiped
in the face by half a gumtree being taken
home to adorn somebody’s fireplace. I
crossed in the right-hand lane myself to-
day. I had to —the left-hand track was
completely occupied by three uniformed
police coming towards me, and walking
stolidly abreast.
❖ ❖
“Narumee”: The visiting executive
was conducted round the machine-shop
by the foreman, a tough and taciturn Old
Australian known as “Grog”; it was a
hot day, and they adjourned for a beer.
The V.E. attempted some polite Small-
talk: “Know Sir Whatsit?” (naming a
very high executive). “Naow,” said Grog.
“Oh . . . know Mr. Whosit?” (another
executive). “Naow,” returned Grog. The
V.E. tried several others, then came down
a grade and catalogued several of the
managerial staff ... At length the V.E.
snorted: “You don’t seem to know any-
one in your own company! ” . Silence.
Then Grog asked: “You know Bob
Bashit in the welding?” “Er —no. Can’t
say I do.” “You know Mike Hoolan in
the fitting-shop?” “No. never heard of
him.” “There y’ are,” remarked Grog,
draining his beer, “there’s blokes you
don’t know neither.”
A TEMPORARY BRUMMELL
“One well-dressed punter protested loudly
at what he called blatant interference in the
straight.”— "Truth:”
You might find snow at Marble Bar,
Uranium in your cabbage-patch;
A debt-collector popular,
A real old chap with jet-black thatch
A wharfie who will raise a sweat,
A poet who has bunce to burn ;
7he elephant that did forget,
A trio singing a duet,
Insurance-salesman taciturn.
It could be, too, that there’d be found
A good-time girl who hated mink;
A vigorous vegetarian hound,
A publican condemning drink —
All the above would, you’d attest,
Be likelier met than any bloke
Who’s always elegantly dressed,
Scorning all clobber but the best,
And yet who punteth on the moke.
You naturally expect to see
McShortodds dressed in bandbox style,
In suit that sports a pedigree,
And seven-quid ( imported) tile.
Nor does it in the least surprise
To see his penciller adorn
His throttle with those top-price ties.
For this law you must recognise:
Shearers are better off than shorn.
The toughened punter wears strong boots
For transport after backing “certs”;
Upon his frame are slop-made suits,
And, when he can afford ’em, shirts.
This wizard, though, who punts, yet in
The Fashion Plate can gain a place —
Is he destined for long to win,
In raiment rich to wrap his skin ?
Brother, he’s just not in the race!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The pick
of the bunch
since
m 7
Chland&
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
It was a great day for the Scots when
Robert Scot Skirving was lately func-
tionally haled at the Royal Prince Alfred
Hospital, Sydney. Seventy-two years ago
the G.O.M. became the hospital’s second
medical superintendent; he’s now 96, and
still practises in Macquarie-street, and is
still senior honorary consultant physician
at the hospital. A graduate of Edinburgh
(also of Dublin and Vienna), he reckons
penicillin is the most revolutionary
advance in medicine he’s seen in his
career, and that certainly takes in a lot,
from ether to carbolic acid, curare to
Caesarian-section. He was trained for the
sea but so much liked what he saw of
Australia when here as a boy in the Mer-
chant Service that he settled in Sydney.
He was a surgeon in the Boer War, major
in the War I A.A.M.C. and wrote three
books, titled, divertingly and diversely,
Our Army in South Africa, Wire Splicing
and Love and Longitude. He also is one
who can actually say he met Florence
Nightingale
PROFESSOR ALEXANDER JOHN
STON, wool-specialist at Wyoming
University ( U.S. ), here to study “all phases
of wool-production, especially preparation
and selling.”
Berthing for a bit in his home State,
Captain J. K. Walton, new Naval-Officer-
in-Charge, Western Australian area.
Born in the dry inland mining-centre of
Mt. Magnet (W.A.), he entered Jervis
Bay college shortly after the War I cease-
fire, and had cruiser Perth for his first ship
in War 11. Followed the Canberra,
and he was in Perth’s sister, Hobart,
when she stopped a Jap torpedo down
aft, in the Solomons. Small ships then —
in a corvette, as boss of the 22nd Mine-
sweeping Flotilla, reaping what the Japs
sowed, and, at the end of the war,
destroyer Quickmatch, in command.
Since then he’s led a frigate flotilla,
served in London on the Joint Services
Staff, and been chief staff-officer to the
Flag-Officer-in-Charge, Sydney. Other,
earlier, qualifications include a nifty
knowledge of Rugger (repping for the
United Services team in England), a sub-
marine-officer’s ticket, and rating as an
interpreter in French.
• •
One couldn’t go far in any direction
in the business world of Adelaide with-
out coming upon Howard Watson Lloyd,
who has passed on at 87. Adelaide-born
(a nephew of Howard Lloyd, first sec-
retary and later general-manager of
Lloyd’s Bank), he went to St. Peter’s
' College; eventually he became chairman
of its board of governors. He was, in his
time, chairman of the boards of the Bank
of Adelaide and the S.A. Brewing Co.,
senior partner of H. L. and A. E. Ayers
(his wife a daughter of H. L. Ayers), and
a director of companies whose interests
included insurance, gas, steamships, wool
and stock-agency. He was knighted in
1937.
Research-workers get on to some queer
experimental gadgets —Dr. W. E. Petersen
surely takes the milk. He’s the chap (Pro-
fessor of Animal Husbandry at Minne-
sota University, U.S.A.) who created an
artificial heart and lung to operate a
cow’s udder, amputated from the parent
body. In Australia to lecture for the
Dairy Produce Board, he’s started his
Queensland itinerary, and will lecture in
all States. Claims that milking-machines
in America have just about reached per-
fection ; no need now even for stripping
after their use.
• •*
“Pip Tok”: “Teddy” Needham, a
dapper little Lancashireman who now
has a background of 40 years in Westra-
lian politics, has been appointed vice-
president of the Australian Advisory
Council for the Physically Incapacitated.
He learnt his boilermaker’s trade in a
Clyde shipyard before coming to Aus-
tralia in 1901, and carried on in that
line at the Fremantle railway-workshops.
In 1904 he got into the Legislative
Assembly for Fremantle. Senator after
that, he was Leader of the Opposition in
the Upper House till unseated ; then got
into the Assembly again for Perth, and
held that seat till he retired two years
ago. The new appointment is in recog-
nition of his work as chairman of the
board of management of the Civilian
Maimed and Limbless Association (W.A.)
since its inception 11 years ago.
• •
Replacing Professor C. N. Watson-
Munro (now chief research-officer to the
Australian Atomic Energy Commission),
Darcy Walker, a 37-year-old Enzedder,
becomes Professor of Physics at Vic-
toria University College, Wellington
(N.Z.). Lately lecturer at Birmingham
University, he had several years of re-
searching in nuclear physics under Pro-
fessor Oliphant. In War II he was with
the British Admiralty, devising remedies
against submarine warfare.
• •
Recently established in Bangkok, the
post of Service-Attache at the Australian
Legation and representation on the mili-
tary liaison group now forming as a re-
sult of the Seato Council meeting in
Manila: appointed in both capacities,
Wing-Commander J. R. Kinninmont,
D. 5.0., D.F.C. and Bar. One-time com-
mander of 78 Wing, Kinninmont led the
Double-Seven Squadron of Meteors over
Korea.
« •
Ashore for good, in time to give point
to the revival of swordsmanship in Wes-
tralia, John Sayers, former P.T. instruc-
tor in the Royal Navy and Champion at
Arms for fencing. In the Royal Tourna-
ment at Earls Court, London, last year,
Sayers was third in foils, and tied with the
champion of Great Britain, R. J. Ander-
son, in the epee competitions. Both
swordsmen were pupils of the famed
French qhampion Professor Roger
Crosnier. Before getting back to work,
Sayers will spend some time on his
father’s farm at Kalamunda, on the hills
overlooking Perth.
• •
Turning-in his badge after 38 years
with the Force in South Australia, Detec-
tive-Inspector W. Gill. He’s headed the
State C. 1.8. for the past four years.
• •
Canberra University College ranged
wide to fill several important appoint-
ments. The Chair of Mathematics goes
to F. V. Atkinson ; he’s now mathematis-
ing at University College, Ibadan, Nigeria.
New Professor of Psychology is C. A.
Gibb, associate-professor of that science
at Dartmouth College, Hanover (U.S.A.).
S. Encel becomes senior lecturer in politi-
cal science; he just slips up from
Melbourne.
Awarded a six-months’ bursary by the
Royal Society and Nuffield Foundation,
Dr. J. G. Smith will spend half of that
time as a sort of guest-worker with
C.5.1.R.0.’s Division of Industrial Chem-
istry in Melbourne. Expert in the study
of animal and vegetable oils and fats, the
visitor normally lectures in organic-
chemistry at the celebrated Dyson Perrins
laboratory at Oxford. He’ll spend the
remaining three months of his bursary
at the National Research Laboratory in
Pretoria, South Africa.
• •
The sudden death of Jack (Alfred John)
Tanner, at 67, was a shock and a loss
to the stud-cattle industry. Tanner stood
alone as a cattle judge. An immigrant of
over forty years ago from the banks of
the Severn, son of a famous family of
Hereford-breeders —his brother Craig is
one of England’s best and a rider in the
Grand National to boot —he soon estab-
lished himself in Australia as a judge
and authority, and many of the greatest
studs in Australia owe meteoric rises to
his choice of blood, including Reynolds’
Hobartville, Mrs. Biddlecombe’s Golf
Hill, Anthony Hordern’s Milton Park
and Jim Scrymgeour’s Netherby, with
all of which he was associated as adviser.
Tanner was also one of Australia’s best
judges of a pig ; for many years he had
joint charge of the pig-section at the
Royal Sydney Show, of which he was
a Council member from 1931 and a
vice-president for many years. He also
served as stud-stock manager with several
leading firms, from the last of which,
Dalgety’s, he retired two months before
his sudden death in the Arabian Sea while
on his way to England to visit his 90-
year-old mother.
• •
Belgian-born woolbuyer C. C. Gheys-
sens, in business in Australia for the past
26 years, also does something more than
spare-time practice in music. He began
composing as an eight-year-old in his
native Mouscron, a big textile centre in
Belgium, where his father was a wool-
buyer. Now 52, with his own wool-
buying business in Sydney, Gheyssens
makes a trip to Europe every year, to get
the latest score on wool-marketing there,
and on his current trip his luggage includes
specially-cut long-playing records of five
of his own compositions, in which he
hopes to interest the 8.8. C. and Contin-
ental broadcasters. The records (by a
symphony orchestra of 85 performers
under the baton of Isidor Goodman),
were played for the A.B.C. One of his
compositions is “The March of the Lost
Legion,” composed in honor of the Rats
of Tobruk. The most ambitious effort is
a symphony, the first he has tackled,
called the “Sydney Symphony Suite.”
OTWAY FALKINER, as Dubois saw
him about the time he had started the
Poll Merino stud at Boonoke.
Robert Hugh Colville Crowe, an Irish
emigrant (vintage 1924), becomes Modera-
tor of the Presbyterian Church in Queens-
land. Missionary for nine years till his
ordination in 1933 he’s served since
mainly in southern Queensland, taking
over his present charge, Brisbane’s St.
Lucia, in 1952.
Luckily for the R.A.S., Harold Sarina
has not (as warned in B. 11/5/ ’55) started
an R.A.S. on his own. From registering
Sydney’s Show since just after War I, he
has now gone to P. A. Yeomans’s Keyline
Foundation, organising-secretary. If the
new foundation has to be organised, it’s
certainly got the man to do it!
SIR NORMAN KATER, of Egelabra
Merino stud at Warren ( N.S.W. ). The
Egelabra Merinos derived from Samuel
Marsdens flocks.
Crossing to Westralia, Presbyterian
Enzedder Rev. Dr. Francis William
Rutherford Nichol graduated from Knox
College, Dunedin, won a Hall Travelling
Scholarship through Melbourne College
of Divinity, and pursued his studies in
England, Scotland and the U.S. Of late
pastor of St. Andrews, in South Canter-
bury, as well as directing theological
studies in Westralia he will shepherd the
Scotchbyterians of South Perth.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Whangarei (N.Z.), at 97, Mrs. Johanna
Mcßae, the lone survivor of the Nova Scotian
migration to New Zealand in 1857. She was
born aboard the ship which carried the Scots to
found the town of Waipu, North Island.
At 65, in Melbourne, Ernest E. Vines, who
received more writs in his lifetime than all the
criminals in Melbourne put together. Being
joint-secretary of the Councils of Fire, Accident
and Marine Underwriters of the Common-
wealth, and general-secretary of the Fire,
Accident and Marine Underwriters’ Associa-
tions, he was nominal defendant in all hit-run
cases; injured people who were unable to
identify the motorist who had hit them had to
sue him. He never appeared in court, however.
At 68, Daniel Luck, one of the Westralian
Royal Agricultural Society’s leading figures.
Born on a Queensland station, where his father
was head stockman, Luck was' associated with
sheep and cattle all his life. He shifted west
in 1907, joined the stock-department of Elder
Smith in Perth, shifted to Emanuel Brothers,
and was manager at the end. For 15 years he
was ringmaster at the R.A.S. shows at Clare-
mont, just out of Perth.
in Christchurch (N.Z.), at 73, Richard Wall-
work, director of the Canterbury University
College School of Art. Product of Manchester
School of Art and Royal College of Art,
London, he first made contact with Canterbury
U.C. in 1911, became director in 1927, and
resigned in 1945 to devote his time to painting.
He exhibited at the Royal Academy, the Pans
Salon and English galleries, and was a member
of the Australian Society of Painters and
Etchers.
In Melbourne, Very Rev. Father Jeremiah
Murphy, S.J., rector of Newman College from
1923 to 1954, when he retired. The Queen,
when here, decorated him with the C.M.u.
for services to education in Australia.
In Sydney, Engineer-Captain R. Berry-Smith,
M.V.0., R.A.N., one of the few remaining
black-gangers who’d coaled-ship. Bachelor ot
Engineering from Adelaide University, he
joined the A.I.F. in 1917, trained for a while
as a field-engineer, then transferred to the
Navy. He served in the first Sydney, and m
cruiser Australia, then for most of War If
was principal naval overseer in Queensland,
responsible for the many frigates and corvettes
turned-out in Brisbane and Maryborough. After
*the war, head of the Navy’s torpedo-factory at
Sydney’s Neutral Bay, and, till his retirement
in 1953, in charge of naval construction at
Newcastle. His son, Philip Berry-Smith, is
naval overseer at Cockatoo Docks, engineer-
commander.
In Sydney, at 76, Horace William Whiddon,
former M.L.C. and head of the firm of wool-
merchants bearing his name. Old Fortian, he
had wide out-of-business interests— president ot
the National Park Trust, vice-president of the
R.A.S., director of Royal Prince Alfred Hospi-
tal, and a life-member of N.S.W. Rugby Union.


JOURNEY’S END


ABORIGINALITIES
LONE GUMTREE
Lone in the paddock, lording it, I stand,
Thrusting forth lusty limbs on every hand;
Each one, rejoicing, fair and freely grows
Over my pearl-grey bole washed with old rose.
A pool of purple shadow bathes my feet
Where the shorn sheep drowse in the noonday
heat.
No envious rivals round about me push
Battling for sun and water in the bush
Where I was born, a unit in the crowd,
All lighting for the little space allowed.
My roots run sweetly with an easy mind
Welcome to every waterdrop they find;
No longer for bare elbow-room I pine,
Foot-room and elbow-room ad lib. are mine.
Who slew my spindling brethren, one and all,
Leaving me sole to flourish and grow tall,
To overlook the spacious countryside,
The sea-blue prospect stretching far and wide,
Felled and uprooted them and in their place
Sowed a proud pasture of abounding grass?
To what kind pioneer my thanks are due
I know not, nor can know, but if I knew
His name, his race, how willingly I’d bow
My lofty head and wave my boughs, and how
I’d bid my whispering leaves sing gratefully
Wind-wakened anthems to his memory.
N .z. Arnold Wall.
* * * *
NO doubt a suggestion that the pesti-
ferous flying-fox could make an
interesting pet would meet with incredu-
lous disapproval in most quarters, but that
was our experience when, last year, we
had to make a close study of the big bats
in their natural habitat as the subject of
a technicolor sequence in a film on
Australian animals.
The location was Tambourine
Mountain, in Queensland, where a colony
had been established. By beating the
butt-end of fallen palm-leaves against the
trunks of trees we were able to produce
sufficient “gun-fire” to stir the sleeping
hordes into activity for filming. In the
confusion a couple of half-grown speci-
mens fell to the floor of the jungle and
we secured them for close-up work.
These were kept in a large box and fed
on pawpaw, mango and mashed banana
when available, with tinned tropical fruit-
salad helping the menu: they just lapped
it up, jostling each other on the small
bough in their box to get at it.
They provided much interesting
material on their less-observed habits,
not the least interesting their ability to
take off from level ground, a point
which has been much disputed.
Completing our fieldwork, we re-
turned to Southport for a spell, and dur-
ing the next fortnight the two became
so attached to us that they would claw
pieces out of each other to gain the favor
of being handled and petted. Our camera-
man achieved the ultimate in animal-
training when he taught them to fly from
their box to a stick held in his hand.
We all became really attached to the
intelligent little beasts, and. though they
are declared pests, we were all rathei
happy that they “escaped” on the eve of
our departure for other pastures.
A. H.
* * * *
“Jimkee”: A handsome 21-year-old
lubra named Eileen staggered into Alex-
andria Downs Station, in the N.T., after
walking 250 miles in her bare feet
stony spinifex-country. She made the
trek solo to be with her boy-friend, Don,
who was a witness in a case in which
three men had been charged with
cattle-duffing. Eileen was at
Wollogorang station, almost on
the Queensland border in the
Gulf, when she heard that Don
had to come to Alexandria as
a witness. Eating only fish and
goanna, it took the lady more
than two weeks to follow the
cattle-tracks to Alexandria,
through country completely new
to her. Which all goes to show
that Don’s going to find it hard
should he ever go walkabout —
minus Eileen, that is.
* * *
“Jackstay”: A couple of
trawlermen working off Red-
head, on the central N.S.W.
coast, fouled some obstruction
on the seabed on the first shot
of the day and lost a complete
seine-net and two coils of rope —
total value, about £3OO. The rest
of the day they spent in port,
hanging another net, and set
forth again the following dawn.
In a pea-soup fog they shot the
second net with nothing but
dead-reckoning to give a rough
idea of their whereabouts —and hauled up
the net and lines lost the day before.
* * * *
“Peter Simple”: One small error in
George Lauri’s otherwise excellent back-
ground-story of the Burns-Johnson fight
(B. 18 /5 / ’55) —Johnson won in the 14th,
not the 13th, round. My memory of the
event is as clear as the day it happened,
because as a youth I rode a pushbike 15
miles into Grafton (N.S.W.) over un-
mentionable roads to learn the result, and
then 15 miles back to spread the sad
tidings among a group of pals that the
black man had triumphed. Burns was
popular with us because, when I wrote to
him earlier and told him we met regularly
in a country bam to improve our know-
ledge of the noble art by boxing with
each other, he sent me an autographed
photo, and his own book on How to
Learn the Art of Self-defence for the use
of members. I reached Grafton about an
hour before the fight was due to start and
waited patiently outside the “Daily
Examiner” office with about 50 others
for the result to be posted. Eventually
a clerk came out and pinned a telegram to
“Dash it! And I forgot to bring my coat this morning!”
the board. Eagerly we entered round
to read what it said: “ J °hns°n won Mth
round police stopped fight. Hastily jot-
ting down the words on a scrapofpaper
I hopped on my jigger and lit out tor
home. That night at our “boxing-school”
we gloomily discussed the result and
speculated on the possibility of Jim
Jeffries coming out of retirement to regain
the world’s heavyweight title for the white
race. I recall clearly one of our members
closing the discussion by remarking: “If
they ever meet, Johnson will thrash
Jeffries too.” How right he was!
* * * *
“Harbel”: Hooligans who broke into
tombs in a Parramatta cemetery strewed
a skull and the bones of pioneers about,
“Now hold it, both of you!”
The bones were those of Dr. Harris, sur-
geon on the First Fleet, and the Rev.
Samuel Marsden, who combined minister-
ing to the souls of convicts, punishing
them in .his capacity of magistrate, and
running a large and profitable farm,
Harris’s name is perpetuated in Harris
Park, now almost swallowed-up by Parra-
matta ; the cleric left his name on Mars-
den-street, close to Parramatta station,
The cemetery is a wilderness of orna-
mental shrubs and hedges grown to
tangled confusion behind a high brick
wall and equally-high, and locked,
wooden gate. I have long been mystified
as to why Parramatta, a normally very
historic-minded place, could allow this
historic spot to remain so incredibly
neglected. However, the vandalism nia>
stir enough public indignation to cause
the cemetery to be cleaned-up and kept
open for general inspection. As for the
perpetrators, they are fortunate that the
Rev. Marsden himself is not alive to try
them. That Christian gentleman once
sentenced a convict to 1000 lashes. The
victim, of course, died before the full
quota was inflicted.
“ S andy” : After 27 years work the
Flying Doctor Service m Queensland
becomes the Royal Flying Doctor Service
of Australia (Queensland Section) It
was announced in Canberra in March
that the Queen had consented to use of
the prefix. Inspired by the iate Rev. John
Flynn ( Flynn of the Inland ), the ser-
vice began operations at C.loncurry (Q.)
in May, 1928.
* * * *
“c AYrinrHn<r k>ii v the
arch deslyer of o,h,r b"rd/eggs’ and
chicks is the pied currawong. Small birds
that build open nests in exposed positions
are soft-snaps, but the murky marauder
uses guile when he deals with more for-
midable fowl. When the nest to be
ravished is chosen, currawongs fly round
and round the tree calling loudly. Then
they dodge rapidly in and out amongst
the branches, aiming all the while to dis-
concert the defenders, and draw them
away from the nest. Peewees, in partial-
lar, seem to fall for these tactics. Still,
despite his strong black beak and the
baleful gleam in his yellow-rimmed eyes,
the currawong takes a bit of a hiding
now and then from'a smaller bird by way
of squaring the ledger. Even so, it
remains heavily loaded on his side.
* * * *
“Mugga Way”: Minister for Terri-
tories Paul Hasluck had a sufficient
answer for a member who reported an
assertion that Australia spent only 2yd.
a year per head on its aborigines. He
said direct expenditure on the aboriginal
population, plus due share of health- and
education-spending, was about £1,300,000
for the
abongme That’s three times the
a neaa eacn y „ , p * •
average income of Sou* East Asian
peoples nin i j
Sea.
* * * *
“Mingari”: That the lost wander in
circles is true enough, but the side to
wb i c h they stray doesn’t depend the
hemisphere they’re in (B. 18/5/’55).
jf s simply due to a natural, but un-
realised, tendency on the part of the
wanderer to follow the sun, which he does
unconsciously, no matter how he may
try to guard against it. The experienced
bushman keeps a straight line ecause is
subconscious has been trained by years of
experience to allow just the right amount
of “set-off’ as the sun swings and he
proceeds on his journey. Also, the tact
that he is in most cases using the sun as
a clock helps him to keep it in the correct
relation to his chosen course. The new-
chum doesn’t do any of these things, and
therefore not only gets lost but stays lost
—which, while food, water and sense
hold out, never happens to the bushman.
Indeed, wasn’t it Dan’l Boone who once
admitted that it was quite true he d never
been lost in his wanderings in the Amerr
can wilderness, although he d once been
“mighty puzzled for about ten days /
* * * *
“Ophir”: Joe Blake’s ■ bellows-capacity
seems be inconsistent. I’ve seen a red-
hellied black submerged in a bore-drain
aa hour: yet one I chased for 300yds.
did the distance before conking out
of breath- Another that I’d trapped in
a §hip’s-tank suffocated quickly when 1
{ OSSed a handful of grass in through the
man _h o le and set it alight,
* * *
A gjy Qf FENCING
\ NYBODY got a.few crowbars, shovels,
A si ghting-stkks and wire-strainers to
? g Be g ause there ’ s a decen t sort of
f J ncing _ job coming U p in W .A. It’s on
Moola g Bulla, m the East Kimberleys,
according to a Perth report, there’s
* ’ ~ t done
4^ he place covers nearly H million
acres> J d a Queensland cattle bloke,
Allan Goldman, £lOO,OOO when he bought
j t f rom the W.A. Government, which was
running it as an aboriginal cattle-station,
Goldman reckons the fence will cost
£250 a mile and will use 800 tons of steel-
P°« s wire. Govern-
J™ la ?r) la was cost 8
J 3 7 » £“• .^ 0 ‘ dn ™ 1 “ s[l p.
bou Bh* J* S, “ n sbnd Nan-
gg&Sft
Ahh<w w and Marab-
M°°™ d °°r ab > p.^ilw a rwick) and
(j n 9 eo 5' r „On Moola
Hufenden , (H ?£nma^J^-Amos,
Mia they intend to run Aberdeen Mgu ,
wl l h m the GOTemment
P art ° £ the b JB “A ato SS,
was made up of a school for abo.eWW^
a . f d h °?.lers aS
and tv ™ * e “ h S jL' afos and
500 beasts a year to fee fi’iooo
£eed ‘ n S and dlothmg them cost £ll,wu
seems a lot of beasts and a lot
of money, for the 1947 census-report
said: “Moola Bulla Aboriginal Cat e
Station: occupied dwellings, 1; persons,
79.” . . .
Anyhow, you’ve got to wish good-luc
to a man prepared to build a 430-rm e
fence and risk big dough on trying Biactv
Polls in country not usual for them,
Old-timer.


'T'HREE knocks on the door may serve
as ritual in the opening-ceremony
for a country pub in these degenerate
days (B. 11/5/’55), but it sounds pretty
tame compared with the ritual in the roar-
ing days of the Golden Mile. For Han-
nan-street’s hostelries there certainly was
the ceremony of knocking on the door,
but after that the portals were flung wide
by a minion concealed behind them for
the purpose and Mine Host seized the
key and hurled it far out into the blue
as a sign to the assembled citizenry,
parched with sun and fustian oratory,
that the pub was now in operation and
would remain so for 24 hours a day.
Whether there were, in those parts and
times, any laws restricting trading-hours,
none paused to inquire—the Goldfields
then, like Broken Hill today, bent such
law as existed to the popular will. —
“Gulliver.”
*** , •
“Pat”: Parental solicitude does not
enter into the economy of our mantids
(B. 27/4/’55). In our three species only
the husbands can fly; the female, much
heavier and bulkier, remains twig-bound
on stunted wings. Mantids have insatiable
appetites, especially the females, who in-
variably devour their successive husbands
between compulsory divorces. Becoming
gravid, Ma proceeds to construct a
papery capsule from caudal exudations
to contain and shelter her numerous eggs.
Within weeks, or months —according to
weather-conditions—the young mantids
emerge and stagger about their domicile
on shaky stilts. Lunch is obtained by
opportunists grabbing and devouring
their relatives. These lusty survivors drop
to the ground, grow, moult, grab and
devour, with clutching spiky arms directed
by queer twists of greedy-eyed heads.
* * * *
“Sack”: John Hunter, author, big-game
hunter, game-warden in Kenya and pro-
“The missus WOULD pick tonight to go to the pictures!”
bably the greatest living authority on wild
creatures, gives an instance of two animals
fighting for, presumably, “just the hell of
it, which “A.H.” says no creature but
Homo sap. will do (B. 4/5/’55). Hunter
descnbes how he came upon the contes-
tants beside a churned-up track leading
to a creek. The spoor told him the story
as plainly as if it had been written. The
hippo, had been to the creek for a drink
and was returning when the rhino, came
down the track. True to the species’ repu-
tation for ill-temper, Rhino charged,
Hippo was not restricted for room; he
could have stepped aside or lumbered
away. Instead, he chose to accept the
challenge. The odds favored the rhino.:
he was equipped with a solid, if blunt,
horn, and had generations of fighting
experience behind him. But he didn’t win.
The huge teeth of the hippo, hacked him
to death. Hippo didn’t win, either.
Hunter found both carcasses lying within
a few yards of each other. Commenting
that the fight need not have occurred, the
author reflects: “Perhaps a point of
honor was involved.”
*, * * *
“Mmgari”: Not only in rocky or hilly
country are the acoustics of the Austra-
lian bush peculiar (B. 11/5/’55). They
can be just as baffling on the plains, in
the brief time between sunrise and full-
day, when you’re hunting for the horse
you belled-and-hobbled the night before.
Start after him before dawn, and you
can pinpoint the direction of the bell;
wait until broad day and, no matter how
keen your ear, you’ll hear the faint sound
of bells from every quarter, yet none of
them definite enough to be worth follow-
ing. Face the early-morning breeze, and
the sound’s up-wind. Turn away, and it’s
as tantalisingly vague from that, or any
other, direction. Bellbirds can’t be
blamed, for there aren’t any in those
parts; nor, as you know full well,- are
there any other neddies belled and
hobbled within 20 miles or so. There’s
nothing for it but to find and follow the
tracks left by a night’s wandering in
search of feed. It’s a phenomenon I’ve
encountered as often on the Flinders
River Downs (N.Q.) as on the coastal
plains of nor’-west W.A.; and so has
many a bushman with whom I’ve worked
in those parts. They all had different
theories to account for it; mine is that
it’s due to blood pounding in the ears
as the result of intense concentration.
Any others?
* * * *
“Saaedi”: The nankeen-kestrel took
off and soared with serene grace over the
waving grass. He came down to about
40ft., hovered a while, then dropped to
the ground, emerging almost immediately
with a grasshopper. During the half-hour
I watched he never missed once, despite
the difficulty of focusing the small grey
pest in the moving grass. He took 10
’hoppers in that time, poor going com-
pared with champions such as the ibis
and the bustard, but the prey weren’t
plentiful in this instance. In any case,
when I returned two hours later he was
still on the job, and no doubt knocked
up a good tally before the day was done.
* * * *
“5.4 E.”: “Thoroughbrace” is the term
for that “laminated leather-strap” (B.
18/5/’55) which served the coaches of
Cobb and Co. in lieu of springs, and
they were just about the only things that
would have served on the outback tracks
over which those high-piled vehicles rolled
and swayed behind a team of eight. The
last of the vehicles I remember seeing
plied from Charleville to Adavaie in
s.-w. Queensland, and was still on’the
road not much more than 30 years ago
Though the glory of its “Chinese ver-
milion” had long departed, the coach was
still worth watching as it came plunging
down the dusty street to the post-office
for the mail, a fresh team harnessed the
wheelers trotting and the leaders at the
canter, and a bow-wave of kids, dogs and
stray goats flying for the safety of the
kerb. It was a point of honor with the
driver to have only one hand on the
reins—the other was occupied in lighting
the pipe fresh-loaded for the moment of
departure. And if the passenger on the
box had paid a premium for his seat, I
never saw one at that moment looking as
though he reckoned it money weli spent
all his energies were devoted to staying
put There was al brief moment of
thunder as the outfit roared over the
bridge across the Warrego, and then there
was , a dust-cloud dwindling down the
and the first 6 “tLn? ** e , Ward Plain
twn hnnit r, h: L 2 ° mi awa V~ a
tlTos^mad?i?tb Whl£ s was good S° ing ° n
hose roads m those days.
“Take no notice of him — he's just showing off."
“Flight”: The duck was putting up a
valiant fight against a big carpet-snake
under an outbuilding no more than 18in.
off the ground. The duck’s clutch of eggs
had good possibilities, so I was co-opted
as her ally in the fight. The torch I car-
ried luckily dazzled the carpet sufficiently
to allow me to get a swipe in where it
would do most good; but it was when I
began resetting the disturbed eggs—Joe
had had time only to snavel one —that I
hit real trouble. And I call it damned
ingratitude for the fowl vociferously to
urge me on in my efforts to preserve her
and her unhatched against the Evil One,
and next minute to go me savagely as a
nest-robber. I doubt, from her sortie
against me, if she required my help in the
first place.
* * * *
“Marcus”: Know a country petrol-
dealer who puts used oil to work as a
customer-builder. In his district gravel
roads create dust-worry for home-
owners. The dealer collects crankcase-
drainings and spreads them over the roads
in front of customers’ homes. Customers
who come in to thank him and pay him
are told that it is a free service for those
who buy his petrol.
* * * *
“Jackstay”: “Laetitia’s” Jap diver (B.
18/5/’55) must have possessed extraordin-
arily shaped and extremely dtictile calves
to have sustained a “nasty wound” at the
jaws of a gummy-shark. One of the most
ineffectual of the clan Carckarhinus,
Gummy has been equipped by Nature
for anything but offensive action.
Gummy’s mouth isn’t only toothless, it’s
most inconveniently placed for biting
anything, and only fulfils effectively its
appointed purpose of sucking small mol-
luscs from the seabed. These are then
ground-up by the plates which the jaws
contain in lieu of teeth. I’ve caught scores
of the tribe on N.S.W. beaches, or trawl-
ing off-shore, and confidently assert that
the only way one could suffer a bite would
be to thrust portion of the body, into the
shark’s mouth. One can get a finger
crunched by lack of care when removing
a hook, but the calf of the leg—why,
that Jap must have jammed it down the
poor old gummy’s neck to suffer even
a squeeze.
.<!** *
“Jarrah”: Choom, not long out from
the “Old Country” and newly settled on
a block in a remote part of Westralia’s
dairying sou’-west, became badly slewed
when he took a short-cut through dense
jarrah-forest when on a visit to a neigh-
bor. It was getting late when, some hours
afterwards, he came to a fence, which he
followed till it brought him to a clearing
—and a house. The place was in dark-
ness, so, deciding not to disturb the in-
mates, he rolled his coat for a pillow
and curled-up on the hard veranda to
await the morning. At dawn came the
realisation —he’d camped on his- own
veranda!
“B. A. Ker”: The bird was a stranner
in our district. The plumage, off-whffe o-
or a very light grey, suggested a fish-hawk
though apparently he wasn’t against a
change of diet. And well the pigeom knew
it! Their frantic bursts of speed and
abrupt wheelings were very similar to the
actions of a flcSk of once srw
“sandwiched” between two hawks. The
starlings got out of danger by suddenly
a * though at a word of Command splfe
tm g cleanly into two tight groups and
flummoxing their enemies into parting
forces and thus losing the advantage. I
was wondering whether the badly-scared
pigeons would try some similar manoeuvre
when the flight swerved in mid-wheel and
sped upwards—straight at the silent
menace. Whether the leaders actually
made contact with the big fellow wasn’t
clear, but as the flock swept on he side-
slipped abruptly and allowed himself to
be borne away on an air-current. Attack
is still the best defence.
* * * *
“Coaster”: “Multum in Parvo” (B.
4/5/’55) asks how 17 bullocks were yoked.
Fifty years ago in this nor’-west part of
the Speck our bullock-driver easily solved
that. From his team of 20 bullocks one
would sometimes be a.w.l. at yoking-time.
It was then that he’d co-opt the services
of Dart, who was harnessed with the
leading-harness of a horse, collar and
hames reversed (i.e., upside-down); and
throughout the day Dart would majestic-
ally lead the others.
* * # *
/'MPPSLAND (Vic.) has answered the
” charge that local authorities do noth-
ing about preserving the history of their
districts.
Shires and boroughs there are throwing
in £5O apiece to make up £l2OO to cover
the cost of printing a Gippsland history
got together by the late Charles Daly, a
headmaster of Sale primary school, whose
historical articles attracted attention in
the “Gippsland Times” some years ago.
Daly’s MS. covers the time from early
exploration up to 1942 ; about £3OO will
be spent employing a historian to bring
it up to date.
Gippslanders are confident that sales
of the history will at least cover cost of
production. So they should, not only in
local sales but elsewhere, for it is still
true that in any Australian city the aver-
age family’s history has its roots in the
country; and district-histories, as anyone
who has worked on a country newspaper
knows, have a fascination of their own.
Australia is very rich in this sort of
thing, if only it can be got before it is
too late.
All States have their well-known dis-
tricts —Gippsland, the Mallee, the Wim-
mera, Western District, Riverina, Monaro,
Hunter River, Northern Rivers, New
England, the Atherton, the Gulf, Darling
Downs, Barossa Valley, S. Australia’s
South-east Coast and West Coast, W.A.’s
Goldfields and South-west, Tasmania’s
North, South and North-west. All may
not be as lucky as Gippsland, which had
its Charles Daly to gather the material
as a labor of love, but it is a poor district
that hasn’t residents of his character—
all they need is encouragement. That
could well come from local authorities
on the Gippsland pattern.
Incidentally, Eve Langley’s novel The
Pea Pickers is mostly set in Gippsland.
One of the best contributions to Austra-
lian literature for the period 1925-50, it
burns Gippsland on the reader’s heart.
C.S.
SHEARER’S LOVE
The season must be long where my love has
gone,
The pens crammed full, and sheds a-plenty.
No letter ever comes from my dear
Who rings each board where he stops to shear.
I bet he strips the greasiest fleece so fast
No rouseabout has time to stand around and
yam.
I do not know how far, how very far,
It is to where my lover shouts for tar.
He must be piling up a great big cheque
To build a brand-new house for him and me.
And still upon my flesh there lingers
The gentle touch of his soft fingers.
I think that there can be no workless wet days
there
To give my darling time to sit and write to me.
I do not know how many years ago
It was I stood and wept to watch him go.
Yes, the season must be long where he has
gone,
The pens crammed full and sheds a-plenty,
Else surely he’d come back to me, my dear
Who rings each board where he stops to shear.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.


7 //' HUM
NVHI
»>v v\W\W\w
in Independent Tests
carried out by
university engineers
\
Esso
\V
\ N \
EXTRA
MOTOR OIL
GET IT TODAY FROM..
Your
(manth)
Retailer
Divorce Notice
TO BRONISLOVAS VITKUNAS address
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
ALDONA ONA VITKUNAS has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground of desertion by
you for a continuous period of three years
or more and she is seeking the exercise
of the Court’s discretion pursuant to
Section 27 (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
and Personal Status Code 1948 If you
desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within Forty clear days from the date of
this publication In default of your so
doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce Judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.
DATED this 19th day of May, 1955. —
G. J. RUSE, Acting Registrar. FRED
CURRAN, ESQ., of Padbury Buildings,
Forrest Place, Perth, in the State of
Western Australia, Solicitor for the
Plaintiff.
1868
Established
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
> St .
"* anxM '
KVArnnso
5 MOS3I3VC
TRADE
r MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Business. Rollery.etc.
DON'T WE WANT OUR SMALL MINES?
By K. H. McMahon
WITH all the publicity and
public support that has been
given lately to uranium promo-
tions, we are apt to lose sight of
the small companies formed to
mine metals outside this
“glamor” bracket. The small
mining-company is a section of
our economy we cannot afford
to be without, but is gradually
being lost to us, although there
are readily available solutions for
its survival.
Why We Need Them
Small mining prospects do not
necessarily become large mining
operations, but most large mines
began that way. Although
individually small, they command
an importance far beyond their
size when it is realised that the
large companies can rarely be
induced to develop new property
unless the return can be calcu-
lated in the millions. Because of
this, many ore-bodies that are too
small to be touched by the major
concerns will remain untapped,
unless more incentive is given the
smaller mining-companies. These
lesser ore-bodies, if permitted to
be proven-up and worked by the
small operator, become, in
aggregate, a substantial part of
our country’s mineral reserves —
reserves that otherwise are lost
to us.
Experience shows that some
mineral deposits once thought
too small to be of economic
importance have become pros-
perous operations due to further
knowledge gained during
development by a small com-
pany, which can take greater
In a covering-letter accom-
panying this article, Mr. K. H.
McMahon writes from
Wallace, Idaho, U.S.A.: —
My wife and I have travelled by
car some 20,000 miles in Western
Canada, the United States and
Mexico studying mining opera-
tions, and are now looking forward
to October, when we leave from
New York on our way home. It
has been convenient and pleasant
to keep in touch with affairs at
home through “The Bulletin,” and
more particularly with mining
news through “The Bulletin” and
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly.”
risks than can a large concern.
Large companies, with corres-
pondingly greater exploration
facilities, naturally shy away
from the prospecting of scien-
tifically unfavorable areas, qnd
the often-found mineral deposits
in these areas are left to the
single operators and small
, syndicates for discovery.
Something that cannot be over-
looked in a country where
socialisation is an ever-present
danger is the importance of small
mining-companies as a deterrent
to any nationalisation moves in
the mining industry. While it
would be a relatively easy thing
to take control of an industry
run by a few large corporations,
“According to your reference you're sober, intelligent,
hard-working .”
the presence of numerous small
mining concerns makes the task
of any would-be socialising
Government immeasurably more
difficult.
Small mining-operations
provide an excellent training-
ground for miners, engineers,
geologists and administrators,
particularly as in a small opera-
tion a man has a chance to gain
an overall knowledge more
rapidly. Added to this is the
fact that his potential, or lack of
it, is more readily recognised
than is the case in major
concerns, where numbers often
obscure talent.
It is false logic to depend on
present reserves or expansion of
reserves in our established mines,
for, since mining is a “depletion
industry,” it must have continual
transfusions in the shape of new
discoveries if it is to survive and
prosper. Every new mine
brought into production, no
matter how small, sends money
into the Treasury, not merely by
direct taxation, but by virtue of
the numerous service ahd
consumer industries dependent
upon mining as a basic industry.
Each new discovery and sub-
sequent operation increases our
national wealth, our Government
revenue, and our defence reserves
of strategic materials. By sup-
pressing new mining-operation
we are therefore decreasing our
national wealth, decreasing our
revenue, and at least slowing-
down the acquisition of adequate
defence-materials.
Our small mining-companies
are of major importance to Aus-
tralia’s welfare, but there are
many difficulties in the way of
their continued existence.
Why We Are Losing Them
The “feast-or-famine” treat-
ment of mining companies, due
to the fluctuation of metal prices,
is a trial many small companies
cannot weather. The big com-
panies ride the high-price periods
and coast when the slumps are
with us, but t most of the small
men cannot stand even a tem-
porary cessation of activity with
its accompanying deterioration
of mine and equipment.
The usual small mining-
company is never too secure,
having little chance to accumu-
late sufficient capital-reserves to
withstand the rapid fluctuation
of metal prices. In industry we
have become used to the present-
day hazards of high taxation,
unsettled labor-conditions and
supply shortages, and these,
together with the inevitably
increasing trend to lower-grade
ore-bodies, are problems that are
surely pushing-under the small
mining-operators.
Apart from the glamor-baby
of the industry in the shape of
uranium, the prospective
promoters of small operations
get little encouragement when
seeking capital to finance the
necessary exploration and
development. In high-price
periods profit is so heavily taxed
that there is little left with which
to finance expansion or repay
investment, and this fact, together
with repetitive operating losses
and shut-down experience, prove
too great a discouragement for
the average would-be investor.
The man to whom the small
mines look for financial assist-
ance now has little enough money
fo spare with the present high
taxation, and he is reluctant to
invest this residue, of already
heavily-taxed income in what
must necessarily be a “risk”
speculation. Moreover, in any
investment the taxation depart-
ment becomes an unequal
partner, who takes no risks, but
who shares substantially in any
return, the amount depending on
the tax-bracket applicable to the
investor. The investor who does
risk his money under such un-
favorable conditions understand-
ably wants first-preference in any
profits, often leaving little or
nothing for expansion, with
corresponding liquidation of ore-
reserves.
Not so many years ago the
investor was quite willing to back
prospecting parties or new small
mining properties; but not any
more. Nowadays the investor
sees little attraction in a situa-
tion where he loses if the opera-
tion is a failure, and too many
years elapse before he can cover
his initial investment even if the
operation is a success.
Too-high taxation, then,
together with rapidly fluctuating
metal-prices, are the obstacles
faced by the small mining-
companies in making investment
with them an attractive gamble.
With this inability to appear
attractive to the investor, the
only source of capital to the
small mining-operator dries up.
How To Help Them
Firstly, the small mining-
companies need all the aid and
encouragement they can get from
the Government in the form of
tax-benefits and liberal loans.
Any actions along these lines
should be speeded up in view of
the vital importance of the small
man’s survival. Two of the fore-
most mining countries in the
world, the United States and
Canada, recognise this problem,
and have various schemes assist-
ing mining in general, but the
small operator in particular.
Canada allows three years tax-
free after a property comes into
o Continued, on next page)


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
7
Established units i» Reign of
Qeorge 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas" has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
NJS.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Calculated risk
the stakes, the law
• •
of averages, and old lady luck .
IlSfe ':■
,
mm
-- .....vi
tfea
i
§
c
a
1
ft
ft
;
'■:;. - ; '
: /»I
,: *
m m
■m: : '
■V■ ■
-
:
■
mm
mm
9EBma&&~', ** w
FIRE HAZARD is one risk you
can’t afford to gamble on!
(It can put a company out of business overnight!)
There’s no telling where fire will 6trike—but official figures tell us when! Every 36
hours, fire threatens industry, leaving behind it disfigured plant, twisted steel and,
sometimes, broken bodies. Every 36 hours someone, too busy to stop and think,
gets hit hard by a risk that was always there, threatening. Stop a minute and calculate
the risk. What would one bad fire to-night mean to your company to-morrow?
Get the facts now on "round-the-clock" "Automatic" Protection.
“Automatic” protection is complete fire protection—split-second guardian of plant
and property every minute of every day —and while you sleep at night! Another
week’s delay could mean unrecoverable loss to your business—a gamble you can’t
afford to take. Call in “Automatic’s” specialists now. Fire-protection engineers in
your State will help you check up on the danger spots and familiarise you with the
equipment needed to protect it. A telephone call places you under no obligation.
“AUTOMATIC” Fire Protection Equipment
includes—
“ Automatic” Sprinkler and Fire Alarm Systems:
Completely engineered and installed by us and
examined, tested and serviced weekly, ensuring
100 per cent, efficiency.
“Oilfyre” (Atomised Water) Systems:
Specialised equipment for extinguishing fires in
oil and other inflammable liquids. Indoor and
outdoor equipment.
“Atlas” CO2 Gas Systems: Used extensively to
protect electrical equipment——non-conducting.
“Atlas” for highly inflammable liquids—petrol,
oil, paint, lacquer, alcohol, etc.
“Automatic” Hand Chemical Extinguishers:
All types available—Soda Acid, Foam, Carbon
Tetrachloride, etc.
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLERS PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: Alexandria Works, 618 Botany Road, Alexandria, N.S.W. Telephone: MU 2476
VKJTOWA: Car lto" W°rks, 179 Berkley Street, Carlton. D. W. Roberts, Director. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Edwardstown Works, 663 South Road, Edwardstown.
N. R. Dowling. Director. WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 18 Irwin Street, Perth. D. I. Murray, Manager. QUEENSLAND: Hendra Works, 456 Nudgee R oac | Hendra
J. E. Robinson, Director. NEW ZEALAND: Penrose Works, 17 Beasley Avenue, Penrose. G. K. Bunce, Manager.
production, during which time
the operator has a chance to
recoup some of the necessarily
large expenditure incurred in
proving-up the ore-body and get-
ting into production. The United
States, through its Defence Pro-
duction Act, provides aid and
incentives to the mining industry
in general, including Govern-
ment guarantee of regular com-
mercial loans, and more particu-
larly through the Defence
Minerals Explorations Aid,
which provides long - term
interest-free loans to enable
operators to carry out explora-
tion projects that would other-
wise be beyond their reach.
Furthermore, these loans do not
have to be repaid unless worth-
while commercial ore-reserves
are discovered.
Small operators need the
assistance and encouragement of
the major corporations rather
than aloof treatment as com-
petitors. As their bulwark
against socialisation it should be
in the nature of self-interest for
the big companies to encourage
growth of the small mining man.
This encouragement should be
assistance in the form of provid-
ing the facilities of competent
consultants in geology, engineer-
ing, taxation, legal problems and
administrative problems, at rates
the small man can afford.
Thus only by Government tax-
benefits to both small mining
operators and investors, by
liberal loans, and by assistance
and encouragement from the
major mining corporations, can
the small companies hope to
survive. It may take some time,
but if no help is forthcoming we
will inevitably lose the small
operator—and that is a loss we
cannot afford.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
XTEW ZEALAND’S monetary
commission, which looks as
if it will sit for weeks yet, lays
claim to a record —it seems to
be the first appointed to inquire
into money and credit at a time
of overmuch money and overfull
inflation. Usually such inquiries
are given their head when there’s
not enough of anything except
unemployment. r
There’s another curious
aspect. In times of slump
money cranks abound and
pretty theories of monetary
reform are born. Things are
reversed in this money-inquiry.
The credit-theorists are repre-
sented by counsel at a commis-
sion and are given a chance of
cross-examining the orthodox
bankers; they will also have
plenty of elbow-room to air
their views, as will orthodox
finance have time to try to tear
a few theories into shreds.
Real purpose of the Govern-
ment in setting-up the commis-
sion is vague, unless it was
startled at the votes scored by
Social Credit at last general
election. But there is little
doubt that a lot of voters voted
Social Credit as a protest against
inflation, not as a vote for
monetary reform. These few
thousand voters had a mighty
victory if the royal commission
was born of their protest-vote.
After 600 pages of evidence
and submissions, everybody
seems agreed: there is too much
money in N.Z. Nobody takes
the blame for creating it. The
Reserve Bank, Treasury, and the
trading-banks warily avoid
blaming each other or anybody
else. Reserve Bank governor
Fussell is cagey in his evidence
of talks with Treasury and the
Government; Treasury, as a
Government department, is wary
in giving details; the trading-
banks say there has been little
co-operation between the
Government, Treasury, and the
Reserve Bank on policy, and
that they’ve been left carrying
the baby on occasions. Trading-
banks point to a clamp-down on
overdrafts when importers were
clamoring for funds to pay for
imports.
If there is any established
pattern in the inquiry it is that
somebody is trying to find the
frog who would a-wooing go,
whether his mother would let
him or no. Somebody created
a lot of extra money. Was it
Labor when it embarked on a
large housing-scheme when in
power? Was it National when
tackling a large works-
programme? Was it organised
labor in demanding wage-
increases for the same amount
of work? Somebody has dis-
regarded the admitted warnings
of Treasury and the Reserve
Bank and said, “Old Mother
Reserve Bank won’t give me the
money, so I’ll go somewhere
else.”
There are many pages of sub-
missions yet in everybody’s
brief-cases. But there is only a
resigned public interest in the
commission. It’s an academic
diagnosis by specialists of
Maoriland’s inflationary ills. A
sick man would rather be given
a cure than be given a detailed
list of the factors that made him
ill. It’s a time for straight talk
about too many private imports,
too little work for a lot of
money, too many extravagances
—but nobody likes warnings
when money is easy to come by,
even though a watered currency
doesn’t buy much. In the
meantime, the monetary com-
mission plays on with its fugue
of figures and foggy fact-
finding.
Insurance Bonus
The one-for-one bonus of
N.Z. Insurance has been long
expected and long awaited.
Registered in 1859 with an
authorised capital of £lOO,OOO,
and with a paid capital in 1862
of £ll,OOO-odd, the company
proposes to increase authorised
and paid capital to £3,000,000.
Of this, £2,700,000 represents
capitalisation of reserves. From
1913 to 1927 six capitalisations
of £150,000 each were made,
followed by one of £300,000 in
1930. It took another 25. years
before the present conversion of
£1,500,000 of reserves into
capital, but the amount was
roughly the same, on a yearly
basis, as foregoing handouts.
There’s little doubt the same
treatment can be expected in
years to come.
Tourist Income
Over the New Year period
Aussie tourists left £125,000 in
Maoriland. They came on
cruise-ships, which spent only a
little time around the coast.
Tourist Minister Halstead is
going to entice more Aussie
pounds in the next year, and
there is little doubt he’ll get
them. Although greater
emphasis is to be placed on
attracting tourists, it will be hard
to please the long-staying
traveller until hotel-owning brew-
ery interests take a longer view
and provide more chrome-
plated, central - heated pubs
around the place.
Price-control of tariffs is a
snag, as is the monotonous
Maoriland complaint of diffi-
culty in finding labor to do the
job. The Government has plans
for a £500,000 hotel at Milford
Sound, and is improving its
other tourist hotels. Private-
enterprise would be well advised
to step in and prepare for the
coming tide of tourists. The
Government, on its part, must
do something about providing
the incentive. Slackening of
control over tariffs in pubs, a
loosening of building-restrictions,
and a positive encouragement to
hotel-interests to build and
expand—all these are urgently
needed.


Tills entire pate Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
MOFFAT-VTKTTTE UNITED
Prepares monthly l»y
m.V. AGRICULTURAL lIEWS
June
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1955
THERE IS NO SUBSTITUTE FOR EXPERIENCE
AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS CALL FOR SPECIAL TREATMENT
Because of our great range of conditions and climate from the tip of
Cape York to the South of Tasmania we experience conditions not found
in any other individual country in the world. Through our Rainfall, our
Dust Problems and the Isolation of Stations we must have equipment built
to suit Australian Conditions.
The problem is a serious one.
Unfortunately, owing to our small
population, overseas factories cannot
afford to set up Research Departments
in Australia and build different models
to fit our particular needs. Produc-
tion costs are, to a large extent,
governed by volume. To set up special
features to suit the small Australian
market would invite high costs. So
we are often forced to accept an article
made to fit a world market, and not
giving us the performance or efficiency
we require. But to lower our par-
ticular costs of Primary Products we
must have efficient equipment.
To retain our world markets in
Primary Products, especially in Wool,
we must lower our costs to the limit,
offer produce of the finest quality,
and thus defeat the challenge of
Synthetic Fibres.
The Primary Producer therefore calls
on the Manufacturer to assist by pro-
viding tools especially suitable to our
conditions. Moffat-Virtue is proud to
acknowledge that it, an Australian
Company, through many years of
experience, recognises this need and
does build to the requirements of the
Australian Producer.
William Virtue arrived from Scotland
in 1889 after a thorough training in
engineering practice. As Designing
Engineer of Locomotives for the
North British Railways—stationed at
Glasgow —he had proved himself as
m
\
%
Mr. W. W. Virtue.
one of the most outstanding men in
his field. With the financial backing
of John Moffat the firm of Moffat
Virtue was launched in 1891, in a
small office in Bridge Street, Sydney.
William Virtue soon recognised the
problems of Australia. Overseas
conditions were so different....
Climate, scarcity of water, dust,
humidity, lack of service facilities
all pointed to the need to build Aus-
tralian goods to SUIT AUSTRALIAN
CONDITIONS.
So it was a grand day when William
Virtue first demonstrated the No. 1
Model Moffat - Virtue Shearing
Machine in Hill, Clark and Co., Store
in Sydney. Men in frock coats and
top hats acclaimed this unit for what
it was —an attempt to meet the Aus-
tralian problem of special design—
to speed up shearing, previously
carried out by hand-shears, and so
lower costs of production for the
Primary Producer.
Naturally the early models were
rapidly improved to meet the problems
of the increasing carrying capacity of
our sheep. The Research Department
is recognised as a very necessary part
of the organisation, and no unit goes
into production without a thorough
testing both in the factory and the
field.
In 1904 Moffat-Virtue formed the
Federal Sheep Shearing Machine Co.,
as a testing ground for its gear. The
Federal contracted not only to supply
gear but to contract for the whole job
of shearing the sheep. All told, the
Federal shore over 100,000,000 sheep
—14,000,000 in one year—to test and
develop Moffat-Virtue Shearing Gear.
This background of EXPERIENCE
has fitted Moffat-Virtue to recognise
the Australian needs and to build for
them.
Moffat-Virtue, an Australian Com-
pany, employing Australians and
producing for our market, is proud
of its progress. An invitation is
extended to all interested to inspect
the modern works at Rosebery,
Sydney, and to see for themselves the
modern manufacture of machinery
for the Man on the Land. By modern
methods, use of expensive machine
tools and practical experience they
produce the best at lowest cost.
Craftsmen At Work
Shearing Comb Production
in Australia I
A most interesting morning can be
spent at the Rosebery works of
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd., viewing the
production of the Comb used for
Shearing.
Australian Sheep produce the
finest and densest fleeces of any
country in the world. To shear
wool from Sheep in Europe, South
Africa or the Americas is a rela-
tively simple job of work in that
the fleece is so open and light to
cut. In Australia today with an
average of 91b. and top fleeces
weighing up to 161 b. or even more
we have a totally different problem.
With our sandy conditions in the
Inland —our problem of burr in
the wool in certain areas —it is
obvious that not only in Shearing
Machinery do we need special equip-
ment but the Shearer calls for special
tools to shear , with.
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd., have the steel for
Combs and Cutters specially made by
one of the largest works in Sheffield.
This company is noted for the quality
of its products. Research costing
many thousands has been undertaken
to ensure that the correct steel is
always used for a particular job.
One of their Principals travelled
through Australia and experienced the
problems actually met with in the shed
—sand, burr, “yolk” and the need to
sharpen tools —so developed steel most
suitable to combat these problems.
From this PRACTICAL EXPERI-
ENCE a Moffat-Virtue Steel was
evolved giving the correct cutting and
FEATURES OF THE
MOFFAT-VIRTUE "TRIMMER COMB"
which make it the Most Popular Comb
Used To-day
■
w
1 — Specially designed and shaped
Outside Teeth, or Riders.
To allow maximum penetration of
the wool with minimum effort and
to allow the comb to travel at the
right distance or height from the
skin of the sheep, so that the animal
will not suffer injury and the wool
will be cleanly cut.
2 Specially designed Guide or
Outside Rider Tooth.
Gives effect of bent tooth as a
guide to previous cut and helps
keep the comb in the wool. This
tooth is finely shaped by grinding.
3 Perfect Bevel Underneath
Teeth of Comb.
Enables easy penetration with
minimum effort and assists in
proper combing of wool before
cutting.
4 Fine and Smooth Comb Finish
On all surfaces permits free travel
and avoids pricks during shearing.
5 Correct Bevel on Cutting Side
of Comb.
To give proper lead to cutter and
help in penetration and combing
of wool.
6 Correct Thinning-down on
Sides of Comb Teeth.
Assisting penetration and combing
without causing prickiness or loss
of strength in teeth.
7 Alignment of Centre Teeth
with Outside Riders.
Allowing wool to be cut at the
correct moment in relation to
combing.
8 — Two Inside Teeth on Both
Sides.
Lengthened in correct relation to
outside riders and to conform to
arc of cutter travel.
9 Oil or Sand-groove Shoulders
Rounded.
Cannot damage emery during
grinding.
10 — Heel of Comb Is Bevelled.
Allows for correct grinding.
11 — Combs Are Hollow-ground.
Reduces friction and allows cor-
rect tension to be applied to correct
position for clean cutting.
12 — Heel Ground.
To ensure that point is retained
and giving maximum life to comb.
13 — Special Steel
is used in all Moffat-Virtue Combs
to give correct cutting between
comb and cutter —gives long life to
tools —less frequent grinding neces-
sary.
The Moffat-Virtue Maxicut No. 3
Comb embodies all the above
features of the famous No. 2
Trimmer Comb and in addition has
the two “Patented” sand holes drilled
in to the oil track. This assists the
escape of sand found in the wool as
well as assisting the escape of small
wool particles which might ball up
under the cutter when shearing in
adverse conditions.
Users Claim Bigger Tallies
with Less Effort!
wearing quality necessary for the
Comb and Cutter. This Steel is
exclusive to Molfat-Virtue and pre-
pared in Sheffield to our order.
That is why when you use them, you
can be sure that they are of the right
steel to cut one against the other With
minimum wear, to keep their fine
cutting edges longer.
Over years of practice the Design of
the Moffat-Virtue Trimmer Comb has
been evolved into the exclusive shape
and finish so necessary for clean,
speedy shearing. To view the Crafts-
men making this Comb by hand at the
Rosebery works really is impressive.
There are 36 separate hand operations
necessary to patiently grind the teeth
to shape, to harden the steel to correct
long wearing toughness, and to pre-
serve the grain structure in the steel
for longer-lasting clean cutting.
Moffat-Virtue Craftsmen develop tools
to suit our conditions and manu-
facture them to an accuracy beyond
the conception of the average layman.
At the final inspection each Comb
must pass a most rigid test of tough-
ness, hardness, shape, size, grain
structure and finish. It must be ready
to enter the wool. Only then is it
passed for distribution through Stores,
and Moffat - Virtue Distributors
throughout the length and breadth
of Australia.
N.S.W.; Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
SOUTHERN Q’LAND: Dalgety and Co. Ltd.,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide ; Stockowners’ Shearing
Limited, Adelaide,
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty.
Limited, Hobart and Launceston.


Wool
Supplement
Genesis of an Era
Macarthur: The Legend and the Man
By M. H. ELLIS
H'““— “""“1 N June 7, 1805, the little town of Sydney,
sitting in the valley on both sides of the
Tank Stream, was in a state of excite-
ment. The flag had gone up on South
Head to indicate that a ship was coming
in, and though ships had ceased to be the
extreme novelty they were in an earlier
day—no fewer than eight had entered in April and
three in May—it was soon clear that this was no
ordinary vessel.
The lookout scanning her from South Head no
doubt caught a glimpse of her golden-fleece figure-
head almost as soon as he spied her number going
up, and would have recognised her quickly as an
old friend, the Argo, Captain John Baden, 221 tons,
The author of this article, M. H. Ellis,
F.R. Hist. S. (“Ek Dum”), has just completed
the first full-length biography of John
Macarthur to be written. It is to be published
this month. He has had access to the whole of
the available papers of the Macarthur family,
an enormous collection of letters, printed and
other documents, account-books and flock-
records. This has enabled him to break a great
deal of new ground and add considerably to the
available knowledge about the more intriguing
episodes in Macarthur’s life, and notably about
the rebellion against Bligh, of which the book
contains the first fully circumstantial descrip-
tion in detail yet printed; also, about
Macarthur’s part in the development of the
wool-trade, with which this article deals. The
portrait of Macarthur on this page is printed
by permission of the Dixson Library Trustees.
18 guns, 26 men, American-built, whose
husbands were Messrs. Hulletts, of London. '
But the lookout would not have been aware of
the importance of her as others were aware of it
when they saw, leaning over the rail, a well-known
and somewhat contentious figure, without whom the
colony had for three and a half years been a
slightly quieter place.
Soon the word went round the town that John
Macarthur was home again; absorbed, of course,
in one of his mad schemes and accompanied by
the wherewithal in men and material to try to force
it on a doubting community.
He had, it appeared, several sheep which he
had brought from the Royal Merino-stud at Kew.
He had a wool-classer. He had orders, from Lord
Camden, for large land-grants. He had with him,
as a sort of armor against local opposition, young
Walter Davidson, a near-relative of Sir Walter
Farquhar, physician to the Prince Regent.
In fact, it was obvious that he had brought
with him all the necessary armament with which to
make himself a nuisance in a new direction. And
no doubt there were a good many who saw their
steady drinking sadly interfered with through the
arrival of him whom Governor King had named
the Perturbator. Some had wished that Colonel
Paterson, who had tried to kill him less than four
years before, had been a straighter shot.
However, within a few weeks the whole colony
was absorbed with the subject of fine-wool, mostly
on the opposition side, even the newcomer’s sup-
porters being somewhat unenthusiastic and sceptical.
The date of Macarthur’s return to New South
Wales may be reckoned as the real foundation-date
of the Merino-industry, for though there had been
sheep since the beginning, and some woolled sheep
for a decade and more, the five rams and three
ewes which he landed were the first authenticated
Merinos to be brought into the country, and his
land-grants were the first specifically granted for
the purpose of raising sheep.
The First Sheep
Quite recently an announcer on a Sydney radio-
station, handing out fabulous prizes for erudite bits
of knowledge, asked a lady: “Who first brought
sheep to Australia?” She answered, “John Mac-
arthur,” and the familiar cry of “You’re right!” hit
the microphone. But the answer, of course, was
wrong. The first sheep brought to Australia came
in the First Fleet with Phillip; some of them the
Governor’s own, some common stock. They were
landed on Bennelong Point on January 27, 1788,
and sent to graze along the slopes of what is now
the Botanical Gardens.
As animals, they would have done little credit
to a modem farm. They were more, in character,
like goats than sheep; mutton for strong men, but
hairy withal, and subject to plenty of perils amid
hungry convicts, hungrier blacks and grazing-
grounds full of precipices, tall timber and other
hazards.
Some came to a bad end early. Some were
reported struck by lightning. Some went to Parra-
matta—it is in Captain Hunter’s sketch of Parra-
matta in 1791 that the first drawing of sheep in
Australia appears. Nevertheless they were animals
which, like the goat in the song, “fed on nails jfnd
circus-bills,” and they were not wiped out, though
more than once very nearly.
In May, 1788, the sheep-population was 29.
Phillip himself owned a ewe which he had brought
in the Sirius and a lamb and three wethers. The
Government owned the colony’s only ram, 12 ewes
and a wether, and the staff had 11 of all kinds.
No further imports were made—except, per-
haps, odd sheep in vessels of which there is no
record—until November, 1791, when Philip Gidley
King, Lieutenant-Governor of Norfolk Island,
brought fresh stock from Cape Town in H.M.S.
Gorgon. Then the public stock included a ram and
50 ewes and six lambs, to which were added a small
consignment of hairy Bengals in 1792.
Phillip sailed away m the Atlantic in December,
1792, and before he left he distributed his own and
most of the Government sheep among the small
settlers he had established round Parramatta and
Prospect. His own old ewe he gave to a man named
Edward Elliott, who was settled at The Ponds,
beyond Parramatta.
Elliott seems to have been the only receiver of
a gift of sheep to keep his stock. Eight years
later he had bred a neat little flock of 116 from the
original. He can be reckoned as the first private
sheepfarmer.
Most of those who received animals from the
Governor remembered that Christmas was coming.
They hastened to sell their gifts to build up the
domestic liquor-supply, and Lt.-Govemor Grose
encouraged officers to buy, knowing that otherwise
the sheep would certainly go, in the hands of feck-
less emancipists, into the pot. This was a settlement
in which fresh meat, other than kangaroo or dog,
was rarely on the table. Richard Atkins records
that Captain Foveaux bought most of the animals,
and thus became the largest owner of the time and
the first officer to collect sheep.
Early in 1793 Grose began to give land-grants
to officers and to extend the military-grants to retir-
ing Marines; but the sheep-industry made little pro-
gress. Of domestic animals,‘the average colonist
favored the prolific goat and the pig. It was July,
1794, before there were 500 sheep in the colony,
and even then some of the farmers in the largest
way had none at all.
One of these was Lieutenant John Macarthur,
who had arrived in the Neptune on June 28, 1790.
He had become superintendent of Agriculture under
Grose, apart from being Paymaster to the New
South Wales Corps. He had had farming experience
in England’s West Country, and his wife had been
brought up on a small estate on the borders of
Cornwall and Devon.
By 1794 their farm, named Elizabeth Farm,
on the eastern outskirts of Parramatta, was cer-
tainly the best in the colony. Their house was
the best private house, their crops were the most
prolific. Their orchard was the envy of their
neighbors, and their domestic menage was the only
one, or almost the only one, in the Australian
antipodes that would have been judged normal by
the standards of English family-life among the
middle-classes—the life of an educated family-
group with an interest in civilised things, moral and
educational.
It was almost unique, also, in the fact that its
paterfamilias was virtually a teetotaller.
Macarthur’s own story, at a later stage in his
career, was that he had been the pioneer in intro-
ducing wool-sheep to the colony; that in 1793 (or
sometimes he said 1794) he had begun operations
by the purchase of 60 Bengal ewes and lambs from
an officer, imports from Calcutta, and that very soon
JOHN MACARTHUR
afterwards he had “procured from the captain
of a transport from Ireland, two Irish ewes and a
young ram.”
But it is a fact, on his own showing in a
letter mailed in September, 1794, that at that time
he owned no sheep. The first ship by which he
could have obtained Irish sheep was the Marquis
Cornwallis, which reached Port Jacksop in
(<Continued on page 19)


i
3R
V v:
*)>
n
*»
/M//
H
/
4*
1
SSr
«
Australia is a partner in
world wool promotion
At home and abroad, the Australian Wool Bureau
is actively working to increase public demand for Wool.
Formed in 1936 by the Australian woolgrowers to do this
essential job, the Australian Wool Bureau by promotion,
publicity and research keeps Australians fully aware of
wool as the world’s best fibre.
Australian woolgrowers make this possible by a tax
of 4/- a bale on their wool —a tax originally imposed
at the direct request of woolgrowers themselves. The
fund so formed is used in many ways—for bulletins,
press releases, fashion services, fashion shows, market
research, services to retailers and manufacturers, retail
staff training, advertising, display literature and show-
cards, film producing, printing and distributing publica-
tions for woolgrowers, special educational work among
children, wall charts, film strips, text books, scientific
research and many other forms of wool promotion.
Nothing is overlooked that will help to make people
more wool conscious.
Only a small part of the total amount is spent in
Australia, for most of the Australian clip is bought for
export and the Australian Wool Bureau consequently
devotes approximately 88% of the fund to the promotion
of wool in our most valuable overseas markets.
The International Wool Secretariat
In 1937, the Australian, New Zealand and South African
Wool Boards established the International Wool Secret-
ariat, with headquarters in London. This organisation
provides the spearhead of world wool promotion and
research. Since its establishment, additional branches
of the Secretariat have been formed in nine European
countries, as well as India and Japan. Wool promotion
activities in North America are directed by the Wool
Bureau Incorporated with headquarters in New York
and a branch in Los Angeles. In Canada, the Wool
Bureau Incorporated operates from Toronto.
Funds for world wool promotion and research are
provided by the woolgrowing industries of Australia,
New Zealand and South Africa. In North America,
American growers and other wool interests provide part
of the fund used in U.S.A. Through the International
Wool Secretariat and its world wide activities, wool
research maintains a steady progress, and overseas wool
publicity tells the world that there is no substitute for wool!
AUSTRALIAN WOOL BUREAU
414 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE


February, 1796, and in which his
son later journeyed to England.
At all events, the colony’s 500
sheep of July, 1794, increased
within a year to 832, of which
688 were in private hands.
Captain Henry Waterhouse,
R.N., conveying Governor
Hunter to N. S. Wales in
H.M.S. Reliance, and fresh from
the battle of the “glorious First
of June,” reported in September,
1795, that Foveaux, Palmer and
the Commissary and Macarthur
owned “several hundred.”
The following month the
captain went down with Hunter
to inspect a tract called the Cow
Pastures, beyond the Nepean,
where a convict employed by an
officer to hunt game had found
the descendants of Phillip’s wild
cattle, which had strayed from
the Botanic Gardens farm jn
Sydney in the winter of 1788.
They and their descendants had
turned up after seven years more
than 40 miles away in the midst
of fat and well-watered pastures.
Waterhouse little realised that his
journey might have some interest
to history at a later stage.
The Waterhouse Spaniard
Next year Hunter sent the
Reliance and the battered store-
ship Supply (the First Fleet
tender from which Phillip had
landed in Sydney Cove on
January 26, 1788) to the Cape of
Good Hope to secure live cattle
in consonance with the new
Governor’s instructions from the
Home Government.
It is quite clear that the Com-
missary, John Palmer, who was
with them, had no orders to buy
sheep; and Macarthur’s story,
told later, that, “as the com-
manders [of the two vessels] were
friends of mine, I requested
them to inquire if there were
any wool-bearing sheep at the
Cape,” has no foundation that
can be traced.
What happened there was
purely accidental. Waterhouse
himself told the story nine years
later, in 1806, to Sir Joseph
Banks:—
In 1797 I arrived in the Reliance
at the Cape of Good Hope, together
with the Supply, Captain Kent, and
the Britannia, transport. On board
the Reliance was the Commissary,
for the purpose of purchasing cattle
for the settlements. On board the
Britannia was Governor King [then
Lieutenant-Governor of Norfolk
Island] and Colonel Paterson [of the
N. S. Wales Corps], on their way to
England, both of which gentlemen
had been acquainted with Colonel
Gordon, who lost his life there.
Gordon was a Netherlander,
mentioned often by voyagers
who touched at the
Cape. Governor Mac-
quarie, in his youth, had
been fascinated with his
Gaelic singing a
strange accomplishment
in a Dutchman. He had
been Paterson’s com-
panion on a famous
expedition into the
Hottentot country many
years before, after
which Paterson had
taken home the first
giraffe-skin ever seen in
England.
Philip Gidley King
had from the first taken
a keen interest in the
colony’s livestock, and
throughout the succeed-
ing seven years he
might have been called
the energising centre of
the sheep-industry in
N. S. Wales.
Waterhouse continues his
tale:
Colonel Gordon had imported a
tew Spanish sheep to the Cape, which
had increased to 32. Mrs. Gordon
was then going to Europe, and for
some reason did not chuse to leave
anything that belonged to her husband
at the Cape. She gave three Spanish
ewes to Governor King and three to
Colonel Paterson. The remainder I
understood were offered to the Com-
missary, but he declined to purchase
them on the part of the Government.
They were then offered to me. As
■* could not _ afford to purchase the
whole, Captain Kent (that they might
, e }9 s t the Colony) offered to
take half. We each received thirteen,
and X took Governor King’s on
board the Reliance. Colonel Pater-
son took his to England to present
to Sir J. Sinclair.
We paid Mrs. Gordon four-pounds
apiece for them, the expenses on
delivery was about one-pound a head,
the expense for food, etc., for the
voyage was very considerable.
King’s sheep died of a local
disease before they left harbor,
but Waterhouse set out —he
believed no ship ever went to
sea before so lumbered, as he
told his father. He had on board
49-head of cattle, three mares
and 107 sheep. The voyage,
generally made in 35 to 40 days,
took 78, one of the longest and
most disagreeable passages on
record. They met the worst gale
he had ever experienced, but
“something more than I can
account for preserved us.
Possibly I may be intended to be
*hung in the room of being
drowned.” *
He arrived at Port Jackson
with 40-head of cattle, the mares
and two-thirds of the sheep,
which were “alive, but like
camelions, they lived upon air
most of the time.” Of these,
three cows, two mares and 24
sheep belonged to Waterhouse
himself. Captain Kent had a
few which he shared with
Lieutenant Braithwaite, R.N.
Waterhouse offered all his
sheep to the Governor. But
Hunter refused to buy, being
satisfied that they were in the
colony. So:
Captain Macarthur then offered me
fifteen-guineas a head, provided I
would let him have the whole. This
I declined, wishing to distribute
them. I supplied Captain Kent,
Captain Macarthur, Captain Rowley,
Mr. Marsden.
As the Spanish ewes had lambs —
none but Spanish rams running with
them—l supplied Mr. Williamson,
Mr. Moore, Government, and, in
fact, any person who wished to have
them. I never had any other but
Spanish rams in my flock, and on my
quitting the colony sold the flock to
Mr. Cox, the Paymaster, with the
exception of a few to Captain
Macarthur. Most who had Spanish
sheep were particular about them,
and I took pains to disperse them.
It should be said that the sheep
brought from the Cape were
evidently not true Merinos.
They were described by King,
who had some agricultural know-
ledge, as being half-Spanish.
Macarthur said they were of the
Spanish breed from Holland.
However, they were wooled
sheep, and it is obvious that they
soon began to put wool on to the
backs of the Bengal sheep with
which they were crossed.
It should be noted that in a
plan which Macarthur formu-
MRS. JOHN MACARTHUR
lated for the increase of livestock
in New South Wales in the spring
of 1796 he did not mention sheep.
Odd animals of woolled type
were brought from abroad within
the next few years. Captain
George Johnston, when he
reached Sydney in the Minorca
in December, 1801, brought a
Spanish ram presented to him
by his patron, the Duke of
N orthumberland.
In the meantime the sheep-
population had expanded very
considerably, but it was some
time after the arrival of the
Reliance with her fateful and
hungry cargo that any interest
was taken locally in wool. If the
Spanish-type sheep were popular
with breeders (whatever they
may have claimed at a later
stage) it was probably because
they were bigger-bodied and pro-
duced better ‘mutton, and the
rams produced a greater and
more regular sturdy get of lambs,
than the miserable Bengals.
Macarthur claimed to have
298 sheep in 1796. At the end of
1798 his wife claimed “about
1000” —though this was certainly
ELIZABETH FARM AT PARRAMATTA ABOUT 1824.
an exaggeration—but added that
“hitherto we have not been
extravagant enough to kill
mutton. Next year Mr. Mac-
ajrthur tells me we may begin.”
The total number of sheep in
the colony in September, 1796,
had been 1910, of which 1310
were owned by the military. But
there was a great expansion in
the succeeding four years. At
the midwinter muster of 1800,
numbers had increased to 6124,
of which 5499 were the property
of private individuals. The
following year individualised
returns were available, and they
show that Macarthur was not
then the largest owner of sheep.
King the Prophet
At that stage the man who
seemed to be thinking in terms
of wool was King. Macarthur,
who quarrelled with Hunter,
King’s predecessor, and others
for various reasons, good and
bad, was thinking of nothing save
leaving the country, even though
it is evident that he had formed
a reasonable basis for prosperous
living in the colony.
He had relinquished the
management of the colony’s
agricultural establishments in
February, 1796, and the pay-
mastership of the regiment three
years later. He had his farms,
but he was not the wealthy man
he was credited with being by
the envious and hostile. There is
no evidence to support the sug-
gestion that he was the leader of
the rum-traffic and had become
unduly rich on its proceeds.
It might seem, in fact, that the
charges levelled against him, both
currently and in subsequent
years, nearly all emanated from
gentry who were probably among
the great traders in spirits, which
he was not. The profligacy and
vice which surrounded some of
them he himself frequently
attacked in scathing terms.
However, in July, 1800, he
began to take steps to leave
New South Wales. And on
September 30 he wrote to
Acting-Governor King, just
installed in office, that
in consequence of my wishing to
return to England as soon as I can
obtain leave, I have determined to
dispose of my live stock of horses,
horned cattle, and sheep [and would
be] -happy to dispose of the whole,
with my farms, for the sum of four
thousand pounds, which is what the
cattle and sheep amount to at the
very lowest prices that either species
has been sold at in this settlement.
A schedule of stock and an
analysis of the total price was
enclosed. He offered 50-head of
horned cattle, 32 being females
and three English, at thb current
price of £37 a head ; 10 horses
for £650; and 600 sheep,
“several of which are Spanish,
and the most of the flock of that
breed, at £2 10s. per head.”
Most of the sheep were females.
From a commercial point of
view it was an excellent bargain,
for Elizabeth farmhouse was
thrown in and 1930 acres of land.
King wrote to the Duke of Port-
land, the Colonial Secretary,
urging that the sheep would be
a “very great acquisition for
Government, from the very great
advantage that will hereafter be
derived from the Spanish wool,
samples of which, from the flock,
are sent to the president of the
Royal Society.”
This was the first known
attempt to publicise wool as an
Australian product. And King
sent to Sir Joseph Banks, who
was president of the Royal
Society and the de facto
importer of the King’s Merinos
from Spain, thp samples from
Macarthur’s flock in a large
box, whether at Macarthur’s
request or not is doubtful.
These samples created some
furore, but nobody in New South
Wales knew anything about it.
The minds of the governing and
military classes were on other
things during 1801, except for
Governor King, who, with all
his other preoccupations, con-
tinued to be a lone voice singing
of the future of wool-production,
with an occasional burst of
support from the Rev. Samuel
Marsden. The Colonial Office,
two or three years later, had
good cause to collect King’s
correspondence on the subject
in one place.
On September 28, 1800, he
wrote that the introduction of
the Spanish sheep into the flocks
of individuals had so much
improved the fleeces that there
was promise that “a great
quantity of wool will be pro-
duced in a few years,” and “a
great benefit will arise to the
colony hereafter” in the matter
of clothing. But he described the
state of Government sheep as
“wretched,” and added “that no
efforts of mine will be wanting
to encourage and promote the
Spanish sheep.”
On August 21, 1801, he
referred again to the improve'
ments wrought through the use
of the three Spanish rams
brought out in 1797, and added
triumphantly that “from the
whole of the wool obtained last
year from the Government’s
flock and that of individuals
306 yards of blanketting” had
been made, and h proportion
thereof returned to the pioneers
for their wool:
As our progress in this necessary
manufacture must depend on the
sheep being preserved, the wool
improved, and the expense of pur-
chasing wool from individuals being
done away with as much as possible,
I beg to offer these as my reasons
why Major Foveaux’s sheep might
be purchased, if your Grace thinks
proper.
The sheep situation was highly
interesting. At the muster the
previous month the largest
owners of sheep in the colony
were Foveaux, 1250; next
William Cox (the Paymaster),
1000 ; next Macarthur, 970 ; and
then the Commissary, John
Palmer, with 650 and the
Chaplain, Marsden, and the
Quartermaster, Thomas Laycock,
340 each.
Both Foveaux (who was at’
Norfolk Island) and Macarthur
were anxious to sell their flocks
to the Government. Fate, how-
ever, intervened.
Macarthur v. Paterson
Macarthur had become
involved in a feud with the
Governor arising out of incidents
centring round the dishonesty
of a naval lieutenant who had
purloined some of the posses-
sions of a dead military officer
travelling out in the vessel Earl
Cornwallis. This sailor had
resented the very natural actions
of Macarthur, for the moment
acting-commandant during the
absence of his colonel, in retriev-
ing the stolen articles.
That the Governor had gout at
the time probably had a good
deal to do With the testiness of
everybody in a trying situation,
of which the main ingredients
were a large naval lieutenant
storming round with a clothes-
prop with which he proposed to
assault Macarthur, a stirring
legal trial, a quarrel with the
Governor, the involvement of
Colonel Paterson, who wrote a
caustic letter home criticising
King and then weakly blamed
Macarthur, his second-in-
command, for having guided his
mind and hand in the matter.
Macarthur organised a section
of the regiment to send King to
Coventry. He vowed reprisals
against the recreant Paterson.
All the normal features of
military quarrels in out-of-the-
way corners of the world were
there—recrimination, you-did-I-
didn’t, you-said-to-me, followed
by accusations of breach of con-
fidence, and eventually a
challenge from the weak and
bibulous Paterson to his senior
captain to come out and fight.
John Macarthur was, as
ever, far from loath. He hauled
his pistols, which were defective,
out of their case, pounded in
goodly charges and—a nasty
breach of good-manners in
Botany Bay, where it seemed not
to be etiquette to hit one’s
adversary in duel—perforated his
colonel’s shoulder.
Thus it was that in November,
1801, he found himself gliding
down the Harbor in the little
Hunter, his sword removed from
his side, as he set out under
arrest for London for trial on a
very vague and muddled chyge.
But before he left he had had
more than one kind of revenge on
King for sending him home ; and
the most potent and fateful trick
he had played was to buy-up the
sheep which King was so eager
to secure from Foveaux, and to
impose such terms that the
Governor now could not possibly
buy his own, even though Port-
land sanctioned the purchase.
Twenty years later, in his effort
to take to himself a monopoly
of the credit for the development
of wool in N. S. Wales, Mac-
arthur declared that Foveaux’s
2000 animals were of the
“common Cape breed,” but all
contemporary evidence, includ-
ing his own, belies this story.
He would scarcely have paid
o Continued on next page )


Q
%
The wise move
For Top Prices and
Complete Service
consign your clip
AMIF |
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE
CO. LTD.
(INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863)
wool; produce, livestock and property salesmen
MERCHANDISE AND STATION SUPPLIES
MAIN OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
MERCHANDISE DEPARTMENT: 35A YORK STREET, SYDNEY
ALL THESE
N.S.W.
BRANCHES
AT YOUR
SERVICE
{BATHURST, BREWARRINA, COOMA, COWRA, DENILIQUIN,
GARAH, GUNDAGAI, HAY, HENTY, LEETON, MOREE, MOSS
VALE, NARRANDERA, NEWCASTLE, ORANGE, SCONE,
TENTERFIELD, WAGGA WAGGA, WALGETT, WEE WAA,
YOUNG; AND AT MAITLAND AND KEMPSEY (INCORPORAT-
ING E. W. SPARKE PTY., LTD.)- SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE:
mick McCullough, coonamble. local representa-
tives: K. P. WHfTTY, BOURKE; C. R. WILKINSON,
GUNNEDAH.
A 40.33
HOMESTEADS
BJP
Sr<4^
any Plan, any Layout,
Single or Two-storey
to your design
Plan with
BOWAS
for—
★ Homesteads
★ Country
Cottages
★ Managers'
Residences
★ Overseers'
Quarters
★ Shearers and
Station
Accommoda-
tion Buildings
Bowas homesteads and country cottages
are of good appearance and are solid,
permanent structures unaffected by white
ants or dry rot.
Bowas buildings are easily erected with
the simplicity of timber frame construc-
tion —yet have the strength and durability
of steel, due to the patented Bowas steel-
wood-steel structural member of heavy
gauge steel and dressed cypress.
These members are precision cut for ease
of assembly by bolting— but all walls, both
inside and out, flooring and roofing are
nailedt on as in timber frame construction.
Plan for a Bowas better-looking, sounder,
easier-to-build homestead or cottage —our
architects will design any plan, single or
two-storey, to meet your wishes.
BOWAS CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
Manufacturers of the famous Sidney Williams Steel-Fraim Buildings
Williams Parade (Off Constitution Rd.), Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. LM5204, LM7886
In Qld.: 108 Colchester St., South Brisbane. J 4883
£2OOO for 1300 sheep, including
wethers and lambs, which were
of the common Cape breed.
There is Governor King’s
evidence; and, moreover, there
is the knowledge that Macarthur
succeeded in acquiring them,
even though Foveaux already
had agreed to sell them to the
Government, by mixing them
with his own, “from which it
would be difficult to separate
them.” So that they must have
been of something the same
standard as those in Elizabeth
Farm’s general flocks.
Whether this sudden acquisi-
tion was due to a change of heart
about, pastoral prospects, lead-
ing to a determination to remain
in the colony, or whether it was
merely a move to thwart King,
is not clear. But at the muster
taken in 1802, while he was still
on the way to'England, Mac-
arthur was shown to have
become, by purchase and
increase, by far the largest sheep-
magnate in N. S. Wales, apart
from the fact that his flock was
of about the highest all-round
quality.
In July, 1802, he owned 2750
sheep, against Cox’s 1100 and
Marsden’s 480. And these he
left behind in charge of his
capable wife, Elizabeth, as he
sailed northwards on his adven-
turous voyage, taking with him
his seven-year-old son John,
who was never to return to his
native land, but was to become
the first Australian to be called
to the Bar, and was himself to
play an appreciable part in the
foundation of the wool-industry.
The voyage to England that
year through the monsoon was
“no joyride.” The Hunter,
barque, 300 tons, ran into a
hurricane in the Moluccas, and
somehow tottered into Amboyna.
She had been bound for Calcutta,
where the Viceroy had been
asked by King to find passage
to London for his wrathful
captive.
But from Amboyna the Hunter
could not sail. It was one of
those curious turns of fate which
seemed to direct events in
Macarthur’s favor. For while
he waited in Amboyna for a
passage he came to know the
British Resident, young Sir
Robert Farquhar, who was in
dire trouble with the East India
Company through having made
an attack on a Dutch fort.
Giving Sir Robert good advice
and comfort, Macarthur received
in return the friendship of the
Prince Regent’s physician, the
distressed satrap’s uncle, Sir
Walter, and of a firm Of bankers
who stood by his family in its
needs (and by the colony of New
South Wales) for a couple of
generatiens.
The Farm Fleeces
It was in the cold November
of 1802 that he reached England,
a year after sailing, to find the
whole country torn with political
war, and preparing once more to
encounter Napoleon on the cliffs
of Dover.
Full of fight, Macarthur soon
had King’s nebulous charges
against him shelved, not without
some censure. It is not true, as
usually taught, that the papers
containing the charges against
him were lost. He delivered
them and faced the accusations
fairly, with the result that every-
body concerned on both sides
was rapped smartly over the
knuckles. He himself was at
first remanded back to Sydney
for trial there.
He was, however, relieved
from his arrest, since “His Royal
Highness conceives that
Governor King will not be
desirous of bringing articles of
complaint against Captain Mac-
arthur before a-military tribunal”
on his return to Botany Bay.
It seemed for the moment
that all that was to issue from
his compulsory voyage to
England would be two years’
wasted time, considerable
expense and a weakening of his
unstable health, always uncertain
since rheumatic gout had seized
him in its grip during his first
voyage in 1790.
But now fortune played
another card. The war had dis-
rupted the supply of Spanish
wool, and British manufacturers
were at a stage where wool was
badly needed. They were at their
wits’ ends for a source of supply.
They seized on Macarthur.
Was he the man whose fleeces
had been sent to Sir Joseph
Banks by Governor King? He
was. Had he any more samples
with him? He had—a box of
them somewhere, along with the
skins of swans and other such
trifles that every voyager carried
from the antipodes.
Within a matter of weeks it
became obvious that, in his fury,
King had done his adversary—
and the colony of New South
Wales the greatest service
possible.
There was some excitement
among those who had seen the
samples King had sent home with
Governor Hunter to persuade the
Government to buy the Mac-
arthur flocks. And while the
owner of the flocks had been
wandering the seas water had still
been running under the bridge.
King’s letters about the
improvement of wool had, in any
case, interested the home
authorities. While Macarthur
was on the high seas, Hobart,
who a few days before succeeded
the Duke of Portland as Colonial
Secretary, wrote to King on
August 29, 1802:
The exertions which have been
made by certain of the settlers to
improve the growth of wool are
highly creditable to the individuals
and vcannot be too much encouraged
with a view to the future exporta-
tion of the finest quality of that
article for the market of this coun-
try, rather than for the manufacture
of it in the manufactories of the
colony, which should be confined to
the coarser kind of cloth.
Governor Hunter, another
enemy of Macarthur, had written
several months earlier:
The sheep in that country produce
good wool. Might not the raw
material be purchased there and sent
home to be manufactured for the
use of the convicts?
Meanwhile, the staplers had
assessed the quality of the Eliza-
beth Farm fleeces sent home to
Banks, their opinions being
carried on their way to Sydney
by the mordant Captain Colnett,
R.N., of H.M.S. Glatton. There
had been eight fleeces; and King
was able to publish the details in
the first issue of the first news-
paper ever printed in Australia,
in March, 1803.
The first fleece, “from a ewe
from the Cape of Good Hope,
said to be of the Spanish breed,”
was reported to be a true
Spanish-breed fleece, though “a
little hairy on the flank, and a
small matter in the forehead ; the
wool very good, worth when
scoured, 4s. a pound, if not
more” —King, in N. S. Wales,
was offering twopence. The
second, cut from a yearling ram
out of this ewe, was “nearly as
good as the King’s wool at Oat-
lands ; quite free from hair, and
of an excellent quality, worth ss.
a pound.” It was added that
“could the colony produce such
kind of wools, it would be a
great acquisition to our manu-
factory in England.” The
remainder of the samples had
few virtues —mostly bricklayers’
hair.
However, the first two were
sufficient to send the staplers
clamoring to Macarthur when
he arrived: “They sought me
out,” and he was not difficult to
find, for, despite the libels of
the colony which assessed him
socially as an ex-staymaker’s
apprentice—a tale seemingly
without the slightest foundation
—he was well connected in
London, with Nelson’s secretary
and biographer-to-be, his name-
sake, for a cousin, and influential
friends —the Farquhars, the
Indian family of Hallidays and
others —who soon vouched for
him, though he was perfectly
capable of vouching for himself.
Educated, well-read, forceful


FOB SALE
8T
SpitWtc Mnttion*
AT
Garraway’s Coffee House ,
CHANGE-ALLEY, CORNHIIL,
ON
FRIDAY, August 17, 1821,
AT ONE PRECISELY,
THE FOLLOWING GOODS, VIZ ;
jnnriri.rw^*
329 Bales New South Wales
Wool, per Shipley, Capt.
Monckief, from said Co-
lony.
71 Bags Spanish Wool.
20 Bales Cape Wool.
10 Bales German Wool.
The first sale catalogue of Australian wool
« :■
m
/////,!/
WK
Ff, jgs
.4
7, /
0J
Highly skilled technical officers
specially trained in all aspects of finance
will gladly discuss the problems
affecting your business
connected with the wool industry
between
bidding
& shipping
the \Adelaide ’
operates
swiftly
in the
interests &
service of
wool buyers
& brokers
'///''■ / v/ ''''WA/ /////#
<//wb:?y
''■'mm:";'
V/f'M.v,
m /.
////.?.'•
I
’"i,;
MBS
J//3
fell
m
wttiM*
f/fo
sw/m/i/A
///,,
’ N.. Xfc# A
04
■
CONSULT OUR
WOOL MANAGERS
AT ADELAIDE,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE OR PERTH
OFFICES
(Tire Bank af AMaitie
"INCORPORATED IN 1865 IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA WITH LIMITED LIABILITY"
ALAN A. WEST GENERAL MANAGER
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH and LONDON
and resourceful, he was exactly
the man for the job in hand, and
never one to allow lack of
imagination or want of energy
to stand in the way of realisa-
tion of a vision. And at this
stage he certainly acquired a
vision which he pursued for the
rest of his life.
The Triumphant Return
Macarthur’s vision was, indeed,
a large one. As it was described
in the next two or three years in
England and in the colony, it
went far beyond the mere petty
grasping of a petty grazier-
politician working for his own
gain, as he was painted by his
enemies, especially those in the
colony whose sons and genera-
tions were to be made wealthy
on a foundation of his
construction.
His ideas were not quite
crystallised yet, but he was quick
to assume and build round him-
self the legend which would give
him authority as the embodi-
ment of the theory that wool
could be turned into something
which would decide the future
of his adopted country ; which
would provide the solution
of the problems which had begun
to press upon the English manu-
facturer with the growth of popu-
lation and the development of
steam labor-saving machinery.
He was from the first a con-
firmed optimist. He saw “no
reason to fear that the wool of
this country may [not] with care
and judicious management be
placed on an equality with the
very best that is grown in Spain.”
He was emphatic about the fact
that the improvement of Aus-
tralian wool was coming from
the Spanish sheep (of which he
now had 60-head among his
flocks), and not from the climate,
as many New South Wales
farmers ignorantly believed.
He held that in seven years to
come “the best judge would be
unable to discover any material
difference between the perfect
and the mixed breed.” And,
allowing that his calculation
(confirmed by Marsden) was
correct —that a flock of sheep
would double itself within two
years and their produce lamb at
18-months-old —he was prepared
to estimate that within 20 years
the present stock might increase
to 5,000,000 and be cutting 2£lb.
of wool.
They would then be producing
almost twice as much wool as
England was purchasing from
Spain at an annual expense of
£1,800,000. Then “should Great
Britain still require a much
larger supply, sheep can be
equally multiplied to any extent
in the immeasurable forest which
surrounds us.”
Indeed, he found it “difficult
for the mind to embrace all the
advantages which must flow
from the successful progression
of this great national object.”
It appeared to him that
here was the key to the puzzle
which, arising out of new tech-
niques, was alarming the English
textile - manufacturers. These
had already resulted in vast
expansions of the cotton-industry
and tremendous reductions in
prices of cotton-goods.
The same machinery that dealt
with cotton, he declared, could
deal with wool in every branch.
And the problem of the wool-
trade did not lie in the limits of
potential markets; it lay in the
limited supply of fleeces. So that,
if the production of fleeces could
be extended, and the fleeces
could be woven by the new
steam-plants to sell at fantastic
cheapness, the cry that thousands
of laborers would go hungry if
steam was applied to the wool-
trade had no meaning. “If we
can by our united efforts (as
assuredly we can) raise in this
colony any quantity of fine wool”
all the force of the argument
about labor would be “at once
demolished.”
He was perfectly sure that,
“whatever the demand may be
for that commodity, we certainly
may supply it,” and that
The universal use of machinery
might then be safely sanctioned, and
the British manufacturers would be
enabled so to reduce the price of
woollen cloths, as would secure
throughout the world the most com-
plete monopoly that any people ever
possessed. We should also parti-
cipate in the profits of this gainful
trade and enjoy the pleasing consola-
tion that our labors were contribut-
ing to the F support and prosperity of
that parent country to whom our
debt of gratitude can never be paid.
Moreover, “the most eminent
manufacturers and merchants
concerned in the woollen trade”
all concurred in the opinion that
“the worst specimens of the
mixed breed in New South Wales
would be valuable,” and that the
wool of the finest kind so far
seen from New South Wales was
“equal to the very best we ever
receive from Spain.”
Macarthur advocated, among
other measures, the formation of
a large chartered company in
England to develop the sheep-
raising industry. His path in the
matter seemed decided for him
from the beginning. Even deadly
enemies came forward to support
his views —one of them Captain
Hunter, R.N., no less.
The committee of the Privy
Council, too, heard him with
respect, and, despite the opposi-
tion of Sir Joseph Banks, he was
presently ready to sail triumphant
to New South Wales in the
Argo.
The Royal stud at Kew had
sold him more rams and the
ewes, the best of them a four-
tooth ram—at 27 guineas— cut-
ting 71b. 2oz. of wool. And,
though Banks pointed out that
an old Act of Parliament stood
in the way of exporting sheep
from the country, Macarthur
succeeded in getting these out on
a Treasury warrant.
It mattered not that Banks was
also against his having land
except in the distant interior, and
that King, eager to destroy an
enemy, poured cold water on the
plan, and now told the Colonial
Office that only about an eighth
of the colony’s sheep grew wool
“of different gradations.” Before
long Macarthur’s friend Captain
Edward Abbott, in England, was
writing home to Botany Bay of
the Perturbator’s progress:
His voyage to England has been a
lucky thing for himself and family,
for there is no doubt he will make a
large fortune for himself and he is
the means that will benefit this
Colony by his representations he
has been fortunate enough to engage
not only the attention of the princi-
pal noblemen and gentlemen in his
favor, but has satisfied the majority
of the wool staplers in his favor also
who have all petitioned the
Government.
So, instead of being cashiered
as the result of having nearly
killed his commanding officer,
instead of sneaking back to the
colony in disgrace, John Mac-
arthur came home on June 7,
1805, in the Argo, with the
golden-fleece shining on her
prow, the Royal Merinos —the
first pure sheep of the breed —
penned in her Well-deck, pots of
new plants and herbs and grasses
all round him, letters of marque
as a privateer and an official
{Continued on next page )


FARMERS & GRAZIERS'
Co-operative Grain, Insurance and
Agency Company Limited
Leading Wool, Stock and Produce Brokers
Head Office: SYDNEY
and at
London, Albury, Armidale, Braidwood, Cowra, Crookwell, Dubbo, Goulbum,
Griffith, Guijnedah, Inverell, Moree, Narrabri, Newcastle, Orange, Parkes,
Tamworth, Taralga, Temora, Wagga Wagga.
Co-operation with the Farmers and Graziers is a
money-saving proposition.
Cash Bonuses are paid to Consignors, whether
Shareholders or not.
THE
FARMERS & GRAZIERS'
Co-operative Grain, Insurance and
Agency Company Limited
' ■*" * » #
Licensed Auctioneers, Stock and Station Agents
m
H
ol‘ s
e fi
i€
D ii
rtf
tiny
0
s^ s
c r
re
56
M
When you buy
a garment made of genuine
Soltine, you really have top
value plus comfort, smartness and
exceptionally long life. You may
have to shop around a little ,
because the demand for Soltine
still exceeds the supply.
SOLTINB
AUSTRALIA'S FINEST SUITING
■" WS39-16— ■'
dispatch in his wallet informing
King, his adversary, that “for
the pains which had been taken
by the said John Macarthur,
Esquire, in increasing and
improving the breed of sheep in
New South Wales, it would be
expedient to promote his views”
by the grant of not less than
5000 acres of land, with the use
of 30 convicts to work the grand
estate.
King was told that “His
Majesty’s Government takes a
peculiar interest in forwarding
the objects of this letter.” And
Walter Davidson, Farquhar’s
relation, who had come with
him, was to have 2000 acres con-
tiguous to Macarthur’s lands,
and sufficient convict-servants
and some cattle, to be paid for
from the returns of the property.
King knew when he was
beaten. He hauled up the white
flag. Despite the execration
which he had heaped on Mac-
arthur’s head, he now discovered
that the motives behind his pro-
posals were “of so honorable and
public-spirited a nature that I
offered him my hand, which he
readily accepted.” The Governor
promised “every support and
every assistance I could afford
him within the bounds of
propriety.” He even asked the
man whose career two ye,ars
before he had been determined
to destroy to stay with him at
Government House.
Camden Park is Founded
While Macarthur had been
away for his three years in Eng-
land all had gone well both in
his own and the colony’s
business.
The Irish crisis, which had
kept the place in arms for four
years with assembly-points
arranged and alarm-guns primed,
had disappeared with the Vinegar
Hill battle in March, 1804. It
had been touch-and-go for the
Macarthur properties, for, on the
fateful Sunday, the first place the
rebels had raided had been the
Macarthur grass-farm at Seven
Hills, and they planned to make
a beacon of Elizabeth Farm to
draw thither the military (who
had a special weakness for his
family), so that the town might
be raided without undue
interference.
No doubt, had the plan
succeeded, it would have been
the end of the Spanish-sheep
stud there. The flock would all
have become mutton. But the
plan was foiled; Elizabeth
Macarthur had been conveyed
down the Parramatta River,
while King and George
Johnston marched to the rescue.
The Lord of Elizabeth Farm
returned to find all safe. The
number of sheep in the colony
had increased from 6000-odd on
June 30, 1800 (a month before
he had offered to sell his farms
and stock to the Government),
to 20,450 at the midwinter muster
in 1805.
King was in every way accom-
modating. He gave him convict
servants, allowed him to pick the
eyes out of the ewe-flocks in the
Government herds. He fell in
with a plan under which a survey
should be made of the colony’s
wool-sheep, with the help of
Edward Wood, the wool-expert
who had come out in the Argo,
and the Reverend Samuel
Marsden —a Survey which proved
triumphantly the immense
superiority of the Macarthur
flocks.
His Excellency balked when
Macarthur and Davidson
selected as the area in which they
would mark out their lands the
rich, well-watered Cow Pasture
country, with its lagoons and
parklike grasslands beyond the
Nepean, where the wild cattle
grazed. (Waterhouse had called
the attention of the innovator to
it). But Macarthur was
insistent that this was the only
piece of country suitable for his
sheep.
In September he and Davidson
went down and bivouacked on
the spot amid all its lushness,
and presently King yielded to the
point of allowing their 7000
acres to be marked-out by
Meehan, the surveyor, along a
frontage to the Nepean, subject
to the approval of the British
Government, and on condition
that for the present no buildings
worth more than £lOOO should
be erected there.
Straightway, Macarthur and
his partner built a rude hut at
Benkennie Lagoon, near Men-
angle, and before the year was
out Camden County and Camden
Park had been named, not
without causing some heart-
burning.
Indeed, after the great floods
of the following March, which
devastated the Hawkesbury flats
and swept them almost bare of
stock and grain, there was strong
feeling against the prophet of
wool, who was to have his new
estates beyond the Nepean
guarded from invasion by the
penal regulations, and who
refused to kill his Spanish sheep
to fill empty stomachs, which
became emptier as it became
evident that the lambing-season
would be a barren affair that
winter.
Bligh, arriving early in August,
1806, to take over from King,
must have found public indigna-
tion running very strongly. The
gossips were only too ready to
tell him, as they told one of his
captains, how the idea of produc-
ing fine-wool in quantities in
New South Wales was an idle
dream; how the sheep on an
average would not cut fleeces
of more than half a pound ; and
how the visionary prospect held
out by the gentleman at Parra-
matta could never be fulfilled ;
how, indeed, he was “merely a
great politician and a man
sensible of his own interest.”
Even young Mr. John Blax-
land, that great English farmer,
who was, at the moment, more
concerned with the chances of
founding a distillery than with
grazing, pointed out that but a
little while ago the new prophet
had been prepared to sell-out
entirely for a trivial sum. He
pledged his word as the
descendant of Saxon thanes that
during his own lifetime —and it
seemed he still had about 50
years to go—“no wool of con-
sequence would be sent to
England” from New South
Wales.
Bligh, no doubt, imbibed this
with relish ; for he seems to have
been a man ready to imbibe
whatever would give him an
excuse to deny his fellow-men
anything they wanted, unless they
happened to be his intimates.
A large helping of the ex-
convictry and their associates,
greatly daring, repudiated the
address which the new occupant
of Camden had signed on
behalf of the free settlers,
observing that “had we deputed
anyone, John Macarthur would
not have been chosen by us,
considering him as an unfit
person to step forward upon
such an occasion, as we chiefly
attribute the rise in the price of
mutton to his withholding the
large flock of wethers he now
has, to make such price as he
may choose to demand.”
The bushrangers, more prac-
tical, raided his Seven Hills folds,
and the population rejoiced with
those of them not caught for
hanging when one of the Mac-
arthur shepherds shot a fellow-
shepherd in a night defensive
against supposed marauders. Iti
fact, during this period, as
statistics show, Macarthur must
have sacrificed some stock, but
he got little credit or thanks
for it.
Macarthur Beats Bligh
It was early in October that
the product of this campaign
began to show itself, when Bligh
set out for the Cow Pastures,
accompanied by that impartial
adviser, the Rev. Samuel Mars-
den, who, since Macarthur’s
return, had been eagerly doing
his best to put a spoke in his
wheel and to persuade official
circles that improvements in the
local stock were not due to
breed but to climate.
Marsden held that the right
policy was to breed primarily
for beauty of make, strength of
constitution and weight of
carcass, and for wool last. He
was, however, not very sincere
in the matter. He was merely
aiming to replace his rival as
the prophet of the fleece, and,
while decrying what was being
done with the Spanish Merinos
—they were delicate beside his
crosses with the Southdown, it
seemed —was secretly getting
ready for the campaign he was
to wage in London next year
when he would appear before
Royalty clad in cloth woven
from his own flock.
That basis of preparation
would be built on a little later
when the rev, gentleman pre-
pared a mysterious cargo of
fleece to be sent off to London,
in 1810, with the exclamation:
“This will be the beginning of
the commerce of the new
world.” For the present, what-
ever advice he and others gave
was reflected in the encounter
of Bligh with Macarthur at
Parramatta, when Bligh
allegedly shouted:
“What have I to do with your
sheep, sir? What have Ito do
with your cattle?.... I have
heard of your concerns, sir. You
have got 5000 acres of land, sir,
in the finest situation in the


Generations of experience
<s®
Photo by Olive Longmore. Courtesy E. A. Partridge.
Trained to his task, the sheepdog does his work with
the intelligence and faithfulness of his breed. Sheep men
regard the choice of a dog as a matter of real importance
and naturally look for those inbred characteristics which
reveal skill and interest.
Throughout the grazing country, and in the wool and meat
markets of the world, recognition is freely given to A.N.Z.
Bank’s special knowledge and skill in the affairs of the
sheep industry.
Since 1835 succeeding generations of Bank officers have
gathered the experience, which today A.N.Z. Bank uses
to serve the individual requirements of each customer.
That is why so many experienced graziers bank with A.N.Z.
Bank and encourage their sons to do so too.
A LARGE PHOTOGRAPH of the Sheepdog suitable for
framing Is available free on request. Simply send your
name and address In envelope marked “Australian Sheep -
dog,” c/o Box 2579 W, G.P.0., Melbourne.
A*N*Z
* *■ *
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
t
Over 800 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand,
in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and in London.
Agents throughout the World
ANZ.6I.IBO<
V
RIVER IN A
wj®
■fr
\
at the
“Vm tipping that this
years results will he
even better than
those obtained in
previous Showsl”
Over 90% of prizewinners at the
1953 and 1954 Sheep Shows were
conditioned on meals prepared
by Riverina Stock Feeds Pty. Ltd.
Invitation: Drop in and pass the time of day on
our stand at the Sheep Show and Sales. Make it
a place to meet your friends.
R I VE RI N A
Stud Meats & Sheep Nuts
Manufactured by Riverina Stock Feeds Pty. Ltd.,
10 Martin Place, Sydney. 8L3178. And at Narrandera.
country, but by God you shan’t
keep it!”
The Governor behaved that
day with almost insane rage, if
his victim can be believed. He
damned the Privy Council and
the Secretary of State. He
accused his host of “false repre-
sentations regarding your wool.”
He positively made poor Gover-
nor King weep into his break-
fast.
And then he had jogged off
down to the Cow Pastures, with
Mr. Marsden as his Sancho
Panza, and had returned no whit
better-tempered, after having
been caught by a flood on the
wrong side of the Nepean and
been ferried over by aborigines.
Thus one of the pretexts was
built for the events of the
Glorious Twenty - sixth of
January, 1808, when the military
inhabitants of Sydney, to tuck
of drum, ousted Bligh in a revo-
lution which was bloodless, and
placed on his throne the un-
stable Johnston, with Macarthur
as his administrator.
There were certainly more
causes than rum behind that
rebellion —indeed, rum appears
to have had very little to do
with it. But, whatever the cause,
there was no doubt about the
consequences. The condition of
the settlements became more
wretched than since Hunter’s
day, though the wool-industry
did not exactly languish. Sheep
continued to multiply without
providing any peace of mind for
the man who had most faith in
their ability to become the
staple of Australian progress.
The Years of Exile
In February and March,
1809, the Admiral Gambier was
waiting to take Macarthur —a
ci-devant “Colonial Secretary”
in eclipse, who, so far from
fostering the rum-traffic during
his recent short reign had
incurred the resentment of all
by clamping down on it —to
London to plead his case and
confound the tyrant.
Once more he was seeking to
sell most of his flocks, once more
in vain. He advertised again and
again, but without response. It
would have been an optimist
who had been willing to buy
anything in N. S. Wales at that
particular moment.
He sailed away still in pos-
session of his estates and his
cattle and sheep. He had not
forgotten wool at any point in
the crisis through which the
colony had passed.
Even when he had sent off
his eldest son, 19-years-old
Edward, in his 120-ton whaler
Dart, to act as the ambassador
of rebellion in England in April,
1808, he had packed wool into
casks and sent it with him. It
arrived wet and matted; but
Edward had some chance to give
the matter attention in London
before he rushed to join the
Army of Spain and Portugal—
like every other English
youngster in the days after
Cintra, “burning to be there” —
thus becoming the first volunteer
from Australia for active-service
in war who can be traced.
Now, however, Macarthur’s
plans had changed somewhat.
He was eager—he had reached
middle-age— to settle-down. At
first he had thought of cleaning-
up his affairs in London and
returning by the next ship. But
the news which reached him
early in his sojourn—while he
and Johnston tried to bring
Bligh to book and the Colonial
Office procrastinated—gradually
led him back to his determina-
tion to return permanently to
England.
This was strengthened by the
fact that his children were grow-
ing up. His son John was show-
ing brilliance at Glasgow Uni-
versity. His son Edward was in
the 39th Regiment in the Medi-
terranean ; his two youngest sons
had come with him in the
Admiral Gambier James,
polite, equable and serious, the
image of his mother ; William,
the nine-year-old who was hap-
pier atop of a mast or sliding
down the rigging than anywhere
else.
As the boys were popped into
the private school of the erudite
Dr. Lindsay they might have
been heard chattering in French
which had been taught them by
the blue-blooded soldier of the
New South Wales Corps, Huon
de Kerilliau, relative of the
Bishop of St. Pol. They were
all Europeans to the core. And
as their parent heard of the
humane measures which Gover-
nor Macquarie had introduced
to the colony in the treatment of
the emancipists and convictry,
the opinion grew in him that
his life in N. S. Wales was over.
Misfortune now seemed to hit
him from every side at once—
one ship wrecked, a venture in
goods in China with his nephew
was disastrous, another ship
destroyed amid the savages of
New Zealand. His emancipist
enemies were in the ascendant in
New South Wales. Bligh was
A Macarthur Bookplate
undestroyed in England. The
contest at the court-martial of
Johnston in June, 1811, was, so
to speak, a draw.
Always the dreamer, he had
visions of a large successful
shipment of trade, with profits
of the order that had made men
rich in 1800-5, when £lOO spent
on tobacco in Rio used to yield
an enterprising convict on his
way to retribution £4OOO.
He would load a ship and
send her to Port Jackson in
charge of Hannibal, his nephew,
now married to that kind,
pleasant girl Maria, daughter of
poor old Governor King, who
had departed this life in 1808 in
a final agony of gout and
disappointment.
The ship would call at Madeira
and load wine to top-off their
prosperity. His wife would come
to England. They would leave
the N. S. Wales estate in charge
of Hannibal —that is, if they
could be assured of an income
of £l6OO a year to keep them-
selves above the breadline and
educate their children.
He was so convinced that this
should be his future that he even
chose a fine large house to buy
in the south of England, and
expected every ship—they were
at long intervals; once there was
none for 22 months —to bring
his wife to him. But she did
not come.
His trading-venture failed, for
the grand old days of great
profits were gone for ever in
Sydney Cove. The muslins and
the cottons faced a glutted
market, the Madeira would not
sell at a payable price. His
debts pressed him in England. If
it had not been for their pastoral
income he could not have sur-
vived. Sometimes, to meet their
expenses, they lived down to
mutton-chop-and-bread level
when the boys were with him.
It seemed that circumstances
would drive him home, but
when he had come to that con-
clusion —at a time when he had
been away over three years—he
suddenly discovered the orders
which had been sent with Mac-
quarie to have him arrested, if
charges should be laid against
him, and tried for his part in the
rebellion before the Criminal
Court.
There was little chance that
Macquarie would carry out this
order unless pressed to it. He
had, indeed, visited Elizabeth
Macarthur before anybody else
when he had landed. She and
her children had become family
friends at Government House.
He had made her new land-
grants ; had supported her in
every way during the dreary
years when she managed the
estates ; when she lived some-
times in the wretched hut by the
Benkennie Lagoon on the edge
of the Never Never, having her
stock stolen by bushrangers, her
shepherds murdered by maraud-
ing blacks.
Macarthur, however, was
deadly afraid to run the risk of
returning home. And this was
part of the plan of Fate
apparently, for remaining in
England placed him in a special
position of advantage as to the
development of wool.
Forming the Market
It was no matter that he had
developed a deadly form of
gout, that for months on end
he was virtually an invalid, his
hands so distorted and pain-
wracked that he could scarcely
write, his mind dizzy, his diet
limited at times to water and
vegetables. He never at any time
forgot wool. No letter failed to
mention it, to urge his managers
in N. S. Wales to higher things,
to flock-improvement, to better
packing.
All the time he studied the
market; he studied sheep; he
studied his own successes and
failures. And, with the con-
stant interchange of experience
between the farm and market,
there was quickly developing a
technique along with an expan-
sion of the trade. It was still
an experimental trade —the first
2501 b. had been sent from N. S.
Wales early in 1806. Once or
twice a year ships brought small
consignments to London from
1810 onwards.
From 1812 the interest in New
South Wales was so marked that
the “Sydney Gazette” referred
to the London sales; to the
prices achieved of up to ss. a
pound; to the competition
which had developed at the end
of the year for the one man in
the colony who could class a
clip, George Dowling. By 1813
they were sending from the
flocks of Camden and Elizabeth
Farm as much as 25 to 30 bales
in a ship.
It was sent under all sorts of
conditions.
Once, in May, 1814, as the
cargo lay in the hold of the
James Hay, next to the Three
Bees, that monster vessel caught
fire, with guns loaded, and began
to plant shot round the tiny
town, so that Government
House was evacuated and Cap-
tain Piper found a fiery ball
making smoke upon his writing-
table. Pirates cut the James
Hay’s cables under cover of the
confusion and tried to leave the
Harbor —Macarthur wool and
all.
Once, too, a cargo was lost
at sea.
Sometimes there was a pain-
tinged snarl from London com-
plaining that the shipments were
half dirt and rubbish, or about
the greater prices that that
treacherous priest, Sam Mars-
den, claimed to be getting for
most inferior product. But be-
hind all was progress, a striving
towards a definite goal which
was as yet more evident at the
production-end than in London.
About the raising of sheep on
the Macarthur estates there had
from the first been a fixed
policy, one difficult to maintain
at times in the face of the need
for money.
But for two decades the
master who framed that policy
never allowed deviation from it.
Its basis was the breeding, not
of quantity, but of quality.
Numbers were decided by the
availability of first-class rams.
Each season it was sought to
bring the flocks nearer to
standards of purity, to put more
wool on backs, to make flesh
subservient to fleece, even be-
fore there was steady profit in
the game.
It was not easy, what with
the blacks and the bushrangers,
and also the pirate tups from
(Continued on next page)


v':';
;
rsa*
fc-s - s-'r^lts.jft"^
IT'S MORE THAN A TRADE MARK
It’s well over 90 years ago since
the firm of Wilcox Mofflin
Limited was founded and com-
menced serving the Pastoral
Industry. But it was not until the
early ’thirties that the S.O.S.
(Stock Owners’ Service) Depart-
ment was inaugurated to assist
the grazier in his war against
disease and parasites in sheep.
Since that time constant research
into the numerous problems
affecting the health and produc-
tivity of stock has been relent-
lessly carried on. A range of
stock remedies and instruments
has been produced that are
sought by stock owners through-
out the world. And they all carry
that distinctive picture of the
leaping lamb illustrated above.
The SOS Trade Mark we call it—
but over the years it has come to
mean more than that to graziers.
It is a symbol of pastoral service
—a guarantee that the product
that bears it is true to label.
Watch for it—you’ll recognise it
on the products that best provide
the answer to your stock
problems.
WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
SYDNEY
M
m
mm
SOS. 40
other farms which found their
way to pure ewes and conta-
minated the blood. But it was
done.
There was order and method.
From 1813 onwards, in the large
book which Macarthur had used
as an account-book when he had
been paymaster of the N. S.
Wales Corps, his faithful wife
and her deputies recorded the
detailed statistics year by year,
season by season.
There was the central pure
stud-flock kept close under the
watchful eye of headquarters at
Elizabeth Farm—loo Spanish
ewes of the pure breed. Out at
Camden the rest were divided
into flocks of 300 each for
breeding, with five rams to the
B ' flock was the care
of its shepherd, encouraged by a
ration and comforts such as few
owners supplied, spurred to good
m ? m T CS wha ! had
ntlfiJ- npnnfi? wf* 1 ? 1 ° StS i l °
There were manvThinos
that could happen to a sheep fn
pristine Australia that the price
of life was eternal vigilance
with a vengeance—sneaking
dingos, sneaking outlaws sud-
den bushfires, marauding blacks
stakes in the* ground, grass-seed
in the wool, footrot on the flats
sudden floods, death on the
Upper Camden precipices, over
which the stirring of the wind,
the hoot of a mopoke might
send a flock hurtling to
destruction.
Each night the flocks were
taken to fold and watched
through the hours of darkness
against myall, dingo and white
marauder. The losses were re-
markably small, and they are
known, for the fate of every
flock was carefully recorded.
In winter there was the lamb-
ing. Sometimes 1500 new lives
had to be preserved in the cold of
July amid the rough surround-
ings and predatory life of the
border. In the great drouSit of
1813-16 hundreds of animals
died. But each year there was
an improvement in overall
quality, a gradual increase in
numbers which built the flocks
to round 5500 at their peak in
the years of their owner’s exile,
which did not end till 1817,
when the Macarthur family in
London, after over eight years
away, sailed in the Lord Eldon
to join the-Macarthur family at
Parramatta. '
Ry that time the wool-industry
wa s reaching out beyond the
experimental stage. In 1816 no
less than 73,1711 b. of Australian
W ool passed through the English
Customs, though there was a
f a fl a fter that as a result of the
drought.
TBe Exlle ’ s Return
It was a new country to which
the Macarthurs returned. The
populatl u on s>f the colony had
grown threefold. The dilapidated
convlct - cam P had become a city
<pa^aces -”
Green way was there building,
Macquarie improving. Church-
spires were rising above Parra-
matta and Windsor, though they
were not finished yet. There
™ ere turnpike roads and clear-
*ngs > and the night heard the
tock-tock of the procession of
wine-carts which for many a
year was a feature of the traffic
Parramatta-road.
John Macarthur and his sons
James and William came home
with the agricultural trophies of
a long sojourn in France and
Switzerland, which they had
begun amid the excitements of
the Hundred Days. And they
were all themselves changed,
Elizabeth Macarthur was
passing middle . agc xhe re .
turned exile was weary and
physically a wreck, more and
mor fi e ia paia ’. and moI 5
confined to . hls bed, more and
ra ° re erradc and quarrelsome
and out of tune with the new
w ° rld in which he found him ‘
se
He was > however, still
obsessed with sheep. They had
become his life. His plans
savored of megalomania, but
tde y were proving attractive to
Ib e Home Government and to
Commissioner Bigge, the former
Chief Justice of Trinidad, who
appeared in 1819 to investigate
the colony, and who proved fer-
tile soil for anybody who was
willing to advocate estates upon
a B ra nd scale and approximate
in met hod to the great West
Indian sugar-estates.
Bigge proved most receptive
to schemes revolving round the
idea of a landed aristocracy
which would discipline its con-
victs through stomachs filled
according to the state of the
owner’s virtue and industry.
He sailed home in 1821. He
had become a family friend of
the Macarthur menage. In
respect of the colony’s affairs
his attitude was rather that of
an attentive pupil to a master
than that of a commissioner to
a witness.
Again Fate’s timing was for-
tunate—it was strange how
every event which affected the
progress of the wool-industry
appeared at the right second
over many a year. Bigge sailed
from New South Wales in
February, 1821. He reached
England in time to attend the
great wool-sale at Garraway’s
on August 17.
This was the auction which
took the trade out of its experi-
mental phase and changed the
face of the future. The auction-
eers were Marsh and Ebsworth,
66 Coleman-street, London.
Most of the wool, fresh out of
the Shipley (Captain Moncrieft),
lay at Cooper and Spratt s
warehouse in Duck’s Foot-lane.
The catalogue exists today, with
the records of the buyers and
prices in the handwriting of
John Macarthur, junior, of
Lincoln’s Inn.
It was a day of triumph. Mr.
Hurst, of the Royal Woollen
factory, began to bid at the
fourth lot, which he bought at
2s. 9d. All through he and other
famous factories were steady
bidders.
The Macarthur wool through-
out romped ahead of the rest, and
reached the zenith of its glory
after Hurst had bought for the
King’s manufactory two bales at
ss. 6d. a pound. He was run up
for a single choice bale to
10s. 4d. before he secured it.
It was a great day for young
Edward Macarthur and his
brother John, who were both
there, and they were able to
rejoice doubly as they noted that
next to their own prices were
those of Hannibal Macarthur,
their cousin, and John Oxley,
the Surveyor-General, their
neighbor at Kirkham. For both
of these —whose wool came far
lower in value than the Camden
clip but far higher than any
other from the colony—were
using cast Camden ewes.
Mr. Bigge went home from
the sale to write his famous
report. He dwelt largely on the
success of Camden Park as a
prototype of things to come.
He placed the numbers of the
Macarthur sheep at 6800, of
which 300 were pure Merinos;
the sale-value of the Camden
rams he put at from £l4 to £2B
per head. He noted that “the
high prices for which the finest
fleeces of Mr Macarthur’s flock
have been sold in the London
market will no doubt direct
attention of other proprietors
of land and stock to the adop-
tion of the same means by which
he has succeeded in obtaining
such a valuable article of
export.”
The average amount of wool
produced by each of the Mac-
arthur sheep in 1820, he said,
was 21b. 7oz. He seemed to see
no real difficulty in the expansion
of the fine-wool industry in New
South Wales.
The year before, taking land
in exchange for sheep which he
had sold to the Government for
the improvement of Van
Diemen’s Land flocks, Mac-
arthur had become the first indi-
vidual in Australia to buy land
from the Government instead of
receiving it as a grant on a
peppercorn rental. Bigge pointed
out that the occupation of 9000
acres did not permit him to pas-
ture more than 7000 sheep, and
that he was “anxiously looking
for opportunities of extending
his own land, either by additions
to his grant or by purchase.”
Bigge reported:
The proposal therefore for the sale
of land, contiguous to grants made
upon real capital (i.e., to be invested
in settlement by the occupier), is one
which will be very beneficial to
settlers, and will also be productive
of revenue to the Crown.
• Furthermore, he reported
favorably on the idea of a joint-
stock company for the produc-
tion of wool on a large scale, a
scheme which settlers who
shrank from invading the more
remote parts of the country
would “gladly embrace,” since
it would provide a co-operative
method whereby they might
benefit from the opening of the
wilderness while “exempting
themselves from individual exer-
tion” and incurring “no other or
greater degree of risk or expense
than that involved in paying the
salary of the superintendent, and
the subsistence of a certain
number of convicts.”
Finally he put the seal upon
his opinion of what the future
held for John Macarthur’s
vision:
. Upon the expediency of promoting
in the Colony of New South Wales
the growth of fine wool, and creat-
ing a valuable export from hence to
Great Britain, no doubt can be
entertained, as it appears to be the
principal, if not the only source of
productive , industry within the
Colony, from which the settlers can
derive the means of repaying the
advances made to them from the
mother country, or supplying their
own demands for articles of foreign
manufacture. The great advantages
of extent of pasturage that is now
opened between the Hastings River
in the North, and the country that
has been discovered in the neighbor-
hood of Lakes George and Bathurst
in the South, affords the most favor-
able opportunities for individuals
disposed and capable of entering
upon an extensive scheme of agricul-
tural speculation.
Australia v. Spain
The change which had taken
place in the magic year 1821 —the
year, too, of the retirement of
Macquarie and the end of the
old policies —was marked by the
fact that imports, hitherto worth
a mere £9OOO a year or so, sud-
denly leapt to the value of
£141,000.
Next year the Society of Arts
in London gave Macarthur two
gold medals —they are as bright
and new-looking today as they
were when they were issued —
one for being the first man to
send 150,0001 b. of fine-wool
from N. S. Wales, the other for
exporting from this country
wool equal to the finest Saxon.
Two years later, in 1824, there
was more gold for him for
having exported the largest
quantity of fine-wool yet sent
from the colony.
That summer in London there
was even greater triumph. A
glittering array of magnates—
East India Company directors,
lords, M.Ps. —conferred with
young John Macarthur, Aus-
tralian-born, now 30 years of
age, about the formation of the
great chartered stock-raising
company which was the culmina-
tion of his father’s dreams.
He was the centre of planning.
What he said was done, but it
was understood by all that his
parent, far away in the antipodes,
was the “mainspring of
everything.”
When the meeting had closed
it had been decided to form the
Australian Agricultural Com-
pany, with a cool million of
capital, with a Parliamentary
charter and a million acres of
land, to carry out the greatest
of all Macarthur schemes and to
develop, beside wool, the coal-
measures of Newcastle.
Roughly about 20 years after
the Argo had come heeling into
the port on June 7, 1805, bring-
ing home the prophet of wool
to be laughed at and discouraged
by his fellow-colonists, and his
surviving Royal rams and ewes,
Robert Dawson was starting out
with his first cargo of French
sheep and solid English Arm-
strong-bred Durham bulls and
cows to begin the A.A. settle-
ment at Port Stephens and
the extension of the pastoral-
industry northward.
Already, too, the tide was
flowing far southward, and
amid the advance-guard was
young James Macarthur, who
had marked out, in 1822, the
land-grant which Governor
Macquarie had given him a
year before on the Tarago, on
the present site of Taralga.
The year John Macarthur
died, at Camden Park, on April
11, 1834 —broken with suffering
and perennial pain; reduced, in
fact, to insanity —he had
watched from his confinement
the walls of his mansion rise
near the spot on which he had
bivouacked in 1805.
New South Wales exported to
England in the year of his death
twice as much wool as Spain.
But at that stage the burnt-
out hero of the fleece little cared.
It was recorded of him in his
last year of life that he took a
great interest in the large
flower-gardens, the spinneys, the
horses, the cattle about the place
which his botanical son William
was developing.
But he “never mentioned the
sheep.” And when he died not
a single newspaper mentioned his
service to his country or his
connection with wool.


Origins of the Merino-breed
THE CAMDEN MERINOS
SIR WILLIAM MACARTHUR'S OWN ACCOUNT
THERE has always been
speculation among sheep-
breeders as to the part
played by the Camden
Merinos in the development of
Australian sheep, and particu-
larly as to whether they were
infused with Saxon blood dur-
ing the vogue for the Saxons
and Rambouillets in the 1820’s.
The fact appears to be that
there were no fusions with the
German and French blood. John
Macarthur himself had a phobia
against these types of sheep, and
his sbns, James and William,
who were two great studmasters,
and who developed the tech-
niques of Camden Park, were
of the same mind. James paid
visits to Europe in the late 1820’s
and the late 1830’s, but nothing
he saw weaned him from his
earlier opinions.
There were two strains in the
Camdens (that is, omitting the
early blood, hairy Bengals and
Irish). The first were the sheep
brought by Waterhouse from the
Cape of Good Hope in 1797,
“of the Spanish kind, sent
originally from Holland to the
Cape.” Macarthur stated in 1803
that English judges who had seen
the fleeces produced by crossing
these sheep with the original
colonial sheep had reported that
they “possessed a softness
superior to many of the wools
of Spain ; ai\d that it certainly
is equal, in every valuable
property, to the very best that is
to be obtained from thence.”
He reported that up to the
time at which he had left N. S.
Wales for England (November,
1801) the heaviest fleece shorn
in the Elizabeth Farm flocks
was 3|lb., but in 1802 fleeces of
51b. were shorn.
A letter from Sir. William
Macarthur, written in April,
1866, of which there is a copy in
the Mad&rthur# Papers, and the
original of which turned up in
England in 1952, when it was
lent to Miss Margaret Kiddle,
M.A., by Mr. Michael Living-
stone Learmonth, settles some
of the debatable questions about
the fate of the flock which was
sold eventually (save for some
pure sheep of the original strains)
to Mr. William Campbell.
Campbell distributed their
produce to form«the great Currie
and Learmonth Ercildoune flocks
and others which became famous
for their size, stamina, fine-wool
and breeding-qualities in the
late-middle decades of the 19th.
century.
The finst Camden flock sold
did not comprise the registered
flock, which was kept for five
years during the 1850’s, in a
period during which the demand
had so dwindled that scarcely a
single ram was sold ; after which
the owners “thought it useless to
continue under the adverse
conditions.”
Sir William wrote that the
Royal Merinos purchased at
Kew in 1804, which “I have
always understood to be of a
somewhat different type from the
originals, with more dewlap and
darker faces, but outside that
very close woolled and less fine,
provided the only two types of
stud-blood used in the half-
century the stud was intact at
Elizabeth Farm and Camden.
His letter continues:
“Several experiments were
made in after years with the
view to correcting a special defect
which I will notice further as
caused by local circumstances,
but a sheep of German blood
was never used, for what at the
time seemed sufficient reasons
which I will also return to.
“Only on one occasion after
1805 we became importers of
sheep. They were six rams of
English Merino blood, were not
ordered by us and were never
anything but an encumbrance.
“On another occasion, I think
in 1834, at the particular request
of a friend, the only intelligent
owner of a flock of Saxon sheep,
in high repute, we exchanged a
certain number of ewes and a
ram. I cannot state what results
followed the experiments he com-
menced. He unfortunately died
two years afterwards.... but I
can give some account of the
sheep received from him.
“Each party, I think, selected
20 ewes from 100 which had
been set apart for the purpose,
and got a suitable ram.... My
first object was to satisfy myself
as to the fixity of character of
the race I was about to deal
[with].... We continued the
experiment until they got to the
second generation, by which
time there was such a remarkable
diversity in the character and
quality of the fleeces of the lot
that it was evident they would
be useless to us and we sold the
whole; but they had not been
crossed with ours.
“Other experiments were
afterwards made in which certain
of our ewes were put to rams of
English Merino, and of French
Merino blood, but we never saw
cause to justify the introduction
of the progeny into the stud
flock.
“From 1817, when I made my
first acquaintance with [the
flock], it was then, where from
the first it had always been kept,
upon my father’s Parramatta
property, a peninsula bounded
by saltwater creeks, of about
1000 acres, several hundred of
which were of light, dry, not
very fertile, soil, totally cleared
to form the run by day. But
from first to last, on account of
native dogs, they were kept
within hurdles at night. In 1820
their increasing numbers caused
them to be removed to this
property [Camden Park]; and
from that time, I may say, their
management devolved almost
1797 Cape Spanish sheep and the wholly upon me.
A pen of curiosities —sheep that moult! One in the picture
has half-shed its coat, without benefit of shearer. Photo-
graphed by Mac. Falkiner on his visit to Brazil.
“For a number of years after
their removal they improved
ma t er i a fly in size and in weight
and uni f o rm fineness of their
fleeces; but the nature of the
country in its uncleared state and
until the total extirpation, in late
yearSj of the native dog, forbade
the maintenance of much more
than 40Q £wes together . and to
flQck waj
always confined.
“In 1825 each individual in
this flock rece i ved a permanent
Purebred descendants of the original flock at Camden Park; 1914.
distinctive number to correspond
with a minute description in a
large folio register. By dint of
constant practice I had by this
time acquired a keen perception
of every shade of quality in fine-
wool fleeces, and each successive
spring I made careful examina-
tion of every animal, recording
the result opposite its number in
the Register for the year.
“This document stated the
parentage on both sides, weight
of clean washed fleece, quality,
length, closeness and character of
every portion, with the form,
size and apparent constitution
of the animal, adding such other
remarks as the most minute
examination might suggest, with
reference to the fleeces, outside
or inside, on the sheep.
“Two columns were left in
blank, one for the number of
the stallion and the other for that
of the progeny. Bear in mind
that the wool of this flock since
it had reached the London
markets had produced from 4s.
to 7s. sd. per lb., and on one
occasion 10s. 4d. at auction.
“I continued this practice in
later times with less minuteness,
I admit, for nearly 30 years, so
that up to the time of parting
with the flock I could follow the
pedigree of every individual up
to 1825, and in many instances
by tradition much further back.
During the entire period there
never was known amongst them
infectious disease of any sort —
no scab, catarrh, Cumberland
disease, fluke, etc. Moreover, I
never knew fluke to be produced
upon this run, which was always
perfectly healthy for the animals,
however unfit it gradually
became for a stud flock of fine-
woolled sheep on account of the
damage to their fleeces.
“About 1826, a second flock
of pure ewes was formed, which
was shortly afterwards removed
to a very different climate about
100 miles distant. A very
elevated district of fertile soil
of trap formation, very thickly
grassed.
“Here for about 12 or 13 years
the sheep throve satisfactorily, at
first producing larger animals
with heavier and closer fleeces
than at Camden Park. But this
improvement soon sensibly
diminished, then disappeared,
and the run at length gradually
became very unhealthy for sheep.
They got infected with fluke and
with the sheep tick.
“The thoroughbred sheep upon
this run were never registered,
their blood being simply verified
by a face brand burned in at the
weaning, a precaution which had
been adopted at a very early
period.
“Each year the second flock
were supplemented by draft ewes
from the registered flock at
Camden Park, but the ewes
from the second flock were
dispersed without further note of
their blood throughout the
general flocl<£.
“In no instance were sheep
brought back from the inferior
flock to the best. From the
second flock were drafted the
ewes which Mr. William Camp-
bell took with him to Victoria,
a portion of the progeny of
which I understand to be the
property of lan Mac Knight.
“The Registered flock was
retained at Camden Park long
after we parted with our general
flocks, long after there had
ceased to be a run here suitable
for them; in fact until the end
of 1858. Up till the last their
constitutions were excellent, but
they had special treatment. Of
plump, rounded forms with very
short legs, and a tendency to
defective hoofs, they were bad
walkers. To do them justice the
shepherd should never have
been behind them —but left to
themselves undisturbed, upon
short, healthy pastures, they
would maintain high condition
upon very little, and live to a
very great age.
“Unfortunately, for a long
period the pastures here had
been getting less and less adapted
for sheep, especially a fine-
woolled flock kept to breed rams.
The land, naturally all forest and
broken into short hill and dale,
had become crowded—choked
up in many places by thickets of
saplings and large thorn bushes
(Bursaria spinosa), and the sweet
natural herbage had for the most
part been replaced by coarse
wirey grasses Which grew un-
cropped and some of them pro-
duced numerous barbed seeds.
“These penetrated the fleeces
and skins of the poor animals
and caused perpetual irritation
and kicking. In spite of every
effort to correct it in breeding,
the tendency gained ground to a
loose, open character about the
lower portions of the fleeces.
“The constant dragging, too,
through long grass and bushes,
especially when wet, had a most
injurious effect upon the outsides
of the fleeces. It was a perpetual
struggle to keep under the con-
sequences of unsuitable pastures.
Of the causes I never had a
doubt.
“Had circumstances not led
our excellent old friend Mr.
William Campbell to disconnect
himself for a time with these
colonies it is probable that the
flock, or the great portion of it,
would have been transferred to
him; and what a treasure it
would have proved to you Vic-
torians qo one can know so
well as L However, to my great
regret it was not to be, and they
went in a different direction.
“I had an opportunity of
examining some specimen fleeces
selected for exhibition said to
have been produced by them
some years after they were
removed from this place. I was
never more disappointed. I am
quite at a loss to account for the
unfavorable change.
“I have very little more to
relate.
“None of our sheep, although
occasionally exposed to the infec-
tion, ever suffered from catarrh ;
and we always believed that only
the flocks containing the Saxon
blood suffered from it. Certainly
many of those which were well
known to have German blood in
them suffered most severely, and
I never heard of the flocks
derived solely from ours being
affected. This made us very shy
of the Saxon race. No doubt
many of the German flocks are
as free as any others from the
taint, but the fact remains that
we never knew the disease,
although we had heard of its
existence in Germany, until the
blood of imported German sheep
became widely dispersed in cold,
exposed sites.
“Our sheep were a remark-
ably long-lived race. From one
favorite ewe we had 20 female
lambs, nine pair of twins and
two single lambs—but I used to
observe that the produce of ewes
of advanced age never equalled
their younger progeny in the
more valuable qualities of fleeces.
“I never hesitated to breed
from the nearest relatives if
desirous to fix any particular
characteristic and never knew
feebleness or degeneracy to
result. On the contrary, some
of the most remarkable animals
for constitution, both amongst
sheep and horses, were bred in
and in‘ as closely as possible.
“With feeble parents I should
expect a weakly race, the reverse
with the strong, so that mere
nearness of kin in the parents I
should consider to be of no other
effect than to bring a more fixed
character in the offspring, which-
ever that character may be. This
was my father’s opinion.”
Some of the Victorian
descendants of the original flock
were brought back in the 1880’s
and their breed is still today on
Camden Park, where it is kept
for sentimental reasons.


AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST INDUSTRY/
The NATIONAL BANK extends an
appreciation to all those who, over the
years, have done so much to develop
and expand Australia’s foremost in-
dustry.
From small beginnings in New South
Wales a century and a half ago, the
Nation’s flock has grown to 127,000,000
sheep which graze over vast areas of
country side. Today, Australia is pre-
eminent in sheep numbers and is the
leading producer of fine wools.
For almost a century the National
Bank has been associated with wool
growing, and with many other primary
and secondary industries in their
diverse activities and growth. In the
future, as in the past, the Bank will
continue to make its resources, facili-
ties and services available to help in
the advancement of Australia and in
the welfare of its people.
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) t
Farming is a Way
of Living
By E. O. SCHLUNKE
BRITISH
SHEEP BREEDS
Southdown
Shropshire
Suffolk
Dorset. Down
Hampshire Down
IT was during the rather grim
days of the 1930’s depres-
sion that I first heard the
opinion expressed that
“farming is a business.”
It was at a field-day or a
farmers’ conference of some sort
run by the Department of Agri-
culture ; forms of entertainment
which were popular among
farmers in those days because
they were usually free, and
because there was always a
remote possibility that something
useful might be picked up which
would assist to support the family
until that ever-receding turn for
the better took place.
The essence of a lecture on this
particular occasion was that you
had to plan your costs accord-
ing to your receipts. That is, if
it cost you 3s. a bushel to grow
wheat for which you could get
only 25., or is. 6d. a pound to
grow wool for which you could
get only Is., then it was up to
you to cut your costs by reduc-
ing your expenditure, and/or
increasing your production per
acre to such a degree that you
would be able to avoid a loss on
your year’s work.
That this was pretty grim
advice for people who’d been
cutting their costs quite desper-
ately for years, and were still
receiving a bare subsistence for
their year’s work, while a mount-
ing liability was eating away their
invested capital, is beside the
point; but the fact that it pro-
vided the excuse and even indi-
cated the necessity for a
rapacious, exploiting type of
farming goes to show the kind
Oxford Down
of errors which well-meaning
theorists are always likely to
lead farmers into, if they over-
look the primary fact that farm-
ing is essentially a way of living.
The farmer, according to this
view, operated a factory for pro-
cessing the raw materials of
earth, air and water, plus a
calculated amount of added
chemicals, into foodstuffs and
fibres, with the aid of a certain
amount of machinery and labor.
If his operations did not show
the kind of margin which would
satisfy any other kind of manu-
facturer it was futile for him
to state that he wanted to keep
on doing it because he liked the
life, and that he considered that
things might take a turn for the
better in the future.
Likes and hopes, he was
assured, would not balance any
budgets.
At about the same time
another agency made an objec-
tive economic survey of certain
farming areas, and declared that
80 per cent, of the farmers were
hopelessly bankrupt, and that the
sooner they abandoned their
Leicester
farms, the more intelligence they
would be showing.
That the majority of the con-
demned men did not follow this
seemingly reasonable advice was
due not only to the peculiar
obstinacy of farmers but to the
fact that the Governments of the
day were fearful of them joining
the armies of the unemployed,
and so continued to provide the
means to carry on, on a dole-
level of existence.
The fact that at the present
time almost all of these hopeless
cases are prosperous, having long
ago repaid their obligations to
the various Government bodies
which assisted them, seems to
indicate, even if we look for no
other evidence, that it is quite
wrong to regard farming purely
as a business.
The greatest asset that any
farmer has is something which is
incalculable to the economist, so
ready to declare certain sections
of the agricultural community
bankrupt (a few years ago it was
the dairyfarmers; now, I
believe, it is the poultry-industry
Border Leicester
Lincoln Longwool
South Devon
Wensleydale
Kent or Romney Marsh
Devon Longwool
Improved Dartmoor
that is receiving their attention).
It is something quite incompre-
hensible to the accountancy-
minded person —the capacity of
farmers to carry on year after
year, when prospects are seem-
ingly hopeless, until a change in
the world’s economic situation
and a return of good seasons
give them the lift they need.
It might be interposed here,
by an unsympathetic reader, that
actually the main requirement of
a successful farmer would appear
to be a large bank-balance, avail-
able to meet losses in bad years.
It is not, however, the amount
of money but the manner in
which that money is regarded
which has the greater effect.
An up-to-date example of this
can be seen in post-1945 soldier-
settlements. Here, where all the
settlers started off on virtually
the same financial footing, it is
the general rule that the more
successful settlers—not judging
them by how much money they
make, but by the manner in
which they run their farms—are
those who were brought up on
the land.
The successful, in this sense,
are the men who had bred into
them that rather stern discipline
which enabled them, like the
pioneers of other days, to face
cheerfully years of hardships,
low incomes and living in tents
and garages while they developed
their farms, and which gave
them the moral sfability, when
the gratifyingly large wool-
cheques began to come in, to
remember, when planning the
spending of them, that the farm
must come first; that instead of
holding continuous celebrations,
the bulk of the money had to
be earmarked for fencing, stock,
machinery and such less-
interesting things.
This may seem to be a fairly
simple matter, which anyone
with a bit of sen§e could readily
learn. Actually it requires an
extremely rigid type of self-
control to avoid spending in
casual tens and twenties a
disastrous portion of the
thousands which may come in
one big lump.
Perhaps I may seem to be
putting too great a stress on the
financial aspect of farming, but
it does provide the most readily
comprehensible v example of what
constitutes the farmer’s chief
quality—the ability to take the
long view; the willingness to
endure present hardship for the
sake of achieving, ultimately,
some desirable end.
Whether the object is always
worth the effort required to
achieve it is entirely a matter of
opinion. It may happen quite
frequently that the object is never
achieved; the mortgage never
entirely paid off ; the new home-
stead never built; the erosion
never entirely defeated. But I
do believe that the farmer goes
as near as anyone in this world
to enjoying his work, and that is
largely his compensation for the
failures which beset him.
Things agricultural have
changed a great deal since the
ancient days when Virgil wrote
his Georgies, but one recognises
an enduring, elemental truth in
Scottish Blackface


rv
?=T
: \v
V
•«
r_
/
« ...
***?
w«*
iIAJUI
gS§!) n ni.< fJ
T
. -'"•S’
PH
TD©s
TAKE MY WORD FOR IT ...
a really good building pays right from the start
“....and I always reckon its worth paying a bit extra for a good
sturdy job—rather than risk buying trouble. That’s one thing those
ASP buildings of mine have never given—trouble. They’re solid right
down to their foundations —fully-prefabricated, you see, not just pre-
cut as so many buildings are these days. I examined them all
carefully, I can tell you —after all, no worthwhile building is ever cheap
—and I found that ASP had the big range of alternative designs and the
engineered finish that saves erection delays. Each section arrived at
my place fully-prefabricated, ready to be assembled with just a few nuts
and bolts, so the whole building was up and working for me in no
time. That shearing shed I got last year has taken some real punishment,
believe me, but it didn’t even vibrate when all the gear was going flat
out. And this month I’m adding some skillion attachments to that
ASP hayshed of mine. That’ll give me a lot more room, and I’ll get the
full 20 per cent, depreciation on it before tax day comes round. I’m not
missing out on that. The old man tells me I should think about one of
those ASP accommodation buildings, too. He’s got one on his place
and it’s saved him a packet—in time and money. So I’ll keep my eye
on one—l reckon it’s worth looking ahead a bit, don’t you? Inciden-
tally, the ASP people quote you a firm price right from the start, includ-
ing erection if you want them to erect. And another thing, they send
you all the information you want, but they don’t pester you.
Anyway, there it is. If you’re wanting a good solid building for your
place, you can’t do better than call on ASP. They’ll save you a lot of
time and money from the start —and keep on saving you money in the
long run, too. Their buildings are real assets —take my word for it...
Full details of this 4 Stand ASP Shearing Shed—
and its companions, the 2,3, 5,6, 8 and 10 Stand
Sheds —can be sent to you immediately on request.
All are supplied complete and speedily erected. A
cross-section of this ASP building will be on
display at the Sheep Show.
im
137 Bayswater Road,
Rushcutter’s Bay
Tel: FA 7825 FA 6595
Telegrams: “Chatspa,” Sydney
THE BUILDINGS
YOUR WOOLHOUSE
RECOMMENDS
SEE US AT THE SHEEP SHOW
At this year’s Sheep *Show, ASP introduces an interesting new range of sturdy, low-cost
buildings called ASP Cadets —younger brothers to the popular, and heavier, ASP Portal
Frame. These new 20ft. span buildings are designed especially for the man who wants a
lower-priced yet fully-braced Machinery Shed —Store Building—Combination Office and
Machinery Shed —or Combination Lock-up Garage and Machinery Shed. The ASP staff
at the Sheep Show will be pleased to discuss your building problems with you personally.
If you’re not visiting the Sheep Show this year, illustrated brochures giving full details
of all ASP Buildings—including the new Cadets—will be sent to you upon request.
AUSTRALIAN STEEL PREFABRICATIONS
what he wrote. It is desirable to
read the whole book to get the
feeling of it, but a quotation or
two is sufficient to show that the
enthusiasts then felt the same
about country life as they do
today. (C. Day Lewis trans-
lation) :
Oh, too lucky for words, if only he
knew his luck,
Is the countryman who far from the
clash of armaments
Lives, and rewarding earth is lavish
of all he needs!
He has no poor to pity, no envy
for the rich.
The fruit of the bough, the crops that
the field is glad to bear
Are his for the gathering.....
Other men dare the sea with their
oars blindly, or dash
On the sword, or insinuate themselves
into royal courts:
One ruins a whole town and the
tenements of the poor
In his lust for jewelled cups, for
scarlet linen to sleep on;
Clun Forest
Kerry Hill {Wales)
Exmore Horn
Swaledale
Rough Fell
Lonk
Herdwick
Cheviot
Welsh Mountain
One piles up great wealth, gloats over
his cache of g01d....
But still the farmer furrows the land
with his curving plough.
The land is his annual labor, it keeps
his native country,
His little grandsons and herds of
cattle and trusty bullocks.
Unresting the year teems with orchard
fruit, or young
Of cattle, or sheaves of corn,
Brimming the furrows with plenty,
overflowing the barns
Autumn drops her varied fruits at
our feet, while far
Above on the sunny rocks the vintage
basks and mellows.
And all the time he has dear children
who dote on kisses,
A house that preserves* the tradition
of chastity, cows that hang
Their milky udders, and plump young
goats on the happy green
Romping and butting with their horns.
Essentially, the present-day
farmer, like Virgil’s farmer, is a
countryman because he likes the
life of the farmer.
Dorset Horn
When he goes to town or city
he may talk, in expansive
moments, about the money he
makes; but that may be a sort
of excuse ; an attempt to justify
the kind of life he leads, which,
he knows, looks like an appalling
exile to the town-dweller.
He may even go farther ; put-
ting on a show; living a life of
luxury for a few weeks of holi-
day ; or buying a new car, more
expensive® than he can afford,
because it is the only way to
convince city people that he is
not a complete idiot for living a
lonely life in the country.
He knows very well that he
could never make people under-
stand that in his opinion there
are things much more desirable
than a four-days-a-week job with
a high salary and an unques-
Wiltshire Horn
tioned expense-account, a luxury-
flat close to the theatres .and
night-clubs, a wife who looks as
beautiful as a movie-actress, and
a taxi-rank at the very doors.
The true farmer is a man with
“green fingers,” who finds him-
self in harmony with Nature;
whose sap begins to rise when
the first rains bring the earth to
life again after the heat of
summer of the cold of winter;
who experiences a profound joy
in walking alone across his
paddocks when the clovers begin
to cover the land; who feels as
a wound in his own flesh the raw
gash of an eroded gully.
But what about the farmer's
wife? According to a recent
survey, women are very reluctant
to marry farmers. This is quite
understandable when one recog-
Ryeland
nises that most farmers are
devoted to their land, and that
usually the wife is offered the
alternatives of either sharing in
that devotion or becoming a
useful adjunct to the husband's
lifelong service to his farm.
Not a very pleasing prospect
for a young woman ; it is only
natural that they should choose
the suburbs.
This is not meant as a warning
to yet-unmarried women. Some
of the most admirable women I
know are happily married to
farmers ; but they are the excep-
tional women who are capable of
taking the long view. I would
not say that it is particularly
clever of them to marry farmers ;
I do think, though, that they add
{Continued on next page)
Devon Closewool


FAMOUS STUD FLOCKS
« BOONOKE
• WANGANELLA ESTATE
• POLL BOONOKE
Reg. No. 7
Reg. No. 84
Reg. No. 987
PURE PEPPIN Founded on 75 per cent of Peppin’s original stud
BOONOKE and 50 per cent, of Peppin’s flocks bought by F. S. Falkiner in
1878 ... Wanganella Estate purchased 1910 ... Poll Boonoke commenced 1933 ...
Approx. 6000 Boonoke rams, 2000 Wanganella Estate rams and 2000 Poll
Boonoke rams supplied annually.
as
■*
8388
m
. -v:
m i
m
, J;:
>’-8,
W-mM
•• • :
*
& t
I 111 1 lit L
m.
:r-A
m
ii .*•
Ik
J-M?
■I
ill!
§B3
m
asa
High-class Poll Boonoke Stud Merino Rams for 1955 Sydney Sales
REPRESENTS THE BIGGEST RAM SELLING BUSINESS
ON EARTH —50 million ewes can’t be wrong!
BOONOKE AND WANGANELLA ESTATE BLOOD GROWS
MORE THAN ONE MILLION BALES OF WOOL EACH YEAR
Telegrams:
BOONRAM, URANA
Phone: Urana 15
All grades stud and flock rams for immediate delivery (subject to sales )
apply : Sales Manager
F. S. FALKINER & SONS PTY. LTD.
BOONOKE NORTH, WIDGIEWA N.S.W.
Q’land depot: CLEEVE, LONGREACH
m m
Since time immemorial the staple has played the major
part in clothing the world. For over a century
it has led Australia’s primary industries. For
66 seasons, Winchcombe, Carson Limited has
faithfully served generations of wool-
growers. In 43 seasons their sales have
led in the Sydney market and for the
past twelve consecutive seasons in
Newcastle. During the 1954-53
season they sold over 300,000
bales of the Australian clip.
YOU, too, may reap the benefits
of their extensive experience by
consigning YOUR clip to . . .
WINCHCOMBE
CARSON, LTD
Wool Selling Brokers
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE
Head Office: WINCHCOMBE HOUSE, BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
Newcastle Office: 10 Watt St. Brisbane Office: 99-101 Eagle St.
Branches at Your Service throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
V
V
hnchcombe
Corson
ENTRIES ARE INVITED FOR
INTERNATIONAL
FLEECE
COMPETITION
Royal Melbourne Show,
22nd* September to
Ist October, 1955
Entries Close
FRIDAY, 2nd SEPTEMBER
44 Classes provided for all
Qualities of Fleece Wool
£427 in Prize Money
and Trophies
Sectional Schedules Now
Available on Application to
The Secretary,
Royal Agricultural Society
of Victoria,
422 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Victoria
evidence to my contention that
farming is a way of living,, and
that anyone taking it up needs
to be sure that he or she is the
right sort of person for that life.
Although I said earlier that it
was an advantage for a farmer
to be born and bred to the life,
there are, and I believe always
will be, a large number of men
on the land of urban upbringing
who have taken up farming at
varied stagey of their lives. Some
feel the urge as soon as they
leave school, and nothing will
prevent them from following it.
They may spend the first half
of their lives as outcasts from
International Wool Secretariat features this brace of class
Corriedales. New Zealand's own speciality, they reward
good farming with good wool and good meat.
their families, enduring all sorts
of hardships until a long-delayed
financial success convinces their
relations that they may have had
a little sense, after all.
Some men spend the bulk of
their lifetimes pressed into some
other profession or business by
unavoidable circumstances, mak-
ing a success of it by dour appli-
cation until the day arrives—it
might be in their middle years,
or at the age when other men
plan to retire from work —when
they can get away from it and
buy a farm. Some of these turn
out to be very good farmers.
The long years of waiting have
taught them valuable lessons of
patience which prove very
useful in their new occupations.
Some of them come surpris-
ingly well equipped with infor-
mation ; for decades they may
have been secretly addicted to
reading all the departmental
booklets which the average
practising farmer never gives
himself time to read. One may
have seen them at experiment-
farm field-days, at agricultural
shows, or stock-sales, without
ever conceiving that these were
anything but social outings for
them. Then suddenly the farmer
throws off his disguise, begins to
till his acres and tend his stock.
I believe that these men enjoy
their farming more than anyone
else. They come to it as
enthusiasts with no foolish
notions that farming is a busi-
ness or a science. They know
what business is like; that is
why they were determined to
escape from it. This, they think,
is where their real life begins ;
and they have some reason for
thinking so.
It is a fine thing to be a
farmer ; to wake up in the morn-
ing, when there is nothing press-
ing to be done, and plan what
you are going to do during the
day without reference to anybody
else.
You can even plan to do
nothing at all if you feel like
it; except perhaps, to take a
leisurely walk to see how the
ewes are getting on in the
western paddock. Might as well
take the young sheep-dog along
and give him a bit more train-
ing before he forgets what you
have already taught him; though
he will probably run amuck
among the sheep and take the
bloom off the sunshine for you.
Better take a wire-strainer
along, too, because the wires are
a bit slack in the far fence, and
the sheep may begin to get
through into the oats. But if
those wires are pulled tight will
that rather aged corner-post
stand the strain? Really ought
to take a new strainer-post out
on the truck, and take an axe to
cut a stay,
And while the truck is out it
would be a good idea to bring in
a load of firewood for that big
open fireplace which your city
friends bask around so admir-
ingly in the winter; and, since
that sort of work is too hard for
you to care to do on your own,
you’ll have to take along the
tediously garrulous youth whose
presence will ruin any outing for
you.
Yet you are your own boss,
and you can do, or not do, any
or all of those things on your
slack day. But perhaps you
recognise the fact that if you
don’t do them today when you
have the opportunity, necessity
will oblige you to do them on
another day \yhen you have a lot
of other things to do as well.
Necessity has a way of becom-
ing a very hard taskmaster for
the man who is his own boss;
so best to placate him. Give up
that idea of the leisurely stroll,
and get out the truck.


Reg. MERINO FLOCK No. 383
Founded by the late James Litchfield in 1865, Hazeldean
occupies an honoured place among the best Merino studs
of Australia.
.. * . #
This 90-year-old ram-breeding establishment supplies BIG, PLAIN-BODIED,
PROFITABLE RAMS that are bred on HIGH OPEN PLAINS, 3000 ft. above
sea-level, with rainfall averaging only 19 inches per annum.
GREAT BONE AND CONSTITUTION ARE INHERENT QUALITIES
OF THESE SHEEP
mm
v
l
: m
imi
' f 8§
m
I i
gf
is
-
HAZELDEAN’S CHAMPION PEN OF 5 MERINO RAMS, SYDNEY, 1953
APART FROM THE USUAL EXCELLENT TEAM OF SHOW AND SALE
RAMS FOR THIS MONTH’S STUD SHEEP FAIR AT SYDNEY, rams are
available ex Hazeldean from the annual January classings. These can be relied
on for top production of lambs, and wool, on low or high country—true medium
wool high yielding, with plenty of character. Hazeldean rams are popular also
in New Zealand
Enquiries welcomed for stud and flock rams:
JAMES F. LITCHFIELD
HAZELDEAN PASTORAL COMPANY
COOMA, N.S.W. Telephone: COOMA 595 D
•Phenovis*—Brand of
Phenothiazlne.
UPON
(t&D
and
oven
/
WORLD
me
m
0
i
in liquid,powder or tablet form I
The mosf effective dre/tchl
for worms in sheep f |
Available NOW from Your Usual Supplier
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ICI
■PHE.3SX.ItI;
Sheep Oddments
By J.S.B.
MODERN sheep are the
result of centuries of
careful selection and
breeding. The first
keeper of sheep was Neolithic
man. All sheep seem to have
sprung from two very distinct
stocks—the Moufflon of Europe,
and the Asiatic Uriah
Some primitive breeds of
sheep, to the casual eye, look
more like goats than sheep. But
sheep differ from goats in
several ways. The outline of the
face, the shape of the horns
(sometimes very large in males,
but, in domestication, absent in
many breeds), the chin (the sheep
is beardless), the teeth (upper in-
cisors and canines absent), and
the anatomy of the foot. The
sheep has a sac, or pit, between
the toes, lined with hair and
secreting a fatty matter.
They fight differently, too.
Goats rear on their hind legs,
and throw themselves sideways
on to their ppponent, to bring
the points of their horns to bear.
Sheep rush straight at each
other, a mode which better suits
the different style of armament.
Ever see two lusty rams fight?
The two warriors back menac-
ingly—some 15 or 20 yards
each —and then rush at each
other, fiat-out; meeting with
great violence, their heads crack-
ing loudly together, and their
beam-ends bouncing with the
shock of collision. Sheep with-
out horns seem to be less pug-
nacious. One breed in the Hima-
layas, known as the Borwal
sheep, is used in the Punjab and
other parts of India as a fighting-
sheep. It’s pitted in combat
either with its fellows, or with
other animals.
An interesting wild sheep is
the great mountain-sheep of the
Thian Shan and other lofty
country of Central Asia; 10i
hands high (3ft. 6in.), the horns
(each some 3ft. long) forming a
wide open curve. M&rco Polo
met it in the 12th century .
The Argali, another interest-
ing fellow, is a native of the
Himalayas, only seen in very
high parts. The sheep is very
long-legged, stands as high as
a calf, and has immense horns—
those of the male nearly 4ft.
long and Min. in circumference
at the base, where they are tri-
angular. These sheep have great
powers of leaping.
The common sheep was prob-
ably the first animal domesti-
cated by man. Many changes
have taken place during this
period of domestication. Man
has changed the covering of the
sheep from a kind of double-
fleece —that is, one which, under
a superficial hairy coat, was a
soft under-fur and, during
long ages of domestication, has
developed the lower layer: so
now only the face and legs re-
tain' their original covering.
Two other changes have re-
sulted from domestication: the
brain has greatly decreased
in size (as compared with wild
sheep), and the tail has greatly
increased in length. A further
peculiarity about the tail of
domesticated sheep is that, in
certain types, it becomes loaded
with fat, till it may attain a
weight, of as much as 401 b.
Fried in slices, it is regarded by
the Arabs as a delicacy.
The felting and weaving of
wool was unquestionably among
the earliest of the arts. The
wool was probably pulled from
the skin ; a cruel practice, which
long survived in some places.
Sheep-shearing is often referred
to in Scripture. The leather
(basil) made from the skin of
the sheep is much employed in
bookbinding and for making
gloves. (An Australian curiosity
in the bookbinding line is the
very limited edition of Brian
Penton’s Landtakers which was
published by the Endeavour
Press—2s copies bound in skins
of sheep from the Queensland
locality in which the story is set.)
In patriarchal times the milk
of the ewes was much used—
as it still is in some countries.
It’s richer than cow’s milk, and
the cheese made from it has a
sharp taste and a strong flavor.
In some mountainous parts of
India a sheep known as the
Hunia is used for carrying salt,
borax and other loads of 35-
401 b. up steep crags where almost
no other animal could be em-
ployed.
It was recently reported that
the breed known as “Jacob’s
sheep” was extinct. This is not
correct, although the breed is
exceedingly rare. This queer
sheep, which looks like a cross
between a deer and a goat, is
speckled black-and-white and
has four horns. Originating in
Palestine, for the past 500 years
at least it has been exclusive to
England; the Romans are be-
lieved to have taken it there.
Finally, as an illustration of
the versatility of the species, in
some of the Orkneys, where no
other provender exists, the little
sheep of the Loagthan type are
fed on fish, specially dried os
rocks for the purpose. And, b :
way of a change of diet, the}
will make their way down to th
sea at low-tide to feed on sea
weed.
Those Bits and Pieces
THERE is no waste in wool,
Every staple has its price,
But many woolgrowers do not
seem to be aware of what they
neglect in “bits and pieces.”
Probably hundreds of pounds
are swept annually out of
shearing-sheds with greasy
brooms, or lie neglected in the
dust of shed-yards.
Yet Sydney wool-pooling
organisation head Jim Bridg-
land says his company, for
instance, has five categories into
which these “scraps” are divided,
Classifications range from super-
dead, through combing and
carding, to the dags or inferior
carbonising wools, including pen-
sweepings
Super-dead (plucked) wool is
the top-grade dead-wool. It
commands a fair price on the
floor, and is mixed with greasy
wool to be made into high-grade
garments.
The next two grades are good-
and average-combing dead-wool.
Scoured and put through comb-
ing-machines, these wools have
the advantage of being pre-
shrunk through having lain ir
the open. They will never scoui
white, but remain creamy, an(
are made into anything liable tc
be worn next to the skin
children’s singlets, jumpers,
sweaters, etc.
Fourth-grade of these scrap
wools is carding- or carbonising
dead. It is used for making felt
an d high-grade underfelts,
Pen-sweepings and dags yielc
the lowest category inferior
carbonising-dead. The dags are
crushed and passed over a shaker
which separates the wool, which
w j de iy used m ake the lower-
rade underfelts .
~ , .
Most of thls l° w -g rade wo °
goes to the carbonising-plants of
North France, Belgium, Italy anc
Germany.
So for the woolgrower every
piece has its price. Even skin-
pieces assume value in the fell
rn ° n g ers ’ hands. And the bits
and p ‘ eces t ?°, °[ te ?? rl ‘Jjf"
regarded-can help build the
growers and Australia s budget,
R. R.


!&iiUl!
CENTURY’S NEW
Home Lighting Battery
with these WONDERFUL
NEW FEATURES
1
CLEAR POLYSTYRENE CONTAINER
You can see the acid level at a glance.
*
2
GRAVITY INDICATORS
State of charge visible at all times. No need for
hydrometer.
SILVIUM
The magical new additive giving longer plate life and
increased efficiency.
4
GLASS INSULATION—
ensures longer life and GREATER POWER.
GUARANTEED
YEARS
3
mm
Wm
m
m
c
..
i
HI
;; V.v
CENTURY'S NEW Glass Insulated with SILVIUM
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY. Type CPG 227.
0
0
0
These inbuilt visual ball indicators show clearly
and instantly the state of charge of the battery
at all times.
r
Made by
CENTURY
STORAGE
BATTERY
CO. LTD.,
GUouss L^usuXcCted
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
rr
M.
es SILVIO
Alexandria, N.S.W.
CENTURY BATTERIES FOR CARS. TRUCKS. TRACTORS.
HOME LIGHTING ARE DISTRIBUTED BY:
EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT, MOTOR CYCLES, RADIO,
NEW SOUTH WALES: Century Storage Battery Co.
Ltd., Birmingham Street, Alexandria. Smith Sons &
Rees Ltd., 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney. Bradley
Bros. Ltd., 55-59 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney. Industrial
Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., Parramatta Road,
Lidcombe. Motor Traders Pty. Ltd., 70 Common-
wealth Street, Sydney.
LOWER RIVERINA: Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.,
5 1 5 Kiewa Street, Albury.
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty.,
458 Brunswick Street, Brisbane. Plant & Plant
(Machinery) Pty. Ltd., 323-325 Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba. Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros, Ltd., Bundaberg. Advanx Tyre & Motor
Service, 61 Sheridan Street, Cairns. Lawrence Motor
Company, Bolsover Street, Rockhampton. Corser &
Co. Pty. Ellena Street, Maryborough. Gympie
Machinery & Electrical Coy., Mary Street, Gympie.
Jas. Croker & Sons, Mackay.
VICTORIA: Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Macaulay Road, North Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd.,
sole concessionaires, 1 5 Ackland Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd.,
22 Stirling Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: C. C. Boag Batteries, 86 Bathurst Street,
Hobart; 224 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Allen Bros (Darwin) Pty.
Ltd., Darwin.


FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD
(ESTABLISHED 1921)
From July, 1953, to June, 1954, our Scouring, Carbonising and Combing factories in Australia and New
Zealand treated 35,000,000 lbs. of greasy nvool. Felt & Textiles of Australia Ltd. operate 33 large plants
throughout 5 States of Australia, the production from which includes the following nationally advertised wool
products:—
Plain, Marbled and Patterned FELTEX
Knight, Softees, Nielsen and Myrl Slippers
Centenary Worsted and Woollen Cloths
Trumade Suits for Men
Trumac and Duxbac Gabardine Overcoats
Eagle Suits for Boys
Sandhurst Sports Coats
B.A.C.M. Wilton and Axminsfer Body and
Broadloom Carpet, Carpet Squares and Rugs
Other wool products manufactured by
Felt & Textiles of Australia Ltd. include—
%
Scoured Wool
Carbonised Wool
. «
Slipper Felts
Millinery and Dress Felts
Tailors' Padding
Saddle Felts
Motor Car Felts
Engineering Felts
Wool Tops
F E
L T & TEX
Registered Office
TILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD,
Feltex House, 261 George Street, Sydney. 8U4071
Spectacular Advances Over 40 Years
SHEEP-HEALTH RESEARCH
By W. L. HINDMARSH
Australians are aware
of the importance of the
sheep-industry, but not
many outside a specialised
field realise how much the
sheep - owner and Australia —
and, indeed, the world —owe to
scientists trained in Australian
universities and working in
Australian laboratories and
research-stations. Entirely new
concepts of disease-causation
have been the result of Aus-
tralian research.
As it happened, though, the
first notable contribution to our
knowledge of disease-control
was made by two men who had
not had any university or other
academic scientific training.
Their work was done at a time
when losses from anthrax were
so serious that some graziers,
with no culling at all, found it
difficult to maintain stock-
numbers. The two men were
John McGarvie Smith and John
Gunn.
John McGarvie Smith, a
watchmaker who was interested
in mineralogy, became recognised
as an authority on the treatment
of ores. His - interests were
catholic; among other things,
he produced snake-venom
antisera. This work brought
him into contact with some
Pasteur Institute scientists who
were demonstrating the use of
the anthrax-vaccine which had
been discovered by Dr. Pasteur.
He then became interested in
the bacteriology of anthrax.
When the French scientists
returned home the graziers were
in difficulties; knowing that
vaccine could protect their
sheep, but also knowing that
they could not get it.
At this point McGarvie
Smith and John Gunn stepped
into the breach. Gunn was a
grazier on whose property early
trials with the Pasteur vaccine
were conducted, and he, too,
had taken up the study of
anthrax bacilli. Gunn and
McGarvie Smith each indepen-
dently produced an effective
anthrax-vaccine. They went
into partnership and turned out
many millions of doses of their
product. When Gunn died,
McGarvie Smith carried on
under his own name.
Unlike the French vaccine,
McGarvie Smith vaccine could
be given in one dose, and would
keep for long periods. The first
single-dose spore-vaccine ever
made, it is still used and still
commands an export-market.
McGarvie Smith kept his
method a close secret, but before
his death he gave the secret to
the N.S.W. Government, in trust
for pastoralists. The McGarvie
Smith Institute was incorporated
by Act of Parliament to safe-
guard the secret and to make
vaccine.
During the last 20 years or so,
as a result of this gift, over
£82,000 has been given as sub-
sidies for veterinary-research
and -education. This has been
from the profits of the sale of
the vaccine, mainly to overseas
countries. The vaccine has
been so effective that anthrax
is no longer regarded as a major
source of loss in Australia.
There was then a lapse of
many years before much effec-
tive research work was done in
the investigation of animal-
disease: largely because none of
the States had established
laboratories for veterinary work,
and the Federal Government,
up to this time, had created no
animal-health section. For the
administration of its own
animal-legislation it depended
entirely on the State veterinary
organisations.
Renewed interest in the inves-
tigation of stock-ailments was
first shown at the university
veterinary - schools of Mel-
bourne and Sydney. In 1910
Dr. J. Gilruth commenced
inquiry into the cause of the
so-called “Braxy-like”-disease of
sheep, but before much progress
was made the 1914-18 war inter-
vened and the research ceased.
Dr. Sydney Dodd, of the
Sydney Veterinary School, set
out to ascertain the cause of
black-disease of sheep, a source
of much loss on the Tablelands.
It was estimated at the time that
annual losses were in the vicinity
of £1 million. In today’s
currency this would probably
mean £5 million or more,
Dodd was able to prove that
the disease was the result of
invasion of the liver by a large
bacillus, and he associated the
onset of black-disease with the
early invasion of the liver by
fluke. He believed that the
disease would eventually be pre-
vented by vaccination, but was
not successful in making a satis-
factory vaccine,
Albiston, of Victoria, next
( Continued on next page)
Healthy as care can make them! Stud Merino rams pictured by the Australian National
Publicity Association.


“a very
valuable asset
to the man on the land”
PBFIS4/33/S4
$1
m
Photograph
shows interior
of
Mr. Rowston’s
“ Cyclone ” Shearing
shed.
Mr. Les Rowston, of “Cadara,” Cowra, N.S.W., writes:
“In regard to the “Cyclone” 2 Stand shearing shed
which I purchased from you, I wish to advise that I
have now used the shed for shearing and crutching and
have found the layout and design excellent. This shed
appears to me to be a century-lasting job, and I am
very happy with the fact that it should be free from
lice and vermin.
The shed is erected 7 miles from Cowra on the Sydney
Road on my Cadara property, and anyone interested is
welcome to make an inspection of same.
I consider this “Cyclone” type of shearing shed to be
a very valuable asset to the man on the land.”
mm s
TUBULAR
STEEL
'to erect no
skilled labour needed.
if Practically no main-
tenance costs.
SHEARING SHEDS
it Supplied complete with
interior fittings.
it Highly resistant to fire
and white ants. •
★ AVAILABLE
IN A BIG RANGE
OF SIZES AND
TYPES
For full particulars of “ CYCLONE ” shearing sheds and
other tubular building frames
write, phone or call
CYCLONE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.,
Morley Avenue, Rosebery, N>S.W., ’Phone MU 1431,
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Townsville.
Makers of the famous “Cyclone” gates and Ringlock fences.
Younghusband
Limited
STOCK AND STATION AGENT
Buyers and sellers are invited to consult our
STUD STOCK DEPARTMENT
for the selection or sale of stock.
Fat and Store Stock Sales held at Newmarket by
L. A. FAIRBAIRN & CO.
Incorporated in Younghusband Limited,
Registered Office: 137 WILLIAM ST., MELBOURNE.
YOUNGHUSBAND LIMITED
Registered Office: 94-96 KING ST., MELBOURNE.
Branches at Sydney and throughout Victoria and Riverma.
studied black-disease; he con-
firmed Dodd’s work, and sug-
gested the correct identity of
the germ. Turner more-or-less
completed the picture, working
under the aegis of the C.5.1.R.0.
He made a masterly study of
the way in which the disease was
produced, and introduced an
effective vaccine.
As a result of these researches,
black-disease is no longer a
serious problem. Vaccination
and fluke-control have provided
the answer. This work was
reported upon in scientific
literature. It found application
in other countries in which
black-disease occurred, and it
explained mortalities which had
previously been obscure.
The next outstanding piece of
work was the elucidation of the
causation of what is now known
as infectious-enterotoxaemia of
sheep. At the time the investiga-
tions began it was called a
variety of names, such as
pulpy-kidney-disease, plethoric-
toxaemia, fodder-crop mortali-
ties and, in Western Australia,
Beverley - disease. It was
responsible for the death of
many prime lambs and sheep.
Until the research of Dr.
Bennetts, of Western Australia,
nothing could be done to ward-
off losses except to give the
sheep exercise and put them on
barer pastures. Bennett’s experi-
ments proved that the disease
was due to the rapid multiplica-
tion of certain bacteria in the
bowel of sheep, and the absorpl-
- of their poison into the
bloodstream.
He named it infectious-
enterotoxaemia, and it is com-
monly known today as E.T.
While vaccination is not so
dependable as with some other
infections, it is very useful, and
E.T.-vaccination is the most
widely-used protective injection
given to sheep in Australia.
As with black-disease, the
publication of Bennett’s work
led to the recognition of the
disease in other lands, and the
methods of control he recom-
mended were adopted elsewhere.
It would be impossible to deal
in detail with all the experi-
mental work into bacterial dis-
eases : blackleg, at one time
regarded as a cattle-disease, has
been proved to occur in sheep
(which can be protected by
vaccine); botulism, caused by
sheep eating infected forage or
bones and carrion, has been
proved to be due to bacterial
poisons in the infected diet.
Scabby-mouth is important in
itself, as a serious source of loss
in lambs, and is also a bugbear
because of industrial disputes
with shearers who fear personal
infection. Proved to be the
result of virus-infection, scabby-
mouth can now be prevented by
vaccination.
We cannot pass without refer-
ence to the investigations of
Beveridge into footrot of sheep.
Some success had been obtained
at times in the control of this
disease by foot-baths, but, as the
actual cause was not known, it
was impossible to lay down any
reliable method of prevention
and treatment. Beveridge’s
experiments involved much
tedious and time - consuming
work before he was able to.
This and the wool-heaps on the opposite page are two more
Falkiner snaps. Here show-pieces are displayed at last year’s
Wool Convention, New Mexico.
identify the germ which caused
footrot: but his research has
placed in our hands a method of
control which, if conscientiously
observed by the grazier, will rid
a property of the infection.
In a different field of activity,
a triumph was scored in the
development of methods of
protecting sheep from blowfly-
infestation. Early work, directed
almost entirely to a survey of
the blowflies which deposited
their larvae on sheep, did not
yield any very useful results.
It was not until a study was
made of sheep and of the
reasons why they became attrac-
tive to the fly that any real
progress was made. Careful
detailed observations by Bel-
schner, Seddon and Mulhearn
showed that in the conformation
of the breech-area lay the secret
of predisposition to fly-strike.
The more folds and wrinkles,
the more the likelihood to fly-
strike..
These men graded sheep into
classes of susceptibility and
carried out tests to prove that
the degree of strike was in
accordance with their classifica-
tion. This proved to be the key,
and opened the way to later
research. '
In South Australia a farmer,
J. H. W. Mules, introduced the
idea of removing the wrinkles
from the crutch of sheep by
cutting them off, in this way pro-
ducing a plain-breeched animal
less likely to be struck. This
became known as the Mules-
operation. Research by
C.5.1.R.0. officers indicated that
a more radical operation could
be successfully carried out, and
that sheep subjected to this
suffered very little from fly-
strike of the breech-area.
“Mulesing” is now performed
in all Merino-breeding areas and
is the recognised answer to fly-
strike. Since the susceptibility
of wrinkly sheep to strike has
been demonstrated, there has
been a marked swing to the
breeding of sheep with fewer
wrinkles.
Belschner conducted extensive
inquiry into “body-strike” and
found that, although it was not
possible to classify sheep into
susceptible and non-susceptible
groups, as had been done with
breech-strike, conformation and
wool-quality played a big part
in determining the attractiveness
for the fly.
The insecticides D.D.T. and
B.H.C. have been found useful
in protecting sheep; more
recently, investigations have
proved that aldrin and dieldrin
give much better and longer
protection.
With the great improvement
in health which followed the
successful research into bacterial
disease, there came into promin-
ence other conditions calling for
investigation. In South Aus-
tralia and Western Australia
were diseases which for a long
time challenged the ingenuity of
scientists. These were known as
enzootic-marasmus, enzootic-
ataxia and coast-disease.
“Ataxia” merely means
inability to co-ordinate move-
ment, and is evidenced by
staggering gait and signs of
paralysis. “Marasmus” means
wasting and emaciation. In the
solution of the problems pre-
sented by these diseases there
was given to the world an
explanation for similar types of
disease which had hitherto defied
all efforts to solve their secrets.
They are due to what are
now known as trace-element
deficiencies. Only tiny amounts
of the essential elements are
necessary to ensure health, but
the total absence of them from


* TUB TEST THEM
Prove for yourself that
Bell’s all-wool socks won’t shrink !
'RftMFORC.EO
roe
m
H££L
ft£fMFoxeev\
Belt's
ALL WOOL SOCKS
They are made absolutely shrinkproof by the
famous ‘Belsulised’ process. “Tub-test them
and see for yourself just how they retain their
soft texture and perfect fit. Smart patterns in
all the wanted shades !
BE KIND TO YOUR FEET —• WEAR WOOL I
tsss|
.
fe...
V :
l
t*?
2fiy®
fus“
ms
For your next suit • • •
... you’ll find Crusader cloth is better. Your new suit
is going to cost you good money, so make sure you are
getting the best cloth. And Crusader is best the
result of over forty years experience in weaving fine,
woollen fabrics. x
I’ve just been looking through Crusader’s new 1955-56
range, and you can take it from me, it’s the most attrac-
tive selection of modern suitings I’ve ever seen. In
fact, this range is as good as the world’s best.
You can always depend on Crusader, because the
Crusader Mills guarantee their cloth. They guarantee
that only pure Australian merino fleece wool is used
in the weaving. They guarantee that no synthetics or
substitutes of any kind are added. They guarantee that
Crusader cloth will give years
of hard wear. And they
guarantee it will never fade
or shrink.
What more do you want?
The smartest suit in town? If
you use Crusader, that is
what you’ll have. So ask
your tailor to show you the
new Crusader Pattern Book,
and you’ll see what I mean.
m
Special
Selection.
DOUBLE WARP
DOUBcJEWEFT
(frusaflet
SuJXZrxGs
fmsader Cloth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
C 6.113
How they put their wool, bagged and loose, on sale in
Argentina. The Buenos Aires store where this is showing
covers 25 acres.
the regular diet leads to sick-
ness and death.
Thus, animals may be grazed
upon what appears to be a
beautiful pasture, but because of
the lack of one or other or both
minerals, stock sicken and die.
In marasmus the missing ele-.
ment was cobalt; in ataxia it
was copper ; in coast-disease the
soil was deficient in both.
In Western Australia, where
copper- and cobalt-deficiencies
were present as separate entities,
the addition of the required
minerals to the diet entirely pre-
vented the serious losses that
had been taking place.
In South Australia there were
large areas of land which, on
experience, had been classed as
totally unfit for stock-raising or
woolgrowing. In many cases
settlers had walked off their
holdings, believing it hopeless to
make them pay. Now this same
land has become productive ; it
responds to pasture-improve-
ment practices, and stock can
be raised and carried at a profit,
provided the small amounts of
copper and cobaft are supplied,
either directly to the animals, or
as top-dressing of the pastures.
Observations in other States
have indicated that copper- and
cobalt-deficiency occurs there
also, but by no means to the
same extent as in W.A. and S.A.
Many other nutritional studies
have been made. Excellent
results have followed the asso-
ciation of agronomists, chemists
and veterinarians in the explora-
tion of losses due to diet-
deficiencies. An excellent
example is the work done at the
Shannon Vale Sheep Nutrition
Station, near Glen Innes
(N.S.W.). .
On the poor granite-soils of
the eastern slopes, sheep suffer
from nutritional anaemia in the
winter months. In severe
winters as many as 30 per cent,
of a flock have died in an
emaciated condition ; there was
so little nutriment in the frost-
bitten winter - pasture. By
pasture-improvement and worm-
parasite control, not only did
sheep not suffer this high
mortality-rate but they throve.
On properties. where previously
sheep v r ould not live the wool-
production was more than
trebled, and where sheep once
could not be bred fat-lambs can
now be raised. A similar story
could be told of many other
sitnilar. projects.
One of the difficult tasks
undertaken by veterinary and
associated research-workers has
been the investigation of
jaundice in sheep. A number of
diseases were included in the
farmers’ term “yellows.” One of
these was the result of the
sensitisation of the skin to the
sun’s rays when the sheep had
'been feeding upon immature
and rapidly - growing grasses.
Another was attributed to the
eating of a poisonous lilylike
plant; but this was not proved.
The most important of the
conditions was one called
toxaemic - jaundice. A vast
amount of research was done
by a team composed of officers
of the C.5.1.R.0. and the N.S.W.
Department of ■ Agriculture
before it was found that
toxaemic-jaundice actually com-
prised two different diseases:
one due to the slow accumula-
tion of copper in the liver and
the other to liver-damage caused
by poisons in the plant “helio-
trope,” which, in certain seasons,
dominated pastures.
This work is still proceeding in
the effort to find some way of
limiting the intake of copper,
which is present in high amounts
in some plants.
The infertility of sheep asso-
ciated with feeding on' a pure,
or almost-pure, sward of sub-
terranean-clover is one of the
more spectacular problems that
came up for solution. In
Western Australia, ewes
developed everted uteri and
failed to breed, and wethers
were found with well-developed
udders which produced milk.
It was some time before it
was discovered that the sub.-
clover contained a substance
which acted like a sex-hormone
and by its overstimulation of the
•sexual systems of the female and
the castrate caused these strange
phenomena.
Once the cause was deter-
mined it was only a matter of
ensuring that sheep had some-
thing more than sub.-clover to
eat; but, unfortunately, the
ewes rendered sterile did not
regain their ability to breed.
A crying need was met when,
with the aid of a £ 16,000-
subsidy from the McGarvie
Smith Institute, the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture set
up a nutrition-research wing at
the Glenfield Veterinary
Research Station. Here Dr.
G. L. McClymont and his staff
concentrated on the investigation
of what are known as metabolic
diseases —diseases due to the
deranged functioning of body
organs.
One of the first problems
attacked was pregnancy-toxaemia
of sheep (twin-lamb-disease). In
this investigation use was made
of the hormone-preparations
cortisone and ACTH, which
have proved so useful in the
treatment of human sickness.
McClymont and his team found
that the disease was due to what
is called hypoglycaemia, and is
caused by restriction of diet in
the later stages of pregnancy.
It has, of course, been long
known that twin-lamb-disease
was associated with a declining
plane of nutrition of pregnant
ewes. Provided treatment is
given in the early stages, before
irreparable damage has been'
done to the nervous system,
repeated daily doses of glycerol,
by mouth, will save many sheep.
Knowledge of the cause of the
disease and its response to
treatment is a big step forward.
Research is continuing, to bring
the results into form of applica-
tion suited to graziers.
At Glenfield, too, there is in
progress, in collaboration with
Dr. Franklin, of C.5.1.R.0.,
research into drought-feeding
which has already produced
valuable data on rations and
feeding-methods.
A review of the work done
over nearly 40 years must, in
the nature of things, be some-
what scrappy when confined to
the space of a single article. It
is hoped that what has been
written will give some impres-
sion of the intense activity
behind the many research-
programmes ; or, if this is too
ambitious, some indication of
the very considerable successes.


From the Sheep's Back... to yours
Australia is the world’s largest wool-producer; of the world’s total
Merino-clip alone, over 64 per cent, is grown on this country’s
sheeplands. Each year wool from 125 million sheep is transported
to the city woolbrokers for sale. The average Australian sheep’s
fleece (illustrated right) gives annually the equivalent of one and a
half suit-lengths.
Prior to a day’s sale, woolbuyers (left) from all over the world inspect and
classify bales of wool to be auctioned later that day at the selling-centres (above).
The greater part of the wool-clip of Australia’s 100,000 woolgrowers is sold
annually through these city auction-rooms.
Australian worsted-cloth manufacturers also compete
for the wool. On arrival at a manufacturer’s mill
the wool is sorted for quality and then washed or
“scoured” (left). A car ding-machine (above) then
opens-up the tangled fibres, removes burr and grass-
seed, and lays the fibres parallel with each other.
The wool emerges in a gauze-like form (left). It is now known as a carded
“sliver.” The slivers are then combed (above) to straighten the long fibres and
comb out all fibres under a certain length. A process of drawing then reduces
the sliver to a “roving” (left inset), a more convenient form for spinning into yarn.


Spinning (right) is the final process in the conversion of wool
into yarn. The roving is first drawn out in length to the
required thickness of the desired yarn. Twist is effected as the
yarn passes to the spinning-bobbin on which it is wound. After
spinning, yarns are twisted wgether ( right inset ) in two or more
ply to give strength and color-effects. The resultant worsted
threads are now ready for warping. Cloth is constructed of
warp- and weft-threads (above).
On the loom (above) the warp-threads run off the roller in parallel. Each warp-
thread can be lifted or depressed as desired. Through the resultant “shed” a
shuttle carries a weft-thread back and forth at right-angles to the warp as the
warp-threads rise and fall, resulting in the interlacing of the threads and the
forming of the woven cloth.
The threads running lengthwise are the warp. The warp-threads are first wound
in sections on a large cylindrical frame (left) and, when the required number
of threads are on the frame, the warp is then transferred to a beam-roller
(aboye) at the rear of the frame, to be placed, when required, at the back of
the weaving-loom.
The pieces of cloth, after the mending of flaws, further scouring and con-
sequent shrinking (left) and dyeing, are subjected to many other “finishing”
processes, including steaming under pressure to fix the cloth at its natural width
and impart a lustre to the surface. The cloth (above) is now ready for the
tailor. Photographs of the process of manufacture in this series were taken at
the Australian Woollen Mills, Sydney.


none better in the world!
GOLDEN FLEECE & KOOKABURRA
famous underwear
for over 50 years
GUARANTEED
UNSHRINKABLE
m
X
m
now comes to yoi
fresh as a daisy
in this MOTHPROOF
plastic bag
/
GOLDEN FLEECE AND KOOKABURRA UNDERWEAR IS AVAILABLE IN STYLES
AND SIZES TO FIT EVERYONE.
Golden Fleece Pore Wool
Mediumweight:
Vests 34 to 48, from 35/11.
Trousers 34 to 48, from 39/11.
Heavyweight:
Vests 34 to 48, from 49/11.
Trousers 34 to 48, from 54/6.
Kookaburra Wool and Cotton
Mediumweight:
Vests 34 to 48, from 25/11.
Trousers 34 to 48, from 32/6.
•
Heavyweight:
Vests 34 to 48, from 29/11.
Trousers 34 to # 48, from 35/11.
mm
as?
'fell nmin vii ii!i:»s i fei>
mlfflburra
51% WOOL, 49% COTTON
££€Ry*
:
7M
The model is wearing
the famous '6l4'
mediumweight underwear.
PRODUCT OF AUSTRALIAN
MADE FOR WOMEN & CHILDREN TOO
KNITTING MILLS
k LIMITED
Here to Find Out
U.S. Wool Expert
(An Interview)
Alexander johnstok
professor and wool
specialist at the University
of Wyoming, talks with a
Scottish burr. Not altogether
surprising, considering the
tenacity of Scottish speech—and
that he was born in Glasgow,
1904.
He studied wool at West of
Scotland Agricultural College,
an offshoot of Glasgow Uni-
versity, and went to the United
States in 1926.
The University of Wyoming,
7000 ft. above sea-level, in the
Rockies (“cold, dry very
healthy for sheep,” Johnston
comments), has a famous Wool
Department; the oldest in
western U.S. Since he found his
feet in America Johnston has
been mixed up with wool: at
the University of Wyoming; as
Animal Fibre Technologist with
the Bureau of Animal Industry,
U.S. Department of Agriculture,
1936-37; back to Wyoming;
and, from 1943 to 1945, chief
of the wool division of War
Food Administration.
He’s out here on a Fulbright
Scholarship to study “all phases
of [wool] production, especially
preparation and selling.”
“Yes,” he said when asked if
by preparation he meant
classing.
The Buixetin man remarked
that Mac Falkiner (who, as he
mentions in his article “Merinos
in America,” met Professor
Johnston in the U.S.) had quoted
him,on the superiority of Aus-
tralian methods of classing and
marketing wool. Were these his
considered opinions?
“Yes, definitely. Without any
hesitation at all. You have the
best wool - preparation and
-selling system in the world.”
What, precisely, did Professor
Johnston intend to do here?
To see everything possible con-
cerning wool. Particularly the
properties. Sit down with the
breeders, talk over at leisure . .
Why do you do that? . . And
that? . . . Switch sheep from
one paddock to another; this
grass—what is its effect on the
sheep, at this time of year?
Leaning back, the professor
smiled: “All that sort of thing—
questions you have to ask on
the spot.”
Professor Johnston’s views on
methods of improving the U.S.
clip being known (scientific
Woolly Americans, stall-feeding. Snapped by Mac Falkiner in
the U.S.
classing and public auctions),
what did he think the possibilities
for expansion were in the United
States? Given the conditions,
was a big expansion of fine-wool-
growing likely?
Well, to appreciate that aspect,
it was a good idea to get a clear
picture of conditions there.
Wool is a sideline in the United
States. Only 30 to 35 per cent,
of the growers’ total net-return
(from sheep) came from wool.
Therefore farmers concentrate
on body, size, conformation.
The important thing was the
return from the lambs. Improve-
ment of wool was important,
too. But, taking everything into
consideration —the established
tendency, markets, demand—
that improvement would prob-
ably take the form of breeding
a uniform type of sheep with
better wool, combined with the
large-frame and other qualities
of a good muttomsheep.
Was this possible? To inter-
viewer it seemed like going back
to ideas tried, and rejected, in
our own pastoral history.
Well, the Germans had
developed an animal called the
Mele —sometimes referred to as
the “mutton-Merino” —and had
reached a relatively high level of
wool and mutton. Wool, 60’s to
70’s, with a very superior carcass.
Professor Johnston didn’t like
the idea of making comments on
the Australian wool-industry.
He made that plain from the
start.
It must be understood, Pro-
fessor Johnston insisted, that any
comments he might make were
based on incomplete data ; parts,
not the whole. An assurance
was given that this would be
made clear to the reader;
crystal-clear.
On this basis the interview
continued. And —as became
clearer as minutes passed—the
professor did know something
about Australian wool. He has
handled it over a good many
years; and, in 25 years, the
character and length of Aus-
tralian wool has improved “very
markedly.”
In seven weeks he has managed
to see quite a lot. Among other
observing, he has (as interviewer
was told later, by a senior
member of the staff) spent a lot
of time on the wool-tables at
Forbes - street, Darlinghurst,
where the Wool Department of
the Sydney Technical College
and the Wool School of the
newly established University of
Technology dwell together in a
mysteriously intertwined rela-
tionship, in one of those odd
oval-fronted stone buildings
surrounded by the thick walls of
the old Darlinghurst jail. A
wool-expert can pick up quite
a bit of information, doing
that . . .
So back to the “mutton-
Merinos,” and whatever impli-
cations they may have, here or
overseas. Not much about
“here,” but a little: “At some
time, looking well ahead, with
development of transport, ship-
ping all-round development,
but particularly of transport —
I think you will be thinking along
those lines. If Australians can
keep the superior character of
their wool, with development of
the carcass ...” We would
have something really
remarkable.
With development, too, of
pastures. Professor Johnston
had recently seen improved-
pasture in some parts of N.S.W.,
including around Dubbo. Mind,
he qualified, he had seen them
after good rain ; what the pasture
would look like under different
conditions, he couldn’t say. But
he thought at the time—he
couldn’t escape the thought—
that here, with the other factors
such as transport, was some-
thing capable of expanding the
sheep'-industry enormously.
Against that, he had been told
the limiting factor in many parts
of Australia was water. He
hadn’t seen an Australian
drought.
Another thing: On his last
trip to Goulburn he had seen
motor-transport for sheep. He
described this. Here, then, he
was inclined to think, was some-
thing with big possibilities for
the future.
It led to a discussion on this
method of transport, and then
to sheepfnen who used it. A
good many Australian sheepmen
will make Professor Johnston’s
acquaintance before he goes back
to the United States.
The future for Australian
wool? He thought the United
States would always be a good
customer for it.
What about tariff-barriers?
And demands by American
woolgrowers that the tariff on
wool be raised?
It wasn’t within his province
to comment on that. But he
would put it this way: in his
opinion—his private opinion—
the Administration was likely to
be more interested in foreign
trade than in tariffs. For
instance: before World War 11,
15 per cent, of the U.S. national
income came from foreign trade.
The figure now, only 7 per cent.
On the basis of these proportions
a U.S. Administration would be
interested in foreign trade.
Asked for any further com-
ments, Professor Johnston
he had visited several stud-flocks
—“I won’t say which studs” —
and had been “frankly amazed”
at the wool grown by stud-rams.
He had never imagined that* so
much wool could be grown on
the body of a sheep.
Apart from points mentioned
earlier, he was very much
impressed by the lustre —“No,
not lustre. That’s for English
and crossbred wools” —by the
color of Australian wool he had
seen.
When Professor Johnston
does feel that he is qualified to
speak at more length on the
Australian wool-industry, what
he has to say should be well
worth hearing.


\\
%
*ai 5
.yVUAA.
A^©
K/
wf
«i
7
f/JVylon )
S
WWSm
m
I w
W
Envy from
Nylon? Never!
J UST admiration and sincere congratulations to wool
on its 150th anniversary in Australia. After all, wool has so much
to offer .. . it’s WONDERFUL .. . always has been has
always will be*. . . BUT wool 'PLUS a-relatively smalF percentage
of nylon becomes quite astonishing* imits added versatility.
Nylon weaves a touch of magic into wool . . . makes it harder
wearing . . . permanently pleatable, absolutely unbeatable
as an all-season fabric. For any occasion . . . there is nothing to
touch wool . . . with nylon. See what we’re driving at?
Nylon can make fine woollens . . . finer! You gain
so much from so little.
If you want t'o know more about Nylon,
write to BRITISH NYLON SPINNERS
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., 90 Queen
Street, Melbourne. C. 1. Technical
information will be supplied gladly.
Prospects and Contrasts
Merinos
in America
By MAC FALKINER
MOST Australians would
not think of South
American countries in
■ terms of sheep. Cattle,
yes—chilled beef from Argen-
tina ; bullocks belly-deep fn lush
pasture.
The woolgrower, accustomed
to reading details of overseas
trade in agents’ reports, has a
better idea of the general outline
of primary products in other
lands. But even well-informed
woolgrowers would, I think, find
things to surprise them on a visit
to Argentina, Uruguay, South
Brazil. Preconceived ideas sel-
dom tally with what one sees
for oneself.
The occasion for my own visit
was an invitation to judge at the
Buenos Aires Sheep Show;
August, 1953: the same month
I judged the Merino sections at
the Montevideo Sheep Show. In
all, I made an extensive tour of
stock-raising parts of Argentina,
Uruguay and South Brazil, and
went on to see something of
sheep-raising in the U.S.A.
Sheep, of course, are nothing
new in South America. The first
fine-wool imported into Europe,
in 1660, came from the River
Plate. In 1895, when Australia
had 90y million sheep, Argentina
had about 74 million. Excluding
Russia, Argentina is the second-
largest wool-producing country
in the world.
The present sheep-population
of Argentina is 44 million, of
which something over six mil-
lion are known as “Australian
Merino.” The quality of some
of these Merino flocks would
surprise the average Australian
breeder. In many of the better
flocks the wool is finer, and
more even, than in the majority
of Australian fine-wool flocks.
Emphasis is on fine-wool rather
than on the appearance of the
sheep.
Yield of clean wool is 15 per
cent, to 20 per cent, lower in
Argentina ..than in Australia, but
this is mainly due to lack of
know-how in grazing and
general management of sheep.
Another factor is scab —a
terrific problem in sheep-raising
in South America, and particu-
larly so with fine-wools.
Winning pen of three Merino rams, Buenos Aires.
The problem, however, is
being mitigated by the widei
knowledge and use of mod-
em dips, which control the
trouble with less knocking-about
of the sheep. With modern dips,
sheep now need dipping only
once a year: before, they had
to be dipped every three months.
In temperatures sometimes be-
low zero, and often with very
little feed, one can imagine the
effect on the sheep of sush fre-
quent dipping.
Therefore, I think, we can
expect a big increase in fine-
wool in all the South American
countries hitherto affected by
scab, through the wide use of
modern dips.
There are other factors as
well; but the increase, if it
comes, will be accelerated by
artificial - insemination. The
technique of artificial-insemina-
tion is pretty well understood in
South America. So we should
be prepared for a sudden im-
provement in the proportion of
fine-wool to other sheep, beyond
what might be expected under
conditions of normal mating.
Sheep-run in the Argentine.
The question arises: Would
this be a good thing—from an
Australian point of view? I
think it would. Increased pro-
duction of fine-wool, not only in
Australia but in the world,
would tend to stabilise wool-
prices. When our national
economy ceases to jump up and
down by hundreds of millions
our economy will be firmer,
sounder, and we will be able to
plan ahead with more confi-
dence.
Another factor to be taken
into account in any considera-
tion of the present and future of
wool in South America is the
almost complete absence of any
form of pasture-improvement.
I know this doesn’t square
with generally accepted ideas —
those photographs one has seen
of rolling-fat steers standing
deep in alfalfa. But some of
the photographs could have
been taken in fields of young
wheat.
Apart from a few Government
experiment-stations (mainly in
Uruguay and South Brazil), I saw
no evidence of pasture-improve-
ment. The truth of the matter
is that South Americans have
drawn heavily on the bank of
fertility in naturally rich land,
and haven’t put anything back.
Well, they’re not the only ones.
In South America the whole
picture is complicated by social
and economic causes and effects
—the general Latin American
system of a near-feudal land
economy, absentee-owners and
later reactions and resentments.
Argentina, for instance, had
been drawing on the fertility of
her soil at a great rate. Her
economy was based almost
wholly on the export of food,
and when she felt the pinch there
was considerable social unrest.
The reaction, as it generally is
in South America, was political.
This is not altogether straying
from the subject: it is impos-
sible to separate the general pat-
tern of events in South Ameri-
can countries from the future of
a specific industry. And, since
the future of fine-wool in other
parts of the world has dynamic
possibilities for Australian wool-
growers—and hence for Aus-
tralia—the whole seems to
demand some passing examina-
tion.
The present regime in Argen-
tina made a drive for indus-
trialisation, based, it would
seem, on the example of the
U.S.A., but without the same
resources: no great internal
sources of raw materials for
industrial development, no con-
siderable liquid capital. Primary
products were the wealth of the
country, and exports of these
provided purchasing-power. The
attempt to make the primary
industries pay for industrialisa-
tion led to controls: fixed prices
paid by the Government to the
producer, and the products sold
abroad by the Government at as
high a price as could be
obtained the Government
keeping the difference. In 1952
Argentina, the greatest exporter
of meat in the world and one of
the great wheat-producers, was
importing wheat and had two
meatless days a week in order
to keep up her exports.
The general condition of agri-
culture and stock-raising in
Argentina, then, must be seen
against this background. In the
province of Buenos Aires, which
carries 20 million sheep and over
20 million cattle, plus most of
{Continued on next page )


that air of distinction
%.4m
illlimmmi 2
$
m
mk ■
1
/
m
m
I
n
t
m
w
42szr' \
wUJ
11
&l.
* U
mm.
m
i&«t
m
mm
i- w
*4l*
SR! ■ ,
/38
rji -Mat ;i:t:
Sri .
’
*2l
H
;r ' -\; ' ZZ~?.
* ■* > * J* *
mm.
llliiT^’Sdr
&
7
A distinguished looking suit is the result of fine tailoring from
quality materials. That’s why Globe quality worsteds have
always been part of the tailor’s finest creations.
They’re available in an extensive range of light, medium and
heavyweight suitings, in the latest patterns and colours.
Ask for Globe brand—it’s your guarantee of quality .. .
styling . . . lasting service.
GLOBE
quality
worsteds
GLOBE WORSTEO MILLS PTY. LTD. Offices and Weaving Mills: Barclay St.,
Marrickville, N.S.W. Combing and Spinning Mills: Gordon St., Marrickville, N.S.W.
BIRT
AND
COMPANY
(PTY.) LIMITED,
No. 4 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: 80529 (15 lines)
Box 544, G.P.O.
Also at
64 EAGLE ST., BRISBANE
and PORT KEM?LA, N.S.W.
Shipping & Airways Agents
Cargo and Passenger Lines.
REGULAR SAILINGS BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA
and
UNITED KINGDOM
CONTINENT
MEDITTERANEAN
CHINA JAPAN
U.S.A.—EAST AND WEST
COASTS
CANADA—EAST AND WEST
COASTS
Taking Wool, General Cargo and
Refrigerated Cargo
Full particulars of Passenger Accommo-
dation and Fares will be sent on
application.
the country’s wheat and other
cereal crops, potatoes and the
like, no fertiliser of any sort was
being used when I was there.
But blood-and-bone was being
exported to Europe.
At the time I was there a
party of grasslands scientists, led
by Dr. Peter Sears, of New
Zealand, estimated that the pre-
sent carrying-capacity of the
Buenos Aires province could be
lifted fivefold by normal
methods of pasture-improve-
ment. So, one can see, the
potentialities are great.
And not only in Argentina.
Uruguay is roughly the size of
Victoria, and has about the same
sheep-population, between three
and five million cattle, and
enough wheat to feed a popula-
tion of three million. An annual
rainfall varying from between
33 and 42 inches, evenly distri-
buted throughout the year and
throughout the land, and rich
soil make Uruguay something of
a pastoralists’ paradise. It is
very suitable land for pasture-
improvement. Droughts are
practically unknown—what they
call droughts are usually caused
by overstocking. Uruguay has
a uniform climate, green-feed
all the year round —in fact, just
about everything, including a
comparatively stable Govern-
ment.
The most progressive Merino-
breeders in South America are
in Uruguay. A party of them
visited Australia just after the
late war and, I believe, the
improvement since then has been
most impressive.
There are, at present, under a
million Merinos in Uruguay;
but this number will increase
rapidly. Worth noting that
South Americans are expert in
the technique of artificial-
insemination. The trend is very
definitely towards Merinos in
that country.
Incidentally, the badge of the
Uruguayan Merino Society is a
Merino head copied from an
Australian shilling.
I was present at a meeting
when a high official of the World
Bank gave his considered
opinion that Brazil had
the greatest economic
potentialities of any coun-
try in the world. The
sheep-country is in South
Brazil: Rio Grande do
Sul, which borders Uru-
guay along the whole of
its northern frontier.
This, too, is ideal sheep-
and cattle-country. When
I was there I was told they
had a drought. But they
had 12in. of rain in the
winter months. The
trouble was overstocking.
The same general re-
marks about pasture-
improvement apply to this
area as to Argentina and
Uruguay; and the same
potentialities exist. But
here I saw a private ex-
perimental - station on
which subterranean-clover
and Wimmera-rye were growing.
In the province of Rio Grande
do Sul about 10 million sheep
run, cutting an average of 51b. a
head, with less than 50 per cent,
clean yield. Uruguay, on the
other hand, probably has one of
the highest clean yields of any
country—no dust or vegetable
Argentina—these chaps are quick to learn new things
in sheep-handling.
fault. The same conditions
apply to Rio Grande do Sul.
But, until recently, the sheep
were very neglected.
The Government of this
province has introduced a sys-
tem which is the second-best
system of handling wool in the
world—the best is our own;
certainly theirs is the best system
in South America.
All wool is handled by co-
operative societies, who grade
it according to Australian
standards. It is then appraised
at the ruling Australian price,
plus freight. A report is sent to
each grower, pointing out faults
and suggesting improvements.
Elsewhere in South America the
grower is very much at the mercy
of the buyer. We owe a lot to
our open auctions.
In Uruguay buyers come
round and buy the wool in the
shed —bagged. This, oddly
enough, is the system in the U.S.
As Alexander Johnston, wool
specialist at the University of
Wyoming, whom I met, put it:
“U.S. woolgrowers are 50 years
behind growers in Australia,
New Zealand and South Africa.
Those countries have made a
science of wool-handling, while
here we’re still bundling fleeces
together, tossing everything into
the and using a large
fat man to tramp it down!”
It is the opinion of Johnston
—with which I heartily agree—•
that classing and public auctions
are needed to revitalise the U.S.
wool-industry. We might well
spare a thought for the future of
the U.S. woolgrower, since it
marches with our own, so far as
long-term prospects are con-
cerned. For the United States,
with a depressed fine-wool
industry, is the heart and matrix
of the gigantic synthetic-fibre
industry.
With the handling of wool in
such a primitive state in the
U.S.A., it is hardly surprising
that Latin American countries
are also backward, by our
standards, in this phase of the
industry. My point is that,
taking into account these disa-
bilities, the potentialities are
great. An undeveloped industry
implies the possibilities of
development.
But with the development of
other countries, it is important
not to forget what we owe to
our own standard of classing. I
quote a Boston woolbuyer,
Lawrence J. Ashworth :
“We can convert Australian
wools cheaper [than U.S. wool].
Australian wool-preparation is
far better than extremely care-
less U.S. methods. We’d like to
see domestic wool put up like
Australian, and the sooner we
get started on this the better it
will be for all.”
Wool-manufacturers whom I
• met in Brazil told me that it was
impossible to spin better than a
58 from domestic wool, and they
wished to import a large quantity
of fine-wool from Australia. But,
owing to currency difficulties,
they were forced to use fine
nylon-fibre instead. This is just
one of many instances where
lack of fine-wools is leading to
the use of artificial fibres to
supplement low-grade wools.
There is n,o doubt that the short-
age of wool, and its high price,
contributed largely to the
growth of the artificial-fibre
industry.
One can get a fair idea of the
best type of Merino in the major
South American wool-producing
countries from the accompany-
ing photographs. The rules of
the Merino societies in Argen-
tina and Uruguay, and the
smaller one in South Brazil,
concerning the stud-register are
much stricter than our own.
Only sheep bred within the
register find a place in the
register: it is not possible, under
the rules, to include high-grade
sheep from the general flock.
This, in my opinion, handicaps
the Merino in these countries.
I saw many excellent sheep in
general flocks, and poor ones in
studs.
There was no inspection of
show-sheep in Argentina, and
this has been bad for the
Merino, as it was in Australia
before the introduction of shear-
ing-regulations. To give an
idea: When I left Argentina in
September, 1953, sheep had not
been shorn for the 1954 Sheep
Show. When they were to be
shorn —or, rather, half-shorn —
nobody seemed to know. This
is not the case in Uruguay and
Brazil, where they have very
strict inspection - regulations,
carried out by officers of the
respective Agricultural Depart-
ments, accompanied by mem-
bers of the Merino Society.
In Uruguay and Brazil
Merino-breeders practise the (to
my way of thinking) only in-
destructible method of marking
—tattooing on the flank. They


MURRAWOMBIE
PURE KOONOONA (S.A.) BLOOD
Reg. No. 1044
§:
1 m : : 1
ii
sre m
MURRAWOMBIE 9.35, a strong wool 2|-year-old Stud Ram. He is by Special
Stud Sire Kl 2, who sired 5.2 winner of the strong wool ram championship at
Sydney in 1947.
Murrawombie rams carry bright, shafty fleeces, full of character, and possess an
inherent ability to “Breed on.”
YOUR CHOICE IS RIGHT WITH MURRAWOMBIE RAMS
MOXHAM BROS. MURRAWOMBIE
via Girilambone, N.S.W.
vip appearances
Australia Is in the wool business
in a big way. Her sheep population
is nearly one third of the world
total. But Australian sheep produce
almost two-thirds of the fine wools
which clothe the world.
Overseas textile manufacturers
want our wools. Last year, from
January to December, they bought
nearly £355,000,000 worth. - This
considerably exceeded the value of
all other exports combined.
The world is better dressed, and
Australia is better off because of
wool. The men who grow it have
faith in
SCHUTE BELL BADGERY LtfMBY LTD*
WOOL BROKERS
1 Bent Street, Sydney • And at Bombala, Uralla, Walgett
use a special type of tattoo, the
property of the society.
In South America generally,
and in Argentina particularly, as
is pretty well known, a good
deal of British capital has been
invested. There are British
managers of big concerns ; Aus-
tralians, such as Bulletin con-
tributor F. H. Finch, up in
Corrientes province (Argentina)
—Zebu ' country—and, until
recently, when Cholmondeley
returned to South Australia, the
three recognised experts on
sheep in South America were
Australians. I met “Carlos”
McKinnon, who went over
a good many years ago,
after experience in western
N.S.W., and Eric Dunlop, from
the Yass (N.S.W.) district, who,
to my mind, was the soundest
sheepman I met in South
America. Both McKinnon and
Dunlop are in Argentina.
I did a good deal of lecturing
in the countries I visited, and
found keen and appreciative
audiences. A bit too keen now
and then. The common South
American method of shearing
is to tie the sheep’s legs, then
take the wool off. Explaining
the Australian method, I was
urged to give a practical demon-
stration. In a good suit; and not
exactly in shearing condition.
I compromised by demonstrat-
ing without the machine.
But I did a lot of footrotting
—an operation about which
most of the sheepmen knew
nothing. On one occasion,
inspecting a sheep, I asked for
a knife—holding my hand out
for it, as one does, bending over
the sheep. The chap in the
photograph holding the ram
gave me one, razor-edged and
about the size of a sabre. For-
tunately the owner, an Argen-
tinean of Spanish blood, had a
penknife, so I was able to do the
job on the spot.
Later the owner told me that
the Indians, who had seen the
operation only once, were
expert at it. There are two
opinions concerning the ability
of these native herdsmen. Eng-
lishmen I met seemed to think
they were not capable of learn-
ing new techniques, but this was
not the opinion of the majority
of the Spanish landowners. Nor
was it my impression of them.
The question is important, be-
cause sheep-management, in the
final analysis, depends on the
man who handles the sheep.
So far as I can gather, South
America has today approxi-
mately the same number of
sheep as there are in Australia.
And this general area, of all the
countries I have visited, is the
one capable of a really tremen-
dous increase of sheep-numbers.
Whether the economy of wool
will permit this increase to take
place is outside my competence
to say. But I sincerely hope that
there will be at least a doubling
of the present numbers, and a
considerable improvement of the
quality of the wool.
On the hardy perennial of
the Merino embargo my per-
sonal summing-up of the posi-
tion is this: In South America,
on figures I recently saw, stud-
breeders of Argentina are mak-
ing large sums of money which
could come to this country.
They have ready markets in
neighboring countries. Their
top ram in 1954 sold for 72,000
pesos, which, dependent on ’the
rate of exchange settled on (by
that I mean official, semi-official,
or blackmarket), would vary
from over £6OOO to approxi-
mately £lOOO. But in a letter
I received the other day I was
informed that this price has
been topped: the later price
being 101,000 pesos.
I saw one-year-old flock-ewes
in Uruguay sold for £2OO sterl-
ing (£250 Australian) and many
for over £lOO. There is, in Aus-
tralia, a fear that the prices of
flock-rams would rise if the
embargo were lifted. But when
one studies the freight-costs, this
assumption will not hold water.
To give an example: To' take
a ram from Panama to Argen-
tina by air (the only really satis-
factory method of transporting
rams) costs approximately
£4OO. Buyers could only afford
to pay such freights for high-
priced animals. It would be
uneconomic for overseas buyers
to import flock-rams. Freight
would cost more than the
original price of the ram. But
there are many hundreds of
rams in Australia which, if the
embargo were lifted, would
bring their true value.
There is considerable resent-
ment of the embargo in other
woolgrowing countries. To
illustrate this point I can quote
a remark made to me at the
Californian Woolgrowers’ Con-
vention, November, 1953: “Why
shouldn’t the U.S. woolgrower
try to raise the tariff, when you
in Australia won’t do anything
to help us?”
At the time, U.S. woolgrowers
were asking the Government to
raise the tariff on wool to about
60 cents a lb., slightly in excess
of the 43| cents a lb. recom-
mended by the U.S. Tariff
Board. Only the personal inter-
vention of President Eisenhower
saved the day, from our point of
view.
Let’s look at what would have
happened if the American
grower had had his way; if
there had been a tariff of, say,
50 cents a lb. The existing tariff
is costing the American con-
sumer of woollen-goods 240
million dollars a year—l have
that figure from the president
of the Boston Wool-traders’
Association. Today wool is a
luxury fibre. What would it be
at double the tariff?
Many Australians will say
that the U.S. doesn’t buy a great
amount of Australian wool.
True, if you take into account
only direct purchases from Aus-
tralia. But what about the
indirect purchases? Australian
wool is used as currency by some
other countries, as a dollar-
earner.
The United States imports
over 70 per cent, of its wool-
requirements, and a large pro-
portion of that percentage
comes from Australia.
In 1952 the U.S.A. imported
232 million lb. of clean wool
from Commonwealth countries,
out of a total of 366 million lb.
of imports.
A raised import-duty in the
U.S.A. could, then, have very
serious consequences for us. The
personal attitude of President
Eisenhower largely determined
the iSsue last time. But it could
happen—with, for instance, a
change of Administration.
It is a disquieting experience
for an Australian woolgrower—
indeed, for any Australian who
stops to think how dependent our
economy is on wool-exports—
to stand in the huge Du Pont
works and see the latest synthetic
fibres pouring out, and the
quality of them. Wool is a
wonderful fibre ; but it is a very
expensive one. And —to be
thoroughly gloomy for a
moment —if our market for
wool goes, what have we to
take its place? Uranium? Per-
haps. Beef? Yes, up to a point,
with a number of qualifications,
which apply also to wheat. But,
in the short term, any consider-
able shrinkage of our market for
wool could be disastrous.
The answer, of course, lies in
increased production, lower
costs, improved techniques. One
cannot put the clock back. But
I have a strong impression that
if there had been 65 million good
wool-producing sheep in the
United States, instead of the pre-
sent paltry 27 million —on the
whole, poor wool-producers—
the synthetic - fibre industry
would not have reached its pre-
sent proportions. There would
not have been the necessity.
These are personal opinions,
firm convictions. The expres-
sion of them explains the
importance I personally attach
to any expansion of fine-wool
breeding in South American
countries.


OAJITIIIY
Established 1864 - Reg. Flock 79
>
■
m
mmmmmw
SPECIAL STUD AND STUD RAMS BEING OFFERED AT SYDNEY
• Approx. 120 Registered Merino Studs are using Uardry sires. Prices
paid at Sydney last year and 1953 included 1000 guineas, 1100 (twice),
1200, 1500, 2000 (twice) and 2600 guineas. In 1950 Uardry rams at
Sydney made to 3400 guineas (world’s record, since exceeded). Last
year 44 Uardry rams at Sydney averaged £4BO.
UARDRY, a great parent stud flock in the truest sense, is 30 miles east of Hay on
the north side of the ’Bidgee. Rainfall is 13 inches. Size and stamina are natural
characteristics, and high type Merino wool is bred into
them . . . Uardry sheep were the first to be called Peppin
Merinos . . . Throughout Australia and New Zealand
Uardry rams have won recognition ON THEIR MERIT.
MANAGER: Rowand Jameson
STUD CLASSER: H. Frank Pennefather
Apply Manager,
UARDRY, HAY, N.S.W.
OUR NATION’S PROSPERITY
-rarp«FSC
mmsmi
! ...„ iSv>
iHmi'l/ I
SHI
I
W
B
I
2^
cvji;
Telephone: CARRATHOOL 1
Telegrams: CARRATHOOL
The Bank plays its part
Ever since this bank was established in 1834, we have made
it our business to aid enterprising men in their activities.
We are proud of the part we have played in our service to
Australia’s industries —both primary and secondary—which have
enabled the people of this country to enjoy their substantial share
of the good things of life.
To those who wish to increase profitable production, we offer
the same traditional service—efficient, helpful, friendly—and the
benefit of our long experience.
At Head Office, or our branch nearest to you, our officers
will gladly give particulars of our service.
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD,
Geography
of
Australian Wool
By EDGAR FORD
/-| U STR ALT A has been the
r“ \ major wool - producing
f I country in the world for
well over half a century,
Today, with 17 per cent, of the
sheep, 28 per cent, of all wool,
over 60 per cent, of fine Merino
wools and nearly 50 per cent, of
the wool-exports, this country’s
position as leading wool-
General distribution of all types of sheep
producer and breeder of
Merino sheep is higher than ever
before.
The approximate general
pattern of sheep-distribution
follows closely on the climatic
pattern—Merino-wool mainly in
the drier areas and the crossbred
mainly in the wetter areas.
Wool-producers are mostly
Merinos, and make nearly 80
per cent, of the flocks. The
spinning-quality of the wool
varies with the type of Merino
raised in each area. On the
tablelands, with their cold
winters and rather wet climate,
the sheep are rather small and
produce a fine to superfine wool,
On the slopes, with more fertile
country and more abundant
grasses and much wheat-
stubble, the sheep are more
Some factors affecting and limiting sheep-raising
robust and produce a medium
type of wool.
The inland plains grow the
large-boned, strong sheep which
produce a stronger wool from a
fleece usually heavier than those
from the slopes and tablelands.
One map shows the wheat-and-
sheep areas; but there are really
two types of properties here:
Merino-properties and -studs,
where the high-grade natural
pastures are used to breed sheep
instead of growing wheat, and
flocks which are run on wheat-
farms as a supplementary source
of income and as part of a wheat-
pasture rotational type of farm-
ing (most of these are crossbred
fat-lambs which produce a fine
carcass at from 4\ to 6 months
on the sub.-clover and wimmera-
rye pastures sown with the
wheat). Merinos for wool are
also reared on the wheat-stubble
(as a supplementary feed to
natural pastures),
Fat sheep and lambs are
generally bred in the wetter
areas of the sheepbelt; Victoria
is the principal producer of this
type.
On some irrigated areas of the
M.I.A. and in the Murray-
Goulburn valleys, where fodder-
crops are grown and pastures
fully improved, densities as high
as 16 sheep to the acre are
reached. This, however, is an
exception under very favorable
circumstances,
On larger areas of improved-
pastures and sown-pastures
dependent on normal rainfall (as
in the N.S.W. southern table-
lands and slopes or in Victoria)
densities from two to eight sheep
to the acre are common.
The best of the natural
pastures throughout the wheat-
belt and adjoining slopes support
a sheep-population of about one
sheep to the acre,
Where the rainfall is between
17in. to 22in. a year and fair.y
reliable, as in the central-west ot
New South Wales, the sheep-
density varies between two sheep
to three acres to one sheep to
three acres. Similar densities tc
the latter also occur on the good
Mitchell - grass country 10
Queensland.


Y ARRAWIN
REGISTERED MERINO STUD FLOCK No. 555
1877-1955
78 Years of Efficient Service to the Flocks of Australia
... v< v .-.v.
m
vm
5«
,
■
BH
m
: nk
* ' .4
' ' >;*
-
m
# Y GU
# A CQUIRE
# R OBUST
# R AMS
m A LWAYS
# W HEN
m I NTRODUCING
£ N UMBER 555 BLOOD
BRED IN THE
NORTH WEST . . .
ON THE PLAINS,
SUPPLYING BIG
NUMBERS
OF BIG RAMS . . .
TO PRODUCE
BIG WOOL CHEQUES!
J. & J. DICKSON
YARRAWIN STUD Telephone: 70 Brewarrina BREWARRINA, N.S.W.
Y:
u
vN'iVq
&
c«*
»C
o*
*K
s<B&Sg£
«V'
\v
*0
:
*
t* €
O^
i'W
0
o%^
Jr
O
v
9 v
***
jc^V
*°
:
&M
►V£
V-.
5M5?:
a*FJ f 'l'
• ;v
r* •*:•'.
<O-
-
ZKaOZ
&£&
NfJ
81.5
Hotel Riverina, Hamilton, N.Z., in the heart of the lush
Waikato dairy country. A typical example of D.B. Hotels.
Cutting from the
NEW ZEALAND HERALD, 4th April, 1955.
Beyond Reproach
Sir, —My wife and I, who are on
the return stage of a world tour, leave
for the United Kingdom, via America,
after a fortnight’s delightful stay in
New Zealand.
_ We wish to say that the courtesy,
civility, 00-operatiOn. and general high
standard of the hotels in which we
have stayed have been beyond
reproach. Before leaving Australia, we
were warned to expect very “rough
and ready” treatment. Just ,the
reverse has been the case.
London. D T. T
Come to New Zealand'
and enjoy hospitality at
its best at the
D.B. HOTELS
The Hoi-els listed above are part of the chain of
hospitality throughout New Zealand's North Island,
owned and operated by Dominion Breweries Ltd.,
Queen's Arcade, Auckland.
The Wonder Fibre
By J. S. BOARDMAN
SINCE time immemorial, of
all the fibres used by
mankind in the manufac-
ture of textiles, wool has
always held, and no doubt
always will hold, an unassail-
able position owing to its many
and varied unique properties.
There is no other single fibre
that has all the useful and desir-
able properties possessed by
wool-fibre.
Looking at the wool-fibre
from its formation in the skin
of the sheep: The fibre grows
out from a “follicle,” or tube-
like sac, formed in the sheep’s
skin. The skin is in two layeps,
the outer layer, the “epidermis,”
and the under layer, called the
“dermis.” The outer layer has
on its underside another layer
called the “basal layer,” and
from this the wool-follicle
forms. At intervals the basal
layer grows downwards into the
dermis to form these small
follicles which can be seen on
the skin surface.
At the base of the follicle,
the basal layer forms a bulb-
like sac called a “papilla,” and
it is from this that the wool-
fibre starts its growth.
The fibre itself starts off as
small rounded cells which are
gradually forced up the neck of
the follicle, becoming elongated
Where the sheep types live. (This map, and the maps on the
opposite page, were prepared by Edgar Ford, teacher of geo-
graphy and co-author of textbooks.)
and splinter-shaped in the pro-
cess. These tiny, microscopic
cells are, in a Merino-wool of
64’s-quality, about 4/1000in.
long and 2/10,000in. wide.- That
is, there are about 15 to 20 in
a cross-section of a fibre.
These cells form the central
core and bulk of the fibre.
Those forming the outer surface
are very different; they are flat
and overlap each other like the
scales of a fish, thus forming
numerous indentations and pro-
jections called “serrations.”
(Note: Serrations are not the
waves which can be seen with
the naked eye in a staple of
wool, as I have heard many
woolgrowers call them. They
can only be seen under a
microscope.)
It is now thought that there
is an entirely new structure, the
existence of which was not pre-
viously suspected, covering the
outside of the fibre. The
“epicuticle” is a transparent
sheath which goes all over the
outside of the fibre, rather like
varnish. It is very thin; so
thin that it cannot be seen under
the ordinary microscope, but
only with the electron-micro-
scope. This sheath differs from
the rest of the fibre in that it is
not protein.
Opening into the neck of the
follicle are two glands, called
the “sebaceous”- or wax-gland
and the “suderiferous”- or sweat-
gland. The sebaceous-gland
produces the wool-wax and the
suderiferous-gland the suint (a
watery solution of potash salts).
Another structure of the
follicle-group is the “arrector
pili” muscle. (This small
muscle is one which in man and
other animals causes the hair to
stand on end, like the hairs on a
dog’s neck ; in the sheep, how-
ever, it serves no such purpose.)
The chemical composition of
the wool-fibre is a substance
known as “keratin.” This is
very stable and does not easily
disintegrate. That is why dead
wool which has been lying out
in the paddocks for years, in
all weathers, can be collected
and used for manufacture.
Wool-fibres when mixed
together and subjected to
pressure, friction and heat, will
felt and form a compact mass.
This property of “felting” is
very desirable when making
felts, but it also can have
disadvantages.
Wool-fibres when frequently
washed show' a tendency to
shrink, but several processes
have been discovered whereby
shrinking may be reduced to a
minimum. They all aim at
preventing the edges of the
cuticle-scales from interlocking:
1. —ln the wet chlorination pro-
cess chlorine is used to
remove the edges of the
scales.
2. —The dry chlorine process
consists of placing the
material in a cylinder,
exhausting the air, then
passing in chlorine-gas. The
same action takes place;
i.e., the edges of the scales
are blunted.
3. The enzyme process consists
in treating the wool-fibres
with the juice of the paw-
paw-tree (it is called
“papain”). This process was
discovered by two Austra-
lians, Freney and Lipson.
Dr. Lipson, Officer-in-
Charge, Textile Research
Laboratory, C.5.1.R.0., Gee-
long (Vic.), also has been
experimenting with another
method of shrinkproofing,
known as the Belmont pro-
“cess, which consists of using
resin on the fibres and, as it
were, “spot-welding” them,
and thus preventing any
movement. This process has
the advantage that it adds to
the fibres and no loss in
weight occurs during treat-
ment. At present the
C.5.1.R.0. is experimenting
with resins prepared from
scrap nylon.


4
|gggf
;: ; Sx
BM
;/v
m
m
ifii
m
m
HI
Wimm
M
Everyone says the same thing "GOOLGUMBLAS ARE GREAT SHEEP!"
As well as being great sheep—massive and symmetrical—they
grow heavy fleeces of beautifully bred Merino wool of bold-
medium quality, chock full of character.
ibove illustration (by “Country Life”) shows some of the stud and special stud
rams for auction this year at Sydney and Melbourne.
Goolgumbla Merinos have over 40 years purity of breeding to
the one ideal. They have been classed annually since 1925 by
Mr. H. Frank Pennefather. The stud and property have
remained under the capable management of Mr. Frank Baker
for over 30 years. Queensland representative is Mr. Rex
Greenhalgh, of Blackall. Size, Constitution, Quality, big fleeces
of high yielding wool, are notable features of all rams bred
for clients.
Forward bookings of rams, and ewes, should be made direct to:
GOOLGUMBLA PTY. LTD., JERILDERIE, N.S.W.
Telephone Jerilderie 104 Reg. Flock No. 42
4P
a
u
m
Mb
-jf.
ri-ri
U
All the
A
power you
need —when
you need it!
With heavy-duty Exide
“EXE22S” Houselighting
Batteries, the luxury of
electric labour-saving
devices and full, brilliant
lighting can be yours.
Assembled in iwo-volt units, "EXE22S"
allows flexibility in building up volt-
age, and permits freer ventilation
around the cells and greater economy
In the replacement of individual units.
Capacity, 225 amp. hours at the 10-
hour rate.
KEEP THEM
UNDER TOUR RQOF-THERES
NOTHING AS DEPENDABLE AS
tiXtvC
HOUSELIGHTING BATTERIES
Other Capacity Houselighting Batteries also available, including Exide Plante glass iar types.
Write for Free illustrated literature.
Distributed by: N.S.W.: Exide Batteries of Aust. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. VIC.: A. P.
Sutherland Pty. Ltd., Queen’s Bridge. Q’LAND: Exide Battery Service (Q.) Pty.
Ltd., Brisbane. S.A.: City Supplies Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.: M. J, Bateman Pty. Ltd.,
Perth. TAS.: Medhurst & Sons Pty. Ltd. Hobart.
Science
Aids the
Woolgrower
By P. R. McMAHON
IN 1945 the first major alloca-
tion of money for research in
the sheep-and-wool industry
in Australia was made by the
passing of the Wool Use Promo-
tion Act. In subsequent years
this sum has been increased until
now the annual expenditure is
around three-quarters of a
million pounds.
This apparently large expendi-
ture is already, after 10 years,
showing dividends of many
hundreds per cent. Control of
the rabbit through myxomatosis
is the prime example of scientific
work which has been of value
to the wool-industry. This has
meant an annual gain of,
perhaps, £25,000,000 to Austra-
lia in terms of increased animal-
production. Over two years it
would probably repay all
research-expenditure by Govern-
ment departments.
Benefits from the control of
black-disease, the control of the
sheep-blowfly, gains from the
use of trace-elements, improved
pastures and improved methods
of sheep-breeding also come to
mind.
These developments have
forced upon the sheepman the
knowledge that science has
changed from being a luxury
which he cannot afford to a
necessity which he cannot afford
to be without.
Both Government and indus-
try are now providing money for
research on a more generous
scale than ever before. At the
same time expenditure, after a
period when spending was well
short of the money available,
has now caught-up with
appropriations.
But the exploitation of science
—the development of technology
—requires more than just money.
The limiting factor in progress
is not money, but people—men
trained to discover new know-
ledge ; men with the vision to
see its practical application in
new methods; men with the
ability to explain these new
methods to others; and —
perhaps most of all —men on the
land who can understand and
use the results of the work of
the scientist.
In the School of Wool
Technology at the N.S.W.
University of Technology the
aim is to train professional
workers for the wool-industry
and, at the same time, to pro-
vide teachers and extension-
workers for all States of the
Commonwealth. These courses
aim to provide graduates who
have a scientific outlook and the
habit of exact and logical
thought, as well as the practical
skills required in sheep-work, in
handling wool and in recognis-
ing wool’s technical charac-
teristics.
The degree-course in wool-
technology is designed not only
to link producers, buyers and
users of wool, but also to make
available to our industry the
benefit of recent research. In
the final analysis this course is
a special training in animal-
husbandry and agriculture, with
the emphasis on sheep and wool
—supported, on the one hand,
by a background of scientific
training and, on the other, by a
series of specialised courses:
such as genetics, wool-science,
nutrition, farm-management and
pastoral-agronomy.
Students joining the school
must possess the usual matricu-
lation requirements of the Uni-
versity, which are a Leaving
Certificate pass or an equivalent
examination in five subjects,
including English and at least
one unit of Mathematics. To
assist the wool-industry the
Interdepartmental Committee on
Wool Research has provided
two undergraduate scholarships,
each of an annual value of £3OO,
to enable students to follow this
course. Similarly, the New
South Wales Public Service
Board makes available cadet-
ships of an approximately equal
value, while Commonwealth
scholarships may also be used
at the school.
In addition to providing
instruction, the School of Wool
Technology provides scientific
services for the wool-industry at
all levels. For woolbuyers and
wool brokers there is a well-
equipped testing-house which
measures, for a small fee, such
things as clean-scoured yield,
vegetable - matter - content and
fibre-fineness. This service is
used extensively by wool-firms.
The school issues certificates
as a member-laboratory of the
National Association of Testing
Authorities (N.A.T.A.). These
certificates are used in com-
mercial transactions, where
true-moisture-content or invoice-
weight of large bulks of wool
or wool-tops are required. It
is appropriate that a University
of Technology should provide
this service for an industry. We
believe that it will develop.
For the producer, the School
of Wool Technology has estab-
lished a flock-testing service
with the aid of a grant from the
C.5.1.R.0. This service aims to
provide the advantages of
impersonal measurement and
assessment for the selection of
breeding-stock and to put into
practical application the results
of the latest genetic research.
Those new methods are already
being put to use by progressive
Queensland breeders with the
assistance of their Department
of Agriculture officers.
Indications are that the correct
utilisation of new methods by
leading studs can double the
rate of improvement in wool-
production. This rate of
improvement is only slow,
perhaps something like 1 per
cent, per year on the amount of
wool produced annually. But
even a small change in rate of
increase means many million
pounds to Australia each year.
Through its staff and through
its post-graduate students the
school is making contributions
to both applied and fundamental
research in the sheep-and-wool
industry.
It must be emphasised that
the pastoral industry is only one
claimant both for finance and,
above all, for people.
Some of the new industries
present glamorous futures for
young men choosing careers.
Primary-industry must compete
with atomic energy, plastics,
aeronautical - engineering an
television for the limited number
of good brains which come from
our high schools every year.
But it is very necessary that
primary industry should receive
at least a minimum flow o
properly-trained recruits.


lisiio hmosmvaisnv
a Hi
: ill!
%
IV wy
:
mm
V Vi\
A
HI
vv
■Sit
»fE
■A
A
r
1
w
PS&Si,
i;.^;
~
SssS
gss>
feg
is
l >
gfgsgr
W'
ss
;
is
*• «a V
AUSTRALIAN MADE FOR GREATER POWER & ECONOMY.
PERFECTLY BALANCED, HORIZONTALLY OPPOSED TWO-
CYLINDER ENGINE ENSURES SMOOTH RUNNING.
18 x 26 REAR WHEELS GIVE YOU MORE POSITIVE
TRACTION.
MAXIMUM DRAWBAR H.P 52
RATED DRAWBAR H.P 39
Please send me full details of the Chamberlain 55DA
NAME
ADDRESS
BWSJ
CHAMBERLAIN INDUSTRIES PTY., LTD.
W.A Welshpool Road, Welshpool
S.A 12y Chancery Lane, Adelaide
Vic , Salmon Street, Port Melbourne
N.S.W Parramatta Road & Ostend Street, Ridcombe
Q. i... Dalgety & Co. Rtd., 291-301 Elizabeth St., Brisbane
CHAMBERLAIN
10. 14 & 18
DISC
PLOW
M
m
at
rsa
m
m
m
=»v
CHAMBERLAIN
20 & 24
TYNE
SCARIFIER
ASK YOUR
LOCAL DEALER
A Personal Inspection
Studs of Western Australia
By F. C. STONE
(Manager of the Stud Stock Department
of Wesstralian Farmers Co-operative, Ltd.)
THERE are —and have been
for the past 20 years —
more registered Merino-
studs in Western Australia
than in any other State in the
Commonwealth except N.S.W.
According to the flock-
histories, the majority of these
registered studs were established
on South Australian blood.
Among them they have some
good sheep. Most of these that
are auctioned at the numerous
country ram-sales have been fed
during the previous six months
on fodder grown on the pro-
perties. There is not one team,
to my knowledge, which gets a
daily ration of lucerne or has the
opportunity of grazing a stand of
it. Consequently, their appear-
ance is not up to Sydney
Standard. The point is, however,
that these sales provide the best
specimens of the local ram and
to a* great extent play a
prominent part in breeding our
local flocks and the wool-clip,
and thus are passing on the
characteristics of sires, most of
which were«imported from the
eastern States.
In Western Australia the
growth of our pastoral feed and
the thrashing our pastoral lands
have taken over the past 30 years
through droughts, indifferent
seasons and overstocking, make
our land more suited to the
plain-bodied, sheep than to the
more-developed Merino. How-
ever, with development of
pastures and the growing of
cereals for sheep-feed in the
lower-inland areas, it will be
possible to put more wool on
with a fair degree of safety;
consequently more skin-folds
will have to be accepted, in
moderation.
Regarding which type or which
particular blood is most suitable
for maximum wool-production
and profit, I do not think there
will ever be full agreement among
individuals or regimentation by
Governments, Nature, climate,
soil, altitude and rainfall are
beyond the control of the
laboratories, with their experi-
mental plots, although labora-
tories are desirable and to be
encouraged.
Actually, judging by the
auction-sales of rams, one can
detect a similarity in type among
many of the prominent studs. I
refer to a face free from wool;
an upstanding frame ; length in
the body with not overmuch
frontal development and very
little lower-neck fold ; not much
flank ; free from crutch-wrinkle
and fan-tail; with good hocks ;
very little, if any, brushing; feet
good generally; a good bite;
and wool of 58 to 60 and 60 to
64 quality—with little variation
in these counts.
You will notice that this type
is prominent among all the blood-
lines, which proves how malle-
able and responsive the Merino
is to visual selection whefn sup-
ported by progeny-testing ; a pro-
gramme which has been carried
out by many W.A. breeders in
conjunction with their importa-
tions of stud-rams over many
years.
The W.A. Merino stud-flocks,
as I see them, are sound and
honest. By this I mean they are
bred under natural conditions
on our own particular soil and
rainfall. With experience gained
by the breeders, a type has been
established along the lines of a
clean face, upstanding, a plain
tail and crutch, with not much
frontal development, and an
average 58 to 60 soft-handling
wool. Attending the various
country ram-sales, one sees many
rams similar to the description
I have given.
On my recent tour of the
northern part of our agricul-
tural country, the impression I
formed of the flocks I inspected
was that most teams were up to
last year’s standard ; some others
were in better condition than
when I saw them at the same time
last year.
The rams are well-grown and
upstanding, with good heads, legs
and feet; the horns appear to be
a bit close in, but will spread a
lot more yet. The faces are clear
of wool without being bare, and
the wool is of very good
character, with the body good
and very even in quality. They
are free from any roughness
around the flank, a defect which
is usually so noticeable when they
are showing only a few months'
growth of wool..
All the teams inspected were
very plain in the crutch, free
from any tail-wrinkle. On the
question of crutch- and tail-
wrinkle, it would appear that the
South Australian Merino is free
from these compared with the
N.S.W. families ; the former
studs can breed sheep free from
wrinkles but the latter find
greater difficulty in controlling
t h e skin-folds and seek Relief by
us j ng t h e Mules-operation. Prob-
ab]y th e w hy an( j wherefore is
t h a t in years gone by the South
Australian studs did not get
caught up with the craze for
skin-folds and wrinkles to
provide greater skin-surface by
the use of the American Vermont
blood, as did some of their
N.S.W. neighbors,
(Continued on next page)
They roll-up to Westralia’s Katanning ram-sales.


Worms can rob you
iH
mm
M I '5
mm
[ mm
of 40% of your clip!
ENSURE COMPLETE CONTROL OF THESE PARASITES.
USE THIS ULTRA-FINE PHENOTHIAZINE DRENCH
SICKLE
BRAND
LIQUAPHENE
Let’s face the bald truth! Worms undermine the health of your sheep,
retard development, can lower wool growth by as much as 40%. From
an income point of view, the end result is much the same as our illustra-
tion above. You can’t afford to lose that sort of money! Neither is it
profitable to use half-measures as a remedy . . . that means extra cost,
more time wasted. Best you insist on drenching with LIQUAPHENE, and
be sure of complete worm control. LIQUAPHENE
goes to work immediately stops egg production,
ensures maximum worm elimination and prevents re-
infestation of pastures. And because it’s so thorough,
LIQUAPHENE is really economical. For the invest-
ment of a few pence, you’ll be pounds better off—
healthy sheep bring a healthy wool cheque. Always use
Sickle Brand LIQUAPHENE, Australia’s proven drench.
NO MIXING, SETTLING OR BLOCKAGES
See your local agent for Sickle Brand
LIQUAPHENE ready for immediate use
in Quart Bottles
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
COMMONWEALTH FERTILISERS & CHEMICALS LIMITED
Reg. Office: 65 William St., Melbourne, G.P.O. Box 390 D
BRAND
SICKLE
MFfsnnw
HEALTHY SHEEP BRING A HEALTHY WOOL CHEQUE-
Included among the W.A.
studs that I have inspected are
the following:
Owendale, Gnowangerup, is
owned by D. O. Gaze. His rams,
when I inspected them last, were
more attractive than they had
been over the past few years, and
were regaining their style and
quality, which placed them
among the top flocks of
Collinsville-blood in our State.
Apparently the owner is breed-
ing mostly from the medium-
wool families within the stud,
although" I saw half a dozen big
bulky fallows carrying a 60- to
58-quahty wool of outstanding
character and style, with well-
ribbed bodies —the type of ram
previously looked upon as a pro-
ducer of “bale-fillers,” so popular
a few years ago. I think any stud
would be well advised to retain
a family in the stud capable of
producing a few robust-type
rams with soft-handling wool.
* * * ♦
There is little doubt but that
stud-Merino-breeding in W.A.
was born around Broomehill;
and along the back-road to
Katanning such names as
Braeside, Condeena, Illareen,
Langwell, Narrawong, Nardlah,
Wallinar and Woodyarrup have
always stood for good sheep and
honest breeding. All these stud-
flocks are still the property of
relatives of the original owners,
with the exception of Langwell,
which, after the death of its
owner, T. E. Richardson, was
acquired by N. H. Beeck, eldest
son of the late H. O. Beeck, one
of the most skilful flockmasters
of his time.
Langwell, under its new owner,
changed over to Collinsville-
blood, drawing its original stock
from Owendale, Gnowangerup ;
also drawing upon the Great
Southern Collinsville-blood studs
for sires when required. N. H.
Beeck has built up an excellent
stud-flock of a particular type of
sheep embodying his ideas in
frame and covering.
Today Langwell can be
included among the top studs of
our State. This claim is sup-
ported by the sheep as they stand,
in conformation* size and cover-
ing, and the record of price-
averages put up by the rams
over the years at the Katanning
sale, which, acclaimed as the
second most important Merino
ram-sale in Australia after
Sydney, is undoubtedly a hard
fixture to compete in and gain a
high average.
¥ ¥ * *
Glenroy stud, at Gnowan-
gerup, is owned by .Glen H.
Garnett. Evenness in frame and
type is a characteristic of the
rams bred in this stud,, with
fluctuations in value depending
on wool-style, bulk, etc.
Mr. Garnett, a keen student
of sheep-breeding, has had the
advantage of years of experience
on his father’s property. This
background, combined with a
steadfastness of purpose and a
genuine desire to advance his
sheep to a high standard of
wool-production and, above all,
a desire to satisfy his buyers,
will continue to generate a
healthy interest in Glenroy sheep.
Also worthy of mention is the
success that has been obtained
through introduction of the
imported Collinsville stud-ram
purchased at the Perth Royal
Show sale in 1951. This ram
was* used consistently and has
proved to be prepotent.
r * * *
Wanderin stud, at Bilbarin, is
owned by Messrs. W. J. and C. G.
Russell, whose stud - stock
activities embrace a stud-flock of
Peppin sheep and a stud-herd of
Aberdeen Angus cattle. Both
sheep and cattle rank among the
top-class of their respective
breeds in W.A., on show-
performances and sale-results.
The sheep-stud has the
advantage of the advice of well-
known breeder C. G. Russell,
owner of Yarling Brook, in the
Wickepin district, and a brother
of W. J. Russell.
C. G. Russell arranges the
selection and the breeding-
programme of the flock and
carries out the annual culling.
Stud-sires are also interchanged
between the brothers’ studs. This
practice has done much in
advancing both flocks to a high
place in popularity among
buyers.
Wanderin has always been a
firm supporter of the Bruce Rock
ram-sales, and has always offered
its top team of rams
there, and also teams at the
Corrigin and Katanning ram-
sales. The balance of the rams
are sold privately, usually a few
weeks after classing.
* * * *
At Korrelocking, H. Threlfall
and Son have a stud of Bungaree-
blood. The rams, in their growth,
shape and general appearance,
are very pleasing. They are, as
usual, well grown and deep in the
body ; their heads and horns are
excellent, and they all show a
perfect bite. Their wool has
length, softness and style, and is
of an average 60’s-quality to a
60-58. I could not help wonder-
ing what these sheep, and their
covering, would look like if they
were reared under easier condi-
tions—cleared paddocks (but
with generous shade-patches),
good natural grasses with a per-
centage of clover-land, turned,
say, once in six or seven years,
and top-dressed each year, and
with a better rainfall. They
would be pictures.
From appearances, however, I
doubt if you would get better
value in a sire today.
* * * *
On H. Biggin’s stud, Karingal,
at Kondinin, is pastured one of
the most popular flocks of
Murray-blood in our State today.
This popularity is the result of
the endeavors of one man. The
flock was registered in 1932 and
established on Murray-blood
ewes from the local stud of the
late W. W. Murray, Glen Turret.'
Sale-rams show an evenness in
style, conformation and wool
seldom seen.
The sheep have that masculine
open face, pink nose and well-
spread horns which seem to me
to be characteristic of the
Murray sheep. Rarely does one
see a pinch-nosed, narrow-faced
sheep of this old-established line,
dating back almost to that of the
Peppins.
Harry Biggin makes no claim
to any special scientific know-
ledge or method which has
helped him to bring his stud-
flock up to its present standard.
Apparently his methods are those
used by all practical sheep-
breeders: visual selection of the
ewes and rams, and progeny-
testing of sires before placing
them in his stud.
It is interesting to follow the
performance of one of his top
sires, Peter Pan. Born in April,
1949, this ram was used as a
hogget; as a two-tooth he
secured second place in the
strong-wool class at Perth Royal
Show; as a four-tooth he won
the first and strong-wool cham-
pionship and grand champion-
ship of the Perth Royal. As a
six-tooth in 1953 he
was placed first in the strong-
wool class. In 1953 his H-year-
old son secured the extra-strong-
wool championship and a
daughter secured the reserve
championship as a
in the medium-wool class. Mr.
Biggin also secured major honors
with a pen of three ewes, all
daughters of Peter Pan.
The Peter Pan family is well-
established in the Karingal stud.
* « * *
Braemar West, Wagin, owned
by Don Urquhart, is a stud of
pure Peppin-blood. Ewes and
rams come from Oak Park
(H. A. Bessen, Tambellup). In
recent years stud-rams have also
been acquired from Neilsen Mills
and Son, of Burrabogie (N.S.W.).
The introduction of these sires
has had a pronounced effect on
the Braemar West sheep, tighten-
ing-up the backs, while the length
of staple for which they were
noted has been retained; it has
added style and character usually
found only in the top Riverina
studs.
* * * *
The stud of K. M. Venemore,
of Buckinordie, Shackleton, is of
Collinsville-blood. The top sires
have usually been drawn from
the studs of N. H. Beeck, D. O.
Gaze and Glen H. Garnett.
There were over 400 stud-ewes
on Buckinordie when I saw them,
the bulk of them bred in the stud.
The Buckinordie sale-rams
were moving forward and taking
on those desirable features in
appearance that indicate excellent
prospects of sale-ring success.
These rams had size, very good
head, were long in the body, with
good backs and top-line, and a
little more frontal development
than is general today. With
these points goes a wool that will
please many by its softness in
handling and its style. The bulk
of the rams are true medium-
quality, with substance and
length in the staple.
* * * *
Loxley stud, near Wagin, is
owned by Mrs. L. Sutherland.
This property is part of the old
Behn-Ord run, which was one of
the finest Peppin studs in W.A.
founded on Haddon Rig-blood.
Loxley stud now has almost all
Collinsville-blood; but there is
a softness in the handling that
seems to be typical of a Peppin
foundation. Jim Sutherland
comes of an eastern States family
that bred pure Peppin sheep,
both in their native State and
also at Rosehill, Mt. Kokeby,
here in W.A., where Mr. Suther-
land, Snr., ran a registered stud-
flock of Peppin-blood.
* * * *
A tree-lined road leads to
Hazellea stud, owned by W. C.
Fuller, Wagin. I think he has
one of the most improved studs
of Peppin-blood in the district.
He draws ewes and rams from
A. Mills and Sons, of Millbrae,
Native Valley, South Australia.
He seems to have blended the
natural size and frame of the
S.A. sheep with the shape, wool-
style and quality of the N.S.W.
Peppin. This results in a type of
ram that would appeal to anyone
with an eye for a eood sheep.
The Hazellea sheep nave always
been noted for their fine- to
medium-quality wool and have
held together a strong clientele
of buyers.
Several years ago the rams
carried a wool with a generous
supply of natural condition. This
characteristic seems to have dis-
appeared now, being replaced by
a well-nourished wool, not as
greasy, but with a lovely creamy
color, and devoid of anything
approaching what could be
referred to as “stariness.” Very
attractive sheep indeed.
* * * *
Cardo stud, Watheroo, owned
by L. Kearny and Son, is one of
the remaining Koorioona-blood
studs on the - Midland Line,
which, in the early ’twenties, was
the home of the Koonoona sheep
in Western Australia. Today the
remaining members of the “Old
Guard” are the Bullocks, of
Koonya, Moora; A. Grant and
Sons, of Yanget, Geraldton ; and
L. Keamy and Son.
Yarragadee, owned by N.
Pearse, of Mingenew, was, I
think, the last one to discontinue
such breeding. I believe that
Colin Pearse is still interested in
Koonoona sheep. His brother is
stud-manager of Koonoona in
South Australia.
I inspected the Cardo sale-
rams, 1953 drop; 350 of them.
In general, the flock had Merino
faces, not too bare ; good horns ;
definitely plain in crutch and
tail, though a few showed a little
more development as compared
to the general line and type.
They had good depth of body
and sufficient front to give them
an attractive appearance. They
are excellent sheep, bred to type,
and are good cutters.
* * * *
The Bungaree-blood flock at
Glen Valley, Calcarra, is owned
by B. J. Edmonds and Sons. This
flock was established in 1940,
and has continued to progress
and improve, practically from
the year of its inception. It
emerged from its swaddling-
clothes, as it were, just about the
time of the discovery that only
the fine-wool sheep could save
the Western Australian wool-
industry, and its owners were
careful to avoid any danger of
letting their wool become too
broad according to the popular
conception of quality.


IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
the Wool and Livestock service of
WESTRALIAN FARMERS
CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
is unsurpassed
WOOL BROKERS
STUD STOCK BUYING AND
SELLING BROKERS
Branches in all major country centres.
Agents in all districts.
Stud Stock Representatives in all States, Tasmania, New
Zealand and Great Britain.
We welcome enquiries in respect to Purchases, Transport,
Insurance, etc., on Stock business.
Consult us on Sheep 'Classing and’Valuations of Stud Stock.
WOOL SALES HELD REGULARLY
Wool Stores: North Fremantle.
HEAD OFFICE: 569 Welling St., Perth.
Cable & Telegram: WESFARMERS, Perth.
Melbourne Office: Central Arcade, Collins St.
London: Overseas Farmers Co-op. Ltd., Fenchurch St.
Only Genuine parts restore the
true stamina and staying power of your
thoroughbred INTERNATIONAL truck!
GET true power from your thoroughbred
International truck by replacing worn
or damaged parts with only genuine I H
parts. Genuine I H parts fit better and last
longer because they’re the same as the
original! Worn parts waste power, so get
the performance of your International truck
checked regularly. Your local I H dealer is
a truck specialist he is ready to restore
the original stamina and staying power of
your thoroughbred International truck. He
gives specialised I H service and uses only
genuine I H parts. Make an appointment
for your truck now!
IIVNI9IUO m
3UIDS 3111 3J.A3111
-N
Hi
■ganiV* l
I*'*'
Genuine I H parts are made
in the same .*»<*“* J, ro |
,he same r, ? .d quahty o(
truck. That's why genuine
l„ H as
the original.
There's an INTERNATIONAL for every job I
e
MODEL AR-110
s£.
MODEL AR-160
■
1
523
.W/
MODEL AR-130
There's also a line of heavy-duty imported:
International models. Call, phone or write
your International Branch or dealer about
the right truck for your job.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.)
TRUCKS
DISTRICT SALES OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES. WORKS: DANDENONG AND GEELONG, VICTORIA.
FMTSB9-36
Fortunately they did not try to
transform a Bungaree-blood
sheep into a Peppin; they
realised that both types have
their place in the scheme of
things. Thus, today, Glen Valley
sheep are very presentable and
amongst the finest quality
Bungaree-blood sheep I have
come across.
WESTRALIA'S WOOL
By GILBERT SMITH
(Chief Wool Expert of Westralian
Farmers Co-operative, Etd.)
TTHE W.A. wool-clip has grown
•*- fairly quickly. Sheep-
numbers have increased from
some seven-million in 1925 to
about 13-million in 1955.
The State may be divided into
three zones. From the latitude
of Geraldton northwards the
country may be regarded as
strictly pastoral.
In the coastal areas are the
Gascoyne and north - west
stations, to the east the
Murchison and Goldfields runs,
and up in the far north the
Kimberley clips. The latter are
inclined to be thin and fine and
often carry a certain amount of
discoloration, known as canary-
stain, which will not wash out.
These wools are mostly bought
by the Continent on account of
their fineness of quality.
Provided growing-conditions
are favorable, the Gascoyne and
north-west clips are of a bulkier
nature and carry more condi-
tion and dust, and sometimes
sand, which makes them tricky
judging for new buyers.
The Murchison and Goldfields
wools are generally brighter and
lighter, carrying only light-red
dust. Some of these are most
attractive in appearance and to
handle, and the highest prices in
the sales are generally realised by
fine-wool Murchisons.
In earlier days the bulk of the
W.A. clip came from the pastoral
areas, but this is no longer the
case. From Geraldton south-
wards to Perth is the Midlands
area, and 100 miles east of Perth
is the heart of the wheatbelt. The
old town of York lies about 60
miles east of Perth, and from
there the Great Southern railway
follows a fairly straight line to
Albany, the south-coast port.
Midlands and wheatbelt wools
are usually described as “agri-
cultural-type” ; some of them
carry a fair amount of dust and,
from some areas, clover-burr.
From the Great Southern line
come many brighter and whiter
wools, still referred to as the
“blue wools.” The term harks
back to the days when most of
the sheep were run in the bush,
and the wool got a bluey-looking
tip from the charcoal on burnt
stumps and scrub.
Between the Great Southern
line and the west coast lies a
large area known as the south-
west. Being mostly cattle- and
dairying-country, its sheep-
population is limited; mainly
crossbred. High rainfall is con-
ducive to footrot. Quite a busi-
ness is done, however, buying
store-sheep on the Great
Southern line and fattening for
the Perth market.
Nowadays, twice as much
wool is grown in the Agricul-
tural and Great Southern
areas south of Geraldton as in
the Pastoral territories. This is
due to a number of causes:
1. —Farms in wheatgrowing
areas which were originally
put under crop in an un-
fenced state, have been
fenced, and water-supplies
have been provided in the
shape of dams, enabling
sheep to be carried.
2. —Where sheep were originally
carried as scavengers on the
fallow and a mere sideline,
they have become a valued
alternative to wheatgrowing.
3- The high price of wool has
stimulated the farmers
keener interest and concen-
tration on improving the
breed and the weight cut, as
well as increasing the
numbers.
4. —Probably the most dominant
factor: the introduction of
sub.-clover and top-dressing.
The carrying-capacity of this
country has been doubled,
trebled and quadrupled. Instead
of reckoning on so many acres
to the sheep in bush country,
the top-dressed pasture in the
Great Southern is carrying one,
sometimes two, and at times
three sheep to the acre.
And these sheep are cutting
101 b. to 121 b. per head against
the old bush-country 71b. or 81b.
A considerable amount of
country is being opened-up in
southern parts of the State, par-
ticularly for soldier-settlement,
and a large acreage is being
cleared.
A tremendous*- increase in
wool-production will take place
in this area and, no doubt, a
second selling-centre will be
opened at Albany in the not-so-
distant future. A freezing-works
at Albany makes it a natural
centre for a crossbred-wool area,
too.
At the present time, Merino
wool comprises approximately
92 per cent, of the W.A.
clip. W.A. wools have
some characteristics of their
own. The Pastoral wools usually
show evenness of growth, but
those from the southern half of
the State usually reflect the
growing - conditions, which
include a very long dry summer.
This is apt to result in a
greater percentage of tender
wool than in most States, and a
thinner and finer fibre-growth
towards the centre of the staple
than at the two ends.
The only selling-centre in the
State is Perth, where the actual
wool-sales take place, although
the stores and show-floors are at.
the port of Fremantle.
Quantifies of wool sold in
W.A. over a period of years are
(to nearest thousand):
1923-34 .. 103,000 bales
1934-35 .. 218,000 „
1943-44 .. 330,000 „
1950-51 .. 315,000 „
1953-54 .. 358,000 „
An interesting comparison is
the rapid growth of the co-
operative woolbroking business
in W.A.
Westralian Farmers Co-opera-
tive, Ltd., started as wool-
selling brokers in 1922, and in the
first season sold 1650 bales.
They are now handling between
70,000 and 75,000 bales a year.
General - manager John
Thomson recently announced
that the company was starting
immediately to build a new store
at a cost of £350,000, the first
step towards a structure
estimated at an eventual million.
W.A. is in the news nowadays,
what with a £4O million oil-
refinery at Kwinana (near Fre-
mantle), big water- and
electricity-schemes, wool-scour-
ing and -combing works, and
rapid industrial development in
all directions. But the backbone
of the State’s prosperity remains
wool.


1 didn’t realise that such a safe and
convenient service could he so economical l n
So many of our clients have told us this, that we would like to
have the opportunity of explaining to you the
MAYNE NICKLESS
PAYROLL DELIVERY AND BANK
DEPOSIT SERVICE
You, and your staff, will welcome the freedom from all risks
of violence and injury. You will be surprised and pleased at
the moderate cost, which includes full insurance until wages
are paid.
Please ring us for one of our representatives to call at your
convenience.
MAYNE NICKLESS
LIMITED
11 For Every Transport Need”
80-138 York Street, South Melbourne
Telephones: MXYIBO (50 lines)
572 King Street,
Newtown, Sydney.
LA2402 (15 lines).
64 Hughes Street,
Mile End, Adelaide.
LU7312 (2 lines)
62 Blackall Street,
Broadmeadow,
Newcastle.
Hamilton 694.
264 Latrobe Terrace,
Geelong.
Geelong 4454.
68 Cordellia Street,
South Brisbane.
Jl2Ol (3 lines)
Morwell and
Broken Hilk
BUY
EM
Stud established 80 years
J&ute Metlno /Stood
m
A TYPICAL EGELABRA KAM
Hardy Constitutions —Heavy Wool Cutters —
They get the lambs They fill the bales
Due to their long heritage of pure breeding,
Egelabra rams will mate successfully with ewes
of any other strain.
NOTE: Our Official Representative, Mr. E. C. Cobb, of 10
Carrington Street, Bowral, is available for the selection of rams
and the classing of flocks.
H. E. KATER & SON PTY. LTD.
Egelabra, Warren, N.S.W. Tel.: Warren 10
Growers of the Golden Ram Merino-men and Their Studs
By J.F.
DRYDEN “Glorious
John,” as an enthusias-
tic disciple in a Scott
novel called him —wrote
of the golden ram:
Though Jason’s Fleece was fam’d of
old,
The British wool is growing gold;
No mines can more of wealth supply.
It keeps the peasant from the cold,
And takes for kings the Tyrian
dye . : .
Sydney Sheep Show . . . John
Macarthur . . . and, out of the
past, an English voice singing
the praises of English wool.
A reminder that for many
centuries Englishmen cherished
the conviction that English wool
was the best in the world. The
Spaniards held a similar belief.
And so do we.
The Spanish flocks never
altogether recovered from the
Napoleonic Wars and the drain
on their best blood by purchase
and by such droving-expeditions
as the one Napoleon himself
organised—2o,ooo Merinos taken
over the Pyrenees into France,
in order to improve the Ram-
bouillet strain. But, at its best,
it is doubtful whether the finest
Spanish wool would come any-
where near some of our
Western District (Vie.)* New
England and Yass (N.S.W.) and
Tasmanian wools, to glance
hastily at three States.
At last year’s ram-sales in
Sydney (they will again be on
after the current Sheep Show) a
Bundemar (Trangie, N.S.W.)
ram sold for 5500gn5.: a
modern, decidedly golden ram.
And there is, perhaps, a wider
application. Man loves a myth,
and the ram is a mythological
sort of beast —for all his yolk,
and burrs, and weight of fleece.
Not strong on brains, but with
the reputation of astonishing
prowess, reaching far back into
antiquity. Reeking, so to speak,
of wealth and fertility and
virility. No bad symbol, after
all, of the awakening strength of
a young nation.
Englishmen have turned to
breeding quality mutton- and
fat-lamb 'sheep—the Downs and
Longwools—the manufacturing
of woollen goods, and textiles
from man-made fibres, and to
a host of other activities. But
the ancient prestige of wool
lingers in English words and
institutions—“ The Woolsack,”
for instance, as a synonym for
high Parliamentary office.
It goes a long way back.
Dionysius Periegetes, a geo-
grapher of antiquity, wrote of
fleece “so soft and fine” it was
“like a spider’s web” when spun.
Making proper allowance for
the poetic imagination of geo-
graphers, there is still the testi-
mony of the Elizabethan anti-
quary Lambard: “The exceed-
ing fineness of the fleece passeth
all other in Europe at this day.”
As late as the 16th century the
Venetian envoy claimed that
“Spanish wool cannot be com-
pared [with England’s] very fine
and excellent wool.”
But by the end of the next
century the position was
reversed. The breeding of
larger sheep in place of the
“ancient, small breed” had
caused a deterioration in the
quality of the wool: “We must
submit to Spain in the utmost
curiosity of fineness.” And:
“So long as Englishmen are
fond of fat mutton they must
not expect to grow fine wool.”
Spanish wool, however, had
been coming into the countiy
since the 14th century: there
are records of it in Customs-
accounts of 1303.
The woolly fellows out a
Moore Park, Sydney, have long
pedigrees. Open the Australian
Stud Merino flock Book and
royal and princely houses or
Europe perform a minuet,
Habsburgs, Hahenzollerns, Han-
overs; princes and Electors,
Through a few fundamental
families the Merino-studs o
Australia are, by and large,
closely linked. A fair section
of history, Australian and
European, is represented in the
pens at the R.A.S. ground.
There were the American
importations: Rambouillets,
Vermonts, De Lames. But
these, too, trace back to Spain,
The early history of the
Merino in Spain is misted by
time ; a golden mist. The
Merino may have been native
to the soil; or brought from
Africa by the Moors ; or from
Italy by the Romans; and so
on, back to Jason.
Similarly with the name itself:
derived, possibly, from a
Moorish tribe, the Beni-
Merines; from maritano, maW-
non or mannos— having crossed
the sea; from Marinas, a
Roman soldier and sheep-
fancier; or, more simply, from
the Spanish word merino, which
has the meaning of wanderer or
fugitive. The phrase ovegas
merino merely means “travelling
sheep.”
A notable thing about the
Spanish sheep was this travelling,
backwards and forwards from
plain to hills. Something after
the style of the movement of
Riverma sheep to the Monaro
and Upper Murray snow-leases
in summer. But this—mainly—
N.S.W. example is a limited
one, even in terms of the
Riverina, whereas in Spam the
annual migrations involved
millions of sheep. The custom
is still followed in Spain, on a
smaller scale. But now, for
long distances, the sheep go by
rail -
There were two main groups
of sheep in Spain: the Trans-
humantes, or travellers, and -a
larger, coarser-woolled breed
called the Estantes, kept on per-
manent pasture. A strong local
tradition attributed the fine-
wool of the Transhumantes to
the annual migrations. The
maintenance of a comparatively
even temperature throughout the
year, by the change from plains
to hills, it was believed, con-
tnbuting to the fineness of the
“ eece -
In' 1779 it was estimated that
there were 10 million Trans-
humantes in Spain. Flocks
were split into mobs of from
2000 to 3000, with one shepherd
to each 500 sheep. Don
Quixote, it will be remembered,
had an adventure with the
travelling sheep.
Notable lines were: The
Paular," the largest and one of
the three best families of the
Merino in Spain, owned by the
Carthusian monks of Paular;
wool was described as soft,
silky, close and compact, and
with little surface-yolk. The
Royal flock, the Escurial, g en ‘
erally graded first in quality;
sheep were al bout K
bu 8 t of
betf£r ’ quality a nd beautifully
£ xhe Negret te, largest
and strongest 0 f the travelling
sheep . WO( q was shorter, and
t he sheep was loose-skinned;
rams were large-horned, woolled
on the face and down to the
hoof. The Infantado, with the
characteristic that the ram’s
horns were very to the
The Guadalupe, eav^ r '
bol ) ed , lhan ?,
denar, well-cnmped wool,
Blood rom these lines runs
through the Merino flocks of the
world Spain—unlike England
__ perm i t ted the export of wool
from early times> but the export
of sheep was pro hibited. The
embargo was par tially lifted in
tbe jg tb cen t U ry
rpjjAT, of course, is where we
1 came in . as has been mos t
compe tently described elsewhere
in this issue. Leaving, for that
reason, the Royal stud at Kew,
let’s look at Saxony,
Though Sweden was the first
European country to import
Merinos, it was in Saxony that
their value was first reC ognised.
g ax0 ny rams and ewes appear
frequently in t he records of the
earl development of the
M erino in Australia. The Cox
famil in New South Wa i es and
Tasmania ; Alexander Riley, of
Rab James Wa ik er , of
Waller awang ; Bettington, of
Bathurst—these and others im-
pGrted Saxony sheep. William
Macarthur (as mentioned else-
where) didn’t care for them,
X he Saxony studs were
founded on importations from
t jie Escurial flock—92 rams and
128 ewes—in 1765. A second
] o t 0 f 100 rams and 200 ewes
were imported in 1774. In 1802
there were 4000 pure-bred
Merinos in Saxony studs,
Saxony farmers were very care-
ful breeders. They culled
heavily and evolved a distinctive
Saxony type. There was some
sacrifice of frame and constitu-
tion to wool-quality, but that


</> TJ O
t
o-operation
A brief history of N.S.W.'s most pro-
gressive Wool and Produce Company the
Growers' OWN Country Producers Selling
Company Limited.
Back in 1910, before the First World War, a group of
practical far-seeing men banded together to form the
firm soon to be familiarly known as the “Country
Producers.”
From inception the Company’s policy has been to pay
all Wool Clients, whether shareholders or not, refunds
from commissions charged. In all these have
amounted to £269,059. (Last year’s refund, £23,665.)
At the same time business turnover has grown
phenomenally. Last year, for instance, 95,329 bales
of growers’ wool, 297,690 sheep and lambs, countless
hides, skins and drums of tallow were sold in the
Company’s Sydney centre.
The Store, Stock, Property and Merchandise depart-
ments today provide clients with outstanding service.
Yes, the “Country Producers” is a solid company—
one which merits well the slogan: “You can consign
with confidence to C.P.S.”
THE
Country Producers
SELLING COMPANY LIMITED
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney BU 5101
The best deal in Shearing dm
[/&T6O 2-STAND PLANTS
pOBTABIt * N °
SEM I.PORTA Bit
OVtR
Wfc*°
THE AMAZING
UTILITY” PLANT
/or faring and Crufching
'** .>
<£*
nr
THE WORLD’S FINEST
istffß
SHEARING MACHINERY
SHGIA.93
Sole Distributors in New South I Vales:
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch ltd.
10-14 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY
Branches at: Lismore, Wagga, Hay, Newcastle and Melbourne.
quality was very high, by con-
temporary standards. Outside
the Royal flock most of the
blood imported into Saxony was
Negrette, with some Infantado.
Von Vinke, in 1768, and
Frederick the Great, in 1776,
imported Merinos into Prussia.
Many of these died, but the
survivors, and big importations
of Infantado and Negrette
blood in 1811, were the founda-
tion of some of the Silesian
studs, which have an Australian
importance.
Spanish Merinos were first
taken to France in 1770, and in
1773 Louis XVI established a
stud near the village of Ram-
bouillet. Many studs were
started, but the Merino never
became popular in France.
The Rambouillet, however,
transplanted to America, became
an important strain. There
were various early importations
into Australia, and one recent
one, which will be noted later,
and which has caused something
of a stir.
Maria Theresa of Austria
introduced Merinos into
Hungary—a land of wide plains
—about the same time as the
Prussian experiment. The first
lot of 300 picked Negrettes were
the foundation of the Imperial
stud at Meropail. The famous
Lichnowski stud in Silesia was
an offshoot of the Imperial
stud.
The first Merinos taken to the
United States, in 1793, were
killed for mutton. Later,
smaller lots, sent by U.S.
Ambassadors in Spain, and
mainly Infantado and Escurial
strains, fared better. In 1809,
when the great flocks of Paulars,
Negrettes, Montarcos and
Acqueenos were confiscated and
sold, 1700 went to America ; and
in 1810 and 1811 some 16,000
Spanish Merinos were imported
there.
Three strains of Merino
emerged in the United States:
the Vermont, large - framed,
wrinkled, and cutting a heavy
fleece of rather strong, yolky
wool; the De Laine, a plain-
bodied sheep; and the Ram-
bouillet. All three have had
some influence on Australian
sheep. In 1883 Sir Samuel
McCaughey began his consider-
able experiments with Vermonts,
and these started a new fashion
here.
And now, after a good many
years, another American strain
has been imported. A couple of
years back Ray Bladwell, of
Goulburn (N.S.W.), imported
some American Rambouillets.
These modern Rambouillets are
big—bigger than any of our
Merinos —and heavy ; square
and wide behind. Fleece is
70’s to 80’s, cutting compara-
tively light weights of very
greasy wool; clean - scoured
weights would be poor by Aus-
tralian standards. The sheep
have a great reputation for
hardiness.
The idea is to combine the
mutton-qualities of the Ram-
bouillet with the bulk and
quality of wool of the Austra-
lian Merino; they are, of
course, both Merinos. Some
other N.S.W. graziers have had
Rambouillet rams from Blad-
well, crossing them with Merry-
ville ewes. For some years now
the University of California has
been crossing South Australian
Merinos with the American
Rambouillet, with the same
general aims, but with the
emphasis rather more on carcass-
weight and -quality. In any
case, an interesting experiment.
AS mentioned in Sir William
' Macarthur’s letter (earner
in this supplement), a part of
the Camden Park flock went to
William Campbell at Tourall
(Vic.). Between 1846 and 1857
rams from this flock—which
had been kept pure—went to
Learmonth, Currie, Cunning-
ham, Willis, Swanson, Bell and
others. More rams went to
Currie in 1876 and 1877. In
March, 1880, Campbell sent a
few of the original flock to Sir
William Macarthur. Descen-
dants of these sheep have been
kept at Camden Park by the
Macarthur-Onslow family for
reasons of sentiment.
Captain William Cox bought
the Waterhouse flock in 1810.
The flock was bred within itself
until 1828, when some Saxony
rams (imported by Alexander
Riley, of Raby) were used.
When the Cox flocks were
divided among the sons, the
largest part went to George Cox,
who kept it intact at Mulgoa
(N.S.W.) until' 1830, when he
moved it to Burrundulla (the
property he and his brother
Henry had taken up in 1821) at
Mudgee.
Six Rambouillet rams (from
France) came into the flock
early ; then another Rambouillet
in 1858. In 1862 two rams and
six ewes were imported from
Germany; next year another
ram. Then importations from
America, and from Tasmania,
where, as early as 1812, another
Cox, James, had laid the founda-
tion of the Clarendon stud with
one ram and six ewes bought
from Macarthur: these were
sheep imported by Macarthur
from the Electoral stud of
Hamburg.
The brothers George and
James Cox did a great deal to
lay the foundations of Merino-
flocks in the two States.
Clarendon-blood runs through
famous Tasmanian and Vic-
torian families, and in N.S.W.
Burrundulla sheep exerted a
similar influence. Havilah, for
instance, was founded on
Burrundulla-blood. But it is
not really possible to assess the
great Merino-lines in terms of
State boundaries. There was a
continuous interpenetration of
blood.
The Cox family were com-
mitted to Saxony- and Silesian-
blood, both in N.S.W. and
Tasmania. But in the meantime
(1832) a younger son of William
Cox, Edward, had founded a
stud on Raby ewes and rams —
the start of the Fernhill-Rawdon
line. Up to 1856 the flock was
bred in and in. Then 25 rams
were exchanged with Havilah.
Havilah, also at Mudgee,
was' founded about 1835 by
N. P. Bayley, who managed the
Lawson estates and is reputed
to have selected Lawson sheep—
bred from rams from George
Ill’s stud at Kew, mated with
Saxon ewes —in lieu of salary,
perhaps profiting by the story of
Jacob. Bayley bought ewes and
rams from Burrundulla —the
original Waterhouse-Cox flock
transplanted to Mudgee—and, as
mentioned, Edward Cox re-
freshed his flock with Havilah
sheep. A criss-crossing and
circling.
But Edward Cox’s foundation-
flock came from Raby. In 1824,
in association with • James
Walker, of Wallerawang, and
J. B. Bettington, of Brindley
Park, Alexander Riley imported
rams and ewes from the Elector
of Saxony’s stud. Riley then
bred from Macarthur ewes,
which were by George 111 rams
out of Waterhouse ewes.
In 1856 Edward Cox’s son,
E. K. Cox, took over the Raw-
don flock and property. He
was, possibly, the first of the
great Australian flockmasters.
A grandson of Captain William
Cox, he is not far removed from
the beginnings; representative of
what may be called the second
wave of Merino-breeders in
Australia.
In 1878 wool from Rawdon
took the Grand Prix de Paris
at the Paris Exhibition; earlier,
a silver medal in Paris and
bronze medals in London and
Philadelphia ; and, at the World
Fair in London, a special gold
plaque.
Soon after taking over Raw-
don, E. K. Cox imported five
rams from Prince Lichnowski’s
flock in Silesia: the Lichnowski
flock, as mentioned earlier,
being derived from Maria
Theresa’s stud in Hungary. In
1869 a Tasmanian ram named
Clothmaker, bred by D. Taylor,
of Johnstone, was introduced.
Next year a ram from Bellevue
(Tas.) and another Johnstone
• ram, and then a ram called
Velvet, from J. D. Cox, of
Cullenbone.
Cullenbone was an offshoot
of Broombee, founded by C. C.
Cox, on Rawdon rams and
L.U.E. ewes. The Rawdon rams
were by the Lichnowski im-
portations. At Broombee this
combination was not mixed
with any other blood. The best
ram ever bred by C. C. Cox was
Broombee Pet. He was lent for
two months to Suttor, of
Katella, who had bought Broom-
bee ewes: thus starting the
Katella-line. Among the studs
which used Broombee rams were
Rawdon, Birangambil, Wallinga,
Cullenbone, Springfield, Coo-
nong, and several leading
Tasmanian studs.
The name Cox appears in the
latest Merino Flock Register
(Vol. XXX: 1953). Bocomble,
near Mudgee, was founded about
(Continued on next page)


DENILIQUIN
STUD PARK NORTH
MERINO STUD
(Reg. Flock 195)
The best value money can buy!
These Merinos are pure lineal descendants from Peppin’s
original double stud flock on Wanganella, and have been bred
and improved continuously since 1878 by three generations of
the Millear family. Stud Park North flock rams, 2000 of which are
classed up annually, are sure flock improvers—lamb getters,
bale fillers ... They possess great stamina, strong bone,
UNIFORMITY of type. Manager is Mr. Ken A. Macdonald . . .
Stud classer Mr. H. Frank Pennefather. Telephone Gala Vale 27
(through Jerilderie) . . . THE USUAL GOOD TEAM OF STUD
RAMS IS PENNED UP FOR SALE AT SYDNEY RAM SALES
ON JUNE 6-8 .. . Bold medium wool.
It is advisable to book up general ram orders early. Queensland
depot—Sylvania, Hughenden.
liliiiillliil
llllilllllliiiii
imm
W?wMsi
SmWI
j
M me
|,-v:':
'j
i
ROUTINE CLASSING OF THE EWES AT STUD PARK NORTH
Write:
THOMAS MILLEAR, Stud Park North, Jerilderle
Wi
m
w
?S i
ggßSraaai
■■■ :*».?•**
IM
«*.... V^...'.
******* «*
t’
fc : : : : : *
y
s
*w
mm*>
si
V?
m
>*!»,
us? /
•* 5.
7
I I V
I ? * :
V V*
Serving the man
on the land
since isss
AUSTRALIAN
COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - SYDNEY
ESTATES
Over 77 Branches, Special Agents and
Representatives throughout the country
districts of Queensland, New South
Wales and Victoria.
WOOL BROKERS. STOCK AND STATION AGENTS. STUD STOCK
AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
1893 by William Cox and his
son, William, by the purchase of
200 ewes from G. H. Cox, of
Burrundulla. About 1909
Charles and Leslie Cox, sons of
William, senior, took over the
stud, trading under the name of
Cox Bros. It has been managed
since then by Charles Cox,
whose two sons, R. and G. Cox,
were taken into partnership in
1950. Burrundulla, although no
longer a stud, is still run by the
Cox family.
Another Mudgee stud, L.U.E.,
was started early—in 1823, by
James Walker, of Wallerawang,
with sheep selected from the
flocks of Trimmer, Turner and
Lord Western ; all three flocks
descendants of the Kew
Merinos, of Paular strain.
Saxon rams imported by
Riley, of Raby, were used
early: then the joint-importa-
tions mentioned before. In
1856 the flock passed to J.
Riley and Bloomfield, and no
more outside blood was used
until 1877, when L.U.E. was
bought by Vincent Dowling,
who used Rawdon rams: bring-
ing in the Raby blood again.
Other N.S.W. flocks formed
in the ’twenties and ’thirties of
last century were those of the
Peel River Land Company
(1825); R. Jones and W. S.
Davidson, 'of Collaroy (1825);
J. B. Bettington, of Brindley
Park (1830); Alexander Busby,
of Cassilis (1830); Australian
Agricultural Co. (1825).
'THE first sheep of Merino-
blood in Tasmania were
ordered from Macarthur by
Captain Paterson, Lieutenant-
Governor of the northern part
of the island.
They were not pure Merino,
but near-enough for Paterson’s
purpose of improving the
mongrel type of Bengal and
Cape crossed with English sheep
then in Tasmania.
Paterson ordered 300, but of
these 100 died on the way. The
surviving 200 arrived in 1806,
and improved the quality of the
wool considerably.
In 1820 Lieutenant-Governor
Sorell distributed 181 pure
Merino rams among the settlers.
In 1827 the Van Diemen Land
Company landed 266 Saxony
Merinos, and followed-up with
other importations from
Germany and from George Ill’s
flock. *ln 1830 the company had
6129 sheep, all exceptionally
well bred. Then they switched
to English longwools, having
decided that these were more
suited to much of the land held
by the company. In this they
were foreshadowing a tendency
which developed, in a sort of
giant curve, much later.
The Tasmanian Merino has
had considerable influence on
the mainland Merino, and also
on the Merino in other parts of
the world, such as South
Africa. At one time something
like 90 per cent, of the island’s
clip was Merino-wool, and Tas-
mania had the title of “Merino
stud-farm of the world.” Names
of sheep such as Sir Thomas,
Golden Horn, Sir Robert,
Treasure, became, if not quite
household words, familiar ones
in the wool-industry.
But of late years the number
of Merinos in Tasmania has
declined. In 1948 the number
of sheep in Tasmania was given
as 2,860,528 ; 74 per cent, of
which were crossbred and 26 per
cent. Merino. In 1950, out of a
total of 2,170,000 sheep, Tas-
mania had only 285,000 Merinos.
Clip-estimate for the 1954-55
season was 64,800 bales, com-
prising 11,670 bales of Merino-
wool and 53,130 bales of cross-
bred-wools.
Queensland, on the other
hand, in 1950 had 17,326,000
Merinos out of a total sheep-
population of 17,582,000.
The major reason for this
drop in numbers in Tasmania is
the change in the size of hold-
ings. As one writer puts it,
“The State, with its high and
assured rainfall, changed from
a stud-farm into an orchard.”
In 1945, out of a total of 4842
holdings, 3345 were less than
500 acres.
But Tasmanians still grow
good fine to super-fine Merino-
wool and, every now and then,
the price paid for Tasmanian
wool creates a new record: in
1947, 153 d highest ever
paid for Merino-wool up to that
date. Last year F. Dowling, of
Verwood, Ross (Tas.), got an
Australian-record price of 255 d.
for his wool.
At the same sale a choice
superfine comeback-wool grown
by K. M. Campbell and Sons,
Nant, Bothwell, brought 194 id.
Tasmania is famous for its
comeback - wool: well - grown,
long and shafty, good for tops-
making, with little loss in
noil . . .
But this is skipping genera-
tions of men and many genera-
tions of sheep.
'T'HE exodus to Port Phillip
lightened the Merino-
population of Tasmania for a
time, but did more good than
harm: there were already signs
of overstocking on the cleared
pasture in the north of the
island. At the same time it
started the Merino in Victoria.
Hume crossed down over the
Murray in 1824, and was
impressed by the possibilities
for grazing in the south.
A fellow-townsman of Hume,
John Batman, who had a farm
at Loch Lomond (Tas.), and who
had accompanied Hume on
several expeditions, told the
Henty brothers about the fine
pasture across Bass Strait. The
Hentys, restless fellows who had
taken up 80,000 acres on the
Swan (W.A.) before going to
Tasmania, didn’t take much
persuading.
They had been running
Merinos at Strathmore East and
Symmons Plains, and, like other
early breeders in Tasmania, had
imported Merinos from Saxony
and England. They offered to
buy 2500 acres on the southern
coast of What was later to be
called Victoria, for ss. an acre,
but the offer was refused.
They went, anyway, in 1834 —
a few years after the Van
Diemen Land Company
switched from Merinos to Eng-
lish longwools —taking their
Merinos with them.
They established a whaling-
station at Portland Bay, and, in
1836, when Major Mitchell told
them about the wonderful
pasture on the banks of the
Wannon River, Edward Henty
went and looked at it himself.
The Hentys settled there, calling
their place Merino Downs. By
1840 they were well-established
on Merino Downs, with large
homesteads, solid outbuildings,
and multiplying flocks.
In the meantime Batman had
formed the Port Phillip Asso-
ciation, and more settlers, with
their flocks, crossed the water.
Then the N.S.W. pastoralists
began to trickle their sheep in
from the north.
But in Tasmania a distinctive
type of the Australian Merino
was being developed—by James
Cox, of Clarendon; A. Leake,
of Ashby; W/ Archer, of
Brickendon ; Richard Willis, of
Wanstead Park ; G. Parramore,
of Westmore and • Beaufront;
Mrs. Furlonge, of Kenilworth;
William Kermode, of Mona
Vale ; and, a little later, in the
’thirties, by David Taylor, of
St. Johnstone and Old Winton;
J. Youl, of Symmons Plains;
Captain Horton, of Somercotes,
and G. F. and J. H. Thirkell,
of Darlington Park and
Pockthorpe.
In 1838 W. P. Faithfull started
the Springfield flock at Goulburn
(N.S.W.) with 10 rams from
Camden Park and ewes from
Hassell’s flock (founded on
Winton-blood from Tasmania).
Faithfull bought rams from


NOTHING MEASURES UP TO
Yarra Falls Worsteds are made from pure Australian virgin wool . . .
with supreme craftsmanship that gives you quality in full measure.
YARRA FALLS
WORSTED SUITINGS best by any measure
T he Hall Mark of Quality
m
i
YARRA FALLS LIMITED, Abbotsford, N 9, Victoria
Wool
—foundation of
Australia’s Wealth
Surely no industry in the world’s
history has been so dramatic in its de-
velopment as Wool Production in Aus-
tralia. From barely one bale in the first
year of export to the present annual
output of nearly four million bales is
truly a mighty achievement.
In paying tribute to the men of the
wool industry, whose unremitting toil
has contributed so substantially to Aus-
tralia’s prosperity, We take this oppor-
tunity of expressing our thanks for the
confidence shown in our product and
the constantly increasing support it
enjoys.
ELASTRATOR
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.
125 William Street
Melbourne
IJT 1
Burrundulla (G. Cox), Rawdon
(E. K. Cox), Havilah (N. P.
Bayley) and James Riley.
Springfield has ‘a special
interest today as one of the few
great studs which has no Peppin-
blood. When A. L. Faithfull
took over in 1871 he decided to
run two separate studs. From the
4500 ewes on Springfield he
selected 63 fine-woolled and 82
strong-woolled ewes. For the
fine-woolled stud he bought a
Rawdon ram, “No. 43,” sired by
one of E. K. Cox’s Lichnowski
rams. Progeny was mated with
an L.U.E. ram. In 1872 he
bought 20 rams from L.U.E. and,
in 1875, a ram from E. S. Antill,
“No. 01,” which was out of a
Havilah ewe by a St. Johnstone
(Tas.) ram. In 1877 20 ewes from
St. Johnstone and 20 Gibson and
Gatenby ewes; all from
Tasmania.
From" then on, excepting an
outstanding experiment in 1885
and an abortive experiment in
1911, only Tasmanian blood
was used. Of these, one out-
standing ram was bred by J. D.
Toosey, of Cressy; the rest were
from St. Johnstone. In 1885 A.
L. Faithfull bought San Joa-
chim, a De Laine Merino from
California. This ram had a
wonderful belly-covering, and
this quality in Springfield sheep
is generally traced to his
influence.
Since 1871 Springfield has been
a closed stud. After the death
of A. L. Faithfull in 1942 the
stud was carried on by the
executors until the estate was
wound-up, then by a company
on behalf of the beneficiaries.
In the 1830’s in Victoria (as
yet unnamed) John Aitkin, Mrs.
Furlonge’s son Andrew, Henry
Anderson, A. and W. C. Yuille,
C. Gray, J. G. Ware, T. and S.
Learmonth, the Baillie brothers
were establishing their flocks. In
the undefined territory further
west the South Australian Com-
pany imported its first sheep. By
1844 the company owned nearly
40,000 sheep, including some
imported Merinos. And in
Queensland —then Moreton Bay
—the first Merinos, owned by
the Government, had arrived.
THE outstanding names in the
early development of the
South Australian Merino are
Murray, Fisher, Angas and
Hawker.
In 1843 the first sheep were
brought to Mount Crawford,
Williamstown, by A. B. Murray.
These were ewes and a ram
bought from ‘ Duncan
McFarlane, Mount Barker
(S.A.), and came from N.S.W. in
1839. To these sheep were
added 100 ewes bought by the
original John Murray from
McVittie, of Blumberg (S.A.),
which were in lamb to a Tas-
manian ram. From the blending
of these two flocks the Murray
Merinos of today are descended ;
no outside blood being intro-
duced since the foundation of the
stud.
After John Murray’s death in
1886 the flock was divided
between the four sons: thus the
start of the Rhine Park, Mount
Beevor, Mount Crawford and
Capeedee studs. Rhine Park, at
Eden Valley, is now owned by
J. Elliott Murray ; Capeedee by
Walter S. Murray and Son.
Catarpo and Petherton, at Mount
Bryan, derives from the original
Murray blend ; now Catarpo, the
stud was inherited by A. R.
Murray in 1947.
Over the years sires have been
exchanged by the various
members of the Murray family,
thus establishing a climatic
outcross.
Bungaree, Brinkworth, was
established by G. C. Hawker in
1841, with 2000 ewes of Camden
Park-blood, in lamb to Steiger
rams, bought from Thomas
Icely, Carcoar (N.S.W.), and
overlanded to Bungaree. After
the death of G. C. Hawker the
stud was carried on by his sons
until 1906, when the flock was
divided into equal parts: these
are now called Anama, East
Bungaree - Belcunda, North
Bungaree and Bungaree.
Another old-established South
Australian stud is Anlaby, at
Kapunda. F. H. Dutton started
the flock in 1839, with 4000 ewes
bought from the Howes at Yass
(N.S.W.) and 1000 from the
Stuckies, same district. Still in
the Dutton family.
Canowie, the old Sheoak stud,
was founded in 1897 by T.
One of the old originals: Spanish Merino ram, about 1790
Goode, who managed Canowie
and J. H. Angas’s property, Hill
River, for many years. Goode
selected ewes and rams from the
original Canowie flock.
Boconnoc Park and Mana-
narie, Clare, began in 1896 with
the purchase of 2030 ewes and
51 rams from the estate of
Hawker of Bungaree. Clarevale,
at Brinkworth, is the former
Renfrew stud, founded in 1908
by A. Maitland, from the Anama
flock; which goes back to
Bungaree.
Of the earlier flocks, Hynam
was established m 1844 by Adam
Smith. Original sheep were
Camden-blood, of the Victorian
strain. No other blood was used
until 1862, when three Steiger
rams were imported from
Germany. From 1876 on, Tas-
manian rams were used, from
the famous Bellevue, Parramore
and Scone studs. Mount
Remarkable was founded in
1845, on stock bought from the
South Australian company, pure
Saxony-blood; among them,
rams from the Steiger, Leutwitz
and Nischwitz studs. Later Tas-
manian- and French-blood. Mt.
Remarkable wool won prizes in
Paris and Philadelphia.
C. B. Fisher established Levels
in 1854, with Hill River and
Bundaleer rams on N.S.W.-blood
ewes. He tried French, German
and Australian rams, but dis-
carded them all and used rams
of his own breeding. Flock was
split into three lots to avoid too-
close inbreeding.
J. H. Angas started the Hill
River flock about 1850, with
ewes from Levels, Mount
Remarkable and Canowie. In
1885 Angas bought, in Mel-
bourne, the famous ram
Hercules, bred at St. Johnstone
(Tas.), for £1207 10s. Two years
later he bought Caesar, of the
Sir Robert strain, from the same
stud. Hill River-blood was
widely used in South Australia,
Queensland, Western Australia
and New South Wales.
The original Canowie was
founded in 1857 by Saunders,
James and Co.; managed by
Goode. Original ewes were
selected from those on the
property, which were of a good
type, but there was no record
of their breeding. Negrette rams
were used on these ewes, and
they were bred up to this type for
years. Canowie-blood was used
a lot in the Riverina (N.S.W.) at
one time.
Koonoona, Burra, was
founded by Duffield and Porter
in 1863, with 100 Hill River ewes
and Mt. Crawford rams. In
1906 blood from Wanganella
Estate was introduced and, since,
Koonoona has had a fair bit of
Peppin-blood.
Collingrove was founded by
John Angas in 1887 on Hill River
sheep.
Collinsville, at Mt. Bryan, was
founded by John Collins in 1895,
with Koonoona rams and ewes.
In South Australia, in general,
a large-framed type, suited to hot,
dry conditions, evolved; wool
strong. Good doers and plain-
bodied. Except for the early
French and German importa-
tions, the main studs bred from
within the flock for many years.
Then the Tasmanian-blood —
especially the Sir Thomas strain
of Parramore, and the Scone-
bloOd—and, later, the Peppin-
blood. Today the Peppin-blood
is pretty well dispersed through
the leading studs, with the
Murrays notable exceptions.
ATTENTION has been made of
Mrs. Furlonge, of Kenil-
worth (Tas.). She selected rams
and ewes from the best studs in
Saxony before Celling her farm
in England and settling in Tas-
mania ; with the Saxon Merinos
o Continued on next page )


Soon you Will have
Your Opportunity
to invest in
More Haddon Rig Sires
Wm
m
m
5386
'fi
This magnificent ram, No. 137 pc Special Sire
No. 70, is one of five Haddon Rig Special Stud
Rams to he offered at the Sydney Ram Sales.
Next month, a particularly strong and uni-
form team will represent Haddon Rig Stud
at the Sydney Ram Sales. These splendid
rams possess all the exceptional qualities that
buyers are accustomed to expect from Aus-
tralia’s foremost Merino Stud, with its un-
rivalled record of 73 years of consistently
successful breeding.
The 1955 Sales Team compares very favour-
ably with its predecessors not excluding the
117 rams that secured top aggregate last year—
the fifteenth successive Sales at which this
, distinction has gone to Haddon Rig. Drought
and flood during the last twelve months
emphasise that Haddon Rig Sires are sturdy,
robust and adaptable to all conditions.
Five Special Stud Rams will be offered. The
leader is No. 137, sired by No. 70, one of
whose progeny brought 3000 guineas at the
1954 Sales. The balance of the team com-
prises 41 Stud Rams and 68 Selected Rams.
Outstandingly uniform in quality, all are
worthy representatives of Haddon Rig. ,
Whether you will be bidding in person or
through an agent, remember that Haddon Rig
Rams are an investment that is second to
none.
HADDON RIG STUD
Warren, N.S.W. Telephone: Warren 74
HR2-55
m
Combat MINERAL DEFICIENCIES
in SHEEP and CATTLE with
MINDIF MINERAL LICKS
Economical —Efficient —Easy to handle —Rain resistant
Licks of 4\lb. and 15lb.
b<X>TS PURE DRUG CO. (AUST.)
PTY. LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH
One son, Andrew, took his share
to Victoria. In Tasmania the
Furlonge strain was to run
through the famous St. Johnstone
and Old Winton sheep ; thence,
as can be seen, through some of
the best flocks in Australia.
In Victoria the Furlonge sheep
were a foundation of the Ercil-
doune stud, started by T. and S.
Learmonth in 1837. And
Thomas Shaw, of Woorriwyrite,
one of the great breeders, started
his flock with Ercildoune ewes,
mated with rams from Camp*
bell’s flock of Camden Park
(Macarthur) Merinos.
Development of Victorian
studs in the 1830’s and 1840’s
was very rapid: Koolamurt,
Booryalloak, Nareeb Nareeb,
Stony Point, Mount Fyans,
Ercildoune, Carngham, Larra;
Jellalabad in 1851, Terrinalum in
1857 and Wooriwyrite the same
year. Ellingurran and Green
Hills started in the ’sixties, Brie
Brie and Berry Bank in the
’eighties.
Victorian sheep were begin-
ning to cOme into the Riverina
and westerly parts of N.S.W.,
and, later, to go up to Queens-
land, where, in the 1840’s, Archer
and Company introduced
Mudgee-blood when they took
over Coonambulla. When the
property was sold, half the flock
went to Gracemere, where
Negrette rams were used. Later
the entire flock went to Minnie
Downs, Tambo, the stud’s
present address.
Also in Queensland, Welltown,
at Goondiwindi, was taken up by
J. and W. Low in 1856. They
used Brindley Park ewes and
Warroo rams.
Among the first pure flocks
was Glengallan, to which John
Denchar brought 100 ewes
derived from Brindley Park
(N.S.W.), and a ram, Billy, by
a German sire. That was in
1855. Five years earlier Hodgson
and Watts had started Eton Vale
on ewes of Brindley Park-blood,
using Steiger rams later.
Denchar, too, imported rams
from Germany.
G. Clark bought 130 ewes and
three rams from Thomas Shaw,
of Victoria, in 1867, thereby
starting East Talgai; a few years
before J. Bell started the Jimbour
flock, with German rams and
ewes on the property. Ercil-
doune (Vic.) rams were used
later. Then two Spanish rams.
Headington Hill was an off-
shoot of Levels ; Fisher
bringing his own ewes
and rams up from
South Australia.
G. M. Simpson
started Bon Accord in
1870. Strathdarr, at
Longreach, began in
the ’seventies or early
’eighties. In 1871 D.
Gunn founded Pike
Dale with imported
Negrettes, using no
other blood, and refus-
ing to sell a ram. His
sheep were big and
hardy and many rams
cut fleeces of 201 b
one of 24|lb. At the
Paris Exhibition in
1878 Pike Dale wool
won a gold medal.
Malvern Hill, at*
Blackall, started in
1882. Maneroo, at
Longreach, formerly
Retro, had a stud-flock
of Tasmanian Merinos
when the Australian
Mercantile Land and Finance
Co., Ltd., bought it in 1906.
Terrick Terrick, at Blackall,
started in 1896 —a few years after
Isis Downs. Portland Downs, at
Ilfracombe, began in 1894;
Toplmaree, at Charleville, in
1898 ; Umbercallie, at Goondi-
windi, in 1890.
Which brings us down to the
year when Sir Frederick
McMaster started Dalkeith, three
years before Sir Walter Merri-
man took his share of his father’s
stud and started Merryville, and
four years after Sir Samuel
McCaughey’s big buying-spree
in the United States; practically
modern times.
A GOOD deal had been hap-
pening in New South Wales
since the Cox family, Riley,
Walker and others began to grow
the Mudgee type of wool. Other
Cox studs —Wallinga and Cullen-
bone —had been established, and,
in 1864, George Rouse had
founded Birangambil, on
Havilah- and Rawdon-blood.
To look back a moment. In
1813 the Blue Mountains were
crossed, opening-up the country
beyond—Mudgee, Bathurst —for
sheep. In 1810 there were 34,000
sheep in the colony; by 1820
there 156,000; and by 1843, 12
million. Settlement spread to
the tablelands country around
Bathurst and Mudgee, then
followed the rivers.
“As well attempt to confine an
Arab within a circle traced on
sand, as to confine the graziers
or woolgrowers of New South
Wales within bounds that can
possibly be assigned to them,”
Governor Gipps wrote in 1840.
In August, 1850, the Australian
Colonies Government Act made
Port Phillip a separate colony
“to be known and designated as
the colony of Victoria.” Letters
patent of June 6, 1859, made the
old penal-territory of Moreton
Bay “a separate colony to be
called the colony of Queensland.”
Mudgee- and Tasmanian-blood
had been predominant through-
out the Australian sheep-
country ; and these types were to
be influential for a good many
years yet. But with the opening
of the western lands, the search
for a different type of Merino
began. The Wanganella-type, as
bred first by Peppin and
developed by his successors, was
to become the dominant type of
the Australian Merino.
In 1852 J. K. Salter began
breeding Rambouillets at Liver-
pool Plains (N.S.W.). Up to the
1850’s the Rambouillet-blood
had not been a success in Aus-
tralia ; but on the plains the
larger-framed Rambouillet had
definite advantages.
In 1858 or 1861 (authorities
disagree on the date) Fred
Peppin bought Wanganella from
W. Brodribb, “and with it the
sheep.” Cox, in his Evolution
of the Australian Merino, says
the sheep had infusions of
Furlonge- (Victoria), Tasmanian-
and Mudgee-blood, and gives
details of Brodribb’s buying:
12,788 sheep at Twofold Bay in
January, 1857, and 6971 sheep
from Campbell at Bathurst, for
7s. a head, the same year. Also
3304 sheep from Maneroo (his
Wrinkles galore: Vermont type, similar to those imported
here towards the end of last century.
original holding), bought from
Victorian breeders Cassell, Cos-
grove and Graham for ss. 4d. a
head, and 4000 bought at 10s.
a head from Hamilton and
Graham.
“In March, 1858,” says Cox,
“Brodribb sold South Wan-
ganella to Peppin and Sons with
8000 sheep. It was from this
8000 that Shaw chose the 200
ewes which, with the 100 Canally
ewes, were to found the Wan-
ganella stud.” Thomas Shaw,
of Victoria, was a great hand
with sheep. “The exact breeding
of the Canally ewes is not
definitely known, except that
they had a large infusion of
Rambouillet, and according to
Mr. Bennett, at that time
manager of Canally, were mainly
of Cox- and Havilah-blood in
origin. The rams being used by
Peppin up to the foundation of
the stud were of Cox- and
Havilah-blood. Having decided
upon the ewes to found his stud,
Peppin joined Rambouillet and
German rams with them, and
used these rams up to 1865.”
The Australian Stud Merino
Flock Register, in the section
headed “Austin-Wanganella Co.
Pty., Ltd.,” states: “This stud
was founded by Peppin and Sons
in 1861 by the selection of 200
of the best Wanganella, F.
No. 83, ewes and 100 ewes bred
by N. Chadwick, Canally,
N.S.W., and sired by an imported
Rambouillet ram.”
Notes put out by the Sheep
and Wool Department of the
Sydney Technical College put it
thus: “As far as can be ascer-
tained, the Peppins started with
a mixture of selected large-
framed Saxony ewes, and some
South Australian-blood ewes
from Canally.”
There are similar contradic-
tions concerning the rams used
by Peppin. Austin, in The
Merino, Past, Present and
Probable, draws attention to the
radical change of type, and is
convinced English Leicester-
blood was used —a mutton-
sheep !
The majority opinion is that
four Rambouillet rams were used
in the early ’sixties. One of these,
Emperor, is said to have had
considerable influence on the
evolution of the stud ; also, that
German rams were used. Then,
in 1866, three rams were
imported from America and one,
Grimes, was used.
Cox and the official register
state that Grimes was an
Infantado (Infantados were the
ancestors of the Rambouillet).
The register has this to add:
“Mr. Peppin told A. Austin that
Grimes’s progeny were not quite
satisfactory, and were eliminated
as much as possible.” Cox’s
comment: “It is going rather far
to state—as has been so often
said—that the introduction of the
Old Grimes-blood made the
Wanganella stud; but it
certainly helped considerably.”
Another authority writes that
Peppin used, with Emperor, “A
superior type of plain-bodied
Vermont ram.”
So there is already something
legendary about the beginning of
the Peppin strain. To get on to
firmer ground, it seems to be
well established that, after 1866,
no outside blood was introduced.
“Experiments were made with
some rams from the leading Vic-
torian flocks, but the produce
were not satisfactory, and were
eliminated from the flock.”
(.Australian Stud Merino Flock
Register.) Peppin seems to have
found the type he wanted.
In 1874 a double stud-flock
was formed. T, F. Cumming (a
great Victorian breeder) chose
the foundation-ewes —365 from
the stud-flock. Seven rams were
picked from the stud-flock. In
1878 Peppin Estate sold Wan-
ganella and Boonoke. Austin
and Millear bought Wanganella,
taking the double-stud and half
the original stud. F. S. Falkiner
and Co. (consisting of Falkiner,
Ross and McKenzie; Falkiner
bought out Ross and McKenzie
in 1882) bought Boonoke, taking
half the original stud. In 1894
Austin and Millear dissolved
partnership, equally dividing
Wanganella property and sheep.
T. Millear died in 1895, and
F. S. Falkiner bought his
property —the eastern half of
Wanganella, now called Wan-
ganella Estate —and the sheep.
But another stud, Uardry, at
Hay, was an earlier offshoot of
the Peppin-strain. In 1864
Wragge and Hearn bought 5000
ewes and rams from Peppin, and
chose the foundation-stock for
Uardry stud from these sheep.
In 1876 Charles Mills bought
Uardry and sheep. He bred from
within the stud, mainly, with
occasional additions of Peppin-
blood. This stud became a
company Charles Mills
(Uardry) Pty., Ltd.—in 1915.
The additions give an indication
of , the interlocking of Peppin-
blood and, at the same time, the


FOOT POT
anofSCMD
Non-irritant to sheep or operator’s
hands. Contains no copper, arsenic,
acid or caustic. Insoluble in water
will not wash off, 25/- tin
Chemists, Stores or Sykes Drench
1 H'UI 1M&, CJIUICB U 1 *-*v**..*
A Ltd., South Melbourne.
\/r sr/c#s..j#ew/rFeAf£&AT£S/
LYSAGHT
SHEEP SEIF
FEEDER...
Es °£R
m
K
■*<*
$ f «&*'*+•
YJ
CZ
Iliilfli
55
!>•
•fe;
J
51
Sliding Hinged Roof for ease in filling.
50 BUSHELS CAPACITY.
Rigid construction with Heavy Gauge
Sheets.
Adjustable Hooks vary opening for
different grades of feed.
Swinging Trough prevents blockage.
Sloping Sides prevent build-up of feed
in Troughs.
Head Barrier prevents strangling.
Sturdy Skid Base and Lugs for Towing.
0 Overall Trough length, 16ft. (Bft. each side).
PRICE: (Assembled or Prefabricated)
£42 (At Works)
Write for further information and agents' names to
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
or JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD., in all capital cities
Memory for details
August 30, 1954.
With Pelmanism I have made defi-
nite progress. I am much more confi-
dent about my memory for details,
and I observe more closely and accu-
rately.—Q.A., 1340, Medical Prac-
titioner.
Does not run away
West Aust., Jan. 19, 1955.
I find that, instead of running away,
I am now able to face my problems
and shortcomings, and the Pelman
lessons may invariably be depended
upon for assistance. —W.R., 2014,
Domestic Duties.
Climbing back
N.S.W., August 24, 1954.
■ I have derived the outstanding
benefit of being able to climb surely
back to the position from which I
fell due to a nervous breakdown.
Pelmanism has given me a greater
confidence in being able to overcome
scientifically the fears that beset me
previously.—N.O., 767, Audit Clerk.
Inferiority overcome
Qld., November 29, 1954.
I have made a lot of progress
toward overcoming inferiority trouble.
. . . my ability and competence have
increased considerably.—Q.G., 1918,
Asst. Station Master.
A completely new life
S. Aust., November 30, 1954.
From Pelmanism I learned that one
does not need to labour under the
frustrating, enfeebling domination of
inferiority-consciousness, but that with
the right approach and proper train-
ing this disability can be banished
and one can live a completely new
life. That was my discovery when I
studied the Pelman Course and
applied its principles to my life. —
5.8., 3067, Minister of Religion.
Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute: London.
Establ. Melbourne 1907.
The Melbourne Branch has en-
rolled over 85,000 men and women
in Australia and New Zealand.
Services Approval
Members of the Per-
manent Forces are asked
to inquire about Pelman-
ism, which is approved as
a basic course by the
S.B.C.C. See your Edu-
cation Officer, or write
the Pelman Institute.
PELHIANISM
is scientific training
of mind, memory
and personality
Pelmanism is a training by means of which the powers
of men and women are extended fully in their occupations,
social life and peculiar interests. It is adult education in a
most agreeable, practical and effective form.
The effects of Pelmanism are quick and permanent. In
seeking the development of the following qualities, habits are
formed which are immediately useful and which persist and
strengthen: —
Observation
Will-Power
Decision
Self-Confidence
Judgment
Interest-Power
Concentration
Initiative
Social Ease
and a thoroughly dependable memory
The Exercises are pleasant, and each has its special
purpose. Most of them are related to the daily life and
activities of the pupil.
“THE EFFICIENT MIND” describes, in detail, The Pelman Course.
Copies are posted free on application to The Pelman Institute, 3
Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. All inquiries are
regarded as confidential. The Institute has no outside representatives.
New Zealand Inquirers
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrange-
ments to meet the financial
restrictions and enable resi-
dents of New Zealand to
enrol for the Pelman Course
of Training without delay.
Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,
TO THE PELMAN INSTITUTE
3 Gloucester House, Flinders Fane,
Melbourne.
Please send me. free and post free, a
copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
266
blossoming of studs from the
same source.
Rams: From Boonoke, F.
No. 7—1909—10; Haddon Rig,
F. No. 48—1922, 2; 1924, 5 ,
1925, 1 ; Wahwoon No. 2, F.
No. 754-1932-36, 7 leased each
year.
Ewes: From Deniliquin Stud
Park North, F. No. 195—1950,
42; Deniliquin Stud Park, F.
No. 650—1950, 18.
Boonoke, near Deniliquin,
(N.S.W.), is, of course, the
original Falkiner stud —F. S.
Falkiner and Sons, since 1899.
Haddon Rig, at Warren, was
founded in 1882 by James Rich-
mond, with 30 rams and 1900
ewes bought from Austin and
Millear, Wanganella. In 1906
Haddon Rig was bought by
F. B. S. Falkiner, son of F. S.
Falkiner and brother of Otway.
G. B. S. Falkiner has run the
stud since 1932. Wahnoon No. 2,
at Hay, is owned by A. A.
Neilson Mills and Son —
Wahnoon No. 1, same owners —
and was established in 1932, with
stock from Uardry and Pembel-
gong, both owned by Charles
Mills and Co. Deniliquin Stud
Park is a Millear property,
as. is Deniliquin Stud Park
North; both deriving from
Wanganella.
TN 1860 Sir Samuel McCaughey
established a stud-flock at
Coonong, near Narranderra, with
aged ewes from Widgewa. He
imported rams from the Lich-
nowski stud in Silesia and, in
1866, used two rams from Ercil-
doune (Vic.); then two rams
from Gobson, of Bellevue (Tas.).
In 1873 McCaughey bought
200 rams from Bayley, of
Havilah; in 1874, 1000 rams
from Havilah ; and in 1875 the
whole year’s draft of 2000.
Also, a little later, ewes from
Ercildoune (Vic.) and a ram
from Birangambil.
Sir Samuel McCaughey
believed in doing things in a big
way. He had many properties,
and once he had set his mind on
a particular type he tried to get
that type as quickly as possible.
Writer spent some of his forma-
tive years under the shadow, so
to speak, of a large portrait of
Sir Samuel, glowering in court-
dress from the top of a flight of
stairs; and something of his
methods could be read in that
strong, North Irish face.
About this time McCaughey
admired the sheep bred by
Bayley, of Havilah ; a matter of
interest, since one thinks of him,
mainly, as an advocate of wrinkly
sheep. But Bayley insisted on
plain-bodied sheep to a point
where—as E. W. Cox records —
he objected to neck-folds. In
1881 McCaughey bought 3000
aged ewes from Havilah. The
same year he bought 100 special
ewes from L.U.E.
He bought in this manner from
several studs, including Wan-
ganella and Boonoke. By this
time Coonong had a considerable
reputation as a stud. But he
wanted heavier fleeces: he had
also formed the opinion that a
heavy, yellow yolk was necessary
to protect the wool in hot
weather. In 1883 he bought 10
Californian rams. Satisfied with
these, he went to America and
bought more. At shearing, 16 of
his American rams cut fleeces
averaging nearly 301 b. greasy
and 111 b. scoured.
McCaughey bought Vermonts
on a big scale and, after a time,
many breeders went in for
Vermonts. McCaughey sheep
scooped the pool at successive
shows.
By 1905 the tide had turned.
The wrinkly sheep were not
suited to the country, and the
wool was inferior to that of the
Australian Merino. Many
flocks had been ruined by a too-
enthusiastic use of Vermont-
blood.
The present Coonong studs,
Coonong 1 and 2, owned by
D. R. McCaughey, are Peppin
studs. Coonong 1 was founded
by Sir Samuel in 1907, when he
transferred 1000 Peppin-blood
ewes from Goolgumbla, Jeril-
derie ; Coonong 2 is an offshoot.
Early rams used were from
WangaUella Estate, Wanganella,
Willandra, Haddon Rig and
Bundemar.
WIDGEWA, fouhded by
James Cochran, was a
famous N.S.W. stud which began
in the ’sixties. Barooga, the
McFarland brothers’ stud, was
another; also Groongal,
Mulwala, Mahonga.
Yarrawin, at Brewarrina, was
established by W. and T. C.
Dickson in 1875, when the
station sheep were replaced by
3000 ewes and lambs from T.
Cumming of Stony Point Sta-
tion, Koort Nong (Vic.). Ercil-
doune and Rambouillet rams
later joined the flock, but in
1886 the stud bought a big
draft of sheep from Austin and
Millear, and so switched to the
Wanganella type.
Hazeldean, at Cooma, is par-
ticularly interesting as an
example of a successful blend of
bloods for a particular type of
country—the Monaro. In 1865
James Litchfield started the stud
with pure Rambouillets. In 1879
a series of importations from
Tasmania —Fairfield, St. John-
stone, Bellevue, Esk Vale and
Mona Vale studs —began: the
aim being to combine the large
frame of the original flock with
the fine to superfine wool and
cold-weather qualities of the
Tasmanians.
Gostwyck, at Uralla, goes
further back —to the 1830’s, when
Henry Dangar started it: it is
not known where the original
sheep came from, except that
they were of Saxony-blood.
From 1854 until the first sale of
Tasmanian rams in Sydney, in
1878, Gadagast and Steiger rams
imported from Saxony were used
fairly frequently. From then
until 1922 only Tasmanian rams;
and since then, C. C. Dangar
Estate has used both Tasmanian
and Peppin rams.
Merryville, at Yass, stems from
G. Merriman’s stud, Ravens-
worth. In 1903 Walter (later Sir
Walter) Merriman took his share
of his father’s flock and founded
Merryville stud. There have been
many additions of the Peppin-
strain to the foundation-stock of
Mudgee- and Tasmanian-blood.
Merryville-Murgha, a separate
stud, was established by Merri-
man in 1921, when he bought
680 stud-ewes at the Murgha
dispersal-sale—Murgha being an
offshoot of Austin, Wanganella.
The bulk of the Murgha stock
was bought by Charles Mills, of
Uardry, and has been bred from
within, under the name
Pembelgong.
The names of the Peppin-strain
studs multiply ; either (as in the
case of Dalkeith, deriving from
the old Cassilis stud of William
Busby, and switching to Boonoke
flock-7-blood under the manage-
ment of Sir Frederick McMaster,
in 1899) from an introduction
of the line, or as offshoots of
the parent-studs; as Willandra
(1894: Wanganella and
Boonoke); Raby (1898: Wan-
ganella Estate); Bundure (1899:


lou can
insure wool
from...
sheep’s back
to store...
and until
fall of the
hammer...
Consult Lumleys—the originators of
this form of Insurance in Australia
FARMERS'
AND GRAZIERS' INSURANCE
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD., INSURANCE
HOUSE, 263 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. Tel.: B 0538
★ SPECIALISTS IN
'S
Also at Newcastle, Lismore, Armidale, Wollongong
and all Capral Cities in the Commonwealth.
GERRARD Automatic RING FASTENER
GUN
Ties wire netting
at 25 yds. per minute
As fast as you can squeeze its easy-working
handles, this self-feeding gun effortlessly clamps
the cement-adhered staples into sturdy fin. rings,
which are automatically fed into the jaws.
Gerrard Ring Fastener Gun can be used for
securely fastening or joining all manner of things.
There is no wastage —the job is neat and strong
Ring Fasteners are sold in packets of 1000.
GERRARD RING FASTENER GUN 6 %
GERRARD GALVANISED RING FASTENERS 11/- per 100
Readily available from ALL WOOL HOUSES
Manufactured by Gerrard Engineering Pty. Ltd., 18-24 Ireland St., West Melbourne.
Murgha); Baratta (1893: Wan-
ganella ; Wanganella Estate;
Murgha); Bairnkine (1895:
Haddon Rig); Eli Elwah (1906:
Austin-Wanganella); Bundemar
(1901: Wanganella Estate);
Coonong, Mungadal and many
more.
Many of these later studs have
also been the parents of studs
in various States. As, for
instance, Bundemar, at Trangie
(N.S.W.), F. E. Body Estate.
In Queensland Victoria Downs
was founded by A. P. Lord in
1911 on Wanganella-bloods;
rams have come from Deniliquin
Stud Park, Wanganella Estate,
Haddon Rig and Bundemar. Isis
Downs has had rams from
Bundure, Wanganella, Uardry,
Wanganella Estate. Glendower
was started in 1921 with 1000
ewes and 14 rams from Murgha ;
and so on.
Egelabra, at Warren (N.S.W.),
goes a long way back. Thus the
Australian Merino Stud Flock
Register : —
About the year 1790 the King ot
Spain presented some Merino sheep
to the Dutch Government, a portion
of which were sent to the Cape
Colony ...
The Register gives the story of
how Waterhouse acquired them.
The Egelabra flock derives from
that of the Rev. Samuel
Marsden.
According to E. W. Cox,
Marsden acquired some Merinos
from Waterhouse, and crossed
them with his Bengal- and Cape-
sheep. Then, when William Cox
bought Waterhouse’s flock in
1810, Marsden bought more of
these, and also some from
Captain Rowley. Subsequently,
Marsden became more interested
in mutton; but (the Flock
Register continues) “Marsden's
[Merino] flock was moved to
Gamboola, Molong (N.S.W.),
which property was owned by
his nephew, W. M. Betts.” There
were very early grants to
Marsden in the Molong district,
and Cox thinks it probable he
moved his Merinos there in the
late 1820’s or early 1830’s.
About 1840 John Smith bought
the property and sheep from
Betts. Eight years later he bought
rams from the Australian Agri-
cultural Co., and later imported
Negrette rams from Spain.
Kater Brothers, then owners of
Mumblebone, Warren, bought
75 ewes and a ram from Smith
in 1879. Then, for several suc-
cessive years, they bought the
Gamboola cast-for-age ewes,
with rams to serve them. No
other blood has been used since
the formation of the stud ; addi-
tions from other flocks being:
from 1879 to 1885, several
hundred annually from Gam-
boola and, in the 1940’5, rams
(lambs) from Woodside—which
was founded on Egelabra-blood,
in 1936, at Warren, by S. V.
Wass.
Like Bocomble, at Mudgee,
Egelabra goes back to the very
early days; but Bocomble, of
later years, has had admixtures of
other strains ; notably Kaludabah
(derived from Ardgour, an F. E.
Body Estate stud at Quirindi) and
Merryville. So Egelabra, with
the Faithfull stud at Goulburn,
Havilah at Mudgee, some Vic-
torian studs such as Baruna
Plains at Hesse, Carngham near
Ballarat, Eurambeen, at Beau-
fort and the Murray group in
South Australia (and, later,
Western Australia) is an out-
standing example of the non-
Peppin strain on the mainland.
In Tasmania, the Saxony type
has been retained . . .
HERE, then —necessarily in
outline—is a ranging over
the main lines of development of
our Australian sheep and the
individuals and families who
bred them. There are living
representatives of those families
who go back a long way. As
typical, two of these met in
recent weeks:
Sir Norman Kater, head of
H. E. Kater and Sons Pty., Ltd.,
is 80. A cousin of A. B.
(“Banjo”) Paterson, he is a man
of many interests and achieve-
ments.
Graduating with honors in
medicine (with a couple of prizes
thrown in), he was a resident at
Prince Alfred, Sydney, and did a
little private practice before
being recalled to handle the
affairs of the stud on the death
of his brother.
In 1914, feeling a little rusty
on medical matters, and the
Army feeling he was a bit old
for active service, he went to
Egypt on a Red Cross job, but
subsequently joined the French
Medical Corps in France; for
work there, Chevalier de la
Legion d’Honneur. Tried to
join the A.I.F. in England, was
told he would have to go back
to Australia, did, and finished up
as an M-O. here.
Since then he’s been reasonably
active; M.L.C., president of
the Graziers’ Association and on
the boards of a string of com-
panies, including Colonial
Sugar and Grazcos. Re-
cently he’s retired from some
of his directorial duties and from
the Legislative Council, but he
still takes a keen interest in
Egelabra. Interviewed in his
office in O’Connell - street,
Sydney, it was hard to believe his
age . . .
Otway Falkiner, son of F. S.
Falkiner and head of the great
Wanganella Estate - Boonoke
concern, is also 80. He sold his
first rams in 1886, at the age of
12, to Hugh Armstrong, of
Milroy, who had turned up,
demanding rams, a month earlier
than expected, when F. S.
Falkiner was in New Zealand.
Young Otway sent an urgent
appeal for advice to his father,
and received the reply: “Use
your discretion.”
He’s been using it ever since,
and selling a good many rams:
recent figures are around 10,000
annually; 6000 Boonoke rams,
2000 Poll Boonoke rams and
2000 Wanganella Estate rams.
The firm has lately established
another stud at Longreach, in
Queensland, flocks being trans-
ported there in motor-lorries.
An inestimable saving to the
sheep, Mr. Falkiner remarked;
one truck is kept free for sheep
which go down, or are a bit
sick.
Regarding the Peppin founda-
tion-flock, Mr. Falkiner said he
had often wondered. He men-
tioned some names. He had
always understood the Canally
ewes were from South Aus-
tralia. But he had a curious story
about “Old Grimes,” which, so
far as he knows, has never been
published.
Clough and Co., in Melbourne
—forerunners of Goldsbrough
Mort—had, he said, imported
some ewes and rams; Steigers
and Rambouillets, and a large,
plain-bodied American ram.
These went for quarantine to a
Gippsland property, the owner
of which had ample opportunity
to observe them. The plain-
bodied ram — not a Vermont,
possibly a mutton-sheep—later
came into the hands of Peppin,
and was the ram known as “Old
Grimes.” Concerning whose
influence there has been much
controversy.
The story was offered as a
curiosity. Otway Falkiner had
heard it from a relative of the
Gippsland man, years after the
event. But—to join for a
moment in the intriguing sport —
it would be interesting to know
(if the other components are
accepted) whether the ram was a
De Laine. Until very recent
years the De Laine was the only
hornless strain of Merino.
Otway Falkiner developed the
other; in 1933, riding along a
fence, he noticed a ram which
had been caught in the wires and
badly blown. The idea of
developing a polled strain
occurred to him. So he set
about it.
The interesting thing about the
speculation, of course, is the fact
that the Peppins are already
taking on something of the guise
of the legendary ; passing into
myth. But, as a matter of fact,
it took a good many years for
the Peppin-strain to become
popular. In his early days,
Otway Falkiner said, rams from
Victorian studs were very
popular in the Riverina. And
the big name in sheep-breeding
for many years was Tommy
Shaw, from Victoria.
Although he had a natural
interest in such curiosities as the
“Grimes” story, writer’s impres-
sion was that Otway Falkiner
didn’t think it mattered much,
one way or the other. It wasn’t
the sheep Peppin got that
mattered, but what Peppin did
with them; the cook, not the
ingredients. Although, naturally,
one would wish for the best
ingredients. “But you can
change a sheep in five
generations.”
And, it could be added, what
the breeders who came after
Peppin of whom Otway
Falkiner, as the oldest individual,
may be taken as representative—
have done. Not forgetting the
older schools of breeders.
Already, perhaps, there is
some flavor of the mythical in
these achievements. When a
modern poet (who also happens
to be a grazier) can write, as
David Campbell did in “Soldier’s
Song,”
Though I climb the bitter rock
The jungle for a bed,
I can muster such a flock
As never Falkiner bred,
with small danger of his mean-
ing being mistaken (in conjunc-
tion with the key-lines “The
Murray’s source is in the mind,
and at a word it flows,”) a
family is already well on the
way to being absorbed in folk-
lore —though, of course, they’re
substantial enough (Mac
Falkiner, who writes an article in
this issue, is a son of Otway;
is an M.L.C. and a former presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Sheep-
breeders’ Association).
An article of this nature must,
inescapably, be incomplete. Of
later years, particularly, one can
only make a selection from a
vast number of studs. But the
very number of these indicate
that the collective Australian
Merino is in pretty good health.
A golden ram.
SHEEP-POPULATIONS
Last year’s estimate of the
general position was:
Western Australia: Total area,
975,920 sq. miles; sheep,
13,300,000.
South Australia (including
Northern Territory): Total area,
903,690 sq. miles; sheep,
11,900,000.
Victoria: Total area, 87,884
sq. miles; sheep, 21,300,000.
Queensland: Total area,
670,500 sq. miles; sheep,
17,900,000.
New South Wales (including
A.C.T.): Total area, 310,372 sq.
miles; sheep, 60,000,000.
Tasmania: Total area 26,215
sq. miles; sheep, 2,500,000.
Commonwealth: Total area,
2,974,581 sq. miles; sheep,
126,900,000.


WALTHAM
SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS
Our Inter-State coverage saves you freight charges
and ensures SPEEDY DELIVERY.
TRADING CO.
96 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
ALSO AT: 319-321 SWANSTON ST. (Head Office).
393 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE
IN OUR EXTENSIVE RANGE OF GOVERNMENT EX-SERVICE EQUIPMENT WE MAY HAVE THE VERY ARTICLE FOR WHICH YOU ARE SEARCHING, OBTAINABLE
AT A FRACTION OF THE ORIGINAL COST.
IF YOU ARE UNABLE TO MAKE A PERSONAL CALL, WRITE US YOUR SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS, OR WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR LATEST CATALOGUE.
"SPOTLIGHT SPECIAL"
Again available, a limited number of the
famous R.A.A.F. ALDIS Signalling Lamps.
These Lamps make an ideal spotlight for
shooting, etc. Fitted with 4.inch MIRROR
Reflector. 13 volt 36 watt globe. Trigger
switch in handle grip. Complete in wooden
carrying box.
£4/19/6
GENERATORS
24 volt 100 amp.
model. In ex-
cellent order.
C h e.c ke d and
tested. 2000 to
30 00 r. p. m.
Ideally suitable
for use with 24
or 32 volt light-
ing plant, and also for light welding.
PRICE £25
SPECIAL CLEARANCE OFFER
12 volt 750 watt (62 amp.) model, Type
RLX. Checked and tested. 2000 to 3500
r.p.m. PRICE £5.
FLYING GOGGLES
These Goggles
were manufac-
tured to a par-
ticularly high
standard re-
quired hy the.
Air Forces.
Type Mark
IVB. Complete
with adjust-
able sun visor. Ideally suitable for motor
cyclists, tractor and truck drivers and
racing motorists.
PRICE
Postage and Packing 4/-. Interstate 6/6.
REGULATOR AND CUT-OUT
American made by Bendix. 30 volt. Brand
new. Ideally suitable for rise with 24 or
32 volt home lighting plants, or as spare
cut-out for tractors.
PRICE £3/10/-
Postage and Packing 5/-. Interstate 6/-.
5
TRANSPARENT PLASTIC SHEETS
DU PONT
WINDSCREENS
“PLASTACELL”
t
WINDSHIELDS
SIDECURTAINS
101 USES
RIGID YET PLIABLE
“UNSHATTERABLE”
This CELLULOSE ACETATE SHEET made by Du PONT —America’s leading PLASTIC
Manufacturers, is the result of extensive war-time research and experiment, and was specially
designed for use in combat aircraft, where a light, flexible, durable material was essential.
Far superior to any other plastic sheet on the market.
This material is rigid, yet pliable, clear and non-inflammable. It can be easily cut, formed,
solvent bonded, laminated.
Use it also in Caravans, Pleasure Craft, Building Construction, Picture Frames, Models,
Window Display, Hobbies —a hundred and one uses in the Plastics Industry.
25in. x 21in. x 4.omm. approx. 5/32in. .. 42/6 50in. x 21in. x 4.omm. approx. 5/32in. .. 85/-
25in. x 21in. x s.omm. approx. 3/16in. .. 45/- 50in. x 21in. x s.omm. approx. 3/16in. .. 90/-
PUMPS
Aircraft Type Fuel Pumps
(as illustrated on left).
Suitable for pumping water
or any other liquid, 400
gallons per hour model, brand
new. Made by Thompson of America.
£3/10/-
Postage and Packing 6/-. Interstate 8/6.
DIAL SIGHTS
This 6 power panoramic
telescopic sight features a
rotating objective prism
which turns 360 degrees.
Two knobs on either side
drive a reduction gear train
to effect the rotation. A
clear azimuth scale is
marked below the rotating
head. Ideal for all types
of levelling. -The worm gear
mechanism on the telescope
makes an excellent slow
motion drive for. astronomi-
cal telescope, which would
cost a great deal more than
our price for the complete unit. Permits
extremely fine adjustment.
• £6/10/-
Postage and Packing 7/-; Interstate 10/6.
THE
"ANGLERS' DREAM"
Three-piece Whip Aerials, the bigger
brother of the two-piece of which we have
sold several thousand. These Whip Aerials
were originally manufactured as fishing
rods, and are so strong and pliable that
the Government, requisitioned the whole
output for use with radio equipment during
the war. Three 4ft. sections give 12ft.
of super tempered tubular steel.
Two types available:—
American made, screw-in type, brand new—3s/- per set. Can also be
used for car and truck aerials.
English slotted type—22/6 per set.
Two-piece model English slotted type—ls/-.
Packing and freight all States—s/- extra.
When goods are to be forwarded by rail, please add 5/- to cover packing
and delivery to railhead. Please advise nearest attended station. Sorry,
no C. 0.1).
r
J
a
SAW VICES
1%. handy gadget in any workshop —
clamp to any Bench or Table—quick
action grip holds the saw firmly and
enables any novice to
correctly file his own
saws.
PRICE
17/6 each
Postage & Packing, 3/6. Interstate, 5/-.
COUNT.* jl;* on-} O'.
V
C:
■<s»\
/
partment
COM
BEU-
GEN6» A !
TELEPHONE
EQUIPMENT
What wap once one of the most essential TIME
and KABOUR-S AVING pieces of Army equip-
ment in the field is now today’s TIME and
LABOUR-SAVING device in many MODERN
HOTELS, FACTORIES, OFFICES, STATIONS,
FARMS and HOMESTEADS.
This table model Field Telephone was used by
H.M. Forces throughout every theatre of war,
including the recent Korean campaign.
The neat appearance of the unit makes it an
attractive addition in any efficiently run
organisation.
Compact and entirely self-contained unit, in-
corporating a powerful three-bar hand gener-
ator, externally mounted, loud ringing,
double action bells, and inbuilt battery com-
partment, containing two standard 1.5 volt
portable radio batteries, which are used to
power the microphone. Complete with
standard P.M.G. type handset.
PRICE: £B/10/- Each
(Complete with Batteries)
p «>Jr I &
ruv
w 1
m 1
\ Oi I
WALL TYPE TELEPHONE built into a
polished wooden box. Dimensions, 9|in.
by Tin. by 3|in. Externally-mounted,
double-action, loud-ringing bells, fitted
with standard P.M.G. handset and genera-
tor. This telephone can be used efficiently
for communication over distances up to
20 miles.
PRICE: £6/10/- each
(Complete with Batteries)
6-line Army Field Type Switchboard, with
drop-shutter indicators, complete with
handset, cords and batteries .... £B/10/-
10-line Switchboard, Army Type, £l2/10/-
500 yard reels, single insulated Wire,
£2/10/- per reel.
3 MILE REELS SINGLE
INSULATED WIRE
£l9/10/- PER REEL
High Pressure CYLINDERS
Working pressure 18001bs. per square
inch. Dimensions 10 1 inches by 4
inches, complete with release valve.
£4/10/-
Super Sensitive
AIRCRAFT ALTIMETERS
Flush panel mounting, self-contained
instrument, which would make an
attractive addition to any dashboard.
An accurate device used in aircraft to
measure height. Heading from 0 to
50,000 feet, dial graduated in 20ft. inter-
vals. Fine jewelled movement, made
by Kollsman of America. Dimensions,
3£ inches by 4J inches deep.
£6/10/-
Postage and Packing 5/-; Interstate 6/-
BATTERIES
2 volt 20 amp. hour
in bakelite case, as
illustrated. 7in. x 3in.
x 2£in. Weight 321bs.
Suitable for model
aeroplanes or flounder
spearing. 10/- each.
24 volt 34 amp. hour,
heavy duty .. £4/17/6.
12 volt 20 amp. hour .... £2/17/6
24 volt 11 amp. hour, light
weight, aircraft model .... £l/19/6
"RADIO ENTHUSIASTS'" corner
ATS TRANSMITTER
Complete with valves and in good
condition.
£4/19/6
ATS Aerial Coupling Unit
Complete with all tuning condensers
and components in good condition.
£l/2/6
i. <»**
<m muW &
better than 2 microvolts.
12ins., weight 741bs.
Dimensions:
AMR 300
SHORT WAVE RECEIVERS
. i
The foremost High Frequency Com-
nuinications Receiver built in Aus-
tralia. Made by S.T.C. Frequency
coverage 1.5 to 24 megs. 240 volt A.C.
Ten Valves, Crystal Gate, Noise
Umiter. Specially designed to with-
stand exposure to High Tempera-
tures and Humidity. Sensitivity
Height lliins., width 21ins., depth
£47/10/-
BEACON RECEIVERS
Small sized, light weight 5 valve aircraft Receiver. Frequency coverage
195 Kcs. to 420 Kcs. I/F frequency 135 Kcs. Sensitivity 3 microvolts for 10 M.W.
output. Power output 230 M.W. Current .9 amps. 24 volts. Suitable for
conversion to car radio. Height 4ins., width 4ihs., length 6|ins., weight 41bs.
£5/17/6
MARCONI RADIO RECEIVERS 1155
10 valve aircraft communications Set. Five Bands. Frequency ranges 18.5 to
7.5 Mcs., 7.5 to 3 Mcs., 1500 to 600 Kcs., 500 to 250 Kcs., 200 to 75 Kcs., Dual
ratio dial calibrated for all hands. Easily converted to operate from 240 volt A.C.
£35
TRANSMITTER-RECEIVERS 1196
Frequency range 3 to 9 Mcs. Crystal controlled. Provision for four frequency
selections. 9 valves and complete with motor generator. 12 or 24 volt. Ideal
set for a small sea craft or bush lire brigade work.
£25
RADIO RECEIVERS Type 8C.357-L
American made. Suitable for conversion to a super regenerative high fre-
quency Receiver. Frequency 90 Mcs. Containing 1-12SQ7, 1-12C8 Valves, on
radio control Type Relay 10,000 Ohms and many other useful components.
£3/10/- complete with relay
£l/15/- less relay


IfK
vm
5 f 78?
SISS
Fi ir t -jj
r
rT
lH i|
:V A
m
hi
if 3
33-39 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Offices at
TAM WORTH and
ORANGE.
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EaUEED £71,00U,00U.
Have you looked over your will lately?
If you have not revised your Will to meet to-day’s
conditions, the consequences may be serious for someone
who depends on you. Your responsibility to that some-
one is too important to justify delaying until some
tomorrow that may never come.
Why not have a confidential talk with one of our
Senior Officers on the subject of the appointment of the
Company as your Executor and Trustee —alone or
jointly with a relative or friend.
He will help you provide for the efficient and
economical settlement of your Estate, also for its efficient
management thereafter. The final step of having your
Solicitor redraw your Will should then be a simple
matter.
If you would have particulars of the services offered
by the Company write (or ring 80377) and make an
appointment.
’DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
WOOL, which earns more of other
people’s money than any other com-
modity we produce, is a key factor in the
external sector of the economy, and one
of major importance in the internal sector,
too. The U.K., France, Japan, Italy,
Germany and the U.S. are the principal
buyers, in that order. The staple accounts
for nearly half our total exports, more
than a quarter of all primary production,
and for over 11 p.c. of the national
income. And, compared with pre-war
levels, the pi ice has risen considerably
more than that of any other export com-
modity. Hence the trade’s phenomenal
post-war prosperity, which a few years
ago became an economic embarrassment.
In addition to the annual return from
post-war clips, Australian growers have
received windfall payments totalling
£90.5 million from profits on wool bought
by the U.K. under war-time contracts —
last and final payment was £12.5 million
on April 29, 1955.
What the more distant future holds* for
wool is uncertain at the moment. The
drop in prices amounts to no more than a
healthy readjustment, without which many
people would be forced to use fabrics con-
taining little wool. No artificial fibre has
yet been produced which has all the ad-
vantages of natural wool. Obviously
much will depend upon the price
people can continue to pay for wool-
len clothing, which in turn will
depend upon the general level of
employment and wage-rates, especially
in the U.K. and Western Europe.
Earnings of those engaged in the in-
dustry depend primarily upon the relative
levels of seasons, prices and costs. Over
the last eight years seasons have been
fair to good, and prices have rocketed.
They reached their peak in 1950-51, fell
to more rational levels in the following
year, then strengthened moderately, and,
over the last two seasons, edged back to
the 1951-52 level again. The following
table, which relates to the Australian clip
as a whole, shows what has happened:
Average
Bales Sold. Value. Per Bale.
1950-51* .. 3,547,195 £636,330:574 £179/7/9
1951-52* .. 3,409,312 307,787,401 90/5/7
1952-53* .. 3,888,753 404,756,387 104/1/8
1953-54* . . 3,846,786 390,714,585 101/11/5
1954-65 f .. 3,148,552 286,462,945 90/18/2
* 12 months to June 30. f 10 months to April 30.
Final figures for the current season are
expected to show a drop of approximately
4 p.c. in volume and about 14 p.c. (£54
million) in value.
Younghusband’s is in the wool-broking,
pastoral-finance, stock- and station-
agency and merchandising business in
Victoria and southern N. S. Wales —one
of the most favored pastoral areas in
Australia from a climatic point of view
—and has been for the last 66 years,
during the last ten of which the business
has grown apace.
Over the last seven years £600,000 of
fresh share capital has been gathered,
together with £95,000 of share-premiums,
raising the total on the register to
£1,225,000, the last £350,000 of which was
issued at par in April, 1954. For the same
period divs. averaging 10.7 p.c. were paid
from declared profits averaging 13.1 p.c.
on capital, and reserves benefited by
£208,999, lifting them to £536,862. The
co.’s yearly performances since 1949
compare as follows:
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1949. • 64,109 10 p.c. = 62,500 ] inQ 397 Q 72
Written off goodwill, $l5OO ] AU
Share premiums, etc., £95,000 .. 422,972
1950.. 92,306 10 p.c. = 62,600 1 ~ 999 aqr 194
Written off goodwill. £16,584 j 13,222 436,194
1951.. 158,243 12i p.c.=109,375 48,868 485,062
1952.. 88,857 10 ~,, 87,500) ass 419
Written off goodwill, £lOOO j
1953.. 73,230 8 p.c. = 70,000 3,230 488,649
1954.. 140,354 12i „ ~109,375 30,979 519,628
Written off goodwill, £4OOO • • 515,628
1955.. 168,234 12 p;c. =147,000 21,234 536,862
* After deducting contributions to staff fund.
Last term the co. sold 112,798 bales (down
18,520 bales) wool, and the price was
down. Yet the board was able to show
£27,880 more profit, due partly to employ-
ment of additional capital and partly to
satisfactory returns from the pastoral-
finance, merchandising and stock-and-
station sections of the business. The
£168,234 of profit claimed was written
after allowing for depreciation (£29,566,
up £405), taxation (£115,000, up £5000)
and contributions ' to the staff fund
(£19,000, up £6000). It was equal to
13.7 p.c. on average capital as against
16, 8.3, 10.2, 18.1 and 14.8 p.c. back to
1950, and the cautious board is unlikely
to have overstated the position. A 2
p.c. bonus (2i p.c. for the previous term)
was added to the 10 p.c. div., making 12
p.c. for the year.
The £350,000 of new capital which
came in early in the term was used to
assist clients, the increase in advances
being £378,967:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £875,000 £875,000 £1,225,000
Reserves .. . . 488,649 519,628 536,862
Creditors, etc. .. 2,286,905 2,320,472 2,144,282
Tax reserve . . 81,000 110,000 115,000
Staff fund .. 20,000 24,500 32,302
Final div. .. 43,750 74,375 98,000
£3,795,304 £3,923,975 £4,151,446
Premises and plant 615,044 717,418 764,174
Merchandise .. 84,667 30,751 81,235
Advances, etc. .. 1,405,075 1,688,230 1,967,197
Cash, etc.... .. 1,690,519 1,587,576 1,338,840
£3,795,304 £3,923,975 £4,151,446
To reduce the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., by £176,190 and add
£46,756 to premises and plant and £50,484
to merchandise stocks, the large holding
of cash, etc., was drawn upon for
£249,336.
The coming season is assured of
a good getaway on the growing side.
Though the trend of world com-
modity prices is still downward,
there are sound reasons for hoping
that wool prices will not drift much,
if any, further. Costs look like
becoming the most troublesome factor.
The market prices the f.-p. £1 shares at
31s. sd. (275. a year ago) to return 7.6
p.c. on a 12 p.c. distribution. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is 28s. 7d.
Ready Mixed Concrete, Ltd.
IN the jargon of the market, R.M.C.’s
scrip is a “growth stock.” The organi-
sation, held in check first by war and
then post-war shortages of cement, power,
labor and equipment, has expanded
rapidly over the last four years, both at
home and abroad, but has not yet had
an opportunity to do itself full justice in
the matter of earnings, or to accumulate
much fat.
The group—parent holding co. and
half a dozen subsidiaries plus U.K. and
other interests —manufactures cement at
central plants, and, with fleets of agitator
trucks, delivers the stuff ready for im-
mediate use on the job within a couple
of hours from the time of mixing. The
parent was formed in Sydney in 1939,
and operated as a trading co. until 1945,
when the business, which had then
spread throughout the Commonwealth,
was passed to subsidiaries in the various
States.
In 1952 activities were extended to
the U.K., where there are now three
plants in the London area , and one at
Birmingham, with two more under con-
struction and another presently to be
set up at Liverpool, where land has been
bought for the purpose. Then, shortly
before the close of accounts in 1954, the
co. entered into partnership with U.S.
and Brazilian interests in a co. operating
at Rio de Janeiro. Construction work in
Brazil is said to be very active, and most
of it is reinforced concrete, owing to
shortage of steel.
Paid capital shot up from £BO,OOO in
1944 to £840,000 at June 30, 1954. To
help finance further all-round growth of
the undertaking, both in Australia and
the U.K., those on the register (pref. and
ord.) at April 27 last were offered 280,000
new £1 ords. at par, one for three. The
issue, underwritten by J. B. Were and
Son, will lift the total on the share regis-
ter to £1,120,000 in 7500 8 p.c. and 10,000
5\ p.c. prefs. and 1,102,500 ords. The
pref. divs.—which advance with the ords.
from minimum contract-rates to 8 p.c.
—and 10 p.c. to the ords. will then call
for £111,650, or £22,094 less profit than
was shown last term.
During the year to June 30 last demand,
public and private, strengthened consider-
ably, costs were steadier, and, after set-
ting aside £77,392 (up £7892) for depreci-
ation and £109,995 (up £26,891) for taxa-
tion, net earnings of the group were
£32,570 stronger at £133,744:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Pref. Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. f Ord. serves.
1949.. 16,093 600 600 6 p.c. = 15,750 13,356
7 p.c.
1950.. 29,919 600 700 7 „ „ 18,375 23,600
8 p.c.
1951.. 40,285 600 800 8 „ „ 21,000 41,485
To tax provision, £lO,OOO .. .. 31,485
Intangibles written off, £10,500 .. 20,985
1952.. 56,444 600 800 8 p.c. = 37,800 38,229
Add U.K. reserves, £48,579 .. .. 86,808
1953. 600 800 8 p.c. = 64,120 122,462
Unexplained reduction, £126 .. .. 122,336
1954. .133,744 600 800 8 p.c. = 65,800 188,880
After paying the pref. divs. (£1400), the
balance of the year’s profit was equal to
13.2 p,c. on average ord. capital, com-
pared with 12.4, 11.6, 14.8 and 10.9 p.c.
back to 1950. The div. was kept at 8 p.c.,
and the £66,544 that remained raised
reserves to £lBB,BBO. Since the close of
accounts earnings have continued on the
up-grade, and an interim at the rate of
10 p.c. p.a. has been paid for the current
term.
Of the £133,744 of profit, £101,490 (up
£26,136) was earned in Australia and
£32,254 (up £6434) in the U.K., where
the outlay on capital account was
£296,257 when the books closed. To date
profits earned in the U.K. have been
retained in the business there.
The financial position strengthened
markedly, the improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£169,680) being
£117,838:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954.
Pref. £17,500 £17,500
Ord. 822,500 822,500
Reserves .. .. .. 122,462 188,880
Outside interests .... 30 30
Creditors* 215,873 318,401
Tax provision .. .. .. 110,290 144,368
Final divs .. 33,600 33,600
£1,322,255 £1,525,279
Plant, buildings, etc. .. 910,650 859,230
Stocks 49,532 56,571
Debtors 282,171 373,536
Cash, etc 79,902 235,942
£1,322,255 £1,525,279
* Includes unspecified provision for contingencies.
On fixed assets £51,420 more was written
off than was spent. To carry an extra
£91,365 of book-debts and strengthen
the holding cash, etc., by £156,040 the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.
—it includes an unspecified provision for
contingencies—was increased by £102,528.
The market prices the f.-p. £1 ords., ex
rights, at 255. 6d. (225. 9d. a year ago)
to return 7.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
On the same basis the rights at 4s. 6d.
return 8.1 p.c., after allowing for broker-
age and dividend differences —the new
shares are payable 10s. by May 31, ss.
September 30, 1955, and ss. March 31,
1956. Including the new issue, net tan-
gible cover is 235. sd. The well-protected
prefs. seldom appear on ’Change.
South Australian Brewing Co.
OCRIP in this financially-sound and
commercially-weil-entrenched Adel-
aide brewing organisation has proved a
very satisfactory holding proposition,
especially over the last five years, and the
outlook for the business remains bright,
though future benefits to shareholders are
likely to be more widely spaced than
during the period just mentioned.
The co. enjoys a lion’s share of the
trade in its home State and at the pros-
perous and thirsty mining centre of
Broken Hill (N.S.W.) Except for the
seven slump years to 1937, when distri-
butions averaged 7 p.c., the div. has been
kept at a steady 10 p.c. since 1919,
sweetened with £250,000 of bonus-scrip
(in 1924 and 1928), and by new share-
issues at par (in 1950, 1953 and again last
month).
Since 1950 shareholders will have
put up £748,335 of fresh capital for
purchase and erection of additional hotel
properties a ; improvement of old ones,
as well as for extension and modernisa-
tion of brewery and other plant, etc.
Those on the register at May 18 welcomed
a one-for-four offer (£361,040), payable
in full by July 25. It will lift paid capital
to £1,831,455, on which 10 p.c. will call
for £21,504 less profit than was claimed
last term. Equally encouraging is the
chairman’s assurance that “the effect of
our planning over the last five years is
not yet fully reflected,” and that further
long-range planning, to keep pace with
the requirements of a steadily increasing
population, is in hand.
The co. doesn’t broadcast its production
figures, but last term’s output and sales
expanded considerably. Australian pro-
duction of beer for the year to June 30,
1954, increased by 8.6 p.c., reaching 214
million gallons, and for the eight months
to end February, 1955, was at the rate
of 247 million gallons p.a. So, after
making unspecified provisions for depre-
ciation, taxation and other contingencies,
the cautious board wrote net earnings
£23,704 stronger at £204,649:
Added to Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1050.. 92,270 10 p.c. = 72,208 20,062 465,627
Inner reserves disclosed, £194,681 .. 660,308
1951.. 133,387 10 p.c. = 108,312 25,075 685,383
1952.. 127,944 10 „ ~ 108,312 19.632 705,015
To staff fund, £10,895 .. .. 694,120
1953.. 147,422 10 p.c. = 108,312 39,110 733,230
To staff fund, £lO,OOO 723,230
1954.. 180,945 10 p.c. = 144,941 36,004 759,234
1955.. 204,649 10 „ „ 146,944 57,705 816,939
The £204,649 of profit claimed was 13.9
p.c. on average capital as against 12.8,
13.6, 11.8, 12.3 and 12.8 p.c. back to
1950, and, as the chairman pointed out,
all the assets had not developed full
earnin_ capacity. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the year’s
profit was 8.9 p.c., which suggests, among
other things, that assets are well worth
their book-value.
During the year a one-acre property
adjoining the co.’s bottling-plant in
Hindley- street was bought, and 127
separate contracts in connection with im-
provements to 97 hotels were completed.
The net addition to the book-value of
freeholds was £115,609, and to plant,
etc., £61,666:
1953. 1954. 4 1955.
Paid capital .. £1,083,120 £1,466,265 £1,470,415
Reserves .. .. 723,230 759,234 816,939
Share suspense ac/t 207,015
Overdraft .. 200,722 91,646 71,787
Creditors* .. 632,659 697,188 924,804
Staff fund .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
Final div. .. 54,156 72,733 73,521
£2,925,902 £3,112,066 £3,382,466
Freeholds .. .. 1,238,742 1,315,931 1,431,540
Plant, etc 652,064 889,525 951,191
Stocks .. .. 380,332 491,479 494,734
Book debtsf .. 363,799 360,568 460,952
Advances . . .. 82,740 53,193 42,669
Cash .. .. 208,225 1,370 1,380
£2,925,902 £3,112,066 £3,382,466
* Includes taxation. f Includes shareholdings.
To help meet the outlay on fixed assets,
add £100,384 to book-debts and snip
£19,859 off the overdraft, the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc., was in-
creased by £227,616. It is difficult to say


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
■ Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Emperor Gold Mining
Company Limited,
VATUKOULA, FIJI,
requires
MINE SURVEYORS (2)
ELECTRICIANS (2)
with some mining experience.
These positions offer excellent oppor-
tunities for advancement.
Liberal Salary and Fare Allowance will
be paid to successful applicants.
The climate is ideal, and good accommo-
dation and amenities are available for
married or single men; also schools and
excellent recreational facilities.
Applications, accompanied by copies of
credentials, should be addressed to —
THE PERSONNEL OFFICER,
COOK, TOMLINS & MIRAMS,
360 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
HE
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
CO. LTD.
IN(.l«OlANB INI
his future is
ASSURED!
It costs so little to assure your
child's life, and he can continue
the policy
himself
later on.
Protection
from
Babyhood to Retirement.
HI
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING,
Cnr. Hunter ond Bligh sts., Sydney
CLOTHES
tram
CvusaberGoth
.OOK
KEEP
Vmuf
Dai(
WaiMH
That is what a “Stamina” overcoat will do for you. It revels in
the rain; gives you snug, fireside warmth on the worst winter’s
night; makes you want to wear it because it looks so smart.
“Stamina” pre-tailored overcoats are made from double-warp
Pure Wool Crusader Cloth, winter-proofed, water-proofed, to
give, perfect protection and years of service.
“Stamina” overcoats come in three styles Raglan, Box
Chester, and Double Breasted Polo and in popular tones of
fawn and grey.
ASK FOR
Stamina
RAINCOATS
R 2113
exactly what the outside debt
amounts to, because provision
for contingencies, as well as for
taxation, is lumped with trade
creditors in the published figures.
Details of the co.’s programme
of capital expenditure have not
been announced, but a new hotel
(now in the planning stage) is to
be built at the satellite town near
Salisbury. With beer consump-
tion still on the up-grade, further
improvement in earnings can be
expected as the new share and
other capital is put to work.
Anticipating further benefits
the market prices the f.-p. ss.
shares at 13s. (ex rights) to give
an immediate return of only 3.8
p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribution.
The rights to the new issue
recently sold at Bs. Net tangible
cover (including the new issue)
is 7s. 2d.
The Coles-Manton Deal
G. J. Coles and Co., the big
variety-chain-store organisation,
is engaged in a large programme
of expansion and development,
which, when complete, will
make it the biggest of Australia’s
retail-store organisations.
Latest development is an offer
to buy all the ords. in Manton
and Son, drapers, Bourke-street,
Melbourne, paid capital £510,000
in 150,000 £l7 p.c. prefs. and
720,000 ords. of 10s. each.
The offer is 40s. cash plus one
Coles f.-p. ss. ord. for each f.-p.
10s. Manton ord., which has
a net tangible cover (book-value)
of 17s. 2d. Total cost to the
purchaser is £1,620,000
£1,440,000 cash and £lBO,OOO in
shares (face-value). To the
vendor the offer amounts to
£2,115,000 —Coles ords. were
priced at 18s. 9d. each in the
market —or 58s. 9d. per 10s.
ord., which fetched 15s. 6d. on
’Change early in 1955. No offer
has been made for Manton’s
pref. shares.
Present intention is to operate
Manton’s as a subsidiary. Chief
asset acquired is freehold prem-
ises in the heart of the shopping
area with an overall frontage to
Bourke-street of 117 ft. and a
depth of 313 ft. through to Little
Bourke-street, where the frontage
is 137 ft. At July 31, 1954, the
properties stood in Manton’s
books at £857,027, subject to a
mortgage of £382,260. Plant
figured at £90,988, stocks at
£471,199 and book-debts at
£33,184. There was £151,411
coming to the bank and £78,887
to sundry creditors.
To help finance the deal, etc.,
Coles intends to offer those on
its own register (date yet to be
announced) 4,000,000 new ss.
ords. at par, one for five. It is
also proposed to sell a property
in Bourke-street bought a year
or so ago for approximately
£600,000.
Wapet’s No. 1A Well
Recent efforts to test the oil-
sands met with in Wapet’s
Rough Range No. 1 well at the
3600 ft. horizon in December,
1953, were unsuccessful, because
of the mechanical condition of
the hole, which had been sunk
to a total depth of 14,607 ft.
without any further traces of
oil. So, to obtain a fresh face
on the sands, another well, No.
la* was put down 30ft. away.
Last week clean oil was
recovered from No. 1a in a
first-formation test, between
3603 ft. and 3610 ft., at the rate
of approximately 60 barrels an
hour for four hours, when the
test stopped to enable the hole
to be cored ahead to establish
actual thickness of the sands. It
may be a week or more before
the characteristics of these sands
and a settled flow-rate are estab-
lished. The extent of the sands,
or existence of a commercial
oil-field, has yet to be proved by
further exploratory work.
To date Wapet has drilled 15
holes in Westralia —10 have
been dry, two (Rough Range No.
1 and No. 1a) have yielded oil,
and three are still being sunk.
Ampol Exploration’s chairman,
L. J. Thompson, is “optimistic
about prospects of oil at Cape
Range.” Structures south of Ex-
mouth Gulf and in the Kimber-
leys are also being tested, and
other areas are under examina-
tion.
Following last week’s
announcement the market
lengthened its bid for Ampol
Exploration’s f.-p. ss. shares
from 18s. 9d. to 325.
Gippsland Oil
L. Owen writes: The question
of the geological age of the oil
produced at Lakes Entrance
(Vic.) has been controversial
since the deposit was first opened
up; but no experienced oil-geo-
logist would consider the glau-
conitic sandstone in which the oil
occurs as a possible source-bed.
Obviously, the sand was laid
down under aerobic conditions;
that is, in the presence of oxygen.
The age of the Gippsland pet-
roleum, therefore, must be pre-
Oligocene at youngest; the gen-
eral fresh-water conditions, pre-
vailing in what is now Victoria
during Eocene times, make the
extensive generation of oil with-
in that system in south-east Aus-
tralia highly improbable, in
spite of the occurrence of minor
marine phases. We are thus
driven back at least to the Cre-
taceous, or more probably, in
view of the Victorian Cretaceous
environment, to the Jurassic,
with the likelihood that the oil
is even older.
That the Lakes Entrance
material is a seepage oil is
strongly suggested (and almost
confirmed) by its composition,
It contains no fraction boiling
below 280°C. (536°F.), which
is equivalent to stating that none
G f the paraffins composing it
contains less than twelve atoms
C arbon, and the obvious as-
sumption is that all the lighter
f ract j ons wer e lost by exposure
(he atmosphere at the s ' rface
Cretaceous peneplain over
> £** of may£ unions of
_ '.
Owing to many well-known
complicating factors, it is un-
likely that measurements of the
radloactlvlty of the 0,1 wIU P ro '
vide any worth-while clue to even
approximate age of the
Gippsland petroleum More-
over" the chances are that seep-
aSe over millions of years will
dave draiact , any underground
P°° ls which may have existed,
That, of course, is a risk which
searchers after oil have to
run > i n an Y case > the hopes
°f striking shallow petroleum in
Victoria are negligible.


Women’s Letter
SYDNEY
The week included a trip to Canberra
for the wedding of Heather Menzies,
daughter of Prime Minister Menzies and
Dame Pattie Menzies, to Peter Henderson
—a very special occasion, as this is the
first time that the daughter of a Prime
Minister of Australia has been married
during her father’s term of office.
The wedding had a strong Scottish
flavor, as both bride and ’groom (he’s
the eldest son of the E. G. S. Hendersons,
of Trentham, Goulbum) are of Scottish
descent and the marriage took place at
St. Andrew’s, Canberra, which is the
national Presbyterian Church of Aus-
tralia. Two pipers in the Menzies tartan
met the bride at the church-gate and
piped her to the door, while the memorial-
statue of poet Bobbie Burns at the foot of
the hill appeared to regard the scene with
approval.
Canberra, at present a symphony of
golden, green and russet leaves against
bare, silvery branches, produced a day
of overcast skies, but mellow and still,
and with just a faint suggestion of rain,
so that one of the guests remarked “1
notice they ordered a spot of Scottish
weather, too.”
The bride had been rather tearful at
leaving her old home, but she turned to
the crowds in the church grounds with a
very happy smile to show them her lovely
gown of white satin-brocade, long-sleeved,
high-necked, its skirt full.at the back and
cut into a train. On her shoulder glittered
a diamond-brooch “borrowed” from her
mother, and her simple tulle veil, held by
a small tiara, had a misty layer of pale-
blue. Her bouquet was composed of
sprays of small white orchids and azaleas.
The full-length, white faille dresses of
the bridesmaids (Joan Wardrop, Ruth
Farren Price, Marion McPherson and
Robin Campbell) set-off the subtle colors
of their bouquets, green slipper-orchids
and autumn-tinted leaves. Their little,
crownless hats were also white faille and
had a crystal embroidered leaf at one
side. All tall girls, they made, with the
slender, graceful bride, a striking proces-
sion as they passed with the Prime Minis-
ter through the War Memorial Chapel
and down the central aisle of the church,
while the choir sang the bride’s favorite
hymn, “Praise My Soul, the King of
Heaven.”
The pews were decorated with red and
white carnations (the Menzies colors)
tied with organza ribbons, and Mrs. Guy
Smith, of Melbourne, had arranged great
bowls of cream chrysanthemums, golden
foliage and silvered ivy, set against banks
of red begonias and coleus on both sides
of the altar-table.
University House, where the reception
for 400 guests was held, is a beautiful
building in which the rooms open to a
quadrangle where a promenade runs
beside a stream and a green lawn. The
bridal-table was set in what is normally
the Common Room, and the bridal-party
shook hands with all the guests in the
adjacent room, against a background of
cypress-pine and autumn foliage. Dame
Pattie looked charming in a haze-blue
velvet coat over a chiffon dress of exactly
the same color, her little hat of soft
orchid-pink blending beautifully. She
pinned a spray of gardenias to her hand-
bag, and the bridegroom’s mother, Mrs.
E. G. S. Henderson, whose dress and hat
were forest-green trimmed with brown
fur, carried a spray of purple orchids.
The bridal-table, set by Lady Lloyd-
Jones with all the damask, antique silver
and crystal which had been used at the
banquet for the Queen in Sydney,
featured green orchids—they were in
crystal lustres, and in three William IV
silver salt-cellars where they were mingled
with snowdrops. Massed white carna-
tions stood in crystal candlesticks, and
bunched Scotch heather decorated the
front of the table between large bows of
white satin-striped organza. On each
side of huge silver letters “H and P” on
the wall behind were bowls of white
gladioli, arum-lilies and strelitzia.
The speeches were brief: Mr. Menzies
himself proposed the toast to the
Queen. Sir Owen Dixon, the
Chief Justice (referred to by Mr.
Menzies as “My brother-in-law”), pro-
posed the toast of the bride and ’groom,
and the best man, Mr. David Bums, that
of the bridesmaids. The bride and
’groom, with the bridesmaids, best man
and groomsmen (Geoffrey Henderson,
Patrick Forbes and Graham Feakes), were
the only people seated at the bridal-
table. The Governor-General, Sir
William Slim, and Lady Slim, after being
received formally, mingled with the
guests.
The bride’s going-away costume was
green polished cotton under a beige coat,
and she and her husband left for their
honeymoon by car. They will return to
Canberra in a fortnight’s time before
leaving for Djakarta, where Mr. Hender-
son is the Third Secretary at the Legation.
Beveice Walters, the daughter of
Mrs. Eric Allmon of Mosman, has just
become engaged to Dr. Peter Bryant.
whom she met while on a recent visit to
Canada. Dr. Bryant, an Englishman
whose people are living in Lancashire,
will return to Sydney in November, when
the marriage will take place. Photo by
Hugh Spencer.
A youthful president, Miss Therese
Stormon, looking very attractive in a
ballerina of turquoise nylon-net frilled
from waist to hemline, received the 500
guests at the Monte Sant’ Angelo
ex-students’ ball, held at the Empress
Ballroom during the week. She was
escorted by John Playoust, and was
assisted in the entertaining by secretary
Mary Leonard, who wore mignonette-
green moire-taffeta and was partnered by
Geoff Hewlett. The 13 debutantes, who
were presented to Major-General John
Chapman and Mrs. Chapman by Mrs.
John Dowd, had earlier in the evening
paid a call to their old school, where they
had danced their debutantes’ waltz for
the Sisters who had been their teachers.
Among those who entertained large
parties were Dr. and Mrs. A. Redler
(whose daughter Zoe made her debut),
Dr. and Mrs. Michael Fitzpatrick, and
Mrs. Phyllis Burke, founder and first
president of the Old Girls’ Union.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the sixth annual meeting of the
Braille Writers’ Association of N.S.W.,
the president, Mrs. H. G. Ringland, told
members that for the first time in Aus-
tralian history a book was to be available
to the blind at the same time as its printed
edition. The book is Shiralee, by Aus-
tralian D’Arcy Niland, which is to be
published in September. It is being tran-
scribed by Mrs. E. Vance, who con-
fidently hopes to have it finished within
the next three months. At the meeting
Dr. Colin Roderick spoke to members
on contemporary Australian writers,
touching on the personalities, lives and
works of Miles Franklin, Eleanor Dark,
E. V. Timms, Dale Collins and lon
Idriess. Mr. R. W. Kippax said Aus-
tralian writers were very popular with
braille-readers, the taste of whom, he
added, ran along parallel lines with that
of sighted people.
☆ ir ☆
The reception for members of the
Pascal String Quartet (M. Jacques
Dumont, M. Maurice Crut, M. Walter
Gerhardt and M. Robert Salles), arranged
by the Musica Viva Society, was attended
by many of Sydney’s best-known music-
lovers, all very happy at the great success
of the quartet’s concerts in the Town
Hall and at the striking evidence of the
popularity of good chamber-music in
Sydney.
Mr. and Mrs. K. W. Tribe received
guests at the Rural Bank’s conference-
room with Mrs. B. Macfarlan (Mr. Mac-
farlan was away on legal business in
Darwin). Present were Dr. and Mrs. R.
L. Ernst, Richard Goidner (founder of
Musica Viva) and Mrs. Goidner, Mr. and
Mrs. W. Hope Gibson, Miss Hephzibah
Menuhin and her husband, Mr. Richard
Hauser, Professor Peart, Mr. Peter Platt
(minus his moustache, by the way), Mr.
and Mrs. Ernest Llewellyn and Dr. Keith
Barry.
MELBOURNE
The duties of Mrs. Henry Bolte as
wife of Victoria’s new Premier will
simply mean some more activity in an
already crowded life. She is a member
of the Girl Guides State executive, and
is District Commissioner for Meredith,
where she and her husband run a grazing
property. Mrs. Bolte is also president of
the Meredith branch of Red Cross.
While Parliament is sitting Mr. and Mrs.
Bolte live in their Queens-road flat, but
manage to spend portion of the week-
end at Meredith. Mrs. Bolte, who has
a great capacity for making friends, has
commonsense, tact and charm.
* ☆ ☆
First to be entertained in the Lady
Mayoress’s newly-decorated reception-
rooms at the Town Hall were dis-
tinguished British visitors Sir Ralph and
Lady Richardson and Sir Lewis Casson
arid Dame Sybil Thorndike. They were
received by Lord Mayor Selleck and Mrs.
Selleck, she wearing a silver-grey
ensemble and silver-blue mink stole. The
walls of the reception-rooms have been
tinted in pastel oyster-green, the carpets
are soft mushroom-pink, colors which
blend perfectly with the brocade curtains
in muted pinks, grey, green and amethyst,
and these colors are repeated in the chair-
coverings.
Lady Richardson’s lovely coat of black
Persian-lamb had cuffs and facings in
blue mink; her hat was of black velvet.
Dame Sybil’s loose, full coat was of off-
white wool, her small pillbox hat was of
black velvet.
Among wives of councillors were Lady
Allison, Mrs. Bernard Evans, Mrs. R.
Solly, Mrs. A. Finlay, Mrs. F. Hardy and
Mrs. M. Nathan. Also present were
Lieut.-General Sir Sydney Rowell and
Lady Rowell, Rear-Admiral and Mrs.
R. R.. Dowling, U.S. Consul-General
Gerald Warner, Mrs. Garnet Carroll and
her son John, Bruce Selleck and his
fiancee, Denise Feench, Mr. and Mrs.
George Griffith, Mr. and Mrs. L. R.
Dooling, Mrs. Norman Robinson and
Mrs. Wesley Ince.
When Lillian, third daughter of Mrs.
A. Jacobs, of Bombay, and the late Mr.
Jacobs, was married at St. Kilda Syna-
gogue she wore a lovely classical gown
of ivory Duchesse-satin. The bodice had
a heart-shaped neckline and long sleeves;
the centre-front panel of the skirt was
beaded in pearls and rhinestones, and
from the back of the waist fell a long
train. The tulle veil, which had an em-
broidered border, was fingertip-length
and fell from a tiny cap of ivory satin.
The bouquet was of gardenias and hya-
cinths. Photo by David Fell.
The two bridesmaids wore contrasting
frocks. Eva Voss, of pink poult, was
short and featured the H-line, which was
defined with a band of pink velvet to
match the velvet outlining the neckline
of the bodice; she wore pink hyacinths in
her hair and carried a Victorian posy
of similar flowers. Helen Berger’s frock
was of white organdie, the bodice featur-
ing puff-sleeves, the skirt short and full.
She wore a wreath of white hyacinths on
her hair, her posy also of white hyacinths.
The bridegroom, Richard, the only son of
Mr. and Mrs. Leon Frank, of Caulfield,
had as best man Edward Ekselmann ;
Marek Berger was groomsman. The 120
guests at the reception were received by
Mrs. Frank ( wedring a short, slim frock
of orchid-pink crepe embroidered with
pearls and rhinestones ) and Mrs. Berger
(who chose a short bouffant frock of
black-patterned green brocade).
☆ ☆ ☆
In the William Napier collection of
furs, stoles are less cape-like, being made
just “off-straight,” but with enough shape
built into the shoulders to make them
easy to wear. This creates a portrait-
neckline, and the same idea is carried out
in the fichu style. Little cravats to be
worn with suits are made from the flat
furs, while in the more conventional
necklets sable and baum-marten have
staged a comeback to supplement mink
and kolinsky, which have been the usual
skins for necklets.
Jackets have returned to favor, ranging
from little waist-hugging boleros, cut
with deep armholes, to finger-tip length,
either in the H-line or with a slight flare
at the sides, the centre-back being quite
straight. Soft shoulder-lines with no
padding are universal, as are narrower
sleeves, at times tapering from a waist-
deep magyar armhole to a narrowed
cuff, finished with a small turn-back cuff
or made to push up the forearm. Collars
range from wide shawl-types to the
narrowest of roll-collars or the casual
stole-collar extending right down to the
hem. Large muffs, with a pocket and
slide-fastener, are being made in every
type of fur.
Fur-trimming on suits and coats, and
detachable collars, from large ones in fox
(some in Arctic-fox dyed navy-blue) to
tiny Peter Pans, and cuffs for jumpers,
complete the universal use of fur this
season. Modern fur-garments are now
made light in weight and soft, so that
the fur drapes like cloth. Mink still
retains its popularity (if you can afford
it), mainly because a woman may choose
almost any color. There is every shade
of brown, from champagne to almost
black, and there are white, sapphire-blue,
silver-blue and gunmetal. The newest
now being farmed is lilac.
Ermine, dyed rich-cocoa or chocolate-
brown, has the softness and lightness of
silk and is greatly in demand. New
colors in musquash and marmot are
mushroom, sapphire, silver-blue,
martinique, brunette and ranch-mink.
The Australian processing of Persian-
lamb is equal to the world’s best, with
a wonderfully lustrous black and fine
velvety leather back. China mink, in
the less-expensive furs, will be well to
the fore this winter. It is lightweight,
wears well and is between ermine and
kolinsky in appearance. Phantom-
beaver, which is the natural Canadian
beaver specially treated in London, is
used extensively for trimming suits and
coats or in jackets. Rabbit has not been
overlooked, and is being dyed in every
color of the rainbow.
* ☆ ☆
Noted at the packed opening of
“II Trovatore” at Her Majesty’s: The
Lady Mayoress’s short bouffant frock of
aqua-blue brocade; Mrs. Frank Tait’s
gown of sage-green velvet with a large
gold rose in the bodice ; the grey and
pink satin brocades of Mrs. Withers
(mother of Googie); Mrs. Alan Scott’s
short bouffant frock of white Chantilly
lace ; Madame Mario Vigano’s alliance
of black lace and tulle, and the A-line
frock of black velvet worn by her
daughter, Mrs. Don O’Donnell; Dr.
Gladys Hallows’s frock and full-length
coat of wine-toned satin, which had
facings of gold satin on the coat; Mrs.
Ken Irvine’s short, full frock of beetle-
wing-green taffeta ; Margaret Gunner-
son’s pink cottons patterned in a black
design; Barbara Sloman’s deep-blue
velvets; Mrs. Eric Fowler’s jet-trimmed
black ensemble.
☆ ☆ ☆
The graduates’ dining-room at the
University was the setting for a pleasant
cocktail-party given by the Robin Hood
Committee for associate-members and
friends. Guests-of-honor were Mr. F.
Byrne, • president of the Helping Hand
Association (which works for mentally-
retarded children), and Mrs. Byme.
Guests were received by Robin Hood
president Mrs. James Alston, who teamed
an apple-green quilted skirt with a black
jewel-encrusted sweater. Members of the
committee present included Mrs. John
Bell (in red faille coat and black frock),
her sister, Peggy Telleck (her choice a
black ensemble), Mrs. John Morgan,
hon. secretary Moya Horowitz, Ann
Swallow, Maria Manning and Mrs.
Adrian Nelken. Among the guests were
Mr. and Mrs. F. Bartholomew, Dulcie
Exell, Dr. and Mrs. Paul Rowan, Valerie
Bodycomb and Flight-Lieut. A. See.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
AUSTRALIA— In Divorce.
TO RONALD LOVELAND BUTLER
(otherwise known as RONALD MARK
BUTLER) late of Main Road Camp Darra
near Oxley in the State of Queensland. —
TAKE NOTICE that MARY GERALDINE
BUTLER has issued a Writ for Divorce
No. 1394 of 1954 on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years If you desire
to be heard you must file an appearance
at the Master’s Office Supreme Court
Adelaide South Australia within Thirty
days of this advertisement otherwise
orders for divorce costs custody of
children and maintenance may be made
against you in your absence.—PICKER-
ING, CORNISH & LEMPRIERE
ABBOTT, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Missing Friend
WILL A. A. (BRIAN) ROBERTSON, last
heard Sydney, January, 1954, or anybody
knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with No. 456 The Bulletin?
Small is big —
sometimes!
FT?***:
: S'*;;
mmm
sj>- JO lonaob*
3S3MTV
SM3n uSIO
aN »iio3s.ni.r.
„id»3i« o«» aniiisn
grttWM MSIO3SXOOI
\l
SXI3O
Wm
)p
A>y
m
A paradox? Perhaps! But
there are times when a tape-
measure is not the truest
judge of stature. Take
Scotch Whiskies for ex-
ample. Bell’s is one of the
oldest of the independent
firms of Scotch Whisky dis-
tillers. Their output is by .no
means the biggest, but the
whisky they make is ‘big’ in
the best sense. Carrying in
the heart of it the heart of
the Highlands. Those who
take whisky seriously, take
Bell’s with delight.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BEILS
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur BeUdk Sons Ltd. , Distillers ,
Perth, Scotland.
Established 1825
YOUR de-luxe
Winter Holiday
with
realistic economy!
LIVE IN AUSTRALIA'S FRIENDLIEST HOTEL
PERSONAL ATTENTION IS OUR HALLMARK!
Swim, play tennis, dance every night, ski
(1 hrs. run) —Live in luxury—walk in glorious
surroundings. Hobart boasts 5.8 hrs. sunshine
daily—annual rainfall oelow Sydney or
Melbourne. Room and Breakfast from 40/-.
Inclusive terms from 57/6 daily—May to Sept.
Special rates for conferences up to 150.
Write for Free Booklet.
WREST POINT
RIVIERA HOTEL
HOBART, TASMANIA.
IOPi
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“The Taming of the Shrew”
On Empire Night, and for the
second time in three years, a
member of The Bulletin who
prefers to remain anonymous
succeeded in igniting the whole
box of fireworks before the even-
ing really started, much to the
consternation and disappoint-
ment of his family. The explo-
sion, of course, was noisy and
spectacular, but so confused that
no one really saw what it was
all about.
On Empire Night, too,
Katharine Hepburn, as the
Shrew, did much the same thing
at Sydney Tiv. One would not
have minded so much had she
gone-off like a hunger, a rocket,
a jumping-jack, or even a
Catherine-wheel; instead she
went-off like the whole boxful,
slapping the comedy all over the
place and using her voice like a
hurdy-gurdy, so that in the con-
fusion one hardly knew whether
she was portraying a shrew, a
virago or a mild form of lunacy.
And the moments in which
she trotted around the stage
jumping over furniture while
Robert Helpmann Petruchio
cracked his whip were pure
Hollywood frills —rather like the
breathless last-minute dispatches
in the trial-scene in the earlier
production of “The Merchant.”
Miss Hepburn quietened-down
considerably as the evening pro-
gressed, and eventually came
very prettily to heel, although,
after the confusion of her open-
ing scenes, it was rather difficult
to know what it was that had
been tamed.
Robert Helpmann’s Petruchio
was better—mannered and brisk
about the stage, with an effective
snapping humor. Helpmann has
bags and bags of style, although
it seems occasionally that there
is not much more than that
behind it all. Uninspired is
hardly the word, but character
should seem to run a little deeper
than the costume that clothes it.
That, in fact, seems to be a
weakness common to most of
the present company. Polished
and handsomely mounted
though its two productions so
far have been, there has been
a curious lack of real vitality
about them. There should, after
all, be a kind of Elizabethan
substance about the plays of
W.S. —one should see the grain
of oak as well as the polish—
yet most of the players have
performed more like obedient
marionettes in Restoration
comedy than with any particular
individual vitality.
That is only going by two
shows, of course, and there are
exceptions. Miss Hepburn is
one, if a disappointing one, and
Helpmann has enough style and
polish to make him a welcome
one. George Benson, too —his
Gobbo in “The Merchant” and
his Grumio in this were both
excellent and filled with Shak-
spearian substance and,
although she has only appeared
briefly in this season, one has
not forgotten Joan MacArthur’s
Amelia in Anthony Quayle s
“Othello.”
Robin Bailey (Tramo) also
pushes a kind of music-hall
vitality across the footlights very
effectively, but the rest of the
players, on evidence so far pre-
sented, are not really what one
would expect out of the Old Vic r
box. In fact, one wonders what
producer Michael Benthall
might do with a locally recruited
cast in the same settings.
Less polish, possibly, but prob-
ably a good deal more substance
and vitality.
♦l* ❖ ❖
Infantsno
Embodiment of the Italian
bel canto school, this 33-year-
old Sicilian tenor, who has been
stacking ’em in at the Town Hall
during his Sydney season, is
about as well-equipped in both
the vocal and personality de-
partments as any operatic singer
could be.
His voice is unvarying in
splendid quality over a range
that allows him to get impres-
sive notes well down in the
chest-register ; and when he pulls
out all the stops as he soars into
the alpine regions'it rings and
reverberates in true robust style,
a thing of thrilling beauty. He
achieves this accession to height
and power seemingly as easily as
turning on a tap.
In Neapolitan folk-songs In-
fantino brought into play a vital
personality shored-up by a gift
for humorous expression. Also,
these songs allowed him to
demonstrate his ability to sing
with great clarity at around 200
w.p.m.
♦>
Pascal Quartet
The four French players who
comprise this chamber-music
ensemble left no doubt about
their quality in the first concert
of their Australian tour for the
Musica Viva Society at Sydney
Town Hall. They began with
Mozart’s “Hunt” Quartet, K. 458,
which has all the refinements and
polished embellishments of the
composer at his mature best. It
was invested with warmth of
tone, a beautiful balance held
between all the instruments,
sensitiveness, and precision
achieved in that relaxed style
which only complete understand-
ing between instrumentalists can
effect.
❖ ♦!♦ ♦>
Anna Russell
Half of Melbourne has been
rendered sick with laughter by
Anna Russell, who has been
buffooning great music, great
ideas and great men at the Town
Hall.
Miss Russell springs one sur-
prise on her audience a minute.
One of the biggest surprises is
when she strikes a difficult note
just on the right spot, as she does
in the Victory yell of the
Valkyries.
♦!« ❖
“Faust”
Even more emasculated than
usual, Gounod’s opus duly made
its appearance in the operatic
procession at Melbourne’s Her
Majesty’s.
Melbourne is never given an
opportunity of seeing the legend-
ary revels of Walpurgis Night on
the Brocken, with Cleopatra,
Helen of Troy and Phryne flit-
ting about the Hartz mountains
—which Gounod wrote into
his opera to gratify the demand
of the Grand Opera, Paris, for
a good leg-show—but it usually
has the satisfaction of seeing
Mephistopheles and his victim
descending through a trapdoor
into the infernal regions amidst
flames and smoke and with a
smell of brimstone.
In the current presentation this
spectacle, too, is denied it, and
there is a definite loss of interest
in the final act where Marguer-
ite gives her last cry, “Saved,”
in answer to Mephistopheles’
snarl, “Condemned,” while Ken-
neth Neate (Faust) and Catania
(Mephistopheles) merely walk off
backstage a dreadful anti-
climax.
There may have been tech-
nical difficulties in this case.
Messrs. Neate and Catania
represent a lot of flesh to send
safely to the eternal bonfire.
There was, however, no ex-
cuse for the omission of the
spectacle of more-or-less weighty
Marguerite being borne heaven-
ward by angels. The National
Theatre has performed this feat
very nicely. In the present case
Marguerite dies while a very
diminutive angel, who should
be in bed at that hour, walks
towards her.
Perhaps it was just as well,
however. The audience, without
these spectacular titbits, could
concentrate better on the sweet
soprano and engaging acting
which Gabrielle Tucci gave the
deserted maiden, on the robust
and resonant tenor of Kenneth
Neate as her seducer, and on
the sardonic laughter of Salva-
tore Catania as the arch-fiend.
The choruses of students,
soldiers, villagers, sorcerers and
toothless old men were brilliantly
expressive.
♦> i* »>
Youth Concert
The latest crop of hopeful
devotees of music poured into
Melbourne Town Hall in their
thousands for the first of the
1955 youth-concerts.
It heard magnificent music,
magnificently executed, without
hearing conductor Walter Suss-
kind telling it what to think,
which was a blessing. Whether
this was due to the difficulties of
language for the Czech-born
conductor, or whether it was due
to his realisation that the worst
way to introduce a person to a
work of art in music is to
analyse it for him, instead of
just letting him listen to it, one
doesn’t know, but it is to be
hoped it was the latter.
The Victorian Symphony
Orchestra was in its best form
in the climax to the first move-
ment of the Sibelius Symphony
No. 2 in D Major, and the
lyrical passages in the scherzo
were particularly lovely.
Artbursts
Dunlop Competition
Awards in the sixth Dunlop
Prize were: oils, first prize, T. J.
Sant r y ’ s “Woolloomooloo,”
second, Hector Gilliland, third
Jacqueline Hicks; watercolors,
no first prize, second to Nornie
Gude’s “Fruit Bowl.”
The final selections are hang-
ing at Buckley and Nunn’s in
Melbourne, and, while some of
the pictures are old-fashioned
-and some new-fashioned, very
ifew, if any, are unfashioned —
i.e., independent of any standard
except Nature’s. The entry that
comes nearest to the last-named
is probably Rex Bramleigh’s
“Police Station, South Mel-
bourne.”
Frederic Bates strikes a note
in “P.M.G. Camp in the Pines”
in the watercolor section, but
the rest of the exhibits are not
very distinguished.
M. G. S.
*> <s>
Showing watercolors at Koz-
minsky Galleries, Melbourne,
Dr. N. Brustolin, being a flying-
doctor, had a bird’s-eye view
of most of the pictures he has
painted on terra firma, a lot of
them in Namatjira’s country.
There is the same stark color in
the stark hills, the same surpris-
ing contrasts and the same
unearthly gleam of the ghost-
gums, all treated in the same
way. “Sunset, Mount Olga”
has feeling.
Talkies
“Bad Day at Black Rock”
(Sydney St. James): One-armed
war-veteran Spencer Tracy drops
off a train at a little desert-edge
hamlet to present to the father
of his dead mate the medal
posthumously awarded him for
saving Tracy’s life. Immediately
he senses a mystery, and the surly
non-co-operation of the handful
of inhabitants soon changes to
ruthless hostility. Tracy’s fer-
reting-out of the motive for it,
and his efforts to extricate him-
self from a dangerous position,
all within 24 hours, add-up to
a good quota of excitement.
Robert Ryan is the other tough
hombre of the piece.
❖ ♦>
“The Black Widow” (Sydney
Regent): This murder-mystery,
smoothly directed by Nunnally
Johnson, who also wrote the
screenplay, is the multiple-sus-
pect sort, all the suspects being
connected with the theatre. The
victim is a young woman who
mixes literary aspirations with a
spot of blackmail. The plot is
feasible enough, false trails are
skilfully laid, the dialogue is
stylish, and the doings are
worked out satisfactorily by a
talented cast headed by Van
Heflin, George Raft, Reginald
Gardiner, Ginger Rogers and
Peggy Ann Gardner.
»> ♦*<
“Six Bridges to Cross” (Syd-
ney Victory): In this story of a
delinquent lad who gravitates
into big-time crime and finishes
on a marble slab in the morgue
Tony Curtis brings off quite a
good performance. Patches of
false sentiment punctuate the
proceedings at odd points, but
as an essay in quiet, determined
viciousness it has its merits.


♦ the
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862 •
Hear! Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J- K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
GUARD
■%>
({tyU&uusfig
*4?tblvcV'
PROTECTA
TILL
Suitable for eeery type of basinet* it records
sll Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE .. Nonaan Bros. Pty. Ltd
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
SPORTING NOTIONS
Ten runners went out for the
Port Phillip Hurdle at Caulfield ;
only four remained after the
first jump, where Franstone fell
and brought down five others,
including the National hopes
Sidlaw and Solar Bleu. Providore
and Better Law —first and second
—are in the G.N. hurdle.
Comidai, an aged gelding who
formerly raced as Yourana, had
nothing to recommend him in
the Shillabeer Steeple at Caul-
field, but was backed down
from about forties to sevens,
made the early running and won
well. He had 9.5 in the Shilla-
beer, but will get more in the
G.N. Steeple.
Dicast, who won the last Oak-
leigh Plate with a brilliant burst
of speed, turned it on again at
Caulfield, well ridden by J. Pur-
tell, who will be the colt’s pilot
in the Stradbroke. Dicast carried
9.2 at Caulfield (7.7 limit) and
has 8.7 in the Stradbroke (7st.
limit), over the same distance,
seven furlongs, so that on the
scale he drops a couple of
pounds. He is a three-year-old
by Faircourt (imp.) from Manis-
cus by Dietical, and though he
is a class sprinter several good
stayers appear in his pedigree.
Davout Hua, another Strad-
broke candidate, won the Doom-
ben Flying Handicap in Brisbane,
but there was little Stradbroke
significance in it. Cragsley,
made favorite for the Stradbroke
after good wins in Sydney, has
run into muscle-rsoreness. Fire
Dust is still in favor ten days
before the race.
Following three minor plac-
ings, Sir Gordon broke the ice
in the Second Ovens Handicap
at Caulfield. Is he named after
England’s most famous jockey,
Sir Gordon Richards? Bred at
Northwood Park, Seymour
(Vic.), Sir Gordon cost 1600gns.
as a yearling. He is a son
of Palm Vista (imp.) from
Tulaki by Tudor King (imp.)
from Bahlaka by Saltash (imp.)
from Galtee Maid by Linacre
(imp.). Galtee Maid was a
sister to speedy Gael, winner of
numerous races in Sydney
• • • •
Winner of five races in eight
starts, Dark Silk is a brilliant
two-year-old. After his win at
Caulfield with a welter weight,
9.10, there is talk of sending him
to America.
Sydney Tatt.’s was washed out
by rain and the meeting was
postponed until today (Wednes-
day).
" • • •
Phal Prince, a winner over
seven furlongs at Newcastle, is
from the family which produced
Hydrogen and Desert Gold, and
is related to Gold Rod and to
John Wilkes. Phal Prince is by
Phaleron Bay (imp.) from Lady
Upstart by Burnewang (imp.)
from Upstart by Ronsard (imp.).
Feature of the English clas-
sics was that for the first time in
their long history women owners
landed the Derby and Oaks in
the same year. Madame Suzy
Volterra races Phil Drake and
Lady Zia Wernher owns Meld,
outstanding three-year-old filly
of the English season. Though
Meld as favorite won the Oaks
by half a dozen lengths, Acrop-
olis, favorite for the Derby, was
easily beaten into third place
by Phil Drake and Pana Slip-
per. Phil Drake is a son of
Admiral Drake from Philippa
by Vatellor, while Pana Slipper
is by Solario, and Acropolis is
a son of Donatello 11. French-
bred sire Royal Empire, located
at the Sledmere Stud (N.S.W.), is
a son of Admiral Drake.
Val Ali won a minor mile-and-
a-half race at Randwick in
November, 1951, and since has
done nothing much except start
at 100 to 1 and run last. But
such is the faith of veteran
trainer Taverna that Val Ali is
still in training. Maybe Taverna
expects another record like when
Val Ali, at Randwick in October,
1951, won a Novice Handicap
at 200 to 1 and, coupled with
Johnny Zero, winner of City
Tattersall’s Cup at 16 to 1, paid
the then-record tote-doubles
dividend of £3120 10s. 6d. Last
year that figure was ecliped
when the Finisterre-African
Queen double returned
£4315 18s. 9d. for ss.
Jockey F. Hutchings says
Singapore racing-track is some-
thing like Sydney’s Canterbury
in appearance, but in better
racing condition, mainly because
there is ample cheap labor.
Hutchings, who has been away
more than 2\ years, can go
to scale at 7.9. There are
about 20 white jockeys in
Singapore and a fair number
of good local boys. Hutchings
did a lot of riding for the R. S.
Bagby stable, which shelters no
fewer than 60 horses. Flash of
Gold, a former Sydney galloper,
is doing well in Singapore, where
all betting is by the tote. Bagby
was a former crack New Zealand
jockey.
Visiting horses scooped the
pool at the Q.T.C. winter meet-
ing last year when Karendi won
the Stradbroke, Lancaster the
Brisbane Cup, Electro the St.
Leger and Gallant Archer the
Moreton Handicap, all starting
favorite.
The S.T.C. is talking about
night race-meetings. In the
winter months fog would be one
hindrance. Outdoor sporting
events in Sydney last Saturday
night were almost invisible —
and racegoers like to see a race
all the way.
Midwave, a filly in the
Juvenile Novice at Randwick
today (Wednesday), will be hav-
ing her first start. Midwave is
by the successful sire Midstream
(imp.) and is from Merry Song,
who didn’t race; she is
by Marconigram (imp.) from
Lilonga by Brazen (imp.). The
filly cost lOOOgns. as a yearling.
Her half-sisters were So Happy,
So Bright and Chanteuse ; she
is related to Balmerino, a
winner of the Caulfield Guineas.
Pelias, who opened his win-
ning account in a Canterbury
(Sydney) Maiden, is a New
Zealand - bred three - year - old
gelding by Neptune (imp.) from
the Spiral mare Trellis, whose
dam, Veil, threw several winners.
Veil was by Absurd (imp.) from
Cowl and was a sister to
Rational, winner of £lO,OOO in
stakes, and to The Monk, winner
of close on £lO,OOO, including
the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes.
Trellis is a three-quarter sister
to Veilmond (17 wins and
£21,616), sire of several winners,
among them Velocity (Caulfield
Cup) and Rimveil (A.J.C. Epsom
Handicap). Peshawar (Caulfield
Cup) also appears in the family
lines. Pelias was a compara-
tively cheap yearling at 375gns.
The ladies, hitherto devoted
to auction-bridge and rummy,
took up a new and chatty card
game called canasta, and it be-
came the rage from Perkins
Corner (Iowa) to Chipping Sod-
bury (Glos.) and Pallamallawa
(N.S.W.). You start scoring in
canasta when you “meld,” so
it’s likely the dears plonked their
pin-money on the English Oaks
winner, Meld.
The Hawkesbury winner
Aluinn, as his name implies, is
a product of Aluinn stud, Rox-
borough (N.S.W.). He cost
600gns. as a yearling and is by
Genetout (imp.) from Loquac-
ity by Talking from Tenisado by
Silverado (imp.). Family lines
include Sir Ross, a winner of
the A.J.C. Summer Cup and
City Tattersall’s Cup.
“P.0.M.C.”: Of 465 Sydney
metropolitan horse-races run up
to May 30, jockeys Ward, Cook,
Sellwood and Camer won 177
between them. But a . punter
following this quartet exclusively
(and they get the pick of the
“Cripes, you'll get your death o’ cold in there, mate .”
rides) by religiously investing £1
on each of their mounts would
be down £65 9s. 9d. to date ;
despite the fact that both Ward
and Cook would show him a
credit. Yet bookmakers never
fail to see bankruptcy staring
them in the face when once in
a blue moon (as at Canterbury
recently) three or four favorites
win in a row.
New South Wales hoop W.
Bell, under contract to Singapore
tycoon Mr. Runme Shaw, fol-
lowed early success in the tropics
with two falls in the one day,
and had to return to Sydney.
Up again, off again, he flies back
this weekend to do the last few
months of the contract. With
an easier “spin” this time he’ll
probably stay longer and
share the wealth.
* * *
A few weeks back eight-year-
old Potlaze won the fast-class
Country Clubs Handicap at
Gloucester Park (W.A.), rating
2.10 i. By Jack Potts out of
Ablaze, the Pedro Pronto mare,
he is a full brother to Confla-
grate, now standing in N.S.W.
Conflagrate’s three-year-old son
Malniri, out of the S.A. mare
Galimine, followed a win against
good company at Sydney’s
Harold Park with a smart
victory at Bulli (N.S.W.). He
looks a solid type of colt.
An impressive winner at Bulli
was Nimble Star. Rumors that
this Van Ayr-Miss Starwyn four-
year-old has been “tossing”
stablemate and recent Harold
Park winner Babe Grattan in
track-trials were made credible
by the run. He put the distance
behind in the fast time of 2.51
for the 10 furlongs—the time
made by Malniri and bettered
only on the night by Finley’s
Air.
+ -f
Melbourne, unbeaten in the
V.F.L., were quite put out on
Saturday when Souths, full of
beans and simply refusing to be
overawed, galloped enthusiasti-
cally to the front and stayed
there for three quarters. Only
by shedding their aloofness and
getting stuck into it did Mel-
bourne manage to pull it out —
by one point, 11.6-10.11. Fitz-
roy, coy and brash after its
defeat of Footscray last round,
was set back a peg or two by
Collingwood. Playing fiery foot-
ball throughout, ’Wood kicked
the century for the fifth time in
its five wins, 16.13-6.9. Hawthorn
somewhat atoned for two suc-
cessive defeats by narrowly beat-
ing Essendon, 10.10-9.11, ’Scray
accounted for North after an
even battle, 10.9-8.14, and Gee-
long, invaded by Carlton, had
no particular trouble in beating
back the Blues, 12.12-10.9. Rich-
mond Tigers at last were able to
pad off with a smile on their
face, having disposed of hapless
St. Kilda somewhat in the
manner of the lady of Riga,
17.20-7.14.
* * •
The French Rugby League
tourists were beaten by Sydney,
25-nil. A couple of weeks of
running into condition should
make a great difference to the
visitors, who were quite gentle-
manly during the affair.
• * • •'
In Sydney Rugby Union,
Eastern Suburbs beat University
6-3 —University’s first defeat this
season. Gordon beat Eastwood,
11-6, and took University’s place
at the top of the competition.
In other games, St. George beat
Northern Suburbs, 11-6; Rand-
wick beat Drummoyne, 26-3;
and Manly beat Parramatta,
22-6.
• * •
South African Locke’s Open
on the Brisbane Gailes course
was a tribute to placidity. The
big fellow had no gripes about
the course or the cyclone which
swept over it, turned in a 290 —
69 in the last round after slip-
ping with a 76 in the third —
calmly thanked an eagle two on
the 262 yd. fourth for the win
and said, “I’ll be back to defend
it next year.” He was a stroke
ahead of Von Nida and Nagle.
* * ♦
“C.A.A.”: Retiring after a
decade with Geelong V.F.L.
team Fred Flanagan becomes a
publican. He played 163 games
with Geelong, won the club’s
“best and fairest” award in
1949, was thrice captain (includ-
ing the premiership years of
1951 and 1952), captained the
Victorian inter-State side in
1952, and played in 23 inter-
state games.
4 e •
“Goalsneak”: A couple of
Saturdays ago, Grogan East
(Northern Vic.) kicked 63.23
(401) against Liang, 1.2 (8).
Grogan’s full-forward, 16-year-
old Clarrie Mitnite, kicked 41
goals. Two records? .
Sturt, well charged with new
blood and stiffened by a brace
of ex-Victorian veterans, are the
force in S.A.F.L. this year and
made it five wins in a row
when they toppled Pt. Adelaide
for the first time in seven years,
12.9 to 7.11.
• * »
“Amie”: Miller and Archer
set a new sixth-wicket record
of 206 for Australia-West Indies
Tests. Previous best was 114
by G. C. Grant and E. L. Bart-
lett in Adelaide in 1930-31. In
the same match Atkinson and
De Peiza (W. 1.) made 348 for
the seventh wicket, beating the
world record of Ranjitsinghi and
Newham (for Sussex against
Essex in 1902) by four runs.
* * •
When challenger Alan- Wil-
liams (13.4 D and champion
Ken Brady (14.10) fought for
the Australian heavyweight
championship at Leichhardt
(Sydney) Brady was unlucky to
lose. According to Queensberry
rules the aggressor is given
preference in a points-score, and
Brady forced the fight all the
way, while Williams retreated. A
clash of heads gashed Brady’s left
eyebrow early on, and blood
from this must have affected his
firing sight. But he kept on
shooting solid rights to Williams’s
head. Williams was cautioned
for hitting when ordered to
break clean from a clinch in the
fifth and Brady got going with a
rattle of rights to the head.
From then on Williams kept
running around the ring. How
Williams got the points decision
is a bit of a mystery.
m * §
“C.T.”: Tommy Burns’s death
brought memories to Jack Gal-
braith, of Newcastle (N.S.W.),
who was Burns’s sparring-partner
in the training before the famous
fight with Johnson in 1908. Hale
and hearty at 78, Jack is
still doing a full-time job on the
Coalopolis waterfront.
* * •
“Moorapi”: At the second
annual junior abo. sports meet-
ing at Alice Springs a full athletic
programme was presented, and
300 dusky kids from a dozen
tribes within a 400-mile radius of
The Alice took part. Several mis-
sion stations, including Her-
mannsberg, were represented.
Purpose of the gathering, to
eliminate tribal antagonisms.
Ah, dreams.
* * *
“J.L,”: Queensland athletes
John Loveday and Tony Booth
will shortly begin rather unusual
training. For the first few
months it will include walking
and running through deep water
and sand for at least 12 miles
three times a week, and then
shovelling sand or chopping
trees. To top this off, they will
do gym. work at least one night
a week. The vigorous schedule
has been designed by former
Finnish coach Rhu Buss, now
living in Brisbane. Loveday
(hurdler) and Booth (sprinter)
have often been called “training
fanatics,” but their physical
fitness is an object-lesson.


HASTINGS DIESELS LTD.
HASTINGS
With wholly owned subsidiaries—
PEERING (QUEENSLAND) PTY. LTD.
HASTINGS PEERING (NEW GUINEA) PTY. LTD.
HASTINGS PEERING (N.T.) PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE. INNISFAIL, DALBY. MACKAY. INGHAM. ATHERTON. MT. ISA, ALICE SPRINGS, DARWIN. PORT MORESBY. LAE.
DAM
CONSTRUCTION
Northern Territory
Caterpillar Diesel Equipment used
in excavating.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £2,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL
628,455 Ordinary Shares of £1 each J
577,045 New Ordinary Shares of £1 each(
£1205,500
NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION
300,000 New Ordinary Shares of £1 each
1,505,500
HELD IN RESERVE
494,500 Shares of £1 each
300,000
£1,505,500
494,500
2,000,000
£2,000,000
FLOOD CONTROL
Queensland
Caterpillar Tractor with Bulldozer building
levee.
These are “The Tools” with which Australia develops its
National Resources and strengthens its Delences
AERODROME CONSTRUCTION
Darwin
sm
&
SLSt
obm
sOWM?»
m
mi
Two Caterpillar Diesel Tractors clearing brush land with
300-foot chain.
URANIUM MINING
Rum Jungle, Darwin
%
r
'Lima Shovel with 2-yard dipper loading rock strippings.
The principal franchises are:
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO., of Peoria, U.S.A.,
owning CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
"Caterpillar" Tractors.
"Caterpillar" & Steel weld Earth-moving Equipment
for: STATE OF QUEENSLAND
NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA
NEW GUINEA AND PAPUA
SOUTH-WEST PACIFIC ISLANDS
DEERE AND COMPANY, of Illinois, U.S.A. John
Deere Agricultural Machinery for the same
territory.
BALDWIN-LIMA-HAMILTON CORPORATION, of
Lima, Ohio, U.S.A. Lima Cranes, Shovels and
Draglines for the whole of Australia.
CLOSING ON OR BEFORE 30th JUNE, 1955
Net Profit Ord. Dividend*
Year ended 31st August, 1951 ... £11,790 9.2%
Year ended 31st August, 1952 .. £48,779 39.0%
Year ended 31st August, 1953 .. £58,870 12.5%
Year ended 31st August, 1954 .. £111,398 12.5%
(FIGURES FROM AUDITORS' REPORT)
This record 6f well-advised management and sound
operation of valuable franchises augurs well for the
future development and profits of die Company.
Intending shareholders have this opportunity to partici-
pate in returns and dividends from the expanded future
operations of Hastings Diesels Ltd. with the increased
working capital.
I
GOLD MINING
New
Guinea
Caterpillar Tractor with
Bulldozer engaged in
earth-moving.
COAL MINING Queensland
aesr
Lima Shovel at work o« an open-cut.
ROAD B U
Northern)
Territory
ILD I N 6
Caterpillar
Motor Grader
on road work.
LAND CLEARING, LOGGING
w
-
b»£
Si
»*sf
*
■ V:
New Guinea
Caterpillar Diesel Tractor hauling
five big logs at once.
SUGAR CANE, PINEAPPLES
Queensland
Caterpillar Diesel Tractor used
in cultivating.
*‘**®SSSW>
I ~*H*»* V
man ""W.svy
WHEAT
—Dalby, Queensland
( ,
VW,
SI
'(rjAdU^SfUS
* # SM.
/ /; • ••'•/;'. yy'
<? . z* ' y- '’ .''’(' '/rT\
Caterpillar Diesel Tractor operating
combine.
...... n,n*u no RCCOBE 5 PM ON 30th JUNE, 1955. THE ISSUE IS ALREADY OVERSUBSCRIBED AND THE DIRECTORS HAVE DECIDED TO
THIS ISSUE OF NEW ORDINARY SHARES WILL CL p ® S J v ®^ D °^ H | E^p[,| AT |o' N S ARE RECEIVED AT THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY BEFORE CLOSING DATE.
Thii it not °n abridged prospectus and does not comply with Section 197 of the N ,&.W* Companies &et»
AN OVERSUBSCRIPTION,
VJ
NOTE: The issue?
has been over-
subscribed and the
Directors are
accepting an over-
subscription*
HD2
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Ltd., _ _
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please forward me a copy of Prospectus described in this advertisement.
.State.
Name
Address.


T LLEY
KEROSENE
PRESSURE
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON |i PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY LTD
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement* of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAQNEY, Chairman; P. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. Q. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
'Phone: BW 8361.
Branches in all Slates.
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Will machines
take away
your job?
One machine knows which
objects on the assembly line
to paint, which to skip. An-
other bakes, slices, wraps
bread. One even builds V-8
engines largely by itself!
June Reader’s Digest shows
you the wonders of “auto-
mation”; tells why this new
technique promises more jobs,
better working conditions.
A wealth of other stimulat-
ing articles in June Reader’s
Digest plus an 18-page
book condensation of Anne
Morrow Lindbergh’s inspiring
best-seller, “Gift from the
Sea.” On sale now one
shilling and sixpence all
newsagents and bookstalls.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JUVENILE DELINQUENCY
“The nation [America] can expect an appalling
increase in the number of crimes that will be committed
by teenagers in the years ahead unless the crime-rate
among juveniles can be lowered. «
“In 1953, persons under 18 committed 53.6 per cent,
of all car-thefts; 49.3 per cent, of all burglaries; 18 per
cent, of all robberies and 16.2 per cent, of all rapes. These
are the statistics reported to the F. 8.1. by 1174 cities.
“Even the present number of juveniles, committing
crime at the present rate, in the next 33 years—approxi-
mately a generation—will commit 7.4 million automobile-
thefts, 15.8 million burglaries, two million robberies, three
million aggravated assaults and 200,000 murders.”
—Statement by J. Edgar Hoover,
Director of the F. 8.1., to “U.S. News and World Report ”
CJIMILAR crimes are being
committed by juveniles in
Australia, if not in similar
numbers; hence a series of
interviews on aspects of the
problem in the U.S. make
illuminating reading. These
interviews were given to “U.S.
News and Wdrld Report” by
people closely concerned with
the subject—judges, lawyers and
police.
The first interview was with
Judge Samuel S. Leibowitz, who
has presided for 14 years over
Brooklyn’s Kings County Court,
one of the busiest criminal
courts in the United States,,
Before he became a judge in
1940 he had achieved consider-
able fame as one of the best-
known crime-lawyers in the
country—“he defended more
than 100 persons charged with
murder and lost only one to the
electric-chair.”
Leibowitz recently sought an
investigation into the coddling
of young hoodlums by juvenile
courts and other agencies con-
cerned with handling delinquent
teenagers. Asked by “U.S.
News and World Report” why
the courts could not do a better
job of controlling juvenile
delinquency, he replied:
“The courts alone cannot
eliminate juvenile delinquency—
you must look to the parents,
the school, the church and the
neighborhood to do the real job
of prevention. However, the
courts—and I refer to the
juvenile courts must bear some
0^ 4 tbe onus,
considering the part
Pl a Y ed by the courts we should
8° back a bit - What do we mean
wh ? n we speak of juvenile
delinquency today? Years ago
it meant ‘hell-raising,’ by
youngsters. In those days, when
we . referred to a juvenile
delinquent, we had in mind a
kid wbo perhaps was sassy to his
parents, who was a chronic
hooky-player, who was dis-
respectful to his teacher, loafed
and refused to go to work and
hu ug around on the street-corner
or i° a pool-room,
“There has been a meta-
morphosis.. Nowadays it is not
mere juvenile .delinquency—now
it’s violent, sadistic crime—the
kind cr *™ e that was foreign to
tbe Pjug-ugly of years ago.
Today is the era of the juvenile
crii mnal, and I emphasise the
w ° 4 criminal,
fhey run, let us say, from
T" years and upwards to 21.
They commit horrible crimes—
mere youn S st f s now hold-
L'Sch bTde
knives, daggers ; crimes such as
rapes, home-burglaries, felonious
assault, arson, dope-peddling. 1
had a safe-cracker before me the
other day who was barely 18
years of age.
“The really alarming feature
is this rapidly increasing inci-
dence of serious criminal
conduct in the teenage groups
and particularly the younger
teenagers—that, plus the fact
that the whole thing is treated
much too casually, much too
permissively, with these
dangerous youngsters being
turned loose time after time with
hardly a slap on the wrist,
Naturally, they can have
nothing but contempt for a law
and a system which has no back-
bone —no conviction of any sort
—in it.”
Between 1948 and 1953, Judge
Leibowitz continued, the U.S.
had 84 youths, ages 16 to 21,
convicted of murder and man-
slaughter: “And that isn’t all.
The homicides committed by the
youngsters were infinitely more
wanton and vicious than those
of the older offenders. In the
cases of the youngsters, there’s
an entirely new dimension, a
callousness and a viciousness
that you encounter but rarely in
the older cases.
The Courts
“Now, for the first time, the
public is commencing to gripe
about the juvenile courts. The
charge is now made that the
courts are guilty of coddling the
young criminal and thereby
encouraging him to become
worse, rather than better. lam
afraid that this complaint is
justified; but in fairness I must
say that there is little else that
even the competent judges, and
most of them are topnotch,
dedicated, able men, can do
about it under the circumstances
that prevail here in New York
City. Conditions are probably
no different in many other large
centres.
“In' many instances, when the
youngster is brought to court he
has already had prior contact
with the police, crime-prevention
agencies and juvenile - aid
bureaux. By the time he reaches
court, he has already shown a
propensity toward crime. Tell-
tale danger-signs have been
flashing, warning those whose
responsibility it is to correct him
that he is plunging toward the
edge of the precipice. The court-
room is the place where he
experiences his first formal
contact with the daw —and this
is where he must be brought up
short and made to realise that
crime doesn’t pay: that it is as
easy as pie to get into trouble,
but it is as hard as the devil
to get out of it.
“We must realise that, in these
days, we are not dealing merely
with the mischievous kid who is
just interested in a little ‘hell-
raising.’ Today we are up
against the tough, cynical young
criminal. And what is the
atmosphere of these court-
rooms? Since the advent of
these special juvenile courts it
has been the fashion to conduct
the proceedings with an air of
the utmost informality. Even
the court-afttendants are pro-
hibited from wearing uniforms.
The judge sits behind the desk
with as little formality as a clerk
ip an office.
“In my judgment, that is just
plain foolishness. In our large
cities cases are rushed through
with the speed of an express-
train. The volume of business is
terrific; the probation-service
woefully understaffed and under-
paid ; the care and attention that
can be given to each defendant
must of necessity be inadequate.
“To the young offender this
whole process of going through
the machinery of justice is just
a huge farce. This informal
court-room atmosphere is
certainly not calculated to
impress the young criminal with
the dignity and solemnity of the
law.
“I firmly believe that that is
one of the major causes that
tend to encourage the experi-
enced young criminal in his dis-
respect for law and order, and
thus to continue his career of
crime.”
Judge Leibowitz was asked if
children’s courts should concen-
trate more on punishment rather
than on training and rehabilita-
tion.
“Now, here we go again with
these misleading labels,” he said.
“Oft-times what people may call
punishment is really training and
rehabilitation. For example,
when you give a child a few
whacks on his fanny, you’re
training him. When you give
a young criminal a bit of a taste
of jail, some may call it punish-
ment, but I choose to call it
training, with an eye towards
rehabilitation.
“Going back to the juvenile
courts, I must emphasise again
that the business of turning out
young criminals on probation
time after time is dead wrong.
We’re never going to put a stop
to the repeater with this sort of
namby-pamby treatment,
A Taste of Jail
“Let us devote another
moment to this matter of in-
formality. Let us assume that
a defendant is before me in my
court-room about to be sen-
tenced. Let us assume that I
have decided to give him his
freedom on probation—and I do
that frequently, but only after
I have had our probation-
officers make the most careful
field-investigation and have
calculated all the risks.
“I will say to him: ‘Now,
Mister Defendant, I intend to
suspend sentence on you and
put you on probation; but,
before I do so, I shall send you
down to the jail. I want you to
see what the inside of a cell
looks like. I want you to sleep
in a cell tonight. Just look
around that cell, look at that
cot —the bed-clothing—nothing
like the nice clean bed at home.
When you wake up in the morn-
ing, bars will be staring at you ;
there’ll be nobody there to serve
you your breakfast just like
mother does. Walk around and
rub shoulders with some of the
human scum in the jail—sex-
degenerates, the dope-fiends,
the punks—and then come back
before me tomorrow morning
and you’ll receive your
suspended' sentence and pro-
bation ; but you will already
have had an idea of what you’re
bargaining for if in the future
you ever step out of line.’
“Now, this little visit to the
jail has had a powerfully salutary
effect on many defendants. This
is not punishment, is it?
“It isn’t intended to be severe.
It’s just like putting a child’s
fingers near the fire: .only to
teach him that it’s really hot
and that it burns like Old Harry
when you play with it and get
real close. When he comes
back on the morrow, I say to
him, ‘How do you like it in that
cell? Tell me what you think.’
I draw him out. When he leaves
my court-room he has a pretty
fair conception of what he faces
—Sing Sing—should he go back
to his old tricks while he is on
probation.
“I have been fortunate in hav-
ing an extremely low rate of
recidivism —that is, repeaters—
in my court.”
After he had deplored the lack
of suitable institutions to which
juvenile offenders could be sent,
the consequent overcrowding
and the shortage of staff, Judge
Leibowitz was asked, “How do
you account for the rise in
juvenile delinquency?” His
reply:
Some Causes
“There are so many impacts
on youngsters today which were
unknown in the years gone by.
Life was much simpler in those
days. Today it is so much more
complex. And we haven’t as yet
caught up with the know-how
of bringing up children in this
crazy, topsy-turvy world we live
in today.
“Just consider what the
automobile has done to America.
On the one hand, the auto-
mobile has been a boon to life
in our country—it has been a
godsend. It gives us convenience
in transportation and has really
been one of the foundations of
our prosperity in commerce and
industry.
“Yet, there is another facei
to consider. The automobile
has tended to destroy com-
munity-life in all of our cities
and certainly in most of our
towns. Even some rural districts
are communities no longer,
because the automobile speedily
transports people miles away
from where they live. In our
cities, with the disappearance
of our communities, we have
experienced a gradual rise in the
incidence of crime, especially
juvenile crime.
“There is but one real com-
munity left in the entire City of
New York, with its eight-million
people, and that community is
Chinatown. Now, New York’s
Chinatown has practically no
juvenile delinquency and prac-
tically no crime.
“Years ago we did have
juvenile delinquency in our com-
munities, but not to the degree
that obtains today. We then had
no juvenile crime that compares
with the appalling condition
today. Those of us who lived
in the teeming tenements of the
slums of the East Side, the West
Side or Harlem knew everyone
else in the community. We were
born on that street —or, if we
immigrated to America, we
settled on a particular block.
Perhaps we moved around a bit,
but only within a radius of a
few blocks.
“Yes, everybody knew every-
body else. The cop on the beat
knew every man, woman and
child in his sector. If a person
was arrested —why, that was a
mark of shame. So the com-
munity had a real braking effect
on the tendency of a would-be
offender. But now that brake is
gone. You can live in one of
those apartment-houses for five
or 10 years and not have a
speaking-acquaintance with your
next-door neighbor.
“Even within the home, the
basic, traditional values in
family living are disappearing.
People worship new auto-
mobiles and television-sets and
such, instead of God, and
naturally the children follow
suit. If we can recreate the
older ideals, when children were
taught to worship God and to
respect others, we shall have
gone a long way toward restor-
ing the moral fibre of the whole
community. Could anyone


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bat -
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY RATES: *
Single Rooms —
From 15/- per day
Double Rooms —
From 27/- per day
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE ”
Telephone No. 80522
(16 lines).
mm
SKiJm?
is
H •
WMW*k Sr&r J *
,• . . r
■. i
—INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
■(.lncorporated in the British Colony of Bong hong.)
A British Office. FUNDSEXCEED £16,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BW 8131 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
FSF
m
+ 15 % More Lambs
20 % Ram Replacement
WHAT BREEDER, OR WOOLGROWER WOULD
NOT WANT 15% INCREASE IN LAMBINGS
WITH 20% FEWER RAMS
? DO YOU WANT
INCREASED PRODUCTION AT LOWER COST
OF COURSE YOU DO
/. USE
THE MERINO OF THE FUTURE
THE PRESENT DAY
POLL BOONOKE
DON’T WAIT UNTIL OTHERS HAVE FORGED AHEAD.
BEGIN AT ONCE.
• BE PROGRESSIVE.
Users of Poll Boonoke rams have averaged 10-15% more lambs at marking time, and
due to the remarkable fertility and longevity of these flock sires their annual ram replace-
ments have been reduced by 20-25%. All other things being equal, it is beyond all doubt
that the Boonoke Poll Merino gives economically sounder results.
THESE OTHER THINGS ARE EQUAL, WITH THE POLL BOONOKE TYPE.
THEY ARE PURE BOONOKE BLOOD, WITH 18 YEARS OF POLL
INHERITANCE, AND A LONGER LIFE OF SERVICE THAN HORNED
RAMS.
BUY THESE MERINOS OF THE FUTURE, NOW, FOR THIS SEASON,
AND FOR THIS REASON-
POLL BOONOKE RAMS
GIVE INCREASED PRODUCTION AT A LOWER COST
The various grades are available ex Boonoke North
(subject to sales).
Obtain particulars without delay—Contact
Sales Manager:
F. S. FALKINER & SONS PTY. LTD.
Boonoke North, Widgiewa, N.S.W.
Telegrams: BOONRAM, URANA. ’Phone: URANA 15.
Breeders also of the FAMOUS WANGANELLA ESTATE & BOONOKE STUDS.
doubt that the present wave of
serious delinquency would
thereby be checked?”
thereby be checKea.
tl d p._. nfe
The Parents
State Attorney John
Gutknecht, of Chicago: “I think
the basic reason [for increasing
juvenile crime] is a gradual
decrease in home-discipline.
The child that has never been
taught discipline in the home is
only going to respond to the
court when punishment is severe.
“Continually we find that no
matter what kind of a record a
child of 16 or 17 or 18 has, the
parents come into court entirely
defensive about their child,
seem to recognise no duty on
the child or on themselves to
help society. They seem to be
fighting their Government and
fighting society, instead of
recognising that if the child
doesn’t learn discipline early,
he can never find his place in
society. It’s the weakness of the
parents that too often results in
the crime of the child.
The average parent is very
much interested m this problem.
He’s very co-operative on
general issues. He thinks its
happemng all around him, but
can’t happen to his own child.
“Then the day comes that he
comes into court with his own
child, and he is often as
irrational as a mother-lion with
her cubs—purely defensive, not
recognising that the reason the
child can fight society is that
the child too often successfully
fought his parents.
“And, of course, the next thing
we can do—and I’ve been very
glad to see the steps that have
already been taken by the
industry—is to control the
comic-book problem. I am
certain, regardless of the lectures
by some of the professors in
sociology, and so forth, that
everybody who is intimately con-
nected with the work of the
courts dealing with teenage
criminals and delinquents will
recognise that vicious, brutal
and lustful comic-books cannot
help but turn many a child to
crime.
“You say a healthy mind,
maybe, can meet that problem,
Well, society doesn’t have to
protect itself from the healthy
minds. If society has a problem
with 10 per cent." of its minds
that aren’t healthy, then that’s
more of a job than the police-
force of America can contend
with.
“I think it is a very good
practice [to try boys over 17 in
adult courts]. Our [Chicago]
juvenile court is restricted to
boys under 17. Now, today
particularly, between television,
comic-books, radio, a boy of
17 is so much more mature,
emotionally at least, and in his
general knowledge than he was,
say, 25 years ago, when he didn’t
have the advantage of those
things that do develop him. I
think we must have a difference
between the treatment of boys
under 17 and boys over 17 but
under 21.”
The Schools
Police Commissioner
Thomas J. Gibbons, of Phila-
delphia: “We have to have a
respect for constituted authority,
and that’s not only as it applies
to the police, but in the schools,
“What are you to do withthe
problem of discp f. a wav
the school? Weve gotten aw y
from the custom of giving them
a cuff on the ear, as we used to
ip sc hool when we got out of
order We i earne d that you
cou jdn’t do these things in the
c j ass . ro om. You had to conform
tQ rules an ' d regulations, or else,
But we seem to bave gotten away
f rom tbat- j know for a fact
tbat any tbe youngsters in
school to d ay are cuffed around
, a teac h e r, immediately there’s
a demand to have the teacher
remove d and so you .can’t have
discipline.
“Corporal punishment or the
threat of Corpo ral punishment
works WO nders with kids,
« Q ne of the things that has
tQ be taken into consideration
when >re ta i k i ng about the
overall j uven ile problem is the
fact that we have boys who are
compelled to go to school after
the / reach a cer tain age. A
yoU n gster has to stay in school
until he’s 16
“This should be looked into,
because you have a great many
youngsters w ho do not desire to
g 0 t 0 school. They want to quit
J chool as soon as they ’re able
to t out and wor k, and a great
many 0 f these are your probiem-
cases in schooL
“They’re mixed in with other
s t u dents and continually have
the c i ass . roo m in an uproar,
The teache r is doing everything
humanly possible to get across
to the ot her kids, who want to
go to schoo l, the lessons for the
day, and yet they must be
sub j ected to the tortures of hav-
j two or three kids who don’t
wan t to attend and want to be
kicked out of schoo l and can’t
be k i cke d out.
“This compulsory-age law is
somet hing that ought to be
looke d into by the authorities.”
« . , Workers
sociai WorkerS
Police Captain Michael S.
Wolke, of Milwaukee: “Bring
about a better understanding
and co-operation among our
agencies, our churches, our
schools.
“There is room for improve-
ment. As you know, social-
workers don’t think much of
police-officers in their corn-
munities in the kind of job
they’re doing with youngsters,
But, there again, I think we can
help each other in this whole
problem of juvenile crime and
delinquency by exchanging
ideas, getting together with each
other, showing where our limita-
tions are, how best we can work
together instead of working
apart from each other,
“There usually is a bitter
fight between the two because
most social-workers feel that
the police have no business in
social work. We agree. We
are not trained to be social-
workers. We are police-officers
first and last. But we can do a
good prevention job from the
police point of view. And if the
social-workers could only realise
that and accept it we could be
helping them in their pro-
gramme, and if they, again,
would understand our position
and what we are trying to do
we could help each other very
nicely.”
Asked if there were an age
at which you have to stop tlunk-
ing about rehabilitation and start
punishing,” Captain Wolke
added:
“Yes, where there’s a pattern
of serious criminality. Beyond
that, you have to give some
other kind of treatment, just as
the doctor changes his treatment
for cancer, polio or any other
illness. We must work with our
youngsters in eliminating the
vicious type, the progressive and
the repeater from the ranks of
our criminal-files and give more
emphasis to this young first-
offender, guilty of minor
offences. That is what we in
law-enforcement are trying to
do.
“We’d like to see the pro-
gressive type of criminal put out
of the way so we could place
more emphasis on this young
offender. Social-workers, of
course, think otherwise, I’m sure.
They think every boy can be
rehabilitated, every man. We
don’t think so. We’ve got quite
a long history of statistics to
prove that that just can’t be
done. We believe that the young
offender, the first-offender, needs
more attention, and that is where
we’re trying to stress most oi
our effort.”
Hong Kong
The development of Hong
Kong from “an entrepot centre
producing little itself for direct
export” to “one of the import-
ant exporters of manufactured
goods in the Far East” is
ascribed by London “Financial
Times” largely to the influx of
capital, labor and enterprise of
Chinese refugees from the main-
land.
“That,” the “Financial Times”
continues, “is not to minimise
the part played by the British
and European community in re-
storing the economic life of the
island after several years of
war and Japanese occupation
had largely destroyed it. But
the greatly increased manufac-
turing power of Hong Kong is
largely the result of the initiative
of Chinese capitalists, helped by
a plentiful supply of disciplined
industrial labor.
“The development is perhaps a
significant pointer to what; the
Chinese in China may be able to
do one day in promoting their
own manufacturing industry.
There is no doubt, however, that
the political and economic
climate of Hong Kong has been
peculiarly favorable to the
flowering of these Chinese busi-
ness talents; whereas Com-
munist China has not.
“Moreover, it is probable that
Hong Kong has absorbed, at
least for the moment, a consid-
erable part of the active indus-
trial and commercial know-how
among Chinese businessmen. It
may not be so easy for the Com-
munists to replace this lost asset
quickly.”
Various Voices
Halford Reddish ( chairman,
Rugby Portland Cement Com-
pany): “Our local M.P. is fond
of telling people that when the
Socialists left office they handed
over [Great Britain] ‘as a going
concern.’ In one sense he is
undoubtedly right It was going
fast, and in a very few months
it would have gone—into bank-
ruptcy.”
Tom O’Brien {former chair-
man, T.U.C.): “The totalitarian
States would punish by im-
prisonment and even death those
who in their countries sought to
resolve their industrial griev-
ances by the type of tampering,
now known as the ‘unofficial
strike,’ which our democracy in
recent years has been obliged to
tolerate. In former days it was
hostile Governments and hostile
employers who raved against
the right to strike. Today it is
those workers who allow them-
selves to be duped by the pedlars
and cheapjacks of phony trade-
unionism who will destroy this
basic right to strike.”
Sir Thomas Beecham: “If a
composer can’t have his tunes
put on a barrel-organ he will
not achieve immortality.”
General Gruenther (Supreme
Allied Commander in Europe):
“By our own introspective
horror and consideration of our
own fears, we actually make
ourselves, in my opinion, tools
of the Soviets—unwitting tools
—and, from the standpoint of
the determination and stout-
heartedness that is necessary in
dealing with the Soviets, we
serve our own interests badly.”
Dr. Garbett (Archbishop of
York): “Violent denunciation
of the evils of war does noth-
ing to remove the danger of it
breaking out. Many have urged
that . Great Britain should adopt
a policy of non-resistance, but
this policy, if acted on, would
almost certainly bring war
nearer, for it would tempt the
strongly armed State to attack
an unarmed State whose ideals
and way of life it repudiated and
whose possessions it coveted.”
Field-Marshal Viscount Mont-
gomery : “In the next war it will
be possible in the first few hours
to attack the enemy with more
explosive energy than has been
used in the whole history of
warfare.”


•
• l
Holden Utility still
further ahead in value
Continuing the Holden policy of
constant improvement, General
Motors-Holden’s Ltd. has pleasure
in announcing further engineering
advancements in Holden.
New GMH Delco shock absorbers front
and rear, the relocation of rear shock
absorbers forward of the axle and new
larger bumper rubbers result in an even
smoother ride. Steering is improved by a
new linkage which cushions road shock
particularly on harsh surfaces. And further
improvements have been made to increase
the life and economy of the Holden engine
already proved by more than 180,000
owners. Now —more than ever —Holden is
Australia’s finest value and a demonstration
ride will convince you.
Only Holden Utility combines 6 cylinder
power, 21 h.p. performance and 30 m.p.g.
economy as reported by many owners.
In addition, Holden offers outstanding
dependability, high resale value, handsome
styling and roomy pay load area. A fmther
advantage is nation-wide availability of
low-cost factory guaranteed parts and
service. In view of the very heavy demand,
may we suggest that you place your order
as soon as possible.
HOLDEN*
Australia’s Own Utility
LIST PRICE £B5O PLUS TAX
* Registered Trade Mark
Australia’s Own Panel Van
LIST PRICE £865 PLUS TAX
CI9O
•Convenient hire purchase arrangements are available through GMA C—General Motors’
own hire purchase company • There are two Air Chief car radios specially designed for Holden,
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
I'm convinced CAPSTAN
is better tobacco f
“For me the Capstan blend has everything for
complete smoking enjoyment.
“The fine, mild Virginia leaf used in
Capstan’s ou>n blend gives it the flavour and
fragrance you, too, appreciate.”
Ask everywhere for-—CAPSTAN J
m
m
mm
CAPSTAN
-'britcr' iabweco
m
■^sm
VS///.
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT
ViPGSM!a Tonflr.r.o
2060.11.54
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Co-operatives
I spent an uncomfortable 10 hours re-
cently while a Government-appointed
committee inquired into the operations of
a ’ co-operative venture which had man-
aged to survive six years of farmer-direc-
tion before becoming the subject of an
official inquiry.
The trend of evidence, and weight of
it as well, pointed to an unlimited faith
on the part of the directors in (a) their
ability to produce a competitive product,
(Z>) their ability to direct the affairs of a
co-operative, and (c) an almost patho-
logical belief that “everything would come
right in the end!”
Concerning (a), they had something.
An industry had been started and had
produced a competitive product, accept-
able in open competition on world
markets.
Concerning ( b ) —that was where they
fell down. Every director was an honest,
hard-working farmer and, in most cases,
a successful one, but the intricacies of the
business-world were a closed book to 95
per cent, of the directorate. One director
didn’t know the difference between the
powers of a first- and second-mortgage,
and the analysis of the balance-sheet was
essentially a job for “Mr. Sekerty.”
On (c), the directors, shareholders and
quite a few' business folk who represent
the “dry” shareholders are keeping their
fingers crossed in the hope that a long-
suffering Government will salvage some-
thing of the mess.
My bank-manager was phlegmatic
about it. “The State is littered with cocky-
directed co-operatives which have gone
bung,” he told me. A large “dry” share-
holder said: “Another couple of hundred
down the drain is neither here nor there
to me.” But there are hundreds of pro-
ducing-shareholders, holding not only
scrip in the co-op., but large capital in-
vestments in the shape of land, machinery
and development, and who stand to lose
everything unless “everything comes right
in the end.”
Having attended the inquiry, I was
able to form my own opinion and I be-
lieve that the fault lies with the Act
governing the control of farmer-co-opera-
tives. This legislation specifically lays
down that every director shall be a
producing-shareholder. In other words, a
farmer.
Now, there are two classes of men who,
in my opinion, are unfitted to manage a
business. They are farmers and account-
ants. The farmer is an individualist with,
usually, a horror of figures ; the account-
ant is too much a man of business who
lets figures guide his every move, often
with too much caution. A farmer-con-
trolled organisation must lean heavily on
its secretary, and that gentleman is in-
variably an accountant. It may happen
that the secretary thus becomes, in effect,
the manager. That’s bad business because
the directorate, with an awesome respect
of a man who can solve the intricacies of
company-accounts, often let him guide
them instead of insisting that they direct
him.
In the specific case which interested me,
there are about a hundred “dry” share-
holders, among whom are the leading
businessmen of the town. A builder to
whom a half-million-pound contract is
no novelty ; a radio-dealer whose business
is worth halfway to six figures ;■ a general
merchant who knows the credit and finan-
cial status of everyone within a hundred
miles of the town —all these are “dry”
shareholders whose business acumen and
know-how could have saved the co-opera-
tive. By the reading of the Act, however,
their brains were kept off the directorate,
and a team of willing, honest, down-to-
earth cockies have been allowed to add
another “cockv-controlled co-operative”
to the list of those defunct organisations
which are, according to my bank-mana-
ger, “littering the State.”
As one of the farmers who will have to
tighten their belts to see the next two years
over —even allowing for another Govern-
ment hand-out—l feel that legislation
should be enacted to allow men with the
know-how to sit on co-operative direc-
torates and allow the farmer to get on
with the job he knows best —farming.—
Bung-Ho (Q.).
Freedom?
Australia is not cursed with secret-
police, but we have something very like
it doing the same kind of job in a less
official way.
Policemen of the official variety are,
as a rule, in uniform, and are paid to do
their job. This other unofficial brand is
not paid, although it gets a share of the
fine inflicted upon the unfortunate
accused ; blood-money of a sort.
Whether the accused ones detected by
the snoopers are selling something on a
Sunday or doing a job for the boss at a
weekend, or are a few lads enjoying them-
selves and earning some pocket-money by
helping the milkman before school-hours
—they are all in the same boat. They
are wicked people, not doing anybody
out of a job or doing anybody any harm,
but just bad, wicked people to be pun-
ished by the law because they chose to
follow their own inclinations rather than
the compulsory dictates of some trade-
union.
None of these repressive restrictions is
really of any social importance. None of
them could lead to social disorder or
revolution or anything like that. But they
can and do place the harmless individual
in a court, to be sentenced by a magis-
trate. Not to be released on bond, either
—one has to steal a car or assault some-
body to get that kind of leniency.—
Shellback (N.S.W.).
Kipling
One is so much aware of the debt we
owe to Norman Lindsay that it is a pity
to have to disagree with him about
Kipling (B. 4/5/’55).
It is true that many (not “nearly all”)
of Kipling’s stories are told in the first-
person, which device may lead to faults
in presentation. But am I to believe that
I should not enjoy Buchan and Stevenson
on that account?
As to Dunsterville’s remark, “After all,
we were only a lot of potty little school-
boys,” the fact that Dunsterville was
“Stalky,” Beresford “McTurk” and
Kipling “Beetle” is sufficient answer.
A critical review of Kipling’s prose
which does not mention his historical
stories is, to put it mildly, incomplete.
“The Eye of Allah,” “Proof of Holy
Writ,” “They,” “Mary Postgate,” “An
Habitation Enforced,” “The Story of
Badalia Herodsford,” and the best long
short-story ever written, “Kim,” are
surely the cream of Kipling’s work. It
is not correct to say that his work is
limited to India.
As we have all felt “the insolence of
office,” the story of “The Village that
Voted the Earth Was Flat,” despite its
elaborations, enlists our sympathy, and
fills Norman Lindsay’s specifications of
“lucidity and entertainment” with room
to spare.
So the author of the brilliant “Female
of the Species” “never knew women
existed”! He certainly was not preoccu-
pied with sex, consequently his gallery
of women-characters is more varied than
Maupassant’s.—J. V. C. (Vic.).
Typist’s Budget
Una Auld’s hard-up typist, on £ll a
week (B. 11/5/’55), pays out a total of
£6 16s. on rent, laundry, gas, light, heat-
ing and food.
If she were prepared to make her own
bed, clean her room, do her laundry-
jobs which every girl should do—she
should have no trouble in getting board
at £4 10s. a week, thus saving £2 16s.
She spends £2 ss. a week on clothes, which
is much too high. She should use some
of her spare hours making some for her-
self and clip another 15s. off her weekly
outlay.
The £1 Is. allocated for pocket-money
should cover such items as “hair-dos,”
tennis and social-clubs. Her savings
should therefore be £2 16s. on board, etc.,
plus 15s. on clothing. That would enable
her to save £lB4 12s. a year.—K. Me.
(N.S.W.).
Those figures are simply ridiculous.
The best commentary on them is the first
article on the same page, “Modem Extra-
vagance,” which commends the folks who
always “made do with the wages they


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:-**
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
$
CATTLE*
TROUGHING
SEPTIC TANKS
© q
WELL
LININGS
0
CONCRETE PIPES
0
Quality counts; that's why you should always specify 'HUME Cattle Troughing
Septic Tanks, Well Linings or Reinforced Concrete Pipes.
• Hume Cattle Troughing is fireproof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy
construction • Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success through-
out Australia. The tank is self-operating on the same principle and with the
same healthfulness and cleanliness of any metropolitan sewage system * Hume
Well Linings give you water all the year round for domestic use, watering of
stock and irrigation. Hume Well Linings mean everlasting protection for your
underground water supply * Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage. Other Hume
products include Pig Troughs, Brine Vats, etc.
Humes Limited also manufacture Sheet Welded Pipes for Wafer Supply, Gas
Mains, Hydro-Electric Schemes, etc.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY. PHONE 8X4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
6 FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON. HARDEN. LISMORE, QUEANBEYAN, RYDALMEf 2. TAMWORTH
earned” and “cut their coat according to
the cloth.”
Nearly every item on the typist’s budget
can be queried. For example, the main
item, food. Why does the lass spend 6s.
each for two evening meals in town and
12s. for lunches? As she seems to buy
food for her home, what stops her taking
a cut-lunch each day —as thousands of
men and women do?
Then, weekly hair-cuts at 3s. 3d. each!
With regular dry-cleaning, why does she
need to spend as much as £2 ss. a week
on her clothes? —N. O. (Vic.).
Simple English
Few will dispute “Aide’s” argument (B.
4/5/’55) that “simplicity and eloquence
are not necessarily antipathetic.” What
concerns many of us, however, is the
tendency to frown upon eloquent English
because it is not necessarily simple or
made up of monosyllabic words.
There are two tendencies at work. The
first leads to usage restricted to the small
word. This trait is now well installed in
most newspapers. The late E. P. Mitchell,
for many years editor of New York
‘ Sun,” once wrote:
The headline is more influential than a
hundred chairs of rhetoric in the shaping of
future English speech. There is no livelier
perception than in the newspaper-offices of
the incalculable havoc being wrecked upon
the language by the absurd circumstance
that only so many millimetres of type can
go into so many millimetres* width of
column. Try it yourself and you will see
why the fraudulent use of so many compact
but misused verbs, nouns and adjectives'is
being imposed on the coming generation.
In its worst aspect, headline-English is the
yellow-peril of the language.
The second tendency at work seeks to
create a fondness for pretentious and
pompous writing. A. P. Herbert gave a
good illustration of this when he trans-
lated “England expects that every man
will do his duty” into “England anticipates
that as regards the current emergency
personnel will face up to the issue and
exercise appropriately the functions allo-
cated to their respective occupation
groups.”
Sir Arthur Quiller-rCouch also tilted
at civil-service language when he defined
it as “the medium through which boards
of government, county councils, syndi-
cates, committees, commercial firms,
express the processes as well as the con-
elusions of their thoughts,, and so voice
the reason for their being.
Surely good English lies somewhere
between the two extremes of pompous
needlessly adorned English, and shoit,
snappv, soulless English. By all means le
us have simple English, but never at the
“Another lesson and I'll let you ride solo."
cost of denying the versatility of the
English language. It is the richest of all
tongues.—D. J. K. (Q.).
Australian Flora
When the average suburban home-
builder acquires a block of land it usually
contains samples of the local native vege-
tation which flourish in that particular
locality because they are suited to the
soil and climate.
The first job of work, as every block-
holder knows, is to “clear the land” by
means of bulldozer, rotary-hoe or plain
hard grubbing with axe, mattock and
spade. When the house is built, lawns
of English grass are planted and require
copious and frequent watering to provide
the unnatural conditions in which they
will remain permanently green. A selec-
tion of trees and shrubs, mainly imported
varieties, is obtained from the nearest
nursery and, by constant labor, the owner
maintains a garden which is a replica of
thousands of others and might very well
have been transplanted from England.
Rarely is any attempt made to study
the requirements of local soil or climate,
or to preserve the native plant-life, how-
ever attractive it may be. Yet Australian
trees and shrubs are every whit as attrac-
tive as the imported silver-birches, coni-
fers, oaks and the fancy shrubs beloved
by the suburban gardener ; further, being
suited to the soil and the climate, they
generally require far less attention and
are less prone to disease.
Civic authorities too often disdain the
native product. One municipal council
in outer Melbourne set aside a small park,
with a lake formed by damming a small
stream ; otherwise the area was kept in
its original state and the display of native
wildflowers was worth seeing. The last
time we went there a change had come
over the place. With some mistaken
notion of improving the park, the council
had laid-out flower-beds and a large rose-
garden, destroying much of the native
growth and ruining the whole setting so
far as we were concerned.
The councillors were not to be blamed
entirely, I suppose ; they were merely con-
forming to the traditional Australian
belief that the native vegetation is in-
ferior to exotics. —D. J. G. (Vic.).
Crime and Punishment
It seems, if you intend breaking the
law, that it is much cheaper to hit-a man
over the head with a beer-bottle, or even
kick a policeman in the pants, than it is
to take a two-bob bet away from a race-
course or sell a bottle of beer on a
Sunday.
Glacing through the paper, I see that
one man was fined £lOO for selling liquor
without a licence on a Sunday, while
a man who drove a car negligently was
fined £5. For assaulting a man with a
broken glass another man was lined £lO,
while, on the same day, an s.p. book-
maker was fined £5O for taking a few
illegal bets.— Eureka (N.S.W.).
Housing
As “Wusslean” noted (B. 18/5/’55), it
is not the State’s responsibility to provide
homes for people.
That was quickly understood by a
Greek migrant who, fed-up with the Aus-
tralians’ eternal cry of “Build us houses,”
related his own case to a Melbourne daily.
He came to Australia only seven years
ago and with very little cash or goods.
He now owns his home and car (fully
paid for). He asks, “When will Austra-
lians stop expecting their fellow-Austra-
lians.to build houses for them, instead of
building them for themselves?”
He is right, of course. Despite the high
cost of everything, this is still the land of
opportunity, and any decent, hard-work-
ing man who sets his mind to it can, by
economy and thrift, buy his own home.
—F.X. (Vic.).


{l?s]Cg hYs
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER hi
every Roll of Netting
v
I
■ ’
■ ms,wm
m
£
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN WOOL RESEARCH
The writers of this article,
K. J. Whiteley and G. H.
Ford, are both Bachelors of
Science (Wool Technology)
—graduates of the School of
Wool Technology, N.S.W.
University of Technology.
/*] LTHOUGH we are con-
tinually treated to a
I plethora of advertise-
ments claiming spec-
tacular properties for man-made
fibres, while wool is less pub-
licised, that doesn’t mean that
wool is being neglected.
The wool-industry in Aus-
tralia conducts an organised
Diagram of a wool follicle (see page 41).
programme of research in an
effort to (a) discover the
complex structure and properties
of the wool-fibre and (b) how to
best use and enhance these
properties.
The leader in this work is the
C.5.1.R.0., which has established
three wool-textile research-
laboratories. In Melbourne, at
Parkville, scientists are delving
into the structure of wool-
protein. At Geelong a compre-
hensive textile-laboratory has
been established, and already
there have been several outstand-
ing achievements. In Sydney, at
Ryde, the physical properties of
wool are being studied with
several newly-devised pieces of
apparatus, most of which involve
electronic - measurement tech-
niques.
As well, the School of Wool
Technology, at the N.S.W. Uni-
versity of Technology, aims at
providing a pool of graduates
who will be capable of under-
standing these new developments
and passing them on to the
manufacturer or grower.
Interesting advances have been
made in a number of fields:
for instance, the fleece itself.
In the past it has been claimed
that science has done little to
improve the ability of the sheep
to grow a desirable type of wool.
True, up to a point. In any case,
the Australian sheep'-breeder has
done remarkable things without
specific scientific aids. But
geneticists have been studying
sheep for many years, and can
now offer a practical method of
scientific improvement which will
more than double the present
rate of increase in production.
This increase in efficiency is
obtained by measurement —
measurement of the charac-
teristics in which the breeder is
interested, to a degree of
accuracy beyond the capacity of
the human eye and touch.
Using this method, the wool-
grower still culls obviously faulty
sheep arid, from the remainder,
selects the highest producers by
reference to their fleece-weights
and other “quality”-factors,
such as color, character, handle,
fibre-diameter, staple-length and
the crimps per inch: these are
estimated by trained technicians.
The high capacity of wool for
absorption of moisture, and the
heat generated when a piece of
dry wool is moistened, are the
reasons why wool is such a com-
fortable fibre to wear, and why,
to a certain extent, woollen
articles keep the body warm in
damp, cold weather.
The study of how and why
wool absorbs moisture is being
undertaken at Ryde, and very
accurate measures of moisture-
regain, or “take-up,” are being
made. Small regain-changes in
single fibres can be observed.
Lack of knowledge of
moisture-content in “lots” of
wool has given rise to many
arguments in buying and selling,
so research into the nature of
water-absorption could do much
to improve the basis for sale.
It is also very useful to know
the moisture-content of wool at
different stages of processing.
Solvent degreasing is some-
what similar to dry-cleaning. In
the U.S.A. some firms degrease
all their wool by solvents and do
not scour, but this process is not
very extensive. It, too, is being
investigated here.
The C.5.1.R.0. branch at
Geelong has devised a method
whereby the raw wool is passed
under jets of dry-cleaning fluid,
squeezed, then placed under
further jets of cold water which
remove the suint from the wool
along with any remaining
solvent. There, 4501 b. of wool
per hour has been treated in a
pilot-plant, the solvent being
almost fully recovered.
It appears that this process is
no dearer than ordinary scouring
and has several advantages over
washing in soap and alkali.
There is less felting of the
scoured wool, giving more top
and less noil (short fibres) in
combing. No heat is needed,
apart from that used in the
vacuum-still for the recovery of
solvent. Very little water is used
—consequently no drainage
problem. The recovery of
lanolin is of the order of 90
per cent, to 100 per cent.
Solvent-scouring is probably
the greatest advance made in
wool-“washing” in the last 20
years, because, with correct
application, it offers a product of
good color and handle, while
maintaining the original length of
the raw wool throughout
subsequent processing.
In scouring of wool, lanolin-
recovery from the washing-
liquor has always been of the
order of 20 per cent. The
C.5.1.R.0., using standard
flotation-cells (as used for
mineral-recovery), subjects the
liquor to the action of high-
speed impellers. The lanolin is
concentrated in the froth formed,
and this is drawn off, dispersed
in soda-ash solution, then passed
on to a separator from which
pure wool-grease is obtained.
The recovery is probably three
to four times better than with the
centrifugal method previously
used.
The C.5.1.R.0. is also finding
extended uses for lanolin, since
the production of this valuable
wax will no doubt rise. For
example, Si-Ro-Mark is a new
form of L.B.E. (lanolin-base
emulsion) branding-fluid which
scours easily in the mill yet can
be used to brand sheep in wet
weather without loss (as hap-
pened with earlier branding-
fluids).
Then there is the processing,
and the considerable technical
problems involved. The general
trend in processing, both in
woollen and worsted sections of
the trade, is a divergence from
machinery which is set to handle
a uniform type of wool. Such a
product, as we know, is an ideal.
The yarn-manufacturer has
resigned himself to a top which
varies in thickness, and research
now centres on mechanical
“brains” which can perceive these
irregularities and “inform” the
appropriate machine of their
presence. For example, in the
woollen-trade such a device is
used to allow a uniform amount
of wool into the carding-
machine and thus promote
evenness in the resulting slivers.
The Raper Auto-Leveler is a
worsted device which could well
revolutionise manufacturing
procedure. It does not aim at
producing a more even yarn.
The advantage is that it picks-
out irregularities in the top
before this is drawn-out by
rollers or thinned-down to its
ultimate thickness. Owing to
irregularities, we can only draw-
out a little at a time ; then we
must pool two or more of these
in the hope of cancelling-out the
thick and thin places before the
next drawing, to avoid breakage.
But with this new automatic-
device the top can be stretched
rapidly in the thick places and
very little in the thin places:
producing an even sliver. This
method will avoid many pro-
cesses and save much time and
labor.
Movement of individual fibres
during processing was, till
recently, a matter of guesswork.
Now, by coating fibres with
suitable radioactive substances,
their movement can be traced
with Geiger-counters. It is
expected that the results obtained
will lead to a better under-
standing of yam-formation.
An old English proverb has it
that “Three great evils come out
of the North—a cold wind, a
cunning knave and a cloth that
shrinks.” Australia has made a
major contribution to the
conquering of this last evil. Most
previous methods of shrink-
proofing have resulted in a loss
of weight of the final product,
due to removal of the scales ; and
in many cases considerable
damage has also occurred.
C.5.1.R.0. has formulated a
process which incorporates the
use of a nylon resin to “spot-
weld” the wool-fibres together.
This causes no loss in weight or
alteration of the fibres’ pro-
perties, but most important, it
almost completely removes from
the cloth its tendency to shrink
when washed. A remarkable
achievement in wool-technology.
Fellmongering is another
branch of the wool-trade which
may benefit from the application
of science. With Merino skins,
the wool is of greater importance
than the pelt: so these skins are
“sweated.” This process relies
on bacteria to loosen the wool,
which can then be easily
removed. Bacteria secrete a
substance which readily attacks
the material surrounding the base
of the follicle. Attempts are
being made to isolate this sub-
stance, so that the process can
be duplicated without the fear of
bacterial-damage (putrefaction)
of the pelt.
Wool Returns
Australia’s wool-cheque for
the nine months to March 31,
1955, was £59,782,151 less than
a year ago. Comparative figures
are £271,791,840 (1954-55) and
£321,573,991 (1953-54).
The National Council of
Wool-selling Brokers gives de-
tails of sales, with figures for
previous season in parenthesis:
Greasy: 2,944,687 bales valued
at £267,564,974 (3,084,067-
£316,046,129); scoured: 43,991
bales valued at £4,226,866
(51,599-£5,527,862).
Average values: Greasy,
£9O 17s. 3d. a bale; 72.85 d.
(£lO2 9s. 6d. —82.94 d.); scoured:
£96 Is. Bd. bale, 101.05 d.
(£lO7 2s. 7d.-l 14.03 d.); all-round
average: £9O 18s. lOd. bale,
73.17 d. (£lO2 11s. ld.-83.33d.).
Brokers explained that indus-
trial trouble in some Sydney
wool-stores caused one sale
to be cancelled: as a con-
sequence, quantity of wool
scheduled for sale was reduced
by 60,000 bales. Quantity of
wool sold was 146,988 bales less
than for the same period last
season.
Details for the nine-months
period, with 1953-54 figures in
parenthesis:
N.S.W.: 1954-55 receivals,
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(22/5/'55)
Two large sunspot outbreaks have been observed, and
these should become effective at the close of May and early
in June. This may confirm the heavy rains which are indi-
cated towards the close of May in N.S.W. However, apart
from some moderate falls on the coast and Riverina, rain-
fall should be below average in that State during June.
In Victoria, moderate follow-on rains should continue,
but only light rains in the Mallee and north country. Best
falls during June should occur in the western division and
Gippsland.
Moderately good falls should continue in S.A., but light
rains in the Murray Valley, and poor rains inland.
During June, W.A. should receive good general rains
in the south-west, south and the West Gascoyne, with heavy
falls early in the month in the vicinity of Perth. Light to
moderate in the Fortescue and De Grey areas, but elsewhere
below average.
LENNOX WALKER.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO VICENE TUIGUILO.—TAKE NOTICE
that MAXIMILIAN ADAM GAISER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1401 of
1954 on the ground of the adultery of
his wife BETTY GAISER with you. If
vou wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Bth August 1955 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. S. J. BULL, SON & SCHMIDT,
Solicitors, of 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
///
sW /
for •
;
A
•Stesst
• The strongest ready-to-use
animal glue for sticking
emery cloth to grinder discs.
DAVIS
LIQUID GLUE
Obtainable in 4 oz., 8 oz.,
and I gallon tins. Also in
tubes for the home.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
FROM * HARDWARE AND GENERAL STORES
The Farmers’ “Boy” and the Graziers’ “Boy” too.
m
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Plough attached.
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series 11, Mark XII, 15 h.p. VUliers
Engine. Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 2
Hoeing blades, lOin. Tool-bar, 3 universal standards,
and power take-oil'.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit
for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe
Paspalvm
guillotined l
Rotary Hoe
Saitbench
distributors
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney. BUISII. _
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd.. 90 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT S (Q'land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND Ltd., 115 York St., Launceston.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Laivnmower
Cutter Bar
Other attachments include: —
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR
tyres, Spray-painting, etc.
TRAILER. DUSTER. DISC
GENERATOR for hole-boring.
for inflatinp
EURROWER
HARROWS,
lighting, etc.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State
Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “h ARMERS
BOY ” and ACCESSORIES.
Name
Address
THE WOOL CARD
1,176,437 bales (1,234,969 bales);
sold' 1,030,948 bales (1,184,542).
Queensland: 435,657 bales
(417,107); sold, 390,842
(387,096).
Victoria: 1,030,262 bales
(936,870); sold, 869,898
(864,408).
South Australia: 397,640
bales (370,180); sold, 353,710
(346,799).
Western Australia: 316,432
bales (330,505); sold, 290,726
(303,974).
Tasmania: 70,900 bales
(60,758); sold, 52,554 (48,847).
Parakelia
“Breck”: Everyone seems
agreed on the ability of this suc-
culent to carry stock over dry
periods (B. 27/4/’55 and earlier),
but the degree of value is diffi-
cult to assess. Information is
a bit vague.
So far as I know there has
been no research on parakelia,
so a lot of questions remain
unanswered. Some Australian
plants thrive in temperatures
that kill scores of species around
them. Is parakelia in this cate-
gory, or is it a stayer under a
variety of conditions?
What is its water-content?
What is its nutrient-content? At
what rate do stands re vegetate?
These and similar questions
come to ’ mind. Personally, I’d
like to see them answered.
The “dry” paddock containing
parakelia mentioned by
“Norque” (B. 18/5/’55) must
have been a fair size to have
maintained 12 sheep for 12
months in good condition; be-
cause (as is generally known)
plants and roots pulled up or
trampled down by sheep are
equal to, or exceed, the number
grazed.
It would be a good idea if
some grazier made a serious
study of the plant. Assuming
someone of that occupation, in
the right district, is interested,
I suggest the following: Send a
specimen to, say, the South Aus-
tralian Department of Agricul-
ture for analysis and detailed re-
port (there may be some
difficulty about packing to
avoid wilting; D. of A. experts
can advise on this). Graze an
area of parakelia, then close it
to stock and see how it revege-
tates. If this grazing-and-rest-
ing rotation were carried out
over several years, thus observ-
ing the plant under varying
rainfall and temperature, the
true worth of parakelia could
be determined.
The late Rev. Dr. John Flynn
(“Flynn of the Inland”) used to
tell of how, during a Kimberley
drought, thirst-crazed cattle
came on a vast stretch of it :
“Like a siren the parakelia
lured them on, and over several
hundreds of miles. Then it
petered out. For those beasts
there was no return.”
There couldn’t be, of course:
being a succulent, the plant
would be a slow grower.
Tax Deductions
“Big Billy”: Professor S. M.
Wadham, Dean of the Faculty
of Agriculture at Melbourne
University, thinks farmers should
get down to the job of com-
puting their income-tax deduc-
tions reasonably 'early. He
points out that most farmers
have a good idea of their gross
income for the year ended June
30, but the planning should be
done before that date if full ad-
vantage is to be gained.
Wadham recommends that a
farmer should first make a rough
estimate of what gross-receipts
will be. Then determine what
has been spent and will be spent
in running-expenses, adding in-
terest on borrowed money.
Calculate allowance for de-
preciation of fences, buildings,
and other fixed improvements.
When the total of expenses, and
depreciation is deducted from
the gross-recepits, it gives the
net-receipts. This is the start-
ing-point in deciding taxable
income.
Deductions are made for wife
and children, and for medical
and similar expenses. Then
comes off one-fifth of the cost
of machinery bought last year
and this year.
Then the probable taxable in-
come will be reached, from
which can be gained the amount
of tax to be paid. If taxable
income would be just over
£3OOO, then at last year’s rates
a farmer would pay £822, and
of every £ over this sum about
9s. would go to the Treasurer.
If it is just over £2OOO, then it
would be £412, plus 7s. 9d. on
excess; if £lOOO, then £ll7 plus
4s. Bd. on the extra.
Once the farmer has made
up his mind on the figure his
wife and family need, whether
it be £l5OO or £3OOO, he can
reduce his taxable income to this
amount by spending money on
the farm.
Atomic Sugar-
research
“C.A.A.”: Atomic energy has
been responsible for raising
Hawaiian sugar-production to
new record-levels in 1953 and
1954, according to an American
agricultural survey.
One of the most important
projects in connection with this
achievement was a study of
water-distribution in the cane-
fields. Absorption of water from
irrigation-lines was studied by
adding radioactive rubidum to
the water, then tracing its course
through the soil with a geiger-
counter, which recorded atomic
radiation in the water.
These tests enabled planters
to design better irrigation-sys-
terns, with the length and slope
of each line engineered to assure
proper water-distribution
throughout each field. This im-
proved irrigation also aided in
distributing the ammonia-fer-
tiliser in irrigation-water to the
plants.
Radioisotopes were used to
determine the uptake of water,
ammonia and other fertilisers by
the cane. The same method
was used, and new data were
secured on the amount and type
of fertiliser needed to produce
strong, healthy plants, as well as
the best time and means of ap-
plying the fertiliser.
Another development in this
research is an atomic device
which measures instantly the
amount of sugar in crushed-cane
as it tumbles down a chute from
a shredding-machine. This ac-
curate means of weighing,
through the use of radiocobalt
and a geiger-counter, tells the
planter how much sugar his cane
will yield—information of great
value in processing and market-
ing.
In addition, the radioisotopes
have been used to study every
phase of sugar-production, in-
cluding yields in relation to
temperature and sunlight.
Ripe Honey
“Ninety-nine”: No need to
tell commercial beekeepers when
to extract honey, but for anyone
selling a few tins as a sideline it’s
as well to remember that
uhripened honey is graded low at
the market. So make sure it’s
ripe before taking it from the
hive.
Honey ripens differently in
various districts. In the dry and
hot inland it ripens quickly, and
the honey can be extracted when
the cappings cover half the
comb-surface. In the coastal
districts, especially in heavily
timbered country, the relatively
damp atmosphere causes slower
ripening, and it is then better
to allow the bees to cap the
entire comb - surface before
removing the honey from the
hive.
Even then the honey may be
rather thin, because in coastal
apiaries it is practically impos-
sible to obtain the density found
in inland honey. If, therefore,
in coastal areas the combs fill
quickly during a good honey-
flow, and yet are left unsealed
by the bees, it is better to provide
additional supers of empty combs
than to remove the unripened
honey.
By placing fine-mesh cheese-
cloth over the wire-strainer the
appearance of newly extracted
honey can be improved, as this
eliminates a greater amount of
scum than the strainer alone.
After straining, the honey
should be kept in a storage-tank
for at least a week, and any scum
should be skimmed off before the
honey is marketed.
Australian Wool Bureau re-
ports that U.K. manufacturers
used more wool during March,
1955, than at any time since
May, 1953.
* * * *
S.A. graziers want footrot de-
clared a notifiable disease.
* * * *
N.Z. Government has voted
£130,000 for the building of a
new wing to the laboratory of
the Ruakura Animal Research
Station, near Auckland.
* * •
C.5.1.R.0. reports that cattle
(other than Brahmin types) do
sweat; British breeds, appar-
ently, less than the others. An
Ayrshire calf and two Zebu-
cross calves were tested, the
Zebu-crosses producing about
four times as much sweat as the
Ayrshire.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT UK
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKiiEKE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARRERB
acta like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
bakkere distribution CO.
(Dept. St), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
4b
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOXi situated In tlie
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. PISHER, 8.A., B.Sc..
BRANDAUERS
FEDS
Every point
guaranteed
do not expert-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
FuiUi In the
Future
Eastern Australia has had more than its normal
experience of floods this year. Obviously a way
of mitigating them will have to be found as part
of our national planning.
After all, the control of floods—or of drought,
for that matter—is a test of our capacity to manage
our resources.
The important thing is that we should face it
in a spirit of Faith in our country, remembering
that the challenge of water and the efforts of men
to master it have been common to history all
through the ages.
China was recording disastrous floods 2297
years before the birth of Christ. Nearly 500
million people on the deltas and river valleys of
Asia still live in constant threat of floods and the
famine they leave.
At first the Asians adapted their rice and
other cultivation of flood conditions, and that
system continues over a huge area today. With
heavier demands for soil to grow their food, they
built dikes along the rivers.
In Asia and its island groups, more than 200
million people now live under the protection of
river dikes that give them a partial security.
But Asia, instructed by the achievement of the
great Tennessee Valley scheme in the United
States, and aided in several countries by the United
Nations, is now building large dams that will hold
back more of the raging rivers, release water for
irrigation and produce hydro-electric power.
Beside the enormous Asian task, Australia’s
problem in flood prevention is relatively slight.
But it is none the less real.
It is essentially a matter of engineering, of the
supply of machinery to make it possible; and, of
course, finance.
It will be costly, but that is part of the price
we must pay for survival—and success.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/ money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £3/10/*
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Spring Begins
by Marien Dreyer.—6o63.
To buy, in Melbourne, large, glass-
doored library bookcase, 9ft. to 12ft.
10ng.—6062.
To buy copy of the libretto of
Gilbert and Sullivan’s light opera
“Trial By Jury.”—6o6l.
Words of old Australian song
“Dig Away, Dempsey,” the first two
lines of the chorus of which ran:
Dig away, Dempsey, you will get there
by and by.
Dig away, Dempsey, you will get there
if you try.
—6064.
Words of poem which described
how a youth of 16 could not under-
stand the ignorance of his parents,
but who was amazed when he reached
30 at the amount of knowledge they
had acquired.—6o67.
To buy edition of Hoyle’s Games
Modernised, containing chapter on
Mah J0ng.—6074.
To buy copy of The Animals Noah
Forgot by A. B. (“Banjo”) Pater-
son. —6073.
Whereabouts of Tom Kerin, sister
inquiring urgently. —6072.
Information Sought
Names of ( 1 ) Australia’s first Prime
Minister, (2) first Premier of each of
the six States? Give duration of
Ministry?
(1) Sir Edmund Barton; Jan. 1,
1901, to Sept. 24, 1903. (2) N.S.W.,
Sir Stuart Alexander Donaldson;
June 6, 1856, to Aug. 25, 1856. (He
was succeeded by Charles Cowper,
whose Ministry was also short-
lived, Aug. 26, 1856, to Oct. 2, 1856.)
Victoria, W. C. Haines, Nov. 28,
1855, to Mar. 10, 1857. Queensland,
Sir R. G. W. Herbert, Dec. 10, 1859,
to Jan. 31, 1866. S.A., Boyle Finniss,
Oct. 24, 1856, to Aug. 20, 1857.
W.A., Sir John Forrest, Dec. 29,
1890, to Feb. 14, 1901. Tasmania,
W. T. N. Champ, Nov. 1, 1856, to
Feb. 25, 1857.
* * * *
My sweetpeas are yellowing
foliage and appear to be dying.
What is the reason, and how can I
save them ?
Examine the foliage for rust or
aphis. The former is a brown, dust-
like powder which robs the plant of
vitality. Remove affected leaves and
burn them; then spray with lime-
and-sulphur solution (trade strength).
For aphis, spray with Black Leaf 40
or nicotine. Sometimes sweetpeas
fail because of spongy soil at the base
of the plants. To get over this, press
soil firmly and apply all moisture
from a shallow gutter dug about
12in. away. Another reason for the
failure is bad drainage, which causes
damping-off. It may save the plants
if a trench about 2ft. deep is dug
4ft. from the plants and stones or
pipes placed in it. It is better,
however, to remove badly-affected
plants, relime the ground and make
another sowing of seed.
Jfc * if Jfc
A few particulars about Douglas
Jerr old, the English author?
He was born in 1803 and died in
1857. After contributing to many
papers and doing much literary
hack-work, he made a great success
with his nautical play, “Black-eyed
Susan,” which was produced in
June, 1829, at the Surrey Theatre,
London, with T. P. Cooke as the
hero. He wrote other plays, the
most popular of which was “Time
Works Wonders,” but only “Black-
eyed Susan” still holds the stage.
When London “Punch” was founded
he joined the literary-staff, and in
its columns appeared the famous
Mrs. Caudle’s Curtain Lectures
(1846). His other works include
The Story of a Feather (1844), The
Chronicles of Clovernook (1846), and
A Man Made of Money (1849).
From 1852 until his death he edited
“Lloyd’s Weekly Newspaper.” Of his
voluminous writings, all that survive
besides “Black-eyed Susan” are the
Caudle papers. He had a keen
sense of humor and a caustic wit
which made him many enemies, but
in his writings he was blatant rather
than refined. His books now seem
very old-fashioned, and he is seldom
read save by students of the humor
of the 1840’s.
Brief Answers
H.L.G.: Derby Day in England
is the second day of the summer
meeting at Epsom, in late May or
early June, when the Derby Stakes,
instituted in 1780, is run....
H.K.: The Porteous Riots were
caused by the hanging of a smuggler
in Edinburgh in 1736. Captain
Porteous ordered the military to fire
on the rioters and killed many. He
was sentenced to death but respited;
the mob, however, seized him after-
wards and hanged him E.M.S.:
The Stone of Scone was taken to
Westminster by Edward I in 1296.
It was taken away by Scottish
Nationalists on Christmas Eve, 1950,
handed back to the curator of
Arbroath Abbey in April, 1951, and
returned to Westminster Abbey in
February, 1952 E.W.S.: The man
has no remedy, since the deserted
party alone has any right to
take proceedings L.M.T.S.: Not
enough information in the
inquiry to enable an answer to be
given... .E.D.F.: So much depends
upon the circumstances which gave
rise to the joint ownership that it is
not possible to give an answer upon
the information furnished
H.C.M.: In a matter such as this
you will need a solicitor, and it is
suggested that, you consult one as
soon as possible. He will need to
see copies of the rules if you have
them, and will want to know the
exact words of the threats and to see
any letters or circulars issued to you.
TIB.: (1) Records of convictions
are kept permanently. (2) It is
unlikely to prevent the issue of a
passport, but it might prevent the
issue of a visa by some countries;
e.g., the U.S.A. (3) Most unlikely.
(4) Only perhaps socially, and of
course in the event of conviction
for some other offence. In the latter
case very little notice would be taken
of it by any court after such a lapse
of time R.R.R.K.: Unless the
tenants upstairs are willing to co-
operate or unless there is some
ground under the Landlord and
Tenant (Amendment) Act for giving
them notices to quit and having
them evicted, you will be unable to
use the upstairs portion. You may
be able to give notices to quit on
the ground that you “reasonably
require” the premises, and in that
case you would be bound under the
Act to provide reasonably suitable
alternative accommodation for the
tenants. You will need a solicitor
to pilot the matter through the court
if it goes that far; and the earlier
he is consulted the greater the
chances of success V.F.A.: The
population of Norfolk Island at June
30, 1954, was 942... .S.J.H.: Make
Your Stories Sell by D’Arcy Niland,
12s. 6d., any bookseller F.G.8.:
Sydney Cricket Ground No. 1 oval
is 174yds. north to south by 168yds.
east to west, the area being 4 acres
2 roods 10 perches R.G.: Write
D. W. Petherbridge, honorary-
secretary, “Men of the Land,” 126
Crystal-street, Petersham (N.S.W.).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered jor publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary .
J.R.P.: Well, at least you were
the only poet in Australia to remem-
ber their birthday.... W.R.J.:
What’s the trouble —claustrophobia?
L.G.: Much too tender for the
average hardboiled Bulletin reader.
. ...J.K.S.: Switched - off “City
Lights” A.D.M.: Suggest you
read Douglas Stewart’s “Lady
Feeding Cats”... .P.P.: Surely one
needs a little more than “food and
shelter and warm or scanty clothes”?
L.W.: Among the lightweights.
G.D.: No pearls in that lot
J.P.L.: Inclined to agree with your
reference to the glamorous blonde
M.N.: The halfcaste girl is retrac-
ing her steps home J.R.M.: With
“a cry of anguish” it leapt into the
basket F.A.: Not accepting “The
Challenge” K.N.: You became
hopelessly bogged after the first two
lines M.T.M.: Same old waves
breaking on the same old beach
L. : They were still slumbering
when we last sighted them F.T.:
Not bidding for that 10t... .S.N.M.:
Yours is the fifth storm that we have
survived this week N.C.: Our
basket is full of croaking frogs
S.C.H.: It is time you stopped
writing that baby-talk verse T. 8.:
That jet-plane screamed through the
office and out of the window in a
split-second C.R.P.: It has been
ploughed too often R.S.McK.:
They rarely arrive as uneven and as
full of bumps as that sample....
A.H. : All five missed... .K.M.R.:
Found company for the lonely ones
in the basket J.McO.: Sorry to
note that no longer do you sing and
shout “Wil’ Rabbo! Wil’ Rabbo!
Wil’ Rabbo! ”.... J.M.0.: The senti-
ment is admirable, not so the verse.
J.McI.: Must you be so
melancholy? W.H.G.:
Don’t let this tale dismay you
And cause you all to swoon.
It almost did P.F.: We suspect
that you are very young A.J.F.:
Not wanting verse beginning:
One nig-ht when I lay sleeping
An awful dream I had.
I dreamt I was tom-peeping;
Oh, I was awful bad.
C.F.R.: Will you please take
that wraith away? F.H.C.: Neat
enough, but not for us D.1.F.: It
ran off the rails V.M.E.: “If this
does not suit you I’m bunkered.”
You are... .J.S.G. : What has Mount
Everest done to deserve that?..'..
J.W.8.: We are pasting three lines
on the windscreen of our Holden: —
Speeding can be nasty,
Moonlight on road
Looks glassy, but not slippery.
.'. ..G.8.: Write it out as prose and
you will realise how unexciting it
all is A.E.8.; Afraid that you’ll
have to howl with glee elsewhere
W.G.: As you say, “it is no epic
tale” E.W.C.: That spider will
spin no webs in our columns
M. : “Alas, alone” your poem
“wal k e t h home” H.W.: “A
Raucous Greeting at a Caucus Meet-
ing” was received coldly M. 8.:
We guessed that the mopoke would
put in an appearance sooner or later.
I.M.: Our charlady thought it
wonderful: —
Hour by hour and day by day,
With countless cares attending,
Ev’ry day is Mother’s Day,
Her duties never ending.
J.C.: Our answer to “Three
Little Words” is three little words —
not for us F.D.: We have enough
cares on hand without adding flying-
saucers to our troubles G.D.L.:
On second thought, you had better
take it up with the Egg Board.


INTERESTING HANDBOOKS
THE JET AIRCRAFT OF THE WORLD, by William Green and Roy Cross— the
first complete one-volume history of world progress in jet propulsion. There are
hundreds of high-quality photographs and drawings. 44/9 (post 1/11)
HOW TO USE HARD TOOLS, by the Popular Mechanics Press —a “must” book for
every home workshop, with clear instructions for the use of every kind of hand
tool.* Illustrated. 8 / 3 <P° st 7<u
COCOA, by D. H. Urquhart, B.Se.— a new book which provides information of
practical use to the planter, and discusses important aspects of research. Illus-
trated with photographs. 57 /3 (post 1/3)
GRAZIERS' HANDBOOK OF DISEASES AND FEEDING, by V. G. Cole, B.V.Sc.—
deals with all the animal health and feeding problems confronting sheep and cattle
owners, and a section deals with plant and chemical poisoning. Ulus. 35/- (post 9d.)
Write, ’phone or call in jor these, and all the books you want to . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Available from all booksellers
Marcia Davenport
My Brothers Keeper
“What a book this is! A truly superb novel.”
—London Daily Express
“The best she has written. A book of tremendous power.”
—Glasgow Herald. 512 lB\9
COLLINS :: PUBLISHERS
Architecture of the Ancient Orient, m
the excellent Pelican “History of Art
series; Iran, in which one of the fore-
most European archaeologists, Rene
Ghirshmann, covers the story of that
country from prehistoric times to the
Roman and Grecian wars and the
Islamic conquest; Porcelain through
the Ages, a study of the art and history
of porcelain from its beginnings in
China 1200 years ago to its arrival m
the factories of England in the indus-
trial era.
Other volumes are Byron; E. M.
Forster’s Collected Short Stories;
Tender Is the Night, Scott-Fitzgerald’s
best novel; Lucinda Brayford, by the
Australian author Martin Boyd; the
Selected Essays and Poems of Oscar
Wilde; and, last but not least, Sybil,
Benjamin Disraeli’s most famous novel.
Using the strange, stilted, high-falutin
phraseology of the romantic novel of
his time, Disraeli tells the story of the
beautiful Sybil, daughter of a Chartist,
and her love for a member of the effete
aristocracy; and while he does it he
succeeds in painting a picture of the
Industrial Revolution, the decay of the
land-owning class, the misery of the
working-classes in the hungry ’forties
and the seething discontent which led
to the Chartist riots.
If he had continued along those lines
instead of along the lines of political
ambition, Disraeli would not have got
Queen Victoria the title of Empress of
India or executed the financial coup
which secured the Suez Canal for
Britain, but might have left something
of more permanent interest.
In “Lucinda Brayford” Martin Boyd
tells the story of three generations, be-
ginning when Lucinda’s grandparents
emigrate to Australia; but what goes
on between the engaging descriptions of
the French coast, Cambridge and the
Australian landscape hardly rises above
the level of village gossip.
For a deeper insight we have to go to
A View of the Harbour, by Elizabeth
Taylor, who, in an easy conversational
manner, gets inside the minds of the in-
habitants of a small English fishing-
village.
In the realm of science, Man and the
Vertebrates (a Pelican), by A. S.Romer,
makes a massive contribution. It traces
the evolution of the human body
through the backboned animals to
which man belongs, up to homo
sapiens, which involves giving con-
sideration not only to the other warm-
blooded hairy creatures to which he is
allied, but to birds, reptiles, frogs, sala-
manders and fishes; for, as Professor
Romer says, “We cannot properly
understand man, his body or mind un-
less we understand his vertebrate an-
cestry.”
To which it might be added that,
after we have understood his verte-
brate ancestry we are no nearer know-
ing what he is, where he came from
or why he behaves in such funny ways,
as if he wanted to wipe himself off the
planet. Professor Romer tells his story
in simple language without undue
technical elaboration, and in two fat
volumes covers 400,000,000 years,
which is almost as long as it takes a
motorist to find a parking-space in Mel-
bourne.-
F. S.
At Broken Hill
No Man Is an Island, by Donald
McLean (Heinemann), is a novel of
life in Broken Hill during the 1914-18
period, written by an Australian who
spent his childhood there and has
since achieved fame as an outstanding
schoolteacher and educational theorist.
It is regrettable that, in his anxiety
to inform, the author has spoilt a
highly promising work of fiction. The
opening chapters are so richly enticing:
Austin, the lad who tells the story, and
the other boys of the tiny town of
Burramin, leave home early in 1914
because Myrtie Lee, a half-caste
Chinese charmer, had become pregnant
and the local youths’ consciences were
not exactly clear.
But, at Broken Hill, in spite of a
series of interesting and potentially
dramatic incidents all based on fact,
the boys and the reader are forced to
spend far too much time listening to
quoted slabs of political and philo-
sophical theory. Ruskin and Marx
are given lengthy (if elementary)
airings.
Mr. McLean, it is obvious, has tried
to be (a) impartial and (b) matter-of-
fact. He succeeds in both aims, and,
with the exception of one glorious
character—Mrs. Oats who ran a board-
ing-house—the general effect, is, alas,
increasingly dull.
Reviewed Briefly
The latest addition to Seeker and
Warburg’s admirably produced defini-
tive edition of the writings of Franz
Kafka is Wedding Preparations, a
medley of unfinished short-stories,
essays and fragments from the note-
books. The most sustained and most
revealing piece is “Letter to His
Father,” explaining in great detail why
the writer always “dodged and hid”
from the old gentleman, “in my room,
among my books, with crazy friends,
or with extravagant ideas.”
* * *
Emergency: Michael James (Museum
Press). Autobiography of a hospital
doctor in New York’s “Hell’s Kitchen”
quarter. Tough and vivid stuff about
drunks, suicides, murders, battling
negroes, accidents and operations.
* * * *
Not in Our Stars: Phyllis Bottome
(Faber). Sociological essays, from the
viewpoint of a student of Adler, on
such subjects as capital punishment,
child delinquency, love and marriage,
“Books and How to Write Them” and
contemporary world-politics. On the
writing of her own books, the author
says, “I find the only thing that
matters is that one should have no
feeling of hurry and that one should
accustom oneself to write regularly
and not trust to trances or that which
is called inspiration. Inspiration, like
other things, comes much oftener if
it knows it has got to come.”
# * * *
The Worcester Account: S. N.
Behrman (Hamish Hamilton). Most
autobiography gets dull after the
author leaves his childhood and youth,
when he has been living on the earth
as naturally as a rabbit, and begins to
make a career. Which is perhaps not
always because middle-aged people are
dull, but because they dare not tell, for
fear of wives, associates and the law,
all they know about love and business,
Mr. Behrman wisely (unless he
proposes a second volume) stops at his
early years and quite cheerfully tells
all about his father and mother —
Polish Jews—his unfortunate brother
and his first-love,-Ada, whose steady
boy-friend, as proof of his unassailable
proprietorship, had the fiendish habit
of allowing rivals to hold Ada’s hand
for one minute, while he timed them
with his gold watch. A short book, rich
with American life. Much of it has
been published in the “New Yorker.”
* * * *
United in Crime: Montgomery Hyde
(Heinemann). Legal reminiscences and
essays dealing with such notable
lawyers as Lord Simon and Sir Travers
Humphreys and with a wide range of
less reputable celebrities from Horatio
Bottomley to “The Acid Bath Killer”
and “The French Bluebeard.” A con-
eluding group of essays discusses “The
Case for and against Flogging” and,
at considerable length, “The Problem
of the Young Offender.”
* *
Flamingo Lake: James Dillon White
(Heinemann). Speedy and well-
written action-novel set in Kenya and
right up-to-the-minute in its use of
Mau Mau terrorism for adventurous
atmosphere. The characters are
roundly depicted in all their various
hues of grey and the construction is
tight and convincing, while the final
tragedy is the inevitable outcome of
both the events and the people con-
cerned. Denny, appointed District
Commissioner to a terrorised moun-
tainous region, gained his job firstly
because he seemed to be the only avail-
able man who could build a strategic
road in very difficult country and
secondly because his superiors con-
sidered him worth saving from him-
self—he was beginning to drink too
heavily. His poor reputation did
nothing to endear him to Mrs. Stan-
hope—the real manager of her weak
husband’s farm and a fanatically
religious woman. When Denny and
Barbara Stanhope a dowdy re-
pressed girl—wish to marry, conflict
becomes open and the story moves to
its rapid climax.
* * * *
A Change of Direction: Mary Voyle
(Heinemann). Well-written but psycho-
logically not-very-credible novel told
j n t be first-person by its heroine, the
daU ghter of an internationally famous
German singer and his ambitious Eng-
jjs fi w jf e . The girl, Lise, spends most
0 f ber pre-1914 childhood with Eng-
fisfi relatives—craftsmen-businessmen
j n a sma fi town. During the war her
f a ther dies; and afterwards her mother,
returning to England, encourages the
daughter, who has a fine voice but no
musicianship to train as a singer
Use k ves wll ) her mother and Mama s
lover in a genteelly Bohemian atmos-
phere m London, the change of
direction being the description of her
realisation that her tastes, both in life
and lov . e ' a l e and
than she had first supposed. Very
slight, really, but so well done that it
provides quite enjoyable reading,
* * * *
The Smallest Room: John Pudney
(Michael Joseph). This is an historical
dissertation to which “The Specialist,”
which receives appropriate veneration
m it, is a nobie primitive artifact, as
Sir John Harrington s Metamorphos s
of Ajax is its precursor and, in fact,
inventor. As Mr. Pudney pulls the
chain, the whole history of the water-
closets, from the time when there were
no water-closets to the great moment
when Mr. Pudney s own supplementary
closet is completed and ready lor
christening, flows by; as a London
“Sunday Times” reviewer says— A
‘Golden Bough ol the subject. The
lack of arrangements in even London s
great houses that so discommoded
Mrs. Pepys, curiosities of English, Con-
tinental and American euphemistic
nomenclature, monastic manifestations,
Air Force adoption of the main prin-
ciples, famous marks on old and
standard china, are all part of Mr.
Pudney’s graceful catalogue; and, as
one would except of a well-known poet
and critic, he has not neglected a note
on papers and their watermarks.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 332
Across
I — Crabshell car speedily translating
dear peace into Italian? (8)
s—Address for a preacher answering
this query: “What would you
first do to the wood for paper-
making?” (6)
10 —Sepulchral half-nelson applied to
a cleaner. (7)
II — Drinking vessel spots a duffer
with unskilful lubras. (7)
12 —Stores abound in this pp, oppi,
or hoppin. (8, 6)
14 —See why the crescent lost Ely the
wrong way for a duplicator. (10)
17—Sail with this girl. (4)
19— It’s a capital place for a nourish-
ing lunch. (4)
20— They say who shall be the first
monk with ego neckwear. (10)
26—Cinderella, away at midnight,
certainly did not regard the func-
tion to be such an accurate
delivery. (4-6, 4)
28 — Thawed. (7)
29 Bun-coil arranged for one whose
mane will grow later on. (4-3)
30 — Stylish course prepared by Roy
Rene. (6)
31— Smash Desmond going to Helen 2 s
home-town. (7)
Down
1 — They steer the pops of chickens
with wagons. (10)
2 About a child lost by a lunatic.
(6) , , .
3 Pop no work at one s job suit of
armor. (7)
4 Stop the Spanish officer who
keeps nothing solitary in 150. (7)
6 An entry in the Luxembourg
Encyclopaedia. (7)
7 Before that is the south
monasteries. (8)
8 — Shot out of Buncombe. (4)
9 Craft kisses for punishment. (6)
13 — Canine duet by Eden? (7, 3)
14— Vehicle. (3)
■15 —Japanese sash. (3)
16 —The Spanish sun-up. (3)
18 —Laboriously nurtured with pen
foods. (8)
21 — Not out condition of the not out
batsman entrances alternatives of
Indian origin? (7)
22 — Gave off foul vapor which is just
about made to spin out. (6)
23 — Wedged to hold fast to a horse
with a leader. (7)
24 — The tangled one works by one
who composes Africans. (7)
25 — An East Indian rascal is
reforming. (6)
27 —Stick around a United States
base in the Pacific. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 331


WRAPPING UP AUSTRALIA
9BH&
Wj
A:
W’
'N;
A
t&H
AAA
>‘AtA
r=^e
•*%**
5%
sas;
'-•
!©S
333
9.
Ar-?
is?
j'Ss
6*~A>
S 2
3V^
rX
>-
■4?
"\ri
■^p
■AAA
I
"-v
■> &:%%?%$
c 6fdz&on/
our export
Our present-day standard of living depends entirely
on our export trade.
The overseas demand for Australian products depends
to a great extent on the attractiveness of their packs and
the condition on arrival. To ensure that goods arrive
in as sound condition as when they leave, paperboard*
packaging is used extensively.
The paper and paperboard used for wrapping and
packaging Australian goods is nearly all made by A.P.M.
—Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd.—who produce
nearly 200,000 tons of it each year. The paper and paper-
board are sold to other manufacturers who make attractive
and strong boxes, cartons and containers that are easy
to handle here and abroad,
A.P.M. produce 160 kinds of paper and 140 kinds of
paperboard. These are made by others into a great variety
of finished products that make work easier, or reduce
costs, or make life more pleasant in countless ways.
*The term paperboard embraces cardboard, fibreboard and other
heavyweight papers. Basically the same raw materials are used
for paperboard and paper ,
ABM
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne.
with Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale and Broadford in Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W. and Petrie, Qld. (under construction)
