

f
\fad*
SWEET
SOLERO
DRY
O R
The Bulletin
OLYMPIC BLOW-UPS— 2S
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3932
Wednesday, June 22, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
A STONY BURNS STILL SEEMS TO
CONTEMPLATE MANKIND'S
FRAILTIES
IvrO country has been more richly
' served by its poets, playwrights and
authors than the British Isles. London,
alone, has literary associations so
abundant and varied that no single
volume could exhaust them.
Scotland, too, has a vast literary
heritage, and just as the presiding genius
in the eastern Lowlands is Sir Walter
Scott, so the western counties of the
Lowlands are imbued with the spirit of
Robert Burns, Scotland’s greatest poet.
His birthplace was a simple thatched
cottage in Ayr, where he was born in
1759. The cottage is open to the public,
and adjoining it is a museum containing
many relics of the poet. Another museum
is incorporated in the Burns’ Monument
at Alloway, a short distance away, and
among the exhibits are the Bibles
exchanged between Burns and Highland
Mary, and also Jean Armour’s wedding
ring.
Still surviving in Ayr are such well-
known Burns landmarks as the Auld
Brig and the Tam O’ Shanter Inn, and
just outside the town is the Brig O’Doon,
scene of Tam O’Shanter’s wild ride on
his mare Meg.
Robert Burns settled in Dumfries in
1791, serving as an excise officer, and it
was there that he spent the latter years of
his life and where he wrote nearly a
hundred of his songs. The house in which
he died in 1796 contains many personal
relics and memorials in addition to
manuscripts and books presented to the
collection by Sir James Barrie. In the
precincts of St. Michael’s Church is the
poet’s tomb, a mausoleum in the form of
a Grecian temple to which his remains
were transferred in 1815.
Robert Burns was well acquainted with
several of the old inns in the town,
notably the Hole in the Wa’ and the
Globe Inn, where his chair and punch-
bowl are preserved. In front of Grey-
friars Church in Dumfries is the statue
of Robert Burns which is illustrated
here ; it is the work of Mrs. D. O. Hill,
and was erected'in 1882.
No. 251: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


you time. Let
BOOK If UN ii U, ox 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
!k u:t • ana buy your reading matter.
Write to HOOK B l INTER indicating your
books.
The Red Page
CANADA TO CANBERRA
In her literary capacity Mrs. W. A.
Irwin, wife of the Canadian High Com-
missioner at Canberra, writes under the
name of P. K. Page—and as Miss Page
she shall hereafter be known in this
review. She is well known as a poet
in Canada; has previously published
one book of verse, “As Ten As
Twenty”; and her second book, The
Metal and the Flower, recently pub-
lished in Canada by McClelland and
Stewart, Ltd., should be welcomed in
this country as an introduction to con-
temporary Canadian poetry, about
which most of us probably know far
too little.
Her book is one of a series with
the general title of “Indian File”—
other poets printed in which include
Roy Daniells, Robert Finch, James
Reaney, James Wreford, Alfred Golds-,
worthy Bailey and Patrick Anderson —•
and the publishers say that the hand-
some cover-design in red and white is
based on the art of the West Coast and
Plains Indians: so Canada has
apparently been having some sort of
native literary movement correspond-
ing to that of the Jindyworobaks in
Australia and to a similar rediscovery
of the Maoris which is now occasionally
to be observed in New Zealand.
Not, however, that there are any
Red Indians in Miss Page’s poetry; nor,
indeed, e cept for one picture of
Montreal’s ket at Christmas, when
the children haul fir-trees on their
sledges throu; the snowy streets, much
local color 11.
There is a. saltmine with a snowy
surface and an excellent deep booming
of miners underground; snow again in
a skiing poem, “T-Bar”; glimpses of
salt-water in several pieces, most
notably in “Portrait of Marina,” which
also gives us a pioneering-poem of the
sea corresponding to some of the
pioneering-poems of the land we have
had in Australia from Judith Wright
and othe But these seem exceptions
to the general movement of Miss
Page’s U 'em; or, if “Marina” remains
characn istic. t is because it is
feminine r than specifically
Canadian * —
Siii * / offs!-ora, it glints. Each wave
is capped
with broken mirrors. Like Marina’s
head
♦he glittering : these waves.
She wail rever antlered with
migraines
her pain ir putting forth new
shoots '
until her s e unlovely head be-
came
a it nd of ran, labra delicate
where all her rears were perilously
hung - g
and caught rb: light as waves that
catch the un.
The character’ {tic poetry of the book
is of two kinds: one, which might be
called Freudian nr clinical, very sharp
and up to date, moving in the world
of Auden and indicated by such
phrases as “the taemophilic snow” or
“the iodine ir,” such titles as
“Paranoid ai “Subjective Eye”; and
the other, as ‘Marina,” distinctively
and gracefully feminine, rising to its
peaks in the delightful picture of young
girls in ‘‘Morning, Noon and Night”
and the beautiful fantasy of “Images
of Angels ’ a poem which has some
affinity with me art of Rosemary
Dobson:—-
Imagine ihem .s they were first con-
ceived:
part musical instrument and part
daisy
in a white manshape.
Imagine a crowd on the Elysian grass
playing ring-a round-a-rosy,
mute except for their singing,
then gold smiles
gold sickle moons in the white sky of
their faces.
The clinical poems may partly arise,
as do the occasional over-vague rhymes
and obscurities, from contemporary
fashion. The feminine poems, cer-
taffily more attractive, seem to con-
us in more of jat Miss Page really
has to >.ay as poet. But perhaps,
women being realists in these matters,
and such a poem as “Probationer”
being simultaneously clinical and
feminine, both in the last analysis are
the one kind of poetry: that of a highly
intelligent modern woman, with a
talent of fine quality, looking out on
her world.
Vance Palmer's Stories
Alike in the limpid ease of his
narrative style, his mastery of form,
his interest in the eternal-triangle and
—though the Australian’s viewpoint is
fresher and more lyrical —in his vital
portraits of women, Vance Palmer’s
short-stories always remind this
reviewer of those of Somerset
Maugham; and it is curious that the
latest collection from Angus and
Robertson, Let the Birds- Fly, does not
make as strong an impression as this
similarity would lead one to expect.
There are, it is true, three or four
stories which strike home firmly and
memorably and in which his particular
view of life is developed to considerable
force: the sketch of the Spanish war
in “The Search,” slight though it is,
where the young soldier refuses to open
the cupboard full of concealed fire-
arms; the tropical yam of “Trochus
Island,” rather too obvious in its
contrast of strength against weakness,
where the half-caste Charlie decides at
the last minute not to murder the old
Scottish naturalist who has reported
him for dynamiting fish; and, though
one would like something more interest-
ing to happen in it than the trailing-off
into disillusion at the end, “What is
Love?” with its picture of love among
the Italians in Queensland.
But the general impression of a lack
of narrative interest remains; the feel-
ing that the stories, with their very
high qualities, should be better than
they are; that there is something
unfulfilled.
A couple of the stories misfire, quite
unexpectedly in a writer usually so
sensitive to landscape, from a lapse of
observation, or a drop in the intensity
of observation. Perhaps it is trivial to
wonder why the boy in “The Catch”
should be yelling “Quick, Brian. I
can’t hold it!” when he has only to
let the reel run with the big snapper,
and why he is not shown frantically
trying to reel-in as the line races “madly
backwards and forwards through the
water”; but obviously the writer has
his eye on something in his mind there
—an effect of pathos—and not on his
fishermen. More noticeably, there is a
most curious lack of conviction in
“Last Leave” where the young couple
are trapped in a bushfire: not enough
heat, somehow, not enough flying
sparks and burning streamers of bark,
not enough preliminary tension, not
enough smoke. Once again Mr.
Palmer has his eye on something in his
mind.
It may be that in some of these
stories, including “Last Leave,” Vance
Palmer’s approach to his art has
become essentially political; or, perhaps
one should say, journalistic. There is
clearly an effort to be topical, to deal
with significant Australian themes,
with what “made news” (and remained
of permanent interest) when the stories
were written: an excellent ambition, of
course, provided it does not, as it tends
to do hefe, blur or distort character
and becloud observation.
Thus “Last Leave,” instead of being
written to display young passion flar-
ing to tragic intensity in the trap of a
bushfire, as one feels it should have
been, seems to have been done to catch
the topical and national significance
of both a soldier’s last leave and a
Victorian “crown” bushfire. “Home
Front,” much too obvious in its
contrast of soldier and profiteer, is
another piece of war-time political
journalism; and “The Silky Oak,”
though full of lively observation of an
outback town, is the familiar political
theme of the wicked councillor versus
the aborigine.
It is not that, outside the confines of
the stories, one doubts the truth of
these revelations—of course there were
profiteers; and of course the aborigines
are often shamefully maltreated; and
a writer, provided he is still making
art, has every right to say so. One’s
criticism is that, within the stories,
Vance Palmer has allowed himself to
be led into caricature instead of charac-
terisation and to be diverted, from the
art of telling an interesting narrative,
into politics and topicality.
But more than anything else, it is
the final drop into disillusion, just when
one is hoping for some twist into the
rare, the curious or the comic, or some
heightening into drama, that robs these
stories, so attractive as they move
along, of their proper impact. In
“The Search,” because his mother is
absorbed in dressing for her lover, the
boy throws his snapper back into the
ocean; in “What Is Love?” the death
of a child destroys the passion between
the schoolteacher and the Italian
woman; in “Last Leave” the bushfire
which might just as well have awakened
a new tenderness in the soldier and his
girl, “not only dried up their springs
of speech but all the frail tendrils of
feeling and association that held them
together”; in “Mathieson’s Wife,”
enchanting for its picture of the girl
married to the old man, the boy who
aspires to her favors is cut out by an
older and more enterprising lover, left
“to dream of her quite often, and
gradually without bitterness, as a
radiant figure in the far sky”; in
“Greta,” with an equally captivating
heroine, the former lover who revisits
the woman turns away without renew-
ing his pursuit, reflecting, “The ques-
tion that had seemed so important to
him once had somehow lost its signi-
ficance... .No use pretending he was
the selfsame boy who had gone
through .that shattering experience
thirty years ago; no use pretending that
anything hung on baring the truth
about Greta.”
Basically that is the theme of the
whole book: that youthful passion,
about which Mr. Palmer writes so
lyrically, does not last.
Once again, it is not that one ques-
tions the truth of this lamentable dis-
covery. It is that it is disappointing,
after so many intriguing beginnings to
the stories, time after time to arrive in
the end at so bare a truism. One has
the feeling that a story should tell
something more interesting than this,
and that Vance Palmer, when he began
each one, really meant to.
It is like, as they say, being led up
the garden-path. Only, in gratitude to
a book which must give any reader a
great deal of pleasure and which,
curious to discover the reason
for the ultimate impression of
,a force not fully expressed, one has
thus ungratefully searched for weak-
nesses, it must be emphasised that
Vance Palmer’s garden is indeed a
garden; and tended by an expert. The
flowers of both women and the Aus-
tralian scene, whether inland or on the
coast, in Queensland or Victoria, do
flourish in it both beautifully and
sturdily; and many a reader will find,
as indeed this commentator did while
reading the book, that the pleasure of
looking at these as one goes along is in
itself sufficiently rewarding.
A "Jemmy Green" Discovery
In the latest issue of “Meanjin
Papers” C. B. Christesen announces an
interesting discovery relating to the
play Jemmy Green in Australia, which
Dr. Colin Roderick has attributed to
James Tucker: in brief, that Jemmy
Green first appeared as a comic stock-
character in a play entitled “Tom and
Jerry” which one W. T. Moncrieff
stole and adapted from a play by
another London theatrical hack, Pierce
Egan; that Moncrieff, said to be the
author of 200 plays, also wrote “Jemmy
Green in France” and a play entitled
“Van Diemen’s Land”; and that there
is also a further play, “Jemmy Green
in Ireland,’,’ of which the authorship
is uncertain.
Mr. Christesen says that, though “not
convinced” of Tucker’s authorship, he
is not disputing it but is suggesting,
from the similarities in the two plays,
that whoever wrote “Jemmy Green
in Australia” must have known “Tom
and Jerry.”
In the same “Meanjin Papers” there
is an essay by A. A. Phillips on “Such
Is Life” which, in spite of all that has
been written on that novel, makes an
entirely fresh approach: by “reading
back” into the text the slice which
Furphy cut out to make “Rigby’s
Romance,” and showing how the inclu-
sion of that tale of disillusion in love
would enormously have strengthened,
by contrast, the somewhat sentimental
love-story of “Nosey Alf,” on which the-
structure of the novel now chiefly rests*
Reviewed Briefly
The Diary of an Ugly Duckling;
Marianne Becker (Seeker and War-
burg). Beautifully translated by
Jonathan Griffin from the French, this:
novel by a Viennese woman living in
Paris tells in diary-form of a year in
the life of a girl of fifteen. Cra-Cra*
the narrator, is a plain and hyper-
sensitive girl, tormented by her aware-
ness of her family’s indifference to her
and by her failure to make real friend-
ships with her contemporaries. She
sets out to discover her true nature
and, also, the meaning of love. As a
picture of a thoroughly unhappy*
maladjusted and parentally-rejected
adolescent the thing is excellently-
done. And, for those who like to find
it, there is a certain sort of humor to
be had from the naivete of some of
Cra-Cra’s inferences. Drama is
supplied by her discovery of Papa’s
peccadilloes, and the loss of her adored
pet dog. The book has a flavor
difficult to convey—this reader
neglected everything else to finish it at
a sitting. -
* * * *
No Love Lost: Margery Allingham,
(The World’s Work). This book
contains two short novels—“stories
of suspense,” Miss Allingham calls,
them; and so they are. In the first*
the young woman-doctor in the country
practice is called to attend the doped
screen-actress who stole her lover soma-
years before and finds herself the
stooge or fall-guy in a deliberate
attempt at murder. In the second the
young wife of the owner of a small
English grammar-school, an ageing and
calculating philanderer, is left alone in
the school at the close of term, and
then put under suspicion of having shot
him and pushed him down a well. The
first is a suspense-story pure and
simple; the second is complicated by a
little home-spun detection.
* * * *
The Chinese Bed Mysteries: A. E,.
Martin (Reinhardt). Mr. Martin, an
Australian who has managed boxers*
freaks and theatricals, puts his know-
ledge of sideshow freaks to good
purpose in this detective story set in
a Queensland coastal town. The
fat man’s beautiful wife is playing
with the manager of the show**
she is also loved by the strong-
man, whose little Elita disap-
proves. Then the bearded woman dis-
appears, to the curious discomfiture
of a newly-married couple; and the
murders really begin when a visiting
actress is persuaded, as a publicity-
stunt, to spend a night in a Chinese
Bridal Bed. The detective is a simple
manager of sideshow performers, and
the muddled plot is not quite so
interesting as the exact presentation of
the people. The portrait of the fat
man, so flaccid that he is unable to
move without help, who has to be con-
stantly sprayed with scent, is very good
indeed, and so sympathetically done-
as to remain with the reader long after
he has forgotten who killed whom.
* * * *
Art Fakes and Forgeries: Fritz
Mendax, translated from the German
by H. S. Whitman (Werner Laurie).
Rambling and heavily jovial in style*
the author has lost all simplicity and
clarity of theme by bringing in*
amongst the “forgeries,” any painting
so well done that it deceived a person
looking at it—like the famous grapes
of Zeuxis in Athens in the fourth
century B.C. —and also the copies of
masterpieces (such as those Rubens
made for the Duke of Mantua) which
artists and students regularly made
without any intention of faking. Thus
it is a long and winding way—though
by no means uninteresting —to
Wacker’s Van Goghs (the falsity of
which was discovered by detecting a
resinous medium in the paint and by
X - ray photographs) and Van
Meegeren’s notorious Vermeers.


RNS’
HORD
ANTHONY
BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY
mm
mmmm.
■ v v :
B
: s
m
mm
mu
-m
ISM
m
r
,fj
.
.-:■ .
m
■ y :
COVERING FOR HOT PLATE
TWO OVENS
FINGER-TIP TEMP. CONTROL
For Immediate delivery ■ the famous Scotch made
WELLSTOOD” cooker-heater
One of the most popular of the Esse products, the "Wellstood” is perfect for country homes. It has two
roomy ovens and ample hot plate space, maintaining balanced temperature necessary for
well-cooked meals. The "Wellstood” is available with either cream or green stipple
finish (hot water storage e£tra), and it’s available
£132
ON THE EASIEST TERMS IN SYDNEY ANO COUNTRY
AREAS!
v-'
mm 1»
m
wm
i :
MMsm
mm.
m
.M- «*- *
?»&>
1111%, - ■:' .;
HOT WATER IN THE BATHROOM.
You have hot water 24 hours a day in your bath'
room. Enough hot water for a family of six, too!
m
~~*'V-:o,
KITCHEN. Hot water is always at hand for
washing up, washing clothes and for its dozens of
other uses in the kitchen. All this with a “Wellstood”,
I -A ' »
IS ;
ilil
•••'•: •>
wmm
•• ' \ T' i
. 11l
SSWJ
S:SJj
m®
mm*
AND LAUNDRY. The “Wellstood” will burn
almost any type of fuel. Burns wood, coal or coke.
Whatever you use turns out hot water economically!
“MASTERS OF MUSIC”
Join the thousands who listen each Sunday night at 9.30 p.m. to
hours of uninterrupted Classical music. Tune in to 2SM each Sunday.
AT"R UIH i AOV£t?T!SJ
nthony Horderns’
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’ DO
NOT PAY FREIGHT.
’PHONE: 80951
-■ .. * ■ ■ ' 0 v . ■ • ,
BOX
2712,
G.P.0.,
SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 22, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3932
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
PARLIAMENT AND ITS POWERS
PUTTING aside the hysteria, false sentiment and
ignorance which surround the public discussion of
Parliament’s action in jailing Raymond Fitzpatrick
and Frank Browne, the incident should serve a
useful purpose and bring to issue matters which
have been in dispute in Parliament for years.
The whole business has thrown the spotlight
once more on the utter inadequacy of Parliamentary
powers and Federal Parliamentary law. The present
Speaker of the House of Representatives for the
past six years has been emphasising the facts, some-
times vehemently, in and out of Parliament, without
receiving support either from the Government
or from the people who are now yelling loudest
about weaknesses and abuses which have been
clear to everybody connected with the running of
Parliament since Federation. As far back as 1908
the Quick Committee was appointed to explore
some of them.
Glaring cases were the appointment of the
Speaker, Mr. Rosevear, and others to offices-of-
profit under the Crown during the war —when Mr.
Rosevear drew a supplementary income as Leather
Controller, and other “Labor” M.P.s were fed with
perks; the legislation to provide Parliamentary
pensions; the payment of salaries to the Leader of
the Opposition and the Whips; and the appoint-
ment of under-secretaries, to which the Speaker
objected so vigorously that the appointments now
are little more than token offices.
The same doubt applies to some features of
the legislation dealing with Parliamentary salaries
which provide differential rates of payments
through the variation of expense-allowances. On
all these matters the use of alleged powers by the
Government and Parliament call for some searching
Constitutional inquiry both into the extent of
Parliament’s power and into the manner in which
some of the powers which it supposedly has are
used.
The Fitzpatrick-Browne case highlights one
odd aspect of the matter with a vengeance: the
manner in which Parliament’s privilege to protect
its members is exercised. It is admitted by all
authorities that Parliament has this power, archaic
though it may be in principle. The Crown, the
Government legal authorities, the Speaker and his
advisers, and the House of Representatives,
including even Dr. Evatt (who as a matter of
expediency usually disagrees with everything the
Government does), were unanimous that the House
had the right to refer for trial to the Committee of
Privileges a case of attempted pressure on a member
and that the House had also the power to punish
upon the committee’s verdict.
But most authorities have also long agreed that
the present system is archaic and should be brought
into line with modem ideas, more especially since
the Federal Parliament is not parallel in its powers
with the British Parliament, the source of its
privileges and procedure, but in some things is only
half a Parliament with less authority than the
constituent States of the Federation.
In the Browne-Fitzpatrick case agreement that
the offenders should be punished was, it should be
remembered, complete.
It is in the light of this agreement as much as
anything that the unevenness and the differentia-
tion which is obvious in the manner in which the
ancient privileges are applied, as between
distinguished members of Parliament and outsiders,
especially calls for attention.
It is only about seven years since there was
another case of privilege before Parliament. The
circumstances were that A. M. Blain, M.P., member
for the Northern Territory, a retumed-soldier of two
wars and a badly battered prisoner of the Japanese,
sought to ask in Parliament questions affecting the
alleged breach by the then Attorney-General, Dr.
Evatt, of the National Security (Building) Regula-
tions which limited the cost of war-time additions
to homes to £25. His question was motivated by
the fact that returned-soldiers who had built iron
humpies in the backyards to house their wives had
been prosecuted and fined.
Mr. Blain was then accused by interjection by
a “Labor” member in the House of having shown
his gold-pass to the Japanese while a prisoner in
order to gain special treatment for himself. Public
resentment forced the reference of the matter to a
privileges committee. Dr. Evatt, then Attorney-
General, assumed the chairmanship of the
committee!
The committee proceeded to try not those
who allegedly had threatened and libelled Mr.
Blain, apparently with a view to intimidate him, but
Blain himself. No evidence of the truth of the
disgusting libel against the gallant and tortured
member was adduced. The motion by J. P. Abbott,
M.P., in the committee, that three alleged witnesses
who had been named by Blain’s attacker should be
called was negatived.
His attackers went scot-free; the charge of
intimidation —those who alleged it publicly
expressed themselves willing to give evidence on
oath about it —went uninvestigated. All that
happened was that at 10.50 p.m. one evening, as
“The Bulletin” reported at the time, when the press
had lost interest in the proceedings and the Opposi-
tion was so taken by surprise that it did not even
move that the report be printed, Dr. Evatt softly
laid the report of the committee on the table of the
House.
Only recently, also, there has been an incident
of equally vital import. In this also Parliament —
and particularly Dr. Evatt himself—has been
involved. The facts are notorious. Parliament
appointed a royal commission under Statute to
inquire into a matter seriously affecting the security
of the country. It consisted of three judges of State
Supreme Courts, and it is evidence of the feebleness
with which the light of authority bums in the
Federal Parliament that it was not found possible
to give these jurists engaged on a vital inquiry on
behalf of the Commonwealth power to protect
themselves by punishing insolence and disorder in
their court. Taking advantage of this fact and the
circumstances in which two of his secretaries were
to be questioned on not very material matters before
the commission, Dr. Evatt attended as counsel. He
insulted the commissioners, inferred bias and
impropriety in their actions. He alleged conspiracy
and forgery by witnesses. He obviously had set
out, as the legal representatives of the Communist
party were also doing, either to wreck the commis-
sion or destroy the public faith in the integrity of
the commissioners and in their finding. He was
eventually ejected from the Bar-table by judges
who were unable to punish him, he having failed
to offer any evidence whatever to support the
wanton charges which he had made.
Yet Parliament as a whole did not lift a finger
to deal with Dr. Evatt over his behavior towards
the judges who had agreed at great inconvenience
to themselves to be its instruments. A large section
of M.P.s, viewing the matter on party lines,
condoned what he did.
The contrast between Parliament’s actions in
these two cases and its action in the Fitzpatrick-
Browne case speaks for itself as an argument
for a reform of the Constitution, for some
authoritative review of Parliament’s powers and
privileges and for divesting Parliament —and
especially single Houses of Parliament—of the
judicial function which has been used so
arbitrarily and unevenly.
Those Margins Again
WITH the ending of the British railway strike the
biggest threat Britain’s economy has faced since
the end of the war has mercifully passed. The strike
was something out of pattern with the usual run of
industrial disputes in Britain in that it was a strike of
skilled workers, acting in defiance of the advice and
wishes of the Trade Union Congress and the Labor
party. Its significance is that the engine-men no
longer have any faith in the ability or intention of
organised Labor to look after their interests. The
strikers belong to the Associated Society of Loco-
motive Engineers and Firemen. The other, and
much bigger, railway union, the National Union of
Railwaymen, includes some engine-drivers and
firemen in its ranks, but most of its membership
is made up of porters and other railway employees
of lesser grades of skill than the footplate men.
The A.S.L.E.F. has felt that in past bargaining
and badgering the bigger union has received the
better deal and that with both the T.U.C. and the
Transport Commission numbers have counted
rather than skill and training. No one who has
made a study of wage-trends over the last decade
will deny that they are right, however much their
ill-advised and unwarranted direct action may be
deplored.
The improvement in financial status of the
unskilled or semi-skilled worker in relation to the
skilled worker is not confined to the United
Kingdom; the same tendency is also apparent in
this part of the world. It has been commented on
by Arbitration Court judges, industrialists and
economists, but, despite the crocodile-tears shed by
“Labor” Ministers of Education over the difficulty
of persuading sufficient lads to become apprenticed
to skilled trades, it remains the policy of organised
“Labor.” Early last year the president of the New
Zealand Arbitration Court, Mr. Justice Tyndall,
remarked that because of the powerful bargaining-
capacity of the big trade-unions, whose members
were largely unskilled, “payment of extra wages for
skilled workers is on the way out.” The tendency
in the Dominion, he said, was towards an almost
uniform rate of pay. New Zealand is not nearly
so industrialised as Australia, and, if the trend
noted by Judge Tyndall is not reversed, it never
will be, as there will be no incentive to develop the
skills necessary to expand industry.
The Federal Arbitration Court has made its
opinion on the relative claims of skilled and
unskilled workers for their share of the wage-fund
quite clear. Fifteen months ago, in its interim
judgment in the margins case, in which claims were
made for increased margins for all grades of
employees in the metal-trades, the court said:—
It has been at the instance of employees’
organisations that the arbitration tribunals have
been moved to raise real standards generally, but
this has been in most instances without regard to
the differing worth of the contributions of skill
and effort applied in the output of the wage-
earners concerned. The policy, if such it may be
called, has been in line to a large extent with the
extension of legislatively-provided “social service”
benefits, the cost of which has, of course, been
also ultimately paid out of the national-production
returns.
The court rejected absolutely the contention that
margins should be related to variations in the basic
wage, and it said that among benefits which all, or
most, employees had received at the instance of
the unions since the war could be listed a real
increase in the basic wage; the extension of paid
annual leave; reduction of hours from 44 to 40;
increased penalty-rates; and “large increases in
margins for work which is unskilled or which
requires little skill or experience.”
The really skilled employee has shared in
most of these improvements, but his position as to
his award wages has deteriorated since the war
if it is compared with that of the unskilled
employee. The principal causes of this have been
that the skilled and the unskilled have received
the same increases in the basic wage, that the
increases in the margins of the unskilled have been
relatively higher than those of the skilled and that
the real value of margins has fallen.
At the time of writing that, the court said that the
main question was whether the economy of the
nation could support a restoration in part of the
real value of the marginal rewards prescribed as
minima for skilled tradesmen, and that “unless
there is a compensatory rise in productivity in real
terms it is apparent that, generally speaking,
a levelling-up of minimum living standards must
involve some levelling-down of higher standards.”
The court postponed its decision for nine
months, but in November, 1955, issued a judgment
which put into effect the principles expressed
earlier. Skilled workers were granted substantial
increases; semi-skilled men got smaller rises; the
unskilled, none.
The reaction of the A.C.T.U. and the big
unions was to welcome the increases, but to deplore
the fact that they weren’t bigger and weren’t
general. The warning of the court that a general
increase in the present state of the national economy
could endanger employment was completely ignored
—and continues to be completely ignored.
The reasons for this are inherent in the
make-up of the “Labor” movement. “Labor”
seeks to achieve office by gaining the support of
the masses. Although it professes to look after
the interests of all classes of worker, its policies are
swayed by the big battalions within its ranks, and
where the interests of the skilled minority clash
with those of the unskilled majority there is never
any doubt which way the party decisions will go.
If improved living standards be thought of in
terms of more butter on the bread, then the function
of organised “Labor” since the war has been to see
that the butter is more evenly distributed; it has
not been responsible for the production of more
butter. Any increase that has been achieved has
been the result of improved techniques. It could
also have been brought about by greater effort
by the work-force in general, but nowhere has
organised “Labor” urged this. On the contrary,
through a universal striving towards a shorter
working-week, it has tended to nullify the gains
made possible by improved techniques.
On the surface, with full employment and all
outward signs of prosperity, the Australian economy
appears to be in a flourishing condition, but the
expansion of secondary industry which is essential
to meet the increasing needs of a rapidly growing
population cannot possibly come about unless
sufficient inducement is offered to encourage young
people to train for technical and skilled jobs instead
of taking the easy course of joining the vast army
of machine-minders and process-workers (“no
previous experience needed”) who, although
essential to the mass-production age, have no
moral claim upon society for the same reward as
the men who make the machines or evolve the
processes.
The laborer is worthy of his hire, now as in
Biblical days, but unless there is a reasonable
margin between the hire of the laborer and the hire
of the skilled tradesman it will not be long before
there are not enough tradesmen to keep the
laborers in employment.


THE FOSSICKER


PLAIN ENGLISH
Another Victorian Election
“Labor” expectations that the swing to
the Liberal-Country-party shown at the
Victorian Assembly elections on May
28 would not be repeated in the poll for
half the Legislative Council on Saturday
proved to be no more than wishful-think-
ing. Of the 17 seats contested the L.C.P.
won nine, the Country party four and
Cain “Labor” four. This result rather
exaggerates the electoral position; all
three main parties retained the seats of
their retiring members, but both the
Liberals and Cain “Labor” gained at the
expense of the splinter-groups.
The 17 retiring M.L.C.s comprised
seven L.C.P.S., two Hollway Liberals,
four C.P., three Cain “Labor,” and one
Coleman-Barry “Labor.”
The Hollway Liberals, Macleod and
Gartside, who had' held the balance-of-
power in the Council since 1952, were
decisively beaten by L.C.P. candidates in
Western and South-Eastern Provinces
respectively, thus completing the liquida-
tion of their party in the Victorian Par-
liament. In Melbourne West the Cain
“Labor” man, B. Machin, defeated P. L.
Coleman, joint-leader of the breakaway
“Labor” group, by a huge margin. Cole-
man was the only sitting member of his
party to face the electors on Saturday ;
the remaining five have three more years
to run.
The real significance of Saturday’s vot-
ing was that the 17 retiring members were
contesting their seats for the first time
under full adult suffrage. When the
other half of the House was elected in
1952 on the same franchise “Labor”
won 11 seats, Country party four, L.C.P.
one and there was one Independent
Liberal. Compared with that election the
swing against “Labor” is every bit as
great as in the Assembly poll on May 28.
In the only two fights it was
very marked —Ballaarat, which “Labor”
won in 1952 by 9000, this time went to
the L.C.P. with a majority of 6000;
Monash gave “Labor” a 6000 lead in
1952, but switched to a 19,000 L.C.P.
majority on Saturday.
Premier Bolte’s party will have 10
members in the new Council and can
count on the general support of the eight
Country-party men. The Opposition
divides into 10 Cain “Labor” and five
Coleman-Barry “Labor.” The remain-
ing member is the president, Sir Clifden
Eager, elected as an Independent Liberal.
Australians in Malaya
The announcement of the Prime Minister
that the Second Battalion of the Austra-
lian Royal Regiment would be allotted
to front-line duties against the Malayan
terrorists fills-in the details of an earlier
statement.
The battalion will be based on the old
British naval port of Penang, off the west
coast, almost opposite Kota Bahru, the
scene of the earliest Japanese appearances
in World War 11. The R.A.N. is to make
its contribution by leaving the destroyers
Arunta and Warramunga in Asian
waters when the current manoeuvres
around the area end, and air-units will be
augmented as soon as the preliminary
work has been done for them by the air-
construction squadron of the R.A.A.F.,
which is already in Malaya.
The objective of the battalion in
Malaya will not be aggression; neither
will it be there to impose external ruie
on the Malayans or interfere with free-
dom of government as the Communists
—and, of course. Dr. Evatt, who follows
the Communist-line so closely—are ready
to assert.
As Mr. Menzies said in his explana-
tion, the terrorists are “doing their best
to destroy the economic life of the
Malayan community” and to frustrate, if
possible, the granting of economic
independence on the Malayan Peninsula,
a measure which has been delayed for
years by their operations. They operate
by murder, pillage and terrorism in
general as the agents of Russia and
China, well supplied by those two
countries for the purpose of helping to
bring Malaya (and pave the way for
bringing Burma, and presently also
Indonesia) behind the Iron Curtain.
Malaya is strategically most important
to the Western nations for the defence
of Eastern Asia and the Pacific, Australia
included. And the Communists covet
it particularly because it is the world’s
primary producer of raw rubber.
When the Japanese attacked Malaya,
screams of execration rose from Austra-
lian “Labor” men (who even up till 1945
were against sending troops other than
volunteers to fight for the area) because
the British, on the other side of the
world, had failed to provide defence for
this area. The British would have
defended it —and Australia should have
helped to defend it to a greater extent
in its own interests —if men and resources
had been available.
All nations, viewing the cost in lives
and material of this neglect in 1941,
forced on them though it was, deter-
mined that the same mistake should never
happen again. And the sending of Aus-
tralian troops there at the present time
as part of a strategic reserve provided by
the United Kingdom, this country and
Maoriland is just as much a feature of
Australian defence as the provision of
airfields at Townsville and Darwin.
It will give Australia a trained cadre
of troops familiar with Malayan condi-
tions and terrain if it is ever called on
to help fend-off Communist invasion of
a region from which Australian soil in
the next war can be attacked direct by
air, and it will help to serve as a “hands-
off” warning to the Chinese and others
that the West means business in the
defence of South-East Asia.
Dr. Evatt calls the Government
“swashbuckling completely ignoring
the fervent desire of the people of Aus-
tralia to improve relations with Asian
people.” He talks of “the false and
fatuous cry of world war,” and he
apparently agrees with Moscow when he
says the people of Malaya do not want
Australian troops there and in believing
that the bandits are the people of
Malaya. Indeed, he appears to believe
that the whole matter can be settled by a
“fact-finding and fairminded delegation”
instead of by what he calls “the blast
of war.” This is propagandist nonsense.
If it were carried to its natural conclusion
the whole of the West would disarm and
trust its fate to the spirit of conciliation.
That spirit of conciliation is manifested
on the side to which the Communist
guerrillas belong—how careful Dr. Evatt
is not to use the word “Communist” in
respect of them! —by the conscripting
every year of about five million men for
two years’ service in the Soviet Union
and Chinese armies, and continual
pressure at every point in the Western
world that they can reach to weaken
Western defences.
Saturday Shopping
At the time of the N. S. Wales Liquor
Commission much publicity was given
to the fact that Broken Hill made its own
rules about closing-time for hotels and
that the Sydney Government turned a
blind eye to the flagrant disregard for its
laws. Another N. S. Wales mining town,
Lithgow, has also been making its own
rules for trading-hours—and has been
getting away with it for eight years.
Last year the Cahill Government was
reported to be considering a proposal for
handing-over control of shopping-hours
to the municipal authorities, who could
fix hours of business to suit local condi-
tions instead of having a State-wide time-
table as at present. There was much
merit in the idea, but Mr. O’Dea, of the
Shop Assistants’ Union, didn’t like it a
scrap. And in New South Wales when
M[r. O’Dea of the Shop Assistants’ Union
doesn’t like something connected with
shopping-hours, then that something soon
becomes nothing.
But in Lithgow the trading-hours for
shops are not fixed by the municipal
council —nor by a miners’ industrial
council, as in the case of Broken Hill
pubs. For eight years they have been
dictated by Mr. O’Dea’s Shop Assistants’
Union, an organisation which holds firmly
to the belief that shops were created for
shop-assistants and that any trading that
is done therein is purely incidental to
their main function of providing jobs for
shop-assistants.
This belief explains why Lithgow
shops have been closed on Satur-
day for eight years. A short time ago
some shopkeepers decided to defy the
ban ; they subscribed to the quaint belief
that if the law of the land says shops
should be open on Saturday morning
and if customers wish to shop on Satur-
day morning, then shops should be open
on Saturday morning. When the union
protested against this outrageous attack
on its liberty to break the rules Mr. Jus-
tice De Baun of the Industrial Court was
appointed to investigate the dispute. He
ruled that there was a genuine demand
for Saturday trading, and that he would
not be justified in preventing it.
The union’s response was to instruct
its members to ignore any orders to work
on Saturday mornings. When at the
instance of union snoopers a suburban
shopkeeper is fined for after-hours trading
Mr. O’Dea, whose union collects half the
fine, and the N. S. Wales “Labor” Gov-
ernment, of which Mr. O’Dea is an
esteemed pillar in the Legislative Council,
justify the action on the grounds that the
shopkeeper is breaking the law. But
apparently the law is meant to work only
one way.
Bargaining and Neutrality
The manoeuvres for the Big Four talks at
Geneva which are to open, if arrange-
ments stand, about July 18, have begun
according to Cocker —as understood in
the U.S.S.R.
The Russians have been throwing out
blows left and right contemporaneously
with the usual suave assurances of peace-
ful intention couched in Leninist-Marxist
double-talk which does not mean what it
says.
The Communists have been fomenting
industrial unrest in the United Kingdom
and, more particularly, Malaya, where the
first Federal elections are due to be held
on July 27. In the Japanese zone the
Russians are doing their best to cajole
the Japanese, thousands of whose
nationals they hold as prisoners-of-war,
into a state of neutrality. In Europe they
are directing their aims towards the same
end with West Germany, while at the
identical time introducing conscription in
East Germany.
The Moscow diplomatic press, and
especially Khrushchev’s organ-, “Pravda,”
is emphasising that Russia will not
accept “any approach at the Geneva con-
ference from the notorious position of
strength.” And it has been foreshadowed
that it will press for the top-level talks be-
tween the heads-of-States to be extended
from the week contemplated by the
Western Allies to three weeks. Appar-
ently it envisages a nice, long, tortuous
wrangle which will enable it to develop
world propaganda on neutrality and unity
of Germany and the neutralising of
Japan, together with a good “line” which
will further woo Nehru and detach him
from the West.
Russia, of course, will approach all
discussion from the “line of strength”’—
it has no other approach, and its warn-
ings are merely part of its normal method
of finding an excuse to do this. Its plan
to extend the conference seems to be
merely a trick to enable it to say that
when President Eisenhower goes home
after ten days—a fortnight seems to be
the longest period he can stay in Europe
at this juncture—he has deserted because
his heart does not hold the same senti-
ments as tried peacelovers like the con-
querors of Finland and Poland and
Czechoslovakia, the overlords of the
ravaged Baltic States and East Germany.
So far the Western response has been
unusually firm. President Eisenhower
and Dr. Adenauer went out of their
way to make it plain over the weekend in
a joint statement that there would be no
neutralising of Germany. They said that
the concept of neutrality was in no way
applicable to Germany, and that only
through collective security with the West
could Germany assure its independence.
Dr. Adenauer has made it clear that
he is ready for Moscow to negotiate the
reopening of diplomatic and trade
relationships, but on the basis of Russia’s
recognition of West Germany’s full
nationhood. At present, nothing holds
up the unification of Germany or the
completion of peace in the Far East but
Russian obstruction and Communist
infiltration. And in Tokyo the Japanese
response to Russian overtures is for-
tunately about as trusting as that of
Western Germany.
Historic Link
“Mugga Way”: Until H.M.A.S. Sydney
sank the German cruiser Emden in
November, 1914, few Australians had
ever heard of the Cocos or Keeling
Islands. Today, with a population almost
double that of 40-odd years ago, not too
many realise that the islands are about
to become a part of Australian territory,
subject to our laws and with 300 of the
population becoming eligible to become
Australians if they wish.
Long and involved discussions and
some complicated legislation have been
needed to make this an accomplished
fact. Even today an Order-in-Council
is necessary in Britain before
our administration becomes effective,
although we have been managing the
air-strip for quite a few years. Australia
has given an assurance that the rights of
the Clunies Ross family, granted by
Queen Victoria nearly 70 years ago, will
not be prejudiced in the transfer of
sovereignty to Australia, and that the
Malay institutions, customs and usages
which govern the daily life of the
islanders will be continued.
These are'important factors, of course,
but from the Australian point of view
the transfer has other aspects of almost
overriding importance. The Minister for
Territories, Paul Hasluck, suggested to
the House of Reps, the other day that its
members were well aware of the strategic
importance of the islands to Australia,
and of the heavy commitment which Aus-
tralia had assumed in the reconstruction
and operation of the airfield on the
islands. He did not add, as he might
have done, that the airfield would be
vital if the present air-route via Djakarta
and Singapore ever became impracticable
for civil or military aircraft, and doubly
important if the Indian Ocean and the
Suez Canal shipping - routes were
threatened.
It could happen that the Cocos Islands
may become one of our major links with
the rest of the world. It will be an excel-
lent thing for this once-remote group to
be part of the outskirts of this country,
its defence and welfare our responsibility
and its facilities part of our protection.
Role in Malaya
Australian troops who will go to
Malaya are to be used in the long-fought
battle against the Communist terrorists —
as their brothers in the R.A.A.F. have
been used for some years without pro-
tests either in Malaya or from the
headline-seeking Evatt-wing of “Labor.”
From the point of view of morale alone
Federal Cabinet’s decision could be well
justified. Australians could hardly be
expected to accept or enjoy the tasks of
“garrison” troops while their British
comrades and their own brothers in the
Air Force were on active duty. They
will go to the Malayan jungles thoroughly
trained for those unpleasant conditions,
and ready to take their share in the sac-
rifices and discomforts of a job which is
in effect a warm salient of the cold war.
It is, of course, the manning of an out-
post against the Communism which
threatens Malaya as it menaces the other
nations of South-East Asia and Australia
itself. Cabinet knows and accepts the
responsibilities involved, and presumably
the troops themselves will be fully
apprised of their task and of its signifi-
cance for this country. The Government
in Canberra, however, has a major job
of public relations ahead of it in making
sure that the role of our troops is properly
understood in Asia as well as in Aus-
tralia, and that the statements of those
“Labor” men advocating the Communist
line adopted at the A.L.P. conference in
Hobart are not accepted anywhere as
representing in an appreciable degree
the opinions of Australians.
In the face of chatter at Bandoeng
from Dr. John Burton and other busy-
bodies Canberra has been too silent,
apparently believing that a couple of
Government pronouncements from the
capital could be heard without diffi-
culty in an area ranging from
Djakarta and Saigon to Bangkok
and New Delhi. Adequate and
clear repetition of the Australian
motives (“We are anxious to see self-
government established in Malaya.... and
ready to assist the Malayan peoples to
resist Communist bandits”) is tlje only
way of countering the present vigorous
and well-financed Communist propa-
ganda campaign throughout the area.
Our troops, soon to be fighting on this
front, must have all the resources of
modern propaganda to help them; This
will ease their job, and shorten its dura-
tion. It should be the first line of our
defence and attack in the present
circumstances.
Paper Warfare
“In the ACT”: In the battle for men’s
minds the roneoed “handout” is a
familiar and sometimes despised weapon.
Vast quantities of these documents reach
editorial and other offices, many of them
to be discarded, unread or even un-
opened. Few people, it seems, take the
time or trouble to read matters not
directly connected with their own affairs,
but those conscientious or interested
enough to wade through the flood will
be rewarded at times with gems of
information often unavailable from other
sources.
Examples have been furnished in the
last week or two in radioed bulletins
prepared by Indian and United States
information-offices, each dealing with
phases of the Russian “peace offensive”
(described by a U.S. Senator as “a buying
of time by the dangling of olive-branches
in all directions before the Western
world”).
The Indian bulletin was almost lyrical
in describing Nehru’s reception in
Moscow. At the airport he was received
(<Continued on next page )


by the Soviet Prime Minister, Marshal
Bulganin, who introduced him to
Khrushchev, Molotov and Malenkov.
All 40 Ministers of the Soviet Govern-
ment, the entire diplomatic-corps and
about 2000 representatives of official and
cultural organisations were present, as
well as an assortment of marshals and
others. Then there was a pretty touch.
“After the first introductions, 18 small
children dressed in white-and-red ran up
to Mr. Nehru with bouquets of flowers,
and then there was a rain of flowers from
the welcoming people. Mr. Nehru was
almost submerged in flowers, and
Marshal Bulganin had to go to his
rescue and hand over the bouquets to
officials at the airport.” In fact, it was
roses, roses all the way, because on the
drive to the city the large crowds
“cheered, clapped their hands, and threw
flowers into the open car.”
There are some pages of this sort of
thing interspersed with reports of
speeches and newspaper comments.
“Pravda” discovered that the visit would
benefit the cause of universal peace and
ease world tension, and expressed
Russian appreciation of the pronounce-
ments of Indian representatives at inter-
national conferences “on questions of
achieving peace in Asia and throughout
the world.” “Izvestia” hoped that
“friendship and co-operation between the
Soviet and India would develop and
grow stronger.”
All this may please and flatter the
Indians. But a corrective dose of
commonsense was furnished in the U.S.
comments on Adenauer’s visit to Moscow,
which was under discussion at the same
time. These were mostly newspaper-
editorials, which agreed that the invita-
tion was a logical step in the Soviet
manoeuvring to divide and weaken the
Western alliance. Confidence was
expressed in the steadfastness of
Adenauer, but it was admitted that the
Russian move presented problems to the
West. The New York “Herald Tribune,”
for example, said the Russians still held
German territory and prisoners, “and
no regime in the world today is more
adept than theirs at international black-
mail.” Other papers stressed that the
“change” in Russian tactics was
designed less to ease tension than to
achieve new advantages for Russia —a
point which any starry-eyed Indian
might well note for consideration. There
were suggestions that a counter-move
should be a U.S. invitation to leaders of
the “free” Soviet satellites to discuss
trade-benefits like those Russia would
offer Germany, and that there should be
pressure on the Russian leaders for
immediate agreement on free elections in
East Germany.
One of the most significant factors in
the world today is the stepping-up of
propaganda-services over vast areas.
Australia itself is shaping-up for a cam-
paign of considerable extent in South-
East Asia. The “radio-and-paper war”
all over the world is moving into a phase
of unprecedented intensity.
PPLITICAL POINTS
Bolte won’t be very popular with his
fellow-Premiers. He has just given an
assurance that while his Government is in
office no move will be made to increase
Parliamentary salaries.
• •
After the failure of the brief rebellion
in Buenos Aires, in which his palace was
bombed and he narrowly escaped death,
Argentine President Peron said there was
no religious problem in his country —his
Government had just been excommuni-
cated by the Vatican—and that the anti-
Catholic outrages were the work of Com-
munists. With the country under martial
law and the Army Minister in apparent
control, Peron is expressing his belief in
free elections. “Let everyone cast his
vote and then we shall be bound by the
people’s decision.”
• •
Cal well still fancies himself as Trea-
surer in “Labor’s” Shadow Cabinet, but
in the light of recent events his shadow
must be growing less.
• •
If all the new members of the Victorian
Assembly got together they would be
able to form a Government of their own.
There are 34 of ’em. Naturally, more
than half of the newcomers are L.C.P.
men, as that party trebled its represen-
tation, but, through the split in the
“Labor” party, Cain’s following, although
reduced from its original 37 to 20, also
includes a large new-boy element: more
than half took the oath for the first time
on Wednesday.
• •
Test-cricketer Sam Loxton, who won
Prahran for the L.C.P. by 14 votes, is the
“baby” of the House (34); Opposition-
leader John Cain is the “father” —he has
represented Northcote since 1917.
• •
When Sydney barbers were given a
rise .of £1 3s. one master-hairdresser cal-
culated that this would probably mean an
extra sixpence on the price of a haircut.
On the basis of a 40-hour week that means
that his blokes take 52 minutes to clip a
crop. He’d better either check his figures
or check his barbers.
• •
No Liberal comment on Evatt’s
personal attack on the Prime Minister
and Speaker could be much more out-
spoken than that of Morgan, M.H.R.,
one of his own party:
I deprecate attacks being made on Mr.
Menzies and Mr. Cameron by Dr. Evatt
The Prime Minister acted magnificently
and with dignity and restraint What he
said about [the two men] was not as strong
as some Labor members expressed privately
but refrained from expressing publicly—
no doubt because they have been confused
and bewildered by Dr. Evatt’s strange atti-
tude.... The Speaker may have appeared
somewhat stem, but not more than he is
when dealing with Parliamentarians them-
selves for breaches of discipline.
Expressing regret for his leader’s “attack
on the all-party committee’s decision,”
Morgan said:
Dr. Evatt’s claim that the decision was
wrong in each case makes one wonder what
might have been my fate if he had been in
charge of the proceedings.
That last thought is possibly the key
to the whole story. When the Doc. is
not in charge of proceedings he feels
compelled to take charge.
• •
The law fell heavily on five New Aus-
tralians in Geelong (Vic.) when they
were convicted of shooting wattle-birds,
white-winged choughs, a fantail cuckoo
and two rosellas in a forestry reserve.
They said they wanted to eat the birds.
The fines were £5 each, plus costs. There
are some old Australian habits which it
is unwise for New Australians to adopt.
• •
Latham Withall, director of the Asso-
ciated Chambers of Manufactures of Aus-
tralia, wants Federal tax-cuts, abolition
of pay-roll tax and a re-equipment tax-
allowance. He also seeks “an export-
guarantee scheme under which the
Federal Government would underwrite
Australian (manufactured) exports.” It’s
called wanting it both ways.
Municipal councils in all the capitals—
and in many other towns and cities as
well —have complained at the increasing
amount of rate-free property held by
Federal and State Governments. The
matter was brought up again last week
in the Sydney City Council when it was
claimed that exempted property was
depriving the city of £855,000 a year.
Alderman Tate proposed that the State
Government be asked to do something
about it, but his motion was defeated
by the “Labor” majority, Alderman
O’Dea commenting that although he
thought Government bodies should pay,
he couldn’t see them ever doing it.
We are only a puppet Government, set
up by the State to handle civic affairs, and
the State could wipe us out tomorrow if
it wanted to.
That, coming from a “Labor” aider-
man, who is also an M.L.C. and has had
a considerable say in the formulation of
“Labor” policy in N. S. Wales, is a
blatant admission of “Labor’s” attitude
towards the City Council. “Labor” has
denied that the purpose of its “amalgama-
tion” policy was to secure control of the
City Council and that its change in the
system of voting was to secure seats for
its own creatures. But now O’Dea has
admitted that the Council is merely a
puppet of the State “Labor” party. . Who
pulls the strings?
SHERLOCK CAHILL
"Extraordinary! Can’t trace that elementary smell at all!”
Nine more London trammies arrived
in Melbourne the other day under the
Tramway Board’s assisted-immigrant
scheme for acquiring recruits for its
mobile sardine-tins. All expressed great
keenness about coming to Australia, but
no keenness whatever for working on
Melbourne trams. As they are under no
compulsion they will probably take other
jobs, like a lot of their predecessors.
They’re luckier than the residents of many
Melbourne suburbs, who have to use the
trams.
• •
Fitzpatrick must be feeling a trifle
Browned-off by now.
• •
A small misprint which made Navy
Minister Francis say that the visit of Aus-
tralian and N.Z. warships to Bangkok
and Manila would cement further the
cordial “relationaship” between the
peoples of Thailand and the Philippines
and the peoples of the British Common-
wealth could have been intentional.
Destroyers Tobruk, Arunta and Warra-
munga and N.Z. frigate Kaniere are
spending three days at Bangkok this week
and destroyer Anzac, frigate Quadrant,
and two N.Z. ships are visiting Manila.
• •
“Ceg”: With the change in Govern-
ment in Victoria murderers will once
again have to face the possibility of the
death-penalty being enforced, instead of
being commuted to life-imprisonment.
Intending killers may now find it prudent
to request their victims to step across the
Murray into a “Labor” State before
doing the deed.
• •
Premier Gair (Queensland) wants a
referendum on the States’ right to tax
inter-State road-transport, but Premier
Bolte (Vic.) won’t have it. Premier
Cahill (N.S.W.) says his Transport
Department’s legal advisers are still
“examining” the High Court judgment
which led to all this. Premier Playford
(S. Aust.) believes there must be some way
for a State to make inter-State hauliers
pay for road-upkeep. So there is—if the
States will accept the road-hauliers’ offer
to confer with the idea of working out a
scheme. But so long as the States con-
tinue to regard road-transport as some-
thing which ought not be allowed because
it takes business from their railways, no-
body will get anywhere.
• •
The bill which will enable the Strijdom
Government to stack the South African
Senate passed through the Senate last
week. It provides for the appointment
of another 41 Senators, bringing the total
to 89. This should be more than enough
to bulldoze Strijdom’s racial legislation
through Parliament.
• •
Nearly ten years after the Pacific war,
which it entered just in time to stake a
claim for spoils and to accept the
surrender of Japanese troops in Man-
churia, Russia is still holding thousands
of Jap prisoners and refuses even to
reveal their whereabouts. Interior
Minister Kent Hughes, himself a prisoner
of the Japs for years, has made this
comment:
Surely it is time the world told Russia
and Red China that it refuses to have any
dealings whatsoever with nations who are
so barbarous as to refuse to release
prisoners ten years after the war has ended.
Peace treaty or no peace treaty, it is time
a few of their “co-existence” supporters
told the Reds that barbarism is not a basis
for any approach to civilised discussion.
Perhaps some of those “Peace” organisa-
tions might care to send a telegram to
Moscow.
• •
Calwell has described the Victorian
Upper House as a “legislative abattoirs.”
But wasn’t it the Lower House election
that turned out to be a slaughter-house
for his party?
• •
“Kelms”: In 1904 the Westralian
Parliament sentenced John Drayton,
editor of the “Kalgoorlie Sun,” to a £5O
fine or imprisonment until the end of the
session. He had charged the Minister
for Mines, H. Gregory, with malpractices
in connection with the Empress of Cool-
gardie mine, and it seems he went too
far even for those days of exuberant
journalism in writing “Harry Gregory
robbed the prospector to fatten the
capitalist.” Drayton said he couldn’t pay
the fine, and he languished in jail for
three weeks before Parliament decided
that possibly it had overstepped the mark,
and sought to release the culprit. A
motion for the rescission of the resolution
by which he was punished was rejected
on the ground that it would give Drayton
the chance to sue for wrongful imprison-
ment. Instead, he was granted a free
pardon.
• •
The revolt against President Peron of
Argentina has failed. The Doc. is still
in the saddle, too.
• •
J. Riordan, secretary of the Clerks’
Union, told the N. S. Wales Industrial
Court last week that three members of
the union had reported at a meeting that
Mr. Justice Taylor, president of the court,
had told them, in connection with a strike
at the Australian General Electric works,
that their only hope of getting anything
was to remain on strike. His Honor sub-
sequently denied having said anything of
the .sort, and D. A. Chuter, who was
alleged to have made the statement, said
that Riordan was not present at the
meeting and that what the judge had
really said was that he did not think the
Clerks’ Union would carry the dispute
far enough to invoke deregistration. “In
fact, the Clerks’ Union is a mild-mannered
body.”
• •
A.C.T.U. secretary Broadby, in Geneva
on an 1.L.0. jaunt, told the conference
that “Australians are becoming increas-
ingly critical of their arbitration system.”
He went on to say the arbitration court,
“instead of arresting industrial discontent,
had aggravated it.” What Broadby meant
is that he and Evatt and Ward and others
of like mind want one-way arbitration
and that way their way.
• •
Name of Australia’s delegate to the
International Whaling Commission meet-
ing, to be held in Moscow next month,
hasn’t been announced, but it’s a safe bet
that he’ll be nicknamed Jonah. Whoever
he is, he’s to be accompanied by R.
Moore, of the Nor’-west Whaling Co.,
Ltd., as adviser nominated by the Aus-
tralian industry. In the last season the five
Australian whaling concerns took 2040
humpback whales, valued at about £2 mil-
lion. Most of the whale-oil is exported;
the whale-meal makes stock-feed. The
1955 season began early this month.


Society
"AND IT’S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
A DVERTISING for boys, a Melbourne
concern which turns out lines in
great demand by all classes of the com-
munity offers “ideal working conditions,”
including three weeks’ annual leave, staff
dining-room, superannuation, free medi-
cal service and medical benefits fund.
There’s only one notable omission—the
lads will not be entitled to obtain the
concern’s products at special staff dis-
count-rates. The employer is the Com-
monwealth Bank Note-Printing Branch.
—“Doynest.”
*t* <♦
“Burr Imul”: Want to start a fight?
All you have to do is to maintain that
your particular sport is “the most popular
in the world.” It depends a lot on what
you mean by “popular,” but a Swedish
foundation has worked out some statistics
based on number of participants and
amount of financial backing. Does that
eliminate your pet pastime? Don’t worry
about it too much, because you’re not on
your own. Number-one sport is model-
aeroplane-flying, which receives immense
Government support in Russia and some
fancy prizemoney in the U.S ! What it
, boils down to is that they don’t' play
1 baseball in the U.S.S.R., and the Yanks
don’t play soccer.
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.G.”: Our boss was moving to his
new house on the north side of the
Harbor. He invited his five factory-
employees to a “warming-house” party.
With visions of a gorgeous harbor-
view, and perhaps a cruise in a private
launch, we gladly accepted. In a gully,
at the end of a dirt-track road, we found
a verandaless house surrounded by gum-
trees. “No,” the boss admitted, “you
cannot see the vater —but if you listen
loud enough you vill hear the steamboat
vhistle blow.” ,
❖ ❖ ❖
“Burr Imul”: High up over the South
China Sea the door underneath the “No
Smoking” sign opened, and the hostess,
closing it after her, flashed a Qantas
smile at the passenger in the first seat.
She said something to him and he peered
out the window, acknowledging her
words with a nod. Down the aisle she
came, stopping at each seat, every
traveller craning his head, travel-weary
eyes cast through the misty perspex. The
aircraft-conductor paused by my seat and
I heard the magic words, “We are now
passing over the equator.” I nodded
and turned to look through the window
. . . What did we expect to see, anyway
—a broad black line on the water?
Musing, I reached absentmindedly for
my safety-belt and prepared for the
landing at Singapore.
❖ ❖ ❖
Henry G. Lamond: Among those of
other Australian authors, “F.A.M.” (B.
8/6/’55) mentions seeing my name in
the Red Cross Library, Repatriation
Hospital, Greenslopes, Brisbane. As soon
as ever I get my batch from the pub-
lisher in England, or America, I send
one to that hospital. I autograph it; the
inscription on the fly-leaf always reads:
“In Memory of My Son, Hal. 404212,
Sergt. Henry James Lamond, R.A.A.F.
Shot down over Sumatra 6/2/’42.” I
like to think Hal would appreciate that.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Bellfield”: Fully 40 years ago I
heard my grandfather chuckling over a
not-greatly-funny story about a shivering
chap in a third-class carriage of an Eng-
lish train who refused to move up so that
a young couple could sit together, and
gave his reason: “Let her warm ’er own
bit o’ board.” My memory dug it up
again as I clung to a stanchion in our
workman’s to Sydney. For a second I
relinquished my grip to turn the page of
my paper, then snatched at the stanchion
again, to find that a newer arrival had
collared my warmed spot and left me the
coldest piece of steel in Australia. Still,
there was a lesson on progress in the
incident: 40-odd years ago there were
third-class carriages in which the unfor-
tunate passengers sat on wooden seats;
today such class-distinctions have gone;
we happy one-classers don’t have to sit
on such things—we stand up.
»> ♦> *>
“Maitri”: I wonder how many societies
there are in Sydney which year in and
year out arrange public lectures? There
are the Shakespeare Society, the Dickens’
Club, the Speech Association, the Celtic
Society, the Music Lovers’ Club, the
Poetry Society, the Folklore Association
"They said this Was the best Way of removing paint.”
and many more which have been carry-
ing on for as long as I can remember.
Attendances at the various meetings
range from a dozen to a hundred. They
are mostly serious bodies which go out
of their way to secure well-informed lec-
turers ; nobody spends a wasted night at
any of them. It is high time tribute was
paid to the one, two or three persons in
the different societies who are responsible
for the programmes and the general run-
ning of their affairs. If folk have ever
labored for love, then these have. They
receive no financial recompense, though
they get plenty of criticism. Usually the
annual subscription is in the region of ss.
or 7s. 6d., but, with hall-rentals soaring,
most of them have to ask for a small
donation at the meetings as well. How-
ever, they still manage to throw in a
cup of tea and a biscuit at the close of
proceedings. I know a chap who is an
active worker in at least six of these
small societies —you are likely to see a
number of the same faces at the gather-
ings of any of them. They get practically
no publicity, though they do valuable
work for the community, or rather for
those in the said community who care
two straws for values.
**♦
“Crunch”: Melbourne’s equivalent of
Sydney’s “He went through like a Bondi
tram” is about to die. No more will it
be possible to “go through like a Bourke-
street bus.” Electric-trams are to replace
them by the end of the month.
❖ ❖ »>
“0.W.W.”: These young modems!
Called to pick-up a cobber, and his 21-
year-old sister answered my knock.
“He’s away mustering,” she said briefly.
Puzzled, I inquired: “Mustering what?”
“He’s mustering rams,” she declared.
Then, seeing I looked more confused than
ever, she went on: “Guess I could put it
more gently—he’s away coaxing male
friends to come to the Girls’ Club dance
tonight. . . Wonder he never called on
you first.”
❖ * ❖
“O’Johnno”: Juvenile delinquency is
causing concern in Tasmania in common
with other places, despite the good work
of various organisations, such as Police
Boys’ Club —a Police Girls’ Club has just
been started in Hobart —Scouts, Guides
and welfare-groups run by churches and
local bodies. Police lately rounded-up
a group of young girls in lassie’s north-
western town of Devonport, aged from
15 to 18, and brought them before the
court. Affecting “widgie” costume, the
girls had the symbol of a black cat tat-
tooed on the forearm, and called them-
selves “The Black Cat Gang.” Activities
over the past couple of years have con-
sisted of late-night drinking-parties, street-
and waterfront-roaming, and visiting sea-
men on ships that frequent the port.
The police smashed the gang, but the
revelation of its trends has caused a minor
sensation.
“Alick”: Publicity fast and smooth:
Answer the knock to find a telegram-boy,
cap cocked, fronting you. Treat the
telegram with customary haste. Find:
“Please ring ” and a number is given.
Race to phone, agog, to hear: “If you’re
interested in wall-to-wall carpeting ”
❖ *t* *>
“Geep”: War I military cemetery in
Dar-es-Salaam, Tanganyika, is neatly
kept. Sheltered from the sea-breezes by
tall casuarinas bordering the beach road,
and made bright by bougainvillia and
frangipani, it contains the graves of many
Springbok and British soldiers. Among
them is a solitary Australian, whose head-
stone reads: “142 Trooper J. A. Gilbert,
12th Australian Light Horse, 7 July,
1917.” I know of no Australian forces
engaged in East Africa in War I: by
what strange fate does a member of 12th
Light Horse lie there?
❖ ❖
“Doric” : “Stanford’s” par. (B. l/6/’55)
regarding the reluctance of Melbourne
people to keep to the left of the footpath
reminds me of the first day I arrived in
London. Observing that pedestrians were
all over the place like Brown’s cows, I
asked a policeman in Oxford-street which
was the correct side to walk on. “Just
take whatever side you fancy, sir,” he
said. Imagine a Sydney cop saying “sir”!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Curtail”: N. S. Wales Manx Society,
re-formed last year after going under
during the depression, will celebrate
Tynwald on July 2 at the School Hall of
St. Jude’s Church, Randwick, whose
verger, Mr. J. E. Kneale, is president of
the society (besides being chairman and
sponsor of the Vergers’ Guild of N. S.
Wales, Northern Australia and New
Guinea). Tynwald Day proper is July 5,
the Isle of Man’s national holiday and
independence-day, and centres round the
Parliament of Tynwald Hill, “the oldest
in the Empire,” whose “House of Keys”
dates back to the 10th century. “Manx-
land,” says Mr. Kneale, “has played an
important role in the last two world-wars;
in the first it was a p.-0.-w. camp, in the
second an alien camp; the Manx Regi-
ment played an important part in the
Rats of Tobruk battle; and the Manx
people are very loyal and great colonists.
The Queen is the First Lady of Man, and
her Majesty and the Duke of Edinburgh
will visit the island in August of this
year.”
HOT NEWS
I read about the Parliament, and liberties
imperilled
{Mainly by the columns of the “Sydney
Morning Herald ”);
/ read of the delinquencies of council
and of works-crew
And another interesting twist to Doctor
Evatt’s corkscrew ;
Another revolution shakes the Argen-
tinian nation
And French car-races manage audience-
par ticipation —
/ fear I skim the headlines as a speedhog
weaves through traffic
Till 1 come across an item that is mono-
paragraphic :
“Jane Russell,” says the message—and my
heart goes twinkle-twankle —
“While stepping from the bathtub slipped
and fell and sprained her ankle.”
Ah, l often have a daydream and, inspired
by noble frenzies,
Imagine I’m a special kind of Robert
Gordon Menzies,
And that something I have honestly per-
formed or said or written
Is too manifestly virtuous for “Herald”
scribes to spit on ;
I often wish that safely and without
becoming dirty
I could say exactly what I think of
“Labor” “leader” Bertie;
I've often paused to see myself, while at
my daily reading,
Freeing Argentina, or suppressing motor-
speeding —
But of all my Walter Milteries, this one
will always rankle:
I wasn’t there to catch her when Jane
Russell sprained her ankle.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


/"\NE of those Sydney newspapers that
are always urging us to open the
pubs and picture-shows on Sunday got
hold of a visiting French musician,
quoted him as a “man of the world, a
musician, and scholar,” heard him say
a Sydney Sunday (the particular one was
wintry, wet and cold) was “very sad,” and
used this in a leader urging us to copy
Europe on Sundays and “go to the theatre,
opera, movies and eat and drink in cafes.”
Sounds very nice, until one remembers
that in those parts of France where Sun-
day is an open go (mostly holiday- and
tourist-resorts), Monday is a closed day
so that those who cater for Sunday
pleasure can have a rest. Sydney rates of
pay for Sunday work would make
charges beyond the average pocket. And
we are a picnicking, surfing, sport-playing,
open-air people whose idea of Sunday is
not to spend it in cafes, operas, theatres
or movies. Even 10 p.m. bar-closing has
not changed Sydney’s home-going habits
during the week.—“ Homer.”
“Not a Word to Mum about this."
“Fred”: Seems that the marching-girls
craze (B. 15/6/’55) was set-off by a tour-
mg group of Maoriland girls with color-
ful exhibitions of precision-marching,
Visiting a Cessnock (N.S.W.) family last
year, I was taken aback by their new-
born enthusiasm. They’d won the Aus-
tralian championship ; two of the
daughters were in the team. And, as
proof that this is no feminine whim, the
family-member supplying me with all the
information was the hardened coalmine-
foreman head-of-the-house.
*:♦ * *i*
“Muskeen”: A select Melbourne club
(B. 1/6/’55) which flourished briefly
during the ’seventies was the Cave of
Adullam, situated in Flinders-lane,
behind the old “Argus” office. No
member was eligible unless he was
happily impecunious, and his chances of
election were enhanced if he was un-
favorably known to the police. Marcus
Clarke found the Yorick Club, of which
he was one of the founders, too conven-
tional, so he became a shining light in
the exclusive brotherhood of the
Adullamites.
❖ * ❖
“Zorok”: An unbeatable “cheat-proof”
electronic brain, Oxo by name, is on hss
way to Sydney from London —if he's
not already here. Oxo, unfor-
tunately, devotes his exceptional
talents only to playing naughts-
and-crosses ; and, as that’s one
game at which it’s next to im-
possible to reach a decision,
unless one player is a semi-idiot
or three-parts-under, Oxo per-
haps needs must cheat himself
if he’s to do more than just
remain “unbeatable” and
actually beat his opponents.
Anyway, surely he can be put to
more practical use. He ought to
be able to shine at that shortly-
with-us annual bugaboo income-
tax compilation—but whether
on the side of the Taxation
Department or of its victims I
dare not decide.
“Maitri”: Thirty years ago a small
company of musicians—all of us organists
or choirmasters of important Sydney
churches —used to travel to our jobs every
Sunday morning in the same carriage of
a North Shore train. One morning one
of the party—in harness to the end, he
died a couple of weeks ago—caught me
looking at the bristles on his unshaven
chin. “I never shave on Sundays till I
get to church,” he explained. “It must
be a rush to get it done before the ser-
vice,” I said. “Oh, I don’t shave then,”
he informed me. “I get on to it during
the sermon! The mirror on the organ
comes in handy!” “But can’t you be seen
by the congregation?” I asked. “Only
by a third of it,” he said. “None of them
have complained about it yet. When they
start, I’ll have to think out something
else! ”
♦ ❖ ❖
“Plumber Pete”: As a plumber, one of
the nastiest jobs I have had was to clear
a chokage in a lavatory-line in a factory
employing mostly girls. The clearing
could only be done by feel, fishing for the
blockage with a bent nail on a suitable
rod. Imagine my surprise when yard
after yard of woven material used on the
work-benches was drawn out. How any-
one got it down the line via the pan was
the first mystery; why they should put it
down was the second. I found the answer
the other day in Kylie Tennant’s The
Joyful Condemned, for she mentions it
there as a more-or-less usual female form
of spite used by delinquent girls in refor-
matories, jails, etc. So after all these
years I can piece the story together. Pro-
bably some loafing girl had been given
notice and as a parting form of spite
had gone to the trouble (for trouble it
must have been) to force this great length
of material down the sewer-line. It pro-
bably never worried the boss a bit—but
it gave me quite a little trouble. I hope
she is satisfied.
♦> K* ❖
“Renault”: I’ve seen stranger things
than those noted by “Ecilat” (B. 8/6/’55)
when driving behind lady-drivers of
“Even if I am a swell dish, don't try to bolt your food!"
motor-cars. The latest was a long arm
—stretched to its fullest extent —thrust
out of the car-window by the driver on a
portion of the road where there was no
right-hand turn for miles. Out of curi-
osity, I speeded to overtake this lady.
When I caught-up and she slowed-down,
I said, “Madam, would you mind telling
me as a great favor why you put your
right arm out of the window a couple of
miles back?” Most graciously she replied,
“Oh, I was only pointing out to my
companion [another lady] the place where
I had my last accident.”
❖ ❖
“An Chuidh”: Perhaps a coincidence,
but I read of a new edition of Bums on
the Red Page (B. 25/5/’55) on the same
day as I read a quotation from Burns in
a booklet published by the Indian Gov-
ernment. They quoted Burns as saying
“the best-laid plans of mice and men
do go off awry.”
*2* $►
“Abie”: “O’Johnno” (B. 8/6/’55)
states that the word “brick” seems “to
require a definition relating to the date
pf its use.” How true! Yet he does not
seem to know what a “brick” signifies
nowadays—none other than the shy,
old-fashioned “tenner,” now no longer a
rarity. The name comes, of course, from
the reddish complexion of the £ 10-note.
❖ *** ***
“Muskeen”: About this translation of
foreign names (B. 8/6/’55). During
World War II I went to a picnic in the
Herschell Woods with some citizens from
Tel Aviv. Among them in a pin-stripe
grey flannel suit was a blonde looker, who
informed me softly and coyly that her
name was Morning Star. Well, I reckoned
I was doing fine, until a brunette turned
up, also in a pin-stripe suit. His name
was Morning Star, too, only he called it
Morgenstern, and the blonde number was
his spouse!
*** *2*
“Toreknay”: Machine-guns spat, an
explosion boomed, rifle-barrels ran hot
and a plane nose-dived into the ground.
What a movie! But—what’s this? A
little later, the same burst of machine-
guns and rifles sounds, the same explosion
is heard and another plane mysteriously
dives into the same spot. A while later
and the whole scene is again re-enacted.
I believe there is a Hollywood ban on
stuttering characters ; but evidently this
does not apply to backgrounds.
❖ ❖ *
“J.K.D.”: If I’d realised the furious
storm that the innocent act of pressing
the lift-button was about to unleash I’d
have willingly walked up five flights of
steps of a Brisbane public building. The
two lifts dead-heated to the ground-floor
in response to my summons, and I stepped
into the nearest one. I’d barely done so
when there was an irate roar from the
other lift, “I was down first! What the
hell are y’ taking my passengers for?”
I listened with interest as my driver
replied, “I didn’t know y’ were cornin’
down. Anyway, he got into my lift; so
go to blazes! ” A verbal battle-royal fol-
lowed, in which I discovered much of
interest about the ancestry of both drivers.
Then my driver threw in the towel, turn-
ing to me with the half-hearted apology,
“Sorry, mate, I’m afraid you’ll have to
take the other lift. I can’t do anything
about it.” I did so, and journeyed to the
fifth floor serenaded by the dark mutter -
ings of the victorious driver about the
shortcomings of rival lift-drivers and
woolly-headed passengers who couldn’t
give a man a fair go.
* * ❖
“Harbel”: The mother who would cuff
her offspring for cutting-in on a mag-
session will cheerfully try to outshout a
radio blaring its head off about two paces
away. By some strange paradox the
“nervy” women who “just can’t stand
noise” always have their radios tuned-in
at about a 300yds. range; and the first
thing their boilermaker husbands do on
entering the house is turn the volume
down. Still, there are manly exceptions.
The chap who was keeping me waiting
outside the phone-box, for instance. He
bawled into the mouthpiece: “Speak up
I can’t hear you.” Not really surprising
—his car was parked at the kerb less than
a yard away, and the radio was on at
full blast.
& ❖ *
“Sackville”: The New Australian
mother in one of Sydney’s universal
stores was having trouble making the
assistant understand her requirements—
or was it the requirements of the small
child to whom she kept pointing? Things
had reached the despairing shrug stage,
on both sides of the counter, when a
foreign-looking young man spoke up
haltingly: “For the boy—toilet.” Com-
prehension came to the assistant’s face.
Swift pointings and hand-bendings to
denote corners to be turned were being
rapidly executed when the interpreter
tried again. This time it took longer, but
final understanding was achieved. The
lady left the shop with a smile of satis-
faction on her face and a little pink
plastic object wrapped in brown paper
under her arm.
❖ *
“Tos”: There’s an unwritten law
among the underworld of the U.S.: Lay-
off actors. The reason is not clear. Per-
haps they find in the stage-lives and
widely-publicised off-stage lives of actors
a substitute for the normal social inter-
course their shady doings deny them, and
don’t like to bite the hams that feed them.
Also, few big-money-making stars carry
much cash. Several years ago Los
Angeles papers reported the stick-up of
a well-known film-producer, and his loss
of a gold watch, silver money-clip and
38 dollars (£AI7) in cash. Next day all
executives in that studio received a
memorandum instructing them always to
carry 100 dollars (£A44) in cash, because,
when held-up, “we don’t want to appear
cheap or broke; it’s embarrassing.”
HANDY HINTS
“A Marriage-guidance Council pamphlet
contains advice on ‘How to behave
parted from your wife for the first time.’ ”
You are parted; and, oh, what a break!
All your comforts you nobly forsake.
Does joy animate you ?
Despair agitate you?
Some needed advice you should take.
For the man who of spouse is bereft
(.Pro tern.) finds his life has been cleft.
Conditions quite snary
Await the unwary —
Don’t think you’re all right ’cause you’re
left.
Daily bed-making task you may shed
By punching a hip-hole instead.
All raiment discarded
May be disregarded —
Just kick it all under the bed.
Should the frying-pan fall, and it floods
Hot fat while you’re cooking chipped
spuds,
Spread a rug — that’s dead easy ;
Otherwise, being greasy,
The lino, might bring you some thuds.
One wash-up (the day she returns)
Will suffice. And, if every pot burns,
Boiling eggs in the copper
Is handy—and proper.
That’s something each Benedict learns.
In a hurry, you wish to bestow
On the shoes that you’re wearing a glow:
To your hand is the curtain,
But, please, do make certain
You use the inside —it wont show.
Good memory you must cultivate,
Otherwise you might mess up the date;
What if party you’re throwing
Were just getting going
And she were to walk in the gate!
Of jollos leave never a trace.
The piano’s a bad hiding-place
For empties. Remember,
One cigarette-ember
That scorches, and you’re in disgrace !
N,s * w *
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
The British Home Fleet (or its ances-
tor) looked after the Spanish Armada: its
units were at Jutland and the Dogger
Bank; others got the Scharnhorst,
hounded Bismarck, and were waiting with
savage eagerness for Adolf’s Channel-trip
to start. For centuries the Fleet has been
based on the Island, training in peace,
held in readiness from Scapa to Ports-
mouth in war, the home guard while
other Fleets range from the Atlantic to
the China Station. Now it has a new
Commander-in-Chief —V ice-Admiral Sir
John Eccles: “Long John,” well over 6ft.
from truck to keelson, judo expert to
boot. He was in our waters in War 11,
carrier Indomitable, in command, and
for two years from 1949 was Flag Officer
Commanding the Australian Fleet.
0 0
From New Zealand to Ceylon to
Egypt—-A. R. Cutler, High Commissioner
in the two first-named, Australian Minis-
ter to the other. He was over Egypt-way
earlier—before he got into the struggles
round Merjayoun and Damour Wadi in
Syria, emerging therefrom as the only
artilleryman in A.I.F. history to win the
Victoria Cross. But at Damour, leading
a line along an exposed position, he
caught an explosive bullet in the knee,
and in 1941 came home, minus one leg.
He reaches upwards about 6ift., goes
15st.
0 0
One of the best (and most favorably)
known phizzes seen about Adelaide’s
police-courts belongs to “Brig”—the
Salvation Army’s Brigadier Cecil Linsell.
His job there —help for the salvageable,
shelter and guidance for those fresh from
durance vile, and a brusque, cheery word
for all and sundry. A successful pleader
of many lost causes, Brig is always out to
help, and the sight of him raises many
a hopeful grin behind bars. From his
quizzical features a nose of truly noble
proportions rises to about the elevation
of Ayers Rock: a grey poll waves high
SALVAGING SALVO
over a weatherbeaten forehead like a flag
of victory. Moving mostly where O.
Henry would say the outlook had ultra-
marine trimmings, Brig’s humor is quick
and unquenchable. Born in Essex, he’s
spent 50 of his 63 years in Australia, and
40 in the Salvos, engaged mainly in social
work. Boys’-welfare has always been
close to his heart. War II saw him among
the troops in n.-w. Australia. Having
concentrated on police-court work for the
past 10 years, he plans to call it a day in
a year’s time.
• •
Three globe-trotting university men —
Hans Schulz and Manfred Huber, from
Germany, and Peter Somerville Large, a
Dublin arts graduate—chummed-up on
their recent voyage from Singapore to
Fremantle. The two Germans, both
qualified textile-engineers, left home a
year ago with £9 between them, and hitch-
hiked and worked their way through 15
European and Asian countries till they
reached Singapore, where they had to wait
for three months till they raked up
enough cash for the passage to Fremantle.
Jobs on the way included work on silos in
Turkey, at the International Fair in
Damascus, and in Indian textile-factories.
Most exciting experience was in Burma,
when their train was attacked by Com-
munist rebels. Their new-found Irish
friend, Large, went to teach English at the
military college in Afghanistan three
years ago. He has spent the past 12
months walking through South-East Asia,
two months of the time in a Tibetan
Buddhist monastery. The Germans intend
to go on, through Australia, New Zealand,
South America and the U.S. on their
way home.
WALTER GILBERT, retiring presi-
dent of Brisbane Rotary. Tied-up with
timber, from managership of the Queens-
land Timber Stabilisation Board and
secretaryship of the Building Industry
Credit Bureau, to councillor ship of the
Save the Trees Campaign. Accountant
as well, and hard-working councillor for
the Flying Doctor Service.
“Weff”: This year’s J. K. Moir
Natural History Medallion goes to 83-
year-old Rev. H. M. R. Rupp, of Wil-
loughby, Sydney. The medallion is
awarded annually for the best service done
to increase popular or scientific know-
ledge of Australian flora or fauna. Son
of the Rev. C. L. H. Rupp (the parson at
Koroit, Victoria, when Henry Handel
Richardson’s father died there, and who
was depicted in The Fortunes of Richard
Mahony), H.M.R. was bom at Port
Fairy (Vic.) and went to Melbourne Uni-
versity, where he was —in 1896 —the
Wyselaskie Natural Science Scholar. He
was rector of various Anglican parishes
in N. S. Wales, Victoria and Tasmania,
and secretary of the Australian Board of
Missions, retiring in 1939 when Rector of
Raymond Terrace (N.S.W.). Calling him-
self an orchidologist in Who’s Who in
Australia, he has written two books and
many papers on orchids.
0 0
New Zealand’s Birthday honors in-
cluded James Farrell, a name well-known
when Melbourne’s Poverty Point existed
on that corner of Swanston-street and -
Bourke-street now occupied by Foy’s.
Farrell, who gets M.8.E., is J.C.W.’s oldest
inhabitant, having started in its Mel-
bourne branch as office-boy. Now 80,
he manages for The Firm in Auckland.
0 0
From a layer of age-old stone in a
South African cave comes accepted proof
that an early apeman was the first on two
legs to use tools: report sent to New
York by Raymond Dart, who in 1924
discovered the Taungs skull, and in 1925
first described the existence of the early
apeman. The recent discovery of stone-
implements backs Dart’s early findings.
Professor of Anatomy and, till 1943,
Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at
Witwatersrand University, Johannes-
burg, Dart took his science degree at
Queensland University, his M.D. at
Sydney Uni. He began his travels as an
A.A.M.C. captain in War I (England and
France), and after the war lectured in
anatomy at University College, London.
He’s been in South Africa since 1923,
and in high executive posts on various
anthropological societies there. He was
born in Brisbane.
0 •
“C. 8.”: The 51st anniversary of Dame
Sybil Thorndike’s first stage-appearance
occurred last week in Melbourne —that
was on June 18, 1904, as Phyllis in “My
Lord from Town” at Oxford. Garnet
Carroll, of the Princess Theatre, signalised
the occasion by presenting her with a
quarter of an acre of an olive-plantation
he owns.
Passed on in Sydney, John Wilson Fell,
of a family long in the business of oil.
J.W.’s father, John Fell, after helping
develop Scotland’s shale-industry, opened-
up N.S.W. shale-deposits at Hartley Vale,
Joadja and Mt. Kembla, and at Botany
started the State’s first oil-refinery. Son
of J.W., Douglas Fell was responsible
for the construction-work at Clyde, near
Sydney, and in 1942 became Shell’s
N.S.W. manager; his last official func-
tion before retiring in 1953 was to attend
the opening by the Governor of the
£220,000 lubricating-oil plant at Clyde,
beside the huge bitumen-refining plant
opened a few years back. J.W. was 92
at the end.
• •
At 25, Leon Stubbings became director
of Red Cross appeals in Victoria. He’s
appealed to such effect that now he
becomes secretary - general of the
Australia-wide organisation, at 31.
• •
One of the few Ministers in the new
Victorian Bolte Government whose port-
folios have some visible connection with
their avocations is Gilbert Chandler,
Minister for Agriculture. The name
Chandler has been almost synonymous
with horticulture in Victoria for half a
century or more. The blue Dandenongs
and their foothills are peppered with
nurseries run by one or other of the
Chandler family, and the botanical names
of a lot of new and beautiful varieties of
plants are entitled to have Chandlerii
added to them. One Chandler is the
president of the Royal Horticultural
Society, another (Clyde, who gained his
experience in Scotland and in weekend
trips to Holland in North Sea trawlers)
lectures on the subject. Minister Gilbert,
whose nursery is at a town with the
sweet-sounding name of Boronia, sits for
the same seat in the Legislative Council
which his father, A. E. Chandler, won 30
years ago. The son was a Minister in the
Hollway-Dunstan Government and is a
councillor of Ferntree Gully Shire. His
grandfather was a foundation-member of
the council in 1899, and first started pro-
pagating plants in Ferntree Gully.
• 0
Lud Mayor Sellepk is well in the run-
ning for the post of First Citizen when
the Olympic Games come to Melbourne.
Although sundry councillors allege that
he secured their - support in his election on
the understanding that he would not
nominate for a second term of office, he
has nominated, and will be likely to get
in on the votes of non-Labor Bumbles.
If he wins a third term he will be there
to receive the Torch or whatever Lud
Mayors do on those occasions.
• •
Robust both in physique and voice,
Luigi Infantino, the 33-year-old Sicilian
tenor touring Australia for the Tait-
Martin alliance, first launched into music
when, at six, he began tootling on a flute.
This he did to such good effect that two
years later he had acquired a desk in an
orchestra’s woodwind section. After that
he tried singing solos in church, and
started learning in earnest at 19. At 21
he made his operatic debut at Parma, the
birthplace of Verdi. Since then he has
SICILIAN SINGER
steadily climbed the ladder, and today is
in the front rank of exponents of Italian
song. In his tour he has been specialising
in opera and the Neapolitan folksong (he
is herewith caught in the act). A happy,
matey touch with audiences comes natural
to him.
“Maitri”: The two things I remember
best about Dattilo-Rubbo (B. 8/6/’55)
are his intense hatred of Mussolini’s
Fascism and all it stood for, and his own
irrepressible humor. This was of a
childlike nature —never cruel, as so much
Southern European humor is—but warm,
human and really funny. He loved to
make pencil-sketches of the ridiculous
incidents bound to occur on a holiday—•
somebody falling into the river or some-
body else trying for the first time to ride
a horse. The sketches were always pre-
sented to the persons concerned, who,
needless to say, treasured them carefully.
A few years ago, when I was a patient
in a Sydney hospital, a sister told me
there was a valuable work by Rubens
on the premises. Examining, I found it to
be no Rubens, but a lifelike study of a
convivial gathering of Italian peasants by
Dattilo-Rubbo. It was clearly the work
of one who understood and appreciated
his fellow-men, and I have no doubt the
Recording Angel (with Abou ben
Adhem’s) has placed Dattilo-Rubbo’s
name high on the list of those who loved
them.
e •
After two years in Hobart and eight
in Brisbane, A.N.Z. Bank branch-
manager, R. J. M. Webber returns to
his native New Zealand, manager of an
Auckland branch. Service with the War I
R.A.F. has been the only break in 40
years of banking.
GENERAL CARIAPPA, High Commis-
sioner for India.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 73, W. Berry Holland, founder
of Armstrong-Holland Pty., Ltd., and a strong
force in the development of building-
construction and earthmoving-equipment in
Australia. In War II he took his experience
into the Allied Works Council, his job to
stimulate construction of the mechanical mon-
sters used for roads, airfields and other
defence-installations. High up in Freemasonry,
he worked hard for the Tahmoore Holiday
Home for Children.
In Hobart, at 80, William Pott, who was in
with Robert Blatchford, Mary and Sydney
Webb, Philip Snowden and Jack Clynes in the
early days of English Socialism. As well as
helping with the early development of the
Labor party in England and leading one of the
first successful strikes in Lancashire on behalf
of boys working in cotton-mills, he helped the
Pankhursts organise the suffragette movement,
straightened-out the tangled lines of the fried-
fish industry (which is what it amounts to in
the Old Dart), and became managing-director
of the Northern Counties Federation of Fish
Friers. He migrated to Tasmania from Cheshire
30 years ago and was made a life-member of the
A.L.P. in recognition of his work.
In Melbourne, at 88, E. H. Hunter, retired
master-pearler, once known as the “Pearl King
of Broome.” Starting in a srpall way with a
mate, he eventually owned and operated a fleet
of luggers and two schooners, and made a
fortune from pearls. As well, he was an all-
round athlete and a racehorse-owner, and had
business interests in most Australian States. In
his time at Broome he was first president of
the local-governing body there.
At Newbury, Berkshire (Eng.), at 71, J. S. M.
Ritchie, one of the few New Zealanders to
reach flag-rank in the Royal Navy. He was at
Jutland, was gunnery-officer of Jellicoe’s flag-
ship, Iron Duke, and Under Sir Roger Keyes
helped counter the U-boat menace. Retired in
1935, rear-admiral, he got back into uniform
for War 11, and for the most savage years of
U-boat warfare was in charge of the convoy-
port of Liverpool.
In Argentina, at 72, William Asher Reece,
a native of Christchurch (N.Z.), for years head
of the General Electric Co. and closely finked
with the electrification of the sugar-refining
works in the Argentine. Before shifting to
South America he represented General Electric
during the construction of the Panama Canal.
He had been a friend of Edison.
At Lake Grace (W.A.), at 94, Henry Edward
Hills, retired farmer who saw active service in
the Sudan 70 years ago. He started soldiering
in the Cape Mounted Rifles, but re-enlisted in
the 2nd Dragoon Guards; war-service was
with the Guards Heavy Camel Corps, which
formed part of the force which fought its way
up the Nile Valley in January, 1885, and
reached Khartoum, too late by one day to
rescue Gordon. Hills arrived in Weslralia in
1911 and farmed in the Lake Grace district
until he sold his property five years ago.


[ SA\H HIM LAST ttuSHT
mo ut!s rEtziziftc. 7/
ff
-fit’s gfAU-y PEVASTATfAk? . ,
V ; //
)&>, gHldl, COLOSSAL. .
ff
UuT Of THIS WOfZLP.
V
fosmtof fASuLoof.
-5s '
OntHs Gat*6 TO 66?<N O HtN\ INTO
rr
Th£ OffiCS Took/ an? l.£T ug s££ HllA
'PiPHT l TOLU you '? (SNT H£ //
P&ZjFgen-y PMN& i
SUPERLATIVE!


ABORIGINALITIES
A REPORT from London states that,
at a “real Australian meal” to be
served to a select gathering, specially im-
ported gum-twigs will be stewed in the
tea to give it the “authentic flavor”
beloved of the Australian bushman.
Well, if they seek to duplicate the
dinkum flavors of the brew as drunk in
various parts of the hinterland, they
should add the scrapings of a muddy
claypan and a few dead frogs; borax,
purgative-, diuretic- and emetic-salts and
the other components of bore-water, with
a dash of decomposing bullock.
On the other hand, if they want the
kind of tea the bushman really likes, they
should make it in a china-pot from a
kettle of boiling rainwater.
. Also the organisers of the London gus-
tatory atrocity are having fresh gum-
leaves flown over, wherein to wrap the
steaks before broiling them—another
delicacy allegedly favored in the Open
Spaces. Now why don’t they go the whole
hog and flavor the damper with kerosene
and the sugar with ants, and boil the rice
in petroliferous water and the duff in an
old singlet?
MINGARI.
“Saaedi”: I don’t know enough about
lyrebirds to draw conclusions, but the
avian mimic in my neighborhood
apparently disdains to waste his talents
on gospellers of gloom. Thus, though
the whine of the fantailed-cuckoo and
doleful whoop of the swamp-pheasant
are both loud and frequent, he never
includes them in his repertoire. Kelly’s
dismal cawing has also been missing from
his bush-concerts. All other resident birds
that are numerous and have resounding
voices—magpies, whipbirds, kookas, etc.
—appear to receive attention. Nomads
and migrants are mostly ignored. Dearest
to the heart of my master-mimic must be
the glorious notes of the grey shrike-
thrush. At least they are recorded more
frequently than any other sound, and
the grey bird’s magic loses little in the
magnificent throat of Menura.
* * * *
“Montrose”: I heard the characteristic
notes of a magpie’s hawk-warning from
high up instead of about the usual tree-
top level. Maggie had a grip on the tail
of a hawk and was actually being towed
by him. Their relative positions didn’t
alter while I watched them, and Mag’s
spread wings seemed to be doing no more
than balance her. Her SOS-call for
assistance—if it were one —didn’t produce
any. Nor did I see what happened when
she declutched. From that height she’d
have had little chance to escape into tree-
tops if the big fella decided that only her
blood would wipe out the insult.
“A.H.”: One recent sunny morning,
after overnight rain, I counted 10 species
of birds in sight. On the roadway minahs,
starlings, peewees, Indian sooty-doves and
sparrows made hay in the early sun on
a !? d^ n '? a£ ? f b . read an . d . such wor ” s
and other live food as had been washed
out by the showers. In a hibiscus planted
on the footpath by a benevolent council
a chattering band of New Holland honey-
eaters performed their gymnastics; an
Eastern spinebill helicoptered in front
of my fuchsia-flowers in competition
with the lovely, but sometimes unloved,
silver-eye; on a few aged cosmos seed-
heads dangled four European gold-
finches; and on the lawn that feather-
clad dynamo the blue-wren yelled his
defiance at the whole blasted world while
“ She’s just heard about Pavlova.”
his demure lady snapped comma-sized
prey from the grass-tops. If I could claim
sound as evidence, the familiar gravel-
voice of “Kelly” would add a further
name to the list, although I could not
actually see the sable corsair. And in
what part of the country was this avian
paradise? In a Sydney suburban street
only 12 minutes from Martin-place by
bus.
* * * #
“Motuku”: The strange off-white or
light-grey hawk seen by “B. A. Ker”
(B. 1/6/’55) was possibly the letter-
winged kite. Much smaller than the red-
backed sea-eagle, these beautiful little
kites are comparatively rare, and never
stay long in one place. Like the nankeen-
kestrels, they are experts at riding the
wind, hanging motionless on a 15-knot
breeze, to drop suddenly on grasshoppers,
land-crabs or lizards among our dune-
grasses. As for pigeons taking fright,
they have an instinctive dread of any bird
that looks like a hawk ; even a boy’s kite,
swooping at the end of a string, will give
them the jitters.
* * * *
“Bass”: Discovery in England of a
black moth which has evolved from a
much lighter variety is one of the great
biological finds of our day. This change
from light to dark during the last half-
century provides the one proof the theory
of evolution previously lacked —an
example of evolution in progress. The
black moths, called melanics, have all
appeared in factory areas, and
they’ve evolved from species which
previously had protective coloring,
mostly patterns which blended with
the bark of trees. It was noticed
years ago that these occasionally
produced black individuals which
seemed to be hardier than their
normal-hued fellows, but which,
lacking the protective coloration,
soon fell a prey to their natural
enemies. So they remained rare until
the trees were cut down and replaced
with smoke-grimed buildings. Then
the position was reversed. The
melanics now had the protective
colors and the mottled greys were
conspicuous, and the scales were
tipped so effectively that black be-
came the normal color. Possibly
some greys still appear, just as previ-
ously a few blacks did, but they don’t
live long enough to breed and pass
the strain along. That’s what Darwin
claimed happened among all -living
things—but he didn’t guess it could
happen so quickly.
“Mat’s Mate”: Three of us on an emu-
bobbing contract took week about to be
camp-cook. On Mat’s second turn he
read in some paper a recipe for a home-
made no ugat and wanted to know what
harm a bit ot confectionery would do.
N f y « Mat
’ ® * ar as , we c 0 . ee - 55
cons ulted the recipe again, found enough
treacle, su 8 ar > sultanas and nutmeg m our
stores to give it a go. He had the stuff
boiling away but couldn’t leave it alone ;
thought a bit of cinnamon would help
the flavor, then that salt ought to be
added, and so forth. When it cooled the
stuff was a kind of brown, rubbery goo.
Jack tried the first bit. His upper plate
got stuck in it and wouldn’t come out.
We advised him to let the stuff harden,
which was wrong, because it set like iron
and in it sat the teeth. Jack, vain of his
appearance, stayed in camp while we took
the mistake down to the station and
emery-wheeled most of the nougat off.
Jack could use the teeth, but they were
covered with a fine, brown coating which
even saliva took months to shift. Mat
always reckoned he’d invented the world’s
best cement, but, somewhat like O.
Henry’s “Lost Ingredient,” he could
never remember exactly what he’d added
to that recipe.
* * * *
A MONG the least familiar of Australian
animals are the marsupial mice; not
because they are particularly rare, but
because of their nocturnal habits. Unfor-
tunately, much of our acquaintance with
these fierce little carnivores must be
credited to the domestic cat, bringing in
specimens during the night.
Although weighing less than an ounce,
the female may accommodate, in some
species, as many as 10 young in her
pouch. As they outgrow this accommo-
dation they cling to their parent’s body
and are dependent on her almost till they
attain adult size. Mainly insect-eaters,
they will also attack and devour other
mammals of equal size, and it has been
noted that they appear to increase in
numbers in the wake of common-mouse
plagues.
Near Lithgow (N.S.W.) I once found
under a large piece of bark a family of
mother and five young, these quite large
and active. Among the debris in the nest
was evidence that the common large blue-
green centipede is considered nutritious.
One of these happened to be the first
eligible item of natural food I found; it
was a fair-average specimen about 6in.
long.
I had some misgivings about Mrs.
Sminthopsis’s ability to handle it, but
she did not share my timidity ; the subse-
quent engagement was a diminutive
replica of the classic mongoose-cobra
kind of scrap. The lady danced in to the
attack, delivered a telling snap on the
nearest part of centipede, then smartly
back-moved to avoid the strike.
Finally a head-grip was maintained,
and she started to eat her prey from the
head down. This was apparently the
signal for her quins to join in, and, after
making a few infantile passes in imitation
of Ma, they set-to for the feast.
My own bairn witnessed the fight, and,
with that aptitude for descriptive nomen-
clature characteristic of kids and Yanks,
christened her “Marsuper Mouse.”
L.H.
TWO DEAD MEN
There are two men dead in the mine tonight,
You, Bill, and me;
They’re buried deep at a thousand feet,
You, Bill, and me.
The back caved-in as we rigged the bar,
Heavy, sudden, without a sound,
Like the hand of God come down to hell
To push you down on your knees to pray,
Pushing you down and into the ground,
You, Bill, and me.
A thousand tons of ore, and more,
On you, Bill, and me;
At an ounce to the ton there’s a fortune there,
On you, Bill, and me.
The air rushed out of the fallen stope
And through the mine like a quick warm
breath;
Blew out the lamps along the drive
So that men stood still in waiting fear,
Afraid of the dark, afraid of death
For you, Bill, and me.
The whistle howled across at the plant
For you, Bill, and me,
And the other shifts came back to work
For you, Bill, and me.
They’re digging now as they never dug,
Tearing at mullock and quartz and mud,
Bogger, trucker, miner and boss,
Sweating on shovel and pick and bar . . .
It’s funny to see them sweating blood
For you, Bill, and me.
They’d better to leave us where we are,
You, Bill, and me;
They’ll only move us to barren ground,
You, Bill, and me.
A shallow shaft and a wooden box
And mullock it up to a little mound,
Mullock it up with virgin quartz
With never the slightest show of gold,
Never a trace of color around
You, Bill, and me.
They’d better to leave us where we are,
You, Bill, and me,
Buried deep in a paying lode,
You, Bill, and me.
Till the gold seeps in between our ribs,
And into our ears and eyes, and we
Are gold all through from head to foot,
Golden eyes and golden bones,
Golden skeletons, you and me,
You, Bill, and me.
Then out we’d come like jewellers’ shops,
You, Bill, and me,
And dance in the dark at a thousand feet,
You, Bill, and me.
And the light of the flickering carbide
lamps
Would catch the gleam of our golden
bones
As we did a rattling golden dance
Along the drives and through the
stopes,
Around the bulks and over the stones,
You, Bill, and me.
But the shift-boss wouldn’t believe in
ghosts
Of you, Bill, and me;
He’d douse his torch and wait in the dark
For you, Bill, and me.
He’d tell us to stop our mucking-about:
“Get up the shaft and get your pay;
You’ve had it as far as I’m concerned . . .
You’re out, you’re fired, you’re over the hill.”
That’s what he’d tell us; that’s what he’d say
To you, Bill, and me.
So we’d ring four times and up we’d ge,
You, Bill, and me;
Up to the surface; up and away;
You, Bill, and me.
And we’d be hunted over the ’fields
For what we were, for what we’d got . . .
A couple of dancing golden ghosts
Worth a fortune to any man
Who could get us into his dolly-pot,
You, Bill, and me.
They’d want the two of us, dead or alive,
You, Bill, and me;
So we’d lead ’em a glorious golden dance,
You, Bill, and me.
Till they lost the glint of our golden bones
In the molten, shimmering gibber light,
Or the stars took up our dancing gleam
Along the crests of the iron hills;
Lost in the day; lost in the night;
You, Bill, and me.
N.S.W.
OLIVER FILTER.


THAT a campfire fed with gidgee
should save the cook his matches for
a fortnight is, as “Morayda” (B. 18/5/’55)
rightly thinks, a bit of a marvel; but I
once worked in a Kalgoorlie foundry
where the fire in the big core-stove —a
brick vault 20ft. long, by 10ft. wide, by
10ft. high—held the spark of combustion
for a whole year!
Fed every second knock-off night with
half a dozen big salmon-gum logs fresh
from the bush, it needed only the ashes
to be stirred-up and a little kindling added
to start the blaze. Naturally, over the
Christmas shut-down it went out.
In the early W.A. goldfields days,
before the tribes had acquired matches
and the average buck resented being
obliged to use the fire-making tools,
elderly gins retained the right to live by
acting as fire-carriers: all day long carry-
ing a stick from the morning fire: occa-
sionally livening the spark up by waving
it in the wind: shielding it carefully
under their booka-cape in the rare event
of rain. No vestals of ancient Rome
nursed their sacred fire more carefully
than those old girls: dire would have been
their punishment should camping-time
arrive and the fire-sticks be out.
Boulder Road.
“Snowy”: All this talk about keeping
domestic fires going for a few weeks or
even a year makes me smile. On the
Monaro (N.S.W.) some kitchen-fires
hadn’t been out, around the turn of the
century, for several decades. It was
simply a matter of putting the ends of
the logs in the centre last thing at night
and piling the red ashes over them. In
the morning the ashes were raked off, a
handful of gumleaves or candle-bark
added, and soon the fire would leap into
life. The class of wood used didn’t seem
to matter.
“Saaedi”: A quaint little fellow is the
banded finch. A thin black band running
from above his eyes round the bluish-grey
“Cost y’ a quid an hour, missus — shockin, aint it?"
neck gives him an odd appearance,
vaguely owlish —hence the alternative
name, owl-finch. The smallest finch in
Australia, he holds himself erect and
hops about his business with a gay and
jaunty air. Unfortunately he’s inquisitive,
and therefore easily trapped. Confined
to small cages, he frequently gives up
the ghost, but seems to find life not in-
supportable in aviaries. An easy mark for
predators—including man —the banded
finch is as yet in no danger of extinction
—due to a disposition towards families
that are large and often. Occupied nests
may be found most months in the year,
and six eggs are quite a common clutch.
* * * *
“Warrabulla”: Experiments concerning
the ability of humans to live on seawater
make me wonder how
sheep, cattle and horses not
only live but thrive on water
that tastes as salt as the sea
and is to man just as un-
drinkable, even in extremity.
Many of the wells and sub-
artesian-bores on t h e
coastal plain of Westralia’s
nor’-west are bitter and
briny, and when of neces-
sity men have drunk it the
results have been serious
and painful—yet they’re
the only source of supply
for thousands of head of
stock the year round. One
strong, fit man who, forced
to abandon a broken-down
truck, started on a 15-mile
walk (in summer) to the
homestead, and half-way
there drank from such a
well, arrived retching and
raving, a condition that
lasted two or three hours —
yet 3 GOO sheep used that well
daily. It can’t be due to
gradually becoming used to
the fluid, as sheep were
often switched from a pad-
dock where the water was
nearly fresh to another
where it was the reverse, without any
observable effect —nor did they show any
reluctance to drink, right from the start.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Here’s an SOS! Henry
Lawson wrote “The Captain of the
Push.” Somebody made up a parody on
it, quite unprintable. I’ve met scores
who’ve heard it recited at bucks’ parties,
but none .of them can remember more
than a few verses. Now I’m getting
requests for copies of it from various
quarters in the U.S.; they, too, can get
a few odd verses, but no more. News-
paper staffs in Australia have been can-
vassed in vain. A request posted-up in a
commercial-travellers’ club brought no
results. But there must be somebody in
Australia who does know it right through
Will he please send to me, care of The
Bulletin, a copy of the verses in full?
To comply with postal-regulations, the
adjectives can be left blank —they can
be filled-in without trouble. I’ve heard
that when Burl Ives was here he tried to
get a copy of it and failed. Odd that what
is undoubtedly a classic of its type should
be so well-known, yet so little known, if
you get what I mean.
* * * *
“Baksac”: Our local Cray’s not being
equipped with the formidable pincers of
the overseas lobster led me to believe
that his means of self-preservation must
have been confined to passive resistance.
An aborigine showed me otherwise. He
was working around the rocks at Kiama
(N.S.W.) with a piece of meat tied to a
long string. Deep down in the water a
cray took the bait. Gently the fisherman
drew the line up, the crustacean hanging
on, reluctant to lose a tasty meal. The
feelers broke the water —the limit to
which a cray will go without releasing
its grip. Instantly a dusky hand shot out,
seizing the feelers in a firm but light grip ;
but, instead of lifting the creature out
of the water, he gently raised and lowered
his hand with the rise and fall of the
waves. “Easy break ’em off,” he ex-
plained. At the exact moment his right
hand swept in, took a quick grip just
back from the head and whisked the
captive out. The procedure looked so
easy I wanted to try my hand. A demon-
stration of what could happen to an in-
experienced catcher dissuaded me.
Beneath the tail are two long spikes; the
cray attacks by slapping his tail down
and bringing the object into contact with
the weapons. If a hand gripped too low
down —phew!
• * * *
“5.4 E.”: Of a ditty I first—and last —
heard sung by the horse-tailer of a
droving-outfit on the Flinders (N.Q.) 30-
odd years ago, I recall:
“Oh, Willie, dearest Willie, you’re leaving
me behind,
To fret and rue the hour [pronounced
“hower-r-r”] that you first learned to
ride.
You’ve a delicate constitution —your fingers
are too small,
For you to rough an outlaw, if one to you
should fall.”
In the rest of the dirge the lady avowed
her willingness to cut off her hair —a
step which would cause no comment
these days, but apparently serious at the
time—don trousers (even worse) and
accompany Willie on his wanderings
even unto:
“Washing dirty moleskins on the banks of
the Condamine.”
Have wondered ever since whether the
extent of the self-abnegation thus pro-
mised was sufficient to cause Willie to
abandon his hazardous equestrian inten-
tions and take a job in a bank —or did
the callous little brute drag his lady,
breeched and bobbed by her own hand,
out into the perils of the cattle-camps?
She sounds to me a bit hard to shake ;
anybody know her ultimate fate?
* * * *
“Naturala”: ' Thus “K.A.” (B.
18/5/’55): “A wandering human or
animal tends to follow a circle, and it
would be interesting to know if this varies
according to hemisphere.” It shouldn’t.
Science long ago decided that wandering
in a wide circle by humans (not all do)
was due to one leg being slightly shorter,
making the step forward with that leg
also shorter. Almost invariably it is the
left leg, but there’s no positive rule. This
short step on one side, repeated a
thousand times, leads the wanderer
around in a circle. Where landmarks,
etc., serve for guidance the walker walks
straight on. Don’t know that lost
animals walk in circles. The horses and
cows I’ve had all seemed to have legs of
the same length.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: I nominate the scythe
as the most awkward of all tools to
master. How I’ve sweated and sworn,
kinked my back and blistered not-easily
blistered hands in a maximum of effort
for a minimum of effect with the un-
gainly implement! And yet I’ve seen men
who could shave a lawn closely with it,
and do so with the smoothest, most effort-
less rhythm imaginable. The know-how
seemed to be a top-secret they kept to
themselves, till an old-timer cutting a
crop by hand in a 10-acre paddock ex-
plained: “All you have to remember is
that a scythe is a saw, not an axe. You
wouldn’t chop with a saw, so don’t do
it with a scythe. When you sharpen a
scythe you should draw the stone forward
and outwards; that sharpens the blade
with a saw-tooth edge, and the tiny teeth
all point forwards. The cutting action is
this”: He placed the point of the scythe
against a small cluster of barley-stalks
and drew the blade forward and round in
a slow arc. The stalks toppled—literally
sawn off. I’m still no expert with a scythe,
but the lesson made me about 20 times
more efficient than I was.
* * * *
“M’Lou”: In the early nights of the
Horsham (Vic.) course, trotting enthusi-
asts were getting in through an unguarded
back fence, but the committee soon woke-
up to them. Also in Vic., at Terang, like-
minded followers of the sport worked
out a better one: they went through the
gates unseen, packed two to a boot it|
some confederate’s car.
* * * *
“C.”: Bung controlled two of the five
pubs in the country town; he ran one
with a dummy licensee and his wife ran
the other. Beer was short; sessions pre-
vailed. He had one sour cask left, his
wife none. Telling her it would save
keeping both pubs open, he shut up and
sent her the crookie, without comment.
The customers came, saw, tasted, and fell
silent in glum meditation of the vinegary,
lifeless-looking liquid set before them.
Mrs. Bung was well-liked; criticism was
nobly restrained. With dashes of “sarse,”
ginger-ale or spirits they sent the lot off,
the un-merriest lot of imbibers you ever
saw. Out of sight around the corner of
the bar Bung doubled up in spasms of
unholy glee. The old saying, “There’s no
b&d beer,” certainly stood the acid-test
that day.
* * * *
■\4"AYBE it’s sacrilege to mention such
a name in the same breath as
Wanganella, Boonoke, Bundemar, Egela-
bra, Merryville and the rest of peerage,
but, spending a wet Sunday poring over
that first-rate Wool Supplement (B.
1/6/’55), thoughts drifted back to some-
body who had as many sheep as most
of them, but would never get a mention —
Edmund Jowett.
All right! All right! I know—I’ve
seen ’em!
About 30 years ago they used to come
through. Each November, via Holbrook,
Jingellic and the Upper Murray, the
motley mob would make the trip from
the plains to the snow-leases. I worked
right on the stock-route, at Lankey’s
Creek, and whilst at that season drovers
were daily company, Jowett’s mobs were
a race apart. Many races!
Big, hairy Lincoln-crosses, Merino-
casts, crossbreds, purebreds, no-breeds,
black, white, striped or spotted—l
reckon the smallest ones would walk
under the biggest often during the day
and never know it.
Nobody since Noah achieved such
variety as Jowett. All he required was
that an animal should wear wool and
dress into mutton, both terms used in
the most generous sense. And when the
mobs were delivered to the shepherds on
the tops the drovers would drift back
and for a few days relax at the old slab-
shanty which adorned the Creek. Then
the sheep-dogs, with time on their paws,
would zealously work the shanty’s
speckled hens, which had about as much
chance of reaching the stud-book as had
Jowett’s sheep.
I often wondered if the dogs’ memories
would be good enough to round-up a few
of those chooks on the next trip and add
them to the mob. They wouldn’t have
made much difference.
BILLY T.
RAIN MAROOCHYDORE
Beyond my window drones the flooded night
didgeridoo of treefrogs, and the barked
staccato of brown cane-toads by the swamp.
The heart’s oppressed and lonely, missing stars
and brighter nocturnes that it once assessed
from cricket-music, sea, and glancing light,
The humid air is a morass of sound
from half-drowned logs and great white-bodied
trees
laved to ’their gnarled and gaunt and updrawn
knees
whispering somehow of mysteries profound
yet fraught with dread: sagas that propound
black magic of dimensions far from these.
Murky the night, the grass, the boughs, the sky,
with earth re-echoing the ocean’s sigh.
Before this wild harsh din my narrow sill
now seems to buckle, frail beneath my
hand . . .
Swamp, beach and river, dunes of pale blown
sand,
at heart remain the dark man’s country still.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


f f
: . ’ ft : uj
: ‘ »> •. ' .r": •': Fri
mm
*
mm
■■--'■-■ #»»£ V& ':'::- ! ' Wtf
The Nuffield
Universal Tractor
shown excavating
with a front-mounted
loader, hydraulically
operated from the
internal hydraulics.
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
NUFF
The Nuffield Universal is a thoroughly
efficient, reliable and easy-to-handle tractor.
It is a Task Force in itself and, combined
with the comprehensive range of
after-test” matched implements,
your work . . . makes it easier.
"approved-
speeds up
DO YOU KNOW THESE MONEY-SAVING FACTS?
The Nuffield Universal Tractor (kerosene-
powered), equipped with 13.50 x 24 rear
and 6.00 x 16 front tyres, sells at only
£l,ol s'lB'-
F.0.R., F. 0.8. Capital Cities.
(Plus Sales Tax only where applicable.)
At this price your Nuffield tractor is ready to go
to work, and includes the following equipment:
Hydraulic lift, 3-point linkage and power take-off,
belt pulley, drawbar, drawbar extension, seat
cushion, canvas tractor cover, electric starter,
electric horn, headlight, agricultural rear light,
tail light, side lights, heat gauge, hour meter, foot
plates, chaff screens and radiator shutters
BMC
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
mum
Wtmf
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
[NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. A UNIT. OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
NT29.32
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Mergeritis
“Yl/HO’S afraid of the big,
** bold take-over boys?”
Some boards of directors don’t
like ’em'; but in the majority of
cases there seems to be a.feeling
of inevitability and a willingness
to relax and enjoy the experience
—after a suitable price has been
arranged. And over the past
few months the ripple of take-
overs has become a wave.
Prices being paid in almost
every case are a multiplication
of the market-price of the
shares of the taken-over concern
before it became the subject of
take-over speculation. Double,
treble or quadruple the old
market-value is not uncommon
in the case of retail stores.
(There is another sort of take-
over current at the moment,
where big fish in an overcapi-
talised, overproducing industry
take over the smaller fish at cut-
prices ; but it is not yet as
common as the other kind.)
In assessing the price being
paid by the taking-over concern,
weight is given to the market-
price of that co.’s own shares.
And usually that represents a
substantial premium over par-
value. Thus, in the case of the
Rex Investments acquisition of
the Carlton Hotel, though the
market-value of the considera-
tion expressed in Rex shares and
cash was £593,250, par-value
involved was only £270,375.
Also, in the case of Finney
Isles, Myer’s offer of 225. 6d. a
share in cash and six ss. Myer
stock-units had a cash-and-par-
value of 525. 6d., against a
cash-and-market-value of 110 s.
In most cases, it will be seen,
sharemarket premium is a big
factor in clinching these deals.
And that makes the take-over
practice not so dangerous as it
might seem from a conservative
business viewpoint. Assuming
that the taking-over company
had to raise capital from its
shareholders at par it might have
to increase its capital to a con-
siderably greater extent in order
to buy a suitable freehold and
put up a building.
The glamor attached to pre-
sent take-over offers, from the
point of view of shareholders in
the taken-over company, obvi-
ously depends a good deal on the
prevailing tone of the share-
market. Those who want to be
sure of the cash-value of the
consideration they receive may
find it advisable to sell the scrip
they get. On the other hand, to
show a return on their taken-
over investment equal to the
earning-rate on their established
business most take-over com-
panies will need to pep-up
earnings of the new acquisition.
How such anticipations turn out
will depend upon the judgment
and ability of the new manage-
ment.
“Mergeritis” in past times of
boom has very often preceded
trade-recession. General Indus-
tries, Ltd., and United Provi-
sions, Ltd. (to select random
examples), were both formed in
1927 to amalgamate businesses
engaged—respectively—in bath-
and-stove manufacture and ham-
and-smallgoods processing. Each
soon struck trouble in its par-
ticular field. But in most of the
present cases, as indicated above,
the actual cost of the taken-over
concern has represented a com-
paratively small addition to the
capital of the company taking
over.
An Odd Pub Company
Offers exceeding half a million
for Sydney city hotels stand out
in contrast to the figures given
in the prospectus, of Freehold
and Brewery Properties, Ltd.,
incorporated in Sydney on
March 9, 1955. It may go to
allotment on the subscription of
10,000 ss. shares (£2500), and it
reckons it can get control of a
pub for a cash outlay as low as
£1750, a brewery presumably
providing the rest on loan.
Elsewhere in the prospectus it
is indicated that breweries will
lend 60 p.c. of the value of the
freehold, so the assumption is
that the co. expects to be able
to buy a “small” pub for about
£4375. It isn’t stated definitely
whether such a pub can be got
this side of the black stump, but
•the general inference is that it
will be licensed to sell fermented
and spirituous liquors, not lolly-
water. 1
The co., though, is really ask-
ing for £50,000 in 200,000 shares
of ss. each. It reckons it can
finance a £20,000 hotel on £BOOO
of its own money, and show a
profit of 29.5 p.c. on its stake
from leasing the hotel to a
licensee. Tax and loan-repay-
ments reduce the percentage (in
smaller type over the page) to
11.3 p.c. But in due course
loan-repayments will give the co.
a complete equity in the
freeholds.
If only the minimum subscrip-
tion for allotment (£2500) comes
in the directors reckon that £5OO
will go in preliminary expenses,
£250 in underwriting commis-
sion, and the aforementioned
£1750 will be left for “working
capital.”
The directors are decidedly
impersonal characters. The first
is given as “Tricompany Hotels
Pty., Ltd., a Subsidiary Com-
pany duly incorporated under
the Companies Act in New
South Wales and having its
registered office at 812 a George-
street, Sydney, in the said State.”
The second is “Tricompany
Holdings Pty., Ltd., a Factor
Company,” same rigmarole,
same address. The third is
“Tricompany Securities Pty.,
Ltd., a Managing Company,”
ditto, ditto. And when one finds
the memorandum and articles of
association signed by these com-
panies, as directors, through
their attorneys, one’s mind
logically turns to thoughts of
artificial insemination.
Among the seven subscribers
to the memorandum there are
four individuals and three com-
panies—again by their attorneys.
They are Nuclear Press Pty.,
Ltd. (which also prints the pros-
pectus) ; Semantic Sales Pty.,
Ltd.; and Mackenzie’s Mercan-
tile Agency Pty., Ltd. The
address of each subscriber is
given as 155 a Sussex-street, Syd-
ney. Witness to the signatures
is one D. Hampton, of the same
address.
Brokers for the issue are Tri-
company Securities Pty., Ltd.,
and the prospectus says that
commission of 6d. per ss. share
may be paid on the present issue.
Finney Isles
Directors of Finney, Isles and
Co., Ltd., Brisbane department-
store people, have announced a
bonus-issue of one-for-one, to
come from the revaluation of
assets. Freeholds, the board
says, though in the books at
original cost of £437,978, are
worth over a million, and other
fixed assets are in at cost, less
depreciation. An additional
10 p.c. bonus will be paid on the
present capital, making 20 p.c.
out of profits for the current
year.
The directors say that it is
“quite fantastic to think that
the Myer Emporium is making
any gift to the stockholders of
Finney’s” in its offer of 225. 6d.
a share in cash and six ss. Myer
stock-units for each Finney
share. Acceptance is not recom-
mended by Finney’s directors,
who say that the co. is only now
beginning to reap the benefit of
alterations, improvements and
years of hard planning.
Paid capital of Finney, Isles
is now £452,124, and on last
balance-sheet values there was a
net tangible backing of 465. sd.
a share. This will be added to
considerably by the revaluation
preceding the bonus-issue, after
which it will be halved as capital
is doubled. Finney’s £1 shares
have gone to over 80s, in Bris-
bane. In Melbourne Myer ss.
units are selling at 14s. 6d.
Carlton and Rex
Rex Investments, Ltd., will
buy the Carlton Hotel, in
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, for
£278,250 in cash and 525,000 ss.
shares in Rex. (After the deal
was announced Rex shares sold
at 12s. each, making the price,
on paper, £593,250.) Rex
intends to finance the cash part
of the deal by selling 556,500
of its own ss. shares at 10s.
each—this has already been
arranged. Total issue by Rex
will thus be 1,081,500 shares, par
value £270,375. More than half
the cost of the purchase will be
met from the market premium
obtainable on Rex shares, which
in 1954 sold as low as 6s.
Present issued capital of Rex
is 1,849,800 fully-paid ss. shares
and 942,900 contribs. It paid a
9 p.c. dividend in 1953-54 with
this year’s interim 10 p.c. p.a.
It owns hotels in Canberra,
King’s Cross and elsewhere. It
intends to modernise the
Carlton.
All the shares in Carlton
Hotel, Ltd., are owned by Carl-
ton Investments, Ltd., which has
a paid capital of £l 64,995 in
164,042 10s. ords. and 82,978 £1
7 p.c. prefs. The ords. sold as
low as 14s. 6d. in 1954. They
were at 465. last week.
Overseas Trade Deficit
For 11 months to May 31,
Australia’s overseas-trade deficit
was £62.8 million. Imports dur-
ing May were the highest in any
month since April, 1952. Imports
for the 11 months were £768.6
million, compared with £604.8
million in the same period of
1953-54 —up £163.8 million. Ex-
ports at £705.8 million were
down £65.7 million, and the
trade deficit of £62.8 million
compared with a surplus of
£166.7 million in the same period
of 1953-54.
Some estimates put the ad-
verse balance-of-payments for
the current financial year at over
£2OO million. That includes
overseas interest commitments,
dividends payable abroad,
capital-withdrawals, etc.
The effect of import-restriction
is only now beginning to make
itself felt.
Mining in the Solomons
In order to encourage pros-
pecting and mining in the
British Solomon Islands Protec-
torate, the Secretary-of-State for
the Colonies has agreed to
various amendments to the
mining regulation.
The changes v/hich have been
agreed to are as follows:
(i) The two sections of the regula-
tion, which at present empower the
Mining Board to require applicants
for prospecting-licences and mining-
leases to show proof that they have
sufficient financial resources at their
disposal to carry out their proposed
operations, are to be repealed.
(ii) The regulation is to be amended
so as to ensure that a prospector who
discovers minerals will have a secure
title to his discovery, provided that
clearly specified working conditions
are fulfilled.
(iii) The Mining (Radio-Active
Minerals) Rules, 1948, are to be
repealed and replaced by a provision
requiring all discoveries of radio-
active substances to be reported to
the Government and a licence
obtained before they are exported.
In addition to these amend-
ments, immediate consideration'
is to be given to the abolition
of the present royalty scales and
their replacement by lower
scales.
U.K. legislation to give effect
to these various amendments is
to be enacted soon.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
69 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.O , SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
At the point of your pen . •«
v
There's a wonderful sense of convenience
in a Bank of New South Wales cheque
book. Payment of bills is so easy and
safe, for a cheque in the post saves
much time and trouble. Once cashed,
your cheque is proof of payment, and
cheque butts and bank statement pro-
vide a convenient and accurate record
of expenditure. Finally, you won't need
to carry large sums of money when you
have a cheque book in your pocket.
Why not put one there today?
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5512C
Industrial Engineering
Limited
(Incorporated !n Victoria on 14th November, 1946)
REGISTERED OFFICE: Ashley Street, West Footscr-ay, Vic.
ISSUE AT PAR (£100)
of £250,000
REGISTERED
UNSECURED NOTES
1
2
CURRENCY . . . FIVE YEARS
ISSUE NOW OPEN
Prospectus may be obtained from:
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
and MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES
Underwriting Brokers:
lAN POTTER & CO.
360 Collins Street 31 Hunter Street
Melbourne Sydney
For public information. This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to
the public to subscribe for the Notes mentioned herein.
1P3.18
London Aiunail
From Herbert Holman
THE general election intro-
duced a new kind of expert
to the public and a new word to
the vocabulary. The word,
psephologist (not the loveliest
addition to our language), is the
self-description of the man
behind the electronic brain.
We had heard, vaguely, of the
wizardry of this remarkable
machine which devours “know-
ledge” in the form of punched
cards, is able to store “informa-
tion” and at the touch of a
switch can carry out, in an
instant, abstruse calculations
that would take a mathematician
scores of hours to perform. And
we knew that industry is aware
of its possibilities and that Lon-
don’s biggest caterers have
installed one, at a five-figure cost,
to help with their accounting.
We therefore welcomed the
background importance of both
master and machine (nicknamed,
less grandiloquently, “Deuce”)
in the election broadcasts and
telecasts. “Deuce” rose to the
occasion with splendid
enthusiasm and efficiency. The
veracity of his lightning-calcula-
tions was never in question. If
he was badly out at one period
he was hardly to be blamed,
for what else could be expected
when he had been “fed” with
Labor results for Tory, and
vice versa? This corrected, the
psephologists believed in him
almost to the end. Science, vice
“Deuce,” proclaimed in ad-
vance a majority of about 90.
But when the less abstruse craft
of simple arithmetic proved
beyond dispute that the figure
could not exceed 60 they had
to give in and admit to some
fallacy in their deliberations.
So many of us who, on simple,
non-mathematical reasoning pre-
dicted a majority of 40-60 were
left chuckling; and one news-
paper, which forecast the result
correct to an error of only one
seat by the simple method of
collating the predictions of its
local correspondents, was rightly
jubilant.
Psephology was ready enough
with an explanation—something
to the effect that “differential
turn-out in the various constitu-
encies was different from the
expected.” That is to say, the
pattern of voting in some dis-
tricts was not the same as in
others. We aren’t all alike, it
seems, even as communities, and
sometimes our behavior is un-
predictable. Though it may be
disconcerting to the psephologist,
that’s how we prefer to remain.
Locomen v. Nation
Things have come to such a
pass in our nationalised indus-
tries that nothing except whole
or substantial capitulation will
save a strike. Both railwaymen’s
unions must have known that
their perverse obduracy would
lose votes to their natural
sympathiser, the Labor party.
Yet the Associated Society of
Locomotive Engineers and Fire-
men persisted in its uncom-
promising defiance of letter and
spirit of the machinery of in-
dustrial negotiation. It passed off
the inconvenience to Whitsuntide
holiday-makers as coincidental
and abrogated all responsibility
for precipitating a national crisis
and a state of emergency. There
is no reason to suspect a Com-
munist plot. And the strike was
not due to the dominance of one
person, for the union’s secretary,
Mr. Baty, was ill during its early
stages.
Taking a sectional view, the
A.S.L.E.F. had their own reasons
for feeling sore. They have suf-
fered from the narrowing of
differentials and from the state
of overfull employment. Their
rival, the National Union of
Railwaymen, stole a march on
them on an earlier occasion by
the same tactics and got away
with it; and the N.U.R., they
know, is determined not to
make any kind of fraternal
gesture and thus lose the
advantage it has gained.
So the nation, its industry and
its workers, had to pay—and pay
heavily—for a long-standing and
bitter feud between the two
unions. There was no trade-
union principle involved. The
reverse, in fact. For the
A.S.L.E.F., which numbers four-
fifths of the footplate-men in its
ranks, was seeking to establish
that membership of itself will
command higher pay than with
the N.U.R.
The settlement, arrived at after
17 days of idle trains, involves
a considerable element of sur-
render on the part of the Trans-
port Commission, in that higher
rates of pay are to follow
quickly the resumption of work.
The precedent which this sets by
giving a promise before resump-
tion of work may have serious
repercussions in other branches
of industry. However, the nego-
tiators seem to have avoided the
threat of counter-bargaining be-
tween the rival unions. Basic
rates for drivers are to be
examined, a referee will suggest
a figure he thinks appropriate
and both unions are prepared to
accept his decision.
Triumphant Double
The Old Vic’s marathon task .
of plodding through the First
Folio is abundantly rewarded by
an outstanding presentation of
both parts of “Henry IV.” And
once again the provinces have
shown us how to get the best out
of Shakspeare. Sir Barry Jack-
son has contributed his long
repertory experience to the
preparation of a well-pointed
text which Douglas Seale has
produced with full-blooded
Elizabethan exuberance.
Nobody does anything by
halves. The fighting looks
realistic and dangerous. People
are slow to die, uproarious in
carousal and sublimely fluent in
self-expression. One witness, at
least, has never seen Shak-
spearian comedy, so often con-
trived and tedious, come over
with such freshness and spon-
taneity. True, much of it was
not set down by the author and
is the stuff of pantomime, but the
timing and execution are so
deft as to give these hoary
devices the light brilliance of
grace-notes.
Mr. Seale does not overplay
the comedy. It is the potential
kingliness of Prince Harry that
dominates the plays, not the roll-
ing vicissitudes of Falstaff.
Inductions and epilogues are
omitted. The stage is dark at the
beginning and empty at the end.
Some incidents are intensely
poignant. The difficult death-bed
scene, for instance, is given
emotion in full measure and
slow time, but performance still
triumphs over theatricality.
The playing, corporate and
individual, is no less than
inspired. Prince Harry (Robert
Hardy) glows with congenital
nobility, even when in low com-
pany, and speaks verse elo-
quently. Eric Porter’s King
Henry IV is superbly drawn;
it is a logical extension of his
Bolingbroke of “Richard II,”
modified and wearied by the
trials of kingship and the worries
of paternity. Paul Rogers does
not allow his Falstaff to get out
of hand. He conveys pathos
without seeming to. This, oddly
enough, is the one main part to
be slightly underplayed and
splendid is the result. There are
two notable doubles: John
Neville as a stiff-necked, head-
strong Hotspur and an engag-
ingly flamboyant Pistol; and
Paul Daneman as a sultry Wor-
cester and a chirrupy Shallow.
This latter, though hardly a
natural butt, provides the best
comedy in both plays.
The final curtain, enlivened
by a fanfare, betokens kingly
glories to come. But its effect is
marred by Hal’s churlish dis-
posal of Falstaff. Perhaps Shak-
speare was rushed or tired. He
can hardly have intended that
his shining cavalier should
appear so insupportable a prig.


That | Perplexing Problem!
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in IW*
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
—how will my Estate be administered?
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of
your Will, you obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over
77 years’ specialised experience in the Administration of Estates, and the
assurance that the interests of your legatees will be safeguarded until the
Trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such permanence, security or experience.
Write or call for free booklet getting out the following—
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £971,002.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman);
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme;
©. S. Colman, C.8.E.; 6. D. Young; W. Sydney
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.
Jones;
David Wilson, M.A., 1L.8., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; bir Leslie Morsneaa,
K.8.E., C.M.S., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
of this big and well-
” entrenched organisation dates back
to 1842, when Edward Knox (later Sir
Edward) and some of his friends formed
the Australian Sugar Co. to refine
imported raws at Sydney. In 1855 the
business became the Colonial Sugar
Refining Co., which, after varying
fortunes in its earlier years, prospered
exceedingly, as the following tabulated
history of its capital-account shows:
Cash-paid capital .. .. .. £4,765,000
Bonus-scrip .. .. .. .. 13,175,000
Total £17,940,000
Capital returned .. .. .. 3,900,000
Leaving .. . . .. £14,040,000
Last cash-paid issue was 117,000 new £2O
shares at £27 each in 1950 —first time for
43 years that shareholders had been asked
to assist.
To celebrate its centenary the eo.
added a modest 2\ p.c. bonus to last
term’s 9\ p.c. div., making 12 p.c. for
the year, the final-dividend portion of the
distribution being at the rate of 10 p.c.
p.a. The chairman has warned that the
bonus is not to be taken as an indication
that this class of payment is likely to be
repeated.
Since the war the co. has invested
millions of pounds in expansion of
the undertaking, which has been
widened by the addition of two new sec-
tions, namely, building-materials and
chemicals. Appearances are that the
building - materials division (turnover
£4,167,000 last term) is now earning
reasonable profits. Rut the chemical sec-
tion —C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. and Corbett
Pty.—in which the big Distillers Co.
(Scotland) holds about a 40 p.c. interest,
and which only got into large-scale pro-
duction about three years ago, is still
finding the going ha*d. C.S.R. Chemicals
has renewed its application to the Tariff
Board for assistance in the production
of cellulose-acetate flake, which is sold
to Courtaulds for making rayon-yarns.
The co. has also installed new plant to
manufacture polystyrene, an important
plastics-material, production of which
has begun. Demand for all other chemi-
cal products of the two cos. continues at
a high level, and plant is being extended.
The backbone of the parent co.’s earn-
ings is still sugar. In Australia the co.
refines and sells all but a small fraction
(handled by Millaquin) of the entire sugar
output under Government contract; it
also owns seven of the country’s 34 sugar-
mills, and operates a couple of big
industrial-alcohol distilleries. In Fiji it
operates five mills, and is a grower as
well; and there is a refinery at Auckland
(N.Z.).
Last term sales of sugars and syrups
from the co.’s five Australian refineries
reached 478,000 tons (up 18,000 tons),
and in New Zealand 95,600 tons (down
400 tons) fines were marketed. Produc-
tion of industrial-alcohol and other dis-
tillery products increased, and so did the
outturn of raws from the co.’s Australian
mills:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Australia .. .. 189,245 243,648 255,000
Fiji .. .. 133,645 196,116 133,000
Total .. .. 822,890 439,703 388,000
Drought affected the Fiji figures.
The cautious board was able to write
net earnings £157,958 stronger at
£1,575,901:
Year Replace-
ended ment, etc.,
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
9 p.c.
1951 .. 1,003,402 1,088,100 2,226,249 10,240,907
Share premiums, £273,000 2,499,249
1952 . . 1.154,444 1,158,300 2,495,393 10,983,539
Share premiums, £278,000 2,768,393
From inner res., £3,498,614 6,266,907
1953 . . 1,866,894 1,228,500 6,404,801 11,710,311
1954 . . 1,417,943 1,263,600 6,659,144 12,807,355
12 p.c.
1955 . . 1,575,901 1,684,800 6,450,245 13,949,946
The £1,575,901 of profit claimed —written
after sending £1,142,591 to replacement
and depreciation reserves and making
unstated provisions for taxation and other
contingencies—was 11.2 p.c. on capital as
against 10.1, 10, 8.9, 8.3 and 10.5 p.c.
back to 1950. On total shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined)
the year’s profit was a moderate 4.5 p.c.
Over the last five years £12,357,605 —-
£2,385,420 of it in respect of last term —
has been added to the book-value of
refineries, mills and building-materials
factories, etc.:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £14,040,000 £14,040,000 £14,040,000
Reserves .. 6,404,801 6,559,144 6,450,245
Depreciation re-
serves . . 11,710,311 12,807,355 13,949,946
Creditors, etc. 8,689,530 12,915,732 11,111,462
Overdraft .. 3,147,820
Debentures .. 3,777,100 7,000,000 7,000,000
Employees’
funds* .. 101,919
Employee de-
bentures . . 149,190 160,860 138,670
Final div. .. 631,800 631,800 1,053,000
£48,552,471 £54,104,891 £53,743,323
Refineries, mills,
etc 24,387,669 26,724,652 29,110,072
Ships . . . . 320,120 351,216 446,589
Distilleries . . 939,252 990,718 1,087,673
Premises .. 294,847 . 296,299 318,585
Stocks.. .. 12,541,502 9,509,251 11,075,966
Book debts, etc. 5,188,063 6,565,921 6,489,176
Investments .. 4,856,459 4,788,339 4,828,868
Cash and de-
posits . . 24,469 4,878,495 386,394
£48,552,471 £54,104,891 £58,743,323
* Provident and benefit funds.
To meet the year’s outlay on fixed assets
(up £2,600,034), carry more stocks (up
£1,566,715) and reduce the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc. (down
£1,804,270), the co. drew upon cash, etc.
(down £4,492,101). Toward the close of
accounts in 1953 £3,000,000 of 5 p.c.
debentures were issued.
As for the current term, seasonal pros-
pects in the Australian sugar-industry
are bright, but production of raws might
be reduced by about 9 p.c., owing to
developments in the export market. In
Fiji the outturn is expected to reach
160,000 tons. The demand for building-
materials continues to strengthen, and,
except for cellulose-acetate flake, the
chemical section is above the break-even
line.
The market, which expects the div. to
settle at 10 p.c. for a while, prices the
f.-p. £2O shares at £4l 2s. 6d. as against
£43 a year ago. At the lower figure the
return is 4.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribution.
Net tangible cover, including replace-
ment reserve, is £49 Is. 2d.
Email, Ltd.
BUILT up on the take-over principle,
this big, successful and still-expanding
organisation now consists of parent and
38 subsidiary and associated concerns —
four were added in the last term and four
since the close of accounts. By bringing
under one control a number of under-
takings manufacturing electrical, house-
hold and other equipment, and by a
process of specialisation, the manage-
ment has quickened output, improved the
quality of the products and reduced unit-
costs to the benefit of everybody.
The selling-organisation is Common-
wealth-wide, and products include
electric-power generators, motors, meters
and switchgear, refrigerators, washing-
machines, stoves, heaters and hotwater-
appliances, telephone-equipment, and
petrol and other pumps, etc. Presently
manufacture and distribution of tele-
vision-receivers is to be undertaken. This
will “require considerable capital invest-
ment,” the chairman says, but he gives
no hint as to whether shareholders will
be asked to assist. The co. has taken a
“substantial” share-interest in Amal-
gamated Television Services Pty., which
is to be granted a licence to operate a
television-transmission station at Syd-
ney. These TV activities are not likely to
be quick profit-earners.
Over the last 10 years divs. averaged
9.9 p.c., the rate being steady at 12i p.c.,
with wide margins, for the last five of
them. During the same period £1,062,336
—it brought with it £907,248 of share-
premiums—was added to paid capital,
raising the figure to £1,899,688. And at
December 31 last reserves totalled
£3,828,270, subject to £423,889 by which
the cost of shares in subsidiaries exceeded
their par value. In addition shareholders
could see £1,000,000 of specific reserves,
one half in respect of warranties on
goods sold and the other half for further-
ance of research, etc.
On June 3 last those on the register
were further rewarded with a one-for-
four bonus share-issue. It involved
£525,720, and was charged against
share-premium account. Together with
scrip issued for business taken over since
the books were ruled-off, the gift will
lift paid capital to £2,782,601, of which
£lOO,OOO carries a fixed cumulative 6 p.c.
p.a. Since the pref. div. and 12| p.c. on
that lot will cafl for £218,975 less profit
than was won last term, the 12£ p.c. looks
comfortable enough at the moment.
Though trade in the refrigerator business
threatens to become sticky in the near
future, the co.’s net is so widely spread
that losses in one field might be offset,
or largely offset, by gains in another.
The market looks upon the scrip as a
growth-stock and prices the f.-p. ss.
shares, ex rights, at 14s. 9d. (15s. a year
ago) to give an immediate return of only
4.2 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div. basis. The
prefs. seldom appear on ’Change.
Last term’s net earnings were £50,790
stronger at £560,300. That was after
allowing £427,448 (up £21,049) for
depreciation, something for taxation, and
writing £70,320 off intangibles:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Net r~ Diva. N To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
’52. 6 p.c. 12$ p.c. 218,425 222.420 2,712,839
Share premiums, £123,750 .. "S’S??
Added reserves, £61,565 .. • • 2,898,154
Added intangibles, £115,617 .. ' 1 \
Debenture issue exes., £16,026 2,766,511
’53..509,510 6 p.c. 12$ p.c. 226,836 282,674 3,049,185
Share premiums, £121,591 .. 3,170,7/6
Prom contingencies, £250,000 .. 8.420,776
Added intangibles, £161,702 '' f’fow’Slf
Net additions to reserves, £268,140 . . 3,527,214
’54..560,300 6 p.c. 12$ p.c. 259,244 301,056 3,828,270
* After deducting goodwill, etc., and allowing for
excess cost over par-value shares in subsidiaries.
The pref. div. called for £6OOO, and the
balance of the year’s profit was 30.6 p.c.
on capital as against 28.5, 25.5, 27.3 and
21.9 p.c. back to 1950. That leaves out
of the reckoning the various reserve-
adjustments interlined in the table —the
additions to share-premiums and intan-
gibles relate to businesses taken over;
the £250,000 from contingencies was
not previously disclosed; and of the
£268,140 of sundry net additions,
£146,586 related to capital reserves.
The four businesses acquired during the
year added only £70,676 to share-capital:
Email and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 73^-
Pref .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord.’ .. 1,717,188 1,799,688 1,870,364
Reserves .. 2,712,839 3,049,185 3,828,270
Outside interests 55,207 68,527
Debentures, etc. 354,625 862,832 862,958
Creditors .. 2,844,588 1,833,044 2,315,729
T^c.* Pr ° V1810n : 4,029,330 3,479,204 4,376,642
Inter - co. bal-
ances .. 213,632 ”-
Final divs. .. 127,455 134,977 159,726
£12,154,864 £11,317,457 £13,879,007
Freehold, plant, ,
etc 1,423,575 1,413,359 1,434,941
Stocks .. . . 6,396,389 4,737,753 4,167,443
Debtors’ bal- ___
ances, etc. .. 3,466,776 4.057,383 6,076,192
Cash and de- _
posits .. 868,124 1,071,273 2,056,696
Inter-co. bal- _ „ ,
ances .. 37,689 144,735
£12,154,864 £11,317,457 £13,879,007
* Including service and other provisions.
The growth of £2,018,809 in debtors’
balances, etc., was largely on account of
hire-purchase transactions, now handled
by one of the subsidiaries, and augurs
well for the current year’s earnings. A
better flow of raw materials and comple-
tion of contracts enabled stocks to be
reduced by £570,310. The big holding
of cash, etc., increased by £984,423 net.
The co. will need “large funds” to carry
out its extensive programme of develop-
ment, including manufacture of power-
and distribution-transformers and further
extension of activities in the commercial-
refrigeration field. The provision for
taxation, etc., includes the £1,000,000 of
specific reserves already referred to, but
not previously disclosed.
The businesses taken over (by exchange
of shares) since the books were ruled-off
are Brooks, Robinson, Ltd. (Melbourne),
Aviation Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (Syd-
ney) and Rava Industries, Ltd. (Sydney).
These deals will add £286,517 to share-
capital, and further strengthen the share-
premium account.
Bitumen and Oil Refineries
BOTH shareholders and the manage-
ment have good reason to feel
satisfied with the achievements of this
eight-year-old, for which director and
general-manager E. R. Griffin and the
team he has gathered around him are
entitled to much of the credit.
The co. kicked off in 1946 with a paid
capital of £1,250,000—£500,000 was put
up by California Texas Oil and £750,000
by the Australian public —and a 25-year
contract with California Texas for the
supply of not more than a million barrels
of crude oil annually. The refinery at
Matraville, near Sydney, got into pro-
duction in August, 1948. And, to ensure
an outlet for the bitumen, the business of
California Asphalt Products (Brisbane,
Sydney and Melbourne) was bought and
renamed N. B. Carr Constructions Pty.
Differences which arose with California
Texas in 1950, mainly in connection with
a new long-term contract with Anglo-
Iranian for the supply of whole crude oil
at a saving of about £3 a ton, were amic-
ably settled, and a catalytic reformer
(platformer) unit was installed for the
production of high-grade motor spirit and
aviation gasoline in 1952, and results have
since more than fulfilled expectations.
Output and turnover figures are not
broadcast, but both have stepped up as
additional units of plant have come into
production. A profit of £40,747 was
earned for the year to June 30, 1949 ; the
figure jumped to £231,301 for 1950, and
then advanced by annual steps to
£473,478 last term, when the improvement
was £102,774. A maiden 8 p.c. div. was
paid in 1950, followed by 12| p.c. and
three lots of 15 p.c., with widening
margins:
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
June Profit.* t Dividend serves. serves.t
30, £ £ £ £
Intangibles written off, £40,405 .. 131 643
1950. .231,301 8 p.c. ss 100,000 131,301 j
Intangibles written off, £53,337 .. ? jcc fi co
1951. .233,597 12$p.c.= 156,250 77,347 (
1952. .367,723 15 „ „ 187,500 180,223 \ 335,453
Intangibles written off, £423
1953. .370,704 15 p.c. = 187,500 183,204 518,657
1954. .473,478 15 „ „ 187,500 285,978 804,635
* Adjusted for overprovision of taxation. T Subject
to intangibles, £2857 at 30/6/’64.
The refinery operated continuously at
maximum capacity last term, and “sub-
stantial” tonnages of road-oils and bitu-
men were shipped inter-State and to New
Zealand, and operating costs were
steadier. The £473,478 of profit was
written after allowing £118,496 (up
£10,940) for depreciation and £282,350
(up £19,035) for taxation. It was an
attractive 37.8 p.c. on capital as against
29.6, 29.4, 18.6 and 18.4 p.c. back to 1950.
Money was wanted in the business, so
the div. was kept at 15 p.c. The £285,978
that remained lifted reserves to £804,635,
subject to £2857 of intangibles.
However, on May 4 last shareholders
were doubly rewarded by simultaneous


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages to be gained
by placing your Insurance in the care
of an experienced Firm of Insurance
Brokers and Supervisors.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445.
•'Ov
SLm
j 6
U
k \
u.
his future is
ASSURED!
It costs so little to assure your
child's life, and he can continue
the policy
himself
later on.
Protection
from
Babyhood to Retirement.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
INC. IN Q'IANO I8«S
II
tHB METROPOLITAN BUILDING.
Cnr. Hunfcr and Bligh Shu. Sydnsy
issues of bonus-scrip, and of new
shares for cash. The gift, one
for five, called for £250,000,
provided from a reserve created
by writing-up the book-value
of fixed assets by that amount,
which was only part of the total
surplus disclosed in the revalua-
tion. The cash offer was 500,000
new £1 shares at par, two for
five. The bonus-issue will make
a 15 p.c. div. worth 17.1 p.c.
on cash-paid capital.
The fresh money is wanted to
help pay for the new refinery
just erected at Brisbane. It is
being operated by a wholly-
owned subsidiary, Queensland
Refineries Pty., which has
entered into a long-term arrange-
ment with the Government for
supplies of bitumen and refined
oils. Also further additions are
to be made to the Matraville
refinery to meet, under a 20-
year contract, the oil require-
ments of the recently-formed
Petroleum and Chemical Corp.
(Aust.), Ltd., which has an
issued capital of £1,717,600 in £1
shares, of which this Boral co.
owns 200,000. The additions at
Matraville will also include
equipment for catalytic desul-
phurisation of diesel oils, for
which there is a growing
demand. It all adds up to con-
solidation of the co.’s position
in a market which promises to
become very competitive in the
not-too-distant future.
The financial structure is
sound, and movements in
balance-sheet figures are
encouraging:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Surplus . . . . 461,360 804,635
Debentures .. 500,000 500,000
Creditors . . .. 863,809 797,472
Tax provision .. 263,315 284,350
Final div. .. 93,750 93,750
£3,432,234 £3,730,207
Land, refinery, etc. 1,460,495 1,421,552
Shares .. .. 100,000
Stocks .. .. 784,715 637,902
Debtors .. .. 627,647 736,392
Cash, etc. .. 559,377 831,504
Intangibles .. 2,857
£3,432,234 £3,730,207
New capital projects, etc., will
call for part of the large cash-
holding (up £272,127) as well as
the £500,000 of fresh cash-paid
capital.
The two new share-issues will
lift paid capital to £2,000,000,
on which 15 p.c. will call for
£300,000, or £173,478 less profit
than was earned last term. So the
15 p.c. div. is in no immediate
danger. The f.-p. £1 shares,
which sold at 565. ex rights on
May 18, recently fetched 575. 6d.
to return 5.2 p.c. on a 15 p.c. dis-
tribution. Including the new
issues, net tangible cover is 28s.
Moina Tungsten-Tin
Early operations of Moina,
which took over the old S. hnd
W. mine at Moina (Tas.), have
failed to come up to prospectus
estimates, and the price of the
co.’s f.-p. ss. shares fell sharply
from ss. 6d. a couple of months
ago to 3s. following publication
of the directors’ report and
statement of accounts.
Chief troubles are smaller-
than-expected recovery of con-
centrates, lower ratio of tin to
wolfram, and depletion of
finances.
First unit of the mill started
up in Feb., 1955, and by the
end of March 1800 tons ore had
been treated for three tons clean
wolfram concentrates, six tons
mixed concentrates and three
tons tin concentrates. Recovery
of concentrates was about 0.7
p.c. Prospectus estimates were
1.8 p.c. concentrates and a tin-to-
wolfram ratio of two to one. Re-
sults since the close of accounts
have given no promise of sub-
stantial improvement; so present
ore reserves (23,000 tons) are to
be investigated to determine aver-
age grade. Mill throughput, now
200 tons ore a week, is to be
stepped up to 400 tons a week.
A parcel of 10 tons wolfram
concentrates was sold in April
for £ll,OOO. Some problems con-
nected with separation have yet
to be solved, and additions are
being made to the mill for treat-
ment of jig-middlings, now being
stockpiled, and for production
of saleable tin. i
When the books closed,
delivery of £14,500-worth of
plant was awaited. There was
£7177 coming to creditors, etc.,
and £14,727 was held in cash
and deposits. The mine figured
at £55,996, plant, buildings,
development, stores, etc.,
£178,509, and .preliminary exes.
£7905. Capital expenditure ex-
ceeded estimates owing to
increased cost of labor, materials
and delays in delivery. Paid
capital is £249,960 in f.-p. ss.
shares.
Much will depend upon
whether the ratio of concentrates
and proportion of tin to wol-
fram improve with depth.
Arrangements to sink the shaft
a further 150 ft. to No. 4 level
are well advanced, but the
work is held up by lack of funds,
and development is being
hampered for the same reason.
The board is considering an
issue of 300,000 new ss. shares,
and proposes to ask the bank for
a loan of £lO,OOO meanwhile.
The London spot price of tin
has been remarkably steady at
satfcfactory figures for the last
18 months. For most of this
period it has remained between
£S7OO and £S7SO per ton, though
on occasions it has broken
through the upper and the lower
lines. Average price for the
calendar year J 954 was £S7I9,
as against £S73O for 1953 and
£5965 for 1952. The figure for
January, 1955, was £5693, and
the average for the next three
months £S7IS, and on June 14
£S72B. The lengthy period
above £S7OO per ton has turned
dividends of many producing
cos. upwards following the set-
back which occurred after the
lush years 1951-52, when
£SIOOO per ton was surpassed
on many occasions. However,
the uncertainty caused by events
in South-East Asia has
frightened off some buyers in
the sharemarket who might
otherwise have been attracted
by the generous yields offering.
Also there is the uncertainty of
how things may work out when
the international tin scheme
comes into force —uncertainties
which have been prolonged by
the delays in launching the
scheme, which is still nowhere
near under way.
VICKERS LIMITED
A YEAR OF MAJOR ACHIEVEMENT
Viscount's Entry Into U.S. Civil Aircraft Market
Progress Of Group's Widespread Ramifications
Lt.-Gen. Sir Ronald Weeks On Essentials For Further Expansion
The 88th annual general meeting of
Vickers Limited was held on May 27 in
London, England.
Lt.-General Sir Ronald M. Weeks,
K.C.8., C.8.E., D. 5.0., M.C., T.D. (the
Chairman), presided, and in the course
of his speech said:
Some three weeks ago you received
the Directors’ Report and Accounts, to-
gether with the Chairman’s Review, which
give a factual account of some of the
highlights of our operations in 1954.
This time last year I expressed the
view that, unless some unforeseen factor
should arise, 1954 should show an im-
provement on 1953.
In the year now under review, as I
will endeavour to explain in the course
of this statement, we have done very
well in most departments.
It has been an exciting year, a year in
which we have been honoured by the
visit of Her Majesty The Queen and
H.R.H. The Duke of Edinburgh to the
English Steel Corporation Works at
Sheffield, by the visit of H.R.H. The
Princess Margaret to Barrow and by the
visit of H.R.H. The Duchess of Kent to
the Naval Yard at Newcastle.
Other matters of exceptional interest
have been the re-purchase with our
friends, Cammell Laird & Co. Ltd., of
the equity in English Steel Corporation
from the Iron & Steel Holding & Reali-
sation Agency; the continued success of
the Viscount, in particular the contract
to deliver 60 of these aircraft to Capital
Airlines; the delivery of production
Valiant bombers to the R.A.F.; and the
successful response from our Stockholders
to the offer of some new Ordinary Stock
and £6m. of Loan Stock.
Stockholders will be interested, in
view of the wide ramifications of our
business, as to how bur activities work
out in terms of turnover. For 1954 Ship-
building and Ship Repairing accounted
for 19%, Aircraft 20%, Steel 25%, and
the balance of 36% is due to Engineering.
These percentages are approximate, and
do not include our proportion of Metro-
politan-Cammell.
Defence Programme
Throughout the Works of the Group
the volume of armament work was gener-
ally maintained at the level obtaining
during the previous year.
The changing nature of the equipment
required by the Forces has had the in-
evitable effect of reducing the demand on
some Works, or Departments of Works,
engaged in the production of traditional
armaments. The effect of this has been
counteracted by a requirement for equip-
ments of a nature not previously pro-
duced within the Group.
During the year, the development and
production of Naval Gun Mountings con-
tinued at Barrow and at Elswick, where
Guns and Gun Mountings were also pro-
duced or repaired for the Army. Pro-
duction of Centurion Tanks and Armoured
Recovery Vehicles has proceeded, and on
the 31st March a contract was signed for
the delivery of 100 of these Tanks to
the Swiss Government.
On Feb. 25, 1965, H.M. Submarine
“Excalibur,” a sister ship of “Explorer,”
was launched at Barrow by Lady Mason,
wife of Vice-Admiral Sir Frank Mason,
Engineer-in-Chief of the Fleet.
On April 4, 1955, the frigate “Scar-
borough” was launched at the Naval
Yard by the Countess of Scarbrough.
The Works at Weybridge have been
fully occupied by the production of the
Valiant, which is now proceeding
steadily and up to programme. Squad-
rons are being formed and a substantial
flow of this, the first V-Bomber, into
Bomber Command is taking place.
At our Supermarine Works the twin
jet Naval Fighter is going ahead and
much development flying has been carried
out in aid of the general development
of the type.
Construction of the prototype of the
V.lOOO Military Transport is well under
way, and a production order for a batch
of these aircraft, which we received
during the year, is in hand.
The Guided Weapons team is continu-
ing the development programme laid down
by the Ministry of Supply, and the
Trials Teams at Salisbury and Woomera
in Australia have continued their work
of testing the products Of the Guided
Weapons Section.
Commercial Activities
(A) Vickers-Armstrongs.
Orders for heavy engineering products
were well maintained throughout 1954:
during the latter part of that year and
during 1955 to date there has been a
considerable increase in the volume of
orders received.
During 1954 six merchant ships were
launched from the Vickers-Armstrongs’
Shipyards at Newcastle and Barrow
where, in the same period, nine ships
were completed, including the Orient
liner “Orsova,” the “City of Durban,” t.he
fourth of a class of four ships for Eller-
man Lines, cargo liners for Furness
Withy, Alfred Holt and Shaw Savill &
Albion, also four large Tankers.
Towards the end of 1954 enquiries for
new building, which had been at a low
level for some considerable time, showed
an improvement, and since the beginning
of this year we have received orders for
several ships, including two cargo liners
for Furness Withy and two destroyers for
the Chilean Navy,
The Viscounts delivered for service now
total 55, and they have flown 84,000
hours, or 25 million miles.
The order book to-day for signed con-
tracts exceeds 200; this figure includes
the aircraft already delivered, also 22
802 s for B.E.A. On the 4th April,
T.C.A. commenced a regular service
from Toronto to New York. That the
first turbine engined aircraft to operate
a regular service into that city should
be a British aircraft is an event of which
we may well be proud.
On the 17th May the first Viscount for
Capital Airlines was handed over at
Wisley at a delightful ceremony at
which H.E. The American Ambassador
was present; this machine will fly to
America in early June.
(B) Other subsidiaries and Metropolitan-
Cammell.
The sales of Oldings were well main-
tained during 1954, and the first quarter
of 1955 shows a substantial increase over
the corresponding period of 1954.
Bobys have recently secured an im-
portant order from Bass Ratcliff and
Gretton for drum maltings.
The volume of orders received by
George Mann & Co. since the Ist January,
1955, has reached a record figure.
During 1954 Metropolitan-Cammell re-
ceived an order for 72 diesel traction
railcars, the first for vehicles of this
type to be placed with a private con-
tractor by British Railways under their
new programme for the introduction of
diesel electric traction engines in the
United Kingdom. Early this year this
order was increased by 339 additional
diesel railcars.
A five-year contract for the supply of
wagons to British Railways has been
extended recently by 4,000 additional
wagons, and British Railways have
ordered from Metropolitan-Cammell no
less than 456 main line coaches as a
prelude to their important plan for
modernisation.
(C) Exports and Overseas Interests.
Exports of United Kingdom Companies
in the Group, including English Steel
Corporation and our Associated Com-
pany, Metropolitan-Cammell, accounted
for 23% of our total turnover in 1954.
The lastnamed Company received im-
portant contracts, including one for 94
diesel electric locos for the Irish State
Transport, which are being built in
conjunction with Metropolitan-Vickers.
In addition, and again with our friends,
Metropolitan-Vickers, they are engaged
on orders for coaches for the electrified
services of the railways of Brazil.
Another valuable order, worth some
three million dollars, was placed with
Metropolitan-Cammell under the U.S.A.
Foreign Aid Programme for 2,000 wagons
for the Indian Government Railways, and
since the year end, this order has been
extended by 1,215 additional wagons,
making the total value of this one con-
tract a figure of over five million dollars.
Whilst the greater volume of orders
secured for British Clearing Presses was
for the Home Market, we have secured im-
portant business in a number of Overseas
territories, notably Sweden and Aus-
tralia. The value of orders so obtained
amounted to some £BOO,OOO.
Fifty per cent, of the orders for
George Mann offset machines were for
the overseas market, including the U.S.A.
and Canada.
Ninety per cent, of the orders for
Kelly Vickers letterpresses manufactured
at Elswick and Crayford are for export,
again chiefly for the U.S.A.
Four of your Directors have visited
Australia since the last Annual Meeting,
and I am glad to report on the virility
and progress of our three subsidiaries in
that Dominion.
Many valuable tools have been installed
at Cockatoo Docks & Engineering Co.;
the plant is highly efficient, the relations
with the Australian Government are good,
and particular attention is being devoted
to the training of young men.
Vickers Ruwolt is somewhat limited
in output due to the scarcity of labour,
but sales have been good, and we are
planning extensions in plant and buildings.
Vickers-Armstrongs (Australia) fills the
dual role of looking after the provisioning
of spares for Viscounts for Australian
Airlines and of carrying out Guided
Weapons tests at Salisbury and Woomera.
English Steel Corporation Ltd.
At the end of last year the Corporation
reorganised its activities so that its
various branches of business could be car-,
ried on by separate Subsidiary Companies,
and, like Vickers-Armstrongs, English
Steel Corporation becomes a Holding Com-
pany. The details are set out in the
chart contained on page two of the
Directors’ Report and Accounts.
English Steel had a satisfactory year
and has a good order book for 1955.
Accounts
These show a considerable amount of
change owing to the alterations in the
capital structure of the Company and
also to the fact that the Accounts of
English Steel Corporation and Oldings are
now embodied in the Consolidated
Accounts.
The Authorised Capital was, in June
last, increased to £4sm. by the creation
of 184 m. new Ordinary Shares of £1 each.
At the same time a scrip issue was made
of one new Ordinary Share for each £1
of Ordinary Stock then held. This was
followed in August by a cash issue
of 3,078,871 Ordinary Shares of £1
each, at 275. 6d. per Share, as a Rights
issue to the holders of the Ordinary
Stock, and an issue of £6m. 4% Un-
secured Loan Stock at 984- Both of these
issues were highly successful.
Your Board have recommended an in-
crease of 1% in the gross dividend for
1954, making a total of BJ% for the
year; this is justified on the results of
the year, as well as on prospects.
Powers-Samas Accounting
Machines Limited
The Accounts of this Company have
already been issued for 1954 and speak
for themselves, but you will expect me
to make some comment on the fact that
we have recently offered to purchase the
shares of this Company which are held
by the public.
It is not easy for a Parent Company
to assess the value of a minority hold-
ing, and we thought it wise to call in
the services of an independent authority
to advise on what, in all the circum-
stances, could be regarded as a fair
price to offer.
Tn my opinion both Vickers and
Powers-Samas can be regarded as
“growth” companies.
The acquisition of all the remaining
Powers-Samas shares will facilitate co-
operation in production and will un-
doubtedly facilitate the provision of
large sums required for the Powers-
Samas production and rental sales pro-
gramme for the next few years.
For your Company 1955 ought to be
a reasonably good year.
The Aircraft programme is gaining
momentum, but this particular section of
our activity can be subject to crises at
any time, but it is undoubtedly true that
in the Viscount we have a short/medium
range aircraft for which there is no com-
parable substitute.
The Viscount and the Valiant will
keep Weybridge and Hurn fully occupied
in 1955 and 1956, and probably longer.
Production of the V.lOOO is commenc-
ing ; a prototype should fly in 1966, and
it is possible to follow this in due
course with a civil version which could
provide the fast non-stop trans-Atlantic
service which the future will demand.
It seems clear that the American aircraft
industry will produce one or more air-
craft in this class in their bid to retain
their hold on the long range civil market.
The Shipyards of Vickers-Armstrongs
are still fully booked for some time
ahead, though there is not the heavy
block of forward orders which existed
some years ago.
The Railway programmes, both at
home and abroad, and the Motor Industry
should ensure a busy year for Metro-
politan-Cammell Carriage & Wagon Co.,
for many E.S.C. products and for the
Newcastle Works engaged on British
Clearing Presses.
Engineering products constitute our
largest item of sales, and ''prospects are
reasonably bright.
Some customers are apt to assume that
we tend to offer some engineering pro-
ducts on an “In and Out” basis: i.e., that
we only accept orders when it suits us;
two examples are cement-making plant
and heavy presses for the printing of
newspapers.
I should like to contradict any such
impression and to confirm that, except
for a war emergency, we are always
trying to improve and develop all the
engineering commercial products that we
are now manufacturing.
The results of 1954, and future pros-
pects, have depended and will continue
to depend, on heavy capital expenditure,
modern tools and wise direction, but the
most vital factor is that expenditure and
direction should be backed up by loyal,
hard-working and intelligent men and
women on the shop floor and in the offices.
It is to these men and women and all
our management and agents at Home and
Abroad that I would like to convey the
thanks of the Stockholders and the Board
for the past year’s results.
In previous years I have expressed this
appreciation at the beginning of my
speech ; on this occasion I am expressing
it at the end to emphasise how much
our future prosperity depends on good
team-work at all levels.
The report and accounts were adopted
and the proceedings terminated with a
vote of thanks to the Chairman, Directors
and Staff, which was carried with accla-
mation.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
For the first time since he became
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks dined at
Janet Clarke Hall, University. He accom-
panied Lady Brooks, official visitor to
this annual dinner. Decorations included
heath on the tables and Trinity colors of
red, green and white. Students wore
formal evening-gowns. At the “high
table” with the vice-regal couple were the
principal, Miss Mary Bagnall, and the
senior student, Deidre Hyde (daughter of
Lady Hyde and the late Admiral Sir F.
Hyde), members of the students com-
mittee (Miss Katherine Neal, Miss Fairlie
Rathjen), a graduate (Miss Janet Ballan-
tyne) and the student-librarian (Miss
June Lilley).
☆ ☆ ☆
An innovation at the premiere of
Puccini’s “Turandot” was the dress-circle
foyer display of original designs by Mario
Pompei, of Rome, of the Chinese robes
and costumes worn in the opera.
Conchita Flores sang the title-role and
Gabriella Tucci that of the slave-girl.
Conchita wore two dazzling outfits, the
first of ice-blue slipper-satin embroidered
with gold-thread and sequins, a long
matching chiffon train and gold lame
headdress ; and, in the final act, white
chiffon with an overskirt of silver lace,
a long train of gold satin embroidered
with sequins, and a tall gold-sequin head-
dress finished with long peacock-feathers.
In the audience were the Lady Mayoress
(Mrs. F. P. Selleck), in silver-grey gown
and a cape-stole of matching grey Arctic-
fox ; Mrs. W. Cass, whose black brocade
full-length fitted-coat had a high collar
lined with red shot-taffeta ; Mrs. Humph-
rey Clegg, whose flowing cape of mid-
night-blue velvet was notable; Mrs.
Royden Honeyman, her short frock of
white faille trimmed with gold sequins ;
Mrs. Constance Day, in black taffeta and
fur wrap of grey-fox; Mrs. Frank Lee,
who covered her short black frock with
a Chinese shawl of black silk embroidered
with white lotus-flowers.
Mrs. T. G. Pizzey wore a short sage-
green suede jacket edged with white-fox
over her short black frock. A white-mink
stole covered the strapless sheath-frock
of white-and-gold brocade worn by Mrs.
Gladys Myer. Elizabetta Barbato
achieved contrast for her mink-trimmed
black Persian-lamb coat with a flat pill-
box of brilliant-red velvet.
☆ ☆ ☆
Over 100 guests attended the cocktail-
party and mannequin-parade organised
for the building-fund by the wives of the
medical staff at Prince Henry’s Hospital.
It was held at the Toorak home of Dr.
and Mrs. Hamley Wilson, which was
beautifully decorated with pastel-colored
stocks and violets. The auxiliary was
headed by Mrs. Geoffrey Newman
Morris ; Mrs. D. Donald was responsible
for collecting the clothes in the parade,
and this was compered by Mrs. James
Buchanan.
☆ ☆ ☆
Captain R. A. Macpherson, U.S. Naval-
Attache, and his wife will soon return
to the U.S. with their family. The latest
of many dinner-parties given in their
honor was that by U.S. Army-Attache
Col. Walker Milner and Mrs. Milner at
their Toorak home. The hostess chose
a navy tweed dinner-frock which had a
scoop-neckline and a slightly-flared skirt.
V q. V
The women’s committee of the Univer-
sity Centenary Appeal has adopted
foreign-cooking demonstrations as fund-
gatherers. The first will be held at the
Gas Corporation’s premises, 196 Flinders-
street, at 2 p.m. on June 27, when Maria
Kozslik Donovan v/ill demonstrate the
cooking of a French meal. There will
follow Chinese cooking by Roy Gee
Choun on July 11, Italian dishes by
Claudio Magris on July 25, and American
cooking by Norma Findlay on August 8.
Entry-cards, which will cost 55., may be
obtained from Mrs. Arnold Richardson
(BJ 1112) and Mrs. G. Davis-Goff
(BM 1181).
☆ ☆ ☆
Cyrus Townsend Brady has an exhibi-
tion of photographs at the Public Library
called “Men of One Mind”; it comes
fresh from showings in New York and
Philadelphia. Photography, travel and
anthropology are Mr. Brady’s chief
interests.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Iris Clarke, public-relations officer
and funds-organiser for Opportunity
Clubs, was hostess at a luncheon given to
members of the press and presidents of
four committees working for the clubs.
Mrs. Clarke proved that, as well as her
ability to raise funds, she is an excellent
after-luncheon speaker. Mrs. Leo Curtis,
who is president of the committee arrang-
ing the Black and White dinner-dance on
July 5, and whose committee recently
raised £9OO in four hours with a sale of
used clothing, was present in a suit of
mole-toned wool with a deep roll-collar
of blue fox-fur and tiny matching cap of
mole velor. John Barret, president of the
young committee which organises the
annual Wool Ball for Opportunity Clubs,
and Mrs. G. Kimpton and Mrs. L.
Hawkins, guests, were thanked for their
work.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sponsored by the furniture-industry,
Mrs. John Morgan, of Essendon, is an
entrant in Victoria’s Loveliest Mother
Quest, being held to raise funds for
Prince Henry’s Hospital building-appeal.
A brunette with two children, Mrs.
Morgan is an Old Girl of the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College and before her marriage
was a ballet-dancer. John Warlow photo.
Dr. A. E. (“Changi”) Coates (who is
now Sir Albert; he was knighted for his
fine work among p.-0.-w.), with Lady
Coates, held open-house during the week
in their Toorak home from mid-morning
until dark. All day the house was
thronged with well-wishers, who included
hundreds of Sir Albert’s students when
he was Professor of Anatomy at the
University.
sr ☆ ☆
Melbourne Grammar School Chapel
was decorated with yellow and white
flowers for the wedding of Rosemary,
eldest daughter of Dr. and Mrs. W. D.
Upjohn, of Kooyong, and John, eldest
son of Mr. and Mrs. L. S. Gough, of
Toorak. The bride’s magnolia-brocaded
shantung gown was made with a long-
sleeved V-necked bodice and very full
skirt which featured a quilted hemline.
The long veil was held with a double-
rouleaux of shantung, and she carried a
spray of gardenias. Eve King, the bride’s
sister June and the ’groom’s sister Ann
were bridesmaids. Their ballerina frocks
were of magnolia-brocaded shantung and
they wore matching coronets trimmed
with gardenias ; they also carried sprays
of gardenias. Briap Harrod was best man
and groomsmen were Peter Gough and
Geoffrey Rickards. Reception was at
No. 9 Darling-street.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Hon. Simon Warrender and Mrs.
Warrender, of Toorak, have received many
congratulations on the birth of their first
son —they have two small daughters. He
will be named Alexander Victor, after his
father’s godfather, Field-Marshal Lord
Alexander and his grandfather, Lord
Bruntisfield. The Hon. Simon Warrender
is president of the Edinburgh Club, a
group of energetic young people who
work hard for the Prince Henry’s Hospi-
tal. His wife is also a member.
SYDNEY
Signs and portents of Sydney’s gradua-
tion into the “big-city” class grew
stronger during the week, when plans
appeared for a skyscraper in Kent-street,
20 stories high (“about as high as a build-
ing ought to go! ”), and there was serious
and substantial talk of running a heli-
copter-service to Manly, suggested land-
ing-place the top of the Carlton Hotel,
12s. per trip and multiple-hiring allowed.
Meanwhile, Sydney people picked their
way through the puddles, or dashed
uncaringly through them, to visit sunny
Italy, being featured at David Jones’
three stores. The price of tea came
down Is. 2id., so providing a ray of sun-
shine. The Dargie picture of the Queen
was on show at the National Gallery, but
many postponed seeing it till this week
because in the rain the Gallery seems
even more remote than at other times —
and, you never know, the weather might
improve.
☆ & ☆
There were some dances of note. At
the University Settlement Ball 49
debutantes made their bow to the Gover-
nor, Sir John Northcott, in the Great
Hall, escorted by fellow-undergraduates
in academic dress and presented by Mrs.
S. H. Roberts, wife of the Vice-
Chancellor.
After their waltz the debs formed a really
beautiful guard-of-honor for his Excel-
lency and the official party, who were
then piped to the Union Refectory by
the University Regiment Pipe Band. One
couldn’t help thinking of Sylphides,
moon-moths, etc., as the debs, followed
through the misty night, their white
dresses glimmering against ivy-covered
walls and silhouetted trees.
Everything was excellently organised
at the ball; even the slight contretemps
of the music for the fanfare going
missing was overcome by Mr. Peter
Platt, University lecturer in music,
who calmly composed a special fanfare
for the occasion.
The Chancellor, Sir Charles Blackburn,
and the president of the Settlement, Dr.
F. Arnott, welcomed the guests with Mrs
J. Macdonald Holmes, chairman of the
ball-committee, who was accompanied
by Professor Macdonald Holmes. Mr.
and Mrs. Russell Nash (she later cut the
debutantes’ cake) and Miss Sheila Collett
were among the official guests, who also
included Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Hazlitt,
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Fischer, Dr. and Mrs.
Tom Bateman (she decorated the official
table with camellias and apples), Mr.
and Mrs. H. F. Benning, Mr. and Mrs.
Alexis Albert, and Professor and Mrs.
P. D. F. Murray.
Belinda Parry Okeden, second daughter
of the Richard Parry Okedens, of Darling
Point, will marry lan Willmore, of Rose
Bay, at St. Marks, Darling Point, on
July 8. Belinda will have Georgina
Wardell and Judy Valentine for her
bridesmaids and after the ceremony a
reception for 150 guests will be held at
her parents’ home. Photo by Dayne.
The Winter Dance of the United
Service Institution was held at Victoria
Barracks on Friday. The hall looked
warm and welcoming with its colored
fairy-lights, banks of flowers and large
emblems in the shape of a golden crown
and an Australian rising-sun. President
for this year, Lieut.-General E. W. Wood-
ward, with Mrs. Woodward (whose slim
satin dress was patterned in an autumn-
leaf design), received the 350 guests.
Noted there were Rear-Admiral and Mrs.
Buchanan, Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs.
A. L. Walters, Rear-Admiral H. A.
Showers and Mrs. Showers, Brigadier
Denzil Macarthur-Onslow and Mrs.
Macarthur-Onslow, Major and Mrs.
Keith Morris, Colonel R. W. Savage
(who is secretary of the U. 5.1.) and
Miss M. Southwell-Keely, wearing a
lovely dress of white tulle with a crystal
embroidered bodice.
•k ☆ ☆
Mrs. W. H. Oong, president of the
Dragon Festival Ball, held at the Troca-
dero during the week, was also president
of the first Dragon Festival Ball held in
Sydney 19 years ago. This is a ball with
a distinctive atmosphere, with the dress-
ing enriched by the many beautiful
Chinese silk coats and dresses (including
two traditional Chinese wedding-garments
worn by ushers to the 14 debutantes) and
by the decorations, which this year fea-
tured green dragons sliding round the
bandstand, red ceremonial gates and
masses of peach- and plum-blossom.
'Mrs. Oong, whose sheath-dress was of
pale-blue braided Chantilly lace, enter-
tained a large official party which in-
cluded the Consul-General for China, Dr.
S. H. Sih, and Mrs. Sih (who received the
debs). The ball was organised by the
Young Chinese Relief Movement and
proceeds will aid the Adult Deaf and
Dumb Society, the United Nations Chil-
dren’s Fund and the Chinese War
Orphans’ Fund. There were 1350 guests
at the ball.
☆ ☆ ☆
The flower arrangements of Mrs. E. G.
Waterhouse being so famous and admired,
it was not surprising to find that her
talk on the use of driftwood and dried
material generally at the at-home
given by the Ladies’ Auxiliary of the
Royal Empire Society was particularly
fascinating. This is the first time Mrs.
Waterhouse has given a talk on this
subject and shown all her lovely pieces,
and she set her listeners a new line of
thought about the decorative uses of
dried seed-pods, locust-shells, mountain-
devils, little pieces of fungus, etc. Guest-
of-honor at the at-home was Mrs.
Garnet Halloran, who was received by
Miss Margaret Gillespie and Mrs. A. L.
Walters. Mrs. J. C. Windeyer expressed
the thanks of the gathering for a most
illuminating talk and demonstration.
☆ ☆ ☆
Melbourne’s Symphony Orchestra con-
ductor Walter Susskind came along to the
Bartok Society’s meeting last week to
give a talk on contemporary composers
and to play his recording of Bartok’s
opera “Bluebeard’s Castle,” which pro-
vided a very interesting experience for
the hundred or so members of the society
who were present in the A.B.C.’s
theatrette. Mr. Ernest Llewellyn, concert-
master for Sydney’s Symphony Orchestra,
spoke on the treatment of folk-music by
contemporary composers and illustrated
his talk with violin solos. Miss Nancy
Salas, who, by the way, has just been
appointed to the staff of the Conserva-
torium, is president of the society, which
she says is growing rapidly in numbers
and enthusiasm.
☆ ☆ ☆
The parade of Italian fashions was fun,
especially where the beach-clothes were
concerned, the frivolous gaiety which
seems to be the Italian designers’ special
gift being most appropriate here. For
evening-wear the dresses were over-
dramatised and theatrical, but on the
beach one can look like a pierrot or a
comic gondolier or a sailor out of “Pina-
fore” and be considered quite chic.
Slacks, so-called, are tighter and shorter
than ever (well above the ankle-bone
now); beach-hats either descend in
tangled strands right over the eyes or
perch smartly, though rather uselessly,
on top of the head like Dick Whitting-
ton’s cap. Tangerine and stripes and
jersey and straw (the last cleverly
crocheted into medallions or combined
with taffeta) are most prominent, and
for skiing, to be ahead of the fashion,
ond should wear a cap like a medieval
executioner’s.
☆ ☆ ☆
Off on an island cruise on the
Himalaya on Saturday were Mr. H. R.
Munro, Mr. and Mrs. H. Gordon Munro
of Keera, Bingara, and Mr. and Mrs.
P. A. Yeomans. Since the publication of
The Keyline Plan last year Mr. and
Mrs. Yeomans have had many overseas
and inter-State visitors at their North
Richmond properties—Nevallan and
Yobamie —to see the plan in operation.
The usual Sunday inspections and dis-
cussions will be resumed when they return
from the cruise
☆ ☆ ☆
“N.A.8.”: A woman beloved of
thousands of schoolgirls and others whose
schooldays have long since passed died
at her home at Chatswood (Sydney) the
other day. She was Miss Martha Furer,
affectionately known to thousands as
“Mademoiselle.” Miss Furer, Swiss-
born, came to Australia in 1885 to
become French-mistress at a Rockhamp-
ton (Q.) school. Later she taught in
Cairns, Brisbane and Sydney. Her last
school was Hornsby Girls’ High. For
years after she retired “Mademoiselle”
gave instruction in French at her home
to legions of pupils, and it was her proud
claim that her girls invariably topped the
State passes in oral French. She was 85
at the end.


LOST
Lost along Warren-Nevertire Road,
Monday, 6th June,
Blue-roan Cocker Spaniel Dog.
Answers to “Floppy.” Wearing
collar with “Alma, Booligal” faintly
scratched on name-plate. Special
pet. Big reward for any information
leading to whereabouts.
Contact KNIGHT,
“Egelabra,” Warren, N.S.W.
Phone Warren 10 or JJ3IOO.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JIM CLARKE Of Sydney.— TAKE
NOTICE that RON LESLIE WILSON has
filed a Petition for Divorce from his wife
LILLIAN JOYCE WILSON No. 686 of
1954 on the ground of adultery and
naming you as one of the Co-Respondents.
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 26th day of August 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from HENRY WILSHIRE WEBB, Soli-
?jj®r, 4. Castlereagh Street, Sydney.— J.
DOUQHAN, Registrar.
FOR GENUINE ART COLLECTORS
A choice from a lifetime collection of
BABE ENGBAVINGS AND ETCHINGS
A set of 60 engravings by J. W. M. Turner (£5000). 1500 individual
copies from £l to £lOO.
Write MAX ENKHABDT, 28 Windsor Ave., McKinnon, S.E. 14, Vic.
(All enquiries will be faithfully acknowledged.)
f'Ciith in the
Future
m
mm
HONOLULU.—How swiftly the wings of
flight can bring us. X am writing this in Hawaii,
on my way to the United States and Canada.
And only days before my departure—hours,
it seems, by memory’s measure—I was in the centre
of Australia; on one of our properties near Alice
Springs.
It was an experience, taking over the
adjoining property, Henbury, bringing the total
area to 4,400 square miles—the largest in Central
Australia, with its 15,000 head of well-bred
Shorthorns.
The thought of it crowds now into the
mingling scene that is Honolulu.
Here in a modem beach hotel that is the last
word in press-button service, my mind turns
fondly to the 80-year-old Henbury homestead,
serene at the side of the Finke River, with a range
of august mountains behind . . .
That constant river runs through the property
from end to end. And at the Finke Crossing a
sign-post proclaims it as, marking the heart of the
continent: “1000 miles to Darwin, 1000 miles to
Adelaide” ...
Soft Hawaiian music whispers in through the
window—and my mind goes back to another
people; to the corroboree that the aborigines on
the property gave in my honour; to their chant, to
the ritual surrounding a race whose culture was
old before Australia was young . . .
A waiter brings my meal—and I remember
the joy that a scrambled emu-egg for breakfast
gave me that morning at the homestead . . .
Is it nostalgia creeping in, as it must at times
to everyone who is called upon to travel out from
home?
This time I think it is something more. One
gets to sense—to taste and to love—the things that
make Australia.
And they are there at Henbuiy, with its cattle
and its waters that have never been known to dry.
That is why my thoughts go back: It is a figure
of the whole solid future that is rising out of the
Australian land.
// flcisfu^g
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Art from Italy
There is no doubt you need to
stay in Sydney to be properly
educated in the world’s art.
For there one was, tramping
miles through Rome, up to the
Villa Borghese to watch the
priest fall off his motorbike into
one’s sandwiches, and to inspect
the superb cool nude by Correg-
gio ; down to the Nationaal
Gallery to see Holbein’s Henry
the Eighth, the incarnation of
princely wickedness ; out to the
Vatican to watch the Pope come
out his high window like a figure
out of a clock and bless the
kneeling people in the piazza,
and to wonder whether —except
in spots one really liked
the Last Judgment: and never
once encountered the paintings
of Signors Chirico, Campigli,
Dario Cecchi, Lorenzo Indrimi
and all the rest of the contemp-
orary Italians which you can see
simply by taking the lift in David
Jones’.
The only two living Italian
painters one did meet —a girl in
Rome who was recommended by
Professor Mareo Praz and who
painted landscapes and still-lifes
about the standard of those you
would see at the Macquarie Gal-
leries in Sydney ; and Rosai, of
Florence, who was recommended
by the director of the Uffizi, and
who, near the wonderful green
gardens of the Piazzale Michel-
angelo, painted everything under
the sun from futuristic things
with bits of newspapers stuck on
them to straightforward satiric
portraits, all in a wonderful
murk of oil-paint and cigarette-
butts—are not at David Jones’;
so at least one can complain
that the exhibition is not fully
representative.
As indeed it isn’t. But at least
it is rewarding, amongst a ragged
lot of surrealist sketches and
stray dabs of watercolor —not
forgetting the strange montages
of mud and concrete by Alberto
Burri, who is described as “the
most disconcerting of Italian
abstractionists,” as well he might
be—to be confronted with the
great white whiskery cat of
Colombotto Rosso and the even
more striking golden cat with
golden eyes in the arms of
Antero Piletti’s “Baby King with
Cat.” There is also an excellent
little black-and-white by Fab-
rizio Clerici, “Remembrance of
Edgar Allan Poe.”
❖ <s>
And So to China
But, gatto or ho gat to (pardon
these souvenirs of travel), it is
not merely like crossing a couple
of continents and slipping
through many stormy centuries,
but like passing into another
world altogether to move from
David Jones’ to the exhibition of
2000 years of Chinese painting
which the N. S. Wales National
Gallery has on loan from
Unesco: into the true and im-
mortal world of art, luminous,
tranquil and masterly in crafts-
manship.
The exhibition cannot be more
than a fragment of the art of
China, and much of it is poorly
chosen, but the journey through
time and space is very well worth
making for such things as the
soft pinks and browns in Jen
Jen Fa’s “Horses Feeding” (13th
century), the wit of Liang K’ai’s
supercilious portrait of “The
Poet T’ai-po” (a.d. 1200), the
jewelled birds of the “unknown
master of the Sung dynasty,”
the tiny boats skating like water-
flies on the grey waters of Hsa
Kuei’s “Landscape with a River
Bank” (1180-1230) and the high
tumbled mountains and fir-trees
of Tung Yuan’s “Bright Day”
from the year 1000.
■<!&
And So to Dargie
William Dargie’s portrait of
the Queen, also on display at
the N.S.W. National Gallery,
does not move one as a great
work of art; but when that has
been said, everything about it is
admirable —the force of the blue
eyes, the elegance of the lemon-
yellow dress and shoulder-spray
of flowers to match, the ease and
naturalness of the pose, the
harmony of the background of
dark green. It is by far the most
charming portrait that Dargie
has yet painted; a job that no
one else in the country could
do so well; and he is to be con-
gratulated on rising so well to
a great but difficult occasion.
The curious and maybe hope-
ful thing about Dargie’s land-
scapes, which are concurrently
showing at Sydney Grosvenor
Galleries, is that they show no
sign of the highly finished tech-
nique of his commissioned
portraits: some are too hazy,
rather like Hayward Veal’s
development from the Meldrum
formula; some are too hard;
and all combine to give the
impression that the artist is still
searching for a style.
He is most likely to find it —
or maybe has found it —in such
pictures as “By the Shore,”
which, more clearly than the
others, makes the decisive
escape from paint into the illu-
sion of living landscape and
atmosphere which worth-while
landscape must do, and which is,
in consequence, a most attractive
bit of rock and blue water.
“Native Dance, New Guinea,”
a lively little watercolor, is
another that gives the impression
that the artist felt free to enjoy
himself.
Stage and Music
Barbirolli and Haas
Sir John Barbirolli played
a single programme in Brisbane
with Monique Haas as soloist in
the Mozart D Minor Piano Con-
certo. It was a sturdy perform-
ance, both artists collaborating
to demonstrate Mozart in some
of his most serious and reflective
moods. Madame Haas used a
tone that was strong and clear —
contrast to the ineffectual tinkling
that sometimes passes for a
Mozart style.
Two short English pieces said
little on behalf of modem Brit-
ish music beyond its garrulity.
Geoffrey Bush’s overture,
“Yorick,” had a pleasant tune,
but few flashes of merriment,
and a “Romance for Strings” by
Gerald Finzi sounded palely
imitative of Elgar and Vaughan
Williams, without the virility or
sweep of the great string-works
of either composer.
The Queensland Orchestra
was most at home in Tschai-
kowsky’s Fourth Symphony,
always a work to release inhibi-
tions of players condemned to
play inner parts and to fill-in
harmonies; it must have more
opportunities for all-out fortis-
simo playing than any other of
the so-called “standard” sym-
phonies. Sir John swung his
baton vigorously over this
orchestral inferno, and if the
performance had little polish it
was not lacking in speed or
tremendous volume of sound.
D.J. M.
♦♦♦ ***
Haas— Susskind
In an age when the girdle-ads.
have stripped romance down, as
it were, to its foundations, and
when the romantic spirit in music
is regarded as a kind of artistic
leprosy, such a work as Schu-
mann’s Piano Concerto, the very
fount of romantic ardor, would
appear to be an anachronism.
Theoretically it should be
laughed at by the public, yet aftei
110 years it stubbornly holds first
place in popular affection. And
as it was played, with such a
fascinating mixture of poetry
and forceful authority, at Syd-
ney Town Hall by Monique
Haas with the orchestra under
Susskind, that is understandable.
The orchestra, too, matched
the soloist in the impeccable taste
of its work.
Ernest Bloch’s Concerto
Grosso No. 2, written less than
three years ago and given its
Australian premiere, is an expo-
sition of the form enriched by
Bach and Handel. It is splendidly
melodious, of great architectural
strength and was beautifully
played.
Susskind revived the too-little-
heard Dvorak’s Second Sym-
phony, a work that has been
pushed into the background by
the same composer’s more spec-
tacular Fifth. The Second
remains the finer, comparable
with some of the best of the
classical and romantic masters.
Notable in the reading were the
concerted work of oboe and bas-
soons in the scherzo, the clarinet-
solo in the slow movement, and
the triumphant proclamations of
the ’cellos in the finale.
“Harlem Blackbirds”
There are two - and - thirty
blackbirds in this all-colored
vaudeville offering at Sydney
Palladium, though there is not
a great deal of Harlem in it —
the show has little to mark it as
characteristically negro, and
most of it could be put on in
exactly the same style by white,
yellow or brindle.
One negro characteristic is
disappointingly absent. With
the exception of producer-
compere Larry Steele, whose
diction is careful and deliberate,
the words of the rest of the com-
pany are not always clear;
rather unusual, for—as evi-
denced in the film “Carmen
Jones” —the deliberate articula-
tion of negro players is generally
a pleasure to hear, and watch.
Steele himself hits a high spot
in the show singing “Calypso
Blues,” with Jacqueline Green-
wood providing the most tanta-
lising dancing of the evening.
“Sunshine Body” (Dolores
Cooper) is a lovely creature, and
her act with the balloons is prob-
ably performed abroad with less
sequined costume, but in any
case it is all too brief —the
dance, not the costume.
Mabel Scott startles the audi-
ence with a single preliminary
note like a trumpeting elephant,
then, after looking around to
make sure all present are sitting
bolt-upright in their seats —
which they certainly are —she
beats out dat rhythm again and
again for an enthusiastic audi-
ence which doesn’t seem to
know what she is singing, but
likes it anyway. That she was
a “Red-hot Momma —plenty of
Momma to hold” was the
burthen of one song, and, no
doubt, the words of the rest
of her songs are equally
superfluous.
Maurice Rocco plays boogie-
woogie piano without bothering
to sit down, and shouts, claps
his hands and dances all around
the place with unfaltering
rhythm, often completing a
musical phrase with a gesture.
The piano seems impervious to
the treatment, but, one night,
possibly . . .
The Four Morroccos dis-
tinguish themselves with their
harmonising of “Shadrach,
Meshach and Abednego” and a
mad version of “Somewhere
Over the Rainbow,” and, in the
outstanding act of the evening,
Leonard and Leonard provide
some of the best combined danc-
ing seen in Sydney vaudeville
for quite a time.
From the first chord of the
overture to the finale the show
does not slacken in pace and
volume —it must be one of the
noisiest shows to have hit Sydney
—although some of the items are
overlong. It’s short on comedy,
depending mainly on Dewey
(“Pigmeat”) Markham and
Freddie and Flo, most of whose
wares are pretty tired old vaude-
ville jokes. Mr. Markham has
the personality, all right, and
possibly his gags are his own —
but they beat him out here a
long time ago.
Talkies
“Captain Lightfoot” (Sydney
State): Hollywood here barges
over to Ireland, complete with
phoney Hibernian brogues and
a whole boxful of standard
situations, to give a fatuous
account of how a broth of a
bhoy, as bullet- and sword-proof
as any hero spawned on the
other side of the Atlantic, out-
wits the dastardly English Red-
coats during the last century.


home for morning tea
by Bernard
Harris
“ n) IGHT-OH, Gig,” Red
called over the inter-
\ com.; “you for the set
now.”
We were approaching our
target, a minor Jap landing-point
with two perfectly healthy
bombs in our bay and Red just
the man to deliver them in the
best-approved manner. We were
a single aircraft, and feeling
rather lonely because of that.
We would much rather have
been a whole squadron with
fighter-escort, but beggars cannot
be choosers.
“0.K., Super, turret now,” said
Red.
Of course, Red, as captain, had
every right to order the change,
but I did not feel happy about
it, and as soon as I saw Super
move away from the set with his
headpiece dangling I said:
“About time you got off his
back, Red.”
“He’s all right,” said Red.
“Just what he wants. I’ll hound
the swine till he’s happy to
ride a stick through hell.”
•“Right now I’m not worrying
about him,” I said. “What about
us? What if he packs ’em in the
middle of a blue?”
“He won’t,” said Red with
perhaps more hope than con-
fidence in his tones. “And when
he takes a mind to it he’s the
best bloody gunner in the show.”
Super had climbed into the
turret and would be plugging-in,
so I said no more, but I wished
that Red had left Gig in the
turret, for in a position such as
ours, when the almost inevitable
fighter-attack would come from
above and from the rear, much
peace-of-mind stems from the
knowledge that a good, steady,
reliable hand controls the mid-
upper turret.
Gig was nothing to look at.
He appeared about the last
person a doctor would pass Al.
He was thin, with round
shoulders and a stoop as if he
suffered from some chronic chest-
complaint, and he talked with
that husky half-whispering voice
which often goes with such a
build, his voice in addition giving
the impression of being just
broken and of still having a
tendency to hark back to falsetto.
But Gig was a good gunner, one
who would never panic in an
emergency.
“0.K., boss,” said Gig from
the set.
“0.K., too,” said Super.
“Eyes skinned now,” said Red.
“There might be a Zeke or two
before we’re much older. Gig,
watch to port for landing-craft
and suchlike. Super, it’s all yours
behind us.”
Super was a husky, imposing
chap who looked like the hero
of all gunners, but he was under
a cloud, for he had something of
a reputation for being subject to
attacks of neuralgic diarrhoea
which he could not control.
Nobody had declared him yellow
in so many words, and he was
not officially so or he would have
been posted south as, for the
time being, temperamentally
unfit for active duty. He was all
right while we were doing our
fruitless anti-sub.- and recce-
patrols, but as soon as the Japs
began to swarm into the East
Indies he quickly developed his
distressing illness.
He had been a member of
Judson’s crew until Judson and
crew disappeared without trace,
apparently blasted down by
something or other somewhere
in the tiger country. On that
morning of Judson’s last mission
(a sortie against a landing-point,
too) Super was missing when
time for take-off came, so at the
last moment Addy Thomas took
his place; and shortly after the
aircraft had left Super was found
ill in one of the latrines, suffer-
ing from a complaint which the
M.O. dared not hastily diagnose.
When Judson, and of course
Addy with him, did not return,
there were some who felt that
Addy should not have died as he
did ; and Super found it hard to
get into another crew. No pilot
wanted him, and the unkind felt
he wanted no pilot either. No
pilot wanted him, that is, no
pilot but Red, who took him on
in place of one of our Wags who
had gone down with a very
tangible illness —a broken spine
sustained in a drunken stumble
over the Point.
Personally I should rather
have chosen a seagull to fill the
vacancy; but Red must have
known what he was doing—he
had probably seen many a one
dice it early in favor of the cook-
house, and he also well knew the
wisdom of the general scramble
after a bad prang on a training-
station.
CO Super was in our crew, but
as far as I was concerned
scarcely of it. Even before this
trip I thought I had seen in him
symptoms of a recurrence of his
complaint and suspected that he
might have taken a powder again
at the last moment if Red had
not clung to him like a leech
through the crucial time and
then, as surely as if he had done
so with the business end of a
.38, morally forced him aboard.
Base, when we left it, had been
expecting an attack in force at
any moment. There had been a
few fleeting visits by single
enemy bombers and then a few
fast recce sorties. Our paltry
force of fighters was primed to
meet a major air-assault, fol-
lowed, some thought, by
invasion. I had had a suspicion
that, on this account, Super may
have tossed up and decided that
it was as safe to come as to stay;
otherwise, despite Red’s vigil-
ance, we may not have had him
with us.
Our target-island, or rather
one of the inland peaks of it,
suddenly showed out of the mist
beyond the distant horizon, a
black mass shimmering under
purple haze ; then the sharp grey
outline of coast wriggled into
view along the dark sea-edge.
“We follow the coast north-
east as soon as we get near
enough,” said Red. “Eyes
peeled, now.”
The morning was as fine as it
well could be. There was not a
trace of a cloud in the sky, not a
vestige of cover to cloak our
approach towards our target,
and at eight-thousand-feet we
felt as vulnerable as a duck float-
ing serenely across the target-
area of a shooting-gallery. We
might perhaps have come in low
to the deck in the manner of a
Beaufighter; but it was a safe
bet that if the Japs had the neces-
sary equipment, either at the
beach-head or on one of their
supporting ships, they would in
good time detect our run in from
the sea at whatever height we
made it; and our bit of height
would ensure a smart, nose-down
getaway, if we survived long
enough to make it.
“Yell out the minute you see
anything interesting,” Red called
as, ten miles short of the coast,
he swung to starboard on to a
course parallel with the shore.
Almost immediately Super called
“Planes a long way away about
three-o’clock.”
There was no guessing how
many there were, but they were
a big formation', higher than we
were and apparently heading
south-east. They certainly were
not ours, for we could not have
put up so many if we had scraped
the bottom of the bin.
“Pound out a few words about
them to base, Gig,” said Red.
“They seem to be headed in that
general direction.”
As the hurried staccato of
Gig’s Morse side-tone crackled
over the intercom.; as Red
unwaveringly held to his steady
course and speed ; as the enemy
formation —either because they
had not detected us or had
mistaken us for one of their own
or else because they were content
to take no action but to report us
back to their base —receded
unbroken into the hazy distance,
I began as usual to suffer slight
twinges of neuralgic diarrhoea
myself. This was in no way
affected by the knowledge that
in our situation every dit or dah
from Gig’s transmitter added to
our danger or from the convic-
tion that Red would still go sail-
ing in if the whole Jap Air Force
were above the landing-place ; it
was a phenomenon which always
manifested itself as the ordeal
drew near.
Who was I, then, to blame
Super even if he was shirking
it? He was no rookie, but an
old hand at the game of wag-
ging, even if his experience had
been mostly in play; but I was
no rookie either.
The fact was, our general pre-
dicament was no enviable one.
With the Japs swarming in we
had lots to do and very little to
do it with —just a few old,
obsolete crates which some called
“Flying Tinder-boxes” because
with their fuel-tanks mere
cavities in the mainplane instead
of separate, self-contained units,
they caught alight at the slightest
prang. All aircraft have an
embarrassing habit of burning in
a crash, but you could bet your
life these would burn, and you
could be sure of winning your
bet even if it killed you doing it.
The thought of ten slow and
sluggish crates against innumer-
able packs of fresh Jap fighters
eager to pump lead
and against brand-
new and bristling
Jap ground-fire was
not conducive to
normal bowel -
action ; but these old
crates just had to
have a go because
there was nothing
else. On this present
mission we would
have liked to have a
couple of squadrons,
or a squadron or at
least a few planes,
but the fact was that
there was but one
plane available, and
hang the expense. Perhaps the
men should not have been asked
to do it, but there was no
alternative except abject inoffen-
siveness.
There was nothing surer than
that we would not last long,
because the few planes would
soon pack up under the sheer
weight of the opposition; it was
just a matter of plugging along,
hitting out where possible, until
that day came. Meanwhile I
could try to endure my ailment
and try to sympathise with Super
because he seemed unable to
endure his. Everyone would
pack up in one way or another
sooner or later; Super had
merely packed up a bit prema-
turely ; but for all my
sympathy I hated to have Super
in the turret at this crucial
moment because his presence
there instead of Gig added
greatly to my unease.
nrHE tattoo of Gig’s message
abruptly ceased, and al-
most immediately he was near
me fiddling with the gun that
pointed back under our belly.
His very nearness was a com-
fort to me, just as perhaps the
Companionship of his comrades
is a comfort to a soldier going
into battle. After all, we were
four lonely souls cut off from
allies and home by hundreds
of miles of hostile ocean and
cut off from each other except
for the intercom, by the very
build of the aircraft. We were
lonely with that unique loneli-
ness of the airman moving in
for a daylight strike which had
to be done in daylight because
by night there would be noth-
ing worth striking at, uneasy in
that tense loneliness which
seems to grow the keener the
wider the grave gapes.
Slowly our target came into
distant view over a wooded
point—three landing-ships pulled
up almost to the beach, and two
destroyers standing perhaps a
mile offshore.
“No fancy runs,” said Red.
“Slap in and then home and
mother.”
He eased the aircraft to port
and steadied her for the run-in.
“Eight-thousand,” he said to
me; “hundred-and-eighty air-
speed. Steady as she goes.
Course for home as from here.
We fight shy of the bloody
Navy ; give it a wide berth after
we pass over.”
I settled down to the serious
part of bomb-aiming.
“All eyes now, Super, Gig.
We’re going in,” said Red.
We seemed to hang suspended
in the sky, so slowly did the
target approach us. I fumbled
about, all thumbs, with my
bomb-sight for what seemed
hours, yet I was hardly ready
when the crucial moment came.
No air-opposition w'as in evi-
dence, and as we came close
in there seemed to be nothing
coming up at us. It was as if s
lulled by our weakness into a
sense of security, they assumed
we were one of their own; and
just before the first bomb went
I thought I could make out in-
quisitive faces gazing idly up at
us from among the unloading
crew.
‘‘Down the hatch!” I said,
and as our bomb-doors closed
Red heeled her over and put
her nose down.
“Like taking suckers off a
kid,” said Red.
Our speed built up until the
old crate was screaming in pro-
test.
“How did she go, Super?”
Red asked, but there was no
immediate answer, and then
Super’s voice came loud and
shrill, “Two Zekes—five-o’clock
—high up!”
“Right,” called Red. “I’ll hear
you at six hundred yards. Hang
on, chaps! Going down? Cribs,
corsets, cutlery” and down
went our nose still further and
up went our port-wing as Red
edged in towards the fighters’ line
of approach.
Suddenly the belly gun under
me stuttered into a long burst,
and almost instantaneously it
seemed, even though the turret
still maintained its silence, there
sounded a number of sharp ex-
plosions inside the cabin itself,
showing that we were being hit
and holed.
“Are there some more,
Super?” yelled Red.
“No,” said Super.
“Then why don’t you sing out,
shoot, do something, you silly
sod?” asked Red as he
banked over further into his
turn.
“I can’t,” said Super.
“Won’t they go?” yelled Red.
“Have you got a stoppage?”
“No,” said Super.
“Then why don’t you bloody-
well shoot?” asked Red.
“They’ve gone over now,”
said Super.
I could picture Red’s face as,
almost speechless from incredu-
lity and repressed disgust, he
found himself compelled to
keep on talking in a situation
that demanded immediate action.
“Do you mean you had a
chance to shoot and didn’t?”
asked Red.
“I just couldn’t shoot,” said
Super.
There were faint sounds as
of Red’s organs of speech work-
ing themselves up for a
special effort; but he seemed
suddenly to recollect that he
was not stooging along on some
monotonous patrol, that we
were strictly on the defensive
with two fighters on our tail,
that this matter cou]4 well wait
to be thrashed out in less press-
ing circumstances.
“Gig, get up into the turret
and see what’s going on,” was
all he said.
Gig went staggering aft
against the G of Red’s turn just
as Super began backing out. As
Gig climbed in, Super just stood
hanging on to the turret door-
way and looking stupidly up at
the guns, as if he hardly knew
what to do next, as if all the
hours of hard training and disci-
pline he had undergone had
done nothing better than to
leave him without a clue at the
crucial moment.
Though we were now getting
so low that nothing but perhaps
a submarine would be likely
to be flying at us from below,
I went and hung to the belly-
gun trigger and glued my eyes


/<£ it /,4 ,/. W--
A\
■>^y
a-A
7
~y*€
//. x*-?>
lISIt
s''
■
fl
U
V'/// "»*<{ <
Now on display the new
VAUXHALLcouk utility
23.44 h.p. 6 cylinder O.H.V.
With a handsome new front end . . .
improved driving Vision ... new interior
comfort and beauty in the roomy (56f"
wide) three-seater driving compartment
—this new Vauxhall Coupe Utility is a
smart, after-hours companion ... a
hardworking business'partner.
Other new features include a re-designed
instrument panel, flexible-coupled steer-
ing ... and flashing direction indicators.
The powerful 23.44 h.p. ‘over-square’
Velox engine now has thicker compress-
ion rings—the top ring being chrome
plated for longer engine life.
The steel-panelled load compartment on
its sturdy chassis frame handles tough,
capacity-load work with ease.
For truly outstanding value ... See this
new Vauxhall Utility soon.
G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire Purchase
arrangements are available for your con-
venience. Ask your dealer. Ask, too,
about the built-fcr-Vauxhall ‘Air Chief’
Radio.
front end styling with a new,
lower bonnet silhouette.
interior finish—new instru-
ment panel and interior trim.
electrical system control . . „
with ‘interruptor’ unit.
flashing direction indicators
for extra safety.
longer-life piston rings.
steering and handling ease.
Vauxhall 10 cwt. Coupe- Utility is priced at £950 plus Sales Tax
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
VU 2/24
to the reflected sight. In our
plight it would scarcely have been
the accepted thing to have said,
“I told you so,” to Red, and
in any circumstances I would
not have chanced it anyway.
“He couldn’t shoot!” said Red
savagely. In his astonishment
and indignation he apparently
took as a personal affront what
I, after my fear of it, could well
regard objectively; but Red
alone had chosen Super, and he
could not help tacitly admitting
it.
“Cramp in the hand perhaps,”
I said.
“Cramp in the guts more
likely,” said Red.
For a few moments I was
occupied by one of the fighters
trying to tear open our belly in
a vicious upswoop from a pull-
out low to the sea. I wildly
sprayed lead from the belly-gun
at him, then I glanced back to
see if Gig had settled himself, to
see Super sitting on the edge of
the radio seat with his elbows on
his knees. At the same moment
the internal explosions came
again, this time from the direc-
tion of the turret. Immediately
Gig’s right hand fell dangling
into view in the turret doorway
and I had a vision of how his
poor skinny body must be
slumped on the turret seat.
“Gig’s hit,” I said.
“Get back there,” said Red.
“I’ll do what I can in the mean-
time.”
AS I clawed my way aft, with-
out any conscious effort on
my part, my mind swiftly visual-
ised the position. Gig had
climbed into the turret, had been
settling himself, steadying his
reflexes, accustoming his eyes to
the change of light. The Jap
had caught him in this situation,
which by the sound of things
had not allowed Gig to fire a
single shot even if he had seen
the attack coming.
Gig had certainly not been
ready; he had not been more
than a few moments in the
turret. The change-over at that
crucial time had been the cause
of whatever damage had been
done, damage that seemed to be
confined to the . turret, and
Super’s inability to fire the guns
had made the change necessary.
Even in my haste I felt like
striking at Super as I passed
him.
One look at Gig convinced
me that he had made his last
flight. As gently as I could I
hauled him out of the turret to
fihd Super at my elbow, white
and staring.
“Look to him,” I said as I
made to climb into the turret,
but Super thrust his arm hard
against the bulkhead in front
of me and himself tried to climb
in. I gave him such an elbow
that, big as he was, he went
staggering against the fuselage
wall, and the boot I had ready
to follow up with remained
poised until I saw that he showed
no immediate disposition to
come again.
“Get out, you silly drongo!”
I said, though in the roar of
our descent he probably did
not hear me. “See what you can
do for Gig. You probably got
him shot!”
Everything seemed all right
with the guns as I plugged my
earphones into the turret socket
and simultaneously stared round
at the scenery behind us.
“I think Gig got his,” I said
to Red. “Super’s looking after
him, I hope. There are two buz-
zards coming line astern straight
on to our tail —maybe a mile
away.”
“Go to it, then,” said Red.
“Get both of them. Forget the
belly-gun. We’re too low for
that anyway, and I’ll be levelling
out soon.”
Apparently emboldened by the
fact that their fire had not been
returned from the turret the two
Japs were making a direct
attack on our tail from the rear.
In my experience, fighters at-
tacking from the rear had never
come in so but always in a curve
of pursuit which became more
acute as their quarry turned in
towards them ; but these came in
from dead-astern straight and
steady, so that I could pick them
up in my sight and hold them
there in anticipation of that pro-
pitious moment for pressing my
trigger.
They were doing it the hard
way as far as I was concerned.
They could easily have come
in simultaneously from different
quarters and given me schizo-
phrenia trying to decide which
one to pick off first; they might
perhaps have come in a dozen
different patterns in such a way
as to screen one of them from
our fire during its entire pass
at us; but they chose to follow
each other in from dead-astern.
Their rate of overtaking was
not fast because Red had greatly
accelerated during his plunge to-
wards the sea, and so I had
ample time to make my allow-
ances ; not that I needed any
time really, for I was the world’s
worst marksman, whose aim ap-
peared to be rather spoiled than
improved by allowances. My
best efforts were probably over
open sights, hit-or-miss, and the
only allowance that I could pro-
fitably use was that from the
trace-indication during each
burst.
With twin Brownings each
spitting 1150 rounds a minute I
might at best expect to be about
as deadly as a good shot with
a .303 rifle. I had been known
to score five per cent, on a
drogue at 300 yards, but on that
occasion there had been strong
official suspicion that the
markers had been either color-
blind or extravagantly biased in
my favor. But even as I waited
I felt confident of doing better
than Super, who had not man-
aged to fire a single shot.
So well did the foremost Jap
fly, with scarcely a waver, that
he presented a still target, a sit-
ting shot. I sweated on him
until I saw him open his first
burst, and then I let him have
it, both guns, right in the nose;
and surprisingly I hit him first
burst, pilot and engine and all.
Perhaps all the credit for my
achievement should go to the
Jap, who had flown so uner-
ringly into my burst. He fell for-
ward over his control column,
pushing his plane’s nose down ;
there were spurts of smoke
round his fuselage; and, almost
before I had time to turn my
attention towards his com-
panion, he had hit the sea with
a great splash.
His mate, committed now to
the same mode of attack, was
upon me before I had well recov-
ered from the surprise of
my feat, and then, just at
the moment of extreme range,
Red roughly tightened his turn,
putting both me and the Jap off
our aim so that I for my part
pumped bullets into the air a
mile behind him as he passed
over us.
“Three Zekes peeling off
from port—ten-o’clock!” called
Red.
Feeling a tug at my waist I
glanced down to see Super mak-
ing motions with his hands which
seemed meant to convey that
Gig had passed on and other
motions urging me down from
the turret; but I immediately
turned back to my job, quickly
sighted the new arrivals and
made to swing my guns towards
them, only to find that they were
as yet beyond the traverse of
the turret.
I quickly realised that, though
they came at us like angry hor-
nets intent on making a vicious
pass, to harm us from their angle
of attack they would have to
make a tight reverse-loop which
would get them nowhere but to
the bottom of the sea. For by
now Red was down almost to the
deck, almost riding the waves,
allowing himself just enough
height for healthy manoeuvre.
To the layman our position
then might have seemed hope-
less —low to the sea, maximum
speed not much above two hun-
dred knots now that the impetus
from our dive was spent, four
enemy fighters working near
their own base out for our
blood —but actually our situ-
ation was not as desperate as
it might appear, and had we
been in a plane such as a Sun-
derland with guns bristling on
every hand we might have been
as safe as houses. For there is
perhaps no target so difficult
for a fighter to attack as a turn
reted aircraft flying low to the
sea.
With the effective range of his
guns less than 2000 feet, with
his diving-speed perhaps 2000
feet in three seconds, with the
ever-present hazard of the too
sharp pull-out or the too-tight
turn low down ending in a high-
speed stall into the sea, with
the necessity after every pass of
pulling over or banking away
from the target, thus exposing
the full spread of the belly to
possible fire, with the odds of a
single-handed attack on us
against him, with the possibility
of concerted attack, while each
attacking pilot concentrated on
his flying, on his shooting and
on all his individual difficulties,
ending in collision —with all
these contingencies and many
others besides to consider, each
Jap pilot, unless he was intent on
suicide, would attack with a
deal of circumspection and there-
fore with less venom. In addi-
tion, Red was no tyro at the art
of evasion; in fact, if at that
moment I could have had the
pick of the whole Air Force
pool of pilots, I should have
chosen him for this emergency.
There seemed as yet no
liaison between the single Zeke
and the three newcomers, for
whereas the former came straight
round in a pursuing curved
attack the latter manoeuvred for
height ahead of us.
T CAREFULLY watched the
survivor of the original
attack come sweeping down in a
shallow dive, rather undashingly,
as if he were supersensitive of
the unkind sea below us. I
drew a bead on him, drummed
out a short burst at 600 yards
and then gave the guns every-
thing, only to realise after a
short moment of bewilderment
that neither gun was responding;
and I instinctively ducked as the
attacker zoomed up over us.
Hastily I began to check my
guns and controls, but even as
I did so an impotent hopeless-
ness began to settle on me, for
I knew from long experience
that I was helpless with a stop-
page, helpless even in peace-
ful surroundings. It might have
been anything from a dislodged
power-plug to a couple of split
cases, but I would hardly be
likely to detect it without ex-
haustive testing, and by the time
I had fixed it we would all be
at the bottom of the sea.
“Stoppage,” I said to Red.
“A bad one as far as I’m con-
cerned. You’re on your own till
I can trace it, and I don’t know
when that’ll be.”
“0.K.,” said Red. “Do your
best. See you later. Come on,
you snorters! ”
They did come on, thick and
fast, diving on us from every
conceivable angle and holing us
in so many places that it was a
wonder the aircraft could con-
tinue to float at all, but never
once hitting us in a vital spot
or starting a single fire.
“Must be using b.b. shot,”
said Red.
What with trying to keep Red
posted with details of danger
from the rear and trying at the
same time to locate the stop-
page, my two hands were awk-
ward stumps and my head a
piece of meat. In addition I
began to feel the full effects of
having my head poked up into a
transparent dome in full view
of the heavens without having
something in front of me to talk
to the Japs with.
I began to feel as a hunted
ostrich might do that is cor-
nered in a concrete-covered pad-
dock. I felt like putting my
head under something as some
people do at the approach of
burglars or of a storm. I began to
feel as perhaps Super did when
he froze in the turret. If I had
suffered from claustrophobia
those few minutes in the turret
open to the wide would have
been enough to cure me com-
pletely of it. And this uneasiness
of mine had nothing whatever
to do with the certainty that we
were doomed, that the end was
only a matter of time,
in the midst of my fumbling
a t the guns Super again began to
tug at my waist, this time in-
sistently, and when at length I
looked back at him there seemed
to be a new, wild look in his
eyes, and I felt that he was des-
perate to get away from the
corpse which I could see just
behind him. I had hardly turned
m y head towards the rear again
when there was a mighty flash
just before my eyes and the next
moment a huge ball of fire
flashed into the sea just beyond
o ur tail-assembly. I did not need
to be a seer to assume that some
indiscretion had caused two of
our attackers to collide,
this time I was desperate
as f ar as the guns were con-
cerned. I was no gunner and the
whole set-up was more or less
a maze to me. I had tried everv-
thing I knew and still the guns
would not budge
« Some more ; mt inined in »
said Red “Looks like there's
now five of them ”
“Looks as if I’m stumned ” I
sa jd. “Super looks eager to ’ get
U p here. What do vou reckorf?”
“Give it a go ” said Red
“What he doesn’t’ know about
guns the makers don’t But if
he shows signs of sitting pretty
again , blow him out quick ”
8 ’ scTuncomfort
abl e“ The m“et and Sw i
was m y time there at
this iuncture I didn’t fancv
relinquishing ’my efforts there
i n f aV or of Super but I climbed
down; and up went Super like
a chased goanna up a tree
There was Gig, dead all right
an d there was the unmistakable
evidence of Super’s havine been
(Continued on next page)


preserver of mffatber
now of me, tf)C ,
medicine efrnj bouse
Sfja/iespeare
23
H
£ O $P»
r
j i
'"SI ‘*ol,,
•*1
vn
CHATEAU TANUNDA
offiCcS/and/H o^3)UUndion
A Product of the House of Seppelt
N.S.W. Agents: TUCKER & CO. PTY. LTD. ESTB. 1838
well and truly sick all over the
place, from the rear spar to the
turret. I sweated on the turret
doorway, looking up at Super. It
was obvious that he was doing
something with the guns and
doing it in a mighty hurry, and
as I saw this a story which a
soldier named Jack Gout had
once told me flashed through my
mind.
Gout had had his first taste
of fire in an Allied attack on
Bardia or Solium or perhaps one
of the other ports on the North
African coast. During the night
his unit had taken up its posi-
tion in a wadi within striking-
distance of the fort to wait for
dawn to send it in behind the
tanks. Just as light came the
order to advance was given, but
Gout felt as if he had become
part of the wadi and could not
move. But his cobber next to
him stood up and on the in-
stant stopped a bullet in the
chest and there was blood every-
where.
Gout vomited ; then his bowels
moved; then, at sight of his
friend shot dead, something went
haywire in his head. For the
life of him he could never after-
wards remember anything of
what followed until he found
himself, utterly foul from vomit
and excreta and the dust of
battle, but thoroughly triumph-
ant and ready for anything, right
in the middle of the captured
town; and, judging by the gong
he was given, he must have led
the whole Allied infantry into
that place. Somehow I hoped
that something like that had
happened to Super.
A LMOST immediately the
turret guns barked out in a
trial burst and then there was
Super peering through his sight
and blazing away like a hero.
I went forward to spot for
Red.
“Super’s come good,” I said.
“Now we’ll see what sort of a
gunner he is.”
“Another trying it head-on,”
said Red.
The Jap came scooting in at
a shallow dive, but the second
or so of shooting which our
combined speeds allowed him
was rather spoiled by Red’s turn
at the psychological moment;
and the brief chatter of the tur-
ret guns indicated that a sharp
attack had come from astern.
“I’m getting real worried
about these poor cows,” said
Red. “Jf they don’t soon turn
round, they won’t have enough
juice to get back to their drome,
wherever that is. Pity we
couldn’t send them a signal to
this effect.”
For a moment I applied half
an eye to my plot, for though we
were in a corner we just had to
keep knowing what corner we
were in.
“They’ve decided to get us or
else,” I said. “We’ve done too
much damage.”
“The trouble is they don’t
have enough to do,” said Red.
“Probably never saw one of our
planes before. Pity we
couldn’t give them more prac-
tice. Shoo, shoo!”
The interjections were
addressed to a Jap hurtling
crabwise at us directly from the
port-quarter who, at the very
last moment, looked as if he was
intent on joining us inside the
cabin. Simultaneously there
was a loud explosion behind us,
and looking back I saw smoke
streaming out through the turret-
doorway.
“Are you all right, Super?”
asked Red, but there was no
answer.
When I reached the turret
there was smoke everywhere,
and the air was fouller from the
fumes of spent cordite than our
guns alone ever made it, and
Super, his face ashen and quiver-
ing as with shock, was looking
wildly down at me. For a
moment I thought he was all
right and was calling for some
of the spare ammunition, and
then as he swivelled again
towards his guns I saw some-
thing of the shocking condition
he was in. As I touched him he
slumped down in what seemed
to be a dead faint, and as he
crumpled-up his ghastly injuries
literally gaped before my eyes.
He seemed to be ripped from
buttock to brisket as a tent
might be by a small hurricane.
An explosive - bullet had
apparently got into the turret
with him before exploding, and
he had stopped most of it, his
body having protected his guns
from serious damage. He was
so torn about that I hardly knew
whether it would be better to
bandage him up or clamp him
together with spare clips from
the batteries. Though it
appalled me even to think of
moving him, I knew that for
his own good and for the good
of the whole aircraft he would
have to be shifted out of the
turret; and I was about to begin
this task when something
slapped the side of my head
very hard. Instinctively I
reached for the stinging part
just as a stream of warm blood
flowed down my face.
For some reason, which for
the life of me I could not under-
stand, I sat down on the floor
alongside Gig’s body and the
next thing I knew I was lying
flat on my back blinking up at a
gaping, jagged hole in the
fuselage-roof. I seemed to
watch that spot for a long time,
hazily wondering if it was big
enough for a Jap fighter to fit
through. Sometimes the patch
of sky I could see appeared dull
grey, sometimes dark blue,
sometimes black; then as
abruptly it became very brightly
blue the unmistakable rattle of
machine-gun fire sounded
deafeningly above the constant
roaring in my ears.
I managed to sit up ; some-
how I managed to crawl
through my own blood to the
radio-set; it took me some time
to plug-in my earphones, for
the exertion had had the effect
of blinding me.
“Super’s hit bad,” I said.
“Is that you, Bert?” asked
again 9 ” Are
“No,” I said , Rupert, there,
“He e s o unds P dl riSht the way
he’s shooting " said Red.
“Something l
wrth htm just before I came
h a£ k-
“He just this minute scored a
bull that sent another crashing to
hell,” said Red. “But he’s not
talking.”
“I was pinked on the scalp
and went down for the count,”
1 said.
I was beginning to feel some-
what better now. The horrible
nausea that I had woken-up
with had lessened. My mind
was clearing and hope was
rising in me as I began to
suspect that I had been wrong,
that Super’s injuries had been
a figment of my knocked-out
imagination.
“I’ll go back,” I said.
“Here they come again,” said
Red.
I managed to drag myself to
the turret. Super was shooting
all right, and apparently bring-
ing intense concentration to
bear on his guns, but I had not
been mistaken. He had been
hit harder than I had at first
thought. He was so badly torn
about that it was a wonder he
still managed to hang together
at all. The very sight of him
brought me almost entirely to
my senses, but I waited until he
had ceased firing before I
touched his shoulder and
indicated that I would help him
down.
He turned briefly to look
down at me out of a ghastly
face that I shall never forget,
motioned me away, at the same
time intimating that he knew I
had been hit on the head, then
turned back to his guns.
'T'HE next moment the aircraft
lurched badly, sending me
sprawling against the bulkhead,
where I had no sooner struggled
to my feet than another heavy
jolt sent me flying into a huddle
against the rear spar; and I
had just dragged myself to my
knees when the most violent
bump of all, which made me
fear we had hit the sea, sent me
somersaulting to the front spar,
where I landed with such a
force as might have broken
bones if by now there had been
any resistance left in my joints.
The first jar had struck me
as being the result of a particu-
larly abrupt evasive turn, but,
as I careered madly about the
aircraft like some great ape
with the glandular make-up of a
waltzing mouse, I was convinced
that a vital control-surface had
been damaged or blown-off
altogether, sending us glancing
on to the sea and bouncing
along from swell to swell.
The blows I had received in
tumbling about, though hardly
calculated to agree with my
battered constitution, seemed
actually to revive me somewhat,
so that as I lay crumpled-up
beside the front spar waiting for
the final plunge I felt an alert-
ness rising in me. Then, as I
took a quick glance forward
through the nose, I saw that
we were well above the sea, that
whatever had made the aircraft
buck so fiercely had apparently
caused Red to claw instinctively
for height and safety. Next I
looked up at Red and received a
further shock.
Red had assumed the appear-
ance of a boxer who has taken a
knockout blow in the solar-
plexus and, yet, by a prodigious
effort of will, refuses even to
double-up. His legs looked as
if they wanted badly to lift his
feet off the rudder-pedals and
his hands as if all they craved
was to clasp comfortingly to his
middle. Blood was trickling
out of his shirt-sleeves, spread-
ing over his great hairy fore-
arms and dripping down on to
the parachute and dinghy-pack
on which he sat. His face was
so puckered-up in what might
have passed as a wry grin that
his eyes seemed closed, but he
could see all right now, for he
had corrected the aircraft’s
cavortings and was even, I
thought, nosing down towards
the sea.
My first thought, though as a
pilot I had never got beyond the
stage of struggling against an
aircraft’s inclination to climb,
dive or bank, was to relieve him,
but as soon as I touched his
arm he actually took one hand
off the stick and flexed his
muscle as an indication that he
was healthy, and then pointed
at my head and dived his hand
downward to show what he
thought of my piloting. Then I
hastily plugged-in my earphones.
“You’re hit,” I said.
“Not even bad enough to
earn me a day at Randwick
races,” he said.
He pointed to his chest and
I had a look. Right across the
fleshy part of his huge chest
was a bloody, jagged furrow
that looked an inch deep. Com-
pared with Super’s injuries it
was hardly a scratch, but sus-
tained by any ordinary mortal it
might have been enough to have
plunged us into the sea off-hand,
and, as it was, it might well have
complications that would be
disastrous to us yet.
“He’s gone,” said Red, and
for a moment I wondered what
he was talking about. Then a
shadow flitted directly over us
and right ahead of us material-
ised as a fighter which curved
gracefully down towards the
deck, hit the sea in a neat,
shallow duck - dive, sending
water symmetrically flying in
two sparkling, white-edged arcs
on the sides of it, and waited
until we had almost reached it
before slipping quietly under.
“More of Super’s work,” said
Red. “I told you he was some
gunner. We’re not hearing each
other and we don’t know what’s
going on, but he’s doing a great
job even while I’m all over the
place like a mad woman’s
orange-peel.”
My mind looped back to
Super sitting all but dead in the
turret.
“If you’re right I’ll go back
and check on the intercom.,’ I
said.
“Right as rain,” said Red.
For some reason the few
moments’ rest had given me the
staggers again, but I managed
to reach the radio, where I fell
forward on my face, succeeded
in rolling over on to my back,
tried to sit up and then collapsed
in what must have been a dead-
faint.
THE next thing I remember
thinking about was that
there was no sound of firing
either inside or outside the air-
craft. Then I realised that
something else was missing, and
it was some time before I placed
that as the absence of that
peculiar, whirring vibration
caused by the friction of surface-
air on our skin. We were no
longer near the deck; for some
reason Red had climbed.
This time I rolled my way to
the turret and clawed myself to
my knees in the doorway. Super
had slumped down away from
his guns, but I knew he was still
alive. In a painful nightmare
(i Continued on page 3 )
THE MISS PARKERS
(From "The Schoolie of Blightour”)
Not regretting their youth,
For this they preserved
In a mummified way
(Hair brittle from curling tongs,
Cheeks larded to a childish bloom)
They played ladies with each other
Fussily every day of sixty years.
Living by the liquid sapphire and ruby lights
Of grandfather’s chemist’s shop, and then their
father’s,
Who was still Young Parker at eighty-three
And able
To read the crabbed prescriptions of drunken
Doctor Cleary—
(“Never more than a horse-quack,” they said,
“too keen with the knife!”)
With them emotion, spun too fine,
Shivered at a touch like glass,
With the expense of* all spirit
Bogged down in a waste of trifles.
They welcomed guests
And sped their departure so that
They could pursue the Parker emptiness of life.
Thought, in the sudden tedium of friends,
How flowers by their silence made amends,
Sitting underneath the faded print' of la Gioconda.
No child hangs on her breast,
No work laid by;
The idle portrait smirks in Circe trance,
No ray of pity lifts that cloudy glance,
No gentle beauty dreams about her smile
But there were men for her would plough those
rocks,
And for those gracious hands be glad to die.
So thought the Miss Parkers of Leonardo’s painting.
Remembering men who turned the music
Under the pink candle shade,
And under the siren power of singing
Knew awe but not romance,
And led them to no marriage bed.
Nor could 'Clarice or Isobel consider
That red-haired ganghng youngster,
The schoolmaster of Blightour,
So both died queer, unwed.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


A
ARTS
Circular Chart* for all typo*
of Recording Instrument*
MffTJR CHARTS a Specialty
jAc-WomuvASSL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Cm convinced CAPSTAN
is better tobacco!'
“For me the Capstan blend has all the qualities
to make my smoking enjoyment complete.
“ Capstan'a own blend of fine Virginia leaf
maintains a consistent standard—fine flavour,
fresh fragrance and smooth smoking.*’
Ask everywhere for—CAPSTAN
’
ffm
mm*
; 5:
:
«ass:%u*SSs2Sfi!
sss -
w
CAPSTAN
- better tobacco
dm^SSiS
X%?ivX%v:W:
A
&
£3
1
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT
VIRGINIA TOBACCO
2050.10.54
FDGFDG
By Davicl
Rowlothan
REG SAMPSON limped
painfully into the spare-
room off the veranda and
took the .22 rifle down
from the bracket on the wall.
The rifle was used by him and
John for shooting the hawks
that swooped after the chickens
or for killing the snakes that
strayed into the garden.
Mrs. Sampson and the girls
also knew how to use it and
were fair markswomen, but
there were very few occasions
when they could not rely on Reg
or John to do the shooting for
them; although Reg always
remembered with pride the skill
with which Eileen, his youngest
daughter, had once put the
weapon to her shoulder and
brought down a malignant-eyed
eaglehawk that had been prey-
ing on the chickens.
The only time when it had
been used on creatures other
than hawks or snakes was when
Billy, the one horse they kept
to harness to the sulky, stumbled
and fell going down the range
road, which began just on the
other side of the golf-course.
John and Mrs. Sampson were
riding in the sulky, on their way
to visit the Hennings who lived
in the valley near Wooton Creek ;
but neither was hurt. Billy
broke his leg, and John walked
back to the house for the rifle
and shot him, and afterwards
cried. The whole family felt
bereaved, even Joan, the eldest
daughter, who had her mother’s
hardness but still went to church
with the rest.
The only one who did not go
to church, who had never been
to church, except to be married,
was Reg. He was not antagonis-
tic towards church; he was
merely not interested in it. Mrs.
Sampson disliked him intensely
for his disinterest; it put her to
the continued trouble of apolo-
gising for his absence to each
new minister who came to the
circuit. She never needed to
apologise for the girls. Eileen
was afraid of her and docilely
obeyed her every command and
guiltily repented if called to order
for the most inconsequential of
little sins, while Joan, though
quite unmoved by the sonorous
dusty atmosphere of church and
inwardly contemptuous of her
mother for her religiousness,
never demurred; it guaranteed
her mother’s favors, which were
worth while having because Mrs.
Sampson had the money.
Mrs. Sampson needed to
apologise for John only when he
was courting the Henning girl
and valued all day Sunday as
the logical time to make his suit.
Mrs. Sampson did not discour-
age this ; the Hennings owned a
prosperous farm and even ran
sheep, so that the farm could
legitimately be called a pro-
perty.
Because Mrs. Sampson
thought the match one to be
encouraged, she apologised for
John at church with the savor of
defence in her tone. She was
almost baleful in her disappoint-
ment when the courtship died
out, with perfect understanding
between the two young people,
and thereafter she would not
sanction John’s visiting the Hen-
nings on Sundays even for
friendship’s sake; she felt his
presence at church contributed
to her own position as a devout
woman with a devout family—
except for Reg Sampson.
The ministers did not seem to
mind or to be embarrassed by
Reg’s lack of spiritual enthusi-
asm. Whoever the minister
might be at the time —ministers
were changed every three years
—he would visit the Sampsons
to take tea with Mrs. Sampson
and the girls, but ostensibly to
remain and chat with Reg Samp-
son on the sunny front-porch. At
such moments, Mrs. Sampson,
with asperity, would be confined
to the kitchen preparing either
lunch or dinner, depending on
whether the minister came in the
late morning or in the late after-
noon.
Reg Sampson had an in-
exhaustible supply of anecdotes
and autobiographical adventures,
and people liked hearing him
talk, especially when they rea-
lised that while he was encour-
aged to talk his mind was less on
his relentless pain. People liked
Reg Sampson, and admired him
for his endurance, and his inde-
pendence. They envied him, too,
the active youth he had led, and
hearing about it somehow
brought into the routine life of
the district and into the parochial
atmosphere of the complacently
lazy town a flavor of reality
foreign to most of them, and
consequently romantic.
AS a young man he had mi-
grated to Canada from Eng-
land, where he was bom, and in
Canada had travelled and ridden
buckjumpers in rodeos. He had
even gone to Alaska, and had
worked in the oilfields of the
Rocky .Mountains. He was
almost forty years of age when
he had come to Australia. Soon
after arriving for no reason at
all in Stanton, he had married
Margaret Paley and settled down
to giowing flowers, which he
sold to the florists and private
householders in the town.
The house and its acre, and a
bank-account, had been given to
Margaret as a dowry by her
widowed mother. Margaret had
surprised everybody by marrying
at the rather promiseless age of
thirty-nine. The gift had piqued
her two spinster sisters almost as
much as her taking a husband
had done ; but the march she
had stolen on them was toler-
ated after a while when their
mother died and left them just as
comfortable, in another home
and half a dozen acres, with no
man to support.
Reg developed arthritis, and
the complaint crippled him so
much that anything he did could
only be done half-satisfactorily,
though valiantly. Margaret
Sampson had to help him in the
garden, which she did with bad
grace, making him feel his in-
ability to properly work for them
all. Later he was helped by
John, and the humiliation grew
less as it became evident that
John, the second-bom, adored
him, if only when Margaret
Sampson was not watching.
Though not independent of
body, Reg Sampson remained
independent of spirit, and some
of this independence he unavail-
ingly tried to instil into his son.
His ill success with all three of
his children pained him mentally
at times almost as much as his
swollen knees and his affected
back and head did physically. He
noticed the difference in Joan,
and recognised it soon enough
as unpleasant. The children
were dominated by the mother.
Margaret Sampson did not
consider Reg Sampson a proper
match for her, and often, by
signs and words to the family or
to outsiders, indicated that the
best a superior person could do
when wedded by mistake to an
inferior person, in breeding,
education and social graces, was
to offer forbearance, which she
did when she was not obviously
mortified by some hearty indis-
cretion of Reg’s, such as —to the
minister —“I rode that bleedin’
horse till he didn’t know if he
was punched or bored.” The
minister went red, trying to with-
hold his laughter under the prim
disapproval of Mrs. Sampson.
As the arthritis further and
further demobilised him and
stiffened him in a heavy stoop,
giving him precarious balance on
bandy, inflexible legs, Reg had
to be undressed and dressed by
Eileen. She, being the youngest,
was allotted the task for her
greater innocence, and held it
into young womanhood because
of her understanding and love
for the old man. While Mrs.
Sampson bestowed favors on
Joan, Reg bestowed a gruff
gratitude on his golden-haired
“baby.” John, being the son,
received equal consideration
from both and was spoiled by
his sisters.
TOURING the last few years
Reg Sampson’s continuous
pain and crippled condition had
grown past the point of normal
endurance. Any unwise but
challenging effort, such as the
attempt to chop more than a
couple of blocks of wood at a
time, cost him his martyrdom.
The tears would move into his
eyes and roll down his sallow
cheeks; his broad face would
strain with the agony and his
great hands tremble.
The endurance was getting
beyond him, and the inevitable
end of becoming bedridden rose
like a cold and dreadful fear
before him. His family had small
comfort to offer him, while Mrs.
Sampson, strong, indomitable,
stem, exasperated at having an
invalid on her hands, governed
the generosity of the children’s
affection to him. The affection
was there; but it was carefully
and jealously watched by the
mother. The pain, above all
else, maddened him, not vio-
lently, but insidiously.
Ross Barlow met him in town
one morning, as he was labori-
ously climbing down from his
sulky, laden with stocks and
marigolds. Ross knew him and
the family through Eileen, with
whom he was going steady, much
to Mrs. Sampson’s displeasure.
Ross was only a C-grade reporter
with the Stanton “Bulletin” and
his father was a saddle-mender
in a small way, two facts which
made him hardly eligible.
“Hullo, Mr. Sampson,” he
said. “Can I help?”
“You’re very brave to offer
me help, Ross me boy. I oughta
knock y’r block off for y’r
blasted cheek. Hand me the
blooms on the other side, and
thank y’r lucky stars I’ll let
you do that much.”
“Right. Here you are. They’re
beauties, aren’t they?”
“Not bad, not” He slipped
on the footpath, and, as the
agony broke and flowed in his
knees and back, distorting his
face, his manner dissolved and
he said in answer to Ross’s
expression of concern, “Some-
times, Ross, I don’t think life’s
worth livin’ now. I’ve had a
good innin’s and I’d be better
off dead. But” recovering
“don’t print that or I’ll tan
you with me old spurs.”
Ross Barlow kept remember-
ing the words, because they
were spoken as if Reg Sampson
were directly threatening him-
self, and because Ross believed
the old man would never seri-
ously listen to them.
Every Monday morning when
Reg Sampson brought his
flowers to town he would, after
having distributed them to the
florists, pay his weekly call on
Dr. Parry. Jim Parry had told
him long ago there was very
little any doctor could do to
alleviate or arrest his complaint,
let alone cure it. “You’ve got
a very bad dose, old chap, and
all that can be done I’m doing.”
And visits to specialists in the
city confirmed this statement.
But Reg looked forward to his
Monday mornings at the sur-
gery. Sometimes, if the waiting-
room was full of patients, he
would be with Dr. Parry for
perhaps no more than ten
minutes, but other times the
visit might last half an hour or
longer. Reg found in Jim Parry
the kinship of age and the quali-
ties of a father-confessor as well
as a doctor ; to him alone he
felt he could unburden the
grotesque viciousness of his
pain and the secret frustration
and unhappiness at home aggra-
vated by his physical ineptitude.
Both his pain and his home
were now, by necessity, all his
world, a world he hated and
feared despite the cheering but
too-sporadic flashes of love from
Eileen and John which, momen-
tarily lighting his darkness, left
it afterwards darker than before.
There was hardly a facet of
Reg’s life and personality which
Jim Parry did not in the end
know of ; he heard it all because
he realised the one thing he could
do for Reg Sampson was to
invite it and keep it secret by a
bond which, Reg recognised,
transcended professional ethics.
Reg also knew much that was
untold about Dr. Parry, and this
unviolated exchange of confi-
dence, of story for story, of ex-
perience for experience, added
to the abiding mutual respect
between the two men. “But, oh
God, Jim,” Reg would almost
invariably say at the end of a
visit, “I wish you could really
knock this swinish trouble out
of me system.” In Jim Parry’s
sigh there would be more than
resignation; there would be
humility, and the heart-pain of
ineffectuality in front of a
friend.
1>EG SAMPSON slid a bullet
•**- into the .22 rifle, snapped
the breech on it, and limped to
the back-stairs, descending along
them by bringing one foot
slowly down to rest beside the
other. There was no one to
watch him ; it was Sunday morn-
ing and Mrs. Sampson, Joan,
John and Eileen were all at
church. The tears came freely to
his eyes. He glanced once, dur-
ing tiie descent, in the direction
of the woodshed at the bottom
of the yard, standing beyond the
rows of clustering flowers.
{Continued on next page )


BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WAMCER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.IS6.t2A
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(.Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALISS OFFICE:
18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE. MANAGER.
. ..
Reg Sampson’s woodshed was
made from half a 500-gallon
galvanised-iron tank. The town
council’s health-inspector had
condemned the tank five years
ago. Reg protested, but the in-
spector was adamant. “You silly
old bean,” Tim Hodgson said
kindly, “it’s a menace, a breed-
ing-place for mosquitoes and
God knows what variety of
wogs. Anyhow, you’ve got no
more room to plug it. It’s so
holey and rusty that you could
come right out here tomorrow
morning and find the ground
wet with your precious rain-
water and nothing but a heap of
decomposed iron lying like red
dust on your tankstand.”
Tim gave the plug-studded
surface of the tank an ungentle
slap with a big rough hand and
one of the wooden plugs
loosened and water seeped
through, wetting the rag that
muffled the plug.
When Reg had used all the
water in the tank, which
amounted to only a few rings—
it was the dry season —sadly he
dismounted it, and a new one
was duly installed, paid for by
Mrs. Sampson, but not without
some annoyance and close cross-
questioning as if she held him
responsible for the old tank’s
condition. She was slightly molli-
fied when Reg thought of cutting
it in half and placing one semi-
circle in the fowlyard and the
other against the fence that
separated the Sampsons’ acre
from the neighboring golf-
course.
The floor of the tank collapsed
as he was cutting it, so that waS
thrown on the scrap-heap; but
the fence, which was high if
rather badly boarded, enabling
the wind to whistle through the
narrow gaps, made a passable
back to the structure when it was
set against it. Reg transferred
the wood from underneath the
house to beneath the half-tank,
and so the Sampsons had then-
new woodshed and Reg had
more space under the house for
his gardening-tools.
He did not arrange the wood
right against the fence in the
woodshed but about two feet in-
wards, just in case a sly hand,
reaching through the fence,
should be able to grasp the
cleanly cut pieces and manoeuvre
them upwards and then over the
fence just where the shed’s roof
rose above it in a segment deep
enough to permit a small block
to pass through.
He piled the wood almost roof-
high. His precaution in piling it
a couple of feet from the fence,
for such a reason, was entirely
cancelled out by the gate. It was
really a door set in the fence,
near where the woodshed stood ;
large enough to allow a Samp-
son to climb through to the golf-
course to collect twigs from the
trees there for supports for the
peas and beans in the garden, or
to allow a golfer to come into
the Sampsons’ acre to retrieve his
golf ball. The gate was on a
latch and was never locked.
AS Reg Sampson reached the
foot of the stairs and turned
awkwardly to the path that led
to the woodshed, the golfer on
Number Nine tee hit off. It was
a powerful but a faulty stroke.
The ball, sliced, sped tinily into
the easterly wind and curved
over the fairway, swinging out,
with the wind upon it, and
under the momentum of the
slice sped towards the gumtrees
standing off the fairway near the
Sampsons’ fence.
The golfer, a diminished figure
in the distance, watched it with
hands on hips, in evident dis-
gust. He looked about him and
seemed glad that it was Sunday
morning and that there were
few people as yet on the links
to see the bad shot, and that
those who were were a couple
of tees away and apparently en-
grossed in their own problems of
coping with the wind, which
swept up over the course in a
strong release from the bulwark
of the mountain’s edge rising
above the valley below.
Reg Sampson and the golfer
were shut off from each other’s
sight by the fence and the trees ;
but even had they not been,
neither would have been likely
to see the other. Reg’s mind
was occupied with the enormity
and despair of its thoughts and
his streaming eyes could barely
distinguish the path in front of
him. He stumbled against the
flower-beds and kicked up loose
dirt and broke slender stems in
the struggle and crippled blunder-
ing of his walk. The rifle was
tucked under his arm, barrel
down, in hunter fashion.
The golfer’s head was raised,
following the truancy of the ball.
It crashed through the foliage of
the gumtrees, but Reg did not
hear it. Then, its flight broken,
it struck the ground steeply and
bounced once, coming sharply
up against the fence that backed
the woodshed. It rebounded to
the trunk of an opposite tree and
ran whitely and lightly at an
angle in the direction of the
fence again, petering-out in its
movement among tufts of grass
that made it bob and hop before
it settled down, with a spin, in
a groove of ground about six
feet from the rear of the wood-
shed. With its position fixed in
his mind, the golfer way over
on the tee turned as if he had
shrugged, picked up his bag, and
began to walk leisurely down
the fairway towards the trees
and the fence.
When Reg reached the wood-
shed he stooped painfully under-
neath its low iron roof. Lean-
ing the rifle against one end of
the pile of wood with its muzzle
touching the roof, he started
pulling out pieces of wood from
the other end of the pile. He
made a gap in the pile, from
roof to ground; picked up the
rifle again and clambered
through to the space between the
pile and the fence. Carefully,
with perspiration standing out
on his broad sallow face and
clenching his teeth on the agony
of the pressure on his swollen
knees caused by his crouching
position, he reset from the fence-
side the displaced wood as high
as he could. He had to leave a
large number of pieces lying on
the other side, so that there was
still a gap half-way down from
the roof. With a groan, he let it
be.
He slid down into a distorted
sitting-posture, leaning with his
head against the wood ; the pain
racked every part of his body.
He sobbed gutturally as he
raised the rifle and turned its
muzzle inward towards him by
revolving it vertically on its
breech. He averted his face
towards the fence, clumsily
prodded the muzzle against his
temple, and his finger sought the
trigger. He closed his eyes.
Tensely he maintained his
position for about half a minute.
The finger, touching the trigger,
trembled ; his eyes were squeezed
shut as if to close out all sight,
and all sound, of a world that
was about to disappear in a roar
and a lightning-flash. Then,
nervelessly, he let the rifle tumble
down against him. With great
hands he covered his closed eyes
and uncontrollably cried —a des-
perate, low, sirenous sort of
sound, like a grievous wail,
emanating as if from a sorrow
too large for a heart to hold
without breaking.
'THE golfer, coming through
the trees, heard it, and
stopped in an attitude of in-
credulous listening; then re-
sumed his walk towards the
fence, stealthily. As he stooped
to pick up the ball he looked
keenly at the part of the fence
‘ that walled-in the woodshed.
Through the spaces between the
old dark boards flawed by green
fungi, he discerned a movement
and what appeared to be the
hulking body of a man lying
immured behind a wall of wood.
He slipped the ball into his
pocket, laid his golf-bag on the
ground and, with another glance
to see whether he was observed,
straightened up and walked on
tiptoe to the gate.
Through his semi-coma of
pain, remorse, fear, Reg Samp-
son heard the gate-latch click,
a small metallic sound that by its
very diminutiveness pierced the
blanket-thick oblivion his in-
verted thoughts and agony
swaddled round him when the
breadth of other sounds, such as
that of a golf-ball falling through
foliage, could not; they bore too
much the identity of the sur-
rounding day, now become an
unreality.
Only sharply-sensed things
were reality, stark and frighten-
ing, like the rifle’s cold muzzle
against his temple, like the sound
of the latch on the gate. The
feel of the rifle-muzzle had dis-
sembled his resolve in a break-
ing horror. The sound of the
latch reassembled his wits below
the laminations of his mental
and physical agony, and he
stopped crying, lying still, with
his mind fighting to alertness
and his heart beating hurriedly
in the panic a man feels when his
weakness, of which he has
already decided to repent, is
about to be unexpectedly dis-
covered.
There was the sound of in-
cautious footfall and then
silence. Reg instinctively felt that
someone was standing in front
of the woodshed, waiting. Then
a voice said, “Who’s there?”
Reg lay rigid, his ears unable
to recognise the voice. He felt
a small relief that whoever it was
would be a stranger and not a
neighbor or one of the family;
but the relief died out in the
realisation that a secret dis-
covered to a stranger could
hardly be explained ; his presence
with a rifle in such a ridiculous
place would be plainly regarded
as a madness, and it was not that
. . , not that . . . though some
might call it a folly.
Carefully a man’s head ap-
peared in the gap in the wood
above him, and for a few seconds
the two men gazed at each other,
the one with a blanched face
stricken with despair, the other,
with quick eyes that understood
the situation at a glance.
“God in heaven,” said Reg
Sampson, lowering his head as
if under the weight of stupefac-
tion. .
“Give me that thing.”
Mechanically, with a kind of
decrepit denial of its significance
in his gesture, Reg surrendered
the rifle to the other man.
The golfer stretched out a
hand. A scar like a bruise
showed on his wrist. He took the
rifle, muzzle-first, keeping it
pointed across his shoulder as he
leaned through the gap. Then
he quickly disappeared with it,
and, as quickly, reappeared, this
time holding the rifle with its
muzzle pointing inwards to the
crippled man.
“Here,” he said, and, seizing
Reg Sampson by the stiff grey
hair on his head, wrenched the
amazed face around, stuck the
nozzle into its temple and pulled
the trigger.
COME still say it was an over-
sight on the part of the
minister or the church-grounds-
man that the front-gates were
locked. Whether or not, the
hearse had to pull round to the
side-entrance of the church in
the laneway, after the hearse
attendants had unavailingly and
decorously as possible attempted
to force the lock and chain of
the main-gates. So the coffin was
taken in the side-entrance and
left by the same door after the
service.
Mrs. Sampson was shocked,
and often afterwards complained
to her church confidants that this
had happened because Reginald
had committed suicide instead
of dying properly. She gave such
meaning to the incident she
could not talk of it without con-
cluding, amidst a host of ag-
grieved tears, that it was the
judgment of the church on a
wayward soul; the shame of it
led her to believe Reginald was
for ever ostracised from heaven,
where, in spite of her wifely dis-
like of him, she would have
wanted him to go if only as a
favorable reflection upon the
name she and his children bore.
But she had herself to blame;
she would insist that his funeral
should leave from the big
church in town and not from
the little unpretentious church in
the outer suburb where the
Sampsons lived. The minister
there would never have forgotten
to have the gates open or de-
signed to have them shut on
Reg, no matter how Reg had
chosen to die.
There was no reasonable
doubt about the manner of his
death. There was the note he
left saying he could not bear
the pain any longer, and Ross
Barlow recalled Reg’s words to
him in town one morning; there
was the premeditation evident in
the way he had gone away so
secretively in a corner to end
his life; then there was the time
and means he had selected ; and
—a few days later at the inquest
—there was to be the legal seal
of the coroner’s verdict, given
after these and other factors had
been considered . . .
John on going to the shed for
firewood had found his father’s
inert body there with the rifle
across it.
The medical officer, Dr. Parry,
said the bullet which had caused
death had been fired from the
rifle, and in his opinion the
wound could have been self-
inflicted.
The local police testified there
was no evidence of foul play;
the only fingerprints on the
weapon were those of the de-
ceased, the position of the
weapon gave no cause for sus-
picion, and the only footprints
around the woodshed were
those of the Sampson family.
There were marks of golfers’
shoes near the gate with the
latch, but they seemed neither
new or unusual; the gate was
frequently used by golfers when
they wished to retrieve their
golf-balls. Besides this, there
appeared no reason why anyone
should want to harm the
deceased; he was liked by
everybody
ALL Reg’s friends were at the
church, and the place was
packed. In this Mrs. Sampson
did contrive to find some com-
fort, although she could have
wished they were not so plainly a
mixed crowd.
She was pleased to see the man
in the mustard-colored suit who
sat a trifle divorced from all the
others at the far end of the back
pew, underneath the colored
window ; she thought how nice
it was of Dr. Parry to have taken
time off from his rounds or his
surgery to say good-bye to
Reginald. His presence raised
the tone of the mourners in the
church.
Dr. Parry sat forward quite
motionless, with no expression
at all on his face. His right
hand, extended, rested on the
back of the pew in front of him.
His sleeve was drawn slightly
along his arm to expose the scar
that was like a bruise on his
wrist, and he was gazing at this.
It was impossible to tell what he
was thinking.
THE PAEAN
Daylight, and the desert stars
blaze in fires blue and cold.
East, the bounding line of earth
quickens, fused with livid gold.
Dark the circling regions lie:
ache of gibber-plain, the yawn
of barren ravined ranges, while
the bore-head smokes into the
dawn.
From the purple hollowed plain
clamor wakens shrill and loud,
and in thousands rise the birds:
streaming in a far dark cloud. t
On the burning east that host
soars, then bursts in shrill pro-
longed
crescendo, and the molten gold
with the showering birds is
thronged.
Circling, all that screaming cloud
planes to earth, its paean done.
And the desert’s bared raw
wound
stares into the rising sun.
N.S.W.
Roland E. Robinson.


The Games Themselves Should Be Good!
Olympic Blow-ups
By C. McNEIL
W\Y back on April 29,
1949, the International
Olympic Committee an-
nounced in Rome that
the 1956 Olympic Games should
be held in Melbourne.
Commenting, the sports editor
of the “Los Angeles Examiner,”
A 1 Santoro, wrote: “They can
really put on a show down
there in Australia.”
The president of the Southern
Californian Olympic Commit-
tee, Paul Helms, went one better:
“I believe Australia will do a
bang-up job.”
So far their predictions have
been alarmingly accurate.
One thing seems sure—our
1956 Olympic Games will be
historic. They’re historic
already, and they haven’t been
held yet.
It is possible that some of the
things that have happened to us
used to happen when they were
getting ready for the Games in
the shadow of Mount Olympus,
back in the old barefoot-sprinting
days.
No doubt every country that
has staged the Games since then
has had its moments of wonder-
ing. Will it have the stadiums
ready in time? What will visi-
tors think of its hotels? And
what about that quarantine law
which may bar the importing of
athletes who could carry foot-
and-mouth disease?
But Australia has probably set
already some sort of Olympic
record with the number of big,
two-powder headaches suffered
by some of its Olympic organ-
isers and its average loyal citi-
zens who would like to see
things go along nice and quietly.
The Victorian Racing Club
fired the first shot in May, 1950.
The club had by then learned
that the Games would start late
in October, 1956, and would
carry on into November. The
athletes would be hard at it on
the first Tuesday in November —
Melbourne Cup day! A clash
between two such important
sporting fixtures could be serious,
the club felt.
That is, serious for the club.
The club worried a lot about
this angle. Vocally. It probably
spent the price of a couple of
yearlings on headache cures.
Had it been swabbed at the
time it would have been a job
for the stipes.
If it had thought more it might
have come to a different con-
clusion. It might have realised-
that by billing the Cup “Aus-
tralia’s Greatest Horserace” it
would probably find Reming-
ton not big enough to hold them
all. By that first Tuesday in
November some of the gloss
and novelty might have worn off
the Games. The Cup would
probably have its usual devoted
thousands, plus every visitor
who likes to play the ponies.
But back in May, 1950, the
V.R.C. did not see it that way.
It complained loudly. The Hel-
sinki Games had not even been
decided then, but “amateur
sporting authorities” went on
record as thinking that the
Games Organising Committee
would be forced to ask the Inter-
national Olympic Congress to
find another place. Not for the
Cup. For the Games.
That one died a natural death.
In August, 1951—with a full
five years to go—someone
noticed that Melbourne had yet
to strike its first blow towards
building something to house the
Games. Why on earth were there
only blueprints and more blue-
prints, no beds for the visitors,
no stadiums for the runners, no
civilised drinking laws?
Melbourne’s then Lord Mayor,
Sir James Disney, caught the
fever with: “If we can’t stage
the Games we should hand Aus-
tralia back to the abos.”
That one was pushed aside to
simmer, and it’s still simmering,
like milk, with an occasional
boil-over.
Three months passed, and after
a “fiery meeting” the organising
committee of the Games selected
a site for the main stadium.
This was the Melbourne Cricket
Ground.
The selection was subject to
the approval of the M.C.G The
trustees had raised some objec-
tions that work on the ground
would upset its draining and
ruin it for cricket and football.
The M.C.G. held a meeting
of its own. It said “Nertz” to
the Olympic Committee’s selec-
tion. Those “athletic officials”
were in print again, saying that
the M.C.G. trustees’ decision
would probably mean Mel-
bourne losing the Olympics.
The flap was enormous.
Underneath all the row the
officials of the Carlton Cricket
Ground held a quiet little meet-
ing, and it was announced in
March, 1952, that the Games
would be held on the Carlton
ground.
Soon, someone was making
moves backstage to have the
site switched again to the Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground.
It is an interesting point that
these moves came only after it
was learned that the proposed
stadium at Carlton would seat
about 125,000, with nearly 90,000
of them under shelter, and that
the big Victorian Football
League was in two minds
whether it should renew its lease
of the M.C.G. or start a new
one at Carlton.
Anyway, the M.C.G. trustees
suddenly unanimously decided
to offer their ground for the
Games, after all—to hell with
the drainage and the cricket and
the football.
A big conference of all parties,
on February 2, 1953, chose the
M.C.G. as the site.
Architects swore bitterly and
tore up their plans (one of them
later received a five-figure settle-
ment for his wasted time on the
Carlton project).
At this stage a man named
Avery Brundage came into the
picture for the first time. He
said in Chicago that Melbourne
would lose its chance of staging
the Games unless officials
stopped quarrelling.
Time approximately four
years still to go—was running
drastically short, he said.
Only quite recently was it
learned that Mr. Brundage is a
sort of Olympic'efficiency expert,
and that he has made similar
pronouncements just about
everywhere there have been
Olympic Games in his time.
Back in February, 1953, he was
as good as unheard of. He might
have been a hippopotamus
expert. He sounded like one.
A little later an Aus-
tralian senior representative on
the International Olympic Com-
mittee resigned his job through
“pressure of business.”
Mr. Brundage got on the
blower again. The United States
Olympic Committee was worried
at the outlook, he said. The
world was watching us, and the
world was disturbed.
There were exactly three years
and eight months before the
Games were due to start, but
Mr. Brundage appeared to have
measured the period with a
stop-watch.
He added a dark warning:
There were plenty of other
places in the world that would
have been more convenient to
visitors and athletes than Mel-
bourne.
He even dropped a hint like a
tombstone that Melbourne
should forget about holding the
Games.
Here, a lone voice cried out in
the wilderness. The secretary of
the Australian Olympic Federa-
tion, Mr. Edgar Tanner, in
March, 1953, announced that
Melbourne was further ahead in
its plans than any other Olympic
city had been even two years
before a Games deadline.
He had scarcely closed his
mouth when the Army let off a
barrage. The plan to use some
of its Albert Park (Melbourne)
barracks as an Olympic Village
was not regimental and could
not be tolerated.
Federal Cabinet backed up the
Army and things looked glum
again.
"We cant get on with the game until she lays another."
We had only a matter of a
couple of days in which to save
our bacon, but we did.
The Prime Minister, Mr.
Menzies, stopped a rash of inter-
national cables by offering the
Victorian Government a £2 mil-
lion loan to build an Olympic
Village. The Victorian Cabinet
decided to accept it.
On April 19, 1953, the Inter-
national Olympic Games Com-
mittee met in Mexico City.
It discussed our progress with
the Games for nearly three
hours; then its Chancellor, Mr.
Otto Maher, announced that
Australia would keep the
Games (cheers).
There was some smaller
wrangling over the site of the
Olympic-pool for Melbourne,
but that sorted itself out.
There was a big boil-up over
our quarantine laws. They
would can the equestrian events!
The laws would mean that
horses would have to be kept in
England or New Zealand for at
least six months before the
Games. This was ruled out by
all hands as impracticable, and
it was decided to hold the eques-
trian events in Stockholm. As is
probably known, an Australian
team is overseas now, getting
its eye in.
That all fixed, wrangling got
down onto a different plane. For
a while there was some discus-
sion as to who would be ac-
ceptable as an amateur.
One Australian official said
that even people who, as
children, had won cash-prizes for
sack-races or the more difficult
egg-and-spoon race would be
classified as professionals.
Then the Olympic Flame came
up for discussion. You can’t
carry a cigarette-lighter (offi-
cially) on an aeroplane, so how
about a full-blown flaming Olym-
pic Torch? Definitely not, said
the airline companies.
After deep thought, someone
worked out a solution.
When the Greek maidens on
Mount Olympus get their olive-
twigs burning with a magnifying-
glass, and fight the torch, run-
ners could carry it cross-country
to some handy airport. Then the
flame would be housed in a
miner’s safety-lamp for the air-
trip.
Someone else pointed out that
it would be just as easy to bring
it by boat.
However, the Air Age won,
and Qantas will do the job.
For a while there was com-
plete calm. Little things were
discussed. The Australian
Olympic officials announced that
they had made cunning moves
to trick forgers. There would be
secret watermarks on the Games
tickets. The tickets, 6in. by 3£in.,
would bear a map of Australia,
the Olympic Torch, and the five
Olympic circles. The tickets
would come in a different color
for each of the 15 days of the
Games. They would be put up
by the Victorian Government
Printer and would be as hard
to forge as bank-notes.
Subsequently it was announced
that the tickets would cost any-
thing from ss. 4d. to £5 Is.
After that, they got down to
the ordering of equipment for
the Games. The first orders were
being placed earlier this year,
some £60,000-worth. The gear
included 15 dozen hockey-balls
and 35 yachts.
Thus encouraged, Russia an-
nounced that she would be
sending us 400 athletes. This
despite the Petrov affair, in
which Australia and Russia
broke off diplomatic relations.
It should be interesting to
watch the relations being
cemented again before the Rus-
sian athletes are due. The
chasm is wide enough at present.
There has been no official com-
ment on its effect on the Games ;
probably Canberra plans to
throw some sort of bridge across
when the time comes.
Yet another flare-up hap-
pened last January, with the im-
portation of a sample starting-
pistol.
The Victorian Police im-
pounded the weapon, and one
of their officers was quoted as
saying that the Firearms Act
.should not be altered for a “fly-
by-night” show like the Games.
A higher officer stepped in and
said that the starting-pistols
would be all right provided the
Olympic Games Committee kept
a tight hand on them when they
were not actually in use —that is,
for starting purposes.
It didn’t end there, however.
Australian pentathlon entrants
hit the roof. They would be
needing real pistols, and so
would the competitors from
overseas (purely, it seems, for
practising purposes). They would
need to have the pistols all the
time, not just when they were on
the range. Pistol-shots, it seems,
like to practise aiming for long
periods away from the range to
strengthen their arm, and to get
the balance of the pistol they will
use.
The pistol matter is still up
in the air. The latest buzz came
over the cables last week.
“International Olympic authori-
ties demanded” appropriate
stand-and-deliver stuff that
Australia shall permit free entry
of “competitors and competition
firearms.”
Assurances assured. Fire
away boys! . . .
Another flare-up occurred
after the Swiss reported that they
were making 450 special stop-
watches for timing events at the
Games.
Immediately stop - watches
were mentioned, Mr. Brundage
went into action again. He said
he would come to Australia and
see for himself. He was con-
cerned about reports of a lack of
accommodation and that car-
penters had gone on strike
temporarily at the Games-site.
Official reports had been good,
but unofficial leaks had been
bad —so he said when he touched
down at Mascot on his way to
Melbourne.
In Melbourne Mr. Brundage
showed his worth with a really
Olympian somersault. On April
4, he was reported as saying that,
as far as he knew, Melbourne
ran no risk of losing the Games.
On April 11 he bitterly at-
tacked the whole set-up, said
there were four cities in the
world that could take the Games
over from us even at this stage,
and declared that he would see
Menzies.
He went off back to America
after getting the Prime Minister’s
assurance that the Games would
be a success.
In America Mr. Brundage let
off more steam. This produced a
retort blow-off from some kindly
U.S. scribes. They pointed out
that, while Mr. Brundage might
have been upset at seeing our
carpenters hitting only one nail
at a time, we were, after all, still
a year or more off the Games.
Moreover, they said, carpenters
were still hammering on the day
the 1932 Olympics opened in
Los Angeles.
That brings us up to now. For
the moment all seems quiet.
Work on the Games-site is going
ahead. Airlines and shipping-
companies have heavy bookings
for October, 1956, and already
Melbourne’s accommodation for
the Games-period is at a
premium.
What may be ahead is any-
body’s guess. But, despite Mr.
Brundage and all that, it is still
physically possible for the
Games to open on time, and be
a resounding success.


m iP-C
S-.'-.-lP
layer
as you
Ike #/
§
Tooth's
BREWED
ES
AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIM
Logoff
ED
KB-187-Iflj
- Ml ftU-BRITISH
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib! A
m
m
#
Prices from
25'- to 90'-
Cives Character
to your Writing
CONWAY STEWART • 00. LTD. lONOOM
SPORTING NOTIONS
New Zealander King’s Fair
galloped his way to favoritism
for the Doomben Ten Thousand
when he easily defeated strong
opposition in the Lightning
Handicap on the final day of the
Q. winter carnival. Despite
slightly holding going, he covered
the five furlongs in 59sec., half
a second outside the record set
last year by Gresford, who was
among the beaten horses on this
occasion. King’s Fair from 11
starts has won nine times.
Queensland’s leading jockey,
R. Maddock, piloted five of the
eight winners in Brisbane on
Saturday. Maddock’s feat has
been equalled. W. Briscoe, who
has announced his retirement,
rode five winners at the same
track in December, 1936. W.
Cook had five wins at Rand-
wick in March, 1951, while D.
Weir rode the programme (six
races) at Newcastle in December,
1953. Twenty-five years ago at
Moorefield —which closes as a
training track in a week or two
—E. Bartle rode six winners and
a second. Country jockey J.
Marsh was also in the news last
Saturday; he rode five winners
at Cowra.
• m • •
Melbourne punters were on
the wrong leg at Caulfield, where
only one favorite won. The
33-to-l Manton won the First
Minook Two-year-old Handicap
for owner W. R. Kemball,
whose Plush won the second
Minook. Both geldings are
trained by K. Hilton and both
are by the imported sire Red
Mars, a son of Hyperion. Red
Mars, an English winner, is sire
of many winners, including Red
Jester, whose 17 successes
included an A.J.C. All-aged
Stakes.
Caulfield punters went in
big on Clear Springs and Liquid
Fire-rr-the latter a good mud-
runner outed in Sydney for
bleeding—in the Rosny Plate
and came a rosener. Royal
Ascot finished brilliantly wide
of the field and got a photo.-
verdict from Sashay and Golden
Liege.
By the Way, eight-year-old
Parenthesis gelding who won
the G.N. Hurdle in 1952, won
the Caulfield Toolambool
Hurdle on Saturday by 10
lengths, carrying 10.10 (41b.
over G.N. weight) in heavy
going. The Caulfield Steeple
was no guide to the G.N. one.
Big weights and heavy mud kept
all the cracks back, and Aussie
Bear (9.11) wallowed home from
Lan Tau (9.9) and Calish (10.6).
Slogan II cleared out with “the
last” at Warwick Farm. More
will be heard from this latest
invader from New Zealand.
On breeding, Canbour, Rand-
wick Maiden winner, could go
a long way in racing, even though
it took him the best part of a
couple of seasons to open his
account. He is by Helios (imp.)
from Felbeam, a smart sprinter
who twice won the A.J.C. Chal-
lenge Stakes. Canbour’s family
lines include Prince Bardolph, a
winner of the Sydney Cup and
other staying races.
When in training there were
few faster track gallopers than
the grey Snow Star. Owned by
J. Bendrodt, he once ran three
furlongs in 35sec., a record
which has not been beaten. Most
of the Snow Star’s have won
sprint events, and an addition to
the list, Snow Dust, a grey colt
from Lady Rosehill, scored in
good style at Hawkesbury in a
Two-year-old and three days
later easily won Warwick Farm
Second Novice. Bred at Railway
Stud, Merriwa (N.S.W.), by
Mrs. C. I. Viles, Snow Dust is
a brother to Juggler. His dam is
a Pentheus mare from Cool
Melba by Cooltrim (imp).
Madam Patch, another of the
Snow Star’s, from Loch Gay by
Assignation (imp.), was also a
winner at Hawkesbury.
• • • •
Arbroath, a V.R.C. St. Leger
and Australian Cup winner, has
a promising younger brother
in the three-year-old Proud
Scot, who easily held off the
opposition in the Warwick Farm
Maiden Handicap. The colt,
raced on lease till November
next by trainer H. Flicker, is by
Angus (imp.) from Glorious
Devon by Devonshire (imp.),
and traces back to Lochiel.
Staying should be his game.
Four-year-old Undaunted had
won a few races before clearing
out with the Warwick Farm 11-
mile Encourage, for which he
was backed from 25’s to 12’s.
He is regarded as a real stayer,
but on this occasion began
much smarter than usual and
had the opposition struggling
from the half-mile onwards.
Shady Lane cantered in with
Warwick Farm Novice for
fillies. She had won races at
Moree and Inverell. A 350gns.
yearling, the filly is by Near
Way (imp.) from Hurangi by
Hua, and has Carbine blood in
her make-up. She is related to
Grand Fils, an A.J.C. Metro-
politan winner.
• «
Though beaten by the shortest
winning margin a nose
midget apprentice J. Gallagher
“ Don't ask ME, son. Whatever your mother tells you to
do, you DO, and don't take any notice of anyone else."
rode a fine race on pacemaker
Master Corrogin against the
more experienced S. Cassidy,
who got Blazeaway home in the
final few strides of the Fraser
Handicap at Warwick Farm.
Gallagher can ride at 6.7.
Blazeaway is a Warwick Farm
specialist. He has had five starts
there for three wins and two
seconds. His trainer, S. Wheeler,
has won 25 races for his patron,
W. T. Rayner, in a little more
than two years, and with four
horses.
* * *
At Sydney’s Harold Park —
last meeting before a six-weeks’
break —a warm night took 19,092
winter-wary trot-fans by sur-
prise. The June Handicap, main
event, was spectacularly won by
Strathfield Jack. Confidently
aware of his horse’s potential,
Phillis allowed him to be
crowded near the tail of the
field. Given his head in the last
lap the Dollar Derby gelding
swept five wide to be challeng-
ing Silver Hero at the turn into
the straight, and went on to
score by three-quarters of a
length; North Mall a solid
third.
Three Springfield Globe
horses kept their sire’s laurels
green with impressive wins at
the meeting. Fresh from an
encouraging Qualifying victory,
Secret Spring was not upset by
the sizzling early pace set by
Legal Claim, and raced on for
a smart win. Gay Patrick and
Percy’s Elect, the other Spring-
field Globe winners, will be in
the money again.
If Sydney trot-fans showed
faith in following Finley’s Air
through six seconds to his
Qualifying win, Gloucester Park
(W.A.) punters who sent French
Gem to the post a five-to-four-
on favorite after nine seconds
must be patience personified.
The Paul Collette chestnut mare
left her 15 opponents struggling
in her wake when she made one
of the cleanest get-aways of an
otherwise checquered career,
and led all the way.
+ +
“Australia showed itself a
washed-out and tired team in
the fifth and last cricket Test
against West Indies yesterday.”
Thus “S. M. Herald” on
13/6/’55, an appropriate date
for capping a whole year of
bellyache cricket “reporting.”
The “washed-out and tired”
answered by making the
highest Test score Australia
has ever made (8-758), winning
the Test by an innings and
82 runs, and taking out the
series 3-0, with the advantage
in the other two Tests.
Apart from that record 758,
there have been some remark-
able feats in the series. Clyde
Walcott became the first bats-
man to make two centuries in
two Tests of the one series (126,
110 in the second; 155, 110 in
the fifth) and first also to make
five centuries in a series. Other
feats include centuries by five
batsmen in the one innings (Aus-
tralia in the fifth); Benaud’s
scorching century among that
five; West Indian Collie Smith
making a century in his first
Test (104 in the first); Keith
Miller’s great all-round efforts;
Langley’s eight catches in the
fifth; the fact that Australia
each time won its three Tests
with only 10 effective men
practically throughout the Test;
and various big totals, mainly by
Australia, and record-breaking
partnerships by both teams.
* * *
Two encounters decided last
Saturday in Melbourne —one at
the ballot-box, one at the Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground —had
expected results. At the M.C.G.
(in particular) it was all mud,
slush and slip, with the locals
better equipped to cope with the
conditions. Victoria easily
defeated W.A. 6.18-3.7, with the
scores a fair reflection of the
necessarily drab game. The
Swans couldn’t get their long-
kicking, open game going, and
were well and truly muzzled by
the mud. Victorian full-back
Henderson, playing an out-
standing game, also did his
share of muzzling, and allowed
Kilmurray only one shot (for a
behind) all day.
* * *
Australian flyweight champion
Frank Bennett fought as a
bantam when, at 8.6, he jousted
with Johnny Jarrett (8.6) at
Leichhardt stadium. Whether
Bennett can still make the fly-
weight limit (8.0) is questionable,
as he did not seem to carry any
superfluous weight. He finished
so full of fight that he seemed to
squeeze home a narrow winner,
although referee Burns gave it
to Jarrett. With plenty of clean
punches Jarrett won the early
rounds, but Bennett fought faster
later, and apparently overhauled
the lead by the 11th. Jarrett
must have thought so, too, as he
fought furiously in the 12th and
was cautioned for swinging Ben-
nett off his feet. Samoan Jimmy
Ripley (9.11) and Alan Cart-
wright (9.8) also turned on a
torrid bout in the 10-rounds
support. Ripley’s forceful fight-
ing earned him a narrow victory.
He * *
“Jock”: Dave Downie, who
won his third bowls champion-
ship of N.S.W. the other day,
learned the rudiments of the
game underground in a coalmine.
At the time electrical-engineer at
the State mine, Lithgow, he was
taught stance and delivery, bowl
in hand, by Harry Dalziel,
veteran bowler and under-
manager of the mine, during
crib-times. The lessons were
given in a deputy’s cabin 200 ft.
underground.
* * *
“Pigi”: Chris Chataway
became the fourth man to break
the four-minute mile when he
tied for second place with Brian
Hewson (England) behind
Hungarian Laszlo Tabori at
White City, London. Running
with Bannister in the first break,
and with Landy in the fastest
mile to date, this is the third
time Chataway has featured in
a four-minute mile but the first
time he himself has cracked it.


"Tales from a Family Diary"
Some Temperamental Stars
By GEORGE LAURI
MELODIES come stealing
through the years . . •
Dani, who came to
Australia because
another —one who later soared
to imperishable fame as Enrico
Caruso —was unable to make
the voyage ; John McCormack ;
John Brownlee; Toti dal
Monte; Apollo Granforte;
Edmund Burke; Gertrude
Johnson; the brilliant Castle
Sisters; Dino Borgioli; Nino
Piccaluga ; Arangi Lombardi;
Francesco Merli; Lina Scavizzi
—and Melba.
Ristori (the Marchesa del
Grillo) brought her Italian com-
pany to Australia in 1875, and
received great acclaim, although
her plays were in Italian.
Names associated with the
great Ristori were the Majeroni
Brothers, who, after separating
from their great star, learnt
English and remained here for
many years in feature-parts.
Unfortunate to be in Austra-
lia at the same time as Ristori
was Madame Janauschek, a
German actress, who would, in
ordinary circumstances, have
proved very successful despite
her slight Teutonic accent ; but
Ristori had firmly enthroned
herself in the hearts of theatre-
goers and Madame Janau-
schek’s tour of Australia suffered
accordingly.
In the year 1892 J. C.
Williamson’s Italian Grand
Opera Company was at the
Princess Theatre in Melbourne,
with Signorina Tancroni Cuttica,
Signor Ercole Cuttica and Signor
Baldo Travaglini in the leading
roles.
Now, in 1955, we once again
have the pleasure of Italian
Grand Opera, with some
brilliant stars.
There are Australian stars
in the company, too; they
rehearsed long and enthusiasti-
cally in Melbourne, where the
company already has been an'
outstanding success.
The Firm has presented
grand opera in Australia on
many occasions, including the
memorable Williamson Melba
season of 1924-28. This was
followed by the Williamson
Imperial Company in 1933. The
Italian Grand Opera Company
was brought to Australia in
August, 1948. Many Australian
artists appeared in this com-
pany, and the outstanding
chorus was entirely Australian.
The season lasted over 14
months, and broke all known
records for grand opera in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand.
Scarcely a world-celebrity in
this sphere has not come to Aus-
tralia under the Williamson or
J. &N. Tait’s direction. Claude
Kingston, now general-manager
for the Firm in Melbourne, has
had more to do with grand-
opera artists in Australia than
most men would care to have
had. And he has fascinating
stories as a well-earned reward.
One of them runs on these lines:
Young and inexperienced ip
the wiles of publicity, yet
willing to learn, I was sent with
the great Nellie Melba to Syd-
ney from Melbourne. In those
days, if I remember rightly, the
train stopped at Moss Vale,
where the passengers could take
breakfast. The next stop was
Sydney.
“Excuse me, sir, Madame
Melba wants that you should
come to her apartment at once,”
the steward had informed me
some time before Moss Vale.
I had made my way to
Madame’s apartment.
“Now, young man,” said
Melba, “have you anything
written for the press, any
statement?”
“I shall write a report at
once,” I replied.
“The press will be at the
station to meet the train and we
must have something ready for
them. I do not want to spend
my breakfast-time talking. I
am hungry.”
Ten minutes before arriving
at Moss Vale I made my way
to Melba’s cabin with the
script. I handed it to her,
waiting to hear the praise I felt
was my due for such a masterly
piece of writing. I can still hear
the praise:
“What is this rubbish? Young
man, you are far too young to
be a press-agent to the Melba!
Keep quiet, and listen to me
talk to the members of the
press!”
Was Madame tearing-up my
lovely script and throwing the
pieces into the air? She was.
They fell like snowflakes round
my shoulders.
The train squealed to a stop.
Melba grasped my arm as we
stepped on to the platform.
The press arrived in full cry.
“Madame Melba, what about the
opera? What”
“Gentlemen, I am not inter-
ested in opera just now, but only
in fleas, fleas, fleas! All the
way from Melbourne I have
suffered! Bitten on every part
of my body! This filthy train!
. . . Do any of you care to
see?” as she raised her skirt
knee-high.
The reporters were scribbling
fast.
“Madame, now that we have
the flea situation well in hand,
how about the opera?”
“I repeat, young man, I am
only interested in the way I have
been assaulted by the fleas in
this dirty train!”
Taking my arm, she dragged
me off to breakfast.
That evening the press in
Sydney ran headlines: “Melba’s
Fleas,” “Melba Eaten Alive by
Fleas, from Melbourne.”
The amount of free publicity
given to Melba over this inci-
dent packed the theatre. Most
of the people came to hear
Melba sing, but I think they
also came to see if she would
scratch. At the final curtain
she did.
The Railways were nearly in
a state of hysteria. Trains were
fumigated. Apologies were
sent to Melba. All this she
took without comment.
As a matter of fact, I myself
had, before leaving Melbourne
on that trip, examined her com-
partment. It had been fumi-
gated and thoroughly cleaned.
I feel sure there was not a
solitary flea on the whole train.
“Young man,” said Melba,
“I hope you have learned some-
thing about publicity and in
being a press-agent to a Star?”
“Yes, M’am,” I replied, and
meant it . . .
There are countless such gems
in Claude Kingston’s experience
of prima donnas and others of
the gifted, and temperamental,
breed. Travelling the length
and breadth of the world he has
the quick understanding and
adaptability to make it easy for
him to handle difficult and
sometimes delicate situations.
He has very often had to wriggle
out of tight corners constructed
by the temperament or jealousies
of some of his artists. Some of
the stories would not bear
repetition; others would fill a
volume.
Galli Curci detested .Melba,
and one of her favorite remarks
about Melba was, “To hear
Melba sing ‘Lo the Gentle
Lark,’ when she has finshed, you
would think it was a turkey.’’
What Melba said about Galli
Curci is in the unprintable
section.
Toti dal Monte and Concato
were deadly rivals during the
first Melba-Williamson season,
and a Pekinese dog had the
misfortune to be the general
battleground for them. Both
insisted upon having it, and very
nearly tore the poor little dog to
pieces in the struggle for
possession.
Paderewski was another tem-
peramental genius. On his last
visit he could not forget that
he had been the President of
Poland, and expected royal
honors. On one occasion, when
Governor-General Lord Stone-
haven was a few minutes late in
arriving at a concert, Paderew-
ski turned sulky.
“I do not know that I feel
much like playing now,” he
remarked. The G.-G. had to
remain standing until the pianist
decided that he would come on
to the stage to play “God Save
the King.”
That happened in the Sydney
Town Hall. What Lord Stone-
haven had to say was audible to
a number of people.
Another of them, Benno
Moisiewitsch, was always a great
gambler. He was to appear at
an orchestral concert one after-
noon. On Claude Kingston’s
arrival he found the famous
pianist all rugged and about to
drive off to the races.
“But you have a concert this
afternoon,” Kingston told him.
“Don’t trouble me with con-
certs, and don’t worry,” Benno
replied as he drove away.
Claude Kingston, in a state of
nerves and with watch in hand,
saw the time flitting away and
no Benno. He was due on at a
quarter to four. At ten to four
Benno calmly sauntered in,
took off his top-coat, and
walked on to the stage in time
to play the Tschaikowsky
Concerto.
The deafening roar of
applause almost took the roof
off. Walking off-stage, without
bothering to take his bow,
Benno buttonholed Kingston.
“What won the fourth race?”
he inquired.
“I don’t know,” said Claude.
“Then find out —if you want
me to finish this concert,” replied
Benno.
When he returned with the
news, Benno said, “Humph, not
so good. I have just lost £100.”
He then went on to play several
encores.
Coming off for a breather,Jhe
remarked that the adjectival race
was run during the 749th bar of
the work he had been playing.
Chaliapin was a difficult man
to cater for and always travelled
a French chef with him,
although his wife was an
excellent cook and, in fact, did
most of the cooking.
Claude Kingston was dining
with him and his wife at their
apartment one evening when the
roast chicken was brought in.
Chaliapin stuck his fork into
it. The bird was not to his
liking. Picking it up in his hand
he flung it across the room, to
bounce off the opposite wall.
I have been told that the
Melba as Juliet
proprietor of the place so
revered the virtuoso that to this
day the grease-stain is still there.
The theatre in Sydney was
sold out for one of Chaliapin’s
concerts, and for an hour before
the doors opened Mrs. Chaliapin
had tried to contact Mr. King-
ston. Chaliapin was “indis-
posed.” This usually meant that
he was in a raging temper, and
Kingston hurried post-haste to
the hotel.
For a while M. Chaliapin
pretended to be asleep ; then he
roared at Claude and in no
uncertain manner ordered him
out of his room.
“The audience —poof! —can
go to the devil! ” he shouted.
Another man might have
argued, or left. Kingston
walked over to the piano and
started playing. The music
soothed the savage Russian.
There was a sudden quiet. Then
Chaliapin called furiously to his
wife:
“My bath! My clothes!
Don’t you know there is a
performance?”
A medallion and watch on a
gold chain given to him by
Chaliapin and his wife are
among other souvenirs Claude
Kingston treasures.
❖ ❖ *l*
/"\F the many lively lads of an
earlier vintage around
Sydney-town, one of the very
brightest was George Bull, of
the old order of bohemian
pressmen. A star-reporter of
the old “Globe,” a forerunner
of the “Sun,” George left
Sydney with an Australian XI
and found London so much to
his liking that he never came
back.
In the Old Country, Bull
became a popular press-agent
for George Edwardes’s theatrical
ventures. Whenever one of
Edwardes’s musical - shows
started to wilt, some Serbian
Consul, Bulgarian Ambassador
or other Balkan big-wig would
write complaining that one of
Edwardes’s actors was insulting
his countrymen by a coarse
caricature of the reigning grand-
or demi-grand-duke. The
resultant publicity considerably
bucked-up the waning show.
George Bull’s fine hand
inspired it all. A bright boy,
Bull.
George’s Sydney efforts in-
cluded the billing one Sunday
at the old Coogee Aquarium of
a most talented virtuoso —
according to George. The
Aquarium, run by “Paragraph”
Larmour, a well-known show-
man, was a favorite rendezvous
of the lads and lasses of the
village.
Bull sent word from town to
Larmour that he had discovered
an Eastern Prince with a wonder-
ful voice. Handbills were
printed and distributed; they
read:
“Prince Dam Poohr Singha,
talented Indian vocalist, will
make his one and only appear-
ance at the Aquarium on Sun-
day. This important engage-
ment has only been secured at
considerable expense,” etc., etc.
Bull had heard the colored
potentate singing outside his
hotel. Between songs the vir-
tuoso sold matches.
At the Aquarium Bull had the
orchestra well primed, and had
instructed the Prince to burst
into song the moment he
appeared on the platform.
The Prince did. He started
to howl “The Man Who Broke
the Bank at Monte Carlo.”
Then, without a pause, he tore
into “Oh, What a Night!” with
the band pounding along a bar
and a half behind, the crowd
rocking with laughter, and
Larmour cursing fluently.
Bull escorted the Prince to
Larmour’s office and demanded
the promised fee of two-guineas.
The showman indignantly
refused to pay. The Prince
went for him, and Larmour fled
screaming.
Nor was this the end of it.
A few chaps scraped together
a seven-and-sixpence fee for old
o Continued on page 30)


LAVS NA
batches of fashion
ir
A Lavina Watch
is not only the per-
fect timepiece, but
also an odornment, a
piece of jewellery
j created for the cur-
rent mode.
Here are shown two
of the latest Lavina
models that conform to
the trend of daintier
watches for ladies and
larger watches for men.
Ask at your favourite
jewellers or watchmakers
to see the newest Lavina
17-jewelled Swiss Master-
piece.
Lavina Prices range from:
Men’s— £l4/5/-; Ladies’—
£l4/10/-.
Choice of Millions since 1852
L 31.42
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
fcTKUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. M ANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in an Country Centres
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RUSSIA—TWO VIEWS
r F'HE first of the following two
views on Russia that of
General Franco —is an excerpt
from a long interview given
by Franco to David Lawrence,
editor of “U.S. News and World
Report.”
The second impression, from
the same publication, is “pieced
together from talks with the
Austrian officials who went to
Moscow to negotiate peace-
terms in the Kremlin.”
In the course of giving his
comments on “things in
Europe,” General Franco told
Lawrence he believed “a superi-
ority is being bestowed upon
Russia to which she is not en-
titled and which she should not
have”:
“For example, the Westerners
say: Russia has a very large
population, Russia has so many
divisions, so many tanks, so
many aircraft, Russia is superior,
we can do nothing with Russia
—we need the atomic bomb.
And I [Franco] ask: ‘What
happens if the atomic bomb is
not used? Is the West superior
or inferior to Russia?’
“I maintain that the West is
superior to Russia even without
the atomic bomb. The nations
of the West have more men than
Russia, they have more industry
than Russia, they have more
intelligence and more technical
preparation than Russia. Then
why concede a superiority to
Russia? Why fear Russia?
“Furthermore, there is another
factor that is more important,
most important: Russia is the
prisoner of the 12 or 14 nations
she has occupied. She has to
maintain order and peace in
some nations that hate her,
including some inside Russia
itself. How many millions of
prisoners are there in concen-
tration-camps in Russia?
“If Russia threatens the West
with aggression—and if the West
has determined on a good
policy and knows how to take
advantage of the characteristics
of those countries which offer
io the West their spirit of
resistance —Russia will have to
expend millions of men in the
occupation of those countries
in order to face the uprising
which could be organised in
those countries.”
Asked by Lawrence if he
thought “the spirit and the
morale of our [the Western]
side is the most important
thing,” Franco replied:
“Perhaps that morale of re-
sistance does not exist in the
minds of some of those on our
side who are managing political
affairs, but in the peoples I
believe the morale is superior
to that in the U.S.S.R.
“Russia can do only easy
things. She never will be able
to stand up against a war of
European insurrection against
her.
“Russia has bought-up the
consciences of many persons in
Europe and America and every-
where else. In France politics
is more easily corrupted; in
America, less so. But in France
and England we have seen men
of position and of good social-
standing who were paid Russian
agents. Have we not observed
even some atomic scientists who
themselves were in the service
of the U.S.S.R.? Russia since
1918 has been making prepara-
tions for the invasion of the
world and has been buying
men’s wills, and nobody asks
how much she has spent on. it.
That is the danger which the
nations of the West face.”
General Franco was then
asked what he thought of the
forthcoming “Big-Four” con-
ferences. He said:
“They are a platform of
propaganda for Russia.
Evidently Russia finds herself
in a difficult situation at this
time and has to save herself.
When Russia takes a step of
friendship, it is because this is
advantageous for her. And, if
that is the case, it is because in
Russia today there are two
problems: one is the internal
problem of the succession to
Stalin, not yet resolved, and the
other is the assimilation of the
occupied nations, which loathe
the presence of Russia. Russia
does not find herself in a strong
situation to confront the West;
she has to gain time and will
gain it as she can.
“For Russia, anything is a
weapon. The United Nations is
a weapon; the Four-Power con-
ference is a weapon, which she
uses marvellously. She converts
everything into an infernal
machine at her service.
“The biggest enemy of China
is Russia, although China isn’t
aware of it. Who, other than
Russia, could devour China?
Who, more than Russia, fears
that China will become great?
The interests of China and of
Russia always have to be com-
pletely opposite. If Russia can
involve China in a war that will
destroy her, she will do it.”
The Austrian officials who
went to Moscow to negotiate the
Austrian Treaty reported that
the rulers at the Kremlin “ap-
peared to be old and cautious
men with little of the revolu-
tionary ardor, of their youth”:
“They do not want to risk
what they have managed to
build up through years of care-
ful political manoeuvring.
Fundamentally, they seem more
conservative than revolutionary.
This is the way they talked to
the Austrians:
“ ‘A rearmed West Germany
can have quite an attraction to
the East Germans now under
Soviet control. Suppose there is
an uprising against the Com-
rrtunists in East Germany. Sup-
pose that Soviet tanks are called
out to restore order. Wouldn’t
troops from West Germany then
jump in? If that happens, and
the U.S. goes to the support of
the West Germans, the Third
World War will be under way.’
“In the Kremlin, fear of the
German military is as vivid as
is the distrust of German
pledges. Bulganin told his
visitors that from 1928 to 1938
the Germans broke all the
treaties they signed. When some-
one argued that there is an im-
portant difference between Hit-
ler’s Germany and the present
West Germany, Bulganin simply
replied that Germany could
break all her pledges in the next
10 years, just as she had in
the past.
“The Russians worry over the
Germans as soldiers and as
highly developed industrialists
who can act as a power-magnet
to pull away loyalty of the
Soviet satellites.
“There is apprehension in
Moscow about the rise of Com-
munist China, too. The Austrians
feel that, in the face of China's
reluctance to let the Kremlin
call all the signals, the Soviet
leaders have come to think of
Russia as primarily a European
Power. Their thoughts are more
in Europe than in Asia.
“The old men in the Kremlin,
grown conservative with the
passing years, are in a defensive
mood caused by fear of a world
war, by the overextension of
their power and by a feeling of
inadequacy when they compare
their resources with those of the
United States.
“There is an air of uncer-
tainty about them. There may
be an inner fight for power, but
it doesn’t show on the surface.
The Soviet leaders are united by
one common aim—to see to it
that no one of them manages to
usurp the power that was
Stalin’s. In these circumstances
they are eager to negotiate with
the West to reduce the chances
of a war that could engulf them
—but they are not yet ready to
make really big concessions to
the U.S. or anyone else.”
The Losers
Press-comments on British
Labor’s future since the elections
are not without some relevance
to the Australian scene.
Typical findings:
“New York Times” : “The six
crucial years that the Laborites
—London “Daily Mirror"
THE OLD MASTER AND PUPIL
had in power from 1945 to 1951
were fruitful and successful on
the whole, but they drained the
party of policies and ideas. In
this election the Laborites had
nothing new or positive to offer.
The death of Ernest Bevin and
Sir Stafford Cripps left irreplace-
able gaps.
“The Labor party is going to
be faced with a long and neces-
sary period of renovation, both
of men and of ideas. And there
will have to be a reckoning with
‘Nye’ Bevan, who is the
Socialists’ heaviest handicap at
the moment.”
* * *
London "News Chronicle" :
“A party which offers itself as
the nation’s only alternative
Government simply cannot
afford the confusions and uncer-
tainties of civil warfare on the
Bevan pattern.
“It was predicted that if
Labor lost the Bevanites would
rise and blame everything on
Mr. Attlee. But the boot is on
the other foot. The Bevanites
at this moment are revealed to
be nobody’s darlings, and Labor
would have done worse, not
better, if it had taken the
‘Tribune’s’ clamorous advice to
move Left.
“What is now offered to Labor
is the opportunity to bring about
internal peace and reform —
reform, particularly, of the
nationalisation projects in which
the bulk even of the Labor can-
didates could not pretend with
any conviction to believe.
“What is now going begging is
the honorable role of an Opposi-
tion which brings unity, convic-
tion and zeal to the task of
opposing.”
* * Pt
“ Yorkshire Post": “In view
of its recent performance and
glaring divisions, the Labor
party may be said to have polled
surprisingly well. It has proved
once more that it commands the
consistent support of a large
body of electors who vote for it
in season and out of season
whatever the follies of some of
its leaders. This blind loyalty
has its pathetic side. But it is
an electoral fact. It means that
Conservatives can never afford
to relax their efforts to poll their
full strength.”
* * •
Edinburgh “Scotsman" : “Cer-
tainly the Socialist leaders did
not distinguish themselves either
in framing or expounding their
collection of promises and
threats which passed for a mani-
festo. Mr. Morgan Phillips, the
Labor secretary, has philosophic-
ally commented that another few
years in Opposition will give the
party a chance to revitalise itself.
It obviously needs to undertake
a search for fresh ideas on
policy and strategy, while the
passage of time may bring for-
ward more dynamic leaders.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail":
“Nationalisation is dead. It is
unlikely that Mr. Attlee will ever
again be Prime Minister or that
Mr. Morrison will reside at No.
10. The Old Guard must give
way to the new.
“On the Right is Mr. Gait-
skell, backed by the trade-
unions. On the Left, Mr. Bevan,
supported by the constituencies.
In the background is a loud
tearing noise as the paper which
covered the Socialist split rips
asunder.
“The two wings are farther
apart in policy and sentiment
than are moderate Conservatives
from moderate Socialists. Per-
haps our [“Daily Mail”] predic-
tion that Labor will one day
break away from Socialism will
become true by 1960.
“However that may be, it is
essential that some acceptable
alternative to Conservatism
should be found. Her Majesty’s
Government must be carried on,
and that can only be properly
done with an Opposition capable
of governing.
“The Socialist-Labor-Attlee-
Bevan confederation are not able
to do so—which is why they are
not in power, and will never be
until they find some common
denominator.”
• * m
“Manchester Guardian":
“Labor stands a very good
chance next time. It must use
its next period in Opposition
more profitably than the last. It
must get the succession to its
leadership settled and it must


Have you got
• ©
r
BEIXS
100% SCOTCH WHISK'!*
OIStIUED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND a
f|D
D| STILLERS «»m SCOTL^
established
a
**»OOUCT or
Htl 6 f L ° ,D
good taste?
We mean ‘good taste’ in the
strict sense. When you
drink whisky, do you taste
it critically ? It’s always
agreeable to be offered
Scotch Whisky. But it’s
memorable to be offered
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky
It brings to mind the burb-
ling of Scottish burns, and
the ripple of ripe barley
fields. If you can sense the
subtle artistry of Bell’s Old
Scotch Whisky—truly you
are a connoisseur.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELLS
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825 .
* •
KEROSENE TILLEY PRESSURE
Read.
Samps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l£ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable front all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
recast its policy, even if it has
to break away from old parrot-
cries about ‘Socialism’ and the
sentimental almsgiving of which
there has been too much.
“The Labor appeal in the elec-
tion was one of Santa Claus,
and the electorate has not liked
it. This is a discovery of some
importance. Labor has too
often thought that votes must be
bought by bribes and gifts.
“The Tories, to their credit,
did not try these tactics this
time and have not suffered.
Labor might accept the lesson
and find in a policy of broad
social reform, of economic
expansion, and of the release of
the people’s energies an attrac-
five substitute for the cramping
policy of controls and fussy
bureaucratic intervention, mixed
with class bribes, to which it has
been too prone.
American Prosperity
Most booms beget fears of
slumps to follow, but the current
upsurge in American prosperity
has features which in the edi-
torial opinion of New York
“Herald Tribune” are “highly
encouraging”:
“It is not a stockmarket
boom or a land-boom or a war-
scare boom. It is not the
treacherous kind of boom that
is synonymous with price-infla-
tion and wage-spirals; nor the
contingent type of boom that is
generated by unusual Govern-
ment-measures in the field of
credit and public finance; nor
the fictitious boom that merely
recovers part of the ground lost
during a previous decline. It is
a boom in production, first and
foremost.”
That definition —a boom in
production—is, the “Herald
Tribune” continues, substanti-
ated by the report of the U.S.
Commerce Department “that
the nation’s total output of
goods and services for the first
three months of the year reached
the record-making annual rate
of $370,000 million and by the
corollary fact that prices are
stable”:
“The identification is con-
firmed by the Federal Reserve
Board report that industrial pro-
duction rose in April to within
one point of the record-high
attained in July, 1953.
“As everyone knows, con-
struction and autos made major
contributions to the total. More
important is the fact that these
two components cannot account
for the general nature of the
rise. Whether one looks at steel
or aluminium, household-goods
or factory-equipment, durables or
non-durables, the indices are
on the upswing.
“We do not have a boom in
general production because auto-
workers are buying homes and
construction-workers are buying
cars. We have it because a wide
distribution of income is finding
expression in a wide distribution
of active spending, and because
this spending is steady enough to
justify the continued expansion
of physical plant and finished-
goods output.”
This boom in production, the
“Herald Tribune” adds, may also
have behind it a boom in pro-
ductivity—an increasing effici-
ency due to “constant innova-
tion, especially of the varieties
associated with automation
[automatic production-lines]”:
“Since booms in productivity
can bring booms in output with-
out corresponding increases in
jobs, concern is frequently ex-
pressed lest we lose the capacity
to employ our willing working-
force. The present production-
boom offers no evident warrant
for such a fear.
“Automation has been with
us for years, but the present up-
surge in output is only eight
months old. The production-
boom has been largely a matter
of getting back into production
the facilities and men forced
into idleness during late 1953
and 1954. Unemployment stood
at 3,465,000 in April, 1954. In
April, 1955, it was down to
2,962,000.”
Also commenting on what it
calls this “new era,” “U.S. News
and World Report” notes that
“pay is good, jobs are plentiful,
money easy to borrow” ; that
marriage is attractive for young
people because new houses are
easy to buy; that “pensions can
be had by almost all, and life-
time security is assured.”
Noting hidden dangers in the
boom, the same paper comments
that “people are plunging
heavily into debt to get the things
they want. They are borrowing
to buy homes, automobiles,
furniture and appliances and
common stocks. They owe about
$72,000 million on the homes
they are buying and almost
$23,000 million in instalment
debt. In fact, just to meet the
payments on past purchases of
consumer-goods, American
families are paying out about
12 per cent, of their after-tax
income.
“It is this sharp rise in debt
that is raising some doubt about
the ‘new-era’ feeling that now
prevails. The Federal Reserve
Board, by twice raising margin
requirements on security-
purchases, has flashed a signal
that stockmarket speculation
may be unwise. Automobile
dealers met in Washington to
consider the effects on future
business of the sharp rise in auto-
instalment debt. Government
housing-officials have warned
their field-officers to keep a
sharp eye on mortgage-borrow-
ing in their areas.
“These are all signs of con-
cern that the present boom, like
most booms of the past, may get
out of hand. But, for the months
immediately ahead, the feeling is
general that good times will
prevail.”
Soviet Industry
While American industry ap-
pears to be flourishing, its Rus-
sian counterpart is, on the
Soviet’s own statements, in a sea
of troubles.
At the recent industrial con-
ference in Moscow, Bulganin
and Khrushchev, as London
“Economist” puts it, did not
“hesitate to criticise openly the
shortcomings or to admit that
in certain spheres Russia is lag-
ging behind advanced Western
techniques”:
“One branch of industry after
another came in for criticism:
the timber-industry—because its
productivity per man rose only
slightly compared with pre-war,
while its equipment was quad-
rupled ; the oil-industry—for
costly and incompetent drilling ;
the steel-industry—for failing to
spread new methods which could
produce at least 1.5 million tons
of crude steel per annum ; the
coal-industry—for not using its
capacity to the full, etc. Insuffi-
cient adaptation of new tech-
niques resulting in low all-round
productivity—this criticism was
the monotonous refrain of the
conference.”
While denying the Russian
claim that production has in-
creased sixfold since planning
was introduced in 1928, the
“Economist” goes on to note
that “there is no doubt that
tremendous progress was made
over that period, thanks to a
real technological revolution”:
“Its pace was most rapid dur-
ing the second five-year plan
(1932-37), when the fruits of the
initial investment were being
gathered; there was a drop dur-
ing the war, but the pre-war level
was recovered by 1948 and pro-
ductivity has continued to rise
fairly rapidly since then. Not
rapidly enough, however, and
to carry out its production-
targets Soviet industry had once
again to rely on the rapid growth
of manpower.
“Why does not the Russian
worker’s productivity come up
to the planners’ expectations?
One of the main reasons must
undoubtedly be sought in the
nature of the newcomers to the
labor-force. Its rapid growth was
made possible only by the
greater employment of women —
who are less productive and
above all by the turning of
muzhiks into industrial workers.
A peasant finds it extremely
difficult to adapt himself to the
rhythm of industrial life, let
alone to master the latest
techniques.
“The American expert Pro-
fessor Galenson has calculated
that on the eve of the war the
productivity of the average
Soviet worker was roughly 40
per cent, of that of his American
counterpart; now it is estimated
at about 50 per cent. Here, how-
ever, the average camouflages
great discrepancies, since the
skilled Soviet workers employed
in the most advanced establish-
ments are as productive as the
Americans.
“This should dispose of the
Western illusion that Soviet pro-
ductivity cannot continue to in-
crease rapidly. Even if we do
not take into account Soviet
capacity to venture in uncharted
roads, there is plenty of scope
for progress merely by bringing
the most backward plants up to
the technical level of the model
establishments and the inefficient
newcomers up to the standard
and skill of the old industrial
workers. This is what Khrush-
chev and Bulganin hope to
achieve through technical educa-
tion and the concentration of
investment in engineering
industries.”
Educating the peasants to in-
dustrial life and techniques may
not be so difficult as mustering
enough of them to educate. As
“New York Times” comments,
the supply is not inexhaustible:
“Rarely have Soviet sources
spoken so openly of the low pro-
ductivity, technological back-
wardness, inefficient planning,
and chaotic lack of co-ordination
which characterise much of
Soviet industry. The result of
these factors is that much of
Soviet production is high-cost
production, thus adding fuejt
to the inflationary fire.
“In the past such defects could
be ignored while abundant sup-
plies of underemployed workers
could be drained from agricul-
ture. Those supplies no longer
exist; the existence of a man-
power shortage in farming is
now recognised ; and it is to the
hard task of raising labor pro-
ductivity that Soviet leaders
must now turn their attention.”
Germany
A further example (from
Dusseldorf “Der Mittag”) of the
kind of neutralist thinking evi-
dent in Germany since Austria
gained its freedom on the condi-
tion that it remains neutral:
“We are learning during these
years that the building of power
blocs is no more helpful to the
pacification of the world than
the old system of independent
nation-States. To the extent that
Nato becomes a powerful de-
fence instrument, it, in turn,
provokes the Soviet Union to
create a still larger and larger
political and military Power in
the East bloc.
“What would happen, one
must ask, if both blocs disap-
peared? Then, without doubt,
the Great-Power position of the
Soviet Union and the United
States would be impaired. With-
out doubt, we would also have
in Europe a confusing co-opera-
tion and non-co-operation be-
tween the foreign policies of
national States. After the experi-
ence of the last two world wars,
this is not a very enticing
prospect.
“But, and this ‘but’ is decisive,
the building of blocs leads to
growing rigidity in policy. Why
should not at least some thought
be given to leaving the Eastern
and Central European nations
out of both blocs?”
Spain
London “Daily Telegraph”
editorial comment:
“As a result of the prejudice
that shut her out for so long,
Spain was admitted too late to
share the lavish outpouring of
American help: money for
foreign aid was harder to screw
out of Congress in 1953.
“Prejudice is slowly breaking-
down ; but Spain remains to
some extent the economic victim
of her own political depend-
ability. Because there is not
the remotest risk that she will
‘go Communist,’ she has been
left to pull hefself up by her
own bootstraps.
“American help is concen-
trated on improving military
efficiency ; and there is justifica-
tion for the Spanish feeling that
the necessary infrastructure of
economic development should
be given more stimulus.
“Helped or unhelped, Spain
is a reliable ally; it is obviously
in the Western interest that she
should be a strong one.”
Commonwealth Trade
Commenting on the increasing
percentage of British food-
imports from within the British
Commonwealth, London “Daily
Express” notes that “in 1951 —
the last year of [Britain’s]
Socialist Government —less than
40 per cent, of all the food
Britain imported came from
Empire lands”:
“By 1952 the figure had risen
to 47 per cent. In 1953 it was
52 per cent. And last year it
was up to 53 per cent. —a total
of £665 million-worth of all
kinds of wholesome food.
“That is a good trend, an
encouraging trend. Always the
policy should be to give first
place in the home-market to the
home-farmers. And after that
to support our own people in
the Empire, on whom the nation
can depend not only in pros-
perous times but in troublous
times, too.”


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australis
JACKS ON
osuttivAjr. /
mm
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
YOU CAN DECIDE
How Many Children
SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERY
The humanitarian scientists, Dr. Knaus, and Dr. Ogino, have
discovered a. means of determining with certainty the exact
time of fertility and sterility in the individual woman. Therefore
from now on one can dispense with poisonous chemicals and harmful
appliances—with all contraceptives as being unethical, unreliable
and opposed by health authorities and religious principles.
A NATURAL METHOD OF BIRTH CONTROL
,• Planning. It is easy to follow and absolutely re-
liable. This Natural System enables people to whom children have
been denied for years to calculate acccurately the woman’s fertile
times and thus know when conception may be fostered. On the other
hand, it encourages young couples to marry early by enabling them
to settle down properly before assuming the responsibilities of
parenthood. Then when both are fittest, they can fix the date for
conception and the birth of their first child and later, according
to circumstances.
THE ELIMINATION OF RISK
In the past, a woman could never be sure; she had to take a big
risk. Now, with the Natural System she can know with certainty.
Thousands of clinical tests have proved it.
CHURCH SANCTIONS NATURAL METHOD
World medical authorities highly recommend it. Dr. Alexandre’s
“MARITAL ADJUSTMENT COURSE” gives complete guidance for
the happy and successful regulation of the marital relationship
in all its aspects. It contains the “WOMAN’S CYCLE CALCULA-
TOR,” invented by DR. B. ALEXANDRE, D.Sc. The information
is guaranteed reliable and enables you to plan your family with
certainty.
Price of FULL COURSE with CALCULATOR £3
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, Dept. 8.N.6, Box 3584, G.P.0., Sydney.
MAIL NOW—DON’T WAIT AND BE SORRY
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, D.Sc., DEPT. 8.N.6, BOX 3584, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. (12 Alan St., Nth. Sydney. Phone XY 6789.)
Please send me, under plain, sealed cover:—
Further information re both. I enclose addressed, stamped envelope.
The CALCULATOR by itself. I enclose £1
The FULL COURSE with CALCULATOR. I enclose £3
NAME (Print)
ADDRESS (State) B.N. 22/6/’55
that made me weave my head
from side to side, I plugged in
my earphones, in the process
discovering that the lead of his
head-set had been blown for six.
“It’s his phones,” I said, “but
he’s had it completely. I’ll try
and get him down if I can.
You’ll have to do your best
without the guns till I can
manage.”
Red’s voice when it came was,
despite his condition, happier
than I had ever known it.
“Blast the guns,” he said.
“They gave it away a long time
ago, might have been years ago.
I was beginning to wonder.
Haven’t heard from anyone for
a bloody age.”
“I hardly like to shift him,
then,” I said. “I’ll do what I
can for him as he is.”
“Is he so bad?” asked Red.
“He kept it up till they gave it
away.”
“He was dead on his seat long
before that,” I said.
“Do what you can and take
your time,” said Red. “There’s
no hurry at all unless this bloody
old crate falls apart.”
“What about you?” I asked.
“Hundred per cent., consider-
ing,” he said, “but Lloyd’s
mightn’t take me on for a bob.”
“What about a course?” I
asked.
“What’s wrong with the one
I used last week?” asked Red.
With the kit Super had been
using on Gig I settled down to
do what I could for Super.
“I could see you back there
for the last half-hour,” said Red,
“but I just had to fret. What’s
the good of these old buses
except to give a driver weaver’s-
bottom? A man ought to go on
strike until they come across
with something that’ll fly while
he stretches his legs. Not that
all the automatic dishwashers
made would keep this bus up
now. One sneeze and we’ll be
into a spiral-dive.”
“I’ll have to try and get him
out,” I said. “He bleeds too
much as he is.”
As I gripped him he woke up
and turned his head as if he
wanted urgently to say some-
thing to me.
“Bert,” I heard him say as I
managed to manoeuvre my ear
close to his mouth, “I got two
and I used the last round.”
“Now take it easy while I get
you down,” I said.
Feeling, as I did, every bit as
bad as he looked, I didn’t find
it easy to move him; but some-
how I did get him down, realis-
ing as I did and as the extent
of his frightful wounds was
more fully revealed to me that
he had undoubtedly fired his last
round, that in doing so he had
miraculously endured far
beyond the bounds of his duty
and that in dying he had prob-
ably saved an aircraft and two
of his friends —an old, useless
crate with everything but the
heart shot out of it and two
worn-out airmen whom nobody
would have missed a great deal.
I got him out at last, laid
him on his back near Gig’s
body and then passed-out cold
beside him. When I came to,
he was speaking almost in my
ear.
“I fired until they left,” he was
saying over and over again, as if
he had been trying to revive me
by saying it,
“Lie back and have a spell
while I fix you up,” I said.
I proceeded <as best I could
with my doctoring, but he kept
on wanting to talk and his words
seemed quite rational, at least
to my fuzzy head.
“Tell Red I couldn’t make
myself shoot at first,” he said
once. “I could see their faces.”
When I had done the little I
could do for him, I sat beside
him with my hand on his
shoulder. I could see that he
had not long to go, and even
if I had been capable of it I
could not have brought myself
to leave him for a moment.
“Gig shouldn’t have gone like
that,” he said towards the end.
“It was my fault, but I could
see their faces.”
“Gig went in his own way,”
I said.
“That made me shoot even
when I saw their faces,” he said.
“Gig and you and Red —and I
shot—and I shot till they left
and I fired the last round. I
shot two down.”
“Red said you did a good job,
Super,” I said.
“Please write home, Bert,” he
said, and passed out again.
p?OR a long time I crouched
beside him waiting for him
to rally. I could not help but
wonder how extremely young he
looked even as he lay dying,
how innocent, how pathetic,
how much as perhaps Jack Gout
might have looked in the same
pass. Then suddenly, with a
pang, I realised that he was
dead, that he had bought it,
that he had paid the full price
for it, that he owed nobody any-
thing. Whether it had been
mere desperation or sheer self-
preservation that had driven
him through his ordeal, there
was no doubt that he had
labored to the very extreme of
agony like a hero and that he
had died like a man.
The rest beside the dying boy
had remarkably revived me. It
seemed as if the life ebbing
from him had in passing revived
my beset soul, so that I was well
able to doctor myself up a bit
and crawl forward to the seat
beside Red and minister to him
as best I could.
“Super’s gone,” I said.
“Poor bastard!” said Red.
Though I still felt much
inclined to lounge back and
rest, I gathered data from Red
and elsewhere, and brought my
plot up to the stage of giving
Red an alteration of course for
home. I tried to go to sleep
then, but I could not do so for
thinking of our triumphal
return from a successful opera-
tion with two corpses to deliver
for thinking of Super not
firing because he saw the Jap’s
face too soon, wondering if any
Jap ever held his fire because he
was afraid of hitting somebody ;
but finally I must have dropped
into a heavy stupor from which,
the moment I woke, I knew Red
had had a lot of trouble waking
me.
“They must have the red
carpet out for us,” said Red.
“Look, you can see the fireworks
from here; and, boy, what a
show! ”
He must have been watching
it for some time, for now it was
a great smoke pall ahead, as if
a volcano had erupted just
where our home-base had been.
The station had been preparing
for a raid even at dawn when
we had left and, apparently, the
Jap, far from disappointing it,
had put on a good one.
As we approached there was
no sign of activity in the air or
on the sea, no indication of firing
on land, only the smoke rising
from a reddish-black mass that
for months we had called home.
“It’s all over for now,” said
Red, “and no sign of invasion.”
His voice over the intercom,
sounded as if it did not belong
to him, so that I actually looked
aft for someone at the turret or
the radio ; but it was Red speak-
ing. all right in that strained,
forced voice or it was my
singing ears playing tricks.
A LONE fighter careered
menacingly out of the
smoke at us, made an identify-
ing-pass and then stayed to
escort us in.
“Could be the last of his
tribe,” said Red.
The place had been hit hard.
Ships in the harbor were still
alight, and the water seemed to
be burning, too; and as we
came in close to our station it
could be seen that much of our
construction had been blown to
nothing and that our kites
seemed in one way or another
to have gone with the wind, all
except one which stood forlornly
at the end of a runway as if
after its landing-run it had
parked just where it had stopped
rolling. Base, when it did
finally come up to us on R/T
to instruct us to divert to the
emergency strip inland, was
weak and wheezy as if it was
operated from an improvised
and faulty aircraft-set.
“Well, they certainly tickled
it up a bit,” said Red. “I reckon
poor Super might have bought
it just about in time. I don’t
think he would have fancied
coming back to this —he was
always tidy never liked a
mess. But Gig would have
loved it.”
Our escort gallantly saluted
as he left us right over our own
tower, and then Red swung
deftly on to his downwind leg,
swept round cross wind and
presently banked round into his
approach dead in line as usual.
We were well in, nosing-down,
before I realised that after all
he was only human, that from
loss of blood and one thing and
another he was at the end of his
resources. I had sat with him
for a long time; I had detected
the unusual tone of his voice;
I had noticed the awkward way
in which he had gone for his
undercart, his flaps, his
throttles; yet never for a
moment had I suspected that he
was fast packing up. Now, as
for the first time in a long while
I looked hard at him, I was
stunned by his very appearance.
He looked perhaps worse than
Super or Gig back near the
turret, and they were dead.
The smears and patches of
purplish-black blood all over
him did not help to improve his
appearance.
Just as he checked I had a
feeling that he would not last
long enough to make it and I
put my arm on his shoulder in
case he fell forward; but he
landed all right, putting the
tired old crate down to a perfect
landing. Hp pulled her up short,
then turned, taxiing towards
where some of our other kites
had found refuge from the
storm.
“Give it away now,” I said.
“Let someone else take it from
here.”
I don’t think he even heard
me. He swung into our bay,
lined the aircraft up and stopped
the motors ; then he let every-
thing go—took his hands and
feet off and slumped back with
his head lolling.
“Home is the sailor, home
from the sea,” he said. “And
now it’s up to some of these
lazy drongos to come and carry
us all out.”
A fitter approached with a
big white enamel pannikin in
his hand. I realised that,
though by our absence since
dawn we had missed a lot of
interesting home-life, we had at
least arrived home just in time
for morning-tea.
Godfrey, a police-court solicitor,
and he summoned Larmour on
behalf of his Excellency, Prince
Dam Poohr Singha.
When the case came on for
hearing at the Water Police
Court, all the boys were there.
Godfrey put the Prince in the
box and asked him what were
the terms of his contract with
Larmour.
Straightway the illustrious one
started singing “Oh, What a
Night!” He was still carolling
when stout policemen hurled
him into the great outdoors.
During the visit of what was
known as the Second Gaiety
Company, Bull fell in love with
charming Madge Rossel. He
married her afterwards and
deserved that reward.
One night Madge was away
at a supper-party with the rest
of the company, given by old
Pa Pilcher, Theo Marks and
others at the Grosvenor Hotel.
George was not invited.
As the evening wore on the
unhappy swain’s misery
increased. Suddenly he was
smitten with a glorious idea.
Several of the company were
stopping at the Arcadia. That
was to be the scene for George’s
brainwave. He collected all the
paper he could lay hands on,
piled it in an upstairs passage,
and set it afire.
Dense smoke, alarums, and
employees rushing hither and
yon. George rushed also —to
send an urgent message to the
Grosvenor that the Arcadia was
on fire.
The Grosvenor party arrived
about the same time as the fire-
brigade.
“I’ve saved your stuff,
Madge,” yelled George, and the
relieved lady fell into the hero’s
arms.
The mystery of the fire was
never solved, and George
evolved elaborate theories
regarding its origin.
I know that only just before
his death Pa Pilcher, whose
entertainment had been so
rudely broken up, declared that
he’d give a hundred pounds any
time to know who really carried
out the spoof.
PENGUIN AND SMALL GIRL ON THE BEACH
Splayed form . . . life, where is it?
But she does not ask.
He is merely a splayed form she dare not touch:
In her is a portion of that dark.
Something, it seems, has been satisfied;
No violence a slow death, perhaps.
It is difficult to understand the stillness.
She does not fear this as she fears thunderclaps.
A breeze disturbs its breast of feathers,
And, for an instant, death is again improbable,
But the white stillness quickly returns,
As if to emphasise what is indestructible.
No rites for him ... no tragic procession
Down a corridor of solemn people;
He will, remain here, but she wishes,
She wishes he could have such a funeral.
VICTORIA.
R. A. SIMPSON.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Divorce Notices
In the sUPkeme court op
QUEENSLAND, TOWNSVILLE.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice T. 0. O’Hagan.
No. 224 of 1954.
BETWEEN FLORENCE MAUD WHITE
Plaintiff and GEOFFREY COLIN
WHITE Defendant.
TO GEOFFREY COLIN WHITE of
some place unknown in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that the
above FLORENCE MAUD WHITE of 220
Grafton Street Cairns in the State of
Queensland has commenced an action
against you in this Court for a dissolution
of her marriage with you on the grounds
of desertion without cause for three years
and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that
if you wish to defend the action you
must enter an appearance in the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Queensland at
Townsville within Forty days from the
date of the publication of this Notice and
you must file in the said Registry your
Defence within Twenty-one days after the
time hereby limited for your appearance.
A copy of the Writ of Summons and the
Petition filed herein may be obtained by
you without charge from H. ERIC DANN,
Esq., Solicitor, Cairns. Dated the First
day of June One thousand nine hundred
and fifty-five.—H. ERIC DANN, Solicitor
for the Plaintiff, Cairns.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO NORMAN JAMES PURCELL late of
The Entrance New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that BARBARA DENISE PUR-
CELL has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3555 of 1954 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 22nd August 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from F. C. SINCLAIR, Solicitor,
of 2b Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DONALD ARCHIBALD CAMERON
late of Ballandean Stanthorpe Queens-
land.—TAKE NOTICE that MARJORIE
ENID CAMERON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 460 of 1954 on the ground
of Desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Register Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Twenty-third
August 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JOHN
BOLSTER, Solicitor, of Wharf Street,
Tweed Heads, or F. C. BRYANT & CO.,
Solicitors, Wingello House, Angel Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
*f
ES
DOB
a
#>
'4
4
T
■+
Cm
0)
DID
Us
d&E
?lfi
3U!
g K a /N Q i q J a
txy
a a
* a
5
LKk
\j
AVIATION
SERVICE
HIM miirnpH
a
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
8/55
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Kyneton (Vic.) reader wants to
exchange, for apples, oranges or
poultry, collection of hard-covered
Rider Haggard and Conan Doyle
novels. —6091.
To buy copy of “The Listener,”
February 10, 1955; also “Geographi-
cal Magazine,” March, 1948. —6092.
To buy copy of The Australian
Encyclopaedia, published by Angus
and Robertson, Sydney (1925). —6090.
To buy copy of Handy Hints for
the Farm (second edition, 1946), pub-
lished by The Bulletin. —6089.
To buy copy of Quiet Moments,
by “Southern Cross.” —6087.
Words of an Australian poem pub-
lished about 20 years ago dealing
with a fellow who had ridden in
cattle-trucks, owned a hotel in Fiji,
and who walked out with girls in the
moonlight.—6oBB.
Information Sought
(i) Why were the Australian Test-
cricketers able to score heavily in the
West Indies when they failed against
the English team last season 7 (2)
Was Australia’s low scoring here
because the English bowled to a
restrictive leg-theory ?
(1) There seem to be several
reasons for the Australian batsmen’s
seeming reversal-of-form. West
Indies’ wickets are easier-paced and
truer than those prepared for the
Tests in Australia last season, which
were, on the whole, very fast. Then,
again, the Australians did not have to
face in the West Indies any bowlers
of the speed and quality of Tyson
and Statham, undoubtedly a great
fast - bowling combination. (The
English team, of course, made no very
huge totals in Tests either.) (2) Not
a main reason. Hutton did not
greatly use short-of-a-length bowling
to a packed leg-field, of which
Bailey is a main exponent, in Austra-
lia last season. (This restrictive leg-
theory is not, of course, bodyline.)
Such bowling slows the scoring-rate,
but does not necessarily reduce totals.
Has the report of the committee
of scientists appointed by the Royal
Geographical Society of Australasia
(S.A. branchy to inquire into the
flooding of Lake Eyre been published,
and, if so, where is it obtainable?
The society will publish next month
a report entitled “Lake Eyre: The
Great Flooding, 1949-52,” which
gives, among other particulars, the
geography, history and geology of
the Lake Eyre basin, the rainfall of
the area feeding the basin, and the
filling and the rate of evaporation.
The report will be published in a
limited edition, at £1 Is. per copy,
obtainable from A. S. Johnston,
hon.-secretary, Royal Geographical
Society of Australasia (S.A. branch),
Institute Building, North - terrace,
Adelaide.
* * * #
lam about to type a novel. Could
you give me a few hints as to (I)
best class of paper to use, (2) method
of typing, (3) numbering pages and
(4) binding ?
(1) Use white bond - paper, of
standard business-letter size by
11 in.) and of medium weight (161 b.
or 201 b.). Generally speaking, the
201 b.-paper is to be preferred. (2)
Use a black record-ribbon on your
typewriter. Use one side of paper
only. Keep your margins uniform
and fairly wide, about an inch
on top and bottom and about
l|in. on left. Double-space between
lines. Indent the first line of each
paragraph about five spaces. Write
the same number of lines on each
page (after page one). Keep a
carbon-copy. (3) Number each page
in the upper right-hand corner. Do
not start numbering over again at the
beginning of a new chapter, but carry
numbers consecutively throughout the
entire manuscript. (4) It is generally
best to leave the pages loose, though
MSS. which are fastened in chapters
with a slide-on clip are easy to
handle. Place the whole in an ordin-
ary springback letter-file or box-file
with simple spring-clip inside. Files
in which sharp screws and spikes 'and
bulky clips are used are apt to prove
a nuisance. Any form of fastening
which makes it difficult to read the
first few words on the left-hand side
should not be used. In all cases the
MS. should be easy to get at and
take apart if desired. Let common-
sense be your guide.
Aboriginal word for “tribal
gathering,” “camp by the sea” or
anything suitable for a house on the
sea-front ?
Elanora, camp by the sea; Iluka,
near the sea; Nirripa, Warringa,
Yerlunga, sea; Yallanyi, sea-beach;
Nambucca, entrance to the sea;
Munda, sand; Etera, shore; Imara,
Kulanda, Mattala, Wyarrie, salt-
water; Moonarie, cliff; Allawah, to
camp here; Karoonda, winter camp;
Kanyanya, Milpera, gathering of
people; Gumbooya, meeting-place;
Kooroora, native camp; Langi,
Morona, Piltaka, hut or camp;
Dulili, together; Garalima, expect
someone; Why alia, place of water;
Binnowee, green place; Kanandah,
land where the sun sets; Illalangi,
camp on a hill; Wolgarra, shark.
* * * *
How to make a lily-pond ?
Excavate soil to design (rectangu-
lar, square, oval, round, etc.) and
pack in 3in. of concrete. Cover this
with a mixture of two-parts sand
and one-part cement, working it
thoroughly into the base. A final
coating of thin cement will make it
fairly leak-proof. Where land is of
a clayey nature add wire-netting for
reinforcement with the first mixture.
The pool will need several washings
to get the lime out of the structure.
Then place soil in the pool to a
depth of 2ft., set the plants and,
finally, slowly fill with water so that
the soil will not bp disturbed.
Bright-flowering annuals set around
the pool will brighten the surround-
ings, especially when the water-
plants are not in bloom.
Brief Answers
R.M.: The quotation is the opening
stanza of Will Ogilvie’s “How the
Fire Queen Crossed the Swamp.” It
will be found in Ogilvie’s Fair Girls
and Gray Horses... .V. H.L.: George
11, not George 111, began the
custom of standing for the
“Hallelujah Chorus” .... J.F.D.:
Included in Australian Radio Plays,
edited by Leslie Rees, were
“The Remittance Man” by Richard
Lane, “Spoiled Darlings” by Edmund
Barclay, “Conglomerate” by
Alexander Turner, “The Path of the
Eagle” by Catherine Duncan, “Great
Inheritance” by Gwen Meredith,
“The Watch on the Headland” by
M. Barnard Eldershaw, “Portrait of
a Gentleman” by George Farwell, and
“Santa Claus of Christmas Creek”
by Ernestine Hill G.D.: Savo is
a small island of the Solomon group
rising abruptly from the waters of
D’Entrecasteaux Strait. It is volcanic,
and in places smoke, steam and hot
water issue from crevices in the
ground. The waters round its
shores, which are “steep to,” are
infested with sharks. It affords little
shelter for vessels and supports few
native inhabitants A.R.: The
Lake School of Poets were a group
of poets of whom Wordsworth was
the acknowledged head and founder,
and so called because his home was
in the neighborhood of the English
lakes. Southey, Samuel Taylor
Coleridge and De Quincey were the
chief of the group, and Shelley,
Scott, Carlyle, Mrs. Hemans,
Matthew Arnold, Edward Fitzgerald,
Tennyson, Gray and Charles Lamb,
although not directly associated with
the school, were connected with the
district H.F.: Emily Matilda
Heron was the second daughter of
Sir W. M. Manning and was born
in N.S.W. in 1845. At an early age
she began to Write pleasant but not
particularly distinctive verse. She
also contributed miscellaneous articles
to Australian newspapers under the
pen-name “Australie.” In 1873 she
married Henry Heron, a solicitor,
and in 1877 published in London her
one volume of verse, The Balance of
Pain. She died at Sydney on August
25, 1890 A.A.: (1) The mastoid is
part of the temporal-bone of the
cranium. At birth the lower or true
mastoid-process is undeveloped, but
towards maturity it forms a solid mass
of bone distinct from other portions
of the skull. This process is import-
ant for the reason that the basal-
antrum and cells within it are readily
infected by diseases of the middle
ear after measles, septic-throat, and
the like. (2) It is generally accepted
that virus pneumonia is contagious.
Virus therapy still has much ground
to cover, especially with regard to
disease and its response to treatment
with the new antibiotic drugs. There
is a specialised blood-test for
diagnosis of virus pneumonia.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
S.L.F.: Why should the aboriginal
stockman talk like a 19th-century
negro minstrel? H.T.: No use
for the adventures of Madge, Marie
and Joan R.H.: Don’t think
much of your “shrewd reporter
whose eyes and mind never ceased
to probe and search” R.C.: “A
beautiful, accomplished, charming
and intelligent woman tied to a
spineless, drink-sodden wastrel.” Try
it on the Divorce Court 8.J.J.:
Stamps will always ensure the return
of rejected manuscripts. But if you
want criticism you’ll have to look
for it in this column. In your case it’s
simply below standard... ,K.W.:
“The Old Black Crow” flew off at
the first glimpse of the office muzzle-
loader J.8.L.: Sentimental dog-
yarns are sixpence a dozen A.C.:
You didn’t send the finish of that
yarn; but it could make no difference
—it’s too sugary E.P.F.S.: Never
heard of a prospector finding ample
compensation in the beauties of
Nature for his inability to strike gold.
P.H.L.: That married couple are
as full of life as a pair of tombstones.
F.W.F.: Cat-woman has been
met before, but only after a heavy
attack of beer-and-lobster NjC.:
Vague speculations as to mysterious
deaths don’t make satisfactory stories.
H.R.S.: No space for “The
Unknown Poet” who wrote master-
piece after masterpiece “while oft
for food his shrunken vitals cried.”
E.M.A.: Pity you didn’t study
The Bulletin before sending them
in R.M.D.: One verse from your
poem about the two drovers who
fought to the death for the love of a
barmaid appeals to us:
“Oh! Larry, you have killed poor Harry,”
Was all the barmaid said.
“Yep,” said Larry, “let us two marry,
Now that the dirty dingo’s dead.”
AJ.K.: The type of melodrama
which made great-grandfather wipe
away a furtive tear is unsaleable
nowadays R.McP.: “Susan’s lips
were raised in a pout, but Trevor,
blushing furiously, just pecked at
her cheek.” Now, none of these
wild goings-on! T.M.F.: That
radio being left on is an old dodge.
H.F.: As a rhyme it is on the
disorderly side N.M.G.: Even
your offer to part with them at cut-
rates failed to tempt us W.S.T.:
Gives the impression of the rhymes
making you say things to suit them.
S.R.B.: Old woman’s drunken
tantrums failed to interest R.A.A.:
We offer you our sympathy:
I saw in this morning’s “Herald”
That a cobber of mine was dead.
We carried our swags did Gerald
And 1 in the years that have sped.
. ...K.8.: That whirl of words left
us wondering what had struck us.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOX."
SUBSOILING AND SOIL-FERTILITY
F. G. Dillon (B. 27/4/’55)
emphasised some important fac-
tors in pasture-improvement and
-management and their depend-
ence on soil-fertility. Towards
the end of his article he made
an interesting suggestion con-
cerning the “dormant primitive
nutrient” beneath the “compac-
tion-pan” or “plough-sole.” This
subject is receiving a lot of atten-
tion here and overseas, so some
notes on local and American
experience may be of interest.
My own work has caused me
to make a study of this problem,
as it affects Victoria and Tas-
mania, in order to enable my
firm, which handles a range of
deep-tillage implements, to make
recommendations on their use.
Experience confirms that this
type of pan does exist in our cul-
tivated areas. In the Richmond-
Campania Valley of Tasmania
a hard pan of 3in. to 4in. thick-
ness at a depth of 3in. to 4in.
sets so hard in the summer
months that in places a power
posthole-digger cannot penetrate
it. Conventional scarifiers and
the newer “chisel-ploughs” also
fail to break into it. Penetration
by roots is so restricted and
surface-drying so rapid that pea-
crops no longer thrive. In winter,
on the other hand, rain cannot
percolate and the land becomes
waterlogged.
With the co-operation of the
Tasmanian Department of Agri-
culture, whose officers have
shown by analysis that the hard-
pan condition is due only to
structural breakdown of the soil
by bad cultivation practices, one
landowner appears to have
solved the problem by employ-
ing a crawler-tractor with heavy-
tool bar-mounted rippers. These
are used to break through the
pan prior to a short fallow and
a crop of oats. It is hoped that
improved root-penetration will
enable future crop- and pasture-
plants to feed in the soil horizons
below the pan-level, while rain-
water will penetrate these levels
and be stored there rather than
be lost by runoff and evapora-
tion from the surface.
Many other examples of this
type of pan can be found. To
mention only one, the writer
has before him a photograph of
a fallow paddock taken at
Dookie (Vic.) in 1939 after
heavy rain. Runoff water has
stripped the soil of the cultivated
zone over large areas, and the
hard layer of the plough-sole is
clearly seen, criss-crossed by
the scratch marks of plough-
shares.
Subsoiling is also known to be
of value in some soils where a
natural ironstone or organic
hard-pan occurs, or where tight
clay impedes internal drainage.
Of course, we cannot assume
that the problem is general or
the solution simple. We do not
have in deep-tillage or sub-
soiling a panacea for all ills of
the soil, any more than we do in
superphosphate, or organic-
farming, or any other single
factor or process. However,
results of private investigations
at present being made might
provide part of the answer to a
problem which no doubt exists,
in spite of strong opinions to the
contrary of some of our con-
servative departmental scientists.
The significance of the hard-
pan problem has long been
apparent to conservationists and
agriculturalists in the United
States. In a recent A.B.C.
broadcast-talk, Professor L. J. H.
Teakle, of Queensland Uni-
versity, referred to examples he
had seen in Texas (U.S.A.). “On
heavily cultivated soils the struc-
ture has deteriorated, and in
many places a compaction-pan
has developed just below the
depth of cultivation. This physi-
cal deterioration, which interferes
with penetration of moisture and
germination of crops, is a more
serious problem than the supply
of plant-nutrients The rising
lands have suffered severely from
erosion.”
Subsoiling provides a means
of breaking such a pan to let
roots and water through. When
done on the contour a very
effective control of runoff and
sheet-erosion is obtained.
A fair amount of research into
subsoiling has been done in the
U.S., and more is in progress.
Purdue University Agricul-
tural Engineering Department,
Indiana (Hill and Lien: 1954),
reports that many farms now
use the subsoiler to advantage.
“The question of whether or
not its operating cost can be
justified depends on many fac-
tors which must be taken into
consideration by the farm-
operator. The greatest benefits
of the practice of subsoiling are
in utilisation and control of
water.”
A paper published by the Wis-
consin University Ashland Ex-
periment Station (Wojta, Ten-
pas, and Schmidt: 1954), com-
pared three types of autumn-
tillage treatments and their effect
on surface-drainage. It reports
that: “Smoothed (ploughed
disked and levelled) and sub-
soiled land-surfaces are more
desirable surface-drainage treat-
ments than ploughed land-sur-
faces, as these treatments ‘case-
harden’ the soil-surface. The
surface-layer, 0-2 in. in depth,
rapidly develops strength, upon
drying, and thereby provides
more opportunities to ‘work’ the
field, even though the moisture-
content of the 2-6 in. soil-layer is
higher than the ploughed area.
The infiltration and drying
rates of the smoothed and sub-
soiled surfaces are greater than
the ploughed surfaces. For these
reasons, both smoothing and
subsoiling practices are desirable
during either periods of
excessive or deficient rainfall.”
Although the results of these
experiments cannot be con-
sidered to be conclusive, the
differences are significant. Ex-
perience in Victoria bears out
the fact that subsoiled land can
be worked later and longer into
the winter and sooner after rain
than land which has not been
subsoiled.
“Mid-West” (B. 16/2/’55)
referred to another interesting
point which was dealt with
recently by Dr. W- A. Albrecht,
University of Missouri (U.S.A.)
—the need for getting fertility
deeper into the soil.
Subsoil-fertilisation is a logical
step to follow or accompany
subsoiling and is receiving
attention in the U.S. A paper
from Purdue University Agri-
cultural Extension Service
(Kohnke and Bertrand:
October, 1953) summarised in-
formation available at that date:
“Experiments have shown that
in many cases opening-up the
subsoil with a chisel or subsoiler
is advantageous But only
where subsoils are naturally rich
have real advantages been
noticed by subsoiling without
fertilising the subsoil. Recent
experiments at Purdue Univer-
sity have shown that if ample
amounts of the major elements
are put down into the ground
the root-systems of corn and
alfalfa increase a great deal and
penetrate much deeper than
without this treatment
“The main benefit from sub-
soil fertilisation is increase in
crop-yields. The greater root-
system and the added fertiliser
help to get bigger and higher-
yielding plants. Increase in yield
results also from preventing low
spots in the field from drowning-
out because subsoiling tends to
keep the water where it falls,
instead of allowing it to run off.
In this way, soil-moisture is
supplied more uniformly over the
whole field and soil-erosion is
reduced.
“Yield-increases from subsoil-
fertilisation can only be ex-
pected on soils with dense sub-
* soils that are deficient in
nutrients. Experiments on such
soils on the Purdue Agronomy
Farm have resulted in 29 per
cent, increases for corn (from
75 bushels per acre to 97
bushels per acre) and 9 per cent,
increases for soybeans (from 33
bushels per acre to 36 bushels
per acre).
“In the case of meadow the
outstanding 'result was that the
hay contained a much greater
proportion of alfalfa on the
subsoil-fertilised plots, and a
greater proportion of clover and
grass on the untreated plots.
The subsoil-fertilised meadow
yielded 97001 b. of hay per acre
compared to 91001 b. on the
untreated plots, an increase of
7 per cent.
“So far wheat has not shown
any benefits from subsoil-ferti-
lisation.” (Note: This agrees
with Victorian experience that
From left to right: James Litchfield , of Hazeldean, Cooma (N.S.W.); Basil Clapham,
general-manager, F. S. Falkiner and Son; Anthony Hordern (Mungadal, Hay), president
of the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders' Association; and Bruce Merriman (son of Sir Walter),
ram-sales manager of Merryville (Yass, N.S.W.); as viewed by Prior at the
Sydney Ram Sales.
deep tillage does not generally
directly benefit a following
cereal crop.) The report adds:
“On adapted soils considerable
advantage should be derived
. ? ~ f .•I- ,'
from subsoil-fertilisation as the
subsoil will become °f be er
structure and will b me
aerated as it receives more
more organic mat m e
decomposition of roots t a
penetrated deeply as a result of
subsoil-fertihsatioh. ft is n t
lcnimc? -iU 1-
legumes will oe as eirecuve in
accomplishing the desired results
so n il fe^Ld aVe because R to
would not penetrate tight, acid
and infertile layers.”
Much has yet to be discovered
about these operations At ore-
about tnese operations. ai pre
sent my own organisation, in
attempts to gain further infer-
rnation
soiling, can only continue with
the test-plot method, tabulating
as much corollary data as pos-
sible, since a why may not be
found in any predictable period
of time.
A final word can be quoted
from a presentation by Dr.
M. B. Russell, head of the
Department of Agronomy, Uni-
versity of Illinois (16/ 3 / ’55):
“We are in our infancy [gesta-
tion suggested as a more appro-
priate word] in obtaining enough
facts to understand physical con-
ditions of soils as factors in
tillage, drainage, irrigation, infil-
tration, compaction, conserva-
tion.
“For example, tillage is an
operation aimed at creating the
optimum environment for crop-
roots. This environment involves
the factors of moisture, aera-
tion, temperature and mechani-
cal resistance of soil to
penetration by roots. We know
the factors involved, but their
limitations in relation to tillage
have never been defined. We
need to learn more of response
of crop-roots to physical con-
ditions to provide a basic yard-
stick for defining favorable
environment for root-develop-
ment.
“Perhaps the merit of one
method of seedbed-preparation
over another should be judged
on root-development rather than
crop-yield.”
Dr. Russell, asked what he
would tell a farmer who wanted
to know whether he should sub-
soil or not, said: “I would tell
him he would just have to try it
and see. We do not have
sufficient facts to justify a
general statement, and cannot
describe the conditions under
which he might consistently
expect success or failure.”
It is evident, then, that
interesting results are coming
from American work, while
much more is needed. It is
equally evident that much needs
to be done here in Australia to
find out the application of sub-
soiling and subsoil-fertilisation
to our conditions. One experi-
ment is in progress at Rutherglen
Research Station in Victoria,
but thls will provide an answer
for only one set of conditions.
The y interest of research-
scientists in the field throughout
the country will nee d to be
aroused before the answers to
t hi s and other problems of
tillage and soil-fertility can be
J. E. SLEE.
_ ,
“Burr Imul”: Mention of
artificial insemination in sheep-
breeding (B. 1/6/’55) brings to
mind its immense value to the
... cattle . industrv A new
Bfitisn cattie-inoustry. a new
aS a en us a se P
The ' cattle-breeder can now
fertilised ovum from a
od ‘ h cow and incubate it in
anot b er cow, called the “nurse”
cow In this way the cattleman
can breed a dozen calves a year
from the one dam, the progeny
inheriting all the qualities of the
s i re and dam, obtaining only
sustenance from the “nurse.”
Adapted to the wool-industry
the new technique would enable
a soldier-settler to start with a
good ram and a stud ewe, and
with a hundred nondescript old
ewes produce a flock of first-
class jumbucks in a couple of
years.
Farm Safety
“Kiwi”: Check
1. Heating- and electrical-
systems in your vehicles. Don’t
give fire a chance to start.
2. Petrol-storages. Vapors and
fumes are dangerous.
3. Farm-machinery and -shop.
Rack-up dangerous tools and
store them well out of the way.
4. Head-lights, tail-lights and
stop-lights. Make sure they are
working well.
5. Gates and fences. Stray
stock often cause serious
accidents.
Chemicals for Onion-
storage
“Big Billy”: One of the most
spectacular developments in
agricultural-chemistry in recent
years has come from the use of
growth-regulating chemicals to
retard or modify various forms
of plant-growth.
In particular, the research has
opened-up new possibilities in
connection with the chemical
control of onions in storage.
Maleic-hydrazide (MH) has a
characteristic that can be utilised
to prevent or delay the sprouting
of onions while in store by
means of a pre-harvest spray
applied to the leaves of the
maturing plant.
A number of tests and experi-
mental trials at Michigan State
College (U.S.) have shown that
such a foliage-spray, appliea
after the bulbs are mature and
the tops begin to fall over, will
eliminate sprout- or root-forma-
tion up to eight months.
Success or otherwise of the
operation depends on absorption
0 f the chemicals by the bulbs,
This is best accomplished by
applying 51b. of MH4O per acre
in 100-150gais. of water MH4O
i s a water-soluble powder-
formulation of the sodium-salt
maleic-hydrazide, containing
4 q ~ r ce nt of the active chemi-
cal P ingredie nt : and is obtainable
‘"Australia in 3b. “
501 lb. drums. A p -
f ]yuj4o to ensure
formulation of MH4U
proper coverage of the foliage,
* 5 need be added,
Application is advised after
the bulbs have reached their Ml
slze > but before the tops are dry.
Tim is usually a week or two
before harvest, when the tops
are beginning to fall over but
are s bb green,
It is important that the appli-
cation be carefully timed to pro-
duce the maximum results. If
applied too early development
°f *be centre-scales will be
stopped and the bulbs will be
soft and spongy, reducing value
and keeping-qualities. If the
application is made too late,
sprouting will not be retarded,
As with most spray-operations
it’s better if rain doesn’t fall for


Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
08
CM.
jrtRIUSW
fV.OO*
BO»*
HP
IH*
bS%
2
‘DM-MGs.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Writ* to DAVIS GELATINS; G.PO to* ISJI.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. 80. 4058. MELBOURNE • GAO.
80. 712 F. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Boa 75SK. BRISBANE
• G.P.O 80. SBB. PERTH.
FROM "LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOBS A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
The attachment Ulus-
tivators, Sprays, Hoes, etc.^
trated is the
“ FARMERS
BOY”
CUTTER-
BAR.
o®*
Write or telephone
your nearest State
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Urazcos Co-operative Ltd-.
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8561.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St.. Sydney.
•Phenovis'—Brand of
Phenothiazifie.
H
R
8 :■
o
tablet form
liquid,p@wder
or
m
The most effective drench
for worms in sheep/
Available NOW from Your Usual Supplier
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIIEIS
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ICI
-PHE.35X.1118-
at least 24 hours after applica-
tion.
Cost of the treatment at the
recommended rates is estimated
at £2O an acre, but will vary
with the type of equipment
used.
The optimum period of eight
months during which sprouting
is eliminated occurs with those
varieties (such as Brigham Yel-
low Globe) which naturally
store well. With the mild, soft-
fleshed varieties, such as the
high - yielding Asgrow Y4O,
which naturally sprout more
readily in storage, the incidence
has been reduced to within
reasonable limits after five
months.
MH4O is a completely safe
chemical to humans, in fact to
all warm-blooded animals, so
that crops to which it is applied
are entirely safe for human or
animal consumption. It is also
easily washed out of spray equip-
ment and does not cause any
hazard because of drift during
application.
Pruning Peach-trees
“Billjim”: Between autumn
and early spring is the best time
for the dormant pruning of
canning-peach-trees. The opera-
tion influences the consistency of
cropping, quality and size of the
fruit, and the economic manage-
ment of the trees for spraying,
thinning and harvesting.
Points to watch are: Prune
trees with strong, healthy shoot-
growth to single, good-sized
laterals, spaced about lOin.
apart along the limbs of the tree.
Prune weaker-growing trees to
second-year wood, arising from
the limbs; shorten back to two
or three yearling-shoots. Space
alternately to single laterals
along the limbs about lOin.
apart. Cut excess growths to
dormant leaf-buds.
Tip yearling laterals left on
the tree, reducing the length
according to the strength of the
lateral. Stronger laterals may
carry five to six fruit when
spaced after thinning.
Prune back to leaf-buds, leav-
ing a spur when removing excess
growth along the limbs.
Regularly prune according to
the fruiting-habfk of the tree;
in general, always leave sufficient
laterals to carry an ample fruit-
crop and maintain vigor in leaf-
and shoot-growth. Thinning in
the following November and
December is also essential for
good yields and maximum tree-
growth over the life of the tree.
Hints on Hormones
“Buck”: Hormone weedicides
which kill wild-turnip, mustard
and other weeds without injuring
a strongly growing wheat-crop
have been one of the foremost
advances of modern science on
the wheatlands. But great care is
needed when spraying a crop
which has been undersown with
trefoils or medics (such as
barrel-medic or lucerne).
Care is particularly necessary
when £lb. or more acid-
equivalent per acre of selective
weedicide is needed to control
tougher weeds such as melilotis,
saffron-thistle and skeleton-
weed. . .
Experts warn against spraying
a crop undersown with barrel-
medic or lucerne, unless weed-
growth is particularly bad. How-
ever, if it is necessary to spray
*wild-tumip or mustard in an
undersown crop, don’t use more
than 4oz. acid-equivalent per
acre of an M.C.P.A. or amine
2, 4-D weedkiller.
Even at this low rate, weedi-
cides kill a number of young
medics. Survivors are smaller
than normal and set less seed.
Moral: Sow pasture on a
clean fallow if possible. If you
must use a hormone weedicide,
don’t make it stronger than 4oz.
of acid-equivalent per acre
Radiator Water
“Henty”: Never use “hard”
water in your radiator. Hard
water causes a scale in the engine
—just like the scale you’ve seen
in kettles. This scale is a heat-
insulator which will keep your
engine from being cooled
properly.
The local “hot-spots” which
develop can burn valves as well
as warp cylinder-heads and
reduce power-output.
Crosscuts
“Secale”: Tell “Sandy”
(B. 25/5/’55) that in no other
Australian State except Victoria
(or is it only mid-Victoria?) is
the cereal, rye, distinguished
from rye-grass by calling the
former rye-corn. Other States of
Australia and many other
countries in the world which
grow both crops find it sufficient
to call one rye and the other
rye-grass.
• * •
“J.F.”: The draught-horse,
of course, is disappearing; but
not, apparently, as quickly as
one might think. In the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture’s
Annual Report it is mentioned
that in 1954, “for the first time
on record,” no privately-owned
mares were sent to the depart-
ment s Clydesdale stallions.
* ‘
“Western Stock and Station
Journal (Orange, N.S.W.),
reported an outbreak of pleuro
in a mob of cattle on the Bre-
warrina road, Godonga the
first in that district for many
years. Since then 3500 cattle have
been vaccinated at Bourke.
Pollard, M.P., recently asked
Commerce and Agriculture
Minister McEwen whether there
had been any export of Merino
semen from Australia. McEwen
said “No.” A reporter from a
Sydney daily interviewed two
South Africans at the ram-sales,
without any definite result. And,
some time back, a group of
sheepowners around Parkes
(N.S.W.) sought an opinion from
Sir Garfield Barwick on whether
the Minister had the power to
permit the export of small num-
bers of Merinos (as those to
South Africa) for experimental
purposes.
• * • •
The prohibition is a regula-
tion —therefore it can be relaxed
or enforced at the Minister’s dis-
cretion, and the regulation has
been amended to cover the
export of semen. Therefore,
it would appear, the export
of semen is as effectively
barred by regulation as the ex-
port of sheep—no more, no less.
But, in these days of refrigera-
tion and air-travel, the regula-
tions seem to be difficult to
police. Assuming anyone wished
to export semen illegally.
• * *
“A.C.T.”: International con-
ference on livestock-production
under tropical conditions, spon-
sored by F.A.0., to be held in
Brisbane from August 22 to 26.
Experts from about 16 Asiatic
countries will be offered the
choice of two post-conference
tours in south-east and south-
west Queensland and the Burnett
and Fitzroy river-basins. Com-
monwealth Government is host;
organising-secretary is W. Web-
ster, director of the division of
animal - industry, Queensland
Department of Agriculture.
About the same time (begin-
ning August 22) Sydney will
have a top-level conference on
textiles.
* * *
“Dusty”: If you see a fat
sheep in a flock of lambing
ewes —have a good look at its
lamb. Unless it is an exception-
ally good mother, its lamb will
be either undernourished or
dead. Such a ewe has no place
in your flock. Sell it while it is
fat.
Canecutting
(Transferred from the Service Dept.)
( 1 ) When is the canecutting season
in Queensland ? (2) How can one
get a job canecutting? (3) Is pre-
vious experience necessary ? (4)
What union must a canecutter join ?
(1) In North Queensland, generally
from early June until just before
Christmas. From Mackay south
cutting commences towards the latter
end of June and sometimes early
July. In some instances the cane-
cutting season extends into the new
year, but every effort is made to
avoid this. (2) Generally by writing
to the secretary of the District Cane
Growers’ Executive in the cane-areas.
A list of district executive officers has
been posted. (3) In North Queens-
land canecutting is carried out mostly
on the gang system, generally from
four to eight men. Under the Sugar
Industry Award (State) the earnings
of the gang are shared equally by all
members. Therefore, experienced
men like to take in with them men
who have had previous experience.
However, many inexperienced men,
particularly in these days of labor-
shortages, do obtain cane-cuts some-
times with the experienced gangs.
The farmer trains these men in the
first instance, and fairly quickly they
get to the stage where they can make
good money if they are hard-working.
In the Mackay and Bundaberg dis-
tricts there are a great number of
one- and two-men cuts; on the other
hand, there has not been such a great
shortage of labor in the southern
areas as has been the case in the
north. This year there has been quite
an influx of southern labor into the
north just at the time when some
800 migrants selected for canecutting
also arrived. As a result, at the
moment most farmers have had their
requirements met. However, nearly
always many of the newchum-
cutters who come up from the south
leave after a few weeks and go back
home. Work at canecutting is-more
readily obtained by employees who
go to the cane-districts and seek work
whilst there. (4) The Australian
Workers’ Union.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(12/6/’55)
The solar activity continues to increase and this may
give better rains than at present anticipated, as it is an
accepted fact that in most cases seasons are better during
maximum sunspot activity than at minimum.
Another large sunspot-group has appeared on the sun,
and this should give further rains, particularly about June
23; the effects of this should be felt mainly in the southern
States.
Good heavy rains should be recorded in the agri-
cultural areas of Western Australia during July, with
moderate follow-on rains. In South Australia rains will
probably be below average.
June should be a good month in Victoria, with
exceptions in the Maliee, Wimmera and north country.
Moderate falls on the N.S.W. coast, with light rains, below
average, in the balance of the State.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Thrift
An interesting fact which emerges
from recent financial statistics is that
South Australia has the largest savings-
bank holding per head of population in
Australia. It is more arresting since in
natural resources, quality of land, situa-
tion and rainfall, S.A. is at a disadvantage
in comparison with N. S. Wales, Victoria
and Queensland. A study of the reasons
is revealing.
As a resident of S.A. for many years
I assign the following causes: Wealth in
many cases, especially from the third-rate
land, has been hard to win; so, naturally,
it has been closely held when accumulated.
A large percentage of the population has
had, through several generations, a strong
religious background, with Spartan fore-
bears who regarded thrift and industry
as real attributes to success. This out-
look has permeated the present genera-
tion —to some extent, at least. The State
has also always enjoyed a stable, careful
Government, whether Labor or Liberal,
and (he people have emulated that
example.
A further important feature is the fact
that the Government Savings Bank of
S.A. has, over many years, conducted a
well-directed campaign among school-
children extolling the value of saving.
The work of the bank’s management and
staff has been outstanding, and has
created great confidence. S.A. citizens
are proud to maintain a balance with the
bank, which lends its money for home-
purchase, broad acres and the like.
Drinking, gambling, poker-machines,
lotteries, etc., have either been well con-
trolled or abolished in S.A.
All these things have given South Aus-
tralians pride of place in Australia as a
frugal, industrious and saving people, with
the odds against them. —O. B. M.
(N.S.W.).
Surveyors
Congratulations to “R.D.F.” (B.
25/5/’55) for a vei*y well-informed article
on surveyors. He touches with under-
standing and tact on an extremely vexed
question.
Roughly, the position regarding the
land-surveyor is that, since his rather un-
fortunate eclipse in the general scheme of
things, he has tended to mind, his own
particular business very strictly, and has
also tended to keep this business within
pretty narrow limits —the definition of
boundaries, which is, in effect, the simple
part of his work, having regard for the
“I declare—without fear of contradiction—the World is flat!”
extensive training and great range of
subjects he must master.
Incidentally, the Australian licensed-
surveyor is the most highly-qualified man
in the world at his game at the present
time. He takes about nine subjects, in-
cluding engineering-surveying, hydraulics,
town- and country-planning, forestry,
geology (these last two are mutually ex-
clusive as a rule), astronomy and geodesy,
together with a brain-twisting survey-
computations paper. And now, on top of
all that, photogrammetry.
There is no question but that these
high standards must be preserved. But,
now that licensed-surveyors are again
required to play their true and important
part in the development of the continent
—in trigonometrical- and geodetic-surveys
on a large scale —few can be found to do
it because of the narrow policy in the
past.
It would not be altogether correct to
say that they are loath to leave the com-
fortable pastures of boundary-definition
to venture forth once more into the astro-
nomical field, but the fact is that they
have the game sewn-up to such an extent
that no one else is allowed to do this
work, and there is any amount to do. It
follows that, not only is the ordinary
plane boundary-work well in arrears
everywhere but little or nothing is being
done in higher-order surveys.
Obviously, the highly-qualified licensed
man should do the work for which he is
trained, and delegate the more simple
stuff to others less qualified but trained
to a sufficient standard suitable for plane-
surveying.
At present, there is probably no closer
“shop” than the Institute of Surveyors,
and any suggestion that the barriers be
lowered brings the protest that the stand-
ard will deteriorate.
I cannot see that. After all, one does
not have to be a Fellow of the Royal
College of Physicians to whip out a set
of tonsils, nor do you have to be Sir
Thomas Beecham to play a mouth-organ.
In all professions there are grades, and
none of them should suffer from that,
provided no one is moved to a higher
glrade without due precaution and
examination.
The profession of surveying would be
enhanced by a more generous and prac-
tical attitude to present-day problems.
There would be a vigorous growth of the
institute, and great encouragement would
be given to students all over the Com-
monwealth to take up this valuable and
satisfying job. At present, the full licence
is a formidable barrier ; if I recall aright,
in one year recently not one candidate
passed in W.A. and only one in Queens-
land.
One thing is sure: in this game there
will always be room at the top. —R. H. G.
(W.A.).
Inbreeding of Horses
I have often wondered why the con-
viction of John Macarthur (and, later,
Sir William Macarthur) that close in-
breeding of sheep “fixed character in the
offspring, whichever that character may
be” (B. l/6/’55), has not been more
widely relied upon in the breeding of
thoroughbred horses in this country.
In France and America inbreeding of
blood-horses is common, while at one
period in N. S. Wales —around the 1920’5,
I think —studmasters of the calibre of
Harry Taylor, the Thompson brothers
and the Briens did experiment strictly
along those lines, thereby producing some
remarkable performers in races, particu-
arly sprinters, though such progeny have
usually displayed erratic or fractious tem-
perament and have been hard to handle.
For example, that marvellous horse
Valais (sire of Heroic, Manfred, Valicare
and of good winners in every single in-
stance) responded notably when put to
near-relatives; Manfred being a superla-
tive, if mad-headed, case in point. Pro-
bably the persistent belief that the
mating of equine brothers and sisters or
similar close alliances inevitably gets
extremes—either very good or very bad
—while often impairing constitutional
characteristics marked in the parents as
well, discourages too-adventurous dab-
bling in such breeding here. But the facts
aren’t as conclusive as all that.
Anyway, the mating of a robust, toey
horse with a classy staying mare of near
relationship, whenever that opportunity
offers, strikes me as a gamble more likely
to pay-off than the more conservative
method of mixing independent strains. —
P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Nurses
“The Dunce” (B. 11/5/’55) should
realise that there are certain aspects of
a nurse’s work which are menial enough
for anything. And how quaint to assert
"She likes me all right, but she says I'm too much the Rubirosa type."
that domestics should be paid higher
wages than trained personnel because
they are prepared to do “that kind of
work”! Should the carpenter’s-laborer
be paid more than the boss ; the nipper
more than the ganger?
Many manual and menial workers
remain just that, not because of choice
or circumstances, but solely because they
are too apathetic to better themselves
for anything else. With the big money
offering for work which most of them
can do with their eyes and minds closed,
why should they make the effort?
That’s the negative approach apparent
today, and that’s why the daily papers
advertise so often under “Hospital
Vacancies” for nurses, matrons and doc-
tors. You won’t find any vacancies for
hospital domestics —it’s too sweet a cop.
The nursing situation in our hospitals
is in.drastic need of revision. The under-
paid and overworked nurses are not look-
ing for public sympathy; all they want
is a weekly wage at least equivalent to
that of their fellow-workers in other
spheres.—Quo Vadis (Q.).
Third-party Insurance
“W.P.T.” (B. 25/5/’55) is on the right
track in suggesting a limitation of
£lO,OOO liability under third-party motor-
vehicle insurance. The present legislation
is an inducement to careless driving.
But why not reduce the liability further
—say, to £2ooo—and let motorists get
additional cover, without limit, under
their comprehensive policy?
If that were done insurance companies
could base their premium-charge for the
additional cover on individual driving-
records. In that way the persistently bad
driver would find it increasingly difficult
to get cover, and eventually he would
be off the roads for good—his own and
everybody else’s.
Incidentally, only one American State
has compulsory third-party legislation,
and it is significant that that State has
the highest insurance-premiums and the
highest accident-record in the U.S.A. The
other American States have financial-
responsibility laws roughly along the lines
advocated in the foregoing.—Under-
writer (Vic.).
One Home Less
Federal Treasurer Sir Arthur Fadden
and Opposition member L. C. Haylen
agree that hire-purchase is dangerous to
the loan-market and, possibly, to bank-
deposits and housing.
Yet the growth of hire-purchase is
directly due to the policy of the present
Federal Government in continuing Socia-
list practice and controls through the
central bank. Originally appointed by
the Socialist-Labor Government, Dr.
Coombs has gone on with all their basic
plans of Socialising banking,
Private banks, having found their
security of existence not noticeably
greater than before, have unofficially fol-
lowed the official directive. They have
cut the capital available to the ordinary
ma n down to nothing. Meanwhile life
goes on, people need homes, cars,
appliances and business-premises and
machinery.
I, as a married man with growing
children, have been quoted a rate of
repayment on the amount advanced to
build a home at almost £lO per week
for a period of 20 years or less. That
was by the largest private bank, and the
total advance was equal to only half the
total security.
Result: One less home built.
But, to make the existing overcrowded
residence more tolerable to our family,
I bought a car. I couldn’t get the money
from the bank.. Thousands in a. similar
position turn to finance-companies as the
only alternative to paying the full cash-
price.
The ordinary man who uses hire-
purchase is being forced to do so, and
petulant remarks from the Treasurer will
not achieve anything.
The present sorry state of the Labor
party is directly due to an inherent dis-
honesty of intention which resulted in the
anti- and pro-Communist situation. The
Liberals should look into their own politi-
cal souls and take heed. They themselves
are sowing the seeds of their future
destruction by compromising with the
devil of Socialism.
No ordinary man today could regard
Commonwealth loans as a serious invest-
ment. The mean interest-rate offered
does not even cover depreciation due to
inflation over the past 10 years, let alone
preserve the money invested, or show a
profit.
Most people would agree that their
money might as well be used to achieve
a little more comfort, since no official
encouragement is being given to invest in
a sensible manner. —Buster (N.S.W.).
Jobs for Justices
In the country Justices of the Peace
often have some real work to do, but ih
the cities their activities are practically
confined to the odd good-turn for the
neighbors by signing a document or two.
Although—as I was told when I was
sworn-in—Justices are “put through like
sausages,” they do have to possess some
standing and must at least have some
community-interest at heart to offer for
the duties.
There are many ways that suggest
themselves in which such a group of
men (and women) could be used to the
benefit of the community. Why not as
the first “special constables” on the
English pattern? Or as the first “traffic-
wardens” on the American pattern, to
report (but never to summons) those
included in traffic-breaches, the checking
of which by this means might save a
nasty accident at some other time.
In a local street the other day there
were two accidents at the one time, each
requiring a policeman. The ambulance
was well on the job, but still no police-
man; when he did arrive someone, of
course, would have to wait.
Why not equip Justices with sufficient
authority to be useful in such cases, if
necessary giving them a course at police-
headquarters to learn just what has to
be done?—J. P. (N.S.W.).


Simple English
The conflict between simple and
ornate language has exercised the minds
of writers for the past 2000 years.
The ancient Greeks discussed it, Cicero
and his school found it a problem, and
the question of ornament came up for
debate soon after men began to write
English as we know it, in the 14th
century.
Up to date there has been no decision.
Mandeville’s translators and Malory
favored the plain style; with his new
press, Caxton tried to swing to the
ornate. In Tudor times Ascham was all
for keeping the language pure; Lyly
sought to decorate. Then came Bacon
with his deceptively simple prose ; he
was matched by Milton and Sir Thomas
Browne with sentences that flow on for a
page.
Under Dryden’s pen simple English
was supreme, but Addison and Steele
tried to give it dignity until, with John-
son, the tide of Latin-English set in once
more. The Romantics used the plain
language of speech, but later, in the last
century, Pater, Meredith and Stevenson
began again to elaborate.
Today we favor the plain style. Eng-
lish, we are told, should be written as it is
spoken, or—-even more simply—as it is
thought. But in some places there begins
to be a hankering after a touch of gilding.
After all, plain English does tend to be
bare and inexpressive.
Somerset Maugham has recorded: “I
have long resigned myself to writing as
plainly as I can.” Note the use of the
word “resigned.” From the pen of a
precisian like Maugham it is no accident,
for in another place he writes: “The style
of a novel is best, when, like the clothes
of a well-dressed man, it is unnoticed.
But if you like language for its own sake ,
if it amuses you to string words together
in the order that most pleases you so as
to produce an effect of beauty, the essay
or the book of travel gives you an
opportunity.”
There you have a hint of that nostalgia
for more beautiful modes of expression
which others than Somerset Maugham
have shown. Sooner or later the pendu-
lum must swing again towards a prose
of greater complexity. It is impossible to
predict, but when the change does come
it will be welcome, for we have endured
intolerably long the present fashion Tor
words of one syllable and for sentences
with all the balance and rhythm of bursts
from a Bren-gun.—L. R. M. (W.A.).
Sydney’s Ammunition Factory
Whatever the merits or futilities of civil
defence in this age of blot-out bombs
delivered per stratosphere, the proposal
to build a complete ammunition-factory
on Sydney’s perimeter would seem to
run counter to most ideas of industrial
strategy.
In their preparations for World War II
•the Germans, who are no fools at this
sort of thing, built their munition-plants
in a kind of chequerboard echelon
which covered the Reich from the Baltic
to the Rhine. This caused considerable
trouble to Allied bomber-staffs, because
the elimination of one or two of these
factories had little effect on overall pro-
duction. Assembly-plants were located
more to assist concealment than to facili-
tate delivery or receipt of partly-finished
or finished materials of war.
In England, too, this plan was adopted
with considerable success, despite the
geographical limitations.
Should total war come again, it would
be of a kind that would startle the ghost
of Clausewitz himself, so Sydneysiders,
in particular, and a good many others be-
sides, have some excuse for feeling a bit
uneasy at the Federal Government’s
acceptance of a planned basket with all
the eggs so neatly arranged.-—F. A.
(N.S.W.).
Turgid Prose
On civil-service language (B. l/6/’55),
how’s this for an example of the turgid
prose so rightly criticised by Sir Arthur
Quiller-Couch? The Institute of Trans-
port, which held a convention in Victoria
recently, stated that subsidies do not
impose an unreasonably large burden on
the taxpayer, and continued:
Nevertheless, the matter should be kept
under close review by some suitable national
research-organisation so that future trends
will be appreciated and evaluated to
evolve an orderly and integrated system of
transportation, utilising all the instru-
mentalities in their respective spheres of
greatest economy and usefulness, which
will reduce use and community costs.
Apparently the institute felt that a
close watch should be kept on transport
“I 'm growing my own busby!”
development and costs. Why couldn’t
it say so? — Wusslean (Vic.).
“DJ.K.” wants us to use “simple
English, but never at the cost of denying
the versatility of the English language.”
Quite so: but how are we to get it?
Through education?
Sean O’Casey never went to school,
and didn’t learn to read until he was 12.
He was newspaper-boy, laborer, hod-
carrier, stone-breaker and railway-
worker. Yet he wrote expressive English.
Now take a highly educated gentleman
I could name. He went to high school,
grammar school and university and
emerged with the best record of his day
for passing examinations. I was running
my eye down one of his art-criticisms the
other day when I read: “This artist pro-
vides us with an amorphous expression
of semi-complete introspection into a
disintegrated personality.”
Poes anybody know what that means?
—F.S. (Vic.).
Juvenile Delinquency
I’d like to see that Uncabled Additions
article on juvenile delinquency (B.
l/6/’55) printed in pamphlet-form and
distributed to every member of the Aus-
tralian legislatures, judiciaries and educa-
tion departments.
After the parents—who are the prime
offenders for neglecting to discipline their
children and objecting to anybody else
doing it—the law is blameworthy for its
leniency in dealing with young offenders.
The law is also to blame for its ridiculous
classification of youth, which puts a
grown man of under 18 —often married
and with a family—into the same class
as a juvenile of 10.
If children are not subjected to some
discipline in their early years, it will be
too late afterwards. The neglect of their
children by young war-time parents, a
younger generation of schoolmasters
who think discipline is unnecessai y,
Socialist theories on punishment and the
rights of man —all those things have left
us with a load of trouble. The worst
aspect of it lies in the fact that the whole
rising generation of youth up to the age
of 21 has grown-up to think they can go
the limit without punishment—and they
do go to the limit in numbers too great
for the good of society.
Some parts of metropolitan Australia
are good seed-grounds for the easy
development of the young thug, and our
weekly record of criminal activity, from
murder down to graft of many kinds, tells
its own tale. It is all the greater reason
why our children should be taken in hand
much more firmly while there is still time
to keep most of them on the path of
social order, where the policeman can be
seen as a friend rather than an enemy.—
Shellback (N.S.W.).
The Country Storekeeper
As a bank-official with experience in
many parts of Queensland, I find every-
where that the country-storekeeper
.carries on his books, and tides-over in
adverse times, a large number of the dis-
trict’s farmers and graziers.
When seasons improve, the storekeeper
is usually the last one to receive his due.
The goods he sells are largely of a con-
sumable nature, and, even if he wished,
he could not repossess. He very seldom,
if ever, has any security for the debts
on his books, and has to rely solely bn
the honesty of his customers. He knows
they will pay eventually, but in the mean-
time he often has to scratch around for
sufficient to pay his wholesaler and keep
within his own bank-overdraft.
It seems the accepted thing that the
storekeeper won’t mind if he is not paid
something on account this month—he
has such a big store with so many custo-
mers that it won’t make any difference
if one account is not reduced. Multiply
that many times and it is no wonder that
the country-storekeeper ages prematurely.
I take off my hat to them. They play
an invaluable, although perhaps involun-
tary, role in our nation’s economy.—
I. O. L. (Q.).
An Industrial Myth
“Quo Vadis’s” estimates of working-
hours (B. 11/5/’55) are most inaccurate.
His estimate of 130 days-off a year
leaves a total of 235 appearance-days—
a total of 1880 hours. Smoke-ohs will
further reduce that time to 1801 hours
and 40 minutes. You can forget that 40-
hours loss for phone-calls, domestic
upsets or other emergencies—they are
already catered for in the two-days’
special leave. Also, the phone is not
usually available to the tradesman except
in emergencies.
The average tradesman might smoke
20 cigarettes a day, and, allowing 50
seconds to roll and light-up, that only
accounts for 65 hours, leaving a total of
1736 hours and 40 minutes working-
time.
The working-week should be estimated
on the 235 working-days rather than 52
weeks. The estimate of man-hours a
week then jumps to nearly 37 hours.
Long-service leave is usually a reward
for good stewardship, during which the
employee may have developed many
time- and labor-saving devices to assist
his employer.— Manning (W.A.).
Australian Flora
At least two municipal authorities are
trying to preserve Australian flora in a
sensible way (B. 1/6/’55). Oddly enough,
the majority of people backing them are
British.
One is at the Woomera township on
the fringe of the “dead heart,” where the
local citizens council, guided by British
and Australian scientists of the Long
Range Weapons Establishment, have built
a nursery, despite the low rainfall, heat
and duststorms. Here they are growing a
number of Australian trees, chiefly gums,
which seem to thrive in the area. Any
local who is interested can have plants
for the asking, with plenty of advice
from the nurseryman on how to look
after them. These trees are already-
changing Woomera from an arid desert-
township to an oasis.
The other example is at Medina, the
township of the British Petroleum Com-
pany’s Kwinana refinery in W.A. This
model township was hewn from the scrub
and, no doubt, in the rapid transforma-
tion much of the flora was lost to the
bulldozers. The local council, not unlike
that at Woomera, established its own
nursery and now can’t keep up with the
demand for trees and shrubs it is issuing
free to residents.
These two young municipalities have
set a striking example. In my own muni-
cipality, for instance, rates cost me more
than £2O a year and the only visible return
I have had in the last decade has been
my rubbish-bin cleared twice a week and
the gutter swept twice a year. It has a
nursery, but only to raise a few seedlings
for the stretch of park surrounding the
city hall. With all the money it must be
collecting there should be enough to pay
for a few free shrubs and trees for the
ratepayers.— Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 335
Across
I—State1 —State agent of an enemy infested
with stingers. (5)
4—Do not admit the medicine-man
into town in N.S.W. (9)
9—Noted boy dropped the negative.
10 —Bill rendered after dessert which
is pink? (5, 7)
13— A spot in the middle of potential
gin. (7)
14— Bomb a friend of the wrist? (6)
17 — Moustache on a dinornis-maxi-
mus of N.Z. (3)
18 — Mushroom profile imitated if
bound. (5)
21 — Racehorse famous in Australian
turf annals. (3)
22 — I complain backwardly, according
to this girl. (5)
24 — You have a night for the
American get together. (5)
25 Vowels matched this girl. (3)
26 Cafe’s broken mugs? (5)
27 — A North Dakota conjunction.
(3)
28 — Evatt’s electorate don’t admit
weight. (6)
30 —Crescent perforator with a
disease. (7)
32 —Sieves ruin it. (anagram) (12)
34—Shivoo what is at. the bottom of
the scale? (2)
36 — Striking successes? (5-4)
37 — Sat back with a relative apple.
(5)
Down
1 — Vessel which spreads marmalade
and suchlike on the trumpets,
trombones and flutes? (10)
2 Like this. (2)
3 Way up with the Notary Public
on the roof,' and incapable of
boring? (4-5)
5 Tiff line. (3)
6 Specialist fisherman. (5)
7 A ballerina, an Australian funny-
man, and I accompany an artist’s
auditor who fleeces a girl? (5, 7)
8— Portent upset nobody. (4)
11 — Wayward boy swallows a rodent.
(7)
12 — Insect and a nurse are four, but
none comes after Madagascan
capital. (12)
15— A lair in port with Edna. (4)
16 — A fellow to pull over an alterna-
tive article drug which was not
expected by lago to sootne
Othello. (10)
19 — Pet is to take supper up and
b'egone! (4-3)
20— Crooked course on one street.
(9)
23—This makes a relative knock-out
a shark. (4)
29—Former N.S.W. fast-bowler
offers two articles on Kay. (5)
31—Scrap vessel. (4)
33 —Thus you make a little money.
(3)
35 —Anglo-Saxon weight for an old
Roman like Alpha’s. (2)
Solution to Crossword No. 334


your plans for them "pipe" dreams?
%
•*>
* & s
■I"
\ v 5 i
!1
»>
B»
i M
m
mm
■M
• rn rn
i M
m
'
* «
“* » i» * * $ *
1 1
a
mmm
ri
1 1
# ft
i
1:
l
H
-
/
pj
Jv";-:
II
■
.
:
■ ~ .
"■x
■■ #
f
|gp
M
■
i.v :: .t
■
It
*»
.. . ; : :,;
;., ='«:*
CP
m
:
lift
V.. . a
s i
lII*
I*
-—you’ve seen it dozens of times . . . young Johnny
threatening to “blow” your daughter off the map . . . the wife endeavouring
to prevent the “disaster” and yet be on both sides at the one time . . . great
family, aren’t they? Yes, and don’t forget they’re your responsibility for life
and even . . . well, none of us can escape it, you know . . . Incidentally, there’s
a point—why not provide for that family of yours should things go “haywire”
sometime . . . it’s easier than you think, too. Have a chat to the M.L.C. man
—you’re under no obligation.
Even as a form of old age invest-
ment for yourself, or a means to
easier, systematic saving, you’d be
well advised by the M.L.C.
representative.
(Hope your daughter gets away
O.K. . . J
:r& y
9 -
BE WILL ADVISED
BY im M.L.C. m,AM
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS’
ML3S/F.P.
