

Ss.
>y.
95
THE HOUSE
ELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
POLICE ROUNDS —PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3913
Wednesday, February 9, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
WELLINGTON ARCH DOMINATES LONDON’S BUSIEST CORNER
THE tree-lined avenue on the north side of Buckingham Palace known as
Constitution Hill leads west to Hyde Park Corner, the busiest spot in
London, where more than 80,000 vehicles a day pass around its three islands.
There, high above the surge of traffic and surmounting the triumphal arch
which spans Constitution Hill, is the finest of the many sculpture groups in
the Metropolis. It represents the Angel of Peace, a graceful winged figure
in flowing robes, holding high a wreath and standing in her chariot drawn by
four spirited horses.
This splendid monument, or quadriga, was the work of a soldier, Captain
Adrian Jones, who spent four years on this work, which cost £17,000. The
Angel of Peace is beautifully proportioned, three times lifesize, and the restive
horses are twice lifesize. Before being set up the sculptor gave a tea party
to a few friends seated inside the horses. The Quadriga was given by Lord
Michelham in memory of King Edward VII and was placed on the arch in
1912. It replaced a statue of Wellington, described as “that hideous equestrian
monster,” which was sent in disgrace to Aldershot in 1883.
Previous to that date, the archway stood directly opposite the
main entrance to Hyde Park and was moved to its present location in 1883.
It was designed by Decimus Burton, whose other work included the nearby
triple archway to Hyde Park and which is adorned with reproductions of the
Parthenon Frieze.
The Wellington Arch, shown by the House of Seppelt in the accompanying
illustration, has living rooms inside the four pairs of columns outside. At the
sides are two sculptured panels, and the gates, which are kept closed except
on ceremonial occasions, are decorated with the Royal arms—the rose, the
shamrock and thistle. Many historic processions have passed beneath this
graceful arch and along Constitution Hill, frequently used by Queen Victoria
and in which three attempts were made on her life —in 1840, 1842 and 1849.
It is recorded that King Charles II met the Duke of York in his coach
on Constitution Hill one morning. The Duke reproved his brother for
exposing his royal person to danger by going about with so small an escort.
Charles replied “No kind of danger, James: for I am sure no man in England
would take my life to make you king.”


BOOKHUNTER will save you time. Let
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
select and buy your reading matter.
Write to BOOKHUNTER indicating your
taste in books.
The Red Page
LIFE OF WAINEWRIGHT
Exquisitely printed for Geoftrey
Cumberlege, Oxford University Press,
by Sydney’s Halstead Press, charm-
ingly written by Robert Crossland,
“Wainewright in Tasmania” is hard to
read —one is continually breaking-olt
for another glance at one or other of
the 28 plates of Wainewright portraits,
so elegant, so full of life, so firmly
characterised; done by a Tasmanian
convict who had broken stones m a
chain-gang and later been a wards-
man in Hobart’s primitive hospital,
whose wards, in Mr. Crossland s
description, were more frightful than
the latrine of a country pub.
Mr. Crossland would like to see
Wainewright’s criminality written-off
as a big mistake. He had nothing to
gain from poisoning his wife’s mother;
the jury disagreed as to whether he
poisoned his sister-in-law after heavily
insuring her life; he was tricked into
pleading guilty to a forgery by which,
in any case, he was only taking a short
cut to his own property; moreover, his
wife was “practical, unsentimental,
skilled in nfoney matters,” while
Wainewright was “weak, unpractical,
ineffectual,” and there is a suggestion
that during the forgery-investigation
Wainewright was protecting her.
“What song the Sirens sang
Still, Mr. Crossland has found out
many things that were despaired-of,
and settled some that were in dispute.
He has resolved conflicting accounts
of Wainewright’s appearance by dis-
covering, with the help of the Tas-
manian State Archivist, Mr. Sharman,
the prison-description of Wainewright,
which confirms Procters’s description:
“short [sft. s|in.] and rather fat young
man, with fidgety nervous manner and
sparkling, twinkling eyes.” And he
records with delight the confirmation
of the “speculative lodging-house
keeper” he had already introduced
into the first draft of his book, with
whom Wainewright lodged after
obtaining his ticket-of-leave: for Mr.
Sharman sent a notice discovered by
Miss Monks in the Hobart “Colonial
Times” of December 15, 1846, in which
one James McDonald, obviously
unaware that Wainewright had gone
to St. Mary’s Hospital to die, adver-
tised the sale of his books and goods
against money due for lodging.
What else Mr. Crossland can dig
up of Wainewright’s bearing in Tas-
mania seems to prove that he- was a
harmless and well-conducted person;
he goes to considerable pains to dis-
credit the harsh reminiscences of Dr.
William Crooke in Melbourne, 22 years
later; and as for the famous Waine-
wright saying (a misquotation) that he
poisoned his sister-in-law because she
“had thick ankles,” it was, says Mr.
Crossland, the obliterating reply of a
bored gentleman to a boorish ques-
tioner. This is reasonable; and in his
equation of Wainewright with Baude-
laire and the cult of the dandy, Mr.
Crossland seems to have achieved at
least the spiritual truth about his sitter.
Born well-to-do, amateur of the arts,
pupil of fashionable English painters,
dilettante journalist and essayist, friend
of a wide cycle of London wits,
Wainewright was an excellent specimen
of the superfine young gent, of his
times. Found guilty of underhand
dealings in insurance, with a back-
ground of possible murder, and then
betrayed into pleading guilty to
forgery, he was pressed as convict and
wardsman in Tasmania so low as to be
pleased to spy and inform on other
hospital workers to the doctors and
other authorities who befriended him.
His smallness, his sensitiveness and
some kind of lisp made him the butt
of the convicts he worked with.
A more virile mind might have
attacked from these depths, with the
pencil crayons and washes that were
Wainewright’s only available materials,
the crude buildings, the obscene con-
■ brutal overseers. But with
*ht art was a compensatory
t a dream of truth and not
n: in his portraits of Dr.
>ung Frederick Brodribb, Mr.
ev. William Bedford, Edward
d John Cox he sought the
i, as in his portraits of
nd young women like Frances
Jane Downing and Mrs. Cox
t “the domestic virtues of
gance and refinement”; while
portrait of Martha Butler,
amused, the essence of the
and fashionable young woman
nes, and its counterpart, the
>f Robert Nuttall, the negli-
dy, silken of whiskers and
: recaptured the society whose
e closed to him for ever,
emendous effort of a dying
lg on to his fifties, to create
;ance in such circumstances
this beautiful monograph, so
yet so carefully worked on.
ipleted with a list of the 46
in portraits, with sizes,
and present ownership, also
wright’s other Tasmanian and
sh works, a bibliography and
The Irish at Eureka
Dr. C. H. Currey’s “The Irish at
Eureka,” appropriately published by
Angus and Robertson in the year of
the centenary, is a simplification of
the complicated affair of the Stockade
to the one clear statement: —
It was, in substance, the second
example in Australia of concerted,
armed resistance to Authority by
Irishmen. The first of these two
incidents disturbed the peace of
Vinegar Hill, between Castle Hill
and Windsor, New South Wales, in
1804... .Each manifestation had
its roots in Irish hatred of Saxon
oppression.
It is a tempting theory. One could
quote in favor of it a piece of evidence
not available to Dr. Currey when he
wrote his book, a most dramatic letter
lately discovered from Father Patrick
Smythe, the young priest stationed at
Ballarat in 1854, to the Bishop’s Vicar-
General at Melbourne; which, written
on the eve of the fateful mass meeting
of the diggers at Bakery Hill, explains
why Bishop James Alipius Goolc
drove headlong to Ballarat through the
night with the experienced Father
Downing. The letter is published in
the special Eureka supplement o
“Historical Studies” published by the
University of Melbourne;-
Very Rev. Sir,
The alarming progress things are
making here induces me to write
to you in order to get your advice.
I really don’t know how to act.
A monster meeting will be held
here on Wednesday next. What
may arise from it is now impossible
to say. But considering the sullen
excitement prevalent over the
whole of these diggings, I don’t
and cannot auger a peaceful con-
clusion. In fact, my impression is
that everything tends to an insur-
rection. The whole population
here will be assembled on that
day. Three thousand are coming
in from Creswick Creek.
The first thing they intend to do
is to burn the Licences and bid
defiance to the offices of the
Crown here to enforce the licence
tax. In this alone there is the seed
of an inevitable insurrection.
What else they intend doing I
cannot say, but judging from the
I feeling of the people and the
extreme excitement to which they
may be worked by the able and
eloquent men who have the
leadership here, on the occasion,
and which may induce them to do
things which we cannot foresee
now.
On the whole I want advice.
What am Ito do? Am I to put
myself against the meeting being
held? —that is—Am I to use all
my endeavors to stay it —or if I
cannot effect this, am I to attend
it and strive to moderate the
popular feeling? From my dis-
position, I should not like to mix
in that large assembly, but if you
see it right I shall follow your
commands.
Whatever you think best I shall
strive to obtain. A middle course
should be adopted by myself, if I
thought it safe ; that is, to keep
the Catholic body from being pre-
sent. But to do this effectively 1
should have to have your letter to
show them.
Yet, after all, many of them
would be present and chiefly from
their not knowing of your disin-
clination that they should be there.
Let me say that we have come to
the crisis here. Something decisive
must be done. Of course we have
nothing to do with those who do
not belong to us, but from the
large Catholic body here and from
the prominent part some of them
play in the agitation going on
here, that any influence you can
effect on them, will effect the whole
body of the diggers....
Then there is the evidence Dr.
Currey himself submits (including, of
course, the fact of Bishop Goold’s
night-journey; of which, though
Father Smythe’s letter was not avail-
able to him, he fully appreciates the
significance).
To summarise from the book.
According to George Collins Levey, a
witness at the subsequent Gold Fields
Commission, the number of men who
took up arms was 863 —•“ ‘Quite half of
them,’ he said, ‘were Irishmen.’ ”
“The strongest division in the stock-
ade,” according to Raffaello Carboni,
“was that made up of the Irish pike-
men led by Michael Hanrahan and
Patrick Curtain.... They stood the
most true to the Southern Cross and,
consequently, suffered the greatest loss
on the morning of the massacre.”
H. R. Nicholls, in his “Reminiscences
of the Eureka Stockade,” said that on
the morning of the fight, when most
of those who had taken up arms had
prudently faded away, there were by
10 a.m. hardly more than 100 in the
Stockade, “many” of whom “were
Irish; indeed the movement at the time
seemed to have become almost an
Irish one.”
When, in ten minutes, the great
rebellion was over, of the 34 killed or
wounded in the stockade, 20, as listed
by Peter Lalor, were Irish. Of the 13
men sent for trial to Melbourne
(chained and riding on three carts), “at
least six,” says Dr. Currey, were Irish
—Timothy Hayes, John Manning,
William Molloy, John Phelan, Michael
Tuhey and Thomas Dignam.
At first glance the case does seem
to be established with overwhelming
proof. But, then, on reflection, pre-
cisely what has Dr. Currey established?
That without the Irish, if one interprets
Father Smythe correctly, the affair
might have fizzled out; but not, surely,
that there would have been no
organised protest of any kind. That
half the men who took up arms were
Irish; rather more than half of those
killed or wounded were Irish; and
about half of those sent for trial were
Irish In short, that the Eureka
stockade was half—but not more than
half —an Irish insurrection.
The police, under Hotham’s stupid
orders, were hunting the diggers down
like dingoes and chaining them to logs
when they caught them —all to find out
whether or not they had paid their
exorbitant licence-fees and this
(surely the basic factor that turned
political protest into armed rebellion)
was a kind of tyranny against which
men of any nationality would, and
did, rebel. Irish or no Irish, the Scots,
the English, the Italians, the Germans
and the Americans at Eureka, free
men oppressed by the senseless tyranny
of the State, hit both in their persons
and their pockets, would surely have
banded together in some kind of
vigorous protest.
One might, thinking of the Kellys,
put up a similar theory to Dr. Currey’s,
that the Irish were responsible for
bushranging in Australia, in another
form of revolt against the Saxon; and
then find it awkward to account for
the facts that Morgan, say. was
obviously of Welsh descent, while many
—perhaps most —of the police engaged
in suppressing the bushrangers, such
as Kennedy, Scanlon and Lonergan,
whom the Kellys murdered, were as
Irish as the outlaws .
After which, because the sound and
clear-cut theory must not be clouded
by too much niggling, and because the
facts are still the facts in spite of a
few conflicting facts, one must return
to agree with Dr. Currey that
where there was trouble the Irish
were in it, and that their ready and
lively resentment of tyranny was
undoubtedly the principal factor that
took the Eureka affair so far as armed
revolt.
Those who read “The Irish at
Eureka” —and, though a little more
sober and scholarly than the general
reader may be accustomed to, it
deserves the widest circulation —will
find it invaluably informative not only
in establishing the Irish theory so far
as it can be maintained, but also in
correcting the fallacies which have
become embedded in the story since it
became a popular (and so often a
Communist) legend.
There is, for instance, “no evidence”
that “some of the stockaders were
champions of the Marxian dialectic,” as
maintained by L. Sharkey in “Aus-
tralia Marches On”; and as for the
affray having “certainly hastened the
inauguration of responsible self-
government in Victoria” (Dr. H. V.
Evatt; introduction to Raffaello’s “The
Eureka Stockade,” Sunnybrook Press,
1942), the bill to do that had been
sent to London for approval nine
months before the rebellion broke out.
“At no point in Victoria’s campaign
for this supremely important degree of
self-government,” says Dr. Currey, “is
there the slightest evidence that the
incident on the Eureka in any way
affected the course of events.”
PORTUGUESE LAUREL,
FLOWERING
Distance. can put beauty on
apd nearness take it off:
this laurel-tree alive with light
reconciles both.
It stands a harp of loosened fire
strung to praise the world
and gathers distance in itself:
the foiled shaken cloud,
spray and foam and floating snow,
burning buds of stars,
the Milky Way and the trailing light
of long light-years.
Its nearness makes its splendor ours.
Those branches laced with light
are rooted in our tragic world:
confusion breaks through in delight.
As petals on a bough
our frail world hangs there.
Rocked in summer’s violent gale
torn and built from the air»
this lyre of lightning, stars and snow
and working petals holds
our distance and our nearness in
and celebrates both worlds.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
At the North Pole
Kaare Rodahl is a Norwegian
scientist who sat on an island of ice one
hour’s flight from the North Pole for
13 days in 1952; and he tells his story
in “North” (Heinemann).
He was one of a small team of
experts landed on the island, which is
known as T-3, by the U.S. Air Force
to prepare the way for a larger expedi-
tion which occupied the island for
some months and, for all one knows—
“provided it escapes the east Green-
land current it may form the basis for
a floating scientific laboratory through-
out the next generation”—is there to
this day.
Landing on the island is hazardous
because, moving with the winds and
the pressure of the pack-ice, it is never
in the place you last thought of; and
Dr. Rodahl spent an anxious hour or
so looking for the place, lost in mid-
air over the Arctic. There is also,
when the island is at last located, the
problem of the “white-out,” when the
sun is lost in haze and no shadows
show to indicate humps and crevasses
in the proposed landing-field. Except
to anyone born for such adventures, as
his pilot Erhart seems to have been,
life could offer few more awkward
moments than those spent in making
trial landing-runs to see whether or
not the plane would crash: —
Erhart made a new approach,
pulled back on the throttles and
let down until the rear end of the
(i Continued, on page 35)


f?
i : W
xii
mmtmMM j
pliß^Hlimi
■
'
UMli
~f.^
H
■. -.; ■■' 1 ?: ' 1 ■
mm
' % •*#>&
§i
m
: m
xgg&ss
H
wm
tm
mmm
-2%MA
mmm
i
■
IMilliill
Hii ■;':.HH! H
illiiillllli
type where and when you like with a ...
.. .TteminqtciL
the world's most advanced portable
Never before a typewriter with so smooth and fast a touch, which simply flows under your fingers . . . Never
before a portable of such sturdy, balanced construction, staying steady even at the highest speed . .' .
Never before has any portable given such clear even tone printwork, producing letters you are proud to send.
Here at last is a portable with a touch and action equal in smoothness and speed to any office typewriter.
This wonder portable features the patent simplified ribbon changer for changing in a jiffy without fuss or
muss, right and left shift lock, instant automatic ribbon reverse and many other handy time-saving attach-
ments to ensure smoother and easier typing. Priced at £49/10/-. Complete with tab, £55/10/-. These
portables are also available on the easiest terms in Sydney.
EMPIRE ARISTOCRAT, £3O.
Weighs only 8| lbs. Gives up to six clear carbon copies. It will slip
easily into average brief case. Available for only 4/10 per weekly payment.
IMPERIAL "GOOD COMPANION," £3B/10/-.
Four bank key board, with 88 characters, including useful fractions. Fitted
with colour change and stencil switch. Available for only 4/3 per week.
| TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
nthony Horderns
ANTHONY HORDERNS' BOX 2712, G.’P.O., ’PHONE: 80951


The Bulletin
Wednesday , February 9,19 SS
VoL 76—No. 3913
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;]
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
SMOKE AND "CONSPIRACIES"
IT can be said with certainty that if the “Labor”
party ever starts canonising its leaders there will
be no Saint Evatt. On present form it seems that
he will be remembered as the wrecker of the party,
whatever blame falls on others.
There was certainly dissatisfaction with the
nature and direction of his policy during the Federal
campaign, but most members were relieved that
he had not taken the Socialist line which would
have led them into a debacle. The results of the
poll, if anything, had been a pleasant surprise in
view of the failure of “Labor’s” dismal prophecies
of depression, chaos and rising prices to eventuate.
Then came the Petrov commission. Three of
Dr. Evatt’s staff were mentioned in the proceed-
ings, in two cases trivially and incidentally. Dr.
Evatt then set out, in conjunction with the counsel
representing Comrade Rupert Lockwood, to charge
Petrov and the Security Department with being
involved in a wicked, even a criminal, conspiracy
formed for political purposes to damage him
through his staff. He made clear his intention to
wreck and discredit the commission and to make
it impossible for it to inquire effectively into the
important matters before it. His line of allegation
was in keeping with that of the Communist counsel
beside whom he sat and with whom he openly
associated and co-operated in court. But when
repeatedly pressed for evidence of the conspiracy,
he suggested the names of only two witnesses—
one was that of an expert in handwriting, whom
the three judges unanimously refused to accept as
an expert; the other Dr. Bialoguski. He seemed
astonished, and the Communist party seemed vastly
amused, when Mr. Windeyer, Q.C., immediately and
casually said that he intended to call Dr.
Bialoguski.
The reason for Communist laughter became
obvious when Dr. Bialoguski was called. It then
transpired—to the consternation of most of the
polit-bureau of the Communist party which turned
up to hear him in grinning array—that he was one
of the Security Department’s agents; that the
Communist party and the Petrovs did not know
this, but believed him to be a rabid Communist. Dr.
Bialoguski gave specific evidence that an attempt
had been made by a Com. fellow-traveller to
persuade him to go into the box and blast Petrov’s
character.
Neither Dr. Evatt nor the Communist party
had any evidence other than their own abuse of
Security and the Petrovs to offer in support of their
conspiracy charges. All they had accomplished was
to delay the commission’s work, build an aura of
political controversy round it and cost the Govern-
ment thousands of pounds and the services of one
of the most valuable and efficient Security agents
it possessed.
At the stage at which the commission found
unanimously that there was not a vestige of evidence
of the conspiracy which Dr. Evatt and the Com-
munists alleged he was in a difficult position and
on the lookout for a red-herring.
He found it in the sectarian issue. Whatever
the merits of the case, it was one of the most
desperate manoeuvres ever attempted by a party-
leader in Australia.
His formula was his normal one of stampede
—the one that pictured the 1951 Budget of the
Menzies Government as a “horror Budget” bound
to lead to widespread depression and chaos and
ruin and starvation for the working-man. The
technique was the same as that pursued in relation
to the Petrov commission. It was again
the same formula as he used against the
innocent Australia First men when, after the
Communist party had agitated for their arrest and
internment, they were interned, and on the eve of
the opening of a royal commission he denounced
them, without a vestige of evidence to support his
charges, as agents of the Japanese prepared to stab
Australia in the back at the moment of its greatest
peril. As regards the Australia First body, his
charges proved as empty as those against Petrov and
Security. In the present instance he has discovered
among his own supporters another conspiracy to
take possession of the party and Australia.
The subsequent proceedings are so confused
that they must be bewildering to the average voter,
as they are intended to be. The spectacle of the
A.W.U. leaders supporting Dr. Evatt —who is keep-
ing aloof from them very coyly—backing his shout
against “The Movement,” which substitutes for the
“horror Budget” in the Doctor’s present panic
campaign, is astonishing in some of its aspects and
implications.
Mr. Dougherty, leader of the A.W.U. and the
“Right,” appearing as the champion and personal
adviser of Mr. Clive Evatt (the patroniser of
Communist-founded and -supported movements), in
opposition to Mr. Cahill, is a strange set-up; and
there is the queer situation of the strongest anti-
communist elements in the party demanding
inquiry not into the question of the alleged
gift to party funds of about £13,000 through the
Communist unions as the result of Dr. Evatt’s
appearance before the High Court in opposition to
the Communist-party Dissolution Bill, but into the
machinations of the industrial-groups which Dr.
Evatt brands as a sectarian conspiracy—still another
conspiracy!—and which Mr. Dougherty, his most
ardent and heated supporter, says “obviously can-
not be sectarian,” since the groups are a con-
glomeration of “ambitious go-getters, ex-Com-
munists, fellow-travellers and people who should
be Liberal-party members.
If this is true, of course, it gives the complete
lie to Dr. Evatt, who holds that the industrial-groups
are the instruments of Catholic Action, and it is
apt to cause bewilderment about Mr. Dougherty’s
own statement that Mr. Clive Evatt was sacked
from the Cahill Ministry because he insisted on
voting against the foundation of a Catholic
University. Mr. C. Evatt, incidentally, supported
this statement and was reported to have been told
in turn by a fellow caucus-member that his associa-
tion with half-baked Communist organisations made
him unfit to be a Cabinet Minister and that he had
shown himself to be a “sectarian liar.”
Mr. Heffron, Deputy Premier of N. S. Wales,
says that Mr. Dougherty’s speech to the A.W.U.
convention was “nothing but lies.”
It seems time that the press of Australia and
decent “Labor” men detached themselves from
the smokescreen of confusion which party-leaders
are deliberately letting down around the A.L.P.
fracas and came to consideration of the basis of
the whole row, which is that Dr. Evatt, leader of
the party, was caught in a trap and raised an issue
to divert public attention from the fact, and all
the present noise and powder-play represents an
attempt to save the party from being dragged down
to oblivion with him when he goes, as presently he
must. It is unthinkable that a man associated with
such proceedings as his against the royal commis-
sion should continue unchallenged as leader of the
Parliamentary Opposition.
Who Did the Compelling?
COMPULSORY-UNIONISM had been on the
statute-books of New South Wales over twelve
months when A.W.U. secretary Dougherty
“revealed” that a sinister body which he styled
“The Movement” had blackmailed the Cahill
Government into iritroducing it. During the six
months which had preceded the enactment of the
measure, when it was the subject of bitter con-
troversy, Dougherty sat pat, although it was being
repeated week after week that pressure had been
brought to bear on Cahill by the trade-union
movement. He set this example for himself quite
early in the piece—when the Government’s
intention to bring in compulsion was first
announced.
This was on the occasion of the 1953 A.L.P.
conference in Sydney. Cahill was then in London
for the Coronation, and his lieutenant, Heffron,
deputised for him at the conference, where, on
June 13, he made his announcement. Heffron was
not replying to a question; he had come along
with the express intention of breaking the glad
news. Compulsory-unionism, he told the delegates,
“would be embodied in legislation to amend the
Industrial Arbitration Act.” This wasn’t merely a
promise to do something in the remote future.
Cabinet had already been working on the amend-
ment “as late as last week,” and it hoped “to
complete the job next Tuesday.”
Heffron’s news was greeted with cheers and
shouts of “Hear, hear!” and if Dougherty did not
actually join in the cheers he gave such a good
imitation of doing so that no one noticed the
difference. This was possibly made easier by the
fact that he had plenty to be happy about, anyway,
because, in conjunction with the faction he is now
attacking, he had the numbers to defeat the “rebel”
ticket which was trying to capture the A.L.P.
machine. Today Dougherty himself is leading a
“rebel” faction against his allies of 1953.
Dr. Evatt, like Cahill, was coronating, so was
not called upon to comment. Deputy-leader
Calwell, representing his chief at the conference,
was so inspired by Heffron’s remarks that he
waxed eloquent over “Labor’s” future prospects:—
We might even live to see the day when we
evolve a one-party State in Australia. We are the
one truly Australian party. The only way Australia
can become great is when “Labor” governs for 10,
15 or 20 years. Only then can we say we will be
doing something to advance Australia fair.
At that time Arthur was supremely confident
that “Labor” would be in power in Canberra
within a matter of months, and was no doubt
hopeful that its reign would last 10, 15 or 20
years, with himself first as Treasurer, then as Prime
Minister and finally as the bearded G.O.M. of the
one-party State. Today he would probably be
pleased to settle for a one-faction party, with
himself in the surviving faction in any capacity.
The A.L.P. conference passed a resolution con-
gratulating Heffron on his message, but Tuesday’s
Cabinet-meeting passed without anything further
being announced on the subject. A week later
Heffron said “I am going to make it quite clear
that Cabinet has not made a declaration for or
against compulsory-unionism as yet.” Cabinet had
obviously discussed the matter at some length and
with no unanimity. The only decision it made was
to ask the Minister for Labor and Industry, Mr.
A. Landa, to get reports on the working of
compulsory-unionism in Queensland and New
Zealand—“the fullest possible reports.”
At this stage a by-election in Dulwich Hill
saw “Labor’s” majority reduced by more than
3000 votes, although only four months had passed
since the general election. For a while Cabinet
seemed to be shaken, though Heffron scoffed at
any suggestion of cause and effect. He also denied
that Cabinet was taking its instructions from the
Trades Hall, and said that
Cabinet would have considered compulsory-
unionism whether or not there was discussion
about it at the A.L.P. conference, whether there
was a by-election, or whether newspapers felt
obliged to express their opinion on it.
Brave words, but they covered the incidents
of only the few preceding weeks and ignored the
fact that at the 1952 A.L.P. conference a committee
had been set up to push compulsory-unionism and
that —according to statements in the press and in
Parliament, still undenied the committee
approached F. J. Finnan, then Minister for Labor
and Industry, in October, 1952, four months before
the general election, suggesting early legislation.
Finnan, says the report, replied by letter on
November 25, saying that Cahill had promised that
the proposed amendments would be given high
priority in the first session of the new Parliament.
In the absence of any denial of this story it
must be taken as fact that Cahill promised a trade-
union delegation four months before the election
that he would introduce compulsory-unionism if
returned to power, and that, despite an intention
to make this radical change in the ,N. S. Wales
industrial laws, he made no mention of it in his
policy-speech or at any time in the election-
campaign.
After Landa had been instructed to prepare a
report several months elapsed before any further
action was taken; the bill that was quickly nick-
named the Dog-collar Act was not introduced until
November 12, 1953. Whatever may have been
the dissensions of Cabinet and caucus behind the
scenes, “Labor” presented a united front to the
House. The bill was introduced by Landa, who
cannot be accused of membership of either Catholic
Action or the Protestant Federation, and member
after member proclaimed that it was doing no
more than putting into practice a plank which had
been in “Labor’s” platform for years.
Repeatedly, existing compulsions were quoted
as justifying further compulsion. Compulsory
education, compulsory voting and compulsory
military service were held to justify compulsory-
unionism. The weakness of the analogy of the
first two should be self-apparent. As to the third,
the forces are an instrument of the Government.
They represent the whole of the people and are
drawn from the whole of the people. And they are
strictly non-political. The trade-unions, although
forming a large section of the people, are still only
a section. And they are politically tied to the
“Labor” party, as the leaders of the “Labor” party
are proud to proclaim. It may be, of course, that
the sponsors of compulsory-unionism intend the
unions to become an instrument or department of
the Government—possibly in Calwell’s one-party
State —but no mention of this was made in the
debates, although Jack Lang in his “Century”
warned the trade-union movement that in accepting
compulsion it was handing itself over to Govern-
ment control. The debate ended with every “Labor”
member voting in favor of the bill—not excluding
Clive Evatt.
But in spite of that it is quite clear, and has
been from the start, that the initiative came from
outside Parliament. Whether the prodding came
from “The Movement” which Dougherty has dug
up, from a committee genuinely representative of
the trade-unions, from Rome, from Moscow or
from Dougherty himself is secondary to the fact
that it did not originate with Cabinet, was not
submitted to the people and was, indeed,
deliberately concealed from them until a critical
election had been won.


FREE-FOR-ALL


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Losers Win
The awarding of plaques to unofficial
“winners” of the Archibald and Wynne
prizes—judges, the art-critics of “S. M.
Herald” and Sydney “Sun”—is a plan
that' could be extended indefinitely,
especially as the “winner” of the two
plaques has expressed himself as more
pleased than if he had won the actual
prizes.
The obvious sequel of offering a medal
for competition among those who missed
out on the plaques will no doubt be
announced any day, with the art-critics
of the “Telegraph” and “Daily Mirror”
as arbiters of neglected taste. And after
the medals there could still be tiepins,
inscribed serviette-rings and engraved
bottle-openers for the really meritorious.
The scheme need not be confined to
the world of art. Why not unofficial
Rhodes Scholarships, “awarded” by the
editors of “Hermes” and “Honi Soit”
and entitling the holders to a year’s
membership of the Sydney (free)
Municipal Library?
In the sporting field punters would
probably appreciate unofficial placings in
Saturday’s races at Randwick and
Flemington, and who better to do the
judging than the tipsters of the daily
papers, who would not allow themselves
to be blinded by the published opinions
of the official judges? The controversy
over the composition of the cricket-team
to tour the West Indies could be resolved
by asking Bill O’Reilly, Sid Barnes and
Ray Robinson to choose an unofficial
side, the members of which would each
receive a set of picture-postcards showing
views of Trinidad and Jamaica. If these
and other critics were too modest to
accept the task, it could be given to
cricket-connoisseurs Bob Menzies and
Bert Evatt.
An inevitable sequel in that case would
be a demand for an unofficial verdict
after the people have had their say at a
general election. The judges would be
the defeated party, and the unofficial
winners declared by them would have
the right to form a shadow Government
and to tell the electors what they would
do if the shadow were converted into
substance. Which, after all, is what
happens already.
A.L.P. Mystery
The first real light has been thrown on
the question of the mysterious thousands
supposedly donated to A.L.P. funds as a
reward for Dr. Evatt’s appearance before
the High Court to oppose the Communist-
party Dissolution Act. Mr. Laurie
Short, of the Federated Ironworkers, has
spoken up.
If what Mr. Short says is true —and
who better able to know, since he has in-
herited the empire and account-books of
the Communist-run union of Mr. Ernie
Thornton, who actually briefed Dr. Evatt
to appear before the High Court? —
further light is needed.
Mr. Short said in Melbourne at a
public meeting that “Labor” had received
£9600, and “probably £13,000,” from
Communist-led trade-unions to support
the “No” vote in the referendum cam-
paign. And he showed reporters a re-
ceipt “acknowledging a contribution of
£lOOO from the Ironworkers’ Association
to the referendum fund.” Mr. Short was
reported in the daily press to have said:
I understand that, of the total contribu-
tions to the fund of £15,000, about £13,000
came from the Communist-led unions.
The Communist party does not give any-
thing away for nothing.
He might have added that the fact that
the money came from union funds would
not change the position that it would be
voted by Communist-party officials,
since they controlled the unions and their
coffers.
Mr. Short added that
a story which has been attributed to Mr.
Kim Beazley, M.P., is that there was a
conference between Kennelly, the general
secretary of the A.1.P., and Mr. E. Hill,
a Communist-party official and, according
to the story further, the Communist party
was to pay £13,000 to the fund in return
for certain services. I have no proof that
the conference took place, but I have
strong evidence that the Communist party
itself decided that the £13,000 would be
contributed. Are Kennelly and others
rendering those services now?
It is a matter which .certainly needs
probing, especially because of Dr. Evatt’s
alleged connection with it.
More "Freedom," Mr. Cahill?
“M.F.D.”: Even the most enthusiastic
supporters of 10-o’clock closing in
N.S.W. must have been astonished at
the amount of advance publicity
accorded it by the metropolitan daily
press and radio news-services ; and the
“enterprise” they showed in collecting
information and pictures about how the
“first night” of the new regime was cele-
brated. It was as if an oppressed people
had won a notable battle in the fight for
freedom; whereas all that happened was
that a practice which had been carried on
to a greater or lesser extent in many
places for many years had now become
legal; and people were now able to drink
intoxicating liquor openly Until 10 p.m.
instead of only 6 p.m., to the good
content of brewers and publicans.
Now that a start has been made at
restoring “freedom” to the people, may
N.S.W. citizens expect the Government
to take the next logical step and legislate
to enable small traders everywhere to
remain open at night and during week-
ends for the convenience of the public
and the improvement of their own not-
too-strong financial position? May they
expect also that bakers will be empowered
to bake and deliver bread on public holi-
days, so that there will be no repetition
of what happened on Tuesday, February
1, when tens of thousands of workers
and schoolchildren left home with lunches
cut from stale bread delivered the
previous Saturday? If a referendum were
held to decide whether these people
should have the “freedom” to serve the
public as it is entitled to be served, it
would almost certainly be carried by an
overwhelming majority.
What about it, Mr. Cahill?
"Ashes" to England
Cricket boils down to a tussle between
batsmen and bowlers. In any series of
matches between the chosen cricketers
of two countries there will emerge times
when batsmen are on top, times when
the duel is fairly even, and times when
the bowlers are on top. In the first
you get an era of big scores ; in the
second moderate scores; in the third
low scores.
Most of the press and radio critics
in the present Test series have overlooked
or ignored this. England held “The
Ashes.” While congratulating England
and skipper Hutton, too many critics
blame the Australian selectors for the
alleged “debacle.” It is doubtful if the
notorious “bodyline” uproar of 1932-33
caused so much frothing at the mouth
in Australian newspapers as England’s
well-earned victory this time.
According to some of them, the selectors
should be shot at dawn for choosing the
side which England defeated last week,
yet it was substantially the same batting
side that knocked-up 600-odd runs in the
first Test and won by an innings. After
Australia lost the second Test the news-
papers chose their own teams and
demanded that the selectors accept them.
The selectors rightly ignored them, where-
upon there arose something like a scream
of “They can’t do this to us.”
Criticism is legitimate, but this time
it has variously been childish, spiteful,
feeble and ignorant. All true cricket
enthusiasts know that the better team won
and give it all due praise. There is no
evidence of any kind that Australia
would have won with any other team.
And it is worth remembering that this
is a bowlers’ era in big cricket —a rather
welcome change. And good bowlers
have proved they can draw crowds as
well as good batsmen.
Time, Ladies, Please!
Present Bulletin staff-member went
along to have a look at the first evening’s
imbibing under the new N.S.W. 10-
o’clock rules. So did most of the suburb
—with wives, or girl-friends, or others
. . . anyway, with feminine accompani-
ment.
The hostelry was The Oaks, alongside
the tram-depot at Neutral Bay. It has
long run to a “beer-garden,” with an
English oak in the middle of a setting
of solid and colored chairs and tables —
a good-class pub by any standards, with
plenty of room in the bars, and new
building in progress, presumably with an
eye to winter.
Many of the crowd looked to be also
there out of curiosity. Most within
earshot said so. One wife said she’d
come along only because she knew that
then the men would come home early.
She was still there at “Time, ladies,
please.”
Most likely because of the feminine
element, it looked like as civilised drink-
ing as you could see. If anything can
knock the hog-swill it might well be this
mixing of sexes—if it continues. The
ladies, on this suburban evidence, have
a steadying effect. Apart from making
quite a difference from a decorative point
of view.
The hard-drinkers stayed in the bars.
Outside there was a good deal of linger-
ing over drinks, as well as —through the
time taken in getting them—a lot longer
than normal between drinks, which could
also become established and a whale of
an improvement.
On a general summing-up, it looked
sane, bright and pleasant. There could
be a revolution in the State’s drinking.
Pubs that haven’t got open-air and such-
like civilised accommodation will be
driven by competition to install it. New
pub-budding will keep it in mind.
By way of credentials and bona fides,
present observer freely admits he did
imbibe during the evening. He asked for
tomato-juice, and was so astonished at
getting it that he stuck to it. He ascribes
his hangover to the beautiful scenery.
Who'll Miss Out?
Frayed nerves of “Labor” men in Sydney
Federal electorates are not likely to be
soothed by preliminary reports of the
electoral commissioners charged with the
job of redrawing the electoral map in
accordance with population-trends shown
in last year’s census. New South Wales
is to lose one Federal seat, and the com-
missioners are said to have recommended
the abolition of two “Labor”-held inner-
metropolitan seats and the creation of a
new seat out of portions of the sprawling
Mitchell and Werriwa electorates. The
two seats recommended for the axe are
Grayndler, held by “Labor” Whip F.
Daly, and Martin, held by F. O’Connor.
If love and friendship prevailed in the
ranks of “Labor” one of the dispossessed
would probably be accommodated with
the new seat. It might even be possible
to do something for the other; at least
one old and faithful member is said to
be contemplating retirement. But in the
present mood of the party things are not
likely to be arranged as simply and as
smoothly as that. For instance, can it be
said that the old and faithful member is
faithful to the same faction as the two
members whose seats are threatened?
Moreover, it does not necessarily follow
that, if Grayndler and Martin are the two
seats to go, their present occupants will
go, too. There has been a drastic re-
drawing of the boundaries of all the
southern- and eastern-suburban seats,
most of which are held by “Labor,” so
Daly and O’Connor may well claim that
the proper procedure is a game of
musical-chairs, with at least the holders of
seats adjoining their old territories
participating.
But before that happens the whole
“Labor” circus may have blown its big-
top, with the winning faction claiming the
right to O.K. all nominations. In that
case, instead of musical-chairs, the party-
game is more likely to be beggar-my-
neighbor.
Plain Talk to Asians
Protocol in Canberra is apt to be mys-
terious, but one of its most curious
manifestations must surely be the invita-
tions given to Asian diplomats there to
attend the citizenship conventions
arranged annually by the Immigration
Department. Australia receives no per-
manent migrants from Asia, and our
motives in not seeking any are perfectly
well understood and accepted in Asian
countries —although at least one Asian
diplomat has been indiscreet enough to
criticise this policy in this country.
The convention this year heard several
grave warnings of the menace to Aus-
tralia of the situation in Asia. The
Governor-General said that the dangers
of a high migration-intake “must be
faced, to avoid worse.” Immigration
Minister Harold Holt was even more
explicit. Urging a population-goal of
20 million within 25 years, and stressing
the vulnerability of Britain’s population
and industry ‘4n this age of potential
atomic destruction,” he pointed out that
Australia, “poised in this South-East
Asian area,” should be strengthened by
more dispersal of British people.
While all this was going on, the
Japanese Ambassador and his family sat
impassively in the front row, alongside
French, British, Dutch and Italian diplo-
mats. In the second row were the Indian
High Commissioner beside the U.S. Am-
bassador, and those in the third row
included Siamese and Philippines
representatives.
There is no reason, of course, why
these people from Asian countries should
not know of our migration aims and the
reasons for them. Our population-targets
are not secret, and all Asia is well aware
of the urgency of our need for popula-
tion, and why we think this growth so
important. Yet it seemed poor taste on
the part of the organisers of the conven-
tion that these representatives of our
Asian neighbors should have been in-
vited, and perhaps somewhat tactless on
the part of those particular diplomats
that they should have attended. Having
no possible part to play in our immigra-
tion discussions, surely they would not
have felt slighted if they had not been
asked along, and the representatives of
Britain, Australia and Europe might have
felt more at ease in underlining Australia’s
major problem.
However, as the Asians were there,
they heard some plain talk on the situa-
tion, so perhaps no harm was done. Next
time, sureiy, their presence will be
regarded as unnecessary.
Politics and Industry
“In the ACT”: According to the retiring
president of the Australian Council of
Employers’ Federations, industrial
matters are too closely related to party
politics for the good of Australia’s
economy. His attack was on trade-union
officials who paid no heed to the subject
of greater production, and who treated
management with suspicion and intoler-
ance because any other attitude might
stifle political ambition.
This criticism was justified by the
known facts, but it covered only part of
the picture. It would be equally proper
to criticise industry for its neglect of the
practical side of politics —the getting into
the Parliament of men with knowledge
of affairs and management, and keeping
them there.
In other words, we have too little
“industry” in politics. Few men making
their way up in industry, and aiming at
or reaching managerial status, are
inclined to make the sacrifice of time,
money and future business prospects
involved in the hazardous and not-too-
highly rewarded business of seeking
Parliamentary seats. Yet the nation
badly needs such men in running the
nation’s business, and their influence
could be out of proportion to their
numbers.
The average businessman feels he has
done enough in the line of politics when
he makes a subscription or gives a dona-
tion to a political party. A few others
serve on committees and executives, and
drive their cars around on election-days.
It would be better if there were con-
certed effort by groups of such men to
find among their number those who
would be prepared to offer themselves as
gladiators in the political arena, to suffer
the wounds which any good fighter must
expect; but to have the chance, too, of
recording achievements of far-reaching
value to the community.
A survey of the occupations of
Parliamentarians shows a depressing lack
of persons capable of speaking adequately
on the problems and prospects of
industry, or of introducing into national
affairs some of the drive and clear think-
ing which is necessarily characteristic of
private enterprise. It would be a good
thing if employers’ federations and
similar bodies devoted some time to
examining this problem, to discover how
and when it will be possible to put more
industry into politics.'
Trigger-happy Asia
There is little doubt that this month
and the next will be crucial in Asia.
Anything might happen in the Tachens,
where the largest U.S. fleet, stripped for
action, that has moVed since 1945 is
covering the evacuations. With trigger-
happy Chinese and Russian pilots —for
there are certainly Russians among the
MIG airmen—of the types who last week
were engaged in a senseless and provoca-
tive assault on United States aircraft off
the Korean coast, flying the skies, the
danger is real.
Australia can look at whatever situa-
tion develops with misgiving. While a
large section of unforgiving public
opinion, headed by men like Dr. Evatt
and the Communist leaders, are doing
their utmost to make Japan a permanent
enemy of the West, Russia is moving
in at the same time both to intimidate
and to conciliate that country, so vital to
the defence of the West in the new
strategy.
Technically still at war with Japan,
Moscow has made the same sort of peace-
offer as has been made to West Germany,
though details are not available. When
the approach reaches its crisis no doubt
the Kremlin will offer, with the assist-
ance of China, markets at price-levels
as low as suits Japan. Both Russia and
China are short of consumer-goods and
(i Continued on next page l


shipping, and rich at the same time in
exchangeable metals.
Side-by-side with the conciliation and
temptation goes the monotonously regu-
lar explosion of new atom-bombs and
hydrogen-bombs in areas where their
aftermaths produce shuddering/ echoes
throughout the Asiatic world. They are
exploded at seasons when the winds help
to make the rains which fall over Japan
radioactive. There seems to be design in
this, knowledge of how allergic the
Japanese, the only people who know from
first-hand experience what atomic bomb-
ing means, are to anything connected
with nuclear war.
The stage is fast coming when, even
if there is no open war in the Far East,
there will be a major struggle for
Japanese friendship, or at least neutral-
ity—a condition which would be well-
nigh impossible in the event of a world
war.
Whatever develops, Australia’s major
problem seems to be the allegiance and
co-operation of its own people and the
suppression of the enemy within. As
the crisis approaches, not only the Com-
munist section of unionism but some
other elements are raising their voices
on the side of Russia. Mr. Healy, of the
Watersiders, who assumes that he is the
dictator of the country, has announced
glibly that he and his Communist Govern-
ment of the wharves will “outlaw” labor
supplied legally by shipowners and are
prepared to sanction only conditions of
work and employment which suit them-
selves. The voice of a Mr. Davis, general
president of the Australian Workers’
Union, is dead against sending Australian
troops to Malaya (about which “Labor”
screamed at the British Government for
not defending in this country’s interest
in the last war) because it seemed to him
that to stop the Communists, who are
marshalling openly in Siam across the
border, and the immigrant Communist
Chinese from having their way and
approaching nearer to the Common-
wealth’s shores amounts to “defence of
colonialism and capitalist exploitation.”
The Government will need a firm hand
and a cool head until it has decided
where its interests lie. The one thing
which seems clear is that there
should be full accord between all
the countries of the British Common-
wealth, a relationship which one or tv/o
of the Sydney journals and their writers
in London are at present doing their best
to break down.
POLITICAL POINTS
At the proceedings of the TV com-
mission in Sydney the most intriguing
sight was the spectacle of counsel for
the “Sunday Pot” getting the chief pro-
prietor of the “Sunday Kettle” to admit
that a recent issue of his rag was not
as unsoiled as it might have been.
• •
Premier Gair has been complaining
that Queensland is getting less loan-
money per head than any other State in
the Commonwealth. He has no right to
say a thing like that —Cahill copyrighted
it years ago.
• •
All attempts to have a royal commis-
sion appointed to investigate the doings
of Sydney City Council have failed, but
Brisbane City Council is at least doing
something to let the public into its
secrets. It has hired Jack Davey to con-
duct a 45-minute radio-quiz on questions
“designed to educate listeners on the
council’s vital place in local-government.”
• •
Because the N. S. Wales Licensing
Court has granted variations in the new
trading-hours to some hotels near the
City Markets and on the waterfront
“temperance” advocates are protesting
that this makes it possible for a man to
get drunk before he goes to work in the
morning. Don’t these people realise that
if a man is determined to get drunk he
can do so even if the pubs are shut all
day?
• •
Once again the Cahill Government has
gone over the heads of departmental
chiefs and granted wage-increases with-
out recourse to the court. Employees of
the almost-bankrupt Government trans-
port services are the recipients of this
favored treatment, but Transport Minister
Wetherell has admitted that railwaymen
will probably benefit also.
An application for increased margins
has been made by the tram and bus men,
and Transport Commissioner Shoebridge
has lodged a counter-claim. Instead of
allowing these claims to be decided by
Conciliation Commisioner Tonkin, the
Government, intervened and made a
“consent-agreement” applying the 2\
times formula of the metal-trades award.
Shoebridge was instructed to withdraw
his counter-claim.
Immediate results of this policy will be
bigger deficits (or higher fares) and de-
mands from employees of other Govern-
ment departments for the same favor.
Cahill’s Government professes to be-
lieve in arbitration, but in practice it
leaves wage-earners in private industry to
line up in the arbitration-queue while
Government employees get special treat-
ment.
This, of course, is election-year, but
the Cahills aren’t thinking merely of that.
The bribe is really meant to buy the
transport-unions’ support in “Labor’s”
family squabble. And it will be paid
by the taxpayer.
• •
Dougherty, who holds that Com-
munism can be successfully fought only
by the “Labor” party and from inside the
unions—though not through industrial-
groups—claims it could be wiped out
completely if employers put aside two
hours each month and allowed their
workers to attend the meetings. “Let
the boss pay for union-meetings and
there will not be a Communist in this
country.” In other words Dougherty’s
followers hate Communism, but don’t
hate it enough to attend union meetings
in their own time.
• •
Cain’s Victorian Government proposes
to do what the authorities in Britain do
—make “zebra” crossings safe by steeply
increasing the penalty for any motorist
who fails to give way to a pedestrian using
the crossing. In N.S.W. the Cahills
weakly abandoned the zebra-crossing
idea on the ground that nobody obeyed
the law regarding them.
• •
Playford’s Department of Lands is still
seeking a name for the “new satellite
city” being built north of Salisbury, about
25 miles from Adelaide. They could try
the English method and call it Much
Salisbury, the existing Salisbury would
become Little Salisbury, and all the little
places around would become Chipping
Salisbury, Salisbury End, Salisbury Rise
and so forth.
• •
Nine-hundred tickets were pinched
from the Victorian lottery office. The
public has been warned not to buy them,
as they are useless. But aren’t most
lottery-tickets useless?
• •
A Gallup poll says most Australians
think aborigines should have the right
to vote because they admire the intelli-
gence of aborigines. Wrong ; what they
admire is what a lot of sentimental asses
say about that intelligence. Few Aus-
tralians have ever had a discussion with
an abo. All the same, it is doubtful if
abos could display less voting-intelligence
than many, many white Australians.
• •
Sartorial trouble brought miners in a
N. S. Wales southern district pit into
the news a fortnight ago when it was
reported that a mine-manager was insist-
ing on their wearing shorts underground
instead of indulging their personal predi-
lections for their wives’ panties, their
grandfathers’ old-school ties or their own
bare and unashamed skin. Adelaide
TEST-CRICKET BLUES
trammies, similarly affected by the heat,
have also had clothing-trouble. They’ve
so far kept their pants on, but have won
permission to remove their tunics when
the thermometer registers 85 degrees.
• • '
An American high-school girl who
was made to write out the complete
text of Eisenhower’s State-of-the-Union
’broadcast as a punishment for talking
while she was supposed to be listening to
it later sent the President her 7700-word
“imposition” and received his apology
for the length of it. If politicians gave
a little thought to putting more meat
and fewer words into their speeches
they’d be much easier to listen to.
• •
Victoria’s Parliamentary refreshment-
rooms are expected to lose £14,000 this
year in providing members with two-
course meals at 2s. 6d. and three-course
meals at 3s. The British House of
Commons made a profit of £425 on its
refreshment-services last year. The
Mother of Parliaments has some spend-
thrift children.
• •
“Labor’s” Federal executive —Evatt-
controlled —ordered the Victorian A.L.P.
to hold a special Victorian conference on
February 26, at which it hoped to muster
sufficient support to throw out the
present Vic. executive and elect one
nearer to its own heart. Last week the
Vic. executive decided to defy the order
and hold its conference at Easter. Next
move is up to the Doc.’s group—er,
faction.
• •
Tasmania’s general election will take
place on February 19, a month ahead of
the big boilover and a week ahead of the
Vic. conference, if any.
Cosgrove is asking to be judged on
his record. He claims that the State has
progressed steadily from the condition in
which “Labor” found it when it assumed
office. As “Labor” came to power in
1934, when the depression was just taking
the knock, this claim is not a very boast-
ful one. What the electors want to know
is what has his Government done in the
past five years.
• •
Latest example of controls-gone-mad.
A Sydney plumber with a contract to do
some work on a property near Rylstone
(about 140 miles 'west of Sydney) took
the materials for the job up there in his
-own lorry. He was haled before a Court
of Petty Sessions and charged with having
operated a lorry in unlawful competition
with the N. S. Wales Railways. He was
fined £2 and ordered to pay £6 6s.
“charges” to the Commissioner for Motor
Transport. The mind that thought up
that one would have been capable of
charging Wentworth, Blaxland and
Lawson full fare for crossing the Blue
Mountains.
• •
Another French Government has gone
the way of all French Governments. The
lost confidence-motion which ended M.
Mendes-France’s eight-months reign was
on the subject of North African policy,
and the National Assembly rejected it by
319 votes to 273. The Government’s fall
was not really surprising. Mendes-France
came to power on a promise of bringing
about a cease-fire in Indo-China. He
achieved that and also won the Assembly’s
consent to German rearmament, but the
interests which combined to put him in
office were too diverse to keep him there
once their immediate aims were accom-
plished.
• •
Whitlam, “Labor” M.H.R. for
Werriwa, has been accusing High Court
judges of political bias. He claims two
rather elderly occupants of that Bench
purposely postponed their retirements
until after “Labor” had been defeated in
1949. The trouble with Whitlam is that
he has been rather too close to another
former High Court judge who left the
Bench much earlier than most.
• •
“In the ACT”: All political parties
are currently sensitive to sectarian issues,
and there has been a good deal of interest
in figures recently published by the Acting
Statistician of the strength of religious
groups in Canberra —where more than
half the total “work-force” is in Gov-
ernment employ. The census question on
the subject was answered by 92.4 per
cent, of the 30,315 population. It
showed that the denominations with the
largest number of adherents were
Anglican, 11,579; Roman Catholic and
“Catholic,” 9337 ; Presbyterian, 3006 ;
Methodist, 1807; Lutheran, 430 ; and
Greek Orthodox, 426. The greatest
numerical increase since 1947 was
recorded by the Roman Catholics, up
112 per cent., or a total of 4933. Angli-
cans increased by 63 per cent., and the
other churches by smaller percentages.
• ' •
After some years of adding to the Can-
berra housing-shortage by taking over
houses, flats and boarding-houses at a
great rate, the Australian National Uni-
versity has discovered that it has over-
done it. It has handed back Brassey
House to the authorities for the use of
the public, and it may yet relinquish at
least some of the other establishments.
University House is a de-luxe establish-
ment much favored by the staff, and is
largely responsible for the changed out-
look on the accommodation problem.
• •
“Melbn”: The Jolimont railway-
yards scheme has been followed by a
proposal to build a three-deck car-park
over the Yarra at a cost of £5-million.
This is a really good idea. Since the City
Council has allowed the stream to be
turned into the town drain, the Rivers
and Water Commission and the Harbor
Board have allowed it to silt up and
become' useless for shipping and the
bridge-builders have made it inaccessible
to anything above the class of dinghy, it
might as well be covered up and left to
continue its smellful passage to the sea,
unhonored and forgotten. Councillor
Higginson, author of the scheme,
estimates that the roofing-over would add
£107,000 a year to council revenue.
• •
A bill to provide for the transfer of
the Cocos Islands to Australian
sovereignty is now before the House of
Commons.
• •
“Actin’’: Australians who realise the
nearness of the creeping Communist
threat to this country should have a
fellow-feelifig for Canadians, who are
increasingly conscious of the fact that
they lie between Russia and the United
States by the most direct route over the
Pole. They were reminded of this by
their Minister for External Affairs, Lester
Pearson, on the eve of his departure for
London. After pointing out that policies
being worked out in Washington to deal
with developments on Formosa were
American, and that Canada was not com-
mitted by them, Pearson added
However, though we may not be com-
mitted by American policies, we certainly
cannot escape the consequences of • what
may be decided in Washington or Peking.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
TT would have been easier to judge the
-*• effect of Sydney’s 10-o’clock closing
on the public the first night if the public
had not been elbowed out by reporters
reporting the effect of 10-o’clock closing
on the public.—“Nunk.”
“Viper”: With N.S.W. restaurants
now serving grog for two hours longer
than the pubs, we may see the intro-
duction of a legal lurk from Sweden.
Swedes are never allowed to buy grog
unless food is also served. Bars serve-up
plastic chickens.
S 5 * S •
“Metralia”: In New York the bars
close one hour early on Saturday nights.
Reason? So people will be fresh for
church in the morning. I’ve heard New
Yorkers grumble about the narrow-
mindedness of this law. The bars shut
at 3 a.m. instead of 4 a.m.
❖ ♦>
“Nakhoda”: A tale you hear anywhere
in the Orient concerns the coolie who
walked into the Supreme Court in
Singapore while it was in session, placed
a ladder against the wall behind the Chief
Judge’s throne, removed the clock and
nonchalantly walked out of the court-
room, clock and all. There has been a
fresh variant in Melbourne. A person
dressed as a workman strolled into the
Exhibition Building at the opening of the
Better Food Exhibition, rolled up a
Persian rug worth £BO, put it on his
shoulder and walked off, while hundreds
looked on. The rug belonged to the
British Australian Paper Company.
“Cag”: At Melbourne’s Better Food
Exhibition experts had me drooling as I
stood watching them concoct colorful
magazine-meals. Some stands offered
(free!) delectable savories for my appro-
val. Others gave me tips on diet, and
hints galore. I marvelled at germ-proof
food-handling and -wrapping processes.
In that vast Exhibition Building it was
as though some Mandrake of a chef had
materialised the color-plates from an
expensive cookery-book. I resolved to
become a Better Eater. There would be
a New Deal in my bachelor kitchenette.
The table would no longer be stained
with odious juices from fish-and-chips,
pies and pasties, pigs’-trotters, and other
bits of gastronomical garbage. I would
be a reformed culinary character . . .
an epicure ... a gourmand. My kitchen
would become a temple; its table an
altar. And all around me would arise
sweet-smelling savors. Leaving the
Better Food exhibits a few yards behind
me, I arrived at the Exhibition Building
bar. I had to breast it with dozens of
others jockeying for positions. The usual
wet rings and small puddles on the
counter, and speedily rinsed glasses. My
vision of gracious living was banished. I
sighed into my beer, wiped the conse-
quent ffoth from my nose, and left.
What’s the use! On the way home I
collected a couple of chicken-rolls and
some dim-sims,
ijt
“No Sirrah”: Seixas at the micro-
phone (B. 12/1 /’55). Yes, and Trabert
"No more haircuts — this'll be cheaper."
and Talbert at the microphone—how
they showed our tongue-tied lads up!
Every U.S. man to speak was poised,
able, witty in the right parts and
pleasant to listen to. Why are Australians
so set on the idea that to speak well in
public is sissy? According to Clive
Harburg, A.B.C. sports-commentator in
Queensland, the U.S. sportsman gets
mike-experience as soon as he wins his
first tournament. Part of his training is
in the making of the necessary speeches
at such things as Davis Cup presenta-
tions. Ours should be given similar
drill, because, contrary to what some of
“Got a piece of soap, mister?”
them seem to think, there’s nothing
charming or even likeable about a tongue-
tied public man in front of a mike.
■£+ +l+
“Polkiju” (Adelaide): A woman arriv-
ing in this city of churches and pubs from
inter-State set out to try to book herself
a bed for an event still a few months off.
At the end of a tiring day she reported
to her husband that in her opinion any
woman who wanted to book herself a
bed in a maternity hospital would have
to do it at least twelve months ahead.
*j+ ***
“Spasebo”: I see that a great song-
and-dance has been made over the fact
that a Russian' poet wept tears of joy
and sadness at the celebrations of
Scotland’s national poet. Why this
should be regarded as an insult is hard
to imagine. Burns isn’t the only British
poet to have been an inspiration in
Russia. Byron was the great inspiration
of Pushkin, because of his liberal opinions,
and Pushkin was the real founder of
Russian literature, and his poems were
the chief stimulus of the revolution; so
it might be said that Byron was the father
of both Russian literature and the Russian
revolution. X don’t suppose either Byron
or Burns had the slightest intention of
foisting Communism upon the world
when they wrote their poems, but would
the Scots be as proud of their Rabbie if
he had been like the dreary old professors
who are clustering round his grave making
speeches about him at the present
moment?
❖ +♦♦
“0.G.”: The woman leaning out of
the upstairs window was trying to see
the commotion just around the corner.
“Can you explain why she doesn’t fall
to her death?” asked the nervous old
gentleman. “Must have her heels hooked
under the bed,” said the young engineer-
ing student.
+♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Bullswool”: “Hallcraft” (B. 19/1/’55)
wants to know how it is that most people
start their radio- and television-interviews
with “Well ” Well, I don’t know.
But I think I know the reason for the
popularity of certain words that come
into our everyday speech, linger a while
and then pass on. I think we still have
“current” and “currently” with us, used
as synonyms for “present” and “at
present.” This is legitimate if it is not
overdone. The fact that it is overdone
(current programme, the Premier is
currently doing something or other)
is a reminder that the fashion began
in the U.S.A. So did that awful compound
“know-how,” used as a synonym for
knowledge. So did “belly-laugh” for
hearty laugh. If one is to be up-to-date,
seem s one has to echo Uncle Sam. If
Sai P war Jts to do this sort of thing, well
and B ood - If w e want to manhandle the
language, let us perform the assault and
batter y ourselves.
* * *
“Sam”: Parramatta is to figure in the
film-series “Australian Diary,” produced
by the Department of the Interior’s News
and Information Bureau. Mr. Beale,
M.P. for Parramatta, suggested the pro-
duction to Minister of the Interior Kent
Hughes, after representations had been
made to him by Mr. F. C. Berry, of the
Parramatta Agricultural Society. The
film will be in color, and will feature
advanced methods of color-processing.
Parramatta’s fine park and its many old
colonial buildings make it a particularly
suitable subject for a color-film.
♦♦♦ +>
“R.A.”: Junior, aged 8, was goaded
into reciting for a special-occasion party.
On line three of the epic he struck ground
too rough for even his well-oiled
audience. “Who .. . who ... taught you
that?” stammered Dad. Came the im-
pregnable answer: “Mum did.”
♦ ♦ ❖
“Clyne”: Unk White’s drawing of the
old dowager’s annoyance when only two
rings were showing in her portrait re-
minds me of the time I colored photos
for a living. Was faced one day by an
irate mother armed with a photo I had
colored of her child. I had put a few
strokes in to suggest eyelashes, and that
was the cause of the trouble. Mama
would have me know “her child had most
beautiful eyes and thick lashes”; every-
one admired them, and the idea of put-
ting in only eleven lashes (she had counted
them) .. . Words failed her. The photo
must be altered!
❖ *
TYEFORE any coarse listener hangs
some such name on it as Australian
Bulsh Commission, wouldn’t it be an idea
for the A.B.C. and its Mr. Boyer, who
has been questioning press integrity, to
have a look at the A.B.C.’s own share
of that commodity? Perhaps begin by
telling cricket-broadcasters that some-
thing closer to eyewitness (and earwitness)
factual reporting of what goes on is what
they’re there for. No one listening to the
A.B.C. on Monday afternoon last week
could have guessed that, for much of the
time, the crowd was fed-up to the neck
and wasn’t keeping its feelings to itself.
The England tactics were unquestionably
sound, and the Hutton, Cowdrey and
Compton execution of those tactics was
just about perfect, but that has nothing
to do with the A.B.C. guff-omission. The
press, in case Mr. Boyer doesn’t read it,
can still be honest, in spots. Thus, “S. M.
Herald” writer Lindsey Browne, on what
the A.B.C. smothered over with jam:
England’s laboriously cautious batting in
the fourth Test today exasperated the
40,000 Adelaide crowd into several insulting
outbursts of slow handclapping, whistles,
jeers and collective sarcasms, but “Send for
Bailey” was the only cry that had a sting
of wit in it. The crowd was certainly pro-
voked.
Regretfully, I now begin to listen to my
well-beloved A.B.C. with some doubt,
all round. Who am Ito separate sheep
from goats?—“Soc.”
THE LIMIT
The chairman of the Broadcasting Commission wants an inquiry into the press
To find out if their news is wrong or right;
And Professor Bland, M.P., thinks the public service might work, more-or-less,
If only there were an inquiry to let in some light.
We got ten-o’clock beer out of an inquiry in N. S. Wales,
But often enough recommendations of inquiries only go on a shelf;
There seems to be only one kind of inquiry that never fails,
And that is the inquiry an organisation makes into itself.
Look at the “Labor” party putting itself through hoops:
“Allegations of blackmail, lies, a challenge to a public debate,
And a charge that ‘only fools and traitors’ would want to destroy A.L.P. industrial-
groups,”
Were only part of one day’s play—Australia Day was the dale.
You might think they’d joined the Oxford Movement, from their offers of tax-
returns
And confessions of all being Communists at seventeen; but the fact is
Since no “Laborite” could ever grow wiser for what he learns
Understanding and forgiving all will never be “Labor” practice.
But if broadcasters inquire into the press, and the press inquires into the commission,
Let everyone be careful how much he inquires or tells:
The world is so immoral it would perish from inanition
If anybody couldn’t believe he had something on somebody else.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T ATELY read the effort turned in by
E a student told to write an essay on
“A Journey to School,” set a class pre-
paring for the Commonwealth Public
Service entrance-examination. The essay
had attracted a 95 per cent, marking,
since the style was attractive, the writing
concise and the subject-matter entertain-
ing in that it described, among other
diversions en route to school, a visit to
the pub, several pots in the public bar,
and a round or two in the passion-pit,
a wager on the trots, more grogs in the
public bar and, finally, a belated arrival
at the school, where the writer concluded
that he was a bit too much under the
influence to enter class and decided to
abandon lessons for that day. The P.S.
entrance-exam, results published early
this month showed the very original
essayist as passing in all subjects, which
was a pretty good effort for a 41-year-old
Seventh Divvy man who had left school
at primary standard and, so late in life,
"What have you done with MY portrait , Romeo ?”
settled down to study again.—“Curate’s
Egg.”
❖ ♦> *
“Birubi”: I wanted to see the last day
of the Melbourne Test, so took along
my blonde friend, whose strong-suit is
Chopin, not cricket. It was hot, and I
got hotter trying to explain who was “in”
and who was “out,” why the two men
with the hats on never seemed to do any
fielding, and why the sightscreens weren’t
made of glass so that she could see better.
Tyson had already bowled four in double-
quick time when my friend (now begin-
ning to understand the game a “little
better”) suddenly asked: “If it’s Tyson
causing all the trouble why don’t they
get him out?.”
“Karrimba”: One of Melbourne’s
inner-suburban ancient terraces, which
my train passes daily, bears what might
be a reminiscence of the owner-specula.-
tor’s penchant for a good time: “Felicia, ’
“Heraclea,” “Bacchus,” “Festus” and
“Cestus.”
♦♦♦ *>
“Jez”: I’ve met 16-year-olds in this
year of grace who don’t know how to
use a telephone, so “Nunk” (B. 5/l/’55)
was not so clueless ; but first days do have
a habit of catching the
unitiated unawares. In 1933,
during my first day at Brisbane
Teachers’ College, we new
recruits were interviewed by the
principal, one John Morris, a
fanatically musical Welshman.
Irrespective of talent or inclina-
tion, we were required to render
him a song, impromptu and
unaccompanied. Terror-stricken,
one miserable boy burst out
tunelessly with “Today I Feel
So Happy.”
*l* ❖
“Melbn”: Like every other
Melbourne daily, “Sun-Pix”
came out with a solemn leader
castigating officialdom and the
public for their Australia Day
apathy and suggesting that the
date which should be celebrated
should be that on which Captain
Phillip hoisted the flag on the
shores of Sydney Cove. “On
that day, everywhere, we should
raise the Australian flag,” con-
cluded the leader-writer, and to
give point to this noble state-
ment the make-up man inserted
a picture of the flag of New
Zealand.
“Lynece”: I used to wonder if there
was a word to describe the idiots who
collect matchbox-labels. A paragraph in
the London “Times” has enlightened my
darkness:
What upsets the British phillumenists is
that they feel they cannot take pride in
our own national matchbox-labels.
❖ ❖ *>
“Muskeen”: The drawer of the cheque
on which exchange is payable is
responsible for its payment (B. 26/1/’55).
If “Mullum” pays exchange on a cus-
tomer’s cheque he cannot claim for it, as
he had no authority from the customer
to pay it. However, if he issues a receipt
“on account” for the net amount of the
cheque, less exchange, he can carry for-
ward the amount of the exchange as an
account rendered. I find that most people
add exchange to cheques, whether
requested to or not, but there are a
certain number of narks who will not do
so “on principle.” They are on a par
with those co-operative citizens who
invariably deduct discount when they
make payment on a six-months-old
statement clearly marked Strictly No
Discount.
THIRD-DIMENSIONAL LOVER
“Fewer women than may be supposed allow
their emotions to be swayed by the superficiali-
ties in men. The man who wears an air of
profundity has a distinct advantage in the lists
of love.” —Radio speaker.
Some depend, for an impression
On impressionable woman,
On the fortuitous possession
Of a strength thafs superhuman;
While others put their promise in
jocundity,
Feeling that the ones they’re after
Will more readily be yielding
To the subtle charm of laughter . . .
But far stronger he who’s wielding
The devastating weapon of pro-
fundity.
You could have a tongue of honey,
Be a wiz. at aquaplaning,
Or be loaded down with money.
Your ideas of entertaining
May be of quite remarkable
fecundity.
You could be a flatterer blatant;
You could possibly keep pace with
Roger Bannister. But patent-
Ly you’re never in the race with
The cove who’s always steeped in
great profundity.
How should this be, you are asking ?
That’s the sixty-eight-quid question !
Could be something he is masking,
Such as chronic indigestion;
Perhaps it’s moodiness, or mori-
bundity.
Is a dark past on him preying ?
Girls love mysteries, remember . . .
But, withal, there’s no gainsaying
That he fans Romance’s ember
Who seems to meditate with great
profundity.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
IN THE JUG
TVTANCY Keesing’s article, “Imprisoned
Pressmen” (B. 15/12/’54), dealing
with two very early Bulletin contribu-
tors —Carl Cronquist and Theodore
Emile Argles (“Harold Grey”)—who had
been in jail, mentioned that that distinc-
tion was also shared by the paper’s two
founders, J. F. Archibald and John
Haynes, respectively associate-editor and
advertising-manager, when they were
arrested and put in the debtors’-quarters
in Darlinghurst jail for failure to pay the
costs in the famous Clontarf libel case.
There are details of that interesting
event (particularly the manner of their
life in the jug) which have not
hitherto been told.
The Bulletin, against which one-
farthing damages had been awarded,
made an application for a new trial, but
this was refused by the N.S.W. Full
Court (December, 1881). The costs, by
then about £l5OO, had been reduced by
about £BOO in public subscriptions, and it
“I like HER so much I had her done in Cinemascope .”
was for the unpaid balance of £7OO that
Archibald and Haynes were arrested.
They were imprisoned early in March,
1882, and the March 11 Bulletin con-
tains a notification to that effect in a
leader entitled “The Majesty of the Law,”
written by W. H. Traill, who had also
written the Clontarf libel, and who,
ironically, wasn’t jugged, despite the fact
that it was he who had written the offend-
ing article. After outlining the events
leading up to the case, Traill went on to
say (“His writing style had no fine
graces,” said Archibald. “He hurled
Jovian thunderbolts with a brutal and
unsparing justice”):
The Supreme Tribunal of Justice, having
been seized of these facts, has duly
operated. Two of the principals in this
horrible case have been thrust into jail,
there, by an incarceration during twelve
weary months, to expiate their offence
against the welfare of society.
In a case hingeing upon an intimation
that there were scoundrels who gained a
livelihood by ministering to the orgies of
the vicious, and by assisting to undermine
the innocence of youth and to sap the
principles of adolescence, by presenting
under a pretence of cheerful entertain-
ments an insidious mixture of motion, and
intoxicants, with larrikins as bear-leaders
and prostitutes as leaders of the fashion of
the day, twelve months’ incarceration seems
a light sentence.
But there has been some mistake. The
two offenders now in jail are not charged
with anything of that kind. Their crime
has been merely calling attention to such
things, protesting against them, and utter-
ing a warning to parents and guardians.
The Supreme Tribunal has decided. Not
one of the throng who swore and tore,
and fought, and reeled and raved, is a jot
the worse.
Justice has required of that side —
nothing. But it has seized upon the indi-
viduals who raised the voice of remonstrance
—who cried aloud to rulers, and guardians,
and parents —and has flung them into jail
as their reward.
“Archibald, who was a bachelor,” said
Traill in a 1907 “Lone Hand” article,
“endured his incarceration very philo-
sophically ; but Haynes, who was a mar-
ried man with a family, was more restive.”
A sketch of the pair, however, published
a few weeks after their imprisonment
began, shows Archibald looking very
crestfallen, while Haynes appears at least
quite composed, if not his usual jaunty
self.
While in Darlinghurst Jail the pair con-
tinued their journalistic activities. A
writing-desk was even moved in from
The Bulletin office in Pitt-street for
their benefit. Traill used to send them
packets of literary material to sub-edit,
,iand both wrote a great deal of original
matter for the paper. They contributed
for four issues a joint-article entitled “In
the Jug,” which humorously described
their life in prison.
Except for the fact that their liberty
was circumscribed they did not seem to
have had such a bad time. They were
able to receive foodstuffs, and flowers,
and even entertain visitors at meals. Their
first dinner consisted of a jug of soup
left by an elderly female of austere
appearance. On the handle of the jug was
tied a luggage-label on which was in-
scribed the words “I will pray for you,”
and underneath, “Return the jug.” The
note was signed “Sarah Simpson.”
Their first visitor was George Dibbs,
politician, who came along with Traill to
tell Archibald and Haynes that he was
working on their behalf. Dibbs, who
had been in the debtors’-quarters at
Darlinghurst himself, remarked that the
twelve months he stayed there was the
happiest time he ever spent in his life,
“I used to work hard at carpentering,”
he said. “At my lathe. Why, I made a
boat during my imprisonment that gained
a prize at an Exhibition, and has since
drowned a man.”
The public were sympathetic towards
the two prisoners, considering that the
publication of the Clontarf article had
been of real service to the community.
A series of meetings were held in Sydney
and N.S.W. country towns with the object
of raising the balance of the costs.
Prominent politicians of the time, in-
cluding George Reid, J. P. Abbott, Joe
Mitchell, Billy Teece, Dan O’Connor and
Andrew Ross —some of whom The
Bulletin had roasted in its columns —
addressed many meetings on behalf of
Archibald and Haynes.
One such meeting was convened by the
Mayor of Sydney and was held in the
Temperance Hall. George Dibbs can-
vassed the businessmen of the city with
a subscription-list.
Eventually the money was raised, and
the pair were released, after being in
jail over six weeks. They were welcomed
back to public life at a largely attended
meeting in the city, and were given an
enthusiastic reception.
As Miss Keesing in her article pointed
out, “Traill disliked Harold Grey, while
admitting his ability,” and, despite Grey’s
past misdeeds, engaged him to help on
the editorial side while Archibald and
Haynes were in jail. But Traill soon
tired of the exactions of Grey on the
cash-box. Grey brought in practically no
“copy,” but was drawing advances almost
every day to finance his drinking. Traill
was forced to tell him that if he was
resolved to go on the road to ruin he
could go there without the help of any
more advances.
In retaliation, the always undependable
Grey became intentionally undependable.
He would deliberately withhold his copy
until the last moment, thus adding to
Traill’s anxieties. Finally he absented
himself altogether and, having met some-
one possessed of a little capital, per-
suaded Traill’s publisher to join him and
embarked on yet another of his many
publishing ventures —a weekly that was
to wipe The Bulletin off the map.
Freed from restraint, Grey proved, as
he had proved so many times before, that
he was unfit for the role of running a
newspaper. He and his partner spent a
week in a glorious spree with the money
collected from the newsagents for the
first and last issue, and that was the end
of the opposition to The Bulletin.
So Traill was a happy man when Archi-
bald and Haynes appeared at the office
on the day of their release. In no time
Archibald cleared up the editorial work
that had accumulated, and Haynes threw
himself into the business of chasing
advertisements with renewed zest.
In after years Archibald confessed that
the six weeks he spent in Darlinghurst
Jail were the longest holiday he had ever
had.
W. E. FITZ HENRY.


The pick
of me bunch
smce
mz
(iKlancU*
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSOMAL ITEMS
Stepping down through ill-health, Mr.
Justice Barry leaves vacant three high
posts in Queensland —judge of the
Supreme Court, president of the Arbitra-
tion Court, and chairman of the Sugar
Cane Prices Board. He started from a
country school with one teacher, got a
scholarship to Nudgee College in Bris-
bane, and left Queensland Uni. in 1920- —-
at first to teach school himself, while
studying law. He was admitted in 1928,
developed a wide practice in the
industrial sphere, and 'appeared often
before the Prices Board he subsequently
presided over. Appointed judge and
Arbitration Court president in 1952, he
was sometime associate to Macrossan,
C.J. He’s 54.
• »
Visiting Melbourne for the first time,
American food-technologist and Ful-
bright scholar Professor J. C. Moyer. His
visit coincided with the Better Food
Exhibition at the Exhibition Building,
an edifice which looks like a wedding-
cake covered with white icing and may
have been mistaken by the professor for
a monument to Australian eating-habits.
Anyhow, after looking round the Gargan-
tuan display of foodstuffs of all descrip-
tions, he expressed himself as astounded
that we could eat so much and yet keep
so slim. Compared to the American, he
found the Australian meat-breakfasts
positively staggering, and the three-
course lunch equally amazing; if he
hadn’t seen examples of Australian
womanhood he would have expected
them to weigh 17st. or over.
0 0
Back in Perth after a health trip to the
U.K., David M. Benson, Anzac and
widely known former State-secretary of
the R.S.L. in Westralia. Still hefty, he
started his soldiering in a signals unit on
Gallipoli, and ended it on 4th Div. H.Q.
in France. As State secretary he helped
to steer Westralia’s R.S.L. for 20 years.
He runs an estate-agency,
0 0
Moving-spirit of I.C.I. (A/asia) be-
tween 1929-45 (managing-director, the
co.’s first), and for a dozen years chair-
man of the board, Lennon Raws has
resigned as a director. Born in England,
son of an Adelaide parson, he had his
first job in Australia with Fowler’s,
wholesale grocers in Adelaide. The Aus-
tralian Gold Recovery Co. and Wallaroo
and Moonta mining concerns were sub-
sequent stepping-stones; then 1914 saw
him Melbourne manager of Elder Smith.
Early in War II he had a finger in the pie
at the I.C.I.’s vast new saltfields near
Port Adelaide, and also helped direct the
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation’s
production of Wirraways. He was chair-
man of the Australian Metal Exchange
from 1915 to 1923. 1 One of the most
experienced financiers and commercial
administrators in the country, he rose
Sir Lennon in 1926.
# •
Frank Sinclair, compelled by poor
health to resign the post of Secretary to
the Army, had been in that position since
1941. With 45 years in the Defence
Department, he has carried enormous
burdens in war-time and in the subse-
quent reorganisation of the Army and the
introduction of National Service. He
was awarded the C.B.E. three years ago.
Army Minister Francis expressed the
Government’s appreciation of Sinclair’s
services, adding that one of his outstand-
ing contributions to the Army organisa-
tion had been “the fostering of a spirit of
team-work between the Civil and Service
divisions of the department.” Sinclair’s
successor will be A. D. McKnight, Sydney
law graduate and first-assistant-secretary
of the Prime Minister’s Department. He’s
now abroad with the P.M. for the talks
in London.
0 0
“Pip Tok”: An unsought honor, con-
ferred by the misfortune of war, has been
awarded to Westralia’s Governor, Sir
Charles Gairdner —membership of the
Totally and Permanently Disabled Ser-
vicemen’s Association. A severe leg-
wound in the Kaiser’s war left him with
a permanent limp. At a recent suburban
agricultural show, he had, as fellow-
guest, Hugh Leslie, M.H.R. for the district,
who had served with South Africans in
War I, had in the later scrap lost a leg
in Tobruk, and had even more than that
in common with Sir Charles. It turned
out that both had learnt to knit while in
hospital, and have knitted their own socks
ever since. They were wearing their own
homework at the show.
'9 9
“F.”: Bernard Hoskins, of Concord
(N.S.W-), bought a copy of the first issue
of The Bulletin from a paper-seller in
Boomerang-street, Sydney, and has been
buying it ever since. Born in Melbourne
in 1863, Hoskins was 17 when The
Bulletin began. His father was a
mining speculator who lost his life
chasing for gold in New Britain in 1886.
The son was a contract-drover when
quite young, droving from south-west
Queensland to Wodonga (Vic.). Later
he took up woolclassing, and later still
managed sheep- and cattle-stations in
N. S. Wales and Queensland. His last
job in management was of Wenderadeen,
for Joseph Gill, who when he died left
the property to the Salvation Army.
9 9
Arrived in Australia, new chairman of
directors of Vacuum Oil, Stanley
Lehman, manager of the company’s
interests in the Philippines for the past
two years. A Harvard man, in India
before Manila, he relieves J. D. Jacobs,
gone across to the New York office.
9 9
Here depicted, lately retired Sydney
C. 1.8. chief J. V. Ramus had been mixed
with crime since' in 1919, he joined the
N.S.W. police and quickly made a name
for himself among the sleuthing fraternity
—and those they sleuthed. Earlier
attached to many towns in western
N.S.W., he had his first big break one
Christmas Day at Wagga. His wife
CATCHER
recalls him walking quietly into the house
and asking for a small box and some
cotton-wool. The detective went back
to the river; when he returned the box
held a complete glove of human skin.
The method of identification subsequently
used became standard practice among the
world’s police-forces. Prominently con-
nected also with investigations into the
“Pyjama Girl” case —also of world-wide
interest —Ramus was often commended
from the Bench by judges for concise and
honest presentation of his cases.
Angus Moir has been in insurance all
his working life. First with Queensland
Insurance, rising to manager of branches
in the west of N.S.W-, he shifted to a
British firm, Century Insurance,
manager. There he began his association
with the N.S.W. Co-operative Building
Society, by the friendly means of making
funds available. The other day he
became the society’s secretary, succeeding
Wallace Pooley, lately passed on.
Administering a concern which builds
some 100 houses a year itself, apart from
the many it finances, the new secretary
BUILDER
would like it known that the society
offers a very good investment for small
savers—their money draws five per cent,
interest, can be withdrawn at any
time, and there’s always the house
at the end of it. All three Moir brothers
were in the Second A.I.F. Frank, lately
appointed Bishop of Nelson (N.Z.), was
senior chaplain; Graham, youngest,
sergeant; and Angus, private. When
not interviewing prospective “little capi-
talists” (a most desirable prospect, he
reckons) Angus plays that young man’s
game, bowls —East Roseville club the
venue.
9 9
Three Fulbright scholars have reached
Australia for research-work. Dr. Clarence
M. Johnson will study the responses of
green plants to micronutrients under
conditions of controlled light and tem-
perature at the Waite Research Station
(S.A.). Dr. Harold P. Elmo will look
into the grape-industry, with a view to
improving quality and yield, at the Uni-
versity of Westralia. Dr. Perry R. Stout,
to lecture and research at Adelaide Uni-
versity on the deficiencies of our soils,
will also instruct in special techniques
used in the U.S. in micronutrient ele-
ment investigations. All three are
graduates of the University of California.
9 9
H.M. Canadian cruiser Ontario' is
claimed by the Canberra office of the
High Commissioner for Canada to be one
of the “most travelled ships wearing the
maple-leaf emblem.” That claim could
be widened to include “any ship wearing
the White Ensign.” Since serving in
the War II Mediterranean and Pacific,
the 12-year-old has visited Australia
three times; in 1951 ranged round New
Zealand and South America; into the
Atlantic to escort the then Princess
Elizabeth and Duke on their Canadian
tour; the following year logged another
18,500 miles from Valparaiso to Rio;
and last year put on a further 20,000
miles into the South Pacific. Due to
leave Brisbane on Friday, bound Jervis
Bay (for exercises), then Sydney (crew-
lubrication), she is commanded by
Captain David Walter Groos, D.S.C.,
who was a lad in Milwaukee (where
they brew the beer), but who grew up
in Canada. Ontario is his first big ship—
he had a corvette early in War 11, com-
manded destroyer Restigouche at the
Normandy return (D.S.C.), took destroyer
Crescent to China about the time of
British Amethyst’s epic dash down the
Yangtse Kiang, and temporarily finished
his seagoing in command of the modern-
ised destroyer Sioux. Before heading
Ontario’s nose trans-Pacific this time he
had been Chief of Staff to the Naval
Member of the Canadian Joint Staff.
9 9
Back home in Melbourne, new Air
Member for Personnel, Air-Vice-
Marshal Frederick Scherger, from two
years of commanding the R.A.F. in
Malaya. In 30 years (after graduation
from Duntroon), Scherger had high
fighting commands in War 11, was the first
R.A.A.F. officer to lead both Australian
and American air-forces, and won D.S.O.
for his coverage of the landings at
Aitape. He believes that terrorism is
well in hand in Malaya, with planters
now able to leave their ironmongery at
home when on the job. C.B. came his
way last year for gallant and distinguished
service in Malaya.
9 9
Gone on at Manly (Sydney seaside
suburb), Samuel McCaughey, of the
widely known N.S.W. grazing family,
son of the late Samuel McCaughey and
brother of Roy. The father was best
known in Australia as a benefactor
who left a large slice of his fortune
for public use, but he was known
pretty well the world over in
the sheep-industry as one of the great
moulders of the modern Australian
Merino. Brother Roy could not be
mistaken for other than Australian—
his 6ft.-odd towers at sheep- and cattle-
shows, and he is a breeder to his finger-
tips. He built up one of the world’s
greatest Shorthorn studs at Coonong
(N.S.W.), has done much to help smaller
breeders with less capital, and is one
of the most popular men in the cattle-
industry. Three years back Samuel,
with brother Roy, gave the 24,000-acre
sheep-station Coree (N.S.W.) to the
nation, to be established as a pastoral-
research and -training institute. Coree
is a memorial to Lieut. Samuel
McCaughey and Air-Gunner David
Macpherson McCaughey was Samuel’s
son, Macpherson his nephew; both were
killed in War 11. Samuel was 62 at the
end.
9 9
Into the Silence :
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 66, Henry Edward
Farrier, founder of one of the biggest contracting
concerns in New Zealand. A native of
Wollongong (N.S.W.), he crossed to Christchurch
in 1906, where he pioneered the use of bulldozing
machines in road-making, and discovered a seam
of unusual sand now extensively used in con-
crete-work. More recently he completed the
largest mobile stone-crusher in the Dominion.
In Perth, at 89, Hairy Duncan Pell, goldfields
pioneer and member of the N.S.W. contingent
which went to Khartoum in 1885 during the
Sudan campaign. He had been Kalgoorlie
Race Club judge for many years.
At 67, in Melbourne, J. R. Brennan,
promoter of the professional tennis-team which
includes Frank Sedgman. He collapsed at the
Kooyong Courts during night-play.
In Perth, at 85, Ted Tomlinson, who, in
the early part of the century, when 18-footers
were popular on the Swan, skippered Aeolus
against such rivals as Jack Norris, Chris
Garland, Andy Roche and Billy Donald, each
of whom represented his State at inter-State
yachting-carnivals. His two sons, Les and
Arthur, carry on the family yachting love with
14-footers.
In Sydney, Alice Mary Goddard, in the
Royal North Shore Hospital, of which, in
1898, she became the first matron. Daughter
of Captain William Goddard, master in sail, she
was educated in England and in Ireland, finish-
ing at Loretto Convent, a few miles from
Munich. She returned to Sydney in her
father’s windjammer, and later was for
quarter of a century R.N.S.H.’s matron. Her
interest in the hundreds of nurses she trained
continued to the end.
In London, in the grounds of the National
Institute of Medical Research, where he’d
worked with world-acknowledged distinction,
Sir Edward Mellanby, at 70. Nutrition was his
life-study—in 1918 he discovered vitamin D,
conqueror of rickets in children; more recently
proved that vitamin A influenced the growth
and shape of bones; and in War II was in
charge of a committee probing into the causes
of R.A.F. accidents and the effect of lack of
oxygen on high-altitude pilots. He had been
secretary of the British Medical Research
Council, was a Fellow of the Royal Society,
and an honorary M-D. of Adelaide University.


SHOWING ’EM HOW


ABORIGINAHTIES
CJICKNESS and bushfires almost wiped
out Victoria’s koalas in the
’nineties, and at one time they
were reduced to leading a precari-
ous existence on places like Phillip
Island, where they used to be seen in
the few remaining manna-gums surveying
with interest the motor speed-trials.
Then the Fisheries and Games Depart-
ment took a hand. Now there are over
50 colonies of the little animals Norman
Lindsay has immortalised, and mainly
they’re in areas practically immune from
bushfires. The State now has more of
them than at any time in this century, and
they are steadily on the increase.—“C.B ”
* * * *
“Sackfair”: The young magpie was as
big as his mother; only the harshness of
his croakings and the dirty-white and
grey-black of his first plumage identified
him as a young-’un. A leg-of-mutton bone
left on the grass by the dog was the
attraction: it contained marrow that
could be extracted by a long beak. Ma
was engaged on the job; but every time
she pulled out a beakful the young bloke
squawked till she put it down his greedy
throat. Then something attracted Ma’s
attention a yard or so away. Young-’un
stood hollering for a few minutes, found
it wasn’t doing him any good, so dived
his beak into the aperture of the bone.
He was just as able to extract the marrow
as Mum had been. Spoilt brats aren’t
confined to the human species; but maybe
feathered Ma’s wake up to ’em quicker.
* * * *
“Buma”: Skin of a snake as a weather-
forecaster (B. 5/1/ ’55) isn’t likely to start
meteorologists worrying about their job.
It is a safe bet that salt used in curing is
the hygroscopic agent which indicates
increasing humidity, and equally safe to
bet that simultaneously Mrs. Cocky is
having trouble with domestic-salt and her
“Okay, we've made the Z-bomb — what
CAN We call the next one?”
perm. The American Indians somewhat
gruesomely discovered that “when the
locks turn damp in the scalp-house, surely
it will rain,” but, while increasing mois-
ture in the air is essential to rain, unfor-
tunately rain does not always follow in-
creasing humidity. Which explains why
the numerous little gadgets of the “Darby
and Joan” type are not sure weather-
indicators.
* * * *
“Jacky Jacky”: “Pisces’ ” little N.Z.
fishes with the big names (B. 12/1/’55)
take the count to Tchoongarrabaingair-
andeean, abo. for pelicans, which is the
official name for Sugarbeenan, near
Tweed Heads (N.S.W.). The official name
for the aboriginal Yuriburimanbiwan-
gaimanni on the Mary River (Q.) is
Eurobiramanbongeramani, which is
almost as wonderful.
“Quo Vadis”: I’m
pals with an elf now!
I met him the other day,
playing in the sweet-
buck-patch. He could
leap and run ever so
quickly, walk upside-
down on a leafy ceiling,
move sideways like a
crab, and do all sorts of
trapeze - work. In his
funny football outfit of
black - striped yellow
jersey and yellow socks
with black tops he
brought down the little
insects with flying-
tackles. I thought he
was a tiny inoffensive
jumping-spider, until he
perched on my hand,
and I put the magnify-
ing-glass on him; that’s
when I discovered he
was really an elf.
“J.P.C.”: There are various ways to
fire a steam-loco., and old Crusty’s method
of making his fireman stoke not more
than six shovelfuls at a time was to stick
his foot out and kick the seventh over
the footplate. Bricky, Crusty’s new
mate, fired eight at a time and liked to
keep his footplate clean. Out on the
track Bricky drove the shovel into the
tender for the seventh. Crusty’s foot
shot out, and Bricky’s footplate became
dirty. “Yer interferin’ old !” howled
Bricky, and slammed down the shovel on
Crusty’s foot. Crusty grabbed his foot,
yelling blue-murder. Bricky shovelled
coal like a madman, and everywhere
Crusty looked there were black diamonds.
Bricky kept cm shovelling, and only when
the coal was up around Crusty’s mid-riff
did he heed the cry for mercy. Bricky
doesn’t fire for Crusty any more, but
Crus|y’s foot is now kept firmly planted
on his own side of the cab.
* * * *
“Melbn”: A Victorian police-order to
bum a Cobb and Co.’s coach brought a
storm of protest from
the historically-
minded as fierce as
when it was proposed
to destroy the hitch-
ing-post to which
Adam Lindsay Gor-
don used to attach his
steed when he went to
his favorite pub at
Brighton. Broken-
down and rotting, the
coach was in a lane-
way behind the St.
Kilda - road police -
depot. An old-timer,
Tom Vince, remem-
bers it, in all its
sparkling beauty of
yellow wheels and red
body, when it first
came from the coach-
builders. (Tom’s
father founded the
Western Stage Co. at
Geelong in 1884.) For
many years the coach
ran between Hamil-
ton (Vic.) and Penola
(S.A.); with a 20-
horse team, it carried
Stephenson’s All Eng-
lish cricketers from
Melbourne to Gee-
long. Now that it has
been dragged into the
sunlight everybody wants it—Cobb and
Co. in Queensland and the Australia Day
Council among them. Tom, for his part,
says that if they want to burn it they’ll
have to burn him with it.
* * * *
“Spin”: “Millicent’s” marksman who
can “put a bullet through an enemy at
2000yds.” (B. 29/12/’54), doesn’t exist
outside of “western” novels. There are
rifles which carry that distance, and the
bullet may still have killing-force, but if
it finds its target that’s due to luck, not
to a man’s eyesight. There are too many
factors involved. You can get several
winds from different directions over that
range, and, anyway, the distance has to
be judged to within 50yds., and I’ve
never seen the man who could do that
without a rangefinder, particularly with
“ Wouldn't have him in the Air Force for that reason—
color-blind, you know.”
a spot of haze around. And, again, has
man’s eye developed from “a set of nerve-
endings barely able to distinguish day
from night”? There’s a growing convic-
tion that man hasn’t risen from primeval
ooze entirely along the slow evolutionary
path—he may have appeared suddenly
and fully-fledged. One indication is that
the hirsute parts of the body are not
remnants of an entire hair-covering;
they’re the natural growth of an other-
wise clean-limbed animal. That animal
may have been a “sport” thrown from a
pair of apes, or the writer of Genesis may
have been on sound ground. Some day
we’ll know, because the further man gets
from his beginnings the more likely he is
to track them down.
* * * *
“H.C.S.”: There is a clause in the
agreement signed by shearers (here in
S.A., anyway) which forbids the bringing
of grog on to the job. Yet I have seen
beer turned-on at the cut-out in old-fash-
ioned style by the owner, and left un-
touched by independent shearers with
their own supplies, and eager to get away
quickly to another shed.
* * * *
“Harbel”: In his sixties, and a marvel
for his age, George still earns —and I
mean earns —good money, but he gets
rid of it just as quickly. At the risk of
being thought a butt-in moralist, I sug-
gested: “If I were in your position,
George, I’d bank, say, three-quid a week.
That’d leave you whips to play about
with, and by the time you reached
seventy you’d have well over a thousand
—enough to ensure a happy old age.”
George has his answer: “A man can’t
look ahead,” he said with quiet sincerity,
“or he’d never be happy. Look! Old
Tige here is me best cobber; he’s eight
years old. In seven years’ time he’d be
fifteen —and very few dogs live to that
age. What’s the use of me thinking about
a happy old age when I know that no
matter what I do I won’t have old Tige
with me then?” Kipling might have
put it better with “When you give your
heart to a dog to tear,” but nobody ever
put it more sincerely.
“Villefair”: It’s amazing where a wind-
swept, bird-carried or otherwise chance-
borne seed will take root and develop.
I’ve seen a plant—species unidentifiable
—growing out of a chimney-pot in a
Redfem slum, and a large clump of
lantana flourishing from the broken
chimney-breast of a burnt-out homestead
in Gerringong (N.S.W.). In Moore Park,
outside Sydney Cricket Ground, an
avenue of date-palms have had their
lower fronds lopped off, leaving recesses
like inverted armpits 15ft. up. Into these
recesses the seeds of a common weed
with a long, fleshy leaf must have blown;
now dozens of the plants are growing at
That unnatural elevation. Another ex-
ample is a box-sapling in a paddock at
Menangle, growing in a stump which looks
old enough to have been cut off when
Macarthur fenced the first sheep-pad-
docks a mile or two away, time having
hollowed the butt into a natural flower-
pot.
♦> ❖ ❖
NOTICE: BEES AT WORK
MUST be doin’ well now,” says
-*■ old Cos. “I hear the bees in the
gums along the river ’smomin’. Just
about carryin’ ’em orf.”
I grin and say, “Sure thing, Cos.
Makin’ a pile now.”
But under the lids the hives are empty.
What old Cos mistakes for a honey-flow
is the roar of the pollen-gatherers. The
stronger the hum in the tree-tops the less
honey in the combs, for when the bees
are on honey they sit and suck, and the
tree is fairly quiet. But when pollen-
gathering the bee must cease scraping
the grains from the stamens, take flight
and, in the air, transfer the takings from
forelegs and mandible to the rear legs,
which have in them tiny hollows,
receptacles for the pollen.
Mistress Bee does the job easily. Her
three pairs of legs whirr in a frenzy of
movement, just discernible with the eye.
When the pollen-gatherer returns to the
hive she pokes through the teeming mob
to the cells where the last load was
packed. The bees may be “on” half a
dozen different trees, but the pollens
are never mixed, either in the gathering
or the storage.
When she reaches the cell, the gatherer
rests her head and tail on the cells
adjoining, thus leaving her legs free for
unloading. Then, in slow concentration,
she levers the globules from the hollows,
and immediately they fall she mooches
off.
In a second or two a young bee moves
in and with her head gently kneads the
loose pollen into a solid, air-free mass.
Like comb - building and most other
jobs about the colony, there seems to be
a most casual finish-it-tomorrow attitude,
but between the lot of them every tiny
task is finished-off with marvellous
precision.
Maybe it wasn’t from the meat-
packers of Chicago at all that Henry Ford
got his idea of the conveyor-belt, but
from peeking into a hive of bees.
B-herd.
SUMMER DAY
The whirlwind whines through withered wastes,
The blaze burns brown the blasted hill;
As red-scorched dust beats drowsy droves,
The snake sleeps still.
The grey leaves crack on dead dry limbs
Of gums which sigh on crumbling brinks;
While shadows soothe earth’s gasping clefts,
No creature drinks.
The sap-whorls stain the blistered bark,
And old gnarled roots grasp lead-grey stones.
Though black flies suck the festered grime,
The beetle drones.
In parched clay beds of wasted pools,
The frog lies deep in clinging slime;
Amid dry sand and burning stone,
The lizards climb.
The sun sears late the brazen clouds,
All bleary red and billowing.
The cold stars cling to cooling night,
And magpies sing.
S.A.
G. E. KEARN.


TT’S a long pull to O’Reilly’s on Lam-
A ington Plateau (Q.), and the narrow
road climbs around one mountain-spur
after another, often with so little footing
it has to be propped on stone walls.
Where it traverses a razorback the bus
seemed to be suspended in mid-air, the
nearest land miles away. .The driver,
microphone on chest, interrupted his com-
mentary on scenic beauties to reassure
his somewhat green passengers: “Don’t
be afraid, folk, going along these places.
Just do as I do—shut your eves.” —
“Vega.”
* * * *
“K.A.”: To come in on the distilled-
water debate, I note that some of the
stuff is claimed to be “triple-distilled.”
Having distilled some of the most heavily-
mineralised water of Central Australia,
I still have to learn how multiple-distilla-
tion effects any further purification.
* * * *
“H.E.R.”: The female koel is perfectly
camouflaged (B. 19/1/’55) so that she can
furtively place an egg in a chosen nest
from which the owners are absent
wrathfully pursuing her loud-voiced mate.
The same procedure is followed by all
other parasitic species of cuckoos. At
least one kind of Australian cuckoo —
the pheasant coucal—makes a nest and
hatches its own. eggs. As for the early
settlers adopting the cry of the koel
“cooee,” they most likely borrowed it
from the abos, who had long used the
koel’s cry.
* * *
“Cayman”: The Red Page reviewer
(B. 26/1/’55) who suggests our back-
blocks cowboys might learn horseman-
ship from Dr. Waclaw Korabiewicz’s
account of vacqueiros in the Matto
Grosso might have another look at the
Doctor’s crocodiles. Unless crocodiles
have been introduced to those parts
lately he probably refers to alligators, the
timid and lazy American reptiles which
figure so frequently in films of under-
water derring-do, with human y. alligator
contests in which the big lizards are
inevitably routed. It is just possible that
the good Doctor’s vacqueiros are as
exaggerated as his reptiles; but he may
not be to blame, for there is a recent
tendency for writers to blow up their
alligators with a crocodile’s reputation.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Correction, “Max” (B.
19/1/’55). I didn’t say “a cypress is
not a true cedar but a conifer;
what I did say was “Mlanje-cedar
is not a true cedar; like the Aus-
tralian cypress, it is a conifer.” I accept
the contention that, botanically, “conifer”
is a loose term covering a great number
of species; nevertheless, in the building
trade, “conifer” is regarded as being
synonymous with “pine,” and although
there are dozens of varieties of pine—
Oregon, cypress, hoop, Californian, huon,
etc. —nobody ever talks of cedar-pine.
Mlanje-cedar conforms more to the
general nature of these pines than to
orthodox cedar, but botanists claim it
to be an individual species unlike any
other timber growing in the world today:
a primeval tree that was completely over-
looked in the gradual evolution of all
things botanic.
* *: *
“Bellfield”: As we approached the dam
one of the pigs was rooting in the damp
soil back from the water’s edge, the other
sprawling in the sloppy mud. Suddenly
a pack of mongrel dogs came racing down
the paddock; the rooting pig saw them
and lumbered away with surprising pace,
but the reclining sow woke from her
slumbers to face a semicircle of yapping,
threatening dogs. For a moment she
seemed about to make a fight of it, then,
realising the impossible odds, plunged
around and took to the water. My mate,
owner of the pigs, swore savagely and
raced to the opposite side of the dam,
en route booting two mongs which had
similar ideas. He waded into the muddy
water well over his knees to help the
distressed sow out; and I saw then what
I had often doubted as fact —that pig’s
throat had been laid open by its swim-
ming-action. Only prompt treatment
saved its life.
* * * *
“Kerba”: The tide was out and bait-
hunters were prowling over the rocks
near Port Kembla (N.S.W.). One,
jabbing down crevices with a short, home-
made spear fashioned from a 2ft. length
of fencing-wire, gathered crabs. Another
had a stick to which was lashed an out-
size hook; swept under ledges the hook
impaled small octopuses and dragged
them out. A third gathered cungevoi.
Familiar tactics, all three. But a fourth
chap, a fullblooded aborigine, was doing
something completely strange to me.
Repeatedly he straightened up, appeared
to place something down the neck of his
shirt, then bent to the hunt again. I
“What makes you think I'll forget to lower my undercarriage some day?"
edged towards him: he was catching
crabs with his hands find, nippers and
all, was carrying them —some sizeable
specimens, too —in a manner that left
both hands free. They were scrambling
about against his body as they investi-
gated the prison formed by the junction
of shirt and piece of rope that kept his
trousers up. A rib-tickling business that
I ynyself wouldn’t have found very funny.
* * * *
“Tantallon”: Jim backed his ute into
the shadow of the pub-veranda, leaving
his kelpie to guard it while he was inside.
Came the village’s canine champ., making
nasal inventory of the ute’s rear tyres,
whereupon the outraged kelpie shot over
the side and the stoush was on. Rearing
up to break a hold, the local champ,
knocked the tap of the adjacent milk-cart,
and as the milk began to flow into the
gutter someone poked his head into the
bar and roared for the milk-oh, who
rushed out and sank a boot into the ribs
of the kelpie. A spectator supporting the
bar-door yelled, “Hey, Jim! He’s kickin’
your dorg!” Jim shot out like a bull-
dozer in overdrive, and then the two
fights went on simultaneously. The milk
ran itself out.
* * * *
“Gobo”: In City Park, Launceston,
there’s a large petrified tree-trunk in
three pieces, total length about 16ft. The
butt is about 4ft. in diameter and some-
what flattened, the top section 2ft. and
hollow. It has been there for years, and
no one remembered where it came from
until an old miner told of its discovery
in a mine at Lefroy, in northern Tas-
mania, where gold-bearing reefs were
worked some years ago. The specimen
was found under 300 ft. of solid stone.
TO A CATO OF HOBART TOWN
Joseph, you walked in the green world below
The mountain’s snow-capped crest, and in your
hand
Bore embryos of a softer English snow,
Pink-tinged and delicate. In the strange new
land
Settled at Lenah Valley, out of the town,
Planted a thousand trees and saw them grow.
They called it then, Valley of the Kangaroo,
The dying dark ones. Now the suburbs spread
Where once they hunted, where your apples
grew,
And all your seven sons have long been dead;
And, childless, your great-grandson worked
the last
Green orchard there: the seed you planted too.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.
"BOMB"-DISPOSAL
'T'HE used-car salesman positively purred
A as he approached. His ducoed hair, I
noticed, had a lustre which the car I
was looking at certainly had not known
for at least a couple of decades.
He swept his hand towards the jalopy.
“You are interested in this one?”
It was less a query than a confident
assertion.
“Well, I am rather,” I replied cauti-
ously.
"Well , cheerio , Warder — I'll be seem you."
With a tremendous effort of self-con-
trol he restrained himself from tearing
mto the office and grabbing a contract-
form. Straightening his Windsor-knot,
he gave a little cough as a preliminary
to the calling-upon of all his powers of
persuasion.
t I can se e,” he opened oleaginously,
that you are not one who is blinded by
the meretricious, tricked by the mere
gleam of wax. You obviously recognise
He preferred to walk around his parish
visiting the sick and so on.”
“I notice, however,” I said, “that the
front pew, especially where the driver sat,
is rather worn. And that the very stained
glass window —the reverend gent, pro-
bably referred to it as the windscreen—
is also cracked.”
“Oh, those are very easily repairable,”
the salesman said airily. “Only minor
defects at worst.”
the solid benefits to be gained by invest-
ing in a , model which will still be effici-
ently mobile even after the speedo has
done a couple of tours of duty, and long
after some of the flasher present-day
models have rattled themselves to pieces.
Not, mind you, that this car has had
that much use.”
“No?” I interpolated.
“Definitely not!” he declared. “As a
matter of fact, it belonged to a clergy-
man, who used it only on rare occasions.
“In keeping with its sacerdotal owner-
ship,” I went on, “the fabric hood seems
to have become very holey.”
He looked at me here with a touch of
asperity.
“However,” I pursued, “it is always
reassuring to hear that a car has been
in the hands of only one owner-driver,
and especially one who was most careful
in his handling of it.”
He seemed mollified at that. “Oh,” he
said eagerly, “really with loving care.”
“Never did over twenty-five, I
suppose?”
“Never!”
“Had it lubricated religiously every
five-hundred miles?”
“That’s right.”
“Oil changed every thousand?”
“Yes.”
“Always kept it under cover, away from
the elements?”
“Yes.”
“In the vestry?”
“Yes —No! Look here”
“Keep your hair on!” I said. “I’m
entitled to know, surely, all particulars
as to the previous owner’s ways with it.
Tell me, did he ever overload ?”
The salesman looked at me coldly.
“He certainly did not!” he exclaimed.
“He was a strict t.-t. Why, he wouldn’t
even allow them to play gin-rummy in the
sewing-guild, and when he accepted the
incumbency he got rid of the verger be-
cause his name was Beer!”
“Forget it!” I said. “By the way, what
did you say his name was?”
The salesman seemed slightly discon-
certed, but only for an instant. “The
Reverend Wilfred Goodladd,” he said,
smoothly, “of St. Bernard’s.”
“I think I’ve heard of him,” I replied.
“I believe he is the president of the Snow-
Travellers’ Aid Society and has the repu-
tation of being a particularly fine racon-
teur of shaggy-dog stories. You are posi-
tive he never neglected the engine?”
“He was really a crank on the engine,”
the salesman said enthusiastically.
“And no doubt used one on it exten- i
sively,” I observed.
The salesman ignored the remark,
i “Why,” he said, “many’s the time I’ve
seen him, still in his surplice, polishing his
tappets and spraying the differential with
anti-rust fluid. He just couldn’t wait to
get into his old clothes, so keen was he
to keep it in apple-pie order.”
“His wife never drive it?” I asked
anxiously.
“The Reverend Wilfred Goodladd is a
bachelor,” he replied swiftly. “And,”
he added, “he was a most careful driver.
Never involved in a collision —an im-
portant thing, that. If you don’t know the
car you’re buying you might get one with
a twisted chassis, with a consequent wear-
ing-out of tyres thousands of miles before
they should be.”
I opened one of the doors. There was
something amber-colored sticking out of
one of the door-pockets of the old ruin.
I hoisted out the empty beer-bottle.
“The Reverend Wilfred,” I said softly,
“seems to have found it necessary at
times to ingest a little fortitude when
either going to or coming from the
delivery of his sermons.”
A look of consernation flashed across
the salesman’s face, and then was gone.
“Oh,” he said easily, “Mr. Goodladd is
a grand old boy, but he has one eccen-
tricity—he can never pass an empty beer-
bottle on the roadside. He hoarded them
up—used ’em to hold the used-oil from
his sump. You know how it is—you
can’t pour it over your garden or in the
gutter. But he did look after this car just
as if it was a baby.”
“Well,” I said, “I myself never buy a
car that hasn’t been bottle-fed. He seems
to have looked after it well enough.”
“Well, then,” he said eagerly, “the
deposit is only”
“Who’s talking about a deposit, or a
sale?” I asked.
“But you said you were interested in
it!” he protested.
“So I am, naturally,” I rejoined, “seeing
that it was I who sold it to your boss. I
just dropped in, curious to see if any mug
had bought it. Good-morning.”
BO.


Can you detect
a ‘classic’?
• *
belcs
100% SCOTCH WHISK' S
PUTIUED AHO Blt»OI»
‘ IN SCOTLAHO
ti^ d
D| STILLERS««™SCO
SCDTI>
uW
One of life’s little joys lies
in making your own dis-
coveries. Quietly finding
the best. Many a man has
been delighted to come
across Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky. It has a magic
subtlety that only therare,
the very best whiskies can
achieve. You have only
to open a bottle to appre-
ciate its classic bouquet
and flavour.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELLS
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825.
Business, Rollery, Etc
The Strain on Credit
COOMBS, governor of
the Commonwealth Bank,
has said that inflation will follow
if Australia does not slow down
its rate of development. Sir
Alexander Fitzgerald, Professor
of Accounting at Melbourne
University, has agreed with him
that “credit is getting strained,”
adding that “unless there is a
drop in the demand, and a
slowing-down of development,
inflation must come.”
In both cases it is apparently
assumed that much greater pro-
ductivity cannot be expected
from each wage-earner each
week. If a better effort per week
were to come from all those
being paid wages and salaries, it
is obvious that more develop-
ment would be possible from the
same amount of expenditure,
and that the strain on credit and
on the manpower resources of
the country would not be so
severe.
Over the past three years there
has been a considerable improve-
ment in the man-hour output in
most factories. But we have
done little more than catch up
with the drop in weekly produc-
tion that followed introduction
of the 40-hour week in 1948.
In the transport industries it has
not been possible to overcome
the handicap which the 40-hour
week imposed, and regulation of
motor - transport by State
authorities has prevented
acceleration of service by the
more flexible types of transport.
In plain fact, after World
War 11, when there was so much
delayed civil work and construc-
tion to be done, the effort of the
average citizen slowed down, and
this slowing-down was given
legal approval with the intro-
duction of the 40-hour week in
1948. Ever since then Australia,
with many urgent development-
schemes waiting to be carried
out, has been doing its work at
a comparatively loafing rate, and
necessary national works have
fallen gravely into arrears. One
of the worst examples of this can
,be seen in the State railways.
N. S. Wales, for instance, has
great difficulty even in keeping
in decent repair the capital assets
which previous generations had
to provide in their entirety.
In the capital cities there is a
great lag in new building. This
“ Overdrawn? Goodness! I suppose that means a lot of
red-tape before I can cash this cheque ?”
is partly the result of landlord-
and-tenant regulations, but more
the consequence of the difficulty
in getting suitable manpower and
materials at a reasonable cost.
Even Government departments,
which usually are not fussy about
the cost of things, have been in
the habit, over the past 15 years,
of taking over existing com-
mercial buildings rather than
putting up new public buildings.
In Sydney new city buildings
erected in the last 15 years
number less than half a dozen.
When one looks at the great
road and railway networks that
crisscross the £oastal belt of Aus-
tralia—nearly all the result of
pre-war effort —one wonders
what has happened to the con-
structive energies of Australia
today. Few new roads are being
constructed, few bridges, few
new miles of railway. The
Snowy Mountains Scheme
cannot he regarded as being the
equivalent of all this pre-war
effort. The fact seems to be
that almost every Australian,
working fewer hours a week than
before the war, is today engaged
mostly in improving the
immediate standard of living of
himself and his fellows, and dis-
regarding the condition of the
national assets he has inherited,
while doing very little about
creating new ones for the present
and coming generations.
There are, of course, excep-
tions to any general observation ;
but it is undeniable that Aus-
tralia is not diverting enough of
its effort towards creating new
essential public works and work-
ing assets for private enterprise.
But there has been a tremendous
expansion in the output of
“family” requirements of a
durable nature motor-cars,
refrigerators, furniture, etc.
Homebuilding itself is unable to
keep pace with demand, and is
generally very costly.
An influx of migrants who are
not immediately absorbed into
essential industries has made the
position more difficult. They
have imposed a strain on
material and manpower resources
where that strain is already
greatest. But if there has been
a reasonable thoughtful selection
of the type of migrant who has
been brought to Australia, this
part of the problem should
eventually sort itself out. The
most disturbing element is the
prospect of overall underproduc-
tion remaining with us.
Short of a miracle, it does not
seem possible for Australia to
maintain its position with the
rest of the world while the 40-
hour week remains with us. We
were, comparatively, too back-
ward when it was introduced.
No monetary manipulation can
overcome a problem that
basically is represented by low
output per man per working-
week. A miracle might dccur
in the shape of more diligent
work during the 40 hours; but
there are limits there, even if it
is obvious that some industries
might easily raise their weekly
output by as much as 10 p.c.
simply by the elimination of
slackness and time-wasting
among employees.
With a higher output from
each Australian worker, most of
the present credit and materials
problems would fade away,
especially if the extra output
went largely into tooling-up
industry on a higher level of
efficiency. As things stand at
present, there is no questioning
the fact that Australia is faced
with inflationary dangers if
output does not rise to meet
the cost of the wage-margins
increases and the needs of
essential development.
w , n;i
vvestlana Ull
„ 7 Lit l tle J ti ?!f been lost
Westland Oil, Ltd., m getting on
with drilling at Warbreccan
(Q.). Soon after spudding-in the
drill was at 2214 ft. (on February
2), and the rate of progress was
400 ft. a day.
a report from the drill-site
said that the geological strata
were proving exactly as
described in the prospectus.
Warbreccan is one of the
farthest-west points in Queens-
land where petroliferous gas has
been encountered in water-
bores. It is not such a closely
drilled locality as around Long-
reach and Roma, and there are
comparatively few water-bores
in the area.
Warbreccan is 110 miles
south-west of Longreach. A
bore put down in 1898 passed
out of the Cretaceous series at
3290 ft., out of the Jurassic at
3572 ft., and then down to 4008 ft.
appeared to be in Permian.
Petroliferous gas samples
(ethane 5.5 p.c.) were taken
from this old bore in 1928 —
30 years after it was drilled.
In Westland’s permit-area
closer in to Longreach traces of
oil and wax have been
encountered in bores at various
depths, but nothing of a com-
mercial nature has yet been
found in Queensland.
In a summary of the prospects
of finding oil in Queensland, “The
Queensland Government Mining
Journal” in October, 1952, said
that “it is not intended that the
[oil, wax and gas] occurrences
should all be considered indica-
tion of near-by accumulation,
but it is contended that they
prove the sediments capable of
generating petroleum.”
Westland has contracted to
have a series of holes drilled
on its Queensland area. It has
also applied for a permit to
prospect for oil in Papua.
Linoleum Holdings
Last sale of the shares in
Linoleum Holdings, Ltd., was
at 28s. 6d. No buyers or sellers
are at present in evidence; but
at under 30s. the scrip should be
attractive buying. There are
106,666 £1 ords. issued by Lino
Holdings, and it owns an equal
number of shares in Michael
Nairn and Co, (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.,
the largest makers of lino, in
the Commonwealth. The Nairn
co. has a paid capital of £500,000,
so that Lino Holdings’ interest
is a little over a fifth.
Michael Nairn and Co. (Aust.)
has recently extended its Auburn
(N.S.W.) works, and should be
able to cope with any demand.
It is conservative in its div.-
policy, but in respect of the term
to January 31, 1955, Lino Hold-
ings made a distribution of
9f p.c. Accounts for the period
are not yet to hand.
Faith in the
Future
One of the ways I know of expressing Faith
in Australia’s future is by ensuring the safety of
its roads.
In the year to last June there were 86,639 road
accidents in this country: 1898 people were killed,
44,085 injured.
To appreciate the tragedy of this, let us
assume that a whole town with a population of
nearly 2000 was obliterated in some explosive
catastrophe, and that for every one who died in
that town, 22 were injured in the surrounding
district from effects of the blast.
It would shock the nation, and be talked
about for years.
And yet Australia is losing that number by
attrition in a year on its roads, and it is passed off
as incidental to the hazards of living.
Now, this is a cost in priceless life which
Australia cannot afford. It will rise still further
unless we are determined to do all in our power to
minimise it.
More roads, and better roads, will have to be
built. More vehicles will be using them—in New
South Wales alone registrations have gone up by
20 per cent, in the last three years, and the number
of registered drivers by slightly more than that
again.
How can we keep the accidents in check?
The first call is for controlled speed and a
refusal to take risks, added to which are courtesy
and consideration. That is a matter for the
individual driver.
The next line of protection is in strict enforce-
ment of the law, and in suitable punishment for
the reckless.
I love roads, and I am devoted to motoring:
but I love still more the thought that an Australian
life is spared to enjoy our cherished standards, and
to contribute to the economy that provides them.
So we should ask ourselves when we take the
road: “Am I going to drive with care —or am I
going to help wipe a town off the face of Australia?”
H. Hastings Deening.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
X-
JACKSOIH $
OSUIJJYAv
- rjxvm. «,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
£2
m
an A.N.Z. Bank
cheque account
is easier for your
wife... i
In the past lew years
you may have spent a
good deal of money
buying labour - saving
appliances for your
wife. But have you
thought of giving her the convenience of a
cheque account at A.N.Z. Bank?
Work out the cost of drawing 50 or 60
cheques a year, and balance this cost against
the effort and expense of paying in cash.
Consider how much easier household budget-
ing would be with A.N.Z. Bank statements
and cheque butts to show exactly where her
money goes. Think about the added confi-
dence that she would have if there were no
occasion for concern about large sums of
money left at home or carried in her handbag.
Why not make arrangements with the
Manager of the branch of A.N.Z. Bank
nearest your home to-day?
A*N*Z
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
Over 800 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea,
and in London. Agents throughout the World.
•ANZ. 41.1325'
Memory for details
Queensland, August 30, 1954.
I have made definite progress. I
am much more confident about my
memory for details, and I observe
more closely and accurately.—Q.A.
1340, Medical Practitioner.
Does not run away
West Aust., Jan. 19, 1955.
I find that, instead of running away,
I am now able to face my problems
and shortcomings, and the Pelman
lessons may invariably be depended
upon for assistance. —W.R. 2014,
Domestic Duties.
Climbing back
N.S.W., August 24, 1954
I have derived the outstanding,
benefit of being able to climb surely
back to the position from which I
fell due to a nervous breakdown.
Pelmanism has given me a greater
confidence in being able to overcome
scientifically the fears that beset me
previously.—N.O. 767, Audit Clerk.
Inferiority overcome
Qld., November 29, 1954.
I have made a lot of progress
toward overcoming inferiority trouble.
. . . my ability and competence have
increased considerably.—Q.G., 1918,
Asst. Station Master.
A completely new life
S. Aust., November 30, 1954
I learned that one does not need
to labour under the frustrating, en-
feebling domination of inferiority-
consciousness, but that with the right
approach and proper training this
disability can be banished and one
can live a completely new life. That
was my discovery when I studied
the Pelman Course and applied its
principles to my life.—S.B., 3067,
Minister of Religion.
Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute:. London.
Establ. Melbourne 1907.
The Melbourne Branch has en-
rolled over 85,000 men and women
in Australia and New Zealand.
Services Approval
Members of the Per-
manent Forces are asked
to inquire about Pelman-
ism, which is approved as
I. E b c“c IC course by “ e
PELMANISM
is scientific training
of mind, memory
and personality
Pelmanism is a training by means of which the powers
of men and women are extended fully in their occupations,
social life and peculiar interests. It is adult education in a
most agreeable, practical and effective form.
The effects of Pelmanism are quick and permanent. In
seeking the development of the following qualities, habits are
formed which are immediately useful and which persist and
strengthen:—
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Interest-Power Social Ease
and a thoroughly dependable memory
The Exercises are pleasant, and each has its special
purpose. Most of them are related to the daily life and
activities of the pupil.
“THE EFFICIENT MIND” describes, in detail, Tbe Pelman Course.
Copies are posted free on application to The Pelman Institute, 3
Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. All inquiries are
regarded as confidential. The Institute has no outside representatives.
New Zealand Inquirers
The Pelrnan Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrange-
ments to meet the financial
restrictions and enable resi-
dents of New Zealand to
enrol for the Pelrnan Course
of Training without delay.
Write in the first instance
to the Pelrnan Institute,
Melbourne.
TO THE PELMAN INSTITUTE
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders St.,
Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a
copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
266
Capital-erosion & Taxation
The Commonwealth Treasury
has shown little interest so far
in the problem of capital-erosion
in relation to annual deprecia-
tion allowances for income-tax
purposes. Yet, because of the
great inflation in the replace-
ment-cost of working-assets in
a business, the sums which the
Taxation Department allows to
be deducted, tax-free, from
profits and set aside for asset-
replacement are never enough to
replace the asset when eventually
it is worn-out. It would cost
roughly three to four times the
price of a machine bought in
1939 to replace it in 1955.
In the course of his Budget
speech in October, 1954, the
Federal Treasurer mentioned the
range of submissions which he
had received upon the subject of
depreciation. In the sa.me speech
he announced the appointment
of a special committee to report
on the subject.
The submissions received up
to the time the Treasurer made
his speech appear to have
included a good deal under the
headings of investment-
allowances and capital-erosion.
But the submissions which the
special committee will consider
and report upon will exclude
these items. Accountancy
authorities believe this to be so
because, despite the breadth of
the ground covered by his pre-
amble to the announcement, the
Treasurer did not leave scope
for the inclusion of these
subjects, and the terms of refer-
ence given to the committee like-
wise make no such provision.
It is known that many of the
preliminary submissions made
in writing to the committee give
some prominence to both invest-
ment-allowances and the theory
of capital-erosion. Those who
prepared these submissions
either failed to read the terms
of reference with sufficient care
or, having so read them, still
decided to back themselves to
prevail upon the committee to
listen to what they had to say.
It seems probable that these
two features of the depreciation
problem are of more interest to
company taxpayers and of more
fundamental importance to the
welfare of the community at
large than are the matters that
fall within the limits of the
committee’s instructions. It is
surprising that the Government
did not throw the whole subject
open to the investigation of the
committee.
A case-study recently com-
pleted (by some members of the
Australian Chartered
Accountants Research Society)
of a public company by itself is
a telling illustration of the gross
inequities which can occur when,
in periods of inflation, old £s
are matched against new £s to
determine profit without any
regard to the difference between
the real values of the old and
the new. For 1952, that com-
pany’s tax was equal to 135 p.c.
of its real profit. For 1953 it
was 249 p.c. Taxable income
was computed according to the
standards of traditional
accountancy, but most
accountants throughout the
world who have given attention
to the subject admit that those
standards fly in the face of
economic commonsense, tax as
income a lot of moneys that are
really capital, aggravate both
booms and depressions, and
generally add confusion and
misunderstanding to the handling
of problems which, in any event,
would be difficult enough.
There is perhaps one direction
in which the principle of allow-
ing expenses to be stated in the
same current £s as are used for
income will have to be conceded
by the taxation committee. This
is with regard to buildings.
It would appear difficult for
the committee to resist the
validity of the claim that depre-
ciation should hereafter be
allowed on buildings. It can be
accepted that the committee will
not recommend that the whole
of the original cost of buildings
acquired 50 or 100 years ago
should now be allowed as a tax-
deduction spread over the
remaining 50 or five years of
their lives. Depreciation will
doubtless be allowed only on a
proportion of the value remain-
ing to be exhausted. If an
attempt were made to treat that
value as being a proportion of
original cost, it would be found
that, in many cases, the cost
could not be ascertained. More-
over, the attempt to allow against
income earned in £s of 1955
purchasing-power a deduction
expressed in £s having a
purchasing-power from two to
five times greater would surely
strike even the dullest and most
inelastic as something quite
unreal, if not completely stupid.
The claim by the capital-
erosionists that depreciation
today on plant bought 10 years
ago should be computed in
current £s might not make any
severe impact on the unsophisti-
cated and sluggish. The validity
of their claim that depreciation
today on buildings bought 80
years ago should be computed
in current £s is, however, likely to
hit somewhat harder, as the dis-
parity between the old and
current £s is so much greater for
80 years than for 10. It might
well be, therefore, that, if the
committee brings down a recom-
mendation that depreciation of
buildings be allowed as a tax-
deduction, it will have to recom-
mend a current value and not
residual cost as the base for
computation of the allowance.
There, for the first time in Aus-
tralia, we would have tax-laws
sanctioning a departure from
historical-cost limits.
Commonwealth Year-book
The best book-value in Aus-
tralia continues to be the Year
Book of the Commonwealth of
Australia, the 1954 edition of
which is now available. Of 1306
pages, it costs only 10s. —post-
free from the Government
Printer, Canberra. The mass
of information, in articles and
statistics, given in the Year Book
is really astonishing, and more
important subjects are illustrated
with maps and graphs.
This year the Commonwealth
Constitution Act has been
omitted from the volume in
order to make room for other
information, but those people
in possession of the'l9s3 issue
are reminded that there have
been no changes in the Consti-
tution since that volume was
printed.
Building Activity
In the nine years since the
war about 509,000 dwellings
have been built in Australia,
and of these, 237,000 (47 p.c.)
have been completed in the
three years to June 30, 1954.
Notwithstanding the setback to
houses commenced in 1952-53,
following the credit-restriction
period, completions kept steady
at around 20,000 per quarter
until the March quarter of 1954,
when there was a drop to 17,159.
In the June quarter of last year
there was a recovery to 19,254.
In 1953-54 total completions
were 3.5 p.c. lower than in the
preceding year at 77,086 houses
and flats (against 79,957).
Owner - builders completed
29,000 (37.5 p.c.) of all dwellings
built last year.
Commercial and industrial
building activity has shown a
spectacular increase since early
in 1953. The value of non-
residential buildings completed
increased from £39 million in
1951- to £66 million in 1952-
53 and £79 million in 1953-54.
In all, new buildings valued at
£277 million were erected in
1953-54, 5 p.c. higher than in
1952-
The great increase in non-
residential construction that has
occurred since early in 1953
has produced stresses in the
supply of building materials and
the labor force, and this has
tended to make conditions harder
in the homebuilding trade.
Record output of building
materials has not kept pace with
all demands. Iron and steel
products are in short supply,
bricks are a problem in many
States, and cement is not
always readily available. These
shortages tend t° add to build-
ing costs, even though output per
man employed in the trade has
risen since 1951.
Labor engaged in new-build-
ing activity dropped from about
126,000 in September, 1951, to
99,000 in March, 1953. The
total in June this year had
recovered to 107,800. This
labor force, smaller than in
1951, is nevertheless‘handling a
greater amount of overall build-
ing, and its higher man-hour
output has been an important
factor in keeping building costs
stable. But if greater demands
are made on the supply of labor
and materials available the
Division of Industrial Develop-
ment, Canberra, expects an
upswing in building costs during
1954-55.


®
Efe*i
Ei-r.
33-39 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
ORANGE and
TAM WORTH
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £71,000,000
YOUR WILL is first and foremost a business matter
Will is probably the most important document that you will
ever sign. Failure to treat it as a business matter of the highest
importance may prove costly to your family.
The best procedure is to discuss your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited. The Company has more than 65
years experience in Estate administration and is well qualified to guide
you in your planning.
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by a Solicitor.
This will involve the appointment of an Executor and Trustee. If you
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as sole Executor —or jointly
with a relative or friend —you will be following the lead of many of
our wisest and most successful citizens.
The services Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has to offer, and
the charges, are set out in the Company’s helpful and informative booklet,
“Your Executor and Trustee.’’ ’Phone 8.0377_ or, write for a copy to-day.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
'THE high reputation H.J.’s scrip enjoys
A in the market —it is one of the “blue-
chip” stocks —rests mainly upon the long
and pleasing performance of the now-
-45-year-old group as a profit-earner and
dividend-payer, and upon its strength,
financial and otherwise. Shareholders
received divs. averaging 10.8 p.c.
(sweetened with £455,492 of bonus-scrip
in 1927) during the first 20 years, followed
by an average of 7.5 p.c. for the next
half-dozen slump years, and then a wink
over 10 p.c. for the 19 years to the close
of last accounts. And the £2,115,000 of
share-capital was then entrenched behind
£4,161,224 of visible reserves.
The parent, or holding co., controls a
chain of 17 major jam-making and fruit-
preserving factories, and is interested in
a number of auxiliary concerns, scattered
throughout Australia, New Zealand and
South Africa. The surprising feature of
the figures over the last couple of years
is the remarkable growth in net earnings,
despite collapse of the Australian export
market (mainly to U.K.) for jams, due
chiefly to the price-factor, in which high
and rising wages-rates and the cost of
sugar figure prominently. The loss of
turnover in this respect—cushioned
slightly by expanding local consump-
tion—has been more than offset by the
growth of exports (again mainly to U.K.)
of canned fruits. Also the co.’s South
African factories, which operate on a
much lower sugar- and wage-cost basis,
have suffered less in the U.K. jam market
than their Australian contemporaries.
Another factor which contributed to the
spring in net earnings in 1953 was a
substantial overall reduction of conserva-
tively valued stocks.
Here is a comparison of net trading
results, etc., for the whole group:
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
1950.. 438,061 10 p.c. = 172,500 265,561 2,942,202
Unexplained reductions, £260,082 .. 2,682,120
1951.. 438,895 10 p.c. = 180,000 258,895 2,941,015
Unexplained reductions, £1243 .. 2,939,772
1952.. 342,977 10 p.e. = 180,000 162,977 3,102,749
Unexplained additions, £14,495 .. 3,117,244
1953.. 549,430 10 p.c. = 203,625 345,805 3,463,049
Unexplained reduction, £6385 .. 3,456,664
Add contingencies reserve, £169,200 3,625,864
1954.. 740,860 10 p.c. = 211,500 535,360 4,161,224
•After deducting intangibles (now £50,935).
The canned-fruit section was wholly
responsible for the improvement of
£197,430 in last term’s profit. For the
year to June 30, 1954, the value of Aus-
tralian exports fell by over 43 p.c. in the
case of jams, but rose by more than 52
p.c. in respect of canned-fruits. Since
the increase in volume of the entire
canned-fruit pack was 33 p.c., selling-
prices were obviously satisfactory. Also
labor- and sugar-costs were relatively
stable, and there was a small drop in
the price of tinplate.
Profits claimed increased by £120,716
from Australian and by £76,714 from
ex-Australian sources:
Profit— 1951. 1952. 1953. 1954.
Australian .. £231,418 £156,981 £264,700 £385,416
Ex-Australian 207,477 185,996 284,780 361,444
Total . . £438,895 £342,977 £549,430 £746,860
The year’s Australian and ex-Australian
profits were equal to 18.2 p.c. and 17.1
p.c. respectively on capital, making 35.3
p.c. in all as against 26.9, 19, 24.3 and
29.1 p.c. back to 1950. Moreover, the
£746,860 of profit was written after
setting aside out of the year’s earnings
£132,000 for contingencies, to which a
further £37,200 was added from some-
where, making a total of £169,200, which
has been added to reserves in the first
table. The allowance for depreciation
was £186,880 (up £23,575), and an un-
stated amount was provided for taxation
—the tax reserve (£1,137,014) increased
by £271,266. Obviously the profit claimed
was conservatively stated.
The co.’s appeal to the High Court
against the taxgatherer’s refusal to accept
the conservative figure at which stocks
have been valued in the books failed on
technical grounds. In the course of
judgment the court said that, “as a matter
of business discretion was wise manage-
ment, the policy of stock-valuation
adopted by the co. has been unexception-
able.” The additional tax involved has
been either provided for or paid, the
chairman says.
The already comfortable financial
position was markedly strengthened:
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,800,000 £2,115,000 £2,115,000
Reserves .. . . 3,153,684 3,513,984 4,212,159
Outside interests.. 77,108 87,862 102,226
Suspense account.. 95,107 109,118 89,144
Creditors, etc. .. 1,754,544 875,891 875,878
Tax reserve .. 649,129 865,748 1,137,014
Final divs. .. 135,000 158,625 158,626
£7,664,572 £7,726,228 £8,690,046
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,417,956 1,618,079 1,558,474
Plant, etc. .. 1,111,970 1,144,507 1,159,421
Stocks .. .. 3,148,285 2,379,652 2,404,200
Debtors .. .. 1,665,081 1,755,086 1,680,566
Shares .. .. 231,058 273,341 335,923
Cash, etc... .. 39,287 604,628 1,500,527
Intangibles .. 50,935 60,935 50,935
£7,664,572 £7,726,228 £8,690,046
The year’s growth in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£3,660,555) was £657,230.
The holding of Government securities
(£544,203) increased by £408,639 and of
cash (£956,324) by £487,260.
As for the current term, the decline
in Australian production of jam has been
arrested. Canned fruit, after 15 years of
Government bulk-buying in the U.K., is
to return to a trader-to-trader basis for
the 1955 season. Much will depend upon
the quantity of American canned-fruit
allowed into the U.K. market.
At 525. (495. a year ago) the f.-p. £1
shares return 3.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks for 5.7
p.c. on his money counts on a 15 p.c.
distribution, which was more than twice
covered by last term’s declared profit.
Net tangible cover is 595. 4d.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
A FTER falling during the war, Aus-
tralian meat-production has since
exceeded the immediate pre-war level,
thanks to the marked increase in home-
consumption, which has resulted in a
decline in exports. To meet the growing
demand the co. made substantial addi-
tions and improvements to plant, etc.,
especially at Ross River (Townsville),
where a new freezing-block came into
operation in 1950, and more attention
was given to markets in the southern
States, from which the co. has now with-
drawn because keen competition made
operations unprofitable. A small sub-
sidiary looks after the can-making section
of the undertaking, and a substantial
share-interest is held in the prosperous
Singapore Cold Storage Co., which
operates at Singapore.
Owing to the struggle against fluctuat-
ing seasonal influences, steadily rising
costs, turbulent industrial conditions and
erratic pre-war behavior of demand and
prices in the export market, the co. has
never been able to squeeze much profit
out of the business. The board is tight-
lipped about output, sales, etc.; but
seasonal conditions and other difficulties
resulted in a trading loss in 1951 ('first
thing of its kind for 20 years), and again
for the 12 months to November 30, 1954:
To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
1950.. 36,806 7 p.c. = 34,380 2,420 64,266
1951 37 416 Nil “ 26,850
From inner reserves, £37,416 •• 64,266
Profit•
1952 40 526 7 p.c. = 34,886 6,140 70,406
1953. .' 32,029 5 ~ >' 24 > 662 -MJ
Investment reserve appears, £219,914 297,787
Contingency reserve appears, £174,583 472,370
1954.. 49J56 Nil 423,214
•After deducting intangibles, £lOOO.
Thus for the second time since 1931
shareholders were passed by. For the 15
years to 1950 they received regular
annual distributions averaging 6 p.c., and
for the four years since an average of 3
p.c. Last term £22,306 (down £7021)
was received in dividends, so the loss
on account of the meatworks was £71,462
as against a profit of £2702 for the
previous year.
Because of a dry spell in the nor’-west
of the State, cattle didn’t kill up to esti-
mated weights on which most of the
purchases were made last term, and
higher grading-standards were imposed,
thus substantially reducing the produc-
tion of first-quality frozen beef for export.
According to Government statistics the
output of canned meat remained on an
even keel. A “further considerable loss”
occurred as the result of industrial unrest
on the waterfront and go-slow tactics at
the works —the season’s operations at
Ross River ceased on September 20,
1954.
A contingency reserve of £174,583,
previously lumped with sundry creditors,
etc., is now shown separately, and an
investment reserve of £219,914 has
appeared from an unstated source, which
may have some connection with the
shareholding in the Singapore co., previ-
ously included with freeholds and plant
but now shown separately at £506,187 —
market-value of the holding at balanc-
ing-date was put at £589,590. These
book-adjustments will not affect earning-
power one way or the other.
Owing to changes in presentation of
the accounts, the 1953 and 1954 balance-
sheet figures are not comparable for all
items:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £491,232 £491,232 £491,232
Reserves .. .. 71,406 78,873 424,214
Overdraft.. .. 649,690 225,775 636,671
Creditors, etc.* .. 420,520 555,892 213,177
Final div. .. 34,386 24,562
£1,667,234 £1,376,334 £1,765,294
Freeholds, plant, "| f 595,092
etc. .. j- 812,080 857,162 -i
Shares other cos. J ( 512,250
SWes subsid. . . 75,000 75,000 75,000
Stock .. .. 460,364 186,233 ? , 01 onQ
Stores .. .. 141,683 86,373 J 4al,aua
Debtors . . . . 177,107 170,566 90,043
Intangibles .. 1,000 1,000 1,000
£1,667,234 £1,376,334 £1,765,294
* Includes provision for taxation and staff fund.
Of the reduction of £342,715 in credi-
tors, etc., £174,583 was due to disclosure
of the contingency reserve, and of the
growth of £250,180 in combined figures
for freeholds, plant and shares in other
cos., £219,914 appears to be on account
of the investment reserve already
referred to. To meet the differences in
these two items and carry an extra
£219,303 of stocks, etc., the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £410,896. When the
books closed outside liabilities exceeded
more-or-less liquids (excluding share-
holdings) by £267,896.
As for the current term, rains in the
northern cattle areas have brightened the
immediate seasonal outlook, and U.K.
prices for beef have strengthened
slightly since cessation of Government
bulk-buying and trader-to-trader opera-
tions were resumed on October 1, 1954. If
the Smithfield (Eng.) annual average
wholesale price for beef falls below the
floor-price (fixed by annual negotiation)
under the 15-year meat agreement, the
U.K. Government is to make a deficiency
payment to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. To what extent, if any, Australian
growers and operators are likely to
benefit in such an event is obscure at
the moment.
The market sums up the risks in the
trade generally by pricing the co.’s f.-p.
15s. shares at Bs. 2d. as against 13s. 9d.
a year ago. At Bs. 2d. the return would
be 7.4 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is 275. lid.
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd. (Geelong)
CJHAREHOLDERS can thank the post-
war boom in the wool trade for
transformation of this now 42-year-old
woolbroking, pastoral-finance and stock-
and-station and other agency business
from a more-or-less static undertaking,
earning moderate profits, into a pros-
perous and expanding concern. The
average rate of dividend, which moved
up from 2 p.c. for the six years to 1936
to 5.1 p.c. for the next 11 years, shot
up to 15.3 p.c. for the seven flush years to
June 30, 1954. And paid capital, steady
at £300,000 since 1930, was raised to
£390,000 in 1950 by the issue of 90,000
new £1 shares at a premium of 10s. each.
Now, to provide for further expansion
of the business —headquarters is at Gee-
long, and there are 36 branches through-
out the State —those on the register at
February 18 are to be offered 156,000
new £1 shares at par, two for five, pay-
able in full on application by March 31.
Paid captial will thus become £546,000,
on which last term’s near-record profit of
£132,617 was equal to 24.3 p.c.
For the year to June 30, 1954, the co.
sold 89,872 bales (down 8197 bales)
wool, or approximately 9 p.c. of the
Victorian clip, figures for which compare
as follows:
Sold Value. Per Bale.
Bales. £ £ s. d.
1951- .. 999,499 84,140,987 84 3 8
1952- .. 1,093,238 106,850,450 97 14 9
1953- .. 1,007,932 99,753,727 98 19 4
In the livestock markets the co. sold
“considerably” more sheep at higher
prices, and cattle sales were up, too, while
commissions on land sales showed “a
good increase,”
So after allowing £22,108 (down
£2465) for depreciation, £79,000 (down
£17,500) for taxation and something for
other contingencies, the board was able
to write net earnihgs £32,127 stronger
at £132,617:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1950 .. 92,511 15 p.e. = 45,000 47,511 216,333
Tax overprovided, £4402 . . .. 220,735
Share premiums, £45,000 .. .. 265,735
1951 .. 136,053 20 p.c. = 74,400 61,653 327,388
Tax overprovided, £12,185 .. .. 339,573
Written off investments, £4363 .. 335,210
Unexplained decrease, £9290 .. 325,920
1952 .. 67,642 15 p.c. = 68,500 9,142 335,062
Written back to investments, £lOO 0 336,062
1953 .. 100,490 15 p.c. = 58,500 41,990 378,052
Profit sale assets, etc., £10,152 .. 388,204
Tax overprovision, £22,256 .. .. 410,460
To staff fund, etc., £19,43 3 .. .. 391,027
W/off premises, £66,000 .. .. 325,027
1954 . . 132,617 20 p.c. = 78,000 54,617 379,644
* Subject to intangibles, £80,925.
The improvement in last term’s profit
was not as great as it looked, because
£22,565 had been overprovided for taxa-
tion in 1953. However, the £132,617,
which leaves out of the reckoning a
capital gain of £10,152 on sale of assets,
etc., was 34 p.c. on capital as it stood
at the close of accounts as against 25.7,
17.3, 36.5, 31.8 and 18 p.c. back to 1949.
The distribution was lifted from 15 p.c.
to 20 p.c., of which 10 p.c. is labelled
bonus, a reminder that the 20 p.c. is for
a fat year, not a normal one. Over the
last six years declared net earnings
averaged £97,232, which is equal to 10.5
p.c. on shareholders’ funds (including the
new capital), or 17.8 p.c. on the £546,000
of capital alone.
During the year extensive additions
and alterations were made to premises
bought for use as a wool-store in 1951.
The cost was charged against reserves,
built up for the purpose, which were
drawn unon for £66.000. Thus the vear’s


DA VIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
trade Marks.— Advt.
36in.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water, systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of "Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for months’ subscription to "The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £ 1/1 6/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
The Bulletin*’ or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire ~.. £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
Gillette
H
Quick-feed DISPENSER
Quick-action RAZOR
*/ . *.»// '////» •
i
3S?
V-. 7
&
A
I
Quick-feed Dispenser
Blue Gillette Blade
sharpest in the worM
Quick-action Razor
Speed from the word go. It’s the system that does
it. Twist the quick-action Gillette Razor’s open, a
new blade from the quick-feed Dispenser, twist—•
the razor’s closed ready for the fastest, smoothest
shave. And the 10-blade quick-feed Dispenser has
a built-in container for used blades. Start Superspeed
shaving today.
Quick-feed Dispenser loads
new blade in a flash
Container at back ends used
blade nuisance.
a
G
<•()
m
Always buy Blue Gillette Blades in a
Dispenser IT COSTS NO MORE!
10-blade DISPENSER 3'9
10-blade Packet . . 3'9
5-blade Packet . . ho
Ds2a
'Good mornings' begin with Gillette
net addition to the book-value
of premises and plant was only
£5407:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £390,000 £390,000
Reserves .. .. 378,052 379,644
Creditors, etc. .. 163,188 193,878
Staff funds ~ 25,000 44,433
Tax provision .. 97,645 79,000
Final div. .. 46,800 66,300
£1,100,685 £1,163,255
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 295,456 294,265
Plant, etc. .. 61,668 68,266
Stock .. .. 32,358 29,675
Debtors .. .. 319,852 501,331
Cash, etc. .. 289,975 150,490
Trust accounts .. 30,448 28,300
Goodwill .. .. 70,928 80,928
£1,100,685 £1,153,255
The expansion of £181,479 in
debtors’ balances suggests that
more attention is being given to
the pastoral-finance side of the
business, where the call for assist-
ance can be expected to move
according to variations in
seasonal conditions and wool-
prices. The cash holding was
drawn upon for £139,485.
As for the current term, the
wool clip is heavier, but prices
are down. For the six months
to December 31 last average
price per pound for the Com-
monwealth was 72.55 d. as against
85.79 d. for the corresponding
half of 1953, a drop of 18.2 p.c.
Demand for comeback and fine
crossbred wools has recently
strengthened, and the price-drift
has been arrested, temporarily at
any rate.
At 455. the net price of the
scrip, after exercising the rights
to the new issue and allowing for
brokerage, is 38s. 2d., at which
figure the return would be 10.4
p.c. so long as the 20 p.c. distri-
bution continues, or 6.3 p.c. on
an average 12 p.c. div. basis.
The rights thus have a
theoretical value of 17s. Bd.,
and might become available at
less. Net tangible cover, includ-
ing the new issue, is 335. lid.
Austral Malay Tin Group
f\F the three cos. now operating
w in the Austral Malay Tin
group, Austral Amalgamated
(Malaya) is the largest and most
promising. The other two,
Pungah (West Thailand) and
Thabawleik (Lower Burma), are
each nearing the end of their
present virgin ground. A fourth
co., Kamp o n g Kamunting
(Malaya), has treated all
pay-dirt available, and its dredge
is on a care-and-maintenance
basis pending a new property
becoming available.
Austral Amalgamated
The co.—paid capital £492,307
in ss. shares owns four
separate properties. The one at
Asam Kumbang is being worked
on a tribute basis; Sungkai,
bought early in 1953, is to be
worked by the reconstructed
Asam Kumbang dredge,
scheduled to begin digging
early in 1955 ; Ulu Yam,
equipped with a 150,000-c.y.-a-
-month machine, is giving a satis-
factory account of itself;
Puchong is now being equipped
with a second dredge, bought
from Austral N.Z., Ltd., now in
course of erection, but not likely
to start up before the third
quarter of 1955.
Performances of the two
dredges now operating compare
as follows:
Concen- Av. Overall
Treated, trates, Per C.y.,Cost,
C.y. Tons. Lbs. C.y.
Ulu Yam-
-1953.. 000 431.3 0.80 28.56 d.
1954.. 351.7 0.49 17.01 d.
Puchong—
-1953.. 486.000 601.5 0.30 12.09 d.
1954.-4,442,000 758.1 0.38 11.54 d.
Profit for the year to June 30
last was £115,244 (down £54,770),
or 23.4 p.c. on capital. No div.
was paid—4s. a share was sent
out in the previous term —money
being wanted to help finance the
new Sungkai sector and for
erection of No. 2 dredge at
Puchong.
Shareholders “must ultimately
benefit from the enlarged scope
of operations,” the chairman
says. Both the Ulu Yam and
Puchong No. 1 machines will be
operating in virgin ground early
in the current term, and satisfac-
tory outputs are expected from
each unit. And these outputs
should fee supplemented by that
from the Sungkai dredge early
in 1955. This and the rise in the
price of tin since fhe close of
accounts augur well for a better
showing at next balance. The
overall cost of production last
term was £4ll per ton metallic tin.
When the books closed current
assets totalled £344,095, of
which £163,669 was cash and
Government securities. External
liabilities amounted to £184,469.
The market expresses its con-
fidence in the future of the under-
taking by pricing the shares at
21s. each, thus valuing the under-
taking at £2,067,689.
Pungah Tin Dredging
For the year to June 30, 1954,
the co., which has a paid capital
of £215,000 in 10s. shares, treated
2,669,000 c.y. (down 242,000
c.y.), averaging 0.511 b. (0.381 b.
previous term), for 609.8 tons (up
118.5 tons) concentrates, assay-
ing 72 p.c. metallic tin. Profit
was £16,982 better at £58,682, or
27.2 p.c. on capital, despite the
drop in the price of tin. The
div. was kept at Is. per share,
less 30 p.c. Malayan income tax,
the net rate being 7 p.c. Another
Is. a share was paid in
September, 1954.
In the near future the dredge
is to be docked for extensive
repairs. Practically all virgin
ground has been worked, leaving
the future of the mine largely
dependent upon the reworking of
tailings, from which recent
results have not been as
encouraging as originally hoped
for. Arrangements have been
made to re-enter the rich area
worked pre-war and during the
Jap occupation.
At June 30 last current assets
totalled £183,949, of which
£110,812 was cash and Govern-
ment securities, and current
liabilities amounted to £70,975.
At 9s. a share the market values
the undertaking at £193,520.
Thabawleik Tin Dredging
The co. has a paid capital of
£BO,OOO in 10s. shares. For the
year to June 30 last its dredge
handled 1,476,000 c.y. (down
28,000 c.y.) of 0.711 b. (down
0.571 b.) dirt for 466.6 tons (down
371.7 tons) concentrates, which
yielded a profit of £30,339 (down
£82,538), or 33 p.c. on capital.
The div. was maintained at 11s.
per share, equal to 76.2 p.c. after
allowing for Malayan tax. The
lower-grade of ground worked
and the fall in the price of tin
were responsible for the sharp
contraction in profit. The
Anglo-Rurma co.’s adjoining
lease, which Thabawileik had
arranged to work on tribute, was
abandoned after less than 30
acres had been dug, because of
poor recoveries and difficult
operating conditions. The
remaining virgin ground in the
co.’s own lease is “very limited.”
The future of this mine now
depends upon recoveries from
tailings. Last term’s overall cost
of production was equal to £432
per ton metallic tin.
When the books closed current
asset,s exceeded current liabilities
by £103,408. The market prices
the shares at 355.
Average London price of
metallic tin for the year to June
30, 1954, was £5629.1 as against
£5900.3 for the preceding 12
months. For the six months to
December 31, 1954, the figure
was £5730.8. The international
tin agreement, which aims to
stabilise the price of the metal
by establishing production
quotas and a buffer stock, will
not come into operation until
ratified by member-countries.


Woman’s Letter
MELBOURNE
At the cocktail-party given at the
Dorchester by U.S. Consul J. Wieden-
mayer and Mrs. Wiedenmayer to wel-
come the new U.S. Consul-General, Mr.
Gerald Warner, and his wife, the hostess
chose a frock of navy-blue silk patterned
in emerald-green flowers. Appliqued
flowers from the print finished the black
tulle side-drape on the slim skirt.
Mrs. Warner’s slim frock of lime-green
silk was overchecked in turquoise-blue.
Mrs. Givon Parsons, whose husband is
also an American Consul, chose a frock
and loose jacket of black faille and a tiny
black hat finished with a soft veil.
Among the guests were Lord Mayor
F. P. Selleck and Mrs. Selleck (she in a
black silk taffeta frock and small rose-
pink crinoline-straw hat massed with pink
flowers); Sir Sydney Rowell and Lady
Rowell; Sir Samuel Burston and his
wife ; and Mrs. Norman Robinson, whose
pretty frock of palest-mauve Roman-silk
faintly etched in black went with a tiny
calot of rose-pink organza-leaves.
The Consul-General for the Nether-
lands (Col. F. H. Wright), Danish Consul
E. Christensen and Swiss Consul M.
Paul-Emile Cattin were accompanied by
their wives. Mme. T. Liu, wife of the
Chinese Consul, wore a black satin
national-gown heavily embroidered in
gold on the bodice. Among Americans
present were Captain and Mrs. Robert
Macpherson, Col. Jack Sullivan and Mrs.
Sullivan, Major and Mrs. L. F. Donnelly
and Lieut. Robert Brunstead and Mrs.
Brunstead.
☆ ☆ ☆
The opening night of “Colored
Rhapsody” at the Tivoli was notable for
the sartorial glamor on both sides of
the footlights. In particular the dressing
of the ballet-girls gave point to the show’s
title.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll, whose party
included film- and stage-star Melvyn
Douglas (he’ll be seen shortly at the
Princess in “Time Out For Ginger”),
wore a strapless frock of navy-blue silk
and an emerald-green stole. Mrs. Norman
Lynch allied black taffeta and white
Swiss-organza. A tiny bolero of gold
sequins was worn over a black frock by
Mrs. Eric Cottrell. Mrs. Royden Honey-
man had gold embroideries on her deep-
brown frock. Mrs. P. L. Coleman’s slim
frock was of beige French crepe. Mrs.
H. Silk topped her black frock with a
tiny emerald-green hat.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mary, daughter of Mrs. Colin
Mackenzie, South Yarra, and the late
Mr. Mackenzie, formerly of Avenel, has
announced her engagement to Mr.
Herbert Pacini. A quiet wedding in
April will be followed by a four-months’,
tour abroad. Mary has been press-
relations officer with the Myer Emporium,
and Mr. Pacini is manager of Melbourne
“Sun.” The engagement-ring has one
large sapphire with a diamond at each
side.
.☆ ☆ , ☆
Bowls of beautiful white flowers
decorated St. John’s, Toorak, for the mar-
riage of Elizabeth Ann Lane and Michael
Austin Cavanaugh. The bride, who is
the elder daughter of Mrs. Charles Lane,
of Toorak, and the late Mr. Lane, wore
a picture-gown of white tulle made with
a finely folded bodice which had short
sleeves, the stiffened skirt forming a long
train. Her short white tulle veil was
caught by a small tiara, and she carried
a bouquet of white orchids.
Judy Spry, idath McAlpin and the
bride’s sister Sally were bridesmaids.
Their bouquets were white geraniums tied
with olive-green satin ribbons, and they
wore matching green ribbon hair-bows
with their full-length frocks and cross-
over jackets of white tulle. The ’groom,
who is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Harry
Cavanaugh, of Toorak, had Lynton
Morgan as best man. Groomsmen were
Jim Middleton and Bob Preece. A cock-
tail-party was given after the ceremony
at the Toorak home of Mrs. Harry Long.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of this city’s prettiest and most
popular girls will be missing from the
local scene when “Chicken” Booth and
her mother, Mrs. Eric Booth, leave next
month for overseas. In London they
will stay with Mrs. Booth’s brother and
sister-in-law, Dr. and Mrs. Frank
d’Abreu, at Regent’s Park (Mrs. d’Abreu
was formerly Miss Anne Bowes-Lyon,
and is a first-cousin of the Queen
Mother).
☆ ☆ ☆
Engagement has been announced of
Miss Ruth Meaney, matron of the Royal
Women’s Hospital, to Mr. James Aitken
Millear, second son of the late Mr. and
Mrs. T. Millear, of Edgarley, Willaura.
Miss Meaney, who is the youngest
daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. P. J.
Meaney, formerly of Ararat, plans to
leave the hospital in April, and her mar-
riage will take place early in May. After-
wards, she will live at Willaura. Miss
Meaney has been on the staff of the R. W.
Hospital for five years, the last three as
matron. Previously she was on the staff
of the Alfred Hospital.
This pretty, smiling lass is Gillian,
only daughter of Mrs. John Pain, of
Toorak, and the late Col. J. H. F. Pain.
Educated at St. Hilary’s (W.A.) and St.
Catherine’s (Melbourne), she worked for
the Liberal party before going to England
for the Coronation. For the past 14
months Gillian has been public-relations
officer with the Spastic Children’s Society,
the children under whose care will soon
be housed at the new hostel in Hunting-
tower. Gillian plays tennis and swims,
and likes snow-sports.
The river-boat Fairyland was trans-
formed by decorations for the Mississippi
Rendezvous on the Yarra. Around the
bandstand were massed pumpkins, water-
melons and sweet-corn, and there were
myriads of vivid streamers. Dressing
was informal, with gay cotton frocks
predominating. The most popular cos-
tume was a “Scarlett O’Hara” outfit —
long full skirt, nipped-in jacket with
leg-o’-mutton sleeves, and straw hat tied
under the chin. This was the second of
the functions arranged by the Robin
Hood committee for the Helping Hand
Association (which works for mentally
retarded children).
Supper was served at the Hawthorn
tea-house, where the 200 guests had
chicken-salad followed by watermelon.
At the Anderson-street landing, guests
were received by Mr. and Mrs. James
Alston (she is president of the com-
mittee) and secretary Moya Horowitz.
Guests-of-honor were H.H.A. secretary
J. S. McNamara and Mrs. McNamara,
Mr. and Mrs. H. Weir and Dr. and Mrs.
H. Johnston.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. R. V. Gove, wife of the chair-
man of the Melbourne Racing Club,
wore a black-and-white check silk frock
and small white straw hat when she was
hostess at a large luncheon-party prior
to the first race at Caulfield. Her guests
included Lady Naylor-Leyland and Lady
Kearns, both English visitors. Lady
Collins, wearing a white-spotted butter-
cup-yellow silk frock and small white
straw hat, was accompanied by her
daughter Gillian. Mrs. A. J. Moir’s
black-printed white silk frock was worn
with a small currant-red straw calot.
Mrs. H. Davey’s jacket-suit was of navy
silk brocaded with white ; her small white
hat had a straw-mount edged with navy,
Mrs. H. Way chose powder-blue silk
spotted with white, and a large black
hat.
SYDNEY
The week ushered in February, the
month that brings to Sydney heat with-
out sunshine and rain without freshness.
The children went back to many schools,
very collar-proud in smart uniforms after
existing in sun-suits for six weeks Aus-
tralia lost sight of the Ashes, wickets
falling so fast at one stage that one didn’t
have time to switch from FC to BL
and back without missing a fall or so.
TV drew a step nearer with the strangest
combinations of people applying jointly
for licences. Nobody seems to think that
TV will add much to the joy of life, but
all say, “We’ve got to have it, haven’t
we? It’.s progress.”
Ten-o’clock closing came in and the
sale of dart-boards went up. There was
another example of how Sydney people
will queue-up for culture when the
exhibition of “sixes” at the Macquarie
Galleries drew a crowd which began to
form at six-o’clock the previous evening.
Noted that well-known art-collectors like
Miss Barbara Lane-Mullins and Mr.
Adrian Feint were among those who
arrived in the dawn.
English textile-manufacturer Cyril
Lord flew into Sydney and said that
his new fabric, Taiho, made it possible
for the maid to wear what was once
limited to her mistress. Query, what
maid?
On reflection, it seems that February’s
chief attraction is that it “has but
twenty-eight days clear and twenty-nine
in each leap-year,” though you can’t
take the word “clear” on trust.
(Since the above paragraph was
written, February has most unfairly come
up with some glorious summer days,
especially for the weekend. Now, isn’t
that mean!)
Recently engaged is Jill Camming,
only child of Mr. and Mrs. Colin
Cununing, whose father is manager of
the Sydney branch of the Bank of N.S.W.
Her fiance is Peter Ryan, eldest son of
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Ryan, of Clifton
Gardens, and the engagement was
announced at a party at Prince’s last
week. Jill’s ring is a solitaire diamond
with graduated diamond shoulders.
Photo by Hugh Spencer.
Personality of the week was world-
famous variety-artist Winifred Atwell,
who arrived in this town with her hus-
band Lew Levisohn (looking about six-
foot tall and as broad as he’s long), her
entourage and her “other piano.” This
other piano cost only £7 10s., is slightly
out of tune, has a distinctive “yoing,
yoing” sound, and under the slim brown
fingers of Miss Atwell (insured for
£40,000) produces the most electrifying
ragtime. Miss Atwell is also noted for
her playing of popular classics on her
grand-piano, and she insists that she is
not a jazz pianist but a “commercial
pianist.”
Trinidad is Miss Atwell’s home-town,
but London has now become her home.
Her husband is English, and her parents
live with her in a beautiful Tudor house,
Green Trees, just outside London.
Warm, friendly, poised and humorous,
Miss Atwell is infectiously happy, and it
is to be hoped that during her six-month
tour of Australia with the Tivoli Circuit
her gay vitality will prove catching to
many hundreds of Australians.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mr. John Davis, managing-director
of the J. Arthur Rank Organisation, and
his wife, who was formerly Dinah
Sheridan, star of films “Genevieve” and
“Where No Vultures Fly,” were in Sydney
briefly during the week, and were enter-
tained at a reception by the Royal Empire
Society.
Mrs. Davis, who has two children, has
now retired from films, which she says
is a great relief, because in the past she
had to rise at 5.30 a.m. to go to the
studio and didn’t get home till dark,
with the result that she rarely saw her
children. At the reception she looked
most glamorous in a short, sleeveless
sheath-dress in emerald-and-black brocade
with black accessories and a veil studded
with brilliants.
Mr. Davis spoke on the film-industry
in England, and Colonel L. F. Rudd,
president of the Auckland (N.Z.) branch
of the R.E.S., who brought Mrs. Rudd
and daughters Audrey and Beverley to
the reception, responded to a speech of
welcome given by president W. J. Bradley.
☆ ☆ ☆
To say good-bye to Professor and Mrs.
R. G. Howarth, who leave on Friday by
the Dominion Monarch for Cape Town,
South Africa, a delightful cocktail-party
was given by Mrs. Beatrice Bridges at
her Cammeray home during the week.
Among those who came to say farewell
to the guests-of-honor were Dr. and Mrs.
George Mackaness, Miss Thelma Herring,
Mrs. Janet Ryall, Mr. and Mrs. Alec
Bolton, Dr. and Mrs. Malcolm Whyte,
Mr. James Meagher, Mr. E. L. Jeune
and Dr. Eric Susman. Professor
Howarth, who was Reader in English
Literature at Sydney University, has been
appointed to the Ardene Chair of English
Literature at the University of Cape
Town.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Countess d’Espinay, affectionately
known as “Yani” and again as “Henriette
Lamotte,” is devoting all the proceeds
from the preview of her winter collection
of hats to the Royal Blind Society of
N.S.W. The preview is to be held at
her home, 18 Eastbourne-road, Darling
Point, at 5.30 next Friday. Coupled
with it will be a collection of mink furs
from Renee Pty., Melbourne, described
as “the most fabulous collection ever
produced in Australia.”
☆ ☆ ☆
The Contemporary Art Society did
choose Michael Kmit’s self-portrait as
the best entrant in the Archibald con-
test, just as this Letter said they would
two weeks ago. They also awarded him
a prize for his painting “Cross Section,”
which seems to show what goes on inside
an apartment-house, only you have to
puzzle it out. Judy Cassab’s portrait of
him was highly recommended, and also
the portrait of Professor McAuley by
J. Carington Smith. The exhibition of
rejects from the Archibald exhibition,
organised by the society at the Educa-
tion Department’s Gallery, will be open
until 5 p.m. on Friday, February 11.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Silver Jubilee Dance of the Red
Cross Headquarters Auxiliary will be
held on Saturday, February 26, at Arthur
Murray’s Dance Studios, and it will
include a colorful dance-presentation in
national dress of the Liszt Hungarian
Rhapsody No. 2 by Continental dancer
Lici Ray. It is hoped that at the
function many guests will enrol as
volunteer blood-donors for the Red
Cross. All those who do will be given
a course of dancing-lessons free of
charge by Arthur Murray.
☆ ☆ ☆
When the H-line is well enough
advanced for the corset-manufacturers to
make provision for it, one can depend
that it will be the fashion next season.
During the week Caprice foundations
showed some examples of how attrac-
tive the figure can look in a modified H-
line foundation, but as the figures on
which they were shown looked attrac-
tive in any case, that wasn’t much con-
solation. It was clear, however, that the
exaggerated uplift-figure is to give way
to a smoother, rounded effect (which is a
definite imprpvement), and that the torso
is to be made look longer, which might
possibly help some folks in their quest
for beauty.
☆ ☆ ☆
On Parramatta-road, in Annandale,
there is a large sign pointing down a
side-street and saying “Alternative Route
to Parramatta-road.” One was tempted
to go down the side-street singing the
while “I’m going back to where I come
from.”


For Sale
TAIHOA, MT. IRVINE
One of the healthiest, most beautiful spots
in the Blue Mountains. Very quietly
situated 65 miles from Sydney. (Now
in use as a Guest House.) Beautiful
country home with solid woodwork in all
rooms: sewered. Abundant spring water.
Separate cottage (now in use as a
children’s holiday resort) and 54 acres
of fertile volcanic soil, with avenues of
walnuts, chestnuts, poplars, suitable fat
lambs’ nursery, apples. Or will sell with
10 acres. Price £15,000. Terms may
be arranged. Apply H. HAMILTON
MOORE & CO., Solicitors, 7 Wynyard
Street, Sydney. 8X3144.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862 .
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
“Please send a ’plane...
with instructions how to fly”
Charles ritchie was a man who knew what
he wanted. When he was directing the con-
struction of the first pipeline in Persia, 1911,
he decided that a ’plane would be useful for
field survey work.
Without more ado he wrote home, ‘Please
send me the best machine available—and
don’t forget to enclose instructions on how to
fly.’ This was only eighteen months after
Bleriot had flown the English Channel, and
the nearest that Ritchie had been to an aircraft
was as a spectator at an air display!
The ’plane, a Bleriot monoplane with 50 h.p.
Gnome rotary engine, duly arrived, flew . . .
and crashed. Obviously the instructions were
inadequate! But the event nevertheless
marked the beginning of a new era, and the
beginning of fruitful association between
BP and flying.
Since then BP Aviation Service has come a
long way. Today, geared to keep pace with
future developments and demands, it is ready
at all times to provide aviation fuels speedily
and efficiently.
VAVIATIDH
SERVICE^
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of The British Petroleum
Company, Limited.
2/54
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Sinatra Sidelights
I was curious enough to hear
the “Voice,” but still- more
curious to find out what makes
the screamers scream and the
squealers squeal.
So when Sinatra and I
happened to be visiting Mel-
bourne at the same time I got a
toehold on the bus for the 6 p.m.
show at the West Melbourne
Stadium. It was filled with late
teenagers, mostly girls.
They seemed normal enough.
In fact I felt a bit self-conscious.
My shoulders weren’t padded,
my haircut wasn’t shaped, and
a snake could easily have worked
its way under my trouser-cuffs.
I felt a bit like a Dickens
character.
We poured into the—er —cheap
seats, and it was the strangest
feeling. The last time I was
here was 20 years ago, and the
last “Voice” I remember was
“Garn, you c’n knock his block
off!”
The clock above the ring told
us that the time was Round 2,
30 seconds to go, and I was
reflecting on this when my com-
panion inquired what the wire
screen in front of our seats was
for. I explained gently to her
that it was to stop beer-bottles
from being thrown any further
than us, but the eternal female
spirit was oblivious. “Look,” she
exclaimed, “they’re dressed for
the Cocktail Hour.” Sure
enough, in the ringside seats the
smart - dressers were there.
Instead of using eucalyptus to
remove stains next day they’d be
busy removing the eucalyptus.
The seats around us were fill-
ing with teenagers, with an odd
Philistine here and there. One
old stick had come across the
road in slippers. Everybody was
munching potato-chips. Every-
body was happy. I found it hard
to believe that these lasses could
scream or swoon unless it was at
a mouse.
The clock stayed at Round 2,
but things were happening at the
ringside. The atmosphere of the
big fight was rising fast. Instead
of buckets and towels a double-
bass and trumpet made their way
into the pit. Very thoughtfully
they took up the strains of
“Time on My Hands” for the
overture.
(At this stage a charming
teenager lent me her eyebrow-
pencil to jot this down.)
The preliminary bouts began
and the compere corkscrewed
his way around the ring so that
we could catch an odd word here
and there when Mr. Wishart’s
timetable would allow. Then a
cute little dish put on a dancing
act that made me forget all about
what I’d come to see.
Then we were treated to 15
minutes of singing in the raucous
style started by Sophie Tucker,
and still considered novel for
some reason or other. But this
artist had a triple role to play.
Not only did she sing. She had
to wriggle to please those in
front of her, and at the same
time wriggle to satisfy those at
the back.
There was a break to give Mr.
Wishart a fair go with his trains,
and then it was time for the
“Voice.”
Wild, enthusiastic clapping
greeted Frankie. It was normal
and natural. I was a bit disap-
pointed. This might have been
Rocky Marciano in the ring.
Frankie walked. Frankie
talked. Then Frankie sang. The
audience clapped. Still normal.
Then Frankie stepped his
narrow-cuffed trousers over to
the edge of the ring and saw
all those swoon-hungry teen-
agers. He motioned to Dennis
Collinson, and a shiver went
through the “teenaged at heart.”
Loading Black Magic into his
voice Sinatra manoeuvred the
audience into a corner, tapped
them gently with a note or two
and waited. With a guttural sigh
that held them mesmerised the
“Voice” gave it to them right
between the eyes. The Black
Magic worked. All around the
ring a piercing squeal went up.
This was it. Hearing was
believing.
Like a generous victor the
“Voice” didn’t make them
squirm. What did he do? He
broke off the song and stood back
for a moment and laughed.
Anyone who can squeeze
romantic hysteria out of the drab
surroundings of the West Mel-
bourne Stadium is an artist
indeed. Sinatra did more than
that—he took the teenagers from
here to eternity. John
Macgowan.
■*s»
Colored Rhapsodists
Melb. Tiv. was happily brought
back with a wild rush into public
favor by the Colored Rhapso-
dists, a corps of negro dancers
who whizz, whirl, amble and
shamble and nearly shake their
heads and limbs off to the crazy
rhythm of an amazing drummer,
and have that curious quality of
relaxation and abandon which
one seldom sees in Caucasian
ballet and which one certainly
doesn’t see in Gordon Humphris,
a talented , young London
dancer, but correct rather than
orgiastic.
Besides the Norma Miller
dancers there is another star on
the programme. He is David
Hughes, alias Mr. Heart-throb,
a Welsh cross with another kind
of music who has a large voice
which he can pour into small
vessels or can roll out into senti-
mental billows.
£4
Winifred Atwell
At Sydney Tivoli Winifred
Atwell gave a scintillating display
of skill in ragtime, boogie-
woogie and swing, throwing in
a brief bit of the classics in the
form of the cadenza from the
Grieg concerto and winning
riotous applause, not only for
her musicianship, but also for
her vibrant personality.
She played on her two pianos,
one a Steinway and the other an
old-fashioned upright with the
front removed so that the audi-
ence could see the hammers
working at an eye-shattering
pace. Her act is too short, and
could be improved by having
the accompanying drums toned
down, but otherwise it is
spectacular.
<♦
Light Opera
The Australian Light Opera
Company’s production of “Show
Boat” at the Rockdale (N. S.
Wales) Town Hall is an example
of how a group of amateurs can
send swinging along at a smooth
pace a production involving 25
parts, 13 changes of scene, a
ballet and chorus of 44, a 16-
piece orchestra and 17 musical
numbers.
Everything is not perfect, of
course. Gaylord Ravenal is lack-
ing in verve, though Rodney
Smith, who plays the part, sings
well; Magnolia, played by
Dorothy Morgan, suffers from
the same complaint; while
Parthy Ann Hawks (Pamela
Hawken) and Captain Andy
(Edwin Pfeiffer) are too
stereotyped.
There is good comedy work
from Terry O’Keefe and Nan
Chapman, a sharp character-
study of Julie by Gaynor
Mitchell (a little too mannered)
and a quite creditable singing of
“Old Man River” by Edwin
Chopping (considering that one’s
standard for this song has
become Paul Robeson’s account
of it). His “I Still Suits Me,”
however, with Dossie Lambert,
was too melancholy.
The whole cast threw them-
selves into the production (by
Leo Bosher) with tremendous
goodwill from curtain-rise to the
moment when the lovers kiss
finally and the chorus sings, so
inappropriately, that they’re tired
of living and scared of dying.
Arthursts
Archibald Rejects
The N. S. Wales Con-
temporary Art Society, which,
being utterly fed-up with the
Gallery trustees giving the prizes
to the best paintings year after
year, decided to make its own
awards in the Wynne and Archi-
bald, picked out Michael
Kmit’s self-portrait for the one,
Michael Kmit’s landscape “Cross
Section” for the _other, and
commended J. Carington Smith’s
portrait of Prof. McAuley and
Judy Cassab’s portrait of
Michael Kmit ... so it might
be said they have thoroughly
kmitted themselves.
However, a second glance at
.the National Gallery, where all
these paintings except Michael
Kmit’s landscape are at least
hanging, confirms that Ivor Hele
still clearly wins the Archibald
—his portrait of Mr. Menzies
almost coruscates with vitality—
while the Wynne, if it hadn’t
gone quite reasonably to Arthur
Evan Read, might well have
gone to John Eldershaw for the
best oil he has shown for years.
A glance at the rejects at the
Education Department gallery
confirms that no vast and burn-
ing injustice has really been
done, Michael Kmit’s “land-
scape” being a cubist montage of
reds and blues that, at best,
echoes the pattern of stoned-
glass windows, as does one of
his “portraits.”
Room should perhaps have
been found at the official exhi-
bition for a rhythmical seapiece
by Herbert Carstens and two
bush landscapes by T. Deroty
Fodone. Both exhibitions are
singularly tame, but one might
mention that one rejected por-
trait has an alarm-clock growing
out of the top of its head.
Talkies
Current Sydney Releases:
“The Caine Mutiny” (State):
Herman Wouk’s Pulitzer Prize
novel, with a few scenes cut for
the screen, emphasises the con-
flicts of the mind which grip
each officer of the ship whose
nerve-ridden captain is removed
from duty by force during a
typhoon.
Best feature is the extended
court-martial sequence ; the chief
weakness is the unconvincing
storm-scene —so obviously a
working-model plunging in a
whipped-up pool.
“Betrayed” (St. James): Fairly
well-done suspense-drama of the
Dutch resistance movement
during the last war, with Clark
Gable, Victor Mature and Lana
Turner out to disprove that he
or she is the traitor. Denoue-
ment telegraphs its intention a
bit too early, but it’s worth see-
ing for the magnificently photo-
graphed Dutch scenery.


Lazy Walkabout
by PETER BLADEN
On his “lazy walkabout" from
Perth to Adelaide, per pushbike
and other means, Peter Bladen
has visited and described
Northam, the unusual com-
munity-town of Cunderdin, and
other centres, and is now in the
goldfields country, at Southern
Cross, where the streets are
named after the stars.
CUNDERDIN TO
COOLGARDIE (continued)
r\ FRIENDLY traveller in
>H wines and spirits drove
| me to Bullfinch in the
morning. Bullfinch is a
boom-town, one of the old
mining-towns restored to life in
the last few years by new pro-
cesses, whereby lower-grade ores
can be crushed at profit by the
speedy treatment of great
quantities.
Ore is being brought to Bull-
finch from mines to the north
and from Southern Cross to the
south. Some hopeful souls say
it could become a second
Kalgoorfie.
At the office a draughtsman
was loaned to me, and we went
on a tour of inspection. We saw
the ore being brought to the
crushers, the bins and conveyors
and samplers, agitators,
thickeners and filters and storage-
tanks ; and the ore changing
from grey rock to brown sludge
and dark slime —everything, in
fact, except the finished product,
the gold bars!
The powerhouse is so
immaculate that you could “eat
your dinner off the floor,” as
my guide remarked. A young
lad was turning a knob, and I
wondered what power lay in the
engine of which he was the
temporary guardian. He would
have been the envy of thousands
of youngsters his own age who
were brooding away at their
schoolbooks.
Everywhere outside there were
deep carpets of fine red dust.
We saw the miners, walking with
set purpose, wearing their
helmets, and the club with its
fenced-in beer-garden, the
streets all looking the same, with
their tin and asbestos houses and
struggling garden-plots ; and my
guide told me about the hunting
trips which are one of the
favorite forms of relaxation. An
interesting place and busy men!
At noon we returned to Southern
Cross and I was soon out cycling
again.
Six miles east is the No. 6
pumping - station at Ghooli,
typical of the others, each a
monument to the originators of
the scheme which has brought
water and the hope of life to
the eastern wheatbelt and the
goldfields. At Ghooli I found
some good companions and had
a cuppa.
Gradually the country became
less scrubby, with belts of
salmon-gums interspersed. There
were big flocks of sheep in
fenced paddocks, and at the road-
side evidence of many campfires.
It was a lonely road. The
nicest thing in the world, it
seemed, would be a blazing
campfire and convivial company.
I kept thinking of the early
diggers toiling along these roads
when they were hardly defined
tracks through the bush, of the
thirst and the dust and the lone-
liness, of the abandoned farm-
houses, and the fallen-in mining-
shafts, and the ruins of the old
wayside resting-places remi-
niscent of the days of the stage-
coaches. These were the symbols
of things on which many had
built their hopes, and most had
been disillusioned.
As I cycled on, I passed a rag-
doll which some child must have
dropped from a passing car. It
Was missing a head, with straw
at the neck, and battered and
marked by wheels, a broken play-
thing. Once little fingers had
loved it and made it an image.
In a child’s dream it had come
to life; and the rag-doll also
became a symbol of something
beautiful that had been lost.
My thoughts were becoming
sad, and I suppose I was feeling
lonely for home and friends. But
you never know where the road
will lead, and already I could
see the lights of Karalee peeping
through the trees at the top of a
rise. When I turned to look back
it was to discover that sunset
had deepened during my reverie,
and there were bewitching rosy
clouds, sweeping to fields of
purple and grey, with windows
of light beneath them.
There are very few buildings
in Karalee. The pub, of course,
is the main one. There were
lights there, and voices, and I
called in to investigate.-
Having taken a wrong turning
it took me a while to find the
hotel among the trees. It was
worth finding.
There were half a dozen chaps
in the bar, mainly Roads Board
laborers. I wanted company
more than nourishment, but it
was sufficient to gaze at the
shelves behind the bar, and to
sip a porter-gaff, and to listen-in
to the conversation. Later on
we all talked together, and passed
a friendly evening. I cannot
recall much of what was said,
but I can remember the shelves!
The bar was quite a sideshow.
Apart from the drinks, there
were packets of everything from
antacid to ant-powder on display,
cigarette-holders, pens and count-
less odds and ends. You could
buy biscuits and many other lines
from “the room at the back”;
and there were novelties.
There was a potato grown
locally in the shape of Donald
Duck, with match-sticks for legs
and a bottle-top for a cap; an
elephant which gave out
cigarettes when its trunk was
lifted; and a miniature cow
which was filled with beer-slops
and “milked”; a paper flower,
nestling in a vase of ferns, which
folded its petals when a hat was
placed over a piece of stone on
the shelf below; a clock which
wouldn’t go unless it was stand-
ing beside the vodka; and signs
which proclaimed: “Your credit
is good here,” followed by a
rear-view drawing of a pig and
the assurance: “It is!” “We
promise you a cool reception,”
referring to the beer; and the
good old favorite, an “Ear and
Lug Bashers’ Tificate” (so pro-
nounced, said Bill the publican,
because Australians don’t like
saying “sir”).
One of the under-the-counter
exhibits was a great sandalwood
waddy, used, if you can believe
it, for keeping order in the bar.
When the party palled, Bill
would organise penny-puzzles on
the counter, or sprinkle beer for
a few pet ants which called in
every evening, he said, for a
drop; or he would produce his
“screeds,” typed stories and
advertisements which seemed
funnier as the evening wore on,
and which would send even
hardened carriers diving into
their pockets for stubs of
pencils and scraps of paper, “to
take a copy for Mum.”
Before the evening had ended
a couple of carriers called in on
their way to Coolgardie. They
offered to give me a lift. After
imagining that the bike would be
stacked behind pianos and dis-
mantled beds, and that I might
find myself in the same position,
it was a relief to find that they
were driving an empty van.
I searched the sky for the
Southern Cross before we left,
and I coyldn’t find it, and every-
one else joined in the search, but
none of us could find it. When
we said our farewells, towards
midnight, it wasn’t because the
pub had closed.
My journey had speeded up
suddenly. Everyone had said
that there was nothing to be
seen before Coolgardie except
the trees by the roadside, and
that is about all we did see —mile
after mile of trees,
unfolding in the
headlights.
The carrier’s mate
passed the journey
sleeping in the back of
the van, and I sat with
the driver, a New Aus-
tralian, making a
constant flow of con-
versation, mainly to
keep him awake.
Sometimes, running out of
words, I would doze, and once,
coming to with a start, dis-
covered that we had nearly run
off the road. The driver said:
“I sleep a little!” and regained
control. A ’roo shot across the
road in front of us and disap-
peared into outer darkness.
Nobody knows at what speed
we were travelling. The speedo
Wasn’t working.
Later we pulled up for a rest.
The driver said to wake him in
fifteen minutes, but he slept for
nearly three hours. His “alarm-
clock” wasn’t reliable.
Somewhere, probably at Bulla
Bulling, I remember there was a
railway-crossing, and perhaps
some tennis-courts were along-
side the line. Apart from that,
only the endless fringe of trees!
I didn’t know until afterwards
that we had passed through Bali.
By the time we reached Cool-
gardie, 83 miles from Karalee, it
was already light. There were a
number of old stone buildings,,
and we pulled up with a screech
to avoid running over a dog.
COOLGARDIE
Oh, men have come and men have
gone,
Since Bayley’s star gleamed bright,
And new lights shine where old lights
shone
In Bayley-street, tonight.
And did you see those grand old men,
Bright-eyed, though bowed and grey,
Returning to the ’fields again,
Like ghosts of yesterday!
—Jack Sorenson,
in the Perth “Sunday Times,” when
Coolgardie, ‘‘The Old Camp,” had its
60 th birthday in 1952.
TN Coolgardie, now little more
A than a ghost-town away from
the main street, you will notice
such street-names as those of
Bayley and Ford, Lefroy, Hunt
and Renou, and there is an
obelisk at the site of Bayley’s
reef —from which 5540 z. of gold
was hacked —as a mark of
respect for its discoverers, and
those who blazed the trails for
them through an almost water-
less desert, particularly Gilles
McPherson, little-known pros-
pectors like Rudd and Glass, and
others nameless who died in these
lonely gullies.
Coolgardie was founded as a
result of their endeavors, and
has not only endured as a town-
ship for 60 years, when many
sister-towns have risen to pros-
perity and entirely disappeared,
but it has been the mainspring
for new discoveries in an
industry which has benefited the
West, and indeed the whole of
Australia.
Here, then, is the story of a
few of the gallant men who were
at Coolgardie, the “Old Camp,”
in the early days.
In 1863 Lefroy, on an explor-
ing trip eastwards of York, dis-
covered Gnarlbine Soak. Charles
Hunt in the following year
travelled the same route. It was
Hunt, the surveyor, who
employed three convicts who
Were said to have absconded in
the early ’sixties and to have been
recaptured after attempting to
reach South Australia. They
had gold-specimens in their
possession, but would not reveal
where they had been found.
In 1864 Hunt established a
series of wells and rockholes,
known to the natives, which
became the lifeline of the early
prospectors. Reen’s Soak,
Booralim, Woolgangie and
Gnarlbine were watering-places
in the journeys of hardship, and
Gnarlbine became one of the
most important.
Gnarlbine Soak is 20 miles
south-west of Coolgardie. The
rock is a granite knoll a quarter
of a mile in diameter, with a
substantial pool after rain and
permanent soakage. Forrest
camped there in 1871. In 1888
Gilles McPherson, famished and
delirious, was led to its waters
by Toobey, his faithful native.
McPherson had been prospecting
and had passed near to the site
of Coolgardie, finding both
alluvial and reef gold.
The names of Hunt and
McPherson are not recorded in
many reference-books, but in the
story of Coolgardie their role
Was most significant.
Returning to Southern Cross,
McPherson came to Arthur
Bayley’s camp and rested there.
He told Bayley of his journey,
the hardships and the promise
of success. “Somewhere between
Burgess and Gnarlbine,” he said,
“plenty of gold but no water.”
McPherson, haying survived
two “perishes” in these desert
areas, later died in the snow at
Klondyke, but Bayley lived to
continue the search he had
undertaken.
In 1891 Speakman, “the
unlucky prospector,” and his
mates went out into the unknown
from Southern Cross. Speak-
man was a man dogged by ill-
luck who made several rich finds
which had to be abandoned for
want of water, and from which
others gathered the reward. On
this occasion the party had been
given up for lost when they
returned ragged and exhausted
with news of the Off Chance
reef at Ularring. The warden
made a hurried visit, to proclaim
the new goldfield.
John Ford, a member of the
Southern Cross Syndicate, wrote
about Speakman’s finds to his
friend Arthur Bayley, who had
gone on to the Murchison, ask-
ing him to buy horses and join
him as soon as rain fell and it
was possible for him to get
through.
The two friends went to
Ularring after the bountiful rains


of March, 1892, but with little
success. Probably remembering
McPherson’s words, “Plenty of
gold but no water,” they decided
to move further south while
water was still available.
Not far from Burgess, Ford
found the first piece of gold, in
Pig Gully. Bayley located gold
on Fly Flat, which he named for
an obvious reason. Bayley and
Ford were not the first miners in
this area. Close to their camp
they found an old claim which
had been pegged in 1888, and in
a near-by gully were the remains
of two nameless skeletons.
In July they returned to
Southern Cross with 200 oz. of
gold, and though they made the
visit as unobtrusive as possible,
those were the days when pros-
pectors slept with one ear and
one eye open so that there would
be no risk of missing-out on a
“rush,” and Bayley and Ford
were followed on their departure
by Tommy Talbot and his two
mates.
The parties camped close
together. “It was on a bright
September morning,” as Talbot
later wrote, that in moving up a
gentle slope “we found gold
galore, gold all round us.”
In the first afternoon’s work,
after the location of the reef,
£l7OO-worth of gold had been
obtained. The men buried part
of the gold, hoping to conceal
their find, and returned to camp.
Bayley and Ford had been on
the point of shifting camp to
Red Hill, but next morning,
before Talbot and his friends
returned to their find, Bayley and
Ford had chanced upon the
buried specimens. In their
inexperience, the discoverers had
neglected to follow the recog-
nised procedure. Bayley set to
work pegging the claim, which
came to be known as Bayley’s
Reward.
There is a painting by Gerald
Walsh called “Bayley’s Luck,” in
the Fimiston, one of the two
remaining pubs on the Boulder
Block, once the site of six hotels
and a brewery and affectionately
named “The Dirty Acre.” The
painting, a large one, shows
Ford, the elder of the two, wear-
ing bowyangs and looking more
excited than Bayley, whose face
is a study in indifference. The
artist didn’t see fit to include
Talbot and his party. No doubt
their expressions would also have
been beyond him.
Talbot was told that all was
fair in the mining game, and
advised to peg a claim south of
Bayley’s. Bayley returned to
Southern Cross to register the
find, carrying 5540 z. of gold,
enough to fill two wash-basins.
Later this lease, bought by
Sylvester Brown, made
phenomenal returns. From one
crushing of 40 tons, over
21,0000 z. of gold was obtained.
Six weeks after the proclama-
tion of the new field 400 men had
flocked to the site and thousands
were on their way from all parts
of the world.
Montana was one name given
to the spot by some of the early
American prospectors. The
name Coolgardie derives from
Golgardi,” the name of a native
rockhole, which some old-timers
still insist meant “a hiding-
place for dogs.”
At the end of the year most of
the men were forced to return
to Southern Cross owing to the
lack of water, but in 1893 the
first settlement at Fly Flat
expanded, and there was soon
a township of tents and hessian
humpies and bough sheds, with
four hotels doing their best to
make up for the water-shortage.
Fabulous are the stories of the
early “rushes.” When news
reached Coolgardie of a rich
find at Mt. Yuille, about 50 miles
to the north-east, the township
was nearly deserted.
Paddy Hannan, an Irishman,
and his mate, Tom Flannagan,
were late in joining the throng
because of trouble in obtaining
horses. They left Coolgardie
three days behind the leaders.
Twenty-five miles out they had
to stop to shoe one of the horses.
Little did the men dream that the
track where they halted would
one day be known as Hannan-
street, that a statue of Paddy
would be set up near by, and the
town which grew there would be
one of the richest gold-towns in
the world.
Hannan picked up a small
nugget while Flannagan was
shoeing the horse. Later they
found more, and, after letting
another journeyer to Mt. Yuille,
Dan O’Shea, into the secret,
decided it would be more profit-
able not to follow the crowd.
The three men fossicked around
With such success that they
decided to stake a reward-claim,
and Hannan elected to make the
dash for Coolgardie. Only a
quart of water remained, which
he left with his mates, returning
to fill their waterbags when he
found a claypan on the way.
Within an hour of the posting
of his application at the
registrar’s tent, the new “rush”
was on, and all recent arrivals at
the Old Camp were streaming
out towards a newer field of
promise with the name of
Hannan’s. Later the powers that
be were to decide on the name
Kalgoorlie (from “galgurli,” a
native shrub).
The next step in the story of
the eastern goldfields concerns
three men, Charlie De Rose, Bill
Brookman and Sam Pearce, who
were prospecting a “no-hope”
claim called The Boulder (it was
covered with great sandstone
boulders) in Dashwood’s Gully,
South Australia.
One day a friend was talking
to them about the rich strike at
Coolgardie, and shouted: “You
fools! Why don’t you go
to W.A.? The gold sticks out
like raisins in a plum-pudding.”
Only eight days before Paddy
Hannan’s find, Pearce and
Brookman left Adelaide, and
when they reached Coolgardie
followed in Paddy’s footsteps.
Charlie De Rose joined them
later, and the three men became
impressed with an ironstone ridge
south of Hannan’s find.
The carefree “dry-blowers” in
the area were scornful of the
ridge, and when the three formed
a syndicate, with an initial capital
of £l5O, and began pegging
extensive claims which eventually
totalled 2000 acres, the “dry-
blowers” laughingly called it
“Brookman’s Sheep Run.” But
it wasn’t long before Brookman
sent a telegram to Adelaide
reporting the discovery of an
immense ironstone ridge which
he estimated would yield
£250,000-worth of gold.
This proved to be one of
history’s understatements. The
“Sheep Run” is now known to
the world as the “Golden Mile,”
embodying the richest square
mile in Australia, from which has
come more than 840 tons of gold.
The great twin-centres of
Kalgoorlie and Boulder sprang
up overnight. Cab's used to run
between Kalgoorlie and the
Great Boulder Mine (so named
by Brookman after the mine in
South Australia), and the drivers
would shout “Right away to the
Boulder!” So the name came
to be bestowed on the new
residential and business area
which sprouted near the mines.
Meanwhile there were new
finds out of Coolgardie and the
stream of arrivals continued.
Five young men from Queens-
land found the Hole Full of
Gold, from which it is said that
8000 oz. of gold was taken in a
few days. The find, 12 miles
south of Coolgardie, was known
as the Londonderry Mine. It
was sold for £lOO,OOO, and the
company found that only the
shell remained; it had been a
freak pocket of gold for which
no one could account.
At the .Wealth of Nations
Mine, discovered by John Dunn,
20,0000 z. of gold was won at the
outset. Not very long afterwards
Dunn spent a month in the Cool-
gardie lock-up oyer a paltry debt
of £3O.
Many of the finds petered out,
while many enriched the com-
panies which took them over and
not their discoverers. Some gave
no more than food for thought.
The McCann rush was a good
example.
Tn the midsummer of 1895, a
sensational find of alluvial gold
was reported by the morning,
paper, “down south some way.”
A kerosene-tin filled with gold
had been brought into town,
according to the report.
Thousands rushed to Cool-
gardie with wheelbarrows, swags,
buggies, camels and on foot.
A week later the only fresh
news was that a man called Mc-
Cann had reported the find. A
public meeting was called, and
McCann told a good story, full
of lies. A party was sent out with
him, but returned empty-handed.
Thousands of men were fooled,
and thousands of pounds were
spent, many lives were
endangered in quests through
waterless deserts, and not an
ounce of gold was obtained as
a result of the “babblings of a
drunken fool.” McCann was
lucky to escape with his fife from
the wrath of the mob.
A rush founded on surer
reports, but with more disastrous
results, was the Siberia Rush.
The find was located at the far
side of a vast sand-plain where
water was unobtainable. When
it was realised in the new camp
that no water remained, the rush
turned in the opposite direction.
Mr. Renou, in charge of the
Coolgardie water-supply, took
three camels loaded
With water to the camp
and issued a ration of
half a gallon to a man.
After 35 miles a further
supply of water had
been arranged by
Renou, and yet another
25 miles on, to see the
men through to Cool-
gardie.
The road back was
strewn with swags and
abandoned equipment,
and men went mad with thirst
and died in the bush. But it was
due to Renou that this rush was
not one of the darkest of our
goldfields’ records. An early
report claimed that his name
would never be forgotten. If you
ask in Coolgardie today, few
remember him except as the man
who gave his name to one of the
streets. He was, far beyond that,
a man who took life to hundreds
who would otherwise have
perished in the desert.
Water was always the great
problem, from the times when
the pioneers journeyed from
rockhole to rockhole. At first
most of the water came from
meagre wells or condensers set
up at the side of the salt-lakes.
There are stories of
miners who sat at the
wells by the hour, fish-
ing for a miserable
supply with jam-tin and
piece of string, or of
people hanging horse-
shoes in their water to
give it the “body”
missing when water had
been condensed.
The laundry - bills
soared with the cost of
water, and men would
wash in a tumbler of
water from their drink-
ing-bottles. Later, in
Coolgardie, a wash
could be obtained for
2s. 6d., and a shower
for 7s. 6d., in water
which was rather
scented, the explanation
being that the bar-
maid in the hotel
opposite was a very
clean girl and had a
bath every day.
Horses could be seen
just off the main street, licking
the outsides of galvanised tanks
with their parched tongues.
There is also a story of a miner
having a “Coolgardie bath” in
his tent, by pouring the precious
water from one dry-blowing dish
over his body into a second dish.
A willy-willy came along, and
just as the local women had
gathered outside to watch the
“willy,” the miner’s tent went.
Tyler, an early visitor to the
goldfields, left in his Journal
an invaluable record of those
times. He wrote of a “magni-
ficent bath, in the wash-basin,”
that there were no beds available
in the hotel for most, and the
men were lying around on
mattresses, or wrapped in horse-
rugs.
It was a hard and thirsty life.
The mayor, Tyler added,
“honored me by taking a drink,
and was quite prepared to take
another and many others.” He
continued, poor Englishman,
“there are flies all over you, and
you get in a frightful state,” and
he boiled, having discarded his
coat and waistcoat, while watch-
ing the spectacle of the “gold
escort” departing. Then, time
for another “quencher.”
“They don’t use much water
at any time,” he added, “even
when partaking of whisky . . .
water was so scarce at the bars,
the whisky decanter being left on
the counter, whilst the small jug
holding the water was removed
immediately.”
He called this “the land of
flies, sun, sorrow, sore eyes and
Mining Experts,” enlarging on
the theme, that there were three
grades of Liars: “The Liar, the
Liar and the Mining
Expert.”
Those were the days of
“salted” mines, and “wild-cat”
ventures ; of transport problems,
when there were over 600 horse-
teams on roads which were “not
roads in any sense of the term,
the bush and trees had just been
cut down and had gradually
become widened out, as the ruts
became too deep”; of freight
costs as high as £l2O a ton and
even more; of homes made of
hessian or chaff-bags, flattened
kerosene-tins or meat-tins packed
with earth, while the floors were
merely stamped earth; homes
which could be moved around on
a jinker, or hotels with canvas
walls and ceilings, where the
whole place seemed to be on the
move without the aid of a jinker
when the wind blew; of shafts
which had to be descended in
cowhide buckets lowered by rope
and windlass, spinning the
occupant in mid-air “like a spit
before the fire”; of an overnight
rise in price from £5 to £5O for
a horse and of push-cycle mails.
It was at times 146 degrees in
the sun and over 110 in the
shade. Hannan’s was “a beastly
hole,” wrote Tyler. “I don’t
believe any man in the district
has had a real bath for two
years.”
It was a young and rough
country, but not as bad as it had
been pictured. In keeping with
his exhortation that “you must
keep cool in this country,” bad
tempers were the exception, and
mateship and a wonderful spirit
of hospitality were the rule.
The miners, he found, were men
who would feed the visitor
before they would feed them-
selves.
There were many dangers and
setbacks. At Bonnievale, seven
miles north, a miner called
Varischetti was rescued alive
after being trapped nine days in
a flooded mine. In Coolgardie
itself there were disastrous fires
in 1895 and 1897. But most of the
pioneer prospectors were young
and lusty, and the men who
could endure such hardships
while calling their mines the
Seldom Fed, the May B, the Pot
Boiler, the Tucker Bag, or the
Dead Camel, or even the Dead
Finish, were worthy fellows.
Sulky blacks and fever, sand-
flies and blistering heat and the
lack of water did not deter them.
They were diggers, worthy of the
name which was later bestowed
on the nation’s fighting men, and
they loved their recreation.
Old-timers still recall the
camel-races and the “morgue,”
a tent on the outskirts of town,
where those who had celebrated
were allowed to sleep off the
effects without police assistance ;
Dr. Sawell, with an iron shed for
his consulting-room; and, jmore
than all, the spirit which once
prompted these men to give half
and sometimes more of their
scanty water-ration to damp-
down the bags at the doorways,
to cool the air of the humble
camp where one of the nurses
lay ill in childbirth.
One of the most spectacular
figures of the early goldfields was
Canon Edward Mallon Collick,
known as the Fighting Parson.
When he arrived in Albany in
1894 and told the dockers that
he was heading for Coolgardie,
they said: “God help you. The
men are dying like flies from
fever up there.” “That is the
place where I should be,” said
the Canon.
Many are the stories of him
still cherished on the ’fields.
They tell of the occasions when
he would walk home barefoot,
having given his shoes to some-
one more in need ; the “big-feller
treats,” the Christmas feasts
which he regularly arranged for
the natives, who came almost to
worship him; and to him is
credited the old, old story of the
conversation with a little boy
who didn’t know that Christ had
died for him, because “we don’t
take the daily paper.”
Once, when he was in need of
a holiday, because of overwork,
his friends subscribed sufficient
money. He spent it on others.
When they subscribed a second
time, he received a train-ticket
instead of the money.
He formed a men’s club for
debating and boxing, and later
o Continued on next page)


TUCKER & CO.
PTY. LTD.
ESTB. 1838
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
"The Brandy of Distinction”
CAPSTAN
Otd Ttavj?
RUM
u lhe Spirit of the Sugar Cane”
OF
THE CHOICE
ROYALTY
row™
WHOLESALE
DISTRIBUTORS OF
WHISKY
“ 7 he Preferred Whisky ”
BOLS
V.O. GENEVER
and LIQUEURS
"WORLD fAJIOUS SINCE 1575'*
... 1 ■, . ■ . . v
Teach er’s
HIGHLAND CREAM
"Perfection of
. Old Scotch Whisky''.
EXPORT
LAGER BEER
“Lager at its Best'*
opened the first school in
Boulder. And he attended
many funerals. The funerals
were so frequent that the supply
of coffins was exhausted, and it
was not unusual for rough
coffins to be made from packing-
cases bearing such legends as
“Assorted Jams,” or some par-
ticular brand of meat, while on
one occasion a coffin made from
a packing-case was stencilled
with this advice to the guardians
of the hereafter:
Please stow away from boilers,
this side up.
Canon Collick was summed-
up by one of the miners: “He’s a
rich outcrop of golden Christian
deeds and one big deposit of
good works.”
In a similar vein, “Smiler”
Hales, the American journalist
and humorist on the “Miner,”
wrote-up the first. wedding in
Coolgardie:
The bride wore a rich cream quartz-
colored silk, with orange-blossom out-
crops. Miss Hickey was dressed in a
reddish substance, with sandstone-
colored leaders running round the
main body a digger wished
he could get a miner’s-right and apply
for a perpetual lease on the freehold
of this young lady.
Others wore “gold outcrops
running across the breadth of
the face,” “blue trimming all
down the footwall side,”
“diorite-colored stringers,” or “a
rich limestone-colored creation,
relieved at the datum points, near
neck and shoulders,” while “Miss
Smith was arrayed from peg to
peg in a slate-colored material,
Telieved at the throat by a white
quartzite band.” The wedding
was “a howling success,” and
was followed by many others.
Coolgardie flourished after its
early hardships. The “river of
water to flow in the desert,”
suggested to John Forrest in
1895, grew from dream to reality,
and the pipeline from Mundaring
Weir reached Coolgardie in
1902, to be officially opened on
January 4, 1903.
The railway from Perth had
opened in 1896. There was a
land-boom; and not only the
goldfields but the whole State
benefited.
In its first 50 years the popula-
tion of Western Australia had
reached only 29,000. Helped by
the discovery of gold in the
Kimberleys, it had risen to nearly
50,000 in 1892. Four years after
Bayley and Ford had made their
discovery this figure was more
than doubled.
Coolgardie grew from virgin
bush to become the most
important city in the State. A
model town was planned, with
wide streets in the Victorian
style. In 1897 there were over
500 children at the school —of
whom not one had been bom in
Western Australia!
By 1898 there was a popula-
tion of 15,000 within the town
boundary, with 10,000 in the
“suburbs at Burbanks, Bonnie-
vale and Kunanalling.” There
were skating-rinks, two brass-
bands and a Salvation Army
band, two Stock Exchanges, 26
hotels and three breweries, 14
doctors, six dentists, 17 lawyers
and 17 hairdressers, six water-
supply companies and six banks,
and, of course, a host of Mining
Experts.
There were famous cycling
events and band-concerts, horse-
races and the steeplechase.
Many firms had their head-office
at Coolgardie, and only their
branches in Perth and
Kalgoorlie. In 1899 a World
Exhibition was held there, the
only one of its kind ever to be
attempted in the State.
Coolgardie is now a scattered
township. There is a great
greenish dump on the right-hand
side of the road from Kalgoorlie,
which the rain has channelled,
tingeing the surrounding earth
with green; there are hills,
mounds and shafts everywhere,
slopes breaking out in colorful
blisters, red, blue and grey, with
intermediate tonings, and with a
few green bushes and drab grass
in between, and occasional trees.
These are the monuments to its
past glory. The place has a
stony, desolate beauty, almost
ghostly.
In town thqre is a main street
almost intact, with broken streets
and scattered buildings on either
side of it. Some of the pubs are
in ruins, gaunt facades and
tumbled walls, while some are
converted to other uses. Two
are still open. There are still
some fine old public-buildings.
Once, I believe, it was intended
to pull them down, in the way
that the substantial buildings
have gone in most of our mining-
towns, but it was realised that
no useful purpose would be
served by their destruction, and
there they remain as a reminder
of the city which flourished about
them.
I stayed in a room where the
wardrobe hadn’t a lock, and
spent a considerable time in the
bathroom, feeling sorry for the
prospectors who had had to
wash, when possible, out of
bottles. There was a surprisingly
pleasant view from the bathroom
window, of hedges studded with
rainbow flowers, trees and shrubs
in home gardens, and in the
distance blue hills. And at sunset
there were breathtaking scenes
of coconut-ice clouds with
patches of translucent sky
between, the dark horizon and
trees turning to silhouettes.
Near the hotel there is a small
park, unkempt and forlorn, with
a fountain “Erected to the
memory of Mercy Gregory by
her loving friends.” The quality
of Mercy, I am afraid, has
become a little diluted with the
passing of time, a,nd the young
people in the town do not
remember much about her. One
told me that she was murdered
during a visit to Melbourne/ But
old-timers recall that she was
one of the nursing-sisters in the
little tent-hospital in the sad days
of the fever. Her memory has
joined the ranks of “the ghosts
of Bayley-street,” the explorers,
like Ernest Giles, who is buried
in the Coolgardie cemetery, and
the thousands of pioneering
prospectors.
Coolgardie attained great
glory, but even in 1902 the town
was dying. A visitor wrote in
that year: “Everything is
‘Kalgoorlie,’ in fact the booking-’
clerk at Perth looked surprised
when I asked for a ticket. Its
glory has departed and the
people move about like ghosts in
a dull, listless manner.”
By 1904 the population was
down to 4000. And what became
of the thousands who had
sojourned there? Many drifted
to the agricultural areas. In
1900 only 287,000 acres had been
taken-up for agriculture, but four
years later this figure had
increased to 1,466,000. No better
settlers could be imagined than
these hardy men.
Out of its golden beginnings
and the days of wild excitement,
the long years when Coolgardie
remained the centre, and the
real home, for parties probing
into the outback, the haven
where, tired and exhausted and
famished, prospectors would
return to rest, the Old Camp has
come to a more tranquil old age.
Gold is still the main industry
of the town, and there are still
flutters of excitement, like the
phenomenal El Dorado mine of
Messrs. Hart and Morris, where
only a year or so ago a fortune
was unearthed in the Camel
Paddock, , where other pros-
pectors had scratched the earth
for years with little success.
There must still be many a heart
in far corners of this vast country
which at the news of this find
beat a little faster. With
memories of the past, and ail the
glory and all the comradeship
known in lusty youth at the
Old Camp.
COOLGARDIE TO
LEONORA
TT ALGOORLIE is 24 miles
beyond Coolgardie, with
little on the road between. It
was early morning when I neared
the range of hills about
Kalgoorlie. The sky was flushed,
with smudges of smoke on the
horizon.
My first two days were hectic
ones, with friends to be met, and
introductions to be made to
people who promptly busied
themselves making introductions
to other people. I stayed at
first at a hotel where coats had to
be worn in the dining-room;
and at meal-times, with the
temperature near the century, I
would enclose myself in the
leather-jacket which was the
only coat I had with me.
On my third morning one of
my introductions bore fruit, and
the Rector of Boulder phoned
to say that he had heard I was
anxious to make a trip to the
north, and that he would be quite
happy to have my company on
his weekend trip to Leonora,
where he would be conducting
the monthly church services. He
was leaving an hour later.
I had to pack at once and shift
from the hotel to a private room
I had found. When the hotel'
bill was paid, a note was added to
the receipt: “Sorry to see you
going!” I was to realise that
that is the spirit of the goldfields,
and I was not surprised to hear
later of many people who had
come to Kalgoorlie for a few
weeks or a month and had stayed
on. Six months was the danger
period, one chap told me. After
that you had no hope of leaving!
So I went to Leonora with the
Rector of Boulder. He is a tall
Englishman who has been in
Australia with his family only a
short while. From a small green
English parish he came straight
to the vast and farflung byways
of the goldfields. Together in
one weekend we were to cover
several hundred miles, mostly
through almost waterless desert
country.
Not far out of town we heard
strange noises, and spent the
next half-hour searching for one
of the hub-caps. Many hub-
caps are lost on outback roads.
It is odd how a thing as large
as a tea-tray and as deep as a tin-
helmet can hide in country
which has only red earth, a few
straggling trees and bushes, and
no mossy stones!
Most of the mines on the road
north of Kalgoorlie were dis-
covered by prospectors moving
in and out of the Old Camp as
the rains dictated.
“Old Tomd” discovered gold
in 1894 at Kanowna, and the
White Feather rush followed. At
one stage, when some of the
prospectors “did a perish,” they
were reduced to living on mice
which had invaded the camp in a
plague.
In 1898 occurred a famous
hoax, when it became known
that Father Long had seen a
golden nugget, in the shape of a
sickle, which came to be known
as “The Sacred Nugget.”
Started by two men with a
sickle-shaped slug which had
been coated with gold paint, to
get a bit of a laugh on the earnest
priest, the joke got out of hand,
ending with a public meeting ht
which Father Long had to
declare that he had been sworn
to secrecy, but he did divulge
rather vaguely the locality where
the nugget was supposed to have
been found, and one of the
biggest rushes ever ensued, with
bicycles, carts, men, picks and
shovels in one great tangle, but
not a speck of gold was found.
Some asserted that the story
was perpetrated by the local
publicans to bring “grist to their
mill.” Father Long died not
long afterwards of typhoid, and
was lucky not to have died
sooner from more violent causes.
Kanowna was also the scene
of the Cemetery Rush, when a
“lead” was found to continue
through God’s Acre. After a
loud outcry that the reserve
should be opened for mining, a
time was set, and at the falling
of a handkerchief so many
miners surged into the cemetery
and so many claims were pegged
that it took months of litigation
before the mess could be
straightened out.
Once Kanowna was a town
boasting a population of 15,000,
with 16 pubs and almost as many
stores, but the gold petered out.
The “rushes” brought new life
to the town for a while, but now
it is a ghost-town with one
businessman, and during some
weeks perhaps not that many
customers. A few holes in the
ground mark the site of the early
cellars.
The township lies some miles
from the road, and all we saw
was a gate with the name on it.
Of Black Flag, west of the road,
I believe there is nothing left at
all.
At Paddington, named after
one of England’s busiest stations,
and itself once a thriving com-
munity where it was said there
were 23 hotels, only the station
remains, and one or two lonely
and dilapidated huts. From the
station can be seen the tracks in
the bush where the streets were
once surveyed, but, as one old-
timer said, it is all as bare as a
badger now, and it’s as hard to
find anything there as it is to
find feathers on a frog.
At Broad Arrow, the birth-
place of Walter Lindrum, the
bitumen came to an end. Gold
was discovered at this spot in
1893 by young Reison and his
father. In the rush that followed,
prospectors were guided by
broad-arrow marks in the dust.
At one time the town boasted
nine pubs and a brewery. There
is still one hotel, and I believe it
has a sign on the gate: “If this
gate isn’t closed more better it
will be shut.”
The lady we wished to see had
gone away, her neighbor told us
with envy in her voice. She
said it was a Godforsaken spot
and that she didn’t go to church
herself, but it seemed that there
was little to do in Broad Arrow
except to be good.
The Rector said: “I suppose
nothing ever happens here
now!” And she told us of an
old lady who had been burned
out of her cottage only that week,
and of a chap at the local garage
who had recently put a hot pipe
in his pocket, on top of a
detonator.
Going on through those long
stretches of unchanging country,
I couldn’t help recalling the
comment of the Englishman in
Cobbers: “It all seems so
unnecessary! ”
A car doesn’t admit the sound
of the country, the desolate for-
saken rustlings, and the wailing
(Continued on page 34)


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WAXES OFFICES
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 8025 AND BW 1073
L. P. THOEPE, MANAGER.
lun*
a
fc
m
UP TO 25% MORE ENGINE POWER
CHECKS PRE-IGNITION PING.
CORRECTS SPARK PLUG MISFIRING
ELIMINATES STALLING
QUICKER STARTING, FASTER WARM-UP
COMBATS GUM.
Change to
Mobilgas
It will step-up the performance of every
car irrespective of age or make
ml
G54I8 ijjJ
<p.
m
m
M
oNS
Q\J0
$10,
po
Mobilgas
Mobrlubricoti
MotJiW"
"•Obilgo*
0
sign
Flying Red Horse
Going to "The Prairies"
by
Thargaret
Trist
THE place was called The
Prairies and was inhabited
by old Mrs. Buzacott, old
Mr. Buzacott, somebody’s
Aunt Emma and men with manly
names such as Tom and Bill and
Dan. A number of people lived
at The Prairies, and they were
of the utmost importance, as
Gertrude and Sooky had never
set eyes on them before.
The Prairies was to be their
Sunday visit. The whole day,
with church thrown in on the
way for good measure.
“What a nuisance,” said
Mother when Father told them.
“Couldn’t we go somewhere for
a change?”
Father, who found these
remarks of Mother’s incompre-
hensible, stamped off. Then
Mother reeled off all the
beautiful names dizzily and
clutched her head.
Gertrude and Sooky went
over the names in the intervening
da y s -
“They won’t live,” said
Gertrude despairingly.
Never mind,” answered
Sooky. “They will when we see
them. Old Mrs. Buzacott. Old
Mrs. Buzacott. Her top lip will
be prickly when she kisses us.”
“She mightn’t kiss us,”
Gertrude sounded hopeful.
“She will. They always do.
It is best to go straight up like
this,” Sooky screwed her thin,
froglike mouth into a crinkled
rosette, and get it over.”
Gertrude stared at her thought-
.Iy- I think you have the
mind of philosophic cast Miss
Elmer often speaks about.”
I have, ’ Sooky answered
unhesitatingly, “but Miss Elmer
think so when it comes
one is tiresome and unneces-
sary. Here we are twelve and
eleven and still dragging
a governess around
with us. Will we ever
get rid of her?”
“She’s settled-in for
life. Mother couldn’t
do without her.”
“Mother isn’t a child
any longer. She should
stand on her own feet. Of what
use is Miss Elmer, anyway?”
“She’s a protection against
Father. Father doesn’t under-
stand Mother. He is of the soil
and she is cultivated.”
“Where did you hear that?”
“Granny.”
Gertrude’s brows puckered.
“Will it come to anything, do
you think?”
“Possibly not. They’ll stick
it for our sake. But a divorce
would be interesting. Then we
could go in a home.”
“What nonsense! Children
with as many relations as we
have don’t have a chance of
being put in a home.”
“My imagination ran away
with me again,” Sooky admitted
cheerfully. “Still, one must look
on the bright side. Whole
families have been wiped out
before today by plagues and
things.”
“Plagues!” said Gertrude
scornfully. “Why, we never even
have an interesting illness in the
family. Let’s talk about the
Buzacotts. There’s old Mrs.
Buzacott, old Mr. Buzacott”
“Buzacott. Isn’t it a nice
name? It smells like something.”
“Honey,” Gertrude answered
promptly.
“Oh, Gertrude, you’re
wonderful! ” exclaimed Sooky.
A/TISS ELMER wandered into
the kitchen with a nosegay
of pansies and maidenhair she
had picked.
“A re the
children at their
a ri thmetic?”
asked Mother.
“I put them to
it,” answered Miss
Elmer, “but I
doubt if they are
at it. They’re
worked up again.”
“What are they worked up
about now, pray?”
“The Buzacotts.”
Mother pushed the name
impatiently aside. “No one told
me before I had children that
they worked up so easily,” she
said plaintively.
TT was acknowledged that
A Gertrude in her white voile
with the pink sash and her
flower-wreathed straw hat
looked a picture. Her crinkly
red-brown hair strayed in
tendrils from beneath the hat-
brim and her skin had a faint
pink transparency against the
white of her frock.
Sooky’s clothes were identical,
but somehow her hat went
straight down on her head and
her dress had the appearance of
being held on to her with the
sash. Her arms and legs thrust
downward gawkily, their scaly
brownness a shocking contrast
to the starched white. No one
ever mentioned what Sooky
looked like in her best. But
having lived with herself for
eleven years she no longer
minded. Beauty was only skin-
deep. The inner-life counted.
Somewhere floating above her
liver was her soul, a shimmering
iridescent bubble, the beauty of
which would have left her rela-
tives speechless if they could
have but seen it.
was at eleven-
o’clock in the small church
at the junction of their road with
the main road near the river.
Usually Gertrude and Sooky
found church enough satisfac-
tion to last all Sunday, but today
they wanted to be done with it.
Besides, the minister was new
and failed to have “Onward
Christian Soldiers,” Sooky’s
favorite hymn, and put her
second favorite, “Fight the Good
Fight,” to a different tune. Then
he took the text for his sermon
from the New Testament; she
preferred texts from the Old.
All in all it wasn’t a success—
“flat church” as Gertrude called
it.
Gertrude sat in her usual
church manner, her hands clasp-
ing her prayer-book, looking like
one of the figures in the stained-
glass windows in the big church
in town. This air of being about
to take her place with the saints
worried Mother. Sooky endured
stoically. She was so outwardly
placid, with so little tendency to
wriggle, that Mother kept look-
ing at her sharply wondering if
she was sickening for something.
Then it was over. Father and
Mother and Miss Elmer would
stay and talk to people outside.
Gertrude and Sooky stood apart
and looked at other girls in white
voile dresses and flower-
Wreathed hats. They amused
themselves picking out which
dresses were catalogue and which
made in the proper way at home.
“We could go and talk to those
girls,” said Gertrude.
“We could,” acknowledged
Sooky. “But we’re going to
Buzacott’s.”
“Anyway, they’re not interest-
ing girls.”
“No; most ordinary.”
“We’ll never get there,”
mourned Gertrude, pointing
towards Father, who had his
hands in his pockets, one foot
on a tombstone and the appear-
ance of being prepared to stand
talking all day.
“Go and drag him away,”
urged Sooky.
“What, by myself! Walk right
over there by myself!”
“No one will eat you.”
“You come.”
“No ; you know Father some-
times looks at me askance in
company.”
“That’s an excuse,” said
Gertrude hotly.
“It is not. I’m as brave as
anybody. Think how dreadful it
will be for me standing here
alone.”
Gertrude took two steps and
fell back. “I can’t do it.”
“But we must get to Buza-
cott’s. It’s becoming desperate.
They may all go out thinking
we’re not coming.”
“Oh, all right.” Gertrude,
making herself as tall as she
could, went towards her father.
She plucked at his sleeve.
“Buzacott’s,” she whispered
fiercely.
{Continued on page 34)
THE BALL OF STRING
Your destiny’s to be cut up
and twisted into actual knots
not too spectacular but apt.
There is a meaning to these acts*
you serve an end but do not know
or care about the meantime while
squat-brown in study—perhaps grow
into a dream to stretch a mile.
Where’s the ambition, then, in that—
your meaning lost to hold together
somebody’s books or coat or hat?
Anyone has such dreams—to slither
out of his knots and take the rap-
anyone wills himself mile-high
but still the shears snip, cut him up:
anyone’s destiny's to die.
But I: can I be seen as plain
of purpose as this ball of string?
Is it my end to run around,
embrace the surface of each thing
in a sufficient loop and serve
unquestioning a master power;
coiled piecemeal, put aside to save
for further odd-jobs in a drawer?
The hands of the accounting clock
predestinate by moving day
to hold together parcels; seek
a purpose that will pay my way,
not the real purpose which I own:
to live creatively, or sing—
all mile-high dreams are deeds undone;
one is, in fact, a ball of string.
N.Z.
LOUIS JOHNSON.


m
S>
mmam
m
|pjiE^P
m
%gpp UoWi duld/wi
i*i Stamuui
CLOTHES
• . . because Stamina clothes give
protection all the year round
Made exclusively from pure-wool, specially-woven
cloth, they provide youngsters with that extra,
natural warmth they need in winter ... warmth
that guards them against coughs, colds and
influenza.
But children need Stamina protection in warmer
months, too. It is so easy for them to catch colds
on changeable spring and summer days. The Pure
Wool Crusader cloth from which all Stamina
clothes are made is a scientific insulation. So, no
matter how over-heated they become from running
around, Stamina ensures that they cool off slowly,
naturally, healthily.
Remember, too, that Stamina clothes are made
better, made stronger ... and cost less .
ASK FOR
Stamina
SCHOOL WEAR
K.B AND RANGER KNICKERS • BOYS' SUITS • GIRLS' TUNICS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
5W1.113
Public Notice
WE, TRANULI KOKANIS and my
daughter VALENTINA KOKANIS, of
Greek nationality, both bom at Con-
stanza, Roumania, and my wife, MARIA
KOKANIS, bom at A jut, Roumania, all
resident 5 years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 51 Underwood Street, Paddington,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
LAVINA
Watches of fashion
,
i
Choice of Millions since 1852
L 31.62
A Lavina Watch
is not only the'per-
fect timepiece, but
also an odornment, a
p piece of jewellery
P* for the cur-
rent mode.
Here are shown two
of the latest Lavina
models that conform to
the trend of daintier
watches for ladies and
larger watches for men.
Ask at your favourite
jewellers or watchmakers
to see the newest Lavina
17-jewelled Swiss Master-
piece.
Laima Prices range from:
Men’s— £l4/5/-; Ladies’—
£l4/10/-.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Ewart’s Flora of
Victoria and Tovey’s Companion to
Beethoven’s Pianoforte Sonatas.
5993.
To buy copy of The Barbizan
Painters. —5992.
Information Sought
Some information on composer
Vincent Youmans ?
Bom in New York on Sept. 27,
1898, he enlisted in the U.S. Navy
in World War I; musical from child-
hood, he was assigned to entertain-
ment units at Great Lakes training-
station, where he began to compose.
After the waf he entered a music-
publishing house in New York; his
first musical comedy, “Two Little
Girls in Blue,” was produced in 1921.
With the success of his musicals he
became his own producer; in 1933
he went to Hollywood to create
music for motion-pictures. He died
at Denver (Colorado) on April 5,
1946. Besides “Two Little Girls
in Blue,” his musical ‘ comedies
were “Wildflowar,” “No! No!
Nanette,” “Oh, Please,” “Hit the
Deck,” “Great Day,” “Through the
Years” and “Smilin’ Through.” His
better-known songs included- “Tea
for Two,” “Bambalina,” “Without a
Song,” “Carioca,” “Flying Down to
Rio,” “Time on My Hands,”
“Through the Years,” “Oh, Me, Oh,
My, Oh, You” and “I Want to Be
Happy.”
* * * *
Meaning of “Mizpah; ” carved on
some boomerangs?
Hebrew word for “watchtower” or
“beacon,” and the name of several
towns in ancient Palestine. It is used
as a parting salutation, as in Genesis
31 : 49—“ And Mizpah; for he said,
The Lord watch between me and
thee, when we are absent one from
another.” It is also used as a
talismanic inscription on rings.
* * * *
(1) Gauge of railway-systems of the
various States ? (2) Total mileage of
the different State railway-systems?
(1) N.S.W., 4ft. B£in.; Victoria,
sft. 3in.; Queensland, W.A. and
Tasmania, 3ft. 6in.; S.A., 3ft. 6in.
and sft. 3in.; N.T., 3ft. 6in. Some
of the States have smaller sections
of rail of other gauges than those
listed. (2) Mileage of Government
lines and of private railways open
for general traffic at June 30, 1950
(excluding private lines used for
special traffic): N.S.W., 6161 4ft.
84in., 243 sft. 3in„ 37 3ft. 6in.;
Vic., 4344 sft. 3in., 115 2ft. 6in.;
Q., 6510 3ft. 6in„ 116 2ft., 69
4ft. B£in.; S.A. and N.T., 2163
3ft. 6in. (including 316 miles Darwin-
Birdum), 1529 sft. 3in., 654 4ft. B|in.;
W.A., 4529 3ft. 6in., 454 4ft. Biin.;
Tas., 723 3ft. 6in., 7 2ft.; A.C.T.,
5 4ft. B*in.
* * * # [
Some details of the Mt. Rennie
case ?
In Sept., 1886, Mary Jane Hicks, a
servant-girl, alleged that she had been
raped by a number of men in the bush
at Mt. Rennie, Waterloo (N.S.W.).
She alleged she had been taken to a
lonely spot there against her will by
a cab-driver. Police rounded-up 13
suspects, two arrested at Bourke. At
police-court proceedings four were
acquitted, and the remaining nine
committed for trial. At the criminal
court there was a great deal of con-
flicting evidence on the question of
identity, and there was considerable
criticism of the judge’s handling of
the case. Some of the sittings were
incredibly long—lB£ hours one day,
14£ hours another. After deliberating
for two hours the jury acquitted three
of the defendants and found the other
six guilty, recommending mercy on
the ground of their youth. Of the six
only one did not appeal; however,
all were sentenced to be hanged, the
sentences being carried out early in
January, 1887. Several petitions had
been circulated demanding a reprieve,
and The Bulletin (J. F. Archibald
taking a great interest in the case)
issued a special number on Christmas
Eve, 1886, with a fine cartoon by
Hop (“The Gallows and the Cross”)
protesting against the hanging of the
men on what was virtually the
uncorroborated evidence of the girl.
While admitting that “the outrage
was inhuman and brutal,” The
Bulletin claimed that the girl’s
antecedents weren’t considered, it
being alleged that she was a
willing party, at least at the begin-
ning. The cab-driver, Sweetman, was
subsequently charged with condoning
the offence, and was sentenced to two
floggings and 14 years’ imprisonment.
* * * *
Is a batsman allowed to take
“ centre” outside the popping-crease ?
There is nothing in the Laws of
Cricket relating to the matter. It is
considered quite within the rules for a
batsman to take strike outside the
crease; but the disadvantages out-
weigh any benefits, and it is not
often done. In the “bodyline”
days, it is said, Bradman tried to
counter Larwood b'y taking strike
outside the crease. It is not, of
course, necessary to take “centre”;
one can take block in front of either
leg- or off-stumps, both inside or
outside the crease. Here, again, the
drawbacks usually exceed the advan-
tages conferred.
* * * *
List of Governors of Tasmania?
Lieut. John Bowen (Sept. 12, 1803-
Feb. 16, 1804); Col. David Collins,
Lieut.-Gov. (Feb. 16, 1804-Mar. 24,
1810); Lieut. E. Lord (Mar. 24,
1810-July 8, 1810); Capt. Murray
(July 8, 1810-Feb. 20, 1812); Lt.-Col.
Geils (Feb. 20, 1812-Feb. 4, 1813);
Col. Thomas Davey, Lieut.-Gov.
(Feb. 4, 1813-April 9, 1817); Col.
William Sorell, Lt.-Gov. (April 9,
1817-May 14, 1824); Col. George
Arthur, Lieut.-Gov. (May 14, 1824-
Oct. 30, 1836); Lt.-Col. K. Snodgrass,
Act. Lt.-Gov. (Oct. 31, 1836-Jan. 5,
1837); Sir John Franklin, Lt.-Gov.
(Jan. 6, 1837-Aug. 21, 1843); Sir
J. E. Wilmot, Lt.-Gov. (Aug. 21,
1843-Oct. 13, 1846); C. J. LaTrobe,
Administrator (Oct. 13, 1846-Jan.
25, 1847); Sir W. T. Denison,
Lt.-Gov. (Jan, 26, 1847-Jan. 8, 1855);
Sir Henry Fox Young (Jan. 8, 1855-
Dec. 10, 1861); Col. (afterwards Sir)
T. Gore Browne, Gov.-in-Chief (Dec.
10, 1861-Dec. 30, 1868); Lt.-Col.
W. C. Trevor, Admin. (Dec. 30, 1868-
Jan. 15, 1869); Sir C. du Cane,
Governor and Com.-in-Chief (Jan.
15, 1869-Nov. 28, 1874); Sir F.
Smith, Admin. (Nov. 30, 1874-Jan.
13, 1875); Sir Fredk. Weld, Gov.
and Com.-in-Chief (Jan. 13, 1875-
April 5, 1880); Lt.-Gen. Sir J. H.
Lefroy, Admin. (Oct. 21, 1880-Dec. 7,
1881); Sir G. C. Strahan (Dec. 7,
1881-Oct. 28, 1886); W. R. Giblin,
Admin. (Oct. 29, 1886-Nov. 18,
1886); Sir W. L. Dobson, Admin.
(Nov. 18, 1886-Mar. 11, 1887); Sir
R. G. Hamilton (Mar. 11, 1887-Nov.
30, 1892); Sir W. L. Dobson, Admin.
(Nov. 30, 1892-Aug. 8, 1893);
Viscount Gormanston (Aug. 8, 1893-
Aug. 14, 1900); Sir John Dodds,
Admin. (Aug. 14, 1900-Nov. 8, 1901);
Sir A. E. Havelock (Nov. 8, 1901-
April 16, 1904); Sir J. Dodds,
Lt.-Gov. (April 16, 1904-Oct. 28,
1904); Sir Gerald Strickland (Oct.
28, 1904-May 20, 1909); Sir J. Dodds
(May 20, 1909-Sept. 29, 1909); Sir
H. Barron (Sept. 29, 1909-Mar. 8,
1913); Sir J. Dodds (Mar. 9, 1913-
June 5, 1913); Sir William Macartney
(June 6, 1913-Mar. 31, 1917); Sir
Herbert Nicholls, Admin. (April 1,
1917-July 6, 1917); Sir F. A. Newdi-
gate Newdegate (July 6, 1917-Feb. 9,
1920); Sir H. Nicholls, Admin. (Feb.
9, 1920-April 16, 1920); Sir W. L.
Allardyce (April 16, 1920-Jan. 27,
1922); Sir H. Nicholls, Admin. (Jan,
27, 1922-Nov. 30, 1923); Hon. Nor-
man Ewing, Admin. (Nov. 30, 1923-
June 13, 1924); Sir H. Nicholls,
Admin. (June 13, 1924-Dec. 23,
1924); Sir James O’Grady (Dec. 23,
1924-Dec. 23, 1930); Sir H. Nicholls,
Admin. (Dec. 23, 1930-Aug. 4, 1933);
Sir E. Clark (Aug. 4, 1933-Aug. 4,
1945); Sir J. D. Morris, Admin. (July
20, 1945-Dec. 24, 1945); Admiral Sir
Hugh Binney (Dec. 24, 1945-May 8,
1951); Sir J. D. Morris, Admm.
(Mqy 9, 1951-Aug. 22, 1951); Sir
Ronald Gross (Aug. 23, 1951- ).
Brief Answers
L.P.: Write Longmans, Green and
Co., Ltd., 531 Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.... M.N.: Write Wyatt
and Watts Pty., Ltd., Publishers
Representatives, 129 Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne R. 8.: Acceptance by
N. S. Wales of a Federal offer to
subsidise the tick-eradication pro-
gramme for the next three years to
£820,000 was announced on July 7,
1954.,. .W.J.E.: References to the
writings of Kenneth Mackenzie
appeared in The Bulletin as follows:,
Article on Mackenzie, January 19,
1938; reviews: Our Earth, March 10,
1937; The Young Desire It, November
10, 1937; Chosen People, October 12,
1938; Moonlit Doorway, November
29, 1944; Dead Men Rising, February
20, 1952; and The Refuge, March
24, 1954. A comment by Norman
Lindsay on Our Earth appeared in
the issue of August 25, 1937
E.D.: Australian Aboriginal Words
and Their Meanings by H. M. Cooper,
published by South Australian
Museum, Adelaide W.N.: Long
Range Weather Forecasting by G. W.
Nowland, published by the author at
95 Barker-street, Casino (N.S.W.).
. ...8.F.: Imminent Summer by
Nancy Keesing was published by the
Lyre Bird Writers, Sydney, in 1951.
C.R.: The poem “The Fall of
Patrick Dooley” was written by
E. J. Dempsey, and appears in The
Bulletin Reciter. .. .E.J.F.: Yarran-
gobilly means “flowing stream”;
Gerringong, “place of peril”;
Girilambone, “place where flint stones
are found”; Eumungerie, “tree”;
Coolangatta, “good lookout”;
Minnamurra, “plenty of fish”;
Mullumbimby, “small round hill.”
F.H.C.: (1) Flag is run to top
of flagpole and then lowered to half-
mast. (2) Yes... .C.M.A.: Can’t
say without having seen the bottle.


It Sure Has Its Moments
Police Rounds
By C. McNEIL
/*] BOUT 7.30 p.m. in one
f \ of Sydney’s big morning-
I newspaper offices a young
man takes off his coat
and settles down at a long table.
On it are four telephones, a
microphone and five types of
radio.
The young man reads through
a message-pad to bring himself
up to date. He glances at the
dial of one of the radios to see
that it is dead on the beam.
Then he waits.
For seven and a half hours
he will listen-in on the city’s
violence and crime. Then he
will put his hat on and be driven
home to sleep. Late next morn-
ing he will get up and go off
to the University, where he’s
doing an Arts course.
The young man is the news-
paper’s police-rounds desk-man.
He is something relatively
modern to journalism and is a
by-product of high-pressure
news-gathering.
There was a time —lately
retired C. 1.8. chief Superin-
tendant J. Ramus regrets
it has passed—when police-
constables walked their beats, or
patrolled on pushbikes. Mr.
Ramus believes that they prob-
ably saw more as they passed
slowly through the city than
their counterparts do in the cars
of today. Also, the policeman
walking the beat tended to make
more contacts. As he moved
along, people sometimes came
up and told him things.
And to keep in touch the
police-rounds part of the news-
papers then moved no quicker.
There was no need ; no need
for the desk-man, either.
In those days a paper’s
roundsman would walk to
police headquarters. He would
yarn for a while to the desk-
sergeant and then move on to
Sydney Hospital. If there was
nothing doing in Casualty he
would stroll up Castlereagh-
street to fire-brigade head-
quarters. There he would meet
his colleagues from the other
papers and two of them might
go off for a game of snooker
while the third covered for
them. Later they would tele-
phone some of the important
centres of their round. If there
was nothing doing they would
make their way back to their
offices.
If a fire happened things were
different. The roundsmen rode
to fires on the back of the fire-
engines, a practice which ended
one night when a newsgatherer
kept going along Castlereagh-
street as the engine and the
rest of its cargo made the
screaming right-angle turn into
Market-street.
There was violent crime,
plenty of it, but the criminals
moved at a slower pace; as did
the police and the roundsmen.
The tempo has wound-up.
Newspapers are still only one
jump behind the police and* the
criminals, but everyone is
running faster.
One result is the .desk-man—
a journalist, mind you—who, at
work, looks like the engineer in
a broadcasting-studio. Ringing
every police-station, hospitals,
ambulances, the railway and the
airport, he learns soon to use
two phones at once.
Through the microphone at
his elbow he can talk to any of
the office’s cars as they cruise
about the city. These cars have
two-way radio. The reporter in
one of them may dictate one
story to the office while the car
is speeding to the scene of
another. A recent refinement
allows photographers to trans-
mit photographs straight to the
office dark-room by radio.
On his long table the desk-
man has four other radios, three
of them tuned to pick up fire-
brigade-, ambulance- and air-
craft-calls. The last set, an
ordinary mantel-model, is the
real nerve-centre of the place.
Tuned on the right beam, it
picks up police messages.
Listeners often strike these
strange messages on their sets
at home when looking for some
decent music. If they follow
the natural tendency to sticky-
beak and listen-in for a while
they will note that, while the
messages have a definite form,
their meaning is often vague.
The sort of thing they might
hear could be: “Message 27 to
car 19, to the corner of Daisy-
and Tulip-streets, signal 12,
information number 18, time
8.58.”
A bit of that sort of thing
and the listener switches away.
But the desk-man would be able
to put the jigsaw-puzzle of code
and plain language together,
into some such intelligence as
this: An armed hold-up has
been reported at Daisy- and
Tulip-streets, Vaucluse; an
ordinary P.D. car has been sent
to investigate; therefore, the
police, for some reason, are
treating the importance of the
job with some reserve.
No panic-merchant, the desk-
man bides his time, ringing his
round, listening to the radio.
Then if he hears “Message 28,
to car 1, see car 19, re message
27” he switches on his micro-
phone and tells the roundsman
out in the car that he had better
go out to Daisy- and Tulip-
streets, Vaucluse. An armed
hold-up. The P.D. car had just
called for detectives. A familiar
voice crackles back: “We’re on
the way.”
A good desk-man can tell you
a lot about a particular job
merely by listening to the mes-
sages. From the vehicle-num-
bers he can tell you the car’s
base-station, or whether it is a
“trawler” (black-maria), a P.D.
car, a carload of scientific
experts, or a truck which is
always loaded with gear to
rescue people who have gone
over cliffs.
Another part of the messages
gives the type of crime. The
code used covers everything in
the Ten Commandments and
some hundreds of other felonies
and circumstances. One code-
number stands for “pregnant.”
Old hands among the rounds-
men have yet to hear it broad-
cast.
Sometimes (usually during
the day) extraneous matter
creeps into these codified mes-
sages of crime and misfortune.
Without any preamble the police-
radio might say “Compton is
out.” And police in their cars,
their stations, or in launches on
the harbor go about their tasks
with lighter hearts.
The two-way radio-system,
which gets a paper’s roundsman
on to the scene of jobs very
swiftly, can have its drawbacks.
A very hefty roundsman once
found himself opening his car-
door in an ill-lit street a few
moments before the police
arrived. There was just enough
light for him to see the knife-
blade glitter as one man lunged
at the other and missed.
The roundsman was a first-
grade Rugby Union player on
Saturday afternoons. He made
what the police, then arriving,
still consider a glorious flying-
tackle. They found him seated
on the man who had been
waving the knife.
When seemingly big jobs
break, calling for more than one
office-car, needing a lot of
reporters and a lot of photo-
graphers, an executive of the
paper might take over from the
desk-man. There are all sorts
of executives.
Some of them tend to become
excited if something big breaks
just when they need it, when the
paper, deadline approaching,
yawns a practically empty book.
On one such night a message
came over which suggested that
a home-made bomb had been
exploded in front of the home
of a high-ranking policeman.
The rounds-car was scarcely on
its way when another bombing
was reported in another suburb.
An executive took over. The
second car sped off from the
office and had not quite reached
top-gear when the report of a
third bombing, this time in a
northern suburb, came in. 1 The
executive was beside himself
with delight. He gave the third
car its directions. Then he had
to wait. Half an hour passed,
and then the first car radioed in:
“It’s a hunger in a letter-box.
Kids. No bomb, no story.”
Five minutes more and the
second car told the same sad
story. The executive looked a
broken man, and then the third
car reported that it couldn’t
even find a hunger in a letter-
box.
“Where are you now?” the
executive panted.
“Chatswood,” the car replied.
“Well” —this is verbatim —
“keep plunging northwards,”
said the executive.
Off he went, beaten, empty-
handed, to his news-conference.
A little later the desk-man heard
a growl on his receiver: “Where
the hell does he want me to
stop—Cairns?”
There is no such thing as a
typical shift for the roundsman
out in the car. He might cruise
around all night without a job.
Wet nights are usually like this.
The rate of minor accidents
jumps high, but the criminal,
like most other people, likes to
stay at home if it is raining.
Other times, within minutes,
the roundsman can get a pile-up
of several jobs in widely
separated suburbs. If they are
big enough he will call for
assistance. If not, he will treat
them on their merits, in turn.
He never knows at one
moment what is going to happen
at the next.
From helping police pull a
body up over a cliff he may
go to see the evicted family of
eight camped in the park with
all their possessions. He might
find a truck whose engine has
been driven back through the
driver by a tree, or an old lady
whose Pomeranian barked when
the house caught fire. Finally,
he might have to call in at the
eisteddfod office 10 minutes be-
fore edition-time to pick up the
results of the under-12 toe-
dancing section.
One of his side-jobs is cover-
ing the vagaries of the weather.
Comes a sudden thunderstorm
which drenches theatre crowds.
He is in it. A pocket-cyclone
smashes little craft on the water.
He loses his hat on the job. The
weather can have odd indirect
effects, and he looks for these
more than for the actual
thunderstrokes.
A roundsman doing the day-
shift got a report one morning
that water from a flooded
stormwater-channel in an out-
lying suburb had risen in several
homes. It seemed hardly worth
while going all that way, but
the round was quiet. He went.
It seemed fairly routine.
Householders had woken with
a foot of water in their bed-
rooms. One, a stronger sleeper,
had come-to when his car-horn
sounded as the water shorted his
ignition. The women were
upset. Their carpets were
ruined.
The roundsman was thinking
of getting back to the office
when the woman he was inter-
viewing remarked, “I wouldn’t
mind so much if it wasn’t for
the rats.”
“Oh,” he said.
She told him that the rats,
huge water-rats the size, of young
cats, lived in th,e stormwater-
channel amid a jungle of reeds
which choked it. The people
had complained to the council
without doing any good. When
it rained the rats came out of
their jungle.
The woman had woken-up
that morning to see rats looking
in her windows, scrambling in
hundreds on her window-ledges,
running up and down the eaves
and hanging from the branches
of young citrus-trees in her
garden.
Dead-scared herself, but
frightened more for her children,
she had gone out into the yard
waving a coat at the rats. They
had danced around her . . .
The roundsman’s side-jobs
often take him to the water.
There might be a small
smuggling job, a shark case, or
a rescue.
Late one wild night off Dee
Why a man and his wife were
drifting on to rocks in a yacht
with a dead motor. A big
police-launch was sent out from
the harbor. Lifesavers from the
near-by beaches arrived from a
dance, some of them still in
tuxedoes.
They launched a lifeboat and
took it out somehow through
pile-driving breakers and put a
rope on to the yacht. The life-
savers soon had it clear of the
rocks, but then the off-shore
wind caught both boats and took
them out to sea. It looked bad.
When the police-launch found
the boats they were two miles
out.
The big launch took them in
tow, took off all the people, and
started making back for the
harbor. On the way the seas
swamped the lifeboat, which
broke adrift and was lost. The
roundsman sent in his story, and
there it rested until next day, a
Saturday.
Searching for news, one of
the Sunday papers decided that
the lifesavers, who had risked
everything, should at least get a
new boat for the one they had
lost. The paper telephoned a
well-known philanthropist. He
did not even ask the price of a
lifeboat. He just said: “Tell
’em to send me the bill.”
On Saturday night that Sun-
day paper’s first city-edition
came out with a story to say
that the philanthropist had
bought the lifesavers a new
boat.
But in the same edition of a
rival paper was a big story that
it would run a fund to buy a new
boat for the lifesavers. A list
of subscriptions was already in
hand.
This checkmate between the
papers lasted for two editions
before the rival paper rewrote
its story —the lifesavers would
actually need two boats, and its
fund was for the second.
While the papers thus fought
for the honor, the roundsman
who had started it all with a bit
of graphic prose, which came to
him seated on the cliff-top
watching the rescue, stood
watching a warehouse burn
down, scribbling copy on this
other story in the red glare.
Shark-stories are not pleasant
to handle, because the victim
rarely lives. One of them did.
A New Australian, he had
picked a part of Long Reef
where professional fishermen
clean their catch to go spear-
fishing. He had spotted a big
groper and was on its track 6ft.
down when he had an odd feel-
ing that someone was looking
at him.
He turned around: the shark
was 2ft. behind him, with its
mouth open. He pushed his
spear-gun, straight-arm fashion,
into the gaping mouth, and
when the shark’s teeth closed
they reached his elbow. Down
under the water the shark shook
him around. Then it opened its
mouth, and as he threshed
through the water the New Aus-
tralian saw his crumpled spear-
gun dropping down to the sand.
It took 30 stitches to put his
arm into shape. Still smelling of
ether in his hospital-bed, the
New Australian said he would
be spear-fishing again when he
was we 11...
When he steps out from his
car on the scene of any job the
roundsman usually has an open
mind on it. His information will
be only slight. He may know
what has happened, but the cir-
cumstances of how and why it
happened he does not know at
all.
Take a shooting. The call
came over that a man had been
shot in a park at Randwick.
When the roundsman got there
everything seemed to be over.
He looked around for some-
thing to start on, and saw a
couple of detectives he knew. He
learned that soipe people had
been holding a political meet-
ing. Things became a bit excit-
ing, and one man had shot
another. The man who had
fired the shots had bolted and
dived into a taxi and this had
disappeared into the traffic. The
man shot was in hospital.
The roundsman jotted down
the brief facts and walked over
to a group of locals and police
who were moving up and down
part of the park looking for
spent cartridges. One of the
locals, the roundsman found,
had been walking through the
park at the time of the shoot-
ing. He took down this man’s
name and address and then every
little detail he said—the group
sitting talking, becoming angry,
gesticulating, one man aiming a
kick at another, a man reaching
into his shirt-front for something
that turned out to be a gun, the
gun going off, the escape. This
was color. The quotes would
bring the facts up into life.
The roundsman learned later
that a man had been arrested
for the shooting and he went
off to the police-station to com-
plete the story. He found the
o Continued on page 34)


I
k &mmk
'o ok-bo ring qTj&k
iiiHHrT
'-HOLE DlfifiEDi^"
XW*
Rook-
m
POST-HOLE DIGGER
jr/rff
by
WESTERN IMPLEMENT CO. LTD.
The Company is well known to you all as a pioneer in
the field of rock-boring post-hole diggers. By its sincere
efforts, truth in advertising and its service, the Company
has made popular post-hole diggers capable of penetrat-
ing rock and concrere. It has always acted on the guaran-
tee that the purchaser will get his money back if the
implement will not do what is claimed for it. Our slogan
6 No bore—No buy 9
The Company now presents without hesitation, and under
the same guarantee
The “Rockmaster"
ROCK-BORING POST-HOLE DIGGERS.
A Digger so far advanced that it
could only have been designed by a
Company with experience and prac-
tical knowledge gained over years.
• GEARS RUN IN SEPARATE OIL BATH.
• SELF-OILING MAIN SHAFT.
0 2-STAGE AND 8-POINT CUTTER TO
OFFSET SHOCK.
• FRICTION RELEASE CLUTCH—MEANS
SAFETY FIRST.
• DESIGNED TO MINIMISE BREAKAGES
AND WEAR.
Sole Distributors:
WESTERN IMPLEMENT
CO., LTD.
The “Rockmaster” has no connection with any
other make of post-hole digger.
974 PORT ROAD, WOODVILLE, S.A.
Business hours,
Phone:
M 6258.
After hours,
C. H. Lines.
ML6357.
“Cricket Year Book," 17th Edition—s/- plus 9d. postage.
“Watson's Index to the Laws of Cricket”—2/6 plus sd. postage.
“Family Health” —1/- plus 3d. postage.
M.C.C. Cricket Souvenir Programme—2/- plus 3d. postage.
“Coronation Cookery Book”— 8/- plus 1/r postage.
V. C. DAVIS AND COMPANY,
A.M.P. Building, 40 Miller Street, North Sydney. XB 5821.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Prince Cortauld’s runaway
success in Caulfield’s mile w.f.a.
Orr Stakes brings him right into
the picture for the A.J.C. Don-
caster Handicap and the w.f.a.
contests of autumn in Mel-
bourne and in Sydney. He is
talked about as a strong rival for
Rising Fast. If Rising Fast
returns to his spring form the
first clash with Prince Cortauld
will draw extra thousands. It
will most likely be at Moonee
Valley in the £5150 Alister
Clark Stakes, 1| mile, on
February 26. Maximum weight
is 9.7. Prince Cortauld has now
won £24,016 from 16 wins and
six placings in 29 starts.
Form horses won half the
Rosehill programme, and in the
opening events takers of odds
did much better than they had
bargained for, because book-
makers took risks with New
Slipper and Kingster, both far
above rivals from the form
angle. In the case of Kingster
it was farcical (as said in B.
2/2/’55) for two others to have
been called upon to concede a
winner of the A.J.C. Breeders’
Plate 61b. weight. Ultrablue,
winner of the Gimcrack Stakes,
wasn’t quite wound-up for her
engagement against New Slipper,
but her third placing indicated
an early return to the winning-
list. Lady Doro and Cragsley,
both form horses, won.
Crack two-year-old filly New
Slipper, winner at each of her
last four starts, goes to Mel-
bourne, and her first start there
may be in the Lightning Stakes,
run over 5 furlongs at Fleming-
ton on February 19. Under the
w.-f.-a. conditions of that sprint
she would carry 7st. only, a
luxury impost, but she will find
the opposition composed of some
of the fastest’ gallopers in Aus-
tralia. It is a new race, brimful
of interest, and Sydney hopes of
lifting the big end seem bright.
Few racing. men favor running
two-year-olds against older
horses, even over such a short
distance as the V.A.T.C. Oak-
leigh Plate, 5| furlongs. How-
ever, fast two-year-olds, includ-
ing New Slipper and Sir
Newton, figure in the weights for
the Oakleigh to be run at Caul-
field on March 5. If their owners
decide on a run they will have to
be slick to down the formidable
opposition. The list includes
crack Sydney sprinter, Gay Vista,
who cleaned-up the main summer
sprints at Randwick.
Boom two-year-old filly
Neugina, one of Bert Belling-
ham’s Randwick team, won her
first race, a Kembla Novice, in
style suggesting she might later
honor her pedigree lines. By
Newtown Wonder (imp.) from
Sangina by Felcrag (imp.), she
is from the family which pro-
duced Manfred, Martian, Delta
and Deep River.
Interesting winner at Kembla
was the New Zealand-bred filly
Aviva, in the Second Maiden.
She is one of the few progeny of
imported Newtown Pippin to
race and win in Australia.
Newtown Pippin is a not-so-well-
known brother of the successful
Newtown Wonder (imp.), whose
speedsters have won many
thousands in stakes in this
country. Both sires are by Fair
Trial from Clarapple by Apple
Sammy. Aviva’s dam Sigrid was
lightly raced. She is by
Siegfried (imp.) from Princess
Pat by All Black (imp.).
Studmaster P. Allan, of Oak-
field, Mudgee (N.S.W.), declined
a final bid of 800gns. for the
colt by Gaekwar’s Pride (imp.)
from Gilt Lady by Gilt Edge at
the Randwick yearling sales in
1953 and retained him for racing.
It was not until Saturday last
that the colt, racing as Gilt Son,
ended a series of poor displays by
winning the Rosehill Maiden
Handicap at 33 to 1.
Having his first race, Noble
Archer, who topped Randwick
yearling sales last April at
6500gn5., made up ground to
finish a distant seventh to
Kingster in the Rosehill Promo-
tion Stakes. He wasn’t in the
betting, but came from a long
way back, indicating that a race
beyond 4i furlongs may suit him.
Noble Archer carries the Valiant
Archer colors, and is a handsome
brown colt by Delville Wood
(imp.) from Best Wishes by
Agincourt (imp.).
Melbourne-owned two-year-
old Diamond Tiara may prove
a yearling bargain, judging by
his stylish win at Caulfield in
the 6-furlongs First Sturt Handi-
cap. He cost 300gns. and won a
£7OO stake, finishing strongly.
He could win longer races later
on as he is a son of Crown Gem,
from Topvue by Top Hole from
Panvue, a Pantheon mare.
Crown Gem won races from
5 furlongs to 13 furlongs and
belongs to the famous Gem
family. His dam, French Gem,
was an Oaks winner and a bril-
liantly successful brood mare.
Panvue, granddam of Diamond
Tiara, is a half-sister to All
Love, one of the speediest fillies
to have raced in this country in
late years.
• • • •
“Pat S.”: At the Inverell
(N.S.W.) two-day meeting the
10 runners in the first race on the
Friday ran normally until, near
the “three,” Bay Belle, running
fifth and with plenty of galloping
room, fell heavily, injuring her
jockey. Just afterwards, Bella
Theresa, five lengths in front,
was turning into the straight
when her feet practically slipped
from under her, and jockey
“Chic” Kelly held her up with
difficulty. After the race the
committee inspected the track
and promptly postponed the
fixture until the following
Monday. The turf had been
“mollycoddled,” and excessive
mowing and rolling had pro-
duced a surface that was so hard
and slippery that galloping
hoofs would not cut in. The
course was given a thorough
watering, and the second day’s
programme duly held on the
Saturday. Then a nice point
arose. How could winners on
the Saturday be penalised on the
Monday for races that had been
run, theoretically, on the Friday
and for which no penalties were
provided?
• • • •
Winning her second successive
Launceston (Tas.) Cup, the aged
Beau Son mare Vamos cut the
12 furlongs out in 2.32, humping
9.10. Neither weight nor age
daunted the punters ; they made
the old girl favorite at 7 to 2.
4- +
“P.0.M.C.”: In spite of selec-
tors, critics and post-mortems, it
was simply that Hutton was no
ham, so he’s taking home the
bacon.
• • • •
Though almost from the start
England appeared to have the
advantage throughout the fourth
Test, Australia had a good
chance until its disastrous
second innings. More runs on
the first day, or a better second-
innings effort —in other words if
the dog hadn’t stopped running
it would have caught the hare.
The Englishmen were too good.
(Scores, for the record: Aus-
tralia 323 and 111 ; England, 341
and 5-97.)
Tyson and Statham (with, at
times, Appleyard’s help) have
wrecked Australian innings too
many times to allow the word
“fluke.” There is no Australian
bowler of comparable pace and
control to give Australian bats-
men experience, though Lindwall
and Miller (who lately has been
well and truly answering critics
who wrote him off as a bowler)
are still fine new-ball bowlers.
Apropos, though it’s unkind to
a great bowler to say so, Eng-
land’s Test victories began with
the dropping of Bedser —which
gave to the English attack the
variety that is so important.
Australian batting failed (since
the first Test only two, Harvey
and Maddocks, have made over
50 in Tests). Our bowlers
bundled England out reasonably
cheaply each time, and our field-
ing has been generally better
than England’s. Hutton’s team,
one or two good-’uns excepted,
hasn’t superlative fieldsmen like
"Can I have the afternoon off, skip,? It's me
grandma's funeral."
Davidson, Harvey, Miller,
Archer and Benaud.
• • • •
This year’s restricted number
of Sheffield Shield games has
reduced the opportunities of the
younger batsmen close to Test-
selection. They haven’t been
able to prove themselves; and,
no matter how good he might
turn out to be, you can’t pick a
man for a Test on only one big
first-class score.
For the West Indies the
selectors have plumped for the
tried and trusty. (Anyway,
there’s no Tyson or Statham to
be met over there —we hope.)
Only newcomers to international
cricket are Queenslander Burge,
whose father is to manage the
side, and N.S.W. opener Billy
Watson. Young N.S.W. fast-
bowler Pat Crawford is the
“surprise omission.” Only mem-
ber of the fourth-Test side not
going is Burke. This is the first
time Australia has gone to the
West Indies.
• • • •
“On Drive”: Little match-
planning is done by Australian
openers to cope with fast bowl-
ing. Hobbs and Sutcliffe, with
their well-executed tap and run,
laid the foundation of big scores
on early singles, and put many
opening bowlers out of the
attack. McCabe’s slashing 187
against Larwood was the
fruition of thoughtful deter-
mination plus splendid mobility.
With Evans 20yds. behind
the stumps and our men stuck
fat on the crease, the term
“slow-footed English batsmen”
has a hollow, mocking sound.
• • • •
“Tom”: Record low score for
an innings? In a N.S.W.
Churches Cricket Union match
St. Peters (Campbelltown) scored
one run against Auburn Church
of Christ. The run came from a
no-ball.
“T.R.D.”: “Keima” asks why
there’s never been an Australian
star cricketer named Smith (B.
22/12/’54). Conversely, I’ve
always wondered why so many
of them have uncommon names.
I have heard of no other Wood-
full, Bardsley, Kippax, Grim-
mett, Bradman, Favell, Benaud,
De Courcy, Lindwall, Meule-
man, Gorringe. Perhaps the
Smiths adopt stage-names for
cricket.
* • • •
Compton has been at the
creases three times for English
victories. In the fifth 1950-51
Test (the first post-war English
Test-win over Australia):'
Compton, 11 not-out in a score
of 2-95 (Hutton 60 not-out).
Again in the fifth 1953 Test at
The Oval, which won for Eng-
land its first post-war Ashes:
Compton 22 not-out (with
Edrich 55 not-out), when
England got the 132 needed with
(again) two wickets lost. And
in Adelaide last week: Compton
34 not-out.
• • •
“Sidav”: One of the
columnists refers to Charlie
Turner as “The Terror.” But that
was what they dubbed “Tibby”
Cotter —“The Terror-Cotter” of
the same era. I was associated
with “Tibby” at the N.S.W.
Taxation Department nearly
half a century ago, and he was
the greatest bowling speedster
of the period. He was also a
terrific hitter, scoring at least
one Test century, mainly fours
and sixes. As a taxation-officer
he was a good amateur car-
toonist, his office wall being
plastered with caricatures of
fellow-workers.
• • • •!
Just before the choice was
made, W. J. O’Reilly let himself
go in “S. M. Herald”:
Cricket enthusiasts will eagerly
await to-morrow’s announcement ot
the names of the 16 players who win
tour the West Indies in the hope that
our cricket selectors have taken the
obvious steps required to lift our
game out of the rut it is in now.
And the selectors went their
wilful way regardless of it all.
* * *
“Roscoe”: Even if tennis-
player Mervyn Rose were
“pruned” (B. 2/2/’55) there’d
still be quite a ring of Roses in
Australian sport. There’s young
record - breaking swimmer
Murray Rose ; Collingwood and
Victorian rover Bob Rose, one
of the best in the National code,
Bob’s brother Bill, also with
’Wood; Newcastle pole-vaulter
Peter Rose; and, the latest bud,
Norma, Victorian lass who at
Royal Park (Melbourne) won the
first Australian women s
pentathlon ever held.


Hdt/e you a
RfG farming
job to do?
m
r'&O
s J
• Bedrock economy.
• Absolute reliability.
• Develops maximum
power at low working
speeds.
• A full range of
"MATCHED - AFTER -
TEST IMPLEMENTS"
make it a Task Force
in Itselfl
Sold and Serviced by
Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and
Dealers everywhere.
NT.27.32
.h. NUFFIELD
DIESEL TRACTOR
Basic Tractor with Heavy Duty Wheel Equipment
DOWN PAYMENTS PROM
£345
with generous Terms of Repayment
Your local Nuffield Dealer will be glad to discuss
a trade-la of your present tractor as part-payment
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria;
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTORCORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTO.
Some Comments; Some Suggestions
Mental Hospitals
By P. O'REILLY
y*| GAIN the daily papers
f \ have been attacking the
I the administration of
N.S.W. mental hospitals;
but they make no attempt to
solve this extraordinarily difficult
problem.
While the community allows
the care of the mentally afflicted
to be borne by a Government
department there will always be
room for criticism. Indeed the
public servants in this depart-
ment must have qualifications
not generally enjoyed by their
colleagues elsewhere, otherwise
the position would be far more
startling.
But the critics among rela-
tives and friends of patients in
mental hospitals are surprisingly
few.
• Patients who are discharged,
almost without exception, deny
that their admission was justified
(for this they correctly refrain
from blaming the hospitals), but
comparatively few express dis-
satisfaction at the treatment they
received—many pay striking
tributes to *the kindness of
hospital officials.
One lady, after 15 years’
detention in Gladesville,
described in glowing terms the
beneficial treatment she received
during the early years when she
was fairly constantly under the
direct notice of the medical
authorities, but she was critical
of the conditions that existed
after she had come to be
regarded as a permanent inmate
and was relegated to accom-
modation for the thoroughly
institutionalised, who were
largely apathetic and forgotten
by friends and relatives. She
especially had in mind crude
bathing-facilities, lacking in
privacy ; but she freely admitted
that most of the patients con-
cerned appeared totally oblivious
to the conditions.
The failures of the hospitals
receive constant publicity, but
their successes remain unpub-
lished. During a period of about
three years more than 250
patients were discharged after
detentions lasting from five years
to 31 years. During 12 months
in 1952-53 three patients were
allowed to leave a country
hospital after having been
detained for periods in excess of
20 years—incidentally, one of
them found that she was a
divorced woman; her husband,
who was domiciled in another
State, had obtained a divorce on
the ground of her incurable
insanity. However, she appeared
quite happy about this.
These discharges, after such
lapses of time, rightly raise
doubts as to whether detentions
for such lengthy periods were
necessary. Perhaps after years
of detention a patient becomes
so accustomed to the institutional
life that recovery is not recog-
nised, even by the patient.
Wrongful admissions cannot be
entirely ruled out, but in no such
case is the hospital to blame—
if they do occur it may be due
to some unrecognised physical
ailment producing symptoms of
mental disturbance.
A leading psychiatrist told the
Lunacy Court that in the final
analysis recognition of mental
disease depended on asking
questions and studying the
answers. It follows that the
correct answers must be known
to the practitioner who is to
make the decision, and these are
not always available to the
hospital authorities, who may be
relying on faulty data supplied—
not necessarily maliciously—by
relatives.
A lady who was an inmate of
Callan Park for several years
maintained that she had to
pretend to be mad to obtain
her release. On her admission
she appeared to be obviously
suffering from a mental
disorder: during a lengthy
interview she remained entirely
apathetic and unresponsive, with
no sign of comprehension. Yet
months afterwards she could
repeat everything that was said,
and maintained that the informa-
tion furnished at the interview
was so reassuring that she com-
menced to recover from that
time.
Later she became alert and
applied without avail for her
release. Another patient told her
she would never get away
because she was too submissive,
so she commenced destructive
habits, breaking windows and
anything within her reach.
The medical superintendent,
who knew her and her family in
priyate life, remonstrated with
Miss X, who replied, “You say
I am mad, Doctor, so there is
nothing that can be done.” Sub-
sequently the medical superin-
tendent suggested her removal
to another hospital, and Miss X
accepted this proposal, feeling
that she could obtain her dis-
charge from another medical
superintendent; she did.
Afterwards, for over 20 years,
she led a normal life, although
she was a little eccentric. On
her death the validity of her will
was challenged, unsuccessfully.
Miss X always maintained that
the Callan Park doctor was
guided by erroneous information
given by her relatives.
It must be kept in mind that
not infrequently medical officers
are faced with serious respon-
sibility when considering the
discharge of a patient. A patient
admitted following attempted
suicide was detained for nine
years, during which time his
behavior was exemplary. On the
day he was allowed to go home
he was found dead from self-
inflicted wounds. And there are
cases where the released patient
has not been content to injure
himself.
Difficulties in regard to the
admission and discharge of
patients will always remain, but
the I remedy for such faults as
exist in administration is
obvious. The mental hospitals
should be conducted in the same
manner as ordinary hospitals,
controlled by boards comprising
suitable members of the public,
who should co-opt the services
of people of goodwill to ensure
that special consideration is given
to every detail affecting the
welfare of patients, no matter
how long they are detained.
Here it may not be out of
place to remark that there is
some doubt as to whether Callan
Park and Gladesville are properly
constituted mental hospitals.
The Lunacy Act provides for the
establishment of mental hospitals
and gives the required legal
status to hospitals established
under any former Act. Callan
Park and Gladesville, however,
were established before there
was any statutory authorisation.
A lengthy search (admittedly not
absolutely conclusive) failed to
reveal the gazettal of those
hospitals since 1879, when the
first Act providing for the estab-
lishment of hospitals came into
force.
In the interest of patients who
have estates, a major reform is
imperative. At present, on their
admission, the court takes charge
of their affairs without any
inquiry as to whether such inter-
vention is necessary. For nearly
two centuries it has been settled
English law that capacity can
exist with insanity, and this has
been upheld by the courts, and
by medical opinion, in N.S.W.
There have been many instances
of persons suffering from
delusions skilfully attending to
complicated affairs.
This coexistence of insanity
and capacity was not always
recognised, and in early days a
man only had to plead insanity
without proof to escape a con-
tractual obligation—the courts
in those days believing that a
man would not so demean
himself as to brand himself with
insanity merely to escape a
liability.
Nowadays, here and in Eng-
land, the Lunacy Courts will not
interfere in the affairs of a person
unless both insanity and
incapacity are proved. But in
N.S.W. this does not apply to
persons detained in mental
hospitals, who are admitted
without inquiry as to capacity—
only evidence of insanity and
necessity for detention (perhaps
the latter does not always receive
due consideration) is required;
and this can be supplied without
even a magisterial inquiry.
There is little doubt —there is
no doubt at all—that this has
frequently been a source of
grave disturbance to many
patients, resulting in serious
aggravation of their condition.
Persons suffering from mental
complaints are commonly
suspicious, and when they find
themselves shut up and auto-
matically divorced from their
affairs, not unnaturally their
suspicions are confirmed and
deepened.
No doubt in the early days of
the State expediency suggested
this departure from old customs:
in a scattered community delays
while inquiries as to capacity
were proceeding could have been
harmful, even ruinous, to estates.
Obviously, remedial measures
should provide for some less-
formal procedure than the
ordinary application to the
Lunacy Court; since, presum-
ably, the existence of insanity
has already been established.
Any decision that incapacity
also exists should be subject to
automatic review. In the early
days of a mental breakdown
appearances are more likely to
suggest inability (as in the case
of the lady who had to pretend
to be mad). Moreover, auto-
matic reviews would enable the
patient to raise the question of
the necessity for continuance of
detention.
Admittedly, the existing Act
does contain some safeguards.
Any patient, relative or
friend can apply to the judge
for directions regarding an
estate, but this is not well recog-
nised, even by the legal profes-
sion, and is of no practical value
to a detained patient. One
patient, on being advised of this
right, made an application by
letter, in which he asked that in
the circumstances the formalities
governing applications to the
court should be waived. The
Rules of Court provide that the
judge may vary them as he sees
fit, but the application was
treated as informal and was not
dealt with.
In the absence of any amend-
ment to the law, the Minister
should arrange that the Public
Solicitor or his representative
should visit the hospitals to
advise patients of their rights,
and to assist them in any applica-
tion they may desire to make.


IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
How to speed up
your reading
To get ahead in a job—or land
one —the ability to read quickly
can spell the difference between
success and failure. Yet most
of us are poor readers.
February Reader’s Digest
reveals bad reading habits that
can cost you time, money
even a better job; offers simple
suggestions to help break them.
You’ll find many other stimu-
lating articles in February
Reader’s Digest, including “Is
stress the cause of all disease?”
“Best advice I ever bad.” Plus
a 20-page book condensation of
“A Woman in the Polar Night.”
Don’t miss February Reader’s
Digest, on sale now —1/6 at all
newsagents and bookstalls. It’s
unparalleled reading value for
all the family!
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
GUARD
m
PROTECTA
TILL
Suitable for every type of tooslnea* 11 , re ?®*2|.
all Sales. Credit*. Payoot. etc. Strongly bnl, J
pleasing In appearance. Bend for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty Ltd*
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents— 14 .
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Yardon St Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRITISH DEFENCE
Contents of the U.K. Govern-
ment’s annual Statement on
Defence are secret until publica-
tion, but, writing before the
event, “Manchester Guardian’s”
defence correspondent pointed
out that some of its basic
assumptions were already
“becoming evident”:
“Three assumptions may be
mentioned. First, in the next
four or five years a major war
is unlikely, provided there is no
splitting of the Atlantic alliance,
and no slump to disturb Western
Europe politically.
“Second, the prospects in the
period from 1960, although also
favorable, depend partly on
progress with scientific research
and its application to defence-
production.
“Finally, the advent of the
hydrogen-bomb means that if a
major war were to come the first
20 or 30 hours would probably
be decisive for Britain.
“A primary reason for the first
assumption is America’s long
lead in air-power. It is con-
sidered a strong deterrent to
war. American aircraft can
reach any major target in the
Soviet Union, and their home-
bases in Florida, Texas and
Arizona are thought to be
invulnerable.
“The Soviet Air Force cannot
yet reach the main population-
centres of the United States
(except on one-way missions,
which would be a wild gamble),
still less the southern bases.
“By 1959 or 1960, however,
the Russian jet-bomber force will
have grown to large numbers,
and Russian anti-aircraft missiles
may be guarding targets in the
Soviet Union.
“The prospects then become
harder (to foresee —although
there is a strong supposition that
if the Western defence effort is
maintained the West will remain
well ahead in strategic power,
thereby diminishing the risk of
major war.”
Under various headings
“Guided Missiles,” “Bomber
Aircraft,” “Fighter Aircraft,”
“Civil Defence,” “The Army”
and “Research,” these enmeshed
sinews of war are analysed: as
they have been, from other
sources, from time to time here.
Of the first three rather more
has been recently heard than of
the others —partly because of
their intrinsic importance and
more spectacular interest, and
partly, too, because of recent
controversy, in which the
London (Labor) “Daily Herald”
comments:
“About £4300 million, not
counting U.S. aid, will have been
spent on [Britain’s] defence in
the three years ending this
March. But what defence have
we got for it? Look at the
picture today:
“The Navy is unhappy and
filled with uncertainty.
“Army recruiting is woefully
below expectation.
“The Air Force, worst of all,
is scandalously short of modern
fighter-planes.
“Civil-defence hardly exists.
“In this all-round muddle it
is the failure to equip the
R.A.F. with swept-wing fighters
that most urgently needs
explanation.”
The “Manchester Guardian”
correspondent notes that during
the next four or five years
Britain’s civil-defence organisa-
tion will have to be overhauled
and radically strengthened.
“The possibility must be
faced,” he adds, “that the metro-
politan area of one or more of
our great cities might be
destroyed, or that a devastating
attack might be made in the
vicinity of the air-bases in East
Anglia and the edge of the
Cotswolds.”
With all that these possibilities
New York “Herald Tribune.”
MAJOR DECISION IN THE LIFE OF RED CHINA
imply, in terms of large-scale
organisation and mobile columns
for the quick relief of different
areas at short notice, “Part of
the Territorial Army may eventu-
ally be turned over to Civil
Defence.”
On the British Army itself:
“The gradual reduction in size
of the active Army will continue.
The eight battalions to be dis-
banded will come, iin effect,
through savings in the Middle
East and Far East. In Europe
there will be no reduction: there
the Allied fprce is small, and
Britain has undertaken not to
cut its contribution. Mainten-
ance of the Allied force in
Europe at about Its present level
is considered essential, since the
Soviet Union might otherwise be
tempted to seize Western Europe
in a sudden land-attack,
especially if a political collapse
of France were to strain the
Atlantic alliance.
“The Allied force is needed
also to cope with any minor
incident which might occur (such
as a sortie by the East German
Bereitschaften or fighting on the
Greek border); it would- be
important to prevent such minor
incidents from getting out of
hand and leading to a larger
war.
“In Britain the strategic-
reserve will be built up; the
3rd Infantry Division is moving
back from Egypt. No change in
National Service is intended this
year.
“The greatest uncertainty
hangs over the Territorial Army.
Anti-Aircraft Command is being
disbanded, but apparently the
Government has decided to let
that change be digested before
making any more. The field
divisions, such as the 42nd Lan-
castrian Division and the 51st
Highland Division, have been
written off by Supreme Head-
quarters, Europe, as unfit for
emergency service on the
Continent.
“The Government might, how-
ever, need a reserve which on
mobilisation could be used for
field-service in the Middle East
or elsewhere. That is one reason
for hesitation about changing
the Territorials’ role.”
In an article in the “Sunday
Times,” Lieut.-General Sir
Brian Horrocks, discussing the
importance of National Service
for the British Army in 1955,
glances at the role of that Army,
as he sees it.
On an oft-repeated argument
—that, since the West’s primary
defence is the H-bomb, “Why
bother about an Army and Navy
at all?” —Sir Brian makes the
comment that there is “just
sufficient truth in it to make it
dangerous.”
The argument is usually
expressed in such terms as this:
“In the event of a hot war no
country could stand up for long
to the mass-destruction which
would be wrought by nuclear
warfare. As it is, we cannot
afford our present defence
Budget without undermining our
economy, and thus playing
straight into the hands of the
Communists. Therefore, con-
centrate on the Air Force and
cut the other two Services to
the bone. Land- and sea-
warfare are things of the past.”
An argument which seems to
fail to take into account Mont-
gomery’s horribly vivid phrases
(quoted here) about “broken-
backed warfare.”
But the argument is particu-
larly dangerous, Horrocks insists,
“because it fails to take into
account the Slav Communist
mentality”:
“The Russians respect strength
and have a contempt for weak-
ness; when faced with strength
they withdraw and then try
somewhere else. Time means
nothing to them.
“It is precisely because they
dare not risk a major war that
they are likely to step up their
activities in the cold war.
“This is where the Army comes
in, for the cold war is fought
primarily by men and not by
aircraft. The greatest danger to
the world today lies in this so-
called cold war, because if not
kept under control it may so
easily flare-up into a full-scale
hot war, notwithstanding that
neither side wants this to happen.
“The temptation to use a
couple of atomic bombs against
the Viet-minh troops when the
French were fighting for their
lives at Dien Bien Phu must have
been very strong, but it might
easily have launched a wholesale
nuclear war.
“It is not difficult to imagine
what might happen if our troops 1
were withdrawn from the con-
tinent of Europe. The whole
structure of Western defence
which has been so laboriously
built up under Nato would
collapse, and the will to resist
which now exists among our
Western allies would be replaced
by a wave of defeatism. There
would then be little left to
prevent the Russians from over-
running Europe and presenting
us with a fait accompli .”
And to keep the British
divisions up to strength in
Europe, “It looks as though
National Service, with all its
drawbacks, is here to stay.”
“j n th e i ong run,” the “Man-
Chester Guardian” correspon-
dent writes, “research is the most
critical factor in defence-
planning. In the short term,
comparative bomber - strengths
are what matter most.”
British Shipping - costs
Touching on the reduction in
British shipyards’ orders, S.
Falck, chairman of Norway’s
Bergen Steamship Co., presents
in London “Daily Telegraph”
some of the reasons as he sees
them.
In the year ended July, 1954,
he says, not one of Norway’s
many orders for foreign ships
was placed with Britain because
British quotes were too high, as
they still are.
“I have found,” Falck con-
tinues, “that one of the main
reasons is the number of unions
involved in the British shipbuild-
ing industry—l 6, according to
my information —and the strict
demarcation of work between
them.
“The system by which a man
will do only the work which
belongs to his union in my
opinion means loss of time, and
loss of time means more expense
and greater costs in building a
ship. To a certain extent, of
course, these problems are
common to trade-unions in most
countries. It is therefore not so
much the system which we must
blame as the extent to which it
is carried in Britain.
“It is not only among the 16
unions that there are liable to
be demarcation disputes: there
are often disputes between
individual trades that may be


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FI EFPp l UtSJ^ E AND ACCIDENT insurances
effected at lowest current rates
mt . 5 r ° mpt and IJberal settlement* of claims
ree ors. b °MAB A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Dues bury, Deputy
H H Mfred S ‘ White > G ‘ Parker. ™
'Phone Managin S Director.
_______ Branches in all States.
P. BUKDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
a GUNTofa chain saw
..in a ONE-MAN package
When you receive your Mobilco in its fitted timber
case with fuel tin, oil measure, high quality fool kit
and guarantee card, it's a good enough sight and it
spells quality all the way through ... But if is not
until you take this mighty little monster and press
the chain deep into a hardwood log that you realise
what a good machine you have got. There is light
weight here and full genuine five horsepower
performance . . . enough to keep a man going day
after day, year after year, turning timber into
profit at a minimum of toil and sweat, f
Write for all the details now. They
will be posted to you right away.
Mobilco
ONE-MAN
CHAIN SAW
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away and without
obligation all details of the MobUco
chain saw.
Name
Address „
You can get your Mobilco on terms.
A reasonable deposit and monthly
payments well within yoor reach will
start earning money and saving effort
for yoo right away. There's the
coupon at the left. Fill it in and post
it for full details on the Mobilco.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF4209 - - - - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
«|AD OmCE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA - - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 UNEffl
BRANCHES BRISBANE, ADELAIDE. PERTH
members of the same union. I
understand that in British ship-
building there are roughly 20
classes of skilled workmen, in
addition to a great many classes
of semi-skilled and unskilled.
This gives some idea of the many
sections into which the work of
the British shipbuilder has to be
split, and the consequent over-
manning, resulting in greater
cost.
“Much work which in the past
could only properly be done by
hand by a skilled craftsman can
now be done by anyone using
modem power-tools, and the
particular vice of the demarca-
tion system is that it prescribes
skilled craftsmen for jobs for
which no specialised skill is
required. Such tools as
pneumatic or electric drilling-
tools, the almost universal
welding-arc and burning-torches,
should be at the elbow of any
man to use as his work requires,
and should not have to be
specially brought to the work by
a separate workman.
“It seems that the lack of
flexibility which prevents men
from freely using any tool which
would help them to complete
their work, and restricts men
from helping other men in the
execution of their duty, has
become a main economy
problem. I can only hope that
some unions or trades may fuse
for the good of themselves and
the industry generally.
“If the position does not
change materially,” Falck con-
cludes, “it is hard to see how
British yards will be able to
avoid the loss of further foreign
orders. Shipping is international,
and as a general principle it is
only possible to run ships which
are built to international prices.”
Atomic Race
Lewis L. Strauss was a member
of the U.S. Atomic Energy Com-
mission from its beginning in
1946 until 1950, and returned to
the commission as chairman in
1953 ; now, in a “U.S. News
and World Report” interview,
he has commented on the rela-
tive positions of the U.S. and
Russia in the atomic-arms race.
Asked, regarding secrecy, if
he thought there was any support
for the argument that “every-
thing would have been known
anyhow,” he replied: “Yes—if
you disregard the time-factor.”
“The primary purpose that
security serves, and it’s a very
important purpose,” he
explained, “is to protect military
information for as long as
possible. It is a holding
operation.”
- if inevitable that all
information like this, without any
espionage, will become available
to the public through science?
A. Yes. I think the observed
phenomenon of simultaneous
invention, which has occurred so
often in widely separated places
ra the world, demonstrates that
when the surrounding climate of
knowledge reaches a certain
point men do think of the same
things simultaneously even
when they are situated at the
antipodes and this simul-
taneous invention has frequently
been remarkable in its detail.
But more often we can look for
time to elapse between an inven-
tlof,m ® ne place and in another.
ine aim, of course, in a world
such as we have is to hold for as
' on B as possible what we know
a . ou t that is of military
significance. That’s of particular
value when the things you
discover are discovered not only
through ingenuity but through
the fact that you are in the
fortunate position of having the
funds and the resources to build
very large machines. Then these
discoveries are sometimes the
product of the machine as well as
the intellect.
Q. By how much time did
espionage reduce the spread of
this atomic knowledge?
A. It will be interesting to
know that precisely, and we
probably won’t know it for
yea.rs, if ever.
Q. Are you sure that there
was a shortening of the period
by espionage?
A. No one can be sure, but
it’s my belief that since Fuchs
Richmond (U.S.A.) “News-Leader.”
BIRD IN A GILDED. CAGE
confessed that he had turned
over what he knew —and he
knew a great deal—and the
Rosenbergs and others were busy
at it, then it would be the most
unusual situation if the Soviets
got the information and did not
take advantage of it. It is con-
ceivable, of course, that the
information reached somebody
who put it in his desk-drawer
and never used it, but I would
think that that was unlikely in
view of the pains they took to
obtain it. It is my belief that
espionage was of substantial aid
to the U.S.S.R.
Q. How much money have
we [America] spent on this
atomic business from the start?
A. Roughly $B5OO million,
plus or minus $lOO million here
or there.
Q. In how many years?
A. Since 1947.
Q. That’s since the post-war
period. And how much do you
still have to spend?
A. Oh, before we get the
thing finished, there’ll be close
to $9OOO million invested. Then
we will be running along with
an operating expenditure of
about $2OOO million a year.
Q. For as long as one can
foresee?
A. For as long as one can
foresee.
Q. You are familiar with what
is needed to operate this pro-
gramme on, s2ooo million a
year
A. You need a lot of good
people for one thing. For
another, you need the confidence
of Congress.
Q. But as a physical proposi-
tion, you know what the
materials are, you know what
the personnel is, you know about
the power and the machinery.
Now, while we don’t know what
is happening inside Soviet
Russia, wouldn’t a comparable
set-up like this inside Russia be
too big for their Budget?
A. Who can say? It would
cost them very much less than
it costs us, because a large part
of this $2OOO million represents
the cost of labor—the cost of
labor not only on our payroll,
but the cost of labor running
through everything we buy, from
generators and pumps down to
pads and pencils. That is a price
we pay for our standard of
living.
In Soviet Russia, on the other
hand, that figure can be anything
they choose to make it. They
have the people. They can pay
them or not, and as much or as
little as they wish. They can
mine their ore with slave-labor.
They can pay them with paper
or with the barest subsistence.
So that you can’t measure this
thing relatively with Russia on
the yardstick of how many
paper roubles it costs them and
how many dollars it costs us.
Q. You could measure it in
resources, then?
A. In resources and the
number of skilled people
employed. You should really
measure it in grams of grey
matter.
Q. But there are also the
uranium deposits
A. Yes. We only know
definitely of the resources they
had external to Russia—-in
Czechoslovakia, let us say. But
having had this experience on
our own Colorado plateau of
increasing the ore-supply simply
because we had to find it, it’s
hard to believe that, in a land-
mass as great as theirs, they will
not have found some supplies
unknown to the world before the
Iron Curtain was rung down.
Towards United
Europe?
The French National
Assembly’s approval of West
German rearmament as part of
the general scheme to unify
Western Europe was, at least,
one step further towards that
goal, but, as New York “Herald
Tribune” points out editorially,
it was only achieved by a
“narrow margin”:
“Against the background of
bitter debate, of shifting
opinions and obvious reluctance
on the part of many who sup-
ported Premier Mendes-France
on this issue, there can be no
excessive jubilation over the 27
votes which were the margin of
victory. But neither can the
victory itself be discounted.
“Ten years ago armed Ger-
mans were still on French soil
—the third generation which
had attacked across the Rhine
since 1870. For Frenchmen to
acknowledge that now the
greatest threat springs from
distant Russia—an ally in two
world wars—is a stern test of
their ability to gauge realities.
That they have faced up to the
problem with many doubts and
fears is not surprising—the
important thing is that they
have done so.”
Be that as it may, the vote was
not, as London “Economist”
comments, the last link in the
chain of the ratification
process:
“What remains to be done is
not mere formality. Even a
brief relaxation at this stage
could yet prove disastrous.
Those who are tempted to relax
should take warning from the
unflagging campaign that the
Soviet leaders and their fol-
lowers in the West are still
waging against the Paris agree-
ments, if from nothing else.
Moscow does not waste its
energy on lost causes.”
French approval of European
unity and an armed Germany is
one thing ; the value of France’s
material contribution to that
set-up, however, is not viewed
too optimistically by “New York
Times” military writer Hanson
W. Baldwin, who lists France’s
military weakness as one of the
“fundamental realities” to be
considered in any adjustment of
strategic policies in this new
chapter in Western Europe:
“The French military Budget
shows no indications of any
build-up in ground effectives and
provides only marginal increases
in air- and naval-strength.
France, the nation that put more
than 100 divisions in the field at
the start of World War 11, has
available in Europe slightly
more than three active divisions
for Nato.
“This contribution is roughly
comparable to the contribution
from Belgium, with a population
a fifth that of Metropolitan
France. It is considerably
smaller than the contributions
of Greece, Turkey or Italy.
“Until there are major politi-
cal, economic and psychological
changes in France—and there
are few prospects that these
changes are imminent except the
possibility that German rearma-
ment will spur the French to
greater efforts—the only major
French contribution to Nato will
be geographic position. That
has been regarded in the past as
indispensable, but some military
strategists have never been sure
of it. Nato forces in Germany
could be supplied through the
ports of the Low Countries, and
the long supply-lines that now
lead through France would be
vulnerable, in any case, to
Communist fifth-columnists.”
On the other hand there is
the view of the “N. Y. Times”
foreign-affairs writer C. L.
Sulzberger, rather more certain
of the strategic value of France
in the European scene.
“Any shift of American
military emphasis away from
France,” he writes, “would be
interpreted widely in Europe as
a return to the philosophy of
perimeter defence” :i
“This would encourage the
Russians, whose policy for nine
years has been to urge us [the
U.S.] off the Continent. And,
while it is possible to found a
logical American strategy upon
overseas bases in North Africa,
the Iberian Peninsula, Turkey
and England—as some of our
soldiers desire—this would in
effect mean abandoning most of
Europe.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Depressions
Australia’s developmental programme,
together with wise handling of finance,
could cushion the worst effects of a
slump (B. 3/11 /’54). That has been
proved by happenings in both the United
States and Australia since the last war.
The U.S. has a large number
of unemployed, but it ha§ at no time
come near the conditions of the 1930’5,
although the possibility of such condi-
tions has been there several times since
1945.
I haven’t relative figures for the U.S.,
but Australia’s export-income dropped by
30 per cent, in 1952-53 —as big a drop
as that which precipitated the depression
of the ’thirties. Yet unemployment in
1952-3 was only 1.8 per cent, at its worst
and it was soon taken-up, largely by wise
financial measures.
The problem of depressions has always
been one of underconsumption rather
than overproduction, and the task of
keeping the money moving is a simple
one, even if economists and politicians
do sometimes differ over details of
administration.
No country, of course, can completely
escape the effects of a world-wide depres-
sion, but Australia, or any other country,
can greatly minimise them.
Part of the Soviet Union’s fear, dis-
trust and prickliness towards the West is
due to its determination not to be drawn
into depressions. Soviet rulers consider
that they have solved the problem of full
employment and can avoid depressions
provided their country is as nearly as
possible self-contained. Most orthodox
economists agree that this is so. Where
they differ with Soviet theory is as to
whether the means to the end are worth
suffering, and whether bureaucracy might
not strangle initiative.
Australia is large enough and rich
enough, if handled properly, to be self-
contained in most things, and a lot of
economists consider that, without Soviet
methods, we would escape the worst
effects of a world depression if we ran our
affairs properly.—No Sirrah (Q.).
Cricket
A declining interest in cricket (B.
29/12/’54)? Put it down to increasing
car-ownership, to the popularity of surf-
ing, to s.p.-betting, to shorter working-
hours, to the big increase in popularity of
“ Blast —another ladder !”
golf and tennis, and to the attitude of our
womenfolk.
Some of these have a complementary
effect. The car has made the beaches
more accessible; many of us don’t work
on Saturday morning and go regularly
to weekend cottages at the seaside or
elsewhere in summer.
As late as the 1920’s golf was mainly
a game for the well-to-do; now it is
played by all classes and by women as
well as men. Thirty years many
young fellows regarded tennis as “a sissy
game,” and if they condescended to play
it would only do so casually. That atti-
tude has gone.
Some years ago the secretary of Glam-
organ County attributed the decline of
the amateur in England largely to the
influence of womenfolk, That has applied
also to cricket in Australia. Girls can
play tennis and golf and can swim and
surf with their boy-friends. They can’t
get the same enjoyment from cricket,
which, apart from picnic-games, is not
played together by the two sexes.
Fifty years ago a girl was glad for her
young man to play cricket. It kept him
out of mischief on Saturday afternoons
and she had his company in the evenings ;
now she often expects him to be with her
most of his leisure-time, surfing, golfing,
swimming, playing tennis or motoring.
Married men with cars are expected to
drive their wives and children to the
beach or on other weekend excursions.
The time taken by a cricket-match
counts against it, both from a player’s
and spectator’s point of view. A Test-
match may last six days, and even a
junior-club game commonly takes all of
two Saturday afternoons. A tennis-match
may be over in an hour. From a player’s
standpoint, one might be out first ball in
a cricket-match, and then have to sit on
the boundary all the afternoon. And if
you’re no bowler it might mean the
whole of another afternoon in the field.
In tennis you have your game, even if
beaten 6-0 in every set. The same argu-
ment applies to golf. There are many
who think along these lines.
Tennis has yet another advantage: far
more can play it. Several games can be
decided on the same court in the course
of a day, but only one cricket-match can
be played on a single ground. That has
prevented many from becoming cricket-
enthusiasts at school.
It may be possible to make cricket a
lot brighter, but there is too much com-
petition for it ever to regain its old-time
popularity.— Castlereagh (N.S.W.).
The Antarctic
No doubt we will find that, as our
work in Antarctica is advanced in the
next decade, other nations will try to
cash-in on our experience and discoveries.
From March, 1955, when the second and
much larger party is landed at Mawson,
we can expect to hear more and more of
the ice-bound areas beyond.
“Mugga Way’s” comment on propa-
ganda (B. 22/12/’54) does not go far
enough. Since Australia first started
sending parties to Heard and Macquarie
Islands seven years ago most of the pub-
licity has been handled by the expedition
leader, Phillip Law, and his colleagues.
They have done an excellent job, but it
got a little beyond them and the time at
their disposal.
Many Australian journalists have tried
to get down south for a 12 months’
sojourn, but none has been successful so
far. One went down on the Kista Dan to
Macquarie Island in late 1953, and wrote
some excellent articles, and a small party
of Melbourne journalists went on
H.M.A.S. Australia when it made a
mercy-dash a few years back to Heard
Island.
But “Mugga Way” is wrong in stating
that the latest Antarctic expedition in-
cludes News and Information writer
Tom Hungerford. Hungerford, who cer-
tainly can write what sells this country
overseas, has only gone there with the
Kista Dan, and at most will spend one
week at Macquarie and perhaps 10 to 12
days at Heard Island and Mawson base.
If Australia wants to publicise its work
in the South it should send a journalist
"It's high time you got a new one , Maggie
with the expedition for a full term of 12
months.
“Mugga Way’s” second observation —
that “air-services between Australia and
the bases are being mooted and increas-
ing use is being made of light planes for
reconnaissance” —hasn’t much future in
it. Think of the distance to these bases
and the lack of landing-facilities! And
what about a suitable aircraft for the
job? Macquarie Island, with about 70
square miles and no flat country for a
strip of the size necessary for such a
large plane, is 1000 miles south of Hobart.
A DC4, DC6 or a Viscount could make
it (even a DC3 at a pinch), but they
would still have to land for fuel and
return. An R.A.A.F. Catalina once
landed at Macquarie Island on a special
emergency mission and returned. The
skipper, an old friend of mine and a
fine Cat. pilot, classed the job as his most
dangerous flight in more than 10 years
on boats. That eliminates Macquarie
Island for an air-service.
Heard Island, 2400 miles south-west
of Perth, is even worse. A strip has been
built at near-by Kerguelen Island, but
even the long-range R.A.A.F. Neptune
reaches the point of no return on the
long trip from its Pearce (W.A.) base,
and then relies on good weather to get
it into the French outpost. No use of
light planes for reconnaissance, as men-
tioned by “Mugga Way,” is contem-
plated at present, as it is impossible to
care for them in the hurricanes
of the south. The last two light
planes, one of which did valu-
able work for a few days, were
lost overboard from the Kista
Dan.
The logical solution seems to
be a special hangar for Mawson
and a helicopter with retract-
able rotors which could be
stored in bad weather and taken
out during periods of good
visibility.— Rothjay (Vic.).
Steam and Diesel
“Transporticus” (B. 19/1 /’55),
is astray in his comparative
costs of diesel (£103,000) and
steam (£17,000) locomotives.
The engine he refers to was
a C-class steam-loco, introduced
on the Trans, railway in 1938.
It was capable of a tractive
effort of 30,5001 b. at 85 per
cent, boiler-pressure. It was
equipped with specially large 12-wheel
tenders, which could carry 12,000 gals. of
water and Yl\ tons of coal. Its road-
worthy weight was 206.4 tons.
Where are the manufacturers who
would make such a locomotive today for
£17,000? As illustration of the steep rise
in costs and prices in the last few years,
consider the Garratts delivered to the
N. S. Wales Railways. The original con-
tract price for the Garratts, signed in
November, 1949, was £54,000 (or
£A67,500) per unit. Their price when de-
livered to the department was about
£lOO,OOO each.
“T.’s” argument against diesel-electrics
is based on alleged higher capital costs,
but that is no deterrent if you are getting
proportionately higher returns. A report
by Senator G. McLeay, Commonwealth
Minister for Transport, tabled in the
Senate in March, 1953, stated that re-
markable and striking economies had been
effected since the Trans, had gone-over to
diesel-electrics. Among those mentioned
were: Cost of operating locomotives had,
been reduced from 183.17 pence per mile
for steam to 47.55 pence per mile for
diesel-electric ; savings in fuel-costs from
October 6, 1951, to June 30, 1952, were
coal, £240,000, and water, £40,000.
The Commonwealth Railway Commis-
sioner, Mr. Pat Hannaberry, seems to be
quite pleased with these results, and
other Australians should be pleased, too.
—Geo. Beesley (N.S.W.).
City Water-supplies
Melbourne has lately had a water-
shortage, and Adelaide has been saved
from severe restrictions only by the com-
pletion of the Mannum pipeline, which
brings Murray water at great cost for
50 miles and over a 1500 ft. range of hills.
This isn’t confined to the capital cities.
The future development of Eyre Penin-
sula (S.A.), together with the growth of
its main seaport and many townships,
will be limited by water-supplies, and
big areas of Western Australia face
similar trouble.
The more one studies the problem the
plainer it becomes that the Murray Valley
Development League is on the right track
with its slogan: “Stop taking water to
the existing cities at great cost; instead,
bring people to where there is water in
abundance —the Murray and its tribu-
taries.”—Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Superannuation
The current trend towards retaining
older workers in employment (as
evidenced by the extension of the retir-
ing-age in some Government depart-
ments) emphasises the anomalies in in-
come-tax laws as they apply to super-
annuation benefits or retiring allowances.
If, when you reach the retiring-age,
you genuinely retire (i.e., end your term
of employment) and collect your super-
annuation in a lump sum, you must
include 5 per cent, of that sum as income
in the annual return for the year of
receipt only. If, however, being still hale
and vigorous and of value to your
employer, you elect to collect your super-
annuation, but continue in your job,
then the Taxation Commissioner will tax
you on the whole amount as income in
the year in which you receive it.
There seem to be two ways around the
difficulty. You can retire, leaving your
employment for an appreciable period
in order to establish a definite break, and
then be re-employed by the same boss
as a “new boy” —preferably, I should
imagine, in the next taxation year.
Alternatively, you caq postpone col-
lecting your superannuation until you
actually do retire —i.e., “lend” it to the
trustees of your superannuation fund or,
in many instances, a life-insurance com-
pany, which will probably pay you interest
on the loan. This interest, of course, is
taxable income.— Hist (N.S.W.).


Get more work done with BEDFORD
like most Australian Truckmen
in any line-up of trucks you’re bound to see a big percentage of
Bedfords—simply because more Australian truck operators buy Bedford
than any other make. (Official registration figures prove this).
Truckmen know that hardworking Bedfords get on with a job
quickly, economically, reliably. Powerful British Bedford saves
money on first cost, running costs and man hours.
Bedford’s design means less wear and lower maintenance
costs.
Pound for Pound, feature for feature you can’t
buy better than Bedford.
Check these important features
0 Choice of Models
Three powerful low-revving 6
cyI.O.H.V. engines power the
Bedford range matching power
to payload throughout. Maxi-
mum torques range from 168.5
to 234 lb. ft. There’s a Bedford
for every job.
# Long-life Engineering
The rugged Bedford chassis
frame, drive line and suspension
is engineered for each particular
capacity and wheelbase.
# Worm and Sector
Steering
Lightness of control and accur-
acy of steering are proved
characteristics of this design.
9 Driver Comfort
The all-steel Bedford cab is
three-point rubber mounted for
road-shock-freedom . . . seats 3
big men in comfort.
# Synchromesh Gears
All Bedfords have a 4-speed
gearbox with synchromesh on
2nd, 3rd and top. Split-second
gear changes are possible with-*
out loss of engine speed.
0 Hydraulic Brakes
Famous ‘Lockheed’ triple-safety
brakes are standard on all
models. Vacuum-servo assistance
on all models above 30 cwt.
0
f ®
Tfd
£
a
r ■ •
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-H O L D E N ’ S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia
O G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire
Purchase arrangements are
available for your convenience.
Ask your Bedford dealer.
0 Bedford is backed by a nation-
wide service organisation.
Check Bedford's prices for
Chassis and Cab.
15/18 cwt. - 119' w.b. £921
30 cwt. 119" w.b. £969
2 tons 143" w.b. £1,033
3 tons 143" w.b. £l,OBl
4 tons 167" w.b. £1,146
5 tons 167" w.b. £1 173
5 tons 167" w.b. £1,318
'Eaton Axle)
6/7 tons 116" w.b. £1,440
6/7 tons 156" w.b £1,460
(All prices plus Sales Tax)
836/36
STR
Public Interest?
Newspapers excuse their publication
of sordid material by declaring it to be
in “the public interest”; their true aim,
rather, is to “interest the public” in the
interest of circulation. Sensation is a
sure booster of circulation, and it is not
surprising that so many papers produce
sensation out of the most sordid of news.
These days, sex and sensation seem to
be complementary, and any news-item
with the slightest touch of sex about it is
spread wide and black in “the public
interest.” Intimate details of divorce-
actions and the more revolting aspects of
crimes are particular favorites for this
treatment.
Schoolteachers are most concerned
about much of what is published today.
For many years teachers have encouraged
children to read the daily paper because,
properly used, the newspaper is a valu-
able aid to education. At present, how-
ever, teachers are reluctant to bring a
paper anywhere near a classroom.
Parents, too, have had to add the daily
paper to those books that are shoved
under the pillow when the children come
home.
The details of divorce-court actions
serve no moral purpose in being splashed
all over the front page; at most they
can only bring distress to the connections
of both parties, and more particularly to
any children there may be. It is hardly
valid to argue that such publicity serves
as a deterrent, and that the guilty should
have thought of the innocent in the first
place.
Criminals, provided there is “news-
value” in their actions, are glamorised
to such an extent that other hoodlums are
encouraged to emulate them. Little
thought is given to their victims.
Outside interference is not of much
use. Papers are entitled to go for stories
with the “human touch,” and nobody
wants his paper to be a copy of “Han-
sard.” But what is printed should be in
the public interest, and that should in-
clude good taste.— Wackford (N.S.W.).
Air Crashes
While “pilot-fatigue” does cause aircraft-
crashes (B. 15/12/’54), the fatigue is not
due to “too many gadgets” but to excess
flying-hours, insufficient rest, ill-health or
the common human frailties (including
carelessness) to which all are prone.
Crashes through habitual reliance on
mechanical ground- or air-aids are a
different matter, and the cure lies in
training. Woe betide the R.A.F. Bomber
Command crew which went astray be-
cause the navigational aids went on the
blink. Crews were expected to do, and
often did, a round trip on the basic
navigation of their training days with the
simplest (and most foolproof) of instru-
ments.
The aid of radar, radio-fixes and the
like is only to make the job easier and
more accurate. When crews are trained
and practised in basic dead-reckoning
navigation they don’t have to rely on
ground aids, and any navigator worth his
salt (provided his compass still operates)
would pick a dud ground-direction
immediately.
A “singles” pilot stepping into the
cockpit of a multi-engined airliner can
be excused for being impressed and some-
what disconcerted. But the instruments
are not hard to follow, and any strain
on the pilot is minimised with experience.
No multi-engined pilot would prefer
fewer instruments. He knows their value.
“Flying by the seat of your pants”
went out with fair-weather flying. The
first lesson to be learned by any pilot who
wants to fly in any weather is to be able
completely to ignore instinct and stick
religiously to the “gadgets” when neces-
sary. There is no more confusing and
terrifying feeling than to be sightless in
cloud or pitch-darkness and have your
intelligence lighting with your instinct
for possession of the controls. Your brain
tells you the instruments are right and
your instinct of self-preservation is
screaming that they must be wrong. You
can feel yourself (via “the seat of your
pants”) doing a rate-four diving-turn
right into the “deck.” You are not, of
course. You’re flying straight and level
and right on compass-course.
The term “negation of judgment” used
by “Freddie” in his article is a good one
and, as he said, it’s a manifestation of
fatigue. Most conspicuous example I
witnessed involved a fighter, which has
the minimum of instruments. A Spitfire
pilot of some 3000 hours’ standing and
of some renown made an excellent land-
ing, but with the wheels still retracted.
The warning-horn had been blaring in
his ears from the moment he throttled
back at 1000 ft., and was still blaring
when the fire-tender crew hauled him out
of his Spitfire. He just had not heard it !
A direct result of fatigue, having nothing
to do with “gadgets.”
Could some of the more recent crashes
be due to a completely new factor—the
tremendous power of the engines?
An aircraft gains its lift from a com-
bination of forward speed and the lifting
effect of the aerofoil section of the wings.
If either of these factors fails, the machine
will stall and drop. No experienced pilot
would endeavor to lift an aircraft from
the ground without first gaining the mini-
mum speed for its particular type. But
if the control-column is held right back,
and the power of the motors is sufficient,
the tail may be held so far down on take-
off that the lift of the aerofoil section is
negated. Despite its forward speed it
can’t fly off the ground. This apparently
happened to the Canadian Comet, and
possibly also to the Vickers Viscount.
Such accidents couldn’t have happened
with aircraft of a few years ago—the
power-plants weren’t strong enough.
Two maxims still hold good from war-
time: (1) Ninety per cent, of all aircraft
accidents are due to pilot-error; (2) An
aircraft will only do what the driver
makes it do.—K. A. B. (W.A.).
Commonwealth Public Service
The increases in the salaries of Com-
monwealth public servants will probably
mean increased postal charges. Approxi-
mately 80 per cent, of the staff of the
Commonwealth public service are em-
ployed in the P.M.G.’s Department, and,
with the increased, salaries, the cost of its
administration will go up by about
£8,000,000 a year.
So it looks as if charges for postage,
telegrams, telephone-calls and wireless-
licences will all be raised again. The
result of any such increases will be re-
flected more-or-less directly in the costs
associated, with all business concerns.
The Commonwealth public service
could well be investigated by an inde-
pendent body of business or professional
men with no personal or monetary interest
in the question. At present, the Common-
wealth Public Service Board, which con-
sists of public servants, is charged with
the responsibility of seeing that the ser-
vice functions as economically as possible
commensurate with efficiency. But the
board and its large staffs at Canberra and
in the various States are governed by the
same conditions as are other officers of
the service, and they themselves benefit —
and very generously—from the increases
in salary which, presumably, are recom-
mended by them.
Another thing that calls for attention
is the short hours of the clerical staff of
the service. Nominally 36f hours a week,
the figure in practice is generally about
32 hours a week for actual work.
The only reason I can see for the con-
siderate treatment accorded public ser-
vants is that the 200,000 of them and
their dependants constitute such a huge
voting-force that any party attempting
to alter the existing conditions would
do so at the risk of political suicide. If
that is the case let them pass the respon-
sibility on to an outside committee. —
Paul Pry (Q.).
Railway Rates
“Redditt” (B. 5/1/’55) is off the beam
when he says that, by loading small quan-
tities of goods in large-capacity N.S.W.
railway-trucks (24- and 28-tonners), a
charge for the full capacity is incurred.
The department has freight-rates, on a
higher scale, applicable to small quantities
based on actual weight. These vary
according to the weight carried, but the
weight-carrying capacity of the truck
used is not charged for unless some-
where near this tonnage is loaded, when
it is cheaper to charge full weight-carry-
ing capacity at the lower rate than actual
weight on the higher scale.
The elimination of 10-ton D-trucks
is a hardship to. those who, for various
reasons, have based their truckings on
10-ton lots. The railways, however, have
made a “concession,” as from January 1,
1955, that 10-ton lots may be loaded into
15-ton S - trucks at the truck - rate
charge for 10 tons plus 10 per cent. Thus
the elimination of 10-ton D-trucks
means that this tonnage may be loaded,
but will be charged as 11 tons.
If clients cannot adjust their loading
to larger-capacity trucks they must suffer
the 10 per cent, tax until a change of
heart or Government brings relief. —
Diniaser (N.S.W.).
The Road-toll
The maiming and killing on the roads
could be cut down by over half if (1)
licences were issued only after the appli-
cant had passed a thorough test, to in-
clude driving competency, mechanical
knowledge, and physical condition; and
if (2) this test were repeated annually.—
Quo Vadis (Q.).


CRONULLA (By the Sea)
THE “WESTELLA”
Perfect holiday accom. for 80 Guests. All
Rms. H. & 0. and Inner-sprung Mattresses.
LICENSED DINING ROOM. Golf. Bowls.
Ballroom. Very near Surf and Electric
Trains. FISHING PARTIES AND PLEA-
SURE TRIPS IN OUR OWN LUXURY
CRUISER. IDEAL FOR HONEYMOONS.
Write for free and post free
Illustrated Booklet.
KINGSWAY, CRONULLA,
LB 5922.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE... _
HYGEIA DISSOLVES ATOR
Approved by JN.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
m
nuwi
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS'
Hygeia Dissolvenator Diet. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
HygeTa '(Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St, Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
It 'p. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St, Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St. Melbourne;
or Wm Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston,
uakwiin: G. T. See Kee, Kadolectrix. Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Baffles Place. „ . T at
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
mm
■v*
HBSBB
Consult us foz
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN'S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
ment illus-
trated is the
World-famous
“FARMERS ’
BOY” STEPPED - AXLE
PLOUGH.
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for: free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd..
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd-.
William St., Mdbourne. MU8551.
Q’land: Buzacott s (Q land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Lta.,
115 York St., Launceston. S.Aust-
A. M. Johnson & Sons Ltd.. 200 204
Grenfell St., Adelaide. W 1495 & 1824.
Sole Australian Ayenfs:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
'DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO,
GRAZCOS'
AFTER SEEING KEYLINE
IyrOST of my fertility-conscious
■**4. landowning acquaintances
would He happy if they could
make two blades of grass grow
where one grew before. Nothing
so unambitious for Mr.
Yeomans, whose two North
Richmond (N.S.W.) properties,
Nevallan and Yobarnie, I
recently visited. Mr. Yeomans
wants to grow 10 blades where
none grew before.
In order to bring about this
improvement, on unpromising
land, in the shortest possible
time, he seems prepared to spend
sums of money which, to my
mind, appear quite fantastic.
There are, of course, all sorts
of non-agricultural reasons why
a man would be willing to invest
in land. The tendency may be
observed all over the country,
but in the County of Cumber-
land (where the two properties
mentioned are) it seems a bit
exaggerated. Driving around,
one has the impression of view-
ing a disproportionate number of
private estates, the country
homes of this or that company-
director or well-to-do profes-
sional man.
This said —and it has some
significance in any assessment of
current land-values—l hasten to
add that Mr. Yeomans’s
enthusiasm for land-restoration
is sincere. Conversation during
the drive from Sydney to Rich-
mond made that plain.
The warm, good-humored
greeting from Mrs. Yeomans
and the interest and friendliness
shown by the numerous
farm-staff to one who had
been somewhat critical of
the keyline plan showed that
this was a rare place where the
pride in a big agricultural
adventure transcended every-
thing else.
Some of the history of the
place was disclosed during
lunch, with the quite surprising
information that the properties
had been bought for as low as
£4 and £7 an acre, 12 years ago ;
this near Sydney, in one of the
oldest agricultural districts in
Australia. And this indicates the
nature of the soil when
Yeomans started to work on it.
Most of it is very steep country
with a thin covering of light
soil (the writer has some
hundreds of acres of similar
country, wire-netted off from the
good land, which he would
gladly forget if the rabbit-
inspector would let him).
For a Riverina man, it is some-
what difficult to adjust one’s
thinking to what is going on at
Yobarnie and Nevallan. What
seems hardest to justify, in the
agricultural sense, is the number
and size of the dams;
ranging from 5,000,000ga1. to
14,000,000ga1. in capacity.
Visitors who had been there in
the past had told me that the
dams seemed out of proportion
to the farm’s requirements. So
my surprise can be imagined on
seeing two enormous new dams
in course of construction.
Now, the practical landowner
makes dams for three reasons:
to water his stock; to impound
run-off water likely to cause
erosion which cannot be dis-
posed of by any less costly
method ; and to provide a water-
supply for some form of
irrigation.
In this case, of these three
reasons, the first two are largely
ruled-out.
A fraction of the storage
would provide for the cattle.
The danger of run-off is slight,
since the farms embrace the
entire slope to the top of the
watershed, and the system of
deep cultivation on the contour
and the contour-belts of trees
would appear to minimise effec-
tively the chances of surface-
erosion.
The justification, then, would
appear to be irrigation. And
since all the dams are provided
"I was gettin' too sophisticated in th' city , so I decided
t ’ come back”
with outlet-pipes, and Water-
pipes connected thereto seem
to run all over the farm —even
acting as a sort of super-toprail
for many of the fences —irriga-
tion seems to have, figured largely
in the Yeomans plan. But it is
generally accepted that one must
have two things before contem-
plating a private system of water-
storage and irrigation: cheap
water-storage and deep rich soil
capable of producing an adequate
return.
I would say without doubt
that Mr. Yeomans has achieved
the cheapest water-storage I
have ever seen; the formation
of his land and his interests in
heavy earth-moving enterprises
contributing. But how is he
going to use that huge water-
storage profitably on poor, steep
land? His confident answer is
that he is going to build deep,
rich soil all over his farm.
We all know, of course, that
soil-fertility improvement has
been carried out for centuries in
various parts of the world: on a
small scale, by peasant-farmers
carrying seaweed or offal, or any
available form of organic-matter
into their fields; on a larger scale
in England and parts of
Western Europe, where it has
been an integral part of the tradi-
tional agriculture; and suburban
gardeners know all about it,
because the labor-expense
factor does not enter into con-
sideration.
But to attempt to achieve it
with bulldozer, chisel-plough,
and all the adjuncts of science,
on a. 1000-acre scale, and with a
sort of pressure-cooker reduc-
tion of the time usually involved,
is really ambitious; staggeringly
so, when one takes in the impli-
cations. As such, it deserves
very serious consideration.
During our inspection Mr.
Yeomans carried a mattock in
the boot of his car, and at
frequent intervals he hauled it
out and dug into the ground to
show 4in., sin. or 6in. depth of
soil on places which, he assured
me, had two years ago been bare
shale.
My own experience has shown
that even in poor soil, bare,
denuded, desert-like patches may
be restored to fertility by the
standard soil - conservation
practices of pasture-furrowing,
contour-cultivation and run-off
control. Whether this improve-
ment can ever be carried to a
point at which it will justify the
expenditure involved in an
irrigation-scheme is, I think,
something only the passing of
time can prove.
When I say “time” I , would
prefer to stipulate a period of
from 20 to 30 years, but since
time is a quantity with which Mr.
Yeomans hasn’t much patience,
I’ll compromise and say that in
10 years one should be able to
estimate whether or not his
experiment has been a success.
I know that even waiting for
10 years would irk Mr. Yeomans
terribly, but since the Depart-
ment of Agriculture (for
instance) won’t recommend a
new variety of wheat until it has
been tested in the field for six
years, it is not unreasonable to
require a 10-year period to prove
the value of a scheme designed
to change the very face of the
globe.
With deep, near - contour
cultivation, regular irrigation,
constant addition of humus by
mowing the grass and leaving it
to become integrated with the
soil, and very moderate stocking
with cattle —all aspects of the
current management of these
properties—soil-improvement is
likely to be spectacular. But for
the experiment to be accepted as
an economic success (and, much
as one may regret it, that will be
the ultimate basis of evaluation)
Mr. Yeomans will need to bring
his land to a standard of rich-
ness approaching some of the
lucerne-flats we saw not far
away. And for this possible
consummation there is nothing
to do but to wait.
Looking at the reverse side of
the coin, other possibilities come
to mind. It may be a physical
impossibility to build-up a real
depth of rich soil on such a farm.
We don’t know —we are in
unexplored territory here.
Perhaps the shale foundations,
on steep slopes, won’t sustain
such a weight—after attaining a
certain depth, the soil, during a
period of abnormal rain, might
slide into the valley.
Let me state here, immediately,
that if some such disaster did
occur, I would be almost as
disappointed as Mr. and Mrs.
Yeofnans. Because, in the soil-
fertility-improvement aspect of
his work, Mr. Yeomans has a
real contribution to make to
Australian agriculture.
About the “keyline” part of
the plan: since seeing it in
operation, I do not think it is an
important part of the Yeomans
system. In practice it seems to
amount to this: At certain levels
he has decided that here water
run-off should be stopped; and
he has done that most effectively.
His big dams are fed by graded
water-diversion banks, in much
the same manner as orthodox
soil - conservationists would
devise. (There seems to be some
ambiguity in his book, which
led both Mr. Woodham and
myself to infer that his water-
diversion banks were parallel to
a “keyline,” and not surveyed
at a safe level, as Mr. Yeomans
has subsequently pointed out.)
His departure from orthodoxy
lies in the fact that below these
banks he plots no more levels,
being content to parallel the
keyline all the way down.
On a farm worked as Nevallan
and Yobarnie are, departures
from the contour are not likely
to lead to any harm. But I regret
Mr. Yeomans’s insistence on tips
point: it not only could lead
to damage when applied in less
favorable circumstances, but it
leads him into a head-on collision
with Soil Conservation officers,
who should be, and could be, the
best friends possible for a man
of Mr. Yeomans’s zeal for land-
restoration.
The only advantage of work-
ing on the keyline seems to be
that it eliminates the need for
marking true levels at intervals
down the slopes. But since, in
order to plot the keyline, it is
necessary to survey and contour-
map the whole of the farm, I
fail to see much saving of time
and labor.
I can’t help suspecting that
“keyline” is the sort of catch-
word that businessmen value in
providing a talking-point. I
doubt if it is likely to be of any
great value in Mr. Yeomans’s
mission, because, with farmers
generally, it is as likely to work
the other way. They are indi-
vidualists, sturdy or obstinate,
as you happen to be viewing
them. Their farms, too, are likely
to present individual problems
not always amenable to the rules
of keyline.
I am assured that there are
cheaper and easier applications
of the keyline principle available
for landowners who can’t run to
the Yobarnie and Nevallan scale
of expenditure. And knowing
Mr. Yeomans, I’d say that
farmers who take his advice are
much more likely to do good
than harm to their ; properties.
There isn’t much in his plan that
orthodox conservationists can
object to, and what there is isn't
so vital, after all.
My own opinion is that Mr.
Yeomans should soft-pedal on
the keyline angle and switch all
his energies to the soil-fertility
aspect of his work. Here every-
one—farmers and experts alike
—can agree that he is likely to
do an immense amount of good.
With his farms so favorably


The Australian Broadcasting Commission
invites you to
Listen to
"LET'S BREAK
THE SOIL BARRIER"
The story of a farming revolution
The Fanil “Nevallan,” near North Richmond, N.S.W.
The Man P. A. Yeomans
Arranged by Fred Widdows
8-15 p.m.
FRIDAY,
11 th February
2BL 2NC 2CY
and ABC regionals
Another programme in the series
THE LAND AND ITS PEOPLE
SHEEP OR
MY FEED
/Kft/
mum*
HIGH POTEHCY
B
a
TRADE
MARK
-easily given by drench is the
most economical, accurate
and convenient method of
supplying vitamins A & D
Sheep subjected to dry feeding are liable to suffer vitamin A
deficiency. Vitamin A is essential for top fertility, good
condition generally, and the healthy growth and development
in young stock. One gallon of High Potency 'VETEMUL'
(£13.13.0) is sufficient for one dose each to 220 sheep
(rams, ewes or weaners) or 320 lambs—only 1 /3d. each for
sheep or lOd. each for lambs. Each dose supplies total vita-
min A requirements for 3 MONTHS. High Potency 'VETE-
MUL' contains 25,000 i.u. vitamin A and 2,500 i.u. vitamin
D per gramme.
High Potency 'VETEMUL/ is obtainable from your Pastoral
House or usual Station Supplier. Write for brochure ( B. )
for full information.
IU/ h&UtA <P£if. J%ds.
AGRICULTURAL & VETERINARY DIVISION
37 Swanston St , Melb. Branches in all States
sited for inspection, the success
of his experiment could have a
major effect on the policy of
banks and other financial
institutions. At present, I
imagine, I would find it hard
to talk such concerns into lend-
ing me the money to develop the
less favored parts of my property
on the Yeomans scale.
But a few more years of the
Yeomans example, and publicity
for it, and we might have a new
era of hope for all those
struggling landowners who are
battling on inferior or
impoverished land.
In this respect Mr. Yeomans
could make a most significant
contribution to the development
of Australia. And I, for one, say
“Jolly good luck to him.”
E. O. SCHLUNKE.
Pruning Experiment
In the Loxton Irrigation Area
of South Australia, district horti-
cultural adviser C. G. Grasby
four years ago embarked on a
pruning experiment that bids
fair to provide a revolutionary
yield from stone-fruit crops.
On the property of E. Brown
a crop worth £lOOO was harvested
from two acres of five-year-old
peach-trees last season. The crop
was much heavier than the
average, the quality was higher
and about 90 per cent, of it was
harvested without the aid of
ladders. The pruning was much
less expensive and the trees were
established more quickly.
Grasby argues that the method
of pruning which has hitherto
been used in irrigation-areas was
evolved for trees grown without
irrigation, in the days of cultiva-
tion by horse-drawn implements,
when pruning had to be adapted
to the rainfall and tillage.
Modern irrigation and imple-
ments now make it possible to
adapt cultivation to a system
of pruning that gives heavier
crops from more vigorous trees.
His main points are: Pruning
is less severe than the old style";
leaders are generally left longer ;
more use is made of watershoots
to broaden the bases of the trees
and give more bearing-wood;
consequently there is more fruit
nearer the ground and the centres
of the trees are allowed to fill
more with watershoots to shield
the main arms.
Speaking of the apricot-trees
on the Brown property, Grasby
said that no fruiting-wood had
been removed from them in the
last four years, and there was no
need to do it. An apricot-tree
in good health and properly
manured would mature all the
fruit it could set.
In a nectarine block, he had
left, last season, what he had
called “coat-hangers” (because of
their resemblance to a lot of
pegs sticking out from the tree).
Now he has decided to call them
“swingers,” many of them being
4ft. long and almost sweep-
ing the ground with their loads
of fruit.
If Grasby is right, the old idea
of pruning peach-trees has gone
overboard. It is not necessary,
for instance, to remove laterals
to force out new-fruiting wood
each year. The new system is
designed to encourage per-
manent fruiting-wood on which
the fruit would he well-spaced
On healthy trees the laterals
could be left from 2ft. to 2ft. 6in.
long, but if they were reduced
to stubs, as in the past, they
remained stubs, and never pro-
duced good permanent fruiting-
wood.
Thinning is most important, if
regular crops of peaches accept-
able to canneries are to be grown.
This season Brown has thinned
all his Golden Queen and Selway
peaches, removing up to 600
fruits from some of the latter
variety.
Last season’s thinning-trials
had shown that a tree carrying
900 peaches would often have as
many as 400 removed, yet when
the yields from the thinned and
unthinned trees were compared
they were practically equal in
weight, and the quality of the
fruit from the thinned trees was
much superior.
Figures support the new
system. Last season’s yields
from one-acre blocks of three
varieties of peaches were:
Elberta 340 cases, Golden Queen
550 cases and Selway 600 cases.
This season’s estimated yields:
Elberta 600 cases, Golden Queen
700 and Selway 800. These trees
were six years old last winter.
S. E.
Cockchafers
“Mulcra”: If small black
beetles about i-in. long get in
your hair or fly around your
lights on hot humid evenings,
you’re likely to have cockchafer-
grubs in your pastures later in
the year.
The creamy grub with a yellow
head chews-up the ground and
leaves it bare. Topdressed sub.-
clover which, has been down, for
several years is most likely to be
attacked.
Watch for bare patches in
pasture and treat them as soon
as you see them. Neglect could
mean loss of feed, dust in the
wool, and, perhaps, erosion.
Topdress the patches, or
pastures likely to be affected,
with 4oz. of lindane an acre in as
much super, as you like. Best
to do the job before the end of
February. Firms will mix the
fertiliser to your specification if
you like.
Fruit-trees after Fire
“C.A.A.”: Where fires have
been severe in agricultural areas,
South Australian orchard-experts
advise that damaged fruit-trees
should not be touched at this
stage, as they have excellent
powers of recovery and new
shoots may be expected from
dormant buds.
Pruning of cherry-trees and
other stone-fruits could be com-
menced as soon as shoots begin
to show out clearly. This, the
S.A. men say, will minimise the
risk 'of silver-leaf infection;
wounds should be painted as an
additional precaution.
Irrigated stone-fruit trees will
benefit from light dressings of
sulphate-of-ammonia, but non-
irrigated trees should not be
fertilised.
Where trees lose their leaves
through any cause there is danger
of sunburn. Spray with white-
wash as a safeguard.
Seasonal Sheep-
dangers
“Paignie”: Keep sheep away
from stinkwort once it starts to
flower in the autumn. In Vic-
toria some call stinkwort “Mallee
lucerne,” but it can be a killer
once the spines from its flowers
begin to scratch around a sheep’s
inside.
The irritation stirs up the
“pulpy-kidney” germ, which
produces a poison. Usually kills
without warning, and often takes
the best-looking sheep. Be pre-
pared for more deaths up to a
week after taking sheep off
stinkwort.
Best way to prevent deaths is
to keep the flock off the weed.
Next-best method is to vaccinate
with “pulpy-kidney” vaccine.
The other trouble to avoid is
“twin-lamb” disease (pregnancy-
toxaemia). Control of this is
easy—just make sure of giving
your ewes plenty of good food
in tjie six weeks before they
lamb.
Good oats and hay will pay
for themselves in good lambs,
live ewes and better wool.
Pregnancy-toxaemia can kill ewes
with “single” lambs as well as
those with twins. Cure is
unlikely once the disease strikes
a ewe.
Farm Hints
“N.”: Don’t waste time and
energy trying to count fowls in
the yard. Count ’em on their
roosts, at night, with the aid of
a torch. If the job is done
quietly the hens won’t be
unsettled.
“Big Billy”: Care in watering
lawns during the summer will
reduce the need for constant
mowing. Apply sufficient
moisture to keep the grass green
and avoid the overapplications
that will bring on prolific growth.
Lift the mower-blades, so that
cutting is not too close. Some
protective covering of foliage
is necessary to shade the roots
near .the surface during the hot,
dry months. Keep the more
resistant broad-leafed weeds in
check to prevent them from
smothering patches of grass.
“S.C.”: Paint is a good invest-
ment. All permanent structures,
should be painted regularly.
Apart from the preserving of
timber and metal, there’s the
appearance of the farmhouse—
often spoilt by drab, unpainted
outbuildings.
“Bongo”: To clean a greasy
kitchen-wall, make a solution of
lime and water (6oz. hydrated
lime to lgal. of water). Allow
to settle, then use the clear water
(not the sediment) to wash down
or scrub off the grease.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
The Uranian cycle indicated good rains at the end of
January and early in February. Should this cycle become
the controlling factor, good rains may fall throughout New
South Wales, extending to Victoria and South Australia.
On the coast falls should be heavy, particularly during
April and May, but rains should be very light from June to
October.
LENNOX WALKER


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney :
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
fm
** ;;;
i?
i
i *■!
■
mm 1' a „ 1? J ■ ; f%yf r o^:. :
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious . Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONIiY RATES:
Single Rooms—
From 15/- per day
Double Rooms—
From 27/- per day
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
’METROPOLE ”
Telephone No. B0522
(16 lines).
HE HAS A
. . ; BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARBERE
No Pads —
| No Springs
The NEO-BARKEEE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You -will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARKBKE distribution CO.
(Dept. 3h), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
of crows; it drowns them with
the sound of the engine and of
the tyres on the road; and I
found myself dozing.
Canegrass was once a watering-
place on the road to Goongarrie,
where one party in the early days
was charged £7 10s. for drinks
for the travellers and their two
horses.
At Goongarrie there were
several houses, and in the
distance a great expanse of
water, as pleasant as any mirage,
with suggestions of white sandy
shores, and blue depths. The
Roaring Gimlet Mine .took its
name from the noise which the
wind makes in the gimlet-trees,
but the name was changed to
Goongarrie (which means some-
thing rude).
Dan Baker, searching for,
water out from Goongarrie, was
the first white man to reach
Comet Vale. Climbing a
prominent hill, now known as
Baker’s Lookout, he saw a large
granite outcrop, with good grass
and a profusion of flowers and
luxurious bush. There were
various prominent mines there
later, including the Sand Queen,
a mine which was dangerous
with creeping sand. Comet Vale
seemed deserted. We saw a
tower above an old shaft, a
chimney and rusting machinery.
This was the site of the Sand
Queen, where I believe some
scheelite is now being mined.
The road seemed to run on for
ever. Topping a rise we would
find it stretching ahead like a
ribbon as far as we could see,, on
and on, and out of sight at last
at the horizon.
Menzie discovered gold at the
spot now known as Menzies,
when his camel stumbled over
the quartz-gold floaters which
littered the surface of the ground.
Two of the mines there were
named after Crusoe and Friday.
Menzies soon became a town,
buildings mushroomed up,
including 13 hotels, with the
usual trimmings, brass-bands
and fire-brigades.
Menzies is a scattered town-
ship. Broken carts rot in the
dust and the roads wander every-
where. We passed a native with
a billy-can in each hand, and a
loaf of bread on his head. In
the main street there are the
ruined stone-w'alls of former
pubs and banks, and a sprinkling
of homes and stores. Once there
were three daily papers. :
We called on Mr. Lane, a
hospitable bachelor, who plied
us with lime-syrup while tabby
kittens tumbled all over us, and
he replaced our hub-cap with
the statement: “It won’t come
off now!” But these proved to
be as vain as most Famous Last
Words.
At the one remaining hotel we
had lunch in a dining-room with
drawn shutters and a fan to
combat the heat. There we met
the Bennetts., Mrs. Bennett is a
cheery soul. We asked for
bread-and-cheese and a pickled-
onion, but received a delightful
meal, including a welcome jug of
ice-cold water. She told us that
she was a “Pom,” and she and
her husband had travelled a lot-
in the bush, prospecting and
living on hard rations, and she
gossiped about the ghost-towns.
“What will it be?” asked the
rector when we were leaving.
“On the house,” said Mrs.
Bennett. “We never charge a
wearer of the cloth!”
“What about mine?” I asked.
“I don’t wear the cloth!”
“What will we do with him?”
she chanted. “He’s such a shy
young man. I’ll tell you what.
I’ll be a real Aussie and toss you
for it. Where’s your coin?
Heads it will be ss. 6d. Tails you
go free.” She didn’t stand to win
anything. I tossed and it was
tails. We shook hands with the
Dinkum Aussie, and I went
away with the rector, feeling, as
a shy young man should, like a
thief among princes.
We saw only a handful of
people in town. “But on Satur-
day nights,” said Mr. Lane,
“you should see them! They
come from miles!” Later we
learned that a previous licensee
had willed that beer should be
free at the pub every Saturday
night for 15 minutes.
(To be continued next week )
Father took one hand out of
a pocket and cuddled Gertrude’s
hand with it. He went on talk-
ing. Gertrude looked backward
at Sooky despairingly. Sooky
hung her head and stared at the
ground. It was frightening stand-
ing there without Gertrude. She
was ready to swing found on her
heel and run if anyone spoke to
her.
At last people began drifting
towards their cars. Father hung
on till the last moment, follow-
ing each of his friends in turn to
their cars, towing Gertrude
behind him, and standing with
his foot on the running-board
talking. They were last to leave.
nr HE PRAIRIES was in the
middle of a plain and noted
“Tradesman s entrance round the hack!"
for the mirages dancing all round
it. Before it was The Prairies
it had been called Dead-Men’s
Waterhole, because of the thirsty
men who crawled there and died.
When old Mrs. Buzacott had
been young Mrs. Buzacott she
had been thought brave to choose
to live in such a haunted spot.
Sooky wriggled ecstatically.
However, Father’s reminiscences
were drowned in protests from
Mother as he “let her out” on the
straight flat road. The unin-
habited air of the plain whizzed
past and the Buzacott house
popped up unexpectedly. First
there was nothing, then a square
house with a shining roof, a
chimney from which smoke
puffed, and two cedar-trees in
full bloom at the side of it. The
scent of cedar-blossoms hurried
towards them with the air.
Father pulled up.
“Did you have to, Edward?”
Mother asked distantly.
Father laughed good-
humoredly. “No bones broken,
m’ dear. The sooner we’re here,
the sooner away.”
“Indeed!” said Mother. “I
imagine we will have to sit till
five-o’clock, just the same.”
. The front of the house was
orderly; no chooks scratching,
and flowers keeping to themselves
in their own beds. The front
veranda was beautifully white.
The blinds were drawn at the
windows, and a polished brass
knocker glowed against the cedar
door. Father lifted the knocker
and gave a sharp rat-a-tat.
Gertrude and Sooky clasped
hands and wriggled. Here they
were at Buzacott’s.
The door was opened by a
little old woman, not as tall as
Gertrude and as thin as Sooky,
with wispy hair and a large
white apron.
“Oh, Aunt Emma,” cried
Mother, “how lovely to see you
again”; and she put out her
hand.
Aunt Emma ignored it,
motioned with her own hand
and said impatiently, “Come in,
come in. What a crowd! What
a crowd! But she would have
her own way, and me with only
one pair of hands. Half-grown
children indeed! They’re young
women. Come in, come in, or
me gravy’ll catch.”
They were ushered into the
front room and the little woman
flustered out. Figures rose in
the gloom. Not used to this
funereal darkness Gertrude and
Sooky found it enchanting. It
was like a game, because whereas
they couldn’t see they could be
seen. Without shyness they
extended their paws and had
them clasped by large masculine
hands; they knew old Mr.
Buzacott by his beard tickling
their chins, old Mrs. Buzacott
by her prickly top lip.
The figures melted back into
chairs, Mother went in the direc-
tion of old Mrs. Buzacott,
Father towards old Mr. Buza-
cott. They found themselves
seated side by side on a horse-
hair sofa. For some time Miss
Elmer appeared to be stranded
in the centre of the room. Then
she subsided on a hard chair by
a little round table.
OBJECTS began to emerge.
There was a clock on the
mantelpiece and a fluted vase
with peacock feathers. The cloth
on the little table had pom-
poms round the edges.
This was amusing, and before
they had a chance to weary the
little old woman hurried in
again and said dinner was ready;
come and have it if they wanted
it hot. The figures all rose
again, and they passed into
another room where the blinds
were also drawn and they had to
begin all oyer making things out.
The dinner was like any other
dinner only for the excitement
of not knowing what was going
into one’s mouth. Sooky choked
on parsnip, Gertrude shuddered
as cabbage slipped down her
throat.
By the time they were back in
the front room everything could
be seen plainly. The hands of
the clock stood at ,two.
Five, Mother had said. We
will have to sit till five. It was
then Sooky got the sinking feel-
ing. Glancing at Gertrude she
saw she had it, too. There was
no longer the fine excitement of
going to Buzacott’s. They were
there.
“We must endure,” Sooky
whispered.
“Again,” mourned Gertrude.
“Why is it always the same?”
“There is something, some-
where,” comforted Sooky.
“I wish I hadn’t wasted
church.”
“Me, too.” ,
“Little girls should be seen
and not heard,” said old Mrs.
Buzacott in a surprisingly loud
voice.
They subsided. Mother talked
to old Mrs. Buzacott, Father
shouted at old Mr. Buzacott,
who had to keep his hand cupped
about his ear to hear , what was
said.
The men with the manly
names such as Bill and Tom and
Dan slept in their chairs with
their legs stretched out and their
moustaches rising from their
whistling breath. Miss Elmer sat
at the little table pleating the
cloth with her fingers.
As the afternoon wore on
Mother’s voice grew brighter
and brighter and thinner and
thinner. Father’s grew huskier.
T>UT at last the clock chimed
five. Everyone rose; leave-
taking began. Gertrude and
Sooky went dutifully towards old
Mrs. Buzacott. Gertrude put up
her face to be kissed. “Thank
you very much,” she said. “I
had a lovely day.”
Sooky offered her crimped-up
face. “Thank you very much.
I enjoyed the coming.”
“I’m pleased you had a happy
day,” said old Mrs. Buzacott.
“But I didn’t. I enjoyed
coming.”
“What does the child mean?”
demanded the old woman,
sharply.
Mother grasped Sooky’s arm
and pulled her away. “Come on,
come on. We must go. It’s grow-
ing late, the cow and the
fowls”
Sooky was wriggling under
Mother’s hand, with her head
turned towards old Mrs.
Buzacott. “I mean—l mean”
“You don’t mean anything,”
said Mother, hauling her away.
“But I do,” wailed Sooky.
“Well, don’t say it. Nobody
says what they mean.”
“You mean”
“Be quiet,” hissed Mother.
- “T'MD you ever,” , Sooky said
to Gertrude later that even-
ing as they climbed into bed.
“Mother admitted that she never
means what she says.”
Gertrude snuggled down and
yawned. Sooky curled up beside
her. Then she gave an ecstatic
wriggle. “Oh, Gertrude! Wasn't
it lovely last night when we were
going to The Prairies to-
morrow?”
constable who had made the
arrest, and from him got some
more quotes. The constable
had reached the park moments
after the shooting. Someone
told him the man had jumped
in a taxi which drove off along
a certain road. The constable
had taken-off on his motor-
cycle down that road, stopping
every cab he came to. In the
third there was a man with
blood on his face. The con-
stable had asked him if he had
a gun. The man had pointed
to the Mauser on the floor at his
feet
Roundsmen find that indi-
vidual police are embarrassed by
the feeling that the public must
think less of them because of
the publicised aroma surround-
ing some members of the Force.
After all, police have been
badly -slated. in royal commis-
sions and courts of law. But
others have earned high praise.
The community is hardly likely
to want to chop down a good
tree because it has a few bits of
dead wood on it.
One Saturday morning Con-
stable Beveridge was walking
down William-street, Sydney,
with a bunch of pawn-slips in
his hand. . These slips list stolen
goods and are shown to. pawn-
brokers as a check against goods
pledged to them.
After he had shown a slip to
the pawnbroker Constable
Beveridge chanced to speak to a
man who was in the shop with a
blonde woman. The man put
his hand in his overcoat pocket
and pulled it out again. He had
changed his mind, - but he
couldn’t bring back the .45
bullet which fell to the floor
from his pocket.
The constable grabbed the
man and immediately found a
revolver pressing against his
stomach. He pulled the man
down and they rolled all over
the floor of the shop. The
blonde was screaming. Beveridge
fought the man for a quarter of
an hour before he took the
revolver from him and slipped
a handcuff on one of his wrists.
The man still fought, but the
other handcuff was snapped into
place. ; 7
The constable then drew his
own pistol and covered the man
while he searched him. He found
the man’s revolver fully loaded.
His overcoat pocket was full of
heavy .45 bullets. The constable
took him to Darlinghurst police-
station and the man was later
charged with a whole series of
armed hold-ups. Constable
Beveridge, by the way, was a
married man with one young son
at that time.
Any police-roundsman will tell
you there are plenty more like
him in the Force.


Available from all booksellers
Marcia Davenport
My Brothers Keeper
“What a book this is! A truly superb novel.”
—London Daily Express
“The best she has written. A book of tremendous power.”
Herald. 512 pages, 1819
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
CHAMBERS’S SHORTER ENGLISH
DICTIONARY.
This dictionary, which contains a
special supplement of Australian and
New Zealand words, is a most useful
work of reference at low cost. Ulus.
13/6 (Post 1/ld.)
CHAMBERS’S TWENTIETH
CENTURY DICTIONARY.
Completely revised, and in addition
containing many words which have
never appeared before in dictionaries.
35/- (post 2/ld.)
THE POCKET OXFORD DICTION-
ARY.
—the result of more than half a century
of research, the source of most of the
information being the Oxford
Dictionary. Fourth and revised edition.
13/3 (post lid.)
CONCISE OXFORD DICTIONARY.
This completely revised and reset
edition is “not only without a superior,
it is literally without a rival.” (The
Scotsman.)
37/3 (post l/3d.)
Write, ’phone or call in for these, and all the books you want to .. .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
skis barely touched the ground
and dragged across the surface of
the snow. We saw the deep ruts
made by the skis and realised
with a shock that the snow was
much deeper than we had antici-
pated ...
Inspected from the ground, the
island fulfilled all its promise of
inhospitality: —
A C-54 dived and thundered
across our heads. The General
staggered back through the deep
snow, a black silhouette against
the yellow r sky. He told Joe that
he failed to see how any man
could live on “this thing.” “Let’s
get out of here while we can,” he .
said.
Subsequent investigation, after they
decided to stay, revealed a few traces
of glacial moraine and the frozen
remains of a lemming, confirming the
theory that the island had once been
comfortably attached to Ellesmere
Island; and there were also, for com-
pany, the tracks of a polar-bear seen
in April, 1952, and a total of eight
sea-birds noted during the entire
summer. The sea, inspected through
holes in the pack-ice, provided no fish
or seals, “although two specimens of
zooplankton (a shrimp and a jelly-
fish) were collected early in the
summer.”
Not much, after all, however
interesting the locality may be, can be
written about one shrimp and one
jellyfish; and so, when he has described
the landing and the first setting-up of
tents and building of snow-huts, with
a few notes on food, clothing, weather
and global strategy, Dr. Rodahl has
exhausted his subject.
He expands the story to book-
length by a rather thin survey of polar
history in which we meet Nansen
setting out in the Fram with five years’
provisions, hoping to drift with the
pack-ice to the Pole and spending 35
months locked in the frozen prison
until they broke free north-west of
Spitsbergen on August 13, 1896; Peary
with incredible gallantry making his
repeated attempts to sledge over the
pack-ice until, with his negro com-
panion Matt Henson and his faithful
Eskimo Ootah (still alive and met by
Dr. Rodahl a few years ago), he
reached the Pole at last on April 6,
1909; and the fantastic Andree, who
tried to float to the Pole in a balloon
in 1897 and who may have succumbed
(after his crash) not to carbon-
monoxide poisoning as has been previ-
ously thought, but, so Dr. Rodahl
believes, to the disease known as
trichinosis, picked up from eating too
many polar-bears. As the polar-bear’s
liver also contains a lethal dose of
Vitamin A, this is obviously a diet of
which one should beware.
T. S. Eliot's New Poem
Such is T. S. Eliot’s prestige that a
new poem by him is an event; and such
also is his prestige, alas, that one
always expects the poem to be out-
standing. But in truth the prosaic style
and parsonical cadences of “Four
Quartets” and “The Confidential
Clerk” seem to have become his nor-
mal mode of utterance in later years,
and “The Cultivation of Christmas
Trees” in Faber’s latest set of Arid
poems reads far too literally and
blankly like the “Mr. Eliot’s Sunday
Morning Service” of which he wrote
much more spiritedly years ago.
Thirty-five lines of blank verse, per-
fectly straightforward and lucid (this
at least must now be granted by those
who have found Mr. Eliot obscure in
the past), the poem appears to be ah
extract from a “work in progress,”
perhaps on the lines of the “Quartets.”
One prefers to wait for the finished
work, if there is to be one, before com-
menting further; except to note the
sermonising style of the opening:—
There are several attitudes towards
Christmas,
Some of which we may disregard:
The social, the torpid, the
patently commercial,
The rowdy (the pubs being open
till midnight) ...
and the hint of a more dramatic utter-
ance in the conclusion:—
So that before the end, the
eightieth Christmas
(By “eightieth” meaning which-
ever is the last)
The accumulated memories of
annual emotion
May be concentrated into a great
joy
Which shall be also a great fear,
as on the occasion
When fear came upon every soul:
Because the beginning shall remind
us of the end
And the first coming of the second
coming.
Other new Ariels include C. Day
Lewis saying, much more poetically,
much the same thing as Mr. Eliot about
the child’s vision of Christmas; Walter
de la Mare skilful as ever but rather
slight in “The Winnowing Dream”;
and W. H. Auden being cynical about
“Mountains” in a style short-winded
but amusing.
Reviewed Briefly
“The Queen’s Countrywomen”:
Godfrey Winn (Hutchinson). This is a
catchpenny title for a book about con-
temporary Englishwomen, the nearest
to Royalty of whom is Countess
Mountbatten of Burma. The author
interviews and describes in competent
journalistic style a variety of women
from Gracie Fields in Capri to the
wife of a Welsh miner; others are the
head of the 8.8.C.’s “Woman’s Hour”
and Mrs. Kelley, who is in charge of
the women’s prison of Askham Grange.
* * * *
“The Ski and the Mountain”:
Thomas Paynter (Hurst and Blackett).
The author is an instructor who has
been skiing and climbing for 25 years
in the Alps, Canada, Norway and
Great Britain; from which long experi-
ence he distils reminiscences for the
general reader of mountaineering books
and practical advice for novices. He
says he knew an Austrian lady who
started to learn skiing at 70 and was
still going strong at 73.
* * * *
Recent additions to Everyman’s
Library include “Everyman’s Diction-
ary of Music,” edited by Eric Blom
revised and enlarged; and John Hamp-
den’s anthology of “Twenty-four One-
Act Plays,” enlarged by the inclusion
of Sean O’Casey’s amusing little sketch
of two drunks in a post-office (“A
Pound on Demand”), W. B. Yeats’s
“The Dreaming of the Bones,” with
not enough life in its ghostly Irish
history, and Wolf Mankowitz’s “The
Bespoke Overcoat,” an appealing tragi-
comedy of an old Jewish clerk who
dies of cold and hunger when he is
sacked, and returns to life to steal an
overcoat from his late employer.
* * * *
“Thoughts of My Cats”: Bruce Mar-
shall (Constable). A curious, jaunty
little book in which Mr. Marshall mixes
light-hearted theology with anecdotes
about the cats he kept in Paris: “The
only interest Uncle George took in my
spiritual welfare was to ask me once,
in the presence of Tosh, if I had ever
seen a photograph of the Holy Ghost.
Tosh didn’t stir a whisker at this
floater, although I suspect he knew
more about theology than Uncle
George. But I loved Uncle George
as much as I loved Tosh, and if stock-
brokers as well as cats can sneak past
H. G. Wells, I hope that Uncle George
is up there, too, too-hooing away on a
trumpet.” A little less too-hooing
would help the cats.
* * * *
“The Victim Was Important”: Joe
Rayter (Reinhardt). Mr. Rayter’s San
Francisco private-eye is engaged by a
wealthy slug to investigate the murder
of a woman-psychiatrist. A group of
patients, husbands and acquaintances
is listed for his research; and there is
an interesting clue: the murderee’s
changed appearance in a photograph
taken some years after a previous
photograph. Mr. Ray ter goes a little
humorlessly about this business, and
though he manages to interest one in
his matter-of-fact portraits of one or
two of the suspects, he does not
contrive a satisfying solution.
* .* * *
“Victorian Love Story”: Nerina
Shute (Jarrolds). Sub-titled “A Novel
of Rossetti,” this is a tasteful, but
studied, album-collection of Victorian
portraits rendered, however, rather in
technicolor than in faded sepia. The
tangled ramifications of the Pre-
Raphaelite Brotherhood make won-
derful material for a novelist as skilful
as Nerina Shute. Rossetti does not
emerge as a clear portrait until the
compassionate final pages—earlier one
sees more distinctly the elegant Mr.
Ruskin, the disdainful John Millais
and Rossetti’s beloved if bewildered
Lizzie (Elizabeth Siddal). This is a
very sure and readable book, almost a
comedy of manners. The endpapers
are four fine reproductions of some
of Rossetti’s best-known works, which
fittingly illustrate the leading feminine
characters.
* * * *
“Intrigue”: Desmond Cory (Shake-
speare Head). Mr. Cory’s secret-
service hero, Johnny Fedora, goes to
Trieste to try to trace the organisation
behind an arrested spy; he meets a
beautiful young woman, and, after
some ingenious violence, comes to grip
with a master-spy and a bit of a sur-
prise; and the book ends with a launch-
trip to prevent an assassination. Mr.
Cory has a deft touch with realism, but
otherwise his book is like most spy-
stories.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 316
Across
I—An1 —An unprecedented thrust with a
spade swallowed a famous Oxford
prize for verse. (9)
6- —A Moslem princess is to live
with a tree. (5)
B—Praise8 —Praise came back double. (4)
10 —Librarian tune modifies Arne’s
most famous composition. (4, 9)
12—Mire. (3)
14^—Encourage the estrangement of a
right swallowed. (8)
15—Mother and her sister muddled
an Italian city. (6)
17— Wombat dropping at the matrix.
(4)
18 — Glass craft. (8)
20 — The Maori current to add the
radii that trisect a circle container
for pre-brewed cha. (3-5)
21 — Cooked a direction named after
Bradman. (4)
23 —-Wood duck has a boy on the
alternative offered by Petri, the
pianist State. (6)
25 — Rooms not available from a
Conrad novel. (8)
26 — Tee-less weight comes back. (3)
28—A good conductor is the first
part in collecting the other part
in such ways. (13)
30 — Maiden at the cricket-ground has
nothing against the Queen. (4)
31 — Queen is a spinster of arts. (5)
32 — Sore Swede disturbed by a
broadcaster. (4-5)
Down
1 — A comic sagacity of William the
Conqueror and his folk. (6, 6)
2 Bills on the standing timber tee
where a Sydneyite might buy a
car. (7, 6)
3 Bound to have you thus waiting
the payment of Customs duties.
(2, 4)
4 patrician artist Cora knocked
about. (10)
5 Cheese is made up. (4)
6 Miss Christie joins the orchestra
with a handkerchief. (8)
7 High-priest of Shiloh. (3)
9 —“ E pluribus ” (4)
11—Chasing a he-cat or a hullabaloo,
but not within 48 hours. (5, 8)
13 —B.A.’s blue error with a
demagogue. (6-6)
16— Possibly a dead-language course
for the summer? (4, 6)
19_p e er over the eggs with a
ballerina. (8)
22 —Corpses quarrel in a steamer
(6)
24—A small number about a sandbank
at the Thames mouth. (4)
27 —Crags’ clean-shaven motors. (4)
29 —Artless Australian capital is a
clownish fellow, a rustic, a
fairy. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 315


>!
£K
ti
35
‘~Jr*
_
»■!> —£»
a\
£1
fcp’r;
r
sr
tCVv
*w«
£
**
s
BCS
§?
w-A
*S
\"\
N
M i
\ It
ap
2.
as*.
s»^|Ss
s%«Sfe
<■*>
*» &
***
..., ,*:^357re35& .••_■,•.-.-..
V»*«? : ¥%»~f i '*‘‘;*trsi •s?'».•'it''*..' ‘^^“JTgzx l—r:r*..-c>*;«—'■» -'c. ■j&r^i-'it&S ..•**•*». „
iKSIi
‘v&'Zp-
**!%!*
66
m
Bundeena is a small seaside village without a water supply on the
isolated perimeter of rugged Royal National Park, New South Wales.
Not for a long time will its 1,600 inhabitants forget that hot
November day of the fire. Nor will they forget how two courageous
men with a machine saved the township from destruction.
Nobody knows how the bushfire started, but within seconds the
strong south-easterly was whipping the flames sixty feet into the
air. Housewives struggled to save their most precious possessions;
schoolchildren were herded onto the beach, the settlement’s last
retreat.
As reported in the “Sydney Morning Herald,” November 23, 1954,
here’s what happened then, in the actual words of Werna Grieve,
owner of a Caterpillar D 6 Tractor, equipped with a No. 25 Steelweld
Cable Control and No. 6S Steelweld Bulldozer.
“My driver, Don Mountstephen, and I were having a meal when the
little boy rushed in, hysterical, with tears running down his face.
“We tore outside and saw great clouds of smoke billowing skywards
at the back of Bundeena.
“I yelled to Don: ‘We’d better get a move on,’ and drove the ’dozer
for a swamp at the south-west corner of the town.
“Flames roaring 60 feet high were skipping across the swamp when
we got there.
“We began cutting a path along the edge of the swamp to try to
cut the flames off. But, within a few seconds, the fire was on us.
“ 4 We won’t be able to stand this much longer,’ I shouted.
“The flames were licking the sides of the bulldozer. Then, with a
‘whoosh l’ the trees over our head exploded in a ball of flame. Two
firefighters, almost the only other men in town at the time, were
screaming to us, ‘Get back, get back. You’ll be burnt to death.’
“I didn’t hesitate. I jumped for it and crouched on the other side
of the ’dozer.
“Don didn’t hesitate either. He reversed the ’dozer and tore through
the flames, with me running inches behind back to safety.
“Then we took the ’dozer to the hill above the town. The fire roared
up an 80-foot cliff and it was threatening scores of homes.
“Don began to cut a path in front of the flames.
“I was clinging to the side of the ’dozer and trying to direct him.
We could cut a path only by guesswork. The smoke was blinding
and tears were streaming from our eyes.
“In Bournemouth Street we were nearly trapped again. A wall of
flame shot over the bulldozer as we crouched on it.
“As the fire swept along the edge of the town, bush 100 yards in
front of it burst into flame from the heat.
“At 3 o’clock firefighters began to arrive from Cronulla, across
the bay. But we kept going.
“We cleared a break, in some places 70 feet wide, around the town.
I placed four men at points along the edge of the fire, each with
a small boy to act as runner.
“In that way, with handkerchiefs tied across our noses and mouths,
we were guided through the smoke and were able to cut a path
along the edge of the fire.
“We kept at it until 5 o’clock. By that time we were both exhausted.
“Don Mountstephen was the hero of the day. He drove that bulldozer
like a man possessed.
“God only knows what would have happened if it hadn’t been for
him—and our Caterpillar D 6.”
The people of Bundeena know now the value of a fire-break. There’ll
be no repetition of the November near-tragedy. All over Australia
the grim fight against the million-pound menace of the bushfire is
being fought with rugged, powerful Caterpillar track-type Tractors.
Men with foresight are using the big yellow machines, clearing
potentially dangerous undergrowth and tinder-like scrub . . . big,
powerful machines in the hands of men determined to protect the
soil and the crops Australia needs.
★ ★ ★ ★
This is bushfire weather. Be careful —make sure your campfire is
out; extinguish your cigarette; blow out your match and break it.
Don’t piety with fire —the price of entertainment runs into millions.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
, . _=**
Distributors:
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
QLD.: HASTINGS DEERING (QLD.) PTY. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
TAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., ENFIELD.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DIESELS LTD., ALICE
SPRINGS.
T. GUINEA: HASTINGS DIESELS {NEW GUINEA)
LIMITED, LAE.
