

THE HOUSE . *£*s>£s OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
HUMOR AND CARTOON FEATURES
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76 —No. 3911
-Wednesday, January 26, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
FEUDAL ENGLAND IS SPLENDIDLY PRESERVED AT BEAULIEU'S PALACE HOUSE
PALACE HOUSE, the ancestral home of Lord Montagu of Beaulieu, stands
beside the Beaulieu River, which flows through the leafy glades of the New
Forest, fourteen miles from Southampton.
Palace House was originally the great Gate House of Beaulieu Abbey,
founded in 1204 by King John. After completion in 1246 the buildings were
occupied by Cistercian monks from France. It was there that the rebel, Perkin
Warbeck, was given sanctuary after escaping from the Army of Henry VII
at Taunton. He was persuaded to give himself up on the promise of his life
but later he died a traitor’s death on the scaffold at Tyburn in London.
The great Abbey church did not survive the Dissolution of the Monasteries
in the reign of King Henry VIII. Soon after that event, in 1539, the property
passed to the Earl of Southampton and later, by marriage, to the Montagues.
The best preserved buildings of the Abbey are the western range, containing
the Early English refectory, now converted into the Parish Church. Also in
this range is the dormitory of the lay brothers, altered soon after the Dissolution
for residential purposes. A building which still exists on the north side of
the church was used by the monks as a brewery, and beyond it were their
vineyards. , . .
The ancient monastic origin of Palace House, converted m 1538, js at
once evident in the 13th century entrance hall, with its noble fireplace and
highly polished refectory table of solid elm, sixteen feet long and inches
thick. Adjoining, is another beautiful vaulted apartment which now houses
an interesting museum of ships—a link with the tiny hamlet of Buckler’s Hard
on the Beaulieu estate, where some of England’s famous wooden men-o’-war
were built between 1745 and 1818. Among them were Agamemnon (in which
Nelson lost his right eye), also Swiftsure and Euralyus, which took part in
the Battle of Trafalgar. After launching, they were towed to Portsmouth for
completion. , ,
Another famous museum at Beaulieu, the only one of its kind in Britain,
houses a collection of ancient motor-cars. Some of the veterans look as fresh
as when they left the factory, and they can still put up a respectable perform-
ance on the roads. There, also, can be seen a police summons issued to Lord
Montagu in 1902 for exceeding the speed limit of 12 m.p.h.


BOOKHUNTER will save you time. Let
BOOKHUNTER, 40 Mona Road, Darling
Point, select and buy your reading matter.
Write to BOOKHUNTER indicating your
taste in books.
The Red Page
SIR ALFRED STEPHEN
Ruth Bedford’s Think of Stephen
(Angus and Robertson) might best be
described as a picture of the family-hle
of a judge. .
Sir Alfred Stephen was N. S. Wales
Chief Justice for nearly 30 years. Recall-
him as he appears in some bushranging
history, one sees him stern and bewigged
at the bench of the Central Criminal
Court in Sydney, addressing to the Clarke
brothers his solemn and memorable
homily:
Prisoners Thomas and John Clarke.. • «the
murders believed to have been committed
by you bushrangers are appalling to tninK
of How many wives made widows ana
children made orphans! What loss of
property, what sorrow have you bush-
rangers caused!.... I say this is hori lble.
Much as I dread crime, and much as I have
had to do with the punishment of criminals,
I don’t know anything in the world that
could furnish such a long list of horrors
as that which I have laid before this
crowded court tonight. And yet these bush-
rangers, the scum of the earth, the lowest
of the low, are occasionally held up for our
admiration You, young men, have now
to receive the last sentence of the law.
You will pass from the country which you
might have helped to raise in the estimation
of the world. You will pass out of the
world felons, convicts, bushrangers and, 1
very much fear, murderers.
And one reads in Think of Stephen, to
take a typical quotation:
The garden is going on nicely. I am very
anxious that you should be pleased with it
and am not sparing in my earnest requests
to the gardener that he will have it in the
nicest order by your return. The goose-
berries are very fine, but not one snail ue
touched till you come home. All the good
cheese is to be reserved till then. Porter,
cheese & everything.... My great delight is
to do everything that will please you on
your return —for that reason I will receive
you in a dress of my own making 1 hope
you do not often meet that odious woman
Mrs A. I am given to understand she
will make everybody flirt with her, married
or single. Let me entreat you, if she
begins any of this nonsense, to give her the
repulse & rebuke she ought to receive from
a married man.
That is a letter from Virginia, Sir
Alfred’s first wife, written from Tasmania
in the early days of their marriage when
he was visiting the perilous metropolis of
Sydney. Who the “odious” Mrs. A. may
have been Miss Bedford does not say.
Delightful as wifely letters of this kind
are, Miss Bedford is surely in error when
she supposes that Sir Alfred’s career as
a judge and as first ' President of the
N. S. Wales Legislative Council—opening
which he said with high hopes, “Let not
the prediction be thought visionary, that
within these walls no sinister object, no
unworthy motive will ever be found to
intrude” —would not be “interesting to
the general reader”; and it is a little
odd to find the author herself, about half-
way through her narrative, becoming
“uneasily aware that this book is turning
into a history of Grandmama rather than
a biography of Sir Alfred Stephen.”
But the only thing to do with a book
which has thus little to say about the
judge as a judge and’ which lacks the
professional polish and organisation one
has come to expect in Australian histori-
cal biography is to take it on its own
terms: for its spontaneous, impulsive,
very natural, intensely feminine style;
for its valuable account of a family which
(connected in England with, as welt as
many legal luminaries, Leslie Stephen,
editor of the “CornhiU” and father of
Virginia Woolf) has contributed four
generations of judges to N. S. Wales;
and more —since this is Miss Bedford’s
real concern —for its intimate and charm-
ing pictures of domestic life . . . births,
marriages, deaths, picnics, dresses,
gardens and garden-parties.
The shooting of the then Duke of
Edinburgh, Prince Alfred, at Sydney’s
favorite picnic-ground of Clontarf, on
March 12, 1868, is Miss Bedford’s
dramatic highlight. She prints several
eyewitness accounts of this startling
affair, from the diary of her grandmother
(Eleanor Bedford; Sir Alfred’s second
wife) and from family letters:
Fancy a staid old churchman like Alexr.
Stuart when at the Picnic running about
with a carving-knife to stab O’Farrell. —
rushing to get at him with oaths and impre-
cations —and on my father saying gently to
him No, no, Stuart —let the law take its
course—his exclaiming D you and the
law let me rip the scoundrel up.
Your friend Mr. Learmont I hear was in a
frightful state of excitement. You can form
no idea what a scene it must have been
from the extracts in the papers. Ladies too
strong to faint were screeching to cut him
to pieces with scissors. Steady old attorneys
with hundreds to help them running
ropes over extempore gibbets.. •
says that if the jury find O’Farrell to be
insane neither they nor AspinaU nor the
prisoner will live through the day.
But for the most part, if sometimes
tragic in the deaths of children the
domestic history is naturally on a calmer
level-describing Tasmanian and Sydney
life when Woolloomooloo was fashionable
and Mulgoa “inaccessible,” when Dr.
Bland could opine that the human
shoulderblades were formed to support
wings, when Bishop Patterson would
drop-in from the Pacific and when, in
Miss Bedford’s wholly characteristic
assessment, “The great event of t e
’sixties, far surpassing the marriage of the
Prince of Wales, was the arrival of the
sewing-machine which was to revolu-
tionise the whole situation of women with
regard to dressmaking and stitching ot all
kinds.” _ . f
The book concludes with a fragment ot
autobiography by Sir Alfred Stephen
which, though it stops short at his arrival
in Australia (where he lived to be 92,
and had 18 children), gives a lively
account of his boyhood in the West
Indies.
Some Old Bush Songs
A week or two ago there was an inquiry
in The Bulletin for the complete words
of a song quoted by Henry Lawson in
“A Hero in Dingo Scrubs.” This brought
a letter from Mary Gilmore:
Somebody wants to know the author of the
song in “A Hero in Dingo Scrubs.” It begins:
The crows kept flyin’ up, boys,
The crows kept flyin’ up,
The dog he seen and whimpered, boys,
Though he was but a pup.
I wrote the verse. It was published in The
Worker.” It referred to a well-known anarchist
named Laurence Petrie. He belonged to a well-
known family in Scotland, but for safety s sake
they sent him to Australia.
He went up country from Sydney and got
lost in the bush, and nearly died of thirst.
The crows flocked round him, and all he coulcl
remember was to cover his eyes for safety.
A stockman seeing the crows flying up when-
ever he moved his arm to drive them off came
and found him. So he was rescued.
Years later, in the 1890 strike, he was accused
of putting a bomb into the Warriego, which
was carrying scab labor. He was arrested, but
for want of evidence was acquitted. On his
acquittal I wrote the verse. .. ....
Henry Lawson came to me and said You
have beaten me on my own ground.” A search
of “The Worker” file will show where the
verse is.
Another recent inquiry for the words
of a bush song came from “J. 8.,” who
remembered from childhood a stanza or
two of something called “The Hungry
Man from Queensland,” a heroic charac-
ter who ate mutton-pies “that were chock-
full of flies,”
The full version has been sent in by
Mr. J. Finn, a chemist of Forbes, N. S.
Wales, who says:
“My father used to sing it to me as a
child, and to my knowledge it is traditional.
I know the air to this work of art,
also, but I suppose the only way I could
convey that would be to make a record-
ing of it. Anyway, I trust this will bring
many happy memories to J.B. as it has
to me. I think the original referred to the
‘Hungry Man from ’Frisco,’ but his
origin no doubt would be adaptable to
local need.” The words of the song
(printed as Mr. Finn has set them out)
are:
He’d swallow with ease and think it no sin
To wash it down with a barrel of gin.
He’d eat mutton-pies that were chock-full of flies
This hungry feller from Queensland.
He’d eat a pig, he’d eat a ram, a bushel of
pickles, a half a ham, a quarter of a pound
of mutton chops—his mouth was such an awful
gash—he swallowed a flea but it didn’t agree,
so he determined to go a doctor to see; he ate
kidney stew that was chock-full of glue, it gave
him such a pain he didn’t know what to do, so
he chewed the tails off his grandfather’s coat;
lie went to the poll and swallowed a vote; he
►wallowed an umbrella, a new suit of clothes, he
Dit a big chunk from a fireman’s hose; upon my
ivord the hungry glutton, he’d chew old hats and
jat raw mutton; if he once got his eye on a
family pie he’d eat the blooming lot or die and
that’s the way that he would eat, this hungry
man from Queensland.
One day he got so hungaree
He drank all the beer in Tooths brewery.
He swallowed a pump— picked his teeth with the
handle — , ,
And ate the report of a country scandal.
And being disgusted with life so bright
He swallowed himself and went out ot sight.
And that is the last that ever was seen
Of this hungry man from Queensland.
Another song which lately found its
way to the present writer as a contribu-
tion to a projected anthology of old bush
songs—is “Way Down the Old Hawkes-
bury”:-
Of a hungry man I’m going to sing,
And pity to your hearts ’twill bring.
He’d eat up almost anything
This hungry man from Queensland.
He’d eat a hundred times a day
But for a meal he couldn’t pay.
He could not stop eating—at least so they say—
This hungry feller from Queensland.
He had a weakness for antiquated boots,
Socks and other kinds of fruits;
Pig’s-head and gin he’d persecute
This hungry man from Queensland.
His mouth would stretch from ear to ear
If he once got near a quart of beer.
He made that beer look awfully queer
This hungry feller from Queensland.
One day when going down the street
The Salvation Army he happened to meet,
He swallowed their music and thought it a treat
This hungry feller from Queensland.
He met a crowd coming home from a ball;
They started to poke muck at him —he swallowed
it all;
A short time ago in the very same place
He chewed the whiskers right off a man’s face.
In a restaurant he would loudly cry
“For Heaven’s sake bring me a big chicken pie.”
He’d butter his bread with a spade or an axe
The national debt or the income tax.
Where the Hawkesbury wends its way
Stood a lad and lass one day,
They were parting, and her eyes grew dim with
“If you iove me, Rose,” said he,
“Little sweetheart, promise me „
You will wed when I return in future years.
And her tears she tried to hide
As she sobbingly replied, „
“I’ll be waiting here when you return lor me.
’Way down where the Hawkesbury River’s
flowing, . „
That’s where the ocrange-trees aie glowing,
That’s where they wandered in the gloaming,
That’s where they pledged their constancy.
That’s where the clematis vines are creeping,
That’s where he left his sweetheart weeping,
That’s where she still her watch is keeping,
Way down the old Hawkesbury.
This touching little ditty was collected
by Mr E. L. Jeune and Mr. R. G.
Howarth from Mrs. B. Morley, post-
mistress at Sackville, Hawkesbury River,
N. S. Wales—D.S.
Poles in Motto Grosso
The Matto Grosso in Brazil has become
notorious as the world’s most dangerous
region ; it is where Colonel Fawcett died ;
'd jungle of the world s most frightful
animals and fishes, and harborei of a
disease which causes a man’s insides to
drop out. So it is surprising to find m
Mutto Grosso by Waclaw Korabiewicz,
translated from the Polish by M A.
Michael (Cape), that people live there,
and that a hunting expedition can get
in there and get out again. ...
Dr. Korabiewicz does not minimise the
dangers of the district, but the nearest
he gets to insides dropping out is in his
description of the raia, a relative of the
shark, something like a huge “flounder
with wings,” with two white bony spikes
instead of a tail. Maybe something like
our stingray. It is almost invisible lying
on sand in shallows, and within a lew
minutes of having a raia spike driven into
his foot, a person is said to suffer most
bizarre consequences.
A Displaced Person, Dr. K. was in
Rio looking for work when he met Stanis-
laus the Hunter, and agreed to go as
taxidermist in a three-man expedition
which included another Pole, Tadeusz,
an expert shot, up a river which might
have been the Paraguay or the Sao
LourenfO—the Matto Grosso maps did
not make such things clear.
Stanislaus the mighty hunter turned out
a mixture of meanness, boasting, and real
knowledge. The armada of launches and
equipment he mentioned in Rio turned
out on arrival on the river to be decrepit
log-canoes driven by uncertain outboard-
motors, and his huge army of influential
friends became reluctant acquaintances
on closer view. In the middle of the
jungle he refused to issue the doctor with
a rifle or pistol, even for his protection;
and his interest in birds and other wild-
life was more in killing them than in
collecting them.
The doctor spent most of his time at
an open-air dissecting-table, and he
spaces his stories —of two rare white king-
vultures shot, and fish that cry when
hooked, and black-widow spiders, and
the porcupine that from a tree-top
sprayed the hunters with contumely, and
the anaconda that came 20 feet out of
the water in which he had been swimming
before it saw him on the bank and
returned to the river—with buckets of
entrails and complaints about wanton
killings.
A really moving chapter is the story
of the two large-beaked parrots. They
shot down the hen-parrot, and winged
her mate. Then, knowing the cock would
never desert his hen, they waited until
he came down alongside her, and both
wounded parrots lay on their backs, ready
to repel enemies with beak and claw.
But all that was necessary was to put
sticks in their beaks, to which they hung
on grimly, and with which they could be
moved. Useless as specimens because of
how they had been shot, they were
patched-up, but their slow deaths, their
almost human sufferings, stirred the
doctor considerably.
In fact, he and his friend Tadeusz
were prepared to be kind to almost any-
thing except crocodiles. He enables the
reader to feel what it is like to paddle a
canoe into a bay full of crocodiles,
straight at them, making them give way,
with only a pistol-shot in the eye for
protection if one of the reptiles charges
the canoe; and how it feels to shoot a
crocodile, load it on to the canoe which
is only a few feet longer than it, and then
have the crocodile come alive, with jaws
snapping, on the way home.
On the way in, the expedition stopped
at the Rodrigez ranch or station:
Across the open space, heading straight
for me, came a vacqueiro (cowboy), fol-
lowed by a young steer at the end of his
hundred-foot lasso. At a similar distance
behind the steer came a second vacqueiro
with his lasso restraining the infuriated
animal from the rear. Both lassos were
caught round its horns... .Whenever it
charged forward, it was pulled back from
behind; whenever it sat back on its
haunches, it was dragged along from in
front. Throughout the entire battle the two
lassos were kept stretched taut.
The first cowboy passed me at a splendid
gallop and circled a tree in such a manner
thaf the taut lasso drew the horns of the
steer up to the tree-trunk. At the same time
the second vacqueiro sent his horse round
the tree the other way, so that the poor
animal found itself in a trap with the tree
between its horns. The two cowboys then
dismounted, and with slow movements began
making themselves cigarettes. Their clever
ponies meanwhile held the lassos stretched
taut by leaning back slightly on their
haunches.
Something our backblock Mixes might
like to try on their pianos.
Melville and Hawthorne
The arrival together of two Everyman
classics, Hawthorne’s The House of the
Seven Gables and Melville’s Moby Dick,
sent the reviewer back to his D. H.
Lawrence Studies in Classic American
Literature, about the least conventional
body of literary criticism ever written,
and one of the best things Lawrence ever
did.
Lawrence had a tremendous admiration
for “the absolute duplicity” of the author
of The Scarlet Letter, “the American
wonder-child, with his magical allegorical
insight”; and it is an allegory that falls
into the Lawrence system of sex and
morality, as his profound and vivid
analysis demonstrates:
Yet her only marriage, and her last oath,
is with the old Roger. He and she are
accomplices in pulling down the spiritual
saint It is the soul of the pure preacher,
that false thing, which they are after. And
the crippled physician —this other healer —
blackly vengeful in his old, distorted male
authority, and the “loving'’ woman, they
bring down the saint between them.
Then comes the attack on Pearl, the
child of The Scarlet Letter
She’ll go her own way gaily, and do as
she likes, and she’ll say, afterwards, when
she’s made a mess: “Yes, I did it. But I
acted for the best, and therefore 1 am
blameless. It’s the other person’s fault. Or
else it’s It’s fault.”
She will be blameless. Pearl will, come
what may.
And the world is simply a string of
Pearls today. And America is a whole rope
of these absolutely immaculate Pearls,
who can’t sin, let them, do what they may,
because they’ve no God to sin against.
There, stated in 1924, is the basis of
the French Existentialist movement of
the late 1940’5.
So it is natural that between this and
his appreciation of The Blithedale
Romance Lawrence has only a few words
for The House of the Seven Gables, which
witnesses
the passing of the old order of the proud,
bearded, black-browed father: an order
which is slowly ousted from life, and lin-
geringly haunts the old dark places No
ghost could stand up against a vacuum-
cleaner ... .Oh, Nathaniel, you savage iron-
ist! Ugh, how you’d have hated it if you’d
had nothing but the prosperous, “dear”
young couple to write about! If you’d
lived to the day when America was nothing
but a Main Street.
Lawrence was no appreciator of tech-
nique ; blood-secret or nothing, it is
with him; and so the brilliant opening of
this book, the crowd thronging to the
opening of the new house Colonel
Pyncheon had built on his ill-gotten land,
only to find the colonel dead at his
desk, passes unmentioned; as does the
exquisite comedy of old Miss Hepzibah
Pyncheon’s opening a side of the decaying
mansion as a small-goods and lolly-shop.
But with Moby Dick Lawrence finds
himself again, as he always has to, if he
is going to appreciate anything; and at
the end of a, for him, humble and awe-
inspired exposition of Melville's story,,he
comes to the point:
Melville knew. He knew his race was
doomed. His white soul, doomed. His great
white epoch, doomed. Himself, doomed.
The idealist, doomed. The spirit,
doomed What then is Moby Dick? He
is the deepest blood-being of the white
race; he is our deepest blood-nature. And
he is hunted, hunted, hunted by the
maniacal fanaticism of our white mental
(j Continued on page 35)


We Q ater
n
x
•:
J 1 ** w
itr ?« 4is it-■
?a $p s
for the community!
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ have long been famous for the efficient way in which they cater for
the public. Nothing is too much trouble for them. A wedding reception for 200 guests is
just as easily arranged as a birthday party for your young four-year-old at their restaurant.
o
a
ur labour saving catering service!
Whether you’re having a cocktail party, a dinner party or a wedding reception,
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ catering experts will arrange everything for you . . .
food, cutlery and decorations. ANTHONY HORDERNS’ will also lend crockery,
cutlery and glassware for all your functions or receptions at which you’re doing
your own catering. Charges are very moderate. Write, ’phone or call for particulars.
a
A„
ustralia’s biggest 9 best birthday party
What a wonderful party the children
can have at ANTHONY HOR-
DERNS’ on a Saturday morning.
No less than 30 birthdays are cele-
brated here each week at one big
Birthday Party. The fun starts at
9.45 a.m., when the children gather
in our special concert hall for a full
hour’s entertainment and community
singing. Then at 10.45 a.m., they all
troop down to our dining room for
their birthday parties. What a won-
derful idea for parents! All you have
to do is book a table for your party,
any number, at 3/3 a head, and
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ will do
the rest.
1
T
udor Room!
Quietly situated on the mezzanine
floor, just down the stairs from the
Silk Dept., Ground Floor, Pitt St.
Here you can have tempting savoury
dishes and cool salads. We serve
wine by the glass with all meals.
m m
m
w
:■ ■ f m
r.i
'1
m ■
*>
Our marvellous
wedding cake service
Let us make your wedding cake for you.
We are famous for beautiful cakes —
cakes that are made and decorated by
experts. We also make birthday cakes,
anniversary cakes and all special occa-
sion cakes.
Ground Floor Milk
and Soda Fountain
Adjacent to our Cake Department and
Doughnut Kiosk, this spotlessly clean
Milk Bar serves all types of milk shakes,
soda drinks and fruit drinks. Coffee and
doughnuts a speciality.
Ground Floor Buffet
This quick service buffet, just by the
Electrical Centre, is ideal for busy shop-
pers and business girls. Tea and coffee
and light refreshments are served every
day from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m.
The Second Floor
Restaurant
This is our main restaurant.' It’s open
daily for morning and afternoon tea and
mid-day meals when bottled ales and
light wines may be obtained with meals.
NOTICE
Breahfast in the Store 8,30
Did you know that ANTHONY HORDERNS’
serve-breakfast in their second floor restaurant
every morning, Monday to Friday, from 8.30 a.m.?
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ BOX 2712, G.P.O. 80951


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 26, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3911
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
l Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: "Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
HOW CONFIDENT IS CAHILL?
ON February 15 the New South Wales Parliament
will begin its 1955 session. This is a little earlier
than customary, a fact which might be taken by
the unenlightened as a sign that the Cahill Govern-
ment has discovered a conscience and intends to
work the members a little harder this year. Not
that that would be difficult; during the first seven
months of last year the Assembly sat on eleven
days, the Council on seven.
Conscience as a motive for an early opening
seems rather unlikely in a Government whose
guiding principle has always been expediency;
more likely the move is an instinctive one. Premier
Cahill may feel that if he doesn’t quickly reoccupy
the stately halls of Macquarie-street—on which
he has recently imposed a death-sentence —he may
find a rival “Labor” faction squatting there.
There is also the possibility that the Cahills
may be wanting to make the most of the last year
of their term—which would not be surprising, since,
by all the rules, this year should also be the last
year of the Cahill regime.
Not, of course, that rules count for every-
thing, for if ever a Government deserved to fill the
role of ballot-riddled corpses in a political St.
Valentine’s Day massacre, it was the team Cahill
led to the polls on February 14, 1953. Cahill had
inherited the leadership from McGrrrrr about eight
months earlier, a few minutes before that gentle-
man hoisted his admiral’s flag over the Maritime
Services building. For two years McGrrrrr had
been kept in office by an “unendorsed ‘Labor’ ”
man, a doughty warrior in words with a convenient
habit of forgetting his lack of endorsement when-
ever a vital division was called.
Cahill managed to get that burden off his back
soon after he shouldered it; a by-election win gave
him a clear majority. But his good fortune went
beyond that. Succeeding to the Premiership at a
time when N. S. Wales “Labor” was bankrupt in
ideas, policy and popularity, he had one trump-
card—the Menzies Government was also scratch-
ing the bottom of the popularity-barrel. This was
due partly to the reaction of its own supporters to
its import- and credit-restrictions and partly to the
panic-cry of unemployment raised by Evatt, Ward
and Co. and the “Sydney Morning Herald.” Cahill
jumped aboard this bandwagon with as much
alacrity as if it had been going to the brewers’
picnic, and, when a string of Federal by-elections
showed a strong trend towards “Labor ? ” culminat-
ing in October, 1952, with the capture of Flinders
from the Liberals, he plumped for an early State
election.
On the hustings Cahill asked to be judged on
his record, but, unfortunately, the electors didn’t
do so, but paid more attention to his sob-story,
which laid the blame for all the State’s woes, real
and imaginary, present and anticipated, on the
Menzies Government, which had starved N. S.
Wales of its “rightful share of loan-money.” Result:
Back came Cahill, exhilarated and astounded at
his record majority—s 7 members against a com-
bined Liberal and Country-party total of 36 and
one Independent “Labor.”
Two not-so-happy faces at the victory cele-
brations were those of Prices Minister Finnan and
Mines Minister Arthur; one had lost a seat, the
other a friend. Finnan’s sorrow was easily assuaged.
There was a vacancy for a chairman on the Hunter
River Water Board. Who better fitted to fill it than
F. J. Finnan? Plenty, perhaps, but it went to
Finnan just the same.
The Arthur-Doyle business was not so easily
or happily settled. It began with Cahill denouncing
attacks on Arthur as scurrilous and those who made
them as “quite careless of men’s characters, which
they wish to destroy.” It ended with Doyle in jail
and Arthur resigning from Parliament, after the
royal-commission judge had described his con-
tinued association with Doyle after he had
discovered him guilty of misappropriating money
as “a substantial breach of the standards of right-
dealing to be expected of a Minister of the Crown,”
and “discreditable or seriously reprehensible in a
Minister.”
In his election-campaign Cahill had given no
promises of any moment, but apparently he had
made some rather important ones behind the scenes
to his backers among the big unions. One was
compulsory unionism, and before 1953 was out he
had it on the statute-books. Called at first “abso-
lute preference,” by the time the bill was bludgeoned
through, Cahill’s followers were no longer troubling
to disguise its true nature.
Even before the Dog-collar Act became law
Cahill was busy with another compulsion in the
naine of liberty. Press demands for royal commis-
sions into allegations of police-bribery and City
Council graft—some of them emanating from mem-
bers of Cahill’s own party—brought forth a savage
piece of legislation styled the Sydney City Council
(Disclosure of Allegations) Act, designed for the
sole purpose of stifling criticism. Approved by
those twin champions of freedom Dr. Evatt and
Mr. Calwell, it was condemned by every paper in
Australia and the entire London press.
Even Cahill himself must have been alarmed
at the storm his brain-child raised, and when the
only prosecution launched under it proved abortive,
he did not attempt to carry the issue to the High
Court or Privy Council. Later the corpse was given
almost-secret burial *
Despite his denial that there were any dubious
smells hanging around the Sydney Town Hall,
Cahill hastily Intended his Locil Government Act,
abolished the ward system as far as the City
Council was concerned, though retaining it else-
where, and introduced proportional-reprelentation.
He also provided for the election of Sydney’s Lord
Mayor by universal suffrage, which under present
boundaries means election by the A.L.P. executive.
The result of all this was that Cahill’s group
retained control of the City Council and got rid of
all its unwanteds except one-and Sydney got its
first two Communist aldermen.
Last year, as mentioned earlier, Cahill did not
overwork Parliament in the first half of the year.
It was well into August before he had sufficiently
recovered from his royal tour to call the House
together for serious business. Outside the Chamber
much Ministerial time was spent in getting instruc-
lions and counter-instructions from th? A.L.P.
executive, the Trades Hall, the Shop Assistants’
Union and other bodies with no responsibilities to
the electors on the subject of trading-hours for
pubs, clubs, shops and petrol-stations. Out of it
all at lone last came sliihtlv more sensible hours
for bowsers, no change Ifallfor shops and (after a
referendum) 10-o’clofk closing for pubs and clubs.
Tt Qtill remains to ho nrovod whether the last-
namld aS better or worse off than blfofe
named are better or worse otl than before.
Apart from these items much Ministerial time
grant inquiries which could have cleared the officers
concerned, including the police-commissioner. One
inquiry was granted, in a case where it was clear
from the start that the alleged victim was a man
of straw, but its outcome did little to allay the
general feeling that the instinct of the Cahill Gov-
eminent when allegations are made against any of
its departments is not so much to defend as to
conceal
On the eve of his 1955 session, Cahill pro-
claimed that he had recently been around the
country, and felt confident that his party would
come back from the next election even stronger
than now. Brave words; but his real state of mind
was probably revealed more accurately when he
reminded his celebrating supporters after the St.
Valentine’s Day victory of a similar moment in
“Labor’s” past: ■
“Labor” has more seats than at any other time
in its history s?. .We had 55 seats in the 1930
elections—We lost more than 30 in the landslide
against Lang in 1932.
N. S. Wales “Labor” today has 57 seats. How
many will it have in 1956?
Roads and Realities
THE first meeting of the official Australian Trans-
port Advisory Council of 12 Federal and State
Ministers in Perth seems to present a good
opportunity for somebody to face realities about
Australian roads.
Their development has been a mushroom
growth, with purpose but without plan, from the
beginning of history. The same has been true of
all transport facilities. Ports happened —they were
not chosen —often in the most unsuitable and
uncentral positions. 1 Once established, the aggre-
gation of commercial interests around them did
everything possible to prevent other ports rising to
compete. Railways were built under the auspices
of these centralised interests to feed the established
ports, and produce from the remotest corners had
to be carried over them irrespective of cost or
convenience.
A prime example of this atrocious policy and
its results is to be seen in the transport of North
Queensland wool to the coast. The wool districts of
Central North Queensland are served with two
railways which make a beeline for three ports—
Townsville,- Rockhampton and Gladstone. These
lines were put in to open up the west. Yet in order
to see that it squeezes enough freight out of the
industry to help keep the lines from bankruptcy
the Queensland Government grants differential
rates to encourage growers to send their clips an
unnecessary six or seven hundred miles (in some
cases) to Brisbane, thus calling for extra rolling-
stock, coal, labor, railway material, all of which
has to be transported in turn to the source of the
production.
The same policy that was practised internally
by the various colonies, and later States, in regard
to railways has been practised in regard to inter-
state traffic. Railways were built with different
gauges for different States. And whatever reasons
were given for this, the real one was a determina-
tion by every Government to prevent the next-
door Government from stealing border-region
trade, and perhaps, as a result, the border regions.
The road policy follows the old pattern, but
in a less orderly way. Roads are built by the
States with money scooped up by the petrol-tax
and distributed by the Commonwealth. And the
whole tendency has been to build them only in such
a way that they cannot compete with the railroads
and cannot help to foster local port-development—
not that any port-development can take place in
the present condition of the sea industries with
crushing costs tied round their necks, and with their
policies and pace of work dictated direct from
Moscow via Messrs. Elliott V. Elliott and Jim
Healy and the polit-bureau of the Communist party.
Cities are crowded-out with pleasure-cars. But the
long-haul contractor, the farmer who carries his
own produce to market in competition with the
railways, the van which dares to take a private
passenger to help out expenses, are all relegated to
the world of criminality, especially in those States
so pure that their Premiers believe that lotteries are
moral and bigger ones desirable because the mob
wants them.
There are some good long-distance roads in
Australia, but they are there in spite of the States,
not through their initiative. They were built for
defence. And the States have, since the war, found
themselves between the devil and the deep sea
regarding them. They would like to let them fall
into a condition which would preclude their being
used by heavy transport in competition with the
railways; but they cannot do this because if they
did they would fall foul of the Commonwealth and
of the huge aggregation of people who own—or
own a small equity in—time-payment cars which
tens of thousands of them use to pass the abundant
leisure of their lives. The States are thus faced
with the problem of acting in a way which will
serve two opposing purposes—the usage of roads
and preventing roads from being used.
With their moribund railways breaking down,
or working on a scale of expense which makes it
cheaper for the commissioners in some States to
farm-out a portion of their haulage to road-
transport, a sort of stalemate has been reached in
the haulage business.
There are hauliers who are handling traffic
for the railways and proving that they can take
contracts from the Government, pay a percentage
to the railways, pay taxation to two Treasuries and
yet make a profit. But still the States continue,
while using them, to make war upon them and to
frame their road policies to meet the needs of their
own near-bankruptcy rather than the national needs
and trends of the times.
This condition of affairs will continue while
there are still Cahills and Gairs and Cains and
while the States are still in control of road-building
and there is no national plan. The Victorian
branch of the Australian Road Federation has
called on the conference sitting in Perth to
form an Australian Road Board and co-ordinate
the whole plan of national highways under a 10-
year scheme. Mr. Baker, its president, says—he is
obviously a man not ' given to overstatement
—that the present system is inefficient and
inadequate, inflationary as to cost-structure and
impairing national security. It certainly is, since
more than ever in the next war ability to defend
the country will depend on flexibility of road-
movement by fast heavy-vehicle convoys.
It is inevitable that the present policy of the
States should be defeated in the end. Already about
80 per cent, of all goods moved from place to place
. within the continent go by road. And if this is the
case under conditions of frustration, legal opposi-
tion, deliberate preventive policies of taxation on
road-vehicles by Governments, the freeing of road-
transport from legal restrictions —even the limited
freeing achieved by the recent Privy Council deci-
sion—must lead to great expansion of road-traffic
over long distances and a call for national routes,
better surfaces and priority arrangements to pro-
vide for expansion of settlement, the opening of
new ports and freer all-round access to the coast
for districts remote from present ports and large
towns.
The Australian Transport Council could make
a good start with this in view. And the matter
should have the attention of the Federal Govern-
ment and Parliament before more money is handed
over to the States for road purposes.


“HE PLAYED HIS UKELELE AS THE SHIP WENT DOWN.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Wages and Living-costs
It is now 16 months since the Federal
Arbitration Court froze the basic wage
by suspending automatic quarterly
adjustments. In the 12 months before
the court took this action most sensible
people of all political parties had come to
realise that however good the system may
have been in times of relatively stable
prices* in a period of inflation such as
Australia was experiencing in 1951-a3
the adjustments aggravated the inflation-
ary tendency of prices.
The worker who got the extra 10 or
12 shillings in his pay-envelope knew
quite well that within a few weeks his
augmented wages would buy no . m 0
than he could previously get at his old
rates, probably less. Business-houses
found it impossible to quote firm prices
for future work because they had no way
of knowing what their wages-bill would
be in a few months’ time. To the State
Governments each shilling rise in the
basic wage meant from £lOO,OOO to
£200,000 a year on their wages-bill.
In contrast, there was relative stability
in prices during 1954. There were varia-
tions from State to State, largely through
the different approach of the State wage-
fixing authorities. In Queensland, for
example, increases were made in State
awards when the quarterly index-figures
went up, but no decreases were made
when they dropped. In Victoria wages
of Government employees went up or
down as the figures fluctuated. New South
Wales Industrial Commission followed
the Federal example. Other variations
were related to local differences in rent-
control and so on.
Figures released last week for the
December quarter showed a slight rise
in living-costs in four States and a slight
drop in two. Had the quarterly adjust-
ments been in force wages would have
risen 2s. a week in Sydney, 3s. in Bris-
bane and Is. in Melbourne. In Perth
and Hobart they would have dropped Is.
and in Adelaide there would have been
no change. As the higher price for tea
accounted for Is. in every State it will
be realised that general costs are almost
stable. In Sydney, over the whole period
since the “freeze,” costs have risen by
the equivalent of 3s. a week.
Dr. Evatt, of course, greeted the latest
figures with a charge that the workers
were being denied wage-justice and a
comment that sooner or later the system
of measuring the cost-of-living would
have to be overhauled. He conveniently
ignored the fact that for well over a year
the Commonwealth Statistician has been
compiling a new index and that its results
differ only to a negligible degree from
the old C-series index.
The question of margins has still to be
settled in most industries, and if marginal
increases are widely granted they must
have a considerable effect on the cost-of-
living. There is little doubt that in that
case the court would reconsider the
“freeze.” In the meantime it must be
admitted that “freezing” has contributed
largely to the present stability.
"Wage-justice"
The barefaced opportunism which marks
the propaganda of Dr. Evatt has rarely
been more evident than in his remarks on
“wage-justice” arising out of the
formalised cost-of-living figures issued
for the December quarter of last year
by the Commonwealth Statistician.
There would, he says, have been an
increase in the basic wage on an
Australia-wide scale but for the freez-
ing of the wage by the Arbitration Court,
and two principles of “supreme import-
ance” are involved. Why should the
basic wage be frozen in ' this “open
denial of the ordinary principles of
justice”? It is, he says, especially resented
at the present time, having regard to the
“colossal increases which the Menzies
Government has given without the con-
sent of Parliament to the elite corps of
the special public servants and judicial
officers, including arbitration judges and
conciliation commissioners.”
He doesn’t say that the system under
which it is possible for these increases
to be given without the consent of Par-
liament was established by his own Gov-
ernment on a very firm basis after the
war, nor does, he say anything about the
fact that the “elite corps” mainly came
into existence under the guiding hand of
himself and Mr. Chifley and that the
most vocal and greedy elements in it are
that part of the personnel which he and
his “Labor” colleagues introduced when
they politicalised the service. Neither is
there any word about the further colossal
“margins” which some o|i his own
colleagues and followers are urging
should be paid to M.P.s, and for which
Parliament will have to be responsible
if they become practical politics.
Ri ses in the civil service are not a
ma tter for Parliament, unfortunately,
even though the Estimates are voted in
a sor t G f rat-race towards the Christmas
holidays at the end of the year. When
there is dispute, the determining factor
j s the pressure of the civil servants them-
selves.
But in the world of Evattian propa-
ganda everything arises from the actions
G f the Government—the sunshine and
the rain, the rise in the price of tea
consequent on the imposition of taxes in
Ceylon and the rise of Ceylonese wages
are a jj the work of the wicked Menzies.
And Dr. Evatt is now sure, that, in
relation to “justice’—a word which he
has overworked during the past couple
of decades mostly in relation to the
Communist martyrs for whom he has
spoken—only “a complete overhaul of
cost-of-living increases” based upon an
inquiry and “sworn evidence to check-
up the present system” will produce the
millennium.
It is to be hoped that if Dr. Evatt
succeeds in inducing the Government to
hold such an inquiry he will have more
convincing evidence to offer than he did
at the Petrov Commission.
Australia and Security
The attack by the Chinese Communist
forces on the Tachen group of islands is
a new and disturbing element in the cur-
rent war round Formosa, but it appears
defensive rather than offensive. The
islands are of no strategic value for the
defence of Formosa ; they are an isolated
group nearer to Shanghai than to the
crucial defence-positions on the main
island, and withdrawal was inevitable the
moment a serious assault was made on
them.
And the assault has been serious, and
is obviously, at the moment of writing,
forcing evacuation of military personnel,
including some United States represen-
tatives. The greatest danger is that U.S.
ships will be attacked, provoking reprisals
and war.
The Communist victory will free the
route into Shanghai to some extent from
supervision by Chiang Kai-shek’s forces,
while achieving no other material military
gain. At the same time the minor victory
of Peking is unfortunate at this juncture.
The attack was timed to coincide with
the return home of Mr. Hammerskjold,
the secretary to the United Nations
Organisation, after an apparently fruit-
less mission to secure the release of the
American flyers held as spies. It accentu-
ates the feeling of frustration caused by
his failure and it will be advertised as a
new evidence of China’s strength.
It is also contemporaneous with a
spate of propaganda advertising the unity
of Communist China and Vietminh
leadership in Indo-China and with efforts
by Russia to intimidate and at the same
time to woo India, which is steadily
entering into arrangements with the rest
of Asia.
Simultaneously with other disturbing
events and the renewed protests emanat-
ing from Moscow about the arming of
Western Germany and West German re-
buffs to Russian plans, there is a con-
tinued hardening of Russian attitudes and
a development of gestures calculated to
cause unease even if, in terms of real
action, they mean little. One is the
hurried and simultaneous recall to
Moscow for consultation of the Russian
ambassadors to London and Washington.
While official opinion in the West leans
to the view that this year is not a danger-
ous year, but that 1957 might be, there is
nothing in Russian behavior to inspire
confidence.
It is quite clear that the sooner the non-
Soviet world is prepared to complete its
defence arrangements the better. There
is certain to be an expansion of effort in
the British Commonwealth, and especially
in the Orient, after the London Con-
ference. Australia can expect to face new
responsibilities and, a little later, pro-
bably increased expenditure, on defence.
It will be surprising if the rumors about
the sending of troops to Malaya are not
true. Even more than in World War II
that area is a vital centre of Far Eastern
defence, and Australia will have to share
in the preparation for it.
The reconditioning and rearming of
the forces for the new phases of method
which have been reached will be a large
task, and the further experiment goes at
the Rocket Range the greater the impact
will be on methods and training and
armament. On top of these matters,
civilian defence will need attention in the
light of the danger of nuclear bombing.
This in itself, a matter on which Mr. W. C.
Wentworth, M.P., has been carrying on
a lone-handed campaign on platforms
and in the press, and in connection with
which he is now abroad, is going to
involve large organisation and outlay
when it is tackled seriously.
But the main task at the moment is the
training of cadres for the newer types of
war and the re-equipping of the Air
Force, the Navy and the Army and their
co-ordination. In modern war Australia
will be more self-dependent than in pre-
vious wars.
Example from the West
When the Kwinana oil-refinery was
officially opened in Westralia early this
month with the entry into Cockburn
Sound of the tanker British Crusader
carrying a cargo of crude oil, the occasion
noted not only a landmark in the history
of the oil-industry in Australia, but also
the opening of a new port and harbor.
For decades enthusiasts have urged' the
claims of Cockburn Sound as a safe
anchorage and site for a deep-sea port.
At one time it seemed likely that a naval
base would be established there, but
other counsels prevailed and the proposal
came to nothing. The chief obstacle has
always been the sandbanks which
impeded entry into what was otherwise
a good natural harbor.
When Anglo-Iranian Oil, in choosing
a site for its Australian refinery, decided
on Kwinana, one of the conditions was
that the Westralian Government should
dredge a deep channel through the
Success and Parmelia sandbanks. For a
State of Westralia’s limited financial
resources the cost was considerable. The
dredging cost million, housing almost
£2 million ; waterworks, roads and other
facilities brought the expenditure to £44
million.
The project was begun under a Liberal
and Country-party Government and com-
pleted under a “Labor” Government and
is an example of agreement on broad
policy between political opponents which
could well be copied in other States. At
the official opening Opposition-leader
McLarty was able to recall how his
Cabinet when in office had decided to
sacrifice a big portion of its public-works
programme in order to divert the money
to Kwinana, and Deputy-Premier Tonkin
supplemented this by detailing the costs
and saying that, although these had meant
a cessation of irrigation- and drainage-
work and a slowing-down of work on
schools, hospitals and country water-
supplies, the people of Westralia, who had
indirectly borne these sacrifices, would
ultimately be repaid through the indus-
tries attracted to Kwinana.
One Government which could learn
from the example of the West —if it were
capable of learning anything—is the
Cahill Government of N. S. Wales, which
at the time McLarty and Hawke were
rationalising their expenditure was clut-
tering-up the N. S. Wales landscape with
unfinished works and blaming Canberra
for the mess.
How You Gonna Keep 'Em?
“In the ACT”: Australian farmers and
economists, as well as politicians, are
united in condemning the U.S. decision
to cut losses and empty overflowing
storages by selling surplus (and subsi-
dised) foodstuffs on the best world market
obtainable. There is no doubt that the
decision could prove a serious blow to
producers in this and other countries, but
hysteria will neither change the plan nor
make for sober review of the future possi-
bilities. Leaving aside the question of
what and where Britain should buy, we
have to be on guard in this country
against creating undue resentment among
sections of United States opinion. Com-
merce Minister John McEwen, for ex-
ample, who has been venturing into some
deep waters lately with pronouncements
of high policy, has just been protesting
vehemently against the proposed sale of
4500 tons of U.S. butter at prices which
could have the effect of distorting the
normal pattern of world trade.
This is proper, within limits. But he has
gone on to say that for future stability
it is of critical importance that the U.S.
should not continue to stimulate the, pro-
duction of agricultural products beyond
its own requirements and for which no
normal export market can be foreseen,
adding, “I directed that appropriate
representations on the subject be made
in Washington.” In theory, the Minister
is perhaps right—although America, like
Australia, has plenty of sentimentalists
who believe that there should be bigger
and better food-surpluses for handing
out, at someone else’s expense, to Asia.
But in practice John McEwen surely has
had enough experience of rural politics to
be able to imagine what the reaction
would be in the great farming States of
the U.S. if Washington tried to put his
idea into action. He has been in Wash-
ington often enough to appreciate the
power and influence of the farm bloc
on the Administration and on Congress,
an influence which has prompted the
present plan to throw open the choked
storages.
In other words, the American producers
are “down on the farm,” and sitting
pretty. They have immense investments
of capital there, and their representatives
in Congress see that subsidies and assist-
ance continue to flow uninterrupted. Any
move to cut off the buying of their pro-
ducts would provoke a political storm
too great for any U.S. politician to
contemplate seriously.
It does not seem likely, therefore, that
the “appropriate representations” in
Washington will have any great effect on
a problem that is serious now, and likely
to recur. Instead of antagonising U.S.
opinion, the Australian Government
should be trying to find some other and
better way of achieving the objective of
something like a world balance between
production and consumption, with prices
sufficiently low to stimulate greater
demand while yielding adequate returns
to producers everywhere. It’s not easy,
but it’s worth trying.
Indonesia Today
Indonesia is Australia’s nearest neighbor
and, except when its Government shouts
its determination to take over West New
Guinea, come what may, Australians take
all too little interest in its affairs.
To begin with, its population was an-
nounced this month as being 77,987,879,
and these are to be represented in a
new Parliament at the rate of one member
for every 300,000. The Government —
if such it can be called —consists of a
coalition formed of Nationalists, the
Orthodox Moslems and “Progressive”
groups, which hold the key to the situa-
tion. The total voting-strength of Parlia-
ment is now 223 and the quorum is 107.
When, on December 14, the Administra-
tion—in office since August 1953 —faced
a no-confidence motion, 213 were present
and the vote was 115 for the Government
agqinst 92 opposed to it. There were
six abstentions. It is significant of the
nature of the “Progressive” groups, which
keep the Government in office, that the
majority included the full voting-strength
(17) of the Communist vanguard in the
Parliament —which sounds small but
actually consists of a leadership and steer-
ing-agency for some other “Progressives.”
It is obvious from the vote that the
Government had very little to play with
—nothing at all if deserted by the Com-
munists and voted against by six “absten-
tionists.”
At the general election, which will be
held this year—the first under the new
system —it seems certain that the “Pro-
gressive” elements may increase their
hold on Parliament —the word is used by
the Communists everywhere, including
Australia and particularly Canada, to
mask extra-“party” operations. It is
noticeable, and a matter of concern, that
the Central Election Committee is treat-
ing Irian (West New Guinea) as an elec-
toral district and. has provided six seats
for it in the Constituent Assembly of 520
and three in the Parliament of 260.
The trends are illustrated by the
Seventh Congress proceedings of the
Nationalist (the main Government) party
at Bandoeng, which immediately followed
the curious vote of confidence in Parlia-
ment. President Soekarno then urged the
formation of an All-Indonesian Congress,
representative of all parties, “as a means
of power to fight for the liberation of
West New Guinea.” The general chair-
man of the conference declared that
Indonesia would follow an independent
policy, but that if it were compelled to
join one of the world blocs it would be
the “one that is in the interests of the
(I Continued, on next page )
A Double-sized Issue
Next week’s issue of “The
Bulletin” will be a double-sized
number to commemorate its 75th
anniversary. A feature of the
supplement will be reproductions
of over 30 Norman Lindsay draw-
ings, covering a 50-year span of
his work. —Price, 9d., as usual.


majority of the people.” He did add that
“if Indonesia joined a certain bloc she
would be merely a satellite,” but in view
of its dependence on extremely radical
elements to stay in power it could be
anybody’s guess what he meant. How
stable the Government is was made
clear by the Premier’s announcement that
“the restoration of security could not
easily be achieved,” but that the Govern-
ment would “take the necessary steps,”
and that “rebellion against the Govern-
ment will be met by force.”
The atmosphere is further illustrated
by the fact that December 11 is officially
advertised as being regarded as “Slaughter
Day” to commemorate a “three-months
campaign of systematic extermination
that ranks with the worst of those per-
petrated by Nazi Germany.” The villains
of the piece, it seems, were Captain
“Turk” Westerling, the “butcher of Indo-
nesia,” and his “Dutch corps of special
troops” which by “conservative estimate
slaughtered more than 40,000 men,
women and children, burned and pillaged
numerous villages and wiped out entire
townships.” At Macassar, it is officially
advertised by the Government, this force
herded “some thousands at a time” into
a compound and these were “mercilessly
shot dead.”
The Government further internation-
ally publicises inflammatory outbursts by
People’s Party meetings of “tens of thou-
sands” directed towards the severance of
diplomatic relations with the Netherlands
and the seizure of West New Guinea by
force ; also the unpleasant resolutions of
the “Indonesian Association of Ex-
Fighters” rejecting the U.N.O. resolu-
tions on West New Guinea, expressing
gratitude to those countries which sup-
ported Indonesia at the U.N.O. meeting,
“branding the Netherlands as aggressor
against Indonesia” and calling on all
nationals to “stand up in defence of the
Indonesian fatherland.”
One would imagine that the country
has enough to worry it without aiming
to secure further population and terri-
tory. It has not reached the stage of
having a civilised education system, and
the fact that its report on the 1953-4
health programme records that 14,000,000
cases of yaws—in a population of
78,000,000 —have been examined and
1,250,000 treated, apart from 1,000,000
treated for tuberculosis, seems to suggest
the extent of its internal problems.
Obviously Indonesia is a harassed
neighbor whose conditions are such as
to cause Australia disquiet.
POLITICAL POINTS
Tasmania goes to the polls for a State
election on February 19, which means a
very short campaign. Premier Cosgrove
will deliver his policy-speech in Hobart
Town Hall tomorrow night; Opposition-
leader Townley answers back on
Tuesday.
Position of parties in the Assembly
just dissolved was “Labor,” 15; Liberal,
14; Independent, 1.
9 9
South Australian Parliamentarians of
both Houses —4B of ’em are on a
fortnight’s visit to Westralia at the
invitation of the W.A. Government.
Kwinana will probably be the highlight
of the inspection tour, but Premier Hawke
wants them to have a look-see at a wide
range of primary and secondary
industry.
9 9
One of Sir John Latham’s suggested
reforms of the Constitution which should
get wide support though not from
Cahill —is a provision to compel the
States to pay a just price for property
compulsorily resumed. The Common-
wealth is already under this compulsion,
but where State Governments are con-
cerned citizens are at the mercy of the
party in power.
Latham also suggests a more explicit
expression of the intention of Section 92,
a provision for an • election of half the
Senate whenever the House of Reps, is
dissolved and the placing of all employer-
employee relations in the hands of one
industrial authority.
The first step to any Constitutional
reform must, of course, be an all-party,
all-States convention.
9 9
Calwell, in his role of defender of the
North, is still playing politics. Claiming
that to admit additional Japanese pearl-
divers —there are already 35 at Broome
and there is a request for an increase to
80 and for a permit for a further 90 at
Darwin —would mean a resumption of
“Japanese spying,” he says that if the
industry can’t be run without them it
would be far better to let it die. Calwell
obviously hopes that his Jap-spy scare
will be good vote-catching material; he
conveniently ignores the fact that Jap
divers work on Australian-owned luggers
and that the master-pearlers at Broome
and the Westralian “Labor” Govern-
ment both consider them essential to
the industry. Pearling, incidentally, is
one of the few industries in the nor’-
west, and it earns million a year.
9 9
*•
J. R. Odgers, Usher of the Black Rod
in the Senate, is off to America on a
Smith-Mundt grant to study the methods
of the U.S. Senate. It’s to be hoped that
he does not, on his return, start coaching
local Senators in the proper way to con-
duct a filibuster.
• *
Nehru has proclaimed to the All-India
Congress Committee that the objective
of his party is the establishment of a
Socialist pattern of society. He told the,
congress that “we must keep this picture
in view at all stages of our planning.”
The present stage of planning includes
the attraction into India of vast amounts
of outside capital. Emphasis on the
Socialist objective scarcely seems the right
way of doing this. Perhaps it’s another
example of the working of the mysterious
Asian mind which Westerners are said
to be incapable of understanding.
9 9
First ingot of aluminium will be de-
livered by the Bell Bay project in July
or August. What will it have cost?
9 9
Canberra will have to wait a bit longer
before its member in the Reps is given
a general vote, or allowed to seek the
positions of Speaker or Chairman of
Committees. The Advisory Council
recently raised the point, stressing that the
capital’s population had reached 30,000.
Kent Hughes replied that the quota was
still far below the number in any other
capital.
Britannia has still a fair say in matters
maritime. In 1954 U.K. shipyards turned
out 208 vessels, aggregating 1,357,236
tons; in November exports of British-
built ships reached a post-war record
value of £9,828,623, and the total for the
year exceeded £5O million. Norway was
the largest single buyer for the year, fol-
lowed by Liberia. The negro republic,
like Panama, is a country of registry for
shipowners who don’t wish to comply
with the conditions required for regis-
tration in their own countries.
9 9
C. R. Story is the Liberal candidate for
the Midland seat in the S.A. Legislative
Council, vacant through the death of
Attorney-General Rudall. He’s a 36-year-
old Renmark fruitgrower, active in all
the affairs of the industry, and is the
representative of the Renmark Irrigation
Trust on the regional committee of the
Murray Valley Development League.
“Labor” is not contesting the seat.
9 9
Before leaving for Britain, Air Minis-
ter Townley made a correction to a
statement he had issued a day earlier
regarding the Viscount crash at Manga-
lore. The original statement said that a
contributory cause of the accident “was
CHOP-SUEY
the limited experience of the pilots con-
cerned.” This should have read “the
limited experience with the Vickers-
Viscount of the pilots concerned.”
• 9
Soaring tea-prices seem to have stimu-
lated rather than diminished Australians’
thirst for the beverage. In the Septem-
ber quarter we imported almost 22 mil-
lion pounds valued at £A6,088,957, com-
pared with only 16,670,0001 b. valued at
£ A 3,407,245 in the corresponding quarter
of 1953.
9 9
“Actin’’: Some thoughtful vandals,
defacing with their scratched names
the aluminium base of the Australian
National Memorial to the U.S., which
rears its lofty column in Canberra, have
added their addresses. These have been
noted by the police and the Australfen-
American Association, and sent to the
State capitals. Some scribblers may get
a shock shortly—so may would-be imita-
tors when steps are taken soon to prevent
further mutilation of the memorial.
9 9
When Frankie Sinatra was leaving his
hotel in Melbourne to stir the souls of
thousands at the Stadium a man put a
bag of newspaper over his head. An
appropriate substitute, no doubt, for the
crown of laurels accorded artists by
antiquity,
• •
Hofiway Liberal J. M. Mackie in the
course of campaigning for the Higin-
botham by-election for the Victorian Legis-
lative Council used in an advertisement
the slogan “Go Forward with Menzies
and Mackie,” and the words “selected and
endorsed Liberal candidate.” The L.-C.P.
thereupon cabled to Menzies, and Council
Opposition-leader Warner was able to
produce at a meeting the P.M.’s reply
naming “my good friend, Lindsay
Thompson,” as the “only official Liberal
and Country-party candidate”, and say-
ing that the use of his name by any other
candidate was completely unauthorised.
Mackie’s reply was that he had never
suggested that he was endorsed by
Menzies, but that he supported and had
worked for Menzies in the Federal sphere
and that his fight was “not against true
Liberalism as expressed by Mr. Menzies
and his party, but against the executive
of the L.-C.P. of Victoria, which appar-
ently prefers chaos to unity.” That still
doesn’t sound an adequate reason for
the wording of the advertisement. Holl-
way’s men call themselves the Victorian
Liberal party and are not affiliated with
the Federal Libs.
• •
Emulating Big Brother Bert, Evatt
minor, appearing at the Petrov Commis-
sion for two watersiders, alleged that a
document naming them was not authentic
and that Petrov and “some other persons”
had conspired to produce it. When Evatt
persisted in cross-examining Petrov on
the document Ligertwood, J., said,
You are wasting public time and money
and stringing on the royal commission
unnecessarily. The hearing is being strung
on as it was during a certain period last
year.
• o
The South Australian Electricity Trust
is conducting a survey of wind-velocity
in various parts of the State to find
whether it is sufficient in any area to
justify the erection of a wind-power plant
to supplement other sources of power.
Latest survey-station added to the chain
is at Winter’s Hill, near Port Lincoln.
• •
“Objectionable literature” raised its
somewhat battered head in the A.C.T.
Advisory Council when some members
wanted to advise the Minister for the
Interior to set up a “Literature Board of
Review.” They were opposed by other
members who agreed that objectionable
publications should be “suppressed,” but
suggested this should be done by a
judicial authority. The matter was
deferred to enable the N.S.W. legislation
on the subject to be examined.
Moscow “Literary Gazette,” in a long
article on the Petrov case, describes it
as a phony plot, calls Menzies a forget
and a dirty provocateur and likens him
to Hitler. The cable conveying fhis infor-
mation did not name the author, but,
whoever he is, he’d better watch his step
or the Doc. will be suing him for breach
of copyright.
• •
“Stromlo”: Interior . Minister Kent
Hughes left for a two-months’ trip to
S.-E. Asia without announcing any
decision on the liquor laws of the A.C.T.,
that thirsty island entirely surrounded by
a New South Wales which is about to
enjoy the alleged blessings of 10 p.m.
closing. Months ago the Advisory
Council suggested liquor-reforms to Kent
Hughes, who deferred judgment until
after the N.S.W. referendum, but has
taken no action since. No ordinance has
proclaimed 10 p.m., although the five
local Bungs are reported to be expecting
such an announcement, and to be glee-
fully anticipating expanded lounge-
trading. If later closing does not arrive,
then the eight-mile road to Queanbeyan
may once more become a trek for
drinkers, as in the early days of Canberra
prohibition.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Australian manufac-
turers, recently warned by the Prime
Minister to stand more on their own feet
and depend less on Government assist-
ance, are complaining about rising costs
and the lack of publicity abroad. On the
costs side they are admittedly at the
mercy to a large extent of forces outside
their immediate control, but surely pub-
licity is their own business. If they have
a good product which they believe they
can sell abroad they should be prepared
to spend money and time on advertising
it. The Government’s task, admittedly
poorly done, is to give Australia in
general a boost overseas. It’s up to the
manufacturers to tell people about their
own, products.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
AN insurance company, in announcing
a decision to give preferential rates
to women drivers under 25 “because they
seem to drive more safely,” may be the
means of saving many a husband the price
of costly car-repairs. No woman, after
reading the announcement, would dare to
be seen denting mudguards on telegraph-
poles, or knocking off bumper-bars on
garage-doors for it would be tantamount
to saying: “Look at me; I’m over 25!”
—“Clyde,”
“Crunch”: Roadside cafe between
Canberra and Melbourne. Customer:
“Tomatoes on toast, please.” Waitress
(bored): “Got none. Sorry.” Customer
“When are you going to squeeze all the sea-water out of me ?”
(after slight pause): “Do you have
tomato-sandwiches ? ” Waitress (retreat-
ing fo kitchen): “If you like.” Moral:
You can ask a waitress for food, but you
can’t make her cook it.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Pawang”: A young Australian
woman, a nursing-mother, told me this
one. She was camped in a seaside cara-
van-park at Christmas near some New
Australians —Balts, I think they were —
whom she had always thought very primi-
tive, natural people. She was carrying her
baby down to the beach when a woman
living in one of the caravans came out
and said: “That’s a nice-looking baby.
What do you feed it on?” “Milk,” said
the Australian mother. “Do you feed it
from the chest or from the bottle?” asked
the New Australian. “From the chest,”
said the Old Australian. “Do you
really?” said the N.A. “Why, it looks
quite healthy on it.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pa-Pa”: A telegram I remember:
“Lavatory demolished in last night’s
gale. Please wire instructions urgent.”
Instructions !
“Narumee”: Even the excitement of
the final day of the Third Test did not
succeed in infusing agitation into Charles
Fortune’s rich, plum-cake voice. “Such
a beautiful morning,” he told us, while
we bit our nails waiting for the score.
“Such a gentle breeze, so much beautiful
sunshine, and Tyson to Benaud ”
Later: “Miller sweeps that hair of his
off his forehead, lifts his bat—Miller’s bat
is an Excalibur, if ever there was one!”
Whether Miller afterwards cast Excalibur
into the waters of the Yarra (Dozmary
Pool being inconveniently situated rather
far from the M.C.G.) Fortune did not
inform us.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Hallcraft”: A Melbourne citizen built
a shack at a seaside-resort on the Bay,
mostly of old materials; it was to be
furnished with any old stuff cast off from
the town residence. After it was finished,
it was discovered that no provision had
been made for the “smallest room in the
house.” The owner remembered a recent
fitting of an interior w.c. in a big country
home; this made the old, dilapidated
“little house” down the yard superfluous,
“All you need now, sir, is a cushion."
and he negotiated its purchase for his
country shack. The next difficulty was
to get it down to the seaside. He dared
his wife to take it down on a trailer be-
hind her Rolls-Royce! She accepted his
challenge (for a monetary consideration
of ten-guineas), and one of the quaintest
sights ever witnessed between Toorak
and Rosebud was put on for the benefit
of all on the route (including scores of the
owner’s personal friends, who had been
told of the contest). .What made its
transit to the seaside more interesting was
that one of the owner’s youngsters had
to be on the trailer with it, to keep it
steady. It would have made a fine movie.
#
* &
“0.G.”: The woman at the upstairs
window was telling the flapper next-door
what an eminent scientist said would
happen if we were hit by a hydrogen-
bomb. “I wouldn’t worry over what he
thinks,” said the flapper. “He’s only one
man—and in these uncertain times
nothing might happen.”
♦> ❖
“Arner”: The ex chorus-girl, now a
titled lady, had during the voyage from
Liverpool to Montreal intruded on every
party and person on the ship with the
exception of the rather crusty commander,
then making his last voyage—short,
round, covered in gold-braid, ribbons,
etc., as befitted the Commodore of the
Atlantic, Northern Lanes. We were
approaching Belle Isle, in the Gulf of
St. Lawrence; passengers clustered on
the fore end of saloon-deck; the lady
well to the fore and holding court. The
commander was ascending the bridge
ladder when a voice said, directed his
way, “What is that land?” Almost burst-
ing with indignation the commander
snapped back, “Madam, ask the cook.”
“Sorry,” came back the honeyed reply,
loud enough to be heard by us on the
bridge, “I thought you were the cook.”
“Quo Vadis”: The provision of police-
jeeps in country towns has been a big
factor in uplifting the moral tone of the
community and suppressing crime. Previ-
ously many a wrongdoer escaped solely
because the constable was afoot; inebri-
ates were not arrested because lumbering
them to the watch-house was too exhaust-
ing. Not so now. The “ghost-car” gets
the lot, saving the cops miles of unneces-
sary footslogging.
“Sister Ellell”: The men of our unit
gone forward, we Sisters were left behind
“on agistment” at an A.G.H. As is the
usual gripe of “attached personnel,” we
were on the night-beat as soon as we
arrived almost, and also pepped along by
the C.O. of the unit, as he suspected the
night-staff of helping the boys go a.w.l.
by shutting the blind eye. One very
young officer seemed to be orderly-dog
twice a week, and, mad with his two-pip
zeal, fired endless questions on his night-
round. Came the night he tried my
patience just too far when he said, “Are
you sure all the men are in bed?” Perhaps
it was my guilty conscience, but I gave
him the benefit of a brief statement, and
said he was at liberty to go in the dark
ward and see for himself, and added as
a rider that if he disturbed the five very
sick boys who had all had morphia I
would hold him responsible. I bowed the
way to the ward door, and said, “I think
you’ll be the greatest disturber of all
time, with those squeaky boots!” At
which he turned on his heel and stumped
down the corridor, to the ill-concealed
amusement of the orderly-sergeant. I
never had any more fuss with him after
that! . . . Though now I wonder just
what he would have done about me if
he had met-up with the four decent lads
who had asked me could they go to town
to the flicks?,
❖ ❖
“Bo”: The flea-hatchery was getting
restless, due less to the fleas, though they
were active enough, than to the Western
which had run out of bullets and become
bogged-down in the romantic swamps.
The hero had been plugged through the
shoulder in his lone joust with the chief
baddie, but he was making light of it as
he stood swapping Hollywooden cliches
with the tepid heroine, the while he
slowly twirled his 10-gallon Stetson and
sheepishly patterned the dust with his
boot. The damsel looked at him shyly.
“Won’t you come in for a while?” she
said at the ranch-door. The young bloods
in the front stalls knew that that meant a
hiatus in the more serious business of
working the ironmongery, and the ensuing
clamor was terrific. Then out of a tem-
porary lull, and while the hero was
making up his mind, a voice roared:
“Gord blime, don’t go in there for a
mush-session, mate —you’re a clot-case
already!,”
* ♦ ❖
“W.P.T.”: A relative of mine conducts
a lending-library in a Sydney suburb and
does quite a good business. The other
day a man called and asked her to sign
a petition to the local council to establish
a free lending-library.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pooh-Bah”: Five years ago Britain’s
Library Association could have been
added to “L.R.M.’s” list of premature
mourners for the expected death of the
reading-habit in that country (B.
5/1/’55). TV, which had been going for
a year, was the accused. These gloomy
predictions apparently proved to be un-
founded, for the association is now thank-
ing TV for boosting lendings from public
libraries. The association claims that TV
has stimulated interest in previously
neglected subjects such as archaeology
and ballet. The “do it yourself” pro-
grammes are also said to have caused a
tremendous increase in the borrowing of
handicraft-books. Overall, the number
of books borrowed from British public
libraries has increased by just over 30
per cent, since 1939.
WONT BE LONG NOW
"Why,” asked the weary wife, "do they have school-holidays in midsummer
With the younger boy banging a biscuit-tin in the bedroom in imitation of a visiting
jazz-drummer,
And the older boy making scientific experiments all over the kitchen-sink
So that you don’t know if ifs science or the defective refrigerator or the cat that’s
responsible for the stink?
And little girls knock on the door to ask if the boys can come out,
Or if Annie’s here because Mother wants her, or to complain that they’ve been
pushed about;
And the junior boy bursts into tears at the drop of a hat
Because he’s not allowed to swim at the Aquarium until after lunch, or he s been
bopped in the eye with a cricket-bat,
Or he won’t be allowed to go visiting at another boy’s place until nine-o’clock
at night
To do conjuring-tricks, listen to gramophone-records and pull the place to pieces
with a pillow-fight;
Or else he’s been out all day and tea’s waiting and he’s not home yet,
And you feel if he were here you could give him a good one, but all you can
do is twitter and fret,
And when he gets home you find he’s been going round for a fortnight with a
cut in his foot and it’s festered;
And all the time you are being pestered, pestered, pestered, pestered and pestered
For money to buy soft-drinks, ice-creams, Meccano-parts, thermometers and
disguised gambling-games,
Chocolates, chisels, wheels for scooters and comics about dissolute guys and dames,
And over it all the radio roars out the popular drivel
Of American crooners of whom the kids know every distinguishing snuffle and
snivel —
All, you hope and pray, but the meaning that a conference of psychologists and
grammarians
Might extract from the songs of those insatiable voluptuarians . . .
However, the darkest hour is just before the dawn, and in a week or so you’ll be
through,
And except for buying their school-books, paying their fees, mending their shirts,
socks and pants, having their shoes repaired, cutting their lunches, getting
them up early in the morning and doing their homework for them at night,
you won’t have anything much to do.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


pLINDERS - STREET, Melbourne,
offers no barriers to the person who
has mislaid his ticket or forgotten to buy
one. The safest exit is through the cafe-
teria. Entry into the cafeteria —like
trade between the States —is absolutely
free, and may be made either from the
street or from the platform. Thus those
who wish to add their contribution to the
annual revenue-deficit can go through.
It’s such a perfect set-up I’m amazed it’s
not used more often. You can’t tell me it’s
because people are honest. —“Crunch.”
“Clyde”: A special visco-static type
motor-oil put on the Australian market
has the smell of passionfruit, which
should make it popular with women. It
may be only a forerunner: the woman-
driver of the near-future will pull-up at
a service-station, and say to the attendant:
“I’ll have 10 gallons of Almond Blossom
petrol, and some distilled Lavender Water
“How about defrosting a little , huh ?”
in the battery . . . Oh, and please, while
you’re at it, just a teeny-weeny touch of
Jasmine behind each headlight!”
♦+♦ +>
“Not Least”: On having to learn to
use office telephone (B. 5/1 /’55). My first
call, at 16, made under the supervision of
a country postmistress, was to the local
bank-manager, seeking instructions about
proceeding to my first appointment. A
little nervous, anyway, I was further
upset by the frowns and head-shaking of
the lady during our talk. She disapproved
of my acknowledging each point with a
laconic “0.K.” Twenty-five years later
I heard our newly acquired junior ending
a call from a client: “Okey-dokey. I’ll
tell the manager you rang.” He took
my suggestion about a trifle more for-
mality quite well, but was overheard to
say later that “They expect you to put on
airs and graces on the phone here.
♦♦♦ ♦> ❖
“Quo Vadis”: The new Midlander
train running from Rockhampton to Win-
ton (Q.) is providing pleasant transport
for weary people. Summer temperatures
west of Rocky can be fierce; the train s
interior is cool and invigorating. Press-
reports say it is air-conditioned through-
out, but, in fact, the guard’s van has no
such luxury. If anything, it is hotter and
stuffier than the old types, and they were
a long way off the ice.
*X* *X* ❖
“Bennetts”: When the N.SJW. Govern-
ment of 1867 passed an Act prohibiting
burials within the city of Sydney, a new
cemetery of 200 acres was established at
Haslem’s Creek, 10 miles out —today’s
Rookwood. For many years it and the
surrounding district were known as the
Necropolis. In those days two funeral-
trains ran daily from Sydney, and accord-
ing to the N.S.W. Almanac of 1867 the
charges were:
Corpse, free; friends, each, Is. return.
Note: Paupers, corpse and friends free.
Special trains: Corpse, 10s., friends, each,
3s. return.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: When you have reached the
top rung of the ladder, and when there
is no longer any higher position to which
you can aspire, then you can relax. So
says “Woodenit” (B. 5/1 / ’55). Welfi it
was the last day in office (before retire-
ment) of a general-manager of one of the
big private trading-banks. He had
cleaned-up his table and was waiting for
the staff of his department to assemble
for the farewell-speeches and presenta-
tion. The afternoon mail was brought in,
just his personal mail, and the first letter
he opened was from a business-efficiency
concern —the sort of show that bombards
junior clerks with prospectuses of how
to get on in the world arid so forth. The
letter drew attention to the fact that a
small down-payment and a mere five-
bob a week would assure the g.-m.’s rise
in the profession of his choice. It hit
the w.p.b. with a thud.
♦♦♦
“Rigel”: Loss of dentures in picture-
theatres (B. 5/1/’55) is by no means
uncommon. In one of Melbourne’s luxury
cinemas a woman patron fainted during
the show, and was carried out by an
usherette, with kindly neighbors assist-
ing. Coming-to in the manager’s office,
she found that she had lost her teeth, and
the usherette went back to search. As
she flashed her torch along the row, a
woman sitting beside the vacant seat took
her eyes off the screen for a moment,*
only to be confronted with a floodlighted
upper-set grinning at her from her lap.
She fainted, was carried out by the
usherette, with kindly neighbors assisting,
and she, too, had to be revived in the
manager’s office. This is not the only sort
of cross that managers have to bear.
‘ Souveniring is rife in the, better-furnished
theatres. It’s amazing what a seemingly
upper-class audience can get away with.
They’ve been known to palm pot-plants,
brass jardinieres, vases, and even gold-
fish, alive, alive-oh.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Swingle”: Apart from the fact that
complaints against speed-hogs go back a
long way, as “W.P.T.” mentions (B.
12/1/’54), it must be remembered that
traffic-offences existed before the internal-
combustion engine. My father has in his
possession a summons, dated 1919, for
driving a horse-drawn wagon through
the streets of Launceston without reins
on the leaders. Although the Old Man
had such a perfect understanding with
his team that he could, as he sometimes
boasts even now, stop the wagon on a
threepence without a rein, the Bench
apparently took a dim view of such
negligent driving. The fine, 155., was
quite a bite out of the 25-bob-a-week
Dad tells me he was getting in those days.
• <4t. • • •
“Orang Puteh”: Seen in George-street,
Sydney, recently, a young, high-spirited,
“And John Was complaining about MY plunging neckline!”
high-stepping horse harnessed to an old-
style long-shafted jinker. The driver was
of that sparse, hard-bitten, horsey type
of elderly men usually associated with
horses. As the turnout moved smartly
down George-street —at a faster pace
than the motor-traffic that made way for
it—even the young policeman on traffic-
duty, perhaps fearful of the consequences
if he halted it, gave it the right-of-way.
As it sped serenely by, spectators were
amused to see, tacked to the rear of the
jinker, the familiar large black L on a
yellow background. And indeed anyone
driving a jinker in Sydney traffic has
plenty to learn.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Mullum”: Touching the remarks of
“Quo Vadis” (B. 22/12/’54) on exchange
charged on cheques ; can anyone tell me
who is legally responsible for the charge?
If I pay exchange on a customer’s
cheque and add the amount to his next
account can he refuse to pay it? If so,
could I sue for it? I have put the ques-
tion to a number of bank-managers, but
none has ever given a definite answer.
“So long as the bank collects the
exchange we don’t care who pays it”
seems to be their attitude.
• ♦♦♦
“5 G.R.”: The constant stream of
Gurkha officers and other ranks to staff-
college and other training in England
from their regiments in Malaya is met in
London by former British officers and a
War Office liaison-officer, all speaking
Gurkhali. Generally they follow British
tradition and instruct in English, the lan-
guage at which the Gurkhas have proved
adept. But one officer was misunderstood.
He announced a cookery-course, and the
whole school volunteered. They, the
little bloodthirsty warriors, thought it
was a kukri-comsQ.
♦+♦
“An Chuidh”: Colchester, on The
Bulletin’s cover (5/1 /’55), was Old King
Cole’s home-town. A Celtic king before
the days of the Romans, he found
Colchester one of the most thriving of
Briton towns. The castle keep, strangely
not mentioned, was built largely by the
Romans of their characteristic long, very
narrow bricks, and used by the Normans,
who extended the fortifications. Still
standing, and used as a museum, it is the
oldest used building in England.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Wigan”: On the local oval the bats-
man played forward defensively. Snick!
The ball flew into the hands of the wicket-
keeper. “Out,” said the umpire with
solemn deliberation. “It came off my
pads,” protested the batsman defiantly.
“Out,” repeated the umpire, and strolled
over to the scorebook and marked in the
appropriate space—l.b.w.
❖ ❖ ❖
“F.S.”: If anybody wants to see what
the huge stone figures representing the
three Services which fought in World
War 11, to be erected on the new Shrine
Forecourt monument at the Shrine of
Remembrance in Melbourne, will look
like, he has only to look at Ted Scorfield’s
cartoon, “Socialist Masterpiece,” in The
Bulletin of January 5. I am not offering
any criticism of Mr. Scorfield when I say
that in form and in quality of execution
the three figures of a sailor, a soldier
and an airman holding up a cornice are
exactly like it, though in three, instead of
in two, dimensions. Mr. Scorfield is an
excellent cartoonist, and I don’t suppose,
when he was drawing his fat man with
no clothes on labelled “Prices” he
imagined that he was doing a great
artistic job before which future genera-
tions would stand reverentially with tears
in their eyes and their hats off. He was
expressing an idea, and he expressed it
admirably and as well as a cartoonist
could do. The sculptors who carved
these objects certainly wouldn’t regard
themselves as cartoonists, yet in what way
are these figures with their balloon-tyre
legs differentiated from Mr. Scorfield’s
fat man?
❖ ++♦
“Lynece”: A director of the Co-opera-
tive Wholesale Society, proposing the
toast of “The Guests” at the Co-operative
Funeral Service Managers’ Association
annual banquet: “You are the most vital
craft-organisation in the co-operative
movement....”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jason”: Blue-ribbons to Canberra for
the highest birth-rates for the years 1949-
1952 and a red-ribbon for 1953 (B.
12/1/’55). Under the same Administra-
tion —which apparently believes in more
of everything—we have the most preg-
nant public-service in our history (B.
29 /12/’54). Nothing should be done
about the foreign-diplomats’ complaints
that Canberra is lacking in entertainment.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tas.”: One of the few specially posh
places remaining in England is the Royal
Enclosure at Ascot, to which only
Royalty and the bluest of blue-blood
people-are admitted. It is regarded as
one of the highest honors in England to
be “invited” to this holy-of-holies during
the racing-season. A Minister of the Aus-
tralian Federal Government was asked
by Australia House officials if he would
like to receive an invitation. Although
not a racing man, he jumped at the privi-
lege ; but when he was told that a fee of
fifteen-guineas (probably twice that
amount now) was expected, he promptly
declined. This was regarded almost as
lese-majesty by the Home Office and by
Australia House. I am reminded of the
occasion by a paragraph in London “News
Chronicle,” just to hand, which reads:
“An Ascot official said unofficially that
there might be difficulty in filling the new
enclosure suitably if divorced persons
were excluded.” Sic transit gloria mundi.
HUMAN PESTS
High upon the list is he
Who’ll invariably repeat
The last few words of what you’ve
just been saying;
And the one who parks his knee
Against your back — he’s in the seat
Behind you at the flicks. When
holidaying
At a guest-house there’s the goon
Who is always on the go,
Arranging tournaments for billiards,
tennis —
Something every afternoon;
For an answer won’t take “No.”
A peace-despoiler he, a first-rate
menace.
Let me nominate the cow
Who, when he shouts, has a beer,
When your turn comes, calls for a
double-whisky ;
And the party r hound who’ll vow
When you’re sagging, feeling queer
At 3 a.m., that he’s just getting frisky.
Side-step, if you’re able to
One whose small son is the sole
Topic of long and drooling con-
versation,
He who all his words must chew,
Or who’s lacking all control
Over a loud and high-pitched cac-
chination.
There’s the cove whose yarn is so
Interminably strung out
Because of endless splutterings that
spray you,
And the fellow you all know
Who will never fail to spout
His exclamation-mark: “Wouldn’t
it slay you ?”
There’s the incurable aphorist.
But the champ, emerges clear —
The urge is overwhelming to brick-
bat him;
He’s the conversationalist
Who will put his dial so near
To yours you go quite cock-eyed
looking at him.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
The Sayonara Cup (named after a fast-
sailer of the early 1900’s) is probably the
trophy most highly prized in Australian
yachting. N. S. Wales hadn’t seen it for
the past 23 years; then along came Bill
Northam, a one-time salesman on the
road with Johnson and Johnson, the
baby-powder people, in Sydney. Three
years ago Northam would have been
confused between a spinnaker and a
stanchion. He took up yachting for
pleasure, and applied to the science the
driving-competence which has lifted him
from salesman to managing-director of
his firm; entered his 50ft. sloop Saskia
in the Sayonara Cup on Port Phillip Bay,
and laced the sails off some of the most
experienced skippers of Victoria and
Tasmania, winning three of the four
heats. Big and bluff, hailing from
Sydney’s Wahroonga, the cup-winner has
done quite a bit of car-racing in his day.
• ' *
A deep-water seaman who got his extra
master’s certificate (and a command with
it) at 21, Captain George Whitton takes
over the presidential helm of the N.S.W.
Maritime Services Board. That first com-
mand was a barque trading out of New
Zealand; the latest takes in a multitude
of jobs—responsibility for pilotage,
dredging, wharf-inspection, bond-stores,
fire-floats ana a host of other duties in-
cluded in supervising one of the greatest
harbors in the world. Of a short, sea-
toughened frame, Whitton (whose dry wit
must have enlivened many a watch from
WHITTON, of M.S.B.
Southampton to Singapore) was at sea
at 15. With the Union S.S. Co. when
War I broke, he joined the R.A.N.,
transferred to the Mother Navy, and was
navigating-officer of a shallow-draught
6in.-gunned monitor at Gallipoli and the
Gaza show in Palestine. Later he increased
his draught—serving in submarines, and
taking the surrender of two U-boats at
Harwich. He’s had 16 years of piloting,
and has been on the board he now heads
since 1942. Son Tom, an asdic-officer in
a War II corvette, had the satisfaction
of pinging on a Jap submarine coming at
his ship’s convoy in the Bay of Bengal;
credited with a kill. He’s now a civil-
engineer with the Geelong Harbor Trust.
• •
Now Australian Minister to Siam,
D. O. Hay, one-time secretary to the
High Commissioner in Ottawa, has just
completed a year at the Imperial Defence
College. The military interest continues
from a solid career in War II —Middle
East, Greece, New Guinea; D. 5.0.,
M.B.E.
e •
“Morehead” on some old hands:
When The Bulletin has its 75th birthday
next Monday (January 31) it will have on its
payroll 25 employees with more than 30 years’
service and another 20 who have been with it
for over a quarter of a century.
Prank Smith, who manages the Perth office,
and who helped with the first issue of The
Woman’s Mirror, joined in 1905; runner-up
is foreman-compositor Ray Ormes (1907), a
great worker for the Toe H. movement and the
Cammeray (Sydney) Community Centre. Fore-
man-machinist Bob' Martin (1908), who sailed
18-footers on Sydney Harbor when younger, is
third on the list.
Fred Shettle (1909), foreman of the publishing-
room, comes fourth. Managing-director H. K.
Prior came in 1910 as assistant to the financial
editor, went off to World War I, and returned
to become manager, and later to take over his
present position when his father, S. H. Prior
(The Bulletin’s fourth editor, and its managing-
director after. William Macleod), died in 1933.
Lockie Brown (1911), pigeon-fancier at other
times, and Tommy Waddell l4) are still-active
stalwarts of the machine-room.
Bill Fitz Henry first climbed The Bulletin
stairs in 1917 and has served as secretary since
1920 to three of the paper’s editors. Leo Gocher,
in the process-engraving department tor 3 '
years, is the son of a Manly (N.S.W.) newspaper
editor who pioneered surfing in that seaside
suburb. - . . . .
Others with more than 30 years service include
Jock Bruce (works-manager), Clyde _ Moyes
(financial editor), Mervyn Skipper (Melbourn
literary rep.), Charles MacDonald (circulation),
Syd Smith (2 i/c, composing-room; a deep-sea
fisherman), “Nobby” Clark, Arthur Gray, M.
Condon, Jack Cranney, “Johnny” Hawtin Jim
Small, Noel Williams, W. J. Regan, Steve
Sillick, Charlie Walters, and Ken Sutherland.
Artist Ted Scorfield came to The Bulletin
in April, 1925, and Cecil Mann (associate editor)
the same month. David Adams, the present
editor, has been with the paper since 192/.
Brisbane manager Phil Prior, a brother of ri-Jv-j
and one of the paper’s directors, also joined in
1927. A. E. Burge and Marion Oates joined
the Brisbane office the following year.
Others with more than 25 years, service
include Tom Mitchell, Gerry Henderson, A,-
Reilly, H. Clampett, J. Seddon, Lester Simpson,
Barney King, Tom Purcell, Dick Field, Syu
Mallett, Jack Ferguson, Stan Smith, L. Donovan
and George Rex.
• •'
Twenty-four-year-old Perth clarinetist
Donald Westlake has left for London
for further study of clarinet and piano at
the Royal Academy of Music —accom-
panied by his wife, formerly Heather
Sumner, a first-violin in Sydney Symphony
Orchestra. He had already studied at
Melbourne University and Melbourne
Conservatorium. In 1952 Westlake tied
for first place in the ABC vocal and con-
certo competition, and won in 1953, the
first clarinetist to do so. He learnt his
scales and exercises from his mother, a
noted pianist, who was his accompanist
at concerts in Melbourne.
• •
“M.”: There’s another of those scarce
eggs in the crow’s-nest (B. 12/1/’55 in
Commander TI. A. Hodkinson, promoted
in the latest Navy list. Passed up the
hawse-pipe through every rating on the
lower-deck to present three-rings, Hodkin-
son joined as a boy, second-class (than
which there is no lower), got his first com-
mission 18 years later, and served his
time in most of the old-stagers of the
R.A.N., with, as latest sea-going address,
modern destroyer Tobruk, in Korea. A
supply-officer, he’s now secretary to the
Second Naval Member in Melbourne.
• •
James Leonard Waiker, Westralia’s
first Rhodes Scholar, and on the W.A,
Supreme Court Bench for the past nine
years, is retiring. Born in Sydney 70
years ago, he crossed to Westralia with
his parents in 1891, and was awarded his
Rhodes seven years before the Westralian
University was founded. With B.A. from
Balliol, he was called to the Bar in Eng-
land, admitted to practice in Perth in
1908, and went on to be senior Parlia-
mentary draftsman and later Solicitor-
General. He represented the “Dark
Blues” in Oxford v. Cambridge boxing,
but settles now for golf and motoring.
• •
In Australia on a survey of road-
development, Sir Donald St. Clair Gainer,
head of the International Road Federa-
tion in London. Though concerned full-
time with roads only since 1951, the visi-
tor has had opportunity enough to see
how they run. Educated at Charterhouse,
and in Germany and France, he’s a former
Permanent Under-Secretary of State in
the British Foreign Office, and has been
diplomatically sited (either as Consul,
Charge d’Affaires or Consul-General) in
Narvik, Bergen, Havana, Rotterdam,
Munich, Breslau, Mexico, Bavaria and
Venezuela, ending up with two Ambassa-
dorships, to Brazil in War 11, and to
Poland after it. He is to address the Aus-
tralian Road Federation at its annual get-
together in Melbourne next month.
• ©
Notched 90, as well as his half-century
as chairman of the Australian board of
Eagle Star Insurance, beef-baron Sir
William Angliss. In 1886 he opened a
butcher’s shop, in Carlton, Melbourne,
after a start in the meat-trade in London.
Ten years later he was in the frozen-meat
trade, with a trial shipment to the Cool-
gardie goldfields.
• ©
“Maitri”: A recent important visitor
to Australia was Sir Robert Muir, who,
at the age of 90, flew from Edinburgh to
spend a few weeks at Wahroonga
(N.S.W.) with his sister, Mrs. Welsh, who
is 92. Mrs. Welsh is the widow of Pro-
fessor D. A. Welsh, who for several
decades occupied the Chair of Pathology
at Sydney University, and whose services
to returned soldiers after his retirement
will be remembered with gratitude by
many. Sir Robert, world-known patholo-
gist, in his long association with its medi-
cal school added lustre to the name of
Glasgow University. Medical students
the world over know him as the author
of Muir’s Pathology —a universal text-
book which can be numbered among best-
sellers. James Bridie, a former student
of Sir Robert’s, who graduated from
medicine to playwriting (he was himself
at one time a Professor of Pathology),
has claimed for his former teacher the
record for number of students attaining
Chairs in pathology —no fewer than 27.
While in Sydney, Sir Robert received a
call from another noted doctor, Sir James
Learmont, the surgeon who operated on
George VI.
• •
“Fitz”: A week before he was drowned in
Tallong Creek, near Goulburn (N.S.W.), poet
and novelist Kenneth Mackenzie was in The
Bulletin office, brown and fit after a holiday
in Western Australia, his home State., He
talked enthusiastically about his literary plans,
and left carrying, as was his habit, a rucksack
of reading-matter.
Mackenzie (b. 1913) crossed to Sydney from
Westralia as a young man in the ’thirties. He
wrote four novels. The Young Desire It, pub-
lished when he was 24, earned from The
Bulletin the comment: “It transcends by its
sincerity and freshness the bonds and difficulties
of its genre and subject.” The Chosen People
(1938) was the story of five people caught up
in a psychological impasse, and had the same
elusive beauty as his earlier novel. His Dead
Men Rising (1951), probably the best of all his
prose-work, was based on his experiences as a
corporal guarding the Japanese and Italian
prisoners-of-war. Subsequently withdrawn from
circulation, it is a rarity in the book-world today.
Mackenzie’s fourth novel, The Refuge (1954),
was a psychological analysis of a murder.
Towards the end of last year he was awarded
a Commonwealth Literary Fund Fellowship to
write a novel dealing with the native problem
in Australia, and had made a start on it.
His first book of verse, Our Earth (1937),
won high praise from Ronald McCuaig in The
Bulletin. The “S. M. Herald” reviewer implied
that Angus and Robertson would not have
published it had not Norman Lindsay illustrated
it. This brought a vigorous retort from Norman,
who concluded his reply to the “Herald” by
saying: “Nothing could be more fatuous than
to suppose that a few pen-drawings could confer
distinction on such a potent and sustained
poem as Our Earth.’’’ Mackenzie’s second book
of verse, The Moonlit Doorway, was published
in 1944.
He edited the 1951-52 edition of Australian
Poetry ; his preface contains a lot of sound
advice to young poets. In next week’s Seventy-
fifth Anniversary Number of The Bulletin
Mackenzie is further discussed, among the 150-
odd other poets and story-writers who figure
in one of the article features, “Contemporary
Writers and Poets.”
• •
This is Engineer-Captain Clarence
Walter Bridge, 0.8. E., in the uniform
he’s worn for upwards of 40 years, and
which he’s just exchanged for a bowler-
hat. Son of a Sydney woolbroker—also
Clarence Bridge—C.W, touched 65 this
month. Educated at Riverview and
Sydney University (8.E.), he went from
there to naval engine-rooms, and was at
the taking of Rabaul in 1914. Subse-
quently he served in the Battle-cruiser
Fleet in the North Sea, and in
a destroyer - flotilla in the Mediter-
ranean. Director of Naval Works is a
sizeable job at any time: Bridge took it
on in 1939, his prime task the rapid build-
BRIDGE, of R.A.N.
ing of fuel-installations in Australia and
Pacific islands for what they could be
expected to receive, from both Uncle
Sam and John Bull. Earlier he had super-
vised the building, at the Vickers yards
at Barrow-in-Furness, of the Australian
submarines Oxley and Otway. After
War II he had on his slop-chit the estab-
lishing of the new air-stations at Nowra
and Schofields, as well as radar- and
torpedo-stations close by Sydney. A
grand messmate, he rates in peace-time
as one of the best-dressed officers in the
R.A.N. His recreation is golf, his hand
at it best described as cheerful.
Hugh Williams's father (also Hugh)
was well-known Sydneyside as a Union
Steamship Co. skipper; the son’s main
connection with salters was through a
15ft. sail-boat on Long Island Sound,
his sailing in those waters stemming from
his being based for eight years in the
huge Radio Division of U.N. head-
quarters near by, whence the division
broadcasts to 29 countries in 25
WILLIAMS, of U.N.O.
languages. Hailing from Dunedin (N.Z.),
Williams early had broadcasting experi-
ence in the Dominion, and during univer-
sity-time before that developed a family
leaning towards languages —his father’s
brother, Dr. Harold Williams, one-time
foreign-editor of London “Times,” could
handle so/ne 50 languages, and the nephew
speaks good French and German, and
useful Russian. When the 8.8. C., with
Hitler on the rampage, called for
linguists with broadcasting experience,
Williams crossed to London, to become
manager of the French service of the
8.8. C., sending across-Channel 14 pro-
grammes a day of news and talks. While
there, he worked in close liaison with
the language-supervisor of the European
service, Vernon Duckworth Barker.
Later, Barker came to Sydney, director
of the U.N. Information Centre. Now
Williams (likeness herewith) has suc-
ceeded him in the post. ©
• •
In 1943 J. G. Cornish was bombing
Japs from Milne Bay. Five years lateY
he was “bombing” Berlin —with food and
coal, via the air-lift. Five years later
again he was off on what was the
most important part of his flying career
—two months’ training in England with
the Queen’s Flight. The year after that he
captained the Dakota which carried the
Queen and Duke of Edinburgh on the
Royal tour. He goes now to be staff-
officer advising on air-transport in the
Directorate of Operations ; from another
transport job—C.O., 38 Transport
Squadron.
• ©
“Ceg”: The par. about Melbourne folk
being allegedly confused over a broad-
cast announcement that “G. 8.5.” was
contemplating a visit to Australia (B.
12/1/’55) reminded me that Shaw himself
could never be induced to visit this
country, despite several pressing invita-
tions. He did make a visit to New Zea-
land, and I recall the reception he received
when the ship berthed. Newsmen were
soon up the gangway and the inevitable
question on Canterbury lamb was
broached. To which the great man
replied that he was not in the least inter-
ested in the subject, and for years had
steadfastly refused to make his stomach
a burial-ground for dead animals—
whether of the Canterbury variety or any
other.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 63, Dr. Arthur Madgwick
Davidson, 0.8. E., one-time president of the
' B.M.A. and director of the “Medical Journal
of Australia.” He was born at the old Bank
of N. S. Wales premises in Stanley-street, South
Brisbane, where his father was manager, and
educated at Brisbane Grammar and Sydney
University. He served with Allenby as an
Army doctor in Palestine, and married a nurse.
Returning from the Middle East, he did much
charitable work, especially in Enmore (Sydney),
and for the Salvation Army Hospital, Bethesda,
at Marrickville. Of his five children, a son is
in the R.A.A.F. and two others are doctors.
Six clergymen attended his funeral, Archbishop
Mowll delivering the oration.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 81, Herbert Kyle,
for 28 years mayor of Riccarton (a record for
N.Z.) and for 18 years its representative m
Parliament. A Melbourne man, he was educated
at Geelong College (where he was half-mile
champ.), studied at Melbourne Veterinary
College and practised as a vet. in Ballarat till
1901, when he crossed to New Zealand. He
became a successful breeder of Guernsey cattle,
Clydesdale horses and cob-ponies.


" f
(Josr ENOUGH TO COVER THE
Bottom op the cage . /m 5:0 T£g&6iy
AfBAIP OF THE POOR. PARuMO PuRINCr
Electrical, storms /'
V.I.P.


ABORIGINALITIES
ON the road outside the little town-
ship’s pub Sam and Bill were dis-
cussing the season. “On my place,” said
Bill, “there’s a blade of grass here,”
kicking the dust with the toe of his boot,
“one there,” another kick, “and another
one over there,” with one more kick.
“It’s crook, all right.” Sam stared at the
three little puffs of powdery dust floating
away. “You ain’t got much to growl
about,” he commented. “On my joint
there’s a blade here,” kick, “another
there,” kick, “but,” another kick, “there's
nothin’ at all over there /” —“Hugh
Galleon.”
* * * *
“Harden”: It’s sound policy at all
times to keep your hair on. And in Junee
(N.S.W.) you should keep your dentures
in as well. A New Australian was fined
a fiver there for jabbig a shearer with
a penknife. Defence averred that the
shearer, in the pub, removed his false
fangs and, after waggling them at the
N.A. (a sensitive Italian), invited Giuseppe
to pop them in his —Giuseppe’s—beer.
Followed rude words and fracas, with
shearer ultimately prodded with migrant
penknife in a spot described to s’Worship
as “the buttock.” S.M., deploring den-
ture-demonstration, held same not enough
to warrant the piercing of shearer’s mole-
skins.
* * * *
“Uramao”: W. H. Dawbin, lecturer
in zoology at Victoria University College,
Wellington (N.Z.), has succeeded in
hatching-out two tuatara, the world’s
oldest extant reptile. He also has two
that were captured on Stephens Island,
in Cook Strait. The 21b. male he estimates
to be a century old ; the female, slightly
smaller, is expecting. The hatched-out
pair aren’t exactly sweet-tempered—one
of them chewed the tail off the other over
a disputed meal, but the victim is rapidly
developing a fresh rudder. Dawbin de-
bunks some popular misconceptions con-
cerning the tuatara. It does not, cuckoo-
like, side-step parental obligations ; it will
drink (even its bathwater), and it is not
silent.
* * * *
“Ananias II”: What’s all this about
Australians lacking enterprise? Ala y
grazier close by here has crossed a kan-
garoo with a sheep so that she
can have a woolly jumper.
“Bass”: The cyclone which hit
the north-west coast of W.A.
at Roebourne early on New
Year’s Day swept right across
the State, entered the Great Aus-
tralian Bight near Eucla, and
finished-up in Bass Strait, going
2500 miles in less than three
days. It was a sizeable disturb-
ance, up to 200 miles across, with
wind-volocities up to 100 m.p.h.
and a forward movement of
about 40 m.p.h. It drove the
coastal steamer Dulverton
ashore on a sandy beach at
Lewis Island (about 50 miles
west of Roebourne), wrecked a
few townships and deluged coun-
try that hadn’t seen rain for
years; then cut across the edge
of the Simpson Desert, skirted
the eastern goldfields, took in
part of the Victoria Desert and
crossed the Nullarbor. It brought
rain most of the way, and what
fell in the deserts won’t be
wasted. The kangaroo
menace partly stems from short-
age of natural feed away from the
waterholes. With abundant feed and
water outback, the ’roos and euros will
go for it and leave the close-in feed for
the stock.
* * * .*
“Sack”: The extent to which fish are
affected by the salinity or freshness of
their element (B. 29/12/’54) depends
largely on the species of fish. At Corrimal
(N.S.W.) a small lagoon is open or closed
to the sea according to the whims of the
elements, which can build-up a sand-bar
that may be impenetrable for months or
even years, then remove it completely in
a few hours. One year when the lagoon
was cut off from the sea heavy rain fell
for several days. Fine weather came
again, and immediately the surface of the
lagoon close to the sand-bar was literally
covered with hundreds of floating bream,
their gills working feebly, mouths open.
Opportunists arrived in droves, and
sugarbagfuls of fish were gathered within
minutes. But amidst this piscine harvest
not one mullet was found, although
jumping mullet had always been conspicu-
ous in the lagoon and its feeder, Taradgie
Creek. The explanation? Bream can’t
exist in water that has lost its salinity;
mullet are unaffected.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Once knew an in-
telligent young fullblood native who was
well-educated and mission-trained, and
who wasn’t encumbered with any more
superstitions than the average white —
but he had an unshakable belief in the
power of the pointed-bone (B. 24/12/’54).
“Look! Cap'n ’s out for a hoss-ride 's mornin'.”
Only a “clever” man —I took that to be
a medicine-man —could operate it, and he
had first to get a special bone from a
“clever” place which only a few of the
tribe knew. This young chap claimed
he’d seen the bone-pointing action and
had heard the click —a very definite click
—as the bone discharged its deadly mis-
sile. He had at least as much faith in that
weapon as I’d have in a loaded .303.
* * * *
“A.J.S.”: A steel hammer and a steel
wedge and two men using them at Mar-
“The game's not fair."
garet River (W.A.) As one struck the
wedge with the hammer a piece of steel
flew off and embedded itself in the second
man?s knee. It took a doctor to remove
the splinter. Later in the day the two
men reversed jobs, and another piece of
steel flew off, hitting No. 2 in the knee.
He, too, had to go to the doctor. Next
day the job was restarted, with a third
workman. Within a few minutes he also
had a steel splinter in the knee and had to
be taken to a doctor.
* * * *
“Orang Puteh”: The record weight-
carrying effort in the course of an ordin-
ary day’s work? Chinese coolies loading
tin-ore on lorries at Australian-owned
mines in Malaya regularly carry a mini-
mum of three bags of ore, each weighing
851 b.; total load, 2551 b. Some men
carry four bags (3401 b.), others five
(4251 b.). A few have been known to
carry up to seven. Admittedly tin-ore
is a convenient load. A heavy black sand,
packed in stout canvas bags, 18in. by
12in., only three-parts filled to allow the
bags to lie flat when stacked.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: The locals told me the
cocky was a casual sort of cove, but I
didn’t realise just what that meant until
I was preparing to peg the* building out.
He had a plan—one he’d borrowed from
somebody; therefore site-position and
aspect were not applicable. I asked for
that information. “Aw, stick her up on
that bit of a rise,” was his instruction.
“Which way do you want it to face?” I
asked. “Aw, I dunno,” he drawled.
“Somewhere out that way’d be as good as
any other, I suppose.” The swing of his
arm took in a big slice of the compass.
It was somewhat bewildering when you’d
been used to working where half-an-inch
on the wrong side of a boundary could
lead to a law-case, “But that’s pretty
vague,” I protested. “Will you come and
show me exactly where you want it, and
I’ll put a couple of pegs in and square off
’em?” He agreed, led the way to the
site, and had a glance around, then gave
his decision: “Stick her so the backdoor
clears that rabbit-burrer. Man don’t
want to break his leg one dark night.”
And from that datum-point—a rabbit-
burrow —the job was set out.
* * * *
“Baksac”: Ever since Federation in-
ventors have bombarded State Govern-
ments with devices for overcoming the
differing rail-gauges. A Swedish-Austra-
lian engineering firm can point to a prac-
tical system in everyday, efficient use.
Spain exports large quantities of fruit,
vegetables and other perishables through
France to England. Refrigerated rail-
vans are used, the van being lifted from
the rails to the boat for the Channel-
crossing. The French railway-gauge be-
ing different from the Spanish, unloading
and reloading at the border used to cause
great loss of time and goods. Now, at
the border, a section of both rails over-
lap ; two vans at a time are run on to
the stretch, and four jacks lift each van
off its axles. Sets of axles with the wheels
spaced at the required gauge are rolled
under the horn-brackets and the vans
lowered again. A simple, speedy opera-
tion that could be just as effective in
Australia.
* * * *
“Fairf”: The red-checker pigeon wasn’t
young when he was given to the 10-year-
old boy. At 16 the lad grew tired of
pigeon-keeping, sold all his birds except
Red, and gave the old fellow his freedom.
For years Old Red lived in the ironbarks,
pirating a girl-friend every season and
bringing her home to rear a family of
little freelances. The result is flaunted in
red patches on scores of pigeons in the
locality, most of his offspring seeming to
think the red feathers sufficient passport
to permit them to join him in the chook-
yard at mealtimes. His erstwhile master
is now 21; Old Red, though noticeably
long in the wattle, was still going strong
until the other day, when the excited
behavior of kids on the road drew atten-
tion. Old Red had uttered his last coo.
The eye-witnesses’ evidence: “He jest
fell off that wire; he musta got electri-
fied.” Possible, perhaps, that by some
freak accident he made contact with both
positive and negative wires ; on the other
hand, ageing pigeons may suffer heart-
failure. The verdict remains open.
* * * *
THE PITTA
THE surmise in M. G. Vincent’s enter-
taining yarn, “The Noisy Pitta” (B.
5/1/’55), that a few ornithologists may
have tracked this bird down, and sat for
hours observing him, is slightly off the
rails.
You don’t track down this beautiful
jungle denizen. He himself does the
“tracking.”
When his ringing call, “Walk to work,”
resounds in a sub-tropical forest it is
simply a matter of whistling an imitation
to have the bird come into view. I myself
have called-up a pitta by repeated
whistles (and not specially good imitations)
over almost a quarter-mile of South
Queensland jungle. And how beautiful
he was with patches of sunlight playing
on his rainbow-colored plumage!
Museum collectors of old were well
aware of the pitta’s bump of curiosity;
one of them ungratefully complained that
the birds often came so close on being
called that he had difficulty in shooting
them without blasting off most of the
feathers.
As for sitting and observing the species
“for hours,” this could only be done at
a nest (and only if you were willing to
risk being eaten alive by ticks and leeches),
but, in fact, the nest of the pitta is rarely
found and the bird itself has never been
photographed domestically.
M.G.V. refers also to the ability of the
dragoon-bird (the common bush-name for
the pitta) as a killer of land-snails. That
reminds me of an occasion when
wanderers in the Killarney district of
Queensland were puzzled by hearing, day
after day, a curious “tink-tink” sounding
in a jungle area. An idea began to pre-
vail that some ghostly presence was
operating. Eventually the noise was
traced to a pitta cracking snails —having
no stone handy, he was using for the pur-
pose a partly buried example of one of
Australia’s emblems, the stout base of
an empty beer-bottle.
Phil Anthus.
JENNY’S SONG
Jenny at her daily tasks
Often sings it over,
“Come back my soldier boy,
Come back my lover.”
Come sow or harvest-time,
Drought-time or clover;
Jenny says, “My darling, O
Come back my lover.”
Sings to the hills he loved,
To old dog Rover,
“Where is your master, O
Come back my lover.”
Jenny’s eyes are haunted caves
Where strange lights hover.
“Ten years I’ve waited, O
Come back my lover.”
They tell her he’s a dead man,
But Jenny, like a plover
Plaintively crying, sings,
“Come back my lover.”
yiCTORIA.
LOUIS H. CLARK.


IN the tough days of the early ’thirties
I was in charge of a one-teacher
West Queensland school 40 miles from
the nearest township. Two annual visitors
were the school-dentist and the school-
inspector, and for economy reasons they
came together. While Mr. Inspector in-
spected upstairs, Mr. Tugg tugged down-
stairs (there were no fillings), and as each
victim was released from the chair he
was sent back to his class with a slip of
paper bearing the name of the next. Both
inspecting and extracting were completed
in half a day, and .it was with sighs of
relief and swollen jaws that the pupils
watched the dust of the departure.
Academically and dentally, it was the
quickest once-over any seat of learning
ever got. —“Elies.”
* * * *
“Saaedi”: I doubt whether people who
habitually feed birds are actually as kind
to them as they think. Usually the same
birds get the handouts, and these ruth-
lessly drive off newcomers. Like their
counterparts for whom life is made too
easy, their moral and physical fibre suffers.
They get lazy, lose their self-reliance and
those characteristics make it hard for
them when the benefactions cease.
"* * * *
“Sister Ellell”: Very early in my train-
ing did I learn that the possum is pro-
tected! The staff overflowed the Nurses’
Home, and some of us used to sleep in a
lovely old house amid wooded grounds a
few miles from the hospital. The old
place had the old-fashioned bell-pull
system, and the still of the night would
be rent with a ghastly cacophony—the
possums scampering over the wires in
the roof, setting all the bells a-jingle, As
well for the little fellows that they were
protected.
* * * #
“Tidbinbilla”: Starkly wrong figures
(B. 8/12/’54)? A Brisbane columnist,
who wrote that a lady received back 255.
after putting five-bob on a winner at 5
to 1, claims that he got numerous pro-
tests from outraged punters. (Now he
knows that you get your five-bob back,
too). On the other hand, when a scient-
ist drops a brick or is misquoted, usually
no one seems to notice. So it was when a
large meteor passed over Sydney and fell
into the sea near Ulladulla, 105 miles
south. The “S. M. Herald” reported:
“The assistant astronomer at Sydney
Observatory, Mr. K. Sims, said that pro-
bably it had been 60 miles above the
earth’s surface and travelling at 200 miles
a second." At this fantastic ultra-speed
the journey from Sydney to Ulladulla
would take just over half a second,
while, in fact, the meteor must have re-
mained visible for at least ten times as
long as that. But there are some bloomers
which even a scientist can’t get away
with. The secretary of the Royal Society
in Canberra discovered this while read-
ing the minutes of the previous meeting
when he read: “Our guest-speaker, Dr.
Sawbones, described the effects of
German-measles contracted during the
first twelve months of pregnancy.”
* * * V
“Quo Vadis”: I was reporting local-
authority meetings in a Queensland coun-
try-town, and the Health Inspector was
on the mat over the mosquito-menace.
An angry committee instructed him to
locate the mossies and report to next
meeting, when summonses would be
issued. The time came. Chairman:
“where are the mosquitoes breeding, In-
spector?” H. 1.: “In the council drains,
Mr. Chairman, millions of them.” Coun-
cillors deemed court-action extreme ; the
drains were sprayed instead.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A rumor got around a Western
District (Vic.) township that a bushfire
which had taken a band of volunteers all
night to get under control had been
started by sailors, and of course it wasn’t
long before someone positively saw
skulking around some dark, foreign-look-
ing men who walked with a roll. The
local cop set out to trace the story back
to its source, which he found in, the
answer a firefighter had given to a New
"You don’t offer much salary, sir —what will my
entertaining-allowance he?”
Australian woman who had asked him
what he thought had started it. “It’s
them sailers,” said the blackened warrior,
“Sailers” are the burning branches which
in a high wind are often carried aston-
ishingly long distances to start fresh fires.
* * * *
. ttxr i „ x , * , . , .
Kelms : Westralia s population being
strictly limited by water-supplies, they’re
trying spreading a film of cetyl-alcohol
over dams and other large bodies of
water, to reduce evaporation, which,
measured in the same way as the rain-
fall, is in some parts up to 72in. a year; a
dam holding 12ft. of water loses the top
6ft. by evaporation. The film of cetyl-
alcohol, spread at the rate of lib. to every
acre of water-surface, is expected to re-
duce this loss by 50 per cent., and that may
be as good as you’d do by covering the
dam with a corrugated-iron roof. That’s
been tried often, and the Government
dam at Wicherina, which supplies Ger-
aldton, is, at about 20 acres, one of the
largest-roofed areas in the world; but it’s
a costly process. Another scheme tried in
W.A. lays a film of oil or kerosene. On
small areas that works fairly well, but on
a big dam, which catches the wind, the
oil is blown to one side. Cetyl-alcohol,
obtained from the sperm-whale, but also
produced synthetically, may prove more
suitable.
SANCTUARY
Spear-straight, ghost-white, the grass-trees stand,
Oldest of earth’s trees, in earth’s oldest land.
Great goannas bask here, honey-eaters cry,
Dark hunters roved here in'days gone by.
Whitely the moon shines on bright Broken Bay,
Sombre my alien skin, so pale by day.
Hearts’ blood is warm red, white the bleached
bone,
Old gods abide here, slumbering, unknown.
Casuarinas’ soft hair pads the forest floor,
Shadowed boughs murmuring ancient forest
Bombwip the earth’s side —death rends the
sea— , ,
Their shudder has not touched my quiet grass-
tree.
N.S.W.
LOIS FULLAGR.
AT ANY RATE...
jCOR years I had accepted, with what
A philosophy I could muster, the
steadily increasing rates with which our
shire-council annually slugged me. But
this year the jump was steep, and rebel-
lion at last rumbled.
Among the list of items making up the
total I fastened on to two on which to
base my hot protest.
One was Street Lighting, £1 Bs. 6d.;
the other, Special Improvement Scheme,
struck at 0.232 pence in the pound, total
15s. 7d.
Let other village Hampden s take to the
"I'd like to get away somewhere for my holidays."
shotgun if they would. For myself, it
was the ball-point.
The Shire Clerk,
Sir* I notice among the items in my
rate-notice just received (No. 32140) one
for Street Lighting, £1 Bs. 6d.
This I consider an outrageous impost.
As a ratepayer my use of it is limited to
no more than 12 minutes a night—that is,
during the time when, homing from my
nocturnal sorties, I am forced to traverse
what Council is pleased flatteringly to
refer to as its thoroughfares.
I calculate the time on the basis of
having to crawl along at 8 m.p.h. so as
to negotiate the foot-deep pot-holes
which are so salient a feature of Council’s
road-engineering," and thus avoid a
broken axle or a floating-liver.
I am apparently being billed for the
full dusk-to-dawn burning-time of 10
hours; as I use exactly 2 p.c. of this, I
therefore return assessment in order that
the amount for the street-lighting rate
may be reduced by 98 p.c. By my calcu-
lation my obligation for the year’s lighting
is thus 6.84 pence.
Yours faithfully.
The answer was, for Council, com-
mendably swift.
Dear Sir, —With reference to your
letter, in which you claim rebate for un-
used street-lighting. This has been placed
before Council, which has instructed me
to inform you that failure to make use
of the remaining 9hrs. 38min. of street-
lighting time cannot be allowed to
operate to the financial disadvantage of
Council.
If you are perturbed about not getting
your money’s worth why not read a book
under the street-lamp all night? Council
will raise no objections.
At the same time, Council takes the
opportunity of informing you that these
rates are assessable, and payable in
advance. How do you know you’ll only
use 12 minutes a night next September?
You might be dead, or the roads may be
so bad it will take you all night to get
home in your car, in which case you
would use up a whole lot more street-
lighting.
Your assessment, unamended, is en-
closed.
Yours faithfully,
A. Twerp,
Shire Clerk.
The Shire Clerk.
Sir, —In reply to yours regarding my
application for amendment of assessment
on the grounds that I use so little of
your street-lighting.
I tried Council’s suggestion. I find
that Council is so anxious to conserve the
ratepayer’s money in one direction, so
as to be able to sling it away in another,
that it limits the wattage of its street-
lamps to the extent that their effulgence
is eaten up by the circumambient dark-
ness when it reaches about half-way down
the pole.
As a consequence, before I had half-
finished my novel I was damn’ near blind.
I therefore had to seek specialist attention.
I enclose bill for this and for the new
glasses prescribed: total 11 guineas.
Undoubtedly Council is under a moral
obligation to reimburse me for this. Rate
assessment is again enclosed.
Yours faithfully.
Council was even swifter in reply to
that one.
Dear Sir, —Council has instructed me
to inform you that no responsibility can
be accepted for the alleged deterioration
in your sight. Surely you will agree that,
on the contrary, the exercise you would
have given your eyes by peering into the
barely discernible print of your book
must inevitably have led to a strengthen:-
ing of the optic muscles.
In any case, it is an invariable practice
of Council never to accept anything but
immoral obligations—and, of course,
cheques in full settlement of rate-notices.
However, Council has decided to meet
you halfway in the matter. It will there-
fore have no objection if, wishing to
obtain the maximum use of the street-
light closest to your' residence, you en-
deavor to get a little closer to the light
by standing on a few boxes placed one on
top of another. This is provided it does
not interfere with the passage of
pedestrians along the footpath.
Your rate-assessment, still unamended,
is again returned herewith.
Yours faithfully,
A. Twerp,
Shire Clerk.
Reserving the Tight to resume corres-
pondence on this point later, I switched
to the other contentious item.
The Shire Clerk.
Sir, —Adverting to correspondence re-
garding my assessment-notice (No.
32140), I note that I am assessed at
15s. 7d. on account of Special Improve-
ment Scheme.
This no doubt refers to the same area
on which a special rate has been struck
for the past 10 years.
I visited the area last week. The one
sapling which had been felled to make a
token start on the building of a playing-
area is still lying where it fell. In the
intervening decade termites have reduced
the few fence-posts (put up to stun the
mugs) to shells. Blackberries have taken
complete charge of the proposed playing-
area.
The blackberries, I concede, constitute
quite an improvement, as they now cover
all the rubbish that has been dumped
there.
In view of Council’s ideas of improve-
ment and beautification, I put to Council
a generous proposition. I have obtained
from my garden a choice collection which
includes sour-grass, Chilian-whitlow,
jo~jo, nut-grass, onion-weed, paspalum
dilitfltum, oxalis, Mullumbimby-couch,
Parramatta-grass, etc.
The total value of these —based on
man-hours spent in digging them out of
lawns and garden, plus the value of the
seeds themselves—l have assessed at
£2l 19s. Id. My assessment, which I
once again enclose, totals £lB 3s. lOd. I
shall therefore be pleased to receive in
full settlement a cheque for £3 15s. 3d.,
plus my fully-receipted assessment.
Yours faithfully.
I am still awaiting a reply.
BO.


BABCOCK
is
FULLY EQUIPPED
WITH FACILITIES AND EXPERIENCE
TO HANDLE ALL CONTRACTS
FOR STEAM-RAISING PLANT
Si
af
This hydraulic press for bending steel plates
up to 5" thick is one of the many items
of equipment recently installed at Regents
Park Works for the production of fusion-
welded boiler drums and pressure vessels.
The installed capacity of Babcock boilers has reached a
total of approximately 4,000,000 lb. of steam per hour.
This represents thousands of installations in central power
stations and industrial steam plants throughout the world,
providing economical steam generation with all types of
fuels of widely varying characteristics, from coal and oil to
bagasse and sunflower seeds. This wealth of experience
gained, plus intensive and continuous research work, is
embodied in ail Babcock boilers and auxiliary equipment.
Babcock has maintained its pre-eminence in the field of
steam engineering and is proud of being entrusted with the
manufacture and supply of the steam-raising plant for the
first atomic power station at Colder Hall in the U.K., which
is now under course of construction. Extensive and superbly
equipped works at Renfrew, Scotland, and Regents Park,
N.S.W., provide unrivalled facilities for the manufacture of
boiler units and all the additional equipment, such as coal
and ash handling plant, which is used in the modern boiler
house.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
\\\
*h..
m
frill* I*
VC&sS,~,&tT‘'' ■
wa&ik
eat
tds a *
Wk
>. • Z&fi+•
* t uyzXs&fi.
tH\S '*
~ ~o m e"T
a cfr e
an
a9 e
>*ne*
teco^
\V>e at^ €
"-*£ *e '" s r u e
n '°‘
; °" c ' es
fVi'S boS \oess \r» .
%o>°° m nOV( k. SJ,
« eCOt Aed ' b ® • c U ra^ ce m 000
®^ CC va\^ tn reW ot , aw 'i--i
the '°Rp.\s ve *•**
vSirtaJ"* _ .
*•
feet*-
b«t' 6
ty JH '
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PRUVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
General Manager: M. C. BUTTFIELD
PRINCIPAL BOARD: CECIL H. HOSKINS, Chairman;
WILLIAM A. MA.CKAY, Deputy-Chairman; Dr. S. A. SMITH,
S. G. ROWE, The Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.,
SAMUEL HORDERN, G. GORDON RUSSELL
Manager for N.S.W.: F. E. STAHL
Business, Rollery, Etc
The Trends of 1955
T AST week The Bulletin said
-L that it was possible that the
increase in marginal rates of pay
would promote greater incentive
and efficiency. If they did not,
then their weight would press
down on the rest of the economy
at an inopportune time.
Later in the same day
Treasurer Fadden supported
The Bulletin by saying that the
increases in margins were a
challenge to both management
and employees to increase
efficiency and production. That
was the only way in which they
could be absorbed without
increasing costs.
In short, as has been said
here, the present situation calls
for the greatest co-operation by
skilled and unskilled workers
and managements. Produc-
tivity needs to be increased to
match the increase in pay-
envelopes. To the extent that
higher margins raise costs of
production there will be that
much extra pressure under our
present comparative economic
stability, which has been partly
achieved by pegging the basic
wa 8 e -
We have entered upon a rather
awkward year. The margin-
increases, however justified, may
create trade - union problems
that will have to be faced firmly,
Higher margins, for instance, by
no means in themselves warrant
a higher basic wage; but some
militant unions assert that they
d °- is tha ‘ £ ° r
y ea . rs * e ™ „™r
ha m “ J v k 8
me SKlllea worKe .
The problems arising from
the marginal increase will take
some time to sort themselves out.
Meantime there is no doubt
about the challenge they repre-
sen* t° productivity and effici-
ency. The position of many or
°} ir export industries is already
difficult because of high costs,
an( f the situation will get worse
if costs increase,
The Minister for Customs,
Senator O’Sullivan, has warned
that further import-restrictions
may have to be imposed in view
of the drop in Australia’s Lon-
don funds; the central bank’s
holding of gold and balances
abroad had gone down to
£414.7 million on January 12.
A year earlier it had stood
at £517.3 million. As the
Minister said, “There is no need
for panic.” But he added: “We
are watching the balances care-
fully. Whether there will be
import-cuts depends on trends.”
He went on to say that,
though we had excellent selling-
prospects abroad, we were cost-
ing ourselves out of the world’s
markets. “In fact,” he added,
“we are costing ourselves out of
our own markets. There is a
limit to how much protection
we can give to our own manu-
facturers.” More work was
called for within the 40-hour
week.
On the internal credit posi-
tion, last week’s most important
utterance came from the
National Bank of Australasia.
It said that bank-advances in
the months ahead are certain to
remain severely restricted be-
cause of the decline in the banks’
liquid position. It expressed the
opinion that the immediate need
of strengthening the domestic
loan market depends, to a de-
gree, on an improvement in the
overseas accounts. The general
interest-rate structure, mean-
while, must conform with reali-
ties of the market and provide
strong incentives for savings.
The latter part of the statement
would seem to indicate that the
bank expects some interest-rates
to rise.
Wool prices have firmed a
little lately, and there is a feel-
ing that they have been lower
for the first half of the season
than they need have been. But
the wheat position is still not
good, and there is, for the pre-
sent, at any rate, a noticeable
lack of strength in our export
situation. The effect of this on
our import position, our London
funds and the internal credit
position has already been noted.
In the circumstances it is easy
to understand the present quiet-
ness in the sharemarket. Open-
market interest-rates are rising,
and money for investment is
getting tighter. Although the
greater part of industry remains
very busy and presumably
making profits on at least last
year’s scale, there is not the zest
in investment that exists at a
time when capital funds are
available in abundance. These
facts must be noted by any pru-
dent investor approaching the
sharemarket at present. Any
buying should be done on the
understanding that it may be
necessary to hold for some
months if a capital-gain is
counted on.
Looking at the picture as a
whole, the remark of Senator
O’Sullivan covers it pretty well
—more work is required within
the 40-hour week. This country
at the moment has an immense
amount of work to do if it is to
go forward at its proper pace;
and work can only be achieved
by working. Other countries aire
beating us in output per man-
hour in almost every industry
except wool and crude steel, and
we cannot insulate ourselves
from the effects of their greater
competitive ability. We shall be
unable even to borrow overseas
unless we improve our costs
position ; and, as a youfig
country, we will badly need all
the imported capital goods we
can get in order to develop our
resources. We can only get them
by having funds overseas to pay
for them.
Another “Duster”
“P. Mobile”: After what
must have been, to those who
believed in Roma oil-prospects,
the disappointing test on
Associated Australian Oilfields’
No. 4 well in July last (B.
28/7/’54), the punching of yet
another hole into Queensland’s
much-perforated Hospital Hill
could be justified only by a
belief that an additional bore
would, at least, duplicate the
gas-produqtion of AAO4.
The new location was placed
half a mile north-west of AAO4
and —according to the interpreta-
tion of its seismic survey by the
Bureau of Mineral Resources —
the 3700 ft. gas-sand of that well
should be encountered at 3775 ft.
in AAOS. It is evident, how-
ever, that drilling results raised
doubts as to the accuracy of the
forecast, as coring was com-
menced at 3615 ft. on November
29, 1954, and, after a consider-
able interval —on January 15 of
this year, to be exact —the
following announcement
appeared in the press:
The gas-sand found in No. 4 well
was again encountered in No. 5 well
from 3700 to 3740 ft. The sand did
not flow on test.
The explanation that this lack
“ Don't just stand there looking as though butter
Wouldn't melt in your mouth!"
0 f f[ ow was due to “mud-
infiltration” is improbable. It is
far more likely that the lack of
gas is merely another illustration
of the lenticular and faulted
nature of the strata under Roma
which have produced, in the past,
sporadic and sometimes spec-
tacular shows of oil and gas,
and that the absence of drop in
the sand to the north-west is
another indication of the
unreliability of the bureau’s
seismic work.
Bedrock, according to the
press report, had not been
reached at 3945 ft., but it was
stated that drilling would be
continued until the basement
complex was penetrated,
No suggestion has been put
forward, as yet, that an AAO6
and an AAO7 will be sunk, as
originally planned, “to prove a
reserve of gas sufficient for
industrial purposes.” It may be
that the sound advice to abandon
the search for oil in the Roma
district has, at long last, been
accepted.


CRQNULLA (By the Sea)
THE “WESTELLA”
perfect holiday accom. for 80 Guests. All
Rms. H. & O. and Inner-sprung Mattresses
LICENSED DINING ROOM. Golf, Bowls,
Ballroom. Very near Surf and Electric
Trains. FISHING PARTIES AND PLEA-
SURE TRIPS IN OUR OWN LUXURY
CRUISER. IDEAL FOR HONEYMOONS.
Write for free and post free
Illustrated Booklet.
KINGSWAY, CRONULLA,
LB 5922.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find ' enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £l/16/
/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
* The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £3 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 765 Wellington, N.Z.)
V,
/
*3=3*?*?;
Trwtjsr-
mr
Higher than man had flown before
One day, in 1932, Captain Cyril
Uwins flew higher than any man had
flown before. By reaching a height of
43,976 ft. in a Vickers Vespa biplane,
fitted with a Bristol Pegasus engine,
he brought the world’s aeroplane
altitude record to Britain for the
first time.
The special fuel used on the flight
was developed and prepared at
BP’s Research Station, Sunbury.
Since then BP Aviation Service has
come a long way. Today, geared to
keep pace with future developments
and demands, it is ready at all times
to provide aviation fuels speedily and
efficiently.
AVIATION
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of The British Petroleum j/ S4
Company, Ltd .
Output of Refrigerators
Up to ten weeks ago, the
period for which the latest pro-
duction-figures are available,
output of refrigerators continued
to expand. In October the out-
put of domestic units was 33,100
for the month —an all-time high.
Usually November and Decem-
ber are the months of highest
output, but these figures are not
yet ready.
Until September 30 at least
full hire - purchase arrange-
ments were available on house-
hold and personal goods, so
that there should have been no
impediment of a credit nature to
the production and sale of
refrigerators. Recently there
has been a tightening-up by the
banks on the amount of credit
they are prepared to extend to
consumer-credit concerns, which
have reacted to the restriction
plan by going direct to the public
for funds. It is probable that
in the final quarter of the year
those people who wanted to get
credit facilities for buying
refrigerators had no difficulty in
finding them.
It appears now that, with the
Christmas season over, some
refrigerator-manufacturers are
finding sales more difficult, and
are offering a variety of induce-
ments to attract customers.
Usually it centres round the
trade-in allowance for an old
fridge or ice-chest. Sometimes
the old article >»is accepted as full
. deposit on the new one.
A falling-off in sales after
Christmas is a seasonal occur-
rence, and the hard sales-drive
now may be nothing more than
an attempt to defy previous
averages and statistics. On the
other hand, it may indicate an
extension of a trend evident in
other sections of the electrical
trade for some time —keener
competition and under-the-lap
price-cutting.
Most refrigerators sold in
Australia are made here. Some
of them are made under licence
from well-known overseas
manufacturers. There are at
least 65 different brands, but
only a small number of firms
make a complete refrigerator ;
the majority are engaged in
making the cabinet and assembl-
ing components bought from
sub-contractors. For example,
Wilcolator (Aust.), Ltd., makes
thermostatic controls for the
industry, and Kirby’s makes
sealed units.
Output of refrigerators during
1953-54, according to the Divi-
sion of Industrial Development,
amounted to 276,557 units, a big
lift on the previous year’s figure,
and 36 p.c. up on the record
output of 1950-51. For the first
six months of 1954-55 compara-
tive figures of the previous year
have been left behind. Because
of improvements in mechanisa-
tion, annual capacity of the
industry now exceeds 300,000
units.
A difficulty in the industry
has been to maintain all-year-
round demand. In the winter
months sales fall away, and if
the manufacturing staff is kept
fully employed stocks accumu-
late. A cut in sales-tax from
12i p.c. to 10 p.c. in the last
Budget assisted in reducing
prices, and may have been a
factor in the stimulated demand
during the final quarter of 1954.
Those in the trade fear a
reduction in the potential
market. Emphasis has shifted
from cheaper models, and there
is reported to be an increased
market for better-quality and
larger-sized refrigerators with
new devices to attract customers.
Most of these new models have
been priced higher than those
which they replaced.
A manufacturing difficulty
has been the shortage of Aus-
tralian steel sheet, which has
meant that about 50 p.c. of
requirements has had to be
ordered from abroad.
One of the biggest manufac-
turers in the industry is Email.
Another is President. General
Motors also have a large output
in Victoria, and Kelvinator in
South Australia.
Australian Woollen Mills
The first accounts published by
Australian Woollen Mills, Ltd.,
since converting to a public
company, disclose a profit, after
providing for depreciation and
taxation, of £317,636. The figure
includes the earnings of the new
subsidiary, Stamina Clothing
Pty., Ltd., and it compares with
an average £285,576 profit
claimed (for the years 1949-54)
by the co. in the prospectus to
the public issue.
During the year the co. issued
208,000 8 p.c. £1 cum. prefs.
and 195,000 £1 ords. to acquire
the issued capital of Stamina
Clothing Company, and a
further 200,000 ord. shares at a
premium of 10s. a share to
achieve the status of a
public co. Of the new capital,
only the subsidiary participated
in last year’s distribution: share-
holders received dividends, at
the rate of 8 p.c. (prefs.), and
10 p.c. (ords.), for the final
quarter of the term. To cover
the pref. charges and maintain
10 p.c. on the enlarged ordinary
capital, £142,240, or £47,105
more, will be required this year
for distribution than in 1954.
But last year’s earnings, after
allowing for a full year’s pref.
requirements, were equal to 24
p.c. on the £1,256,000 of ord.
capital, and the ord. div.-cover
is remarkably high for a
woollen-mill.
Trading conditions during the
year were “satisfactory and con-
tinuous,” although keen. The
co. maintained a “steady flow”
of production and sales of its
Crusader and Stamina products,
and, according to the chairman,
similar conditions can be
expected over the current term.
Additional plant at Unan-
derra, installed during the year,
is expected to be in production
this month. The co. has kept its
plant up to date, where possible
converting to or replacing with
automatic machines. Capitalisa-
tion and fixed-asset valuation
of the whole undertaking
are low by comparison with the
other “big ones” in the trade,
and stocks appear to be in at a
conservative figure—very im-
portant in these days of uncertain
wool-prices.
At the present market price
of about 345. the £1 ords. yield
5.9 p.c. Net tangible backing for
the ords. is 375. 9d.
Whale Industries, Ltd.
Within its restricted operations,
and in less than four years,
Whale Industries has achieved
an unusually strong financial
position.
On last season’s catch, reduced
under Government quota to 600
whales (from 700 in 1953), sales
of whale products were approxi-
mately £20,000 better, to yield
over £640,000. After providing
£39,600 (up £3600 on 1953)
taxation, adjusted for previous
years’ excess provision, and
£50,000 (unchanged) deprecia-
tion, net profit rose £47,083 to
£152,805.
On paid capital of £535,000
last year’s profit was equal to
28.6 p.c., compared with 19.8
p.c. 1953, and 13 p.c. 1952. Over
this period net earnings have
averaged 20.4 p.c. on paid .capi-
tal, and distributions to share-
holders 10 p.c. Raised four
points to 14 p.c., the 1954 divi-
dend requires slightly less than
half of the net profit.
The co.’s activities centre on
Moreton Island, off the Queens-
land coast, and close to the
winter migratory route of the
humpback whale. Through the
working subsidiary, Whale Pro-
ducts Pty., the catch is pro-
cessed for oil and meat- and
bone-meal. The meal products
are sold through another sub-
sidiary, the Protein Pty., mainly
to local stock-food manufac-
turers. Chief markets for the
oil, used in the manufacture of
margarine, are the U.K. and the
Continent, where the co. has
to compete with other whale-oil
producers. Recent indications
are that the price of oil during
the coming season will be at
least as much as last year.
Designed to ensure that
coastal waters are not over-
fished, the quota-restrictions set
obvious limits to the growth of
the co. Before allowing for
depreciation, new investment in
working assets last year
amounted only to £18,890,
representing additions to meal-
processing machinery and dupli-
cation of steam-raising plant. At
the same time, the co. increased
its cash holdings by £183,675 to
£263,960. The total liquid
surplus of assets over current
liabilities is now £147,717. When
a means is found to employ this
large cash surplus it could
provide a most useful supple-
ment to earnings.
The market prices the ss. stock
at 75., to yield 10 p.c. on the
14 p.c. dividend.
Tariffs and Industry
Protectionist ideas have been
freely aired in N.Z. manufactur-
ing circles in recent months.
If the majority of manufacturers
had their way, the local market
would be a dose monopoly,
whatever the price, and import
trade would be confined to goods
they can’t supply.
The attitude, as ventilated by
textile- and garment-makers,
who wield a lot of power and
influence, v is that local industry
is entitled to a highly privileged
place, and, to go one better,
they demand complete freedom
to determine prices as well. A
selfish view, but a fairly
common one. Demands like this
harden public opinion against
relaxing price-control or other
controls, yet freedom would be
best for everyone.
Some time ago the Price
Tribunal laid it down that prices
should be fixed wherever there
were shortages, monopolies, or
subsidies to interfere with the law
of supply and demand. The
textile trades have had more
than their share of monopoly,
under the shelter of import-
licensing and exchange-control,
for nearly 16 years.
Now, textile-manufacturers
have been asking for higher
tariffs. Imports will be freer this
year, when the banks manage the
exchange again, but there’s no
reason to expect another big buy-
ing spree. It will be better all-
round if the door is opened wide
enough for overseas competitors
to have a real influence on costs
and prices, for there’s no other
way to put workers and manage-
ments on their mettle.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Companv
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
m
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way [Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
[Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bend. J. R. Faviell.
F. B. Fleming. G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Secretary : P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart.
Chief Trust Officer: M. A. Foulcher
Piennanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.75.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The T. & G. Mutual Life
HTHE big mutual and other life offices,
which have become one of the
greatest single channels of personal saving
in the economy, report record figures for
1954, and enter 1955 with business still
flourishing.
Foremost among the reasons for
the continued popularity of assurance
as a means of personal saving is the fact
that it creates an immediate estate long
before it is ever paid for, thus providing
full contractual protection for dependants
in case of premature death of the assured
—a protection which no other form of
investment gives. Other important factors
contributing to the growth of the figures
have been rapid expansion of population,
inflation—which has increased most
people’s nominal income and the need for
greater life-cover —the striking post-war
development of group assurance as a
means of industrial superannuation, and
the life-cover associated with home-pur-
chase financed by the cos. on mortgage.
Latest accounts of the T. and G. also
disclose a heartening growth in the sur-
plus available for distribution among
policyholders—there are no shareholders
■ —and an increase in the rate of bonuses
paid, while continued improvement in the
net rate of interest earned and further
reduction in the expense rate, and other
things, augur well for the future.
For the year to September 30 last
£42,585,459 (up £2,662,661) of new busi-
ness was put on the books in the two
life departments combined —ordinary
£34, 296,412 (up £3,187,941) and industrial
£8,289,047 (down £525,280). The aver-
age amount per ordinary policy was
£707.8 as against £647.4 in 1953.
Total income, exes., claims and assur-
ance funds in each department have
moved in this way:
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’62 9,396,613 1,532,609 2,846,042 5,017,962 53,104,472
To staff fund, £9600 .. .. 53,094,872
's3
10,450,853 1,647,431 3;T17,363 5,686,059 58,780,931
To staff fund, £9900 58,771,031
’5i-
11,660,567 1,776,912 3,523,070 6,360,585 65,131,616
To staff funds, £11,325 .. .. 65,142,941
Industrial Life Department.
Adder! to Assurance
Bept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
*52 4,994,813 1,601,622 2,689,619 70b,072 26,83;>,01 7
To staff fund, £5250 .. ..26,833,767
’6B 5,108,037 1,628,627 2,894,632 684,778 27,418,545
To staff fund. £4950 .. .27,413,595
’54 5,238,109 1,619,355 3,007,020 611,734 28,025,329
To staff fund, £Bl5O 28,033,479
The year’s total income (combined figures)
was £16,898,676 (up £1,339,786), of
which £13,413,712 (up £941,700) was pre-
miums and £3,484,964 (up £398,086) in-
terest, rents, etc. In each section claims
were well within the amount allowed for
by the actuary, which means that there was
a profit on the mortality experience also.
The amounts available for distribution
(excess of assurance funds over liabilities
under policies) increased by £294,182 in
the O.D. and.£12,813 in the 1.D.:
Net surplus—- 1952. 1953. 1954.
Ordinary .. . . £1,037,492 £1,274,410 £1,568,592
Industrial .. .. 402,550 319,279 332,092
Total .. .. £1,440,042 £1,593,689 £1,900,684
Of last year’s surplus the amount distri-
buted in reversionary bonuses was
£1,497,159 in the O.D. and £288,397 in
the I.D. The already very satisfactory rates
of bonus in the O.D. were again slightly
increased ; in the I.D. they were main-
tained at the previous year’s level. Un-
like dividends, which are often spent after
they are paid, these reversionary bonuses
are normally retained and reinvested for
the ultimate benefit of the policyholder,
gathering size as time goes on.
Chief factor responsible for the im-
provement in last year’s surplus and bonus
rates in the O.D. was an increase of
3s. 6d. p.c. in the net rate of interest
earned (£3 19s. 3d. p.c.) on the mean
assurance fund, thus further widening the
margin over the stringent rate of 2\ p.c.,
at which the actuary calculates liabilities
under policies. A slight improvement in
the expense rate and the favorable mor-
tality experience helped, too. Excluding
taxes and contributions to the staff fund,
exes, took 17.2 p.c. of net premiums as
against 17.8 p.c. in 1953. Corresponding
ratios in the I.D. were 35.7 p.c. and 36.7
p.c. respectively.
The aspect of the business to which the
directors devote the greater part of their
time and thought is the investment policy,
and the success achieved is a major factor
in the rate of interest earned, which in
turn is a powerful ingredient of the rate
of bonus paid to policyholders:
Public 1953. p.c. 1954. p.c.
securities ..£63,557,650 71.0 £66,957,043 69.1
Loans .. .. 18,591,534 20.8 22.1
Co. debentures. 2,490,876 2.8 3,629,821 3.7
Freeholds, etc. 3,985,300 4.4 4,092,000 4.1
Cash, book debts,
etc 853,309 1.0 942,048 1.0
Of the funds that became available for
investment last term £3,399,393 was
channelled into public securities,
£2,812,206 into loans (mostly mortgages)
and £1,138,945 into debentures in public
companies.
British Standard Machinery Co., Ltd.
THE outlook for this and other big
local manufacturers of earthmoving,
roadmaking and road-maintenance and
materials-handling equipment, etc.,
changed a couple of years ago, and the
path ahead promises to be more diffi-
cult than the one travelled during the
half-dozen years to mid-1952. During
this period an inflated programme of
national and other works kept the co.’s
order-book ahead of its expanding plant-
production. The ord. div., steady at 8
p.c. for the 11 years to 1948, was lifted
to 9 p.c. in 1949 and to 10 p.c. for the
three years to 1952. Also the 10 p.c. was
sweetened with a one-for-one issue of
bonus-scrip (£170,000) in November,
1950. At the same time 180,000 new £1
ords. were issued at par, and early in
1952 a further 260,000 new ords. were
put out at a premium of ss. each. Paid
capital thus rose to £860,000 in 30,000
7 p.c. and 50,000 5 p.c. cum. prefs. and
780,000 ords.
Then the construction and other acti-
vities of public and private bodies were
curtailed, being brought more into line
with open-market borrowing possibilities,
while some Government departments,
which had inescapable commitments
overseas, entered the disposals field. For
local producers, whose aggregate plant-
capacity was, and still is, more than able
to take care of the new level of demand,
it all meant sharp falls in output and
sales, excessive stocks, cuts in selling-
prices and severe contraction in net
earnings.
B.S.M.’s declared profit tumbled from
a peak of £103,428 in 1952 to £10,282 in
1953. Actually the 1953 profit was £20,506
because £10,224 had been overprovided
for taxation, as is shown in the following
table:
t Dividends >,
Ist Pref. 2nd Pref. Ords. Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. 5 p.c. 10 p.c. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1950.. 70,68 k 2,100 2,500 17,000 151,218
Revaluation assets, £170,000 .. 321,218
Reserves capitalised, £170,000 .. 151,218
Share-issue exes., £996 .. 150,222
1951.. 101,601 2,100 2,500 34,500 212,723
Share premiums, £65,000 .. .. 277,723
Share-issue expenses, £2600 .. .. 275,123
1952.. 103,428 2,100 2,500 62,400 311,551
To stock reserve, £lOO,OOO .. 211,551
1953.. 10,282 2,100 2,500 Nil 217,233
Tax overprovided, £ 10,224 ... . . 227,457
To stock depreciation reserve, £50,000 177,457
Loss.
1954.. 8,866 2,100 2,500 Nil 163,991
Although demand strengthened a little
last term, the co. got no benefit on the
manufacturing side, because of the stock
position, and overhead, always a trouble-
some item where heavy-plant cannot be
kept adequately employed, pressed heavily
upon the attenuated takings. The net
result was a loss of £8866, and for the
second year in succession the ords. were
passed by. Reserves were drawn upon for
£4600 to pay the pref. divs. and for
£50,000 in order to protect further the
book-value of stocks against the possi-
bility of continued shrinkage in selling-
prices—£loo,ooo was transferred from
reserves for the same purpose in 1952.
Meanwhile the board has vigorously
followed the only sound policy open to it
to get the co. back on to its profit-earning
feet, namely, curtailment of production
(except for certain lines still in demand)
and reduction of the heavy load of both
stocks and outside debt. In these respects
there are good grounds for hope that the
worst of the co.’s troubles have been over-
come. The chairman puts it this way:
Having now in the main achieved the
objective of the policy which has been
followed, the directors propose adopting at
the earliest suitable date a policy designed
to as quickly as possible restore the co. to
a profitable trading position. Whilst it is
anticipated that trading results will improve,
it cannot be expected that the desired level
of profits will be rapidly achieved.
The co. handles Cletrac and Oliver
tractors and makes (at its Alexandria
works near Sydney) ’dozers, graders,
rooters and a lot of other tractor-drawn
equipment, as well as concrete-mixers,
Coventry fork-trucks and a wide range
of the heavy-engineering products. To
this list has been added, or is about to
be added, production of trailers and low-
loaders, etc., as well as bitumen-distribu-
tors and street-sweepers to be made
under licence, and manufacture of parts
of the heavy-duty road-graders, rollers
and dumpers of the Aveling-Bradford
Co. (U.K.).
One difficulty associated with extra
production will be provision of more
working capital:
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £BO,OOO £BO,OOO £BO,OOO
Ord 780,000 780,000 780,000
Reserves .. .. 211,551 217,233 163,991
Overdraft .. 883,885 685,299 480,108
Creditors . . .. 364,672 155,068 60,866
Tax provision .. 171,632 10,224
Final div. .. 38,700 2,300 2,300
Total .. .. £2,530,440 £1,930,124 £1,567,265
Freeholds .. 252,534 260,049 • 260,428
Office
equipment .. 22,589 19,823 14,151
Plant, etc. .. 245,369 229,964 203,958
Shares subsid. .. 55,000 55,000 55,000
Stocks . . .. 1,540,637 1,254,661 900,836
Book debts, etc. .. 413,809 110,228 132,520
Gash, etc. .. 502 399 372
Total .. .. £2,530,440 £1,930,124 £1,567,265
Last term book-debts increased by
£22,292, the book-value of stocks was
reduced by £353,825 —£50,000 of it on
account of the transfer from reserves
already referred tn —and £205,191 was
clipped off the overdraft and £94,202 off
the amount coming to sundry creditors.
When the books closed there was 10s. 7d.
belonging to the bank and sundry credi-
tors in the business for every £ of share-
holders’ funds, compared with 15s. 7d. at
the previous balance and 21s. 4d. a year
before that. The financial position has
been thus greatly improved.
At 13s. 4d. (16s. a year ago) the f.-p.
£1 ords. would return 7.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis. The 5 p.c. prefs. at 18s. yield
5.5 p.c. The 7 per cents, seldom appear on
the market. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £34 2s. Bd. 7 per cents.,
£l9 17s. 7d. 5 per cents, and 24s 2d.
ords.
R. Fowler, Ltd.
'T'HOSE on the ord.-register at Decem-
ber 17 last received one bonus-share
f.-p. to Bs. for each 12s. share then held.
At the same time the pref. div. was
restored to a fixed cumulative 10 p.c.
again. It had been reduced from 10 p.c.
to 7 p.c., with the right to advance with
the ord. from the lower to ’ the higher
rate, in 1934, when Bs. had been lopped
off each £1 ord. share in order to get the
capital account more into line with the
then reduced earning-power of the busi-
ness. Since then the board has followed a
cautious financial policy, making liberal
allowances for depreciation, etc., thereby
enabling much of the subsequent growth
of the undertaking to be paid for out of
earnings. For these and other reasons
there is nothing to suggest that the recent
restoration of share-capital, etc., is a
premature gesture.
The gift-scrip called for £lOO,OOO,
which came from a capital reserve of
£275,000 created by writing up the book-
value of freeholds following independent
revaluation in 1951, when £130,000 excess
provision for depreciation was also tossed
into free reserves—the excess was after
allowing for replacement cost at then
current values.
Including the bonus scrip, paid
capital now stands at £290,000 in
40,000 £1 10 p.c. prefs. and 250,000 £1
ords.—the 12s. and Bs. shares have been
amalgamated into £1 units —and reserves
at £439,254. -An all-round 10 p.c. div.,
the rate paid for the last four years,
would call for £3805 less than the record
£32,805 of profit earned last term, and
trade has held well since the close of
accounts. Still, it is by no means certain
that a steady 10 p.c. need be looked for
on the enlarged capital. Buyers recently
offered 265. for the ords. without attract-
ing sellers. At 265. the immediate return
would be 6.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div., which
would be worth 13| p.c. on ord. capital
as it stood before the gift. The prefs. at
31s. 6d. yield 6.3 p.c. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is £lB 4s. 7d. prefs.
and 555. Id. ords.
The co.’s principal works, at Marrick-
ville (N.S.W.), turn out drainage- and
sewerage-pipes, sanitary- and other
earthenware, as well as floor-tiles and
insulators, etc. The factories at Mel-
bourne, Brisbane and Adelaide —the latter
has only just got fully into its stride—
concentrate mainly on sanitaryware and
household crockery. Another offshoot,
R. Fowler Vianini, Ltd., has been making
concrete pipes at Marrickville since the
1920’5. Competition in the industry is
keen, and profit-margins mostly narrow.
Increased activity in both the building
trade and sewerage extensions by public
authorities bumped up turnover last
term. After allowing £26,530 (up £576)
for depreciation and something for taxa-
tion, etc., net earnings increased by
£10,270:
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept. Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
30, £ £,£,£,
1950.. 22,050 3200 8 p.c. = 12,000 6850 107,236
Proceeds, revalued assets, £275,446 .. 382,682
Excess depreciation prov’n, £130,000. . 512,682
10 p.c.
1951.. 28,473 4000 10 p.c. = 15,000 9473 522,155
To tax reserves £8590 .. .. .. 613,565
Added reserves, £976 ?. .. .. 514,541
1952.. 21,749 4000 10 p.c. = 15,000 2749 517,290
Profit sale assets, £4630 .. .. 521,920
1953.. 22,529 4000 10 p.c. = 15,000 3529 525,449
1954.. 32,805 4000 10 „ „ 15,000 13,805 539,254
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. .. 439,254
The £32,805 of profit was equal to 11.3
p.c. on capital as it now stands (pref. and
ord. combined), or a moderate 4.5 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined). Additional burning-capacity
at the Marrickville pottery should soon
become available.
Finances are comfortable:
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref. .. .. .. £40,000 £40,000 £40,000
Ord 150,000 150,000 150,000
Reserves . . . . 517,290 525,449 539,254
Overdraft .. .. 18,823
Creditors, tax .. . . 93,511 88,864 107,303
Due to subsid. . . 46,049 62,707 49,738
Final div 11,400 11,400 9,500
Total .'. .. £885,746 £897,243 £895,795
Freehold .. . . 369,609 368,150 371,240
Plant 153,011 144,483 135,278
Shares subsid. . . 60,658 60,658 60,658
Advances to subsid. . . 69,127 61,328 64,125
Stocks 139,837 132,037 126,767
Debtors 93,115 110,337 127,034
Cash, etc 389 20,250 10,693
Total .. .. £885,746 £897,243 £895,795
To carry an extra £16,697 of book-debts
and wipe out the overdraft (£18,823 at
the previous balance) the co. added
£18,439 to the amount coming to sundry


established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Oiy
OSUMJVA^
BRw
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
mb
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Kapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
, WEARS A
1 NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
barrere distribution CO.
(Dept. 3g), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
JUBILEE >
CJ!
CO
cn
cjn
SERVICE M
AUSTRAL!
ijfiIRRPOUTAN
WK
RANCE
'*<■ IN (TIAND U„_
SPEC/AL/S/N& M OP L/FE AMD
ACC/DENT /MSMBANCE -
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BW 8061.
Now Open!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
4i%
LOAN
Every investor in this £1,250,000 Loan has the option of securing 4f% for
either' 10 or 20 years.
The New South Wales Government unconditionally guarantees both principal
and interest. Half-yearly interest is payable free of exchange, in terms of the
Prospectus, and may be credited to your bank account.
Recognised as the Premier N.S.W. Security, the Board’s Loans are Authorised
Trustee Investments in New South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia
and Tasmania.
How to Apply Today
Prospectuses and application forms are available
• at all branches of the Commonwealth Trading Bank;
® from your Stockbroker;
• at the Sydney Water Board office.
Issued at par, Loan No. 129 is underwritten by lan Potter & Co., and will close
not later than 9th February, 1955.
creditors, etc. —the etcetera is an
unspecified provision for taxa-
tion. The improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus
(£162,078) was £19,920.
Uranium in Queensland
The history of mining, in Aus-
tralia and elsewhere, shows that
only a small percentage of
mineral prospects become profit-
able mining ventures, and
uranium is no exception. In
mining as a whole there are
many phases, of which prospect-
ing is an initial one. The making
of a mine out of a prospect calls
for a lot of highly skilled work
and the expenditure of a lot of
money on diamond-drilling,
shaft-sinking, driving and other
testing and developmental work.
And, in the case of a successful
undertaking, it is usually a long
time before the co. formed to
develop and work the venture
wins an adequate return on its
share capital.
These are some of the
conclusions to be drawn
from a recent statement by
Queensland’s Minister of Mines,
Mr. McCathie, concerning the
hunt for uranium - bearing
deposits in the Northern State.
Following a discovery in
March, 1954, prospectors began
to rush to the Mt. Isa-Cloncurry
field, where the search has
spread over an area of about
22,000 square miles. By Sep-
tember last some 500 lease-
applications had been lodged,
and 430 applications covering
14,000 acr&s were then still in
force. In mfny cases early esti-
mates of the quality and
quantity of ore available proved
unduly optimistic, and the
casualties, as well as lame and
halt, in the race have steadily
grown in number. Work on this
field is now being concentrated
mainly on the relatively few
deposits with potentially signifi-
cant reserves of commercial-
grade ore.
Concerning other possible
uranium-bearing areas in the
State the Minister has pointed
out that, thus far, radioactivity in
the discovery at Tanginnie, near
Gladstone, was confined to one
vein; prospects in the Her-
berton-Irvinebank-Petford area
are no longer considered promis-
ing ; at Ravenswood weak radio-
activity has led to prospecting
on a small scale ; the possibilities
of finding payable uranium-
bearing ore around Perry are
considered remote; and the low-
order of radioactivity reported
from an unidentified mineral at
Westwood is not considered to
be of commercial importance.
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L.
"pOR the year to October 31,
A 1954, the co., whose mine is
at Norseman (W.A.), netted
£47,098 (down £14,951), or
25.1 p.c. on its £187,500 of
capital, compared with 33.1 p.c.
and 27.1 p.c. for the two preced-
ing years. The' div. was kept at
20 p.c. (£37,500), of which
6f p.c. was tax-free. The profit
was arrived at after writing off
£61,858 (down £120,390) for
developrhent, etc., and allowing
£28,545 (down £16,546) for
depreciation and £16,000 (nil
previous term) for taxation.
The slip in profit was due
mainly to a cut of 3d. per unit,
or 255. a ton, in the selling-price
of the sulphur content of the
pyritic concentrates, which
followed increased imports of
brimstone by acid-manufacturers.
The co. was thus deprived of
some of the gains which followed
completion of the new shaft
(down 1033 ft.) on the Iron King
lease and improvements to the
plant. Mining and treatment
costs, etc., were .reduced by
3s. s|d. to 625. 6d. per ton. The
mill handled 104,357 tons (up
2771 tons) ore for concentrates
containing 24,998 tons (down
1429 tons) sulphur, which realised
an average of £19.5 per ton as
against £24.4 for the previous
year.
However, the new bounty on
sulphuric acid manufactured
from indigenous materials is
expected to strengthen demand
for the concentrates, and further
reduction of treatment costs is
anticipated when the new heavy-
media separation-plant comes
into operation in March next.
Ore reserves at October 31 last
were put at 3,802,000 tons, of
which 1,587,000 tons was proved
and 2,215,000 tons probable.
The lot is estimated to assay not
less than 25 p.c. sulphur.
Current exploration work on
the co.’s near-by goldmine, the
Norseman, has not yet disclosed
anything of importance. Produc-
tion at the Norseman ceased in
1947, when the grade fell to
2.6dwt. per ton.
The co.’s holding of 200,000
f.-p. 10 s. shares in Western
Uranium Mines, N.L., which is
testing a uranium prospect at
Lake Dundas (W.A.), has not
been assigned any value in the
books.
At October 31 last there were
current assets totalling £137,594
to meet current liabilities of
£76,809.
The f.-p. ss. shares at 13s. 6d.
give an immediate return of
7.4 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis.
Kalgoorlie Goldfields
Petroleum, N.L.—a Sydney
(N.S.W.) float which came on to
the market in September last
with 2,000,000 ss. contribs.,
underwritten by stockbroker R.
Walton at 3d. a share (£25,000)
and payable Is. a share on
application and allotment and
the balance as required—has just
announced that it expects to
commence drilling for oil about
four months hence. It took over
oil-exploration permits, covering
two areas in Westralia -at the
head of the Great Australian
Bight, from Goldfields
Petroleum Discovery Syndicate
for £50,000 in f.-p. shares. The
directors say that structures have
been located on each area which
geologically are suitable for
accumulation of petroleum or
natural gas in traps or reservoirs.
What is reckoned to be the most
promising one is about 231 miles
east of Norseman and 130 miles
from Rawlinna, on the east-west
railway.
* * * *
London-controlled Sons of
Gwalia, operating at Leonora
(W.A.), is considering the best
way of raising additional capital
to modernise the mine and treat-
ment-plant, and to provide the
staff amenities needed to ensure
a contented and stable labor
force. Bewick, Moreing and
Co., general-managers for Gwalia
in Australia, have recommended
that £269,876 be spent on mine
equipment (£47,300), mine-de-
velopment (£81,853), treatment-
plant (£88,223), surface plant
(£12,500), and housing and
amenities (£40,000). The Wes-
tralian Government has offered
to advance £lOO,OOO as a secured
loan if the co. increases its
capital from other sources by
£170,000. Paid capital now
stands at £162,500 in f.-p. 10s.
shares, priced on the Australian
market around Bs. each. In
1953 the co. recorded a working
loss of £6106 as against a profit
of £13,855 for the previous year.
Last div. paid was 20 p.c. in
1950.


Women's Letters
MELBDURNE
An outstanding feature of the 1955
knitwear parade in Paton & Baldwin’s
showroom was the nautical trend seen
in loose-fitting sweaters with high polo-
necklines, and in a double-breasted reefer-
jacket trimmed with a contrasting color
on the edge of the collar, sleeves and
pockets. Eight nautical brass buttons
were an impressive finishing-touch. Also
in the seafaring trend was a jacket suit-
able for wear with shorts or slacks on a
cool day. It was knitted in white wool,
the waist, sleeves and sailor-collar
trimmed with navy-blue.
Casual, chunky hand-knits will again
be popular. Even the more dressy styles
in fine wool, or in combinations of wool
with nylon, feature a loose line, often
emphasised by a softer shoulder-line —
no padding is used. In some cases, the
shoulder-seam is dropped to the upper
arm, and dolman-, Magyar- and raglan-
sleeves continue in popularity.
This season the “tweedy” look has
been introduced into knitwear by the use
of a yam which has a knop surface.
Another version of the tweedy look is
given by a heavier wool, also flecked but
with a smooth surface. A very smart
effect, rather like a bird’s-eye tweed, was
shown in a jacket knitted in fine crepe-
wool in two contrasting shades.
A new range of warm, flattering colors
will brighten the winter landscape of
fashion. There is gerbera, a clear pinky-
orange, forest-green, soft-brown, king-
fisher-blue, amber, and jade from which
to choose for a new sweater or jacket.
# #
At the marriage of Rosemary Yer-
burgh-Bonsey and Roy Ernest Ricker in
St. John’s, Toorak, the service was fully
choral. The bride, who is the daughter
of the late Mr. R. H. Yerburgh-Bonsey,
formerly of Sussex (Eng.), and Mrs. J. P.
Woodhouse, of Toorak, wore a bouffant
gown of white nylon organza, the fitted
bodice of which was trimmed with
French lace to form the tiny sleeves. Her
fingertip veil was held in place with a
wreath of stephanotis, and similar
flowers were arranged with gardenias to
form the bouquet.
Rosemary was given away by her
stepfather, Lieut.-Col. J< P. Woodhouse.
Lysia Robertson, Valerie Dunstan and
the bride’s stepsister, Robyn Wood-
house, were the ’maids. The two elder
girls wore short frocks of ice-blue
chiffon, and the half-circlet of stepha-
notis worn at the back of their hair
matched the posies they carried. Ten-
year-old Robyn had a pale-blue sash
at the waist of her long white organdie
dress and a wreath of blue delphiniums
in her hair. The ’groom is the only son
of Mr. and Mrs. E. M. Ricker, of Toorak.
Reception \yas at Menzies’.
☆ ☆ ☆
Newly decorated in soft blues and
dusty pinks, the Melba Room at the
Metropole -Hotel was formally opened
by Cr. Douglas Cox. In addition, there
are two lounges, specially decorated, and
named the Monash and the Austral. A
feature of the Melba Room will be the
serving of a calory-luncheon for those
on a reducing-diet. Present at the open-
ing cocktail-party given by Mr. and Mrs.
Leon White in the Melba Room were
Commander and Mrs. F. J. James, Col.
F. H. Wright (Consul-General for the
Netherlands), Mr. and Mrs. C. M.
Marshall, the Arnold Isaacsons, Mr.
and Mrs. H. Jacobsen, Mr. T. J. Fogarty
and Baron Snider (he is the endorsed
Liberal candidate for St. Kilda in the
State elections).
☆\ ☆ ☆
A pleasant afternoon-tea party at the
Oriental Hotel provided an opportunity
to meet the new matron of the Austin
Hospital, Heidelberg. She is Miss Hazel
Johnson, a nurse of wide experience who
resigned her position as controller-of-the-
household of the Brisbane and South
Coast Hospitals Board to take over her
new post. Miss Johnson has served in
hospitals in New Zealand, where she was
born, and in various parts of Australian
In Queensland, Miss Johnson acted as
adviser to the Government on the estab-
lishing of new hospitals, and during the
last war was appointed by the Queens-
land Government to supervise the hous-
ing of children evacuated to that State
from Great Britain. She also prepared
emergency civil-hospitals and A.R.P.-
stations for the Hospitals Board. A
Justice of Peace, she is a member of
the Queensland branch of the College of
Nursing, the Student Christian Movement
and the Institute of Management.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Kenneth Kemble, here on a
three-months’ visit from England to her
family and friends, has been staying at
Alcaston House. She will go on to be
with her son and daughter-in-law, Mr.
and Mrs. Geoffrey Fairbairn, at Mount
Elephant, Derrinallum. She will then go
to her son-in-law and daughter, Mr. and
Mrs. Peter Mercer, at Glenmore, near
Albury (N.S.W.), before returning to
London.
Ann Swallow, as well as being a
voluntary transport-driver for Red Cross,
is a member of the Robin Hood com-
mittee which works for the Helping Hand
Association for Mentally Retarded Chil-
dren. She is ticket-secretary for the
"Mississippi Rendezvous, which the com-
mittee will hold on February 4, when a
Yarra launch will be transformed into an
old-time Mississippi river-boat. Guests
will dance to a black-face band, and the
launch will moor at the Hawthorn Tea
Gardens for supper. Tickets, a guinea,
may be obtained from Ann (phone,
BM 1031). John Warlow photo.
Ideal summer weather prevailed for the
Melbourne Racing Club’s meeting at
Caulfield. Flower-printed silks and cottons
and the large picture-hat led the field in
the Fashion Stakes. Mrs. Robert Gove,
wife of the M.R.C. chairman, wore an
emerald-green linen tailored frock, belted
with white to match her attractive white
silk straw cloche. At the luncheon she
gave before the first race, Mrs. O. M.
Berkely, a visitor from London, was a
guest. She chose a frock of navy-blue
cloque and a white straw planter’s-hat
draped with white chiffon. Another guest
was Mrs. G. R. Davis-Goff, who wore
pale-pink eyelet-embroidered linen with
a small white hat.
Very attractive was the apple-green
silk-shantung frock worn by Mrs. V.
Roach with a large white hat. Mrs. S. G.
Garnsworthy (her husband was formerly
M.R.C. chairman) was in black-spotted
white silk and a large black tulle picture-
hat. A white-chiffon frock pleated from
bodice to hem was worn by Mrs. M.
Sloman with a tiny white lace-straw pill-
box-hat finished with a tiny black rose.
Mrs. W. Pultney Mein’s suit was of love-
in-the-mist-blue silk-shantung; tiny pink
roses trimmed her pink straw cloche.
SYDNEY
The Festival of Christian Youth, held
at the Showground on Saturday night,
was the climax to the National Christian
Youth Convention, organised by the
Methodist Church of Australasia and
held in Sydney last week. Four thousand
delegates from all parts of Australia,
(including aborigines) from the Northern
Territory, from New Zealand, Fiji,
Tonga and Samoa, young people of all
occupations—tradesmen, students, clerks,
laborers —their average age 21, gathered
here for study and discussion, to develop
their sense of responsibility in social life,
and to give witness of their religious faith
in the future of Australia.
At the Festival it was an impressive
sight to see all these young people,
dressed in white, in the floodlit arena at
the Showground, turning towards the
huge illuminated cross set high above
the oval in the map of Australia, and
dedicating their lives to their faith.
Earlier in the evening there had been
a spectacular display of sport, gymnastics
by Australia’s champions, volley-ball,
basketball, rhythmical exercises, badmin-
ton, box-leaping—all taking place simul-
taneously. There had been a procession
of humorous floats satirising many
aspects of the convention ; a ballet in
which the Powers of Evil were overcome
by the Powers of Good; singing of
“Green Grow the Rashes O! ” ; a Negro
spiritual and the Mission to the Nation
song, by the whole assembly of many
thousands ; hymn-singing by the Crusader
Choir ; and a play, “Truth in the Arena,”
which included tableaux set all round
the ground representing those who had
stood for truth in past days, and symbolic
figures speaking for or against Truth in
modern living.
A fine mist of rain fell throughout the
evening, but the brilliance of the lights
on the arena, the greenness of the grass
and the composure of the participants
made it easy for the onlooker to forget
that it was not a fine night.
This convention, the first to be held
in Australia, has been three years in
preparation. Those responsible for its
success are principally the Rev. Dr.
George Wheen, the Rev. Alan Walker, the
Rev. Rex Mathias, the Rev. R. J. Williams
and the organising-secretary, Miss Berely
McLachlan. The special speaker at the
convention was Dr. Roy L. Smith, of
Los Angeles.
Sandra Bragg, who spent the Christmas
season with her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Bragg, of Aberdeen, at their Terri-
gal summer-home, has now returned to
town and has resumed her work as pri-
vate-secretary to Dr. Roger Dunlop, of
Edgecliff. Photo by Hugh Spencer.
A cocktail-party with a charming and
unusual atmosphere was that given by
Rear-Admiral R. R. Dowling in H.M.A.S.
Sydney as a farewell to his Fleet before
going to Melbourne to take up the posi-
tion of First Naval Member. Mrs.
Dowling and daughters Jill and Sue helped
the Admiral receive the guests, who
included the captains of the Fleet and
members of his personal staff (who add
to the always-dapper white naval uniform
garlands of the most fabulous gold-braid).
Mrs. Dowling’s dress of pale-gold
striped organza was set off by jade-green
gloves and curvette hat. Jill wore
anthracite-grey poplin with white acces-
sories and a fetching white-sprinkled eye-
veil. Sue, who celebrated her 20th birth-
day with a party on the ship the following
day, wore cinnamon nylon patterned with
brown, and was hatless.
Highlight of the party was the “sound-
ing retreat” at sunset by the Fleet-band,
when the ensign is lowered and the lights
are switched on. Among the guests were
the Minister for the Navy, Mr. Francis,
Lieut.-General E. W. Woodward and
Miss Woodward, Air-Marshal A. L.
Walters and Mrs. Walters (she wore a
white sheath-dress and tiny ostrich-
feather hat), Sir Frank and Lady Berry-
man, Rear-Admiral and Mrs. H. A.
Showers, Rear-Admiral and Mrs. J. B.
Stevenson, and Commander and Mrs.
Wincott.
☆ ☆ ☆
Many people are worried about modern
youth, including American singer and
film-star Frank Sinatra, who arrived
here during the week. Accompanied by
his 14-year-old daughter Nancy, Mr.
Sinatra was greeted by 9000 screaming
youngsters at Mascot, but this was not
what worried him, for he described his
welcome as “the greatest” (this is a vari-
ant of the latest American superlative
“the most,” asiin “You’re the most!”).
What does worry him about modern youth
is that it doesn’t go out dancing like it
used to! Still, it has some virtues e.g.,
it’s obedient. Sinatra fans were particu-
larly asked not to swoon when they saw
the maestro, and, so far, nobody has.
A statistic which may be of interest is
that Mr. Sinatra is the second hus-
band of Ava Gardner to visit Australia
within 12 months. The first to do so was
band-leader Artie Shaw, who came here
in 1954. Now, if we could only get
Mickey Rooney (husband No. 1) to
come out, what a great day that would
be for Australia!
☆ ☆ *
Many who remember Helen as
the young girl who appeared in the film
of the outback, “The Overlanders, 10
years ago will be interested to hear that
she is to make her home 200 miles west
of Oodnadatta (S.A.) after her marriage
to David Joseland next month. The pro-
perty is Everard Park, and her nearest
neighbors will be 50 miles away. Helen
is looking forward to her life in the out-
back and commented during the week on
the fact that Daphne Campbell, who
played the leading role in The Over-
landers,” and who is now Mrs. Sam
Calder, has also settled in the Centre, on
a property outside Alice Springs.
'☆ h &
The Archibald exhibition is always
rather confusing for a social-reporter.
There are so many well-known people
hanging on the walls that it s hard not
to address remarks to them as well as
about them:
“There’s Mr. Menzies. Good morning,
sir. Mrs. Falkiner’s looking well, isn’t
she? (Mrs. G. B. S. Falkiner, you know).
Who’s "that over there? Alderman
O’Dea! Yes, of course, I knew I’d seen
that face somewhere. How do you
do, Lady Berryman? Why, Grevor
Molyneux, I never knew you were left-
handed. Here’s John Dease (if those
lips could only speak!). Isn’t that the
dress Mrs. Hector Livingston wore to
the Black-and-White Ball? Why, Mr.
Aubrey Halloran, you are looking well!
Rather pensive today, aren’t you, Sir
James? How’s Lady Bissett?”
It’s all very distracting, but it must be
hardest of all for reporters from “S. M.
Herald,” who have to do their work
under the constantly appraising eye of
Mr. Warwick Fairfax, as he sits back
on the centre wall and surveys the
passing show.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Contemporary Art Society will
probably award first-prize among the
Archibald entries to Michael Kmit for
his self-portrait. It’s the sort of thing
the C.A.S. seems to like, and Mr. Kmit
certainty has talent. He doesn’t see
himself as others see him, however, for
just one portrait away is a painting of
him by Judy Cassab, and the two are not
much alike. “Now, look at that,” said
one onlooker. “They can’t both be
right!”
The Archibald continues to be popu-
lar. Over 7000 people went to see the
exhibition on Sunday, a good tally, even
considering that it was a wet Sunday (a
wet “Sunday, it is generally admitted, is
one of the greatest of the friends of the
National Art Gallery).
•ft ☆ ☆
If you wish to keep abreast of culinary
fashions you must learn to make
“kebabs,” a dish consisting of little bits
of meat, onion, condiment or whatever
you can find in the refrigerator, stuck
alternately on skewers and broiled or
grilled. They’re rather a nuisance to
make, but they give one an opportunity
to show one’s ingenuity, and at any rate
they’re the mode, so you must learn to
make them. '
\


Public Notice
I, MAY STINA BIRGITTA LUNDQUfST,
of Swedish nationality, born at Storvik,
Sweden, resident 17 years in Australia,
now residing at 4 Glebe Street, Edge-
cliff, N.S.W., intend to apply for Naturali-
sation under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act, 1948.
fiailJi in Hie
future
m
It is a pleasant diversion to look into an old
book occasionally. Old books are like people—
the riper their age, the more wisdom you’ll find in
them.
One book that I opened recently was a local
almanac and gazetteer published in the very early
years of this century—of the type too seldom
printed these days.
There was as much interest in the advertise-
ments as in the information with which it was
packed.
A firm was appealing to its sulky-owning
customers to make driving more comfortable by
fitting rubber tyres to their vehicles.
An Edison “talking machine,” including brass
bell horn, was illustrated for the admiration of
those wishing to enjoy the new wonder of music
reproduced in the home.
For the mechanically-minded there was a
traction engine with a funnel that folded over, and
“extra long firebox for burning wood.”
In our own age of aircraft and high-powered
motor cars, of radio and television, of machinery
that will move earth and haul and construct at an
amazing rate, these “modern” devices of 50 years
ago may seem quaint, perhaps amusing.
For my part, I view them with the deep
respect they deserve.
Fifty years hence, I daresay, someone picking
up an almanac of 1955 will wonder at the simplicity
with which we ourselves went about our occasions.
No age contains the ultimate in achievement.
We are living in an era when progress in science
and knowledge has come with staggering velocity;
but it is still only a phase.
Other marvels will branch from those we now
look upon as the last word in modernity. And
constant through it all will be the spirit of Man,
without which no material implement has any
direction. That is the energising force.
If we Australians have faith in ourselves, and
act upon that faith, the years will tell the rest of a
brilliant story.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Arthursts
Archibald Prize
About 75 per cent, of the 77
Archibald Prize entries exhibited
at the N. S. Wales National
Gallery eliminate themselves
very quickly on elementary
essentials of portraiture.
One does not apply a yard-
stick to art, of course, but there
are fundamental things—a like-
ness yielding something of
character; the technical skill to
put that on to canvas with full
regard for bone and flesh and
skin-texture; and a sense of
composition in form and color
that leads the eye to the central
point —the face —and does not
distract it.
Elementary things; obvious
things ; yet only William Dargie’s
two entries and Ivor Hele’s
prize-winning portrait of Mr.
Menzies fulfil those conventions
completely—and even Hele, with
his second entry, falls down on
composition. There are other
things to be considered, of
course, but it is in those
elementary requirements that the
bulk of the entries fall short.
Some —a dozen or more —
come close, and others —such as
Mary McLeish’s light and grace-
ful impression, or Alda De
Francesco’s quick, dramatic
sketch —have qualities of their
own giving them incidental
interest without the full qualities
of portraiture.
Portraits by H. A. Hanke
(Alderman O’Dea), E. Buck-
master (Mrs. G. B. S. Falkiner),
Graeme Inson (Mrs. Barbara
Hore-Lacy), Garret Kingsley
(“Beverley”) and Arthur Rydge
(G. K. Townshend) meet the
conventions pretty closely with-
out saying very much about
their subjects, although one
would think from the painting,
the grace and the expression
which Kingsley has got into his
portrait of “Beverley” that he
is a potential Archibald-
winner—if he didn’t have show-
ing on the same wall a flat and
unrevealing portrait of Mr.
Adolph Sasser.
William Pidgeon’s “J. E.
Cassidy, Q.C.,” and Joshua
Smith’s “Judge H. L. Lamond”
have wit or sharp observation
about them, but not quite the
full, calm certainty of solid
portrait-painting.
Judy Cassab’s painting of Mr.
W. Fairfax is a curious mixture
of strength and immaturity—or
uncertainty; on the other hand,
Arthur Murch’s portrait of John
Santry loses its strength in the
soft poetry of color so well
suited to his landscapes and
paintings of women and
children; in Mary Edwards’s
portrait of Sir Hudson Fysh, her
familiar pink-and-blue color-
scheme does not seem particu-
larly appropriate, even for a
flying-fysh.
Ivor Hele’s portrait of Jean
Hele is a strong painting of a
handsome woman, but is un-
balanced by the distracting
color-masses of red, black and
yellow, so that the eye does not
turn easily to the face nor rest
comfortably on it.
The three finalists, one feels,
must have been J. Carington
Smith, Dargie and Hele. Smith’s
portraits—of Professor A. L.
McAulay and Frank D. Clew-
low —strike the viewer as im-
pressive likenesses, but they
would seem to steal a point or
two from caricature and lose a
little on the flesh-painting, on
their arrangement and on their
murky, disturbing backgrounds.
Hele’s win is a good one, but
one would hesitate to class it as
an outright victory. His por-
trait of Mr. Menzies, set against
a light, almost luminous back-
ground, and dominated by the
P.M.’s heavy black brows,
glinting eyes and ready mouth,
is painted with all the artist’s
characteristic strength and with
admirable modelling of the
hands and features. Yet hang-
ing on either side is a Dargie
portrait one of Professor
Harold Dew, the other of Sir
Gordon Bell—both beautifully
composed; both painted with
smooth, assured skill; and both,
despite the superb painting of
the elaborate black-and-gold
satin gowns, leading the eye
directly to the features and
holding it there for a long
time.
Hele’s portrait of the P.M.
probably won on strength, and
deservedly so, but it must have
been a difficult choice.
The Wynne Prize for land-
scape goes to Arthur Evan Read
for “Cooktown” —a view in
hot reds, browns and yellows,
Of a street, shops and veranda-
posts. It has a rough dramatic
quality, but, hanging beside and
about it, are five other paintings
—another by Read, two land-
scapes by Charles Bush, one by
George Lawrence and one by
John Santry—all of which de-
pend too much on a similar
quality for their interest: bold
color, boldly used. It is effective
enofigh, but it recalls “Saturday
Evening Post” illustrations to
“westerns” and other stories.
That proves nothing, of course
—unless, perhaps, art is getting
closer to illustration, or illustra-
tion to art —but such familiarity
does destroy distinction.
There is more poetry, more
art—if less drama—in the pale
mistiness of Lance Solomon’s
“The Red Bridge,” even though
that painting falls well short of
Solomon’s full powers.
Entries for the Sulman com-
petition for a mural design look
rather like a hangover from the
Blake ; the prize goes to Wallace
Thornton for “Sculptor and
Model,” the purpose of which
seems as dark and as indefinite
as most of the exhibits around
it.
Stage and Music
“Hat Trick”
The. Phillip-street Theatre’s
third topical revue is unusual in
that it has seven leading ladies,
all with a sense of humor, and
one male compere, Max Oldaker.
Otherwise it is much the same
mixture as, before, and quite
palatable at that.
Of the 26 sketches, three are
“revivals”; only one, “Ladies in
Waiting,” deserves the honor.
Among the best of the others are
“Pale Hands I Hate,” in which
Aileen Britton is an Indian
squaw with an embarrassingly
pale-faced papoose; “Going to
the Picture's,” wherein Lyle
O’Hara and Diana Davidson talk
in advertising-slogans (“Was
that the picture that was made
in Australia for all the world to
applaud?” “Yes, did you like
it?” “No, not much.”); “Cinder-
feller on Ice”; “The Red
Shadow,” in which Max Oldaker
waits for the “Desert Song” to
be staged on ice ; “Pen Friends,”
a skit on films about women in
jail; and “Twelve Shopping
Days to Christmas,” wherein
carol-singing is combined with
advertising.
Lyle O’Hara proves herself a
first-class comedy actress, able
to make lines like “Two Long
Island shirts” sound hilariously
funny and her song, “I’m Walk-
ing Beside Myself on My
Wedding Day,” a highlight of
the show. The other girls—
Aileen Britton, Paula Langlands,
Diana Davidson, Sheila Help-
mann, June Salter and Shirley
Sunners —keep a high standard
of liveliness, and though the
sketches don’t strike such high
peaks of humor as some in past
revues, the production is much
smoother, the singing and danc-
ing quite acceptable, and the
dressing and decor (by Peter
Hurst and Joseph Shearer respec-
tively) better than ever before.
♦> * *
“The Cocktail Party”
T. S. Eliot’s almost Shavian
play, with its insistent
modernity, its presentation of
the saviors of society as a
gossipping old spinster, a
psychologist and a young man-
about-town with some sort of
behind-scenes Government job,
has one brilliant and, so far as
one knows, absolutely new idea:
the presentation of a man
mentally incapable of loving
and of a woman mentally incap-
able of being loved —that is
further than Shaw (whose main
effort was to present love as a
reasonable emotion) ever went,
and an idea he would have
envied.
For the rest, it is a verse-play
from which, if the actors do not
accentuate it, you hardly miss
the verse; and in which the
word-play of verse crops up in
the mannerism that Eliot
borrowed from Lancelot
Andrewes’s sermons: “I thought
I was thinking of this, then I
thought I had been thinking of
that, then I felt I must have
been thinking of something else
—or,” charming and wistful
smile, “nothing at all.” But for
all that, the total effect is, as
with Shaw’s best plays, of a
suave and crisp set of paintings
of London people and manners.
At any rate, this was the
impression to be gained by the
Genesians’ performance at their
beautifully remodelled little old
hall in Kent-street, down among
the whisky- and machinery-
importers and the wholesale
paper-merchants. The main
(drawing-room) scene was finely
mounted with Grace Brothers’
most curiously curved and
colored modernistic furniture,
and the men of the cast wore
the newest charcoal (is it?)
shades of grey.
Bruce Stewart was perhaps
most satisfying as the unloving
husband; it seemed incredible
that anyone so easy on the eye
and of such charm as Lome
Campbell could be incapable of
being loved, but of course that
accentuates Eliot’s sermon; as
the young saint destined to-be
crucified near an ant-bed,
Philippa Baker was proper ner-
vous and excitable, and brought
to her long passages a most
musical intonation ; and Mary
Mackay was an excellently dour
and interfering spinster.
Paul O’Loughlin had all the
right attitudes for the psycholo-
gist, without quite enough verve
—perhaps that and a slight
uneasiness and rigidity of stance
in Brian Farmer’s comedy man-
about-town, and a paleness in
Michael McGurren’s charac-
terisation of a young and
impressionable film - executive
may be cured with further
performances.
In his production, especially
in the easy moving of people
about on the stage, Neil Hutchi-
son was most successful,
although in the speaking the
naturalness was achieved at the
expense of the verse: in a
recorded English version of the
performance, you could at least
hear, every now and then, a
suggestion of Eliot’s movement.
Talkies
“Suddenly”
Any one of a dozen of Holly-
wood’s “tough” actors could
have made a good fist of the
chief character in this film, which
concerns a hired assassin’s deter-
mination to “get” the U.S.
President as he steps off a train
at a hamlet. Frank Sinatra got
the role, apparently in an
endeavor to boost him as an
actor. He isn’t; yet he manages
to convey a fair proportion of
the cold-blooded ruthlessness of
the killer. But the script allows
too much self-analysis during
the long wait for the train, and
while the baddie terrorises the
family whose house he has
commandeered.
Suspense is built up to a fair
climax, and the procedures are
feasible enough except for an
unconvincing romance which
has been tacked on, with Sterling
Hayden and Nancy Gates
obviously unenthusiastic about
it. And there’s the usual pre-
cocious Hollywood brat with a
voice like a hacksaw going
through tin upon whom the
audience must have hoped the
would-be assassin’s telescopic
rifle would mercifully be turned.
At Sydney Palace.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Ring of Fear”
It has long been standard
practice that the plot of every
circus-film must have as its main-
spring dastardly attempts to kill
one of the partners of a high-
trapeze act, during a perform-
ance in which the safety-net is
removed. In this case a jealous
maniac-at-large ds the dastard,
and he was probably aalled
something like that by the
trapezist who misses death by
inches and a miracle.
Apart from the plot having
more holes than a colander, not
one of the cast succeeds in
breathing life into any character.
The film is notable for introduc-
ing for the first time—and it is
to be hoped, the last—Mickey
Spillane, the crime-writer, as a
detective. Mickey achieves a
continuity of unintelligible
mumbling which nobody else
could simulate without talking
through a 20ft. steel pipe while
holding three billiard-balls in his
mouth. At Sydney Plaza.


nym
by
J.S. Litchfidd
I WOKE to a world of white.
Even my feet were invisible
to me in this thick mist, so
I curled up a bit closer under
my rugs, and decided that I
would let the atmosphere warm
up a trifle before I left my warm
possie.
A sound in the white blankness
surrounding me sent my heart
into my mouth, and my hand
groping under my pillow for my
revolver.
“What name?” I demanded, as
firmly as my chattering teeth
would let me. “You there;
speak up! What name?”
“Me Nym . . . boss,” came a
quavering call from out the
whiteness. “Me good-feller all
right, boss ; me Nym! ”
“Good-feller, are you?” I
retorted. “Come on, then, let me
have a good look at you. No
shenanigans, now.” X sat up,
revolver at the ready, prepared
to shoot at the first suspect sound
or move.
There was a stir in the mist,
and out of it stepped an
aboriginal boy, about sixteen
years of age, black as a burnt log,
thin as a fence-rail, naked as the
day he was born. His eyes
watched my face with eager
appeal, and his voice rose again:
“Me good-feller, boss; me
Nym!”
“Make up fire; boilum billy ;
creek that away.” I gestured
with my chin in the direction of
the water.
“My savvy, boss; this one
country longa me.” The boy
raked the smouldering logs
together, and soon had the billy
swinging over a brisk fire, close
to which he squatted, warming
himself happily, while I lay back
and considered matters.
I could do with a mate; but
none of the white men whom I
had met with up to now had been
very congenial spirits; they
nearly all ran after the native
women, they were heavy drinkers
and, often enough, were exceed-
ingly quarrelsome in their cups.
Very few of them did what I
considered was a fair division of
the hard yakker which prospect-
ing called for. Now, I admired
the abo. women at a distance,
but found them too smellful
when near by ; drinking had little
appeal for me, and I preferred
peace to war any day; and I
did believe in good, honest hard
work. So —none of my previous
partners had lasted any time with
me.
But I had no desire to de-
generate into a “hatter” ; I had
seen too much of what sheer
loneliness can do to a white man
in the North Australian bush.
Therefore, the coming of this
young blackfellow offered possi-
bilities. For one thing, he was,
apparently, an orphan ; his very
name, “Nym” (literally, “a boy”),
showed that. Possibly, he was
the result of some liaison. Such
children, if protected from the
cannibalistic hunger of the tribe
at birth, shared freely in all that
the camp-life had to offer, as
long as they were children. But
when the time came for them to
be “made young men,” they had
no sponsors to stand for them;
they were unable to go through
the ritual tribal rites, and, when
lean times came, were turned out
of the camp and left to fend for
themselves.
This meant that Nym, like me,
was a solitary pelican; there
would be no crowd of hungry-
gutted lubras and piccaninnies
swarming down upon us, expect-
ing to be fed at my expense. He
looked to be cheerful and
friendly, he offered a certain
amount of companionship, and
he might prove a very willing
worker. He would probably take
a lot of burdens off my
shoulders; he would be able to
provide game for the pot; he
could track up my horses if they
wandered too far away; he
would be able to wash my
clothes, to gather firewood, to
carry water and generally act as
a rouseabout, always at my beck
and call.
CO I fried the bacon, made
sorrje johnnie - cakes and
masked the tea. Then, fishing
out a second enamel plate and
pannikin, I gave Nym a share of
the food, and asked him how
would he like to sit down with
me as wood-and-water joey.
Nym’s shining face was answer
enough. Soon as breakfast was
over we both set to work.
I had arrived at that camp the
previous day; done a spot of
prospecting, liked what I saw
and decided to put in a few weeks
on the place. So, a rough yard
had to be built to hold the horses
at night; a bough-shed had to be
erected to shield me from the
daytime sun and heavy night-
dews ; and the place fitted up
with bunks and boxes and seats.
I believe in comfortable living;
and, with all the wood I wanted
within my reach, with ample
water in the creek for banjoing
and for cooking, and with good
grass for the horses, I soon had
everything ship - shape and
Bristol-fashion.
Nym worked like a white-ant.
At the end of the day, as I sat
beside my campfire, and gazed
at the results of our combined
efforts, I felt very well satisfied.
The bough-shed smelt green and
fragrant; table and seat and
bunk were all built alike —four
forked sticks sunk in the ground,
other sticks laid across the forks,
and a sheet of bark laid as a
smooth cover over all. A many-
branched tree, also sunk in the
ground, made an excellent rack
for frying-pans, billies and the
like (no Irishman’s nails for this
chicken); and the whole place
had a comfortable, lived-in air.
A smaller bough-shed, built on to
the end of mine, made a shelter
for Nym ; and when he had built
up a bunk in imitation of my
own, I passed oyer a gay red
blanket to him, and his cup of
happiness was full.
Nym proved himself invalu-
able. Each morning he awoke
at piccaninny-daylight, had the
fire alight and the billy boiling
before he called me from my
bunk, and saw to it that there
were ample supplies of good fire-
wood always available for cook-
ing purposes. The kerosene-tin
water-buckets were filled afresh
each day; my bunk was made
up every morning, after the rug-
blankets had been well-aired,
with Nym’s beloved red blanket
spread at a polite distance from
my own sober grey ones;
goannas and bandicoots were
captured frequently, and proved
themselves a welcome change
from the eternal tinned-dog;
and lily-roots and yabbies and
an occasional fish were obtained
from a large billabong some
miles distant from my camp.
Each night before turning in
we held a long wongie before the
campfire, Nym with his inevitable
nikky-nikky, myself with the
milder cigarette, and entertained
each other in great style. Nym
would chant the old-time
corroborees' that he had sucked
in with his mother’s milk;
corroborees that set my blood
stirring in my veins, till I felt
that it could not have been so
very long since I, too, had
chanted such corroborees round
the campfire at night, while my
comrades beat out the rhythm
of the chants on their clapping-
sticks and weapons.
Then I would repeat to Nym
some of the old poems that I
had known and loved as a boy:
“High Tide on the Coast of
Lincolnshire,” “How Horatius
Kept the Bridge,” “A Muster at
Tringadee,” “The Lay of the
Brave Cameron,” “Bannerman’s
Ride,” “Telling the Bees” —
Banjo Paterson, Will Ogilvie,
Henry Lawson, Longfellow,
Tennyson, Whittier —in my
solitary ramblings I had repeated
them aloud to myself each night;
now I was rendering them to
eager abo. ears, and mentally
thanking my mother for the
evening readings which I had
loved as a boy. Not that Nym
could have understood more than
about one word in ten that I
quoted; but he enjoyed the
swing arid the lilt of the rhymes,
and the rhythm fitted in with the
music of his own'ichants, so both
of us were happy.
BUT all good times come to an
end. The ground did not live
up to its first promises; and
before long I was faced with the
fact that I must up-sticks and
seek fresh claims elsewhere. I
mentioned the matter to Nym,
one night,* after a day of fruitless
search.
“This one country no good,
Nym,” I said. “No more golo.
More better I go longa Brinkan
country, look out longa there.”
“No good go longa Brinkan
country,” exclaimed Nym, in
alarm. “Him myall, that one
blackfeller; by-um-bye, him
quick-feller stealum kidney-fat
longa you.”
“That one gammon-talk,
Nyrii,” I laughed. “My white
man ; Brinkan can’t take kidney-
fat longa me ; s’pose him try —
close up p’lice man come on, put
him longa Fanny Bay” (Darwin’s
“That one country no good—
too much myall blackfeller,” was
Nym’s only reply.
Next morning Nym begged
me to reconsider my decision.
I would come to no good, he
urged, out in the Brinkan
country; I would find no gold
“Pull yr head in!”
there, he said, and would prob-
ably get speared by the myall
savages out there if, indeed, I
did not get my kidney-fat ripped
out of my quivering body while
I was yet alive.
But I was stubborn. I’d hear#
there was gold out that way, and
I was on the lookout for gold.
No scared nigger was going to
keep me from looKing for it.
Nym’s pleadings grew more
persistent, till at last I lost my
temper, and told him he could
go where he dashed well pleased ;
me, I was going to the Brinkan
country, and that was all there
was to it. If he did not want to
go with me, he could just dashed
well stay behind. “New moon
come on, I go,” I said, defiantly,
after a long night of argument.
Next morning, Nym had
vanished. The fire was alight,
and the billy boiling; but there
was no sign of Nym. His camp
was tidy, his gay red blanket,
the pride of his heart, was neatly
folded on his bunk; and beside
it lay his spoon, pannikin, plate
and clasp-knife ; also his last
allowance of tobacco.
“There’s gratitude for you,” I
growled. “I’ve been more than
a stepmother to that lad, and
look how he repays me. Soon
as my way is contrary to his, he
clears out. Well, I am going to
the Brinkan country, Nym or
no Nym. I’ve been a lone
pelican before, and I can be one
again. Soon as the new moon
shines clear, I’ll go.”
But I missed the boy ; he had
been such jolly company, always
laughing and light-hearted;
always so willing to assist me in
every way; so good with the
horses, so clean and tidy round
the camp; so quick and active
in all that he did.
The days passed slowly. I
would have started on my
journey to the Brinkan country
before the new moon but for a
queer twist in my nature that
makes me stick to stated times
and seasons. So, having said I
would start with the new moon,
I was bound to start then, neither
sooner nor later.
One evening I saw herj a silver
crescent against the sunset sky;
looking like a silver boomerang
flung there by the great
Ahwannah himself; and that
night I gathered together the last
of my possessions, determined to
set off at “piccaninny-daylight”
the next morning.
“Boss, you there? Me Nym,
boss, come back longa you.”
The whisper stabbed sibilantly
through the dark, and I sat up
hastily.
“Oh, you’ve come back, have
you? And expect to be
welcomed like the Prodigal Son,
and have the fatted calf killed
fpr your special benefit. Well,
come along and give an account
of yourself; and it had better
be a good one.” So I muttered,
as I lit the hurricane-lamp ; then
I called aloud, testily, “Come on
in then, let’s see you.”
lyrYM was just as thin as he had
been when he first oozed
out of the mist before me; he
was stark naked, and his heav-
ing chest showed that he had
run fast and far. I tossed him a
stick of nikky-nikky and a lump
of damper. “Tea in the billy,” I
said curtly. “Have a smoke and
a meal and then you can talk.”
Nym needed no second bid-
ding ; he dropped a small object
on my knee, then squatted down
for a satisfying smoke ; food and
drink could follow, later on ; but
a smoke —that was a lifesaver.
“My bin go longa my country-
man,” he explained gustily, in
between puffs. “That one King
longa my country, him little bit
farder longa me. No more full-
up farder,” he explained, in
parenthesis ; this being probably
the reason why he was a “Nym”
(a boy), born the wrong side of
the blanket, so to speak. “Him
on’y little bit farder longa me.
My bin talk longa him, you go
longa Brinkan country, look out
golo ; you good mate longa me.
King, him bin give me yabber-
stick; Brinkan savvy that one,
him good-feller. Brinkan can’t
take kidney-fat longa you, longa
me; him all about good mate
now. You, me, go longa
Brinkan country all right, now.”
While Nym stoked up his
bingey, I studied the letter-stick.
It was of smooth, polished wood,
about five inches in length, and
as thick as my middle finger. It
was carved with twists and lines,
and cross-hatched in places. To
one end was fastened a tiny
scrap of blue cloth; denim, it
looked like ; the other end held a
few tufts of parti-colored wool.
Nym explained the message to
me as he ate.
“This one rag, him talk ‘white
man,’ this one wool, him talk
‘blackfeller.’ This one mark, him
say, ‘White man good mate longa
blackfeller; give him plenty
bully, plenty tea, plenty sugar,
plenty nikky-nikky.’ This one
mark, him say, ‘White man go
longa you country, look out
golo; him good-feller, that one,
no more humbug lubra, no more
cheely-feller, no more silly-
feller laugh longa blackfeller;
him plenty savvy, that one white
man, him close up blackfeller
himself.’ This one mark, him
bin talk, ‘S’pose white man go
longa you country, you look out
longa him, him all same country-
man longa you.’ ”
“H’m, sort of passport or
letter of introduction,” I mused,
turning it over in my hands.
“King him put mark here longa
you, Nym?” I asked at last.
“Yowi,” replied Nym, point-
ing to some fine scratches at one
end of the stick. “This one
mark bin talk my come on longa
you, look out nanto longa you,
huntum tucker longa you, you
boss longa me altogezzer.”
“Good. Well, we are making
an early start, so get what sleep
you can.”
That yabber-stick was a pass-
port, a letter of introduction and
a safe-conduct, all in one. Soon
as I showed it, in the Brinkan
country, the whole place was
open to me, and every Brinkan
ab'o. was my willing slave. Nym
basked in some of my reflected
glory, for was he not my devoted
attendant, always at my side?
The young men of the Brinkan
tribe helped me with my pros-
pecting ; the lubras giggled
shyly as I passed their camps, the
children, once they became
accustomed to my lighter color-
ing, accepted me as one of the
tribe, and the old men made
space for me as they sat together,
sharpening their spears or shap-
ing their woomeras.
I saw much of the private life
of the camps; the real life; for
that yabber-stick was an “open
sesame” to all the Brinkans ; and
they accepted me freely and
easily, with an innate courtesy
such as can never be taught in
schools. They helped me with
my prospecting; which I knew
they privately regarded, in their
own inmost hearts, as the height
of folly.
What was “golo”? You could
not eat it, nor wear it; it was
useless for food, it would not
shelter you in the wet; nor could
it be of any use in corroborees.
(Continued on page 23)


To serve
your country
4NP VOURSUF.
II
I II
il lii | m
■HP
Help NOW to strengthen Australia's Northern Gateway by helping to build
up Queensland’s power resources ! The Queensland State Electricity Loan has
a lustrous record It’s a gilt-edged security, completely safe with repayment
in full at maturity guoronteed by the Queensland State Government There is no
safer, more worthwhile investment to protect and profit YOU and AUSTRALIA.
INVEST IN THE
QUEENSLAND STATE
mm m
■■ I
m
HgSOl)
7, 10, OR 15 YEARS TERM
PER 'CENT
iiliiill::
NOW OPEN/
Repayment in full at maturity is guaranteed by the Queensland Government.
• Interest rate is MORE than DOUBLE Bank Interest. Payable ho/f-yearly.
• You can invest £5O or any multiple of £5O for 7, 10, or 15 years term^
Subscriptions free of exchange.
APPLY through any branch of the Commonwealth Bank, any Stockbroker, or
direct to the Queensland State Electricity Commission in Brisbane.
The Lean is underwritten by /. 8. Were & Sort.
LOAN CLOSES 7th FEB., 1955


THE
TREATMENT OF
HYPERTENSION
By J. J. RYAN, B.A.CQ.), M. 8., 8.5.,
F.R.A.C.S.
This book is an extension of the work of Sir
Robert McCarrison, M.D., F.R.C.P.,
Director of Nutritional Research in India,
who showed that the diseases of civilisation,
e.g., Cancer, High Blood Pressure, Mental
Diseases, etc., were due to errors in diet.
By showing that the majority of cases of high
blood pressure can be permanently cured, it
indicates that this error lies in the mineral
balance of the diet which is mainly derived
from a deterioration in the soil.
It should prove of interest to people who have
high blood pressure, to scientists and agricul-
turalists, as it deals with the nature of changes
taking place in the soil.
Available at leading booksellers or
directly from
MILNE PUBLISHERS
BOX 20. P. 0., LUTWYCHE. BRISBANE.
On 14 days' appoval.
Price £2/2/-
POISON CORROSION
BY NANCY KEESING
SISTER HENNIS woke
early, before the alarm
went off, and found that
she was rubbing her eyes:
they were sore and sticky,
making her wonder whether
it was the soreness which had
roused her or the early-waking
that had caused the sensation of
discomfort.
Then she remembered crying
herself to sleep the previous
night. She did not wish to
remember why, yet, and so
turned on her side, pulled the
blankets above her head and
tried to go to sleep again.
The alarm shrilled. She leaned
over to her bedside-table and
turned it off. As she sat up she
knew, absolutely, that this day,
today, was the day when she
could no longer go on. Today
she would report sick. Anything
not to work. One could behave
normally for weeks, even while
living under a strain that pulled
your nerves like elastic, cut to
fine, fine lengths. If the tension
were released your nerves would
snap back and explode against
you like little whips. If the
tension were not released the
elastic must snap.
Sister Hennis was not sure
what had happened to the
tension; the situation was too
confused for certainty; but
whether that extruded elastic had
snapped of whether it had
rebounded one thing was
certain: for today at least she
had to give in. She could no
longer continue to face other
people ; to accept, in addition to
fear, loneliness and uncertainty,
the responsibilities of her job and
the deceptions which contacts
with hospital-staff knd hospital-
patients involved.
* And she required freedom to
consider her problems—perhaps
to sleep. She would plead
migraine or a bad cold. It didn’t
matter much, for one day, what
pretext was used.
There was a tap at the door
and as she pulled a dressing-
gown over her shoulders, got out
of bed and went to answer it,
she recalled the rest: today was
the end because of what had
happened or, rather, had not
happened last night. It was not
surprising that Robert had not
called to see her. Since his
photographs had appeared in all
the papers he was wise to stay
away.
But there was the telephone,
wasn’t there? Every hour of
last night until the switch closed
down she had listened for the
telephone.
A MAID was waiting at the
door. Usually her break-
fast tray was set down and left
for her, but this morning—and
why, when she looked like this,
was the maid waiting?
“Good-morning, Mary.”
“Oh, Sister! Good-morning.
Matron says would you please
see her as soon as possible.
She’d have sent you a note, she
said, but she’s got that much
extra work . . . but perhaps you
didn’t hear about Sister
Gwenn?”
“No,” her voice sounded, even
to herself, dull and remote ; “no,
I haven’t heard anything.”
“Poor thing. She was in a
terrible train-smash last night.
Killed dead.”
“Oh, Mary, how dreadful,
how ...” The older woman’s
face twisted tearfully. Everyone
knew that she adored Sister
Gwenn ; it was a joke.
“I better go, anyway. You’ll
see it in your paper. Really
dreadful to read them papers just
now. Accidents. That swindler
bloke, and then the divorce.
Shocking hase that is, Sister.
Really I know what I’d say to
that mystery woman if I ever
seen her. I got no patience with
them homebreakers. Not when
blessed saints like Sister Gwenn
just go off like ...”
Sister Hennis took Mary’s
hand for a moment, then said:
“Now, Mary. If Matron wants
to see me I’d better hurry my
breakfast.”
She left her tray on the table
and went down to the bathroom.
No one else was there, but the
mirror was still steamy from
recent showers. She wiped it
with her towel to look at her
eyes. They were red and a bit
puffy, but her face seemed less
altered than she would have
expected. Not, however, the face
of a sensational “mystery
woman” either; nor that, like
poor timid Gwenn’s, of a blessed
saint. A strong, rather dark-
skinned, bony face which needed
make-up before it came alive.
She cupped her hands and
blinked cold water into her eyes.
Drinking tea she glanced at
the paper which came on her
tray each morning. There was
the account of last night’s
tragedy. That must be read.
After all, today was to be worked
through. Sister Gwenn’s death
had in one act provided, as it
were, both cause and cure, for it
was certain, within the compass
of the hospital’s small circle, to
dissipate interest in the sensa-
tional Galveston divorce-case.
She turned to the account of
court hearing. The
morning paper was more objec-
tive than the evening one had
been. It had less snivelling
sympathy for Dorothy Gal-
veston : that pathetic figure who
had attempted suicide when she
learned of Robert’s adultery with
the unnamed co-respondent.
Even had she been free from
the hospital she could never have
attended court herself. It would
have been too dangerous. But
Robert knew how desperately
anxious she was . . . for him'as
much as for herself. He said
himself that the newspaper
accounts were misleading . . .
how else but from him could she
learn the truth.
w 6T’M sorry, Sister,” Matron
said, after all the appro-
priate remarks had been made
hastily, because the hospital’s
routine must be reorganised
swiftly and without any obvious
alterations, “I’m sorry; because
really I’m worried, about you.”
Sister Hennis achieved a tinny
half-laugh. Matron was stand-
ing : she only reached the
younger woman’s shoulder.
Ridiculous to feel at a dis-
advantage with anyone so small.
It was her black, horribly dis-
cerning eyes that were so dis-
concerting : the eyes and the
stern discipline of a thin eagle-
face whose softness had been
marshalled into shrewdness, and
whose humor was transmuted
into a cynical elevation of each
eyebrow and an ironic twist at
the corner of the mouth.
“No need to worry about me,
Matron.”
“No?. I have not thought you
looked well for some time,
Sister. I am not curious, but it is
difficult to give sufficient energy
to responsibilities when one is
not well.”
“My health is very good.”
“Yes. There are, of course,
varieties of indisposition which
can be overcome. There are
times though,” her mouth was
crooked now, “when it does less
harm to yield. Well —there we
are. I’m glad to have your assur-
ance because there is no
immediate alternative.”
“My worst worry is that I have
not done any work in out-
patients for so long. I’ll be a bit
rusty on the routine.”
“You’ll manage well. The
head nurse, Wilson, is a good
girl. Sister Gwenn is . . . was ...
extremely thorough.”
A SENIOR and junior nurse
were busy preparing the
clinic for the day. Nurse Wilson,
smoothing linen covers on to the
examination-tables, was energeti-
cally .competent. Pull, stretch,
pat and then a sweeping final
flourish with the palm of her
hand. Her air, as Sister Hennis
observed it, caused in her an
upsurging of weary despair.
Then the girl turned round
smiling: the smile of a “good
girl,” as Matron had called her.
Not a happy grin, but, as suited
the occasion, one of gravely
friendly acceptance. Sister went
to the desk, followed by Nurse
Wilson. She was smaller than
Sister Hennis had at first thought
and slighter. The junior nurse
was a merry little dump of a
lass. Sister Gwenn had been
short and thin. All these little
people! They made her feel
awkward.
“I’d be glad,” she said, “if
you’d check the system with me.”
She opened the appointment-
book behind which were neat
stacks of cards.
“So,” said the nurse, “the blue
cards are for new patients, white
for occasional, red for emer-
gencies and green ...”
The telephone shrilled. Sister
started. Her hand moved out.
The junior nurse was there.
“Out-patients,” she said, into
the receiver.
Yes, of course. This telephone
was nothing to do with Robert.
But somewhere some part of her,
while she wept and slept at last
and woke and saw Matron, some-
thing in her brain remained
alert; had not yet realised that
it was useless, this waiting for
him to telephone.
The out - patient surgeon
arrived. He looked at her,
curiously, she thought.
“Good-morning, Dr. Russell.”
She spoke to a pair of very blue
staring eyes, and he, too, was
short. He would not reach above
Robert’s ear.
“How do you do, Sister ... ?”
“Hennis.”
“Of course. From Women’s
Surgical.”
“That’s right. Very out of
practice here, I’m afraid.”
“Never mind. Never mind.
We do splendidly, eh, Nurse
Wilson? Excellent system
here ...”
He stopped speaking abruptly,
and there was a fragile little
moment while they all recalled
whose system it was that went
so smoothly.
“We-ell,” he said, “now what
have we first?”
It was not so bad with the new
patients and occasional visitors,
but the regular patients, especi-
ally the garrulous ones, made
normality difficult. And the
ghouls’ “Oh, to think! I couldn’t
use her desk meself, just like it
always was.”
And the telephone. Ringing
every few minutes, and still that
obstinate part of her brain raced
to reply to it. Had it not been
for the telephone, she might have
forgotten.
Up in her ward a staff-nurse
would be doing rounds now.
Speaking to the women. Listen-
ing to their complaints, learning
how they felt, and above all
enduring their gossip. She
almost wished to be there herself.
Would the accident have taken
precedence as news over the
divorce report?
But the staff-nurse would prob-
ably spend less time in conversa-
tion. Few ward-sisters spent as
much time as she did with each
patient in the morning.
They were not rushed; and
when morning-tea was brought
to the small changing-room the
doctor, sister and the two nurses
were able to shut the door and sit
down to it.
“Does everyone take milk?”
she asked.
“What? Oh, no, Sister, sorry,
none for me.”
Sister Gwenn would have
known, of course.
T\R. RUSSELL said, “By the
way, Dr. Smith will be
taking over at three-o’clock. I
have to appear in court. No
need to look so worried, Sister,
I’m on the -side of the angels! ”
She giggled shrilly and too
rapidly stammered: “Oh! Oh!
I didn’t think anything else . . .
{Continued on page 34)


SB5
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
duplicator
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
National" Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
etc.
Bull, entirety In Sustrah, try
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
>m??ATni NE * • Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd
"r. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
rbitiJl ..Docket Book <Jo. (Auiuj
you can put 700 lb. of meat
fX
'
zJ?
<v
in this quick-freezer.
\ ;
Other Flashfreezers include:
PR22. Freezer-Refrigerator Combination,
IB| cu. feet of freezing space, 3£
cu. feet of refrigeration.
PR 14. Freezer-Refrigerator Combination,
Io| cu. feet of freezing space, cu. feet
of refrigeration.
PI2. Freezer capacity 12 cu. feet.
There are many limes when you have meal or supplies
in quanlily or when reliable food preservation over a
long period could be of great assistance to you. Stock
might be at its best for the table » . . an abundance
of vegetables . . . Spring, for killing poultry at its
best. All are occasions when you really appreciate a
Flashfreeze quick-freezer. For withva Flashfreeze you can
store food in bulk at these times and keep it safely,
till needed. For instance, fresh beef, lamb, mutton,
pork, veal, poultry, butter, fruit, vegetables, baked bread
and fruit cake can all be stored in a Flashfreeze
for as long as 12 months without deterioration in
flavour or nutritional value. Then, there is the
convenience to be considered. Besides having food at
its best, you always have a goodly supply on hand
because these units are large, the one illustrated at
left having a capacity of 20 cu. feet and holding
700 lb. of meat or an equivalent quantity of vegetables
or other food stuffs. All Flashfreeze models have at
least 2 compartments for long storage quick-freezing.
However, some models have an additional section for
refrigeration for your normal day to day needs a
combination of the best in quick-freezing and
refrigeration.
Publicity Manager,
Noyes Bros. (Sydney) Ltd.,
Box 1587, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
I would be pleased to receive full inform-
ation about Flashfreeze.
NAME
ADDRESS T
The whole jungle, and the
billabongs, and the sea, swarmed
with food, to be had for the
taking thereof; there was bark,
for shelter from sun or rain or
wind, to be obtained by the mere
effort of cutting it off the tree ;
there were red and yellow
ochres, and white pipeclay, to be
picked up from the rocks on the
beaches; and charcoal, to be
gathered from the campfires, for
corroboree decorations; there
were bamboos for spear-hafts,
quartz for spear-points, to be had
for the mere seeking—why, then,
work so hard for something one
could not wear, nor eat, nor
drink, nor shelter under?
In vain did I explain that with
the “golo” I could buy food and
clothing and shelter and
weapons; here were sea and
jungle and billabong full of all
that man might ever require, all
ready to be taken as needed ;
and, if one did come home from
the hunt empty-handed, well —
other hunters were more lucky,
and one could share with them,
so that none ever went hungry,
save from choice.
Yes, I enjoyed my stay with
the Brinkans, but a time came
when I had to leave their
country, to try my luck else-
where. I was sorry to have to
leave such enjoyable people, but
my Eldorado beckoned, and I
had to follow, even though it was
but an ignis fatuus that I chased.
So, one pleasant morning, I said
good-bye to my friends the)
Brinkans and set out on my
travels again.
QNE day Nym came over to
me as I toiled at my
banjoing.
“Boss,” he said, without pre-
amble, “more’ better my go back
longa my own country.”
“What name?” I asked. “You
bin knock up longa me?”
“No more,” came Nym’s swift
answer. “My can’t knock up
longa you, Boss; on’y all time
my country call me: ‘Nym, you
come on,’ ‘Nym, you come on!’
My wantum stop here, boss,
longa you; you, me—good
mate; on’y my country, him
make me go.”
I knew. It was the earth-
hunger. Once that call came
nothing on earth could quieten
it. If I induced Nym to stay
with me, because of our close
attachment, he would never be
really happy again and, sooner or
later, he would sneak away. If
I let him go freely, then after
some stay, long or short, with
his own countrymen, he would
come back again to me, and
stay, maybe for years, till his
country’s call came again.
If I held him back, against his
will, he would grow sulky and
lazy; and possibly dje in time,
through sheer inability to live
long outside his own land. I had
seen it happen, and knew there
was only one thing for me to do:
let Nym go back to his own
people.
“All right, Nym,” I said, with
what cheerfulness I could. “You
go back all right longa you
country. By-um-bye you knock
up longa that one country longa
you, you come back longa me
That all right, ain’t it?”
“Yowi, Boss,” said Nym,
“apply; then he paused a little.
“You savvy all right, Boss?” he
asked, anxiously. “My no more
knock up longa you ; you, me —
good mate, all right; on’y my
country, him make me come
on.”
“My savvy, all right,” I said,
kindly. “You go walkabout;
by-um-bye you come back longa
me.”
Nym packed all his goods that
night. He was taking his gay
red blanket with him; his
pannikin and plate and spoon
and sheath-knife; and a dozen
cartridges for the old gas-pipe
gun he used for shooting game.
I thought a dozen cartridges were
enough; more might have been
a temptation for the tribe to start
a shooting-alfray with other
tribes; and that might have led
to awkward questions being
asked by the police ; for blacks
are not supposed to have guns in
their camps.
He was taking two dozen sticks
of nikky-nikky, a packet of
matches, four tins of bully, a
half-bag of flour, a tin of golden
syrup, about three pounds of
sugar and one pound of tea.
Nym had left the tribe (or been
turned out of it) naked and
defenceless, without even a spear
for his protection ; he was going
back to them their equivalent of
a millionaire, clad in khaki shirt
and trousers, and carrying food,
weapons, tobacco and blankets.
He had more possessions than
all the members of the tribe
could gather together at the one
sitting.
Next morning Nym left me.
The tears were running down his
black face as he turned and
strode away, and my own throat
had an unaccustomed lump in
it as I watched him go.
“Nym-bungi, boss,” was the
last farewell that I heard.
Life was lonely without Nym.
I missed his cheery presence, his
happy corroboree as he went
about his work, the talks round
the fire in the evening, as he told
of the abo. legends which were
repeated by the old men till the
neophytes learned them by sheer
repetition ; and 1 found myself
still quoting aloud the verses that
Nym had listened to with such
absorbed interest.
A month passed and another
month followed it. There was
not much gold to be found, but
I still hung on, misliking the idea
of moving elsewhere. I knew
I could do better elsewhere than
I was doing now; but I stayed,
waiting for Nym’s return. When
he came back, I would up-sticks
and be off again, but I did not
feel inclined for any more
solitary wanderings.
ZOOMING back to camp from
my claim in the evening I
saw three slim figures standing
near my humpy; and I think I
knew the truth when I first
sighted them. They watched me
draw near ; three boys, thin as
match-sticks, naked as the day
they were born. The oldest boy,
a lad about twelve years old,
picked up a bark-bound bundle
from the ground and held it out
to me.
“Nym sendum,” he said.
“Nym finish.”
“You myall,” I retorted,
harshly. “Nym no more finish ;
him young man, strong man;
what way him finish? You
gammon! Him no more 010
man, him young-feller, that one
Nym.”
“Yowi,” said the lad, simply.
“Nym bin young-feller, strong-
feller ; him bin come back; all
about camp bin like-um that one
Nym. Plenty corroboree, good-
feller corroboree, longa play-
about illy-illy spear. Nym bin
dodge-um spear, all right; on’y”
—the boy’s voice sank, he
glanced round uneasily—“debbil-
debbil bin come on, him bin
twist-um spear, him bin hittum
Nym, longa top-side leg.”
The boy touched his own leg,
near the thigh. “Debbil-debbil
fight-um longa that one Nym ;
three day”—he counted on his
fingers—“three day, two day,
Nym bin die-e-e-e-e-e. Nym no
more die himself; debbil-debbil
bin fight-um longa him. You
savvy, Boss?”
I nodded, I savvied ; only too
well did I know the poisonous
qualities of a spear cut from
black mangrove or ironwood;
those five days must have been
one long-drawn-out agony, until
death brought a merciful release.
“Me, my brudder longa Nym,”
the boy went on, after a little
pause, “Nym bin talk-talk longa
me, him bin talk, ‘You go longa
my boss, take back gun, every-
sing, longa me ; you tell my boss
my can’t come back now, more
better him go look out nuzzer
one boy. You talk longa my
boss my bin want-um come back
longa him on’y debbil-debbil no
more let me go.’ My word, all
about my countryman bin too
much sorry longa that one Nym ;
they bin make big-feller pooka-
minnie corroboree longa that one
boy ; by-um-bye, corroboree bin
finish, my bin come on longa
you, all same Nym bin talk. You
savvy all right, boss?”
“My savvy, all right,” I said,
kindly, though talking did not
come very easily to me just then.
Another smaller boy
approached with the gun and I
took it; then, at a gesture from
the older boy, I opened the bark-
wrapped parcel. Inside the bark
lay Nym’s red blanket and his
other belongings ; about half the
matches, eight cartridges and a
dozen sticks of nikky-nikky, also
his clothes, all neatly folded
together.
“All about food, camp bin
eatum,” explained the elder boy.
“Some feller matches Nym bin
use-um, some feller cartridge
him bin shoot game longa camp ;
some feller tab'ac him bin give
longa 010 man. Nym bin talk,
‘S’pose you give my stuff back
longa boss, might be him give
you little bit baccy, little bit
tucker ; you eatum all right, then
you come back longa me, talk
longa me you bin do-um job all
right. My no more sleep, s’pose
you no more do that.’ You give
me tucker, tabac, all right,
boss?”
I picked up the tobacco from
the parcel and held it out to the
boy, but he shrank back visibly
distressed.
“My can’t take that one,
boss,” he cried; “that one
belong Nym, all right; my can t
take him. You got tabac longa
camp, him all right; my take
that one.”
I got fresh tobacco from my
store and gave that to the boy.
He took it willingly, also some
food, but refused to stay and
have a meal at my camp.
“More better my go now,
quick-feller, longa camp,” he’
explained. That one Nym, him
wait longa me. S’pose my come
back, tell him you plenty savvy,
tell him my bin take-um every-'
sing longa you ; Nym him sit
down quiet-feller, him sleep all
right; camp no more fright all
night-time longa him. You
savvy, boss?”
“My savvy,” I said. “You go
back, talk-talk longa that one
Nym ; you talk longa him. ‘Boss
bin catch-um everysing longa
him; boss plenty savvy; him
too much sorry-feller longa you;
you bin good mate longa him.’
S’pose you do that, you think
Nym savvy, all right?”
“Him plenty savvy,” cried the
lad, well pleased; and the three
youngsters turned and hurried
off, to carry their message back
to the dead lad who waited to
hear their word, so that he could
rest peacefully in his grave.
A heathen? Maybe, but I
know that I shall walk the more
softly all my days, till the time
comes for me to cross that Great
Divide ; when, maybe, Nym will
greet me again with his beam-
ing smile and his eager greeting
of “Mun-dalla, boss!”


i
¥
#
#
I
V I
defender
ii
i
§g
1
r
D
r,
*s/P.
y
v
m
y
k
/2r^
l
{
X
***
4
U
S&jb
u
n n
DEFENDER
REFRIGERATOR
Look at Defender’s scientifically planned storage space and see hojv much
more food you can store! You can prepare food in advance ready for “meals
in a moment”. This means you can plan your kitchen routine, reduce your
time spent in the kitchen and still give your family food that is absolutely
fresh and full of goodness.
“Double-duty”* and specialized storage gives you a place for every kind of
food and drink and makes Defender the easiest refrigerator to manage.
Get more from living and live better with Defender! See your local IH
dealer today!
* Double-duty means that Defender has a freezer locker and refrigerator all in one.
defender
Flf£W FEATURE
f/aV A FUNCTION/
All-steel cabinet. Gracefully de-
signed glistening white baked
enamel and completely acid-resist-
ant interior.
Choice of either Country Style
(kerosene) or Selectra Style sealed
unit models.
Tall bottle storage. Roomy covered
crisper for vegetables. Twin utility
baskets for eggs and fruit. Meat
chiller.
Full-width freezer locker holds 35
lb. of frozen food. Plenty of room
for ice blocks, ice cream and frozen
desserts.
!_I_LLLt_U
LLLLLLU
U-U-LLU
I_I_UJ_LLU
l_l_l_L_LLLi
LLLU-LU
i_u_li_Cu
L-L-ULL.
LLLLL
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA).
DISTRICT SALES OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES. WORKS: DANDENONG AND GEELONG, VICTORIA. 6L537 .
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Married couple, Sydney, small child,
wants to rent furnished flat or cottage,
anywhere Sydney. Cannot afford
fancy rentals. —5983.
To buy copy of Ecce Homo by
John Robert Seeley.—s9B2.
Information Sought
What were the Phoenix Park
murders ? Were they connected with
Parnell’s struggle for Home Rule for
Ireland ?
In 1881 Parnell, the Irish leader, was
imprisoned, though he warned that,
if he were removed from the scene,
all restraint and control would be
gone, and agrarian outrage and assas-
sination would be intensified (by the
“Invincibles,” a murder-club opposed
to Parnell’s moderating policy). The
violence forecast by Parnell eventuated
under the coercive policy of W. E.
Forster, Chief Secretary of Ireland;
so Gladstone decided on a more tem-
perate approach, and, among other
things, released Parnell from jail.
Forster and the Viceroy, Lord
Cowper, disapproving, promptly re-
signed. Gladstone then sent over
Lord Spencer, as Viceroy, and Lord
Frederick Cavendish as Chief Secre-
tary, Lord Cavendish in particular
being a “harbinger of peace, the per-
sonal representative of Gladstone’s
goodwill, a noble warrant of Eng-
land’s desire for new and better
things.” (G. M. Trevelyan'-s British
History in the 19th Century and,
After). On the very day of their
arrival in Dublin (May 6, 1882), two
days after Parnell’s release, Lord
Frederick and the permanent under-
secretary to the Irish Government,
Thomas Henry Burke, were murdered
in Phoenix Park in broad daylight.
Weapons used were amputating-
knives. Through one James Carey,
one of the chief contrivers of the
murders, who turned informer, 20 of
the “Invincibles” were arraigned;
five were hanged, and others sen-
tenced to long terms of imprisonment.
(Carey was himself murdered shortly
after, by one Patrick O’Donnell, sub-
sequently hanged.) Parnell had no-
thing to do with the murders (though
in April, 1887, the “Times” published
a facsimile letter of Parnell’s expressing
partial approval of the murders; but
the letter was proved to have been
forged by a needy adventurer named
Pigott, who shot himself on exposure).
After the murders Parnell declared that
“no act has ever been perpetrated in
our country.. . .that has so stained
the name of hospitable Ireland as this
cowardly and unprovoked assassina-
tion of a friendly stranger.” In fact,
Parnell gained nothing by the murders,
and seemed for a time to have lost
everything. In addition, the murders
hardened English feelings on the Irish
question, helped to split asunder the
Liberal party when Gladstone intro-
duced his first Home Rule Bill in 1886,
and made Home Rule for Ireland
impossible for many years.
# * * *
Some information on the old Trial
Bay (N.S.W.) jail ?
The reason for selecting the site
(near the Macleay River) was primarily
so that a granite breakwater could be
built to run one mile northward from
the northern end of Smoky Cape. The
building of the prison began in 1876,
and was finished 10 years later, at a
cost of £60,000. The external walls
of the building, supported by but-
tresses, were 18ft. high and 18in. thick,
and four watchtowers were erected.
The area enclosed was about two
acres. The main wing provided for
accommodating 186 prisoners, and
a second wing was also erected. As a
rule there were over 100 prisoners,
staffed by some 23 officers. The estab-
lishment was proclaimed as a prison
on March 4, 1886. In July, 1903, in
answer to a question in the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly, the Premier,
Sir John See, stated that, as “the
system of this prison does not fit in
with the modern ideas of penology....
the prison is very costly, and the
breakwater can be constructed much
more readily and efficiently by free
labor,” it was proposed to close the
prison. It wgs accordingly disestab-
lished on July 31, 1903.
* * * *
Account of the Mongol ruler
Genghis Khan ?
In 1175, at the age of 13, he suc-
ceeded his murdered father as ruler of
the nomad Mongols. Many of his sub-
jects were then in revolt, and it took
him many years before he regained his
father’s sway over the tribes. By
1203 he was powerful enough to call a
general convention, or kuriltai, 1203
being usually considered to mark
the beginning of the great Mongol
empire; however, it was not until 1206
that Genghis assumed the title of
Khan and as such issued his Yassa
or code of law. Then he began the
long period of military conquest that
has made his name famous. His first
objective was the rich territory of
China, and in eight years he conquered
northern China. The Mongol ex-
pected little mercy from his enemy;
he showed none. The inhabitants of
many Chinese cities were massacred
to the last infant. Genghis established
his court at Karakorum. The
Mongol hordes then turned west, and
in 1222 a Mongol host entered Europe.
By then Genghis’s empire stretched
from the China Sea to Europe. The
Great Khan died in 1227, when lead-
ing his troops against the Sung rulers
of South China. Genghis was un-
doubtedly one of the greatest warriors
of history. A brutal barbarian, cruel
and bloodthirsty, he yet governed his
vast empire ably. His empire, soon
after his death, broke up, one part of
it eventually falling to the fabled
Kublai Khan.
* * * •
A list of some of the more
prominent of British women painters
through the ages?
One of the first women painters in
England was Susannah Horenbout,
daughter of a Ghent artist; born in
1503, she was a well-known minia-
turist in the reign of Henry VIII.
Anne Carlisle, in the reign of Charles
I, was a portraitist. Another portrait-
painter, Mary Beale, was married to
Charles Beale the diarist, who has left
a record of her contribution to paint-
ing. Her “Abraham Cowley” is still
in the National Portrait Gallery. In
the days of Reynolds there were
Angelica Kauffmann, who • exhibited
82 pictures between 1769 and 1798,
and Mary Moser, a flower-painter:
these two were both elected to the
Royal Academy. In Victorian times
there was Elizabeth Thompson (later
Lady Butler), sister of Alice Meynell,
the poetess; she was famous for her
war-pictures, in particular “The Roll
Call,” a Crimean piece, “Rorke’s
Drift” and “Scotland for Ever,” the
first two of which were bought by
Queen Victoria. In this century there
have been Annie Louisa Swynnprton,
who, in 1922, when 78, was elected to
the Royal Academy, Dame Laura
Knight, also elected to the Forty (her
work mainly consists of pictures of
circus and ballet), Gwen John, sister
of Augustus John, Dod Proctor (who
made ,her mark with an Academy
exhibit in 1925, “The Model”), Dame
Ethel Walker, Mrs. Vanessa Bell and
Margaret Lindsay Williams, who de-
picted Lloyd George unveiling the
national memorial to Welshmen who
fell in World War I.
Brief Answers
T.F.W.: The geology of the Ather-
ton Tableland, with special reference
to each of the water-filled craters, is
dealt with in a report by F. Jardine,
published as Vol. 1 (1925) of the
“Transactions of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society of Australasia,
Queensland.” This also includes
Report No. 1 of the Great Barrier
Reef Committee, Brisbane, and will
fully answer the question S.S.:
(1) None of the southern lines is
any more the main line than the
others; the several lines, which criss-
cross, join, rejoin and branch off
again, are all considered “main lines.”
(2) Try Craigie Map Co., 16 Bridge-
street, or H. E. C. Robinson Pty., Ltd.,
221-3 George-street both Sydney.
F.B.: Not possible to give infor-
mation as to a satisfactory treatment
for the removal of the discoloration of
the water (“coffee-rock water”) with-
out knowing its cause, which can
only be ascertained by chemical ex-
amination. Consideration would have
to be given as to whether a suitable
economic treatment is available
J. 8.8.: (1) Sect is numerically small
in Australia. (2) None in particular,
but there are churches in several Syd-
ney suburbs, and in other State
capitals. (3) Maintenance of the
Church’s activities depends entirely on
voluntary contributions... .Old Sub-
scriber : Get in touch with the
R.S.S.A.I.L.A. in Australia or N.Z.,
who would be best able to advise you.


A Look Into Their Sydney Club
Among the Pioneers
By "IL VECCHIO"
Anniversary day—it
is Bligh Rebellion Day,
too —comes round for the
167th time this year.
In terms of human life that
represents five and a half
generations. Some Australian
families have numbered seven
generations, and perhaps more.
Others have spanned the period
in only three or four.
There are Australians today
whose great-grandfathers were
alive when there was not a
single white man in the con-
tinent.
A man died within the past
three years whose father, born
in 1801 —when the Australian
population was only 5000 all
told, including convicts —came
to Australia in 1817, when
settlement had extended no
farther west than the Bathurst
Plains and no farther south than
the Nepean, where the South
Devons the yesr before had
cleaned-up the native menace.
The pioneer families still sur-
vive—the issue of the little
bands that came in from 1788
onwards and held the colony
and developed it on a shoestring,
until the gold-days and the great
expansions of the wool-industry
brought immigrants in floods
and changed the land in the
course of a single lifetime from
the status of a few small settle-
ments sitting on the continental
rim to a country which, by
1880, held more than 2,800,000
people and 65,000,000 sheep.
It is astonishing that the
bond between the descendants
of early groups is not stronger
and closer than it is, for they
belong to a race somewhat
apart, and they survive as
a very vigorous growth, ex-
panding, very largely prosper-
obs, and infusing every walk of
life.
There are as yet none of the
great associations of pioneers
like those in America, but one
or two institutions have head-
quarters in Sydney, and Anni-
versary Day is celebrated by
them with especial fervor and
some ceremony.
One is the Women Pioneers’
Society, its rooms lined with
of the mothers of the
Nation; another is the Aus-
tralasian Pioneers’ Club, which,
from a mere group meeting in
an odd rented room has
grown in the 45 years since its
foundation to be one of the
great social clubs of Sydney,
seated in and owning the old
building of nostalgic memory
for many seniors, Paris House,
and boasting a large and vigor-
ous membership and a full
dining-room daily, in which
may be seen samplings of what
the generations have done to
the earliest immigrants.
The Pioneers’ Club admits to
full-membership direct des-
cendants of officers and men
who sailed under Captain Cook
during his expeditions to Aus-
tralia, those whose forebears—
in the forces, civil service, mer-
cantile marine or landholders—
came to N. Wales and
Tasmania before the end
of 1825; Victoria, South
Australia and Western Australia,
1845 ; Queensland, 1849 ; New
Zealand, 1855; Norfolk Island,
1857; Fiji, 1878; Polynesia
generally, 1879; and New
Guinea, 1887.
The club’s articles of associa-
tion also permit it to accept up
to the total of 150 persons out-
side these ranges, so that it has
been infused, in addition, with
about 70 judges, leading
barristers and professional and
commercial men of standing, a
good many of whom almost
qualify by time for admission as
pioneers.
It is somewhat difficult to
draw a line in pioneering be-
tween, for instance, somebody
who came in 1826 and a Ryrie
who qualified by coming in
November, 1825, or a Windeyer
whose family came in 1828 and
a Forbes whose ancestor, as the
first Chief Justice, came in to a
salute of 13 guns in 1824.
With the earlier families this
problem often settles itself
through marriage, since the
descent does not need to be in
the male line. Indeed it is
astonishing how many of the
hundreds of members of the
club descend through the female
line but remember with rever-
ence their original male ancestor.
A glance through the mem-
bership-list gives an interesting
idea of the hardy ability of
families to survive the almost
unbelievable hardships of the
early days.
It was perhaps appropriate
that the club should have been
founded in 1910 by a descendant
of Lieutenant George Johnston,
of the Marines, a fighting
soldier with many wounds from
service in the American War of
Independence # and in West
Africa, and who was the first
free man to set foot on the
shore of Sydney Cove. James
Ruse, a convict from Bodmin,
who was the first landholder
and who sowed the first grain,
swore in 1827, in a court action,
that he carried Johnston ashore.
The family thus has a special
interest in the two great events
of January 26, for Johnston led
the Bligh rebellion.
The first name in the mem-
bership-list today is that of a
man descended from Lieutenant
William Cox, of Clarendon,
one of the two or three pioneers
of Merino wool, the builder of
the road across the Blue Moun-
tains in 1814-15, and one of the
two great pioneers of sheep in
the west.
Almost next to him comes one
who traces his ancestry to
Lieutenant Henry Ball, of the
little Supply. It was Ball who
brought Phillip to Sydney Cove
on January 25, 1788, to land
next day at the head of the Cove,
and who afterwards, in the
course of a voyage for provi-
sions to Batavia in 1790, in his
tiny cockleshell of a tender
which already had mtfde the
long voyage from England,
became the first captain to
circumnavigate Australia.
There is also a descendant of
the first steamboat captain in
Australian history Biddulph,
of the Sophia.
We had no steam in Maitland then,
And none did we desire,
But Biddulph out from England came
And brought us the Sophia.
The offspring, too, of David
Allan, the second Commissary
of New South Wales, are there:
he belonged to Macquarie’s day.
One of his descendants in the
club is a pioneer of New Guinea
and its goldfields, and is a
distinguished soldier of two
wars. His name is followed by
that of an Allman whose ances-
tor founded Port Macquarie,
grouped with an Antill, of whom
there are many co-relations in
the club, the original being Mac-
quarie’s aide de camp from the
old 2nd Battalion of the Black
Watch.
The Antills link American
history to Australian, since they
trace back to old Governor
Colden, of New York. They
also link the campaign against
Tippoo Sahib (at the climax of
which their original Australian
member carried the colors of the
73rd Regiment into the breach
at Seringapatam in 1799) with
Romani and Katia and Bir El
Abd and with Major-General
“Bull” Antill, who led a brigade
in World War I.
The same link also connects
the first vice-regal crossing of the
Blue Mountains in 1815 (in
which the original Australian
Antill took part) with the first
Redex race round Australia, in
which one of the later members
of the family, and of the
Pioneers’ Club, was the peren-
nial centre of a large ball of
dust.
There are Angases from South
Australia in the club, descend-
ants of John Howard, pioneer
and founder of the great S.A.
Shorthorn herd, with its noble
Waterloos. And there are
Archers from Gracemere, the
lovely pioneer station of Central
Queensland which has provided
the country with great pas-
toralists, with directors of
the Mt. Morgan mine, and even
with a politician of standing on
the female side of the modern
family, which stems from Sir
R. R. MacKenzie, Bt., an early
pioneer and Premier of Queens-
land, after whom the Mackenzie
River is named.
The Arndells are naturally
represented extemigfely in the
club. Their Pilgrim Father was
an assistant-surgeon in the First
Fleet, whose name appears in
the annals of the Bligh sup-
porters on the day of the rebel-
lion. He was among those who
sat at Bligh’s table on the fate-
ful evening of January 26, 1808,
a few hundred yards from
where the modern representatives
of the family sit at table at
luncheon in the club, and was
finishing his second glass of port
when the news came in that
Johnston and his New South
Wales Corps were marching to
tuck of drum.
Tom Arndell was a pioneer in
more senses*than one, for, out-
side ex-convicts and marines,
and the old German superin-
tendent Schaeffer, he was the
first grantee of land in Aus-
tralia the first “gentleman
settler” in the continent.
Badgerys’ blood is plentiful—
the . great old settlers and
organisers whose names appear
in all the early records of South
Creek and of the development
of the great pastoral firms of
Sydney. The signature of one
of them appears sixth on the
famous requisition written by
John Macarthur to Johnston to
arrest Bligh. The name of
another appeared nearly 140
years later in the list of the
honored lost of Borneo in
World War 11.
All the leading signatories to
the Macarthur requisition have
descendants in the register. John
Macarthur himself has some.
The current older generation
of the seed of the man who
pioneered the Merino sheep and
the marketing of Australian
wool, who tramped the roads of
France with a packhorse, study-
ing the olive and the vine for in-
troduction to New South Wales,
is in January, 1955, occupied
with the command of the 2nd
Division, C.M.F., and with the
pioneering of homogenised milk
and the roto-milker.
His son, incidentally, repre-
sents not merely the sixth genera-
tion of Macarthur blood in Aus-
tralia and the fifth generation
of Onslows, but the sixth genera-
tion of a family which has given
continuous military service to
the country since 1790.
The descendants of Gregory
Blaxland, who crossed the Blue
Mountains in 1813, and who
signed the 1808 requisition with
the rest, are members —one is an
old servant of the C.S.R., now
retired to fishing and history.
The Balmains are on the
members’-list, the continuers of
the clan of the surgeon who
was among the select little band
that took part in the celebration
of the initial landing on the hot
January day in 1788, and who
later, in 1796, tried hard to per-
suade John Macarthur to fight
him. As it was, he lived only a
few more years ; and Macarthur
and Lieutenant Ball, of the
Supply, were the only two Aus-
tralians present at his funeral
when he was buried in St.
George’s churchyard in London
in November, 1803.
There are, naturally, Bells,
descendants of Ensign Archi-
bald, who arrived with eight
children in 1806, and who, as
commandant of the main guard,
made the first military move
against Bligh in the rebellion.
His v son took the first cattle
across the rough Bulga track to
the Hunter, and there are a lot
of the family in the club with
addresses still around the Hunter
Valley, as all over the east of
the continent. The Bell Line
across the Blue Mountains
perpetuates their name.
. Next come the_Bowmans. It
was John Bowman, of Green-
hills, who, when the news of
the victory of Trafalgar reached
the colony, took somebody’s
satin wedding-dress and used it
to make a flag with a coat-of-
arms painted on it, with the
kangaroo and the emu as sup-
porters, the basic original of
the Australian coat-of-arms. It
still exists in the Mitchell
Library. And round the Single-
ton district, good cattle-breeders
and farmers, the Bowmans
today flourish in force.
There are Gidley Kings,
descendants of the Governor; a
few Blighs, in the female line ;
plenty of Cowpers from the old
first incumbent of St. Phillip’s
(it was originally spelt that
way); Jamisons from the gallant
and enterprising Sir John, of
Regentville, where Henry
Parkes worked as a laborer.
There are Rouses, whose fore-
bear worked with Greenway on .
most of his historic buildings ;
and there are Oakeses.
It was Francis Oakes, the
missionary, Chief Constable at
Parramatta, who galloped out
along the dark road to Parra-
matta on the night of the Bligh
rebellion carrying the news. His
wife, Sarah Small, reputed the
first white child born of free
parents in the Australian con-
tinent, lived so long that Major-
General Charles Cox, who died
in 1940, remembered seeing her
sitting before her cottage in
Church-street, Parramatta. Some
of the Fairfax family in the club
derive from the pair.
There are men of the line of
Lawson, the explorer ; of Oxley ;
of Cordeaux, of the Cordeaux
Dam; of William Broughton,
Macquarie’s supporter, whose
farm used to be the southern
outpost down by Appin; of
Redfern, the first medico to
practise vaccination in N. S.
Wales, and who had been sent
out as a boy of 19 for having
told the mutineers in H.M.S.
Standard at the Nore to “be
more united.”
There are Humes descended
from Hamilton, who enchanted
the natives because he was red-
headed, and who, as a boy, made
one of the first penetrations
south to Marulan.
There are many descendants
of Richard Fitzgerald, the worthy
pioneer of the Hawkesbury, an
Irishman sent out for some
political offence who lived to be
the friend of judges and Lieu-
tenant-Governors.
George Molle, Lieutenant-
Governor in Macquarie’s day
and commander of the 46th
Regiment, has his quota.
The great Cribb family of
Ipswich (Q.) is embodied in the
Davidsons; Sir Alfred was
president of the club. And there
are the Russell Frenches, the
Dibbs clan and the Garlings
(from Frederick, one of the first
two free solicitors, who was
captured by a privateer on his
way to Australia). Also a Rae,
descended from the first town-
clerk in Australia and first rail-
way-commissioner.
There are Blomfields from the
48th Regiment, and helpings of
the blood of Captain Richard
Brooks (of the Rose and of Den-
ham Court) and his many
daughters ; of the Wilds, of the
48 th Regiment, pioneers of the
Camden-Bowral country; and
of the Lockyers, associated with
the foundation of Western Aus-
tralia and the exploration of
coastal Queensland (where their
name sits on a rich farming dis-
trict) and with the Australian
Comforts Fund of the First
World War and the Inter-State
Commission.
Also there are Gileses, South
Australian explorers ; Newlands,
who date back to 1839, in the
same State ; the Horderns, who
go back to the 1820’s ; Milsons,
of Milson’s Point; the Rowleys
—Thomas Rowley pastured on
his farm at Petersham the first
Merinos brought over by Cap-
tain Henry Waterhouse, R.N.,
from the Cape of Good Hope
in the Reliance in 1797.
There are Pipers, from Cap-
tain John Macarthur’s second in
the duel in which he nearly
killed the poor old bonhomme
Paterson, in 1801 ; Hallorans,
from the LL.D., who was the
preceptor of Gifford, Lord
Chancellor ; many Marsdens ;
a Federal M.P. who derives from
Dixon, who, in 1815, set up the
first steam-engine in the coun-
try (Dixon-street, near the
engine’s old site behind the
Trades Hall in Sydney, is named
’ after him).
There is a colonel whom the
present writer first met in Japan
in Kure, and whose ancestor was
Charles Whalan, Macquarie’s
beloved orderly and friend, the
last person to whom he said
farewell when he left Australia
in 1822.
There are Lethbridges, born
of the sea-trade and the pastoral-
industry ; Threlkelds, from the
great early authority on the
aborigines; Simeon Lord’s
sprigs, one of them the club’s
tallest member; .and Rileys,
from Alexander, son of a free-
man bookseller of London,
Paterson’s secretary in the inter-
regnum after the Bligh rebel-
lion, and one of the three enter-
prising businessmen who gave
the country the famous Rum
Hospital (of which the existing
o Continued on page 34)


S
■V
The name is
(D'Calloms
m
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC23/3.2
SPORTING NOTIONS
The A.J.C.’s Challenge Stakes
and Anniversary Handicap are
the main features of the coming
weekend - holiday racing in
Sydney. Last January Tarien
had a narrow win over Nagpuni
and Karendi in the Challenge,
with Raconteur, the former
Perth champion, last. Raconteur
had gone amiss, and it was his
last race.
Oversight downed 5-to-4
favorite Carioca in last year’s
Anniversary Handicap, with
Euphrates third. That Anni-
versary was decided at \\ mile ;
the race reverts to its usual
distance of 1 2 mile next Monday.
The Challenge Stakes seems
fairly open, but Gay Vista might
win from Vistaed and Birdwood.
Persian Link is selected to
win the Anniversary Handicap
from Oxley and Silence.
. j • •
Several Challenge and Anni-
versary aspirants raced at Rand-
wick on Saturday, when
winners included Mary Ellen
and Ace Pilot, both weighted for
the longer race. Of the pair,
Ace Pilot, who’s on The minimum
(7st.), could be expected to put
up the best show. Gay Vista
won his second race in succes-
sion (he had easily won the
Carrington Stakes last, month)
when he ran to the lead at the
start and scored well in the
six-furlongs Banjo Paterson
Handicap. He’s a top-line
sprinter, and on figures and
form looks a fairly safe wager
for the Challenge. He won on
Saturday with 9.4, and drops to
9st.
The Jack Green stable almost
brought off a heavy plunge on
Kev Mar in the Henry Lawson
Handicap ; it was only in the
final few strides that Mary
Ellen, hard ridden by Jack
Thompson, got up to down the
fast pacemaker by a nose. It
was Kev Mar’s first attempt at
a mile and a quarter. The
former Queenslander has shown
marked consistency—placed at
his last eight starts ; three wins,
four seconds and a third. It
was Mary Ellen’s first success
at the distance.
A likely type of two-year-old
was produced in the Juvenile
Novice at Randwick, and it may
not be long before he wins. He
is Shirlard, third to speedy Fran
Mac, who has now won at his
last two starts. Shirlard won a
Randwick barrier-trial in the
spring, but hadn’t raced until
Saturday. He is by Midstream
(imp.) from Happy Breed by
Double Remove (imp.). Happy
Breed has the Carbine blood in
her make-up.
In six starts before last Satur-
day, Queensberry, winner of the
A.J.C. Three-year-old Maiden
Handicap at Randwick, had
started at odds varying from
250 to 1 to 50 to 1, and his best
was a third to Blazing Star at
the same track on January 3.
On Saturday he was well fancied,
and won with, something in
hand, coming from the middle of
the field at the home turn. The
gelding is by Delville Wood
(imp.) from Judy O’Shea, who
traces back to Wallace, best son
of Carbine.
Walu may have thought he
was back in Melbourne when he
trotted to the starting-gates in
the rain at Randwick, with a
wet track underfoot. He revelled
in the conditions, to win his
first Sydney race, the Adam
Lindsay Gordon Handicap. Bill
Cook’s riding suited Walu, who
had solid backing from 10 to 1
to 7’s. His trainer, Sid Nicholls,
hadn’t won a Randwick race for
about eight years.
Allocate, who bobbed up at
33 to 1 in Caulfield’s Deakin
Handicap on Saturday, is still
trained by Sydney mentor Jack
Stanton. The winner was taken
to Melbourne to try to make a
hurdler of him, and that’s still
the aim.
Improving on two recent
seconds, Melbourne two-year-
old Ellerdale scored a convinc-
ing win in the Caulfield King-
ston Stakes, starting second-
favorite. The colt is a son of a
New Zealand sire, Red Mars
(imp.), a son of Hyperion. Red
Mars sired Red Jester, who
came to Sydney and won the
A.J.C. All-aged Stakes. Eller-
dale is closely related to
Channel Rise (A.J.C. Derby),
and Cultured (V.R.C. New-
market). His dam, Shining Ring,
is by Ringmaster (imp.) from
Burnish by Pombal.
• t * •
Despatch Case (imp.) has had
a few smart winners, his best
being Diplomacy. Another of
his progeny, Cloaked, was
among the Caulfield winners,
scoring in the Griffith Handicap
for three-year-olds (one mile).
Cloaked was ridden by appren-
tice D. Cootes, who is inden-
tured to Sydney trainer Bill
Williamson. The gelding *is
from an unraced mare, Gloomy,
by Blank (imp.).
Ellerslie, crack weight-for-age
and handicap performer of
recent seasons —he won 15 races
and was 29 times in minor places
from 93 starts, earning £21,195
in stakes —met his death while
schooling for hurdling in
Adelaide. He was nine years
old. Once he was an idol of
Melbourne race-crowds.
• • • •'
Sydney buyers paid the highest
prices for New Zealand’s
yearlings, top being 4500gns. for
the colt by Gabador (imp.) from
Sierra by Balloch (imp.). Most
likely he will be trained at Rose-
hill and will carry the French
Echo colors. Dam of the
youngster, Sierra, was a smart
winner in New Zealand, and is
closely related to Defaulter, a
good winner both in the
Dominion and here. Randwick
trainer Frank Dalton was final
bidder, at 3500gn5., for the black
colt by Gold Nib (imp.) from
High Glory by His Highness.
Dalton has in his stables top-
class two-year-old Aboukir, also
by Gold Nib. Altogether, Aus-
tralian buyers at the sales made
124 purchases for 91,330gn5.
At the latest Canterbury Park
fixture a brilliant filly from Bris-
bane, Lady Adstock, won the
Second Two-year-old Handicap
easing up after being last away
from the starting-gates. It was
her first race-start and the gates
puzzled her. A tall filly with
an easy action, she should be
worth seeing at her next appear-
ance. She is by Adstock (imp.),
a son of Hyperion, from Blanco
by Blandford; her dam, Valcor,
is a Corban (imp.) mare from
Syplha by Bullhead (imp.).
Any racegoer who fails to
collecting a winning bet within
“Lovely Weather —for ducks!”
a month surely doesn’t deserve
to be paid. Anyway,' under a
new A.J.C. rule no bookmaker
will be compelled to pay out on
a bet unless it is collected within
that time.
* * *
The three Australian Test-
selectors are all knowledgeable
fellows, with actual achievement
behind them (one the greatest
runmaker of all time), and all
with plenty of administrative
and selecting experience. The
three in conference should have
a fair idea of the combination
at the moment most likely to
win a Test.
j
After two successive defeats,
changes were indicated: though
the margin of defeat in the
second Test wasn’t much (39
runs), and'it was level-pegging
up to the last day in the third.
Burke for Hole was obvious:
Burke may have made a big
difference in Melbourne. Not
so obvious the preferring of.
Maddocks to Langley. The
South Australian is not spec-
tacular, but is most dependable.
Maddocks, however, is not far
behind Langley, and is the better
bat—this, of course, should only
influence selection when the
’keepers are of roughly equal
ability behind the sticks.
Langley gave a batting reply to
his omission with a well-made 53
(top-score) in S.A.’s first innings
against the M.C.C.
The dropping of Morris, up
till this Test the only man who’d
played in every post-war
England-Australia Test, was not
unexpected. Since his masterly
153 in the first Test (which laid
the foundation for Australia’s
big score and thus its win), he’s
been out of touch. Still, he’s
always done well in Adelaide
(122 and 124 not-out in the
1946-47 Test, and 206, after a
similar run of outs, in 1950-51),
and perhaps he could have been
given one more try. What may
have weighed in McDonald’s
favor: Morris is slowing-up in
the field.
As he walked-out after his
second failure in the recent
N.S.W.-Victoria Shield match
McDonald must have felt that
he’d lost all chance of Test-
selection. But the selectors
looked pasf those two efforts, to
McDonald’s known pluck and
proper temperament. He’s got
his faults ; and in some parts
he’s had a bad “press” because
he “nibbles.” But that’s a com-
mon failing—or there’d be no
need for slip-fieldsmen at all.
And McDonald can bat; in
Adelaide, too, he’s done well —
154 there in the fourth Test
against South Africa and 229
against South Australia last year.
Skipper lan Johnson and
Benaud, the two spinners, must
also have been considered for
the axe-treatment. Johnson,
however, has done a good job
of captaincy, and has handled
his bowlers well. The best avail-
able Australian spinner, he
hasn’t done anything outstanding
as a bowler (though he took
3-46 and 2-38 in Brisbane, and
wasn’t really wanted in Mel-
bourne). With the bat he
wound-up the huge score in Bris-
bane on the right note —swing-
ing at every ball; and in Mel-
bourne, in the first innings, he
played a captain’s knock for 33
not-out, to give Australia, if not
victory, at least a first-innings
lead. He’s needed in the team.
Benaud has never done in
Tests what his performances in
other grades of cricket lead one
to expect. In Tests against Eng-
land he’s made 118 runs at an
average of 11.8, and has taken
7-342, at a cost of just on 49 a
wicket. Not marvellous figures.
Benaud should perhaps give up
thoughts of being an all-
rounder: concentrate on his
batting and confine his bowling,
as does Burke, pretty well to
grade-cricket.
“Mid-on”: The critics have
been raging because Morris was
dropped; but, considering the
roasting they’ve been giving him
recently and for several years
past, I think they’d have been
equally annoyed if he had been
picked.
• • • *
The first game in which
Statham played when he was
flown out, with Tatter sail, as a
replacement in 1950-51, was
against the South Australian
Country XI (at Renmark). He
took 1-16 and 2-18. This year,
in the equivalent fixture (at Mt.
Gambier), Statham in the
second innings took 6-3, all
clean-bowled! He has come on
a lot in the last four years.
Apropos, it was a South Aus-
tralian Country bowler who had
the really sensational figures in
1950-51 medium-fast Lou
Curtis, who took 9-60 in Eng-
land’s one innings. Curtis sub-
sequently was given one Shield
game, but couldn’t do any good
at all.
• • • •
Denis Compton has made
several centuries in Adelaide —
the latest his brilliant 182 against
S.A. on Saturday. In the first
M.C.C.-S.A. game Compton,
just off the plane from England,
made 113 (in a total of 246), an
innings described by Hutton as
“one of the best I’ve seen Denis
play for a long time.” His best
effort in Adelaide was his two
centuries (147 and 103 not-out)
in the fourth 1946-47 Test —the
match in which Morris also
made a century in each innings.
“C.”: India and Pakistan now
have an agreement under which
their respective cricket addicts
can freely cross the border for
the current Test-matches there-
abouts. Hitherto any passports
across the dfviding-line were
next-door to unobtainable.
* * *
Sprint swimmer Jon Henricks
is still record-breaking. In a
heat of the 220yds. at the N.S.W.
championships he knocked
I.6sec. off his Australian record
(new time, 2min. 7.45ec.). A
couple of days later he swam
even faster (2min. 6.55ec.), to
win the final. For a long (55yds.)
pool this would rank as a world-
record, but there’s no official
world-record for the distance.
The Australian record was
twice bettered, too, in the N.S.W.
1650yds. title, though by different
swimmers. In a heat Jim Barr,
of Newcastle, swam 19min.
7.Bsec., 16.7 sec. better than the
previous time. In the final 18-
year-old Gary Winram, better
known as a surfer, became the
first Australian to break 19min.
in Australia (18min. 58.95ec.).
During his swim he also broke
the Australian record for 1500
metres, 18min. 53.35ec. (John
Marshall swam the 1500 in
18min. 26sec. in America in
1951.)
* * •
Within a week of breaking the
Australian six-mile running
record, Victorian Dave Stephens
• set a new two-mile record —in
bare feet. For a race at a
twilight meet at St. Kilda,
Stephens only decided to start
at the last minute, at the instance
of previous record-holder Les
Perry, who finished fourth,
Perry made his record (Bmin.
55.25ec.) last month; Stephens
took 3.3 sec. off that time.
* * *
Ross Jenkins was said to be
another Colin Bell (both Bell and
Jenkins ■ have been local
champions at Moree, N.S.W.),
and when Jenkins stopped
Samoan Fossi Schmidt in the
third round at Sydney Sports
Ground in December, his sup-
porters claimed he would soon
be heavyweight champion of
Australia. But Tongan Kitione
Lave’s right swings were more
than Ross could cope with at
Leichhardt. When the first bell
let them loose, the Tongan
rushed out of his corner and
connected pronto with a right
swing to the chin that dropped
Jenkins, who was so staggered,
not to say stunned, by this harsh
treatment that he had no defence
against a coigple of repeat doses,
being hit and hitting the canvas
so hard that ref. Jack Burns gave
it to Tonga on a t.k.o. Each
weighed 14.3., A brother of Ross,
Les Jenkins (11.12), did better
in a supporting four-rounder,
stopping Barney Goode (11.2)
not much more than a minute
after the first bell.


On a New Serial MS.
Bladen's “WALKABOUT"
By CECIL MANN
Anyone with a touch of
Sherlock Holmes in his
make-up should be able
to build quite a tidy stack
of deduction on the following
title-page (given complete, as it
appears in the MS.):
LAZY WALKABOUT
C The story of a journey from
Perth to Adelaide.)
\
“Breathes there the man with
soul so dead....?”
“White man allatime lazy fella ;
him allatime sit down walk-
about.” ( Comment of an
aborigine at Menzies, W.A., on
seeing his first pushbike.)
That’s the lot; and the first
thing even the amateur Sherlock
would note is that there’s a rather
important omission. Here the
noviciate sleuth might perhaps
wish to stop, and look back, and
read it through again, and see
for himself what the omission
is; and maybe the more of ah
egotist he himself is the sooner
he’ll hit on it.
And, of course, by now he
has it; and being bent on adding
yet another masterly piece of
deduction to his friend Watson’s
case-book, he isn’t likely to
brush it off as a mere oversight
of no significance. Oversight
there on the MS. title-page it
may be—that the author has left
the author out; but that this
really is very significant has in
the MS. something over 100,000
words of proof. For (as The
Bulletin serial of the so-far
Peter Bladen.
unpublished MS. —with Unk
White sketchbook illustrations—
will demonstrate) if there is one
single thing more than any other
that that sum-total of words
proves it is that Peter Bladen is
here altogether more interested
in documenting his Australia
than he is in parading Peter
Bladen.
And that is saying a great deal
already about the MS., when it is
added that this is, of necessity,
a first-person narration.
He, Peter Bladen, is its lead-
ing first-person character, and a
colorful one, with his beard and
his bike and his own sort of
personal outlook and interests ;
but what you are more conscious
of as you read him—apart from
the quality of his writing, of his
clear prose, which is, after all,
only another vehicle for getting
somewhere, like his bike, though
an easier and a better vehicle
than the grid—what you are
really conscious of is always
that which he is seeing and hear-
ing, and feeling, as he goes along.
And then —more positive
ground for deduction —we have
what the title-page actually does
say. Elementary, of course.
At any rate, the quoted
comment of the aborigine com-
pletely explains the Lazy
Walkabout title. Perhaps it says
The church with a
chimney (near Port
Lincoln, S.A .)
a little more ; maybe a lot more.
For one thing, it signposts a
sense of humor, and of a certain
kind. It is a sunny kind—the
kind you find breaking out and
astonishing and delighting you
in Douglas Stewart lyrics of
nature observation (there’s one
of them, about the four famous
cicadas, in next week’s Seventy-
fifth Anniversary Number of
The Bulletin, wherein, too, the
Bladen serial begins).
The Bladen humor, like
Stqwart’s (there’s no doubt about
the quality of it in these poets
when they’ve been blessed with
it), is in what is seen,
or how it’s seen,
almost more than in
anything that’s said.
The title, Lazy Walk-
about, is a sufficient
signpost to it, even
without the explana-
tory aborigine.
And, as the novice
Sherlock has perhaps
deduced, the aborigine
is not there for that
reason only. He is
there, in fact (and you
might say the title he
provides is there for
the same reason),
because Bladen has a
, tremehdous wa/mth of
friendly fellow-feeling
for his native fellow-
Australians. He is
sincere about it, and
he is convincing.
Heaven knows there
has been a fair
amount of unconvinc-
ing sentimental tosh
turned out on this
same subject: those
who, like the present
writer, have been a
bit nauseated by the cult, might
find Bladen as completely con-
verting them : he’d have made a
fine missionary; maybe that’s
what he is.
Not that aborigines are any
great part of his MS. scheme of
things: they have their natural
place, along with the rest, in the
documentation of his Australia,
which, again significantly, he
sub-titles “The story of a journey
from Perth to Adelaide.” For
that is precisely what it is—a
story. With a beginning: his
native Perth. And an ending:
Adelaide, a living loveliness as
he looks down on it, and goes
down to it, from the hills. And,
as a middle, all (or, at least, a
good deal of all) that one who
sets out cheerfully from Perth
to do that trip on a pushbike
might happen to see and learn
about in between.
He doesn’t, it should be said,
push the grid all that way, nor
anything like it. Like a sensible
fellow, he gets off his bike (in
the less freewheel sense of the
phrase) as often as opportunity
offers; and if opportunity doesn’t
offer he waits for it —even for a
week, or longer ; even sitting day
after day on a street bench wait-
ing, with one of his dog-friends-
by - the - way for his daily
company, one that thoroughly
enjoys fighting all the other dogs
for his own, and Bladen’s,
entertainment.
This getting off his bike Bladen
has personally worked out in
these terms: Total distance
covered, 3482 miles; distance
travelled by truck, 1094 miles;
by car, 694 miles; by mail-bus,
438 miles ; by train, 284 miles ;
by van, 108 miles; by utility, 76
miles; by “tramway” (at
Whyalla and thereabouts), 35
miles; and, “on and off,” by
bicycle, 753 miles.
“O monstrous! but one half-
pennyworth of bread to this
intolerable deal of sack! ” Well,
maybe so . . . but to present even
lazier walkabouter 753 miles still
seems a monstrous amount of
pushbiking.
In any case, that engaging
batch of figures might be a little
misleading. It might suggest
speed . . . and if there’s one
thing Peter Bladen here definitely
is not it’s a young man in a
hurry. He has an Arabia Deserta
contentment in getting
there eventually. The
first two words on that
title-page of his mean
what they say. He
could have borrowed
his text from Steven-
son : to travel hopefully
is a better thing than to
arrive.
As it is, he borrows
it from another Scot
(the greatest of them);
and there it is, complet-
ing this decidedly
eloquent title - page—
and once again most
significant. Straight out of the
heart of Scott himself, via the
Last Minstrel:
“Breathes there the man with soul so
dead....?”
The most amateur Sherlock
knows where that leads to:
Who never to himself hath said,
“This is my own, my native land ”
And that, of course, leads on
to whatever amount of deduc-
tion any Sherlock cares to make,
about Bladen’s book, and about
Bladen. He will know, certainly,
that here is an author who is not
out to roast the country, even if
it does roast him a bit, in spots.
He will know that, whatever this
book may be, it is no contribu-
tion to that ill-begot and worse-
nourished monstj-osity of Hate
Literature, of which this country
of ours, God knows, has by
now surely suffered enough.
Here, too, perhaps, it should
be said that Bladen’s downright
liking for the place—which is,
after all, a liking for life —has a
good, wide background to it;
that is, before setting off on this
particular Walkabout.
You can feel from his nature
and outlook—as both are well-
enough revealed on this MS.
title-page, and very completely
in the 400-odd foolscap pages of
the MS. —that, though he’s still
a Sandgroper at heart, he looks
on all Australia as where he
belongs. This greater walkabout
began, it seems, a few years
back, when he was four-or-so
and his folk used to make
pilgrimages across the Bight in
the old Katoomba, to Mel-
bourne, to see his mother’s
people there.
As a 10-year-old he was the
youngest member of the Y.A.L.
excursion, under the care of
“Boss” Simons, over to Sydney
for the opening of the Harbor
Bridge—-an event, as it turned
out, which may have whetted
Bladen’s keenness for the pic-
turesque : this is present through-
out, in scenes, humans, incidents,
places, or in the gems of history
behind all these, which make his
Lazy Walkabout a sort of
vicarious personal wandering
around a country where, you
never know, you might pick up a
little nugget at any time, or find
rubies glowing in the altar-
candlesticks in an old-time
church, or maybe in the bottles
of a winery.
Once before this he started off
on a puShbike trip, from Perth
to Albany, and was only 300
miles from Perth on the way back
when he caught the train. So,
at least, he did know how to sit
on a grid when he set out on
Lazy Walkabout, not that that,
stopped him from biting the dust.
Mighty hard stuff, dust, as tasted
through the necklace of the
twisted front-spokes of a bike.
In the war, as an Army sig.,
he was about the “roadless but
hospitable” country inland from
Carnarvon, and in other parts.
Then he got into the Navy, as a
coder, and, if he didn’t see the
world, he certainly was able to
see plenty of the part of it he
likes best, spending some time
Met at Anlaby (S.A.), one of this
pair of Bladen’s friends-by-the-way
formerly belonged to a Westralian Gov-
ernor and became famed in Perth for
getting lost.
based in each of the States,
including a year ashore at
Darwin, and with six months
also in Borneo.
Afterwards he got back on the
grid again, putting in a couple
of months at Cape Nelson light-
house, and pushing the bike
along the coast road to Mel-
bourne. Then—and maybe this
is as significant even as what’s in
the MS. title-page here discussed
—he went over to Lord Howe
Island for a month or two, and
stayed two years.
Then he worked for a while
in a factory in Sydney; pushed
the bike and chugged a motor
brother of it around places like
Wagga and Mildura; and, his
walkabouting eventually getting
him back to Perth again, he
went for his B.A. at the Uni.
there, with an extra
year spent taking
Honors in English,
meanwhile holding
down a job as orderly
at Royal Perth Hospital,
his duties including a
good deal of morgue
work—an occupation
he doesn’t recommend.
At the Perth Uni-
versity one of his finds
was Thoreau, who
thought very much the
same about America,
or his Walden part of America,
as Bladen thinks of Australia at
large.
In the briefest outline: he
goes on his Lazy Walkabout up
from Perth into the goldfields’
country—Southern Cross, Cool-
gardie, Kalgoorlie and there-
abouts —finding “nuggets” of
his own, historical and contem-
porary; thence down to Norse-
man ; a break further down at
the seaside-resort of Esperance;
back to Norseman, and so
across, skirting the Bight, to
such places as Eucla, Ceduna,
Elliston, Port Lincoln, and up,
skirting Spencer’s Gulf, to
Why alia, Port Augusta; to
Quorn, and then down to Port
Pirie, and Gawler, and to
Adelaide, and journey’s end;
with, of course, many of the
many other places along the
walkabout.
And, very importantly, there
is what he is learning as he goes
Jack McLeod, the
Quiet Stockman of
“We of the Never
Never” (met at
Angaston, S,A.)
along; what he is finding out by
his own pretty competent sleuth-
ing. He is interested in places,
but —hunting through old heaps
of records in a public-building
or a newspaper-office, in the
goldfields’ country or elsewhere ;
or turning over church-records,
or bundles in old stables at the
back of a police-station—what
he is most interested in is the
human story: the ones he is
meeting in this place and that,
and their forerunners.
Who (as just an instance or
two) was John Horrocks, and
precisely what did he do? Who
was Richard Thelwall Maurice,
and how does the commonly
accepted, and not very favorable,
legend of him square with the
actuality—with what can be
learned of his character and life
and actions from scarcely known
records and from his own unpub-
lished writings in letters and the
like?
Though you naturally have
Peter Bladen himself there in
view all the time —and can
learn more than a little about
him as well —the ones that seem
to stay clearest in the mind are
the scores of early characters,
and particularly the present-day
ones, such as the Three Worthies
of Cunderdin, the good lady of
a hotel who never charges “the
Cloth” anything, the truck-
drivers and others who give
the wanderer a lift, a missionary,
an English minister with a vast
parish, or people who keep
private wild-life sanctuaries, or
make strange and beautiful
collections (of shells and so
forth) or who live, as one of them
does, at a lonely station and
wonderfully records in paintings
the wild-life there, some of which
might not otherwise be recorded.
Bladen has special qualifica-
tions for this sort of documenta-
tion of his Australia: he is a
Gate en route.
very good observer; he has a
poet’s flair for scene; a good
hand at putting down character ;
a humorous outlook on what’s
going on about him; a sense of
history. What were these places
like before? What are they like
now? He is present-day Aus-
tralian ; and, above all, he’s fond
of the place.


GROCERIES
PHOBUCE
r—
m
■*•::
In every way you save more with
HOLDEN UTILITY
Holden Utility’s low initial cost sets
the pattern for a life-time of overall
economy. There are all these good
reasons for Holden’s low cost of
operation— • Long life 6 cylinder
power and time-saving 21 h.p. per-
formance • 30 m.p.g. economy as
reported by owners • Dependability
proven in the hands of more than
170,000 Holden owners • Nation-
wide availability of low-cost, factory
guaranteed parts and service •
Generous capacity for a profitable
load • Easy handling and a good
lock for convenience in traffic •
High resale value.
In addition to all these proven
economy features there’s the prestige-
building good looks of Holden and
really roomy comfort for three.
* Convenient hire purchase arrangements
are available through GMAC—General
Motors’ own hire purchase company.
The combination of all these
benefits is why Australian utility
buyers make Holden their first
choice.
In view of the heavy demand for
Holden Utility, we suggest you call
in and place an order as soon as
possible.
HOLDEN*
AUSTRALIA’S OWf>l UTILITY
LIST PRICE £B5O PLUS TAX
AUSTRALIA’S OWN
PANEL VAN
LIST PRICE £865 PLUS TAX
* Registered trade mark
* There are two Air Chief car radios
specially designed for Holden.
YI4B
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives—if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
PEACEFUL COEXISTENCE?
With East and West both
stockpiling nuclear weapons,
“peaceful coexistence’' would
seem to be the last words to de-
scribe their mutual attitude:
indeed, Harry Schwartz, in “New
York Times,” asserts that the
very expression itself is being
smartly adapted to Soviet pur-
poses.
The West, Schwartz notes, is
naturally not unaware of this
and is particularly concerned
with the likelihood of Com-
munist infiltration-tactics being
“used to nibble away at the free
world during a prolonged period
of ‘coexistence’ ”:
“This concern is based, of
course, on the general belief that,
while Moscow may not be willing
to risk all-out nuclear holocaust
to achieve its ends, it has not
surrendered its desire for world
domination —its belief that in the
20th century ‘all roads lead to
Communism.’ To achieve that
goal without all-out war, the
Kremlin has available a variety
of means of infiltration: mili-
tary, political, economic and
propaganda. In relation to any
single country, these can be used
alone or in combination to
weaken resistance to Commun-
ism and to achieve Moscow’s
desired goal.”
Quoting the capture of North
Vietnam as an example of mili-
tary infiltration, Schwartz com-
ments that this technique—“a
continuing problem in Malaya,
and to a lesser extent in Burma
and the Philippines”—is “some-
times called the ‘Yenan Way’ in
recognition of its great success in
China”; it “involves the forma-
tion of a Communist ‘people’s
liberation army’ to conduct an
armed insurrection against the
existing regime”:
“In a sense this technique is
the last decisive step in the
classic Communist pattern for
seizure of power, the step for
which the ground is prepared by
earlier political action and propa-
ganda. As the experience in
VietnanTproved, this process can
achieve success without touch-
ing-off a world war as long
as the Soviet Union and China
confine themselves to supplying
armament, munitions and ad-
visers, and do not send large
troop-formations in to help the
‘liberation army.’ The Com-
munists regard many parts of
Asia, South America and Africa
as regions in which such insurrec-
tion can be organised.”
Communist political infiltra-
tion is, of course, continuous in
most parts of the world with
varying degrees of success. As
an “extreme example of success”
in this line, Schwartz submits
the case of Indonesia:
“There, the 500,000-member
Communist party is actually one
of the chief supports of the cur-
rent Indonesian Government.
And there is reason to believe
that the holders of several key
Cabinet postsfare secret or not-
so-secret Communists. The Com-
munist influence on Indonesian
policy is consequently strong,
while the prospect for Com-
munist seizure of power—in the
pattern of the 1948 coup in
Czechoslovakia —is far from
dim.”
The third technique of infiltra-
tion —economic —is, “in one
sense, the use of capitalist tech-
niques to help destroy
capitalism”:
“By suggestions of huge trade
with the population of
900,000,000 in the Soviet bloc,
the leaders in Moscow and
Peking try to persuade Western
businessmen to act in ways that
serve Communist goals.
“In the last few years, for
example, the offer of giant trade-
deals has been employed to stir
up bitterness between the United
States and its Western European
allies, a technique whose partial
success was shown by last
summer’s relaxing of the em-
bargo on strategic exports.”
Finally there is propaganda-
infiltration of the free world in
all its variety of forms:
“In general, the propaganda
weapon encompasses all those
means used to influence non-
Communist peoples to fight
among themselves, to regard the
Soviet world with friendship,
rather than suspicion and fear,
and to lull the most powerful
free nations into a state of com-
placency that makes energetic
defence preparations virtually
impossible. No area of human
activity—be it seemingly so
remote from politics as chess-
playing or observance of a uni-
versity bicentennial - is immune
‘ from actual or potential employ-
ment for Soviet propaganda
ends.
“To the free world, habitually
accustomed to the now obsolete
dichotomy between war and
peace, such total involvement of
all human experience and
activity for political goals is
difficult to understand. Yet all
past history of Communist
activity shows that Moscow’s
rulers regard all weapons as part
of their arsenal and all areas of
social life as arenas for ideo-
logical or other political combat.
“If proof of Moscow’s skill in
these areas were needed, it is
provided best of all by the Krem-
lin’s success in making its present
campaign for ‘coexistence’ serve
to lessen tension, arouse hopes,
and make anti-Communism
nearly as unfashionable today in
many Western European and
Asian circles as it was in the
United States in World War 11,
when the heroic drama of Stalin-
grad was at its height.”
Commenting on the same
subject, David Lawrence,
editor of “U.S. News and
World Report,” and a con-
sistent advocate of a strong
Western counter to Soviet tactics,
adds that, “Even as the [U.S.]
Secretary of State describes the
Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun.”
GERMAN UNIFICATION—SOVIET STYLE
importance of building-up our
[American] military strength to
deter aggression, he couples it
with the statement that we never
intend to use that military
strength unless we are attacked.
“It is true that we have signed
a series of mutual - assistance
pacts to defend various countries
allied with us in Asia, but it is
crystal-clear that we do not in-
tend to fight even a ‘local war’ or
apply reprisals to secure respect
for our rights if such steps
might lead to an enlarged con-
flict. This can be interpreted
to mean that we will not use mili-
tary force at all.
“To argue against such a policy
always brings forth from the
pacifists the cry that ‘preventive
war’ is being advocated as an
alternative course. Yet a policy
of announcing that we will not
fight unless directly attacked
encourages the Communists to
proceed with their aggression in,
and infiltration of, free countries.
They know that they will not
meet with any ‘massive retalia-
tion’ but merely more conversa-
tion, conferences, and ‘co-
existence.’ This is not a policy
to deter aggression. It is a
policy that stimulates aggression.
“What leverage do we possess
short of war?
“First, we can threaten to cut
off all trade with the Com-
munists. We can offer to com-
pensate Allied producers for any
financial losses.
“Second, we can threaten to
sever diplomatic relations with
the Government of Soviet
Russia the main culprit and
mobilise the moral force of the
world against the Communists.
“Third, we can tell the peoples
behind the Iron Curtain that we
may have to abandon intercourse
of any kind financial and
economic—with the Communist
Governments.
“But we or our Allies
repeatedly announce that we will
not adopt such a policy. We
forfeit our leverage by con-
stantly telling the enemy what we
will not do.
“Yet these measures could
gradually pave the way for
liberation of the oppressed
peoples. This policy at least
would clarify the whole atmos-
phere and give the free world
a definite goal—a great cause.
“To accept ‘peaceful coexist-
ence’ and do nothing in the face
of threats to our safety, as the
Communists infiltrate the free
countries, is the same as saying
that we are willing to allow them
to get control of each Allied
Government and that we will
fight only after the United States
has been isolated.
“This is the road to an early
war. The advocates of peace-
at-any-price and appeasement
have brought on two world wars.
They can bring on a third by
encouraging the potential
aggressors.
“For our policies to date are
contradictory and may produce
in the minds of the Communists
the erroneous belief that they
can risk going to almost any
lengths in their aggressive acts
because we and our Allies are
paralysed with fear of an atomic
war.
“Sooner or later we must face
the issue and courageously make
it clear that we will really resist
further aggression. We must
ascertain which Allies will go
along with us to deter the Com-
munists from picking us olf one
by one, as Hitler did.
“For no war has ever been
avoided by a, willingness to buy
peace at any price—nor by pro-
claiming through meaningless
Notes of protest a policy of
passive retaliation.”
German Army
The heads of the new German
Army, as selected by “New York
Times” correspondent C. L.
Sulzberger:
“Front man” —Ludwig Crue-
well, resembling a successful
Ruhr businessman, which he is,
and “an excellent fafade for the
force which will be created when
Bonn and the Nato Parliaments
agree on German rearmament.”
Cruewell, “a full general with
spotless record and much rank,
was shot down in the Western
Desert in 1942 and taken prisoner
to America ; he is now 62, owns
an industrial respresentation-
agency and runs the Afrika Corps
Veterans’ Society—“this has been
built-up as a knightly order of
the followers of Erwin Rommel,
depicted as the Chevalier Bayard
of the gas-combustion age.”
“ Ambassador ” —Hans Speidel,
resembling a professor of
philosophy, which he is. Speidel,
“serious and cultivated, manages
to commute between the Uni-
versity of Tuebingen, where he
teaches* and Paris, where he
awaits recognition of Germany’s
right to rearm.” He supported
the European Defence Com-
munity idea, but prepared alter-
native military plans in case
E.D.C. fell through, as it did.
His foresight “enabled the tiny


WEIGHTS RIGHT
mm
+
m
im
■
iiliiilili
:
w«oY«Ym»m«
i'»Ps:.
j
m
1
mm
mm
wm
mmmM
mum
mm
Time’s right. . film’s right. .
all set for some fine indoor
snapshots. Be sure you keep
a permanent photographic
record of your youngster as
he grows up; in the years
ahead you’ll find hours of
pleasure in your album ,
when you use KODAK FILM
‘it gets the picture ’
if
KF673
DAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
professional German staff to
keep abreast of political shifts,”
and his next job will be to head
West Germany’s Army-missions
to Nato and S.H.A.P.E.
(Supreme Headquarters Allied
Powers Europe) when Germany
rearms.
“Brains and boss ” —Adolf
Heusinger, resembling “a small-
time cracker-barrel politician,
wfllch he emphatically is not.”
Retired by Himmler’s police 10
years ago, Heusinger is
“modern,” “very American” and
“too informal” to be taken for
a member of the German
General Staff corps —which
“happens to have been his sole
profession ever since he received
a second-lieutenant’s commission
in 1915.”
These three generals, Sulz-
berger notes, “are not yet very
famous outside Germany”:
“Rommel, patron of the first
two, and Jodi and Guderian,
bosses of the third, were more
renowned. But Rommel, Jodi
and Guderian are dead. The
new crop of German generals,
with its brand-new look, expects
to have a voice in future events.”
The Navy 's Part
Field-Marshal Lord Mont-
gomery lately declared aircraft-
carriers to be obsolete ; not long
afterwards the First Lord of the
Admiralty said otherwise, and,
as London “Economist” sees it,
the confusion was in no way
clarified “by distinguished
admirals in a recent House of
Lords debate, the sum-total
demands adding up to a Navy of
a size, variety and cost far
beyond the country’s [Britain’s]
ability to produce or pay for.”
“The real problem,” in the
“Economist” view, “is to decide
what sort of Navy Britain
should aim to have for a given
cost. This, in turn, is determined
by the purpose of the Navy in an
age of thermo-nuclear power-
politics” :
“What are the possible wars
that might have to be fought?
They are, crudely put, three: a
full-scale thermo-nuclear ‘hot’
war of short duration; a long
period of broken-backed war-
fare with conventional weapons
if the first blows are not
decisive ; and short ‘warm’ wars
of the Korean pattern within a
continuing cold war.
“The real incompatibility lies
between the ‘hot’ war in which
offensive power would be all-
important at the outset, and the
prolonged warfare fought with
conventional weapons in which
the guarding of sea-communica-
tions against surface-, under-
water- and air-raiders would be
a decisive defensive operation.
“The sort of Fleet capable of
guarding sea-communications —
the sort of Fleet which,
sketchily, we now possess—is
not the sort of Fleet which can
deliver maximum atomic strikes
at the outset of a ‘hot’ war ; and
not, therefore, the sort of Fleet
which acts as a deterrent to that
sort of attack, in the sense that
the U.S. strategic air-force and
R.A.F. long-range bomber-
force do.
“The Navy seems to be think-
ing more and more in terms of
a ‘hot’ war so immensely
destructive in its opening phase
that the course of any subse-
quent hostilities cannot be
planned in advance. The logical
deduction is that the first
priority is the deterrent against
any such war —the power of the
West to give rather more
terribly than it gets, however
terrible.
“If the deterrent is successful
the remaining risk is not—or so
the Navy increasingly feels —a
long war with conventional
weapons fought over the seven
oceans, but the limited ‘Korean’
war fought within a political
convention. These, then, are
the two wars to spend your
money on, if you cannot be
prepared for every risk.
“Since the deterrent policy is
No. 1, it follows that with
limited resources the first de-
fence-priority goes to the long-
range atomic - bomber with
adequate bases. This is the
weapon which, held at the ready,
is to deter attack (which increas-
ingly means catastrophe); but
if the other side is undeterred it
is the weapon which must at
least equalise the account.
“It should follow that the
Navy’s claim to any significantly
large slice of defence-resources
for the future must be based
largely on its capacity to lend
weight to that offensive-capacity,
both 'as a deterrent and as
equaliser; secondarily, its claim
must be based on its power to
deal with the ‘warm,’ ‘conven-
tional’ wars that might be waged
under the mushroom-shaped
umbrella of the atomic dead-
lock between the Power-blocs.
“The question, therefore,
largely turns, technically, on the
uses of the aircraft-carrier. In
the ‘cold war’ the aircraft-
carrier, protected by other ships,
is the only naval weapon capable
of backing policy here and
now; for it is the only one
capable of delivering A-
weapons. But it also happens to
be the most useful type of ship
for most of the ‘warm’ wars that
are likely to break out—the sort
of wars in which the Maritime
Powers will need to move men,
aircraft and bases to one or
other part of the periphery of
the Sino-Sovlet land-mass.
“The carrier is so expensive
that, if it is useless, investment
in it represents a grave detrac-
tion from the possible strength
of Strategic Bomber Command.
If, too, the Navy is to have
carriers, it must necessarily
skimp on the frigates and mine-
clearers which insure against the
conventional-type long-war risk.
It is a crucial point, because
Britain’s Defence Budget is so
limited, and carriers take up so
much of any naval building-
estimates. It is at this point in
the argument that most air-
strategists consider that the case
for the carrier, has been lost;
for they assume that it is hope-
lessly vulnerable, a gift to
Neptune of money, men, aircraft
and scarce atomic warheads.
“But this point has not been
proved either way,” the “Econo-
mist” continues, “and the matter
should not be prejudged. Ex-
pensive as it is, the carrier is a
mobile air-base. Existing atomic
air-bases (they are not cheap)
are limited both in Britain and
elsewhere; they are natural
targets for A-bombs. Their posi-
tion is known; they are the
obvious first targets for a
sudden atomic attack.
“But the position of carriers
is not known; retaliation from
them would come from an un-
predictable direction ; if things
went ill, they might be among
the few bases from which Nato
could retaliate. In that event,
however ‘short’ their ‘life’ (if,
indeed, it proved to be short),
they would have been decisive ;
and therefore as deterrents they
are important.
“This line of argument has
decided the United States for
the insurance-premium which
the Forrestal-class represents,
lust as it has been decided that
Britain cannot leave strategic-
bombing entirely to the
U.S.A.F., so there is a prima
facie argument that Britain can-
not leave the naval offensive
entirely to the American Fleet.
“For the future there are two
other points. Should it become
possible to intercept high-level
bombing attacks, the West’s only
power to strike might be by
tactical aircraft and from
carriers. The position will again
change when the ballistic-rocket
becomes practicable. Its range
will at first be shortish, and
those who command the seas
and have naval launching-plat-
forms will have a big advantage
—but only if they prepare for
it by a Navy meanwhile trained
to the offensive with current
weapons. (Some naval men
think the ballistic-rocket will
make the bomber air-force
obsolete and re-emphasise navad
importance.) j
“Simultaneously with the de-
terrent, the Navy’s role is to
cope with the limited wars, for
which, as has been said, the
carrier is a vital weapon. The
growth of atomic weapons could
make such wars more likely—
particularly if the West has no
effective tools with which to
fight them. A defensive Fleet
for protecting sea-lanes is not,
in the Navy’s view, such a tool,
The carrier is.
“The other point, somewhat
grimmer, is this. A small indus-
trial country subjected to very
heavy thermo-nuclear attack
might well find that a not incon-
siderable part of its surviving
technical know-how survived in
its ships at sea. Indeed, if the
worst befell, nations with ships
might be the only belligerent
nations left with communica-
tions on any scale.”
British Aircraft
British-press hints of troubles
in the U.K. aircraft-industry
have already been noted here ;
more .recent comment has been
much more definite.
A London “Observer” corres-
pondent notes that only 12
months ago Britain appeared to
be well out in front —it had
produced the best gas-turbines,
built and flown aircraft with an
interesting variety of almost
revolutionary wing-designs, col-
lected a core of knowledge about
large land-planes and flying-
boats, “introduced the first
turbine-engined aircraft on the
regular services,” and won world-
records for speed, altitude and
rate of climb.
Then came the Comet disasters
and other mishaps to high-speed
aircraft, followed by American
criticism of Britain’s White
Hopes in the fighter sphere, the
Swift arid the Hunter; and U.S.
critics also contending that the
three British medium-bombers,
the Valiant, Victor and Vulcan,
were “two too many” for
Britain’s technical and industrial
resources. As the “Observer”
correspondent puts it, the
Americans “hinted that Britain
was building aircraft which were
ahead of her basic aerodynamic
knowledge.”
The “Observer” correspondent
himself holds that the real
trouble rests with the industry’s
largest customers —the Services
and the State airline-corpora-
tions—which expect it not only
to be as good as the American
industry but also to cover as wide
a field —an impossibility “unless
a much greater proportion of
our [Britain’s] total technical
and industrial effort is to be
devoted to aviation.”
Some further British-press
comment :
London “Daily Mail ” ; “The
news that the Mark I and
Mark II Swifts were not allowed
to fly above 25,000 ft. was
received with a gasp of dismay.
The Korean war was fought
between 35,000 ft. and 45,000 ft.
Even the Spitfire operated at
36,000 ft. nine years ago. The
Air Minister expected to have
‘large numbers’ of Swifts and
Hunters by now. Actually he
has got about 40—and the Swift
is still being ‘evaluated.’
“On the civil side there have
also been many misses. The
Tudor, Brabazon, Hermes,
Apollo and Princess are among
the aircraft which, for one
reason or another, did not ‘come
off.’ ”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “The man
in the street is disturbed when he
hears that there are only 40
swept-wing fighters in squadron-
service with the R.A.F., and that
of these the Swifts are having
trouble which has led to their
being forbidden to fly above
25,000 ft.
“There are two main reasons
for these delays. One is that
since the end of the war Britain's
aircraft-industry has been kept
uncomfortably stretched. The
other lies in. the bewildering
swiftness with which weapons of
aerial attack have developed in
the last 10 years. Within a few
years, it is thought, the United
States will be producing in
quantity an inter-continental
ballistic missile capable of
4000 mp.h. and probably able to
carry an atomic warhead: and
it is believed that the Russians
are keeping pace with the
Americans, The means of
defence have lagged behind the
means of attack—and when the
planning of new fighters has
taken a matter of years this has
been a crippling weakness.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“It is a gross oversimplification
to say that the R.A.F. has got
only 40 modern fighters for an
expenditure of several hundred
millions; but the deduction is
that for the time being the
modernisation of the Air Force
has not taken place.”
* * *
London "Financial Times”:
“So far as can be told from
public announcements the air-
defence of Great Britain now
depends chiefly on the United
States Air Force, the only air-
force in Western Europe which
is fully equipped with modern
machines. The Royal Air Force
is short of modern aircraft, and
its morale is comparatively low.”
* * *
London “Daily Express”:
“Not only is Britain short of
up-to-date fighters for her Air
Force. She is still without the
weapons of the atomic age—the
guided-missile and the Atomic-
cannon. The American Forces
are equipped with guided-
missiles. Their troops in Europe
take the atomic-cannon on
manoeuvres.
“And no doubt the Americans
will next be equipping the
rearmed Germans. So the
Germans may have these modern
weapons before the British.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Loan for Hospitals
The Federal and N. S. Wales Govern-
ments have been remarkably silent about
the proposal made some time ago by the
chairman of directors of Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital (Sir Herbert Schlink) that
a special loan should be raised to put all
hospitals in N. S. Wales on a proper
footing. Sir Herbert said he was con-
fident that, if such a loan were floated at
the usual rates of interest, a large num-
ber of people would invest their savings
in it, knowing that it would help a most
worthy cause.
In normal circumstances one would
have expected both the Prime Minister
and the N. S. Wales Premier to applaud
the proposal, but so far there has been
no official comment from either of them.
Presumably, if the Federal Treasurer (Sir
Arthur Fadden) were asked about it, he
\vould point to the comparative failure
of the recent Commonwealth loan as
evidence that public money is now hard
to get, and that a hospitals-lgan would
fare no better than any other. Many
people think otherwise, and the only
way of deciding who is right is to put it
to the test. If people fail to subscribe
generously to a hospitals-loan they will
have only themselves to blame if, need-
ing hospital accommodation at any time,
they are unable to get it.
Most public hospitals in N. S. Wales
are desperately short of accommodation
simply because, for years, they have never
had sufficient money to carry out exten-
sions and alterations. The Premier (Mr.
Cahill) is well aware of these things, but
seems more concerned with building an
opera-house and a new Parliament build-
ing.
Many country works are languishing
because of lack of money and lack of
push on the part of the Government.
When Mr. Cahill wants to play politics
against Mr. Menzies he shrieks to high
heaven about the tight-fistedness of the
Commonwealth Government; but when
the building of an opera-house is men-
tioned he promises a million pounds to
see it through. It would be more to his
credit to raise money for hospital exten-
sions and improvements. —M. F. D.
(N.S.W.).
Interest Charges
It’s news to me that applicants for
financial accommodation ever bother
themselves about the rate of interest
charged them (B. 12/1 /’55).
So far as bank-overdrafts were con-
cerned, my experience, over a good many
“ Willie—come AWAY from there!”
years, was that not once in a blue-moon
did the borrower ever worry himself over
the matter, even in the depression years.
All he wanted to know, as a general rule,
was if he could get what he wanted.
In past years, the bank-interest for
overdrafts could have been anything up
to 8 per cent., although such a rate was
not often charged ; but 7 per cent, was
quite usual. As the banks were paying
5 per cent., and a shade over sometimes,
for 24-months’ fixed-deposits, such a
charge was reasonable enough. Still, I
was rarely asked what rate was being
charged. The customers trusted the banks
to do the right thing, and they did.
Farmers’ overdrafts were usually in
the “Kathleen Mavoumeen” class,
which prompted the observation made at
the Royal Commission on Banking that
banking-policy in Australia was too much
one of borrowing “short” and lending
“long.” Not only did the cocky or
grazier not worry much about the rate
of interest charged; he did not seem to
be vastly concerned about the principal
amount owing, either.
I had one classic example of that.
He was a grazier, well on in years, and
looked like taking his overdraft to the
grave with him. His debt was a big one,
but, provided he paid the interest every
year, he did not worry about knocking
something off the principal. I asked
him one day if he had ever considered
doing something in that direction.
“No,” he replied. “As a matter of
fact, ever since I was a small boy I have
had the overdraft for breakfast, dinner
and tea and would be lost without it.” He
had inherited it from his father and pro-
posed bequeathing it to his son.
City borrowers were much the same
as the farmers. All they wanted to know
was whether they could get the money
they wanted. Seldom was the question of
rate discussed. Anyway, most of the
banks charged much the same rates, and
customers knew they would be treated
fairly, and left it at that. — l Mgr. (Vic.).
Municipal Libraries
“Plain Australian” (B. 5/1 / ’55) assumes
that, because nearly half the lendings
from Victorian municipal libraries are
now fiction, this will always be the case.
A Canadian survey over the years
1941-51 showed that the number of
borrowers registered in Canadian public
libraries increased by 35 per cent, although
the population increased by only 19 per
cent. Public libraries stocked almost the
same amount of fiction throughout that
decade, but their annual circulation
dropped from 10,000,000 to lsss than
8,500,000. Over the same period the
circulation of non-fiction increased out
of proportion to the population. The
survey also showed a sharp increase in
the circulation of children’s books, and
that children are leaning more and more
towards better literature.
I know of no similar survey in Aus-
tralia, but as conditions here are in many
ways comparable to those of Canada, it
is reasonable to suppose that similar
trends could be taking place in this
country.
“Plain Australian” also suggests that if
municipal libraries did not handle fiction
their output would be so negligible that
it would not warrant Government grants.
In Adelaide there are no municipal
libraries. The metropolitan lending-
department of the Public Library is the
only source of free reading in the city.
This library does not supply popular
fiction, yet its thriving lending-service is
proof that thousands of people, even
married women, do want to read books
other than popular novels.
Children have never had such easy
access to better-class reading-material —as
now available in school libraries. Every
year many of these youngsters are leav-
ing school to swell the ranks of people
who want more and better books. This
type of reading is not simply entertain-
ment. Whether readers of non-fiction
books are conscious of it or not, their
reading is an extension of education, and
in this country people rightly expect their
educational facilities to be free.
Non-fiction books generally cost more
than popular novels, and that alone puts
most of these books beyond the reach of
subscription-libraries. Also a lending-
library which covers the whole field of
knowledge must be administered by
trained librarians if it is to be of maximum
use to the public.
While the lending of light fiction could
well be left to subscription-libraries,
public lending-libraries are an important
“Were not going out this weekend. Father hasn't finished cleaning
the car yet.”
and ever-growing part of our life and
must receive improved Government and
municipal support to meet present and
future demands for better-class books.
—Pooh-bah (S.A.).
To Fit the Crime?
About the most heinous crime, apart
from murder, that you can commit in
Victoria is to pinch a Christmas-tree from
a State-forest. Anyone caught at this
horrible felony is liable to a fine of up
to £2OO, or a jail-sentence of two years,
or both.
Yet when a Melbourne youth drove a
stolen car at 80 m.p.h. through the city,
jumping every red-light during his wild
progress and eventually having to be
held at gunpoint by pursuing police, he
was fined £2O and sent to jail for six
months. — Narumee (Vic.).
Communism and Coexistence
If the free world is to “coexist” with
the Soviet Union, then plainly the Soviet
and its leaders must repudiate all idea of
establishing the world Communist State.
For more than a generation Communist
theory has been pursued with infinite
patience and exactness by all its devotees.
That theory admits of no permanent co-
existence with those who reject it, and it
predicates one ultimate conclusion —
world Communism.
Since 1939 Communist advances have
been terrific. The Soviet sphere of
influence in Europe now extends to
Petsamo, Karelia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithu-
ania, Koenigsberg, Poland, East Germany,
Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Rumania,
Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Albania. In the
East it extends to the Kuriles, Southern
Sakhalin, Northern Korea, Manchuria,
Mongolia, China, Tibet and virtually
half of Indo-China.
Nor is that the end of Soviet influence.
No country in the world has escaped
from the effects of Communist activity
and penetration. Industrial larrikinism,
treachery in high places, sabotage, dupli-
city, open defiance of Constitutional gov-
ernment, insurrection, class-warfare —
all fit into the familiar pattern of Com-
munist endeavor.
As Igor Gouzenko declared in his
sworn statement before the Royal Com-
mission in Canada in 1946: “It is clear
that the Communist party in democratic
countries has changed long ago from a
political party into an agency-net of the
Soviet Government, into a fifth-column
in these countries to meet a war.”
If the West admits permanent coexis-
tence with the Soviet Union, then it
follows that the West not only believes
the Soviet will abandon its role as the
base for world-revolution, but also
believes the Communist party throughout
the world will renounce its work and its
ways. To base coexistence on such pre-
mises would be the height of folly, and
the Soviet Union would win its biggest
victory.
What is the alternative to the free
world’s coexistence with the Soviet
Union? Atomic warfare and all its con-
sequential ruin? No. While the West
retains the power of retaliation the Soviet
will never resort to atomic warfare save
as a last desperate bid.
Communism’s weakness is found in its
own system of tyranny and oppression.
Human nature never completely sur-
renders to evil. The Soviet’s greatest
enemies are found in those countries it
has conquered. The Latvian remembers
the planned starvation of the thousands
of his countrymen; the Lithuanian can’t
forget the murder of 6000 people in the
town of Czerverne; the Pole recalls
Soviet thuggery in Poland; the Czech’s
thoughts of the days of Jan Masaryk are
not merely nostalgic.
All those people of all those countries
which have known freedom yearn for free-
dom again with an intensity appreciated
only by those who have had their freedom
filched from them. These people wait,
work, plan and pray for the opportunity
to strike back. The West should employ
every device short of war to hasten that
opportunity.
Professor Boldyreff (one of the founders
of the National Alliance of Russian Soli-
darists, the Russian underground move-
ment) once observed that “Stalin does not
fear the feverish rearming of the United
States; what Stalin does fear is a revolt
of the Russian people.” Translate that
in terms of revolt of the people of satel-
lite countries and you have the real fear
of the present Soviet rulers. —D. J. K.
(Q).
Water Conservation
There is a good deal of wailing about
country water-supply in W.A., but most
of it is misdirected, particularly such
notions as piping water from metropolitan
reservoirs to country areas. The metro-
politan area is going to need all, and
more, of its reservoir-capacities within
the next two decades.
A lot of the country in need of water
has quite an abundant rainfall —up to an
average of 20in. a year.
One inch of rain on one acre represents
roughly 22,700 gallons of water.
With a 20in. rainfall, a catchment of
100 acres would receive 45,400,000
gallons. Any reasonably well-prepared
catchment would deliver 50 per cent, of
this to a reservoir—about 22,700,000
gallons. An ordinary earth-dam with
clay-cored bank, in a suitable site —of
which there are thousands all over the
State —could impound this with ease for
an initial construction-cost of a few
thousand pounds.
Few places with a rainfall of 20in. or
more have much excuse for being without
water. The capacity of an earth-reservoir
can be increased to any required size, but
it is better to make one suitable for roof-
ing, as losses by evaporation exceed the
gallonage drawn for normal purposes
almost anywhere in W-A. outside the
metropolitan area.
The main requirement is an efficient
i catchment-area, and in that regard many
of our smaller water-schemes fail badly.
One 880-acre catchment I know has only
a five per cent, run-off.
Where the rainfall drops to, say, 10 or
12in. the principle is the same, only more
so —the catchment must be as near per-
fect as engineering skill can make it and
the reservoir must be roofed-in. —R. H. G.
(W.A.).


Asian Population
Most of the arguments about Asian
overpopulation miss the point. The
reason why Chinese or Indian parents
have a lot of children is because, gener-
ally speaking, children are not an econo-
mic disadvantage to them. The children
of farmers become farmers and the chil-
dren of craftsmen become craftsmen, like
their fathers, and in their fathers’ work-
shops.
Families in Australia tend to be small
because children are brought up to be an
economic disadvantage. Every child is a
fresh mouth to be fe'd ; he has to be edu-
cated, and the education takes anything
up to 15 years ; if he belongs to the pro-
fessional-class he has to be trained to a
profession, and the profession is usually
different from his father’s. He adds noth-
ing to the family’s wealth even when he
comes of age, as he usually marries and
sets-up an isolated unit.
The chances of altering this situation
are so remote that moral admonitions
and appeals to patriotism and so forth are
a waste of breath, and the politicians’ rosy
dreams of an immense increase in the
population by natural means have as much
chance of success as Pandit Nehru’s
appeals to the Indian people to reduce
their enormous increase by the practice
of birth-control and similar Western
notions.— Feng-Shui (Vic.).
Elder Statesmen
The Senate was originally designed to
give the States a voice in the Federal
Parliament, but unfortunately it has come
under the sway of party politics. “Morris
the Tinker’s” suggestion to give elder
statesmen, ex-Premiers, former justices,
etc., debating-rights in the Senate, but no
voting rights (B. 29/12//54), would do
nothing to break the party stranglehold
on that Chamber.
I suggest that half the Senators be
elected by the people, the other half to
comprise former Prime Ministers, ex-
Commonwealth Ministers with 10 years
of office, former State Premiers with five
years of office, plus one or two from each
State to represent industry—such men as
Essington Lewis, If members of the High
Court and Supreme Courts automatically
became entitled to a seat in the Senate on
retirement from the Bench, then only
party hacks would have a chance of being
appointed to the judiciary.
We sorely need a Senate that will
function for the benefit of Australia in-
stead of for the benefit of political
parties, and we certainly need a Chamber
where our elder statesmen could continue
to give us the benefit of their long experi-
ence and wisdom without having to
undergo the ordeal of fighting elections.
—K. Me. (N.S.W.).
Antarctic Exploration
Sir Ernest Shackleton will be smiling
quietly in the Silence. A British expedition
is being organised to cross the Antarctic
continent from coast to coast, via the
Pole, an ambitious plan that Shackleton
first thought of. He tried in 1914. His
failure to get through to the Caird Coast,
the subsequent drift with the pack-ice
and the extraordinary struggle to bring
help to his men stranded on Elephant
Island is perhaps the greatest single epic
in the record of Antarctic exploration, in-
cluding even Scott’s journey to the Pole.
The new expedition will have a better
chance. Ice-breakers will bash their way
to the continent, and once there, weazels,
those amazing little snow-tractors (much
like a Bren-carrier to look at), will head
inland towing insulated caravans. These
caravans, first thought of by an Australian
with the British-Swedish-Norwegian ex-
pedition, are the most significant modem
contribution to Antarctic exploration.
The amouqt of time and physical strain
they save after a hard day’s travelling is
incalculable.
The imagination almost boggles at the
scope of this single expedition. Like
Shackleton, the planners intend to use
two parties, one from each side of the
continent. One party will be British, led
by Cambridge geologist Dr. Vivian
Fuchs; the other, New Zealand, which
may be led by Sir Edmund Hillary.
They’ll meet somewhere on the Polar
plateau. What a triumph for British
exploration if they meet at the Pole!
Great things are happening in the
South. Our own Australian National
Antarctic Research Expedition, led by
Bob Dovers, has discovered a new moun-
tain-range at Macßobertson Land and
surveyed King Edward VIII Gulf. More
discoveries will be made in the years to
come.
There are reports that American ex-
peditions will be established in the year
ahead, one of them right at the Pole,
another in the Rockefeller Mountains, and
another at the Bay of Whales. This
“Little America” party will He serviced
regularly by four-engined aircraft from
New Zealand, using a three-mile strip
which is to be built on the Ross Ice
Shelf. And if I know the Yanks they’ll
visit the Pole station by air, too. Mail
from home at the South Pole! The old-
timers would be incredulous, but they’d
be pleased.
There is no doubt that the world’s last
frontier is about to give Up its secrets
under the pressure" of modem technology.
It’s amazing that only 40 years ago Ant-
arctic exploration meant man-hauling of
sledges, hardship and very real suffering,
with the certain knowledge that the ex-
pedition would still be in debt for years
after it returned. It’s a different story
today.—V. J. H. (W.A.).
Road Toll
It would be a good idea if the police
were to station themselves outside tourist-
resort hostelries and grab sozzled drivers
before they start out on their ride of
death. Because of the bona-fide-traveller
clause in the Licensing Act, these places
seem to have an “open go” at the week-
ends, and take full advantage of it.
Such action by the police would be far
better than their usual role of turning-up
with a note-book after the accident has
occurred. \
A high-powered car under the foot of
a drunken or exhilarated driver is a
lethal weapon in every sense of the word.
Here are some figures from “Insurance
News and Views”: In Australia, a road-
death occurs every 4} hours, a major
casualty every 12 minutes, and a minor
casualty every 6\ minutes. In 1953, 1863
people died on the roads; 71 per cent,
being blameworthy for their own deaths
due to carelessness, speed or drink
Ceg (Vic.).
_______ )
Road Accidents
The hysterical approach to traffic
problems will not prevent accidents. It is
obvious that the general run of drivers
are careful; but, on the law of averages
alone, the more cars there are on the road
the more accidents there will be while the
pedestrian is able to rub shoulders with
the moving vehicle. Even segregation is no
cure, as indicated by the number of
accidents on railway level-crossings.
Strict insistence on 30 m.p.h. and
prosecution of motorists by the hundred
for exceeding the speed-limit is unlikely
to reduce the weekly toll. Apart from
the practical impossibility of enforcing
that limit if traffic is to be kept moving,
the motorists who mostly get booked are
not the ones who get mixed up with
light-standards and telegraph-poles during
weekends.
It is questionable if the weekly blitz
prevents the kind of accidents which kill
people. These casualties are caused by a
variety of factors—mechanical faults,
blowouts, overloaded cars, children inter-
fering with the driving, and juveniles or
teenagers indulging in “joie de vivre.”
No policeman can prevent these
“I bagged them on an alcoholiday !”
accidents, which are just the ones, along
with drunken-driving, that fill the weekly
casuahy-hsts.
Misadventure they used to call it-
the things that are bound to happen
because of failure in the human element,
In the quietness of our homes the house-
wife, her mind upon some chore, forgets
there is another step to the stairs. Down
she goes and breaks an ankle, or worse,
The elderly Person who looks carefully
to the right and left before crossing the
street steps upon a banana-skin. Down
"I get on real well with my Tom. Specially when he's away shearing
he goes and often cracks his skull. It is
always with us, everywhere. Mis-
adventure, and nobody can prevent it.
We can only be careful. — Shellback
(N.S.W.).
Senator McCarthy
I lately heard an A.B.C. news-commen-
tator, a university lecturer, give U.S.
Senator McCarthy a terrific verbal
trouncing. Ordinarily, I should say that
McCarthy wouldn’t give two hoots for
what any Australian critic had to say
about him —he has faced sterner attacks
at home and isn’t likely to be influenced
by such long-distance bombardment,
assuming he ever hears about it.
Differences of opinion about
McCarthy’s methods of fighting Com-
munism appear likely to go on indefin-
itely, while Communists alone rejoice at
the conflict and us© all their subtle
propaganda to fan the flames. They have
little to fear while their opponents remain
divided.
McCarthy is condemned by many sin-
cere people as an extremist and fanatic
who will smear friend and foe alike if it
suits his purpose. The Senator replies,
in effect, that people who are not pre-
pared to take the gloves off to Com-
munism must be regarded as either
friendly-disposed towards it or, at least,
neutral; and that as the creed is founded
on fanaticism it must be fought by fanati-
cal methods. 8 ° y tanaU
Australians as a whole have never
shown an acute awareness of internattoral
trends. I recall a year or so before die
outbreak of World War II being criUci ed
for having allowed an A.B.C news-co,S
mentator to say it would be an act of
folly to accede to Germany’s demands for
the return of her former Pacific posses-
sions. This was a question which vitally
concerned Australia, and in the circum-
stances I thought plain speaking was
preferable to “diplomacy,” which could
easily have turned into compromise.
Also, long before Japan made its
attack on Pearl Harbor there was a stern
official attitude against mentioning facts
about that country’s aggressive moves in
the Pacific. Some people were even
optimistic enough to believe that war was
impossible while Japanese “peace” envoys
were parleying at Washington. A ruthless
and realistic Japanese Government soon
disillusioned us.
Twenty-five years ago anyone who had
the. temerity to say Communism was
likely to constitute a threat to the Aus-
tralian way of life was liable to be laughed
at; and when Communist candidates
polled miserably at Federal and State
elections the scoffers hailed it as proof
that Communism would never amount to
anything in this country. We know
better now. Communists never seriously
believed they would gain power through
the ballot-box —they don’t believe in that
democratic way of electing Governments.
Theirs is the strong-arm method, in ♦v'hich
there is no opposition. Abroad, their
propaganda is aimed at creating dissatis-
faction and discontent through disruption
of production and commerce and the
beggaring of a country’s economy by
forcing the Government to spend a dis-
proportionate amount of the national
income on defence. Over-taxation inevit-
ably follows and the tide turns against
democracy. That is where Communism
steps in..
Senator McCarthy’s methods of fight-
ing Communism may be crude and
ineffective, but at least he is fighting it,
and until we have something better to
offer as a weapon against it we might, in
decency, allow time and his own people
to convince him that he is wrong.—
M. F. Dixon (N.S.W.).
Eggs
Rightly enough, the Federal Govern-
ment refused to subsidise poultryfarmers,
but it has now started a survey of the
business to give us some good advice, and
that is putting the cart before the horse.
If poultryfarmers were to receive for
their eggs the price storekeepers pay for
them we would have little fault to find.
But in Victoria we clear 2s. lOd. a dozen,
the Egg Board takes 2s. and the store-
keeper a few pennies. It’s the board’s
costs that need investigating, not produc-
tion-costs.
The solution is simple: A central autho-
rity to fix maximum and minimum prices
and the farmers to sell direct to store-
keepers or customers, using egg-packs
and with the eggs graded by weight and
stamped with the grower’s name and the
date. Domestic consumption would be
increased and we would be independent
of overseas markets —and the better for
that.
If private firms can sell at a profit
overseas, good luck to them. When a
private firm makes a blue it goes broke.
When the Egg Board makes a blue the
producers pay —and not a single board
employee misses a day’s wages.— Cock-o'-
the-Walk (Vic.).


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE...
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by H.SAV. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
Xhis self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
slmni
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
1 DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: . Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
W.A.: , R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: - Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
os
&M-
-iStD
qO*
bo***
tiV.
2
?q£'6&*
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly sappllad
Writ* to DAVIS GELATINE: G.PO. 800 JSBI.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Boi 4058. MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Boi 712 P, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Boi 7BBK. BRISBANE
• G.P.O. Boi SBB. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO,
GRAZCOS"
CATTLE-TICK
NEXT to drought, cattle-tick
is the major killer of cattle,
both beef and dairy, in Queens-
land.
A good year, by and large,
both for cattlemen and sheep-
men, 1954 was one of the worst
years yet from the point of view
of tick-control. In some of the
marginal areas it was not
uncommon to see 30 or 40 head
of breeders around the yards
and paddocks at mustering;
simply bled to death by ticks.
Another year like 1954 and
cattlemen in the bad tick-
country won’t have much time
for other chores ; they’ll be flat-
out dipping.
Which means, of course, all
manner of necessary work half-
done or neglected. Labor is still
very hard to get, and really good
men are at a premium. Contrac-
tors are few and far between.
The cattle-tick was probably
introduced into the Northern
Territory from Batavia about
1872; then gradually spread
into Queensland. It has caused
some worry in northern N.S.W,
It was all arsenical dipping
up to 1946, when, in coastal
areas around Rockhampton
(Q.), arsenic-resistant ticks made
their appearance. D.D.T. and
B.H.C. preparations,, fortunately,
saved the day.
Now arsenical preparations
aren’t used so much. This is
true, particularly, on the coast,
where ticks are always active.
Many cattlemen around Rock-
hampton reckon that if they
had persevered with arsenic their
losses (especially of breeders)
would have been enormous. As
they put it, you kill the beast
before you kill the tick. Of
necessity, they had to use dips
with an arsenic-content above
the recommended strength.
Over the past two years, in
Queensland coastal areas, ticks
have shown a marked resistance
to B.H.C. preparations. On
three properties, about nine
miles from Rockhampton, new
dips (i.e., recently constructed),
charged with B.H.C. prepara-
tions at the correct strength,
failed: successive dippings, 18
days apart, also failed.
But D.D.T. preparations have
been effective. Some progres-
sive cattlemen around Rock-
hampton have as many as eight
Rucide dips, each, on their
properties. Naturally, these men
dipped more frequently in 1954
than in other years, but they
succeeded in keeping the en-
gorged female-ticks off their
breeders.
■Secret of their success was
the fact that they didn’t wait
for the ticks to appear, but
dipped breeders three times, at
18-day intervals, first. These
three quick dippings seemed to
hold the parasite in check.
It seems likely, then, that if
Rucide and other D.D.T.
preparations held the tick in
1954 they will again.
The great danger is the care-
less cattleman who doesn’t mix
a preparation according to
manufacturer’s specification. In
such cases, near-enough is a
long way from good-enough.
Most common error is to use
the stuff under-strength ; thereby
losing a good deal of the
residual effect. Not so much
danger the other way: Rucide,
for instance, can be used on
day-old calves at 10 times the
recommended strength without
harmful effects.
Some graziers on marginal
areas don’t have dips. Yet they
could lose cattle to the value of
the cost of construction of 100
dips. Knew a man in the cen-
tral highlands who lost 251 of
a draft of 800 prime bullocks
through an outbreak of tick-
fever. He sold the survivors as
stores.
J. F. DOYLE.
The Keyline
Mr. Schlunke’s further com-
ments on my book The Key line
Plan (B. 5/1/’55) alleged care-
lessness in the gradient of water-
drains. He says of drains that
I am satisfied if these parallel
the keyline and do not worry
about their gradient. If this
were so I would deserve a much
more severe criticism.
Where drains are used in the
keyline-plan they are pegged-in
accurately, preferably with a
dumpy-level, and constructed
with care. The fall recom-
mended in my book is sft. per
1000 ft. Flatter falls may be
satisfactory, but steeper falls are
rarely advisable. Nowhere in
my book do I say that a drain
is near-enough if it parallels the
keyline. Confusion on this point
may have arisen from my men-
tion of the diverting and spread-
ing of rainwater occasioned by
the effect of the tine-marks of
the Graham-plough paralleling
the keyline, which I likened to
many hundreds or thousands of
small diversion- or spreading
drains.
“Paralleling the keyline” is
purely a cultivation device which
effectively promotes even
absorption of rainfall over all
the area by its automatic -off-
setting of the natural rapid con-
centration of rainfall in the
valleys. Not until all the land
treated this way has absorbed
its full water-capacity will rain-
water begin to move to the
valleys. Then its concentration-
time is so increased by the device
that water-flow is wide, shallow
and completely harmless.
Let me state quite clearly that
in the application of the keyline-
plan, either on a farm unaffected
by soil-erosion or one affected
with the type of erosion that
ordinary soil-conservation prac-
tices are designed to cure, drains
or system of drains are not used
directly or solely for soil-
erosion control.
Drains are used for two main
purposes —the transport of water
for conservation, and the trans-
port of conserved water for later
use, such as irrigation. (All
these existing drains on my
properties have been accurately
plotted with a dumpy-level by
myself. Gradients range from
a fall of 3ft. per 1000 ft. to a
fall of sft. per 1000 ft.)
Mr. Schlunke quotes a grazier,
a land-agent and an o.i.c. of a
major soil-conservation station
as saying of Nevallan (my
Richmond, N.S.W., property)
that its fertility is “obvious and
impressive,” and that the system
could be successfully undertaken
by anyone who did not have to
make a living off the land. How-
ever, these gentlemen, who each
had the opportunity of expres-
sing this opinion to me, did not
do so, and I believe that “Man
on the Land” as well as myself
will be much more interested in
Mr. Schlunke’s own views of the
economics of “Keyline” after
he has seen the work.
Mr. Schlunke considers it is
a pity that I had to go as far
afield as Natal, South Africa, to
find a conservationist to support
the “keyline” principle. In this
I sought only to illustrate its
true scientific basis. Surely Mr.
Schlunke does not believe that
an officer of our Soil Conserva-
tion Department, no matter how
favorable his thoughts on the
keyline-plan, would dare to
express unqualified approval and
recommendation. This could
imply criticism of his own
senior officers. If such approval
were coming from our Soil
Conservation Department it
could obviously only follow
proper investigations.
Mr. Schlunke quotes Mr.
K. Woodham, a practising soil-
conservationist at the New South
Wales Department, as saying:
“Keyline” is a guide to farm-
planning, and theoretically the plan
has definite advantages. In practice,
however, it is realised that in farm-
land subject to bad erosion it is
imperative to have installed a well-
desjgned absorption and/or diversion
type of works with correct levels
taken, which will hfeld or safely divert
damaging run-off. The extent.of the
work will depend, of course, on such
factors as the slope and type of land,
the intensity and duration of storms,
and many other factors.
Any other schemes which are imple-
mented in the control of serious
erosion in which levels of control-
measures are not definitely known
would have to be viewed with grave
caution. Moreover, even the most
carefully designed soil-conservation
structures need to be followed by wise
land-use if the full benefits are to be
gained.
This is not only pointless but
misleading. It assumes again
that drains used in the keyline-
plan are not accurately plotted.
I was no novice with a dumpy-
level and general surveying-
“He gets sick and tired of riding in the pouch."
implements in my mining work
many years before the forma-
tion" of our soil-conservation
service. Some of this work had
to do with the control and trans-
port of water through drains
and water-races. Perhaps be-
cause of this earlier experience,
I habitually follow a greater
degree of accuracy in the level-
ling work on drains than that
generally recommended by the
soil-conservation service. I find
that the greater the degree of
accuracy in plotting the course
of a drain the higher the effici-
ency of a given-sized drain in
transporting water.
Special structures purely for
soil-conservation are not a part
of “Keyline,” but the conser-
vation of water via drains and
dams advocated in The Keyline
Plan, plus the other “Keyline”
methods for rapid and continu-
ous improvement of soil-depth
and -fertility to increase produc-
tion and lessen costs, in them-
selves make erosion almost
impossible and certainly not a
danger. Where soil-erosion does
exist, these practices wipe it out
quickly.
If any farmer or soil-conser-
vationist calculates the amount
of rainfall that can be held in
the ground immediately follow-
ing keyline-cultivation, he will
find that it greatly exceeds that
which can be held by all his
absorption-banks or pasture-
furrows, and these will cost
many times as much to put in
as the more simple keyline-
work. Furthermore, much of
the water held by absorption-
banks never penetrates the
ground, but evaporates, offering
little definite soil-improvement
in the process. The rainwater
held in the soil by keyline-
cultivation, together with the
better aeration provided, con-
tinues and accelerates the pro-
cesses of soil-life, which is
fertility. Fertile soil is not
readily erodable.
Mr. Schlunke mentions the
“success” of soil-conservation
structures as put in by Soil
Conservation officers like Mr.
Woodham. Where one can
travel vast distances and see
the whole countryside com-
pletely dominated by the soil-
conservationist’s work, as I
have seen in some parts of
America, one has a right to
speak of the success of these
practices. But one can travel
over the whole of Australia and
large sections of America and
see only occasionally evidence
of their work on country that
badly needs either soil-restora-
tion or land-development.
The great good the soil-
conservation service has done in
Australia is in educating the
whole population to realise the
cause and dangers of soil loss.
A great deal more can be done
in this field of education, par-
ticularly in the proper associa-
tion of land-engineering and
sane agricultural practices.
At the same time I do not
think anyone is entitled to
assume in this day and age that
new practices cannot be dis-
covered or that present ideas
cannot be immeasurably im-
proved.
Of course, in any of these
land-development practices, we


moTORS piy LimiTEO
S 3 North George Street
SYDNEY
©
m
e
®“«lish ELECTRIC LIGHTING and POWER PEANTS
18/24 volt—3oo watt with “J.A.P.” li H.P. Petrol
—£ 46 - 32 volt—l2so watt powered by a 3 H.P.
Villiers” Petrol Engine—£9s. 230 volt—AO K.Y.A. with
a Meadows”—4 cylinder Radiator Cooled Petrol Engine
and Switchboard (as illustrated) —£280.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
53 North George Street, Sydney.
(Established in 1906)
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivators, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illus-
trated is the
“FARMERS
BOY”
CUTTER-
BAR.
YdSK
Write or telephone
your nearest State
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the
qttachments_that interest yohi:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BU -1611
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8651.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. S, Aust.:
A. M. Johnson & Sons Ltd., 200-204
Grenfell St., Adelaide. W 1496 & 1824.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
BETTER MOTORING
AND
FRIENDLY
Mobil
Service
Always buy
Mobilgos
and
Mobiloil
Mobilubrication
Accessories
Batteries
Tyres
at the sign of the
FLYING RED HORSE
a
Mobil
Mob
‘Joil
Mobil
Se nric e
So*
asm
G 552
soon come up against the eco-
nomic factor as it affects the
individual farmer and grazier,
and he will be the final judge.
If the cure and prevention of
soil-erosion can be made a highly
profitable undertaking for all
concerned, no problem remains.
In The Keyline Plan I have
sought to show how this may
be done.
P. A. YEOMANS.
Shearers* Cooks
“Overseer”: Engaging a
shearers’-cook can be a head-
ache. Even if you get a good
cook—and there are more bad
than good—he may be unsatis-
factory in other ways: he may
be “independent,” he may drink,
or have “itchy feet.” This last
is more common in small sheds,
with the bigger money of the
big sheds (where cooks are paid
on the so-much-per-man basis)
always beckoning.
Women-cooks aren’t popular.
Although they get the same rate
of pay as a man, some of them
think it a woman’s right to be
helped with the chores. The
men usually resent this almost
as much as they do the ban on
swearing.
But even the men-cooks,
nowadays, refuse to cut wood;
or to carry smoke-oh lunches
short distances to the shed.
Then there are the tempera-
mental cooks —the wood is too
green; the stove no good ; the
meat-house too small. The cook
is king in his kitchen, and some
adopt standover methods,
which succeed until they strike
a snag in some shearer or rouse-
about who can use his fists, and
does. More trouble.
In a joint mess, where the
men pay so much per head to-
wards the cost of the cook and
tucker, they have the power to
sack the cook. A disgruntled
shearer calls, a meeting and the
cook is sacked —and, as often as
not, replaced by a worse one.
Shearers like the mess-account
to work out cheaply. An experi-
enced cook can often manage
this, though it depends to some
extent on the number of men,
length of time at the shed and
cost of supplies and freight.
Some cooks are wasteful,
especially if the mess is worked-
out on the flat-rate allowed in
the award and the station-owner
pays for everything above that
figure.
A shearers’-cook works seven
days a week, but in local shear-
ing, where the men go to their
homes at weekends, he has an
easier time, and is still on the
pay-sheet for those periods.
This makes the total cost of
food less. But shearers pay for
the days' they are absent—
worked-out on a so-much-per-
head basis when the shed cuts-
out.
Sometimes the cook receives
a full day’s wages, although he
has cooked only one meal for
the day—say, on his arrival at
a new shed to cook the evening
meal, when shearing is to starts
next day. In this case the
shearers are charged a full day’s
mess.
Where do we find a shearers’-
cook in the off-season? He is
suitable, in most cases, only as
a cook —very few can adapt
themselves to other part-time
jobs. So, if riot resting, our man
would be employed in a guest-
house or hotel (at, usually, a
lower rate), ready to “sling it
in” when he can begin once
more the rougher, more carefree
life of the sheds.
"Yellows"
“Ninda”: Beware of green-
feed on fallows this summer —it
could be the weed wild-helio-
trope, which is prolific in
northern Victoria and southern
Riverina after heavy early-
summer rains.
Wild-heliotrope contains a lot
of copper. Too much copper in
a sheep’s liver causes toxaemic
jaundice, popularly known as
“yellows.” The copper causes
a breakdown in the bloodstream
and eventual death under stress.
“Yellows” occurs mainly in
breeds of British origin.
Although susceptible, the Corrie-
dale is affected less than the pure
British breeds.
Unfortunately, copper
accumulates from year to year.
If your sheep got a dose of it
last year, it might not take much
wild-heliotrope to kill them on
this season’s fallows.
Beware of buying “yellows” in
the saleyards. Pays to make sure
(if possible) that mobs for sale
have never eaten the weed.
Wool-tables
“C.A.A.”: Small wool-tables
are often the cause of overskirt-
ing, which adds up to a big
annual loss for woOlgrowers.
A table is too small if the
average fleece drapes over its
edge. A 12ft. by ’6ft. table, 3ft.
high, with lin. slats lin. apart,
is satisfactory. Sorters skirt on
top of the table and avoid over-
hang.
When skirting, pay special
attention to femoving fribs,
stained-pieces and second-cuts.
Skin-cuts, particularly in lambs’-
wool, should be looked for; a’s
stated here earlier, they can
rcause costly damage to wool-
manufacturing machinery.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
Earlier estimates continue to be confirmed, and there
is little change in the overall picture at present. The
cyclone which was indicated at Broome (W.A.) . for
January 16 came. It now remains to be seen if a repetition
will occur of the cyclone at Bowen (Q.) on January 30.
Good general rains should commence in Victoria and
the coastal areas of South Australia during this period,
although the Single cycle of 1919 suggests they may be
deferred to February.
As results come to hand the position will be clarified
considerably.
LENNOX WALKER.
Stock and Pasture
“Egg”: “Con” (B. 5/1/’55)
discusses the conservation of
fodder in the flush period for
use in lean times. The tradi-
tional approach is to pull the
top off the peak of production
to fill-in the trough when feed
is short.
Another approach is to try to
grow green-feed for the lean
period. You can plant fodder-
crops, such as rape, turnips, etc.
These may not even require
irrigation. Or you can irrigate
pastures.
Again, you can follow the
New Zealand practice of saving
the limited autumn flush of
pasture for use in the winter,
when growth has almost ceased.
Further assistance comes from
the efforts of geneticists, who
are breeding plants capable of
better growth in the lean
periods ; for instance, red-clover
in summer months.
These measures need hay and
silage to back them up, but
have the advantage of avoiding
curing-losses, and also handling-
costs, both of which raise the
price of stored nutriments in
hay and silage.
The aim should be to find
out how best to combine all
these methods to carry stock
over lean periods; not merely
to rely on traditional practices.
There is the further problem
of balancing stock requirements
against the requirements of the
pasture for maximum growth.
“Skyline” (B. 5/1//55) in effect
advocates light grazing, so that
maximum growth-rate of the
pasture can be maintained. This
would result in a lot of feed
being tramped into the ground,
or spoiled by dung. The pad-
dock would soon become rank
in patches, and very uneven.
Although more feed per acre
might be grown, there would be
little practical advantage, bef-
cause all of it wouldn’t be used
by the animals.
I suggest a better way of
increasing pasture-production is
to allow longer periods between
grazing: when the stock are put
in, let them eat the feed right
out. This way the feed will be
utilised more efficiently.
Pasture-utilisation, as distinct
from the job of growing pas-
ture, gets little attention in Aus-
tralia. Anyone interested in the
subject will find New Zealand
a happy hunting-ground.
Fodder-crops
“Billjim”: For February sow-
ing on fallowed land (in Vic-
toria) rye-corn will produce a
good bulk of high-quality feed
that can be used safely through-
out winter and spring as a
fodder-crop. For March sowing,
oats; in April the feed-barleys
are best.
For both oats and barley
seeding-rates are between 2| and
3 bushels per acre; rye-corn,
2 bushels, or 1 bushel with \
bushel Italian rye-grass. Drill
all cereals with lcwt. to l£cwt.
super, per acre.
Crosscuts
Harold Sarina, registrar of
N.S.W. Royal Agricultural
Society, reported three major
complaints about Australian
meat at Smithfield (U.K.):
carcasses too heavy, quality
uneven and deliveries unreli-
able: “I was told that this was
not the case with New Zealand
meat, and that the most suitable
carcasses for the English market
had hindquarters weighing
1601 b.”
* * *
U.S. State Department
announces sale of wheat and
cotton, to the value of $4l
million, to Yugoslavia.
* * *
C.5.1.R.0. tests with, cetyl-
alcohol, to check evaporation,
are interesting. Experiments are
not conclusive, as yet, but it
seems the cost will be about
O.ld. per lOOOgal. of water saved.
* * *
“North Queensland Register”
reports no professional ’roo-
shooters operating now in
western Queensland.
* * »
Downy-mildew reported in
vineyards around Chaffey,
Renmark, Glossop, Barmera and
Moorook (all S.A.). A serious
disease of vines, downy-mildew
can be controlled by copper
spray.
* * *
Geraldton (W.A.) tomato-
growers produced about
£330,000-worth last season:
Main markets, Perth and Mel-
bourne and (to a lesser extent)
Singapore.
Farm Hints
“Yarriam”: Don’t destroy
lambs born into your flock with
inverted eyelids. Just turn the
eyelids rightside-out, and hold
them there with a stitch. But
suspect your rams. Entropin—
“inverted eyelids” is a
hereditary deformity which a
ram can transmit though his
progeny. Never use rams from
such a flock for breeding.
“Quo Vadis”: Make a habit
of disconnecting one battery-
terminal when stopping the car
for any length of time in isolated
areas. A stuck relay or bridged
switch will take the life out of a
battery overnight. Greased
battery-terminals are easy to
remove and replace. To brighten
them and remove the copper-
sulphate deposit, wash with plain
water.
“J.” : If the tread of a front-
tyre is worn unevenly, some-
thing’s wrong with the front-end
assembly. Look for it.


%
1
CORRECTLY DRESSED!
Why not? No man to-day need be without a
smart, comfortable suit. You CAN now secure
a suit that is ALWAYS correct and right.
Using only pure Australian fleece wool, the
famous Crusader Mills have woven for us
Worsted Cloths, of beauty and strength; cloths
guaranteed never to fade or shrink. These attrac-
tive cloths, pre-tailored by Stamina into smart,
comfortable D.B. Suits, can be yours for only a
fraction of the cost you would reasonably expect
to pay. Yes, this suit is truly ideal for EVERY
WEAR everywhere. Stamina master-tailored De
Luxe Suits are available now at your own
Stamina Men’s-wear Store. With a rising wool
market and the prospect of a big. drop in wool
production, you are certainly wise to buy NOW.
ASK FOR
Stamina fY .J-
D'B/J UUS
'(TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
but, you know it’s all these
sensations. One ...”
“I know what you mean,” he
agreed equably, then turned to
tease the plump little junior as
she dunked her third biscuit.
He is kind, Sister Hennis
thought; but what on earth must
he think of me? As if liberated
from her body she experienced a
vision of herself as she would
be seen by his flat-blue eyes: a
mature strong-featured woman
uttering the overemphatic
inanities of a schoolgirl.
And, as the telephone rang
sharply she looked with cold
contempt at her, traitorous right
hand which had made an
undirected convulsive movement
across the tea-table. The junior
scraped her chair back and went
off to answer it. She returned.
“It’s for you, Sister.”
They all stood up as she Went
out. The nurses stacked the cups
on the tray.
It would not be a private call.
Messages were taken at the home
for staff on duty. And Robert
seldom rang until evening: he
called himself Mr. Roberts if he
had to leave a message. But if it
were Mr. Roberts, very
urgently?
It was the central ambulance-
station. A wagon was on its way
with a case of attempted suicide ;
corrosive poisoning. The siren
was shrilling down the street as
she gave Nurse Wilson instruc-
tions ; and they heard tyres
screaming as an ambulance
skidded into the dock.
“No more patients to be called
in, Nurse,” she told the junior.
“Would you go into the waiting-
room, please, and let them know
there’ll be some delay.” The
surgeon and Nurse Wilson both
glanced at her in surprise.
Apparently Sister Gwenn’s
system did not include notifying
patients of unexpected emer-
gencies. This consideration for
patients was habitual with her,
but the habit included a regi-
mentation of kindness.
Two ambulance-men came in
with the case, a woman on a
stretcher. The surgeon set to
work absorbedly, and as she
assisted him all extraneous
thoughts left her mind. Nurse
Wilson slipped round the door of
the cubicle to announce that* a
ward-bed was prepared upstairs
and that a wardsman was waiting
with a trolley outside.
Sister Hennis was helping to
transfer the patient from table
to trolley: Dr. Russell had said,
“She’ll be OX.”
Then she really looked at the
woman’s face for the first time.
The lips, shining under a lotion,
were blistering from chemical
burns. She felt immensely tired.
A thought was forcing itself into
her consciousness and conscious-
ness was fighting it back.
“Excuse me”—it was the
junior, her funny little fat face
excited and pink—“there’s a
police-sergeant outside.”
6 on, Sister,” Dr.
'"'Russell said. “We’ll get
the report over. You can call the
next patient in, Nurse.”
“The report?” She couldn’t
think properly. “Oh, yes, of
course.”
“Are you all right?” he asked.
She unclenched her hands
which, unknown to her, had
clasped each other until the
fingers were bloodless and
cramped.
“Of course I’m fine.”
The sergeant was brief and
matter-of-fact. As he rose to
leave, hauling himself out of the
desk-chair he boomed at them:
“Well, Doctor, I don’t suppose
you or me’s the sort the ladies
would take poison for. Not that
sensible ladies like Sister here
go in for such shenanigans.”
“Amazing how many do,” said
Dr. Russell. “I’m in court over
a similar case this afternoon.”
“Quite a day you’re having,
Doctor. And I suppose you can’t
always blame them. There’s this
Galveston woman now —the
divorce-case —she’d seem to have
plenty to complain of. They
say she’s a real nice woman.”
“I must be getting back,”
Sister Hennis said abruptly.
“Goodbye, then, Sister. I’ll be
ambling along to the station
myself. People like us with
plenty of work to do stay out of
mischief anyway, eh?”
Now she could not fight the
thought any longer. Dorothy
Galveston would have looked
like that woman when she had
taken poison. Robert’s wife came
to life for her. Yet, strangely
it made her feel easier. She could
see Mrs. Galveston in court,
fighting not for Robert but for
her own pride. And at the same
time she could see herself again.
Tidying the desk, sterilising
instruments and leaving every-
thing orderly for the lunch-hour
staff.
She saw a trained professional
automaton who was not to be
prevented by anything. from
doing her job as best she knew
how. A shadow which still
hovered oyer her, glamorously
mysterious, bore no relation to
anything as it was. The practical
tall woman she saw was far too
sensible to be made miserable
indefinitely by Robert or any
other man.
Let him sit in court and listen
to what his wife told them. Who
cared? Who wanted to know
how he felt about it? Who
wanted to be reassured about the
outcome of the hearing today or
to listen to plans for an improb-
able future?
Who would bother to answer
the phone, ringing at the
entrance-lobby of the nurses’
home? She paid no attention
and hurried along to her room.
Before she reached her door
Mary the maid called after her:
“Telephone, Sister.”
She made herself walk back
slowly.
TT could be anyone. Numbers
of her friends were familiar
with her lunch-hour. As she
walked she tried to recall the
words which, late last night, she
had rehearsed. “No, Robert, I’ve
had as much of this as I can
stand. If you had rung me
earlier . . . But it’s too late.”
“I suppose you’re spitting
chips at me, darling,” he said,
“and I deserve it.”
“No, Robert: No. Darling,
I’ve been so worried about you.
Are you all right?
“Look, Ailsa, I’m just round
the corner in my car. Could you
slip down to Mappe-street for
fifteen minutes. I want to speak
to you.”
Who wanted lunch?
“Yes. I’ll come.”
She raced to her room, threw
an overcoat over her uniform
and went out by the back-stairs.
She had worked through the
morning in out-patients, in the
same way she could endure
loving Robert. So much for
Matron. She was very strong.
HE was not looking out for
her, but was reading an early
edition of an afternoon paper.
She had to tap the car-door to
gain his attention.
As he leaned across to kiss her
she licked her lips. From last
night’s weeping, perhaps, she
could feel little blisters rising at
their corners.
central part of N. S. Wales
Parliament House was a wing)
in return for a qualified
monopoly of the liquor trade.
It is today Australia’s oldest
public building.
Governor Latrobe, of Vic-
toria, is represented. Robert
Dawson,'the first agent of the
Australian Agricultural Com-
pany, who arrived with his two
Noah’s Arks and 720 French
and Saxon sheep and the first
pure Durham cattle in 1825, has
a great-grandson on the com-
mittee.
The legendary proprietor of
Collit’s Inn sends his quota, and
Thomas Boulton, who built the
First Secretary’s office in Bridge-
street, which oldsters in Sydney
remember as the Education
Department before World War
I.
Descendants of Nathaniel
Lucas, who began Liverpool
Church, rub shoulders with the
family of J. B. Were, the
Ricketsons, of Melbourne, and
a naval chaplain of the Were
name.
As well, there are Ryries,
descendants of the Commissary
who came late in 1825 ; Rox-
burghs, and Spains from New
Zealand, and the Thorns, and
those old pastoral Western
Queenslanders, the Richardsons,
some of whose members picked
the driest spot available in the
’ninety flood.
The last one of the list
of club members who will cer-
tainly be present at the anni-
versary luncheon this year, and
the only one whose name begins
with the initial “Z,” is a des-
Cendant of a pioneer German
missionary family of Nundah
(Q.), which arrived with the first
famous band of New Australians
in 1838.
The newest full-membef is a
well-known Q.C., who traces
back to a military arrival of the
New South Wales Corps in
1790.
The club president is also
president of the Stock Exchange,
and his son commands the
Sydney University Regiment,
C.M.F.
The committee includes the
offspring of the Suttors, the
Robert Dawsons ; also of the
man who operated the first sav-
ings-bank for the convicts. There
are barristers, accountants, oil-
men, stockbrokers, pastoralists,
journalists. In the club are naval
officers and a general or two and
an ex-Commissioner of Police.
Most of the club-members’
ancestors were locked in fierce
contention in the early days. If
the original progenitors, instead
of the present generation, were
to attend the anniversary
luncheon of 1955 all together,
lovers of rough sport would pay
any price for a ticket of admis-
sion and reckon it worth while.
Skin and hair would fly with a
vengeance,
As it is, all old feuds are for-
gotten under the Rising Sun
badge, which was the club’s
symbol before the First A.I.F.
was born. The great-grandsons
of the men of the American and
Peninsular wars forgather with
the equally successful pioneer-
farmers. And at the bar the
thirsty descendants of mis-
sionary denouncers of the rum-
traffic may be seen sipping cool
double-Scotches with the lineal
offspring of those whom they
listed for certain hellfire. In the
dining-room the dffspring of the
early protagonists of sheep growl
just as loudly as that of the cattle
pioneers if the supply of the
menu’s famous oxtail runs out.
The Pioneer Club is a large,
happy? historic family, its mem-
bership curiously young and
virile.


Available from all booksellers
GREEN SPRIGS
By RAY ROBINSON - -18 s. 9d.
“This is more than just another cricket book. It ripples with Mr.
Robinson’s own rapier wit and sparkles with his apt choice of phrase.”
—Melbourne Herald.
COLLINS :: PUBLISHERS
SOUTH COL
Wilfrid Noyce
One man’s adventure on the ascent of Everest, 1953. Lavishly
illustrated with colour and black-and-white plates.
At all booksellers - - - 26/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON :: MELBOURNE :: SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
VANISHED WITHOUT TRACE
by Antoni Ekart
In 1940 the author was known to be on
the frontier between Poland and Lithuania;
in early 1947 he was put across the frontier
from Russia into Poland. For seven years
he had vanished without trace, and this book
is the story of those seven lost years. Here,
he has written not only an absorbing story
but a social and political document of the
highest importance. 20/- (post lid.)
JOURNEY BY JUNK by Willard Price
This book is written by a man who knows
Japan well—it is about Japan’s reaction to
MacArthur’s occupation, of the Japanese
reversion to old ways, the position of the
Emperor, militarism and the American pres-
sure to re-arm. To gather his information
he sailed on a small junk from end to end
of the Inland Sea, and travelled through
remote territories by train, bus and on
foot. 20/- (post lid.)
SCOTCH—THE WHISKY OF SCOTLAND IN FACT AND STORY
by Sir Robert Bruce Lockhart, K.C.M.G.
“A learned, lucid, rippling history of whisky by someone who says h'is interest in it is
purely amateur , . . as much a portrayal of its shrewd, wise author ... as a history of its
noble subject.” i.B/9 (post 9d.)
Write, ’phone or call in for these, and all the books you ivant to ,
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
consciousness... .The last phallic being of
the white man. Hunted into the death of
upper consciousness and the ideal will. Our
blood-self subjected to our will.... Ho-
tblooded sea-born Moby Dick. Hunted by
monomaniacs of the idea.
It is seldom that one sees works of
inspiration so matched by inspired
criticism, but Lawrence, as always, leaves
the reader wondering how much of the
brilliance of his perception is put into his
own personal problems, and how much
into the world-problem, and with the
uneasy feeling that much of Lawrence’s
inquest into consciousness is illegal
according to those very rules which the
inquest is seeking to set up. Against all
of which the vast lack-of-interest of the
surfing and cricket-watching democratic
majority applies a surprising balm to the
fretted soul.
A Sailor on Cook
Captain Cook told his own story so
well in his journal and has since been the
subject of so many biographies that
there seems little reason for John Gwyther
to add to the list his First Voyage
(Melrose), which, with an outline of
Cook’s boyhood, tells the story of the
voyage of the Endeavour and the “dis-
covery” of Australia.
However, there will, no doubt,
always be new readers pleased to meet
Cook as a grocer’s boy at Staithes, soon
lured to his destiny at sea aboard a collier
with JJie fortunate name of Freelove;
to see him with Wolfe at Quebec, in con-
siderable danger of being scalped when he
was charting the foreshores at night; to
learn of the brilliance of cartography and
steadfastness of character that took him
to command of the Endeavour at 40 ; and
to discover exactly why the transit of
Venus, to observe which he sailed for
Tahiti and so on to New Zealand and
Australia, should have been thought of
such importance —“it was hoped that the
results would assist in ascertaining longi-
tude by lunar observation.”
Mr. Gwyther, himself a sailor (having
served in the R.N., where he conceived
the idea of writing about Cook when he
was following the navigator’s tracks in the
vicinity of the Barrier Reef), is very
happy when he gets to Tahiti, with the
lively Polynesians stealing Cook’s quad-
rant or offering their unashamed caresses
to Joseph Banks; and indeed in all the
adventures of the voyage, whether Banks,
Dr. Solander and their negro attendants
are floundering in the frozen swamps of
Tierra del Fuego (where the two negroes
perished), or Cook is eating baked dog
in Tahiti, or a midshipman is catching a
wild Maori with a fishing-line and hook
from the ship’s side in New Zealand, or
the Endeavour strikes on a coral rock off
the coast of Australia and is very nearly
destroyed, the author writes with gusto.
It may be said that he brings to he
familiar story two qualities of his own:
the first, this seafaring vitality; the
second, a certain carelessness with facts,
coupled with an occasional woolliness of
comment.
For instance, if the persistent rendering
of the old spelling of Tahiti in chapter-
headings as “Otoheite” instead of “Ota-
heite” is perhaps a printer’s-error, Mr.
Gwyther is surely astray when he says
that the Maoris could have mustered
“thousands of warriors” to overpower
the Endeavour in a “really determined,
co-ordinated attack” —if the scattered
and mutually hostile Maori tribes had
ever met to “thousands” in those days
they would have been more likely to eat
each other than to chase along the coast
after Cook.
It is not clear, again, why Mr. Gwyther
should call Torres “that brave fool” nor
why he pictures the Spaniard as “driving
his tiny ship between New Guinea and
Australia from east to west to prove the
existence of a passage” —at that stage
nobody had proved the existence of
Australia.
There is a peculiar paragraph on page
106 purporting to give the “reason” for
the Maori attack on Cook and his men
when they first landed in New Zealand;
which, though it does amplify Cook’s
account a little, gives no reason whatever
—if a reason, indeed, requires any pro-
longed research when a warlike people
sees an invader on its coast. A little
later, rather to his own surprise, Mr.
Gwyther himself makes a cannibalistic
attack on Cook for saying that he was
“calm” when he ordered his boat’s crew
to fire on the Maoris when he was trying
to capture some of them from their canoe
—but Cook, as Mr. Gwyther’s own quo-
tation from the journal makes perfectly
clear, did not say that he was calm at the
time but that subsequently, “upon a calm
review,” he wished he had not given the
order to fire.
As a final example of this occasional
woolliness in the commentary, one may
quote the paragraph :
Still, it had given the Captain and gentle-
men a chance to have a more thorough look
at the strange inhabitants of Terra Aus-
tralis ; given the meticulotis Cook the
opportunity to note in his journal that they
expressed surprise, annoyance or impatience,
he was not sure which, by the words
“Tut-tut, tut-tut.” Whether or not we owe
these poetic expressions to the Aborigines
is of no importance, but the word “tut”
has eventually found its immortal niche in
the Oxford Dictionary.
Though in fact we do not, it would be
delightfully important if we owed this
expression to the aborigines; and the
word “tut” did not “eventually” finds its
way into the Oxford Dictionary as a
result of the incident with Cook, as the
sentence must mean if it means anything
. . . What Mr. Gwyther should have said
is—but, tut! the reader will doubtless
enjoy working it out for himself; as he
will also, with proper reservations, enjoy
First Voyage.
Reviewed Briefly
Diplomatic Conclusions: Roger Peyre-
fitte (Thames and Hudson). A novel of
the French diplomats and bureaucrats in
charge of foreign-office files during the
German occupation: the flight of the
politicians, the perplexity of officials left
behind as to how much to co-operate to
ensure the safety of the files ; and whether
to work for Vichy. The characters and
their decisions are clearly and sharply
drawn by the narrator, in the person of a
diplomat of the education-section; there
is a biting study of a French lawyer who
volunteered to help the German prosecu-
tors, and his attempts to rationalise his
situation; and side-references to many
real politicians and statesmen, Petain
among them. The background of war and
the events of the occupation are perhaps
more effectively brought home to the
reader because of the author’s calm and
unemphatic presentation of them, as are
the one or two episodes between the
narrator and his matter-of-fact and expert
mistress, and the weary cynicism of high
French officials attending a cathedral
service to honor the French dead. What
wit can do to render distinguished a
story of misery and disgrace, this novel
does.
„ *
The Young People: Gertrude
Schweitzer (Peter Davies). One of
America’s most successful magazine
short-story writers chooses an old theme
in a new and subtly provocative guise for
this novel of upper-middle-class family
life in an outer suburb of New York
city. The theme is the impossibility of
achieving true understanding of attitudes
between parents and children. But in
this case Zelda and Tony, the parents-
themselves products of the ’twenties
and successful revolutionaries against the
old-established tyrannic pattern of their
parents—are confronted with a boy of
20 and girl of 17 who appear to be far
less enterprising than they ever were.
Zelda expects her children to revolt—
she knows all the modem theories of
adolescent problems and is ready for
them, but Jim and Ann, far more moral
(and moralistic) than their parents were
at their age, simply accept what comes
rather conservatively, and obscurely wish
that the older generation would occasion-
ally put its foot down instead of being
modern and understanding about every-
thing. An F. 8.1. investigation provides
the drama of the novel, and Mrs.
Schweitzer writes competently always and
m occasional passages very well indeed.
* » *
m
: Byron—the Years of Fame, by Peter
Quenneli, is amongst a batch of recent
Penguins. It describes the period of
Byron’s life that began with his return
from the Near East in 1811 and ended
five y ear s later when he left England
for the last time, ostracised by that very
soc iety that had formerly adored him and
£°odemned by the same public which
«ad previously lapped up every line of
P°f tr -L" e ®°° j\,k a s* anc * jndiffer-
ent' . e P a ."* etl f mu , c^c !. e ™ ac * e °f his
n^ r . ria ® e Annabelle Milbanke, his
a s airs ac i y u a [ 1 o iri j. Lanffi and
° , women, and his allegedly incestuous
Wlth hl f h a tt" sist< -; r wef j Jf 16
5. incipa i causes of his downfall, and Mr.
? uennell describes these pitiful domestic
® reat ran^ness in
1 *
* * * *
Great Company : Peggy Chambers
(The Bodley Head). Sub-titled “The
Fight Against Disease Told for Young
People,” this is an excellent little book
giving brief biographies of Simpson,
Jenner, Laennec, Semmelweis, Pasteur,
Lister, Dunant (founder of the Red Cross
Society), de Veuster (Father Damien),
an d Ronald Ross. The significance of
the place held by each of these scientists
j n medical research and advancement is
explained, and good portraits of each of
them are given. Great Company pre-
supposes a certain amount of elementary
biological and physiological knowledge
as we ll as some historical background. It
would make a fine present or prize for
any except the most squeamish of High
School children, and would appeal par-
ticularly to youngsters with medical or
scientific ambitions.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 314
Across
I—Australian lake firm telephoned a
little creature. (11)
s—One leaves 10 across for a subject
of police disapproval. (3)
7 —Alternative phantom drops the cat
eras in children’s homes. (10)
10 —A ruler holds this movement of a
pendulum direction to an affirma-
tive. (4)
12 —Peruvian father takes a note on a
military award during such dis-
ablement. (14)
14—Why go after the pieman’s
acquaintance for the crime of sell-
ing church benefices? (6)
16 —Nippers which are not to be seen
with most new-born nippers? (5)
18 — Theatre pilot family whose house
fell into pronouns? (5)
19- —Bumpy end of one planet and the
start of another. (6)
22 — It is cowardly to rock literary
Ruth with such considerable reser-
vation in U.S.A. (11, 4)
23 — Black is firm on the legside. (4)
24 — World-famous pianist causes fric-
tion in a drinking mug. (10)
26 — A State’s used to be cut back. (3)
27 The discomforts of stealing a
sovereign parent in tins, but
working with great care and
effort. (6, 5)
Down
1 — Polish work for the piano to get
meat in the “den.” (6, 5)
2 Wood has changed. (3)
3 Australian Journalists’ Associa-
tion has 201 to ring for Corsican
capital. (7)
4 Unfittingly. (7)
5 Surgeon noticed Mother Hub-
bard’s deficiency. (8)
6 Toy for which Tokyo youth has
its heart set. (4)
8 — Ice-hockey players often hit this
cowslip occupant. (4)
9 Jupiter aimed to cuckold this
speed of one mile an hour before
I test the fit of the clothes. (10)
11 —Inefficient talkers canonise other
talkers. (10)
13 —At poker, I’d he inclined to bet
on these islands of northmost
New Zealand. (5,5)
15—Veil has been taken by this
pigeon. (3)
17 —Will, Otto, and Otway get onions,
according to everything in the
reports. (8)
19 — The French one’s food is no
longer glued. (7)
20— Volume upset Idriess with feel-
ing- (7)
21—Jonathan, cloak the head! (4)
23 —Intimidate the lower moon-
jumper? (3)
25 —Meal for which steak is trimmed
at both ends. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 313


* ***
m
m
rs
■ *n. :: ;
■
*
- ? I|§§
' §§
V--
If
-
r •-.-
SBWS
i % i J
%
mm
■-3 W -
,
life
■
★ Entirely New (XH.V. Engine
★ Up to 35 Miles per gallon
★ Superb top gear performance
★ Flashing acceleration
★ Smoother, quieter running
★ Brilliant new body styling
ic Brakes 40% stronger, safer
THE LOWEST PRICED
BIG CAR IN AUSTRALIA
£1199
plus sales tax
OVERDRIVE (optional extra)
gives even better top gear performance,
prolonged engine life, and 10%
greater fuel economy.
sill
■>
By appointment to the
late King George VI
Motor Car Manu-
facturers Humber Ltd.
n
D
V
I)
DISTRIBUTORS FOR HUMBER LIMITED
QUEENSLAND: John McGrath Motors (Qld.) Pty. Ltd., 324 Wickham
Street, The Valley, Brishane. Telephone: L 4871.
NEW SOUTH WALES: John McGrath Motors (Pty.) Ltd., 255-259
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. Telephone: MA 6838.
VICTORIA: Neal s Motors Pty. Ltd., 222 Exhibition Street, Melbourne*
Telephone: FB 3481.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA* Commercial Motor Vehicles Ltd., 165 Franklin
Street, Adelaide. Telephone: LA 2201.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd., 900 Hay Street,
Perth. Telephone: BA 9361.
TASMANIA: D. L, Hollis Motors Pty. Ltd., York and Si. John Streets,
Launceston. Telephone: 1676.
