

i
*§L
SOLERO
EVATT AND THE A-BOMB PAGE 4
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 76 —No. 3955
Wednesday, November 30, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
The Bulletin
No. 274: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
/"\NE of the finest examples of
ecclesiastical architecture in the
whole of Europe is York Minster, the
largest of the English medieval cathedrals.
It is renowned for the beauty of its west
front and for its 14th-century stained
glass.
The history of the Minster is
illuminated by fires. In 1829 a lunatic
named Jonathan Martin set fire to the
Choir and stalls, and the fire spread to
the roof, which collapsed. The damage
amounted to £65,000. In 1840 a careless
workman caused another fire, and this
time the bill came to £29,000. These
were not, however, the only fires which
York Minster has known. The original
church built in 627 was burnt down in
741, and its successor was destroyed by
the Danes in 1069. Thereafter building
was undertaken on very solid lines and
continued for 250 years until 1474, when
the Minster assumed the form in which
it appears today,
From the west end of the Cathedral a
splendid view is obtainable down the
whole length of the superb Early English
nave with its clustered columns, seven on
each side. The south transept, which was
built about 1240, is the earliest part of
the building still remaining, and it is
regarded as one of the finest examples
of Gothic architecture in England. In
the opposite transept are the famous
group of lancet windows known as the
“Five Sisters,” each fifty feet high and
five feet wide. They were the work of
John Romanus between the years 1241
and 1260, and are filled with beautiful
grisaille work which excites universal
admiration.
Another notable feature of the interior
is the elaborate choir screen, shown in
the accompanying illustration, which is
twenty-five feet in height and separates
the nave from the choir. It is a rich
and beautiful specimen of the florid style
of architecture prevalent in the reign of
Henry VI. The elaborate detail includes
fifteen life-size statues of English kings
in historically correct attire from William
I (1066) to Henry VI (1461).
The wealth of decoration is also evident
in the Choir, which was completed about
1400, and the Lady Chapel, which is
notable for its magnificent east window,
the largest in England. It contains more
than 2000 square feet of medieval
stained glass.
YORK MINSTER'S GLORIOUS CHOIR SCREEN, FLORID BUT BEAUTIFUL


BOOKHUNTER, fiox 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if sue-
HARDBINDINGS, 2 Ronald Av., Greenwich,
N.S.W. Ready cut materials, instns., to
hardbind 16 Penguins, Pans, professionally.
32/6 N.S.W.; 35/- Interstate. No COJ>-
Build a library the CHEAPEST way.
The Red Page
THREE FROM THE MOUNTAINS
Hillary's Story
Sir Edmund Hillary has missed a
great chance to make his High Adven-
ture (Hodder and Stoughton) differ-
ent from other Everest books, and to
enrich it in its own right, by failing to
give us the full story of his climbing
experiences in New Zealand. There is,
of course, much to be said for a book
about Everest by the man who climbed
it; but there is also, as John Pascoe
has shown us, a magnificent world of
adventure and snowy scenery to be
described in the Southern Alps. Nor
is beekeeping a subject to be sneezed
at.
There is, it is true, a little of his
New Zealand background in the first
few chapters of “High Adventure.”
Opening at the age of 16 —but surely
long before that he climbed at least a
tree —he describes his first skiing trip
to Ruapehu with a party of school-
boys, seeing the Chateau Tongariro by
night sparkling in “a fairyland of
glistening snow and stunted pines and
frozen streams” and viewing, from a
distance, the upper slopes of the moun-
tain “with respect and fear.”
Then, with just a paragraph of bee-
keeping, in which he says that during
the winter he “often tramped around
our lovely bush-clad hills”—there must
be a whole book cramped into that one
short phrase—he has his first trip to
the Hermitage, sees the famous climb-
ing-partners Stevenson and Dick
returning from the first grand-traverse
of Mount Cook from north to south,
decides “then and there to take up
mountaineering” and, with a guide,
climbs the peak named Olivier:—
We reached the crest of the ridge
and looked over into a magnificent
valley of great glaciers and fine
peaks. A few yards along the ridge
was a rocky outcrop. I couldn’t
restrain myself any longer and
scrambled quickly upwards. Next
moment I was on the summit of my
first mountain.
But the rest of his New Zealand
climbing is summed-up in four short
sentences:—
And then I met guide Harry
Ayres. Harry was New Zealand’s
outstanding climber, with a tremend-
ous reputation for brilliant ice-
craft. He took me under his wing,
and for three marvellous seasons we
climbed the big peaks together.
On the next page he is walking down
the Tasman glacier with George Lowe
when Lowe says “Have you ever
thought about going to the Hima-
layas?” and with that—and thereafter
mostly with George Lowe—he is off.
“High Adventure” is, then, chiefly
a book about climbing in the Hima-
layas; and, as such, well-written and
very readable. Possibly because the
Everest story is already so familiar
from Sir John Hunt’s book, which had
Hillary’s own account of the ascent
to the summit, but also because the last
lap of Everest, except for its height,
its steepness and its news-value, is by
no means the most exciting piece of
mountain to be climbed in the Hima-
layas, the real highlight of the book
is Hillary’s crossing of the Nup-la with
George Lowe and the British training
and reconnaissance expedition in 1952,
after a “death-trap” of overhanging and
avalanching ice-cliffs had turned them
back from Cho Oyu. The Nup-la is a
pass which leads to the west Rongbuk
glacier and the northern slopes of
Everest, and the climbers hoped to
see there the places made famous by
former expeditions.
Trying to find a route across the
pass they met a “smooth, holdless rock-
slab”—“Three times I started to throw
myself up it and three times I stopped
myself, my stomach tight with fear.”
They clambered up cliffs where “we
were fairly sure we couldn’t get a foot
higher. We were almost equally sure
we couldn’t get down again either.”
They slid down vast open crevasses
on a rope and perilously climbed
out of them. Sinking knee-deep
or neck-deep into hidden crevasses
they marched through “the worst snow-
conditions that George and I had ever
struck.” And, after getting to some
of the camps of the earlier expeditions
—“lt gave me an eerie feeling to look
at it, as though-the ghosts of Mallory
and Irvine and Smythe were still
flitting amongst the ruins” —they were
driven back by the monsoon and came
down in blinding snow:—
Already on our right we could
hear the dull boom as fresh snow-
avalanches swept down off the
bluffs on to the glacier. But we
couldn’t see anything! Straining my
eyes to recognise the way, I fumbled
downwards; clearing away the snow
on the steep slopes and cutting step
after step. Often I’d come to an
impossible drop or a gaping crevasse
and know I was on the wrong route.
And then I’d climb wearily back to
the last piece of track I knew and try
again. Many of the crevasses had
widened and many of our snowT
bridges had gone. But we found a
way down.
There is also a fantastic story of
Hillary and Lowe floating down the
flooded Arun River on their mattresses
and getting caught in a whirlpool
which alternately tried to dash them
against the cliffs and to suck them down
in the centre.
But, of course, all the other adven-
tures lead to the epic of Everest; and,
familiar though the story may be, it is
still interesting to have it retold by the
man who climbed the monster.
Hillary’s account of it includes a most
moving and dramatic picture of the
return of Charles Evans and Bourdillon
from their conquest of the south sum-
mit: how Bourdillon, when both were
exhausted and knew they had neither
time nor oxygen to go on to the top,
had wanted to tackle it alone; how in
the tent that night his mind kept
returning to the prize he had missed,
and how utterly exhausted he proved
himself to be next day:—
Poor Tom was still berating him-
self for not having gone on alone
from the south summit, and seemed
to be living in a vague mental depres-
sion from which he’d emerge every
now and then with a new set of
figures and times to prove that he
could have done it. We were only
thankful that he hadn’t tried, as
Charles Evans and the rest of us
were convinced that he would never
have returned Towards midday
they emerged from the tent and
started strapping on their crampons.
As I watched, Tom Bourdillon bent
gradually forward and then, to my
horror, fell full length on the ice.
For a moment he didn’t stir, while
the others waited helplessly. Then
he dragged himself on to his elbows ;
then on to his knees, and finally
to his feet. Swaying slightly, he
stood for a few moments gathering
his strength, and then took a few
slow paces upwards. The effort was
too much for him and he crashed
forward once again. To see Tom’s
great body sprawling on the ice
brought home to me, as nothing else
had, the dangers of high altitude—
the narrow margin between survival
and extinction.
The final account of the ascent to
the summit is told in different words
from the chapter which Hillary con-
tributed to Sir John Hunt’s book but
is essentially the same story. It finishes
on a fine note of comradeship: “I could
remember so clearly Charles Evans
and Tom Bourdillon, weary to death,
dragging themselves down to the South
Col; and John Hunt’s lined and
indomitable face as he handed me
his tiny cross while the wind battered
our tent; and the feeling of terrible
loneliness as George Lowe and
Gregory left us high on our little ledge;
and then, at the last, Tenzing’s smile
of triumph on the summit.”
Mont Blanc by Moonlight
Mountaineering, which is a sport for
most, is for Captain Mike Banks, Royal
Marines, an applied art; he has
managed to convince the British Army,
as he explains in his book, Commando
Climber (Dent), that the commandos
of future wars will be all the better
for being able to walk up vertical or
overhanging cliffs. Besides, it makes
soldiers, in the captain’s pleasing
phrase, “as fit as fleas.”
In practice, this means that when
Captain Banks is not on holidays
climbing the Matterhorn or Mont
Blanc he is teaching soldiers how to
climb in Cornwall or how to ski and
climb in Scotland. That this leaves
him little time for other pursuits doesn’t
seem to worry him: take him to a
dance and he would only be estimat-
ing the tallest girl in the room . . .
It is remarkable how his duty carries
him to mountains that just have to be
climbed. From a climbing-school at
Malta he was able to thumb a set of
plane-rides all round the Middle East
until he was set down in Cyprus; and
there, eschewing the seductions of the
officers’ mess, he set out to climb to
the castle of Buffavento. This ancient
fortress is at least as early as Richard
Cceur de Lion; the south approach a
dangerous and difficult goat-track, the
north side a precipice that had been
coveted but never climbed. With two
marines and 1000 ft. to go two-and-a-
half hours from sunset, scaling ice-
chimneys and clinging to ice-coated
holds without an ice-axe, Captain
Banks went up the north face: his
first “first.”
That was in 1948. Another set of
“firsts” came in 1952, on his second
expedition to Greenland as a member
of the British North Greenland Expedi-
tion. Delayed for three months at
Cape Rink, waiting for the sea to
freeze hard, he and his friend Richard
Brooke, a naval surveyor, found a
Danish map of the Barth mountains,
and set out to climb the Barth “Matter-
horn” and “Widspitze” peaks, a long
walkabout, menaced by thick-headed
musk-oxen, with the certainty of
having climbed where man had not
climbed before.
But. Captain Banks’s best “first” was
over Mont Blanc in 1951, on the route
established by Graham Brown and
Smythe in 1928 —the “Route Major,”
No one had been over it without a
guide since then; but Captain Banks
and his friend Richard Brooke, of
course without guides, thought how
interesting it would be to do it by
moonlight . . . The Captain has saved
this nightmare, out-of-sequence, for
the end of his book; you know he will
get out of it, because here he is writing
the book, but you clutch at the covers
reading it:—
So far the climb had gone well
.... .Now the mountain had a differ-
ent temper, accentuated by our
passing from bright moonlight into
the darkness of the overhanging
rocks. Above loomed an unpromis-
ing wall which was breached in only
one place. The rocks were north-
facing and received little or no sun,
and. the ledges were covered with
unconsolidated powder-snow: we
were, in' fact, faced with the ascent
of a Very Difficult under Scottish
winter conditions, at night, at a
height of over 14,000 ft. and after
nine hours of climbing....
Steep snow-covered rocks led to
that feature which has been
described as a chimney, but which
to me appeared more of a short over-
hang. Knowing the reputation of
this bit of rock, I took the pre-
caution of flicking the rope over a
convenient bollard to form a rough
running-belay before I committed
myself. Footholds were almost
non-existent and the handholds were
snowed-up. After hanging from
one hand and brushing snow off the
holds with the other, I was too arm-
weary to heave myself up, so I
climbed down, rested, removed such
unnecessary impedimenta as sack and
axe and made another attempt. It
went better this time, but just as I
exerted my full strength a hand-
hold, which was probably nothing
more than a semi-frozen stone, came
away. Desperately I grabbed at
something, anything, and in a series
of contortions wriggled over the top.
Then I hauled up the sacks and tied
them to a rock to keep them out of
the way. A step or so further on I
made a long, exposed step-across
which brought me on to a sloping
shelf of snow-covered ice. On the
wall which rose above the shelf I
found a minute spike of rock behind
which the rope would just run.
Thrusting my axe into the snow, I
held the rope behind the spike with
both hands and called to Richard to
come on.
The captain has a short way with
vertigo—only known one genuine case
of it in his life, he says; chap went out
to it halfway up a cliff on a rope. The
rest —funks, cowards. Well, he has
earned his point-of-view: another sur-
prise he saves up for almost the end
of the book is that he wrenched his
arm out of its shoulder-socket during
commando-training early in the war,
and that all this climbing since the
war has been done with an arm likely
to detach itself at any moment —as it
did twice in Scotland before a London
surgeon fixed it for him properly.
It is a wonderful book of climbing
and courage: of climbing in Cornwall
and Skye, of a hilarious group of
Glasgow madmen among the snow and
ice of the Scots gullies; of disdain for
tourists hauled up the Matterhorn by
guides; of exploration in Queen Louise
Land and the crossing of its ice-rivers
(barelegged) and its glaciers; and, for
the mountaineer, it could have some-
thing of the interest that the writings of
Berlioz and Debussy have for
musicians.
The Sherpa's Viewpoint
There seems no reason to doubt that
Tenzing’s autobiography, as told to
»he American James Ramsay Ullman
in Man of Everest (Heinemann), is
Tenzing’s own story exactly as he
wanted it to be told; and it makes a
rare and absorbing book.
Not the least of its attractions is
that it brings us into contact with
Tenzing’s stalwart and remote people:
how the Sherpas, 100,000 of them in
all, live in the high uplands of the
eastern Himalayas, their name mean-
ing “man from the east,” their origin
somewhere in Mongolia; how in their
harsh, stony soil they grow wheat,
barley and potatoes and, like. Emile
Mercier, are greatly addicted to yaks;
how Tenzing himself was bom in the
village of Tsa-chu, meaning “Hot
Springs,” only a day’s march from
Everest, probably in the Year of the
Hoa, or Hare—the Tibetan calendar
has a cycle of 12 recurring years, six
male and six female, all named after
animals, like the Year of the Horse,
the Tiger, the Ox, the Bird, the
Serpent; how his mother’s name was
Kinzom, his father’s Ghang La
Mingma, and his own original birth-
name was Namgyal Wangdi, and how
he was changed to Tenzing Norgay on
the advice of a great lama from Rong-
buk who said he was the reincarnation
of a very rich man who had lately died;
how his sister became a nun in the
monastery at Thyangboche but, after
seven years, left to marry a monk (“In
our religion there is no disgrace if a
monk or a nun gets married; but they
can no longer stay in a monastery”);
how he remembers, far back into
infancy, that same sister giving him
hot fresh milk from the yaks to drink.
There are, of course, many things
from that time that I have for-
gotten, but a few I remember well.
One is riding round on the back of
one of my older brothers, who is
now long dead. Another is the
animals in winter, when they were
crowded into the lower story of
our house, and how they steamed
and smelled as they came in out of
the cold. Still another is the rest
of us, the family, almost as crowded
in the upper story: all of us packed
together in no space at all, with the
noise and the stenches and the smoke
from the cooking, but happy and
contented because we did not know
there was any other way to live.
Developing from this simple back-
ground, “Man of Everest” is, of course,
{Continued on page 35)


\\w/ /
I
10
9
: v,..
m
• ■
X =-H
8
1
m
7
5
8.30 a.m. to noon
is the best time to shop
Now that you’ve "simply got to do" your Christmas shopping —here’s something worth remembering:
Between 8.30 a.m. and noon is the coolest, most sensible, uncrowded portion of the day!
Anthony Horderns’ open at 8.30 a.m., so that you can enjoy your expedition where gift-choosing is
comfortable. Come, have breakfast with us, then spend a pleasant day in our gift-packed store,
and do all your Santaclausing in one building without Santacruising around the hot city! At
Anthony Horderns’ you’ll find really unusual gift ideas on every floor! At noon, enjoy pleasant
"music while you lunch” in our cool second floor restaurant. For the children we’ve put on the
bissest Christmas attractions ever
Santa in Santaland
is on his big golden throne, waiting to hear
from every little boy and girl what they want
for Christmas. Then, take the kiddies through
Santa’s Toy Shop
(by Walt Disney), where all Santa’s little elves,
fairies and gnomes are busy making toys for him
to take on Christmas Eve. After that, see the
Free Puppet Show
Nicky’s Christmas Snowman, on the Fourth Floor.
This is the wonderful story of Nicky, his dog,
and the Snowman that they build for good luck.
You 11 meet some bright party characters
Aboo, the Ball Balancer; Tipsy, the Juggler;
Spildge, the Trumpet Player;- and Percy,
who is a very Grand Piano. Nicky and his
clever little dog do some tricks, too, and
the Snowman has a big surprise for every'
one. Six times daily, Monday to Friday,
10.0, 11.0, 12.0, 1.0, 2.0 and 3 o’clock.
On Saturdays, 2 sessions—lo.o and 11.0.
Lyn Lavelle
Before you leave the Store, be sure to take the
kiddies to our Ground Floor Picture'framing
Department to see the famous quick - sketch
artist—Lyn Lavelle. She will do a life-like
drawing of your child in 10 minutes. Fee is
12/6, and each sketch would make a good gift.
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
nthony
The “Home” of Santa Claus—Bo9sl


The Bulletin
Wednesday, November 30, 19SS
Vol. 76—No. 39SS
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
EVATT AND THE A-BOMB
IF it were possible to take seriously the prospect
that Dr. Evatt might become Prime Minister as
the result of the Federal election the situation
would represent a crisis with the possibility of
world-wide rupture in our defence relationships.
Luckily there is little danger of this happening,
though there is a danger, in view of the queer
electoral method adopted for the Senate, that the
Government may have a sweeping victory (with
an increased majority) in the Lower House, accom-
panied by a deadlock in the Senate if the Senate
vote in New South Wales and South Australia is
not distinctly in favor of the Liberal-C.P.
Dr. Evatt’s relationships with the Communists
have not only appalled members of his own party
and many “Labor”-voting Australians (as well as
those not of his political color) ;"they have startled
overseas Governments in the Western Hemisphere.
There has/been so persistent a trust of Russia
throughout Dr. Evatt’s career, as a Minister and
Opposition-leader, that his appointment to any
office connected with defence or foreign affairs
would be viewed with alarm by our over-
seas supporters, the United States and the United
Kingdom. And in view of his attitude on the
Petrov commission and his obvious intention to
destroy the Security-service if elected, his promo-
tion to office would be a matter for more than equal
apprehension in Australia.
Dr. Evatt became a Minister at the end of
1941, and one of his first acts was to secure the
release of two interned Communists who had been
caught red-handed planning sabotage of war-
industry. Mr. Holt described his action as a “shame-
ful surrender to Communist-ridden unions.” He
at once moved towards the appointment of a mis-
sion to Moscow. The Australia First movement,
the special hate of the Communist party at the
moment, quickly found itself in trouble. A month
after Dr. Evatt became Attorney-General and
External Affairs Minister he was campaigning
publicly to take control of Security Intelligence out
of the hands of the military and vest it in his own
hands. During the first year of war in which he was
Minister for Security the Communist party, which
was still an illegal body, grew to its greatest strength
and carried on the greatest member-building
campaign in its history.
At the end of 1942 the ban was taken off the
party. A majority of the trade-union advisory
panel of the “Labor” Government consisted of
Communist functionaries of the type of Thornton
and Healy. At the end of the war questions arose
as to what was to happen to Security-service. Dr.
Evatt explained (“Hansard,” VoL 186, p. 417,
March 20, 1946): —
There is no intention, I assure the House,
to have a permanent peace-time Security-service
such as was necessary in war-time; nevertheless
there will have to be in the Investigation Branch
of the Attorney-General’s Department some
officers whose duty will be to watch Security
matters in the interests of the country.. .The
exact form of the service in Australia has to be
determined, but I assure honorable members that
the war-time activities of the Security-service are
being wound up.
MR. FRANCIS: —And no new department is
being created?
DR. EVATT: —There will be no new depart-
ment. The service is being brought under the
chief of the Investigation Branch, who will deal
with matters that cannot yet be completed.
Next year (in 1947), however, Mr. Harold Holt
moved for a royal commission to inquire into the
activities of the Communist party at a time when
it appeared likely soon to take control of Australian
industry and when Ministers’ offices, departments
and seats of learning seemed to be Red-anted, and
the country was becoming aware, and members of
Parliament continually pointed out, that attempted
Russian espionage through Communist agencies
was going on in Australia the same as had been
revealed by the Gouzenko inquiry in Canada more
than a year before.
Then Dr. Evatt, while admitting for once that
the Communists might be playing a false and
traitorous part, stubbornly refused both to believe
the obvious fact that Russia was associated with
their operations or that it would be possible to hold
an inquiry. Having told the House in March, 1946,
that the Security-service was practically wound up,
he now declared that a royal commission on Com-
munism would be dangerous to Security opera-
tions (“Hansard,” Vol. 191, p. 2459, May 15,
1947):
The Investigation and Security-service and
the Defence Intelligence Branch know everything
that has been stated by honorable members on
this subject—and a great deal more. The officers
of those branches are responsible for our security;
they are the eyes and ears of the Government in
connection with national security, and they can
be trusted. Further —and this is important a
public inquiry would undoubtedly have the effect
of impeding them and frustrating their work in
obtaining information required by the Govern-
ment. .. .Investigations are in safe and experienced
hands....
He said that the result of a commission of
inquiry would be “a premature disclosure of infor-
mation,” which would “compromise the sources of
information and thus jeopardise the future work of
the Security-service... .it would inform undesirable
parties of the methods under which their activities
were kept under notice.... and would not add to
the information already possessed by the Intelligence
Branch of the Defence Department or the Investiga-
tion Branch of the Security-service... .The way to
deal with Communism is public criticism and con-
demnation. Our Security-service can be safely left
in the hands of the Government and its advisers.”
The Investigation Branch was administered by
himself.
His is a bewildering statement, read in conjunc-
tion with his general condemnation of the veiy
principle of using a Security-service at all in his
activities before and after the Petrov commission.
It is doubly bewildering coming from a Minister
who had told the House a year before that milijary
security was being completely wound-up.
But it has other implications in the light of
the fact that at the time he made his 1947 state-
ment the Security-service was, in fact, practically
“wound-up,” and that the spies of the M.V.D. had
something like an open slather in the Minister’s
own department —that there was, as the Petrov
royal-commissioners found, between 1945, when
the Security-service was marked down for destruc-
tion, and 1948, “a serious situation” in Dr. Evatt’s
department; there was then a large group of Com-
munists and Communist-supporters in the External
Affairs Department who were passing-out informa-
tion to the master-spy of the Soviet Union.
The fact is clear that at the time when Dr.
Evatt used the Security-service and its work as an
excuse for not agreeing to a royal commission into
Communist activity, there was no Security worth
mentioning; that early in the following year—vide
the Petrov-commission report, p. 117—evidence was
“collected by Crown officers” and placed before Mr.
Chifley confirming that “Security measures were
inadequate,” and that “this information, or an
assessment of it, so impressed the then Prime
Minister [Mr. Chifley] with the necessity for greater
security in Government departments, particularly
the Department of External Affairs” [whose
Minister, Dr. Evatt, controlled Security in his posi-
tion as Attorney-General] “that he formed the
present Security-service A. 5.1.0.”
Dr. Evatt’s statements are as difficult to explain
as the apparent ease with which Communists,
friends and near-relations of known Communists,
supporters of Communist-views and fellow-traveller
bodies and regular associates of Communists found
their way into high levels of the Department
of External Affairs during his term of office, when,
according to himself, there was an efficient and
trustworthy Security-service—which must not be
hampered by official and public inquiry into
seditious activities of the Communists and Soviet
officials.
On March 13,1946, a month after the Canadian
Government’s revelation of the Ottawa spy-plot,
and a week after his own announcement about the
liquidation of the war-time Security-service, Dr.
Evatt discussed, in a debate on foreign affairs
(“Hansard,” Vol. 186, p. 204-5), the implications
of the Soviet Union’s grabbing of the Baltic and
other countries: —
The real question is what is the underlying
intention and purpose of the Soviet Union [i.e.,
in its expansions]... .One is presented almost daily
with the monotonous question—does Russia intend
aggression? Having no dear evidence to the
contrary and having during the last four years
come to know some of Russia’s greatest states-
men, I take the view that the Soviet Union’s
policy is directed towards self-protection and
security against future attack. In my own opinion
its desire is to develop its own economy and to
improve the welfare of its peoples. That is my
view; perhaps it is wrong That is the opinion
upon which I act.
And as to how he would have liked to act, in
spite of the revelations of spying at Ottawa the
previous month, was shown by a further statement
(“Hansard,” Vol. 186, p. 630, March 26, 1946):
The honorable member [Enid Lyons] also
referred to the question of atomic energy. I
believe that the use of atomic energy has been
one of the main causes of suspidon between
Russia and the other United Nations. In the
middle of the war atomic weapons were developed
and arrangements were made for the use of atomic
power, as we know, without making any of our
discoveries known to our ally, Russia, which was
engaged against the common enemy.
That undoubtedly created distrust and
suspicion, and I hope that the establishment of
the Atomic Energy Commission by the United
Nations, of which Australia is a member, will
lead to greater trust between Russia and the
United Nations in the future. I ask for no special
treatment for the Soviet Union, but I urge that it
be accorded the same treatment as is accorded to
its war-time partners. It must be remembered
that the war is only just over, that Russia has
been our ally, and those who suggest our ally
has become our enemy within a few months are
on the wrong track.
In comment on this it needs only to be recorded
that the Canadian Government and its Gouzenko
commission in reports just then issued, and the
Canadian and British courts, were obviously as
wrong in Dr. Evatt’s eyes as the Petrov royal com-
missioners at a later stage; that at the time his speech
was made the acting-head of the Post-Hostilities
Planning Division of Dr. Evatt’s department-
appointed in “the face of strong protests by two
responsible persons on the ground of his pro-Soviet
sympathies”—was lan Milner, a well-known Com-
munist now a refugee in Prague, and that he was at
that time representing the department on the
Defence Post-Hostilities (All-services) Planning
Committee, which, according to the Petrov com-
missioners, “dealt with highly secret material, some
of it supplied by Australia’s friends.”
The then research-officer of Dr. Evatt’s Post-
Hostilities Planning Division was Communist
ex-official J. F. Hill, brother of E. F. Hill,
later secretary to the Victorian branch of the party
and the party’s counsel before the Victorian royal
commission of 1949 and the Petrov royal commis-
sion.
Dr. Evatt’s private secretary at that time was
a man who admitted that on the eve of his appoint-
ment in 1941 by Dr. Evatt he had signed a letter
in which he advocated that the Australian Govern-
ment “show its sincerity” by implementing “social
legislation now, using Russian principles as a basis,”
because “it is to Russia the people look for a prac-
tical example of what can be accomplished in a
system differing from our own.”
Dr. Evatt’s Ministerial typist, one of the best-
known young Communists in the country and
foundation-secretary of the Eureka Youth League,
had for much of her period of service, 1944-46, “a
room to herself which adjoined the Minister’s room
with a connecting-door.” She took documents
from the External Affairs Department to Clayton,
the Soviet Union’s master-spy, on several occasions,
having “volunteered to report anything she came
across which might be of interest to the Communist
party.”
In view of the fact that the United States felt
justified in executing the Rosenbergs, Britain in
jailing Dr. Fuchs, and Canada in sentencing a num-
ber of traitors who implemented the view that
British-American atom-information in 1945-46
should be shared with Moscow, it seems unlikely
that election of anyone with Dr. Evatt’s tolerance
of Soviet methods to control defence policy and
international relations would be popular with our
allies.
This notwithstanding the approval it might
meet with in Moscow, whose leaders —judging by
his correspondence with Molotov and his recent
speeches-—Dr. Evatt is still prepared to trust just
as implicitly as he was in 1946 directly after the
t Gouzenko revelations.
Blunders In Ecafe
“In the ACT”: At a time when Australia is specially
concerned with the problems presented by the
expanding populations of near-by A.sian nations,
and on trends of development, industrialisation and
fertility, someone in that section of U.N. known
as Ecafe (Economic Commission for Asia and
the Far East) neglected to tell Australia (a large
contributor to the funds) of the demographic con-
ference now being held in Bandoeng, Java. As a
result, it wasn’t possible to send an informed and
briefed delegation from Australia, and the best
that could be done at the last minute was to ask
the Second Secretary of the Embassy in Djakarta
to attend, and to send back a report.
This blunder in Ecafe’s New York office
means that Australia’s views, which should have
been expressed firmly and fully before the delegates
of the numerous nations and international bodies
represented at the gathering, may not be made
known adequately. Our representative can’t be
expected to be familiar at short notice with all the
matters involved, and our voice will suffer in
consequence. In addition, it may not be possible
to learn all that might have been learned about
developments in the territories of our near-
neighbors. Mortality trends, population-growth and
-structure, internal migration, capital-formation and
investment among all the countries of the area are
among the subjects now being debated.
Doubtless the final reports will be available in
voluminous detail, but this will hardly compensate
for the oversight.


MORE MOTHS


PLAIN ENGLISH
With H-bomb Chorus
Proceedings by the Cominform before
the Geneva meeting of Foreign Ministers
and subsequent developments have
shown that the West has once again been
sold a Red pup by the Kremlin. But the
West, and especially the press of the West,
is a whale for punishment.
The whole of Moscow’s openhanded
and friendly manoeuvres of the past few
months have been a cross between a
spy-ring operation and a softening-
up process which would allow the
organisers of the cold-war to bore deeply
into the soft underbelly of the West and
infect its fabric. Under cover of the
and caviare dinners, and the in-
spection of British and American indus-
trial plants and farming technique, a vast
sweeping offensive in South-East Asia and
the southern Mediterranean has been
organised, of which the ultimate effect
cannot yet be told.
Overnight, at the right moment, the
cloak of friendliness was thrown off at
Geneva and hate blossomed once more.
The official organ of the Cominform,
published in Bucharest, heralded the
change in its issue of November 4, while
the Geneva sittings were in their prelim-
inary and still-trusting stages.
It nullified all the protestations which
had been served up in the previous few
months that Russia had no longer any
interest in world revolution by announc-
ing, in flaring black headings, that
November 7, the anniversary of the Rus-
sian revolution, was a “great day of re-
joicing for working-people of the whole
world,” asserting that “the unfading light
of the October Revolution illumines the
road to the rebirth and regeneration of
all the exploited and oppressed. India,
Burma, Indonesia, Egypt and other
countries in Asia and Africa have taken
the path of independent sovereign
development.”
It asserted that “the immortal ideas of
Marxism-Leninism light up the world
with increasing brilliance.... and, like a
beacon, illumine for the peoples the
bright path to Socialism.”
The little-advertised commercial agree-
ment made between the Soviet Union arid
Burma this month seems to be a long first-
step towards leading that unfortunate
country out of the British Common-
wealth and behind the Iron .Curtain as
a satrapy of Moscow or Peking.
But the proceedings of Khrushchev
and Bulganin in India are the most
illuminating of all. It can be said with
assurance that never have the represen-
tatives of a visiting Power on foreign
soil engaged so openly and impudently in
a provocative attempt to sway local poli-
tical history, to insult the host-country’s
friends, allies and benefactors in the way
in which these two avatars of world-
revolution and Russian world-conquest
have done.
Their impudence went the length of
informing . Americans whom they en-
countered working on industrial projects
in India that the United States had an
Iron Curtain which shut out friendly
Russians while the Soviet Union was a
free and open playground for all to enter.
They did not, of course, expect the
Americans or anybody in the Western
world or in Russia to believe this non-
sense. It was a piece of propaganda de-
signed to be propagated, under the shadow
of Nehru (with an inference from his lack
of any contradiction that he could not
deny the statement), among the ignorant
millions of India whom the visit is in-
tended to seduce away from allegiance
to the British Commonwealth.
The explosion of six large nuclear-
bombs close enough to Japan to spread
radioactive rain over Tokyo was quickly
recorded with alarm throughout South-
East Asia.
These operations obviously were in-
tended to provide an orchestral chorus of
menace to accompany the suave and cun-
ning blandishments which have been a
feature of the Indian visit, along with a
threatening indication . of what the
crowded peoples of the Indian cities may
expect if they dare to line themselves up
with civilisation instead of with the bloody
tyranny of the Kremlin and its slave-
system.
Unrest and the Election
Coming as they do'-in the middle of the
election-campaign, the Sydney tram-bus
dispute and the Brisbane railway-strike
have a very peculiar air about them.
They reek of Red methods and objectives.
The bus-union has never objected to
one-man buses run by private enterprise,
even though the drivers work harder, are
not as well paid as the State employees,
and don’t have long-service leave or free
tram- and train-travel, along with holiday-
travel for their families on the railways.
But right in the middle of a Federal
campaign, in which smoothness of trans-
port will be an efficiency factor on
election-day, the union’s leaders have be-
come unyielding.
The Cahill Government seems to know
what is happening, and for once is—on
the surface —more than usually firm in
its approach, but not firm enough.
And the whole proceeding seems the
more cynically dishonest and conceived
in bad faith because one-man buses have
been used, without producing objections,
on North Sydney runs on Sundays since
1953.
Does somebody want a general strike
at this juncture? Certainly not the
•Transport Department. Can it be possible
that it is hoped to cloak the issues of the
election and solidify union support for
Dr. Evatt and his Leftist followers by
means of a general strike? Stranger
plans have been made by the kind of
organisers who have the transport-
stoppages in hand. And it should be
marked that Dr. Evatt has observed
deadly silence so far about what is
happening in his home city.
One-man Buses
On Monday several more Sydney bus-
routes were added to the “discontinued”
list as fresh batches of drivers refused to
man the 43-seat buses and were handed
their dismissal-notices. In a radio-state-
ment at the weekend a spokesman for the
Tram and Bus Employees’ Union claimed
that the busmen had public opinion on
their side as the public realised that it
was asking too much of a man to expect
him to handle a large bus and collect
fares, too. What the spokesman didn’t
explain was why the union itself has two
views on the subject—why it accepts the
vehicles on runs conducted by private
bus-proprietors, but rejects them on Gov-
ernment routes.
As Transport Minister Wetherell said
last week, “Buses of the type operated at
will for private employers are declared
black when they are the property of the
people.”
Mr. Wetherell listed some of the “con-
cessions granted to the members of the
union in recent years” and compared
their conditions and privileges with those
of the men on private buses:
Driver’s margin over basic wage: £4 2s. 6d.
(Government buses); £3 2s. (private
buses).
Extra for one-man bus: 155.; 10s,
Annual leave: 3 weeks; 2 weeks.
Long-service leave: 3 months after 15
years; another 3 months after 5 more
years; 3 months for each additional 10
years. Private buses: 3 months after
20 years; 6£ weeks for each 10 years
thereafter.
Retirement: Superannuation or gratuity;
private buses —no rights.
Injuries: Full accident pay; private buses —
normal worker’s-compensation.
In addition, the Government men are
entitled to an all-lines rail-pass for them-
selves, their wives and families while on
annual leave; free travel on trams and
buses to and from work, or half-fare on
trains.
Mr. Wetherell refuses to believe that
the majority of Government tram and
bus employees are as “basely ungrateful”
as the union’s policy implies. The general
public, on whose sympathy the union
spokesman is counting, may begin to
wonder whether the sympathy shouldn’t
be coming their way instead. They may
also wonder whether the present chal-
lenge to the Government’s authority isn’t
the direct result of all the concessions
granted in the past —concessions which,
on the Minister’s word, cost more than
£700,000 a year.
The Minister said he wondered why
the union permitted its members to work
one-man buses for private employers but
not for the Government. His own figures
supply the answer. Despite heavy losses
which have to be made up by the tax-
payer, the Cahill Government has granted
concession after concession—it is so easy
to be generous with other people’s
money—and has encouraged the belief
that it has only to be prodded hard
enough and it will yield again. Last
week Mr. Wetherell appeared to be in
earnest and to believe that the Govern-
ment would stand firm. The union
appeared to think otherwise.
On Monday departmental officials
were considering a suggestion from Con-
ciliation Commissioner Tonkin of a
trial period during which a committee of
three would study the working of the
buses. As the proposed committee would
consist of a departmental officer and a
union official, this seems equivalent to
leaving the decision to the chairman, the
third member of the committee. The
union suggests that he should be chosen
from a panel consisting of Police Super-
intendent Gribble (who has already
expressed disapproval of one-man buses
in the city), the chairman of the Crown
Appeals Board (Mr. Justice Weir, former
Minister for Transport), and T. Arm-
strong, M.L.A. (Independent “Labor
member for Kahibah).
Big Evatt. Little Evatt
Nothing could be more embarrassing to
the A.L.P. than the affection which the
Communist party has shown for its
leadership and its policy. This has been
evident throughout the country in a way
more marked than at any time since the
days of J. S. Garden.
The Communist party has not an-
nounced any separate detailed policy it-
self. It is not aiming to win with its
own strangely numerous flocks of candi-
dates, all ready to lose their deposits.
Its approach is that “the united front of
the working-class” must see that “Men-
zies is swept out” and Labor swept in.
Though leaders of the party like
Sharkey, Healy, of the Watersiders, and
J. R. Hughes are candidates and are sup-
ported by Rupert Lockwood and other
notorious figures of the Petrov commis-
sion, the emphasis is on Dr. Evatt; the
cry and slogan: “United to Bring Down
the War Government.”
Sharkey’s “policy-speech” was an echo
of Dr. Evatt’s. He dwelt on the “serious
economic position facing Australia.” Dr.
Evatt dwelt on the need to reduce the
defence vote, trust Moscow, to curb
monopolies and give the worker “econo-
mic justice.”
Comrade Sharkey, the recipient of the
$25,000 from the Soviet Union and who
had his fares paid by the same Govern-
ment while on a visit to Moscow a couple
of years ago, appears in the campaign
merely as a Little Brother of Dr. Evatt.
He declared that Menzies’s programme
of armaments and war was out of step
with world developments, “creating new
inflation at home and swelling monopoly
profits while the people’s living standards
at home suffered.” He, like Dr. Evatt,
demands “unfreezing and raising of
wages and substantial increases in pen-
sions, restoration of relations with the
U.S.S.R. and to admit Red China to
U.N.O. and into a collective-security
pact.”
The Wharfies’ Union, whose general
secretary, Healy, is a Communist candi-
date for the Senate, announced last week
that its Sydney branch had “booked off
two A.L.P. members and one Commun-
ist to organise wharfies’ activity” in the
joint campaign. The Seamen’s Union
published Dr. Evatt’s policy-speech in
full in its official organ, the “Maritime
Worker,” and:
The Seamen’s “out-Menzies” committees
on ships are already full-steam ahead in •
the campaign. Their leaflets are being
distributed at ports all round the coast
and to every other area seamen can reach.
Generally speaking, it is conceded in
the party’s official organ that Dr. Evatt’s
policy provides a base for the widest
unity, starting from the jobs. Com-
munists have a crucial responsibility for
building such unity by a positive non-
sectarian approach. Such unity will be
decisive f0r....a victory on December 10
of the greatest moment to our country
and the cause of world peace.
It is not stated which country is “our
country”—Australia or the U.S.S.R. —
but it is no wonder that a number of
“Labor” candidates have deserted their
leader and are campaigning in Victoria as
“Cain” Laborites.
The Red Line
“G.P.”: Talk of pound-notes, politicians
or beer and every listener knows what is
meant. But talk of finance, statesmen or
beverages and no two listeners will imbue
all three words with meanings which are
precisely alike. Why not? Because the
first set of words have meanings which
are clear and tangible. The second set
are abstract: their meanings are variable,
clouded with semantic vapors.
To its devotees, Communism is, in any
language, the word with the most fluid
meaning. What Karl Marx meant by
the word has precious little to do with
what Russia’s warlike bureaucracy
means by it. And what the Commo boss
of an Australian trade-union means is
something else again.
To the union boss, Red revolution
means turning Australia into one vast
unhappy trade-union. In this union he
himself will, of course, continue to hold
a key-position. But as he’ll then be able
to kick the whole population around,
instead of only part of it, his power and
importance will be so much enhanced.
What Communism connotes to a Red-
inclined wharfie is a secret between him-
self and the ghost of Stalin. Perhaps he
imagines a regime in which he never
does any work at all: but this would
surely be too imperceptible a change to
be worth all the effort of a revolution!
More serious are the curious notions
of Communism which these days drift
about in our schools and universities.
Powwows on education should get busy
on teenage Pinks and Reds. When ques-
tioned, three schoolteachers and one
inspector all agreed that some power is
at work pumping Communism into any
kid who will listen.
Most kids outgrow it, of course; but
some don’t.
Here are some of the curious notions
found among a group of students from
a N.S.W. Teachers’ College:
One younger student solemnly believed
that if you cut up the capitalist goose
there’d be golden eggs enough to keep
everybody in easeful comfort. Another
—by some unclear logical process—
believed that only under Communism
could he turn himself into a concert-
pianist.
Several others believed Communism
would remove such bothersome handi-
caps as marriage. Some dispenser of the
party-line is evidently plugging a varia-
tion of the old Nazi “Strength through
joy” slogan: Joy through politics!
Even more than individuals do Red
Governments vary in their notions of
how Marx intended a country to be run.
Tito’s new-look Communism hugely
differs from the Russian brand. Only
one of these differences really irks the
Soviet: that Yugoslavia has now defected
from its place among the satellites and
firmly swung off into a private orbit.
For Russia cares little whether its
neighbors bow the knee to Marx; but
it cares a great deal whether they bow
the knee to Moscow.
Australian Communists, indeed, are
quite touching in their belief that if given
the chance Russia would behave towards
Australia as a sort of scarlet fairy-
godmother. That our wool and wheat
would inevitably meet the same fate as
the European satellites’ coal and steel
seems never to enter their noodles. So
long as it is useful, their idealism is no
doubt preserved by handouts Of cash
from the Kremlin.
Bert's Promises
Federal election-campaigning has gone
awfully dead. It is necessary to go back
to policy-speeches to recall what it is
all about.
Before getting down to, promises, Dr.
Evatt began his policy-speech with a
threat: Unless he took charge there’d be
mass-unemployment. The Menzies Gov-
ernment, he explained, wants early
re-election for the express purpose of
throwing people out of work; but for
this curious notion he offered no clear
reason.
Next, feeling perhaps that his own
name is currently in need of bolstering
with another, he leant heavily on Mr.
Chifley’s. Mr. Chifley built up overseas
balances. How does Dr. Evatt propose
to restore our overseas balances? “We
would set-up a Ministry for Exports,
both for primary and secondary pro-
ducts.” It defies belief that even he can
suggest this futile cure-all of Socialist
medicines. We have already priced our-
selves out of world-markets. Yet to our
national overhead he wants to add
another gaggle of civil servants, complete
with red-tape, a deficit, teapots and jobs
for the boys.
As a further remedy, he is anxious
that we should pursue Russian markets.
This suggestion, it will be remembered,
brought forth the loudest and most
enthusiastic applause of the evening.
There followed an attack on big busi-
ness as the real source of the voters’
(undefined) woes. A “big business,” it
seems, is one that chances to make more
than £25,000 in one year. This arbitrary
figure remains unaffected by such trivia
as capital to be fed, depreciation and
like considerations. A policy hot from
Sherwood Forest would be used to slug
“the rich” and lavish Tree this and that
on everyone else. Thus, another incen-
tive towards efficiency would be removed
from new industries, further incentives
to work would be taken from workers.
Having attacked big business, he next
came out in favor of what is, after all,
very big business indeed —the overgrowth
of hire-purchase. This, however, is a
big business he considers dear to the
voters’ hearts. Let us choke the roads
with yet more unpaid-for cars. As he
(i Continued on next page)


For any electoral comment in this issue
requiring signature, David Adams, of 252
George-street, Sydney, is responsible.
later bewailed the decline in consump-
tion of basic foods, he might have done
well to wonder whether some of the
household money were not being diverted
to cars and their upkeep.
His opening promise was a sober one
of full employment for all. With city
papers deluged with more job-advertise-
ments than any others in the world, this
promise, at least, should not be beyond
fulfilment.
He went on, however, to promises
more in line with the type he has made
familiar. It was unfair that margins for
skill should be given only to the skilled.
Margins for skill should also be granted
to the unskilled.
Yet, in the next breath, he said condi-
tions must be made easier for apprentices
if they are to be induced to undertake
years of training to become skilled. He
seemed unaware that he’d just advocated
that they, be deprived—along with all
other skilled workers—of any long-range
benefits. Today’s youngsters already have
too much money. Is he, perhaps, con-
sidering the future possibility of a teen-
age vote?
He wants to abolish all charges in
the public wards of hospitals. Hospitals
are already unable to make ends meet,
are closing wards and have no beds to
offer.
He promises to advance all States as
much money as they want for housing.
And, in case this doesn’t induce sufficient
shortage of labor and materials, he wants
to embark on a building- and develop-
ment-programme in the Northern Terri-
tory.
He is anxious that the coal-industry
should be developed. He has overlooked
—or, perhaps, hasn’t overlooked—the
fact that this industry is at the moment
suffering from overproduction and high
wage-costs which have killed the export
markets.
With an eye to the future, he also
deplores that TV-stations will be run by
big-businessmen. Does he really imagine
that a small businessman could run one?
His timing in suggesting a cut in the
defence-vote was also unlucky. Only
that day did Mr. Molotov emerge from
behind the champagne-bottles as his old
militant self to block German reunifica-
tion. And shortly afterwards the Krem-
lin was patting itself on the back for
having just exploded the biggest H-bomb
aspidistra in the world.
POLITICAL POINTS
Main difference between the approach
of the Prime Minister and the would-be
Prime Minister to the subject of who
should be Prime Minister is that Menzies
says “Choose between Dr. Evatt and
me” and the Doc. says “Choose me.”
• •
Seems that some people in Macquarie-
street know which side their bread’s
margarined.
• •
So Britain, France and America
started the Second World War and “sent
the troops of Hitlerite Germany” against
Russia? It must be true ; Molotov says
so. Well, not exactly Molotov but his
colleague Khrushchev, and his word
ought to be good enough for some
eminent Australians.
• •
What made Evatt change his plans and
go to Ballarat last week instead of next
week as arranged in his original pro-
gramme? Most likely explanation is
that the intrusion of the Anti-Communist
“Labor” party into South Australia and
Westralia decided him to make a bid for
exchange of preferences, and to make
the offer in Joshua’s own electorate. He
made the offer all right and invited
reciprocity. Next day the Joshuaites
announced that their second prefs. were
going to the Government.
Evatt, Calwell and others claim that
this shows that the Joshua-Keon group
were under-cover Libs, all the time, but
Keon’s explanation is that the “Labor”
party can never attain office while Evatt
is leader and the first task is to put him
out.
* «
When Vic. Premier Bolte moved for an
extension of petrol-selling hours the pre-
sident of the Victorian Automobile
Chamber of Commerce howled that this
would mean another Is. on the price of
petrol. It hasn’t meant it in New South
Wales.
• •
Cahill, reversing the policy on which
he won his last election, now claims that
State and Federal politics should be kept
separate. Some Federal “Labor” candi-
dates in Victoria don’t agree with him.
They’re proclaiming themselves “Cain
Labor” candidates.
• •
The N. S. Wales Parliament slid pru-
dently into recess in the early hours of
Friday morning. It will meet again on
February 14, the third anniversary of its
St. Valentine’s Day victory. The State
election is tipped for April 21, which is
about as late as Cahill can hold it.
By N. S. Wales law writs for an elec-
tion must be issued within four days of
the proclamation dissolving Parliament
or of the expiry of the Assembly through
effluxion of time; writs must be returned
within 60 days of issue. Unless dissolved
earlier the present Assembly will expire
on March 13, which would place the latest
day for return of writs at May 16.
There’s usually about a month allowed
between polling-day and return of writs.
This would place election-day (to the
nearest Saturday) on April 14 or 21. The
earlier date would mean that Easter
would come plumb in the middle of the
election-campaign. Which, say the
crystal-ball experts, makes April 21 the
obvious date.
• •
Three other States will also be having
elections early in 1956. In Westralia,
with Government and Opposition evenly
balanced in the Assembly since “Labor’s”
loss of the Bunbury seat, Premier Hawke
has successfully dodged the challenge of
an election before Christmas and seems
unlikely to agree to the Opposition’s sug-
gestion of January 14 as polling-day.
The suggestion was most unpractical,
anyway; a February poll is more likely.
Dates of polling-days in South Australia
and Queensland also remain shrouded in
mystery.
V
• •
Keon the Joshuaite had some stormy
meetings in Adelaide, but he got in a few
home-truths. He said that many of the
men who stood behind Evatt hoped in
their hearts that the electors of Barton
would do the job they lacked the courage
to do themselves. Further, “if his own
followers did not trust Evatt, what fools
the Australian people would be to do so.”
• •
A Sydneyite who caught a bus in Mac-
quarie-street at 4.55 p.m. one day last
week suggests a simple way of ensuring
that all suburbs get an equal share of
available buses during times of transport-
crisis. His idea is to increase the staff
of the Transport Department and make
sure that all suburbs are well represented
among them. On his observation more
than half the passengers on his bus were
departmental dead-heads.
• •
Tripovich, secretary of the A.L.P. in
Victoria, says the Joshuaites are an off-
shoot of the Liberal party. Must be
something wrong there. Wasn’t it Tripo’s
party they shot off, or out of?
• •
Menzies on “Labor” unity: “The
Labor party is so united that the people
who are ‘ouf in Victoria are the people
who are ‘in’ in N. S. Wales.
The P.M. was not quite right. As far
as the Cahills are concerned it would take
a Delphic oracle to say whether they’re
in or out —or whose side they’re on.
• •
Hire-purchase debts rose by 8 per cent,
in the September quarter to reach £194.7
ONE-MAN BUS
million, an increase of £5O million in 12
months. Motor-cars accounted for 80
per cent, of the quarter’s new business.
• •
Latest move in the Cahill Govern-
ment’s campaign to delocalise local gov-
ernment is a proposal to take away from
municipal councils the power to authorise
“major development” and to vest it in the
Cumberland County Council. The term
includes authority over the construction
of hotels, factories, shopping-areas, drive-
in theatres, oil-terminals, airports and
similar large undertakings. The move
has all the earmarks of the policy which
Cahill, first as Minister for Local Gov-
ernment and then as Premier, has spon-
sored. It follows his ruthless annihila-
tion of many long-established municipali-
ties, the introduction of party-politics into
local-government and the whittling-down
of municipal authority by the establish-
ment of boards and commissions directly
responsible to the State Government.
The change was not sought by the
Cumberland County Council, and neither
it nor the councils were consulted before
Local Government Minister Renshaw
made his announcement. They are en-
titled to protest, but past protests have
not stopped the onward march of the
Cahill plan for centralisation.
Opposition-leader Morton has pro-
tested against the move. He should make
it clear that an incoming Liberal Govern-
ment would do its best to put the “local”
back in local government.
• •
A syndicate in New York is selling land
on the moon at 10s. an acre. What a
pity the Doc. didn’t hear of this before
he delivered his policy-speech! Instead
of merely offering the moon in a general
way, he could have promised free title-
deeds to selected sites.
• *
There’s a touch of the unusual about
a Canadian contribution to Ceylon under
the Colombo Plan. The Canadians are
to spend half-a-million dollars on a photo-
graphic survey of the island. The work
will be done by a Toronto corporation.
• •
Newspaper headline: “Evatt attacks
two bishops.” The game is developing;
in the opening gambit the Doc. was con-
tent to attack the bishops’ alleged pawns.
• •
Six groups and an Independent will
contest the Senate election in Westralia.,
Parties, in the order they will appear on
the ballot-paper, are Communist, Liberal,
Country, Progressive, Anti-Communist
“Labor” and Evatt “Labor.” The sole
Independent is Carlyle Ferguson.
• •
Doleful prophecies made by “Labor”
speakers that the employment position
will deteriorate if the Menzies Govern-
ment remains in power have at least this
to support them —any change at all must
be for the worse as there is virtually no
unemployment today. At the end of
October there were only 1727 people in
receipt of unemployment-benefit—out
of a work-force of about 2,800,000.
• •
“Melbn”: A. M. Storey, secretary of
the Victorian Shop Assistants’ Union,
has just returned from Europe to find
that the State Government proposes to
extend trading hours for shops and
garages, and he fears that if this goes on
we will have all the horrors of the Con-
tinental Sunday. Anybody who has
lived in Paris knows what they are. You
see the little grisettes, with lunch-baskets
on their arm, making for the gare to
spend the day at Fontainebleau or Ver-
sailles. On the way they pop into a
church and do a genuflection, then off
they go to catch a ferryboat or a train,
and end-up the day sipping wine in a
cafe or something—you know what the
French are, very naughty people. Mr.
Storey apparently fears that if the
Government has its way Melburnians
will be getting that naughty feeling out
of buying a gallon of petrol or a pound
of sugar on a Sunday.
• •
Calwell, stating “Labor’s” case in the
Melbourne “Herald,” says, “Labor’s
policy.... .appeals to all except the
greedy few who are quite happy because
they are doing so well today.” What
odds the greedy few don’t turn out to be
more than 50 per cent, of the voters on
December 10?
• •
As a sequel to legislation passed earlier
this year by the United Kingdom and
Federal Parliaments sovereignty over the
Cocos Islands passed to Australia last
Wednesday. Earlier the islands were ad-
ministered from Singapore.
• •
Import-cuts made last April are now
showing up in overseas-trade figures.
Imports for October were £68.5 million
compared with £75.3 million in Septem-
ber. At the same time exports rose from
£54.1 million to £68.2 million, so that
the deficit for the month was only
£300,000 compared with £21.3 million in
September. For the period July-October
the adverse trade-balance was £39.7 mil-
lion ; for the corresponding four months
of 1954 the figure was £46.1 million. It
will be some time before the additional
cuts made on October 1 begin to show
their effect.
r •
“O. and M.”: Everyone sees the need
to improve efficiency in the public ser-
vice. But “T. and C.” is only fiddling
with the problem when he suggests (B.
26/10/’55) that the Public Service Board
employ snoopers to look for radios under
Canberra officials’ desks. The real pro-
blem in the public service is that keen
and ambitious officers can’t get pro-
motion by displaying efficiency and
economy; they can only get ahead by
increasing the size of their staffs. If “T.
and C.” can get a change of outlook
by the Public Service Board on this ques-
tion the results will be more impressive
than raids on staffs for alleged inattention
to work. Most Canberra public servants
are pretty .steady workers.
• •
According to the Commonwealth
Statistician’s figures, the number of
houses and fiats in Australia increased
by 24.8 per cent, in the intercensal period
1947-54. In the same period the popu-
lation rose by 18.57 per cent. So, despite
(or perhaps because of) a high immigra-
tion-rate, the housing lag has been
substantially reduced.
• •
“Stromlo”: Wines, “shock-cooled” in
preparation for their trip to the Antarctic,
are being loaded for transport to Maw-
son. Scientists have been interested in
the technique of cooling, to prevent
crystals and cloudiness, but few of the
expedition-members have been worrying
about it. Their view is expressed by the
director of the Antarctic Division, Phil
Law, who says the main value of the
wines is as a morale-builder when mem-
bers are getting tired of intense cold and
severe conditions and when birthdays and
holidays are being celebrated.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
pONVERSATION on a Katoomba
(N.S.W.) train: “No, we didn’t like
Canberra very much; all the streets
seemed to run in circles and we kept
coming back to where we started.” “Oh?
We didn’t have that trouble at all.” “Well,
of course, we were there some years ago
—they may have straightened the place
out since then.”—“Oliver Filter.”
❖
“Allan B.”: If Melbourne “Herald”
is right in referring to “the personal
bodyguard of St. Winston Churchill,” it
would seem that the knighthood was
merely a stepping-stone to higher honors.
❖ ❖ *t+
“H.A.L.”: Ruby M. Ayres, dead in
London at 72, was candid about her
books. She wrote what she knew would
sell, and left anything in the way of
serious novels to others. This, however,
didn’t stop her from making caustic re-
marks about critics. At a cocktail-party,
a young book-reviewer said to her: “I
hope you won’t mind me saying this, but
I just can’t read your stuff!” The old
girl turned a cold eye on him and retorted,
in tones audible all over the room: “No?
And I bet you couldn’t bloody well write
it, either!”
*> ++♦
“Baggyduds”: “T 755” (B. 16/11/’55)
would not find Machines, bread, cutting,
handwhirling, on parade in any Army
kitchen at the moment. Present job is
electric, with a quickly-set slice-gauge,
effective for all ranges, wafer to Dag-
wood. The loose wooden guard is now
a stainless-steel handle which deletes all
reference to the finger-count after use.
Even Sydney bread is sliced-up with com-
parative ease. But would it as a weapon,
using Sydney dodger and, say, a few rail-
way-scones chucked in for ammo, get
past the Geneva Convention?
“Uramao”: A queer assortment, as
the Devil said of the Ten Command-
ments, presented themselves to Sir
Edmund Hillary for inclusion in the party
to go down to the thrilling regions of
thick-ribbed ice. Four-hundred single
and 124 married men applied. There were
eight journalists, no doubt inspired by
stories of explorers eating huskies —for
when a man bites a dog, it’s news. One
aspirant’s qualification was that he came
from the Snowy River; another, besides
being expert with dogs, was a master at
spinning and knitting; another relied on
his proficiency on the mouth-organ and
with the double-bass ; and one hoped to
qualify because of astrology and psychi-
cal research. What a film it would make
if they all went!
❖ ,/ ❖ ❖
“Viper”: Overshadowed by Sydney’s
impending tram- and bus-strike was a
more novel obstacle to citizens’ progress:
A koala seated—in that vague way koalas
have —fair in ‘the middle of a highway.
Stopped 30 cars. Strike-victims, tired of
being the bunny, might crib from the
koala.
❖ *> ❖
“Maitri”: As Sydney’s North Shore
train rounded a bend, passengers, with
exclamations of delight, flung up the
grimy windows the better to gaze at the
gleaming gold of the calliopsis. When I
started to manipulate my window the
cove beside me stayed my hand. “Don’t
open it, mate,” he implored agitato.
“Those darned things always give me
hay-fever! ”
❖ ❖ . ♦♦♦
“Blinkey Bill”: I can confirm post-
office use of guard-words (B. 9/11 /’55)
in the phoning of messages. Half a cen-
tury ago I was phoning a message to a
suburban postmistress. I was not getting
through too well, partly because the p.-m.
was hard of hearing. The wire contained
the word Fiat, a brand of motor-car new
those days: I shouted the appropriate
guard-words—“F for Freddie,” “I for
Isaac,” “A for Abel,” and “T for Tom.”
The p.-m. couldn’t or wouldn’t compre.
“No —I can’t get it,” she croaked. “You
wouldn’t,” I muttered; “you deaf old
b .” I didn’t have to use the guard-
words for this —she heard. I was stopped
2s. 6d. out of my next pay for insub-
ordination.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Emjai”: Enjoying some delightful
sausages at the home of an old butcher-
turned-farmer, I correctly assumed that
they were home-made, and remarked that
we found it impossible to get even moder-
“Number two! You just missed first prize, dear!”
ately respectable snags from our town
butcher. “Well, I’ll give you a tip,” our
host replied. “Try another butcher. Find
out whether he makes his own sausages.
If he does, then find out whether he
makes brawn. If he makes brawn, then
buy his sausages; the rubbish would go
into the brawn.”
♦♦♦ ❖
“Youanmi”: I don’t know the system
for distributing the new telephone-books,
but in our rather scattered suburb it
seems, roughly, that phoneless house-
holds have been left books as some kind
of compensation, while those with phones
“I wish you'd come out of your shell, Lancelot."
have been left bookless. It’s a situation
full of possibilities—l can imagine the
General’s face should I drop into his place
on the corner and ask can I use his
phone if I bring my own book. I don’t
know who handled the distribution,
though he could have been related to the
local sanitary-carter, who, every few
months, heaves-off a few shining new
pans along the roadside —“There’s a few
people live down the back of the scrub
have to look after themselves,” he ex-
plained. The receptacles always dis-
appear mysteriously at night.
“Avabash”: “Mink is too hot,” says
Lady Docker, the Daimler dame. Cham-
pagne, no doubt, is too gassy, caviare
too indigestible. Money gets around
with the wrong people.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Sister Ellell”: There’s no saying what
chance-phrase will start a woman off on
a buying-spree. The other day my chief
said, “Now, you’re a sensible woman, tell
me what you think of this problem?”
Later, with no intention of buying a
hat, I caught myself thinking that it
would be cheaper and more sensible to
wait until later ip the season . . . For
a perfectly plain, but enchanting, big hat,
I thereupon paid six of the best ... I
hope I have a tenner in my purse if he
calls me “a sensible woman with both
feet on the ground,” and if he ever gets
around to a “worthy woman” —I won’t
answer for the consequences!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Deejaitch”: Riding home with a
newspaper-deliverer after he’d finished the
round that takes him over sandhills and
in and out of narrow lanes for three hours
each morning, most of the time in dark-
ness, I noticed that the mat under his
feet was worn completely through in one
spot and asked why. “My heel,” he said,
with a grin. “When I’m rolling the papers
and steering with my knees, I’ve got to
dig my heel in there or I can’t make it go
where I want it to.” He’s been doing
it for six years now, 50 miles a day, with-
out an accident.
* * ❖
“Cliaman”: At a boxing-exhibition I
witnessed at a school-fete the first effort
consisted of two blows and a broken
nose. I have overheard a troubled father
of two lads telling their schoolmaster
that the boxing-lessons must stop. “Either
that,” he went on ruefully, “or we’ll have
to move to the bush or a desert island
or somewhere!” He’d sent his boys for
a haircut on a Saturday morning: on
the way they’d wiped-up six or seven
of the local lads. Angry parents had
called by telephone and otherwise; two
had offered to take him on! Coaching a
16-year-old, I noticed he had a bad slash
over one eye and his left ear showed
signs of caulifloriculture. He’d been
attacked by a big bodgie a couple of
nights before. I wondered what the
vanquished must have looked like —my
bloke insisted he was the victor —and
remembered that my pupil had no busi-
ness being off school-premises. My prob-
ings revealed that some of the lads broke
bounds regularly to try out their boxing
prowess on the manpower of the district.
I had the uncomfortable feeling that I
was expected to approve ; then the still
more uncomfortable one that, despite a
lifetime’s teaching of the highest ethics, I
did!
*> ❖ ❖
“C.A.L.”: English migrants landing at
Fremantle are hustled from the ship to
a waiting train which takes them direct
to Northam holding-centre, so that their
first impression of Australian manners
and fashions is governed by the photo-
graphs in the railway-coaches, all taken
about the turn of the century: women
in ankle-length dresses and men in flannel
shirts and bowyangs tied below the knee.
Let Australians consider what it would
feel like to be trapped in The Fortunes
of Richard Mahony and feel that one
could never get out.
♦♦♦ ♦> ♦>
“P.O.M.C.”: We have a park in our
Sydney suburb the name of which no-
body seemed to know. Recently a fine
bowling-green was constructed on it, and
now a neat signboard proclaims it:.
Greenless Park.
❖ ❖ ❖
A SMALL triangular park where three
roads met began as an oasis in a
broad expanse of macadam, where cart-
horses were watered in a trough cool in
the shade of camphor-laurels.
Macadam became bitumen, and trees
and shrubs were cut down at the park-
corners to ensure a clear view for car-
drivers. A picture-theatre went up near
by; the roads were widened to make
parking-space, and the base, height and
hypotenuse of the triangle were shortened.
As traffic grew faster the triangle was
made into a circle; cars used it as a
circus, and for still better visibility
trees were progressively cut down, and
only a few flat flower-beds remained.
These were gradually filched away by
the expanding asphalt, till a small central
island stuck with an ornamental lamp-
post stood where the three roads con-
verged.
Several cars wrapped themselves
around the pole; it was deemed a men-
ace to traffic; this morning on my way
to work I saw council workmen removing
the light-pole; and tonight what I once
knew as a small wooded park is an un-
broken stretch of oily road.
C. A. L.
PREVIEW
“Television-radios are being sold in Sydney
for forward-delivery at around £3OO, and shop-
demonstrations, televising members of the
public on a stage, are drawing crowds.”
Now you can have your sweetie televised,
if you can bear to leave her;
She goes up on the platform while you
stay down by the receiver;
She smiles self-consciously; she is plain
to see, and, of course, all grey —
It can hardly be said that she looks better
that way,
Unless you are unused to seeing her all
sort of quivery—
Maybe that, in your case, like television,
is a matter of forward-delivery.
And that’s about all you can say, except
that the receiver looks nice,
And that the only thrill you can get out
of it at the moment is the price,
And that if you are tired of buying
' washing-machines and refrigerators
You are obviously someone for whom
television caters »
Besides the proprietors of old films as far
back as two-reelers,
Hire-purchase operators, radio-manufac-
turers and dealers:
Let us be thankful on their behalf, as
Christmas comes round again—
/ suppose they just qualify under the
specification of “Goodwill to all
men.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


'"THE wordy dilemmas that plagued
readers of Sydney’s two morning
newspapers are at last over, and I am
relieved. They were costing me far too
much in both time and money. I must
say that the “S.M.H.’s” final folly gave
me a laugh. Fellow-addicts will recall
the clue: “In a contest each man is out
“It’s been lovely knowing you , Claude—you must bring your wife
here next holidays."
to his opponent.” The choice for the
missing word lay between “best” and
“beat” and the answer “best” was justi-
fied on the grounds that “the kind of
contest was not specified. In a boxing
bout a man might want to beat his
opponent, but best is a more suitable
word to apply to most other contests.”
“Granny” apparently prefers two-bob
each way. The heading at the top of
the page of explanations read: “How
Winner Beat Rivals in Contest.” Best
that!—“Wallboard.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“L.J.”: A friend of mine just back
from a tour of the United States says the
present, the senior among us got up and
let them have it straight from the
shoulder. Oddly enough, he received the
biggest hand of the night, the guests
being so far under the weather that they
neither knew nor cared whether he was
praising or cursing them.
❖ ♦♦♦ *
“Doynest”: A minor accident in the
office brought to light our infringement
of the Commercial Clerks’ Wages Board
Determination, the Labor and Industry
Act, and possibly the Health Regulations,
by not having a first-aid kit. The junior
typist was dispatched at once to the
nearest chemist and came back with an
use of “bloody” in Australia intrigues
the Yanks. One Yank to whom he was
introduced immediately remarked, “Oh,
so youYe one of those bloody Austra-
lians.” The “bloody English,” on the
other hand, has an entirely different signi-
ficance for an American like Ezra Pound,
describing a section of the English of
which he was not fond.
♦j-
“Mugga Way”: In Canberra represen-
tatives of the patent-offices of the Com-
monwealth countries have been trying,
not too successfully, to agree on some
method of classifying and recording.
The Australian chief, H. R. Wilmot (a
brother of “Furnley Maurice”), told the
conference about a patent-attorney who,
asked by a would-be patentee to make a
search for a device, looked under “foun-
dation garments” and found nothing
resembling the proposed invention. He
thereupon lodged a claim for recognition
of the patent. An astute examiner in the
patent-office also looked under “founda-
tion garments,” but then turned to “sur-
gical supports,” where he found that an
identical design had been lodged some
time The point is: How does
one classify fc.n idea?
❖ <B*
“Eureka”: Doctors, lawyers, clerks
and men in many other walks of life
have represented Australia or the various
States at cricket, but-I can’t recall a
single politician playing .representative
cricket. Does this 1 mean that cricket
isn’t politics, or that politics isn’t cricket?
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Emjai”: Melbourne railway travel-
lers get some odd backyard glimpses. In
a fashionable suburb where a one-sided
street fronts the track, one edifice stands
out. It is very small, and the dimensions
and gabled roof seem to mark its obvious
purpose. No one would be in any doubt
but for the contradiction painted on the
wall in foot-high letters: “It isn’t!”
♦> * *
“N.L.”: As to meaningless farewells
(B. 16/11/’55): At one stage I used the
off-hand “Be good,” but gave it up when
I realised I’d said it to 9. minister of
religion leaving the office.
* ❖ ❖
“Dix”: It may well be, as “Kune” (B.
16/11/’55) says, that the toast of the
press is always last on the list at public
functions because that way the reporter
is kept on the job. But there could be
another reason: at the end of the average
country-spread the reporter is often the
only person sober enough to make an
intelligible speech. I’ve seen that happen,
a number of times; and once, after the
proposer had mumbled a number of
complimentary things about the reporters
“Swat it, John — it's a blowie!”
outfit costing nearly a quid and contain-
ing a couple of bandages, splinter-
tweezers, half-a-dozen safety-pins and a
bottle of smelling-salts. Smelling-salts,
I always thought, went out with hansom-
cabs and hobble-skirts; I don’t recollect
ever seeing a woman using them, and
the females in modern offices are less
prone to fainting than guardsmen on
parade. Perhaps the salts are intended
for use on the office boss —I’d need some-
thing pretty powerful to bring me round
if an applicant for a typing job offered
to work at award rates.
♦> ❖ *>
“Bo”: Nature can be delinquent of
her duty to Man. In the case of the
prawn I hoist my lid to her careful plan-
ning. To save her favorite harassment,
she arranged that the boiled crustacean
would be different in color from the raw
one. But she played a dirty trick with
the egg. I am moved to this remark by
the mortifying sight of a friend mopping
up a googly mess from his office-table —
his missus had put in his salad-lunch
what she thought was the egg she’d hard-
boiled that morning.
❖ ❖ *l*
“Pat”: Ahead of me in the city-bound
bus, two gabbling mothers and one silent
daughter. “Yes,” rattled on one Mama,
“she would have got full marks, full
marks, my dear, but, of course, she has
to spoil it all by talking in the middle
of the exam, and gets five marks deducted.
For talking! Can you beat it, five marks
off for talking! I was so sickened . .
She got out a few stops further on; and
the daughter of the remaining mother
broke the refreshing silence with this
virtuous remark: “Anyway, Mum, I
never get marks off for talking, do I? I
only get them off for what I don’t know.”
❖ *l* *t*
“Nordbo”: In Cairns, my own true
love among cities, city of pleasant people
and beautiful beaches, the walls of public
and public-house conveniences are
covered with Australian obscenities. In
thriving and bustling Ingham, about 200
miles from Cairns, the inscriptions on
corresponding walls are all in Italian. A
good half of Ingham is Italian, but why
does the Australian-half fail to assert
itself? Are we losing the language-war
in the North?
&
“P.0.M.C.”: From his additional list
of obsolete games (B. 9/11 /’55)
“Moorapi” omitted tip-cat. A short,
round stick, sharpened at both ends, was
tapped on one of the points with, say,
the copper-stick, making it spin into the
air. It was then struck as far away as
possible from a circular base. Striker’s
opponent had to estimate the number of
standing-leaps required to reach the tip-
cat. If he erred, that number was added
to the striker’s score; if right, he added
it to his own. Game was usually 100-
up and the strike taken alternately.
♦+♦ +!♦ ♦>
“Lorna Doone”: At dinner Pop
announced, “An awkward thing hap-
pened today. As I was coming down in
the elevator I sneezed and blew my con-
founded store-teeth clean through the
wires.” Restraining a smile, my sister
said, “Whatever did you do?” “Oh,”
replied he, “when we fetched up at the
ground-floor I said to the doorman, ‘See
if you can find me teeth for me, will
you?’ So they dragged the lift-well.” I
ventured into the conversation: “What
are you wearing now?” “Same ones, of
course; whatever else could I wear?”
was the scornful reply. Further to the
puzzled silence he added, “The well was
half-full of water, so they dragged them
up unbroken; I just sluiced them under
the tap and put ’em back . . . confounded
nuisance.” I thought that was the end
of the episode, but next time I was in
the building the doorman whispered,
“Your father will have to be more care-
ful of his teeth in future. The well’s
gone dry.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“H.E.R.”: Chap in our suburb is the
best boarder I know. He pays five-guineas
a week. Each morning he gets his own
breakfast. He pays for his lunch at work.
He does his own washing and ironing,
chops the wood, cleans the fowlhouse,
mows the lawn and grows as much vege-
tables as the backyard will carry, buying
his own seed. He often carts the children
of the house to the pictures. When the
family goes to the flicks he stays back
and washes the dishes. Saturday after-
noon he ducks backwards and forwards
to the s.p.-shop putting on bets for the
missus. But he never touches the front-
garden. The missus loves to potter with
the flowers.
■£♦ ♦♦♦
“Wusslean”: The use of French for
house-names has always seemed to me
affectation. No Frenchman, I’m sure,
would descend to the vulgarity of calling
his home Mon Repos or Le Nid, and
nothing is gained culturally by using a
foreign language. A name affixed to a
home in a Melbourne suburb struck me
as being an exception: it was, in large
italics: N’Oubliez (i.e., Do Not Forget).
N’Oublions (Let Us Not Forget) would
have been more understandable, as a
reminder to the owners of their past
happiness, their marriage-vows and so
on; but “Do Not Forget” could be
addressed only to outsiders —to knock
before entering? Wipe their boots?
Or is it a survival from the bygone days
when tradesmen, other than milkmen and
breadcarters, were only too happy to
take orders and deliver the goods?
❖ *1* ❖
HAVE YOU A MALE RELATIVE—
with a sense of humor, a keen interest in
public affairs, and a taste for good read-
ing? Sounds like a pretty good descrip-
tion of all the menfolk in your family,
doesn’t it? Particularly the potential
Bulletin reader. This year give him a
one-year subscription to The Bulletin
for Christmas. Take you five-minutes;
just fill in the subscription-form in this
issue and post it. No need to pay now.
Towards Christmas he will receive a card
announcing your gift. An account for <
36s. will be sent to you in the New Year.
Be really big—give one to all your male
relatives!
THE UPWARD SCALE
“An expedition headed by Professor L. R.
Richardson, chief of the Zoology Department
of Wellington (N.Z.) Victoria University
College, wfll leave next month to search for a
living specimen of the multi-million-year-old
coelacanth, ‘the fish with arms,’ which scientists
claim could be the missing link between man
and his sea-ancestor.”
When his theory Darwin nailed to the
mast
The Adam-and-Eve stuff took a knock;
Our origin seemed determined at last,
Despite some voices inclined to mock.
The blue-bloods, of course, were deeply
pained
At the thought that they sprang from
the self-same race
As unbeautiful simians, not overbrained,
Who wore formal tails, yet dignity
strained
By fleaing themselves in a public place.
It was later claimed (and feasibly, too)
That, going back much further in time,
The first ancestor of me and of you
Crawled blindly around in Devonian
slime.
The sort of creature perhaps you'd see
Exposed on moving a small flat stone;
Invertebrate, cursed with a deep ennui
{As Homo sapiens often can be)
Yet destined to reach Life's master-
throne.
You’d expect that Man might be tickled
pink
To know he’d improved since he first
began ;
But the plain fact is, that he likes to think
He came down (or up) from a super-
man.
Such a thought {as often a thought can
be)
Is simply the offspring of a wish.
So it rocks him right to his bones, you
see,
To find that the root of his family-tree
Could possibly be a blasted fish!
The human has many a fishy way —
Witness the local disciples of Marx.
“Give us your fin !” you will hear men
say.
Doesn’t Pitt-street swarm with voraci-
ous sharks ?
Yes, this theory of origin could, indeed,
Be right. So when next you’re fishing,
and give
A drummer some cunningly-baited weed,
Or mullet-gut to a flathead — heed:
You mightn’t be hauling in just a feed
But a rather distant relative!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


7%&ru
3828
... the aristocrat of Australian skies
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in ail States or any authorised Travel Agent.
NPV23#
PERSONAL ITEMS
Frank Chester, whom Bradman once
called “the finest umpire cricket has
known,” has called it a day. He was
first appointed a Test-umpire in 1924,
when 28, the youngest ever, and has
officiated in every Test-series in England
since then —48 Tests in all. That he’d
make a few mistakes in his 28 complete
first-class seasons, particularly perhaps in
later years, stands to reason ; and one or
two very doubtful decisions in the 1953
Tests irked the Australians. (Still, as
Ray Lindwall wrote later in Flying
Stumps, “No Australian doubted Ches-
ter’s fairness as an umpire or his know-
ledge and interpretation of the rules.”)
In War I Chester lost his right hand at
Salonika: which ended a promising
playing-career which might have led to
Test-honors. In 1913, when 17, he had
hit three centuries inside 10 days for
his county, Worcestershire, and in 1914
had knocked-up 178 not-out, highest
county score that year. Before umpiring
his first first-class match, in 1921, Chester
picked up six pebbles, which he’s used
ever since to mark-off the balls of an
over —now worn down smooth as some
250,000 overs (at a conservative estimate)
were adjudicated upon..
• •
Sir Frank Beaurepaire’s broad smile
(see under) may be accounted for by the
fact that he was being sketched by Red
Moore, ex-Kiwi-comedian. S’Frank has
had probably more to do with bringing
the Olympic Games to Melbourne than
SIR FRANK BEAU REP AIRE
any other person —fittingly enough. The
former world-champion swimmer repre-
sented Australia at the Games in 1908,
1920 and 1924, and was an official at
those of 1924, 1932 and 1948. One of the
four who took the responsibility of mak-
ing Melbourne the 1956 host, and in the
delegation to Rome to place the Yarra
city’s claim before the international
body, he was chairman of the first
organising committee which did the
spade-work. One thing he could be happy
about is that there’ll be no necessity for
anybody to sleep in the streets. Accom-
modation for V.I.P.s, including the
plethora of pressmen, has all been fixed,
and private persons have only to go to
the Town Hall to be allotted one of the
15,000 beds.. Sir Frank is founder and
chairman of the tyre company appro-
priately called Olympic, was Lud Mayor
of Melbourne from 1940 to 1942, holds
the Royal Humane Society’s gold-medal
for life-saving, and is Melbourne Univer-
sity’s biggest single benefactor.
• •
From seaward, Troughton Island is a
barren black solid among a clutch of
low but equally solid reefs: a sort of
non-conforming Warner amongst the
waiting treachery of the shoals. Now
(between Derby and Wyndham, off the
far-north Westralian coast) its warning
propensities have been amplified. W. B.
Legg, of Mt. Gambier (S.A.), and D. R
Garratt, of Adelaide, have left Perth to
settle on the island, their job, as expert
radio-mechanics, to man the marine
radio-beacon station recently erected.
Costing £173,000, the most modern of
its kind in Australia, the station has a
165 ft. steel mast, from which automatic
signals will be beamed day and night.
Passing ships’ radar-aerials will receive
the warning signals. As well, a high-
frequency radio-direction-finding appar-
atus will give frequent position-signals.
Legg practised his radar-radio in the
Royal Navy; Garratt learned his tubes,
traces, transformers at the Commonwealth
Acoustic Laboratory in Adelaide.
• •
Last year David Rowbotham, Queens-
land journalist, had a book of verse pub-
lished, Ploughman and Poet. Next year
the Commonwealth Literary Fund (with
Angus and Robertson) will put out his
book of short stories, Town and City —
Tales and Sketches. The book is a selec-
tion of work published in The Bulletin
over the past eight years. Rowbotham
recently shifted from journalising in Too-
woomba to the editorial staff of Brisbane
“Courier-Mail.”
• •
In practice for the past 26 years
(mainly common law), B. J. Dunn,
widely-known Melbourne barrister, be-
comes the newest judge of the County
Court, and chairman of General Sessions.
Six years in the Second A.1.F., ending as
colonel, he’d been senior legal-officer at
New Guinea headquarters, later with
advance h.-q. at Hollandia and Morotai.
• •
“Macnell”: Bert Edwards worked his
way into the wardroom through the tail-
shaft (or whatever entrance black-
gangers use) in the days when a com-
mission from the lowerdeck was a rarity
indeed. He had his seaborne share of
War I (the Australia) and in the War II
Mediterranean looked after destroyer
Stuart’s vitals —according to Goebbels,
“rust and wire.” Hec Waller (then com-
mander, later to go as captain of cruiser
Perth) sent for him. “Voyager’s having
trouble, Chief. Nick across and see what
you can do.” Edwards nicked across,
and kept her shafts spinning to such
splendid effect through the thousands of
killing miles that he was never allowed
to nick back again. For months (being
an old-hand engineer) he begged, bor-
rowed (probably stole) and generally
cajoled the harassed engineering-staff in
Alex, for spare-parts to keep his valiant
old craft steaming. This was the time of
Tobruk —he’d already (in Stuart) been in
Matapan, Greece and Crete. After the
war, now lieutenant-commander and
frosty-pated (little wonder), he became
Fleet-Engineer’s Assistant in Sydney,
with all the refinements of Garden Island
and the huge Captain Cook dock at his
disposal. The other day, at 60, the oldest
serving engineer in the R.A.N., he packed
his kit for shore. He leaves many a
soundly-trained man behind him.
• •
France’s new Consul in Perth, Roger
Loubere, first to be appointed on a full-
time basis, is no stranger to Australia.
In Perth 30 years ago, he went to Sydney,
intending to stay there about 10 days,
remaining instead 15 years. His book,
Australia, the Fifth Continent, published
last year, was commended by reviewers
as the work of a “clear-thinking French-
man.” Twenty years in diplomatic
service, he had lately been Consul at
Chittagong (Pakistan). Madame Loubere
is a much-travelled Scot, daughter of a
British Regular Army officer, who had
her teenage schooling in Melbourne.
A note from poet Will Ogilvie, Kirk-
lea, Selkirk, Scotland, author of Fair Girls
and Gray Horses and Hearts of Gold,
now in his 87th year:
I still get the The Bulletin and enjoy read-
ing it, and it gives me a flavor of the old bush
life which I loved so well.
If you know any old folk who remember me
in my Australian days, please convey to them
my regards and give them my blessings!
• •
New Bishop of Grafton (N.S.W.), the
Rt. Rev. Kenneth John Clements, was
born in London, came to Australia in
1922 and joined B.H.P. in Melbourne,
junior clerk. Transferred to Sydney, he
rose to an executive position in charge
of purchasing. He was Toe H Job Master
in 1926, graduated B.A. with Honors in
History in 1933, and ordained deacon by
the Bishop of Riverina that year and also
appointed Registrar of that diocese.
Followed shepherding at Narrandera,
Tumbarumba, Gunning, and, in 1945, an
assistant-mastership at Canberra Gram-
mar School. He was consecrated Assist-
ant Bishop of Canberra-Goulburn in
1949.
• •
Dr. George Hart, a dark-eyed, keen-
faced, courteous 75-year-old Professor
Emeritus of Veterinary Science from the
University of California, gave us his im-
pressions of the Australian livestock
industry in The Bulletin of November
23. He had been here for nine months,
Fulbright-lecturing to vet. students at
Sydney University and seeing as much
as he could manage of the livestock busi-
ness in Queensland, New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania.
He regrets not having seen more, but he
seems to have seen and absorbed a great
deal in the time. Writer ran into him at
the Boonoke (N.S.W.) shearing, and has
heard of him from time to time, visiting
properties, attending scientific conferences
and such in various States. A graduate
in Veterinary Medicine from the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania, he joined the U.S.
Bureau of Animal Industry at Washing-
ton ; at the bureau he was mainly con-
cerned with the control of pleuro. On
the side, he did a course in Medicine,
not with any intention of practising as a
medico for humans, but to supplement
his veterinary studies. He graduated in
Medicine (human) and then went to Cali-
fornia to direct the campaign to clean-up
the cattle-tick. This was done, the tick
being “driven right into the Gulf of New
Mexico,” on a very small appropriation,
and in the teeth of opposition by
ranchers. He thinks Australia’s tick-pro-
blem could be cleaned-up, too, if it were
tackled as an all-out campaign. Admit-
ted, he says, it would cost money, but
only a small percentage of the losses in
DR. HART
national revenue caused by the tick.
After work with the Health Department
of Los Angeles, he joined the staff of the
University of California in 1917, becom-
ing head of the Department of Animal
Husbandry and, in 1948, Dean of the
Veterinary School. Sketched shortly
before his departure for California.
Fred Pattenden (sole proprietor of the
genial phiz herewith portrayed) got his
first wages as a ship’s-boy in a North
Atlantic steamer. Now a large Adelaide
factory settles with him every week, for
the somewhat more enlarged salary of a
managing-director. Employing 4CK)-odd,
his present bread-butterers are a link
in a world-chain of 15 important
industrial plants, producing millions
of metal “bit-parts” for 14 dif-
ferent industries. Born in Sydney, Patten-
FRED PATTEN DEN
den was presently elevated from ships-
boy to deckhand, in a ship which joined
in the search for Titanic survivors. Later,
his ship allowed another vessel to berth
ahead of her in Quebec. Reason for the
preference—a Scotland Yard inspector
boarded her and arrested Mr. Crippen.
With the anchor swallowed in Sydney,
Pattenden painted girders till War I broke
out, whereupon he continued with girders
and such as a member of the Ist Field
Company Engineers. Sales-managership
of his present company in N.S.W. and
Victoria preceded the top possy down
south. He is a member of most Adelaide
race-clubs, and at the drop of a tote-
ticket will enlarge on his own pet bettmg-
system.
• •
Practical and academic experience
qualify J. H. Barton for his new job-
district - superintendent of secondary
education in Westralia. His main con-
cern will be agricultural education, and
the teaching of science and maths, in
On the way up, he took his
science degree and diploma in education
at the Westralian University; has been
science-master at Perth Modern, senior
lecturer in science at the Perth Teachers
Training College, and foundation-head-
master of the Harvey Agricultural High
School.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Bellambi (N.S.W.), at 80, Walter Russell
Blow (always “Tiki”), widely-experienced
tourist-agent, and, in 1913, appointed New
Zealand Government agent in Sydney.
In Perth, at 79, Albert Lofthouse, old British
Regular (Boer War and War I) before settling
at Wyndham (W.A.). More recently ot
Fremantle, he was one-time vice-president ot
the Fremantle R.S.L., and foundation-
treasurer of the league club there.
At Hokitika, at 88, James Donovan, New
Zealand’s oldest local-body representative. He
was a member of the Westland County Coun-
cil for 36 years, and for 30 hadn’t missed an
ordinary meeting, though he lived at isolated
Okarito, riding on horseback 90 miles before
there were roads.
In Melbourne, at 83, John Percy Jones,
Victorian Legislative Councillor for more than
30 years. He had been a Minister in .several
Governments, and was prominent in the
financial crisis of 1930-31, particularly in the
formation of the Premiers’ Plan.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 94, Victor John
Lamer, one-time director and chairman oi
several big enterprises, including South British
Insurance, Guardian Trust and Executors and
Claude Neon Lights. Appointed managing-
director of the Auckland Gas Co. a. few years
ago, in War II he chaired several servicemens
relief-associations.
In Perth, at 85, John Henry Tindale, one of
the first enrolled when the Westralian Pharma-
ceutical Register was commenced in 1892. He
retired only a few years ago.


THE HARVEST


ABORIGINALITIES
'W7ALKING along a Killara (N.S.W.)
* * bush-track I picked up a blue-
wrens’ nest with a narrow newspaper-
cutting woven-in over the entrance. It
read:
V.P. commodious dwelling, fine view,
owner going abroad. Tel.: JB, etc.
I could understand it all except the tele-
phone . . . that was surely a bit of swank.
-—“Rostand.”
* * * *
“Eldorado”: Prospectors seem to be a
dying race. Only the greybeards are left,
and modern youth will have nothing to
do with the game—they don’t like the
hard work, and there’s no regular wage
or prospect of overtime. The number of
prospectors seems to rise and fall with
depressions and booms respectively.
Oddly, though, now is the best time for
prospecting. Metal-prices are sky-high
and look like staying that way for a long
time. Every year new scientific dis-
coveries are announced, making the pros-
pector’s future brighter and brighter. Any
young fellow who gives it a go today
hasn’t a quarter of the trials of the old-
timers who went out into unknown
country. Everyone is out to help, from
the mining-warden to the highest Govern-
ment geologists. Science has come to
help with things like geiger-counters and
simple tests to identify any particular
mineral. The present-day prospector is
“They want to see the ‘ head'-waiter."
even shown where the most valuable
minerals are likely to be found!
* * * *
“Geep”: A mob of sheep met unex-
pectedly round a bend in the road caused
a fatal motoring-accident near Man-
jimup (W.A.). Two of the injured were
Shepherd and Lamb.
* * * •
“Benbow”: I’m surprised that “Quo
Vadis” missed-out Stoney Creek, Salt-
water Creek and Three Mile Creek in
naming the creeks in North Queensland.
These run close by nearly every country
town in the State! In fact, near our
town we have two Stoney Creeks and
two Three Mile Creeks. In the old days
the teamsters evidently measured their
distance from the pub by the creeks they
had to ford, and as the distance lessened
so did their originality.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: We could hardly believe our
eyes when, after the recent flood in the
Cooper country (Q.), we saw a late-model
utility dangling by a stout chain from
a big gum just above high-water mark.
Joe, we found, had been out in the maze
of channels when the slowly rising waters
marooned him on an island. There was
only one thing for it —swim—but the
ute was a new one and he grudged leav-
ing it to the floodwaters. He picked the
biggest gum he could find, got out the
winch and slowly and painfully winched
the ute up till it hung suspended from a
limb well above his estimate of flood-
level. He returned for it later when the
floods had passed on their way to Lake
Eyre and the channels were trafficable
once again.
* * * *
“Kate”: In Armadale (Vic.) we have a
blackbird with an albino streak in him.
One half of his head is white, the rest of
him black, and he is a true blackbird.
He’s been cock-o’-the-walk here now for
about three years.
* * * *
“P.W.R.”: As third-officer I was on
the bridge from eight to midnight on the
night our ship left Melbourne for
London. Towards the end of my watch
I noticed a queer-looking animal crossing
the foredeck-awning and disappearing
near the foot of the foremast. In the dim
light of a cycle moon it was hard to be
sure, but it didn’t look like a cat or a
rat. I sent the quartermaster below to
see if he could find out what it was. His
report was negative, and his expression
showed what he thought of me. The
second-officer, who relieved me at mid-
night, also seemed to think I was
imagining things. Then, towards morn-
ing there were frightened shouts from
the second-officer’s room—he had come
off watch at 4 a.m. I ran over to his
room and switched on the light. He was
sitting up in bed glaring around him. “A
flaming great snake slithered across my
head,” he stuttered. I had bare feet,
and glanced hurriedly around —to see a
bundle of grey fur coiled-up in one
corner of the settee. It was a big buck
possum.
“Warrakoo”: As a fellow-admirer of
Cystostamus frenatus —the honeyeater,
or, more correctly, the sunbird —I hate to
disagree with “Quo Vadis” (B. 2/11/’55),
but the same pair will use the original
nest for more than one brood. On my
desk lies such a nest, promised more than
three months ago to a Sydney schoolgirl
for her museum “as soon as the
fledglings flew.” Since then the original
tenants have reared a second brood, and
roundly abused me when I souvenired
the nest after the young ones had flown.
Urged on by her mate’s carolling, Mrs.
Cystostamus has just completed another
masterpiece of avian architecture on a
piece of rope strung as a lure in the
tractor-shed, but she hasn’t glued the
initial piece to the hanging thread. It
is securely bound by a piece of sticky
spider-web. And, as ever, my supply
of plumber’s-hemp has depreciated with,
the nest-building—it makes an excellent
lining. These charming little fellows
caused me to outlay a few bob on a pair
“Hullo, sister !”
of good binoculars to study their habits.
Their method of approach to a flower,
(such as a canna) too deep for their
curved beak is to pierce the base and
extract the nectar through the incision.
Whether this is accomplished by suction
or by oscillation of the prehensile
tongue I do not know, although I always
thought that a pigeon was the only bird
capable of actual suction when drinking.
* * * *
“Motuku”: In his note on sperm-
whales “Nangabrook” (B. 2/11/’55) con-
fuses sperm-oil with spermaceti, which is
not obtained from blubber but from a
large cavity in the huge head of the
“cashalot.” An oily white liquid of low
specific gravity, it is supposed to give
extra buoyancy to the whale when, with
a giant squid in its jaws, it has to surface
quickly from a great depth in order to
breathe —through a single nostril on the
left side of the head. The old >vhale-men,
mostly Yankee Down-Easters from Nan-
tucket, Martha’s Vineyard “and them
places,” chopped a hole in the top of the
head and baled-out the liquid. On
exposure to the air the waxy content of
the emulsion quickly separated from the
oil and solidified. It is this spermaceti-
wax which, when purified, is used for
making ointments, cosmetics and candles.
“Ex-Ped”: One would expect “Nanga-
brook’s” 55ft. whale (B. 9/11/’55) to
yield more than 2\ times as much oil as
a 40-footer —the mass of solid bodies of
the same shape and equal density is pro-
portional to the cube of respective
dimensions. Most fishermen know that
if a 2ft. fish weighs 41b. a 4ft. fish of the
same species and build should weigh
about 321 b., being twice as long, twice
as wide and twice as deep. With a
middle-age spread the 55-footer’s calcu-
lated yield of about 12.9 ton§ could easily
be increased to 15 tons.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Notice above the bar
in a North Queensland sugar-town:
“This bar is dedicated to those splendid
fellows who make drinking a pleasure,
who reach contentment prior to capacity,
and whatever they drink, can take it, hold
it, enjoy it, and remain gentlemen.” On
the wall opposite were posted two prohi-
bition notices.
* * # *
“N.G.W.”: The slicing of that New
Zealand hill by a clean cut to a depth
of 40ft. (B. 26/10/’55) might have been
caused by a sudden discharge of water
from a heavily-laden cloud striking the
hill’s summit. A similar happening in
the vicinity of the Namoi River (N.S.W.)
about 70 years ago was fully reported in
Sydney newspapers at the time. A
woman and her five children were killed
and their home and farm at the bottom
of the mountain were obliterated. The
husband was away at the time. Next
morning I saw the sudden rise of water
which swept down the river at an esti-
mated height of 20ft., to vanish as sud-
denly as it had arisen. The mountain had
been sliced to a depth of about 40ft.,
and even more in breadth. There was
no evidence to show that the water had
come from an underground source. Even
if it had the mountain would not have
been cut from its very summit to the
base.
“T.R.”: The steam-operated firewood-
saw at Stawell (Vic.) isn’t the only -one
(B. 2/11 /’55). The timber-mill at
Healesville (Vic.) is entirely powered by
steam. Incidentally, at the Upper Yarra
Dam at McVeigh’s they are using steam-
shovels really driven by steam.
* * * *
“Fairf”: My Dad and I were about to
start an addition-job in the bushiest part
of the district, and the bags of lime had
been rolled under the house. The lady-
of-the-house warned us: “My husband
said to be careful as you move the lime
—a big black snake got away from him
a couple of days ago and went under the
house ; he said it might be between the
bags.” Gingerly we were attempting to
reach under the confined space and roll
out the top bag when suddenly Dad
emitted a cry and grabbed his ankle.
He was so relieved to see his attacker that
instead of summarily booting that
mongrel heeler he wanted to pat him.
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: Crusty eyed his new mate,
and the big raw-boned fireman eyed him
back. “An’ ’ow are we goin’ t’ get on
together?” Crusty inquired gruffly. The
new mate had heard about Crusty’s repu-
tation ; he replied impassively, “If I don’t
get on with a bloke, I either leave th’
depot or punch ’is nose.” The guard
waved his flag. Crusty blew the whistle
and opened the throttle. The new mate
picked up the banjo, fired a round of coal,
then moved over to Crusty and remarked
casually, “I ain’t thinkin’ of leavin’ this
depot.” They are still working together.
* * * *
“Derwent”: Some time back a Tas-
manian country council was worried by
the toll motorists were taking of pen-
guins sauntering across the road. Now
someone has discovered that the bandi-
coot is well up on the road-fatality list,
too, and that of the two varieties in Tas-
mania—the striped and the short-nosed —
it is the former that mostly gets it in the
neck. Bandicoots are generally considered
a nuisance, particularly in the garden;
others declare that the animal-really per-
forms good service in destroying beetles
and pests. I don’t know, but judging by
the pits and tunnels in my own garden
they work hard for whatever they’re
after.
* * * *
“Winchester”: Thursday Island’s
meat-supply (B. 10/11/’55)? From my
memory drafts of cattle left Rokeby
station on the Coen River (Q.) several
times a year ; destination, Red Island, via
Paterson telegraph-station. From Red
Island two at a time were shipped to T. 1.,
but whether on the hoof or as beef I
can’t say now. Jack Nicol, of Ebagoolah,
in charge of one draft (1902), was fatally
injured on the way.
PADDLE-STEAMER
What images of life return
as summer comes around again,
flows with the ancient river down
beside the banks, lingers in pools
and gathers round- the paddle-wheel
of an old steamer, dozing on
through the hot Murray afternoon?
Can you express the thing in terms
of warped, bent timbers straightening,
paint that was cracked by many suns
becoming new; strong cords of weed
that web the keel into the mud
relaxing their green slimy knots?
Do paddles thresh the stream again
and ripples spread from bank to bank?
Do flocks of screaming parakeets
dart through the trees like emerald hail,
hearing the whistled bunyip cry
and blue cranes look up from their reeds
at the intruder churning past?
The sun burns on the Murray mud,
the steam lies dead in rusty pipes,
and other ghosts that use the stream
watch the old craft that lives again
glide in a Murray evening dream.
N.S-W.
ROBERT HUGHES.


m&wtiiF.
m
£
THE
IDEAL GIFT
Give your friends a Sparklet syphon. It
is a gift they will appreciate over and over again.
The Sparklet syphon gives you as much fresh ‘soda’
water as vou like; it is economical and simple to
use; and it looks attractive in any
home. Your friends will be proud
to own one and so will you.
To refill the Sparklet syphon
you just fill it with water; screw
on a new Sparklet Bulb; a quick
twist and another big syphon-full
is ready. It’s as simple as that.
m&m
M
W
■LjJL
THE
SPARKLET
SYPHON
SEE SPARKLET SYPHONS AT ALL GOOD STORES
Agents : WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED. Branches in all States
SPARKLETS LTD., LONDON, N. 17
Foundations of a
.
fine wardrobe...
.. . lie in your choice of Yarra Falls
suitings. When you specify Yarra
Falls cloth, you are assured of the
finest cloth made in Australia from
pure virgin wool. Your Yarra Falls
suit will give you prolonged wear,
constant fit, perfect satisfaction
throughout its extended life.
m
:x: :
vjxX;
mm
■m
r7 J
2
•Jtr
TV
r
r
&
&
Suitings of character.
7/5 5
WHETHER the season was open or
closed didn’t mean a thing to Dyna-
mite and Jack-hammer when they heard
wild turkeys were about the cane-grass
swamps. They were stowing a couple
of fine birds in the boot of the car when
the local cop drove up unexpectedly.
“Sorry, boys,” he said, “I’ll have to con-
fiscate those and charge you with shoot-
ing turkeys in the closed season.” “Aw,
have a heart,” Dan appealed. “We were
going to make you a present of them in
any case.” “Now, were you really?” the
cop said. “There’s nothing I like better
than a feed of wild turkey. But it looks
as if I’ll miss out —you’ve knocked over
a couple of undersized emus. Still, I
don’t mind emu-chicken, either.” “Sure,”
agreed Joe. “They’re undersized emus,
all right, and you’re welcome to ’em.”
The two of them watched silently as the
cop threw the turkeys into the back of
his ute and sped-off with their Sunday
dinner.—“C.A.L.”
* * * He
“8.C.”: Kidstuff: “How many pets
have y’ got?” “Thirty-one.” “Golly!
What sort?” “A blue budgie, three zebs
and twenty-seven silkworms.”
* * * *
“Wingella”: Bushmen never went short
of an iron when they wanted to look
Hash in pre-war days (B. 19/10/’55). They
used the old-fashioned square gin-bottle.
Being square, it lay flat on the table, and
it could be used for smoothing shirts,
trousers, ties and so forth. The small
neck and the spout made it easy to hold.
I’ve seen work done with the old square-
bottle that any professional ironer would
be proud to claim.
* * * •
“Motuku”: Some willy-wagtails can
be coaxed into a house (B. 2/10/’55). My
neighbor regularly feeds a pair in his
kitchen —one at a time now that they’re
nesting. They could not compete with
currawong and co. at the regular morn-
ing hand-out, so with very small cheese-
crumbs they were gradually led up the
garden path and up the steps. Now they
never fly straight in, but always, land on
the lawn, run up the path, hop up the
steps one at a time and turn to look all
round before venturing in. When the
feeding bird has had enough it gives a
few little cheeps, fills its bill with all
that it can hold and goes over the house
and away to the nest. If Pop is mowing
the lawn when the hungry bird arrives
it runs up and down behind him, twitter-
ing until he says, “Oh, all right. Come
on, Willy.” Then it runs behind him to
the kitchen-steps.
“McLuke”: The sparks seen at night
from the earthing-chain (B. 21/9/’55)
are undoubtedly caused by friction—the
spark due to static electricity would be
almost imperceptible to the naked eye,
even at close range. There seems to be
evidence, however, that earthing does
reduce car-sickness, and maybe airline-
companies should investigate the idea of
trailing a long wire up and down the air-
route in order to reduce air-sickness. On
the other hand, ships are earthed con-
stantly, and there is probably more sick-
ness on them than on the other two forms
of transport put together. Me? I’m for
pills.
* * * *
“Kesem”: Has Sid Black ever seen
an unmatched, patch on a gin’s skirt (B.
2/11 / ’55)? If torn clothes are given to
them, gins wear ’em, tears and all; if
the dusky lady is mission-bred she’ll
generally be too well trained to affix a
griped patch on a plain skirt. Certainly
she wouldn’t use those “homeward-
bound’-’ stitches —ever seen the exquisite
weaving of the abos?
* # * *
“Woorarra”: I was surprised this
morning to hear that tough character the
grey-backed butcher-bird engaged in
baby-talk. Perched in a large casuarina,
with brood, of three about her, she
emitted a series of low, babyish gurgles
that were immediately repeated by the
listening trio. The youngsters were apt
and diligent pupils. Over and over again,
while Ma watched intently, they repeated
the not-unmelodious but distinctly
juvenile jumble of notes. Something
about the youthful chorus struck me as
vaguely familiar, but it wasn’t till the
adult bird sprang suddenly ,to a higher
bough and gave forth in full splendor
that melodious flow of flutelike notes for
which her family is famous that I realised
I had witnessed, in fact, a singing-lesson
for baby butcher-birds.
* * * *
“Benbow”: Animals swimming in
shark-infested waters (B. 12/10/’55)? A
small pony on Great Palm Island off the
Queensland coast swam frequently to
Curacoa Island, nearly a mile away, and
had to be brought back with difficulty
each time. His best effort was to induce
a draughthorse to accompany him. The
draught was shod and his forelegs must
have been nicked by brushing. The blood
attracted sharks, as it always will. The
pony was not molested.
OXALIS
Like a streak of sunlight the flowers gleam on
the grass, ... ..
Yellow as summer. They worship the warmth
of the sun, . . ~
And open at mid-Jay only; but if it is cola
Will hang their furled petals all day. Only one
Brief hour they may open in weeks of wintry
weather; .
But then, for that hour, what intense, oh,
ineffable bright,
Pure color! —as over the distant paddocks the
flowers .
Lift their frail heads, and open with love to
the light.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


The Man on the Land...
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve his
Estate for those whom, under his Will, he desires to benefit .
s.V.'Vi*v>
* r .
«TMS
v'S
•*v>
r-
■
HI
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the interests
of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention.
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
Write for a free
booklet.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
{Vice-Chairman)
A. E. Bond J. H. Faviell
F. B. Fleming G. B. Kater
Manager: jV. L. Shaw
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary: Chief Trust Officers
P. H. Andrews M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.tOI.IB
Busine ss, Robbe ry, Etc.
No-par-value Shares
"PROPOSALS made by Placer
-*• Development to convert its
shares of one Canadian dollar
into three Shares of “no par-
value” has aroused some interest
in Australia in a system which
has been operating in most
parts of the United States for
many years, and for a shorter
period in Canada.
The share of no par-value was
devised originally to prevent the
public being misled by high par-
values on shares that were, in-
trinsically, almost worthless.
Clearly an “equity” share —
ordinary share in Australia,
“common stock” in the U.S.A.
—rarely has exactly a backing in
net assets equal to its par-value.
Usually its assets are more than
the par-value of its shares;
sometimes they are less.
Apparently in order to force
a prospective investor into look-
ing into the figures of any com-
pany he proposes to invest in,
the no-par-value system was in-
troduced in America. The guid-
ing figure, instead of a par-
value, becomes the book-value
of the net tangible assets per
issued share. To the sophisti-
cated investor in Australia, even
though no no-par-value system
operates here, net tangible
assets and earning-power per
share are the significant factors
in an investment anyway.
But the novice is often intimi-
dated by the price of a £1 share
which stands at, say, 635. in the
sharemarket, even though it may
be backed by 90s. in assets and
have an average annual earning-
rate of 10s. a share. The
difference between par-value and
market-price suggests to him
that the share is too highly
priced, regardless of asset-back-
ing and earning-power, even
though he might quite obviously
be buying on a dearer basis
in the case of a £1 share at
17s. 6d.
However, whether possessing
a par-value or no par-value,
highly-priced shares are rather
forbidding to the investor, and
it has become the practice of
many companies to split-up their
shares, thus making them look
“cheaper” on the sharemarket,
though the usual effect is for the
new investor to pay more for
his equity than he would if the
shares were not subdivided.
In the U.S.A. both preference
and ordinary shares are issued
with no par-value. In the case
of prefs. it is usual to stipu-
late the div.-rate in so many
dollars or cents a share, and
not as a percentage. The ords.,
too, are paid whatever divs. that
may be declared from time to
time in dollars or cents per share.
This has become a practice in
the U.S.A. even where the
shares have a par-value, and it
is customary to estimate earn-
ings at so much a share, not at a
percentage on capital.
In issuing new no-par-value
shares, the price may be deter-
mined by shareholders at a
special meeting, or the pricing-
authority may be delegated to
the directors. The issue-price
could be arranged to accord with
the market-price, whether high
or low, without regard to any
par-value inhibition whatsoever.
The proceeds of an issue would
simply become capital, without
any differentiation between capi-
tal and “premiums.”
Bennett and Wood
r T''HE sharemarket has cocked
an eye at the price asked
for 100,000 10s. stock-units in
Bennett and Wood, Ltd. —
255. 6d. per unit, to give a yield
of 7 p.c. from a \l\ p.c. div.
Average profit, on a public-
co. basis, has been equal to 24.3
p.c. on capital over the past three
years. Asset-backing per 10s.
unit is 295. 2d.
There are tax-free funds equal
to 4s. lOd. per stock-unit. Paid
capital is £562,636. The co. has
a large business in motor-car
parts and accessories and
bicycles.
Hosiery Cos.
nnHE trading reverses suffered
by Lustre Hosiery and
Holeproof (N.S.W.), Ltd., are
indicative of conditions in the
N.S.W. hosiery trade. Though
Australian output of women’s
hosiery for 1954-55 was a record,
most manufacturers finished the
year with higher stocks left on
their hands. And during the first
few months of the current finan-
cial year output of hosiery has
fallen away noticeably.
Holeproof (N.S.W.), Ltd.,
believes that the more efficient
manufacturers will get relief
from the closing-down of
machines operating on narrow
profit-margins, and by import-
cuts. Business at present is
more competitive than last year,
and retailers, knowing that
manufacturers are carrying more-
than-ample stocks, are buying
on a hand-to-mouth basis.
Credit-restriction is probably a
factor in this attitude.
Wapet Activity
SHARP rises in Ampol Ex-
ploration shares last week
followed whispers of favorable
developments tipped for the next
two months. However, most of
the uplift was lost almost as
quickly as it was won.
The W.A. Government has
agreed to extend the existing
titles held by Wapet for another
year, and has also agreed that
subsequent annual extensions
will be granted for a further
four years, “should the company
meanwhile continuously follow a
programme of operations com-
parable financially and techni-
cally to those at present being
conducted.”
The Wapet board has
approved a budget of £3 million
for active exploration during
1956.
Exploration and drilling will
continue in the permit-areas
during the year. The present
geological and geophysical effort
will be maintained. There will
oe four gravity-meter crews,
three seismograph crews, four
geological field-parties and a
structural-drilling unit con-
tinuously at work.
The bulk of plant, equipment
and field camp-installations
required have been provided out
of the £lO million spent by
Wapet to date. Consequently,
the £3 million allocated for
1956 will be available principally
for active exploration.
Exploration of new areas will
depend upon the speed with
which present exploration is
carried out. More work, how-
ever, will be done in the Canning
Basin area. This promises to be
a long job.
Wapet is to drill a second test-
well in the Kimberley area at
Fraser River, about 50 miles
across King Sound from Derby.
This well is to be drilled with
the National 100 rig which has
been operating at Grant Range.
Drilling of the Grant Range
No. 1 well was suspended on
October 15 at a depth of
12,915 ft. Electric logs, a
velocity-survey, and other tests
were carried out on the well. The
hole has been left in condition
so that deeper drilling can be
undertaken with a bigger rig at
a future date if any new informa-
seismic-survey didn’t give a clear
sub-surface picture, and the
successive dry holes showed that
the structure was much more
complex than had originally
been thought.
Therefore, it was decided to
suspend drilling until the com-
plexities of the structure had
been unravelled by the use of
more advanced seismograph
equipment and methods.
Even with this latest equip-
ment numerous technical diffi-
culties were encountered before
usable data were obtained.
The results of Rough Range
No. 9, Wapet says, will indicate
if it is necessary to modify or
change these methods in order
to obtain reliable sub-surface
data. But if the well proves the
latest seismic interpretation
correct, and the location is pro-
ductive, the size of the accumu-
lation and its commercial
character will still not be proved
until further work is done.
Maoriland Uranium
■jy/TAORILAND Prime Minister
-*-*-*- Holland says that on pre-
sent evidence there is no com-
mercial significance in the recent
discovery of a uranium lode in
tion developed should warrant
this.
The new well-site is located in
an area about 15 miles due north
of Nillibubbaca water-bore,
which is on the main Broome-
Derby road.
A new well, Rough Range
No. 9, will be drilled two miles
south of the Rough Range No.
1 discovery-well. The mobile
T 32 rig has been moved to the
site and has spudded-in.
The decision to drill the well
was made after study of the
latest seismograph results
obtained on Rough Range.
The new well, Wapet says, is
being drilled as a partial check
on the methods of seismograph
surveying at present being used.
This survey was begun in July
of this year after Wapet had
drilled seven dry holes around
the No. 1 discovery-well.
The selection of these seven
well-sites had been guided by
surface geology and the result
of a 1952 seismic survey, as
well as progressive geological
interpretation of each well
drilled. However, the 1952
Buller Gorge, on the west coast
of the South Island.
The Kulnura Well
T}ROM H. G. Raggatt, sec-
retary, Department of
National Development, Can-
berra :
In B. 23/11/’55, Mr. L. Owen
states that the Kulnura well
(N.S.W.) was drilled “on an
almost perfect (from the text-
book point of view) dome, and
was abandoned as a ‘duster’ at
the depth of over 6000 ft.”
As I discovered and mapped
the Kulnura structure, I wish to
point out that it was far from
being a perfect dome at the
surface, though it may have had
adequate closure at depth.
Whether it did or not, however,
was conjectural, and I personally
was not in favor of its being
drilled until a great deal more
was known about the Sydney
Basin.
I write this note solely so that
shareholders and intending
shareholders in Australian Oil
and Gas Corporation, Ltd., will
not draw wrong inferences from
a statement that a perfect struc-
ture in the Sydney Basin has
already been tested at Kulnura
and proved to be “dry.”
Davis Gelatine
npHE shares in Davis Gelatine
-*• have had a smart recovery
to 295. 6d. since they were
pointed out on this page when
they fell to 265. in the market
setback about two weeks ago.
They are essentially a holding
proposition, however, and ex-
pectations for the immediate
future should not run beyond
the indicated 7 p.c. dividend.
Even if earnings should prompt
a slightly higher rate, it is clear
that the board believes in build-
ing-up financial strength as a
cardinal principle.
W. H. Lober Holdings
RUSHED by the public, the
issue of 350,000 ss. ords. at
par by W. H. Lober Holdings,
Ltd., Sydney, opened and closed
almost immediately. It was
underwritten and taken firm by
lan Potter and Co. Total paid
capital will be £260,000.
The operating co., W. H.
Lober and Co. Pty., Ltd., is
Sydney and metropolitan distri-
butor of Holdens, Oldsmobiles
and Cadillacs.
Net asset backing for the ss.
shares in the public co. will be
about 55., mostly in surplus
liquids and stocks. Earnings of
the operating co. in 1954-55 were
equal to' 40 p.c. on the new
holding co.’s capital, compared
with 27 p.c. in the preceding
year.
The prospectus of the issue
says that sales figures of W. H.
Lober and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
been increasingly progressive.
Australia may be running into
rather different motor - car
weather next year, but Holden
agents should continue to do
well.
Brown and Dureau
T OSS of £297,781 for the year
to June 30 by Brown and
Dureau, Ltd., importers and
exporters, arose entirely from its
tractor business, mostly on
stocks bought before the 1951
recession. Last term the crawler-
tractor division showed a loss of
£236,960 on disposal sales, and
the wheel-tractor division a loss
of £86,645.
A profit of £33,883 was made
by other sections of the business,
subject to N.Z. income-tax of
£8059.
It is expected that remaining
tractor stocks will be sold with-
out loss on present stock-valua-
tions.
Its tractor venture has cer-
tainly bulldozed the old-estab-
lished Brown and Dureau
agency business out of its
accustomed shape. A proportion
of its capital appears to have
disappeared, and 4lo ord. div. has
been paid since 1951. The £1
shares are at 7s. on ’Change.
Motels
Australia is just becoming
interested in “motels” —that
is, residential units under a
central control, with centralised


GIVE HIM A
The present
that gives
daily
pleasure
from rare old roots of great
age. Only finest grains are
selected. With a Barling
Pipe you get the result of
the experience of the oldest
firm of pipe makers in
England. There is no
"breaking in," and to
ensure free draught, only
finest quality vulcanite is
bored.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL
LEADING TOBACCONISTS
Trade Enquiries:
Box 502, G.P.0., Sydney.
offered by
General Credits Ltd.
(Sponsored by the Automobile Fire and General Insurance Company
of Australia Limited)
Directors : Sir John Newman-Morris, C.M.G., (Chairman),
J. M. Ford, V. H. Stanley-Low (Managing), E. W. Cox,
John Glen, Eric Hughes, J. F. Hughes, F. G. Menzies,
C.B.E.
Mortgage Debenture Stock
Details of currencies and rates in the Prospectus available
from any branch of the Commonwealth Trading Bank of
Australia throughout Australia, any member of the
Stock Exchange and any office of the Company.
UNDERWRITERS : J. B. WERE & SON
This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to
subscribe for the debenture stock mentioned herein.
GC6
BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER 1955
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers £25,539,929
Money at Short Call —London 1,062,500
Short-dated Treasury Bills Australia 10,000,000
36,602,429
63,720,000
8,486,977
21,927,911
985,762
59,955,022
7,438,480
199,116,581
273,918,153
7,000,000
1,000,000
669,404
481,704,138
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit, Guarantees, etc., as
per contra 48,414,027
£530,118,165
NOTE: Funds subscribed for shares In Bank of New South Wales
Savings Bank Limited are lodged on deposit in the Company’s
account with Bank of New South Wales. As at 30th September,
1955, the Company had not commenced operations and had made
neither profit nor loss.
LIABILITIES
Issued and Paid-up Capital—6sB,soo Ordin-
ary Shares of £2O eaeh
Reserve Fund £10,000,000
Proposed Addition for the
Year 250,000
Proposed Final Dividend, payable Novem-
ber 1955
Profit carried forward
Shareholders' Funds 24,744,160
Deposits, Accrued Interest, Rebate, Bills
Payable and other Liabilities, including
Reserve for Contingencies 455,718,694
Notes in Circulation 80,917
Balances Due to Other Banks 1,160,367
481,704,138
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits, Guarantees, etc., as
per contra .. .. 48,414,027
£530,118,165
Net Profit for Year ended 30th September
1955 £1,693,895
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
DIRECTORS
Sir LESLIE MORSHEAD, k.c.b., k.b.e., c.m.g., d. 5.0., President
£13,170,000
10,250,000
296,325
1,027,835
Loans and Advances to Customers and
Local Bills Discounted (less Provision
for Bad and Doubtful Debts) ..
Bank Premises at Cost, less amounts
written off
Shares in Bank of New South Wales
Savings Bank Limited (See note) .. ..
All other Assets
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank
of Australia
Statutory Deposit with Reserve Bank of
New Zealand
Government Securities Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji and London, at or under
Market Value
Local and Semi-Government Authorities’
Securities, at or under Market Value
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Transit ..
Amounts due by Other Banks
The Hon. Sir
COLIN A. SINCLAIR, k.b.e.
JOHN CADWALLADER, Esq.
The Hon. R. C. WILSON,
C.M.G., M.L.C.
V.
D. B. LEWINGTON, Esq.
S. G. ROWE, Esq., d.s.o.
V. C. FAIRFAX, Esq.
General Manager— H. C. C MARSHALL
Assistant General Manager —R. J. ABERCROMBIE
Chief Inspectors —D. W. GARLAND.
R. R. McKELLAR, A. STEWART-RICHARDSON
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A 55448/
services, but with individual and
informal features ; you can park
your car at your front-door,
doing-away with the necessity
(if you’re lazy) even to unpack
your bags.
In Canada there are already
5000 motels across the country.
They began in Vancouver, and
the idea travelled east. The
average Canadian motel, it is
reckoned, has from 10 to 20
rooms and averages in cost from
$200,000 to $400,000. Tariffs
vary from seven to ten dollars a
night for two persons.
In the U.S.A. the motel has
been a feature of tourist-life for
years.
In Australia, Accommodation
(Aust.), Ltd., is going ahead with
plans for up to 12 motels of 30
rooms each. It will operate on
the pay-in-advance, leave-when-
you-please principle. It has an
issue of 1,530,000 ss. shares
paid to 3s. 6d. each. The share-
market pays par or a little under
for them.
Manufacturing Activity
HALF-YEARLY report by the
Division of Industrial
Development, Canberra, in-
dicates that Australian manufac-
turing activity has increased
from the record levels of April,
1955. A few industries —cloth-
ing, textiles, hosiery and refriger-
ators —which reported falling
production in April, 1955» now
report rises.
Increased local production
and higher imports supplied in-
dustry in 1954-55 with a greater
volume of materials than ever
before. No shortages of any
magnitude existed, though some
materials were not in free supply,
chiefly steel items.
Bank - accommodation to
manufacturers rose by £52
million between June, 1954, and
June, 1955. A considerable part
of this appears to have been used
to finance increases in stock. To
date, manufacturers report little
difficulty in financing operations
and current expansion.
Keen competition was reported
in many industries, and efforts
have been made to keep prices
stable, despite rising costs, prin-
cipally of materials. However,
in some industries (chiefly metal-
producing and -using), prices
have risen since April, largely
because of the influence of in-
creases in world prices. One or
two industries, where a sellers’
market exists, have tended to
raise price. Prices have fallen in
most textiles, clothing and
hosiery largely because of reduc-
tions in materials-costs, and
under the pressure of competi-
tion.
(The effect of these conditions
on profits, especially earnings of
textile-manufacturers, has been
more severe than the report of
the Division of Industrial De-
velopment would suggest.)
Building-materials generally
were readily available, although
demand was at high levels. Build-
ing construction in all States,
except Western Australia, was
higher than before, with com-
mercial and industrial construc-
tion making up for some slight
fall in dwelling-construction in
New South Wales and Queens-
land.
During 1955 many factories
were able to raise output without
a corresponding increase in
labor employed. This reflects the
influence of continued heavy in-
vestment in new plant and
equipment and a quickening
interest in improved production
methods.
Employment in manufacturing
industry has risen slightly since
April. Skilled labor is still in
short-supply, but unskilled labor
can generally be obtained.
Stock-holdings have increased
in 1955 —in the majority of cases
in anticipation of reduced sup-
plies following tightening of im-
port-controls. In a few instances
—ammonium - sulphate ; baths,
stoves and sinks; radios; and
hosiery—stocks have risen be-
cause production is running
ahead of demand. Stocks of
aluminium ingot have been
reduced because of shortage of
supplies.
Development continued at a
high rate with big increases in
capacity coming into operation
and others moving toward com-
pletion. Such basic industries as
steel, non-ferrous metals,
chemicals, oil-refining, cement,
pulp and paper, motor-vehicles
and farm - machines figure
prominently in this progress.
Manufacturers are concerned
that steel shortages may develop
as a result of import-licensing.
They also expect that import-
restriction will delay ordering
and arrival of machinery and
equipment. Some reduction in
supplies may therefore become
evident, although stocks can be
drawn on to some extent, and
increases in local productive
capacity will make a useful con-
tribution.
It is expected that the overall
level of manufacturing activity
will be at least maintained during
the summer. However, Australia
is currently facing economic
difficulties, due largely to an
adverse balance on overseas
account which has necessitated
an intensification of import-re-
strictions and action to restrain
demand.
The effects of this action may
become more evident in the
months ahead. On the other
hand, import-restrictions will
tend to stimulate demand on
some Australian industries. The
situation will, of course, be
influenced by export prospects.
Most manufacturing industries
have experienced increased pro-
duction and demand over April,
1955 ; a few showed little, if any,
movement either way, and a few
showed a fall. One important
industry that showed a more
than normal fall in production
and sales in winter was cement;
but production has recently
shown signs of recovery. Pro-
duction and demand for refriger-
ators, though improving above
April, 1955, have been much
below October, 1954 ; while pro-
duction of washing-machines has
been down a little, chiefly
because of interruptions to pro-
duction involved in tooling for
new models.
Manufacturing industries are
operating at a high level in all
States of the Commonwealth.
Conditions in Victoria and South
Australia are on the whole more
buoyant than in N.S.W. and
Queensland, while various fac-
tors, including unfavorable
weather, have influenced activity
in Western Australia. Generally,
manufacturers expect a slacken-
ing in the rapid rate of increase
in activity experienced over the
last two years.
Carpenter-Hedstrom Deal
f \FFER by W. R. Carpenter
and Co., Ltd., of 3± Car-
penter shares of ss. each, plus
30s. in cash, for each Morris
Hedstrom £1 ord. brought a
leap from 575. to 965. for M.H.
ords. Morris Hedstrom direc-
tors in Fiji recommend accept-
ance of the offer, which is con-
ditional on acceptance by 75
p.c. of M.H. ords. by January
10, 1956.
On the basis of 21s. 6d. for
W. R. Carpenter shares, the
offer is equal to 105 s. for each
M.H. ord.
If the deal goes through and
W- R. Carpenter acquires all of
Morris Hedstrom’s 520,407 ords.
it will involve the issue of
1,821,424 ss. W.R.C. ords. and
payment of £780,610 in cash.
Carpenter’s present issued
capital is 3,400,000 ss. ords.


Discussion of your needs —in complete
confidence —is cordially invited. Call
or write for a copy of “Important
Facts Concerning Wills, Executors,
Trustees! 1
A SERVICE OF GREAT VALUE TO
Business and Professional Men
To the man who has acquired valuable business
interests and seeks an assurance that there will
be no dislocation or lack of efficient control
after his death, Union Trustee provides the
solution.
By appointing Union Trustee as Executor,
Trustee, Manager or Attorney, such a man
ensures sympathetic, efficient administration
of all his business and individual requirements
and the future security of his Estate.
UNI O N
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated la Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton and Charleville
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
A NNOUNCEMENT that, at this stage,
it is not intended to issue any more
ord. shares —other than for completion
of the Foy and Gibson deal —focuses
attention on the dividend-rate, which was
lifted from p.c. for the two years to
1953 to 10 p.c. for the two years to July
31 last. The board says it expects to
maintain the higher rate, despite the
effects of rapid expansion of the organi-
sation, chiefly by take-overs, upon the
financial structure, etc. The market there-
fore looks upon the scrip as a holding
proposition, with prospects, subject to
economic developments, of course.
At 6s. lOd. (7s. a year ago) the f.-p.
ss. ords. return 7.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. Including scrip yet to be issued in
settlement of the Foy and Gibson deal,
net tangible cover (book-value) is 7s. 6d.
The well-protected £1 7 p.c. A and B
prefs. at 20s. 6d. each yield 6.8 p.c.
Since 1950 paid capital has shot up
from £650,000 to £4,081,490, and total
assets from £1,786,164 to £9,891,043.
The organisation now comprises a chain
of 42 retail shops—ll Victoria, 10 Wes-
tralia, eight N. S. Wales, six each South
Australia and Tasmania and one Can-
berra —and three large department-stores,
all of which are fed partly from Austra-
lian manufactures and partly from
buying offices in London, Milan and
Tokyo.
In 1952 Economic Stores (Perth) was
bought for £353,500. During the follow-
ing year Sydney Snow Pty. (Sydney) was
taken over at a cost of approximately
£1,500,000. In April, 1955, in what be-
came virtually an international auction,
the co. was the successful bidder for the
1,719,000 f.-p. £1 ords. in Foy and Gib-
son, Ltd., whose main store is at the
corner of Swanston- and Bourke-street,
Melbourne, and which has branches at
Fitzroy, Prahran, Colac and Adelaide, as
well as a substantial shareholding in Foy
and Gibson (W.A.), Ltd. To prevent the
Westralian business falling into other
hands, the holding therein has been
recently increased to a controlling interest
by open-market purchases of the scrip.
Cox Bros.’ offer for the Melbourne co.’s
shares was four of its own f.-p. ss. ords.,
plus 255. cash, for each f.-p. £1 F. and G.
ord. The total sum involved was
£3,867,750, of which £1,719,000 was in
scrip (face-value) and £2,148,750 cash.
At July 31 last F. and G.’s net tangibles
totalled £5,006,516 (book-value). That
excluded Foy’s Eagley Mills —not in-
cluded in the transaction —and was after
freeholds had been written up by
£1,831,875 and investments by £218,895.
So, after deducting Foy’s pref. capital
(£650,000), Cox Bros, could see an
accounting surplus of £488,766 on the
deal.
Again excluding Eagley Mills, Foy’s
profit for the year to July 31 last was
£148,102, of which pref. divs. called for
£36,000, leaving £112,102 available for
the ords., equal to a shade under 3 p.c.
on the total cost to Cox Bros. A substan-
tial improvement in net earnings is ex-
pected to follow reorganisation of the
business and adoption of new trading
methods.
After eliminating outside shareholders’
interest, combined net earnings of the
group (including Foy’s figures) increased
by £184,094:
Cox Bros.
, Dividends N
A Pref. B Pref. Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. , Ord. \ serves.*
£ & & & &
1952.. 80,531 11,724 8610 H p.c. = 65,625 626,560
Profit sale freehold, £69,142 .. 695,702
Reduction revaluation reserve, £40,550 655,152
1958.. 446 11,724 8610 7$ p.c. = 65,625 670,639
Cox Bros, and SußsiDiAßiEs.f
To revaluation reserve, £5351 .. 675,990
Underwriting exes., £14,584 .. 661,406
Reduction reserves, etc., £12,058.. 649,348
1954.. 403 11,724 8610 10 p.c. =lOO,OOO 735,417
Add subsidiaries’ reserves, £390,671.. 1,126,088
To freehold revaluation res., £553,045 1,679,133
Underwriting exes., £26,042.. ..1,653,091
Flood losses, £2656 1,650,435
1955.. 390.497 11.724 8610 10 p.c. =181,250 1,839,348
•After deducting goodwill (£42,070), written out
of accounts in 1951. t After deducting outside
shareholders’ interests.
The £390,497 of profit—which leaves out
of the reckoning non-recurring adjust-
ments to reserves interlined in the table
—was enough to pay Cox’s own pref.
divs. and show a wink under 10 p.c. on
ord. capital as it will stand when the
Foy transaction is complete. When the
reorganised Foy business gets into its
stride, net earnings of the group are
expected to exceed £450,000 p.a., after
deducting outside interests. Excluding
Foy’s profit—the business was not actu-
ally taken over until August 1, 1955 —•
net earnings of the rest of the Cox group
were £278,395 (up £71,992), or enough
to pay the pref. divs. and show 14.2 p.c.
on the relative average ord. capital as
against 18.5, 9.3, 6.9 and 14.4 p.c. back
to 1951.
In the next table the 1955 figures are
not strictly comparable with the previous
year’s, because the Foy deal was only
partly complete when the books closed:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £1,165,490 £1,540,490 £3,650,160
Reserves .. .. 670,639 735,417 1,839,348
Outside interest.. 96,782 819,406
Notes .. .. 250,000 850,000 '350,000
Mortgages, etc... 864,844 1,829,469 3,523,769
Overdraft ~ 437,069 979,063 1,701,947
Creditors, etc. .. 101,553 298,602 1,433,264
Tax provision .. 103,500 111,000 291,707
Final div. .. 42,979 69,522 131,554
Total . . £3,636,064 £5,510,345 £13,741,145
Freeholds .. 1,272,554 1,984,871 6,218,043
Leaseholds. .. 58,128 51,650 56,171
Plant .. .. 290,262 462,349 728,412
Shares . . .. 625,819
Stocks . . .. 1,048,680 1,480,744 3,379,953
Debtors .. .. 953,455 1,474,060 2,671,972
Cash, etc. .. 17,986 56,671 161,275
Total . . £3,636,064 £5,610,345 £18,741,145
During the year £750,000 of fresh ord.
capital was gathered at par. When all
Foy’s ords. have been acquired, Cox’s
paid capital will be £4,081,490 in 167,475
A and 123,015 B prefs., all of £1 each
and 7 p.c. cumulative, and 14,876,000 ss.
ords. To lighten the overdraft and pro-
vide more working capital, £2,000,000
of 6\ p.c. 10-year mortgage debentures
were offered just before the close of
accounts, and the underwriters were left
with £352,900 of the issue. When the
books closed there was £818,700 of the
nioney still to come. Appearances are
that at next balance the amount of out-
side money in the business will approxi-
mate shareholders’ funds.
/' —————
Ausdis Holding, Ltd.
nrHIS big holding co. and its sub-
-*■ sidiaries are on the way to becom-
ing an integrated group of merchandising,
manufacturing and finance concerns with
activities centred mainly in the auto-
motive industry. In June, 1953, the hold-
ing co. took over Austin Distributors,
Ltd., including the Victorian franchise
for Austin cars, etc., third best-seller on
the market. The Distributors co., whose
ord. div. climbed from \2\ p.c. in 1947
to 40 p.c. for the two years to 1953, had
a paid capital of £225,000 in 37,500 £1
6 p.c. prefs. and 750,000 ss. ords. The
pref. capital was returned at a premium
of 30 p.c., and each ss. ord. was
exchanged for one f.-p. £1 Ausdis ord.
The deal was thus equivalent to a four-
for-one bonus share-issue. Ausdis paid
a maiden 30 p.c. followed by 25 p.c. last
term, the lower rate being equal to 100
p.c. on the face-value of holding before
the exchange.
Meanwhile, various sections of the
business were passed to subsidiaries, and
the undertaking has been expanded by
acquisition of additional interests. At
June 30 last paid capital had increased
to £1,047,386, following purchase of
Howard Auto-Cultivators, Ltd. To help
finance expansion 262,500 new £1 ords.
were issued at par, one for four, to those
on the register at September 30 last. On
December 3 they are to be further
rewarded with a one-for-four issue of
bonus-scrip from an assets-revaluation
reserve. Paid capital will thus become
£1,640,625, on which a 20 p.c. div. would
call for £328,125, or £48,840 less profit
than was claimed last term. Presently the
co.’s name is to be changed to Auto-
motive and General Industries, Ltd.,
nominal capital is to be raised to
£5,000,000, and the £1 shares are to be
split into ss. units.
The price of the f.-p. £1 shares shot up
from 40s. 3d. to 48s. following announce-
ment of the gift, which will make net
cost, including brokerage, 38s. 9d. The
return at 38s. 9d. would be 10.3 p.c. on
a 20 p.c. distribution. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is approximately
425.
At June 30 last the operating offshoots
were:
Austin Distributors Pty. (capital and
reserves £654,000): Sole Victorian distri-
butors Austin vehicles.
Ausdis Spares & Service Pty. (capital
and reserves £405,000): Sales of parts and
servicing.
Continental & General Distributors
Pty. (capital and reserves £107,000): Aus-
tralian distributors Simca cars, Stacatruc
fork-lift trucks, materials equipment, etc.
Subsidiaries: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty.,
Melbourne; Continental Cars Pty., Bris-
bane.
Ausdis Finance Pty. (capital and
reserves £282,000): Hire-purchase finance.
Northern Engineering Pty. (capital and
reserves £385,000): Motor-vehicle assembly
and body manufacturers.
Howard Auto-Cultivators Pty. (capital
and reserves £746,000): Manufacturers of
rotary-tillage and irrigation equipment,
stationary engines, auto-parts, etc. Subsidi-
ary : Rotary Hoe Cultivators >Pty,
Continental and General Distributors
was formed to take over the Australian
franchise for Aronde and Vedette cars,
two Simca (French) units comparatively
new to the local market. It is hoped to
have about 1500 of these units available
for distribution by June 30 next. The
assembly and body-work involved should
gradually replace similar work connected
with Austin vehicles, whose assembly,
etc., is about to pass to a new local off-
shoot of the big British Motors Corp.
The co. assembled about 4500 Austin
units during the nine months to June 30
last. Minimum economic level of pro-
duction is put at 3000 Simca units per
annum. Enough work is in hand to
ensure profitable operations for the
current term.
The Howard business (paid capital
£500,000) was bought in April last for
£300,000 in scrip, on a three-for-five
basis. Some old lines have been scrapped,
others modernised, and production—
plant-capacity is in excess of current
demand —is being extended to auto-
parts and materials-handling equip-
ment. Buildings and plant are being
“renovated” at cost of about £250,000,
part of which will come from savings in
working capital. As the Australian com-
ponent of British and other vehicles
increases much is expected from produc-
tion and sale of auto-parts.
Group turnover for the year was nearly
£8 million, of which £6 million was in
respect of motor-vehicles and parts and
£1.5 million assembly and manufacture.
The number of Austin vehicles sold was
6362 (up 1718). Aggregate net earnings
of the group was put at £376,968 (up
£92,744):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June Profit, f— Dividend N serves. serves.
30, £ £ £ £
Prelim, expenses written off, £7034.. 1,442,248
Investments written down to par,
£576,367 866,881
1954. .284,224 30 p.c. =225,000 59,224 925,105
Profit sale assets, etc., £88,098 .. 1,013,203
Reserves of subsidiaries, £202,877 .. 1,216,080
Share premiums, £198,220 .. •• 1,414,300
Debenture exes., etc., w/off, £18,854 1,395,446
1955. .376,968 25 p.c. =232,108 144,860 1,540,306
The reserves of subsidiaries and share
premiums interlined in the table were
mainly on account of the Howard pur-
chase. The £376,968 of profit claimed
included £74,460 on account of conserva-
tive stock-valuation at the previous
balance and £14,400 bounty on tractors.
Excluding these two items the net figure
was £288,108 ; hence the drop in the div.
On capital as it will stand after the bonus
scrip-issue, the £288,108 was 17.5 p.c.
Though a better showing might be
achieved at next balance, a 20 p.c. distri-
bution is by no means certain.
The big movements in balance-sheet
figures mainly reflect the Howard pur-
chase and all-round growth of the rest
of the undertaking, especially on hire-
purchase and engineering sides:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. .. £750,000 £1,047,386
Reserves 924,727 1,540,300
Outside interests .. .. 460 6,811
Debentures .. .. .. 482,580
Mortgage ..' .. .. 15,200
Overdraft .. . . .. 196,058
Creditors, etc. .. .. 249,299 464,047
Staff fund .. .. .. 20,000
Tax provision .. . . 156,025 160,739
Final dividend • .. .. 150,000 157,108
£2,230,611 £4,089,735
Land, buildings .. .. 398,566 639,453
Plant 63,983 345,832
Investments .. .. 169,028 100,000
Stock 765,569 1,935,027
Debtors 367,560 1,050,080
Cash, etc 465,805 2,391
Intangibles .. .. .. 16,952
£2,230,511 £4,089,735
To help meet the net addition of
£1,859,224 in total assets, £482,580 was
raised on debentures (used mostly in the
h.-p. section), £15,200 on mortgage,
£196,058 on overdraft and £214,748 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. About three-fifths of the stock
is in the motor sections and the balance
in the agricultural and general-engineer-
ing division.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
A FTER handling their trustee business,
which calls for highly-specialised
knowledge and experience, at or about
cost, and for a while below cost, the
trustee cos. are now beginning to derive
a little benefit from the belated 1952
amendment to the N. S. Wales Trustee
Companies Act.
Still, the new scale of charges, like
the old one, is static. Apart from returns
from the co.’s own funds, which are also
a protection for clients, net earnings de-
pend upon the relative levels of charges,
costs and the volume of business. The
mischievous factor is inflation, operating
through costs. Hence no more than
justice would be done if the Act were
again amended by providing for a sliding-
scale of charges based upon officially-
ascertained costs. Each trust portfolio
has to be kept under constant review by
a staff of experts, whose duty is to
provide maximum income and at the
same time protect the capital involved,
and who must at all times be ready with
advice and sympathy on problems affect-
ing the financial well-being of bene-
ficiaries.
The Permanent’s profits, which fell
from an average of £12,123 for the five
years to 1940 to £11,849 and £11,178 for
the two succeeding quinquenniums,
dropped to £6Bll for the three years to
September 30, 1953. Since then there
has been a welcome improvement in the


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW'
SOUTH WALES— In Divoecb.
TO WILFORD THORVALD JENSEN for-
merly of 19 High Street Cessnock. —
TAKE NOTICE that LORNA ENID
JENSEN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 117 of 1955 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish, to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court House
King Street Sydney by the 7th day of Feb-
ruary 1956 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from R. S. WOOD-
GATE, Solicitor, 44 King Street, New-
castle.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO STANLEY JAMES VAUGHAN late
of Bonalbo.—TAKE NOTICE that MAVIS
ETHEL VAUGHAN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4196 of 1955 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
if you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry King
Street Sydney by 9th February 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. TRENCH,
WALTERS & COMPANY, Solicitors, 137
Molesworth Street, Li sm o r e. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting: Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
"THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES.ON
APPLICATION
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
''National" Rotary Dupli-
cator wi 1 i reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
STDNET
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
• Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Aost.)
Missing Beneficiary
ANYONE knowing the present where-
abouts of EMILY ATKINS, ne'e HARRIS,
widow of WILLIAM HENRY ATKINS,
who died at Isisford Hospital, Aramac,
Queensland, on 14th August, 1911, or
any of her relatives or descendants,
kindly communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Wellington, New
Zealand ?
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
MRS. MARGARET SWINBOURNE, for-
merly of 917 Punt Road, South Yarra
(Victoria), and 3 Fairlie Court, South
Yarra (Victoria), and now believed to be
residing in Sydney, is requested to com-
municate with ANXIOUS, C/o ARM-
STRONG’S AGENCY, 143 Queen Street,
Melbourne ?
WILL any person knowing the present
whereabouts of JAMES GRAHAM HILL
(JIM HILL), formerly of Maryborough,
Victoria, and now believed to be in the
Gippsland district, Victoria, please com-
municate with M. M. GORMAN, Solicitor,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne? Tel.
MU 4564.
>nv
s
m
•jjw
.Vi;
Mj
rf.r
The IDEAL GIFT
lor All occasions
*“SIRIUS” 7 x 50 BINOCULARS
For holiday rambling and sporting evfcnts,
a pair of good binoculars is indeed a
valuable aid to complete enjoyment.
“Sirius” 7 x 50 binoculars, with coated lens
and centre focusing, leave nothing to be
desired in optical quality, attractive appear-
ance and sturdy, precision construction.
*Esdaile’s own trade name
OTHER "SIRIUS" MODELS
6x15 £lO 0 0
8x25 £l7 15 0
Bx3o £2l 15 0
10x50 £27 10 0
Zeiss, Ross & Hensoldt binoculars are also available.
Prices and details on request.
A SPECIAL MAIL ORDER SERVICE to country clients.
We will forward any desired model for trial on
receipt of full purchase price. Should the glass not
be to your full satisfaction, we
immediately refund purchase price, less
postal charges incurred, on return of
binoculars in original condition.
FOR ALL YOUR OPTICAL REQUIREMENTS. SEE
Optometrists & Opticians since 1885.
42 Hunter St., Sydney. BW 8631.
366 Church St., Parramatta. YY 2467.
R. B. DAVIES
INDUSTRIES LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 of New South
Wales on the 13th day of May, 1947)
REGISTERED OFFICE: 450 lllawarra Road, Marrickville, N.S.W.
ISSUE AT PAR (£1)
OF £200,000
REGISTERED
UNSECURED NOTES
1%
CURRENCY . . . SEVEN YEARS
(Subject to earlier redemption after May, 1961.)
NOW OPEN
Prospectus and Application Forms available from:
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITEp
and MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES
Underwriting Brokers:
lAN POTTER & CO.
360 Collins Street 31 Hunter Street
Melbourne Sydney
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
For public information only: This is not a Prospectus or an advertisement of a
Prospectus, and does not constitute an invitation to subscribe for the Notes
mentioned herein.
IPB-18
figures, thanks mainly to the
amended scale-of-charges and
partly to good management:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 12,035 8 p.c. = 8800 3235 82,662
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. 80,662
To renovations, etc., £lOOO .. 79,662
1951.. 6,534 6 p.c. = 6600 79,596
From inner reserves, £3169 .. 82,755
1952.. 5,240 6 p.c. = 5500 82,495
To inner reserves, £9OOO .. 73,495
1953.. 8,659 7p.c. = 7700 959 74,454
Cost renovations, £2402 . . 72,052
1954.. 13.625.9 p.c. = 9900 3725 75,777
1955.. 15.859.9 „ ~9900 5959 81,736
Last term’s £15,859 (up £2234)
of profit was 14.4 p.c. on the
£llO,OOO of paid capital, com-
pared, with 12.4, 7.8, 4.7, 5.6
and 10.7 p.c. back to 1950. The
distribution, lifted from 7 p.c.
to 9 p.c. in 1954, was main-
tained at the higher rate. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s
profit was 8.3 p.c.
The value of estates wound-up
during the year exceeded the
value of new business by
£381,134. Agency and trust
transaction amounted to
£2,150,000:
Exes. p.c.
Trust Gross of Gross
Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings
£ £ £
’61..29.696,952 129,848 122,814 94.9
’52..30,835,358 146,945 141,705 96.4
’53..31,408,643 151,666 142,997 94.2
’54..30,917,934 152,278 138,653 91.1
’56..30,536,800 156,020 140,161 89.8
The most pleasing feature there
is the reduction of £6 12s. p.c.
in the expense-rate since 1952,
of which 265. p.c. was in respect
of the last term. It is a fine
tribute to the care the manage-
ment has exercised over con-
trollable outgoings.
The chairman has drawn
attention to the harsh nature of
the legislation in N. S. Wales
which taxes the “limited
interest” of a life-tenant in an
estate. Where a man leaves his
estate to his children, subject to
a life-interest to his widow, the
estate, of course, pays tax when
the man dies, and, under recent
legislation, duty is paid again
when the widow dies, unless her
death occurs within five years
of that of her husband. In
some cases “this additional duty
can be avoided by transferring
estate assets to those States that
enjoy more enlightened legisla-
tion.” The Federal Capital
Territory, where the co. has a
branch, is such a State. An
interested testator should con-
sult his trustee and his solicitor
on this matter. Indeed, the
altered conditions of today in
many other respects also call for
revision of any but recently-
made wills.
At September 30 last the co.’s
own funds, together with £38,402
coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
were represented by freehold,
etc., £55,178, investments
£124,278, debtors and cash
£30,680 and shares in the Can-
berra subsidiary £20,000 (up
£15,000).
With one eye on creeping
inflation, the market prices the
co.’s £5 shares paid to 11s. each
—7ss.»of the remaining 89s. is
a reserve liability payable only
if needed in the event of
liquidation—at 14s. 3d. (15s. a
year ago) to return 6.9 p.c. on a
9 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 19s. 2d., a conservative
figure.
Emperor Mines, Ltd.
This is the holding co. through
which the public is interested in
the Emperor Gold Mining Co.,
Ltd., Tavua field (Fiji). Last
term the operating co. treated
less but slightly richer ore for
more gold and silver:
Year , Gold
to Treated Head Re- Silver
June Ore, Value, covered, Recov’d,
30, Tons. Dwt. Fine Oz. Fine Oz.
1958.. 7.97 67,221 14,677
1954.. 169.572 8.15 60,507 16,465
1955.. 8.89 63,008 20,343
But there was a sharp rise of
6s. lid. per ton in operating
costs (745. 11.9 d.), following the
change from open-cut to more
costly underground mining, and
net earnings were £25,246 lighter
at £69,074, equal to 8.6 d. per
Is. share.
The holding co., however,
received £98,433 in dividends,
and continued to pay Is. per
share (100 p.c.). And another
Is. per share has been sent out
since the close of accounts.
When the books closed the
operating co. held current
assets totalling £588,318, of
which £257,101 represented
stores. Current liabilities were
£50,462.
Ore reserves at June 30 last
were put at 934,200 tons, of
which 694,700 tons, averaging
B.4dwt., were measured and
239,500 tons, averaging 7.5dwt.,
indicated, with prospects of more
better-than-average-grade stuff
being developed at the lower
levels. Work on the adjoining
jointly-owned prospecting lease
has not yet disclosed anything
worth whooping about; a
number of other areas have been
investigated, but none has
proved large or rich enough to
warrant large-scale mining
operations.
The market prices the f.-p. Is.
shares at 11s. 6d. (17s. a year
ago), thus valuing the under-
taking at £1,100,550.
Kampong Lanjut Tin
Shareholders look like getting
into the picture again within the
next year or so, thanks to
acquisition of another new area
at Selayang, near Kuala Lumpur
(Malaya).
The Wardieburn area —it still
contains over 30-million c.yl of
0.61 b. dirt —on which the recon-
structed No. 1 dredge began
work in November, 1950, has
proved a disappointment.
Dividends of 10.5 p.c. and 7 p.c.
were paid for the 1952 and 1953
terms, but nothing since.
Heavy clay and a shallow
limestone bottom were met with,
and are expected to continue
throughout the rest of the
property. Recoveries were
affected to such an extent that
operations became unprofitable,
and the dredge was docked in
November, 1953, pending in-
stallation of clay-saving equip-
ment, “orders for which are
being placed.” Meanwhile,
portion of the ore-saving equip-
ment has been transferred to
No. 2 dredge (Selayang) in
order to hasten its assembly. So
it is uncertain at the moment
when No. 1 is likely to set in
again. When it does recoveries
will be watched with interest.
During the 1954 term mining-
leases covering 247 acres at
Selayang were bought from the
Jinjang Syndicate (a wholly-
owned offshoot of Anglo-
Oriental) for 100,000 f.-p. £1
shares, yet to be issued —paid
capital will be thus lifted to
£400,000. Together with an
adjoining area, already held,
this will give the co. 335 acres,
estimated to contain 38,000,000
c.y., averaging 0.4 kali (0.531 b.).
No. 2 dredge, which had been
dismantled and stored after the
war, is now being reassembled
on the new property. The
pontoon has been floated, the
superstructure is in course of
erection, and the dredge is
expected to make a trial run
early in 1956.
To help meet the cost of the
work (amount not stated), a
guaranteed loan of £116,700 has
been arranged, of which £46,667
had been received and £31,727
spent at March 31 last. In
addition, the co. then had
£250,017 in cash, etc., to meet
current liabilities of £18,046.
Stores, etc., figured at £107,781.
Last term’s £20,079 of profit
came from tributors working the
old Malim Nawar area. Subject
to unforeseen difficulties the
Jinjang area looks like yielding
good profits with tin (metallic)
around £S7OO per ton, London.
And there is the possibility of
the Wardieburn area becoming
profitable again.
The market prices the f.-p. £1
shares, which had dropped to a
low of 18s. during 1954, at 245.,
thus valuing the undertaking at
£480,000. .


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The bus-and-tram strike coincided
with a nice bright sunny day, fortunately,
and nearly all the citizens who came into
the city were proportionately cheerful
and rather smug about having succeeded
in getting there. Motorists, who took a
delight in parking on tram-stops and
other normally-forbidden areas, thought
the Transport Department should change
its slogan “Go by bus, no parking fuss,”
to “No bus—no fuss.”
# # #
However seriously we may take the
fashions of our own day, there is noth-
ing more certain to produce gales of
merriment than a parade of the clothes
our mothers and grandmothers wore.
The Sydney University Women’s Union
proved this at its annual party at Man-
ning House last Thursday: this was for
graduates who are life-members. Fifteen
members dressed-up in garments lent by
members and friends, and Miss Marion
Dallison compered a parade in a witty,
lighthearted manner. There were bustled
dresses such as might have been worn
by the first women-students at the Uni-
versity (though perhaps rather more
elaborate than those pioneers might have
chosen), fashions from the ’twenties, and
a couple of bathing-belles of the early
20th century in stripes and sailor-suits
who nearly brought down the house.
Miss Mollie Burns, president of the
Union, welcomed about 150 guests to the
party, at which it may truthfully be said
“a good time was had by all.’
☆ ☆ ☆
A feature of the week was the traffic-
stopping crowds around the two music-
shops showing television-sets in action.
TV will be here definitely by next August,
say the experts, who also estimate that a
quarter of a million people will want
them, and say that already orders are
flowing in for sets at 189 guineas
(£49 9s. down and the rest over three
years) and TV-plus-radiograms at 298
guineas. It will cost between £6 and £l4
to install the sets, and the TV-licence will
probably cost about £5, so perhaps it
would be* as well to start saving now.
kb kb kb
Meanwhile a knowledgeable word on
TV comes from Miss Kay Kinane, in
charge of the A.B.C.’s education side
and just back from sizing-up things in
the U.S. There, she says, parents are
happy because TV keeps the children
quiet. The A.B.C. envisages more pro-
fitable viewing, such as drawing and
handicrafts, for the small-fry, as well as
music with percussion parts they can play.
In the U.S., says Miss Kinane, the
teacher-shortage has led to the teaching
of English literature, French and maths,
by TV, though she considers this too
impersonal. However, TV science-
demonstrations are fine, as each pupil is
at the teacher’s elbow.
kb v kb
The pleasant cocktail-party given by
the High Commissioner for Pakistan,
Mr. Habibur Rahman, and the Begum
Rahman at their Woollahra home during
the week was really a farewell-party, as
the whole family will leave Australia on
December 2 for Dacca, East Pakistan,
where Mr. Rahman will await his new
appointment. Among a large assembly
of Sydney’s leading citizens it was inter-
esting to see again Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Jenkyn (just back from abroad), Pro-
fessor and Mrs, S. H. Roberts (looking
forward to their Christmas cruise to
Ceylon with daughter Meredith), and to
meet Mrs. James Michener, who, with
her author-husband, is visiting Sydney
at present.
☆ ☆ ☆
Most eye-catching fashion at the Boro-
vansky Ballet’s change-of-programme
was the tartan mess-jacket worn by Mr.
Peter Ruddick, a visitor from Melbourne ;
he and Mrs. Ruddick were guests of Mr.
and Mrs. Frank Tait. Both Mrs. Tait
and her niece Mrs. Angus McPherson
wore Italian-model dresses, Mrs. Tait’s
in bronze and Mrs. McPherson’s in black
straw-lace. Completing the party were
Mr. Angus McPherson and Mr. and
Mrs. George Baldick. Mrs. Carl Wilson’s
violet stole of Indian gauze patterned with'
gold and worn over a violet nylon dress
was attractive, and Mrs. Bruce McLeod’s
flame-colored organza dress lightened
up a foyer somewhat subdued by the
prevalence of rain-coats.
V # V
Saturday’s rain was particularly un-
welcome in this season of fetes and bar-
becues, many of which were washed in-
doors and others postponed. The chief
consolation in many cases was that it
rained heavily enough for the insurance
to be collected, and also in these days
of the “deep-freeze” there is not the same
waste of food that there used to be in
the past. By the way, the Moonlight
Fantasy, to have been held at the home
of Mr. and Mrs. Sam Lands at Point
Piper in aid of the Smith Family, has
been postponed till next Friday.
Annette Macarthur Onslow, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Ted Macarthur Onslow,
of Macquarie Park, Camden, has become
a puppeteer for the pre-Christmas period
and is working with Norman Hethering-
ton (“Heth” of The Bulletin) on the
charming Christmas story being shown
daily at Anthony Horderns’. Annette’s
interest in puppets is an offshoot of her
studies in art at East Sydney Technical
College, where she is in her fourth year,
and where she gained experience in the
college’s puppet-production of “Faust”
two years ago. Although she has to cope
with her end-of-the-year work at college
(which includes completing over a dozen
pieces for the exhibition ) she finds the
marionette work fascinating and helps not
only in manipulating the puppets but
also provides the voice of “Nicky,” the
little-boy hero of the story. Photo by
John Fullerton.
Final function of the year for the Bank
of New South Wales Women’s Auxiliary
was an American Tea held at St. Michael’s
Hall on Friday, when the guest-speaker
was Mr. J. G. McCartney, recently back
from Malaya, where he spent three years
as an interior-decorator. Organising the
function was Mrs. H. C. C. Marshall, the
auxiliary’s president, assisted by Mrs. L.
A. Cameron and Mrs. W. M. Morris.
The auxiliary, which works for the Royal
Blind Society, will present its cheque, the
result of the year’s work, on December 7.
# #
Entries are still coming in for the
Y.W.C.A.’s International Festival of
Christmas exhibition of stained-glass
windows, and there is some space avail-
able for church- or welfare-groups to be
represented. The windows, made of
cellophane, celluloid, cardboard, tape,
etc., must stand in frame 4ft. Bin. by
2ft. Bin., and will be illuminated in the
“Y” Assembly Room from December 5
to December 10.
☆ ☆ ☆
An American Water Follies show is to
open at the White City on December 30,
when a huge portable diving-tank, swim-
ming-pool and stage will be set up on
the centre court, so that a good view will
be possible from 8000 seats. The pro-
ceeds of the gala-opening night have
been donated by the promoters, Aztec
Services, to the Eastern Suburbs Home
for Subnormal Children. The Woollahra
Ladies’ Auxiliary, under the guidance of
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, is aiming to
make this a “night of nights.”
MELBOURNE
Already the Christmas spirit is appar-
ent —in the shops, at any rate. The
facade of one of the largest is covered
with a poster wishing all a Merry
Christmas; the windows are full of tempt-
ing gifts, and, fortunately, the children
are still at school. A great help to those
who want to shop early.
☆ ☆ ☆
Minister for External Affairs R. G.
Casey was guest-speaker at the Thanks-
giving Day luncheon in the Royale Ball-
room organised by the Australian-
American Association. The president,
Sir John Latham, proposed the loyal
toasts.
Present were Lady Latham, Mrs. R. G.
Casey (who is the president of the
women’s group of the association), the
Premier and Mrs. Bolte, Sir Edmund
and Lady Herring, the Lord Mayor (Cr.
F. Selleck) and Mrs. Selleck, U.S.
Consul-General Gerald Warner, the
Wesley Inces, Lady Steele, Mrs. John
Mack (Macedon), Mrs. Vernon Jones
and Peggy Tellick.
❖ * ❖
The University’s Union House was the
setting for the pleasant end-of-the-year
At Home given by the Chancellor (Mr.
Justice Dean) and Mrs. Dean. The
hostess, wearing a slim black suit and
small back-veiled corn-gold straw hat,
was assisted by her daughters, Mrs. I. M.
Tulloch and Mrs. M. G. Whiteside.
Former Chancellor Sir Charles Lowe was
with Lady Lowe ; members of the Uni-
versity staff included Professor and Mrs.
Boyce Gibson, Professor Chisholm, Miss
Myra Roper and Mrs. Kathleen Fitz-
patrick. With Vice-Chancellor Pro-
fessor G. W, Paton was Mrs. Paton.
Other guests were Judge and Mrs.
Foster, Judge Barry, Solicitor-General H.
Winnecke and Mrs. Winnecke, Sir Albert
and Lady Coates, Lieut.-General Sir
Sydney Rowell and Lady Rowell, and
Lieut.-General Garratt and Mrs. Garratt.
Adelaide-born Judith Anderson left
this country as a young girl, after playing
with actor-manager Julius Knight and in
American comedies for the Firm. She
went to the U.S.A., where she made her
name as one of the world’s foremost
tragediennes; her Lady Macbeth has
been voted one of the finest ever seen.
She will play the title-role in “Medea,”
which opens at the Comedy Theatre on
December 20.
The Royale Ballroom was magnifi-
cently decorated for the St. Catherine’s
dinner-dance, proceeds of which went to
the school’s Assembly Hall Appeal. In
the official party were the Head Mistress
(Miss M. Davis), Dr. and Mrs. James
Buchanan, Mr. and Mrs. G. J. Coles,
Mr. and Mrs. Jim Campbell, and Mr.
and Mrs. Ross Shelmerdine. Mrs. James
Buchanan wore a beautifully-draped,
strapless gown of pale orchid-pink silk-
taffeta, which had a band of mink on
the bodice. Mrs. Geoffrey Brewer, who
was one of the ticket-secretaries, chose
a gown of white guipure-lace and silk-
taffeta ; the taffeta fashioned part of
the strapless bodice and was crossed at
the waist and then fell into side-floating
panels.
☆ ☆ ☆
The new show at the Tivoli, “Laugh
Around the Clock,” lives up to its name,
for it is gay, sparkling and glowing with,
color. In the opening scene the show-
girls wear pale-mauve jewelled bikini-
suits, topped with massive ostrich-feather
headdresses, and back-movement is
achieved by peacock-tails of tulle and
feathers. English star Daphne Barker,
making her first appearance, wore an
ankle-length strapless frock, with the full
skirt of pink tulle cut into layers of
petals and allied to a sparkling diamente
top. Singer June Salter was also beauti-
fully dressed. In one scene she wears
a sheath of glittering gold lamd under a
trailing coat of scarlet taffeta.
In the first-night audience were Mrs.
George Laurens, who wore a sheath-
frock of black silk-waffle-taffeta under a
cape-stole of blue-fox fur ; Mrs. H. Silk,
in mist-blue fail'e jacket-suit and cap of
mother-of-pearl flowers ; Mrs. Royden
Honeyman, whose emerald-green satin
frock was worn with a black coat; Mrs.
George Griffith, her choice a full-skirted
ballerina frock of black taffeta; Mrs.
Gordon Cooper, in black-spotted gold
taffeta; Mrs. Lflu Green, whose theatre-
coat was of black quilted-satin ; Mrs. S.
Aarons, who wore a black guipure-lace
frock; Mrs. John Carrodus, whose black
frock was finely patterned in blue-and-
gold; and Mrs. Norman Lynch, who
teamed a white guipure-lace blouse and
bouffant black skirt.
☆ ☆ ☆
East Meets West was the theme for
the stage-decorations at the St. Kilda
Town Hall when the International Club
held its annual ball. Bright posters and
the flags of 40 national groups made a
colorful display. The 900 guests were
Welcomed by Mrs. Herbert Brookes, the
club’s president. Included in the official-
party was Australia’s millionth migrant,
Mrs. Dennis Porritt, and her husband;
she received a presentation of an electric-
kettle. Many groups performed their
national dance, among them the
Indonesians, whose graceful umbrella-
dance was arranged by Mrs. D. Slain,
wife of the Indonesian Trade Commis-
sioner. Madajne Le Bas de Plumetot,
wife of the French Consul, wore a gown
of garnet-red self-patterned taffeta.
Noted also were Swiss Consul M. Paul
Emile Cattin and Mrs. Cattin, Austrian
Consul F. Berger and Mrs. Berger, Cr.
and Mrs. Comeadow, .Mrs. Gordon
Robertson and Jean Younger.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the collections seen by visiting
New Zealand buyers was that of Henry
Haskin and Co. Viewed at Ciro’s at a
late-afternoon party, the collection
included suits, cotton frocks, afternoon-
frocks of pure silk, shantung, nylon and
nylon-organza, and evening-gowns, both
short and long, in most of the luxury-
fabrics. A new fabric, mouselline-Chene,
in ice-blue patterned in a black design,
made a pretty frock which had a scoop-
neckline and a long-torso bodice from
which fell a skirt of full gathers. White
daisies were used to pattern a flame-
organza ballerina-frock, which had a
deep V back and front of the bodice of
white guipure-lace. A short party-frock
of white organza was embossed with
bright pink roses and green leaves. To
the bodice was attached a fichu, but for
more formal occasions this could be
removed. A novel idea was seen in a
frock of brilliant red organza. Bands of
fine diagonal pleating were outlined in
tiny gold beads on the full, short skirt.
Water-repellent duchesse de luxe satin
was one of the new fabrics shown;
another was Swiss-embroidered taffeta.
☆ ☆ ☆
Many friends were entertained by Mrs.
George Laurens at a buffet-luncheon
party given at her Toorak home. Bowls
of lovely flowers decorated the reception-
and dining-rooms and the hostess wore
a smart frock and matching jacket of
faille patterned in cinnamon, brown and
white. She was assisted by her daughter
Diana, who wore a striking full-skirted
frock of tangerine cotton ; narrow bands
of natural straw trimmed the skirt.
Among the guests were Mrs. E. M.
Parton, whose white silk frock was
patterned in swirls of grey and black and
topped with a tiny white ostrich-feather
cap; Mrs. Kitty Davidson, who con-
trasted her garnet-red satin frock with a
tiny hat of pink roses ; Mrs. Norman
Lynch, wearing a grey satin-finished
Italian-cotton frock under a full-length
coat of pervenche-blue velvet; Mrs.
Royden Honeyman, whose frock was
patterned in black and red and worn
with a black picture-hat. ' Mrs. W.
Moore’s large turquoise-blue straw-hat
was worn with a silk frock patterned in
grey and black; Mrs. Alfred Griffiths
chose an ensemble of ice-blue linen ; Mrs.
M. Ress, whose lightweight black-wool
frock had a draped skirt and black
Persian-lamb cuffs, wore with it a gold-
embroidered black-velvet cap ; and Miss
Alice Wyatt chose a black ensemble.


L.D.D.
BRIARS -
smoke cool and sweet
right from the start
L.D.D. pipes are London
made, they are richly
coloured to show the natural
grain. Light in weight, they
are made from finest old
briar. See the full range of
L.D.D. pipes and enquire
about membership in the
World Fellowship of Pipe-
smokers— price, 29/6.
Sold by all Leading Tobacconists
Australian Distributors
Box 50 2, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JACK WYLLIE late of 22 Napoleon
Street Sans Souci. —TAKE NOTICE that
VIOLET WYLLIE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3873 of 1956 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under S. 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899-1954 If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance on
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street. Sydney by the 26th January 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from F. E. FISCHER, Solicitor,
183 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGIIAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD VERNON WILES formerly
of 10 Bellevue Street Surry Hills New
South Wales and at one time of Adelaide
South Australia—TAKE NOTICE that
IRIS GRACE WILES has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 238 of 1954 on the
ground that during one year previously
ypu repeatedly assaulted and cruelly beat
her If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in. tfie Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
.Sydney by 17th January 1956 and obtain
a’ copy of the Petition without charge
from BRIERLEY, HODGE & CO., Soli-
citors, of 52 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Leadership Demands Constant Achievement
World’s Finest Airliner is Serving
m
n
LJ
LOCKHEED
u/ieb
The latest in a line of great Lockheed transports,
the 1049 version of the Super Constellation is serving Australia.
Enjoy the quiet comfort, speed and luxury of the largest, roomiest airliner in the world.
20 great world airlines now fly Super Constellations
over connecting routes which cross every ocean and span every Continent.
Super Constellations are the only airliners
on which you can fly completely around the world.
For your future enjoyment, watch for the Super Constellation 1649 A
with its revolutionary high-speed, long-range wing. It will go into service as a companion
to the 1049 to carry further Lockheed’s tradition of leadership.
LOCKHEED Aircraft Corporation • Burbank • California • U.S.A.
Qantas Empire Airways and KLM
afford Super Constellation service to 5 Continents from Australia
trans-Canada Air Lines
Varig
Iberia
4
Air France
a
Dantas
Air-lndia International
Northwest Orient Airlines
Pakistan International
Flying Tiger Lma
Slick Airways
Seated & Western
LAV Deutsche Lufthansa Eastern Air Lines
m
Thai Airways Avianca TWA
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Borovansky Ballet
The second Borovansky pro-
gramme at Sydney Empire got
away to a good start with a
“Swan Lake” danced with beauti-
ful serenity, precision and
gracefulness by Peggy Sager,
whose ability to finish each
movement with ease
makes her Queen of the Swans
a delight to watch. Hers was a
cool rather than passionate
acceptance of the Prince, in
which role Vassilie Trunoff was
supple and sure.
It says something for Paul
Grinwis’s ability as a choreo-
grapher that he made so much
of Mallarme’s poem in Debussy’s
“Afternoon of a Faun.” Retain-
ing Nijinsky’s original setting,
Grinwis mixed staccato move-
ment with extreme languor, and
both his choreography and
dancing captured the spirit of
longing and frustration.
Melpomene bounced aggres-
sively on to the boards in Tschai-
kowsky’s “Francesca da Rimini,”
to the choreography of David
Lichine, the tale replete with the
color of Borgian Italy. The
ugly Duke Malatesta of Rimini
uses his handsome brother to
woo for him the fair Francesca.
He succeeds only too well by
proxy, and the loveless marriage
ends when the jealous Malatesta
puts his brother to the sword, on
the point of which the lady then
promptly immolates herself.
The choreographic patterns
give a moto perpetuo effect, with
swirling waves of dwarfs, cour-
tiers, Francesca’s attendants,
townspeople and musicians in
swift contention. Passion is
given a full head of steam, and
Lichine cleverly pinpoints the
high moment of drama when a
great door swings open to reveal
the vengeful Duke, sword in
hand, confronting the guilty
lovers. Jocelyn Vollmar is a
graceful and dignified Francesca,
Royes Fernandez was Paolo, and
Arvid Fibigs a savage Duke.
Frank Salter’s portrayal of
Malatesta’s spy is a keen piece
of character work. William Con-
stable’s decor and costumes are
altogether admirable.
Kathleen Gorham swept with
impish sprightliness through the
Street Dancer’s rhythmical
measures in the lighthearted
diversions of Strauss’s “Le Beau
Danube.” Jill Bathurst and Eve
King lent strong support respec-
tively as the First Hand and the
Daughter, while Paul Grinwis’s
long legs served the needs of the
Hussar with distinction. Sub-
sidiary characters, tiptop.
Alarming Thoughts
At the first Australian perform-
ance of Prokofieff’s cheerful 7th
Symphony at Sydney Town Hall
even the programme annotation
was depressed. The symphony
was written at the end of his
life, after he had been attacked
by the Soviet for being abstruse.
The first movement is openly in
love with Tschaikowsky; the
whole is lousy with Russian
idiom; the scherzo is the open-
ing to an orchestral circus which
exploits the whole orchestral
kitchen except the sink, and this
is thrown in in the last move-
ment for good measure; it is
all perfectly clear, and good fun.
Yet even the lover of clarity
sorrowed; his sophisticated, Un-
understandable Parisian fox had
turned to run with the popular
Russian hounds. What do we
want? What will satisfy us?
Nothing that should pleass,
pleases. Gordon Watson and
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
gave a performance of the 2nd
Pianoforte Concerto by Liszt so
precise and so well-balanced as
to leave the listener thinking
only of the beauty of Liszt’s
music: what does this leave one
to say about Mr. Watson, except
that the audience called him
back many times? And in the
“Symphonie Fantastique” by
Berlioz the orchestra was as
clear as if Berlioz were explain-
ing his intentions; and there
were the graces of style: an
orchestral tutti that ended like a
whipcrack ; a concluding swell
and diminuendo as even as if it
were one piano-accordion open-
ing and closing; and a wood-
wind solo to introduce the
“Witches’ Sabbath” so in-
humanly obscene that one could
hardly credit it to an instrument
at all—and the Sydney listener
is an expert on this subject.
Sir Bernard Heinze seemed
anxious to concentrate on the
orchestra, and, the \vorld being
what it is, Sydney concert-goers
might well make the most of
what they are getting. It would
be a pity if Sydney music
became so perfect as to bore
everyone to death.
<s* &
More Concertos
The concerto festival in Bris-
bane ended with two concerts
markedly different in quality.
The festival programmes as a
whole kept well away from the
mightier concertos of the reper-
toire —which are played often
enough in the ordinary orches-
tral season, anyway —but the
works presented as a change
from the usual concerto-fare
were themselves chosen rather
curiously.
First there was an attempt to
emphasise the brilliance of the
19th - century, piano - concerto.
Yankoff was heard in Liszt’s
First Piano Concerto, and,
later, Gordon Watson played the
second Liszt concerto, as well as
the elegant Concert Study in F
Minor by Weber. These two
linked concerts were interesting
for their splendid pianism, and
it was good to hear the two
Liszt concertos played with
such authority and fire by these
two young players.
The final concert was
apparently drawn-up on the
assumption that, as the earlier
programmes were top-heavy
with piano works, a change of
sound was needed, so ’cello-,
flute- and organ-concertos were
brought forth. Julie van der
Klei played Saint-Saens’s First
Cello Concerto, pleasant music
belonging to a gentle tradition.
Its first movement sounds a
little scrawny in parts, having
little music to show off the more
lovable qualities of the ’cello.
Thereafter things warm-up and
the soloist has more opportunity
to show what can be done with
the richer sonorities of the
instrument.
After this a flute-concerto by
Koehler was given careful atten-
tion by James Carson, but
merely demonstrated the melan-
choly lack of good solo-music
for flute. An organ-concerto by
an Italian composer named
Bossi made a fine sound (one
wonders if the organ can do
otherwise), but continued to
sound monotonously grandiose
for longer than patience could
stand.
It is hard to see why good
soloists should be wasted on
such music. In a festival like
this it seems odd that no modern
concertos should be played. The
programme - notes for the
Gordon Watson concert men-
tioned his reputation overseas as
an expert in contemporary
music, especially Bartdk, who
has rarely appeared on Brisbane
programmes, although .he is
responsible for two or three of
the best modern concertos.
In spite of some bright
moments, this festival merely
moved from one rut to another.
It dodged the standard, over-
played concertos of the early
part of the season, but failed to
be either original or stimulating
in its choice of fresh pieces. To
justify its title a concerto festi-
val must surely do more than
this one did to represent what
is, after all, still a lively form
of musical expression.
D. J. M.
Artbursts
Art for Christmas
A lively little “Christmas
Selection 1” at Sydney Macquarie
Galleries includes an exception-
ally interesting study of a she-
urchin of the outback by Russell
Drysdale, not as sensitive in paint
as a Tom Roberts, curiously flat
and drab, and yet full of feeling
and with something haunting
about it. Doubtless it is a sketch
for a larger composition. It is
also pleasant to see a departure
into firmer, fresher and brighter
color by George Lawrence; and
John Passmore brings dramatic-
ally to life what looks like a
familiar, placid comer of Coogee
with his “Throwing Fish-heads
to Hungry Tern” —it is time the
terns had a turn.
♦> ❖ *
Injuns, Etc.
An unusual exhibition at the
N. S. Wales National Gallery is
“Men of One Mind,” a set of
photographs by Cyrus T. Brady
of aboriginal tree-carvings,
Pueblo Indian pottery and
classical Greek architecture. It
can, of course, be used to over-
exalt the primitive —one has not
yet heard of an aboriginal
Euripides or a Pueblo Praxiteles
—but it is also useful to
demonstrate how naturally and
spontaneously the basic elements
of art arise wherever man is
moved to express himself.
»
Af Hunter’s Hill
Six small Lance Solomons up
to his finest quality are the high-
lights of a Christmas show of
paintings at 15 guineas and under
at Jane Glad’s gallery, 10
Mount-st., Hunter’s Hill, Syd-
ney. Howard Ashton is also well
represented and there are some
excellent small watercolors by a
variety of artists.


a passenger for Joe
By
LIONEL KENNEDY
“7" HREE times a week, for
/ upwards of thirty years,
V Joe Ganney had carried
H.M. mails, district rail-
head to eastern rural environs.
When other employment was
slack, various rivals had con-
tested his tenders. Always in
vain. Joe, it seemed, had the
knack of getting the Govern-
ment’s blessing.
Disgruntled opponents had
darker explanations— not much
heeded by their confidants; for
indeed it was hqrd to fit the
somewhat unprepossessing Joe,
uneloquent, untutored, dun-
gareed, bristle-cheeked, and
bearing about him continual
r eminders of his part-time pig-
gery, into the role of “string-
puller” or “member’s favorite.”
It is true he may have had an
art for ferreting out details of
opposing tenders: “never know
where the long-eared coot might
be creepin’ about.”
Certainly there was no deny-
ing him a sharp native canniness.
Whatever perquisites his profes-
sion afforded he was swift to
seize on. A harassed far-from-
town housewife, lacking an
essential loaf, would ring the
baker just in time to catch Joe,
and the loaf would cost her
nearly double. A frantic farmer,
held up with a stripped header-
gear ; another, run out of bags.
. . . more grist for Joe’s watch-
ful mill.
In the long course of his
office, Joe had run through an
impressive miscellany of vehicles.
The first rigid old sulky, with
its miserable equine associate,
had had a series of like replace-
ments, each one a little grander
than its predecessor. Hie ad-
vance of the machine-age, to-
gether with Joe’s slowly grow-
ing prosperity, elevated him to
motoring status, and made him
a shrewd student of the junk-
yards. Three rust-crusted hulks
he successively salvaged there-
from, and tinkered by some in-
born art into rattling re-service.
His latest in conveyances was
virtually in luxury class, for it
was a genuine “second-hand”—
an Essex of unguessable years,
but capable of few mechanical
mutinies that Joe could not
counter.
/"AN a late-January morning the
Essex stood baking its sun-
blistered sides at the rear of the
railway-station; her Majesty’s
mailman was waiting for the
train from Sydney to steam in.
Joe had only half an eye for
the mailbags, which, on their
arrival, he must take to the post-
office for sorting. There was a
chance, this morning, of a very
rare gleaning grist-extra-
ordinary. Bangalong, end point
of Joe’s run, had got itself a
a school at last, and its first
teacher was expected on the
train.
Joe had plotted deeply to get
him for a passenger. A business
of hazards, for three proud
Bangalong citizens had driven
in to meet and take him out to
his post. Mr. Sep. Prior, presi-
dent of the brand-new Banga-
long P. and C., was even now—
and had been for some time—
pre-celebrating the arrival in
the King’s Head, assisted by the
two welcome-committee gentle-
men who had accompanied him.
Joe felt that the committee might
best perform its welcoming func-
tion at a later date, on a grander
scale, in Bangalong itself. Live
freight for his mail-car was a
rarity, and a perk of unpredict-
able proportions, especially when
Government-consigned.
As the train ground to a halt,
Joe kept a nervous eye on the
street, fearful lest the teacher’s
rightful hosts emerge to their
duty. An inopportune blast of
1 the driver’s whistle might inform
them that the train wasn’t late,
after all—a rumor of tardiness
which Joe himself had been
at some pains to spread unobtru-
sively about the town.
He was relieved to spy his
intended prey in the act of
alighting; a young man, very
new college-minted, very dazed
from all-night travelling, very
uncertain in a very new land.
Joe picked up the mail-bags
and sauntered up, registering
details and approving chances.
The engine puffed placidly, the
driver lounged reassuringly.
The porter was busy at the
luggage-van. The stationmaster
was chatting with the guard. The
passenger yearned for guidance
from any quarter. Joe had the
field to himself, and the field was
set for a coup.
He believed, on vital occasions,
in a minimum of explanations.
After the briefest of parleys, the
dizzied stranger found himself
shepherded from the platform
and securely imprisoned among
mountains of parcels. In his half-
awake, lost, condition, the
monstrously-shabby car, its wild
medley of cargo, and its
fantastically-uncouth consort all
seemed unreal, incredible to him.
Still struggling hazily to fit the
details into the foggy field of
vague preconceptions, he huddled
gingerly amid a welter of pota-
toes, porridge, and plough-parts.
Joe, leaping to the wheel, shot
a swift glance up the street. Still
empty. And the train moving
out with a pleasant quietness.
Sometimes it didn’t whistle.
Things were going nicely.
They whirled down a side-
street, by-passing the King’s
Head to reach the post-office.
Joe snatched up the mail-bags
and darted inside, first counsel-
ling his captive to “sit tight”
and “take no notice to anybody.”
Who “anybody” might be, the
young teacher, cowering among
the packages, could only guess.
Perhaps it might mean the troops
of damsels, fluttering about the
post-office, openly glad at sight
of a new male face. Their un-
inhibited admiration caused him
to shrink further into his castle
of comestibles, his blushes
masked by the glossy green of
a cabbage.
Joe hurried out again, the
sorting not yet done, and noted
joyfully that the welcome-com-
mittee car lingered still by the
King’s Head. He leaned into his
own car.
“Might as well write you a
receipt for your taxi-fare, if
you’ll fix it up now, Mr.
What did you say the name
was?”
The teacher had had no oppor-
tunity to state his name, but,
thus invited, he volunteered that
it was “Grant.”
“Well, now, what do you
reckon the Gover’ment’d allow
you for this trip, Mr. Grant?”
Mr. Grant was at a loss, and
inquired diffidently what might
be considered a fair thing.
Joe, who had little compunc-
tion about socking the populace,
and none at all about doing
Governments, thought “thirty-
bob would about cover it,” and
pocketed the sum with a
triumphant glance streetwards.
The passenger might now fairly
be said to be in the starter’s
hands, no bets to be refunded.
A SURLY youth slouched
from the post-office and
flung bundles of letters into the
front seat, raking Mr. Grant
with a comprehensive stare
before slouching inside again.
“You’ve certainly cured my Worry-complex , Doc.—I
can’t pay you and couldn’t care less!"
“Ah,” breathed Joe, victory
assured ; “off we go. Be there
in no time, now.”
“No time” took no account of
interminable laborious hill-
climbings ; of deviations from
the highway down innumerable
farm-tracks; of countless stop-
pings at roadside-boxes; of
bumpings and bucketings, at
each one of which an amazingly
übiquitous seat-spring sought out
and pinched and pummelled Mr.
Grant’s bottom wherever he put
it; of gates, gates, and gates. At
all of these last, the exhausted
offsider wearily descended,
oppressed by their unending
recurrence, and confounded by
the infinite variety of their
fastenings.
Mr. Grant’s notions of rural
landscape had been culled from
nature-rambles through National
Park. As they struck ever deeper
into the countryside his spirits
sank lower and lower. He ex-
pected momentarily to be en-
gulfed in an utter wilderness —
nor, if there he found rest, did
such a prospect affright him, he
heavily thought.
A new menace, too, had ap-
peared. The puddles he had idly
noticed in earlier stages were
becoming, at intervals, veritable
swamps, and at times the road
was lost in shallow chains of
water. He stirred from his
lethargy to remark on the fact.
“Yeah,” Joe assented. “Had
a lot o’ rain here lately.”
Mr. Grant, had his perception
been less blunted, might have
noted an odd quality in the mail-
man’s glance. Joe had a secret;
a knowledge that he had har-
bored from the beginning. He
had been silently speculating for
some time on how he might
lead up to the last and greatest
of the young man’s trials, a
hazard now hovering closely
about his unsuspecting head.
Policy had forbidden its revela-
tion at the outset; confession
could not much longer be
delayed, the peril being immin-
ent. Faint twinges of un-
accustomed conscience prickled
Joe as he covertly watched the
suffering schoolteacher, bowed
already by blows from the
unknown.
“Only one more gate,” he
assured him, as the gate-opener
squelched back to his seat, his
shoes deadweights in a smother
of soggy ooze.
Three-hundred yards lay
between them and the last gate.
Joe rammed his short-stemmed
clay with slow calculation, and
squinted at the evil black sod-
denness ahead. It stretched
thinly before them, winking with
menace, hugging a fence on one
side, and paralleling a morass
of cultivation on the other.
“Bad bit cornin’ up,” he com-
mented, reminding himself of
past encounters with this doom-
pregnant ribbon of roadway.
“Gotta watch what you’re doin’,”
he went on, checking tactics suc-
cessful in other duels with the
mire. “Drive too slow, an’
you’ll sink up to the gearbox.
Drive fast, an’ you gotta look
out for skids ; might finish up
in the fence or the cultivation;
smash ’er up properly, or bury
’er to the bonnet.”
Settling firmly in his seat, he
became a picture of rigid vigi-
lance. His pipe clamped tightly
dead-centre, and pointing
straight down the centre of the
track, he rushed from first- into
second-gear, and flung their
destinies to the bog. His hands
were vices on the wheel, and his
eyes unflickering pinpoints of
concentration. Mr. Grant’s
hands clutched the car-door,
and his eyes were windmills,
staring in horror at the flying
barbed strands of the fence.
The car plunged on, its wheels
now spinning, now gripping, so
that at one moment Mr. Grant
felt himself poised to sink in
oblivion, and at the next about
to be rocketed into space.
A crashing cascade of inky
slush plummeted over the wind-
screen. Somewhere in the black-
out Joe’s glittering eye found
a spot of unmuddied glass, and
he glared through it with
redoubled intensity.
His view forward entirely cut
off, Mr. Grant recoiled in a
new access of terror, only to be
catapulted almost instantly to-
wards the windscreen. The con-
test was over, the bog-enemy
vanquished; the Essex had
shaken the mud from its wheels
and slammed to a triumphant
stop on firmer ground by the
gate.
Joe relaxed slowly, flexing his
fingers and grinning smugly.
“Made it again,” he said
laconically to his white-faced
passenger. “Come on, young
feller, we’re nearly there.”
Roused at the prospect of an
end at last, the young feller
straightened up and made his
final descent.
AT the sight before him he
stood still, staring. Thirty
yards beyond the gate the track
dipped steeply, dissolved into
churned-up sand, and dis-
appeared in a raging torrent of
muddy creek-water. On the
other side the road struggled up
from the flood, to scramble
through a narrow gully to the
top of the creek’s precipitous
banks.
As he watched, a huge log
rolled by in the turmoil of
water, flanked by a sportive host
of twigs, sticks, and branches,
all bobbing gaily along, to dance
from view round a farther bend.
The waters roared ; Mr. Grant
stared. He glanced up the near
bank, and down. No sign of
habitation. And the one road
swallowed in a vortex. He
turned and gazed questioningly
at his companion, who, in the
interval, had opened the gate
himself and now stood leaning
nonchalantly against it, his small
eyes amused but alert.
Mr. Grant looked from the
car to the creek, and back to the
car again. After the miracle of
the bog, he would not have been
astonished to perceive in the
Essex evidences of amphibian-
ism. And its driver’s versatilities
were fathomless. But this- —
“I thought you said we were
nearly there,” he began hesit-
antly. “What —where’s Banga-
long?”
Joe gestured casually to the
other bank. This was revelation-
hour; but no sense in making
a fuss about it. “ ’Bout a mile
through the trees over there.
Won’t take you long.”
The significance of the pro-
noun was lost on Mr. Grant in
his present confusion. “But how
do we get there? How can we
get across?”
Joe squinted deprecatingly at
the creek. “She’s a bit higher
than I hoped she might be.
Thought I might just make it.
But there you are, you see. Main
road from town to Bangalong’s
on the other side. But my run
don’t foller the main road.
Reckon you’ll have to swim for
it, after all.” He glanced back
at the gaping young man. “You
can swim, I suppose?”
TV/TR. GRANT had heard that
these country folk were apt
to try to score off city people.
Perhaps this fellow was having
him on.
“Swim? Well, of course, but
—oh, come, you can’t be
serious.”
“Sorry. Never more serious
in me life, young feller. You
see, in cases like this I can’t
finish me run, so I just shoot
the Bangalong stuff across on
the flyin’-fox an’ someone turns
up to pick it up. Should be
someone along any minute now.
Better hop out o’ your clothes
an’ get across.” He surveyed the
farther bank as if expecting a
momentary arrival.
“But I —hang it all, that
creek’s surely not safe.” Mr.
Grant waved an arm feebly at
the rushing waste. “Why, I’d
never make it. It —it’s posi-
tively dangerous.”
Joe chuckled conciliatingly.
“Ah, no danger there. Swum
it meself, plenty o’ times, when
I’ve had to get the fox back to
this bank. Come on, I’ll show
you how to come at it.” He
swung off masterfully, the be-
mused teacher uncertainly at his
heels.
(Continued on page 23}


SvtflON
i
i
&
Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
All types of General Insurance
Directors:
SIR VICTOR WILSON, K.B.E. (Chairman).
JAMES H. STEPHENSON (Deputy Chairman).
S. E. A. STIRLING, STRUAN ROBERTSON,
R. G. GALE.
A. C. MAITLAND, N. E. MANION
Managing Director. Manager.
Branches ana Agencies tn ail Mates.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
Bottlecl miraqe
by John
Horner
THE patch of desert where
Miller had tried to belly-
land the Blenheim was
rougher than it had seemed
to be from the air. But, by the
time that became evident, it was
too late for him to do anything
about it. They were out of
fuel. The port-wing dipped and
tore away in a screeching roar
of driving sand, and Brown, the
navigator, was flung forward
into the nose.
When Miller dragged him
from the wreckage blood was
welling under the edge of his
flying-helmet and three thin,
crooked streams were cutting
through the sand which
powdered his face. He was
dying.
There was a great dent in the
top of his helmet, and Miller,
kneeling in the sand beside him,
saw blood begin to seep through
the damaged leather and grow
h a small, dark berry. He
loosened the chin-strap, and the
streams of blood on Brown’s
face thickened and joined.
Veined, pink bubbles formed
and burst with tiny splashes
where the helmet touched his
forehead.
Miller, seeing them, left the
helmet in place and looked
helplessly about him. There
was blood on his fingers and the
yellow grains were sticking to it.
He dipped his hands in the sand
and rubbed them till they were
clean. Slowly, finger by finger,
as though it were important.
“Ron,” he said aloud. “I’ve
forgotten about Ron.”
He half-rose and looked
round. Ron Martin, the gunner,
was standing a few feet behind
him looking down at Brown.
It took Miller some seconds to
realise that he didn’t have to pull
Martin out of the wreckage, too.
“You all right, Ron?” he
asked. The sound of his voice
startled him. It was the first
sound he’d heard since the awful
stillness had settled around the
crash.
Martin didn’t answer at once,
but took a couple of steps
towards where Brown lay. He
was tall and thickset, and the
squat shadow of his head
seemed to bump against Brown’s
side.
“Frank hurt?” he asked.
“He’s dead.” Martin was
kneeling at Brown’s side again.
He fingered the helmet and then
withdrew his hand helplessly
without moving it.
“He’s dead,” he said again.
“He was lost, wasn’t he?”
Miller didn’t answer.
“He was lost, wasn’t he?”
Martin repeated.
“Frank’s dead, Ron,” Miller
said, as though it were for the
first time.
“Oh, for God’s sake, Dusty!
I know he’s dead. Where does
that leave us? We were lost,
weren’t we? Frank lost us,
didn’t he? Do you know where
we are?”
“No. I . . . No.”
“No, of course you don’t.”
Martin’s voice rose suddenly and
broke. “Damn you, Dusty,
don’t kneel there drooling over
that useless swine. He lost us,
didn’t he? Pull yourself together
and think about us.”
He caught Miller’s arm in
both hands, tugging" at him
jerkily till he rose to his feet.
Miller was a head shorter than
Martin and slight. Martin’s
violence seemed to
recall the other to a full
consciousness of his
presence.
“Steady, Ron,” he
said, taking Martin by
the wrists and gently
pushing his arms back
to his sides. “Steady,
Ron. Sit down in the
shade for a while.”
“Shade! What
flaming shade?” Martin
indicated the crashed
plane. The starboard - wing
pointed towards the mid-after-
noon sun, and along the
side of the broken fuselage a
thin band of shadow soaked
into the sand. “There’s not
shade enough for an ant to crawl
into.”
His voice trailed away and he
walked heavily back to the plane
and stood with his hands on it,
supporting the weight of his
hunched shoulders. There was
a tall, jagged hole where the
fuselage had broken , just
forward of the turret. Martin
knelt suddenly and pulled out
by its strap a small, flannel-
covered water-bottle. He un-
corked it, tilted back his head
and drank in big gulps.
A/TILLER was beside him in-
stantly, both hands on the
bottle, pulling it firmly and
deliberately away from Martin’s
lips. “Easy, Ron,” he said.
“It’s all we’ve got.”
Martin pushed the cork back
into the bottle and slipped the
strap over his shoulder.
“Don’t give ’em to me,
Dusty,” he said bitterly. “If we
had ten times as much, what
good would it do us?”
“While we’ve got water we’ve
got a chance.”
“A chance of what?”
“A chance to get back.”
“Get backl We don’t even
know where we are.” He turned
and beat his clenched fists on the
hollow fuselage. “That bloody
Brown. That bloody swine.
He’s landed us in this mess, the
useless coot.”
“It’s no use carrying on like
that.” Miller’s voice was lifeless
again. “We’d better do some-
thing about Frank.”
“Do something about him!
He’s dead, isn’t he? He’s all
right.”
“We can’t just leave him
there. We’ll have to bury him
or something.”
“He can stay there for my
part. If it hadn’t been for him
we wouldn’t be here. He’s all
right. He hasn’t got to die of
thirst in this stinking desert.”
He sat down suddenly beside the
plane, his body bent over his
knees, his spread fingers clutch-
ing and releasing handfuls of
the warm sand.
Miller left him and went over
to Brown. The blood on his
face was drying to a darker red
and a drop hung like a tiny icicle
from the lobe of his ear.
With a piece of torn metal
from the fuselage Miller began
to dig a grave beneath the
inclined wing. It was hot and
the desert, despite its soft sur-
face, was hard once the loose
sand had been scraped away.
When he dragged Brown’s body
into the shallow hole, he found
that it was not nearly deep
enough.
He sat back, wondering what
to do. He moistened his lips
but there was sand on them and
it got into his mouth. He spat
into the desert, wiped his lips
with the back of his hand and
moistened his lips again. They
were still sandy.
He was thirsty. Ever since
he’d taken the water-bottle
from Martin, he’d felt that he
needed a drink of water. “I’ll
have one as sooA as I’ve finished
this,” he thought.
Instead of deepening the
grave he turned Brown’s body
over and scratched out a small
hole to take the toes of his
flying-boots. Then, from some
feet around, he scraped in the
loose sand until Brown’s body
was hidden beneath an irregular
mound.
As he rose from his knees a
tiny curve of sand slid away,
revealing the heel of Brown’s
boot. Miller covered it again
with sand and then, without
looking further, went quickly
back to Martin. He was still
thinking of the water.
Martin was sitting where he
had left him. His hands were
clasped round his bent knees
and his head was slumped
forward. He did not stir as
Miller put a hand on his
shoulder and sank down beside
him. * The water-bottle was
standing between Martin’s feet
and Miller reached out and
picked it up.
The feel of it startled him. He
shook it, put it close to his ear
and shook it again. Then he
sat for a few moments in
silence.
“What happened to the water,
Ron?” he said at last.
“I drank it,” Martin replied
harshly, without looking up.
“What’s half-a-bottle of water
one way or the other to us now?
The sooner it’s all over the
better.”
Miller sprang to his feet.
“You gutless rat, Martin,” he
said. “You lousy swine.”
TTE went back to the plane
and climbed inside the
broken cockpit. He was there
for some time and when he
emerged the belt which held his
Luger was buckled round his
waist and hanging from a
shoulder-strap was a water-
bottle.
Martin was still sitting in the
same position and Miller stood
for a moment looking down at
him.
“Martin,” he said, and the
tone of his voice made the other
look up. “You’re a yellow
louse, Martin. You don’t
deserve to live. It’s no thanks
to you, but I’ve 1 got water.” He
hit the container at his side
with his flat palm and Martin
heard the dull thump of a full
bottle.
“And I’m sticking to it,
Martin,” he continued. “Some-
where to the north, it might be
only a few miles away, is the
escarpment road. I’m starting
to walk for it. You can do
what you like, but you’re not
getting a smell of water from
this bottle.” He lifted the bottle
by its strap and swung it in
front of him. “Not a smell.”
He laughed, a short, hard laugh,
and let go the strap so that the
bottle fell back witli a heavy
jerk to his side.
Martin licked his lips help-
lessly, his eyes on the water-
bottle.
“So long, Ron,” Miller said,
turning and striding off across
the soft face of the desert.
Martin sat where he was,
watching Miller walk towards
the flat horizon. “Let him rot,”
he muttered.' He lay back,
thrusting his head into the
widening band of shade and
clasping his hands over his
eyes.
After a few minutes he sat up.
Miller had not gone very far
and Martin sat watching him
irresolutely as one by one the
clumps of low scrub dropped
behind him. A small, lonely
fear gripped him as he began to
realise that Miller was really
going and leaving him to the
certainty of death. He knew
now that, when he had drunk
the water, he hadn’t believed
that he was going to die.
Miller was further away now,
a small, moving figure in a
desert which suddenly seemed to
Martin to have grown terribly
great and empty. A low ridge
of dune-sand thrust its spear-
point across Miller’s path and
presently he began to cross it.
On its crest he stopped and it
seemed to Martin that he lifted
the water-bottle to his lips.
Then he moved on, sinking
gradually into the sand until
only his head was visible.
Martin scrambled up and
began to follow Miller.
“Dusty,” he shouted, but it
was a feeble sound that seemed
to close in around him. He
could not see Miller at all now
and his fear became panic as
he started to run. “The swine,”
he thought. “He had that bottle
all along and he didn’t let on.
If I’d known, it would have,been
different.”
IT seemed to take him a long
time to reach the ridge
behind which Dusty had dis-
appeared. His feet squelched
in the sand, taking the spring
from his muscles so that his
body seemed a dead weight on
his legs.' The perspiration ran
in tiny trickles down his face
and into the corners of his open
mouth.
Before long he was panting
hoarsely and his mouth and
throat were dry. He tried to
concentrate on breathing
through his nose so that he
would retain the moisture in his
mouth, but every now and then
the pressure would become un-
bearable, his lips would burst
cpen and he would take in great,
noisy draughts of warm air.
He forced his heavy feet
forward until he reached the
ridge and could see in it the
irregular, wedge-shaped hollows
where the dry sand had slipped
back into Dusty’s footprints.
He slowed to an anxious,
plodding walk as his feet
encountered the sliding dune-
sand.
At the summit he stopped.
Miller’s khaki-clad form still
moved steadily forward through
the grey clumps of scrub but he
was not far ahead now. Martin
put his hands to his mouth and
called. The sound rasped his
throat, but if Miller heard it
he made no sign.
Martin began to run down
the steep northern side of the
dune, his legs swinging un-
controllably and taking his
weight in sudden, uneven jerks
until his forward momentum
became too great and, falling,
he slid hands-foremost down the
last few feet to the flat, pebbly
surface among the bushes.
He was running again almost
before he was upright. He
needed a drink badly and his
eyes were on the bottle which
hung heavily at Miller’s side.
He called again and, at the
sound, Miller turned and stood
waiting for him.
“Don’t come any closer,
Martin.”
Martin stopped. Miller was
twenty yards from him and his
thin fingers gripped the butt of
the Luger. The blunt nose
pointed steadily at Martin’s
stomach.
“Ah, come off it, Dusty.”
Martin took an uncertain pace
forward.
“Stop where you are.” It was
a shout and Martin stopped.
“What the hell’s up with you?
Have you gone mad?”
“If you come any closer than
you are now, I’ll plug you.”
“Oh, for God’s sake, Dusty.
I’ve been running. I’m all in.
Give us a drink.”
“You’ve had your drink.
You’ll be more than all-in
before you get a drink from
this bottle.”
Martin’s shoulders were still
heaving from the exertion of
running and his lips were drawn
back tightly over his teeth.
“You swine, Miller. You
held out on me with that bottle.
{Continued on next page)


!
CLOTHES
&
■
\ ii"'s
L, ’’f
vv
-vT;
9*l*l
A -// ,f * J
’terns* ,*
% /
r%
A
m
m
■■ :
m
Step out with confidence
Smartness IS admired
Stamina’s A-l De Luxe Sports Trousers win every time. They
win admiring glances, approving comments. They win favours
for you , and friends . . . because you look so very well groomed.
When buying, you will note the added improvements that are
making these attractive Stamina trousers the finest buy in
town . . . the American Top Waist; the Zipper Front that gives
you true neatness; the famous para-lined non-slip waistband;
the genuine, solid leather belt ...
All this, plus top class workmanship and the very finest materials
make these trousers easily your best buy.
ASK FOR
Stamina
AJ (£)e/uxj&
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
T 8.113
How was I to know we had
more water?”
“You just keep yourjfistance,
that’s all.” Miller turned and
walked on. At the sight of his
back Martin jerked into move-
ment again, running forward a
few steps and then steadying
frustratedly to a walk.
“You miserable bastard,” he
shouted after Miller. “You
won’t get away with this. I’ll
follow you till you drop, you
swine. And when you do I’ll
fill your rotten, gaping gob with
sand.”
He saw Miller return the
Luger to its holster and checked
a new impulse to break into a
run. Miller plodded on steadily
towards the unchanging horizon
and Martin followed him, his
thirst forgotten in the breathless
pulsing of the bitter thoughts
which gave energy to his legs.
From time to time his teeth
gleamed in a bitter snarl as in
imagination he felt his hands
grip Miller’s bony frame and
beneath his fingers was the
curved heaviness of the water-
bottle.
He wanted to rush Miller and
overpower him ; and tried again
and again to force himself into
attempting it. But there had
been a reality about the hard,
shiny nose of the Luger in
Miller’s skinny hand, and the
memory of this held him back.
They moved on, mile after
mile. The sun set and a clear,
round moon rose, patterning the
sand with spidery shadows and
throwing black stains round the
bases of the clumps of bushes.
Miller’s pace did not slacken
and Martin followed doggedly
after him, falling back a little
from time to time and then,
with fearful anxiety, hurrying
forward until he had caught up.
His shadow shortened and
bobbed along before him so that
he seemed to be treading on his
own head.
T ONG hours afterwards the
sun rose and lifted its
dazzling mass quickly above the
horizon. The coolness of the
desert night slipped easily away
and above the bushes lay the
horizontal shimmer of the heat.
Martin’s thirst increased
rapidly. The hatred which had
previously driven him forward
gave way to desperation and a
fearful self-pity. He had felt
sure that at sunrise Miller would
stop and offer him a drink, but
there had been no pause in their
progress. Miller kept on, step
after step, with a mechanical
evenness, pausing neither to rest
nor to drink.
Martin’s desire for water
became an obsession. Hour
after hour, over the loose sand
and stony patches, he followed
Miller, scarcely seeing him, his
eyes fixed on the grey bottle
which moved along ahead of
him.
Towards midday he felt him-
self beginning to stumble and
it became increasingly irksome
for him to have to turn aside
to skirt the clumps of bushes
which suddenly appeared before
him. His mouth was dry and,
though he pressed his lips
together and sucked hard at his
cheeks, no moisture would
come and he could not swallow.
But Miller was still ahead of
him and he reeled after him,
waiting for the moment when
he would rush forward and
fasten his hands around the
bottle.
By mid-afternoon Martin’s
thirst was almost secondary to
the agony of drawing breath.
He tried to moisten his lips but
the feel of his tongue against
them was like a huge, rough
palm against concrete. His feet
were heavy and he was conscious
of the effort to lift each one in
turn.
He got the idea that, if he
took his boots off, the weight
dragging at his legs would dis-
appear and he would skim along
smoothly and effortlessly. He
sat down and began to pull at
the laces.
Miller stopped and came back
to him. His hand was on the
Luger but he had not taken it
from its holster.
“Keep them on, Ron!”
Miller’s voice was a harsh
whisper but Martin did not
notice as he continued to tug
ineffectually at the knotted lace.
Miller pulled out the automatic
and moved closer to Martin.
“I said keep them on. Your
feet’ll be cut to ribbons.”
Martin staggered to his feet
and moved towards Miller.
“Dusty ...”
“Stay where you are.” The
Luger jerked level.
“Dusty . . . water ... a drink,
for God’s sake.”
“You can have a drink
tomorrow, if you’re still
following.”
“Tomorrow! Tomorrow! ”
Martin dropped to his knees and
began to crawl towards Miller,
his mouth hanging open, his
shoulders heaving with the rasp
of his breath. “I’m all-in,
Dusty. Do you want to kill
me?”
“I want to see you rub that
sand in my mouth.” Miller
turned and walked on, and with
a horrible, half-strangled cry
Martin lurched to his feet and
began to follow him.
“I’ll catch him! I’ll kill
him!” The thought throbbed
through Martin’s brain with a
pulsating fierceness, its rhythm
interrupted from time to time
as he floundered against the
patches of scrub.
Towards sunset he lost sight
of Miller. One moment he had
been there, the centre of
Martin’s half-crazy thoughts,
and then he was there no longer.
A wild panic superseded the
insane hatred which had been
almost all that was left to Martin
of consciousness.
He broke into a shambling
run, trying with a desperate
nightmare inability to call
Dusty’s name. He stumbled
and fell headlong and was
forcing himself up again when
he saw Miller. He, too, was on
his hands and knees and the
sun had cast the shadow of a
camelthorn across his shoulders.
The bottle hung down and
rested on its corner in the' sand.
YX/ITH a feeling of triumph
* * Martin crawled forward
towards it. He saw it move
suddenly and leave a shallow
track across the sand and lifted
his eyes to find himself once
more confronted by Miller and
the Luger. They crouched
there in the sand, neither mov-
ing, neither speaking, glaring at
one another with the unblinking
and unimaginative ferocity of
two desperate animals.
When Miller rose slowly to
his feet and staggered on,
Martin was vaguely aware that
it was moonlight. He followed,
lurching in an odd, erratic zig-
zag from clump to clump.
The moon paled and the sun
rose and it was tomorrow but
Martin did not realise that. He
knew nothing now, except that
Miller was ahead of him and
the water-bottle still hung from
his shoulders.
Then Miller disappeared
again. Martin became slowly
aware that the desert was empty
and that there was nothing
before him but the horizon ris-
ing and falling in a sickly,
swimming haze. He tried to run
and it was the nightmare all
over again. He could hear the
harsh rasping of his breath and
it seemed as though he were
breathing through his ears. His
knees rose up in front of him,
blocking his progress.
“Dusty,” he called. “Dusty!”
But only the tiniest grating
sound came from his throat.
He fell, and his face ploughed
into the hot desert, filling his
mouth with grit. He struggled
up until the weight of his
shoulders was on his elbows and
there, for a few moments, he
remained, trying vainly to spit
out the dry, choking sand.
He got to his feet again and,
his eyes fixed on the horizon,
tottered forward. Suddenly
there was before him only a
great, empty world of air. His
feet missed the dragging contact
with the sand and he fell
forward into nothing. It seemed
a long time before his body
touched the sand again. It was
not solid but gave with him and
he rolled over and over, not
realising what was happening
and making no attempt to stop
himself.
When he finally came to rest
he was half-way down a low
escarpment. He lay motionless
for some time and then began
to feel feebly about him. As his
hands explored the familiar sand
he raised himself and knelt,
gazing uncomprehendingly
down the steep, small slope.
He jerked suddenly into
motion again. A few yards
ahead of him he had caught
sight of Miller.
Martin rose unsteadily,
stepped forward and fell again.
The sand gave way before his
hands but this time he did not
roll. Not trusting himself to
rise again he half-crawled, half-
slid down to the rubbly level at
the foot of the escarpment.
Miller lay a few yards ahead
of him, clawing at the base of a
clump of bushes. Martin
crawled to his side, his senses
clearing to a fierce, vindictive
triumph.
The strap of the bottle was
across Miller’s back and
shoulder but the bottle itself was
beneath him. Martin tugged at
the strap but it did not give, so,
with a desperate heave, he
caught hold of Miller and turned
him over.
Miller’s lips were swollen and
the sand clung to the raw,
blackened cracks. He was
clutching at Martin and trying
to speak but Martin did not
notice that. He saw nothing but
the water-bottle lying on the
other side of Miller and flung
himself upon it, grasping it
with crooked, anxious fingers
and pulling it towards him. He
drew out the cork and with both
hands lifted the bottle to his
lips.
A STREAM of sand shot out
•*-*- and filled his mouth. Not
understanding, he lowered the
bottle and looked at it. Then
he raised it quickly again. A
thin trickle of sand ran away
from the corners of his lips.
He held the bottle before him
and tipped it gently so that
another stream of sand poured
away from it.
When comprehension came
his hatred of Miller burst in
his brain in a paroxysm of fury
and frustration.
“Tricked me! You swine!
Tricked me!”
His throat swelled with the
choking attempt to shout, and
with his remaining strength he
lifted the bottle and struck at
Miller’s head. He struck again
and again, dull weakening blows
with the sand-filled bottle that
had lured him for two days
towards safety.
He fell forward at last, across
Miller’s body. The bottle v s
caught between them, and its
contents trickled slowly back
into the sand.
From the escarpment road
two-hundred yards away the
hum of a truck faded and passed
unnoticed into the silence.


Commonwealth Loan Subscriptions
are an important factor
in the drive for
The development of Australia is, and should
be, our great national ideal. The nation’s
savings should be employed to increase produc-
tion, to consolidate prosperity and to stimulate
export income. Investment of the savings of
many thousands of Australians in Common-
wealth Loans is an effective way of helping to
attain these important objectives.
Money subscribed to the Commonwealth Loan
now open will be used to maintain steady
progress on national projects vital to food
production and soil improvement. It will help
to provide increased facilities in power, rail and
road transport, more forestry areas and better
harbours. Finance will also be provided for
schools, homes and hospitals to serve our
increasing population.
When you invest your savings in Common-
wealth Loan Bonds you help to strengthen
Australia’s economy and, at the same time,
assure the security of your capital and a certain,
regular income.
Payment of interest every six months at an
unvarying rate and full repayment of capital
-on maturity are backed by the Common-
wealth’s total resources.
Another substantial advantage enjoyed by
Commonwealth Loan investors is the Income
Tax rebate allowed on Commonwealth Loan
interest included in their taxable incomes.
TERMS OF ISSUE —One, 10 or 15 Years
Investors may choose Bonds or Inscribed Stock as follow:
1.
2.
3.
I O-year Securities bearing interest at 4V2%
per annum, issued at par, and maturing on
NOVEMBER 15, 1965.
15-year Securities bearing interest at 4V2%
per annum, issued at par, and maturing on
NOVEMBER 15, 1970.
One-year Securities bearing interest at 3%
per annum, issued at £99/15/- per cent., and
maturing on NOVEMBER 15, 1956.
Minimum Subscription
is £lO for the 10 or
15-year terms and £lOO
for the short-term
Securities.
Applications may be
lodged with any bank,
savings bank or stock-
broker.
CONVERSIONS
£23,406,000 of 3% % Australian
Consolidated Securities issued
in February-June, 1939, will
mature on 15th December,
1955. Also to mature on the
same date are £106,081,000 of
3% Commonwealth Bonds and
Inscribed Stock issued in March-
April and September-October,
1953. Holders are invited to
convert these Securities into new
Bonds or Inscribed Stock on the
same terms as those offered in
the Cash Loan now open.
For Maximum Return with 100% Security-Invest in the
WL
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury.
“You want to jump off from
this point,” Joe gestured con-
fidently from the torrent’s brink.
“She’s wide here, but the
current’ll just about bring you
to the narrowest part an’ give
you a chance to reach the other
bank at the lowest point.
Foller me? The banks are a
bit high, as you can see, an’ I
dunno as you’d make it if you
don’t strike bottom at the right
point.
“Another thing you gotta
watch.” He became animated
as a further possibility of drama
suggested itself. “See that ledge
o’ rock in the middle? You
want to avoid that. Water just
covers it in parts, an’ if you get
caught on it there might be
sharp edges.”
Mr. Grant shuddered. His
bottom, he felt sure, was ringed
with blisters from the seat-
springs. To be further scarified,
in yet other portions, on that
vicious-looking ledge
He made a last bid. “But a
swimming-costume —of course
I couldn’t”
Joe shouted with laughter.
What queer notions these city
people had! “Now what would
you be wantin’ a costume for?
Who’d be seein’ you here? An’
what would it matter, anyway?
This ain’t Bondi, you know.”
Bondi! On a January day
like this! A sharp nostalgic
wave swept over Mr. Grant.
Ah, well, this was not so much
worse than his other morning’s
woes, and there would be more
January Bondi’s in his lifetime.
“I’ll do it,” he said resignedly.
“ ’Course you’ll do it,”
approved Joe. “Now, while
you’re gettin’ undressed I’ll get
the mail ready for the flyin’-
fox.”
Mr. Grant slunk behind a
bush, from which he peered
forth furtively a few moments
later. A swift examination had
confirmed his fears for his pos-
terior. Half of one side of it
was a scarred mass, grotesquely
lurid in the surrounding white-
ness. Consciousness of it
increased his embarrassment
considerably, and he crouched
defensively at sound of Joe’s
returning footsteps.
“All set, eh? Well, you might
as well be on your way. Got
your clothes all ready? I’ll send
’em over as soon as you get
there.”
A/TR. GRANT shyly proffered
the pathetic bundle, feeling
that he was Surrendering his
heritage of civilisation. He
made one last fleeting survey of
anxious reconnaissance from his
refuge, and stepped shrinkingly
into the open. Once there the
sense of his nakedness appalled
him, and he prepared to sub-
merge at once.
“Take it careful now.” By
now Joe’s conscience-prickings
were sublimated in stirrings of
protectiveness. “You’ll do it
easy if you remember what I
told you. Off you go, now.”
Mr. Grant plunged. Instantly
the current seized him. He
struck out wildly, thrusting
away a mass of weeds as it
rioted against his face. Visions
of jagged rock spurred his arms
into flails. The farther bank
sped away from him at an
alarming rate, but he was still
above the point of his destina-
tion. A dozen more furious
strokes and one hand scraped
sand. His other snatched for a
grip, lost it, and found it again.
He wrenched with both arms
and dragged himself to the
shallows. For a moment he
crouched there, gasping.
Strangely, his first feeling was
one of elation. He’d made it!
Like Joe in the bog, he’d got
through.
He pulled himself upright,
and, standing on firm-planted
feet, called above the roar of
the creek:
“Right-oh, Mr. Ganney!
Send ’em over!”


YOUR CHOICE
11l
)
#
•
m
m
m
m
m
m
•
3505223
MZPf^
ui*
120252
tVATT
jSsuSS*
cohn??!*
Ss5S5n?!L
labor
IT IS
FOR YOU TO DEClDE-
between a Government that has delivered
the goods . . . and a warring and divided
Labor Party.
Don't gamble with prosperity
INVEST IN SUCCESS
lvnaan
m SPOONER
[s] RE'D
PH McCALLUM
M
PLACE A NUMBER IN EVERY SQUARE
Authorised by J. L Carrick, 30 Ash Street, Sydney.
y 074
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divoece.
TO HENRY THRELFALL late of Danie
Street Belmont New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that JOAN DAVIES THREL
FALL has filed a Petition for Dissolution
of Marriage No. 3949 of 1955 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards I
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by lsi
February 1956 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from W. H.
BAKER & LOVE, Solicitors, 122-124
Hunter Street, Newcastle; or from their
Town Agent, W. J. MACLEAN, Solicitor,
88 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BETTY ELAINE OLIVER late of
Bayview Street Mount Hutton New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that JAMES
OLIVER has filed a Petition for Disso-
lution of Marriage No. 2512 of 1955 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by Ist
February 1956 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from W. H.
BAKER & LOVE, Solicitors, 122-124
Hunter Street, Newcastle; or from their
Town Agent, W. J. MACLEAN, Solicitor,
88 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ARTHUR VICTOR HARVEY late of
42 Bayswater Road Darlinghurst.—TAKE
NOTICE that HILDA THERESA
HARVEY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4624 of 1954 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Ist day of
February 1956 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from N. D.
THOMAS, ANDERSON & McCREDIE,
Solicitors, of 51 Oastlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO EDMUND JAMES POWELL (in the
Marriage Certificate referred to as
EDWARD JAMES POWELL).—TAKE
NOTICE that PAULA MARGARETHA
POWELL {nee SPINDLER) (in the Mar-
riage Certificate referred to as PAULA
MAGERITTA SPINDLER and also as
PAULA MAGERETA SPINDLER) has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1096 of
1955 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Ist day of February 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from N. D. THOMAS, ANDERSON
& McCREDIE, Solicitors, of 51 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—-J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO MARY AGNES MANN late of 115
Manderine Street Villawood. —TAKE
NOTICE that PHILLIP RICHARD MANN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 878
of 1955 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Ist day of February 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from N. D. THOMAS, ANDER-
SON & McCREDIE, Solicitors, of 51
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO MARY ANN STURGESS of Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that FREDERICK
GEORGE STURGESS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4017 of 1955 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
2nd February 1956 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. LESTER & PAUL, Solicitors,
of Tumut.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
tient-nirm
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
i
COIVIf STCttllT | tl. I TO. 111(01
Price* from
25'- to 90 / -
Gives Character
Co you*' Writing,
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of bush ballad “Tam-
baroora Gold,” containing the line
“I’ve travelled for experience and
often I’ve been sold.” —6213.
To buy copy of the first issue of
“The Battlecock” (a quarterly maga-
zine published by John Lane
London), containing 16 full-page
Norman Lindsay drawings.—62l4.
To buy copy of Henry Lawson by
His Mates, edited by J. le Gay
Brereton and Bertha Lawson. —6222.
Key to notabilities shown in the
painting by F. Matania, “The
Unknown Warrior,” depicting buria
service at Westminster Abbey on
November 11, 1920, which was pub-
lished as a supplement to “The
Sphere” (London) of November 20,
1920.—6220.
To buy copies of Shaw Neilson,
by James Devaney; Christopher
Brennan: The Man and His Poetry,
by A. R. Chisholm; and Bernard
O’Dowd, by Victor Kennedy and
Nettie Palmer. —6219.
Does Anybody Know?
How to play huff-patience?—62l6.
Information Sought
List of reference-books on (J)
ancient Greek history, (2) ancient
Greek art, (3) ancient Greek litera-
ture, (4) Roman history, (5) Italian
history?
Here are but a few of the innumer-
able works available in English in
each section, with the dates of pub-
lication of the more recent: (1)
History of Greece, by George Grote
(despite Grote’s faults and limita-
tions, still probably the best history
of Greece); The History of Greece,
by J. B. Bury; History of Greece, by
Sir George Finlay; A History of
the Ancient World, by M. Ros-
tovtzeff (translated); Ancient Times,
by J. H. Breasted. (2) Principles of
Greek Art, by P. Gardner; The Art
of the Greeks, by H. B. Walters;
The Art of Greece, by E. A. Gardner.
(3) Ancient Greek Literature, by
C. M. Bowra; The Greek Way, by
Kathleen Freeman; The Spring of
Civilisation, by C. A. Robinson
(1955); Greek Prose Style, by John
Dewar Denniston (1952); Greek
Literature for the Modern Reader,
by H. C. Baldry (1951). (4) Gibbon’s
Decline and Fall of the Roman
Empire; The Roman Empire, by
H. S. Jones; The Decline of the
Roman Empire in the West, by F. W.
Walbank (1946); A History of Rome
Down to the Reign of Constantine,
by Max Cary (1954); History of the
Later Roman Empire, by J. B. Bury;
The Byzantine Empire, by C. W. C.
Oman. (5) A Short History of the
Italian People, by J. Trevelyan;
A Concise History of Italy from
Prehistoric Times to Our Own Day
(1940), by Luigi Salvatorelli;
Renaissance in Italy, by J. A.
Symonds; Italy and Her Invaders, by
T. Hodgkin ; The Genius of Italy, by
L. Olschki (1950); Contemporary
Italy, by Conte Carlo Sforza (1946).
Most of these works are obtainable
in Australia at booksellers or public-
libraries.
* * * *
A few aboriginal names suitable
perhaps for a small boat?
Agalie, Booltaroo, Korong,
Murring, Warella, canoe; Murrum-
burrah, two canoes; Bodalla, haven
for boats; Akoonah, flowing water;
Awoonga, sheet of water; Belbowrie,
scrubby creek; Berong, large river;
Boondi, water breaking over rocks;
Boorong, big rock; Bungoona,
Culbara, sandy creek; Carwoola,
waters meeting; Coorumbong, creek
with rocky bottom; Karloo, Nabilla,
Nattai, water; Kulanda, salt-water;
Moilong, tide coming in; Narang,
small creek; Wangara, west wind;
Waree, canoe-paddle; Warriwilla,
swirling waters; Yakooli, fish;
Yarram, crayfish or large stream.
* * * *
Is home-made cheese possible ? If
so, information?
Although the process is simple, it
is not easy to'"make a good cheese
without skill and the proper equip-
ment. To make a good cream-cheese,
place thick, matured cream in a
butter-muslin bag (or cloth tied-up
by the corners) and hang in cool
place until all water has dripped out.
With a knife, work in salt (or celery-
salt). Small, quantities are easiest to
handle. For milk-cheese, add rennet
to warm milk, as for making junket,
and place curd in colander to drain-
off whey. After a few days, the dry
curd may be shaped into cheeses,
adding salt. These must be turned
every day, sprinkled with salt and
any mould removed; then place on
a shelf in a dry, airy place for a few
weeks. Butter may be added in the
early stages to soften and tone-up
the cheese. Mould and excessive dry-
ness militate against success. It is
not possible in the space to explain
finer points; if you wish to tackle it
seriously, write the Department of
Agriculture in your State-capital and
ask for leaflets.
* * * *
Some information on the Shell
Scholarships for 1956 ?
Two scholarships for two years’
post-graduate work in the applied-
sciences, at Oxford, Cambridge or
London Universities are being offered.
Applicants must be British subjects,
under 25, who have read chemistry,
physics, mathematics or geology as a
major subject or have taken degrees
with honors in engineering or
chemical-engineering at an Australian
university. The scholarship is worth
£S7SO per annum for two years, with
passages paid to and from the U.K.
Candidates will be expected to leave
Australia in time for the commence-
ment of the English academic year,.
September-October, 1956. Candi-
dates may do post-graduate research
in the subject in which they obtained
their first degree, at the end of which
they would be expected to submit a
thesis leading to a Ph.D. or M.Sc.,
or undergraduate instruction leading
to a degree in an applied subject.
Equal consideration will be given to
married and unmarried candidates.
The Shell Petroleum Company, Eng-
land, may offer post-scholarship posi-
tions to candidates, who are under
no obligation to accept. Applications,
which are being handled by the
University Registrar and Shell office-
manager in each State, will close on
December 12, 1955.
Brief Answers
L.T.: The Labor Party of Aus-
tralia was formed in 1891 A.S.W.:
The first poet-laureate proper was
Edmund Spenser, appointed by Queen
Elizabeth in 1591; John Dryden,
however, was the first English poet
to receive the title by letters-patent
(1670)... .W.8.F.: (1) The 770-ton
Wansfell was launched in 1853; she
belonged to the Black Ball Line, and
was later bought by James Bams.
Dates of her arrivals in Brisbane
from London were: Nov. 13, 1861;
Dec. 1, 1862; Feb. 25, 1865; June 28,
1866. (2) No information on Suffolk.
(3) The 349-ton vessel Lima was the
third of Dr. John Dunmore Lang’s
immigrant-ships. Under Captain
Yule, she arrived at Moreton Bay on
Nov. 3, 1849, carrying 84 immigrants,
some of whom had paid their own
passage, brought agricultural labor
with them, and held land-orders from
Dr. Lang... .F.C.: The Complete
Book of Patience, by Albert H.
Morehead and Geoffrey Mott-Smith
(1950), does not list the game. It
could be a variant-name, rarely used.
....K.8.L.: (1) As at December 31,
1954, authorised strength of the
N. S. Wales police-force was 4736,
actual strength, 4459; ancillary
staffs, 584; total of all employees,
5043; and ratio of police to popula-
tion, one to 768, or 1.3 per 1000. (2)
Special parking-police totalled 98;
cadets in training, 92 A.L.M.: In
the West Berlin municipal-elections
held on Dec. 5, 1954, the Social
Democrats obtained 44.6 per cent, of
the votes and 64 seats; the Christian
Democrats, 30.4 per cent, and 44
seats; the Free Democrats, 12.8 per
cent, and 19 seats K.W.: Joe
Louis won the world heavyweight
title in 1937 at the age of 23; Rocky
Marciano won the title in 1952 at
the age of 28....M.D.: Write the
Historical Society of Queensland,
Box 1811, G.P.0., Brisbane
R.L.L.: The “Primary Producers’
Income-tax Guide” was published in
The Bulletin of August 3, 1955
F.W.H.: Bamboo and Bushido, by
A. G. Allbury, published by Robert
Hale, Ltd., London... .L.E.F.: “The
Call of the Wandering Jew,” by
Nathan F. Spielvogel, appeared in
The Bulletin of June 9, 1910
F.L.R.: From Tyrrell’s Bookshop,
202 George-street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
A.H.8.: “On the Banks of the
Peel” last seen tottering on the edge
of the basket... .M.H.: Still ponder-
ing and wondering about your
“wonder-ponder” rhyme G.D.L.:
Our jaded nerves could not stand
all those “hearty woofs” G.C.:
“Time Will Tell” vanished some-
where “in the loud city roar and
bustling crowd” B.B.: “There’s
no place where she can lie.” Well,
there is the w.p.b G.E.K.: Don’t
tell us that those willows are still
bending “their boughs” by
that still, hidden pool 8.L.:
“With bounding, frantic speed” it
fled “along the track that leads to
home”... .8.D.: One of the dunces
of the “Laugh, clown, laugh” school.
B.E.: We shed a few tears for
the poor little leaves who “will never
more see summer” W.P.O’S.:
And we broke down completely
when we encountered Jack Larkin’s
missus:
Lying prostrate on the floor,
Her laughing face wan and pale,
Her rosebud lips a deadly blue,
She was far from being hale.
H.H.B.: The Warrumbungles
appear to have been well explored
by now... .F.R.C.: We gave it our
“kind perusal.” Alas, ’tis but a
trifle C.H.S.: We couldn’t resist
this masterpiece:—
Tastes of animals can’t be anticipated,
Some are simple, some dissipated.
While city dogs prefer a waffle,
Country dogs are fond of offal.
. ...R.8.C.: You have at least
-achieved the distinction of being
the first poet to write a poem about
Dindarnanup (W.A.) J. 8.: Some-
times we, too, feel like making “A
Plea for Silence”... .RJ.McF.: Can’t
allow you to “squat ’em longa gum-
tree” in our pages D.K.R.:
“Beachcomber” was washed out
with the tide L.C.: Money! You
will never make it by writing verse.
C.P.: Still deafened by:—
The mighty roar of water down the hill
Whose voice by day or night is never
still.
R.S.P.: One more poem about
the Cataract Gorge, “which is
regarded as one of Australia’s
choicest beauty spots,” and we will
jump from the top N.R.McG.:
“Brother, the wind is in the gums.”
Brother, the poem is in the basket.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
More Money for Research?
The discovery of a possible anti-T.B.
drug, verazide, by the two university
researchers (Professor Sydney Rubbo, of
Melbourne University, and Dr. Cymer-
man Craig, of Sydney University) brings
to notice that universities are not given
nearly enough funds for them to under-
take proper research.
World-ranking scientists overseas,
working with the latest equipment in the
most modern laboratories, have been
trying in vain for years to find a counter
to T.B. The two Australians, cramped
and cobped-up, found it in the worst
possible conditions in which to experi-
ment.
During the week in which the dis-
covery of verazide was announced the
N.S.W. State Government refused to make
a cash-grant to Sydney University for the
building of two nuclear-reactors for train-
ing technicians. Certainly the State Gov-
ernment does make an annual grant to
the University; but that’s the point—it’s
not nearly enough. And any extra appro-
priation for the development of atomic
energy is more than justified.
Recently a joint committee of the
Sydney University senate and the
Nuclear Research Foundation decided
that a Department of Nuclear
Science and Engineering should be
formed at the University; the two
nuclear-reactors were essential to the pro-
ject. A special grant should have been
forthcoming without any hesitancy.
Discoveries can be made on shoestring
allowances, as the production of verazide
shows. But how much greater the results
with better equipment and facilities! Any
money granted by Governments will be
recouped by the community a hundred-
fold.—Kaymara (N.S.W.).
Canefarming Costs
“Warrakoo’s” economics (B. 9/11/’55)
are as shaky as those of his canecutter
acquaintance. If cutting took only 10
per cent, of the gross proceeds of a cane-
crop, growers would be very happy.
Wages vary a little in the northern,
central, and southern sections of the in-
dustry, but the minimum award for cut-
ting averages about 13s. 2d. per ton. As
cane fetches, roughly, about £4 per ton,
a cutter takes out not 10, but over 16
per cent.
Fulltruck’s farming budget, as outlined
by “Warrakoo,” is indeed a strange one.
”No, missus, I edden Coornish, but feyther ’n mawther was.”
He (Fulltruck) must be in deep water if
the bank takes 50 per cent, of his gross
proceeds. If Fulltruck is “coming good”
next year, I doubt if any bank would do
it.
It would need a crop of 1000 tons to
gross £4OOO. Sugar authorities say that a
man is doing well if he nets £2 per ton.
If the bank takes this £2OOO there is
nothing left for Fulltruck at all. And
farmers agree that it is a rich farm and
a clever farmer who nets £2 per ton.
Quite a few farmers successfully follow-
up breaches of cutting-agreements with
prosecutions. “Warrakoo” could find
reports of them in the “Sugar Journal”
or “Producer’s Review,” though not in
the “Worker”—naturally each paper
favors the side that publishes it.
Of course there are a lot of scamps
among cutters. There are also a few
villains on farms. But the better sections
of both are ill-served by figures and quo-
tations such as “Warrakoo” gives.—
B. J. L. (Q.).
Security
It’s not longer life that makes people
want security (B. 26/10/’55); they’ve
always wanted it. Our grandfathers
looked forward to when they would own
a row of houses, the popular conception
of wealth in those days. Then, as now,
there were some who did something
about it and some who put it off until
tomorrow. The latter eventually became
a charge on the former, though, as John
Hogarth points out, the burden was
lighter then because fewer stayed the
distance.
“We can expect in the near future
that compulsory saving for age will be
allowed for in taxation,” says “J.H.”
It’s supposed to be allowed for now.
The Chifley Government increased taxa-
tion to a level which it claimed was high
enough to provide complete social cover.
As overall taxation has not been appre-
ciably reduced since, we are presumably
still covered.
But before we decide to abandon all
attempts at self-help, it might be wise
to ponder how much of the takings has
been used to build and populate the
useless mock-city of Canberra. — Howie
Wing (W.A.).
TV Bands
In advocating a new TV probe “In the
ACT” (B. 19/10/’55) unfairly criticises
the P.M.G.’s Department for not sharing
his belief that the expansion of TV in
Australia will equal that achieved in the
U.S. Lack of response to the Fairhall
statement doesn’t necessarily reflect
ignorance of technical matters; rather a
disinclination to correct noticeable errors
in that statement.
The very-high-frequency band allows
five I'V-channels only (not 10 as stated),
each spanning nearly five megacycles in
a band of 25megs. (Each operator trans-
mits vision and sound separately on fre-
quencies 3.smegs. apart.) In the U.S.,
six channels are available from a slightly
extended v.-h.-f. band.
Limitation of frequency-allocations was
resented in that country also, but this
was accepted as a technical limit until
the “big freeze” provoked intense research
leading to the development of the ultra-
high-frequency band. Some operators
then adopted a knowledgeable attitude
and blamed the Communications Com-
mission for lack of foresight, despite the
fact that manufacturers of TV-sets had
not anticipated use of the u.-h.-f. band,
either.
If a mistake occurred, as claimed, the
fact that an independent Com-
munications Commission was the party
at fault does not recommend formation
of a similar commission here.
The significant factor with U.S. TV
is that a mere six channels carried a
nation-wide network which catered for
viewers so well that close to 30-million
receivers were sold and operated. As
Australia can hope to cater for less than
10 per cent, of this figure within the first
10 years, isn’t it over ambitious to suggest
that the post-office is “freezing develop-
ment from the outset” by not using the
u. band immediately?
Under present planning this band is
held in reserve until expansion becomes
not only necessary but also economic.
That is unlikely to be in the near future.
Herbert Holman, writing in The
Bulletin, quotes a British statement that
“TV operators need a capital of £3-4 mil-
lion and must be prepared to lose money
for two years or so.” With unlimited
TV (and provided amateurs, jet-aircraft
and all others were banned from both
bands), Melbourne could therefore
operate 10 channels for an outlay of
close to £4O million, this sum to be
recovered within a reasonable period from
a population of H million, of which
perhaps 250,000 might eventually become
viewers.
Beyond supporting advertisers to an
extent necessary for the recovery of nor-
mal operating expenses, these viewers
would be called upon progressively to
provide £l6O per head to offset the ex-
tremely high capital-outlay. In addition,
they would have to pay a higher price for
TV-sets capable of receiving both
v. and u.-h.-f. transmissions.
We are not ready for TV at that price.
Small audiences, poor programmes,
higher prices for advertised goods, lack
of advertiser-support, bankruptcy of
operators due to overkeen competition
for advertising—any or all of these effects
could result from too-expensive television.
The post-office appears to have studied
Australian conditions thoroughly and
compromised on limited TV as necessary
to successful operation. —J. G. M. (Vic.).
Barrier-reef Fishing
Tourists and others coming to the
North Queensland coast have often been
told wonderful stories of the fishing on
the Barrier Reef. Yet the Reef is not a
good place for fishing. There are plenty
of fish in both variety and quantity, but,
as in all tropical waters, there is any
amount of natural feed. When the visitor
spends several hours holding a rod or a
line for little or no result and wonders
what is wrong, he doesn’t know that the
fish are not interested, no matter how
attractive the bait.
Recent proposals to close or otherwise
restrict fishing in parts of the N.Q. coast,
as they were allegedly fished-out, are non-
sense. The small amount of fisli taken
cannot possibly have made any difference.
No one has ever suggested that the
North Sea or the Newfoundland Banks
are fished-out because fishermen have a
bad year or so. Over the last couple of
years the N.Q. weather has not been
good and the professional fishermen who
depend largely on the shoal-fish for their
big catches were unable to operate.
Hence the cry of no fish.
The increasing popularity of spear-
fishing, mainly due to better and more
efficient gear available, is certainly adding
to interest in the Reef. While deep diving
with the aqualung is a young man’s sport,
anyone who can swim can lie on, or near,
the surface with a head-glass and snorkel-
tube and discover a wonderful new world
of color and life. One must see these fan-
tastic scenes to believe them. They are
beyond description. With practice and
confidence comes the desire to go deeper
and float into those soundless wonder-
lands of blue and green. Fish swim about
and look into the face-glass. The swim-
mer soon becomes an enthusiastic diver,
Spear-fishing clubs have been formed
in most towns along the N.Q. coast, and
visitors from the South are welcome in
most of them. The sport should lure
away all those not-so-keen fishermen who
get very bored after half-an-hour without
fish. They will see plenty to talk about
in half-an-hour under the surface. And
we then won’t have our visitors returning
to Sydney and telling their friends, “The
best place I know to get fish is the fish-
shop on Darlinghurst-road.” —H. W. F.
(Q-).
Stamps
The decision of the Australian post-
office to cut-out commemoratives does,
in part, spring from the expressed dis-
satisfaction of buyers —not, as “Hist.”
suspects (B. 2/11/’55), collectors, but
general commercial users.
Almost all of our commemorative
issues have raised a howl because of their
size, but it is considered artistically im-
practicable to cramp pictorial or histori-
cal motifs into the standard limit of
13/16in. by lin.
Any future flora or fauna minting will
almost certainly be of regulation size,
without the Queen’s profile. — Post-
script (N.S.W.).
Infant Welfare
“Doynest’s” figures (B. 12/10/’55) on
the percentage of cars and babies were
interesting, but some other figures on
infant-welfare in Victoria stand to the
credit of that State. Victoria has advanced
so much in looking after babies that its
infant-mortality rate is claimed to be
the second-lo West in the world. At the
turn of the century 80 babies in every
1000 bom in Victoria died before reach-
ing 12 months, but for the year ended
last June the ratio of infant-deaths had
dwindled to less than one-quarter of that
figure. Official figures show 19 deaths
per 1000 —beaten only by Sweden with
18. The Australian average is 22.51.
Over the last half-century medical
science has made great strides towards a
healthier world. Local-government
bodies have undertaken many respon-
sibilities, particularly in the provision
of infant-welfare centres. This muni-
cipal service ensures that young mothers
can receive free assistance and guidance.
Of the 203 municipalities in Victoria
only three do not participate in this
service. Some councils operate more
than one centre in their areas, making a
total of 515 such centres in the whole
State. In the Melbourne metropolitan
area 35 councils support 150 centres.
Some of the more remote centres out-
back are served by mobile facilities.
Of every 100 babies born in Victoria,
71 attend inf ant-welfare centres, and
more than a million visits are made to
these centres each yeafr. In addition,
100,000 visits each year are made by
staff-sisters to homes of mothers unable
to travel to the centres.
A correspondence service conducted by
the Maternal and Child Hygiene branch
of the Health Department supplements
the work of the municipal centres. Each
year 30,000 letters of advice go out to
mothers, mostly in outback districts,
exercising a general supervision over the
wide network. Emergency housekeeper-
services have also been introduced for
young mothers who are ill. The cost of
it all is met by the State Government
and the councils.
Officials estimate that each year Vic-
torian municipalities spend a quarter of
a million pounds in providing social-
welfare services for the benefit of every
family in every street. — Allan B. (Vic.).


$
CATTLE
TROUGHING
SEPTIC TANKS
WELL
LININGS
□
□
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that’s why you should -* always specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.SW. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE 8X4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN, LISMORE.
QUEANBEYAN, RYDALMERE, TAMWORTH.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
nd Commercial
Shipping, Banking and
Institutions throughout Australia
3r-
JACKSOX
OSUIXTVAX
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers,
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'
RED MILL RUM.
Big striders were all at sea
on the soft Randwick track on
Saturday, and it might be wise
to overlook the defeat of several
well-fancied horses. One that
was far from happy in the going
was Grand Stream, a long-
strider and well fancied, but
last in the main event, the
Paddock Handicap. The per-
formance caused Grand Stream
to ease in the Summer Cup
market, but on a solid track he
might quickly improve.
Gay Vista, Australia’s No. 1
sprinter, recorded the best win
of his brilliant career when he
ploughed through the rain-
sodden Randwick track to easily
win the Malabar Handicap (six
furlongs). The time, 1.15-9/10,
indicates the state of the going.
Gay Vista made light of his big
weight, 9.10, and proved that a
class sprinter can overcome both
a heavy track and heavy pound-
age when fit. He strung together
five successive wins earlier this
year and then finished fourth in
the Doncaster, for which he
started favorite and carried 9.4.
In the Villiers Stakes Gay
Vista has 9.4, and he has yet
to show ability to down the best
company at a mile. He has done
so at six and seven furlongs.
Maybe he will prove more solid
this time at the mile, because he
now is a five-year-old, is a slightly
bigger horse than last summer,
and 9.4 shouldn’t stop him after
his latest success with 61b. more.
Then again the Villiers field is
certain to be much weaker than
the company he raced against in
last season’s Doncaster.
Penalties don’t stop two-year-
olds from repeating prior suc-
cesses. Despite the rain-sodden
track at Randwick, Jinks won
the Nursery Stakes with a 71b.
penalty that lifted her weight to
8.12. Sweet Apple, second, was
the only other penalised runner
in the event. Again, in the two-
year-old sprint for colts and
geldings Merry Borough, the
only penalised runner, made
light of his 8.12. Rain was so
thick during the running of his
race that it was difficult to pick
the leaders before the home-turn
was rounded.
M. V. Point, breeder and
owner of Royal Treasure, a
three-year-old Royal Empire
(Fr.) filly from Treasure Hoard,
has leased her to her trainer,
Bob Stuart, during her racing
career. Stuart has won races on
successive Saturdays, Sultan’s
Gulf having scored at Warwick
Farm a week earlier than Royal
/Treasure's Randwick win. The
heavy going at Randwick evi-
dently suited Royal Treasure:
she easily won the Novice Mile.
Clovelly Handicap winner at
Randwick, Julie Gai is a
country-owned mare trained by
Lou Burke at Randwick. She is
a five-year-old half-sister to De
La Salle, and is owned by that
mare’s owner, V. J. Byrnes.
De La Salle won the 1948
Epsom Handicap. Fossil, dam
of both mares, has produced
some mud-runners, and students
of breeding who remembered
that pointer profited by Julie
Gai’s win.
Randwick winner Crimson
Pirate looks a staying find ; on
successive Saturdays he has won
at 11 and 12 furlongs. In Satur-
day’s Trial Handicap win the son
of Contact (a Sydney Cup
winner) was ridden with judg-
ment by Jack Thompson. Crim-
son Pirate is on the limit, 7st., in
the A.J.C. Summer Cup, to be
run at Randwick on December
26, and the young stayer could
figure prominently in the finish,
given a vigorous horseman.
Atellor made his first race-
appearance when he finished
second to Merry Borough in
Randwick Juvenile Stakes, and
he might soon win. He was
confidently supported, but he
ran into a pretty solid colt.
Atellor is a brother to Tsajadyne.
He is also related to Civic Pride
and to the well-performed Pride
of Egypt. He is by Tsaoko (Fr.)
from Ajadyne by Ajax.
Golden Doubles, a likely
Melbourne three-year-old high-
light in the autumn, was one of
the bargains of the Randwick
1954 Easter yearling-sales, being
secured for 140gns. At his last
four starts he has won three
times and was third in Caulfield’s
Eclipse Stakes. Latest success
was in the Moonee Valley
Kinross Handicap, in which he
defeated older horses by half-a-
dozen lengths, starting a warm
favorite.
Lightly - raced Melbourne
three-year-old filly Radiant Blue
was among Saturday’s winners
at Moonee Valley, scoring her
initial success in runaway
fashion in the Albion Handicap,
restricted to fillies of that age.
It’s no great wonder she can
gallop: her family-lines include
Flight, St. Razzle and Sir
Simper. Her sire, Near Blue
(imp.), is by Nearco, while her
dam, Radiant Glow, is by St.
Magnus (imp.) from Luminane
by Chief Ruler (imp.) from
Illume (sister to Razzle Dazzle,
a winner of the New Zealand
Oaks) by Kilbroney (imp.).
Tournai (Fr.), a son of French
sire Tourbillon, was not raced,
and is one of the few of the
progeny of that famous sire to
be at the stud in Australia.
Tournai has not had many two-
year-old starters to date, but one
of them, Full Chime, raced by
Mrs. D. S. Whiteside and trained
at Mentone by W. C. Warke,
won the Second Pascoe Handi-
cap at Moonee Valley at 5 to 2.
It was Full Chime’s first start
“You clean that fish OUTSIDE!”
in public, but she was so
strongly fancied that her price
shortened from long double-
figure odds. Her dam, Ten
O’Clock, is a daughter of Man-
fred and Billenya by Burraba-
deen.
Easy winner of a Canter-
bury First Maiden Handicap,
Royal Romeo, is a Royal Em-
pire (Fr.) colt; bred on staying
lines, he could develop into a
useful middle - distance per-
former. He is from an im-
ported dam, Pursuit of Love, by
Foxhunter from Can Can by
Prestissino, and back in the
pedigree figures Spearmint, son
of Carbine.
Sea Sovereign, a winner of
the A.J.C. and the Q.T.C. St.
Legers, is a brother to Smooth
Stream, easy winner of the
Canterbury Second Maiden.
Smooth Stream was a costly
yearling at 3100gns., but he was
strongly supported, and maybe
quite a big margin of the first
cost was wiped off. He is by
Midstream (imp.) from Sidonia
(imp.) by Noble Star from
Sabrina by Colombo. Another
brother of Smooth Stream, Cal-
lide River, won races on Bris-
bane and Melbourne tracks.
Karendi, winner of 1954 Don-
caster, had few rivals in the
matter of looks; he was a par-
ticularly handsome individual.
A mile was his favorite distance.
Sent to the stud, he is located
at Nandillyan Heights, Molong
(N.S.W.), and has sired a few
foals that should be worth wait-
ing for.
* * *
From a Sydney campaign,
where he had one all-the-way
win, Halt returned to Mel-
bourne for an unlucky second
which he’s followed with four
wins on end, the last a sterling
effort from 36yds. on Friday
night. An awkward-looking
four-year-old chestnut gelding
(Brigade Command - Beautiful
Spring), he races with his neck
stretched almost as long as his
little body. On Friday he beat
last-start winner Peter Panda ;
the week before he beat Port
Logan, who won on Friday. It’s
a hard task for a horse to come
from 36yds. behind to win on
the small Showgrounds track;
but this fellow did it, rated
“10” and won by Byds. He’s
a lot tougher nut to crack than
he looks.
Sporting a hog-main and
looking as tough as they come,
another little-’un, Port Logan,
ran a gait of 2.9| for the 11
furlongs to beat Wairangi and
Explicit in the last on the Mel-
bourne programme, the Glebe
Handicap. A little bay, Port
Logan is by Logan Derby from
Port Underwood, a Bill B (imp.)
mare. Logan Derby was always
described as “tenacious”; they
said he’d run for a week. He’s
passed on some of the solid
qualities he inherited from his
sire, Globe Derby, to one of
his most tenacious sons. Port
Logan has more than once taken
good fields in Sydney by sur-
prise, holding the lead by what
looks mere determination.
Stablemate of Halt, and always
thought the class horse of the
pair, Explicit was beaten favorite
for the third consecutive week,
She may have been up too long,
In the q.. v ..s.A. Sheffield
Shield match Lindwall had S.A.
opener Harris l.b.w. for a
“duck” off the seventh ball of
his first over> Lindwall’s used
to that sort c f t hi ng . in Tests
he’s several times removed
jjutton in his first over, as well
as many another opener. In
England in 1953 Lindwall had
a remar kable such run: in his
first three county-matches he
g Q t a wicket first over each time
( m i d dle one of the trio, Hutton
—again), and in the third match
of that series, against Surrey, he
j ust m i sse d doing it in both
innings—in the second innings
he got Eric Bedser first ball of
his second over.
....
_ A . a .
Same score, different rate of
scoring. S.A., inc Lin ■
lunch-tune, 2-128 m lOSmin
l us ? tea next day
2 ‘ l2 ® 10 J ust
l° n S- /here.
exte n u a tmg circumstance ,
Queensland s worse start (2-9),
*<= ” eed consohdate, and
accurate S. . p
bowling to a tight field. On
the other hand S.A.’s fast scor-
in ,he main t 0
p n one tbe most Fer-
batsmen in Australia
f od f who will get runs or get
y ’ 6
ou *
The N.S.W. team for the
southern tour includes lan Craig,
in for the first time since the
end of the 1953-54 season; he
replaces Watson, having a lean
spell. Watson, who’s been corn-
pared with Hassett in appear-
ance and in batting ability, will
certainly return to first-class
cricket. One or two of the
younger men, Booth, Philpott,
are picked on latent ability, not
actual performance. The 18-
year-old batsman Norm O’Neill,
12th-man against S.A., stays in
the 12, and deserves at least one
tryout on tour.
S.A. Sheffield Shield skipper
Phil Ridings is the only Shield
cricketer still playing who played
in the competition before the
start of World War 11. His first
game was against Victoria (Dec.
30 to Jan. 3, 1938-39); he
played in three Shield matches
that year. Then, he was more a
bowler than a batsman; in his
post-war cricket he’s concen-
trated on his batting, and has
made some handy scores for
S.A. His best score in Shield
cricket is 180 not-out, and he’s
made nearly 4000 runs in all.
Keith Miller and lan Johnson
both began for Victoria in the
same year, 1939-40, the season
after Ridings began. Both
played every match for Victoria
that year, and it was clear that
Miller was a batting-star of the
future. Clem Hill, seeing Miller
hit a century against Grimmett,
tipped him to play for
Australia. Worth noting that
Miller didn’t bowl one ball for
Victoria that year. (Even in the
Victory Tests in England in
1945, Miller was thought of only
as a “change-bowler”!)
In 1938-39, also, a new batting-
star had appeared. He was Ken
Ridings, Phil’s younger brother,
and he opened for S.A. with R. S.
Whitington, now well known as
a cricket-writer, with Bradman
first wicket down. Several times
Bradman had to wait padded-up
a long while. Ken Ridings hit
a couple of centuries that year,
and was regarded as a certain
Test-player. But during the war,
a navigator in the R.A.A.F., he
was shot down over the North
Sea.
* * *
Young swimmer Lorraine
Crapp last week twice lowered
the Australian 220yds. freestyle
record. Firstly she cut I.4sec.
off, then two days later lopped-
off another 2sec —her best time
2min. 25.8 sec. Another Aus-
tralian women’s swimming-
record was also broken: 15-
year-old Beverley Bainbridge
clocked lmin. 21sec. for the
110yds. butterfly, to better both
junior and senior times.
* * *
For the first time in 35 years
Long Reef won the Killara
Shield, Des Lofthouse and Ken
Ley (Long Reef) defeating
Peter Heard and Noel Bartell
(N.S.W.) one up.


First-Class Care, Third-Class Facilities
Psychiatric Ward
By a FORMER PATIENT
<<t *ES,” said the expert at
\ J the Botanical Gardens,
\/ “always strike your
coleus and crotons in
clean, sharp river-sand, then,
when they’re started, you can
transplant ’em.” He looked up
from the bed where his cuttings
were on display and broke off,
“Lor’ love us, there ’e is again.”
At the end of the gardens
a pyjama’d figure was making a
desperate attempt to gain the
path which led to the roadway,
but a uniformed nurse, giving
close chase, seemed about to
catch up with him, and a khaki-
clad wardsman appeared as if
from nowhere and headed the
figure off.
With a despondent gesture the
old man allowed himself to be
led through the wicket-gate
which provided an exit from the
building at the end of the park.
The two people—man and
wife —to whom the gardener had
been explaining the technique
of plant-propagation had no
time to make any query.
Their companion appeared only
too willing to explain.
“That’s the ‘nutcracker suite,’
you know,” he said, pointing
with his pipe to the drab building
at the end of the gardens.
Noting the puzzled expression
on the face of the man, he
elucidated. “Bat-house. Loony-
bin. Used to be the reception-
house, but they’re getting
finicky these days, so they’re
polite and call it just ‘Ward
Thirty.’ But it’s still the ‘nut-
cracker suite’ to the boys around
here. Now and again some one
of ’em gets out, and then there’s
a rare old chase. Oughter keep
’em locked up all the time,” he
added “Blinkin’ loonies!”
An embarrassed look passed
between his companions, but he
took up the conversation where
he had left it prior to witnessing
the “escape,” and a pleasant
half-hour’s conversation
followed.
Later, he glanced at his watch.
“Have to strike a blow for the
council,” he remarked. “You
staying around here, mister?”
“Yes, I’m staying in Ward
Thirty” ...
I didn’t stay to see the
gardener’s discomfiture. Quickly
I walked through the park and
passed through the wicket-gate.
My wife came with me, and we
waited on the veranda until the
doctor came for the interview
for which my wife had travelled
over 200 miles. A cheery nurse
served us afternoon-tea and we
chatted cheerfully while we
waited. A half-hour later I was
called for an I.Q. test, and my
wife was asked to meet the
psychiatrist to whose care I had
voluntarily committed myself.
+ +
A week later I was on the
train, bound for home and a
new life . . .
It had started five years ago
with what my doctor called “an
anxiety neurosis.” “Nothing to
worry about, old chap—have a
holiday and a change of occupa-
tion and you’ll be 0.K.”
I had a holiday. I changed
my job. And 18 months later I
had another nervous breakdown.
“You’ve been hitting it rather
hard, old man. Too much work,
too much worry. Have a holi-
day and see how you feel when
you come back. I’ll give you
something to make you sleep.”
So I had another holiday —
alone, because there wasn’t so
much cash in the bank this
time; and I changed my job
again; and I always kept a
bottle of those insidious little
barbiturate-group tablets beside
me “to make me sleep.”
The job was one where I was
my own boss, could keep my
own hours, and things looked
good. My reputation as an
efficient administrative - officer
followed me out to the country,
and soon I found that I had
acquired a few secretaryships
and even a directorship. Night
work. Other people’s worries
as well as my own. A bad
season followed. The over-
draft wasn’t reduced, and once
again I found myself courting
that elusive healer sleep.
Worry mounted on worry,
magnified by a mind which was
not capable of dealing with the
problems on hand. One night
I reached for the bottle of
barbiturate tablets.
Two days later my doctor saw
me in hospital. He seemed
inclined to laugh the whole
matter off. “Just a temporary
hysteria, old chap,” he said.
“Have a holiday when you get
out of here and you’ll be your
own man again before you know
where you are.”
I had the holiday—only a
short one, this time, because
there just wasn’t the cash to
have a long one. My wife
carried on the farm as best she
could. And I wasn’t any better
when I returned. If anything,
I was worse.
It was then that I decided that
perhaps my own doctor didn’t
understand the case. Having no
money to call in a consultant, I
reported to the public hospital
and bluntly asked whether it
would be possible to see a
psychiatrist.
The hospital superintendent
was sympathetic. He listened
patiently to the lengthy story I
had to tell him. He asked a few
leading questions, mainly about
my childhood and war-service.
Then he told me that he would
require a day or so to study my
case, but would let me know
when he had made a decision.
“Frankly,” he said, “I think
that you’re like a man with a
broken leg. Someone gives him
a crutch, and when that wears
out, they give him another, and
another. But they don’t bother
to set the leg. We general
practitioners can give you the
crutch all the time, but it takes a
specialist to set the leg.”
A week later I was notified
that a bed had been reserved for
me in the psychiatric-ward of a
hospital 200 miles away. The
train-journey took eight hours,
and it was midnight before I
was finally admitted to Ward
30. I was tired-out, and certain
little formalities which may
have appeared strange had I
been more wide-awake passed
unnoticed. A wardsman
showed me to my bed in a
clean, gaunt ward, and, aided by
a very effective sedative, I fell
asleep.
My first impression when I
was awakened for the routine
“temp, and pulse” at 6 a.m. was
the fact that my locker was bare.
No tobacco, no razor, no
glasses—e ve n my false-teeth
were missing.
The wardsman explained:
“We get all sorts here, you know,
so we have to impound any-
thing that might be used for —
you know what,” he added
significantly. He looked at the
book he carried. “You look
0.K., though—if you go to the
office, Sister will give you your
tobacco.”
Between the “pulse and
temp.” at 6 a.m. to breakfast at
7.30 I had time to take stock of
the hospital. The building was
old almost archaic and the
narrow windows still had scars
on their frames where at some
recent date bars had been
removed. I left the ward and
passed through a small room
where three recumbent figures
slept heavily—l learned later that
they were in an insulin coma.
Facing their beds were two for-
bidding doors with a “judas”
built in each. The padded-cells.
Over an open veranda and
catwalk to the office, where a
pleasant Sister said, “Oh, you’re
Mr. Smith! I wasn’t on duty
when you were admitted last
night, but I suppose you want
your tobacco.” She went to a
table which resembled a tobac-
conist’s shop, selected my
“makings,” neatly marked with
my name, and handed them to
me. “You’ll see Doctor this
morning, and I do hope jou’ll
enjoy your stay here. Just drop
in to the office, or ask the nurse,
if there’s anything you want.”
Here was a contrast which I
was to encounter almost hourly
during my stay at Ward 30.
The pleasant, sympathetic atti-
tude of the staff, and the dismal,
almost “institutional” (in the
Charles Dickens style) grimness
of the hospital building.
+ +
Two-hundred yards away
stood one of Queensland’s most
modern hospitals'. Flower-beds
surrounded the approaches.
Chrome and glass adorned its
interior. Everything which
modern ingenuity could devise
had gone into its structure. But
the “psychos” were relegated to
what had once been the official
reception-house. No gardens.
No chrome. No bright paint.
Just drabness; ill-planned drab-
ness, but a drabness lightened
immeasurably by the superb
efficiency of the medical and
nursing staff, who never, from
the time one was officially
admitted, relaxed one pre-
cautionary regulation or gave a
patient any other idea than that
he was going to make a speedy
and permanent recovery.
“The Boss,” as he was affec-
tionately called by everyone,
interviewed me during the
morning. An excellent break-
fast, which would not have dis-
graced a tourist-hotel, had made
me feel less apprehensive, and a
quiet chat with this remarkable
man who listened so patiently,
drawing on his pipe, seemed to
bring a strange tranquillity.
He was a good listener, The
Boss. He asked only a few
questions, but took copious
notes.
“We’ll start treatment on
Monday,” he said finally. “Give
you something to make you
loosen up a bit, and then we’ll
find out just what is wrong.
Meanwhile, while you’re here,
just remember one thing: I’m
the one who does the worrying.
That’s what they pay me for.”
A quick, puckish smile, and
I knew that I was dismissed.
During the next couple of
days I became familiar with the
routine. There appeared to be
three standard treatments —
E.C.T. (electric shock therapy),
and shallow and deep insulin-
shock-therapy. The “deeps”
received their injections at
6 a.m., the “shallows” at 6.30,
and from the time the “deeps”
passed into their coma the little
ward which held the three beds
was strictly taboo to everybody.
As the ward was the com-
municating corridor between the
general ward, the day-room and
the veranda this caused some
inconvenience if we had a
“wanderer” (like the old chap
who got into the gardens), as the
veranda - gate was locked.
Patients on the veranda were
virtual prisoners, as wefe their
counterparts in the day-room,
until the glucose had been
administered at 9.30 and the
“deeps” recovered.
Morning-tea at 10 a.m., and
on Mondays, Wednesdays and
Fridays the occupational-
therapist visited. Games
accentuating the team-spirit and
requiring a certain amount of
individual co-ordination were
organised, and both men and
women patients joined in. By
11 a.m., when the games started,
the “deeps” and “shallows”
were fully recovered from their
shocks and joined lustily in the
exercise. The E.C.T. patients
apparently recovered from their
treatment within a half-hour of
its administration.
Before “going inside” I had
heard many terrifying (and
inaccurate) accounts of the
various “shock-treatments,” but
I can testify that, having seen
dozens of cases “coming out”
after the treatment had been
administered, not one com-
plained of any unpleasantness,
nor was any patient unwilling
to take treatment again.
My own treatment took the
form of “loosening-up” with
one of the “truth drugs” and
The Boss quickly pinpointed the
root-cause of my neurosis.
Problems developed between
the ages of six and 16 were un-
earthed and brought to light, to
be looked at with the mind of
an intelligent individual of 46.
After each treatment the various
difficulties were talked over
frankly with The Boss, and
quickly the situation began to
right itself. The day came when
I took my I.Q. and registered a
better-than-average score of 126.
The Boss appeared satisfied.
“You’ll be going home soon,”
he said. “You came here like a
man who had his car in bits
in his backyard, with no
instruction-book to guide him,
and only a bent screwdriver and
a broken spanner to work with.
You’ve got an instruction-book
now, and I think a pretty good
tool-kit —but the car’s still in
pieces. The rest is up to you.”
I came home, and I think that
I’m putting “the car” together
again pretty well. The problems
of finance, seasons, frustration
and whatnot are still there, but I
approach them with a clear
mind, unbefuddled by barbitur-
ates, and capable of dealing
with the normal problems of
life without going into a flat
spin. Sleep comes naturally,
and relaxation is easy. Three
months after entering Ward 30
I often wonder what the dickens
I ever worried about. But. . .
Back in Ward 30 there are
schizophrenics, alcoholics,
depressives, and every shade
and degree of the mentally ill,
drawn from a radius of 250
miles, being cared for by a
psychiatrist who is acknow-
ledged to be at the top of his
profession, ably assisted by a
staff the equal of which would
be hard to find in any hospital,
in buildings which would out-
date a Dickens novel, and
under conditions which would
disgrace any civilised community.
Such is the care administered
by the “Welfare State” that a
man with a boil on his backside
has more up-to-date and com-
fortable accommodation than
those who are mentally sick.
During my recovery period a
violent case was admitted at
midnight. As a relatively-well
patient, I was drafted (for one
night only) to the medical* ward
in the general hospital. A patient
in the “cells” with suicidal
tendencies took my bed (he had
to be sedated and watched
throughout the remainder of the
night). The violent case took
the “cell.”
I was amazed at the contrast
in accommodation between the
regular “medical” patients and
the “psychos.” Soft beds,
polished floors, glass-and-
chrome fittings, verandas over-
looking a bay view—all these
were available for the regular
patients, and I was somewhat
saddened when at 10 a.m. I had
to return to the old home across
the street.
+ +
I discussed this aspect with
the doctor, the ward-Sisters and
the wardsmen. The reply was
always the same: money is not
available. The whole of the
general hospital had been
rebuilt (and as each section had
been completed it had been
opened by a Cabinet Minister),
but the plans for Ward 30 were
the conversion of a disused
State school to allow an expan-
sion of available beds.
If money is not available from
Government funds (whether
Federal or State), from where
should it come?
I tallied some of the cases
during my stay, and found that
75 per cent, of the residents —
and many of them the “long-
term residents” —were victims of
alcoholism.
I would suggest that, con-
sidering the satisfactory balance-
sheets submitted to happy
shareholders in the breweries
and distilleries, a special “hospi-
tal levy” be imposed on these
commercial undertakings. A
mere' 1 per cent, of their net
profits would go a long way to
increasing the facilities available
for the treatment of the
mentally ill.
An analogy that occurred to
me was that a stay in Ward 30
was like receiving the food and
service of a luxury hotel in a
third-rate boardinghouse.
Only one who has been
“inside” can fully appreciate the
situation. Recovering patients,
seeking rest and quiet, disturbed
by the frenzied screams of the
occasional “violents” (violents
were usually transient visitors,
graduating to the mental-home
in the capital city as soon as
police arrangements could be
made); patients with a morbid
fear of “mental-homes” remain*
ing unsegregated from the more
serious cases, and having their
own recovery retarded by some
of the unavoidable “scenes”
they witness; a nurse and a
wardsman gamely trying to
juggle a 4001 b. drum of glucose
to pour the day’s ration, when
the provision of a “cradle” and
molasses-tap would have made
the job easy for one man; a
female epileptic taking a seizure
on the veranda used by both
men and women patients; a
“skitz” walking around in an
interminable hike, never speak-
ing to anyone, save to ask obedi-
ently to be locked up each night.
The loyalty, patience and
steadfast endurance of the staff
of the psychiatric-ward demands
that they be given at least the
same facilities to do their work
as are available to their counter-
parts in the medical, surgical,
obstetric and thoracic wards.
And, as statistics show that
one in every 12 Australians are,
sometime during their lives,
treated for mental disorders,
public necessity demands it, too.


Fcutti in the
Future
1 A!
At this stage of my American journey—home
will soon be on the horizon—these are some of the
impressions I have formed in my five months’ stay
in the U.S.A.
I sense many changes since my last visit five
years ago. For one thing, I believe the American
is readier to agree that his country’s role in world
leadership must be shared increasingly with other
nations.
I find that Churchill and Eden are liked, that
Britain’s ability and experience in world affairs
are now widely acknowledged, and her job in the
production of aircraft is greatly admired.
All of which points to a healthy strengthening
of the English-speaking bond in world affairs.
Most of the big American companies are
working like beavers on atomic research.
The whole country seems to recognise the
power that lies in atomic development in the hands
of private enterprise.
They refer to it as “the businessman’s atom,”
and claim that industrial organisations, by the
improvement of economic and social conditions
under atomic power, will do more than
Governments to usher in the atomic era.
In thinking of American life—financially,
economically and even personally—it usually gets
back to Velocity. And in commercial life the
Quantum Theory—the energy which the concentra-
tion of matter gives—is also very apparent. There
is an accent on amalgamations in big business.
American and Canadian industry is sensitive
to the need for increasing exports, or for setting
itself up in other countries.
It seems to me that the pattern of world
affairs will help Australia to attract more attention
from North American capital, because apart from
its own potential our country is a springboard to
the huge markets of Asia.
Leading American industrialists I have met
have shown an amazing knowledge of Australia—
and the greater their knowledge the firmer their
Faith in OUR Future.
// //(Zsfi^9
KITCHINGS’
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
■
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHINC
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARREBE
| No Pads —
I No Springs
The NBO-BABRERB
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARKKBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3a), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
DIGESTIVE 'TROUBLES
COLITIS, DIVERTICULITIS
TAKE CHERBA TABLETS
Specially prepared from an old
proven herbal recipe. For chronic
conditions. Postal note for 12/0 will
provide one month’s treatment.
ALLAN MURRAY PTY. LTD.,
26 Chase Road, Turramnrra,
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
IMPRESSIONS OF THE SOVIET
■pXCERPTS from the opinions
of 13 U.S. Congressmen
who lately visited the Soviet and
were Subsequently asked for
their impressions by “U.S. News
and World Report”:
* * *
Senator John J. Sparkman:
“A few things surprised me. One
was the fact that the people
seemed well fed. There had been
all kinds of stories published in
the United States about agri-
cultural shortages in Russia—
lack of adequate diet for the
people, and so forth.
“They do have a shortage of
meat there, and dairy-products.
They could use more protein in
their diet. But it certainly does
not show in the people. They
seem well fed. They are
extremely energetic. In stores,
the people were so eager to get
to the counters to look at the
few things that were available
that they just pushed you out of
the way if you moved about in
a slow, easy, gentle way.
“I had been somewhat im-
pressed with stories that there
were agricultural shortages in
Russia. Because of these various
statements, I thought that this
new era of sunshine and light
in Soviet policy might be grow-
ing out of economic difficulties.
Now, from what I saw and from
what I learned from our own
people in the Moscow Embassy,
I came away with the feeling that
>ve would be whistling in the
dark to hope for’ any economic
collapse on the part of Russia
any time soon.
“I saw one little streak of
hope in connection with farming
when we visited a collective-
farm. Every one of the 256
families there had an individual
plot of ground they could
work —their own. They could
grow what they wanted to.
“The eagerness with which the
people work these plots, and
take their produce to market to
sell, gives me a little hope that
the desire for free, competitive
enterprise is not entirely dead.
“And I get some hope out
of seeing the attendance at
church: Justice Douglas [U.S.
Supreme Court Justice William
O. Douglas] went to four dif-
ferent churches. There were
great crowds at all of them. The
spark of faith is still there. Time
may fan these sparks to life.”
* * *
Senator Milton R. Young:
“I came away with the definite
feeling that they [the Russians]
are stronger in the military
sense than Td been led to believe.
There is a feeling of strength,
as if they are more assured than
they used to be.
“I saw more good things in
Russia than I expected to find.
There is a much more friendly
spirit in the average person than
you would expect after years of
anti-American propaganda. And
the economy there is moving
ahead more than I’d thought—■'
especially industry. Socialist
experiments aren’t doing too
well in farming and business,
but industry impressed me
favorably, more than anything
else.”
* * *
Representative Patrick J. Hill-
ings: “The only real change is
that I saw that the Russian
people, in the big cities, are a
little better off than I expected.
But the people in the satellites
have a more difficult life than
I expected. In falking to them,
they always bring up their
unhappiness. They kept asking:
‘What are you going to do
about it?’ I had to tell them
there was very little we could
do. I’m sure we have millions
of friends in the satellites, and
they would help us if they could.
But I see no chance for an over-
throw unless there is a collapse
in the Kremlin, or something
like that.
“I’m convinced the Russians
are playing a great, international
confidence-game. They have not
changed their basic desire that
Communism some day will rule
the world —even if they smile
now. The new leaders —and I’m
convinced Russia is being run by
a committee —do not want war.
They do not feel prepared for it.”
* * *
Senator Allen J. Ellender:
“One thing I would like to
emphasise is this: That in my
humble judgment there is
entirely too much suspicion on
both sides of the Iron Curtain.
And I don’t know of any better
way to dispel that suspicion
than by having Americans go to
Russia and Russians to
America, on the same basis.
“In this farm co-operative,
for instance, before I left I was
speaking to about 15 people
there, and I looked at them and
I said, ‘You know, it’s a great
pity that you people couldn’t
come to our country and see
our own people. We’re some-
what like what you are. Our
babies cry just the same, chickens
cackle just the same, the roosters
crow the same way, the dogs
bark the same way.’ And I
said, ‘lf you were able to dispel
the suspicion that exists between
our two countries, I really and
truly believe that we could have
permanent peace.’ And with
that they spontaneously
clapped.”
* * *
Senator Harry C. Dworshak:
“I’d say the Russians are
stronger, a lot stronger, economi-
cally, than I’d thought. There
has been all this talk about how
backward and weak the Rus-
sians are, how they don’t have
anything to compare with us,
that they can’t stand up to us,
and so on.
“That simply isn’t so. Their
agricultural production may be
inadequate. But it’s a country
with great potentialities.”
* * *
Senator George W. Malone:
“Our [U.S.] military leaders
assume we may fight Russia
some day soon. If so, anything
we send them is strategic
material; it’s going to help
Russia —whether it’s shoes or
shirt-buttons.
“But, instead, we say it’s all
right to trade, not in guns but in
so-called ‘non-strategic’ goods.
And our allies are even letting
war-material slip into Russia
from factories that we financed
for them.
“Five years ago I wanted to
stop all trade with Russia, but
I was overruled. Now I say:
Let’s make sense. Trade or
don’t trade. One or the other.
But let’s not try to kid the
American people that we can do
both.”
* * *
Representative Harold D.
Cooley: “In Leningrad I was
amazed that you still find the
atmosphere of a slave-camp or
cemetery. Life there seems sad
and dreary—very few modern
improvements such as you’d
expect. In Moscow, on the
other hand, I was very much
impressed by their agricultural
fair. I really believe it is one
of the most magnificent the
world has ever seen. And con-
ditions generally in Moscow
seemed better by far than in
Leningrad.
“You can’t help but be sympa-
thetic when you see the sad situ-
ation they’re in—for instance,
watch women working like
stevedores, sawing logs, building
railroads and highways.”
* * *
Representative John M. Rob-
sion, Jnr.: “I came away from
Russia feeling a little more
optimistic on that score [the
chances of war]. Russia is a
tremendous country, but it is
relatively undeveloped. I got
the feeling, from the officials I
talked with, that it is going to
take all their energies, for years
to come, to develop their re-
sources and raise the standards
of living of their people. War
is the last thing they want.
“It’s kind of hard to say when
a Communist has had a change
of heart. You sometimes
wonder if Communists have
hearts. I would say this: Their
fundamental objectives have not
changed, but they want to gain
them without war.”
* * *
Representative Joe Holt:
“They [the Russians] would not
let us see any of the present or
the future, such as factories,
labor-meetings or schools. They
protested to me when I tried to
take slum pictures.
“They have a country of
extremes. It’s difficult to draw
real conclusions in such a short
time. We did see some military
equipment and airplanes, and
they seemed to be very good.
Their autos were very good,
what they have of them. They
do some things well, and some
things third- and fourth-class.”
* * *
■Representative John J.
Rhodes: “We were not allowed
to see anything in the way of a
factory. We were there two and
a half weeks. In Moscow we
asked to see the Stalin Auto
Works. We were told the
manager was too busy. Yet
[Representative] Pat Hillings,
three days later, was allowed to
see the Stalin Auto Works.
“In Tula, about 100 miles
south of Moscow, we asked the
local equivalent of our Mayor
if we could see a factory. That
was on Monday. He told us to
come back Tuesday. We did,
and he said: ‘ln every country
you have a holiday. Yours is
on Sunday. Ours, here, is on
Tuesday.’ But all the factories
seemed to be working in full
force that day.”
* * *
Senator J. Allen Frear, Jnr.:
“The general run of the Russian
people themselves don’t want
war —that is my impression. At
the same time, I think that the
Kremlin is preparing Russia
militarily for any eventuality,
and that’s one of the reasons
they are trying to import
machinery and other products
they need from the outside.
“I had a real chance to learn
something about Russia first
hand. They appeared to be less
aggressive than I’d somehow
expected. I came away feeling
more friendly toward them —but
more pessimistic about some of
the things people think are
going to happen overnight, such
as a real change of heart by the
Communist leaders.”
# * #
Senator William A. Purtell:
“I got the idea that the people
are being less conditioned for a
war now than before Stalin’s
death. The Russian people are
most anxious for peace. And I
don’t think the Russian leaders
want war. I think they want a
breathing-space to solve their
economic problems—and they
have lots of them.”
* * *
Senator Thomas C. Hennings:
“I did get several impressions—
from what I could see and what
well-informed people like the
Ambassador there [U.S. Ambas-
sador Charles E. Bohlen] and
American newsmen could tell
me.
“I was particularly struck by
the fact that the people seemed
to be intensely serious about
their work. I saw the utmost
energy and dedication to hard
work —no evidence of frivolity
or ‘take it easy.’
“I didn’t realise so much
building was going on as I saw
in Moscow and Leningrad—not
only Government buildings, but
also housing-projects. Then I
was interested to see women
working at all kinds of jobs—
directing traffic, driving trucks,
laying bricks. And there’s also
a mixture of old and new that
you find there. In a field you
see a big, modern tractor being


f Gillette Gos
to moke HIS
shaving a pleasure
He'll bless you for years fo come
when you choose one of ihese
superb Gillette Razor Sets. Not
only are you giving him the world's
finest shaving system, but you
give him that asset to modern
living —Superspeed Shaving! This
is the smooth, speedy combination
of the Gillette quick-action Razor
and the quick-feed Dispenser.
m
>
n
' % *
GiHetle
40'-
i
" %?illetie
*>
3
£ Gillette Set No. 66
The "Aristocrat" one-piece
Razor and 10-Blade Dispenser
in handsome velvet-lined,
lizard-grained case. 40/-.
ft Gillette Set No. 58
Smart red leatherette case
containing one-piece Razor
and 10 - Blade quick-feed
Dispenser. 27/6.
■ft Gillette Set No. 59
Streamlined case In rich dark
blue with one-piece Razor
and 10-Blade Dispenser. 20/-.
ft Gillette Set No. 54
Popular "Rocket Set" with
quick-action one-piece Razor
and 6-Blade Dispenser. 9/6.
ft Quick-feed Dispensers
holding Blue Gillette Blades,
attractively wrapped in
Christmas cellophane. 20
Blades, 7/6. 10 Blades, 3/9.
Other Gillette Sets range
from as low as 5/-.
©
©
SAY "MERRY CHRISTMAS" TO HIS FACE WITH
*
used alongside an old-fashioned
scythe.
“I can’t pass as an expert on
that [a change of heart in the
Kremlin]. All I can say is that
there’s no reason to believe
Russia has abandoned her
dedication to the Communist
philosophy. Nor have I any
reason to believe that what at
present seems to be an atmos-
phere of goodwill toward us in
the Soviet Union is necessarily
a permanent thing.”
Australian Wines
Commenting in London “New
Statesman” on “Empire wines”
—that is, wines from Africa and
Australia Raymond Postgate
considers that, on the whole,
“they are underestimated.”
One of the reasons for this,
he considers, is that the trade
is “living in the past”:
“Its eyes are still upon posters
which were so successful before
the First World War and in the
inter-war period. They showed
a flagon, recommended by a
silver-haired doctor to a young
mother (or an old lady) with
the words ‘A generous wine of
ferruginous character,’ and the
heavy difference in price due
to Empire Preference endorsed
the recommendation.
“You cannot talk 20 minutes
to the importers without realis-
ing that they are still remember-
ing those days when ferruginous
floods flowed down British
throats, and their propaganda is
still directed to calling them
back. But they won’t return;
the amount of Empire Prefer-
ence, being a fixed sum, now
does not even meet the extra
cost of the long haul from Syd-
ney or Cape Town.”
The importers are also old-
fashioned, Postgate adds, in “in-
sisting on using names to which
most wine-drinkers feel they are
not entitled”:
“Sauternes is a town, the
Moselle is & river, Chablis is a
town, Burgundy is a district;
and you can find them on the
map. It is wrong to try to annex
their names, and it is also foolish,
for by doing so the Empire wine-
makers invite a comparison in
which they are bound to be
defeated for however good
their wines are, they are neces-
sarily different wines.”
Commenting generally on Aus-
tralian wines, Postgate notes
that “Australians will tell you
which are their best vineyards
with pleasure ; only they won’t
let you have the wine. They
drink it themselves”:
“To get the fine Australian
table-wines (some of which have
as marked a bouquet as a
Chateauneuf du Pape) I have
been forced to import a cask
of claret and bottle it myself.
The most famous wine-growing
areas are the Hunter River in
N. S. Wales, Rutherglen in Vic-
toria, and in South Australia a
slab of districts to the east and
south of Adelaide.
“Individual names which, if
you see them, indicate bottles
which are worth buying include
St. Cora, Yalumba, Coonawarra,
Ewell, Kirkton, Cawarra and
Tahbilk. They are not common,
however; more frequent over
here are Stonyfell, Moyston,
Rinegolde and Quelltaler (white),
all of which I’ve found good.
The reds are usually too young
and need another year in bottle.
“It is easier, perhaps, to find
a satisfying Australian wine
among* the sherries. The distinc-
tive nutty taste of a true sherry
seems to come, in part at least,
from the flor, a mildew-like
growth that forms upon the sur-
face of the wine while it is in
cask ; the Australians have spent
a great deal of time and money
upon cultivating various strains
of flor and if you see the word
‘Flor’ upon a label you will at
least know that you are not buy-
ing the sort of colored and doc-
tored white wine which is too
often offered one as ‘sherry.’
You will also, if that is still of
any interest to you, be buying
the product of a democratic
society not based on either
apartheid or a Falange.
“Australian sherries, which
you can get over here, with a
little persistence, include Sep-
pelt’s Pale Dry Solero Flor,
Yalumba Flor Fino, Angove’s
Flor, Stonyfell Dry Flor, Mil-
dara and Dryad (which in Aus-
tralia is called Manzilla). All of
these are dry and all of them I
have tried myself and can recom-
mend. The dearer sherries are
DOGS OF WAR
—London “Daily Mail”
the better ones. That is not so
much a platitude as you may
think.”
Su ez
“The evacuation of the Canal
Zone ” London “Financial
Times” comments, is a mis-
leading expression because it
implies “a complete British with-
drawal from this vital area.”
Far from that, the paper
points out, the essential features
of “the world’s biggest military
base” will not only remain but
will be “modernised and
strengthened”:
“Most of them will continue
to be under British control, but
will be operated by British in-
dustry instead of the Army.
The permanent installations
of the base include power-
stations, water-filtration plants,
the port of Adabya, south of
Suez, ice-plants, miles and miles
of railway-lines and -sidings and
roads, gigantic ammunition- and
petrol-depots, telephone-systems,
radio-stations, airfields, build-
ings, camps and, finally, about
half-a-million tons of stores.
“Under the new agreement a
part of these installations will
remain under British civilian
control and a part is being
handed to the Egyptian Army for
upkeep and to be made available
to British forces in the event of
war. The vital and most valuable
installations are not being ‘moth-
balled.’ They will be controlled
and operated by British com-
panies formed for this purpose
and will continue to be the main
workshops and ,storage-centres
for the British forces in the
Middle East.”
The installations to remain
under British control are to be
operated by six “Suez Con-
tractor” companies—“non-profit-
making subsidiaries of the
British industries most directly
concerned”—under War Office
contracts.
The “Financial Times” lists
some of them:
“Suez Contractors (Ammuni-
tion), Ltd., which is a subsidiary
of 1.C.1. and will handle the
50,000 tons of ammunition stored
in the base; and Suez Con-
tractors (Engineers), Ltd., a
subsidiary of Vickers, \yhich will
operate the Tel El Kebir work-
shops for heavy armor and
weapons.
“Shell will handle the petrol-
and fuel-depots. Finally, the
Suez Contractors Management
Company will be responsible for
general co-ordirjation, liaison
with the Egyptian authorities,
labor, living-conditions and
welfare of the British employees
and their families.”
Various Voices
John Hollister (Director US.
International Co-operation Ad-
ministration) : “You can’t
generalise about the Far East.
We [U.S. officials] visited nine
different countries and you have
there nine different problems.
In one country there’s the
danger of outside aggression. In
another it’s internal subversion
and in still another it’s the prob-
lem of development of the
country for its people.”
Lord Kilmuir: “Man’s de-
structive inventiveness has had
the paradoxical result of secur-
ing a greater chance of peace.
We still face, nevertheless, the
possibility that some man at
some time in some place will
feel that he is in a position from
which he would rather have war
than retreat, and unleash chaos
on the world.”
British Foreign Secretary
Harold Macmillan: “The Ger-
man people will become more
and more frustrated by their en-
forced separation. They will be-
come more and more intolerant
of the Powers responsible for
this, more and more unbridled in
their national aspirations. We
shall be living in an explosive
situation.”


mm
-
wm
mmi
k. IJH
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Plough attached.
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series 11, Mark XII, li h.p. Villiers
Engine. Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teetb, 2
Hoeing blades, lOin. Tool-bar, 3 universal standards,
and power take-off.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit
for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe
Paspalum
guillotined 1
Rotary Hoe
Sawbench
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney. BUISII.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St., Melbourne. MU 8001.
Sth. Aus.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176/180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND Ltd., 115 York St.. Launceston.
W. Aus.: WESTERN MACHINERY Co. Pty. Ltd., 494 Murray St., Perth.
BA 2495.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
Lawnmowet
Cutter Bar
Other attachments include: —
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR
tyres, Spray-painting, etc.
TRAILER, DUSTER, DISC
GENERATOR for hole-boring,
for inflating
FURROWEB.
HARROWS,
lighting, etc.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State
Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS’
BOY” and ACCESSORIES.
Name
Address
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ORANGE FIELD DAY
T OOKING across from a rise
in the road on the town
side, over the house screened by
trees with its busy windmills
and over the dam, the machinery
camped in a sweeping wrinkle
of the hills was unexpectedly
gay. Reds and blues and greys
and silver of metal burning
back at the morning sun from
a field of solid green. Crude
color put into perspective by a
large setting.
One doesn’t get this impres-
sion of farm-machinery at the
big national shows. More im-
portant, one doesn’t see the
larger mobile machinery in
action at Sydney and Brisbane,
Melbourne and Adelaide and
Perth and Hobart. Here at
Orange, on the N.S.W. central
tablelands, and at other country
centres in Australia where
machinery field - days have
become annual affairs, one
does: the difference between
seeing a horse in a stall and
watching a horse galloping.
These machinery field-days
are comparatively new. The
one at Orange, for instance, is
only four years old. Hawkes-
bury Agricultural College started
the ball rolling in N.S.W. with
a machinery field-day at Rich-
mond which perished “for lack
of support.” Reasons given for
the lack of support are various
and contradictory.
The Orange field-day has
emerged as the biggest in the
eastern States, possibly in Aus-
tralia. It would be safe to say
that it is the most important
machinery field-day of its kind
in Australia, since the one at
Geraldton (W.A.), conducted
under the auspices of the W.A.
Department of Agriculture, is a
different sort of show. At
Geraldton the emphasis is
regional and educational; the
Orange field-day attracts a
wider range of machinery, equip-
ment, veterinary products,
fencing and the like, and is
more frankly a selling pro-
position.
Both kinds of field-day are
part of the contemporary land-
scene, and, as such, deserve
study. The Orange type of
field-day—of which there are
several in New South Wales —
has been highly publicised in the
State agricultural press, but
such write-ups are seldom
critical.
Like the photogenic rams and
bulls which appear with pic-
turesque regularity in stud-stock
ads. —all without a blemish or
fault of stance, and all speci-
mens of the same breed as alike
as peas in a pod—the stereo-
typed stock- and machinery-
supplements, with a sort of
family resemblance in editorial
and advertising content, give
only an approximate idea of
things as they are. A case in
point was the recent field-day at
Tamworth (N.S.W.), which was
not the success a casual reader
of a machinery - supplement
brought out for the occasion
might easily suppose.
In fairness to the agricultural-
papers, and the hardworking
journalists employed by them, it
must be said that covering
machinery field-days presents
some peculiar problems. At an
ordinary stock-show a lot of
elimination is done for the
reporter by the judges, and
owners of beasts which do not
win places don’t complain
because their rejected animals
aren’t mentioned in the paper.
The bulk of the exhibits thus got
rid of, the reporter can concen-
trate on the firsts, seconds and
thirds in each class, champions,
grand-champions and so on. He
has the judges’ comments to
guide him, adding such reason-
able comments as he thinks fit.
All this freedom and fairness
and tolerance is the result of a
tradition which one takes for
granted.
At machinery field-days there
are no judges, and there is as
yet no tradition. No awards,
but, in fact, deadly keen com-
petition for high stakes. Where
is the manufacturer who would
admit that his product is
inferior to anything in the same
line, anywhere?
The danger is that this atti-
tude of mind can stifle legitimate
criticism and, finally, all
comment,* a sort of suicidal
boomerang. An interesting
illustration of the trend cropped
up in the city press not long
back. In a news-item on car-
stealing, a police authority was
quoted as saying that more of a
certain make of car than any
other were reported stolen. A
later edition carried a careful
paragraph to the effect that the
estimate was based on the
greater numbers of that make
of car on the road.
But already there are signs of
a reaction against excessive com-
mercialism. The modern man
on the land is a sceptical fellow,
less likely to be dazzled by
machinery than he was a few
years back, and with more
technical knowledge. A general
tightening of money has modi-
fied his outlook, too.
Which raises a query about the
Orange field-day itself. In a
few years it has grown to a size
which gives it a national im-
portance —hence The Bulletin’s
interest in it. The question is
whether its status is temporary
or permanent.
Driving out from Orange on
Tuesday morning, the first day,
we passed a few cars going the
same way ; a tractor, a grader ;
and were passed by more cars.
The promise of a hot day, and
already the white dust was rising
from the road, stirred up by the
morning’s traffic. Dust, and the
warning sun, a summer contrast
to the green paddocks on either
side of the road, and the soft bit
of ground we shook our heads
over the evening before, when
we pulled in on our way to
Orange to inspect the site.
From the other side of the
Dividing Range, west to
Orange, we drove through green
country, broken only by occa-
sional patches of eucalypt forest
and red earth. West again
there was plenty of greenfeed.
The same story to the south.
As E. O. Schlunke put it in a
letter which would have reached
the Sydney office about the time
we were having lunch at Kurra-
jong: “We are having an
incredible season here in the
Riverina. One ought to be
making millions of tons of
meadow-hay; or buying stock
from drought areas and fatten-
ing them ; or making many miles
of extra-wide firebreaks all at
once.”
At Kurrajong we met Donald
McDonald and Jimmy Bancks.
Donald is director of a firm
which makes woolpresses (he
carried a working-model of one
on the back-seat of his car), and
had been a prisoner-of-war in
Germany. Jimmy is a nephew
of artist Jimmy Bancks, is a
sales-executive for a firm
specialising in insulating
material—of particular interest
at Orange for orchardists’ cool-
rooms —and is ex-R.A.A.F. A
pleasant roadside acquaintance
renewed at Orange.
Remembering the soft spot,
John Hindmarsh, the advertis-
ing bloke, parked his car on the
road. He got away with it that
time. But next day the gate-
keeper hunted us inside.
Coming closer, canvas and
pennants, silos and elevators,
tractors and human movement.
A smell of mown grass and
clover from the central stage, a
smooth green quadrangle with
a symmetrical pattern of posts
linked by looping wire, each
post fitted with twin amplifiers.
Looking up, a sort of clear green
lake, with a pattern of tents and
marquees and metal above it,
from which a few features stood
out: the spout of a Silorator,
near the Department of Agri-
culture and Soil Conservation
tent, like the proboscis of some
shy prehistoric monster ; the tall
announcer’s-stand; a shining
silver fuel-tank, up in the air.
As a background to this view,
a wooded hill.
Bordering each side, more
canvas, more machinery, people.
Something between a gun-park
and a carnival. In all, about
£l-million-worth of machinery
concentrated in a paddock of
Miss Carroll’s property, some
six miles from Orange on the
Bathurst road.
At this stage one didn’t notice
so many people. They were well
scattered around the exhibits.
But when the demonstrations
began the crowd that gathered
on the little mown field was sur-
prising. Where did they come
from? For all the world as
though someone had kicked over
an ant-heap. Various colored
ants, though, males in shirt-
sleeves and boiler-suits, lounge-
suits and sports-clothes; the
ladies in all the colors of the
rainbow, little ones hopping and
skipping. Big ones hopping and
skipping, too, when a tractor,
turning suddenly, and unnoticed
in the sea of bodies while they
stared thoughtfully at the one
that had just gone by, nearly
trod on their toes. For all their
activity, none of them at all
angry.
Inside the fence beside the
road the long row of cars was
growing. Plenty of room for
cars —30 acres of parking-space.
More cars turning in, being
waved to their positions. Nearer
at hand, down the slope a bit,
a couple of trucks were parked
companionably under a tree,
like two old draught-horses
dozing together in the shade: big
trucks; line of small cars.
Although one could only take in
this perspective from over near
the marquee, where the Orange
Torchbearers for Legacy ladies
were doing a brisk trade with
cups of tea. Later in the day
they sold mountains of sand-
wiches and a very fine line of
turkey-rolls; and, of course, all
day, gallons of tea.
Cars and trucks kept moving
backwards and forwards from
the main demonstration area
down to the bottom-gate, by-
passing the parking-area. Offi-
cials, or exhibitors, presumably.
Occasionally one of these
bogged in the place we had pru-
dently noted, and was promptly
rescued. If it rained, everyone
agreed, there would be a fine old
to-do getting out... As the day
wore on, and conversation
flagged, this comment became
more and more useful.
Over on the demonstration
area the mouldboard-ploughs
opened the programme, slicing
and turning the smooth green
surface into brown furrows. The
beginning of an organised attack
that sliced and harrowed and
ripped and scratched and
tumbled the soil in a thoroughly
efficient manner.
The mouldboard - ploughs,
drawn by tractors, went through
their paces at half-minute
intervals. Then the disk-ploughs;
then, in succession, tyne-culti-
vators, disk-cultivators, disk-
harrows, tyne-harrows, rotary-
hoes, superphosphate-spreaders,
seeding- and pasture-imple-
ments ; then lunch.
Over at the Legacy marquee
the demand for turkey-rolls was
brisk indeed; and for tea; a
few yards away, at another
stand, other Legacy ladies sold
bottles of soft-drink.
It was hot, and there were
flies. Anyone who doesn’t bar-
gain for heat and flies on such
occasions had best keep away
from field-days—in fact, from
the Australian countryside at
this time of the year. The Legacy
ladies coped with heat and cus-
tomers cheerfully, and everyone
ignored the flies. The only thing


DEAN FARM TIPPER
The Farm Trailer with the Twin Wheel that
DOES NOT BOG
Price: £155
2 TON CAPACITY
Single 650
x 16 tyres
and tubes.
Q
m
11 Ton
Capacity
Prices
£127/10/-
OTHER MODELS AVAILABLE
1- Carryall £95
3- Flat Top £165
2- Lowloader £155
4- Wheel Flat Top £2OO
Single-Horse Float £125
Brakes on all models, £25 extra.
All prices include tyres and tubes.
Manufactured by—
F. E. DEAN
'an?
17 Ascot Road, Bowral. Phone: 444
“Huff Supreme”
UNIVERSAL BALE ELEVATOR
• THIS LOADER WILL LOAD BALED HAY OR
BAGS OF ANY PRODUCE
Easily attached, and can
be hauled by either
TRACTOR, TRUCK or
TRAILER.
The machine is easily
handled and wheeled by
one man.
The height of the eleva-
tor is adjustable to the
convenience of the
operator on the truck.
The delivery is raised
or lowered to suit
whatever layer of
bales is being
loaded.
m
i
§
See your local agent or write today for all details
Obtainable from:
WM. HAUGHTON & CO. LTD.
24 JAMISON STREET, SYDNEY
and in All Capital Cities
Phone 8U4471 Telegrams: “Haughtonia”
A MODERN
SANITARY
For all unsewered areas
l
m
m
Mi
mffr-.
%
it ,v '
|Tf
ea
Even if you live in an unsewered area where there is no water supply,
you can still enjoy modern sanitation.
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. No more
unpleasant emptying! Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained
sanitary system that chemically transforms sewerage into a sterile
solution. This passes automatically to an underground sump and is
absorbed into the soil.
GUARANTEED. Strongly constructed with all-over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install—write now for free illus-
trated pamphlet. Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
‘DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St., The Valley,
Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William Street, Adelaide.
W.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (W.A.), ,349 William St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also Launceston,
Tasmania.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
N.Z.: Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
N. Guinea: Global Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port Moresby.
»
m |
'4
S*'
mm
l m
■i .
mat
For particulars of this
Heavy-duty cam-action Stump Jump
Chisel Plow
contact the Manufacturers
Rodda Implements Pty., Ltd.
70 Fyans St., South Geelong, Victoria
to do in the circumstances. The
only possible way of enjoying a
picnic.
By this time the car-park
down by the fence had grown
away "from it; hundreds of
windows flashing light back to
the sun. Quite pleasant, but hot,
standing on the rim of the
crowd of lunch-seekers, watch-
ing a plane wheeling ; watching
the wind rippling the tall, green
stand of pasture below the last
line of tents —after the lunch-
break the mowers and rakes and
forage-harvesters would be busy
there, and over on the far left.
The boys of nine or ten who
had been playing around with
some irrigation-equipment by
the dam, expertly inspecting
motors and turning wheels in
relays, decided dams were meant
to be swum in, anyway, and
swam. A girl with flaxen pig-
tails of about the age
wandered down that way and
presently came back up the
grassy slope, fair plaits tossing,
looking enormously shocked
and superior.
On the rim of the, slope a
mole-plough had been laying
polythene piping, introduced in
Australia for the first time by
1.C.1.A.N.Z. at last year’s Orange
field-day. This year the Ford
people handled the demonstra-
tion, with Mr. Karl Sorenson, of
1.C.1.A.N.Z. plastics division, as
controlling expert. Several big
concerns are now manufacturing
polythene piping.
The agency system somewhat
complicates the picture of a field-
day. With livestock, everything
is comparatively simple. A
bull is bred by X and exhibited
by Y; or bred and exhibited by
X. But a machine, or a chemical,
or a prefabricated shed, may be
originally manufactured by A,
manufactured under licence or
imported by B, distributed on a
national franchise by C, and in
States by several other initials:
at Orange, for instance, B, C and
D, as well as the local agent, may
all take an interest in the demon-
stration.
The Royal Garage (owner
L. H. Rochester) has been active
in the motor-trade in Orange and .
district for 22 years. The Royal
Garage handles the Ferguson
system.
Seven years ago British Farm
Equipment Pty., Ltd., introduced
the first Ferguson tractor to
N.S.W. Since then the firm has
delivered over 13,000 tractors.
There is a staff of over 40 field-
men and a dealer-organisation
of about 100. The Ferguson
“circus” is, of course, a feature
of the organisation. It was at
Orange in force.
H. Lapham, the International
Harvester Co.’s dealer, has a
general-engineering shop and
has been in business in Orange
and district for 30 years. He has
been on the Orange field-day
committee from the beginning ;
chairman of The Cherry Blossom
car-racing committee.
Pilbeam and Co., of Orange,
displayed the Ronaldson-Tippett
lines of petrol-, kerosene- and
diesel-engines, electric - lighting
and shearing- and spraying-
plant, wool-presses, power-saws
and the like; including the
Turbo Mist orchard-spray. Pitt,
Son and Badgery were in the
orchard-spraying business, too,
with their Atamist; the Teagle
fertiliser - broadcaster was
another Pitt, Son and Badgery
line on parade.
Wilcox Mofflin, apart from
their weed-control products, had
a fire-fighting unit and a low-
volume boom-spray. The Daken
Corporation (incorporated in
1951 with the idea of market-
ing in N.S.W. lines handled by
the 100-year-old firm of Vic-
torian agricultural merchants,
Welch Perrin) had a boom-jet,
a seeder, a bracken-slasher and
strip-grazing equipment.
Moffat-Virtue, of course, with
shearing-plant. Back in 1891
John Moffat and William Virtue,
both from Glasgow, after
knocking around in Queensland,
started their shearing-machinery
business in N.S.W. Now the
firm handles a variety of engines,
lighting-, jetting-, pumping- and
spray-plant, milking-machines,
fire-fighting equipment.
Coopers, the sheep-dip and
veterinary-products people, and
Moffat-Virtue gave a joint
demonstration of jetting, using
M. Senior and Roller jetters
and Coopers’ latest formulation
of dieldrin, a 20 per cent, con-
centration which works out, we
were told, at 1 pint-bottle to 100
gallons of solution —enough for
500 sheep. Reckoned to give
protection from crutch-strike for
12 weeks or so.
Last year, We heard, 16,800
sheep were jetted with the solu-
tion on one property; after 14
weeks only 20 cases of strike
were found.
Baltic Simplex demonstrated a
very wide range of products.
Dairyfarm machinery, haymak-
ing machinery, spray-irrigation
equipment, hammer-mills, hay-
balers, broadcasters . . . Too
many to be catalogued comfort-
ably, as was the case with some
other big concerns.
Jorgen Pederson, with his son
(the present managing-director
and chairman of directors),
started a modest dairy-machinery
business in 1906. In 1946 the
firm took over the business of
T. Robinson and Co., estab-
lished in Victoria in 1854, and
this year bought out another
Victorian agricultural-machinery
business, Cliff and Bunting Pty.,
Ltd., which had been estab-
lished for over 80 years.
The Orange Producers Rural
Co-op. Society is one of the
most progressive organisations
of its kind anywhere, with many
interests. Among its exhibits
was a range of Clyde Sales Pty.,
Ltd. (the selling subsidiary of
Clyde Industries, Ltd.), imple-
me nts, including a new forage-
harvester, the Silorator, an
engaging monster with a long
can vas neck, which can cut hay,
pick it U p, chaff it and load it
on a trailer ; and do other re-
ma rkable things. Said to be
able to deal efficiently with
crops which are not amenable
to the normal reciprocating
cutter-bar, such as overlush
cocksfoot which has laid.
Up on the hill, near the
Orange Co-op.’s stand, and
not far from the Fordson
caravanserai, New Holland
(Australasia) Pty., Ltd., had an
interesting display. Parent-
company in the U.S.A. is a sub-
sidiary of the Sperry Rand Cor-
poration with a working capital
of a (U.S.) billion dollars. New
Holland (Australasia) Pty., Ltd.,
was formed in April this year,
when the parent - company
merged with the Doring Group.
Head-office is at Dandenong
{Continued on next page )


No. 3 of a series depicting the part " Cyclone ” plays in the Australian way of life.
9S
'-X
m
V
imeemourn
V.
/
7
'Zfx
9T
"7a
55
1
%
1
03
H
53
Australia rides
on the Sheep’s back
For almost a century the wool clip has
been the mainstay of Australia’s financial
security.
For over half of this century products of
the Cyclone Co. of Australia Ltd. have
materially assisted the pastoralist in pro-
ducing the finest wool in the world. To-
day “Cyclone” Shearing Sheds, “Ring-
lock” Sheep Fences and Tubular Steel
Sheepyard Panels are basic equipment
for modern sheep stations.
“Cyclone” research into primary indus-
trial needs is matched by the record of
Cyclone Company in the production of
chainwire, wrought iron and tubular steel
products for building, the home and
secondary industries.
“Cyclone” factories have been established
throughout Australia for on-the-spot
attention to particular problems and eco-
nomical distribution.
clone
Every day in so
many ways "Cyclone"
serves Australia
Genuine “Cyclone” products are made only by CYCLONE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD. Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Townsville.
(Vic.), with branches in N.S.W.
(at Orange), Queensland and
South Australia.
A long skip down the slope
to where Cyclone had a full
range of tubular-steel gates—
from hand-gates to big ones—
wool-bin partitions, wool-rolling
tables, wool-baskets, dairy-bales,
crushes, milk-room equipment,
prefabricated sheepyard panels,
a section of a prefabricated hay-
shed and Ringlock prefabricated
fencing ... J
The company is over 50 years
old, and now has complete
manufacturing and sales
organisations in Townsville,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth and Hobart. A
new factory has just been
finished at Brisbane, another is
nearing completion in Hobart,
the Woodville factory in South
Australia is one of the most
modern in the Southern Hemis-
phere, and in Sydney the com-
pany is building another factory
on 35 acres at Granville, finding
the present one, completed in
1938, a bit small for their needs.
Western Stores and Edgleys,
Ltd., Orange, with a Lysaght
1000-bushel grain-silo set up
where you could hardly miss it;
mounted on an earth-ring and
being filled with a vertical auger ;
sheep self-feeders.
A.S.P.’s scaffoldings of pre-
fabricated steel: Australian
Steel Prefabrications has been
established some five years,
specialising in agricultural and
industrial buildings. Howard
Rotary Hoes; Commonwealth
Industrial Gases giving a
demonstration of welding under
water; saddles and shooting-
sticks all in a row; a Winch-
combe Carson man performing
a post-mortem on a sheep, scrap-
ing membrane with a knife,
pointing out barbers’-pole
worm, in an aura of flies . . .
The cars are encroaching on
the reserve of the two trucks
under the tree, and the crowd
is noticeably thicker around the
working machines. After lunch
the chisel-ploughs and rippers
have a go, lining up behind
their chariots, several abreast.
From the point of view of
demonstration the tractors have
the best of it at a field-day—
the best chance of being seen.
All the big names in tractors are
here.
Men walk behind the imple-
ments, stooping, now and then,
to test the passage of the tynes
in the soil with fingers. It is
very hot. And here, in the heat
of the day and crowd, one gets
a better idea of the people—
who they are, what they do.
Earlier in the day there seemed
to be a majority of men in
American-style summer clothes,
walking around with sheets of
memos, augmented by a fair
sprinkling of white cloth hats or
caps, white boiler-suits. Now
it is the other way round, the
salesmen and technicians are in
the minority.
Mowers and rotary - hoes,
rakes, balers, forage-harvesters;
balers, bale-loaders and stackers,
fire-fighting equipment, irriga-
tion-equipment ; a demonstra-
tion of aerial spraying on a
near-by paddock. Two planes—
a Cessna and a Tiger Moth—
flashed around all afternoon.
The Tiger Moth landed near the
dam, and was immediately
covered by boys, who patted it
gently and exchanged highly
technical comment. The Cessna
spread lcwt. of super, to the
acre, flying low, the stuff shak-
ing loose behind it like clouds
of flour.
Low - volume weed-sprayers,
orchard-sprayers, earthmoving.
The crowd was estimated to
be 8000 on the Tuesday: a tidy
roll-up. Wednesday was largely
given up to individual demon-
strations—sale-day.
On Tuesday night the official
“ You're a naughty girl, Mildred—you haven't laid
an egg for two days.”
dinner was held at the Memorial
Hall. It cost 255. a head, there
was poultry and beer, there were
too many speeches. But here,
out of the sun, one could sum-
up one’s impressions of the day.
And, in a way, the official dinner
summed-up the field-day. One
aspect of it, anyway: the im-
pression one had of a some-
what awkward growth, of an
uneasy balance.
The field-day is sponsored by
the Orange branch of the
Graziers’ Association. The chair-
man of the committee, Mr. R. A.
Crossing, is a grazier. There is
no profit from the field-day so
far as the committee is con-
cerned —they budget to break
even, and any slight profit goes
to Legacy. Therefore, there is
no permanent staff, although
there is an organising-secretary,
Mr. W. J. Clark. No charge is
made for admission.
What has been done, in these
circumstances, is rather amazing.
But the 1955 field-day, which
was a success, despite all sorts
of signs and portents in advance
that it would be a failure, now
seems to be getting too big to
handle. It was my impression
that the field-day will either
grow mightily in the next few
years or collapse dramatically.
The alternative would seem


Missing Friends
WATSON.—WiII any person knowing the
whereabouts of two brothers who left
Tanfield, Co. Durham, 1913, please com-
municate with MRS. J. PICKARD, 7
Bedford Avenue, Barley Mow, Birtley, Co.
Durham, who is the daughter of
WILLIAM WATSON.
ALBERT THOMAS HARMAN
ALBERT THOMAS HARMAN, formerly
of Tauranga, New Zealand, or anyone
knowings his whereabouts, is asked to com-
municate with COONEY, JAMIESON,
LEES & MORGAN, Solicitors, Tauranga,
New Zealand, regarding his late father’s
estate.
... OrnGi
%
P
m
■ "
m
i-4 ' '
«
m
mm
'4
m
I
' m
• V-
m
I
•.
I is
$
‘V
ONLY FERGUSON GIVES YOU..
ALL THESE ADVANTAGES !
PETROL, KERO, & DIESEL MODELS
• Penetration without excess weight.
• Fingertip fir Automatic Draft Control.
• Traction without built-in weight.
• Automatic protection against hid-
den obstructions.
• Keeps the front-end down.
9 Quick raising & lowering of imple-
ments.
You are years ahead when you Farm with Ferguson
BRITISH FARM EQUIPMENT
PTY.
LTD.
BRITISH TARM EQUIPMENT PTY. ITO
Please send me, free, a copy of Ihe new 12-page cata-
logue covering the full Ferguson Tractor range.
A MEMBER COMPANY OF THE STANDARD MOTOR PRODUCTS CROUP
VICTORIA
568-576 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
TELEGRAMS: "BRITFARM." PHONE: FJ 1181
NEW SOUTH WALES
602-612 BOTANY ROAD, ALEXANDRIA
TELEGRAMS: "BRITFARM." PHONE: MU 3901
PETROL, KERO, & DIESEL MODELS
FS/2012/10.4
to be to turn it over to the
people who provide the spec-
tacle, the machinery-manufac-
turers and -distributors. That,
in my opinion, wouldn’t do.
Through local agents on the
field-day committee these in-
terests are already represented,
but once this representation be-
came non-local it is difficult to
see how the arrangement would
work. For one thing, there are
practical difficulties of com-
munication ; for another, there
is a likelihood of a clash of
interests and personalities at
the top, or near to it. The
success of the Orange, field-day
so far has been due in large
measure to the strength of the
local control, and to the fact
that men with the balance of
power in their hands are inde-
pendent.
That, at least, is my opinion:
based, admittedly, on a brief
acquaintance. But it seems to
tally with local opinion and the
opinion of some of the
machinery-men. These, in the
main, are the smaller men, who
are inclined to be sceptical of
the good intentions of their big
brothers in the industry. They
think they get a fair go as things
are, but they also think there is
bound to be a change. They
point out that the really big
shows are quite capable of
putting on field-days of their
own—in fact, do —and why on
earth should they invite the
little fellows to join them?
Here is an interesting paradox.
The “little men” are not so very
negligible, in terms of personal
wealth. They are men who work
for themselves, managing-direc-
tors of companies in varying
stages of evolution. The repre-
sentatives of the bigger concerns
whom one meets are employees.
The future of the Orange field-
day seems to rest with Orange.
J. F.
"Navua and Nevallan"
I could be very flattered
by R. H. Webster’s com-
parison of Nevallan and Navua
(B. 2/ll/’55), except for the
fact that he has not done justice
to Navua and he has never seen
Nevallan. [Both properties are
in the County of Cumberland,
N.S.W.]
When he suggests that the
good start of the Keyline (Re-
search) is due as
much to my energy and persis-
tence as to acceptance of Key-
line beliefs, he is reflecting on
the intelligence of the leading
scientists, agriculturists, busi-
nessmen, the banker and the two
ladies who constitute the Key-
line (Research) Foundation
Trustees.
In fact, I wonder what the
point is in the whole comparison.
For instance, he should have said
that when the present owner pur-
chased Navua it was one of the
most expensively developed stud-
properties in the Commonwealth,
situated at the junction of the
Hawkesbury and the Grose
Rivers with limitless water for
irrigation. On the other hand,
when I purchased Nevallan, it
was waste land, sparsely covered
with the suckers that resulted
from wooding-out the area
about 40 years previously, no
valleys, only gullies, little or no
soil, with plenty of shale and
sandstone rubble, no fences,
buildings or water.
The area of poor land that he
speaks of on Navua was sold by
the present owner shortly after
he acquired the property. It lies
away from the river, and it was
evidently considered too poor for
development. But the poorest
acre would have been better than
Nevallan’s best of three years
ago.
So much for his statement on
Navua country “much of which
is identical with Nevallan.”
When your correspondent sug-
gests that the Keyline field-,
officers visit Navua, I have no
doubt that they would enjoy
seeing the property, but the
method of spreading water by
contour-drains was used on
Yobarnie many years before Mr.
Hill purchased Navua and is con-
sidered by no measure the best
means.
These irrigated pastures on
Navua look excellent from where
I see them, but there would not
be ‘an acre of rain-pasture on
the whole of Navua better than
the present rain-pastures on
Nevallan. The pastures are
maintained on Navua by con-
tinuous pumping from the un-
limited supply of water from the
Grose River, and I have no
doubt that Mr. Hill is a big rural
user of electricity and the best
customer of the Hawkesbury
Development Society that sup-
plies it.
Your correspondent mentions
that Navua is a payable stud.
He should know that there are
payable studs all over Australia.
When your correspondent says
that the two properties have one
thing in common —an enormous
amount of money has been spent
on both —he becomes even more
misleading than in his earlier
comparisons. Navua, as it is
today, following work done by
previous owners, the late Sir
Archibald Howie and the late
Mr. Stan Crick, and then the
further expenditure incurred by
Mr. Hill with bulldozer work,
pipeline-laying, and numerous
drains, must represent an out-
lay on improvements of well
over £3OO per acre, whereas the
development at Nevallan has
been extremely economical.
Also, when he says that I am
an engineer, he completely dis-
disregards the possibility that I
may have learned a little about
agriculture from my 11 years of
experience and experimentation.
I am only too happy to bow to
Mr. Hill’s superior knowledge of
stock, and I also think that he
and all other farmers profit by
engineering knowledge.
None of this is intended in any
way as criticism of Mr. Hill. A
reply is necessary because of the
unfortunate comparison of the
two properties.
Mr. Hill is to be congratulated
on his work on his property,
and I wish him success and
enjoyment of Navua.
P. A. Yeomans.
I can see no point whatever in
R. H. Webster’s comparison of
Navua and Nevallan.
That Navua is an efficient
stud-farm is not questioned, but
there are other stock-farms as
efficient. .
Mr. Webster refers in awed
italics to one Navua Friesian
producing almost a ton of milk
a month. There are at least five
Friesians in my own herd pro-
ducing as much as this right now
(Continued on next page )
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(20/11/’55)
The Single cycle continues to exert considerable
influence on the seasonal trend, and in this case good
general rains are likely throughout the whole of N.S.W.
during December. Victoria and South Australia should also
receive good rains during December.
Moderately good rain should occur in a large part of
the Western division of Queensland during December, but
varying from light to moderate and below average in the
coastal areas. However, the wet season should commence
in January, with attendant heavy rains and floods.
In Western Australia good falls are likely in the Kim-
berley*, East Gascoyne and the goldfields area; mainly light
elsewhere, but above average in the vicinity of Perth.
Excessive temperatures should predominate during
December, with heat-wave conditions in most States just
prior to Christmas.
LENNOX WALKER.


7 A>-
\m?
'ftrri
— 1 ' * 4—^gSraffEgg;w*^*^*?*' '*
any Plan, any Layout,
Single or Two-storey
to your design
Plan with
BOWAS
for-
★ Homesteads
★ Country
Cottages
★ Managers'
Residences
★ Overseers'
Quarters
★ Shearers and
Station
Accommoda-
tion Buildings
Bowas homesteads and country cottages
are of good appearance and are solid,
permanent structures unaffected by white
ants or dry rot.
Bowas buildings are easily erected with
the simplicity of timber frame construc-
tion—yet have the strength and durability
of steel, due to the patented Bowas steel-
wood-steel structural member of heavy
gauge steel and dressed cypress.
These members are precision cut for ease
of assembly by bolting— but all walls, both
inside and out, flooring and roofing are
nailed, on as in timber frame construction.
Plan for a Bowas better-looking, sounder,
easier-to-build homestead or cottage —our
architects will design any plan, single or
two-storey, to meet your wishes.
BOWAS CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
Manufacturers of the famous Sidney Williams Steel-Fraim Buildings
Williams Parade (Off Constitution Rd.), Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. LM5204, LM7886
In Qld.: 108 Colchester St., South Brisbane. J 4833
A Completely Self-Contained Unit
for EVERY Woodworking Job!
The basic Model “C” Home Work-
shop is ideal for all woodworking
jobs . . .
Shown is the Model “C” with
auxiliary head and Jig Saw
attachments fitted.
THE NEW MODEL "C"
HERBERT HOME
WORKSHOP
7 Power Tools in one For Industrial or Home Use
Ball-bearing equipped,
and of robust construc-
tion, it is the most
versatile machine ob-
tainable. You’ll save
money you can
EARN money too! —
with the new Model
“C.”
* Obtainable on Low
Deposit and Easy
Terms from most
Hardware Stores.
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY, TO:
A. E. HERBERT PTY. LTD.
7-9 Birmingham Street,
ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Please forward particulars of the
HERBERT Home Workshop
NAME
ADDRESS
Bulletin.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
FOR CHRISTMAS GIFT-SUBSCRIPTIONS
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
months’ gift-subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly, as from the first issue after Christmas,
TO:
Address
FROM:
Address
Special hand-colored Australian Christmas Card
announcing my gift to be signed as from
(NOTE: These cards will be despatched to reach their destinations
about one week before Christmas , unless a definite date is reQiiested .)
12 months £l/16/-; 6 months 18/6; 3 months 9/6.
These prices include postage and apply whether the subscription is
paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent in Australia or NX.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
off non-irrigated pasture, and
I’m not claiming to. be very
efficient. {Mr. Schoeffel writes
from Cotswold Farm, Menzies
Creek, Vic.]
As far as 1 I know, Mr. Yeo-
mans doesn’t profess to be a
stock-expert. His Keyline Plan
is simply a better way of improv-
ing sloping land by tillage than
any that has been previously
proposed. It is also a cheaper
and quicker method and is very
widely applicable.
Mr. Webster says that an
enormous amount of money has
been spent on both properties,
but I think that he has been mis-
led by the “frills” at Nevallan —
the attractions that are not an
integral part of the Keyline Plan,
like the nice home and some of
the dams —because the Keyline
Plan is essentially a very busi-
nesslike way of achieving a
result.
If Mr. Yeomans does send
experts out to advise people, it
will be on how to apply Keyline
principles to their land, not on
how to breed or manage Friesian
cattle or Berkshire pigs.
The fact that Navua has some
nice pastures by County of
Cumberland standards, and was
developed without Keyline culti-
vation, has no significance.
Navua has been a show-place
for some 25 years, and was
developed by a succession of
wealthy owners.
Now, if the present owner of
Navua had bought an adjoining
paddock of undeveloped shaly
bush, and had in three years
produced good pasture on this
by the “archaic” methods and
sparing use of super, described
by Mr. Webster, then there
would have been some point to
the comparison.
It seems quite compatible to
me that the Nevallan Keyline ex-
perts should go ahead and
advise us how to overcome the
limiting factors of irregular rain-
fall and high run-off, and how to
assist the processes of Nature to
develop a healthy and more
fertile soil, while experts like
Mr. C. K. Hill of Navua advise
us how to breed and manage our
stock.
K. G. SCHOEFFEL.
Erosion in Orchards
“Mackay”': N.S.W. Soil Con-
servationist J. J. Huston, while
making no bones about the diffi-
culties of solving the problem of
soil-erosion on orchards, gives
some useful advice on how to go
about it.
Planning can save a lot of
worry later, by provision for
safe disposal of run-off water
and by planting trees on the con-
tour. But it is the established
orchard which is the immediate
problem, and many of these,
particularly in coastal areas,
have been planted on the square
and provision for run-off has
been completely overlooked.
Where there is no provision for
run-off on orchards on steep
slopes one or two flood-rains a
year can cause serious erosion.
Where the soil-structure has been
weakened by continual working
to keep down weed-growth and
conserve moisture, susceptibility
to erosion is increased.
Every inch of water registered
in the rain-gauge represents the
equivalent of 22,600 gallons,
approximately 101 tons, of water
on each acre of land. Therefore,
when the average annual rainfall
is 40in., 4040 tons of water
falls on each acre per annum.
If the rainfall is persistent, as
well as heavy, the soil soon
reaches saturation-point. More
rain means run-off ; and run-off,
if this surplus water isn’t carried
away safely, can tear away your
valuable soil.
Under eroding conditions,
much of the available plant-food,
as well as the fine particles of
soil which contain plant-food
and humus, is swept away.
Coarse silt washed down to the
lower sections of the orchard not
only lacks plant-food, it lacks
the stability common to fertile
soil. The introduction of new
soil does little to arrest erosion.
It’s only a matter of time till it,
too, is washed away.
Huston recommends vegetative
cover—“ Nature’s buffer against
erosion.” Man-made grassed
waterways will serve the same
purpose as natural grassed
depressions, provided they are
made level in the cross-sections,
and wide enough to handle the
estimated flow of water.
The right positions for these
waterways are in, or adjoining,
the orchard. Where possible
they should be put right across
the contour —straight up and
straight down the main slope.
Directed by banks or furrows,
surplus water can then drain
into them on the lower grades.
Admitting that, in many cases,
it will be difficult to find areas
wide enough between the blocks
of trees on which to construct
the waterways, Huston suggests
that, taking the long-range view
of stability and productivity into
consideration, it may pay to
remove some of the trees and
thus provide the extra width
needed. For constructing these
grassed waterways, small farm-
type graders or grader-ditchers
are more suitable than horse-
power.
Once completed the waterway
should be sown with a mixture
of grasses suitable to the area.
Where the rainfall is fairly good,
and the right grasses are sown,
the waterway should be well
covered within four or five
months. Surplus water should
not be turned in on it until
then. .
Graded banks or plough-
furrows provide the best means
of diverting the water from each
block of trees to a near-by
waterway. If suitable banks are
constructed and all the working
is done across the slope, there is
little need for maintenance.
Plough-furrows are, however,
only a temporary way out. On
suitable grades they provide
ample drainage but require
remaking each time the land
is worked. Because of this, the
graded bank, which is permanent
and gives better water-control,
is usually the best method in the
long run.
However, on slight grades,
graded banks or furrows run at
regular intervals do a splendid
job in preventing surface-water
from accumulating and make for
greater absorption and more
even distribution of rainfall —all
factors which benefit the trees.
The extra moisture thus gained
more than offsets the amount of
water lost by the increased weed-
growth the result of working
the orchard one way, across the
slope. v
The maximum grade of the
bank should not exceed .05 per
cent., though where the slope is
short a steeper grade is allow-
able. Where the land is of the
folding type, or uneven in grade,
it is usually impossible to con-
struct banks at frequent intervals.
But, after carefully reviewing
the general lie of the land, it
may be found possible to take
the water to stable outlets by
means of larger banks at wider
intervals.
For the making of these banks
the farm tractor or small grader
can again be used.
In constructing the graded
bank, the channel on the top side
should be as broad as possible ;
although, of course, this breadth
is usually decided by the amount
of room between the trees.
While the V-shaped drain is con-
ducive to erosion, the flat-
bottomed channel reduces the
erosion hazard.
In orchards where the trees are
small, the soil should be
graded downhill to form a bank
on the top-side of each row of
trees, but not too close to them.
Where the trees are large, the soil
should be graded both up- and
downhill to provide a channel
that is of adequate size yet will
interfere little, if at all, with the
trees’ roots.
In planning this channel make
sure it is at least 1 cubic foot per
lineal foot of bank— according
to the distance between the
banks.
Where the bank is to be con-
structed between each row of
trees, it should be small; where
it is to serve two or three rows
of trees, it should be definitely
larger. Actually, the size of the
trees decides the capacity and
spacing of the banks.
Concerning the use of diver-
sion-banks, Huston points out
that they are valuable in dispos-
ing of the surplus run-off which
comes from the area adjoining
the orchard, or for water-disposal
within it.
The best situation for this type
of bank is between blocks of
trees. Where the bank does not
discharge into a grassed water-
way, then a grassy paddock or
bushland area makes a suitable
outlet. x"


AN ILLUSTRATED HISTORY
OF SCIENCE
F. SHERWOOD TAYLOR
Illustrated by A. R. Thomson, R.A.
This superbly produced book describes and illustrates the growth of
science from Ancient Egypt to the present day.
120 illustrations. At all booksellers - - - 31/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
LATEST GENERAL LITERATURE
Australia at Arms
edited far the Australian War Memorial by
Norman Bartlett
—an anthology of true stories of many
wars, told by the men who served. It
is a cavalcade of Australian military
history, from the Maori Wars in the
19th century, to World War 11. Illus-
trated. 25/- (post 1/1)
Islands of Men
by Colin Simpson
-vivid, factual stories of . the Mel-
anesian Islands, as colourfully written
as the author’s “Adam” series. Many
illustrations, including 8 pages of colour
plates.
25/- (post 9d.)
Write, phone or call in for our Christmas Catalogue. You’ll find a wonderful
selection of Gifts at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 66 68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
THE GREAT EPIC OF THE SEA
H.M.s. ULYSSES
A NOVEL BY ALISTAIR MACLEAN
PUBLISHED BY COLLINS. 15s. 6d.
Available from all Booksellers
an outstanding book of mountaineer-
ing, the bulk of it concerned with
adventures long before the conquest of
Everest.
There is Tenzing’s early manhood
in Darjeeling in the company of
Sherpas already veterans of the Hima-
layas, such as Angtharkay and Dawa
Thondup; his first exploits on Everest
with the fifth big British expedition in
1935, a reconnaissance which found
the dry, frozen carcass of the lone
climber Maurice Wilson, who had
apparently died while trying to take off
his boots; there is Everest again in
1936 with Eric Shipton and Frank
Smythe, when the wind blew them off
the North Col and when, on the return
journey across the uplands, a Sherpa
fell from a rope into a river and “the
last we saw of him was the bright
ribbon at the end of it [his braid of
hair] floating several hundred yards
down the river”; then surveying the
Nanda Devi, when Tenzing was so ill
that Major Osmaston had to carry him
on his back; then climbing on Bandar
Punch, the Monkey’s Tail, with two
British schoolteachers, getting food
from the villagers after they had sub-
sequently been lost in the jungle by
the simple device of touching every-
thing they wanted, whereupon it be-
came forbidden food to its rightful
owners.
Tenzing went to Everest for the third
time in 1938 with Tilman, Shipton,
Smythe and Odell, when six of the
party, including Tenzing, got caught in
an avalanche —“I am off my feet, turn-
ing over and over. My head is under
the snow and it is dark.” Then he
explored the deadly Kangchenjunga
with Major Reed of the Indian Army
and found the body of a Sherpa and
the tracks of an Abominable Snow-
man. Then he joined Mr. Earl Den-
man, of Canada and Africa, on what
must be the most colossal poaching
expedition in history—nothing less than
the attempted capture of Everest from
Tibet without permission. He climbed
on Kedernath in 1947 with a party of
Swiss mountaineers, and, after a fall
of a thousand feet had occurred and an
injured Sherpa had had to be left
alone in a tent for the night, the
rescuers next morning saw as grim
and bizarre a sight as has ever been
seen on the mountains:—
We opened the flap, and what we
expected to find I am not sure ; but
certainly it was not what we did
find. Wangdi Norbu was there all
right. And he was alive. But now,
besides his two injured legs, he had
a great bloody gash across his throat.
What had happened, he told us later,
was this. The previous day, when
the others had left him, he had been
so dazed from his fall that he had
not understood when they told him
they would be back in the morning.
All he knew was that he had been
left alone. To freeze. To die. And
in his pain and misery he had taken
out his knife and cut his own throat.
Two things had saved him. First,
that he was too weak to cut hard
and end it all at once ; second, as
he lay bleeding he thought of his
family and decided that for their
sake he must try to live. So for the
rest of the night he had lain still.
And next day, though weak and in
great pain, he was still alive.
And so to Everest with the Swiss in
1952 for his first attempt at the South
Col route from Nepal. Tenzing and
Lambert (for whom the Sherpa has an
affection very different from his usual
wariness with the more stand-offish
British) got to 28,250 ft. . . .
the nearest men had ever come to
the top of Everest, the highest any-
one had ever climbed in the world.
But it was still not enough. We
had given all we had, and it was not
enough. We turned without speak-
ing. We descended without speak-
ing. Down the long ridge, past the
high camp, along the ridge again,
along the snow-slope. Slowly—
slowly. Down —down—down ...
And so at last to the triumph with
Hillary —and to all that happened
after: the cable from Churchill, then
the other messages “like a flood”; the
Nepalese nationalists (“I honestly do
not know if they were Communists”)
who wanted him to say that he was
first on the summit —“They would not
stop. They drove me almost mad.
They put answers in my mouth and
made me sign papers that I could not
read”; the crowds shouting “Tenzing
zindabad!”; King Tribhuvana awarding
him the Star of Nepal; “politics, poli-
tics, suddenly they were making trouble
everywhere”—Colonel Hunt losing his
temper and saying that technically
Tenzing was not even a very good
climber, Tenzing in return making
“foolish statements”; his refusal to
attend the reception at the British
Embassy in Kathmandu because once
when he had asked for shelter there he
had been unceremoniously turned
away; crowds in Calcutta and Delhi;
the reception by Pandit Nehru; the
journey by plane to London and the
reception given by the Queen and the
Duke of Edinburgh; “certain difficul-
ties” in Switzerland because “I felt
that I was being treated like a novice”;
his new home in Darjeeling, his
daughters at the Loreto Convent, his
racehorse, his work for Pandit Nehru’s
Himalayan Mountaineering Institute,
the sightseers, the autograph-hunters,
the worshippers, the gossipers, the
journalists, the politicians . . .
These anecdotes, with some petty
complaints against Hillary’s account of
the climb, rebutting any suggestion that
he needed help from the New
Zealander, make an unfortunate but
nevertheless exceedingly interesting
conclusion to the book, changing it
from a mountaineering story into the
human drama of a simple man caught
in an avalanche of publicity and poli-
tics. It is rather as if, instead of climb-
ing Everest, Tenzing had it fall upon
him.
Reviewed Briefly
The Kangaroo Conquers: Pat Lands-
berg (Museum Press). The Australian
cricket-tour of the West Indies this
year, when Australia won the Tests
3-0, with two drawn. Landsberg is
considered one of the best-informed
writers on West Indies cricket, and his
book is a detailed, workmanlike
summary of the play. He is careless
in one or two names and scores —Bill
Johnston appears several times as Bill
Johnson, Richie Benaud also as
Ritchie, and when Australia made its
Test-record 8-758 it beat the 1930
score of 6-729 (not 6-723). And he is
hardly fair to Trinidad bowler Butler,
chosen in the second Test after he had
“swept aside the Australian tail” in the
colony-match—the “tail” being Harvey,
Favell, Watson, Archer and Lindwall.
But his final verdict on the Australian
side is close enough: “Competent and
ruthless, a team in every sense of the
word, but by no means great.”
# * * *
Mardios Beach: Oakley Hall (Max
Reinhardt). This second novel by the
author of “The Corpus of Joe Bailey”
is both more mature and less urgently
alive than its predecessor. The story
concerns Bill Gregory, a materially
successful and spiritually sterile used-
car magnate, explores a few days in the
lives of his wife and her friends, his
ex-mistress and her son and his girl—
and ends in tragedy. But the true
theme is not the downfall of a boor —
it is of the effect of the more free-and-
easy sexual manners of the ’twenties
and ’thirties on the children of the
bright young things of those times who
are now middle-aged parents. It would
appear that, garish news-items apart,
the younger generation in the U.S. are
often surprisingly moral, and their
priggish attitude disconcerts their
elders. “Mardios Beach” is by no
means the best recent novel dealing
with this problem, but it is a better-
than-average book and contains some
interesting characters.
* * * *
They Walk in Darkness: Helena
Frost (Faber). When Paul van Laer,
a thoroughly charming and completely
irresistible cad, deserted New York;
his wife, boy and girl; his mistress and
the son she wanted and he didn’t; and
his lifetime friend and business part-
ner; he left behind a tangle of unbroken
threads. In their various ways, some
eight years after his semi-disappear-
ance in Europe, they were all still tied
to his memory. Zelda, his wife, always
neurotic, now totters on the brink of
complete mental disintegration. His
children are haunted. His ex-mistress
refuses to marry Anthony, his lifetime
friend, because she fears that if Paul
should return she may succumb to his
physical charms. So Anthony whips
off to Capri to force the prodigal to
come back—not for a permanent and
obviously impossible reunion but to
break the spell for ever. All this could
be the baldest melodrama, but in the
hands of Helena Frost, who writes with
a most compelling individuality, it
makes a very convincing yam, adult
both in conception and commission.
"Southerly" Editor
The poet Kenneth Slessor has
accepted the editorship of “Southerly”
to replace Professor R. G. Howarth,
now in South Africa.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 358
Across
I—Furniture for displaying archi-
tect’s drawing may be set in the
ground. (9)
s—Seaman who brings daylight to
the box-office. (5)
9 —a dangerous place in which to
stand a row away from fury.
(4, 2,4)
11— Mrs. German in a fur. (4)
12 — For example, I—l equals I. (3)
14— Twin boys referring to one of the
pieces of a shell. (6)
15— Send Desmond to fool. (8)
17—Novels were written by this
gaunt jockey. (5, 7)
21 —It signifies enthusiastic satisfac-
tion with the hearty and virtuous
book of the Bible. (5,4, 3)
24 —Mulga-net holding the material
for barrels and such. (3, 5)
26 —Gossip with a mason rock. (6)
28 —Ivy bush backing this girl. (3)
30 — A queer lily type. (4)
31— Conducted a donkey on a string
with the pale south Helen and
Castor or Pollux. (5, 5)
32 — Formerly of Canberra or there-
abouts, to be precise. (5)
33 —Blue barred from employment on
newspapers and magazims. (9)
Down
1 — Washer after a parent friend is
to swear in conference. (7)
2 Girl with a hat and a family of
worms. (8)
3 A god with a girl. (5)
4 Yellowish brown. (4)
6 Fish for sixpences. (6)
7 Anything in New York is like the
’Nineties. (7)
8 — Margaret’s stumps. (4)
10 —Never upset plum but again take
on riddle with an egg scrambled.
(8)
13 —A musical work or a preposition
city of Portugal. (6)
16 —Mitigate the coffin cloth I
swallowed. (8)
18 — An Australian bounder had a
meal covered with tiles. (6)
19 — Redskins love shy methods. (8)
20— Tearing into a person who
doesn’t feel thankful. (7)
22 — Dressed for mixed doubles. (7)
23 Name up with this spirit. (6)
25 —Sound a bell charge for road
use. (4)
27 —An inch part of a church. (5)
29—Racket path up a slope. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 357


GRAHAM PLOW OWNERS
SCOO
POOL..
IN RECENT AGRICULTURAL COMPETITIONS
The Graham has proved itself
in every type of country!
Here is telling evidence that the Graham outmodes all other methods of cultivation
—that more and more farmers are proving beyond any doubt the Graham’s
multiple advantages in every type of country. In recently judged Agricultural
Competitions throughout Australia, Graham Plow owners scored winning
positions.
QUEENSLAND R.N.A.
RAIN-GROWN PASTURE
COMPETITION
FIRST: Graham Plow Owner
Mr. Lloyd Skerman, Kaimkillen-
bun, Queensland.
THIRD: Graham Plow Owner
Mr. W. J. Horrocks, Maclaggan,
via Oakey, Queensland.
SHEEP HUSBANDRY SECTION—
Farmer and Settler Newspaper
MERINO EWE
COMPETITION
FIRST: Graham Plow Owner
Mr. J. B. Sautelle, Mount Cooper,
Ando, N.S.W.
N.S.W. R.A.S., 1955
(Northern Inland Zone)
FODDER AND CROP
COMPETITION
FIRST: Graham Plow User
Yaralla Pastoral Co., Ulamambri,
N.S.W.
SECOND: Graham Plow Owner—
Mr. F. B. Dampney, Billabong,
Narrabri, N.S.W.
THE GRAHAM DOES A TREMENDOUS JOB!
When the 10 ft. Trailing Model is combined with
the use of the 7 ft. Mounted Model on any farm,
every other type of cultivating implement can be
completely disregarded.
The Graham builds a mulch into the soil. Doubles
the sub-soil moisture. Quickly builds soil fertility.
Shatters the hard pan. Conserves soil moisture.
Prevents erosion by water and wind. Gives a
perfect seed bed easier, quicker. Cultivates from
2 inches to more than 16 inches. Cultivates the
rough, rocky or stump country that no other
implement will stand. Carries an exceptional
guarantee.
Prove the Graham's superiority!
Contact the local Graham Plow agent in your
district. Arrange a demonstration of a Graham
Plow behind your own tractor —on your own land.
HAVE YOU A LAND PROBLEM
Whether your property is located in the dry
Western Areas or in the moist Coastal belt, we
can advise you how to specifically cultivate your
soil and produce better pastures and crops. Write
us immediately. Or, just fill in the Coupon opposite
and send to us for full facts of the GRAHAM
PLOW.
NAME.
ADDRESS..
f " ————•
(State make and model of your tractor).
GRAHAM FIOW
The original and genuine chisel plow is patented throughout the world
and manufactured in Australia under licence from the Graham-Hoeme Plow Co.,
Amarillo, Texas, U.S.A., by
YEOMANS PROPRIETARY
limited
537 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY - MX 1784, MX 1884
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
GRAHAM PLOW IMPROVES THE SOIL!
wsm
m
500 farmers inspect Mr. Lloyd Skerman's prize-winning Pasture
at Kaimkillenbun after his win.
■ ■ ■ •:■■ ■
f
' v ; '
Mr. W. J. Horrocks on Clover and Rhodes Grass at Maclaggan.
ms
m
m
...
Mr. J. B. Sautelle shows the lush and vigorous growth of his
Pasture at Mount Cooper.
•: •
? - CP
m
■
■:,V;
: : ?
s :>;
m
Mr. Geo. Nicholson (judge) inspecting winning crop at Ulamambri
with Yaralla's manager, Mr. H. B. Christie.
•, - -.v;v.
mm
i :**s
m. -
v
\s . :
m
IMBB,
This is the Graham "J" 10 ft. "Spring Clamp" Trailing Plow
similar to that used by Mr. F. B. Dampney on his prize-winning
property at Billabong, Narrabri.
